CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 ily SCOTT ADAMS Sports Ed:itor With less than a month of 'collegiate experience under his belt, ·freshman lacro:sse goalie Panl Garnett is ·this week's Athlete.ofthe Week. A gradute of Concord Carlisle High School in Concord, MA, .Paul arrived at Union to find himself in the tough position of replacing lohn Thome, Thome compiled an impressive 7.2 goats against . average and a 68.2 save percentage in four years as the starting Dutchman goalie. Midway through the season, Paul has responded brilliantly to the call. He has started in all but one ·of the Dutchmen's first seven gart;Ies, has 7 .S goals against average, and a 61.9 .sa.ve percentage. What's more, he helped the Dutchmen post victories over Middtebijl'y and St. Lawrence,. two te!llllS which have outclassed Union in the past. Against Middlebury he had 16 saves, and against St. Lawrence,. 11. With tough games against Williams and Hamilton coming up this week, Paul's expertise in net will again be tested. If he continues to display the instinct and quick reflexes he has up to this point; the Dutchmen may just find themselves with a national ranking by the end of this season; Congratulations, Paul, and keep of tlle good work! MeR's Track Hot In The Cold Hayes .l811ds the W•y By HANS SCI{W ARZ. l2.73m, respectively. dual meet yesterday at home against RPI. The large student attendance was very encouraging for the athletes. Results, however,. were not available at pres-s time. The Running Dutchmen will compete at Colgate this Saturday and return home again next W_gdnesday for the Uriion Open, where another strong .showing of student support for Union athletics is expected. SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor What is the parpose of · Division III athletics? It is · surely not to save money. So, / pri<>rities and goals that athletic ' departments and coaches set , should be based on their effect '· up<m the student-athletes. The typical Division III player participates on teams because . ~hey love the competition, comaraderie, and the sport its.elf. Coaches should understand · that h~ppy,. '· contented players who d<> not have conflicts with coaches or their teammates, or even with things that do not directly pertain to the sport are more likely to produce the kind of results that coac·hes demand· from players. At the Division IIJ level, it is not unusual for a student· athlete to play more than one sport, while in the higher Divisions jt is more of a rarity to find a two- or three-sport athlete. It is also common for a Page 19 SPORTS student-athlete to sit out a season to concentrate on academics. While competing ina sport may have been an important factor in deciding whether or not a student-athlete is accepted at or will attend a certain college, any financial assistance he or she receives does not hinge upon their participation in sports. This is why student-athletes in Div~s:ion III know that they can hang up their cleats. While they may be deeply devoted to their sport and competition, too often there comes a time when they decide that it is in their best interest to walk away from a sport. Unfortunately,. it is often because being. a member ofa team is no longer enjoyable, and even though they love the sport, they realize it is too much of a burden or an aggravation. Coaches should realize that they would not have a job if it weren't for their players. The Union men's track team traveled tQ Williams College for the Williams' Track InvitationaL Behind the powerful leadership of senior co-captain 'Steven Hayes, the Running . Dutchmen placed well, including a third place finish in the 4.00 meters in an impressive time of ·51.75 by Hayes and a third place finish by the 4x20Gm relay team of Steven Hayes. Tom Frisbie, Will Allen, and Dave Shepard Middle and long distance ninrters also r~orded numerous bests despite the near-freezing temperatures, icy rain, and strong winds. B<:>b Lindyberg ran a very irnpresssive 800m in a seasonal best ·of 2:02.8. In the 1500m, Bob Townsend, Greg Barrett, Dou,g Martocci, and Mike Em.mi all achieved seasonal bests. While Michael Martinez, in his first (but surely not last) attempt in the SOOOm ran a very tough 17;00.9, inchtdin.g a sensational kick in the last 300m. ·.Men's Lax Beats TWo Power Houses in 1:34.6. . . Personal and seasonal bests were the order of the day. Mike Sirowich led the field event squad with a personal best put of the shot out throwing his previous longest by over a full meter, with 12.19. Cliff.Jienge is the hammer throw and Art Broga in the triple : jump recorded personal records with a throw of 28 .4,8m and a jump of Although many athletes were suffering from illness,, this cUd not have a debilitating affect on their performances. Even compounded by the adverse weather cond.itions, the :Running Dutchmen were able to overcome the obstacles, and compete effectively against the strong field which they faced. The men's te'am also had a Walki,ng Tall In D.C. By THE TRACK TEAM nation's capital with optimism for the future. Don't miss out on any more excitement of the Union Outdoor Track Teatri! Cheer on your favorite Du.tchmen tracksters next Wednesday evening during the Union Open. Continued from page 20 . ' • I o 0. ' - • ~ < I.. ·• ' ~ ~ ,...- • .r' ' ; \' ~ • against both Middlebury and St. Lawrence. Last season • Keller. who began his career at midfield, paced Union's scoring . with 37 points on 29 goals. and eight assists. \I can't say enough about John,\ explained Priore. \He has improved tremendously from last year. Many of his 29 goals of a year ago came against weaker Opponents. This season not only is he scoring against the better teams, he is drawing their top defensemen. I'd have to say that John is one of the top players in the · country. He is averaging five paints a game and he's making our offense click.\ Priore is quick to point out, however, that Keller 'is not a one man. gang. Senior co- captain Dave DeBerardinis and sophomore Jason Albert have taken a great deal of pressure off Keller. DeBerardinis, who came into the year having ·, .... scored 23 goals and .six assists in three varsity letter winning seasons, had a goal and three assists against St. Lawrence and a goal and four assists versus Middlebury. He is. Union's second-leading scorer this season With 18 points on six goals and a dozen assists. Albert. who tallied four goals and six points last season, scored twice and added three assists in the win over the Panthers. \Keller DeBo (DeBerardinis) and Albert give us three solid attackmen who take the pressure off one another and' keep the defenses off balance,\ said Priore. Priore gives a great deal of credit to his goaltend.ing duo of freshman Paul Garnett and sophomore Brian Lucey. While Garnett has been outstanding as the starter (11 saves against St Lawrence and Hi against Middlebury), Lucey, who . This past Sunday, the IAAF '.World Cup· Trials for the 20 ·kilometer race walk were held in Washington, DC .. Despite the course being situated aroo.nd the Reflecting Pool and in between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument, the competitors were not there to enjoy the view. At stake were the five place on the U.S. National :ream to compete at the World Cup in Barcelona, Spain in :May. Being one of the ·'Youngest competitors to qualify for the Trials, Union junior Jim Campoli was hardly expected to challenge the leaders, espedally the three 1988 Olympians leading the way. Nevertheless, he turned !n a gutsy 1:49:38 to place in the top 50. Despite walking a strong opening lOK, · he soon felt the effects of the eight-hour drive the day be{ore. Although the time and place were disappointing, he left the St. Rose Ends Streak By F. X. MATTS This week, the bseball team's five-game winning · streak came to a screeching halt · as Saint Rose beat the Dutchmen, 14-3, on a .balmy April afternoon. As the Saint Rose pitching repeatedly froze Union hitters, one fan was · heard saying that he thought he only an inning and a third before giving way to Dave Haas. Haas was then forced to leave the game due to an elbow injury. Coach Reynolds then brought in rookie phenom . Mark Nadeau who was spanked for seven earned runs before recording the final out of the ·game. had become dyslexic after Although they ·lost the seeing all of the backwards, K's game, there were a few bright in the storebook. spots in the Union lineup. Pat Aaron Root started the game' . , Secchiaroli, Neil Walkoff, and for the Dutchmen, but lasted ; Mario DiLoreto each cracked two hits, and Dave Haas · pitched well in two and two- thirds innings of play. Possibly the most promising sign of the Dutchmen's home ; opener was an unu.sually large .;crowd, with the most ,noticeable group being the ever-present U,C. Club. 1he Dutchmen take on Nortb Adams in Central Park today at 3:00 p.m. and host a doubt eheader against Middlebury on Saturday, beginning at 1:00 p.m. missed his entire season Jast year with a shoulder injuzy, has provided skilled backup. \Either one of them could start and do a fine job,\ said Priore. \They push each other and that benefits them and the entire team.\ 0 th er peopi e who contributed to the victory over Middlebury were co-captain Nick Baratoff (1,0), Pete Colier (0,1). Blake Henderson (1,0), Mike Ucellini (2,0), Scott Daniels (1 ;0), and Pat Lawson (0,1). Rounding out the balanced scoring against St. Lawrence were Henderson (0,1), Cctier (1,1), and Alan Fleischer (2,0). With such balanced scoring combined with the strong defense of Garnett and defensemen Chris Johnson, Joe G<>ethe and Chris Ramsey, the team has already secured a strong foothold on a successful season. t ..•. ••

i \ I I 1 > J CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 19 By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor With less than a month of collegiate experience under his belt, freshman lacrosse goalie Paul Garnett is this week's Athlete of the Week. A gradute of Concord Carlisle Hig·h School in Concord, MA, -Paul ani.ved at Union to find himself in the tough position of replacing John Thome. Thome compiled an impressive 7.2 goals against average and a 68.2 save percentage in four years as the starting Dutchman goalie. Midway through the season, Paul has responded briUiantly to the call. He has started in all but one of the Dutchmen's frrst seven games, has 7.5 g(:)als against average, and a 61.9 save percentage. What's more, he helped the Dutchmen post victories over Middlebury and St. Lawrence, two teams which have outclassed Union in the past. Against Middlebury he had 16 saves, and against St. Lawrence, 11. With tough games against Williams and Hamilton coming up this week, Paul's expertise in net wiill again be tested. If he continues to display the instinct and quick reflexes he has up to this point, the Dutchmen may just find themselves with a national ranking by the end. of this season. Congratuiations, Paul, and keep of the good work! Men's Track Hot l:n T:he Cold~ Htlyes leads the Way By HANS SCHWARZ The Union men's track team traveled to Williams College for the Williams' Track Invitational. Behind the powerful leadership of senior co-captain Steven Hayes, the Running Dutchmen placed well, including a thi:Fd :place finish in the 400 meters in an impressive time of 51.75 by Hayes and a third place finish by the 4x200m relay team of Steven Hayes, Tom Frisbie, Will Allen, and Dave Shepard in 1:34.6. Personal and seasonal bests were the order of the day. Mike Sirowich led the field event squad with a personal best put of the shot out throwing his previous longest by over a full meter with 12.19. Cliff Genge is the hammer throw and Art Broga in the triple jump recorded personal records with a throw of 28.48m and ajurnp of 12.73m, respectively. Middle and long distance runners also recorded numerous bests despite the near-freezing temperatures, icy rain, and strong winds. Bob Lindyberg ran a very impresssive 800m in a seasonal best of 2:02.8. In the 1500m, Bob Townsend, Greg Barrett, Doug Martocci, and Mike Emmi all achieved seasonal bests. While Michael Martinez, in his first (but surely not last) attempt in the 5000m ran a very tough 17:00.9, including a sensati<>nal kick in the last 300m. Although many athletes were suffering from illness, this did not have a debilitating affect on their performances. Even compotmded by the adverse weather conditions, the Running Dutchmen were able to overcome the obstacles, and compete effectively against the strong field which they faced. The men's team also had a Walking Tall In D.C. By THE TRACK TEAM nation's capital with optimism for the future. Don't miss out on any more excitement of the Union Outdoor Track Team! Cheer on your favorite Dutchmen tracksters next Wednesday evening during the Union Open. dual meet yesterday at home against RPI. The large student attendance was very encouraging for the athletes. Results, however, were not available at press time. The Running Dutchmen will compete at Colgate this Saturday and return home again next Wednesday for the Union Open, where another strong showing of student support for Union athletics is expected. Men's Lax Continued from page 20 against both Middlebury and St. Lawrence. Last season Keller, who began his career at midfield, paced Union's scoring with 37 points on 29 goals and eight assists. \I can't say enough about John,\ explained Priore. \He has improved tremendously from last year. Many of his 29 goals of a year ago came against weaker opponents. This season not only is he scoring against the better teams, he is drawing their top defensemen. I'd have to say that John is one of the top players in the country. He is averaging five points a game and he's making our offense click.\ Priore is quick to point out, however, that Keller is not a , one man gang. Senior co- captain Dave DeBerardinis and sophomore Jason Albert have taken a great deal of pressure off Keller. DeBerardinis, who came into the year having C!Litncrtrb iens is SPORTS SP·ORTS ACCORDIN'G TO GO'ETZ By GREG GOETZ Sparts Editor What is the purpose of Division III athletics? It is surely not to save money. So, , / priorities and goals that athletic departments and coaches set should be based on their effect upon the student-athletes. The typical Division III player participates on teams because they love the competition, comaraderie, and the sport itself. Coaches should understand that happy, contented players who do not have conflicts with coaches or their teammates, or even with things that do not directly pertain to the sport are more likely to produce the kind of results that coaches demand from players. At the Division III level, it is not unusual for a student- athlete to play more than one sport, while in the higher Divisions it is more of a rarity to find a two- or three-sport athlete. It is also common for a student-athlete to sit out a season to concentrate on academics. WhHe competing ina sport may have been an important factor in deciding whether or not a student-athlete is accepted at or will attend a certain .coHege, any financial assistance he or she receives does not hinge upon their participation in sports. This is why student-athletes in Division III know that they can hang up their cleats. While they may be deeply devoted to their sport and competition, too often there comes a time when they decide that it is in their best interest to walk away from a sport. Unfortunately, it is often because being a member of a team is no longer enjoyable, and even though they love the sport, they realize it is too much of a burden or an aggravation. Coaches should realize that they would not have a job if it weren't for their players. Beats Two Power Houses scored 23 goals and six assists in three varsity letter winning seasons, had a goal and three assists against St. Lawrence and a goal and four assists versus Middlebury. He is Union's second-leading scorer this season with 18 points on six goals and a dozen assists. Albert, who tallied four goals and six points last season, scored twice and added three assists in the win over the Panthers. \Keller DeBo (DeBerardinis) and Albert give us three solid attackmen who take the pressure off one another and keep the defenses off balance,\ said Priore. Priore gives a great deal of credit to his goaltending duo of freshman Paul Garnett and sophomore Brian Lucey. While Garnett has been outstanding as the starter (I 1 saves against St. Lawrence and 16 against Middlebury), Lucey. who missed his entire season last year with a shoulder injury, has provided skilled backup. \Either one of them could start and do a fine job,\ said Priore. \They push each other and that benefits them and the entire team.\ Other people who contributed to the victory over Middlebury were co-captain Nick Baratoff (1,0), Pete Colier (0,1), Blake Henderson ( 1 ,0), Mike Uccllini (2,0), Scott Daniels (1,0), and Pat Lawson (0,1). Rounding out the balanced scoring against St. Lawrence were Henderson (0,1), Cotier (1,1), and Alan Fleischer (2,0). With such balanced scoring combined with the strong defense of Garnett and defensemen Chris Johnson, Joe Goethe and Chris Ramsey, the team has already secured a strong foothold on a successful season. This past Sunday, the IAAF World Cup Trials for the 20 kilometer race walk were held in Washington, DC. Despite the course being situated around the Reflecting Pool and in between the Lincoln Memorial and the Washington Monument, the competitors were not there to enjoy the view. At stake were tbe five place on the U.S. National Team to compete at the World Cup in Barcelona, Spain in May. Being one of the youngest competitors to qualify for the Trials, Union junior Jim Campoli was hardly expected to challenge the leaders, especially the three 1988 Olympians leading the way. Nevertheless, he turned in a gutsy 1:49:38 to place in the top 50. Despite walking a strong opening 10K, he soon felt the effects of the eight-hour drive the day be(ore. Although the time and place were disappointing. he left the St. Rose Ends Streak By F. X. MATTS This week, the bseball team's five-game winning streak carne to a screeching halt as Saint Rose beat the Dutchmen, 14-3, on a balmy April afternoon. As the Saint Rose pitching repeatedly froze Union hitters, one fan was heard saying that he thought he had become dyslexic after seeing al:l of the backwards K's in the scorebook. Aaron Root started the game for the Dutchmen, but lasted only an inning and a third before giving way to Dave Haas. Haas was then forced to leave the game due to an elbow injury. Coach Reynolds then brought in rookie phenom Mark Nadeau who was spanked for seven earned runs before recording the final out of the game. Although they lost the game, there were a few bright spots in the Union lineup. Pat . Secchiaroli, Neil Walkoff, and . Mario DiLoreto each cracked two hits. and Dave Haas pitched well in two and two- thirds innings of play. Possibly the most promising sign of the Dutchmen's home . opener was an unusually large .crowd, with the most , noticeable group being the ever-present U .C. Club. The Dutchmen take on North Adams in Central Park today at 3:00 p.m. and host a doubleheader against Middlebury on Saturday, beginning at 1:00 p.m. UNION SPORTS

. . ,1'- ~ Tony Amarante takes a cut· In Tuesday's game against. s.t. Rose. Th.e Dutchmen lost, 14·3. FIQna Shukrl defends ag:alost Mlddl~bury. The Women's, lax team went 1·2 last week. . . - - . . April 20, 1989 Men's Lax Improves To 5-2 Up And Down Week Defeats Middlebury, St. Lawrence · .. F·o:.r· W· .. · .. _··-a·. •m- _···e--n·. 's·.· L-.a.· x·. By SPORTS win,\ said second year head opportunity to receive their ·. INFORMATION DEPT. coach Chuck Priore. \The first national ranking in quite and BlLL MAFFIE difference this year is that we some time. felt that we were a better team \1 feel we've got a good shot It had been 13 games since the men's lacrosse team at Union College had defeated either Middlebury OR St. Lawrence. Last week the Dutchmen ended that frustration by be.ating BOTH-- in consecutive games. On Wednesday, April 12, Union traveled to Middlebury and posted a 12-9 decision. Saturday, April 15, the homestanding Dutchmen toppled the once-beaten Saints, 8-5, and improved their record to 5-2. \In the three years I've been here I've felt we always went into games against teams like Middlebury and St. Lawrence feeling not good enough to than both teams (Middlebury to be ranked among the best,\ and St. Lawrence}. Tile kids Priore continued. \We've feel pretty good about beaten two teams who have themselves and about the way national reputations back-to- they are playing. It wasn't a back. But, ranked or not, we shock to win. We feel are in the middle of the meat of confident in ourselves because our schedule. We've still got we walked off knowing we Williams and Hamilton outplayed them. coming up and those are two \The wins are especially impressive when you consider that they come on the beels of the loss to Siena. Tim kids could have quit after that game, but they didn't. They regrouped and came back strong and they deserve a lot of credit for that.\ The victories improved Union's record to 5-2 and gave the Dutchmen an outstanding pretty good teams.\ · The Dutchmen opened the season with a 14·8 victory over the University of Rochester before dropping a cliffhanger to nationally ranked RIT; 9-8. Union posted victories over Geneseo (10-7) and Skidmore (15-1) before being upset by Siena, 10-4. The wins over Midd:Jebury and St. Lawrence are milestones for the Dutchmen. Violence In The Locker Room Union and Middlebury first met on the lacrosse field in 1948 with the Gamet taking a 5-0 decision. Union went on t0 win the first nine meetings against the Pa:ntbers through 1974. However, starting with 1975, the trend reversed as Middlebury won 13 in a row through 1988. Not only did they beat the Dutchmen, they crushed the Dutchmen with scores like 24-7 in 1980, 20-3 in '81, 14-4 in '85, and 15·3 in'87. Once more, the Dutchmen had not won in Vennont in their last nine trips there. The last Union victory at Middlebury came on May 10, Continued from page 1 Other team members have commented that Coach Robert deals unfairly with Sanchez in comparison to other· players. Sanchez cited incidents in which the coach would \punish'\ or \pick on\ her in front of the learn, requesting that she \drop and do ten.\ In her eyes, Sanchez felt Robert was being \ridiculous and unfair.\ Many times it seemed as though Robert would \take the things [Sanchez] did personally,\ tlms adding to the animosity between them. Another athlete who has played for Robert commented that Robert has often \taken the players' actions too personally and that has created a lot of tension during the season/' Another member of the softball team added that, \as a perspective, students love to come and play; but once you get here it's different.\ It also seems to be a common feeling between athletes that this was the culmination of anger and Sanchez was merely the victim of it. Sanchez, as well as many other· team members, would like to see drastic action taken. And, when asked if suspension or dismissal from the staff were plausible actions, Sakata commented that they ••can't rule out any options.\ As it stands, Robert continues to coach softball and Sanchez has chosen not to participate in the sport any longer. \1 will never· play softball for her again. As long as [Robert] is coacl.ling this sport I will never play at Union\ stated Sanchez. After the incident, the team had another meeting before their Saturday afternoon trip to Rochester. In this meeting, Robert raised the issue of the future of the team. It has also been reported that she has enrolled in a stress management program. Robert has an excellent record at union\for coaching. She is, according Sakala, \a premiere coach.i' Nothing similar to this incident has supposedly ever occurred in her history at this Colleg.e: Sakala has received oilly one complaint about Robert since her employment here. Charlyn Robert would not conunent on this incident. 1967when it won 9-5. The history is much the same against the Saints. Union won the rtrst meeting, 12-3, i:n 1925 and went on to capture the first 10 victories through 1968. However, from 1969 through 19St St. Lawrence posted a 16-2 record including the last 13 in a row. The lone Dutchmen wins came in 1970 (9-5) and 1974 (10-5). Last year the Saints took an 11~1 decision. Junior attackman John Kel1er, who is playing just his second fuH season. leads the Dutchmer' with 24 goals, 11 assists, and 35 points. He netted four goals and an assist Continued on page 19 By C.R. FRIEDRICH, JR. This past week saw the Lady Dutchmen go 1-2, lowering their overall- record to 3-4. Last Wednesday the team traveled to Loudonville to play Siena, hoping to gain a little revenge for the men's l()ss there. They got plenty -<Jf revenge in routing the Saints:, 19-8. l]nion outshot Siena 4-2.- 20 and controleld the game througliont. Courtney L)'l1ch , led the team offensively with five goals., and Megan Kennedy and Marylleth Bohl added4 a:nd 3, respectively. Anna All~n played a strong game, adding two mote goals to the effQrt. Corning off this big win, Union next took on William Smitll, the number two team in the country. Union was weak on groundballs, their biggest problem all year, a::nd William Smith exploited this: defic.iency continually, enrou:te to an lS-4 win. The Lady Dutchmen were: outsh<'lt 42-1()~ and perhaps felt a little of tile pain they inflicted on Siena earlier in the week. Lynch led the team with two goals. This past Tuesday Union hosted Middlebl!fy on Frank Bailey Feild. In a tight match, they were defeated 10-7. The first half ended in a 4-4 deadlock, but late jn the second bald, Union ran out of steam. Middlebury jumped out to an 8-6 lead, and coasted to the final whistle. Sheila ·conway played a tremendous game in goal (13 .saves) and Melissa Blake was a standout on defense, but it was not enough. Allen and Kennedy led the teaiil offensively, both scoring three times. The women's j.v. team went 1-1 for the week, defeating Siena (13-4) and losing to William Sinith (15-1). In the Siena game~ Amanda Clothier was a force with fol1f goals. On Saturday the Lady Dutchmen will host Hamilton College at 3:00, following the men's game. The j.v. game will follow at 4:30. All three teams · will need plenty· of support as they take on rival teams.

~ <( ::J ...1 § en 0: ::r:: (.) Eo. a· b :r. Cl. Tony Amarante takes a cut In Tuesday's game against St. Rose. The Dutchmen lost, 14·:3. Fiona Shukrl defends against Middlebury. The Women's, lax team went 1·2 last week. April 20, 1989 Men's lax Improves To 5-2 , Up And Down Week !ly s~=~~ats ~;!~~~de!~~~:ar~c~: L!:~u~~c: receive their For Women's Lax INFORMATION DEPT. coach Chuck Priore. \The first national ranking in quite and BILL MAFFIE difference this year is that we some time. felt that we were a better team \I feel we've got a good shot It had been 13 games since the men's lacrosse team at Union College had defeated either Middlebury OR St. Lawrence. Last week the Dutchmen ended that frustration by heating BOTH-- in consecutive games. On Wednesday, April 12, Union traveled to Middlebury and posted a 12-9 decision. Saturday, April 15, the homcstanding Dutchmen toppled the once-beaten Saints, X-5, and improved their record to 5-2. \In the three years I've been here I've felt we always went into games against teams like Middlebury and St. Lawrence feeling not good enough to than both teams (Middlebury to be ranked among the best,\ and St. Lawrence). The kids Priore continued. \We've feel pretty good about beaten two teams who have themselves and about the way national reputations back-to- they are playing. It wasn't a back. But, ranked or not, we shock to win. We feel arc in the middle of the meat of confident in ourselves because our schedule. We've still got we walked off knowing we Williams and Hamilton outplayed them. coming up and those are two \Th~ wins are especially impressive when you consider that they come on the heels of the loss to Siena. The kids could have quit after that game, but they didn't. They regrouped and came back strong and they deserve 2 lot of credit for that.\ The victories improved Union's record to 5-2 and gave the Dlltchmen an outstanding pretty good teams.\ The Dutchmen opened the season with a 14-8 victory over the University of Rochester before dropping a cliffhanger to nationally ranked RIT, 9-8. Union posted victories over Geneseo (10-7) and Skidmore (15-1) before being upset by Siena, 10-4. The wins over Middlebury and St. Lawrence are milestones for the Dutchmen. Violence In The Locker Room Union and Middlebury first met on the lacrosse field in 1948 with the Garnet taking a 5-0 decision. Union went on to win the first nine meetings against the Panthers through 1974. However, starting with 1975, the trend reversed as Middlebury won 13 in a row through 1988. Not only did they beat the Dutchmen, they crushed the Dutchmen with scores like 24-7 in 1980, 20-3 in '81, 14-4 in '85, and 15-3 in'87. Once more, the Dutchmen had not won in Vermont in their last nine trips there. The last Union victory at Middlebury came on May 10, Continued from page 1 Other team members have commented that Coach Robert deals unfairly with Sanchez in comparison to other players. Sane hez cited incidents in which the coach would \punish\' or \pick on\ her in front of the team, requesting that she \drop and do ten.\ In her eyes, Sanchez felt Robert was being \ridiculous and unfair.\ Many times it seemed as though Robert would \take the things [Sanchez] did personally,\ thus adding to the animosity between them. Another athlete who has played for Robert commented that Robert has often \taken the players' actions too personally and that has created a lot of tension during the sea~on.\ Another member of t11c softball team added that, \as a perspective, students love to come and play; but once you get here it's different.\ It also seems to be a common feeling between athletes that this was the culmination of anger and Sanchez was merely the victim tJf it. Sanchez, as well as many other team members, would like to see drastic action taken. And, when asked if suspension or dismissal from the staff were plausible actions, Sakata commented that they \can't rule out any options.\ As it stands, Robert continues to coach softllall and Sanchez has chose11 not to participate in the sport any longer. \I will never· play S()ftball for her again. As long as [Robert] is coaching this sport I will never play at Union\ stated Sanchez. After the incident, the team had another meeting before their Saturday afternoon trip to Rochester. In this meeting, Robert raised the issue of the futme of the team. It has also been reported that she has enrolled in a stress manajSement program. Robert has an excellent record at union'for coaching. She is, according Sakala, \a premiere coach.\ Nothing similu to this incident has suppos.edly ever occurred in her history at this College. Sakala has received only one complaint about Robert since her employment here. Cluilyn Robert wo11ld not comment on this incident. 1967 when it won 9-5. The history is much the same against the Saints. Union won the first meeting, 12-3, in 1 925 and went on to capture the first 10 victories through 1968. However, from 1969 through 1988, St. Lawrence posted a 16-2 record including the last 13 in a row. The lone Dutchmen wins came in 1970 (9-5) and 1974 (10-5). Last year the Saints took an 11-1 decision. Junior attackman John Keller, who is playing just his second full season, leads the Dutchmen with 24 goals, 11 assists, and 35 points. He netted four goals and an assist Continued on page 19 By C.R. FRIEDRICH, JR. This past week saw the Lady Dutchmen go 1-2, lowering their overall record to 3-4. Last Wednesday the team traveled to Loudonville to play Siena, hoping to gain a little revenge for the men's loss there. They got plenty of revenge in routing the Saints, 19-8. Union outshot Siena 42- 20 and controleld the game throughout. Courtney Lynch led the team offensively with five goals, and Megan Kennedy and MaryBeth Bohl added4 and 3, respectively. Anna Allen played a strong game, adding two more goals to the effort. Coming off this big win, Union next took on William Smith, the number two team in the country. Union was weak on groundballs, their biggest problem all year, and William Smith exploited this deficiency continually, enroute to an 18-4 win. The Lady Dutchmen were outshot 42-10, and perhaps felt a little of the pain they inflicted on Siena earlier in the week. Lynch led the team with two goals. This past Tuesday Union hosted Middlebury on Frank Bai!'ey Feild. In a tight match, they were defeated 10-7. The first half ended in a 4-4 deadlock, but late in the second hald, Union ran out of steam. Middlebury jumped out to an 8-6 lead, and coasted to the final whistle. Sheila Conway played a tremendous game in goal (13 saves) and Melissa Blake was a standout on defense, but it was not enough. Allen and Kennedy led the team offensively, both scoring three times. The women's j.v. team went 1-1 for the week, defeating Siena (13-4) and losing to William Smith (15-1). In the Siena game. Amanda Clothier was a force with four goals. On Saturday the Lady Dutchmen will host Hamilton College at 3:00, following the men's game. The j.v. game will follow at 4:30. All three teams will need plenty of support as they take on rival teams. ''AID~tiY1''t>·<••·'\' ·· M~·s~&,W.ometJ1$\Tta~k . mh\'' .. , \· ~-!Sl'Jt~·illl\IY,,,;., '·· · :~ .: -:-··: · ···· · · .·y$UfjQAY,,.~p~t,\~3r Golf . .. Mfln's S.as.ePall Men's T~mnis @· .. ···•· ,f;19)fDAV'~ @I ·. \1$, ·vs~ · · Co~~te · . TI:J~SDAY, APRIL 25 MM's ~ebarl Wi. !1\IDa!nf ~ · M&n's tacrn~se vs. RPt''' Women's•sofl.ban ,, · vs; FtPI , Worrren-at:acrosse: , ., ·O~nta, \' , .. dMWomenls4.,:aoros~· ··· ... .,.. ............ \\' ...... . . . ' ~

~ . ~ . . •\ ·~.0\)l'ltitD IN !?'.9 3 •• Vol. C:XV1II, No .. 28 Schenectady, L April 27, 1~~9 . C·oa:cb~ Robert j -· . . . -. . --· S-uspen.ded Following Tbor·ou·g.b. ·.·.Investigation lly ELISE F.OODY News l«titor ' · · been .reported that RQbett has. already enrolled jn such. Student Forum Gains First :Quorum Of Tenn. Honor Code Question Yields Debate . c~urses. Despite the oiiginal Wi$hes In ~ferenee to the decision, of varfuus·me~l]~rs .. of Union's Underweod .declared that \there . · By JAY FREELAND News Editor By SUSAN D. SHAFFER Editor-in-C.hlef soft~all team, Cltailyn :Ropert ·. :was no easy way ou~ whatever will retunl as C(}acb for ·ne~t . ~decision .I made, there· would be . The Honor Code Proposal have implemented Ho11or . Codes that have been : successfnl in reducing tile : amount of cheating. year's season. dissatisfiedpeople.\ . For the first time in four was brought up for discussion Robert h~s 'been a~cused of . Theresa Sanche-Z commented weeks, the Union Colleg~ • by the Student Forum Tuesday 'striking . sopllD-more tb:it.d - that. she thought the decision St!ldent Forum bad. a quorum . · evening before interested . baseman Theresa Sanchez. in '\was a fait~ one,\ but she last Thursday and was able to students, faculty and Professor Bradley LeV/is : p,resented the benefits that the 1 Honor Code could have for the face two we:eb ago after a hastened to add that \I hope . · vote on several topics. The Administration. According to heated loek:er room Coach Robert is receiVing the meeting was o.pened by Student Forum the proposal confrontation. . Eight type of counseling that President Pete Costa at 8:05 · . was formed out of an interest James UndeN'bod, Dean of iYill help her relate to her own PM in the· College Center by the students. The Student Faculty,· decided Monday -· :players so that this incident . Atrium. Forum wants to see it take afternoon that .c:oach Robert will never happen to anyone After the reading and, passing effect only if the student body would be \relieved of all duties ~gain..\ She also hoped that of the minutes from the eagerlY embraces the system. related to the softball program counseling would prevent previous week, the floor was An aU campus vote concerning for the remaind:er of spring R.obert from allowing a . taken by Evan Grace who student opinion will take place term.\ This actioD has ah:eady \'buildup of emotion that could . ptesented several proposals to on Friday, April 28th in the been taken ~nd Athletic affect her coaching ability the Forum which required a College Center. Director Richard Sakala has again.'' vote. The first was a request by Several questions were raised been appointed to :teplace Ms. Sanchez~ who quit the team . the National Society of Black • . in an effort to clarify the Robert for the remainder of the aftet the ~incident ocqurre.d, Engineers for a campus proposed Honor Code and its season. petitioned Sakala and het awareness banquet. An amount : implications. Dean Underwood arrived at :fellow teammates. Tuesday of $200 was presented and The Honor Code would take this decision after receiving :afternoon to be reinstated as passed. · approximately four years to investigative reports from tb.frd,.baseman. She was granted · The next was a request for implement. It would be Sakala and Dea11 Mammola. app,roval, but must now $380 by Amnesty International presented to the freshmen class Each member ()f the softball compete to regain her starting which was denied unanimously during orientation and then team was interviewed regarding J)Osition. by the Forum when it was stressed for the following the situation, a11d Mammola Underwood bas,ed his bmught up that Amnesty years, Professor Sorum and Sakata then reported their _: decision concerning Robert \on International's clurter had emphasized that what students findings to Underwood. the premise that using physical expired and were thus no longer confront upon arrival to college Iil . addition to Robert's force against a student violates recognized by the Student is what they think has always suspension~ a written ·,not only normal standards of Forum. been, an example of this being reprimand willl::le issued to the conduct, bu.t a higher standard 'The final two proposals geltime. coach and the reprimand wilL that should prevail at a college, presented were for Fitzhugh A clarification of the purpose become part of her personneL a standard which places a Ludlow day and a plan for of Union College, as well as file. Lastly, Underwood has special value on the use of eliminating a $21,000 debt its academic atmosphere, was requested that Sa:kala \work reason and sensitivity in incurred by the Forum last made. one of the questions with coach Robert in · · rel~tions among members of an year. An amount of $7,972.28 raised was whether Union addtessing cuttent problems ' educational community.\ was passed for Fitzhugh and fosters a sense of trust, which inherent ~ in l!er approach · He .also stated that he was after some deliberation, a plan the Honor Code would act relating to playe:is.'' Underwood disappointed with Robert's to cut the Forum's debt by upon, or whether Union lacks a a1so said that it will be up to behavior because coaches $7,000 .per year over the next sense of trust, which perhaps Sakata to detel:Jiline if Robert ••should be examples to their three years was accepted. an Honor Code could create. should enroll in stress- })layers and act as the Sophomore Dan Waible then John Meier made the point management cot~rses. It bas })rofessionals that they are.\ contl.nued on page 3 that colleges similar to Union · professors. Not only would it · reduce the time that the faculty spends being a police force, it : would also allow them to prepare more beneficial assignments where fac11lty would not have to worry if a similar assignment was 011 a Tlte relationship betweell the implementation of an : Honor Code and its effect 011 cheating was . questioned by Dean · Mammola ••• who felt that it sets up false standards. past test that could be copied. More effective take home tests could be given and se If scheduling of exams W()uld also be a benefit. The relationship between the implementation of an Honor Code and its affect on cheating was questioned by Deiln Mammola. Dean Mamm<Jia also felt that the Honor Code sets up false standards; these expectations are ones that the real world fails to meet. Two students voiced tile opinion that it was not their responsibility to police their peers, yet with the implementation of tllis proposal everyone would .be signing a contract that states a Continued on page 3 -IFC Seeks Change Under New President :By. MAkCI SILVERMAN Members of the various Union College fraternities :elected the 1989-1990 ln.erfratemity officers on Tuesday, April18. Leading the executives, Arthur Hudson of the Delta Upsilon fraternity will serve as President, while :Brad Close of Sigma Chi will assume the position of Vice- President. Ray Holtz will fill the office of Treasurer and Chi :Psi's Eric Miller will serve as S~ctetary to the council. The Interfraternity Council (IFC) is the governing body of .all Union•s fraternities and its primary objectives lies in the enhancement .of Greek life by means of improvement and advancement.. Striving to 1 regain its place of prominence among school organizations remains a chief goal of the IFC. In order to both improve and highlight the Greek image to the student body, faculty, and administration, the IFC has organized several service projects to both college and community, fundraising, and has taken an active role in the restructuring of social policies and. fraternity-college relations. As President of the IFC, Hud&on will run the bi-weekly council meetings and present the meeting's agenda; .as well as .serve as the chief representative of the Student Forum. Another aspect of the president's job involves working closely with Dean Frederick Alford. in organizing school events and workshops. Hudson will continue t() strive for a more influential role and stronger voice for the IFC in .student and administrative affairs. He believes the I'FC should have a greater influence in the decisions involving student disciplinary cases rather than ; relying solely on the decisions of the administration, Hudson hopes to highten the importance of the IFC as one of the school's prominent organizations. Furthermore, he hopes \to establish scholarship · recognition through the issuing of awards and a<;knowledgetnent in ·the school's media sources.\ · Newly-elected IFC president Arthur Hudson. .'I : I : ) . ; . I i I .I

Vol. CXVIII, No. 20 Coaclt Robert Suspended Following Thorough Investigation By ELISE FOODY News Editor Despite the original wishes of various members of Union's softball team, Charlyn Robert will return as coach for next year's season. Robert has been accused of striking sophomore third baseman Theresa Sanchez in the face two weeks ago after a heated locker room confrontation. James Underwood, Dean of Faculty, decided Monday afternoon that coach Robert would be \relieved of all duties related to the softball program for the remainder of spring term.\ This action has already been taken and Athletic Director Richard Sakala has been appointed to replace Ms. Robert for the remainder of the season. Dean Underwood arrived at this decision after receiving investigative reports from Sakata and Dean Mammola. Each member of the softball team was interviewed regarding the situation, and Mammola and Sakala then reported their findings to Underwood. In addition to Robert's suspension, a written reprimand will be issued to the coach and the reprimand will become part of her personnel file. Lastly, Underwood has requested that Sakala \work with coach Robert in addressing current problems inherent in her approach relating to players.\ Underwood also said that it wilt be up to Sakala to determine if Robert should enroll in stress- management courses. It has been reported that Robert has · · already enrolled in such courses. In reference to the decision, Underwood declared that \there was no easy way out, whatever decision I rnade, there would be dissatis:fie!l.people.\ Theresa Sanchez commented that. she thought the decision \was a fair one,\ but she hastened to add that \I hope Coach Rol:!ert is receiving the right type of counseling that will help her relate to her own players so that this incident will never happen to anyone again.\ Slie also hoped that counseliag would prevent Robert from allowing a \buildup ()f emotion that could affect her coaching ability again;\ Sanchez, who quit the team after the incident occurred, petitioned Sakala and her fellow teammates Tuesday afternoon to be reinstated as third-baseman. She was granted approval, but must now compete to regain her starting position. Underwood based his decision concerning Robert \on the premise that using physical force against a student violates not only normal standards of conduct, but a higher standard that should prevail at a college, a standard which places a special value on the use of reason and sensitivity in relations a.mong members of an educational community.\ He als() stated that he was disappointed with Robert's behavior because coaches \shollld lle examples to their players and act as the professioruls that they are.\ . ·ollege 1877 Schenectady, New York April 27, 1989 Student Forum Gains First Quorum Of Term By JAY FREELAND News Editor For the first time in fo11r weeks, the Union College Student Forum had a qllortJrn last Thursday and was able to vote on several topics. Tile meeting was opened by President Pete Costa at 8:()5 PM in the College Ceater Atrium. After the reading and pass i11g of the minutes from tile previous week, the floor was taken by Evan Grace wlto presented several proposals to the Forum which required a vote. The first was a request by the National Society of Black Engineers for a camp11s awareness banquet. An runount · of $200 was presente<i and passed. The next was a request for $380 by Amnesty International which was denied unanirnotisly by the Forum when it was brought up that Amnesty International's charter 'Ita<! expired and were thus no longer recognized by the Stu dent Forum. 'The final two proposals presented were for Fitzl1t1gh Ludlow day and a pla11 for eliminating a $21,000 debt incurred by the Forum last year. An amount of $7;972.28 was passed for Fitzhugh and after some deliberation, a plan to cut the Forum's debt by $7,000 per year over the next three years was accepted. Sophomore Dan W aible then Continued on paiJe 3 Honor Code Question Yields Debate By SUSAN D. SHAFFER Editor-in-Chief The Honor Code Proposal was brought up for discussion by the Student Forum Tuesday evening before interested students, faculty and Administration. According to Student Forum the proposal was formed out of an interest by the students. The Student Forum wants to see it take effect only if the student body eagerly embraces the system. An all campus vote concerning student opinion will take place on Friday, April 28th in the College Center. Several questions were raised in an effort to clarify the proposed Honor Code and its implications. The Honor Code would take approximately four years to implement. It would be presented to the freshmen class during orientation and then stressed for the following years. Professor Sorum emphasized that what students confront upon arrival to college is what they think has always been, an example of this being gel time. A clarification of the purpose of Union College, as well as its academic atmosphere, was made. one of the questions raised was whether Union fosters a sense of trust, which the Honor Code would act upon, or whether Union lacks a sense of trust, which perhaps an Honor Code could create. John Meier made the point that colleges similar to Union have implemented Honor Codes that have been ·successful in reducing the amount of cheating. Professor Bradley Lewis · presented the benefits that the 1 Honor Code could have for professors. Not only would it · reduce the time that the faculty spends being a police force, it . would also allow them to , prepare more beneficial : assignments where faculty i would not have to worry if a ; similar assignment was on a The relationship between the implementation of an Honor Code and its effect on cheating was questioned by Dean Mammola . • • who felt that it sets up false standards. past test that could be copied. More effective take home tests could be given and self scheduling of exams would aJso be a benefit. The relationship between the implementation of an Honor Code and its affect on cheating was questioned by Dean Mammola. Dean Mammola also felt that the Honor Code sets up false standards; these expectations are ones that the real world fails to meet. Two students voiced the opinion that it was not their responsibility to pol ice their peers, yet with the implementation of this proposal everyone would be signing a contract that states a Continued on page 3 IFC Seeks Change Under New President By MA.RCI SILVERMAN Members of the various U ni()n College fraternities elected the 1989-1990 Interfraternity officers on Tuesday, April18. Leading the executives, Arthur Hudson of the Delta. Upsilon fraternity will serve: as President, while Brad Close of Sigma Chi will assume the position of Vice- President. Ray Holtz will fill the office of Treasurer and Chi Psi's Eric Miller will serve as Secretary to the council. Tlte Interfraternity Council (IFC) is the governing body of all Union\s fraternities and its primary objectives lies in the enhancement of Greek life by means of improvement and advancement. Striving to I regain its place of prominence among school organizations remains a chie::'\ goal <Jf tile IFC. In order to both improve and highlight the Greek image to the student body, faculty, a11d administration, the IFC has organized several service projects to both college and community, fundraising, and has taken an active role ill the restructuring of social p-olicies and fratemity-coUege relatio11s. As President of the I:fC, Hud~on will run the bi-weekly council meetings and present the meeting's agenda, as well as serve as the chief representative of the S ttJdent Forum. Another aspect ()i the president's job inv()lves working closely with Dean Frederick Alford in organizing school events and workshops. Hudson will continue to strive for a more influential role and stronger voice for the IFC in student and administrative affairs. He believes the IFC should have a greater influence in the decisions involving student disciplinary cases rather than relying solely on the decisions of the administration. Hudson hopes to highten the importance of the IFC as one of the school's prominent organizations. Furthermore, he hopes \to establish scholarsllip recognition through the issuing of awards and acknowledgement in the school's media sources.\ ., \>\. ' ',. ~ • Newly-elected IFC president Arthur Hudson.

Page 2 CONC()Rl)IENSIS April 27, 1989 .Qtnncnrbi.ensis N'EWS ANALYSIS \ . . U.S. Politicians Strug.gle For Renewed Public Faith By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General M·anager The political arena bas been heating up latel:y in Washington. Both sides of the aisle are being investigated and accused of misconduct. The Iran-Contra affair is producing evidence that President Reagan did have knowledge about the deal. If this turns out to be a proven fact, then Bush may be forced to flex his presidential muscle and grant Reagan a pardon. The \Great Orator'' image will be gone, however this may upset Nancy mor.e than anyone else in the poHtical establishment. The Republicans are facing hard times with the defense budget · as well. President Bush • promised to continue the Space Defense Initiative, the Stealth Bomber, and expand the Aircraft Cartier Fleet to fifteen in his campaign promises. It was reported this week that SDI. will have to be cut back, the pwcurement of the bombers will he delayed one year, and the Aircraft Carrier Fleet will only reach fourteen. As well as the Republicans having trouble, the Democrats are in the middle of many manageFial problems Speaker of the House Jim Wright is under a tedious investigatian regarding illegal payments to .his wife and to himself. The Democrats in the house ate being careful not to campaign too hard for the positions that will be open (Majority Leader and Whip, with the present ·Majority Leader becoming- on both sides of the aisle leave Speaker) .ff the· Speaker is the public wondering about found to be involv.ed with what rs g·oing on i;n .. illegal funds. Also, the Washington. ~s there any· Democrats: are having trouble .reason to_ ttu·st the pOliticians in the broad area of winning .. in p(;)w~r? In my • o:pinion,. the . . electiens. The Republicans are . answer would pe a careful yes .. presuading greater numbers. of Politicians ate in the. public Bush promiSed to continue the Space Defense Initiative, the Stealth Bomber, and .expand the Aircraft Carrier Fleet to fifteen . • .last week it was rep.orted that SDI will have to be cut back, the procurement .of the bombers. win be delayed one year and the Aircraft , Carrier Fleet will reach dnJy fourteen. past Democratic voters to shift to v-oting Republican. ·'The people,- in the meantime, do not appreciate being used in the political game. . . The result of an the investigations and allegations seryice field :to serve the ,public. Generalizing about all ,politicians is out of line, when . only two are seen doing wrong. Many would at'gue that there ru:e man,y more politicians that are \crooked but it cannot be proven. This may be true, however we as a society must put our trust into the. politicians ·tO repFesent our interest in Washington. This must happen for the society to survive without mass chaos. It does not mean that the faith we put into politicians should be blind. We should monitor the conduct of tile elected representatives and prosecute any ill~gal actions 'to the fullest extent of the law. This assertion holds true for any electro official from those in Student Fo:niiil to the President of the United States. -. . . SPAA Initiates Environmental Awareness Week By ROBIN ISSERLES \Can you give one minute and 50 .cents to our environment?\ This question was posed by Clarence Gregory, Jr. di the Sierra Club with respect to the controversy over the .recently introduced legislation that would allow full-scale oil and gas · development in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge's coastal plain. We, the members of SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and Action) now pose this same question to the Union College community. President During the week of May 2-5, SP AA will be sponsoring an Environmental Awareness Week which will help the students, faculty, and administration of Union answer this question. On Tuesday, May 2, SPAA will begin the week by celebrating \Water Week,\ in conjunction with the Department of Environmental Conservation. Its theme is entitled \Non-Point Source Pollution\ which is any form of water pollution that does not come from a readily identifiable source (such as a pipe). This form of pollution contaminates wells with pesticides, solvents, or gasoline; clogs rivers with eroded soil; damages lakes, forests., and buildings with acid rain; and promotes the growth of unwanted water weeds from fertilizer and sewage nutrients. . Wednesday,·May 3; wiUfQCus on the red recycling bins wbich SP AA has recently installed in two different areas around campus. The garbage dilemma has been a growing concern with the imminent threat of closing landfills and tlie formidable question we must all soon face .as to where our garbage will go. Thursday, STUD·ENT FORUM ELECTIONS TAKE NOTICEI UNION STUDENTS V.P. For Adrninistration V.P. For Finance Senior Representatives V.P. for Academic Affairs Junior Trustee Sophmore, Junior, Senior Class RepresentatiVes to Alumni Council PETITIONS AVILABLE APRIL 28 .. MAY 5 . In the student activities Office 4th Floor College ·Center \The Student Forum is ... responsible for promoting the student body of. Union College The elected officials administer the student activity fe.e,, .officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and through student membership on College committees, ?dvise the College Administration of issues pertaining to the student body.\ May 4, will be devoted to .the increasing controversy over the proposal to driU oil from the northeastern part of' Alaska. This area is known as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge., and was set aside by President Eisenhower in 1960 for protection of its 1.5 million acre wilderness. It is ·the contention of environmental organizations, such as the Coalition for Our Earth and Sierra Club, that it is a mistake to destroy this area for oil when other oil~saving energy strategies have not been pursued, such as ·raising automo~bile efficiency standards, developing alcohol fuels, building better mass transit, encmiraging solar technologies, etc. Throughout the week· there will be information tables, video tapes, lectures, as well as · some 'environm,enta.l activities.' SPAA invites the entire college community to participate in any way. We urge you to stop at the tables in the College Center next week, read tbe available literature on these. pressing issues, and give that \o.ne minute and 50 cents\ to our environment. · The Econo~mics Club l.s Proud To Announce: \Life After Union\ John Colley, a 1982 graduate of Union and Vice-President of Schenectady Trust Co. will be on campus Monday, Ma~ 1 at 3:30 pm to $peak to studer~ts interested in _ pursuing a career in banking . All are welcome . The talk will take place in SS1 03. .. ; THE DEPARTMENT-OF SOCIOLOGY AND ANTIIROPOLOGY INVITES YOU TO ATTEND·THE SPRING TERM L&WIS HENRY MORGAN COlLOQUIA May4jjh. DR. TAMAR GORDON; VISI1'ING ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ANTHROPOLOGY \THE M9RMON TONGAN FAMILY: MIRROR OF MODERNITY\ . 3:30 _-Social Sciencesl05 ' i· . '

CONCORDIENSIS April. 27, 1989 Page 3 Student Forum Votes Pr·ofessor Berk Advises Moscow Authorities On Holocaust· Exhibit On Issues For First --· Time This Tenn By JENNY LYNN COOK Continued from page 1 r.elayed information from the most recent meeting of the Student Affairs Council. Two issues highlighted the report. The first of these· was a proposal by Paul Mantica, Director of Campus Security. Waible stated that Mantica presented a new system of fines to the colllffiittee concerning fire alarms. The present policy caBs for a $100 fine and immediate dismissal from residenc.e halls as well as possible disciplinary action for a pull box offender. - The For11m has adopted a plan which will decrease their $21,000 debt by $7,000 per year over the ·ne~t three ;years. Mantica's proposal raises the For the first time iu Soviet Bronner) to' receive the house history a new Jewish cultural on a regular basis with the center, located in .Mosc<Jw, is College. Currently, the presenting an exhibit eatitled: Cultural Unity House members ;'The Courage To Remember must enter the lottery each The Holocaus.t: 1933-1945.\ spring :md run the risk of not Professor Stephen Berk, of the . getting all their members in to history department, was one of Bronner. Waible stated to the three historical advisers on the · Forum t~at the majority of the • exhibit. SAC members were against the · The exhibit gives a detailed proposal. Although the Forum . pictorial history of the rise of did not make a definite decision · Nazism, the themies bellind it, concerning the top:ic, it was · and the suffering of Jews · debated for a short time and the throughout the Holocaust. possibil:ities of common-theme Prof. Berk states, \The Soviet houses · and homeless government has never before . fraternities/sororities were acknowledged that Jews were . · Proi~ssor Berk, one of the three historicnl advisers for Holocaust e)(h'il>it in Mosc:;:ow. b ht upsurge of \popular anti- rang up. singled' ou· t. b. y the Nazis.\ He • N I 1 d 'd f semi ti sm.\ Professor Berk · ew y~e ecte pres1 ent o cites a monument dedicated to th I . t f' t . c· '1 questions whether this new e n er ra erntty ounct, \Soviet victims\ ofWmld War Arth H d · \' d h open ness and poli.cy towards · ·· ur · · u son, m 1 orme. · t · e II. is·, in fact, th. e death of F th G k W . k ·11· Jews is a sincere desire to relax · orum . at · ree . · · ee w1 ·. 80,000 Jews and 20 ;000 · fr M 17 2·0 H 1 J ewisfl pressures in the Soviet run om . ay - .. · e a so Ukranians. t t d th t C U ·· ·11 Union or rather a way of s a e · a amp · .· mon Wt · The new cultural center and t ·b t. · f t f w · achieving \Perestroika.\ no e se up m ron o . · est the exhibit are examp.les· ·of C . 11 th' b. th · P.er,e~troika is the · o·ege·tsyear,.utra.·er,It \Glasn.ost\ ~or the new '11. • 1 th f h rec<>n~truction of the Soviet WI · tnvo ve e part o t e openness under Soviet leader b h . d. th. f' 1· d econ()my which can only be campus up e · m e u · · Mikhail Gor. bachev. Glasnost h d A h 'll · k I achieved by the help of ouse an . nc 1 . es nn · n has· also allowe.d l·\·r·g·er 1 · H d d h \' Western civilizations such as c osmg, u son stresse t e numbers of Jews to o. btam' · ext't · the United States and Great Western civilizations that policy is changing, the Soviet Union is creating a good image and therefore it will lead them to have increased trade and credits from our civilization. \Such an exhibit would have been unheard of even a few years ago,\ says Prof. Berk. It is a step forward for the Jewish people of.the Soviet Union and a prime example of the changes being made in the Soviet Union. . fine to $50()· in addition to the previous additional penalties. The new .plan also seeks the issuance of a $25 fine to all members of the floor whose pull box is involved if no offender can. be found. The Forum was unanimously in favor of raising the fine to $500, however,- there was Importance of publicizing tlle visas so as to escape the · · · s 1 b h · h visit of Will Keirn who will be !-----------------__,...----__;_-· B ____ n_tal_n_._ur_e_· -~Y__;_Y_s_. o_w_l_n.::.g_t_e.....;... __________ _ speaking at Union on the H C d A A t positive aspects of the Greek 0 fl 0 r · 0· . e: . fl fi SW e r 0 sy~~:~Closedtherneetingby Ch_eating vs. A Cause for Cheating stating that next week's .· mueh concern over the_ $25 floor fine and very few people accepted the second part of the proposal. The second issue relayed by Waible involved Bronner Hous~;: and a request presented by the CuJtura1 Unity House {the pr_esent occupants of meeting will be held on Th:ursday, April 29 in .room 409 ·of the College Center and will be closed to Student Forum members only. Costa teminded everyone of the · upcoming discussion on an honor code at Union urging all to attend and then closed the meeting at 8:45PM. SU·MMER/PART TIME • The Sagamore Resort is having a job fair for all summer positions the weekend of April 21-April 23. • Arden G.roup Publications has positions open for an advertising sales representative. Located in NY. Applications accepted on a first come, first serve basis. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 30. • NYS Job Service, located in New George, is placing people in summer job spots as they become available. • Saturday, May 20, is a Cape Cod Summer JOb Mart, held in West Barnstable, MA, for those looking for jobs in the Cape Cod area this summer. . • Summer )ob opening for fhose who wish to work for 3 or 4 days a week, applying removable tattoos. • Melwood training Center, located in Md .•. has openings for those interested in counseling rehabi.litation, ·social work, or recreational therapy. • Attentive Personnel, located in Albany, is a temporary personnel ~gency providing · . services throughout the capital district, has a variety of job opening.s. *** FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THESE JOBS AND MORE, COME TO THE CDC. Continued f·rom page 1 · student will report anyone who has intentionally violated the honor code. \The academic atmospl1ere at Union needs to be dunged before an Honor Code can be implemented,\ said junior Robin Isse.rles. Others supported her by comm-enting that too many students focus on grades and not on what they are learning. An issue that needs to be addressed is whether ·. or n<Jt the Honor Code will · foster the feef.ing that we are here to learn. Two students voiced the opinion that it was not their responsibility to police their peers. 011e of the goals of the · homH code will be to uphold the ~·maintenance of a community standard,\ thus enforcing a standard outside of Honor Code- academics which could perhaps relieve the fire alarm problems, theft, and vandalism. Issues that were raised in connection with its potential for success included our apathetic student body and the fact that 40 percent of the students wanted to be at another school. When voting on Friday all points must be considered. In order for an Honor Code to be successful it must be implemented by everyone. Proposal The guidelines to the Honor Code Pmp()sal are as follows: 1. The student signs a contract upon admission to the college promising not to cheat or steal. Consequently, the student puts llis or her signature at the end of every exam in order to reinforce that fact. II. As a result, .a student must report any student who has intentionally violated the Honor Code to an Honor Advisor. He or she advises the student as to the validity of the claim. . III. The offender will be sumrnonded to a trial run by students where he has the right to face his accuser. IV. A committee of student:; evaluates each case with the offender having the right to appeal to the administration . The following proposal has teen formed out of an interest by students. Many other colleges similar to Union currently hetve an Honor System. The proponents of an Honor Code ?nly w~nt to see it take effect if the student body eagerly embraces the system. Thus, it is 1mperattve that eaclt one .of us vote. The vote win occur on Friday, April 28th in the College Center. ) . i \ i I i .

Page 4 CONCORDlEN,SIS April 27, 1989 FEATURES Who's the Man With the Big Stick? By ELIZABETH PINNEY After my first few weeks at Ulli'oll I grew used to the sta.JLll,Ilg sight of a. little man witll a big stick picking through the garbage every morning when I left for class. A.:ltllough I felt sorry for the little man, it made me very uncomfortable to pass by him ·e-very day. A few weeks later I realiz:ed that he was not actu.ally picking through the guJ)age, he was emptying it. He '\Vasn 't a vagrant after all, b:utan. employee of the college. A.:ftc.:r I figured that out I decided I wanted to know who this little nran was. In ()rder to find out where he wouJd be working. one day, I c~l]etl the physical plant and .talked to the foreman. He said itVJa& perfectly fine if I wanted to tall< to the little man but I woll,ld have to come to the pla11t a11d have the foreman or some()ne else present. When I asked why, he said I'd und(rSt1lnd when I got there. Gre2t, I thought, what the hell have I l!;Otten myself into? The i11terview was at 4:00 and I bad· a couple of hours to kill .s:o my mind started w~UJd~rfng and wondering why the foooman would have to be there .• Maybe the little man is actua:lly mad rapist who is re:pay-ing ibis debt to soc~ety by cleaniflg up after college kids. Or maybe he's an illiterate Uni OIJ graduate and they are afraid I will ask him where he went fiQ> college. I began to regret what I was about to do and begged my roommate to . come with me for moral support. She just laughed at me a:nd s~id no way this was yourid.~. So I: vvent alone and finally met tile little man. I found out his name is Pete Williams and he really is q_uite harmless. The only reason someone had to be there with me was because Pete is· a little hard .of hearing. He also didn't talk much but I found he has worked for Union for the past25 years~ Every day he painstakingly roams the campus gathering every last plastic 8 oz. cup and empty B'Qfger King bag. I also folltld out he's a resident of Schenectady and during ,the summers he likes to do wlut everyone else does, \Take a vacation, relax!\ As he told me this his face lit up with a 'i>ig smile and then I knew there was nothing to be worreid about any more. He also t()ld me he likes the students het:e at Union and often talks to them while he's working. Finally, my curiosity was satisfied and 1 decided to end the rather short interview. Because losing the Game mJ KRISTIE ARNHOLD The first article that I wrote f~r Concordiensis at the be_gi11ning of winter term was e!ltrJted \Playing the Game.\ Since that time, many aspects of tl1 e job search game have bec<Jrne clearer to me, enabling rn e to expand on previous portrayals, in particular, the in.lerview. THE INTERVIEW. !flat's what I had thought, but on this day, this seemingly unmarketable, interviewing Ileophyte had SEVEN i11terviews. \What a long day!\ exclaimed a sympathetic few. \O'Ile of them will have to ,give you a job,\ replied some {)IJtirnistic fellows. \Your head wiH£pin,\ sa.id a most accurate a11d .insightful friend. 'Ihe first one was pretty good b-eca.use it was, of course, the first one. The last one was very relaxed because it was, by the s~rne token, the last one. ~oinewhere between 8:30 a.m. a:nd 4:00 p.m., I saw my head r spin11img down the hallway like a wa!;hed and curled, dirty blonde top. Ar;; I :seemed to be the least in[Qrltle<l of the bunch, my fel-low ilflterviewers did most of the talking. I have cens~qLJently mastered the fine arts (){ looking extremely intc:re~ted and attentive, nodding my head as if in a state of uiLd.erstanding, mumbling YBS aL appropriate times, and everltal<ing an occasional note or two, What remains per!)lex.ing is what role I was to pi ay in a Fortune 500 conljlatly, being a near graduate of a ~tn[kll libe:ral arts college, witl1 \barely a grasp of what indllstrial sales and marketing might be!? I envisioned myself as tlJe iron on the monopoly bo2rd., slowly flattening my chaac.es with every· roll of the dice a:s 1 neared Park Place with a hotel on it. ••I11dustrial sales, is just like sellin~ skirt,\ I was told. I WeJ~F .sk:irts, I buy skirts, I like skirts, and I could even be inclined to make a skirt. I heave never, however, even tried on a bonded abrasive grinding wlleef (although I am sure that they have it in my size), I have ·no reason to buy one, and llave negligible certainty about h.()W to make one. The paqlllel was just .not there ,in my eyes, What did manifest itself in my brain was that as much as I thought that I knew, corning from Union College, and as good as I ilad convinced myself that I was, the Harvard MRAs will swallow the BAs in this world in nearly every situation. Although this article may sound grim. it is not. Every aspect of the job search represents a learning experience that only enhances the academic education that one receives at Union. As se11iors slowly emerge from 'the microcosm which any college creates, what becomes increasingly evident, eve11 in our relative antiquity, according to Jon Fox, is how much we do not know. 'l?ltiU~U)~ \\\litltl\lt~11) ~~sg• Jlu~~t 9• ·-11()-11.~ ll9•sg• Alumni Affairs· lamont House Sche11~ctady, N.Y. 12308 (S18) 370-61-68 $ NEBD EXTRA CASH?!$ We are looking for students who want to earn some fun; easy, money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion/ Commencement Weeken.cl (June 9 & 10), please stop by the Alumn.:i Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. · of the foreman's warning. and my overactive imagination. 1 had thought maybe this man was daqgerous but of course I was overreacting as usual.. Pete was obviously satisfied and very happy to be at Union. Norm. the supervisor, also told me that Pete is a very hard worker and is happy to give a hand whenever he's needed. As I stood up to leave. Pete shook my hand. flashed another contented grin and held the door for me, I left feeling very pleased .vvi:th myself for finally meeting the mysterious little man. Finding out what a friendly guy he really was, I headed home to tell my roommate what she had. missed. A sel«:tion from Gwenddlyll Brook's anthology of pOems entitled ''Blacks\:~ To Be In Love, Is to touch thingswith a 11ghter hand. In yourself you stretch, you are well. You look Cit things Througil his eyes. A Cardinal is r~. . . A sky Is blue. Suddenly you know .he knows too. He is .ni)tthere but · Y.pu kn()w you· are tasting tQgether The winter, or light spring we~;~ther. His hanq to tal<e your hanc:f is overmuch. Too much to b(lar. You canhot'look in his eyes Booal;lse your pulse must not say What must not be S!iid. · When he Shuts ·a door- Is not there- Your arms are water. And you ar~ free With a gh!lslly freedom. You are the oeautiful half Of a golden hurt. You ·remember and·covet his mouth. To touch, towhisperon. · Ohwhen to declare Is certain Death! Oh·when to apprize Is to mes111erize. To see fail down, the Column of'Qold, Into the commonest ash. · Natalie Bennett: PHOTO CLUB MEETING WE NEED SLIDES FOR CAMP UNION! Do you like to TAKE PICTURES of your friends? Would you like to get FRE.E FILl\l.t? · • Would you like to take part in presenting a SLIDE SHOW at CAMP UNION? If yes, then join the PHOTO CLUB NEW MEMBERS WELCOME! TONIGHT 7:30 CC RM 203 ... l Submit your Term Abroad pictures to the Yearbook. Drop them off in cc 408. I ·! t ll Sl t< n fi tl b 0 d it S! b n tl c ~

By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Wa,lking has become more. than a . method. of transportation, more than simply a way to get from bere to th~re, from there to here, more than one of the latest fitness crazes qf the 80's, UlOre than just exer.cise, walking has become an art. As with aU . other art forms th.ere is a definite emotional component inyolved fu walldng. Although successful walking, unlike a beautiful painting or a piece of music is not created: ·from a ·flow of fervent energy, yet as cliche as it may soupd~ walking is an incredibly ' . By MARK HAUGHTON You're twenty-eight years old. You are female .• You work in New York City in a banking po\sition. It is Friday and you are tired. You grab your house keys from your desk, slip out from your chair and walk toward the elevator. Yon dart into the bathroom to change into yout running clothes. You have done quite a lot of running and you are proud of your physical condition. You tfe your sneakers, stretch, yawn, and head for the subway eastbound toward the park, Central park. leave the subway and your eyes take their time in adjusting, You usually run hatd Qn FriQa.y but you have ~~n a late .start .(:ONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 5 FEATURES The Art of Walking satisfying expe:dence, both physically and emotionally. I assume you aU; know from readi11g The Health and Fitness Column by Jacquleine Randall, in tbe April 13 issue, that walking relieves tension, increases mental alertness,. reduces stress and can improve our .frame of minds, If you 'haven't read the article yet what on earth are you waiting for, go find a copy of the two~ week-old Concordiensis and get yom act together, it's in the Features Section, what were you thinking? Walking also seems to stimulate the mind, as our legs take us in one. direction and our thoughts lead us in another. Not only does walking allow us to physically escape from t.he confines. of the sometimes unbearably miniscule Union campas, but it also frees our thoughts from the everyday aspect of daily life. As our feet pound the pavement the ropes and pulleys of our brains roll away from ' the unimportant preoccupations of classes, professors, mid- terms, finals, fraternities, sororities, daily commitments, deadlines, schedules, \things- to,do\ and toward the feelings, frustrations~ memories, dreams~ hopes and fears. Finally free, in a world all our own we can now be alone with our thoughts. All of us know ;the feeling of simply wanting to get away, to escape from evetything and everybody. It is very difficult to remain sane without time to oneself. My Time, as little as it may be, is not only invaluable but is als() absolutely necessary. The hour I spend running sneakers plastered to my feet, earphones :pressed against my head, surrounded by .sounds of James Taylor or Cat Stevens is preeious_ Why is it that sitting in· my room for an hour, textbooks • tightly sb.ut, pens capped, phone ofCthe hook just doesn't cut it? 'To be honest with you I'm not quite sure. Is it because The Walk takes me away from the all too familiar, away from every!lay boredom and distractions to a world of new discoveries? ' In tc:dking on the phone, writing letters, \doing lunch,\ we catch up on the latest events, the latest gossip of our friends' lives. My daily walk is my time to catch up with myself~ to focus on all the impor.tant aspects ·of my own life which have been neglected or postponed throughout the day. Cementing Our Hatred so you decide to decrease the distance yeu plan to run. Your shoes begjn your stride. Good runners usually concentrate on -their feet first. Stride after stride your heart beat increases. You have a fervid pace going ... around. this bend ... up this rise ... down this hill, the trees you pass stand cold and motionless in the dusk that is slowly but surely sitting over the city. The sun sets in the west as usual. Somewhere, there is a place where horror sits on its silent haunches, awaiting your arriyal. It is fearless and rabid'. It carries weapons. It is brutal and enraged with hate. It hates you. You are unaware of its presence. Now you ate too close and the horror releases its hate on you. You are beaten, raped, beaten and raped, beaten and raped ... The sun has set on your life just as it. has set on . the city, yet tomorrow your sun won't rise. You will lie unknowing, comatose, all but dead in some white hospital bed. I must close my eyes, and I like the nation, must feel the sickness of the city, the slaughter and the hate that plagues the world, the anger that is embedded in the youth · of our country and others. I must feel the terror that was felt by the young woman and I must strike out against violence. And I and the nation must not sleep for this horror lies around all of us and in some of us. While I can't sleep, nor can I tire. for it is then that I am vulnerable tO the horror and the hate. One must wonder what is the proper punishment for the convicted. In ancient times punishment would have the feet and hands of the convicted removed. Consider the effectiveness of this. I can picture this fourteen year old boy returned to his gang of friends, four stumps wheeling along the broken pavement, tears rolling down the boy's cheeks. His pals could push him around for the rest of his life. His mother could teach him how to read and his father could teach him how to speak and converse, if he had parents. Society, that had taught him how to hate, could now ignore him and then he could feel the horror and his friends could see the horrur on his face as if it were a reflection of their own faces and their own horror. Perhaps then they would understand. Adding concrete to hate is the process of cementing hate in youth so that the hate transcends generational boundaries. When hate is taught in society it becomes a disease, the cure for which remains unused. The disease as any other disease spreads throughout the unvaccinated population. The vaccination for this inbred hatred and anger is the advancement of opportunity. Where opporttJnity exists visions of tranquility and peace are not blurred but clear and attainable. Our children have become like our environment, a scarce resource, diseased, polluted, and wasted. This should terrify us, docs it terrify you? Econotnics Club Lunch Table Wednesdays 12:55 in Carnegie Room 302 Economics Crisis Center If you need help in Intro or any core courses Social Sciences Room 103 4:00-5:00 pm WRUC 89.7 FM SHOW PICK-OF-THE-WEEK THE BOTTOM LINE with Josh Walkdman and Rob Friedman THE ULTIMATE TALK SHOW only for digits away at x6l51 Sunday Nights 9:00 .. 10:00 PM

' ' Page ~ CONCORDIENS.lS April 27, 1989 Get your teams rea(ly for GAMMA. PHI BETA and DELTA PHI's 2nd Annual Volleyball Marathon 12 noon 4/28 - 12 noon 4/29 all proceeds to henefi t the United Way WRUC JAZZ 8.97 . · WRUC the only radio staUon whose .DJ's know tbe secret • · . ' unHsted phone number ()f Elvis and Jim Morrison's home in · Hackensack, N.J. No. Artist Album Label 1 Steps Ahead N.Y.C. Band Cap:itol · GRP' Columbia 2 Chick Corea's Akoust:ic 3 4 5 6 7 8 8.97 Dirty Dozen Brass Ballet Voodoo George Duke Guilty Elektra GRP CBS. Dave Grusin Collection Preservation Hall Jazz Band Best o.f... Hiroshima East CBS John Scof.ield Pick Hits Gramma Vision Passport Talk 'Back Atlantic 8_J PDPULA~ btMANb ~ \* Aonday,fririay from 2-4prrt. 0 0 ~ wUJJll ~~ W®C!9 •••• . J(anthuryer ....• 99 4 I lifer of .foda) Any 'Yfrveiy ... 9'34 Qn~led. tlrase. wj10ntab ..• 9'i ·· So, ~top bg TieflceJ/o,r and get the lliJ§fj/i? for !)OUP f'ftOne:J I P. S J/ear Ute latest tiJJ1.eS, M ap.r fukel:ipx ntomillJ. llAfl~ Atijltfj Takacs String. Quartet to Perfo,;rm The Takacs String Quartet from Hungary will •• · pertorr:n at 8 p.m. Friday, April 28, at Memorial · Chapel for the Schenectady Museum-Union Colleg.e 1988-89 chambe-r mL!Sic series. · ~the group will perform Haydn's OP. 77:, No. • 1 in G; Zsolt Durko's No. 2 (1969}, U.S. · P:remi.ere; and Beethoven's No. 14 in G sharp, Op. 131. You are invited to attend the concerts f:r~e of .. charg.e .. You may pick up two tickets .to any ·• concert at Lorraine Marra's ·off.ice ln the • College Center on the fourth f:l·oor. Y9u must • ·' pick up your tickets no later than t~e day : before the.. concert. . .· You may buy a ticket at the door on the . evening of the concert or be admitted with . your colleg:e 10 card on a space avaHabl.e · · basis immediately prior to conc::~rt thne. WRUC CONCERT' -- Tune into 89.7 WRUC this week :o win tickets to the MTV/Northeast Concerts Head . Bangers . Ball at the RPI . Fieldhouse on 5/8 and to see The ' . . - ' ' - . . Tom Tom - Club at Saratogae · Winners also on 5/8. · · Rem·ember, you can't win if you don't list~n! . ' ' .©· . . fj}. fl?l· ·~ .io). ·~. '1? LF\'l lEJ !A Lnl LS U . . . - .May 5 I 6 ' J and 7

•·, •CONCORDIENSIS April 27, .1989 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES r .. , .., • ! - · .... ~ \':\.; - ·, ~:r. ~'}-.-· .. ~ . -~.,.....~ ' ~--:~.\'-- ' ' ... .... Tbis Wee:k in the World Extinction or Not Extinction, That Is a Monkey's Question ' By SHELLEY SZYMKO (4/18/89 • /24/89) China: Beijing wa.s the site of a pro-democratic protest by more than one thousand Chinese students. The death of former Communist· Party chief Hu. Yaobang was the cause to challenge authorities with such demands. The five-hour sit-in was ended by police and troops who also thwarted attempts by Chinese students to break into a compound where 'high-ranking Chinese leaders were meeting. This demonstration was the largest in Beijing since clashes following the death of Cl]ou En Lai. when many protestors were killed by security personnel. · · Switzerland: Kashoggi, a Saudi arms merchant, has been arrested. on U.S. criminat charges that he participated in a $100 million racketerring plot with desposed Phillipine President Marcos. Kashoggi has been declared a fugitive since October when he was,indicted in federal court in New York. . Jordan: King Hllssein is to 111eet with President Bush to discuss U.S.-Jordan relations and Mideast peace prospects. Tensions between. the nations about a decrease in U.S. economic and milLtary aid has called for such a rendezvous. Also in Jordan, :four_ thousand demonstrators protested government price increases on cigarettes, fuel, and other goods and services by atta.cking shops and setting cars afire. ... G:eorgia:. The overnight curfew was lifted and Soviet troops .wi~drew from th~ southern province of Georgia following several weeks of pro-independence riots. Conflicts between Red Anny soldiers and pro-indpendence demonstrators bad left nineteen dead. Since the conflicts have subsided, Foreign minister Shevardnadze has retumedto Moscow. I • Hy STEVEN s. vAN . Webster defined extinct as • no longer exist. We do not want human being become . ·extinct, Do we? We know that dinosaurs became extincted because they could not adapt to tb.e changing condition. Unlike dinosaurs·, we, the · . human beings, are also having · a problem on our own planet which we conc~m mainly abut · the nuclear war. We should be awared of this problem because we have seen enough of how tragic and terrified during World War II. Some people don't ·know what nuclear weapon is and what a nuclear war is. · Nuclear weapon is a deadly advance weapon that the scientists have ever invented in nowaday~ lt is very powerful as if it can destroys the city in one minute. Furthermore, it can cause leukemia, cancer and birth defects in people in all ,countires. In case of ·war between two countries what if one of this country uses a nuclear weapon? Do you know what is gong to happen? Well, we can visualize this through oat past experience during World War II. As you have seen with your naked eyes on television or you have l!ead the books about World War II, you might realize that how tragic and terrifying of these two bombs annihilated the cities and the population of Hitoshitna and Nagasaki in Japan. They were very lucky that <that> nuclear bomb was not as powerful as the ones th.at we have nowaday, otherwise the Japanese Island would have become extinct as the dinosaurs did. Should we let·a nuclear war happen in our future? One way to avoid this we sllould bring the concsciousness to the world. An example of how C()nsciousness can be achieved is given to us through the Hundred Monkeys Phenomenon described by Ken Keyes, Jr. He told us that some ·monkeys on the Kcshima Island were being observed by scientists. The scientists noticed that monkeys like sweet potatoes. The scientists throw a sweet potatoes on the sand. The monkeys ate it but they did not like the sand on it. However, a young monkey learned that the potatoes could be washed on a nearby stream. Once he learned the new trick, he taught his mother. The information was passed to the other monkeys. When a certain number was reached, the scientists noticed that the satne phenomenon the other Island. ·n This phenomenon shows that when enough of us aware of something, all of us become aware of it.\ What can you and I do about the biggest problem our world has ever faced? Your own awareness and action can be the added energy needed to make the difference between life or death for you, your family and for all of us. I feel strongly suggest all of you to think ,about a monkeys question. Should human being be Extincted or not be Extincted? Poland: For the first time in more than seven years Polish leader Jaruze1ski met with Solidarity founder Lech Walesa. Trade unions have been declared legal once again and this · meeting · exell)plifies a national reconcilitation following a government-opposition agreement on political and economic UNION REVIEfV OF BOOKS Rachel and Her Children By Jonathan Kozol May 17 changes. · LANGUAGE TABLES Mondays: 12:45 • 1:45 FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE Tuesdays: · 11:3f) - 12:30 · CHINESE Wednesdays: 12:45 m 1:45 GERMAN .. RUSSIAN Thursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITALIAN :DUTCH All language tables will meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. CONGRATULATIONS THE 1st INTERNATIONAL HOUSE BABY! SANDRO GIGINEISHVIU of A VTO AND LANA GIGINEISHIVILI ************************************ WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL 'FEATURES CAILIL ANJriHIJEIE A 1f g 374-3833 n~ulE[~WJ&lTO©INl~lL SUNDAY From [rlJ © Q] ~T~ .[ID [R1 (UJ [NJ© [HJ NOON-2:00 PM GlNJu~~[NJ~ lfH©[M~l f\{~§®[Q)@~®[f ~ITTI@ [F0@©IT) Everyone Invited! INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK BY ANTHEE CARASSA VAS \If you could go anywhere in the world, now, where would it be?\ Stephanie Jaryna '89---Gn a ferry crossing the English · Channel for twenty four hours. Jason Meshnick '89-In Georgia (USSR) now that the overnight curfew has been lifted and Soviet troops have left. Anthony V:rondissis '90-My island: Anartica. Mary Beth Manning '89-Eithcr at a beach in Jamaica with an unlimited supply of Pina Colada ... or back to Freshman year so I don't have to graduate and face the real world. Kevin Honikel '90-rd go to Amish country to see if Jeremiah the cow has become Jeremiah the Quarter Pounder. Cristina Calvi '91-IT ALIA, of course!!! Ezra Sherman '89-Into a state of limbo; where I could sit back and decide what I really want to do in life. Karabeba '89-0n a jet ski cutting through the turquoise colored Aegean sea while having my taste buds tingle with it') salty taste; JF A~IBJJI(!J)N ~IBJC[J)W REHEARSAL TONIGHT! ATTENDANCE REQUIRED SOCIAL SCIENCE 014 9:00- 11:00 P.M. ' \

\ Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS April 27, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY I Alaska, The Environment and Union p·roblem of .the Week Inscribe a circle of radius one l:n an~. equilateral triangle. Inscribe a smaller circle at each vertex, tangent to the circle and to two sides of the triangle. Continue the proces~ with progressively · s·maller ci,rcles; What is the sum of the circumferences of all the circles? By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. I had a funny conversation not too long ago, which eventually came back to haunt me. I was commenting to a chum how that when we were young, how much fun it was to collect beach glass, and that the day was not far off when children would collect beach plas-tic. window _at 65 MPH. As long as someone else does it, we're all for it. In lieu of Alaska, this approach has suffered an embarrassing defeat. And what did our apathetic population have to say? \Why didn~t the government do something about it?\ While some blame may apply here, the public opinion was typical of the attitude. Lo and behold, this same friend visited home last weekend, and upon returning to Schenectady, presented the author with one plastic bottle, completely weathered by sand, sea, sun, and wind. Only it was not smooth like the cherished blue glass of yesteryear, but quite rough all over. Dumfounded (and not for the first time either}. The environment is a subject which we all love to write and talk about, but one which is only the worse for it. The recent oil spill in Alaska only gives the public another horror story to toss around the coffee table. While politicians and board room .. executives squabbled, the public sat in the middle, waiting for the \right decision\ from Congress. The result of this public inaction resulted in the acceptance of Soviet help. Imagine the day when the United States is reduced to that. Americans on the whole are would-be environmentalists, who drive around in their pollution-emitting cars, throwing styrofoam McDonalds garbage out the The time has come for Americans to stop pointing the finger, and start lending a. hand. After all, is it not we, the public, who so loves to have the government off our backs? Or doesn't this count? The Alaskan disaster may appear out of reach to all of us, but the environment is jttst as important on a local leveL The Greens, an international environmentalist group,. for all their misgivings, state it best: \Think Globally, Act Locally.\ If we all had an approach like this, even the holy blue glass would be an endaag ered .species. To help the environment, we all must do our share-- in effect become modern day Minutemen for our world. An argument against this stating that \I can\'l save the world by Cleaning my neighborhood,\ can quicldy be refuted by Lester Brown's (of State of the World fame) insight-- \Individual countries do not have independent ecosystems. We (need) to sketch a framework in which to see how this world is tied together.\ How can we help, here at Union? To begin, do not litter. Union College to Host .Civil Engineers' Student Conference A concrete-canoe race and a bridge-building contest will be two of the highlights of the New York State Regional Student Conference of the American Societr of Civil Engineers scheduled Friday through Sunday, April 28 to 30, at Union College. The conference will be held in conjunction with the annual joint dinner meeting of the Union College and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ASCE chapters and ASCE Mohawk- Hudson Section. At the 7 p.m. dinner on April 28, Dr. Frank E. Griggs, dean and vice president of Merrimack College,. will speak about t.he construction of the Panama Canal for the 75th anniversary of the opening of the waterway. Griggs is the fonner chairman ·Of the Civil Engineering Department at Union and is a member ·Of the ASCE History and Heritage of American Civil Engineering Committee. Students from at least four colleges-- Union; Hudson Valley Community College, Troy; the University of Buffalo; and the United States Military Academy at West Point-- will participate in the concrete boat race from 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. April 29 at Central Park in Schenectady. ' Students from Union and · RPI will participate in a competition involving the builP,ing of a 20-foot steel bridge from 2 to 4:30 p;m. that same day in the parking lot beside Union College's Butterfield Hall. Other events on April 29 include a business meeting from 4:30 to 5 p.rn~, a water volleyball tournament in the Alumni Gym pool from 6:30 te 8:30 p.m., and the showing of the film, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, from 9 to 11 p.m. . Dr. Carl George, a biology professor at Union, will speak about the Nott Memorial~ a 16- sided historic building at Union, during an awards brunch from 8:30 to 10:.30 a.m. on April 30 in tile Hale House dining hall. A tour of the Nott will be held from 10:30 to noon. The conference will end at noon. The campus has the snottyness. to drop beer cups, paper, and other refuse on the ground-- assuming that someone else is paid to do it .. Good attitu.d.e. Stop vandalizing the camp11s, whether it be breaking windows, pulHng alarms, or poundng through the shrubbery. And, if you paint the idol, have the courtesy to rem0ve all the paillt cans when finished. Do you really need to paint the grass, too? Is i~t not bad enough that the surrounding grass is already dead? Walk 'On the paths. That's what they .are there for. Refrain from using aerosol cans. Tiley depl!;!te the ozone, and plu:s. gel and mousse are more 'chic tllese days, girls-- do I dare say g-uys? · Use the Red Bins for recycling paper, and recyCle cans too. The bins remain hal~ empty, while refuse cans, some not three feet away, are still h.alf full. As for cans, most every dorm fluor has space for :your empties, and even the SlceUar now has a pail for returnables. If yo11 have gotten this far, at :least yott have some concern. Now it is time to put some, : action behind your feelings .. It would be a shame to think I wasted good trees fo.r no reason. Con goratulatiqns to Las.zlo Bo roczky, who corre,ctly solved last w.e:ek's problem of the week. Solutions should be submitted to Lois~ Bing in the Mathematics D·epart'ment Office between the hours ·of 9 a .. m. - 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. - 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted win receive .the we,ekly ten dol:lar prize. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bai'ley 1 06. ' ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY WEEK: COMING SOON: MAY 2-4 Talk set on evolution, future of human sexuality Helen Fisher, an .anthropologist who has srudiecl the evolution of ·marriage and divorce, human sexuality, and relationships between men and women, will speak on llHuman Bonding: the Evolution and Future of Human Sexuality\ at the 11 a.m. Minerva hour on Thursday, April 27, in the College Center auditorium at Union College. She is a research associate with the American Museum of Natural History and has S·erved as a consultant for a number of radio and television shows. The talk is free~

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Alaska, The Environment and Union Problem of the We,ek Inscribe a circle of radius one in an HquHateral triangle. Inscribe a smaHe,r circle at each vertex, tangent to the circle and to two sides of the triangle. Continue the process with progressivel;y smalller circles. What is the sum of the circumferences of aU the circles? By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. I had a funny conversation not too long ago, which event~Aally came back to haunt me. I was commenting to a chum how that when we were young, how much fun it was to collect beach glass, and that the day was not far off when children would collect beach plastic. window at 65 MPH. As long as someone else does it, we're all [()r it. In lieu of Alaska, this approach has suffered an embarrassing defeat. And what did our apathetic population have to say? \Why didn't the government do something about it?\ While some blame may apply here, the public opinion was typical of the attitude. Lo and behold, this same friend visited home last weekend, and upon returning to Schenect<.~dy, presented the author with one plastic bottle, completely weathered by sand, sea, sun. and wind. Only it was not smooth like the cherished blue glass of yesteryear, but quite rough all over. Dumfounded (and not for the first time either). The enviroRment is a subject which we all love to write and talk about, but one which is only the worse for it. The recent oil spill in Alaska only gives the public another horror story to toss around the coffee table. While politicians and board room executives squabbled, the public sat in the middle, waiting for the \right decision\ from Congress. The resu It of this public inaction resulted in the acceptance of Soviet he I p. Imagine the day when the United States is reduced to that. Americans on the whole are would-be environmentalists, who drive around in their pollution-emitting cars, throwing styrofoam McDonalds garbage out the The time has come for Americans to stop pointing the finger, and start lending a hand. After all, is it not we, the public, who so loves to have the government off our backs? Or doesn't this count? Tlle Alask<J<n disaster may appear out of reach to all of us, but the environment is just as important on a local level. The Greens, an international environmentalist group, for all their misgivings, state it best: \Thi11k Globally, Act Locally.\ If we all had an approach like this, even the holy blue glass would be an endangered species. To help the environment, we all must do our share-- in effect become mod.ern day Minutemen for our world. An argument against this stating that \I can't save the world by cleaning my nei~hborhood,\ can quickly be refuted by Lester Brown's (of State of the World fame) insight-- \Individual countries do not have independent ecosystems. We (need) to sketch a framework in which to see how this world is tied together.\ How can we help, here at Uni<m? To begin, do not litter. Union College to Host Civil Engineers' Student Conference A concrete-canoe race and a bridge-building contest will be two of the highlights of the New York State Regional Student Conference of the American Society of Civil Engineers scheduled Friday through Sunday, April 28 to 30, at Union College. The conference wBI be held in conjunction with the annual joint dinner meeting of the Union College and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute ASCE chapters and ASCE Mohawk- Hudson Section. At the 7 p.m. dinner on April 28, Dr. Frank E. Griggs, dean and vice president of Merrimack College, will speak about the construction of the Panama Canal for the 75th anniversary of the opening of the waterway. Griggs is the former chairman of the Ci vii Engineering Department at Union and is a member of the ASCE History and Heritage of American Civil Engineering Committee. Students from at least four colleges-- Union; Hudson Valley Community College, Troy; the University of Buffalo; and the United States Miiitary Academy at West Point-- will participate in the concrete boat race from 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. April 29 at Central Park in Schenectady. Students from Union and RP'l will participate in a competition involving the building of a 20-foot steel bridge from 2 to 4:30 p.m. that same day in the parking lot beside Union College's Butterfield Hall. Other events on April 29 include a business meeting fmm 4:30 to 5 p.m., a water voHeyball tournament in the AI umni Gym pool from 6:30 to 8:30p.m., and the showing of the film, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, from 9 to 11 p.m. Dr. Carl George, a biology professor at Union, will speak about the Nott Memorial, a 16- sicied historic building at Union, during an awards brunch from 8:30 to 10:30 a.m. on April 30 in the Hale House dining halL A tour of the Nott will be held from 10:30 to noon. The conference will end at noon. The campus has the snottyness to drop beer cups, paper, and other refuse on the ground-- assuming that someone else is paid to do it. Good attitude. Stop vandalizing the campus, whether it be breaking windows, pulling alarms, or pouncing throu.gh the shrubbery. And, if you paint the idnl, have the courtesy to remove aJ:I the paint cans when finished. Do you really need to paint the grass, too? Is it not bad enough that the surrounding grass is already dead? Walk on the paths. That's what they are there for. Refrain from using aerosol cans. They deplete the ozone, and plus, gel afld mousse are more chic these days, girls-- do I dare say guys? Use the Red Bins for recycling paper, and recycle cans too. The bins remain hal~ empty, while refuse cans, some not three feet away, are still half full. As for cans, most every dorm floor has space for your empties, and even the Skellar now has a pail for returnables. If you have gotten this far, at least you have some concern. Now it is time to put some action behind your feelings. It would be a shame to think I wasted good trees for no reason. CongratulaUons to Laszlo Boroczky, who correctly solved last week's problem of the week. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathemati,cs Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. - 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. - 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted will receive the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY WEEK: COMING SOON: MAY 2-4 Talk set on evolution, future of human sexuality Helen Fisher, an anthropologist who has studied the evolution of marriage and divorce, human sexuality, and relationships between men and women, will speak on ''Human Bonding: the Evolution and Future of Human Sexuality\ at the 11 a.m. Minerva hour on Thursday, April 27, in the College Center auditorium at Union College. She is a research associate with the American Museum of Natural History and has served as a consultant for a number of radio and television shows. The talk is free.

CONCORDIENSlS April 27, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Lecture on Geology Scheduled at Union College Medical Issue of. Abortion G.eorge H. Shaw, John and Jane Wold . Professor o:f Geology at Union College, will • speakon - .. \The History of the Continental ·ernst'' Center auditorium at the College for the Faculty CotlOciuium series. · Coffee and tea will be available at 4. By KA,RLENE RILEY Abortion has been one of the most controversial topics. In a recent issue ·of USA Today, a series of questions were posed concerning the medical issues of abortion. Here is a brief overview of the medical ,procedure-and consequence. The most c.Ommoli method of abortion is to witlen the .cervix and remove tbe :contents of the utems by using a suctioning device·. A spoon- shaped (currette) instrument is used to remove any remaining :tissue; in second trimester . abortion forceops may he used. Eco Club Speaker ·1\!_onday, May 1 .. Mr. John Colley S V • . .· . . r. . 100 Prestdent Schenectady Trust _Co. Alt.lmni.1980 ' ' Talk on Careers SS RM 103 at 3:3.0 . - The Traveling Club Presents ••• Satur!lay, May 6th Bus Leaves Wells House Bus l&aves Boston 7:15am 8:00pm (Drop/off and Pick/up at Quincy Market) $19 00 person Sign-ups.and more information available at the Student Activities Office CC408 x6118 Limited Seating Available - Reserve. Your Seat Soont According to the National eighth week of pregnancy. Abortion Federation, in about Therefore, abortion performed 3% of abortions, labor is after or at ei~ht weeks during induced by the physician, so gestation is \torture'' as stated that fetus and placenta are by Dr. John Wilke of the expelled as in childbirth: National Right to Life ~ost abonions are done Committee. under local anesthesia. Women A drug known as RU-486 getting third trimester (mifepristone) has been abo-::rtions may also get a drug approved in France for the to alleviate the pain. The pain tennination .of early pregnancy. suffered during the procedure is The drug blocks progesterone, simJlat to that of menstrual a hormone essential for the cramps, which can be very - maintenance of pregnancy. ]Jainful. This blockage of progesterone Tile Brain and Nervous causes -the breakdown of the Sy,stem of the fetus are not uterine lining, thus causing the fully developed to feel and onset of the menstrual cycle. perceive pain until about the (From USA Today 4/24189) Student Chosen for Summer Program in Nuclear Chemistry . Union College sophomore Christopher E. Witley, .son of Gordon and Janet Willey of Ballston Spa, is one of 24 students nationwide who have been selected for an American Chemical Society Summer Sc!J.ool in Nuclear Chemistry June 26 to Aug. 4. Willey will attend the summer .program at San Jose Sta.te University, San Jose, Calif. Graduates of the program will be assisted by ACS in :t:inding employment in the su111rner of 1990 with national lab;()ratories, universities or private industry. Last year, Willey received the Freshman Chemistry Achievement Award at Union College from Chemical Rubber Company Press. The award is given to the outstanding freshman chemistry major. Willey is attending Union with a four-year Dow Chemical Scholarship and is a member of the College's Chemistry Club and Phi Gamma Delta fraternity . A Ballston Spa native, Willey was valedictorian of the 1987 graduating class at Ballston Spa High School. During his junior year there, he received a Bausch and Lomb Chemistry Award. He plans to specialize in forensic chemistry. Wnion C!tollege jfacultp (!Colloquium Jnaugural .~bbress GEORGE H. SHAW JOHN AND JANE WOLD PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY ''HISTORY OF THE CONTINENTAL CRUST' TUESDAY, MAY 2,1989 at 4:30P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COFFE & TEA at 4:00 P.M. - ALL ARE WELCOME

CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Lecture on Geology Scheduled at Union College George H. Shaw, John and Jane Wold Professor of Geology at Union College, will speak on \The History of the Continental Crust\' Center auditorium at the College for the Faculty Colloquium series. Coffee and tea will be available at 4. Medical By KARLENE RILEY Abortion has been one of the most controversial topics. In a recent issue of USA Today, a series of questions were posed concerning the medical issues of abortioD. Here is a brief overview of the medical procedi:Ife and consequence. The most commoH method of abortion is to widen the cervix and remove the contents of the uterus by using a suctioning device. A spoon- shaped (currette) instrument is used to remove any remaining tissue; in second trimester abortion forceps may be used. Eco Club Speaker Monday, May 1 Mr. John Colley Sr. Vice President Schenectady Trust Co. Alumni 1980 Talk on Careers SS RM 103 at 3:30 The Traveling Club Presents Saturday, May 6th .. . . Bus Leaves Wells House Bus Leaves Boston 7:15am 8:00 prn (Drop/off and Pick/up at Quincy Market) person Sign-ups and more information available at the Student Activities Office CC408 x6118 Limited Seating Available- Reserve Your Seat Soon! Issue of_ Abortion According to the National Abortion Federation, in about 3% of abortions, labor is induced by the physician, so that fetus and placenta are expelled as in childbirth. Most allortio:ns are done under local anesthesia. Women getting third tri~nester abortions may also get a drug to alleviate the pain. The pain suffered during the procedure is similar to that of menstrual cramps, which can be very painful. The Brain and Nervous System of the fetus arc not fully developed to feel and perceive pain until about the eighth week of pregnancy. Therefore, abortion performed after or at eight weeks during gestation is \torture\ as stated by Dr. John Wilke of the National Right to Life Committee. A drug known as R U -486 (mifepristone) h.as been approved in France for the termination of early pregnancy. The drug blocks progesterone, a hormone essential for the mainteJJance of pregnancy. This blockage of progesterone causes the breakdown of the utedne liniHg, thus causing the onset of the menstrual cycle. (From USA Today 4/24/89) Student Chosen for Summer Program in Nuclear Chemistry Union College sophomore Christopher E. Willey, son of Gordon aud Janet Willey of Ballston Spa, is one of 24 students nationwide who have been selected for an American Chemical Society Summer School in Nuclear Chemistry June 26 to Aug. 4. Willey will attend the summer program at San Jose State University, San Jose, Calif. Graduates of the program will be assisted by ACS in finding employment in the summer of 1990 with national laboratories, universities or private industry. Last year, Willey received the Freshman Chemistry Achievement Award at Union College from Chemical Rubber Company Press. Tile award is given to the outstanding freshman chemistry major. Willey is attending Union with a four-year Dow Chemical Scholarship and is a member of the College's Chemistry Club and Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. A Ballston Spa native, Willey was valedictorian of the 1987 graduating class at Ballston Spa High School. During his junior year there, he received a Bausch and Lomb Chemistry Award. He plans to specialize in forensic chemistry. 1lnion <!olltgt ..f'acultp Colloquium JJnaugural .~bbress GEORGE H. SHAW JOHN AND JANE WOLD PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY ''HISTORY OF THE CONTINENTAL CRUST' TUESDAY, MAY 2,1989 at 4:30P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COFFE & TEA at 4:00 P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS April 27, 1989 LET·TERS Founded at Union College 1877 ---- What Hits the Front Page ·Union Men Are Not Involved I . ,. ' ' '' T When a march, rally, or event occurs~ and Union students have the opportunity to participate (and if any are motivated to do so), Concordiensis supports that participation, and we welcome any coverage. Credit must be given to those who actually make the effort to • stand for a cause, However, the point that one must · address is the fact that an event is covered at all. The articles printed in this publication are those the editors . find pertinent and relevant to the College community. Th.at which is placed on the front page of Concordiensis is evaluated in this way, Concordiensis is a newspaper for, by, and of the students. The constitution orthis newspaper states that \the purpose of Concordiensis is to compile and have published, by the students, a newspaper serving the needs and interests of the Union College community.\ In last weeks issue of Concordiensis, it was noted To the Editors: A recent issue of Concordiensis carried a notice of thanks to student volunteers for their hard work on behalf of the senior gift drive. Of the 24 volunteers, 22 were women. Glaring in their absence from the list were men. While it is dsky to assume anything, it would be natural to conclude from these statistics that senior Union men, in general, did n!'>t see this as an endeavor in which to be actively involved. If that were so, it would be interesting to know why. Regardless of the reasons, however, what is disturbing is the mere fact that senior Union. men, in general, were not involved in the process Qf creating their Class' departing gift to their college. It is troubling beca.ue Union College is your college, just as it is mine, and it needs us, all of us, to be actively involved for its future to be. secured. Notice, please, I didn't say it needs your money ... money is only a part of it. What Union needs is our commitment to do the things thatare necessary to keep it first rate. There are many, many fulfJ11ing ways. Commencement Weekend'. · less than two months away; will be a time of great joy and celebration. Aniong ·other festivites, the Class of 1989 will be formally and efficiaUy welcomed inta the society of Union alumni: We, ,as alumni, - will be thrilled to have you · replenish our l'lll1ks an:d join us in' our resolve to uphold Union's traditi(Joof excellence. As one solitary but C()mntitted ~11111\nus, tny hope is that Union men, as well as Union wome11, share the vision of Union as ,the very best college of its kind in the cQuntry. It will take the active participation ():f both for that Vision t<Y·be remity. For better or wo,:se, the f11ture of Union College is ill our hands, and those who foflow willl hold us· accountable. _ So, c'mon . .guys, if you've been holding back; let go. We .can't go far without you. Respe4Jtfully(and with M1J:terva in mind); Thomas S~ HitChcock; '66 that the front page defied \proper journalism.\ The . . authors of the article, to which this comment was directed, do hold their opinions concerning the issue, Interdepartmental Thesis Clarified and it is with apologies that they let theirjournalistic professionalism slip in regard to the headline \Union · To ·the•Editors: Goes to DC.\ Objectivity is often obscured by personal beliefs. However, editorializing can never be absolutely avoided. In regard to the purpose stated by the constitution, this article was indeed of the interests of the College community. It is for this fact that tlle article was printed at all. Were students, faculty and alumni not involved, it would not have merited the space on the front page. Whether the article was biased or not, the students that went are part of this College, making it therefore pertinent; making Union therefore involved. Students in opposition did have a chance to be involved, however they were not. Had this been the case, that side of the issue would have been duly covered, because, of course, that is the job of this paper. However, Concordiensis will take more care in presenting only the facts, in the future. Double Standard The Administration disregarded student polls when deciding upon geltime. They did not even consult the students when the decision to halt on:-campus parties was made. It is obvious that the Administration does not feel · that Union students are responsible enough to make decisions for themselves. The College community must recognize the students as · responsible adults in order for the Honor Code to be implemented ~uccessfully. The students can not be distrusted in one situation and trusted in another. Constant faith in the student body's potential must be recognized and expressed if we are to act maturely. The Honor Code can only be effective on a campus in . which the students are treated as mature adults. At Union College we are treated like children and dealt with as • irresponsible people. This treatment only breeds childish behavior. The question needs to be asked, however, if the Administration's policies are a reaction to student irresponsibility or whether the students have reacted to the Administration's patronizing policies. Whichever the case, the facts exist. Students are guilty of immature acts such as theft, vandalism, cheating, fighting and alcohol/drug abuse; Union College is a bureaucratic institution where the student's opinion seems to matter little. There exists potential for an Honor Code at Union, ' Perhaps it could curb cheating or create a better academic . atmosphere. but in order to do so, the Administration · must place its faith in the students in every facet of their existence. We must be trusted 360 degrees around. Implementing an Honor Code while retaining present policies; that's hypocritical. Although I applaud Mr. Aguinaldo for his enthusiasm in responding to my letter, he has misconstrued the true . intent of my letter to the Editor. \Freedom of Choice\ was the title chosen by the · editors for my untitled letter, although T am by no means embarrassed by that concept. Th'e interdepartmental issue · provided a convenient pretense for addressing a more grandiose problem. The letter was not a mean defamation of Union's LETTERS TO THE EDiTOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE. EDITORIAl BOARD ALL LETIERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED 'f.OTHE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS .. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. academic system but rath:er an attempt to help check the rising tide . of paternalism which threatens it. Mr. Aguinaldo feels that we should \give. our teachers a little credit.\ With this I have··· no problem, I only suggest that as students it is high time to give omselves a little credit. The very fact th~t a letter ·which might have been seen as · threatenhtg to those' attempting · to extend paternalism, was responded to by a student;' is an aff~tmation of the intellectual virility contained. · within the student bociy. 1 do not attempt to establish thli~ student body as a priVilegecl. upper-class; I simply feel that preventing paternalism will heighten the already stibstatttial ·potential of the Union Ccrnmunity. Such an opinio11. is optimistic regarding th~ potential of our st11dent body and should not be constru~d as \threatel}ing\ to any faculty'ot studentS. · · Sincerely, Eelljamin Auslan~ ·• ..

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 dtllllCllfbirnsi.s Founded at Union College 1877 ---- What Hits the Front Page When a march, rally, or event occurs, and Union students have the opportunity to participate (and ifany are motivated to do so), Concordiensis supp0rts that participation, and we welcome any coverage. Ciedit must be given to those who actually make the effort to stand for a cause. However, the point that oTie must address is the fact that an event is covered at all. The articles printed in this publication are those the editors find pertinent and relevant to the College cornlli:\Ullty. That which is placed on the front page of Concordiensis is evaluated in this vvay. Concordiensis is a newspaper for, by, and ()f the students. The constitution of this new~paper stl:lte~ that \the purpose of Concordiensis is to compile aud h.ave published, by the students, a newspaper serv-ing the needs and interests of the Union College community.'' In last weeks issue of Concordiensis, it wa~ Jl()ted that the front page defied \proper journalism.\ The authors of the article, to which this commellt was directed, do hold their opinions concerning the iss.ue, and it is with apologies that they let their journalistic professionalism slip in regard to the headline \Ullion Goes to DC.\ Objectivity is often obscured by pers()D.al beliefs. However, editorializing can never be a.b:solute1y avoided. In regard to the purpose stated \)y the constitution, this article was indeed of the interests. of the College community. It is for this fact that the ait:lc:le was printed at all. Were students, faculty and alumni not involved, it would not have merited the space <l11 the front page. Whether the article was biased or n<>t, the students that went are part of this College, mal<irlg it therefore pertinent, making Union therefore inv()lved. Students in opposition did have a chance to be involved, however they were not. Had this been the case, -tlu.t ~ide of the issue would have been duly covered, beca.u~e, of course, that is the job of this paper. f-l()wever, Concordiensis will take more care in presenti11g. only the facts, in the future. Double Standard The Administration disregarded student poll-s when deciding upon ge1time. They did not even con:sult the students when the decision to halt on~campus pCllties. was made. It is obvious that the Administration does 11()t feel that Union students are responsible enough to make decisions for themselves. The College community must recognize the stude11ts as responsible adults in order for the Honor Ct>de to be implemented successfully. The students can Tl!>t be distrusted in one situation and trusted in a.n{)ther. Constant faith in the student body's potential rnllst be recognized and expressed if we are to act maturely. The Honor Code can only be effective on a campus in which the students are treated as mature adults. At Union College we are treated like children and dealt with as irresponsible people. This treatment only breeds .childish behavior. The question needs to be asked, ho-wev,er, if the Administration's policies are a reaction t() student irresponsibility or whether the students have reacted to the Administration's patronizing policies. Which·ever the case, the facts exist. Students are guilty of immature acts . such as theft, vandalism, cheating, fighti:ng and alcohol/drug abuse; Union College is a bureaucratic institution where the student's opinion seems to matter little. There exists potential for an Honor Code .at Union. Perhaps it could curb cheating or create a bettet· a.cooemic ' atmosphere. but in order to do so, the Adminis.tration must place its faith in the students in every facet of their existence. We must be trusted 360 degree~ a.round. Implementing an Honor Code while retaini11g. present policies; that's hypocritical. LETTERS Union Men Are Not Involved To the Editors: A recent issue of Concordiensis carried a notice of thanks to student volunteers for ~heir hud work on behalf of the senior gift drive. Of the 24 volunteers, 22 were women. Glaring in their absence from the list were men. While it is risky to assume anything, it wou1d be natural to conclude from these statistics that senior Union men, in general, did not see this as an endeavor in vthich to be actively involved. lf that were so, it would be interesting to know why. Regardless of the .reasons, however, what is disturbing is the mere fact that senior Union men, in general, were not involved in the process of creating their Class' departing gift to their coUege. It is troubling becaue Union Coltege is your college, just as it is mine, and it needs us, all of us, to be actively involved for its future to be secured. Notice, please, I didn't say it needs your money ... money is only a part of it. What Union needs is our commitment to do the things that are necessary to keep it first rate. There are many, many fulfilling ways. Commencement Weekend. less than two months away, will be a time of great joy and celebration. Among other festivites, the Class of 1989 will be formally and officially welcomed into the society of Union alumnL We, as alumni, will be thrilled to have you replenish our ranks and join us in. our resolve to uphold Union's tradition of excellence. As one solitary but committed alumnus, my hope is that Union men, as well as Union women, share the vision of Un.ion as the very best college of its kind in the country. It will take the active participation of both for that vision to be reality. For better or worse, the future of Union College is in our hands, and those who follow wilH hold us accountable. So, c'mon guys, if you've been holding back, let go. We can't go far without you. Respectfully (and with Minerva in mind), Thomas E. Hitchcock, '66 Interdepartmental Thesis Clarified To the Editors: Although I appla.ud Mr. Aguinaldo for his enthusiasm in responding to my letter, he has misconstrued t:he true intent of my letter to the Editor. \Freedom of Choice\ was the title chose11 by the editors for my untitleti letter, although I am by n<J means embarrassed by that concept. The interdepartmental issue provided a convenient pretense for addressing a more grandiose problem. The letter was not a mean defamation of Union's LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORD lEN SIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDJENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. academic system but rather an attempt to help check the rising tide of paternalism which threatens it. Mr. Aguinaldo feels that we should \give our teachers a little credit.\ With this I have no problem, I only suggest that as students it is high time to give ourselves a little credit. The very fact that a letter which might have been seen as threatening to those attempting to extend paternalism, was responded to by a student, is an affirmation of the intellectual virility contained within the student body. I do not attempt to establish this student body as a privileged upper-class; I simply feel that preventing paternalism will heighten the already substantial potential of the Union Community. Such an opinion is optimistic regarding the potential of our student body and should not be construed as \threatening\ to any faculty or students. Sincerely, Benjamin Auslander •

' CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 . . Page 11 Aluminum. in Nott Right To the Editors: I'm artlused by Frederic:k V. Bronner's plea: for the destntction of the ~ott Memorial~. It would be blasphemous to tear down the most remarkabie edifice on the Union College campus. In addition, the Nott is a nati.<>nal landmark, and as such one would not be }')ermitted to tear it down. Furthe:rmore~ if that fine buildinJ1: is perceived as an eyesore as :Mr. B·ronner would lead arte to believe, an option that would be more acceptable is aluminum siding. Aluminum siding is both attractive and affordable. Please ~eep this option in mind. Aluminum Siding is the right choice! · Sincerely, Joe Pascarelli, ~63 Pascarelli Al!Bninum Siding Co. The .Nott .. . ..... To the Editors: background of the campus but conveys an atmosphere of strength and dignity. I tb<ink back to how impressive the building looked when I carne for my interview; it created an image about the campus tllat I wouldn't soon forget. 'Ihe uniqueness and. detail of the structUre reflects that of the campus as a wltole. Failure to restore this landmark W.()uld indeed be a crime. I am Writing ill regard to last week's response to the Nott restoration ·dilemma. Mr. Brenner expressed his amusement with the push to save the Nott; au contraire Mr. Bronner, it is your attitnde that is amusing. I would e)(pect suph a response from someone unfamiliar witll the Union College community and traditien but not from an alumnus. The N<>tt not onlv represents the stro~:~g historical / Very truly yours, Chatle11e A. Schweder Muller •g6 RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST Preliminary Rounds Week of May 8th I!Jl!SIGN UP TODA¥!!!1! . ·DISPLAY YOUR SKILL AT OR.A:L EXPRESSION Friday, May 12 • 7 pm p .. ss 016 -- CASH PRIZES CA$H PRIZES. CASH_PRIZES CASH PRlZES Applications: i) Science & Engineering Bldg., Room S-10 \ 2) Library Circulation Desk 3) Student Affiars Office - College CEnter THE TIME IS NOW/!! A ·Plateful of Questions Discussion Series Presents This Week's Question: \'How Will You Manage Your Career . & FaDlily'• Tuesday, May 2· 12:00 - 12.:45 pm 4th Floor Lounge of the College Center All Are Welcome! - B,ring your lunch LETTERS Ph .. s· · · \P ·b·1· · \ Gamma . ·. · 1 . ees , osst 1 1t1es To the Editors: For nearly three years now, Gamma Pbi Beta bas been a positive force on the Union -College campus.. When we colonized here we did not receive housing .. However; we were told that if housing bequne available we would be strongly .considered. According to our National Council, this ho·n:sing was. promis.ed, therefore making Union an ideal campus to begin a new c~pter. In over a period ef less than three years, two fraternities. have lost their housing pri'vilegs. Gamma Phi Beta. does not want to \take over\ fta:temities houses but want to make sure that the administration knows that this has opened up possiblities for our sorority. We understand these openings to be \next available housing•• which was part of the original agreement. Gamma Phi Beta feels that all the Greek organizations play an important role on campus. However, there seems to be the idea that Greek life at Union is being ·\phased out.\ The Greek organ~zations do a lot for the campus not because they have to but because the memers of the 'Greek system are proud to be a part of Union College. Gamma ~b.i Beta has been waiting patiently for housing for the past· three years. We appreciate tile support we have received from the s(udent body and hope tbe Administration will recognize this fact. By receiving housig, Gamma Phi Beta could continue its efforts to support events beneficial to the College and community. With. opportunities for housing arisng often, our sorority would like to be keot first ami foremost in the minds of the Administration when they are decidig who should receive housing. Sincerely,. The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. The Delta Chi Decision To the Editors: \What does it mean to be a Dean?\ This headline to the public image enhancement article which. appeared in the April 13 issue Qf the Concordiensis raises several important questions. Of course a Dean of an academic institution must involve him/herself in all aspects of campus activity and be available for counsel when a problem arises, but what Y,lse is· involved? Whose interests should a dean serve?. How much weight should his/her decisions ·carry and to whom should he/she be required to answer? In my years at Union I had always believed that if there was a situation in which you were being treated unfairly, you could always turn to the Dean to have the situation rectified. It is becoming increasingly aparent to me, however that this \justice will prevail\ attitude may have been somewhat naive. In the past several years there have been a number of administrative decisions which have been inflicted upon the campus community despite outspoken opposition. The latest in this series of unjustified actions in the Delta Chi housing decision. If you read this pap~r regularly, you are undoubtedly familiar with ' this controversy which lias received considerable coverage , in recent months, culmin!lting last week in the final decision to revoke our campus housing privileges beginning next fall. While this. decision does. not directly affectevery member of the campus community, it is a weighty de~ision, especially from an administration which portends to be supportive of fraternities. One would expect ·that there would have to ·?e considerable grounds on which to base .such a decision. Major infractions of school policy, insufficient levels of.acadcmic achievement, blatant disregard for housing privileges or human rights -- these are reasons for evicting a fraternity. The letter which we received stadng the final decision included only one justification, the following statement: \We reached this conclusion based on the wide gap between your occupancy levels and the 95% goal set two years ago ... \ I feel that this statement is both flawed and insufficient. The 95% goal spoken of was set for next year's occupancy level when we , will be able to fill our house, and the wide gap constitutes only a 13% difference from this year's 90% goal when terms abroad studens are accounted for.The purpose of this letter is not to belabor this issue. We have made our points clearly known and everyone has heard it all already. The decision is final and nothing can be done about. that. The true objective here is to raise questions about whose interests arc served by unpopular and unsupported administrative decisions. In this case, what value is there in evicting 36 students from their fraternity house so that 36 other people can live there, and delaying that decision until a time when finding off campus housing is almost impossible. This decision is certainly not in the interests of the brothers of Delta Chi. If it is considered to be in the best intersts of the campus community, then the decision can only constitute an administrative preference for the independent lifestyle over a fraternal brotherhood as no numerical advantages are attained by evicting us at this time. I feel that such a change in administrative policy should be made public if this is the case. Furthermore, our petiti()n showed that a major portion of the student body is opposed to the decision overall. What has been the value of petitions and questionnaires regarding controversial matters on this campus? From issues with profound impact on campus life, such as Gel-time, to simple matters of preference, such as the renaming cf Carnegie Hall (the Coilege Center). it would seem that the wishes of the students an<! faculty of this campus have been ignored. This is not to say that the administrators cf this college do not have the benefits of experience alid formal training in education behind them, but how much weight should these carry? Should this additional wisdom give the administrati()n absolute veto power over the collective will of the faculty and students of this college when, in fact, it is us that they are here to serve? After all it is our school and we should have the right to help set its policies and determine what it will look like, both while we arc here and for those who will foll()w once we have gone. It seems especially important that tllis participative process flourish on the college campus. The article mentioned above states, \Dean Mammola feels that this type of communication is essential in order to provide a 'quality community life in which individual rights are respected.' He believes Union is a small. caring place where people make a difference.\ I would truly like to see these statements · adhered to more rigorously in the formulating of administrative decisions. Eric S. T:urer Class ()f '89 Remember the WATSON See Professor Klein· SS109

CO'NCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 11 Aluminum in N ott Right To the Editors: I'm amused by Frederick V. Eronner's plea for the destruction of the Nott Memorial. It would be blasphemous to tear down the most remarkable edifice on the Union College campus. In addition, the N ott is a national landmark, and as such one would not be permitted to tear it down. Furthermore, if that fme building is perceived as an eyesore as Mr. Bronner would lead one to believe, an option that would be more acceptable is aluminum siding. Aluminum siding is both attractive and affordable. Please keep this option in mind. Aluminum siding is the right choice! Sincerely, Joe Pascarelli, '63 Pascarelli Aluminum Sieling Co. The Nott .. . . To the Editors: I am writing in regard to last week's response to the Nott restoration dilemma. Mr. Bronner expressed his amusement with the push to save the Nott; au contraire Mr. Bremner, it is your attitude that is amusing. I would expect such a response from someone unfamiliar with the Union College community and tradition but not from an alumnus. The Nott not onlv represents the strong historical background of the campus but conveys an atmosphere of strength and dignity. I think back to how impressive the building looked when I carne for my interview; it created an image about the campus that I wouldn't soon forget. The uniqueness and detail of the structure reflects that of the campus as a whole. Failure to restore this landmark would indeed be a crime. Very truly yours, Charlene A. Schweder Muller '86 RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST Preliminary Rounds Week of May 8th !!!!!SIGN UP 'JUDAY!!!!! DISPLAY YOUR SKILL AT ORAL EXPRESSION Friday, May 12 • 7 pm -- ss 016 -- CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES Applications: 1) Science & Engineering Bldg., Room S-10 2) Library Circulation Desk 3) Student Affiars Office - College CEnter THE TIME IS NOW!!! A Plateful of Questions Discussion Series Presents This Week's Question: ''How Will You Manage Your Career & Family\ Tuesday, May 2· 12:00 - 12.:45 pm 4th Aoor Lounge of the College Center All Are Welcome! Bring your lunch LETTERS Gamma Phi Sees \Possibilities\ To the Editors: For nearly three years now, Gamma Phi Beta has been a positive force on the Union College campus. Wilen we colonized here we did not receive housing. However, we were told that if housing became available we would be strongly considered. According to our National Council, this housing was promised, therefore making Union an ideal campHs to begin a new chapter. In over a period of less than three years. two fraternities have lost their housing privilegs. Gamma Phi Beta does Rot want to \take over\ fraternities houses but want to make sure that the administration knows that this has opened up possiblities for our sorority. We understand these openings to be \next available housing\ which was part of the original agreement. Gamma Phi Beta feels that all the Greek organizations play an important role on campus. However, there seems to be the idea that Greek life at Union is being \phased out\ The Greek organ~zations do a lot for the campus not because they have to but because the mcmers of the Greek system are proud to be a part of Union College. Gamma Phi Beta has been waiting patiently for housing for the past three years. We appreciate the support we have received from the student body and hope the Administration will recognize this fact. By receiving housig, Gamma Phi Beta could continue its efforts to SHpport events beneficial to the College and community. With opportunities for housing arisng often, our sorority would like to be kept first and foremost in the minds of the Administration when they arc dccidig who should receive housing. Sincerely, The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta The Delta Chi Decision To the Editors: \What does it mean to be a Dean?\ This headline to the public image enhancement article which appeared in the April 13 issue of the Concordiensis raises several important questions. Of course a Dean of an academic institution must involve him/herself in all aspects of campus activity and be available for counsel when a problem arises, but what else is involved? Whose interests should a dean serve? How much weight should his}her decisions carry and to whom should he/she be required to answer? In my years at Union I had always believed that if there was a situation in which you were being treated unfairly, you could always turn to the Dean to have the situation rectified. It is becoming increasingly aparent to me, however that this \justice will prevail\ attitude may have been somewhat naive. In the past several years there have been a number of administrative decisions which have been inflicted upon the campus community despite outspoken opposition. The latest in this series of unjustified actions in the Delta Chi housing decision. If you read this paper regularly. you are undoubtedly familiar with this controversy which has received considerable coverage in recent months, culminating last week in the final decision to revoke our campus housing privileges beginning next fall. While this decision does not directly affect every member of the campus community, it is a weighty decision, especially from an administration which portends to be supportive of fraternities. One would expect ·that there would have to be considerable grounds on which to base such a decision. Major infractions of school policy, insufficient levels of. academic achievement, blatant disregard for housing privileges or human rights -- these are reasons for evicting a fraternity. The letter which we received stating the final decision included only one justification, the following statement: \We reached this conclusion based on the wide gap between your occupancy levels and the 95% goal set two years ago ... \ I feel that this statement is both flawed and insufficient. The 95% goal spoken of was set for next year's occupancy level when we , will be able to fill our house, and the wide gap constitutes only a 13% difference from this year's 90% goal when terms abroad studens are accounted for.The purpose of this letter is not to belabor this issue. We have made our points clearly known and everyone has heard it all already. The decision is final and nothing can be done about that. The true objective here is to raise questions about whose interests arc served by unpopular and unsupported administrative decisions. In this case. what value is there in evicting 36 students from their fraternity house so that 36 other people can live there, and delaying that decision until a time when finding off campus housing is almost impossible. This dec is ion is certainly not in the interests of the brothers of Delta Chi. If it is considered to be in the best intcrsts of the campus community, then the decision can only constitute an administrative preference for the independent lifestyle over a fraternal brotherhood as no numerical advantages arc attained by evicting us at this time. I feel that such a change in administrative policy should be made public if this is the case. Furthermore, our petition showed that a major portion of the student body is opposed to the decision overall. What has been the value of petitions and questionnaires regarding controversial matters on this campus? From issues with profound impact on campus life, such as Gel-time, to simple matters of preference, such as the renaming of Carnegie Hall (the College Center), it would seem that the wishes of the students anc faculty of this campus have been ignored. This is not to say that the administrators of this college do not have the benefits of experience and formal training in education behind them, but how much weight should these carry? Should this additional wisdom give the administration absolute veto power over the collective will of the faculty and students of this college when, in fact, it is us that they arc here to serve? After all it is our school and we should have the right to help set its policies and determine what it will look like, both while we arc here and for those who will follow once we have gone. It seems especially important that this participative process flourish on the college campus. The article mentioned above states, \Dean Mammola feels that this type of communication is essential in order to provide a 'quality community life in which individual rights arc respected.' He believes Union is a small, caring place where people make a difference.\ I would truly like to sec these statements adhered to more rigorously in the formulating of administrative decisions. Eric S. Turcr Class of '89 Remember the WATSON See Professor Klein SS109

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS April 27, _1989 LETTERS Wake Up: You Have It Better Than. Most To the Editors: In response to last week's letter addressing the unsanitary conditions of West Dining Hall we have a \few\ objections with tile author's complaints .. To quote the letter, \Have you ever picked up a bowl or spoon that looks like if was never cleaned?\ May we return this with another equally valid queston, \Have you ev·er thought about putting it in the dishroom, and getting another one'?\ We've been led to believe that Jessica in her infinite wisdom has never come across a dirty bowl or spoon in her household. Jessica implies tilat West is the only place that a dish may not get cleaned properly. We really hate to be the one to burst your bubble but even in other eating establishments they may not get all their dishes clean. There are a few things we wot1ld like to point out (to all patrons of West). l. Have you ever tried to clean dishes for 500, 19 and 20 year olds, who assume that this task is done by an \inhuman machine\ that doesn't mind doing it. Well, here is probably an eye opener for you. Some hard-working people at West dean up after you. 2. If people are really bothered by dirt.y silverware we suggest that you bring your own. Obviously, people have their \own\ constd.enng that during a 7-week peiod West went \through\ 45 dozen knives, 36 dozen forks, 34.6 dozen spoons and 18.9 cases of glasses {and we are not talking plastic). Even if considering that about 3'0 glasses are broken a week by accident that leaves 1 ,158 glasses that just got up and walked out of West. 3. Maybe West is not a four star restaurant but considering what the employees have to work and deal' with, they do a good job. They should be commended, not ridiculed by individuals who .have never worked there. 4. Also, if you have a complaint about a situation with something in West, have you ever thought abol!t talking to someone who may be able to do something about it instead of just complaining? (This method has been proven to work! Example: the microwave.)From our understanding, you (Jessica) have never mentioned this to any of the managers at West, or students who work there. In regards to the hair net issue, we are sure that we all would agree that to find someone's hair in our food is not a particularly pleasant experience but once again, we do not doubt for a moment that the author's mother wears a haimet when preparing the evening meal. (Or maybe her mother is a biomedical engineer who has developed a serum that prevents any hair loss.) If bait is so appalling to you, maybe every individual aroum;l. the food should \simply tie their hair back\ Yes, this would have to include a11 students who come into the dining hall to eat. We understand that you may not have noticed that everyone employed at West does not have long hair. Yes, some of us have short hair and to simply tie our hair back would be impossible without the assistance of a creative beautician. Perhaps, a suggestion of baseball-like hats would have been a little more practical. May we select another quote, \It would only take a little more effort to make the dining halls cleaner and more sanitary ... \ You might consider the number. of trays left after each meal. We are sure the dishes would get much cleaner if they actually made it to the dishroom. For the many that obviously have hot yet located this establishment during their career at Union may we provide the service of directions. Starting at the toaster oven (we are, sure yon all know where it is) proceed 15 steps due west, turn right .at the corner, and there it is. It is easily recognizable by the two large Hairnets Can't Catch Everything. To the Editors: This letter is in response to the letter presented by Miss Scheinman in the April 20th edition of the paper. I don't want ta base my response on the· problems you noted. To me, they are ridiculous. I don't believe gloves are required by law: Other establishments do not require them. McGloves? Dishes, a few being dirty, hah! You neglected to mention that if one or two or even ten are dirty, that's not a bad number out of the mimy hundreds cleaned at each meal. I assure you that each dish is run through our dish machine. I'm sure that in your short-lived ·career as dishwasher/ restaurant critic you yourself have eaten off dirty dishes. Even my saintly mother occasionally misses a speck of dinner. Regarding the hair issue, agreed it is disgusting, but biological. Ha.irnets can't catch everything. Perhaps Union could hire a staff of Kojaks to make one feel better. Now for a few gripes of my own. You mentioned dirty dishes. Obviously you've never been around after a meal. Does the name \barnyard friends\ ring a bell? Yet, every morning, noon, and night the cafeteria is quite presentable. In fact, it almost looks as if adults had eaten there only hours before. Is it really too much to ask to pick up napkins, a tray, or leftover food? I guarantee that the student workers don't feel 'SO. Funny thing is, that in my four years I have never once gotten a tip. Perhaps I should work at Friendlys. Maybe it's the students who should wear gloves? I can't tell you how many students I've seen dive into the salad bar without the aid of utensils. Totally gross!! At least my hands are clean. I think some of tbe students need new clocks or watches. If after more than 20 weeks, the hours of operation are still hazy in the minds of some students, then perhaps Union should reinstate the S.A.T. I have even seen students not be able to comprehend a sign on the coffee machine that said simply~ \Out of Order.\ Once again, regarding the silverware issue. There are days I think you are lucky to even have silver. Students are notorious at misplacing knives, spoons, for~s, and glasses. :Either this is true or the dish machine \eats\ them. Yet, as I continue this letter, I see I'm stooping to the level of individuals who have written before me. There is definitely a lack of respect among students for the workers at·west. I rarely hear even so much as a \Thanks Believe it or not, West is run for the students. Specialty nights, ice cream novelties, a new microwave ... the list could go on. No one at the cafeteria expects. anything other than the courtesy that should be seen in the diners of tomorrow's future. Perhaps you that don't believe this could ex:ist in a world so cruel as the cafeteria should walt:z on over to upperclass dining. Hopefully, you'll make it oil your own next year. To those who play by the rules., I apologize for having accused you of malintellt, but to thpse of yott who I am speaking, GrowUpH Michael Glowacki ;89 APPLICATIONS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HOUSE ARE AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE (CC 405) .THE DEADLINE IS MONDAY, MAY 1ST! cylindrical bins (garbage cans) next .tQ it. If the lack .of .a sanitary environment is so offen~ive perhaps the students should do something about it instead Qf blaming someone else. · We have tWQ suggestions for Jessica and those of sinntar beliefs. One, that you should take a look at the other side of the issue and see that the wodd is not a perfect place, but that complaining about it in the schocl .newspaper is not going to solve the problem. Secondly; we strongly believe that if she worked at West for two weeks and at a n1inimal wage, that maybe she would have a better understanding of \vhai:she was taJkin~ about·· As you may have gathered, we work at West and were offended by· Jessica's letter in two respects. First, she made some very strong comments regarding the employees at West, without considering any body's feelings except her own, and· we think that an apology is in order to those people. Finally, we are also students, and it is embarrassing to admit that someone who was able to be accepted at Union is so blind to the real · wor1d (and the fact it)s not a perfect place). WAKE UP, YOU HAVE IT BETTER THAN MOST! Rosemary Lally '89 Jeanne. J3ouchard '89 for almost 100 years the Sierra Club has been fighting to protect the earth's fragile systems. We have sue· cessfu;liY lobbied for laws to Hmit .air and water pollution and to regulate poisonous toxic chemicals. We have won protection for swamps and meadows, rivers and mountains, deserts and prairies ... those natural places which permit the earth to heal and renew itself. We have consistently · been an effective voice for a world healthful for all its inhabitants. Sierra Club, 730 Polk Street. San Francisco, CA g!no9

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 LETTERS Wake Up: You Have It Better Than Most To the Editors: In response to last week's letter addressing the unsanitary conditions of West Dining Hall we have a \few\ objections with the author's complaints. To q11ote the letter, \Have you ever picked up a bowl or spoon that looks like it was never cleaned?\ May we return this with another eqHally valid questom, \Have you ever thought about putting it in the dishroom, and getting another one?\ We've been led to believe that Jessica in her infinite wisdom has never come across a dirty bow I or spoon in her household. Jessica implies that West is the onlr place that a dish may not get cleaned properly. We really hate to be the one to burst your bubble but even in other eating establishments they may not get all their dishes clean. There are a few things we would like to point out (to all patrons of West). 1. Have you ever tried to clean dishes for 500, 19 and 20 year olds, who assume that this task is done by an \inhuman machine\ that doesn't mind doing it. Well, here is probably an eye opener for you. Some hard-working people at West clean up after you. 2. If people are really bothered by dirty silverware we suggest that you bring your own. Obviously, people have their \own\ considering that during a 7-week:. peiod West went \through\ 45 dozen knives, 36 dozen forks, 34.6 dozen spoons and 18.9 cases of glasses (and we are liiOt talking plastic). Even if considering that about 30 glasses are broken a week ty accident that leaves 1,158 glasses thatjust got up and walJked out of West. 3. Maybe West is not a four star restaurant but considering what the employees have to work and deal with, they do a good job. They should be commended, not ridiculed by ilildividuals who have never worked there. 4. Also, if you have a complaint about a situation with something in West, have yoa ever thought about talking to someone who may be able to do something about it instead of just complaining? (This method has been proven to work! Example: the microwave.)From our understanding, you (Jessica) have never mentioned this to any of the managers at West, or students who work there. In regards to the hair net issue, we are sure that we all would agree that to find someone's hair in our food is not a particularly pleasant experience but once again, we do not doubt for a moment that the author's mother wears a haimet when preparing the evening meaL (Or maybe her mother is a biomedical engineer who has developed a serum that prevents any hair loss.) If hair is so appalling to you, maybe every individual around the food should \simply tie their hair back.\ Yes, this would have to include all students who come into the dining hall to eat. We understand that you may not have noticed that everyone employed at West does not have long hair. Yes, some of us have s hart hair and to simply tie our hair back would be impossible without the assistance of a creative beautician. Perhaps, a s1:1ggestion of baseball-like hats would have been a little mot:e practical. May we select another quote, \It would only take a little more effort to make the dining halls cleaner and more sanitary ... \ You might consider the number of trays left after each meal. We are sure the dishes would get much cleaner if they actually made it to the dishroom. For the many that obviously have not yet located this establishment during their career at Union may we provide the service of directions. Starting at the toaster oven (we are. sure you all know where it is) proceed 15 steps due west, turn right at the comer, and there it is. It is easily recognizable by the two large Hairnets Can't Catch Everything To the Editors: This letter is in response to the letter presented by Miss Scheinman in the April 20th edition of the paper. I don't want to base my response on the problems you noted. To me, they are ridiculous. I don't believe gloves are required by law. Other establishments do not require them. McGloves? Dishes, a few being dirty, hah! You neglected to mention that if one or two or even ten are dirty, that's not a bad number out of the many hundreds cleaned at each meal. I assure you that each dish is run through our dish machine. I'm sure that in your short-lived career as dishwasher/ restaurant critic you yoarself have eaten off dirty dishes. Even my saintly mother occasionally misses a speck of dinner. Regarding the hair issue, agreed it is disgusting, but biological. Haimets can't catch everything. Perhaps Union could hire a staff of Koj aks to make one feel better. Now for a few gripes of my own. You mentioned dirty dishes. Obviously you've never been around after a meal. Does the name \barnyard friends\ ring a bell? Yet, every morning, noon, and night the cafeteria is quite presentable. In fact, it alm()st looks as if adults had eaten there only hours before. Is it really too much to ask to pick up napkins, a tray, or leftover food? I guarantee that the student workers don't feel so. Funny thing is, that in my four years I have never once gotten a tip. Perhaps I should work at Friendlys. Maybe it's the students who should wear gloves? I can't tell you how many students I've seen dive into the salad bar without the aid of utensils. Totally gross!! At least my hands are clean. I think some of the students need new clocks or watches. If after more than 20 weeks, the hours of operation are still hazy in the minds of some students, then perhaps Union should reinstate the S.A.T. I have even seen students not be able to comprehend a sign on the coffee machine that said simply, \Out of Order.\ Once again, regarding the silverware issue. There are days I think you are lucky to even have silver. Students are notorious at misplacing knives, spoons, forks, and glasses. Either this is true or the dish machine \eats\ them. Yet, as I continue this letter, I see I'm stooping to the level of individuals who have written before me. There is definitely a lack. of respect among students for the workers at West. I rarely hear even so much as a \Thanks Believe it or not, West is run for the students. Specialty nights, ice cream novelties, a new microwave ... the list could go on. No one at the cafeteria expects anything other than the courtesy that should be seen in the diners of tomorrow's future. Perhaps you that don't believe this could exist in a world so cruel as the cafeteria should waltz on over to upperclass dining. Hopefully, you'll make it on your own next year. To those who play by the rules, I apologize for having accused you of malintent, but to those of you who I am speaking, Grow Up!! Michael Glowacki '89 APPLICATIONS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HOUSE ARE AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE (CC 405) THE DEADLINE IS MONDAY, MAY 1ST! cylindrical bins (garbage cans) next to i:t. If the lack of a sanitary environment is so offensive perhaps the students should do something about it instead of blaming someone else. We have two suggestions for Jessica and those of similar befiefs. One, that you should take a look at fhe other side of the issue and see that the world is mot a perfect place, but that complaining about it in the school newspaper is not going to solve the problem. Secondly, we strongly believe that if she worked at West for two weeks and at a minimal wage, that maybe she would have a better understanding of \vhat she was talking about. As you may have gathered, we work at West and were offended by Jessica's letter in tW{) respects. First, slle made some very strong comments regarding the ~mployees at West, without considering anybody's feelings except her own, and we think that lln ai)ology is in order to those people. Finally, we are also students, and it i.s em.barrassing to admit that ~omeone who was able to be accepted at Union is so bJ,incl to the real world (and tlle fact it, is not a perfect place). WAKE U:P, YOU HAVE IT BETTER THAN MOST! R<Jsemary Lally '89 Jemne Bouchard '89 for almost 100 years the Sierra Club has been fighting to protect the earth's fragile systems. We have suc- cessfu.lly lobbied for laws to limit air and water pollution and to regulate poisonous toxic chemicals. We have won protection for swamps and meadows, rivers and mountains, deserts and prairies ... those natural places which permit the earth to heal and renew itself. We have consistently been an effective voice for a world healthful for all its inhabitants. Sierra Club, 730 Polk Street, San f'randsco, CA 94109 g ... ·. \i11P•·· .. ' .. : ·.•· •.. ~· ;~]Q'• .,· . ll .. •.·· · ·~.· •· ··l't.·U...o ·: : ' -:- -- . . - ~- . ~ -.- . jl, ,, 'l. H ( i

CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 13 Honor Code Written In Stone To the Editors: sign. and reaffmn. The second problem is that students must Recently there · has been report anyone who has violated much talk rCOilcernig the . this code. Shouldn't it be the creation of an Honor Code at responsibility of the student Union. In an article in W.ho does it himself? Isn't that Co~ncordie·nsis during.· the the Whole idea behind an Honor jlear the Student Forum stated COde? lf students actually want that \.. .. any form of honor such a code, they should be code adopted by Union must be responsible to themselves and seen as a written affirmation by if they do violate the code, they the ·students pledging should turn themselves in. themselves to academic Otherwise what kind of system honesty.\ I certainly agroo that d<> webave? What's the point? Union College should adopt an · A third problem with this honor code. However, this code proposal is that the accused should not be one written· in student has the right of appeal stone--or anywhere for that ta the administration. matter. By its inherent However, in the previously meaning, an Honor :code cited article written by Dan should do just that--honor the Waible, :he states, ,;Any form student, Not require him to of 'honor code ... must not be sign an affirmation. An Honor seen as a law imposed by the Code based on the need to 'have faculty and administration, but something in writing' is an rather a self-impo~ed honor code not worth having at affirmation by the students.\ If all. True, it may be effective it is sup·posed to be when seen from the outside; independ.ent of the but when dissected, it would be administration, why shquld the seen as a controlling factor to administration be the final the student. It would not allow appellate source. · the student the freedom to Another less drastic problem, \rea/finn moral and intellectual which may cause h!lvoc once in commitment to maintaining a effect. is what is meant by .,productive atmosphere at cheating? Is it GOpying on a Union\ -- as the Forum says. test; plagiarizing; copying I don't want it to seem as if notes; borrowing labs? This .I'm against an Honor Code; would have to be· more clearly because actually I'm a strong de:fined. supporter of it. But to force Hopefully the Student students {Whether by faculty or Forum will amend the s~~~e~lS\t~mseLves)·;tQ.- -··<eJ)r.oR9.sed~-lio~o:r,-<;0<f~ .. ap.4. r~-. that they must adhere to the submit it to the student body code is self-defeating. A code for approval. An Honor Code based on integrity, true at Union would certainly be an honesty, and a commitment by improvement; however, to be the students to better their successful, it must be different education is the only kind that frorn the one proposed. At least willsucceed. we're beaded· in the right · Also with the recent direction--and I commend the publication of the proposed creators and pEoponents of it Honor Code, one is able to 8ee for being ·cocerned wit the many problems _arising. The betterment of Union. first involves something already discussed--the need to . . Sincerely, Peter Katz '91 The Great Adventure for only $5.00:? Date: Sunday, May 21 Time: 6 am· 11 pm . . S'ocial Alternative.s is sponst>ring a trip to · ·The Great · Adventure . Amusement Park in New_Jersey. We invite ·au to join us. Sign-up for tickets wilJ-occur ~ro~ ·May 1 to- May 3 at the. College Center; Tickets will be sold on a. first-come .. first-serve basis ·so please get your tickets early as only 150 are available. Check postings for exact times to purchase. your ticket. There will he free transportation. More . information wil be given at the time of · ticket purchase. Hopeyoujoin us!! LETTERS Delta Upsilon Asks ''Whose campus is this anyway?\ To the Editors: ])uring the past two weeks,. a . maj>Qrity of the Union Colfege community has shown strong .sup}lort for the Union chapter of Delta Upsilon to secure canipus residency .. In mat short time, almost 1 ,500 members of $e campus, almost three quarters of the entire student hotly has .signed petitions in . fav()r of Delta Upsilon's oldest ch!tpter regaining campus housing. In addition to this, . certain members cf the faculty , . and staff have also demonstrated their support to · us, some by adding their names to our petitions. This p~rcentage of favorable res:ponses is an obvious renection of our fellow stu-dents; regard for Delta Upsilon. As a result <>f violating · soc:ial probation in the fall of 1986, we were expelled from campus housing in the fall of tha.t year. This decision also · stated we would be allowed to re•apply for campl.:ls residency · in two years. We feel that we hav.e more than paid our penance and certainly deserve · th~ opportunity. Unfortunately, a small fraction ·Of Union's administration works against our return. And the underlying reason is a 1 in gering reputation .. Judging our current brotherhood by the actions of past brothers is · not only extremely unfair, but also jeopardizes our chance to fully e·njoy the Union College experience. Furthermore, it is not only an insult to all greek societies on campus, besidess the rest .of the college community, it is aa insult to our more than 600 Delta Upsilon AlHmni from Union College. During the past two years, ()Ur fraternity has repeatedly pmven its resilience. Proof of this is the doubling our membrship since 1986, <liversification of our brotherhood, and by taking the lead in Delta Upsilon operations on a national level. Furthermore, at a meeting of · the Interfraternity Council of Union College, the fratemiHes of our campus agreed unanimously to support our petition to regain viable campus housing. We are very proud of our 150 year history on this campus and we feel that fratemities in general are a major part of any college community, especially ours. Besides providing a social outlet for the student, they also enhance a bond between men that continues long after graduation. Without a doubt, this dose kniuedncss and c0hcsion plays an important role in future endowments to Un.ion. If the student looks back upon his college years fondly, he is much more likely to support his alma r:natcr. Of the \cducati0n\ that a man lakes with him from Union C()Hcgc, only a small portion of thi~s takes place in the classroom. Lastly, Delta Upsilon appreciates the strong show of support from the Union College student body. We only hope the small portion of administrators who arc against oru return evaluate the basis for their judgment. They are not pmviding much of a model for liberal thinking by basing their decision on the past. Sincerely, The Brothers of Delta Upsilon Have Your Opinion Count Vote Friday Concerning the HONOR CODE PROPOSAL • the . In College Center .. (-

Honor Code Written In Stone To the Editors: Recently there has been much talk concernig the creation of an Honor Code at Union. In an article in Conco·rdiensis during the year the Student Forum stated that \... any form of honor code adopted by Union must be seen as a written affirmation by the students pledging themselves to academic honesty.\ I certainly agree that Ulilion College should adopt an honor code. However, this code should not be one written in stone--or anywhere for that matter. By its inherent meaning, an Honor Code should do just that--honor the student. Not require him to sign an affirmation. An Honor Code based on the need to 'have something in writing' is an honor code not worth having at all. True, it may be effective when seen from the outside; but when dissected, it would be seen as a controlling factor to the student. It would not allow the student the freedom to \reaffinn moral and intellectual commitment to maintaining a productive atmosphere at Union\ -- as the Forum says. I don't want it to seem as if I'm against an Honor Code; because actually I'm a strong supporter of it. But to force students (whether by faculty or students themselves) to sign that they must adhere to the code is self-defeating. A code based on integrity, true honesty, and a commitment by the students to better their education is the only kind that will succeed. Also with the recent publication of the propose<l Honor Code, one is able to see many problems arising. The first involves somethinl! already discussed--the need to sign and reaffum. The second pFoblem is that students must report anyone who has violated this code. Sh.ouldn't it be the responsibiLity of the student who does it ilimse1f? Isn't bhat the whole idea behind an Honol' Ccxle? If students actually waN.t such a code. they slilould be responsible to themselves and if they do violate the code, they should turn; themselves in. Otherwise what kind of systeJn do we have? What's the point? A third problem with this proposal is that the ace Hsed student has tbe right of appeal to the admiaistration. However. in the previously cited article written by Dan Waible, he states, \Any fom1 of honor code ... must not be seen as a law imposed by the faculty and administration, but rather a self-imposed affirmation by the students.\ If it is supposed to be in depend e n t o f t h e administration, why should the administration be the final appellate source. Another less drastic problem, which may cause havoc once in effect, is what is meant by cheating? Is it copying on a test; plagiarizing; copying notes; borrowing labs? This would have to be more clearly defined. Hopefully the Student Forum will amend the proposed Honor Code and re- submit it te the student body for approval. An Honor Code at Union would certainly be an improvement; however, to be successful, it must be different from the one proposed. At least we're headed in the right direction--and I commend the creators and proponents of it for being cocerned wit the betterment ()f Union. Sincerely, Peter Katz '91 The Great Adventure for only $5.00? Date: Sunilay, May 21 Til'l'le: 6 am - 11 pm Social Alternatives is sponsoring a trip to The Great Adventure Amusement Park in New Jersey. We invite all to join l.LS. Sign-up for tickets wil~ occur from May 1 to May 3 at the College Center. Tickets wi1l be sold on a first-come-first-serve basis so please get your tickets early as only 150 are available. Check postings for exact times to purchase your ticket. There will be free tTansportation. More information wil be given at the time of ticket purchase. Hope:youjoin us!! CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Delta Upsilon Asks \Whose campus is this anyway?\ To the Editors: During the past two weeks, a majority of the Unioa College comn1uni:ty has shown strong support for the Union chapter of Delta Upsilon to secure campus residency. In that short time, almost 1 ,500 members of the campus, almost three quarters of the entire student body has signed petitions i:n favor of Delta Upsilon• s oldest chapter regaining campus housing. In addition to this, certain members of the faculty and staff have also demonstrated their support to us, some by adding their names to our petitions. This percentage of favorable responses is an obvious reflection of our fellow students' regard for Delta Upsilon. As a result of violating social probation in the fall of 1986, we were expelled from · campus housing in tbe fall of that year. This decision also stated we would be al:lowed to re-apply for campus tesidency in two years. We feel that we have more than paid our penance and certain! y deserve the opportunity. Unfortunately, a small fraction of Union's administration works against our return. And the underlying reason is a Ungcring reputation. Judging our current brotherhood by the actions of past brothers Is not only extremely unfair, but also jeopardizes our chance to fully enjoy the Union College experience. FHrthcrmore, it is not only an insult to all greek societies on campus, bcsidess the rest of the college community, it is an insult to our more than 600 Delta Upsilon Alumni from Union College. During the past two years, our fraternity has repeatedly proven its resilience. Proof of this is the doubling our membrship since 1986, diversification of our brotherhood, and by taking the lead in Delta Upsilon operations on a national level. Ftuthcrmore, at a meeting of the Interfraternity Council of Union College, the fraternities of our campus agreed unanimously to support our petition to regain viable campus housing. We are very proud of our 150 year history on this campus and we feel th<lt fraternities ia general arc a major part of any college commu11ity, especially OlilfS. Besides providing a social outlet for the stu-<lcmt, they also enhance a bo!ld between men that continues long after graduation. Without a doubt, this close kt1i ltedncss and cohcsio11 plays ~n important role in future c11dowments to Union. If the 5Ludcnt looks back t!pon his c ollcge years fondly, he is mu'h more likely to support his ;llma mater. Of the \cducatio n ., that a man takes with him from Union College, only a small portion of this takes polacc in the classroom. Lastly, Delta Upsi I on appreciates the sl.rong show of support from the Union College student lKJdy. We only hope the smilll portion of administrator~ v.ho arc against our return cvai~Le the basis for their judgment. They arc not providing mucll: of a model for liberal thinking h y basing their decision on th~ pa-;t. Sincerely, The Brothers of Delta Upsilon Have Opinion Your Count Vote Friday Concerning the HONOR CODE PROPOSAL • the lll College Center

Page 14 . CONCORDlENSlS Apri'l 27, 1989 ' ,. :m=.l.~£_;=. ~~-------------------------------- ARTS & ENTERTAINME'NT r I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I , King Rises from the Grave in ''Pet s,ematary''' How old is this baby now anyway? Is she walking yet? Does she speak? If w, Frenclt or Castillian? How long can this ridiculous missing baby/psychic plot go on??'! ------- ·-- ·---- ·-, THE NEW 8.97 I Charles Schultz once said \Happiness is a warm I puppy\. If that's the case, this year's Fitzhugh I Ludlow performers hav.e puppies to spare. The 1 duo have skyrocketed to the top, with impressive debuts by Joe Jackson and the Indigo Girls .I barking at their hee.ls. A special Milkbone goes to 1 the Cure for keeping in the t.op five without the support of an entire album. Bow Wow. Thank you. I 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8.97 Artist Miracle Legion The Cult The Indigo Girls Joe Jackson The Cure 12\ Drivil\l' and cryin' House of Freaks Robyn Hitchcock Pixies Title Me & Mr. Ray Sonic Temple \The .Indigo Girls Blaze of Glory \Fascination St.\ Mystery Road Tantilla Queen Elvis Doolittle· Label I Rough Trade Beggar's Banqu~t EpiC A&M Elektra Island Rhino A&M Elektra Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week: \God Is A Bullet\ - Coronete Blonde Notes: Baseball! Baseball! Baseball! Tune into the Dutchmen's Sports Network for more. By CAMERON KENNY Pet S,ematary h as everything: eerie cemeteries, the living de·ad, wierd neighbors, and a virtual banquet of gruesome ,, blo0dy deaths. Although the acting is weak and the special effects are not particularly extraordinary, tile. film delivers some pretty decent horror. Pet Semata:ry is the first Stephen King movie for wltich King himself wrote the screenplay, so it's significantly better than most of the ethers that have been adapted to the screen. King is actually in the film (as a prjest), [()()king slightly wigged as usual. The story centers around Louis Creed, a doctor who moves his family to Maine and basically watches his life fall apart. On the first day of his new job, a young jogger.- who has been hit by a l1llck (hard)~­ is dragged into Louis' office with his brains running all over the place. And that's just the beginn·ing. The doctor also has a beautiful wife (who saffers from some strange and mysterious death-trauma), .and two kids~ one of which is an adorable five-year-old who's about to go through some hard times. The Creed's new dream Muse is perched on a 'highway, down which enormous tractor trailers rumble at high speeds about every five . minutes. From there on in, the movie is just basically a death-fest, with people dying and resurrecting in quick succession.. Anc;l, as the advertisement says, sometimes dead is better. The only thing that doesn't quite cut it about Pet S emat.ary is the acting, which is pretty stiff and fairly amateurish. The Httle girl, a psychic of sorts, is particularly irritating, but the little boY, Gage, is adorable and does a great job. Fred Gwynne plays the neighbor, Jud Crandall, and compared to the rest of the cast, he's probably the best actor in the group (which is probably a sad commentary in APRIL 28th itself). Gwynne, however, will ;probably suffer from the taint of.his Munster..,past forever; It's hwd to even look at the guy without expecting bot:ts to pop out ofhis neck. Aside from the acting, though~ everything ,else basically works. Most of the sets are great, and exactly like those in the book. The actual pet . cemetery in particular is .perfect. - Pet . Se·QI:atary isn't a great movie. lt's not above some cheap scares (like a cat jumping· out of a tree), but it's a decent horror flkk that delivers. If yon're a Stephen King fan, and you've seen the junkers like \Christine\, \Maximum Ov.erdrive\ o:r \Cujo!' (far and away the worst\ • watching a dog drool and foam for two hollfs), then Pet Sema tary is definitely worth checking out. It's at least as good as \Cartie\, but pro,bably not as good as \The Shining';. Even if you're not particularly wild about King, but you like horror, go see Pet Scmatary. The Palace Theatre .. Presents The W ailers & Third World· · TICKETS $19 Available at the Palace Theater Box Office (465-4663) or at Drum Sound Comments about WRUC programming? Jaw with I Jared, our Program Manager, at ext. 4400. I I I I I I I I I I L---- .... .- __ .._ _____ J UNION COLLEGE Department of the Arts presents PHOTOGRAPHER, THOMAS ROMA Visting Artist Lecture · Wednesday, May 3, 1·989 7:30 p.m. Room 21,5 Arts Building

Page 14 CONCORDlENSIS April 27, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINME-NT King Rises from the Grave in \Pet Sematary\ S,OAP OPERA REVIEW By KRISTIE ARNHOLD Santa Barbara Most frequently altere<'lhairstyie; Celeste Character who has been replaced by a different ~ctress. most over the last year: Kelly (at least she resembles Eden} and appears to have added to her brain eell count as well). '· \Lost without Love\ character: Sophia. Will she try to win C. C.'s affectioos, go bar hopping with T J., or find anoth.e.r man wllo goes by his initials? Most b1nniliating and un,j;ustified attempt at suicide: Sandta . . Worst disguise of a recent pregnancy: Eden~ that baby blumper •.. ·• just won't go away!! Character who does not belong in a soap: Mason's secretary, stick m the Whitesnake videos, honey, you look much better on top of the Jaguar. Worst attempt at trying to fool hardcore soap viewers; YOU CAN'T FOOL US, THAT NEW CHARACTER IS REALLY ZACK WITH BLONDE HAIR!! Pressing question of the week, month, and possibly the year. Where in the world is Adriana? How oJd is this baby now anyway? Is she walking yet? Does she speak? If so, French or Castillian? How long can this ridiculous missing baby/psychic plot go on??? r--------------, I THE NEW 8.97 I I I Charles Schultz once said \Happiness is a warm By CAMERON KENNY Pet Se.matary h as everything: eerie cemeteries, the living dead, wierd neighbors, and a virtual banquet of gruesome , bloody deaths. Although the acting is weak and the special effects are not particularly extraordinary, the film deiivers some pretty decent horror. Pet Sematary is the first Stephen King movie for which King himself wrote the screenplay, so it's significantly better than most of the others that have been adapted to the screen. King is actually in the film (as a priest), looking slightly wigged as usual. The story centers around Louis Creed, a doctor who moves his family to Maine and basically watches his life fall apart. On the first day of his new job, a young jogger-- who has been hit by a truck (hard)-- is dragged into Louis' office with his brains running all over the place. And that's just the beginning. The doctor also mas a beautiful wife (who suffers from some strange and mysterious death-tnuma), and two kids, one of 'Which is an adorable five-yea:r-old who's about to go through some hard times. The Creed's new dream house is perched on a highway, down which enorrnGus tractor trailers rumble at hi~gh speeds about every five minutes. From there on in, the movie is just basically a death-fest, with people dying and resurrecting in quick succession. And, as the advertisement says, sometimes dead is better. The only thing that doesn't quite cut it about Pet Sematary h the acting, which is pretty stiff aRd fairly amateurish. The J,ittle girl, a psychic of sorts, is particularly irritating, but t.he 'Httle boy, Gage, is adora~le and does a great job. Fred (}wynne plays the neighbor, Jud Crandall, and compared to the rest of the cast, he's probably the best actor in the gr<lup (which is probably a sad commentary in APRIL 28th itself). Gwynne, however, will probably suffer from the taint of his Munster-past forever. It's nard to even look at the guy without expecting bolts to pop out of his neck. Aside from me acting, though, everything else basically works. Most of the sets are great, and exactly like those in the book. The actual pet cemetery in particular is perfect. Pet S.ematary isn't a great movie. It's not above some cheap scares (like a cat jumping out of a tree), but it's a decent horror flick that delivers. If you're a Stephen King fan, and you've seen the junkers like \Christine\, \Maximum Overdrive\ or \Cujo\ (far and away the worst- - watching a dog drool and foam for two hours), then Pet Semata-ry is definitely worth checking out. It's at least as good as \Carrie\, but probably not as good as \The Shining\. Even if you're not particularly wild about King, but you like horror, go see Pet Sematary. I puppy\. If that's the case, this year's Fitzhugh I I Ludlow performers have puppies to spare. The 1 du() have skyrocketed to the top, with impressive I debuts by Joe Jackson and the Indigo Girls I The Palace Theatre I barking at their heels. A special Milkbone goes to 1 the Cure for keeping in the top five without the I support of an entire album. Bow Wow. Thank you. I 1 Artist Title Label I I 1. Miracle Legion Me & Mr. Ray Rough Trade I 2. The Cult Sonic Temple Beggar's Ban~u~t 3. The Indigo Girls The Indigo Girls p1c I I 4. Joe Jackson Blaze of Glory A & M 5. The Cure 12\ \Fascination St.\ Elektra I 6. Drivin' and cryin' Mystery Road Island 1 7. House of Freaks Tantilla Rhino 8. Robyn Hitchcock Queen Elvis A & M I 1 8.97 Pixies Doolittle Elektra I Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week: 1 \God Is A Bullet\ - Coronete Blonde I I I Notes: 1 Baseball! Baseball! Baseball! Tune into the Presents The W ailers & Third World · TICKETS $19 I Dutchmen's Sports Network for more. I I Comments about WRUC programming? Jaw with 1 1 I Jared, our Program Manager, at ext. 4400. Available at the Pal ace Theater Box Office ( 465-4663) or at Drum Sound L--------------J UNION COLLEGE Department of the Arts presents PHOTOGRAPHER, THOMAS ROMA Visting Artist Lecture Wednesday, May 3, 1989 7:30 p.m. Room 215 Arts Building . ' i.\ ,I I u t I \

.. CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Pagtl 15 \:' .. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT. ''It was a. dark and stormy .night . ,, • • By DINA SCHWEITZER Assoc. Arts Editor While the title may sound ominous; an evening of four one-act plays, being performed in Union's Nott Memorial May 10-13, promises more than rain. The rpoduction of these plays stems .from Montebaflks' play writing contest held during last term. After the directors chose , the Winning scripts they discovered that each phly carried with it a theme of rain; hence the production title, \it was a dark and stormy night .... \ The contest's ultimate purpose was to produce on the .stage the winning selections; andas a result, the directors have · decided to produce four student written plays which range from the dramatically profound to hysterical 'Parody. The four one-act plays which are to be performed are \Snipes\, written by Katie Boyd; \October 16,. 2089~', by Jan Berlage; \One Woman\ written by Carolyn Dunn;. and \Self-Portrait\, by Melissa Bloom. These plays are written, directed, and acted by students. In fact, accorqing to tbe Montebanks president, Melissa Bloom, \the whole ptoject is focused on working w·ith and learning from other students.~· Moreover, those students who have worked on other Montebanks productions are now teaching new students the \ropes\ and as a resu It, more students are getting 'involved in the theatre. The production stems from student involvement; thus, its success rests with the cooperation of everyone involved in and behind the scene~. In fact, the directors of Montebank.s have set down two The Department of the Arts is conducting a reappointment review for Thomas Ross, assistant . ' professor of the arts. Any member of the college community who wishes ·to contribute written or oral testimony about Prof. Ross' teaching, professional activities and college service activities may contact Professor Hilary._ Tann in the Arts Building (Ext. 6566). specific rules; a writer cannot direct his/her own play, and the director ofa play cannot change the script without a writer's consent. Consequently, the production will be very cn;ative with input from a variety of sources. On Wednesday, May 10, the show wiU open; but if you don't have a ticket you'll miss it altogether. That's why it is imperative to go directly to the N ott box office starting Monday, May 1. This performance, beginning at 8 pm.., will be an exciting show .to take yout parents to during the evenng hours of parent's. weekend. So get a ticket {$3 for students, $4 for faculty, and $5 for others), and don't forget· tobring your umbrellas .•. ! ltCIU,iRit;J.~ !l': A positive weekend is on the horizon. However, llllilii'l'liu'rno•·,.. bio<JY:fr&e pflnmxieants for )'OU may gf.lt yourself in an \'•t*ittlt1rrtts;sing · situation-be &$pach:dly careful Saturday Red Scorpion Pet Semetery The Rescuers Dead Calm Fltech Lives She's Out of Control Major League -:::\ See You in the Morning Dream Team Pet Semetery Speed Zone Say Anything Disorganized Crime Rain Man CallTheaters for Show Times .. TONIGHT · (Thurs.) FREE MOVIE! AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL PRESENTS: 7:00 P.M. 4th Floor Lounge of CC I

:I CONCORDIENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ---------------------------------------------------------------- - \It was a dark and stormy night . • • ,, By D;INA !SCHWEITZER Assoc. tA Tts Editor While the nitle may sound ominotts, an .elifening of four one-act play~,. b·eing performed in. Union's N\ortt Memorial May 10-13, prow.is.es more than rain. The rp0·cluction of these plays stems .frro·m Montebanks' play writimg contest held during last rterm. After the directors cilos e , the winning scripts the:Y discovered that each play c~rried with it a theme of rain; hence tlle production title, \It was a <lark: and s.tonmy night. .. \ The contest's ulltirnate purpose was to produce c:>n the stage the winning se:l~ctions; and as a result,. the directors have decided to pradu.ce four .student written plays which range from the dramatic:a11y profound to hysterical p.aPody. The four orne-act plays which ltre to be performed are \Snipes\, written by Katie Boyd; \October 16, 2089\ by fan Berlage;. \One Woman\ \\ritten by Ca.Folyn Dunn; and '\Self-Portrait\, by Melissa Bloom. These plays are written, d:i:r.ected, and acted by students. In fact, according to the Montebarrks president, Melissa Bloom, \the whole project is focused on working with and learning from other students .. \ Moreover, those students who have worked on other Montebanks productions are now teaching new students the \ropes\ and as a result, more students are getting involved in the theatre. The production stems from student involvement; thus, its success rests wi tll the cooperation of everyone involved in and behind the scenes. In fact, the directors of Montebanks have set down two specific rules; a writer cannot direct his/her own play, and the director of a play cannot change the script without a writer's consent. Consequently, the production wiU be very creative with input from a variety of sources. On Wednesday, May 10, the show will open; but if you don't have a ticket you'll miss it altogether. That's why it is imperative to go directly to the Nott box office starting Monday, May 1. This performance, beginning at 8 pm., will be an exciting show to take yo1:1r parents to during the evenng hours of parent's weekend. So get a ticket ($3 for students, $4 for faculty, and $5 for others), and don't forget to bring your umbrellas ... ! · · 4 .··.· .. · -·&··. · ..•. ·--. ·E·. B·· .. ·.·r···J··e:.'f. ·s n, '- .. ·- .. _:· :.:- .. ·_. -:-:-,_-:·-_·._.·_._- __ 583-&02Z ·TJin···.o:··c;a;;l'.!i~'ei}l•'l<tii•iit''M· ~~fi.~·~·•·':A:ic·Jrit,._\\'\\':t;: ... , · '\\\··i!>d\l · • -.. 1 1..\\ l.~n a tT-ac1~ .r ., i¥~~~::J!iiJ~~tl _-. · _:~u.--~~~,~-:~~tfi.:·-:_~~~-~'- :.~,..:.:~&.~-- -~-,'tQ-?;~ta.~=--,_'_ .. ---ro1:: -_\'.~ .;, writing lrl:lpicalj sum~M11es f~ntinis;t*s~~s .... itfi\tne r . t motilt of humor. · ... S~t~, .I::JO\'~fl~o~ !()Ids: $oto -~~-·'with . bl1ttegrass background . . -~-<:· .. :;=:~:: ,- ·;;;~,-~\.' -~~ J •':• ~:=~- ,::~:;_.::·:~;:: ·: :,:,:; ,-~r_-.i;;+·::;.~,~t\:i::;:: :-,:·~~:~<-~~:· ·.-:.~~:''~~~--~ :~~- ''. =~-- . =· ... =. -:·~- ;__ : - c; -,- • -:. -~-. •.···.'.:.JI;@~··:~'~'~lJQf!~:~~:~·-·t!l~~~':;s;F·· ··· · \ f;r,l~, · $t1~~~ fte :.firates _;{jf: Pei-~<;l):: \;!IiQats. are $5 and the show begins at 8 n xx ~ · · , · . . Jr..~,- ~Yl: ~ . , ~ ': ~ . ~ . ' 462-4534 F'ri., Slitt:;,c,Sun.,~~dfitmigra.n.i: About Russian Jewish immigrants who settlecl m Texas. Call foi'ti6ket infonnation. Pala-ce Theatre, Albany 465-4663 Fri.~ TI'ntlr:d Wcdd &. Tile Wailers: Tickets, $19, and still available at the Palace mJ«px cfnce or Drt:mn. Sound in Albany. Union College \A\ '·Y~Iil~'\lS:· Us•e tha· Cd'i'ning ·w<tiJak to organiz$ yours&.lt ' a~ti~nl~!fr:lt}W.oulo'behetpfuf in ·avery a$peet if you kept your ~j)rJit,1(1t:Ws 'tll~t?f·a~ntflal....,.;tf'leir power· ov·er you is pot0ntiaHy ·'• s-ett~s-uotjv-el .· ·. , ·· ... ··.· . . ,e.eM•• fftl~~-YPt.tr.Jn$tiQe.t$ this we$k. if th~y warn you to . avoif\Ji(;l@f,t@.il04i~P@I!;~J,,~~~!qns. Stop tryin9 so hard to find love, as ; , . gyou. .,; .~ ... · ... · .. ·. . ......... ··•· ... · .· .. Yt>'ti 'have been flndlng your love life nil : ~~~~a~~t~-6~~-n~t~lrt~ ab~utyoursearchfor romance in ' ' ;~.h .... e' .. ··. \ .. t{Jh·t·····. w .. · .. ay>l 'Rn .... a:w .. . · you .. r·.l. lb .... fdo t& making it difficult to walt, but •. S®fr~utwiH ~ind the; teettthrng. · 'LEO: Stop cttdng what others think .of you! Follow your · ~nstlnots and .ig.r~Pf$ :tJthers~ advioo, Tha worst that could come out O'f:.afly,~itu,ti;tlon is a learned lesson. Your heart will guide you to J~:AJ~noe,. . . . . \11\~~=. f:f Y91l att~m.pt to spread yourself to thin this week · .. ~h . wor~.,l~ ~~rnsd, the result wiU be a lot of aggravation ·. <llnf}, .·.· .... prcid~ct]vity; Gemini may play key role In new romance. ••. LIBJ{A.: Vo!lr.fioldE!nass may get· you into some siicky ; :situations;. YQ!U: bke tcdwelgh all possibilities, but do not take too ; .• J0:mg'tJ> d:'$¢[d~. 1'!11$ W®-filk·rn~e your move or ft m:ay be too late. . ' S~OIPlO: l'll~tre w \that 'Mr. or Mrs. Right' $on:unvhere on ~-. ·-p~~···· . e' ... ·.• . . . P.erha~ where y.Q.u least expect IHn t ;YtlV:J: · • ~tf ··. :cn:ass. Be · op~n miMed to crossing . . . T:\he way for you 1o fi!ndthe love of your life is •....... if1$Ydt,lrpartn'(!jr'srespeot and friendship. ff all you , . . ··. · .. ··. ~~·f..ot'is a soodtaJ release, rathar than playing with · · 'SQtrrQ<)ne~s·mlfld 1 • laywlth yourself. ; ';· ···· i$ h:ete at'ldlove ls in the air. Take: . \' ··... ·.. · .. ·• · ... ··•·· ... · ~ltfbt s~hts on Union's campus to · ''t<l'mnce too~son .Q.f y6ur desit$9. Don't be afraid to go a little wild. AQUARIUS: A positive weekend is on the horizon. However, keap your bo<:ly free of intoxicants for you may gat yourseH io an .embarrassing situation-be especially careful Saturday evenlng. PISCES: This week is a time tor contemplation. You have a big decision to make a.n<i the wrong choice will cost you dearly. Take responalbl!ity f{)r your actions and all will work itself out. ARIES: It may be time to take another look at a relationship you .had always ttloaght was completely platonic. Perhaps you have been looklng in the wrong places. Morning Pet Semetery Dream Team The Rescuers Pet Semetery Dead Calm Speed Zone Fltech Lives Say Anything She's Out of Disorganized Control Crime Major League Rain Man Call Theaters for Show Times. The Department of the Arts is condlucting a reappointment review for Thomas Ross, assistant prof.essor of the arts. Any member of fhe college community who wis.tnes to contribute written or oral testimony about Prof. Ross' TONIGHT teachlng, professional activities and coU.ege service activities may conttact Professor Hilary Tann in the Arts Building (Ext. 6566). (Thurs.) FREE MOVIE! AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL PRESENTS: CRYF 7:00 P.M. 4th Floor Lounge of CCI •

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS A:orU 27, 1989 ------~~--~--~--------------~------~~----------~----~------------~------~--------------~--~~--- =========~~ Looking to Sublet 3~4 \ person apartment for the summer. Great location, near campus. lf interested please call Lisa, Kristen; or Ann at 374- RQR& CLUB NEWS Merton tapes-.. Friday, April 28th at Noon. All are welcome to bring btown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404B. Monday Night Sup,per-. May 1st at 5 ·p.m. in CC203 either use your meal plan or bring your own lunch and join Professor Frank MHillo, Mechanical Engineering, · Department Chair for supper and informal conversation. All welcome. Catholic Video Series- Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-·· Union CoHege students can be used in the following areas at St. John's . School: :Klndergartenand Math Aides and Reading on a one-to~ one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353 .. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Musk Looking f'or fem~le to share small apartment on upper east side of Manhattan iune 1st. If interested, can Julie. Daytime 212~303-5103 .. Evenings 212-772-.7066. Need helpers, at ·least ·1 0 people to do packing, loading, unloading - $6.50/hr. mostly days, v.aties on occasion - starting date approximately June 1st- contact Mu:Uen B:r.os M<Win.g & Storage Co., 247 Altamont Avenue, J82-i524 8AM-5PM, Ask for Fred or . Bev. Full-time & pa.r~-time waitresses needed. Interviewing for summer.· ~mployment. 2 years experience, flexible hours. For appointment call Mohawk Golf Club, 1849 Union St., 374- 9121. Interviews will be scheduled between the hours of · 9AM and 11AM and betwe~n 4PM and 6PM. Ministry at the 7;30 p.m. Need student for part-time Sunday Mass please meet at . • computer aid drafting job. Will 6:30 p.m. in the church to . work on PC Auto cad program rehearse. ,, - $7 .SO/hr. Student to· set CLASSIFIEDS Attention - Government Homes from .. $1 (U-repair) Deliquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 ext. GH7090. Attention - Government seized vehicles from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602-838-8885 ext. A7090. hours. Contact Conrad St. Pierre. GE 385~2777. , Need female student· interested in home care for two small chi-ldren ages 3 112 and 1 112. 2-3 days a week {r.egular) approximately 8:30-4:30 or 9- 5. Contact: 346-7619. Retail Sales - Bathtique Store, Rotterdam Square Mall. Work schedule, all different shifts, available Mon.-Sun. For further information call 374-2993 or apply in person. Stt~den t needed to \do' yard work and other odd jobs - $8.00/hr. Location Niskayuna off Rosendale Road. Please contact 377 ·9043. PERSONALS Rach- You're the best roomie and friend but I just can'ttalk now. Becky,Jen, Jane, and Mary; You have something on your nose, but that's okay because on a \nice\ day we're going to frolic in the ocean. Love, Wendy Digger-· It's turning black! Love Tara LOVO- Maybe I'll .see you tomorrow. By ihe way, J think our parents are disowning you. - Call them. Lisa a.k.a. at Union Little Lovo Jungle Love - It's driving me mad. It's making me crazy. Jen, A .soldier in the war of mathamatics. (foiled again)! L;A Jess- Soon you'll have enough watermelons to open up a fruit store. Love, 252 C()rds, Here's to the fi,r.st girl to . graduate from Urlion with a B.A. from DU. Congrats! Love, Alice Green eyes, are you ready for another adventure? Love You! China Doll. \Attention - Hiring!\ Government jobs, your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840-$69,485. Call 1-602- 838-8885 ext. R7090. ROOM LOTIERY llousesitter Available! May - August. Professional. For information Call 346- 2034. Ask for Joan. Duplex Van Vranker Ave, near campus, 3 BR up, 3 down. Nice. Year lease, Security. A vail. May '89. 426- 3548. Time 6:30-7:00 pm 7:00-7:30pm . 7:30-8:00.pm 8:00-8:30 pm 8:30-9:00 pm 9:00-9:30 pm 9:30-10:00 pm 10:00 until the last person present is cal1ed Junior Lottery Soghomore Lotterv l-50 1-50 51-100 51-100 101-150 101-150 151-200 151-200 201-250 201-250 251-300 251-300 301 oil up until the last 301-350 person present is called 351 on up unril the last person present is called THE SE!'.lOR LOTIERY Looking for a fraternity~ . Sorority or Student Organization that would like to make $500.-$1,000 for a one week on campus marketing project. Must be organized and hard working. Call Jill or Carine at 1-800-592-2121. The. senior lottery does not have lottecy ·numbers assigned to a specific time period_ · The senior lottery will begin at 6:30 prri Achilles rink, Thursday May 25, with the senior present who has the loY.· est lottery number (#1 ). The senior with the next lowest lonery . number (#2) and present will ~!ten be called. This process will continue until the last senior present is c;,illed. It is your advantage to be on time a5 the senior lottery hijs been historically completed VIi thin o~e hour. Point of interest: The schedule is strictly adhered ro · and lottery numbefli are NOT called early. However, it's !Jest to show up a few minutes early if your lottery number is one of the first few to 1Je called. , GET INVOLVED!!! -BECOME A MEMBER OF A COMMITTEE FOR NEKT YEAR! The Committee o:: Committees is accepting APPLICATIONS for the following cortunittees and subcouncils for the 1989-90 .school year. ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COUK::IL ACADEMIC COMPUTING SUBCOUNCIL ADMISSIONS LIAISON CC~!XITTEE ATHLETIC LIAISON COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ON HONO:li!.ARY DEGREES . CONCERT COMMITTEE . CONDUCT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ON COMMITTE:::S FILM COMMITTEE FINANCE COMMITTEE HUMAN SUBJ'ECTS RESEARCH COMMITTEE PLANNING AND PRIORITIES COMMITTEE RESEARCH AND GRANT CO~!ITTEE SOCIAL COMMITTEE SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES c:~ITTEE STUDE~T AFFAIRS COMMITTEE SPEAKERS BOARD STANDING ON STUDENTS COMMITTEE STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COMMITTEE .3:''JDENT GROUNDS COMMITTEE PICK UP AN APPLICATI:~; AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE- FOORTE FLOOR, COLLEGE CENTER ·CAMPUS NEWS Th·e room lo.tter·y Wil'l· be conducted from . M·ay 15 to May · 30. The computerw.ill randcfrnly assign. numbers to students· by class year . .That is to ·say, the computer randomly: assigns numbers to members of the classes of 90, 91, 92. · The ·cornpute.r \the·n translates the random number to a number that is understandable-- 1. through 525·- roughly . the size .of each class. This will be do11e tor each·ctass with · the exception of the incoming ·new students. · Hepresentatives of the. Office of Hesioence_ Life wm distribute a lottery card pearing th~ student's name, ID · number,. and I<Jttery number to eligible students.lhe . student MUSl' present his/her HJ and pick up his/her 'lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting~o·s will r-eceive a .lottery eard. U a student h;:ts a class and is unable to pick up'his/har lottery card that day, tle/she may dp so at . the appropriat~ ~rea Coordinator's Office the n~xt day. ~ $10.00 late fe.e IAitll apply to all others-- no except1ons. . The selecton <lf available campus housing is divided into three ·ca.tegorie,s:: Smith House/ singles/doubles/ triples ar~d suites. Th·ere will b:e a meeting to explain the selection . process for Strl'ith House on May 3. A member from the · Office of Residence Life will answer all questions about the . Smitlil House lotte.ry at this meeting .. The remainder of the · campus housing will be selected according to class year and by the lottery numbet assigned to each student. Singles Lottery: The senior With the 'lowest lottery number (#1) will have · the first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery numbeT {#2.) wilf have the second. choice. If some ·singles have hot be.en sele.cted and there · are no more ser1iors present, the junior present with the lowest number will have the first choice of the remaining . singles. This pr()cess win continue until all singles have · been se.lected or no eligible student is pre.sent to select a single. · · · Double and Suite Lottery: The lc>ttery for doubles, triples, and suites will conclude the process. The sophomore lottery will be held first, folowed by the jLJnior lottery, and f.inally the senior lottery. The class memi:Jer present with the lowest lottery number · will have to pick first: The ·class member with the next . . lowest lottery .number, and present. will follow. When a · · suite, triple or double is selected, all roommates MUST BE · present and all MUST SIGN CONTRACTS, There must be . four students (n()t three or two or o11e).to choose a suite. When selectin(J a triple there must be three (not two or one) roommates. The room or suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the roommates .are not present to sign the contract when the room .or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are .found to have cheated will lose any right to _the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) vvho cheated will be fined $tOO. Point of interest: class ~tanding is determinEd by the number of credits :received at the end of the. winte.r term-- no · exceptions. · ROOM .LOUERY WHAT DATE TIME FLACE WHATTOBRING Co-op i,nter~t May.3 4;00pm Fox lounge All members of your meeting co-op Distribution of May 16 1:00- Seniors- ~IUSTHA VE YOUR lottery niiitlbers 4:00pm Residence I. D. Life Office 1:00- Sopl!()I\lores- ?-.lUST HAVE YOUR 4:00pm Davidson Lounge I.D. 1:00- Juniors. MUSTHA V:E YOUR 4:00pm Fox Lotmge I.D. Co-op Lottery ~a:y 18 6:00pm Acltilles Rink ID, Lottery Card All members of co-op Singles Lottery May18 6:30pm Acililles.Rink ID; Lottery card Sophomore lottery doubles & suites Miay22 6:30pm Acllilles Rink ID. Lott~· card All roo!lllll3t¢s Junior lottery May24 6:30pm Acllilles Rink ID,l.ottery catd doubles & suites All roommates Senior Lonery May25 6:~0pm Ac!Ulles Rink ID, Lottery card doubles & sulres All roommates .. REMEMBER ......... -.... . -You must have )'()ur ID and lottery card when cil.oosing a room. ·The class member present with the lowest nutnbet will have first pick.. • ·The class mernb<r- with tbe nexdowest lottery nu!ll~r. and present, v.ill follow. ·All roommates lvltlST BE PRESENT AND SIG'N CO!I.'TRACfS when the room or sulre is chosen . -Only four peopi:1l.rnay claim a suite. -Only three pe<>ple may t:lairn ~ trlple. . . - . •All occupants ti:fil room or su1te who are foundl<lhave cheated _will lose any nghts , to the room or s11i1e. Additionally, the person(s) -who cheated v.1ll be fined.$100. .

CONCORDlENSIS April 27, 1989 Page 17 The return of the Jello Slide! Hey B)lddy, . Fi~hugh Ludlow Day, ·May . Who..Will be the lucky one at 19th- BETHEREH . Jungle love? JW, MS. AE, · DG, or none of the above? To Brownyand the stinky Cheshire Cat - Little Bro Things are tough all over! PUTTER IS A BOY. Love, The eyes · \ ' To Tim Sullivan: · Bergstein: Tiqte is running out! Jessie, I'm doing a few perimeters. I'll be back with \Mr. Right.\ Jen · HdyHormone Batman! It's a speed bump, it's a log, no, it's a ... telephone pole! Quantity Squared, Damon, the Boy Upstairs, & DU - CAMPUS NEWS Jason- I'm really very sorry .... The DARTMOUTH ONIO~ Becky .and Sue You're B()th Really Great!!! I'll Miss you ... \The GREEK\ ZEUS. ZEUS. ZEUS! ZBT Brothers, The bushes! We think not!!! C&D Stillman, All your dreams come true: the house, Europe and Pannell!! Where is Curt when we need to celebrate? Love Denny. We miss you!Come back Soon. Adios, Amoeba! · Love, Cuatro$uckers Y Un : Please stop calling & take it J=-e~n-....,&=-·. -:-A-=m\'\\· e~t'---\-----'~ · · easy with the flowers, our You guys are the two best room can't handle any more. Ronnie HiBamey! Dear Kim- HAPPY BIRTHDAY! Leviathan H ... roommates we could ever ask Fox 252. We Love You! Eve-Lynn and Stephanie Crown De Hooks! Jen & Kristen, Get psyched for Warhol! ASA, for. We love you so much. Better get that wine before Thanks for just being you. Thursday! With Love, CindS & Jess. =--·~-----~.;::S.:...W;.;...: · .. Tes.s &- c .. o··.,ds- ~ Kevin, . · • Where are You? It's about the beds ... Let's \Sleep\ on it! Freeman,. What.d'ya say- two on one?? You know who we are and we want the Jalapenos back!'! Windbag~ Was it too much too soon ar too little too late? We want to know!! L&L Me&Her -Sascha,' to cre<!-te the impression that you .do have, friends - ·~ehhh' ·, . · Allie & Jen Job, · SA is open at Ellis. Patiently awaiting your next casualty. Cords~ Jon & Allie. BLOOM COUNTY .. 1/N/J 57rJf 5t0VCHIM!;, SON ... N!C£ &/Kl5 1/!?al'f A11l?AC1Gi? m oflP ffJ517Jr<~. Guess who? Cords- Are you managing a shelter for . runaway DU's? Her & Me Stef & Kristen, ;::;-;-;-~~~~~----~~- · . Houstens', Garretts, El Eileen- T ' Ch' ' Lo h N onto s, · tcagos, c. . ess At last ~ the bruises are back! Monster, Busch Gardens, red Deborah, Our social skills are fine - we just don't wctnt to talk to anyone! But last year how did we ... Here's to hoping they contin11e spoons, yellow raincoats, cap on a semi-teg1,1lar basis! Keep guns and psychos! D.C. will Cathy, smiling! never be the same. Thaliks for . Kathy · an awesome weekend. -;-Je\'\\s-s---~~-~-- · Lo-ve Risa You are personally invited for finger sandwiches and cream . \p'J:ffs\ oil the house. Beta · Kristen, Did we loop yet??? Thanks for the note. It gave me the chills too! Luv, Hallie Amanda, Hope you plan to take my place as Snow White - I resign. by Berke Breathed 5/X M!N(/Tf.5: $8_.25. VI5A OR MII$Tef?CIJK!?! ~ WHIITW YOU WIINTMel() CIIU. YOV ? I kNOW/ ''{/6£~\/ OKAY, 8(Jr ilkWfiYS KNOW 1!1/lt I WOtltJJ 6tlltlt.Y HIP /J()1fl MY 1£65 Off !/NV /UIJ 111€/'11 10 Cf<OCO/J/Lt;5 10 511Ve: YOfJP. t.lf~. ·IFIW!?e I M/a-P!At£1? · ~/?lilt. -II-MOM.~~ . WHIIPYA 1H!NK? •

CONCORDIENSIS VISAGE HAIR AND TANNING STUDio· Philosophies to be compared Jitendranrath. Mohanty ,aphilosophy professor at Temple University, will speak on ''Is Indian Philosophy. Radi~ally Different from Western Philosophy?\ at 3:30p.m. Fnoay, 557 NOTT ST. 374•0351 TANNING- ALL VISITS ARE $1.00 April28, in Humanities Building Room 213. . IF VO:U_'VE NEVER DONE IT, DO IT NOW .... ·.WHAT: WHEN: WHERE: WHY: 11th Annual Delta Gamma Olympics Friday, May i9th at 1:00 P.M. ~m~R~ .E To Benefit Sight Conservation and A1Cf to the Blind Fifteen teams of 5 men and 5 women are eligible to compete in Olympic games like you've never seen them before! An entry f.ee of $7.00 per team member covers the cost of a tee-shirt, games, and prizes. One team member must register your team ~t REGISTRAIION on May 2 (Tuesday) at 1 ~· :45. m CARNEGIE. Bring team entry fee of $70.00. Reg1strat1on is on a first come, first serve basis. ••. AND IF YOU'VE DONE IT, YOU, KNOW HOW GOOD IT IS!!! CASH PRIZES Don't miss the· Fu.nl Particpate in the SPRING STUDENT PHONATHON Sunday, April30 Monday, May 1 Sunday, May 7 Monday, May 8 5:30- 9:30 Hale House Dining Room Call x61 75 to sign up your team today[ FREE FOOD The freelecture is the sixth in the DepartmentofPhdoso- phy's Winter/Spring Term Colloquia. HOURS: Mon. thur Sun. ... 3:30 to 11 :00 PM - · BUFFALO STYLE WINGS · (With FREE talers} 10. .................... , ............. 3.79 .60: ................................ 19.99 1'5 ................................... 5.79 ·ao ................................ 27.59 00 ................................ 11.49· 100 ............ ~ ................... 34.49 ·50 ........................... ; ..... 17.2!J ·200 ........................... : ...... 67:99 Sauces: Barbeque, Lou\isiana Mild, Medium, Hot, Sidlian Mild, Medium Hot ~ ............... - -·--- ... - KOOPON--- ..... ----- ·--, : :i.o FREE WINGs ~ : When You Purchase 50 or .Mo1\e 1 ~ - ... - - - \!'\> ,.,. ~· - ._ - KOQPON - - - - -. ..... - - .... - -.. .a Free delivery for orders of $10 or more Deliveries on the hour '·'Mom says the house just isnt the same without me, even though its a lot cleaner.'' Just because your Mom is faraway, doesn't mean you can't be close. You can still share the love· and laughter on AT & T Long Distance Service. · lt costs less than you . think to hear that she likes the peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can de:;~n your room later. Reach outand · touch someone~ ATilT The right choice. GREEK WEEK IS COMING MAY 17-20

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS AprU 27, 1989 VISAGE HAIR AND TANNING STUDIO 557 NOTT ST. 374-0351 TANN1NG- ALL VISITS ARE $1.00 Men's Haircuts __________ ~ $ 13 9 Women's Haix<Juts __ ,__ _____ <J> Perms $4-0 $1 Tanning Visits! :$10 off faoialst -n~US:, pedicuresf and body wraps. Spiral Perms $55 Highlighting $40 Ccllophan.ing $15 YOU MUST MENTION THIS AD TO GET THESE PRICES. IF YOU'VE NEVER DONE IT, DO IT NOWu .. WHAT: WHEN: WHERE: WHY: 1 :1 th Annual Delta Gamma Olympics Friday, May 19th at 1:00 P.M. Library Field To Benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind Fifteen teams of 5 men and 5 women are eligible to compete in Olympic games like you've never seen them before! An entry fee of $7.00 per team member covers the cost of a tee-shirt, games, and prizes. One team member must register your team ~t REGISTRATION on May 2 (Tuesday) at 1~:45. m CARNEGIE. Bring team entry fee of $70.00. Regtstrat;on is on a first come, first serve basis. ... AND IF YOU'VE DONE IT, YOU KNOW HOW GOOD IT IS!!! CASH PRIZES Don't miss the Fun! Particpate in the SPRING STUDENT PHONATHON Sunday, April30 Monday, May 1 Sunday, May 7 Monday, May 8 5:30- 9:30 Hale House Dining Room Call x6l75 to sign up your team today! FREE FOOD Philosophies to be compared Ji tcndranrath Mohanty ,a ph<ilosophyprofcssor at Temple Un iversily, will speak on \Is lndian Philosophy Radi~ally Different fFom Western Philosophy?\ al 3:30 p.m. Fnday, April28, in Humanities Building Roorn 213. . The free lecture is the sixth in the Department ofPhlloso- ph:y' s Winter/Spring Term Colloquia. /~~\tH~f~ fl{iqj0. ~~-~if~' 346-9034 ~;,.,.,---,. I ' \.~~ HOURS: STYLE WINGS l I i ~~: • ' 0 '\\ \ 346-9034 .. , .. '\ : : ' ' I ' 1183 CHRISLER AVENUE • SCHENECTADY. N: : l ; . r--· Mon. thur Sun. 3:3oto 11 :oo PM .; __ . __ LtJ ~-J _ ~ -~~ij~<~ ~-;c~~-~-t Sunday 2 to 7 PM - BUFFALO STYLE WINGS (with FREE talers) 10 ................................... 3.79 60 ................................. 19.99 15 ................................... 5.79 80 ................................ 27.ffJ 3J ................................ 11.49 100 ................................ 34.49 50 ................................. 17.2SJ 201 ................................. 67.99 Sauces: Barbeque, Louisiana Mild, Medium, Hot, Sicilian Mild, Medium Hot ~-----------KOOPON-----------, I : 10 FREE WINGS : : When You Purchase 50 or More ' - ' ~-----------KOOPON-----------~ Free delivery for orders of $10 or more Deliveries on the hour ''Mom says the ho~e just isdt the same without me, even though its a lot cleaner.'~ lust because vour J\lom is br a\.v~t\·, d< lesn 't mean you ctn'th.: close. 'tbu can still shan: the !me and !au ohter t Jn AT&T Long i:\> Distan(l' SerYice. It cDsts less than mu think to heart hat slic likes the pc~tl'L' and quiet. hut she missc>s vou. So go ahead. gi,.c:yt lW .\1om ~l calL 1{lu em clean your roomla tc,r. Reach out and roue h someone~ ATs.T The right choice. -JUNAC. · - Britislt . liJni viers.ities ·•· North · American •· ··~;blb .. will .Provide · y<Yu witll .• ,a·. wotk ·. lil·~tt\iji: . '. ' l•fl,~p,n; r.~·~llffe,r .. Class . of 9() GREEK WEEK IS COMING MAY 17-20 i I

2'7, 1989 P'a~~ 19 T . · ... ennts Te.am Searching SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By ADAM CURJlY Bud Collins couldn't have said it better when he procfaimedj 'This Union team is better than 2·5.\ In a season highlighted · by traffic violations, bad weather (ease ·UP on the wind, Mother Nature)~ long range racquet tos·sing, and plenty· .of · profanity~ the Dutchmen have ended matcheS on the losing end far too often. Tb,e .two victories were over R.P.I . .and Siena, wllile the five losses: have come at the hands of Albany S·t., . S'kidmor.e; Bamiltgn, Binghamton and . Colgate. Overall, the team's play has been too erratic, especjally at singles. First and second singles have been. shared .by Robert Ackerman .('91) and Chad Levin · ('89). They hav:e yet to play to their capacity. but both have positive outlooks on the rest of the ·season. Rob, who is not one to make excuses; blamed his mediocre start on daylight . savings time- \My game's been out of sync since I turned my watch up an hour.\ On the other hapd, Chad (3•1 at #2 singles) credited his good play to Coach MacDonald's observations. \He told me ,to watch for the variable.s-- and that's what I've done.\ Meanwhile third singles has been occnpied by freshman Cfuis Miller: Chris- has played consistently, but he knows he · can do better. He admitted that he's had trouble concentrating on tennis because he on,ly needs one remaining letter to win l\;'lcDonald's (no relation to the coach) Sctabl>le Contest. ChrisD'Orio ('92) has gGne:2-4 •' · .at fourth singles, but bas played weU. lfe credits his fine . play to his pregame ritual of • \tossing back a couple\ (thoU,gh he doesn't reco:trni:lend it to .everyone). One of ·the pleasant surptises this spring has been Jim O'Brien's ('89) gutsy play at fifth singles. James Ius supplied the team wi·th co:urt antics .that hav~ made him f11n to watch,.,eveh'if·he is. losing. As one RP.T. :spec~tator remark~d after viewing firn's match~ \Where else can I see art individual do forward . and backward rolls, toss his racquet up to 30 yargs, use profanity, and still play .great . tenni~.\ Rounding out the top six is Joe \player/coach/ bac.k-up v;m driver\ Voyticky ('89}. Thoagh Joe has struggled so far, Union is very fortunate to have a player like Joe. He has inspired the team with his pep talks, coaching tips, observathms, driving directions, harassment of opponents., and; most importantly, his des·ire to win. Fred Ont.ario, a follower of Division 3 Tennis in llpstate New York for over 40 yeat:s, · proclaimed, . ~·a ·player/person like Joe comes along once every 20 years.\ With the strong play of all three doubles teams thus far, Coach BMac- TPro expects better results in the second half of the season. He boldly predicted that the team will finish at 7-5. However, D'Orio · summed up the play of'the team so far, when he said, \So far, we're shaky atbest.'i By GREG GOETZ Sports Edi:tor Well, lt's EXAM WEEK. I decided to do something different. Hence, with thanks to David Letterman TOP TEN SPORTS EVENTS or FREAKS .OF NATURE AT UNION 10. 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1. Spring Sports feel like they're playing during winter Women's Rugby beats Men's Team Beer Pong - Skiing off Alpha Delta Phi's Roof Sigma Chi Latenight Enforcing the NEW SOCIAL POLICY Delta Gamma Olympics Hamilton goalie being pummelled with fresh fruit Trying to get to your mailbox between classes Whatever Chi Psi does with .a tennis ball on their porch The. Busiest Time of the Year By ANDREW SEEWALD Abut eight years after the season startd, the Stanely Cup Playoffs ;n-e almost down to three C()ntenders plus the team from the Norris Division. The NBA ptayoffs .are set to start, and only five years after their season statted. Baseball, which is always a topic of conversation, must be just getting started, because the Cubs are still in contention. And football has ducked back into the picture for a week or two, with all 28 teams gloating about the players that they picked up who will lead them to the Super Bowl. pitching staff won't fall a.part and they could hold their 'l.ead. Look out for Oakland, wl1o is winning without Cansec~ and McGwire, and Kansa£ City, who seems to have fou11d s<Jme offense in the person of Bo Jackson. As long as Bo d<(Jesn't get so good that he get.5 bored and takes up another hob!)y. K.C. should be OK. rhe NL West is not a very e:xciting division. One note tllou gh: M.OUTHING OFF The NFL draft went according to form. Nobody was burned, except the Jets. It seems as if they love to surprise people because with draft picks like they make, they will never please their fans. This time, they drafted Jeff Lageman, a lineb!cker from Virginia. The problem is not that after playing inside linebacker in college he will be moved to the outside; people agree tht Lageman is a quality player. But, by his own admission, Lageman was a second to fourth round pick, and the Jets took him with the 14th pick overall. They could have had Lageman with their second pick plus a blue-chip defensive end with their first pick. Jack Clark has struck out in almost half .of his at-bats. The NBA playoffs wiU see the lGcal teams fall 011 !lard times. Boston has to J)iay Detroit in the first r(}ulld and even if Larry Bird can return, it would take a mirable tG upset the Pistons. The Knicli.s would be OK if tlto:y were plavinl!. the Pistons. from whom they swept four straight d11rin~ the season, but they will, in;stead, face their nemesi:s, the Philadelpha 76-ers. Tht) ~ix:ers beat the New York te~lll four out of six during tbe St)ason, and could very well se11d them to the golf course elll'ly. The Lakers finished stmn~ and .should send Kareem <lUt 1vith a third straight title, althcnllg 11 the By ANDY BRAVER \And the winner of the Heisman Trophy is .•. \ not quarterback Rodney Peete, formerly of the University of Southern California Trojans. Peete was the runner up to OklahOma State running back Barry Sanders, who was chosen in the first round of .Sunday's NFL Draft by the Detroit Lions, hut was overlooked until. the sixth round of the draft himself. One would think that the runner up in the balloting for the most prestigious award in college football, and maybe au of college sports, would be a highly· desirable player for most professional. tea.ms. Peete's statistics in his senior season were spectacular, as he led his team· to the Rose Bowl against the Miehig an Wolverines. He was the second rated quarterback in the Pac-10 behind another great quarterback, Washington State's Timm Rosenbach. Tioy Aikman, the frrst choice in the draft by the Dallas Cowboys finished his senior season as the third quarterback in the conference. All of the success Peete encountered in his final year would lead . y()u to the conclusion that h.e should h.ave been. one of the top prospetts. He is 6'1 '.' and has an arm that throws bullets. A very versatile player, Peete is also a great scrambler. So why was this fust-team Kodal All-American the second player picked in the 6th round, tile 142nd pick overall, and lhe 8th quarterback chosen? Personally, 1 don't understand it. One possibility is that NFL teams were afraid that Peete · would opt to play baseball instead of staying on the gridiron; they might have been afraid of another Bo Jackson situation. But even as the highest rated college third baseman in the country, Peete proved his dedication to football by sitting out this past baseball season to work on getting. in shape for the upcoming football season. Peete has .made it clear that he won:•t play baseball; he is a quarterback all the way, even after enduring the disappdintment of lasting until the 6th round of the draft: Rodney Peete is a g-reat quarterback and competitor. I believe that he will play for the Detroit Lions. He'll a1so help them win a lot of games in years to come. Interestingly, Peete was' drafted by the same. Detroit team that drafted Bairy Sanders. It makes me think that the Lions now have the two best football players coming out of college this year. B-ut according to the draft, Detroit wound up with the 3rd best player, Sanders, and the . 142nd best player. In baseball, the big surprise has to be Baltimore in the AL East. Granted, this is a weak division, but the Orioles are a young team which plays good defense and has some talented, if unproven, arms on their pitching staff. As for the Cubs, get excited now, you Chicagoans, because some solid fan support may keep this team in the thick of things until the All-Star break. Or at least until the Mets reel off that 94-garne winning streak that will win this weak division. by about 58 games. Opposing managers tell the press that the Mets aren't that good, probably in order to keep their players ftom giving up. Out west, if Texas could . follow Toronto in building a dome, then maybe their ·Goggled One won't ha-veru.uch to do with it, as it is fully Magic's team. The NHL playoffs are halfway over, and the ·Great One has been foiled, :as Cillgary swept the upstart L.&. ICings. Calgary all but gets a free pass to the finals, because they play the winner of the C!Lic<~go-St. Louis .series to deter::mille the sacrificial lamb. Mon:treill will oppose Calgary. because tile Canadiens are simply- the best home ice team in tlu league (their goalie, Patrick R ())', has not lost at home all year} But Calgary gets home ke in the finals, and they sho1ll<i be able to avenge Montrea.l's t 986 victory over the Flames. !Itt' •

,I I ,l ~-------------------=-C..:.O.::..N:....:C:....:O:....:R.::D:...:l:..:E:..:.N~· SIS April 27, 1989 Page 19 illnncnri;J i.ennia SPORTS Tennis Team Searching S,PORT.S ACCOR;DIN'G TO GOETZ By A»AM CURRY Bud Collins couldn't have said it better when he proclaimed, \This Union team is better than 2-5.\ In a season highlighted by traffic violations, bad weather {ease up on the wind, Mother Nature), long range racquet tossing~ and plenty of profanity, the Dutchmen have ended tnatches on the losing end far too often. The two victories were over R.P.I. and Siena, while the five losses have come at the hands of Albany St., Skidmore, Hamilton, Binghamton aRd Colgate. Overall, the team's play has been too erratic, especially at singles. First and second singles have been sllared by Robert Ackerman ('91) and Chad Levin ('89). They have yet to play to their capacity, but both have positive outlooks on the rest of the seasen. Rob, who is not one to make excuses, blamed his mediocre start on daylight savings time- \My game's been out of sync since I turned my watch u.p an hour.\ On the other hand, Chad (3-1 at #2 singles) credited his good play to Coach MacDonald's observations. \He told me to watch for the variables-- and that's what I've done.\ Meanwhile third singles has been occupied by freshman Chris Miller. Chris has played consistently, but he knows he can do better. He admitted that he's had trouble concentrating on tennis because he only needs one remaining letter to win McDonald's (no relation to the coach) Scrabble Contest. Chris D'Orio ('92) has gone 2-4 · at fourth siHgles, but has played well. He credits his fine play to his preg arne ritual of \toss back a couple\ (though he doesn't recommend it to everyone). One of the pleasant surprises this spring has been Jim O'Brien's ('89) gutsy play at fifth singles. James has supplied the team with court antics that have made him fun to watch even if he is losing. As one R.P.I. spectator remarked after viewing Jim's match- \Where else can I see an individual do forward and backward rolls, toss his racquet up to 30 yargs, use profanity, and still play great tennis.\ Rounding out the top six is Joe \player/coach! back-up van driver\ Voyticky ('89). Though Joe has struggled so far, Union is very fortunate to have a player like Joe. He has inspired the team with his pep talks, coaching tips, observations, driving directiolls, harassment of opponents, and, most importantly, his desire to win. Fred Ontario, a follower of Division 3 Tennis in upstate New York for over 40 years, proclaimed, \a player/person like Joe comes along once every 20 years.\ With the strong play of all three doubles teams thus far, Coach BMac- TPro expects better results in the second half of the season. He boldly predicted that the team will finish at 7-5. However, D'Orio summed up the play of ·the team so far, when he said, \So far, we're shaky at best.\ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor Well, It's EXAM WEEK. I decided to do something different. Hence, with thanks to David Letterman TOP TEN SPORTS EVENTS or FREAKS OF NATlJRE AT UNION 10. 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1. Spring Sports feel like they're playing during winter Women's Rugby beats Men's Team Beer Pong Skiing off Alpha Delta Phi's Roof Sigma Chi Latenight Enforcing the NEW SOCIAL POLICY Delta Gamma Olympics Hamilton goalie being putnmelled with fresh fruit Trying to get to your mailbox between classes Whatever Chi Psi does with a tennis ball on their porch The Busiest Time of the Year By ANDREW SEEWALD Abut eight years after the season startd, the Stanely Cup Playoffs are almost down to three contenders plus the team from the Norris Division. The NBA playoffs are set to start, and only five years after their season started. Baseball, which is always a topic of conversation, must be just getting started, because the Cubs are still in contention. And football has ducked back into the picture for a week or two, with all 28 teams gloating about the players that they picked up who will lead them to the Super Bowl. pitching staff won't fall apart and they could hold their lead. Look out for Oakland, who is winning without Canseco and McGwire, and Kansas City, who seems to have found some offense in the person of Bo Jackson. As long as Bo doesn't get so good that he gets bored and takes up another hobby, K.C. should be OK. The NL West is not a very exciting division. One note though: MOUTHING OFF The NFL draft went according to form. Nobody was burned, e:xcept the Jets. It seems as if they love to surprise people because with draft picks like they make, they will never please their fans. This time, they drafted Jeff Lageman, a linebacker from Virginia. The problem is not that after playing inside linebacker in college he will be moved to the outside; people agree tht Lageman is a quality player. But, by his own admission, Lageman was a second to fourth round pick, and the Jets took him with the 14th pick ovetall. They could have had Lageman with their second pick plus a blue-chip defensive end with their first pick. Jack Clark has struck out in almost half of his at-bats. The NBA playoffs will see the local teams fall on hard times. Boston has to play Detroit in the firc;t round and even if Larry Bird can return, it would take a mirable to upset the Pistons. The Knicks would be OK if thi!y were olaving the Pistons. from whom they swept four straight during the season, but they will, instead, face their nemesis, the Philadelpha 76-ers. The Sixers beat the New York team four out of six during the season. and could very well send them to the golf course early. The Lakers finished strong and should send Kareem out with a third straight title, although the By ANDY BRAVER \And the winner of the Heisman Trophy is ... \ not quarterback Rodney Peete, formerly of the University of Southern California Trojans. Peete was the runner up to Oklahoma State running back Barry Sanders, who was chosen in the first round of Sunday's NFL Draft by the Detroit Lions, but was overlooked until the sixth round of the draft himself. One would think that the runner up in the balloting for the most prestigious award in college football, and maybe all of college sports, would be a highly desirable player for most professional teams. Peete's statistics in his senior season were spectacular, as he led his team to the Rose Bowl against the Michigan Wolverines. He was the second rated quarterback in the Pac-10 behind another great quarterback, Washington State's Timm Rosenbach. Troy Aikman, the first choice in the draft by the Dallas Cowboys finished his sellior season as the third quarterback in the conference. All of the success Peete encountered in his final year would lead you to the conclusion that he should have been one of the top prospects. He is 6'1\ and has an arm that throws bullets. A very versatile player, Peete is also a great scrambler. So why was this first-team Kodal All-American the second player picked in the 6th round, the 142nd pick overall, and the 8th quarterback chosen? Personally, I don't understand it. One possibility is that NFL teams were afraid that Peete would opt to play baseball instead of staying on the gridiron; they might have been afraid of another Bo Jackson situation. But even as the highest rated college third baseman in the country, Peete proved his dedication to football by sitting out this past baseball season to work on getting in shape for the upcoming football season. Peete has made it clear that he won't play baseball; he is a quarterback all the way, even after enduring the disappointment of lasting until the 6th round of the draft: Rodney Peete is a great quarterback and competitor. I believe that he will play for the Detroit Lions. He'll also help them win a lot of games in years to come. Interestingly, Peete was drafted by the same Detroit team that drafted Baity Sanders. It makes me think that the Lions now have the two best football players coming out of college this year. But according to the draft, Detroit wound up with the 3rd best player, Sanders, and the l42nd best player. In baseball, the big surprise has to be Baltimore in the AL East. Granted, this is a weak division, but tile Orioles are a young team which plays good defense and has some talented, if unproven, arms on their pitching staff. As for the Cubs, get excited now, you Chicagoans, because some solid fan support may keep this team in the thick of things until the All-Star break. Or at least until the Mets reel off that 94-game winning streak that will win this weak division by about 58 games. Opposing managers tell the press that the .Mets aren't that good, probably in order to keep their players from giving up. Out west, if Teus could • follow Toronto in building a dome, then maybe their · Goggled One won't have much to do with it, as it is fully Magic's team. The NHL playoffs are halfway over, and the Great One has been foiled, as Calgary swept the upstart LA Kings. Calgary all but gets a free pass to the finals, because they play the winner of the Chicago-St. Louis series to determine the sacrificial lamb. Montreal will oppose Calgary, because the Canadiens are simply the best home ice team in the league (their goalie, Patrick Roy. has not lost at home all year). But Calgary gets home ice in the finals, and they should be able to avenge Montreal's 1986 victory over the Flames. -

. t ~- <(' 3· ~ CIJ a: :r: 0 iii 0 b :r: Q. Dave DeBardlnls looks fQ.r an open man. Men's tax went 2·1 .last week and Is now 1-3 overa'll. Women's SQftball wemt 2 .. 0 last weekend ·and look* to thel·r last four games .with Ath.letic ~lrector:.r'Dick Sakala as. coach~ . nn April27, .1989 MEN'S LAX, 7-3, EYES AN. Women's Track .Excels T·h,rough .. Snow, Wind ECAC BI.D By SHORTCAKE Keller and Dellardinialead 16e way When tb:e women's track each coatributed one assist to team ariivecl at the Gal~ate the cause. They were: Keller, · Invitational track meet last Blake Henderso11, CO-captain · Saturday, tne dark and gloomy Nick B-aratoff, who injured his • clouds let loose a blizzard leg during the game, Pat : worse than .ther had seen all Lawson, and John Maher. ; winter. Tho11gh the snow did Coacll Chuck Priore not last, the gale force winds commented that he is very 1 did, making conditions pleased with the way the team · difficult. .As· a result, tbe is playing, although he wished · Jumping events were moved the Siena game could have inside. To make matters worse, been played under better ·. the women. faced 15-20 t<>ngh were almest a~ str~ng in their beat of the 800 as:tiley finished . in 2;.39.74 alld 2:42.25. respectively. In 11te 200 m dash,. Rika P'()<Jr, stiU recovering from a recent bout with mono, sprinte<i }ler way to a tenth place finisll vvitb a time of 13.54 seconds. She then came back to power her way through the 200 ·m dash in By BILL MAFFIE The Men's Lacrosse team is at it again. Mter suffering a 13-11 loss at the hands of undefeated Williams College last week, the team bea~ Hamilton 8-6 on Saturday. and crushed a weaker R.P .I. team 10-2 in Troy on Tuesday. Lead by the scoring of Capitol District Player of the week (for the second straight week) John Keller, who netted four goals and dished out one assist, the team played a solid all-around game. The defensive strength was provided by Steve Garnett, C.J. Johnson, Joe Goethe, and last week's Athlete of the Week Paul Garnett. Garnett saved 70 percent of the sho.ts which Hamilton fired at him, providing a lift for the team. Knowing that the defense was pulling their end of the bargain, the offense catne through on two of four extra- man-opportunities and badgered \Lead by the scoring of Capital District Player of the Week, John Keller, who netted four goals and dished out one assist, the team played a solid aUaaround game.\ the Hamilton goalie with crisp passing and nice movement. Besides Keller, co-captain Dave Deberardinis and Pete Cotier each scored two goals of their own. Five different player. SPORTS WEEK THURSDAY, APRIL 27 Men's Baseball vs. Hamitton 3:30 Away FRIDAY, APRIL 28 Womenis Softball vs. St. Rose 3:30Home SATURDAY, APRIL 29 Men's Baseball vs. St. Larence (2) 1 :00 Away Men's Lacrosse vs. . Colgate 2:00 Away Men's Tennis vs. Hartwick 1:00 Home Men's GoH @ Williams 1 :00 Away Men's & Women's Track @ Hartwick lnvy 9:00 Away MONDAY, May 1 JV Women's Lacrosse vs. Vassar Women's Softball vs. Albany TUESDAY, May 2 Men's Baseball vs. Hartwick · Women's Lacrosse vs. API WEDNESDAY, May 3 Men's Baseball Men's Lacrosse Men's Tennis vs. RPI (2) vs. Hartwir:;-. vs. Middlebury 10:00Home 3:00 Away 3:00 Home 4:00 Away 3:00Home 7:00 Away 3:00 HOme 27.27. . .. conditions, and perhaps they teams, irrclllding Divisioa II come away with a victory. Syracuse University. Despite In the 1500 m ru11~ Sandy Anselment surp1ised even herself by running a personal record for the .se~tson and placing sixth witlt a time of 5:09.6. Tuesday's game against such adversity, the women had R.P.I. was another fine an excellentday~ ln the field eve11ts, the women provided yet another impressive showing; in the triple jump, Natalie Gifford jumped her way to an all-time personal record. In the shot put, AliX Goldschmidt muscled a heave of to~s& .m to obtain the fifth place ltol!or. Then, in the javeli~.Alix ltad.a throw of 30.48 m, whiclt was good for another fifth place. Joining · Alix in the javeli11 were Beth Jewitt and Kim Rey11olds who threw 18.31 m an<l 18;02 m respectively. example of the team's offensive In the 800 m tun, Union was ability. John Keller (believe it well represented ·by running or not!) scored only two goals sensations Meg Parsons, and llad two assists. With Lynne Erd111an, Deb Danforth Keller playing only an average game (at least by mortal · standards). PeBardinis provided the sccring punch· with four- goals and two assists. As a side note, Kelier's scoring pro~ess has lodged him securely in the top ten for Division III in both goals (5th) and total points (7th). There is, however, a certain amount of comfort in knowing that there are many other players on the team who can put the ball in ~he net. Sophomore Alan Fleischer had two goals, and Cotier and Dennis Baldwin ro11nded out the scoring. Along with assists by Keller and DeBardinis; Jason Albert had two. and Black Hendersoa, Scott Daniels~ and Jan Berlnge had one each. Freshman Will Winsllipplayeda solid game in his first start on defense, and · his efforts were supported by the us11al cast of defensive stalwarts~ With two solid wins under their belts, and a Strong momentum at their backs, Coach Priore will lead his team against a very talented Colgate team Saturday, April 29th. If the team continues to play. at the s arne level; they should emerge with a victory, and even a National ranking. Potential honors aside however, the task remains to, beat Colgate, and continue to build u-p momentum before the ECAC playoffs roll around. In a field of lS-20 tcuigh teams . . • \Sandy · Anselme11t surprised even herself by running a personal record for the .season and placing 61h . with a time of 5:09.6'* in the 150() 'meter run. and Denise McMillan. Meg, normally a 400 m runner, and Lynne worked together against the tougb competition to nab tenth and eleventh place finishes. Meg barely outleaned Lynne as they fin1shed·,in 2:33.72 and 2:34.92 respectively, Deb and .Oettise Finally,. in the 4 x 400 .m relay, the team of Rika, Denise, Lynne aad. Deb pooled their strength t() run an exciting 4:29.34 tbat kept the fans sitting on tlle edge of their seats. The wo01en will try to tum i:n another strong showing at ·the Hartwick. Invitational track meet this Vieekend. / Do you likefast cars, hot bodies and free beer? So do we - Come join us, you'll like us. WRITE FOR CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS Call Greg, 374 .. 248~ or Scott, 386-4347

, .. ,. ill :::!: <( :::i ...J § sa a: :c 0 iti 0· ~ ·~ Q. Dave DeBardinls looks for an open ma-n. Men's lax went 2-1 last week and Is now 7·3 overall. Women's Softball went 2-0 last weekend and looks to their last four games with Athletic Director Dick Sakala as coach. April 27, 1989 MEN'S LAX, 7-3, EYES AN. EC,AC BID Keller and Deiltlrdinis lead tile w11y By BILL MAFFIE The Men's Lacrosse team is at it again. After suffering a 13-11 loss at the hands of undefeated Williams College last week, the team bea~ Hamilton 8-6 on Saturday, and crushed a wealcer R.P.I. team 10-2 in Troy on Tuesday. him, providing a lift for the team. Knowing that the defense was pulling their end of the bargain, the offense came through on two of four extra- man-opportunities and badgered Lead by the scoring of Capitol District Player of the week (for the second straight week) John Keller, who netted four goals and dished out one assist, the team played a solid all-around game. The defensive strength wa<; provided by Steve Garnett, C.J. Johnson, Joe Goethe, and last week's Athlete of the Week Paul Garnett. Garnett saved 70 percent of the shots which Hamilton fired at \Lead by the scoring of Capital District Player of the Week, John Keller, who netted four goals and dished out one assist, the team played a solid all-around game.\ the Hamilton goalie with crisp passing and nice movement. Besides Keller, co-captain Dave Deberardinis and Pete Cotier each scored two goals of their own. Five different player SPORTS WEEK THURSDAY, APRIL 27 Men's Baseball vs. Hamilton FRIDAY, APRIL 28 Women's Softball vs. St. Rose SATURDAY, APRIL 29 Men's Baseball vs. St. Larence (2) Men's Lacrosse vs. . Colgate Men's Tennis vs. Hartwick Men's Golf @ Williams Men's & Women's Track @ Hartwick Jnvy MONDAY, May 1 JV Women's Lacrosse vs. Vassar Women's Sottball vs. Albany Men's Baseball Women's Lacrosse TUESDAY, May 2 vs. Hartwick vs. API WEDNESDAY, May 3 Men's Baseball Men's Lacrosse Men's Tennis vs. RPI (2) vs. Hartwick vs. Middlebury 3:30 Away 3:30 Home 1:00 Away 2:00 Away 1:00 Home 1:00 Away 9:00 Away 10:00Home 3:00 Away 3:00 Home 4:00 Away 3:00 Home 7:00 Awa1 3:00Home each contributed one assist to the cause. They were: Keller. Blake Henderson, Co-captain Nick Baratoff, who injured his leg during the game, Pat Lawson, and John Maher. Coach Chuck Priore commented that he is very pleased with the way the team is playing, although he wished the Siena game could have been played under better conditions, and perhaps they come away with a victory. Tuesday's game against R.P. I. was another fine example of the team's offensive ability. John Keller (believe it or not!) scored only two goals and had two assists. With Keller playing only an average game (at least by mortal standards). DeBardinis provided the scoring punch with four goals and two assists. As a side note, Kelier's scoring prowess has lodged him securely in the top ten for Division III in both goals (5th) and total points (7th). There is, however, a certain amount of comfort in knowing that there are many other players on the team who can put the ball in the net. Sophomore Alan Fleischer had two goals, and Cotier and Dennis Baldwin rounded out the scoring. Along with assists by Keller and DeBardinis, Jason Albert had two, and Black Henderson, Scott Daniels, and Jan Berlage had one each. Freshman Will Winship played a solid game in his first start on defense, and his efforts were supported by the us11al cast of defensive stalwarts. With two solid wins under their belts, and a strong momentum at their backs, Coach Priore will lead his team against a very talented Colgate team Saturday, April 29th. If the team continues to play at the same level, they should emerge wiili a victory, and even a National ranking. Potential honors as ide however, the task remains to beat Colgate, and continue to build up momentum before the ECAC playoffs roll around. Women's Through Track Snow, Excels Wind By SHORTCAKE When the women's track team arrived at the Colgate Invitational track meet last Saturday, the dark and gloomy · clouds let loose a blizzard worse than they had seen all . winter. Though the snow did · not last, the gale force winds : did, making conditions difficult. As a result, the jumping events were moved inside. To make matters worse, the women faced 15-20 tough teams, including Division II Syracuse University. Despite such adversity, the women had an excellent day. In the 800 m run, Union was well represented by running sensations Meg Parsons, Lynne Erdman, Deb Danforth In a field of 15-20 tough teams .•• \Sandy Anselment surprised even herself by running a personal record for the season and placing 6th with a time of 5:09.6\ in the 1500 meter run. and Denise McMillan. Meg, normally a 400 m runner, and Lynne worked together against the tough competition to nab tenth and eleventh place finishes. Meg barely outleaned Lynne as they finished in 2:33.72 and 2:34.92 respectively. Deb and Denise were almost as strong in their heat of the 800 as they finished in 2:39.74 and 2:42.25 respectively. In the 200 m dash, Rika Poor, still recovering from a recent bout with mono, sprinted her way to a tenth place finish with a time of 13.54 seconds. She then came back to :power her way through the 200 m dash in 27.27. In the 1500 m run, Sandy Anselment surprised even herself by running a personal record for the season and placing sixth with a time of 5:09.6. In the field events, the women pmvided yet another impressive showing. in the triple jump, Natalie Gifford jumped her way to an all-time personal record. In the shot put, Alix Goldschmidt muscled a heave of 10.86 m to obtain the fifth place honor. Then, in the javelin, Alix had a throw of 30.48 m, which was good for another fifth place. Joining Alix in the javelin were Beth J ewitt and Kim Reynolds who threw 18.31 m and 18.02 m respectively. Finally, in the 4 x 400 m relay, the team of Rika, Denise, Lynne and Deb pooled their strength to run an exciting 4:29.34 that kept the fans sitting on the edge of their seats. The women will try to tum in another strong showing at the Hartwick Invitational track meet this weekend. Do you like fast curs, hot bodies and free beer? So do we - Come join us, you'll like us. WRITE FOR CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS Call Greg, 374-2489 or Scott, 386-4347

,, ,} Vol. ·CXVIII, No. 17 Schenectady, New York April 6, 1989 '. ' I Inter-Departmental Concordiensis Attends AAC Close To Final Decision On Revised Geltime Schedule MajQ,rs At. Union Revie·wed B·y A-cademic Affairs Council Student Conference On Investigative Journalism By J'ENNIFER HOLMES The Academic Affairs ::;<Jrnmittee recently has begun' to discuss the validity pf interdepartmental majors .. Currently ..they are in the process of gathering infor- mation. The Union College Academic Register states that ''interdepartmental majors will beapproved by the chairmen of the particular departments involved only if a clear and mfficient rationale is presented for the schOlarly relationships among the various components @ftlle major.\ · Pr()fesso r Byron Nichols has made a major/minol\\ pr()posal in which there W(}\lld be heavy cc>ncentrations on one major and lesser concentration in a min_or. In some departments, this reqllirement is more clo&ely adhered to than others. In some cases, this requirement causes stud~fi1S to falsify their 'scholarly' reasons for declaring an interdepartrnental major. Realistically, they may be pursuing two areas which interest them and may stretch the coherence of these majprs. Three major avenues are being expl~red. Some committee members believe tltat there should be a relationship . between majors. Departments would then have to wot:k together oil · interdepartmental requirements. · Professor Byron Nichols has . . made a major/minor ·:Proposal · • in which there would be a heavy concentration on one major and a lesser ' concentration in a minor. The · minor would not conflict with .the major. For example one ·. could take fourteen courses in ;political science (major) and take only six ceurses in .. :biology (minor). Finally the By ELISE FOODY News Editor For more than five months, z members of the Academic § Affairs Council have been ~ debating various class schedule 0 proposals. According to w legislation passed when ~ o:. Geltimc was first enacted, the committee is .discussing the · · possibility of a co-departmenfal major in which one would· be fu College was required to o establish a committee to § review the Gcltime system a. after a trial period of two years. Sam Donaldson, for.~r~er ABC Whit~ House correspondent, In compliance with this ruling, addres$es student journalists at InvestigativE! Conference. the Gcltime Committee was .able to e\plore two areas of By SUSAN D. SHAFFER . .interest without them Edilor•in-Chief conflicting intellectually. . , Union College jou.malists Professor IJai:o' Marten says · 1 were among representatives . \that right now the committee from over 60 colleges from is concentrating on gathering across the country, at the 1989 information.\ The committee Student Conference for wants to find out how many interdepartmental majors there a-e at Un1on, what are the common interdepartmme!J.!;;tl majors, when do students declare an interdepartmental major. and how important is the coherence and intenneshing of majors to the departments themselves. · Does the interdepartmental major work at Union or is it just a pretense? The AAC will address these questiQns and related ones within the next few months. · Sam Donaldson, former White .Hmtse correspondent. for ABC news offered \A View of Washington,\ in which he was able to- share his expereince as well as offer advice for the many i future journalists in attendanc~. Investigative Journalists. This conference provided informative workshops. panel discussions, Delta Chi Appeal Denied SAC Reviews Issue A Third Time By R. REED WHIDDEN Editor-in-Chief The Delta Chi Fraternity appealed to The Student Affairs Committee on March 30 to , reverse their decision to recommend that the fraternity's housing priviliges be revoked , at the start of the 1989-1990 school year. In its third time before the Committee, the decision to revoke the house's .privilege was again , unanimous, President of Delta Chi, Mike Cseh, former President of Delta Chi, Pete Belden, Alumni Board of Trustees President Pat McGivern, '49, and David Plume, '.81 were those who attended the meeting on behalf of the fraternity. They presented the Committee with a petition signed by 1,086 students in favor of reversing the decision. Cseh also offer~d · a guarantee to fill the house at 97 percent~35 brothers to fill 35 out of 36 beds in the house-in the fall of neJtt year. Five students, three faculty members, and the Dean of Students. Joseph Mammola, constitute the Committee. Mammola stated that the true issue is one of housing rather than a focus against the house itself. Professor J. Douglass Klein stated in an earlier article in Concnrdiensis that \Delta Chi ha:s fallen short of meeting Ole housing occupancy policy in the past three years.\ According to Mammola, \the Commhtee has worked with the fraternity and has been understanding and SAC feels in order to be fair to all other students who want campus housing, the decision had to be made.\ and lectures in which nation'ally renowned reporters offered their advice towards skills, tactics .• and strategies of investigative reporting. Sam Donaldson, former White House correspondent for ABC news, offered \A view of Washington\ in w!'ich he was able to share his experiences, as well as offer advice for the many future journalists in attendance. He told an amusing anecdote involving former United States President Ronald Reagan. At one of the many press conferences Mr. Reagan held during his time in office, Liberalism permeated throughout the conference . . . Victot· Navasky, editor of The Nation . . . defined his role by saying, \I will do everything I can to destroy corporate America. in giving a statement regarding an MX missile compromise, Helen Thomas, reporter for the Associated Press asked, \What is the compromise, Mr. President?\ Regan then turned Continued on page 3 formed and as a result, much time and effort have been put into the qcvclopmcnt of a new class schedule. The most recent and most supported sc:hcdule has currently been placed before the AAC and is pending approval. There are several unique characteristics of this proposal. Among them are the fact that most classes will begin five minutes earlier than they presently do (8:45 a.m.) and all classes (with the exception of labs) will finish by 3:30 p.m. The schedule also allows for foreign language classes to be taught four days a week and math classes to have the option of running 85 minutes long three days a week or 65 minutes long four days a week. The schedule features 150 minute classes Tuesday and Thursday with a required 10 minute break. Another characteristic of the schedule is that it accounts for the required \General Education Hour\ on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10:00 to 11:05. During this period, all freshmen will be taught either one course of the Continued on page 4 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The last of the spring break bathing beauties.

1877 VoL CXVIII, No. 17 Schenectady, New York Apdl 6, 1989 Inter- Dep-artmental Majors At Union Reviewed By Academic Affairs Council By JENNIFER HOLMES The Academic Affairs 2ommittee recently has begun :o discuss the validity of m terdepartmen tal majors. 2urrently they are in the process of gathering infor- mation. The Union College Academic Register states that ''interdepartmental majors will be approved by the chairmen of the particular departments involved only if a clear and mfficient rationale is presented for the scholarly relationships among the various components of the major.\ Professor Byron Nichols has made a major/minor proposal in which there would be heavy concentrations on one major and lesser concentration in a minor. In some departments, this requirement is more closely adhered to than others. In some cases, this requirement causes students to falsify their 'scholarly' reasons for declaring an interdepartmental major. Realistically, they may be pursuing two areas which interest them and may stretch lhe coherence of these majors. interdepartmental req uirem.ents. Professor Byron Nichols has made a major/minor proposal in which there would be a heavy concentration on one major and a lesser concentration in a minor. The minor would not conflict with the major. For example one could take fourteen courses in political science (major) and take only six courses in biology (minor). Finally the committee is discussing the possibility of a co-departmental major in which one would be able to explore two areas of interest without them conflicting intellectually. Professor Harry Marten says \that right now the committee is concentrating on gathering information.\ The committee wants to find out how many interdepartmental majors there are at Union, what are the common interdepartmmental majors, when do students declare an interdepartmental major, and how important is the coherence and intenneshing of majors to the departments themselves. Does the interdepartmental major work at Union or is it just a pretense? The AAC will address these questions and related ones within the next few months. Concordiensis Attends Student Conference On Investigative Journalism AAC Close To Final Decision On Revised Geltime Schedule By ELISE FOODY News Editor For more than five months, z members of the Acatk mic ~ Affairs Council have b~cn Q debating various class schedule ~ proposals. According to t:J legislation pas sed when ~ Gcltime was first enacted, the in College was required to o establish a committee to ~ review the Geltime system a... after a trial period of two yc:us. Sam Donaldson, former ABC White House correspondent, In compliance with this ruling, addresses student journalists at Investigative Conference. the Geltime Committe~ was By SUSAN D. SHAFFER and lectures in which formed and as a result, mllch Editor-in-Chief nationally renowned reporters time and effort have bcefl put Union College journalists offered their advice towards into the development of a new ' were among representatives skills, tactics, and strategies of class schedule. from over 60 colleges from investigative reporting. The most recent and n1ost across the country, at the 1989 Sam Donaldson, former supported schedule l~as Student Conference for White House correspondent for currently been placed before the Sam Donaldson, former White House correspondent for ABC news offered \A View of Washington,\ in which be was able to share his , expereince as well as offer advice for the many 1 future journalists in attendance. Investigative Journalists. This conference provided informative workshops, panel discussions, ABC news, offered \A view of AAC and is pending approval. Washington\ in w~ich he was There are several unique able to share his experiences, characteristics of this propo~al. as we11 as offer advice for the Among them are the fact tllat many future journalists in most classes will begin fi vc attendance. He told an amusing minutes carl icr than tl1ey anecdote involving former presently do (8:45 a.m.) an<! aU United States President Ronald classes (with the exceptio11 of Reagan. At one of the many labs) will finish by 3:30 p_Jn. press conferences Mr. Reagan The schedule also allows for held during his time in office, foreign language classes to be taught four days a week ;tnd math classes to have the ortion of running 85 minutes lt>ng Liberalism permeated throughout the Three major avenues are being explored. Some committee members believe that there should be a relationship between majors. Departments would then have to work together on Delta Chi Appeal Denied SAC Reviews Issue A Third Time conference ..• Victor Navasky, editor of The Nation ... defined his role by saying, \( will do everything I can to destroy corporate America. in giving a statement regarding an MX missile compromise, Helen Thomas, reporter for lhe Associated Press asked, \What is the compromise, Mr. President?\ Regan then turned Continued on page 3 three days a week or 65 minutes long four days a week. The schedule features I 50 minute classes Tuesday and Thursday with a required 10 minute break. Another characteristic of the schedule is that it accounts for the required \General Educ<:>tion Hour\ on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10:00 to 11:05. During this period, all freshmen will be taught either one course of the Continued on page 4 By R. REED WHIDDEN EditorGin-Chief The Delta Chi Fraternity appealed to The Student Affairs Committee on March 30 to '::q:l\''''\'- 411 reverse their decision to recommend that the fraternity's housing priviliges be revoked at the start of the 1989-1990 school year. In its third time before the Committee, the decision to revoke the house's privilege was again unanimous. President of Delta Chi, Mike Cseh, former President of Delta Chi, Pete Belden, Alumni Board of Trustees President Pat McGivern, '49, and David Plume, '81 were those who attended the meeting on behalf of the fraternity. They presented the Committee with a petition signed by 1 ,086 students in favor of reversing the decision. Cseh also offered a guarantee to fill the house at 97 percent-35 brothers to fill 35 out of 36 beds in the house-in the fall of next year. Five students, three faculty members, and the Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, constitute the Committee. Mammola stated that the true issue is one of housing rather than a focus against the house itself. Professor J. Douglass Klein stated in an earlier article in Concordiensis that \Delta Chi has fallen short of meeting the housing occupancy policy in the past three years.\ According to Mammola, \the Committee has worked with the fraternity and has been understanding and SAC feels in order to be fair to all other students who want campus housing, the decision had to be made.\ • ,-~ ~ PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The last of the spring break bathing beauties. 0 1-- 2 c... ~ u:

.. Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS ~pril 6?. 1989 Qtnn cnrbi.ensts ', . NEWS ANALYS.IS By BRUCE HAY,. JR. Much has been said about the dangers of dri vin,g while intoxicated. Every driver education program, and. every television news program bombards the public with the deadly outcomes from this criminal activity. However. little has been mentioned about the dangers of boating while intoxicated. Thousands of people die each summer in alcohol-related boating accidents and. just last week, millions of people and animals began to be affected because of BWI. By BRAD MONDSCHEIN Lately, the environment has been on the mind of the American people and the political establishment. Last year, President Bush made the issue an important piece of his campaign. The concern was brought to the foreground by the syringes washing up on the Atlantic beaches along with other medical waste. This was not the first environmental Exxon Oil Spill Creates Economic, Ecological Disaster For Alas·ka In Valdez, Alaska, on a reef in Prince WiLliams Sound, the tanker ran agr9und and began to spill some 240,000 barrels of crude oil into the sound. The reasons are not completely clear, but evidently the captain of the ship, Joseph Hazelwood, was under the influence of alcohol and left the piloting of the ship to a member ofthe crew who was not qualified to do so. Hazelwood is currently sought for questioning to 'Solve the questions of what happened. The ramifications of such a spill are profound. Many fisher.rnen face the loss of their livelihood as the oil seeps towards salmon hatch,ing grounds. Otters, birds, fish. and many other animals are at danger. The oil coats the skin .and' poisons or destrOY,S the Environmental Issues Force Greater Pofjtical A.wareness · issue that spurred debate over the environment, but,. since it affected many people, the politicians had to take notice. After the medical waste scare, there was the fire in Yosemite Park that was caused by the drought in the midwest. The fire led · to the government questioning the policy of allowing the fires to burn themselves out. As a result of the fire policy, many acres of the forest have been flattened and must start anew. As well, this winter's warm tempratures sparked debate about the greenllouse effect of warming the earth. Recently, many politicians have taken notice of the disaster in Alaska; the Exxon oil spill. The environmental issues have become a main focus in national politics. The Reagan era has brought this about in a couple of ways. First, the winding down of the Cold War SPAA, Oxfam Urge Change In .Current United States Policy Towards Sudan By KARA MERRILL Peace is more thall a \nice idea'; for the people of southern Sudan; it is a necessity if they are to survive. For the past five years, a civil·war, which has taken the lives of one million people, has been the torment of the citizens of Sudan. Although their country is a fertile one, starvation is rampant as a result of government and rebel army destruction_ of the land of the south. In addition, tb.ese armies have prevented emergency food shipments from northern Sudan, as well as most aid from other countries. S tarvatiop. is · not the only . atrocity that the Sudanese must face. In the chaos of war, they are also threatened with landmines, rape, abduction into slavery and having their homes burned to the ground. Two million people have chosen to flee the south, and now live a life almost as dismal in crowded shanty towns in the north. These refugees have been forced to do without the most basic of government services; such as water and primary education. In one refugee camp in Abyei, no children under the age of 2-1/2 have survived. The U.S., unfortunately, has played a role in this tragedy for the peopie of Sudan by giving \the Sudanese government millions of dollars a year in economic aid {the Sudanese government reportedly spends a million dollars a day on the war). Oxfam America, a non- pro fit, non- sectarian organization which sponsors relief and development programs world-wide. asks Americans to write to President Bush and ask for a change .in our policy on Sudan. This includes new diplomatic initiati~ves and humanitarian aid, along with pressure on Sudan to allow outside aid to those who desperately need it. Even ·if you do not take action on this issue. you should be aware of the policy that our coun~y holds on Sudan. and the consequences this policy has for the people living there. natt:Jral protective qualities of the fur or feathers. The whole ecclogy of the area is at da~ger - bee~use of Hazelwood's negl,igence. One .of the many issues .brought to light by tb.is spill is the tremendou.sly .... inadequate procedures and contingency plams of E?Cxon and the federal go:vernrnent for cleaning up the oil. Delays have allowed the oil to spread beyond the reach of absorbent booms that co-ntain th·e· oil. The tides and current spread the oil to an area the size of Rhode Island which makes the spraying ·of dispersant chemicals difficult. Unfortunately the hulk of the clean-up effort is spent d;oing just that, cleaning up the coast lines instead .of stopping the sprelld. The government has not prepared itself to clean up at this 'stage. The only ded.ic:ated effort is. being waged - by tile State of Alaska. Booms ami suction ships are being placed strategically to take adv-antage of currents and the with the Soviet (Jnion has lessened people's concern about tne foreign policy issues that usl!ally are the mai,n focus of politicians. As · well, the stre11gth of the economy has ,, silenced critics of Reaganomics fo( tile tithe being. Therefore, tlie e.nvironment has become \the issue of the day.\ Robert Straou:!)S. former chairman of the Dem()ctatic National Comittee, was quoted in Th·'e New ·York Tlnies ~as saying that environmental issues \have bee11 raised .from a second-level pri()rity to a first-level prionty .\ Along with the drug prQI:llem and education, environmental issues should be a first-level priority until an()tiler .policy takes their plaoo. It ~hould be recognized, . however, that progress in the world is not always going to be ~tchieved without mistakes. The space program, nuclear energy, and oil production geograp~yof the area, but .meir. efforts' are ~<>o late. Had Exxon handled tile clean~up· effort effectively at the beginning instead' of deliberating over techniques~ Alaska would .not ·have had to. divert public funds to deal witll the problem of a private company. . Ironically, as one Coast Guard c;£'£icial said, a child could pilot a ship in the sound. Because of intoxication, the captain was obligatged to hand over his ship to an unflualified crew Member. The accident has led to tile canceUadon of the herring season which means .a loss of l2 million dollars to local fishetmen,. a six-month de~UH:lp·effott. and destruction of a wllole ecological system. · If Americans are worried about intoxicated people operating vehicles tilat weigh two tons and are eighteen feet long, maybe they should also worry about intucixate·d people operating vehicles that dispalce a hundred .tllousand tons and are 9~0 feet long. cannot be halted completely due to L<Jw percentage dangers that might occur. The administrative bodies and the private enterprises tllat indulge in such. innovative processes Rob~rt Strauss., former chairma11 of . the National Committee' was. quoted in the N~w York Times as saying, \·environmental · issues ·have been· raised from a se\ond~levei to· a: first,;leve'l ,priority.\ should incorporate all that is technologically available to make the processes safe. However, few will argue that progress m11st continue and the problems worked out as it move-s along. Having the eQYironment as a great concern to:.many people will help to point 0111 the problems that exist. The new emphasis on the issue, thougil, should not halt the progress being made. . AI] AD HOC Committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Assistant Professor . Mark Joher of the Classics Department The Committee consists of Profs. p·eter Heinegg, English Dept.; George Shaw, Geology Dept.; Robert Bake-r, Philosophy Dept.. Anyone wishing to provide information in the form of leiter of oral testimony; please contact Associate . Professor Robert Baker, Philosophy Dept.; ·~ extension 6215. · · REAPPOINTMENT REVmW FOR PROF. TRAVER The. Electrical Engineering{ Computer Science Dept. is conducting a reappoint~ ment review for Assistant Prof. Cherrice Traver. All members of the college eommunity who have knowledge of Prof. Traver's teaching, professional activities or college service activities are encouraged -to contribute either in written or oral iesti~ony to Prof. Edward Craig, Prof. .J agdish Gaiiar, Prof. Ekram Hassib, or Prof. George Williams. ' ] B E aJ S< a1 a1 A H 0 a p \ u S] ii 0

' I ' CONCORDIENSlS April 6, 1989 Page 3 Local Sociological Association · To Host Anniversary Conferenc.e At Union By MARCI SILVERMAN The SociologistS· of Upstate Eastern New York (SUENY),, an .association of practicing .~ sociologists in the geographic area, win hold their tenth annual meeting on .Friday, . April 14, 'at 1:15 p.m. jn Hale House. In honor ·Of· ·th~ organhation's .tenth.. anniversary' renowned ' Professor of Sociology'; Dennis · Wron.g of .New York ' University, wil'l present a speech focusing on · \the influence ofsociological ideas on American culture.\ Local sociologists and several professors of the local preeminent academic institutions from Union, SUNYA, Skidmore, RPI, Russell Sage, and St. Rose founded SUENY jn 1979. Its pm;pose was to create an opportunity for all people interested in sociology to learn of the newest advancements and wonders of the field while 1 · actively participating in the geneml.discussion. This group is an· informal organization with no officers or budget. The tradition of rotating . these one-afternoon public meetings among the loc~~ , Goll,eg~s remain.s . a · primary deter.min,l;lllt in the . location of ·the annual '. conferences. As a result of J}le \ college's donation of au . Internal Education Foundation (IEF) grant, the conference will take place on campus. Union will benefit from hosting the convention as the faculty will have .th.e opportunity to share teaching · experiences and innovations : SUMMER JOBS with faculty from other schools. The presence of state · and social service wcrke:rs encourages discussions of relationships between academic . and applied work.. A central. · advantage of holding tke .·. conference on campus lies in the opportunity of student · participation and attendance. SUENY encourages students interested in sociological careers as well as any others to take part in the informal conversations with the · professional sociologists. Professor Wrong's renowned accomplishments are two-fold a~ he actively practices as an author as well a~ a sociologist. A large number of his essays appear in presd.gious • magazines and the completion of two bOoks further enhances his impressive repertoire. Th~ chi~f organizer_ of the ·tenth anniversary SUENY meeting, Donileen Loseke. Professor of Sociology at Union, scheduled the notable speaker, Professor : Wrong. as she feels .his words · appeal to \a wide audience\ as • he pr:esents \an intriguing set • of ideas.\ She first witnessed Wrong's speech at a convention in Atlanta and found his words • \fascinating and provocative,\ and found his ideas applicable to. all, iqcluding economis~s. ·. and philosophical ;,1nd political ' · thinkers. Wrong incorporates · in his speeches .. - political polling and marketing . techniques, which are sociological issues. A great · quality of Professor Wrong as perceived by rroressor Loseke, is his ability to be humorous · while maintaining a \tremendously intellectual\ attitude. Unive!Sitv of California at San!ll Cruz is offering courses in a variety of languages at their Summer Language Institute '89. College New Rochelle, located in New ~ochcll~, NY, has openings f~r their pre-med bealthcarc el\temship for the summer of 1989: APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRil.. 15. Universitv of Rochester, is offering programs to prepare students for a career in :Management. Located in Rochester, NY. South Street Se;~port Museum has exciting and •hallenging dockhand positions open for this sumn:er. Located in NY, NY. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 14. Johrt Hopkins University is accepting applications for teaching positions at various locations. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRll..15. . Dartmouth Outing Club Resraurnnt, located in the Upper Valley of New Hampshire is now accepting applications for their ~ulillller staff. APPLICA T!ON DEADLINE: APRIL 8. New·Yor!;: I:Iospital-Comell Me.dicnl Center is now acccpting.applications for the pre-career pracrlctim in Mental Health.. ***FOR MORE 1:\\FORMATION ON TIIESE JOBS OOMORE, COME TO THE CDC. INTERNSHIPS • Colby College of WatervUie, ME is seeking a career Services Intern. • Responsibilities include resume and cover letter assistance, coordinatiort a fbi· weekly rtewsl(:tter, familiarity with ,career resources, workshop presentations, and general assistance in the programs and services of the office. Deadline: April2f,l989 ' • Lamont House of Union College is now accepting applications for the openings of Development Interns. Applications are due no later than April3, 1989. • Art Education for the. Blind, a non-profit organization in New York City, has openings for interns to aid the director and also w_ork on ~dividual projects. The positions will be filled on a first-come, first-qualified bas1s. • The City of New York's Department of Housing :Preservation and Development announc~s its 1989 Surt:rner Internship _Frog~, Un?ergr~duate and graduate .students will be able to gam valuable public sector expenence m technical, administrative and professional capacities under close guidance and support of Agency supervisors. • • The New York City Department of Transportation has paid internships available this SI.Ui'lrtler for graduate students pu111uing.master's an<Vor doct2!,llte degrees. Application deadline: Aprill4, 1989. ••• More infonnation on these and many other internships is available at the Career Development Center located on the third floor of Old Cluipel. .. ~ ....... ~ ... ~ The meeting willllegin with Professor Wro11g as the key- note speaker. Following his speech~ a panel of wdl-ltilow.n, local sociologi& ts including: Lynd.a Ames of th~ Center for Women in Government; Richard HalJ: of the State University cf N:ew York, Albany; Paul Mun:y of Siena College; Terry Weiner of Union College; ami Dennis Wrong of New York University; vdU lead. an informal di sctusion -on · \Sociology in ,the 1990's\ at 3·:00 p.m. At the close of the mooting, all tbose interested in further discussion of sociological issttes Ne invited to attend a rece:pti()n 'held at 4: 15 p .. m. Siace the college will be hosti11.g tile SUENY conference, all facility members and students we welcome to attend free ofcbug;e .. Ralph Nader. consumer advocate and professional citizen, fields questions from student jomnalists of the ·so dif.ferent cerleges in attendance. I .Sam Donaldson, Ralph :Nader,. Coli-n McCarthy Headline D.C. J·ournalism Conference Continued from p~ge 1 ' to ot1e of his aides and said, \I don't know, what is it?\ Mr. Donaldson used this as an example of how a reporter need I not ask complex questions in 1 order to find out information. · Tbrough b.is use of simple i questions, Sam Donaldson cl.a.lms that be had incurred \Reagan to fall prostrate to the ground.\ \Investigating your campus administration\ was one workshop which was found to be of particular interest. Jeff Goldwassl!r ·of dw National S tudcnt News Service offered many tips in _finding out the real facts on campus. Such tactics that were introduced included digging through refuse ' in seard1 of information, treating an administration as a 01 .1. • . 1· ·t •(·I· · N· . .. corporation, and making . . ICe n s .a s . ew ' effective use of the Freedom of ~. . . c· . . . . p h it Information Act. Outstd·e · ... ourtesy . . oneS:' Liberalism permeated · throughout the conference. The The Teleconnnrt:umications Proper use of both the new advice offen~d by Victor Office recently installed five courtesy p:hones and the 1 Nav~sky, e_duor of _The outside cou11tesy phones to emergency hot-line phones will ~aho~, a _hberally one~ted enhance dormit()ry security. ens 11 re a safer environment for mvesttgattve magazme, The new phon.~:;; .are located at · the cawpu$ community. exemplifi~d this attitud~. ~.e the entran~e:s ()f three defined hrs role by saymg I residential halls; West College will do everything I. ca?, to (both entrances;} South LOCATION OF destroy corporate Amenca. He CoUege {West entr;nce), and COURTESY PHONES off~red amateur journalists the Fox Dor:m.it()ry (both advtce that they sho11ld learn to . entrances). Thepkones are wall 1. West College (both \betray the people who par sets housed ill grey boxes . entrances) you, defend _those who don t which have campus• only 2. South College (West read you, befriend ~c homeless calling capabili~. The purpose entrance) and pretend to be m a countt;Y of the new phon:¢8 is to reduce 3. Fox Dormitory (both wh.ere r.eople_ read what s potential sec11rity problems ·entrances) wntten. Cohn McCarthy, which may resu.lt from fo~nder o~ the C~nter for Peace, propped-open. d<>ors that LOCATION OF a !1beral JOurnalist and a good permit, unautllori:zed access to EMERGENCY PHONES fnen.? of Ralph Na~cr, .spoke residential hall11. A guest may on ~ow t? .~adtcahze a now call from the dorm 1. 27 North 'Terrace Lane Centn~t Media. He_ supported entrance to a1ln()Ul1Ce his/her 2. Southeast Corner Arts Nader s efforts as dtd most of arrival and to $k the occupant Building the quests. . of the dorm t<J ~ome down and 3. East Side Achilles Rink Present all weelcend._ Ralph open the door. 111 the event of 4. East Side Bailey Hall Nade~ was able to 1 • mvonke an emergency, tile caller can 5. Corner of South College que~uons~ of~e: adv ce, a d also call college security (ext. (at South Terrace Lane and · mottvate participants. It was 691l) for assistanoee. South Lane) Nader. who s~arked the we would .als() like to 6. Northeast Corner of ~ormatt.o~ of a nauon~l stu?cnt remind the cantpus. community Davidson JO~rnaltst orgamzat.lO~. that there are nine red outdoor 7. Southwest Corner of Michael ~eary. of Kmg s emergency,h()t-line telephones Humanities . College ~~ Wtlkes .. Barre, which when lifted off-hook, 8. Northeast ·Corner of the Pennsylvama headed the effo~ immediately llotify security Social Sciences Building pr~mpt~d by Na~e~. Thts that there is apr~blem at that 9. Public Relations Building . natmnwid7network ts mtendcd 1 · u· n · · (17 South Lane) . to benefit all college and oca o . · · b · umverstty newspapers y Sec·urlty Incident Report Date Time Location 3/21 7:55.At.M S&E Building 3/21 2:30PM S&E Building 3/21 7:35PM College Center 3/22 11::24PMI· Delta Chi 3/23 ~·:3ClAM Phi Sigma Kappa 3/23 10::30\M Steinmetz Hall 3/25 7:2c:JAM Blue Gate 3/26 2:1·~PM Fox House Incident Theft reported from faculty member's office. Theft of cash reported from staff member's purse~ Report of suspicious person. Vandalism,.broken window.. Vandalism-window pushed in . Campus telephone damaged. S'mall tree on South side of gate discover- ed pushed over • Vandalism-broken lounge window. offering a base to which to turn for ideas, advice, and a sense of camaraderie. The network will act as a pool of information of participating colleges and universities shedding light on issues concerning institutions of higher education across the country. Nader's perpetual presence evoked the other speakers to praise his personal achievements and -effort. The professional journalists supported Nader l>y stressing that we must all challenge authority and question alleged facts. This conference proved to be particularly beneficial since Union College offers no courses in journalism.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS April 6~ 1989 A Plateful Of Questions Hosts · Citizenship Training Workshops At Union New Gel time Schedule .Seeks· More Attractive· Class Times And Fewer Scheduling Conflicts Continued from Page 1 History Sequence they have ch,osen, or Freshman Preceptorial. Therefore, no other freshmen courses will be taught during this period. By DEB LUCEY and JANE HACKETT David Yaskulka. from the Center for Common Security, will be visiting Union College next week to present two workshops exploring the process of how students learn ami the role students play in their education. A Plateful of Questions, a student, faculty and administration group; is organizing this presentation. The workshops, Education for Powerful Citizenship and Leadership and Empowerment, stem from the work of Williams College graduates Dominic Kulik and David Yaskulka. While attending Williams. these men established fully accredited student~initiated and student~run classes, with faculty participating only as advisors for final projects. Part of the Center's goal is to establish nationwide student-run courses modeled after the one started at Williams. The workshops being brought to Union could be instrumental in developing learning skills in students essential for a successfui honor system at th~ Colle;ge. Other skills which are develDpcd will empower students to write more comprehensive and analytic senior theses and research papers. Kulik .and Yaskulka concentrate on independent analytiGallearning with emphasis. on student initiative and responsibility. The long range goals of these workshops are for students to take these developed skills and apply d1em in a demographk partie ipation in our complex socio-economic environment The assumption is that students cannot be passive consumers of information but can be empowered to investigate altemative social policies. Such an application of acquired skills and knowledge leads to responsible citizen participation. Please come and Jlarticipate in the works.hops made available to you by a Plateful of Questions so you can empower your own ooocation. Professor Lewis of the Economics Department is the author of the new schedule. His proposal, along with six others were placed before the AAC for review several months ago and Professor Lewis' proposal (which has been slightly · modified from the original version) is the one whieh the AAC believes to be the most feasible schedule~ In designing the proposal. Professor Lewis aimed to \create more attractive class · meeting times and to recluce .the number of conflicts students .face when detenn.ining their . schedules.\ He stated that although there are currently five class periods Menday, · . Wednesday and Friday. and two class periods Tuesday and Thursday, many students do not utilize the respective 3: 15 to 4:20 and 2:40 to 4:20 time slots. To amend this .pr:oblem for the future, Professor Lewis has Professor Bradley Lewls developed the class schedule propasal cutrently before the AAC. manipulated these time slats in such a manner that they will be replaced with what he believes will be more appealing to the student. The fact that classes such as the foreign languages will be taught four days a week will not interfere at all with those students' schedules. This is because four separate time slots outside of the Monday, Wednesday. Friday scheduling have been set aside expressly for this purpose. A copy of the .proposed schedule has been sent to Professor Kellenter (Chair, Modem Languages), Professor Zwicker (Chair, Mathematics). ])wight Wolf (Registrar) and the appropriate Deans of the College. For the most part the sc.hedule h.as received significant ·support. With a little luck., the AAC will finally pass the proposal within the next few weeks. If this happens, the schedule will go into effect Winter Term 1990. In any case. members of the Oeltime Committee are eagerly looking ;forward to putting this w~ng .giant back to sleep. · DUTCHMAN'S DINNER Kate White, BA in English '12, now Editor-In~Cbi6f of the new Child magazine, formerly Executive Editor of M~dellJ.ciseU~~ will share · ' 'stra~gies an1i iiuri,tqrqp~, , .!.'.~~- ,,c_.f.\\·~·.;l~.»..,~' ~~·-~''' :.· · TtJesaay, · Ap.ri:l· ~t~a.·. ·· ·· ... , .. ·.· ..... _. .... ~ .. ,. ... , 1 ... ; .. · .. ~ . ~necdotes~roni]le'r' ' •· Sign up Early to Insure Your Reservation : ·' background in: .. ·- ·~~tting What You Want: · : How to Survive and · • · Thrive in: the M.ENU·WI.LL F'EATURE: Working World~\ . , -~ Thursday, April6, · ·u, 12:ao pm:, oc 41o Sliced london brt;Jil, mushroom sauce Chicken breast deluxe pt::,_,. ... ~,. . Later she ·will - '~;,·talk informally on: ~· S·hrimp scampi Veal Parmesan : 'uwhat is Magazine Publishing All About?\ RESERVE AT THE DUTCH HO:LLOW She says it's exciting, fun and a lot easier to bl'eak into than you.think. Thursday, April6, 2:00 pm, CC 410 OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE EXPANDED 1989-90 COMMON THEME HOUSING Interested in a new way of living? The Office of Residence Life invites students to propose new residential groups combining living and learning in COMMON THEME CO-ED HOUSING for 1989·90. Proposals must demon· strata an integral connection to the academic program of the College and show how the group's living together will pro. mote the personal, social, and especially Intellectual growth of its members and the College Community_ A primary goal of each group will be to pormote student·faculty interaction outsde the classroom and to enhance the intellectual life of the campus. A typical group will be fairly representative of all class years. More cOmplete , details are available at the Office of Residence Life, 405 CC. ANNUAL COMPETITIO-N FOR FULBRIGHT AND OTHER GRADUATE STUDY GRANTS OPENS The United States Information Agency (USIA) and the Institute of International Education (liE) announce the official opening on May 1, 198 9 of the 1990~91 competition for Fulbright Grants and other grants for graduate study abroad in academic fields and for professional training in the creative and performing arts. The purpose of these grants. is to increase mutual understanding between the people pf the United States and other countrie:s through the exchange of persons, knowledge and ~kills. Fulbright Grants are funded under the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange. Act of 1961 through a11 annual appropriation made by Congress to USIA and by foreign governments, -universities, corporations and private donors. Participating governments an.d host institutions in many countries also contribute. Fulbright Grants are available for study or research. Travel grants are available to selected countries to supplement maintenance awards from other sourc~s that do not provide funds for international travel or to supplement the ~pplicant's personal funds. For all grants.j. applicants must be U.S. citizens at the time of application and hold a bachelor's degree or its equivalent by th.e beginning date of the grant. Creative and performing artists are not required to have a bachelor's degree, but they must have four years relevant training or study. Candidates irt medicine must have an M.D. or equivalent· (e.g., D.D.S., O.D., etc.) at the time of application. All applicants are required to have -sufficient proficiency in the language of the host country to carry out their proposed study or research. Fulbright GrantS provide round-trip international travel, maintenance for the tenure of the grant and tuition waivers, if applicable. Travel grants provide round-trip international travel to the country where the student will pursue study or research. All grants include basic health and accident insurance. Complete program and application information is contained in the brochure, \Fulbright and other grants for graduate study abroad, 1990-91. 11 Students should contact Professor Donald Thurston, the Fulbright Program Adviser on campus, located in SS · 213B .for brochures, application forms and further infonnation. The deadline for the receipt of applications is October 15, 1989. Both Fulbright Full and Travel Grant applications will be reviewed on campus prior to being forwarded to liE for the October 31, 1989 deadline. \• ',.I I .~ • I • ' ' .. 11]11 l I

I I . ' . CONCQRVlENSIS April 6; 1989 Page 5 ................... ~~......-----~ ....... --------------------------- FEAT.URE.S The Pursuit Of Happiness . . . Uy \ALOE\ISHZIOUS BOOT Alias Vance, Noodle & Boot I woke up an hour early only to find. that I was already an hotLr behind. 1 stumbled downstairs to see if I could still catch lunch, no such luck. The sun, however, was shining. I didn't make it back upstairs. No food and no shower; there is no better way to start a day. Work would be in vain, higher laws prevailed. First one couch, then a second came out to the courtyard.· A book walked by, heading towards Schaffer I can only assume. Music was turned on. lax sticks emerged, the sun continued· its work and skin drank its rays. Only one person had smoke, so it was passed. A few heavy enders walked by, thin.gs were mucho ·entertaining. We noticed the ice in our glasses. Little gems refracting and deflecting light. The cubes helped to make the drinks look as valuable . as they actually were. Kool-Aid flavor crystals had gathered on the ice during the mixing. Rough and sweet were the only two friends m ' tlte<g:litss:·· · < · • A book 'bas called security, the music must be turned down. It must be ••napping · hours\ alreadY:. Damn! All at once the players the tanners. the readers the sitters and the heavy enders quit what they were doing and stretched oat on the muddy ground where the grass had better soon be planted, Parents' Weekend is right around \someone's\ comer. We slept vety well for the dUl'ation. lt proved to be good .for us all, after the six fire alarms space(! evenly over last night .. Grin and bear it they say. A few uf us still needed to purchase books for someone's . class. We cruised on over to ye or bookstore. They have a tendency to take people for all they're wortlt .. Buy . an overpriced new text, sell it back for enough money to do two loads of wash, .then see it the next day on the shelf for almost the same inflated price as the new one. While those I was with were signing their checks I made use of the time. I stoie, stole and stole again. Helping the problem? No, but it existed before I came and I ,don't feel like carrying the burden, Kind of a Robin Hood in modem tim~. take from the business that shouldn't be. a business, but a service in the first place, an.d give to those who have fallen victim. I am a hero. Catch me if you can you bookstore you~ I, Robin Hood, am the one who screws up your balance sheets. Wi~h a feelin.g of \Aioe\isheious Boot, a day in the foggy mind. accomplishment under our Still more had come out to I've been wrcmg before. With belts ~din our sleeves, socks. join the crew. It's an. addiction, the music en 8 instead of 10 shirt pockets and trousers we at times you shouldn't but the we let the rest of the day drift headed home with wide grins pull of action over education The last frisbee was thrown, on our faces. The footballs; always proves too strong. That the last football intercepted and baseballs, 'frisbees and soccer is oul\. long . tetlll weakness, people returned to their homes. balls were there to greet us: As alllio11gll it seems like a plus. I The day was over but not sure as mister sun will rise, trust tllings will settle down forgotten. I cC>u1d get used to shine, and set. we knew they with tbe onslaught of exams. I these days. So this is would be, they always are. could be wrong, lord knows college ... notbad I say. Tanning, Tight Tummies and Tropical Drinks The First Senior Ball By JACQUELINE RANDALL with dates. The evening will be geared to friends and good times. :By KRI~TIE ARNHOLD SPRING B:REAK: For millions of college students around the country these words signify tanning. tight tummies, and tropical drinks. It is a week where students take tlleir usual weekend activities, transport them to the warmer climate of Daytona (or another Fl<>rida-esque area), and pool their escapades in search of the mcst outrageous behavior award. S0me students actually do find fame and fun while otliers are left to fabricate their stories in order to stiffen the competition back on campus. Either way, the beginning of spring term is full of stories that make for great in-between- class chatting. Not,. many folks (on the Union campus at least) opted f()r the romantic couple vacation (this is not surprising as it has been determined that Union is not the place of choice for budding romances). Most went their separate ways wbile pledging vows of fidelity before bidding BON VOYAGE. There is the classic TEAM vacation with curfews, afternoon practices, and various noctutnal acti-yities. These, of course, leave nothing sacred to the imagination. It all leaks out sooner or later, what John did at this bar and who Jane snuck to the beach with. Male bonding seems to increase by immense proportions during these trips, which always results in innovative and interesting vocabulary such as \Throwing \Being shot down\ (this is a safe one to hear) •. and \Baving nothing\ (I'm not quite sure if this is good or bad). There is also the equally fascinating \ladies vacation.\ When men get together, it is called \bonding wpen women are in a group, it can be accurately described as \competing.\ This is not a sexist comment; but simply an ob§ervation. In the -south, women are treated very well; \ladies drink forfree\ or \ladies two for one\ nights are rampant throughout the southern states. Free drinks and several college · women on spring break make for lively entertainment. AlthotLgh the drinks were free~ there never seemed. to be enough and they never came too quickly. Drinks, drinks and more drinks resulted in drunkt drunker. and some of the drunkest women ever to walk the Florida! Alabama line. Whether male or female, one of the most important processes during spring break is that of tanning. After all, one's-Yacation is going to be inevitably judged by the darkness of one's tan. It is safe to assume that most skin cancer has found its origins in Florida. Perhaps it could become the new state motif, \Florida the skin cancer state,\ but that would not be very conducive to attracting tourism. The conclusion can be drawn that it is impossible to get a safe, dark tan in one week. Almost every sunbather encounters uncomfortable burning, peeling, or even sunstroke at one time or another in his/her spring break career. AND WHY? So that tan little faces can poke out of the turtlenecks and parkas that d protect us from the ten inches of :snow which have faithfully fallen in Schenectady by April first In , retrospect, the whole scene sounds a bit silly, but ' Spring term ... friends ... good times... parties. All these things come together on Friday~ April 28 at the Senior Celebration at The Ramada Inn in Scllenectady. The Senior Class activities Committee organized the first annual black tie Senior Ball. This fonnal.event is intended to unify the Senior Class and celebrate the final term at Union College. It is the first of several activities, including \Disorientation sponsored by the Committee. \People should be enthusiastic. It is going to be a great event. But it will only be successful if all the Seniors get involved and go!,\ says one committee member. The Ball is designed so that seniors . may attend alone or Hors d'ocuvrcs will be served and the event will start at 9:00 p.m. and eud at 2:00 a.m. A disc jockey from QE II's in Albany will I:Je playing music. In addition, a deal was made with Cramer's Armory in which they would visit Union College and fit males for tuxedos at a substantial discount. Cramer's will deliver the tuxedos and pick them up after the formal. The Ramada is also offering discounts on rooms for Union College seniors for that night. Tickets. are on sale now for $12.50 per person at the College Center Box Office. If anyone is in teres ted in joinmg the committee for this event, contact Mq. Marra in the Student Activities office. The '89 Senior Gift Drive-- \Is there life after Union?' is well WtdeiWay, with over 200 donors and over $2700. Don't miss out on your chance to get a free class t-shirt and vote on the '89 senior class giftl spring break activity verges on being ritualistic in nature, and does not show signs of coming 1 • , to an end. in this century 1 anyway. 1 ._ ___________________ _.J

. Page 4l CONCORDlENSIS April 6, 1989 FEA·TURES The Health & Fitness 'Colulnn By JACQUELINE RAND~LL Now that we are back to school for 8prinz term, we are weating less clothing. The weather is nicer and we are more conscious. of our bodies and our eating llabits. With aU the concern fo~; health, there has been recent media attention about the safety of the foods we eat. Even the potetttially nutritious health foods may be hazardous to our health. Pesticide·s, fel'tilizers,- preservatives and 'additives ' . .~, ' pollute our food. Pesticides have been developed to kill unwanted organisms .. Pesticides ate toxic materials that produce their effects by several different mechanisms. 'Sometimes we arc exposed to these environmental hazards without knowing it. Environmental hazards can affect our body health, our life habits and our Those Who Write Well By ALAN NELSON The Writing Center, which will enter its sixth year in 1989-90, is looking for students who are interested in becoming Writing Tutors next year. We will hope to hire 4 or 5 new people to join the present staff. They need not qualify for Work-Study employment. Tutors work at the Writing Center about 8-10 hours each week, in the afternoons and evenings, working mainly with other students and their writing. They require orientation and training in the methods we use, and must be available for meetings prior to the opening of fall term, and weekly during the year. We want tutors who write well themselves, of course. But more important is the ability to help other students, without doing it for them. A good tutor is not just a \corrector.\ A knowle<;lge of mechanics aml gra!Jlmar · is' basic, but the tutor's real work is to help the writer in the process of his or her own composing. For that,_, ' the tutor must be reliable, patient, imaginative, and tactful. The tutor must resist the temptation to \take over\ someone else's writing. .- In its first five years, the Writing Center has worked with over 2,500 students, and the traffic this year is about double that of 1984-85. We are very proud of the work of our tutors this year, for their professional manner and the consistently fine performance, of their duties. So we are looking for a few good people tQ join the ranJcs of a strong organization. Interested stlldents should obtain an application from the Writing. Center in Whitaker House· in afternoons or evenings, or from my office in · Humanities 210 in the mornings. We will· also want to interview all applicants. Applicatioils should be submitted no, later than Monday, May 1 but we will ~elcome them before that. Springtime Survival Of The By SUZANNE SHAKER · Features Editor and Company With the arrival of spring long distance relationships are clearly endangered species. Those lucky, or unlucky, few who survived winter break and the chilly term are now goners. The \kissy kissy\ season has arrived. With the sweet smell of spring in the air and the blossoming of Jackson's Gardens there is a need to have a hand to hold, the invisible partners just no longer cut it. Those couples who spent the entire winter term snuggling indoors for warmth bring the spectacle outdoors for all of the long distance lovers to see. The close proximity of those despicable exhibitionists turns all of the suitc\ase couples green with envy. As West Beach fills with available prospects the temptations mount and testosterone levels rise. The warm weather draws you out of your room, away from tlie countless phot()graphs of your far away \friend\ which mesmerized you all winter long and closer to more immediate opportunities. Constant intoxication over your occasional visitor hegins to fade as he/she is replaced with at hand tangibles. As the frustration builds; you may be tempted to satisfy your urges. Exercise your will power, pick work. Some pesticides are more toxic than others. We can ~bsorb toxic substances m different ways: through the skin, · through eating and drinking or thrcmgli th~ lungs. Once toxic substances enters our bloodstream, they may damage many internal organs and systems. A few w-eeks ago, Chilean fruit-: .. gra.pes., melons, nectarines, raspbetries~ peaches, plums and pearsr•Were all taken off the ,United States food market because two grapes in Philadelphia were found to contain cyanide. Tl:lis caused tremendous panic for the Americans who usually eat these products. At tlie same time, domestic red apples were sprayed with a· hazardous chemical residue ca:lled Alar. Alar is a plant growth regulator that improves the color and firmness of the apples. This growth regulator afso breaks down into UDMH, which may. be carcinogenic: This chemical · heightens the risk of cancer for 'consumeJ!S who eat red apples. Pesticides can affect our gastrointestinal systems. We dig.est the toxins., either by breaking them down or by passing them through the bloodstream. Our body reacts with symptoms of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea an-d constipation. P-esticides can .also damage our central nervous system. Toxins can reduce oxygen to the brain and interfere with communication between nerves and other body systems, causing disorders. Our -.body 'Cflll r~ct w,jth. behavQnal . disorders, depression, anxie\y. headache·s, · irritaibHity. letharagy and numbness. · Tlie problem of . hazardous food is a situation that is .relevant to students because most,of us eat more fruits and vegetables during spriqg term. The prQducts may be 'exposed to . ciucin()genic pesticides, Students may wonder if the red apples ~old in the 'college center were sprayed with the pesticide Alar. Living in this day and age involves facing many different kinds ofheatth risks. We have many options for managing. the risks in our lives. This increasing envimnmental pollution causes more concern over health and safety. 1 am not telling you to stop eating vegetables and fruit. What l am saying is to be careful and wash the products before eating them. To avoid the risks. of Alar and UDMH, eat ether, apples such as Granny S;mith and Yellow Delicious. B:uy organic and -unsprayed fruits and vegetables. In addition, stick with in,..season locally grown fruit and veg~tables. The choice is yours. Please ·direct your questions and comments to Sox 1!!)93. I\ ., I I APRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 1.~89 8:00pm UNION COLLEG t THEATRE 370-6153 Suitcase Couples up the phone,- wril~ a sappy letter, indulge in something' fattening or go indoors. long distance coffin. Although the· cards seem stacked again:st the pathetic, The well invested funds helpless, absent partners, many· allotted for spring break leave are worth keeping. and love is little for the monthly phone , an emotion that can survive the bills. The need to constantly · distances. Although the time slap yourself into remember!ng spent together is limited it just you are attached become~ that makes· it all the more much more difficult as the important to spend quality time nightly phone calls become together. ~For some the nearly impo-ssible. The . temptations m~ght be too abundance of spring time · great, w:hile for others it is activities are a fimil nail in the worth the extra effort. Applications for the position of ·Orientation Advisor are available in the Dean of Students' office CC3o·a. The deadline is Friday, AprU 14.

MIXOLOGY What's thi!J.t? A desire to earn and learn. Union College Dining Service is offe~ng a course in .the art of bartending for U 1989 Page 7 , . banq~et department. Sign up with -the Managers. of Dutch Hollow at the College Center .. . Tl:lecoursewill be of.fered on Tuesday Evening April 25 from 7-9 at Hale House. Applications are ln Dean of Students Of.fice Thi:rd Floo.r College Cente,r o·eadllne, A.prll 14 · · fty: ·seute'·'(t!r attii·a:~ef:!rath liitar•11'h'o\·urll.!\\ .......... · beach? . Mail this ro~, Qr~.kOOO·~NU; in 1llinois, (312) 4914114. r.::. . ~ \l· • LEAD THE FIELD. . As a nuclear officer, you could lead the field in nuclear propul-· sion technology; The Navy operates the most advanced rtuclear equipment in the world. Including more than half the nuclear reactors in America. The men who maintain and operate these reactors are among the best. The Navy is accepting applica- tions from qualified sophomores, juniors and seniors for the pres'\ tigious nuclear program. This pro- gram pays you $1,000 a month dur- ing your junior .and senior years, Plus $2,000 up<>n graduation. Mter graduation, as a Navy officer, you receive a year of grad- uate-level trainillg unavailable anywhere else at any price. You become a highly trained member . of an elite group leading the adventure in today~s nuclear Navy. And, after tive years, you can be earning as much as $44,000 .. To qualify, you inust be working toward, or have earned, a bachelor's degree and be aU .S. citizen between 19 ,and 25 years of age. You must also have completed a minimum of one year .each of calculus and calculus-based physics with a \B\ average or better. Ari Officer Will be at the Placenient Center ~ onAprill2 from 8:30am to 4:45pm ., NAVY OFFICER You are Tomorrow. You are the Navy. I I I I I l I I Northwestern University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 60208-lb50 Save me a seat. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '89 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available mirl~Ma.rch). Please send the Cl\t.'llog to 0 my home. 0 my sth()()l, Nrune SchMI Addms City State Zip Home AddOOss City sGue Zip U/C IBM USER GROUP MEETING *** Announcement '\'** Thursday, April 1·3, 1989 Noon - 1 :00 PM Co liege Center Rm. 409 . \WORD PERFECT PROBLEM SOLVING SESSION\ with Felix Wu, OCS Techni~al Analyst Dessert and Beverages provided ' GOLDEN HOUSE CHINESE RESTAURANT · Cantonese, Szechvan, Human Cui:sine &. Home style orders to Take Out Sheridan Plaza. 1318 Gerlingo Street Try Our Lunch Schenec~cly,NY 12308 Special 7 Days a Week 372 _ 9002 Weekdays:1i:30am.-10:00 pm 372 _ 9004 Fri. & Sat.: 11:30.am -10:00 pm , (Monday ()!)en at 5:00 pm) Chef from Szechven servin.g the BEST of • • * Chinese. Food in the Capital District • * * Try our Sesame Chicken Rated thje BEST in the Area by the People FREE LOCAL DELIVERY MINIMUM $12 ORDER ~ ---,--·---·----~--,--~~-------··--~ ~ $2.00 - 'lWO DOLLARS OFF : ~ ~ ' ' ' on order $20.00 or more - Customer must present ~· coupon when ordering. Only one coupon per order ' This offer expires June 15, 1989 - $2.00 ~ ' ,,

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS .. April . 6, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY TALK PLANNED ON 'ORIGlN OF THE UNIVERSE' AT UNION COLLEGE PROBLEM OF THE WEEK Schenectady, N.Y. (March 28) -- YeiVant Terzian, an astronomer who specializes in rad·io astronomy and the physics of i,nterstellar medium, will spea.k on ''The Origin of the Universe'' at 11 a.m. Thursday, Aprill3, in the College Center auditGrium at Union College. Show that any finite colleetion of squares whose area add up to 3 can be ~ranged to covet ~tlu~ , . unit square~ · Slides taken from spacecraft and the world's most .powerful telescopes will be shown. The free talk is part of The Minerva Hour lecture series and co-sponsored by the New York State Pew Cluster, a collaborative effort of Union Coilege and six other col'leges and Solutions shouid be submitted to· Lois Bing in the MathemtiGS l;)ept. Office between the hours of 9am-ll amand2pm-4pm, Monday through Ftiday. The first - correct solution submitted will receive the weeldy ten dollar priZe. Correct solutions will b~ posted on the bullei:in board outside Bailey 106. universities under a grant from The Pew Charitable Trusts to improve science and mathematics education. Terzian is chairman of Cornell University's Department of Astronomy, where he has been a professor for 23 years. He received a doctorate in astronomy from Indiana University in 1965. PUTNAM THE DEPARTMENT OE ·sGOIOLOGY-\ AND ANTHBOl?OLOGY EXAM RESULTS - . - ,_ .. ··\ INVITES YOU TO ATTEND THE SPRING TERM LEWIS HENRY MORGAN COU.,OQUIA The William Lowel.l Putnam Mathmematical Competition is an examination in December of each year and is open to undergraduates in the United States and Canada. Problems in the com- peition are similar to those appearing in the Problem of the Week feature o·f Concordiensis. They are generally simple to state but req;uire cleverness and ingenuity to solve. This year, 2096 student from 360 colleges and universities parti- cipated in the competion. Union's team ranked 49th of 257 teams. Our congratulations tQ OUR SPEAKERS ARE: \ , May 4th . . Mr. Tamar-Gordon, Visting Assistant Professor of Anthropology \The Mormon Tongan. Fanrily:. Mirror of Modernity\ . . ' 3:30 Social Sciences 105 Benediky Blunschi, Laszlo Boioroczky, and Dallas Pitt, the Union students who took this year's Putnam Examination. May3Qth Dr. Martha Huggins, Associate Professor '(){Sociology Students wl1o are interested in particir-ating in the Putnam Examination should watch n~xt Fall \Latin American Authoritarianism: for announcements of the Putnam Practice Seminar. In the meantime, practice now with another Problem Paradigmatic and Theoretical Issnes\ 3:30 Social Sdences 103 of the Week on this page. · I 1Oth Annual Meeting Sociologists of Eastern Upstate New York* 1:15 Union College (Hale House) April 14, 1989 \Sociological Ideas and American Culture\ Dennis Wrong, Professor of Sociology . (New York University) 3:00 ''Sociology in the ·1990's\' - Informal Panel Discussion Dennis Wrong (New York University) Terry Weiner (Union College) Richard Hall (SUN-Y, Albany) Lynda Ames (Center for Women in Govem ment) · Paul Murray (Siena College) * Supported by a grant from Union College Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and AnthropOlogy For additional information contact:. Donileen R. Loseke Dept. of Sociology and Anthropology 370-6083 THESE MEETINGS ARE FREE AND·OPENTO THE PUBLIC Life in the Year 2020 - Scientists Dlscuss the Outlook for the Future in Conference - at The New Y·ork State Museum ALBANY, N.Y.-What will life be like in 1(), 20 or 30 years? How will the Greenhouse effect alter our everyday li-ves? What kind of a world will our children inherit? . Scientists .from around the nation are gathering 3tThe New York State Museum on April 24 and 25, 1989 to ,address these issue~ and more during a conferen'* on \Global Climatic Change arid Life 0~ Ear$: Evidence, Predictions,. and P()licy.\ Among the speakers are Dr. Daniel Dudek of the Environmental Defense Fhnd, Dr. Robert Peters of the world Wildlife Fupd, Dr. Janice Longstreth of ICF~ Clement, Dr. Edward Cook of La111ont Doherty Geological Observat()ry ,'Dr, . Richard L. Wyman of the E.N. Huyck Preserve and Biological Re~earclt Station, Dr. Richard Wetherald of the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics·Laboratory- NOAA, Dr. Jan Beyea of the National Audubon Society~ Dr. Richard Houghton of Woods Hole Research Center, Dr. James Clark of The New York State Museum,. and Dr. David Steadman of The New York State Museum. Topics include the effects of climate change ()11 northeatem U.S. wildlife, the occurrence of diseases and parasites w<>rldwide, forests and forest fires, U.S. energy policy, global politics, U.S.· agriculture and the indigent, the elderly, and children. The conference is cosponsored by the E.N. Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station, The New York State Museum:. The Albany County Chapter of the Audubon Society, Behavioral Ecology Gmup at the State University at Albany, the New York State Chapter of the Wil<llife Society, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, Atmospheric Scie-nces Reseatch Center, the Biology Oepartment of Union College, the Environmental Planning Lobby, and The Roger Tory Peterson Institute.

CONCQRDlENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ! FUEL I l l Energy ·Saving Air Conditioner lnlfented By Union Professor . ENGiNE 1ST STAGE zNDsrAGE STEAM GENERATOR GENEJ'IATCR CCNDENSER U.S. Patent L ~ 1 1.1 H 13 { I T• \~ _$ r-J 12 r ( ''0' ~·- ) -: ·~ : T ~tfu I 6 ·~ I 'i' I I i FREON r ~· Union College Mechanical Engineering P:rofessor Frank Wicks has received a United States · Patent on an air conditioning concept that sbould cut .fuel requirements in half and also limit summer brownouts caused by cooling demands on the electric power diesel or gas turbme engine can be used, and the oompressmr is sized t match tb~ mechanical output of the engine, and tbus drive the compression cycle IJQition of .the system. Mar. 21, 1989 · COMPRESSa; ·!~[)ATE _l(. lj I ~ ~- .D,. .. system. . , Patent Number 4,813,242 was issued to. Professor Wicks on March 29, 1989 and has been featured in the weekly Patent Column of the New York Times on March 25, and also has been reported locally in the Albany, Tr.oy ,and Schenectady new~a~rs. The invention uses It .is further noted that a nominal energy b,atance on any type of fueled engine is· the conversion ofabout 25% ofthe fuel energy to electricity~ and the remaining 7$% is rejected as beat through the engine exhaust and cooling system. 4813 242 ' ' .. 2 '. I ri't I I FF£ON I I EVAPOR.AiOR I I 2( I I . 6 ·~:;~ J F:REON CONcrNSER · )~ I N- WEAK SOLU'TJON IJ STEAM . HEAT JRANs:ER. . ~FORATCR . t 'I 15 LC I .. I ·~ ! I ENG~ LOW :rEM ATURE · I 0/ EXHAUST 10.~ SOLUTION HEAT .. TRtiNSfER 23 ABSORBER .I I _4 D._ I LITHIUM 9 eROMIDE .AN STRONG SOLUTION AND ! WATER 2ND STAGE DRAIN TO r SOLUTION_ I . . WEAK SO..UTION HEAT ( ,- TRANSFER .~ I E ~ ( conventional equipment and technologies found in .electric powered air conditioners and · the o.nce popular gas refrigeration systems that operated on an absorption cycle principle in which heat boils a refrigerant out of a carrier liquid. The inherent inefficiency of e1ec.tdc air conditioning is the fact that the fuel is burned at a powe1 plant that is remote from the building that is to be cooled .and thus, the 75% of the heat that is rejected at the p.ow.er plant and in the transformers and .in the transmission and distribution lines cannot be utilized. DEN SED f\0 CON EN EXH 2' .. ~ \· e ~ GINE CO~ENSAcTE Al:JST 21~ 3J 0 In the absorption refrigeration system. the refrigerant was ammonia and the carrier liquid was water, while for temperatures corresponding to air conditioning, w:;uer in the form of low pressure steam is th~ refrigerant and lithium bromide is a preferred carrier~ A modification of the · compression cycle portion of new system is that, rather than having the mechanical power consuming-compressor driven by an electric motor, this compressor is driven diJ~tly by an engine, in a m(nner similar to a car air conditi9p.,er. Furthermore, the automobile . I .. type engine can be readily converted to be fuele.d,i .. bY natural gas, or alternativ~ly a· In contrast, the subject system burns the fuel in an engine at the location that is to be air conditioned. and thus, along with using the engine power output for the, compression cycle, virtually all of this rejected heat can be utilized to drive an absorption air conditioning cycle, which results in the d()ubling of the effective fuel efficiency of the air conditioning process. Along with the. direct savings· to the user in terms of energ.y costs:, the system provides a new, but very fuel efficient use for the natural gas surplus that exist during the su.mme·r. These fuel conservation benefits. include cleaner air and water, less acid rain, and less carbon dioxide discharge to the atmosphere, Which appears tc be causing a \Greenhouse Effect\ heating of the earth, arid may result in further increases in air conditionrngrequirements. A more immediate benefit from this system is that it can take the strain off the electric power system during the hottest <lays of summer, and thus dec.rease the risks of blackouts and brownouts, and help decrease the need for new and expensive electric capacity. Professor Wicks also notes that these potential and large scale advantages are not sufficient to make the system a timely and large scale reality. Although the system uses existing component equipment, substantial engineering will be required for the interfacing, control and packaging. This is also a new concept that the manufactnrers and users will have to learn about and accept Accordingly, Professor Wicks is :proceeding with the Lym·e-Carrying Ticks Found in Upstate New Yo,rk ALBANY, N.Y.-·More evidence tbat the Lyme disease-carrying deer tick is spreading throughout New York State was discovered recently by an entomologist with The New York State Museum. Robert Means found the tick on a toad-killed deer in nortbern Schoh.arie Counnty near the town of . · Carlisle. · · · · · ··· .. -· · - · ·· ~ ·· - - · · · · · As part of a cooperative effort between the New York Stat~ Museum's Biological SW.:~Y· the New ·york State· Department of Health and the New York State Pollee, Means has beenexanumn~ deer for the tick known to carry the Lyme disease bacterium. This is the farthest north and the most mland the tick has been found so far in New York State. · First recognized in 1977 in children from a neighborhood in the town of Lyme, Connecticut, for which it ls named, Lyme disease is endemic to the coastal areas of Connecticut, Massachusetts and New York. However the tick known to transmit tbe bacterium ~at causes the disease has become mre common ·~oughout fue northeastern United State:s and appears to be ~preadin.g. In 1988 specimens of the deer tick wer~ discovered in Greene, Renss~laer and Albany Counties, far north of the coastal areas where it is abundant. · . . . : . . . . . . . . . , , · In the riskiest areas~ 50' to 80 % of the deer ticks may carry the Lyme disease bacterium, and less than 30% in other areas. More than 2,600 cases of Lyme disease have been reported to the New York State Health Department in 1988, and more than 6,000 cases since the disease was identified. . The three state. agencies have been cooperating to share information on the incidence of the disease and sightings of the tick. Means; Dr. Dennnis White, Director of the TickBome Disease Institute of the State Health Department; and Dr. John Debbie, also of the State Health Department, have been responding to reports ofroad-kiUeddeerfrom the State Police an an effort todete~e h?w far the ~ck has spread throughout the states. Since the fall, ~ore than 150 deer have been ex.ammed lli the counties of Albany, Schenectady, Rensselaer, Schoharie, Saratoga, Fulton and Montgomery at road-kills and hunters' check points. This is the ftrst year of a new effort by The New York State MJ.!seutn to investigate the biology of the 21 kiilds of ticks known to occur in the state • including the one that transmits the Lyme bacterium - and the: more than 100 mammals and birds that are )lost to them. According to Dr. Norton Miller, Chief Scientist of .the Museum's Biological Survey, the distti.bution of dcks and their ho.sts in the state has not been studied since 194.5. Significant changes are likely to have occurred since then. · Means' search for the deer tick in the Capital District is a pilot study for more extensive future · research. The New York State Museum will.seek funding to launch a thorough study of ticks and their hosts throughout the entire state. ... .... next level of design, and a Union College engineering student has been awarded a summer research fellowship to help with the analysis. · Professor Wicks has also presented one technical paper, and is preparing two additional papers describing the design and analysis of this system. He is also discussing the merits .of the system with electric and gas utility company managers. Last w~k _ he presented this system at a Department of Energy sponsored Conference at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, and believes that funding for the development of a prototype .should be attainable. Professor Wicks also notes that it is important to take a historic perspective on technology, because such reviews show that systems are continuing to change with the needs and capabilities of the times. There is about a 100 year history of space air conditioning. The first 50 years was dominated with heat driven absorption cycles, but once electric power became available and at decreasting costs, virtually all air conditionilng has been electric driven compression cycles. Professor Wicks notes that we are now entering a new era of increased concerns about energy costs and efficiency. importance of clean air and water, damage from acid rain. and impacts of fuel consumption upon the weather. On the basis of these considerations, he believes that this new air conditioning system is now a system whose time has come. Schenectady based Adirondack Research Center Sponsors Slide Lecture on Colvin Inventions The inventive genius of famed Adirondack surveyor Verplanck Colvin will be on display in a slide presentation titled \Reproducing Colvin's Portable Boat\ to be held on Wed~esday evening 7 April19, 8:00pm .~n the ma_in floo~ of the Schenectady Museum. The program IS the last m a spnng series sponsored by the Adirondack Research Center and is free of charge - all are welcome. A reception for the speaker with refreshments will follow the program. The speaker is Nina Webb, a 4th generation Adirondacker, who for the last ten years has researched .and recreated some of . the inventions from Colvin's 19th century patents. Among her accomplishments are full scale reproductions of Colvin's portable boat and his tin survey signalling apparatus. which he used in his Adirondack surveys from 1873-1899. A model of the twelve foot long portable boat used 1>y Colvin on Adirondack lakes and able to hold 700 pounds of gear, as well as the signalling appartus, will be the special focus of the program and will be on display. Ms. Webb completed and launched this boat in 1982, 109 years after Colvin designed it. Slides will be used to illustrate various stages of these items' construction. Nina Webb is currently President of the Adirondack Trail • · Improvement Society, and a part-time resident of Keene, New York in the heart of the High Peaks. For further information .about the program, please call Edith. ~lcher at 518-377-7235. For directions t9 the Schenectady Museum, please call 518- 382-7890. ' The Adirondack Research Center, now in its tenth year, is a research, collections and educational arm of The Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, a membership organiZation. based in Schenectady.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 \ Cllnnrnrbirnsis _LE ...... TT ....... E._Rs_· - ............ -- ............... Fou,·nded at lJnion College 1877---- Reaction Vs. Action Much attention has been given to Delta Chi Fraternity and their housing situation. Lately., there has been much activity to reverse the decision of the Student Affairs Committee. The house has petitioned, appealed to, and pleaded with the committee to change the outcome of their unanimous vote to rescind Delta Chi's on-campus housing privileg~s. While there is much reaction to this adminis.trative decision, little action occurred when action would have been the most effective. Articles written in the February 1, 1987 and March 5, 1987 issues of Concordiensis informed readers of_the 95 percent occupancy policy as it came before a Student Forum vote with discussion from Interfraternity Council. (Delta Chi, as well, has been well infofii!.ed over the past few years). The proposed policy went into effect that spring. No one took any action to prevent the situation we are faced with today. There were no petitions, appeals, or pleas to anyone. No one tried to change fue proposed policy or add to it. It passed with relatively little concern or thoughts of the future. The same may he applied to the changes in the social policy. When changes were made-- much to student dismay-- we then heard the cries pf injustice. There was much reaction, yet little action was taken to reverse the decision. Even more typiqtlly, nothing was done to pre-empt the action of the Administration. Gel Time is another sorry mess. Although student opinion was heard, the change was made. Everyone still complains, but no one did much about it when the time was right. Union students do, lwwever, deserVe some credit. Action abounded with issues such as the \Save The Grass\ movement in the Spring of 1987, The Pornography Debate in the Winter of 1987-88, and Mr. Bemis is- quite active with his Save The Nott work. And there is a credible Students For Political Action and Awareness organization. Ultimately, and usually, the case is that students don't care enough to be motivated to solve the problems that count now and wiU count in the future. Overall, we are reactive rather than active. . Reacting To A Threatened Environment New York State's growing waste crisis affects us. New York State has some of the most heavily contaminated landfills in the country and the space in which to dump garbage is becoming greatly reduced. Landfills are overflowing and the ground water is threatened. In this state 18 million tons of garbage are generated annually, all of which is either buried, burned and dumped without adequate environmental protection. The Union College mailroom receives 700 pounds of mail per day. Seventy to eighty pounds of that is paper waste, and garbage from mass mailings amounts to approximately forty pounds. The mail room is generating hundreds of pounds of paper waste per day that costs this institution 75,000 dollars a year to have removed. This waste proves to be a direct threat to our environment. When lltuned, ash residue that typically qualifies as hazardous waste remains to be disposed of in landfills. Highly t()x.ic chemicals, including dioxin, have been shown to be produced by incinerators. College campuses across the country have turned to recycling as a solutien, Union is now among them. SP AA, Students for Political Actiona and Awareness, has initiated the plan which has been responsible for the placement of red waste bins in the mail room and the Computer Center. Colleges are in the process of confronting the waste crisis; Hartwick must follow a town ordinance mandating a five-bin recycling project. Bates, Siena, Clarkson,. Rutgers, Mt. Holyoke and Sarah Lawrence are just some of the other colleges that have implemented a mandatory paper recycling project. These projects n()t only keep the waste out of landfills but also greatly reduce costs for removal fees. We need to be proud of SPAA 's efforts and to be aware of the measures that Union College can take to help make this world better. Call For More Common .. Theme Housing ld~as lYlade 'fo the Editors: Elsewhere in this issue of C on c o r d i e n s i s is the announcement that the Office of Residence Life is soliciting proposals for new common,. theme coed group housing on campus. With the Lottery season rapidly approaching, I believe that this form of housing offers an exciting housing alternative for To the Editors: Last term I wrote a letter to Concordlensis expressing my displeasure with the theft of two skulls and a jawbone from a display in the Biology stuclents. Two such houses already e:xist on campus: the Cultural Unity Center, and the International House, and several ideas have already sutfaced for additional groups 11ext year~ including language ·llouse(s), and a more general \living and learning\ )louse. S.urely there .are other -ideas out there.. I encourage any Skull Caper Ends Depar~ment. At that time I asked that they be returned. The two skulls have been retumed. and I thank whoever returned them. I also thank security personnel for their vigilance'\in making sure that the skulls SUMMER JOBS individual or group with an idea· for a common-theUte house to contac~ the Office of Res~dence Life for help in formulating an application, and irt identifying potential group members. This kind of housing alternative is routine ai many colleges, and it's about time that we have more of it at Union. Professor Doug 1Clein made it 'back to the Department Of course. I would prefer that we not have to go through the same exercise in thefutute .. Sincerely, Peter Tobiessen Union College's Academic Opportunlty.Program (AOP) needs (5) peer tutor counselors for It~ 7th Slimmer Program. July 2 • August 19 RESPONSIBILITIES: Attend Summer Program Orfentatlen Session Tutor In Assigned S11bject Area Provide Personal, Social and Acacfemfc counseling Assist Students with orientation to Union. College Assist the Residence Staff Participate in all require(/ staff meetings Submit weekly reports and final evaluations QUAUFJCAtfONS: Uppei'Cia$$ person 01' graduate ~ of June capable of tufoling In one ot the following. •rear. Chemistry, EngliSh .wdly sldl~ llll3ilh, · $)cial Reaearch, Physics . Minimum of 2.0 cumullitire Index Minimum 3.0 in subject aru you WJ11 fiJfor Assist with $tudent and tutor cqurJselor final evaluations Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel Participate in social, cunural and ncreatfonal activities Perform other duties assigned by fhe AOP Staff Applications now available .In the AOP Office, 101 Bailey Hall Application Deadline ·April 11, 1989 . ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMJTIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. LETTERS TO- THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT' THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD I ,,

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 <llllltfllrbtrnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ---- Rea,ction V s. Action Much attention has been given to Delta Chi Fraternity and their housing situation. Lately, there has been much activity to reverse the decision of the Student Affairs Cotrunittee. The house has petitioned, appealed to, and pleaded with the committee to change the outcome of their unanimous vote to rescind Delta Chi's on-campus housing privileges. While there is much reaction to this administrative decision, little action. occurred when action would have been the most effective. Articles written in the February 1, 1987 and March 5, 1987 issues of Concordiensis informed readers of the 95 percent occupancy policy as it came before a Student Forum vote with discussion from Interfraternity Council. (Delta Chi, as well, has been well informed over the pa£t few years). The proposed policy went into effect that spring. No one took any action to prevent the situation we are faced with today. There were no petitions, appeals, or pleas to anyone. No one tried to change the proposed policy or add to it. It passed with relatively little concern or thoughts of the future. The same may be applied to the changes in the social policy. When changes were made-- much to student dismay-- we then heard the cries of injustice. There was much reaction, yet little action was taken to reverse the decision. Even more typic~lly, nothing was done to pre-empt the action of the Administration. Gel Time is another sorry mess. Although student opinion was heard, the change was made. Everyone still complains, but no one did much about it when the time was right. Union students do, however, deserve some credit. Action abounded with issues such as the \Save The Grass\ movement in the Spring of 1987, The Pornography Debate in the Winter of 1987-88, and Mr. Bemis is quite active with his Save The Nott work. And there is a credible Students For Political Action and Awareness organization. Ultimately, and usually, the case is that students don't care enough to be motivated to solve the problems that count now and will count in the future. Overall, we are reactive rather than active. Reacting To A Threatened Environment New York State's growing waste crisis affects us. New York State has some of the most heavily contaminated landfills in the CQuntry and the space in which to dump garbage is becoming greatly reduced. Landfills are overflowing and the ground water is threatened. In this state 18 millkm tons of garbage are generated annually, all of wllich is either buried, burned and dumped without ad.equate environmental protectiQn. The Union College mailroom receives 700 pounds of mail per day. Seventy to eighty pounds of that is paper waste, and garbage from mass mailings amounts to approximately forty pounds. The mail room is generating hundreds of pounds. of paper waste per day that costs this institution 75,000 dollars a year to have removed. This waste proves to be a direct threat to our environment. When burned, ash residue tllat typically qualifies as hazardous waste remains to be disposed of in landfills. Highly toxic chemi<:als, including dioxin, have been shown to be produced by incinerators. College campuses across the country have turned to recycling as a solution, Union is now among them. SPAA, Students for Political Actiona and Awareness, has initiated the plan which has been responsible for the placement of red waste bins in the mail room and the Computer Center. Colleges are in the process of confronting the waste crisis; Hartwick must follow a town ordinance mandating a five-bin recycling project. Bates, Siena, Clarkson, Rutgers, Mt. Holyoke and Sarah Lawrence are just some of the other colleges that have implemented a mandatory paper recycling proj~ct. These projects not only keep the waste out of landfills but also greatly reduce costs for removal fees. We need to be proud of SPAA's efforts and to be aware of the measures that Union College can take to help make this world better. LETTERS Call For More Common- Theme Housing Ideas Made To the Editors: Elsewhere in this issue of C on c o r d i e n s i s is the announcement that the Office of Resideace Life is soliciting proposals for new common- theme coed group housing on campus.. With the Lottery season rapidly approaching, I believe that this form of housiRg offers an exciting housing alternative for To the Editors: Last term I wrote a letter to Concordiensis expressing my displeasure with the theft of two skulls and a jawbone from a display in the Biology students. Two such houses already exist on campus: the Cultural Unity Center, and the Interaational House, and several ideas have already surfaced for additional groups next year, including language house(s), and a more general \living and learning\ house. Surely there are other ideas out there. I encou:r:age any Skull Caper Ends Department. At that time I asked that they be returned. The two skulls have been returned, and I thank whoever returned them. I also thank security personnel for their vigilance in making sure that the skulls SUMMER JOBS individual or group with an idea· for a common-theme house to contact the Office of Residence Ufe for help in formulating an application, and in identifying potential group members. This kind of housing alternative is routine at many colleges, and it's ab<Jut time that we have more of it at Union. Professor Doug Klein made it back to the Department. Of course, I would prefer that we not have to go through the same exercise in the future. Sincerely, Peter Tobiessen Union College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs (5) peel tutor counselors tor its 7th Summer Program. July 2 - August 19 RESPONSIBILITIES: Attend Summer Program Orientation Session Tutor in Assigned Subject Area Provide Personal, Social and Academic counseling Assist Students with orientation to Union College Assist the Residence Staff Participate in all required staff meetings Submit weekly reports and final evaluations QUALIFICATIONS: Upperclns person or graduate as ot June capable of tutoring in one of the following areas: Chemistty. English study skills, Math, Social Research, Physics Minimum of 2.0 cumultdive index: Minimum 3.0 in subject area you will fufoT Assist with student and tutor counselor final evaluations Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel Participate in social, cultural and recreational activities Perform other duties assigned by the AOP Staff Applications now avalfable in the AOP Office, 101 Bailey Hall Application Deadline -April 17, 1989 . ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. LETTERS TO- THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD •

The Interfraternity Council Panhelleni.c Cou neil And Student Forum Is Sponsoring Guest Speaker WILL KEIM April ·26 M.em~orial Chapel .(Lo,ok For Further Announc«aments On Time) The. Topic Will Be:. Is the Student~Athelete an Oxy-MORON? ,: ... Can we be students and atheletes? Come join the crosstal_k committe for this interesting discussion! Wednesday, April 12, 1989 8:00pm College Center Atrium lJ1ie Senior C(ass Of 1989 Of Union Co{(ege Coraia{{y Invites ~ou 'Io: crlie senior s pt:ing 'Ba[{ On !llpriC 'I wenty-'Eiglitfi, :A{jneteen 9-funirei filni 'Eiglity-9{jne J2lt !1\[ine 0/Cfocf( J2l. t lJlie ~truu{a Inn Scfienectaiy, !J{f,w 'Yorf( Ttck§.ts on Safe at tlie 'Bo{.Difice \ . CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 11 LETTERS \Restore the N ott\ Says Stop Dodging The Issue To the Editors: We were amused to read the editorial of the last issue of Concordiensis of Winter Term ~itled \About the Fine Print.\ This newspap.er has always .supported the efforts of Restore The Nott Student Initiative .• and it was just one week before this critical editorial came out that the edito.rs were asking the administration to move quickly on the Nott Memorial Restoration. We can understand that· .the editors could be persuaded by the influence of a college administration which has practice in deferring on the issue of the Nott Memorial Restoration ~ one member of which told us that \it has been dodging the issue of the restortion of the Nott Memorial • and will continue to do so. One administrator tells us that the funds in the Environmental Quality Bond Act for historic preservation would be too little if Union could ever get them and that the restrictions would handcuff the college. We would like to . clarify the issue. We have read . the fine print and have talked to ·officials in\the New York State !Parks and Recreation Office, 1 and we know that the only restrictions placed on those funds are that the historical •integrity of the building remains intact. (For example, the money ~auld not be used for aluminum siding.) These restrictions are tile same ones tht Dr. Maranville signed when the Administratioli applied for - and received • the National Historic Landmarlcplaque. (The plaque, purchs.e-d by us taxpayers for display, still sits in the col'lege £afe.} Also, being on~ of tile two endangered Natiollal Historic Landmarks in tllis entire state, the opportunity f<>r a good amount of funds was ripe. We say the opportunity <:was> ripe for the College'S. decision in not submitting an. application when there were ~mple funds, now has seen .the state funds dwindle to almost ll()thing. The administration bad a chance, but they lost it. There is also the matter of best use for the buHd:ing. We can't believe Dr. Maranville still seeks a purp<Jse for the Nott Memorial. Th-e purpose is truly self-evident. The structure i:s a monument to ()De of the greatest men in the history of American educatio11. It is also a memorial to the Potter family - who are imp<J1tant in the College's historY' - and to the many alumni of this school. The building has been affrrmed in its architectur.al importance by a committee of natil::mally . recognized ardiitectural historian's and i.s part of the nation's - and college's - heritage. Further, the Nott Memorial ha!; a lineage connecting with. some of the greatest buill<li11gs in the Western World. The purpose is heriLage · and this has been recognized by its historians such as the nationally eminent John Mesick who prepared a historic structure study which has become a model of such reports. Mr. Mesick has worked with us, and we have forwarded these ideas to the administration as a proposal. We thus hope that the editors of Concofdiensi.s wHl be sensitive to the need to stimulate our administration toward more effective dialogue on the Nott Memorial restoration. Some advice to the administration which implies that we do not read the fine print and are hurting the Nott Memorial R~storation: READ THE BOLD ·PRINT! The bold print in every report we have seen says, \Get the Nott Memorial restored!\ , Your comments In refuting the Department of Interior's report on. Endang~.!ed Landmarks in which the Nott Memorial has joined the list, may have hurt the restoration effort. The administration's cmments and actions may have caused Union College to lose respect in the eyes of the nation regarding our heritage . Sincerely, Keith 0. Bemis Founder & President Restore The Nott Student Initiative gnes of APRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 8:00pm UNION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153

The Interfraternity Council ,PanheHenic CouncU And Student Forum Is Sponsoring Guest Speaker WILL KEiiM April 26 Memori·al Chapel (l.ook For Further Announcements On Time) The Topic Will Be: D'EM.YTHOLOGIZING ''THE ,ANIMAL H·O·USE'' Is the Student-Athelete an Oxy-MORON? Can we be students and atheletes? Come join the crosstalk committe for this interesting discussion! Wednesday, April 12, 1989 8:00pm College Center Atrium 'The. Senior Class Of 1989 Of <[inion Co[kge Cor{ia{[y Invites You 'To: rrfie Senior Spring ~a[[ Ott Jtpri( rJ went!J-'Eigfitli, 9\{jruteen Jiunirea .9l.na t£iglity-:J\[jne .91.t 9\[jne 0 'Cfocl( 5tt 'Tiie ~macfa Inn Schenectaay, ::A&.w Yort ific/C?ts on Safe at tfie '13o~ Office CONCORDJENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 11 LETTERS \Restore the Nott'' Says Stop Dodging The Issue To the Editors: We were amused to read the editorial of the last issue of Concordiensis of Winter Term titled \About the Fine Print.\ This new spa per has always supported the efforts of Restore The No~t Student Initiative, and it was just one week before this critical editorial came out that the editors were asking the administration to move quickly on the N ott Memorial Restoration. We can understand that the editors could be persuaded by the influence ofa college administration which has practice in deferring on the issue of the Nott Memorial Restoration - one member of which told us that \it has been dodging the issue of the res tortion of the N ott Memorial - and will contin.ue to do so. One administrator tells us that the funds in the Environmental Quality Bond Act for historic preservation would be too little if Union could ever get them and that the restrictions would handcuff the college. We would like to clarify the issue. We have read the fine print and have talked to officials in'the New York State Parks and Recreation Office, and we know that the only restrictions placed on those funds are that the historical integrity of the building remains intact. (For example, the money could not be used for aluminum siding.) These restrictions are the same ones tht Dr. Maranvil:le signed when the Administration applied for- and received - the National Historic Landmark plaque. (The plaque, purchsed by us taxpayers for display, stiH sits in the college safe.) Also, bei11g one of the two endangered National Historic Landmarks in this entiJ;e state, the opportunity for a good amount of funds was ripe. We say the opportunity <was> ripe for the College's decision in not submitting an application when there were ample funds, now has seen the state funds dwindle to almost nothing. The administration had a chance, but they lost it. There is also the matter of best usc for the building. We can't believe Dr. Maranville still seeks a purpose for the Nott Memorial. The purpose is truly self-evident. The structure is a monument to one of the greatest men in the history of American education. It is also a memorial to the Potter family - who arc important in the College's history - and to the many alumni of this school. The building has been affirmed in its architectural importance by a committee of nationally recognized arc hi teet ural historians and is part of the nation's - and college's - heritage. Further, the Noll Memorial has a lineage connecting with some of the greatest buildings in the Western World. The purpose is heritage - and this has been recognized by its historians such as the nationally eminent John Mesick who prepared a historic structure study which has become a model of such reports. Mr. Mesick has worked with us, and we have forwarded these ideas to the administration as a proposal. We thus hope that the editors of Concordiensis will be sensitive to the need to stimulate our administration toward more effective dialogue on the Nott Memorial restoration. Some advice to lhe administration which implies that we do not read the fine print and are hurting the Nott Memorial RestoratioA: READ THE BOLD PRINT! The bold print in every report we have seen says, \Get the Nott Memorial restored!\ Your comments in refuting the Department of Interior's report on Endangered Landmarks in which the Nott Memorial has joined the list, may have hurt the restoration effort. The administration's cmmcnts and actions may have caused Union College to lose respect in the eyes of the nation regarding our heritage. Sincerely, Keith 0. Bemis Founder & President Restore The Nott Student Initiative gnes of ob APRIL '13 '15 . 20 -22 8:00pnl UN ION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153 Applications are available in th,e admissions office and .must be c;o,mpleted by _Wednesday, -April .12. ·:···:-:

.Page 12 Next all, THE WRITING CEBnlt will need acnae new Tutors who are LITERATE IMAGINATIVE RELIABLE SERSIBLE TACTFUL SUPPORTIVE PATIEBT FRIERDLY & RICE * * * Does that describe YOU! Ask for an application at THE WRITING CENTER or from Prof. Nelson in Humanit ie~- _?Ul. co 6, 1989 A MESSAGE FROM THE COMPTROLlER'S OFFICE Avoid long line in the Administration building by taking advantage of the CASHIER'S MAIL s.lot (next to the mail room) for mailing telephone or tuition payments. Remember to include I. D. number and to identify payment made. NO CASH PLEASE. STUDY FOR OiVE YEAR OR .fOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN' OXFORD Several college5 of Oxford University 1\!l.ve Invited Tlle Washington lntematlonal Studies Cent.;~ ; 10 recommend qualified studen!S to ·stuay for- one . .,t:2r. tit for one or. two t~rms. Lo\-er Jun.ar · . sr.;nus os .required. and·gi'ad\Jate·study i5 <~ova.ilabl<:. St'udents_an: djr~Uy enrolled in.tlleir canege:s and receive tr:ms<:'ripts·trom llicir OKford-callegc:t.his'fs NOTa.pM:lgram c:Onducu:d by a U.S. Col· ' lege in O:d'ord. A spec:al summer se:s!;IOn is clirected~by WJSC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WlSC oire!'5 summer intcmship!l wtlh Cor>gr=• \ll'lth the Wbltl! H~ wttll· ·the media and wtth think' tank!.. Qovcmmc:nt and Jouinalism couaes.an: taught by smlor·level goo.oernment omc1als. who are also scholars. and by e:qlerlenad joU1'Tl2-.Jlsts. SlmllaT opportunities in public poljcy lnterruhlp6 are offered (with acacletl'\lc C:re!l1tl·.ln London (FaD. ~and Swnlncr'l WRSC Tlle Wuhblgtonlnternational StudielJ Center . 21-4·1o\asoac:huodl5 Avc_l'I:E. SuiU: ~ . ~ o.c. 2000212()21 547·3275 ~0/AA : . ' STUD !! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237-901·2 ROI has excellent part~tirn~ and full-time positions available working wi:th adlllts with developm.e!iltc\1 disabilities in a residential and (:lay treatment setting. Work .With a professional te.am while providing· assistance and supervision in the a·reas of daily living· · skills, socialization and recreation~ · Flexible hours on weekday evenigns, overnights nad · V~eekends. Earn between $5.50 and $&.25 pwer ho~:~r plus holiday bonus incentive .(part-time wages). Full-time s.a.lar.ies ·start a:t $13,500, plus · full benefits. STARTYOUFlCAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES ANt> COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers ·a shuttle se!Vice fr.om · twQ convenient locations. Call for information. :Residential, Opportuniti.es, Inc. is a not for· profit Human Service Agency located. in the Albany area. Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, NY. 12047 (518) 237-9012 ·• The NEW Creamy ... , Frcrren Fruit Treat I' : ,, ' . ~ ' ' ' :, : . ' ' ' VITARI Offers .•. Fresh fruit goodness with no added sugar. The creaminess of ice crearn. with no cholesterol or lactose. · ': . NEW AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW 2$% OFF COUlON GOOD _TILL APRiL 14TH It's so unique, it's patented! ~._____.... __ ;;;.._.;,._,. ____ ..,.1 ' : Aprll13 April13 April1;!

.Page 12 Next fa 11, THE WRITING CENTER will need some new 'Tutors who are LITERATE IMAGINATIVE RELIABLE SENSIBLE FLEXI1U..E TACTFUL SUPPORTIV& PATIElr.r FRIERDL\Y & NicE * * * Does that describe YOU? Ask for an application at THE WRITING CENTER or frore Prof. Nelson in Humanities 210. CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 A MESSAGE FROM THE COMPTROLLER'S OfFICE Avoid l.ong line in the Administration building by taking advantage of the CASHIER'S MAll slot (next to the mail room) for mailing te·lephone or tuition payments. Remember to include I. D. number and to identify payment made. NO CASH PLEASE. STUDY FOR OiVE YEAR OR fOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges cfOxford Univers1ty have lzw1ted The Washington International StudlesCenlo:: 10 recommend qualified sludencs to stuc1y for one ye:u or for one or two 1enru. Lower Jun.or st.alus 1S requ•red. and· graduate s1udy is available Students an: directly enrolled 1n their colleges iiSld receive tr:lnSC\r:ipts fcom their Oxford college: th1s is NOTa program conducted by a U.S. Col· lege 1n Oxford. J. S!\\':al summer scss1on IS dl.:'ected by WlSC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WlSC offers sl.UIUller Internships wlth Congress. with the White Hoo.oc. wtth the tn<:dia and Wlth th.lnk tanl<&. Q.lvemment and Journali.sm coo= arc taught by senior-level g\\e:mrnent otnckls. who a..re also scholars. and by experienced journ.?.llsts. Slmllar opportunities in pubUc ; poticy lntemshlps are off <=<I (with academic credl!lln London (fall s,mng and 5urom<:rl ! WnSC The Washington International Stadiea Center 214 Massachusetts Ave_ N.E. Sui~ 2:30 Washington. D.C.= 12021 547·3275 EO I AA : ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE VOU GBADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237~9012 ROI has excellent part-time and full-time positions · available working with adults wHh deve:lopmental· disabilities ilil a resi<lential and day treatment setting. Work .with a professional team while providing assistance and supeN·is·ion in the areas of daily living s·kills, socialization and recreation. Flexible hours on weekday evenigns, overnights nad weekends. Earn between $5.50 and $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday bonus incentive ~part-time wages). Full-time salaries s-tart at $\13 plus · full benefits. START YOUR CAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH l:HE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient locations. Call for information. Residential Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Serv.ice Agency located in the Albany area. Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, NY 12047 (518) 237-9012 The NEW Cream.y Frozen Fruit Treat VITARI Offers ... Fresh fruit goodness with no added sugar. The creaminess of ice cream with no cholesterol or lactose. It's so unique, it's patented! NEW AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW 25% OFF COUPON GOOD TILL APRIL 14TH April13 April13 April12

CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 13 - INTERNATIONAL FEATURES i ~ From A Different Perspective • • By MATTEO COVER:I• AB-BONDIO and hosted me until I foutld an . apartment in old Schenectady, probably by now, I would be Union Coliege, soon to be defrosting under a bridge on the my Alma Mater, I hope, and shores of the Mohawk. ·its social life. This is . what I Well,. once I got back in the was asked to write ·about as if I scene_, J found a school which I had founded the school or as if had left seven months before .I were Mister Patty in person. and I was feeling completely As many ·of you may know lost now. Most of the pe()ple I ·me; you are aware that I have see now at parties or on mixed feelings for Union: both campus have faces which I love and hate, at the same clon't know. The sad thing is time. - that by tile time spring term Being away from school for comes every one feels like they seven months really helped me already know everybody. Thus, to .put things into focus. First, the incentive for people to get summer school in Boston, after :having gone back home, then home again, and then China for three .months to fina:Uy manage to rest for the montll of December at home before school started. My retum to Schenectady in January was pretty hectic as I had na place to live.· I made it a matter -of honor not to return and live in the coziness of a dorm t:()Om. Had it noi been for a Union professor and his lovely family -who took wonderful care of me ''It definately would help if there were a place on campus where everyone would be willing to go becaust of its com.f ortable enviromment .•• S£1Jn · LaniJUGIJe to meet other people is lost. At least this is how I feel about all of this. I arri sure that dorm life would have certainly resolved this problem. but what about my privacy and fire drills in the middle of the night. It definitely wou:ld help if there were a place oil campus where everyone would be willing to go because of its comf01table .environment a11d friendly atmosphere; a place where you can actually talk to people while feeling comfy. What abut the Skellar? It's not bad but the music is too loud and when you walk out of it Spring Term every r.fuesd,ay College Cen~er . 1 7:00 pm Rm 302 This will be a continuation of the begiiming classes in hopes to increase proficiency of all interested. Please come April 4th - Any Information or Questions Call x4350 1st FASHION SHO_W REHERSAL. ' * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * . dogs follow you wherever you go because you smell like a burger. The College Center? It is definitely nice there, it is so clean and bright and I was also told that soon there will be a Benetton store. But isn't it l:hat we have grown out of the age of meeting at the mall? So, where are we going to meet? I know. I will be on the grass as soon as the weather will allow us to do so, at least it has been so for the past years. I wonder if the students of the Class of 1891 were having as many places to meet as we ·have and were as unsatisfied as we are. Is it that we are probably far too spoiled and that we can't come up with something exciting tO do because every excitement is too easy to get? Who knows. I do not think that I am in a position to give answers but I would be more than delighted to get some. Anyhow, I have spent three years at Union and I just can't wait to leave. But I am sure that in two, three, years from now,· I'll be missing this place for some alien reason. Getting depresssed doesn't help nor does it help to lock yourself in a small circle of friends. But getting nvolved in activities of any :kind, especially if through .them you can get to know people, will definitely make your time here fly by so fast that by the time you graduate you will be happy to leave because there will be nothing left to try and do. If the case is lbat you did not like it here at all, well, then making time fly by will help make your experience less traumatic or depressing. At least this is how it has worked for me for the past three years. Thursd.ay 9:00pm French Film of the Week ''JEAN DE FLORETTE''' By Claude Berri (1986). with Yves Montand, Gerard De Pardieu and Daniel Auteuil Monday, Aprill 0, 1989 7 :OQ pm CC 406 (with English subtitles) April-13 6:30pm International House (Webster 2nd Floor) CC AUDITORIUM ., *************** fifljJJJJB 1rl8l!EmiPJ2fl[/ \YOU CAN'T READ WITHOUT WRITI·NG ... '' Language Tables CONTACT: ANTHEE AT 374~3833 OR NICOLAS AT 398-069'1 .. FOR 'INTERNATIONAL FEATURES' ARTICLES!! will be scheduled as 'follows during Spring Term: Mondays: FRENCH SPANISH Tuesdays: CHINESE Wednesdays: GERMAN Thursdays: ITALIAN 12:45 - 1:45 JAPANESE 11:30 - 12:30 12:45 . 1:45 RUSSIAN 11:30 - 12:30 DUTCH All language tables will meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. •

CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 13 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES From A Different Perspective • • By MATTEO COVERI- ABBONDIO Union College, soon to be my Alma Mater, I hope, and its social! life. This is what I was asked to Write abOut as if I had founded the school or as if I were Mister Party in person. As many of you may know me, you are aware that I have m~ed feelings for Union: both love and hate, at the same time. Being away from school for seven months really helped me to put things into focus. Hrst, summer school in Boston, after having gone back home, then home again, and then China for three months to finalily manage to rest for the month of December at home before school started. My return to Schenectady in January was pFetty hectic as I had no place to live. I made it a matter of honor not to return and live in the coziness of a dorm room. Had it not been for a Union professor and his lovely family who took wonderful care of me S£qn Lanquaqe Spring Term every Tuesday College Center 7:00pm Rm 302 This will be a continuation of the beginning classes in hopes to increase proficiency of all interested. Please come April 4th - Any Information or Questions Call x4350 1st FASHION SHOW REHERSAL. Thursday 9:00pm CC AUDITORIUM *************** French Film of the Week \JEAN DE FLORETTE\ By Claude Berri (1986). with Yves Montand, Gerard De Pardieu and Daniel Auteuil Monday, AprillO, 1989 7:00pm CC 406 (with English subtitles) *************** and hosted me until I found an. apartment in old Schenectady, probably by now, I would be defrosting under a bridge on the shores of the Mohawk. Well, once I got back in the scene, I found a school which I had left seven months before and I was feeling completely lost now. Most of the people I see Row at parties or on campus have faces which I don't know. The sad thing is that by the time spring term comes every one feels like they already know everybody. Thus, ~he incentive for people to get \It definately would help if there were a place on campus where everyone would be wiUing to go because of its comfortable environment ..• to meet other people is lost. At least this is how I feel about all of this. I am sure that dorm life would have certainly resolved this problem, but what about my privacy and fire drills in the middle cf the night. It definitely would help if there were a place on campus where everyone wouM be willing to go because of its comfortable environment and friendly atmosphere; a place where you can actually talk to people while feeling comfy. What abut the Skellar? It's not bad but the music is too loud and when you walk out of it dogs follow you wherever you go because you smell like a burger. The College Center? It is definitely nice there, it is so clean and bright and I was also told that soon there will be a Benctton store. But isn't it that we have grown out of the age of meeting at the mali? So, where are we going to meet? I know. I will be on the grass as soon as the weather will allow us to do so, at least it has been so for the past years. I wonder if the students of the Class of 1891 were having as many places tc meet as we have and were as unsatisfied as we arc. Is it that we arc probably far too spoiled and that we can't come up with something exciting to do because every excitement is too easy to get? Who knows. I do not think that I am in a position to give answers but I would be more than delighted to get some. Anyhow, I have spent three years at Union and I just can't wait to leave. But I am sure that in two, three, years f~om now, I'll be missing this place for some alien reason. Getting deprcsssed doesn't help nor does it help to lock yourself in a small circle of friends. But getting nvolvcd in activities of any kind, especially if through them you can get to know people, will definitely make your time here fly by so fast that by the time you graduate you will be happy to leave because there will be nothing left to try and do. If the case is that you did not like it here at all, well, then making time fly by will help make your experience less traumatic or depressing. At least this is how it has worked for me for the past three years. Aprill3 6:30pm International House (Webster 2nd Floor) [jWJE '1fl81JE~2f)fl \YOU CAN'T READ WITHOUT WRITING ... \ Language Tables CONTACT: ANTHEE AT 374-3833 OR NICOLAS AT 393-0697 FOR 'INTERNATIONAL FEATURES' ARTICLES!! will be scheduled as follows during Spring Term: Mondays: FRENCH SPANISH Tuesdays: CHINESE Wednesdays: GERMAN Thursdays: ITALIAN 12:45 - 1:45 JAPANESE 11:30 - 12:30 12:45 - 1:45 RUSSIAN 11:30 - 12:30 DUTCH All language tables will meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. •

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 ~-·-- ____ A_R_TS~&_E_N_T~E~··~~!_AI_N_M_E~N_T~~~--~: Albany.'s Palace: Cockburn Appeals. To The Aware Listener By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Bruce Cockburn's music demands an attentive and aware listener. Bruce Cockburn fa:ns (those who know to pronounce his last name Co Bum) expect intelligent and thought provoking music, and at Albany's Palace Theater on March 7th both artist and audiences' expectations were realized. Set against a simple yet dramatic backdrop, Cockburn and his band of two filled the stage with a comfortable 'roadie' feel. Three green banners hung from the ceiling. Burgundy, white, and blue lights played against this simple set and provoked such images as that of rainforests and prairies. This look was especially effective as the audience, while not deprived of visual aesthetics, could expend their attention almost exclusively on Cockburn's lyrically rich music. As a traveler and recorder of life, its brutalities, and inequalities Bruce Cockburn's music can not help but be political, for hot topics don't escape 'Cockburn's attention. From Native Americans' \Stolen Lari.d\ to the destruction ·of tropical rainforests, Cockburn's discerning eye and cdcctic musical style captures both tone and realities of his subjects. Cockburn's statement is successfully presented, for rather than preaching and relying on political slogans, he bombards the audience with images. \Beggar with withered legs,, sits sideways on skateboard, grinning... Those laughing kids with hungry eyes... Their clinging memories 9f a culture crushed by Chinese greed\ are just a sampling of the images presented in Oockburns latest albums song \Tibetan Side ·of Town.\ Cockburn's music is not easy listening music. The topics are emotionally disturbing and made more so by Cockburn's humanizing of the conflicts. At the Palac-e's show there was seldom any chatter in between songs and the mood of the audience, while enjoying the evening, was more serious than usual concert goers. In fact at one point, with several audience members shouting out requests, one person yelled \he knows what to play.\ It should not be interpreted that the evening was without humor or lightheartedness. In fact; Bruce Cockburn's sense of humor was evident as he sang Monty Python's \Look on the Bright Side.\ Presently, some of his new songs seemed less political and inore personal than past albums. Nevertheless, Cockburn evokes a storyteller's awe, and no one wanted to- interfere with or belittle that magic. That lone voice in the audience spoke profound truth. He knew what to play. If all you know of Bruce Cockburn's music is \Rocket Launcher\ you are missing out. Check out his new album \Big Circumstance\ or listen to \Call it Democracy\ or \Where the Lions Are.\ Even if you do not agree w.ith his ultimate 'message'' it's more than worthwhile to listen to his music. Next at Albany's Palace Theater ... Friday \Elvis Costello\. Saturday \Berkshire Ballet\ and Wednesday April 12 \Mike and the Mechanics.\ APRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 1989 8:00pm. UNION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153, We're back .. • • WRUC 89.7 FM IS ON THE AIR FOR SPRING TERM 1989 Tune in Thursday, Friday & Monday nights this week to win tickets for Mike & the Mechanics at the Palace Theatre on Aprll12. \

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 ~-· _______ A_R_T_S_& __ E_N_T~E_R~T~A_I_N_M_E~N_T~----------= Albany's Palace: Cockburn Appeals To The Aware Listener By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Bruce Cockburn's music demands an attentive and aware listener. Bruce Cockburn fans (those who know to pronounce his last name Co Bum) expect intelligent and thought provoking music, and at Albany's Palace Theater on March 7th both artist and audiences' expectations were realized. Set against a simple yet dramatic backdrop, Cockburn and his band of two filled the stage with a comfortable 'roadie' feel. Three green banners hung from the ceiling. Burgundy, white, and blue lights played against this simple set and provoked such images as that of rainforests and prairies. This look was especially effective as the audience, while not deprived Gf visual aesthetics, could expend their attention almost exclusively on Cockburn's lyrically rich music. As a traveler and recorder of life, its brutalities, and inequalities Bruce Cockburn's music can not help but be political, for hot topics don't escape Cockburn's attention. From Native Americans' \Stolen Land\ to the destruction of tropical rainforests, Cockburn's discerning eye and eclectic musical style captures both tone and realities of his subjects. Cockburn's statement is successfully presented, for rather than preaching and relying on political slogans, he bombards the audience with images. \Beggar with withered legs sits sideways on skateboard, grinning ... Those laughing kids with hungry eyes... Their clinging memories of a culture crushed t . 1 I J by Chinese greed\ are just a sampling of the i1nagcs presented in Cockburns latest albums song \Tibetan Side of Town.\ Cockburn's music is not easy listening music. The topics are emotionally disturbing and made more so by Cockburn's humanizing of the conflicts. At the Palace's show there was seldom any chatter in between songs and the mood of the audience. while enjoying the evening, was more serious than usual concert goers. In fact at one point, with several audience members shouting out requests, one person yelled \he knows what to play.\ It should not be interpreted that the evening was without humor or lightheartedness. In fact, Bruce Cockburn's sense of humor was evident as he sang Monty Python's \Look on the Bright Side.\ Presently, some of his new so11gs seemed less political and more personal than past albums. Nevertheless, Cockburn evokes a storyteller's awe. and no one wanted to interfere with or belittle that magic. That lone voice in the audience spoke profound truth. He knew what to play. If all you know of Bruce Cockburn's music is \Rocket Launcher\ you are missing out. Check out his new album \Big Circumstance\ or listen to \Call it Democracy\ or \Where the Lions Are.\ Even if you do not agree with his ultimate 'message' it's more than worthwhile to listen to his music. Next at Albany's Palace Theater ... Friday \Elvis Costello\. Saturday \Berkshire Ballet\ and Wednesday April 12 \Mike and the Mechanics.\ APRIL 13 15 . 20 -22 1989 8:00pm UNION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153 We're back • • II WRUC 89.7 FM IS ON THE AIR FOR SPRING TERM 1989 Tune in Thursday, friday & Monday nights this week to win tickets for Mike & the Mechanics at the Pcalace Theatre on April12. . -; . . -- ~- '· . ,: ' -•. . < . : ·. Catf:.e;, 'fteaa:~' ';:l•li!ltltJ;t~a~, ... ·B·' · ,.a1 r'lrR,e :. -- r _ : ·--·=:-:_:=- ... _ .' .---. =r_ ~ :::- ,. -~:f -::::_ ::;::_:--,~,:~>-? .;. __ ~; .:~~'- · -=':·:-:<- _ .. ~~::~·-_:,_c .. =· _ :::::: .. ,, .. : ··;.?':.:;~;;~_,: -·- ... _ .:.,_. ,. , . \; ;-~;:; __ ·,:-\-.-:::::_.. --~:,~<-'- ·.. -~- ~ :. , .. Sat:) 8,09~ ~nt:fraw, Ca~.f!o~n, .~&:e:ffc sii,H't~IN~lt:er. .. . ·.· $Uf'l].~':f . . . . . ... .. . .. . . Men. ' 'Wino · Maftf{)rd:,i:Countr.y. musit,r:' ,, ··Nir· ~n abfjJ~~nd ol .. l11uegrass. .,. .. . , --;:C Rep., Albany . . 482-45·34 ~·The Immigrant\. Soowtlmes: 8 pm Tues~Fri., 4:30 & 9pm Sat., 2:30pm Sundays. Ticke1 . discounts tor students. Moon Cafe, Albany 436-.0329 Sat., \Genera! Eclectic\. Rel}sselear, Albany . 276-8585 Sun.1 8~00. Thomas Dolby. Tickets $4. •·,;college Cen.ter; Uniit:n f:ri .. sun., 'i;.Jh 11. Unt;rea We~.: 7, 9.,:;]1: cat~at''~ l l ·I j

\ CONCOl/.DlltNSIS A,pril 6, 1989 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ::li~C ~---~--_.......,_ _______ -..,....__......_. _____ _.....,_~...-.;;.~fte_ Different ·steps In ''New York Stories'' HOROSCOPES BY \A\ : ARIES·: This week you will come to realize that what took place ; around the full moon last month was not demeaning, but a . blessing in disguise. You have suffered too many unnecessary :By C~MERON KENNY Arts Editor \New York Stories\ is comprised of three short films by directors Mattin Scorcese, Francis Ford Coppola, and Woody Allen. In the first , section, \Life Lessons\ a suscessful painter hecemes obsessed with his uninterested assistant. In the second, \Zoe\, . a young. girl foils a crime, attends several extravagant parties. and reunites ·her estranged parents. In the third, hOedipus Wrecks\ Woody Allen describes and then · · resQlves his conflict with a ruthlessly embarrassing Jewish mother. Although tbeScorcese piece and Woody AHen's · hilarious ''Oedipus Wrecks\ are worthwhile, the segment by Coppola is weak and irritating,. and it unfortunately detracts ·. from the tllm as a whole. In \Life Lessons\. Lionel Dobie (Nick Nolte) is an exalted, bearish artist who suffers from an intense preoccupation with his assistant (Resanna Arquette). She, in turn,. admires his talent · but is otheiwise unimpressed. The relationship between the pair takes second stage, perhaps unintentionally, to the engrossing commentary on the New York art scene,. This . expose truiges· 'fron{ the. wide .. spread adoration and pampering of Dobie, to the mingling of artists in bars who endlessly of this iff!itating muddle by sleepless nights --look for romance somewhere new. discuss 'who has a sh.ow making \Zoe\ an ironic TAURUS: Though your sign may be the bull, make sure you're scheduled when', and to an portrayal of roo-rich and too- . not dishing out too much. People of the opposite sex are no longer unqerground tunnel in which a .precocious young New going to fall for those smooth lines. If you let them see your real -''Yo-ung. \performance artist'' Yor)cers. Instead, hemistakenly · self you'll get what you want entertains black~clad aspiring assumes that he has produced a · ~ · \ th 'hear· t-w· .arm 1 ·-n·g' :tale ful·l of GEMINI: This week you may begin to realize how gullible artists. The \Lhe Lesson -·· · e f l · d \shee·r spect.acle\ ,(·as ·the • you've been. H;owever, this is still a good time to string others undamenta: · egocentrism an · · · fi a1 d · · · h · adve .... :sement ex. claims·) amidst · along until you are forced to make a m eciSion. insincerity evident in t . eu 'u environment,_....is consistendy elaborate sets (such as the CANCER: That virginal facade is not fooling anyone! Underneath interesting because it i.s the one Parthenon). and the result is is a passionate nature wanting to run free this spring term. This that <they are all equally pretty nauseating. . week stop caring how others see you and follow your instincts. incapable of ~grasping, In contrast, the trials and · LEO: For once in your life be prepared to play the waiting game. . ~indludii)g [)obie, the J;Ilentor~ tribulations ef super Momma's Realize that it~s up to ot:hcrs to make the first move. This week The middle section by boy Sheldon Mills (formerly ·. expecuheunexpected!' Coppola is · inarg·uably the Millstein) of \Oedipus Wrecks\ Weakest of the three. Written ·is incredibly funny. Sheldon's VIRGO: You may find your one-:track mind sidetracked .this wee~ by Coppola and his daughter, it mother obje-cts to his when you find yourself falling for somd conch u~ex~ectedly. ~ate centers around a l2 year eld · engagement to a blond with out! You may find the tables turned an you · e1ng e one use · . .gid parented by a . world- three kids ~a Farrow), and is LIBRA: This promises to be a difficult week but soon your life renowed flutist and a slightly determined to hover will be presented with the opportunity to achieve your heart's less illustrious photographer around-· · literally-· until she desire. You have no need to settle for second best. (Talia Shire). Zoe perforins can persuade him to change his many wondrous tasks; such as mind. AU throughout the SCORPIO: Get out of bed you lazy bum and do ·something· lecturing her mother, solving segment he wh·ines to his productive this week! You may shortly find yourself losing your her father's dilemma,. and analyst and looks painfully priorities once spring term and the beautiful weather get started. bestowing Hershey's Kisses on humiliated, and the entire piece SAGITTARIUS: Something which transpired recently may have a homeless cardboard-dweller. is Woody Allen at his left you feeling angry, or insecure. After months of agonizing over She also has time to befriend suffering, comedic best. a relationship, you are finally released from the bonds of obsession another rich kid, a pudgy little \New York Stories\ is an and free to experience the real joys of living. Arab,- whose mother (the ambitious if not perfect CAPRICORN: Sure. your nature is to make love not war, but _princess of something) thro~S attempt at a long overdue this week beware of an unprecedented streak of violence. Perhaps an unbelievable masquerade exploration of the short film you should take .a short trip away from Union College and what is party for his twelve year old anthology. Tne inequality causing you this stress. peers. The only interesting between the different sections thing about \Zoe\ is trying to can be distracting, and the AQUARIUS: Look forward to a record breaking spring tenn. guess what exactly Coppola Coppola piece is almost Begin on the right track this week and dedicate your free time to thought he was doing. His painfu.l to sit through. academics leaving the weekend for play. protagonist is not charming, to Regardless . however, \New PISCES: Love is in the air this week. .. But not on your parL An say the leas.t •.. and her wodd is York Stories\ is ,probably ·admirer who you once found complementary may become ·neither · \·~nviable ·· ·n-or·· \v-<frth ·. ch~cking -'out, annoying. Be straighLforward . particularly exciting. Coppola particularly if you're a Woody ----------------------_.. could have made something out Allan fan. T·he WRUC 89.7 FM Show · Pick Of The Week Submit to Rescuers Dead Calm IT'S A:PLAID, P·LAID ·woRLD WITH ZIGGY &EEY,ORE ·· Dead men don•t wear plaid, but Ziggy & Eeyo.re doo Ask yourself ... do Mel Torme, David Sanborn or AI DiMeo Ia wear plaid? Did Richard Nixon wear plaid, NAH! Let the ilags be unfurled, for it i.s a plaid, plaid world. JAZZ-WED. 12:00-2:30 PM Louis Armstrong was once asked to define jazz- .. Man, if you gotta ask you'll never know.i• Ziggy and Eeyore were also asked and they noted. '' It's better to: run naked through the Gardens than listen to Guns ·N' Roses.\ The .-Idol! Box 1116 Sing ,Major League Troop Beverly Hills Leviathan Bill & Ted's ... Fletch Lives Dangerous Liaisons Police Academy VI Skin Deep Rain Man Lean on Me Deadline April12 Call Theaters for Show Times. A PLATEFUL OF QUESTIONS This weekly participatory discussion series will be held Tuesday at noon in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center. This week·s question: ARE YOU A PASSIVE CONSUMER OF YOUR EDUCATION? All are welcome[ Bring your lunch. Sponsored by Delta Psi Delta Campus Protestant Ministry ~----~------------------------~----·------~ ..

CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 . Page 15 ___________ A_R_T_S __ & __ E_N_T_E_R_T_A_IN_M __ E_N_T ________ ~~~ Different Steps In ''New York Stories'' HOROSCOPES BY \A\ · ARIES: This week you wi~l come to realize that what took place : around the full moon last month was not demeaning, but a · blessing in disguise. YDu have suffered too many unnecessary sleepless nights --look for romance somewhere new. By CAM,ERON KENNY Arts Editor \New York Stories\ is comprised of three short films by directors Martin Scorcese, Francis Ford Coppola. and Woody Allen. In the first section, \Life Lessons\ a successful painter becomes obsessed with his uninterested assistant. ln the second, \Zoe\, a young girl foils a crime, attends several extravagant parties, and reunites her estranged pru:eHts. In the third, \Oedipus Wrecks\ Woody Allen describes and then resolves his connict with a ruthlessly embarrassing Jewish mother. Although the Scorcese piece and Woody Allen's hilarious \Oedipus Wrecks\ are worthwhile, the segment by Coppola is weak and irritating, and it unfortunately detracts from the film as a whole. In \Life Lessons\ Lionel Dobie (Nick Nolte) is an exalted, bearish artist who suffers from an intcasc preoccupation with his assistant (Rosanna Arquette). She, in tum, admires his talent but is otherwise unimpressed. The relationship between the pair takes second stage, perhaps unintentionally, to the engrossing commentary on the New York art scene. This expose ranges from the wide- spread adoration and pampering of Dobie, to the mingling of artists in bars who endlessly discuss 'who has a show sched'u:led when', and to an undeJground tunnel in which a young \performance artist\ entertains black-clad aspiring artists. The \Life Lesson\-the fundamental egocentrism and insin(;erity evident in their envimnment-is consistently interesting because it is the one that they are all equally incapable of grasping. incl11ding Dobie, the mentor. The middle section by Coppola is inarguably the weakest of the three. Written by CCJppola and his daughter, it centers around a 12 year old · girl parented by a world- renewed flutist and a slightly less illustrious photographer (Ta1ia Shire). Zoe performs many wondrous tasks; such as lectaring her mother, solving her father's dilemma, and bestowing Hershey's Kisses on a homeless cardboard-dweller. She also has time to befriend anotber rich kid, a pudgy little Arab, whose mother (the princess of something) throws an u11believable masquerade part)' for his twelve year old peers. The only interesting thing about \Zoe\ is trying to guess what exactly Coppola thoaght he was doing. His protagonist is not charming, to say tile least, and her world is neither enviable nor particularly exciting. Coppola could have made something out The WRUC 89.7 FM Show Pick Of The Week IT'S A PLAID, PLAID WORLD WITH ZIGGY & EEYORE Dead men don't wear plaid, but Ziggy & Eeyore do. Ask yourself ... do Mel Torme, David Sanborn or AI DiMeola wear plaid? Did Richard Nixon wear plaid, NAHl Let the flags be unfurled, for it is a plaid, plaid world. JAZZ~WED. 12:00a2:30 PM Louis Armstrong was one€ asked to define jazz- \Man if you g.otta ask you'll never know.\ Ziggy and Eeyore were also asked and they noted. \ It's better to nm naked through the Gardens than listen to Guns 'N' Roses.\ of this irritating mHddle by making \Zoe\ an ironic portrayal of too-rich and too- precocious young New Yorkers. Instead, he mistakenly assumes that he has produced a 'heart-warming' tale full of \sheer spectacle\ (as the advertisement exclaims} amidst elaborate sets (such as the Parthenon), and the result is pretty nauseating. In contrast, the trials aad tribulations of s1:1per Momma's boy Sheldon Mills (formerly Millstein) of \OedipMs Wrecks\ is iBcredibly funny. Sheldon's mother objects to his engagement to a blond with three kids (Mia Farrow), and is determined to hover around-literally-until she can persuade him to change his mind. All throughout the segment he whines to his analyst and looks painfully humiliated, and the entiFe piece is Woody Allen at his suffering, comedic best. \New York Stories\ is an ambitious if not perfect attempt at a long overdue exploration of the short film anthology. The inequality between the different sections can be distracting, and the Coppola piece is almost painful to sit through. Regardless ·however, \New York Stories\ is probably worth checking out, particularly if you're a Woody Allan fan. TAURUS: Though your sign may be the bull, make sure you're not dishing out too much. People of the opposite sex are no longer • going to fall for those smooth lines. If you let them see your real . self you'll get wnat you want. GEMINI: This week yoll may begin to realize how gullible you've been. However, this is still a good time to string others • along until you are forced. to make a final decision. CANCER: That virginal facmlc is not fooling anyone! Underneath is a passionate nature w:.mting to run free this spring term. This week stop caring how o1h.ers sec you and follow yo'ur instincts. LEO: For once in your life I:J~ prepared to play the waiting game. Realize that it's up to <>Lhcrs to make the Hrst move. This week expect the unexpected!' · VIRG 0: You may find your one-track mind sidetracked this week when you find yourself falling for someone unexpectedly. Watch out! You may find the tatles turned and you being me one used. LIBRA: This promises to be a difficHlt week but soon your life will be presented with the: opportunity to achieve your heart's desire. You have no need to sctlk~ for sccoRd best. SCORPIO: Get out of l>cd you lazy bum and do something productive this week! You may shortly f~nd yourself losing your priorities once spring term a11d the beautiful wcalhcr get started. SAGITTARIUS: Sorncthi11g which transpired recently may have left you feeling angry, o.r insecure. After months of agonizing over a relationship, you arc finally released from the bonds of obsession and free to experience tll.c Ic:aljoys of living. CAPRICORN: Sure, your nature is to make love not war, but this week beware of an un()rccedcntcd streak of violence. Perhaps you should take a short trip away from U11ion College and what is causing you this stress. AQUARIUS: Look fa.rward to a record breaking spring tcnn. Begin on the right track tlli~ week and dcdi~ate your free time to academics leaving the w~ckcnd for play. PISCES: Love is in the air this week ... But not on your part. An admirer who you oac<e f()uad complementary may become annoying. Be straightforward .. A PLATEFUL OF QUESTIONS This weekly participatory dis~tts'Si<>n series will be held Tuesday at n()on in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center. This week's question: ARE YOU A PASSIVE CONSUMER OF YOUR EDUCATJON? All are welcome[ Bring your lunc:h. Sponsored by Delta Psi Delta Campus Protestant Ministry .·

Page 16 CONCORDJENSlS April 6, 1989 •. , . • I . . ' i ' \ ... ~ . APRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 1989 8:00pm UN ION COLLEGE THEATRE.· 37·0- 61'53 I I i· - . .¥-\\ ON.SALE AT THE RATHSKELLAR ... . ~ . . 1 can of Jo.lt Cola only 49¢ get the second can for ....____..,.~ only 5¢ more Union Co((ege While Supplies Last ..

CLUB NEWS Campus Protestant ' Ministry: Bible. study takes place in CC 205 on Thursdays from 11:30- 1,2:45., Our current study is entitled \Reaching though loneliness: friendship, . • . d . 1' d II commumty an , so ltu ·. e . Bring your own lunch or bring a tray out from the Upperelass Dining Room. All are 1 .. I .we come. Worship is at 6 PM on Sunday in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center. · . \ A Plateful of Questions, a :·participatory discussion group co-sponsored by Delta Psi . Peha and Campus Protestant Ministry, meets at noon on ... Tuesdays in the 4th floor Jounge of the College Center. NEWMAN Ci.OB ACTIVITIES: . M\er\toi.,. ... 'Tii]ies=Frfd-ay\: 'April 7th at Noon all are - welcom~ ta bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton · Taoe in CC'404B. . Over-Night Retreat- Frid!ly, April 7th at 5 p.m. to ·Saturday, April 8th at 5 p.m. at 1630 Nott Street. Theme: -~ The Risk of B.eing Myself . . Donation of $5 when you ·· register with Sr. Joan. CROP Walk-April 9th. i ·; Sunday leaves from Linton ~ High School. Registration \;from 12:30 on until Opening , Ceremony at 1:30 p.m. 10 -.-~ Kilometers. Please SJ]Onsor those students who are seeking . sponsors. · Monday Night Supper- :. April lOth at 5 pm in CC203 · • either use your meal plan or · bring your o.wn and· join · Spanish Professor Camille : Qualtere for conversation and · · an informal presentation on · \Intercultural Awareness.\ Catholic Video Series- . Tuesdays .from 4:30 - 5.:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at noon in CC 404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. The Department of .. Psychology is conducting a reapppointment review for Assistant Professor Ken DeBono. Faculty members or students who wish to comment should contact Professors Seth Greenburg, Suzie Benack or Frank Calabria at Ext. 6257. CONCORDIENSIS April 6, 1989 Page 11 CLASSIFIEDS r · ·OFF-CAMPUS . 'EIVlPLOYMENT American Ca,ncer Society Franklin Street Po,gition: Temporary Telephone Recruiter {no sales required) . Wage: $4;00perhour PERSONALS Hey Zim, ·· There was something you asked me to do for you this term, but I can't remember ·: what it is ... Hope Germany is 1· swell, bow was the plane ride? . :R. Reed Hours: Flexible (evenings and 1 Sat.) Hallie, Can I call you Snow White? I'd let the 7 dwarfs take care of me Starts JanuarY 1:989 · CaU: Amy_ 377-Z321 .for interview Housesitter Available. May-August. ProfessionaL For infot111ation cal134iS-2034. Ask for Joan. . anytime. -Amanda Jennifer F. :/... You are driving me·crazy. . . MrukC. ·~ FOUND: 1 turquoise, silver , dtop earring at Wllitaker House during pre-registration. Looking for a frat~rnity, , sorority or student organization Women's Crew: that would like to make $500 Good Luck this weekend! - $1,000 for a one week on- , . Think feather blades, timing, ' campus marketing project. ~~ ~good start. You can do it! Must be organized and · m. hardworking. Call Becky L or · Cheryl at 1-800-592-2121. Brandmuffin, Kansas maybe? Can I just click . my heels? FOUND: A ladies- wrist watch with oriental numbers was found in Alumni Gym 011 March 7. It can be picked up at the Athletics Office on level 4 of the gym. : Kirstin, Where's the seatbelt? Huh? AmyY, . Congratulations on your criterior. I knew you'd do it! -Shelley BLOOM COUNTY I1t1 5ef(!0()6'.:. YfJV'f<e· G!IINING II CHILP 11/Vl? tm l.05ffV& (11'/ 866T ef/PPY. 11 f!Ao61ft.tJf'& liN!? II HI1Ke !IV liN lJ!IHOt.Y ~lrJt.O&!CIIL (JNION ... rrs 1l?f/e IN II Y~R IU 5fiY; \lf{)J:t'£ / fPT'S 6(} W!Nt7- 6(JKAN&/\ CAMPUS NEWS Sue 'B' & Jen, What's in the bag? Rudy, -S I miss my favorite 10 year old. Thanks for the book and Happy belated birthday. -Calvin Matt & Ken, When you least expect it, Expect it! Your Bahamas Buddies Kathy, Have fun in your SINGLE this Saturday night, April 9th! Lord SDT Pledges - Hang in there! The fun has just . begun. Love, The Sisters · Soup- Happy 20th! You're not a teenager, or a freshman any : more - You have to make up a new all,purpose excuse! Love. Mudpack. • 1 SDT Pledges- . 1 No more anxiety attacks - The time has come!! I ~----::-~-~---:-- ' Start getting in shape ... The r Delta Gamma Olympics are i coming. . Ronnie, Only 9 1/2 weeks to go! -Burgstcin StiHman- A little ptesmo action sometime this week? Cheryl, I'm psyched your back. We'll have a great term. ~ove, Cathy Cathy, i Ken Here's to a great term. I'U buy · It. '- 11 b . · l 1 th dri . ks\ . w1 e an amazmg erm. e n .. , Lo y · · -Th 21 · · ·td ;. · ve a. e yearo . , Cathy JenW. I'm here when you need me . Hang in there. I love you! Your Big Sister K- Finally, the pitchers are full. and the restaurant is empty! Wellington Little Lina. Your B-days over - now I expect you to take me out. - Love Ya, Cathy Lina and Robin, You should try out for the next Charlie's Angels. Love Ya, Cathy by Berke Breathed fiN/? YOVU .7fl}~ ''(j(}f(f(Y, ff}lfl:,. IP f(fi7H~K 5TAY !lOMe IINJl V/17~0/fiP~ MYK/tl'9 flf<81 VOtS1miV6.\

. . Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS April' 6, 1989 WANTED: TERMS ABROAD PICTURES for Yearbook. They can be returned, just place name and address on back of photo. Submit NOW to ge your pictures in. Send to THE GARNET, Student Activities Office, though campus mail. v. . .· b ·k· .~ear oo. NYU PROFESSOR DENNIS WRONG TO SPEAK AT SOCIOLOGY CONFERENCE Cultural and pol'iticl observer Dennis H. Wrong will be the keynote speaker at the 10th annnua:I meeting of Sociologists of Upstate Eastern New York on Friday, April14 at 1:15 p.m. in Hale House. The conference, sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, is free and open to the pubtic. It will also incLude a panel disctJssion on ''Sociology in the 1990s\ by Wrong and local sociologists at 3:00 p.m. Wrong, a long time professor of sociologist New York University, will speak on \The Influence of Sociological Ideas on American Culture.\ A Guggenheim Fellow (1984-85), his comments and analyses have ap.peared in Dissent, Commentary, The New Republic, Scientific American, New Yor.k Review of Books, and The New yor.k Times Magazine. His books include Sketpical Sociology and Power: Its Forms, Bases and Uses. The panel discussion, a response to Wrong's keynote address and an informal discussion of the field of sociology, will feature as panelists Professor Wrong; Lynda Ames (Center for Women in Government); Richard Hall {professor, SUNY A); Paul Murray (professor, Siena College); and Terry Weiner (professor, Union College.) For furher information contact: Donileen R. Loseke; Department of Sociology/ Anthropology (extension 6083). '- KHRRTE CLUB SCH.EDULE TUESDRY 6 - Bpm THURSDR Y '1 :30 -_6:30pm Classes are held in the excercise room .of the ... gym and run gen~rally 1 1/2 hours ' RLL BRE WELCOmE!~ Dana IDein, Josh Waldman, Ellen Rosner, Kevin Ireland, and Judy · Bruhn would like to thank the following senior gift drive volunteers for their hard work winter term: . ' . ,_ Lori Adelstei:t1 AmyBaboft' Ruth Cohen Jackie Czech Hope Freedman Kate Gaffney Beth Goodsmith Laura Iacoviello RobinJaoobsorl Steffani Larios . Danielle Lavigna KathNyhus · Kelley Park Lisa Wee ValSarwin RisaSotsky Lisa Tortorello Elizabeth Wallach Winona Wigfall WANT TO EARN A QUICK 50 BUCKS??? The Homecoming '89 Committee is currently accepting drawing~ for this year's T;,;Shirt. ' The person who comes up with the bestT-Shirt design will win $50.00. Call370·6168 for theme details .relating to design. . APPLY FOR ORIENTATION ADVISOR! INDIAN BLANKET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90, And Choice Of Blue Or Brown. Authentic Indian Design Each One Personally Blessed By Wise Owl. Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reservation 5150. value For only $39. Postpaid Satisfaction Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed By Indian Medicine Nlan Your Order Provides Help urgently Needed By Tribe, Please write: Clllef Wise Owl, Drowning cr~IC Reservation, RN2 sox 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 HAPPY HOUR, MON.-FRI. 5-7 PM , ' Slaf$ltll~~ I Applications • lll ' Dean of Students Office Third Floor College Center - Deadline April 14 - Restaurant and Bar EVERY FRIDAY FREE WINGS 16 OZ. MUGS•75¢ NEW DRINK SPECIALS at Happy Hour MONDAY: TUESDAY: BUD NITE SCHNAPP'S NITE 9- 12 PM 10-12:00 PM WEDNESDAY: WING NITE 7- t:OO AM THURSDAY: MIXED DHINKS 9-12:00 PM FRIDAY! FREE WINGS 5-7:00 PM SATURDA V: SING-A-LONG WITH LONE TONE Bottles $1.00 Pitchers $3.75 ALL SHOTS 95¢ Peppermint, Peach, strawberry, root beer 2 for 1 $3.50/0DR. All Rail Drinks $1.00 1 0:00-Giose *MUST BE 21 YRS. OLD* 501 HATTIE STREET, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 12308 (518) 393-0594

CONCORJJIENSIS A.vril 6, 1989 Page 19 ... Athlete Of The Week By SCOTT ADAMS I . Sports E!)itor Junior attacknlan John Keller is this week:s . Athlete· of the Week for his otltstan4ing play in the fist four Men's Lacrosse games. A graduate of Columbia High School, Jolln has sbown tremendous improvement in each of. ,his three seasons. After limited play that vroduced 3 _goals and 1 as-sist as a freshman, John .. stepped in to become the team's leading scorer last year with 29 goals and 8 assists for 37 p(>ints: This year. John already has a staggering 24 points, {16 goals, 8 assists), less than a third of tile way through the 13-game season. In the ()pener against Rochester, John's 6 goals and 4 assists led the Dutchm.en to a 14-8 win. Then,. in a 9:..8 loss to RlT, he added :another 3 goals and 2 assists. In a 10-7 win against Geneseo on the first of the month~. he had2 and 1. Finally, John addedanother6 points .. .to his taHy on Tuesday. His 5 goals and 1 assist combined with sophomore Alan Fleischer's 4 goals and 2 assists :paced the Dutchmen in a 15-1 romping over Skidmore. With John leading the way, the 1989 Men's Lax team looks impressive, and should improve on its fine 3-1 start. Congratulations, John, and keep up the good work. M.en's Lax Opens Strong By BILL MASSIE . 1'he l989 Mell's Lacrosse team promises m be one of the . t?est teams in recent history. ·This potentialbecame apparent an the tearn•s aJinual Florida trip, where th.ey defeated teams from Amhe:rst., Connecticut C()llege and Tu:fts. The team carFied this momentum into.the season openex against Rochester, d~fealing U of R by a 14:7 score. .sc()ring_ pu_n:ch was provided by attackinan John :g.ener, with six goals and four assists: Freshman go&tender Paul Garnett teamed up with older brvther Steve on the defensive e11d of the field, allowing only seven goals in his first varsity game. The next two games- prov~d to be more challenging than the first, but aggressive defense and more offenseo from Kel1er and Dave DeBerardinis provided what was needed to put down R.I.T., 9\8 and Geneseo, lQ .. 7. Goalie Paul Garneott commented that the; team played . very well .against a tough Geneseo squad, adding that \everyone was really clicking out there.•• When asked how he felt starting as a fteshman ; he rsponded that he is, \... becoming more comfortable in ' net every game,\ noting that his -success has been aided by the strong Pll:!Y _Qf 4~fe!lsiy~ .I1liddiesPat . Lawson and Mike Richardson. Offensively speaking> John Keller has been THE standout, but a· good portion of the scoring through the first three games has come from co- c.aptain Nick Baratoff, sophomore Alan Fleiscber and junior Pete Cotier. On the defensive side of the field, the team ~s been led by Garnett, Lawson, and C.J. Johnsen. Coach Priore led this. confident team onto th~ field TueSday, and proved to a rather weak Skidmore team that his troops will not let up to anyo11e. The team got off to a quick start, and behind scoring by (who else?) Keller, who had five goals and one assist, crushed Skidmore 16-1! Lucey, who had g.otten the nod to start, proved to be the right mau for the job, allowing only one goal, and providing strong ·motivation f@r ·the offense to put on a show of their own. After the nrst three victories, the team could have let up, feeling tha:t they would easily beat Skidmore, but like any potential champion, they ensured victory with consistent aggressive play, relaxing only when victory was assured. If · the team continues to play Hke this, you can rest assured that no one will be able to stop them. MOUTHING OFF Uy A:NDY BRAVER shed some light on all three subjects. You know, it 1 S very funny. Steve Fishet is a very lucky My article is stuck on a disk man. A little over three weeks that my computet says has ago, head coach Bill Frieder \problems .. \ It looks fine to announced that he was leaving me, but I'm. no computer. To for the same position at top it all off, it seems that I Arizona State. Fisher, was then am the one witQ. the problems elevated to interim head coach. .now. How am. I suppbsed to Michigan) carried on the broad rethink, restate., and teproduce shoulders of super-shooter Glen what I can't.getto? I guess this Rice, won six consecutive is one of the .reasons why New games and the NatiQna1 York Mets manager Davey Championship. In the final, Johnson does n(Jt live by his Fisher's Wolverines defeated computer's every word,-because . another Cinderella. Sewn Hall, he know~ that its words might 80\ 79. The Pirates and their stop or get stuck at any coach, ·p~J. Carliserno~ were moment. beaten by two foul sh.cts with Another problem I had when tbree.seconds remaining in the writing my original article was game, ending the Hall's run trying to decide what to write towards their first about. Stiould I write about championship. I almost forgot Michigan's stunning and to mention one thing-- Bill thrilling v.ictory over Seton Fisher had better be named .Hall to caJ>ture College permanent coach at Michigan. ·BasketbaH' s National When was the last time a coach . Championship. Or the got fir~d with an undefeated National H()ckey League's record and a National playoffs? How about the start Championship to boot\ll? <>f the baseball season? See Moving te the ice, the 1 what I mean; this is not an National Hockey Geague's easy decis~<>n. s·o, I deci~ed to reg.ular season ended amidst turmoil in New York, ·and splendor in Canada. The New York Rangers have been reeling, losing 13 of their last 15 games, and have been ravaged by injuries. However, they will ma:ke it into the Wales Conference Finals. Their opponent will be the Montreal Canadiens. The Calgary Flames will easily defeat the Minnesota North Stars in the Campbell Conference Finals, and then win Lord Stanley's Cup in ,six over the Canad.iens. Baseball season opeas with a new Commissioner and National League President, as well .as many new managers. But everything will be the same. Great seasons by the usual guys, disappointing seasons from a few key players, and totally une:xpected leaps into stardom from unknowns and also-rans . Last but not least, for all of you sports fans out there, some NFL mini .. camps open up next Monday. Just thought you ~hould know. Where doos all of the time go?!? . (!! nn cnro fens is SPORTS s·PORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor So far, it has been an extraordinary year for Union Collelge athletes. Some have garnered. prestigious individual honors, and a few teams have qualified for, and acquitted themselves well in post season competition. Aside from these athletes who have gained attention for outstanding performances, there have been many younger Dutchmen who have gained invaluable experience while demonstrating potential for continuing the type of success achieved by their teammates and squads. During the fall, the Women's · Field Hockey Team overshadowed all other teams by .putting together a spectacular 17-l season and by winning the ECAC Mid- Atlantic Championship. This squad had a combination of seasoned veterans arid young talent, and was led by .senior Courtney Lynch. L yncb capped offher career by being awarded several honors. Among them arc ECAC Mid-Atlantic First Team All-American~ First Team All-State, Penn Monto Coaches Association Division III All-American Second Team, and also the Albany Chamber of Commerce's Collegiate Female Athlete ofthe Year. The Women's Volleyball may have only finished with a 17-17 record, but they placed extremely well in some tournaments and played a long and difficult schedule. The football team had a somewhat disappointiag season with a 4-4 record, b11t that is only because mediocrity has not been the norm in recent years. There were some outstanding performances registered by the Dutchmen gridders, and in partict1lar,. the defens.e played solidly throughout the season. During the winter term, the selection of the Athlete Of The Week was always a difficult one because of the consistent number of great performances recorded by different athletes every week. The Men's Hockey Team finished the .season with a 19-8-2 record. placed second in the ECAC, qualified for the NCAA tournament, and goalie Ron Kinghorn received Second Team All.Arnerican Honors. The emergence of a strong swimming program is characterized by the number of Union records which fell in the recently renovated pool, and the two Honorable Mention All- American in the NCAA Division III Championships. They were the 200 medley relay team of Anne Glicksman, Jen Joyce, Jean Cutrone, and Kate Kavaney, who also garnered an individual award in the 100 butterfly. For the men's half of the swimming program, Torn Kim shattered many records and became the first Union man to place in the Nationals. The Men's Basketball Team had a late season surge and played some exhilirating come- from-behind basketball against some highly regarded teams to earn a spot in the ECAC playoffs. They finished 14-11 , and the prospects for this young squad are bright, as it is for the Women's Hoopsters. They finished at 10-11. but that is not a reflection of the youth and talent that played hard throughoutthescason .. The Indoor Track Team finished fourth in the state, their performance highlighted by Herrika Poor's championship in the 400 meters. During Spring Break, several Union teams began their seasons down South, and have started their spring seasons on the right foot. The success and level of performance that has characterized Union sports this year appears to be being continuing. Because of the numerous excellent performances throughout the first two terms of this year, it is not an easy job to give all the athletes the credit that they deserve and have earned. I hope no one feels slighted by my attempt to condense all their accomplishments into one article. VISAGE HAIR AND TANNING STUDIO 551 NOTT ST. 37 4·0351 TANNING-' ALL VISITS ARE $1.00

., ..... .''- ~ :.:: •• ~ • <f. ;;.., \' ' ·,-.,· MeA's Lax· beat Skidmore 1'5·1: TUe$day to improve to 3~1. After a rai·nour on Tt~esday, Men's Baseball opens the today at Hartwick. season ., Kinghorn Honored Selected Second Team All- American· Ry SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor The American Hockey Coaches Association this week named junior standout goalie Ron Kinghorn to the second team <Jf the Eastern Titan All- American tealfi. Already the owner of Union records for minutes played ( 1.673.09) and victories by a goalie in a single season (19 and also saved 2.7% more Sh()tS. Ron's numllers were second only to Hamilton Senior Guy Hebert's, who saved an impressive 92.3% of his shots ami l!ad a 256 goals against average. this past year), Ron is looking forward to a. senior year in which he will take aim .at more ~ school records. Ironically, it is $ :j his coach, Wayne McDougal §:., '86, who set many of those CIJ 1 0: records. :r:: 0 His play this year was 10 fantastic. He had a low 2.69 o goals against average, saved § 90.8% of the shots fired- a.. against him, and the Dutchmen Skaters were 19-7-2 with him in net. With a career record of 33-24-3, what was particularly impressive about Ron's play this year was the extent of his impro\vcment. He droppped his goals against average a full L03 in 1988-89 over 1987-88 Union Goalie Ron Kinghorn With Ron returning, rhe 193 9-90 seasm could prove to be just as successful as the 19d.8-39 camp~ign was for tl':c Union Hockey teain, perhaps even more. Co.ngratulations, Ron, on this p-restigious award. April 6, 1989 Baseball P . . , review: Dutchmen Will Rely On Power, Not Speed This Season By Sports Info.-mation Bureau The Union College baseball team is slower a foot this season, but head coach Gary Reynolds is pleased with the squad's potential for -power throughout the lineup as well as its overall depth. Reynolds is hoping that these two factors will once again .make the Dutchmen a contender for the ECAC Upstate New York crown. \We've got more depth and . quality depth than we've had since I've been here,\ explained Reynolds. \The .pitching staff · has the potential to be the best I've ever had as a staff. and we're strong up the middle. We've displayed power up and do'Vn the lineup, and our defensive play has been very good. I'm very optimistic about the year.\ In three seasons as head mentor, Reynolds has guided the Dutchmen to records of 16- 7 in 1986, 16-6 in '87, and 10- 10 last year. The squad won the Upstate New York title during his rookie campaign and finished second to local rival RPI the following year. His two 16-win campaigns tied for the all-time Union record for victories in a season. . During those three seasons the Dutchmen stole 117 of 144 bases. but Reynolds says this year, \We may have to be more conservative with out running game.\ Still, he said. \We'll be just as aggressive with our bats in terms of hit and run, sacr-ificing and the like. Teams are going to have to be on their toes against us.\ While the pitching is young, the staff is deeper than it has been in years; both in the starting rotation and in the buUpen. Reynolds has seven hurlers he is counting on, four of which will make up the rotation, Junior . Mark Trudeau and sophomore Mark Callahan are the experienced members of the starting rotation while junior- Aaron Root and freshman Craig Ferrero will be learning under fire. Trudeau, a two-year letter winner, was 1-1 in 21 innings covering six games last season while Callahan wa& 2-0 in eight outings. Senior three-year letter winner Dave Giordano, junior \1ark Nadeau, and sophomore )ave Haas make up the relief ~orps. Junior Pat Secchiarolli will start at catcher. A two-year letter winner, Secchiarolli has proven. himself to have a strong arm as well as an excellent understanding of game situations. In his first two seasons he has hit .367 and .309 respectively while driving in a combined 25 runs in 36 games. The infield is a veteran one with senior Dan Klinger starting his fourth campaign at first. Junior two-year letter winner Bill Brundige returns to second with Trudeau or Callahan at short. Tracy Valachovic, a two-year letter winner. returns to third. Klinger is one of the keys to the middle of Union's batting order. He hit .351 as a freshman with 22 RBI and .301 with 16 runs batted in as a To the Faculty, Staff & Students ofUnion College sophomore. A knee injury limited him to parts of just 14 games' last year where he hit .208 with nine RBI. \Dan's feeling like his old self and that's good for us,\ smiled Reynolds. \There was a big void in the middle of the · lineup after we lost him last year. Tllis season_. hls knee appears stable and he's ready for a big senior campaign.\ Brundige. who has appeared in 14 games in each of his first two seasons, itit .350 as a freshman and .409 last year while Vatachovic bit .255 last season in 47 at bats. I Senior Teny Amarante anchors a young but talented outfield that includes sophomore Ed Whelan in right and either sophomore Neil Walkoff or Root in center, All four players have displayed. outstanding speed and' strong arms. Amarante, who has led the team in RBI the last two .sasons (27 and 22 respecti:vely), has hit .418 and .388. He, along with Klinger, will supply the power and leadership for this relatively young squad. \I think that if we can get off to a fast start, give the young players the confidence in themselves and in the team, then I feel we'll be in for a real' good . year;... Reynolds explained. \I've been very pleased with what I've seen during preseason in terms of talent, depth, attitude, and desire. We have the potential to go a long way this season.'' 'THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR SUPPORT DURING OUR 1988-89 \SEASON\ The Union College Skating Dutchmen

0 z ~ 8 ...J I:U 0 5 (.) CJ) ?ii 0 b I a Men's Lax· beat Skidmore 15-1 Tuesday to improve to 3·1. After a rainout on Tuesday, Men's .Baseball opens the season today at Hartwick. Kinghorn Honored Selected Second Team All- American By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor and also saved 2.7% morr ;;;hots. The American Hockey Co<Jches Association this week named junior standout goalie Rofl Kinghorn to the second team of the Eastern Titan All- American tcani. Ron's number~ were sccon~I only to Hamilton Senior Guy Hebert's, who saved an impressive 92.3% of his shots and had a 2.56 goals against average. Already the owner of Union rcc<Jrds for minutes played II .673.09) and victories by a goalie in a single season (19 this past year), Ron is looking forward to a senior year in which he will take aim at more ~ sch<Jol records. Ironically, it is § his coach, Wayne McDougal ~ 'X(J, who set many of those ~ r..x:ords. I (,) I :lis play this year was iii fantastic. He had a low 2.69 o b I a. goals against average, saved lJ(U\\/; of the shots fired against him, and the Dutch men Skttcrswerc 19-7-2 with him in n(:t. With a career record of 33-~4-3, what was particularly impressive about Ron's play this year was the extent of his inll)fovcmcnt. He droppped his goals against average a full 1.03 in 1988-89 over 1987-88 Union Goalie Ron Kinghorn With Ron returning, the 1989-')0 season could prove to be just as successful as the 19,~8-;~9 campaign was for tl:e Union Hockey team, perhaps even more. Men's Basebalt M~tl's lacrosse Wom~n's SOftball lvlan's Base!:Ja:ll Women's Lacrosse .JV Women's Lacrosse Men's Ten~tis Womerl's Track Women's Fb.1gby Men's Golf Women's Softban Merls Tennis Congratulations, Ron, on this prestigious award. ·-.·.·~- : Saturday~ AprU S vs. Oneonta {2} vs. Wells vs, Wells vs: Birtghamton at Albany lnvy at Albany lnvy t:OO H:OO. 12:00 UID ·9':00 41:00 S~itnp~y;, Apdl ~ .·. . . . . . v~; l3!ngl'la'riltotf{2) t':O(f Mctnday, ~prrU 10 \ . vs,. H~iltOn · ~;® · Away Home, Home~ Home Away,· April 6, 1989 Baseball Preview: Dutchmen Will Rely On Power, Not Speed This Season By Sports Information Bureau The Union College baseball team is slower a foot this season, but head coach Gary Reynolds is pleased with the squad's potential for power throughout the lineup as well as its overall depth. Reynolds is hoping that these two factors will once again make the Dutchmen a contender for the ECAC Upstate New York crown. \We've got more depth and quality depth than we've had since I've been here, rr explained Reynolds. \The pitching staff has the potential to be the best I've ever had as a staff, and we're strong up the middle. We've displayed power up and down the lineup, and our defensive play has been very good. I'm very optimistic about the year.\ In three seasons as head mentor, Reynolds has guided the Dutchmen to records of 16- 7 in 1986, 16-6 in '87, and 10- 10 last year. The squad won the Upstate New York title during his rookie campaign and finished second to local rival RPI the following year. His two 16-win campaigns tied for the all-time Union record for victories in a season. During those three seasons the Dutchmen stole 117 of 144 bases, but Reynolds says this year, \We may have to be more conservative with our running game.\ Still, he said, \We'll be just as aggressive with our bats in terms of hit and run, sacrificing and the like. Teams are going to have to be on their toes against us.\ While the pitching is young, the staff is deeper than it has been in years; both in the starting rotation and in the bullpen. Reynolds has seven hurlers he is counting on, four of which will make up the rotation. Junior . Mark Trudeau and sophomore Mark Callahan are the experienced members of the starting rotation while junior Aaron Root and freshman Craig Ferrero will be learning under fire. Trudeau. a two-year letter winner, was 1-1 in 21 innings covering six games last season while Callahan wa!) 2-0 in eight outings. Senior three-year letter .vinner Dave Giordano, junior Vlark Nadeau. and sophomore )ave Haas make up the relief :orps. Junior Pat Seechiarolli will start at catcher. A two-year letter winner, Secchiarolli has proven himself to have a strong arm as well as an excellent understanding of game situations. In his first two seasons he has hit .367 and .309 respectively while driving in a combined 25 runs in 36 games. The infield is a veteran one with senior Dan Klinger starting his fourth campaign at first. Junior two-year letter winner Bill Brundige returns to second with Trudeau or Callahan at short. Tracy Valachovic, a two-year letter winner, returns to third. Klinger is one of the keys to the middle of Union's batting order. He hit .351 as a freshman with 22 RBI and .301 with 16 runs batted in as a To the Faculty, Staff & Students of Union College sophomore. A knee injury limited him to parts of just 14 games last year where he hit .20& with nine RBI. \Dan's feeling like his old self aad that's good for us,\ smiled Reynolds. \There was a big void in the middle of the lineup after we lost him last year. This season his knee appears stable and he's ready for a big senior campaign.\ Bmndige, who· has appeared in 14 games in each of his first two seasons, \hit .350 as a freshman and .409 last year while Valachovic hit .255 last season in 4 7 at bats. Senior Tony Amarante anchors a young but talented outfield that includes sophomore Ed Whelan in right and either sophomore Neil Walkoff or Root in center, All four IJlayers have displayed outstanding speed and strong arms. Amarante, who has led the team in RBI the last two sasons (27 and 22 respectively), has hit .418 and .388. He, along with Klinger. will supply the power and leadership for this relatively young squad. \1 think that if we can get off to a fast start, give the young players the confidence in themselves and in the team, then I feel we'll be in for a real good year,\ Reynolds explained. \I've been very pleased with what I've seen during preseason in terms of talent, depth, attitude, and desire. We have the potential to go a long way this season.\ 'THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR SUPPORT DURING OUR 1988-89 SEASON\ The Union College Skating Dutchmen

Vol. CXVIII, No. 18 . Schene.ctady, New York April 13, l~J$ 9 ·union·Goes.To D.C. Students, F acuity And Alumni March On Washington By SUSAN D. SHAFFER and R. REED WmDDEN Ed:jtors-in-(hief Four Greyhound buses left f.rom me Schenec~dy Planned Parenthood .Saturday night to · students were alsoat the march · demonstrating .all behalf of tneir children's futiU'e~ ·: Many other colleages were represented. at :tl!e march as well. Students callle from such colleges and Ulli:t~ersities as Harvard, St Lawre-11ce, Brown, The march, spurred by the re- examination of the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision to give women the right to an abortion, saw as many as 600,000 people. Although officials released a number approximating 300,000, the count by National Abortion Rights Action League taken from the sign-in lists was double that amount. ~ Many celebrities showed u. their support at the event by . ·~ leading off the march and ci · speaking in favor of the right ~. to choose. Morgan Fairchild, ~ Whoopie Goldberg, Valerie t:n g !f a.. Harper, Kelly McGillis, Leonard Nimoy, and Phil Donahue were among the 40 or Gloria Steinem asks wls 'he Supreme CC?urt going to .:affirm us as free citizens and not prope.rty?\ at the National Marcil f-er Women's Equality, Women's lives. Her speech is being\signec;l.~o the, crowd as facilitafofs, press and ho.nored guests surtOUI'ld the rally platform. ·so stm'S'afthetiiatch. Veroniea Hamil stated, \My civil rights are in jeopardy. Privacy and freedom -- that's what it's all about.\ She also stated that she is proud to be an American and that \the opposition is un- American.\ Melanie Mayron of Thlrtysometb-ing commented that, \It is absolutely important to know how people feel ~- abortion is not the issue. The issue is who take approximately 200 :people to march on Washington, DC ; for their rights to fre~d(lm of · choice. Included on the busi!!S were not only people from the city of Schenectady, but aiso both Skidmore and Union students. Approximately 17 students and faculty froin Union decided to take a stand this weekend in Washington. There were as well some. Alumni from- the College at the march. Amongst them were DanielS. Papemik; class of 1958 and a former Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis, who was pleased to see a constituency from Union. Parents of. Albany, University of Miami, University of North Carolina, and many more: People came , :1 from as f~ away ~s Alaska and . California, and Maine, New . Hampshire, and Vermont. At the rail y an MIT student spoke · in behalf of all C()lt.ege students present. She remarled that this year has marked the turning point from that &-f apathy to action within the: colleges and she added that feminism is no longer a dirty word on campuses, · chooses.\ The march had a flavor .of the ' sixties as Judy Collins sang · \Amazing Grace,\ and Peter, · Paul, and Mary sang \If I Had a Hammer. 11 Billye A very of the National Continued on page 4 ·College Suspends Student For Pulling Fire Alarm~ By ELISE HOODY News Editor . This past Sunchy morning, a student was caugh.t pulling the fire alarms in bt~th Fox and Davidson dormitcries at the respective times of 4:07 a.m. and 4:26 a.m. A.~ a result of his actions he has been suspended from tile College. The student, 'W:ho admitted his guilt, had oth.e choice of having the charge beard either .. by the SubcouncEl on Student Conduct or by an administrative review board. The latter of the two is composed of nin.e students and an adviser who is usually the assistant dean of students. The administrative leview board consists mainly cfthe assistant . dean .of students who aCts as the principal in-vestigator and makes the corresponding recommendations to the dean of students. In this· case, the student • chose to have his case heard by an administrative review board~ Tuesday of this week, after · reviewing the incident, the board handed the student a · suspension ruling. Dean Alford, Assistant Dean of · Students, described the · situation as a case of \total and blatant disregard for fire safety and rights and privileges of others.\ This particular decision comes in the wake of the • College's efforts to crack down · on student misconduct. Last · ·fall two students, who were ·. also found guilty of pulling flre alanns, suffered a $100 fme and suspension f~9m all . campus residence halls. Pierce Re·cipient Of $13,000 For Watson Fellowship By JENNIFER HOLMES imp<lrtant. Latin American country. South Africa is tlte \The Thomas J. Watson . only developed African Foundation in 1968 I country. It is also the m()st inaugurated a fellowship ! powerful country possessing program which enables college v like Brazil the most resoure--es graduates of unusual promise and the most industry. to engage in a year of . Doug will leave in July for independent study and travel : Sao Paulo, .Brazil in hopes ()f abroad following graduation.\ 1 . meeting with leading liberatioll This year Douglas Pierce was , theologists consi~ting of two chosen as a recipient of this :. levels: the bishops and the prestigious Wats~n f~llo~s?ip. J .. Christian .Base. Communities Anyone from Umon Is ehgt~le 1 .. (CEB's). The bts~ops are tbe to apply. The Watson selection I. source of the mteHectu.al committee whose chairman is · movement in Brazil.and ind ude Professor Klein selects four ·Cardinal Arns and Pedro finalists to represent Union. Casadaliga. The CEBs al'e The National Office in educational and social Providence, Rhode Island organizations designed to reviews and interviews approximately 220 students nationwide. Out of these 220 students~ se'Vefity..:five are selected. Each recipient receives $13,000 for their year abroad. · Doug's main interest is to discover why there is no liberation theology in South Africa. Liberation theology can be roughly defined as Marxist Catholicism. To accomplish . . · this, he willcompare liberation Seventy•.five students nation-wide are selected to receive Watson Fellowships. Each recipient receives $13,000 for their year abroad. theology in Brazil to black religious movements in South Africa focusing on the role that reiigion plays in political revolutions/movements. He chose Brazil and South Africa as the countries for his .proposed project for several reasons. Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world and in his opinion the most 'Doug's main interest i:S to discover why there is.. no liberation theolog:v in ~South Africa. spread the faith. The CEB~ ft. Brazil are unique in the resp.ect · that they are not repressed a:s · others are throughout La1i11 America. Doug wants to find out the role that they play im society. During his six months in Brazil, he hopes to travel t() Rio de Janeiro, Recife, Brasilia, and Manaus. In January, Doug will leav-e for Capetown in South Africa. He plans to write to Desmo-nd Tutu with the hope of meeting him. He would also like to meet with Reverend Alla11 Boesak, a leading churd1 activist in the fight agaiost . apartheid and Denis Worrall, head of the independent liberal party also against apartheicl. Doug would like to find 011t the role that the South Africw church (black), Anglican ()r 'native' grass roots, plays. i:n apartheid. He plans to travel to Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The new Freshman Preceptorial Readir~g List? ,.) .• I i'

ollege 1877 Vol. CXVIII, No. 18 Schenectady, New York Union Goes To D.C. Students, Faculty And Alumni March On Washington and By SUSAN D. SHAFFER R. REED WIDDDEN Editors-in-Chief Four Greyhound buses left from the Schenectady Planned Parenthood Saturday night to students were also at the march demonstrating on behalf of their children's future. Many other colleages were represented at the march as well. Students came from such colleges and universities as Harvard, St Lawrence, Brown, 1 (' < ....•. ~ : . ' ~? \.'\' The march, spurred by the re- examination of the 1973 Roe v. Wade decision to give women the right to an abortion, saw as many as 600,000 people. Although officials released a number approximating 300,000, the count by National Abortion Rights Action League taken from the sign-in lists was double that amount. ~· Many celebrities showed $ their support at the event by 1i5 leading off the march and c:i speaking in favor of the right ~ to choose. Morgan Fairchild, ~· Whoopie Goldberg, Valerie 1:e· Harper, Kelly McGillis, o Leonard Nimoy, and Phil Is :t: Donahue were among the 40 or a. so stars at the march. Veronica Gloria Steinem asks \Is the Supreme Court going to affirm us as Hamil stated, \My civil rights free citizens and not property?\ at the National March for Women's are in jeopardy. Privacy and Equality, Women's Lives. Her speech is being signed to the crowd freedom __ that's what it's all as facilitators, press and honored guests surround the rally platform. about.\ She also stated that she is proud to be an American and take approximately 200 people Albany, University of Miami, that \the opposition is un- to march on Washington, DC University of North Carolina, American.\ Melanie Mayron of for their rights to freedom of and many more. People came Thirtysomething choice. from as far away as Alaska and commented that, \It is Included on the buses were 1 California, and Maine, New absolutely important to know not only people from the city Hampshire, and Vermont. At how people feel -- abortion is of Schenectady, but also both the rally an MIT student spoke not the issue. The issue is who Skidmore and Union students. in behalf of all college students chooses.\ Approximately 17 students and present. She remarked that this The march had a flavor of the faculty from Union decided to year has marked the turning sixties as Judy Collins sang take a stand this weekend in point from that of apathy to \Amazing Grace,\ and Peter, Washington. There were as action within the colleges and Paul, and Mary sang \If I Had a well some Alumni from the she added that feminism is no Hammer.\ College at the march. Amongst longer a dirty word on Billye Avery of the National them were DanielS. Papernik, campuses. Continued on page 4 class of 1958 and a former Editor-in-Chief of Concordiensis, who was pleased to see a constituency from Union. Parents of College Suspends Student For Pulling Fire Alarms By ELISE FOODY News Editor This past Sunday morning, a student was caught pulling the fire alarms in both Fox and Davidson dormitories at the respective times of 4:07 a.m. and 4:26 a.m. As a result of his actions he has been suspended from the College. The student, who admitted his guilt, had the choice of having the charge heard either by the Subcouncil on Student Conduct or by an administrative review board. The latter of the two is composed of nine students and an adviser who is usually the assistant dean of students. The administrative review board consists mainly of the assistant dean of students who acts as the principal investigator and makes the corresponding recommendations to the dean of students. In this case, the student chose to have his case heard by an administrative review board. Tuesday of this week, after reviewing the incident, the board handed the student a suspension ruling. Dean Alford, Assistant Dean of Students, described the situation as a case of \total and blatant disregard for flre safety and rights and privileges of others.\ This partie ular decision comes in the wake of the College's efforts to crack down on student misconduct. Last ·fall two students, who were also found guilty of pulling fire alarms, suffered a $100 fme and suspension from all campus residence halls. April 13, 1989 Pierce Recipient Of $13,000 For Watson Fellowship By JENNIFER HOLMES important Latin American country. South Africa is the only developed African country. It is also the most powerful country possessing like Brazil the most resources and the most industry. \The Thomas J. Watson Foundation in 1968 inaugurated a fellowship program which enables college graduates of unusual promise to engage in a year of , independent study and travel abroad following graduation.\ This year Douglas Pierce was chosen as a recipient of this prestigious Watson fellowship. Anyone from Union is eligible to apply. The Watson selection committee whose chairman is Professor Klein selects four finalists to represent Union. The National Office in Providence, Rhode Island reviews and interviews approximately 220 students nationwide. Out of these 220 students, seventy-five are selected. Each recipient receives $13,000 for their year abroad. Doug will leave in July for Sao Paulo, Brazil in hopes of : . meeting with leading liberation theologists consi:.ting of two levels: the bishops and the Christian Base Communities ' Doug's main interest is to discover why there is no liberation theology in South Africa. Liberation theology can be roughly defined as Marxist Catholicism. To accomplish this, he will compare liberation Seventy-five students nation-wide are selected to receive Watson Fellowships. Each recipient receives $13,000 for their year abroad. theology in Brazil to black religious movements in South Africa focusing on the role that religion plays in political revolutions/movements. He chose Brazil and South Africa as the countries for his proposed project for several reasons. Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world and in his opinion the most i · (CEB's). The bishops are the . source of the intellectual ' movement in Brazil and include · Cardinal Arns and Pedro Casadaliga. The CEBs are educational and social organizations designed to Doug's main interest is to discover why there is . no liberation theology in :South Africa. spread the faith. The CEBs i1. Brazil are unique in the respect · that they are not repressed as others are throughout Latin America. Doug wants to find out the role that they play in society. During his six months in Brazil, he hopes to travel to Rio de Janeiro, Recife, Brasilia, and Manaus. In January. Doug will leave for Capetown in South Africa. He plans to write to Desmond Tutu with the hope of meeting him. He would also like to meet with Reverend Allan Boesak, a leading church activist in the fight against apartheid and Denis Worrall, head of the independent liberal party also against apartheid. Doug would like to find out the role that the South African church (black). Anglican or 'native' grass roots, plays in apartheid. He plans to travel to Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The new Freshman Preceptorial Reading List? 0 ..... 0 I Q. ~ u::

• Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS .April 13, 1989 (!tnncnrbfensis NEWS ANALYSIS By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. The horror of what happened to 'the peopie aboard flight 103 is indeed a tragedy of the highest nature. It should have never b.appened, as with every other terrorist act While it is difficult· to console or exphtin the how and why of the event to all people, especially those closest to the victims., the recent reactions to the incident have been directed in a misg~.~ided manner. The recent vigil '103 Days. After• (the accident) held in a large part by the protest~a-week groups has focused their attack on Washi:ngton, D.C., demanding explanations of 'why they weren't told' of the U.S .. NEWS Assoc IATtorJ ff<'ESS. bi::SK By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager As many of you readers know,. the topic of abortion is once again in the spotlight. The recent conservative swing in the Supreme Court has prompted right to lifers to fear that the 19'13 Roe vs. Wade decision will be overturned. The Jlr()-choice advocates sent a clear message to the Court by having approximately 300,000 people march in the maU in Washington last weekend. U.S. Policy Is 103 Days Too Late bomb threats which were in fact made prior to the plane's takeoff. These groups went further to ask wlw 'nothing' has been done since to prevent a future attack on civilians (i.e. increased airport security). These outbursts are understandable, for obvious reasons. but in truth those who point the finger are doing so in the wrong direction. The international airline industry receives hundreds of threats a week, and how to deal with them is a difficult question. Nearly all the threats go unfounded, and the industry does everything in its power to prevent any possible catastrophe: Unfortunately, we live in an age where one's best is not enough. Despite known assumption of risk, we look to ourselves for solutions. whle terrorists prepare their next strike. Airlines do need better · ·security measures. bu~ in the meantime how we react to the recurring incidents is. a matter of p.olicy making. Tne United States is the ultimate free country, and we believe that part of that freedom includes being able to travel in a mad world with safety. There is a simple way to counter terrorists, and that is to·strike back. The United States possesses the power and authority to punish all terrorists, and should do so with extreme prejudice. Our intelligence corps are the world's best, and should be Weakening Press Coverage Focuses On The Small Issues Needless to say, the national news service is having a field day with reports on every aspect cf the march. But, they are missing the big picture. The main focus should not be on the overturning of the case Roe vs~ Wade, and with it the right to an abortion, rather, the news should 'focus on the neglected issue of what Reagan did to the Supreme Court while everyone stood by and said nothing. Of course the press focused on the Bork nomination, but when it came to the nomination of Kennedy, which made the conservative shift complete, the press stood ·by and watched. Reagan had transformed the Court while the ptess did nothing. O'Conner, Scalia and Kennedy were the means to the end .of civil rights for minorities and for women. Therefore, what is there to look forward to in the Supreme Collegiate Tim~s What The Salman Rushdie Affair Teaches: Study The West By MICHAEL NOVAK Anterican Enterprise Institute Salman Rushdie. that hypocritical anti-Westerner and trendy leftist, has taught us a number of important lessons. The C()ntroversy over his book, The Satanic Verses, has also illustrated, with great clarity, what is at stake in the debate over Western Civilization courses. at many leading universities. Now we know that our literary establishment believes in absolutes. At least in one absolute. Socialist journalist Christ()pher Hitchens intones the Western creed: \the absolute right of free expression and free inquiry.\. If not absolute,. self-evident this truth may be to us and to our literary establishment. Lt appears not to be self-evident to the Ayatollah Khomeini, or to millions of Moslems. Most places on earth, in factj do not believe in the absolute right of free expression and free inquir~y. In historical perspective, the idea is a relatively new one. The Ayatoltah is quite Fight: It is a Western idea. And so, maybe the world does need the West, after all. Certainly Mr. Rushdie does and so do othef writers and · thinkers. Which makes it so O!fd that so many writers and professors have for years preferred Third Worldism to the West. One writer called the . white race \tlle cancer of\the human race.\ Others say the West should not \impose\ its values on the Third .World. But now, thanks to Mr. Rushdie, Western writers do want to impOse their vatues on the Third World. Western culture is a tiny minority in a sea of cultures with shockingly different values. If we insist our values are superior, we must offer good reasons. Does the Ayatollah understand why there is a right to free expression and free inquiry? Does he know how such rights came to recognition and were institutionally secured? To understand, one ~ to read the · implemented for a war 'On terrorism. This should not be a policy 'war' {like Johnson's 'war' on poverty) :but a real one involving mi:litary intervention. The ilttell igence/military team could effectively locate and terminate au terrorist operations. When a terrorist bi~s a target. all known terrorists should be punished, without consideratjon of guilt. This would send a message t() all terrorists that we will never tolerate it. Hit them quickly, hard, often, and 1nost important, inclusively_ this approach· may appear barbaric, · but it without question dealS With barbarians in their own language. One only 'has to look at the recent Itan/ITaq war to realize that tel'l'orist nations will nearly annihilate each other before considering alternatives- in p~ce. It is the only solution for lasting American security abro~d. And what of the Soviet stance? If Glasnost is what they truly desire~ then they should be agreeable. The 60's leftovers .and 80's wanna-be's should point the fmgerat .the enem'y and demand justic.e. Blaming ourselves fer · lack of' security is, in effect, justifying tbe existence of terrorists i:n the first ,place. If we' do not change this weak stance, the coun1lry wbich defends freedom will oo reduced to one which makes concessions . to the wrong; It must post warning signs in airports reminiscent of those , used on ocea.n liners during tJie . Wilson administration, when our passsenger ships wyre · being sunk on the high seas. ' Americans should be proud · of their freedom and take pride in tbe fact that they are safe all over ·the globe. Instead, .protestors want to know how to protect themselves from these sub-humans which humiliate ·our countt:Y on a regular basis. The strike-back .solution will not only .work, but if used initially in excess, it could eliminate terrorism as an option for good. If I we~;e to go down in a plane struck by a terrorist bomb, I· would hope my country reacted with action, not alternatives for next time. Otherwise, victims. of terorists are in reality wasted lives. Cou~ and the press? Looking the Cogrt will try to e;verturn at the coverage ofthe rally last Brown vs. Board of Education, weekend, it seems that' the which outlawed segregation; J}ress is interested in reporting . These infringements can be the small issues of each · stopped if the press · takes a individual case. The New York. more active role in. criticizing Times did not focus on the issue of why the demonstrators were marching (the conservative .Court), but only on the smaller issue of abortion. In the future,. the Court will become even more radically conservative. Bush should be able to appoint at least one and maybe two Justices to the Supreme Court. It should seem that the appointees will not differ greatly from the nominations of Reagan with· regards to issues. Abortion will be overturned, ifnot this year then in two years. Affirmative. Action, which has started to be over turned in a piecemeal fashion will probably be repealed altogether. As well, Western books (from Milton, .Locke, Mill and· Madison to Vatican II) that argued for, defined and explained those rights and know the histories of the long and arduous struggles. that have secured them in so few places on earth. This presents a problem. Since many of our universities are not even imposing these Western classics on their own students, it may seem odd to want to impose them on grown men and women· not of the West. But Salman Rushdie may have changed this. After building a high reputation in London by excoriating the West in book after book, Mt. Rushdie has. shown us why the universities should require all students to study more carefully .the classic books of the West. And by contrast the literature of Islamic, African, Asian and other cultures. It is ·not enough to learn . about the precious values that Of course the press focused on the Bork nomination, but when it came to the nomination of Kennedy, which made tlte conservative shift complt~te, the press stood by and watched. the reasons behind the arising issues. Reagan has successfully Chaqged the Court for a long time into the future. With Bush in. the White House it is sure to stay- changed for an even longer tiine. lt _is up ·to the press to inform the populace of these atrocities that are waiting to happen in the near future. some Westerners forget when speaking ill of the West. It is necessary to learn why other cultures .do not share these values. Salman Rushdie has taught us that, on some crucial matters, ·cultures are not equal. On some matters and in certain dimensions, some cultures are better than others. Those that protect free. inquiry and free expression .are better, for ·example, on that point, than others. It is all well and good to talk about \one world,\ \interdependence.\ and \cross- cultural interchange.;' But if all this rioble talk is to be conducted uncritica1ly, without attention to particular values (and to the classic arguments that vindicate them), it is only baby~ · .Some differences are. worth dying for.' Free inquiry is one such. Free . expression· is another. Wprld Wat II was Continued on page 4

Watson Fellow To Study Religious Movements In Br,azil And South Afric'a,_ Continued from p;;~ge 1 different locations- within South Africa sucb as Port Eliza·beth, Durban, JohannesbU,rg. Pretoria aQ(J. Bloen Fontein tQ see 'how situations differ in each area~. Doug criticizes Union College \for not having courses dealing with South Africa\ and extends. this criticism toward students \for not demanding them. For those ~tudying foreign pOlicy', we study Europe and Latin America but we rarely look at Africa at all. At the sam~ time, we get an incredibie amount of strategic materials from South Mrica that is indispensable to Olll' defense.\ DQug owes lill)ch Of.his success to Teresa Meade and Seyfollah Maleki, and extends his gratitu4e to both of them .. '\GE1.YOUR . _.·:_,_:HA.NDS 0- ____ .- CONC ·.·.• - ENS~IS . . Secu.rity Location CON.CORDIE!(.$1S April Hilary Tann: Union ·College's Resident Composer :Oy ADAM G:UNZBERG Tann's pieces are either written for a commission or upon On April 4, in .the Nott request for a specific Memorial Theater, Albany · instrument. ;'Lief', translated composer and vocalist J uli~ · from Welsh as a cry from the Kabat performed \Women and · heart and \as ferns\ are two Myth\ .an improvisatonal - pieces composed by Tann. concert .. Included was a piec~ Another piece \Winter sun. \Arachne\,coniposedbyHilary . Summer rain,\ a quintet, was Tann an.«J written by Jordan ·. commissioned by the Welsh Smith, two professors here at ·• Arts Commission and Union·. The verfoJ!mattce was performed in 1986. well attendect \Windhover\; written .for Welsh. composer Hilary Tann . soprano saxophone was 'is cu:.-rently an Associate . performed in Heidelberg, professor ,of Music at Union. • .. Germany at _the Sixth She is on tb.e Executive Board · International Congress on of tbe International League of .•. Women in Music iri 1988. A Wom~n Composers. On a trlp ·. windhover is a hawk that is . to Japan in 1988, she bifocal. This aerial creat~re performed on the shalruhachi, a • gliding jn an endless sky is vertical bamboo flute with her : contrasted with the hawk's teacher~ An interest in the ability to focus on a ~ingle music of Japan has led her to . blade of grass. co-edit a symposium of articles ------------ in .Pers.pe~dves of New M usl4! titled \Tradition and Renewal _ in the Music of Japan\ which will appear this summer .. Hilary's first priori~y is .teaehing, while comp<>sing is secondary. She finds it hard to write dog the busy trimester with student .pieces in her mind, S().She $tores images and fragments in her mind until' the long winter and summer vacations. Prof. Tann 's compositions b@ve a central theme of nature and its metamorphoses. Her ideas come from the flowing hills of Wales. Hilary aims to write clear, uncluttered lines and incoi-porates tonality into her p!eces. Many of her works have been performed in festivals and conference~· ~hroughout. the USA, Australia, Wales, · _Ireland, and Germany. Hilary lncide:nts: · Since there are few . female composers, it was • an bonor for Tann to receive this competitive, funded commission. \Amchne\, for soprano voice and movement, was Prof. Tann's first commission from the New York State Council of the Arts Individual Artists Program. Since there are few female composers, it was. an honor for Tann to recieve this competi ti \e\\'_ ~frinde4. commission. \Arachne\ is the myth developed in Ovid's Metamorphoses, Book VI, lines 0~145. Arachne, a mortal, boasts that her skill as a weaver is greater than that of Athene, the divine patron of her craft who was Arachne's teacher. Following the confrontation in a weaving contest, Athene transforms Arachne into a spider. Page 3 Eric Retzlaff replaces Brin Quell as Union's Director of Press Relations. Union Appoints New Director Of Press Relations By ELISE FOOD Y News Editor While most of the College • community was knee-deep in • preparations for fmal exams on · March 13, Eric 'Retzlaff was just beginning ll~s first day of · work. Retzlaff had recently been named the College's Director of Press Relations. an office previously held by Brio Quell. Retzlaff, a Rotterdam resident, has recently worked for several area newspapers including The Recorder, Capital District Business . R. e v i e w , and T h e Schenectady G~zette. At Union, Retzlaff works with both the local and national press and isalso editor of the Chronicle and For · the Record. He is currently · in the process of meeting with members of Union's various ac~demic departments and is impressed with the strides the · college is making in research, . and with it's publications. Retzlaff believes that · interacting with college ., professors and becoming. aware of their achievements wi:ll . r enable him to publicize these . accomplishmentS. He cites the possibility of publicizing in the professor's hometown where Union may not gain a · · large portion of its student · population. just a bunch of buildings.\ Retzlaff is not h.esitant to admit that be comes to his new job with several advantages. He has lived in this area all of his life and has worked for almost every daily newspaper here. This :has enabled him to meet people in numerous fields including local government. His contacts with these people are certainly an asset for Union. When there is an aspect of Union that should be promoted, Retzlaff, because of his previous media experience, can see exactly what should be highlighted and which sources of the public media would be most interested in the particular piece of infonnation .. Retzlaff enjoys working in an intellectual environment because while he is doing his job he is also learning a bit of the coursework. Retzlaff considers this, too, an advantage for him because it will aid him in writing press releases and conducting general publicity activities. Retzlaff aims to make the college better known throughout the country by using the national media as frequently as possible. He believes that doing this wm draw students to the college from outside the northeastern United States where most of the school's population currently comes from. . Retzlaff realizes that the j<>b D~te Time 4/3 1:46am Delta Chi Fraternity Incident Vandalism, broken window Recently, Hilary Tann received her second commission from tbe NYSCA to write a piece for the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra to be performed on April 22, 1990. \The Open Field\ will feature trumpets interspersed among the string section. Retzlaff is also interested in building links between people at the college and rnemers of the local community. He · is challenging, but looks forward to meeting this challenge and to keeping the Union community well- publicized. 4/3 2:2'9am West lie 4/3 8:14am Whitaker House 4/3 5:54 pltl Webster House- 4/3 8.:45 pm Hickokouse 4/3 8:59pm Webster House 414 9:20pm Chi Psi Fraternity 4/9 2:52am Richmond House 4/9 12:00pm Psi Upsilon 4/9 12:08 pm Schaffer Library area 4/9 10:30 pm Smith House· Vandalism, dam. to eJ<t. door Vandalism, broken window Vandalism; dam. to ext. door Vandalism, dam. to ext. door Vandalism; dam. to courtesy phone outside ,bf bldg. Vandalism, dam. to ext. door Theft of item reported .from student room. item rellJrned Taken as a practical joke. Student reports theft of stereo from room. Suspibious person attempting to sell leather coats. Vandallsi'TI. broken look on exterior door. \ . asserts that .good public relations is to \let people know us and realize that we 1 re not SU~R/PART~EJOBS • The College New Rochelle, located in New Rochelle. NY, has openings for their Pre-Med Healthcare Extern ship for the summer of 19g9. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRll.. 15. • Griffiss Air Force Base in NY has 5 positions open for an Engineering Technician. Applicants must have completed their sophomore year by Spring 1989. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 15. • Arden Group Publications has positions open :for an Advertising Sales Representative. Located in NY. Applications accepted on a first come, fJ.rst serve basis. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 30. • Tempforce, located in Albany, is looking for people to fill a variety of jobs, now and for the summer. • Camp Wohelo, located in Maine, has a variety of positions open for their summer. staff. • The Association of MBA Executives, Inc., is hiring part time students interested in working as a Campus Representative. Good for students who need flexible schedules. INTERNSHIPS ... •· • • • Summer housing for students with internships and summer jobs in the New York City area is being offered by Columbia University. Cal1212-&54-4962 for more information. .The U.S. Information Agency is accepting_ student volunteers with background in Joumalism, International Rela_tions, Computer Science, Television and Film, Political Science, Area Studies or Business Administration. All internships are located in the US. Internships in Francophone Europe offers American college students the opportunity to work side by side with the men and wom~n who create public policy in French speaking 'Europe. ·The Jacksina Company, a busy public relations finn in the entertairunent industry, is willing to undertake students interested in internships with an interest in learning the inside workings of a staff members' chosen field. ; .,,

Page 4 CO.NCORDIENSIS A_pr~l 13, 1989 . ' Rushdie Worthy Of Protection, Not Respect· Continued from page 2 fought to prevent a thousand- th.at the mind by its nature year Reicll from banishing seeks the truth; it can be . both. The long, gray war · · tntsted, even though it often literary dream) the founder of . their religion,. he does not win ourrespect · He is free. to write w.hat he ·believes. But we are also ftee· : against communism has had a : · errs, is c;Jistracted, pr is pulled · : simrlar purpose. aside by passion .and bigotry. Already many Moslems have • Given more stimulation, it is · to withhold .from him our respect. Free expr~ssion invites freely given disappointment. . Protect him, yes; respect for what he ·wrote~ no. : • • (i_i' ~ •. expressed shame at the · • more likely to sail straight as 1 ~ ? · . /· 1 : ; Ayatollah's murderous threats. ~arrow. .. .... ! ' ' .,, ' . . .-~\'...::. ... ·~: .. · :t-)7 tw·: Powerful reasons- exist for. Th~ reason for . free \We will decide our fate, not the church, not the :state.\ respecting free inquiry and free expression and free inquiry is March ·For Women's Equality, Women '.s Rights expression, and most of the . so that refl:ecti0n and choice world is coming to realize may be practiced in ru$· wide a ~them. Glasnost itself bows to · field as possibl~~ and so- that them. truth may be singled out Not all of us in the West are secular. Inde~d. in America •. Continued from page 1 The crowd was c10rnposed of Black Women's. HeaLth Pmject · people carrying SQCh banners also spoke. She mentioned the · that read, \1'm not an 4,400 crosses that· r.igbt-to- .. incubator,'' \.E-very child a lifers had put up the night wanted child\ and ··u abortion before to represent the number • becomes illegal,. then mass of abortions that· took place vasectomies wil11Je required.\ after its .legalization in 1973. Some people c.anied hangers Here in America, our framers amidst - ·error. B:~t truth~ conceived of an eXcperiment in reflection and choice are to be \ordered liberty,'' a liberty . served in a spirit of respect. confirmed in law and self- And that is the final lesson control, and guided by that Salman R:usMie teaches temperance, justice, courage. us .. Yes, he ·had a right to free and wisdom. The fantasy that a expression. and free inquiry~- at republic·could survive without . least, among us he had· that such virtues, James Madison right. But f9r causing pain and said, is \chimerical.\ embarrassment to millions. of The reason we believe in free his fellow Moslems, for the inquiry and free expression is · outra~e of mocking {even in a · mo$t of us are tel~gious-L and . . respectful of other' religions besides ourown. · •'Distrib-ntecJ.'· by ·the Collegiate Network ' Write For NEWS Call Elise x4410 , · or Jay. ·x4153 ; She stated that 'we live ,;in a · with the words ''f0r dothes, self-determination. Gloria nation that a-llows hungry, ·. not women\ written on them, · Steinem asked the question \Is where life ends with tilth, · The chant \You aren't pro-fife, _. the Supreme Court going to where people are Struggling, you lie, you dcn't ·care if • affirm ·us as free ·Citizens and wheFe t~ere is little prenatal . women die\ was h.eard as the · not property?\ and : then care, where 1,000 black babies crowd passed right-to-life remarked that \It is the die every year but there are no demonstrators, cf which there • Supreme Court that is on trial, crosses for them. We deserve were relatively few. • not reproductive .freedom.\ more than this.\ The crowd marched on to · All were urged to stay over \The people who dictate our Capital HilL Spe:al<ers on the . for the National Lobby Day on wombs, dictate our homes\ steps of the capii.tal included Abortion Rights in order to said Susan Sarendon who Jesse Jackson, Cybil Shepherd, · talk with their Senators and parallelled the government's Gloria Steinem_ Je~se Jackson . Members of Congress. It is invasion of our bodies t() the preached that this was a \non- hoped that with the turnout on government's invasion rn debatable, n0on-11egotiable\ Sunday in Washington officials Central America, both of issue that worneiJ as. ~hole • will not deny the weightiness which ruin women and human beings iles.erve whole of the opinion of 600,000 children's lives. freedom for self-respect and people. \Dean\ Of White House Corps To Speak at Russell Sage Troy, New York -- White House bureau chief for United Press International (UPI), Helen Thomas, who has reported the activities of every president since John F. Kennedy, will be the guest speaker at Russell Sage College's Senior Convocation on Monday, April24. She will speak on \insert title.\ The lecture will be held at 12:40 p.m. in the Schaci;J.t Fine Arts Center, off First Street, on the Russell Sage Troy Campus. The program is free and open to the public. Helen Thomas, a native of Winchester, Kentucky, began her career in journalism in 1942 as a reporter for the Daily News in Washington, D.C. In 1943, she -joined the UPI Washington biuea:u as a radio writer and in 1956, transferred to UPI's national staff. Prior to covering the White House, Thomas covered the Justice Department and tile Department of Health, Education and · Welfare. Her career at lJPI has taken her on . many lltstoric trips including: Nixo11•s trip to China and the Soviet Union; Kissinger's mis:sions to the Middle East a11d China; Ford's visit to Beijing;_; ~ter's Camp David meetings; and Reagan's trip to England. She covered also Gorbachev's.1987 visit to the United States. Thomas is a \WCrnan of many firsts. She is tlle first woman . to oversee presi_{Jeruial coverage at a major news service and is Monday's meeting of the Academic Affairs Council proved to be a success for the proposed class schedule. The new system, which is an alter- native to the current Gel time schedule was approved by a vote of 8 .. 3. The proposal will now move on to a vote by members ofthe faculty and the .. administration for fuTther ' . discussior1 and final approval. th¥ first wo.man to be elected president of the White House Correspondents Association. Thomas was the first woman elected into the Gridiron Club, formed in 1885 by WashingtQn newspaper journalists, which previously admitted only men. Thotrlas has received the · Distinguished Achi~vement Award f()t newspaper journalism from the Journalism Alumni . Association of 'the University of Southern California. She is a regular contributor to \Backstairs at the White House,\ and is the author of Dateline: White House, a oook about her experiences covering Presidents Kennedy through Ford .. Attention AI ,I_, Students. • Order your 1 B89 yearbook NOW. Purchase in Student Activities .Office 4th Floor College C~nter • Garnet .. •· Week 3 4 5' 6 7 8 9 . . . \. . . . . Stu·d.ent Forum \'On The Road•' . . . \,_ Date 4/13 4/20 4/27 5/4 5/11 5/18 5/25 Vol. II Place s:IJT Atrium Flagpole Phi Sig couege Center Jackson's · Gardens - · Reception Topic Camp U!llon Honor Code Elections Meal Plan C!osed Env·i~on~ mental Issues * Notice the changes in weeks 3 and 4 .from previous scliedule. The Philosophy Department is currently conducting a Reappointm:ent Review of Assistant Professor Felmon J. Davis . M~mbers of the community who would like to comment on Professor Davis's teaching, scholarly activities, or college service may respond in writing to, or arrange an appointment with, Professors Robert Baker, Jan Ludwig, or Linda Patrik at the Philosophy Department, Humanities Building, telephone extension 6376. APPLY FOR ORIENTATION ' -ADVISOR! Applications in· Dean of Students Office . Third Floor _ College Ce~ter · .. Deadline April 14 ..

', • · ..... J' . _j· ~-· ' ~ . . co . . ,-.~· ·v z. - ' ' . ·',.., .a:··. . 0-:. '(f} a: .0 - ·.z.· w (j) / CONCORD18NSIS .April 13, 1989 Page 5 ' $12.50 ·~. GOOD FO·OD, EXCELTENF MUSIC, ... · ...... ·:. ) \ . HOT DANCING - ' . .J/1 .• , .• , ' \?'\\' ' . I' ~/...... \·~ -...... ;c , 'l . ·1 .. Dinner . Friday Evenings THE BEST COMPANY . Open to ALL Students DRESS TO IMPRESS!!! This week the Jewish · , Student Union will be ·hosting students from . BUY TICKETS ·S.QON!!! SUNY Albany, Russell Sage & RPI at the Kosher Kitchen. APRIL 28 @ RAMADA INN Services and dinner begin at 6:00 STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS . TAKE NOTICE, . UNION STUDENTS President V.P. For Administration V.P .. For _Finance Senior Representatives to Alumni C-ouncil V.P. for Academic Affairs Junior Trustee Sophmore, Junior, Senior Class Representatives PETITIONS AVAILABLE APRIL 28 - . ·1n the student activities Office 4th Floor College Center \The Student. Forum is . . .responslbJe for promoting the student body of Union College[. The elected officials administer the student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and through student membership on College committees, advise the College Ad.m,inistration of issues pertaining to the student body B\ ' ' . ), 1 1 j. t I i . I ' I l • l \ l

Page 6 CONCOR.DIENSIS April 13, .1989 ·FEATURES The Health and Fitness Column By JACQUELINE RANDALL Many college students are getting involved in fitness walking to keep in shape. Walking eM be done by almost anyone at .any age or almost any physical condition. Walking is a popular activity because it does not require any special facilities or equipment, other than a good pair of shoes. In addition, it can be a form of uninterrupted exercise that is needed by an individual to reach and maintain a maximum heart rate. It can also increase the amount of oxygen to the muscles and the heart, thereby building cardiovascular filness. In addition to cardiovascular benefits. walking assists in weight control. When we walk, we burn off calories and raise our me.tabolic rates. Physical .activity often reduces our appetite and increases our motivation to remain health conscious. Calories burned by walking and jogging are approximately the same. A slow one mile walk bums about 100 calories. From Glamour Girl to Child World: 9 Great Secrets To Success By R. REED WHIDDEN In 1972 one of th.e first few females to graduate from Union College won a spot in Glamour Magazine's \Top Ten College Women\ contest. That woman, Kate White; returned to the college last Thursday to talk about her life since then and keys to her success. Ms. White graduated with a degree ·in English and after working at G I a m o u r , Family Weekly, and Mademoiselle, she pre- sently holds the position of Editor of Child magazine. While employed at Glamour, Ms. White made her first plunge into magazine writin_g through the \How to do Anything Better Guide.\ Her first piece for the column was \Bridesmaids Dresses You Will Wear Again.\ After this piece, other opportunities followed for her. She moved on to Mademoiselle where she was Executive ,Editor and then worked her way over to the position of Senior Editor at Family Weekly. Last year, with the· addition of a son to her own family, she became Editor of Child magazine. In her talk, titled \Getting What You Want: How to Survive and Thrive in the Working World,\ Ms. White offered nine \get ahead\ prinC<iples. These principles are · a kind of strategy she suggests is perhaps conducive to success. THE NINE \GET AHEADt' PRINCIPLES -Be as clear as you can about your goals. Focus on the direction of your career, otherwise you may ~ind yourself left behind. -Ask: for the business. If you want the job badly enough, you s.hould ask for it-- demonstrate assertiveness. -Get organized. -Learn to package your ideas. Present them clearly and ·concisely. -Learn to package yourself. -Keep in mind the needs ·Of those to whpm you go. Know UPCOMING BLOODMOBILES FOR 3 DAYS AT UNION COLLEGE Please DATE: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1989 SITE: DAVIDSON LOUNGE AT DAVIDSON HOUSE HOURS: 11:30 Am to 5:30 PM Sponsored by Gamma Phi Beta · For Appointment call: Lauren Karp, 386-4237 DATE: THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1989 SITE: DAVIDSON . LOUNGE AT DAVIDSON HOUSE HOURS: 11:30 AM to 5:30 PM Sponsored by Theta Delta Chi For Appointment call: Peter Costa, 386-4108 DATE: FRIDAY, APRIL 21, 1989 SITE: DAVIDSON LOUNGE HOUSE AT DAVIDSON HOUSE HOURS: 11:30 AM to 5:30 PM Sponsored by Phi Sigma Kappa :For Appointment caU: Craig Gootman, 370-69$3 Call Contact Person for Appointment: Als(), Sign-Up Sheets will be Available in College Center Student Activities Room 408. Running the same distanc.e bums about 120 calories. A moderate walking pace of 4 · m.p·.h. burns about 5 calories per minute or 300 calories per hour. Walking places tittle demand on our bodies, Yet, it yields the same aerobic benefits as other aerobic exercises provided that we walk for a longer time eacn session than we would if we jog .. Walking helps the functions ·Of the body. It firms and tones the muscles and helps to improve circulation. H sttengthens out calves, thighs, ankles, feet, stomach, hips and buttocks. By swinging our arms while walking, we tone and strengthen our shoulders, upper back, chest and arm muscles. · There. are \ery few risks of injuries of the joints, ankles, knees. hips, and spine from walking. Properly done, walking call give all the advantages of jogging, biking and swimming without the injury problems related to those exercises. Walking can be -more beneficial ,than jogging beoause it is safer for our bodies. When we walk we don't pound our feet and legs on the ground with as much force. as we do · when we run. Walking is also safer for our knees than jogging. how you can serve them. -Give yoruself lots of time off from the working environment. Free time often produces insightful ideas. -Plan adventures. Sometimes a reckless way of acting may lead to th.e same sort of thiflking-- refreshing new ideas. -Give your crazy side room to grow. Going out on a limb may g~t you places. Ms. White is a success story in her own right. Graduating from this college when the ratio of me11 to women was 16 to 1, she has proved to be o11e who certainly has surVived and thrived in the worJcing world. Looking back on Union 11ow she is glad to have had the luxury to think and read and not to have been in a career oriented regimen. She made her career herself and is an inspiration to women heading into any career choice. ... _ ... Walking, as a fatm. of exercise. also can relieve tension and in<>rease mental alertness. lt allows us to get away and escape from out worries and school pressure, It can change <>ur moods for the better · by ret-easing endomorphin hormones. Another advantage of walking is that we can converse with friends while participating in this activity. Or, we can put otu wal1cman on and ''space out\ ·by ourselves. When we walk, we can enjoy tl\e fresh air and the warm sunlight atld at the same time clear our mind$. It is important to drink plenty of liquids befOfe and after walking, Wear comfortable· Clothing and supportive sboes. In addition, eat a lig!It meal before exercising consisting of ~complex carbohydrates. To make your walk more challenging,. try bill walking . and speed walking and carrying weights. · · Fitness walking · can help everyone's health. It .assists us in losing weight. firming muscles, .easing -stress,. reducing .heart problems, getting in shape. lowering blood pressure .. and feeling great. So .•. improve your health by wa11dng. It can easily be made a pwt of your daily routine. Please direct your questions and comments to Box 1993. MANDATORY ' \ . PH.OTO ··cLue· MEETING .7:30 CG RM 203 COME' JOIN US! Circ[e 1( Crew Tuesday night at 7:00 2nd Floor College Center We welcome new faces and new ideas for ({)Ur Community Service and Leadership Organization!!.

CONCORDlENSIS April 13, 1989. Page 7 FEAT'URES There Is L.ife After College By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Seniors, you don't need me to tell you that the G~word is just around the corner and before you know it the college vaouunt'that has swept you up and away from ·the .real wOl'ld far the past four years will let you loose in eight short weeks. Come June 11, you will never be uildergraduates. ag·~in, unless, of course, you plan to become a 5th, 6th, or 7th year senior. The thought of being out there oil yaur own is a scary one, bui by· preparing yourself for life after college the tough transition can be made smoother~. Susan Kleinman, author of Real Life 101, {Almost) Surviving Your First Y.ear Out or CoHeg,e has created. a practical, yet humorous guide to survival in the real world. The book is based on Ms. Kleinman's own experiences of the last three years • .since she has been out of college, as well as advice from experts in various fields including economics and nutrition, and a survey .of recent graduates .. Real Life 101. the college graduate survival bible covers all aspects of post-graduate life ranging. from advice on how to be assertive and ask for a raise to dealing with job-realated stress .. which is quite different from the stress experienced in college. Real Life 101 is not a how-to-succeed book. it does more than just provide advice on how to save money and find a decent apartment that .won't cost you your monthly salary, it is also filled with amusing, firsthand .experiences of recent college graduates who have found that they are not alone in suffering from the post-college shock .syndrome. The stories found in Kleinman's book show that it is sometimes necessary to simply la11gh off the serious side of life's new absurdities, and not let them get the better ofyou. · The. Class of 1988 may have been the last te use the all too familiar phrase, \If I only knew then what I know now.\ Read Real Life 101 before you step out of Never-Never Land and into This Is. It Land, it will put you one crucial step ahead of the rest. Ms. Kleinman's book will help you land feet first into the professional world instead of stumbling in on all fours. Real Life 101 discusses areas of \on your own living~' that will come to haunt soon~to-be graduates if they are neglected or .put·off for too long. Taxes,.- don't begjn ,preparing them the night of April 14th, the IRS will not accept late papers. Once you become fully employed, no longer a dependent of mom and dad, you too, must fill out pages and pages of silly forms and compute more numbers than are found on a Calculus 14 fmal exam. So you think college causes stress. Just wait until you hit the real world, college wiH seem like a mother's cradling arms. According to the questionnaires Ms. Kleinman received from recent college graduates; all but one respondent agreed that work was more stressful than .school. One way suggested .to relieve work-related stress is to :pretend the tennis ball you're hurling across the net is actually your boss's head. In the first chapter of Real Life 101 Kleinman suggests getting off to a good start at the office. Your boss, unlike yo\lf 74-year-old, senile college professor, will notice your attendance at the office. If you are not c.arefu1 1 he will probably also notice a romantic office fling. Romance between cO·'WOrkers is better left .out of the office. Office PDA is a faux pas, but getting to :know your compa·ny's corporate culture, \the rules, values, and symbols that underlie and determine how corp<Jrate decisions are made and how everyday life in a company is experienced,\ is very wise. The trick is to find time for a post-collegiate social life within a sixty hour work week. BARSONS C 0 N S 1'. C 0 _, .. DO NOT~-RECEIVE l BENEF OR I Kleinman stresses the importance of keeping in touch with those friends, near, dear and far from you, and at the same time making a concentrated effort to develop new relationships. Real Life 101 will hit the bookstores within the next week. Try to find some time to fit it into your grueling senior spring term. It will be worth it. From Bottle Openers to Swizzle Sticks Julie Kabat: Artist, Comedian, Musician, Poet All In One By DEBBIE BEAUDRY approach to art at the Noh theater in Japan. Explaining that Noh plays consist of a journey in which. a transformation takes place,. Ms. Kabat sang and danced behind a mask to the music of Mongolian sheepherders' chants. drums, and the sounds of whales. She urged the audience to think of the performance \as a dream spac.e,\ and to \allow the stream of consciousness t() take over.\ scarf, Julie Kabat portrayed realistically in song the three characters of the myth -- The Oracle, Athena and Arachne. . By OANAH RITTER Did you know that most American vodkas are filtered through activated charcoal, or that gin is dis.tilled from grain and recieves its flavor from juniper berries and other botanicals'? I didn't .. In addition to Illy regular · tbree courses at Union. I took a course last week at a different school; the Moneras Bartending School. I always wanted to know how alcohols are made and what is in all those crazy drinks. like the Harvey W allbanger, the Mudslide, the B-52, and the Mai Tai. This was my chance! The course was held at the Holiday Inn on Nott Terrace. The classes ran for four nights of an hour and a half each, with an excellent instructor. We began by learning about all the bar equipment.. from bottle openers and shot glasses to parasols and swiz:~:le sticks to decorate the finished drinks. Ne:x.t. we learned about the many diffrent types of glassware. Martinis., Margareitas. and Manhattans are served in cocktail glasses, while Rum and Cokes, Cape · Codders. and Godmothers are served in old-fashioned glasses, . and Bloody ... Marys, Tom Collins; and Pina Coladas are all served up in Collins gfusses. The class , .continued with discussion of customer relations, bar etiquette, and bartending laws and responsibilities. Then, we jumped into some hands-on practice. Cutting lemons, limes. and oranges in A \celebration of' Union\ was what vtstting composer/vocalist Julie Kabat called her production \Women and Myth.\ Performing to a standing-room-only crowd on Tuesday night, Ms. Kabat sang her way through five musical numbers in theNott Memorial Theater. th ... \ f h' th e. proper. ·.as 100 was · e In \Queen of Hearts\ Julie · first step. We had so much fun Kabat humorously portrayed · as we began mixing the drinks, • the legendary queen from using teal alcohol and the • Alice in Wonderland. As properjuices.· and garnishes. We the queen slowly became mad. even tested some of the drinks · she sang ·~off with her head! ... in to see how they tasted. . twenty-two different languages: The highlight of the evening was the act entitled \Arcllne.\ Ms. Kabat acted out the Greek myth of Arachne and Athena in which Athena eventually transforms Arachne into a spider. With only .the aid of a The music for the act was composed by Union's assistant professor of music, Hilary Tann. Professor Jordan Smith •. an assistant professor of English at Union, wrote the poetry that made up the song. Professor Smith later commented that the performance had been \terrific n and that although he had seen several dress rehearsals, he had been \surprised at how dramatic it was.\ Altogether, Ms. Kabat's fine sense of musical perception and extraordinary singing voice made for an entertaining evening at the Nott. With each drink we learned . · Ms. Kabat's \Child and the the method ·of preparation,· • Moon Tree\ reflected the time stirred. shaken, blended~ the • · that she spent studying the Zen ~ooli~~v~,ru~~;:,,~--------------------------------- 1 the complement, tomato juice, , · .. orange juice, another liquor; : · the type of glassware. highball : glass,. sour glass. cocktail , glass; and lastly:, the garnish, \ celery. cherry. lime. I never knew all that was involved_ in I· making a drink before. What an experience! ~ we ended' the class with a •. written exam and a practical, : · and recieved our certificates of . mixology. Even if I never get a ·bartending job. and make lots . of money, the course ·was . great, and I teamed so much · -about ·Something of which I · previously knew very little. The course is going to be . offered again in about a month. .Look for it... it's worth it! WRUCShow Pick of the Week New Division with Chris Mastrelangeleo New Music Thursday 8-10 ;· i

Page 8 c_ONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 FEATURES, What Does It Mean To Be A Dean? By ELIZABETH PINNEY Almost everyone knows that the Dean of Students is Dean Mammola, and most people also know him as the guy who ,provides certain unplanned \vacations\. But, does everyone know what else he does? Being the Dean of Students means being involved in every activity or organization that a student at Union College might choose to join. Since there are over 2,000 students enrolled at Unjon, the responsibility of overseeing all of their activities, academic or otherwise, is certainly not a small undertaking. Dean Mammola has been the Dean of Students since he came to Union in 1982. He serves on the Student Mfairs Council, the Committee on Standing of Students and is a member of the President's Cabinet. His xesponsibilities include oversight of: the Residence Life Facilities, Dining Setvices, Career Development, Student Health Center, and the College Center. He also deals with issues conce:rning minority students, religious progams, student withdrawals and disciplinary actions. He also heads the judicial proceedings concerning students, review of academic records and notification of academic suspensions, the latter of which includes discussions-with parents abaut their son or daughter's academic Fencing Anyone? By ANDREW M.i\RLEIN- EFRON Do you know what a foil, sabre, or epee is? If you said \Y cs'' to any one of these words you know more than the average person. All three are weapons used in the sport of fencing. Have you ever felt like trying your hand at being . a modem day Zarro? Well, wait no longer! The Union College Fencing Club is looking for new members to join its ranks. No experience at all is necessary, in fact, a great many of our members are first time fencers. We will teach you what you need to know in any of the weapon classes. We have all the equipment that you will need including protective masks, vests, and gloves. Is fencing dangerous? Not any more so than a game of raquetbaU. Maybe change that to \only a little more than a good game of raquetball.\ A little danger is attractive. It is great exercise and the ultimate in speed sports. For more information. call either Andrew· at x6930 or Gary at 370-1994. We'll both be glad to answer any of your questions. Watch for us fencing outside as soon as the weatherpennits. Our practices are held every Wednesday night from 7:30- 9:00 and every Saturday night from 6:00-8:00 in the exercise room of The Alumni Gym. See you there! RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST Preliminary Rounds Week of May ~sth !H!l!SIGN UP TODAY!!!!!! DISPLAY YOUR SKILL AT ORAL EXPRESSION Friday, May 12 • 7 pm -:-- ss 016 --- CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES ******************************************************** Applications: 1) Science & Engineering Bldg., Room 8-10 2) Library Circulation Desk 3) Student Affairs Office- College Center THE TIME IS NQW!!! performance. In addition, Dean Matnmola oversees student activities, including Greek activities and relations and plays an active part in the student counseling program. Clearly. Dean Mammola's responsibilties are v:ast and yet when I talked to him he stressed the fact that he is available to students24 boursa day, seven, days a week if they have a problem of any ldnd,. whether it is personal or a specific school po~icy matter. Since he believes that being available to students is ,one .of the most important aspects of his job, he encourages students t() call him anytime they have a problem and he will be happy ro see them, even if it means calling him at home and ,asking him to come to campus. Dean Mammola. feels that this type of comml,inication is essential in order to provide .a \ 1·· · · ·1·r· · qua hY cornmumty · 1 e m which indi·vidnal rights are respected.\ He believes Union is a small, caring place where people make a difference and he wants to be one of those people. Of cowse. he does not · like to he the bearer of bad news, especially before Christmas. Theref~re, he says he finds the job most rewarding when h:e looks about at Commen,c·efi'lent and remembers the hunrdeds of crises aad difficult starts ·students went through to g~t where they are. He says he likes knowing that when it· is fmally all over, they have b.ad a gOOd e](perience. He feels good about \being par~ of . an institutioll that students feel good abQut~ and so be .never hesitates to stress that if students have any :problems at all, he would be bappy to help ·Qlake their experience at Uni()n happier and more rewarding; My Kind of April by Natalie Bennett Four years in the United States, and I &·tilt have net become · acc~stomed to this kind of weather ..• not.in April. I thought this was Spnng ... you know; when all the flowers bloom, the sun shines and the tem~rature is warm enough for YO.tl to get rid of the winter woolies. So,. what do I do?.l read about my' knid of April in one of my favourite poems by Tom :Redcam, a Jama1can poet: NOW THE LIGNUM VITAE BLOWS Now the lignum Vitae blows, Fair-brewed April ent~:ars here, In her hand a crimson rose, In her eye youth's crystal tear; Moonlit nights, sereneth clear, rock the lilac~purpled bloom, Robes the Lugnum Vitaes wear, Fashioned at some mystic loom, And the Brown Bee comes and goes, And his murmurous sdAg I hear, Like a dozing stream that flows To a drowsy, unseeA mere, Deeply hid;butverynear. Rare the robes, the trees. assume. Robes the Libnum Vitaes wear, F.ashioned at some mystic loom .• The gry Nightingale; he knows Music's mazes for the ear; O'er the tinted petal snows, He, of Spring th' inspired Seer, Sings melodiously clear; Rate as souls of ~Df perfume, Robes the lignum Vitaes wear, Fashioned.at some mystic. loom. Envoi All of April's fnacy gear, None excels thee; 1old or plume, Flowers the Lignum Vttaes wear Fashiorted at some mystic loom. Now, that's my kind of April! A Plateful of Q,uestions Tuesday at noon, 4th Flqor Lounge College Center This Week's Questic;>n: ''What's sacred in your life?\ All Are Welcome! Bring your lun~h . . Sponsored by: Delta Psi Selta Campus Protestant Mlnlstry

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 9 The Class .of ·1993 is Calling ' ' \O· .. ··u··.· .... ·····'·' f •I. . • • BE ·A·N. O·R·I·E.NTAT'I_Q:N A.DVISOR App·llcations are in. the Dean of · Students Office . Thlrd Floor Colleg~e ·cen.ter . l;)eadUne, A·pril 1.4 ''No matter how bad they are, Grand.rila loves to hear the latest jokes_.,, For anyone interested in . e·ating Kosher for Passover . meals durlng the up.comlng · fl.ollday, there are still some available s.pots. ·Please notify Lisa at 3 70- 6929 by Frid.ay, Apri.l 14 if you want to be·included in eight- day Passover . meal plan or seder home hospita·lity You miss her sparkling sense of humor. She misses you and your jokes. Even the bad ones. That's one good reason to call long distance. AT&T Long Distance Service is another good reason. Be- cause it costs less than you think to hear your grand- mother start to giggle be- fore you even get to the punch line. So whenever you miss · her laughter, bring a smile to her face with AT&T. Reach outandtouchsorneone~ If you'd like to know more about AT&T products and services, like the AT & T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. ATs.T The right choice. UNION COLLEGE BLOOD- MOBILE Wednesday, April19, Thursday, April20, · and .Friday April 21 ·In Davidson Lounge from 11:30 to 5:30 pm ., '· ,, ,, l 11

P~ge 10 CONCORDfENSlS April 13, 1989 * * * I·N~TERNAT:IONAL HOUSE 1988-89.* * * Co-Chairs Write About International House By KEViN HONIKEL and CRISTINA CAL VI As manv of you know, the second floor of Webster House is horne to a group of International and American students, who live together in what is known as the International House. American students; .second, they allow the international students to become involved in extracurricular projects and excursions; third, these activities bring international and American students closer together, because they allow the House members to share new experiences together. .·.~. @ .> .m ~ CL. The group, originally consisting of fourteen members, has included students from England, Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union. The International House provides a space for these students to internet with Americart students who are interested in learning from othet cultures. Sharing the same environment gives the opportunity for American and International students to compare their views on each other's countries and on contemporary issues, The House fosters an understanding of another's customs that can only come from personal interaction. For the near future. the International House is hoping to generate more cross-cultural activities on campus and to keep receiving positive responses from the whole Union community. Also in the future, the House would like to have a more diverse membership, from mote different parts of the world. If you would like to have more information about · this community, please come by to visit!!!! Application fonns for next year International House will be available in the Residence Life Office starting from next week. The deadline for returning applications is May 1. The International House depends on a dedicated and active membership; lhe suc.cess of nex~ year's House will be determined by the quality of its membership. Is terdliiOiiC.t House The Place To Live? The pr-esent location of the International House allows the members to easily socialize with each other; there are in fact two common areas where they can meet and talk. One needs only to walk out of his room to become involved in a discussion about a \far-away\ place or situation. The activities of the students in the House extend beyond the boundaries of Webster House, however. The International House has sponsored trips to the Albany Lark Fest, Thatcher Park, New York City, and Boston. The House also co-sponsored (with the International Student Union and with other International Clubs) activities such as a Homecoming Float, an International Thanksgiving Dinner, a Mardi Gras Party, and a Nutella Party. There are several benefits from these activities: first, through excursions, they enable the international students to see places in the U.S. from the perspective of BEAN ORIENTATION ADVISOR! Applications are in . the Dean of Students Office Third Floor, College Center. DEADLINE: APRIL 14 LANGUAGE TABLES- SPRING TERM Mondays 12:45-1:45 French, Japanese Tuesdays 11 :30- }2:30 Chinese Wedenesdays 12:45-1:45 German, Russian , Spanish Thursdays 11:30-12:30 Italian, Dutch All language tables will meet in the Upperclass Dining Room in the College Center. · lly ANTHEE CARASSAVAS About two years ago a group of students persuaded the administration to establish a co-ed house with the intent. and purpose of providing a cultural living experience to the Union College students. The idea was a great success but' has the house indeed achieved or better set solid foundations for a successful campus tradition? Having interviewed the current members of the house and Dean Alford, who is the advisor or-- international studen·ts, the common consensus that w:as concluded with respect to the house's role within Union, was that of reptesenting and actually being a source of mutual support for the incoming international students. As Dean Alford stated, \It is a locus for international students to. get together.\ Furthermore, within this environment of' \mut11ality\ the American students serye .as both catalysts and b-uffers for the international students' process ofada,ptation. In short while helping them . integrate within the American college environment, they 1~ · about different cultures, attit u\des~ · ideas\; • 'and- perceptions. When asking the members with what expectations they ************************* FASHION SHOW REHEARSAL TONIGHT 9:00-11:00, :pm. ************************* ~- . . entered the house, the Soviet exchange studellt and the German T .A. responded that they were unfamiliar witll what the International House was. Slowly, however, they familiarized themselves with the distinction of the house ..-from dorm life. Other members responded by saying that ·they had heard of it ftorn last )'ear's iictivities and \festivities\ that had . taken place withill the house. The difficulties cited by the co-chairs were primarily thqse of -\trying · to b~:ala,nee ·discussion; arid decision. •. •• and \dictatorship added Hans Schwart;t.;. Nevertheless, the multitudes of discussions and debates that have taken place this year, primarily durlmg fall term, were amazing and q~ appealing to anyone interestea in debating, learning or just listening. The house should have taken advantage tlf ·this great \asset\ by having some · kind of \weekly discassions\; an idea that was indeed proposed but was never ·.actualized, unfortUnately. · When asking abo11t . the · difficulties and frictions that might have been ge:IIerated between internatiollal and 'American ~students. ··many members respOnded bl' stating that it is an undetermined \phenomenon 11 ; that is,' that as well as some people can \'hit it off\ others may· ll()t. An .example .of such a sit11ation occutred during fall teim. So how does one deal with it? Hans Schwartz stated, \Just like any freshman wo11fd d~al with. it.\ Mike Greeaberg, however, added th:at \any differences that might «:cur are in terms .of social behavior.\ This indeed should be expected and shouldn't be a source of C()nstemation for it helps make !llembers r.ealize with their \r.eal eyes\· that social and cultural differences ex:ist. This again is the ultimate benefit tbat one can attain from living at International house. As for activities. the house sponsored many events and organized trips to Boston and Niagara Falls, which were open to all interested Union College stl,ldents. The house, however, should make an effort to .. produce\ and organize something that is genuinely . --- . ;reflective ,of .what. the house :indeed symbolizes and tepresents. So, is the International House an interesting place to liv.ei :Definitely yes, but more enthusiasm and participation sholl:ta take place. It is the obligation of the co-chairs and prini..arlly previous members to constantly refer to the initial intent and purpose of the founding members, so as to maintain and transcend the ••spt:iii~· of the international house~··, Without doubt, it is a new .component within our coll~ge, and it would be ridicrifous to expect it to have blossomed from a mere bulb to a beautiful and deeply rooted flower in· a matter of one year. Nevertheless, the future of its success or failure is dependent vn -your participation and determination to make the best available to us: to Union ·The International House has several places open for those students interested in exploring ideas from all corners of the globe. Application forms will be available next week at the Residence Life Office. Pick one up ... it might be the best experience you11 ever have here at Union!!! · This Week's Germe~n 'Film ''DIE ABRECHNUNG'' fTHE ·R·E'YEN·GE) ·Monday, Aprd 17 CC 406 at 7:30 pm .\ ., .....

P~ge 10 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 * * * IN-TERNATIONAL H:OUSE 1988-89* * * Co-Chairs Write About International House By KEVIN HONIKEL and CRISTINA CALVI As manv of you know, the second floor of Webster House is home to a group of International and American students, who live together in what is known as the International House. The group, originally consisting of fourteen members, has included students from England, Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union. Tile International House provides a space for these students to interact with American students who are interested in learning from other cultures. Sharing the same environment gives the opportunity for American and International studeNts to compare their views on each other's countries and on contemporary issues. The House fosters an UI'lderstanding of another's customs that can only come from personal interaction. The present location of the International House allows the members to easily socialize with each other; there are in fact two common areas where they can meet and talk. One needs only to walk out of his room to become involved in a discussion about a \far-away\ place or situation. The activities of the students in the House extend beyond the boundaries of Webster House, however. The International House has sponsored trips to the Albany Lark Fest, Thatcher Park, New York City. and Boston. The House also co-sponsored (with the International Student Union and with other International Clubs) activities such as a Homecoming Float, an International Thanksgiving Dinner, a Mardi Gras Party, and a Nutella Party. There are several benefits from these activities: first, through excursions, they enable the international students to see places in the U.S. from the perspective of BE AN ORIENT A liON ADVISOR! Applications are in the Dean of Students Office Third Floor, College Center. DEADLINE: APRIL 14 American students; second, they allow the international studeNts to become involved in extracurricular projects and excursions; third, these activities bring international and American students closer together, because they allow the House members to share new experiences together. Union College's \Melting Pot\ For the near future, the Intematioaal House is hoping to generate more cross-cultural activities on campus and to keep receiving positive responses from the whole Union community. Also in the future, the House would like to have a more diverse membership, from more different parts of the world. If you would like to have more information about this community, please come by to visit!!!! Application forms for next year International House will be available in the Residence Life Office starting from next week. The deadline for returning applications is May 1. The International House depends on a dedicated and active membership; the success of next year's House will be determined by the quality of its membership. Is International House The Place To Live? LANGUAGE TABLES- SPRING 1ERM Mondays 12:45-1:45 French. Japanese Tuesdays 11:30-12:30 Chinese Wedenesdays 12:45-1:45 German, Russian , Spanish Thursdays 11:30-12:30 Italian, Dutch All language tables will meet in the Upperclass Dining Room in the College Center. By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS About two years ago a group of students persuaded the administration to establish a co-ed house with the intent and purpose of providing a cultural living experience to the Union College students. The idea was a great success but has the house indeed achieved or better set solid foundations for a successful campus tradition? Having interviewed the current members of the house and Dean Alford, who is the advisor of international students, the common consensus that was concluded with respect to the house's role within Union, was that of representing and actually being a source of mutual support for the incoming international students. As Dean Alford stated, \It is a locus for international students to get together.\ Furthermore, within this environment of \mutuality\ the American students serve as both catalysts and buffers for the international students' process of adaptation. In short while helping them integrate within the American college environment, they learn about different cultures, attitudes, ideas, and perceptions. When asking the members with what expectations they ************************* FASHION SHOW REHEARSAL TONIGHT 9:00-11:00 pm ************************* entered the house, the Soviet exchange student and the German T.A. responded that they were unfamiliar with what the International House was. Slowly. however, they familiarized themselves with the distinction of the house from dorm life. Other members responded by saying that they had heard of it from last year's activities and \festivities\ that had taken place within the house. The difficulties cited by the co-chairs were primarily those of -\trying to balance discussion, and decision ... \ and \dictatorship added Hans Schwartz. Nevertheless, the multitudes of discussions and debates that have taken place this year, primarily during fall term, were amazing and quite appealing to anyone interested in debating, learning or just listening. The house should have taken advantage of this great \asset\ by having some kind of \weekly discussions\; an idea that was indeed proposed but was never actualized, unfortunately. When asking about the difficulties and frictions that might have been generated between international and American students, many members responded by stating that it is an undetermined \phenomenon\; that is, that as well as some people can \hit it off\ others may not. An example of such a situation occurred during fall term. So how does one deal with it? Hans Schwartz stated, \Just like any freshman would deal with it.\ Mike Greenberg, however, added that \any differences that might occur are in terms of social behavior.\ This indeed should be expected and shouldn't be a source of consternation for it helps make members fealize with their \real eyes\ that social and cultural differences exist. This again is the ultimate benefit that one can attaill from living at International h0t1se. As for activities. the house sponsored many events and organized trips tl> Boston and Niagara Falls, whi<:h were open to all interested Union College students. The ho11se, however, sllould make a.n effort to \produce\ and organize something that is genuinely reflective of wllat the house indeed symbolizes and represents. So, is the International House an interesting place to live? Definitely :yes, but more enthusiasm and participation should take pla.ce. It is the obligation of the co-chairs and primarily previous members to constantly refer to the initial intent and purpose of the founding mem\)ers, so as to maintain and transcend the \spirit\ of the international llouse. Without doubt, it is a !lew componellt within our college, and it would be ridiculous to e:xpect it to have blossomed from a mere bulb to a beautiful and deeply rooted flower in a matter of one year. Nevertheless, tile future of its success or fail&e is dependent on your participation and determination t<> make the best available to us: m Union The International House has several places ()pen for those students interested in exploring ideas from all corners of the globe. Application forms will be available next week at the Residence Life Office. Pick one up ... it migilt be the best experience you'll ever have here at Union!!! This Week's German Film \DIE ABRECHNUNG'' tTHE REVENGE) Monday, April 17 CC 406 at 7:30 pm

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Pola·nd Raises The lro.n Curtain The application deadline for next winter's Terms Abroad pr,ograms to Greece, Barbados,, Spain, and Isreal, is Monday, April17, 1989 •. INTERESTED IN HELPING ORGANIZE THE ' . . 4th ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL WEEKEND (MAY 5, 6, 7) CONTACT LAURA & E.DGAR 370-6834 By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Lech Walesa and Polish Communist officials together signed an agreement. There could hardly be more dramatic evidence of the end of the ·cold war. The agreement shows that even in t:he Communist bloc, behind what we call the \Iron Curtain\ a grass-roots revolution can achieve something approximating its goals. Translating protest into the signing of a formal agreement took tactical brilliance on the part Of Solidarity, as well as great political courage on behalf of the Communist officials, like Gen. Jaruzelski and Gen. Kiszcack. It seems that the innovations of Gorbachev gave ;them a simpler and immeasurably safer task to pursue and embark upon than that of applying past \orthodox\ techniques and strategies. In detail the accord restores legal status to Solidarity, Rural Solidarity and the Independent Students Association. It also restores the Polish senate, Which was abolished in 1946, and create.s a powerful new presidency. to be filled. like in the Soviet counterpart, by indirectelection. Following the Soviet paradigm, as usual, the .agreement sets up competitive elections.. fully free for the Senate, pre-allocated among Com'munist and non- Communist parties for the lower house. Theimportance .of this should not be overlooked, for the mere reason that it goes far beyond the Soviet model in conceding non,.Communists an arithmetically decisive legislative role. The greatest significance. however, is that. as Gorbacbev concluded that he could not have perestroika with glasnost, \ HELP AMNESTY BY SIGNING THE FOLL.OWING LETTER.: Aleksandr Y akovlevich Sukhafev Procw:ator Genetal of the USSR ul.' Pushkinslcitya, lSa 103793 Moscow USSR Dear Procurator Sukharev: 1 am writing.out of concern fQr Bohdan Stepanovich Klymchak. currently imprisoned in the Perm. Cortective Labor Colony 35, serving· a 2()-year seiltenc~ under artiCle 64 of the Russian · Ctiminal Code (\treason in the form of flight abroad\}. ln 1978 Klymchak crossed the Soviet border into Iran, but was returned ·llY the Iranian authorities. I have read with int~rest that in March 1989, the USSR will adopt new principles of criminal law. I am especially glad to read that these new principles emphasize that Soviet criminal laws must comply with international agreements. ln 1973, the USSR ratified the United Nation's Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 12-2 of which states that \everyone has the right to leave .any country, including his own.\ ~ am concerned that Bohdan Klymchak remains imprisoned for his peaceful· attempt lo exercise this basic human right, and I urge you to work for the repeal of all. current laws that restrict basic human freedoms such as expression, religion, movement and association. I am glad to see that, under the new principles, the punishment of internal exile has been . abolished. I hope this means that K.lymchak. and all others like him who are either currently serving a term.of~ip~!d ~x.ile,. Ql' f~~:S1JC~ a term as a supplementary punishment, will have that part of then\ sentence cancelled outright:' ,, ~ Copy to: ..._.,_,,.,, w-,_' Embassy of the Soviet-Union 112s t6th street, NW · Washington,. DC 2Q037 Respectfully, •. r, ........ , . Gen. Jaruzelski no_w acknowledges tllat, under Polish conditions. economic reform requires .authentic political partnership with the workers~ No other Communist regime has gone so far. Poland legalize<i Solidarity once before, in 1980, only to renege 14 months later. But as Gorbachev professes, it was during the Brezhnev era, and under the Rre:zhnev doctrine, when Soviet intervention was imaginable. The years since have given fres)l proof that reptession cannot cure Poland's economy. Can this new political and economic partnersllip work? It can be accomplished. But the issue is truly not tllat. Instead it is observing and forecasting the implications, or better, the re,percus.sions of the partnerships' success within the Communist bloc. In short, should Poland's eff()rt prosper, others may follow, beginning with Hungary. Liberalizing pressures would increase on the holdout Stalinist states like Czechoslovaki~ Rumania, ·and East Germany. As regards the effects to the Soviet Union. Isvestia reports from the otb of April have started questioning whether the issue of introducing opposition politics might s:om.e day be considered. But Gcrbacbev, dismissed the question not with a \niet\ but by cltatacterizing such an idea as •• rubbish,\ and insisting that there is fennent enough in tile ruling Communist P<;Ylitical Party so as to carry out the political and economic chang-es that he is seeking. An intersting declaration was also made, that the Polish economic changes were particularly sign.ificant for \putting to rest the myth that socialsim cannot be subject to renewal.\ An thee Carassavas, of I.F.Concordiensis, added that. \In Poland's present demand for debt relief, Raisa's American Express Card can be of significant help.\ INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK by Antbee Carassavas \Which llistori~ Figure Do You Admire.the Most? Why? Scott Adams '89- Greg Goetz. because, 'by golly, he is a storehouse ofkllowledge. · Greg Goetz 'g9- George Washington ... Where would we be without him. Dina Schweitz:er '90- The Marx ,Brothers and Charlie Chaplin. Corey Steinberg '90- John F. Kennedy. It seems that it was a time when America was happiest Helene DeVries '39- Martin Luther King, because he believed in his cause and fought for the right of all Americans. Jay Freeland ''91- Mickey Mouse. Elise Foody ·~1- Jack Kerohac. What king of songs would Natalie Mercllant have to sing without him. Kevin Gardner '89- Eliphalet Nott He was very deep, and he's dead. ' >' ' I Karebeba '89'· Papandreou. I \admire\ his \willingnness\ to be characterized ill the books of Modern Greek politicll history as the only Greek prime minister that has been able to combine business witb J)leasure.

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Polan,d Raises The Iron Curtain The application deadline for next winter's Terms Abroad programs to Greece, Barbados, Spain, and Isreal; is Monday, Aprill7, 1989. INTERESTED IN HELPING ORGANIZE THE 4th ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL WEEKEND (MAY 5, 6, 7) CONTACT LAURA & EDGAR 370-6834 By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Lech Walesa and Polish Communist officials together signed an agreement. There could hardly be more dramatic evidence of the end of the cold war. The agreement shows that even in the Communist bloc, behind what we call the \Iron C11 rtain\ a grass-roots revolution can achieve something approximating its goals. Translating protest into the signing of a formal agreement took tactical brilliance on the part of Solidarity, as well as great political courage on behalf of the Communist officials, like Gen. Jaruzelski and Gen. Kiszcack. It seems that the innovations of Gorbachev gave them a simpler and immeasurably safer task to pursue and embark upon than that of applying past \orthodox\ techniq11es and strategies. In detail the accord restores legal status to Solidarity, Rural Solidarity and the Independent Students Association. It also restores the Polish senate, which was abolished in 1946, and creates a powerful new presidency, to be filled, like in the Soviet counterpart, by indirect election. Following the Soviet paradigm, as usual, the agreement sets up competitive elections, fully free for the Senate, pre-allocated among Com'munist and non- Communist parties for the lower house. Theimportance of this should not be overlooked, for the mere reason that it goes far beyond the Soviet model in conceding non-Communists an arithmetically decisive legislative role. The greatest significance, however, is that, as Gorbachev concluded that he could not have perestroika with glasnost, HELP AMNESTY BY SIGNING THE FOLLOWING LETTER: Aleksandr Yakovlevich Sukharev Procurator General of the USSR ul. Pushkinskaya, 15a 103793 Moscow USSR Dear Procurator Sukharev: I am writing out of concern for Bohdan Stepanovich Klymchak, currently imprisoned in the Perm Corrective Labor Colony 35, serving a 20-year sentence under article 64 of the Russian Criminal Code (\treason in the form of flight abroad\). In 1978 Klymchak crossed the Soviet border into Iran, but was returned by the Iranian authorities. I have read with interest that in March 1989, the USSR will adopt new principles of criminal law. I am especially glad to read that these new principles emphasize that Soviet criminal laws must comply with international agreements. In 1973, the USSR ratified the United Nation's Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 12-2 of which states that \everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own.\ I am concerned that Bohdan Klymchak remains imprisoned for his peaceful attempt to exercise this basic human right, and I urge you to work for the repeal of all current laws that restrict basic human freedoms such as expression, religion, movement and association. I am glad to see that, under the new principles, the punishment of internal exile has been abolished. I hope this means that Klymchak, and all others like him who are either currently serving a term of internal exile or face such a term as a supplementary punishment, will have that part of their sentence cancelled outright Copy to: Embassy of the Soviet Union 1125 16th Street, NW Washington, DC 2Q037 Respectfully, Gen. J aruzelski now acknowledges that, under Polish conditions, economic reform reqt~ires authentic political partnership with the workers. No other Commt~nist regime has gone so far. Poland legalized Solidarity once before, in 1980, only to renege 14 months later. But as Gorbachev professes, it was during the Brezhnev era, and under the Brezhnev doctrine, when Soviet intervention was imaginahle. The years since have given fresh proof that repression cannot cure Poland's economy. Can this new political and economic partnership work? It can be accomplished. But the issue is truly not that. Instead it is observing and forecasting the implications, or better, the repercussions of the partnerships' success within the Communist bloc. In short, should Poland's effort prosper, others may follow, beginning with Hungary. Liberalizing pressures would increase on the holdout Stalinist states like Czechoslovakia, Rumania, and East Germany. As regards the effects to the Soviet Union, Isvestia reports from the 6th of April have started questioning whether the issue of introducing opposition politics might some day be considered. But Gorbachev, dismissed the question not with a \niet\ but by characterizing such an idea as \rubbish and insisting that there is ferment enough in the ruling Communist Political Party so as to carry out the political and economic changes that he is seeking. An intersting declaration was also made, that the Polish economic changes were particularly significant for \putting to rest the myth that socialsim cannot be subject t() renewal.\ Anthee Carassavas. of I.F .Concordiensis, added that, \In Poland's present demand for debt relief, Raisa's American Express Card can be of significant help.\ INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK by Anthee Carassavas \Which Historical Figure Do You Admire the Most? Why? Scott Adams '89- Greg Goetz, because, 'by golly, he is a storehouse of knowledge. Greg Goetz '89- George Washington ... Where would we t.e without him. Dina Schweitzer '90- The Marx Brothers and Charlie Chaplill. Corey Steinberg '90- John F. Kennedy. It seems that it was a time when America was happiest. Helene DeVries '89- Martin Luther King, because he believed in his cause and fought for the right of all Americans. Jay Freeland '91- Mickey Mouse. Elise Foody '91- Jack Kerohac. What king of songs wollld Natalie Merchant have to sing without him. Kevin Gardner '89- Eliphalet Nott. He was very deep, and be's dead. Karebeba '89- Papandreou. I \admire\ his \willingnness\ t() be characterized. in the books of Modem Greek political history as the only Greek prime minister that has been able to cornlline b11Siness with pleasure.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Founded at Union College 1877---- Inequality Of The Sexes Feminism is the theory of the political, economic, · and social equality of the sexes. It is not just a women's issue but it is an issue that should be ·• · addressed by both men and women alike. Currently, there cdsts no active Feminist student organization on . campus. Do students believe that no sexism occurs at Union or within our. environment? When a woman can not walk past the flag pole for fear that the rugby team will stop to whistle and make rude remarks., then it is time for students. on campus to address feminist issues. When posters of nude men and women are on sale in the bookstore, then it is time for students to discuss how this affects them as people who wish te be treated as complete individuals and not as sex objects. When a large number of women have eating disorders, then it is time for students to wonder if this is a result of a sexist campus. When fraternities are allowed to serve alcohol but sororities are not, then it is time for students to question why and how has the . national political and economical sexist environment affected our lives. When women nationwide still only earn 3/5 of men's wages, then it is time for students to discuss how they will deal with the sexist situation . upon graduation. That time is now. This past weekend at the March for Women's Equality, Women's Lives, the student who spoke on behalf of colleges nationwide stated that \campuses are moving from a time of apathy to one of action\. Thus the Union community must take responsibility for its future and the future of both men and women. This is a· male dominated campus. The administration, the Board of Trustees, the faculty, the greek system and sports organizations are all male dominated. In su~!\t a situation, The Union Community must be thoughtful of the consequences of their every action. There still is a long way to go before equality of the sexes is achieved at Union. The Passive Consumer Many professors use what is known as the index card system in their classes. The first day of a course each student is asked to write his or her name, year, and major on an index card. A professor has merely to go through the cards and call on a student at random to have that student participate in class. While that professor may abandon the practice· after the first few weeks, the habit is instilled and the class works as before. It is with these cards that a professor encourages a student into active learning. But why is it that most students here are more passive than active in the consumption of their education? Why is it that professors are using these tactics in the classroom? Many students go to their classes everyday, sit silently, take notes, and end up with a grade and a credit and not much more. But this is not education. Some argue that sitting back and absorbing what transpires in the classroom is active listening. Some point out that while one may be passive in the classroom, one may be active in other areas of life to make up for it. H9wever, this is generally not the case with students at Union. One sees many of the same faces at various events on campus-. these people are active consumers of their education. They are generally the ones who participate and really bite into their classes. So, what about the rest of the student body? One may !Jlame passive consumption of education on . professors, or on the material taught, or on the fact that required credits and grades hang over one's head throughout a college career. Idealistically, every one should disregard these excuses and be active, taking what one is able. In truth, most of us do what is easiest We glide t:htough college, doing the least work we can. And we ask: \Is the classroom the place to learn?' 1 The answer is yes. The classroom has educated . some fine individuals. Of course it is not the be all to end all-this thought has brought us to this question. Half tile battle is up to the student in his or her activeness or passiveness. LETTERS . . ' ' . . ~ . ' -:· '; - -' Freedom. of ChoiCe Dented at Unton College To the Editors: I would like to reply to the article ·by Jennifer Holmes on \Inter-Departmental Majors at Union\ in the April 6 C on c or d le ~ s is . W'hat concerned me in this article was the negative views of some faculty on the issue of Inter-Departmental majors. I would like to address first the reasons why Inter-Departniental majors hold merit, and finally the shabbiness of some of the anti-Inter· Departmental points espoused. Planning for and procuring an Inter-Departmental major is just another example of self- motivation in an environment where apathetic coeds are a constant source of attention. Desiring a wider breadth of study than can be allowed by a single Major is very much in keeping with the idea of a Liberal Arts education. The very words \Liberal Arts' 1 imply · choice and by the exercise of such a · better judgment. Surely afte·r competing to gain entrance .tQ this jnstitution and paying dearly to stay here, one should be able to exercise ·a copious amount of this choice. That Union College should help us to become. independent and responsible l;ldUlts no one would deny. With this in mind, af\,Y extension of the ~ontrol which the Colleg:e already exerts over out academic and social .Jives is disconcerHng. The validity of \scholarly\ reason:s for an Inter- l)epattmental major should be left as much as possible to the Judgment of the student. H there are more advantages to a Major/Minor scheme, this should be another option made available to the students. Ariy new scheme should not ·eclipse already existing options. Furthennore, \how important is the coherence ., and inter:meshing . ! of maj,ors,'' should be a worry for the students . themselves not · for some arbJt~ary planner. Intellectual· curiosity is a very personal matter;, and it should be the ultimate goal of any department to accommodate such. If any department thinks that· taking '!only\ six or eight of it$ course will have little or no va1ue to students~ then there is little or. no value in that department. If Union College wishes to remain a top flight academic institution, she must abandon this new .. found resolve to lead her students bl~ndly through their academic and social lives. Benjamin M. Auslander '90 Economics/History Outdoor Courtesy Phone Inoperable · To the Editors: A week ago the Telecommunications Office notified the campus community that we had installed 5 outdoor courtesy phones \to enhance college security.\ We assumed these phones would be treated with respect for the purpose for which they were installed. We LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION Of. THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBiviiTTED TO TilE CONCORDJENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M.ONTHE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS . . LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEPlED. assumed wrong. The first weekend of use someone for some reason decided to destroy the phone located on the exterior wall noitheast side of West College; The l/2\ heavy duty receiver cord had been cut off with what must hav.e been wire cutters or a saw of Some kind. This was no easy task. To whoevermanaged·this feat I hope you have put th~ cord and receiver to ·good use, and can \ sleep well knowing that repair of this damage will be at considerable expense to the college (and ultimately to the students). In the meantime this phone will remain \inoperable\ for the remainder of the school year. Sincerely. Diane R Winkler Telecommunications Manager - - c To( D Unic atte1 sore resp and cam usua havi has Freq fore With wou Uni< abm whic reali R Adn plar fratc CifCl Coll systc Delt Sigi: Unic kno~ the syst1 Chi Delt Unic inte, Unic gro' nurn this YOUl the com T prof Ore· true \we Ad Adt can: app1 and ex a AH is c acti

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 (JI ~ rblrttsis Founded at Union C£Jllege 1877 ---- Inequality Of The Sexes Feminism is the theory of the political, economic. and social equality of the sexes. It is not just a women's issue but it is an issue that should be addressed by both men and women alike. Currently. there exists no active Feminist student organization on campus. Do students believe that no sexism occurs at Union or within our. environment? When a woman can not walk past the flag pole for · fear that the rugby team will stop to whistle and make rude remarks, then it is time for students on campus to address feminist issues. When posters of nude men and women are on sale in the bookstore, then it is time for students to discuss how this affects them as people who wish to be treated as complete individuals and not . · as sex objects. When a large number of women have eating disorders, then it is time for students to wonder if this is a result of a sexist campus. When fraternities are allowed to serve alcohol but sororities are not, then it is time for students to question why and how has the national political and economical sexist environment affected our lives. When women nation wide still only earn 3/5 of men's wages, then it is time for students to discuss how they will deal with the sexist situation upon graduation. That time is now. This past weekend at the March for Women's Equality, Women's Lives, the student who spoke on behalf of colleges nationwide stated that \campuses are moving from a time of apathy to one of action\. Thus the Union community must take responsibility for its future and the future of both men and women. This is a male domi11ated campus. The administration, the Board of Trustees, the faculty, the greek system and sports organizations are all male dominated. In such a situation, The Union Community must be thoughtful of the consequences of their every action. There still is a long way to go before equality of the sexes is achieved at Union. The Passive Consumer Many professors use what is known as the index card system in their classes. The first day of a course each student is asked to write his or her name, year, and major on an index card. A professor has merely to go through the cards and call on a student at random to have that student participate in class. While that professor may abandon the practice after the first few weeks, the habit is instilled and the class works as before. It is with these cards that a professor encourages a student into active learning. But why is it that most students here are more passive than active in the consumption of their education? Why is it that professors are using these tactics in the classroom? Many students go to their classes everyday, sit silently, take notes, and end up with a grade and a credit and not much more. But this is not education. Some argue that sitting back and absorbing what transpires in the classroom is active listening. Some point out that while one may be passive in the classroom, one may be active in other areas of life to make up for it. However, this is generally not the case with students at Union. One sees many of the same faces at various events on campus- these people are active consumers of their education. They are generally the ones who participate and really bite into their classes. So, what about the rest of the student body? One may blame passive consumption of education on professors, or on the material taught, or on the fact that required credits and grades hang over one's head throughout a college career. Idealistically, every one should disregard these excuses and be active, taking what one is able. In truth, most of us do what is easiest. We glide through college, doing the least work we can. And we ask: \Is the classroom the place to learn?\ The answer is yes. The classroom has educated some fine individuals. Of course it is not the be all to end all-this thought has brought us to this question. Half the battle is up to the student in his or her activeness or passiveness. LETTERS Freedom of Choice Denied at Union College To the Editors: I would like to reply to tlle article by Jennifer Holmes on \lnter-Departmental Majors at Union\ in the April 6 C on cor d i en sis . What concer:ned me in this article was the negative views of some faculty on the issue of Inter-Departmental majors. I would like to address first the reasons why Inter-Departmental majors hold merit, and finally the shabbiness of some of the anti-Inter-Departmental poilus espoused. Planning for and procuring an Inter-Departmental major is just another example of self- motivation in an environment where apathetic coeds are a constant source of attention. Desiring a wider breadth of study than can be allowed by a single Major is very much in keeping with the idea of a Liberal Arts education. The very words \Liberal Arts\ imply · choice and by the exercise of such a better judgment. Surely after competing to gain entrance to ~his institution and paying dearly to stay here, one should be able to exercise a copious arno1:1nt of tllis choice. That Union College should help us to become independent and respon.sible adults no one would deny. With this in mind, any extension of the control which the College already exerts over our academic and social lives is disconcerting. The validity of \scholarly\ reasons for an Inter- Departmental major should be left as much as possible to the judgment of the stttdent. If there are more advantages to a Major/Minor scheme, this should be another option made available to the students. Any new scheme should not eclipse already existing options. Furthe:rmore, \how important is the coherence · aad intermeshing of majors,\ should be a worry for the studen:ts themselves not for some arbitrary planner. Intellectual curiosity is a very :personal matter, and it should be the ultimate goal of any departmen.t to accommodate such. If any department thinks that taking \only\ six or eight of its course wHl have little or no value to students, then there is little or no value in that department. If Union College wishes to remain a top flight academic institution, she must abandon this new-found resolve to lead her students blindly through their academic and social lives. Benjamin M. Auslander '90 Economics/History Outdoor Courtesy Phone Inoperable To the Editors: A week ago the Telecommunications Office notified the campus community that we had installed 5 outdoor courtesy phones \to enhance college security.\ We assumed these phones would be treated with respect for the purpose for which they were installed. We lETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARilY REFLECT THE OPINION Of THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUB:MITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEPTED. assumed wrong. The first weekend of usc someone for some reason decided to destroy Lhe phone located on the exterior wail northeast side of West College. The 1/2\ heavy duty receiver cord had been cut off with what must have been wire cutters or a saw of some kind. This was no easy task. To whoever managed this feat I hope you have put the cord and receiver to good use, and can \ sleep well knowing that repair of this damage will be at considerable expense to the college (and ultimately to the students). In the meantime this phone will remain \inoperable\ for the remainder of the school year. Sincerely, Diane R. Winkler Telecommunications Manager - - G To tl Dt Unic atten soro1 respj and ,cam] usua havi:J has Freq: ford wilh W'()U] Unia abou whic reali~ Rt A.dm p la:n frate circt Co ]!I( syste DelLi Sigii Uaia knov the] systE Chi l DelLi Unic inte! U11ic gro\' num this your the com· Tt proti Gret trLie, \we Ad1 Adn cam appE and, exar AID is c acti

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Union :Coilege Overlooks Its History and D-Chi --, To the Editors: Dw'ing my four years at Unioll it has come to my attention that fraternities and sororities often- ~voke negative respollses from other · groups and i1tdi viduals. Talk around campin :regarding Greeks is usually centeted around who is havillg: a .party,. or which house has fallen from grace. Frequently, Greeks are in the foreu()nt when being linked with unfortuate incidents. I would like to .share witl) the Union community some points about ·Greek.s and Greek life whicll: ·many people may not realize or-consider; Rumors about the Admi~tistration and/or faculty planning to pha-se out fraternities and sororities. · circulate constantly. Union College has the O'ldest :Greek system in America. In 18?7, Delta Phi. Kaooa Aloha. and Sigma Phi were founded at Union. These three fraternities, known as the Union· Triad, set ' the pattern for the fraternity system in the United States. Chi Psi, Psi Upsilon and Theta DeltaCW were alsolounded at Union. The system has been~ an integral and active part of Union for 162 years and has grown in both strength and riumbet. Something has kept this system running-- it is the young men, and more recently, the young women. who comprise these gmups. The Administration often professes to be \working with\ Gree::ks. Although this may be true, it is also often 'the Greeks \working for\ the Administr.ation. The positively by the Administration and our To the Editors: nationals. Most of us After having had three participate, but not because it . appeals to the firm position •itooks good.'' Each Greek upheld by tgne SAC's decision or:ganizaton suppo,rts a .. to revoke Delta Chi's housing particular cbadty and privileges, one wonders if the contributes to it substantially. . claim espoused }>y the If we do not participate in. such . committee is indeed one of true activities, it is ·usually because \intent.\ The so-called \Delta we have previously obligated Chj Case\ bas come to ourselves elsewhere. illuminate the \Sketchings\ and · Rega:rdl ess- e>f faculty. planning of Union College's Administration and student \future look,\ In effect, it is body feelings, one cannot deny apparent that the issue is much that Greeks ~e :the foundation • broader and critical than what it of social life on campus. · seems to be on its superficial Hosting p~es is not a DUTY level. The issue is indeed not -of fraternities .. Rather, it is Delta Chi's housing problem, their prerogative to sponsor · but the role of fraternities in social functions in their general. homes. Professor Klein in last Most' ftatemity arid sorority week's Concorlliensis stated initiations. occur spring t~rm. . that the establishment of \new During \H¢11 Week\ ·these common-theme coed group houses are dosed' to non- • housing ... \ w()Uld serve as \an members. ·Often one hears exciting housing alternative for \There is nothing to do this the students.\ Tho ugh weekend, 'Alpha Alpha' is in eloquently stated, the word hell week.\ This is an ! , \alternative' bares a multitude important week for Greeks - it I of interpretations. Assuming, is filled with mystery, . ~however? an equally concemed tradition, rituals, and a sense of and interested tone for the pride in one's. chapter. The s_ole presence of \living and purpose of a fraternity is not to · learning\ houses, wouldn't then provide vntertainment for .the the students be deprived of a so campus. called \alternative if Delta I am not arguing that the Chi-- a \living and learning\ Greek system is perfect. It is house-- was \deposed\ from not, but what system is? within the Union College However, we do strive to campus? By substituting improve ourselves, and to . \Delta Chi\ with the name of contribute positively to both the system rurd th~ College. Greek, lHe is a uniqu·e, experience for each member. The members within one HThe any other \Greek'' house, it is apparent that the logic applied by the professor, reveals the pragmatgic intent of the SAC; ~hat is, to metamorphose a certain feature of the Union's present \look.\ . ln addition, the SAC's justification, for revoking the fraternity's housing privileges on the grounds that it bas fallen short of meeting the housing occupancy policy for the past three years is again paradigmatic of the slow and inexorable intent to alter the \annoying\ and\stigmatized\ features of the college's present community. Any type of organ-ization, club, etc. has certain requirements ot prerequiste for the recruitment of its membets. Would Union College, for example, admit any student as a member of its prestigious constituency without having the necessary academic and/or \individual\ prerequisite for students becoming, as Prof. Klein states, \identifying potential members.\ But even more important, should one be· recruited into a fraternity, for example, for the mere sake of simply filling up the house? What then would the emblem fixated on top of the main entrance signify? Thou_g·h Professor Klein stated the existence of International House, as an example of a coed cdlSly 0 li§ \theme house,\ the House last year was urged in a matter of three days to scavenger students in threat of losing the House. With all due respect to many of my friends there, the implcations of the above \not intended\ situation generated many problems. Nevertheless, the last and most significant point that should not be overlooked is that of Union's history. Page six of the Union College 1988- 89 Academic Register refers to the existence of fraternities and sororities, by proudly stating that \the first chapters of six national fraterniti,es were founded at Union, including the three oldest in the nation.\ Hence, forcing Delta Chi to move off campus is like an act of exile and detachment from the grounds on which the college's history flourished. But one wonders as to who is really being exiled? Is it the \living and learning: house which is struggling to preserve the foundation on which its triangular emblem has been rooted to the heart of the College's core, or is it the officaldorn of ,the College which rejects its heritage and history? Anthee Carassavas Class '89 slhconr~; Administration and other campas groups continue t~ appeal to us to sponsor e~enm and{~;r donate time · (for · example, ·Bloodmobiles and AIDS awareness progratns). It is often stressed that such · actions will_ be re.ceived fraternity/sorority share the same ideals and belief in that of which they are a part. Before judging Greeks as individuals, as a house. or as a whole, remember, you can neither fully appreciate nor rightfully condemn something you do not entirely understand. Sincerely, Kristen A. Santos '89 ~Jhe aat§lk 0 gne21t QQ Jl§ LAST CAIJIA. FOR THEME HOUSING APPLICATIONS Contact Office of Residence Life The Departments of· History & Philosophy Union College PROFESSORROYPOR'fER Wellcome Institute London, Great Britian 'Madness, Reason and the French Revolution'' Aprill4; 1989 4:00p.m. , Humanities Bldg., Rtn213 .All colloquia are open to the p_u.blic. Recpetion immediately following in the Humanities Lounge .. (Please note the time clumge_fmm 3:15 to 4:00p.m.) The 1875 Initiative \:

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 13 Greeks Work for Administration To the Editors: During my four years at Union it has come to my attention that fraternities and sororities often evoke negative responses· from other groups lUld individuals. Talk around ,campus JJegarding Greeks is usually centered around who is having a party, or which house has fallen from grace. Frequently, Greeks are in the fforefront when being linked witn unfortuate incidents. I w<>uld like to share with the Union community some :points about Greeks and Greek life which many people may not realize or consider. Rumors about the A.dmh1istration and/or faculty pla:nning to phase out fraternities and sororities circu'late constantly. Union CoUege has the oldest Greek system in America. In 1 &27, Delta Phi, Kaooa Aloha. ancl Sigma Phi were founded at Uaion. These three fraternities, known as the Union Triad, set the pattern for the fraternity system in the United States. Chi Psi, Psi Upsilon and Theta Delta Chi were also founclc<l at Union. The system has been an integral and active part of Union for 162 years and has grown in both strength and number. Something has kept this system running-- it is the young men, and more recently, the young women, who comprise these groups. 'The Administration often professes to be \working with\ Greeks. Although this may be tme, it is also often the Greeks \working for\ the Administration. The Administration and other campus groups continue to ap:peal to us to sponsor events and/or donate time (for example, Bloodmobiles. and AIDS awareness programs). It is often stressed that such actions will be re.cei ved positively by the Administration and our nationals. Most of us participate, but not because it \looks good.\ Each Greek organizaton supports a particular charity and contributes to it substantially. If we do not participate in such activities, it is usually because we have previously obligated ourselves elsewhere. Regardless of faculty, Administration and student body feelings, one cannot deny that Greeks are the foundation of social life on campus. Hosting parties is not a DUTY of fraternities. Rather, it is their prerogative to sponsor social functions in their homes. Most fraternity and sorority initiations occur spring term. During \Hell Week\ these houses are closed to non- members. Often one hears \There is nothing to do this weekend, 'Alpha Alpha' is in hell week.\ This is an important week for Greeks · it is filled with mystery, tradition, rituals, and a sense of pride in one's chapter. The sole purpose of a fraternity is not to provide entertainment for the campus. I am not arguing that the Greek system is perfect. It is not, but what system is? However, we do strive to improve ourselves, and to contribute positively to both the system and the College. Greek life is a unique experience for each member. The members within one fraternity/sorority share the same ideals and belief in that of which they are a part. Before judging Greeks as individuals, as a house, or as a whole, remember, you can neither fully appreciate nor rightfully condemn something you do not entirely understand. Sincerely, Kristen A. Santos '89 LAST CALL FOR THEME HOUSING APPLICATIONS Contact Office of Residence Life The Departments of ffistory & Philosophy Union College PROFESSOR ROY PORTER Well come Institute London, Great Britian ''Madness, Reason and the French Revolution\ Aprill4, 1989 4:00p.m. Humanities Bldg., Rm 213 All colloquia are open to the public. Recpetion immediately following in the Humanities Lounge (Please note the time change from 3:15 to 4:00p.m.) LETTERS Union College Overlooks Its History and D-Chi To the Editors: After having had three appeals to the firm. position upheld by tghe SAC's decision to revoke Delta Chi's housing privileges, one wonders if the claim espoused by the committee is indeed one of true \intent.\ The so-called \Delta Chi Case\ fl. as come to illuminate the \sketchings\ and planning of Union College's \future look.\ In effect, it is apparent that the issue is much broader and critical than what it seems to be on its superficial level. The issue is indeed not Delta Chi's housing problem, but the role of fraternities in general. Professor Klein in last week's Concordiensis stated that the establishment of \new common-theme coed group housing ... \ would serve as \an exciting housing alternative for the students.\ Though eloquently stated, the word \alternative' bares a multitude 1 1 of interpretations. Assuming, I ' however, an equally concerned · and interested tone for the presence of \living and learning\ houses, wouldn't then the students be deprived of a so called \alternative if Delta Chi-- a \living and learning\ house-- was \deposed\ from within the Union College campus? By substituting \Delta Chi\ with the name of any other \Greek\ house, it is apparent that the logic applied by the professor, reveals the pragmatgic intent of the SAC; that is, to metamorphose a certain featw-e of the Union's present \look.\ . In addition, the SAC's justification, for revoking the fraternity's housing privileges on the grounds that it has fallen short of meeting the housing occupancy policy for the past three years is again paradigmatic of the slow and inexorable intent to alter the \annoying\ and\stigmatized\ features of the college's present community. Any type of organization, club, etc. has certain requirements or prerequiste for the recruitment of its rnembets. Would Union Col<lcge, for example, admit any student as a member of its prestigious constituency without having the necessary academic and/or \individual\ prerequisite for students becoming, as Prof. Klein states, \identifying potential members.\ But even more imporLant, should on<' be recruited into a fraternity, for example, for the mere sake of simply filling up the hc.>Usc'! What then would the crnblem fixated on top of the main entrance signify? Though Professor Klein stated the existence of International House, as an example of a coed 0 Il§ 0 Jl§ \theme house,\ the House last year was urged in a matter of three days to scavenger students in threat of losing the House. With all due respect to many of my friends there, the irnplcations of the above \not intended\ situation generated many problems. Nevertheless, the last and most significant point that should not be overlooked is that of Union's history. Page six of the Union College 1988- 89 Academic Register refers to the existence of fraternities and sororities, by proudly stating that \the first chapters of six national fraternities were founded at Union, including the three oldest in the nation.\ Hence. forcing Delta Chi to move off campus is like an act of exile and detachment from the grounds on which the college's history flourished. But one wonders as to who is really being exiled'? Is it the \living and learning: house which is struggling to prt·~crv~· the foundation on which tb triangular cmbkm has been rooted to the heart of Lhc College's core, or is it the ollicaldom of the College which rejects its heritage and h . ') tstory. Anthce Cara .. -;savas Class '89 The 1875 Initiative

\ . \ Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS April 13, 1989 ' SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Superfund: Money for ~othing By KEVIN GARDNER Science & T'ecbnology Editor In 1980, the Congress of the United States passed the Compreher1sive Environmental Response and Liability Act, popularly known as Superfund. Since 1980, 38· of the 1,175 hazardous waste sites on the national priority list have been cleaned to the tune of $4 billion. In addition to the sites on the national priority list, there are approximatly 29,000 more sites on the low priority , list that need to be cleaned. Clean Site, a \Superfund facilitation\ group comprised of members from industry. the EPA, universities, and environmental groups, estimates that it will cost at least $30 billion to clean the remaining sites on the national priority list. To clean all of the hazardous waste sites in the U.S.., the bill is estimated to be $500 billion. · The goal of Superfund is to reduce the number of hazardous waste sites to zero. The scenario intended was this: MIXOLOGY What's tbat? A desire to earn and learn. Union College Dirdng Service is offering a course in the art of bartending for its banquet department. Sign up with the Managers of Dutch Hollow at the College. Center. The course will be offe.red on Tuesday Evening .April 25 from 7-9 at Hale House. NEW YORK STATE PEW CLUSTER AND UNION COLLEGE MINERVA LECTURE SERIES PRESENTS ''ON THE ORIGIN OF THE UNIVERSEn BY Professor Yervant Terzian Chair, Department Of Astronomy Cornell University ON Thursday, April 13th At 11:00 A.M. In The College Center Auditorlam \After decades of polluted grottndwaters, cancer-causing playgrounds, and fenced off warehouses, the United States is completely rid of .the hazardous waste sites that no one would claim. And what's more, during the last five years - as contracters excavated soils, burned solvents, and degraded sludges - EPA attorneys have been. even busier. The polluters have been identified and are paying for the deanup.s. Others have chosen to avoid conflict . witll EPA altogether and are quietly cleaning their sites.'; 'This, of course, is not the case. The public, the Congress, and the EPA all underestimated the number of sites, the clifficulty in cleaning the sites, and the difficulty in getting responsible parties to be penalized through the court. Hopefully, with reauthorization of Superfund by Congress two years away, the EPA will be able ·to force responsible .parties to either pay for the cleanup, or to conduct the cleanup themselves. I say make the bast2rds pay. DO.N'TSAY ANOTHER ~woRD ' ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT CHANGE ITa COOLITI NA~16~2t!~l8~FE FEDERATION Earth Day • Every Day EPA workers test a hazardous waste site .. Join tMousands of students and the National Wildlife Federatior:~ to COOL IT!, a student,led effort to slow gldbal warming-beginning in your commuriity; Sy designing. a 'local project and rallying the support of fellow students; you can make a measurable contribution to the solution df a global problem. And you can. do it by April22, 1990, the 20th anniversary of Earth Day. ' COOL WHAT? Man·made .pollutants are wrapping our planet jn a . blanket of gases that doesn't allow the sun's heat to escape. The outcorne~even in our lifetimes-could be an unprecedented rise in global .temperatures. The r~sults: oc:~ans inundating coastal cities worldwide, far:ms transformed .into dustbowls, food shortages and more wildlife species condemned to extinction. But those don't have to be the results. People created the problem. And one wa,y people can solve the problem is by ta~ing. individual actions, And you can show them how. TELL ME.HOW Become a ,part of COOL IT! by taking three steps. First, get other campus leaders to .join you in COOL IT!. We're in. this world together and that means environ· mental organizations, student government, Greeks, depart· mental clubs and others are part of the SQlution, too. Second, identify specnic local ·opportunities ·for you to slow global warming, Set a goal for your campus to recycle 50% of all cans, bottles and papet~ plant trees; decrease your university's energy consumption by a measurable figure: or get plastics out of the dining hall. You tell us the best way to make a real difference on your campus-in your community. And finally, once you've got people and ideas, join students nationwide in becoming part of National Wildlife Federation's COOL IT! project HOWCAN.NWF HELP US COOL IT1 ~·n connect you with other students around the country who ar.e working to COOL IT!. Help wittt ideas to make your project realiy work. Help you raise money for your campus. to fight global warming. On E~ Day 1990, · we'll fooos national attention on students' accomplish· ments. Vlle'll publish a directory .of all the COOL IT! P.rOjects~ Your resume will be in the COOL IT! job bank in Washington, D.C. And your project could be .awarded special merit status, earning $2,500 for y<lur school. If you area student.leader and want more information on how your school can start a certified COOL IT! project, write to COOL IT!, National Wildlife Federation, 1400 16th Street, NW., washington; D.C. 20036;2266 or . call.(202) 797·5435. EARTII DAY • EVERY' DAY · . NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION · •. . 1400 16tll Street NW, Washington, DC 20036·2266 \ I I

' ' l t \ I I Page 15 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Cruise Missiles: New Technology Upsets Nuclear Parity . . . I By CHRISTINE HONG Fotce ·has been exercised for centuries as a means to attain pol~tical goals. From the city states of Ancient Greec~ to the cQntemporary post-WWII era, statesmen have realized .the importance of force and have tQrned to the triilitaty to provide it. This military force has been .S·UCcessful at promoting national goals-- whether they be imperialistic or defensive. But the use of force is recognized as costly in both money and lives. It is for this reason that statesmen have often opted to practice the threat of force rather-than force itself. The notion behind such an intention is that it will deter potential adversaries from provoking conflict. However, it has only been within the past four decades that this political tool of 'threat' has gained an additional dimension: nuclear annihilati.on. . . With·in the conte~t of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. balance o.f power. nuclear deterrence has been responsible for averting direct conflict between the two superpowers for close to half of a. century. While many may question the safety and moral dilemma of the doctrine of deterrence, contemporary statesmen will agree that it has been successful. its success can be attributed to .the credibility and strength of each nation's nuclear arsenal as well a tile notion that the U.S. and tile U.S.S.R.--have reached general nuclear partiy. What happens when this supPQrt beam to the doctrine of deterrence (bilateral nuclear parity) snaps? This is the question that many military and national defense analysts are offering in light of the full-fledged arrival of the cruise missile. Stealth, speed, and 3ccuracy are all stressed in this state-of- the-art weapon Technically, the cruise missile is a delivery :system for nuclear (and conve11tional) warheads. It has been clefined as a pilotless, subsonic, non- ballistic missile C3pi:ble. of carrying a nuclear or non- nuclear warhead tltro11gh the atmosphere along a pre- programmed course to its target. A cruise missile's flight path remains within tile earth's atmosphere and i~ usually ground-hugging so as t() avoid detection. · Cruise missiles may be deployed in large nurnlJers, due to their relatively s111all size, from Virtually :any lallnching REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROF. GIF;FORD The Civil Engineering Department is conducting a reappointment review for Assistant Professor ~Gregory Gifford. All members of the college community who ha. ve knowledge of Prof. Gifford's teaching, professional activities, or college .service ~ct~vities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to tfie com~itttee. Anyone ~ho wants to provide input should contact Prof. Tom Jewell, chairman of the Civil Engineering Department. . ~' . CI:VIL ENGIN:EERS • The Union College Chapter of the ASCE is hosting- the 1989 New York State -Regional Student Conference on· April 28, 29, and 30. There will be a talk on the Panama Canal and on the Nott Memorial. A field trip.. wilt .be taken to .the. State-of-the-Art Schenectady Wa~tewater/Compost Plant, and if that doesn t grab you, there will be concrete canoe races and a steel bridge- building contest. For more information contact professor Phil Snow in the Civil Engineering Department. .ASME The American Society of Mechanical Engineers is hosting regional speaking competitioJ?. at Union College on April 21 & 22 from 8:30 am -noon: lt will be held in the · Auditorium of the Coll'ege Center. Regional Schools will send speakers to talk 9n. their senior projects and other topics relevant to Mechanical Engineering. For more information call Kevin Eialal at 393-6599. .,, .. . ,.' ~. ·platform. They may be launched from bombers, from land, from _ship carriers, or from submarines. The launching 'platform' determines the type of cruise missile .and its reference name. Cruise missiles released by bombers a;r.e referred to as ALCMs (Air-Launched Cruise Missiles). These missiles are usually released by B-52 or the newer B-1 bombers· (Soviet equivalents are referred to as Bear-H bombers). GLCMs (Ground-Launched Cruise Missiles) are those cruise missiles launched from land bases {mostly in Europe). And, finally • there are the most controversial Of the cruise missiles, the SLCMs (Submarine-Launched Cruise Missiles). The speed of the cruise missi'le, one of its military advantages, has been recorded as high as 500 nautical mites (55(:) miles per hour) for GLCMs. Here is an example from the New York Times illustrating the particular flight program ·that the cruise missile is capable of: \A cruise missile fired from a submarine off the coast of Newfoundland in Canada, for instance, could be programmed · to cross the beach just north of Cape Ann, Massachusetts, curve west to slip over· the Berkshire Mountains, turn south along the Hudson River, pop up over the Palisades, glide between the goal posts at Giants Stadium in the Meadowlands and explode over the 50-yard line. The flight would take about an hour.\ Moreover, the CM would be flying at just over 30 feet from the ground. It would be externembly hard to track by radar due to this, its high speed, as well as its many evasive tactics. On top of this, the cruise missile, unlike ballistic I missiles {although .proposed), can be instructed from any direction, to abort a mission. New Capabilities for the Cruise Missile Presently, engine designers are planning \prop-fan\ engines , that significantly extend the · missiles' r.ange by combining propellers with jet engine propulsion. In addition, the Navy has been working with smaller, more effective microprocessors that help guide cruise· missiles to their targets. Navy officials say the guidance systems would be able to interact with the military satellites and could alter a missile's course en route. Similarly, the Soviet Union has been building up the technology and number of their cruise missiles (presently the cruise missiles and bombers only represent 10% of the U.S.S.R.'s total nuclear arsenal), but they are not believed to be as, accurate or reliable as the U.S.'s. Unlike the case with their strong ballistic missile arsenal, the ! U.S.S.R. is deficient in cruise missile technology. During the 1980's, however, the Soviets have been fervently working to minimize the U.S.'s cruise missile superiority. A still more important development is a laser guidance system that will allow cruise missiles to obtain pinpoint accuracy. This precision is not particularly important for cruise missiles armed with nuclear warheads, but this augmented accuracy can make a missile with a non-nuclear warhead much more potent against enemy targets. Refer hack to the example of the cruise missile flying low over the northeastern terrain. Imagine that the cruise missile approaches the target: New York City and the surrounding area. The CM's accuracy can Continued on page 16 Union College sets talk on SUITOgate Motherhood Sehenetady, N.Y. (April6)- Bonnie Steinbock, a philosophy professor at the State Univeristy of New York at Albany, will speak on \Surrogate .Motherhood as, Prenatal Adoption\ at 3:15 p.m. Friday, April 21, in Room 213 of the Humanities Building at Union College. The free public talk is part of the Winter/Spring Term Colloquia sponsored by the Union College Department of Philosophy.

,-' Page 16 CONCQRDIENSIS April 13, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Cruise Missiles PROBLEM .OFHTHE WEEK Continued from page 15 alow it to glide between the goal posts at Giants Stadium in the Meadowlands and explode over the 50-yard line. The cruise missile that can 11 thread the goals post~ today will be able to hit the crossbar tomorrow. II This · increased accuracy would make conventional warhead cruise missiles much more potent than presently. It would be effective against any target In fact, the U.S. military has stated that such CMs could be critical in halting an attack by conventional Warsaw Pact forces in Europe where the recent agreed-to elimination of intermediate nuclear weapons will leave the West IQOre exposed to large Soviet conventional forces. The reluctance of using cruise missiles against the Soviet Union, and other nuclear club nations would be extinguished with the wide acceptance of non-nuclear CMs. Former Secretary of State Robert McNamara's notion of limited warfare in this day and age would be feasible under such circumstances. However, such conventional cruise missiles do raise other questions concerning the present balance ·Ofpower. ·~ The Verification 'Headacbe' The addition of significant numbers of cruise missiles with conventional warheads will undoubtedly complicate future arms control negotiations. The problem lies in that it is very difficult to discern between a nuclear CM and its conventi·onal counterpart. Under presently proposed arms agreements, a ceiling would be placed on the number of cruise missiles the US. and U.S.S.R. can deploy. If conventional' CMs are heavily deployed, there would have to be a method: by which to ensure that the \conventional version could not be converted into its. nuclear twill.\ Some proposals have been the use of tamper- proof tags that would be placed on each weapon. However. this method requires on-site · inspection.--something that the U.S. Navy and U.S.S.R. is not willing to offer. \On~site inspection would force our Navy to identify its ships carrying sea-launched cruise missiles. That would put an end to its practice of neither confirming or denying the presence of any nuclear arms on board.\ This issue of conventional versus nuclear warheads as well as the SLCMs (referred to as 'slickunis') bas been stated by The New York Times to be more of an obstacle to further arms agreements than testing in space. Many experts are claiming that cruise missiles offer a serious threat to the attained level of general nuclear partity between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. The U.S. military is keen on CMs and want to build up a significant arsenal of them. It is understandable why. They are the cutting edge of weapon technology. Unlike SDI and its proposed systems, the CM is ready to be mass produced. It is relatively cheap (each CM on average costs $1.2 million}, very efficient, and extremely agile. They can be deployed I.E.F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Monday, May 8, 1989. Proposals for student initiated research projcts must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S 100. Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovatiye\ proposals should submit them to the same office-on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S 100). · Guidelines with respect to the 'I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dean Terry Weiner, Acting Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50~00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with· human subjects. then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. easily and go undetected by satelli~e during deployment. They are, from a military standpoint, an excellent- investment. But what this large build-up would present is a serious threat to the doctrine of deterrence. Present detection systems stress the ballistic approa,yh for incoming warheads, Low-Oying cruise missiles evade this detection by bugging the terrain. Some have referred to this increas.ed technology as the most threatening .aspect. Air~Defense Initiatives are very weak. in the U.S.S.R. and even weaker in the U.S. From a more theoretical point of view, the cruise missile is destablizing due to the uncertainty that it imposes in the tp.inds of the two superpowers. For every stimulus, there is a response; The window .of vulnerabi1ity is widened. with a massive deployment of CMs, particularly SLCMs. For instance, the Soviet Union has become more apprehensive due to nuclear submarines carrying SLCMs. This Soviet fear could cause them to fire premptively in the . ease of escalating political tensions. In response, the U.S. has increased funding in and resources for over the recent decade due to the vertical proliferation of CMs in the Soviet Union. This has mainly ·been in Air Defense initiatives. The Pentagon is, installing updated radar along the Distant Early Warning line in northern Canada as well as in Bangor, Maine which are. expected t,o be Suppose the inside edge of a race track is a non-circular elllpse. If the track ·is of constant widfh~ must the outside edge be on ellipse? ~ake sure you justify· your ·answer. Solutions should, be submitted to Lois Bing in , , the Mathematlcs Department Office · . between the hours of 9 am - 11 om and 2 pm - 4 pm, Monday thFough ·Friday. The first correct sblution submitted will receive the weeklyte..n dollar prize. Correct sOI.l;ltipns will· be posted on the .buJie1in board outside Bail.ey 106. completed in 1990~ The Station in Maine is said to be able to detect rurcraft and ships from Greenland to Cuba. Similar steps are being made for the west coast in Idaho and the Mountain Home Air · Force Base in Idaho. Initial operations for this a;re scheduled for 1991. The Soviet Union has its SUA WACS (Soviet Unioit Airborne . Warning and Control S ysteill} in the new Soviet Foxhound that provide tlle U.S.S.R. with a \look-down shoot-down capability.\ It seems that in light of further proliferation ,of CMs~ and the new Stealth' bomber and advanced cruise misslles, the thicket of air defenses. will continue to grow. ?:lie Senior Ctass Of 1989 OfV.niOn Co{fege · CorcCia{{y Invites rou 'IlJ: r-Ilie SeniorS pring P; a{{ On 5tpri{ rtwenty-tEiglitfi, :J{jneteett. 1funtfretf.!lLtu{.'Eigfity-Wfne .9lt :A{jne O~CCocl( Yl.t 'Ilie 9(amaaa Inn Scfienectacfy, :1\&w ~o.rt fJlcfq.ts on Safe a.t tlie '.Bo~ Office CONCOROIENSIS .. CH·RONlCLE· NOTICE An Ad. hOc tenurability commltte'e has been appointed to .. investigate~ evaluate and report on the tenurabitify of Barbara Boyer, Associate Professor of Biology. Comrt'\ittee members are Professors Bradley Lewis (Economics; Chairperson), Jay Newman · (Physics). Robert Olberg (Biology), and Richard Shanebrook (Mechanical-Engineering): Any members of the College community who wish to c·omment on Prof. Boyer's teaching, professional activities, or college service ·activities may write or speak with any member of the committee.. · . FACUlTY RESEARCH DEADLINE·. The subcouncil on Rese.arch and Grants is now soliciting proposals fot facu~ty·research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean· Weiner·s office (SlOO-S&:E). the deadline for submission of • proposals is Monday May 8, 1989. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should · be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, . pl,ease remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should. also r.eflect . the best rates avoHable. · If your research includes work with human subjects, then .. the:. proposal must have preliminqry approval from the · . Human SubJects ·Research Committe before it can be · · funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants.

CONCORVIENSIS April 13,, 1989 . Monday through Friday between the hours of 2-4 pm 99¢ W:ILL GET YOU .•• Page 17 ~ncs of ' . I . . 99¢ (Reg.$1.1 Of . 99 ·¢ (Reg .. $1.30) 99¢ {Reg. $1.20) . . HAM'BURG-ER APRI:L 13-15 20-22 1 LlT.E.R OF SODA, ANY VARlETY GRrLLED CH'E:ESE WITOMATO , 8:00pm· ' s·o· STOP .BY AN:D:· GET THE MOS'T 'FOR J.OUR MONEY . 'UNION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153 \BOW IIIADE· ···· · .s- ···.1~····1· ·. ·o: ·o .. 0· · ··· ........ - ..... ·· .. ' FOR-COLLBIE. BY-RKING -EICEIDS.\ ' ' ' - - ' When my friends and I graduated from high school, we all took part -time jobs to pay for college. · · They ended up in car washes and hamburger joints, putting in long hours for little pay. Not me. My job takes just one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Yet, I'm earning $18,000 for college. Because I joined my local Army National Guard. . · They're the· people who help our state dun.·· • ng emergencies like hurri- canes and floods. They're also an _ important-part of our country's military defense. . So~ since I'm helping them do such an important job, they're helping me make it through school. As soon as I finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me~ cash bonus of $2,000~ I'm also getting another $5,000 for tuition and books, thanks to the N.ew GI Bill. . Not to mention my monthly Army Guard paychecks. They'll add up to more than $11,000 over the six years I'm in the Guard. And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay it back-up to $1,500 a year, plus interest. It all adds up to $18,000-or more -for college for just a little of my time. And that's a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you. THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-638-7600,* OR MAIL THIS COUPON. *In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam: 477~9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix); 773-6438; New jersey: 800-452-5794. Jn. Alaska, consult your local phone directory. , (l:) 1985 'United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense. All rights reserved. r----~-------~--·-----, I MAlL TO: Army National Guard, P;O. Box 6000, Clifton, N] 07015 1 I . OM OF I I NAME I I ADDRESS I : ClTY/STATE/ZIP I I AREA CODE PHONE : SOCIAL SECURITY NUMB.ER BI~RT .... H D ..... AT ... E w.-.-: I OCCUPATION I STUDENT 0 HIGH SCHOOL 0 COLLEGE I PRIOR MILITARY SE)<V\ICE 0 YES 0 NO I BRANCH .• . RANK AFM/MOS 'National Guard I I· ~~OAMA,TION'i6uVOt.UN1~YI'ROVIOf: INCUJOfHGYduRSOCW.SfCUAIIY~A • I ... leiU!<9FoRII<Ciull<GIV'\P0$1SO«LY\''\'S9C\l SECUA11Y\\\\'\ A1 c LJC 1 0049NP L v:=U&(.OtO.=l;t.:..~...:.TO.::~~~~-- ~--- ....... ---- J Guard Americans At Their Best.

·• \I> tc < Page 18 CO/NCORDIENSIS A,pril 13, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT - ·.~·- . 'p.· -_· --~ ~/. ·--·----------~--------------------------------------------~--------------------------- ARTISTS, POETS, AND OTHER STARS IDOL CHAT A Fieldhouse Beyond the fieldhouse made of brick is a wire fence protecting, and a boy dressed in blue throwing stones aginst the pavement. Did you ever want to be published? well, now is th etimel Submit poetry; .. short stories, and/or artwork to the IDOL magazine, .This is your chance ·Of a · · li.fetime to have people read your work and then have them want to meet· ··.you! We need some good material, but don't be intimidated by our name!. ···So, take part in the Idol by submitting your work to Box: 1116 by April17. We look fo:rwar-d to meeting you! In his hand, he grips and rolls the rock between his fingers feeling the weighty mass of grain. Throwing, the stone gyrates with nature · moving with force shattering fixed glass in brick. A broken window in a wall, green grass subsiding with wind; · and the boy empty handed, · skips homeward bound. Dina Schweitzer .-------lllliiB- .......... ---, 1 THE NEW 8.97 1 1 As XTC nicks the Cure to take the. top spot .in ·I the countdown, some unanswered questiOns remam. I Will the English take six -out of the nine slots next 1 week? Will the top five acts have the letter \C\ in I their name? What about Robyn Hitchcock? And is it I 1 Kraft Macaroni and Cheese, or is it Kraft Cheese I and Macaroni? Thank you. . A&E B:RIE,FS Slcidmore College. Saratoga Springs 584-5000 Thurs .• Fri., Sat. 8:00. \La Ronde\: A play about male-female relationships in the modern world. . Sounds like double dose .of Oprah. minus long commercial ·breaks. Yahoo. $5 for adults, $3 for students. pets free. Proctor's Schenectady 346-6204 Sat. 8:00. \Stockholm Chamber Orchestra.\ Yippie, Guaranteed to change your life. Call for · tickets or to complain about the programming. Capital Rep, Albany 462-4534 . Tonight through April30. 8:00. \The Immigrant\; \A funny. tender, and warmhearted story of · quiet heroes and a friendship that transcends all cultnral differences.\ Give me a break. $9 for · students, thousands for real people. Caffe Lena. Saratoga Springs 583-0022 Fri. 7:30~ Bill Morrisey; Big Bill has, get this. a \growing baritone and terse lyrics.\ But not . to worry, Mr. Morrisey generously \softens the gloom of his vision with a wry, knewing wit.\ Thank God. Free (because the Most E~cellent Bill is also a socialist). · College Center,. UnionCollege . I Fri., Sat., Sun. 7, .9, 11. \Eight Men.Out,\ or \Yet Another Brat Pack Extravaganza.\ Labe'l I Wed. 7, 9~ 11 \Witness for the Prosecution.\ Starting Thurs. 8:00. \AGNES OF GOD.\ Name Title I I 1. XTC The Cure 12\ Oranges & Lemons I Geffen 1 THIS HAS BEEN· A TEST, ONLY A TEST, OF THE AWARENESS OF A & E BRIEFS READERS ----BASED PROBABLY WRONGLY, ON THE ASSUMPTION THAT· YOU \Fascination St.\ Elektra I ACTUALLY EXIST .. NEVERTHELESS, WE AT THE ARTS DEPARTMENT WILL I 2. I a. I Elvis Costello Spike Warner . 1 CONTINUE TO WEEKLY OFFER YOU THESE MUNDANCE SCHEDULES BECAUSE, . QUITE FRANKLY, wE AREN'T DOING THIS TOAMUSE'YOU ANYWAY. . I 4. I s. The Connells Fun & Games Bros. I ~=============::::=========::; TVT I I s. I 1. I I 8. The Cult Morrissey 12\ Guadalcanal Diary Drivin' and Cryin• Sonic Temple \Last of the Famous .. \ Flip-Flop Mystery Road I 8 .. 97 Robyn Hitchcock Queen Elvis Elektra 1 I Sire I Elektra I Island I A&M I I I Eyebrow Raising Song 0' the Week'! The Dickies - \Dummy Up\ I I I I Notes: . -WRUC is back on the air from 6:30 AM • 4:00 ,_..... .... gnt~ of 1\PRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 1989 8:00pm U·N IO,N COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153 I. 1 AM all week. Requests? 3?0-6151. .. 1 • -Ves,~Shirtsa~ still avru~b~, Buy One! . ··-~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L.. - - - - - - - - - - - .... - -· ,. FINAL CALL FOR DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT RESERVATIONS- Friday April 14th at . 2:00 pm. A $12 value ... still only a card punch. Dinner served on Tuesday, April 18. IDOL WORKS,HOPS Wrn@on ?h~® ~[}\@] ~0®®0\ ~®m®~J® ~®mli®IT

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 ~--------A_R_T_S_& __ E_N_T_E_R_T_A_I_N_M_E_N_T __________ __ IDOL CHAT A Fieldhouse Beyond the fieldhouse made of brick is a wire fence protecting, and a boy dressed in blue throwing stones aginst the pavement. In his hand, he grips and rolls the rock between his fingers feeling the weighty mass of grain. Throwing, the stone gyrates with nature moving with force shattering fixed glass in brick. A broken window in a wall, green grass subsiding with wind; and the boy empty handed, skips homeward bound. Dina Schweitzer .--------------, 1 THE NEW 8 .. 97 1 1 As XTC nicks the Cure to take the top spot in I the countdown, some unanswered questions remain. I Will the English take six out of the nine slots next 1 I week? Will the top five acts have the letter \C\ in their name? What about Robyn Hitchcock? And is it I 1 Kraft Macaroni and Cheese, or is it Kraft Cheese I I and Macaroni? Thank you. I I 1. I 2. I 3. I I 4. I s. I s. I 1. I I s. Name XTC The Cure 12\ Elvis Costello The Connells The Cult Morrissey 12\ Guadalcanal Diary Drivin' and Cry in' Title Oranges & Lemons Label I I Geffen I \Fascination St.\ Elektra I Spike Fun & Games Sonic Temple \Last of the Famous .• \ Flip-Flop Mystery Road Warner I Bros. I TVT I Elektra 1 I Sire I Elektra I Island I A& M I I I I 1 AM all week. Requests? 370-6151. 1 -Yes, T-Shirts are still available, Buy One! I- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -· ARTISTS,, POETS, AND OTHER STARS Did you ever want to be published? well, now is th etime! Submit poetry, short stories, and/or artwork to the IDOL magazine. This is your chance of a !lifetime to have people read your work and then have them want to meet you! We need some good material, but don't be intimidated by our name! So, take part in the Idol by submitting your work to Box: 1116 by April 17. We' look iorward to meeting you! A&E BRIEFS Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs 584-5000 Thurs., Fri., Sat. 8:00. \La Ronde\: A play about male-female relationships in the modern world. Sounds like double dose of Oprah, minus long commercial breaks. Yahoo. $5 for adults, $3 for students, pets free. Proctor's Schenectady 346-6204 Sat. 8:00. \Stockholm Chamber Orchestra.\ Yippie. Guaranteed to change your life. Call for tickets or to complain about the programming. Capital Rep, Albany 462-4534 Tonight through Apri130. 8:00. \The Immigrant\; \A funny, tender, and warmhearted story of quiet heroes and a friemlship that transcends all cultirral differences.\ Give me a break. $9 for students, thousands for real people. Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs 583-0022 Fri. 7:30. Bill Morrisey. Big Bill has, get this, a \growing baritone and terse lyrics.\ But not to worry, Mr. Morrisey generously \softens the gloom of his vision with a wry, knowing wit.\ Thank God. Free ~ecause the Most Excellent Bill is also a socialist). College Center, UnionCollege Fri., Sat., Sun. 7, 9, 11. \Eight Men Out,\ or \Yet Another Brat Pack Extravaganza.\ Wed. 7, 9, 11 \Witness for the Prosecution.\ Starting Thurs. 8:00. \AGNES OF GOD.\ THIS HAS BEEN A TEST, ONLY A TEST, OF THE AWARENESS OF A & E BRIEFS :READERS ----BASED PROBABLY WRONGLY, ON THE ASSUMPTION THAT YOU ACWALLY EXIST. NEVERTHELESS, WE AT THE ARTS DEPARTMENT WILL CONTINUE TO WEEKLY OFFER YOU THESE MUNDANCE SCHEDULES BECAUSE, QID1E FRANKLY, WE AREN'T DOING THIS TO AMUSE YOU ANYWAY. ,__... __ gnrs of ob ;\PRIL 13 -15 ~ 20 -22 ~1989 8:00pm UNION COLLEGE THEATRE 370-6153 FINAL CALL FOR DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT IDOL WORKSHOPS Wrn®oo fJg~@ ~[f@] ~~@@[? RESERVATIONS- Friday April 14th at 2:00 pm. ~®~~@~@ ~@[]i]1J'@[f A $12 value ... still only a card punch. Dinner served on Tuesday, April 18. I q II

... CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 19 ARTS & EN'TERTAINMENT . . . - Albany B'lowout: Th:e Wailers and Third World By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Two of today's hottest reggae bands, Third World and The Wailets, will pack Albany's Palace theater on Friday, April 28. The Waiters, of Bob Marley and the Wailers fame, and Third World, are both promoting new albums. The Wailers' album will be their first since Marley's death in Third World 1981. Serious Business marks Third World's twelfth · release. Friday's performailce will showcase tracks from both new albums along with familiar favorites. While both bands are true to their Jamaican background, they do not ignore the influences ·of other music forms .. The attentive listener can detect traces of blues, pop, and rock in the Waiters' and $12.50 =GOOD FOOD, EXCEUENT MUSIC, HOT DANCING, THE BEST COMPANY. ., DRESS TO IMPRESS!!! . .._ .. . ~ : . . -. ', ;. '·. \. •• · ~·. - \~.I I 1 .. '· I 1 . ,. SENIOR SPRING BALL BUY TICKETS .~SOON!!! APRIL28@ Third World'.s music. The lyrics of both bands also demand notice for their poignant individual and societal statements. As one press release notes \Third World is a band of musical activists, actively seeking to create new sounds, and change their world through rnllsic.\ The same can be said ~f the Waiters. April 2&th's performance promises to be a must see extravaganza. For information call the Palace Theater Box Office at465-3334. ' \ .I • of ob APRIL 13 -15 , 2:0 -22 1989 8:00pm COLLEGE THEATRE The Rescuers ~ing Major League Troop~ Beverly Hills Bill & Ted's ... Leviathan She's Out of Contro1 Fletch Lives Dangerous Liaisons Disorganized Crime Say Anything Dead Calm Rain Man Dream Team Lean on Me Call Theaters for Show Times. UJAMMA PR'OMOTIONS.JNC •. ln Association With ' BlUE STEEL ENTERPRISE & L.U.C.C. ENT.ERPFUSE INC . Tickets Available: Present TICKtTRON REGGAE EXPLOSION ~~~~~~~~ 030 ADM. $18.00 Featuring Reggae Music Legends In Concert at The Palace Theatre Clinton & N Pearl Albany N.Y. thruway • Exit 23 '787-N Clinton Ave. Exit Friday, April 28th 8:00PM PALACE BOX OFFICE JAI-l SKATE SHOP (518) 587-6432 • (518) 587-3034

;I 'I CONCORDIENSlS April 13, 1989 Page 19 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Albany Blowout: The Waiters and Third World HOR,OSCOPES BY MM & K By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Two of today's hottest reggae bands, Third World and The Wailers, will pack Albany's Palace theater on Friday, April 28. The Wailers, of Bol:J Marley and the Wailers fame, and Third World, are botb promoting new albums. The Wailers' album will be their first since Marley's death in Third World 1981. Serious Business marks Third World's twelfth release. Friday's performance wiH showcase tracks from both new albums along with familiar favorites. While both bands are true to their Jamaican background, they do not ignore the influences of other mtisic forms. The attentive listener can detect traces of blues, pop, and rock in the Wailers' and $12.50 =GOOD FOOD, EXCEllENT MUS1C, HOT DANCING, THE BEST COMPANY. DRESS TO IMPRESS!!! ' i ,; \. I . ' SENIOR SPRING BALL BUY TICKETS SOON!!! APRJL 28@ Third World's music. The lyrics of both bands also demand notice for their poignant individual and societal statements. As one press release notes \Third World is a band of musical activists, actively seeking to create new sounds, and change their world through music.~~ The same can be said of the Waiters. April 28th's performance promises to be a must see extravaganza. For information call the Palace Theater Box Office at 465-3 334. of ob APRIL 13 -15 , 20 -22 1989 8:00pm COLLEGE THEATRE ARIES: Watch Cheersr Carla is trying to tell you something. TAURUS: Imagine the skellar with beer. And, curse your parents for having you too late. GEMINI: You're egocentric and rightfully so. So says M ... CANCER: They've made the play-off! It's finally O.K. to admit you're a Nuggets fan and your life long goal is to make pilgra.mage to Colorado. LEO: That role of spring break pictures might contain something you:r special someone shouldn't see. Negatives can hurt too. VIRGO: Look up words you don't know. LIBRA: Libra are yotf sure you're Libra? Maybe adopted? SCORPIO: That hair-brained scheme of planning an all-campus holiday in your honor may be going a bit too far. Or maybe not. SAGATARIUS: Applications are due .. you're late. you'll never get a job, summer internship, graduate school. Oh~ sorry ... flashbacks. CAPRICORN; Be crazy, Go wild. Turn off all the lights and switch your radio station. AQUARIUS: Criticize things you don't know anything about, people want to hear it from you! PISCES: If you don't stop to smell the roses now ·they might end up on you. Call Theaters for Show Times. UJAMMA PROMOTIONS INC. In Association With BLUE STEEL ENTERPRISE & L.U.C.C. ENTERPRISE INC Present REGGAE EXPLOSION Featuring Reggae Music Legends In Concert at The Palace Theatre Clinton & N Pearl Albany N.Y. Thruway - Exil 23 7B7·N Clinton Ave. Exit Tickets Available: TICKETRON 1-800-922·2030 TELETRON PALACE BOX OFFICE

. ' ·I ., i Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 CLUB NEWS STUDENT OFF CAMPUS JOBS:: Need helpers, · at least 10 CAMPUS PROTESTANT i people to do packing, loading, . MINISTRY ACTIVITIES .·. unloading - $ 6 · 5 0/hr. mostly • · days, vades on occasion - \Attention\ • Government Homes from $'1l (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. CaJil 1-602- 838-888'5 Ext. GH7090. Duplex V~·n, Vrankeli Ave. near cam}lu~, 3 BR up, 3 down, nice. Year lease. security, Avail. May '89. -A p latefu 1 of 1 starting date approximately . QlJestions discussion series June lst. Contact Mullen Bros .. wiU meet in the fourth floor . Moving & Storage Co., 247 lounge of the College Center . Altamont Ave., 382-1524, on tuesdays from noon-l2: 4 s. 8AMto SPM. Ask f.()r Fred or Bring yo1.1r own lunch, Bev. · \Attention\· - · Govemmellt ---Bible ·stu·-~y, 11 .. 30 . _ Yard work near tamp.us. · u Fl 'bl h. $6 OO'h . seized vehicles f:rom $100 .. 12:45, CC 205 on Thursdays. . •C. · exr · ePr foSurs Ul. · 1 · . . I'. r. . Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Bring lunch. · · ontact .· o . am · . . rnann at 370 3322 370 62 . 09· Chevys. Sut:plus l)l]yers gnide. -Sunday worship, 6-6:45 · - • · or · - · · · PM · h Full ti111e & part time 1-602-838-8885 Ex.t. A7090. m 1 e fourth floor lounge ~ waitresses needed. Inter- · · oftheCC. viewing for summer Gamma Phi Beta has · employment. 2 years exper- . 1 d h 1· ience, flexible hours. For appt. recent Y ~on two aw.ar s. T. e · call Mohawk Golf Club, 1849 McCormick Medallion award j, for being involved in the most ·. Union St.' 374-9121. extracurricular activities of all : Interviews will be scheduled the Gamma Phi chapters. And · between the hours of9AM and last weekend Gamma Phi Beta .· ~~zr and between 4PM and won the Silver Fork award for . having the highest cum in the Need 2 students to work province. ASAP through June, 15 to 20 · hrs. pet week - some Saturdays NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES - hrs. between- 7:30AM- 4:00PM - l)uties incl. typing, clerk work.. filing? mailing, Merton tapes-Friday. microfilming, simple da~a April 14th at Noon all are entry. Contact- Manpower at welcome to bring brown bag '· 374-7796. 1 lunch and listen to a Merton Need student for part · 1 • tape in cc 404B. · time computer aid drafting .. Monday Night Supper- job. Will work on P.C. Auto A il 17th 5 · c Cad program - $7. 50/hr. , pr . . . at p.m. m · C 203 Student to set homs. Contact · either use your meal plan or bring your own and join Bob · Conrad St. Pierre, GE, 385- Montana, Director of 2777. Intramurals and Assistant Basketball Coach for . Remem.ber· the WATS'ON See Profe.ssor Klein SS109 conversation and an informal presentation on \The Carry Over Value of Athletics to the Real World.\ BLOOM COUNTY Catholic Video Series-. Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students can be used in the following areas. at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. CLASSIFIEDS \Attention - Hiring!\ - Government jobs - your area: many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840 - $69,485. Call I- 602-838-8885 Ext. R7090. Looking for female to share small aprutment on upper east side of Manhattan - reasonable rent. Available June 1st through Sept. 1st. If interested, call Julie. Daytime 212-303-5103, Evenings 212- 772-7066. College Work Study positions available in Academic and Administrative Departments. If you qualify for work as part of yom financial aid award, contact Cindy Bouck in the Personnel Office, Silliman Hall for job referml. ... f'C£.4~£ MI/~5/JR&'I?... W~ 114Uie YOl!R CON7Rf!3l!T10N 11J.Q(IK c.rm.t \fJtorJM .WN7Y' fAM!t..Y ... CAMPUS NEWS 3 Respcmsible College Great Part~Time Oppor·· Students looking for a 2!.3 ' tunity Gain Exp~rlen~e bedroom sublet for summer. • aud Earn Mo.ney by · Res. Avail. Please contact . · working on Fortune 500 Kristen: 1-234-6387 or Nicole: , Companies' marketing · . 1-(802) 656.:6275 or write ·to · · programs on campus. 2-4 Union Cot~ege Box. #2161. · . Fledble hO'urs each week. --~~----~---..,.-~ ' 1 ~ ~pplica:~ons being . taken for Substantial -Reward offered :for inforll\ation leading . to · finding a missing stereo. 1 Luxtnan tuner, 2 Infinity speakers & 1 Technics Disc Player. -No questions asked! Chuck x4307. · · 1mmechate and ·Fall '89 :. openings. Call: 1·800-821- i 1543. . · Housesitter . ·avaHa!ble' · I May~August. Professional. For ,' information call 34()-2034. , Ask for Joan •.. -Dutch H·ollow Restaurant now serving: - Columbo- Frozen Yogurt - Vitari and NEW! Soft Ice Cream . . Berke Breathed ...W€U .. IffiV€ 711 t.OW/5!? YOUR {j/1/Af?Y, f05mON, · HOV!(,J.,, •. .1/NtJ eXf€CT!l770N5. ) Hc-e ~~~d. HE'G' 011, YOV~G J(f:JT WfiTCH!N& 13/?Yf/NT ANI? WIUIIRP fReT@Ii?IN'b 7lJ ee fR!ri/llflLY WITH OTJ-fttl?' /

CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Page 21 Phi Delta Theta, . I'm siticerely sorry aoout that wrong turn. Where the heck is M\'\\''' ?.n ... --.~ 1 sanyway .... Franz···· .• . - -' . . -932 Nach rechts ()Qer linkS bei der Kirche? Sind wir ge!).aU ·so d . · . ·1 . .. ·d?? N . .. umm~ w1e wrr ang sm . • . a ..• ja, gan:z heerzlichen Dank fuer • · alles. Sei noch bereit, Kraeftig auf die Pauk:e zu .hauent! R.S. To Ali· New ·Brothers of· Phi · Dell;3 Theta: Congratulations . · and welcoine to- the Brotherhood. Get psyched. ' -DerFuhrer. Shawna, Happy 21st! I Love U! -ME. Happy 'Birthday Bobbi! -Ricki Sean, I'm .melting without you! Don't you wish you knew with whon~c? Have fun in D.C. ~Ricki ~garita, Vamos a tenet un gran trime:Stre, pero tienes que dormir y quitar tu resfriado, ua~ Que viva JEspara! Colleen- You're an awesome little sister. I promise not to kill you're · cum. You're almost there. No • complaining!-! Love, your Big Sister GPB Pledges - You're awesome, only 7 1/2 more weeks .. Hang in there, Love, 302 Seword PI. Un al>razo,. Nancy · Congratulations to the new --\'--~~~~~~~-~ initiates of Sigma Delta Tail - To all my supporters who I am I you guys are amazing! · starting to 'hate: Roses are Red, • . Vialets $'e Blue. so t had no action, what's it to ALL OF : Denny & Jill, YOU!! Word of the day, Motion of the . ·day ... Cathy, Sedar at my house? Matzoh.' Ronnie; Ball so1:1porWonton soup? Just 8 l/2.left!?!! . . I Missaad fetch, 1 Thanks so much for having me · over! Iliad much fun with you! Let's do it again. . . · Love you -Beckl -Burgstein 89nus Tuus Bootus · LZ- Kell-er est-il? Peut etre il est le fin de 6 mois?? J'espere. que oui!! \' ·KC .. Desperately seeking someone, ·anyone!! Help \Virginia\ Out!! I can't take another 6 monf;hsH I Melissa, Dari, Sherri, Alfano, Palotta, Twerp and Litvack - ·B-B-Q at Kappa I Sig ... Composite 1 shopping ... Thanks for an ·. unforgettable night, I had' tb:e j best time. Dave will not boot alone. ·Babs- . Happy, Happy Birthday! LoveLina AGNES OF GOD TO 8 E PERFORMED Schenectady, N.Y .. (April4) --Union College Theater will present the play ~gnes of God at 8 .p.m. on April B. 14 aqd 15 andAprl120, 21 and 22 at Nott Memorial theater. . . The players ar:e Michelle Maratto, JobaQn~ Elizabeth Campbell and Marina Bemard. The performances are directed by Barry-Smitli. If you- have more t)laa 20 pft1es. to read, -\. ' do~'t'r~rget tke sunscreen. . . ··- <' ·, -~t~6'ilJ!llFll:·oteait_i';goo.F*·N'U; m'iilitwi~ (3n)'4w~4H4. · CAMPUS NEWS . To the Delta Ple~ges, · You guys are awesome! It's- almost time to congratulate . you! Delta Love! : Dave \I boot in bars\ Cohen -Socrates ·Duck, I'm suffering withdrawal. Help! Don't forget all the little , people you have left behind . {me!) Who are 100% behind · you no matter what you do! Miss you. Love Your Other Half. Ickey-Boner, , See you when the week is through, at which time you will be bwthers true. Don't forget we miss you! Love, Shrimp (& Apple. too!) Congratulations new -SDT initiates. You're the Best! Love .. ;the House GMC: Delta Gamma Pledges, You guys are great. ITH, The Sisters of DG Pete Scott: You are definitely a friend worth being proud of. Thanks. -R.A.S . Hi Barney! To The Best Little Sis- Wendy w. HAPPY Bffi.THDAY! I'mglad you are smiling. Love, Courtney Happy Birthday Janey B. I Love Ya! Scruffy, Jill Thanks for the best 18 months of my life. Love always, Scratched . Guys in Dav. 313, Thank y'all for being my home away from home this week. Love M.P. . ' How about Carmeilas on ·Saturday? Its been exactly four months today since we've been there last. ILU! Start arganizing for the Delta Gamma Olympics. I Love always P. At last we can see the earth asH really is. This smalL pale ball floating in the vastness of space. Clear.ly with limits. Vulnerable, fragile. For almost 100 years the Sierra Club has been fighting to protect the earth's fragile systems. We have suc- cessfully lobbied for laws to limit air and water pollution and to regulate poisonous toxic chemicals. We have won protection for swamps and meadows. rivers and mountains. deserts and prairies ... those natural . places which permit the earth to heal and renew itself. We have consistently been an effective voice for a world healthful for all its inhabitants. The unique power of the Sierra Club springs from our active grass roots membership ... volunteers who give freely of their time and expertise. If you want to participate in this work, or share in the satisfaction of it through a supporting membership. contact the Sierra Club, 7.30 Polk Street, San Francisco, CA 94109, (415) 776·2211. SIERRA I CLUB ! Northwestern Univ~ity Summer Session '89 · )·; . Thi$:or swim. I t I I I I I I I I J r I I l ' I ' . ' ~ 1003 Sheridan Road Evanston, lllinois 60208-2650 ' Save me a seat. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '89 catalog with financial aid ll11d registration lnformation.(avallable mid-March). . Pl~e send the catalog to D my·home~ tl my school. City .. . ZJp Zip 4 <..

i l ' ,. I, Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Women's Track Brave The Weather, Emerges A Winner By SHORTCAKE With ~nowflakes in the air these days, most of us are staying indoors, just waiting for the sun to shine until we attempt any outdoor exercise. Well, this isn't the case with the women's track team. Whether it's sunny or raining, or even snowing, these women are outside on the track, either competi-ng or practicing. Last week all the women's hard work began to pay off, as they took on Hamilton at their track on Wednesday, and competed in the Albany Invitational on Saturday. In the field, the women flexed their strong muscles as they helped win the meet for the women. Although specific results are not availa:ble, Alix ('pick on Sherri') Goldschmidt threw her way to a fi:rst in the shot put and javelin and a third in the discus. Beth ('can't sit still') Jewitt placed first in the discus, and two secollds in the javelin and shot. Natalie ('the jumper') Gifford started off on the right foot as siie brought Union a first in the lang jump and a second in the triple jump. Deb Danforth, takillg a break from her running events, came to the pit to take first irt the triple jump. It is tl:te depth found with our field women that help hold th . .e team together. The two relays of the day were exciting and tlirilling to watch. The 4 x l()Qm team of Parsons, Mills, McMiltian and Rika ('mono') Poor, after only a limited practice time, had an impressive showing,. finishing first with a time of 52_0, (Hey! You broke the 54!) The 4 x · 1OOm team of McMillian, Anselment, Williatns, and Erdman finished a close second with a time of 4:31 ;O, At the Albany Invitatianal, the women tracksters:11ot only had to compete against the other athletes, but tlley also were up against the brutal wind, snow and harsll weather that occurred last Saturday. Despite these conditions. the women showed their ~trength to finish in eiglltfl place overall. In the 200m, Denise and Meg ran powerfu I splits. clocking a 29.5 and 28.3 respectfully. Deb had a very 0 time of 12.5, Rike clocked a 12.9 and Meg a 13.5. In the 40m, Den,ise looked the strongest she ever has as she · crossed the line with a time of 65.6. The 4 x 100m relay team of Parsons. Danforth, Me MiHian and Poor ran strong : · · against tough competition to . achieve a time of 56.3. The field event women again showed their strength .as Alix . finished second in the javelin . (34.56m), fifth in the shot put {1 0.8m), and fourth in the hammer (27.08m). Kim ('Raggedy Ann #2') Renolds also had a busy day as she achieved the marks·.of 21.5 in . the discus and 18.25 in the ' javelin. Beth performed well in the discus with a 26.14m throw. After such a hard week of . competition, the lady tracksters have a week off before their next meet when th.ey will travel to Albany State to run • against Albany and Binghamton. . Women's lax: On· The· Move • By CARL FRIEDRICH, JR.'.with a rout of Wells; by a 17-0 score~ with fuirteen of those goals coming in the f'Irst half. \We have the potential to be a good team .• .it's (all) up to us\ commented coach Morrison on the outlook. for the women's lacrosse team this year, Since that time, the team has gone 2.._ 1 to raise theit overall record to 2 .. 2 for the 1989 season. After dropping the opening game to a tough Spdngfield squad (9-5), the ladies rebounded Witb a 12-8 win over Skidmore_ Though the scofe was relatively close, Union c'leatly was the more talented team.· However. they did not play up to their capability in both Morrison's and their own eyes. Sloppy passing and an \average\ effort on ground balls prevented the Dutchwomen from routing their local rivals severely. Last Ftiday night the team ·hosted R()chester and suffered an n -6 loss. Once again the passing game and ground balls were a problem, but this time it cost them. Despite the loss, Morrison felt the team played better when taking into account tbe high number of underclassmen in the starting. ranks. The team bounced back· In di vi d u a l1 y-, the Dutchwomen have looked to senior captain Coll1tney Lynch, DanieHe Lavigne; and junior Melissia Blake for on field leadership, Lynch, along with fellow midfielders Fiona Shukri ('89) a11d Megan Kennedy ('~JO),_ have provided much of the pffense thu$ far while also playing a vital transition· role, The team has also seen strong play from Wendy Kaplan ('9i), Kristen Ryan ('90), and Nicole Ang~lides ('89). Outside of the~e players the I~dies team .is fairly young, but not without talent. · · In the upcoming wee~ the team will travel to Siena and William Smith. · Coach Morrison feels confident that the mix of youth and experience will combine for on ·field success as the Dutchwome~ iron out the details in their game. the potential, as the coacb says, is there. Wat~:hing . how it develops will be a treat for both the players and fans this Spring. The women had a busy day last Wednesday, when they took ort the girls in blue from Hamilton. Traditionally, Hamilton and Union have had bitter battles on the track, and this meeting was no different. Despite the fact that it was a cold and rainy day, and the first meet of the season, the women pulled together to run, jump and throw their way to victory. The day started out with the 3000m run in which Lynne ('never slow dt)wn') Erdman brought the team a third place finish with a time of 11:51.4. In the 800m run, Sandy ('Sammy') Anselment and Deb ('special coffee') Danforth started their season with style as Sandy nabbed second place and Deb wasn't far behind. Denise ('Raggedy Ann') McMillian didn't let the weather bother her as she sprinted to a second place finish in the 400m run. The most popular race on the Union side seemed to be the lOOm run as we had three enLrants competing .. Candy ('fur coat') Mills edged out the competition. finishing first in 12.9. with Meg ('April fool') Parsons and Allison ('clueless with an L') Williams helping the cause with times of 13.5 and 13.8 respectively. Meg returned to the track once again to blow away the competition, finishing first in the 200m dash with a time of 28.1. busy day as she jumped 9 .24m 1 ~ in the triple jump, finished u. strong in the 800m run, and!~ was also a member of the 4 x: ·t;; lOOm relay team (wh.ich will be mentioned later). Lynne had an awesome day, frnislling the 1500tn in 5:18.3 desJlite the heavy winds. The l()Orn, a popular event yet agilin, was the scene af a race between Meg, Rika and Candy_ Candy ended up fourth overall with a Rob Ackerman volleys in match against Skidmore. .~a~gh.t ·· Stud~Iit$:· ;I~Q'~~Qt.'ft¢fl~rt¥t·~r:,;~,·~:·· · Non-Students: .$s;o for 5. cluses··~· Tai Chi is a Chinese £oVJll.·of&aea;~sec\~hat······ ·• uses slow movenl:ents\ . · .. ·.. ·.. ·· · ·· . ··. ··· ···.· · ·· .. · .. · ..... ·· ·. .· ·······. ·. · and it t~~lrerrv~£rb~ttat~~f' If -o--=:- -- -. - ~ --- -:- • .;:-- -- - -- - .. ~ YOU DON'T HAVE TO DO IT ALONE \ \ \ \ ~@~

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS April 13, 1989 Women's Track Brave Emerges The Weather, A Winner By SHORTCAKE With ~nowflakes in the air these days, most of us are staying indoors, just waiting for the sun to shine until we attempt any outdoor exercise. Well, this isn't the case with the women's track team. Whether it's sunny or raining, or even snowing, these women are outside on the track, either competing or practicing. Last week all the women's hard work began to pay off, as they took on Hamilton at their track on Wednesday, and competed in the Albany Invitational on SatiD\day. In the field, the women flexed their strong muscles as they helped win the meet for the women. Although specific results are not available, Alix ('pick on Sherri') Goldschmidt threw her way to a first in the shot put and javelin and a third in the d,iscus. Beth ('can't sit still') Jewitt placed first in the discus, and two seconds in the javelin and shot. Natalie ('the jumper) Gifford started off on the right foot as she brought Union a first in the long jump and a second in the triple jump. Deb Danforth, taking a break from her running events, carne to the pit to take first in the triple jump. It is the depth found with our field women that help hold the team together. The two relays of the day were exciting and thrilHng to watch. The 4 x lOOm team of Parsons, Mills, McMillian and Rika ('mono') Poor, after only a limited practice time, had an impressive showing, finishing first with a time of 52.0. (Hey! You broke the 54!) The 4 x lOOm team of McMillian, Anselment, Williams, and Erdman finished a close second with a time of 4:31.0. At the Albany Invitational, the women tracksters not only had to compete against the othe-r athlrtcs, but they also were up against the brutal wind, snow and harsh weather that occurred last Saturday. Despite these conditions, the women showed their strength to finish in eighth place overall. In the 200m, Denise and Meg ran powerful splits, clocking a 29.5 and 28.3 respectfully. Deb had a very 0 busy day as she jumped 9.24m ~o in the .triple jump, finished~ strong m the 800m run, and ~ t- was also a member of the 4 x .tn time of 12.5, Rike clocked a 12.9 and Meg a 13.5. In the 40m, Denise looked the strongest she ever has as she crossed the line with a time of 65.6. The 4 x 100m relay team of Parsons, Danforth, Me Millian and Poor ran strong against tough competition to achieve a time of 56.3. The field event women again showed their strength as Alix finished second in the javelin (34.56m), fifth in the shot put (10.8m), and fourth in the hammer (27 .08m). Kim ('Raggedy Ann #2') Renolds also had a busy day as she achieved ~he marks of 21.5 in the discus and 18.25 in the javelin. Beth performed well in the discus with a 26.14m throw. After such a hard week of competition, the lady tracksters have a week off before their next meet when they will travel to Albany State to run against Albany and Binghamton. Women's Lax: On The Move By CARL FRIEDRICH, JR. 1 .witharoutofWclls,bya17-0 \We have the potential to be a good .team ... it's (all) up to us\ commented coach Morrison oil the outlook for the women's lacrosse team this year. S.ince that time, the team has gone 2:.. 1 to raise their overaU record to 2-2 for tbe 1989 season. After dropping the opening game to a tough Springfield squad (9-5). the ladies rebounded with a 12-8 win over Skidmore. Though ~he score was relatively close, Union clearly was the more talented team. However, they did not play up to their capability in both Morrison's and their own eyes. Sloppy passing and an \average\ effort on ground balls prevented the Dutcbwomen from routing their local rivals severely. Last Friday night the team hosted Rochester and suffered an 11-6 loss. Once again the passing game and ground balls were a problem, but this time it cost them. Despite the loss, Morrison felt the team played better when taking into account the high number of underclassmen in the starting ranks. Tile team bounced back score, with thirteen of those goals coming in the first half. Individually, the Dutchwomen have looked to senior captain Courtney Lynch, Danielle Lavigne, and junior Melissia Blake for on field leadership. Lynch, along with fellow midfielders Fiona Shukri ('89) and Megan Kennedy ('90), have provided much of the offense thus far while also playing a vital transition role. The team has also seen strong play from Wendy Kaplan ('91), Kristen Ryan ('90), and Nicole Ange:lides ('89). Outside of these players the ladies team is fairly young, but not without talent. In the upcoming week the team will travel to Siena and William Smith. Coach Morrison feels confident that the mix of youth and experience will combine for on · field success as the Dutchwomen iron out the details in their game. the potential, as the coach says, is there. Watching how it develops will be a treat for both the players and fans this Spring. The women had a busy day last Wednesday, when they took on th.e girls in blue from Hamilton. Traditionally. Hamilton and Union have had bitter battles on the track, and this meeting was no different. Despite the fact that it was a cold and rainy day, and the first meet of the season, the women pulled together to run, jump and throw their way to victory. The day started out with the 3000m run in which Lynne ('never slow down') Erdman brought the team a third place finish with a time of 11:51.4. In the 800m run, Sandy ('Sammy') Anselment and Deb ('special coffee') Danforth started their season with style a<> Sandy nahhC'd second place and Deb wasn't far behind. Denise ('Raggedy Ann') McMillian didn't let the weather bother her as she sprinted to a second place finish in the 400m run. The most popular race on the Union side seemed to be the I OOm run as we had three entmnts competing. Candy ('fur coat') Mills edged out the competition, finishing first in 12.9, with Meg ('April fool') Parsons and Allison ('clueless with an L') Williams helping the cause with times of 13.5 and 13.8 respectively. Meg returned to the track once again to blow away the competition, finishing first in the 200m dash with a time of 28.1. lOOm relay team (which will be mentioned later). Lynne had an awesome day, finishing the I500m in 5:18.3 despite the heavy winds. The lOOm, a popular event yet again, was the scene of a race between Meg, Rika and Candy. Candy ended up fourth overall with a Rob Ackerman volleys in match against Skidmore. TAl CHI CLASS Tuesdays From 4 pm To 5 pm Taught by Dr. Wang Sheng Qiu from China.. Students: $20 for 5 classes Non ... Students: $30 for 5 classes Tai Chi is a Chinese form ofex:ercise that uses slow movements. It helps you to relax~ and it improves balance and concentration. Ifyou are interested in the class, please contact Linda Patrik (e;xt. 6240) in the Philosophy Department . By Friday~ April 14th ~-- __ --:.-----=--- -.:.-~-~-:- -- --- - ~ -------- -- -:;:...-;- - \ \ \ \ YOU DON'T HAVE TO DO IT ALONE ~&/~

0 e [) ''• r 1 l t l l s 'S r .. e d 1 It i 11 • - 13, 1989 Page 23 Ey scorr ADAMS Sp()rts. Editor Senior_1'o11y Amarante, who started off the season by batting' .6~2 in leading the baseball . tee1rt1 to three road victoties, is this week's Athlete Of The Wee:k~ A gradJJate of St. Anthony's Hfcrh· School iil Bohemia NY 6- . . - ' . , t the left ,fielder is the anchor of the Dutchman lineup. Jle pr()ved that in a double head.er against Onoonta last weekend. He went 5 for 8 with a double, ttiple, and three RBI'S in the two gllllles, and the Dutchmen . 11eeded every bit of it as they . wen both games by a score ef · 6 .. 5; In a make~up game against ,Albany on Monday, Tony continued his hot streak, gobtg 4· 5 with four singles and three REI's. Remarkably, he played all three games on a tender rightanlcle; · Tcriy's performanc~ so far is not surprising; he has led the team in RBI's the past two seasons (27 and. 22, respec.tively), and has hit .418 and .388. He is expected to provide much of the power and , ,leadetship 'the Dutchmen will need to have a successful season this year; they w.ill try to improve on their 3-0 record in a double header against Norwich on Saturday. Con:gratulations, Tony-- keep up the good work! ·INDOOR TRACK ROUNDUP By aANS SCllWARZ · · The fonowing Dutc:runen.qualified. for the New York SJate In(loot Tra!X & Fiel4 ChampiQnships: Stev¢n.Ha)'CS · · 4(Xlmeters 38;0 .l\1eg Pars011s . Jeff Simkins · Sandy Anselrnent .Sher.i Cargile L.izDobbs CbipSilvet ·Jim Sweet A1ix Goldsc)un~dt .Matt G11yette 400 meters 52;(1() 400meters 1:1)2.40 5()() meters 1:09;04 highjump L90m i'500 in~teni 5:08.2 100(1 meters 3: 1'8.10 $5tnhurdles 9.4 high jump 1.~4m 6th place pen~thalon. 3337 pts. 5th place . shotput 13.74m 20/t weight ll.2lm shotput 14.47m The follow.irig Dutchmen qualified for the.N.Y.State Indoor Track &Field Champi011ships & set school n:cords in doing so: Meg Parsons · 800 meteJ:S · 2:26;87 RJkaPoor· 400 meters 1:01.35 state champion S~dy At!~elme;ttt lOOOmeters 3:09.37 Mix. Goldschmillt sbot put ll.SSm Meg Par.s.oos Denise McMillan Alison Williams Lynne En!mll!l 4x400m relay 4:17.13 RikaPoor MegParsoos Lynne'Er~ll!l Sandy Au~elnient 4x800m relay 9:56.40 As tllere w.aso()o~cewalk at the statem~t, it:.snOll}d bemcmtionedthat r.m Camp<lliplaced fust and set a meet record at.the Collegiate Tm.ckConference Me~ with a. time of 16:32.8. · Final men's record 22-33 Final women's record 34-35·1 Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER I have a game that you'll enjoy. That is, a game that real $ports fans-.. particularly baseball fans-·· will enjoy. It is called Rotisse1ie Baseball, and it has becom.e a craze thoughout the country. Now I know that some of you readers out there are saying, \this guy is copying a .St()ry off of the cover of the April 3, 1989 issue of TJte . Sporting News. Well, for yollr in:fonnation, I wrote those two articles for Barry Smail. The only problem is l:.hat he does11't know it yet. Anyway, fer those of you who are unfamiliar with tile 'sport' of Rotisserie Baseball, let me ftll yo11 in with some of the basics. There are two . points that you should be aware of b€\fore I begin, however. They are, 1) you don't break a sweat, that is unless running to get the morning newspaper is .a chore in itself, and 2) you don't use a kitchen appliance.;. Beyond those pointS, the rest is either confusing or simple. I have yet to decide myself. BasicaHy, Rotisserie Baseball is an. armchair sport, a game that keeps you in the bouse with a remote control in one hand and; tile sports section of the <USA Today> in the other. It is played ·and won through statistics, plain and simple. Ironically, most Major League players say, that their statistics don't mean anything; that the team is what comes firs~ and foremost. In Rotisserie, there is no team. There are only players. Each Rotisserie league has a number of 'owners'. Each owner contributes a small sum of money to a pool, with the winners receiving what is left ov~r after expenses. The owners, usually seven or eight, tbe11 hold an 'auction\ a semi- draft of Major League players, hut only from one league, eitber the American or National. Players are purchased by the highest bidding owner, but you can't bid too high because you have to fill 25 roster spots, and you hav.e a limited amount of money to spend. Each completed team mllsl consist of six infielders (aile starter at each position, one first/third baseman and one seco.nd baseman/ shortstop) two catchers, five outfielders, one designated hitter (in the American League), six starting pitchers, and four relief pitcllers. You can also have a reserve of four players who can be used in .case of injury or just iil place of a slumping 'starter'. Tile rimkings of each team are detenninedjn eight different statistical categories. The all important .categories are: composite batting average. borne runs, RBI's, stolen bases, composite earned run average, composite pitching ratio, ·wins, and saves. Your pitching ratio is simply your staffs [hits + walks]/ innings. From these stats of equal weight, the standings are fotmed in a simple manner. In a league with the eight owners, the team with the most home runs would get eight points, the team second in homers gets seven and so on. The team with the most points at the end wins the league. There, very simple, right? All the owners have to do is compile their own statistics. They can trade between each other, but the roster spots must be filled by players of the same positions. Injury situations are very complicated and I don't know what to do about them, but the. owners of each league · can decide on their own. One thing for potential owners out there. This is not an easy game. There is a great deal of research and hard work involved. Trades have to be swung with some moxy, and you have to be aware of every single lineup change. You not only need to know what is going on in your own Jeage, but you also have to know what is happening in the Majors. But it is a great deal of fun! If anybody is interested in setting up a league~ drop me a line at Box 212, and I'll see what we can put together. QJ:nncuril itnsi.s SPORTS S:PORTS AC.cO·RD:ING T·O GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor While pondering a topic for this week, I remembered an argument between a male and a female athlete that occurred in an English class when I was in high school. She played field hockey, he playe4 fOQtball. In a rather heated fashion, ,they argued over the importance of sports in preparing one for life. · They focused on the different adversities that their teams had· to face, and how ·Often 'they played and practiced. Both supported the fact that some important values and habits can be learned from participating in sports. However, she had to defend .her sport as a viable source of lessons for life. I was embarrassed by my obstinate teammate's overlooking the fact that discrediting the other spart's ability to teach valuable lessons for life in no way validates the claims that his sport is the best to do so. I had heard the same football coach place emphasis on hard work and learning from your mistakes. He applied how these two ideas can improve performance, not only on the field, but also later in life. Since these were concepts applicable to both sports and Life, why should it matter what sport or activity one is involved in? My teammate was not able to understand this simple distinction. However the field hockey coach pr:pared her team for games, or .practice, or Hfe, ·I cannot say. Yet, I doubt it could be very different from the values the football coach drilled into us every day. The job of a coach is, ,to get his or her team to perform to their utmost. That does not necessarily imply success is solely rated by the nurn her of wins, rather it is based on performing as well as possible and improving through hard effort. Learning the methods for success is not limited to whether or not the particular, proper techniques needed to achieve in a certain sport are mastered. Rather, it is in the ·ability to adapt the ways in which these techniques have been ingrained. Participation in sports is a very beneficial teacher for life skills, no matter what sport one is involved in. I ' l 1 ~.·

~ ! ,, ' f ' l I l l I I I I ' By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Senior Tony Amarante, who started off the season by batting .692 in leading the baseball team to three road victories, is this week's Athlete Of The Week. A graduate of St. Anthony's High School in Bohemia, NY, the left fielder is the anchor of the Dutchmart lineup. He proved that in a double heaqer against Oneonta last weekend. CONCORDIEN He went 5 for 8 with a double, triple, and three RBI's in the two games, and the Dutchmen needed every bit of it as they won both games by a score of 6-5. ln a make-up game against Albany on Monday, Tony continued his hot streak, going 4-5 with four singles and three RBI's. Remarkably, he played all three games on a tender right ankle. Tony's performancr. so far is not surprising; he has led the team in RBI's the past two seasons (27 and 22, respectively), and has hit .418 and .388. He is expected to provide much of the power and leadership the Dutchmen will need to have a successful season this year; they will try to improve on Lheir 3-0 record in a double .fieader against Norwich oB Sattrrday. Congratulations, Tony-- keep up the good work! INDOOR TRACK ROUNDUP By HANS SCHWARZ The following Dutchmen qualified for the New York State Indoor Track & Field Championships: Steven Hayes 200 meters 38.0 Meg Parsons Jeff Simkins Sandy Anselment Sheri Cargile Liz Dobbs Chip Silver Jim Sweet Alix Goldschmidt Matt Guyette 400 meters 52~00 400 meters 1:02.40 500 meters 1:09.04 high jump 1.90m 1500 meters 5:08.2 lOOOmeters 3:18.10 55m hurdles 9.4 high jump 1.84m 6th place pentathalon 3337 pts. 5th place shot put 13.74m 201# weight 11.21m shot put 14.47m The following Dutchmen qualified for theN. Y.State Indoor Track &Field Championships & set school records in doing so: Meg Parsons 800 meters 2:26.87 Rika Poor 400 meters 1:01.35 state champion Sandy Anselment 1000 meters 3:09.37 Alix Goldschmidt shot put 11.58m Meg Parsons Denise McMillan Alison Williams Lynne Erdman 4x400m relay 4:17.13 RikaPoor Meg Parsons Lynne Erdman Sandy Anselment 4x800m relay 9:56.40 As there was no racewalk at the state meet, it should be mentioned that Jim Campoli placed first and set a meet record at the Collegiate Track Conference Meet with a time of 16:32.8. Final men's record 22-33 Final women's record 34-35-1 Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER I have a game that you'll enjoy. That is, a game that real sports fans-- particularly baseball fans-- will enjoy. It is called Rotisserie Baseball, and it has become a craze thoughout the country. Now I know that some of you readers out there are saying, \this guy is copying a story off of the cover of the April 3, 1989 issue of TJte Sporting News. Well, for your information, I wrote those two articles for Barry Smail. The only problem is that he doesn't know it yet. Anyway, for those of you who are unfamiliar with the 'sport' of Rotisserie Baseball, let me fill you in with some of the basics. There are two points that you should be aware of before I begin, however. They are, 1) you don't break a sweat, that is unless running .to get the morning newspaper is a chore in itself, and 2) you don't use a kitchen appliance. Beyond those points, the rest is either confusing or simple. I have yet to decide myself. Basically, Rotisserie Baseball is an armchair sport, a game that keeps you in the house with a remote control in one hand and the sports section of the <USA Today> in the other. It is played ·and won through statistics. plain and simple. Ironically, most Major League players say, that their statistics don't mean anything; that the team is what comes first and foremost. In Rotisserie, there is no team. There are only players. Each Rotisserie league has a number of 'owners'. Each owner contributes a small sum of money to a pool, with the winners receiving what is left over after expenses. The owners, usually seven or eight, then hold an 'auction', a semi- draft of Major League players, but only from one league, either the American or NationaL Players are purchased by the highest bidding owner, but you can't bid too high because you have to fill 25 roster spots, and you have a limited amount of money to spend. Each completed team must consist of six infielders (one starter at each position, one first/third baseman and one second baseman/ shortstop) two catchers, five outfielders, one designated hitter (in the American League), six starting pitchers, and four relief pitchers. You can also have a reserve of four players who can be used in case of injury or just in place of a slumping 'starter'. The rankings of each team are determined_in eight different statistical categories. The all important categories are: composite batting average, home runs, RBI's, stolen bases, composite earned run average, composite pitching ratio, wins, and saves. Your pitching ratio is simply your staffs [hits + walks]/ innings. From these stats of equal weight, the standings are formed in a simple manner. In a league with the eight owners, the team with the most home runs would get eight points, the team second in homers gets seven and so on. The team with the most points at the end wins the league. There, very simple, right? All the owners have to do is compile their own statistics. They can trade between each other, but the roster spots must be filled by players of the same positions. Injury situations are very complicated and I don't know what to do about them, but the owners of each league can decide on their own. One thing for potential owners out there. This is not an easy game. There is a great deal of research and hard work involved. Trades have to be swung with some moxy, and you have to be aware of every single lineup change. You not only need to know what is going on in your own leage, but you also have to know what is happening in the Majors. But it is a great deal of fun! If anybody is interested in setting up a league, drop me a line at Box 212, and I'll see what we can put toge.ther. Page 23 illnnrJlrbiensis SPORTS SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor While po11dering a topic for this week, I remembered an · argument be~ween a male and a female athlete that occurred in an English class when I was in high school. She played field hockey, he played football. In a rather heated fashion, they argued over the importance of sports in pFeparing one for life. They focused on the different adversities that their teams had to face, and how often they played and practiced. Both supported the fact that some important values and habits can be learned fmm participating in sports. However, she had to defend her sport as a viable source of lessons for life. I was embarrassed by my obstinate teammate's overlooking the fact that discFediting the other sport's ability to teach valuable lessons for life in no way validates the claims that his sport is the best to do so. I had heard the same football coach place emphasis on hard work and learning from yoUI mistakes. He applied how these two ideas can improve performance, not only on the field, but also later in life. Since these were concepts applicable to both sports and life, why should it matter what sport or activity one is involved in? My teammate was not able to understand this simple distinction. However the field hockey coach prpared her team for games, or practice, or life, I cannot say. Yet, I doubt it could be very different from the values the football coach drilled into us every day. The job of a coach is to get his or her team to perform to their utmost. That does not necessarily imply success is solely rated by the number of wins, rather it is based on performing as well as possible ~wd improving through hard effort. Learning the methods for success is not limited to whether or not the particular, proper techniques needed to achieve in a certain sport are mastered. Rather, it is in the ability to adapt the ways in which these techniques have been ingrained. Participation in sports is a very beneficial teacher for life skills, no matter what sport one is involved in. --.:. P '·' - 0 •• ~~',,·· .. ,-:;·,'1ti~ .••.... · - . ' ~: . - () ·. .. ' R . . . .•. N· s ·-I p 0 N 0 R T

I I ' ,, 'I ,, I '}, ,, I !: ' I • j,,,, .,..~, , ~~·*'~-,, ~-·· ······\\\''·~ ~ ~· Men's baseball won 3 road games this week. Women's rugby kicks ,off t-his week. Ap~il13; 1989 Men's Lax Bows To Siena By BILL MAFFIE The Men's Lacrosse team not only battled the Siena team, but also fought very difficult fie1d conditions and bad weather in a 10-4 loss at Siena on Thursday. The rainy weather which was only an inconvenience to us as we trudged from class to class proved to be a hindrance to the turf-oriented lacrosse team. Due to the ·fact that the team is more accustomed to playing on astroturf, a surface which is barely affected by inclement weather, they· found the going very sluggish and sloppy on Siena's natural grass field. After making the bus trip to Siena, the team arrived to a lacrosse player's nightmare; a muddy, puddle-ridden field. These conditions slow the game down considerably, not allowing for sharp cutti11g, and also contributing to sloppy play. This fact woul-d not matter so much if the Union team were used to playing on grass, however since all were accustomed to practicing and playing on turf, tlte \poor cond~tions proved to be the equalizing factor agairust a less skilled, but better adjusted Siena team. Upon recognizing tllat the conditions would adversely affect his team, Coach Chuck Priore suggested post)J\onement of the game, in ordei\ that it could be played under more favorable conditions. The Siena coach denied this reqmest, and reportedly indicated that if Un}on did not wish t() play. they would be forced to forfeit the game. Placed in this uncomfortable situation, the team went ahead and played, only to find the conditions unmanageable. Starting go'alie Paul Garnett, back in net after a one game rest, commented that the crease was so muddy that his feet were barely visible. Though the team made a valiant attempt, they were unable to adjust to. the conditions, and the weaker Siena team capitalized, pumping in ten goals to Union's four. This game was the first one in which the team, which was averaging just over ten geals per game, was held to so few goals. Hopefully, the team will have better weather for their games at Middlebury on the 12th, and home against St. Lawrence on the 15th, and Williams on the 19th. · ' \ ·' ,• Men's Track Starts Strong Silver Paces Pack By HANS SCHWARZ In the first outdoor track meet of the year, the Union mens' track team· travele-d to Hamilton College. Behind the outstanding perfonnance of the mens' track and field athlete of the week, junior co,..captain Chip Silver, the men took on the formidable challenges of the weather as well as the competition. Chip placed first in the high jump with a jump of 1.85m, as well as pa.;:ing first and qualifying for th~ outdoor state meet in the 110m hurdles with a personal best time of 15.9. The Union team could not have done well though, without the fine efforts turned in by many other Dutchmen. Among mose was Steve Hayes, also a double first place finisher, with wins in the lOOm in 11.3 and 200m in 23.2. Additionally, intermediate hurdlers Jeff Simkins and Rich Zembeck, finished first in 58.8 and third in 1:01.8, respectively. A typically strong perfomiance was shown by Michael Martinez as he finished the 3000m steeplechase 10:38.6, earning 2nd place. Also Bob Lindyberg earned third in the 400m with a time .of 53.3, closely followed by Will Allen in 53.4. Freshman rookie Sascha L~wis surprised some as he was the top Union cornpetitior in the 1500m in 4:32.6, followed by Hans Schwarz in 4:40;8 and Doug Martocci in 4:4L9. In the 800m, another freshman rookie, Greg Barrett, performed well, finishing first for Union in, 2:11.8, followed closely by PQug Martocci in 2:14.1. In the long jump, ·Art Braga ieaped into seconll place with 6~28m. Some other Dutchmen also placing in field events were Cliff Genge and Keith Re:ynolds in t)le shot put with second (11 .. 65) and third (10.47), respectively. This meet proved to be a good way for the Uni~n men to get their feet wet in outdeor · competition. It showed that the potential for an extremely successful season is available, waiting to be tapped. Beginning Saturday, ·the men have five meets in two weeks, two of which are at home. Tbey would very much appreciate your support next Wednesday. as they take on RPJ., Annual Track Raffle Win Fantastic Prizes! Details coming soon. Read the Concordiensis or ask your favorite trackstar.

Men's baseba,l:l won 3 road games this week. l± ~ (/) > • • a:J 0 0 if Women's rugby kicks off this week. April 13, 1989 Men's Lax Bows To Siena Men's Track Starts Strong Silver Paces Pack By BILL MAFFIE The Men's Lacrosse team not only battled the Siena team, but also fought very difficult field conditions and bad weather in a 10-4 loss at Siena on Thursday. The rainy weather which was only an inconvenience to us as we trudged from class to class proved to be a hindrance to the turf-oriented lacrosse team. Due to the fact that the team is more accustomed to playing on astroturf, a surface which is barely affected by inclement weather, they found the going very sluggish and sloppy on Siena's natural grass field. After making the bus trip to Siena, the team arrived to a lacrosse player's nightmare; a muddy, p1:1ddlc-ridden field. These conditions slow the Woments Softball Men's Tennis game down considerably, not allowing for sharp cutting, and also contributing to sloppy play. This fact would not matter so much if the Union team were used to playing on grass, however since all were accustomed to practicing and playing on turf, the poor conditions proved to be the equalizing factor against a less skilled, but better adjusted Siena team. Upon recognizing that the conditions would adversely affect his team, Coach Chuck Priore suggested postponement of the game, in order that it could be played under more favorable conditions. The Siena coach denied this request, and reportedly indicated that if Union did not wish to play, they would be forced to forfeit the game. Placed in this THURSDAY, APRIL 13 vs. Williams vs. RP]l. SATUIDA¥, APltJL 15 Men's Baseball vs. No1tWi~Jt,,.f;} ~:U~~;~o:~ail ¥~ ,&'tP' Wometl. 1 s> .lacros:se·: v·s~ · · .·· JV. Wom~rn;.$i'<I,;.~(}rQ&~el!:'Iv·~~·~, .Men's · T<~Jiitlt&{:.~,~;. :\ · ·· ·. ·• ·· Men'tf Tri!S~ W ornent.~ ~·;· · · ~~\\''\ .. ,. Men's. uncomfortable situation, the team went ahead and played, only to find the conditions unmanageable. Starting goalie Paul Garnett, back in net after a one game rest, com men ted that the crease was so muddy that his feet were barely visible. Though the team made a valiant attempt, they were unable to adjust to the conditions, and the weaker Siena team capitalizeci, pumping in ten goals l<O Union's four. This game was the first one in which the team, which was averaging just over ten goals per game, was held to so few goals. Hopefully. tlte team will have better weather f<>r their games at Middlebury on the 12th, and horne against St. Lawrence on the 15th, and Williams on the 19th. ·4:00 Aw·d.11•c.:J 3:00 .A,wH~i't::'l By HANS SCHWARZ In the first outdoor track meet of the year, the Union mens' track team traveled to Hamilton College. Behind the outstanding performance of the mens' track and tield athlete of the week, junior co-captain Chip Silver, the men took on the formidable challenges of I the weather as well as the competition. Chip placed first in the high jump with a jump of 1.85m, as well as pacing first and qualifying for the outdoor state meet in the 110m hurdles with a personal best time of 15.9. The Union team could not have done well though, without the fine efforts turned in by many other Dutchmen. Among those was Steve Hayes. also a double first place finisher, with wins in the lOOm in 11.3 and 200m in 23.2. Additionally, intermediate hurdlers Jeff Simkins and Rich Zembeck, finished first in 58.8 and third in 1:01.8, respectively. A typically strong performance was shown by Michael Martinez as he finished the 3000m steeplechase 10:38.6, earning 2nd place. Also Bob Lindyberg earned third in the 400m with a time of 53.3, closely followed by WiU Allen in 53 .4. Freshman rookie Sascha Lewis surprised some as he was the top Union competitior in the 1500m in 4:32.6, followed by Hans Schwarz in 4:40.8 and Doug Martocci in 4:41..9. In the 800m, another freshman rookie, Greg Barrett, performed well, finishing first for Union in 2: 11.8, followed closely by Doug Martocci in 2:14.1. In the long jump, Art Broga leaped into second place with 6 .. 28m. Some other Dutchmen also placing in field events were Cliff Genge and Keith Reynolds in the shot put with second (11.65) and third (10.47), respectively. This meet proved to be a good way for the Union men to get their feet wet in outdoor competition. It showed that the potential for an extremely successful season is available, waiting to be tapped. Beginning Saturday, the men have five meets in two weeks, two of which are at home. They would very much appreciate your support next Wednesday, as they take on RPI. Annual Track Raffle Win Fantastic Prizes! Details comlng soon. Read the Concordiensis or ask your favorite trackstar.

Vol. CXVIII, N10· .• 19 The 'Administra1ion's <JIGcl:silo n tc revoke Delta C.hi's house restJited in creative forms -=:Jff pr·otest. Administration - . Strips Delta Chi Of Housing Privilege By JAY FREELA}JD. News Editor Tlte Union CGlllege Administration has ma<le iit$ final <iecision and the Delta Clui housing saga is 'mwe:t. Beginning next fall, belta CILi will no longer have a h()U:se·lJn campvs despite three pre'Vlloms ·attempts to stop the f0ores~een administrative ~cision. Michael Cseh, PresideJJt · olf the Delta Chi Fraternity s;tated that ••a verbal notificatillm has been made alth0ugh we b a'Ve not received a written sta.~ment from the administration.•• Professor of Economiic:s.J Do~g Klein, who chafirs the Student Affairs Councilt' Sitated that although the ninel:r-lfive In This Issue: Dean Alford: The Man Behind tile ,Job. -page 5 Save tile Elep.bamlt,. and the Baboom, ~nd the Gazellf!!, amd the Giraffe .. -page 9 Men's lax takes: ·two wins fr01n nationally-ranlted teams. -page-20 percent occupatign p_olicy has not been carried out before, he feels that it was a necessary decision. Tlte Office of Residence Life offers only 1380 beds per year despite a student enrollment of over 2000. Cseh feels that Delta Chi did not receive the full attention it deserved and that not every option was weighed. in the decision-making process. He stressed the fact that Delta Chi has nine new initiates and ten more pledges which will bring their total membership to thirty-five and would give them a ninety-seven percent , . occupation level next year. Cseh also stressed the fact that a petition with 1,087 student signatures on it in favor of Delta Chi keeping its house was -not even considered by the SAC as a reason to re- open the case. He feels that the SAC \ignored student opinion\ in making their decisions and the administration was given the SAC's recommendation without a thorough review. Wednesday, one Delta Chi alumnus and a parent of a current brother met with : President Morris in hopes of a last minute reconsideration;- Klein states that Raymond House (D.elta Chi's current home) will probably be used for common theme housing or regular co-ed housing next fall. Cseh stressed that despite the administration~s deqision, Delta Chi will not be affected as a fraternity as a whole and will operate a full rush next fall. Upon finding an apartment for house meetings and other ' house functions, Delta Chi will then look into finding a new permanent h~rne • lege 1877 Schenectady, New York Fraternity Advocate To Sp~eak On Dispelli~g Greek Stereotypes By ELISE FOODY News Editor Critics maintain that WiU Keirn is not only an emotional · and motivating speaker, but also an inspiration to members of Greek organizations across the country. Wednesday . evening, April 26 at 7 :.30 PM irt Memorial Chapel, Keirn will bring his message here to Union College. His appearance, is being sponsored by the Inter- Fra,terni ty Council, the Panhellenic Council, and the Student Forum. Coilege faculty, members of all Greek ' organizations and the rest of . the College community are · strongly urged to attend. Arthur Hudson, newly· elected President of the Inter- Fraternity Council stressed the· · importance of Keirn's message and is looking forward to an impressive turnout. Keirn, who has spoken at · nearly one hundred fifty c0Heges and universities across the country, aims to dispel the typical stereotype of Greek · organizations. Carrying out • this theme, Keirn has entitled his talk \Demythologizing the Animal House Image .... \ He begins his lecture by stating that many people today \have developed a warped picture of Greek letter students.\ and that \these observers would paint a picture of underachieving gluttons with serious drinking and drug · problems.\ He also goes on to say that many people believe the Animal House image accurately depicts today's members of Greek · organizations and the values · theyhold. Keirn stresses that today's Greeks must identify with and publicize more openly the positive attributes and real Greek values such. as leadership, brotherhood, · sisterhood, service and academics. Union Faculty Enlighten Brookings Institution Collection .. By MAR CI SILVERMAN President .of the College, John S. Morris, Martin Strosberg, Associate Professor of the program in Health Systems Administration, .lames Lambrinos, Director of . the Program in Health Systems Administration, and Professor • of Philosophy, Robert Baker, • contributed essays to a recently published addition to Brookings' Dialogue On Public Policy series entitled, Rationing of Medical Care for the CriticaJiy Ill. This deals with the issue of whether the U.S. should move to a policy of rationing the use of beneficial l>ut costly life- sustaining services for the Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Professor MacDonald's t:ngnsn ctass enjoys a brief moment of spring term sunlight. • April 20, 1989 :Locker Room Violence Instigates I nvestig.ation Student Looks For Dismissal By R. REED WHIDDEN Editor-in-Chief As the softball team headed to the locker room on Thursday no one expected to witness the exchange of blows that occurred between softpall Coach Charlyn Robert and sophomore third baseman Teresa Sanchez after the meeting. Reportedly, Coach Robert handed down her decision to indefinitely suspend Sanchez from playing and to demote her to first base coach. According to some team members no explanation was given for this action. Sanchez then reacted to the coach with abusive language. At that moment Coach Robert, according to Sanchez, took hold of Sanchez's shirt. Sanchez demanded a number of times · that the coach release her grasp. The coach then reportedly hit the third baseman in the face. According to Sanchez, Robert was holding keys in the hand that hit Sanchez. In response to the blow, Sanchez ::;truck back at the coach. This incident occurred on April 13, and it is under investigatiqn this week. Richard Sakala, director of athletics, and Dean Joseph Mammola, dean of students will be conducting this investigation. In his 12 years at Union, Sakata has never come across this situation. Because there are no precedents to the case, Sakala and Mammola are trying to find the best approach to this investigation. The purpose of the investigation is to find out :the complete truth .of the story. 'Both Marnmola and Sakala will be speaking to each individual member of the softball team in order to be as accurate as possible. Sanchez has admitted that she used abusive language toward the coach after that meeting. It was, however, in response to the coach's announcement. Some maintain that the point of provoction is moot, and the real issue is the fact that a coach hit a player. Sanchez has also admitted that the relationship between herself and Coach Robert has not been a good one from the start of her participation on the team. continued on page 20

3, ie in th h Vol. CXVIII, No. 19 The ·Administration's decision tc revoke Delta Chi's house resulted in creative forms of protest. Administration Strips Delta Chi Of Housing Privilege By JAY FREELAND News Editor The Union College Administration has made its final decision and the Delta Chi housing saga is over. Beginning. next fall, Delta Chi will no longer have a house on campus despite three previous attempts to stop the foreseen administrative decision. Michael Cseh, President of the Delta Chi Fraternity stated that \a verbal notification has been made although we have not received a written statement from the administration.\ Profess<Jr of Economics, Doug Klein, who chairs the Student Affairs Council, stated that although the ninety~five ln This Issue: Dea11 Alford: The Man Behind the .Job. -page 5 Save the Elephant, and the Baboon, and tile Gazelle, and tlle Giraffe -page 9 Men's lax takes two wins from nationally-ranked teams. -page 20 percent occupation policy has not been carried out before, he feels that it was a necessary decision. The Office of Residence Life offers only 1380 beds per year despite a student enrollment of over 2000. Cseh feels that Delta Chi did not receive the full attention it deserved and that not every option was weighed in the decision-making process. He stressed the fact that Delta Chi has nine new initiates and ten more pledges which will bring their total membership to thirty-five and would give them a ninety-seven percent occupation level next year. Cs-eh also stressed the fact that a petition with 1,087 student signatures on it in favor of Delta Chi keeping its house was not even considered by the SAC as a reason to re- open the case. He feels that the SAC \ignored student opinion\ in making their decisions and the administration was given the SAC's recommendation without a thorough review. Wednesday, one Delta Chi alumnus and a parent of a current brother met with President Morris in hopes of a last minute reconsideration. Klein states that Raymond House (Delta Chi's current horne) will probably be used for common theme housing or regular co-ed housing next fall. Cseh stressed that despite the administration's decision, Delta Chi will not be affected as a fraternity as a whole and will operate a full rush next fall. Upon finding an apartment for house meetings and other house functions, Delta Chi will then look into finding a new permanent horne 1877 Schenectady, New York Fraternity Advocate To Speak On Dispelling Greek Stereotypes By ELISE FOODY News Editor Critics maintailil that Will Keirn is not only an emotional and motivating speaker, but also an inspiration to members of Greek organizations across the country. Wednesday evening, April 26 at 7:30 PM in Memorial Chapel, Keirn will bring hi:s message here to Union College. His appearance is being sponsored by the Inter- Fraternity Council, the Panhellenic Council, and the Student F.orum. College faculty, members of all Greek organization:s and the rest of the College community are strongly urged to attend. Arthur Hudson, newly- elected President of the Inter- Fraternity Council stressed the importance of Keirn's message and is looki11g forward to an impressive turnout. Keirn, wh.o has spoken at nearly one hundred fifty coileges and universities across the country, aims to dispel the typical stereotype of Greek . organizations. Carrying out this theme, Keirn has entitled his talk \Demythologizing the Animal House Image.\ He begins his lecture by stating that many people today \have developed a warped picture of Greek letter students.\ and that \these observers would paint a pictare of underachieving gluttons with serious drinking and drug problems.\ He also goes on to say that many people believe the Animal House image accurately depicts today's members of Greek organizations and the values they hold. Keirn stresses that today's Greeks must identify with and publicize more openly the positive attributes and real Greek values such as leadership, brotherhood, sisterhood, service and academics. Union Faculty Enlighten Brookings Institution Collection By MARCI SILVERMAN President of the College, John S. Morris, Martin Strosberg, A:5sociate Professor of the program in Health Systems Administration, James Larnbrinos, Director of the Program in Health Systems Administrati·Qn, and Professor of Philosophy, Robert Baker, contributed essays to a recently published addition to Brookings' Dialogue On Public Policy series entitled, Rationing of Medical Care for the Critically Ill. This deals with the issue of whether the U.S. should move to a policy of rationing the use of beneficial but costly life- sustaining services for the Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Professor Macuonald's l:ngusn class enjoys a brief moment of spring term sunlight. April 20, 1989 Locker Room Violence Instigates Investigation Student Looks For Dismissal By R. REED WHIDDEN Editor-in-Chief As the softball team headed to the locker room on Thursday no one expected to witness the exchange of blows that occurred between ~oftball Coach Charlyn Robert ·and sophomore third baseman Teresa Sanchez after the meeting. Reportedly, Coach Robert handed down her decision to indefinitely suspend Sanchez from playing and to demote her to first base coach. According to some team members no explanation was given for this action. Sanchez then reacted to the coach with abusive language. At that moment Coach Robert, according to Sanchez, took hold of Sanchez's shirt. Sanchez demanded a number of times · that the coach release her grasp. The coach then reportedly hit the third baseman in the face. According to Sanchez, Robert was holding keys in the hand that hit Sanchez. In response to the blow, Sanchez :.truck back at the coach. This incident occurred on April 13, and it is under investigation this week. Richard Sakala, director of athletics, and Dean Joseph Mammola, dean of students will be conducting this investigation. In his 12 years at Union, Sakala has never come across this situation. Because there are no precedents to the case, Sakala and Mammola are trying to find the best approach to this investigation. The purpose of the investigation is to find out the complete truth of the story. Both Mammola and Sakala will be speaking to each individual member of the softball team in order to be as accurate a<; possible. Sanchez has admitted that she used abusive language toward the coach after that meeting. It was, however, in response to the (l)J..:h·., .announcement. Some maintain that the point of provoction is moot, and the real issue is the fact that a coach hit a player. Sanchez has also admitted that the relationship between herself and Coach Robert has not been a good one from the start of her participation on the team. Continued on page 20

Page 2 CONCOR,DlENS.lS April 20, JJ8_9_ Bush's Funding Ignites New Battle With Co~gress By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager The New York Times dealt a blow to the Busb. administraticn on Monday:.. They reported that the states have not used $777 million dollars in federal funds available for anti-drug campaigns. The program was initiated. last year after the B usb. victory in the Novernber election. Bush used the anti- drug theme as a major part of ·his campaign issues. The pr.ogram calls for the states to use at least half of the money for intravenous drug users. As well, 20 percent must go fo~ prevention or early intervention of drug abuse. Another lO percent is supP<\)sed to be used for women's programs. Any money not specifically allocated can be used at· the discretion of tile states. .Senator Torn Harkin, an Iowa democrnt and chairman of the Labor and Health and Human Service Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee stated ''When you look at the size of some of the states that have not used this money--Calif<>rni·a, New Jersey, Ohio. Maryland--it's inexplicable.\ The states argue that the rules for the allocation .ef the money are constantly changing and that the new governors and legislatures of the states are unfamiliar with the programs. As of A,pril 3 ten states had not applied for this year's money: Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jer.sey,.Ohio,,. Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa democrat • • • stated \When you :look at the si7'e of some of the states that have not used this money • • • its inexplicabl'e.\ Virginia, Washington, and Wyoming. Eleven states failed to use last year's funds: . California, Louisian.a, Maine, Maryland, Missouri. New 1·ersey. Minnesota, North Dakota, South Carolina, Washing-ron. and Wyoming~ The allocation of the mo:ney is based on the size :of the state. California, which did not spend last year's money, is granted the most money while Wyoming is granted the least The lack of enthusiasm for the drug ptogram ca11 be attributed to the lack of control given the states in allocating the u~e of the money, States, such as New Jersey, Maryland, and California; have a large amount of (!rime inv()lverl with the drug problem of the large urban areas StiCh as Baltimore, Jersey· City, and Los Angeles. If 50 percent of the oocney must go \to IV drug users; the state~ will' not have enollgl! for ·the p:r~ventioil aspect of the war. _ The states are sending. a message to Busb saying let .us have the money and the freedom. tp use it. The Bush administration is going to encounter another battle if they keep up the backward. way of allocating the funds to the states. The administration should not want an()th~r.:fight in the Congress. After all~ the Congressmen· are more apt to listen to the States wbicb they represent than listen to Bush ·on the issue. ,This is: just anothe:r one of .the problems that BliSh ha& encountered since his tenure · as President. Unfortunately, ·it wiU not be his last. · Student Teaching Offers Exciting Afternative ·To College Curriculum learning and thrusts ~tudents into pesitions :of leadership in the classrom. It prolll~tes crit~cal thinking, equitable participation, and creativity. Yaskutka claims, \When students become facilitat()tS of classroom knowledge, they experience their own creative power. Further they tead to appreciate their faculty more fully, even while lo~ldng more critically at their classes.\ over the country to attest to that fact. Yaskulka emphasizes that this type of class is not to replace the traditional pedagogy, but to serve as an extremely beneficial complement to it · Eighi students here at Union have met twice siace the workshop to plan a beginning of such a model. They hope to implement a group independent study in the near future, utilizing a· common syllabi and meeti11g independent of their advisors for student run discussion. They arejust in the planning stages of such an initiation. Many topic areas are being discussed, such as:.human rights, environmental politics, and social change. Yaskulka comments that one of the beauties and the foundation of such ~ program \is the thrill of putting together the most eompeHing, current, and chattenging syllabus one can imagine.\ If anyone is inter~s-ted ln joining such an By DEilORAH LUCEY Last Monday and Tuesday night David Yaskulka, graduate of Williams College and co- director of the· Center for Common Security, visited Union C~ll~ge .to run two. works.hops on education: e~po~~~e}l~. and !e~<;f~r~bip. ' . ~ ~ . •\ . . Over 25 st11dents, faculty, and staff attended each' of these workshops examining the role students take in their education and an innovative program of student-initiated, student-run pedagogy. Y askulka asked ea~h person to take turns introducing themselves and explaini~g why they had come to the workshops. .The responses were wide ranging. \i learn every day about what I don't know, I want to learn about what I do know and how to use it. I'm interested in students getting together and. learning to commWlic.ate be;tter, rather than just socializing. and partying. I'd like to le3m to work with people ·non- hierarchally and non-authoritatively.\ Along with the exciting attitudes of ·an present, an exciting concept of a student-· run course was introduced. This concept developed at Williams College seven. years ago in 1983. A colleague of Yaskulka, Jeff Sultar, was interested in a subject matter that was not offered. Sultar th).ls began art. il}~epe~de.nt. • study of nonviolence and- social , ch:;mg~. . . · , .· . . · . . . · ·'This' sh,idy <Ievelopoo intO 12 studentS working with identical syllabi doing a group independent study with individual advisors, while meeting with each other twice a week to form a highly discussion oriented classrom composed solely of students. By the end .of the semester Sultar and his colleagues had twelve faculty advisors who were willing to attest to the high quality and motivation that existed in this new model of a student•r:un, student- initiated ·pedagogy. Yaskulka took this class with Sultar and now directs an organization located in Williamstown, MA, The Center for C()rnmon Security. · One of the p11rposes of the Center is to travel to schools around the co11ntry and establish student run courses. .. HonorCode Discussion Monday, April 24th in the College· Center Atrium At Williams the cla.ss has tun 17 times and invalved 36 faculty advisors out of body of 190. Yaskulka introduced the participants of the workshop to the description of such a model of student run classes and of how:one might be initiated· here at Union.·Thestudent·nm class is one of reasonable size where discu~sion and facilitation is manageab1e. The students take turns leading each class. The faculty do no attend these classes, but act as advisors for fina'l projects through a dialogue wh-ich occurs outside of the classroom. Student ... run edu.cation rejects passive There were many iss11es that the students rs,U.sed during the workshops concerning this type of class, but there was great excitement abo11t the fyasibility ;of starti:ng ~u<:b .. a program at Union. Students ~xpressed concer~s · of the credibility of such. a class and still including one of the essential. elements of s11ch a class, Credit. Yaskulka maintains that if such a class is initiated using proper chan11els and the commitment .devoted to it tQat is ~equired, it is . ~vident that such a class can be more than credible and there are over 60 such classes in progress all .. initiation, one can contact Alati Eisenberg or Kara Merrill. ' ; ·~ . . . R~C~~fPaD [B3 fLJ\ TC H fFO R [D) Ofd#\ TOR~C~l tONT~~l PRELIMINAR-Y ROUNDS MAY 9TH AND 10TH APPLICATIONS AR:E AVAlLABLE AT: 1) SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING CENTER, ROO.M S-100 2) LI'BRARY CIRCULATION DESK· 3) STUDENr AFFAIRS OFFICE • COLl_EGE CEN-:fER -~ ©b:\~~ ~~n~~~ .$) / ,, ., I

/ I CONCORDlENSIS April 20,· 1989 Page 3 ~·· ' . ,. - Prestigious M·edic·al Journal Publi.shes . . . Union Res:earch. .Continued from page 1 Raticmi.ng, by Max Harry Weil; Lesscms from the .critically Ul'. United Kingdo.m, by Harry Professor Strosb.erg' al~o . · J. Aaron; Federal Policy served as a tri-editor along with : • · 3nd In,.tensive Care, by I. . Alan Fein, Assistant Willis D. Gradison, Jr.; Professor . of Medicine at ·· Criteria for Admission to Albany Medicai College as . Intensive Care Units, by well as D~ector of Surgical· William f,... Knaus; Beyond Critical ~.are and the Critical. Do-Not-Resusd.tate Care Medicine Fellowship at Orders, by Professor Baker; Ellis Hospital, and James D~ A TJdrd ... Party Per.spec- Carrol, Senior Staff member at tive on Reimbursement the Center for Public Policy ' Policy,· by Lindsay Education ·at the .Bnmkings • · Robinson; Triag.e:. An Institution, a private nonprofit. Everyd;ay Occurance in organization devoted· to the intensive Care Unit research; .educatio.n, and . by Daniel Teres; Leg.a·l publication in economics, Pers·JlecUv·es o;n the government, foreign policy, .. Allocation of Intensive and !Jle social sciences. Care Ser.vices, by Barbara The publication exists as a R. Grumet; Profe.ssJonal conglomeration of papers.· Ethics and PoUtical prepared initiaHy for. Power, Michael A. Rie;. and pre~,entation at a Brookl,ngs Caring to.r the Critically policy development semmar Ill; ProppsalS for ~eld in· Washington, D.C., on Reform, by Professor Baker, .May 27, 1986, and concludes I. Alan Fein, Professor with a s'et of proposals S.trosberg, and Max Harry developed. after the conference Weil. . .. concerning areas of teform in J»resident Morris introduced caring for the critically ill. The the Washington, D.C. seminar conference convened for the with a speech focusing on the purpose of encouraging cultural forces that have been informed discussion of the pushing society to issues surrounding intensive acknowledge the need for care in hospitals and bron:ght rationing and the subsequent togethe'r physicians, complex ethical and moral administrators, economists, issues that have arjsen. Both lawyers, politicians, the conference and. the philosophers, ethicists, and ·publication support a academicians. C-Span, a . continuum of perspectives with televised broadcasting station, • eacf! panel participant covered the conference. expressing differing :opinions The College, along with · as to where the problems lie in Albany Medical College-Ellis health care and the proposed Hos.pital Critical Care . improvements or solutions. Education Foundation and the Professor Strosberg, who Brookings Center for Public previously edited along with I. Policy Education ;:both Alan Fein a related book organized the conferentie and entitled, Managing the sponsored the res·ul ting Critical Care Unit, feels volume. , ·· · the dialogue will receive The contents of the substantial advertisement as a publication include p~~rs of result of the renowned the following topics by repu.tation of its publisher, the subsequent leaders of the field: Brookings Institution. He Ethics and Scarcity by views the volume as a \Major President Morris; think-tank which does a wide A I t e r n a t i v e s t o · variety of policy proposing.\ Reported Security Incidents Week of April 10-16 i>ate Day Location Inddent 4/10 .;Mon Fox House Noise complaint. 4/10 Mon Fox House Stud.ent fined for tampering with life safety eql,lipment. 4110 Mon Bailey Hall Vandalism. damaged emergenc;y phone. 4/ll Tue Oilvidsoo. house False activation of pull box. 4/11 Tue S&E Building Unde&irable in building. Arrested. 4/11 Tue Bailey Field Staff member reports theft of athletic equipment 4/12 Wed Foxll>ilvid$0n Report of suspicious person. 4/12 Wed College Center Theft of bicycle reported. Bike rec6vered, suspect an:ested. 4/12 Wed Alumni Gym Items removed from locker-items reco'Vered by reCurity. 4/13 Thu S&E Building. Youthsremovedfrom basementand turned O'Ver to city .police. 4/13 Thu DavidSon area Report of disoriented person. 4/13 Thu Security OffiCe Student ~ports theft of checks. 4/13 Thu Achilles Riilk Reportofundesirables. 4113 Thu Security Office Assisted student and city police with investigationlc;omplaint 4/14 Fri North Entry Rd. Property damage automobile accidelit. 4/14 Fri Social. Sciences Vandalism- broken Window. 4/14 Fri U~rary Field Repolt of motorcycle driving on gmss. 4114 Fri Campus Repcrt of motorcycle being operated i 4/l4 ata bigh rate ofspeed. Fri West College Lot Complaint of loud motorcycle. 4/14 ' Jtri l>ilvidson Area Report of unconscious individual. ·~ Tumed over to city police. 4/14 Fri SOuth College Injjliy re~rt (student). ' ' M Q,. N TU ES w E. 0 -r K U R F I 10' obi Ll. 2.; i ' I I . , i f/:; li.O I . ! I ''+• :...0 1(:00 . . ~ I I ·! ;. soo a___,~~-...__,.,J_~_,_-J......~~~~-~-=----'----,........~----' iP:roposed schedule with four-day options I - .. :: 1-·5 .6-7 /Ml-M3 - MWF, 6'5 minutes TUT.h; 110 minutes {including 10--minute break} MWF, 85 minutes (.Mathematics) . ILl-L 7 Laboratories ··A...,.D I T.\1 or Th, _50-minute periods added to create 4-day option Revised Gel time Is One. Step Away From Approval COURTESY OF THE ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COUNCIL The Academi. c Affairs . . C()uncil will shortly be asking the faculty to vote on a new weekly schedule which modifies, but does not abandon, the basic geltime framework under which the college now operates. This faculty vote is rquired by the original legislation establishing the cUJTent geltime system, which. specified that the AAC would \conduct a review of the 'geltime' schedule and report its findings and . recmmnendations to the faculty,\ after which, \the faculty will vote to retain Qr alter or change the weekly class schedule,\ during the current academic year. Tbe AAC review included preparation of a report dated March 6, 1989, by an ad hoc G e 1 tim e Committee; the complete report has been sent to Division chairs, who bave been asked to make it available to all faculty. Following submission of the report, the AAC discussed its findings and : .-. Trustees Meet To .Review Present College Concerns By JENIFER HOLMES A Trustees meeting occurr~d la.st week and a variety of is sues and topics were discussed. Financial facts and figures were reviewed. The: Student Affairs Committee met and Dean Manunola spoke. To tlte interest of the board members, two counselors from- tile Counseling Center in Silliman Hall reported that the Counseling Center was used frequently. Also regular appointments and tenure pertaining to faculty were dis'cussed, The Dean of Faculty, James Underwood, mentioned the upcoming visit of Vice-President Tan Feng Liang, of Nanjing University with which we have a term abroad program. The Finance and Audit Committee reviewed the past ten years' finances. Dean of I Admissions, . Ken Nourse announced that : acceptan.ces were sent to prospective· students and that he ho:Ped enrollment would be between 510-520 students .. The board· members were informed of the present housing situation relating to . the Delta Chi fraternity. The board member~ decided that the situ.ation should stay in the hands of the administration. IN-TERNSHIP/FELLOWSHIP~ requested that the Geltime Committee explore an additional modification to several possible schedules discussed in the report. After these steps aqd additional deliberations on various possible schedules, the AAC voted 8-3 to recommend a new weekly schedule which retains the basic geltime format but also adds a four-day-per-week cla:ss option. · The proposed new schedule is included below for your consideration. Information sessions on the proposed schedule will be held on Wednesday, April 26 and Thursday, April 27, 1:45-3:()0, in Steinmetz 108. The vote on the proposed schedule will be conducted by mail in early May. The AAC believes the proposed schedule would be a significant improvement over our current one and accordingly urges that faculty members vote, \Yes.\ if the proposed schedule is adopted· 'it · would be implemented during the Winter term of 1990. If a majority of the faculty· vote, \No the current weekly schedule would be retained as is. The proposed schedule retains the basic geltime format for most classes, bu~ also allows for four-day-per-week classes (MTuWF or MwThF, with up to 245 minutes of total class time). .. cDS International, Inc. offers. internships that are designed' to prepare recent graduates for the internatio~al busine~ world. Students will have the opportunity to PQiish their German language skills and begin invaluable overseas bus1ness expenenc~. • Dcnnallay Directory is planning a summer inlerhship for juniors.tilat offers the chance to leam about the Sales, Marketing aoo Poolishing fields. . . . • Hostos Commulty College of The City Unlversltv of New York has internships for Summer and Fall1989 on and off campus. . . . . . . • ·Naw York State Senate is offering three fellowships for the 1989·90 year. They are the Leg1slat1ve Fellows Program, the Richard J. Roth Journalism Fellowshop, and the Richard A. Wiebe Public Service Fellows~ip. Application deadline: May 12, 1989 . ••• More information on these and other internships is available at the Career Development Center on the third floor of Old ~~;--~---------.~~~~~UP~~--------------- SUMMER/PART TIME JOBS · ~rempforce located in Albany, is looking for people to fill a variety of jobs, now and for this summer. \Arden Group Publications has positions open for an Advertising Slaes Representative. Located in NY. Applications accepted on a first come, first serve basis. APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 30. ·.ldlander Pools and Spas, ln~ .• ·l~cated irl Alba~y. is seekin9 ~ colleg studnet for full-time summers, and part- ·ttme for the school year startmg tn May, for delivery and dnVJng. . • The Legal Assistant Program at Syracuse University is now accepting applications for thier summer program. APPLICATIONS DEADLINE: MAY 8. .... For more information on these jobs and more, come to the CDC.

. Page 4 CONCORDIEN!;.f~ · April' 20,. 1989 FEATURES The Health And Fitness Column By JACQUELINE RANDALL philesophy. Instead, I am presenting ideas which you, as readers, may decide to modify or adapt to your own Ufesty]es. Many college students are aware that there is more to their health than just exercising and dieting. \Wellness\ programs can be beneficial to studeiJ!ts becaus,e they emphasize a healthy Iifetyle-- social, emotional, physical and spiritu~L Three yeas. ago, Sanders made many alterations in her lifestyle. She embraced a semi- European lifestyle by giving up her car and instead uses her bike as her source of transportation. Sanders is a very happy, energetic woman. 0 15 :::c 0.. ~ u:: Maintaining a healthy and well lifestyle .may involve chang.es in attitude and behavior. This week's health and fitness column interviews She tries to do without medication and instead uses food and herbs as remedies. When: she was younger, she experienced many health problems arid chose to reduce her medication through proper diet and exercise. Her philosophy emphasizes eating healthy, and exercising in · Rita Sanders, A Dietary Stress Consu.ltant It should. be noted that tlte following information is not meant to be an endorsement of this \wellness' The Perfect Answer By Natalie Bennett On ()fie of my daily wanderings down the hall of the dormitory in search of some concrete reason to procrastinate (not that l need one), I noticed a clipping on someone's door entitled \Smart Comebacks~\ As I readi1, I had memory flashes of thinking of the perfect answer for that lllllllentionable.undesirable with the corny lines and foul breath. Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on how you look at it) for me, I th()ught of it after I had gotten rid of it (sorry, him). How-ever, for those you who become speechless with disgust after getting a whiff of that eucalyptus cologne and skunk breath, here are S()nte perfect comebacks:- ! know how to please a '(oman. Thea please leave me alone. I want to give myself to you. Sorry, I don't accept cheap gifts. Your hair color is fabulous. . Thank you. It's on aisle three at the corner drug store. I can te:ll- you want me. · · Yes, I want you to leave. I wouldgo to the end of the world for you. Yes, :but would you stay there? fd g() tltrough anything for you. Let's !!tart with your bank account. (Goodmove!) Your oody is like a temple. Sorr_yt there are no services today. Yom place or mine? Both. You go to your place, and I'll go to mine. And the ever popular:- Haven't I seen you someplace before? or C4!Urse you answer:- Yeah, that's why I don't go there any nore. May lsee you pretty soon. Don't you think I'm pretty now. Is this seat ert1pty? Yes,. 1111d so will this one be if you sit down. Hey, baby, what's your sign? Do Not Enter, or Stop; your boyfriend says Trespassers will J)e Prosecuted. If I could see you naked, I'd die happy. If I could see you naked, I'd die laughing. (Now that's a ~J ' Needless to say, they don't always work, but at least you tried. If worse comes to worst, tell him breath stinks he's ugly ~q~.d his mother dresses him funny. He'll think you're nuts, and hopefully will go check: his breath in the men's room. Now's your chance to run for it! moderatitm t<> maintain her \wellness\ state. Sanders' n()\V lifestyle made her feel so much better that she decided to 11se her methods and help other people. Thus, she developed \WeUness\ Programs.~ addressing the following factors: stress reduction,. stopping smoking, ~qu.ittin g alcoholism, hypertensi()O control, weight control, :;ol ving eating disorders, aa<i reducing anxiety and depression .. All of her treatments involve proper nu.trition and exercise. Sanders offers works.h.Ops, seminars and private c<Ji!Eiseling. She is available to help clients build up their immune system through theirdiet. vou partl remember to ... as aasy am,t:ounting from 1 to L ·Know ]1Jur lifllil -st:ly \lithin it. 2. Know whm !'I:JU.'i'C drinking. 3. Design~tc.a.nor:Hfrinlting dri\-er. ,4. Don'tlet a frierul dri'~ drunk. 5. Call a. cab: if )UU'renot sober~or not sure, 6. Serve ·plenty (Hood. ~ Be responsible !01:[riends' saf~ty. . 8, Stop serving alcohol as lhe party Winds dowri. 9. Help a probl€llil dlinker by offering your ,~!'I'll'\ I Set a good:e:\:l!llf'1e; Natio[ljj[ llerulqiiarters 150 P.tularino f\W;,.S~ite 190, Costa Mesa, CA 92626 ' l~00-441·2337 ' Sanders' programs prove to be beneficial to people of all 1lges and sexes. She wants to gear more programs to college students. s:anders shares health/fitness information with clients and s,hows them proper diet through private ·cooking lessons. Her clients, in return, have· become happier, have had better r.:elationships, have gained self confidence .and self esteem and even study more effectively. In 1984, Rita became the founder and director of the Cooking Cohnection-- the first cooking school to introduce the noveau American diet. She writes personalized recipes for people with specific prob~ems of .allergies, lactose intQlerance,. diabetes, cardiovascular disorders, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. $andets teao·bes cooking classes qt Ellis Hospital and other local places. She gears her classes to working men and women: who want easy, quick and simple foods. She emphasize! slow stress foods, energy producing foods and foods that increase memory. She helps her clients select the · proper_ foods that will help them watch their weight· if necessary. Sanders dedicates 50% of her time to working with people on low income-- the elderly, the handicapped; AIDS patients, and pregnant teens. She developed a project called, \Looking IN'' where she visits housebound individuals and distributes food and clothing where indicated. Sanders has dedicated her home as a health and healing center. She has many boolcs, magazine articles and other relevant information concerning health and fitness. Her hou.se also serves as a Media Resource Center. Her information is available to anyone who is interested, Sanders has been involved in a tele·vision series for two years. She produced her own TV show called \The Total Person:\ on Channel 16. .She has appewed on Channels 13 and 6, and, is. frequently a guest , on WQBK. .. Her programs deal with the mind/body connection. ·. ' Sanders, \Wellness'•program is ·one -of many methods in promoting health and \wellness.\ It is importallt to know that there are many other ways in which· you can take· responsibility f.or your own health, prevent . illness, choose positive lifestyle habits and have a positive attitude towards yourself and others: Your health <;lepends on your individual choices. Please direct your comen~ to Box 1993 .. The Faculty Bibliography Group is commencing work on the next edition of the Union College Bibliography of Faculty Publications. This publications will include works published, performed and exhibited · by Union College Faculty during the period September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1989. At this time the Group is : ·asking faculty members to submit copies of their publications from September 1, 1987 on-. Please send copies of your publication to · Inga Dambergs or Ellen Fladger at Schaffer Library as soon as possible. '$12.50= DRAFT BEER. SHRIMP . HOR D'OEUVRES. AND FOOD!!! NOTE: NO TUX REQUIRED JUST DRESS TO IMPRESS ,-;- TICKET SALES DEADLINE I TUESDAY APRIL 25 j · -. Hang, with the best of company! TICKETS. ONLY $12.50@ BOX O~FICE

FEA-TURES- .~ •' U.nion College Professors Contribute to Book On. Health Care By DESMOND WARD In May 1986, President Morris and se)feral faculty members from Union College and Albany Medical College were among the collaborators of a book entitled Rationing of Medical Care for the Critically In, published by The Brookings Institute,. a ''think tank\ in Washington, D.C. The idea for the book originated from a conference held in Washington in 19S6 and was organized by the Center fo Public Policy at Brookings, Union College, atrd the 1\Ibany Medical College- Ellis Hospital Critical Care Education Foundation. It explored the admission criteria and the rationing of medial care for tbe critically ill patient so as to develop criteria :for excluding patients who cannot benefit from the care. / . The 97 .page book was edited by Martin A. S trosberg, an associate professor in Union's Graduate Managem~nt Institute, Alan Fein of Albany Medical College, and James D. Carroll from the Center for Public Policy. IncLuded in the book are the conference papers by Union's President Morris on \Ethics and Scarcity\ and papers by Robert Baker, associate p.rofessor of· Philosophy at Union, on \Beyond. Do-Not-Resuscitate Orders.\ In the section of the book \Caring for the Critically Ill,\ Professor Baker along with Fein, Strosberg:, and Weil alluded to several proposals that would reform the medical care system for the critically ill. The proposals inclvde the tigllteping of admission standards, reforming consent procedures such as \do-not- resuscitate\ orders, and proposals. to l)1edical societies to endorse these policies. \The medical community is once again struggling w~th obsolete contept_s of medical care - concepts that require the deployment of increasingly scarce resources on futile, Prof. Baker models Rationing of. medical Care for the Critically Ill, to which he was a contributor, alor:~g with President Morris, Alan Fein, James D. Carroll, and Martin A. Strosberg. expensive and often inhumane intensive care interventions~\ they write~ Professor Baker, also a bioethicist, reports \right now, there are people admitted to intensive care units who should not be admitted, artd there are those who are kept in the units longer than they reasonably should be.\ Th~se admittances block beds and care for patients who could really benefit from them. \What will happen is a kind of defacto rationing,\ said Baker. Another conference is being planned for as soon as 1990 because as it stands now, the population is growing older, technology is being developed further, and the critical care units are filling up with fewer places to put patients. Dean Alford - The Man Behind The Job By PETER KATZ In his button-down oxfords and knit ties, Assistant Dean of Students Frederick Alford is quickly making a name for himself at Union. Dean Alford has been at Union since July 1987. In tlut time, he has become one of the most approachable members of the administration .. Perhaps this stems from a combination of his personality and the responsibilities that .his Job entails. As far as his personality goes, Dean · Alford communicates well and: appears dedicated to making Union a better place. He .. enJoys working with people and helping them with their problems. He feels that there is a basic two-fold philosophy behind tl1e role of the' Dean of Students. Its purpose is to \encourage inquiry and debate · outside of the classroom.\ In the day-to-day activities people should create an environment in which students can express their opinions and attitudes. \Helping students to he thoughtful and reflective in the world can only be advantageous,\ Dean Alford said. He believes that meetings and group discussions .such as. Crosstalk and A Plateful of Questions harbor this very notion. The second aspect .of the Dean of Students' job is to \manage a sense of trust in the community.\ This involves interpreting and applying expectations of that community in the form of conduct codes, setting academic expectations> and standards for C~fRirElElR!S HNJ fP~VCHOlO~Y If you are uncertain about what to do af1er graduation, and you have an interest In psychology, here's your chance to explore the opportunities available to you, The Psychology Club and Psi Chi are sponsoring the third annual · ©l'lllf®®ll' ll'ilmw on May 6, 1989 fn;>m 12-5 pm In Hale House/Old Chapel. There· will be representatives. from a varif!ly of career fields and graduate school programs present to talk with students. Keynote Speaker Dr. Robert A. Saron from RPI, author of several books, including textbooks in Industrial- Organizational and Social Psychology, will give a personal account of the career choices he made to arrive at his present status as a psychology professor. DON'T SAY ANOTHER WORD ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT CHANGE IT. COOl IT! HOW CAN NWF HELP US COOL IT?. Wl'll connect you willl other students around !he coun!Jy who are wor~ing to COOL IT!. Help wfth .Ideas to make your project really. work. Help you raise money lor your · campus to fight global warming. On Earth Oay1990, we'll locus national attenflon on students' accomplish· ments. \\1!'11 publish a directory of alllhe·COOL IT! - P!D]ects. Your resume will be in lhe COOL rn job bank ih Washington, D.C. Arid your project could be awarded special meritsta\Us; earning $2,500 .for your school. ~you are a stiJdent leader and want more Information · on how your school can start a certified COOL ITI project,wrrte to COOL IT!, National !Midlife Federation, 1400 1~ Street, NW.. Washington, D.C. 20036·2266 or call (202) 797-5435. . EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION • 1400 16th Slrei:t INI. Washington. DC 2003&~66 . achiev~ment and behavior. In addition to upholding these principles, Dean Alford's daily duties include being the first line on student conduct matters. He added that for the most part the problem is resolved between himself and the student. Also he is the Adminis.tration Advisor to fraternities. This entails holding them to standards cf behavior as well as setting 11p programs concerning hazing, social policy, and similar matters. Dean Alford also helps the international students with immigration and naturalization. He meets with them and helps to set up some of their activities. He is also always available to help any student with problems that they may be having. Other responsibilities include organizing Parents' Weekend artd Freshman Orientation. While he knows what he's up against in terms of student apathy and want for independence, Dean Alford is h.appy with student involvement at Union .. Be cited Sports and Clubs as prime examples. To make it even better, however, he thinks that you must hammer away at it. You must keep _sending the message and be patient. He is realistic in that he knows some students will respond while others will remain passive. Some of his long term goals at Union include getting the Interfraternity Council more initiative in upholding standards and in articulating and . monitoring codes of behavior in the fraternities. Dean Alford would also like to see more faculty and student interaction outside of the class such as the new housing initiative-Living and Learning. Dean Alford comes from an excellent educational background. He received an undergraduate. degree, from Hawthorne College in New Hampshire and his Ph.D. in June of last year from Harvard Graduate School. When asked why he was at Union, Dean Alford responded by saying, \For undergraduate studies it is one of the best. Union is a small, rigorous college and does not allow students to go through it anonymously. It is hard to be invisible.\ He concluded by saying, \Union is a good caliber school with enough money to provide the highest quality education.\ WRUC 89.7FM SHOW PICK-OF-THE-WEEK SPORTSLINE with Chris Nikolis, Andy Seewald, Joe Voytivky, and Dave Sachar. Sunday nights 8:00 - 9:00PM Call them at 370·6151

Page 6 CONCORDII!.NS1S April 20, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEA T·URES - FRANCE 1989-1989 200 Years Of \Liberty Equality. and Fraternity\ By NATALY REMBAULLT and VERONIQUE BLElUOT The French Revolution that took place ·at a time when France was, the largest and most influential country of western E\lrope, became the crucial part of a larger attack on the old order (the sovereignty). It was a many sided attack upon the entrenched privileges of aristocratic land owners, clergy and office holders,. as well as all forms of royal absolutism that sheltered this structure of privileges. The main reasons for the crisis in France were threefold: political, economic and ideological. Ideologically., French thinking about social and political matters. was profoundly affected by brilliant writers who were almost unanimously critical of the existing order. Diderot, Montesquieu and Voltaire ridiculed the old or.der and exp.os.ed its injustices. Rousseau preached the revolutionary doctrine of the sovereignty. of Paris created their own militia, the National Guard, which was commanded by the : · Marquis de Lafayette (July 13). On the 14th, armed with cannons and guns from. the Invalides, the Paris m(')b attacked the Bastille and ·. · captured it after a three hour fight. Similar actions .took place all over France, causing • · the Princes of blood and fflal\Y · ../of the nobility to emigrate. This page of the French and ·European history was only the . beginning. of a long series of • fights, reforms and great I : changes that constituted the point of departure of the modem world. For almost 200 years, every Frenchman has celebrated this unforgettable. · event on the 14th of Juiy, by : lightening up the \French sky\ .. · with minions of fireworks.~ It .. · took a long time for France to > Continued on page 7 i Saviez-vou_s que? (Did you know?·. . • ) By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Internat~onal Features Editor The French Revolution can be cited as one of the most significant historical events. Its influence was so great that it .completely metamorphosed the socio-political face of France. Indeed, many of the features which we have been accustomed to recognizing as 'tFrench\ are mere products of tlle French revolution. Some of these are: / (a) \Liberty Equality and Fraternity.\ The logo reminds the political and social objectives of the French revolution. The logo, however, was formally adopted in 1798 and is now seen on all official documents and c:urrency of the French republic. (b) The colors of the French fl:ag: blue, red and white. Previous to the revolution there existed no official flag of France. Nevertheless, during the revolt, the people were wearing pins of blue and red color; which were the colors of Paris. Later, however, the king added white so as to .reflect the · colQr of monarchy. By 1830, the vertical b\lnds of blue, white .and red composed the official flag of the French republic. (c) The French franc became the new currency. of the country. Bats of gold and silver were abolished, as means of tracle. (d) The French anthem~ which is played today. was composed in Straasburg on April 25, 1792 by Rouget De Lisle. (e) The metric system was adopted officially in 1798 Politically, exemption of the nobles and clergy from the main burdens of taxation, and the over taxation of the middle classes and peasants as well as the government insolvency was a privilege that no minister had been able to breach. The parliaments. core of local resistance to royal demands re- established by Louis XVI, renewed the struggle. For these and other reasons the meeting. of the Estate General (a consultant body irregularly convoked by the crown) in 1789 brought to a head all the internal conflicts of. 18th century France. All looked to the king for initiative for reform: nobody wanted a republic. Yet the king, on three occasions, set hims.e.lf to oppose the new spirit. The third estate (one of the orders into which Fi·ench society was divided and which included all Frenchmen who wer.e not members of the clergy, the first estate, or the aristocracy, the second estate), bn June 17, 1789 took the title of National Assembly and swore on the 20th not to dissolve before it had given France a constitution. It was j.oined by most of the nobles and clergy. Loui~ .XVI then ~rd¢red the estates to deliberate separately. · The assembly refused. The king concentrated troops near Versailles and dismissed his popular minister, Necker. At this news the people of Paris rose July 12. The Bourgeoisie France And U.S. Celebrate Economically, France had suffered from creeping inflation since the 173'0's. The rise in prices intensified after 1785, hit most. severely~ the -tenant~ farmers and the poorer people everywhere. Tllese were also years of bad harvests. Economists like Quesnay and Gournay pr.es sed for the development of agriculture and for greater freedom of trade. French Bicentennial By PATRICK PERIVIER Festivities- have already ·started from January 1st in commemoration of the 200 years of th.e French Revolution. Here is a listing of events that are taking place in France and in the United ; States. FASlllON SHOW REHERSAL In France: March- December: \Once : u.pon a time in Paris.\ : Historic~ films on giant ; screens and other festivities at ' theJlois de Vince~es. (Paris) CC AUDITORIUM I 9:00 - 11:00 PM MODELS MUST ATTEND . : April-October: Eiffel 'I ; celebration. Sound and 1igbt · . ! shows, along with fireworks and exhibits. May-July: Film shows every , Friday and Saturday of the 1 French Revolution shown in front of the City Hall in Paris. May 15-August 28: \La L----------------------------' . dance en Revolution\. Ballets. WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES! CALL ANTHEE 374-3833 THE FENCH CLUB PRESENTS: ''MANON DES SOURCES'' BY CLAUDE BERRI WITH YNES MONT AND Monday, April 24 7:00 PM Mobile Lounge iri the College Center with Maurice Bejart's \Ballet of the 20th Century\. The Paris Opera, Antonio Gades, and the Bolshoi Ballet at the Grande Palais, June 17: A re-enactment of t:JJ.e estates general at V etsailles . conference at the Sorbonne. 'uly 14: A concert spectacle by Jean Michel Jar:re. Fireworks, festivities and balls throughout France. A lot of. French wine and beer. July 15-July 30: Opera Festival at -chateau de Versailles including \La Traviata\ and Placido , Dolmingo; September 20-21: Onsite re- . creation of the Battle of Valmy. In United States: March-May 18: \Revolution in Print: .France .1789: The New York City Public Library. March-July: \L 'att de vivre.' 1 Decorative arts and designs in France 1789-1989 at Cooper Hewitt Museum, NY. Mar~h-May 20: \A de Tocqtieville and the French Revolution.\ · Library Of Congress in Washington, DC . June~:Aiugust 30: \Lafayette: Hero of the two worlds,\ at the Queens Museum. October 11-: \All That Jazz•• by French and American artists, at the Avery Fischer · Hall in New York City. December 5-April 1990: \The age of Napoleon: costume from revolution to empire.\ at the Metropolitan Museum. For more information contact: The. French Tourist Office (212) 757-1125 The American Committee on the French Revolution, 1511 Kay St., NW ., 11th Floor, ·Washington, DC 20005: . *******************'***************** · Monday,Mayl DIE VERTREffiUNG AUS·DEM PARADISE (1977) with English Sub-titles College Center 406 7:30pm *****************************~******

CONCORDIENSIS Apri'l 20, 1989 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ~*~ ~ . . * II~ This ~week in the· W.orld (4/11/89 • 4/17/89) Commemoration To the Right Of Men and Citizens By SRELLEY SZYMKO I • Soviet Union: Several hundred residents were arrested for curfew violations . in Geot:gia in response to Mikhail Gorbachev's goal to curb nationalist feelilng. The Kremlin leader expressed opposition to extremism, anti-Soviet displays and to .p~o-independence activists. Gorbachev has tJtged a restoration of peace al)d has blamed \actions by irresponsible persons\ for the death. of nineteen protestors in Sunday's dash with Soviet troops in Tbilisi. According tp a spokesperson, the Georgian Community Party chief tendered his res~gnation after locai party officials. met to discuss Sunday's dash. . Israel: Four alleged Israeli leaders were .. captured by authorities for starting tbe Palestinian uprising ,in the W: est BaJJk and Gaza Strip. This capture has caused a serious ,blow to the H)-month long revolt. However,. these arrests lack the infl~tence to end the rebellion. . . So11t.b. Africa: A threat to interrogate black nationalist guerillas withdrawing from northern Namibia has bee~ dropped by South Africa. Nevertheless. Swapo rebels did not report for a second time to U.N. peacekeepers for evacuation to Angola. Western diplomats have criticized the threat as it would violate a pact to end clashes that jeopardize Namibia's independence. Continued from page 6 overcome the painful and bloody events of the revolution. But it has to be, beat in mind that the language of politics {\left\, \right\) .and the affiliated: description of \radical\ and \reactionary\, all take their modern reference from these events. ~ · The French Revolution also has a sym:bolic issue; the idea of the power of human will that gave birth to the declaration of the rights of man and the citizen. The \hiH of rights\ of the French revolution was decreed by the . revolutionary N a.tinnal · , Assembly after heated public . debate on August 17,. 1789. The declaration affirmed the sovereignty of the people, the liberties of the individual and other principles that were to appear in the constitution of 1791. Hence the F:rench motto, written on all coins \Liberte. ·' ~Egalite, Fraternite\. The revolution was seen as the death certificate of the old regime and the symbol of the new. The Egyptian Obelix on the place de Ia Concorde has now replaced the very location of the guillotine, and if you walk along the avenue des <;:hamps Elysees on the night ·of July 14, you will find that champagne has now replaced the blood that flowed 200 years ago. Because of the bicentennial, the usual 14th of Ju1y is this year, going to be given other proportions. Because of the impact that French people want to g1V'e to . this event, the festivities will be .spread throughout three months. But what is the real spirit 'behind the commemoration of the bicentennial of the French revolution? Beyond the festivities that are going to take place in France, the main idea is to make French people proud of the motives of the revolution. The French revolution has to be considered as a social and civic progress and it is within this context that the celebration wiH take place. June will see the homage of the popular sovereignty, a homage to the power of the people. The 14th of July will celebrate the attack of the Bastille, as well as the feast of the Federation. This last event is a public demonstration of support to the revolution. August 26 will commemorate the b-ill of rights. This event wiH allow the young generation to support and join the right of men and citizens. lt will also permit them to think about the adaptation of the bill of rights to their generation. Ja)lan: Japanese Prime Minister Takeshita admitted having accepted $1 million from a company involved in a political scll!ldal. Calls have been prompted for his resignation. But in an appearance before the parliament he told opposition lawmakers that he has no intention of resigning. WCJrldwide: In 1988, worldwide terrorism incre:,tSed by 3% from the previous year. For the U.S., there was a 22% increase in 3ttacks on l,LS. targets; The death toll for those killed due to terrorism was 658 people of whom 192 were Americans. Most of these Americans died on the Pan Am jetliner bombed over Scotland in,December. 1988 terrorist injuries. were .... APPLICATIONS FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HOCSE ARE -AVAILABLE AT THE OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LJFE (CC 405) THE DEADLINE IS MONDAY, MAY 1ST! recorded at 1,31 L · · .·:BE A PART OF THE ·.· ~ ,-r - '#. ' Helji Lighting, • 10 Advertising, Make-up, Clothes Coordination . ·and Music! Contact .. Crlstin,a An thee 370-6839 374~3833 . . Get your teams ready for GAMMA PHI BETA and DELTA PHI's 2nd· Annual 12 noon Volleyball 4/28 - 12. noon Marathon 4/29 all proceeds to benefit the United Way . International Question of the Week ~y Anthee Carassavas · \What major historial event took place on July 14, 1789? . Forsyth Davidson -89 - \The day :.President Morris b II . was om ... • Mike Greenberg 1 90- \The French Rev~lution.\ . Cara Nelson i91 ~ \Locu_s:ts stormed the ·.White House.\ Jason Meshnick '99 - \1789 was the year \\hen the Amish got their first car.- .. What do you think I'm stl!-pid. Ies the French Revolution.\ Jimmy Ostrove '90 - \Sans Culottes stormed the Bastille looking for needles and thread with which to re-sew their pants into culottes.\ R.Reed Whidden '90- i'Bastille Day. What do you think I am stupid? I mean I am the fountain of information, you know.\ Johnny Liverpool '90 - 11 The first sighting of an · extra-terrestrial.\ Sara Glockenstein '89 ~\When Karl Marx wrote \The origin of the Species.\

• Page 8 l:ONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 ATTENTIO.N STUDENTS!! .. ARE YOU GRADUATIN·G SOON!!! (518) 237-9012 ATfENTION: All Students anfFaculty Come hear Revoluntionary and Dynamic Speaker WILL l{EIM . speak on ROI has excellent part-t·ime and fuiiMtime positions available wo.rking with adults with developmental ·. · disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting. • Work with a professional team wh·ile providing. assistance and supervision in the areas . .of daily living skills, socialization and recreation. D ytb 1 • • mL \ ... 1\...TTMAL·' '' ·. H' o· u·s·E I' mage\ . em · O.togiZ:tllg' :a.ne .H...L-,,a.. · · · · ·. · · ·. ' · .. • ... ·: .· · ·• ·. Wednesday, April26, 1989 7:00 pm Memorial Chapel Flexible hours on weekday evenigns, overnights nad weekends. · · Earn between $5.50 and $6 .. 25 pwer hour plus holiday' . bonus incentive (part-time wages). Sponsored by: The Union Interfraternity CouncH, Pan Hellenic and The Student Forum Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus full :. benefits. START YOUR:CAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME· WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient locations. Call for information. Residential Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service Agency located in the Albany area. Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, NY 12047 (518) 237-9012 VISAGE HAIR AND TANNING· STUDIO '55'7 NOTT ST. 374·0351 TANNING-. ALL VISITS ARE $1.00 \BOW IIIIDI818,008 nR COLLEGE BY WORKIIIWEEDRDS.\ When my friends and I graduated from high school, we all took part-time jobs to pay for college. They ended up in car washes and hamburger joints, putting in long hours for little pay. Not me. My job takes just one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Yet, I'm earning $18,000 for college. Because I joined my local Army National Guard. · They're the people who help our state during emergencies like hurri- canes and floods. They're also an important part of our country's military defense. So, since I'm helping them do such an important job, they're helping me make it through school. As soon as 1 finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me~ cash bonus of $2,000. I'm ruso getting . another $5,000 for tuition and books, thanks to the New Gl Bill. Not to mention my monthly Army · Guard paychecks. They'll add up to more than $11,000 over the six years · 'I'm·in the Guard. , And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay· it back- up to $1,500 a year, plus interest . It all adds up to$18,000-or more -for college for just a little of my time .. And that's a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you. THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT. YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO~ / SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL .. FREE 800-638-7600,* OR MAIL THIS COUPONe *In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam: 477-9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773-6438; New J~rsey: 800-452-5794. In Alaska, consult your local phone directory. © 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense. All rights reserved. r---------------~----, I MAIL TO: Army NationalGuard, P.O. Box 6000; Clifton, NJ 07015 I I OM OF I I NAME I I ADDRESS I . I CITY/STATE/ZIP I II us CITIZEN. 0 YES 0 NO ·'I AREA CODE PHONE I I I SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER BIRTH DATE I 1: OCCUPATION I I· STUDENT 0 HIGH SCHOOL 0 COLLEGE II I PRIOR MILITARY SE~VICE 0 YES 0 NO I BRANCH . RANK . .AFM/MOS NationaiGuard I ·I THE INFORMA.TION YOUVOI.UNTARII.Y PROVIDE INCL\.()4~~ YO\.JR SOCIAL SECU~ITY NUMBEA • I v.iLLSEUSEOFO\RECRUITI~GPV•POSESOI<LV VO\J~$00At.SECURITYNUMBER A1 c L. JC17049N' p L ~=O..:=YZERE~~T~THIS~~OR~TY.,~~lJ.:_ --' --- --·--- ~ ~ ....... ---- J Army atio•lluard Americans At Their Best.

· Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237-9012 ATI'ENTION: All Students anfFaculty Come hear Revol untionary and Dynamic Speaker WILLKEIM speak on ROI has excellent part-time and fuN-time positions available working with adults with developmental disabHities in a residential and day treatment setting. · Work with a professional team while providing assistance and supervision in the areas o.f daily living skills, social,ization and recreation. , Flexible hours on weekday evenigns, overnights nad' weekends. Demythologizing The ''ANIMAL HOUSE Image'' Wednesday, April26, 1989 7:00pm Memorial Chapel Earn between $5.50 a:nd $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday. bonus incentive (part-time wages). Sponsored by: The Union Interfraternity Council, Pan Hellenic and The Stude:nt Forum Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus full benefits. START YOUR CAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient locations. Call for information. VISAGE HAIR AND TANNING STUDIO 557 NOTT ST. 37 4-0351 TANNING- ALL VISITS ARE $1.00 Residential Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service Agency located in the Albany area. Men's llaircuts ________ $9 $1 Tanning Visits! Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. ::r::n's Haircuts :!: · $ll> ~fif~Qk\lt;;. n3Us~ Spiral Perms - 1 · $55 peditnu:es, a.nd.bQ~Y ~ps., Cohoes, NY 12047 Highlighting .. $43 YOlJMUST'MENTION TB!S·.AD Cellupllaning $15 TfJ O:ET 'l'l':lESE~J?RlCJDS; ... ,., (518) 237-9012 ';;;·,-.:~- ·: _;.' -~- \ __ .,,,_ ;'•_ ... --~· ' ~~---. :;;~-.':~ ~:' ;- .• ':._ .. :··--;· . \HOW IIIADE 818,000 FOR COLLEGE BY WORKING WEEKENDS.\ .,'· .,. . .. When my friends and I graduated from high school, we all took part -time jobs to pay for college. They ended up in car washes and hamburger joints, putting in long hours for little pay. Not me. My job takes just one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Yet, I'm earning $18,000 for college. Because I joined my local Army National Guard. They're the people who help our state during emergencies like hurri- canes and floods. They're also an important part of our country's military defense. So, since I'm helping them do such an important job, they're helping me make it through school. As soon as I finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me a cash bonus of $2,000. I'm also getting another $5,000 for tuition and books, thanks to the New GI Bill. Not to mention my monthly Army Guard paychecks. They'll add up to more than $11,000 over the six years I'm in the Guard. And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay it back- up to $1,500 a year, plus interest. It all adds U{) to $18,000-or more -for college for JUSt a little of my time. And that's a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you. THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-638-7600,* OR MAIL THIS COUPONG *In Hawaii: 737·5255; Puerto Rico: 721·4550; Guam: 477·9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773-6438; New Jersey: 800·452-5794. In Alaska. consult your local ph<me directory. c 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense. Ali rights reserved. r--------------------, MAIL TO: Army National Guard, P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015 --=-------------------------DMOF NAME A[lDRESS CITYISTATEIZIP ~-:-:==-=:-:-::----------- l;s CITIZEN DYES D NO AREA COOE PHONE SOCIAL SEC!lRITY ~l'MRER OCCUPATION STUDENT 0 HIGH SCHOOL D COLLEGE FRIOR MILITARY SERVICE 0 YES 0 NO BIRTH DATE ERANCH RANK AFMIMOS National Guard ational Guard Americans At Their Best. ' ' ' !

CONCORDIENSIS Apl'il 20; 1'~89 Page 9 S·AYE. T~HE ELEPHA:NT .. . . . . ... I 11111# the Gt~zelle, and the /Jaboon,· lind the Girllffe . .. . By KEVIN GARDNER Science and Technology Editor · In the 1930's there were approximately 30 million elephants living south of the Sara:ha Desert in Africa. In 1979,. the number was 1.5 million. Today the estimate is at 650,000. that makes it a creature of habitat and environment for other species to thrive in . An average elephant consumes 300 pounds of vegetation a day. In this foraging the elephant kills -small trees and underbrush and pulls branches off large trees. This creates open spaces in pTaces that were previously woods, which allows different types of vegetation to flourish. Different types of vegetation attract different types of herbavores. Different types Of herbavotes attract different types of carfiiYores. There is much more to the disappearance of the elephant than just the extinction of the largest land animal. left on earth, the \mythic symbol of a continent.\ With the elephant go hundreds of other species, from the wildebest to tile giraffe to the baboon to the cheetah. The status of Africa as the richest continent in the world in terms of large mammals is at stake with the disappearance of the elephant. Dr. David Western, a wildlife . biologist who has been studying the elephant over the· last 20 years in southern Kenya, has found that when elephants are allowed to roam freely they distribute in \internteQiate densities;\ In this f:ashion they create a mixture of I It is the elephant's appetite Problem ·of the Week A farmer 4as a large field containing a right triangle' with posts X, Y, and Z at the midpoint of each of the sides of the triangle. A goat is tethered to post X on the hypotenuse, a sheep is tethered to post Y, and another sheep to post Z. The ropes are just long enough to allow each of the three animals to reach the two adjacent verticles. , Wliat is the total area the two sheep have to themselves ... i.e.~ the area the goat cannot reach? Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing • in the Mathematic.s Department Office between: the hours of 9 a.m.-11 a.m. and 2 p.m.-4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted will receive · the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions will be' posted on the bulletin board outside ·Bailey 106. ANNOUNCEMENT MACINTOSH USER GROUP Union Co.J,.lege Schenectady, N. Y • DATE: May 3rd, 1989 PLACE: CC410 TIME: 6:30pm to 8:OOpm TOPIC: HYPERCARD 1>.n overview of HyperCard with demonstrations of applications using a HyperCard base, and exploration of HyperCards potential as a teaching tool. - Preserttat;i.ons w:ill be given by representatives of App~e Compute;:: and .c:;o±nputer l?::o.fessiona~s, rnc. Beverages and de.sserts ~ill be served ~ .. ~ .... ~.It.,. It ,_ ~ ~-..w..,wtiC-C'IS If you have any questians please contact Theresa Pardo or i Susa~ Bdenza at t~_e O.f~ice .of Colllpllte~ s•rvic.es 370-6293. SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY savanna woodlands (bush) and grassland. The result is a high!)• eli verse array of other plant-eating species: \ ... those like Ute zebra, wildebeest, and gazelle that graze; those like the giraffe and kudu that browse on tender shoots, buds, twigs and leaves; and plant eating primates like the baboon and vervet monkey. These herbivores attract carnivores like the lion and cheetah.\ The . above is a brief summary of the ecosystem that the elephant lives in. With this, one can understand the importance that the elephant has in shaping and maiJ.Itaihing · that habitat. With this, one can share in the disgust of knowing that the main reason for the elephant's disappearance is poaching. The large demand for ivory on the world market has led to a \slaughtering orgy\ in Africa. African Elephant creating habitat Although tlte elephant certainly feels the effects of an increase in population; poaching is by far the biggest threat to the elephant's existence. The African elephant is now the focus of the 1 argest international effort ever to save an animal from extinction. The group, backed by 21 coU;ntries, is aimed at stopping the slaughtering now, and aims at nurturing the African elephant as a \keystone species\ as a long~term goal. The African Elephant Conservation Coordinating Group wm attempt to target . certa\in populMions of elephants in key habitat areas and focus attention and resources on them, rather than to try to \save the elephant.\ Of the remaining 650,000, the group plans to select about 250,000. The group will appeal.? to local residents' economic self-interests by allowing them to capitalize on the elepha·nt as an economic resource aside from its ivory. There are experimental programs now in progress that are working well. In one experiment the locals benefit from the tourist trade (i.e. see the ele}Jhant, give me some money). In another, residents \cull\ certain elephant herds to maintain the herds' health. The , village now has a leather and meat ind11stry, and legally sells the ivory from the dead elephants.. The difference between this and poaching is that. tile ·elephant herd is maintained and the local society benefits from the meat and leather. Let's not see a repeat of the buffalo, the bald eagle, the black rhinoceros, the dinosaur. SAVE THE ELEPHANT. Social Implications of I.Q. Tests By NATALIE BENNETT I.Q. tests have been very controversial over the years as their use has evoked increasingly adamant protest. · Their significance has been questioned time after time bat hundreds of them are still being given annually all over the world. Normally, I.Q. (Intelligence Quotient) tests are given to high school students and perhaps to tbose in middle schools. However, why would someone want to give such a test to infants as young as six months old? Well, accordingro many researchers around the country,. tests on these infants predict their scores on tile intelligence tests years later, when they begin attendirtg school. According to a psychologist at Case Western Reserve University, he can identify babies likely to be above average in intelligence and conversely, those who could . benefit from special enrichment programs. One benefit of this finding would be to test babies from poor families in order t() identify those who ar~ particularly intelligent, 311(1 - later on, give them the sort of advantages that children of upper-income parents are more likely to have. This psycho I ogis t' s suggestions of identifying intelligent and not-so- intelligent children raises some controversy because it pushes . basic psychological research into the realm of social policy; and also because it raises questions about a movement to predict intelligence, one that has been said to use the tests to promote its own goals and to hold down the downtroddeo. While the intelligence tests have proved accurate in predicting academic performances,· many psychologists stress that there is more to intelligence than success in schools.· According to Norman Krasnegor, of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, \there are many; many ways to think o{ intelligence other than a score on a test.\ The infant intelligence tests have intrigued psychologists because they are the first baby tests that have any predictive value. The effectiveness of thi~ tesJ has been established by researchers in recent long-term studies in which the babies were monitored until they reached school age. The tests attempt to measure babies' memories and are based on the assumption that they are more interested in stimuli not previously encountered. Babies below average intelligence will remeber fewer of the stimuli that they had seen before. The test is particularly intriguing to some doctors because they indicated that visual memory, which is linked to I.Q. in later years, may be fundamentally tied to the workings of the mind i.e. it may be a central aspect of intelligence from infancy upward~ Although enrichment courses have been found to help underprivileged children, other researchers think that the babies not chosen as above average would be stigmatized. This SC)rt of labeling could thus become detrimental since some people would be written off rather tltan trying to create an opportunity that would make the most of everyone. This test could be beneficial in helping to break the cycle of under- accomplishment. However, placing labels on a child is a totally different issue.

CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 9 SAVE THE ELEPHANT I 11nd the Gt1zelle, and the Baboon, 11nd the Giraffe ... By KEVIN GARDNER Science and Technology Editor In the 1930's there were approximately 30 mil rion elephants living south of the Saraha Desert in Africa. ln 1979, the number was 1.5 million. Today the estimate is at 650,000. There is much more to the disappearance of the elephant than just the extinction of the largest land animal left on earth, the \mythic symbol of a continent.\ With the elephant go hundreds of other species, from the wildebest to the giraffe to the baboon to the cheetah. The status of Africa as the richest continent in the world in terms of large mammals is at stake with the disappearance of the elephant. It is the elephant's appetite that makes it a creature of habitat and environment for other species to thrive in . An average elephant coasumes 300 pounds of vegetation a day. In this foraging the elephant kills small trees and underbrush and pulls branches off large trees. This creates open spaces in places that were previously woods, which allows different types of vegetation to flourish. Differeat types of vegetation attract different types of herbavores. Different types of herbavores attract different types of carnivores. Dr. David Western, a wildlife biologist who has been studying the elephant over the last 20 years in southern Kenya, has found that when elephants are allowed to roam freely they distribute in \intermediate densities.\ In this fashion they create a mixture of Problem of the Week A farmer has a large field containing a right triangle with posts X,Y, and Z at the midpoint of each of the sides of the triangle. A goat is tethered to post X on the hypotenuse, a sheep is tethered to post Y, and another sheep to post Z. The ropes are just long enough to allow each of the three animals to reach the two adjacent verticles. ' What is the total area the two sheep have to themselves - i.e.,. the area the goat cannot reach? Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing . in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. -11 a.m. and 2 p.m.-4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted will receive the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. __ _. . _ ANNOUNCEMENT MACINTOSH USER GROUP II DATE: PLACE: Union College Schenectady, N.Y. May 3rd, CC410 1989 TIME: 6:30pm to 8:00pm TOPIC: HYPERCARD An ove~view of Kype~Card wi~h de~onstrations of applications using a HyperCard base, and exploration of HyperCards potential as a teaching tool. Presentations will be given by representatives of Apple Computer and Computer Professionals, Inc. Beverages and desserts ¥ill be served CliCiiCiiCiiCii If you h~ve any questions please contact Theresa Pardo or , Su5an Brl.enz:a at t~e Office of Computer Services 370-6293 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY savanna woodlands (bush) and grassland. The result is a highly diverse array of other plant-eating species: \ ... those like the zebra, wildebeest, and gazelle that graze; those like the giraffe and kudu that browse on tender shoots, buds, twigs and leaves; and plant eating primates like the baboon and vervet monkey. These herbivores attract carnivores like the lion ilnd cheetah.\ The above is a brief summary of the ecosystem that the elephant lives in. With this, one can understand the importance that the elephant has in shaping and maintaining that habitat. With this, one can share in the disgust of knowing that the main reason for the elephant's disappearance is poaching. The large demand for ivory on the world market has led to a \slaughtering orgy\ in Africa. African Elephant creating habitat Although the elephant certainly feels the effects of an increase in population, poaching is by far the biggest threat to the elephant's existence. The African elephant is now the focus of the largest international effort ever to save an animal from extinction. The group, backed by 21 countries, is aimed at stopping the slaughtering now, and aims at nurturing the African elephant as a \keystone species\ as a long-term goal. The African Elephant Conservation Coordinating Group will attempt to target certain populations of elephants in key habitat areas and focus attention and resources on them, rather than to try to \save the elephant.\ Of the remaining 650,000, the group plans to select about 250,000. The group will appeal to local residents' Social Implications of By NATALIE BENNETT I.Q. tests have been very controversial over the years as their use has evoked increasingly adamant protest. Their significance has been questioned time after time but hundreds of them are still being given annaally all over the world. Normally, I.Q. (Intelligence Quotient) tests are given to high school students and perhaps to those in middle schools. However, why would someone want to give such a test to infants as young as six months old? Well, according to many researchers around the country, tests on these infants predict their scores on the intelligence tests years later, when they begin attending school. According to a psychologist at Case Western Reserve University, he can identify babies likely to be above average in intelligence and conversely, those who could benefit from special ernichment programs_ One benefit of this finding would be to test babies from poor families in order to identify those who are particularly intelligent, and later on, give them the sort of advantages that children of upper-income parents are more likely to have. This psychologist's suggestions of identifying intelligent and not-so- intelligent children raises some controversy because it pushes basic psychological research into the realm of social policy; and also because it raises questions about a movement to predict intelligence, one that has been said to use the tests to promote its own goals and to hold down the downtrodden. While the intelligence tests have proved accurate in predicting academic performances, many psychologists stress that there is more to intelligence than success in schools. According to Norman Krasnegor, of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, \there are many, many ways to think of intelligence other than a score on a test.\ The infant intelligence tests have intrigued psychologists because they are the first baby tests that have any predictive value. The effectiveness of this test has been established by researchers in recent long -term economic self-interests by allowing them to capitalize on the elephant as an economic resource aside from its ivory. There are experimental programs now in progress that are working well. In one experiment the locals benefit from the toLirist trade (i.e. see the elephant, give me some money). In another, residents \cull\ certain elephant herds to maintain the herds' health. The ·village now has a leather and meat industry, and legally sells the ivory from the dead elephants. The difference between this and poaclling is that the elephant herd is maintained and the local society benefits from the meat and leather. Let's not see a repeat of the buffalo, the bald eagle, the black rhinoceros, the dinosaur. SAVE THE ELEPHANT. I.Q. Tests studies in which the babies were monitored until they reached school age. The tests attempt to measure babies' memories and are based on the assumption that they are more interested in stimuli not previously encountered. Babies below average intelligence will remeber fewer of the stimuli that they nad seen before. The test is particularly intriguing to some doctors because they indicated that visual memory, which is linked to I.Q. in later years, may be fundamentally tied to the workings of the mind i.e. it may be a central aspect of intelligence from infancy upward. Although enrichment courses have been found to help underprivileged children, other researchers think tllat the babies not chosen as above average would be stigmatized. This sort of labeling could thus become detrimental since some people would be written off rather than trying to create an opportunity that would make the most of everyone. This test could be beneficial in helping to break the cycle of under- accomplishment. However, placing labels on a child is a totally different issue.

Page .10 CONCORl)lENSIS April 20, 1989 Founded at Unton College 1817 --....--- No No Quorum, Excus·es. The Student Forum holds a limited number of meetings. This term they have scheduled six open meetings in w hkh to discuss and vote upon specified topics. Within the time limits determined by Union's ·ten .week academic term. It is of the utmost importance that they stick to their schedule so that they will have time to ''review, recommend, or formulate policies in areas primarily or exclusively involving the student body\ as is-stated in their constitution. This term they have been unsuccessful in following their agenda. They have been unable to vote on such issues as the lottery system and Ca.m,p Union because they have repeatedly failed to hold a quorum. The Student Forum consists of 18 voting members; a majority of the members, plus one, constitutes a quorum. We, the student body have chosen a select few, whom we felt were responsible enough to handle the business of the . student body. It seems only fitting that a quorum be present at all open meetings in which the student body's needs are addressed. The Honor code is the topic for discussion at tonight's meeting. Assuming a quorum is present, perhaps an unsafe assumption, the Forum will be voting on three individual topics which will then need to travel through the proper channels before action can o.ccur. Thus, at this poi~t, it is impossible for them to uphold their current agenda. The Student Forum has an obligation to the student body. There are no excuses for failure to implement policy. With Student Forum elections taking place next week, we need to be very thoughtul when selecting our new representatives. Where's The Game Gone? Someone once said, \we are a Division III school with a Division I mentality.\ Why does it seem that the athletes here at this College are of a mind set that could easily be mistaken for athletes who are paid to play for schools? How much of this is encouraged or enforced by the coaches? One should recall that infamous saying: 'Yit's not whether you win or lose it's how you play the game.\ These are games-games are supposed to be fun. It seems that the importance is being placed on the win or the loss of the games. The distances travelled and the time put .into practices often times compel coaches and athletes to think this way. Often times the educational value of simply participating in a team sport may be lost. And, although it is the student's decision to participate on an intercollegiate level or not, it is 9ften the love of the sport that is lost. To represent one's school doing something one loves can be, perhaps, most fulfilling. However, when a coach feels it is necessary to discipline an athlete in such a manner that that athlete becomes unhappy playing the sport, it is time to take a closer look at the objectives of the program. It is also time to evaluate just how intense a. coach needs to be, regardles·s of division. Coaches are like professors. They set examples and they have the power to teach valuable lessons. They should be people worthy of one's respect and admiration. When these things are lost because of lligh goals or personal feelings it is certain that game is lost and the competition begins. LETTERS Stop Talking: Take Action To the Editors: I would like to commend those Union students who took part in the Pro-choice March on Washington two weeks ago. There are approximately a dozen on .campus. I commend them not for their beliefs, but rather for their enthusiasm and initiative to follow through on their convictions. However, the focus of this leuer turns to those who embrace the pro- choice platform but never \got around\ :to attending -the Washington rally. I think it is fine to argue strongly either way concerning the issae. However, if you d.o choose to argue, in this case Pro-choice, you should support it-- n.ot only through word~ but also through actions .• Idle talk, casual conversation and even heated. argument without action are non-p.Ioductive and bloated with self-importance. Planned Parenthood provided an excellent opportunity for you to effectively dt~monstrate your beliefs. If you support the Pro-cltoice platform .. you know the magnitude of the abortion issue at the moment. 600,000 others knew, and knew enough to ·act. These 600,000 demonstrators, rece.iving natiQna:l media coverage, accomplished far mme in dne day than you could in a mon:th~s worth of conversation. Tb.{)se who .missed the . opportunity to participate in this national statement, like myself, are pmbably regretting it. Birlitl)', the demonstration will go d()w·n in history. Secondly, 600,001 de:monstrat()!!S would have accomplislled more t1tan 600,000.·. Hand in hand with -this second ,p&int goes the fact that those who did not participate we.ren't able to significantly contribute to the Pro-choice m.o-vemertt. Therefore. my suggestion to yon, and one t will certainly attempt to heed: next time, don't just talk: about an issue; do someJllitl8 about it. Sincerely, Stevhanie Jarymi., '89 ' ' - ~ ' - -- - . . - . - - . - - . - . . . - - - - - . ' . . . Front Page Defies Proper Journalism To the Editors: I am writing in regard to last week's cover story entitled \Union Goes to D .. C.'' (Concordiensis. April 13. Tear Down TheNott To the Editors: I'm amused at the student push to \save the Nott.\ . The Nott Memorial is ugly. Worse, it is a Victorian violation of the Ramee plan; The present building should be toni down. A new Nott Memorial should be built using elements of the original Ramee design. Purpose? The new building could house a proper theater and all administrative offices. Then, Lamont House could revert to Delta Upsilon and the Ketz and Mavor Houses could be faculty residences once more; Very truly yours, Frederick V. Bronner, '46 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE ·oPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BETYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUB:MlTTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING \VEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LE'ITERS AND 1HOSEOVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPlED: 19&\>). The article both defied proper journalistic procedure and was offerts.ive to many .people, myselfincluded. The title of the article appe.ared to indicate that the road trip was one of school sanctioned proportion. While the event - was truly a newsworthy one, I certainly do not think the movement was given the imperial nod from Dean· Mammola. The article went on to discus.s the pro- choice side of the abortion rally wllile completely ~gnoring the anit-:abortion faction, which· was also present. This fact repr.esents low qu;ality journalism. The story further indicated true bias on :tile issue, stating, \It is hoped. that with the turnout · ()ll: Sunday in Washington, officials wilt not deny the weightinesss of the opinion of 600,000 people;'' Doe:s, this statement imply the 1~porting of the facts, or .of opinion? [)oes it reflect the opinjo.ns of Concordiensis? The school? One should hope not .. At least End Mondschein has the co11rtesy . to pllt his ideas on pa.ze two, tho11gh in his opinion, fll.e \atrocities\ of a conservatil,re Supreme Court can be sens;.ed through the cheap .paper. Sincerely, ·Carl R., Friedrich, Jr., '91

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Olnnrnrbirnsis Founded at Unton College 1877 ---- No No Quorum, Excuses., The Student Forum holds a limited number of meetings. This term they have scheduled six open meetings in which to discuss and vote upon specified topics. Within the time limits determined by Union's ten week academic term. It is of the utmost importance that they stick to their schedule so that they will have time to \review recommend, or formulate policies in areas primarily or exclusively involving the student body\ as is stated in their constitution. This term they have been unsuccessful in following their agenda. They have been unable to vote on such issues as the lottery system and Camp Union because they have repeatedly failed to hold a quorum. The Student Forum consists of 18 voting members; a majority of the members, plus one, constitutes a quorum. We, the student body have chosen a select few, whom we felt were responsible enough to handle the business of the student body. It seems only fitting that a quorum be present at all open meetings in which the student body's needs are addressed. The Honor code is the topic for discussion at tonight's meeting. Assuming a quorum is present, perhaps an unsafe assumption, the Forum will be voting on three individual topics which will then need to travel through the proper channels before action can o.ccur. Thus, at this point, it is impossible for them to uphold their current agenda. The Student Forum has an obligation to the student body. There are no excuses for failure to implement policy. With Student Forum elections taking place next week, we need to be very thoughtul when selecting our new representatives. Where's The Game Gone? Someone once said, \we are a Division III school with a Division I mentality.\ Why does it seem that the athletes here at this College are of a mind set that could easily be mistaken for athletes who are paid to play for schools? How much of this is encouraged or enforced by the coaches? One should recall that infamous saying: \It's not whether you win or lose it's how you play the game.\ These are games-games are supposed to be fun. It seems that the importance is being placed on the win or the loss of the games. The distances travelled and the time put into practices often times compel coaches and athletes to think this way. Often times the educational value of simply participating in a team sport may be lost. And, although it is the student's decision to participate on an intercollegiate level or not, it is often the love of the sport that is lost. To represent one's school doing something one loves can be, perhaps, most fulfilling. However, when a coach feels it is necessary to discipline an athlete in such a manner that that athlete becomes unhappy playing the sport, it is time to take a closer look at the objectives of the program. It is also time to evaluate just how intense a coach needs to be, regardless of division. Coaches are like professors. They set examples and they have the power to teach valuable lessons. They should be people worthy of one's respect and admiration. When these things are lost because of high goals or personal feelings it is certain that game is lost and the competition begins. LETTERS Stop Talking: Take Action To the Editors: I would like to commend those Union students who took part in the Pro-choice March on Washington two ~eeks ago. There are approximately a dozen on campus. I commend them not for their beliefs, but rather for their enthusiasm and initiative to follow through on their convictions. However, the focus of this letter turn.s to those who embrace the pro- choice platform but never \got around\ to attending the Washington rally. I think it is fine to argue strongly either way concerning the issue. However, if you do choose to argue, in this case Pro-choice, you should support it-- not only through words but also through action.s. Idle talk, casual conversation and even heated argument without action are non-productive and bloated with self-importance. Planned Parenthood provided an excellent opportunity for you to effectively demonstrate yol!lr beliefs. If you support the Pro-choice platform, you know the magnitude of the abortion issue at the moment. 600,000 others knew, and knew enough to act. These -600,000 demonstrators, recet vmg national media coverage, accomplished far more in one day than you could in a month's worth of conversation. Those who missed the opportunity to participate in this national statement, like myself, are probably regretting it. F-irstly, the demonstration will go down in history. Secondly, 600,001 demonstrators would have accomplished more than 600,000. Hand in hand with this second point goes the fact that those who did not participate weren't able to significantly contribute to the Pro-choice movement. Therefore, my suggestion to you, and one I wiH certainly attempt to heed: next time, don't just talk about an issue; do something about it. Sincerely, Stephanie Jaryna, '89 Front Page Defies Proper J oumalism To the Editors: I am writing in regard to last week's cover story entitled \Union Goes to D.C.\ (Concordiensis, April 13, Tear Down The Nott To the Editors: I'm amused at the student push to\ save the Nott.\ The Nott Memorial is ugly. Worse, it is a Victorian violation of the Ramee plan. The present building should be torn down. A new Nott Memorial should be built using elements of the original Ramee design. Purpose? The new building could house a proper theater and all administrative offices. Then, Lamont House could revert to Delta Upsilon and the Ketz and Mavor Houses could be faculty residences once more. Very truly yours, Frederick V. Bronner, '46 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE ·oPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETIERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M.ONTHE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. A.t~ONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS Wll...L NOT BE ACCEPTED. 1989). The article both defied proper journalistic procedure and was offensive to many people, myself included. The title of the article appeared to indicate that the road trip was one of school sanctioned proportion. While the event was truly a newsworthy one, I certainly do not think the movement was given the imperial nod from Dean Mammola. The article went on to discuss the pro- choice side of the abortion rally while completely ignoring the anit-abortion faction, which· was also present. This fact represents low quality journalism. The story further indicated true bias on the issue, stating, \It is hoped that with the turnout on Sunday in Washington, officials will not deny the weightmesss of the opinion of 600,000 people.\ Does this statement imply the reporting of the facts, or of opinion? Does it reflect the opinions of Concordiensis? The school? One should hope not. At least Brad Mondschein has the courtesy to put his ideas on page two, though in his opinion, the \ati'ocities\ of a conservative Supreme Court can be sensed through the cheap paper. Sincerely, Carl R. Friedrich, Jr., '91

CONCORDIENSIS April. 20, 1989 Page 11 Inter Departmentals Debated; Propos_al Offered To the Editors: ~ The past two .weeks an article and letter have appeared in Concordiensi$ concern- ing the validity of Inter~ departmental majors at Union. I would like to comnient on the letter written to the editor last week. The author's main point, \ .. .Inter-departmental majors hold merit .. :\ is a good one; how~ver, he runs into serious problems with the execution . of his argument making false accusations and . making rton-sensicaf state- ments. , Reading the article. over and over. I could n\'&t find one. negative view on 1-D majors stated by one or a group of faculty members which the· author accuses them of doing. The article states, \Jn some cases, this requirement causes students to/ falsify their 'scholarly' reasons for ~claring ail inter-departmental major.\ This sentence only leads one to believe that faculty members are aware of the problem with some students and that 1t should be monitored more closely. In summary, the article reports only that the Academic Affairs Committee has recently begun looking at the v-alidity of inter-departmental majors (an academic institution should always monitor and review its programs to better its programs and courses offered). The committee is only in the \gathering of information\ stage. No one has o~fered any arguments for or agairist this program. Professor Byron Nichols .has,. however, made a proposal. He propost(s that a major minor program be implemented. This is good for those students who major in one area and also take a lot of courses irt another (not necessarily) unrelated area of study. This ''minor\ (as I interpreted it) would be recognized by the school, unlike it is now. Here again, Professor Nichols' proposal does not suggest the discontinuation of inter- departmental m~j,ors. The .autbo~ also argues that, 'i.:. the coherence and interinesbing of majors should be a worry for the students themselves not for .some arbitrary planner.\ First of all, let us as students, give our teachers a little credit for their experience and intelligence. Currently, each student is as.signed to an academic advisor, not an academic dictator. Your advisor can't tell you w)1at courses to take, they can only advise and make the student aware ·Of th,e requirements she/he must fulfill within their major as well as· \brainstorm\ on ideas brought in by a student with a curiosity for a particular field or fields. One other argument the author states reads as follows: \Surely after competing to gain entrance to this institution and paying dearly to stay here; one should be able to exercise a copious amount of this choice.\ I find this to .be a serious attitude ·problem with the author as well as many students on the Union College campus who believe this notion. One real-life example of how this belief of paying \dearly\ for something does not mean \free run'' of it is the NYS Thruway. The average NYS resident must pay heavy taxes to build and maintain that rqad as well as pay for tolls. Even though they pay a lot in taxes and tolls it does not give . them the right to drive over 55 0 Jl§ mph. Looking throu.gh the Academic Register and comparing the requirements in different m:ajors I found that there is \freedom of choice•• when choosing courses for a .particular major contrary to what the author of the letter believed. Many departments require a s~cific type ofcourse· to be taken however they giv:e the student the choice to choose among several related • courses. The students with the least \freedom\ are the engineering students because · their program is more defined , and rigorous. However, even it1 these three departments, there is still choice to clloose among, say., design courses f()F example .. Overall, I found Benjamin Auslander~s letter .t<> be a complete misunder- standing of the article writteon and a misconceptio11;of Union •s academic system. I would like to offer to th<l Union community a proposal to improve the inter- dep.artmental system. Accord· ing to the Academic Registet:, the senior project should dra~ upon the fields which the student is studying. Current!)', it seems to me that this is not stressed to hD majors and tile student tends to only research one field. In particular, I found this to be true with economics I-D majors. An Industrial Economics major in their senior project should mesh the fielps of economics an:d · engineering. I propose that the thesis advisor and student make certain that this requirement is adhered to because supposedly the point of combining· these fields is to enhance tl1e student's intellectual curiosity. Richard M. Aguinaldo •g9 Industrial Economics The 1875 Initiative LETTERS \Safety Is Everybody's Business\ · I To the Editors: \Safety Is Everybodyas Business\ As saggested by this quote from Paul Mantica, Direct.<Jr of Safety and Security, Union College st11dents must take responsibility for their own safety. The Security and Safety Department exists for our protection,. however, tlley cannot function independently of the students. 1t is the obligation cfeach studen~ as a citizen of the Union College community, to stand up for their right5>. to security, safety, and peace of mind. In the time period from July 1, 1988 - April 9, 1989, 39 pull boxes were maliciotl;sly activated in Fox dormitory. Many other fire safety mechanisms have recently been abused. In light of these facts, students must be made aware·of the possible results of abusing the system, or tolerating abusers and work with Security to prevent potential dangers. False alarms cause people to . evacuate slowly in the event of an alarm or may even cause students to stop responding completely. The hazards of \crying wolf' seem obvious. It could result in the injury or death of a fellow student. We must act together as a student body to amake the obvious clear to the small percentage of students that remain ~ignorant of reality. The Security department does not exist to hinder our education experience in any way. Their Job is to protect us from danger and prevent potential mishaps. The Security and Safety staff is always wiUing to help solve pmblems and Mr. Mantiea's office is always o.pen to students for questions and comments. Monitoring the safety and security of 2000 students is not an easy job, in fact impossible if Security takes it on alone. Lend a hand-ITS EVERY- BODY'S BUSINESS! Concerned Student, Dan Waible '91 . West Dining Hall Deemed Unsanitary To the Edi(ors: The first thing that comes to mind when one thinks al>out eating in West is obviously the food. However, have you ever considered how sanitary the dining hall is? Have you ever picked up a bowl or spoon that looks like it was never cleaned? . Have you ever found hair in i your food? Well, if yot~'ve I eaten in West, you probably I have had a similar experience. 1 The conditions in our di11ing ) halls are appalling. The people : who serve and handle the food 1 we eat do not wear plastic 1 gloves, unlike those who work in dining halls on other campuses. For obvious reasons not wearing gloves is very unsanitary. This thougllt is especially troublesome wben one watches their sandwich being made at the deli bar. Also, some of the people who handle food smoke in the dining hall. I know of many students who don't want tlleir sandwich to be made by someone who just smoked a cigarette. It is bad enough eating in a room in which someone is smoking, and it's worse to eat food touched by someone who just finislled a cigarette. Similarly, the people who work in the dining halls usually do not wear their hair tied back or in a hair net. Some of them do wear little white hats but how effective can that method be. The thought of finding_ ha:ir in one's food is completely disgusting, yet there are no real precautions taken to prevent ~mch an occurrence. It would be a lot more sanitary if the people who cooked and served the food simply tied their hair back. Also, it is very common to pick up dirty silverware, trays, cups and bowls. It is understandable that there are a lot of dishes to clean but that is no excuse for not getting them fully clean. Other schools that serve mote students don't have the same problem, thus there must be something that can be done to prevent this 'from happening. It is not a large request to ask that food be served on clean plates and with dean silverware. It W<mld only take a little more effort to make the dining halls cleaner and more sanitary; the food is another issue. Jessica Scheinman '92 WANT TO LOSE FRIENDS? TAMPERING WITH FIRE SAFETY ( EQUIPMENT CANDO IT. PERMANENTLY. .. 11

CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 11 Inter Departmentals Debated; Proposal Offered To the Editors: The past two weeks an article and letter have appeared in Concord.iensis concern- ing the validity of Inter- departmental majors at Union. [ would like to comment on the letter written to the editor last week. The author's main point, \ .. .Inter-departmental majors hold merit. .. \ is a good one; however; he runs into serious problems with the execution of his argument making false accusations and making non-.sens:ical state- ments. Reading the article over and over, I could not find one negative view on I-D majors stated by one or a group of faculty members which the author accuses them of doing. The article states, \In some cases, this requirement causes students to falsify their 'scholarly' reasons for declaring an inter-departmental major.\ This sentence only leads one to believe that faculty members are aware of the problem with some students and that it should be monitored more closely. In summary, the article reports only that the Academic Affairs Committee has recently begun looking at the validity of inter-departmental majors (an academic institution should always monitor and review its programs to better its programs and courses offered). The committee is only in the \gathering of information\ stage. No one has offered any arguments for or against this program. Professor Byron Nichols has, however, made a proposal. He proposes that a major minor program be implemented. This is good for those students who major in one area and also take a lot of courses in another (not necessarily) unrelated area of study. This \minor\ (as I interpreted it) would be recognized by the school, unlike it is now. Here again, Professor Nichols' proposal does not suggest the discontinuation of inter- depart:m.ental majors. The author also argues that, \ ... the coherence and intermeshing of majors should be a worry for the students themselves not for some arbitrary planner.\ First of all, let us as students, give our teachers a little credit for their experience and intelligence. Currently, each student is assigned to an academic advisor, not an academic dictator. Your advisor can't tell you what courses to take, they can only advise and make the student aware of the requirements she/he must fulfill within their major as well as \brainstorm\ on ideas brought in by a student with a curiosity for a particular field or fields. One other argument the author states reads as follows: \Surely after competing to gain entrance to this institution and paying dearly to stay here, one should be able to exercise a copious amount of this choice.\ I find this to be a serious attitude problem with the author as well as many students on the Union College campus who believe this notion. One real-life example of how this belief of paying \dearly\ for something does not mean \free run\ of it is the NYS Thruway. The average NYS resident must pay heavy taxes to build and maintain that road as well as pay for tolls. Even though they pay a lot in taxes and tolls it does not give them the right to drive over 55 cdlay 0 ]_§ 0 Jl§ 0 ll§ mph. Looking tluougfu the Academic Register and comparing the requirements in different majors I found that there is \freedom of choice\ when choosing courses for a particular major contrary to what the author of the letter believed. Many departments require a specific type of course to be taken however they give the student the choice to choose among several related courses. The students with the least \freedom\ are the engineering students because their program is more defined and rigorous. However, even in these three departments, there is still choice to choose among, say, design courses for example. Overall, I found Benjamin Auslander's letter to be a complete misunder- standing of the article written and a misconception of Union's academic system. I would like to offer to the Union community a proposal to improve the inter- departmental system. Accord- ing to the Academic Register, the senior project should draw upon the fields which the student is studying. Currently, it seems to me that this is not stressed to I-D majors and the student tends to only research one field. In particular, I found this to be true with economics I-D majors. An Industrial Economics major in their senior project should mesh the fields of economics and engineering. I propose that the thesis advisor and student make certain that this requirement is adhered to because supposedly the point of combining these fields i:s to enhance the student's intellectual curiosity. Richard M. Aguinaldo '89 Industrial Economics The 1875 Initiative LETTERS \Safety Is Everybody's Business\ , To the Editors: \Safety Is Everybody's Business\ As suggested by this quote from Paul Mantica, Director of Safety and Security, Union College students must take responsibiHty for their own safety. The Security and Safety Department exists for our protection, however, they cannot function independently of the students. It is the obLigation of each student, as a citizen of the Union College community, to stand up for their rights to security, safety, and peace of mind. ln the time period from July 1, 1988 - April 9, 1989, 39 pull boxes were maliciously activated in Fox dormitory. Many other fire safety mechanisms have recently been abused. In light of these facts, students must be made aware of the possible results of abusing the system, or tolerating abusers and work with Security to prevent potential dangers. False alarms cause people to . evacuate siowly in the t:vent of an alarm or may even cause students to stop responding completely. The hazards of \crying wolf' seem obvio1:1s. It could result in the injury or death of a fellow student. We must act together as a student body to amake the obvious clear to the small percentage of students that remain ignorant of Feality. The Security department does not exist to hinder our education experience in any way. Their job is to protect us from danger and prevent potential mishaps. The Security and Safety staff is always willing to help solve problems and Mr. Mantica's office is always open to students for questions and comments. Monitoring the safety and security of 2000 students is not an easy job, in fact impossible if Security takes it on alone. Lend a hand-ITS EVERY- BODY'S BUSINESS! Concerned Student, Dan Waible '91 West Dining Hall Deemed Unsanitary To the Editors: The first thing that comes to mind when one thinks about eating in West is obviously the food. However, have you ever considered how sanitary the dining hall is? Have you ever picked up a bowl or spoon that looks like it was never cleaned? Have you ever found hair in . your food? Well, if you've :eaten in West, you probably ! have had a similar experience. ' The conditions in our dining . halls are appalling. The people . who serve and handle the food we eat do not wear plastic gloves, unlike those who work in dining halls on other campuses. For obvious reasons not wearing gloves is very unsanitary. This thought is especially troublesome when one watches their sandwich being made at the deli bar. Also, some of the people who handle food smoke in the dining hall. I know of many students who don't want their sandwich to be made by someone who just smoked a cigarette. It is bad enough eating in a room in which someone is smoking, and it's worse to eat food touched by someone who just finished a cigarette. Similarly, the people who work in the dining halls usually do not wear their hair tied back or in a hair net. Some of them do wear little white hats but how effective can that method be. The thought of finding. ha·ir in one's food is completely disgusting, yet there are no real precautions taken to prevent such an occurrence. It would be a lot more sanitary if the people who cooked and served the food simply tied their hair back . Also, it is very common to pick up dirty silverware, trays, cups and bowls. It is understandable that there are a lot of dishes to clean but that is no excuse for not getting them fully clean. Other schools that serve more students don't have the same problem, thus there must be something that can be done to prevent this from happening. It is not a large request to ask that food be served on clean plates and with clean silverware. It would only take a little more effort to make the dining halls cleaner and more sanitary; the food is another issue. Jessica Scheinman '92 WANT TO LOSE FRIENDS? TAMPERING WITH FIRE SAFETY EQUIPMENT CAN DO IT . PERMANENTLY.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 LETTERS Observe the Implication of Choice \Weakening Press'' Implicitly Ad.vocates Bias~d ~ress To the Editors: What lies within a word? .With the recent demonstraton in Washington, DC, the word \choice... has entered into the forefront of national discussion Though the word has many times been used to characterize those people who advo.cate a woman~s freedom to determine the fate of her pregnancy' this word has other far more reaching implications. \Choice\~ is this no.t what prompted former Pr.esident Ronald Reagan to characterize the Soviet Union as an \e:vil empire?\ Mr. Reagan observed that the Soviet citizens had no choice in the realms of religion and politics, they could in no way influence their nation's leadership and workings. They were helpless, vulnerable to the whim of the Communist party. In a similar vein, one may view the controversy over such a seemingly harmless issue as seat belt legislation, as a question of choice. In opposition to the proposed law, it was argued that such a stipulation would deny an American his/her right to personal freedom. If the government could require wearing a seatbelt, where would the line be drawn upon official intervention into other matters of private choice? The issue was such a heated one, that in some states the law was not allowed to take effect. Indeed, integral to our very Americcmism is our emphasis upon personal freedom and choice. It may be found in the lines of fhe Constitution guaranteeing \life liberty and the pursuit of happiness\ or in the· homes of U.S. citizens viewing the repression of human freedom in South Africa and the Soviet Union with revulsion and disdain. \Choice\ is not only a woman's issue. ';Choice is not only an abortion advocate's issue. \Choice is fundamentally an American issue. One may ask, \what lies within a word? If the word · happens to be \choice\ the answer just may he this nation's integrity in upholding . its most fundamental principle- - the right to personal freedom and choice. Sincerely, Ruth Cohen, '89 LAST NIG.HT'S FALSE ALARM was pulled by i 1. I. I a fellow resident .• . • •• TONI'GHl'S -: \FALSE ALARM\ could kill. -For everyone's sake -Don't play with fire alarms -Take any alarm seriously -Any \prankster\ should '~ii!\- be reported· To the Editors: Afte.r re.ading Brad· Mondschein 's article \Weakening Press Coverage Focuses on the Small Issues\ (Concordiensis, ·April 13, p.2}, one is left to wonder if perhaps he was tossing outrageous theories to test the response and if he truly believed what he was saying. Also, one must wonder what sources where involved in the preparation of the article. The NaHon? Psychology Today? The People's Daily World? GQ? Actually, his piece did have a thesis, and it con:tinues to astound the thoughtful reader. Mr. Mondschein argues that the press has somehow failed 'beGause it neglected to note the \issue of what Reagan did to the Supreme Court while everyone stood by and did nothing.\ Instead, the press has pointed out and reported on specific issues such as abortion and affirmative action. Mr. Mondschein would say this is deplorable. What is wrong with a President implementing his agenda, after having been elected to do precisely that? The appointment of Federal · Court J11stices is .a.fuodamental exercise of :presidential power. Why cl:la11ge these time-tested institu ti(}nS. ~o meet the whimsLcal <lesires ofidealogues and :special-interest groups? The 11:r.es~ was. right to not coatinll·'211y focu.s · on the direcfi()n of the Reagan com;t and rej)&rt each issue on a case- · by-casce basis. They accepted . the <:()rtse.tvative swing as simply a .President having a lastimg; i.nlpact of the Judiciary, like all)' ?resident, Democrat ot ReiJolllican, should. So Mr. M6nclsc,llern is actually making the.,c.as~ . .ia public and in print, for a hia~ed press. But, the press :sll()uld only inveigh · ag:ai nst those whom Mr. Mon·dsd:1ein ·ideologically opp:>ses. Mr. Mondschein 's preilictio11s. ·are astounding. SQntellow, the author can see inside tile head of Just.ices . . o·c~nnor and Kennedy and thu~ preqict, definitively; that \aror.tion wjll be overturned, if nat tltis year then in :two years.\ He predicts the repealof affirmativ-e action completely and tbea asserts that the Court will try to overi:Um Brown v. Tl1e Board of Education. Obv~olisly Mr. Mondschein knows something the rest of us Q.on't The author is cnallef!gec::l to ,produce a single precedent or study that would suggest the Supreme Court is interested in returning the United StateR to · .segregatetllooch counters. The Supreme Court is designed to be above public opinion, popular culture, and the press. If sensitivity to press clippings or .public reaction is to take prec.edence .over correctly deciding· the si¥'cific legal question at band. one can consider the cause of justice just about finished. Public opinion is emotional, and emotions .c;<are inherently subjective. This is ptecisely why the Supreme Court should not ·pay any attention to the pro-choiCe demonstration in Washington two weeks ago. 'f o argue that the press should be m.ore active in an ideological endeavor only brings further attention to the existing problem with the U.S. press. This is something liberals shouldn't want to do. Don't worry, Mr. Mondschein, the press is on your side as it is. Cordially, Daniel J. Keniry '91 Prof. Russell Leng, from Middlebury College, will speak on \Risky Realpolitik: Game theory and learning in . . . '' 3 30 recurrtng cnses at .. : ·. p.m. on Thursday, April 27th in College Center 410. r-----------...;....--------~-----··, I BECOME A MEMBER OF COMMITTEE FOR NEXT YEAR! The Committee on Committees is accepting APPLICATIONS for the following committees and subcouncils for the 1989-90 school year. · ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COUNCIL ACADEMIC COMPUTING SUBCOUNCIL ADMISSIONS UAISON CO:MMTITEE ATHLETIC LIAISON COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ON HONORARY DEGREES CONCERT CO:MMITIEE CONDUCT COMMITIEE COMMITTEE ON COMMITIEES Fll..M COMMITfEE FINANCE COMMITIEE HUMAN SUBJEctS RESEARCH COMMITTEE PLANNING AND PRIORITIES COMMITIEE RESEARCH AND GRANT COMMITIEE SOCIAL COMMITIEE SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES COMMITI'EE STUDENT AFFAIRS COMMIT}EE SPEAKERS BOARD . STANDING ON ST.LJDBNTS COMMfiTEE · . STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COMMITTEE. STUDENT GROUNDS COMMIITEE PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT THE STl.JDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE- FOURTH FLOOR, COLLEGE CENTER Economics Club Lunch Table Wednesdays 12:55 in Carnegie Room 302 Economics Crisis Center If you need help in Intro or any core courses Social Sciences Room 1 03 4:00 ·- 5:00 pm $50 Gift Certificate to the Cranbeny Bog for the winner of the UNION IDSTORICAL .:TRIVIA CONTEST Sponsored by the STUDENT ALUMNI ASSOCIATION . ( pick up forms outside the main dining hall of the College Center I . Contest Runs May 8th :•,_12tl~ ,, .l '•

'• . ' CQNCORDlENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 13 Pres.ident V.P. For Administration V.P .. For Fin.ance - _Seni:or · ;R.epresentatives t'o': Alum.ni Council . ' . STU·DENT FORUM ' ' EL.E·CTlO·N·S ' . ' . ) ' 'TAK·E NOTICE, -U:NIO:N· s·TUD·E.NTS V .P .. for Academic Affairs . Junior Trustee Sophmore, Junior, Senior Class Representatives In the student activities Office 4th Floor College Center . \Th:e· Student Fotum is . . .responsible for promoting the student body of Union College.\ The .elected off.icialq administer the student activity fee, offi·oially recognize and supervise student organizations, and through student membership on GoHege committees, advise the College ,Administration_ of issues pertaining to the· student body.\ Start Getting Your Teams Ready. The Delta Gamma Olympics are May 19th 346·9034 BUFFALO STYLE WINGS (with :FREE taters) 10 ....... , ........................... 3~79 60 ................................. 19.99 15 .................................. :5.79 OO; ............................... Z/.59 ::ll ........... , ................... 1,1.49 1lXL .............................. 34:49 '50 ................................. 17.29 200.: ................................ 67.99 Sauces: Barbeque, Louisiana Mild, Medium, Hot, Sicilian Mild, Medium Hot , - - .... - ,.. - - ... - - :- KOOPON - - - ... - - - - - - - ·, : 10 FREE WINGS : '~ . . . . . ' ~ ~ When You Purchase 50 or More ~ ,~ . . , . I ~ - - - - - ..., - - - - - KOQP,QN ..., - - - - - - - - - - • Free delivery for orders of $10 or more Deliveries on the hour ''Mom says the house just istit the same without me, even though its a lot cleaner.,., just because your Mom is far away, doesn't mean you can't be close. You can still share the love and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Service. It costs less than you · think to hear that she likes the peace and quiet, hut she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can clean your room later. Reach out and touch someone~ A TaT ·--The right choice. Seniors! TIME IS RUNNING OUT! If you have not yet given to the '89 Senior Gift Drive \Is there life after Union,\ call x617 5 today - Make a pledge. vote on our class gift and get one of a · select number of our remaining class T -shirts! SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY IN ADMISSIONS GATESMAN AND POTENTIAL GATESMENt We have full time positions openings. For more information, please contact Dianne Crozier in admissions 370-6112, or apply to Personnel Office. \ -

I ' . ~ : Page 14 CONCORDlENSIS April 20, 1989 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT . . \Say Anything'' Says Absolutely Nothing Will Lloyd let his hair grow? In all seriousness, though, Say ~nything isn't all bad. Despite Us pi1:inful lack of originality an:d overall mOOiocrity, it. has some decent moments (entirely supplied by Cusack and his nftbeat friend Corey) and a few bearable scenes. . - - his sis.ter <,Jpted to join him in As far as the plot is concerned, although th.e developing relationship . between Diane and Lloyd is exciting enough, the plot actually thickens~ Ooh, ahh. · Diane's father, the saint-like proprleter of the nursing home, is having problems with the . IRS and the FBI. Apparently he's been stealing from his c geriatric patrons as soon as this d.opey mess is inconceivable. (Maybe an Oscar nomination doesn't do enough for,your self-~steem, I don't know.) Throughout their careers, the biggest problem for· both brother and sister, 1 think, has been an auraction to stuniil scripts. But why are so many movies like this? It'.s unbelievable,, really. How can you .spend. millions of dollars and produce the same dreadful junk? Does one person wJi.te all of them? And is he making a fortune d9ing it? Wbat_do the writers and directors say to themselves after they see the finished_ product-- \Oh well\~or \Ugh\ or \God that's great!?\ Ies just too bad that both Cusacks wound up in this trite and uninteresting movie, because they both seem to have some talent. Joan Cusack, excited to be in a real movie. they kick. He's also having problems with his daughter, with whom he is constantly . verging· on the incestuous. Mt; 'By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor intelligence can be found in her briHiant commencement speech, which ended with the words, \when I look into our future, I feeL.. scared.\ Wow. Diane has been so busy perfecting herself that she now feels her peers \don't really know her.i• Enter Lloyd Dobbler (John Cusack). Lloyd, surprisingly enough, is not the Diane Cord (Tone Skye of Nightmare On Elm Street fame) is a unique individual. Not only does she work diligently in h~r father's nursing horne, but she is also her high scbool valedictorian. A wonderful indication of her FOR A GOOD TIME ... . __ Do you b.ave the Union Coll~e hlues? Are you tired of swilling beer (not to mention having it spilled on 'you) in fraternity basements? Wouldn't you rather enjoy great live entertainment? Well, on Thursday, April 6, I did just that at one of the nicest off-campus bars in the area. I enjoyed ten stand-up comedians performing at Nightshift. The comedians who performed comprise a traveling comedy troupe which perfonns at many clubs in the area, including the Comedy Works. The comedians were trying out ne:w acts which included. irnprovisarion, audience participation, and singing. , Even though you missed this .first performance, you can enjoy Comedy Night again. TONIGHT at Nightshift. The show starts at 10:00 p.m., and the cover charge is only $2.00, 1 · along with a · special of $1.00 Molson bottles. Nightshi:ft is only. a short .walk froJ:n campus, locatw on North !ay Street, so why don't you come _down tonight for a laugh? . '. ,.,._• • ~- •, - • •' • • • \'' - -. • •• .... • • A ' • ~- •• ,:. :!.!' • <\ •. •• -- • A Plateful. of Questions Discussions PRESENTS This Week's Question:· ''What Will You Be Like In 10 Years?\ All Are Welcome! Bring your lunch 4th Floor Lounge of the College Center Tuesdays 12:00 - 12:45 pm class valedictorian type. He doesn't like old people, and he has no plans for the future. His sister (Joan Cusack) wattts him to be an uncle instead of a playmate-to her son. Get the picture? Guess what will happen. Will Lloyd successfully introduce Diane to her high school class? Will Diane alter her wardrobe while in England on a scholarship? Cord doesn't like Lloyd (surprise), and this creates an enormous -conflict for Diane. As far as the characters are concerned, the performance by John Cusack partially saves this film (or at least makes it watchable)~ Cusack always has charm and could probably be great with .a decent script. Why Say Anything, needless to .say, really i-sn't worth watching. It's just the same old ·thing rehashed in the same boring way. Wait until it comes to HBO. Or better yet, write to the Motion Picture Association and complain. UNION REf/lEW OF BOOKS Rachel and Her Children JJy Jonathan Kozol May.17 .. Mobil Lounge . . .... . ·~~Jr.· Floor 1:00 p.m. **The May selectioll is ·now lJn sale at the CQllege Bookstore for $4.50 which is half of tlte regular price. , ·

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS April 20, 1989 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT - . \Say Anything\ Says Absolutely Nothing his sis.ter opted to join him in this dopey mess is inconceivable. {Maybe an Oscar nomination doesn't do enough for your self-esteem, I don't know.) Throughout their careers, the biggest problem for· both bFother and sister, I think, has been an attraction to stunicl scripts. But why are so many movies like this? It's unbelievable, really. How can you spend minions of dollars and produce the same dreadful junk? Does one person write all of them? And is he making a fortune doing it? What do the writers and directors say to themselves after they see the finished product-- \Oh well\ or \Ugh\ or \God that's great!?\ It's just too bad that both Cusacks wound up in this trite and uninteresting movie, because they both seem to have some talent. Will Lloyd let his hair grow? In aH seriousness, though, Say Anything isn't all bad. Despite its painful lack of originality and overall mediocrity, it has som.e decent moments (entirely supplied by Cusack and his offbeat frieRd Corey) and a few bearable scenes. As far as the plot is ~,concerned, although the u..l developing relationship between Diane and Lloyd is exciting enough, the plot actually thickens. Ooh, ahh. Diane's father, the saint-like proprieter of the nursing home, is having problems with the IRS and the FBI. Apparently he's been stealing from his Joan Cusack, excited to be in a real movie. . geriatric patrons as soon as they kick. He's also having problems with his daughter, with whom he is constantly verging on the incestuous. Mr. By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor Diane Cord (Tone Skye of Nightmare On Elm Street fame) is a unique individual. Not only does she work diligently in her father's nursing home, but she is also her high school valedktorian. A wonderful indication of her intelligence can be found in her brilliant commencement speech, which ended with the words, \when I lo<Jk into our future, I feel... scared.\ Wow. Diane has been so busy perfecting herself that she now feels her peers \don't really know her.\ Enter Lloyd Dobbler (John Cusack). Lloyd, surprisingly enough, is not the FOR A GOOD TIME .... Do you have the Union College ulucs? Are you tired of swilling beer (not to mention having it spilled oa you) in fraternity basements? Wouldn't you rather enjoy great live entertainment? Well, on Thursday, April 6, I did. just that at one of the nicest off-campus bars in the area. I enjoyed ten stand-up comedians performing at Nightshift. The comedians who performed comprise a traveling comedy troupe which performs at many clubs in the area, including the Comedy Works. The comedians were trying out new acts which included improvisation, audience participation, and singing. Even though you missed this first performance, you can enjoy Comedy Night again TONIGHT at Nightshift. The show starts at 10:00 p.m., and the cover charge is only $2.00,1 along with a special of $1.00 Molson bottles. Nightshift is only a short walk from campus, located on North Jay Street, so why don't you come down tonight for a laugh? A Plateful of Questions Discussions PRESENTS This Week's Question: ''What Will You Be Like In 10 Years?\ All Are Welcome! Bring your lunch 4th Floor Lounge of the College Center Tuesdays 12:00 - 12:45 pm class valedictorian type. He doesn't like old people, and he has no plans for the future. His sister (Joan Cusack) wants him to be an uncle instead of a playmate to her son. Get the picture? Guess what will happen. Will Lloyd successfully introduce Diane to her high school class? Will Diane alter her wardrobe while in England on a scholarship? Cord doesn't like Lloyd (surprise), and this cr.eates an enormous conflict for Diane. As far as the characters aie concerned, the performance by John C11sack partially saves this film (or at least makes it watchable). Cusack always has charm and could proba~ly lle great with a decent script. Why Say Anything, needless to say, really isn't worth watching. It's just the same old thing rehashed in the same boring way. Wait until it comes to HBO. Or better yet, write to the Motion Picture Association and complain. ******* UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS Rachel and Her Children By Jonathan Kozol May 17 lHobil Lounge 4th Floor 1:0.0 p.m. **The May selection is now on sale at the College Bookstore for $4.50 which is lzalf of the t•egular price. ·! ,.

' ,- '\ ll CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 - . . .~ Page 15 ARTS~ ENT~RTAINMENT .r-----~--~~~~~~----------------~ Union's \Agnes of God'' Ho~~~f~PEs Aries: Roses are red, violets are blue, .if you have By DINA SCHWEITZER \Agnes of God\ written by John Pielmf;lier and featuring Michelle Maratto; Marina Berna.rd, and Johanna Campbell, is a compelling play. The plot .revolves around a nun whose desperation to hide a sin forces her to rely on her own faith in God to deny the,ill (loin,g from which she suffers. The two~act play is slow in the beginning, picks up speed right before the. intermission, and is q,uite riveting in the end. Throughout the play each woman reveals her true nature. Ultimately it is Agnes that the audience grows fond of and as a result, the audience wants to believe in herplea of innocence. . The audience's empathy towards Agnes draws attention to her and away from the conventional conVictions. And, even at the end of the play, the audience is left to question what really happened. \Agnes of God\ directed by Barry K. Smith, was performed in Union's Nott Memorial. The set was minimal, consisting of two chairs, a desk, and an ashtray with cigarettes. The lighting, too~ was simple, but very important to each scene because of the protagaonists' flashbacks. Due to the natlll'e C>f the flashbacks, it was n~ssary to sh,ow a split in the tirne· frame of a scene without rell1.oving anyone from the sta~e. This task was achieved ver:Y smoothly using lighting ee.cbniques devised by John Miller. The costumes were in<licative-of each character, and .U:e overall simplicity of the set seNed its purpose for the play. Michelle Maratto., who iiJOrtrayed the strong willed . ])o.()tor Martha Livingston, \be~an and ended the play witll a lll()tto'logue while a diro Jight sbone above her. The· d.oct-Gr h~d her moments tow.a:rds the e11dof Act I wh~n her character e\Voked some sort of emotional .re~;ponse from the audience. H~>wever, she did not seem v-e~y c~omfortable with her s<:ript until the middle of Act Il, This is not to say that Man:ato failed in her duties as · lilt active member of the play, bu..t rather that the existence of tJJtdesirable pauses between her :l:i~hting of a cigarette and the recitation of her lines caused an awkward lull in several scenes. As .a result, the beginning seemed rather stilted and in tum, seemed to cause the a~tress to ' become a little tJtlnerved.. -The other two actresses were ~ery powerful. Not only did tlley add the strength and ··E~E--, ·M·ajo,rs or Any Techn.ical Wizard - WRUC 89.7 FM is looking for an ASSISTANT .. TECHNICAL DIRECTOR. Interested - individuals should .at. the x6881. Karen calt Bruce or Station x6151 or at Get involved . in the group on campus an 'RUC geek. hippest become vitality needed in the play, but they had a good sense of control overtheir characters and over the.ir lines. Marina Bernard,. who portrayed Mother Miriam Ruth, was convincing as a nun whose objective was to vindicate Agnes' innocence. She served as the \protector\ and as the divine \Mother\ whose relationship with Agnes was sacr~d and very important to the play's plot. fohanna Campbell, who portrayed Agnes, was exceptionally· compelling, causing the audience to feel Agnes' phy~ical pain and her confusion .provoked by the doctor's interrogation. Tn fact, the audience was overwhelmed with Campbell's explosive portrayal of the \innocent\ Agnes. It is in the second act where all of the characters climax., as they attack and defend others and themselves. On the whole, the play was emotionally disturbing and intriguing for it brought to the fore the ,question of innocence, rape, murder, and God, The play leaves us with a sense of unknowing as we question the reliability of Agnes' innocence, and as we are left to ponder the issues brought to light by this play, the audience walks away fulfilled as well as empty- handed. Have you ,heard-.o:f MIRACLE LEGION? They'll be here for Fitzgerald Ll;ldlow Day, but. .. WIN THEIR LATEST RELEASE \ME AND MR. RAY\ NOW ON WRUC 89.7 FM CAMPUS MOVIES WED. 7-9-11 THI NAKID GUN ''\'''' 1i\ent pa\\;i IQUlD\ YOU'VE READ THE AD, NCW SfHI£ MOVIl IPG·t~I·~.-.A.ffil!AM]~~rJJ.~~~~ (~) FR~, SAT., SUN. 7-9-11 too many holes. buy new shoes. Happy Birthday Cameron Kenny. Taurus: There are no white horses transporting possible lovers. Look out instead for mountain bikes. Gemini:_ Responsibilities make you grow ... boring. Play and be merry! Cancer: Beware the san is out. Smoking is dangerous. Asbestos is not good to breathe. And, radiation is not your friend. Leo: Concern for the environment is a turn on. Next time you put something in the recycle bin you'll make a heart go pitter'-pat. Virgo: Money can't buy friends~ But it can buy respect from scorpios. Libra: Hell week's over. Stop looking like a spook. . Scorpio: You deserve the best! Make sure you get it! ·, Sagittarius: :Schenectady will never see snow again. Become concerned, write your local representative about global warming. Or sit back and enjoy. Capricorn: Bet all of your money, your favorite sweater, and your first-born on the C()ncordiensis' softball team's victory over WRUC. Aquarius: Bored? Household items can entertain. Paper dips make jewelry, calculators can form words, and there's always saran wrap for ... Pisces: Buck up crumpet, love is in the wings. . Pet Gemetary Disorganized She's Out of Crime Control Scorpion Say Anything Fletch Lives Pet Cemetery Major League Rain Man Rescuers Dream Team See You in the Dead Calm Morning Call Theaters for Show Times .. r--- ----···.Clip 'n' Save ••.• -------, I · . - I 1 THE NEW 8.97 1 1 Why the people in hell don't read the NEW 8.97; their I 1 definition of \new music'' is Mozart going amuck, and it's I 1 HELL for crying out loud! They don't deserve it. Why the I I people in hell should read the NEW 8.97; the Cult have a I I firm hold on the top spot, with Miracle Legion_ destined for 1 I brighter things to come. Also, this countdown might get II some folks to purgatory. Thank you. I Name Title Label I 1 1. The Cult Sonic Temple Beggar's I 1 Banquet I I . 2. The Cure 12\ \Fascination St.\ Elektra 1 3. drivin' and crying' Mystery Road Island I 1 4. XTC Oranges & Lemons Geffen I I 5. Morrissey 12\ \Last of the Famous\ Sire 6. Depeche Mode 101 Sire 1 I 7. FIREHOSE FROMOHIO SST I I 8. Blue Clocks Green Hemingway Pre Post Da I I 8.97 Miracle LegiOh Me & Mr. Ray Rough Trade . I .II I Eyebrow Raising Song· 0' The Week 1 . I, Cindy Lee Berryhill- \Me Steve, Kirk, & Keith\ I I Notes: 1 L:y tuned . for Miracle Legion giveaways. 1 ~~----------------------------------------------------------~ ........................................ .. -,:_,. / '

\ ~· I !1 l ·.! ( CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 15 ARTS & ENT~RT AIN-MENT Union's \Agnes of God\ By DINA SCHWEITZER \Agnes of God\ written by John Pielmeier and featuring Michelle Maratto, Marina Bernard, and Johanna Campbell, is a compelling play. The plot revolves around a nun whose desperation to hide a sin foFces her to rely on her own faith in God to deny the ill doing ft:om which she suffers. The two-act play is slow in the beginning, picks up speed right before the intermission, and is quite riveting in the end. Throughout the play each woman reveals her true nature. Ultimately it is Agnes that the audience grows fond of and as a result, the audience wants to believe in her plea of innocence. The audience's empathy towards Agnes draws attention to her and away from the conventional convictions. And, even at the end of the play, the audience is left to question what really happened. \Agnes of God\ directed by Barry K. Smith, was performed in Union's Nott Memorial. The set was minimal, consisting of two chairs, a desk, and an ashtray with cigarettes. The lighting, too, was simple, but very important to each scene because of the protagaonists' flashbacks. Due to the nature of the flasb.backs, it was necessary to show a split in the time frame of a scene without removing anyone from the stage. This task was achieved very smoothly using lighting techniques devised by John Miller. The costumes were indicative of each. character, and the overall simplicity of the set served its purpose for the play. Michelle Maratto, who portrayed the strong willed Doctor Martb~ Livingston, began and ended the play with a monologue while a dim light shone above her. The doctor had her moments towards the end of Act I when her character evoked some sort of emotional response from the audience. However, she did not seem very comfortable with her script until the middle of Act II. This is not to say that Marrato failed in her duties as an active member of the play, but rather that the existence of undesirable pauses between her lighting of a cigarette and the recitation of her lines caused an awkward lull in several scenes. As a result, the beginning seemed rather stilted and in tum, seemed to cause the actress to become a little unnerved. The other two actresses were very powerful. Not only did they add the strength and. EE Majors or Any Techn.ical Wizard - WRUC 89.7 FM is looking for an ASSISTANT TECHNICAL DIRECTOR .. individuals Interested should call Bruce or Station x6151 at the x6881. Karen or at Get involved in the group on campus an 'RUC geek. hippest become vitality needed in the play, but they had a good sense of control over their characters and over their lines. Marina Bernard, who portrayed Mother Miriam Ruth, was convincing as a nun whose objective was to vindicate Agnes' innocence. She served as the \protector\ and as the divine \Mother\ whose relationship with Agnes was sacred and very important to the play's plot. Johanna Campbell, who portrayed Agnes, was exceptionally compelling, causing the audience to feel Agnes' physical pain and her confusion provoked by the doctor's interrogation. In fact, the audience was overwhelmed with Campbell's explosive portrayal of the \inaocent\ Agnes. It is in the second act where all of the characters climax, as they attack aad defend others and themselves. On the whole, the play was emotionally disturbing and intriguing for it brought to the fore the question of innoceace, rape, murder, and God. The play leaves us with a sense of unknowing as we question the reliability of Agnes' innocence, and as we are left to ponder the issues brought to light by this play, the audience walks away fulfilled as well as empty- handed. Have you heard of MIRACLE LEGION? They'll be here for Fitzgerald L1;1dlow Day, but ... WIN THEIR LATEST RELEASE \ME AND MR. RAY\ NOW ON WRUC 89.7 FM CAMPUS MOVIES ''About last . oight..l' I) 1: I. I• It I <MI•I•~~III '\ r.' WED. 7-9-11 ...... ~ .... ,... .. _., ... \M•lf'O•II<-n\' Ll1::. Ill NAKID GUN ffll\\1 \be mes ot fll\\Ci &QUltl\ YOU'VE R~D THE AD, l'rJN SEETHE fvK)VI[! IPG·13l<®~ A fl\R~M~UNT rl!:l~~[ i:ft; • .... ............ . ..... \\·-··1:~~·'i.4:~·:.; \t..::: • FRL, SAl., SUN. 7-9-11 HOROSCOPES ByR& K Aries: Roses are red, violets are blue, if you have 1oo many holes buy new shoes. Happy Birthday Cameron Kenny. Taurus: There are no white horses transporting possible lovers. Look out instead for mountain bikes. Gemini: Responsibilities make you grow ... boring. Play and be merry! Cancer: Beware the sun is out. Smoking is dangerous. As-bestos is not good to breathe. And, radiation is not your friend. Leo: Concern for the environment is a turn on. Next time you put something in the recycle bin you'll make a heart go pitter-pat. Virgo: Money can't buy friends. But it can buy respect from scorpios. Libra: Hell week's over. Stop looking like a spook. Scorpio: You deserve the best! Make sure you get it! Sagittarius: Schenectady will never see snow again. Become concerned, write your local representative about global wanni:ng. Or sit back and enjoy. Capricorn: Bet all of your mo11ey, your favorite sweater, and your first-born on the Concordiensis' softball team's victory over WRUC. Aquarius: Bored? Household items can entertain. Paper clips make jewelry, calculators can form words, and there's always saran wrap for ... Pisces: Buck up crumpet, love is in the wings. She's Out of Control Scorpion Fletch Lives Major League Rescuers Dead Calm Disorganized Crime Say Anything Pet Cemetery Rain Man Dream Team See You in the Morning can Theaters for Show Times. r-- ----· .. Clip 'n I Save •.• ·-------, I THE NEW 8.97 I 1 Why the people in hell don't read the NEW 8.97; their I 1 definition of \new music\ is Mozart going amuck, and it's I 1 HELL for crying out loud! They don't deserve it. Why the I I people in hell should read the NEW 8.97; the Cult llave a I I . ftrm hold on the top spot, with Miracle Legion. destined for 1 1 . , brighter things to come. Also, this countdown might get 1 · some folks to purgatory. Thank you. 1 I Name Title Label I 1 1. The Cult Sonic Temple Beggar's I I Banquet I I 2. The Cure 12\ \Fascination St.\ Elektra 1 3. drivin' and crying' Mystery Road Island I 1 4. XTC Oranges & Lemons Geffell I 5. Morrissey 12\ \Last of the Famous\ Sire I I 6. Depeche Mode 101 Sire I 7. FIREHOSE FROMOHIO SST I I 8. Blue Clocks Green Hemingway Pre Post Oa 1 8.97 Miracle legion Me & Mr. Ray Rough Trade I I I I Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week ~ I , Cindy Lee Berryhill· \Me Steve, Kirk, & Keith\ I I Notes: 1 .. :LI Stay tuned for Miracle Legion giveaways. 1 ~------------------------------------------------------------~ --------------------------------------------

Page 16 $SUMMER JOBS$ Union . College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs (5) peer lour counselors for its 7th , • Summer Program. July 2,. August 19 RESPONSIBILITIES: • : Attend Summer Progr-am · · · . Orientation Session Tutor in AssignedSubject Area. . Provide Personal, Social-.and · Academic Counseling . Assist students with orientation to · · Union College Assist the Residence Staff · . Particiapte in all required .staff meetings Submit weekly reports and :final evaluations · Assist with .stl!dent and tutor counselor final evaluations Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel Participate in social,. cultural and recreational activities Perform other duties assigned by . · theAOPStaff . . . QUALIFICATIONS: Upperclass person or graduate as of • June Capable of tutoring in one of tbe following areas: Chemstry, English study skills, Math, Social Research, Physics, Minimum of 2.0 Cumulative index Minimum 3.0 in subject area you will tutor · . Applications now available in , the AOP Office, 101 Bailey Hall Application Deadline - April 24, 1989 CONCO'RDIENSJS April 20,· 1989 Seniors: Are you· ' Sunday Worship G:OO ... 6:45, pm Looking forward to graduation but sad ap<Jut · leaving your friends behind? Do you want to talk to your friends and help Union · • · at the sai'ne time? For mote ifnormation on ~becoming an Assoc:;i@te . in the Fourth Floor Lounge ·Of the. College Center· is now a ad hoc basis. Please. call x6618 and leave a message by FRIDAY' noon ifyou will be at worship on Sunday. Worship· will be cancelled if fewer ,than ~ Agent for'89 · Call Josh at x4031 or Erika ;;~t xf»175. ·people contact the ()'ffice. please call the office (x66lS.} after 2:30 Friday, to find out is warship will happen, If this is your best job qualification, we'd like to meet· you .. Friendly People·· Great pay •• Incentives-·· Benefits Stop by and arrange an interview for: Concierge: 6:30 am-12:30 pm/Tue, Wed3 Thr, Fri Front Desk Clerk: 7~00 am-3:00pm/3:00pm- 11:00 pm Night Audit: 1 t:OO pm.-7:00 am Housekeepers/Houseman: 8:00am-4:30pm/Sat-Sun 9:30 am-6:00 pm Albany MarrioH Hotel .189 Wolf Road Dishwashers: 7:00 am-3:00 pm/3:30 prr1-Midnig.ht Flirtations: Cocktail Server- Host/ess Room Service: ~erver - 6:00 .am-3:00pm Albany, New York 12205 MIFIHIV and Equal Opportunity Em_ployer Get 1lw5 .... fOr J\ud .2p c~s ~ .tntr'j . . ~, ~~­ .x.,ou ctwld lA)Ih. a. Lrnutedtdliunt. tl,atl,tke//QI' Rat.\ !=shlrt! J)nuoing.c lOll/ bf, lt~ld.. tJ..-t ·tla& end of tArA. liJel~\ bu,-t /u£rr~~ offer on/.,9 gootl while ~plies frJ,St! · . . 0/t if .Jb.LU' lack hAS r~Ut tJU't · just stDf in. aNi purchase a-n.e jr ~ . ~1- . Union ~o(Cege -·- . ..,

Page 16 $SUMMER JOBS$ Union CoHege's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs . (5) peer tour counselors for its 7th ' Summer Program. July 2- August 19 RESPONSIBILITIES: Attend Summer Program Orientamon Session Tutor in Assigned Subject Area Provide Personal, Social aad ·I· Academic Counseling .· Assist students with orientation t<J Union College Assist the ResidenreStaff Particiapte in all requined staff meetiNgs Submit weekly reports and fi.naJ evaluations Assist with student and tutor • counselor final evaluations Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel Participate in social, cultural and ' recreational activities Perform other auties assigned by . the AOP Staff QUALIFICATIONS: Upperclass person or graduate as of June Capable of tutoring in one of the following areas: Chemstry, English study skills, Math, Social Research, Physics, Minimum of 2.0 Cumulative index Minimum 3.0 in subject area you will tutor Applications now available in the AOP Office, 101 Bailey Hall Applic.ation Deadline - April 24, 1989 JNFOR'MATION~ Jon Sullivan (713) 97 4-El~7 FOR IMNIEOJATE 'RELEASE CONTEST FOR COLLEGE PHOTO STUDENTS ANNOUNCED HOUSTON, TX - Prize money totaUing $2,500 win be awarded!() college phOotography students in a creative phott> contest being conducted by the Centennial Pay . Phone Committee. The competition, marking the 1 OOth anniversary of public communications. features a grand prize of $1,000. Fir$t prize is $750, second is $500 ad thfrd is $250. No restriclions are .placed on composition or presentation as long as a pay telephone is included in lhe shot. Winners and c0ther top entries will be displ!lyed at the PACE/PublicComm '89 Conference and Exposition, June 6#9,. ~t Walt Disn(ly World Village, FL Selected photos will also be published in P·ubUe Cornmunicati<~ns Magazine, a . committee tp.ons.or along with AT & T, GT£ ~nd otliers. Siack·al'ld-w'hita or color prints, 8x1 0 or srilaUer, are ellgihls. 'PtH>1o& ·are not returnable and should be identified wnn 1na entraint 1 s ·.· nartH<}, address pnone an~ sehoot. · Entries must e submitted by, · May 30 to ?!!ty ?horte ti.lent&nnial , Pho·t·o··s.·, .3·7· ~.1 .. S.tiar p.:·:· ark,~u.lte···· ., .. 100, Houston TX 7704~L : Complet& rul!l)$ are also available at that addreSc~. 1 . CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Seniors: Are you .. Sunday Worship 6:00 - 6:45 pm Looking forward to graduation but sad about leaving your friends behind? in the Fourth Floor Lounge of the College Center is now a ad hoc basis. Please call x6618 and leave a message by FRIDAY noon if you will be at worship on Sunday. Worship will be canceUed if fewer tban 3 people contact the office. please call the office (x6618) after 2:30 Friday, to find out is worship will happEn. Do you want to talk to your friends and help Union at the same time? For more ifnormation on becoming an Associate Agent for '89 Call Josh at x4031 or Erika at :x6175. If this is your best job qualification, we'd like to meet you. Fri;endly Peop.le --Great pay ... 'Incentives-- Benefits Stop by and arrange an interview for: Concierge: 6:30 am-12:30 pm/Tue, Wed, Thr, Fri Front Desk Clerk: 7:00 am-3:00pm/3:00pm - 11:00 pm Night Audit: 11 :00 pm-7:00 am Housekeepers/Houseman: 8:00 am-4:30 pm/Sat-Sun 9:30 am-6:00 pm Albany Marriott Hotel Dishwashers: 7:00 am-3:00 pm/3:30 pm-Midnight Flirtations: Cocktail Server- Host! ess 189 Wolf Road Albany, New York 12205 MIFIHIV and Equal Opportunity Empfoyer Room Service: ~erver- 6:00am-3:00pm L __ I Get 1his .... fOr J ·ust .~ c ~s \:\ . entr9 . . 1,ou crx.Jd. to~i'l.. a.. Ltl'lf.dtd'tdrhtrn.. t{athtkel/ar Rat \ 1-shiY't ! /Jratbings l.f)i/1 ~ h~ld. 4.-t tit£ end of eack U:Jeek, hu-t /u£rry, offsr oni!J geed dule .st~pplie:s /~t! . Oft if Jbi.U' lack.. has r~UL ou~ just stDf in. a:iu:L purchase (5)1.8 fir dlly '1- Unlort ~o([eg;e

CLUB NEWS Merton · ta·pes-· . Friday, · · April 21st at Noon. All are · welcome to bring brown bag lunch and~list~n to a Merton tape in CC4Q4B. Monday· Nigh' Supper- April 24th at 5 PM in CC203 either use your meal plan or brings our own and join Sandy Mosher,. Director of .Health Services for conversation and · an informal presentation on \Dealing With Stres:s.\ AU welcqme. CONCORDIBNSIS April 20, 19.89 Pag~ 17 Anyone who can~t think of what to do with a Watson shou1d have his head examined. Flarnin,g Soup Dux - Back to the Womb's New Outlet.. Thurs. 6-8 PM on · W.R.U;C. To The Dirty Dancing Couple' · at. TD Chi, did you ever ·get.a ' =Pr·~~-· -· '\;w~.;-:';:H· \;\\·\';:L\-:'· .• -:>:~· ~--- . · 01essor . . . . tuorm, room?· Fish, Flesh and Fowl plus .. The Witnesses more inspiring. Audra; I'm so psyched that you made . it ... I hope it was worth the \WID.t.\ Love your big sister, MAIA Normie,· You traitor! We want it back or you~re cut off!. .. or worse ... UCRA, Kill some fish in Worcester! FPFU Anyone who can't think of what to do with ·a Watson should have her head e'!.:amilled. Congratulations to the. original .. Delta Psi Deltas on (finally!) official siblinghoo<t! Love, Harold P. and Big Toe CAMPUS NEWS Ellen and Heidi: I hope Fifi is ' . MoJ.ly, doing well. By the way, she . You studmuffin! 4 Guys in one likes her food. with vanilla. weekend. Jenn and Nancy· -This is notfromNancy and Jenn and we're not too bored! Nott Memorial Theater Franz, Ed, & Jeff - 'Thank you so much for JEDZ!! I love you guys! Happy Belated Birthday Calvin, . ·I heard your mother put a razor blade in your cake. · Tracee, Thanks for a great B-Day! I love everything - especially the · cow mug - everytime I use it, I'll think of you. You're the test roomie ever! Love ya!! To all of you who helped with Love, Susie. P.S. Sorry this is so late. - F.S. Liz, Jon, Yarsh, and Shmitty, Congrats! -Scmeb and S~uirrel the surprise on April 6: Sorry Will - Catholic Vid.eo Series-. ·. Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5:00PM and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All ~e welcome. ·' Heidi and Hether - · · Now that we've been sunk, . clubbed, whipped, creamed, and · dickled, do you think Chuck will approve? this is late but... Thanks!! H , Ronald McDonald, You was the best birthday ever! ·~ screaming gland you, oply 6 Tutoring._:. ·Union College students can be used in .the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- .one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 38.6-4353. Folk Group.....:. All singers and musicians interested in beip.g part of the Music j I hear the h,ockey teams recruitipg .. Hat tri<?k central!!! Heidi,· you've got the sudden 5 You~rethe best! 1 weeks left to score, you Clown. Love, Julie SDK o'clock shadow syndrome and I Heather, I hear your lips are · finally back in working condition!! Wh:atateam! -Holly Hookup Love., Fun Guy · • Auditions 8:00Tues. April 25. Kathy R. - . DELTA PHi, What be didn't find out can't · Let's DANCE! ·hurt him! Too bad... . Ym•r!ioncrablePledges Hey Liz! Who says I don't think of you? Pisces: You will bave an \GRlN\ 1 incredibly romantic evening, · Be There (or be somewhere . else)! Francis 1 and tell Riggs b~'s cool. . ;' ------~--~------~ Union Crew: Lds win some shirts at Worcester this weekend! Keep the timing arid burn on those power lQ!s (tens)! Good Luck! UCRA! Ministry at the 7::30 PM ==T:7\he-. ~wo;\'o~m-e-:-n-o\f~M-;-.H~· :--;,C;;-.-w_o __ u..-;ld Sunday Mass please meet at like to thank Hari for a · Jenny, Tracy, and Sue: Roses Desperately seeking female {living) for one wild weekend. · Please, Please call 4092 and Bob and Kelly: Maybe we can relive our memories of Monday night this weekend. Remember: We were there! Your incredibly fun party guide, 6:30 PM in the church to wonderful weekend! rehearse: · · are Red, Our singles were bleak, go back into hell, we'll have better luck next week. C.LASSIFIEDS , Looking . for female to share small apartment on upper east side of Manhattan - · • reasonable rent Available June 1st. If interested, call Julie. ·Daytime 212-303-5103 .. Evenings 212-772-7066. Housesitter available May-August, professional. For informatiol). call 346-2034. Ask for Joan. · Attention .. Government Homes from $1 (U-repair) Deliquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- . 838·8885 e~t. GH7090; Attention - ·Government seized vehicles from $100. Fords 1 Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602-838-8885 ext A7090. \Attention Hiring!\ Government jobs, your area. , Many immediate openings withou.t waiting list or test. $17,84'0-$69,485. CalJ 1-602- 838-8885 ext. R7090~ PERSONALS \Hi BARNEY!\ \Hi MOM!\ \Hi KRISTEN!\ \Hi Yak!\ Court Gestures To The Gamma Pledge Class.: The oldest sisters welcome all of you to Sisterhood of Gamma Phi Beta. PICK UP THE TRASH!!! ! I I Comedy Improv BLOOM COVNTY , •... £Wrlf/? .CHIINNet. ·,· f'f/.711 'offiKT 11!1115 ... aner< /?An:: ... Your lonely roommate~. . a.sk for \The Love Master\. Bring clean sheets. CMtJtiL .Itt 8~ !(161fT II~XT 7?J Ya' 11/f:WHOt& 1/~e-. .. Jenn by Berke Breathed '

CLUB NEWS Merton tapes- Friday, April 21st at Noon. All are welcome to bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404B. Monday Night Supper-- April 24th at 5 PM in CC203 either use your meal plan or bring your own and join Sandy Mosher, Director of Health Services for conversation and an informal presentation on \Dealing With Stress.\ All welcome. Catholic Video Series- Tuesdays from. 4:30- 5:00PM and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404 B. All are welcome. Tutoring- Union College students can be used in .the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group- All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7::30 PM Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 PM in the church to rehearse. CLASSIF'IEDS Looking for female to share small apartment on upper east side of Manhattan - reasonable rent. Available June 1st. If in teres ted, call Julie. Daytime 212-303-5103 - Evenings 212-772-7066. Housesitter available May-August, professional. For information call 346-2034. Ask for Joan. Attention - Government Homes from $1 (U-repair) Deliquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 ext. GH7090. Attention ~ Government seized vehicles from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602-838-8885 ext A7090. \Attention Hiring!\ Government jobs, your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840-$69,485. Cal,l 1-602- 838-8885 ext. R7090. ======-.:. PERSONALS \Hi BARNEY!\ \Hi MOM!\ \Hi KRISTEN!\ \Hi Yak!\ Court Gestures To The Gamma Pledge Class: The oldest sisters welcome all of you to Sisterhood of Gamma Phi Beta. PICK UP THE TRASH!!! CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 Page 17 Anyone who can't think of what to do with a Watson should have his head examined. To The Dirty Dancing Couple · 1 at TD Chi, did you ever get a room? -The Witnesses Audra. I'm so psyched that you made it. .. I hope it was worth the \Wait.\ Love your big sister, MAlA Normie, You traitor! We want it back or you're cut off! ... or worse ... UCRA, Kill some fish in Worcester! Heidi and Hether - I hear the ~ockey teams recruiting - Hat trick central!!! Heidi, you've got the sudden 5 o'clock shadow syndrome and l Heather, I hear your lips are ,. finally back in working condition!! What a team! j -Holly Hookup --=---::-:--------' Flaming Soup Dux - Back to the Womb's New Outlet. Thurs. 6-8 PM on W.R.U.C. Professor W.H. Litfomt, Fish, Flesh and F()wl plus more inspiring. FPF II. Anyone who can't tllink of what to do with a Watson · should have her head examined. Congratulations to tile original Delta Psi Deltas on (finally!) official siblinghood! Love, Harold P. and Big Toe Now that we've been sunk, · clubbed, whipped, creained, and dickled, do you think Chuck will approve? Love, Fun Guy Auditions Kathy R. - What he didn't find out can't hurt him! Too bad ... HeyLiz! [ Who says I don't think of you? \GRIN\ Pisces: You will have an incredibly romantic evening, Francis · and tell Riggs he's cool. The Women of M.H.C. would like to thank Hari for a wonderful weekend! Comedy Improv Jenny, Tracy, and Sue: Roses are Red, Our singles were bleak, go back into hell, we'll have better luck next week. Your lonely roommates. BLOOM COUNTY ,, fJ~t? COtVN~T 7HG H-731?/3 C1?~8t£ :3!61/AL AMP 7W!XT me liCK !Ifill? 111~ t.5P ~.JCRIIM/!:1£1( !J()X :LH-3k7D --~ ·' ... evrrfR CHIJM/et ... ?(1.711 '6TIIKT 11146: .. f3Vla? Pille ... CAMPUS NEWS Ellen and Heidi: I hope Fifi is doing well. By the way, she likes her food with vanilla. Jenn and Nancy Nott Memorial Theater Franz, Ed, & Jeff - Thank you so much for JEDZ!! I love you guys! Tracee, Thanks for a great B-Day! I love everything - especially the cow mug - everytime I use it, I'll think of you. You're the best roomie ever! Love ya!! To all of you who helped with the surprise on April 6: Sorry this is late but... Thanks!! It was the best birthday ever! You're the best! . Molly, You studmuffin! 4 Guys in one weekend. -This is not from Nancy and Jenn and we're not too bored! Happy Belated Birthday Calvin, 'I heard your mother put a razor blade in your cake. Love, Susie. P.S. Sorry this is so late. - F.S. Liz, Jon, Yarsh, and Shmitty, Congrats! -Scmeb and Squirrel Will- Ronald McDonald, You . screaming gland you, only 6 , weeks left to score, you clown. Love, Julie li SDK 8:00 Tues. April :25. DELTA PHt, Let's DAi~C:E! Y m•r! ioncratle Ptedges -·----------- Bz There (or be somewhere else)! Desperately seeking female (living) for one wild weekend. Please, Please call 4092 and ask for \The Love Master\. Bring clean sheets. Union Crew: Let's win some shirts at Worcester this weekend! Keep the timing and burn on those power lO's (tens)! Good Luck! UCRA! Bob and Kelly: Maybe we can relive our memories of Monday night this weekend. Remember: We were there! Your incredibly fun party guide, Jenn by Berke Breathed

Page 18 CONCORDlENSIS A.pril 20, 1989 SPORTS Tennis Anyone? Sign up now f()r Union ·s First Annual :Mixed Doubles Tennis Tournam·ent Saturday, May 20th Students an~ faculty of all levels are welcome. Various prizes will be awarded from local sponsors. Steve Nieditz runs full steam ahead versus Plattsburgh last Saturday. \The ball is in your court\ Mouthin.g Off Please contact Lakshmi at x4467 or Amy at x4365 ifyou.'reinterested. By ANDY D.RAVER Som(}thing has bothered me ' for an extended period of time. Last week, finally, the first step was taken to change things. Many people do not agree with my philosophy on this issue, but what can I do about it? The way I saw things. they were not healthy for the college athletes-- in particular, college football players. Why should ·a guy playing college football at Generic U. not be allowed into the National Football Le~gue? The reasons are countless, as well as poignant. But passing your classes and getting a degree are the responsibilities of the student-athlete. The student in the athlete knows the statistics about life in the NFL. He knows that players last on the average a little over four seasons. He also knows that many do not make it at all, and that numerous others suffer debilitating injuries. But that does not seem to .stop them from wanting to enter the NFL. If they chose to do so, they should be allowed, even if they have not gtaduated. A college degree should not be the determining factor of whether or not a player should 'be allowed into the National Football League. Believe it or not, money is not always the only reason players want to go. Many are also afraid. Not of the-game of football, but what can happen to them while playing. Take Danny Manning for example, and forget that he plays (played?) basketball for the Los Angeles Clippers. In January he suffered a possible career- ending knee iqjllfy. But has a $10 million dollar guaranteed contract that protects him and his family. If this injury occurred one year earlier while Manning was playing for the Kansas University Jayhawks, he would have nothing in his the same-- at least he is ' I protected, however~ Melvin Bratton, former i fullback at the University ·Of 1 pocket and his future would be I uncertain at best. But now, who knows, he might nevet be l Miami, will never be the same. Last spring, the All-American running back chose to stay in school because he had one year of eligibility remaining. Unfortunately, it was the. worst mistake he could have made, or will ever make. Bratton destroyed his knee completely. He did, however, return to football. He is no longer the first round millionaire-to-be. Rather, Melvin Bratton is another back who will be lucky to make it in the P.ros. The point that I .am trying to make is tbis: skill aside, a college degree Should not be the determining factor of whether or not a player should be allowed into the National Football League. Sure, the extra years ·Of learning the game and practice will obviously help most players in the long rull. But take the Barry Sanders situation, for example. His school, Oklahoma State University, is on .probation for recruitingb violations, and his parents desperately need the money that would be earned if Sanders were to turn pro. Sanders also bas the skills to enter the draft now. because nobody in college could stop· him last year. And if nobody could stQp him as a junior, who will stop · him as a senior? When the NFL decided that Sanders could enter the draft, they cited these examples, along with the fact that Sanders had lost his college eligibility when he signed with an agent. If they had not allowed him to enter, the NFL would have been taken to .court, and they would have lost. Everybody knows it, and sooner or later the rule prohibiting underclassmen to enter the league ,will.be repealed, I do not know if that is such a good idea, however. I have thought of another plan that might in some cases be useful. I propose that the NCAA change its policies, and help keep the athletes in school. What they would need to do is set up a program where the players' respective colleges and universities would buy insurance policies for their athletes. They do not have to be for $5 million dollars. But maybe about $50,000 or $100;000. I know tl}ere are problems with this idea, but it is better than nothing. And maybe the players could pay the schools a percentage of the .policies if they do, in fact, make it to the NFL. I certainly would not mind knowing that if I got hurt playing footpall in college that I have a security blanket, or at least a security . pair of socks, because it is better than going out to face the world naked. What they would need to do is set up a program where the players' respective ~olleges .and universities would buy insurance policies for their athletes. Look at it this way. The NCAA and the schools make a killing off of their athletic teams. Both Rose Bowl teams take home a whopping $5 million, win or lose. So,. put the money back into the players and their futures instead of into the football 'program'. Help the players who won you the money in the first place. Otherwise, they will start leaving school even earlier, and you won't be making your money anyway. So, what have they to lose? Certainly not as much as Melvin Bratton just did! Sponsored by the Intramural Department I.B.F. DEADLINE !/!he deadl;ine for proposals for the Int:si-nal Edt,Jcation Foundat:ion in two categories--student-initiated research projects and \educationally iimovative projects\ is Mond·ay, l~ay 8, 198~. · Proposa.i·s for student-initiated research projectS. .must have tbe writ:ten approval ·Of a faculty advisor wllo bas agreetl to supervi,se the project. The . proposals should be submitted t:o tlle Dean's office (5100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Sim.i:Larlg, members of the College commonit!J who have \educatio'nally inno- vative\ proposals should submit t:llem to (;he same office on forms a:vai.labH• there. Forins for Faculty Rl!search Project.$ are also available in the Dean is Office (SlOO). · · Guidelines ,with respec.t to the I.B.F. are avai1able in the De.an's Offlce. tnquiries about I, E. F, , the guidelines, or ~e proposal de.adJ:ine sllould be directed ·to .Dean Terry weiner, Acting Dean of Facult!f. When prepa>J:!ng budgets, please remember that per diem rate~ are normally lini:ited to $50.0(!' per (lay. · Transportation costs should also refledt the ~est rates avaiiable, StUdents who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrallgements .!lave alread!1 b.een made. I.f your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posal. must; bave preliminary approval from tbe Human Subjects Resea.tch Committee before it can be .funded by .the subcouncll on ~esearch and Grants. . FACULTY RESEARCfi :DEADLINE . The subcounc:!l on Research and Grant.!; :is now solicit:!ng proposals for faculty research and schoiarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (SlOCJ-s. & E). The deadline for submission· Qf proposal·$ is · Monday, May 8, 1989. Questions. concerning the Fac.ulty Research Fund should })e directed to Dean weiner. When preparing budgets, ·please remember that per diem rates are·nor- mally lim:! ted to $50. OQ per da!l• Trallsportat:!on costs should also ·reflect t;he\ best rates available. 1 . . tf your re!:learch includes work \'ith human subjects; then the proposal must have pxelimina.z:g appt:oval from ~e HU~IJ. Subjects ··Research Committee before it can be ftinded bg the Subcounc:i.l · qn. 'fles~arcp and Grants. . ·. , .

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS April 20, 1989 SPORTS ~ ' .. =f •• •• ,< ~% ~~:: Tennis Anyone? Sign up now for Union's First Annual Mixed Doubles Tennis TournamHnt Saturday, May 20th Students and faculty of all levels are welcome. Various prizes will be awarded from local sponsors. Steve Nieditz runs full steam ahead 1'9rsus Plattsbmgh last Saturday. \The ball is in your court\ Mouthing Off Please contact Lakshmi at x4467 or Amy at x4365 if you're interested. By ANDY BRAVER Something has bothered me· for an extended period of time. Last week. finally, the first step was taken to change things. Many people do not agree with my philosophy on this issue, but what can I do about it? The way I saw things, they were not healthy for the college athletes-- in particular, college football players. Why should a guy playing college football at Generic U. not be allowed into the National Football League? The reasons are countless, as well as poignant. But passing your classes and getting a degree are the responsibilities of the student-athlete. The student in the athlete knows the statistics about life in the NFL. He knows that players last on the average a little over four seasons. He also knows that many do not make it at all, and that numerous others suffer debilitating injuries. But that does not seem to stop them from wanting to enter the NFL. If they chose to do so, they should be allowed, even if they have not graduated. A college degree should not be the determining factor of whether or not a player should be allowed into the National Football League. Believe it or not, money is not always the only reason players want to go. Many are also afraid. Not of the game of football, but what can happen to them while playing. Take Danny Manning for example, and forget that he plays (played?) basketball for the Los Angeles Clippers. In January he suffered a possible career- ending knee injury. But has a $10 million dollar guaranteed contract that protects him and his family. If this injury occurred one year earlier while Manning was playing for the Kansas University Jayhawks, he would have nothing in his the same-- at least he is I protected, however. · Melvin Bratton, former fullback at the University of l pocket and his future would bel uncertain at best. But now, who knows, he might never be l Miami, will never lle the same. Last spring, the All-American running back chGse to stay in school because he llad one year of eligibility remaining. Unfortunately, it wa.s the worst mistake he could have made, or will ever make_ Bratton destroyed his knee completely. He did, however, return to football. He is 110 longer the first round miUionaire-to-be. Rather, Melvin Bratton is another back who will be lucky to make it in the pros. The point that I am trying to make is this: skill aside, a college degree ~hould not be the determining factor of whether or not a player should be allowed into the National Football League. Sure, the extra years of learning the game and {>ractice will obviously help most players in the long run. But take the Barry Sanders situation, for example. His school, Oklahoma State University, is on probation f()r recruitingb violations, and his parents desperately need the money that would be earned if Sanders were to turn pro. San-ders also has the skills to ellter the draft now, because nobody in college could s..top him last year. And if nobody could stop him as a junior, who will stop him as a senior? When the NFL decided that Sanders c0uld e11ter the draft, they cited these examples, along with the fact that Sanders had lost his college eligibility when he signed with an agent. If they had not a..llowed him to enter, the NFL would have been taken to court, and they would have losL Everybody knows it, and sooner or later the rule prohibiting underclassmen to enter the league will be repealed. I do not know if that is such a good idea, h(}wever. I have thought of an()tller plan that might in some cases be useful. I propose th.at the NCAA change its policies, and help keep the athletes in school. What they would need to do is set up a program where the players' respective colleges and universities would buy insurance polides for their athletes. They do not have to be for $5 million dollars. But maybe about $50,000 or $100,000. I know there are problems with this idea, but it is better than nothing. And maybe the players could pay the schools a percentage of the policies if they do, in fact, make it to the NFL. I certainly would not mind knowing that if I got hurt playing football in college that I have a security blanket, or at least a security pair of socks, because it is better than going out to face the world naked What they would need to do is set up a program -where the players' respective colleges and universities would buy insurance policies for their athletes. Look at it this way. The NCAA and the schools make a killing off of their athletic teams. Both Rose Bowl teams take home a whopping $5 million, win or lose. So, put the money back into the players and their futures instead of into the football 'program'. Help the players who won you the money in the first place. Otherwise, they will start leaving school even earlier, and you won't be making your money anyway. So, what have they to lose? Certainly not as much as Melvin Bratton just did! Sponsored by the Intramural Department I. E.F. DEADLINE The deadline ~or proposals for the rnternal Education Foundation in two categories--student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Monday, May 8, 1989. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SIOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. • Similarly, rnelflbers of the College community who have \educationally inno- vative\ proposals sho11ld submit: them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Facultg Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office ( SlOO). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about: I .B. F. , the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dean Terr~ weiner, Acting Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per dag. Transportation costs should also refleat the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have alread~ been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro- posal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcounall on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposais for faculty researah and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's Office (5100-S & E). The deadline tor submission of proposals is Monday, May 8, 1989, ouestions concerning the Faculty Research FUnd should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are nor- mally limited to $5().00 per day. Transportation costs .should also reflect the best rates a~ailable. If you~ resea.rch includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Ruman Subjects Research Committee before it can be fuaded bg the Subcounail'qn /<esearcp and Grants. I . I j I 1 I

