liege 1877 Vol. CXIX, No. 7 Schenectady, New York November 2, 1989 R·ape Conference Provides Union Measures Wi(h Preventative c a: ~ ~. :Z g ( ~ 6i ·0 f,- g ·C. Profe$sOr Twitty Styles, co-chair of the AIDS Co'nference addressed an audience in Memorial Chape11his pa:st Monday. AlDS Patients Highlight Week~ Long. Conference By JAY FREELAND News Editor Shotsky, the director of · education at the AIDS Council . of Northeastern New York, and This past Sunday marked the Ann Smith of the Schenectady start of ilie third annual AIDS County AIDS Ta:sk Force. and Sexually Transmitted The series of lectures and Diseases Awareness Week. The discussions includea wide array week-long conference bosted by · of .topics. Monday covcnxrmc Qnion College is open to aU biological aspe:ets of AIDS, campus students as well as AIDS in women and children, outside residtmts. The and AIDS in blac:ks. Tul~S<Iay conference is expected to bring contained sessions on AIDS over 4,000 people by week's with regards to ccl1ege students end and Hispanics. and teaching of The conference consists of a AIDS in the classroom. \week-long sedes of lectures, Today marks the final day of workshops and community AIDS Awareness Week at events. ' 1 Some of the ·• Union (the last official day is workshops will be held at . Friday). The prD';gram is being Schenectady Commun-ity cap.ped off wi:tll a special College and some local area Minerva hour dis<:ussion that higr schools as well as on the · will host three people with Union campus. · AIDS. This will' be held in · The lectures and workshops · Memorial Chapel at 11 AM. were kicked-off this past · An AIDS Curri.;ulum Update Sunday evening with a radio will be given 011 Friday at the call-in show discussing AIOS Linton Higll School with professor <Jf biology Auditorium. George BLttterst~in, Wendy Continue.d on page 3 By SUSAN D. SHAFFER Ed.itor-in- Chief Union College was .one of the fifty New York State schools represented Tuesday at the conference for Acquaintance Rape and Sexual Assault Prevention on College Campuses. The conference, sponsored by Cornell University and New York State Senator Kenneth P. ·LaValle, Chair of the NYS Senate Higher Education Committee, was held at Albany's Legislative Office Building. Students, Administrators. Security Officers, Counselors and faculty were present from such .colleges and universities as Cornell, Hamilton, Vassar, Princeton and Syracuse. Dr. Andrea Parrot p.-esented the Keynote Address. An Assistant Professor at Cornell ·university, she is·aiding New York state legislators through her research project entitled \A Comparison of Acquaintance Rape Patterns and Services in Rural and Urban Colleges in New York State\. Her research project will help legislators to create new legislation on sexual assault and its prevention. She began her address by giving the definition of acquaintance rape according to New York state law. She defined acquaintance rape as a situation in which a person is forced to have sexual intercourse against his/her own will by someone that person Jrnows or has reason to trust. According to Parrot, 20 to 25% '' ·; .· · .Jn : th.is .. ·.Iss·ue:·. Dickens Expert To Lecture Monday · .. · Uilite.ct Way· ·. . . ' . ·ts ·underway -page 7··· .• .. Before the D ··ft.·., •. ~u-t:ter Jes , -page.l6 · ; ·,-: . . .. He:~key .. · ·.· .. PreviEw···· ~·P#ge. z~ .·· .. By PROFESSOR s: ULLMANN · professor on five continents, _..including, in the United States, . at th~ University ·Of California, · Philip CollillS, Emeritus Berkeley, and at Columbia Professor of English at the University. University uf Leicester, ·His publications include England, will talk on . books on Dickens ~md \Dickens: Fact and Fiction,\ Crime and Dickens and on Monday, November 6, at 4 Education, the Dickens entry p.m. in the seco-nd floor lounge . for the En c y cIt) p u '' d i o of the Humanjties Building, Brittanica, and editions of under the sponsorship of the . more than ten volumes on English and History · Dickens, most recently a two- Departments. volume A 11 not ate d Collins is an extremely Dickens. He is also the popular speake1. His readings author of books on Thackeray, of Dickens have been heard en . Trollope, Boswell, and BBC television and radio; at · Tennyson, arnong others . the National and Mermaid ·His many official positions Theatres in Lo11don, and for have included the presidency of some years a11nually at the the Dickens Society and tbe Leicester Hay-ntarket Studio Dickens Fellowship, and Theatre. He has given lectures . membership on the Board of and recitals in .. eighteen Directors at the National . countries and lbeen a visiting theatre .. of all colle.ge women experience forced sex or attempted forced sex. Half of all forced sex incidents involve alco_!lol consumption. Parrot believes that alcohol involvement plays a key role in acquaintance rape. .. The · .foJlowi~g •. $ .. ~~ey was gtv.en to prc,gr-am . ·.·. . .pattieipants Ju ~m . .• attetn;pt to liitre!IS~ ihek own a.wateness c,f .1k.e . pr«ib1~m -~f acqiJlldntance .. :· rape;' l!'llave-yooievef: · · 2. Ha4 ~ w~mat'l• · · .. · · ~mtetpteU!d thel!!\.~ti:~f ·. . .. ·$~xuat ihtimacyyou.<tesfued?· .· · · . •.. ·· .·· yes·, ~· 4. H a sex:uu31: mtetoours .. · .• . . .. a ... ,· ·.· . . . . .. e . . .. · w~a.woril~¢v¢ntlPl:lgi'l .· ' _: shedidn't.rea,lly want'to . .· .. • .. . • ;'~®$ey~U,1brea~ to~ . ·. . · yput r¢l~~pothei;wl$e~'.·: •····· · • . .'\ ... ·. ' \. ~ :. : jp . · '\ .S.\Jlad~atin~~e : a W.PrP:aij·wb~ she <!i4tl't... : .· .· .·· . .. ···· •. ·~ w;uitJiirJ~~~~~-); ·. · Pfl!:$$.1tt~ l>)f·yon;r- ~~ttal: ~·~~\?: :\:· ;~·;<.·iE .• f lf).lla4:s~~m~~:. · · . • •wlllt a 'Vrorii® whcfislie;didn'\ · · .. · w!Qtt to b¢f!\l$e. yon · · ·.~ thtea.tenect1<>\1$e :Pil:Ysicat · Jo®(tWistiughetan:n~ · , ·. hi>Idi-1ig.'her~wn; ~t¢.),ifl!lhe : ~an~tooopec3te? ·· ·· · ..... . . •.. )'eS·. $ Perpetrators often do not recognize their crime due to tile circumstances of acquaintance rape. As well, victims will often feel violated but yet not realize that what they have experienced was actually, according to state law, rape. Only l in 150 people wl10 have experienced forced sex actually report it and 75% .of the time the victim .is counseled and not the perpetrator. In order for perpetrators to recognize their guilt Dr. Parrot feels that colleges need to train 'faculty, staff and students. Another suggestion to end acquaintance rape was to eliminate fraternities. She . . believes that single sex living units excuse men from following socially acceptable standards of behavior as well as providing for high degrees of peer pressure. She also recommended thitL colleges set up a sexual assaults campus coordinator, a task [Qrce or coalition to deal with this issue, and a written prQtocol. One workshop which dealt with such education of students, as well as supporting other recommendations in Dr. Parrot's presentation. was entitled Acquaintance Rape as a Men's Issue. Alan Berkowitz, Ph.D., a counseling Psychologist from Hobart and William Smith Colleges and Rocco L. Capraro, Ph.D., Assistant Dean of Hobart College, facilitated the workshop. Hobart College has implemented a Men and Masculinity program which addresses issues tha~ we deal with at Union. According to its facilitators this program makes several assumptions which underlie their acquaintance rape prevention program. They believe that all men are potential exploiters who condone such behavior when they do not take action against it. They regard all men as having a responsibility to help change such behavior. Other assumptions made by Berkowitz and Capraro include the idea that rape is a logical extreme of male attitudes rather than a deviant act. They feel that single gender programs are more affective due to men's and women's different experiences. · Their program focuses on working with perpetrators and the prevention of rape. There main goal is to take the pressure off women changing their behavior and instead reinforce men taking responsibility. They present the ideal program where every male would be required to attend a workshop to learn policies and infonnation about behavioral expectations. Photo of the Week: Halloween at Union College! Decorations courtesy of Annie Higgins .

liege 1877 Vol. CXIX, No. 7 Schenectady, New York November 2, 1989 0 ! z ~ <! ~ 0 § c... Professor Twitty Styles, co-chair of the AIDS Conference addressed an audience in Memorial Chapel this past Monday. AIDS Patients Highlight Week- Long Conference By JAY FREELAND News Editor This past Sunday marked the start of the third annual AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Awareness Week. The week-long conference hosted by Union College is open to all campus students as well as outside residents. The conference is expected to bring over 4,000 people by week's end. The conference consists of a \week-long series of lectures, workshops and community events.\ Some of the workshops will be held at Schenectady Community College and some local area higl:' schools as well as on Lhe Union campus. The lectures and workshops were kicked-off this past Sunday evening with a radio call-in show discussing AIDS with professor of biology George Bl!tterstcin, Wendy Shatsky, the director of education at the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York, and Ann Smith of the Schenectady County AIDS Task Force. The series of lectures and discussions include a wide array of topics. Monday covered the biological aspects of AIDS, AIDS in women and children, and AIDS in blacks. Tul~sday contained sessions on AIDS with regards to college students and Hispanics, and teaching of AIDS in the classroom. Today marks the final day of AIDS Awareness Week at Union (the last official day is Friday). The program is being capped off with a special Minerva hour discussion that will host three people with AIDS. This will be held in Memorial Chapel at ll AM. An AIDS Curriculum Update will be given on Friday at the Linton High School Auditorium. Continued on page 3 Rape Conference Provides Union Measures With Preventative By SUSAN D. SHAFFER Editor-in- Chief Union College was .one of the fifty New York State schools represented Tuesday at the conference for Acquaintance Ra]Je and Sexual Assault Prevention on College Campuses. The conference, sponsored by Cornell University and New York State Senator Kenneth P. LaValle, Chair of the NYS Senate Higller Education Committee, was held at Albany's Legislative Office Building. Students, Administrators, Security Officers, Counselors and faculty were present from such colleges and universities as Cornell, Hamilton, Vassar, Princeton and Syracuse. Dr. Andrea Parrot presented the Keynote Address. An Assistant Professor at Cornell University, she is aiding New york state legislators through her research project entitled \A Comparison of Acquaintance Rape Patterns and Services in Rwal and Urban Colleges in New York State\. Her research project will help legislators to create new legislation on sexual assault and its prevention. She began her address by giving the definition of acqlllaintance rape according to New York state law. She defined acquaintance rape as a situation in which a person is forced to have sexual intercourse against his/her own will by someone that person knows or has reason to trust. According to Parrot, 20 to 25% of all college women experience forced sex or attempted forced sex. Half of all forced sex incidents involve alcohol consumption. Parrot believes that alcohol involvement plays a key role in acquaintance rape. The following survey was given to program participants in an attempt to increase their own awareness of the probleJD of acquaintance rape: 1. Have you ever: 2. Had a woman misinterpreted the level of sexual intimacy you desired? yes m 4. Hadsexuual interoourse with a woman even though she didn't really want to because you threatened to end your relationship otherwise? yes m 5. Had sexual intercell!Se: with · a woman when she didn't really want lo because she f~lt pressur-ed by your conlinual argume.nts? .. yes m 10. Hacl sexual intercourse with a woman when she didn't want to because you threaterled to use physical force (twisting her arm, holding her down, etc.). if she didn~t cooperate? yes m following socially acccptabl e standards of behavior as well ~s providiNg for high dcgrt'CS Df peer pressure. She ah<> recommended t hal col leges set up a sexual as..;aulls c::.~mpLJ'> coordinator, a task force or coalition to deal with this issue, and a written protocol. One workshop which dealt with such education of students, as well as supportin-g other recommendations in Dr. Parrot's presentation, was entitled Acquaintance Rape as a Men's Issue. Alan Berkowitz, Ph.D., a counseling Psychologist from Hobart a11d William Smith Colleges a11ci Rocco L. Capraro, Ph.D., Assistant Dean of Hobart College, facilitated the workshop. Hobart College has implemented a Men and Masculinity program whicfl addresses issues that we deal with at Union. According to its facilitators this program mal<cs several assumptions which underlie their acquaintance rape prevention program. They believe that all men arc potential exploiters who condone such behavior when Lhey do not take action against it. They regard all men ilS having a responsibility to hd p change such behavior. Other assumptions made by Berkowitz and Capraro inc lucie the idea that rape is a logicCJI extreme of male attitudes ratbcr than a deviant act. They feel that single gender programs arc~ more affective due to men's md women's different experiences. In This Issue: Dickens Expert To Lectu.re Monday Perpetrators often do not recognize their crime due to the circumstances of acquaintance rape. As well, victims will often feel violated but yet not realize that what they have experienced was actually, accordi11g to state law, rape. Only 1 in 150 people who have experienced forced sex actually report it and 75% of the time the victim is counseled and notthe perpetrator. In order for perpetrators to recognize their guilt Dr. Parrot feels that colleges need to train faculty, staff and students. Another suggestion to end acquaintance rape was to eliminate fraternities. She believes that single sex. living units excuse men from Their program focuses on working with perpetrators and the prevention of rape. There main goal is to take the pressure off women changing their behavior and instead reinforce men tak i11g responsibility. They prcscn t the ideal program where every male would be required to attend a workshop to lc~ rn policies and information ab()ut behavioral expectations . Unlted Way • IS Underway -page 7 Before the Butterflies -page 16 Hockey Preview ~-page 22 By PROFESSOR S. ULLMANN Philip Collins, Emeritus Professor of English at the University of Leicester, England, will talk on \Dickens: Fact and Fiction,\ on Monday, November 6, at 4 p.m. in the second floor lounge of the Humanities Building, under the sponsorship of the English and History Departments. Collins is an extremely popular speaker. His readings of Dickens have been heard on BBC television and radio, at the National and Mermaid Theatres in London, and for some years annually at the Leicester Haymarket Studio Theatre. He has given lectures and recitals in eighteen countries and been a visiting professor on five continents, .including, in the United States, at thle University of California, Berkeley, and at Columbia University. II is publications include books on Dickens nnd Crime and Dickens and Ed11cation, the Dickens ('nlry for the Encyclopul•din Brittanica, and cditituls ot more than ten volumes on Dickens, most recently a two- volume A n not ate d D ieke ns. He is also the autl1or of books on Thackeray, Tro Hope, Boswell, and Tennyson, among others. His many official positions have included the presidency of the Dickens Society and the Dickens Fellowship, and membership on the Board of Directors at the National Theatre. Photo of the Week: Halloween at Union College! Decorallc:>ns courtesy of Annie Higgins.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, No,ember 2, 1989 / Olnncnrbitnsis • 4· de Klerk's Direction Questioned Despite Prisoner Release Archbishop Desmond T11tu expressed both his interest aDd his concern in a statement he made~ explaining that he wanted to establish whether Mr. de Klerk ''is serious ·aboat . dismantling apartheid and enteri'Qg negotiations to bring about a truly democratic Soutb Afric.a.\ In a concurring statement, the Reverend Frank Chi:kal}~. 'General Secretary of the South African Council of Churches, said that ~'if we do not get a clear indication ()f what Mr. de Klerk is going to do, and ttis aim is just to release· leaders to come and Hve in an apartheid society, then we will continue calling for sanctions against thi$ country.\ in prison. Oscar Mpetha, who at. 80 -years of age is Soutll Africa's Qldest political prisoner, wrH also be freed. Mpetha was convicted on· a terrorism charge jn 1983, while serving as the ANC leader in the Cape Province of South Africa. As expected, the freeings have once again given rise to the movement to free Mandela himself. Thus far, . he has refused offers of .freedom with ll!' JON KELLER On October 10, South African President F.W. de Klerk announced that several leaders of the banned African National Congress (ANC) would he released from prison, includin-g Walter Sislu, a close associate of Nelson Mandela who was convicted with him in 1964. The 77-year-old Sisle ran the day-to-day operations of the ANC as its Secretary General from 1949 to 1954, when the govern mcnt forced him to resign. In 1963, he was seized in a govemment raid on ANC headqt~artcrs in Rivcnia. Later, The question of just how serious Mr. de Klerk is about reforming the political and social structure of So11th Africa is o11ce again being raised, particularly by members of the black resistance. he was convicted, along with Mandeia, for sabotage and plotting to overthrow the government. His originat sentence was for life in prison. The move should be considered nothing short of extraordinary,. as Mr. Sislc represenls a p<>litical figure ·Cf tremendous notoriety. Perhaps only Mandcla himself has greater prestige among South Africa's blacks, Thus, the question of just how serious Mr. de Klerk is about reforming the political and social structure ofSouth Africa is once again being raised, particularly by members of the black resistance. The In adeitien to Sisle, six otlter political prisoners are to be freed as well. Ahmed Kathr.adan, 60, Andrew Mlange-ru, 63, Elia.s Motsoaledi; 65, and Raymond Mhlaba; 69, who briefly took command of the ANC's. military wing when Mandela's associates were arrested, will also be released after 16 years Tbus · far~ Man deJa lt:as refused offers of freedom with the condition that he renoum.:e the use of violence in the fight to topple the white-led government. ihe condition that he renounce the use of violence in the fight to topple the white-led government. However, it is still unknown whether de Klerk plans to release Mandela at a later date. When asked directly about plans to free Mandela, de Klerk said, that his release \is not now on the agenda.\ War On 'Drugs: AH Quiet On The Campus Front By CHRISTOPHER C. BLANKER NATIONAL STUDENT NEWS SERVICE -- President Bush has won few recruits in his War on Drugs from the ranks of college students, according to campus leaders across the country. Some students are even working to overturn one key element of the Bush campus anti-drug plan. On September 5th. the president announced a new anti- drug initiative identifying \casual\ drug use as one of the targets of the campaign. The plan includes strategies to make college campuses drug· free b-y requiring schools to develop anti .. drug guidelines and penalties in order to receive federal funds. It also requires students to sign anti-drug pledges to be eligible to receive certain educational grants. Ma11y students resist the Bustt plan because they do not perceive drugs to be a problem on their campus. A recent study from the Natio11al Institute on Drug Abuse supports this opinion. The number of college students who acknowledged using marijuana in the last 30 days is down to 16.8% of students in 1988 from 23.6% in 1985-- a ·drop of almost 30%. The study shows an even more significant decrease in the amount of cocaine used by students. In 1985, 1he figure stood at 6.9% of college students. while in 1988; it was 4.2%-- a drop of nearly40%. Margo Rosenkranz, project college students about tile dangers of drug use. They .are cho()sing a substance-free lifestyle.\ This is reflected in a study conducted by the American Council on Education. The study shows that in 1978~ 49.5% of all college freshmen on campus, they say, it certainly is in the broader society. But the Preside11t's proposal, charge critics, di:verts national attention from other pressing priorities. \Students are concerned; that the Bosh proposal does not do anything but spend a lot of plan which has sparked significant student action is a new requirement for receivi11g, Pell Grants-- the federal· grant which allows many middle- and low-income students to attend .schooL But it has sp,arked opposition, not supiJort, Drugs on The-Decline Use of Marijuana, Coca;ne and Cigarettes by College Students The new policy adopted by tbe federal government this fall requires all students who receive Pell Grants to sign a pledge promising not to use or 20% 10% Cocaine 1980 1983 1984 - 1985 1986 selldrugs. 1 A student caught using ()r selling illegal drugs after making this pledge can be fined up to $10,000 and be prosecuted not only for these offenses, but for fmud as well. Student leaders argue that the pledge discriminates against students who requite financia~ aid. \This policy punished poor kids who use drugs but does nothing to punish rich kids,\ · Sclafani says. Self·reported use of substances within the last 30 days among 1 ,200 full·tirne American students. Students are sitting out the current War on Drugs. But the \Just Say No\ message has had an impact, and drug use· on campus is clearly down from previous years. In general. student leaders are willing to tolerate some drug use as long as students are not using so~ called \hard drugs\ and as long as it does .not lead to the violence that occurs in low- income urban areas. Source: National Institute on Drug Abuse. direclor of the Coalition of Campos Alcohol and Drug Educators, agree&. \There is definitely a change of attitude on campuses when it comes to drug use,\ she says. \The 'Just Say No' programs have educated many high school and believed marijuana should be legalized; by 1988 that figure had dropped to 19 .3%. Many stude11t leaders say that the Bush plan has not won student recruits because it is a flawed proposal. While drugs may not be a major problem money to garner political support for the President,\ says Georgetown's Martz. \They should tie an effort to stopping drugs. to education and poverty because those two things directly affect the drug issue.\ The one aspect of the Bnsh *Richard Williams, a business analyst with PIMS Associates: The Strategic Planning Institute, will speak on \The State of Strategic Planning\ at the 3:45 p.m. MBA Colloquium on·Thursday, Nov. 2, in Room 312 of Bailey Hall, sponsored by the Graduate Management Institute. pl pr Wl b) leJ to C<l av nt vi de WI ad pl te: pl w H Rl ar in pr - It SE rc p: st -·~ SE r.- b: - vi ci c~ st pl tc iii SC tl tl f1 c:

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Ntn't!mber 2, 1989 illnncnrbiensis NEWS ANALYSIS de Klerk's Direction Questioned Despite Prisoner Release By JON KELLER On October 10, South African President F.W. de K Jerk announced that several leaders of the banned African National Congress (ANC) would be released from prison, imluding Walter Sislu, a close associate of Nelson Mandela who was convicted with him in 1964. The 77-ycar-old Sisle ran the d,ay-to-day operations of the ANC as its Secretary General fmm 1949 to 1954, when the government forced him to resign. In 1963, he was seized in a government raid on ANC headquarters in Rivonia. Later, The question of just how serious Mr. de Klerk is about reforming tbe political and social structure of South Africa is once again being raised, particularly by members of the black resistance. he was convicted, along with Mandcla, for sabotage and plotting to overtihrow the government. His original sentence was for life in prison. The move ~hculd be considered notllin~ short of extraordinary, as Mr. Sislc represents a politic[~} figure of tremendous notori-ety. Perhaps only Mandcla ilimself has greater prestige lll1lGng South Africa's blacks. 'Thus, the question of just l:iow serious Mr. de Klerk is about reforming the JOI iLical and social structure of So11th Africa is once again 1Jci11g raised, particularly by members of the black resistance. The ' Archbishop Desmond Tutu expressed both bis interest and his concern in a statcml!nt he made, explaining th[lt he wanted to establish whether Mr. de Klerk \is serious about dismantling apartheid and entering negotiations to ~ring about a truly dernocratic South Africa.\ In a conc1:1rring statement, the Reverend Frank Chikane, General Secretary of the South African Cou11cil of Churches, said tltat \if we do not get a clear indicati~m of what Mr. de K:lerlc is going to do, and his aim is just to release leaders to come and live in an apartheid society, then we will continue calling for sanctions against this co11ntry.\ In addition t<> Sisle, si~ other political prisoners are to be freed as well. Ahmed Kathradan, 60, Andrew Mlangeru, 63, Elias Motsoaledi, 65, and Raymond Mhlaba, 69, wh~ briefly took command of the ANC's military wing when Mandela's associates were arrested, will also be released after 15 years - in pris<'Jn. Oscar Mpetha, who at 80 years of age is South Africa\.s oldest political prisomer, wiH also be freed. Mpetha was convicted on a terrorism charge in 1983, while serving as the ANC leader in the Cape Province of South Africa. As expected, the freeings have once again given rise to the movement to free Mandela himself. Thus far, he has refused offers of freedom with Thus tar, Mandela ltas refuse<! offers of freedorn with the condition that he re11ounce the use of viole11ee in the fight to topple the white-led gover11ment. the co11dition that he renounce the use of violence in the fight to topple the white-led government. However, it is still unk:::nown whether de Klerk plans to release Mandela at a later date. When asked directly aboat :Plans to free Mandela, de Kler.k ~aid that his release \is not n()w on the agenda.\ War On Drugs: All Quiet On The Campus Front By CHRISTOPHER C. BLANKER NATIONAL STUDENT NEWS SERVICE -- President Eush has won few recruits in IJis War on Drugs from the rranks of college students, ac;cording to campus leaders across the country. Some students are even working to overturn one key element of che Bush campus anti-drug plan. On September 5th, the Jlresident announced a new anti- drug initiative identifying ••casual\ drug use as one of the targets of the campaign. The Jllan includes strategies to make college campuses drug- ~ree by requiring schools to «levelop anti-drug guidelines and penalties in order to receive federal funds. It also requires students to sign anti-drug )Jiedges to be eligible to receive certain educational grants. Many students resist the ~ ush plan because they do not Jlerceive drugs to be a problem 10n their campus. A recent study from the IN ational Institute on Drug Abuse supports this opinion. The number of college students who acknowledged using marijuana in the last 30 days is down to 16.8% of students in 1988 from 23.6% in 1985-- a drop of almost 30%. The study shows an even more significant decrease in the amount of cocaine used by students. In 1985, the figure stood at 6.9% of college students, while in 1988, it was 4.2%-- a drop of nearly40%. Margo Rosenkranz, project college students about the dangers of drug 11se. They are choosing a substance-free lifestyle.\ This is rcflec ted in a study conducted by tile. American Council on EdLJc:ation. The study shows th.al in 1978, 49.5% of all collc~c freshmen on campus, they say, it certainly is in the br-oader society. But the President's proposal, charge critics, diverts national attentio-n from other pressing priorities. \Students are concerned that the Bush pmp()sal does not do anything but SJ)end a lot of Drugs on The Decline Use of Marijuana, Cocaine and Cigarettes by Cof/ege Students 30% Cigarettes 20% 10% Cocaine 1980 19R1 1982 1983 19B4 1985 1986 Self-reported use of substances within the last 30 daysa1111ong 1,200 full-time American students. Source: National Institute on Drug Abuse. director of the Coalition of Campus Alcohol and Drug Educators, agrees. \There is definitely a change of attitude on campuses when it comes to drug use,\ she says. \The 'Just Say No' programs have educated many high school and believed marijiJafla should be legalized; by 19~8. that figure had dropped to 19.3.%. Many student l~ders say that the Bush plan Ius not won student recruits because it is a flawed proposal. While drugs may not be a majl{)r problem NSN$'/:\\..:::W money to garner political support for the President,\ says Georgetown's Martz. \They should tie an effort to stopping drugs to educati()n and poverty because tl!ose two things directly affect the drug i~;sue.\ The one aspect of the Bush plan which has sparked significant student action is a new reqnirement for receiving Pell Grants-- the federal grant whicll allows many middle- and low-income students to attend school. But it has sparked opposition. not support. The new policy adopted by the fooeral government this fall requi:res all students who receive Pell Grants to sign a pledge promising not to use or sell <lmgs. A student caught using or selli11g illegal drugs after making this pledge can be fined up to $10,000 and be prosecuted not only for these offenses, but for fraud as well. Student leaders .argue that the pledge discriminates against St\lden~ who require financiaJ aid. \This policy punished poor kids who use drugs but does nothing to punish rich kids,\ Sclafani says. S tu(Jents are sitting out the current War on Drugs. But the \Just Say No\ message has had an irnpact, and drug use on camp11s is clearly down from previ()US years. In general, stude11t leaders are willing to tolerate some drug use as long as students .are not using so- called \'hard drugs\ and as long as it does not lead to the violeJJce that occurs in low- incGme urban areas. *Enrique Galvez, a physics professor at Colgate University, ~ill,speaJ~ o~ :·;,.;,·,:-. \Experiments with Quantal.Systems.in. , . *Richard Williams, a business analyst with PIMS Associates: The Strategic Planning Institute, will speak on \The State of Strategic Planning\ at the 3:45 p.m. MBA Colloquium on Thursday, Their Classical Chaotic Regi1neu at 3:30 p .. m. Friday, Nov. 3, in Science and Engineering Nll4, sponsored by the Physics Departn1ent and preceeded by Nov. 2, in Room 312 of Bailey Ha11, sponsored by the Graduate Management Institute. pr pn wa by lef to COl av: ma vis dOi we ad1 ph ter ph WI Hi Ra an inf pr< - Vii cil ca stt pr' to in so th th fr C<l p~

CONCORDIENSIS, N()vember 2, 1989 Page 3 Thieves Target ,Union Campus By MATT' LANNI One of the major security problems on .campus is propped doors. Trespassers walk into donns unchaHenged by students when. entrances are left open. Last year, responding to this campus threat,. a few courtesy phones were made available outside of dorms to make it easier for students to visit other students inside the dorms. This .system seemed to work, so security is making an addition .of 8 more courtesy phones by the end of winter term. These -phones will be placed outside Davidson, Webster_, Richmond, North, Hickok, Potter South, and · Raymond North. These phones are hoped to be a positive influence to .students not to prop dObrS. It takes a thief 15-20 seconds to go into a room, shuffle some ,papers, find a wallet, steal it and leave • • • It _takes longer than 20 seconds to talk to a friend or go to the bathroom.· Union students are often viewed as wealthy by the citizens of Schenectady. -This cau$CS a big problem fOr Union students. It makes the student's property extremely susceptible to theft. Another big problem occurs inside dorms that can be easily solved~ Many students leave their doors open when going to the bathroom or talking to· a friend down the hall. This causes a prime opportunity for people to walk in and steal property. \It takes a thjef 15-20 seconds to go into a room, shuffle some pape11.s, find a wallet. steal it and leave,\ explains Director -of Security Paul Mantica; As many students know; it takes longer . than twenty seconds to llilk to · friends or go to the bathroom. · To solve this problem students either :have to talk fast (in less than twenty seconds), go to the batfiroom extremely quickly, or take the sensible route and lock the door. Along with. property being stolen inside the donn, bicycle.~ locked up outside are being stolen. \Most of the bikes that are being stolen cost 400-50() dollars, and studeats need to take the necessary precautions;~· says Mantica. Precautions that should be taken include buying a solid link tempered 'chain~ chaining the bike through the front wheel, and tbiough tbe frame onto a- stationary object. Bikes should also be registered at the security office, which .is- free. When a bike is registered a sticker will be .put on the bike. This will help security officers identify a student's bike when a townsperson is riding it through campus. \We are a- big ·target,· ami since we are a target. let us now be a vulnerable target. Let us limit opportunities for thieves to steal,\ concludes Mantica ...... If any student, dorm floor, or organization wishes to learn more about crime prevention, contact :Paul Mantica, or Bob Tomeck at the Security ami Safety Office. Reported Security Incidents Week of 10/23-10/29 DATE 1 o.-24 ld-24 10-2 ·s 10-25 10-25 10-25 10-25 10-26 10-26 10-26 10-26 10-26' 10-27 10-27 10-28 10-2B 10-28 l0-28 10-28 10~28 10-28 10-28 10-29 10-29 10-29 10-29 LOCATIO.N Administration .Becker Circle College Center Lamont House Lamont House Lenox Rd Hal.e House. Security Office Delta Phi Richmond West College Sout.h Col. Lot 'Sec-urity Office Fox House North College R1chmond !IIICIDENT Forced entry attempt reported. Auto accident, minor damage to Parked vehicle. Student key reeovered The-ft reported. Theft reported. Apple thrown at car .from campui car blocked in 'by another vehicl~. Towed. Despondent student. Fire alarm, caused by smolder ir door. Theft of puJ;\ii!e :repoi't ed. Suspicious person. Vandalism-cat window smashed. Assist SPD in suspect ident- ification. Broken window needing repair. ongoing problem with annoyance telephone calls reported. . · Student ill from ~xcess altoho: · consumption. Alexander[South Ln Vandalism to Stop sign. Hale House Dining Antique pitcher ~iscovered missing All Night Study Achiiles Rink Achilles to Off Campus Raymond House Unioh Ave South campus Raymond House Psi Upsilon Computer keybo~rd repotted missing. Stud~nts with alcohol in rink removed. Students followed from event to horne by male youth. Unable to lotate suspect. Stolen wallets r~port~d. V.ts·itorsinvc-1\rd ir. :~ltenatio Erratic driver reported. Advised. Vandalism to f.i:te door. Motorbike reported stolen. Aware:ness Week Comes T,o· A Close Continued from page 1 According to -one Union biology professor, the program is designed to \strengthen current knowledge and keep the community up to date on this growing problem. Until we .find a cure (which is not in the close foreseeable future), we must continue to educate people so that they have the 'b¢st possible knowledge of this . deadly d!sease-\ In addition to the various lectures and discussions, there will be ongoing videos, a drug education vehicle, and two different workshops for men and women. Everything is open to the public at no cost and further infonilation can he obtained by contacting the biology department secretary. State Of The Union By DAVID COHEN Unbeknownst to many students, the calendar for the college year of 1990~_91 will be markedly different in one aspect. This difference concerns the schedule at the end of fall term. The calendar for next fall provides for a Tllanksgiving break, then a return to class for a week, followed by final exams. The reasons for this scheduling change certainly arc not laking the students' w ishcs into consideration. What will this new schedule do for the students? wen, the new schedule will interrupt the end of the fall term, taking the students out -of their academic environment for a week. The new schedule will also keep many of the students, who actually do not live in the Northeast, from going horne for Thanksgiving. The new schedule will also shorten the winter break which many students count on for a large share of their yearly income. So, what are tbe benefits to the students fr<Jm this new. schedule? Well ... ? The .new scihedule is just another exarnpl~ of something the Administra~ion has put into effect while disregarding the stud-ents' wishes. Tlwse students who were at Union ·in the fall of 198 7 remember a similar schcdu le to the one planned for the 1990-91 year. The students expressed . overwhelming disapproval of that schedule. The students now arc conveying disapproval for next year's c2lendar. Why is the administrati{)n overlooking this negative feedback? Perhaps the Administration is again putting their own wishes ahead of those of the students. Over the co11rs~ of the ncx t week a student survey will be conducted. Tbis survey is intended to show the administration what the interests and feelings of the students really are. In order for this survey t<> be successful, EVERY STUDENT must participate. The following three events are scheduled to end AIDS Awareness Week\ Thursday November2 Minerva Hour A di5cussion witb people with AIDS (PWAs) Moderated by WendyShotsky, director of educa- tion, AIDS Council of Northeastern New York 11 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel, Union College Buffet Luncheon 12:30 - 2 p.m. Hale House Dining Room, Union College Cost $6.95, registration required For reservations, call370-6241 Friday November3 .u AlDS Curriculum Update\' Keynote by Dr. Edward Doucet, internist Mini-workshops for Schenectady County Tcach- ersin New York State Curriculum, Youth Expres- sion Theater, Psychological Aspects of AIDS. No()n • 4 p.m. Linton High School Auditorium 370-8173

CONCORDIENSIS, Novi!mber 2, 1989 Page 3 Thieves Target ·Union Campus By MATT LANNI One of tlle major security problems on campus is propped de<>rs. Trespassers walk into doliiDs unchallenged by students when entrances are left open. Last year, responding to this campus threat, a few courtesy ph~mes 'Yere made available outside of dorms to make it easier for students to visit other students inside the dorms. This system seemed to work, so secmity is making an addition of g more courtesy phones by tlie end of winter term. These phones will be placed outside Davidson. Webster, Richmond, North. Hickok, POo~ter South, and Raymond North. These phones. are hoped io be a positive influence tOo students not to prop doors. It takes a thief 15-20 seconds tCJ go into a room, sh11ffle some papers, fiad a wallet, steal it and leave • • • It takes longer than 20 seconds to talk to a friend or ~o to the bathroom. Union students are often viewed as wealthy by the citizens of Schenectady. This causes a big ]>roblem for Union students. It makes the student's property extremely susceptible to theft. Another D-ig problem occurs inside dorms that can be easily solved. Matty students leave their doors li)pen when going to the bathroom or talking to a friend down the hall. This causes a prime opportunity foi people to walk in and steal property. \It takes a thief 15-20 seconds to go into a room, shuffle some papers, find a wallet, steal it and leave,\ explains Director of S~curity Paul Mantica. As many students know, it l'akes longer than twenty seconds to t.:.tlk to friends or go to the ba~hroom. To solve this problem students either have to talk fast (in less than twenty seconds), go to the bathroom extreme!)' quickly, or take the sensible route and lock the door. Along with property being stolen inside the dorm, bicycles locked up outside are being stolen. \Most of the bikes that are being stolen cost 400-SOO dollars, and students need to take the necessary precautions,\ says Mantica. Precautions that should be taken include buying a solid link tempered chain, chaining the bike through the front wheel, and through the frame onto a stationary object. Bikes should also be registered at the security office, which is free. When a bike is registered a sticker will be put on the bike. This will help security officers identify a student's bike when a townsperson is riding it through campus. \We are a big target, and since we arc a target let us now be a vulnerable target. Let us limit opportunities for thieves to steal,\ concludes Mantica. If any student, dorm floor, or organization wishes to learn more about crime prevention, contact Paul Mantica, or Bob Tomeck at the Security and Safety Office. Reported Security Incidents Week of 10/23-10/29 DATE LOCATION 10-24 Adl!llinistration 10-24 Becker Clrcle 10-2 5 College Center 10-25 Lamont House 10-25 Lamont House 10-25 Lenox Rd 10-25 Hale Hcuse 10-25 Security Office 1o-2o Delta Phl 10-26 Richmond 10-26 West College 10-26 SOout h Col. Lot 10-27 Securlty Office 10-27 Fox: House 10-28 NDI:'th College 10-28 flichmond INC:I'f)ENT Forced entry attem~reported. Auto accident, minor damage to il'arked vehicle. Student key recovered 'Theft reported. 'Theft reported. Apple thrown at car from campu' Car blocked in by another vchlc1e. Towed. Despondent studen~ Fire alarm, caused by smolderir <loor. ~heft of purse reported. Suspicious person. Vandalism-car window smashed. Assist SPD in suspect ident- tftcation. Broken window needing repair. Ongoing problem Wlth annoyance telephone calls reported. Student ill from excess alcoho: consumption. 10-26 10-26 Alexander/South Ln Vandalism to Stop sign. Hale House Dining Antique pitcher discovered missing 10-26 10-28 10-28 10-28 All Night Study Achilles Rink Achilles to Off Campus fla.ymond House 10-29 Union Ave 10-29 South campus 10-29 Raymond House 10-29 Psi Upsilon Computer keyboard reported missing. Students with alcohol in rink removed. Students followed from event to home by male youth. Unable to locate suspect. Stolen wallets reported. Visitors invC'l'licd ir. altercatio Erratic driver reported. Advised. Vandalism to fiie door. Motorbike reported stolen. Awareness Week Comes To A Close Continued from p;~ge 1 According to one Union biology professor, the pFogram is designed to \strengthen current knowledge andkeep the community up to date on this growing problem. Until we find a cure (which is not in the close foreseeable futtue), we must continue to educate people so that they !lave the best possible knowledge of this deadly disease.\ In addition to the various lectures and discussions, there will be ongoing videos, a drug education vehicle. and two different workshops for men and women. Everything is open to the public at no cost and further informatiun can be obtained by contacting the biology department secretary. State Of The Union By DAVID COHEN Unbeknownst to many students, the calendar for the college year of 1990-91 will be markedly different in one aspect. This difference concerns the schedule at lile end of fall term. The calendar for next fall provides for a Thanksgiving break, then a rctllm to class for a week, followed by final exams. The reasoHs for this scheduling change certainly <trl~ not taking the students' wishes into consideration. What will this new schedllle do for the students? Well, the new schedule wiU interrupt the end of the fall term, taking the students out of tbcir academic environment for a week. The new schedule will also keep many of the students, who actually do not live in the Northeast, from going home for Thanksgiving. The new schedule will also shorten the winter break which many students count on for a large share of their yearly income. So, what are the benefits to the students from this new schedule? Well ... ? The new schedule is just another example of something the Administration has put into effect while disregarding the students' wishes. Those students who were at Union in the fall of 1987 remember a similar schedule to the one -planned for the 1990-91 year. The students expressed overwhelming disapproval of that schedule. The students now arc conveying disapproval for next year's calendar. Why is the administration overlooking this negative feedback? Perhaps the Administration is again putting their own wishes ahead of those of the studcnl'i. Over the course of the next week a student survey will be conducted. This survey is intended to show the administration what the interests and feelings of the students really arc. In order for this survey to be successful, EVERY STUDENT must participate. The following three events are scheduled to end AIDS Awareness Week\ Thursdav November2 Minerva Hour A discussion with people with AIDS (PWAs) Moderated by Wendy Shotsky, director of educa- tion, AIDS Council of Northeastern New York 11 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel, Union College Buffet Luncheon 12:30 - 2 p.m. Hale House Dining Room, Unlon College Cost $6.95, registration required For reservations, ca 11 370-6241 Fridav November 3 u AIDS Curriculum Update\ Keynote by Dr. Edward Doucet intembt Mini-workshops for Schenectady County Teach- ers in New York State Curriculum, Youth Expres- sion Theater, Psychological Aspects of AIDS. Noon- 4 p.m. Linton High School Auditorium 370-8173 South Carolina Hurricane Hugo Survivors Need Your Help ·Residents of South Carolina coastal communities are in dire. need of. basic supplies to enable them to begin the reconstruction 9f hurricane ravaged communities» An appeal is being sent to merchants in the .Capital District to contribute such items'as baby supplies (formulas, diapers, baby food), campi~g supplies (b~tt~riest flas~ights, Cole~~m stoves, tents, coolers, wadmg boots), buddmg supplies (constructJOn mitterials 1 work glqves\ etc.), clothing (rain slickers,. blue jeans), and . bedding. ·. · ~ Tbe_ magnitude of the disaster is still growing as the fundamental neetss'iti~$ offuba~ watert clothing and shelter ate not yet available to · tlie''tJiooja'll:ls ofrolal residents in the many counties oJ South Carolina ·•. · frt>m,:tlle·cnarleston t() Myrtle Beach areas and beyond.. . :\·'··\*•:Ct>nta~ttions .. of tlilese.materlals~ ()r financial support are bemg accepted by:··'·' '\''· ·· · ·st~~·<B'l'\i'd'gft; ·Mother Provinchd· .·i'·i!:J . .))j,(lle;l•·:\•f·)~ll1JJJI ·:Our· ··.~alfiJ>'&f Merey. .\\\. ),<~·'\' ·\·%'\'\' .,.4..!4 ... i'4l£t~Joh.nson Rd •. . ,,, :;.:-:. P .·o~ lox 12410 ·ctt·ath!stfin;·· sc · 29412 ~<;:;ii'fel'iu.·gs to Thank you, ·at ...... :,:,.,;,.,_..· ... :. ,,\. Ma;rr.a

Page 4 The President's Commission on The Status of Women at Union College College Center Room 409 Thursday November 2, 1989 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. Fumiko Mori Halloran Topic: \PrQjessional Women in Japan and the United States\ Fumiko Mori Halloran .is a visiting Woodrow Wilson Scholar, writer, fonner senior political analyst. She won (he Japanese equivalent of the Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction. She has written extensively on American culture as seen through the eyes of a Japanese. Her book, \From the . City of WaslzirJg{QJL \. There will be a reception following the presentation sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union College. Box 25ll9. Union Cuilege. Schem'!ctudy. t'\.Y 12:308 CONCORDJENSIS, November .2, 1989 . GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown m the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS &: FRIDAYS: FRENCH GERMAN SPANISH 1:30PM 3:00PM 4:00PM • TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30PM CHINESE 2·:00 PM JAPANESE. 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News. is also recorded from Morocco, Korea:, and Italy and, upo1;1 request, from Mexico., Greece, and canada. other programs may be available in the future. Faculty are welcome to J;l·orrow :tapes, ordinaril.y, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Janet L~nehan, Language Lab Technician, X62l.6, WE DO BUSINESS IN ONLY ONE PLACE. We invite all Seniors from SUNY-Albany and Union to get to know our people and career opportunities · Investment. Banking Reception Monday, November 6 at 2:00p.m .. Desmond Americana Hotel 660 Albany-Shaker Rd., Albany Salomon Brothers . ' - - - b(: th A Al de de et1 sa pr Tl w te dJ N w gl tl c: I I .I

· CONCORDIENSIS, Nttvember 2,_ 198.9 Page 5 FEATURES ' .. \ Students Get High As A.merica Dies Relax On A Sunday .Afternoon .. .Skydiving Qy JON HENES H~re's the scenario. A beautiful campus inhabited by the cre111e de la creme of American youth. This American youth is in its rooms doing drugs, smoking pot. doing coke, eating 'shrooms .• etc. The youth does this in\dle safe haven of the campus gates protected from the \real world,\ The youth has no fears, no worries, except for maybe a test or a paper, and theyjust do drugs whenever they please. Now let's look at the outside world; There is death, murder. racism, poverty, growing ghettos, and fear. The cause of these horrors is drugs, but the campus and the students ar:e safe, so who cares. The administration is happy with their beautiful campus,· their five.-star rating in t\le Barron's B-ook of Colleges, so they will turn their backs on the fact that drugs are done openly on the campus, and therefore tum their backs on the outside world. And those who dQn't do drugs, they sit back and let it happen; they don't try to stop the problem; they ar.e also to blame. Wow, what a scenario .• .pretty sad huh? Pretty scary, huh? But even more scary is that it is truth and it is Union College and the rest of the colleges and universities in this country. Although the scenario is not as extreme as reality, drugs are a huge and horrible problem that the members of this college tend to ignore. The drug users on this campus are not killers, but they are helping to destroy our country, and those of us who do not do drugs. but also do not do LO anything to help stop. the drug problem, are also to_ blame. The drug problem is the major issue in America today and the government is waging a drug war, but they cannot win this war without our belp. By our, I mean everyone. It is sad that so many people oil this campus do drugs. It is sad that the youth of this country have so many problems that it must escape reality through drug use. It is sad when people say that it is O.K. for college students to experiment with drugs, when drugs kill. lt is sad that the students who are going to be the leaders of our country are more concerned with getting a little high. than- abstaining and trying to make this country a better place to live for themselves, for their kids, and for the rest of America. Drug. use is sad. _ There is no answer to the drug problem, ,but William Bennett, the ])rug Czar (he was appointed by President Bush to lead dle war on drugs), has. a good start to answering the question of how to stop the problem: \The white middle class user needs to be coerced, needs to be told that his benavior won't be tolerated.\ And that mean~ the Union College Student Let's work on this school first and prove that we care about our country and ourselves. All around. campus , are people, or organizations, writing or campaigning against animal cruelty, alcohol abuse, date rape, apartheid, etc. and these are things that are very important to stop, and must be stopped, but let's not forget about or ignore America's biggest problem. Let's fight back against drugs! By JAN BE~LAGE Ever wonder what there is to • do in. the beautiful Schenectady area during the day on Saturday and Sunday? Although I'm sure the thought of getting out of bed on the weekends before 8 pm deeply offends some · people, .other people like to · spend a relaxful weekend in a · different way. For these people !he weekends were made for .skydiving. While the Schenectady area may not be host to any major league sporting teams, it dQes have one of the top skydiving centers in the country. Just about 45 minutes away from Union Colle_ge off of 87 South is the Albany Skydiving Center. The first thing you will be told when you walk into the Albany Skydiving Center is, \Yes there is a chance that you . · can die skydiving!\ You will,. · then be literally asked to sign your life away. You will sign a document that has statements, such as, \I expressly and voluntarily assume aU risk of death or personal injury sustained while parlicipaing in 'parachuting activities' whether or not caused by the negligence or other fault of Albany Skydiving Center.\ This might sound ·like a small setback to 'c~uting. However, you probably stand a better chance of killing yourself on the ride over than act11ally skydiving. Modem technology has made jumping a few thousand feet out of a plane a sane act. Out of all the thousands of jumps done at the Albany Skydiving Center, there has never been a fatal fall. The chances that on your first jump your parachute TIME INC. MAGAZINES (TIME SPORTS ILLUSTRATED,.MONE1 FORTUNE, LIFE, ECT.) HAVl . .. INVITED UNION COLLEGE STUDENT~ TO PARTICIPATE IN THEIR PRESTIGIOU: SUMMER EDITORIAL INTERN PROGRAM THIS SALARIED, NINE WEEK PROGRAM INCLUDE: SEVERAL DIFFERENT POSITIONS FOR QUALIFIEI UNDERGRADUATES, BETWEEN THEIR JUNIOR ANl SENIOR YEARS, WHO WISH TO GAIN EXPERIENCE H MAGAZINE AND BOOK PUBLISHING. MATERIAL: ARE DUE IN THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTEl BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10. STOP INTO THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER FOR MORE INFORMATION. DON'T MISS OUT ON THIS WOND:aRFUL OPPORTUNITY!! will fall is about one in a billion. Even if you :beat the odds and your first chute doesn't open, not to worry,_ you have a reserve parachute that will open up automatically. The Albany Skydiving Center offers two types of beginner courses. First is the tandem jump course. With this ·· first jump the student is attached to an instructor as they perform a free fall jump. The tandem course is ideal for the person who just wants to experience a free tall once. The Qi.her nice. thing about a tandem jump is that it only requires a half an hour in the classroom. The second course starts the beginner chuter on a static line. To prepare for a first static jump, the student must arrive at the center at 9 am either on Saturday or Sunday. After a full day of class; the student takes to the sky for his or her first jump. Once five static line jumps have been completed, the student graduates on to free fall jumps. I already know of a few Delta Chi and Psi Upsilon brothers who have jumped into the wonderful_world of skydiving along with many women outside of the Union campus. They all agree with me that it is the experience of a lifetime. The first time I went I did a static line jump. Whatever second thoughts you might have about leaping three t~pusand feet from a plane moving eighty miles per hour quickly disappears when· you start to hang from the wing of the plane. I doubt anybody could have been as scared as I. I waited in the back of the plane to jump, but with the wind roaring across my body as I dangled from the wing, I felt :;uch a rush that I forgot my fears. Som~ people when they actually make their first jump get such a surge of emotion that time freezes. They remember letting go of the plane and then the next thing they remember is feeling the pull of the parachute opening. Take my word for it, there is nothing more relieving than feeling your parachute open on your first jump. As soon as your chute opens the world suddenly goes quiet. The roaring winds stop as you and your multi-colored parachute drift slowly down to the ground. Although the Albany Skydiving Center is 45 minutes from Union College, as you float downward you can make out the campus in the background, while on the other side you can sec the sun setting behind the mountains. Everyone at the Albany Skydiving Center after their first jump falls in love with the sport and wants to jump again. The one minor problem wilh skydiving is the cost. the combined cost of Lhe beginner's course and a first jump is $150. Every additional jump after that is $40, until you get your type A license. Once you get your license, jumps only cost $12 each. Two of the people that got me involved in skydiving, Mike Norwalk and Tom Dunn, are trying to start a Union Parachuting Club. This organization would allow people to get a $10 discount on all their jumps. If skydiving sounds like something you might be interested in and you want more information on it, you can call Mike Norwalk at 377M9110, or write to P.O. Box 1630 or 95. Sometimes YQU are whatyou daiteat 16. Don't eat a thing on the Thursday before Thanksgiving. Then join the six million Americans who, since 1973, have maftect us the money they saved to support our life-saving projects. You'll not only leam what it's like to go hungry. You'll know how good it feels to help thOse who are. Please write: ''Fast for a World Harvest,\ 0 115 Broadway, Dept. 4000, Boston, MA 02116 .. · ,. rt.arn· . ~~ Ot call [OJ more infumation: (617) 4112·1211:Alll~nca1

. ' Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS 1 No.¥ember 2, 1989 FEATURES The Road Less Traveled By Ca ROBERT FRIEDRICH Stepping outside of my door all()wed one of tile few dry leaves surrounding the place to cr~ckle under my feet. It seemed to know where I was going, and wanted me to know it. After all, it had already been there. The walk lagged along as usual, moving from one zone of existence into another, less noteworthy, yet more alive. Finally. after a slippery decent, I was among my friends, among the dead. They were of all shapes and si:zes, creeds and colors, wealth and ,poverty, but as diverse as th.ey were, they were all the S[l]ne-dcad. My boots worked th:eir way th.rough the leaves, w:ater, and mud, getting sucked even further down every time I took 311other step. The work of our meeting was 11-p to me. as they were always there waiting, never moving anywhere. I first came to those whom I am most familiar, the most living of the dead. 'these friends were very secure, and as I approached them, I saw that they aU looked the same, solemnly standing, granite- like, never altering~ awaiting approval. I realized this before engaging them, and decided that we had nothing new to talk about. After exchanging tbe normal formalities, theref<>re, I left them. They didn't appear to mind, either. M:oving on, the road widened, and thankfully haniencd to the point that I didn't have to worry about getting sucked in. Along the patll, I took in the serenity of the scenery, accompanied by the ebb of a ncar})y current. Quite unexpectedly, I came upon a most strange lot, of \American Pictures: A Dane's J oumey Through America's Underclass\ Hy Sheila Conway and Julie Davis \American Pictures\ is a pllotographic essay illustrating the wealth and poverty in America, as seen through the e)leS of Jacob Holdt. This Da.nish man travelled throughout the United States c~pturing human conditions inconceivable to the average middle class citizen. \As an outsider having grown up in a Eumpean social welfare state J' .ac<>b Holdt ~hallenges e-stablished Am.erican thought :()attems by demonstrating the e-normous financial and human c~sts of life withopt cradle·to- g;tave security.\ The presentation not only cleals with the economic clive:rsity in America, but also clernonstrates the psychological costs of racism on both the black'and the white mind. Not ln.ving been exposed to an erlV ironment of such o-rerwhelming prejudice, Holdt is tlms able to effectively pres:cnt the injustices that thousands of people face everyday in America. \American Pictures\ has proved extremely valuable at a number of colleges and universities. It is shown at over 200 schools throughout the country and has become a mandatory part of freshman orientation at a number of places. It was shown at Union last year and met with tremendous success. In view of the far-reaching and often devastating effects \American Pictures·· can have on a person's views, Union College has chosen to support this revealing exposition. Students for Political Awareness and Action also recognizes the .prof<>und importance of Jacob Holdt's insight. As a res11lt, SPAA presents \American Pictllfes\ for the second time at Union College. Please join Jacob Holdt in his journey through America's underclass on Thursday, Novemoer 9th at 7:00 p.m. in SS 016. whose names I had heard of somewhere, but had never really met. As unfamiliar with their lodgings as I was with their names., I pmceeded carefully, not knowing where to step, trying not to offend or disturb them all. to do it? Here? l couldn't, hut I had no other choice. To swallow would be wrong. So I spat very carefully, but accidently bit one of them. \Double· drat,\ I thought, \How will they ever forgive me, llow can they ever understand me? by then be too thick to cross, as the rain cleansed their faces, eroding them away ever so slightly with each drop. r took up the new route with increased tempo, for no real reason·, but without any real control of it, either. Such interesting people they· were! And of such odd combination. Each one logically did not fit in with any of the others. 1 thought this all odd, because the people here that I knew the best fitted together sc> well, never altering, making it all so easy. AU of these folks were seemingly brought together without rhym·e or reason, and were all in various forms of decay and disarray. I resolved to leave their place because I did not want to get involved with these pe<>ple, who didn •t know me,. and therefore couldn't understand . . me, and forgive me. Again very carefully, I left their comer of the place, attempting not to stomp on any of them. The more I tried to avoid one, the. more injuriously I would land on another, more carefully hidden. What were all of these people doing here, anyway? Reaching the path, I felt a light rain beginning to fall, I decided to leave all together, taking a different route. The mud near my old friends would It was at this point that I notjced my hands. Their backs were a frigid white, almost blue or even green. The palms were a rosy red, as usual. Why ·were they Hke this? They weren't particularly cold or warm, and I was suffering no physical pain. Their complete contrast was bizarre. . . I reached the gate of ;the graveyard almost out of breath. I stood there for a minute, gathering myself, noticing ,the regular coloring returning to my hands, .despite their incessant shaking. It was time to go hmne now, yes, am()ng the living, among the dead. This scene puzzled me, but my thoughts were interrupted hy my cough, from which I found it necessary to expectorate. Where was I going ... - Procrastinate; v- (pro-cras-ti~nate) - to put Clff intentionally, llabitually and reprehensibly the doing of something that should be done; delay attending to ~omething until some later time; be slow or late in doing or attending to tllings. We could bet that basically every student on this campus has sometime in their careers at Union College procrastinated for some reason or another. The fact remains that most people spend their procrastination time doing different things. So we've compiled a list ofiop ten things sttJdents will most likely be seen doing wher procrastinating. TOP TEN THINGS TO DO WHEN PROCRASTINATING By Jess and Jen 1 o. Spend !lours reorganizing your notes only to put them right back into your notebook and. leave no better off than when you began. 9. Practice your access code. B. Frantically go through your telephone book, and attempt to get through to every number. 7. Attempt to study with someone you like .... ~. in your room. 6. Decide tnat now is the opportune time to get your lazy butt off of the couch and rent another movie from Chopper. 5. While renting that much needed movie, spend a good forty-five minutes at the bulk food samplin!) ffne cuisine. 4. Decide new that you feel sorry for yourseW because your social life is basically non-existent so you declde\to go out. · 3. Attempt to beat the highest score, and get your initials on ihe Arkanoid Screen. 2. Taking your temperature just to mal<e sure you're not too sick to do any work. 1 G . h l'b . 11111111 . o1ng tot e 1 rary ....... . Announcing Educational Studies· Program. InforDlation Meetings Monday, November 13th Meetings at lOOOAM 12:00 Noon 1:00PM ond3:30 PM in College Center Room 204 and Tuesday, November 14th Meetings at 1 :00 PM in College Center Rm 203 and 3:00 PM ,jn College Center Room 204 Q Q Students who are cons.idering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic languages, mathematics 1 science (biology, chemistry 1 earth science, physics, or genera:L science) or social studies should attend. · Information will be given regarding the underg .raduate, graduate 1 ~nd fi ve~year combined degree prograllls. -

Page 6 CONCORDIENSlS, November 2, 1989 FEATURES The Road Less Traveled By C. ROBERT FRIEDRICH Stepping outside of my door allowed one of the few dry leaves surrounding the place to crackle under my feet. It seemed to know where I was going, and wanted me to know it. After all, it had already been there. The walk lagged along as usual, moving from one zone of existence into another, less noteworthy, yet more alive. Finally, after a slippery decent, I was among my friends, among the dead. They were of all shapes and sizes, creeds and colors, wealth and poverty, but as diverse as they were, they were all the same-dead. My boots worked their way through the leaves, water, and mud, getting sucked even further down every time I took another step. The work of our meeting was up to me, as they were always there waiting, never moving anywhere. I first came to those whom 1 am most familiar. the most living of the dead. These friends were very secure, and as I approached them, I saw that they all looked the same, solemnly standing, granite· like, never altering. awaiting approval. I realized this before eHgaging them, and decided that we had nothing new to talk about. After exchanging the normal formalities, therefore. I left tllem. They didn't appear to mind, either. Moving on, the road widened, and thankfully hardened to the point lhat I didn't have to worry about getting sucked in. Along the path, I took in the serenity of the scenery. accompanied by the ebb of a nearby current. Quite unexpectedly, I came upon a most strange lot, of ''American Pictures: A Dane's Journey Through America's Underclass\ By Sheila Conway amd Julie Davis \American Pictures\ is a phoLOgraphic essay illustrating the wealth and poverty in America, as seen through the eyes of Jacob Holdt. This Danish man travelled throughout the United States capturing human conditions inconceivable to the average middle class citizen. \As an outsider having grown up in a European social welfare state Jacob Holdt challenges established American thought patterns by demonstrating the enormous financial and human costs of life without cradle-to~ grave security.\ The presentation not only deals with the economic diversity in America, but also demonstrates the psychological costs of racism on both the black and the white mind. Not having been exposed to an environment of such overwhelming prejudice, Holdt is thus able to effectively present the injustices that thousands of people face everyday in America. \American Pictures\ has proved extremely valuable at a number of colleges and universities. It is shown aL over 200 schools throughout the country and has become a mandatory part of freshman orientation at a number of places. It was shown at Union last year and met with tremendous success. In view of the far-reaching and often devastating effects \American Pictures\ can have on a person's views, Union College has chosen to support this revealing exposition. Students for Political Awareness and Action also recognizes the .profound importance of Jacob Holdt's insight. As a result, SPAA presents \American Pictures\ for the second time at Union College. Please join Jacob Holdt in his journey through America's underclass on Thursday, November 9th at 7:00 p.m. in SS 016. M~Mit!t ·· 12~i.s,~ PreR'ek, · Russian,··· Tuesday 11:45-12:45 Chinese Wednesday 12:45 .. 1:45 German, Japanese & Spanish Thursday 11:4.5-12:45 Italian whose names l had heard!. of somewhere, but had n~ver really met. As unfamiliar with their lodgings as I was ~ith their names, I proceeded carefully. not knowing where to step, trying not to offend or disturb them all. to do it? Here? I couldn't, but I had no other choice. To swallow would be wrong. So I spat very carefully, but accidently hit one of them. \Double drat,\ I thought, \How will they ever forgive me, how can they ever understand me? by then be too thick to cross, as the rain cleansed their faces, eroding them away ever so slightly with each drop. I took up the new route with increased tempo, for no real reason, btit without any real control of it, either. Such interesting people they were! And of such ~dd combination. Each cne logically did not fit in with any of the others. I thought this all odd, because the people here that I knew the best filted together so well, never altering, making it ail s0 easy. All of these folks were seemingly brought together without rhyme or reason,. and were all in various forrns of decay and disarray. I resolved to leave their place because I did not want to get involved with these people, who didn't know me, and therefore couldn't understand me, and forgive me. Again very carefully, I left their corner of the place, attempting not to stomp on any of them. The more I tried to avoid one, the more injuriously I would land on another, more carefully hidden. What were all of these people doing here. anyway? Reaching the path, I felt a light rain beginning to fall, I decided to leave all together, taking a different route. The mud near my old friends would It was at this point that I noticed my hant!ls. Their baclc.s were a frigid white, almost blue or even green. The palms were a rosy red, as usual. Why were they like this? They weren't particularly cold or warm, and I was suffering no physical pain. Their complete contrast was bizane. I reached the gate of the graveyard almost out of breatll. I stood there for a minute, gathering myself, noticing the regular coloring returning to my hands, despite their incessant shaking. It was time to go home now. yes, among the living. among the dead. This scene puzzled me, but my thoughts were intelnlpted by my cough, from which I found it necessary to expectorate. Where was I g()ing .- .. Procrastinate; v- (pre>-c:ras-ti-nate) - to put off intentionally, habitually and reprehensibly the doing of something that should be dOtne: delay attending to something until some later time; be slow or late in doing or attending to things. · We could bet that basically avery student on this campus l:las sometime in their careers at Union College procrastinated for some reason or another. The fact remains that most people spend their procrastination time doing different things. So Vle've compiled a list of top ten things students will most likely be seen doing wher procrastinating. TOP TEN THINGS TO DO WHEN PROCRASTINATING By Jess and Jen 1 o. Spend hours reorganiizing your notes only to put them right back into your notebook and leave no better off than vvhen you began. 9. Practice your access code. 8. Frantically go through your telephone book, and attempt to get through to every number. 7. Attempt to study with someone you like ..•... in your room. 6. Decide that now is the opportune time to get your lazy butt off of the couch and rent another movie from ChopJ>er. 5. While renting that rmuch needed movie, spend a good forty-five minutes at the bulk food sampling fine cuisine. 4. Decide now that you feel sorry for yourself because your social life is basically non-existent so you decide to go out. 3. Attempt to beat the hi91hest score, and get your initials on the Arkanoid Screen. 2. Taking your temperature just to make sure you're not too sick to do any work. G . h l\b 11111111 1. o1ngtot e 1 rary ...... Announcing Educational Studies PrograDl InforiDation Meetings Monday, November 13th Meetings at lO:OOAM 12:00 Noon 1:00PM and 3:30PM in College Center Room 204 and Tuesday~~ November 14th Meetings at 1 :00 PM in College Center Rm 203 and 3:00 PM in College Center Room 204 Students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic languages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, or general science) or social studies should attend. Information will be given regarding the u:, J e .r g .r d. duaL e , g r ad u at e , and f i v e - yea r c 8mb i n e d de g r c e programs. ( c 6~ s: th T m \ th 11 61 St $: c st 01 fc pl 3! 'fl 8: F

CONCORDIENSIS, November '2, 1989 Page r Courtesy of the Campu$ Coordinators for the United -Way. Did you know that Union College The College witb its 650 plus employees raised $25~000 last year with 54% of the college cemmunity giving? This year President MQnis, a m~mber of the Board of United Way,. is urging that we increase the College's contribution by 10% and the involvement to 60%. The Schenectady County .section of United Way raised ·$2,2:50 ,000 last year; the Collese's contribution thus stands at slightly rn()re than one percent of the total income for ·tile Fund. Sixty-five programs man~lged by 25 agencies .are supported with a 'flow through' to the needy of 85% ·Of money received. Fifteen percent is thus a small fraction for maintenance of the administrative structure basic to organizing the hundreds of skilled velunters and the specially skilled professionals needed· to ·execute program goals. · United Way is an essential part of Schenectady's support for the elderly, l.he illiterate, single parents with children, those- with burdens of substance abuse, troubled teenagers and many more. United Way has contact wilh the desperate people who need help-those who are relatively unseen by those who are more fortunate-and it has the needed skills which most of us lack. There are many basic reasons for giving and giving generously: it is uplifting; the United Way has a superb track ~ueBDAY ~}OA:f 1\bJem\:er_. 2.. i ,_. 1989 :rndi' vtd u:tl Cheese Pl~za- ~-- · :rrdtvtd.\»..1\ Sfreme PlZ$1.· · ~· .89~ ~· $-rop IN Now wi4JL.s Su~L 1£5 LAST 1 • FEATURE.S record in terms of ho11cst dealings (if you doubt this call them to dispell your doubts); · routine (and painless) payroll deductions avoid the very human procrastination in 'waiting' for a giving opportunity; United Way serves many in a coordinated and balanced fashio~far in()re effectively than the solitary donor can; the need is grea.tand diverse----especially among the young who if helped can be guided toward effective citizenship; federal SUPJlOrl is no longer available for many programs which would collapse without United Way; the minimum wage of $3.25 Jler hour is just not enough to keep the independent worker out .of poverty; we have increasing numbers of minorities wlkich must receive guidance in English to engage them in the community; gifts can be targeted-even to agencies outside of the Schenectady region; and every cent given to United Way is tax deductable. The United Way is one of the great bargains in the task of doing good works. The central idea this year is · the simple and direct message that a reasonable gift is just three minutes of a daily salary. This works out to be one hour of pay .per month. A biweekly gift of $3.22 will provide a week of day care for the pre- school child of a single parent; $4.35 will provide a year of 'friendly visits' for a frail elderly person; $5.50 will provide 50 hours of counselling for a battered spouse; $7.10 wiJl provide a week of job training for a mentally retarded adult; $9.00 will give the attentions of a big brother or sister for a youtli for six months; $13.29 will' provide a year of counselling for a teen at risk. Many of these services will be directed to our friends and neighbors- members of this College community and the Schenectady region. Joanne Tobiessen of the Career Development Center and: Carl George of the Biology Department are the coord.inaoors: for the Union College United Way program this year. Yo1.1r departmental representatives. will be seeing you soon. Please help us at Union College to reach our goals; participation of an increased . number of Union College employees in these essential programs will be good for al:li of us. The Twenty Minute Break By KAREN BURNS, JULIE PATTISON and BETH FISCHBEIN Do you ever wonder why twenty minutes is allotted between classes? We have come to many· conclusions about this topic; It seems that twenty minutes is not enough time to make any substantial accomplishments, yet many small daily activities may be completed. Upon observation, we have noticed a variety of things which are frequently done. How do you pass the time? -check/fight for your mail, or lack thereof. -stand in the mailroom line. -attempt to purchase a stamp from the 'out of change' stamp machine. -take a quick cruise to the bookstore for gum, always · paying with spare change. -make a transaction at the cash machine or attempt to cash a check at the seemingly always-close{! check cashing window. -cramming for the quiz you were just reminded of by a colleague. -getting a drink of waten from the ice block. -go home for the vital item needed, depending on where you live; twenty minutes is enough for on-campus residents, but not enougl! for off-campus. -check tbe food line for a drink or snack. -try to locate a professor for a last minute signature, usually with no success~ -dodge the familiar face to which you may have said something incriminatin~ the weekend before ( l.e. while under the influence). Is the full twenty minute~ necessary between classes ()r would ten minutes be sufficient time to complete these tasks?\ We'll find out next term witk schedule changes. All members of the Union College Community are cordially invited to attend the Official Opening . of Schaffer Library's Integtated Library Automation System on Tuesday, No17ember 7th at 3.110 p.m. in Schnffer Library Refreshments will be ~erved 's lJ ) in the Music Room } fJ )1 Welcome to Minerva

CONCORDIENSJS, November 2, 1989 Page 7 F·EATURES United Way Is Underway Courtesy of the Campus Coordinators for the United Way. Did you know that Union College The College with its 650 plus employees raised $25,000 last year with 54% of the college community giving? This year President Morris, a member of the Board of United Way, is urging that we increase the College's contribution by 10% and the involvement to 60%. The Schenectady County section of United Way raised $2,250,000 last year; the College's contribution thus stands at slightly more than one percent of the total income for the Fund. Sixty-five programs managed by 25 agencies are supported with a 'flow through' to the needy of 85% of money received. Fifteen percent is thus a small Tndivt\d~l Cheese P~:z Z6.- :D1div/du~d Sfreme. Rz.zt1- fraction for maintenance of the administrative structure basic to organizing the hundreds of skilled volunters and the specially skiillcd professionals needed ~o execute program goals. United Way is an essential part of Schenectady's support for the elderly, the illiterate, single parents with children, those with burdens of substance abuse, troubled teenagers and many more. United Way has contact wiLh the desperate people who need help-those who arc relatively unseen by those who are more fortunate-and it has the needed skills which most of us lack. There are many basic reasons for giving and giving generously: it is uplifting; the United Way has a superb track .59 ct S-rop IN Now wHILG SuAPL '£5 LAST I ,. record in terms of honest dealings (if you doubt this call them to dispell your doubts); routine (and painless) payroll deductions avoid the very human procrastination in 'waiting' for a giving opportunity; United Way serves many in a coordinated and balanced fashion-far more effectively than the solitary donor can; the need is great and diverse-especially among the young who if helped can be guided toward effective citizenship; federal support is no longer avai:lable for many programs which would collapse without United Way; the minimum wage of $3.25 per hourisjustnotenough mkeep the independent worker out of poverty; we have increasing numbers of minorities which must receive guidance in English to engage them in the community; gifts can be targeted-even to agencies outside of the Schenectady region; and every cent given lO United Way is tax deductable. The United Way is one of the great bargains in the task of doing good works. The central idea this year is the simple and direct message that a reasonable gift is just three minutes of a daily salary. This works out to be one hour of pay per month. A biweekly gift of $3.22 will provide a week of day care for the pre- school child of a single parent; $4.35 will provide a year of 'friendly visits' for a frail elderly person; $5.50 will provide 50 hours of counselling for a battered spouse; $7.10 wiJl provide a week of job training for a mentally retarded adult; $9.00 w111 give the attentions of a big brother or sister for a youth for six months; $13.29 will provide a year of counselling for a teen at risk. Many of these services will be directed to our friends and neighbors- members of this College community and the Schenectady region. Joanne Tobiessen of the Career Development Center and Carl George of the Biology Department are the coordinators for 1he Union College United Way program this year. Your departmental representatives will be seeing you soon. Please help us at Union College to reach our goals; participation of an increased number of Union College employees in these essential programs will be good for all of us. The Twenty Minute Break By KAREN BURNS, JULIE PATTISON and BETH FISCHBEIN Do you ever wonder why twenty minutes is allotted between classes? We have come to many conclusions about this topic. It seems that twenty minutes is not enough time to make any substantial accomplishments, yet many small daily activities may be completed. Upon observation, we have noticed a variety of things which are frequently done. How do you pass the time? -check/fight for your mail, or lack thereof. -stand in the mailroom line. -attempt to purchase a stamp from the 'out of change' stamp machine. -take a quick cruise to the bookstore for gum, always paying with spare change. -make a transaction at the cash machine or attempt to cash a check at the seemingly always-closed check cashing window. -cramming for the quiz you were just reminded of by a colleague. -getting a drink of water from the icc block. -go home for the vital item needed, depending on where you live; twenty minutes is enough for on-campus residents, but not enough for off-campus. -check the food line for a drink or snack. -try to locale a professor for a last minute signature, usually with no success. -dodge the familiar face to which you may have said something incriminating tlle weekend before (I.e. while under the influence). Is the full twenty minutes necessary between classes or would ten minutes be sufficient time to complete these tasks? We'll find out next term with schedule changes. All members of the Union College Community are cordially invited to attend the Official Opening of Schaffer Library's Integrated Library Automation System on Tuesday, November 7th at3:00 p.m. in Schaffer Library Refreshmen!s will be served ~ J\; } in the Music Room } n ~ to Minerva

Page S CONCORDIEN$IS, Nol1ember 2, l!J89. INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Comments From York By ALAN DERKAZARIAN Within three days upon my arrival at York, I realized how different the American and English educational systems were. Hoping for courses that were both interesting and different from American classes, I was soon dis- appointed, not because there were not any good ones-there were hundreds; but, most of them were too advanced for a simple liberal learning student like myself. Out of fourteen departments only three offered introductory courses. You see, the English educational system believes in specialization, as opposed to the liberal learning program us Yanks are familiar with. At the age of sixteen, the English student must decide on. one study which he/she will concentrate on until high school graduation. At the end of this detailed exposure to one subject the student will either take an 0 level (modcmte) -or A level (expert) test to determine his/her progress in this subject. If the student chooses to go to college. he/she continues with this one area of study until it is mastered. Unlike our college system-in which if you can pay, you go-only a few percent attend in England. College is very carefully considered and only attended by those who have a real desire to continue their learning. There is a definite understanding here that one attends college for the purpose of learning, unlike our blow off, take-it-for-granted attitude. for their demanding work schedule. They have fun in conjunction with school, not in spite of it. Classes are also different from America's norm. Because UNITED KINGDOM about the same· percent of students attend each, respectively. The only d iffcrcnce is that the English students start their graduate studies .six to eight years. before we do, yet again necessarily at tlle expense of a broader education. Is this time lag beneficial or detrimental to the · American student? L-------------' My answer to these the students have chosen to be here, there seems to be a purpose to classes; semething that our courses are lacking. The students talk a lot in class by their own volition, without needing the professor's constant prodding; in fact, because the students are ready to go to work, the professor themselves are a lot looser and seem more interested. There is a vitality that everyone shares. At the end of a seminar discussion, I feel as if I have learned something, been part of a cohesion between professor and student. It is not just a bunch of facts thrown at you while Joe Union is snoring away behind you-yon leave each class feeling like .some purpose has been obtained. But there are two major arguments against the English educational system· of specialization. The first is that specialization isolates one from other subjects, and this is quite true. I know one bloke who is a graphic designs major and admits to knowing nothing aboubmathematics, science, or history. This is the strength of our theory of liberal learning, we get a basic understanding of many-varied subjects. But this bloke paints so well that I have to wonder which is better, knowing a little about a lot or a lot about a little. questions is that the English system far exceeds ours. First, consider the recent poor showing of American college students in the understanding of our own history. Some think Columbus discovered the New World after 1500-many cannot place the Civil War in tbe correct half century! There are college kids who do not know this stuff! Americans consistently. place poorly against other countries of the world in competitions testing general comprehension in math, science, and history. But i$ not this exactly what a liberal learning program is · supposed to teach? England's. record on these subjects is far better than our history, so what is the use of liberal learning if it fails to educate its students better than a country ttiat specializes? I look at it this way: an English student is ignorant of. 90 percent of the subjects while understanding with desire, care, and detail 10 percent, while an American · student dabbles in 100 percent of the subjects without giving a damn about any of it. he/she wants to do with his/her life, and thus .• does not know what to care about, and thus again, ultimately does not care about anything. Th~ joy of learning· disappears from the student. leaving a hallow. intense lust for grades, beer. and superfici~ come-and,.go. facts. In conttast; the English student has to decide, early on,, what he cares about-this makes all the difference in the world. The English student is forced to choose a subject, yes, UNITED KINGDOM but the choice itself is still the students; the English student has to seriously soul-search to discover what he actually likes.. God forbid, a Union· student should like school! I am afraid that by the time the Amer~can student has to - make this choice at twenty.two or twenty·four, if he/she ever . does~ he/she will be too 1111mb frcrn lhe8e .Years of information ab11se to really know wllat he cares about at all-· the choice tnade will hold no meaning. lt is important· to be co:rifrontcd with care and quality while still in the fo.rmative stages of learning, so that . he/she will becoine a part of one. M()st of us Unionites have never had to care about anything before in our lives, and we were never challenged by others .to care~ . and so we never have car~. By the time w~ graduate and llave to make these ,qudity decisions. it will be. too late. No, the English educational system is not perfect, far from it; but. compared . t<l the American system, it seems like the best choice. · \As long as a house has good foundations it can be rebttilt\-· aacient Chinese pr().verb. The passenger pigeon. The lleatlJ h<:n The labrador duck. The Carolina par-akeet. The list of exti net animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The NatiQrtal Wildlife Fedc:ration i$ V.'orldng to save endangered 5pecies. Jtlin us while t)lere's still time, The Nati~nal Wildlife Fedet:ation 1412 16th Street.N\V, Wasl\ingtort. DC 20036·2266. College is not, as you might expect from this description, an aU-work-no-play place. Far from it-the English can drink their American counterparts under any table in the world, but they do so as a true outlet The other argument is that the English's specialization is nothing more than our Graduate schooling-in fact I think it is pretty clear that the only thing that liberal learning teaches is an indifference and apathy towar4 school. The American student is constantly bombarded with sundry facts while having no base, no purpose, for understanding any of it. The student does not know what Working for the NatLJre of TomorrC>w\' N INTERNATIONA-L TRIVIA 1. What European country boasts the most ct~rs? 2. What ·gulf forms part of the coastlin'e of both China and Uietnom? 3. Which of her daughters wos with the Princess Grace when she suffered her fatal tur accident? 4. What Asian country was Uo Chi Minh in when he form.ed the Uiet Minh? 5. What's the most common number of sta!rs on national flt1gs? 6. What continent is the mojor source of rubies? 7. What Australian state was giuen the name of the Britlsh queen? 8. What could Englishmen start paying bills with in 1681? 9. What country•s international abbreuiation .is JUGO? . 1 0. Which is closer to Tokyo by air--Anchorage, Stln f,roncisco or Seattl,e? ANSWERS auo·s tnl!tO ·v ~'fU't'.qdals ssaoupd \£ ggruoq~uv ·o1 R!A~so8o A. • 6 s~~aq:) ·g B!JOl~!A .L ll1SV \9 UpfUOJ., JO Jlt10 attt ·z. A:mruuao lS~A\ ·1 - th (o SJ e] h 0 Il th T: hi dJ ac m al 0] Sc:J th a1 E fii si - - f ) 11 \ t~ Jl II

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Comments From York By ALAN DERKAZARIAN Within three days upon my arrival at York, I realized how different the American and English educational systems were. Hoping for courses that were both interesting and different from American classes, I was soon dis- appointed, not because th~Fe were not any good ones-there were hundreds; but, most of them were too advanced for a simple liberal learning student like myself. Out of fourteen departments only three offered introductory courses. for their demanding work schedule. They have fun in conjunction with school, not in spite of it. Classes arc also different from America's norm. Because ~ UNITED KINGDOM the students have chosen to be here, there seems to be a p1:1rpose to classes; something that 01ar courses are lacking. The students talk a lot in class by their own voliLion, without needing the professor's constant prodding; in fact, because the students arc ready to go to work, the professor themselves are a lot looser and seem more interested. There is a vitality that everyone shares. At the end of a seminar discussion, I feel as if I have learned something, been part of a cohesion between pFofessor and student. It is not just a bunch of facts thrown at you while Joe Union is snoring away behind you-you leave each class feeling like some purpose has been obtained. about the same percent of students attend each, respectively. The only difference is that the English students start their graduate studies six to eight years before we do, yet again necessarily at the expense of a broader education. Is this time lag beneficial or detrimental to the American student? My answer to these questions is that the English system far exceeds ours. First, consider the recent poor showing of American college students in the understanding of our own history. Some think Columbus discovered the New World after 1500-many cannot place the Civil War in the correct half century! There :are college kids who do not know this stuff! Americans consistently place poorly against other countries of the world in competitions testing general comprehension in math, science. and history. But is not this exactly what a liberal learning program is supposed to teach? England's record on these subjects is far better than our history, so what is the use of liberal learning if it fails to educate its students better than a country that specializes? he/she wants to do with his/her life, and thus, does not know what to care about, and thus again, ultimately does not care about anythin.g. ThG joy of learning disappears from the student, leaving a hallow, intense lust for grades, beer, and superficial come-and-go facts. In contrast, the English student has to decide, early on, what he cares about-this makes aH the difference in the world. The English student is forced to choose a subject, yes, ~·~ • I - • &1.·~ UNITEC KINGDOM but the choice itself is still the students; the English student has to seriously soul-search to discover what he actually likes. God forbid, a Union student should like school! I am afraid that by the time the American student has to make l:his choice at twenty-two or twe11ty-four, if he/she ever does, he/she will be too numb from these years of information abuse Lo really know what he cares about at all-th.e choice made will hold no meaning. lt is important to be confronted with care and quality while stiU in the formative stages of learning, so that he/she wiH become a part of one. Most of us Unionites have never had t1.> care about anytlling before in our lives, and we were never challenged by others to care, and so we never have cared. By the time we graduate and have to make these quality decisions, it will be too lat.c. No, the English educational system is not perfect, f:ar from it; but, compared to the American syst.cm, it seems like the best choice. \As long as a house has good foundations it can be rebuilt\-ancient Chinese proverb. You sec, the English educational system believes. in specialization, as opposed to the Iiberal learning program us Yanks arc familiar with. At the age of sixteen, the English student must decide on one study which he/she will concentrate on until high school graduation. At the end of Lhis detailed exposure to one subject the student will either take an 0 level (moderate) ()r A level (expert) test to determine his/h·~r progress in this subject. If the student chooses to go to college, he/she continues with this one area of study until it is mastered. Unlike our college system-in which if you can pay, you go-only a few percent attend in England. College is very carcfulJy considered and only allcndcd by those who have a real desire to continue their learning. Tltcrc is a definite understanding here that one attends college for the purpose of learning, unlike our blow off, take-it-for-grarued attitude. But there are two major arguments against the English educational system of specialization. The first is that specialization isolates one from other subjects, and this is quite true. I know one bloke who is a graphic designs major and admits to knowing nothing about.mathematics, science, or history. This is the strength of our theory of liberal learning, we get a basic understanding of many varied subjects. But this bloke paints so well that I have to wonder which is better, knowing a little about a lot or a lot about a little. I look at it this way: an English student is ignorant of 90 percent of the subjects while understanding with desire, care, and detail 10 percent, while an American - student dabbles in 100 percent of the subjects without giving a damn about any of it. Gone, But Not Forgottep. College is not, as you might expect from this descriptio!\, an ail-work-no-play place. Far from it-the English can drink their American counterparts under any table in the world, hut they do so as a true outlet The other argument is that the English's specialization is nothing more than our Graduate schooling-in fact I think it is pretty clear that the only thing that liberal learning teaches is an indifference and apathy toward school. The American student is constantly bombarded with sundry facts while having no base, no purpose, for understanding any of it. The student docs not know what ·~ .. , ,, The passenger pigeon.. The heath hen The Labrador duck The Carolirn parake(t. The list of extinct animals grows. But ir doesn·t have to. The National Wildlife Fe<lctration is ·working to sa\\'e endangered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation. • 1412 16th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,.. WILDLIFE FEDERATION .· .. . . ~ INTERN A TIONA.L TRIVIA 1. What European country boasts the most cars? 2. What gulf forms part of the coastline of both China and Uietnam? 3. Which of her daughters was with the Princess Grace when she suffered her fata-l car accident? 4. What Rsi8n country was Ho Chi Minh in when he formed the Uiet Minh? 5. What•s the most common number of stars on national flags? 6. What continent is the major source of rubies? 7. What Australian state was giuen the name of the British queen? 8. What could Englishmen start poying bills with in 1681? 9. What country's international obbreuiation is JUGO? 1 0. Which is closer to Tokyo by air--Rnchoroge, S8n Francisco or Seattle? ~~~Joqouy '01 B~A~SOgO_A '6 S){J~l.{J '8 ~!JOl~!A 'L ~!SV \9 ANSWERS ~uo·~ -eUWJ·v ~!tml{da~S SS~OU1Jd • £ trp[UO.L JO JlllQ ~lf.L ·z Amruu~n 1sa.M. ·r - - • t ( s t ..

CONCORiJTENSIS, NfiverniJet 2,.1989 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES lt's'A Soap World After All soap opera called \El Pecado ,de · · Oyuki\ {Oyuki's Sin). It was based on Madame Butterfly and some scenes were filmed in Japan. In addition, a Japanese village was built in the outskirts of Mexico City for this project. Tile lead actress stayed for 6 months. learning how to dance as a Geisha. By A. SIMON , The serial drama, known in the US as the Soap Opera (originally detergent companies sponsored the 15-:minute episodes), highlights gorgeous hunks and sexy hrunettes over.powering the screen. Heroes and villians race . through make,. believe towns. Ttagedies crop up on a daily basis as social issues such as . . drug abuse and abortions are addressed. Don't forget the most important ingredient of all--romance. In .short, the soap opera is an art fean that offers samething for everyone, and is thus, not surprisingly, popular all around the world; ENGLAND Important soap Qpetas are not offered in the. afternoon since students don't .get home \Neighbors • Virtually everyone at the local pub watches it.\ from school until 4:30. Australian melodramas such as \Young Doctors\ and \Sullivan\ 'are; however, televised during this time period to the limited audience. \Dynasty\ and \Dallas\ are big audience grabbers. By contrast, prevailing so.aps ~ctually ~ produced in England are more down to earth. \East Enders\ portrays London life among the lower classes, exploring the counsel houses where the unemployed reside. Yet, \Neighbors a show preseJ1ting the middle class realistically and aired during the peak viewing , hours, is a virtual British phenomena • \Everyone watches it. You enter a local pub and everyone is talking about what happened on the latest episode,\ a York exchange studentrevealcd. MEXICO \In addition to veritable Mexican dramas, soaps from Brazil, V cnczuela and Argentina apn.ear. \Senda.De Gloria\ explores tbe Mexjcan revolution from Potfidio Diaz to Lazaro Cardenas, and is exported to France. \Los Ricos Tarnbien Ileran\ has been translated into English, Chinese, and Italian and gained renown in·· the countries in which these languages are spoken. In Mexico soap operas only last for 1 year (580 hours). They are shown on Channel 2, one of the most important nationwide networks, from 4:00-10:00 p.m. During the 60's the soaps produced had a social message. Topics such as birth control, fighting adult illiteracy, family The Department of Modem Languages and litera!ures will be offering the following new course winler teliD: MLT 018-01 Masterpieces of Chinese Literature Prof. M. Chen MWF 2!25 ~3:30 The purp<lSe of this couise is to provide students with a background of Chinese tradition and thoughts as :seen in its literature. 'This suNey ccurse will introduce major themes and fonlls of Chinese literature, covering readings in classical myths and legends, prose, poetry, painnting, .music, and novels from antiquity to the present. Special emphasis will be placed on the Chinese thoughts and culture in contrast to the Western tradition. We will also examine the chimges in thoughts at the tum of the 20th cimblry in its relation to literary texts. Students will be evaluated on the basis of attendance, quality of participation in class discussion, five teils, and a fmal paper. There is no prerequisite of the Chinese language. Selected readings in English translation from: Confuscius: Analects The B~ok .of Odes Chinese Myths and Legends Li Po ami Tu Fu Oriental Tales The Dream of the Red Chamber The Romance or Three Kingdoms Pllgrlm~ge to the West and more lllodem fiction Convent Glitz Nothing, goes the French proverb, $ucceeds like sue• cess. Or in the case of JEAN- PAUL GAULTIER, like excess. Eliminating the traditional run· way, the designer made mis- chief at the Paris showing of his latest togs. To the sound of liturgical music, his R1odels, many dressed in convent garb, were raised or lowered on a stage. Then carrie even odder , gear, including a transparent plastic-sequined dress wom over a pink bra•and-briefs set. Get thee to a nunnery. planning, preventing f~rmers from being abuse(! by unscruplllous buyers, Cllld drug abus~ were explored. Soaps, nowadays, are more viole11t and spcctaclllar,based on betr~yals, frauds arad intrigues. Five years ago, tltere was a horror melodrama called \El Maleficio,\ which featured a ''Almost all soap opel'as .in Mexico end with a wedding.,, man wht) had made a :pact with the devil--a lot of special effects were used. The most CQmmon tlleme is that a y-oung girl comes from the COILDtry to the city. She works as a maid, and the son of the ilo11se's owner falls in love with her. After fighting against everyb()dy, they get married. Almost all soap operas in Mexiccend with a wedding. Tw() years ago there was a Twice a month, a soap opera magazine, \TV Novclas,\ is published. It discusses current plots, including interviews with actors, Rosa Marie Fernandez reported. LITHUANIA Five years ago, a soap called \Pctraichui Seiniyna\ (The Pettaicio Family) was on the air. ~hown in the evening once a week, it dealt with the life of an average middle family in a realistic fashion. Humor is an extremely important element. Audroos Bruzja, a Soviet exchange student, described one laughable incident: \The husband is baking a pie as a birthday present for his wife. He puts on an apron, finds a cookbook, apparently quite determined. However, this is the first time that he is making Dallas and Bobby are popular in Europe. ingredients in the pot at once, places the pot on the stove, and promptly forgets about it. There is almost a fire in the house, and here comes the man's wife .... \ ITALY \General Hospital: and \Santa Barbara,\ shown on private TV , are the largest daytime audience grabbers. Italian television receives \Anche i ricchi pianono\ from Mexico, and \Dancing Days,\ starring Sonia Braga about the lives ot two sisters who constantly fight, from BraziL \Dynasty\ and \Dallas\ are, of course, followed by everybody, according to Christine Calvi. This Week In The World i Chin:a will revoke martlal law, which now aPPlies; to most of Beijing, but the exact date has not eeen set. A Communist Party official said tile decision was made last ' week at a secret meeting of top 'leaders~ Britain is in p o.litical tunaoil as Prime Minister Thatciier's Finance Minister and tbe Chancellor of the Exch.equer both resigned, leaving the country's monetary policy :in confusion. Prin~e Minister Thatcfler Top East German:s heard ~omplaints for almost five hours on the steps of City Hall East Berlin. \You are finished,\ one man told the East Berlin Communist Party chief. '~Give us free elections. tt 300,000 East Germans marched around Leipzig's old center in what has become a weekly ritual. :Backing the new opposition movement, the crowd chanted \Legalize New Forum.\ ·\The leading role of the party wiiJ remai.n. This is not o.pen to discussion. This dialogue will take pl~ce within these confines. The le.ading role of the ·Communist Party is the only alternative to decaying capitalist society. But the leading role most be a genuine consensus between the party and the broad masses.\ ·Gunter Schabowski, The East Berlin party leader.. News anal:vsis: Tbe Spanish election o n S ·~nday signaled political stability and gave Prime Minister Gonzalez a mandate to continue modernizing the economy in preparation for 1992. Israel bas helped South Africa develop a medium- range missile, said American officials, basing their remarks on intelligence information. Prime Minister Shamir issued a blanket denial. The African National Congress help the largest political rally in its history with the acquiescence of the South African Government that declared it illegal 29 years ago. Nearly 70,000 supporters filled a soccer stadium. Corazon Aquino will not run again in 1992, she said, despite intense pressure by the United States for her to seek re- election. Sbe said she had done her duty in helping to restore democracy to the Philippines.

CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES lt 1 s A Soap World After All soap opera called \El Pecado de · Oyuki\ (Oyuki's Sin). It was based on Madame Butterfly and some scenes were filmed in Japan. In addition, a J apancse village was built in the outskirts of Mexico City for this project. The lead actress stayed for 6 months, learning how to dru~ce as a Geisha. By A. SIMON The serial drama, known in the US as the Soap Opera (originally detergent companies sponsored the 15-minute episodes), highlights gorgci>us hunks and sexy brunettes overpowering the screen. Heroes and villians race through make-believe towns. Tragedies crop up on a daily basis as social issues such as drug abuse and abortions are addressed. Don't forget the most important ingredient of all--romance. In short, the soap opera is an art fonn that offers something for everyone, and is thus, not surprisingly, popular all around the world. ENGLAND Important soap operas are not offered in the afternoon since students don't get home \Neighbors - Virtually everyone at the local pub watches it.\ from school until 4:30. Australian melodramas such as \Young Doctors\ and \Sullivan\ are, however, televised during this time period to the limited audience. \Dynasty\ and \Dallas\ are big audience grabbers. By contrast, prevailing soaps actually produced in England are more down to earth. \East Enders\ portrays London life among the lower classes, exploring the counsel houses where the unemployed reside. Yet, \Neighbors a show presenting the middle class realistically and aired during i.he peak viewing hours, is a virtual British phenomena. \Everyone watches it. You enter a l<Jcal pub and everyone is talking about what happened on the latest episode,\ a York exchange student revealed. MEXICO \In addition to veritable Mexican dramas, soaps from Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina apiJ.ear. \Senda De Gloria\ explores the Mexican revolution from Porfidio Diaz to Lazaro Cardenas, and is exported to France. \Los Ricos Tambien Ileran\ has been translated into English, Chinese, and Italian and gained renown in the countries in which these languages are spoken. In Mexico soap operas only last for 1 year (SSO hours). They are shown on Channel 2, one of the most important nationwide networks, from 4:00-10:00 p.m. During the 60's the soaps produced had a social message. Topics such as birth control, fighting adult illiteracy, family The Department of Modem Languages and literatures will be <>ffering the following new course winter term: MLT 018-01 Mastetpieces of Chinese Literature Prof. M. Chen MWF2:25 -3:30 The purpose of this course is t<> provide students with a background of Chinese tradition and thoughts as seen in its literature. This survey course will introduce major themes lllld forms of Cl:tinese literature, covering readings in classical myths and legends, prose, poetry, painnting, music. and novels f'rom antiquity to the present. Special emphasis will be placed on the Chinese thoughts lllld culture in contrast to the Western tradition. We will also examine the changes in thoughts at the turn of the 20th century in its relation to literaty texts. Students will be evaluated on the basis of attendance, quality of participation in class discussion, five tests, and a fmal paper. There is no prerequisite of the Chinese language. Selected readings in English translation from: C'onfuscius: Analecl'i Tile Book of Odes Chinese Myths and Legends Li Po and Tu Fu Oriental Tales The Dream of the Red Cbambe.- The Romance or Three Kingdoms Pilgrimage to the West and more modem fiction Convent Glitz Nothing, goes the French prover!), succeeds like suc- cess. Or in the case of JEAN· PAUL GAULTIER, like excess. Eliminating the traditional run· way, the designer made mis· chief at the Paris showing of his latest togs. To the sound of liturgical music, his models, many dressed in convent garb, were raised or lowered on a stage. Then came even odder gear, including a transparent plastic-sequined dress wom over a .pink bra-and-briefs set. Get thee to a nunnery. planning, preventing farmers from being abused by unscrupulous buyers, and drug abuse were explored. Soaps, nowadays, are more violent and spectacular, based on betrayals, frauds and intrigues. Five years ago, there was a horror melodrama called \EI Maleficio,\ which featured a \Almost all soap operas in Mexico end with a wedding.\ man who had made a pact with the devil--a Jot of special effects were used. The m<Jst common theme is that a young girl comes from the country to the city. She works as a maid, and the son of the house's owner falls in love with her. After fighting against everybody, they get married. Almost all soap operas in Mexico end with a wedding. Two years ago there was a Twice a month, a soap opera magazine, \TV Novelas,\ is published. It discusses current plots, including interviews with actors, Rosa Marie Fernandez reported. LITHUANIA Five years ago, a soap called \Pctraichui Sein iyna\ (The Petraicio Family) was on the air. Shown in the evening once a week, it dealt with the life of an average middle family in a realistic fashion. Humor is an extremely important element. Audroos Bruzja, a Soviet exchange student, describc.d one laughable incident: \The llusband is baking a pie as a birthday pFescnt for his wife. He puts on an apron, finds a cookbook, apparently quite dctennined. However, this is the first time that he is making Dallas and Bobby are popular in Europe. ingredients in the pot at once, places the pot on the stove, and promptly forgets about it. There is almost a fire in the house, and here comes the man's wife .... \ iTALY \Genera] Hospital: and \Santa Barbara,\ shown on private TV , arc the largest daytime audience grabbers. Italian television receives \Anchc i ricchi pianono\ from Mexico, and \Dancing Days,\ starring Sonia Braga about the lives ot two sisters who constantly fight, from Brazil. \Dynasty\ and \Dallas\ are, of course, followed by everybody, according to Christine Calvi. This Week In The World , China will revoke martial law, which now applies to most of Beijing, but the exact date has not been set. A Communist Party official said the decision was made last · week at a secret meeting of top ·leaders. Britain is in political turmoil as Prime Minister Thatcher's Finance Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer both resigned, leaving the country's monetary policy in confusion. Prime Minister Thatcher Top East Germans heard complaints for almost five llours on the steps of City Hall East Berlin. \You are finished,\ one man told the East Berlin Communist Party chief. \Give liS free elections.\ 300,000 East Germans marched around Leipzig's old center in what has become a weekly ritual. Backing the new opposition movement, the crowd chanted \Legalize New Forum.\ \The leading role of the party will remain. This is not open to discussion. This dialogue will take place within these confines. The leading role of the Communist Party is the only alternative to decaying capitalist society. But the leading role must be a genuine consensus between the party and the broad masses.\ -Gunter Schabowski, The East Berlin party leader. News analysis: The Spanish election o n S1mday signaled political stability and gave Prime Minister Gonzalez a mandate to con tinuc modernizing the economy in preparation for 1992. Isn1el has helped South Afrka develop a medium- range tnissile, said American officials, basing their remarks on in tdligence information. Prime Minister Shamir issued a blanket denial. The African National Congress help the largest political rally in its history with the acquiescence of the South AFrican Government that declared it illegal 29 years ago. Nearly 70,000 supporters filled a soccer s1adium. Corazon Aquino will not ru11 again in 1992, she said, despite intense pressure by the United States for her to seck re- electi<Jn. She said she had done her duty in helping to restore democracy to the Philippines. was the funniest/ strangest thing th.at · ever happened to ·you W . ·h··.·. . . t . r·:·.····a·.··.· · ... · ' : .~ : . ,. -. ' . •. .. ; ~ abroad? 'I Submit responses to Box #2127

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 INTERNATIONAL 'FEATURES Guy Fawkes Day Expert ·On Austro-G,er·man .Literatu,re D:ellvers .Lecture Gunpowder, Treason and Plot International Pen-Club Member Focuses on Virulent Mood By CLAIRE FOSTER In England, on tbe 5th of November, we celebratehonfrre night. It is an old tradition dating back to the days of James I. When Guy Fawkes, a Catholic, plotted to blow up the houses of parliament, his plot failed through a betrayal. As a result of his treason, he was drawn and quartered. His b()ase remains as a memorial in Stonegate, York. :Each year, children make a \Guy Fawkes\ and collect rn()ney to buy fireworks. The enning of November 5th co11sists of a big bonfire crganized by towns and 'Villages for all tlleir residents, a fire works display, and food such as toffee apples, cinder toffee, cups of hot soup, and hot dogs-· all cooked around ! the bonfire on which tbe \Guy\ is ceremoniously burned. It usually rains; but, we have a good laugh anyway. \Remember remember the 5th of November. Gunpowdet:, treason and plot,\ By RENATE THIESMAN marked the era of W\VI and - shortly afterward. Prof. A lecture· on ~xpressionist Wimmer pointed out (hat literature and 'its background ;Expressionism was a reaction was delivered Monctay by bo~h to the materialistic Viennese professor Dr. Paul approach ofNaturalism as well Wimmer. Dr.' Wimmer is a as to the mere depiction of meml:)er of the International outer impressions that became . Pen-Club and his versatile knoWli as Impressianism. As involvement in the Viennese opposed ·to that, .the ecstati_c literary scene as critic, writer, expression of the ego, the · and scholar distinquishes b:im excl\lssive often disturbiqgly as an expert on :the modernist neurotic probing of the self, movements. in Austro--.Gerrnan and the reckless expo!;UJe of the literature. very substance of tile artist's. He drew heavily on that mind bec&me tbe focus of intellectual and spiritual mood · Expressionist art (wllicb in its virulent on the European search for appropriate stylistic . _continent {rom about .1910 to devices, subsequently often , 1925, ·-in the course of which resortedfu grotesque:ffistortions new modes of expression were and hyperbolic mannerisms • . ,(ie.veloped :in .. Qtder to The prevailing an*icties and communicate the general aspirations of this era, with its feeling of cultural crisis ·that · opposition to the mechani~tic r---------------------- .................... ----------~----------..... age, the backdrops()[ modem bourgeois Civilization, ·and the traditional religious values, and the Expressionists'. emphasis ''I dotit want ·(:llotof hype. I just want something I can count on.~., Some long distance · companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable,. high-quality service. That's just what you'll get whert you choose AT&T Long Distance Service; at a cost that's a lot less than you think. You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice- AT&T. If youtl like to know more ahout our products or services, like International Calling and the Af&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. ATaaT The right choice ... . on the prophecy of spiritual renewal, were illustrated --by Professor Wimmer by· a number of quotations. by German and Austrian authors of the periods. It is a pity, however, that as a result of Professor Wimmer's hig;hly complex:.. manner of phrasing, most of the American students found it bard to f()llow this; lecture, which was: held in German; his sophisticated analysis w~s mainly cherished by the German_ teachers. · The IDOL is having a Pre-Spring I . ' ssue • Due out this . t ' WIDer. So to start the editing rolling send submissions to Box: 0123 Now! Deadline - Nov. 6th - WWF SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION . \ I

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, November 2, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Guy Fawkes Day E.xpert on Austro-Germ,an Literature O:envers le,c1'ure Gunpowder, Treason and Plot International Pen-Club Member Focuses on Virulent Mood By CLAIRE FOSTER In England, on the 5th of November, we cclebral.e bonflre night. It is an old tradition dating back to the days of James I. When Guy Fawkes, a Catholic, plotted to blow up the houses of padiament, his plot failed through a betrayal. As a result .of his treason, he fire works display, and food By RENATE THIESMAN was drawn and quartered. His stUch .as toffee apples, cinder house remains as a memorial toffee, cups of hot soup, and A lecture on Expressi<mist in Stonegate, York. h.ot dogs-all cooked around literature and its backgroulld Each year, children make a tlhe bonfire on which the \Guy\ was delivered Monday b-y \Guy Fawkes\ and collect is ceremoniously burned. It Viennese professor Dr. ?aut money to buy frreworks. The tumally rains; but, we have a Wimmer. Dr. Wimmer is a evening of November 5th g;ood laugh anyway. member of the International consists of a big bonfire \Remember remember the Pen-Club and his versatil~ organized by towns and 5th of November. Gunpowder, involvement in the Viennes~ villages for all their residents, a treason and plot.\ literary scene as critic, writer, -----!!!!'~\!!!'-~-----· · and scholar distinquishes him as an expert on the modernist movements in Austro-Gerrnan literature. Monday 12:45 .. 1;45 French, Russian, Hebrew :'\' !'~;-~ ~ ~.~ ... ~'il? -~~_>:;/~;~-~-( i Wootl'es~ay: -12:45 - 1l45 . ·. Germ~•\ Ja,panese & 1 IM,~l~$~ \ ' ' \ Thursel~y.li:.4s---t2:4s He drew heavily on th:at intellectual and spiritual m<lod. virulent on the Europeait continent from about 1910 t~ 1925, in the course of VJhicll new modes of expression wel'e developed in order t() communicate the gener:a1l feeling of cultural crisis th11t - : ~: ~~ {:~/; .::~ ?:: Tuesday 11:45 ~· f2:45 Chinese · :llta~ian~- ·· · ' • ,· • ,.• • ', •• • ~~~~~~~r' ...... , .• , .. , ..... ~~~~~~~ ''I don't want a lot of hypee I just want something I can count on.~' Some long distance companies promise you the moon. hut what vou reall~ wam i:-. dcpen~Lthle. high-quality sen·ice. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than vou think. You can expect low long distance rates, 2+hour operator assistance. clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtuallv all of vour calls will go thro.ugh the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T ~brldwide Intelligent Network_ \\'hen it's time to choose. forget the gimmicks and makt· the intelligent chnice AT&T Ihnulllikc to kn()w more ai11 Jut 1 1ur pn Klucts < )f sen ice~. likL· I nternati< mal C;!lling and 1 he :\l&T CmL callu~ :lt J KOO 2.22·0~()1 l ATs.T The right choice. marked the era of W\VI and shortly afterward. Prof. Wimmer pointed e>ut :that Expressionism w~s a Feaction both to the mate;:rialistic approach of Naturalism, as well as to the mere depiction of outer impressi(:Jns that became known as lmpressiolliism. As opposecl to that, tile ecstatic expression of the ego, the excessive often dist11rbingly neurotic pmbing ef the self, and the reckless ex.posure of the very substance of thl:.} artist's mind became the focus of Expressionist art (which in its search for appropriate. .stylistic devices, subsequently often resorted to grotesque· distortions and hyperbolic mannerisms. The prevailing an)d.cties and aspirations of this era, with its opposition to the meccllanistic age, the backdrops of rnodern bourgeois civili2ation, and the traditional re1igio11s v~ues, and the Expressionists' emphasis on the prophecy of spiritual renewal, were iUuscrated by Professor Wimmer by a number of quotations by Germall and Austria11 authors of the periods. It is :a pity, however. that as a ~esult of Professor Wimmer':; highly comple:x.. manner of phrasing, most of the Americall students found it hard to fo!Jow this lecture, which was held in German; his sophisticated analysis was mainly ch.erished by the German teach.ers. The IDOL is having a Pre-Spring Issue ! Due out this winte·r! So to start 111e editing rolling :send submissions to Box:0123 Now! Deadfine - Nov. 6th .. WWF SAVE TtiE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE fEDERA.TIOIN I j. I I I'

I ,, CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 N'OTICE WINTER TERM REGISTRATION Winter Term Registration wiU be held in OLD CHAPEL, FIRST FLOOR · not at the Field House. Registration is scheduled for We<:fnesday and Thursday_, January 3 & 4, 1990. How're yoU going to do it? Reelingfrom revisions! ~' \' - -~ \'1L-- ~, t- ''t' . Anglingjor A~! -=---~.,.. ~' Close a deal on an IBM PS/2 before the semester closes in on you. Before you find yourself in deep water this semester, get an IBM Personal System/2,® Choose from five different packages of hard- ware and software-all at special low student prices. Each system comes with easy-to-use software loaded ami ready to go! Whats more, when you buy your PS/2,® you can get PRODIGY,® the shopping, information and enter- tainment computer service, at less than half the retail -\\'- \\\'=:l:o>.~ price. And for a limited time, you can get special savings on your choice of three IBM Proprinter'~ models~ Don't miss the boat. Come in today. Promotion extended through tlte end of the year! For more information please contact: Mark Welcome (518) 377.;7353 or visit the college bookstore. ~·=..::. .... « ~ __ _...._ -- --~ - ........ --- ... -.---- ----- -~-·- •This ol!l!f is lifl\lled to qualified students, faculty and stall who order an IBI.tPS/2 Model 6525·001. 8530·E21, 6550·031. 8555-061 Of SS70·E6l on Of llei«a Ot,tcber 31, 1989. Orders are subjec! to availability. IBM may withdraw til& pronlOiiorl at any lime without written nQiice. IBM, F'efSOnll ~12 and PS/2 11t rcgisleredtrrodemal'ks. !lfld Pioprinter is a tracleln~ Ill lnlernatlooel Busiriess Machi!lH CO!pola!ioii.I'ROOIGY II•II'J!Ii$lered trldemalkotP!adlgy.SeMc~~S(;omparrf.aparil'llfShipofl!MIIIldSnrs. ®IBMCoql.l91!9 Union Colleg,e Students for Choice will be sending a deleg,ation to the November 12 Page 11 PRO--CHOICE' MARC!H. Bus seats are $20. ·Anyone & Everyone is welcome. The Bus is Hired Through New York State NARAL Look for the table in the College Center Indoor Track and Field h,as begun The last-signup day is Friday, Nov. 10 Contact Coach Dave Herrington, X6547, 314 Alumni Gym UNION TRACK

'~ \ '· · .. I ,, ·I \ I i I' I I ,. ' l· CONCORDJENSIS, November 2, l!J89 Page 11 N'OTICE WlNTE!R TERM REGISTRATION Winter Term Registration wi-ll be he'ld in OLD CHAPEL, FIRST FLOOR not at the Field House. Registration is scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday, January 3 & 4, 1990. How're you going to do it? Reelingfrom revisiolt3! Anglingfor As! ··~ .J5ngulfed in English! ~~- J;)PS/2 it! Close a deal on an IBM PS/2 before the semester closes in on you. Before you find yourself in deep water this semester, get an IBM Personal System/2.® Choose from five different packages of hard- ware and software-all at special low student prices. Each system comes with easy-to-use software loaded and ready to go! What's more, when you buy your PS/2,® you can ~·-··· get PRODIGY,® d1e shopping, information ami enter- ~ .. t.f,f · tainment computer service, at less than ltalf the retail .,. ·---~ price. And for a limited time, you can get special -:~-..,..w-\l:o.l''\'~·· ·===~!!~ savings on your choice of three IBM Proprinter'\ models~ Don't miss the boat. Come in today. Promotion extended througlt the end of the year! For more information please contact: Mark Welcome (518) 377-7SS3 or visit the college bookstore. ==.-:: ::« - - ...... _.__. --- -- __ ... P:tt ~- --- ___ _, ___ _ __..._.- 'This offer IS limited to qualirled students. faculty and stall who order an IBM PS/2 Model 8525001, B530·E21. 8550-031.8555061 or 8570·E61 on or befofe Oc,tober 31, 1989. Orders ar<~ subjecllo avaiiabihly. IBM may withdraw the promohoo at any time without written nQiice. 13M, Personal System/2 and PS/2 are reg-stared trademarks. and Propnnlell!o a.lrademartl. cl !rile~ national Buslfltlss Machines COfJJOiaiiO<I PROOIGY Is a regostered traOOnlark ol Prndlgy Services C«lmpMly, a pattnetship of IBM and Sears. @18M Coop. 1989 Union College Students for Choice will be sending a delegation to the November 12 PRO-CHOICE MARCH. Bus seats are $20. Anyone & Everyone is welcome. The Bus is Hired Through New York State NARAL Look for the table in the College Center Indoor Track and Field has begun The last-signup day is Friday, Nov. 10 Con tact Coach Dave Herrington, X6547, 314 Alumni Gym UNION TRACK . $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS MONEY l: ~ ::::1v ACATION un.s ~· ~~7- ,. . UNITED PARCEL SERVICE EMPLOYEMENT FuU.Time Days Part Time 4:30 A.M.-8:30 A.M. 11:00 P.M ... 3:00 A.M. Monday thru Friday Till Christmas Help with Christmas Bills Applications Available CDC and set op au ap;p~latm\lltt for. itt:tt.rrviews~

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November Z, 1989 LETTERS . 1S>\ Founded at Union College 1877 ....,.,.. __ AIDS· Hits Union Criticism of Concordiensis Criticism · To the Editor: .[n the October 26, 1989 Once again Union College was reminded of the presence of the AIDS virus in our community. It seems that it takes such a program as AIDS Awareness Week to bring this issue into our ·issue of the Concordi,eR$is, the college populace learned that, \Living-LearQ.ing Residents Critical of Program.·· Within this article were hidden . consciousness. · many inconsistencies and .half- truths brought about \)y a group of people who seem. beot on digging up some dirt on this institution's Rather than confront serious is sues and the · Administration. As a member h . h · h of the program in question, I stress w · 1c accompanies t · em., most Union . feel it is my duty to address students choose to disregard that which the rest these problems. of society deals with daily. Whether this is due First, there were some correct points to the article. I, to a general apathy or a sense of hopelessness, being a Hickok resident, feel the facts remain that in the past our campus has • that I have made many close had little involvement in natioaal concerns. \friendships with the other :members .of the program .. This Usually it takes one's own life to be affected in -u~ofarthegrcatestadvantage order for reaction to be sparked. to the Hickolc: experience~ It.is als.o true that tile Many students believe that AIDS does not Administration did understate directly affect their lives. They do not worry- some of the disadvantages of Hickok life in their about prevention nor do they worry about the promotional literature {su.ch as AIDS virus' toll on the future. However, if the ever-fam()us. line that someone's best friend .or lover had AIDS. then Hickok is \slightly more , distant\ from the rest of the' perhaps the College's attitude would change. campus). Hcwever, I already knew how distant the house The topic of Gay Liberation was brought to was from West College, and I can1pus attention only due to homosexuals taking still chose to take residence at Hickok. Many of the other a stake in a very personal fight. Action should residents feel this way as well. not depend on one's own selfish interest, instead The discrepancies in the a selfle_s_ s interest should be the motivating· article center around. the Student Forum visit to factor. To wait until AIDS has upset our own lives will be too late. Through preventive measures we can take contr.ol. Through education and a strong will we can make a difference. Thus prevention is not the only issue regarding AIDS that we must face. Soon enough we will be entering the real world. A world in which we will be responsible for today's youth and tomorrow's technology. A world in which our knowledge and our will can make a difference. We need to be conscientious members of the Union community, if we do not act responsibly now we may not have the opportunity to act responsibly later. AIDS Awareness Week ends today, do not let your awareness of AIDS end with it. Occasionally Concordiensis is not accurate in its reporting. Our reporters do try to attain most precisely any and all facts and information. The case of neglttptful reporting has, come to our attention this week in one · article from the issue of October 26, 1989. · We sincerely apologize for the misrepresentations printed last week, and we do in no way wish to be absolved of this error. It is the editors• responsibility to finalize the composition of the paper. It is our duty to be sure that the school reads what we believe, and is to the best of our knowledge, the truth. It is, however, a difficult task to under take. We, unfortunately, do not have fact checkers on hand to validate the statistics or contents of an article. This is a poor excuse, and perhaps an indication that we should create the position of fact checker on the staff of Concordiensis. We thank .those of you who have alerted us to this and any. other mistakes we have made in the past. Your reminders help us. From this mistake we learn. In the future the reporter and the editors will know to be more careful in their efforts to bring you the news and issues. Hickok. I was under the impression that the pm-pose of the visit was to let Hickok residents get an idea of the working of the Union student government. What we learned was that we had a 'Visit from an organization that wasn't interested in setting up a. learning program itself, but intent upon doing SC)I.lle. muck- raking about the Administration. We were invited to come (town to the meeting and were then interrogated fof a~.:ut fifteen minutes about how badJy the . · Admiitistration .was running. the program. Then, when the actual Student Fomn1 was about to begin. we were asked, in so .many words, to kindly leave so they could geton with their meeting. Now~ .it was true that we complained about the lack of learning p.to.grams. being brought to Hickok. But since the Forum meeting was primarily intended· to be one of these programs, it seems hypocritical that th.is body would basically deprive Hickok of this experience. ' Another problem. with the at:ticle was that the Forum seemed to value the opinions of the four upperclassmen living aJ; Hickok -o-ver the 41 (not 38) freshmen that actually compose the program. Since one sophomore said that our friendships were no closer than a floor at anotller . dorm., . obviously this sho11ld be. taken 8$ the uuth. This sophomore isn't even in the progriltn and 1 personally haven~t seen him anywhere ill Hiclcok besides the lounge. t feel that. the ,people who really kilow (the Hickok program participant'~) should be the judges of the frioendships we have~ It seems like the: students of the college would like the Hickok :program to fail. The . Student Forum w()U:ld like to use Hickok as ammunition in their attempt to u11dermine the AdmJnistration. 'tbe other freshmen seem tc feel that we should feel bad Clbout being \stuck\ in Hicko)!(. However, . they seem to forget that itt our residence .sign-up packet was an APPLICATlON fGr admission into Hickok (wlUcl!. means that all of us made :a conscious choice to join Hickok) .. To make a final cor:rection, the general feeling of the Hickok residents is one of happiness at .the program. We do have our gripes about the Jlrogram, but they aren't numertJus enough to tarnish our view of the program significantly. Personally, knowing what I do now. I would choose Hickok as my residential opillon again. Sincerely~ :iteven Kinne HICKOK HOUSE

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 .,,====~========~========~~===== LETTERS Founded at Union CoUege 1877 --- Criticism of Concordiensis Criticism AIDS Hits Union To the Editor: Hickok. I was under the impression that the purpose of the visit was to let Hickok residents get an idea of the working of the Union student government. What we learned was that we bad a visit from an organization that wasn't interested in setting up a learning pr-ogram itself, but intent upon doing some muck~ raking about the Administration. We were invited to come down to tbe meeting and were then interrogated for about fifteen minutes about how badly the Administration was running the program. Then,. when the actual Student Forum was about to begin, we were asked, in so many words, to kindly leave so they could get on with their meeting. Now, it was true that we complained about the lack of learning programs being brought to Hickok. But since the Forum meeting was primarily intended to be one of these programs, it seems hypocritical that this body would basically deprive Hickok of this experience. a floor at an6 ther dorm, obviously this should be taken as the truth. This sophomore isn't even in the program and I personally have11't seen him anywhere in Hickok besides the lounge. I feel that the people who really know (the Hickok program participants) should be the judges of the friendships we have . Once again Union College was reminded of the presence of the AIDS virus in our community. It seems that it takes such a program as AIDS Awareness Week to bring this issue into our . consciOusness. Rather than confront serious issues and the stress which accompanies them, most Union students choose to disregard that which the rest of society deals with daily. Whether this is due to a general apathy or a sense of hopelessness, the facts remain that in the past our campus has had little involvement in national concerns. Usually it takes one's own life to be affected in order for reaction to be sparked. Many students believe that AIDS does not directly affect their lives. They do not worry about prevention nor do they worry about the AIDS virus' toll on the future. However, if someone's best friend or lover had AIDS, then perhaps the College's attitude would change. The topic of Gay Liberation was brought to can1pus attention only due to homosexuals taking a stake in a very personal fight. Action should not depend on one's own selfish interest, instead a selfless interest should be the motivating factor. To wait until AIDS has upset our own lives will be too late. Through preventive measures we can take contr.ol. Through education and a strong will we can make a difference. Thus prevention is not the only is&ue regarding AIDS that we must face. Soon enough we will be entering the real world. A world in which we will be responsible for today's youth and tomorrow's technology. A world in which our know ledge and our will can make a difference. We need to be conscientious members of the Union community, if we do not act responsibly now we may not have the opportunity to act responsibly later. AIDS Awareness Week ends today, do not let your awareness of AIDS end with it. • Occasionally Concordiensis is not accurate in its reporting. Our reporters do try to attain most precisely any and all facts and information. The case of neglectful reporting has, come to our attention this week in one article from the issue of October 26, 1989. We sincerely apologize for the misrepresentations printed last week, and we do in no way wish to be absolved of this error. It is the editors' responsibility to finalize the composition of the paper. It is our duty to be sure that the school reads what we believe, and is to the best of our knowledge, the truth. It is, however, a difficult task to under take. We, unfortunately, do not have fact checkers on hand to validate the statistics or contents of an article. This is a poor excuse, and perhaps an indication that we should create the position of fact checker on the stdff of Concordiensis. We thank those of you who have alerted us to this and any other mistakes we have made in the past. Your reminders help us. From this mistake we learn. In the future the reporter and the editors will know to be more careful in their efforts to bring you the news and issues. In the October 26, 1989 issue of the Concordiensis, the college populace learned that, \Livia g-Leaming Residents Critical of Program.\ Within !his article were hidden many inconsistencies and half- truths brought a,bout by a group of people who seem bent on digging up some dirt on this institution's Administration. As a member of the program in question, I feel it is my duty to address these problems. First, there were some correct points to the article. 1~ being a Hickok resident, feel that I have made many close friendships with the other members of the program. This is so far the greatest advantage to the Hickok experience. It is also true that the Administration did understate some of the disadvantages of Hickok life in their promotional literature (such as the ever-famous line that Hickok is \slightly more distant\ from tile rest of the campus). However, I already knew how distant the house was from West College, and I still chose to take residence at Hickok. Many of the other residents feel this way as well. The discrepancies in the article center around the Student Forum visit to COt\~~'\\V\'•U~1 OFFICE BY _,. .... ,. P.M~ ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS ~l, ... U AND Another problem with the article was that the Forum seemed to value the opinions of the four upperclassmen living aJ. Hickok over the 41 (not 38) freshmen that actually compose the program. Since one sophomore said that our friendships were no closer than It seems like tile students of the college w<mld like *he Hickok program to fail. The . Student Forum would like to use Hickok as ammunition in their attempt to 11ndermine the Administration. The other freshmen seem to feel that we should feel bad about being \stuck\ in Hickok. However, they seem to forget that in our residence sign-up packet was an APPLICATION for admission into Hickok (which means that all of us made a conscious choice to join Hickok). To make a final correction, the general feeling of the Hickok residents is one (>[happiness at .the program. We do have our gripes about the program, but they aren't numerous enough to tarnish our view of the program significantly. Personally, knowing what I do now, I would choose Hickok as my residential option again. Sincerely, Steven Kinne HICKOK HOUSE ADVERTtStNG·. S'tAil'F: l..t:lttrel .Alessio. Lauten Bycoff, Susan Sklar, Rachel Tlf.ck. CONCORDIENSIS is published eight thursdays a term by the stu<lent body ofUrlion College,.Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388. Sidney, New York 13838 (6()7) 563~8339. Sub$cription rate: $3{) per year. delivered anywhere in the United States. Mail . . .· · to ConcorcUensis office.

, t· CONCORDIENSIS, N'tlvember 2, 1989 Page. 13 LETTERS Gen Ed _Puts College In Compromising Po.sition To the Editors: While Professot'Warde and the other General Education proponents might feel that I'm merely throwing a wrench in the wheels Eparlicularly since Gen Ed has already been installed), I feel compelled to write and offer something for them .and the rest of the Union community to ponder about while Gen Ed undergoes its first year of implementation. Maybe I feel COD) pelted because ·it still astounds me a~ to how. .during the four years I attended Union, the program was formulated and .approved wlth little or no recognition by bQth. the student body and general faculty-- little or no attention to a program that will change Union and the entire educational process .. 1 truly believe that Gen · Ed is being fed to a college that has little understanding wllat it is meant to do and no undetstanding of its implications. General Education has been sold to· Union under the pretense that it will enhance the quality of its students' education. Hand in hand with this. notion, the College believe.s that such improvements will increase Union's appeal' to students and parents in the competitive college market. (Better 'education means better marketability, no?) While, ultimately, I believe Professor Warde's intentions are aimed at promoting a healthier academic experie.nce, l stress agaiu that General Eilu(ation is fundamentally cletriQlen • tal to Union in· ·tile long· rtlD. Professor Wat'de ~d the Gen Ed Committee luve... on past (X;casion, ·referred to ·Jhe other notable cc:>lleges :stating that Union's Gen Ed IJrogram is in ·keeping with wllat 'the rest' are doing. Th¢y have also cited various. reports .a~([ studies and education ex:pens .. like William Bennett, to add further legitimacy to the Gen Ed program. My a11swer to this is th~at the tre11ds and tile expertS ate wrong. NQw, this allegation is a str(;)ng one. but I'm pFepared. to offer my rationale. T·be inherent. problem w'ith Gener.al Education .. and similar pTogra·ms abroad is that it assumes an entirely mew responsi· bility: for colleges-a res- ponsibiUty :tllat .$hould be placed (an(l bas tradi· tiooally been .placed) on the high scllool system. ObviousLy, once tile burden is openly and willingly assumed by the college system, high schools no lomgei carry the weight . Gen Ed is being installed to provide Union sttidents with a 'semi' •uniform curriculum in sucb 'essentials 1 as history, rnatb, languages, sciences, etc. It is geared at literally ':picking up the· slack' from· the hiJ,Jil school system. Such a. conclusion can be gathered from as early as the committee's formulative reports to as recently as Jay Freeland's front page article in the October 12 · issue of Coneordiensis (\National Academic Survey Yields Ftightenin,g Results\). The article refers to a national survey ·Of college seniors. The · report was \frightening\ particularly since portions of the test we:re designed for 17- yeat-olds (high school.seniors). The recommendations from the National Endowment was to revise cotlege curricula-- exactly what Union has done with Gen Ed, as Professor Warde stated in the article, with one exc.eption concerning cboice in history. The problem with the Endowment's recommendation is that it overlooks the obvious, that is, the high school system. Alth9ugh such a program-might not seem too unreasonable in an era where the .national high school system is faltering~ I think a signal like the one Union (along with the majority of colleges) is sending out is harmful to the idea of higher education. First, it will further subtract from limited college t•me devoted to 'higher' education, such as in-depth study in a particular field or advanced 'coiJege~Ievel' study of customary disciplines. The Liberal Learning program, which was established well before I attended Union, was meant to insure breadth in the college experience. However, Gen Ed was drafted with different intentions. It is exactly because of these ,intentions that Gen Ed firmly entrenches Union with other colleges on a level one lower than higher education was meant to be. Second, it eventually will force more students to attend coHeRe if they desire to reach the same level of education that high school graduates Feceived on·e. Increased college matriculaton might not be that 'bad,' but it will be for those who choose not to go on to college, whether for pcr$0nal or financial reasons. Under extreme circumstances, a large proportion of the American public will interact in society under-educated. Further encouragement, indirectly coming from colleges, will change the educational process as we know it. Already signs of a weakening high school system and a compromising college system are evident. Increased demand for advanced degrees in the job market for positions whe~ ten years ago none was required is a possible symptom. In conclusion, without being guilty of simply pointing a finger at Professor Warde, General Education and Union College, I want to stress that Union hardly deserves all the blame. This would be a gross ovcr-generaHzation of what has ·been said in this open letter. However, the College is following a 'trend' that it shouldn't be. Moreover, it doesn't have to. Union has an opportunity to take a s·eparate path-- an initiative that attacks the problem instead .of merely 'bandaiding' it. One key is in the adrnissio.ns office. . Demanding higher standards of its applicants will help, perhaps taking the fe;llm of entrance exams testing competency in the exact areas that Gen Ed stresses. This, alone, won't help though. Union needs to vocalize such a policy within the academic community in order for it to work. It needs to take a stand and point out the skewed way in which colleges have recently attempted to solve the education 'problem.' Someone in the academic community needs to say that it won't stand for the dete.ri oration of higher education, its traditions and its ideals. Moreover, Union, the individual, the community and the entire nation need to address high school education in this country and seek active means by which to rehabilitate it. Sincerely, Christine Hong '89 Hickok Resident. Blasts Student Forum & Concordiensis' Shoddy Treatment To the Editor: A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, there was such a · thing as good journalism. It held such ideas as truth, ·integrity, facts, and fair. unbiased writing in highest regard Apparently, The Concor- diensis doesn't feel this way. On October 26, 1989, The Concordiensis published a lead story concerning the Hickok House program. It was entitled \Living-Learning Residents Critical of Program. II There are 40-50 residents in Hickok House. Many of them were angry. More important, I was angry. No, no-- make that enraged. In high school, I was involved in the newpaper as copy editor and writer. With that in mind, the so-called \article\ mentioned above was one of the worst examples of journalism I had ever seen in my entire lifetime. I have seen junior high and elementary school arlicles that were written better than this. Can you say facts, boys and girls? Can you say integrity? Can you say u~biased writing? Good-1 thought you couldn't. Let's start at the beginning. shall we? To begin with, the Student Forum meeting was held on ·:.,:. Monday, not ruesday. Who- ever did the \rep<)rting\ for this wonderful little gem of an article had some.sort of trouble · figuring out tbat si,ly little thing called time. You know, that concept that governs the actions and live~ of the entire race'! Well, that's not too bad. A moot point, in fact. Just a taste of things oo come. Incidentally, the :Purpose of the student forum ~s visit was origi~ally to show Hickok residents lio-w student government WDJked. However, immediately after the discussion on Hickok, we were asked to leave sin<:e ,;the real meeting was begint~ing.\ Adjeclives are a wonderful thing. Especially tbose dealing . with quantity.. It's strange really·- they identify how many people feel a certain way or do a certain thing. All. Some. Mos:t. You know-- unneeded wo1ds. like that. But I digress. Point # 1: Did aU the students not klio'W about the ten minute walk to campus? Do they :all feel totally isolated? Do aU the students not rccomme.lld the living arrangement'? Do they all feel bitter? If I .feel bitter about anything, it's the shoddy treatment my ctortn has been given by botll the Student Forum and T h e Concordiemsis. I am sick and tired of the constant negative image being given to the Hickok program. Believe it or not, not everyone, if anyone, loathes and detests Hickok House. There are even some people who would enter the Hickok pro,gram a_gain if they had a second chance. They would even recommend it to other students. Incredible, ain't it? Point # 2: According to the article, the program was \supposed to provide a cohesive academic environment for students... special talks with professors ... and teaching assistants.\ The article then goes on to state that \the school has not come through on these promises. There have been no visits by professors and there is only one teaching assistant living there.\ Apparently, someone casually forgot to listen to those few positive comments that were stated at the forum. Incredible as it may seem, one can actually work in one's room. People help each otncr in their respective classes. There•s actually some form of discussion outside of class. Incredible, is itnol\ Someone also did not get his facts straight. There have, in fact, been two visiting professors, and a meeting with deans, professors and students. Although there have definitely not been many special academic or social events as promised by the brochure, one should realize that Hickok House is a completely new program with· its own set of problems. This idea can also be attributed . to the Hickok problem with teaching assistants-- the reason there are none is because there are none who are familiar with the new Gen Ed program. Apparently someone forgot about research and clarity. Point #3: It's funny how words can be twisted or selectively used. Obviously, the residents in Hickok House are close-knit because they feel isolated-- not because they live in a more relaxed, less crowded abnosphere where they can get to know each other more. No, that's ridiculous. Now, get ready for an interesting line: \the one sophomore I iving there [Hickok] said that the group is no closer than a normal floor in a dorm.\ Besides the fact that there arc four upperclassmen living in Hickok, what docs this sophomore know? All of the upperclassmen live' in the far corner of the basement level. What does one sophomore know about the people living on the first and second floor of Hickok, much less the rest of the people on the floor? Wouldn't it make more sense to ask the freshmen on the other two floors what they felt? Give me a break! Once again, the only thing I feel bitter about is the biasC'd, one sided, single minded treatment given to us by both this newspaper and the forum. I will admit that not many people stood up for the program at the forum. and chose to stay silent inst~ad. They were so ·shocked at the prevalent attitude at the forum that they were unable to speak. I was one of them. Now I'm making up for it. Before closing, I would like to make one final point-- the article in question, if it belongs anywhere at all. docs not belong anywhere on the front page of a newspaper or in its feature section. If it has to be placed somewhere, it should be put in the Editorial section-· however, it is written so badly and so sloppily that I would hesitate putting it even there. I believe that The Conrord- iensis should take a sharp look at itself-because, with its past and present biased attacks, it will quickly become a mockery of everything tllat is held important to writing and journalistic integrity. Adam Fischer HICKOK HOUSE

CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 Gen Ed Puts College In Compromising Position To the Editors: While Professor Warde and the other General Education proponents might feel that I'm merely throwing a wtench in the wheels (particularly since Gen Ed has already been installed), I feel compeUed to write and offer something for them and the rest of the Union community to ponder about while Gcn Ed undergoes its first year of implementation. Maybe I feel compelled because it still astounds me as to how. during the four years I attended Union, the program was formulated and approved with little or no recognition by both the stlldent body and general faculty·- little or no attention to a program that will change Union and the entire educational process. I truly believe that Gen Ed is being fed to a college that has little understanding what it is meant to do and no understanding of its implications. General Education has been sold to Union under the pretense that it will enhance the quality of its students' education. Hand in hand with this notion, the College believes that such improvements will increase Union's appeal to students and parents in the competitive college market. (Better educati.on means better marketability, no?) While, ultimately, I believe Professor Warde's intentions are aimed at promoting a healthier academic experience, I stress again 'that General Educ:ation is Jmndamentally detrimen- taJ to Union in the longa run. Professor Warde and the Gen Ed Committee have, on past occasion, referred to the other notable colleges stating that Union's Gen Ed program is in keeping with what ~the rest' are doing. They have also cited various reports and studies and educaiion experts, like William Bennett, to add further legitimacy to the Gen Ed program. My answer to th;is is that the trends and the experts are wrong. Now, this allegation is a strong one, but I'm prepared: to offer my rationale. The inherent problem with General Education and similar programs abroad is that it assumes an entirely new responsi- bility for colleges-a res- ponsibility that should be placed (and has tradi· tionally been placed) on the high school system. Obviously, once the burden is openly and willingly assumed by the college system, high schools no longer carry the weight Gen Ed is being installed to provide Union students with a 'semi'·uniform curriculum in such 'essentials' as history, math, languages, sciences, etc. It is geared at literally 'picking up the slack' from the high school system. S1:1cll a conclusion can be gathered from as early as the committee's formulative reports to as recently as Jay Freeland's front page article in the October 12 issue of Concordiensis (\National Academic Survey Yields Frightening Results\). The article refers to a national survey of college seniors. The report was \frightening\ particularly since portions of the test were designed for 17- year·olds (high school seniors). The recommendations from the National Endowment was to revise college curricula-· exactly what Union has done with Gen Ed, as Professor Warde stated in the article. with one exception concerning choice in history. The problem with the Endowment's recommendation is that it overlooks the obvious, that is, the high school system. Although such a program might not seem too unreasonable in an era where the national high school system is faltering, I think a signal like the one Union (along with the majority of colleges) is sending out is harmful to the idea of higher education. First, it will further subtract from limited college time devoted to 'higher' education, such as in-depth study in a particular f.ie ld or advanced 'college-level' study of customary disciplines. The Liberal Learning program, which was established well before I attended Union, was meant to insure breadth in the college experience. However, Gen Ed was ·drafted with cliffercnt intentions. It is exactly because of these intentions that Gen Ed finnly entrenches Union with other colleges on a level ORe lower than higher education was meant to be. Second, it eventually wm force more students to attend coHe2e if they desire to reach the same level of education that high school graduates received one. Increased college matriculaton might not be that 'bad,' but it will be for those who choose not to go on to college, whether for personal or financial reasons. Under extreme circumstances, a large proportion of the American public will interact in society under-educated. Further encou.ragement, indirectly coming from colleges, will change the educational process as we know it. Already signs of a weakening high school system and a compromising college system are evident. Increased demand for advanced degrees in the job market for positions whetc ten years ago none was required is a possible symptom. In c<Jnclusion, without being gui1ty of simply pointing a finger at Professor Warde, General Education and Union Page 13 LETTERS College, I want lo stress that Union hardly deserves all the blame. This would be a gross over-generalization of what has ·been said in this open letter. However, the College is following a 'trend' that it shouldn't be. Moreover, it doesn't have to. Union has an opportunity to take a separate path·- an initiative that attacks the problem instead of merely 'bandaiding' it. One key is in the admissions office. Demanding higher standards of its applicants will help, perhaps taking the form of entrance exams testing competency in the exact areas that Gen Ed stresses. This, alone, won't help though. Union needs to vocalize such a policy within the academic community in order for it to work. It needs to take a stand and point out the skewed way in which colleges have recently attempted to solve the education 'problem.' Someone in the academic community needs to say that it won't stand for the deterioration of higher education, its traditions and its ideals. Moreover, Union, the individual, the community and the entire nation need to address high school education in this country and seek active means by which to rehabilitate iL Sincerely, Christine Hong '89 Hickok Resident Blasts Student Forum & Concordiensis' Shoddy Treatment To the Editor: A long time ago, in a galax.y far, far away, there was such a thing as good journalism. lt held such ideas as truth, integrity, facts, and fair, unbiased writing in highest regard Apparently. The Coocor- diensis doesn't feel this way. On October 26, 19&9, The Concordiensis published a lead story concerning the Hickok House program. It was entitled \Living·Learning Residents Critical of Program.\ There are 40-50 residents in Hickok House. Many of them were angry. More important, I was angry. No, no-- make that enraged. In high school, I was involved in the newpaper as copy editor and writer. With that in mind, the so·called \article\ mentioned a~ve was one of the worst examples of journaJism 1 had ever seen in my entire lifetime. I have seen junior high and elementary school articles that were written better than this. Can you say facts. boys and girls? Can you say imcgrity? Can you say unbiased writing? Good--1 thought you couldn't. Let's start at the beginning, shall we? To begin with, the Student Forum meeting was held on Monday, not Tuesday. Who- ever did the \reporting\ for this wonderful little gem of an article had some sort of trouble figuring out that silly little thing called time. You know, that concept that governs the actions and lives of the entire race? Well, that's not too bad. A moot point, in fact. Just a taste of things to come. Incidentally, the purpose of the student forum's visit was originally to show Hickok residents how student government worked. However, immediately after the discussion on Hickok, we were asked to leave since \the real meeting was beginning.\ Adjectives arc a wonderful thing. Especially those dealing with quantity. Il's strange really-- they identify how many people feel a certain way or do a certain thing. All. Some. Most. You know-- unneeded words like that. But I digress. Point # 1: Did all the students not know about the ten minute walk to campus? Do they all feel totally isolated? Do all the students not recommend the living arrangement? Do they all feel bitter? If I feel bitter about anything, it's the shoddy treatment my dorm has been given by both the Student Forum and T h e Concor diensis. I am sick and tired of the constant negative image being given to the Hickok program. Believe it or not, not everyone, if anyone, loathes and detests Hickok House. There are even some people who would enter the Hickok program a_gain if they had a second chance. They would even recommend it to other students. Incredible, ain't it? Point # 2: According to the article, the program was \supposed to provide a cohesive academic environment for students... special talks with professors ... and teaching assistants.\ The article then goes on to state that \the school has not come through on these pn~miscs. There have been no visits by professors and there is only one teaching assistant living there.\ Apparently, someone casually forgot to listen to those few positive comments that were stated al the forum. Incredible as it may seem, one can actually work in one's room. People help each otner in their respccti ve classes. There's actually some form of discussion outside of class. Incredible, is it not\ Somcon~ also did not get his facts straight. There have, in fact, been two visiting professors, and a meeting with deans, profess<Jrs and students. Although there have definitely not been many special academic or social events as promised by the brochure, one should realize that Hickok House is a completely new program with its own set of .pfoblems. This idea can also be attributed to the Hickok problem with teaching assistants-- the reason there are none is because there arc none who are familiar with the new Gen Ed program. Apparently someone forgot aoout research and clarity. Point #3: It's funny how words can be twisted or selectively used. Obviously, the residents in Hickok House are close-knit because they feel isolated-- not because they live in a more relaxed, less crowded aUllosphcre where they can get to know each other more. No, that's ridiculous. Now, get ready for an interesting line: \the one sophomore living there [Hickok] said that the group is no closer than a normal floor in a dorm.\ Besi<lcs the fact that there arc four upperclassmen living in H tckok, what docs this sophomore know·~ All of the uppcrdassmcn live in the far corner of the basement level. What docs one sophomore know about the people living on the first and second floor of Hickok. much less the rest of the people on the floor? Wouldn't it make more sense to ask the freshmen on the other two floors what they felt? Give me a break! Once again, the only thing I feel bitter about is the biased, one sided, single minded treatment given to us by both this newspaper and the forum. I will admit that not many people stood up for the program at the forum, and chose to stay silent instead. They were so shocked at the prevalent attitude at the forum that they were unable to speak. I was one of them. Now I'm making up for it. Before closing, I would like to make one final point-- the article in question, if it belongs anywhere at all, docs not belong anywhere on the front page of a newspaper or in its feature section. If it has w be placed somewhere, it should be put in the Editorial secti0n-- howevcr, it is written so l\l:1dly and so sloppily that I '\l'uld hesitate putting it even tlh'r,· I believe that The Conrnrd- iensis should take a , lt:trJ' look m itself- ·hc,·atJ'''· '·' tth its past and pn.'sl'nt ht;''~·d attacks, it will quickly f1,,,,)t11l' a mockery nf evcrythtn)! th.H '' held important to writtn!! and journalistic integrity. Adam Fischer HICKOK HOUSE

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, November 2,. 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY From the World of Science • • • By DON VALERIO Science and Technm'lCJgy Editor ADMINISTRATI ()N DIVIDED OVER GLOBAL W ARMI~ G The Bush Administration is being increasingly pre~~ll.fed from a variety of fronts. to take more aggressive action 011 the · problem of global wuming~ The EnvironmentaiProte<tion Agency favors bolder slleps by the United States, incl11ding stabilizing the carbon dio\ide emissions known to cause global warming. Top White House officials, incl11ding Chief of Staff John S~tnunu, and the President's ~ience advisor, D. Allan Bromley, acknowledge that a threat. exists but refuse to set specifi~ goals until further scientific eVidence is gained. Carbon dioxide emissi<011s are produced by burning fuel:S like . coal and oil, and are beli.eved to be warming the eartll by trapping heat in the atmos:phere in a process like that in a greenhouse. The United States produces about one-fifth ()f the world's annual carbon di()xide amount would prove very costly to business. The Busll Administration is in conflict wit·h several environmental organizations over the extent to which steps to solve the problem must he taken. Environmentalists are calling for aggressive action while the administration wishes to study in depth any impacts limitation might have on industry. SKIN CANCER INCREASES Researchers have found tbt two types ()f skin cancer are increasing at alarming rates in the United States. The increases are apparently due to people spc11di11g more time in the sun. Tile study~ conduc.ted from 1960 to 1987, reported that the incideiiCe of malignant melanoma a11d squamous cell skin cancer rose three- to four- fold over the -17-yearperiod. MaltgnMlt melanoma is the leading cause of death from -skin disease in the country. It is characte:Ji2ed by changes in an existi11g mole or the appearance of a new mole. Squamous cell skin c-ancer can appear as an open sore or a hard-surfaced lump anywhere on the body. It also spreads and kills rapidly. The Journal of the American Medical Association suggests that people avoid extensive exposure to ultravi~let rays from the sun, par:ticularly since the decay of the ozone in the atmosphere may be allowing larger amounts of radiation to strike the ground. The use of sunscreens with a protection ; factor of IS or greater is also strongly recommended. SMOKING GOAL IMPOSSIBLE TO REACH The nlte of smoking among Americans continues t! decline, health officials say, but not enough to meet next year's goal of a population in which only 25% of adults smoke. A 1987 survey of adult Americans showed that 28.8% were cigarette smokers, down from 30.1% in a similar 1985 study. The National Center for Disease C.ontrol says that the smoking rate has fallen about one-'half percentage point a year since 1964, when the Surgeon General's warning announced. that smoking causeS' cancer :;md heart disease. At that :time, 40% of adults were smokers. Although the rate of smokers is dropping, almost 40();000 Americans die every yeaJ from smoking~related disease. GEWOMlC ROAD MAP An international effort to map the genes of a wide v~ety of species, from slime molds to humans, advanced significantly when scientists recently settled on a cemmon method of identifying the genetic markers distributed on chromosomes. The agreement was aonounced at the first international conference . .of tile Human Genome Project, a $3 billion, 15-year ptogram to find the 50,000 to 100~000 .genes scattered on the 46 c;hromosoroes in each human cell. Researchers ate looking for stretches of DNA wllose locations &n a chromosome is known. It :is hQped that these known stretches will serve as markers to identify genes.The ultimate goal is to find the exact sequence of human genes described ill units of base pairs. Genomic maps of simpler organisms. like bacteria and mice, will be made :simultaneously. More than $100 million will . . be .spent on the .project i11 the United States next year. Scl1enectady County Legislature ~~~ WBUAS, 'IHB SCIIEIIECTADY COUNTY LEGISLATURE IJiD ALl. CQUIITY RESIDENTS COHHEND TJIIl ADHINUTRATIOH, l'ACULTY,. A.JID STUDEINT BODY OF UIUOH COLLEGE P()R THBIIl CONCERTED EFFORT TO COMBAT TH8 HULTl..,..FACTEU: AlDS DISI!AS!';;. HOW. TnEUFOilE• BE IT P R 0 C L A M A T I 0 H Wl!E:RE,AS, UI~ll()ll COLLEGE WILL BE. COifDUCTIRG TREIR THIRD ANNUAL AIDS CONFERENCB TH& W&KK Ol! OCTOBER 29, 198~ AND HAS EXPANDED THE FORMAT OP Tall CONFERENCE TO' SIX DAYS AND ADDED ~ ·COMMUNITY-WIDE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS Allll EVENTS: AIC·D \ffiEREAS, nus; WKAR UNION COLLEGE IS llORUNG IN CONJUNCTION WITH TilE SCIIENECTADY COURTY AIDS TASK PO!tCB AND Till!. HORTHKASTERN AIDS COUNCIL D a&OADEN TBK ·SCO~K OF THEIR CONFEREMCBi AmD WHEREAS, 'IHIS 111!&!(-LONG EVENT IS AN AnEKPT TO INVOLVE THE TOTAL C:OHMUNI'l\Y IN EDUCATION ~ INFORMATIONAL ACTIVi!lBS REG~ING AIDS; AND 'llllEREAS, DUR!IlG 'TillS WEEK. TIIKRE liiLL BK SEVERAL EVENTS. DESIGNED 'TO IIEIGIITEN I'UBLIC AllAll.KNESS OF Till! AID:S PROIILE!l IN OUR CCIHHUHITY: O!Ct-ilber 30th ltickoff llrealcfasl: at Union College wen a :Jl>rofile of AIDS/HIV poal.tive persons ln Schenectady C\'u.nl:y wll 1 be presented. A 'lDIS lllad IV Drug Use ,s,.poaJ.oa at Schenectad:r Couni::J C\'~nity College w~rkshops on AIDS - Hiapaalcs and Blacks Cocference· at Linton 11igh School for parerite and tee~hera which will focua on poaitive osea of tha .A.lliiS currlculu. WEREAS • Till! J\W[)ttESAID EDUCATICN.U. I'RClGIIAHS AilE EXTREHEJ.Y IHPORTMT. TO CUR COtQ{UIUT! lt,T TIIIS 'J:l!IB AND J'UIILIC AliAJIBifESS OF SAHK SHOULD DB ENCOURAG!II; J.liD RESOLVED, TRAT I, CIIARLES DRAGO, Jll., CHAIRKAII OP TllB SCHllHltcrADY COIJNTY LEGISLA'11JIIl& Pii.OCLAiH T!IE WEEK Of OC'tOIIER 29,; 1989 4S \'AIDS EDUCATION AWARENESS WEEK\ J:H TilE COUNTY OF SCIIBHECTD., AND HEREBY A.CDlOIII.EDGE THB TRIRD ANNUAL AIDS CONFERENCE HELD BY aNION CO~tBCE • . lil'TIIESS ay hancl 11ad the seal of t:he Sc1aenectacly County Legb- latmre, at the City of Scbenec:- tad~, this 20th clay of October. One· lhousand Nine Rondred and lUgbt7 Nlue \ I

Page U CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY From the World of Scie,nce • • • D:;v DON VALERIO Science and Technology Editor ADMINISTRATION DIVIDED OVER GLOBAL WARMING The Bush Administration is being increasingly ,pressuyed from a variety of fronts to take more aggressive action on the problem of global warming. The Environmental Protection Agency favors bolder steps by the United States, including stabilizing the carbon dioxide emissions known to cause gl()bal warming. Top White House officials, including Chief of Staff John Sununu, and the President's science advisor, D. AHan Bromley, acknowledge that a threat exists but refuse to set specific goals until further scientific evidence is gained. Carbon dioxide emissions are prod11ced by burning fuels like coal and oil, and are believed to be warming the earth by trapping heat i:n the aunosphere in a process like that in a greenhouse. The United States produces about one-fifth of the W()rld's annual carbon dioxide amoum would prove very costly to business. The Bush Administrati()n ,is in conflict with several envir01unental organizations over Lhe extent to which steps to solve the problem rn11st be taken. Environmentalists are calling for aggressive action while the administration wishes to study in depth any impacts: limitation might have on industry. SKIN CANCER INCREASES Researchers have fouJld tht two types of skin cancer are increasing at alarming rates in the United States. The increases are apparently due to people spending more tirne in the sun . The study, con<lt~cted from 1960 to 1987. re]JOrted that the incidence of malignant melano'ma and squamous cell skin cancer rose three- to four- fold over the 17 -year period. Malignant melanoma is the leading cause of deatl:l from skin disease in the country. It is ctlaracterized by chang-es in an existing mole ()f the appearance of a new mole. Squarn()US cell skin cancer can appear as an open sore or a hard-surfaced lump anywhere on the body. It alw spreads and kills rapidly. The Joumal of the American Medical Association suggests that people avoid extensive exposure to ultraviolet rays from the sun, particularly since the decay of the ozone in the atmosphere may be allowing larger amounts of radiation to strike the ground. The use of sunscreens with a protection ; factor of 15 or greater is also strongly recommended. SMOKING GOAL IMPOSSIBLE TO REACH The rate of smoking among Americans continues l \\ decline, health officials say, but not enough to meet next year's goal of a population in which only 25% of adults smoke. A 1987 survey of adult Americans showed that 28.8% were cigarette smokers, down from 30.1% in a similar 1985 study. The National Center for Disease Control says that the smoking rate has fallen about one-half percentage point a year since 1964, when the Surgeon General's warning announced that smokin~ causes cancer and heart disease. At that time, 4-0% of adults were smokers. Although the rate of smokers is dmpping, almost 400,000 Americans c:lie every year from smoking-related disease. GENOMIC ROAD MAP An international effort to map the gen.es ()fa wide variety ()f species, fr{)m slime molds to humans, advanced ~ignificantly when scientists recently settled on a common method of identifying the genetic markers distributed on chromosDmes. The agreement was anno\lnced at the first international conference of the Human Ge11ome Project. a $3 billion, 15-year program. to find the 50,000 to 100,000 genes scattered on the 46 chromosomes in each human cell. Researchers are looking for stretches of DNA whose locations on a chromosome is known. It is hoped that these known stretches will serve as markers to identify genes. The ultimate goal is to find the exact sequence of human genes described in units of base pairs. Genomic maps of simpler organisms, like bacteria and mice. will be made simultaneously. More than $100 million will be spent on the project in the United States next year. Schenectady County Legislature==~ WHRIIEAS 0 TIU! SCJIENECTA.IDY OOUfiTY LEGISLATURE AND ALL COUM'IY RESIDENTS COMMEND TliB .IDMINISTRAT lOti, FACULTY, AND STUDENT BODY OF UIHOtl COLLEGE FOR TIIIUJt CONCHtTED R!'FOR'f ~0 C:OHllAT TIIH KULTI-FACTI!D: AIDS fllSHASE; NOW, THEREPOU, 8.1! It' PROCLAMATION lfiiEREAS, UNION OO!.LEGE WILL BE CONDUCTING m&llt THIRD ANNUAL AIDS CONFERENCE THE WEEK OF OCTOBER 29, I 'J89 AND RAS KXI'Ai!DilD Till! FORMAT OF TilE CONFERENCE TO SIX D~YS AND ADOEe MANY COMMUN!TY-WlDE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND E'l EN'TS ; AND WHEREAS. THIS YEAR \JtiiOH COLI.EGB IS WORKING Ill £0NJUNCTION WITH THE SCHENECTADY COUIITY AIDS TASK I'ORCE AHO THE NORrllltASTERN AIDS COUNCIL TO BR.OAD&N Til& SCOPE OF THEIR COilF!lEIEHCE; AND WHEREAS, TillS Wll&\K-LDNG EVENT IS AN ATTEMPT TO INifOLVE TilE TOTAL COMMUNITY IN EDUCATION AND lMFORHATlONAL ACTIVITIES REGARD!~~ AIDS; AND WHEREAS, DURIN(; TillS llEEit Tlll':IIE WILL BE SKYI!:RAL EVENTS, DESIGNED TO HE IGIITEN PUBLIC ~'11/U\ENF.SS OF TltF. AIDS PROBLEM IN ()UR. COMMUNITY: Octobe~ 30th Kickoff Breakfast at Union College When a profile of 1\.IDS/nrv positive persona l.n Schenectady County 1<lll be presented AIDS and IV Drug Use, s,.,poaiua at Scllenectady County Co.-unity College Workshops on AIDS - Hispanics and Blacks Conferen~e at Ll~ton High School for parents and teachers which will focua on positive n~ee of the AIDS curricululll llHERUS, THE AFOIIKSo\ID EDUCA'IlOI'fAL PROGRAMS ARK Ul\REHBLY IMPORTANT TO OITR COMMUNITY AT TDlS IIHE AND fUBL~C AWAREKKSS OF 5~ SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED; AND RESOLVED, \TIIAT I, CIIAJl!.l!S {)IIA.GO, JR., CHAIKHAH OP Til& SCIII!HI!CTADY COUNTY LEGISLATURE PROCLAIM ~Hffi ~H~ OF OCTOBER 29 0 1989 AS RAI~S EDUCATION AWAllENESS WEEB:.\ IN 'IHffi COUilTY OF SCHENECTADY AND HEREBY AClNOWLEDGE THE TlllRD ANNUAL AIDS CO!JFE!:RKNCil HELD BY UNION COLLECK. ~TNESS ay hand mud the seal of the Schenectady County Legis- lature, at the City of Schenec- tady, tbls 20th day of October. One Thousand Nine Rundred and Eighty Nine -----

CONCORDl Novtmber 2, 198'9 P'age 15 SCIENCE AND TE·CHN~OLOGY CROSSTALK PRESENTS · DO WOMEN REALLY BELONG AT UNION? · VICiolls drought In the sum· TONIGHT Thursday, November 2, 1989 mer Clf '88 and continuin~ 'fl6athercha!lges have spurred White House and cgngressional action. Tll!siftlll, .President Bush has arranged an envrronmental summn to dis· cuss giQbat warming wQil wortd leaders, while Members of Congress devElop bills to shape U.S. porJCY~ a::oo pm - College Center Atrium Panelists: · Since last January, senators have lntro· - dtJCSd fiVe bills, led by. Colora= Democrat Tim Wirth's \National Energy Policy Ad! of 1989\ {S. 324).HOl!Semembershavalntroduced four bills. Rep. Claudine Schneider's (A.R;I.) \Global Warm- Ing Prev4!ntlon Act~ (H;A. 1078) is the most oomprehenslve. All measures altad< the causes of. global warming: hum all ;pollutants. *Professor J. Douglas Klein \Susan Kerscit ~ Union '91' · *Barbara Burek - Union '75 (President of Alumni Council} •Ray· Holst - Union '90 HIGH.;LEVEL CAREERS ARE LAUNCHED WITH AIR FORCE ROTC. Flying a 15-ton jet is notfor everyone. But for those who can meet the challenge, it's a thrill that no other carEer can offer. The Wirth bill would touch a number of Issues, from automobile emissions to .population control:efforts In the ThirdWorld. K would boost research funds for aMernatlve energy sources -- S<llar, wind, geothermal, and alternative auto fuels like etllanolandmethanol Some environmental- Ists were disturbed b' ll:'le bill's :Increased re- search funding for new standardized nuclear power plant designs (eflil:iency is cheaper, so why,waste tim$ and monew on nukes?), but these provisions may be droppe~ from .final legislation. ' How abopt you? If you're thinlting about life at Mach. 2, think about Air Force ROTC immediately. It will launch the leadership skills you;ll needas an Air Force officer - skills that will serve you for a lifetime. ,fAA-approved flight lessons will get your feet off the ground fo:r:!he first time. Schneider's bill also woul<:! loosen the tap on research funding fllr alternative energy sources, and sets-tougher ernissionstandards for Industry and)lehiCies. Thlsb!l! would require new carstogetbettergas mileage (eventually as high as 45 miles per gallon) and encol!rage _state governments to adopt\nergy planning laws that empllasize using the cheapest energy supplies firSt. Start now .. Contact CAPT DAVlD MilEWSKI 315-276~6236 A. ]oint resolu1ioll backed by 1he National \Nildlif13 Federation calls Cltl the nation to adopt some of the bestprovlskms of both the Wirth and Scllnelder measures. Th~resotutron (S.J.Res. 88 LeadershipExcell¢nce Starts Here - andH.J.Res. 207}calls for.a l'iatlonalcommHment to reduce current U.S. caroon dioxide emissions by 20 percent by the ye~r 2000, and increase funding and research .for afternative energy sources, energyandal!tornobile efHciency. ft also effida1 Jr¢da:nta1fon ()rfie¢ cf1R~~ i!Je9~cJ:ad..!J.N'~- ~t~f~t~t~:t:~f~l~f~ trlf:IEREAS: wAtO.S SOUC~TICN AWARENESS WEE~\ Oc.tob« 29 - NovembM 5. J9B9 Ull.i11n Ce1Ue.ge. witt bt eomiuc.titig ;theW!. ThLtd Alf.III.Ld AlVS Co11&q/tmc.e. .the. week o6 Oc..tob~ 'Z9. 1989 l11 c.ottj{ln.c.t.i.on ~.ith .the. Sehe.ne..c.tad!( Coun.tv AlVS T a4k Fo~tee attd the No.JI.thu.6teJUt AIVS CoWteU~ a.nd 41tlS u a. eo;pte.x. and mrJt:t.i.-Mtcet~d dtU.t16e., .ft . ..6.Ue.~ d:Ue.a.u. - a. di.Awe. uihae. (lit .i.116e.ete.rt pelt.6un ~(lit u~llB(Y tJI.a.)U.m.U .u to otiJ.~ oveJL a. pW.od. o~. ye.aM> be.,oJr.e .the. d.Lu«Ae. mt:tni.6u.t6 .i.Uu& 1 and · AIVS .U. a. dUet16E- wlt:i.clt·--6oiU!U l'L6· to eon6JtOnt alllt. .incUv.i.dual.. and -6aeie.ta! valuu cUUL -U alt qJidem.ie wh.ieh doe.& ~~ l.e.nd .i.Ue..t.& ~a 4.bnpLUt.ic. 4!1!uUOn6 l tUicf. M-IEREAS: CUII!lttt.U!/, lu!OIIJ!e.d-ge, which -U .;lte 6.ill..6t .~>tep .to dtitwt.i.ttal. and be.hav.i.o/tal. changU, ,U oU)r. <Ott!!/ hope. 6o.l!. piZ.t.UUI.t.i.OK a& fiiV .i.K6~c.t.i.cll and 60Jt -6tt11A.U.i.v.Uy u -wt . .inteltaet with pilt6olll> .iri.6e.c.te4 w-Uit the HIV v.itu.lh: attrl ~eM, THEREFORE, I, KJ.REN 8. JOHNSON, f.IIWoJr. o6 tlte. CU;y oo Scheu.c..tady, d.o l!.t~~-eb!l p1toc!IWrt .the CA~t:ek o& Oc.tobvr. 29 .tltWL ~(}VVIIbeA 4, 1919 ao \AlVS EVUCATZOH AlfARE'N'ESS WEEK\ itt -the City o 6 SeheJtec.tad.y and rvtge. owr. c-UL:zt.lll> to .~>uppoiLt th.i.h Tuk fOJt.c.e .itt U:A e&6olrh> to educ.a.tC!- .the corniiiUtt..Ltl/ bt eomb~11g AIVS. . l~ 83J~Jleil~ -~(lf~Qf~jf I 3J ~abe t£r£nnta ~tt m!' l)anil anll causeb tbe sed of tbe <!itp of ~ctetuctailp to bt affi:<dJ tuts · {~-..Jww. .?~, 11~ . ) . ··. - _ 1~ ~ rB,:j1=i-- · larru dfobtt1u1tt :fJJlttt.yur Global Warming Issue UP-_date recolllmands banning ozone depleting cheml· cal& ~Y ,1995, and measures reducing delores· 1at!o11 an<l Increasing. Investments In mass transt Unfortunately, none of. these maas· urers will succeed withaut pressure from the ~rCJssroots (that's you). The Mch? PoiHics. Wirth's bill must first make Its way t~rougtl the Senate Energy Committee, facing ti>IJQ~ <lPJlOSitlon from conservative oil-state sanalors. Schneider's bill suffers two down· f~iiS.Hertaglslatlon may be too progressive for l!iGn}'. House members. She's CJiso a Republl· caB in a Democratically col\trolled House, and Is rlll'lnlng! against D~moc:rat Claiborne Pell for Rhode Island's .open.Senatneat next fall. 'Democrats aren~ lkely to grant any of her !~islatloll easy pas- sage; Because of its stiingent automobile ef· :nclency and emissions :reqt~iremellts, soma speculate that her bill nay be I:Jiack·holed In committee anyway by Joh11 Dlngell, (P·Mich.) cflair. of. tha,House En· :ngv and Commerce Cdmmittee. Bei/Bve It: Congr9Ss will focus on the potltfquo while the world fries unless you apply pressure. So get on the phone or 1119 terminal and raise ... their consciousness. Becaus9 many JJSOple dori't bother to Je.tCon- gress know how they feel, Congressmem- bers figure that one call or Jetter represents about 500 constituents. COOL JTJ with a cam· pus lett9r csmpafgn. Write your senators aMtepresentatlve at: House: Honorab/9 __ _ U.S. Hauss of RspresenlaUves Washington, D.C. ~515 Senate: Honorab/11 ___ _ U.S. Senate Washington, D.C. ~D51D \Actually they all look alike to me.\

CONCORDIENSIS, November 2, 1989 Page 1.5 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CROSSTALK PRESENTS , DO WOMEN R'EALLV BELONG AT TON:IGHT Thursday, November 2, 1989 8:00 pm - College Center Atrium Panelists: *Professor J. Douglas Klein *Susan Kersch - Union '91 *Barbara Burek - Union '75 (President of Alumni Council) •Ray Holst - Union '90 HIGH-LEVEL CAREERS ARE lAUNCHED WITH AIR FORCE ROTC. Flying a 15-ton jet is not for everyone. But for those who can meet the challenge, it's a thrill that no other career can offer. How about you? If you're thinking about life at Mach 2, think about Air Force ROTC immediately. It will launch the leadership skills you'll need as an Air Force officer- skills that will serve you for a lifetime. FAA-approved flight lessons will get your feet off the ground for the first time. Start now. Contact CAYf DAVID MILEWSKI 315-276-6236 Leadership Excellence Starts Here Vicious drought In the sum· mer of '88 and continuing W'8a1her changes have spurredWhite House and congressional action. This fall; President Bush has arranged an environmental summH to dls- CliSS global warming with world leaders, while t.tembers of Congress develop bills to shape U.S. policy. 511'\Ce last January, senators have Intra· · dliCed five bills, led by Colora::: Democrat Tim Wirth's \National Energy Policy Act of 1989\ (S. 324). House members have Introduced four bills. Rep. Claooine Schneider's (R-R.I.) \Global Warm· .i!lg Prevention Act\ (H.R. 1078) is the most comprehensive. All measures attack the causes of global warming: human pollutants. The Wirth bill would touch a number of Issues, from automobile emissions to population oontrol efforts in the Third World. It would boost research funds for a~ernative energy sources - ~lar, wind, geothermal, andalternative auto fuels lila ethanol and methanol. Some environmental· Isis were disturbed by the bill's Increased re- search funding for new standardized nuclear power plant designs (efficiency is cheaper, so why waste lime and money on nukes?), but these provisions may be ,dropped from final legislation. Schneider's bill also would loosen the tap on research funding for alternative energy sources, and sets tougher emission standards for lridusL-y and vehicles. This bill would require new c;ars to get better gas mileage (eventually as high as 45 miles per gallon) and encourage .state .~overnments to adopt energy planning laws that emphasize using the cheapest energy supplies first. A joint resolution backed by the National Wildlife Federation calls on the nation to adopt some of the best provisions of both the Wirth and Schneider measures. The resolution (S.J.Res. sa and H.J.Res. 207) calfs lor anational commitment t{) reduce current U.S. carbon dioxide emissions by 20 percent by the year 2000, and Increase funding and research for atternative energy sources, energy and automobile efficiency. n also Global Warming Issue Update riiCOmmends banning ozone depleting chemi- cals by 1995, and measures r&duclng defores- tation and Increasing Investments In mass transit. Unfortunately, none of these meas· urers will sucx:eed without pressure .from the grassroots (that's you). The hitch? Politics. Wirth's bill must first make Its way through the Senate Energy Committee, facing tough opposition from conse:rvatlve oil-state senators. Schneide(s bill sutlers two down· falls. Her legislation may be too progressive for many House members. She's also a Republi- can in a Democratically controlled House, and Is run nlng against Democrat Claiborne Pell for Rhode Island's open Senate seat next fall. Democrats aren't likely to gran! any of her legislation easy pas- sage. Because of its stringent automobile ef· ficlency and emissions requirements, some speculate that her bill may be black-holed In committee anyway by John Dingell, (D·Mich.) chair of the House En- ergy and Commerce committee. lielleve it: Congress wf/1 focus on the polltlque while the votld fifes .unfess you .sppfy pressure. So get ()n the phone or the tmTJinal and raise ••• ths/r.conscJousness. Because many people don \t bother to Jet Con- 9ress Jcnow how they lee/, CtJngressmem- bers fi{Jure thst one call cr Jetter represents about SOO constituents. COOL /TJ wfth a cam- pus letler campaign. IVllte your senators and reJ)resentatfve at: House: Honor9Blfe ___ _ U.S. I!OIJSS Ol Representatives WasiJI~ton, IJ.C. 20515 Senate: HOIIOISlJIII ___ _ u.s. semts Washf~ton, IJ.C. 20510 ®ff~~~;J!:~\~~!.~Pon Write ~-t~t~t~t~f~t~~t~t~ ~EREAS: \AIVS fDUCATJOW AWARENESS WEEK\ Octob~ 29 - Novemb~ 5, 1989 Utti.on Cot!ege w.Ul. b~ c.ottduc.ting thU!t TIUJr.d Anl'llLitl AIVS Ccm6~vtc.e the week o6 Oc.tobe.JL 29, 1989 bt cottjutt.c.t.i.cm with the Schenectady Coun.t!l A!VS Ta.c~l!. FoiLCe. a.nd. .the. No1Lthe..a4tvr.n AIVS Council; a.nd. AIVS .U ct c.omp.te.x. 4ltd mul.t.i.-6acued d.i.J..e.M~, 1t .6Ue.nt d.Ue.cu.e. - a cUHM e. wheJt.e. an .i.n& ec.te.d pe.M on c.m ulll.IJUtlngt!l tlta.Mm.U .U to cthe.M oveJL a. peJLi.od o6 ye.aM be&o!r.e. .th<~. d.i.he~e. man.i6u.t6 .Uat&; and !IJHEREAS: AIVS .U a di.J..e.Me wh.i.c.lt 6oJtc.e.6 llh to c.on6Jton.t oWt. .i.nd.i.v.idua.l and 4oc.A.e.tal. value.& a.rtd .U an e.p.idem.i.c. wh.i.c.h do~ Mt tend .i.:Ud' .to .o.i.mplli.tic. .~oolu.t.i.orn.; and WEREAS: CU/()te.ttt.t.y, lutow.t.e.dge, wlt.i.dt .U the. 6ill.t .llte.p to aiUtud.i.nal. IUid beha.v.i.olt4l. changu, .i.6 oWL only hope. 60Jt. pill!-11ention o6 HIV bt6ec.t.ion and 0 o11. 4e.M.U.i.v.i..ty a..6 we. .i.n.te.Jtae.t w.Uia peMonh bt6 ~c.ted. w.Uh the. HlV v~; a.nd NcXII, THEREFORE, I, KAREN 8. JOHNSON, MayalL o6 the. CU!I o6 Sdtenec.tady, do heAeby p!toc.l.ahlt the. we.ek o6 Oc.tob~ 29 thWL NoveJTibVI. 4, 1989 a.& \AIVS EVUCATION ~ARENESS WEEKW bt the. C<.ty o o Sc.he.nect.ady a.nd Wtge. oUir. e-U.iart& to .ouppoJLt th.U T a.~oll. Fottc.e. bt UJ. e.Q6oJt.tA .to e.duca.te. the. co111muii.Uy .in c.omba..Uttg AIVS. Jji mm13Hit~~~ Q!ilil~<fltqEOl}jf. 3J babe 1)ereunto ~et mp f)anb anb causeb tbe seal of tf)e C!itp o! $ci)enertallp to b£ affixdJ tbtS (':'c_~ J~ I 11 ~ iKare-n 3Jnhttaou iluynr For Science/ \Actually they all look alike to me.\

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS~ Novembtr 2, 198!) AR'fS & ENTERTAINMENT Gross Anatomy The Bear Uncle Buck An Innocent Man Look Who's Talking Worth Winning Immediate Family Shocker Look Who's Talking Sea of Love Black Rain The Fabulous Baker Boys Next of Kin Call Theaters for Show Times. cAMpus ~O~rn:J@[!,®@~ 0 Gr~ffi'ff@~ . MOVIES Fri.-Sun. Nov. 3-5 \Batman\ 7, 9~ 11 PM _, ....... t7('j •• ,j< ..... ~ ... M' .. I•\\\ , ......... ~~ ·- ............. _'\'\\\'\\'\'\' Wed., Nov. 8 u 7, 9, 11 PM \My Stepmother Is An Alien\ '\10+! < )N L .(>I· TI-JL V EJ~Y f->,L .. ~I· M( >VIE ... \-> < )f-· TilE VE/\.n~· ••·' It' I 1) My Stepmother lsAnAlten }1!113 :: Auditions - Three 'Penny Opera A Musical by Bertold Brecht PRODUCED BY MOUNTEBANKS The play is about thieves, whores, beggars, cut throats, double crossing, killing and chaos. FUN FOR ALL 3 Male Leads: Mac the Knife, Mr. Peachum. 'Tiger Brown 4 Female Leads: Polly and Lucy, Lowdive Jenny, Mrs. Peachum AUDITIONS NOVEMBER 5th at 6:00 i11 Arts 215 Cast - singing and noD-simging roles v E y ·e R Tlttee Penny Opera - lt'fl JJOt an tJpera Solution to \Voter's \foice\ E R B H 0 u s E p L I s L A s r A N E E A E R. 0 N A D s A l M A E E. N D N s u T N E N T ' A Preview Of ''Before The Butterfl'ies\ Pictured: Eel Vassalo, Johanna Cambell, Barry Smith r,nearsing for the production of \B$fore The Butterflies\. By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Editor Last year Union's Tlleatre Group put on \Black Cocoon\ and they had planned to perform it again under the title \Black Cocoon Too\; but now the production has meta- morphosised into \Before The Butterflies\ and it is finally ready to fly. \Before The Butterflies\ consists of about thirty 3-5 minute skits in which the characters get caught lip in their respective subject matters. In fact, the characters get so wrapped up in their emotions. it's all they know and it's how these people deal with such emotions which. bring to the · forefront many issues. The skit deals with issues concerning sexuality, abortion, racism, war, homosexuality, AIDS, relationships. raising children, child abuse, and drugs, just to name a few. Obviously ,this production is going to hit home with .everyone for such matters are what many Unioll students are either addressing or dealing with at this present time. From the innoce11ce of children playing \ring around ihe rosey\ to the Vietnam Memorial Wall, this play brings to light the kinds of issues · we forget to aclmowledge·but do .experience. As individuals we get l()st in our own problems and lose our objectivity, but this play helps us see through our blinded vision. The play has no set and all the char~cters wear black because the emphasis is on th-e \emotion\ of each skit. Tonight it begins at 8 P.M. in the Nott Memorial and it is rutming through until this Saturday, Nov. 4; and during the following week, it is playing from Nov. 8-11, Check out what is an eye opening experience and see \Before The Butterflies\. .a - - - - - - - - CLIP 'N' SAVE-- - .... - -- ; I I I WRUC 8.97 I I I I I 1 H.ere are the top plays of ~e week.. No,, they haven't so~ved ~orld peace, won the I Senes, or taken a shower wtth Debbte Gtbson. Then agmn, th1s groupo' 8.97 I haven't smoked anything white, followed Sirhan Shirhan, or were responsible for I I much of the wickedness in the world eithei. Listen to 'em, snap your fingers, and I tune in next week. Thank you. I I ARTIST TITLE LAB:t;L I I 1 1. Poi Dog Pondering Poi Dog Pondering Texas Hotel 1 I 2. The Mighty Lemon I 1 Drops Laughter Sire 1 I 3. The Sugarcubes Here Today, Tomorrow, I I Next Week Elektra I I 4. The Alarm Change I.R.S. I I 5. Kate Bush Love And Anger Columbia I I I I 6. The Primitives Pine R.C.A. I 1 7. The Psych. Furs 12\ \Should God Forget\ Columbia 1 I 8. Flesh For Lulu Plastic Fantastic Beggar's Banquet I I I 8.97 The Young Fresh I Fellows This One's For The Ladies Frontier 1 I t· Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week: I I I \Funny· Vibe (remix)\ ;.. Living .Colour I ( . . . - - .. - .. - ... - - -- -·- - - ........ - - - - .... -· ..,.1

CQNCORD1ENSIS, N6vember 2, 1989 Page 17 ·~ ' . !· • . ·~ .. --.-- .. - .~ '·.. . •, ·---~ .. ~_ ·_ -~. .... . ' . \' .. . ,.• ARTS & ENTE,RTAINMENT Arcosanti: An U·rban laboratory? By ANNE CARL Arcosanti, a project of the nonprofit Cosanti Foundation designed: by Italian Arclritect Paolo Soleri, is the subject of today's lecture at Union.- The lecture, sponsored by the Art Department, is scheduled- for Thursday, November2. at4:30 p.m. in the College Ce11ter. Anyone interested in ,an alternative to urban sprawl or interested in the environment, in genetal, will also be interested in learning a:bou.t Arcosanti. . . Since 1970, thousands of students and professionals from all over the world have come to build this prototype Arc()logy (Architecture blending with Ecology) for 5,000 people, combining compact, energy- efficient urban structllfe with large-scale s~lar greenb().uses on 15 acres of a 4,()00 acre preserve in the Arb:ona desert. Arcosanti rises dramatically from the basalt mesas of Arizona's central plateau, halfway between .Flagstaff and Phoenix at 3.800 ft. George Weiss, the Director ·<>f Operations and Construc- tion, will present tb.e slide show and: lecture. The title of his preselltati()n. is \Afcosanti: An Urball Laboratory~\ and will cover different .aspects of the general philosaphy behind and building of Arcology. BecaU$e ()[ the nature of the projec1, it incorporates- con- cepts appealing to artists, sociologists, environmenta~ lists. phiL()SOJJhets, futurists, and architects alike. Archi- . tecture :2nd urban planning · mark just a beginning to the strains oi thinking the.project provokes. A Harvard Business School graduate with a. Master's of Civil Engineering· from Cornell, lte combines years of experien\e in construction with a unique outlook abo11t what it means t.() btdld a futuristic, environmen~aUy conscious walking city in the desert. One of the main urban problems Arcosanti addresses is urban sprawl. Think about the typical i\tnerican ci•y:. most devote aoout 1/3 of tbeit total land area to the automobile infrastme-ture (LA is closer to l/2}. 1-n Other words, \expressways driveways, back roads and parking lots take up space. Commuting on them wastes time. Polluting on them wastes our ecosystem. What is the purpose? There does not seem to be any purpose in and of itself, since commuting seems to be a necessary evil in getting from one place to another; P~olo Soleri docs net claim that Ar-cosanti is now or even will be a utopia; however, ArcoS811ti does off\if a cqmnion sense ~lternative to typical urban waste. Three buzz words at Arcosanti are \complexity \frugality\ and \miniaturization.\ By designing a walking city which integrates working and living spaces. and incorporates a means for passive solar energy and recycling int<> its very design, Soleri works to dem()nslrate and prove the most tangible kind of environmental. consciollSncss: addressing s6me of the most typical and most detrimental of the problems the enviroqment faces today Y~ith .a viable alternative. AMERICAN PICTURES . ;-' - --··' Thursday November 9th 7:00pm 88016 'Free· Admission_ Sponsored by: Students for Political Awareriess & Action ARCOSANTI A.NNOUNCEMENT Slide Show and Lecture on \ARCOSANTI: AN UR)3AN LABORATORY ?\ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 19B9 4:30PM ARTS BUILDING, 2nd FLOOR, ROOM 215 ARCOSANTI is a futuristic, environmentally conscious city in the desert. Designed by · Italian Architect Paolo Soleri, A,RCOSANTI is an urban laboratory located in Arizona where the fundamental tenets of ARCOLOGY{architecture and ecology) are to be tested. ARCOLOGY concerns itself with resources in tne environment and the evolution of the human spirit. The-slide show and lecture will be presented by George Weiss, the Director of Operations and Construction. The presentation will cover different aspects of rhe .general philosophy behind the development of ARCOLOGY. Sponsored by the Department of the Arts Union College 'LAST CHANCE IDOL Deadline: Nov. (j I B·ox 0123 Please Submit _and get Recognition!!

CQNCORDIENSIS, NQvt!mber 2, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Alliance offering support, friendship and conversation.· • · Submit name and phone no. in sealed envelope to Union GLBA, Student Activities Office, 4th. Floor CC. · Someone from the group will contact you. All names and meeting times are kept confidential. You need not feel alone anymore. Newman Club Activities Tuesday Night Supper • November 7th at 5 p.m. All Union students are invited to use meal card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC205 for supper and conversation with Professor Hugh Foley, Psychology Department who will lead a discussion on \How Effective is Union at Energizing Its Students?\ Folk G:-oup - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the _ music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass :please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rebearse. Tutoring - Union College students can be used to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools. Please contact Slleila Humiston 372- 9231. Student Sales Represen- tative for innovative T-shirt • and casual clothing manufacturer and distributor. • Work for youtself- make your •• own hours, earn col1ege e~pense_s, sales incentives •. free '1· trtps, discounts, personabzed designs for your college or · · create your own. Only a limited number of positions · available. Call or write . immediately for more info. · This opportunity is offered ' only to a limited number of . students depending on size of college. Dy-e-Mensions · Unlimited, Corporate .offices: 27 I:ndian Drive, Claredon Hills, IL 60514, 312-920- 9797; Manufacturing & Ware house: 1908 N. Lin view. #15, Urbana, IL 61801, 217- 337-6442. Part-time maintenance position, 10 hours/wk. Incl11des cleaning interior of Church, setting up chairs and • tables for programs, putting · out trash for weekly collection, . and sweeping walkway entrances. $4.00/hr, with possible raise to $5.25/hr. Jan. 1, 1990~ If interested, please call Fr. James Clarke, St. Andrew's Church, Scotia, 374- 8391. Joalln's Hallmark Shop • 356-5627 from 5 to 9, 2666 Hamburg St., Rotterdam. Person to work nights 3 to 9. counter work. retailing, must be 18 years of age. Blue Print Reader Position available for someone with skills in blue print reading and take off work - Hours 8 AM to 4:30 PM. Contact Rollie Keith. Salary negotiable. Phone 518-783-7411. Sales position - Intimate apparel and adult novel items. For further info., please contact Jordan Fox, Fox & Co., P.O. Box 779, Douglaston, NY 11362-9991. As a campus representa- tive you will be responsible for placing advertising materials on:· bulletin boards and working on tnatketing prognims for clients such as American Express, IBM, Ford and campus recruiters. Part- · time work, choose your own · hours. No sales. Call or write for more info to: American Passage Network, 6211 W. Howard St., Chicago, IL 60648. 1-800'-221-5942. Student to clean ranch type home located on McClellan St. once every two weeks or as necessary. Wages are negoti- able. Please contact 372-6311. Part-time sitting - flexible hours - own transportation needed. Location - Niskayuna. One child. Please contact 377- 5527. B a sketbaU Coaches Needed -For grades' 4, 5 and, 6. Please call Mary Nowak 346-5554. Weekly C~o,ssword· Bible Study and Holy liour - On Tuesday, November 7tli in the Chapel of Catholic & Family Community Services from 7:30 to 8:15p.m. there will be a study of the Gospel of Matthew, followed by a floly Hour which will conclude with Benediction at 9:15 p.m. All are welcome. - I CLASSIFIEDS Student Employment - Off Campus: Word processors - Editing, typing/word processing and proofreading reports and other clerical duties. Word processing experience preferred but will · train qualified person. Typing' . speed of. 5()wpm required. I Hours are flexible. 1 llllf~» v-.o.-- ::::ierk • Audit time/expense repo~f,>and input financial entries and source documents into computer.' Must have ability to input a mtmmum of 10,000 keystrokes per hour (keypd and text). Hours flexible; Contact Dunn Geoscience Corp; @ 458-1313, 12 Metro Park Road, Albany, NY 12205. \VOTER'S VOICE'\ ACROSS 1 Action word 5 Con9ressional ha11gout 10 Digs 14 Charles Lamb'~ pen name 15 __ Adams: Landscape JJhotographer · 1 6 Authentic 17 Israel's airline 18 William Butler-. _: Irish poet 19 \My Friend-.\: 50's . movie ZO Campaign get-togethers 22 New York City political machine 24. Approves 25 Book of the Bible 26 Candidate roster 29 _Angeles: Bradley's town 30 Lamp gas 34 Towel word 35 \I'll take the ___ road\ 36 \Tennis_?\ 37 ·caesar's greeting 38 rv political discussions 40 Born 41 Between Carter and Bush 43 Squealer 44 TO remain undecided 45 Sea eagles 46 Modern platters 47 Woeful expression · 48 Mr. Preminger and Graham 50 Political officeholder 51 Undertaker's vehicles 54 Vote counts By Gerry Frey 58 Yin and _: Chinese philosophy 59 Taxi's clock 61 Cad 62 Italian city 63 Political platforms 64 Ms. BancroH 65 Dakota indians 66 Trombonist's nickname 67 Rave's partner DOWN 1 Swerve 2 Ms. Fitzgerald 3 Iranian .coin · 4 Votes 5. Rutherford B. __ 6 George Washington& 7 Amer. 8 Spats 9 Ms. Manchester and others 10 Pre-election election 11 Age: Latin 12 \_. the totpedos\ 13 Slaughter 21 Adlai's oppo11ent 23 Ways and_· _Committee 25 President Taft et at 26 Portion 27 Voting IJooth implement 28 \We_._~ independent nation\ 29 Tennis stroke 31 D. 0. A. 32 Upside down: ~ wds 33 Street people 35 Mr. Bernstein 36 AI the age of 38 Dares to: Archaic Part-time n~anager needed 4-6 hours a nigiU - 1/2 day · Saturday from Dec. 1st to April 4th/ Indo~>r Athletic Facility. Ability to r.un cash re.g\ister.. Location, Malta Contact, Howard Charbon· neau, Jr.899-226&. fiabysittiDg - L-ooking for . student or 2 tc rotate - 2 · childrea 10 mont!Js and 3 1/2 years • $3.00/hr. For futher info. please call377 .-3092. · IBM Ca1Jlpgs Rep. needed. Promote special student deals on IBM PS/2's on an four campus' of Union University. Please call Mark Welcome at 377~7853 for more infonnati.on. A free gift just for calling plus. raise up to $1700 in only 10 days. . Student groups, fraternities ancl soro,jties needed for marketing . project on .campus. For details · plus a free gift, group officers · Cal11-800-9S0-8472, ext. 0. G & ll liard ware, 1 7 2 9 . · .,--~ ........ ~-~ ......... -~­ Union St. needs students for sales clerk, .stock etc. For · · furthet info call Mr. Sullivan @ 3'74-~912. Passport Photos while you · wait. Photo video transfer. 924 Crane St. 374\9217. Student interested in Cruise Ship Jobs - Hiring babysitting 3 girl5 from Nov. Men .. Women summer/year 14th t11ru 19th. 4 ·PM to 7 AM round. Photographers, tour over 11ight. All day Sat. & guides, recreation personnel. Sun. $50.00 per day. Please excellent pay, plus free travel. contact 346-2691 mear College. :: Caribbean, Hawaii, Bahamas. Stud emt interested i n sitting 4 children·- Hours 10:30 PM to 7:30 AM. Location Union ,st. Stockade. area. Please' contact 377-5774 · leave message for Virginia. Need possibly.· 3 to 5 studen1s packing; African and Asian ftandcraft. Preparing fo.r shipment. Lo.c.ation Near Centtal Park. Overseas -cpnnection. Cont2ct 377-0231 or 377-8901. 39 Comes before \'MANIA\: Island near Australia 42 Washington anll Busn 44 Vote 46 lioVJard __ 47 S.mashed: Sian~ 49 Kelly Girts 50 Tl\is could be free or blank 51 fl!lartha :Actress South Pacific, Mexico. ·can Now! Call refundable 1-200- • 736-0775 ext; 8442. Position A vail able in a downtown mental health agency operating residential homes for adults struggling with mental illness. Ideal for •students. Weekends/and or overnights. Paid sleep time $5.16/hr. Send resume or phone for application 374- . 8424. Mohawk Opportunities in· Mental Health, 218 · Nott Terrace, Schenectady, NY \12307. 52 loosen 53 Feed the kitty 54 Split 55 Ms. Barret 56 Georgia's Senator Sam 57 let it stan~t Editor's remark . 60 Asian language ©1989 GFR Associates All Ri~:rhts Reserved P.O. Box 9104. Schene'\ctady. N.Y. 12309 11/89 ..

CONCORVIENSIS, November 2, 1989 CLASSIF1EDS . . . . . PERSONALS· Deb .. . Happy Birthday! Student wan·ted to d~ Don't get \webbed\ this cotling and data entering for. a weekend! uational study of Physician . , Assl:s~ants. Would prefer ; · ~-~-~----­ students with some course work in quantitative research methods, but experience is not · required. We will :train. St11dents who can work over the winter break are also preferred. Salary is $5 per hour. Please call Terry Weiner at X6305 or come to 301. Bailey Hall. Would you like to offer Discover --·Credit Cards? Are yoll available for only a few hours/week? If so, call 1- 800-932.:0528, ext. 3. We'll pay you as much as $10.00/hr. Only ten positions available, S pdng Brea·k 1990 lll'dividual or student organization needed to promote (}ur Spring. Break trips. Earn money, ftee trips and valuable work experience. Apply Now! • Call Inter-campus Programs: 1- goo-327-6013. Saack Dar Help Needed! ?tease contact the Bowlers ciub, 1210 Troy Schenectady Road, Latham, NY 785-1598. Word Processor For Sale: Like a computer but much easier. Real Cheap!!! Call Dina :>46-2811 after 5 P.M. Sporty- You're an unllsual housemate, but I think you're. the beans. Oh, J, watch out for the little men on the white horses~ ... A.B., J.B., :R.:&:. - We have a phone, fmally[ Call us at 381\4651. Well Gene, tell 'em what he's won. '· Jam~B- I hope you're having fun jn Yorkl1 miss~_you! . Love, Wendy. Liza Palmer- Are you still alive? I hope so. I · love and miss you! Wtite! Love, wendy . Michele Lerner - Nojigs in ttaly? Do one for me! Love, Wendy Becky Bam- Thanks for the letter, etc. I miss you! Stay for winter term. Love, Weridy - Q- you vis.it to JFK is rigbt around the comer. S, K. Kand I miss you terribly and I promis~ I only eat blackberries. Ycch. -B Lisa, Marni, and Wendy - 10 weeks is too long without you guys! I miss you very much md thanks for aU your let~ers. Luckily in Italy the rules don't change! Keep the letters coming ... Lots of love, Courmey Mr. Nik:olis~ • I have woken ·up and smelled ! · the coffe, and I do enjoy the aroma. Discourse on class outside: Prof: \What's .it like o11tside?\ Student: \Wide open, no roof, lots of trees ... \ Where is the Tracey Room? Spin the Pepper and The Zeltzer. :Seltzer!!! .._ To theJAP: Can't we just hire a maid? Then l can watch TV or sleep .all daY· Cath- We've'become as one, when you st!Ib your toe, I hurt. NO EXIT by Erik Andresen Mami, Lisa and Wendy. _ I love all of yol,lf letters along with their surprises believe it or not, I've only been tasting. I · love and miss you guys am;l December really isn't that far . away ... i Love, Courtney , · Doctor- · Please come make a house call, •, I'm suffering from an aching · · heart. Y cch. LoveB Leslie M. and Amy 5: Thank you for sending us a message across the sea! Italy is amazing, b\lt we miss you I . . I both. Keep wntmg. 'Love Suzanne & Courtney Cltery 1 & Cave, Can't wait until Satwday Night! Love;Dina. Cause it cuts like a Swiss Knife. Deltas: Good luck with Rusbl We're thinking of you and miss you all very much! Love Renee, Becky, Courtney. Nicole and Stacey To The Immortal One: Hope you enjoy The Halloween. Don't do anything I · won't. You Know Who. P.S. At least I hope you do, My Lord. Mercy Buckets, Mclissia, For 10/28 Brother Inch, Brother Inch, Brother Inch, Something to tell us? Brad, It's been a great t.h(ec years. Happy Anniversary on Oct. 31. May there be so many more. Love. Pam Ben: . Uive .on Union Street and on . Monday night I heard some :Hair 'IJesigns tBy ... !Afil(l(i WALK.;JNS WELCOME 1689 Van Vranken Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 NIKKI DiMATIEO CARM DiMATTEO 370-5238 Page 19 strange noises .. .I was just curious ... Lina Robin, Fr<>m across the macs, our eyes met, .• Smile Sweetie! Lina ToBabyK, Have an extra special one. SHA- Love If I could tum back time ... why bother? To everyone I know hrc on this campus of ours - Happy HaHoween! SHA-Iovc P.S. Better late than never! Symposium: The effects ofbmgging on your romantic life. Happy Birthday Carl- From International House. E- Yoll Know What? Rob and Jeff- -E We never did play the dating game. Jeopardy was fun!! JAP Clips. Love, Stcph and Andrea Hey E, R, D- Let's discuss it in the Green Room!!! Penelope- This much FUN should be illegal, But I like it. Learn to sleep and study. Don't see bad mQvies especially while on the C.C. roof. -Your Materialistic & Chauvalli.stic He Friend. Hey Jim- Lookin' Pretty Trippy! -Tammy Linda. Audry and Alysia, Boston was amazing! You guys are the best. Hopefully s()metime this year I'll visit yollT room. Love,Jen Who a IS John Galt? ~ I• \\' -'·. ~·

Page !& CONCORDIENSIS, November 2; .1989 tte UN:ION COLLEGE THEA THE PROQUCTION • NOV~ 2-4,8-11, 1989 • 8:00PM • N'OTT MEMORIAL • 370--6153

. CONCOitDIENSIS, No~em/)er 2~ 1'989 Pnge 21 . Qtuncnr .htens is SPORTS Lady Harriers . ·Compete In Championships Union's Women Finish Soccer Season At 4-9-7 By JRL This past weekend tbe women's Cross Country team traveled to Binghamton to compete in the 1989 New York State Championships. The championships, held every year at this time, attracted 18 women's XC ,teams from across the state. This was the largest field in the nine years of t:hemeet. · The race took place in a shroud of fog at SUNY Binghamton's challenging 5K (3.1 mile) course. Leading the Union contingent was post grad Lynne Erdman. In her first season of Cross Country, Lynne has done exceptionally well in estab1ilshing herself as a top runner in NY state. She placed 22nd in the race, with a time of 20:37.9. Finishing next for Union was sophomore Sandy Anselmenl. Sandy has consistently been a team leader all season through her experience and example. She took 46th place, completing the course in 21:44. Freshman Dawn Harrington was Union's third runner. Despite some injt!fies earlier in ' . the season, Pawn has contributed much to tile team. She nabbed 7lst place with a time of 22:42.9. First yeat runner Lauren Karp was next in - 78th place. She ran_ a very strong last mile to bring it in with 23:08.6. Jen Robbins, a freshman, ran close to Lauren throughout the race. She also had a strong finish to take 83rd with a timeof23;18.7. 1 unior Denise McMillan was Union's sixth runner. She finished the race in 86th place with a time of 23:28.9. Jen Regan, the only senior on the team, came next, placing 90Ut with a time of 23:55.Z. It must be said thauhis team is very young and inexperienced. Only three of the seven who ran on Saturday have ever run XC before. However they now have tile experience of running in a championship race.. This experience should prove beneficial as we gear tap for the season's last two races. This coming weekend the team will compete at the University of Rochester Invitational The following weekend will be \the Biggie\ as the women run in the NCAA Qualifiers; Courtesy of S,ports Information \VIlile the women's soccer tean at Union College didn't achieve iiS unspoken goal of a .5()(). season, first-year head coa~b, Sue Zaloom was plased and impressed with what she saw ~is year. Solid defense, geed goaltending, and hard W()tk. were the trademarks of .thi5 season's squad. However, the :No~ 1 priority of Zaloom's recruiting list is a goal scorer. \We had a lot of trouble putting the ball in the .net,\ state:d Zaloom. \If we had one or two players that we could {f you are an Engineering or Computer Science mator looking for a challenging career with professional and personal growth, Link Flight Simulation Division of CA£ .. Link Corporation wants to meet you. count on to score from 25 yards. and in, we would have picked up a few more victories· this season. Overall, though, I'm pleased with what we accomplished. This is a team that never quit, never got down, and never, ever blamed each other when things didn't go our way. We're losing just three players so l know I':ll have a ~Qlid foundation in which to build upon.\ Two of the \youngsters\ to which Zaloom refers are sophomore Debbie Danforth and freshman Courtney Seed. Each of tl1em made· their collegiate debut (Danforth did not play as a freshman) by tying for the team lead in goals scored with four. Danforth won the scoring title,. 7-5, as she contributed three assisiS while Seed had one. In any case, they are just two of the 18 women who earned varsity letters and will be eligible Lo return next season. The Lady Dutchmen will graduate the services of senior Vicky Wise, Missa Blake, and Kim Stevens. Wise and Blake are four-year lclterwinners while SLevens earned three letters. ON,..CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 8, 1989 Information Session - November 7, 1989 Located in upstate New York, Link is the worldwide industry leader in the design, development and integra- tion of advanced simulation and training systems that teach pilots to fly without ever leaving the ground. We can offer you professional challenge and the oppor- tunity to work on some of the most sophisticated simulation technology in the world. For further information, call or stop by the campus Placement Office. Be sure to see our video and company profile booklet while you're there. · With Macintosh you can even do this: _ Macintosh\ computers have always been easy to-illle.But they've never been this easyto owr1. Presenting The Madntosh Sale. Through-January 31, you can save hundreds .ofdollars on a variety ofApple\ Madntoshcomputers and peripherals. So nowthere's no reason to settle for.an ordinary PC. With The Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computet 'Without spending alot more money. •• The Macintosh Sale. Now through]anuary31 Union College Bookstore College Center File .. New Open .•• Close ............................................................. - .... Print.... ~P ............................................................. Quit 8€Q \ ....

I .>- Page 22 CONOORDlENSJS, November 2, 1989 Qtnncnr:ntensis .SPORTS Skating Dutchmen Look to Build on Past Success Running :outchm.en Face the ·Heat ef the Bronx By ANDREW SEEWALD When Tim Cregan took a lead pass from Terry Campbell and pulled the puck around and past RPI goalie Steve Duncan, it was the climax to a great game that marked the beginning of some great things to come. It was fitting that a freshman would score the winning goal in overtime of that most exciting of season openers, because it would be the freshmen·-through their sheer numbers if nothing else-- that would boost the Union hockey team to their best season in years. The season ended almost as dramatically but with a different outcome when Babson defeated the Dutchmen 3-2 in the first round. of the NCAA Playoffs. The Beavers came back to tie Union 1-1 in the final seconds in tile first game of that series the night before. The senior goaltender Ron Kinghorn, who as a junior was named to the Titan AU- American second team, was in net for both of those games. Kinghorn played in all but one game last year, posting a 19-7- 2 record with a 2.69 goals against average. Despite his outstanding season. he said that \It leaves a bad taste in your mouth to lose like that.\ This year the Dutchmen shou1d even improve on last year's 19·8-2 mark that also included victories over Elmira, Merrimack, and Hamilton (twice). When Union started the season with a long string of home games, tlle fans were getting their firsi look at the team that featured a new coach, Bruce Delvcnthal, and a dozen new faces out on the ice, of whom there were regularly nine in ·the lineup on any given night. Only Scott Manley and Keith Robertson graduated from last year's ECAC West runner-ups, ·and all of the freshmen who played so well last year now have a full season under their belts. \The big difference between last year and this year,\ said Kinghorn, \is that now everyone knows the system, from fore-checking to back· checking to break-outs.\ Coach Delventhal said that it was important to keep things upbeat even in the face of some tough losses in the playoffs. \We're still young,\ he said. \With a veteran team you might do things differently, but we wanted to keep things positive. We want .to take what we learned last year and just get better.\ Sophomore center Craig Ferrero, who last year tied winger Bill Railton for the freshmen lead in scoring with 30 points, says that he is well aware of what be has learned. \I was never asked to play defense,\ he said. \I've always been able to score and that was enough for my coaches. Eut up bere, everyone can score, so you have to play defense.\ Coach Deiventhal, who won NCAA and ECAC titles in. four seasons as the head coach of RIT, was a defenseman when he played at Hamilton College and demands that all of his players take care of their own zone first. Even so, the Dutchmen should be able to get offensive production from all of their lines. The lines will vary from game to game depending. on who plays well, but here's a look at the lines as they figure to be at the start of the season. Ferrero teams with senior captain Guy Logan, who led the team with 22 goals last year, and sophomore right wing David Moody. A separated shoulder limited Moody to six games last year, in which he had two goals and an assist. In last Saturday night's preseason game against UConn, all three members of this line scored to lead the Dutchmen to a 4·2 victory. \We all have different talents to offer.\ said Ferrero of his line. \Logan works so bard, · Moody's got the best shot, and I can set the two of them up.\ Senior Dan Gould, whose 33 points placed him second on the team last year, will center Railton on the left and senior Marc Goguen, who had 21 points last year, on the right. Gould is an excellent playmaker while Railton works hard in the corners and Goguen is a force in front of the net. Terry Campbell,·the leading scorer from the past two years, enters his junior season in 16th place on the all-time Union scoring list. Campbell had 48 points last year and was recently elected as the other captain by his teammates. Terry's linemates are uncertain, but freshman Tim Mashie figures to start on his right, and sophomores Tim Cregan and Dalton Menhall have each seen time on the left side of that line. Sophomore center Mike Flanagan, who did not play on the varsity last year, is much improved and is playing between senior right wing Nick Baratoff and sophomore left wing Rick Clifford. Returning Talk Union Hockey Every Monday night a 8:30 P.M .. on \Skating Dutchmen Weekly\ WRUC 89.7 FM The Dutchmen Sports Network wings Darrell Gustafson, Phil McLaughlin, and Chris D'Orio also figure to sec j)Ienty of ' actioll. As for the defen~e~ senior Peter C&tier .is being teamed with sophomore ScCJtt Whit~ ney. As a freshman~ Whitney tied for second on tile team in plus/mi11us with a plu!;-}7. Juqi()r Brian Lucey is paired with sophomore Rick Burchill. a duo that has played very well in the p1eseason. The third pair consists of freshman Greg Eccleston and junior Bill Sedergren. Sedergren has been the leading scorer among the defensemen in both of his seasons, and Eccles~n; a tall, rangy playe:r, bas shewn good poise and puck \Carrying ability. Fresllman Greg Steele, slowed by a groim injury, :provides depth at defe11se. Backing up the defense is Kinghorn and an improved corps ·Of reserve net-minders. Sophomore Shayne White, who saw virtually no action last year, bas improved greatly over tlte summer and has been impres~i ve in the preseason. Freslllllan Jim Helkie has also played well, standiag up to make some big saves in the ·. UCon11 game. Freshman Jim Fitzhenry has also displayed some good skills. · \We•re real happy with the · depth at goaltender,\ said · Delvellthal. ''What a pleasure it is to bave three goalies playing · so well\ Delnnthal went on to especia.ll.y commend·Whiteand bis fellow classmates Burchill and Flanagan, wbo all saw limited or no action last year but who worked bard to ir.1prov~ their games over the summer. The Dutchmen start the season at Elmira on Tuesday night. Last year against the Soaring Eagles the Dutchmen came back from a .3-0 deficit after two periods to win 5·3 as Guy L<>gan scored a hat trick. Eight of Union,'s fi:rst eleven games will be on the road, and the Dutchmen do not have a home game while scbool is in session until January 13. But if the Dutchmen play as well as they did last year~ it wiU be worth tile wait. All tlie action of Skating Dutchmen hockey can be heard 011 WRUC 89.7 FM~ with broadcasts beginnillg a half hottt before game tirne. Also, tune in every Monda:y night at 8:30 P'M to talk with the players and coaches on \Skating Dutchmen Weekly.\ By B.T.M. It was a hot and steamy day in Van Cortland Park, the Bronx that is. It was the kind of day that sports writers and r:unners alike will talk about for yearS; or for a few days anyway. It was the kind of Saturday you come to expect in late August, not late October. The scene was set for one of the most exciting · and controversial Collegiate Track Conference Champipnships since the days of Jesse Owens . . . well, not really. OK, so the race wasn't that controversial, nor was it expected to be any more exciting than any other cross countr-y race can ever hope of being, but it sure was HOT! As the rest of Union College was waking up to a wonderfully warm ·day, the running Dutch,men were enroute to Van Cortland Park to begin a series of three post- seasonal meets. The 8 km (5 mi) course in the Bronx is a demanding course· which includes ·a devastating hill at - the 4 mile mark, affectionately calle<J \Cemetery Hill.\ I:n the heat of the city, the men's team did not fare ~ well as they would have liked. Regardless of the team's ninth place finish. Coach Herrington took a positive outlook on .the weekend, .stating that the results of this race would help to make adjustments for the next two weeks and beyond. Utlion's top finisher was· Mike Martinez who placed . 35th overal1. with a time ·Of 29: 12. Dirk Gunther was quick to follow in 39th place and a time of 29:43. Third for the D11tchmen was Greg Barrett in a time of 30:1·8. Jon Dubow and John Learned finished within four seconds of each ....... ~ther to r?und out Union's top ftv.e. Chns Ryan, Ed Dorsey, and Rich Zimbek all had strong finishes to complete the team. Next Weekend ·both the men's an<l women's x.c teams venture to Rochester for what hopes to be a fun and successful day. Field Hockey Ends S,eason. at 6-7-2. Courtesy of Sports Information William Smith tallied two late first half goals and added a third in the second half to hand Union a 3-0 defeat in the first round of the New York State field hockey championship last weekend. The loss concludes the Lady Dutchmen's season and left the team with a 6-7 ..J. record The inability to put the ball in the cage again spoiled a sparklin~ defensive effort by Union. The Lady Dutchmen were shut out six times this y~ and SC<?red just one goal in four other games. In all, Union scored just 15 gbals tliis season. While the La'dy Dutchmen, who have been inv.ited to the states, each of the last five seasons, Will be losing just three seniors off of this year's team. those three have been the heart and soul of the squad the past four years. Jeil Lyon, Ann Mulvaney, and Monica Zifcak have been the backbone of the team both on and off of the field. \You just can't measure the contributions that those three have made the last four years,\ sai-d ~ead coach Charlyn Ro'bert~ of her three captains. \Aside from their athletic and field hockey talents, they have been -excel1ent examples for everyone on the team to follow. The impact that they have made on t.be program will ~ felt for some time to come, l>nt they, as individuals, are going to be sorely missed.\ · Lyon,· a three-year letterwinner and starter i~ goal, .compiled a 29-11-2 record during her career. She allowed 39 .goals and recorded 277 goals in 43 games. Mulvaney is a four-year starter who was second team Ali-State and second team Mld· Atlantic All· American last year (this yeals all-star selections will come out around the first week of December). She has played forward, midfield, and back, and shows 20 po1nts on eight goals and a dozen assists for her cateet. · Zifcak is a four-year starter at defensive back. She was a frrst team AU-State and second team Mid-Atlantic All-American last year. Tune in to the Dutchmen Sports Network . Tuesday Night at 7 P.M. for the season opener of Union Hockey at Elmira WRUC 89.7 FM

CONCORDJENSfS, November~, 19'9 Page 23 o.tnucnrltiensis . SPORTS Union's Volleyball Squad Qualifies For State Event Mouth.ing Off .By SPORTS INFORMATION This week's Athlete of the Week is the volleyball team. For the first time in the history of the sport of W()mcn's volleyball at Union College, the team has qualified for the New York State Tournament. 'The 23-14 Lady Dutchmen are seeded 13th in the 16-team field. The 23 wins also set a standard for victories in a season surpassing the previous mark of 18. Volleyball became a varsity sport in 1975. The team only lost four players from last year's squad. While the.re is . no one outstanding player on the team, they blend together wllen on the court, to form a strong single unit. This is why the team has\ improv~d so much. There was no chemistry last season. \This is a dream team. I'm very proud of what this team has accomplished,.\ said fifth- year head coach B annie Gehling. \Teamwork bas been the key word in our season. We haven't had any superstars, but we'v.e had a good many super perfotmances from. everyone. This team backs each other up both on and off of the court. finishers in each pool, based on won-loss record, will advance to single elhnination tournament play to determine the state cbampionsbip. The round robin and elimination tournament will be two out of . ' ·- •..$'ft . :t.~ ' . ,. First row: Coach Gehling, Capt. Lisa Stillman, Kim Marra. Second row: Debbie·Durnas, Capt. Maggie Brush, Susie Smith. Third row: Bobbie Carroll, Capt. Debbie Berman, Sarah Dudzic, Keo Carlin and Jennifer Kim. other Union volleyball teams to follow.\ SUNY Geneseo will host the event this Friday and Saturday. The 16 teams will be divided into four pools. A round-robin tournament will be staged in each pool. The first two three games. Union will play fourth- seeded St.John Fisher (36-1) in its opener then take on No. 12 New Paltz (20-6); before playing fifth-ranked Rochester (18-14), in the opening pool. Men's Varsity Soccer Ends Mediocre Season By RON BIRNBAUM This past week, the Union Men's Varsity Soccer team summed up its '89 season with three finalliome games against North Adams~ Clarkson; and St. Lawrence. With intensity and durability, the Dutchmen were able to come away taking a tie, a loss, and a win at the final game. The Dutchmen finished with a 4-9-2 record; after these hard fought games. The game against North Adams was dominated by, for the most part, Union, and the Dutchmen had s~veral opportunities to score. The game was scoreless at the end of the second 'half a11d the teams went into overtime. Both sides had a few other opportunities to score, . including a shot by trnion's Adam Epstein. whicll was saved by theN. Adams goalie. Epstein also tried to cross-pass · a shot when striking toward goal, but no one was there to receive it. Union's defense played well, as goalie Paul Viviano saved a sbot two minutes into the secnd overtime period. Sophomore Don Hodson prevented a potential set-up on an overhand throw-in. The game ended with a final attempt by junior forward Dave Hass off a pass from Epstein, which went out and over the goal. The game ended in a 0-0- tie. Junior Eric Ream-an also played an excellent game. After the game. head coach Bob Magee commented that both teams ,played hard and with intensity and both teams had a plethora of opportunities to score. Everyone played well, as Union's cntrolled game contrasted the long kick -and- nm style of North Adams. The players wert} equally enthusiastic about the game. Head goalie Paul Viviano said, \I though.t we moved the ball well with some good com binatons; we just need stronger finishing. Defense is improving every day.\ In addition, junior midfielder Brett Miller said that, \ ... We're 3-2-2 in our last seven games, young. and still improving.\ In the next game, against Clarkson, neither team scored in the first half. With ten mi,nutes left, Viviano tnade two saves. Attempts by Union's Eric Cressman and Brett Miller were blocked by the Clarkson goalie, Jim Stalhopoulous. Soon after, freshman Dave Romeo had two chances to score on Union throw-ins, but he came up short. Several fouls on Union gave Clarkson control of the ball for the rest of the half, but they could not capitalize on their opportunities .. Ten minutes into the second half, things went well for Union. Frrshman Jed Nosal crossed to Epstein in front of the net and he put it in the right corner at 34:51. Several following shots by Clarkson went out. Brett Miller had two attempts during the half for Union, which got shots also by Mark Nadeau and senior Mike Kijak. However, with less than eight minutes left in the half, Clarkson's Smith Dunmore scored to tie the game at 1. Then, with 2:47 left, Dave Schultz scored off a rebound for Clarkson. The clock wound down and the score ended at 2-1, a Clarkson victory. According to Coach Magee, \It's a great disappointment to be ahead 1-0 and give up .a game with eight minutes left. We didn't play with .the intensity\' that was needed on defense, and in general to hold up a lead.\ Nosal added, \Arter they got a penalty kick, we lost a lot .of intensity. They seemed to score a lot because of our failure to clear the ball.\ The final home game against St. Lawrence was a victory. · Union controlled the whole game, with good combinations of the forwards passing to the midfielders. The team was especially strong in the second half as Adam Epstein's shet against the St- Lawrence goalie was blocked and freshman Dan Wilmont put in the rebound for a 1 ~o victory. With a young team, the prospect for good, solid soccer play next year is promisiQg. As one team player put it, \It's not if we won or lost, it's the friends we made.\ 'By ANDY 'BRAVER The events are many and the · ·images great, but my focus is grey, charcoal ;grey. Therefore, l have been unable t<> choose a central topic for this week's · installment, but rather have cllosen many different tidbits you might have missed or overlooked. So, again, I bring you a. few words from the wise as: well as a few wise words. The Oakland A's won th~ World Series th·is past weekend, and they did it in amazing fashion. They · dominated the San Francisco (] iants in every way itnaginable. But who cares. 1hey won the Series the day ~ey brought Rickey Henderson home. The A's G.M. Sandy A..lderson can thank the irneptitude of the Y ankce Brass f()r returning the World Series tOo Oakland for the first time since 1974. The New York braintrust, then-General Manager Syd Thrift and then- Manager Dallas Green, and unfortunately then~and-now­ owner George Steinbrenner, decided that they could notsign Rickey. who is eligible for free a~ency as I speak, and they wanted to make sure they got S()mething for him if they couldn't get his signature on a new contract. That is a bunch of Grade A, extra lean, and no cllolestcrol bologna, if that's pClssible. Rickey said he would re-sign with the Yanks and . eV'en named his: price, which was modest compared to the $3 million plus he is going to receive now, but the Yanks b!llked. The Yankees also rn entioned Rickey's lackadaisical play as a reason f()r trading him~ but how could he play hard on a team embroidered (sic) in constant controversy and with Andy Hawkins as its top starting pitcher? I don't know either. .And one more thing-- when the Yankees originally obtained Rickey from the A's back in 1984???????, they traded Jay Howell, Tim Birtsas, Jose Rijo,Stan Javier, and Eric Plunk to get him. Rickey is j11st as good~ if not better, tOOay, but the Bronx Bombers got Luis Polonia, Greg Cadaret, and, guess who, Eric Plunk, for Rickey this time around. I don't get it. The Yankees migllt as weU have given the A's the players and t()ld them to keep Rickey in 1984. They didn't win anything with him, and they certainly aren't going to win anything without him. That way, there w~uld be no .questions and no embarrassment, and think of how much money George could have saved. Saving is something all f()otball players and coaches across the nation, from pee wee t<J high school to the pros, have to think long and hard about. In the past two weeks, tke careers of two young men came to a screeching halt. San Francisco 49-er safety Jeff Fuller injured his neck two Sundays ago whle tackling New England Patriot's running back John Stephens. Fuller has lost some movement in his right arm and there is doubt as to whether h~ will ever regain it. However, he is lucky compared to Mississippi's 20- yearMold free safety Roy Lee 'Chuckie' Mullins, who is listed in serious condition after suffering a paralyzing neck injury in a game against Vanderbilt Mullins received a fractured-dislocation of some vertebrae in his neck when he tackled Vanderbilt receiver Brad Gains and is now paralyzed from the neck down. The injuries suffered by Fuller and Mullins arc only two but they remind us of the mortality and helplessness of each and every person who plays football. Tile pads and helmets arc not enough. Just ask Fuller and Mullins. One of these injuries sbould make people think, but two in one week should cause a debate. Is there a way to save the careers, or even save he lives of football players? Are the risks of playing football worth benefits, and is there nothing that can be done to increase ·the protection of the players? These are questions which need to be answered. Another question waiting to be answered is whether certain games should even be played. Just ask the players of Lane College: I am sure they are asking themselves the same question. They gave up 10 I points to Central State in under 49 minutes and failed to score a point of their own. Why in the world was this game played in the frrst place? Come on. the score was 60-0 at halftime. But what I really do not understand is why Central State coach Billy Joe left his starters in tl1e game in the third quarter. In the first half, Central State quarterback Henderson Mosely ran for three touchdowns and passed for scores of 5. 11. 53 • 22, 15 and 4 yards. Why did he start the third quarter? Coach Joe said of his team and the lopsided victory: \They caught us when we were hot. When that happens we put some big numbers on the board. We didn't try to do it. The guys • just got hot and things started happening;\ Yeah, right, there was nothing to do but run up the score. At least when Houston scored 95 points against SMU a few weeks ago, coach Jack Pardee took quarterback Andre Ware out after the first half. where he threw for .over 500 yards and six touchdowns. It was their backup quarterback who threw for four touchdowns in the second half, not Ware. And to top it off, the line in Las Vegas had Houston favored by 59 ponts. I think the only smart move made in the Central State gatne was when the Lane College head coach conceded with 11:26 remaining in the fourth quarter. But what I want to know is why it took so long. The game was over before it began, just like the World Series. \'t .•

·.c\' The men's XC .team travelled to the Bronx and raced In Van co.rtland park. Art·icle on P. 18 Union remained second_ ln the polls after defeating Gettysburg 39\'0 to raise their' .reco.rd to 8·0. Crew Team End$ Season With Strong Showing By ROBERT STOPPACHER This past weekend the Union College Rowing Association closed up a productive fall rowing season at the Head of the Fish Regatta. -As the morning fog finally lifted off Saratoga Lake, the eleven participating crews prepared for a full day of racing. With strong crews from Albany, Skidmore, Lafayette, Vermont, Buffalo., and Vassar in attendance, Union had their work cut out for them. The novice women's eight began a victorious day by placing third in their event. Beating teams from Buffalo and Vennont, to name a few, show great promise for the spring season and for future years. Led by junior coach Tammy Tibbetts, the novice women, in only their second race, have proven to be an important presence. In the novice men's eight race, the Union Oarsmen demonstrated success equal to that of their female counterparts. They solidly d~feated all opponents by finishing well ahead of their nearest competitor. Along wilh the colorful 'megadoo' t-shirts, the novice men brought a well deserved first place plaque back to the Union boathouse. As the spring-like afternoon continued, the two Union varsity boats prepared for their competitions. In one of .their best showings thus far, the women's varisty eight passed 2 other crews enroute to a second place finish. In addition to-their strength and ability, the women exhibited well earned second place ribbons. The final race of the day was · the men's open eight. Of the I eleven competing crews, Union~s varsity men's eight finished very respectably. In a race in which first and fifty place were separated by only 30 seconds, the Union men barely missed Top Three placement and finished fifth, only 7 seconds behind third place Skidmore. All in all, Head Races in Schenectady, Albany, Boston and Saratoga demonstrated Union Crews' consistent progress throughout the fall season. More importantly, Union's success should carry over into an even more prosperous spring season. SPORTSWEEK . Saturday, November 4 Football vs. Norwich Hockey at Princeton Swimming - Union Relays Cross Country at Rochester Sunday, November 5 J.V. Hockey vs. Phil. Flyers Tuesday, November 7 Hockey at Elmira Wednesday, November J.V. Hockey vs Mohawk Valley 8 1:30 7:30 1:00 1:00 7:30 3:30 November 2,. 1989 Dutchmen Trounce Gettysburg to Move to 8-0 By ANDREW SEEWALD and DAVE SACHAR After a slow start, two · turnovers in its first two possessions, the Dutchmen were able to shake off the effects of a seven hour bus ride, and went on to amass 558 total yards enroute to a five- touchdown outburst and a 39-0 victory over the Gettysburg Bullets last Saturday aftemoon. The win improved the Union's record to 8~0-0 and ups their two-season win streak to 10 straight. It was the fourth straight romp for the Dutchmen. who have allowed only nine points over that span. It was also the team's second straight shutout.. Sophomore quarterback Brett Russ had another terrific day for the Dutchmen, completing 12 of 18 passes for 186 yards. He threw for one touchdown while running in another. But it was senior tailback Ryan Mason who stole the show offensively, as he ran for 180 yards on just 16 carries. · This m(lSt recent performance by Mason brought his season rushing total to 873 ,Yards, as he bi(ls to become .the first 1,000 yard rusher of the decade forUnion .. Head Coach Al Bagnoli credits Mason's success to the offensive line, the other running backs, and of course to the big tailback himself, who has been punishing opposing secondaries all' season. \When you have a big back like that who's not getting hit until he gets into the secondary, of course he's .going to run people over and get some yards,\ said Bagnoli. \And it helps that we can rest him because of the other people we can bring in.\ As a team, the Dutchmen amassed the huge totals of 356 yards on 56 rushes. \We knew we'd be able to tun the ball,\ Bagnoli said, \but we didn't know we'd be able to nm it for 356 yards. It's hard to know with .a team you've never played before. Films can be misleading.\ The turning point of the ballgame came during Union's third possession. After squandering their· first two possessions with successive . turnovers, the Dutchmen took over on their own 28 following a punt and drove 71 yards on 10 plays. Facing 4th and 1 on the Gettysburg 1, junior fullback Tom Lombardoni found his way into the end zone for a 6-0 Union lead. The Dutchmen would power their way to scores on their next four consecutive possessions, shredding a porous Gettysburg defense. The Bullets dropped to 2-5-1. Union combined their running game with a passing game that gained 1~3 yards. . For the season, the Dutchmen are aYeraging 209.5 yards per game on the groun~ and 193.1 yards in the air, a balance that is rare at the Division III level The 39 points that Union scored were a season high, but as it turned out, the Dutchmen wouldn't need all Lhose points, as their ferocious defense simply shut down the Bullets. Standouts included senior strong safety Bob Anderson who had 4 tackles and assisted on 5 others, junior tackle Brian Faria who had 4 tackles and 2 assists, and senior defensive end Greg Hallas, who finished with 4 tackles~ 3 assists, and 3 sacks. 0 \ • The Dutchmen return to Frank Bailey Field for tlteir final two games against N:orwich this Saturday and against Hainilton the following Saturday .. The Dutchmen beat both of those teams last year, but are not loolQng past them this _year. even as Union remains prominent in the rankings. \Our <lestiny is in our own handS,\ said Bagnoli. ''We can't look past anyone. We can't worry about die rankings. If we win these last two games, they can't keep us out of the playoffs.\ For those of you ·that do ,worry about the rankings, Union has been running a close second to Cortland State in the NCAA Eastern Poll, the Lambert/Meadowlands Poll, and the Sports Channel PolL Cortland also improved to 8-0. but it will be interesting to sec if the Dutchmen puJI ahead in the rankings because Cortland won by a narrow 22-20 score over Canisius. • • • This Saturday will be the third meeting between Norwich and Union. Norwich won 14-3 in ·1926, and last year in Vermont the Dutchmen outlasted the Cadets 10-8. Norwich is .2-5·1 and has lost its last five games. St.. Lawrence beat the Cadets .38-14 last week. Nonetheless, Coach Bagnoli warns tha~ \These military schools are always physically tough teams.\ If you can't make it to Saturday's 1:30 p.m. start, tune in to WRUC 89.7 FM for all the coverage including an interview with Coach Bagnoli starting at 1:00. Come Out and Support The Undefeated Football Team This Saturday As The Teani Faces Norwich At 1:30 P.M.

The men's XC team travelled to the Bronx and raced 11:1 Van Cortland park. Article on P. 18 Union remained second In the polls after defeating Gettysburg 39s0 to raise their ,record to 8·0. Crew Team Ends Season With Strong Showing By ROJ3ERT STOPP'ACHER This past weekend the Union College Rowing Association closed up a productive fall rowing season at the Head of the Fish Regatta. As the morning fog finally lifted off Saratoga Lake, the eleven participating crews prepared for a full day of racing. With strong crews from Albany, Skidmore, Lafayette, Vermont, Buffalo, and Vassar in attendance, Union had their work cut out for them. The novice women's eight began a victorious day by placing third in their event. Beating teams from Buffalo and Vermont, to name a few, show great promise for the spring season and for future years. Led by junior coach Tammy Tibbetts, the novice women, in only their second race, have proven to be an important presence. In the novice men's eight race, the Union Oarsmen demonstrated success equal to that of their female counterparts, They solidly defeated all opponents by finishing well ahead of their nearest competitor. Along with the colorful 'megadoo' t-shirts, the novice men brought a well deserved fust place plaque back to the Union boathouse. As the spring-like afternoon continued, the two Uni()n varsity boats prepared for the.ir competitions. In one of tb.eir best showings thus far, tile women's varisty eight passed 2 other crews emoute to a second place finish. In addition to their strength and ability, tile women exhibited weiJ earne:d second place ribbons. The final race of the day was the men's open eight. Of the I eleven competing crews, Union's varsity men's eigllt finished very respectably. In a race in which first and fifty place were separated by only 30 seconds, the Union men barely missed Top Three placement and finished fifth, only 7 seconds behind third place Skidmore. All in all, Head Races in Schenectady, Albany, Boston and Saratoga demonstrated Union Crews' consistent progress throughout the fall season. More importantly, Union's success should carry over into an even more prosperous spring season. Co~IOl\''tOt-: .· filuwil. ,··\· Fall.· :·.Ia. •.··· .. ••NI . , ·Citampitll ·· · ··.·. Eigllt Man Flag Football Beta Theta p.i Six Man fiag Football Slgm(l Chi ~lue Co*Ree. Flag Football Fourth F1oor We&t Men's Soccer Phi Gamma Delta CO-Ree Sc)ecer Theta Delta Clli SPORTSWEEK Saturday, November 4 Football vs. Norwich Hockey at Princeton Swimming - Ur1ion Relays Cross Country at Rochester Sunday, November 5 J.V. Hockey vs. Phil. Flyers Tuesday, November 7 Hockey at Elmira Wednesday, November 8 J.V. Hockey vs Mohawk Valley 1:30 7:30 1:00 1:00 7:30 3:30 ' ·.. . ' ' . ' ' ' ' '. ' . . . . . . . ~ . . . ' . ' November 2, 1989 Dutchmen Trounce Gettysburg to Move to 8-0 By ANDREW SEEWALD and DAVE SACHAR After a slow start, two turnovers in its first two possessions, the Dutchmen were able to shake off the effects of a seven hour bus ride, and went on to amass 558 total yards enroute to a five- touchdown outburst and a 39-0 victory over the Gettysburg Bullets last Saturday afternoon. The win improved the Union's record to 8-0-0 and ups their two-season win streak to 10 straight. It was the fourth straight romp for the Dutchmen, who have allowed only nine points over that span. It was also the team's second straight shutout Sophomore quarterback Brett Russ had another terrific day for the Dutchmen, completing 12 of 18 passes for 186 yards. He threw for one touchdown while running in another. But it was senior tailback Ryan Mason who stole the show offensively, as he ran for 180 yards on just 16 carries. This most recent performance by Mason brought his season rushing total to 873 yards, as he bids to become the first 1,000 yard rusher of the decade for Union. Head Coach AI Bagnoli credits Mason's success to the offensive line, the other running backs, and of course to the big tailback himself, who has been punishing opposing secondaries allseason. \When you have a big back like that who's not getting hit until he gets into the secondary, of course he's going to run people over and get some yards,\ said Bagnoli. \And it helps that we can rest him because of the other people we can bring in.\ As a team, the Dutchmen amassed the huge totals of 356 yards on 56 rushes. \We knew we'd be able to run the ball,\ Bagnoli said, \but we didn't know we'd be able to run it for 356 yards. It's hard to know with a team you've never played before. Films can be misleading.\ The turning point of the ballgame came during Union's third possession. After squandering their first two possessions with successive . turnovers, the Dutchmen took over on their own 28 following a punt and drove 71 yards on 10 plays. Facing 4th and 1 on the Gettysburg 1, junior fullback Tom Lornbardoni found his way into the end zone for a 6-0 Union lead. The Dutchmen would power their way to scores on their next four consecutive possessions, shredding a porous Gettysburg defense. The Bullets dropped to 2-5-1. Union combined their running game with a passing game that gained 193 yards. For the season, l.he Dutchmen are averaging 209.5 yards per game on the ground and 193.1 yards in the air, a balance that is rare at the Division III level. The 39 points that Union scored were a season high, but as it turned out, the Dutchmen wouldn't need all those points, as their ferocious defense simply shut down the Bullets. Standouts included senior strong safety Bob Anderson who had 4 tackles and assisted <Jn 5 others, junior tackle Brian Faria who had 4 tackles and 2 assists, and senior defensive end Greg Hallas, who finished with 4 tackles, 3 assists, and 3 sacks. ••• The Dutchmen return to Frank Bailey Field for their final two games against Norwich this Saturday and against Hamilton the following Saturday. The Dutchmen beat both of those teams last year, but are not looking past them this year, even as Union remains prominent in the rankings. \Our destiny is in our own hands,\ said Bagnoli. \We can't look past anyone. We can't worry about the rankings. If we win these last two games, they can't keep us out of the playoffs.\ For those of you that do .worry about the rankings, Union has been running a close second to Cortland State in the NCAA Eastern Poll, the Lambert/Meadowlands Poll, and the Sports Channel Poll. Cortland also improved to S-0, but it will be interesting to sec if the Dutchmen pull ahead in the rankings because Cortland won by a narrow 22-20 score over Canisius. • • e This Saturday will be the third meeting between Norwich and Union. Norwich won 14-3 in 1926, and last year in Vermont the Dutchmen outlasted the Cadets 1 0-8. Norwich is 2-5-1 and has lost its last five games. St. Lawrence beat the Cadets 38-14 last week. Nonetheless, Coach Bagnoli warns that \These military schools are always physically tough teams.\ If you can't make it to Saturday's 1:30 p.m. start, tune in to WRUC 89.7 FM for all the coverage including an interview with Caach Bagnoli starting at 1:00. Come Out and Support The Undefeated Football Team This Saturday As The Team Faces Norwich At 1:30 P.M.

Vol. CXIX, N Oc 8 Ne,w Social Policy . Proposal Waiting For Final Approval By MATT LANNI This proposal was presented at the Student Forum meeting A new social policy, drawn on MondaY,, November 6 by up by the Ad Hoc Committee IFC president Arthur Hudson. on Social Policy will be voted . Hudson is in favor of the on by the Student Affairs · proposal. He feels that a Council on Wednesday, compromise had to be made November 8. This proposal is . with the Administration written in response. to the new . because of the new law. · New York State law Jack M.lUkis. a Student concerning alcohol consump- Forum member, and a brother tion, and if passed will be put at Theta Delta Chi, disagreed into effect Winter term of this with the proposal. He felt that academic year. In this proposal there are four recommen- dations. Recommendation number ane states that no II student organization, club or seciety may purchase alcohol with money systematically collected from (its) membership or the Student Forum.\ Recommendation number two prohibits alcohol distributors to II sell or deliver beer on campus.\ Recommendation number three states that fraternities must \remove all futures that give an appearance of a bar ... (including) permanent bars in living rooms and other barroom accouterments.\ This includes the prohibition of fixed taps, cold plates and beer signs. ••• fraternities must \remove all fixtures that give an appearance of a bar • . • (including) pel'manent bars in living rooms . • • and fixed taps\ · · · this is the first s.tep in abolishing the fraternities by the Administration. \It is another step in the fading out of fraternities, that started last year with having no parties during the middle of the week, and with the new rush calender,\ Markis later said. He went on to say that some · aspects of the proposal were \ludicrouus.\ \I can see having no beer distributors deliver on campus, · but not allowing beer signs is , ~n infringement on our rights, · We pay money for the house, · it is our common room, -Siti · we should be able to decorate it . the way we want to,\ added Markis. Continued on page 3 Schenectady, New York Union Applies For Reaccreditation By ELISE FOODY New,s Editor The lengthy and involved · process a college goes through to receive reaccreditation is a . process that is once again ~oming familiar to members of the Union College community. All colleges across ihe country are required to apply for reaccreditation every ten years, and ·by October, 1990, Union will have completed this task. Union must apply for reaccreditation specifically to the Middle States Association qf Colleges and Schools . i Commission on Higher Education which is headquartered in Philadelphia. Receiving accreditation implies that a particular institution maintains standards that qualify its graauates for admission to · higher or more specialized institutions or for professional practice. There are several different ways a college may apply for reaccreditation. In consultation ·with the Middle States Association Union has chosen to do a comprehensive self- study with six selected · emphases. According to Professor Charlie Tidmarch (Political Science) who is involved in the reaccreditation procedures, \the MSA encourages colfeges to find the best means of assessing themselves. Union chose to examine how to better themselves in terms of academics and student 'life rather than to submit a typical report which would examine a college's p~ysica:l facilities, . faculty development and budget · management.\ To begin the process an initial planning committee called the Steering Committee was formed in the Summer of 1988 and the MSA assigned a representative to work with.the Committee. The representative chosen was Dr. Paula Hooper- Mayhew, Associate Director of the MSA Committee en Higher Education. She has visited the campus three times since the process began to check the progress of tbe Committee. Members of the Steering Committee include Dean of Faculty James Underwood. Vice President of Finance John Hauser, Dean oTEngineering . Lawrence Hollander, Dr. Jack Maranville (Institutional Planning), Professor Charlie Tidmarch (Political Science), Union chose to examine how to better themselves in terms of academics and student life, rather than to submit a typical report. Professor Barbara Boyer (Biology), Professor Jan Ludwig (Philosophy)~ Prafessor Gary Reich (Physics), and Ms. Patricia Tappa (Institutional Planning). The Steering Committee was first required to submit a Continued on page 4 Recommendation number four states that the Interfraternity Council (IFC) and the Dean of Students Office will work together to ''give definition to these recommendations, ouild support among member organizations, and see that they are honored.\ Greek Rush Moves To Winter Term By AR,THUR HUDSON _ and KERRY McKIBBON i~ Panhellenic; i:{ - General information ;~ \ meeting· : second week of . i Winter term (between Jan. 13 I· and Jan .. 19) -Rush Registration: week 2.5 - 3.5 (Jan. 23-30). -Formal Rush: fifth . week (Feb. 3-9). -. Bids Issued: end of week five (Feb. 9). lE.C..i. -Rush Convocation: beginning of second week (Jan. 13). -. Formal Dry Rush: · weeks 2 and 3 (Jan. 14-26). -·. Bid Week: week 5 (Feb. ::: f~- ' November 9, 1989 Mi:n,erva Lecture Features Al'DS Patients By KAREN HURWITZ On Thursday, November 2, 1989 from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel a group disc11ssion was held with two people who have AIDS. The progn11n was part of the Thir-d An: n ual AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Awareness Week. One of t.1Je guest speakers, . Garret Waite, works for the . West Germa.n government in West Berli11. He founded the : Facet An Gallery inWest · Berlin whic~ contains posilive art work for people with AIDS. The ether ~uest, Tim, is a graduate of .Albany State and is also inflictc.d with AIDS. Both men tried to ~ive the audience some idea of what it feels like to have AIDS arrd what others can do to help people with AIDS (PWA!;). Garret Vl.ai te was diagnosed with AIDS ()ne year aflcr his partner died from AIDS. He believes the single most important tiling is support. If it weren't b~ the support of his friends and family. he believes he would11't be here today. They have given him the will to survive ~tnd hope for the future. He s~id he had never thought abo11t dying before he was diagnos~ with AIDS, and Conti n1ed on page 3 On November 1 the Student Affairs Council unaminously voted to pass the newly written Rush proposals for the 1990- 1991 academic year. These proposals were discussed by the Pa,nhellenic and Interfraternity Councils last spring. and were formally submitted this fall. These proposals were passed only after much discussion between Greek representatives, the Administration, and the SAC. The upcoming Winter Rush calender will be as follows: Continued on .page 3 Photo of the Week: Reflectioru on the Nott I

Vol. CXIX, No. 8 New Social Policy Proposal Waiting For Final Approval By MATT LANNI A new social policy, drawn up by the Ad Hoc Committee on Social Policy will be voted on by the Student Affairs . Council on Wednesday, November 8. This proposal is written in response to the new New York State law concerning alcohol consump- tion, and if passed will be put into effect Winter term of this academic year. In this proposal there are four recommen- dations. Recommendation number one states that no \student organization, club or society may purchase alcohol with money systematically collected from (its) membership or the Student Forum.\ Recommendation number two prohibits alcohol distributors to \sell or deliver beer on campus.\ Recommendation number three states that fraternities must \remove all fixtures that give an appearance of a bar ... (including) permanent bars in living rooms and other barroom accouterments.\ This includes the prohibition of fixed taps, cold plates and beer signs. This proposal was presented at the Student Forum meeting on MondaY,, November 6 by IFC president Arthur Hudson. Hudson is in favor <>f the proposal. He feels tllat a compromise had to be made with the Administration because of the new law. Jack Markis, a Student Forum member, and a brother at Theta Delta Chi, disagreed with the proposal. He felt that •.• fraternities must \remove all fixtures that give an appearance ()f a bar . . . (including) permanent bars in living rooms . • . and fb:ecl taps\ this is the first step in abolishing the fraternities by the Administration. \It is another step in the fading out of fraternities, that started last year with having no parties during the middle of the week, and with the new rush calender,\ Markis later said. He went on to say that some aspects of the proposal were \ludicrouus.\ \I can see having no beer distributors deliver on campus, but not allowing beer signs is ;:m infringement on our rights. We pay money for the house, it is our common room, ·arl.tl we should be able to decorate it the way we want to,\ added Markis. Continued on page 3 Schenectady, New York Union Applies For Reaccreditation By ELISE FOOD¥ News Editor The lengthy and involved process a college goes thro11gh to receive reaccreditation is a process that is once a~ain becoming familiar to memlrers of the Union Colle:ge community. All colleges across the country are required to apply for reaccreditation every ten years, and by October, 1990, Union will have completed this task. Union must apply for reaccreditation specifically to the Middle States Association of Colleges and Sch()ols Commission on Higlier Education which is headquartered in Philadelpl!ia. Receiving accreditation imp! ies that a partic11lar institution maintains standards that qualify its graduates for admissio11 to higher or more specialized institutions or f<>r professional practice. There are several different ways a co1Iege may apply [or reaccreditation. In consultati()n with the Middle States Association Union has cho:;en to do a comprehensive self- study with six selected emphases. According to Profes:;or Charlie Tidmarch (Political Science) who is involved irl the reaccreditation procedures, \the MSA encourages colleges to find the best means of assessing themselves. Uni{)n chose to examine how to better themselves in terms of academics and student life rather than to submit a typical repm:t which would examine a college's physical facilities, faculty development and budget management.\ To begin the process an initial planning commit tee called the Steering Committee was fonned in the Summer of 1988 and the MSA assigned a representative to work with the Committee. The representative chosen was Dr. Paula Hooper- Mayllew, Associate Director of the MS A Committee on Higher Education. She has visited the campus three times since the process began to check ~he progress of the Committee. Mem))ers of the S tecring Commi Hee include Dean of Faculty James Underwood, Vice President of Finance John Hauser, Dean of Engineering Lawrence Hollander, Dr. Jack Maran vi He (Institutional Plannin~). Professor Charlie Tidmarch (Political Science), Union chose to examine how to better themselves in terms of academks and ·stuclent life, rather than to submit a ty1>ical report. Professor Barbara Boyer (Biology), Professor Jan Ludwig (Philosophy), Professor Gary Reich (Physic:s), and Ms. Patricia Tappa (Institutional Planning). The Steering Committee was first required to submit a Con1inued on page 4 Recommendation number four states that the Interfraternity Council (IFC) and the Dean of Students Office will work together to \give definition to these recommendations, build support among meml>er organizations, and sec that they arc honored.\ Greek Rush Moves To Winter Term By ARTHUR HUDSON and KERRY McKIBBON Panhellenic: - General information meeting: seccnd week of Winter term (between Jan. 13 and Jan. 19) -Rush Registrati()ll: week 2.5 - 3.5 (Jan. 23-30). -Formal Rush: fifth week (Feb. 3-9). -Bids Issued: end of week five (Feb. 9). l..f:..C.l -Rush C ()D vocati()ll: beginning of second week {Jan. 13). -Formal Dry Rusb: weeks 2 and 3 (Jan. 14-26). -Bid Week: week 5 (Fe: b. ;.·.J:.·' I ! November 9, 1989 Minerva Lecture Features AIDS Patients By KAREN HURWITZ On Thursday, November 2, 1989 from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel a group discussion was held with two people who have AIDS. The program was part of the Third Annual AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases Awareness W cck. One of the guest speakers. Garret Waite, works for the West German govcmment in West Berlin. He founded the Facet Art Gallery inWest Berlin which contains positive art work for people with AIDS. The other guest, T1rn, is a graduate of Albany State and is also innictcd with AIDS. Both men tried to give the audience some idea of what it feels like to have AIDS and what others can do Lo help people with AIDS (PWAs). Garret Waite was diagnosed with AIDS one year after his partner died from AIDS. He believes the single most important thing is support. If it weren't for the support of his friends and family, he believes he wouldn't be here today. They have given him the will to survive and hope for the future. He said he had never thought about dying !>cforc he was diagnosed with AIDS, and Continued on p~ge 3 ~ On November 1 the Student Affairs Council unaminously voted to pass the newly written Rush proposals for the 1990- 1991 academic year. 'These proposals were discussed by the Panhcllenic and Interfraternity Councils last spring, ami were formally submitted this fall. These proposals were passed only after much discussion between Greek representatives, the Administration, and the SAC. The upcoming Winter Rush calender will be as follows: Continued on page 3 Photo of the Week: Reflections on tile Nott.

Page 2 CONCORDIENS/S, November 9, 1989• I • . , . ' • • illnltnlrhfrttsis NEWS ANAL YS.IS Sinatra And T'he Soviet Union By CLIFF BIRBROWER Last week there occurred one of the most significant changes in Soviet Foreign Policy. Soviet Foreign Minister Edum-d Shevardnadze, in a speech to the press, denounced Solliet intervention in Afghanistan by saying, \it violated the norms of proper behavior.\ Mildlail Gorhachev expanded on the issue by saying that the Soviet Union had \no moral or political right to interfere in events in the rest of the East bloc.\ They called this policy the \Sinatra Doctrine\ because like the Frank Sinatra song~ \I Did It My Way\ now the . . • tbe \Sinatra Doctrine\ gives all tbe countries in the Soviet BIGc the right to move politically in any direction 'they .want. countries of the Soviet bloc can do it their way. Unlike the \Breshnev Doctrine\ of 1968 which gave Bush Can Stop The War In Nicaragua By JON KELLER On November 1, Nicaragllan President Daniel Ortega Saavedra bad no choice but to end the 19-month cease-fire with United States backed rebels. It was a difficult decision, but it had to be made. Unfortunately, the peace process in Nicaragua has not progressed according to the agreements made in Tela, Honduras. Oh yes, and George Bush, the self-professed champion of the Prudent Doctrine, simply has not learned the lessons of Vietnam. He could stop the fighting, but he chooses not to. One would think that after eight years .of nothing but failure in Nicaragua that he might learn. On August 5, Central American heads of state met in Tela, with. the intention of making a serious effort to e11d the bloody, senseless conflict in Nicaragua. Together. they called for the demilitarizati<m of all Contra bases in Honduras, which are currently deployed with over 10,000 soldiers. Together they hoped they could end the fighting in Nicaragua and clear the way for the elections to be held in February, 1990. Free elections are going to be held in Nicaragua on .• the USSR the right to intervene in any Eastern bloc country threatening to leave commnnism, the \Sinatra Doctrine\ gives all the countries in the Soviet bloc the right to move politically, in any direction they want. Hungary ha~ been one of the first to take advantage of this new policy. New parties :have emerged in Hungary, leaving little rcom for the existing communist party. Are these changes in Soviet foreign policy because finally February 25. Mr. Ortega has · committed himself: He has said, in 'his own New York Times editorial, that \On February 25, 1990, Nicaragua will celebrate free, fair and democratic elections. The president, vice president and legislature elected will then take office, with full constitutional powers, on April 25, 1990. These are my solemm. :promises to the Nicara~uan people.\ He has U nfortnliately, the peace process in Nicaragua has not prCJgressed according to the agreements made in Tela made the commitment. So why aren't tlte Contras dismantling their forces? Why w~re 50 voter registration centers forcibly closed by Contra infiltrators? Why were known Sandinista supporters-- prominent community leaders, party activists and local they have 'realized that they have been wrong or because now., in the wake of their failing economy, tile Soviets see that their · threatening presence in Eastern Europe has done little to help their situation. Some m;:ty conclude that this policy cltange was targeted at trying to satisfy the countries of Eastern Europe in order to get more economic support. I challenge, that this is a first step in a plan to gain support frQm the nations of Southeast Asia. For years the .Soviets have looked to both and East and Southeast Asia for economic support but because of long standing territorial disputes with Japan and problems with ASEAN (Association of South El\stern Asian Nations) involving Cambodia. they have come up short. Tb:e Soviet Union knows tbat their military and economic support of the Vietnamese invasion of municipal candidates-- executed, their throats slit by Contra soldiers? For one thing, tiiey know that their candidates would be trounced in a nationwide election, as they are fighting an unpopular crusade. Most Nicaraguans do not want their leaders to be despotic generals lodged deeply into the proverbial \back pocket\ of the United States government But, more importantly. President Bush isn't exactly encouraging _the peace process. In fact, he is doing everything··.he can to stand in the way. In addition to continually nagging Congress to resume Contra furuling, last week he renewed the economic embargo that has strangled all commerce between Nicragua and the United States since 1985. This certainly is not helping Nicaragua to build itself into a viable, self- sustaining economic power. Finally. Bush has continued to supply the Contras with non- 1~1 assistance. Jn other words, he is making every · Cambodia has been the catalyst of waning relations with ASEAN. Thus, by creating a trend in· Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union will be able to use the outcome of the ,.Sinatra Doc.trine\ to eventually abolish • • • by creating a trend' in Eastern Europe~ the Soviet Union will be able to use the \Sinatra Doctrine\ to eventually abolish ties with Vietnam • tie.s with Vietnam and strengthen economic ties with ASEAN.-- 'fhis, of course, is only one possible outcome of the new . Soviet Foreign Policy but if this were to work, the United . States would find themselves looking at a stronger Soviet Union with closer ties to Southeast Asia and potential 1 military influence in the region. effort to keep the Contra infrastructure intact, ready to regenerate itself at a politically opportune moment. He refus0s In addition to continually nagging congress to resume Contra funding, last week be renewed the economic embargo which has strangled comnt~Fce between •Nicaragua alld the U.S. to accept the fact that the answer to the Nicaragua situation . cannot be forcibly imposed. Why· can't he understand that the war in Nicaragua is over. It is time we started acting as the responsible power we profess ()urselves to be. It is time to start working with Ortega in an effort to feed, educate and enfranchise Nicaraguans. President .Bush, I am asking you to learn the lessons of Vietnam. I am asking you to let-go. · SPAA Confronts Realities Of Racism By ROBIN ISSERLES of the program is to \understand how we are all There is only one way to victims in such a reciprocal overcome racism, and that is to system and how it is confront it. There is no room threatening many of the best for rationalization, nor for values in our society. ne.glecting what is real and [American Pictures} could in true. There are naked children the long run lead to some kind dying of malnutrition and ofactionwhichis.notbasedon suffering from rat bites in guilt but genuine solidarity md shacks they call home all self-interest.\ within miles of the symbols of Holdt left his native American affluence. These Denmark in the early 1970's )1ottor stories are real and and came to the United States cannot be explained away out to see what life was like in this of our streams of country. When he arrived, he consciousness. experienced what a life of On Thursday, November 9, poverty and oppression is at 7 p .. m., in SS016, those really Hke. For the next five who attend Am erie an years and l i8,000 miles, he P.ictores will confront tl!is hitchhiked his way througiithe harsh reality. According to the country, staying in 400 homes producer; J aeab ·Heldt; the !rim· , . in 48-different .states. ~He. rold plasma for film and relied on human warmth for survival.\ The presentation focuses on the oppressed state of Blacks. It is not a cold, impersonal academic view, but rather a personal account of his travels. The presentation focuses on the vppressed state of black. It is not a cold, impenoual, academic view, but rather a personal account of his travels. Op.eniog llimself up to the sufferi11g and love of the downtr<>dden, he offers much more than a textbook account of the real America. He takes the audience first to the American South. He interviews · • ' ' ' • • - ., • • • • ~. ~· • , ... #, p ... ,. • ' dirt-eaters in Mississippi, sharecroppers in Georgia, and relates stories of the horrors of Florida's forced labor camps. The second half of the Show looks at racism in the North, and how it is practiced by \.well-intentioned but cold, paternalistic liberals .. \ It is his firm belief that . although the chains might have been taken . off the bodies of the Blacks, they are still locked tightly on their minds. As he moved from .the lower to the upper class, he discovered that Whires as well as Blacks are victims of racial oppression. Holdt sees a \cycle of resentment; with Blacks feeling anger and hostility, and Whites experiencing guilt and fear.\· ••_This tangle,l' he says, 1 'is self- , . ' ... ,,. -\' .. .. . . . .. . . ~ - ' .. sustaining, and can only be combatted with personal recognition of ones.' racial biases.\ He emphasizes the importance for students to witness this presentation in order to gain a deeper insight . into the poverty, insecurity, and mcism that is so entrenched in American society, hilt so covered by the blankets of affluence. SP AA, Students fot Political Awareness and Action urges the entire Union College community to witness this presentation. Racial oppression cannot be escaped in America. Black or White, Hispanic or Asian, all Ameticans are victims of their environment. We can combat racism, Let us start by confronting it together. . - ' ...... - \ v. .. .. . ·~ .. ' ..... w • • :to; ~' ~ .. ·• ] ]

CONCORDIENSl~, N~vember· 9, 19~9 Page 3 Union Kicks·-Off United Way Drive 'fhe annual United Way campaign .is about to begin at Union with Prof. Carl George of the Biology Department ami Joanne Tobiessen ofthe Care:er :Pevelopm·ent Center coordinating. ' percent of the· $2.2 million United Way raised. The coordinators hope to increase this year's Union giving by 10% and the propQrtion of donors to 60%. United Way aids 65 human service pro.gratns by its 25 member agencies, including pmgrams for the elderly, troubled teens and battered spouses. Last year, the Unioil community cl()natd $25 ,OtJ(l with 54% ofits more than 65() members gtvmg. Th;at .· represented slightly over one ·• Gireek Rush· . • in the third week into fall term, and 'will sponsor various ,. campus wide activities during the fall as well. Continued from page 1 3-9). No bjds to be iss1:1ed before this tlm.e. It should be noted that the IFC's Rush Committee will be establishing strict guidelines -· Pledging: Not to be~in before the si:x;th week (Feb. 'that all fraternities will be expected to follow. TJ}e :Panhellenic rules will basically remain the same for the period leading up to, and through Rush week. Both the IFC and Panhellenic Presidents, Arthur. Hudson and Kerry McKibbon respectively, are very pleased with the outcome and are encouraged hy the respect that the SAC showed for their 10). . Prior to this time, lFC amd PanheUenic will be includi11g booklets and pamphlets in tile fall Orientation. packets with the aid of the Dean of Students office. These will serve to explain Greek life and Rush procedures, Also, IFC a11d Panhellenic will be setting li:P a booth at tbe Activities Fair positions. Before The Butterflies TONIGHT THROUGH SATURDAY NOIT NIEMORIAL Reported Security Incidents Week ·.of 1'0/30·11/5 DATE . LOCA.'.rl:ON ' 10-30 Arts Building 10-30 South (!ollege 10-31 Fox./Davidson area 10-31 Fieldlrouse 10-31 Ricllmond 10-31 College Center 10-31 West Cc:>l, Laundx:y 10 ... 31 South College 11-1 College Center 11-1 College Center 11-1 South College INCIDE~T _Student passed out, taken to Ell;i..s. S:\tuO.ents throwing water ballo01 Students' involveQ. in an al·ter- cation. ~aramedics cal~~d to t.:reat one studEnt. '!'!left from office reported. Stud.ents advisEJd to e~ting.uish canO.les. · VanO.alism :.wincow Contact ·oeaa. opossum in dryer .. StuO.ent reports threatenj,ng te iephone calls. 'lanlialism to elevator. 11c:p:e vand-al isn't to elevator. Student made obscene gesture. 11-2 New Entry Small 'group attemp:Hng vandal- ism to college property •. 11-2 ColJ.ege Center 1!1:nauthori2ed e11try. · 11-2 Huntley/Library Lll llanda,lism. to Stop sign. . .11-2 s & E · S.t;~Jff Irember re:pt'rts anr.,oyt~.nce \'leJ can •. 11-2 ·Arts Bllilding Report of person passed out by Dance studio. GOA .• 11-2 Raymond 11-2 Alpha ~lta Phi 11-3 South Coliege 11-3 Fox SoU:th 11-3 Fox Lower Level 11-3 Fox North 11-4 ~untle7/Libra~y L~ 11-4 Edwards House 11-4 Achi-lleos Rink 11~5 Off ca~pus 11~5 Rich.Ifiond 11-5 Potter House 11-5 Davidson 11·5 Astr()f.:llif ;u-s Hale fl<>use ·Student report:s. vandalism to .te.l.ephone. \1anO.alism to car reported. famperin~ \'ritl Li:fe Safety liqu:ipmer.t (Fire Extinquhher) cat reported in hallway. F:i:tO'e panel glass removed. · Sti.ltients exited building. throu 111:indow, VanO.alism to Stop sign. .\gressive dog inside building. Stua.ents drinking alcl)hol while making u11authori.zed use o:f facility. Student report,ed Pe~ping Tom t<>- Schenectady Police Dept, R~port of someone banging on .windolrl\s. D~or crashbar vandalized. Vandalism - glass pane in door b;T,\o)';.en. N<>n students advised off fielCi 'l'h:eft of vase reported.· FraternityHouses May Be F.aced With MaJor C:hanges Co11tinued from page 1 Markis was also unhappy with the fact that the student although not delivered hy beer distributors on campus, could he delivered to ·the outside of cam·pus, and brothers could bring them to the houses. As · bo-dy did not get a chance to vo-ice lheir opinions and he would have liked to see the whole studcmt body to vote on the proposal. \The opinions of the students were not taken . for the payment of the alcohol, . Hudson alluded to the fact tht '· there are ways to collect funds . into consideration .. .it was railroaded through before the students had a chance to voice · \unsystematically.\ Hudson did not specifically state these other ways. · their opinions,\ concluded Mzlds. Other Student Forum . members, including President David Cohen, who is a brother .at Alpha Delta Phi, did not feel ·that the proposal was . m!Qtivated to · abolish · f1otemities. Fur.thermore, they felt that the proposal was a . reasonable compromise. \If every fraternity sponsored a11.academic function, like the poetry reading at Altha Delta, a lo.t .of heat. would be taken off · • tlte fraternities,\ stated Hudson in_ response to Markis. He went on ·to say that fraternities would still be able to have · parties, but with \hand , pumped\ kegs. These kegs, \lf every fraternity sponsored an academic function like the poetry reading at Altha De1ta, a lot of heat would be taken off Fraternities.\ -Arthur Hudson On Tuesday, November 7th, IFC voted in favor of rhe policy by a vote of 11 in favor, 4 opposed and 1 abstaining. Yesterday, the Student Affairs Council also approved the recommendation of the policy. However, according to Dean of . Students, Joseph Mammola, ! \The policy will not go into I effect during winter tenn.\ SPREAD SOME HOLIDAY CHEER Donate to Fund for Local Yo·uth Use the envelope in your box on Friday Announcing AIDS Patients Relay Experiences Cont.inued from page 1 that it is scary to think about death. He sees himself as an educator, trying to reach out 1.0 society and help those with AIDS and teach others about it. The other guest, Tim, was sick for one year before finally being diagnosed with AIDS. The doctors told him that he had l3 months to live and he honestly didn't think he could make it. He also discussed the extreme importance of support from friends and family. During the question and answer part of the program students and faculty asked how they could help AIDS patients and the dominant theme was support. AIDS patients need to know that you care, and that you arc there for them whC\n they need you most. They also discussed the importance of AIDS awareness. Too many college students think that they won'.t get AIDS, but they are wrong and it may in some way affect their lives as well. They need to practice safe sex, and not use IV drugs just as. the whole community should take precautions to prevent AIDS. Because of modern medicine and hope for the future ll1e two men have positive attitudes about surviving. USE TRASH CANS! Educational· Studies PrograiD. InforDlation Meetings Monday, November 13th Meetings at lO:OOAM 12:00 Noon 1:00PM and 3:30PM in College Center Room 204 and Tuesday, November 14th Meetings ot 1:00PM in College Center Rm 203 and 3:00 PM in College Center Room 204 OOtB!&ta @l @12\ ~ @' cag§@.@@ a a o o a a ~@@®iill@ ®a '\S®@@19:!.t3m g Students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic languages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, or general science) or social studies should attend. Information will be given regarding the undergraduate, graduate, and five-year combined degree programs.

Page 4 ·CONCORDTENSIS, November 9, 1989 1990 Marks Deadline For 'Union Reaccreditation New Acadeinic Calendar·· Questioned Continued rrom pa~:e 1 \Statement of Mission\ to the . MSA which upon aJ)proval would pro:vide the College with a basis of study. This was submitted in July and was subsequently approved. The Statement of Missi<m asserts that \Union believes t.llat the fundamental obligatio11 of a liberal arts college is to create in students a commitnunt to, and a joy in, learning as central to their development over the course of a lifetime.\ By conducting a self~study, the College will examine ways to assrue that this \fundamental obligation\ is guaranteed. Further duties of the Steering Committee according to Dean Underwood are to \give direction to the self-st11dy and to appoint the six a\\)-pro:priate subcommittees to analyze each specified emphasis.\ The folowing emphases were selected for inclusion within the comprehensive report: Status of the Curriculum; Freshman Year and :Residential Life; Assessing Eff()rts to Challenge and Energize Students; International Programs; Diversity in the Student Body; and Gradmte and Contimling Studies. There are a total of 38 members on these subcommittees, eight .of whom · are Union students. The remaining members are college • faculty and administrators. . One last responsibility of the S teerin:g Committee is to write . a final comprehensive report after rece,ving each individual · subcornrnitteee's report. It is expected that the first drafts .of these repo-rts will be completed by JaEluary, 1990. By mid- Spring each subcommitttee . . ·will then submit a finalized draft oJ their respective papers to the Steering Committee, and · the comprehensive report will be written over tbe summer. Dean Underwood mentioned that tile Steering Committee will ask for input from the campns community on the subcommittee reports during Spring Term, but at the present time. definite guidelines for doing so have not yet been determined. He did note that copies of the reports.will most probably be sent to the Academic Affairs Council and the Student Affairs Council. By mid-September, the finalized report will be sent to the MSA and in October an evaluation team will be sent from the MSA to Union. The visiting team will consist of 8- 10 faculty and administrators from other institutions. They wjll spend approximately 3 days on campus interviewing students and other members of the campus community. The team will then construct their own teport about the College which, according to Dean Underwood, \will reflect what they have seen and heard during ! their visit.\ Th.e final a.ct of reaccreditation is made by the MSA upon receipt of the evaluation team's findings. In the evaluation team ',s. report will be critiques and appraisals of various facets of life at Union. The report may also include appropriate suggestions for certain changes in a particular area. Five years aftet the report is made, Union will be required to submit to the MSA a follow- up report (less detailed than the original comprehensive report) on the College's progress since the evaluation teams's visit. Plans for construction of. that particular report will be ananged at a later date. By ELIZABETH BERLINER As discreetly publishe'd in the present catal<Jg, next fall, Union will be instituting a new academic calendar. As indicated, classes wH( not · begin until the 19th of • Septembe:r, and then students will return for two weeks of · classes and finals after· break. The propos~ produced a tie vote {6-6) by the Academic Affairs Council last sprin-g. The vote consisted of four students and two administrators against the proposed calendar, versus six faculty members in favor, with one faculty member absent,. Upon that TIE vote, the Dean of Faculty recommended to the Pr~sident's Council that they accept the new calendar. Many ask why the College neglected to make this change public. 1990•91 ACADEMIC CALENDAR SEPTEMBER 1990 15 15-18 17 17·19 19 .. OCTOBER 1990 2 NOVEMBER 1990 21-25 3) I)ECEMB~R 1990 3 7 8 JANUARY 1991 . ·s 7 7-8 18 MARCH 1991 15 18 22 23 31 :Residence h~ils open·$t:noon Fre~hmanorierita,tion Freshman acjvising Fall tetm registration Class begin Last day for changQs in sche~lule Thanksgiving reoess Classes end Fall term exams begin Exams end, recess begins Residence halls closeatnoon Residence halls open at noon Winter term classes begin Winter term registration Last day for changes In schedule Classes end Winter term exams tJegin Exams end, recess begiris Residence halls close at noon .flesidence hal!s'open at noon Donor Aids Biology Department APRIL 1991 1 1·2 12 JUNE 1991 7 Spring term classes begin Spring term registration Last day for changes ih schedule 1 An endowed fund to support the educational programs of the Biology Department h.as been established in memory of Dr. Henry M. Butzel~ a Union biology professor f<Jr 35 yars, through gifts from his wife, Miriam W. ButzeL Dr. B utzel joined the Union faculty as an assistant professor in 1953, embarking on a career of distinguished teaching, research and college service. He was promoted to ass<Jciate professor in 19 58 and full professor in 1963. His SC'~olarship wa<s supported and recognized by NOVEMBER, 1!18~ 1989-90 WINTER TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Winter term classes will begin on WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3rd. Student scherlules will·be distributed to student mailboxes located in the College Center, prior to the beginniflg of classes. Duplicate copies of class sched'ules will be available in Old Chapel on the fll'st day of classes. Formal registration will take place in Old Chapel on WEDNESDAY, and THURSDAY, JANUARY 3rd and 4th. Students are reminded that c<Jmpletion of the formal registration procedure consists of the following steps: 1.) Pick up registratio11 packet 2.) Fill out and rnak:e necessary correctil()n to the data 3.) Drop cards in designated boxes. This process is required of EVERY STUDENT EACH 1ERM THEY ARE IN ATIENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE regardless of whether or not they have finalize-d their schedule or have paid for the term. Failtll'e to complete the registration packets may jeo])ardize fmancial aid awards and academic credit -NO EXCEPTIONS! Registration packets are considered late after FRIDAY, JANUARY 5th and will be assessed a fme of $25. If you anticipa.te returning to school late, please notify the Registrar's Office. irn mediately! Provided there is a legitimate reason, we can then give you an extension to register late withoat penalty. It is, however, the student's responsibility t() notify their instructors if they anticipate returning late for classes. Schedtde changes (adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at the Registrar's Office located in Whitaker House beginning Wedne~>day, January 3rd. The last day to declare a course \Pass-Fail\ is Tuesday~ January 9th. The last day to make schedule cbanges (add, drops, section changes) without special permission is TUESDAY. JANUARY 16th. Any course drepped or sNitched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the st11dent's transcript. Payment of term bills or to resolve any billing problems will be handled in the Business Office located in the Administration Building. grants from such organizations as the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation and several res~h grants from the ·National ~ Institutes of Health. 10 13 14·16 16 Classes end Spring term exams begin Exams end Reunion weekend Commencement Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation The Shape of Two Cities:· · Ne!w York/Paris Special Undergraduate Program A junior year introduction to architecture, urban planning, and historic preservation for students who have completed their sophomore year at an accredited college or university. Students spend the first . semester in New York at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation and the second semester in Paris at Columbia's studio and classroom facility in the historic Marais district. The program offers a choice of academic terms: 1. Summer, 1990 in New York and Fall, 1990 in Paris. 2. Fall, 1990 in New York and S,pring, 1991 in Paris. Applications due March 15, 1990. Application forms and additional information may be obtained from: · Dean of Admissions Graduate School of Architecture. F'lanning, and Preservation 400 Avery Hall Columbia University New York, New York 10027 (212) .854-3510 Columbia University Is art affirm~tive aC:tioniequal opponunity institution.

·~·· ,, I CONCORDIENSlS, Ntnemlnr 9, 1989 Page 5 APFLrCATJoNsARE. Now BEING ACCEPT~D AT ~ Pttth.ekel}9r 5/0P lN AND FILL. O(ff AAI APPL-ICATION fl.iEXl 8t..£E.. II OU!<.S Gr<EAi P/3-0R-£ i MoR£ Aw'A/1 yo·u / -*OPGN /0 ALl- S\rUDG.NrS 1!-CAAilr -rAK~ A PER/VtA.NG.NI Sl-/tP.-r /PUT yooR. 0 ''I may be an art major, but I know a little something about economics.'' .NAMe. ON OVR SUB-LIS-r I . • You've done your home- work. You know where the best values are. You also knowthatwithAT&T, it costs less than most people think to stay in touch with your family and friends. In fact, you can make a 10-nunute coast -to -coast ' call any time, any day, for less than $3.00 with A1&T.* And who else can promise imme- ·. diate credit for wrong num- bers,· the fastest connections, atld .the largest worldwide long distance network? Nobody but AT&T For more information on. AT&T Long Distance Pr()ducts and Services, like the AT&T Card; call 1 800 525-=7955, Ext. 100. *Ad<l applicahle taxes and surcharges AT&T The right choice. UNION HOLIDAY FUND Spread Holiday Cheer to Local Youth Donate on Friday, use the envelope in your box NOTICE Winter Term Registration Winter Term Registration will be held in OLD CHAPEL, first floor not at the Field House. Registration is scheduled for Wednesday and· Thursday, January 3 and 4, 1990

\ Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, November 9, 1989 FEATURE.S A First Hand-Account Of A Bad Trip S,chedule Changes In The Departm,ent .of Mod.e.rn Language~ By ERIK P. KRAFT Ah, the joy of having to take the bus. I'm not taiking yQur average public transit vehicle ride here, I speak of thatdreaded horror known to many, loathed by ali, the long distance bus trip. Trapped in a small space with a stranger, usually one who spends his/her life working up an epic case of b.o., for several hours can be a 'harrowing experience. Let me ,tell you my story. I have stared into the face of Hell. and now wish to share my adventures with all. I was planning on going home to get a llaircut. When I inform0d my parents of my plans, they spoke the words I was dreading. \You'll have to take the bus home,\ they said with Satanic inflection in their voices, \and then we can bring you back to school. It's just too much driving for us.\ I pleaded with them. for my life was at stake, but to no avail. I told them of the evil fates that befall skinny little boys at bus stations. No dice. I offered them money. No sale. The next morning I got up, packed my things, and grudgingly went on my way. The Schenectady bus terminal was not what I expected. In my dealings witll buses the statio11s are generally huge places overflowing witil mindless perverts. Schenectady's station is rather small and contained only three perverts, one of which appeared to have some sort of mind. Even with the low pervert level, I still felt uncomfortable there, mainly due to one man who kept fooling with something in his bag, and looking around nervously. Thinking \Dude's got an Uzi,\ I got up and examined the food machines, in the feeble hopes that it would .spare me if this man went beserk. Of course, all the machines required change, and not a change machine to be found. Apparently the people who hang out at bus stations also design them. Just as I was about to drool all over the machine, as I had not had breakfast, my bus arrived, saving me for the time being. I boarded the bus, and grabbed the first empty seat I could find. Just as I was thinking, \Ah there's no one sitting next to me. Safety at last,\ a skinny, long haired greasy freak planted himself right next to me. To make things worse, he Started babbling in a language not our own, most likely Sanskrit. It seems before my arrival he had taken over the set of seats we were in and was sleeping there. He must have gotten up for a brief moment before I arrived, thus my thinking the seats empty. This creature continued to babble,. now to his girl{?) friend across the aisle. Once the bus started moving he quieted down and I thought I had finally found peace. Wrong. Hell-bent for revenge, our slimy friend decided to play on my empty stomach and start to eat. Fortunately, for me anyway, what he was eating was not at all appealing to me. I only caught a glimpse of it out of the corner of my eye, but it appeared to be cheese and celery on toast. It smelled horrible. After he had Comical Situations In The Classroom By KAREN BURNS, JULIE PATTISON, and BETH FISCHBEIN Have you ever noticed how pe:ople :react to certain situations in the classroom? In retrospect, most serious situations can be seen as comical. We've noticed the following frequently occurring incidents. --What do you do when you don't have the book the entire class is reading and following along to? Do you pretend you've read the passage and stored it in memory or try tc bec9me best friends with the person next to you'? --Has a fellow student ever u11knowingly charged into your classroom only to find it was the wrong room? -··What do you do when nature calls and there are only ten minutes remaining in the mcst crucial lecture of the term? Do you relieve yourself or die waiting? --When a professor concludes that something is \clearly\ the answer, has it ever not been clear to you? How stupid do you feel? --After a professor has made eye contact with you, how do you let him/her know you do not have anything to offer. so please do not call on you? · --What do you do wben a professor has made an error and everyone. is aware of it? If everyone knows, is it worth it to call it to her/his attention? --On the first day of class, while taking roll call, what do you do when the professor accidentally, yet thoroughly mangles a colleague's name? Do you refrain from laughing at the person in an already humiliating situation? --The professor has gone out of his/her way to assure you that no question is too stupid to ask because someone else probably has the same question. Yet, have you ever convinced yourself that your question is definitely too stupid to ask? consumed two of these foul , nasties, not me~ely biting them · but snapping and tearing at them with his teeth, much like By PRO:FESSOR SIGRID KELLENTER · The class sclledule change starting this. winter term was instituted partly with departments in mind who needed the option of four ·50 minute meeting times per week the way a pit bull devours a small child, our friend moved on to more conservative delicacies. Unable to open a banana, he moved on to an orange, which smelled very . good, much unlike him. Once · · the orange was fully gone he washed his hands with a wet- nap, the smell of which caused instead of the present three 65 minute classes. The Department of Modern Languages is one of these departments. me to have a flashback to the time on a bus trip a friend and I tried to steal the wet-nap dispenser from the bus's bathroom. Realizing that I had let my guard down and that my life may h~ve lx)en in danger, I snapped quickly back to reality. and saw Albany on the horizon and heard the driver announce a fifteen minute layover to refuel. A respite fmm terror, I · thought as I took my things and got off the bus. · In order to teach and to learn a new language, it is important to meet as frequently as · · possible for relatively brief periods of time. Language teaming requires full alertness and concentration .and constant repetition which the present schedule makes difficult. Thus, beginning winter tenn, the first year language courses, Basic l~vels I; II. and III, will be taught by our professors four times a week, with obligatory grammar drill/lab sessions taught by teaching assistants on the fifth day. The new schedille which distributes the material to be covered over more days, should make leamitlg and progressing in the language more enjoyable. Another new feature to look forward to will be our new impr(}.Yed language lab. Funded by a grant from the Culpepper Foundation, a state-of-the-art Tandberg Laboratory with a teacher console and 25 student booths wUI be installed during winter break. We will be able to inco-rporate computers and videos into the system in the future. Good news for language students as well as anyone on campiiS is that current news progr8111s received via satellite are being shown in the language lab. All are invited to watch French news MWF 1:30 p.m.; German news MWF 3 . p.m.; Spanish news MWF 4 p.m.; Hebrew news T Th 1:30 p.m.; Chinese news T Th 2 p.m.; Japanese news T Th 3 p.m.; md Russian news T Th 4 p~m. PHI GAMMA DELTA The Albany bus station totally fulfilled my idea of what a bus station should be. Plenty of perverts everywhere. and not a mind among them. It·· was a bad scene. I decided that while I had the time I might as well get something to eat. I got into line and ordered the breakfast special--2 eggs, toast, and a bash brown. MMM! I knew I was in trouble when the kid behind .the counter ~ured my eggs onto the grill with a - ladle, but I was hungry, so I . didn't complain. Just as I was finishing my fine meal, I. heard presents the announcement ~that the bus was now boarding. I threw out my food, ran to the bathroom · and got there just in time to see an empty terminal where Continued on page 8 THE 8-BALL poo·L TOURNEY Beginning January 5th Call Dave at .. 386-4151 ADVANCE NOTICE NCAA FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP IN THE EVENT UNION COLLEGE IS SELECTED TO HOST THE NCAA 1ST ROUND CHAMPIONSHIP GAME TICKETS WILL BE ON ?RESALE TUESDAY NOVEMBER 14 THROUGH FRIDAY NOVEMBER 17 AT MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE TICKET WINDOW 9:00 A.M. - 4~00 P.M. . PRICf:S $3.00 STUDENT- UNION COLLEGE ANO OPPOSING SCHOOL STUDENTS ONLY (LAWN SEATS AND STANDING ROOM) $5.QO .· . . GENERAL ADMISSION- (LAWN:SEATSAND STANDlN'C ROOM) $6 .. 00 . RESERVED SEATING -BlEACHER SEATS (LIMITED TO 1'500) THERE'WILL BE NO REFUNDS TIME OF GAME .12:00 NOON SATURDAY NOVEMBEt:l 18; 1989 ACCORDING 10 NCAA CHAMPIONSHIP GUIDE!-INES, THERE WILL BE CLOSE SUPERVISION OF ENTRY TO THE GAME. THERE WILL BE NO COMPLIMENTARY TICKETS. ·NO ONE WILL BE ADMITTED WITf10UT A TICKEr ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE SELECTION OF lHE HOST SCHOOL AND PARTICIPATING TEAMS WILL BE ANNOUNCED MONDAY NOVEMBER 13, 1989 THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONTINUED SUPPORT OF UNlOf)J COLLEGE · \ATHLETICS. 'I

• CONCORDIENSIS, Novemb~r 9; 1989 Page 7 H·alloran Speaks On Professional Women in Japan a~d tl,le U.S. By NAMITA RAVAL Last Thursday the Presid-ent's Commission on the Status of Women. at Union sponsored a presentation on professional women in Japan and the United States. Discussion was headed by Fumiko Mori Halloran, a visiting Woodrow Wilson Scholar, former senior political analyst, and author of six books. . Halloran spoke of attending an international conference on wome:{l's issues, after which she concluded that the inferior status of women is a global condition and that countries differ only in the degree to which they discriminate against women. Her eamparisoris of Japanese and American women expressed this in the aspects of edu~ation, career development, and family life. . Halloran explained that the number of Japanese women seeking higher education is increasing, especially in the field of computer science. She noted that companies are more likely to seek out women with degrees in computer science than men. More Japanese women are being appointed to lower level political assignments,. and that although women working low paying jobs still experience pay discrimination, women in white~colmr jobs are advancing toward equal pay. In the issue of career women and family care, Japan proves to be decidedly more progressive than the United States. A pregnant Japanese woman has a guaranteed paid three-month maternity leave and a one-hour paid leave of absence for the .next year. Childcare is more available and affor<iable for Japanese working mothers than for American women with children. The effects of children raised in daycare centers is also a topic of discussion in Japan, and Halloran suspects that it will become a more heated debate in the future. She explained a reason why Japan may be more progressive in relation to career women and childcare. It is written in the Japanese constitution that women are equal to men, but because women may also choose the role of childbearers, they must be protected by law with social proviSions. American women are at a disadvantage in comparison because they have no such statement to refer to for their rights. Their \separate byt equal\ status forces them to work around their choice to have children. THREE MINUTES· A DAY IS ALL WE ASK UNITED WAY arbooks are For Sale in CC Rm 408 - $25.00 FEATURES Locked Out By CARL R FRIEORICH, JR. Turning the corner onto llis street, Tommy dropped the gear on his bike two notches. Immediately he felt the difference\ He had spent a long day at painting and was rea.dy for a little relaxation. He eas:ed into the dr~veway o.f his parents' home, rising up o.ut of the seat to avoid the bump of the uneven pavement on the apron. Home again. The first th·ing he noticed was the absence of vehicles .in the drive, which .probably meant that he would have to make his own dinner. It was Friday and his parents usually went away for the weekend, leavin,g the cliildren (now old enough) to manage their own affairs. Tommy was now off his bike and walking on the lawn, stoppiag to pick up a piece of paper which had blown onto it. The l(l\ass could use a cutting, he thought, but he was tired, and decided to wait until Saturday. Tom walked around the front ··of the house and into the backyard, dr<>pping the litter dnto a trash barrel along; the way. He moped througfi the backyard to the well where the house key was located. He grunted as he, bent dawn to pick the key off the nail from which it huag in the Vlell Nothing. He felt for it again-- nothing .. \Gr.eat just really great,\ he said aloud. He bent down a little frutber so that he could see what he was dealing with. He took a long look at the nail, and then scanned the entire wall, with his eyes and hands. Tom my was definitely locked out. Tommy walked to the porch, and sat down on the St()op. What was he going to do now? It had to be about five-fifteen or five-thirty. since he stopped work around five. His sister was due between six-thirty and seven. So he would either have to break-in or take leave somewhere else. or wait. He was mad now. Everyone else had their own keys, except him. His parents would never give him one. He was thirteen years old and still dtdn 't own his own key. Tommy's anger was interrupted by the phone ringing inside. One, 'two, three rings. It teased him. He wondered who it was. Four. Five. It w~s probably one of his friends, and now they were going to make plans without him. Anyway, it didn't maHer now because it stopped ringing. It was definitely one . of his friends, probably Bob. They were going to plflY football, and now he didn't know where to meet them. The phone rang five times. He wondered what the average number of rings was in America before people h11ng up. Probably five. Sensing that it really was Bob, Tom ran back to the garage and hopped on his bike, which he always left facing outward for quick getaways such as this. He wanted to catch him pefore he left to play. Tom peddled through the low gears and flipped it into a higher one, to speed up the four block journey to the Thompson•s. After what felt like a two hour trip to a relative's house, Tom pulled into his friend's driveway and ran to the back door. He rang the doorbell and waited pretending to be calm though he was short of breath from the sprint to Bob's house and the anxiety of not knowing if Bob was home at all. \Hi Mrs. Thompson, is Bob here?\ Tommy rushed it out due to the shortness of breath, which he didn't want to do, and had tried with all his might to avoid. When the door opened he must have lost his GOOD NEWS! concentration. \Hello there Thomas, Robert is out somewhere on his bicycle,\ she replied politely, yet del ibcrately, slow. The Thompson's were very formal like that, which was part of the reason why Tommy didn't want to rush his words. Tommy then said goodbye to Mrs. Thompson, and was pedaling on his bike home. He was a bit v.robbly at first because he had let the bike remain in a high gear when he arrived at the Thompson's. Now he was really mad. Mad at his parents, his sisters, Mrs. Thompson--everything. Why couldn't he just have his own key! He slowly ·rode home, passing by the same people who he had just zipped past going in the other direction. He was embarrassed about it so he pretended that he didn't see them, though he knew he did. At home he walked the bike up the driveway, frustrated and angry. And hungry. Now he definitely had to wait. Tommy sat down unsatisfactorily on a chair in the backyard and began to pout a bit. After getting up three times in about ten minutes for a drink of water from the hose, he decided to get the lawn done. He retreated to the garage and pulicd out the old Lawn Boy, which his dad had bought a while back, but still worked great. This was the first summer that his father had let him cut the grass, and though he didn't want to just then, he was proud of the responsib iii ty. He always cut the front pieces first. so that if it s1arted raining or something happened (nothing ever did) at least the front would be done. He cut in long rows, ever so careful that the ,lines were perfectly straight, and that no excess grass was left on the lawn. He Continued on page 8 Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab tHU 010). . ·~ . . ~ . All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, '¥EDNESDAYS & FIUDAYS: FRENCH GERMAN SPANISH 1:30PM 3:00PM 4:00PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 ,pM JAPANESE .3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News is also recorded from M:orocco, Korea, and Italy and, upon req;uest, fro111. Mexico, Greece, and canada. O'f;:her programs may be av~ilable in tbe future. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. ordinariiy, they are kept in the lab for t11o weeks. For more info:rm.ation, call Janet Lenehan, Language Lab Technician, X62.l6. · .

Page 8 COJYCORDIENSIS, November .9, 1989. Waiting and Alone .. _. Contimued from page 7 would test the bag every so often to make sure it wasn't getting too full. The house faced the West, so the front was always the toughest part in the hot summerafternoon. Gradually the front was completed, row by row, piece by piece. Cutting the grass made Tommy {eel like a real American, a fanner. It didn't seem to bother him that his nei2hbors had gardeners and that his father insisted that they didn't need one. This was Tommy's land, Tommy's farm, and that was all that mattered. Before he knew it, the boy was in the backyard again, finishing up on the tough turns in the terraced garden reserve of the land. Tommy cut the engine, and exhaled a breath of satisfaction at his effort. \Well that's i)ne job that's done,\ he concluded aloud, as if he were talking to his own son. His smile dried, though, when after packing away the machine and dousing himself with the cool water of the hose. he remembered that he was still locked out. He fell into the familiar lawn chair, and wondered how much longer his sister would be. The phone rang again. It didn't really bother him this time. and he even laughed at his thought. It was probably his sister calling to say that she would' be home late. Phone ringing in the background, Tommy walked to the front porch and ·lay down on a couch. The cross breeze from end to end cooled ~the sweat of the lawn and the sun from his thin body. He closed his eyes, and quickly began to doze off. He wasn't worrying about anything now, for there was no reason. He was the farmer, after a long day's work, home again after plowing the field. No worries. \Oh Tommy-baby!\ The boy jumped up, dizzying himself in the prQCeSs. \Hi Beth! I'm frigging locked out. Mom and dad left and ... \ \Oh poor Tommy,\ she broke him .off, \why don't we go get a movie and some . k?\ p1zza, o ... \Great!\ They walked into the backyard, and up the stoop. Beth took her keys from her- briefcase and reached for the door handle. It turned easily, without a key. She looked at her yeunger brother and smiled. \Aie you kidding me?!\ said the youth. Beth put her hand on his head and ruffled his already disheyeled hair. \Why don't we get some ice cream, too?\ •wwF •• SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE\'- FEDERATION NOTICE WINTER TERM REGIST'RATION Winter Term Registration will be held . m OLD CHAPEL, FIRST FLOOR W!1 at the Field House. Registration is scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday, January 3 & 4, 199C). According to Dr. Spock, ~reat:I;ing can be hazardous to your cbildrens health. II lllrcctl ons. When·mfcctionsarecotlpiL'!l with mitatinga11· !\lr JUIIullun h JIJ ~t'tJIJJld us: and II hurl ... rilll \l\ll I JIHIO..,I f'.uf.. lltll.lk IIUI!t' j)(IJIUI.IIIi'>JK'I ',,,.,, 1tllll.lll ,uhllh, polhlloUll.s (hC di1n1J1gC'IO youn~llln~:; b illll'IISI icd S< 1 lint Dr Si><Xk rcwnmwntls r.lll ur \\\\ .uultluu h'rl»lh oJ·cxpo'1llrt .\ lnllJ'•~r. \.Vh.< 1 1 lfltt .• 1\C' 't 0 W 1 I !lie 11 n·.~ 11 1 1 n:rm.uu~ 11 t tl.ml.l~l.' 1 \t!d!I!Ollftll~·.• .1,11thr·n .. ~d lilt: l,u!Jiic lnfonnntion OfliccoftllCSU'llll Chm ill1c. ttlldl'l It) ll.wl' ,Jnmrn._·,lwd r.llC nf re~op.lralory rr.~... liltd rnH wll.ll you (~.111 rill lt) help deal lhc ,m ~~. SIE~·:~~~··-~- CLUB f'uhitr 1 1fnrnl.l1tnn 1:m J-,tlk Slt\l'<'l ~.111 l'ntnnsro. Cuh!'ttrniil !J.II09 o.ll5/77ti.~22Jl FEATURES Homeward Bound • Colltinued from ·page 6 my bus should have been. I turned around, slowly, and .. looked at tpe people in the station. Now I was scared. After several frantic phone . calls, my problem was : S()mewhat cleared up. There was another bus I could catch, . it just came two hours later; which meant tw() hours of sitting among them. 1 decided to make the most of my situation, and try to do some of my work. I reached in my bag · t() get my book for my reading , assignment. I then put it back, · ·. reali~iilg that this probably . wasn't the best place in the wor1d to be reading the Bible. I opted then to read T h e · Origin of the Species, since it was just xerox. copies, and wouldn't look as obvious. • . The last thing I wanted to do · was advertise that I had functioning brain cells: I had to abandon that too, however, as I found it very hard to swallow among the company I was in. Evidently Darwin never hung around in a bus station. I decided it might be a better learning experience to just sit and observe some of the terminal creatures for a while, I was right . It must have been a big day at the bus stations that day. because I hadn't seen such a large collection of subhumanoids since the Brady Bunch reunion. I sat for 20 minutes watching one guy stare at his girl. He didq't blink at all the whole time. 1 didn't think that was possible, and I'd say it was a good bet that the girl was .hoping it wasn't. Later on, a freak in combat boots, a sealSkin coat. and a big wide brimmed. hat did several laps around th~ group .of seats I was in, and finally sat down a few sealS away from me. He began talking softly to himself, and then stuck his l¢g out. Then he brought it back in. Then · he stu~k it out. Then he brought it in. That bizarre ritual went on for some time. I believe it was some kind of .mating dance, but I can't be sure. I personally wasn't excited by it, · thank God,. but I don't know about anybody else. After what seemed like an ·eternity, my bus arrived at the terminal. I was first in line to flee the nightmare,of Albany. I got on tbe bus, grabbed a seat alf by myself, and then had a stunning revelation. I looked at the flocir.-It was clean. I sniffed the air; There was absolutely no trace of cherty sc~nted air cenditioning anyvrhere. I had stumbled up<)n a true oddity Of the transit world -.a clean bus. I jumpe<l up and yelled \Hallelujah!\, and got several sti'ange looks. But I didn't care. There were only five other .people on the busr I had a seat -to mysel~, and was in a clean environment. l was in heaven. I eventually made it borne safely. I was later tltan..I had planned, too late for a li,aircut~ and a little angry \lVer ~issing the bus in Albany, butJ was alive. I kiss.ed the grdlun4 when I got off tbe bus, which left\ a nasty taste in my mouth, but it was worth it. I was happy to be home. Maybe. someday, I'll take a bus agaill. But why tempt fate? THE SWEATER MAN RETURNS· TOMORROW! FRIDAY NOVEMBER lOth 9am-4pm ~THE ~\.SWEATER VENTURE ., Imports from the Andes . 783-1932 VISA, MC, AMX, Check w!ID Holiday Fund Donate to a fund which will p:rovide Holiday Cheer for loCal youth. Use the envelope in your mailb,ox on Friday. - .... - . ( ~ ~ ( a t j }:

. \ ' . ' CONCOR.DIENSIS, November 9~ 1.989 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Why Waste. I Why Not? By SUZANNE-· SHAKER Waste, waste, waste ... Americans have perfected the: art of wasting. Why do we bother to recycle om aluminum cans if we can not even tum the lights off when we leave a room? It is so easy to lose sight of how fortunate we are to live in a country with plentiful resources, a cotmtry in which heat, hot water and electricity are not lliXmi.es. We wake each morning knowing that a hot shower awaits us. Our water faucets are not guessing games. At home, cold is cold and hot is hot, but far away from our cozy country cold is still cold, but hot is not always hot and heat does not always warm our cllilly bo11es. WaJ.lio wall carpeting does not stretch beyond US. borders an.d foreign .electricity is weak in comparison. It· is not until one ventures outside of the U.S. and has the great oppottunity to experience another culture by living it that one is fully able to understand a foreign way of life. Spen~g a term abroad allows one to take a step back and view tile . American lifestyle from a new perspective. The pieces of our • ~ • ·> '<· own way of life fall i11to jJlace and the overall picture IJec()mes dearer. Spending a term: irr I tlly is far from roughing it, blUt liV'ing with. an Italian fandl'Y is definitely a: unique Ie.aming experience. · One short shower a d:ay is ·not the norm, but it is the absolute rule. The faJlliLies vve live with are not poor or s;tingy but Italy is. not a -w ealtlly country and water is sollletioles more precious than gold> Water faucets are never left mtlllilng or unattended., They .imve developed timed lights Cllld keep their homes pitch blaclk e:xcejlt for the rooms wh:ic:h are occupied. Just a~~: the Americans have perfe:etelCI the art of wasting, the Itali~ns ila\\le perfected the art ,of consavillg, for it the Italians do 1101 [;ave today they will have llO·tlling for tomorrow. The ItalEans do not have the same A.IO~ncan economic freedom. So what do we do \Witlh ou freedom? We waste it .. Til is freedom has allowe-d 111any Americans the l1ix11r:y of laziness. A quiclc flic:k e>f :tile wrist expends so little e11ergy, so why can't we tum tile -water off when brushing our teetl:t or I I f Hidemi Katatshi is visiting Union from Japan WATCH 60's and 70's Movies MONDAY nights, Winter Term even answering the phone'? Someday we might be in the same boat .as Italy; If. we conserved a ftaction of what . people in other countries must, just think of how we could help our economy. Perhap·s both the deficit and taxes could I come back to realty. '\ We nev:er appreciate what we have until we no longer have .it and then it is obviously too late .. So now being over here in Italy I appreciate the luxury of being able to drink gallons of tap water free of charge, turning· up the heat when my big toe gets .cold, ·leaving all the lights 011 in the house when I'm home alone, taking a fifteen minute shower and having soft toilet paper. But soon I will return to my normal American way of life and in a few weeks I will once again forget the feeling of not having. I will fall into th;e vicious cycle of waste Americans know so well. I will take for granted all that is plentiful but becoming scarcer. ~ It looks like the deficit win probably not decrease, taxes will continue to rise and the cycle will continue an.d continue. DO ITII WRITE for International Features ·INlERNATI.ONAL TRI'VIA 1. How many official languages are there at the United Nations? 2. What is the name of East Germ any's new President? 3. What European country aport from Britain has provided the most immigrants to Australia? 4. What symbol appears on more than 60 national flags? 5. What country did Winston Churchill call a \sleeping giant\? 6. How many feet high is the Berlin wall-- six, nine, or twelve? 7. What are the 1wo biggest cities in Australia? B. What communist country's two main newspapers are \Granma\ and \Juventua Rebelde? 9. Which agreed with the US most often in 1985 United National General Assembly votes -- India, the Soviet Union, or Yugoslavia? 10. Who was the leader of Nicaragua before Ortega came to power? DSOWOS 'Ol UO!Un .j.9!/\0S 9Lj.j. '6 oqn:) ·g auJnoqaii'J puo AeUP!S 'L . 8Aj9M.j. '9 DU!LlO ·g m .JS aLu ·v AIP-1·1 ·c ZUSJ>t U053 'l X!S 'l SJ8MSU'v' . ' * :~ :~'· ')'\: ~ 't: ~- ' 1 ' Mexican Teaching Assistant Rosa Maria Escoto Fernandez brightens up Carnegie. imlll~\ !iliii [II~- Language Tables College Center Monday 12:45 -1:45 French, Russian, HeiJrew Wednesday 12:45- 1:45 German, Japanese & Spanish luesday 11 :45 - 12:45 Chinese Thursday 11:45- 12:45 Italian

. - Page 1'0 IN'TERNATIONAL FEATURES ' .. ~-·u'. __ \:·_·. •L____I . -·:; . ~: e~­ GUIDE VELER'S While abroad, an American has many amusing (and not so amusing) experiences. A foreign city opens up a whole new arena of pleasures but can also offer some frightful consequences for those unequipped souls. Hopefully, the forthcoming insiders list of \do's\ and \don't\ will alleviate difficulties. WHEN IN LONDON ••. -Go to a good. English pub get a drink of beer and Yorkshire pudding with gravy. Experience the atmosphere. -Visit the queen- \I'm sure she'd be happy to meet you yanks!\ -Check out the Hippodrome night club where all the famous and trendy go. _ -Do order tea, with milk, and chocolate hobnob biscuits -When leaving London be sure to go to the NORTH of England to see the beautiful countryside, the lake district and YORK. -Remember to drive on the left, and look out for the little cars!! -Never fall asleep in Hyde Park. · WHEN IN PARIS -Experience a typical Fench Cafe, the Fougel's. A word of advice: Don't shout at the waiter even if after 30 minutes he hasn't noticed you. Be sure to ,give a tip or don't even think about coming back again. . -Attention to nonsmokers: bring gas masks or a fan - Everybody in Paris smokes. WHEN IN BERLIN -Go to the zoo - it's great! ·~ -_. Visit the Krenzberg area in order to get art authentic experience of Turkish culture and do eat their \Kebaps\. , _ . -. Do go to East Berlin. - But don't poke fun at the East Gennall guards that keep watch at the bQrder~ -· Don't even try to take East Gertna:g currency acr<>ss the Berlill wall to the West. -Don't get beaten up by tbe·punks in West Berlin (especially after having mentioned you're an American). . --· ·Don't confuse a \Berliner\ (a pancake, a local ~pecialfy there) with a Hamburger. -· Never ask the people of Berlin their '?Pinions on the Bavarians. WHEN IN JERUSALEM -Be sure to visit the wailing wall. -Experience bargaining at its best, in the Arab Shook,. in the section of the temple. ~o to an orthodox synagogue - The service is highly moving as well as culturally revealing. -Prices for silver and gold are really low. Don't forget to bring . ' -· Avoid asking a police man directions unless you have nothing else to do for the rest of the day. -Never go to the Arc de Triomphe during rush hour. -Always draw back the chair for ladies; while eating, rest both arms on the table. mom a present. . -Try a combination meal - pita, hummus, and phlll.affel, with a . cucumber and tomato sandwich, and Eitat chocolate for dessert. · Hopefully, you like the taste of chicken, since it is truly the only meat available. -In terms of night life, if you're dying to see a French actress or actor, go to \Le Bolin Douche\. If you want to meet people go to the ever overcrowded \Palace\; of you just want to have fun go to \Eceine\. -Don't forget croissants and brioche for your breakfast when yon are back home! WHEN IN ROME ..• -Get an ice cream wherever you are, but do it!· -Throw a penny in the Funtana Ditrevi, standing with your back to the fountain - 1 -coin, and you go back to Rome; 2 coins, and you get married; 3 ro-:ins and you get divorced. -Don't even look at lights at crossings: Just run for your life! -Take a walk with your best friend on the banks of the River Tevere, and on the Isola Tiburtina. -Go to dinner in Trattoria rather than restaurants; food spirits, and company are so much nicer! -. Be sure to visit the Musei Vaticani and to climb on the top of the Cupolone, the Dome of St. Peter's. -- Don't mess with the cats in the colosseum. . -Don't count on any sort of transportation schedule. A strike is a very popular activity for everyone. -If you are a very attractive female, don't ask an Italian man for information, or else you'll spend a whole day trying to get rid of him. -Don't eat any fast food, please ... You're in Rome! -Snap photos of the \lawn\, an approximately 8 by 10ft. patch ()f grass. The tour guide will be sure to proudly point it out (in case you overlook it), since the school is so proud to be able to .grow something green in the middle of this dessert nati()il. However be carefullest you be soaked by the sprinkler system which tends to come on unexpectedly. -Never drive on Shabbat, Saturday. -Beware of Shilshul - an unpleasant bowel reaction for those unaccustomed to the bacteria in the water. WHEN IN MEXICO CITY ••• -Go to Garibaldi after midnight to listen to a Mariachi band. -· If you want to enjoy a nice .dinner and at the same time view the city, go to the rotating restaurant atop the Hotel de Mexico. -If you want to be abused and trashed, ride the subway from 5 to 7. ...-For fun, visit the Disneyland of the third world ''Reino A ventura\. -Never walk alone at night if you're a woman. Als& never wear a mini~sldrt everybody will whistle at you. -Don't forget to try tacos and be careful with chilL -Don't forget to bring your water disinfectant. Mexicans and germs live happily together; but you will spend a night in the hospital if you don't take care. [)D ..•.. .. [a;§- =---.-· ~ . ~ . Chinese Film To Be Shown The East Asian Studies Program will show the Chinese film, Hibiscus Town, on Thursday, November 9 in College Center 406 at 6:30p.m. Hibiscus Town, the most recent film by well known Chinese director Xie Jin (who directed Two Stage Sisters, Red Detachment of Women) is at the center of the relationship between art and ideology in contemporary Chinese cinema. Based on the novel A Small Town Called Hibiscus, the winner of the 1982 Mao Dun ,Priz:e and the nrst novel to be translated into English after the cultural revolution, this film focuses on one remote small town as ami crocosm of the ups and d'owns of the 1950's, 60's and 70's. Through sheer hard work and frugal living, Hu Yuyin and herhusb~nd Guigui manage to build a new house. But this fulfillment of a dream brings them nothing but trouble. The devastng effects of ultra-leftism on the lives of ordinary people are here for all to see. . · . ·

CONCORDIENSIS, November ,, 1989 Page 11 INTERN A TIO·NAL FEATURES ·This Week In The World CQurtesy of The New York Times Soviet h11man rights campaigners are asking that the Government investigate the case of a rights advocate injured in a jailhouse fall. Family and friends suspect foulplay. · · · The biggest threat to the Sandinistas appears to be the nation's deteriorating economy. Some opposition .leaders accuse the government of raising the specter of war simply to distract from the hardships of daily life. · East Germany proposed a law that declares for the first time that every citizen · has the right to travel abroad or to emigrate. But after another surge in emigration, the measure seemed to attract little excitement Richard Nixon met President Bush-Sunday night to give a firsthand report . on his trip to China, • ·\Unless we can somehow get the people there to stop seeing their future so pessimistically, we'll have mii.lions or them coming.\ Andres von Bulow, a Social Democratic member of the West German Parliament. Supporters. <lf Gen. Michel Aoun trying to .storm the residence of the Maronite Patriarch Nasrallah Sf air .in Bkirki, Lebanon, as police seek to hold them back. Reports said that tile protesters tried to · force the Patriarch, who support~? Rene Moawad as tile new President, to kiss a poster of General · · Aoun. Utmrr=®® OUDDH1JruJll®§ caJ . cdJcaJ'Y' ·-~ ' . ' ./!'·~~- . -:::~.i:::~;;::=- ' - ~ ~:··· ':-. ·---~~=~< .. ··.i:~:.;L:~::. -._·_-_: __ .;:_.: .. ;· __ ..: -:~ -·-·. ~:~-: --~- -fi:::· Picas:so FRANCE (AP)_ Thi11teen works of art worth aba.ut $1 7 miUion have been stolen from the Riveria horne of Pabln Picasso's granddaughter in what police called one of he biggest art thefts ever. The works inciudcd two paintings by Henri Matese, a bust by August Rodin, an-d seven paintings by Picasso. Police will not reveal the Theft titles of the swlen works; however, the mastetpieces are impressive and well known and thus impossible to sell without being caught. A si11glc .thief, familiar with the house is suspected; the burglm- alann did not function, nor were guard dogs disturbed. Miss Picasso, the daughter of Paul Picasso, woo was estranged from the great artisL at death. refused LG comment. ALL SUBMlSSIONS FOR THE lDOL ARE 'DUE BY NOVEMBER 13th SUBMIT TO BOX #0123 w ::2 i= u.. 0 in w tl: Personal computers 37% 11% §

Page 12 CONCORD18NSIS, November 9' 1989 ··LETTERS -----Founded at Union College 1877--~--- Rules, or Compromises, Loopholes? Gen Ed. Provides Strength Rules are made to be broken. A better way to put this is that rules are made to define ways to.get around them, Loopholes in any system are always found to let people conveniently escap_e obeying rules. The more specific a law or rule becomes, the easier it is to get around it. The social policy offered to the Student Affairs Committee on Wednesday contains just such loopholes. To the Editors: In her letter Nov. 2, 1989, Christine Hong seems to be · objecting much more to the concept of the liberal arts college than to Gen Ed. Few · other alumni would wish to see Union transformed into the training institute for specialists . that her letter suggests she ' might favor. Most · academicians would say that majors are already rich·enough- - if not too rich-- for the ; purposes of the baccalaureate ~ degree. They would argue that the undergraduate major should not pretend to lay anything more than a foundation for the real specialization that is graduate study; that liberal arts .colleges exist to gi~e students the breadth of perspective that even the most gifted won't have been quite ready oo \catch\ dming their high school yeats (however strong their high · school curriculum m.ay have been) and that most wili never agai11 have the opportunity to capture once they get locked into the specializ~Etion of graduate study or a queer. Let there be no mistake about it; Union aims to be a no• compromise liberal arts college with a Division of Engineering. The new, more rigorous, -Gen Ed curriculum (WhiCh I personally, by the way, had only the most modest role in the design of!) strengthens Union as the lcin<l of institution most peo.ple want it to be, not as something else. Sincerely, Anton Warde Director, GenEd The social policy contains such specific guidelines for fraternities in regards to the purchasing and providing of alcohol, that there are obvious paths around those guidelines. Fraternities, according to the policy, would be restricted from purchasing alcohol with \money systematically collected from membership or the Student Forum.\ There are ways around this stumbling block. Monies can be collected through other methods. The policy also recommends that alcohol distributors be prohibited from selling or delivering beer on campus. This obstacle, too, can be skirted. For who can restrict an individual who is of legal age from going out to pick Gen Ed. Produces Liberal Minds up the beer? · In another recent change in social policy this community saw the implementation of required identification for entrance to registered parties. This is a valiant attempt by the Greeks to regulate who is in attendance at parties. The policy will invariably, however, effect only a minor percent of the parties that go on as one must realize that only a minor percent of parties are registered. The new New York State law to take effect in 1990 also offers loopholes. It offers an escape to those who provide alcohol for minors by partially relieving them of blame anrl placing it on the shoulders of the cC>nsumers. Specifically, fraternities that supply alcohol to minors on campus can find ways to elude much of the responsibility that would accompany any resulting problems. This social policy seems to be more a way of appeasing the Administration and bettering relations between them and the Greeks. With policies like these the Greeks look good on paper, but will und&'ubtedly look the same in reality. The habits currently practiced by Greeks will most likely continue to exist. However, with official policies to which Greeks may refer as efforts by themselves to change or compromise, the Administration may look at Greeks in a favorable light. Policies such as these are merely sugar coated ways to absorb pressures of an idealistic Administration. . To the Editors: committee are those who have \lived through\ Gen Ed, not After reading Christine Liberal Learners like myself, Hong's letter concerning. these positions will become General Education at Union, I more vital. felt compelled to :r:espond, due I object vehemertOy to the to my position as a student and remark that Gen Ed will a member of the Gen Ed subtract from the cllance for ~ Committee.· advanced study of the First, she states that the traditional college di~ciplines. curriculum was adopted with All categories found in Libera! little or no recognition by Learning are present in the Gen faculty or students. The Gen Ed Ed curriculum, thot~gh in · curriculum as it now stands challged form. Some was passed by the faculty by a requiiements· are stricter, but vote of 112 to 2. It is true that the intent is the same: to students could not vote on the produce ·a liberally educated implementation of Gen Ed, but Union· graduate\ By having why should we? Our graduation students pick a history requirements are dependent sequence and twocorrespondipg upon the curriculum under use . courses in litrature or at the time of our entry as civilization, an in~depth freshmen. Those of us who .knowledge of OJ).e area can be came to Union before Fall obwned. At any rate, it sure 1989 are in no way responsible - beats Liberal Learning where for Gen Ed requirements. It is ma11y stud~nt pick cou~~~s this year's freshmen, and those who come after, who will be affected by Gen Ed. It is their responsibility to acquaint themselves with the Gen Ed program at Union before entering, when they decide whether or not Union will N R h ,e R h serve their needs . . 0 US 10r · US TwomembersoftheGenEd Committee are students. We Pressure to participate in Greek life begins the moment are selected after submitting an students start their college career. In the past, Formal application to the committee Rush has taken place during the fall term offering limited on Committees, Just as time for new students to get acquainted with the Greek members- of other campus system and the different fraternities and sororities. committees must do. Our For those students involved ·in either a fraternity and tenure is two years in length, sorority, it requires a major time commitment and the same as that of the sacrifice. They believe that the portion of their college · · . Committee's faculty members. career which is devoted to the Greek system to be well The purpose of the student worth it. Yet, how many of these students fully members is to provide a - ed · h · student's perspective on all the recogmz JUSt w at was mvolved when they committed issues which concern the Gen themselves? Ed program. As time passes Formal Rush for sorority women concluded this past and the students on the Saturday night. Women had to make decisions which will l!ave a dramatic affect upon their future. How many of them had the sufficient data in ordet· to make a rational decision? How many blindly chose to devote their future time and energy to an organization which they knew so little about? The Student Affairs Council unanimously passed new Rush proposals which would offer potential rushees more time and more information on which to base their decisions. Rush has been moved to Winter term and procedures for orientation to Greek 1 ife will be implemented. By moving Rush ahead just one term, however, the school is not offering an adequate amount of time for a student to have full understanding of the Greek system's goals, demands and opportunities~ For students to fully recognize all that is involved with Greek life, and for them to find that particular organization which is right for them, it seems that more than a ten week period is needed. It seems that at least a thirty week peri()d is needed. Thus we need to stress there need not be .a rush for rush, let's wait until sophomore year. AIL LE'ITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMflTED TO THE CONCORD lEN SIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE . OVER FIVE HUNDRED I WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. because they're the \right\ letter. In addition, the study of foreign languages and rerms abroad are a far mote im!X)rtant aspect of the cprriculum than they ate in Liberal Learning. Both provide the opportunity for advanced work and the accumulation of . in-qepth knowledge. I have not covered all the issues raised by Ms. Hong, but l do hope that I hav.e enlightened not only her but the rest of tne Union community about Gen Ed. In the long run, the opinions of Liberal Learning students won't matter. It is reaction·of tlte Gen Ed students to the curriculum that will decide whetherGen Ed helps the College or harms it. Sincerely, Mary Jo Conley '90 = - 1 I t 2 ,

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November 9, 19S9 (l!nnrorhtrttsis -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Rules, Compromises, or Loopholes? Rules are made to be broken. A better way to put this is that rules are made to define ways to get armmd them. Loopholes in any system .are always found to let people conve11iently escape obeying rules. The more specific a law or rule becomes, the easier it is to get around it. The social ,policy offered to the Student Affairs Committee on Wednesday contains just such loopholes. The social policy contains such specific guidelines for fraternities in regards to the purchasing and providing of alcohol, that there are obvious paths around those guidelines. Fraternities, according to the policy, would be restricted from purchasing alcohol with \money systematically collected from membership or the Student Forum.\ There are ways around this stumbling block. Monies can be collected through other methods. The policy also recommends that alcohol distributors be prohibited from selling or delivering beer on campus. This obstacle, too, can be skirted. For who can restrict an individual who is of legal age from going out to pick up the beer? In another recent change in social policy this community saw the implementation of required identification for entrance to registered parties. This is a valiant attempt by the Greeks to regulate who is in attendance at parties. The policy will invariably, howe-ver, effect only a minor percent of the parties that go 011 as one must realize that only a minor percent of parties are registered. The new New York State law to take effect in 1990 also offers loopholes. It offers an escape to those who provide alcohol for minors by partially relieving them of blame anrl placing it on the shoulders of the consumers. Specifically, fraternities that supply alcohol to minors on campus can find ways to elude much of the responsibility that would accompany any resulting problems. This social policy seems to be more a way of appeasing the Administration and bettering relations between them and the Greeks. With policies like these the Greeks look good on paper, but will undoubtedly look the same in reality. The habits currently practiced by Greeks will most likely continue to exist. However, with offici a] policies to which Greeks may refer as efforts by themselves to change or compromise, the Administration may lC>ok at Greeks in a favorable light. Policies such as these Me merely sugar coated ways to absorb pressures of an idealistic Administration. No Rush for Rush Pressure to participate in Greek life begins the moment students start their college career. In the past, Formal Rush has taken place during the fall term offering limited time for new students to get acquainted with the Greek system and the different fraternities and sororities. For those students involved in either a fraternity and sorority, it requires a major time commitment and sacrifice. They believe that the portion of their college career which is devoted to the Greek system to be well worth it. Yet, how many of these students fully recognized just what was involved when they committed themselves? Formal Rush for sorority women concluded this past Saturday night. Women had to make decisions which will have a dramatic affect upon their future. How many of them had the sufficient data in order to make a rational decisjon? How many blindly chose to devote their future time and energy to an organization which they knew so little about? The Student Affairs Council unanimously passed new Rush proposals which would offer potential rushees more time and more information on which to base their decisions. Rush has been moved to Winter term and procedures for orientation to Greek life will be implemented. By moving Rush ahead just one term, however, the school is not offering an adequate amount of time for a student to have full understanding of the Greek system's goals, demands and opportunities. For students to fully recognize all that is involved with Greek life, a11d for them to find that particular organization whicll is right for them, it seems that more than a ten week period is needed. It seems that at least a thirty week period is needed. Thus we need to stress there need not be a rush for rush, let's wait until sophomore year. LETTERS Gen Ed. Provides Strength To the Editor£: In her letter Nov. 2, 1989, Christine Hong seems to be objecting much more to the concept of the liberal arts college than to Gen Ed. Few other alumni would wtsh to see Union transformed into the training institute for specialists that her let tcr suggests she might favor. Most academicians would say that majors arc alt'~dy rich enough- - if not toCJ rich-- for the purposes of the baccalaureate degree. They would argue that the undergraduate major should not pretend to lay anything more than a foundation for the real specialization that is graduate study; that liberal arts colleges exist to give students the breadth of perspective that even the most gifted won't nave been quite ready to \catch\ during their high school years (however strong their high school curriculum may have been) and that most will never again have the opportunity to capture once they get locked into the specialization of graduate study or a career. Let there be no mistake about it: Union aims to be a no- compromise liberal a:rts college with a Division of Engiaeering. The new, more rigorous, Gen Ed curriculum (which I personally, by the way, had only the most modest role in the design of!) strengthens Union as the kind of institution most people want it to be, not as something else. Sincerely, Anton Warde Director, GenEd Gen Ed. Produces Liberal Minds To the Editor~: After reading Christine Hong's letter concerning General EdtJcation at Union, I felt compelled to respond, due to my position as a student and a member of the Gen Ed Committee.· First, she states that the curriculum was adopted with little or no recognition by faculty or students. The Gen Ed curriculum as it now stands was passed lly the faculty by a vote of 112 to 2. It is true that students could not vote on the implementation of Gen Ed, but why should we? Our graduation requirements are dependent upon the cll1riculum under use at the time of our entry as freshmen. Those of us who carne to Union before Fall 1989 are in no way responsible - for Gen Ed requirements. It is this year's freshmen, and those who come after, who will be affected by Gen Ed. It is their responsibility to acquaint themselves with the Gen Ed program at Union before entering, when they decide whether or not Union will serve their Jleeds. Two members of the Gen Ed Committee are students. We are selected after submitting an application to the Committee on Committees, just as members. of other campus committee~ must do. Our tenure is t\'1/o years in length, the same as that of the Committee'~ faculty members. The purpo~e of the student members is to provide a student's perspective on all the issues which concern the Gen Ed program. As time passes and the ~tudents on the AIL LETtERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMfi'J'ED TO THE CONCORD lEN SIS OFFICE BY 4:00P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDlNG WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVERFIYEHUNDRED I WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. committee are those who have \lived through\ Gcn Ed, not Liberal Learners like myself, these positions wiH becmnc more vital. I object vehemently to the remark that Gen Ed will subtract from the chance for advanced study of the traditional college disciplines. All categories found in Liberal Learning are present in the Gen Ed curriculum, though in changed form. Some requirements are stricter, but the intent is the same: to produce a liberally educated Union graduate. By having students pick a history sequence and two corresiJOnding courses in litrature or civilization, an in-depth knowledge of one area can be obtained. At any rate, it sure beats Liberal Learning where many stud~nt pick cours_es because they're the \right\ letter. In addition, the study of foreign languages and terms abroad are a far more important aspect of the curriculum than they are in Liberal Learning. Both provide the opportunity for advanced work and the accumulation of in-depth knowledge. I have not covered all the issues raised by Ms. Hong, but I do hope that I have enlightened not only her but the rest of the Union community about Gen Ed. In the long run, the opinions of Liberal Learning students won't matter. It is reaction of the Gen Ed students to the curriculum that will decide whether Gen Ed helps the College or harms it. Sincerely, Mary Jo Conley '90 - - he de u w w a] te w cl w a T s B dl 0. tc u hi p: ti aJ 1 t

CONCORVIENSIS, N'Ovember 9, ·J989 Page 13 Make the Holidays Happy Please, No More PTA Speeches To t:be Editors: with little time for anything To the Editors: else. The pressure ofour duties 1 b four years at Union I have as coHe,ge students make it · This letter is written in heard many different ways. of seem as though nothing else , response to Jon Henes' article describing d'le student llody. matters. All I am asking for is on students and drugs that Unfortunately. the one word a couple of minutes on Friday · · appeared in the November 2 which is useci.continuaUy, and moroing. With help from Dean 'edition of Concordiensis. In with some truthfutness is, Mammola, each of you will . lieu of anything resep:1bling a apa(hetic. Students at Union, find · an envelope · in your · . rational or concise analysis of as a. ·group, simply do not get mailboxes on Friday. All you the problems and persons vefjl' excited about anything have to do is place thv &mount concerned, Henes' article whicl:r does not, bring them , of your ~hoice in the envelope, contains the kind of immediate gratification. With \ address the envelope to the · · sensationalism that leaves the th~ · holid;rys quickly Dean of Students, and put it in reader without any useful approaching, I am. asking the campus maUbox slot. If insight into the issues at hand. everyone to get excited about everyone gives just a single It would be helpful if Henes mak:ing the llolidays a Httle dollar, Union students alone showed bow student's behavior more enjoyable for some qm raise close to $2,000. With concerning drugs might peQple who may not otherwise facnlty involvement, we have a contribute to specific national receive that chance. chance to do some great things. problems or how student drug D'Uring the remainder of fall I w~s always lucky enough use detracts from a sound, term, I hope to raise money to have presents under the tree productive co 11 e g e which will be donated to area and a hot meal on the table on environment, but no such ch~ties. The money collected Christmas Day. Many kids are · commentary is ever given. wilL be divided equally between not so lucky. I am asking all Instead., he simply makes a Toys for Tots program, and of you to rally supporf for the vague generalizations, like lhe The- Christmas Program of program within your fraternity, student's choice between Scli.~nectady County Big sorority, sports team, and • getting high and \trying to Brothers/Big Sisters Agency. I dormitory and·hetp make the . make this country a better do not formally represenf either holidays a happier time for of tbese grouj)s, I simply want everyone. A gesture which . to give the Jnembers of the takes so little effort from Unhon co_mm11nity a chance to everyone can have such a help these great causes. positive effect. . I am fully aware of the pressures which arise at this time of year. Finals, theses, and other activities leave us Thank you, Christos James Nikolis '90 Cut-Throat in Intramurals To the Editors: .. place to live for themselves, for their kids and for the rest of Ametica.\ This kind .of speech should be resrved for addressing .grade school PTA's .and Miss America panel juges, not an intelligent collegiate audience. Henes never puts down the flag or gets off the bandwagon long enough to go any deeper into the issues he raises than this, In conclusion, Henes stats: \There is no answer to the drug problem.\ However, he shows enthusiasm for Bush's ''Drug Czar\ and what he has to say about it: \The white middle class user needs to be coerced, needs to be told that his behavior won't be tolerated.\ Is Henes really concerned about leading drug users away from abuse of self and society, or is he more interested in the government curtailing personal libe . ? . rues. • Drug abuse is ctJrrcntly a serious problem in this country and there are people in aU walks of life who abuse drugs to the detriment of themselves and others. I respect the opinions of Mr. Henes and do not entirely disagree with what he has to say. I do believe that Union students are capable of handling solid i11formation and should be treated like college students. Difficult issues like this one should not be presented in the same way that Nancy Reagan presents them to third graders. Fr0m the information given Ln Henes' article, there is no. evidence to suggest that there is a serious drug problem at Union College. There is not even any evidence to suggest that Henes ever set foot on the Union campus. The only thing that is indicated is thai Henes probably watches a lot of TV, which is certainly a harmful habit in itself. Brendan Pollock ·~1 On Sunda.y night our intramural -volleyball team weot up tg the field ho0use eag:er to play ou:r semi-final intrainural volleyball game. We entered the field house and were faced witb a situation that both upset and angered u:s for tw() reasons. Firstly, the nets were not properly set up and thel'e was no one who could obtain. the proper nets--to play witll. Both teams ended up wasting over ail hour sitting in the field house, waiting for an amwer from the \head of in~urals\ (who could not be con:tacted due to a busy signal on the phon~). The students in cha:rge were unable to make any decisions or take any responsibility on their own. extremely frustrated at having to wait, unable to contact anyone and unable .tb · · compromise. This. brings us to our second reason for being . a~mred. · Though an sports are competitive in nature, intramurals are .supposed to promote fun as well. Our opposition did not know where to <taw the line. They were not playing to have a good time, and if they were enjoying themselves, it was masked by their cut-throat attitude and yearning to avenge a two-year· grudge that they held against the team that they eventually played in the finals.. The attitude......of their team took away from the spirit that • intramural sports are supposed PRE-DOCTORAL POSITIONS M.I. T. OlD' team was f11lly ready to reschedule '.tile match at both teams' convenience but the other team was unwiiling to compromise. They told us that if -we left tile field hou:se it wo11ld be an. auromatic forfeit (Union College's. rule which we were finally informed of after a half hour of busy sig:nals). We were unprepared. to accept a forfeit but were tofoster. · Sincerely, Marni Ezra ;91, LiZ Wales '92, Kristen LaBrie '92, Heather Bobo '92, Ann Ramaley '92, Jill Traverso '90, · and Alyn Whelchel '91 P .s. Congratulations to the winners of the tournarnent!!!!! Molecular, Chemical, & Genetic Analysis of the Chemical-Biologic Interactions Related to Cancer & Genetic Disease Whitaker College of Health Sciences and Technology Graduate Program in Toxicology J?acuUy John M. Essigmann James G. Fox Steven R. Tannenbaum William G. Thilly Gerald N. Wogan Helmut Zarbl Area of Interest DNA Repair and mutagenesis Gastrointestinal microflora & endogenous carcinogens Chemical of macromolecular addocts; nitric oxide Mutational spectra; mechanisms & genetic epidemiology DNA adducts & genetic change in cardnogenesis Transformation effector & suppressor genes, oncogenes; gene expression Full support (stipend and tuition) is offered to all accepted candidates. For program information and an application, CONTACT: Debra A. Luchanin, Academic Administrator, Division of Toxicology, Room 16-330, M.I.T., Cambridge, MA 02139, (617) 253-5804. MIT is an Equal Opportunity Employer. j· I

CONCORDIENSIS, November 9, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Make the Holidays Happy Please, No More PTA Speeches To the Editors: In four years at Union I have heard many different ways of describing the student body. Unfortunately, the one word which is used continually, and with some truthfulness is, apathetic. Students at Union, as a group, simply do not get very excited about anything which does not briBg them immediate gratification. With the ·holidays quickly approaching, I am asking everyone to get excited about making the holidays a little more enjoyable for some people who may not otherwise receive that chance. During the remainder of fall term, I hope to raise money which will be donated to area charities. The money collected will be divided equally between a Toys for Tots program, and The Christmas Program of Schenectady County Big Brothcrs(Big Sisters Agency. I do not fonnally represent eifuer of these groups, I simply want to give the members of the Union co~mmunity a chance to help these great causes. I am fully aware of the pressures which arise at this time of year. Finals, theses. and other activities leave us with little time for anything To the Editors: else. Tllepressure of our duties , as college students make it · This letter is written in seem a~ though nothing else response to Jon Henes' article matters. A .. l!l r am asking for is on students and drugs that a coupleof minutes on Friday · ·appeared in the November 2 moming: .. With help from Dean edition of Concordiensis. In MammQla, each of you will lieu of anything resembling a find an envelope in your rational or coBcise analysis of mailbox.es on Friday. All you the problems and persons have to .Co is place the amount concerned, Henes' article of your ciloice in. the envelope, contains the kind of address t:he envelope to the sensationalism that leaves the Dean of Students, and put it in reader without any useful the campus mailbox slot. If insight into ~he issues at hand. everyotle gives just a single It would be helpful if Henes dollar, 1JIJion students alone showed how student's behavior can raise close to $2,000. With concerning drugs might faculty i11volvement, we have a contribute to specific national chance t.<J do some great things. problems or how student drug I was a.lways lucky enough use detracts from a sound, to have presents under the tree product i v e c o I I e g c and a hot meal on the table on environment, but no such Christmas Day. Many kids are commentary is ever given. not so lucky. I am asking all Instead, he simply makes of you to rally support for the vague generalizations, like the progratri within your fraternity, student's choice between sorority, sports team, and getting bigh and \trying to dormit()-ry and help make the make this country a better holiday~ a happier time for everyone. A gesture which takes so little effort from everyone can have such a positive effect.. Thank you, Christos James Nikolis '90 place to live for themselves, for their kids and for the rest of America.\ This kind of speech should be resrvcd for addressing grade school PTA's and Miss America panel juges, not an intelligent collegiate audience. Henes never puts down the flag or gets off the bandwagon long enough to go any deeper into the issues he raises than this. In conclusiofl, Henes stats: \There is no aflswer to the drug problem.\ However, he shows enthusiasm for Bush's 'Drug Czar\ and what he has to say about it: \The white middle class user needs to be coerced, needs to be told that hi.s behavior won't be tolerated.\ Is Henes really concerned about leading drug users away from abuse of self and so~:iety, or is he more interested in the government curtailing personal liberties? , Drug abuse is currently a serious problem in this country and there arc peopie in all walks of life who abuse drugs to the detriment of themselves and otlilers. I respect the opinions of Mr. Henes and do not entirely disagree with what he has to say. I do believe that Union students arc capable of handling solid information and should be treated like college students. Difficult issues like this one should not he presented in the same way that Nancy Reagan prcsenl'l them to third graders. From the information given in H~.·ncs' article, there is no evidence to suggest that there is a serious drug problem at Union College. There is not even any evidence to suggest that I kncs ever set foot on the Union campus. The only thing that is indicated is that Henes probably watches a lot of TV, which is certainly a harmful habit in itself. Brendan Pollock '91 Cut-Throat in Intramurals To the Editors: On Sunday night our intramural volleyball team went up to the field house eager to play our semi-final intramural volleyball game. We entered the field house and were faced with a situation that both upset and angered us for two reasons. Firstly, the nets were not properly set up and there was no one who cGuld obtain the proper nets to play with. Both teams ended up wasting over an hour sitting in the field house, waiting for an answer from the \head of intramurals\ (who could not be contacted due to a busy signal on the phone). The students in charge were unable to make any decisions or take any responsibility on their own. Our team was fully ready to reschedule the match at both teams' convenience but the other team was unwilling to compromise. They told us that if we left the field house it would be an automatic forfeit (Union College's rule which we were finally informed of after a half hour of busy signals). We were unprepared to accept a forfeit but were extremely frustrated at having to wait, unable to contact anyone and unable to compromise. This brings us to our se~ond reason for being agitated_ Tho11gb all sports are compe ti ti ve in nature, intramarals are supposed to prom<Jte fun as well. Our oppositio11 did not know where to draw the line. They were not playing: t() have a good time, and if they were enjoying themselves, it was masked by their c \It-throat attitude and yeamiiig to avenge a two-year grudge tllat they held against the tea.m. that they eventually played- in the finals. The . attitude of their team took away fr()m the spirit that intramll!al sports are supposed to foste1. Sincerely, Marni Ezra '91, Liz Wales '92, Kristen LaBrie '92, Heather Bobo '92, Ann Ramaley '92, Jill Traverso '90, and Alyn Whelchel'91 P.S. <:cmgratulations to the winners()[ the tournament!!!!! PRE-DOCTORAL POSITIONS M.I. T. Molecular, Chemical, & Genetic Analysis of the Chemical-Biologic Interactions Related to Cancer & Genetic Disease Whitaker College of Health Sciences and Technology Graduate Program in Toxicology Faculty John M. Essigmann James G. Fox Steven R. Tannenbaum William G. Thilly Gerald N. Wogan Helmut Zarbl Area of Interest DNA Repair and mutagenesis Gastrointestinal microflora & endogenous carcinogens Chemical of macromolecular adducts; nitric oxide Mutational spectra; mechanisms & genetic epidemiology DNA adducts & genetic change in carcinogenesis Transformation effector & suppressor genes~ oncogenes; gene expression Full support (stipend and tuition) is offered to all accepted candidates. For program information and an application, CONTACT: Debra A. Luchanin, Academic Administrator, Division of Toxicology, Room 16-330, M.I.T., Cambridge, MA 02139, (617) 253-5804. MIT is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

'. Page 14 CONCORDI8NSJS, November!), 1989 LETTER.S AND COMMENTARIES Racism: A Problem for All at Union To The Editors: Union College is one of the best colleges in the nation. The campus. is beautiful, the students are intelligent, and since the majority of the students are from America, our campus reflects the diverse attitudes and beliefs of America. Union College is a great place to grow intellectually, .physically, and mentally, but even though th-is campus is made up of the best of the best, it is not immune to society's problems. One of the biggest problems of our society is racism and our campus must face the issue that this problem exists. Racism has been discusssed a great deal this year, and of cours.e, racism is seen differently by black students and white students. · In the Union Sentinel there was an article with the title, \All Whites are Racists\. As a white st11dent at Union. who does not consider himself a racist, my first thought w~s \What?!?\ My reaction to the article was felt by many of the- white students, and although I usually believe feelings cannot be wrong, h this case, I think the reaction by the white students was wrong. Instead .of trying to understand the problem, many of the white students got angry or insulted. but if we think about it, the article wouldn't have been written if those feelings of racism were not in the air. In the play, \Before the Butterflies,\ Marina Bernard spoke about tile black student at Union College, and expressed deep emotion and hostility, relaying the message that the black students at Union College do not have a chance. As a white student, I always felt that at Union College this does not happen and that everyone is equal and treated the same, but I must have been disillusioned and been hoping for an ideal society. because Ms. Bernard would not have spoken so emotionally if this campus was free of racism. These .are just two examples of many occurrence and statements of racism on Union ·College. With these two examples happening, I decided to discuss the issue of racism with a black student, one on one, about these feelings, to help me understand the problem of racism on campus. The student said that every day white students look at him with disgust. He said that he has learned to \zone out\ those whites who hold him in contempt and who hold racist views, and therefore, he finds confidence in the black population of Union College. The student said the black students on campus stay together because there is no racism or prejudice between them, and they feel like they belong and that they share the same ·interests and views on life. Although my experiences in life cannot even be compared to those of the black students, and therefore, I may have no right saying this, I was brought up believing that things will change if people understand the problem that is in need of change, and if enough people are willing to t work at creating a better life. Living- in such a small, closed community, we should try to stop · all the feelings of prejudice and racism on this campus. Everyone on this campus is equa:l, whether being · white, black, Hispanic, Indian, Oriental, Jewish, Gentile, man or woman, etc., and we Should aU work to live in a community without prejudice. This is, of course, an extremely idealistic outlook on life, but there are many students on this campus who belive these ideas and want to better the campus and society.· Among ideas which I have heard discussed to better our community, is to have a mandatory class teaching the differences between the diverse cultures we have on this campus, and hopefully leading to a .better unders~ding of each culture. Another idea is to :. have small racially and · religiously mixed groups, witb . a professor acting as a mediator · to give the group structure, · with students discussing the · problems on our campus, to further our education, expand our minds. and understand the · differences between people. The understanding of all ouT differences is what can make . our campus an even better environment to spend four years. I am sure this letter will be looked on in many different ways, and although not everyone will agree with the views -in the letter, something · should he done. I believe that · the worst thing that can happen by trying to make things better, is that there is no change and you are no worse off than you were before. So, by working at making out college a better place to live, · things can only get better. · Why don't we all try to make · our home and our great · educational institution a better place to live and grow? Jon Heines '91 With intosh you can even do Madntosh\computers have always been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. ThroughJanuary 31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety of Apple~ Macintosh computers and peripherals. So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer. Without spending a lot more money. • • College: A Time for Change To the Editors: Studying in. York, England, I am thankful for the faithful delivery of Coacordiensis. It seems as tholJgh the Union community is accommodating a few new developments. I would like to offer some long~ distance insight on the nature of change~ The incidental occurrence of Carl Friedrich's October 19th article, \The Baltic States; A Time for Change\ and many -letters to the editor condemning his resistance to change, presents . an inconsistency that exposes the root of such resistance. From an academic perspective: I'm no History major, but rm sure that change has been haJ1pening for a long time. I have· enough physics experience to know that a thing will break if it is inflexible, and, as an English major, I am aware of Ki11g Lear's downfall (documented by William Shakespeare) brought on by his File New Open· .•. Close refus~l to tolerate .different views. Surely all academicians .. (including students) agree that theif w0rk thrives on the presentation .of new ideas. This atmosphere makes college the ideal place for change to begin, With a11 due respect to Carl's republicanism., I won't compare his views to those of ,; the Old Guard in the Kremlin\ that he mentions in his article. However. it will suffice to say that resistance to cba:nge anchors itself on out-dated beliefs that a,re eventually rejected by most members of society. The necessity of change applies to individuals, institutions (like colleges and fraternities), and political systems. Indeed, as Carl quotes the Estonian, \You have to fight for it,\ but the College Community, and the World, will be better once rid of the \Old Guard\. Dan Waible '91 SaueRs ... ••••••~••••••••~•••••••••••••••o••••••e••••••••••••••• Print ... •••~••••••••~•••••~•••••~••••~••••••••••o••o•o••••••••~·· Quit •• ·The Macintosh Sale. Now throqghJanuary 31. Union College Bookstore College Center' (

CONCORDlENSIS, November 9, 1989 LETTERS AND COMMENT ARIES Racism: A Problem for All at Union To The Editors: Union College is one of the best colleges in the nation. The campus is beautiful. the students are intelligent, and since the majority of the students arc froin America, our campus reflects the diverse attitudes and beliefs of America. Union College is a great place to grow intellectually, physically, and mentally, but even though this campus is made up of the best of the best, it is not immune to society's problems. One of the biggest problems of our society is racism and our campus must face the issue that this problem exists. Racism has been discusssed a great deal this year, and of course, racism is seen differently by black students and white students. In the Union Sentinel there was an article with the title, \All Whites are Racists\. As a white student at Union, who does not consider himself a racist, my first thought was \What?!?\ My reaction to the article was felt by many of the white students, and although I usually believe feelings cannot be wrong, h this case, I think the reaction by the white student<:> was wrong. Instead of trying to understand the problem, many of the white students got angry or insulted, but if we think about it, the article wouldn't have been written if those feelings of racism were not in the air. In the play, \Before the Butterflies,\ Marina Bernard spok~ about the black student at Union College, and expressed deep emotion and hostility, relaying the message that. the black students at Union College do not have a chance. As a white student, I always felt that at Union College this does not happen and that everyone is equal and treated the same, but I must have been disillusioned and been hoping for an. ideal society, because Ms. Bernard would not have spoken so emotionally if t:llis campus was free of racism. These are just two examples of many occurrence and statements of racism on Union College. With these two examples happening, I decided to discuss the issue of racism with a black student, one on one, about these feelings, to help me understand the problem of racism on campus. The student said that every day white s1udents look at him with disgust. He said that he has learned to \zone out\ those whites who hold him in contempt and who hold racist views, and therefore, he finds confidence in the black population of Union College. The student said the black students on campus stay together because there is no racism or prejudice between them, and they feel like they belong and that they share the same interests and views on life. Although my experiences in 1ife cannot even be compared to those of the black students, and therefore, I may have no right saying this, I was brought up believing that things will change if people understand the problem that is in need of change, and if enough people arc willing to work at creating a better life. Living in such a small, closed community, we should try to stop all the feelings of prejudice and racism on this campus. Everyone on this campus is equal, whether being · white, black, Hispanic, Indian, Oriental, Jewish, Gentile, man or woman, etc., and we should all work to live in a community without prejudice. This is, of course, an extremely idealistic outlook on life, but there are many students on this campus wilo belive these ideas and want to better the campus and society. Among ideas which I have heard discussed to better our community, is to have a mandatory class teaching the differences between the diverse cultures we have on this campus, and hopefully leading ~o a better understanding of each culture. Another idea is to have small racially and religiously mixed groups. with a professor acting as a mediator to give the group structure, with students discussing the problems on our campus, to further our education, expand our minds, and understand the differences between people. The understanding of all our differences is what can make our campus an even better environment to spend four years. I am sure this letter will be looked on in many different ways, and although not everyone will agree with the views in the letter, something should be done. I believe that the worst thing that can happen by trying to make things better, is that there is no change and you are no worse off than you were before. So, by working at making our college a better place to live, things can only get better. Why don't we all try to make our home and our great. educational institution a better place to live and grow? Jon Heines '91 With intosh you can even do Macintosh\ computers have alwa) 'S been easy to use. But they've never been this easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 111foughjanuaty31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety of Apple\ Macintosl1 computers and pclipherals. So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The .Macintosh Sale, you can \\ind up '\Vith much more of a computer. Without spenc.Jing a lot more moner College: A Time for Change To the Editors: Stuclying in York, Engla11tl, I am tllankful for the faitl!ful delivery of Concordiensi~. It seems: as though the Union community is accommodating a few new development<;. I would like to offer some IDng- distallce insight on the mtture of change. The- incidental occurrence ot Carl Friedrich's October l'9th article, \The Baltic States; A Time for Change\ and m<tny letters to the editor condemning his resistance to change, presents an inconsistency that expose!; the root o-f such resistance. From an acade·mic persp·ective: I'm no His1ory major, but I'm sure that change has been happening for a long time. I have enough physics experience to know that a thing wil'l i)reak if it is inflexible, and, as an English major, J am aware of King Lear's dow11fall (documented by WHliam Shakespeare) brought on b::y his . rite., , . . . ' .. - . New Open ••• Close refusal to tolerate different views. Surely all academicians (including students) agree that their work thrives on the presentation of new ideas. This atmosphere makes college the ideal place for change to begin. With alJ. due respect to Carl's republicanism, I won't compare his views to those of \the Old Guard in the Kremlin\ that he mentions in his articl:e. However, it wiH suffice to say that resistance to change anchors itself on out-dated beliefs that are eventually rejected by most members of society. The necessity of change applies to individuals, institutions (like colleges and fraternities), and political systems. Indeed, as Carl quotes the Estonian, \You have to fight for it,\ but the College Community, and the World, will be better once rid of the \Old Guard\. Dan W aible '91 ~N 000 ··············~······ ..•••••••••...•..••................... Saue Rs •.• ··~·············~····~·-····································· Print ... ••••o••••••••••••••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Quit 3€Q •• The Macintosh Sale. Now through january 31. Union (;ollcge Bookstore College Cente1· .. . . .· . . . . . ' . . ' ~ ~ : . . . ·. . . - . . . . '• . . . ~·.

' . .. ,. CONC(}#-J)lENSI:S •. Ntwember- 9 1 .,-1989 - SCIENCE & .T·EC·HNO:LOGY THE BlOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present DR. GARY IOVE'IT INSTITITIE OF ECOLCGICAL STUDIES (Millbrook, N.Y.) \ACID ·RAIN, OZCl\JE' and NUTRIENT LEACHING FRCM: FOREST CANOPIES \ Thursday, Nov. 9, 1989 4:40 P;M. Social Sciences Boom 11 2 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 Host: P~ Tdbiessen Schaffer Library - Extended Hours Sunday, November 12 , Monday, November 20 · The Library will be open from 11 P.M.. to 1 A .. M. lor studying only No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No r-e-ference desk services. Please h.elp us to keep food and drink restricted to the All Nigh.t Study area. - Union College Physics Pro!essor to Address NASA Sess1on A Union Col'lege physics professor whose work aided in the development of the Big Bang theory of the universe's origin will speak at a National Aeronautics and Space Administration science briefing preceding the Nov. 17 launch of the Cosmic 'Background Explorer satellite. Ralph Alp her Qf Niskayuna, NY, Distinguished Research · Professor of Physics at Union, will join Rober:~ Herman, a physicist at the University ·Of Te:xas at Austin~ in explaining tlte work they <iid jointly in helping establish the fo11ndation for tile Big Bang theory. The tall will be on N()v. 16 at the Western Space and Missile Center at Y andenberg Air Force Base, the site of the satellite launching. In 1948, Alpher and Herm~ ,predicted that if the universe began with a primal explosion, now called the Big Bang, then the universe should be suffused with dilute background ra.diation at very low temperature-- near absolute zero. Other scientists discovered and identified that radiation in 1965, verifying the Alpher- Hennan prediction. The Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) will be launched to gain more precise information ~ about this background radiation with instruments measuring in the microwave ami infrared frequenci~. References to the work of Alpher and Hennan are included in- an article on the history of the Big Bang theory in a glossy NASA . publication describing COBE. Their pictures appear along with photos of such scientists as Albert Einstein; George Gamow, with whom Alphcr and Hennan were collaborators; and Edwin Hubble. Besides his position at Union, A:lphcr is administrator and Distinguished Senior S c i e n t i st a t Dud I e y Observatory, Schenectady, and an adjunct professor of physics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Among his previous positions, Alphcr has worked as a physicist at J olms Hopkins University, Laurel, MD, and Corporate Research and Development at General Elcctriic Co., Schenectady. He received his bachelor's, master's, and d:octotal degrees from Gcor:ge W asllington University~ Washington, DC, which gave bim its Distinguished Alumni Achievement Award in 1986. The AIDS _Committee The AIDS Committee ofUnion College thanks everyone who contributed to making our AIDS/Sexually Transmitted Diseases Awareness week a success. We are grateful to all the speakers, panelists, students, administrators and contr·ibutors for fmancial supj)(Jrt. We give special thanks to the library, dean of.students office, food service, maintenance, security, public relations and the Chi Psi Lodge. AIDS Cpnference Committee Twitty Styles !IDd Karen Williams. co-chairs Union Colleae George Bntterstein Charles Casey Ethel David Virginia Dersch Nadia.Duvilaire LindaFtye Tonia EUsworth Karen(loos Seyfollab Maleld Joseph Mammola Michael Martinez Christiile McCarthy Eric Miller Sandy Mosher Rudy Nydegger . Linda Patrik: Eric Retzlaff Jody St()]lmack Carol Weisse Trish Williams David Wood AIDS Council of Northeastern New Yqrk Andrew Durham Winston Lindsay Wendy Shotsky Schenectady County AIDS Task F()rce Jack Cadalso Dr. David Rockwell Rev. Phil Cioppa Liz Schwartz Pamela Lee Ann Smith Kay Raycroft Terri Bronner Dorothy Reynolds Clifford Braitwaite, State Department of Health LaTanya Middleton, Arbor Hill Community Center Peggy King, Schenectady County Community College Fundin& bas been proyjded b).:. Beckman O~rporation Dean of Students Sciences Health Research Inc./ AIDS Institute Inter Fraternity Council Intemal Education Fund The Minerva Committee President John Morris Schenectady Foundation Ttla new CADD lab, recently opened in Civil Engineering. L. ·- \'~ •- ' 1 ..

), t ~· \ CONCORVIENSIS, November 9 1 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present DR. GARY IDVETT INSTITUTE OF ECOI.03ICAL STUDIES (Millbrook, N.Y. ) \ACID RAIN, OZONE. and NUTRIENT LEACHING FROY.I FOREST CAIDPIES\ Thursday, Nov. 9, 1989 4:40P.M. Social Sciences Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 Host: P. Tobiessen Schaffer Library - Extended Hours Sunday, November 12- Monday, November 20 The Library will be open from 11 P.M. to 1 A.M. for studying only No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No reference desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the All Night Study area. Union College Physics Professor to Address NASA Session, A Union College physics professor whose work aided .in the development of the 'Big Bang theory of the universe's origin will speak at a National Aeronautics and Space Administration science briefing preceding the Nov. 17 launch of the Cosmic Background Explorer satellite. Ralph Alpher of Niskayuna, NY, Distinguished Research · Professor of Physics at Uniou, will join Robert Herman, a physicist at the University of Texas at Austin, in explaining the work they did jointly in hel~ing establish tile foundation for the Big Bang theory. The talk wiH be on Nov. 16 at the Western Space and Missile Center at Vandenberg Air Force Base, t.be site of the satellite launching. In 1948, Alpher and Herman predicted that if me universe began with a primal explosion, now called the Big Bang, then the universe should be suffused with dilute background radiation at very low temperature-- ncar ahsolutc zero. Other scientists discovered and identified that radiation in 1965, verifying the Alpher-Hennan prediction. The Cosmic Backgrouad Explorer (CORE) will be launched to gain more precise information about this background radiation with instruments measudng in the microwave and infrared frequencies. References to the work of Alpher and Hennan arc included in an article on the history of the Big Bang theory in a glossy NASA publication describing COBE. Their pictures appear along with photos of .such scientists as Albert Einstein; George Gamow, with whom AI pher and Herman were collaror.1tors; and Edwin Huhhlc. Besides hi~ posi ti.-on at Union, Alphcr i~ admini sLialm and Distinguished Scaior Scientist at Dudley Observatory, Sc hencct.adiy. and an adjunct professor or physics at Rensselaer Poly tee hnic Institute. Among his pr~v iou~ positiolils, Alphcr has worked as a physicist at JClhns Hopkins University, Laurel, MD, and Corporate Research and Development at General Elcctriic Co., Scllenect.ady. He received his bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degree~ from George Wasliington University, Wash in gte-n, DC. which gave ilim its Distinguished A Jumni Achievement Award in 1986. The AIDS CoiniTiittee The AIDS Committee of Union College thanks everyone who contributed to making ()ur AIDS/Sexually Transmitted Diseases Awareness week a success. We are grateful to all the speakers, panelists, students, administrators and contributors ro.- financial support. We give special thanks to the library, dean of students office, food service, maintenance, security, public relations and the Chi Psi Lodge. AIDS Conference Committee Twitty Styles and Kru:en Williams. co-chairs Union Colleg~ George Butterstein Charles Casey ElhelDavid Virginia Dersch Nadia Duvilaire Linda Frye Tonia Ellsworth KarenGoos Seyfollah Maleki Joseph Mammola ~ichael~artlnez Christine McCarthy Eric Miller Sandy Mosher Rudy Nydegger .Linda Patrik Eric Retzlaff Jody Stollmack Carol Weisse Trish Williams David Wood AIDS Council of North eastern New Yorls Andrew Durham Winston Lindsay Wendy Shotsky Ss:henectady County AIDS Task Force Jack Cadalso Dr. David Rockwell Rev. Phil Cioppa Liz Schwartz Pamela Lee Ann Smith Kay Raycroft Terri Bronner Dorothy Reynolds Clifford Braitwaite, State Department of Health LaTanya Middleton, Arbor Hill Community Center Peggy King, Schenectady County Community College Ennding has been proyjded by: Beckman Corporation Dean of Students Sciences Health Research Inc./AIDS Institute Inter Fraternity Council Internal Education Fund The Minerva Committee President John Morris Schenectady Foundation The new CADD Lab, recently opened in Civil Engineering.

I ' CONCORDIENSIS, November 9, 1989 - ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Your Personal Guide To Broadway By JULIE MEDOW I hear that you are going to be in New York City during the holiday break. Great! Please, take my advice and see a show either on or off Broadway. What should you · see? I'm so glad that you asked, because I've compiled a special lisn: for exactly that purpose. A lot of wonderful shows have just come to Broadway, and they have brought a lot of big names with them. I have chosen nine productions and divided them into three categories. Three are new musicals, three are new dramas. an<l three are long running musicals that have been around for a while. (This last group comd also be,called·\Sure Bets and Expensive Tickets.\) 0 .K. Let's start with the new musicals. The first is \The Threepenny Opera,\ which is a revival of the original Brecht- W iell production from the 1920's. You are not going to believe who stars in it. (Better than Billy Joel, not as hot as :Bono .... ) You got it! Sting. Seriously! I haven't heard great reviews about hi~ performance, but it's STING so who really cares if he's any good. If you see him in person you can brag to all your friends. Actually Union's Montebanks will be putting on their own production of 11 Threepenny\ ~ this winter, so it would be kintl r--------~-~----------~ 1 CLIP \N' SAVE I I I : WRUC 8.97 : 1 Music is a snowmobile jetting across the tundra, when suddenly it flies over, I I pinning you undemeath. At night, the alternative ice weasels come. Thank you. 1 I ARTIST TITLE LABEL I I I I 1. Poi Dog Pondering Poi Dog Pondering Texas Hotel 1 1 2. Flesh For Lulu Plastic Fantastic Beggar's I I Bfnquet 1 I 3. The Primitives Pure RCA I I I 4. Tracy Chapman Crossroads Elektra I I 5. Big Audio Dynamite Mega top Phoenix Columbia 1 I I 6. House of Freaks. All My Friends Rhino I I I 7. Bad Brains Quickness Caroline I I 8. Young Fresh Fellows This One's For The Ladies Frontier 1 I I 8.97 David Byrne Rei Momo . Sire I I I I of cool to compare the two performances. (Since I'm in the one on campus I don't want to hear that the Broadway version was better. Thanks.} The· musical has an interesting plot; murder, prostitution, beggars, all the fun stuff. You also know one of the songs. in it, entitled nMack The Knife.'' (Known to most American couc.h potatoes as \Mack Tonight.\ McDonald's T.V. jingle.) \The Threepenny Opera\ is playing at the Lunt- Fontanne Theater. The .second and third musicals are also brought back from the dead. \Meet Me in St. . Louis\ has been revamped with ten new songs, but the storyline has remained the same. My mom loves this musical, so see it and make her happy. It opened last week at the Gershwin Theater. Steven Sondheim's \Sweeny TOdd,\ (similar to \Threepenny\ with it's gory greatness) has moved from off-Broadway to Broadway's Circle in the Square Theater. While I'm at it 1 may as well add another revival to the ~ist. \Gypsy with lyrics by Sondheim and music by Styne, opens November 16th at the St. James~ Dustin Hoffman is playing the role of Shylock in Shakespere's \The Merchant of Venice.\ It has been performed in London since May, and is moving to the 46th Street Theate!l on November 23rd. With a name like Dustin Hoffman, it's gotta be .good. Much letter than the Cliffs notes, at any tate. \Beside Herself,~' is a brand new drama .staring William Hurt and Lois Smitll.lt premie~ on October 17th. at. :the Circle Reperatory Company, put that is: certainly not the most exciting thing about tllis production. Hold on to youl' hats because I have .some very exciting news. nBeside Herself\ will be followed by four shorter one acts, tbe third of which was written by a friend of mine, Peter Hedges, who graduated from a small · theater conser\Jatory in South (or was it N~rth?) Carolina, was my playwriting teacher as well as thought provoking and I highly recommend seeing his off- · Broadway play. It is entitled \Imagi:ng Brad\ and it joins \Sun slhine\ by William Mastr()simone, Prelude to a Kiss:, by Craig Lucas and Jose Riveras \Each Day Dies with Sleep\ as the final touches to Joe Pitamo's \Beside Herself.\ Sounds like an action-packed eYeni~g. The final drama I would like to introduce to you is Jerry S~eroe.r's \Other People's Money.\ Affectionally called \OPM'• it is a not-so-far-from- the-truiDJ tale of a small Rhode Continued on page 17 I Eyebrow Raising Song o' the week - \The Colored F.B.I. Guy\ .. The Buttllole Surfers I I I AMERICA;N PICTURES Thursday, Nov. 9th 7:00pm SS01'6 Free Ad:m,ission ··Sponsored by: I Station News; B-1-N-G .. o does not spell M·U-S-1-C, or even P-E-N·l-S. It can I I spell V-I-N-Y-L goodies or even free com.pact Dmi·S-C-S. Stay tuned 1 1 for detail~. 1 ~----------~--~~-~----~ •' Students for Political Awareness & Action

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, November 9, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Your Personal Guide To Broadway . ' SCORPIO : Cross ,tfuose unus.qru ·. :fences and errotteotl$ ~hark fm tUll around the· tra\<Jk 111nce to · the word 11 dizZiy. n . SAGITTAIUlJ&t !t~&:time ag.a!lnr·1 those· · <get s·€ ).Ill' 1eon GEMINI: You ha'Ve a closet full of selves harboring over your head. If you'd just. stitk to <>ll~ ~~!!~~:.,r~~Q~ .. tc?~~.'o/~~·· .. really wn.nt:to heliJyoulre fl~py a~~;:;.::.;''•'·.: ··.·.· ..... · ••.•.. \ ... CANCER: This~ iS Jto ti!tie to .. Go to the laanacymat,. mag a '········~·.,······ and bring ioor quartet$« VmGO: I know you're getting d.< )WJlf';.Ut:\~~;:(1 is no time to start wallGwing itt u:· tOtlJ~U.'Q and ADAM an:Q.liv.e~li;¥f.livv!:. By JULIE MEDOW I hear that you are going to be in New York City during the holiday break. Great! Please, take my advice and see a show either on or off Broadway. What should you see? I'm so glad that you asked, because I've compiled a special list for exactly that purpose. A lot of wonderful shows have just come to Broadway, and they have bwught a lot of big names with them. I have chosen nine productions and divided them into three categories. Three are new musicals, three are new dramas, and three are long running musicals that have been around for a while. (This last group could also be c:alled \Sure Bets md Expensive Tickets.\) O.K. Let's start with the new musicals. The first is \The Threepenny Opera,\ which is a revival of the original Brecht- Wiell production from the 1920's. You are not going to believe who stars in it. (Better than Billy Joel, not as hot as . ' s. Bono .... ) You got tt. tmg. Seriously! I haven't heard great reviews about his performance, but it's STING so who really cares if he's any good. If you see him in person you can brag to all your friends. Actually Union's Montebanks will be putting on their own production of \Threepenny\ this winter, so it would be kind r------ --- -- ---- ------- • CLIP \N' SAVE I WRUC 8.97 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Music is a snowmobile jetting across the tundra, when suddenly it flies over, I pinning you underneath. At night, the alternative ice weasels come. Thank you. I ARTIST 1. Poi Dog Pondering 2. Flesh For Lulu 3. The Primitives 4. Tracy Chapman 5. Big Audio Dynamite 6. House of Freaks 7. Bad Brains 8. Young Fresh Fellows 8.97 David Byrne TITLE Poi Dog Pondering Plastic Fantastic Br.nquet Ptlre Crossroads Mega top Phoenix All My Friends Quickness This One's For The Ladies ReiMomo Eyebrow Raising Song o' the week • LABEL Texas Hotel Beggar's RCA Elektra Columbia Rhino Caroline Frontier Sire \Tile Colored F.B.I. Guy\ m The Butthole Surfers Station News; Bui-N-G-0 does not spell M-UmS-1-C, or even P-E*N .. J-S. It can spell V-1-N-Y -L goodies or even free compact D-I-S-C-S. Stay tuned for details. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~---------- ._ __________ _ of cool to compare the two performances. (Since I'm in the one on campus I don't want to hear that tile Broadway version was better. Thanks.) The musical has an interesting plot; murder, }lFostitution, beggars, all the fun stuff. You also know one of the songs in it, entitled \Mack The Knife.\ (Known to most American couch potatoes as \Mack Tonight,\ McDonald's T.V. jingle.) \The Threepenny Opera\ is playing at the Lunt- Fontanne Theater. The second and third musicals are also brought back from the dead. \Meet Me in St. Louis\ has :been revamped with ten new songs, but the storyline has remained the same. My mom loves this musical, so see it and make her happy. It opened last week at the Gershwin Theater. Steven Sondheim's \Sweeny Todd,\ (similar to \Threepenny\ with it's gory g~:eatness) has moved from off-Broadway to Broadway's Circle in the Square Theater. While I'm at it I may as well add another revival to the list. \Gypsy with lyrics by Sondheim and music by Styne, opens November 16th at the St. James. Dustin Hoffman is playing the role of Shylock in Shak.espere's \The Merchant of Venice.\ It has been performed in London since May, and is moving to the 46th Street Theater on November 23rd. With a name like Dustin Hoffman, it's gotta be .good. Much better than the Cliffs notes, at any rate. \Beside Herself,\ is a brand new drama staring William Hurt and Lois Smith. It premiered on October 17th at the Circle Reperatory Company, but that is certainly not the most exciting thing about this production. Hold on to your hats because I have some very exciting news. \Beside Herself\ will be followed by four shorter one acts, the third of which was written by a friend of mine. Peter Hedges, who graduated from a small theater · conservatory in South (or was it Nortll?) Carolina, was my playwriting teacher as well as thought provoking and t highly recommend seeing his off- Broadway play. It is entitled \Imaging Brad\ and it joins \Sunshine\, by William Mastrosimone, Prelude to a Kiss:, by Craig Lucas and Jose Rivera's \Each Day Dies with Sleep\ as the final touches to Joe Pitauro's \Beside Herself.\ Sounds like an action-packed evening. The final drama I would like to introduce to you is Jerry Sterner's \Other People's Money.\ Affectionally called \OPM\, it is a not-so-far-from- the-truth tale of a small Rhode Continued on page 17 AMERICAN PICTURES Thursday, Nov. 9th 7:00 pm SS016 Free Admission Sponsored by: Students for Political Awareness & Action ·i I ij

CONCI)RDIENSIS, November 9, 1989 Page lT ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT --· SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT Union .Colle·t:e Ton,ight· - ·saturday ·November 11th The Moun.tebanks ·and the Arts Department present \Before the · Butterflies'' at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Free tickets are available from Mountebanks Theatre (6153). Friday-Sund.ay, November 10-12 ... Field of Dreams 7.,. 9, 11 p.m. Wednesday, .November 15 - The Orchestra of the Eighteenth Century will pe:rform an all-Mozart program in Memorial Chapel. Frans Bruggen, who founded the Dutch- .. based ensemble. in 1981 is considered an expert in the performance of 18th century music. Tickets are $18 and $9 for students. Tickets are available at the door one hour before the concert& The performance begins at 8 p.m. . S,arato~:a Friday, November 10th - ''The Miracle Worker\ opens at Spa Little Theatre in Saratoga Springs. Other performances are November 11, 17, 18 at 8:15 and on Sunday November 12 at 2:00-p.m. Tickets are $10 & $12. For reservations call587- 4427 .. Albany Friday and Saturday, November 10th and 11th - Paul Geremia, a blues g11itarist, singer and song writer ~ill perform at Cafe Lena. Performances begin at 8:30. H A s R E A N E S Broadway .Guid~ Continaed from page 16 Island business trying to compete with the big buyers on wall street. I saw \OPM\ this summer and thought it was perfect for the 1980's economic and politically minded generation. Anyone · wfio ~s an economics major should see it ... you may learn a few helpful business hints. \OPM\' is playing off- Broadway at the Minetta Lane Theater4 I W();Uld like to .throw the names of three outstanding long running Broadway musicals your way before I leave you until January. \Les Miserallles\ \Phantom of the Opera\~ and \Je.rom~ Robbins' Broadway\ are all worth seeing as long as you can get the tickets. I suggest calling Ticketron in advance in order to ensure a.vailability. especially during the Christmas season. Another good idea would be to purchase a recent copy of \The New Yorker\ because the telephone numbers and addresses of all the theaters are listed under the theater section. The names of every show playing in New York, as well as every concert and art exhibit. are described there as well. I hate to admit it, but \The New Yorker\ is· an even better guide to The Arts_ than I am. But some day 1'11 show them •.•. . . --~ -----··\ -~ The 1989 Yearbooks are Here! For Sale in Room CC 408 $25.00 . The Bear Look Who's Talking Worth Winning TrueLove Phantom of the Opera 'Gross Anatomy Crimes and Misdemeanors Shocker Look Who's Talking The Fabulous Baker Boys Next of Kin Immediate-Family Second Sight .CallTheaters for Show Times. Campus movies . EXTRAORDINARY RESPONSE TO. · .. AN EXTRAORDINARY MOTION PICTURE. ' . \A MAGICAL AND MOVING RIDE. With its delicate mix of counter culture wit and traditional values. its a movie that could have been made only in the U.SA For viewers who leave their hearts open. the rewards are plentirul: - OIIVKI Ansc.n. NEWSWE:f.K MAGAZINE \H soars beyond dreams. It is a fantasy about belief, about hope. about fathers and sons. about a passion for life. 'Field of Dreams· is a mastenvork of wonderment:' -C.ent ShaLLnll::TODAYSHOW'NBC 1V KEVIN•COSTNER FIELD OF DRFAMS IPGl.~~ . CC~\ . ~~,RN~~JtAJnRJt~~ .. Fri-Sun, Dovambar 1 0-12 7, 9, 11 pm Discriminating people, you Liberal Arts graduates You've learned how to distinguish between ffiysses (highly intelligent, but devious) and Hercules (full of drive, but no gray matter). You can appreciate the differ- ences between George Washington and Benedict Arnold. You've cast an eye on the strengths and weaknesses of Leo Tolstoy and Mark Twain. In short; you have a solid understanding of Homo sapiens: You know what kind of animal he is, and whether he's likely to succeed or not. Yo11 know about \ square pegs in round holes. So why don't you join our executive recruiting firm The book says you've got to be extremely ambitious, highly motivated, enterprising, assertive and articulate- with impressive interpersonal skills. Not too liberal. Not too artsy. Find out more at your placement center. Submit your resume by November 13 to interview with us at the New York City Recruiting Day on January 29. Human Resource Management 535 Fifth Avenue, 32nd Floor, N.Y., NY 10017 (212) 867-2650 30 Vreeland Road, Florham Park, NJ 07932 (201) 966-0909

i: ' ' ~ il CONCORDIENSIS, No-vember 9; 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT Union Colle2e Tonight Saturday November 11th The. Mountebanks and the Arts Department present \Before the Butterflies\ at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial. Free tickets are available from Mountebanks Theatre (6153). Friday-Sunday, November 10-12 - Field of Dreams 7, 9, 11 p.m. Wednesday, November 15 - The Orchestra of the Eighteenth Century will perform an all- Mozart program in Memorial Chapel. Frans Bruggen, who founded the Dutch- based ensemble in 1981 is considered an expert in the performance of 18th century music. Tickets are $18 and $9 for students. Tickets are available at the door one hour before the concert. The performance begins at 8 p.m. Saratoca Friday, November lOth - \The Miracle Worker\ opens at Spa Little Theatre in Saratoga Springs. Other performances are November 11, 17, 18 at 8:15 and on Sunday November 12 at 2:00p.m. Tickets are $10 & $12. For reservations call 587- 4427. Albany Friday and Saturday, November lOth and 11th - Paul Geremia, a blues guitarist, singer and song writer will perform at Cafe Lena. Performances begin at 8:30. Solution to \We Give Thanks\ .--H-r-A-.--L-r-E- H A B I T ---B-.--A...--M,-A--, NON l OWED 0 0 W E A B p u A l s l E R E E R N E A N E S Broadway Guide Continued from page 16 Island business trying to compete with the big buyers on wall street. I saw \OPM\ this summer and thought it was perfect for the 1980's economic and politically minded generation. Anyone who is an economics major should see it...you may learn a few helpful business hints. \OPM\ is playing off- Broadway at the Minetta Lane Theater. I would like to throw the names of three outstanding long running Broadway musicals your way before I leave you until January. \Les Miserables\ \Phantom of the Opera\ and \Jerome Robbins' Broadway\ are all worth seeing as long as you can get the tickets. I suggest calling Ticketron in advance in order to ensUJ!e availability, especially during the Christmas season. Another good idea would be to purchase a recent copy of \The New Yorker\ because the telephone numbers and addresses of all the theaters are listed under the theater section. The names of every show playing in New York, as well as every concert and art exhibit, are described there as well. I hate to admit it, but \The New Yorker\ is an even better guide to The Arts than I am. But some day I'll show them .... The 1989 Yearbooks are Here! For Sale in Room CC 408 $25.00 Lim!ted Quantity ··>''The ······o····o·L l r' ... ··• . .'Sf•· .,. ··rlna· Deadline Tuesday 'Nov. 13, 1989 Bex: · 0113 · The Bear Crimes and Misdemeanors Look Who's Shocker Talking Look Who's Worth Winning Talking The Fabulous True Love Baker Boys Phantom Next of Kin of the Opera Immediate Family Gross Anatomy Second Sight Call Theaters for Show Times. LOtfJk For 's and, to•s Movies On ... ·Monday Nights - ·winter Term. Campus movies ''A MAGICAL AND MOVING RIDE. ~-. , - - With 1ts dE>licate mix d counter . / culture wit and traditJonal values. 1t:S a nmvie that c-ould have OO>n made I only m tilt> ll.SA For VIewers who leave their hearts open. th<> \\ ,,~::~,~~ ::~~::~~ \It soare bt>yond dreams. It is. a f<mtaw about belief. al:x,ut hDl,;.· about lathers and sDns. about a pa .... ~u m for lilt· 'Fit'ld \I Dn·am' · is a ma.')t~r.vnrk of wnmderment' KEVIN•COSTNER ==--- -·-------- . -- . FIELDOF DREAMS IPGlll ~ DO~~~\' ~ \~.~!~~:'LR!~!~~i . - Fri-Sun, novambar 10-12 7, 9, 11 pm Discriminating people, you Liberal Arts graduates You've learned how to distinguish between Ulysses (highly intelligent, hut devious) and Hercules (full of drive, but no gray matter). You can appreciate the differ- ences between George Washington and Benedict Arnold. You've cast an eye on the strer1gths and weaknesses of Leo Tolstoy and Mark Twain. In short, you have a solid understanding of Homo sapiens: You know what kind of animal he is, and whether he's likely to succeed or not. You know ahout square pegs in round holes. So why don't you join our executive recruiting firm The book says you've got w be extremely ambitious, highly motivated, enterprising, assertive and artieubtt>- with impressive interpersonal skills. Not too lilwral. :-..:ot too artsy. Find out more at your placement center. Submit your resume by November 13 to inlerYiew with us at thP :\\ l'\\ York City Recruiting Day on January 29. Human Resource Management 535 Fifth Avenue, 32nd Floor, N.Y., NY 10017 (212) 867-2650 30 Vreeland Road, Florham Park, NJ 07932 (201) 966·0909

Page 18 CLUB NE'WS Newman Club Activities Tuesday Night Supper - November 14th at 5 p.m. - All Union students are imrited to use meal card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC205 for .supper and conversation about December plans and winter term activities. Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the ch-urch to rehearse. Tutor.ing • Union College students can be used to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools, Please contact Sheila Humiston 3 72- 9231. Video Program . On tuesday, November 14th a.t St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are welcome to attend a video program \Jesus As I Know Him, Part 2: Believing in Jesus\ in which John Powell, S.J. shares his feelings about Jesus and what he means in Father Powe,il's everyday life. Study Guides and discussion questions will be provided. Bible Study/Prayer Group • On Tuesday, November 14th from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's School Library there will be a continuation of a study of the Gospel of Matthew. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS L«>.nely? Need a date? Meet that special someone today! Call Datetime (405) 366-6335. A Free Gift just for calling plus raise up to $1700 in only ten days!!! Student groups, fraternities and sororities needed for marketing project on campus. For details plus a free gift, group officers call 1-800- 950-8472 ext. 0. Spring Break 1990 - Indjvidual or student organization needed to promote ow Spring Break trips. Earn money, free trips and valuable work experience. APPLY NOW!! Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013. Would you like tc offer Dis(over Credit Cards?' Aie you available for only a few hours/week? If so, call 1- 800-932-0528, ext. 4. We'll pay you as much as $10.00/hour. Only ten positions available. CONCORDIENSIS, Noyember 9, 1989 ·cAM.PUS NEWS Attention H iring Government jO'bs. your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840-69 ;485. Call 1-602- 838-8885, ext. R7090. Word Processor for sale. Like a computer but much easier. REAL CHEAP!! CaH Dina, 346-281l,.after 5 P.M. AO'/ICE To AtESdMaJ ~l{f I. ~y 'BEtbl(E THE ·•~ll't. 'PL~Y \fi\PEO ~ME'$ \5/EbiE lbllS. 1h$ SET YoiJ ~~. '\lifE c 0 (I) ~ (}) Positions available in a downtown mental health agency operating residential homes for adults struggling with mental illness. Ideal for students. Weekends/and or overnights. Paid sleep time $5.1 0/hr. Send resume or phone· for application 374- 8424. Mohawk Opportuilities in Mental Health, 218 Nott Terrace, Schenectady. NY 12307. TI c <( ~1f]SJ f.l!l·~ l!lrn. c:J~·~·~ ..Y. -- ~ w >- __o 1- - X lU 0 z q:oo 1\M .. ).!;.Q~...o...::-·...J. • ARRiVE AT OFFlCt t.lo EXrr'S ~1'/ICE io Ft~~tES&tMEN 'P~trr f'ou~. • STAR£ AT .WI\LL. THIS WEEK AT THE COLLEGE CENTER Thursday, 11/9: East Asian Studies Lecture East Asian Studies Chinese Film Women's Group Meeting Friday, 11/10: American Pictures Workshop Saturday - Sunday, 11/11 - 11 I 12: Film- \Field of Dreams\ Monday,. 11/13: Student Forum Meeting SPAA Meeting Foreign Film Series IDOL Workshop Tuesday, 11/14: 11/9- 11/15 CC406. 4:00 - 5:00 pm CC406, 6:30 - 8:30 ·pm CC205, 7:30 - 9:80 pm CCAud, 9:00 - 11:00 am CCAud, 7~ 9. 11 pm CC409, 6:30 - 8:00 pm CC203, 7:00 - 9:00 pm CC406, 7:30 - 10:00 pm CC204, 8:00 - 10:00 pm CCAtrium. 4:00 \\ 4:30 pm CCAud, 4:30 - 6:30 pm Faculty Colloquium, ·Refreshments Speaker: Joseph Board, Topic: '!Judging the Judges: Comparative Judicial Resea~ch\ ; \Good Luck on Your Exam~~ Dinner Wednesday, 11/15: Dutch Hollow, 5:00 - 7:30 pm CC302, 5:00 - 6:30 pm CC409, 6:00 - 7:00 pm CC204, 7:00- 8:00pm Meditation Study Speaking Hands Meeting Aware Group 1\ljeeting Dutch Hollow, 8:00- 11:00 pm Room CC301 is Now Available Through' t~e End of Fall Term as a Study Hall. WRUCBingo Attention Studiers: ----- ·-~ -------- -·---· ·-· -- -- ---- --- ·-. ~----

CONCORDIENSIS, Nov~mber 9; 1989 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS: Jay, Sny ~ You are a mistletoe Geek! Titanks for being an awesome roommate. Don't forget New Years. Love in PKE! Don't forget · \The CLUB!\ Beth- You're the best slurpiEg, ·snorting, hair pulling,. bouncing, ape-grunting, pinata slamming, pelvic thrusting, bow-wowing, door-opening -friend I've ever had! I IDVE YOU! To all those amazing S D1''s · that were tbere f{)r me the other night - THANK YOU SO MUCH - I love you guys. You're the best!! ! Love,Jen I said it before and I'll..s;ay it again - Best friendships d()n't crumble nver the little Love,Me ·· Wags, To say you ate a God doesll't say enough. · From Someoae you're going to things ... I'ni so happy for you and everything's going n be fine. -DQ Tara, So, how does it feel tolutv-e a boyfriend thinner !hail y.cnl\l But, don't worry you clln still be in LOVE or vice versa. ' Lott ·liJid Rose Jill- D<>inga! Doinga! Doing;a! Angela. Alissa, Betb,. C()llette, andDonna- Omgratulations .Gaml)lia Pbi Pledges!! The sisters <Jll )'Out floor are psyched! Get relldy for at1 awesome year! Love: i11 PKE Beebs- I miss you. Thank you for being such an understanding ·friend and roommate. Don't worry, your tenn from hell is almost over. You're gonna make it. Love, BB C.C. and T.T., You guys are the best!! Thanks · for helping me thru a rough . . · time. I love non-objectiv~· roommates! I.T.B., S.C. Jenny.B, Tilt, Nance, Amy, AI, and Beth, Thanks for all the letters and postcards. You guys are great! I miss you all very much, and I'm looking forward to a GREAT spring term! -Sue B. WA.NTED Ambitious and enthusiastic person to promote Japaica's spring bl(\eak specialists •. Earn free travel and- extra cash. Great sales experience andflexible hours. Call l-800-426-7710 Kristin- 1 love you even thougli you hang ugly green things over my bed. Love, P-HEAD Ziggy, I miss you tons! Will you hurry up and get horne.? Can't wait for this winter . Love, Digit To all of my big brothers: Thanks so much for everything - You guys are the best. love,Jcn Lisa, This one~s.for you! Aslong as you know the average length and width ofa blue wllale's P ... you'll be O.K., beca11se . everythingelse is relative! Love,Jen Hey Titties (or is it cheeks!?) Have a great winter term. 111 miss you tons! What did you say? You want to come and play?? Luv,Bicky Weekly Crossword \WE GIVE Tft.A.NKS\ ACROSS 1 SaQl Josepha -· _: Thanksgiving Baw . \nationalizer\ 5 Nun's dress 10 Crimson Tide 14 Privy to: 2 wds 15 Upper crust 16 Was indebted 141 By Gerry Frey t7 \Over the Rivera~n.J Thru 1-=--+---tl--+--+- the Woods ... \ e_g 18 Turkey subsli1lft~: :Z wds 20 Droop 21 Umps 22 Body building ad'VCJce~ttJ: Circa 1940 23 Pilgrim'.s party 25 Frat party 27 SALT, eg 29 Turkey stuffer 33 Fail to pay bel 34 Anne Frank's:ttodt 35 Follows \WIN'\ !lOll \COR\ 36 Can do 37 Horse, bean or~ar. 38 -.-fixe: Fre11c:h 39 Nigerian native 40 Monikers 41 Slither 42 Mayflower's de~illlalion: 2 wds 44 \Thank God AI Ill I!Jhly, we're free~~\ 45 Belli, Kuntsler:lllle abrev. 46 Smooth the tul'ke'f feathers 47 Texas shrine 50 Peevish complaint 51 Coli. Football Assoc. 54 Follows the feast: 2 wds 57 Cornu~opia 58 Baseball family 59 Home Equities, eg 60 Length times width 61 .-. Pickens: Cowboy actor 62 From the beginning 63 Single bills DOWN 1 Snake sound 2 Celebes ox 3 \Courtship .of Myles Standish\: Author 4 Origin pt. of Mayflower 5 Iconoclasm 6 Up in the air 7 One sidedness 8 Belonging to it 9 Vietnamese New 'V.ear get to mow much better. Bif and Cork, I.. .. missed it. SuperDave. To SDT, I want to thank you all for a great time this fall. It was nice to get all the attention ,although lam psyched for my new pledge class. L()ve you all, Rachel Der Allie, O.K., I know you're dying to say it...\Youtold me so.\ I owe you an S. Love, Rurger Jen W.- Did we aslc f<>r your opinion· anyway? - a:nd you're skinny too.\ Danah- Will you narry me? Dear Amy UJd Laurie, 10 Feast of :Jewish harvest festival 11 Unauthorized absence 12 Flat-topped hill 13 Orange, lelllDJJ and gator 19 Verbose 21 Comes beflare \SKELLER\: Beer garden 24 Life of __ 25 SJ]oiled c:hitdren 26 Air: Prefix 27 \The Prince and the Pauper\: Author 28 Jewish teacher: Yiddish 29 Enjoyed the turkey 30 Tllanksgiving decoration: 2wds 31 Necessities 32 Salute 34 Faintly 37 Hair separatiDn 38 French river 40 No way, nula, 11e1Jer: 2 wds 41 \One smal1_._1or a man ... \: Neil.lrmstrong 43 Indian moner 44 Bust 46 \Comm11n Se11se\: Author 47 Trees of triJpical America 48 Calm before· the storm 49 To me: Fre11clt 50 Accountant's h1ilials 52 \nank Goli~lrni~idf we're at last\ 53 Collections D1 miscellaneous in1mrmatioll 55 United Natio11s org. 56 Negative pra:1iK 57 Mad money for the Tet Beck Page 19 You guys are the best! Thanks for always being there. We love you guys! Love, Liz and Michelle John, Nice talking to you. Julie Robin, Jill, Julie, Is it more imp. for it to be good, than not to have it at all? L,Lina 714 Union, Before we go, remember t<> take out your cards and say goodbye to Tom, Dick and Harry. Congratulations Anna Bess. Kim The One Immortal, You asked for it and now you've got it. I really admire your physique among other things. Love always, My Lord Brand, It won't be the same w/oyou . . L. Una Cath, You are the bestest roommate and friend in the world~ Amanda: When are we going_ to spend $89 being irresponsible at Manhattan? Do the waitresses use serving trays. so they don't trip over diners? Love.Kaz Dear Liz and Alicia, Congratulations, we love you! Love, Liz and Michelle To Delta Pledges, Congrats! We love you! Delta Love, The Sisters BECKY, I'll miss you so much! Have fun - and write lots of letters to your ONLY little sis! I'll make sure Dare practices his guitar ... Bon Chance, Au Revoir .. . Love. your little nightmare To the Sisters of SD1': We're psyched for a great year! Love, your '89 Pledges Rachel. Hope you're feeling bet1er. .Don't stress, you will get everything done. We love ya. Lauren& Jenn Woody, What can I say .. .I Love You! Becky

Page 20 CONCORDlENSlS, November 9; 1989 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Krissy, Congratulations! Don't worry- you're stuck with us. We love you! LB, JS, RT, AM Bif, That's gonna leave a mark! Rock MarkZ, Have an awesome break! What are we going to do without you up here next term? Please come for pizza (no peppers and onions for ex-editors though!) Hey 1021': It's been a greatterm! More to come in the winter from the wise one. Pearl, Pearl, Pearl: You gnys are awesome. We love you. B &J, What's the soup this weekend? Just remember \U.A.A.Y.A.C.\ When you decide to chain the door, wave to the ceiling fan and take a left at the wall- say \hi\ to A.K.A. Love, Minestrone Congrats Gamma Phi Pledges! You guys ar~ the best. Get psyched for an awesome, fun- filled year!! We love you. The Sisters Betsy M: I'm so psyched that you're my . little sis. You're awesome! Love in PKE, Megan P.S. I spelled it without an \e\ Linda, Congratulations! You are awesome! Get psyched for winter break. We'll have a blast. Love, your study partner and big sister Toadie- y ou're the best! That just about sums it up. Juts- . Welcome to the family, kid! It's going to be so much fun! (Maybe not as much fun as . riding the elevators, but we'll do our best!) Mamie- Who was that gorgeous guy you were dancing with at EX on Saturday night? Do you know if he plays hockey or what? Maybe he's just a coach - what do you think ..• Love,MK Eve, Lynn and Lauren- Thanks for all the butts and great talks in your room! I love you guys! Becky To.SDT: I'll miss you guys! Play with the pledges forme! Love, Becky Leslie M, We love you! Cheer up. We promise we will have a super winter term. Amy and Beth Dari- You're the best little sis- And my only! Don't forget to teach your little sis about Sam! Love, Becky Jill and Julie Brand - Have an amazing spring term together! I miss you already - Jill, we're psyched to inherit the house! I Love You! Becky Mr. Chauvinist - Our conve1·sation Sunday night was ... interesting. It looks like we'll actually be doing some studying after all, doesn't it? Lisa and Robin, Have a great time next term. Please don't forget to come back! We'll miss you. . Love, Gaby and Kerry If It Doesn't Fit Shiplt. Whether heading for college or home for vacat1on Mall Boxes Etc. USA Will get vour things i:nere safer. faster and all In one piece. we even pack vour boxes for voul Address and Phone Lisa, I'll miss ya! Have an amazing . time. Love, ELM Becky, We love you and will definitely miss you. Thanks for all the afternoon talks and late n~ght walks. Lookillg forward to a formal New Years. Have a great time. Poor Dave! Love, Lauren and Eve, Lynn. Denny, \I miss you a:lready\ (1988). Have a great tenn sweetie. Love, Jill Beclcy, Thanks for always being there for me! I'll miss you tons. I love you, always. Jill HeyJem- I heard you nave a new mountain-bile trail in your closet, er, room. The Brothers It's the end of the term but Christmas (poems) arc upon us. Brother blank, brother blank, broth-er ... ? Freddy, Do you know how to do your job? Strange things occur in international waters! Nat, F., & D: Here's to: tea, clogged drains, · portable clo-sets, knock loudly, making stupid machine messages, pasta and sauce, CJravel(}e~es,doooik,and random fumiture .. .it was fun, wasn't it? -k Julie G, Who wins the big boobs awatd? LoveLKS Lisa Stillman - Although I'm still upset with you, I hope you h!lve· an awesome tertn in London! I will miss you, and if you're lucky, I'll even wri.te! Leslie Leslie M. Rum & Coke m11cll? The kitchen at AD? Wllat NEXT? Larry in France- Contestant .#2 it was so good to talk to you. We cllll't wait for you to come back to rage with us. We miss you. Love, Lindsay, Julie & Jen Matt and Ben- As legal guardians of squirt, would you mind getting him. a passport for his 1ellll abroad m Greece and/or Israel? Don~t worry, he'll write! Troy & Rum & Coke - If you want me k>come home you better do S<>filething nice for the girls. I mi$ you guys but they treat me l)etter than you ever didr they beat California girls ~Y day and drink Bicardi with their coke! Squirt November 9th: · Why is that date familiar? Oh, its only the date ()f the last Concordiensis! (Just kidding Amy.- I know w11at Nov. 9th is! Happy Birtllday!) Love ya,Les Gwen, Good luck! You'tl do ID awesome job. Chris, -T. \Maybe you'll get lucl:y!\' -Spoken by the Unlcnown, at Burger King. Hey Pop-A-Shot.-Que<lll· We 1 11 miss you up here! Eave a good life. This is an extra special edition just f<>1 you! ·· Love,.R.Reed& Sue D. Tammy and Nanc.y - Order of Omega! Waycto go you scholarly women. · Congrats! ·DDDG Congratulations DO Pledgest · Get psyched for an awesllme , pledge .period. · Love, 'Ihe Sisters Scary and Mountain, Oh, what a hellish temr <Jf doom, :aut don't worry .. it will all end soon, Winter tenn will soon be 11pon us, With thoughts of Hats'h Day in the process! Think Spring! -Ranger ¥/CJRlD . :\WILDLIFE FIDERlliON ® WWF It•s Black as and easy as White ·o··:···---~·· ·=· .... ·:: ' :: : Come to the~ CHUC room where you can use our new Macintosh·s or our Rainbow· computers. CHUC is located in the basement of Hurrlanities

\ CONCORDIENSIS, November 9, 1989 Page 21 <llnnror~irnsis SPORTS . . . Volleyball Ends Season Ranked Ninth In State By COACH GEHLING The New York State Women's Collegiate Athletic Associatio.n Volleyball Championships were held November 3 and 4 at SUNY- Geneseo. Union Colleg~ wa$ seeded 13tf:rout of a 16 team field. New York State has 41 volleyball teams that are eligible to apply for the 16 slots in the championship~ The Unioa College voUeyball team earned it's way i:nto the sta.te finals by its final season record (23-14). All 16 teams are seeded in the cl1ampionship .and they are also seeded in pool play, which is a method of getting into either the championship or consolation brac:ket. A team has to come out @f the round ro\)in pool play either number one or two to go into the championship bracket. Being seeded number 13 put Union at an immediate disadvantage as they h'ad to play teams that were seeded higher. The Union Volleyball team did an outstanding job of playing up to their abilities and beyond. Even though tb:ey came out 3rd in their pool, Union was very determined t<> play the best they could play in the consolation bracket. What mattered to the players was pride and coming out of the tournament with a higher seed than the one they went in with. The team came out ranked 9th in New York State out of 41 teams. That, to me, shows a lot of· class, pride, determination,. teamwork and above all, desire. Uni'on College students should be proud of the 10 young ladies who worked S@ hard all year long to prove that working together Is· wh.at aihletics and life is all about. To my volleyball players, I am very proud of you. Congratulations! Window of OpportUnity· Supen;Port Model 20 10.51b., 80~8 with.l floppy drive and a 20MB Hard Drive (order#- SupersPort Model 20) Z-159 Model 3 8MHz, Desk'fop, 8088, 640]( memory, with 1 floppy drive and a 20MB Hard Drive with a nwnochrome monitor . (order #-ZSM·159c3) Z-286 LP /8 Model 20 * Space saving 8MHz, 80286, 1MB memory, with 1 floppy drive and a 20MB Hard Drive with an amber VGA monochrome monitor #- Z-286 LP/12 Model40 .. S~ace saving l2MHz, 80286, 1MB memory, W1tb 1 floppy drive and a 40MB Hard Drive with a VGAcolor monitor #~ 16MHz, 386SX DeskTop, 1MB memory, 1 floppy drive with 40MB Hard Drive with a VGA color llianltor (order#- ZMF'-3l&.X4) Heather Wackerle -confers with coach after 300 yard breast str-oke relay. Swim Team Hosts Relays 0 z Continued from page 24 ~- beat their seeded time of 1:54:80 by swimming a 1:50:87. As for the final scores of the men Coast Guard Eli Academy took lst with 322 ~:c points, Potsdam was 2nd with a. 256, and New Paltz took 3rd with 212. .· . . . ' - ~ .....-. - - --...: - -- '\-\\ - It would be great to be able to mention everyone's name aud each person's individual best times, but since there are just too many talented athletes on both the women's and men's swim teams, Coach Susan Bassett was asked to sum up how she felt about the teams' performance. \Across the board,\ she said, Neverybody swam great! We've only been training in the water for three Three minutes a day is aU we ask ... UNITED WAY $1799. 00 $1400. 00 $1299. 00 $1099. 00 $1549. 00 $1149. 00 $2299. 00 $1849. 00 $2699. 00 $2299. 00 weeks. I felt everyone gave 100% of their effort. Overall, the swimmers did a terrific job; I was really pleased with the kids.\ We look forward to watching the Dutchmen swim mcrs tackle their next victim, namely Plattsburgh, in a coed dual meet at home on Saturday, November 11. The meet begins at 2 p.m., so come cheer on and support the team! Got Nothing to Do Except Study ... WRITE FOR SPORTS Come up to the Concordy _Office on Tuesdays and Meet the staff Gone, But Not Forgotten. \Inc pa~ngcr pigco11 The heath hen The Jahr.tdor duck. \lb~ C;uulina parJkeet. lbe list of extinct animals grows. \' ... ZDS Productivity Pack Includes MictoSoft® Word $100. 00 But it doesn't haw to. .. and Exc~l (order#. ZDS-10) The i':ational \'\'ildlife Feder.uion i~ working to !ki\\C endangered species join us while then:·s ~till time llw :-:ational \X'ildlif~ Federation. 1-t 12 16th Street, ;o.\\X' \Va.,hm~on, DC 20036-2266. For Mo:re Information Please Contact: ~ Union College Bookstore • {518) 370-6188 .~~~~~~~~~~.~~-~ J'tN.\N •Price~ <!o not i!)clude sales lax, handling and/or processing charges. 'MicroSoft I• a registered trademark oi MicroSoft Col'pOrl!,tion data systems Working for the Nature of Tomorrow.,. NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION

) '' Page 22 · CONCORl'XIENSJS, Nov~mber 9, 1989 SPORTS • Hockey Team Tops Elmira In ,Season Opener By ANDREW SEEWALD Dan Gould scmed on a penalty shot late in the second period to spark Union to a S-2 season-opening victory at Elmira Tuesday night. The start of the season was eagerly awaited by the Dutchmen players and fans alike, and the expectations for the team were high. Last night, Union went to the finals of the ECAC West tournament before losing to RIT and to the NCAA tournament before losing on home ice to Babson. The Dutchmen traveled to Babson to take on the Beavers this Saturday night at 7:00 o'clock. Tuesday night, the already great anticipation grew greater when the start of the game was delayed by almost a half hour when Elmira's face-masks did not comply with ECAC specifications. The Soaring Eagles wouuld have been forced to forfeit had they not been able to find acceptable equipment. In the spirit of competition and friendship betweel) the two head coaches, Bruce Delveuthal of Union and Glenn Thomaris, who run a hockey clinic together during the off-season, both sides looked for a solution to a forfeit. During the delay. the fans grew restless but the Union players were not bothered. \We try to remain focused,\ said senior captain Guy Logan, who would later focus on the net in scoring twice. \We took it in stride. It may have even helped us 1:0 get rid of our bus legs.\ Indeed, the Dutchmen found their legs after a three and one- half hour bus ride to play a strong game against a strong opponent That is, when they were allowed to play. A combination of some new rule interpretations and impatient whistles on the part of the referees resulted in 27 penalties between the teams. The second period alone saw 13 penalties called. leaving both the fans and the teams to rely on the scoreboara to monitor who was a man up and who was a man down and then vice- versa a few seconds later. Elmira captur~d the ECAC West championship in 1988, and even though Union beat· them 5-3 last year at Achilles Rink, this is a game that sticks out on the schedule. \There's no problem getting up against a team like Elmira,\ said Logan. \A win like this sends a message that we're for real.\ The win was even bigger because the Dutchmen did it without their leading scorer from the past two years. junior Terry Campbell. Campell partially separated his left shoulder during a scrimmage at Princeton. On whether he will be able to play on Saturday against Babson. Campbell said, \The final say is up to the trainer. It's stili a little stiff, but the way I feel right now, I'd say I'm going to play.\ The Dutchmen compensated for their co-captain's absence by giving more ice time to the top line of Craig Ferrero. David Moody and Logan. That trio cashed in for a trio of goals, and got the Dutchmen out to a 2-0· lead shortly into the second period. Logan scored on a wrapMaround shot with 1:22 left in the first period. It was a power-play goal assisted by Moody and defense man Peter Co1ier. Logan scored again 5:08 into the next period when he used his strength to dig the puck awayr from two Elmira ,players and out from along the boards. He then curled toward the slot area ami f:rred a blistering slap shot past goal tender Gerard Muscat The short .. handed goal gave; tlle Dutchmen a 2 goal lead. wtrich they would quickly relinquish. Goals by Joe Spinelli, on the power-play, and Matt Weir 2:26 a}Jart tied the game. They were also the only blemishes on Em otherwise outstanding game by senior goalie Ron Kinghorn. Kinghorn won 19 gamoes last year. and in making 27 s:aves Tuesday he seems to somoe :how gotten better since. For much of the final period, the J>lay was in Union's hand, but time and again Kinghorn hell.i his ground,. including several breaks and partial breaJcs that he stopped. Dan Gould had given Kinghorn a lead to .protect wheil, after Bernie Cassell of Elmira was whistled for covering his hand on the puck in the crease, the Dutchmen were awarded with the option of 1). power-play or a penalty shot. Gould was selected to take the shot and he did not falter. He held the puck on his forehand, then went to his bac:khand, sending Muscat to the ice, and·then back to his forehand and into the net. Moody and Nick Baratoff scotecl. in the final minute of the g&ne to seal the opening nigltt victory,~ After the game, Union looiked right ahead to Babson. \'Thiese guys put us on vacatio11 last year,\ said Logan. \That game has been weighing on our minds. Now we just have to 80 down to Babson and d<> the job.\ Support Union Sports Indoor Track and Field has begun The last-signup day is Friday, Nov. 10 Contact Coach Dave Herrington, X6547, 314 Alumni Gym UNION TRACK Talk Union Hockey Every Monday night at 8:30 p .. m. on SKATING DUTCHMEN W.EEKLY WRUC 89.7 FM The Dutchmen Sports Network Women's. X~C Keeps On Running By SAMMY While most other faH sports have finished their seasons, the · women of the crass country team keep t>n running. This past weekend the women travelled to the University of Rochester to compete in the U . ef R Invitational. The day was bitter cold, but the sun was .shining as the gun went off at · the start of the race. AU team . members went out especially · strong and fast in the first mile. with Lynne Erdman acto..ally leading the race for the first half mile. For those readers who are not up-to-date on the x-country · team, Lynne Er.dman is a post graduate who is running her first season of cross country. Erdman has proven herself to be a newcomer that other teams need to worry about. She has been the top runner for Union all season and a front runner in all the meets. Lynne finished 14th in overall on Saturday, with a time of 19:53, just off her personal best, Running second- for Union was co- captain Sandy Anselment. Sandy is a sophomore in h~r second season of x-country. She finished 23rd overall with a time of 20:33. Finishing next for the team was senior co-captain Jen Regan. Jen is the 'ancient' one of the very young team and . her experience shows. Jen has had a great season playing well on the team in all the meets. This.has also encouraged len to try her stuff on the indoor track · this coming year. Bot.II Jen and Lynne will be greatly missed next year. The next Union runner to cross the finish line was , sophomore Cindy Hunter. Cindy was originally only training for the indoor season but decided to give trails a try and join xpcountry. Since her first race~ Cindy has become an important ruv,~er for the team, gaining experience and im- pr<?_ving her time , with each race. This past weekend Cindy finished 51st overall with an impressive new personal record of 23:34. This weekend the women travel back to Rochester. RIT this time. for their next meet of the season, the NCAA Qualifiers. Good luck to the women as they finish off their season! For anyone interested in running Indoor Track, practices have started, but it's not too late to join. Contact Coach Dave Herr,ington at x6547. Deadline is Friday. ~ir Vesigns r:By •• JJ{if(K.i WALK·INS WELCOME 1689 VanVranken Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 NIKKI DiMATTEO CARM DiMA1TEO 370-5238 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CHRISTMAS . CHRISTMAS MONEY I·,*·· !VACATION YQ' ~ .. UNITED PARCEL SERVICE EMPLOYEMENT Full Time Days Part Time 4:30 A.M.-8:30 A.M. 11:00 P.M.-3:00 A.M. Monday thru Friday Till Christmas Help with Christmas Bills Applications Available at CDC andsetupan Appointment for an Interview. November 7 & November 14 or apply in person each Mondav between 10:00 A.M. • 6:00 P.M. at UPS Personnel Office 24 Avis Drive, Latham, NY 12110 (1st left cff Wade Road, .off Route 7) EOE M/F $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ '

CONCORIJIE.NSIS, Nol'ember 9, 1989 Page 23 <Hnntllrbirnzis SPORTs Running Dutchmen Show .M· . ·.o- .u·- fLI·n· _ -g .. Of.• f l.mprovement At State Meet . n - .· By CCM (30:47). By ANDY BRAVER The mood was definively looking \up\ at the informal meeting before the NY State Cross Country Championships held this past · Saturday in RQchester. Keeping the enthusiasm high was a chore in itself because two of the team's key runners were on the sidelines with injuries. The Ultimate goal Of the afternoon was to improve on last yew-'s embarrassing last place place finish in spite of the missing pieces and the brutally cold weather. impressive by any standard, it was a re.sult that was · .appreciated by those team members who struggled through last year's trying season. With tSome positive momentulll behind them, the team is looking forward to returning to Rochester this weekend to compete in the NCAA Q11alifiers. An acknowledgement must go out to freshmen John : Yes,. football fans, it is · Learned .and -Chris Ryan. Both . official! I have just been elected ran exceptionally well in their · to succeed Pete Rozelle as ftrst State Championship meet. Commissioner of the National A special thanks must go out : Football League. Now I would to Chris. A last minute . like to present to you my replacement, Chris showed the · agenda, the list of ideas and rest of us what it means to be a problems which I will and \team player!\ must attend with great urgency and lightning speed. Although it was · not a stunning improvement, the team upgraded its filial standing two notches to finish with 447 points; good enough for a l]th place finish. While it's true that 17th place is not Tops for Union, once again, was co-captain Mike Martinez who placed 54th, with a time of Z7:4l,l. SophomQre Greg · Barrett co.ntinued his string of exceptional' races by finishing 74th with a ·time of 28:20.1, a personal best. Dirk Gunther, starting to feel the effects of the long season, finished 91st in 29:0(), 1. Rounding out Union•s t<lp five finishers were co-captain Doug Martocci (30:17) ·and Rich. Zembek ADVANCE NOTICE The fi11al standings are not an accurate representation of how far tbis team has come in the past season . For the first time in recent memory. the · team bu.s was filled with conversation. Normally~ everyone goes to sleep so we don't have to talk to one another. This team bas grown together as friends and that is the first step to long term success in this sport. NCAA FOOTBALL. CHAMPIONSHIP IN THE EVENT UNION COLLEGE IS SELECTED TO HOST THE NCAA 1ST ROUND CHAMPIONSHIP GAME TICKETS. WILL BE ON PRESALE TUESDAY NOVEMBER 14 THROUGH FRIDAY NOVEMBER 17 AT MEMORIAL f.l ELDHOUSE TICKET WINDOW 9:00A.M.- 4:00 P:M. PRICES $3.00 STUDENT- UNION COLLEGE .A-ND OPPOSING SCHOOL STUDENTS ONLY (LAWN SE.I\TS AND STANDING ROOM} . $5.00 GENERAL ADMISSION -(LAWN SEATS AND STANDING ROOM) $6.00 RESERVED SEATING -BLEACHER SEATS (LIMITED TO 1500) THERE WlLL BE NO REFUNDS TIME OF GAME 12:00 NOON SATURDAY NOVEMBER 1 S., 1989 ACCORDING TO NCAA CHAJAPIONSHIP GUIDELINES, THERE WILL BE CLOSE Sl,JPERVISION OF ENTRY TO THE GAME. . THERE W[LL BE NO COMPLIMENTARY TICKETS. NO ONE WILL BE ADMITTED WITHOUT A TICKET ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE SELECTION OF THE HOST SCHOOL AND PARTICIPATING TEAMS WILL BE ANNOUNCED . MONDA\Y NOVEMBER 13, 1989 THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONTINUED SUPPORT OF UNION COLLEGE . ATHLETICS ~---~~--~--~----~-----------------d SPORTSLINE Hosted by David Sachar and PJ And-rejkovics SUNDAY NIGHTS This week's guest will be a member of the Dutchmen Football coaching staff 1) This first issue is one which has lost steam recently, not because of dwindling importance, but rather because a small step has been taken to make it a non-issue. The problem is the lack of minority hiring in the coaching and front office ranks. The small step was taken by Los Angeles Raider owner Al Davis when he hired Raider Hall of Farner Art Shell to coach his flound.ering franchise. However, this small step by Davis was also a giant leap . because Shell became the first black head coach in the NFL since Fritz Pollard coached the Hammond (Ind) Pros from 1923-25. It took a bold man to make the first move to hire a minority as head coach and now it has been made. Every other NFL team should follow Al Davis' lead and hire minorities to fill important positions like General Manager. where presently all 28 are white. I do not mean to suggest that minorities be hired just because a quota must be filled, but rather because there are great numbers of people who are capable. Take Green Bay Hall of Farner Willie Davis for example. He was considered for rny new job. He is obviously qualified. He deserves an opportunity in the upper echelons of the NFL. I am prepared to give him that chance, beGause I have decided to ask him to become Deputy Commissioner of the league. 2) After Willie takes office and we learn the lay of the land, our first major task will be to get the owners and players to agree on a new labor contract. they have been without a collective bargaining agreement since the strike of 1987 and that is too long. Many major issues, such as free agency, need to be discussed and resolved. The league should also make it policy to allow underclassmen te enter the college draft. The 80-player limit on training camp rosters should be repealed, And, most importantly, a trust fund must be set up for players whose careers end premati.Jrely because of injury. Players like Jeff Fuller and the University of Mississippi's Roy Lee \Chuckie\ Mullins [Old Miss wanted to raise $50,000 before their game against LSU this past Sunday. They didn't do it. They raised almost $250,000 from fan contributions.] should . have their medical bills paid for life. They gave everything to the game of football. and the game has left its lifelong legacy upon tllem. 3) Our next point of business will be to add to the NFL's current television -contract. The networks should be encouraged :to switch their live coverage between different games on important plays, or if another game is close down to the wire and the game one r:egion is watching is a IJlowout. Fans should not have to miss some of the NFL's greatest moments because of tile inflexibility of the networks. The league should also set a limit on the number cf cameras that can be used to CJover a game, as well as <letermine the fixed placement ()[the cameras in the stadium and on the field. It is unfair to those teams not playing Monday Night Football because the MNF coverage has more cameras than a basic Sunday afternoon game. This discrepancy adds to the instant replay controversy because additional cameras bring additional angles which can bring 'conclusive' evidence to the replay official. 4) This brings me to my next item. The instant replay JUle is going to stay. It helps the game a great deal more than it hurts it. How can correcting an incorrect call by the referees be hurting the game of football? 5) My last pressing item is expansion. The league needs to add two more teams to create six five-team divisions. It is true that the talent level throughout the league will decrease after adding another 90 players, but Tampa Bay and Seattle fought to respectability after they joined the league in the mid-1970s and each was at one point this decade one game away from a trip to the Super Bowl. After the expansion takes place, we must realign the divisions and conferences and make them geographically correct. That way more great rivalries will be created and the league will only prosper from the move. I have a few more points on my agenda, but they are not as pressing as the first five-- eliminate artificial turf, thereby eliminating many severe injuries; the addition of the two point conversion to add excitement and a new dimension to pro football; eliminate the extra week before the Super Bowl; and finally, rotate the Super Bowl to stadiums around the country, regatdless of weather [Weather decides countless regular and ]lOSt season games. Why can't it decide the Championship like it did in the 1967 \Ice Bowl\?] Ah, damn. I woke up. So much for my illusions of grandeur. It's too bad I can't do anything to help the new NFL Commissioner implement my ·proposals. I hope that Paul Tagliabue's agenda resembles mine, though. because the NFL is entering a new era and it needs the influx of new ideas to keep up with the everchanging desires of its fans and the times. Good luck, Mr. Tagliabue, you'll need it. -

- - -· ... fi1* Union hosted the fi.rst annual \Union Relays\ last Saturday. Tailback Ryan Mason scores one of hls 3 TDs in Union's 49· 6 win over Norwich. Union ls now #1 in the polls. The women placed 1st and the men placed 7th. Union Relays Its Swimming Talent By JAIMlE LIPSHER It may have been cold outside Saturday hut the only chill inside Alumni Gym was that of excitement as Union College hosted the first annual \Union Relays.\ A total of 24 teams particinated. 13 women's and 11 men's, from all over New York State, Vctmont, and all the way north to John Abbott College in Canada. The meet, which began at 1 p.m. and did not finish until 6 p.m., consisted of 20 relay cven1S each with two heats for the women and two for the men. Points were scored from 1st through 12th place out of a possible 16 entries. Although the one and three meter men's and women's diving events took place at SUNY Albany and not at Union, the results of the diving were incorporated into the final scores. Union sophomore Lisa Massamino and freshman Kristy Holbrook combined their efforts and took 2nd place overall in the diving. The women Dutchmen, who came in 1st out of 13 women's teams with a total score of 270 points, had several outstanding performances. The 800-yard freestyle relay represented by Dorse, Pizzuto, Cutrone, and Gan took 1st place with a time of 8:32:85. The 300-yard breaststroke relay swum by Dorsc, Wcckerle, and Joyce also captured the primary position with a time of 3:49:09. Another example of outstanding effort by the women's team carne in the 200-yard freestyle relay when O'Nci II, Walsh, Fe idler, and Kavaney Doated into 1st place in 1:46:12, beating their entry time of 1:50:00 by nearly 4 seconds and setting a new pool record. It should also be mentioned that within each relay, some individuals had excellent personal times. Captain Kathy Kavaney clocked in at 57.6 when she swam the freestyle leg of the 400 medley relay. Sophomore Amy O'Neill did her part in the 200 free relay with a 26.5 for her leg of the 50 freestyle. When asked how she felt about her time, Amy smiled ear to ear and said, \I want to get into the 25 second range and then I'll think about Nationals but for this early in the season I feel pretty good.\ The only two teams who really came close to challenging the women Dutchmen were the University of Vermont who came in 2nd with 256 points and Hartwick College coming in 3rd with a point total of 250. The men's swim team, who came in 7th out of 11 teams, swam very well against their tough competitors. The main focus for the men however was not the place they took but instead swimming their hardest to improve their relay times, and that they did. Shaw, Walsh, Zabka, and Wagshul stroked a 7:50:24 in the 800 free relay, shattering their entry time of 8:10:00. Also, the Dutchmen trio of Lynch, Walsh, and Shaw improved their butterfly relay time by nearly 7 seconds, finishing in 2:58:77. Finally, although the 200-yard medley relay consisting of Zabka, Judge, Lunch, and A vason took 7th place in the standings, they Continued on page 21 WOMEN'S LACROSSE MEETING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13 at 5:15 in ALUMNI GYM This is a MANDATORY meeting for ALL who are interested in playing Women's Lacrosse in the spring! November 9, 1989 Mason Stars As Union Grabs Top Ranking By ANDREW SEEWALD Dutchmen would add three was never in doubt and the Senior tailback Ryan Mason gained 129 yards on 21 carries to become the first Union player this decade to surpass the 1 ,000-yard mark in a season. He picked up the milestone yardage on his third touchdown run of the game, a three-yard surge, to give him 1,002 yards for the s.eason. Any one of those touchdowns would have been enough to top visiting Norwich last Saturday at Frank Bailey Field as the Dutchmen pummeled the· Cadets, 49-6. The win improved Union's record to 9-0. Coupled with previously unbeaten aad top- ranked Cortland State's 28-0 loss at Ithaca, the victory moved the Dutchmen to the top of the polls with one week to go in the regular season. The last hurdle standing between Union and the playoffs is Hamilton, which visits Schenectady on Saturday. The Continentals saw their record drop to 4-3 with a 30-28 loss to Tufts last week, but the Head Coach of the Dutchmen, AI Bagnoli, is not taking them lightly. After all, this is not the first time that Hamil ton has an opportunity to spoil Union's hopes for an unbeaten season. \It's happened once before,\ said Bagnoli, referring to the 1984 season when Hamilton upset his theretofore perfect squad, 10-3. \There are so many things that go into that game that the public fails to see. Intensity, emotion, tradition and rivalry are aU factors. Who would have thought that the Cowboys would beat the Redskins (this past Sunday)? There's no such thing as a gimme.\ If that's true, then last week's game against Norwich is about as close as they come. Just when it seems that the Dutchmen have put together a performance that can't be topped, they go out the next week even more dorninant. After a scoreless first ,quarter, Union scored four second quarter touchdowns to build a 25-0 halftime lead. The more touchdowns in the third biggest reactions from the quarter as they amassed their crowd came after the periodical largest point total and margin updates on the Cortland-Ithaca of victory of the seaoson. In its game, which were announced last five games, Union has over the loudspeaker. outscored its opponents 168- 15. Bagnoli sees the maturity in his team. \We're a young team, but we're no longer young experience-wise,\ he said. \The same players who were athletically gifted in the beginning of the season are still athletically gifted, and now they are seasoned.\ \Also we've been very fortunate with injuries. How often is a team able to play the same guys all year?\ Place-kicking is a spot where many different players have been used,\ but the Dutchmen may have finally found an answer to their only real weakness. David Flynn, a reserve fullback, made good on all four of his extra-point attempts and also kicked a 32- yard field goal in the fourth quarter which rounded out the scoring. The reason Flynn took so long to emerge as Union's kicker may have been the team's depth at the fullback position. \David kicked well in JV games and we knew he could kick in high school,\ said Bagnoli, \but he was our seventh running back so we couldn't bring him to some of the games. We probably should have gone to him two or three weeks ago. I feel confident in him.\ Union's depth at running back was well displayed on Saturday when seven different backs rushed for double figures in yards. Behind Mason's 129, Vladimar Telamaque carried 10 times for 68 yards and Tom Lombardoni carried seven times for 49 yards. Flynn carried once, gaining thirty yards. As a team, Union rushed for 348 yards on 62 attempts. Not surprisingly, Bagnoli commended the offensive line. Two weeks ago against Gettysburg, Union rushed for 356yards. The outcome of the game ••• All 95 players suited up saw action for the Dutchmen, including four quarterbacks. Starter Breu Russ completed 10 of 25 passes for 146 yards and a touchdown, and was intercepted twice. For the season, Russ has completed nearly 54 percent of his passes for 1,678 yards and 14 touchdowns. Russ has a shot at Tom Hitchcock's school record of 1 ,944 passing yards set in 1965. Scott Goodwin, David Sodergren. and Marco Mancuso succeeded Russ against the Cadets. . Saturday's game marks the IOOth anniversary of the first meeting between Union and Hamilton. The Dutchmen lead the series 43-38-12, including last year's 39~7 win. Dating back to last season, the Dutchmen have now won eleven straight games, two shy of the school mark set from 1982 to 1983. Ryan Mason's eight rushing touchdowns this season leave him two short of John Johnson's school record set in both 1983 and 1984. ; FOOTBALL RAN KINGS 1. UNION 9m0 2. Montclair 7-1-1 3. Ithaca 7-2 4. Hofstra 7-2 5. St. Johns 9-0 6. Trenton 8-0-1 7-1 0 are listed alphabetically 7. Alfred 7-2 8. Bridgewater 8-0 9. Cortland 8-1 10. Lowell 9-0 UNION HOSTS HAMILTON ON SATURDAY IN THE lAST REGULAR SEASON GAME

.. Union. Relays Its Swimming Talent By JAIMIE LIPSHER It may have been cold outside Saturday but the only chill inside Alumni Gym was that of excitement as Union College hosted the first annual \Union Relays.\ A total of 24 teams participated, 13 women's and 11 men's, from all over New York State, Vennont, and all the way north to John Abbott College in Canada. The meet, which began at 1 p.m. and did not finish until 6 p.m., consisted of 20 relay events each with two heats for the women and two for the men. Points were scored from 1st through 12th place out of a possible · 16 entries. Although the one and three meter men's and women's diving events took place at SUNY Albany and not at Union, the results of the diving were incorporated into the final scores. Union sophomore Lisa Massamino and freshman Kristy Holbrook combined their efforts and took 2nd place overall in the diving. The women Dutchmen, wh<Y came in 1st out of 13 women's teams with a total score of 270 points, had several outstanding performances. The 800-yard freestyle relay represented by Dorse, Pizzuto, Cutrone, and Gait took 1st place with a time of 8:32:&5. The 300-yard breaststroke relay swum by Dorse, Weckerle. and Joyce also captured the primary position with a time of 3:49:09. Another example of outstanding effort by the women's team came in the 200-yard freestyle relay when O'Neill. Walsh, Feidler,. and Kavaney noated into 1st place in 1:46: 12, beating their entry time of 1:50:00 by nearly 4 seconds and setting a new pool record It should also be mentioned that within each relay, some individuals had excellent personal times. Captain Kathy Kavaney clocked in at 57.6 when she swam the freestyle leg of the 400 medley relay. Sophomore Amy O'Neill did her part in the 200 free relay with a 26.5 for her leg of the 50 freestyle. When asked how she felt about her time, Amy smiled ear to ear and said, \I want to get into the 25 second range and then I'll think about Nationals but for this early in the season I feel pretty good.\ The only two teams who really came close to challenging the women Dutchmen were the University of Vermont who came in 2nd with 256 points and Hartwick College coming in 3rd with a point total of 250. The men's swim team, who came in 7th out of 11 teams, ; swam very well against their tough competitors. The main focus for the men however was not the place they took but instead swimming their hardest to improve their relay times, and that they did. Shaw, Walsh, Zabka. and Wagshul stroked a 7:50:24 in the 800 free relay .. shattering their entry time of 8:10:00. Also, the Dutchmen trio of Lynch, Walsh, and Shaw improved their butterfly relay time by nearly 7 seconds, finishing in 2:58:77. Finally~ although the 200-yard medley relay : consisting of Zabka, Judge, Lunch, and Avason took 7th place in the standings, they Continued on page 21 WOMEN'S LACROSSE MEETING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13 at 5:15 in ALUMNI GYM This is a MANDATORY meeting for All who are in1eresteq in playing Women's Lacrosse in the spring! .. ·- .. ~·· . Tailbaclk R1an Mason scores· one of .his 3 TDs in Unlon•s 49· 6 win o~rer Norwich. Union is now #1 in t:he polls. November 9, 1989 Maso~n Stars As Union Grabs Top Ranking By ANDREW SEEWALD Ih1tchmen would add three was never in doubt and the :more touchdowns in the third biggest reactions from the Senior tailback Ryan Mason .quarter as they amassed their crowd came after the periodical · gained 129 yards on 21 carries la:r:gest point total and margin updates on the Cortland~Ithaca . to become the first Union (lf victory oJ the seaoson. In its game, which were announced player this decade to surpass. last five games, Union has overtheloudspeaker. the 1 ,000-yard mark in a '()Utscored its opponents 168- season. He picked up the 15. milestone yardage on his third Bagnoli sees the maturity in . touchdown run of the game, a his team. \We're a young team, three-yard surge, to give him but we're no longer young 1,002 yards for the seaso11. eK:perience-.wise.\ he said. \The Any one of those touchdown~ same players who were would have been enough to to!\ athletically gifted in the visiting Norwich last Saturday- beginning of the season are · at Frank Bailey Field as the: still athletically gifted, and Dutchmen pummeled the:- now they are seasoned.\ Cadets, 49-6. \Also. we've been very The win improved Union~s; fortunate with injuries. How record to 9-0. Coupled with: often is a team abte to play the previously unbeaten and to]l- same guys all year?\ ranked Cortland State's 28-() Place-kicking is a Spot where loss at Ithaca, the victory- many different players have · moved the Dutchmen to the: been used; but the Dutchmen top of the polls with one week: · may have finally found an to go in the regular season. answer to their only real The last hurdle standing: weakness. David Flynn, a between Union and the playoffs. reserve fullback; made good on is Hamilton, which visits: all four of his extra-point Schenectady on Saturday. The: attempts and also kicked a 32= Continentals saw their reco:rd. yard field goal in the fourth drop to 4-3 with a 30-28 lo.s~ quarter which rounded out the to Tufts last week, but tile: scoring. Head Coach of the Dutchmen,. The reason Flynn took so AI Bagnoli, is not taking thelll long to emerge as Union's lightly. After all, this is not kicker ·may have been the the first time that Hamilto11 team's depth at the fullback has an opportunity to spoil p<Jsition. Union's .hopes for an unbeatell \David kicked well in JV season. games and we knew he could \It's happened once before,:\ kick in high school,\ said said Bagnoli, referring to tbe lhgnoli, \but he was our 1984 season when Hamilto11 seventh running back so we upset his theretofore perfect couldn't bring him to some of squad, 10-3; \There are S() the games. We probably should many things that go into that h.ave gone to him two or three game that the public fails ta. weeks ago. I feel confident in see. Intensity, emotion., llim.\ tradition and rivalry are all Union's depth at running factors. Who would ha'Ve l>ack was well displayed on thought that the Cowboys Saturday when seven different wo11ld beat the Redskins {this backs rushed for double figures past Sunday)? There's no sud1. in yards. Behind Mason's 129, thing as a gimme.'' Vladimar Telamaque carried 10 If that's true, then last week's times for 68 yards and Tom game against Norwich is about Lombardoni canied seven times as close as they come. Just for 49 yards. Flynn carried when it seems that the once, gaining thirty yards. As a Dutchmen have put together a team, Union rushed for 348 performance that can't lie yards on 62 attempts. Not topped, they go out the next 'SUrprisingly, ll agnoli week even more dominant. :commended the offensive line. After a scoreless first quarter. Two weeks ago against Union scored four sec011d Gettysburg. Union ·rushed for • • • All 95 players suited up saw acti<Jn for the Dutchmen, including four quarterbacks. Starter Brett Russ completed 10 of 25 .passes for 146 yards and a touchd<Jwn, and was intercepted twice. For the season, Russ has completed nearly 54 percent of his passes for 1,678 yards and 14 touchdowns. Russ has a shot at Tom Hitchcock's school record ef 1,944 passing yards ·set in 1965. Scott Goodwin. David Sodergren, and Marco Mancuso succeeded Russ against the Cadets. . Saturday's game marks the lOOth anl!.iversary of the frrst meeting between Union and Hamilton. The Dutchmen lead the series 43-38-12, including last year's 39-7 win. Dating back to last season. the Dutchmen have now won eleven straight games, two shy of the school mark set from 1982 to 1983. Ryan Mason's eight rushing touchdowns this season leave him two short of John Johnson's school record set in both 1983 and 1984. FOOTBALL RAN KINGS 1. UNION g .. o 2. Montclair 7-1-1 3. Ithaca 7-2 4. Hofstra 7-2 5. St. Johns 9-0 6. Trenton 8-0-1 7-10 are listed alphabetically 7. Alfred 7-2 8. Bridgewater 8-0 9. Cortland 8-1 10. Lowell 9-0 UNION HOSTS HAMILTON ON SATURDAY IN THE LAST REGULAR SEASON GAME ! I .. ·( ! I· f l j • l· I j l l i I I ~ ,I ~ ,.I quarter touchdowns to build a 356 yatds~ • 25-0 halftime. l~a.d~ .. T~~ .. , ... ,,::nt~ .. \9~*::poo.¢: Jb~..&~~··· w.-----.....,......._.~........,.\4 · ·· · -·

