\' ~~~~--~· ... T :h· . (',,e··, l ' : : .- ' : ' ' . ' '. onco,rdiensis. VoL. XXIV. PUBLISHED WEEK:LY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHEN'ECTADY, N I y. ·' ' 'DECEMBER 5, 1900. No. 1 o.

• ·, \ ' '' ' U ~. u· . ·t .QlOQ . · QlYQfSl y. !.I:DREW Y. ¥. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. D., P,restdent UNION COLLEGE, S~CHELVECT AD Y, N. Y. 1. CouFse Leading to .the Degre'e of A. B.~The usual Classical Course~ including .~.,rench and Germa.n. .After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course I.eading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern languages.a~e substituted for the ancient. and the amount .of Mathematics and English studies is increased. .After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is. offered. 3. Course I.eadilig to the Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the ..A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greek and the Sl:lbstitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. 4:. Gene:~.~al <Course Leading to the Deg.ree of B. E.- This coursP, is intended to give the basis of 2n engineering edu- cation, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the :profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course i:n English. 5, Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in. Sani- tary EngiueeriJJg for some of the General Engin.eering studies. 6. Elec-trical Course Lea{ling to the Deg:ree of B. E.- This differs from course 4: in substituting- special work in. Elec- tricity and its a;pp1ications, in place of some of the General Engineering- stuc1ies. '.rhis course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Con pany. 7. G1·a.dua'te Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of <J, E.-A course of one year offered. to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6~ There are also special courses in Analytial Chemistry, Metallurgy and Nat1:1ral History. For cata1ogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTl11ENT OF MEDICINE. Albany M:edical College.-Term commences last Tuesday in Septembei'. Four years strictly graded .course. Instructions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Ex:penses.-::Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $300; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10 ; laboratory course, each $10. For circular address WILLIS G-. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Scl10ol.-This department of the university is located at A..lbany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a build- ing wholly devotEJd to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.- Uatriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NEWTON FIERO, Dean. AL:BANY, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 1. 1! 1 or catalogue and informa- tion address DE B.A:UN V .AN AKEN, Ph. G .• Secretary, 222 Hamilton Street. ' . ' . When You Buy Furniture Look elsewhere-look here. Cmnparison is our delight, and the tnore you know about furniture the surer we are of making a .sale. Furniture for every use practical, dura- ble and surprisingly low priced. A. BROWN & SON, 302 State St. The Most Reliable •>+<• PATTON & HALL, 245 STATE ST.' SOHE.NEOTADY, N. Y. FOR HATS, CAPS, L .T Cl t FURS, TRUNKS, SUIT . . · u e gtr~~~ftf~: ~~~~~ . I I •. • . •.' INTOSHES, &c., Gop TO Dunlap and Stetson Hats 227 STATE ST. and Dent's Gloves. WILSON DA VIS1 ; Merchant Tailor. 237 Stat~ St. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . ~' ' - -~ ' .... ' . ,,•

·. ·, --------···ADVERTISEMENTS.-· · .....,....___ Onion Univ~rsity .. IIDREW Y. Yi RAYMOtfD·, D .. D. , LL. D., Prestdent u.'N. ,·'li·o· w· . · c·o:L· L·. B .. G. ·E· , -, : ,' . . . ' \I '.. . . . .. . .· ., . . . . : ' .: ,,. SCHEN.ECT ADY, N. Y. . l,. Cq~rse Leadhi.g to the Degre'e of ,A. B·\\\\:'The usu&l Classical Course, including French and German. after Sopho- more yea,r the work is. :larg.ely elective. ~. Course Leac:llng to the Degree of B. S.~The modern languag.es are su:Pstttuted for the ancient~ and the arnount ~f Mathematics and English stu~ies. is incr~ased. After the ·, Sophomore year a large. Ust Of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the l)egree .of Ph. :a.-This differs ·from the A. :a. coU;tse chiefiy ln the omission o;f Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in rnode:rn languages . and science. · · · .. 4. Gene:ra~ Cot;Jrse Le~,tding to the Degree <>f )l. E • ..,... 'l'b\s oou,rs~ is Jntended to give tbe basis.of .en engil:leering e~u­ catiQQ, mctud1ng the fundam,ental pr~ncmles of all spemal brancl:l.es of the profession,. a knowledge of botb Frencb and German, and a fliTl c~ml!Se· hi English. · . 5. ~auit~:ry Cou:rse Leading to tbe :Oeg:ree of :B. ~ • ..;,;;. Tbis differs .from ceurse 4 in t;ubstjtuthrg special work in. Sani- t~ry Engineering for some of the General Engi:ueeri:ng studles • . 6. Electrical Course Le~dlng t.o the Degree of :u. ,E.~ This differs from course 4: in sqbstituting spech;tl work in Elec- tricity and its. applications,. in place .of Soll1e of tbe Gene~ral Epg:ineering studies. '.Phis course is ofllered in co-(>peNttion with the Edison General .:Electric Con pany. 7. Graquate Co.m:•se in Engi:neering Leading to the Degree of C, E.\\\\-\ A course of one· year offered to graduates ~f courses 4, 5 .or 6, · . There .are also spechtl courses in Analytial Chentistry, ~etaHurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special mformation, address BENJ'AMIN l:I. RIPTON,. Dean of the College, . Schen-eotfl!dy., N.Y. DEPARTiWENT OF MEDICINE. .Albany Medcica:l College.~Ter:rn corp:menees last Tuesday in September. Four years strictly graded coq.r§le. In~tructions by lectures, tecitations, laJ::wrator,y work, clinics and practical demonstrations and opei'ations. Olinicaladv~ntages excellent . . E~pens~s.--MatricuJ.ation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100 ;, perpetual ticket, $3.00; g~adu~tion._fee, ~5; .dissec.tlng'fee, $10; laboratory course, eaQh no. For Cltcula:r address WILLISG, TUCKER;M. D.,.Registrar;Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Alb~ny Law SchooJ...-,...;Thisdepartrnent of the university is located ~t Albany, near the State Capitol. It occu.pies a build- ing Wb()lly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree o:C LL.B., is two years, ea.ch year is div·ided htto two semesters. Expenses.--Matriculation fee~ $10 ;. tuifi<;ttt fee, $100~ For catalogues or other information, address · ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NJWTON FtERO, Dean. AL~A~'Y, N. Y~ ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Etxercises held ln Alba:ny Medical Colleg.e. Annual lecture term ce.mmences Monday, Oct, 1. l!,or catalogue and informa- tion address .. . . . . . · DE BA.UN VAN AKEN, Pll~ G.4 Secretary, . 222 :aam.ilton Street. .. C ... ~~-··,· . . . . . '. -.- . ' . \ . .. . . ' ... ' •. 4t··· •.•...•....••.• •··.·•···• ••.••• ~~~~~~~~~~~· When ·You 8'1 Furniture . .. . .. . .. \. Look else'wnere- .. look her Comparison is ou.r de1igh and the more you kno·w abol furt1iture the surer we are • making a sale. Furuilu1 for every use practical, dut« ble and surprisingly l<.;r priced. · :A. BR·OWN: & SC 3 0 ~ State St .• Th:e M·o~st Reliab \ - -- . . ... ~r~ £G'\'\rJi\.·'\t~ ~~ { r .'-..J '-.._J· .1. ·~~ .. ~ ,J. .. .. >+..-e •.. PATTON & HA ' 24,5 .S'r ATE ST.' BO·HE.NEOTADY, N.~. F'OR HATS, C.AFS, L 'T,. ~ FURS, TRUNKS, SUIT • ' · • . . . .··· CASES, BAGS, CANES ' ' . UMBRELLAS, MACK'\\ ·•· •• .. •• IN'l'OSHES, &c., oo .. r:o Du.nlap ~nd Stetson Hats 22.7 ST. and Dent's Gloves. . . ' . . ' . W ..... ·oN· .. ·.AV .. . II.S :· ~ . D ·•··.··. · Merc.hant Tai!oi 237 Stat~ S.t.

- ' -1.'· I . !' , ------.ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 3 Intercollegiate Caps and Howns, ~~OTRELL & LEOJ:ARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated buUetin on app1ication. --- -====== WtiT HOT [)RE.5S WELL? Suits and Overcoats Custom or Ready-Made. TOUR CREDIT IS QO OD. Marcus Sau1, MEVEH LEHHBEI~G, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, ... Wholesale and Hetail... Coal and Wood. JJme, Cement, Plaster, Hai:r, Flour, I 306, 308 ancl310 Union. Feed, Grain, Ealed Hay, Straw 209 and 211 D()ck St, and Ji'ertilizer~. Scheu ectady, N, Y. == -_ ::.::c:. JOHN KRIDAl LADIES' & GENTS' T A..I:LO:Ea. --No.lOl Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made SuiU; and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired., rleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered, GO TO ''THE OVEN\ RESTA~UtRANT, BEST 25c DTN.BEll LN THE OI2'Y. OPEN DAY AND .HIGHT. Ladies' a1ul Gents' .Restauran-t. 443 STATE ST RE\E'F. SCHENEO'J'ADY, N.Y . SCHERMERHORN & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D.D.S., 156 JAY STREET, C. G. ORAF:T & CO., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY I N. y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Eoth \Domestic and Foreign Goods. Botham Carts. ------- SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE CoR. J Av. • 4 I I JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WH.!!::ESALE CROCERS, 218-222 State St. Tobacco, Grain and Provisions. The 1~en Eyck, ALBANY, N.. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and Europe an Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant am d Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. TO 4 p. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the satne managetnent.

_......_-----ADVERTISEMENTS.--- 3 IntercoUegiate Caps and :Gowns, COTRKLL .& LEONAE:D,. ALBANY, N. Y. IUustrated bulletin on application. WnT HOT DRESS WEL:L? Suits and Overcoats YOU CIIN: J)Q· IT EASIL I. Custom or Ready-Made. TOU~ CREDIT IS QQ·QJ). Marcus Saul, ME~ER LEHRBERG, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, ... Wholesale and Retail ... Coal and Wood. :Line, Cement~ Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union. ] 1 eeCI.,. Gl'ain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., .and ~ 1 e1·tilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made Suit~ and Jackets. Gents' Suits made \to o1·.ter. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at :reasonable prices. Work called fo1· and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'' RESTAURANT, BEST 25c DINNER IN THE CITY. OPEN DAY AND NIGHT. .:.L\'clies' and Gents? .Bestaurant. 4:43 STATE STREET, . SCHENECTADY, N. Y. · 5(.HERMERHORN & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Q.SCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 J.AY STREET, COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMiES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and REA.JJY MADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Botham Carts. SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WH.2LESALE CROCERS, 218-222 State St. Tobacco, Grain and .:P'rovisions • The 1~en Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and Eu1·opean Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaarant and Grill Room Spe·~ial Features H. J. ROCKWELL&; SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER D.AY, ()FFICE HOURS : 9 A. M. TO 4 p. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

• 4 Botell Vead.om,e ·To The Boy~ of 190l·Z·3and41 Refitted and Rifttrnished. Under New Manag-ement. . .. CALL ON •.. JI:lv.f: G AFFEES Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. • .. FOR vouR .. H. A. PECK, PROPR., ~onf~ctioaary, TaDacco an~ ~igars. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CASH 0~ CREDiri'. S. R. JAMES, 202-204 STA.TE: ST. CROCKERY, GLASSW.ARE, 511 Union Street. E. Pl. W EOT'E\'12\.L~~ NEW SDEf.ILER ~ ST 11TIONER. Magazine and Periodical ])epartment . IMPOQTED AND DOMESTIC CIGAQS. FURNITURE OF .ALL KINDS, TOBACCO OF ALL KINDS. HOUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-BRAC, ETc. 403 UNION STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. • • • <9HE • • • The Largest and Best Appoz'nted Hotel in the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. TATES' BO~T MOUSE. The Largest and .Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can · be rented for Private Parties only, in con- neetion with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTAN RESTAQKANT AND LQNtH R0011. 338 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Meal Tickets Sold. Best Inducem(m:ts to Students. Open from 5:30 A. M. to 1:00 A. M. WOHLBERG & ZEISLER, Props. C. H. Benedict, Manager. 'I'elephone 335. TUESDAY, DEC. 4.-Kelcey-Shannon. WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5.-Uncle Josh Spruceby. FRIDAY, DEC. 7.-Hanlon's ''Superba. '' SATURDAY, DEC. 8.-Uncle Ton1's Cabin .. MONDAY, DEC. 10.-''The Christian.''

i' I' The Concordie11sis \VoL. XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER 5, 1900. No. 10. KAPPA ALPHA REUNION. Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the Oldest Greek Letter Fraternity. Large Number of Alumni Present at the Various Exercises. The seventy-fifth anniversary of the Kappa Alpha society took place with the rnother chapter at Union last week. A large repre- sentation of alumni and undergraduates from the chapters was present throughout the few days. On Saturday evening, Novetnber 24, the exercises vvere opened by a large reception and dance in. Metnorial hall. A large number of friends a11d alutnni were in attendance. Memorial hall was very tastefully decorated with the fraternity colors and evergreens. Several large banners on which were inscribed \Kappa Alpha, r825-1900\ were hung upon the walls. The dance began early and closed at twelve o'clock. The patronesses \\-vere : Mrs. A. V. V. Raymond, Mrs. Charles Lewis, Mrs. Maurice Perkins, Mrs. Charles Linn, Mrs. I. I. Yates and Mrs. Lawrence .. Those present from out of town were : Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Cox, the Misses Smith, Patterson, and Francis; Mr. Don Ennis of Troy; the Misses Little and Warner of Rochester; Mr. and Mrs. Marcus T. Hun, the Misses Norton, Anderson, Kernochen, Jones, Stadt and Tucker of Albany. Besides this, the entire Williams chapter of Kappa Alpha and sections of other chapters. Those present from this city were: Mr. and Mrs. S. T. Eenedict, Mr. and Mrs. F. 0. Blackwell, Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Carey, Mr. and Mrs.· J. A. DeRetner, Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Dodd, Nr .. and Mrs. A. G. Davis, Mr. and Mrs. H. F. T. Erben, Mr. and Mrs .. G. W. Feather- .stonhaug-11, Mr. and Mrs. Fraser, Mr. and Mrs. Langdon Gibson, Dr. and Mrs. E.. E. Hale, Dr. and Mrs. F. S. Hoffman, Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Hanson, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Jenkins, Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Levis, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Lewis, Mr. and Mrs. S. L. G. Knox, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Lovejoy, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Moore, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Oudin, Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Paige, Mr. and Mrs. Hillsdill Parsons, Mrs. I. B. Price, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice Perkins, Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Pitkin, Mrs. Peissner, M~r. and Mrs. W. B. Potter, Dr. and Mrs. A. V. V. Raymond, Dr. and Mrs. B. H. Ripton, Mr. and Mrs. Hubbell Robinson, Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Rice, Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Stoller, Mr. and Mrs. H. R. Summerhayes, Mr. and Mrs. Gerardus Smith, Dr. and Mrs. H. G. Towne, Mr. and Mrs. N. W. Waite, Mr. and Mrs. Delancey Watkins, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. VanVoast, Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Viele, Mr. and Mrs. I. I. Yates, the Misses Alexander, Beattie, Maria Campbell, Madge Campbell, Fuller, Franchot, Mabel Horstn1an, Grace Horstman, Maude Horst- man, Hunter, Lewis, Kruesi, Linn, Miller, Paige, Price, Ostrom, Peck, Strain, Schoolcraft, Truax, Florence Veeder, Walkei~, Westinghouse, Susan Yates, Henrietta Yates, Margaret Yates, Messrs. Andrews, E. C. Angle, Prof. Eennett, W. R. Brown, T. B. Brown, H. J. Brown, Douglass Campbell, P. T. Clulow, Prof. Du11can, Prof. Eddy, G. W. Featherston.haugh, Jr., R. T. Gil- mour, F. W. Hild, Prof. Jones, Walter Kruesi, Paul Kruesi, Augustus Kruesi, Franchot Paige, Prof. Opdyke, W. W. Purman, Walter Peck, M. H. Strong, E. W. Strong, Everett .Smith, James Veeder, R. F. Warner, P. B. Yates, R. C. Yates, C. P. Wagoner, P. L. Merrin1an, L. J. Weed, H. C. Bothwell, Douglas Paige, Frank Smith, F. L. Stiles. OTHER EXERCISES. The Rev. Dr. Timothy G. Darling, of the Auburn Theological Seminary, a Williams \Kap\, preached the 1·eunion sennon at the First Presbyterian Church, Sunday rnorning. A section of seats was reserved for men1bers of the fraternity, though the sermon was open to all. Many availed themselves of this oppor- tunity. Dr. Darling preached au intensely interesting sermon, taking for his text the lines from Rotnans 14:7, ''F()r none of us liveth to himself and none dieth to himself.\ His closing words are of great import to fraternity men. \l trust I shall not be violating the proprieties

6 THE C'ONOORDIENSIS. of this servi~ce of worship if I keep in view the circumstances which has caused not .a few college graduates to come together at this time reverently to express their indebtedness and to mal\:e their thanksgiving for the tender associa- tions oftheir coUege days. With many of us now grown gray, the 1nemory of those days is still an impulse and an inspiration, out of which with the unfading splendor of a sun which borrows not its light, the radiance still is stre:am- ing. Much ofwhat is .. best and strongest and dearest in life dates back to the influence of noble lives that were not lived unto thetnselves. Many of those lives have entered into the blessedness of the Master's legacy to his disciples, 'Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given rne be with rue where I am ; that they tnay behold my glory'-thetnselves no sn1aU part of the glory of hirn who most con- spicuously lived not unto hitnself and died not unto himself. The tretnulous haze of mernory's perpetual Indian stunmer br()ods with .sacred sadness o'er their graves; but in our hearts and lives their never dying hearts are beating the warm blood of courage and endeavor. No man may say how much of what in us is best in sincerity, in effect, in helpfulness. God sees these men living on as truly, if not as efficiently, as they lived in their own lives. \Surely every social institution which invites men to give to it of their strength and substance should be able to vindicate to the moral judg- ment of tnankind its right to continued existence. Every social organization, in or out of college, should have some sort of a corporative con- science demanding that it be a. help and not a menace to a higher type of living, a type of life wot·thy of man's dignified place in creation. The influence and attnosphere of a family or a society is apt to control towards its type of character the subject of its infiue·nce, tnuch as the organizing principle in cell or egg moulds to its own type all that nourishes its develop- ment. Few responsibilities ~lre more serious than to invite one in the formative period of his cha1·acter to bring himself under the powerful moulding influence of society life. No nta.n can pass out as he entered; shall it be the tnaking or the marring of a man? If he carries out less of noble influence than he brought in, if he lowers the home ideals, if he loses courage in overcotning temptation, the organization stands condernned before God and man; the leprosy is in its walls for which the only n1edi- cine is annihilation. Certainly to the man, who is not a maelstron1 of selfish ness, to the man who, in the spirit of the text, counts giving a higher privilege than 1:eceiving, here is the opportunity of a lifetime. Who can measure the influence within a college society of a clean pure life of sincere aims interpreting life to younger men through a noble example? For intensity of influence, gentle1nen, you will never again find such a chance. At graduation you will get down from your pedestal and be jostled by the crowd; I pray you while you stand upon it, show the figure of a n1an. Never, till I see my Master's face, shaH I look upon a face with the same reve1·ence, and ingenious confidence, and devotion which tnight have commanded any service in tne as that with which I looked up to one of the seniors of tny own society. The man who throws away such influence, despises the opportunity God covets, robs him- self of the best work possible to hitn, loses out of life tnemories and gratitude which must still be pure and fragrant among the joys of heaven. As you looked up to the older men, the younger men looked up to you. Take your grip on thetn for good. Let the unconscious influence of your life-ever the strongest influence-be toward what is wholesotne and purifying. Yo·.1 are not living to yourself. It is not enough for the AI pine eli m her roped to his fellows to stand firm for himself, he 1nust so stand that if his comrades slip, he may bear the shock and hold them back from death. None of us liveth to himself and none dieth to hitnself. We cannot change that if we would. If we would make sure, eternally sure, that we would not change it if we could, let us say further with the apostle: 'For whether we live we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord ; whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.' \ The fraternity held a memorial service in

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 Odd Fellows' hall, Sunday afternoon, as a tribute to the memory of the founders and deceased 1nembers, The ex€rcises of the reunion closed on Mon- day night with a large bat1quet in 0 dd Fellows' hall. About one hundred and fifty alumni and undergraduates of the fraternity were pre&ent. COLLEGE CONCERT TliURSDA Y EVENING. Attractive Mt.tsical Program Arranged and Farce to be Given. The musical association wiU give its annual fall concert on Thursday evening, December 6, at the Van Curl,et· and if training counts for anything it will be of an unusually l1igh order. In addition to the regular selections by the glee and instrutnental clubs there will be a farce entitled \Cabman No. 93, or Found in a Four Wheeler.\ CAST OF CHARACTERS. Mr. Udolpho Halloway ....... John Garside Green A retired stock broker, a lover of the mys- terious and sensational. Joe Capsize \alias No. 93, \ .... Henry J. Langlois Driver of a Four- Wheeler. Clara, Halloway's Wife ......... Charles E. Heath Milly Meddlesome ................. DeForest Weed A servant in the Halloway household. Synopsis:-Mr. Halloway, learning that his wife engaged a cabman for a three h()urs' drive, grows suspicious a11d attempts a solution by assuming the garb of the cabman. After the un- expected return of Mrs. Halloway the plot thickens, but the cabbie ultimately clears up all difficulties. The farce has been under the supervision of H. L. Crain, 1902, who has had C{)nsiderable experience in dratnatic work, and will prove interesting to everybody. t/1900.-Erskine C. Rogers, who has been lately engaged in stun1p-speaking, has entered th(! law office of his father, James C. Rogers, '6o, at his home in Sandy Hill. On December 13, he expects to enter the Albany Law Scbo()l. QEPA~TEE AS A FINE ART. William H. McElroy's Chapel Lecture. The second of the series of lectures was de:Jivered in the chapel on Fr·iday afternoon by the Hon. Willian1 H. McElroy, Union, '6o. Tl1e lecture was a most interesting one, fot· the speaker kept his audience in the best of spirits throughout the entire lecture as he gave instance after instance of brilliant 1·epartee, drawing from the productions of past :masters of the art. Dr. McElroy was introduced by Dr. Wells who called hitn ''Mac, the King\ as his name indicated. He began by referring to tb.e at .. home feeling which he experienced in be,ing in the college chapel. He said in part : \As I stand here I t~ecall those words of Emerson-'! have reached H1e rniddle age of man yet I am not less glad at the n1eeting of scholars than I was when I satw my own class- mates graduate. Neither age nor books have succeeded in exterpating the thought then rooted in tne, that the scholar· is the favorite of heaven'. \A great Atnerican once said that the best part of his speeches never can.1e to hitn until he was riding home in the carr,i,age. And this is typical of human nature. ¥our adversary is not floored ; you fail to bring down the house ; wl1en the occasion cotnes for the display of your wits, they are not there. I arn reminded of an occasion when Artetnus Ward catne before an audience and very solen'lnly said, 'Ladies and Gentlemen, I have brilliant powers-hut I haven't got them with tne tl1is evening'. The words of our loved Ludlow oon1e to us : 'While we wait for the hapkin, The soup grows cold; While the button is tuatched, The pattern grows old.' \But this is pessirnistn. Things do come when they are wanted. Ou1~ wits are present sotnetimes wben they are needed. He then explained the manner in whicl1 he would deal with his subject, proposing to treat

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. it by example, giving .some of those spontaneous out-bursts of the intellect. ''Some years ago while sitting around a wood fire with a party of friends the subject of wit and repartee came up and the question was asked 'who is the best exponent of repartee?' It was unanimously decided that the Virginian, John Randolph, of Roanoke, deserved the .first place. Randolph was a great advocate of . cotton and its possibilities, and remarked on one occasion that he woul,d 'go a mile out of his way any time to kick a sheep'. While he was in Congress he was noted for his wit, his satire and bitter sarcastn. During his stay in Con- gress a mem her died and his successor, who was a great bully and bad come with a chip on his shoulder and who made a great boast that he was not afraid of Randolph, sought every occasion to make an attack upon him. One day after the tnan had made a fierce fling at Randolph, the eccentric Virginian slowly laid down his pen, arose and said, 'Mr. Speaker, when the former Congress1nan was alive I re- frained from praising him, but now when he is dead, I would like to pay a tribute to his memory'. There was no objection, and he pro- ceeded to eulogize him as a public benefactor, a great and good n1an, a good father, a loving husband, his decease as a loss to his friends and to the whole country. Finally he said, 'Mr. Speaker, we, who were fatniliar with him, shall miss hitn sadly w l1en vve look over to his seat and tind it vacant'. \This is what I call a perfect repartee. There is no bitter word-play, no wrangling, but one clear, clean stroke and the man's head in the basket. One that may be bracketed with this is one of a western paper. A young poe.t had sent the editors a little sonnet entitled, 'Why do I live?' After waiting a reasonable length of time and receiving no reply, the anxious youth wrote to the editot·s wanting to know if they had received it. They sent him the follow- ing reply : 'You sent us a little sonnet entitled, 'Why do I live?' some time ago by n1ail. We would say that you live because you did not bring it to the office in person'. ''Douglass Jerrold has been called the most famous master of repartee, but that is some- what open to criticism, as his wit was of a too heavy kind, was the brutality of hrightne&s. He, it was, that defined 'dogtnatism as simply puppyism in maturity'. Upon one occasion, at an English dinner party, someone exclaimed, 'Jerrold, I believe that you could pun on the signs of the Zodiac'. He replied, 'By Gemini, I can.' \Sidney Smith's cotnplin1ent to the lady in the garden was perfect in its \¥ay. They were walking in a garden and the lady remarked, 'I can never bring that rose to perfection'. He replied, 'Let me bring perfection to the rose'. This was perfect. It was sin1ply the turning around of what the lady bad said. \Another example of the cotnplimentary repartee. A lady was standing in the rear of a crowded concert hall when a gentleman near the front saw her and went to her and offered her his seat. She, in gTatitude, said to hin1, 'You are a jewel'. He answered, 'Pardon n1e, I hate to contradict a lady, I am a jeweler.' \We wonder whence come these witty replies'-this bright inexplicable power. Like the wind, we know not whence it corneth or whither it goeth. Like that creature that sprang full-anned frotn the head of Jove, so, repa1tee springs, full-m·med, from the brain of its author. Different definitions have been given lo it. One tnight say that it was externporane- ousness raised to the nth power. Depew, who is sotnething of a railroad man as well as a wit, would say that it was the Etnpire State Express of the intellect. Repartee is one of those things that demonstrate how wonderfully and fearfully we are n1ade. It is the art of putting things. ''In Congress wit is rare. What little there is, is too clumsy, too much of the 'you're anotber' in it. Thaddeus Stephens, or as he was familiarly called, 'Thad' Stephens, was responsible for some of tbe best gotten off there. One day when a Congressman had finished a a long speech, Stephens enquired of him how he voted. The Congressman replied, 'I an1 paired with Mr. Brown:t. Stephens returned, 'I should think from the way you spoke that you were paired with yourself.'

·THE OONCORDIENSIS. 9 '''When we corne down to the 1aw we are struck by the fact that it does not originate 1·epartee any bettet than other professions. The pulpit is the origin of as much as, the bar, bench or medical profession. '''A gentletna n sent a set of Robert Ingersoll's \W()rks to a friend vv ho was a c'le·rgyman in the West. Failing to hear from hhn be :telegraphed tlds n1·essage, 'I sent you IngeTsoll's works. Hope you received them safe and sound'. In a little tin.1e he received the answet·, 'I received the· books, safe, but not sound.' \'A priest was having an argurnent with a Methodist bishop and the bish<>p e~claimed, 'I can't believe your doctrine of purgatory'. The priest replied, 'Yon tnight go farfr1er and fare worse.' '''Randolph Tucker, who came to us frotn Virginia in our great year of rejoicing and who was a LL.D. ofUnion, was tile 1nost absolute 111aster of the art of story telling in Arnerica. He t1tte1·ed a saying of which Hohnes said that it was the high water mark of hurnor. Tucker was in Washington, in the Senate, and a senator was tnaking a lengthy speech during which the historian entered and in. a little time was nodding. Tucl{er's attention. vvas caUed to this and he turned and retnarkecl, 'Yes, history sleeps while fiction speaks.' '·'There was one of those good old ladies, near whose house a railroad was being built, who conceived the idea of reading to the work- rnen during their rest at noontilne. For the first day she chose 'Macbeth'... After she had finisl1ed reading the play she went up to a big Irishman and said, 'I hope you liked the play'. The fellow replied, 'This lady Macbeth you read about tnay have been a lady but she didp't prove so by her conduct.' Mr. McElroy here referred to Dr. Hohnes' '-'Visit to the Asylum for Decayed Punsters,\ and recommended it as a book <>verflowing with dry hutnor and Tepartee. ''En1erson says, 'Evety tnan is a quotation f1u1n his ancestors'. And so we rnight say that the Deluge was a liquid repartee for all the sin and wickedness that preceded it. The French Revolution might be called a ct·imson repartee. And for the reigns of the Georges, the tea steeped in Boston harbor, and Bunker Hill, were very .effectual repartees.\ Dr. McElroy closed his lecture with a touch- ing reference and tribute to Robert C. Alex- ander, calling him the most loyal son that old Union ever had, that he was in a fine sense, in the world but not of it. JOHNSTOWN Y. M. C. A., 10; SCRUB,. 0. Last Saturday the scrub was again defeated, this titne by the Johnstown Y. M. C. A. by a score of 10 to o. The Johnstown team was, much heavier and this in a great measure accounts for the defeat. The scrub only had the ball in its possession once and then advanced it easily. They would have cer- tainly scored but for an unfortunate mistake in signals. Mulvaney, Small and Sherrill played a hard, fast gatne for Union. The line- up follows: JOHNSTOWN. SCRUB. E. Hornning ......... left end . . . . . . . . . ... Meneses N. Hornning ........ left tackle ............ Watson H()rum .............. left guard ............ Conway Willian1s ............. centre ............ Dickenson New horn ........... right guard ......... Merriman Lingenfelter ....... right tackle ......... G. Parker Simons .............. right end .......... Pritchard Miller ................ quarter ............. Sherrill llerhrendt ........... right half .......... Mulvaney Cross... . ........... left half ....... Small (Capt.) Sullivan ............... full. ............... Griffith Referee, L. J. Weed. Umpire, Hursey. Time- keepers, Gould (Union) ; Hagadorn (Johnstown). Linesmen, D. Weed (Union); Rupert (Johnstown). t.--·-·'96.-R. B. Rowe of Clarksville, N. Y., is in Colorado with a party of scientists who are making a governtnent survey. U98.-R. S. Hoxie is connected with the St. Louis and San Francisco railroad. \P~~s:r-R. E. Bradford, who is now engaged in business in Amsterdam, was in town over Sunday.

10 TRE OONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. Publisked Every Wetk Duri'l'tg' tke Colleg-e Year, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COJ:LEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager JoHN McNAB, 1901, - - Literary Editor ARTHUR S. GoLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHUR S. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. R. R. CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HAWKES, 1902, A. H. HINMAN, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, S. B. HOWE, JR., 1903, A. S. PECK, 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, R. W. DONNAN, 1903. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS: $2.00 per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Chas . .Burrows, Printer, 414 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. ., places from which it may he reasonably expected : ,. the college will draw students. Preparatory men i !: go to these concerts, they meet the Union men at the usual dances which follow; and consequently, , ; they become interested in the college. The direct or indirect influence of these concert tours is not to be belittled. The undergraduates have a special duty with regard to the concert to be given at the Van Curler opera house Thursday evening. The management needs money to start the clubs on the short Christ- mas tour. The association needs practical en- couragement from the students. Attend the con- ·Cert if possible, but buy a ticket at any rate. THE ''mother of fraternities'' may very justly congratulate the New York Alpha of Kappa Alpha on the seventy-fifth anniversary of her foundation. The secret society idea, though in a way indebted to Phi Beta Kappa, really owes its original con- ception to the few Union students who banded themselves together in Noven1ber, 1825. The spread of that idea throughout the colleges of the land has proven a great source of strength to the American college. Kappa Alpha may congratu- late herself upon the unique character of her PARTICULAR attention is requested to the article foundation and upon the influence her example \ Pedagogy and Soap,\ which appears in another has given to the building of American student column. It points out a :flaw in our educational character. system which ought to be immediately remedied. THE musical clubs are hard at work preparing for their initial appearance of the sea&on in public concert. It is difficult to appreciate the amount of preparation that is necessary to put the clubs into the required form for public exhibition. Yet the results of that preparation ought to, and usually do, repay the metnbers for the time they devote to the work. The several extended trips of the associa- tion are always delightful affairs to look back upon; and these trips have much more value than this. The management, in the selection of the towns which the association is to visit, selects '98.-The following clipping from a New York paper refers to a '98 man who is now studying theology and selling gold bonds. \According to a decision made by Magistrate Duel in the Yorkville court, &tudents at edu- cational institutions cannot vote at the coming election. The case in which the magistrate rendered his decision was that of Orrin Giddings Cox, a student in the Union 1'heological semi- nary. Cox lives in Schenectady county and 1·egistered as living in the serninary. l-Ie was sumtnoned to court and the decision made. Cox pron1ised not to vote and was discharged.'' I' ~\ I ,

10 THE· CONC·ORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. Published Every Week Durz'teg the College Year, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEG$. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager JoHN McNAB, 1901, - - Literary Editor ARTHURS. GoLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHURS. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. R. R. CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HAWKES, 1902, A. H. HINMAN, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, S. B. HOWE, JR., 1903, A. 8. PECK, 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, R. W. DONNAN, 1903. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS: $2.00 per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 414 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. PARTICULAR attention is requested to the article ''Pedagogy and Soap,'' which appears in another column. It points out a flaw in our educational system which ought to be immediately remedied. THE musical clubs are hard at work preparing for their initial appearance of the season in public concert. It is difficult to appreciate the amount of preparation that is necessary to put the clubs into the required form for public exhibition. Yet the results of that preparation ought to, and usually do, repay the men1.bers for the time they devote to the work. The several extended trips of the associa- tion are always delightful affairs to look back upon; and these trips have much more value than this. The management, in the selection of the towns which the association is to visit, selects. places from which it may be reasonably ex-pected the college will draw students. Preparatory men gG 1:o these concerts, they meet the Union 1nen a1 the usual dances which follow; and consequenUy ~ they become interested in the college. The direct or indirect influence of these concert tours is not to be belittled. 'The undergraduates have a special daty with reg-ard to the concert to be given at tbe Van Curler opera house Thursday evening. The nanagement needs money to start the clubs on the short Ob.rist- , m<as tour. The association needs practic-al en.- couragement from the students. Attend -the con.- cert if possible, but buy a ticket at any rate. THE ''mother of fraternities'' may very justly congratulate the New York Alpha of Kappa Alpha 011 the seventy-fifth anniversary of her feu ndation. The secret society idea, though in a way indebted to Phi Beta Kappa, really owes its origb.1al con- ception to the few Union students who bat1ded themselyes together in Noven1.ber, 1825. The spread of that idea throughout the colleges of the land has proven a great source of strength to the American college. Kappa Alpha may congratu- late herself upon the unique character of beT foundation and upon the influence her ex:an1ple has given to the building of American student character. ~98.-The following clipping frQrn a. New York paper refers to a '98 man who is now studying theology and selling gold bonds. \According to a decision made by MF.tg-istrate Duel in the Yotkville court, students at edu- cational institutions cannot vote at the corning election. The case in which tbe mag-istrate rendered his decision was that of On· in Gidding~ Cox, a student in the Union 1'heological semi- nary. Cox lives in Schenectady county and registered as Iivi ng in the setninary. 11 e was sumrnoned to court and the decision made4 Co::8; protnised not to vote and was dischal'ged. ,, J.·

., I' ~\ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 PU:QITY IN UNION POLITICS. A Scheme to Be Proposed at the Next College Meeting. The following set of resolutions has been drawn up by a Comtnittee of the Undergraduate Council, and will be brought before the student body at the next college meeting. They are published now so that every student may !1ave an opportunity to becon1e thoroughly acquainted with them and to think them over carefully so as to be able to vote intelligently upon them. They ~re thus : \Inasmuch as the general system of college politics now in practice has proven . det~·i mental to the best interests of college organizations and has been the cause of personal and factional discord throughout the college, the Under- graduate Council respectfully submits to the student body the following resolutions: Resolved, first, that the canvassing for votes by candidates for office or by their friends be discou1·aged by the students individually and collective! y. Secondly, that the several fraternities and other organizations of the college pledge tben1- selves to abstain frotn all participation in deals and con1binations fo1· college and class offices. Thirdly, that candidates fot· assistant mana- gerships of the sever~! athletic organizations of the college shall rej)ort to the respective nlana- gers ~t least before the beginning of the season previous to their election, that suitable wo.rk to test their ability and earnestness be asstgned them, and that upon these candidates the Athletic Board shall make recommendations to the student body on the day of regular elections. The ratification of clause 2 of this resolution shall be made final after a comtnittee of the council l1as waited upon the fraternities and other organizations and receh~ed their pledges. And it is further l'ecommend~d that candidates for assistant managerships of the n1usical asso- ciation and Concm~diensis report and act in the same way. \ It is obvious that tl1e purpose of the above plan is the abolition of politics, which have-, up to this time, been so detrimental to securing good college officers. If the students i:ndivid- uaHy, and the fraternities, as units, do not pledge their votes, all will come to the e:lections free to vote for whotnever they consider the candidate most capable to fill the office, and will undoubtedly so vote. If the candidates have worked under the managers for a season, every student, and every n1ernber of the Athletic Board will have fonned a pretty fair idea of their fitness for the positions by the titne the elections come round. It should be noted that the Athletic Board may make more than one recomrnendation, so that if all the candidates are good men the Board can, and undoubtedly will recomtnend all of thern, and the ultimate choice will rest with the student body. And, furthermore, the student body n1ay reject all of the ncunes recommended by the Board, so that the students have the powers of choice entirely in their own bands, in case their opinion does not coincide with that of the Athletic Board. The n1ain objects of the proposed 3d clause are, first, to get the candidates early at work; secondly, to have their abilities judged by those vvho are competent to judge, ~tntllastly, to elect the best tnen for the officers. The entire plan seetns feasable, and cettainly ought to be fairly tested by the students at Union. CAMPUS NOTES. Dt·. Wright is spending a few weeks at Atlan- tic city. Michael Monahan of Albany will lecture on ''Doctor Maginn and Father Prout\ in the chapel Friday afternoon. Dr. Jones delivered an address Sunday after- noon before the Labor Forum, on the sttbject: ''Governmental Control of Public U tilitics. '' G. LeRoy Shelby, 1901, and GilbertS Wool- worth, r 902, were delegates to the Phi Delta Theta convention in Louisville, Ky., dul'ing the Thanksgiving vacation.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 PURITY IN UNJ:QN POLITICS. A Scheme to B'e Proposed at the Next Colieg:e Meeting. The following set of resolutions has been drawn up by .a Committee of the Undergraduate Council, and will be brought before the student body at the next college meeting. They are publiished now so th~t every student may !1ave an Ol>portunity to become thoroughly acq uatnted with them and to thin]{ them over carefully so as to oe able to vote intelligently upon them. They are thus: \Inasmuch as tl1 e general system ·Of college politics now in practice has proven detrimental to the best interests of college organizations and has been the cause of personal and factional discord throughout the college, tbe Under- graduate Council r~spectfully submits to the student body the following resolutions: Re~olved, first, .th~t the canvassing for votes by candidates for office or by theh friends be disco'ltraged by the students individually and collectively. Secondly, that the several fraternities and other o1·ganizations of the college pledge them- selves to abstain frot'll all participation in deals and con1binations for college and class offices. Th-irdly, that candidates for assistant mana- gersh :ips of the several athletic organizations of the college shall re1)ort to the respective n1ana- gers at least before the beginning of the sea son previvus to the it· election, that suitable work to test t11eir ability and ea1·nestness be assigned thern, and that upon these candidates the Athletic Board sha 11 make recommendations to the student body on ihe day of regulat· elections. Th4f ratification of clause 2 of this resolution shall be made final after a cornrnittee of the council has waited upon the fraternities and other o1·ganizations ~nd received their pledges. And it is further 1·ecommended that candidates for a&sistant managersl1i ps of the nlttsical asso- ciati<Yn and Concot·d1ensis report and act in the same way.\ It is obvious tl1at tbe purpose of the above plan is the abolition of politics, which have, up to this time, been so detrim,ental to securing good college officers. If the students individ- ually and the fraternities, as units, do not ' . pledge their votes, all wiU come to the ,elections free to vote for w hotnever they consider the candidate most capable to fill the office, and will undoubtedly so vote. If the candidates have worked under the managers for a season, every student, and every men1her of the Athletic Board will have forrned a pretty fair idea of their fitness for the positions by the titne the elections come round. It should be noted that the Athletic Board may make more than one recomtnendation, so that if all the candidates are good men the Board· can, and undoubtedly will recomtnend all of thetn, and the ultimate choice will rest with the student body. And, furthennore, the student body n1ay reject all of the names recommended by the Board, so that the students have the powers of choice entirely in their own hands, in case their opinion does not coincide with that of the Athletic Board. The n1ain objects of the proposed 3d clause are, first, to get the candidates early at work ; secondly, to have their abilities judged by those who are competent to judge, and lastly, to elect the best n1en for the officers. The entire plan seetns feasable, and certainly ought to be faidy tested by the students at Union. CAMPUS NOTES. Dr. Wright is spending a few weeks at Atlan- tic city. Michael Monahan of Albany will lecture on \Doctor Maginn and Father Prout\ in the chapel Friday afternoon. Dr. Jones delivered an address Sunday after- noon before the Labor Forum, on the subject: \Governmental Control of Public Utilities.\ G. LeRoy Shelby, 1901, and GilbertS Wool- worth, 1902, were delegates to the Phi Delta Theta convention in Louisville, Ky., during the Thanksgiving vacation.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PEDAGOGY AND SOAP. We quote the following from an interesting editorial paragraph in a recent number of t_he New York Evening Post, in regard to the resig- nation of Presi,dent Gilman of Johns H.opkins: \Early Hopkinsonians, if not 'evil entreated', studied almost 'in caves, and the holes of the earth', and in fact it is only of recent years th~t the universitv has been decently housed; but tn each of thes; shabby roon1s \\ 7 ere the necessary books, and a great specialist with his disciples and co-workers. He (President Gilman) proved, as the Natlon said at the .time, that a body of instructors was the real th1ng, and that you might have a university 'and a pretty good one, under a tent with a library of five hundred k . b '\ volumes ept tn soap- oxes . Just so, just so. A body of instructors is the first requisite, even if the instructors hold forth in tents. Indeed 've take rather n1ore kindly to this tent idea, than to that other strictly open ait· idea of a log with Mark Hopkins at one end of it and a student at the other. A library, certainly of not less than five hundred volumes, is the second t·eq uisite, even though it be kept in soap boxes. No doubt too, this instructor tent five hundred volutne soap-box combination would be rather preferable to the up-to-date millionaire appanage where the n1en1bers of the faculty take their tips from the sleek capitalist or the unan1iable old widow who happens to be \the head and front of the offending.\ To be sure, we expect rather more of a uni- versity nowadays than an instructor, a tent, a book and a soap-box, but after all the chief defect of the tent-log idea, is not lack of learn- ing, nor lack of funds, but lack of plut~bing. How's a fellow to get a bath? And who s fool enough now to believe that a tnan is educated if he doesn't bathe? Pagans knew better than that two thousand years ago, and now that we Atnericans have reached the idea that the un- washed man is alrnost as uneducated as the un- flogged man, by all n1eans let's keep our gain. We beg to suggest therefore, that in fitting out a university the soap-boxes be got full of soap, and that the libt·ary of five hundred volumes be not installed, perhaps not even bought until the educational virtues of the soap have been tried. But what is this to us clean fellows? What indeed? Look into the North College bath room (the South College bath roo1n is perhaps · a shade better) and see. Bathing is a strenuous performance here. Cleanliness here as else- . where is next to godliness, but one n1ust go through a penitential purgatory to attain to it. Will those who are in authority take an occa- sional peep into the North College bath-roon1 ? Perhaps if they should take an occasional bath · there, it would help to bring the tnatter home. A peep at the imn1ediate suburbs of the bath- room would do no hann either. Who is to blame? T'he students? In this particular matter they are to blatne just to this extent. Some dirt will con1e off a man when he bathes. If all of it stays in the bath-room, if none of it is ever taken away, then the bather has indeed n1ade an unwholesome bequest to posterity. It is custotnary in well regulated households, we believe, to clean out the bath tub and even the bath rootn occasionally ; not so in our little fatnily shower-baths. This is the proposition. There's a corollary to it. 1..,he stndents have been apt learners, not tnere parrots. The college has taught the principle, the students have applied it. The dorn1itories are old and perhaps a bit dirty. . Make them dirtier. Pile ashes in the halls. Throw stoves downstairs. Do anything in fact that will add to the generally down-at-the-heel look of things, or contribute to the discotnfort of oneseif and one's neighbors. The garbage boxes are not neatly covered as they should be, but open, and heaped high with all tnanner of unsightly stuff. Therefore throw dirty water, tin cans, papers, broken dishes, anything, every- thing out of your back window. Hete's a chance for the Undergraduate Coun- cil. Here's a home mission field for theY. M. C. A. And yet it isn't altogethet home mission~ ary work, is it? Sic ltur ad astra. '99.-George C. Rowell, a former editor of The Concordiensis, is in town for a few days.

I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 UNION·, 11 ;: RUTGERS, 6. The Garnet Finishes a Most Successful Season With a Victory at New Brunswick. Captain Carver's men celebrated the close of the footbaU season at New Brunswick by winning the ga.me vvi th Rutgers. It was the game of the season for Rutge1·s, and she had been working hard to bring about a satisfacto-ry outcome. Though the tnen from New Bt·uns- wick put up a hard fight, the1·e was little doubt of the result ft~orn the very sta1t. Union did the greater part of the forcing. Rutgers, except on the touchdown t:n.ade on a Union man's fumble, could not succeed in bringing the ball for any distance into the Garnet's territory. Burnett made this tou cbdown after M'allery had called \Down\ and then dropped the ball. The referee would not allow Union's protest. The Garnet also clai1ned another touchdGwn. Paige went over the line on a straight buck but it was decided that Anderson had tnade a forward pass. Captain Carver's protest went for naught. 'fhe Rutgers adherents exhibited 1nuch en- thusiastn throughout the contest. A brass band kept ti1ne for the students as they sang sotne verses written especially for the occasion. T'he day was a miserable one for good football. Mallery n1ade the first toucbdo\\i\'n for Union in the middle of the first half. Paige vvent over the line for what was apparently another, but the official took the ball back to the three yard line and gave it to Rutgers oa a forward pass. After being held twic::e, Burnett kicked out. Union quickly rushed the ball back and was· very near tbe line y.,r hen tirne was called. Rutgers tn8de her score in the beginning of the second half. Union carried the ball to the center of the field and Mallery went about tackle for fifteen 1nore yards. He had called \Down\ but Burnett picked up the ball and went down the field without opposition. The decision was against the Ga1·net. QJ.1arterback Mann k:icked an easy goal. Aftet· the kick-off, Union qu,ickly got possession of the ball, and Mallery was shortly sent about Patterson for twenty y~rds and the second touchdown. Rutgers was g()ing fast at the close of the half. Patterson, the right tack[e, played a hriUliant gatne for Rutgers. The Garnet played together well. Paige and Anderson each n1ade a poor catch of a punt. The line-up and sumn1:1r:y : UNION. RUTGERS. Thebo ............... left end .............. Herbert Finnegan ........... left tackle .............. Pol'and Shaw ............... left guard ........... Hitc~hner Griswold ............ centre .... Ransom, (Stewa..rt) Collier ............. right guard . . . . . . . . . Ada.ms Fenton ............ right tackle .......... Patte.Fson Olmsted ............. right end .............. Morris Anderson ............ quarter ........ Mann (Capt.) Carver (Capt.) ...... right half ............. Conger Mallery. . . . . . . . . ... left half ................ Hart Paige .................. full. ............... Burn.ett Score, Union, 11; Rutgers, 6. Touchdowns, Mallery (2), Burnett (1). Goals by Carver and Mann. THE GOVERNMENT SERVICE. Dr. Raymond spoke to the students last vveek on the pleasure that a personal talk with Ptlesi- dent Mci(inley afforded h11n. The president seetned filled rather with the consciousness of his responsibilities than with a spirit of gratifi- cation at his re-election. \Mr. McKinley,\ said Dr. Raytnond, \especi- ally realizes the task of getting cornpetent nu~n, self-sacrificing enough to undertake the deve'l<lp- ment of our recently acquired territory. He especially feels the inability of the civil serv·ice to help hitn in his selections. For there is no great salary attached to such positions, and the best of our educated 1nen are unwilling to enter a competitive exan1ination for office. Take for example your college professors, would they- be willing to get in a wild scrarnble after civil ap- pointlnents? The skilled draughtstnan \\\-'ill not take the risk of getting a governn1ent posiii<>n, when there are comparatively secure ones all about him in private life. Hence we see the steadily increasing need for college n1en vvho are willing to sacrifice thetnsel ves in the setvice of the government.\

14 TH!T ,OONCORDIENSIS. \ALPHA DELT\ DANCE. Alpha Delta Phi gave an ,enjoyable dance at its chapter house on the cam pus last Tuesday evening. A nurr1ber of out-of-town guests were present. Zita furnished the rnusic. Among those present were: Prof . .and Mrs. S. B. Howe, 1\fr. and l\1rs. Willis T. Hanson, Mrs. DeRemer, Mr. and Mrs. Hubbel Robin- son ;. the Misses Payn and vVagoner of Albany; Nickerson of Boston; Shenrra.n of Chic~go, and Fitcham of Ballston. Frotn Schenectady were : Tl1e Misses Walker, Osh·otn, Schoolcraft, Florence Veeder, Jeannette Veeder, Miller, Strain, Clark, Case, Button, VanDuesen, Pitkin, Fuller, Linn, AiliCxander, Hot·stman, Horstineyer. The alutnni were: Mess1·s. Walker, '95; Johnson, '94 ; Johnson, '97; Angle, '8() ; Van- Voast, '87; Stnith, Cornell; McGuire, Hobart; Hinman, '99; Huntley, '99; Bender, 1900; Leavenworth, r9or; Patten, Rensselaer; B1·y- ant, Cornell. . Frotn town and college were : VV. T. Han- son, Jr., Alexander, Prof. Hale, Prof. Jones, Prof. T'owne, Parker, MetTitllan, Barrett, Weed, Warner, Golden, Brown, Ostrander, Srnall, Yates, Bothwell, Stiles. THE ALUMNI COLUMN. Interesting News About Union Graduates. [E~ery alumnus and undergracluate of if1tion is in- vtted to. send ~o t~e Al~tmni Editoritemr of inter- est for Z1tSe1\\tzon zn tlus departrnent. ffezvs o/ a persq1zal11,ature '·about any al1~11znus, will be gladly recezved and prude d.] · '44-.-] udge \Villian1 Hi Ilia rd Wood, for fo1·ty yea1·s tJ·ustee of the Ira Coucl1 estate in Chic~tgo, died on Nove111ber 25 at his residence in that city. Judge Wood was born in 1822 in the village of Hinsdale, Cattarat~gus county, N. Y. He entered Hobart college ~t Geneva,. N. Y., where he re111ained through his freshrn2·n year. In 184-o he entered the sophomore class in Uni{)n college, Schenectady, N.Y.~ fr<>rn which institution he was graduated in 1844. While in college he was a me.mber of the Kappa AI ph a and Phi Beta Kappa fraternities. In 1854 he removed to Belvidere, Boone county, Ill., witl1 his family and fonned a law partnership with Allen C. Fulker. In 186o he came to Chicago to take charge of the Ira Couch estate. The estate of Ira Couch, who died in I 857, was left in the form of a trust and Mr. Wood was named as one of the trustees. . The active charge of the estate devolved upon Mr. Wood, who found the property heavily involved \\Vith indebtedness. He succeeded in clearing the estate before the great fire which S\vept all the buildings on the property a\;vay, including a1nong others the Tretnont House. During the war he was compelled to re1nain in Chicago on account of the estate, but paid for a substitute, who served throughout the vvar. He was a strong supporter of President Lincoln's administration. In 1869 he. purchased the resi- dence in Oak Park, where he lived until his death. He served as Supervisor of the Town of Cicero and as County Com missioner of Cook County. He was a Mason and was a metnber of the Union League club fron1 r88o until about a year ago. He was a vestryman in Bishop Cheney's church at the time he withdrew from the Episcopal church and followed his Bishop. '58.-Major Thomas Benton Brooks, engi- neer, geologist, soldier and scientific investiga- tor, died at his hon1e in New Windsor, Novem- ber 21. Major Brooks was the principal engi- neer in the siege of Fort vVagner, and the Union officer who planned the works from which shot and shell were fired into the city of Charleston and its defences. Major Brooks led a strenuous life, ever devot- ing hitnself to the best interests of the co1n- n1unity and of contetnporary science. He was born in Monroe, N. Y., June 19, 1836. As a boy he was a hard worker on his father's fann. He did light surveying work when but fifteen years of age. During his sixteenth year, he taught in the district school of Eagle Valley. During the next four years, he assisted in con- struction work on the New York and Oswego and Erie railroads. Before he was twenty, he (

( THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1!> became city surveyor of Paterson, N. ]. Later he was an observor for an U. S. Coast Survey party working on the Gulf of Mexico.. Feeling that he must learn more of the theory of his chosen profession, he entered the junior class in the engineering department at Union. He \\Vas instructor in field work during pliltt of his course. He graduated with '58 with the highest marks. Professor Gillespie urged young Brooks to continue at Union as instructor and wanted him to be his successor as head of the engineering departtnent. 1:-Iad Mr. Brooks been willing, he could undoubtedly have had the position. He spent the next winter at the University of Pennsylvania taking a lecture course, and there becatne interested in the study of rocks, to which later he devoted all his . energies. The disastrous battle of Bull Run pointed out to Brool{s his duty to enlist in his countl·y's service. He served with distinction at the siege of Fort Pulaski and Fort Wagner, in the expedition against Fort Royal ; and while on General Butler's statl~ \Vas wounded at Drury's Bluff, Va. Yet his tnilitary fame could rest alone upon the part he took in the siege of Charleston. Gen. Peter S. Michie of West Point said of him: \Unquestionably the central enginee1· in the siege of Fort Wagner, defending Charleston, is our gallent cotnrade, Col. Brooks. Ordinary language cannot do justice to his self-sacrificing devotion in the dangerous and difficult service to which he was assigned, nor to the full measure of his manhood in its suc- cessful peTformance. Endowed with an active mind and extraordinary energy, with vigorous physical powers, these were continually drawn upon until he had altnost reached the litnit of human endurance. He was a most indefatig- able worker, peculiarly fertile in expedients and in etnergencies, indifferent to personal danger when duty demanded it, and in every respect an inspiration to the whole command.\ Major Brooks resigned in the latter part of '64, at his fatnily's request. He soon became general manager of the Trenton Iron company, through the influence of Peter Cooper. Samuel J. Tilden induced him to go to the iron regions of Lake Superior in the interests of a large company. He :remained there three years, doing much to develope the iron industry in that section.· His severe early· career broke the Major's health. Accordingly, he married and spent a number of years in foreign travel. Though \-Veakened in strength, he returned to America and devoted much of his time to geological investigation. In 1887, he rnarried again, and retired frotn active life. Major Brooks was made a fellow of the London ·Geological Society. IT FAT.S ST\IDENTS Of \UNION\ TO TRA[)E WITH \IS. A special discount of 10.% on TOOTH BRUSHES, HAIR BRUSHES and PERFUMES to all \Union\ men. H2R5TMAtftl'5 PHJIRMIICT, W. N. Bailey, Mgr. Opp. Post Office. Sporting Goods ! Base Ball Supplies. Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photographers' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. I --AT·-- ~. A. RICKARD & CO.'S., 253 STATE STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

--AtYVERTISEltENTS. _ _._..... PlGKFO'RD BRO$., '' U:Qi-on Market.\ Dealers in All Fresh Me'fds and: FnnUry. Game ·in Season. Telephone 38-F. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT ST. !2! PRATT TEACHERS' AGENCY Recommends college and normal graduates., specialists, and other tea(}hers to colleges., public and private schools and families. Advises parents about sch()Gls. WM. 0. PRATT, Manager. 7() Fifth .Ave., New York. C.LASS PIPES 0 riginal Designs In the Guaranteed Our Book. on Pipes for the asking. ~ e)Pl:r\1: Nl!Dl'B~ TC'J~, Importer and Manu.facturer. 21'1 Walnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA. CHAS. BURROWS, - -· ·~ Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Rubber Stamps, Picture Framing, Printing, etc. 410-414 STATE S'T., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SWENY SPORT INC Cocos Co. 72 State St., ALBANY, N. Y •. COMPLETE LINE. l3EST QUALITY. 73 STATE STREET. AL:BANY, N. Y. GYMNASIUM SUITS. A.THLETIO GOODS. Buy your Camera Supplies of Finch ~ Hahn, 304 State Street. LARGEST STOCK. LOW:EST PBICES. '110N BHANO TRADE MAfi.F< ...-~------ ----- ----· ~ -- ......_-------- --- 1 ATHLETIC ROBES LOUNGING RO]ES ]A1'H ROBES FOR SALE IN SCHENECTADY BY Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- Wood Brothers. . ~, I :

,:, ' ;· 'j ) '~, ..::..:....---ADVEnTISEMENTS.----- 11 SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORJ{S. ~ LOCOMOTIVES - - - - - - - - § 5 - - - - - of Standard Designs for all classes of service, or from designs furnished by railroad companies. Annual Capacity, 450. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. AN EASY WAY TO EARN $25.00 We will pay this to anyone sending- us 20 neW' yearly sub- scrlp1ions. a~ com • panied by the full ~early pri~e 'for each subs~ription. •• •• •• Send two ~ent stamp 'for prospectus. sam· pie copies and par- ti4:ulars •• •• •• •• •• Outing Publishing Co. 239 Fifth Ave., N.Y. THE LARGEST .AND HANDSOMEST JEWELRY STORE IN THE STATE. SIM 1 PEIRSON & CO., BROADWAY & SECOND ST., TROY, N.Y. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. ' W. & L. E. GURLEY, @r·~~··~ 514 Fulton St., TQOY, N.Y. Largest Man11factnrers in America . . •• ... of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instrunzents and Materials. Union Gollege Book ~tore. ··~· . - ' . . All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note :Books, Fine Stationery, etc. A limited number of the SoNGs OF ''OLD UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE .•

Sales offices in all the large cities •••••• of the United States • ' ! ' ' .... ~~.~~ Electric ' Lighli11g Apparatus. Electric General Railway A .PP araius. Electric Electric Power Co. Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Powr?r. •••• SOHENECT ADY, N.Y. ------ ----- --- -- ------------ Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special atteation always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central .Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N.Y .. W Manufacturers of Hi~h-Grade Frater- R IC'HT, nity Emblems, .l!'raternity Jewelry, Fraternity Novelties, Fraternity Pro- K & C grams, Fraternity Stationery., Fl·ater- A Y 0. nity Announcements, Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on applica.tion. :140-1#:2 WooduoaTd .Ave., DETROIT, JJCIOH. Union Clothing Co. ALBRNY, N. Y. fJILL STOCK COMPLETE. Ageuts for the '' Stein-Bloch Clothes. '' Best in the World. f'IRNISHlli~S, HATS, ETC.. Ten per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION~ Complete Stock of Monarch and High ]Jriced Gents' Sboes. H~igh Grade Merchant Tailor .. ing. Only first•class men · ·employed. .MAX SC,HMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Deale1r. J, A~ CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. c·RAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Street, Scltenectady, N. Y. STUDENTS' DINING BOOM. First Class Meals. 21 Tickets) $3.00 .. :1..44: South ·oe:c.t:re St. THE WORDEN Rf5T~URJ!INT A. L. STICKNEY, Prop. 258 STATE STREET., 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N. Y. The Finest Table Board In The City. Open :from 6 A.M. to 12 P.M. Union's Tailor. 35 MA.IDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY HOOSE, Best Billia-rcl and Pool Pa-rlorll i'n the Oity. :ea..tes $2.50 Per :::Ca.;:sr a.nc!. Vp\W\a.rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Huyler's BON BONS • •• AND •• , CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drugs. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

--ADVERTISEMENTS.-- E!erlric IJ igl1 I i ng .. 4pparatJts. E!ecirir Railwav Apparatus. .Elerlric J:Jozver Apparatus. E~lerlrir Transmiss io11 of Pozvn·. ---- - __ --_-- __ - __ -- ··~~ WI ··tt-wr Sales office!=! in all the large cities of the United States. General Electric Co. SCHE~J~C'r AJ)Y, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. co ETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. WRICHT, KAY & Co. ~Ia mtfact urers of High-Grade Frater- nity Emblems, Fratemity Jewelry, Fra ter11ity Novelties, l•'raternity Pro- g-ram~. Fraternity Stationery, Frater- nity A nnouneements, l<~ra.ternity In- vitation H. Rend for Catalogue and Priee-list. Special desig·ns on appliention. 140-14:J JVoo<luoa'rd A1u~., D~J1'JlOIT, JJT ICTI. Union Clothing Co. A LB\NY N. I. FJILL 5TOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the \Vorld. F\IRN·ISHINQS, HI!ITS, ET<:.. 'reu per cent 1·eduction to Students.- VISIT 'l'HE UNION. --------------~------~---· Complete Stock of Monarch and High Vrieed G cnts' Shoes. High Grade Merchant Tailor- ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STA'TE STREET' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1\lackintosh.es made to order. Real Estate Dealer. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER • CRAl\!1 I~R & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Sti·eet, Schenectady, N.Y. -----~--·- -- ---- -- strUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 21 Tickets, $3.00 .. :1.44 South. Centre St. THE WQRI)EN REST ~URJIHT A. L. STICKNEY, Prop, 258 STAT~~ STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N. Y. Th~ Finest Table Board In The City. Open from 6 A.M. to 12 P.M. ~Y: ~Y: :TO::S:~:JSON -;Y: ._'* Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY HOOSE, Re.<~t Bill-iard a~~d Pool Parlor.'f in the City. ~a. tes $2.5 0 Fe:r ::Ca..-:y- a::c.c!. \'\p\W\a.rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. T~OY, N. Y. -------·---- -- ------·-======== BON BONS Huyler's ...AND ... CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Dru(s. AT LYON'S DRUG s~roRE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. I: ' ~ I, t·.·. I ' ' i. :! I ( l . I I i

~' · ...... ·- . ' . ·'. ,' ... ·~ ). '; ' -.• ... . ' ., . ). . ' . ~- ~ ;- '. '; ,. ·~: ·;.· .. . ': · .. . ·· ~-- .. \. . . . i, .• ,,. . , .. . SCliENEOT.ADY, N. Y~ 34: .. 38 MAIDEN LANEJ. ALBANY,. N. 'Y. ' • • z ••• \' . ,._ ' --~ -~ . . ~-.·: ... ~~·~if('tll<f··.· .. ~•.··.a. ,Ifr .. ···:\· • .... \'.· .. J·.::~.~.·.·t ..... :: .. ::; • . c·.. w· ..... ·. . A& =aelft 5I ·. · .· L'ARK . •··.· ITBECK · ·· ··. :·. EuaoPEA.N · Sk·ates, Hardware, . . ·lfii{~T~Ib A AMI~ A ~~~Tdlt~~~fNIT · Bicycles . . ··.:. · .. · .. ~·· •· .. ' ... · .· · ... · .. ·. ·~·p .. . ~rp;J.dway2l;n,d;Maidentane, 4.13STATE S'rREET. SCHENEC'TADY, N. Y . . ALHAr{Y, .~. Y .. . . · FINE c·oLORED 'SHIRTS • ~ ·- - - • -. ,. - --< . · W!LLIAM; H .. KEELER, PROP~ . FOR MEN ...... . ANNEX-.· 507 & 509 BROAD,VAV. ~~~£&~~~~@~@Q@~@~~~~~~~ O.OBERMANN.'S ICE OREA:M: AND ·:teES·· A;re Abs()lutely Pure. • ... • • . 2 38 State St.. . .SCH~NE:CT ADY, N. Y •. ..~ .. ~~~~~~g@>t\);@'Q,@>Q,@'Q;@'Q@Q;@~ ·' Beautifully made shirts, fine as custom made · goods, all the fiae~t materials and choic·est pat-- terns, skillfully cqt .for perfect fitting. vVe make · a specialty of otily the best goods iu our Men's ·. Fur11ishing Goods D·eparb.l}ent. Fu.l:1 lines of the latest requi . .sites for -meri '·s u.se, E~clusive styles · and lowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO. ··Boots and Shoes Repari/red~ . ~ .. -AG~NT )i'!Qit- .. ,_. . We respectfully request the patronag~ of the I . • ·· . students. First-class workmanship. Moder\' •. ··· .. ;·\1.·. rdner,, ~:.tone·~ go .. 1. i.Cttt~.dry.·,, ate pr.ices .. .. 422 Union St., B MARK 30:7 STAT:£ ST~, SCHENECTADY, l't Y. SchetJ.ectady, N. Y. ·. ·. • · · · ·. •. · . • ' ' . ~ FRIEDMAN BROS., ' ' Wholesale Dealers in · SOUTJ!E~N PRODUCE, BUTIER,GHEESE, . ··~ *·*·* ~~terer and le~taura;teur~ t-Al~ · UTlCA,. N. ·v. ·EGGS, FRESH FtSH, OYSTE:Rs, CLAMS, ETC.. . LEE w. cAsE. ESTABtrsaEn ts.ro. F. w. McCLELLAN· ~Ev-I 0-A.SE & 00 .. ., ., Po~atoe,s a Sp·e·cialty.. 1.02 So. Centre ·st. Copper; Brass and Sheet Iron Works,· Ste.am SCBENE<;TADY; N .. Y .• : ·:·.· _-:·:~·. ·.... Heating, Plumbing, Metal Worlf.. WARRlCN S-rREE1.\ Telephone ~5 • SCHENECTADY., N. . : -~' ' . . I . ·.' ~ .

I: ' ~ I, t·.·. I ' ' i. :! .I ·\ I ( l . I I i --ADVERTISEMENTS.------------ Chas. Hoftzmann' S. E. Miller. Ca~ries tke Largest ·attd Best Lin~ ()I . . . . J 11:];' t],';, . . . . d F: . ! I b·· . ' ·G· . \ .. ·d· .•. MEN'S FURNISHING GOO D8, \J 0 nJDg an ! nrms mg 00 s SOLE AGENT FOR IN 'fHlS CITY. 8tudents are enti:t:led to a ten per cent. discount. 259 State St. B.OIIENEOTADY, N. Y. ~--~-------EUROPEAN------------ lill (0) iffll. .b. .~ A IR\f51f Ull (\] IR\#l]JNI if 9 Broadway and Maiden Lane~ ALBANY, N.Y. QENT!LEMEN ON·L Y. 250 ROOMS. LA.DIES' RESTAURANT ATTACHED. WILLIAJv.I H. KEELER, PROP. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROAD\WAY. ~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~ ~ D·.OBE:RMANN.'S ~ ~ ICE CREAM AND ICES ~ ~ Are Absolutely Pure. -~ ~ 238 Sta.teSt. SCHENECTADY,N.Y • .. t£ ~~~~~~~~~~~@@>@@~ PE.TER TIERNEY, ----AGENT FOR---- fa;rdner, ltcne ~ gc. laundry, 3:07 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FRIEDMAN BROS., Wholesale Dealers in SOUTHE~N PRODUCE, BUTIER,CHEESE, EGGS, F:RESH FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. Potatoes a Specialty. 102 So. Centre St. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Telephone ~5. THE REGAL SHOE. . 34-36 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. CLARK WITBECK Skates, Hard ware, Bicycles. 413 STATE STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FINE COLORED SHIRTS FOR MEN ...... Beautifully made shirts, fine as custom made goods, all the finest materials and choicest pat~ terns, skillfully cut for perfect fitting. \Ve make a sp·ecialty of only the best goods in our Men's Furnishing- Goods Department. Full lines of the latest teq uisites for men '-s use. Exclusive styles and lowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO. . We respectfully request the patronage of the students. First-class workmanship. Moder- ate prices. 422 Union St., B lVI ARK Schenectady, N. Y. • • ~ *** letterer a:nd le~taurateur. ~!'----- UTICA, N. Y. LEE W. CASE. EST A BLISH ED 1840. F. W. McCLELLAN. Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steam ;.. .. · Heating, Plumbing, Metal \Vorl~. WARREN STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.

Don't c:o:mpare Ou.r clothing with. -the kind sold in ordillary stores. RoGERS, PEET & Oo.'H overcoats and suits, rank with the, finest n1ade- to -mea. sure garments;. We have the ~rxclusive sale of this clothing. •• ! ' '4.,. . CLO'rHIEBS-BATTEBS--FURN:JSHEBS. 23-29 S. Pearl St. (D·eGraaf Blclg.) ALBANY, N.Y. DON'T' CHARGE FAN·CY PR.ICES. MAKE 0 NLY TO ORDER. ONLY MAKE UP FIKEI STUFF. .. . I :.LEO OPPENHEIM, ':fHE TAI~OK. 79 and. eo so.J?ea,rl et. . . . . . . . . . ExtensiYe Ladies D~ept. . . . . . . .. WOOD BROS., \Mens' Outfitters.\ Latest styles of Fa.Jl and Winter Hats and \Caps. Dress Shirts. Immense line of U nd..erwear and Neckwear. Perrins Bros. Kid Gl~\V:e.s. ... '265 ... STATE ST., SCHENE·CT.AD Y. . . . . ' ,. I ' I·· '. 0 '· • ... . ~ ' • ,jf i'. \ \': ' ;::' .. '-', .. .•·· '· •,

til:,:: ! t]{>i . ,. · .... j ·~ • ~:.·_,,:. •. > . r '1~:< ,' ' ,> \ . . ' . . , , .. :. J •• _.;n ... H .. -· )~\~;;: ·.' '. •·· : \:~ .• , · ~ . I ' - ; i ':_,\ .. ·· . . \\.1• • ,, !~:.:r ·: . ·~ - ·f:t ·.·. :'.::'V: .- .c. ·i· :-:t2J_.' . \l! •' \ .: . ~- .! • ..... ~, . • t ·~ .. ... ' iJ{'! \ f~~~---. J•· ·,. ' . ' ~·/ _..}!\·:.-\ -') ! l \ . ... '/ ' ~- ., ' . '-. . ~ ' v • . , . . - ' J • •,of The '• •· 'I ! C d .. . · · on cor · 1ens1s. VoL. XX.IV. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, F SCHENECTADY/ N. Y . DECEMBER 13, 1900~~ No. 11.

............-..----ADVERTISEMENTS. ____ .............._ Union University. AlllR:EW Y. Y. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. D., President. lJNION COL.LEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. .Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree ()f A. B.-The usual Classical Coarse, including :J?rench and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. (Jourse Leading to the Deg1·ee a:f B. S.~The modern languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sopllomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course I.eading to the Degree a:f Pb.. B.-This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in rrwdern languages ami science. . 4. General Course Leading to the Degree af B. :E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an engineering edu- cation, including the fundamental pTinciples of all special branehes of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German.~ and a fuU course in English. 5. SanitaJ.'Y CJourse Leading to the Degree of B. :E.- This d.}ffers from course 4: in substituting special work in Sani- • tary Engineering for some of the General Engineering stu. dies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree .of B. :E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- trieity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering- studies. This course is offered in co-operation witbt1te Edison Gen.eral Electric Conpany. ~. Graduate Ceu1·se in Engineering Leading te the Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to gradna:tes of courses 4, 5 or 6. Tbere are also special courses in .Analytial Chemistr-y, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for S]lecial information, address BENJA.MIN H. RIPTON, Dean of tbe College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTilfENT OF MEDICINE. A.Jbany Medica.l College.-Term C<)mmences last Tuesday in September. Four years strictly graded course. Instructions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture c0urse, $100; perpetual ticket, $300; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10 ; laboratory course, each $10. For circular address .,,.,., WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany La.w School.-This department of the university is located at Albany. near the State Capitol. It occupies a build- ing wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree or LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. EX:penses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuitiou fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NEW7'0N FIERO, Dean. .ALBANY, N. Y. I ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ,, ·' Ex:ereises: hetd in .Albany Medfcal Oollege. Annua.llecture e:r:tn aornmences: Monday, Oct. I. For catalogue and informa- tion ac:fdress :DEBAUN VAN .&KEN, Fh. G .• Secretary,_ 222 Hamilton Street. w·h,en You B.u;y .r. : Furniture :I ' ·Look elsewhere-look bet\e. Cor,nparison is our deli-ght, and the ·more you know about furniture the surer we .are of making a sale. Farn i.ture for every use practicai, dura- ble and surprisingly low priced. ·.· A. BROWN & :so,N, 302 .State ·st. The Most Rehable ··>+<• ,. . P .ATTON & HhLL~ 245 STATE ST.' SOHE.NECTADY, N. Y~ FOR HATS, CAPS, L T' Cl t ~~~~s:::t:.~lWi~ I ! • I . . R'' e, .. UMBRELLAS, MACK- INTOSHES, &c., Go TO Dunlap and Stetson Hats 227 'Sf' ATE s• and Dent's Gloves. • ·· ' · · L WILSON :OA VIS J Merchant Tailor. 237 State St. SCHEr.ECT .lDY, ~rt. Y.

/ ' ·'•: -, ~~ ',... .. ':,, ~, Jl ' • . . ~' \ .. ··, .. · . . '' ......_...,.,...._ ... ·AD VERTISEYENTS. -/· . ...._.__.,..___, 0 · u··· • ·t . QlOQ QIYQfSt y. JIDRII Y. ¥. RAYIO:ND,. U. D. , LL .. D., President UNION COLLEGE ·. •· .. . ' '. , SCHENBCTAJJY, N. Y. 1. C()tt rse LeJ:~;d:ing . t«> the Degree 9f A. B •. ,.,.;.Th~ usual Classical Course, in~luding French and. ·German. After Sopho- lllQre yea.r- the. work is la,rg-e}.y elective, 2. 0()urse Leading to the .Degree of ]J. s.---The modern la.nguages are slibstituteq for the ::l,nctent, and. the am.ount ·Of ~atll:ema.t Ics and . English studies is i:ti,c:re~sed. After the Sophomor-e year a large list .of electives is offered;. . 3, (')curse *'-eadtng to the Deg·l'ee .of Ph. B.__,.Thl$ di:ffers fi'()tn thEl A. B. course chietiy ln tbe omission of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional wor){ in modern la:nguag.es and. scienee. . ·· 4;, General Course Leading to the Degr~e of B. E.- 'lhis co\Qrs~ is intended to g,ive .the })asis of an engi~eeriug ed,u- cation, in.;Jtu<Jing the f!lndamental ,principles ,of ~ll $pecial br~nches ()f the pr0fesslQn, a knowledge of bot}) Frencb and German; ~nd a ftill course in English . . 5. S~nitary Co.u:;rse t.~adin,g to :the Degree of B. E.-,- This differs from course 4. in s.u bstituting special work in Sani- . tary Engiueeriug for some uf the. General Engineering stu<.'Jies. 6, EleCJt;rical c·ou:rse Lea~ing to the D~gree of B. E.~ 'This differs from course 4in substituting special work in Elec- tricity an~ its applications, ip place of some Qr the Gener.al Engi!lffering studi.:es. This course. is offered in co-operation with the Edison General E1ectric Con pany. \t.. G:ra.(l uate Cour$e Jn Engineering . Le~ding t(,) the Degr&e ()If c. E.~ A course of one year offered to graduates- of ~ourses· 4:, 5 or 6, · · There are a:IRo special courses in Analytial Chemistry, Meta1lurg\S and Nat ural H:ist0ry. For catalog;Ues or for strecial infQrmation,. address '· BEN.JAMIN H, RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, lS\. Y. DEPARTil1ENT OF MEDl(INE. Alba~y-Medical College.-Term commences last Tues·day in September. Four years. f.ltri'ctly graded course. Instructions by lectures, recitations, labovatory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.--Matricul~M<>n fee, $5 ; annual lecture course., '100; perpetualti.cket, $300; graduationfee, $25 .; djssecting fee, $10; la.bor-atory course, each $10. For circular address ·- WfLLIS G. TUCKER, .M. D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. . - - . . ·- ~ . . .Alhan:y ;Law School.-This department of the university is lo~ated a 't A:lbany. pear the S.tate Capitol. It occupies a build- i:ng wbQll y devoted to Its use. The c<>urse leading to the degree of LL. :B . ., is two years, each year is divlded into two sem(;lsters. ExpenJ~es.-Matriculation fee, $10; t:qitiotl: fee, $100. For catalogues Qr other inJormation, address ALBA!iY LAW SCHOO~, NEW\l'ON FIERO, Dean, A:t:JJ4~Y, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ExereiseB held in .l\lb~-,: }Jedfeal College. Annu&l ~ecture erm c:rommences Motuiay, '0et •. l. For ca.ta~Qglle. apd informs.,. tion a.d!b'e.ss . . . . . . . . .. ~ . . . DE. 'BA.UN Y .AN AlOIN, PQ. G., Secretary, . · 222 Hamilton Street. . ~ When-YoU Purnitu ·Look elsewhere-.·loo Co:wparison is ou:r · a.n:d the ·tnore you kno furniture the surer w making a sale. F1 for every use practica ble a11d surprising priced. m. ·A····. ·B····· ·.·R .... Q.··W··;· ...... N· .... \ 0 ..... . ' . .:.: ' _· ~ ' ' ' . . ' ' ()( . ~'~~~\,~~~~~~ :c:~. · .... ~ ........ . . . . \ - . - -· .. . -- .l!i·.··~~! ·.F· ... C9 ... ·.· e9· rr· ... w .. ·.·· ..... 'I_' ' • ',. ': • : '' • - • ·' ': I ' • ' ' ' ' . ' - ' . . . . .. . . . ... ·•>+<•···· PATTON & 24·5 STATE E SCHENECTADY FOR HATS, CAPS:, .L· FURS', 'TRUNKS, SUIT · . ~~~~l:tf:: ~~~~~ ·. ··· I INTOSHES, &c., Go To--- Dunlap and Stetson Hats 2 and Dent's GJoves. Merchant T . . st:

.............,.-ADV-ERTISEMENTS.-- 3 Intercollegiate Caps and Gowns, COTRE'LL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. Suits and Overcoats C. G. CRAFT & CO., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOJJ:l TAILORS and READY AfADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Both am Carts. IOU CAN· DO IT Ef.ISIL I. SANDvVICHES, all kinds. Cust()m or Ready-Made. lOUR C.REDIT IS QOOD. Marcus Saul, 417 STATE ST. BA.RHY'J:'E & DEVENPECK, .•. VVb.olesale and Retail... co~al and Wood. Lime, Cement, Pla~:;te-:r, Ifair, Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union. Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Sti·aw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizer~. Schenectady, N, Y. JOHN KRJDA, L~~~;_.~;:.s· -----!So. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tai1or-:r:n~de Suit5 and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing- repaired, <.'leaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable price8. \'iJork called for and delivered. PIES, ahvays fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE CoR. JAY. · . I I ·. I JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO=, WH,2LESALE CROCERS, 218-222 State St. Tobacco, G1•aiu aud Pro't'i sion.~. .. A.LBANY, N. Y. GO TO \TII't OVEN'' RESTAURANT, POSITIVELY Fl RE-PROOF. BEST 25-c I>INNER IN THE CITY. OPEN lJJ1 Y .!lJVD NIGHT. LadiM;;' and Gent:s' Restaurant, 4·13 STA'l'l·~ RTHF.E'l', ~CHE;o;ECT.ADY, N.Y. SCtiERf1ERtiORN & CO., G-:E\\NERAL IrlSURANCE ... 4..GENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SOHENECTADY~ N. Y. =======================--- __ ---- OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, Atnerican and Eul'opean Plan. ~lost .Attractive Hotel in Ne\v~ York State. Restaurant and Grill Roo1n Special r,eatures H. J. ROCli:\VELL & SOl~~, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLA~. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DA'L'. OFFICE HOURS : 9 A. JYI. TO 4 P. JY.I. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the smne management.

~-.A.DVERTISEMENTS . ........,.._....__....... ' ,.... .. , --· '--- \'· ·- . '- .. -- Intercollegiate Caps and Gollns, COTRELL & LEOtiARD, ALBANY, .N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. WHI MO·T DRESS WELL ? Suits and Overcoats C. G. CRAFT & 00., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and lf'oreign Goods. Botham Carts. IOU CAli [)Q IT E.A5lL.T .. SANDWICHES, all kinds. Custom or Ready-Made. TOU~ c·:REI)IT IS QOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, •.. Wholesale and Retail ... Coal and W\ood. PIES, al\vays fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE COR. JAY. · . I I I JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO~, WH,!i!LESAL·E CROCERS, Lime, Cement., Plaster, Hair, Flour, 306, 308 and 310 Union. 21 . 8 _ 222 State St. Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. Tobacco, Gt•aitl a-nd PTOVi$iO'ltS. JOHN KRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' T.A..J:LO~. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made Suite; and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'' RESTAURAIT, BEST ~5c DINN.EB IN THE CITY. OPEN DAY AND .NIGHT. Ladie.'l' and Gents' Rest auT ant. 4:43 8TATF. STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. SCtiERMERHORH & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, The 1\'en Eyck~ ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY Fl RE-PROOF. American and Eu1·opean Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special l,eatures H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS : 9 A. M. TO 4 p. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

---ADVERTJSEMENTS.-- Roteli Ve:od.om,e ·• To The Bog$ of 1901·&·3 and 41 Refitted and Refurnished. ,Vtt.der New Manageme1z.t. Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. H. A. PEOI{, PROPR., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CASH 0~ CREDIT. S. R. JAMES, 202-204 STATE ST. SO:S:E~EOT . ..A.D\'Y\\. ::t:-:r. \'Y'. CROCKERY, GLASSWARE, . .. CALL ON .. , JI:tv.r GAFFEES •• FOR YOUR •• ~aaf;cti,anery, TaQa~~a anQ ~igars. 511 Unioa Street. ~- PI. W~ST'F'1-\.~~' liEWSDEJILER ~ STATIONJ:.,R. Magazine and Periodical Department. IMPOnTED AND DOMESTIC CIGAQS. FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS, TOBACCO OF ALL KINDS. ROUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-BRAC, ETc. 403 UNION STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. • • • <9HE • • • Edisoa -s- lloteli, 88HENEGI'ADY, N.Y. The Largest atzd Best Appoz'nted Hotel in the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. TATES' BOAT tiOUSE.. The La,rgest and .Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in con- nection with hQuse. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTAN RESTAQR.ANT AND LQNt.H ROOM. 338 STATE STREET, SCHENECTA.DY, N. Y. Me-al Tickets Sold. Best Inducements to Students. Open from 5:30 A. M. to 1:00 A. M. WOHLBERG & .ZEISLER, :Props. C. H. Beneclict, Mauaget•. Telephone 335. DECEMBER 13th- \ Quo Vadis.\ DECEMAER 1 ith- \ Jack and the Bean Stalk.\

The Concordi0Il·Sis VoL. XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER 13, 1900. No. 11. '' DOCTOQ MAGINN AND FATHEQ PROUT.\ Michael Monahan Speaks Entertainingly of the Two Irish Poets. Mr. Michael Monahan of Albany delivered the third lecture of the course on Friday after- noon to a large and appreciative audience. On account of his lecture delivered in the chapel two years ago on ''Thotnas Moore\ he needed no introduction as he was already known as a very interesting and impressive speaker. Pres- ident Rayrnond, in presenting Mr. Monahan, re- ferred to his increasing literary t·enown. Mr. Monahan began by citing a little incident of Richard Croker in regard to his attempt to get within the charmed circle of New York's \4oo'' by using as a eat's paw a prominent member of that elect body who had great political aspirations. He compared Croker's case to his own and said that he might be con- sidered to be using the Doctor (Rayn1ond) in a like manner by which he tnight gain admittance to that sect known as ''college men\. He spoke of the many blessings of the college man, who had so many hard places made smooth for him, whereas the outsider with literary tastes had to grind ceasel@ssly for each bit of knowledge. He said, \I sometimes find myself in the de- lightful delusion of trying to remember in what year I graduated from Union College I am not a college tn_an nor have I ever been connected with any college except the 'University of Hanl- knocks' .\ He, here, referred to his subject, \Doctor Maginn and Father Prout\ as two Irishrnen of wit and well-known men of English letters. Continuing, Mr. Monahan said, \The wot·ks of these men are not for sale at every news- stand, nor is their popularity widespread. But we must not conclude that they are not of the elect because of this. \Most of us know names better than we <lo books. Only a few of us, if we would confess it, have read Shakespeare. \These two men now rest from their labors upon earth. And their works are not sought for by syndicates, for in our modern days even literature is syndicated.\ He spoke of the similarity of the two meN., one being 'almost the exact analogue of t be other. Both were good Irishmen and both Tories,. Nature almost seemed to have stru.ck them both from the sa n1e die. Bllt let us begin with Maginn.' Mr. Monahan then recommended the opti- mistic view of life saying, \Let us be laughet~s. Let us laugh at Chdsttnas. Let us continue our laugh frotn Christmas to St. Valentine, from Valentine to the first of April, from the first of April to mid-sumn1er. Let all our lives be a laugh.\ He cotnmented upon the small- ness of Ireland and yet the important part he-r sons had played in the world's progress and the strange fact that so 111any of her noted offsprings had first seen the light of day in Cork. Fa tbeT Maginn and Father Prout were both Cork~­ sonians. F4lther Maginn was the son of a schoolmaster, himself somewhat of a scholat-, who early saw the possibilities in l1is son and sent hin1 to Trinity, from which he graduated at the age of eighteen. Maginn may have beeil said to have known the English language, whicl1 is an accotnplishtnent in itself. Maginn was noted fot· his versatility; he tnay be said to have done too many things well. Ei(! was a great wit and a voluminous writer. II1 speaking of women he says that 'the next good thing to a really good woman is a good natured one'. 'ln literature as in love we generally begin in bad taste'. 'I never knew a good fellow in all my life who was not the dupe of a woman'. \Men drank hard when Maginn carne UJ? to London and poor Maginn drank tnore than was good for his delicate constitution.

l ! I l 6 THE CONOORD1ENS19. \Maginn had a bit of romance and a sad bit it was. Some think it was a help down the road of dissipation, but I have n1y doubts in the n1atter. The lady in the case was a Miss Leti:ia ~: Landon, who was the writer of rnany not 1ndrflerent verses in the early part of the century. Maginn called her the tenth Muse. \Maginn died in 1842 after he had retired fro1n the babel he loved so well and sad was his ending. The master passion exerted itself even in death and his last hours \Vere spent in dic- tating a classical page.\ Mr. Monahan next took up Father Prout. He, like Maginn, was born in Cork, but was more fortunate in having his 1 iterary work more appreciated. He was educated for the priest- hood, that life which every humbl~ Irish peas- ant hopes to have lived by sotne son in the fatnily. He was noted for his keen insight of hutnan nature and for his satire which never lacked respect~ He was taught by the Jesuits and although in after years he left the priest- hood, yet he always maintained for thetn the greatest respect and reverence. It was im- possible for him to remain in the htunble r 0 le of a priest but he n1ust take his place as a man of letters for which nature intended hitn. He possessed keen sympathy with the classical writers. He tnade many translations from the French of Boulangier and Hugo and also frotn the Italian, but his translations from Horace were the finest of his works. His translation of the ninth Ode,. first book, is a gem. The closing years of his life vvere spent among the kindly French people whom he loved so much. He died in Paris on the 1oth of May, 1866. In closing, Mr. Monahan recited Prout's beautiful poetn, ''The Bells of Shandon\ in which is expressed his deep and lasting love for Ireland and his native town, Cork. LAW SCHOOL !lECEPTION. . The Dean and Mrs. Fiero will hold a recep- tion at the Ten Eyck, next Monday evening, in honor of President and Mrs. Raymond and the trustees and faculty of the law department. THE FOOTBALL SEASON. Captain ·Carver's Men Leave a Bright Page in the Athletic History of Union. Eight victories, one tie gatne, two defeats- such is a brief summary of the football record which the e1even that represented Union on the gridiron this fall, leaves behind it. One hundred and thirty-two points against her opponents' twenty-two-· -this is a record to be proud of. Beside this, another league pennant comes to Union as a token of her prowess in athletics. Taking everything into consideration, the season just passed may be looked back upon with much satisfaction by Union men. For the fit·st titne in a number of years, the pro- spects at the beginning of the season were excellent. With men who had made their foot- ball ''0\ t() spare, it was seen that there was for once no absolute necessity for drawing upon raw tnaterial for the 'varsity. When it was learned tl1at William J. Smith, the efficient captain of tl1e fall of '98, had been engaged as coach, there was little doubt but that a dashing eleven would be developed at Union. Enthusi- asn1 was awakened at the very beginning. The students subscribed liberally to the football fund. Meu who wanted to learn the o-atne h catne out ou the field, and worked hard for the success of the 'varsity. Son1e failed in their good intentions, but throughout the fall there was more earnestness shown atnong scrub players than for rnany seasons. Though there was not enough of this support, it was still encouraging. But one thing was notably lack- ing, and that was undergraduate support during football practice. There was too tnuch over- confidence, too much trusting to one's neighbor. With but two exceptions-in the games with Vermont and the Washington Continentals- vigorous play was a strong characteristic of the eleven. Little fault was ever to be found with the individual players. They did their best, and the students appreciated it. Ftunbling, however, sometimes did occur. An excusable one lost the Williams game or, at least. lost a \'

THE OONCORDIENSlS. 7 chance for a tie. At Ithaca, one man's fumbling confessedly lost good chances for a much lower score. In the DartmGuith, Rochester, Cornell, Williams, Colgate and Rutgers games, the eleven as a whole revealed splendid sta1nina and gave good exhibitions of both offensive and defensive football. There is a n1uch greater chance to praise than find fault with the individual players. Captain John P. Carver, at right half back, always played a very strong gan1e. He proved a hard man to stop on cross bucks. Physical strength and \head-work\ tnade hin1 especially valuable on the defensive. Oltnsted, at right end, was the \find\ of the season. He had played tackle on the University of Tennessee, but the coach wisely put hitn farthet· out on the line. He was fast in getting down on punts and a sure tackler. Tilne after time, he eluded the end against hi tn and broke up plays before they were fairly started. Thebo and Finnegan were his equals in this respect. Griswold, in the middle of the line, never lost his head. What- ever the circumstances, it was rarely that the ball was not passed with. precision. 1\he two guards, Shaw and Collier, aided him in making the middle of the line fairly impregnable. Shaw played in a crippled condition throughout the major part of the season. Ex-captain Fenton, at right tackle, was always reliable. Finnegan, the other tackle, scarcely 1net his equal on any opposing eleven. Thebo did some very hard tackling. Three men were tried at quarter. Though the best drop kicker and punter on the eleven, 1-1arquette, was weak on the defence and fumbled punts too frequently. Weed handled the teatn well until he sprained his ankle. Anderson played his position well during the last month. Mallery and Paige were strong men on the defence. Both played a daring gatne and tackled fieTcely. Mallery was very slippery when he was running with the ball. Paige's bucking was quick and fierce; his inter- ference, always reliable. Gulnac, at half and full; Slack, at half; Lee and Bolles, at guard ; were the best men among the substitutes. Cronkhite, who played both quarter and full on the scrub, is the most prolnising among the second ,eleven tea111. He ought to rnake an exceHent quarter in the future. The sco1ie and statistics tables follow: THE 'VARSITY SCORES. September 30-· On ion ...... 12; Co1ga te . . . . . . . . . . 0 October 6-Union ...... 0; Dartmouth ....... 0 October 13-Uniou ...... 11; Rochester. . . . . . . . 0 October 20-Union ...... 0; Cornell .......... 11 October 27-Union ...... 5; R. P. I. ......... 0 October 31-0nion ...... 0; Williams ........ 5 November 3-Union ...... 5; Vermont ......... 0 N b 6 U . . . . . J Washington ~. ovem er . -, n 10n ...... 10' 1 Continentals f 0 November 10-Union ...... 10; Colgate .......... 0 November 17-Union ...... 68; St. Stephens ..... 0 November 24--Union ...... 11; Rutgers .......... 6 Total points tnade against opponents, 132. Total points made by opponents, 22. TEE SCRUB SCORES. November17-Saratago A. A ........ 11; Scrub,. 5 November24-JohnstownY.M.C. A .. 10; Scrub .. 0 INTER-CLASS GAME SCORES. October 22--J uuiors. . . . . . . 0; Freshmen. . . . . . . 0 October 26-Sophomores ... 6; Juniors ......... 0 October 29--Sophomores ... 10; Seniors . . . . . . . . . 6 Noven1ber 2-Sophomores ... 0; Freshmen ...... 0 STATISTICS OF THE 'VARSITY. Position. Name. Age. Height. \\Veight. R E ~ H. Oimsted, '04 ... ! ••••• 19 .. 6ft ....... 1801 bs · 1 J. T. Welles, '03 ........ 21 .. Sft. 7in ... 1561bs R. T .. A. C. Fenton, Law '02 ... 29 .. 5ft.11in .. 170lbs R. G 5 M. C. C?llier, '03 ........ 21 .. 6ft ....... 1761bs t Bolles, 03 ............... 21 .. 6ft ....... 1681 bs C ..... Griswold, '03 ........... 22 .. Sft. 9in ... 187lbs { D. J. Shaw, '02 ........ 25 .. 5ft.10in .. 1751bs L. G A. A. Lee, '03 ; : ........ 19 .. 6ft.l~n ... 1841 bs R. T. Gordon, 03 ....... 22 .. Sft. 9tn ... 1851 bs L. T .. Finnegan, '02 ........... 23 .. 6ft.1in ... 1851bs L.E .. F. M. Thebo, '02 ........ 25 .. 5ft.9in ... 1751bs { L. J. 1Veed, '01 ......... 21 .. Sft. 9in ... 1521 bs Q. . . A. L. Anderson, '02 ..... 22 .. 5ft. 6in ... 1451 bs J.P. Marquette, Law '02.20 .. 5ft.11in .. 1501bs L. H { E. T .. Maller~, '02 ...... 21 .. 5ft.11~n .. 1501 bs E. B. Slack, 01 ......... 21 .. Sft.10tn .. 1871bs R. H .. J. P. Carver, '01. ....... 25 .. Sft.lOin .. 165lbs F ... {D. W. Paige, ~aw '02 .. 20 .. 6ft.liJ.?- ... 175lbs J. Q. G ulnae, 03 ........ 22 .. 5ft.11tu .. 1601 bs AI ph a Delta Phi gave a smoker to the foot- ball team and the second eleven Wednesday evening at its house. A very enjoyable time was had by all present.

- - - ~- - -- ~- ~ -- - ~ - - - - ~ .. 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE FALL CONCERT. Glee Club Selections E,specially Well Rendered. The initial per£onnance of the musical asso- ciation was given at the VanCurler opera house last Thursday evening before the largest audi ... ence that ever assetnbled at a fall concert. The size of the house was a disti net point of ct·edit to Manager Brown, who put forth strenuous efforts to make the affair a success. The concert as given was excellent but short. The glee club especially tnet with the favor of the audience. Careful drilling was plainly evident. The instrutnental clubs' perfonnance was excellent. Though encores were given to all the selections, the audience plainly desired tnore. The first part of the progratn consisted of the following numbers: 1. a. Tar Song ............................ Hatton b. Corn Bread ........................ Perkins Glee Club. 2. Fan-Ta11 ............................. Anthony Mandolin Club. 3. Autumnal Festivities ................. Plauque Mandolin and Banjo Clubs. 4. a. UnionBesidetheMohawkVale .. Franklin '83 b. Union Marching Song ..... Homer Green '76 Glee Club. 5. Dance, ''Way Down South '' .............. Eno Banjo Club. At the conclusion of this section of the pro- gran1 a farce, entitled \'Cabman 93, or Found in a Four- Wheeler\ was given. H. L. Crane, 1902, the director of the farce, was called away , tenors, G. L. Shelley, R. R. Crim, H. J. Lang- lois, C. N. Brown; second tenors, H. A. Ear- rett,. D. \v¥. Weed, S. B. Howe, Jr., W. G. Craig; first basses, A. H. Hinman, J. G. Green, W. C. Treder, C. E. Heath; second basses, R. M. Eames, E. B. Slack, G. C. Macfarlane, E. V. Mullenneaux. MandoHn club-H. J. McClure, leader; F. L. Stiles, S .. B. Howe, Jr., A. H. Hinn1an,. J. M. Russurn, H .. J. McClure, S. D. Pah'Xler, H. N. Bowler; . .tnandola, J. H. Cook; guita1·s, C. D. Stewart,. L. J. Weed; flute, F. W. Neary. Banjo club-H. J. McClure, leader; ban- jeaurines, C. D. Stewart, C. G. Brand; banjos, Gardiner Kline, C. J. Bennett; piccolo banjo, H. J. McClure; guitars, A. H. Hintnan, L. J. Weed. RECENT PATQIOTIC POETQY. The Editor of the \Atlantic Monthly'' to L~cture Friday Afternoon. Dr .. Bliss Perry, editor of the ''.Atlantic Monthly\ will lecture in the chapel Friday afternoon on. \Recent Patriotic Poetry\. Dr. Perry is one of the forernost literary c1·itics of the countly. He possesses a pleasing and fascinatingdelivery, whieh places him in sytn- pathy with l1is audience throughout his lecture. As he is in close touch with literary men of the nation, he is well fitted to give Union men the literary treat of the year. The lecture will be held at 3 :30 p .. rn. In the future, all chapel lectures will be held at that tin1e. a few days before the concert and, in conse- quence, the participants were scarcely as well ~ drilled as might have been expected. Still, the rendering was excellent and the audience fully showed its appreciation of it. CAMPUS NOTE. The college quartette, cotnposed of Shelley, 1901 ; Barrett, 1901 ; Heath, 1904 and Macfar- lane, 1903 ; were present and rendered several selections at a large reception given in Amster- datn, Friday evening, by Dr. and Mrs. Edv\tard P. White. Dr. White is a graduate of the college in '79 and a metnber of the board of trustees. A large number of alumni were present at tl1e reception. The officers and 1nen1 bers of the association are as follo·ws: President, H. A. Barrett; vice- president, C. J. Bennett; secretary, H. L. Crain ; manage1·, H. J. Brown ; assistant man- ager, W. S. Yates. Glee club-G-. Leroy Shelley, leader; first ' i

THE Q.QNOORDIENSIS. 9 ALASKA AND THE KLONDIKE. Elmer F. Botsford, of th.e Joseph Ladue Company, the Lecturer. A rare treat will be given the students and theit· friends Friday evening when Elmer F. Botsford, secretary and treasurer of the Joseph Ladue Gold Mining company, will give an illu- strated lecture on ''Alaska and the Klondike\. The lecturer will bring with him a large nutn- ber of slides, illustrating personal experiences and actual scenes of life in that newly developed land. ~\'he Joseph Ladue company, of which M1·. Botsford is an official, was the pioneer mining concern in Alaska. Mr. Botsford has been much in that land of gold, and has many interesting stories to tell. He is a Darttnouth man, having graduated there in '86, and has been for a nutnber of years an extre1nely suc- cessful attorney in New York city. He comes to Union through the influence of his friend, Williatn G. Brown, '95· The lecture has already been given in a num- ber of other places. Dr. Sheldon Jackson, '55, the head of the Board of Education of Alaska, praises it highly. The Plattsburgh ''Press\ gives it the following reconunendation : \Although Mr. Botsford l1as lectured before on this subject, his talk last night was equally interesting to those who heard hirn for the first time, and those who had the pleasure of listen- ing to hitn last year. Mr. Botsford l1as a num- ber of new views and the trip from which he lately returned, furnished hitn with much new tnaterial for his discourse. The views shown were all gems, and Mr. Botsford's retnarks had that spice of personal expet·ience which is so essential to the success of a lecturet-. \A cotnplete set of views of Alaskan scenery was shown on the trip along the coast and to Dawson, and the old and new methods of trans- portation were contrasted.. The views of the railway which winds its way up the 1nountain from Skagua y, are worthy of special mention, as were also scenes of mines and miners. A nutnber of views of the native Indians, with their curious lodges and totem poles were shown. The growth ·of Dawson was made evi- dent by views of that city three years ago and last seas.on. The warehouse and store of the Ladue <:otnpany, both substantifll structures, were also displayed on the canvas. \At the conclusion of the lecture, Mr. Eats- ford sho-wed a dozen beautiful scenes in Ireland and displayed a quantity of Klondike gold' dust and nug-gets. A unanimous vote of thanks was given the lectu rt:r.\ :U:NiON MEN IN NEW YORK. Annual Banquet at the Hotel Savoy This Evening. The annual reunion and banquet of the Union College Alumni Association of New York, will take place this evening, at the Hotel Savoy, in that city. The banquet is expected to be, as usual, the equal of any similar afrair to be given in the metropolis. A distinguished toast list bas been arranged and a tempting menu prepared. A pleasing feature of the banquet is found in the annouce ment that \The alutnni of the 1nedical college and law school of Albany, as fellovv- membel-s of Union University, are invited to partici p~te.\ The t·eunion and business 111eerning vvill be held in the parlors of the Savoy at six o'clock. Dinne1· will be served promptly at seven. The college quartette will be present and V\rill sing through'()ut the eventng. The officers of the association are: President, Daniel M. Stit11son, '64; first vice- presideuJ, Frederick W. Seward, '49; second vice- presiden.t, Charles D. Nott, '54; secretary, Edgar S. Barney, '84; treasurer, Bayard Whitehorne, '82. The Executive con11nittee is composed of: Andrew H. Smith, '58; Williatn K. Gilchrist, '83; Douglas Campbell, '94; Joseph Alan O'Neill, '97; Courtland V. Anable, '81; Edwin Einstein, '61; G-eorge J. Schermerhorn, '66; Charles D. Meneely, '81; William G. Brown, '95; Albon Man, '49; George F. Seward, '60; Warner Miller, '60; Wt?lter R. Benjamin, '74 and George E. Marks, '79. V Ex-'CI.-Peter Winnie Finger is pastor of the Methodist Episcopal church at West Fulton, N.Y.

I I j .l -- ,_~- ---~-\ ------ - ...,....._~~- -- ~ -~ 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. Published Every Wuk Duri-ng the Collegt Year, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager JoHN McNAB, 1901, - Literary Editor ARTHUR S. GoLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHUR S. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITOHS. R. R, CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HAWKES, 1902, A. H. HINMAN, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, A. S. PECK, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, S. B. HowE, JR., 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, R. C. DONNAN, 1903. TERMS: CoNCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, $2.00 per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Suhenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 414: State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. A PLEASING feature of the banquet of the North- eastern New York Alumni Association in Jan- uary, will be the attendance, for the first time, of the alumni of the professional departments at Albany. More than that, these departments will be represented upon the toast list. The executive committee is certainly to be congratulated upon making this reunion a truly university affair. If Union is to be a real university, the ties of kindred sympathy must be held more :firtnly together. This new plan ought to serve materially in bring- ing about the much desired result. The Concordi- ensis ventures to suggest an addition to the plan, which very possibly has already been thought of by the committee. Make the n arne of the organi- zation the ''Union University Alumni Association of Northeastern New York\ and the professional school alumni will be made to feel that they are· really attending their own banquet. THE RECENT appointment of a committee to colt- fer with prospective professional department com- mittees in regard to a:n undergraduate university banquet at Albany, was distinctly a step in tne right direction. The experience of the past ,t\'o years has shown two thit:1,gs very clearly-that tne college must be the advancer in any movement £er the promotion of university feeling, and that a11~y university banquet that is held this year, must ®e held at Albany. The men in Albany do not seem to feel that they are desired in Schenectady; th.e:y wish the collegians to come to the Capital city t() show the strength of the good feeling. The hancl- full of men that came to the university banq ·uet last year, plainly indicated this frame of m,ind .. And another matter,-the Albany tnen do not feet that the students in Schenectady are sincere in their desire to foster the common interests of ih .. e departments. It is frequently stated by law sc:h.ool men that two excellent candidates for last year's baseball nine were ''turned down without thanks\' by last year's management. More than this, th.ere is similar talk with reference to other matters among the medical students. If such dissatisfac- tion exists at Albany, it ought to be speed,ity remedied. It would seem that no better way ~ut of the difficulty could be devised than an entbt:Js i- astic banquet, to which each department should send a large representation. Such a banquet would do much toward creating a strong, healib.y university feeling. Such a feeling n1ay and v:ill exist, if the means at hand are carried out. THE NEW ENGINEE~ING INSTQUC10~. Frank B. Williams, Ph. D., enters. upon lb.-is work this weel{, as instructor ()f engineering 1n the place of Prof. Walker. Mt·. Williams -w~ts graduatedfrotn the University ofMissouri, in '9·0. He returned thete as a teaching fellow and re- ceived the degree of M. A. After receiv.i£Ig this degree, Dr. Williams spent three years ()U the Tennessee river cornrnission as assistant engineer. In the fall of '98 he becatne con t1ec- ted with Clark University, at Yv\\ orcester, M·ass., by which he was given tl1e degree of ?11. D. last June. He has been an assistant in Clark University up to the present time. 'V

.I ' t 'V THE CONCORDIENSlS. 11 EDUCA TlONA.L ,CONVENTION. Union l{epresented at Philadelphia by Dr. Hale. pan into d'le fire. In order that Free•'Trade should renable every country to buy in tllec'heap- est and set:l in the dearest market, in cot•form ity with Adam Smith's max:im, and so :sttpp•ly all its needs on the most advantageous te-r·rii'S pos- sible to human agency, the following .comd1tions must obtain throughout the world : 1, Every country must :excel all other ·c::ootttries in cheap11ess of producing sotne things a.nd be ex- ! celled by them in cheapness of producl·mg bther things. Union was represented by Dr. E. E. Hale, Jr., i at the fourteenth annual convention of the Asso- ciation of Colleges and Preparatory Schools o£ ·:: the Middle States and Mary land, held with the University of Pennsy h~ania Friday and Satut·· day, Novetnber 30 and December 1. Prof. Hale took a leading part in the general dis- cussion on oratory and debating. An interesting program was prepared. Two discussions filled up the first day's program- \Should the higher education of women differ from that of men?\ and \How should Ameri- can universities and colleges best prepare men for public service ? \ Professor N. M. Butler, of Columbia Uni- versity, read the report frotn the cotntnittee on unifonn entrance examination. He stated that the first examinations under the uniform system would be held during the week beginning June SCIENCE AGAINST FREE-TR.ADE. Tariff Barriers Indispensable to Profit- able Industries in the Higher Latitudes. R. A. Benedict, '83, has an unique article in the ''American Economist,\ for November 30. Con1ment upon it will appear in the next issue. The argument follows in full. Tari:ff la~s should be ame11ded by putting the products of trusts upon the free list to prevent monopoly under the plea of Protection. We condetnn the Dingley Tariff law as a trust breed- ing measure, skillfully devised to give the few favors which they do not deserve, and to place upon the many burdens which they should not bear- Democratic Platform, 1900. This sounds very plausible; and yet a logical analysis of the cause between Free- Trade and Protection tends to prove that the course thus advocated would be jumping from the frying 2. Each rcoun1ry's advantages must eq-ual and exactly batance its disadvantages, so that its ~ur­ plus pt1oducts may always supply means bo pur- chase abroad the things it is not allowed io-:IH~oduce under Free- Trade. 3. Of the goods in the production of wbi~a F~ree­ T·rade demonstrates its superiority, each rC-QUntry must a.lways produce and be ready to excllange a surplus sufficient to supply the world otds.hle .. There may be other conditions nece!ls.:at-y to the successful use of Adam Smith's n1:axin, but the absence of either one of the a b<lwe three reduces the Free- Trade claitn to a In anifest absurdity. The next step is a comp:n:i~·()n of the two following illustrations in wh ic:l~ black indicates not shadow but cheapness, am d white not light but dearness of production. ADAM SMITH'S EARTH. Climate a negliglible quantity in estirna.H-ng cost. Cheap spots equal in nutnber and size to d~a.r .spots. Tarriff harriers hinder the natural adjll stment of these spots to each other. The earth would need to be of the alJov..e f<>rm, because: 1. There must be no such difference im climate from }JOint to point as to prejudice som.e l~titudes in the cost of production as compared ,vw:ith other latitudes, unless it can be proven that c:li sad van-:-

----- ---- -- ------ - - ~-~ -- 12 THE CON.CQR.DIENSIS. tages in climate are uniformly offset by advantages in other elements of productive cost. But this is .absurd. Therefore .there can be no uniform change in temperature between the latitudes, caused by the changing angle of incidence of the sun's rays upon the earth. Heuce a meridian line drawn from either pole to the equator, must be straight like a meridian line drawn from one end of a cyl- inder to its middle. 2. The earth must be divided into an immense number of complimentary parts, exactly to conform to conditions 1, 2 and 3, illustrated by the check- ered surface of the earth above represented. The white spots represent ''dear\ spots and the black spots ''cheap\ ones. Each white spot may be re- garded as standing for that part of any country which, productive under Protection, is entirely unable to produce without it, and, therefore, under Free-Trade, a dead weight to the productive por- tion. The absurdity of the above in1mediately ap- pears on examining a tnodel of the earth as it is : THE REAL COMMERCIAL EARTH. Climate a fixed and unalterable quantity in cost at a given point. Tl1e poles the dearest spots. Other spots cheaper the nearer the equator and dearer the nearer the poles they are. Tariff barriers indispensable to higl1er latitudes. It will be seen that the real earth is a globe, not a cylinder ; and that it has no checker spots. The angle of incidence of the sun's rays varies uniformly frotn the poles to the equator and vlce versa, because of the curvature of the earth's surface. Tbis variation causes a varia- tion in temperature to the prejudice of a higher latitude as compared with a lower. Subsistence is more abundant and therefore life more easy to sustain as you pass from the poles to the equator. But cost of subsistenc~ is cost of production, and as cost of subsistence thus varies directly with latitude, cost of production also varies directly with latitude.. Therefore universal Free- Trade would finally fix wages all over the world at the level of wages at or near the equa- tor. Such wages would not include the higher cost of living in colder clhnates. Therefore Free- Trade as a remedy for trusts would mean eventually either the reversion of the laborer in temperate climates to a savage condition, his migt~ation toward the equator, or his extermina- tion. R. A. BENEDICT, Union, '83. SCHEDULE OF EXAMINATIONS. December 17-21, 1900. SENIORS. 9A. M. 2P.M. f European History. Spanish. i Geology. Rhetoric. :Monday..... Mathematic'l Theory Heating and Ventilation. of Eleetricity. L Railroad Construction. T ·. sday J Economics. English Literature. 11e • • • • • 1 1\'Iotors. I Politics American History. Morphologs. New York State History. 1Yednesday • Stresses. Latin. l Greek Testament. Architecture. Hebrew. i Philosophy. Thursday . . • German. Stereotomy. Friday •.• ~. . Greek. i French. Drainage. JUNIORS. 9A.M. J English Literature. Monday ••.•. 1 Geology. T d I Physics. ues ay. • · • ·1 German, W. d d J Latin. We nes ay • ·~ Applied Mechanics. Thursday .••. {European History. F . d J French. I.\l ay • • • • • ·1 Anglo-Saxon. SOJ>HOMORES. 9A.M. i German, W. Monday • • . • German, M. French, P. Tuesday .•.•• J Ph 0 Y,Si_?logy of Exer- 1 lS.v.. J History. Wednesday • 1 Thursday •. J Hhetor!c. ·· 1 Surveymg. FRESHMEN. 9 A. M. d { Algebra. Mon ay • · · · · Greek. Tuesda.y .•... J Elementary 1 German, M. Wednesday • J Elemen~ary 1 French, M. Thursday ..•. i Physiology. Psychology. 2P.M. Greek. Spanish. Biology. :1\fechanics, 0. Chemistry. American History. New York State History. A1·gumentation. Roads and Pavements. Calculus. Latin. 2P.M. Greek. Ohemistt·y. Analytic Geometry, 0. Analytic Geometry, V. English Literature. 2P.M. Intermediate German, M. Latin. Biology. French, P. Intermediate French, M. Geometry. Any changes that may become necessary will be noted on the bulletin board. I I I \.

I \. THE CONOORDIEN:SIS. 13 BANQUET AT ALBANY. Northeastern New York Alumni to Dine at the TenEyck, January 11. The executive committee of the Union CoUege Alumni Association of Northeastern New York has decided to hold the annual banquet and reN union of the association at the Hotel Ten Eyck in Albany on Friday evening, January I I. The business meeting is to be called at 6:30, and the banquet at 7 :oo p. m. The comtnittee is desirous of enlarging the scope of the dinner this year, and of making it strictly a university aff..'lir. Graduates of the professional schools vvill appear upon the toast list, and alumni and undergraduates of those departments are earnestly and most cordially invited to make the affair a success. Friday evening has been selected for the particular purpose of the convenience of the university- faculty and undergraduates. Arrangements have been tnade by the cotnmittee which indi- cate an excellent toast list. The officers of the association are : President, Edward P. vVhite, '79, of An1sterda1n; vice- president, Dr. Andrew MacFarlane, '84~ of the tnedical department ; secretary and treasurer,. James N. VanderVeer, '99· Information an~ tickets may be had by addressing Jatnes N. VanderVeer, Cor. State and Eagle Sts., Albany. Schenectady ahunni may obtain information of Prof. A. H. Pepper. TOUR OF THE MUSICAL CLUBS. The musical clubs will leave for the annual western trip, (which was omitted last year,) Thursday, Dec. r 3, at 10 a. m., if the metn bers of the clubs can get excused frotn the examina- tions that morning. They will give a concert in the evening at Lowville, which will be under the auspices of Prof. Perry, of Lowville Academy. He has informed the tnanager, Brown, 'or, that he will have all his pupils, about one hundred in num- ber, at the concert and thus instu·e the clubs of a t·ousing reception. On the 14th a concert will be given at Water- town. C. D. Griffith, '98, has taken entire charge of the arrangen1ents for the ~concert. Mr. Griffith, true to his alma mater, is putting fortl1 great efforts to n1ake the concert a success. On the 15th the clubs \\rill an·ive at Canajo- harie, where they will appear under the aus- pices of the Free Public Library. After the concert the n1~embers of the clubs will be given a dance. During the trip the glee club will render Old Union songs, while the other clubs will intro- duce new .selections. The entire trip promises to be a success on account of the excellent work of the 'managers and directors of the several clubs. At a n1eeting last week of the musical associ- ation, a n1otion was proposed that every mem- ber of tl1e clubs should deposit five dollars with the manager at the beginning of the season and when absent fron1 rehearsals without excuse a certain amount is to be deducted from the deposit. At the end of the season each tnember o[ the clubs will receive back his deposit after the deduction of the fines for absences from re- hearsals without excuse, if any. PHlLOMATHEA.NS CONTQIBUTE TO THE LIBRARY. The Philomatbean Society held an interesting and ·irnportant meeting last week. A spirited debate was had on: \Resolved that the Hay- Pauncefote treaty regarding the Nicaraugua Canal should be ratified by congress.\ The debate was decided in favor of the a:ffirn1ative. The following officers were elected for the next term: Barrett, ~OI, president; Cheesborough, 'oi, vice-president; 1-Iays, 'o2, treasurer; Hunt, '03, secretary; Loewenstein, 'o4, curator. Executive committee.-----Adams, 'oz, chainnan ; Staeber, '03 and Lent, 'o4. A n1otion to place on the reference shelves of the college library subject to all rules and regulations of the library, the books on debating, purchased by the society, was adopted. The books are Henry Matson's '~ Refe.rences for Literary Workers,\ Hinds and Noble'~ \Pros and Cons\ and Brool{s and King- walls ~'Briefs fol' Debate.\

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE ALUMNI COLUMN. Interesting News Abott t Union Graduates. i[E~ery alzt11Z?t'lts and .u1tdergraduate of U'ttion is i?z- vzted to. send ~o t~e Al1fmni Editor items of inter- est for znsertzon .zn tkis department. News .of a personaln,ature, about a-ny alutnnus, will be glad!')' received and printed.] '38.-The tnayor of Albany recently appointed a comn1ittee of representative citizens of that city to decide upon appropriate ceremonies com,m.en1orative of the late Rev. Dr. Clarence A. Walworth, and to select a metnorial in his honor. The comn1on council bas also appointed village, and in r87·7 and 1878, tnayor ofthe citv , of Rome. He was a 1nember of the board ~f education for a number of years. He was also 1 a trustee of the Central New York Institution for Deaf Mutes, and a director of the Farmer's National Bank. The Masonic order cotn.manded :. considerable of Mr. Stevens' attention. In r 887, he became eminent commander of Rotne CQm- mandety of the Knights Templar. Miss Frances ,, M?ore of Roxbury, became his wife in 1859. I-Its first wife died and, in 1876, he was married to Miss Caroline Catlin of Ripon, Wisconsin. Four sons and a daughter survive him. a committee to confer Y\rith the other. Neither the date for the ceremonies, nor the n1emorial has yet been decided upon, but it is expected ' that action will shortly be taken. His decease proved a heavy blow to his many friends in Rotne. The \Sentinel\ speaks editorially of hi111 as follows: \Once more death has retnoved one of Rome's most honored citizens. The life of Edward L. Stevens was closely identified with the history of the community where he resided so tnany years. He took keen interest in public affairs, national, state and local. Though he held office he never was an office seeker. The posi- '55.-Edward L. Stevens, a prominent metn- ber of the Rome bar and fonnerly mayor of : that city, died at his home Novernber 9· Mr. Stevens had been in poor health for over a year and had been confined to his room for several months previous to his death. Mr. Stevens was born at Harpersfield, Dela- ware county, N. Y., (}n March ro 1834 with ' ' ' a sterling ancestry. The Stevens fan1ily, coming from England, were early settlers in Connecti\ cut. Samuel Stevens, the grandfather, fought in tl1e Revolution. On his 1nother's side, the Beardsley family, coming frotn Stratford-on-the- Avon, founded the village of Stratford, Conn. Metnbers of the family fought in the Revolution and in the war of r8r 2. Young Stevens entered the junior class at Union, and graduated witl1 the honor of Greek salutatorian. While in college, he became a member of Psi Upsilon. He taught Latin and Greek for a ti n1e and then entered a law office in New York city. In 1857 he went to Rome where, the very day of his arrival, he tried a case in the justice court. From that day, he steadily advanced in standing among the legal fraternity of central New York. He always took much interest in politics, early affiliating himself with the Democratic party. In I 869 he was elected president of the tions which he occupied were not those with remuneration to the incumbent, but where per- sonal attention vvas given without thought of other reward than that which comes with the consciousness of duty well perfonned. Par- ticularly in the early history of Rome, both as a village and as a city, was Mr. Stevens active in shaping municipal aflairs. His counsel was earnestly sought because of its intrinsic value. \In his profession Mr. Stevens stood in the front rank, and he gained the confidence and the esteem of the legal fraternity as he did of the people generally. He possessed a rare fac·.llty of com panionability and his presence always was cheering. He was cordial with his fellow m,en and his ties of friendship were strong. A man of wide information, a clear thinker and one with the native characteristic of sound judg- ment, his opinion carried weight and was highly respected. ~e was one of the foretnost citizens of this cornmunity, and will be 1nissed in the many wall\s of life which he graced.\ '73 -Charles L. Pond of Troy died on November zo, at his rooms in Saratoga Spa. Mr. Pond was the son of A. B. F. Pond, Union, r

• TEtE CONCORDIENSIS. '48, one of the best known lawyers in northern New York. He was the nephew of Rev. W asl1ington I. Pond, Union,' 52. He graduated at Union in 1873 and a:lthough he had neve1· ptactised law, was an accredited member ofthe bar. He was a very versatile man, a genial cotnpanion and had m·any friends. During the recent campaign he was an associate editor of the \Daily Independent\ published in the interests .of the Fusion candidates of Saratoga county. '83.-\The Clergy in American Life and Letters;', by the Rev. Daniel Dulaney Addison, '83, is the third volume in the series of \National Studies in American Letters\ which the Mac- millan co1npany publishes. This volutne deals, in the earlier chapters, vvith the general ~charac­ ter and position of the older clergy in relation to public and literary life at the beginning of . the 11ational era, their fonnative influence as teachers and supporters of the colleges and schools in the east and vvest, and their contribu- tions to literature, both religious and secular; and, in the later chapters, with leading expo- nents of opinion and progress in special studies of Dwight, Channing, Bushnell, Parker, Beecher and Brooks. The whole forms a succinct view of the work <>f the clergy of all denotninations in political, s<>cial and educational matters, by sermon and address, as well as of the books of a purely literat·y character written by them, and gives a vivid impression of their personality. '98.-Edward P. McKeefe, who is an attache of the Agricultural Departtnent of the Stale Chetnist, was one· of the principals in a quiet wedding in Albany, Nov. 14th. The bride, formally _Miss Mary F . .P. Wilson, tl1e daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Williatn J. Wilson of Albany, is an accornplished and popular young lady of tl1at city. , The ceren1.ony took place at the Episcopal residence in Alban:y, and was performed by the Rt. Rev. Thomas M. A. Burke. By reason of the illness of the bride's' mother, the event was witnessed by immediate relatives only. William J. Wilson, Jr., was best man, and Miss Helen E. Wilson was bridesmaid. Mr. and Mrs. McKeefe are enjoying their honeyn1oo.n in the west. 'r'hey will reside in Albany. The Adel phic's have elected the f<>Uovving officers for the winter term: President, R. S. Bahler, 'or ; vice-president, H. M., Parsons, 'o2, secretary, J. A. Bolles, '03; treasurer, W. A. Cowell, 'o2. The Allison-Foote debaters are J. H. Cletnents, Jr., ~or ; John McNab,, ~oz; John A. Bolles, 'o3. Arthur S. Golden, ~<>I, is alternate. lT FAYS ST\IDE.NTS OF c''INIO'N•• TO T.R.AI)'e WITH \IS. A special discount of 1:0% on TOOTH BRUSHES, HAIR BRUSHES and PERFUMES to aH \Union\ men. W. N. Bailey, Mgr. Opp. Post Office. Sporting Goods ! Base Ball Supplies. Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photographers' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. ·--AT-- J. A.. RICKARD & CO.'S., 253 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

16 --ADVERTISEMENTS.-............._ PIG:IFOl;~D· BROS., '' Union Markot.\ :D6alets ill' All Fresb Meats and Poultry. ·Game in Season. Telephone 38-F. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT ST. ·~ 'PE.A 'lT TEACHERS' AGENCY R..:Jcommends college and normal graduates, specialists, and other teachers to colleges, ,public and private schools and families. A.dvisesparents about schools. WM. 0. PRATT, Manager. 7o Fi:fthAve., New York. CLASS PIPES Original Designs In theGua.~anteed ~PIPES Our Bc()k on 'Pipes for the asking. -3\·e>Pi:N M~r)rJ~PlTe)N, Importer and Manufacturer. 217 Wa.lnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA. CHAS. BURROWS, Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Rubber Stamps, Picture Framing, Printing, etc. 410-414 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SWENY SPORTINC Cooos Co. 72 State St., ALBANY, N. Y. CoKPLETE LINE. BEST QuALITY. 73 S'TA.TE STREET. ALBANY, N. Y. GY:M:NASIUM: SlJITS. ATHLETIC GOODS. Buy your Camera Supplies of Finch S: Hahn, 304 State Street. LA.\BGEST STGCJK, LOWEST PRICES. 110N BRAND TRADE MARK ATHLETIC ROBES LOUNGING ROBES BATH ROBES FOR SALE IN SCHENECTADY BY Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- Wood Brothers.

---.--ADVERTISEMENTS.---~-- lf .S·CHENECTADY LOCOtiOTIVE WORK.S. ~ LOCOMOTIVES § of Standard Designs for all classes of ·~ service, or from designs furnished by ~ railroad companies. - ·- -· = - Annual Capacity. 450. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. AN EASY WAY TO EARN $25.00 We will pay tllis to anyone sendin&\ us 20 ne-w yearly .sub· scriptions. a c ~om • panied by the 'full ~early price 'for each subscription. • • .• •• Send two cent stamp for prospectus. sam· , pte copies and par· tlculars •••••••••• . Outing Publishing Co. · 239 Fifth Ave., N.Y. THE I.JARGEST AND HANDSOMEST JEWELRY STORE IN THE STATE. SIM, PEIRSON & CO., BROADWAY & SECOND ST., iROY, N., Y. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. W. & L. E. GURLEY, @'·~I~··® 514 Fulton St., T~OY, N. Y. Largest Manufacturers in America .. I • •• I of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing lnstruntents and Materials. Union Golloge Book ~tore . ·~· ..., ..... ~ All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note Books, Fine Stationery, etc. A limited number of the SoNGS OF '' OLD UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE.

---AD'VERTISEltffiNTS.-__...... Electric Lightittg Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Po wet\ Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. Sales offices. i:n all the large cities ef the· lT nited States • ... ~~__, General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Headquarte.rs for No\lelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W H T Manufactni'e-rs of High-Grade Frater- R I C nity Emblems, .Fraternity .Jewelry, · ' Fraternity :Novelties, Fraternity Pro- K & C gt·ams .. Fraternity Stationery, Frater- A Y · 0. nity Aniloti.ncements, li'raternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. 140-142 WoocZu!ard A11~., DETROIT, lJ:C.IOH. Complete Stock of Monarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. High Grade Merchant Tailor;. ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT~ 263 STATE STREET; SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Mackintoshes made to order. :t;te~l Estate Dealer. J. A.. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class M·eals. 2t Tickets, $3.00. :1.44: South Oen tre St. THE WQRJ)Etf RESTAURIIH'T A. L. STICKNEY, Prop. 258 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N.Y. The Finest Table Board In The City. Open from 6 A. M, to 12 P.M. Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY HOOSE, Best B,illiard and PooZ Pa-rlors i-n the City. ::e.a.tea $2.5 0 :Pe::l:' :Ce.:y a.::c.c1. \'C'\:pvra:z:a.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Union c.· loth. ing Co. H: uyler·'·s 80 ~ .. A~2.NS ·. CHOCOLATES. ALBANY, N.Y. FALL STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-B1och Clothes.\ :Best in the World. fQRNISHINQS, H4TS~:·ETt. Ten per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drugs. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

--ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Sales offices in all the largE <Jities •••• of the United States . • • • • ~ __..!-!'___, Electric Lighting- Apparatus. Electric General Railway ; Apparatus. Electric E,lt!dric Powt!r Co. Apparatus. Elt!dric Tra1zstnission of Power. •• / •• SOI-IENECT ADY, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Sllitings. Special attention always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W.R lc HT' :Manufaeturers of IIigh-GTa.<ie Frater- nity Emblems, .Fraternity~ Jewelry, Fraternity Noveltit>s, Fraternity Pro- K & C grams, Fraternity Statiotlei'Y• Frater- A Y 0. nity Announcements, Fraternity In- vitation~. ReiHl for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. 140-142 Woodward A've., DETROIT, lJIJCII. Union Clothing Co. ALBANY, N.Y. FALL STOCK COMFLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.'' Best 1n the \Vorld. f\QRNISHIN<:iS HATS, ETt. Ten .per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION. Complete Stock of MoBarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. Hid1 Gra<ile Merchant 'Taitor- ing. Oniy first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. :Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealer. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clintan Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOl\I. First Class Meals. 21 Ti:cke\ts, S3.00. :1.44 South.. Centre St. --- -----~~-------- -- THE WORDEN RE5T AURJIN~T A. L. STICJ{NEY, Prop. ~58 STA '1'1<~ STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N. Y. The Finest Table Board In Tbe City. Open from 6 A. M. to 12 P. M. ============----- -==================== Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N.Y. Best Billiard and Pool Parl(WS in the Citu. ::e.a.tes $~.50 J?e:r :Cay e..:n..d. \''\J?vr&rd... Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. T~OY, N. Y. BON BONS Huyler's ... AND ••• CHOCOLAT.ES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drue:s. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. i' I \' I I· ' 1 I I I I ' ... •

i' I· ' { I I I I ' ... • '' ' . ' . ' --·ADVERTISEMENTS.----------- Chas. Holtzmann Carries tke Larg-est and .B.est Line of IN THIS CITY .. Students are entitled to a ten per cent. discount. S. E. Miller, MEN'S FURNISHIN·G GOOD;8, SOLE AGENT FOR THE REGAL SH·OE . 259 State St. SOIIENEOTADY, N. Y. 34-36 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. ·?··~JIUihli!R.~~---;. CLARK WITBECK EUROPEAN Skates, Hard ware, fill(Q)jf~IL A ~ A :~~~·y 1Rl~~d4IlffiT 9 Bicycles. · Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. QENTLEMEti ONLT. 2.50 ROOMS. LADIES' RESTAURANT ATTACHED. WILLIAM H. KEELER, PROPa A.NNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ DOBERMANN'S ~ ~- ICE CREAM AND ICES ~ ~ Are Absolutely Pure. ~ 238 Sta.te St. SCHENEC'I.' ADY, N.Y. J · ~~~~~~~~~~~GEYGU>, PETER TIERNEY, ----AGENT FOR---- ·gardner, (~tone ~ go. laundrg, 307 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FRIEDMAN BROS., Wholesale Dealers in SOUTHE~N PRODUCE, BUTlER, CHEESE, EGGSI FRESH FISH, OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. Potatoes a Specialty. 102 So. Centre St. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Telephone ~5. 413 STATE STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ======~=-,=--=------~---- -~-- FINE COLORED SHIR'l,S FOR MEN ...... Beautifully made shirts, fine as custom made goods, all the finest tnaterials and ch9icest pat- terns, skillfully cut for perfect fitting. We make a spe~ialty of only, the best goods in our Men's Furnishing Goods Departtnent. Full lines of the latest requisites for men's use. Exclusive styles and lowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO. Boots arrtd Sltoes Repait~ed. We respectfully request the patronage of the students. First-class workmanship. :Moder- ate prices. 422UnionSt., · B MARK Schenectady, N. Y. · • ' · • * * * laterer and le6taurateu.r. ~!!-_-----UTICA, N. Y. LEE W. CASE. ESTABLISHED 1840. F. W. McCLELLAN. LE'\\V:C O.A.SE &; 00 . ., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steatn Heating, Plumbing, Metal Work. WARREN STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. i ' ' \, .. ~-~--'

, ' I . . . •'' - '' • 1 D . ·-o-·n· 't c· ·nm· p· ·a·· :re · · · ' ' • ' : : _· - ._ :\::./ ' ':- ... '- : • • • f ' : • : : •• • • ~ • - ..... \'- ~· ..... -- . OuT . eiothing: with ~t:fi~. ki~.a' ·b3~ld; . ·:~­ in o:vdinary stores. RoGERS, PEET & Co.'s overcoats . \ and suits, rank with th·e finest lnade- to-Irieasure garments. We have the excl11sive sale of this clothing. CLOTHJERS-HA. TTERS-F'U'RNISHERS. 23-29 S. Pearl St. (DeGraaf Bld:g.) ALBANY, N.Y. DON'T CHAR.GE FANCY PRICE·S. MAKE ONLY ·To ORDER. ONLY MAKE UP FINE STUFF. LEO OPPENHEIM, THE TAILOR. . . ': . . . . . .. . . Extr,nsiY.e Ladies Dept . . . . . . . . 78 and SO .So. Pearl St. .A.L::S.A..l.'f\-y- l:'f\. -r. WOOD BROS., Latest styles of Fall and Winter Hats and Caps. Dress Shirts. Immense line of Underwear and Neckwear. Perrins Bros. Kid Gloves. '' Mens' Outfitters.'' ... 265 ... STATE S'I\, \ SCHENECTADY. . ~ . . -~ . _.,_ ., ' - ~ -~ .. --- ~- ~-~\-·-· ~·---- -+ .. ~~~ . -.........-...... - ·-- ---- ~- ~ -- ·- ~--- ~-· ------.: ~·- ~- ·---~·---' ··~- __ ..,___ '

