...._._..._. ADVERTISEMENTS.-· -- lnterconegiateCap.s and Gowns, : O. G. CRAFT & CO., COTRELL & LEOI.ARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. Suits and Overcoats 1 COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALB-ANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Hoods. Botham Carts. TQ·(J CJIN J)Q IT El~~JL T •. SANDWICHES, all kinds. Custom or R·eady-Made. TOUR CREDIT 15 QOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, ... Wholesale and Retail... Coal and Wood. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. H M ROGERS STATE CoR. JAY. ·· . · JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. I I . . . . I JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WHOLES·ALE CROCERS, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, 306, 308 and 310 Union. 2'18-222 State St. Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 a.nd 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. Tobacco, Grain and PTovisions. JOHN KRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' T .A..:ILO:R. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made Suitl5 and .Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'~ RESTAURANT, BEST 25c DINNBB IN THE OITY. OPEN DA. Y AND .NIGHT. Ladies' aniL Gents' Restaurant. 4:43 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 5CHERMERI10RH & CO., GENERAL INSURA.NCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. ScHENEO'rADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, The Ten Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and European Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restanrantand Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCK'WELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS : 9 A. M. TO 4 p. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

--ADVE'RTISEMENTS . ......._....,__..._..,. Hotel Vendom,e Just a word Refitted and Rifurnisked. Uttier New Manage~~nt. Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. H . .A. PE:OK, PROJlE.' S;CHENECTADY, N. Y. To The Bog$ of 1901-2-3 and 4! ... CALL ON .•. JI~GAFFEES •• FO.R YOUR •• ~oDf~ctionary, T~aa~~a ui ~ig&r~. 511 Union Street. • • • <§HE • • • Edi&O>D .s- Hotell, SGHENEGT'ADY, N, Y. The Largest and .Best App()intrd H()te! in the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial T:ra..velers. SN}lPPY\ T:IP-TO·B}l TE F@OTWEJIR --.AT-- JOHN E. KOCH'S, 257 ST.ATE Sr., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W. L. DOUGLAS SHOJJ.S, BEST ON EARTH f3.oo ancl $J.so. to the $6.'00 Shoe weare:rts! \THE ~ALSTON HEALTH SHOES AT $4.00'' were made to satisfy you, with water-proof soles and in all kinds ()f leathers. JOHN W. EMERY, POPULAR PRICED SHOES. 321 STATE ST.' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~- P!. WNST'P-'~~~. HEWS'DfALER ~ ST ~TI Q:tfER. Magazine and Periodical Department . IMPO:QTED AND DOMESTIC CIGA~S. TOBACCO ~OF ALL KINDS. 403 UNION ST~EET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. TI-ITES' BOAT HOUSE. · The Largest and Best Equipped in the , State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can . be rented for Private Parties only, in con- nec-tion with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTAMIESTAQKANT AND L'INC:H ROOM. 338 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Meal Tickets Scld. Eest Inducements to Students. Open from '5:30 A. M. to 1:00 A. M. WOIILJJERG & ZEISLER, Props. C. H. Benediet, KaDa,ger. Telephone 335. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JAN. 11 and 12.- \The Dairy Farm.\ TUESDAY, JAN. 15.- May Irwin in \'Nadge Smith, Atty. \ THURSDAY, JAN. 17.-Shubert Club Concert. FRIDAY, JAN. 18.--\Arizona.\

The Conco.rdiell sis VoL. XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 10, 1901. No. 12. President Qaymond Sees a Splendid Future in the Development <>f Engi- neering and Civil Service ,Schools. The reunion and banquet ()f the New York Alumni association at the Hotel Savoy was a decided success. A large number of graduates were present to renew old acquaintances. The college quartet added to the pleasantness of the .occasion by rendering many Union songs. Dr. Daniel M. Stitnson, '64, acted as toast- master. On the toast list were Dr. Raymond; Dr. Willian1 Wells ; Gen. Atna.sa J. Parker, '63, president of the. Albany Law School; Dr. Joseph D. Craig, '8o; William H. McElroy, '6o; Andrew W. Gleason, '61 ;. Edward Cary, '63; Rev. Dr. William Irvin, and Edward P. White, '79· President Raymond's toast, \ Ok1 Union,\ was full of trust in the future of tl1e university and college. He spoke of the encouraging record of the past year, recalling tile announce- ment made in June by the treasurer that the col- lege was absolutely free fron1 debt ~nd that the liquidation of the former bunlensorne financial obligations was a triumph in financiering th~t entitled the board of trustees, and especially the treasurer, to the confidence :and gratitude of every alumnus. He also spoke ()f the credit reflected upon the faculty, w l1o had willingly accepted reduced salaries in order that tl1e neces- sary retrenchment might not intet·fere with the full work of the college, and he added that it was with profound satisfaction that he was able to state that with the beginning of the present college year the salaries had been restot·ed. The president next called attention to new buildings adorning the college C2,mpus, and announced for the first time officially the name of the donor of one of the buildings, theY. M. C. A. hall, the Hon. Horace B. Silliman, LL. D., ,of Cohoes, a member of the class of r846. The evidence of material progress thus indi- cated, the president felt, should put new lleart and hope in all. Continuing he said: \Let me dwell upon the directions on which I think we should seek to develop the life of the college. So far as possible we must make the college stand for something distinctive, and this should be determined by the most favorable conditions. \Schenectady is today the seat of the greatest electrical industry in the world ;. any one who has not visited the city in recent years can have no :conception of the transfonnation that has been wrought. The once quiet, dignified, fin- ished town, dominated by the college on the hill, has become the home of a great anny, con- stantly increasing, of skilled mechanics, trained engineers and scientific specialists. The pro- ducts of the great shops in the valley are carried to every land, and from every land come visitors l to Schenectady to see the triumphs of An1erican ' ingenuity and enterprise in the field of electricity. It is the recognized centre of the electrical wodd. Under these conditions it seems inevitable that Union college must develop the scientific side of its work. \Schenectady is the natural seat of a great engineering school ; no other place in America offers sucl1 advantages. The very atmosphere is charged with the spirit of scientific inquiry and investigation, with the great engineering and constructive enterprises. If ever an institu· tion faced a tnagnificent opportunity, batl its futut·e providentially and unmistakably indicated, that institution is Union college. The advant- ages for the development of a school of engineer- ing, especially electrical engineering, a1·e so manifest that practical men cannot fail to recog- nize them. In this connection it is well fot· us to recall the familiar fact that Union was the first college in this country to introduce an engineering course. It is as though our past

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. were a prophetic preparation fer this day of ' opportunity. We have only to build on founda- tions already laid. Surely there is a 1·ecognition of the eternal fitness of things in the special advantages now· facing the college, which was , the pioneer in scientific and technical instruction. \This however, is not all I want to say. It is not the only direction in which I think the college should develop for I have no idea of • turning all our energies into the field of indus- trial science. If our history and traditions point us in that direction they point us with equal certainty in another direction. As no other col- lege, Union has trained men for public life. This I think, is generally recognized. ''Today our country has entered upon a new and larger life. Whatever our regrets, wl1atever our fears and misgivings, however n1uch we may shrink frotn the responsibilities involved, Atnerica is now and tnust be hereafter one of the great world powers, with all that implies of ever increasing foreign relations. As a result, problems of government are once more supreme, and no duty of the present is tnore in1perative than that of training men for the service of the nation at hotne and abroad. To this duty I pro- pose Union colleget shall address itself in further fulfillment of the tnission that can1e with its life. But this calls for tnore than a general training in the duties of citizenship. In no one respect is the spirit of our age n1ore evident than in the demand for specialization. This marks the progress of civilization. \tVhat is needed is a course of instruction, especially designed to meet the requiretnents of governn1ent service. The importance of such a civil service school is seen at once when we tbink of the obligations that have con1e with our new possessions and our increasing diplotnatic and trade relations with other lands. \Not only does the spirit of the past of Union college lead us to undertake such a course of instruction, but we are encouraged to do so by a recent gift. The tenns of the bequest of the late Thomas A. Annstrong clearly indicate that something of this ldnd was in his mind. His gift lays the foundation upon which we can build and shall build until training for govern- ment service becomes a distinctive and recog~ nized feature of Union college life. 'ro this end will contribute the old curriculum of the hutnan- ides., which is still in force with us, and around which gather our most honored traditions. ·~'Gentlemen, in advancing along the two definite lines which I have indicated, I believe not only that we shall avail ourselves of peculi- arl:y favorable conditions and tneet sotne of the most urgent needs of our tin1es, but, what is equally itnportant, shall be true to the spirit of our glorious past,. tnaintaining the traditions and continuing the life which has tnade Union college a distinctive force in the educational world.\ Dr. Craig's response touched on lessons drawn from the life of the late Robert C. Alexander. The main extracts follow : \This meeting, I have been informed, was to have been a joyous gathering of the loyal and devoted sons of Old Union. And so it has been, enjoyable in its associations, delightful in its fellowship, inspiring in its enthusiastn. Not even if we would we could not fail to feel the absence of one of Union's most beloved sons. This is the first public occasion I have had, a_nd I sl1ould despise tnysilf should I not take the advantage of it, to express my admiration of the character and achie\-etnents of him who was best known an1ong u;:; as 'Bob' Alexander. He was my classn1ate in that noted class of 'So. 'Bob' Alexander was the scholar of that class. But he was more, he was the natural leader in every direction of class activity. 'The leaders lead and the leaders will lead.' He was a born leader and in consequence assun1ed his natural place. Was that class noted for its good fellow- ship? Perhaps it was his magnetic personality that made hitn so. Was that class noted for its loyalty and devotion to Union's interests? Per- haps its members simply followed where he led. Was that class noted for its enthusiastic co-oper- ation in all the functions of college life? Per- haps it was his own boundless enthusiastn that inspired us all. What he wai in college he was aftet·wards in a leat·ned profession, in business, in the Board of Trustees. 'A truer, nobler, trusting heart, More loving and more loyal, never beat Within a human breast.'-

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ ''It is a lesson from his life that I wish to suggest only too briefly here tonight. I would that the time and the occasion were tnine to speak ,more fully on the theme. '''We sometimes think that success in life only crovvn the labors of those who acquire great wea.lth or attain distinguished position in letters, or politics or the professions. We forget that that n1an is also a successful one who, recogniz- ing the litnitations of his own mental and pb.ysical nature does the best he can within tl1en:1. This man takes all that heredity, all that en vironn1ent, all that opportunity has offered hin1 and does his level best. The great man can, do no tnore. ''The power of an arn1y to do effective work depends as tnuch upon the loyalty of the rank and file as upon the ability of the commanding officer. Either is powerless without the other. 'Il1e educated world recognizes the scholarship, the high character, the 1narked executive ability of the head of the university, the President of Union college. But while we appreciate the etninent qualities of the commander, Union col- lege can never fulfill her greatest destiny with- out the loyal and hearty co-operation of the rank and file. There is strength in numbers and those who love Union best will endeavor to bring to the support of the college the humblest as well as the greatest of her sons. ~;'When 'Bob' Alexander went to Union col- lege he was unknown and untried. He rose fr()tn the rank and file. He proved his worth and ~ained t'llarked recognition. When 'Bob' Alexander went into the permanent Board of Trustees what did he bring? Certainly not great wealth. He brought a greater thing, a loyal and devoted heart, great love, the capacity fot- work and the willingness to use his talents fot· the benefit of Alma Mater. \I heHeve that the rank and file are the the strength of Union college today. Her future prosperity is dependent on their good will. From the ranks other men will rise like ~Bob' Alexander to do Union college good. I prophesy that fromatnong these men will eventu- ally and unexpectedly come the loyal son of Union who with open hand and grateful heart will pour from his rich stores upon Union that abundant endowment which she alone needs to bring back again her old tirne prosperity and to restore her old time reptdation. Then once n1ore will the old college be great which you and I so devotedly and devoutly love.'' At the business meeting, Frederick W. Sew- ard,, '49, was elected president for the ensuing year. 'The other officers are : Edgar S. Bar- ney, '84, secretary ; Rev. Dr. Charles D. N ott, '54, first vice-president; Gen. J. Rufus 'Tryon, '58, second vice-president; Bayard Whitehorne, '72, treasurer. Executive committee-Court- land V. Anable, '8r ; George T· Schermerhorn, '66; \iViHiatn G. Brown,. '95; George F. Sew- ard, '6o ;. Walter R. Benjamin, '74; Wilson M. Powell, '59 ; Isaac I-Iarby, '95 ; Edwin Einstein, '6r ; Charles D. l\1eneely, '8r ;. Albon Man, '49 ; Warner Miller, '6o ; George E. Marks, '79; Edward L. Parris, 'S7; Charles L. Bar- stow, '89; Wagner VanVlack, r9oo. Among those present were: John H. Starin ; Treasurer Gilbert K. I-Iarroun ; Pliny T. Sex- ton; William S. Bennett; Robert M. Fuller, '63 ; A. S. Newco1nb, '74; George W. Clark, '46; Williatn H. H. Moore, '44; Albon Man, '49; Frederick W. Seward, '49; James Cruik- shank, '5 I ; Silas B. Brownell, '52; John H. Burtis, '54; Rev. Dr. C. D. Nott, '54; Edward L. Parris, '57; Dr. A. H. Smith, '89; Gen. J. Rufus Tryon, '58 ; John M. Scribner, '59 ; Frank Loomis, '90; George F. Seward, '6o; Charles E. Sprague, '6o; E. B. Van Winkle, '6o; Andrew W. G Ieason, '6r ; Edwin Einstein, '61 ; Edward W. Paige, '64; Clark Brooks, '65 ; Daniel N. Lockwood, '65; William J. Kline, '72 ; ex-Secretary of War Daniel S. Lamont, '72; }an1es B. Lockwood, '7o; J. Newton Fiet·o, '67; Rev. Dr. George Alexander, '66; John Wallace, '65 ; George J. Schermerhorn, '66 ; Craig A. Marsh, '76 ; Frank A. DePuy, '77 ; F. H. Giddings, '77 ; Willian1. B. Rankine, '77 ; Williatn C. Robertson, '77; Charles A. Marks, '78; George E. Marks, '79; Edward P. White, '79; Richard D. Anable, 'So; Dr. Joseph D. Craig, '8o; T. C. Van Santvoord, '8o; Court- land V. Anable, '8r; Cha1·les D. Meneely, '81; Frededck W. Cameron, '8 I; Edward I. Devlin,

8 THE CONCORDIENSJB. '81; Louis A. Coffin, '72; Elijah W. Greene, '82 ; :Bayard Whitehorne, ~82; William K. Gil- christ, '83 ; W. Morris Gilbert, '83 ; ] . B. W. Lansing, '83; Edgar S. Barney, '84; Robert R. Benedict, '84; Frank Bailey, '85 ; Wallace T. Foote, jr., '85 ; Williatn F. Richards, '85 ; Rev. A. L. Bennett, '87; A. T. Ishkanian, '88; William L. Kennedy, '88 ; Cha1·les L. Barstow, '89; Clarence Johnson, '90; Douglas Catnpbell, '94; Clarke W. CranneH, '95; Frederick Kline, '95; John L. Sherwood, '99; Wagner Van Vlack, :r9oo; L. M. Bloon1ingdale, ex-1902. PAN-AM.EQICAN SPOQTS. The President of the Pan-Atnerican Expo- sition recently appointed a Cornmittee on Sports, as follows: Jesse C. Dann, chairman; Dr. Chas. Cary, J. McC. Mitchell, John B. Olmsted, Charles M. Ransom, Seward A. Simons, Wm. Burnet Wright, Jr. Soon after its appointtnent the Comtnittee invited the following named gentlemen to act as members of an Advisory Cotnmittee on Amateur Sports: Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, Walter Camp, C. C. Cuyler, C. S. Hyman (Canada), C. H. Sherrill, A. A. Stagg, Benjamin Ide Wheeler, Casper Whitney. The appoinbnent of this Advisory Committee emphasizes the desire of the Committee to have all amateur cotnpetitions occupy the highest possible plane. The Stadium, with a seating capacity of I z,ooo, is beautiful in design and promises to be one of the most successful architectural crea- tions of the Exposition. It will surround a qua1ter mile track with ground area ample for the requirements of all the events proposed. As to the nature of the athletic events planned, it may be said that amateur sports of all kinds will be encouraged as representing the most desirable of athletic cotnpetitions, and the mem- bers of the Committee on Sportsj being college graduates, particularly wish to make a special feature of college sports. In the management of Inter .. Collegiate events, it is the desire of the cummittee that the various college associations be invited to undertake as far as possible the arrangement of the necessary details connected therewith. Although amateur sports will cotnprise a large part of the programme, it is proposed to have such a num1ber of professional events as will allow visitors a opportunity to witness the athletic skiU of the best professsionals. The charactet· of prizes that will be offered has not yet been definitely detennined upon, but the assurance rnay be given that prizes will be awarded of value as lasting souvenirs of athletic success at the Exposition. It is pt·oposed to arrange a number of college baseball and football gatnes, and it is especially desired by tl1e Comn1ittee that the Eastern Inter- Collegiate (]. A. A. A.) Track tneeting be held in Buffalo next year. . An ideal p1·ogramme tnight 1 be to hold in the Stadium tbe Eastern Inter-Collegiate lvfeeting, then the Western Inter-Collegiate Meeting ; these to be followed by a Pan-American Meet- ing open to competitors in the two previous meetings and to representatives of other Inter- Collegiate Associations. Other Inter-Collegiate events have been con- sidered, such as La Ctnsse, Cross Country Running v-vith start and finish in the Stadium, etc., etc. The Cotntnittee on Spot·ts hope that the Exposition may have a full college representa- tion. It is p1·oposed to hold many oth~r sports in the Stadium, the A. A. U. Championship, Lawn Tennis, La Crosse, Cycling, Association Football, Water Sports, Trap and Target Shooting, etc., etc. All cotn tnunications sbo uld be sent to Jesse C. Dann, chairman, No. 433 Ellicott Square, Buffalo, N. Y. SOPHOMO:QE SOIREE. The 1903 Soiree is announced fot· Friday evening, February 15. The committee is sparing no effort toward making the dance a success. The tnusic will be an especial feature of the occasion. Liberal patronage is hoped for and expected frot~ the student body.

THE OONCORDTENSIS. 9 :QECENT P A TQIOTIC POETRY. The fourth lecture of the fall tenn was de- livered on Friday afternoon, December 14, by Dr. Bliss P~rry, editor of the \Atlantic Monthly.\ In introducing him President Ray- nlond said that he was in doubt as to how he should address h itn, whether as a base ball player on the Williams team, as an e&sa.yist, as a critic, Princeton professor, or as editor of the \Atlantic Monthly.\ Mr. Perry began by referring to the standard of modern tnagazi ne poetry and said that though tnuch criticized, it was fully equal to that of forty years ago. He gave the instance of the late Collis P. Huntington offering a prize for the best answer to ''The Man with the Hoe'' and receiving nearly 1000 poems. The majority of these were very poor, as so often happens when poetry is attempted for a &peeial time o1· occasion, but many of them possessed true poetic value. \Cardinal Gibbons said, 'next to God, our country should hold place in our affections.' Patriotic poetry is the expression in verse of the national feeling.\ l-Ie referred here to Edtnund Clarence Stedman's new\ Arnerican Anthology\ and called attention to it saying that out of the 2000 poen1s included, only between fifty and sixty were patriotic. The Anthology opens with a patriotic theme, \The Battle of Utah Springs\ and ends with one, R. W. Gilder's \The Parting of the Ways.\ He said that war was an occasion for sudden outbursts of poetic feeling and referred to the fine quality of Aldrich's \Unguarded Gates.\ Sectional and local poems could not be h1cluded under patriotic a.nd thus would be excluded many poetic verses written during and just after the civil war. \Danton i.n a toast to patriotism during the French revolution said, 'You ought to defend your country even if she is wrong for if sbe fall, her fall is greater than her error.' \The vast majot·ity of English verse of the last fifty years has been too exclusive, has ceased to be lunnanitarian in becoming British. The troubles in the Transvaal have been the su'bject of much so-called patriotic poetry. Two exa:mpl'es of this kind are Henley's 'Envoy'' w:hich is full of race pride and fury and W at- sori:'s 'How Weary is the Heart,' which is full of pride and also contains a tender love of race and COl!lntry. Kipling is the poet of a patriotic verse of another order. His is of a broader humani,ty. Yet his 'Recessional' contains an ar,rogance that is very prominent,-' Lord if our Fathers.' ,, ·'Poetry cannot be written by wanting to write it. Better work than sing the 'Song of the Sldrt.' Better to 'take up the white man's bu:t•Clen' than to wax sentimental over it. '''The outbreak of the Spanish-American war wa:S the occasion for much verse-making. Among the best that appeared was 'When the Great_ Grey Ships Come in.' ''Stedman says in the preface to his Mythology that the outbreak was too short, the war was too brief for our bards to tune their strings. The present contest in the Philippines has caused n1uch, the most of which is rather against the coa:flict than in favor of it. Moody's 'ln Tim.e of Hesitation' belongs to this class. '\To a poet it is righteousness and not foreign trade tl~at has made a country. There is no poetry in the full-dinner pail, likewise there is none in the empty dinner pail.\ Dr. Perry closed by quoting En1erson, \The Anglo- SaKons are proud, strong and selfish, for them the11e is only the Anglo-Saxon.\ NEW BASKETBALL TEAM. Union To Re-enter This Field of Sport. As a result of the interest that is being shown in this city in the gatne of basketball, it has beeE decided to organize a team at Union. Fenwick M. Thebo, 1902, who was captain of the teatn of two years ago, has been elected captain. A ~utnber of promising candidates hav-e already appeared. Games are to be arranged with several college and other repre- senta.ti ve teams.

10 THE OONCORDIENSIS:. THE CONCORDIENSIS .. PultJisked .Every· Wu.i .Duri1tg\ ike Ct~llege Year, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BO.ARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE 1\:f.ERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BAI{RETT, 1901,. Business Manager , JOHN MeN AE, 1901, - - Literary Editor ARTHUR 8. GOLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHUR S. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. R. R. CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HA. WKES, 1902, A. H. HINMAN, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, A. 8. PECK, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, S. B. HowE, JR., 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, R. C. DONNAN, 1903. TERMS: CoNCORDIENSrs, Single Copies, $2.00 per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, :Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at th.e Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Cbas. Burrews, Printer, 414 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. THE coming indoor track meet with the Wash- ington Continentals should be a strong incentive to all men interested in this branch of athletics. Union has but a small amount o£ promising track material this year. The meet, the~efore, presents an excellent chance for development to men who intend making themselves proficient upon the track. Freshmen, especially, should recognize the splendid opportunity offered them and enter into active training. THE sincere applause which followed Dr. Ray- mond's announcement of the name of the donor of the new Y. M. C. A. building, at the New York alumni banquet, meets with a hearty second from the student body. .Dr. Silliman, whether as student, alumnus, or trustee, has always proved himself :a devoted son of Old Union. As her bene- factor,. he now gives practical expression to that devotion, and even more than that, sets a worthy example. The Concordiensis suggests that Dr. Silliman's fellow alumni ought not to forget the proposed plan for remodeling South College. THE annual contest of theN. Y. State Oratorical League is schedu1ed by the constitution to take place during the first week in March. It is time, then, for the students to begin considering the matter and getting- their orations in shape, for subject matter counts as well as delivery. The man who starts early with his preparations will have a better chance than the others. This con- test is open to members of all four classes .and no regard will be paid to what class a. competitor belongs.. It is well to remember that three years ago, when the contest was held here, a sophotnore won the prize, for this shows the impartiality of the judges at the preliminary contest. Union has already won the prize twice. The necessity of winning it this year, when the contest is held under our auspices, should urge every man who has any ability along that line to enter the contest. Syracuse pays more attention to oratory than does Union and has more stimuli in large money prizes than the Garnet, so it will be more to our credit if one of Union's sons can carry off the prize. The preliminary contest is usually held about the middle <Jf February., so that gives every one over a month t<J write and commit an oration. Let every one who has ability therefore appreciate the obliga- tion which rests n pon him and enter the contest. Y. M. C. A~ NOTE'! Chait·man Taylor of the Bible Study cotnmit- tee of the Y. M. C. A., has organized two classes for the study of the Bible. Both meet in the Y. M. C. A. rooms and will be held during this tenn. One, led by Mr. Metzger, meets Wednesday evening and takes up the study of the A.cts and Epistles. The other of which Mr. Clements is leader, meets Friday evening and is studying tl1e Life of Christ. An invitation is extended to all to attend.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 UNSCIEN'TIFIC SCIENCE. An Answer by· Dr. Jones to \Science Against Free Trade.\ It would be difficult to find a n1ore compact bundle of fallacies, inaccuracies and absurdities than is comprehended within the limits of Nlr. Benedict's article entitled \Science against Free- Trade.\ 1'he article is an attetnpt to show by a scientific examination wherein .a certain plank in the Democratic platform of 1900 is erroneous. That part of the platfonn assailed reads thus: ''Tariff laws should be atnended by putting the products of trusts upon the free list to pre- vent tnonopoly under the plea of protection.\ Mr. Benedict tnaintains that this would be ~'jutnping from the frying pan into the fire'' because if carried to its logical conclusion it \<vould result in universal free-trade; which, he asserts, would finally fix wages all over the w·orld at the level of wages prevalent in the neighborhood of the equator. That such wages would not include the cost of living in colder clitnates. Therefore, free-trade as a remedy for trusts would result eventually in the reversion of the laborer in temperate clitnate~ to a savage condition, or in his tnigration toward the equa- tor, or in his extennination. That, con- sequently, \tariff barriers are indispensable to profitable industries in the higher latitudes.\ Mr. Benedict's scientific method of sub- stantiating this thesis consists in : I. Drawing wrong conclusions fron1 Adam Smith's maxim that free-trade should enable every country to buy in the che~-tpest and sell in the dearest market. II. Twi'sting the earth (for illustrative pur- pose~) into a shape to £t these wrong con- clusions and calling the metatnorphosed result '\Adam Smith's Earth.\ Likewise, applying his own interpre.tation to the normally shaped earth and calling it the \Real Cotnmercial Earth.\ III. Maintaining that difference in climatic conditi.ons makes tariff barriers or \protection\ absolutely indispensable. Let us consider Mr. Benedict's attack upon free-trade under those three heads. I. His statement that in conformity with Adam Smith's maxim we must agree that \every ,country must excel all other countries in cheapness of producing some things and be excelled by thetn in Gheapness of producing other things,\ is correct and without exception. Likewise, that (3) ''of the goods in the pro- duction of which free-trade demonstrates its superiority, each country must always produce and be ready to exchange a surplus sufficient to supply the world outside,\ cannot be gainsaid and is a correct deduction from Smith's maxim. But unfortunately it has absolutely nothing to do with Mt·.Benedict's argument. 1'his he himself saw very clearly as evidenced by the fact of his making no use of it .. The next deduction, however, is altogether wrong. It is ( 2) that \each country's advant- ages tnust equal and exactly balance its disad- vantages, so that its surplus products tnay always supply n1eans to pure base abroad the things it is not allo·w·ed to produce nnder fi·ee- trade.\ To begin with, the words \equal\ and \exactly\ are limitations that cannot be drawn frorn Smith's maxim except by a forced and most unfair interpretation. With these words otnitted, the sentence n1eans nothing. Smith gives us to understand most distinctly that under either a free-trade or a protec- tion regime, it matters not which, sotne nations undoubtedly will have the balance of trade against then1. Consequently that son1e nations will be poor and others will be rich. Now the cause of this disadvantage need not of necessity be due always to climatic or soil conditions. In fact, it tnay not be due to any natural or acquired causes but merely to the fact that other nations may not have acquired an economic desire (demand) for the kind of cotutnodities it produces at the greatest advan- tage. The nation, for exarnple, that produces bird's-nests, snails and mice as food products is very apt to be at an economic disadvantage with reference to the United States to the extent of the former's interest in those oriental choice morsels. The disadvantage will be the former's

12 THE OONOORDIENSIS. i' until we acquire an appetite for those delicacies. Then ag~i:n, there is a difference between the \'balance of trade\ and the \balance of pro- ducts.\ New countries like the American colonies usually have the balance of trade against thetn; bnt the developtnent of the country may ,, be so 1·a pid that the balance of products in her favor tn ay be greater than the balance of trade a o-ai ns t l~er. 0 II. Let us turn our attention now to Mr. Benedict's illustrations. He holds that, on ·what he sees fit to call \Adan1 Smith's Eartl1,\ clin1ate is a negligible quantity in estimating cost of pr<>duction. This i!\ not a true exposition of Smith's doctrine. He and his followers ahvays give climate the importance due it in evet]' concrete case; and that is just the point. Frequently places have unusual natural or acquired advantages so great that they entirely outweigl1, the disadvantages of climatic condi- tions. For example: the climate of the Klon- dike is cold and the soil is barren, but the dis- covety ()f paying gold diggings makes the clinHtte and soil of only secondary hnportance. After putting up and knocking down and carrying ~way a white ancl black checkered straw earth which he calls \Adam Smith's Earth,\ Mr. Benedict proceeds to erect a black bel ted globe whicli l1e insists is the \Real Co rnmercial Earth.\ On this earth, he n1aintains., at a given point, climate is a fixed and Utla.ltet·able quantity in the cost of pro- duction. It may be and is true on \his earth\ but on the real earth such is only relatively true for reasons I l1ave already stated. He l1okls, likewise, that the equator is the cheapest 'Spot. Far fron1 being the fact in the case, quite the reverse is frequently true. Intense beat is quite as unfavorable an element in pro<luction, as it is carried on in civilized countries, as intense cold. It may be quite as impossible for Europeans and Atnericans to produce to advantage on the fertile, malarious, pest-infested bottom lands of the equatorial river valley• as on the barren, glacier and moraine covered plateaus of Greenland. On the ()thar hand, the Arctic regions are not necessarily tbe ''dearest spots\-where pro- duction is carried on at the greatest disad- vantage. In fact, sometitnes the reverse is true ; for instance, in the case of the Klondike gold diggings, the seal, cod, whale and mackerel fisheries. Moreover, the state,ment that \spots are cheaper the nearer they are to the equator and dearer the nearer they are to the pole,\ cannot be substantiated by facts. It is a truth patent to every one that production is carried on to the greatest advantage in the North Tetnperate Zone. There you find the most civilized, energetic and progressive nations--great in- dustrially and comtnercially. Either with or without a protective tariff they are easily able to undersell the \penny-a-day\ labor of the tropics. A correct illustration of conditions actually existing would be a sphere with innumerable blotches scattered in every conceivable state of disorder over the surface of the globe. The centre of the blotches should be dark in propor- tion to the locality's productive advantage and should be gradually shaded to\vat~ds the peri- phery. }\\\or example, we should have blotches at the Klondike, at the tnini ng districts of Pennsylvania, at the natural waterfalls of New England and at the vineyards of California. On the other hand, the rich bottom lands of India, the malarious valleys of the Congo and Amazon and the rice marshes of South Caro- lina, would be represented by relatively white spots. III. With regard to Mr. Benedict's tnain thesis as stated at the beginning of this paper, I trust I have shown the following facts to be true : FIRST, that climatic differences tnay be, and frequently are, of secondary importance in the cost of production. SECOND, that certain commodities are pro- duced most advantageously in tetnperate and even in frigid zones. If these two statements have been sub- stantiated, then there is left of Mr. Bene- dict's thesis nothing but the following: \that difference in clin1atic conditions rnakes tariff barriers absolutely indispensable to profitable industries.\ But is even this true ? I think not. If it is true, then why not have a protective tariff in t I ' 'i J

t I ' 'i J 1\\ \ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 cold, manufacturing Maine and Massachusetts as against warm cotton-growing Alabama and M'ississippi? or barren New Hampshire as against fertile Florida? or wheat-producing Montana as against berry-producing Delaware ? Is there any ·econotnic reason why accidental boundary lines should arbitrarily d.etennine whether ()l' not there should be freedom of pro- duction as betvveen parts of a ho,moge:neous con- tinent? or as between the nations of the world ? What talismanic power is there in the word ''nation\ to change the natural working of economic laws ? Protection no doubt, can be, in certain cases, supported by the very good argument of political exigency, but that is not the question to be decided here. Mr. Benedict tries to show that the science of physiography proves con- clusively that tariff barriers (protection) are in- dispensable to profitable industries in the higher latitudes (i. e. United States). I do not believe he proves his case. F. R. JoNES. INDOO~ TRACK MEET. Union to Meet the Washington Conti- nentals in February. ''Track manager Cletnents has arranged for an indoor meet with the 37th Separate Company at the annory on the evening of February 14. Captain Weed has already organized the track squad and started it in active work. But a small number of men have reported for work as yet and he therefore requests that any and all who are interested in track athletics, will report to hitn at the gymnasiutn imtnediately. Felt- housen, tl}.e crack runner, is now a tnember of the Continentals. The company has other strong men who have entered into active training. JUNIOQ HOP. The first junior hop of r902 will be given at the boat bouse Friday evening, January 18. The com mit tee will endeavor t? do everything poisible to tnake the affair a success. CH~ISTMAS TQIP OF THE MUSICAL CLUBS. Splendid Qeceptions at Lowville, Water- town and Canajoharie. The musicaJ organizations, consisting of the Glee, Mandolin, Banjo and Guitar clubs, had a very successful and al:together enjoyable trip during the Christmas vacation. The tnen left Schenectady on the morning of December twentieth, some thirty \happy college fellt>\-~s .and that evening in the handsotne new audi- torium at Lowville, N.Y., they rendered their first concert. Prof. Perry of the Lowville Academy tendered the students a very courteous reception, and the audience, arnong \Vhose num· ber was the entire student body of the Academy, generously applauded the efforts of the col· legians. The progratn was carried out with exceptional snap and vigor, and every nutnber was heartily encored. The college songs were great favorites, the \Terrace Song,\ and \Union Beside the Mohawk Vale\ being especially well received. The lvfandolin and Banjo dubs can1e in for their share of the honors, each trying to outdo the other in pleasing the audience. The next day at Watertown, the clubs were very cordially received by Charles D. Griffith, '98, who had been untiring in his efforts to n1ake the concert a success, and that evening a very enthusiastic audience greeted their efforts. U n~on is apparently a great favorite at Water- town, judging from the n1any words of praise with which the clubs wet·e rewarded. After the concert the men enjoyed a dance given in their honor by Mrs. Woolworth and Mrs. Griffith. It was a happy climax to the evening's pleasures, and itnplanted in the hearts of all a pleasant retnetnbrance of the trip to Watertown. The last concett, given at Canajoharie, was as well received as at the two previous places. The clubs were somewhat handicapped, in that several of the members were unable to ren1ain for that concert, but the selections were well rendered, and the audience was a very apprecia- tive one. A number of graduates and tnany ardent admirers of \Old Union\ were present. Later in the evening the clubs were given a very enjoyable dance, and with tl1at pleasant affair the Christmas trip ended.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE FQESHMAN BANQUET. Sophomores Outwitted and a Fine Spread Given at the Edison. The freshman banquet was successfully given at tbe Edison on the evening of December 14. All the officers and speakers were present, though the sophomores spirited off the supposed toastt:naster to a country hoterl. Winslow B. Watson proved an excellent toasbnaster. Responses were given by J. Gilbert Cool, the president; Satnuel R. Davenpot·t, on \1904 ;'' J. Lewi Donhauser, on \The Sophomores;\· Richard F. Warner, 1901, on \Athletics;\ Robert W. Clark, on\ 1904 in the Classroom;\ Dr. Herbert L. Tovvne, on \The Faculty ;\ Hen1y J. Langlois, on \The Fair Sex;\ and Pror .. John I. Bennet, on \Old Union.\ A large nutnber of upper classtnen were present as guests of the freshmen, and all pro- nounced the affair a success. Previous to the banquet, the freshmen had kept the names of the class officers secret. The list is as follows : President, J. G. Cool; vice-president, B. J. Lowenstein; secretary, E. r_r. Rulison; treas- urer, C. E. McCoon1bs ; toashnaster, W. B. Watson. THE ALUMNI COLUMN. Interesting News About Union Graduates. [Eve1\y alu1n1tus and undergraduate of Union is i1t- vitecl to send to the A lum1zi Editor items of inter- est./or insertion i1z this department. News of a pers()·Jtal11-ature, about any alumnus, will be gladly received and printed.] '4I.-I-Iamilton Harris, ex-senator, ex-con- gressman, regent of the university, and skilled attorney, died at his hotne in Albany Decen1ber I 4, at the age of 81. To the last he was engaged in the active practice of his profession and was practically stricken vvhile arguing a railroad datnage case early in that week. At the cl<>se of his argument he retired to his hotne and tvvo hours later lost consciousness. The ilnmediate cause of death is given as blood poisoning origi11ating from a bruise on the leg. Han1ilton Harris was one of the ,most prom- inent men1bers of tl1e New York State bar. He was the oldest n.ember of the Albany county bar, preceding WiHiatn C. McHarg by one year, Mr. McHat·g having graduated from Union in 1842. ::For 51 years Mr. Harris' name has appeared in the records of the highest courts of the State;, In the first year af:ter his adtnission to the~ bar his name appeared in the records of the C@Urt held by Chancellot· W al- worth at Sarat<Jga, and reappears continually down to the present time. His matked p<:)rsonal characteristic vvas his chivalry of the old school, his consideration and kindly treattnent of all with whotn he vvas associated in bttsi ness and otherwise. Mr. Rudd, in spealdt~g of his kindly disposition, said : \I have 11ever hea1·d him ask w by one thing was done one way or why another \vas not done. Eve1·yth.ing done for him seemed to ' be satisfactory.'' The death of his wife, which occurred Decem- ber II, r8g8, was a blow from which Mr. Harris did not recover.. As a mark of his love and esteem, he did not appear in court for a year, and that one year was the only one in 55, since his admittance t<> the bar, that he did not appear in active advocacy. Hamilton Harris was born at Preble, Cort- land county, N.Y., May I, 1820. His father was one of tl1e _pioneet·s of Cortland county. He graduated from Union in r84r. In the autumn of r84-5 l1e was admitted to the bar, and from that time down to tl1at of his death, his name appeared C()nstantly on the reports of the highest court in the State. He came to Albany in 1845 and ope11ecl offices. Soon he becan1e a most successrul ~nd accomplished advocate. He possessed a. J'etnarkable self-cotnmand in speaking, masterly in his eloquence, ready in his retorts, stron~ in his language and incisive in his logic. In 1848 he forrned a law partnership with !looper C. Van Y orst, '39· This co11tinued until 1853, whe11 Mr. Van Vorst retno\·ed to the metropolis. He was next associated with l t I I I ij 1 I J l 1 I ' i 1 'I l j j l f 'i ' 'I l ' •• \ ' I l

l t I I I \ ij ' I l THE 'CONCORDIENSIS. 15 Samuel G. Courtney, who was for several years United States district attorney for the southern district of New York. In 1857 he formed a partnership w,ith Clark B. Cochrane, '41, and John H. Reynolds, '43· Ten years lat!!r Mr. Cochrane died, but Messrs. Harris and Reynolds continued their association for eight years tnore, when Mr. Reynolds was called to his reward. After Mr. Reynolds' death Mr. Harris continued practice with his son, Frederic, '75, and with William P. Rudd, '73, now preside~t of the Albany County Bar association. This firm has for a number of years been e1nployed in the defense of most of the suits brought against railroad corporations in this country. In the fall of 1853, Mr. Harris was elected district attorney of Albany county, serving until January 1, 1857· In 1850 he \vas elected a member of the Assembly from Albany county. He became, on the fonuation of the Republican pat·ty, one of its strongest champions. As a tnember of the Republican State cotnmittee fron1 1864 to r 87o, he displayed fine executive abilities in tl1e management of political affairs. He was elected president of a nevv board of Capitol com- missioners in 1865, serving until 1875· Tl1e same year he was elected to the State Senate. In 1877 he was re-elected and won very high senatorial honors. His championship in the Senate of popular and higher education was greatly appreciated by the friends of education throughout the State, and in r885 he was chosen a regent of the university of the State of New York. He retired frotn politics several years ago, and devoted himself wholly to the practice of law .-Albany Argus. '46.-Samuel Burrell Hard, who died on Dec. 15, at his home, at Englewood, N. J., was born in 1828 at Albion, N. Y. He was gradu- ated at Union when but little more than seven- teen years of age. He taught Greek and read law with his father, and on reaching his majority settled in Buffalo, where he was admitted to practice .and where such men as Millard Fill- more, Solomon Haven and Aaron H. Patchin interested thetnselves in bis career. In 1863 Mr. Hard went to New York and in 1864 he organized the Open Board of Brokers, :and also the Mining Board. He was the first president of both organizations. He also framed the con- stitution of the Consolidated Exchange. Recently F. M. Gilbert of Yale, who is interested in the Student Volunteer movement, visited theY. M. C. A. A ,missionary library. is to be started and a missionary fund collected. Messrs. Bolles and Covvell have charge of the matter. The former will see the alumni and the latter the undergraduates. IT VATS ST\IDENTS Of \\INION\ TO TRill)~ WITH QS. A special discount of 10% on TOOTH, BRUSHES, HAIR BRUSHES and PERFUMES to all \Union\ men. H~~.STMIINN'S PHIIRMJICI, W. N. Bailey, Mgr. Opp. Post Office. CASH 0~ CREDIT. S. R. JAMES, ~02-204 STA..TE ST. CROCKERY, GLASSW.ARE, FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS, HOUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-BRAC, ETc. Sporting Goods ! Base Ball Supplies, Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photograph~rs' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. --AT·-- J. A. RICKA.R.D & CO.'S., 253 STATE STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTS ......... - -- PlaKFO:RD BRO~., '' Union Market.'' . Dealers in All Fresh Meats and Poultry. Game ·in Season. Telephone 38-F. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT ST. ~ PE.ATT TEACHERS' AGENCY.· Recommends colleO'e and normal graduates, specialists, and other teachers to colleg.es, public and private schools and ~amilies. Advises parents about schools. WM. 0. PRATT, Manager. 7o Fifth Ave., New York. l CLASS PIPES Original Designs In tlL.eGuaranteed 'J.M .. PIPES Our Book ()R Pipes for the asking. -a- e) PiN ~ 1r.>:1~ ~IS. rrer~:, Importer and Manufacturer. 217 Walnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA •. CHAS. BURROWS, Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, , Rubber Stamps, Picture Framing, Printing, etc. 410-414 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SWENY SPORTINC Cooos Co. 72 State St., ALBANY, N.Y. CoMPLETE LINE. BEST QUALITY .. 73 STATE STREET. ALBANY, N. Y. GYKN.ASIUM SUITS. ATHLETIC GOODS. Buy your Camera Supplies of Finch & Hahn, 304 State Street. LA.RGEST STOCK. LOWEST PRICES, /JON BRAND TMOEMARK ATHLETIC ROBES LOUNGING ROBES BATH ROBES FOR SALE IN SCHENECTADY BV Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- Wood Brothe.rs. 'I .I t

'I .I t ----------·ADVERTISEMENTS.------ 17 SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS. AN EASY WAY TO EARN $25.00 We will pay this to anyone sending us 20 new yearly sub- scriptions. a c com· pan led by the 'full yearly price \for each subscription. •• •• •• Send two cent stamp 'for prospectus. sam- ple copies and par· tic:ulars •• •• •• •• •• Outing Publishing Co. 239 Fifth Ave., N. Y. THE I~ARGEST AND HANDSOMEST JEWELRY STORE IN THE STATE. SIM, PEIRSON & CO., .. BROADWAY & SECOND ST., TROY. N. v. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. ~· LOCOMOTIVES· - - § - - - - - = = - = - - -· - of Standard Designs for all classes of service, or from designs furnished by railroad companies. Annual Capacity, 450. W. & L. E. GURLEY, (~··~1~-·~ 514 Fulton St., TQOY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers i~ll America . . • . ... of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruneents ana Materials. Union «ollsge Book ~tore. ·~· All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note Books, Fine Stationery, etc. A limited number of the SoNGS OF ''OLD UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE.

1S --A-DVERTISEMENTS.----- l::::::::;:=======~=====l !Sales offices in all the large cities •••• of the United States. Electric Lighti1zg Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Powe1·. . (.)\ .... ,., •.• ~ .$ • General Electric Co. SOHENEOT ADY, N.Y. =================·------ Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always.given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W RIC HT' Manufacturers of High-Grade Frater- nity Emblems, li,ra.ternity Jewelry, Fraternity Novelties~ Fraternity Pro- K . & C 0 grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- A Y • · nity Annonncements, Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Priee-list. Special designs on application. 140-142 Woodtt~ard Ave., DETROIT, MICH. CHAS. KIEFFER, Prop. 2'58 STATE STREET; 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N. Y. The Finest Table Board In Tbe City. Open from 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY HOlJSE, Rest Billiard and PooZ ParZo'l\ll i-n the City. Sates $~.50 Per :X.::a.~ ancS. \C'p. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock. of Monarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. High Grade Merchant Tailor- ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealer. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. ·cRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 16S Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class meals. 2t Tickets, $3.00. 1.44 South. Oent:re St. U I Cl h. c H 1 ' BON BONS n1on ot_ 1ng ·. 0. uy .. er s .. -.A.ND ••• . CHOCOLATES. ALBANY, N. Y. F~LL STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the World. r\IRMISHlMQS, HATS, l:.Tt. Ten per cent red11ction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drugs. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. ScHENECTADY, N. Y.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTS. ••••• Sa~es offices in all the large eities of the United States. ' .... ~ ~, Electric I.igh t i nJ: Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Tratzsnzission oJ Power. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY~ N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. WRICHT, KAY & Co. ~Ianufacturers of High-Grade I~~rater­ nity Emblems, Fraternity Jewelry, Fraternity Novelties, ~~raternity Pro- grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- nit~· AnnouncemeutR, 'Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs ou applieation. 140-142 Woodward At.te., DETROIT, ltiiC 11. Union Clothing Co. ALBANY, N. Y. F~LL STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.'' Best in the \Vorld. f'\IRNISHIHQS, HAT.S, ETC.. Teu per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION. CHAS, KIEI!'FER, Prop. 258 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N.Y. The Finest Table Board In The City. Open from 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LA!S'E. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY lc.fOlJSE, Rest BUliur-d and Pool Parlo1•s in the OUy. :ea.tes $2.5 0 Per :Ce.y a.nd \'\p~a.:rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. T~O Y, N. Y. Complete Stock of Monarch and High Priced Gents, Shoes. li igh Grade Merchant Tailor- ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealer. ]. A. CRA::\IER. \V, KLINGLER. CRAl\tf EI~ & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Cliuton Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ST.A.E BEST ..A.. 't.:T~..A.~T., STUDENTS' DINING ROOM .. First Class nleals. 21 Tickets, $3.00. :1.:4:4:: South. Centre St. ~~--==--==~--=---c=--=--------=-- .-::.:: ~=~-=-=-=--~ c_:=:-=:.;__-- --~- =====-- BON BONS Huyler's • •• AND ... CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Dru~s. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ,- ··, ·. '

; ·:.; ... ,- ··, -. ' ._, ·,.,_, .,.._,.....,......,...........- ADVERTISEMENTS.------------ Chas. ·Holtz;mann Carr·ies tke Larg-est and Best Line of Clothing and Furnishing Goods · IN THIS CITY. Stt:tdents are entitled to a ten per cent. discount. S. E. Miller, MEN'S FURNISHING G·O·OD.8, SOLE AGENT FOR THE REGAL SHOE. 259 State St. SOIIEN~·CTADY, N. _Y. 34-36 MAIDEN L:ANE. ALBANY .. N. Y. --~~----~EUROPEAN----------- llllOT~lb A ~ A ~~~T dll~fi~J~lT 9 Broad way and Maiden Lane, ALBA. NY, N. Y. QENTLEMEN ONLY. 250 ROOMS. LADIES' RESTAURANT ATTACHED. WILLIAM H. KEELER, PROP. ANNE:X-507 & 509 BROAD\VAY. rf!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ··· ~ DOBERMANN'S ~ ~ ICE CREAM AND ICES ~ ~ Are Abs()lutely Pure. % , ~ 238 State St. ~SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ~ ~~-~~~~~a.ee,@~~~~.J PETER TIERNEY~ -AGENT FOR- gardner, ltonc ~ lo. laundry, 307 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. F-RIEDMAN BROS., Wholesale Dealers in SOUTHE~N PRODUCE, BUTTER,GHEESE, EGGS~ FRESH FISH,_ OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. Potatoes a Specialty. 102 So. Centre St. SCHENECTADY; N.Y. Telephone 4:5. CLARK WITBECK Skate·s, Hard ware, Bicycles. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FINE C;OLORED SHIRr-rs FOR MEN ...... Beautifully made shirts, fine as cust01n made goods, all the finest materials and choicest pat- terns, skillfully c:ut for perfect fitting. \Ve make a specialty of o11ly the best goods in our Men's Furnishing Goods Department. Fuli lines of the latest requisites for men's use. Exclusive styles and lowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO. Boots a1~d Sl~oes ReJJai'red. Y.le respectfully request the patronage of the Rtudeut~. First-class workman~hip. l\foder- ate prices. 422 Union St., B MARK Schenectady, N. Y. · • • * * * letterer and lcotaurat~ur. ~!!------UTICA, N.Y. LEE W. CASE. J!iSTABLISHED 184.0 F. W. McCLELLAN .. LE'V\\J: O.A.SE & 00 . ., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steam Heating, Plumbing, Metal Work. . WARREN STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. •

·'. ' I ' ~ '1 i' ' 1. I I. '· . \:~·-. -···~ ... ~-;:'< ........ v; . ' '· Our clothing with the kind sold in ordinar·y stores. ROGERS, PEET & ·Co.'s overcoats and suits,. rank with the finest Inade- to-measut~e garments. We have the exclusive sale of this clothing. .. BABBITT tc CO., CLOTHIERS-HATT'ERS-FURNISHERS • .. 23··29 S. Pearl St. (DeGraaf Bldg.) A.LBA'NY, N. Y. DON'T CHARGE FANCY PRICES. ~lAKE ONLY. TO ORDER. ONLY MAKE UP FINE S.TUFF. LEO OPPENH.EIM, THE TAILOR. . . . . . . . . . . Exte.nsi¥H Ladies D~pt. . . . . . . • . 79 and SO So. Pearl St. ..A.L:S.A.l:'l\-y- ~- '\Y. WOOD BROS., \ Mens' Outfitters.\ Latest styles of Fall and Winter Hats and Caps. , .. 265 ... Dress Shirts. Immense line of Underwear and Neckwear. Perrins Bros. Kid Gloves. STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. ' ' ,~ ' ' ·., ' ' / . ' ·~. '~ I • : -·:.'~. - .. . . l:) .· . • ·\ j . ' ,. --~ ·'\\ .. . ~. i ' . . ' ' i I • . \

' ' ,~ ' . . ,_ .. . ... -. I ' - \ . - ' ... ·..:.._ \, - 'l/ I ; I T ···,h .. ' ; . . : ~~,.. . .-a~.: . . ' ... ,, e .. oncordiensis. VoL. ·xxtv. PUBLISHED WEEKLY,BY THE STUDENTS o:F UNION COLL·ECE~ ,, SCHENECTADY,' N. Y. JANUARY 17, 1901. No. t.3.

,, fr i: ~ a. ~: t ., ''t ' 1.' .. l· .f. j,; .. i.: ' l \.· ,, i\ ~! . I f \ i• ,, i I· :: 'l •I :~ ' /> l ! i ... i• ,I I I~ . l ,I ~~ ,, F· I; ' '( .\; I• ! \ I ;\ '· •' ;~ i. !,. i j ! J; l ~ i. ' ' ;t' j ' :• I . ~ ' . ' . It< ~ U . u: . 't UIOQ .. ·•QIVBfSl .. y. A·JDREW Y.. V. RAYMOND, D:. D., LL.D.,. President. UNION COLLEGE, SCHElVECTADY, N. Y. 1. Course Leading \to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, includii·ng French and German. .After Sopho- more year th.e work is la:rgely elective. 2. Course Leading to tb.e Degree of B. S.-The modern languages m~e substituted for the ancient. and the amount of Mathematics and English studies is inureased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of P·h, ~ • ....-This.,diffe~s from the A. E. course chiefly in the omission of Greek ana the substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to tlle Degree of B. E.- This course is intended i<> .give the basis of 2.n engineering edu- cation, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession. a knowledge of both French and . German, and a fuli com·se in English. 5. Sanita.ry Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Sani- tary Engineering for some or the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Deg1·ee of B. E.- This differs from course 4 in substitutinf;!: special wo.rk in Elec- . tricity and its applications, in place of some of the ·G~neral Engineering- studies. 'n1is course is offered in co-operation with the Edison Genera:l Electric Con pany. 7. Gradu:ate Cou1·se in. Engineering Leadin,g to th.c Degree of c. E.-A C()Urse of one year offered to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6. There are also specLal cou1'S'eS in Analy:tial Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN IL RIPTON, Dean of the College. Schenectady, N.Y. DEPART1l1ENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Kedical College.-Term commences last Tuesday in September. Four yea..rs strictly graded course. Instructions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and opeTations. Clinjcal advantages excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $300; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, Each $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany La.w School.-This department of the university is located at Albany. near- the State Capitol. It occupies a build- ing wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters • Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $10; tui:tiou fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in .Albany Medical College. Annual lecture erm commences Mond.ay, Oct. 1. For catalogue and infor!lla- tien address T.liEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G .• Secretary, AL::BANY, ·N. Y. ''. '\' ',• ,'·.' ,' < ', .\ • : ;: ! - ,• , .. Wh:en You Buy Furniture . . ~ .. .. ·r~ .\ · , .1 , Look :elsewhere-~1ook here.· . Comparison is our\· delight, and the more yon know about furniture the surer we are of makittg a sale. Furniture for every use prp.ctical, dura- ble and ·surprisingly low priced. .A. B:ROWN & SON, a·o2 State St •. The Most Reliable •>+<• PhTT·ON & HPt.LL, 245 STATE ST., SOHE_NEOTA-DY, N. Y. .. ·'·'l FOR HATS, CAPS, FURS, TRUNKS, SUIT CASES, :BAGS, CANES UMBRELLAS, MACK- INTOSH:ES, &c., Go TO L. T.Clute, Dunlap and Stetson Hats and Dent's Gloves. 227 STATE ST. Mercb.aDt. ~ailor. . ; . . ·: - -··. ... ' 237 State St. SCH EftECT ADY, N. Y. _::. l· . . -:': /•

.. ' ' ' l /• ------ADVR·RTISEMENTS.-- 3 IttercoUegiate· Caps and Gowns, COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on applicati()n. WI1Y ROT DRE55 WELL ? Suits and Overcoats C. G. CRAFT & CO., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Botham · Carts. TOU CAli [)Q IT E.JI51L T. SANDWICHES, all kinds . Custom or Ready-Made. TOUR CREDIT 15 QOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BABHYTE & DEVENPECR, ... Wholesale and Retail ... Coal and Wood. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE CoR. JAY. · . I I . I JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WHOLES~ CROCERS, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, 305, 308 and 310 Union. 218 _ 222 State St. Feed, Grain, 13aled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. Tobacco, GTain and PTovisions. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tail()r-made Suit~ and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivel'ed. The 1'en Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. GO TO ,., THE OYEI\ RESTAURANT, POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. BEST 25c DINNER IN THE CITY. OP EX DAY AND .N'IGHT. Ladies' a-nd Oents' Resta-urant. 443 S'I'ATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 5Ctl:f.RMERnORH & CO., GENERAL I:NSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State &: Centre Streets. ScHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, American and European Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCKW\ELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. \TO 4 P. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

--ADVERTISEMENTS.-· -- 3 Intercollegiate Caps and Go~ns, COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. WHT NOT DRES~ WEL'L? Suits and Overcoats T:OU C~H DO IT E.aSIL T. Cus,tom or Ready-Made. TOU~ CRE[)IT I~ QOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG, Mgr. 417 STATE ST. BARHYTE & DEVENPEOK, ... Wholesale and Retail .•• Coal and W'ood. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made Suits and .Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'' RESTAURANT, BEST 215o DINNER IN THE OITY. OPEN DAY AND NIGHT. :Ladies' a'ntl Gents' .Bestau'rant. 443 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y • SCnt:.RMERMORtf & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, C. G. CRAFT & CO., COR. :MAIDEN LANE AND J;AMltS ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and.RRADY MAIJE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Both am- Carts. SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed •COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E 111 ROGER. s STATE CoR. JAY. 1 IJJ. · · · ·. ·• ·•. 1 JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WHOLESALE CROCERS, Tobaeco, Grain, a~ul PTo1Jisions. The Ten Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and European Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCKW'ELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY, OFFICE HOURS : 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

4 ----ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Hotel Veod.om,e •· Just a word Refitted and Refurnished. Utzder New Manageme1tt. to the $5.00 Shoe wearers \THE RALSTON HEALTH . SHOES AT $4.00\ were made to satisfy R t $2 d $2 50 D you, with water-proof a es . , an : I . per a Y• . SOleS and in all kindS Of leathers, H. A. PECK, PROPR., SCHENECTADY, N .. Y. To The Bog a of 1901·2·3 and 41 ... CALL ON ... JIJ.v.C G AF.FEES •• FOR YOUR •• C~nf~~ti~n~ry, T~a~~co ~ni Cige:s. · 511 Union Street. • • • <9HE • • • Bdlison -s- Ho'tel, 8GtiENEGT'ADY, N.Y. The Largest atzd Best Appointed Hotel in the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. SNJIPPY BP-TO-B]lTE FE>OTWE}l.ft --'----AT----- JOHN E. KOCH'S, 257 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES, BEST ON EARTH $3.00 and $j.Jo. JOHN W. EMERY, POPULAR PRICED SHOES. 321 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 131. ~. W~ST~li\.L~, ttEWSJ)E~LER ~ ST JITIOtfER. Magazine and Periodical Department . IMPO:RTED AND DOMESTIC CIGA:RS. TOBACCO OF ALL KINDS . . 403 UNION STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. T liTES' BOAT HOUSE. The Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri\vate Parties only, in con- nection with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTAN ltESTIIQRANT IINb L\INtH ROOM. 338 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. :Meal Tickets Sold. 13est Inducements to Students. Open from 5:30 A. M. to 1:00 A. M. WOHLBERG & ZEISLER, Props .. VAN CURLER 0 ~cf~sE. C. H. Benedict, Manager. Telephone 335. Friday, Jao. 18.-\Arizona.\ ALL NEXT 'WEEK SPOONER COMEDY CO., at Popular Prices. ..

.. The Concordie11sis VoL.· XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY lT, 1901. No. 13. THE NO~THEASTERN NEW YOQK BANQUET. Closer Union of the Departments Exem- plified in the Speeches and in a New Name for the Association. ''Uaion in spirit, as well as in name\-was · the idea that permeated the last annual banquet of the Union College and the first annual ban- quet of the Union University Alumni Associa .. tion of Northeastern New York at the Hotel TenEyck last Friday evening. Each speaker took pains to emphasize the true tneaning of Union University and to urge upon all alumni the real need of appreciating that idea. At the business tneeting, practical force was given to evet·yone's feeling by adopting the resolution which follows : ''Resolved, That articles r and 3 of the con· stitution of the Union College Alumni Associa· tion of Northeastern New York be and the same are hereby amended to read as follows : \Article I.-Name.- The name of this asso· ciation shall be The Union University Alumni Association of Northeastern New York. ''Article III.-Membership.-Any person who is, or has at any time been, a president or member of the board of trustees, or of the board of governors, or tnember of the faculty of Union university or any department thereof; any per- son who has received, or been entitled to receive, the diploma of Union university or any depart- ment thereof; any person who shall have been a student at any department of the university in any course for the period of at least one collegiate or university year, and shall have left in good standing ; resident in the territory above na·med shall be eligible to become a resident member of this association. Any person simi· larly qualified, resident without the territory above named, shall be eligible to become a non- resident member of this association.\ The din:ner was given in the beautiful banquet rootn to about one hundred and twenty-five alumni ofthe university. Along the east side of the roon were small round tables seating eight, and from each of these, long tables extended across the room. The tables ,and hall were prettily decorated. Holding's orcl~estra playf?d during the courses. A pleasant feature was the presence of a nun1ber of ladies in the mezzanine gallery. During the dinner, college songs were sung by the quartet, which is conl- posed ,of the following students: G. LeRoy Shelly, Harry A. Barrett, Charles E. Heath, Earl B. Slack. The dinner cards were in the form of the college pennant, with a cover of heavy garnet\ paper and pencils for the sticks. Dr. Wells gave the prayer before the ban- queters were seated. The first toast was a standing one to the \Union of the Stars and Stripes.\ All stood and joined the orchestra and the quartet in the verse of \America.\ As the :first speaker of the evening, the toast· mastet·, President Edward P. White, '79, pre- sented President Raymond, who responded to the toa,st ''The Union of Faith and ·Finance.\ President Raymond began his address by speaking .of the prosperous appearance of the ah1mni present, and expressing the wish that they t'llight all live long to en joy the favor of the new century, .and that when they died the college might have abundant reason to cherish and perpetuate their memories. In speaking upon the special subject assigned to him, the pt·esident dwelt upon the relation of faith to the every·day transactions of corn- met·cial 1 ife, to the great works of construction, and especially to enterprises calling for tl1e investment of large capital. He showed how faith is the inspiration of all progress and the sure basis of a.ll prosperity. Then he made a direct applicRtion of his then1e to the interests of Union ,College, speaking first of the needs, especially the need of an electrical engineering

THE O:QNCORDIENSIS. ]a bora tory, to enabte the ;coUege to take advantage of the magnificent opportunity offered by th·e presence of the works of the General E:leetric company. He showed that Schenec- tady is the recognized centre of the electrical world today, and so the natural seat of a great ·electrical schooL He spol\e finally of the need of faith in the college itself as an educational institution if the confidence of others is to be won and the money secured that is needed for further developments. He invited investigation, and called attention to the curriculu1n, the faculty, and the tone and spirit of the college, as proving its right to increased respect and confidence. The subject of each toast was a ''Union\ of · some kind, and the speakers were purposely selected, so that every departrnent of the insti- tution was represented. Dr. Raymond was followed by General Amasa J . .Parker, presi- dent of the law department, who spoke of ''The Union of the Various Departtnents of the University.\ He began by giving a brief history of the establishn1ent of each department. He also referred to the necesssity of an electrical department, and said that the board of governors had discussed the matter and was ready to take practical steps as soon as it was found that the new department would be founded by the state or by private contribution and effort. He expressed confidence that the social union would be influential in working for the practical good of the university. The college was represented by Dr. James R. Truax, '76, who 1nade an eloquent address upon \The Union of Letters and Life.\ Dr. Truax spoke as follows: THE UNION OF LETTERS AND LIFE. I wonder somewl1at at the temerity of the man who has dared to join together two things which Providence has evidently sought to keep so far asunder as letters and life. Letters and labor, letters and loneliness, iet- ters and lamentations, I ean think of so many combinations of terms which seem to be fitter associates. Between the devotee in his secluded cell, under the silent stars, trimming the taper before· some chosen shrine, and the great turbulent torrent of revel and struggle known as life, what is there in common ? If by life be meant participation in practical affairs and the privilege of pocketing a proper proportion of the proceeds, then very few men of letters have ever entered into the realization of life. You may think of a Shakespeare, an Addison, a Scott or a Dickens perhaps, but for one such in so many generations you will find a score of others, like Dante, or Cervante~, or Johnson, or Keats, or J3urns,-heroic souls, lonely souls, martyred souls, en1erging into the sunshine of popular f~1vor, if emerging at all, late in life,-brought as :a Bonnivard out of the depths of a dungeon all marred by hard- ships to enjoy a few glimpses of the light before the darkness of the grave closed about thern forever. The works of such men are like ,manuscripts found in catacombs, btained with the tears and the blood of the slaughtered and wrapt with them in the cerements of the tomb. The thing that the world offered then1 in the name of life was wondrously like death or perhaps like punishment after death. And yet driven by some blind passion of the tnind they were forced against their fate and held there while the winds and the waves beat the1n to wreck. Because they were human and loved life they must have found it even in such forbidding circumstances, but in some sense different fro1n that in which the term has heretofore been used. For the man of letters life l1as other senses than that of bounding pulse or keen anilnal appetite. When he writes the grave monitions of the vanished world, or the bright presages of the dawning one, he knows that he enters into the world's truest, deepest, most abiding life. To touch the springs of cheerfulness-merely to make a smile ripple over the face of this great care-burdened giant of a world-is not that to minister to the world's life and to share it too ? In stirring the world to pity, is there no bene- faction; in rousing it to ten·or at the thought .of evil, is there no chastening, in making it dream a

'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 radiant vision, is :there no ministration of an impulse to progress ? It is not his fatne, it is his service to humanity, his undoubting assurance of that, which consti- tutes the true life of the man of letters. · essay and novel, and learned treatise, flowing . on unchanged, striking against the shores of the ·. present, mingling with the life of today modi- . fying that, and changing it to letters in due turn. Whatever changes rnay, in the course of time, pass over the character of education, this I'll Whatever may be the de¥elopment of the ; policy of the venerable college which '\lYe love, -and fidelity to her historic record requires that she should ever be in the van and never in the rear of progress-! for one am profoundly convinced that she ought never to ignore the intimate relation that subsists between the ideals of liberal letters and the future welfare of the young life which she is seeking to mould in those fateful four years just prior to manhood. · trust, may never befall-· I trust the time m.ay never come when men shall be regarded as creatures of the present merely, and so be cut offfrom all the fine impulses of the past, from all the bright dreams of the futut·e, which, springing out of the intensest life of a favored individual or a favored age, have become im- tnortal inspirations through the power of the preserving word. . That life is not sumtned up in a bank-acconnt. It is not cleverness and meanness, and oppres- sion like a dragon guarding a hoard of treasure. It is vvisdorn, it is courage, it is frankness, it is tendet·ness, it is all high aspiration. It is the courtesy of a Sidney, the lofty prudence of a Shakespeare, the gentleness of an Addison, the reverence and the resolution of a Johnson, the hurnanity of a Dickens, the lovableness of a Thackeray when he penned the character of a Henry Esmond, or a Colonel Newcotne. . Culture such as this is needed alike by law- yer, by physician, by pharmacist, by astronomer, by electrician. It is the pattern to be kept steadily i.n view during all the years in which they are applying the tools of their craft to the winning of a living, determining the spirit in whicb it is to be won, and the high uses to which their gains are to be devoted. Letters and life !-they are as like to each other as are the waters of the Missouri and of the Mississippi. Here the stream is the Missouri, a few miles further on it is the Mississippi. So the life of today becotnes the letters of tomorrow, and on the third day these are transformed into life, and on the fourth day the life is converted into letters again. As you look back over the course of the great current of life and behold it and the strange medley of things that are borne upon its surface, it seems to dash against rock barriers and to plunge suddenly out of sight into cavet·nous depths, but a little later all that was worthiest in it is seen re-appearing in biography, and l1istory, and epic and lyric, a,nd drama, and The training that is of obvious necessity and of imtnediate advantage will be eagerly sought for by all, but the culture which is of slow ma- turing, but which, like a central self, .manifests itself in the shaping of every thought, and itnagination, and word, and act of the ripe life, that will have to be stressed, or there is danger that inexperienced and enthusiastic youth and commercially inclined parentage may fail to recognize its ra1·e worth and so the man may be sacrificed to tl1e trade. I do not tnean to say that the boy edncated without rega.rd to this broader culture, will necessarily becorne a bad man, but I do say that his life will shrink to such narrowness of interest and aim, that his sympathies will be so limited, that his powers of enjoyment will be so '' cabined, ·cribbed, confined, shut in,\ as to tnake hitn seem a dwarfed and defonned being to one who is capable of cotnprehending the regal atnplitude of the possibilities of hutnan nature. Opportunities for usefulness will ray out frotn him in every direction but he will stand in the 1n idst of thetn as one dazed and powerless to realize thetn, as I have seen the European tourist stand, in the midst of sublime natural scenery, or in the presence of the most impressive memorial of magnificent human achievement, blind and dumb, with his mind wholly absot·bed in the contents of the latest business message from America, or rapt by the vision of the dazzling getns seen in the latest

8 THE CONOORDIENSIS. visit to the Jeweller, o-r the bewitching patterns seen in the latest visit to the dressmaker. He will go back, as a Caliban, to his mean tasks, will go back as \a galley slave at night scourged to his dungeon,\ while t11e whole world of Prospero else moves forward to a larger, freer, happier life. That figure of .Shakespeare's great magician furnishes to my mind: .a type of the tJ;ue spb:ere of the highly educated man-emerging from the obscurity of long co·ntinued and severe studies, with the secrets of tl~e books finnly possessed and tran&muted into h·igh qualities of brain and character, deeply touched by the senseofhtunan infirmities, keenly alive to the varied interests of life, bringing o1·de1· out of chaos, and good out of evil, mastering an intricate problem and in the mastery revealing the grace of a serene magnanimity. Sud~ a man, a true leader, a dynamic soul, broad-visioned, large-hearted, in electric communion. with a host of inferior minds, comprehendi11g them, sharing their joys and their sorrows, and communicating to them impulses finer, nobler, steadier, than their own, by which all, as with one step and with a com- mon joy, move forw~rd to a great destiny-that . is my type of a hig;hly educated man. When you meet with such .an one, you will not stop to ask \How rapidly is he accun1ulatingwealth?\ you will not ask\ How early did he 1·each his chosen profession ? '~ you will ratl1er exclaim in reverent wonder \How surely is he approach- ing the n1ark of the prize of the l1igh calling of a noble and an influental manhood-one to which wealth and p~wer can be safely entrusted with the assurance that they will be used neither to his own harm, nor to the injury of his fellows ! \ When you look t1?0n such a man you will not need an after-dinner speaker to exhibit to you the union between letters and life, you will behold them fused in his character, and reflected in the lives of all who are privileged to stand within the charmed eircle of his benign influ- ence. Hon. James W. Eaton, of the Law school faculty spoke on ''The Union of Law and Poli- tics.\ \The Union of Medicine and Music\ was the theme assigned Dr. Arthur G. Root, of the Medical College faculty. The otber speak- ers and toasts in their order were : '\The Union of Earth and Sky,\ Chas. L. Pruyn, of Albany ; '''The Union of the Phanna- cist and Physician,\ Alfred B. Huested, M.D., Ph. G., president of the School of Pharmacy; '~The Union of Ath!letics and Achievement,\ Wn1c. G. Brown, '95, ofNew York, who cap- tained the footbaU eleven in his senior year ; ''Union with the Eternal Feminine,\ the Rev. Sheldon M. Griswold, '82, of Hudson. The election of officets for the following year resulted as follows: President, Judge Grenville M. Ingalsbee, '68, Sandy Hill ; vice-president, Frank But·ton, '83, Gloversville ; secretary and treasurer, James N. Vander Veer, '99, Albany, ( Te-elected). The executive committee will be appointed in the near future by the new presi- nent. FIRST J~JNIOQ HOP. To be Held Frida.y Evening at the Boat House. The first junior hop will be given at the boat house totnorrow evening. The n1embers of the committee have met with considerable success thus far in its canvass fo1· men who will attend. The committee gives the assurance that the dance will be fully up to the standard. Gioscia has been engaged to supply the tnusic. The catering will be excellent. Invitations have been extended to the patrons of the General . Electric dances to return the compliment extended by them to th.e students. The price of the hop is $r .5o. On the present roll of the Carlisle Indian School, there are 1, 218 students, representing 76 tribes in all. Syracuse University has offered six free scholarships to any Filipinos who may desire to pursue a course of study at that institution.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 9 MEDICAL MAN IN THE PHILIPPINES. A Letter from Dr. J. A. O'Neill on Life at the Front. Dr. Joseph Alan O'Neill, Medical '97, now an army surgeon in the Philippines, writes a very interesting letter to William G. Brown, '95, which the latter l1as kindly handed to the Concordiensis. Dr. O'Neill, it will be remem- bered, was forn1erly leader of the glee club and is the composer of the new \Hika\ song. The letter follows : DAo, PANAY, P. I., Oct. zo, 1900. ''My Dear Brown:- ''You need not blush for your ignorance of · Philippine geography if the above named 'Pueblo' is not to you a definite locality. It took me from the 8th o£ August until the 8th of . October to find it but having found it I'm afraid ' I'll have to keep it for some time. It is a little town, with an 'estirnated' population of six thousand, located twenty miles from the north coast of the island of- Panay. It is garrisoned by K Co. of the r8th Infantry, under cotnmand of Lieut. Pasco. He is a son of Senator Pasco, of Florida, but unlike n1any of the 'sons of , sotnebodys' I find him a very congenial com- panion. He and I are the only officers in the command. We live together in the best house in town, but though that sounds well the house is really not fit for human to live in. \The troops are quat·tered in the convent- you know there is a convent, chutch and cala- bozo (jail) in every Philippine town. The Padre here is a native. And, by the way, the sentiment in the 'states' in favor of native priests as opposed, to the Friars is all wrong. Tbe Friars are educated Spaniards, superior in every human attribute to the native priests. The hostile feeling of the Americans toward the Friars is the aftermath of the late Spanish- Atnerican war. They were then our open, avowed enetnies ; the natives wete our allies. But now the conditions are revetsed; the Friars, just like other Spanish residents, have accepted American sovereignty and are lending their best efforts toward restoring peace. '!'he Philippine priests on the other hand are insurrectos to a man. Several of them have been found in the field armed, their cassocks covered by the in- surgent unifonn. In many 'peaceful' towns they are the collectors of 'contributions of war' for the enemy. Their celebration of the mass divides worship between Aguinaldo and God. At the consecration, the most solemn part of the mass, the band always crashes out the 'Hymn to Aguinaldo'. Even at ,, low mass' which is a service without music, the band is there to play at the appropriate titne the hymn to their chief. The reason why they favored the Americans during the Spanish war is that they expected that all the church property owned by the Friars would be turned over to them, and when now they find that the United States respects the title held by a religious body just as much as the title to property held by an individual citizen, they are naturally tnuch disappointed. It is strange that people at hotne will deny the competence of these negroes to govern them- selves and yet urge that the church be turned over to them. Would you favor turning the United States Supreme Court over to a lot of Southern negroes ? And yet the Southern darkey is a vastly superior being to these half- baked malays. \Well to get back to Dao : I found a big house here that they called the hospital. I have looked up the history of the house-within ten years three people have died of small-pox in it, and two of consutnption. A Philippino family occupies the rear rooms, two of the tnembers of the family h:ave dhobie itch ; they keep three pigs in the kitchen 'to keep it clean.' The house is twenty years old and has never been cleaned nor painted. That's what my hospital was two weeks ago. It's different now. I took all the native prisoners frotn the 'calaboose' and starting at the roof I had every inch of the place scrubbed and white-washed. I threw out all pictures, draperies, and other dirt-eatchers, had the floors, which by the way are beautiful mahogany, scraped, waxed and polished- threw out the bamboo beds and got iron hospital beds, had the lawn mowed, sotne beautiful paltns set out and a bamboo walk built to the door. The equipment, when I got here, was

THE CONCO:RDlEINSIS. as bad as the house itself: There was not a tovvel, a sheet, a pillow case, a broom, a lamp, n()r a pitcher in the place. What seemed to me w<>rst of all, the poor soldiers had to lie sick fo1.· weeks in their own clothes~there was no b~th, .. so you can imagine the odor. I now have twenty suits of pajamas, four dozen towels, slteets, pillow cases, etc., and .most of the essen- tials of a small hospital. The soldiers like the change. \~] have not been under fire as yet but the in..surgents are getting very tro~1blesome and it is rutnored that an extensive catnpaign is about to be hegun. Small detachtnents of our company are sent out nearly every day chasing rumors of , insurgents. They get a few prisoners, guns and bolos but there is not much real fighting. But you can't go a mile out of town without being shot at from a rice field, or boloed on the highway by a gang of bolo men. The bolo is a cl.·&ss between the· machete and a meat-ax, it weighs about four pounds. To use it effectively they introduce it by a thrust just below your sbbt-bosom and with a deft, rapid upward tn<>ti{)n expose your indigestion to their admir- ing; accomplices * * * . \Sincerely your friend, \J. A. O'NEILL.\ A CALL FOQ PQOFESSOQ EATON. i<> Lecture at the Boston University Law Department. Hon. James W. Eaton of the Albany Law school, has been invited to deliver a course of lectures on '' The Law of Evidence,\ before the senior class of the law department of the Easton University, to continue from the present until June. Mr. Eaton will take the place of 1-I<>n. J abez Fox, a pro,minent Massachusetts lawyer., who has just been called to the Massa- cbusetts bench. Mr. Eaton will continue to hold llis position as instructor at the Albany L:avv school, and also to practice his profession in ..Albany, the work in Eoston keeping him al>sent only two days in each week. THE ALUMNI COLUMN. .Interesting News About Union Graduates. :tnvery alum11,us ,and undergraduate of Union is in- ,vit~d to .send to the Alumni Editor items of inter• esl_jor insertion in this depart1nent. News of a p~rsonal nature, about any alumnus, will be gladly rt!Jceived and prirded.] '46.-Rev. William Henry Kirk died Decem- ber 2 2, at the home of Herbert S. Parmelee,,N o. · .39·r: Williatn street, East Orange, N. J. He , wa~ born in Halifax, N. S ., in October, 18r 8, :and was graduated from Union in 1846, and from Princeton Theological Seminary in 1849· He filled pastorates in Salisbury, N. J.; Fish- kill,. N. Y. ; Philadelphia and Belvidere until r 866, when he retired, and had since lived in :tlle ~Oranges. His wife died a number of years :a.go. He leaves one daughter, ~fiss Anna P. Kirk. '47~- James Roosevelt, the head of one of New York's oldest families, died suddenly December 12 from heart deisease in his apart- ments, at the Hotel Renaissance, in New York city. Mr. Roosevelt had been in poor health for rnore than a year, but his death was unex- pected by his· family, as he had lately been ap:parently much stronger than for some time.. llis family was present when he died. .Mr. Roosevelt was a descendant of Isaac Ro<>sevelt, one of the first Senators from N evv Y ()rk. He was the son of Isaac Roosevelt and Nary Aspinwall Roosevelt, and was born at llyde Park on July 16, 1828. He was gradu- ated from Union in r847, and then went abroad :fox two years for study and travel. Returning, Xr. Roosevelt entered the Harvard University Lavv School, from which he was graduated at the end of the two years' course, and then entered the law office of Benjamin D. Silliman, itt New York. After being called to the bar Mr .. Roosevelt practised law for two years, but, preferring a more active life, he secured an el ~ction to the Board of Directors of the Con- soli dation Coal Company, of Maryland, and also became a director of the Cutnberland and P.ennsylvania Railroad Company. He was also :.,- .. :' .,. '.:)' ' ' ,,

\ ( THE '00NOORDIEN:SIS. 11 at one time president of the Scuthern Railway Security Company and president of the Louis- vine, New Albany and Chicago Railroad Company and a ~director in several Southern and Western railroad companies. At the time of his death Mr. Roosevelt was vice-president of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Con1panJ, president of the Champlain Transportation Com·pany, a trustee and one of the corporators of the City Trust Company, a trustee of the Fanners' Loan and Trust Company, an officer in a steel concern at West Superior, Wis., and chainnan of the Maritime ~Canal Co1npany of Nicaragua. Mf. Roosevelt generally lived at Hyde Park, and was devoted to country life. He was much interested in all the local affairs of his town, and gave much attention to the school and church. He was one of the founders and early presidents of the New York Hospital, and had been a member of the Board of State Chari ties and the State Charities Aid Association. He was a manager of the Hudson River State Hospital and a trustee and director in n1any charitable institutions in various parts of the State. Mr. Roosevelt was a Democrat, but he took no active part in political life, although he was repeatedly requested to accept the notnination for Congress, the State Senate and the Assetnbly. He was the alternate Commissioner frotn the State of New York to the ·World's Fair in Chicago. Mr. Roosevelt was twice married. He was a member of the Union, Delta Phi, University, Century, Metropolitan, Metropolitan of Wash- ington, Manhattan and Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht clubs, and a member of the Holland Society. .He leaves a widow and two sons.- The Tribune. '6o.-General James C .. Rogers of Sandy Hill, N. Y., was recently admitted on tnotion to practice law in the state of Illinois. '63.-Gen. Amasa J. Parker gave a toast on HThe Bench and the Bar of Old Albany\ at the Albany Society's seventh annual reunion, which was held at Delmonico's on Wednesday evening, January 9· THE BASKBTB·ALL FIVE. Small Amount of Money Needed With Which to Start the Season. The basketball five is gradually getting into shape for the season. Captain Thebo has had the candidates out for work and instruction during the past week. A number of men have teported thus far but it is desired tbat still tnore turn out. The leading candidates are : Thebo, rgoz; Cronkhite, 1904; Anderson,. 1902 ; Gould, 1903; Mal:lery, 1902; Oln1sted, 1904 ; Sherrill, 1904; Lawsing, I 904-; and Langlois, I 904. Captain Thebo has been acting as tnaflager thus far, but it is desired that a regular manager shall be elected at the next college meeting. Games are either scheduled or being arranged with Cornell, Colgate, Glens Falls Y. M. C. A., Satterlee Hose Con1pany of Fort Edward, Will iatns, Troy Y. M. C. A., Erie Athletic Club and University of Vern1ont. Considerable difficulty has been encountered in finding time to practice. The gyrnnasiutn is occupied most of the afternoon by the freshman cl~sses and the track team. The men have not been allowed to use the \gyn1\ in the evening. A little money is needed with which to buy suits and other necessaries. The team was self- supporting two years ago and will be this sea- son after the first few games are played. It is desired that a small tax be levied on the under- graduates to start the five successfully. About thirty dollars will be needed. SENIOQ OFFICEQS. The senior slate comtnittee reported at the class meeting held after the college meeting Monday morning. As a result of the report, the following officers, who were not elected at the beginning of the year~ were selected : Sec- retary~ treasurer for three yeats, H. J. Bro\\·n ; class orator, A. S. Golden; class poet, John McNab; ivy orator, P. L. Merriman; prophet, J. H. Cook ; grand marshall, C. P. Wagoner ; class toastmaster, Gardiner Kline; pipe orator, L. 'j. Weed; class his orian, Leopold Minkin.

12 THE, 'OONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSI'S .. P11!Jli&ll.ed Eve.ry W'uj IJuring- tlte Ct~llege YeRr, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGIE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, .. Editor-in.-Cbief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager JoRN McNAB, 1901, • - Literary Editor ARTHUR S. GOLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHA.RLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHURS. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. R. :R. CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HAWKES, 1902, A. H. HINMA..N, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, S. B. HOWE, JR., 1903, A. S. PECK, 1903, A.. G. PICKENS, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, R. C. DONNAN,. 1903. CoNCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS: $2.00 per Year, in .Advance lOCents Address all communications to THE CowCORDI· ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as. second- class matter. Ctas. Burrows, Printer, 414: State Street, Sohenecta.dy, N.Y. The meet with the Washington Continentals is only a month off. Candidates should re- port at the gymnasium every day at 4 p. m. THERE appears to be little reason why the gytn- nasium should be closed evenings to the basketball five. When it is considered that such a team may do very effective advertising for the college, the very small expenditure required for lights one hour three times a week would seem to be a profit- able investment. Between the physical culture classes and the track team, there is little chance for basketball week day afternoons. If the matter is put to the authorities in the proper light, no doubt the privilege will be rea.dily granted. Another matter. The five needs a small amount of money with which to start the season. A.fter the season is well started, the team will easily pay for itself. A small tax should be levied a.t the meeting next Monday morning. THE TWO college dances to be given this term a:fford the undergraduates excellent opportunities for cultivating the social side of college life. In the last few years, neither the junior hops or the sophomore soiree have been patronized by students as they .should have been. 1901 gave a hop, and was only prevented from losing money by the presence of a large number of General Electric men. If college dances are to be given, they should be supported by college men. The presence of outsiders is of course, very desirable, and. such men are always welcomed, but practical co-opera- tion given the committee by the attendance of the students is the real essential. Many cannot afford to attend; but those who can, and do not, certainly neg-lect an important feature of undergraduate lilc. Both dances should be liberally supported. IT MUST be very disheartening to the president to realize the fact that so little attention is given to his frequent requests for a larger attendance at the chapel lectures. Some time ago, the probable reason for this non-attendance were discussed iu this column. Since that time, the hour for hand- ing- in essays bas been changed from Friday after- noon to Saturday, yet interest in the lectures still remains dormant. At no time during the present collegiate year, have there been more than one hundred undergraduates present to listen to any one of the distinguished men who have honored the col- le~e by their presence~ Compulsory attendance in the recitation room works very well. Why not extend it to the lecture course? Simply because the institution is attempting to make men, and the president naturally feels delicate about such a procedure when the course is being carried on through the weight of his own personal infl.uence. Why not stand up shoulder to shoulder with him and show our appreciation of his efforts? If we do, it may happen that some practlcal benefit will result. / i I

TRE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 VESPEQ SER.VICE. Dr. Bleeker of 'Christ Church Ad- dresses the Students. He who is holy may be holy still.' You are not going to be helped by discipline, hut by the power which lies within you and compels you to do right.\ The Rev. Pierre McDonald Bleeker of Christ church, this city, addressed the students in the chapel Sunday- :afternoon. His retnarks were especially welil-.a.dapted to college students. \We don't need to argue from scripture about judgment that will come upon a man after death. Our lesson should go beyond that. Every man in tbis world has it within his own choice and will to do just as he pleases. Men may establisl1 tl~eir independence. There comes . to the college tnan the idea that he can do just as he pleases. If he wants to be an unjust rnan and secure college honors in the scaly way col- lege men often do, he may. If he wants to be polished on the outside, but bad at heart, he may. It is qui:te a possible thing for a man to go through c()Hege and be a good student-but bad inside. ,On the other hand he may have the power to \be the pious and holy man if he will. And h;n't this what we have been think- ing of througl1 the past Christmas season, the incarnation of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of the thil1gs you have got to battle against. When you d<> wrong the devil will come to you and tell you that you have fallen too low and there is no use in tnaking any effort to redeem yourself. Now suppose we should find on the street a degr~ded man and later should find him to be a fatheT or a brother. Our sympathies would be aroused immediately, but we must . think of our c:>wn welfare as well as that of our friends. No-w did it ever occur to you that · there is. no great difference between the low down man and the good man than between Jesus Christ and the best man that ever lived. ''One thin,g more. A man will break a law if be can get around it in any possible way. College men g-et the idea that when they cotne to college th.ey are going to be independent. They are not going to say their prayers because there is no one to '\Yatch them. Responsibility rests with tlte tnan. 'He who is just n1ay be just still. He who is filthy may be filthy still. CHAPEL LECTURES. 'Two Distinguished Men to Speak on the Next Two Fridays. President Raymond has secured the promise of the attendance of two noted men in the college lecture course. Dr. W. P. Martin, of the Imperial UniYersity of Pekin, will lecture in the chapel tomorrow afternoon on the subject of \Chinese Diplomacy.\ Dr. Marth1 has lived for fifty years in China, and . is therefore well qualified to speak on the subject he has chosen. The \Review of Reviews\ savs of hitn: \The ven.erahle Dr. W. A. P. Mar .. tin is the first of the eye-witnesses of last summer's drama in Peking to give to the world the complete story of tl1e siege. His book, 'The Siege in Peking' ( Re\ 7 ell), is not only a thrilling narrative of dramatic events, but is in itself remarkable as a work produced in great haste, under tnost un- toward circun1stances, by a man long past seventy. Dr. Martin's. life of half a century in China has given hitn a deanship among the foreign residents of Peking, and it is said that no other foreignet·, excepting Sir Robert Hart, has been so highly regarded by the Chinese themselves.\ Dr~ Albert Shaw, the well-known editor of the \Review of Reviews,\ will lecture on \College Men in Periodical Literature,\ Friday afternoon, January 2 5. Bot~1. le~tures are scheduled for 3 :30 p. n1., at whtch ttme all lectures will be held in the future. The treasurer of the Yale Athletic Association reports a net gain of $5000 for the year. TenEyck, the world's champion oarsman, has been engaged as head coach for the Ann- apolis crew. \

' 14: THE OONCQ:RDIENSIS. Park Place Fronta:ge Cut up into Forty- Four Btt.ilding :L!:>ts.--College Expects to N:et Fifty 1be>usand Dollars. The trustees have !decided to put on the n1arket that part of the college pasture fronting , on Park Place. The plan has been for some time under considet·ati()n, and the decision now made is a result of the settled policy of the · trustees to put the col:lege on a firmer :financial basis. The sentitnent heretofore prevailing against sel'ling property too near the catnpus has been overbalaHced by several considerations. The fact is well known. that Schenectady real estate, in the past few years, 11as greatly enhanced in value. Old Dorp has doubled her population in less than fifteen years and there . seems to be every indica.tion that the same thing · will happen during the next decade. As a result, there is a large demand for property and · it is selling at high r~tes. The college has · nevet· had a11y practieail use for the lower part : of the pasture and n<> possible disadvantage could come from the ere.ction of residences along Park Place. These considerations, combined . with the advisability (){ increasing the working capital of tl1e institutif>n, have influenced the board in its decision. The propet·ty has been divided into forty-four lots ranging in price from $6oo to $r5oo. Especial advantages a:re offered in the recent extension of tile stt·eet tiailway over Park Place to N<:>tt street and in the water and sewerage system which is already laid. It is expected that an asphalt pavement will soon be laid. The lots are to be sold for residential purposes only, and all assessn1e11ts are to be paid by the lot owners. From the Park Place chapel to the creek, the lots are tllitity feet wide. The first one sells at ~6oo, a.nd ~25 is added for each one until a pt·ice of $1000 Is reached at tl1e creek. The creek is to be vva.Jled in by the college. Five lots frotn here tt<J Central avenue with a larger width sell ft·orn '$I 200 to, $r45o. The college reserves the two lots at Central avenue. From Centrail avenue to Soutll avenue the size of lots vary from thirty-three ~nd one third to forty-five feet in width and the price, $r5oo, is uniform. From the chapel to South avenue, the depth varies from sixty to one hundred and sixty feet. Though the property was only put on the market the latter part of last week, about ten lots have been already sold. Though it has been rumored that Quackenbos street was to be extended through the pasture, no such intention exists. It is estin1ated that the entire transaction will net the college about $5o,ooo. The sale is being .conducted by George W. VanVranken, '85, the 1~eal estate dealer at 332 State Street. TQACK TEAM NOTES. But ten tncn have thus far presented then1- selves as candidates for the teatn which is to meet the 37th Separate Cotnpany at the arn1ory in February. Captain Weed reports that four times that number should cotne out at once. Training starts in the gymnasium every after- noon at four o'clock. Preliminaries for the meet will be held the week previous. The annual rnid-winter meet will be held some time in the latter part of Februat·y or the first part of March. CAMPUS NOTES. Dr. Raymond preached Sunday at the First Presbyterian church of Worcester, 1\1ass. Shelley, I 901, and Bahler, 1901, tried the exa-minations last week for a comn1issioner's third grade certificate. Dr. Wright has returned frotn Atlantic city, somewhat improved in health, but is not yet able to resume active work. George Hackett, 1901, has left college. The vacancy in the baseball tnanagership will be filled by the Athletic Board at a special meeting. Next season's football captain will be chosen at a meeting of the team on Friday. The picture will be taken at Talbot's in the after- noon.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 15 The proposed scheme for purity in Union College p{)li:tics, as set forth in our issue of Dece.m ber 5, will be brought up for consider- ation at the next college meeting. John E. Parker, 1901, is confined at St. Luke's hospital in New York city. The opera- tion for appendicitis was successful, and he will probably be on the hill again in two weeks. Messrs. :Clements, Wagoner and Merriman, the committee on the undergraduate university ; banquet, will meet representatives from the professional schools in Albany this evening. Messrs. Golden, Argersinger and Carver have been appo~inted a committee to frame suitable resolutions cotnmending the valuable service5 t·endered the college by the Alumni Coach co n1 mittee. The president delivers his annual address be :fore the Herkimer County Historical associa- tion at Herkimer this evening. Next Thursday he addresses the Historical and Art society of Albany ; and next Friday evening, reads a paper on Robert Burns before the Burns club of Albany. . The Adelphics debated Wednesday evening the subject for the Allison-Foote debate, \Resolve<l That the Latest Democratic Plat- form Truly Represents the Principles of J effer- son.ian Democracy.\ The affirmative was supported by Messrs. Clements, 1901 ; Pearce, 1903, and Parker, 1903. Bolles, 1903; Golden, 1901, and Kessler, 1903, argued the negative. IT P'ATS STQJ)ENTS OF '*\INION\ TO TRADE WITH QS. A special discount of 10% on TOOTH BRUSHES, HAIR BRUSHES and PERFUMES to all \Union\ men. ti~K5TM~Hft'5 PHARM~CT, W. N. Bailey, Mgr. . Opp. Post Oftlce. NE'V EDITION Webster's :~~~$\~~ :.wt-V!fr.S .. a,~ s,:,!,-!t\¥Y!.~>. Intern vtional n· t· ~J~~AA.!_Q,!!,§.!:Y NE.\V PLATES THROUGHOUT 25,000 Nevv Words Phrases and Definitions Preparmt under the <.lircct supervision of • \Y. rr. HARRIS, Ph.D., LL.D., United States · Commissioner of Edueation, assisted :by a large corps of competent specialists and editors. Rich Bindings. 5000 Illustrations. 2364 Pages. BETTER. THAN EVER. FOR STUDENTS• USE. \V e also publish W ehster's Collegiate Dictionary with Glossary of Scottish VI ords and Phrases. \First class in quality, second class in size.'' NICHOLAS MURRAy BUTLER. Specimen pages, etc~ of. both books e sent on apphcat10n. '· · G. iiJ c. MER.R.IAM co., I WEBSTER'S Pub lis hers lliTERNATIONAL ' DICTION.AR.Y Springfield, Mass. - CASH 0~ CREDIT . S. R. JAMES, 202-204 STATE ST. SO::a::E:t'TEOT.A..D-r, ~- :z- .. CROCKERY, GLASSWARE, FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS, HOUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-BRAC, ETc. Sporting Goods ! Base Ball Supplies, Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photographers' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. --AT'-- J. A.. RICKARD & CO.'S., 253 S'l'A'l'E STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

16 --ADVERTISEMENTS.---- Pl,KFORD BROS., '' Ullion Market.'~ . Dealers in All Fresh Jfeats 'llnd Poultry. Game z\n Season. Telephone 38-F. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT ST. ~PRATT TEACHERS' AGENCY Recommends college a.nd normal graduates, specialists, and other teachers to colleges, public and private schools and families. Advises parents about schools. W~I. 0. PR.A.TT, Manager. 7o Fifth Ave., New York. CLASS PIPES Original Designs In the Guaranteed Our Book on Pipes for the asking. ·J.M ... PIPES ~e) PIN Nilr.>r>~JS.TON, Importer and Manufacturer. 21'1 Walnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA. CHAS. BURROWS, Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Rubber Stamps, Picture Framing, Printing, etc. 410·414 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SWENY SPORTINC Cooos Co. 72 State St., ALBANY, N.Y. CoMPLETE LINE. BEST QUALITY. 73 STATE STREET. ALBANY, N. Y. GYMNASIUM SlJITS. ATHLETIC GOODS, Buy your Camera Supplies of Finch &: Hahn, 304 State Street. L.A.BGEST STOCK. LOWEST PRICES. 110N BRAND TMD.E MARK ---·--------~ -- --· --- -- .... ~-..,..-·---- I I i 'i ' . I i I . . ATHLETIC ROBES LOUNGING ROBES BATH ROBES FOR SALE IN SCHENECTADY BY Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- Wood Brothers. I' ' ~ ' ',l \ i ' ·!

\1. l 1 1 !f J ' l I' ' ~ ' '.l \ i ' ·! ........___---.ADVERTISEMENTS.--- 17 ·scHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS. AN EASY WAY TO EARN $25.00 I We will pay this to anyone sending us 20 new yearly sub- scriptions. accom- panied by the full yearly price for ea(:h subscription. •• •• •• Send two cent stamp for prospectus. sam· pte copies and par- tl~ulars •••••••••• t Outing Publishing Co. 2l9 Fifth Ave., N.Y. THE L.A.RGEST AND HANDSOMEST JEWELRY STORE IN THE STATE. Sl M, PEIRSON & CO., BROADWAY & SE:COND ST •• TROY IN. Y. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. § LOCOMOTIVES - - - - - - - - - - - = - - - - - - - - - - of Standard Designs for all classes of service, or from design~ .furnished by railroad companies. A.naual Capacity, 450. W. & L. E. GURLEY, @ •• ;~_<fJl~. ~~ 514 Fulton St., TROY, li. Y. Largest lannfactnrers ill America . . . . . . • of Engineers' a.nd Snrvey~Js, Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing lrzszruntents and Materials. Union ~ollege Book ~tore. All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note Books, Fine Stati<>nery, etc. A limited number <>f the SoNGS OF '' 0Ln UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE.

18 -....._._ADVERTISEMENTS.----- Electric Lighting Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Elecf1--ic Transmission of Power. Sales offices in all tlle large cities of the United States. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. co ETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. W R I C H T' Manufacturers of 1Iigh-Grade Frater- nity Embl&ms, .}'raternity Jewelry, Fraternity Novel ties, Fraternity Pro- K Y & Co grams, FraternityStationery, Frater- A • nity Annonncements, Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. 140-1.42 Jfoodwaf9tl A..11e., D.E7BO.IT, MICH. Union Clothing Co. AL,BANY, N. Y. f~LL 5TOCK tOM.VLI!TE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the World. fQRNIStllMQS. HAT.S. ETC.. Ten per cent reduction to S.tude.D.ts,- VISI~ r.ro UNIOM. CHAS. KIEFFER, Prop. 2'58 STATE :STBEET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N. Y. The Flnest Table Boa.rd In The: City. Open from 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. Union's Tailor. 35 MA.lDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. TROY HOOSE, Best Billia'J•d and Pool Pa-rlors in the (Jity. :e.a.tea $2.5 0 Per :Oe.:'S\\ anc!. \'tTJ?-v..r&.:rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation,. Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock of Monarch and High :Priced Gents' Shoes. High Grade Merchant Tailor- ing. Only fit•st-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealer. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 21 Tickets, $3.00. :1.44: South Oe:c.t:re St. BON BONS Huyler's ..,.A:ND,.. CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drue:s. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Sales offices in all the large cities •••• of tl1e United States . •••• ~~ ..... II Electric Lightittg Apparaftjs .. Electric General Railzvay Apparatuse Electric Electric Power Co. Apparatus. Electric Trans1nission of Power. •••• SCHENECTADY, N.Y. - Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W R ICHT' Matmfacturers of High-Grade Frater- nity Emblems, .Fraternity Jew-elry, Frw.ternity Novelties, Fraternity Pro- K Y & C 0 grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- A • nity Announcements, Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Specla.l designs on application. 140-142 W()odwa'l'tl Ave., DETROIT, MICH. Union Clothing Co. f\LBRNY, N.Y. FALL STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the World. PQRN ISHIMQS, HATS, ETC.. TEmper cent redaction to Students.- VISIT THill UNION. THE WORDEN KE5TAURAHT CHAS. KIEFFER, P:rop. ~58 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N.Y • The Fines,t Table Board In The City. Open from 6 A.. M. to 8 P. M. =====-==-==-- =------=---·-_- -----============= ~r: -;y;: ::ro:a:~-::rsoN ~ ~ Union's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. ----- -·~ ~--------·-·-------- --- TROY Jc;IOl.lSE, nest :IUUiat•d and Pool P<u·lors in the Cit·y. ~a. tes $ :a. 5 0 l?e:r :Oe. :.v and \'\pv.;a.:rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock of Uonarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. High Grade :Merchant Tailor- ing. Only first-class men em1)loyed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. MaC'kintoshes made to order. lteal Estate Dealer. J. A. CRA:VIER. '\V, KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS~ 163 Clinton Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ----- -------- - STUDENTS' DINING ROOl\1. First Class Meals. 21 Tickets, $3.00. 1.44: South Centre St. ===--=-=----------~-----=·=--_- __ ..:_-, BON BONS Huyler's ...AND ... CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drugs. AT LYON'S DRUG S'l 1 0RE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~ . ! j ~ ! 'I 'u :! :] ,. L . i ' ~ ''i l I I '• ,~'·t I'' ~ ~·~ ;\! . ,, rl .\-·, ·;;:. \:'¢

\ '- \ ', ' ,-,I . '· .. 1 ·. ~ ·• ·j . ·~ IN THIS CITY. Students are entitled to a ten per cent. discount. , 259 State .s.t. SCIIENEC'T'ADY., N .. Y. 34·-36 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY~ N.Y. Broadway and Maiden Lane, ' ALBANY, N.Y. <i~NT~.EMEN ONLY. 250 ROOt\~. . LADIES' RESTAURANT ATTACHEB. WILLIAM H .. KEELER, PROP. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROA..D\WAY. ~~~~~~~~ge~~~~SB~ ~ ·ooBERMANN'S ~ ~ ICE CREAM AND ICES ~ ~ Are Absolutely Pure. · ~ .238 Sta.te St. SCHENECTADY. N. \if. J ~~~~~~~.ae~~~O>@'G@J PETER TIERN BY, --AGENT FOR-- - fardner, ltone ~ go. Qa11ndrg, 307 STATE ST., SCHENECT.A.DY, N.Y. FRIEDMAN BRO:S., Wholesale Dealers in SOUTHE~N PRODUCE, BU1TER,GHE'ESE, EGGS, FRESH FISH, OYSTERS, ·CLAMS, ETC. Potatoes a Specialty. 102 So. Centre St. SCHENECTADY~ N.Y. I Telephone 4:5. 413 STATE STREET. FINE~ COLORED SHIR~r;S FOR MEN ...... \Beautifully made shirts, :fine as custotn made goods, aU the finest materials and choicest pat\ terns, skillfully cut for perfect fitting. '.tVe make a specialty of only the best goods in our Men, s Furnishing Goods Department. Full lines of the latest requisites for men's use. Exclusive styles and iowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO .. We Tespectfully request the patronage nf the students. First-class workmanship. Moder- ate prices. 422 ~~:n;~i.'.dy, N.Y. B. MARK, (\ ~{(h lW..N\.l) * * *' ~~ 0 0 ga;tercr ctnd IJel)tauratcur. ~!!.-------UTICA, N.Y. LEE \V. CA.SE. ESTABLISHED 184:0 F. W. McCLELL.A:N. :L:er~r:t: c.A..s::e &; co . ., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steam Hea..ting-, Plumbing, Metal Work. . WARREN STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.

Don't compare Our clothing with the kind sold in ordinary :stores. RoGERS, PE·E~Ji & Oo.;s overcoats and suits, rank with the finest.Inade- to-measu-re garments. We have tn~ exclusive sale of this clothing5 BAB'BlTT tc CO., ·CLOTHIERS-BATTERS-FURNISHERS •. \' 23-29 s. Pearl St. (DeGraaf Bldg.) ALBANY, N.Y. DON'T CHARGE F1NCY PRICES. MAKE ONLY TO ·ORDER.· . . . . . . . . Extr.usive ONLY MAK.E UP FINE STUFF. Ladies Dept. ! . . . . . . . LEO OPPE·NHEIM, THE TAILOR. 79 and 90 So. Pearl St. WOOD BROS., \ Mens' Outfitters.'' Latest styles of Fall and Winter Hats and Caps. Dress Shirts. Immense line of Underwear · and Neckwear. Perrins .Bros. Kid Gloves.· ... 265 ... STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. . . \ . . \. .· '.' . ·~ ~·

. '.,;_. . . . · .. ;· \ . . -~. )' ) ' . . \ ,:f~{~f. ' ~ : . -: . ·-~ -' .. · . ·~ ·~ \ .~ ~-,:\··\. ~.•;./ ., \~f~;~.:,J~r:rr:, ·: . · .~·1(· .. '··· . , .. ;.: ~~: .~: .' : :~ '.·. ' ' . . ~ rl?,:. , \'• ~ -..' / 1 +1vt\A·} ~ . ~ '~<~~:.~:~.~_',); . ~~::::.~: > :: · .. ?\~·- ,;.'(':~~ . . .. ' I I -· I ' f . \ The Concordiensis. VOL. XXIV. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY ·THE STUDENTS OF U:NION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY,~N. Y . JANU·ARY 24, 1 901. No. 14.

'•'\'. Union University. AIDREW 'l. Y. RAYMOND', D. D., LL. D., President. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-'The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. · 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B~ S.-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient, all(}, the ~m.oqn.t of Mathematics and English studies is inc:re~sed. .After tbe Sophomore year a large list of electives. is offered. , · '· 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B . ..::....Thls differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omissien of G:t·eek and the substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. 4. Gene1·al Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an engineering edu- cation, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of .the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in. English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree Qf B. E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Sani- tary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from course 4: in substituting special work in Elec- 'tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. '.rhi~ course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Con pany. 7. Gra{luate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates : \ of courses 4, 5 or 6. I There are also special · courses in Analytial Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information, address . BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEP AR TiV!ENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tuesday in September. Four years strictly graded course. Instructions by lectures, 1·ecitations, laboratory work, clinics and -practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.-'- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $300; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It· occupies a build- ing wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held itn: Albany Medie:al College. Annual looture erm commences; Monday,\ Oct .. 1. For•cata:logu:e-. and informa- tion add'lreS.S' ']]IEO:DORE. J'. BRADLEIY., Ph. G.,. Secretary,, ALB.AN¥, .. N. Y. When You Buy Furniture· Look elsewhere-look he:t·e. Comparison is our deUgb.t, and the more you know about furniture the surer we are of. making a sale. Furniture ,. for every u~e practical, qur~- b.le al1P ~~rprisingly ~ow price.P,. ~ A .. BROWN .& S'ON, 302 State st. The Most Reliable --••-=>~·+\\\<~·-- m PATTON-& HALL, 245 STA'rE ST., SOHE_NEOTADY, N. Y. · .. FOR HATS, CAPS, L T Cl t FURS, TRUNKS, SUIT . · .. ·n· e g~~~~ftf~: ifl'clf.c~ . • . 1 , ·. · ... • ..•. • .• . ' ' ' INTOSHES, &c., Go TO ...,.iiiiiiio _______ _ Dunlap and Stetson Hats 227 .STATE ST. and Dent's Gloves. Merchant Tailor. '· . 237 State St. SCHEN ECT !DY' N. Y. A ... ·-. '·· '. ~>.- •'' ., ,. : ~:· . ,.,·. :· .•. ·_,·.; .· . ' ., . -,.' ,,..•, :. i ' , .. ., 'I ., I •'I } 't I I \ I ''-.. I .I •. I, \!

'·. U ··. ···. . nioo Univorsity. AJ:DRBW Y. Y. RAYMOND, D .. D·i, LL. D., Presi'dent. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENE~CT llD Y, N. Y. ;t. Cou;rse Leading to .tbe. Degree of A.. lJ.,_'flle usual Classica-l Course, inclpding P'Eencb and: German.. .After Sopho .. mo:re year the work is l~rgely elective. · ~. Course Leadlng to the Degree of B\' s· . ......:'fbe modern . • l8inguages ·a-re substit.U:ted for th.e an<Hent, a.nd the llilli<>'Qut. of 'Mathematics and English stu4ies ia inerea~~d.. After t.be . ~ Sophomore year a large .li$t ot electives is offered. , · · 3. Cours~ i..e~ding te> the Degree of Ph, -:o .. .::..'Tb:ls diffeits. from th:e A,. B. c(nlrse eb,iefly in the olllission of Greek and. the s:u:b~:~Utution therefor ef additional wor}{. in mod~rn.lattgu8iges and science. . · -.~;. Gene1·al ()o1.J:rse Leading 1;o i;h.e Degre . ., Qf B.. ~ ........ This: course is intended to give the basis of en engin~er.iug ~du­ cation, including the f\lndam.en:tal princjple$. of 11H speci~l branches .Of the profes:sion, a knowledge of both ll'rench and German, and a full course in English • . 5. S:fllnitary C9tJ.r,se Leading to the I)egree Qf B., E.- This differs from· course. 4 in s11:bstjtutin.g speci~l 'WQ1'k in S~ni.­ tary Engi:neerin.gfor som.e of the General Eng~neetingstudjes. 6. 'fJie~tri,cal Course Leading to the. ne-gr~e o:f B. :F,!.--- .Thi$: differs from coJ,ttse4 in Sl.lbsUtuting specbl.l work in Elec- tricity and its appli.c~ttions, ht plaGe of some (}f the General :E~gineerin.J~·. stt .. Idies.. '£h_i.~ co~r.se. is offered _Jli. co:-operation w1:th the Ed1son General ElectriC Con pany. · . 7. Graduate .CQurse ill EJ:Igineering l,.ea;ding to the ! Deg:r.ee of c. E.~ A course of one year offered tQ graduates of courses 4, 5 or 5. . t . . There are ~lso specif,l.l courses in An.a1ytial Chemistry.; Metallurgy and, Natural History. For ca,taloguesoTfor ~pecial information, address , · BENJAMIN II. RIP.TON, Deanof the Colleg.e, S'ehenectady, N. y;-. lJEPARTJ1dENT OF MEDICINE~ Alb:any Medical College • .,.,...Term commence:;;' last Tuesday ih September. Four- years strictly graded. eou.rse. lnstructionE; • · by lectures, recitat~ot~:s, laboratory wm·~, cUn.ics a;pd practical : · demonstrations and operations. Oiinical advant,ages excellent • . :F;xpens~s • ...,..~fatriculation fee; $5; annu~lleeture. course, $100; perpetual ticket~ :$300 ;, graduation fee, $25; dlssecting fee, · $1.0 ;. laboJ;atory conrse, each. $10. For circular address WILLIS G. 'I'UC:KER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N. ·y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A-lbany I..a.w Scbool.~Tbis department of the university is \located at 1\lban,y, 11ear the State Capitol. It'Qcc.upies a :Puild.,. ing wholly devoted to its use~ T.be·cour$e leading to-the degree. of LL. B., js two years, each year ts divi<led into two sem.esters. · Expenses.--=Matricl!:lation fee, $10; tuition {ee, $100.. For catalogues or ot.her information, .address · ALllANY LA. W SCHOOL, NEWTON .FtEao, .Dean. ALBANY,. N. Y. .. '> ALlJANYCOLLEGE OF PHARMACY. '. m Whe F ··. ' Look Compa ·and th furnih makin for eve -.. b:te· a pri¢~tl A.-BR The '• .· e>···. ·e:·.·.~ -- -, :I\;,!}' . . ' ' ·._, '· . _' ~- PAT1 Sc .H. ' ' ,, \ ' : . . -~. . FOR HAT' FURS, TRUN: CASES, BAG~ UMBRELLA.S INTOS:HES, ~ Dunlap and Ste and Dent's ( WII :: 23'7· ·State ·st •. \

- •. ' I \ '.'· .j ··: ,'' r ~ ' ,. !' ' .. I I , I , , ' ' , I, ' \! ----ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 3 lll 1 terooUegiate Cap:s and Gown.s, C'G'l'RELL &. LEONARD, .ALBANY, N. Y. 1ilustrated bulletin: on application. WHI HOT DRE55 WELL? Suits a.R<i Overcoats TOU CAH bO IT EA51L I. Custom o1r Ready-Made. TOUR C~Rf.DIT IS QOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG:- Ngr. 417 STATE ST. BARHY~E & DEVENPECK., •. :~ilo1esale and Hetail... Coal a,nd Wood. Lime, Cement, Plaster, }[air, Flour, I 306,308 and 310 Union. Feed, Grain, Baled Has, Straw 200 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. JOHN KRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' T .A..:CLO:Ea. -----No() .. l 01 .Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-ma<ie St1it~ and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing ~_-epaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Vlorkcalled for and delivered. GO TO ''TilE OYEII\ RESTAURANT, BEST 25o DIJVNER IN THE CITY. OPEN D.A Y AND .NIGHT. Ladies' and Gen<ts ~ .Bestau'l\ant. 443 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y . 5CHE.RMERHORH & CO~, GEN:ER.A.L INS.lTlt.A:NCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Cenir€ Streets. SaHENEC\.rADY N. Y. C. G. CRAFT & CO., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y • CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and :Foreign Goods. Botham Carts. SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE COR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE CoR. JAY. ·. JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. I I . I JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WH2,:ESALE CROCERS, 218-222 State St. Tobacco, Gt•ain and P'l\ovisions. The 1~en Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and European Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill R~om Special Features H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, oscAR J. GRoss, D.D.s., HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. 1.516 JAY STREET, RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. TO 4 p . JY.[. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

_......._ADVERTIBEMENT.S.·------- 3 IntercoUegtate Caps and Gowns, COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. :Illustrated bulletin on application. WHT NOT DRE55 \VE.LL? Suits a.nd Overcoats 0. G. O:RAFT & 00., 'COR. M~IDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TA1LORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and l!,oreign Goods. Botham Carts. TOU <:AH ~0 IT ;EA51LT. SANDWICHES, all kinds. · Custom or Ready-Made. TOU~ C~REDIT tS CiOOD. Marcus Saul, PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. STATE CoR. CENTRE. : STATE CoR. JAY. PURE MILK, etc. MEYER LEHRBERG, Ngr. 417 STATE ST. ' JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. E. M. ROGERS. BA.RHYTE & DEVENPECK, •.. Wb()Jesale and Retail ... Coal and 'Wood. ·~ i Lime, Cement, Plaster, !lair, Flour, 306, ~08 and 310 Union. Feed, GI'ain, :Baled Ha-y, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St.. · 21.8-222 State St. and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. · Tobacco, G'J'ain. and P'I'O'VisiO'n6. JOHN KRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' . T .A..:t:LO:e. -----No. LO 1 ~ay Street.----- Ladies\ Tailor-made .Snits and Jackets. Gents\ Suits made to order. Cl<>thing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable p-rices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'' RESTAURANT, B.EST 25o DT:NNER IN THE CITY. OPE.N' D.A Y AND .NIGHT. Lallietl' 6nd. Gents~ .Bestau.1'ant. 44:3 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y • 5<:tiERMERHORM & CO., GENERAL INSlJR.A:NCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Cenire Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D.D.S., 156 JAY STREET, The Ten Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. -::--- American and European Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCKUTELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. TO 4 p. 1.[, Schenectady, N. Y. . Under the same management.

4 -----~A.DVERTISEMENTS.-- H =otel Vood_·,om,e Just a word Refitted ana Rejurnishecl. U1zder New Manag-ement. Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. II. A. PECK, PROPR.' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. To The Bog~ of lBOl-2-3 and 41 ... CALL ON ... JI~GAFFERS •• FOR YOUR •• ~~nf~~ti~nary, 'Tch~~~ an! ~igar~. 511 Union .Stxaeet .. • • • ~HE • • • Bdilaoa .s- Hotel, 8GHENEG1'ADY, N. \Yc The Largest a1·td Best Appoz'nteit HfJtel £ 1t the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. SN}lPPY l:JP-TO-B}l TE F00TWE}l.ft --AT-- JOHN E. KOCH'S, 257 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES, BEST ON EARTH $3.00 ana $3·50. to the $5.00 Shoe wearers \THE ~ALSTON HEALTH SHOES AT $4.00\ were made to satisfy you,. with w.a.ter-proof soles and in all kinds of leathers. JOHN W. EllER Ytt \' POPULAR PRICED SHOES. 321 STATE BT., .sCHENECTADY' N. Y. ~-Pi. W~S'r'P'~~~' HEW5DEAL.ER ~ ST JITIOtiE.R,. Magazine and Periodical Department . IMPO:QTED AND DOMESTIC CIGA.RS. TOBACCO OF ALL KINDS. 403 UNION STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. TATES' BOIIT HOUSE. The Largest and .Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hal~ which can be rented for Pri-vate Parties ()nly, in con- nection with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTAN RESTAQK.AHT AND LQNC.H ROOl1. 338 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Meal Tickets Sold. :Best Inducements to Students. Open from 5:30 A. M. to 1:0() A. M. WOHLBE:RG & ZEISLE:R, Props, C. H. Benedict, Ma.nager. Telephone 335. MONDAY, JAN. 28.-Mildred Holland, in ''The Power Behind the Throne.\ TUESDAY, .JAN. 29.-William Collier, in ''On the Quiet.\ THURSDAY, JAN. 31.-Howe's Wargraph. FRIDAY, FEB. 1.-\The Sunshine of Paradise Alley.\ SATURDAY, FEB. 2.-Ethel Barrymore, in ''Capt. Jinks of The Horse Marines.\

4 --ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Refitted and Refurnished. Under Nczv Jl:lanagc1ne1zt. Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. SCHENECTADY, No Y. -~~============ To ThB Bogs of 1901-2-3 and 4! ... CALL ON ... JI:tv.I: GAFFERS •• FOH VOPH •• ~~nf~~ti~n~ry, T~~a~~~ ~n~ ~igar~. 511 Union Street. -- -- ----- ------ --- -- -------- Edi ___ on -s- Hotel~ SCI·iENEG'fADY, N.Y. The La ;-g-est a1ld Best Appohzted Hotel i1z tlze City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, T'uurisb; and Commercial Travelers. ---- ----- -~- --- -- --------------- ------ --~-- ------- ~- ------- ~- -- - -. -- . -- -----· ---~- SNFPP'i t!PmTO-B}i TE F80TWE}lf\ --AT-- JO E~ KOCH'S, 257 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IV. /_. lJOl/Gf __ ..J.<..; ,<,'JJOE.<.,~, BEST 0.11/ l'::ll~'l\/1 $3.oo and $J.so. Just a word to the $5.00 Shoe wearers \'THE ~ALSTON HEALTH SHOES AT $4.00\ were made to satisfy you, with water-proof soles and in all kinds of leatl1ers. JOHN W. ElVIERY, POPULAR PRICED SHOES. 321 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. .ffi. P!. W.ffiST'F~~~' HEWSDE~LER ~~ ST IITIOtfER. IVIagazine and Periodical Department. IMPOQTED AND DOMESTIC CIGA~S. TOBi\CCO OF ALL KINDS. 403 UNION STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I ATES' BOAT MOUSE. 'l'he Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excelle11t Danclng Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in con- nection with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. :=======~===============- Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. MANHATTANKESTAQRANT AND L\IN~H R0011. 338 STATE STU.EET, SCHENJ<~CTADY, N. Y. Meal Tickets Sold. J3est Indueem€nts to Students. Open from 5:30 A .. M. to 1:00 A. :M. \\VOHLBJ~EG & ZI<:;ISLEit, Pl\ops VAN CURLER o~E~tJsE. C. H. Benedict, Ma.nager. Telephone 335. MONDAY, JAN. 28. -Mildred Holland, in \The Power Behind the Throne. \ Tl.TESDAV, JAN. 29.-Willialn Collier, in \On the Quiet.'' THURSDAY, JAN. 31.-Howe's Wargraph. FRIDAY, FEB. 1.-\The Sunshine of Paradise Alley.\ SATURDAY, FEB. 2.-Ethel Barrymore, in \Capt. Jinks of The Horse Marines.\ I

The ConcordieJlsis VoL. XXIV. UNION OOLLE'GE, JANUARY 24, 1901. No. 14. \CHINESE DIPLOMA·CY.\ Lecture by the President of the Imperial Unive.rsity o1· Peking. The student body, faculty and friends of the college enjoyed the most interesting lec- ture·that ha~ been de- livered in the chapel for sorne time on Fri- day afternoon. The lecture was on ''Chi- nese Diplotnacy\ and delivered by Rev. Dr. W. A. P. ~1artin, who wab for a long time president of the Imperial University at Peking. Dr. Mar- tin occupies a place in diplomatic circles of China second to none. His long resi- dence in the Celestial Kingdom and his thorongh knowledge of the Chinese charac- ter tnake him an authority on affairs ·pertaining to that country. In opening Dr. Martin referred to diplomacy as being in China distinctively a lost art. He traced the beginning of the practice by the establishm,ent of a school of diplomacy. It was a graduate of this school, · Chung Yan, who being refused admittance to one prince's court, went to the government of Chin, a province in the no~rth of China from which China derived its natne, and offered his services, telling the prince that he tnust conquer the provin- ces in the south as they were preparing to start an army for the northern provin- ces. This prince, about 250 B. C., took the young diplotnat's advice, marched on the province, cap- tured it and estab- lished his capital at Peking, and declared himself emperor of all China. ''The country was still h a rr a S·Se d by tribes from the north and so in order to keep out these hostile arn1ies the Great Wall was built, stret- ching fron1 the sea cost fifteen hundred n1iles inland. It has been said that the building of this wall was tha destruction of one generation and the salvation of fol- present Chinese Em- From\ The Sic1 8 e.in Peking.'• pire from the state of Copy)'ight, Igoo. FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY. DR, HARTIN IN' SIEGE COSTUME, AS HE ARRIVED IN' lowing generations. It has ever been able the COUntry three 0~ NEW YORK CITY, OCTOBER 23RD, 1900. to keep baclt UllOrga- four thousand years ago, when China consisted anized force, but never has been able to pre- of twelve divisions or states. He told how the vent the entrance of organized force. art of diplomacy sprang up and was kept in ''China has existed for two thousand years in

I The Concordie11sis VoL. XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 24, 1901. No. 14. \CHINESE DIPLOMACY.\ Lecture by the President of the Imperial University of Peking. The student body, faculty and friends of the college enjoyed the most interesting lec- ture that ha~ been de- livered in the chapel fur son1e time on Fri- day afternoon. 1.'he lecture was on ~'Chi­ nese Diplom~cy\ and delivered by Rev. Dr. vV. A. P. ~Iartin, who V\'H~ for a long ti tne president of the Imperial University at Peking. Dt~. Mar- tin occupies a place in di plon1ati c circles of China second to none. His long resi- dence in the Celestial J{ingdorn and his thorough know ledge of the Chinese charac- ter tnake him an authority on affairs pertaining tG that country. In opening Dr. Martin referred to diplomacy as being in China distinctively a. lost art. lie traced the beginning of the practice by the establishn1ent of a school of d iplon1acy. It was a graduate of this school, Chung Yan, who being refused admittance to one prince's court, went to the government of Chin, a province in the north of China frotn \vhich China derived its nan1e, and offered his services, telling the prince that he nu1st conquer the provin- ces in the south as they \vere preparing to start an army for the northern provin- ces. T'his prince, ~l bout z 5o B. C. , took the young diplomat's advice, tnarched on the province, cap- tured it and estab- lished his capital at Peking, and declared himself etnperor of all China. \'Tbe country was sti 11 h a r r a s s e d h y tribes fron1 the north and so in order to keep out these hostile i.l r m i e s t b e G r e a t \Vall \Vas built, stret- ching frotn tbe sea cost fifteen hundred 111 i 1 e s i n 1 and . It h a s been said that the building- of this \Vall \vas the destruction of one generation and the salvation of fol- present Chinese En1- From u Tlte Slegein Peking.r· · f 1 f Copytight, :xgoo. FLEMING H. REVELL COMPANY. ptre ron1 t 1 e state o DR, MARTIN IN SIEGE COSTUME, AS HE ARRIVED IN' 1 ow i ng generations. It has ever been able the country tl1ree or NEw vonK ciTY, ocTOBER 23nn, 1900. to keep back unorga- four thousand years ago, -vvhen China consisted anized force, but never has been able to pre- of twelve divisions or states. lie told how the vent the entrance of organized force. art of diplom~cy sprang up and was kept in ''China has existed for two thousand years in

i ! l f ' . l ' I I I , I j l ' 6 THE. 00N'00RDIENSIS. a consolidated empire, has always looke-d down upon other nations a.s uncivilized and has always employed a dictatorial tone in ali communica- tions with outsiders. Although the route to China was known as early or even before the journeys of the Polo brothers, yet it was <>n1y sixty years ago that treaties were n1ade -with that country. England twice sent ambassadors to the en1peror, the first of whom perfon11ed offices of a vassal and the second, unwilling to do the same, was disn1issed perernptorily. \About 250 years ago the present rulers of · China, the Tartars, for the etnpfess is a TaTtar, took possession of the throne, advancing upon Peking with the satne purpose as did the ei:gl1t powers last Sutnmer-to avenge their dead countrytnen and to rescue the living.\ Dr. Martin pointed out that through the lack of diplomacy China had again and again been forced into '\\.Tar with France and especi- ally England, and almost always when technic- ally China was right and the opponent in the wrong. \The rulers were opposed to progress ofany kind, for progress would bring enlightenment and enlightenment meant possible danger to their hold upon the throne. They believed in the Chinese maxitn, 'act according to old stand- ards if you wish to rule the people.' He re- ferred to the incident when an American admiral, throwing the neutrality of his country to the winds, co-operated with the powers in opening up China to the outside world, can·y- ing the Stars and Stripes in a position second to none, into the in1perial city of Peking. \That was forty years ago and now another exatnple of lack of diplomacy on the part of China has involved her in anothet· war. The young etnperor, after the Chino-Japanese war, was told bv one of his ministefs that the cause .., of the defeat of China and tbe rapid progress of Japan was in the fact that Japan had adopted western ideas and that if China wished to ~ope with her, she 1nust do the satne. The young emperor saw the truth of this and immediately began a tremendous series of reforms. The whole country was to be remodeled in a short time after western ideas. His fault -was that he went too fast. He followed Japan in all his re- foi4tns and Japan had copied them from the Uni:ted States. \This rapid course thoroughly ala,rmed the Chinese people and the ministers besou:gb.t the E.mpress-Dowager to come out of her retirement and take the reins of gove-rnment, which she did, compelling the emperor to abdicate. With her in power the young emperor's structure of reform fell to ruins. ''About this time the Boxer troubles began to be prominent in the south, owing to their attacks upon the Germans. They did not object to the German flag on the coast but to the iron l1orse that went snorting atnong the .graves of their ancestors. The empress secretly sent them arms and beckoned them to\\ 7 ards the capital. She was indignant at the demands of the powers for land for indemnities. If her dynasty survives it will only be on account of the good wilL of the foreign nations. \ Dr. Martin gave a very graphic description of the siege of Peking, of the gathering of the ten legations at the British legation, of the many privat.ions they had to undergo, of the bravery and courage of all present, and finally of the joyful rescue when the troops of the powers arrived. He spoke of the American minister, Mr. Conger, and his family, especially of his slightly eccentric wife who wished him to put up over gate of the legation the text, \I would not have you ignorant of the troubles that came upon us in Asia.\ He said that he was reminded forcibly during this siege of the prophecy uttered by Alexander Pope in his ''Rape of the Lock\ -'''A woman, tnaster of herself, though China falls .. \ He closed by giving it as his opinion that now as the powers have China down, they should not let her up until she protnises to seek her soul's salvation, and to restore the young emperor. The powers should then see that he carries out those reforms which he once pur- posed to do. '92.-Dr. George H. Burbeck has been appointed physician at the Cohoes jail. ' l

' l THE CONCORDI.ENSIS. UNIFO~M ENTQAN:CB EXAMINATION.S. AN UNDEQO~ADUATE SMOKE:Q. New England to Follow the Example of To Be Held at the Albany Press Club, 1he Middle.States and Maryland. A recent \Harvard C1·.imson\ contains the following article concerning the n1ovement in New England to follow the exatnple set by the Association of Colleges and Preparatory-Schools of the Middle States and Maryland to establish unifonn college entrance examinations: \By a recent vote of theN ew England Asso- ciation of Colleges and Preparatory Schools, President Eliot was authorized to investigate and report on the advisability of adopting a uniforrn entrance exatnination board, similar to that now existing in the Middle States. If the committee decided in favor of this plan, it is also to suggest a method of organization. ''The following persons have been appointed upon the cotntnittee: Ch airrnan, Frank A. Hill, Secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education; frotn the colleges-President Arthur T. Hadley, LL. D. of Yale; PresidentL. Clark Seelye, of Smith College ; Professor Williiam MacDonald of Bowdoin ; Pt·ofessor Edwin H. Hall ; Miss Mary Coes, secretary of Radcliffe College ; frotn the preparatory schools-Mr. George H. Browne, of the Browne and Nichols School; Dr. Robert P. Keep of Norwich Aca- derny, Connecticut; Mr. Eugene D. Russell of the Lynn Classical School; Mr. Harlan P. Amen of Phillips Exeter Academy; Mr. How- ard M. Rice of tht University School, Provi- dence, Rhode Island.\ THE LECTU~E COU~SE. Dr. Albert Shaw, editor of the \Review of Reviews,\ lectures on \College Men in Period- ical Literature,\ in the chapel at 3 :30 P. M. tomorrow. Dr. Shaw's wide acquaintance with his subject, and the familiarity of Union n1en with his writings, insures a large attendance. Robert Bridges, an editor of '' Scribner's Magazine,\ will lecture on \ The Man and the Book,\ Friday afternoon,. February 8. I February 8. The con1mittee appointed by the college to confer with representatives of the professional departrnents with reference to an undergracluate banquet, n1et them at the Ten Eyck last week. It was unanimously agreed by all that the affair, if successfully carried out, should be held in . Albany. The expense connected with a ban- quet, it was thought, might debar a large nutn- ber .of men frotn attending, and it was therefore decided to hold a srnoker, if one of the Albany clubs could be secured for the ev~ning. Through the courtesy of Dr. Arthur G. Root, of the Medical college, a mernber of the Board of Governors of the Press Club, all the privileges of the club have been offered to all students of the university for the eYening of February 8. 'fhe Press Club is the typical young tnen's club of Albany, and is an adtnirable place for a gathering of this kind. . The committee plans to n1ake the affair a success in every particular. Plenty of s1noking material and light t·efreshtnents will be served. A card will shortly be sent every student of the university explaining the detn ils, and urging each 111an to attend. The 1nember of the cotn- mittee from the Law School is Mr. Bedell; frotn the Medical College, Mr. Hoyt ; from the College of Phannacy, 1-.'Ir. Gillet; and from the college, Messrs. Clements, Wagoner and Merri- man. It is expected that several 1nen will be added fi·om the professional departments during the week. DAY OF PQA YEI{ FOQ COLLEGES. The college will observe Thursday, January 31, as the Day of Prayer for Colleges. The president has secured Dean Robbins of All Saints Cathedral in Albany as the speaker for that occasion. As usual, a general college recess will be taken, and the students will assemble in the chapel during the morning~

8 THE c·ONCORDIENSIS. FinST' JUNIO~ HOP. Large Attendance at the Boat .House Dance. The first Junior Hop of the season., held at the boat house last Friday evening, proved to be a most enjoyable .affair. About seventy-five we~e present, including a nun1ber frotn out of , town. The m.erry couples danced frorn nine to · two. Caterer Dobermann served light refresh- ments during the evening. The committee of 1902 proved themselves capable managers. Another hop will probably occur in the near future. Among those present were: Mrs. Strain ; Miss Bothwell of Albany; Miss HuntofWelles- ley ; Miss Bamber of Lockport; Miss Straus of Wabash, Ind. ; the Misses Button, Strain, Schoolcraft, Horstmyer, Vedder, Susan Yates, T. Yates, Price, Pitkin, ·Case, Fuller., Duder, Schuyler, Watson, Hopptnan, Harbison and Whitmyre of this city; Messrs. M. H. Strong, '96; E. W. Strong, '99; P. B. Yates, '98; W. C. Yates, '98; Medbery, '99; Batnber, 1900; Law1·ence, 1900; Rogers, 1900; Pike, 1900; Jackson, ex-1902; Heilman, Wilson, Dan·in of Hamilton; Wagoner, Brown, Merrirnan, Weed, Mallery, Argersinger and Golden, 1901 ; Stiles, Oakley, R. C. Yates, W. S. Yates, Small, Bloch, Ostrander, Woolworth, Griffith, Sands, Bothwell, Gillespie and Hays, 1902; A. S. Peck, Schroeder, Collier, Hoxie, Green, Bunting, G. Parker, Walwrath, G. W. Donnan and Gulnac, 1903, and Brand, Pahner and Cool, 1904. INTE~COLLEGIATE. The University of Pennsylvania is to have a new dormitory with a war tower in tnemory of her students who lost their lives in the Spanish war. The University of Pennsylvania will send a relay team to meet Harvard at the ·indoor games of the Boston Athletic Association, January 28. ENTQANCE EXAMINATION BOA~D. List of Examiners Made Public by Prof. Butler. The list of examiners for the year 1901, ap- pointed by the college entrance examination board of the middle states and Maryland, has been given out by Prof. Butler, the secretary of the board. Prof. Edward Everett Ha!le, Jr., of Union, is on the examining board on English. Every college in the middle states and Mary- land, withont exception, and almost every col- lege wherever situated, has formally expressed its willingness to accept these examinations as a satisfactory substitution for its own .separate admission examination as heretofore conducted. LECTURES ON A~CHAEOLOGY. A series of lectures on Archaeology will be given on January 25 and February 8, r5 and 21, at the Albany Academy, t1nder tl1e auspices of the New York Society of the Archaeological Institute of Atnerica. This course of lectures fonns part of an undertaking to extend beyond the limits of the city of New York that interest in the work of the institute which is so keenly felt within the city itself. Many persons, not professed archaeologists, it is hoped, by this n1eans will add to the membership of the insti- tute and increase its efficiency. A.ll lectures are illustrated by the stereopticon. Tickets for the course are offered without charge to those who may be interested. The last of the series will be given by Dr. Sidney G. Asl1more, on '' The Remains of Ancient Rome.\ The other lectures are as follows : January 25.-\Greek Painted Vases,\ by Dr. Julius Sachs, of New York city. February 8.-'' Practical Hints on Ancient Greek Dressmaking,\ by Dr. Clarence H. Young, of Columbia University. February 15.- \Discoveries in Northern Syria,\ by Mr. William K. Prentice·, of Prince- . ton University. The lectu-res all begin at 8 p.m.

I THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 YESPEQ SEQVICE. \For We Are Laborers Together With Christ.'~'-Dr. :Qaymond's Topic. President Raymond addressed a comparatively large body of the students at the Sunday after- noon service. He took as a text, ,, ' For we are t. .• 1 C·' . \ laborers togeb1er w1ti1 • nnst. \If we are laborers at all we are laborers together with 'God, for he is the material out of which we build. So the thoughts that we have, coming as they do from God, are large or stnall according to the stamp that our character puts upon thetn. 'I'ake for instance the builder. God furnishes the tnortar, the forces of adhesion and cohesion_. God does everything in fact, man does notb,ing. Now, knowing aU this, man ought to put l1oliness into his work. Take the . old prophets. Their thoughts were holy be- cause they opened their hearts freely to the Divine spirit, because their character was good. We re1net11ber the words of Christ \ The father : that dwelleth within me, he doeth the work.\ Paul says, ''We are laborers together with God. We are God's httsbandry.\ If we are laborers with God, we tnust use the forces which are acceptable to God if we vvish our works to abide. There is a power that demands that everything that abides must meet with the approval of the Divine power. poorly constructed, and built with mud instead of mortar.' ' That which a m~n soweth that shall he also reap.' '''Now in college what are we working for? For marks ? What are tnarks unless they are gotten honestly? \IV.,. e tnay th·ink that a thing not virtuous will bless us. But on the other hand it wiU curse us. Everything that is false will be destroyed. What we want is character that will endure. Now, how are we to build character? 'Now abideth faith, hope, love.' We tnust believe. Remember that faith is that assurance of Divine righteousness, that makes a man ~ay ' I am working with God and must do right.' But none of us can build character vvithout the eletnent of hope. Look ahead. There is good in the future for us if we want it. Whatever we have lost in the past may be regained. But rnightier than faith and hope is love. I believe that there is no power in this earth that can be co1npared with love. A man .Jnust have in hitnself the qualities that he wishes to put in others. We are pure and just and holy because we know without these we cannot bless the world. '' We tnust then have fellowsl1i p with Jesus Christ. I tell you, boys, there is nothing so real and nothing which clings to a man so ·strongly as fellowship with Jesus Christ. The :secret of all our building for eternity is found in hin1, who tnakes us hopeful and loving. If we trust in hitn, at the judgtnent day we shall have our reward.') THE EASTE~ I<ECESS. The faculty has announced the date and period of the Easter vacation. On account of the short- '' It is the characteristic of tnen to strive for things superficial. Men paint wood to resetnble marble, tnarble to resemble wood. So people are crazy after empty title. But whatever we may say of the basis of American life, I believe it is real. God tt·ies every man's work of what sort it is, and only what is real will abide. All that is unreal is sure sooner or later to be swept away;. for God demands reality. Because we are 'laborers together with God,' our work must meet the test ()f his righteousness. '' Strange t l1at with all the testimonies of the ages we still think that we are working alone. You know the fool has said in his heart,-' there is no power that I am bound to recognize.' We read of a building falling before it is completed. We say, 'what could we expect of a building : ening of the college year, the recess is neces- sarily cut -very short. The term examinations will end on 'I'hursday, April 4· The college will reassetnble Tuesday, April 9· In fonner years the recess has lasted about ten days. Co1nmencement day is Wednesday, June 12. The date and period of the senio1· vacation has not been decided upon as yet. An undergradu- ate petition upon the subject will be handed the faculty during this week.

,. ' 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONC:ORDIENSIS. Pu!Jl1ik~d E'Dtr'J' Wull.D:uri·~,C' i!u CDlleg-~ Yeart .BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager .JOHN McNAB, 1901, - - Literary Editor ARTHUR S. GoLDEN, 196:1, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHUR S. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager :R. R. D. C. EDITORS. ASSOCIATE C:RIM' 1902, HAWKES, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, · A. H. HINMAN, 1902, HA \YS 1902. W. E. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, S. B. HOWE, JR., 1903, A. S. PECK, 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, R. C. DONNAN, 1903. CoNCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TE::RNS: $2. 00 per Year, in Ad vance 10 Cents .Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered a.t the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 414Sta.te Street, Schenectady, N.Y. The lecture tomorro-w afternoon by the editor of the \Review of Reviews\ on \College Men in Periodical Literature,\ should attract a large representation of the student bQdy. WHY DON'T you give more prominence to the literary department of The Concordiensis? The editor has several times been asked this question. The answer is simple. This periodical is, essenti- ally, a newspaper. Last year's board attempted to make it partly literary. As a stimulus to liter- ary work on the part of the students, the faculty consented to allow stories, poems, or articles of a literary character submitted to the Concordiensis, to count as regular work in the rhetorical depart- ment. The attempt proved unsuccessful, for the . students apparently cared little for the privi- lege. The '' Parthenon,'' started by F. Packard Palmer in the fall of '96, and continued as a ;· monthly literary magazine for three years, led an unappreciated existence. These experiments have ,clearly shown that the literary element at Union is not over-anxious to put the result of its work before the public. Notwithstanding this, The Concordien- sis is as anxious as ever to receive contributions of a literary nature from men1bers of the student body and to publish them, if at all meritorious. Such contributions will be published auonymo:usly, if so desired, and will count as work in competition for positions on the sta:ff of the paper. THE RESOLUTIONS adopted by the student body and published in another column, are certainly a step in the right direction. All that is now need~d to make them of effect, is the ratification of the second by the different fraternities and class orga- nizations. It has long been felt at Union that some such action as this was necessary if inter- fraternity discord was to be done away with, and if class and college officers were to be selected on the merit basis. Some question has been raised as to whether or not these resolutions, if ratified, are going to have the eiiect that is intended. The framers do not for a moment expect that they are going to stop members <>fa single fraternity from voting solidly for a candidate for office who hap- hens to be a member of that frater:L ity. Nor have they forgotten that personal friendship may be a decided element in determining elections. What is expected, is that the system will crush out that old spirit of fraternity combine against fraternity combine,-as best instanced by the old \Quad\ and \Anti-Quad\-both of unhappy memory. The time has come when Union politics can be made clean. All that is now needed to secure such a result is the cordial co-operation of every student in carrying out the proposed system and the single detennination to lift ourselves above mere ''party exigency.'' The rejection of the third resolution, requiring that candidates for assistant mauagerships should be tried out by the re~pective managers and that the Athletic Board should make recommendations .. !, .t I. ~\

t ,, . I 'I} ·• I ~; ! . ' ' 1' .~, ' 1 I ' i I. ~\ THE CON·CORDIENSIS. 11 upon these candidates to the student body, indi- cates that the undergraduates possess a strong sentiment of conservatism against . placing, or seemingly placing, power of election in the hands of a few. It was fairly argued that, in such a small college as this, the students can get a very good idea of a man's ability by personal associ- ation and observation. The undergraduate coun- cil, in its recommendation, was attempting to better the system-not with the intention of taking away any powers of the student body, but rather of improving its ability to judge the relative efficiency of men. Yet the students considered the method to be needless, and, in some ways, useless. And so the resolution was rejected. The rejection was in one way at least, very effective. It paved the way for a more thorough consideration in the future of the recommendations of the undergraduate council. There has been a decided feeling against this body ever since last year's council arbitrarily handed in a petition to the trustees, purporting to come from a united student body, relative to the shortening- of the col- lege year. The present council has no such idea of its largeness, and has no intention of going beyond the bounds set down for it in its constitu- tion. Any important measures it wishes to intro- duce, have been and will be invariably published in this paper prior to the time when they shall be placed before the college meeting for consideration. THE FOOTBALL OUTLOOK POI{ 1901. The last appearance of the r9oofootba.ll eleven, as such, was made last Saturday when the sturdy wearers of the· H U\ on the gridiron donned their mole-skins and sat for their photogt·aph at Talbot's. The first step toward the perfecting of the organizatiou of a teatn for next year was taken when Everett T. Mallery, 1902, of Middleburg, was elected captain of the 1901 aggregation. That Mallery will be a good leader and turn out a first·class team next fall, no one has the least doubt. With the exception of Weed and Fenton, all of last year's team will probably be available in the formation of next season's team. Paige has another year at tbe Law School and expects to play again. There is also a. local Albany star, Flinn, in the Law School, who is planning to get up to Dorp for football practice when the season op~ns. 'l'hebo, Finnegan, Shaw, Ander- son, Griswold, Collier, Lee,, Wells, Oimsted and Cronkhite, all expect to return. Captain Carver, of last )'ear's team, l1a's also decided to return next yeal'. There are several members of the second eleven, who stand a good chance for positions on 1the 'varsity. Manager Woclworth has been arranging his schedule since the beginning of the year. He has already booked games with Syracuse and Dartmouth, the former to be played October 12, on the campus~ and the latter at Hanover, N. H., November 16. Hobart will probably come here for the first game of the season. A game with Cornell at Ithaca for the first Saturday in October is under consideration. Colgate expects to come to Schenectady. The Rochester game has not yet been settled, owing to some conflicts in their schedule .. The usual Williatns game could not be satis- factorily arranged and will, probably, be omitted next year. TbeTe are very good prospects of gatnes with West Point for N oven1 ber 9, and Brown at Providence, R. I., for November 23. Rutgers may come to Schenectady, November 2. Gatnes witl1 Trinity and Amherst are also under conside~ration, the fonner of which will possibly be plaJ'ed in Schenectady. Y. M. C. A. CONVENTION. Representations from All Organizations in 1he State to lVleet. The annual state Y. M. C. A. convention I will be held in vVatervliet, February 8-Io, I90I. ~ Representatives fron1 all local and c01lege organ- : izations in New York state will meet at that 1 time to discuss plans fo1· the furtherance of the :work. The ¥. M. C. A. at Union expects to . · send a large delegation. President Fraser Metz- \ ger will deli vet.· a short address upon \Student · Work.\

' ; '·f· 12 THE' CONCORDIENSIS. A CAL,L FO:Q CANDIDATES. Track Men Not Qesponding As They Should. The Indoor Athletic Meet scheduled with the . 37th Sep::rrate Company at the Atmory, for February 14th, is not attracting the ~~ttention of the student body in a way that it should. AU arrangements have been made by the mana.ge- ment for a most protnising contest, yet there is lacking a spirit of t·ivalry on the part of the vari- · ous candidates for the team. It wiU be hurtful to the athletic standing of Union if she is defeated in this meet, and it should be the duty of every n1an in college to do his share to see that she is not. The following events will be included in the contest: 40 yards dash ; 220 ya1·ds dash ; 440 yards run; half mile run; 40 yards high hurdles; 12 lb. shot; running high jutnp and pole vault. There will also be a relay race between teams of four tnen. Each man is to run a quarter mile. It is very necessary tbat all members of that teatn be in good condition, as much depends upon the outcotne of this event. The Continentals have several very good men, who have competed on their 'varsity teams while students. Their strength should not be under- estimated, for all are training faithfully. While our own facilities for training are anything but of the best, still every man will be given ample opportunity to show his ability. Let every man who has any ability whatsoever come out, and at least create a strong corn petition for places on the team. ADDRESS ON CHEMIST~Y. The Labor Lyceum was addressed by Dr. Mautice Perkins last Sunday. The professor talked on '~Chemistry and Its Discoveries. The large audience which was present, was much interested. '98.-Ralph Bradford is chemist for the Eagle Button company of Amsterdam. PUniTY IN UNION POLITICS. Steps Taken by the Student Body Toward th:e Abolition of Deals and Combinations. The Undergraduate Council presented a set of resolutions at the college meeting this week which had the tnain object in view of purifying college politics. The students adopted the two resolutions in regard to stopping canvassing and tnaking deals for elections, and rejected the one favoring trying out candidates preliminary to their election. The two resolutions adopted are as follows : \Resolved-- That the canvassing for votes by candidates for office, or by their friends, be dis- couraged by the students individually and col- lectively. ''Resolved, second} y-That the several fratern- ities and other organizations of the college pledge themselves to abstain from all participa- tion in deals and cotnbinations for college and class offices.\ The second resolution is to be made final only after a committee of the Undergraduate Council has waited upon the fraternities and other organ- izations and received their pledges. ''Other organizations\ includes the \neutral\ section of each class, Theta N u Epsilon and other class societies. VISIT BY MINISTEQ WU. While in Schenectady last week, the Chinese n1inist~r visited the college and drove about the grounds with the president. He was impressed very favorably with the appearance of the col- lege. Frank I-I. Daly, 1903~ played a tnatch checker contest last week in the local Y. M. C. A. rooms with the checker champion of Bchenec- tady county, Myers. The contest resulted in a tie. Twenty games were played, in which Daly and Myers won five each. Ten games :ended in a draw. I I I

13 MALLEQY ELECTE.D CAPTAIN. SN:OWBALL SC!l.A.P. The Garnet's Halfback Chosen Leader of · Fierce Strugg1e Between the Underclass- Next Fall's Eleven. men Ends in a Draw. Everett T. Mallery, 1902, was elected captain of the football eleven for next year, at a ·meeting of the team last Saturday. The selection meets with the approval of the student body. Mallery has served with distinction on three Union elevens. He entered college with I 901, and made \Ton1n1y\ Chrichton's eleven the same fall. He played a brilliant gatne sopl1omore year, though laid up a large part of the season with a bad knee. He was the hero of the Will- iams game that fall, as he tnade an eighty-five yard run and the only score of the day. \Chic\ left college in June, '99, and returned this fall to play a faster game than ever. Mallery is a heady, consistent player, with plenty of grit to aid him. lie follows his inter- ference well and is always quick to see the slightest opening. Tacklers often find him very slippery. He is a strong man on the defense, and a hard tackler. He is also a good tnan on. the baseball diamond, and was on the nine as one of the pitchers during his first two years. COLLEGE CALENDAr{. FRIDAY, JAN. 25- 3 :30 P. M.-Lecture in the Chapel by Dr. Albert Shaw. Subject: \ The College Man in Periodical Literature.\ 7 :oo P. M.-Bible Class .at the Y. M. C. A. rooms. '' Studies in the Life of Christ.\ SuNDAY, JAN. 27. 5 :oo P. M.--- Vesper service. MoNDAY, JAN. 28. 3 :30 P. M.-Meetingofthe 1902 Garnet Board. TuEsDAY, JAN. 29. 7 :15 P. M.- Y. M. C. A. service. 8 :oo P. M.-Adelphic meeting. WEDNESDAY, JAN. 30· 7 :oo P. M.-Philomathean meeting. 8 :oo P. M.-Bible Class at the Y. M. C. A. roorns. '' Studies in the Acts and Epistles.\ 'The annual snowball '''scrap\ between the sophomores and freshnten occurred last Wed- nesday n1orning- after the chapel exercises. The presence of plenty of soft snow without the usual :attendant of slust'l, made the fight very intelesting. 1 N:eiither si€1e had been anticipating the fight, whicb was started on the spur of the moment. Yet the snowballs were soon flying thick and fast~ and tl~e men were dropping oooks and hats to engage in the struggle. The nght comrnenced in front of the chapel and gradually wor :ked down to the terrace, when the real struggle began. J3oth sides were ve1·y evenly matched, both in size and numbers. In consequence, many on b<>th sides were continu- ally dropping over the terrace, and sliding into the ditch at the bottotn. The contest lasted until about nine o'clock when, by tnutual con- sent it was given up, and the men returned to their rooms to put on dry clothes. The upper classmen were generally of the opinion that the fight was a dr~w. A UNIVE:QSITY CATALOGUE. New Plan Adopted This Year by the Boa. rd. The catalogue to be issued in a few weeks by the university is to be difFerent in form to that published in former years. The old catalogue will be greatly enlarged upon. Instead of giv• ing short notices of the professional schools, the full courses of instruction will be mapped out and a complete list of the students and their addresses will he given. In a word, the pro- fessional sch()ols will he given the same con- sideration th~t the college now has. The Brandow Printing company of Albany, is doing the work on the book. It is expected that the catalogue will be published sometime in J:l\\\'ebruary.

14 TJIE CONOORDIENSIS. ~----------~~---------------- BASEBALL PLA.NiS. The baseball season this year wi H undoubt .. edly be as brilliant a·s the one· last spring. Though Captain Parker has not yet returned to college, on account of illness, he is soon ex- pected back. T.rai ning will then commence in . the \gytn and pitching and catching, in the baseball cage. The vacancy caused in the posiitio n of mana- gership by reason or Mr. Hackett leavin()\ col- o lege, will be filled' at the next college meeting. An as&istant rnanager will _be elected at the satne ti rne. Before ~11·. Hackett left col1eg-e, a num- ber of gatnes had heen arranged for the con1ing season. Dates with the University of Vermont, Middlebury, West Point, Colgate, University of . Rochester, New York University~ and Williatns . were settled upon. It is expected that gatnes will.be scheduled with St. Lawrence Colu. mbia ' ..... ' and other colleges. A fuller announcetnent will be rnade in a future issue, after the Athletic Board has informally passed upon th.e schedule. CAMPUS NOTES. Alpha Delta Phi gives a dance at her house Ft·iday evening. The Board of Trustees of Union co liege will meet in Albany next Tuesday. Dr. Frederick R. Jones will address the local Labor Lyceutn Sunday afternoon. The Board of Governors of the University met at the Ten Eyck on Tuesday. Prof. Hale will deliver a lecture on. \English Literature in the Nineteenth Century,\ before the members of the Unity Club of A1banv on Friday evening, February r. \ ' President Raymond reads a paper bcfot·e the Albany Institute and Historical and Art Society this evening. Tomorrow evening he speaks on \ Robert Burns\ before the Burn's Club of Albany. Saturday he attends a 1neeting in New York of the Executive Committee of the Associ- ation of Colleges and Preparatory Sch()ols of the Middle States and Maryland. He preaches in Worcester, Mass., on Sunday. THE ALUMNI COACH COMMITTEE. Qesolutions Adopted by the Student Body Commending Its Work. The following resolutions was adopted· at the college tneeting Monday morning: \Whereas Son1e of the younger alumni of Union college have fon-ned themselves into a com n1ittee for the purpose of providing the foot- ball eleven with a suitable coach, and \ Whereas, We, the undergraduates ofU nion college, consider that to theh· efforts the success of the football eleven last fall was largely due, \ Therefore be it resolved, That a vote of thanks be extended the Alurnni Coa·ch commit- tee for its efficient work, and that ·a copy of these resolutions be published in the Con- cordiensis.\ THE ALUMNI COLUMN. Will the class secretaries of '41, '51, '61, '71, '76, '81, '86, '91, '96 and '98, kindly communi- cate with the Editor-in-Chief? The Concordi- ensis d·esires to do everything in its power to further interest in the approaching commence- ment reunions. '79.-Edward P. White was elected a tnetn- ber of the committee on \Law Reform\ tor the Fourth Judicial District of theN. Y. State Bar Association. '73.-William P. Rudd was elected last week a member of the executive committee for the Third Judicial District by theN. Y. State Bar Association. IT FATS STQJ)EMTS OP \QMION\ TO TRADe WITH QS. A special discount of 10% on TOOTH BRUSHES, HAIR BRUSHES and PERFUMES to all \Union\ men. H~K.ST MANN' .S PHARMACT, W. N. Bailey, Mgr. Opp. Post Office. I \ ~.y. . '• I; l ·' . l

,, . . I \ I.Y. '•, I; l ·' . l 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 $23.000 Our Grand $25,000 Ornithological Contest. Something entirely new and interesting~ Read what you are to do. You may get 1,000 dols. Our contest is to see who can make the largest list of names (or kinds) of birds from the fol- l0wing list of letters: WDOOOCCKQULIAPRTARIDG ESPNIELVEBRDIMWADOHTL We will recognize as a bird anything belonging to the feath- ered tribe, whether it be a :El en, Crow, Singer or any other kind. You can use any letter as many times to make a name as it ap- pears in the list of letters above ; for instance, Woodcock, Plover, Snow Bird, etc. To any person wbo can make a list of 25 or more different names of birds, we will give absolutely ],HEE a beautiful prize, value 1,000 dols. or less. BIG PRIZES AWARDED IJAILY. When you have made out your list fill out the line on .the bot- tom of this advt. and send to us with a Stamped Addressed Euvelope, stamp of your country will do; then if you are m~ arded a prize you can, if you desire, get the prize by becom- ing a subscriber to The Womatls Wo.,ltl. We shall award a vr· ize to every person who sends the name of 25 Birds, and our gifts will be as follows: For the best list, received each day, a Gold 'Vatch; for the second best solution each day, a beauti- fu.l imported Tea Ret; for the .seven next best solutions each day, a Konrah f:akih Diamond and Ruby lting ; for the next best solution, a Gold Piece; and for all other correct solutions, Prizes of Good Value. These prizes will be forwarded daily ; you will not have to wait a long time in uncertainty before you know tl1e result. There is no element of lottery in our plan. It makes no difference whether we get your solution late or early in the day. .A.ll you need is to mail this advt. to us, and on the day it yeaches us, if your list is the best, you shall have th.e Gold Watch, or if second best, the beautiful 'l'ea ~et, and s<J\on. We guarantee that we will awat·d you a prize. There is absolutely no opportunity for deception on. our part-we can- not afford it. We want to get 1,000,000 well satisfied subscrib- el\S and for that reason we don't want you to send any money until you know exactly what prize you have gained by answer- ing the puzzles. As soon after 4 p. m. each day as possible, the ex:aminers will judge the lists to the best of their ability, and will designate the prizes. We will write to you at once notify- ing you what prize has been awarded to yon; then if you are sa.tisfied, you can send your subscription to Tke Woman's Wtwld and your prize will go by return of mail carriage paid. r.ro a person of narrow ideas it seems impossible that we should be able to make such a gigantic offer, but we have the money, brains and reputation. We know exactly what we are doing, and if we can legitimately gain a million subscribers by this gr-and idea we know that this million of well pleased· subscrib- er-s can be induced to recommend The Woman's W1rld to all friends, thereby building up our circulation still further. We aLe willing to spend 25,000 dols. in this contest in building up a big subscription list, and when this money is spent we reserve th.e right to publ bh a notifieation that the contest has been dis- continued. Don't delay until it is too late. The contest will continue until July 1st, 1901. We' give a Bonus Prize of 250 dols., independent of all others, t() the person who Rends in the list gotten up ir1 the best a.nd handsomest manner. Our committee will decide and award prizes daily, but the special250 dols. prizes will be awarded in September, 1901. Any bird\s name found in the dictionaries accepted. WHO WE A:QE. The \Woman's World\ is a thoroughly reliable concern. We are known to do exactly as we advertise. As to our reM liability we refer to any Advertising Agent or business man of London or New York. N AM£ ....................................................................................................................................... .. SiREE:T .................................................................................................................................. .. TOWN ................. ~ ................................... COUNTRY ...................................................... . N. B.- Be careful and prepay your letter 5c, as w.e do not re- ceive underpaid letters. Address:- THE \WOMAN'S WORLD,\ BRENTFORD, LONDON, W.ENGLAND, N£W I:DITION Webster's Int;;;iiaiiOnal ,. .. n-ee RB'*fiW & Pi~ry NEW PLATES THROUGHOUT 25,:000 Ne-w- Words Pbra.ses and Definition$ P1·epared under the direct supervision of \V. T. HA.RRIS, Ph.D., LL.D., United States Commi~sioner of Education, assisted by a large corps of competent specialists and editors. Rich Bindings. 5000 Illustrations. Z364 Page's., :SE,TTER THAN EVER FOA STUDENTS' USE. We also publish Webster's Collegiate Dictiona.ry with Glossary of Scottish Words and Phrases. \First class in quality, second class in size.\ NicHOLAs MuRRAY :BuTLER. Specimen pages, etc. of both books sent on application. G. t!J· C. '\MERRIAM CO., Publishers, Springfield, Ma.ss. CASH 0~ CREDIT. S. R. JAMES, 202-204 STATE ST • S C:S:EJ::.:TEOT .A.D -y- ~ l:.'l'\. Y'\. CROCKERY, GLASSWARE, FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS, HOUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-B:RAC, ETc. Sporting Goods! Base Ball Supplies. Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photographers' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. ---AT--- J. A. RICKARD & CO.'S., 253 STATE S'l'REET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

l6 · ..A.DV.ERTISEMENTS.-- P te&·K·r.o·.Jt.D BR:O·~., ,,~, U'tli en Mar kat.\ Dealers in AU Fresh M&ats and Poultry. Game z:n Season. Telephon£ 38-F. 602 UNION, COR. Jl~RRE:'TT ST. ~ PRATT 'TEACX:ERS' AGENCY Recommends coHege and nor-ma:l g~aduates, specialists, and other teachers to colleges, public and private schools :an.d families. Advises .parents .about schools. WM. 0. P'RATT, Manager. 7o ·Fifth: Ave., New York. CLASS PIPES 0 rigimi.l Designs In the Guaranteed Our :Boek on Pipes for the ~sking • \ ~ - .. · ... :~t > .. \!' 'f • \ .;f e) FI r\1: Nl f rJr5 :5IS. '1~ e> ~, Importet· and Mant:J.fa..cturer. 217 Walnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA. CHAS. BURROWS, ...........,.NTbttwn:c=e• Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Rubber StCLmps, Picture Framing, Printing, ebc. 410-414 STATE ST., sc·H.EN:ECTADY, N. Y. SwE.:NY SPO·RTI·NC c.o·OD·S Co. 72 State St., ALBA.NY, N.Y. COMPLETE LINE. BEST QUALITY. 73 STATE STREET. .ALEANY, N. Y. GYMNASIUM: SUITS. ATHLETIC GOODS. Buy your Camera Supp.ltes of Pinch .~ Hahn, 3()4 State Street. J'JOWEST FBI()ES. ·110N BRA:NO T.RAO.E MARK A 1 1 HLETIC ROBES LOUNGING ROBES BATH ROBES FOR SALE IN SCHENECTADY BY Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- Wood Brothers.

-----A.D'VERTISEMENTS.---.- l7 SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS. AN EASY WAY TO EARN.: $25.00 We will pay this to anyone sending us 20 new yearly sub· scrlptions. a c co m • panied by the \full yearly price for each subscription. •• •• •• Send two cent stamp 'for prospectus, sam· pie copies and par· ticulars •••••••••• Outing Publishing Co. 239 Fifth. Ave.. N. Y. THE I.~·ARGEST AND HANDSOMEST JE\\VELRY STORE IN THE STATE. SIM, PEIRSON & CO., &·ROADWAY\' S-.:COND ST •• TROY. N. y. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. ~ LOCOMOTIVES § - - - - - = § - - = - of Standard Designs for all c1 asses of service, or from designs furnished by railroad companies. Annual Cap,acity, 450. W. & L. E. GURLEY~ ~~· ~~ ·~ ·~ ' ' . ~ 514 Fulton St., T~OY, N. Y. Largest Mannfactnrers in America I I I I .... of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing lnstruflu:nts and Materials. +-~• All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note Books, Fine Stationery, etc. A limited number of the SoNGS OF '' 0Ln UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE.

18 -----ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Sales offices in all the large cities of the United States. ···~ : ••• ~ -'!r- • Electric LightittJJ Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by c. co ETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. W Manufacturers of High-Grade Frater- R I C H T 1 nity Emblems, J.i'raternity Jewelry, Fra.ternity Novelties, Fraternity Pro- K & C grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- A Y ;Q. nity Announcements, Fraternity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Speeial designs on appliea.tion. 140-1.4~ Woodwa-rd A-ve., DETBOIT, HICH. THE WORDEN 'RE.ST AURt!IHT CHAS. KIEFI!'ER, Prop. 2.58 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3.50. Schenectady, N.Y. The Finest Table Board In The City. Open from 6 .A. M. to 8 P. M. -;Y: -;Y: :ro:e::NSON ~ ~ Union's Tai·lor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N.Y. TROY HOUSE, Best BUHat•d and Pool Pa-rlor.-t in the Oity. Ea. tea $2. 50 ::r?er ::Ce.-:sr anc:!. \'C\'J?\W\Birc!.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. · TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock of Monarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. High Grade Merchant ~ailor­ ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealer. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 2i Tickets, $3.00. 144: South Oe:c.t:re St. U I Cl th' c H 1 ' BON SONS nton 0 - lng 0. U'T er s ... A.ND ••• J CHOCOLATES. ALBANY, N.Y. fALL .STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the World. F\IRHISHIN~S, HATS, J:TC.. Ten per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THJ: UNION. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drutts. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

·:·.r~--~'-::'~~·:::r ... ;·~~.'it:•-:::. . .:..~~-·::::--:::~'.:;:;.,..:.-;-- .... ~:- ... c,:::;<;~~·v'::':::\'\; .. ;:;: ~-~:- . ...:.:\\~~.~~-· .. ;;.:...~:~; -·~...; ~ ~ , , • :_•-:..~· · _;.;\'~'-.!:·.!·~-'-~·-\-' · ··.\'fi •. :\_ 1 ·- '':\.\\-~: ~ .... :~ .. :·~:::::_.;_\:;·:?'.:·~· ~·: ~'-::~:~~·;;;·:-r:-.·-~.:-,?\' ... ~\':·~--:·:.-::-·>:;< .<:.::t;:..-.3.'::~ ..:u.~.f:o;:::r. 1 :.t':.:....>:--~=~-;~<:·:.:; •• ;~:~~~~...,.o...,:.:...,ro:·~.~~';,.._.:;:: -~!~~-lt~~~\:;..'V :->b\\':'f'<v'~,-=.-.::;.·'}<·'::. :;n'..r;..ilrji ·~·'·\'': ,.;.:;'*': --~:,.,~: :_ 1~ --ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Sales offices in all the large cities ••• ~; of the United States . ' -~ ~~{ . . •· ..... ___ ~_, E'lertric Lighting Apparatus. El~ctric General Railway I Apparatus. Electric Electric Power Co. Apparatus. El~ctric Transmission of Power. •••• SOHENEOT ADY, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to Htudents by c. GOETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. W RICHT, KAY & Co. Manufacturers of High-Grade Frater- nity Emblems, Fraternity Jewelry, Fraternity N oveltit>s, Fraternity Pro- grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- nity Announeements, Fraternity In- vitationH. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. 14:0-142 Woodward Ave., DETROIT, lJIICH. Union Clothing Co. ALBANY, N.Y. Fl-lLL STOCK C0t\17LETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best in the World. FQRNISHINQ.S, HATS, ET<:.. Ten per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THI: UNION. THE WORDl:H REST:/~URAHT CHAS. KIEFFKR,. P1·op. 258 STATI~ STREET, 21 .Meals $3.50. Scbenectady, N. Y. The Finest lable Board I 11 The City . u Open from 6 A. lVL to 8 P. M. U.n ion's Tailor. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALl3ANY, N. Y. ------------- -·--- ---. --~---- -------- TROY HOOSE, R~st n ill ia1•cl ~nd Pool Pa'l•lortt in the City, :E. a. tes $ ::.2 • 5 0 Per ::C e..y- a.:r:l.d. V'J?\\C\:rS.:rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Compl<'te Stoek of Monareh and High Priced Oen t8' 8l10es. Hi~h G ra.de Merchant Tailor- ing. 011ly first-elass men employed. MAX SCHM·I DT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. H.eal Estate Dealer. J. A. Cl{AMER. \V, KLii~IGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clint<>n Street, Scbene~tady, N.Y. ===.::·-=-·~- -=:.::.._-_-- ~ STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 21 Tickets, $3.00. 1.44 South. Oe:n.t:re St. ---· -~-~- -- -- ---- -·- BON BONS Huyler's • .. AND ... CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Prem()S and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the :Purest of Drugs. AT LYON'S DRUG: STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -.· < ·.:;_·-· ~' ',._ ' . .

-.· ~' . :;.·.:·· . I l· . . •' .. '' . ·, '·, __________ ! -· ADVERTI8EMENTS . ..,._., --- Chas. 'Holtzmann s· E'· ... ·. M' •1:1' ~~==========~. ===----------.__,..... , •• • . • · • \ / 1 e r,. Carries the Largest and Bes~ Lin.e pf . . . ·· · 'Il\(\·I:D:. ·g·· a: U4 p.···u:r·n, ·l•·s·:·h:I·n.·· .. g·· 6·· 0:·/\·d··s··· . MEN'S FURNISHING GOODS, . . \J \1 u · · , .: . · tl : · ' . . U · , SOLE AGENT FOR . - IN THIS CITY. .~tudents are entitled. to a ten per cent. discount . 'THE·. REGAL SHOE. . . . 259' State St. S·OIIENEOTA.DY, N.Y. · 34:-86 MArD:EN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. ~~~---~~EUROPEAN----------- fi1l ©}T~l A ~ A fR\I~5 Tt~l<UlfR\Jil[~UT SJ ·Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N.Y. QE.MTLEM.EN ONL T. 250 ROOt\S. LADIES' RESTAURANT ATTACHED. WILLIAM H. KEELER, PROP •. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROAD'WAY. w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ DOBERMANN'S ~ ~ ICE CREAM ,.AND ICES .~ ·~ Are Absolutely Pure. ·~ ~ 238 State St. S~HEN:CTADY, N.Y • ._Cft ~~~~~~~~~~~Q,@QiY~ PETER TIERNEY, ----AGENT FOR---- ~gardner, ltone ~ go. laundry, 307 STATE ~T .. , SCHENECTA.DY, N.Y. FRIEDMAN 'BROS., ' · Wholesale Dealers in . . SOUTHE~N PRODUCE, BUTTER,CHEESE, \ . EGGS, FRESH. FISH, OYST-ERS, CLA.~S, ETC. Potatoes a Specialty. 102 So~ Centre St ... SCHENECTADY, N .. Y. Telephone !5. CLARK WITBECK ,Skates, Hard ware, Bicycles. 413 STATE 't3T:REET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FIN'E :C(lLORED SHIR1,8 FOR ·MEN ...... \Beautifully made shirts, fine as custom made goods, all the finest materials and choicest pat- terns, skillfully cut for perfect fitting. We make a specialty of only the best goods in our Men's Furnishing Goods Department. Full lines of the latest requis·ites for men's use. Exclusive styles aad lowest prices. H. S. BARNEY & CO. Boots lfAttd Sltoes Repar[1~ed. -yv~ e respectfully request the patronage of the studettts. First-class workmanship. Moder- ate prices. 422UnionSt., B MARK Schenectady, N. Y. • • ~ . ' . ('~ ·\~··· • ,~;~ Q ---_- -- . -' * * * 1·ater~r and le6taurateur. ~!'---------UTICA, N~ Y. LEE W. CASE. ESTABLISHED 1840 . F. W. McCLELLAN· LE\7:C C..A..SE £ 00 . ., I Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steam . ~·Heating, Plumbing, Metal Work. W .ARREN.S'TiR'EET. SCHENECTADY, N.

. . ~ ,. Ou1· clothing with the kind sold in ordinary stores. t RoGERS~ PERT & Co.'s overcoats and suits, rank with the finest made- to-measure garments. We have the exclusive sale of this elothing. :QLOTHI'EBS~HATTERS--FURNISHERS. 23-29 S. Pea.:rl St. (DeGraaf Bldg.) ALBANY, :N. Y. DON'T CHARGE FANCY PRICES. MAKE ONLY T·O ORDER·. ·~ . . . . .. . . Extensite ONLY MAKE UP FINE ·STUFF. Ladies Dept. . . . ~. . .. . . LEO OPPENHEIM, THE TAILOR. 18 and 80 So. Pearl St. ALBANY, N.Y. WOOD BROS., '' Mens' Outfitters.\ Latest styles of Fall and Winter Ha.ts and Caps. Dress 5 hirts. Immense line of Underwear and Neckwear. Perrins Bros. Kid GloTes. . , ••• • ... 265 ... STA·TE ST., SCHENECTADY. ~ ~ • . / ;,;': . i~ .. \4 • ....-· •• • . .., .. • j - ' ~ ~: . ' ·~-- ... t·\ :· .

.., .... . , ' ' ·~-- . •' ,..;\'· ... ·,;· ;..-:. ,:1':: '· t'l - .. ,_ .·, ··'· '.' : . ~ ~ ~.. ' ',·· ,•' . . . h .. · . . e • l . . , •.· , ' . { . '*' PIJBL:ISHED WEEKLY BY TH.E .;: STUDENTS. OF UNION S . VN . Ct'f·E'NECTAPV,' . i Y . ·No. 1. p.

.... > .... , ',!' . . :t. \ \\ ~' ! ,· • ' . ·~ .. _ .. ' ,· •. I. . ·:..:: .. 1, ~ .. • • I ' -· . .. ,, . ' U · u· ~· · ·t QIOQ }1lV~fSt_y._ !IDREW V .. V. RAYMO_Nn, n. J:. ,LL .. D.,· President. UNION COLZliGE, SCHENECTA.IJ ¥:. N. Y. ' 1. Course Leading to -the Depeo,e, of'. 1 ;._. -~.-:-Tbe .,usual ,, . Classical Oouxs~,. inc~uding French ~q~- G.i:~rri):~n,. ;A.fter 1 ·sei?ho.:,:, · ~) · more year the work 1:s largely elec~r~e. ''. j, •• \ .• ,. ., •• 1 ·: .J ~ \_: 2., Course Leading to the Degr-ee·o:f B~. s:'~'lfhelmodern. ,. · .. languages are substit11ted for the ,an cten.t, and the amount of Mathemalics and English .studies is ·-increased. After the Sophomore yeal\ a large list of electives. 'is offered. 3. Course Leading to tb.e De gr.,ee ()f Ph.. B.-This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the on.ission of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. 4 General ()ourse Leading to ,t:Jle Degree of B. E!- This cour~e is intended to give tlle ,J!Ja;si.:s of an engineering edu- cation, including the fundamental J!.r::r,inciples of all ·special branches of the profession, a knowleBge of both F1·ench and German, and a full course iu :English_ ' 5. S~itary OouJ'Se Leading tc:. the Degree of B~ ~.­ This differs from course 4 in s-ubstitu-ting special work in Sani- tary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This di:fff'rS from course 4 in substitlLting .special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in pla:c e, <Jf some of tl:l.e General Engineering stn.dies. 'l'his cotuse is coffered in co-ope1·ation· with the Ediso:n General Electric Co:npaiJ.y. 7. Graduate Course in E11gineei~ing Leading to the Degi•ee of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses -in .Analytial Chemistry., Metallurgy and-Natural History. !For <~a.talogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RI,:PTON, Dean of the College, ·\' Schenectady, N.Y. DEPART1l1ENT OF JdEDIClljE. Albany Medical College.-~el'm·.C><()rnmences last Tuesday . in September. Four years strictly gr-acied course. Instructions by lectures, reeitations, laboratory ·work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Cli11ical advantages excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5.; a;~nual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $300 ; grad.uatio:nfee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., REgistrar, Albany, N.Y. . I '· ,•: .. • \'. < i W . h···e·n·- Y\ .. -ou· s·:···-u· ,, ... , • ~.' ' • '_ ' _' ~- -_ -.· _·.. ·.- > • : • • :. '. ~ ' ~-:J' . ~ '}: ·~· F urnitlire~ \; ···• i :i L(l<)k ·ds,.wh<'te-lDok h~re: ~ Compadson is out de!igh~, ,_ID'· ·.;; and the moreyqu kno·w abo·ut ·~ . ·.;;; ._ fu~11iture the·su-~;erw~:~ar.~ ·of. •. 00 ·· ..... -- .. ~'makin.g' ,. -~ ·~ale-. ,j~'u·.tjili~:ur·e·· rn . ._ f • . . . _ • .• . . ,·. .\ , .•• •for every use practica:l;_au~i--a:- ble and surprisingly !ow priced. · A. BROWN & SOJ\J, 302 .State st./ ·•. •· ... • '·r ':• • ' i . . \~!e~~~~~~~~%~~~\'~ ---c~· . ·--~ ·.\ . . . . .. ... ·$ • -- .• .• . .•. ::w~ . .. . . I' .. • . . . .!!i ~5'2Si5'2.Sc~.5'2.S2.!:2'\252~·. . i!l\ The Most Relia.bJe f•. . ~· ' • PATTON & HhLL~ 245 ST·.ATE ST.,. SCHENECTAD:Y, ~· Y. I' '-# · ~ ' ',. \'1 .··· DEPARTMENT OF LAW.'· ~ Albany Law School,___.:This ·department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a build- ing- wholly de-voted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each -year is di9'ided into two semesters. .. FOR HATS, CAPS, L. r· . CI 't.·\. ~t~i~Tfllf:M~i~ • . • .. ~ , •- ll 8, Expen.ses.- Matriculation fee~ ~·10 ~ tuitiou fee, \$100. For catalogues or other informatio11, ad<lr-ess .. AL\BAN\Y LA. W SCHOOL, INTOSHES, &c., Go_ TO Dunlap and Stetson ~Iats 2 27 s·TA· T E' s· T and Dent,s Gloves. · · · · · · • • NEWTOJS' FIERO, Dean. ALBANY, N. Y. · ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor. f ~- SCH!NECTlDT,. ~N. Y. --- --· ~-...----- ---- --- ----- -- ---·..-__;··----- - - -·- ------ ·---- C·' l 'I ,· ~. ~-'·. ' ... · . . •. •l;, .t ~ • ' .. •'. . . ·. :. . ~ • : .!, '. . • . • I ' ' .... . · ~- .. '•.'. . · ... ·· ' .. :· .. '~- ' J ·,_ ,· ... . . ;_

--ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 3 Interconegiate Caps a:m.d Gowns, COTRELL & LEOliARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. T'H:E STUDENTS OF UNION C,OLLEGE TAKE THEIR MEALS AT CLAPHJir\' .5 REST AU RANT, 148 JAY STREET. IS_r.)W~N p:>e)SSe)N'S TOl\SORIAL PARLOR, OPPOSITE VAN CURLER, Baths. Jay Street. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, .•. Wholesale and Retail ... Co~al and Wood. 0. G. CRAF'T & CO., COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTO!Jf TAILORS and READY lJIADE. Both Domestic a11d To reign Goods. Botham Carts. SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. STATE CoR. CENTRE. STATE CoR. JAY. JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. PURE MILK, etc. E. M. ROGERS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WHOLESALE c R OCERS, Lirne 9 Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, 306, 308 and 310 Union. 218 _ 222 State St. Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. Tobacco, Grain an.d Provisions. JOHN. KRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' T ..A..J:LOE. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-ma<le Suitlll and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''TilE OVEN'' RESTAURANT, BEST 2/5c DINNER IN THE CITY. OPEN D.AY AND .NIGHT. Ladies' and Gents' .Restawrant. 443 STATF. STitEET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y . SCHERMERI10RH & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. The Ten Eyck~ .ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and Eu1·opean Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill ioom Special Featares H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, oscAR J. GRoss, D.D.s., HoTEL KENMORE 156 JAY STREET, AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A.. M. TO 4 p. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

--·-·ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 3 Inter.cGilegiate Caps and Gowns, C. G. CRAFT & CO., ,COTRELL & ·LEONARD, ALBANY; N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. TH'E STUDENTS 0F 1 UNION COLLEGE TAKE TH,EIR MEALS AT CLAPHAM'S RESTAURANT, 148 JAY STREET. ~rJW'~ F>OSSON'S TOl\SORIAL PARLOR, OPPOSITE VAN CURLER, Baths. Jay Street. BARHYTE &. DEVENPECK, ... Wholesale and Retail ..• Coal and 'Wood. COR. MAiDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Botham Carts. SANDWICHES, all kinds. PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. STATE COR. CENTRE. STATE COR. JAY. JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. PURE MILK, etc. E. M. ROGERS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., WHOLESALE CROCERS, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers. ~·a~~~rf~~c~~l~,n. 218-222 State St. Schenectady, N, Y. Tobacco, G¥ain and P-rovi•ions. Jo . HN KRIDA LADIES' & GENTS' . ' 'J:' ..A..J:LOE. -----No. 101 Jay Street.----- Ladies' Tailor-made Suits and Jackets. Gents' Suits made to order. Clothing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. GO TO ''THE OVEN'' RESTAURAIT, BEST !Joe DINNEB IN THE CITY. OPEN DAY AND .NIGHT. Ladies' and Gents' .Bestau¥ant. 443 STATF. STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y . SCHERMERHORN & CO., GENERAL INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre - Streets. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S., 156 JAY STREET, The Ten Eyck, ALBANY, N. Y. POSITIVELY FIRE-PROOF. American and Eu1·opean Plan. Most Attractive Hotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCK'WELL & SON, AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same management.

4 ......-.----ADVERTISEMENT,S.-- Hotel V~od.om,e ·Just a word Refitted and Refurnished. Under New Management. Rates $2 and $2.50 per Day. • H. A. PECK, PROPR., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. To The Boy~ of 19 01-Z-3 and 41 .• ... CALL ON ... JI~GAFFEES •• FOR YOUR •• tonf~~tion~ry, To~,~~o 'd ~igar~. · 511 Union Street. • • • <9HE • • • Edisoo ~- HoteE, 88t1ENEGTADY, N. Y. Tke Largest atzd Best Appointed Hotel in the City. Headquarters for Sons and Friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. SNJlPPY l:fP-TO·BJlTE F00TWE}tft --AT·-- JOHN E. KOCH'S, to. the $5·.90 Shoe wearers \THE R.ALSTON HEA.LTH SHO·ES A. T $4.00\ were made to satisfy you, with water-proof soles and in all kinds of leathers. JOHN W. EMERY, POPULAR PRICED SHOEs: 321 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~.PI. W.ESTF~~~' :NEWSDEALER ~ STATIONER. Magazine and Periodical Department. IMPORTED AND DOMESTIC CIGAQS. TOBACCO OF ALL KINDS. 403 UNION ST:REET, SCHEl'lBCTADY, N. Y. TATES' BOJIT HOQSE. The Largest and Best Equl.p.ped in the , State. Excellent Dane in~ Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in con- nection with house. 29 FRONT STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oysters, Clams and Lobsters Served In All Styles. l1AHHATT AN KEST AQKANT AMI) L\INCH ROOM. 338 STA'TE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Meal Tickets Sold. Best Inducements to Students. Open from 5:30 A. M. to 1:00 .A.M. WOHLBERG & ZEISLER, Props. c. II. :Benedict, Hanager. 'I'ele.phone 3 35. MoNDAY, FEB. 4.-Maro, the Magician. 257 STATE ST.' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 6.-Je:ff De'Angellis, in ''The Royal Rogue.\ W. L. DOUGLAS SHOES, BEST ON EARTH $3.00 and $J.JO. THURSD.AY, FEB. 7.-\ The Still Alarm.\ SATURDAY, FEB. 9.-\ The City of New York.\

The Con.cordie11sis VoL. XXIV. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 31, 1901. No. 15. COLLEGE MEN IN JOURNALISM. Albert Shaw's Advice to Men Intending to Bnter the Profession. One of the finest lectures that has ever been listened to in the Union college chapel was afforded the friends and members of the institu- tion last Friday afternoon when the Hon. Albe1t Shaw spoke on ''College Men in Periodical Literature.\ Dr. Shaw in his capacity as editor of the \Review of Reviews,\ has had ample experience in journalism, and his remarks V\rere especially interesting on this account. Aside from his extensive n1agazine work, the speaker is the author of several books on sociology and economics and is regarded as an authority on municipal government. The chapel was well filled with an appreci- ative audience who showed their lively interest by frequent applause. In the absence of Dr .. Ray1nond, Dean Ripton introduced the speaker in a few well chosen remarks, referring to his ability as a writer and editor. Mr. Shaw said that at the present ti n1e the opportunities for young men are so varied that it is needless to lay down any specific rules to follow, but the best investment a young man can make is in himself-to develop what is in hitn. If a young n1an is left with a few thousand dol- lars, it is much better for him to invest it in higher education than to leave it at interest. In the end the former method will prove better for himself. Experience is a good investment in any pecuniary sacrifice. He should· not be afraid to risk his capital provided the matter is a reasonable one. The chief thing is to get a good foundation for his life work. The financial end is less important, but the fact remains that there are great compensations in a professional life. In schemes where money alone is involved, it is n1uch more wearisome to work. The pro- fessional man forms the advance guard of a social order that is yet to be. The young man of today should look forward to the Utopian theory, when he can be of benefit to his fellow men in e\rery way possible. The keynote of this age will be science, specialty and invention. There has never been a time when skill and special training counts for so much as at the present time, and now it may be said it is skill and not capital that breeds capital. A college education is to help active young men to prepare themselves for man's work. The problem of adjustn1ent is especially hard for juniors and seniors, some of whotn are at loss what to do and yet feel a responsibility regard- ing their life work. There are three views of the calling of writing and editing. First, that it is a make shift for those who can put sentences together and drift into this because there is no other place to go. Another position is that it is an inspiration. The third and correct view is that the calling should be one of deliberate counsel. One of the most itnportant things to consider in this calling is public opinion, which demands discussion of popular ideas. The newspaper man is the ser- vant of public opinion and his duty is to study this important subject. A college education fits a young man for journalism better than anything else. It teaches him to correctly express his views and to reason clearly. He should hold all the knowledge he can and endeavor to cultivate clearness, synlpa- thy and optimism. In college his studies should include subjects that will best fit him for the work such as English literature, history, phil- osophy and international law. If he can, a good plan is to travel. It broadens his views ·and gives him a better idea of the world. It is a fact that the best of modern books are the work of journalists. Daily newspaper work is hard, self sacrificing in spite of its fascination, and it is a good plan for a prospective journalist

6 THE CONOORDIENSIS. to spend a year or .so on a srnall country paper, since it gives hitn a chance to study public opinion by actual contact, and frorn the influence that such a paper may exercise on a community much good results. He tnay becotne a political leader frem the opportunities be gets l1ere, for his chances of getting into politics are n1uch better than a lawyer's. The great thing for a young rna n is to train his self respect. He must not be allured by larger salaries to get himcelf into congenial circutnstances. Newspaper wot·k offers but little leisure and is a hard life, but its importance is growing daily, and a young tnan properly equipped can make no mistake in following this line of work. At the close of his remarks, Mr. Shaw was given a 1~ousing college yell and the good will of all his listeners. RECOMMENDATION BY COUNCIL. A Resolution to be Offered at the Next College Meeting. The Undergraduate Council has been con- sidering means for facilitating elections under the new system and will propose the following scheme next Monday morning : ''It is 1·ecommended by the U nde1·graduate Council that all candidates for assistant man- agership of any athletic team, register their names with the secretary of the student body at the beginning of the season preceding the time of their election, and that these candidates shall be at the call of the managers of the associations for any reasonable work, and that two weeks before the date of election the secretary of the student body shall read all names that have been registered, and any name not registered before this two weeks' date shall not be eligible for nomination.\ You can aid the good feeling between the departn\lents by attending the University Stnoker. Have your room-mate go with you. .MJS,SION OF THE AMERICAN COLLEGE. The President's Lecture Before the Albany Historical and Art Society .. President Raymond delivered a lectut'e on '''The Mission of the American College,\ befo11e the members of the Historical Society of Alba11'Y last Thursday evening. Dr. Raytnond made a plea for tnore specific instruction in subjeots which will train the students of A n1erican coT- leges to fulfill the duties of citizenship and make them better citizens. He said that the spirit of Atnerican life is self- seeking. True citizenship tneans devotion to the common welfare. The great work of the future is the developm·ent of the spirit of citi2en- ship. Our prosperity great as it has been, has been due to individual efrort, each man vvorking for hi n1 self. To develop this spirit of citizenship is pre- eminently the work of the American col:lege. The universities are the home of liberal ideas They are the dread of Russian tyranny and Ger- tnan imperialism. The college is becotning a tnore \popular\ institution, in both senses :.>f the word. Twenty-five years from now a col- lege training will be the aim of every ambitious boy. The chief benefit derived from college traiB- ing is the ability to take broad views wbich Tesults from study of a variety of liberal arts. While education of this kind is rnore in1portant than any specific training it is not all-sufficient. In this specific instruction, studies relatin.g to the science of a governtnent should have a pro1ninent place. Such studies are sociol<>gy, economics, constitutional history and law, and diplomatic and consular duties. I-Iistory l>rop- erly treated, is in itself a liberal education in modern citizenship. The spirit as well as curricnlurn of the college has its effect in this training. In our universities and colleges this spirit is intensely democratic, which is as 1t should be and in touch with. the spirit of our national institutions. University Smoker, Friday, February 8.

THE O'ONOORDIENSIS. 7 OI{GANIZED LABOQ AND THE T:RUSTS. An Address by Dr. Jones Before the Labor Lyceum. Dr. Jones spoke to the metn bers <i>f the Labor Lyceum last Sunday afternoon on the al1-impo~t­ ant question of the relations that should extst between labor and capitaL A large audience listened to his remarks. He said in part: \I know of no tnore interesting subject than trusts. One can take either side of the question and still be partially in the right. '' I shall divide trusts into five groups and legislation and opinion should be decided by the kind of trusts. The first division I shall call the natural trust, the second the quasi-natural, the third the legal, the fourth capitalistic and the fifth the labor trust. ''A natural trust or monopoly is nothing more than qne tnade possible or .more easily possible by the fact that the comn1odity is limited in supply. Take for instance anthracite coal. It is found extensively only in Pennsylvania and a part of Maryland. Of course anthracite coal is found in other portions of the county but in small quantities. Therefore it is easy to found a tnonopoly of anthracite coal. \A quasi monopoly bears sotne resen1blance to a natural monopoly. A quasi-na~ural .tnon- opoly has need of an in1mense amount of capital to carry it on. The railroads are quasi tnonopolies, \A legal tnonopoly is a trust with which one can find but little fault. A holder of a patent or a copyright bas a legal monopoly. ''Capitalistic trusts are the worst of all. They are the pooling of interests in exchange. There is little or no argument to support tbem. Tariff aids all tnonopolies and trusts, but especially does it aid the capitalistic monopoly. ''Labor organizations are the tnost beneficial of all trusts. They partake of all the chat·acter- istics and have many of the evils of the other trusts. '~ Trusts have in view three objects. First to lessen the cost of reproduction ; second to con- trol the output ~~d thir~ to co:ptrol prices. The flrst obJect touches labor, for labor is about the greatest expense of production. The third object is to prevent flooding the market and to regulate t11e supply according to the demand. Concerning the third object, trusts can in many cases dictate prices, but they dare not go beyond a certain lim,it, for that would start competition. \ The advantages of trusts are n1anifold. They prevent a cut-throat competition. They have, however, made it impossible for an inferior to enter the field. They save a reduplication of labor, capital and material. The trust is a nor- nlal and natural result of present day civilization. They ~cannot be aboHshed for they thrive on anti-trust 'legislation. \The labor organization is a good thing. I believe in the strongest labor organization pos- sible. lt neutralizes many evils of the other trusts. The labor trust has all the character- istics of the other trusts. Labor trusts have, however, some evil tendencies and we should be on the lookout for them. Organized labor should be careful about trying to crush out individualism. Do not subn1erge the individual. I do not think it right to persecute the outsider. It is true that the trusts crush them. Popular opinion usually supports labor, but I do not think that it will if this is carried to extremes. This tendency is not wrong inherently but soci- ologically it is. Organized labor should guard against such things. The reason that we have outstripped England in commerce is because in Eno-land labor is so hedged about by laws. We t) '1 are going into their very markets. Another evt tendency is the strike. A strike should only be declared as a last resort, and should be conducted with regard to others rights, for public opinion will not uphold lawlessness. \I have outlined trusts and their objects. I think that the evils of the labor trusts are not inherent but caused by exterior circumstances.\ BASKETBALL TAX. It has been decided by a vote of the student body, to levy a $ro assessment on each of the four classes to pay for the initial expenses of the basketball five.

8 THE CONCORDIENSlS. DAY OF PI~A YE~ EXE~CISES. Dean Robbins of All Saints Cathedral Preaches to the Students. The Day of Prayer tor Colleges was fittingly observed at Union. The regular exercises were suspended for the day and the students and friends of the college asse,tnbled in the chapel at eleven o'clock to listen to an appropriate sermon by the Dean of All Saints Episcopal Cathedral. The president read a selection from Proverbs and the Rev. Mr. Zelie, the newly installed pastor of the First Reformed Church, offered prayer. Dean Robbins selected as his text, Isaiah 32: I, 2- '':::{ \Behold a king shall reign ~n righ_teousness, and princes shall rule in judgment. ''And a man shall be as an hiding place frotn the wind, and a covert from the tetnpest ; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.\ He said in part: 1 .. \I wish to speak in preface about onci\error people con11nonly rnake with reference ;f.& the function and results of higher criticism. ~ Some people are too conservative in religious t?ought. A sharp distinction should be drawn i,)etween that inspired by prejudice and that by:· reason, aided by all the resources of modern science and study. 'ro tne the latter is an infinite advance, fo1· now we have tnen thrilling with tbe divine idea that God lives in their hearts. \There are two distinct strains of M essiahanic prophecy. One is of a king of the house of David. In others we find the court of the ruler is distinctly in the background, and these we find uttered under the reign of a righteous king like Hezekiah. The prophecy I have read you this n1orning, as a matter of fact, falls under the second classification. The true translation, in a paraphrase, would substitute 'every man' for 'a man.' The prophet did not see the King Jesus Christ as you and I do. \With this explanation, we n1ay draw the primary lesson from the text. It is strictly applicable only to Jesus Christ, but the prophet beholds character in a broader sense. There is no higher aim possible in .the Kingdom of God than sanctified personality. We should ·con- stantly aim to perfect o.ttr character in the image of Jesus Christ. His: gospel teaches self- . realization. In mistaking the intent of the gospel of love preached by Christ, we often sacrifice ourselves too .much .. ''The question of the relationship between organization and the indiv:i:dual will be more clearly understood, if we realize that the true end is character. Then wefind organization is necessary, as personality consists in relation· ship. We are to aim at rigih.teousness, whereby we vivify the organization (i)f which we are a part. Yet the power of indi~vidual righteousness knows no limit, and this eaables us to strike at the heart of the problern confronting us in the existence of the many sects()[ ,Christian religion. ''Let us dwell on Isaiah~ 's picture-' Every man shall be as a hiding place from the wind and a covert from the tetnpest.' There are lowering clouds of speculati!>n. and doubt hover· ing over religious thought today. It were well for us today to be men (){ a victorious faith. Poverty stricken tnust a nan be, if he doesn't believe ~11 in his heart that he says he does. My plea i~ that whatever yo11 do believe, believe that with! all your heart. Erush your doubts away if you can, for othervvise they may choke your faith. Pray God to g~ive you strength to believe in sotnething with aJl your heart. \Have yo~ ever felt the unutterable thrill of true righteousness? Tt·y to show son1ething in your life beautiful, not marred and effaced by self-consciousness. The best way to show that life is worth living, is to exnibit this quality. \'Every man shall be as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.' If -we are to fulfill this prophecy, we should devel()p such a loyalty that men shall linger and strive to gain our friendship. By such loya.lty I mean, that in which a brother's character is as safe in that heart, as is the person's own. character. Make your friends justly- confident in you, and you will be approaching the ideal. we should all be striving after.\ University Smoker, Friday, February 8. ·\\ .. . ,;--

·\\ .. . ,;.- THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 ,. THE BASKETBALL TQIP. : MUSICAL ASSOCIATION T:RIPS. Captain Thebo's Men Defeated at Rutland ~: Lansingburgh and Albany To Be Visited and Fort Edward. in the Near Future. 1fanager Brown of the Musical Association has arranged for two trips to be taken by the clubs, and has several other dates under dis- cussion. A concert will be given at the Riverside Club in Lansingburgh on Thursday, February '1· A dance will be given the clubs at the conclusion ,, of the concert. The initial trip of the basketball five last week 1 , resulted in two defeats. Friday night, the Rut- land Y. M. C. A. five were the victors by a ,, score of 48 to 10. The Satterlee Hose Com- pany of Fort Edward, won out on the following 11ight with a score of 18 to I 2. As these were the first two gcnnes of the season, there is little reason for discouragement over the results. The week before Rutland defeated the University of Vermont by a larger .margin. The Satterlee Hose Company has a very strong five, as has been shown by her throughout the season. Rutland proved herself to be easily Union's superior, but Fort Edward was given a hard fight for the victory. The Hose Company gave the Union five a dance at the conclusion of the contest. THE RUTLAND GAME. RUTLAND Y. :M. C. A. Pierce. left forward. Whitcomb. right forward. Botsford. Stewart. Purdy. centre. left guard. right guard. UNION, Cronkhite. Thebo. Olmsted. Mallery. Anderson. First half. Goals-Pierce, 5; Whitcomb, 1; Bots- ford, 2; Stewart, 2; Cronkhite, 2; Mallery, 1. Fouls-Olmsted, 1. Second half. Goals-Pierce, 6; Whitcomb, 2; Botsford, 5; Stewart, 1; Thebo, 2._ Fouls-Whitcomb, 1. Score-Rutland Y. M. C. A., 48; Union, 10. THE FORT EDWARD GAME. SATTERLEE HOSE COMPANY. UNION. Ross. left forward. Cronkhite. Thebo. right forward. The bo. Lustig. centre. Olmsted. Montgomery. left guard. Mallery. Chapman. right guard. Anderson. First half. Goals-Ross, 1; Thebo (Satterlee), 1; Lustig, 1; Cronkhite, 1; Anderson, 1. Fouls- Olmsted, 1; Mallery, 1. Second half. Goals-. Ross, 1, Thebo (Satterlee), 2; Lustig, 2; F. M. Thebo, 2; Cronkhite, 2. Fouls-Olmsted, 2; Mall- ery, 1. Goals from fouls·-Ross, 2. Score-Sat- terlee Hose Company, 18; Union, 12. The annual concert at Albany will be given at Odd Fellows' hall on Saturday evening, March 9· Other dates will be shortly an- nounced. CHI PSI ALUMNI BANQUET. The fifth annual banquet of the Chi Psi Alumni Association of Northern and Eastern New York, was held at the TenEyck in Albany on Friday evening last. About seventy-five were present, atnong whon1 were many undergraduates from Williatns, Atnherst, Cornell, Han1ilton, Middlebury, Rut- gers, Wesleyan, Lehigh, Brown, Rochester and the entire Union chapter. At the business meeting before the banquet the following officers were elected for the ensu- ing year: President, Hon. W. J. Youngs, Albany; vice-presidents, Jatnes }l. Callanan, Schenectady; Dr. Henry W. Johnson, Hudson; Spencer Kellogg, Utica; secretary, Frank Cooper, Schenectady; treasurer, John R. Car-· nell, jr., Albany; executive committee, Frank B. Gilbert, Morgan B. Griswold, Neile F. Towner, E. C. Knickerbocker of Albany and Edward E. Draper of Troy. The following ahnnni of Union were present: Col. W. Fox, '6o; W. Scott Hunter, '68; W. C. Vrooman, '78; Frank Cooper, '93; A. 13. VanVranken, '96; T·. B. Brown, '98; J. C. Cooper, '97; P. L. Thomson, 1900; E. E. Draper, '97·

1() THE CONCORDIENSIS. Puoli\sk~d EfJery W'uk Du~i1er tke College Year, JJY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PORTER LEE MERRIMAN, 1901, - Editor-in-Chief H. A. BARRETT, 1901, Business Manager JOHN McNAE, 1901, - - Literary Editor ARTHUR S. GOLDEN, 1901, News Editor CHARLES P. WAGONER, 1901, Alumni Editor ARTHURS. RAYMOND, 1902, Asst. Bus. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. R. R. CRIM, 1902, J. D. GUTHRIE, 1902, D. C. HAWKES, 1902; A. H. HINMAN, 1902, W. E. HAYS, 1902. REPORTORIAL STAFF. A. H. KESSLER, 1903, 8. B. HOWE, JR., 1903, A. S. PECK, 1903, A. G. PICKENS, 1903, J. G. FENSTER, 1903, R. C. DONNA.N, 1903. CONCORDIEN SIS, Single Copies, TERMS: $2.00 per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 218, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second- class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 4:14: State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Don't forget the University Smoker at the A.lbany Press Club, Friday Evening, February 8. EvERY student in the university will receive, during this week, a card from the undergraduate smoker committee, eJtplaining the details of the Smoker which is to be held at the Albany Press Club on the evening of February 8. It is sincerely hoped by the committee and by others who have been instrumental in securing the privileges of the club for that evening, that the affair will be a suc- cess in every particular. Everything possible will be done to make the entertainment enjoyable to everyone attending. The students at Schenectady have a special duty to perfortn in regard to the smoker. It has long been desired that the feeling betw~en the several departments should be made stronger. The two banquets held at Schenectady · the pas·t two winters were an expression of that feeling. The professional students did not attend, for reasons that have been explained. It now remains for the college men to give a fuller expres- sion of their feeling by attending the smoker in a body. The expenses connected with going to Albany are light and, to many, much less than they would be at a banquet held in Schenectady. Good results, otherwise than a better feeling be- tween the departments, cannot help but come if everyone unites in making the affair a success. ''WE WISH to register another protest against the text- book system of this college. Why is it that in thts late day professors cannot make them- selves acquainted with the best text-books in their respective subjects and use these for at least two or three years in succession? It is impossible for anyone to allege that new and superior text-books are being published each successive year, thus making necessary or advisable this constant change of authors that we are compelled to experi- ence. Ou,r expenses are enough already without having added the cost of entirely new books each year, and at the same time having a source of revenue cut o:ff in the preclusion of the opportunity to sell our old text- books to 1nembers of the class that succeeds us. The present manner of conduct- ing this affair is unnecessary and a pitiful confe~­ sion of weakness on the part of the faculty, and it causes needless expense and injury to the students. We say, have the text- books and use them for more than a year, at any rate.\ In such a plaintive manner an esteemed con- temporary in a near-by college champions the cause of the oppressed undergraduates of the insti- tution whose name it bears. The editorial is copied here-not to commend the sentiments it ex- presses, but rather to illustrate the queer views that some men retain after having had three years or more of college life. We had always supposed that college text-books were things to be prized- rather than to be sold or bartered at a small frac- tion of the original price. We are hardly willing to believe that students of that college would be i 'I ,· f ·: '\ ', ~:.

i 'I <' f ', ~:. THE C()NOORDIENSIS. 11 able to p.ass creditable examinations in subjects finished a few months before, if the ideas expres~ed in the editorial were carried out. Not that we would adv.ocate such a system, but rather that we i would emphasize the fact that the great major.tty of college te:xt-books have a larger field of useful- ness than is ofttimes ,granted them. We sh0 -wld say that the faculty of this near-by college are doing a I very proper thing in crushing out s1.1ch ideas as a:ppear to exist. Such a sentimen.t, happily, exists only in a modified form at UnLon. Several members of the faculty, by short remarks upon the subject once a term, are doing rn:uch toward getting rid of it entirely. THE \World Almanac'' for 1901 contains a .. n unusually Ja,rge amount of college and university statistics which are interesting by reason of the comparisons that may be drawn :from them. The table of financial statistics is perhaps the most interesting. According to it, the productive funds of Union college amount to $546,174, 11er receipts fr()tn benefactions during the past y-ear have been $29,368; and her total income, inclu<iiug tuition and incidental charges, has been $118,73~. The latter, of course, includes the money recei-ved from the sale of the University Place property. Persons doubting the financial stability of Undon. would do well to compare these figures with th:.ose of other colleges of relatively the same size in this part of the country. Hamilton bas the productive funds to the amount of $511,000; Bowdoin, of $66(),. 416; Hobart, of $445,016; Middlebury, of $370,000; Rochester, of $738,573, and Vermont, of $317,602. Colgate is better cared for, as she possesses $l,- 500,000. So also, is Amherst, with $1,600,00(); Wesleyan, . with $1,370,840; and Williams, with $1,100,000. The receipts from benefactions also afford inter- esting comparisons. During the past year Amherst has received nothing in this manner; Bowdoin, $9,200; Colgate, $35,126; Hamilton, $39,000; Hobart, $15,000; Middlebury, $73,520; Rochester, $35,501; Vermont, $68,300; Wesleyan, $100,000; ar1d Williams, $22,110. It may well be remembered that the in.beritance tax on the Armstrong beq1.1est to Union of $150,000 has not yet been paid, and that a recent decision of the courts returned to Union. $30,000 worth of property formerly given ,to Long Island city. It might be well, also, to glance at the total income statistics for the past year, which are as follows: Amherst, $104,000; Bowdoin, $72,000; Colgate, $108,943; Hamilton, $70,000; Hobart, $35,- 347; Middlebury, $24,483; Rochester, $43,896; Ver- mont, $75,243; Wesleyan, $99,540; and Williams, $114,900. Last June, at the alumni dinner, Treasurer Harroun made the announcement that Union college was entirely free from debt. Coupled with all these figures, this statement should and has renewed the confidence of many alumni in the col- lege. Union has seen more prosperous days at· present, but few with a brighter outlook. We venture to suggest that alumni who are always asking why some other alumnus, rich in worldly goods, doesn't give Union a few hundred thousand dollars or so, should question themselves as to how they have helped the institution. Have they sent their sons to Union? Very many have. Have they advised other men to send their sons to alma mater? Many have done so. Have they considered the good results that would come to Union if the plans for remodeling South College were carried out and have they sent a check or pledge, proportionate to their ability, to the treasurer of the fund? Many have, but very many have not done so. Alumni, the college is deserving of united, prac- tical support. Won't you do what little you can to 'd \t? at 1 • BASEBALL MANAGEQS. At the college meeting Monday morning, Gardiner Kline, 1901, was elected to the vacancy in the baseball managership and Lestet· W. Bloch, 1902, to the assistant managership. Mr. Bloch will succeed to the managership in his senior year. The 7 : ro train will get you in Albany in time for the University Smoker.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. COLLEGE MEN IN THE· INAUGURAL PARADE. A Novel Sight Expected in Washington March 4. A distinctive feature of the second inaugura- tion of President McKinley, if plans now under way fulfill their early pron1ise, will be a large representation of the colleges and universities of the United States in the line of the parade for the first tin1e. An inter-collegiate com- mittee has addressed invitations to the presidents of n1ore than 400 Arnerican institutions of learning requesting that delegations be sent. It is expected that each college or university will have a distinctive unifonn and banner and that the result will be a pleasing addition to the other details of the parade. The suggestion is made that tnass meetings be held throughout the country for the purpose of interesting college men in the. project. The first mass meeting of this kind was held in Washington two weeks ago at the Colutnbia university, when graduates frotn the leading universities spoke to ap assemblage of resident college men. College clubs and societies are expected to cotne as delegations. The participation will be strictly non-partisan. There will be no limit to the size of each delegation, but each body shall be unifortned or decorated so as to display its college colors. Freedom is given to introduce unique features characteristic of college life. Delegations should perfect themselves in tnarching either by colutnn, figures or changing their formation while in line of march. One large banner should be cat·ried in front of each delegation. Cheering will be .confined exclu- sively to the time when the respective colleges are passing the President's reviewing stand. Each delegation will be permitted to give only one cheer. Horns or other instrutnents, for the purpose merely of n1aldng a noise, will not be allowed in the parade. It is requested, how- ever, that bands be brought frotn as tnany colleges as possible. The local committee will make all arrange- ments necessary for accornodation of institutions signifying a purpose to be represented. The railroads will give a special tate to college dele .. gations. ALPHA DELTS ENTERTAIN. Enjoyable Dance Given Friday Evening. Alpha Delta Phi gave one of her very pleasant 1·eceptions and dances at her l1ouse last Friday evening. Several out-of-town guests were pres .. ent, as well as many from town and college. Zeta furnished delightful music throughout the . even1ng. The patronesses were : Mrs. Samuel B,. Howe, Mrs. J. A. DeRemer and Mrs. Hubbell Robinson. Frotn out-of-town were : Miss Bousfield of Bay City, Michigan; Mrs. F. P. Palmer of Ogdensburg; Miss Lawrence of Quo- gue ; Miss Stover of Amsterdam ; Miss Kline of Atnsterdam ; Miss Shreve of Cooperstown ;. Miss W a. goner of Albany ; Miss Minter, Vassar, 1902 ; Miss Payn of Albany ; M. T. Bender, 1900, of Albany ; F. P. Palmer, '97, of Ogdens- burg; Clarence and J at11es Stewart, 1900, of Amsterdam, and W. A. Johnson, '97, of Pala- tine Bridge. Frotn town were : Dr. F. R. Jones, Prof. J. I. Bennett, Frank McClellan,. Lee Case, Hubbell Robinson, John Alexander, Peter Stnith, Cornell rgoo ; Allen Patterson, Dartmouth '98 ; Prof. Eddy, Prof. Opdyke, T. J. Leavenworth, eK-1901; Dr. Ashmore.; Misses Kriegsmann, Dtn·ler, Walker, Alex .. ander, Button, Miller, Stnith, Fuller, Schuyler, Case, Horsfmyer, Linn, Whitlock; Weed, Golden, Merriman, 1901 ; Woolworth, Robet·t Yates, Bothwell, Stiles, Hawkes, Small and Griffith, 1902. BASKETBALL WITH VEQMONT. Manager Thebo of the b~sketball five has arranged a gatne with the University of Ver- tnont for Monday evening, }\'ebruary 1 I. The · contest will be held at Fort Edward, under the auspices of the Satterlee Hose Company. .. 1

.. 1 THE OONCORDIENSIS. 13 THE ALUMNI ·COLUMN. Interesting News About :Union Graduates. TEz:ery alumnus and underg-raduate of Urtion is in- vtt~d to. send ~o th;e A l1fmni Editor items of inter- est/or znserhon zn thzs department. News of a personal ·nature, aboztf any alumnus, will be gladly r~ceived and printed.] Wifl the class secretaries of '41, '51, '61, '71, '76, '81, '86, '91,. '96 and '98, kindly communi- cate Viith the Editor-in-Chief? The Concordi- ensis desires to do everything in its power to further interest in the approaching comtnence- ment reunions. '48.-Last Saturday's ':'New York Evening Post,'' which published a ·con1prehensive review of the nineteenth century, contained an able artic:le on \The Itnm-utahilitJ of the Constitu- tion,.\ by Charles C. Nott, LL. D., chief justice of the United States Court of Claitns. '5~ .-!he death of Dr. Eliphalet Nott of Rex- ford's Flats occurred Jan. 21. Dr. Nott was a grandson of Union's famous president of the .. satne name, and graduated frotn the institution in I 854· He soon after obtained 'the degree of M.D. and took up the practice of n1edicine in Bro·<>klyn. After several yea 1·s there he removed to Rexford's Flats where he spent the greater part of his life. He 1·esided about a mile fro~ the village and of late yemAs he has led a retired life.. Dr. N ott was in his 67th year. President Raytnond read the funeral services. '54.-. M'ajor Austin A. Yates has at his 1·equest, been retired frorn se1·vice in the Second Regin1ent. l-Ie is a veteran of the civil war and l1as for twenty years been. connected with the National Guard. 'The \Daily Union\ speaks edit()rially of his service as follows : '' '.rhe retirement of Major Austin A. Yates of the Second regiment means the passing fron1 active tnHitary service of one of the most popular and best known men who ever served in the National Guard of New York state. He assutned the rank of captain in the guard when the 'Thirty-sixth Separate cotnpany was mustered into .state service and for years he worked faith- fully, not only for his own cotnpany, but to obtain appropriations for repairs for the old armory~ and later on for a handsome sum for a new structure. When the Second regiment was organized, Captain Yates, because of his long and faithful service, was .at once made a major. It was a promotion that was deservedly popular. ''Major Yates' efficiency as a military rna n has not alone been recognized in his own city, but throughout the state at large as well. He is one of the very .few Separate :eotnpany captains who ever occupied the chair of president of the New York State National ·Guard association ' an honor rarely bestowed upon an officer below the rank of colonel. He a1so was, while a member of the legislature, chairman of the mili- tary committee, and as such did a great deal of good for the guat~d. His rnilhary career is one in which he can justly have pride, and his many friends are as proud of it as h.e is himself.\ '56.-Professor Geo1·ge W •. Hough of Evans- ton, Ill., who was formed y director of the Dudley Observatory, has been honored by the Chicago Astronotnical Society by having his life-sized portrait in oil presented to the Dear- born Observatory by the Chicago Astronotnical Society. '60 and '78. -Charles E. :Paterson, '6o, and Seymour Van Santvoord, '78, are directors of the Rensselaer County Bar association ·which was incorporated last week. '67.- J. Newton Fiero was elected a n1ember of the cotnmittee on \Law Reform,\ for the Third Judicial District of the N. Y. State Bar Association. '83.-Prof. C. E. Franklin of Albany, was elected president of the State Training Class Teachers' association at a tneeting which was held at Syracuse, recently. '83.-Prof. C. E. Franklin of Albany has been making addresses on educational topics at various places throughout the state. He recently addressed teachers at Hudson., Atheris and Syra- cuse. Prof. Franklin prese!lted a thesis before the Graduates' club of Columbia university, January 8. '93.-The holiday number of \New York Education\ contatns an article on \The Studies

14: THE OONCORDIENSIS. Preliminary to the Medical School\ by George Howard Hoxie, A., M., of Zurich, Switzerland. '98.-Roger D. Sinclair is on the staff of the \ Daily Herald\ of Los Angeles, California. Law.-· Captain George S. Tuckerman died January 18, in Jamestown, N. Y., at the age of seventy-six:. He studied law in the office of Willia1n l-l. Sewa1·d, and vvas graduated from Yale and fron1 the first class of the Alhanv Law School. For two years of the civil war, he was an officer in Berdan's regitnent of sharp-shooters, and after the war was for a thne an assistant corporation counsel in New York city, and later editor of the ''Rochester Detnocrat and Chronicle.\ COLLEGE CALENDAQ. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY I. 7 ;oo P. M.-Bible Class at the Y. M. C. A. rootns, \'Studies in the Life of Christ.\ Mr. Clements leader. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 3• 5 :oo P. M.-Vesper service. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4· 3 :30 P. M.-Meeting of 1902 Garnet Board. 7 :oo P. M.-Instrumental Clubs rehearsal. 8:15 P.M.-Banjo Club rehearsal. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5· 7 :oo P. M.-Glee Club rehearsal. 7 :r5 P. M.-Y. M. C. A. service. 8 :oo P. M.-Adelphic meeting. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6. 7 :oo P. M.-Phi'lotuathean meeting. 7 :oo P. M.-Glee Club rehearsal. 8 :oo P. M.-Bible Class at the Y. M. C. A. rooms. \Studies in the Acts and Epistles.\ Mr. Metzger, leader. The ba ~eball managetnents of Harvard and Princeton have been unable to arrange for any games next spring between the two universities, as the latter detnanded three dates. By com- plying with this request, Ha1·vard c lailns that she would not be able to arrange her other games. CAMPUS NOTBS. Beadle has been elected historian of the fresh- man class. Seni:or class con1mittees haYe been announced asfollows,; Class book, W. E. VanWormer, L. S. Benton, A. S. Golden; ,cap and gown, T. H. Wight, R. E. Argersinger, L. L. Sutner- iski. Show your University spirit by attending the University Sn1oker. Cornell's crew for J90I will have but three of the old men. They expect however to have a strong crew as the new ~material is very prom1s1ng. IT VAY.S ST\IDENTS Of \\INION\ TO TRAJ)f WITH \J.S. A special discount of I 0% on TOOTH BRUSHES, HAIR ~BRUSHES and PERFUMES to all ''Union\ men. ti~R.STMANH' S 17HI1RMIICI, W. l'L Bailey, Mgr. Opp. Post Qffi.ce. WHY HOT DRESS WELL 1 Suits and Overcoats IOU CAN DO IT EASIL T. Custom or Ready-Made. TOUR CREDIT IS <iOOD. Marcus Saul, MEYER LEHRBERG, Mgt. 417 STATE ST. A. R. ZITA'S ORCHESTRA. Albany's best orcbest1·a. Guaranteed the best in the state. .Any number pieces desired. Address all communications to A. R. ZITA, ALBA~Y, N. Y .. Tl1e \Janet\ Waltzes, the Prettiest Ever Published. ' i . ' ;{ J :,I ~l fj ~' ', :f ~J~ I j I

I j I THE OONCORDIENSIS. 15 $23 030 Our GJand $25,000 Ornithological Contest. Something entirely new and interesting. Read what you are to do. You may get 1,000 dols. Our contest is to see who can make the largest list Of names (or kinds) of birds from the fol- lowing Hst oJ letters: WDOOOCCKQULIAPRTARIDG BSPNIELVBBRDIMWADOHTL We will recognize as a bird anything belonging to the feath- ered tribe, whether it be a Hen, 'Crow, Singer or auy other kind. You can use any letter as many tines to make a. name as it ap- pears in the list of letters abov(l; for instance, Woodcock, Plover, Snow Bird, etc. ~l'o any person who can make a list of ~5 or more different names of bi1.1ds, we will give absolutely FREE' a beautiful prize, value 1,00@ dols. or less. BIG PHIZES AWAHDED DAILY. \Vhen you have made out your list fill out the Une on the bot. tom of this advt, and send to us with a Stam:ped Addressed Envelope, stamp of your country will do; then if you are a 'A\ arcl'ed a prize you can, if you desire. get the prize by becom- ing- a subscl'iber to The Woman•.s World. \\Ve shall award a prize to eveJ.'Y person who sends the name of 25 :Birds, and our gifts will be as follows : For the 1>e~t list, received. each day, a Gold Watch ; for the second best solution each day, a beauti- ful imported Tea Bet: for the seven next best solutions each day, a Konrah Bakih Diamond a..nd Ruby Hing; for the next best solution, a Gold Piece; and f()r all other correct solutions, Prizes of Good Value. These prizes will be for\rarded daily ; you will not! have to wait a long- tim.e in uncerta nty before you know the result. There is no element of lottery in our plan. It makes no difference -whether vve get your solution late or early in the day. All you need is to mail this advt. to us, and on tb e day it yeaches us, if your :list is the best, you shall have the Gold Watch, or if second best., the beautiful 'rea ~et, and so on. We guarantee th.at we will award you a prize. There is absolutely no opportunity for deception on our part-we can- not afford it. We want to get 1,000,000 well satisfied subscrib- ers, and for that reason we don't -want you to send any money until you know exactly what prize you have gained by answer- ing the puzzles. As soon after 4 p. m. each day as possible, the examiners will judge the lists to the best <lf their ability, and will designate the prizes. We will write to you at once notify- ing you what prize has beP.n awar~e~ to you; then if you are satisfied, you can send your subsc.nptwn to The JVoman•s Worltl and your prize will go by return <>f mail carriage paid. 'l'o a person of narrow ideas it seems hnpossible that we should be able t() make such a gigantic offer, but we have the money, brains and reputation. We know exactly what we are doing, an.d if we can legitimately gain a million subscribers by this grand idea we know that this million of well plea.sed subscrib- ers can. be induced to recommend The Woman's W•rld to all friends, thereby building up our circulation still further. w·e are willing to spend .25,000 dols. in. this contest in build inc up a big subscription list, and when this money is spent we reserve the right to publ sh a notification that the contest has been dis- continued. Don~t delay until it is too late. '.rhe contest will continue until July 1st, 1901. We give a Bonus Prize of 250 dols., independent of all otherR, to the person who E'\ends in the li~t gotten up in the best and ha,ndsomest manner. Our committee will decide and award prizes daily, but the special250 dols. prizes will be awarded in September, 1901. Any bird's name found in the dictionaries accepted. WHO WE ARE. The \Woman's World,, is a thoroughly reliable concern. We are known to do ex:actly as we advertise. As to our re- liability we refer to any Advertising Agent or business man of London or New York. N AM;£ ........................................................................................................................................ . S T R E E T ................................................................................................................................... . TOW·N ...................................................... COUNTRY ...................................................... . N. B.- Be careful and prepay yo'll.r letter 5c, as we do not re- cei-ve underp~id letters. Add.I'ess:- TH:E ''WOMAN'S WORLD,\ BRENTFORD, LONDON, W. ENGLA.ND. NE,W E.DITION Webster's * -,z - i*M'FW'**' Int e.rnational D , • t'!'· rv ee rz .•. tc ,l.OJ)Jl!:Y - NEW PLATES THROUGHOUT 25,000 Ne-w- Words Ph.r.a.ses and Definitions Prepared under the direct supervision of W. T. HARRIS, Ph.D., LL.D., United States. Commissioner of Education, assisted by a large corps of competent specialists and editors. Rich Bindings. 5000 Illustrations. 2364 Pages. BETTER. THAN EVER. FOR STUDENTS' USE. We also publish We~ster's Colle_giate Dictionary w1th Glossary of Scott1sh Words and Phrases. \First class in quality, second class in size.\ NICHOLAS MURRAY BUTLER. Specimen pages, etc. of both books ~~ sent on application. ~ G. & c. MERRIAM co., ' WEBSTER'S Publishers, hN11BRNATIONAL S . c· td M nicTioNARY pr1ng 1e , ass. - S. R. JAMES, 202-204 STATE ST. SO::e:El.'TEOT.A..D-y\ ~- -y\ CROCKERY, GLASSWARE, FURNITURE OF ALL KINDS, HOUSEFURNISHING GOODS, LAMPS, BRIC-A-BRAC, ETc. Sporting Goods! Base Ball Supplies, Golf Goods and Athletic Suits. Cameras and Photographers' Sundries Specially Made of Warranted Cutlery. ---AT·--- J. A. RICKARD & CO.'S., 253 STATE STREET. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

16 -----ADVERTISIDMENT'S.-__._ PI «.l{f·OI{D BRO~ .. , \ Union Market.'' ·oealers in All Fres:h Meats and Poultry. Game in Season. Zeltphone 38-F. 602 UNION, COR.. BARRETT ST. ~ PRATT TEACHERS' AGENCY Recommends college a.nd normal graduates, specialists, and other· teachers to colleges, public and private schools and families. Advises parents about schools. WM. 0. PRA.TT, Manager. 1o Fi.tth Ave., New Yorlr. CLASS PIPES Original Designs In tb.e Guaranteed Our Rook on Pipes for the asking. -a-C)Fl:r\I ~T~rJ~~Te>N, Importer and: :Manufacturer. 217 Walnut St. PHILADELPHIA, PA. CHAS. BURROWS, Fine Stationery, Office Supplies, Rubber Stamps, Picture Framing, Printing, etc. 410-414 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SWENY SPORTINC Cooos Co. '72 State St., ALBANY, N. Y. Co:rv.tPLETE LINE. BEST QUALITY. 73 STATE STREET. ALBANY, N. Y. GYM:NASI11M SUITS. A THLE'I'IC GOODS. Buy your Camera Supplies of Pinch S: Hahn, 304 State Street. LA.B.GEST STOCK. :LOWEST PRICES. 110N BRAND TRADE MARK ATHLETIC ROBES LOUNGING ROBES BATH ROBES FOR SA.LE IN SCHENECTADY BY Schenectady Clothing Co. -AND- ·wood Brothers.

--ADVERTISEMENTS.------ 17 SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WOR~KS. AN EASY WAY TO EARN $25.00 / We will pay this to anyone sending us 20 new yearly sub- scriptions. a c co m - panied by the 1\ull yearly price 'for each subscription. •• •• •• Send two cent stamp for prospectus. sam- ple copies and par- ticulars •• • ••••••• OtitinB Publishing Co. 2j9 Fifth Ave., N.Y. THE LA.RGEST AND HANDSOMEST JEWELRY STORE IN THE STATE. S.IMJ PE.IRSON & CO., BROADWAY&. SECOND ST., TROY. N. Y. The Finest Goods and the Lowest Prices. § LOCOMOTIVES - - - = = - = - - - - - - = = - of Standard Designs for all classes of service, or from designs furnished by railroad companies. Annual Capacity, 450. W. & L. E. GURLEYl @··~~··® 514 Fulton St., TROY, N.Y • . Largest Mannfactnrers in America I • I • ... or Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealer.s in Drawing Instruntents and Matert\als. Union gollega Book ~tore. ·~· -- -- All College Texts, and Com- plete assortment of Pencils, Note Books, Fine Stationery, etc. A limited number of the SoNGS OF ''OLD UNION.\ ROOM 6, SOUTH COLLEGE.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTB. -- ::'THE WORDEN REST~UR~H'T Electric Ligk:.ling Apparatus. Elt!ciric Railway A ppt~ralus. Eteciri'c Powtl!r Appilratus. Electric Tra-;ns1nission of Power. Sales offices in all the large cities of the United States. General Electric Co. SOIIENEOT ADY, N.Y. Headquarters for Novelty Suiti RIJ'S. Special attention always given to students by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. WRICHT, KAY & Co. Manufacturers ef High-Grade Frater- nity Emblems, :1!'1·aternity Jewelry, :Fraternity Novelties, Fraternity Pro- grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- nity Announcements, Frate1·nity In- vitations. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. :1.4:~·:1.42 Woodward A:ve., DET:ROIT, ltCIOH. Union Clothing Co. ALBANY, N. I. f~LL 5TOCK COMPLETE. Agen-ts for the '' Stein- Bloch Clothes. '' Best in the World. f~RNISHI'N(tS, HATS, ETC:.. Ten p&l' cent reduction to Students.- Vrsxr;r THB U:NION. CHAS. KI:EFFER, Prop. 2'58 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3'-.50. Schenectady, N. Y The Finest Table Boar~ In The City. Open from 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. Union's Taillor~ 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. Best Bi:lliaTd and Pool PC£'1'lorlf in the City. :::5!.a.tes .$.2. 50 Por ::t:'ay a:o.CL \C\J?\W\&%'<5.. Troy Hotel ·Corporation, Prop1\ietors. TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock of Monarch and High Pric€d Gents' Shoes. High Grade :Merchant Tailor- ing. Only fh.·st-class men employed. 'MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N .. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real Estate Dealet·. J. A. CRAMER. W. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 2t Tickets, $3.00. l.44 South Oent:re St. BON BONS Huyler's .. •• AND .... CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Dru~s. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State· St., Cor. Centre. SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

·. . . . .;... ... \':~h----'\\'\\\''\'':..~~-~~*j.\,.,.~.::.· ...... .3>.i-;¥'.;:- .• .,- ...... ::- .... ~~+~;~~~·,;<...,~.:~\\-'\>'~0.;...\\'\\\\\·•'\'\\\~'~'\\\\\\~-..- ... ~.....:.....-.;.~~~~:;:;;;;;;::;::::::::======~!!l 18 --ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Sales offices in all the large cities •••• of the United States . -- - ' .... \ ·, .) < .. ' - I, /.A •••••. -~- - --'!-'_..___, - - -~·- . ------ Elerlric Light-iug i Appa1·atus. El~ctric General Railway Appa1·alus. Electric El~clric Power Co. Appat·atus. Electric Trans1nission of Power. ~ --~~-. ~CI -IE::.\ BCTADY, ~. Y. Headquarters for fi ov,elty Suitings. Special attention always given to Rtudents by c. COETZ, TAILOR, 3 Central Arcade. SCEENECTADY, N. Y. ---------------------- --------------·- W ~Ja.nufaetarer~ of H i~-rh-G rade Frater- RICHT, nity Emblf'rn:o~, Fraternity Jewelry, Fr:,it<'nlity ~ovt>ltit\\s, Fraternity Pro- K & C g-rams, FTateruity Stationery, Frater- A Y 0. nity A:mwuneements~ Fratemity In- vitationt;. Send for Catalogue and Price-list. Special designs on application. 140-142 WoodwaTd Av~., DETROIT, JJTICJI. ------ Union Clothing Co. ALBANY, N. Y. FALL STOCK COr\17LETE. Agents for the \Stein-Bloch Clothes.\ Best 1n the \V\orld. fQRNISHIN<:iS, HaTS, ETC:.. Ten per cent reduction to Students.- VISIT THE UNION. CHAS. KIEFFER, Prop. 258 STATE STREET, 21 Meals $3.60. Schenectady, N. Y The Finest Table Board In The City. Op2n. f1•om 6 A. M. to 8 P. M. - ___ - __ - __ - ___ - __ - __ -:-::-::-~=:::_c7e.-:::-:-.c_-_-:~=-~:========== Union's Tailor .. 35 MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY, N. Y. ------------ ~- ------- ------ ------ ----- TROY JulOOSE, J:t>st Dilliard ati-d Pool Pa'l·lor . ., in the City. ~a.tes $2.5 0 For :Ca.7 and. \''\J?\\t'C\'a.rd.. Troy Hotel Corporation, Proprietors. TROY, N. Y. Complete Stock of Monarch and High Priced Gents' Shoes. Hi~h Grade Merchaat Tailor- ing. Only first-class men employed. MAX SCHMIDT, 263 STATE STREET, SCHENF:CTADY, N. Y. Mackintoshes made to order. Real E::;tate Dealer. J . .A. CRAMER. ·w. KLINGLER. CRAMER & CO., GENERAL PAINTERS, 16S Clinton Street, Schenectady, N.Y. STUDENTS' DINING ROOM. First Class Meals. 2t Tickets, $3.00. ~44: South Centre St. :.:: -_ -_ --=~-----.=::::-.=:-:-.:==------ .. =-----= -========= BON BONS Huyler's • •• AND ••• CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. The Finest Cigars and the Purest of Drults. AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 State St., Cor. Centre. ScHENECTADY, N.Y. .. . ' . ~' .. _:~· .. ~';'_ ~ '· ~· -~ '. 1/' •. ',· .. \ \ ': . ~. . . • <' / < . ; . :' . ' . .~ . .,. ~- . i', i I , ,, .. . ·.\ ,.. \ .. ·. '.

. ' . ~' ·~· ._~';'_ ~ '· ~· -~ '. 1/' •. '< < \ . \ ': ' ~. . . . ' .. . .~ . .,. . ,• / < ,.. \ ' ' I • •, ~- ' 'i '. ~ .. ~- •, .. . ' . .. ; ~: . . . • j •, ' ' . : ' . ~ \ .. .. i~.f_.~_J.:~: ·, __ . ~'.. ··ADVERTISEMENTS.---- ---------- .. • . .,.,.•I~ -- ~. . - . •. f_-. _J '\• _··_ .•. :... - • - -I ' ·,·' ,' ~~-· \ ' ' ' ' ' . ' ... :····! )'' ... · r.·· _.[• ~:.:\';- ;\ ' .I ·.· 'v Cft~S. Holtz.m.ann s·· E' M' .. l.'I·:>· ·' · · · ·... > ·· .· · · · ·~ · . , <r et . Carrie~ the 'Largest and Bcst Ltne of ·· . . ·.· ·.·., .·· ·., .. ·. •· ... ·' .. . . . . . ,. ' ' .. ·· .. 1 ,. 1 .-._. t·t..·· .... · · ... ·.-&--~;_lJ_:,.; ::~.· ··b·:·'. ii 11 . A .• ME~ S FURNISJII~G- GOODS, \J n nmg -.anu rtrntS.·tito:~~U~ .. · .. ' .. SOLE AG~~T FOR • · ... ' .' • t • ' • ' • ~ THE REGA:L .SI{()E·~: IN THIS CITY. ·'Students are entitled t0 a ten pet cent. discount. ' ' .... 2-59 ·.state St. SOIIENEC'T_A_DY, N. Y. 34-36' MAIDEN LANE. ALBANY .. N. Y. ' ,· Skates, Hardware, · lil!OTJEla ~.a ~!e~T~lQl~·dltiNl'fll. Bicycles; 413 STAT~ ST-~EE·T: {' i S.CHENE·CTADY, N.Y. Broad way and Maiden Lane, .f\.LBAt:fY, N.Y. . ~ . .. tr.J;NTLEMEN ON·L T. 2.50 RO·OMS. . LADrE:;' RESTAURANT ATTACHED. . -·· .... . 4. • ~ _, I WILLIAM H. KEELER, PROP. ANNEx-··· so7. & .so9:BRoAnWAY~ ~·~-~~·~~~~~~Q,@>Q,@Q;@>~~ ~· DOBERMA-NN'~ ... ~ , .ICE -C'REAM A·ND ICES .~ ~ • I · . . I . Are Abs()lutely Pure. ~~ 23S Sta;te St. SCHENJ;:CTADY, N.Y •• I ~~~~~~~~J_(j>Q,@Q,(y);>@Q,CYQ;@>~ ' . . PETER. TIERNEY, --AGENT FOR-- - . ' ·. ' ( . ~~rdner, ·Ito tie·~ goo laundry, . ,. - . .. ~ . . . .. '. ( . . ' . ~J07 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY,~- Y~ l . • l FRIEDMAN BRO·s., Wholesale Dealers in SouTH~JtN PRon~cE, BurrER CHEESE, . ' . I I . EGGSI FRESH FI~H. OYSTERS, CLAMS, ETC. y' :1'. • r' ' ' • ' ----''L-------.l.-'-- - ,:. \\'. '. Potatoes a Speclait#···.· ... , . 102 So. Centre St. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Telephone 4:5. ... FINE•COLORED SIIIRT~ ' .~ F'OR MEN ...... · Beautifully made shirts, fine as custom rnade goods, all the finest materials and ·choicest pat- terns, s.kiUfully·cut for perfect fitting. We make a specialty of only the best goods in our Men's Furnishing-Goods Department. Full lines of the latest requisites for men's use. Exclusive styles and lowest p-rices. .II. S. BARNEY· & CO. Boots and Shoes Repai1·ed. We respectfully request th·e patronage of the students., First-class workmanship. Moder- ate price's. · · · 422 Union St., B lVI ARK Schenectady, N. Y. . · • i · · : •' *' * * laterer and leotaurctt~uro I LEE W. C:A,SE. ESTABLISRED·l8!W F~ W.McCLELLAN· I' • J:,j:J-v-:t O~SE & 00.~ .• Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works, Steam Heating, Plumbing, Metal W-ork . : WARREN STREET. SCHENECTADY, N.

. ' ·. .J, : '. '·: ....... . . , .· ~·r:.. ·. : ~\~ ... -·. . .. .. · .. . ' .; .. ~ . . . . . - \ • 'II t (' • .. ro .... ~ .. '~- 1 • ,: ' ' .. ; I. : / : I . .: I .... : ~ -· ·~ . . . D l •t' . on·-· co--mn:are t .·. . .. · . ' '' . :- \ ... : .. · .. .N; . ·. ' . ·.· . i • i~ prqin~r;y s~ores~ RoGERs, PmET ~'qp.'s. -p.ver¢qa.~~ and ·su~ts, rank with the finest m~4e­ to--mea8'ure garments. W-e have .. the ·exclusive $al~ of this clothing. BA-B:B:ITT tc 00~, -it\ ...... ; ' ,i CL-OTHIERS---HA.TTERS-- FURNISHERS. • . ' . . . . , .. ·· ,• . ' ' . . DON'T CHARGE FANCY PRIC·ES. MAKE ONLY TO ORDER.·· . . . '• . . .. - . ONLY MAKE UP FINE STUFF. . . H ·LEO, o.· ~-p .. ~-==N- · -=1·1¥1· · \ 1 .• : r.- - .~;;. ·· :. · ~ - ·· .. ~ - ,. \,.,;.: .;, . •t:.. ·-.~ .:~, , .. , ·;.,; ,~. r ~ ·::~ ~.,, • .. , TBE TAI.LOR. ~ . .(' .. -'- < / ~ ·:.-~··· ' . ~ . .. . ' ' .... . . ' ' . .--- J. 1~ . . . . • .. . . ExteusiY:e - Ladies D-ept~ . . . . . . \ . • ·•· WOOD BROS., \Mens' Outfitters/' Latest styles of Fall and Winter Hats and Caps. Dress Shirts. \ ' ' . Imme:p~e 1~11~ of U P4~rweir and Ne.ckwear. Pe-rrin,~ ar.Q~, ~id · ql~~~i· . STATE -ST.,· .. 9~0---~H--·E·- ··N, ·lfl'1ffl~-D- Y ~ ·. . . l~J(fj_ fl. .. • .· .. · ..•. j<: . ') ~~,; . . . ' ... ,_ . ~ i ·' I. , w l ' ' ! . ' ' ·,,I' ,/ ' _,· ; '' ! i7 /' -· •• ~- < • . . . , .. ·, . I -~ 1 lo ... l . ' '

The C d ' . .. · oncor · 1e:ns:1s. VoL. XXIV. . ' PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS. OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY,~N. Y. JANUARY 10, 1:901. No. 1 2.

U · u· · · ·'t QlOQ J11YCf8l .y. ·i !IDREW Y. Y. RAYMOND, D. lt, Lt. D .. , Prestdent. ': UNION COLLEGE, .5CHEiVECTADY, N. Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B,___;The rtsual ' Classical Course, including French and-German. Af,ter Sopho- more year the work is largely elective:. 2. Course Leading to the Deg1.~ee of B. S.~The modern languages are substituted for the anc1ent. and the amount of Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the :Degree of Ph. B.-This difllei'S from the A.. B. course chiefly in the omissi0n of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work iD: modern languages and 'Science. 4. General Cotuse Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of .an eng.ineering edu- cation, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French. and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary ()ourse Leading to tb.e Degree o:f B •. E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Sani- tary Engineering for some of the General E:ngtneering s.ttidies. · 6. Electrical Cou1·se Leading to the Degree of :B. E.- This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Elec\.. tl'icity a.nd its applications, in place of some of. the General Engineering-· studies. 'I'his course is offered tn co-operation with the Edison General Electric Con pany.- 7. Graduate Course in Engb1eering Leading to tliC Degree ·of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6. There aTe alRo special courses in An.alytial Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalog,uel30l' for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean ()fthe College,. Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTiv.JENT OF MEDICINE .. Albany Medical College.-Term C()mmen.ces last Tuesday in September. Four years strictly graded course. Instructions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture cou1·se, $100; perpetual ticket, $300; graduation·fee., $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each $10. Fot• circular address · WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department of the univel\sity is located at Albany. near the State Ca:pitol. It occupies a build~ in~ wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided. into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuitiott fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY~ N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in .Albany Medical College. Annual lecture .erm commences Monday, Oct. 1, For catalogue and informa- tien address '.UHEQDORE: J. BRADIJEY ,. Pli. G.,, Sec-reta~_, Aii.BA~, ~. Y. _' ;,.' , .: . I' I 'i . ;'' . •·- .. ·• ~· ..... · . '., . I' . ' . •• •• J ~. ~ .. ·. . ..•. w·hen Y!ou B~y· ,· .. -·.· •, ,.·. ~- Pu.rniture 1 .. ·,._.. . L.ook elsewhere-.· . look heres :C<>:m.parison is. -our delight,. and the more you know about .furniture the surer we are of rna~ing a sate. Furniture f0r ev:ery use practical, dura 7 bte and surprisingly low pr-iced. · A. :B ROW·N & SON,. 30.2 State St. The M·ost Reliable P h'TTO·N & H AL.L, 245 STATE ST.' .SOHE.NECTADY, N. Y. FOR HATS, CAPS, L T Cl t. FURS, T:RUNKS, SUIT . . ·n· e· g~~~~f!tK~: (ivl'f'c~~ ' I . ·. •. • • . . . J ,. '' \ ~ . . :· : ', ' : . ..,.. INTOSHES, &c., Go TO ---------- Du~~aJ\~~~f,;~~g~e~ats 227 STATE ST. :Merchant Tailor. SCH.EitECTADY, N. Y. ' '. '• ; ~· ).,; .. . ..• • :~, 1 .~ .·' ;·· ., . '• . . . . ~·· ~ . ', . 1 • .'•' '. ' . ..

.. .• - \ ., ' ' --· ADVEJ~TISEMEN·TS~-....-- U ·· u· · ·t· . QIOQ :lllVBfSl y. liDRIW Yi Y. RAlMUKU, D. It, LL. D., Presl~ent UNION COLLEGE, S CHEN E,CTA . .D Y, N .. Y: · t. ··. Course I,.eading to t-.e pegree of A,. :u.--'fhe: usuaoi Classical Course, including Fr~ncb .and German. .After rSopno- rnore year the work is lar~~ly eiec·ti'V& ~.. Cours~ Leading t.o the D~gree of :n. S.-The modern lang11ag~s are substituted for tbe an~tent~ and tbe amount of MllithemaJics and . English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large ltst of elecUv~s ls offered. . 3. Co~se I.eading to the De.gree of :Plt. B~......:This d-iffers from the A. Jl. course chiefly in tne omiSslon ·Of Greek and the substitu:tion tbere:for of additional w<;>rlt: in modern langu~es and science • . &.. Genet~ai CQurs~ Leading to i;he D~g~ee of B. E •• -- Tllts course is intende.a to give. the ba~is of ~n engineering edu- cation, incLuding. the fundamental principles ·of all special braneb,es ·of the professian, ~·knowledge of botlt French and G.erman, and a fuH course in :English. . . . . 5~ Sanit~ry (Jourse Leadlng to tbe Degree Qf D. ~.:...,.,. This differ!:). fro:m course 4 in substituting speCial wor}{ in Sant- ,tary Engineering for some ~f the Gener~l ~ngineering studies; . 6. ElectJ,\ical ()9u~se Leading to tb,e Degree ·of B. ~.--­ Tlli~ differs f,rom cou.rse}in s~bstituting s-pe<Jial wQ:rk i.n E~eC'­ trimty a;nd 1ts. .appbcaW')ns, 1n place of sorr1e of the Gene'ral Engineeri:n~ studies. 'l\his course is .. Qffered in. co-opet,ation witb tbe :Edisou General Electric Con pa'D.y:. , · 7. Grat]:u~te Course bl Engineering. Le~,~;ding to tbc · Degree of C:J. E.~A course of one year offered to gl·aduates of courses 4; 5 or 6.. · - · . The:re are aJ~o special c<nuses. itt Analytial Chemistry, I\[etalh:u,o~y and NatRral History. For c~talogt1es or for spe~ia.l information, address BENJAMtN li. }liPTON., Dean of the College •.. - Schenectady. N.Y .. DEPARTlv!ENT .OF MElllCINE. Albany :Medi~al Oolieg.e • .,_._'rerm ·commeu..ces last Tuesday in September. fi,our years .strictly graded co:u,rse. Instructions by le.ctures, i·ecitations, laboratory work~ clinics and practical demonstrations and <'>·:P.erations. Clinjcal: advantages.e~ceHent . . Expense~ . ...,... Matriculation fee,,. $5; annual lecture coui,'se, $10(}; perpetual ticket, $300 i gr:;td'Uationiee,.$25,; ·dissecting :fee. $10; laboratory coul·se, eacn $10. For cii·cular address · 'VILLIS G. TUCKER., M. :D., Begist1·ar, Albany, N.Y . .DEPARTM.ENT OF? LA·W. Whe '~ F Look Compc ., ·and tl .furnit mak;ir. for eV'I ble CJ pricec A.BF •l.he PAT1 FOR HAT:: FURS·, TRUNJ Albany L~:w School.~Tpis department of the university is located at Albany .. near the .Stat.e Capitol. lt occupies a build- . ·CASES, BAG~ ing wholly .devoted to its use. The c<>arse.lea.ding to th~ degree · ·. UMBRELLAS of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two sem~sters. INTOSHES, ~ Expenses.~Matt·iculatiQn fee; .$1C; t~itiou fee, $100. For · .Dunlap and Ste catalogues or other infermatiou, address · . · · · and Den.· t~s < ..ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, , .NEWTON FlERO, Dean, A:LBA~Y, N.Y. ALBANYCOLLEGE OF PHARMACY. WlX ·~ ~·o:;\;:t! .. -----.....~-- ..... ~ .;;.~·~. \'~+l~~~!.:ti--~~ .. ,- ' '-~,... ·- ~· ·~ ~ ' ~' ' ' \ . .

1 .~ ' ~~ ' ' ; .. ' :·. ::. 1•, •:: '' . ' ·,. '. ~·· ' . I . .' ~ , .,, I \ . .. -------ADVERTISEMENTS. 3 IRtereoUegiate Caps and Gowns, C. G. CRAFT & CO., CO'rlELL & LEO:t1ARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin on application. WI1T HOT ~R:E55 WELL? Suits and Overcoats COR. MAIDEN LANE AND JAMES ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CUSTOM TAILORS and READY MADE. Both Domestic and Foreign Goods. Both am Carts. TQCJ CAN [).Q IT Ef.l5lL T. SANDWICHES, all kinds. Custom or Ready-Made. YOU:R c~REDIT 15 QOOD. Marcus Saul, J\1EV ER L·El[ Hl3ERG, rvigr. 417 STATE ST. =-· =-=-·---_-_---::.:: = -==-==-= B.ARI-iYTE & DEVENPECK, ... 'Wholesale a11d Retail... Coal a11.d Woo·d. Lime, Cem~n.t, Plaster, Hair, l.•'lour, I 306, 308 and 310 Uuion. Feed, G raill, R::~lerl Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and .F'e1·tilizers. Schenectady, N, Y. JOHN IRIDA, LADIES' & GENTS' T ~I:LOB. ------···-----No.101 J~y Street.----- Ladies~ Tailor-made Suits and Jackets. Gento' Suits made to orcier. Cl<1t11Ing repaired, cleaned sponged and Pressed at reasonable prices. Work called for and delivered. 60 TO ''THE OWE·.N'' RESTAURANT, JLEST 25c DINNEJl IN THE CITY. OPE.N DAY ~ND .NIGHT. Latlie.r;' cm .. d Gents' .Restaw1•ctmt. 443 STATI<J STR\EET SCHENECTADY, N.Y . =.:-=--=---=-=----·-=-==--- =-=--======-= SCH.E.RMERHORH & CO. - -·- .... .... . . . ......... - . .. ' GENER.l:s.L INSURANCE AGENTS, Cor. State & Centre Streets. SCHENECrl'ADY, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, DiD. S., 156 JAY STREET, PIES, always fresh. Unsurpassed COFFEE. PURE MILK, etc. STATE CoR. CENTRE. E M ROGERS STATE CoR. JAY. I I I JAY, NEXT TO BURTIS. JONATHAN LEVI & CO., Wt:t.2LESALE CROCERS, 218-222 State St. Tobacco, G'rain a·nd Provisions. The 1~en Eyck~ _A_LB ... t\..NY, N. Y. POSITIVELY Fl RE-PROOF. American and European Plan. Mo::;t Attractive I-Iotel in New York State. Restaurant and Grill Room Special Features H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, HoTEL KENMORE AMERICAN PLAN. RATES, $2.50 AND $3.00 PER DAY. OFFICE H()URS: 9 A. Tvl. T() 4 p. M . Schenectady, N. Y. Under the same manag-ement.

