tr . i' ~ ~ ·~~ ., ~ &' ~ • ,'' ··' ·' Volume Xnl. Numbe~ 17. --. ~ ·~: ( 0 O~TEl:.:rTS .. J:i\\RoN1'ISPIECE-John Ho\vard Payne. LITERARY......_. Along the Hudson, Home, Sweet Home, Base Bali, EDITORIAJ.- Words, 'The Prizes, .. IJI Thanks to the Alumni, I 7 2 An c1 So It I) i e d 0 u t, I 74 Subs~riptions for the Senior Ball, I 76 177 177 ISO

~ =========::,::::::::;,::==:.:.... ------------ ----- ~- ---- VoL. XIV. UNION COLL:E.GE, OCTO·l3ER 4, 189o. -- ---- ~ ---. - --------~ - \- --- ~- ------- ----:------:· -~- -- -------------- No. 1. - -- ----- --------------- -------------- --- . --- --------; ··----------;.--- -- CHANCELLOR'S ADDRES-S. . - ~- ... I I········· t M R PRESIDENT, GENTLEMEN oF THE BoARD · OF 1\'1~ USTEES, GENTL;EMEN OF THE CLASS , . ' OF 'go; LADIES AND GENTLEMEN : Pr·esident was evidently made for Union, and · _has only to persevere as he has begun in order that the con1in·g historian of the higher educat[~ n may be pleasantty puzzled to deter- mine \Vhether to name Dr. \Vebster the · EHphale.t N ott of these latter days, or Dr. Dux j\m1nina {r.1cti-- the leader of the · Nott tile .H arri:son Webster of the former e.xpedition was a wd-mart · It was with these . ones. I have alluded to 1 he deep pleasure \vords that the greatest of the Latin poets, with which I responded to tny n1other's two thousand yearsag.·o,·certified the capicity · strmn1ons to speak for.her. Be assured that of women for high achieve-ment. \Ve, the. hand in hand with ,the pleasure goes the loyal sons of Old Union, n1ay \veil gather . sense of responsibility. \Vhat shall one of here, prolonging the euloginrn. Summer '6o's men say to \9o's men? What of the after ~um;mer, when the year is most winning, . night? What of the light? vVhat the a vvoman, 'forever young, forever fair, forever caution? What the encouragement? I have an +nspiration, bids her children a mother's been out of college thirty years. Not yet has whole-hearted w·elcome to the old home. the circle been squared. Not yet has· a per- T1iey return to this happy valley to be re-tied petual motion 1nachine been placed on the to her apron-.strings, each fron1 the expedition n1arket. Not yet has the origin of evil been on wh:ic·h lfe went forth with her equipment explained to the general ~atisfaction. Not and her blessing-this one searching for the. yet has ''the rny$tery hid under Egypfs ho:Jy grail ; that one for the golden fleece. pyran1id\ been unveiled. Not yet has Con- They cou-nt it joy to be back again, and to · gress passed an international copyright bill. testify that whatever success they may h·ave' Nevertheless in spite of much that baffles achieved is due to her, and wnatever failure .· and not a. little that saddens in the wide, is due to themselves. And so gathering wide world, '6o not yet has hung the harp of ab()ut the maternal knee, each of us fondly hope upon the vvillows of despair. VIe still exclain1s: 0 queen, live forever! Many look forward and not backward. We count dat1ghters have done virtuously, but thou ·life not only as worth living, but as better exceUest then1 alL Dux fcemi;za facti-. the worth living to-day than ever before. We leader of the expedition was a woman. hold fast to a rational optimisn1 which enables A:t any ;Con1mencement it. ~-ould have us confidently to appeal from the valley and gratified and honored rne to discharge this the shadow to the delectable mountains and function. But the circun1stances of to-day _the perfe.c t day. are tnore than commonly full of exhilaration. Youn~ gentlemen of the graduating class, Th i~s ver --raole institution has entered upon · you are about to exchange the still air of de- her golden age. Her past tnay have been a lightful ;Studies for the exceedingly vocal trifle insecure in places, but her pr,esent is atmosphere of life~s not altogether delightful radiant with an ever-increasing prosperity, battle-field. I may well aim, then, to deliver with the assurance that her future will be as a practical 1nessage, and I shall venture to to-day, but much tnore abundant. The new ask you to consider for a little the duty of

·' I ~ UNION UN[VERSITY. ·\' ' . , . . .• ..$ . ,_t...\}' \. ·~--·', .· I -· ' '1lo-,.-; ·~.~. \/ ///\ ... ~;.~ ...., . -~~~1 UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECT'ADY, N. Y@ ' ( x. CLASSICAL C u~s~- The Classical Course is the usual bacca.l:llull\eate course of Americarn colleg~. Stucllenb ilrulY 'ilMl ~nm.itted to pursme additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. SciElltTIFIC CouRSE-b. the Scientific Cours-e t:h.e mooem langu:ages are substituted for the ancient, gmd the lfimoun~ of lO'Iaathematical lllmd English studies is increased. 3· Scaoo!L OF: CIVIL ENGINEERING- The student in this department en.jo::vs adYantages nowhere surpassed in ~he course of imtt.ruction, in itso col- lection of models, instruments and books., the accum.ul4ltion (')f many years Thy- the late Professor Gillespie, and also in WlUSW!lia«:ilities for acqmring a ptacticzJ knowledge of instrumental field work. 4• EcLECTIC Com~s~t-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding coil:!~ may be t:llken by any one whlo., upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. Om the completion of thiis :a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special coUTses in Analytical Chemis.try, :Metallurgy an-d::N.attual History. For catalogues or for s~ai infonn;!tion address HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of the Faculty, Sche1rtectady, N. Y, DEPAR1\1v!EN1' OF l\1EDICINE. Al-BANY MEDICAl. CoLLEGE-Term commences Ttt.esday, September :23-, ~nd continues twenty weeks. The plan ofinstructi<Jn combines di.nicai teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the. study of Chernistrr a::nd. of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSR...<>-Matriculation fee, $5; term fee, $:1oo; perpetual ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $w; histologic.'-1 course, $18. For circulars addreso; WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.,Registr:a~,Aibany,N. Y. DEPARTIV1EN'T OF LAW. T'm~ ALBANY LAw SCHOOL- The comrse of instruction consists ot three term!'>; the first commencing Septembe!i' x6, ltlhe secondS> January 6, and tbqe third, April 7 ; each tenn consisting of u weeks. The adv:mtages for tbe- st.udy of law at Albany are as great as can be found &nyw'herc: The law Uibra:ry of the State is open to students; the General 'Ir\erm..\' of the Supreme C.ot~rt of the Third Departmentj and all the ternlS of the Coull't of Appeals. Tuition, $so each term, in advance; $x3<» each y:ea r, in adv<\P.nce. For i1:1fo~mation address Prof. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.l)., Albany, N.Y. IDUDLEY OES:ERVATORY. '.Jrhis Uepartment of the University. is located at A1 ba.ny, and is devoteo e~iaHy to Astro~omy and Meteorology. FoT inforrn.ation add res<; Pr<»f. LEWIS BOSS, Albany,~. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY& Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. 11. i



l J ' ; ~ f I . l ! ' I .,I i i .i

Volume XIIL . Number 9. <! .... nion . F. I A~ J;> SCHENECTA-DY, N.Y. CO~TEN\TS. EDITORIAL; Our Ninety- Third . Commencement, 130 LITERARY- A Valuable Document, The Baccalaureate Sermon, by President ·' ' Webster, The Batting Averages, .. I\ J CoLLEGE NEws- LOCALS, D - - 136 l. The Pennant, 137 I 1 I 29 ·. PERSONALS,

I ! . I ' ' I f ) l' I I ' • UNION UNIVERSI'TY 'HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL.D., President UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1. CLASSICAL Cou.nsE-The Classical Course is tb.e usual baccalaurea.te course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. ScmNTIFro CouRsE--In the Scientific Course the modern languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathe- matical and English studies is increased. 3. ScnooL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING-The student in this departmen..t enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course o:f instruction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, the accu:mulation of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusual facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. . 4. EcLEcTro CouRsE-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected. at pleasure from the preceding cours.es, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On tne completion ·Of this a certificate of attttinment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy a11d Natural History. For catalogu.es or for special-information address HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of the Faculty, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDIOAL CoLLEGE-Term commences first Tuesday in .September and continnes twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectu1·es. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSEs-Matriculation fee, $5; term fee, $100; peepetual ticket, $5(); graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL-The course of instruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third March 6~ each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found any-where. The law library of the State is open to stud.ents; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, .and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. · Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each year, in advance For information address Prof. HORACE E. SUITH, LL.D., Albany, N. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For infor- mation add~ess ~ Prof, LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALBANY, N. Y.-For inform~tion apply to Prof. 'WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.

ADVERTISEMENTS. ======~========================================~~=-==-··~----··-_~~---~---~~ FOR CHOICE ·<rut jflowers, 'FLORAL DESIGNS OR BASKETS, -·GOTO- EGER, the Florist, 275 State St. Greenhouses, 825 Union Street. Flowers furnished for parties at • short notice. C OLLEGE STUDENTS who would like to • · earn from one hundred to .five hundred dollars during vacation months are invited to correspond with · the undersigned. Send for our Hlustrated catalogue, and if you will state just when you will be ready to · commence work and how long you can continue at it, we will guarantee to make you an acceptable proposi- · tion. CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO., Publishers of the Grant and Sheridan Memoirs, Mark • Twain's books, and other standard works, No. 3 East ' 14th St., New York. DE LONG'S :ladies' and Gentlemen's Dining Rooms, ro2, I04 and Io6 Wall Street. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO ·T..A..L::BOT 7 505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, CATERER & CONFECTIONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. ::M:..A.:O:El '::-'0 OE:OE E. Fatzcyl ces, Cream, 1elli'es, Cltarlctte de Rt4sse, Neapolitan Creams, -RomafJ Pun;lt, Bisc·uit Glace, Plum Pudditzg Glace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy Ora,zgt atzd Nougat Pyramt\ds itz all styles, Chz'cken and Lob$ter Salads, Butted Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, Oyster Pa.ttie\' etc., etc. TABLE SETTIIII, FRATERNITY DIIIIIERS AND SUPPERS A SPECIALTY. ''Moral: Insure £1t1 the 1 RAVELERS.\ H . F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods House, JII STA T.E STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lcwer than the Lowest.

: ~ ' ; ·I ! l : d l : ll I ''•j '! f· f f I i r I AD VER'riSEMENTS. --------~--------~-----~-------~ ~~~~-- • •• • • • .Drawing Papers, Pmcits and In#ruments. A It grades of Sta•tiun- e\Jj; O?':c/ers/or spea·al books not ln. stock .filled · j-rontptly at the lowest prt\ces. HULBER'l', 235 State St., (below the canal brid~e,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. R 0'13ER.Jf T. MOIR, (Succ~ssor to John Gilmour,) H ENRY A. KERSTE, I'll. G.,. DE.ALER IN (@) fPIJOtltt:llCtst. .~ 33.J State and I.fo Centre Street, A FIN:E LI:NE OF TOILET AR7'.1CLES, S():A..PS, P.E.l?.FUMES, Etc. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Imported and Domestic Ciga.ls and Cigarettes, Agency for Anchor, 1umau and Hamburg-AmericanTraus.Atlan- tic Steamship Lines. STA~FO.RD l3LOOK. UNION STREET PBAIU\IA()Y, RESTAURANT IN THE Y. Jlf. C. A. BUILDING, now undei the direction of the Association. especially reserved for Ladies. Open from 7 A. M. to Io P. M. Rooms Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner, 25c. Pleasant · Rooms. Prices Moderate, BOSTON • ONE-PRICE· CLOTHING HOUSE, 120 STATE ST., SCHENECTA.JJ Y, .K. Y. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur- nishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECJA.LTY. --GO TO-- L. - T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, FOR THE CORRECT STYLES IN Cor. Union and Yates Sts., SCH:'ENECTADY, N.Y. GLOBE HOTEL, J. A. HoucK, Propiietor. ; 1 Cor. State a1zd Pearl Sts., .i ALBANY, N. }. Terms: '$2 .. 00 per day. B ARHYTE & BIRCH~ · WHOLES.ALE .AND RET ..AIL :DE..ALE::RS IN COAL AND WOOD, Lhne, Cenient, Plaster, Ha-ir~ .Flott~, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw, and :FertHizers, 306, aos and 810 UNioN STREET, l.sCBE!V..ECTA.DY N.Y. 209 and 211 Docx STREET, I · · ' ] -·· • H. DEVINE, . Sole Agent for Stacy~ Ad~ms & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot- Wear Also a /ull line if Trunks, .Bags, Glo'lJes, l!m/Jrel~ · !as, 0-'c., &c. Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole· agent for :Edwl11 C. Rurt, . Ladies' Fine Foot-Wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Peail Sts., ALBANY, N.Y. Mail orde1•s promptl:y attenrZea to. Agent for DUNLAP CELEBRATED .flAT.

HE~ ONCORDIENSIS VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, JUNE, 18go No. 9 TH .~·E- ; i • C .. · · · .. , ·. . · , . . ,· not laud the paper to the disparagement · O·N,CO·RDIENSIS. ·: of former volumes; neither ·will we, with PuB~;.IsHED· MONTHLY sY assumed modesty, underrate its HU~cess. STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. Our patrons be the judges. We bave BOARD OF EDITORS: .simply worked faithfully and tirelessly to make the paper a success. Our main idea has bee11 to make the CoNCORDIENSIS F. E. HAWKES, 'go, t } ' go, · .. B. c. LITTLE, ~91, EDITOR-iN-CHIEF. . . not only worthy of Union College, bat in AssociATES. some degree of help to Union College. If - LITERARY EDITOR. W. A. McDoNALD, 'gr, HoMER B. WIL·~IAMs, '92, .~·. L. H. CARRIS, <]3, f we have done this ; if the new features, Assrsr ANTS. the increased :size, the extra exJ!ense· and - BusiNEss EDITOR. H. T. MosHER, 'go, J. W. FERGUSON, 'gr, G. F. MosHER, '92, E. B. BAKER, ~QO, } AssisTANTs. :the hard work have accomplished this, we GILLESPIE ciuB EDIToR. are satisfied. The OONCORDIENSJS has TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $I. 50 PER YEAR, IN AI>Y ANCE. - ' 20 CENTS. We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of inter- est and information concerning Alumni. Extra. copies can be obtained on application to Business Man- ager. Subscribers not receiving pa.pers promptly will kindly notify Business :Manager. All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNeo:nmEN- BIS, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered n.t the Post-office at .Schenectady, N. Y., as secoud·class matter. BRANDOW PRINTING COMPANY, ALBANY, N.Y. ------------------------------------ then been a success. Undoubtedly there is ro<?m for im- provement in the n1anagement of this paper. :With the increasing size and activity of the college it will be next to impossible for one ()r two men ~o do all the work upon the paper as in the past several years. The long ari'\ay of assistants and associates should be some- thing more than graceful company. ~hey will have to work. To bring about ,this condition of affairs, a change in the man- ner of election of editors is e-vidently W 1TH this number of the CoNCORDIENSIS necessary. Instead of being a political ends the services of the present editor of gift, a place on this board should be g~iued this paper. 'To say that he yields his stub by competition only. The bo.ard slt~uld willingly into the hands of his successor is elect its successors upon a basis of 1nerit to put it mildly. He does it with a fever- judged by contributions of editorials, ish gladness never before experienced. , locals and literary matter. It is not n€ces- The position is not to be coveted. The . sary that the chief editor should be a issuing of this paper once a month is a · senior. .. Fie should be the man most fi~tted task-and a thankless task. It means for the work. 'rhis plan will insu:re .not hard wotk and worry. It means the •· only able men, but wiiling workers. It recital of news already stale to the students will advance the stan.dard of the paper or the manufacture of news froin trifles ' and materially lighten the labor. we and possibly frOlll a vivid ilnagination. commend this plan to the action cf the We shall utter no valedictory. We will college at the beginning of next year.

I. I; : l ' ' . ; i 'I I d ' I 1 . ·.: i ' : ' ~ l I ' ' ~ I . . ·. ·I ., . \! I I . I I -I i ' I I f I I I I I l I ' ' ,· ' I ' t_ I ' . I ; 1 122 THE OONOORDIENSIS. WE think it is the general feeling individual players ; but a nine made up of among Union men that our base ball such sure fielders and such heavy hitters. manager should, at the next conven:tion, Surely the day of ~ nion's athletic advance insist that the league do without Colgate has arrived. The batting averages were University as a member. If this cannot remarkably high ; Begley having a record be accomplished we think it is in order for · of 23 base hits in the league games, with a Union to withdraw. Colgate has no place total of 30. Mosher was second with 19 in a college league, whose students try to · hits. The OONCORDIENSIS prize of $25 has act like gentlemen. She has no con- been handed to Mr. Begley. ception of the meaning of this word.. •. * * * The only game that Union lost was liter- ' THE foot-ball record for ne:s:t year is also ally stolen from them by Colgate .. especially promising. Very nearly all of Learning that one of our best playem had ' last year's eleven will be back and the not arrived, the Colgate manager called: numberofcandidatesforpositionsis)arge. the game an hour and a half ahead of '; Mr. Hiland, the Wesleyan trainer of '86, time, not even allowing our men a chance • has been engaged and will commence for practice. By ,these means they gained · work with the team on the first day of such a lead in the first three hmings, that · the term. As far as can be seen now, the although our men, later, far outplayed . men likely to be on the team are : Coons, them, still we were defeated by a very uar- B · 'TT v t '90 M. n G\ b riggs, \ an . oas . , · ·, . c~ueen, n1e . ra row margin. A hot \roasting\ by the and Van Valkenburg. The backs will Colgate umpire also aided materially in likely be Ginebra, full ; van v alkenburg our defeat. Nor was this all. When and McQueen, halfs; with the quarter- certain Union men would step to the bat, . back yet to be determined. they would be greeted by the crowd of college students with insults that would tnake a Schenectady street mucker blush and realize that even he was a tyro in such lines. For the past two years Colgate bas been clain1ing to :be outgrowing those decidedly rural qualities so characteristic · of her men. This is unfortunate, for the loss of that quality proves that it was the one char~cteristic that distinguished her men fro1n rowdies. Again we repeat it. · Colgate should be relegated to a high- • · school league, or Union should withdraw. · * WE congratulate Union College upon its s·uccess on the diamond; we congratulate every n1.ember of the steady, earnest, hard- working and victorious nine. Their record is one to be proud of. Probably not for sev~n or eight years has the college had a nine composed of not only such excellent * * CHANCELLORS' addresses have been traditionally long and tedious, but tho~e given the past two years have happily not borne out this reputation. That of Dr. McElroy was not only a masterly and scholarly address, but also abounded iu humor and I~hetorical finish. The entire audience listened with great attention and frequently interrupted the speaker with laughter and applause. We hope to see the address published in the next number of the 00NCORDIENSIS. Professor Truax announces that the results of the extemporaneous essay writ- ing which was introduced by him in the freshman class as an experilnent, have been so satisfactory, that the same method will be extended to the sophomore and junior classes.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 123 The, :::Baccalaureate Sermon. By .PRESIDENT WEBSTER. The phenomena of life are practically the same everywhere and always-and organi- zation is aWways organization, no matter how simple or co1nplex it may be. We may go much further, and maintain on good grounds that the same is true of the In what I Jlave to say to yo~ to-night it • intellect, i. ~-, that the intellect of man will be ass~1ned that man has a spiritual · does not differ in kind from that of animals nat11Te; that this spiritual life is as real, . mentally and structurally below man. If as distinct, .as certainly a part of man as:· this is a true presentation of the case, then the animal Jife, or the intelleetuallife : in · obviously ·when we desire to discriminate other worts~ that man is not 1nerely an •. between man and the brute we must not animal, thEt;t, he is not merely an intellec- · depend on physical organization, nor yet tual animal, but that he is something < on mental constitution, for such discrim- moreandsomething higher. I do not mean . ination. To what, then, can we look~ by this that the germ of the moral or •. Without hesitation we reply to man's spiri,tual natut·e does not exist in the forms . moral natu:re-to his spiritual life, which of life whos~ organization is less complex · may control and which ought to eontrol than that of man, nor on the other hand ;. both mind :and body-not overpowered, do I at present claim that it does so exist. •· dominated by them; but itself free, ruling, In any case tile germ is not the developed not ruled. For observe-the intellect of and matured product, it only represents the brute never raises any question of the possibilitir of such product, a condi- duty, of righteousness, of right and wrong; tionaJ promise, and the conditions may nor can it-because ·there is 110 active, no never be I'ecttiz;ed, the pro1nise not fulfilled. developed moral nature to summon the For consider-for those of us who believe intellect to such action. In the forms of in God as ];ndwelling, as immanent, as life below m.an there is indeed a wonder- indeed om1~i:present ; who see in nature · ful gradation of intellect ; but whether the and in all i!t~: phenomena only the exter- · grade be high or low; this intellect sub ... nalization of the divine thought and pur- serves only the physical needs of the pose ;, who s~y with Paul that in God we animal life. Compare the intellectual live and m()ve and have our being ; even development of a high mammal, say an Tyndall's apparently troublesome and · anthropoid ape, with that of an earth- certainly sta.r-tling position that Newton worm or a star-fish. The $Uperiority of the was potentially in, the star dust may not mammal is very great, and, we may say, in seem impossible or even improbable ; passing, plainly correlated with complexity for we add, God was in the star dust, and of structure-but there is no difference in without his presence there would have function ; in both the same end is sub- been neither star dust nor Newton. How- served, the physical needs, the demands of ever, turning away from this question as the anin1al nature, and this end only. not of necess.ity involved in the subject Brutes often_ show not only energy but no'v under (}On&ideratiou, we tnay cer- skill, 1nental ability, in attaining their taiuly claim, without argument, that the ends, as in capturing their prey, but they animal life and physical organization of do not divide it when captured. Such man do no-t differ in kind; but only in · conduct we do not .call selfish in them, degree from t.bat of the lower forms of life. because . we recognize the lack of moral

124 THE OONOORDIENSIS. nature ; but when men work simply for :, of body, mind and spirit ; the comiOon their own interests, for thegratifica~ion of·· form includes only mind and body; it does their own desires, we do call them selfish. · not matter which expression is used,, pro- , One school of ethical writers would have v:ided only that all the phenomena of life us believe that man neither does nor can are included. Both expressions are likely aet from any other motive than that which . to be n1isleading unless care is taken. Man controls the brute, viz., self-gratification, · is a unit and must be so regarded. Water and it is probably true that no human , is composed of oxygen and hydrogen action is entirely free from the self-regard- • -but you cannot ascertain the properties ing element ; but the question is which pre- ;. of these gases by studying water-· nor dominates, regard for self or regard for ' of water by studying the gases separately. ,. others? ·· Water, however, is composed of gases . It must be admitted that in many men . always combined in certain definite pro- the moral nature is very weak. Such portions, while in man the physical, the men approximate to the normal condition . me11tal and the spiritual exist in all possible of the brute; and this idea finds exp:res- • proportions, not only in different men, but sionin the language of every-day life when· even in the Mme man at different times. we designate conduct as brutal and even ' Notice also that the feeble conditio11 of say of a 1nan that he is a brute. We ·· one does not necessarily affect the others. know that this deficiency in conscience An insane man may be strong and vigor- may be accompanied with ·wonderful in- .· ous. Many men weak in body are strong tellectnal power, even with genius. The inteHectually. Others weak in body, not first Napoleon was an example of such an .strong in mind, have given clearest proof unbalanced nature. It has already been of a spiritual nature at once delicate and intin1ated that man is disth1guished from .. powerful the brute only by the possession of a sp:irit- · We have, therefore, a means of compar- ual nature. Using other language, we · ing men with one another, and thus as may say that he is so distinguished on~y by •. one or the other of the elements of which the possession of a conscience; for without • he is composed predominates, of obtaining conscience there is no spiritual life. Oon- sor:ne knowledge not only of that element, science is not intellect. Conscience gives but also of the others. It has already been us the sense of rightandwrongingeneral, remarked that in many men the moral the apprehension of duty, and calls upon nature is very weak; it is much to be the intellect to decide as to the right and fea1·ed that in most men it is by no means wrong in particular cases. The decision the controlling element. And this ought rendered, conscience urges us to do the to be the case if the doctrine of the Chris- right, to refrain from doing the wrong, tian evolutionist is true, simply because and finally approves or blames our action the moral nature, the conscience, was the in the given case. The conclusion of the last gift of God to man, and in this position intellect may be entirely erroneous. Many · the Christian evolutionist has the support elements enter into such judgn1ents-. time, • of the Biblical Record. If the views set · place, education, in fact environment in forth thus far are true; that there is .a general, but conscience will act upon such spirit11al nature, that this, and this alone en·oneous decisions, exactly as if they distinguishes man from the brute ; that were entirely correct. this same spiritual nature is the last and We have spoken of man as composed no blest gift of God to man, the plain duty,

THE ;Q'ONOORDIENSIS. 125 the highest duty, and the highest, privilege this is plainly a ques-tion of character. of man becomes apparent. He must. ear- · But what then is a man's character~ What nestly desir~ spiritual truth, eagerly search . do we mean by the WoTd ? and what ought fol' it, gladly accept it, ancl. honestly act · we to mean ~· In the p!eactical affairs of in accordance with it whenever found. every-day life the question what is a 1nan's But, unfortunately for the highest devel- ' character, when applied_ to any particu[ar opn1ent and most rapid growth of the · individual, does not seem difficult to an- world,mendonotalwayssoact. ·Oftenthe •• swer. We decide off hand that the spiritual reality ·is exactly what they do : chaTacter of such and such a n1an is good not desire to know ; or k11owing, are most :, or had. We wish to ]\:now only what a unwilling to accept and act upon. ~\.t · man has done-· the ten<:n· of his life-then first it seems strange that this should be the decision is readily made. But are we the case. In all ordinary affairs of life, •• certainly right in so deciding~ Do not in_ their~ business. relations to each other, , men differ much fronl each other even in nHnl recognize that, however disagreeable . infa'ncy and all through life~ Are we facts may be, nevertheless it is wholly in ·. su1·e or can we be su±·e that heredity· has their own interest to be inforn1ed of the , no controlling power, that environment acf~ual state of affairs, and sin1ply foUy to · does not detern1ine sorne elements in ignore it. Depreciation in the value of ,. character, as we commonly and carelessly property however produced, loss by fire or . use the term ? We ave not sure, and we flood, loss by the carelessness or dishonesty · can never he sure in this matter. If we of etnployees,-all sufficiently disagreeable : grant, then, that sueb. influences have and distressing-yet no one thinks that • more or less of a coercive effect, the ques- any help can come to hiln by any at ten1pt , tion recurs, what constitutes the true to disbelieve the facts, or by in any way • character? Obviously only that which disregarding them. Every intelligent • the man hin1self has. made for himself business man governs himself in all busi- under conditions of freedon1. And what ness affairs 011 the basis ()f ascertained · this really is no man can tell in regard to facts, and of the soundest business princi- any other man ; no n()t even in regard to ples known to him. He is willing to spend • himself. God knows a.nd God alone does tin'le and 1noney, to wear out body and . know. For us remains the teaching (and miud in search and work, that he may how clear and plain it b€comes when seen know everything tllat pertains to his in this light l) business,, that he 1nay succeed. Other- '' Judge not that ye be not judged ; for wise in the fierce, bitter, never ending with what judgment ye judge ye shall be competition of business life, he vvell knows judged, and -vvith what· measure ye n1ete, he has nothing but failure to expect. it shall be measured to you again.\ In But in the spiritual life, \vhich is incom- many cases it would S€em that men have pc:trably more ilnportant, many n1en act no character, in the s€11se in which the upon dian1etrically opposite views. Just tertn is used here. They appear to be sirnply as men are distinguished from brutes by the product of circunl!stances ; they are the possession of a spiritual life, so are good or bad, useful o~~ injurious to the men distinguished from men by the value co1nmunity, not because they have deter- they assign to spiritual Tealities, by deli- Inined anything for tl1emselves, but be- cacy of conscience, by clearness and cause of what, for lack: of a better word, strength of n1:oral ideas and purposes. All we n1ay call accident. Observe the limi-

126 THE CONO'ORDIENSIS. -tation, \it would seem so,'' not, it is so. ·• to 1nercy, has be€u beard as 11ever before. .No doubt a more intin1ate and thorough •. But the reformer is not yet accepted, not knowledge of such men, would show even ·· yet honored. We are still far irom under- to us that they were not in reality devoid ·· standing the full n1eaning a;nd value of of character, that they '\Vere really men,. . that inspired teaching of Lu~ther, that in and as such responsible- not merely • spiritual mat:ters every man not only has brutes. the right of private judgmeu{~, but that it Other and nobler men there are who •• is his duty to exer\cise it ; that to his own ·must know realities for themselves; who·. Master each man must stand ~r fall, being can in no wise rest content with beliefs : responsible to God alone. But we are or theories or interpretations of life which • much nearer to it :tnan any ge11~ration that have simply been transmitted to them .•. has preceded us; much nearer in reality Au.thority, cus:tom, training do not suf- : than Luther hin1self was. l3igotry and fice. They are filled with that spirit, · superstition are not dead, bu:t; thank God which, when combined with obedien<Je to.· they are wounded, and woanded to the truth, develops the best character-the death. But if .man~s highest duty, his spirit of investigation. Such men are noblest employment, is to cultivate his sure to doubt, often finally to deny many · spiritual nature, to develop llis character things, which even to hesitate about seen1s along lines of righteousness,, :the question to n1ost men of their time mere wickedness. arises how can he best do this ·~ r;rhe answer Every advance recorded in the history of is plain ; by earnestly seeking tbe truth and the world is due to such men, every step · honestly obeying it when found. This is forward has fi1·st been 1nade by them. no new answer. It is the answer of 'lhey are troublesome people. Those who Zoroaster, of Zeno, of Buddha-, of Moses_, are at ease in Zion or elsewhere cry out of David, of Isaiah, of Mica.b. and many against them. They seem to be destroy- other teachers of n1en who lived close to ing the very foundations of all things • God, and were taught of G()cl. Let us good. And a great and bitter cry goes . give due honor to all such nobie men, who, out against them. In the good old times • some in less, others in grea~er degree, such men were crucified, were covered .· departing from tradition and authority, with honey and left to be stung to death . more or less, enlightened by the divine by bees and wasps, were burned at the: light, taught by the Logos which was stake in a slow fire, were torn in pieces ou : before the world was, summoned men to the rack; in any case they were disposed .· live on a higher plane-reveale-d to men a of, and their voices were heard no more. · better way of life. And this very thing Vfhat better could men expect who de- · they and many of their followers honestly nounced the tyranny of church and state, : atten1pted, and to some .extent succeeded, the abominations of persecution and . in doing. But they did not ~ttaiu. to the slavery? Were not all these ordained of highest truth. A man who ~onformed God? And the pity and horror of it, when · to the teachings of the Stoics would be in we remember that all those things were · many ways a noble man, but Ids nobility doi1e in the name of the Father, eve11 God ! ·. was for himself, not for the goo<l of others. To-day we are less fierce, less cruel. Oer- The since1~e disciple of Buddha would lead taiuly the world gro\vs better. Into many a life of unselfishness-· for se]fish ends- dark places the light has penetrated, and to gain rest, to be set free fron\l the w-eary the voice of the Christ, calling men to love, series of transmigratio11s, to suffer no more, .fl t~ b ( t) t: p n f: v b s I 0 v t v v s v r I l )j t 2 - c 1 ( i ( ~ (

'fHE OONOO~DIENSIS. . . 127 to :.;ejoice no more, to attain Nirvana;· In the case of freedom, if we allow Oll;r- h~rein not (liffering much from many • selves to depart from theprimaryeertaii1ty Christians who h~ve f~iled to apprehend · nothing is easier thau. to show that we the J;Uea~ing of Christ, when he taught. are not free and therefo~e not responsible. that we should become one with God,. not · If once we have come to believe in the God pr-imarily for our own sake, but that men whom the philosophers have made, then might know that the Christ came forth · from his attributes you. can reason free- from God--· that the divine life was in the · dom out of existence. But retnemberthis . . . world, working. always,. that men might is not the God and Father of our Lord ~nd be· saved from their sins-from them- S~yior-· this is not the loving Father of selves, that they might be born again. all men, revealed to us i1 the Christ. God ~ut if so many good men have been wrong, · has not delivered his children to perpet~al or have only attained to partial truth, confusion, to folly, to madness, for indeeq what assurance have we or can we have · iu this way lies madoess. But men of that we can do any better ~. Why should another school, who cla.im that they do not we succeeq where ~hey failed~ Suppose know, and too often sbow that they qo we earnestly desire to know the truth ho\v not care to know, whetller there be ~ G.:od shall we recognize it, and why obey that or not, reach the same fa.talistic conclusio~ which after all may not be the truth~ in another way. Thei:r argument, drawp. ~o this question honestly asked, and by . frorr1 the order and course of nature, from many it is asked in all sincerity, a com- the unalterable fixedness and rigidity of petent answer ought to be given and can natural law, is just ~s good . as t~]~ be given. For there are some things one first mentioned, and the conclq.sioq J:rnown to all men, simply because they equally foolish. The reply to all :sucli are men; other things which men require reasoning is very plai11 a1~d si~ple-it is to be taught, but which when once heard that we know better. No sane man, how- and understooq 110 sane man can honestly ever confused he masy have become deny. Such knowledge is intuitional, a11d ttirough fallacious or sophistical reasoning, in our intuitions we must rest, and do rest. ever doubted his own ·fr·e~don1 anq his ·o'Y\n As one illustration, take the intuition of · responsibility. Of couTse this is disputed freedom. We know beyond a peradven- and denied. Many a mai~ has qecided, in ture, without a shadow of doubt, that we the exercise of freedotn, to spend a l~rge originate our own acts, that we ca11 do or part of his life in the ·attempt tp show that refrain from doing, and that 've are re- freedon1 is impossible, ttnd while hol4ing sponsible for what we do, and for what himself and all other men strictly respon~ we refrain from doing. This position sible for their words and a.cts, h~s stoutly cannot be proved, it is simply true in maintained that responsibility is ~n absurd, ' . l itself. In fact nothing of any special con- delusion. He constru~ts a philosophy qf sequence to man can be proved. If any life which .stands distin.etly opposed ~to ~11 man denies the reality of love, love of par- . the facts of life. A. great deal of what ents for children, of husband for wife, of is called philosophy, while it adds 1iothl~1g friend for friend, wecaninno wise prove it to the sum of hun1an.knowledge, yet, ~i11-' to him ; we can only pity him. So of many its eager attempts to accomplish the im~ other things of highest certainty and of possible, reveal$ the limits of the possible greatest value to man ; they do not admit for the human inte11€ct. I claim, theu, of proof. that the intuition of fre~dom is the common ~ > ' ' ' ' • • • • • .... \ ..

i l i I I I . l 1 r . i . j ' \ ~· . . . .. ~..--·· ... ,... ............ .,~ .. ~1:' ... ,.;_l ....... ·~i!'~::::--:-. ~.:\'.r:..:; :-: ~~. ,,, \0, .,. # . 128 THE OONCORDIENSIS. possession of men as men. But there are . I think 'it was Macaulay who said if men's other cer~tainties which do not belong to pecuniary interests had been jeopardized aU men alike. To the instructed mind • .by the law of gravitation, many would the annihilation of a single particle of · have been found to deny it. But the Hfe matter is. unthinkable. Not so for the .· of the Christ, the law of love, is opposed man of untrained mind. To him it seen1s · not to one form of selfishness, but to ·all that anni:hilation of n1atter continually ·. forms. The greed and passions of men, occurs. The wood burns, there is a small their .entire animal nature, is roused to residuum; but the g1·eater part has dis .. • wrath and indignation, is stirred up to appeared, jt is no longer revealed to him •. :fierce rebellion when called to unselfish- by his senses-·· and :for hhn it is not. ness, and the intellect is straightway set Mathematjcal axioms represent a third to work to show that the demand is use- class of certainties. For many ~ges not •• less, irrational, impossible. But all the known, not formulated, not known even . . time men know that not only has a better yet. by many living men ; yet when once ' way bee11 pointed out to them, but the , the terms in which they are expressed are best way, and that they have heard the understood, the 1nind is obliged to adn1it . highest truth attainable by man. The their certainty and universality. To this Christ hilnsel:f taught plainly, appealing last class belong the fundamental and. simply to the ,conscioltsness of men, that essential truths of the spiritua] life. For. those who refused to come to this ages they remained unknown. Many men · light, to conform to this law, did so, approached close to them. Many seem to not because they failed to recognize this have been on the verge of discovering light as a true light, b11t because they did them, but it remained for the greatest of so recognize it., and did not wish it to fall all teachers to completely reveal them. . upon their evil deeds. Let me appeal to When he said to his disciples and to the your own experience. Have you ever world. ''.A new commandment I give found yourself obliged to excuse or defend unto youtbat ye love one another;\ when yourself when you were honestly trying he taught that we must love, not our to know and to do the right? Certainly friends only, but also our enemies, and not. But when a man who has yet some mU:st do good to them ; when in brief he conscience finds himself led by evil desires proclaimed the doctrine of u;nselfishness to do evii deeds, then indeed unlimited in its fulness, he revealed a new light and sophistry is necessary. There is, then, a new life to the world. To what kind of one law of life and only one that needs truth does this teaching belong? Does no defense, that in fact admits of none, it require proof? Evidently the teacher because it is self-evident; it is the law of himself did not think so. He never fur- love, of unselfishness ; and there is one nished any proof ; he simply stated it, teacher, even the Christ ; and it remains proclaimed it as truth, and no man has eternally true that the man who, having ever heard this teac;hing without imn1edi- come to the knowledge <>f this law, refuses ate recognition of its eternal, unchange- to obey it, the man 'vho, having heard the able, universal reality. But it is denied. voice of the Christ, rejects him as a Yes, men crucified, and still do crucify teacher of righteousness, has no life in the Christ. The men who dHny it know him.. I have spoken only of the axioms it to be true ; but shall this fellow live, of the spiritual life. As in every other and their place and nation be taken away? department of knowledge, so here, we

''1HE OONC.ORDIENSIS. 129 must begin at the beginning, and as God Dr. W ebste:e spoke for 45 minutes and helps us in our search for every othe1· form was closely followed by the large congre- of knowledge, so hei~e the divjne help will • gation. 'rhe services were brought to a not fail us. ·The Christ himself has -taught close by the singing of the hymn .and the us h<)W to begin in the training and culture .: doxology and the pronouncing of the bene- of the .spiritual life ; for he said, ''If any . diction by the Rev. A. Russell Stevenson. man willeth to do his will, he shall ]cnow ·: of the teaching, whether it be of God, .or •. whether I .speak fron1 myself,\ i. e., let ,; each man do what he already kncws to · be God's will, and his eyes shaH be opened, ' PATRONIZE THOS:E'WHO PATBONIZEUS. his mind enlightened, and knowledge of :: The Pennant. divine things shall groV\ 7 up in him'. It is !i It is the righ·t thi11g that .a year of .such always so. Plainly it is God's ·will in every :. general p:rosperity in the college should be departn1ent of leaTning that we shall do ;' n1arked by noted events. All this has first the simplest things, what we ,can do, ! 1 happened. Most prominent among these what is just before us, and tbe man who • events has been the graduation of ninety refuses to work in the lower n1athematics, · and the winniug of .the base ball pennant. beca11se he does not, understa11d the higher, : 1:,he resu[t of the base ball trip and the violates God's wiB and if he persists he . hour of the home-coming had been tete- shall never come to the knowledge of ;: graphed ahead, and when the vietors calculus or quaternions. The same law ,: arrived at Schenectady they found the holds in the spiTitual life. The only . happy collegians in the best of .spirits and rational course is to do God's will just so : -vice versa. Enthusiasm and noise were far as. we have knowledge of it. If in · unbounded, aud resulted in a demonstra- yourcollegiate course you have not learned ·• tion worthy to be remembered. to rejoice in realities, to rejeet unrealities, : About nine o'clock in the evening the then either the college is decidedly in the ; pro9ession .s:ta:rted from the hill. Leading wrong or. you are. Men often talk as if : it was the Continental band and d:rum the end of_ college life was the beginning • corps. Following these came carriages of a more real, a 1nore practie~llife. This ; .containing the champion nine, and after ought not to be true, and, indeed, it is not . these the whole mass of U uion students, true. College life is of course prepaTatory · bearing flags, banners, transparencies and to subsequent life, hut so is eve:ry year, fireworks. One large banner announced yes, every day thatamai}.lives:preparatory to the assembled spectators on the streets to Bubsequent life. May God gr-ant to every that \We are the people.\ The procession one of you the best blessing He can give to marched about all the principal streets any man, a true belief in the ·Ohrist life, a . and afterward returned to the campus. true obedience to his law. May you go forth Along the line of march many houses and fro1n eollege not only prepaTed to bring stores were decorated and illun1inated, the things to pass, to accomplish !l.~ealities, but display being particularly fine at the to bring the best things to pass, a.nd to Edison Hotel. Returning to the hill large accomplish the highest realities; so in your bon-fires were lighted that burned for own souls will abide peace and joy, and so hours and illuminated the entire campus ; will you be throughout life so1trces of light · while shooting fire-works and Greek-fire and life and strength to otheiB. kept the whole place in a blaze of vari-

' 180 THE C'()NCORDIENSIS. colored light. The illumination of t:he • Ranson; recording secretary, Pl'Of. Benj. round:-\J)uilding was particularly irnpi'€SS· • ·0. Ripton. Seyeral names were proposed ive. to the society for honorary membership Dui'iAg the progress of the festivities · but all were properly black-balled. The the hnn1ense erowd present \Vould J.t()t : ·m·eu honored this year by election were listen -to the modest expostulations of th<€ :: three of the graduates-· Albert B. Van })layeTS; but insisted that several of them r Voast of Schenectady, John I. Bennett of ----particularly Ginebra -\ should malr€ ·: Chicago and Norman D. Fish of Malta, speeches and they had to do it. A~nd ·;_ N. Y. · - ,general~y upon the insecure platfornt of At 10 o'clock the Sign1a Xi socie,ty met bbe sOOnlders of the students. , at Prof. Brown's and elected as president, The nine has a record to be proud of,. Prof. 0. 0. Brown; vice-president, E. having lost but one of the ten schedaled M. Cameron, '87 ; secretary and treasurer, :games.· Colgate won seco11d place in ibe · H. W. Preston, '91. Two honorarytneln- teague, having lost two games. hers were also e~ected. This year the following have received Sigma Xi keys : .J. 0. Stewart and E. F. Pickford of '90 OUB N NETY- BIRD 0 m ~ .. : •· I · · T\ · \ · \ c M .... E,-rcE· and H. W. Preston and B. 0. Little of '91. MENT. Shortly after the alumni c_onvened in TheTe was not a student, graduate or , altimnus who was not heartily proud of · old Union at the last commencement. It · is ceert.a]n that h1terest was never before S<J intense~y exhibited, loyalty so Inarked, or festivities so brilliant, as at the gradua- tion of ibe class of ninety. The exercises · properly opened Sunday night at tile , P1~esbyte.rian church when the Baccalau- r:eate address was given by President·· W ebste1,. to the graduates. 'l'his deep a11-d thoughtful production will be printe(l · elsewher~ in this number. Monday was spent in class reunions a:nd · fr-a.terniiy gatherings. By Tuesday moru- . ing; abouit 300 alumni had gathered t-o · participat-e in the affairs of CHAPEL MEETING. Here classes all the way from '33 to '87 responded to the call and for a long time the meeting liste11ed to class histories and eulogistic and congratulatory speeches. Following these general alumni officers for next year were elected. These are : President, the Rev. A. V. V. Raym.ond, Albany; first vice-president, A. R. Olney; second vice-president, H. D. Silliman; third vice-president, William J. Kline; fourth vice-president, Dr. Joseph D. Craig; recording se<;retary, Dr. W. T. Clute; corresponding secretary, B. C. Sloan·; treasurer, S. P. McClellan. Chancellors -Gen. Amasa J. Parker, William H. McElroy, Hon. Amos G. Hull, Chas. H. Peck, J. B. Y. Warner, John M. Craver, Rev, Henry M. Ward, Weston Flint, David Thayer,, Rev. David Sprague, Cornelius Waldron. Executive committee-. ·Hon. Charles E. ~ . Patterson, W. E. McHarg, L. D. Putnam, P. Y. S. ; Pruyn, James B. Lockwood. Finance committee- ~ T. W. Burnham, Rev. Lee Beattie, John E. Ashe, '1 1 he first business of this day was tiJe ·· James H. Bronson, William L. Kennedy, Jr., C. L. meeting -of the Phi Beta K~ppa society .. Cross. ALUMNI DAY. , 'Tbia met at 9. 30 o'clock and elected tbe followi11g officers : president, John A. : De Reenter; vice-presidet1t, Prof. Henry : Whitehol·n; treasurer, Robert J .. LandoJ11; ,: coiresp()ading secretary, J. Howa1·a. THE ALUMNI TRUSTEE was next balloted for and the tellers, E. P. White and James Furbeck, were kept busy for an hour counting the ballots of

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 131 the two candidates, C. 0. Lester of .Sara- • toga, and the Hon. And1 1 ew J. Poppleton of Oma~1a, Neb. The balloting 'vas close and the elec-tioneering intense, bringing· as a result the election of Mr. Poppleton .. by a majority of only one. Now the • · alumni adjourned to Memorial Hall to partake of THE BANQUET. Entirely contrary to previous experience •. the taules eould llOt accommodate the · throng and many, particularly the class·· of ninety, sat at improvised tables and 'drank coffee out of milk pitchers and . looked yearitingly at tlie strawberries and . ice-cream :for which they paid but 11ever . tasted. Evidently '' some one had blun- . · dered,\ and -the caterer made money out . of the proceeds of unfurnished eatables .. Two of Union's famous student organiza- · tions were present-· the glee club and the champion base ball nine. Grace was said · by the Rev. Dr. Matlack of Philadelphia, and then the alumni sat down to eat and to curse the independent waiters who smiled but. brought no sand \\\?icbes. After tbe.eating, .speeches were n1ade by Presi- · dent Webster, Warner Miller, Judge Lan- don, Wm. H. :McElroy, Rev. Dr. Matlack a11d many others. All were excellent, all . were felicitous, and all were just what the diners desired to bear. Probably the two best were those given by Wm. H. J\ilcElroy, '60, of the New York Tribune, and Warn~r Miller, '60. The banquet was 'enlivened throughout by songs, yells and c1·ies from the glee club and different cl.asse~. Nex~t the crowd adjourned to the ball field to witness the much-talked-of game betwe€n the V.ARSITY AND ALUMNI. . Although Ginebra simply fooled . with the batters and the entire nine played loosely and easily with their elders, still the alumni played a better game than was expected, and in the ninth inning nearly tied the score. Begley pitched part of the ga1ue, Gine.bra going into the box when the score becarne close. :The names .of the players and the whole in:teresting score follows : UNION. R. Mosher, 3b ........ 2 Begley, c., p .. , ... 2 Ginebra, p .. , c ....... 3 McQue~n, r.f ...... 0 Pickford, Ib .••.••• 0 Little, s.s .......•.. I Babcock, 2b ..•.•.. I Tallman, c. f • • • • a • 2 Thatcher, :1. f ....•. ~ 2 Total. ....... 13 ALUMNI. R. Beattie, ·c .......... 2 Mountain, p. · .. .. 2 Naylon, Ib ........ 2 . Rogers, 2b . ..... ·• . I Heatley. s. s ....... 0 Sloan, 3b. : . ....... I Raymond, 1. f .. .... I . Hunsicker, c. f .... 0 Landon, r. f . ...... 2 Total ....... II B. H. P.O. 3 0 I 12 2 2 I I I IO I 0 0 I 0 0 2 I II 27 B. H. P.O. 0 6 2 I 3 12 0 I I I I 2 I I I I 2 2 II 27 A. 2 3 14 :o I 2 3 0 0 :2i5 A. 2 9 0 () 3 3 0 0 0 17 E. 2 0 I 0 2 2 0 0 0 7 E. 0 0 4 0 4 I 0 0 0 10 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 5 0 3 I 0 Z I 0-I 3 Alumni... . . . . . . . . . o 2 3 3 o o r o 3-12 Home run, Naylon. Three base hits, Mountain . Two base hits, Ginebra, Heatley. Stru.ck out,. by Mountain 3, by Ginebra 8, by Begley I. Umpires, George Daley and David Muhlfelder. Time of game, 2 hours, I5 minutes. THE TRUSTEES, at their meeting, Tuesday, listened to the reports of the president and different com- mittees, and announce themselves as heartily pleased with the progress and prosperity of the college. In place of Hooper C. Van ·vorst, '39, who died dur- ing the year, the trustees elected R. 0. Alexander, '80, of New York city, as life trustee of the college. Mr. Alexander is

132 'fHE OONCORDIENSIS. one of the mos:t loyal and enthusiastic of our alumni, and the election is not only deserved by hin1 but will be of value to the college. IN THE EVENING occurred the prize speaking at the Presby- · terian church. This was the firs,t occasion ' that tbe orchestra was heard, and Dor·ing i sustained well his wide reputation. The : firs-t sophomore :speaker was Archie Dou- gall, of Schenectady. His subject was :, ''The Growth of Republicanis.m.'' He : speaks distinctly, but with, perhaps, too much elocutionary artificiality. Percy Clark Meserve, of Bath, came next, in '' Revolution and Moderation.\ While, perhaps, not doing his well-known powers justice, Mr~ Mese;rve delivered eer- tainly the best written oration of the eve- ning ; and the audience considered hi;m a speech. The debate wEts said by many to be the best ever held for- this prize. After _Jnusic by the orchestra, the comn1ittee, con:a.posed of Dr. Chas. Hammer~ Dr. Geo. E. McDonald, andHon. Edward D. Outler, made their report. The audience was wen pl\epared to hear the a w:a.rd go to Mr. Me- serve, and so were somewhat surprised to hear t.he· nan1e of Mr~ Briggs as the suc- cessful man. Percy C.lt:eserve and B. H. LOl'd received honorabl~ mention. This ended the exeJJeises for 'Tuesday. During all this time tbe class of '80 was ba[t:queting and raising the roof at the Edison hotel. Many ,(i}ililler classes also held their decennial reu.nions during this . wn1ner. Edward J. Prest, of Cohoes, gave an easy and graceful oration, entitled ., Habit.\ Jeremiah Wemple, of Duanesburg, was the last sophomore orator, and spoke con- · cerning the '' Russian Liberals.\ Now occurred the reading of the special Veeder subject, which proved to be '' Re- solved, That competition is n1ore advauta- . geous to the general public than coopera- ' tion.\ This was followed by n1ore en- chantment from Doring, after which, while the Veeder men were pondering, the · · juniors spoke. The first of these was H. W. Briggs, of Schenectady, whose subject was the ~'Stability of our Government.\ Then James W. Ferguson gave certainly the best .speech of the evening upon the · '' Character of Jefferson Davis.\ The speakers upon the special question of the Veeder debate were Percy 0. Meserve, John 0. McAlpine, William A. ~fcDonald, Henry \V. Briggs, F. E. Hawkes and Bernard H. Lord. Each of these n1ade a very creditable six minutes' . evening. ·NECROLOGY. 'rhe list of dead alum n] read at the meet- ing Tuesday is probably- -the longest, and doubtless contains names of more promi- nent m~en than any sin:i]ar list heretofore published: H.enry S. Archer, '30, Wel:labaro, Pa.; Obadiah H. Barnard, '4q, Ottawa, Ill.; Ed-ward Bayard, '25, North Yarmouth, ,Me.; William H. Bi~.elow, '58, Waterville, 1\-le.; Theodore M. Bishop, '41: ,. Honeoye Falls, N. Y.; Levi F. Bowen, '30, Lockport, ~. Y.; James R. Boyd, '22, Geneva, N.Y.; Philip Bun :Bradley, '29, Jackson, Ia.; Silas P. Briggs, '43, Saratqg-a ; Warren H. Brown, '43, H!artford, N. Y.; Nathan Bulichard, '25, Brooklyn; Duncan Campbell, '42, Albany; Orlow W. Chapman, '54, Washington, D. C.; John E. Clute, '87, Buffalo Creek Park, Col.; George W. ·God wise, '22, Wellesley Hills, Mass.; James W. Coe, '42~ Dan ville, Ill.; Corne- lius S. Conkling, '36, Mt. Pleasant, N.J.; James H. Cook, '41, Canajoharie; James P. Dennin, '6g, Sara- toga; Edward P. Fancher, '68.,. McGrawville; Walter Farnandis, Jr., '36, Baltimore; J'()hn C. Ferguson, '51, Clevel'and, 0.; John Fitch, '45, New York; Samuel T. Free·man, 'so, Yonkers; Daniel Goodwin, 'rg, Detroit; Hirarn Gray, '21, Elmira, N. Y.; •Joseph J. Gray, '25, Monmonth, Ill.; Jeremiah Greene, '58, Clyde, N. Y.; Wm. M. Griswold, '44, Columbus~.Wis.; John P. Hard- ing, 'ss, Herkimer, N. H.; Mark D. Hanover, '58, Brooklyn ; John F. Hartranft, .:;:8, Norristown, Pa.; Charles F. Hatch, '55, Minneap{)!J:is, Minn.; Hector C. Havemeyer, '6r,. New York; Jcseph H. Heacock, '43, Gloversville; Alex. S. Hoyt, '64,.. Spencerport, N. Y.; Wilson Ingalls, '36, Kinderhool\; Henry James, '3o,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 133 Bosto.n; '\Yoodb>ridge L. Jarnes,_ '39, Kingston, N.Y.; George G. Jessup, '30, Palmyra, N.Y.; Charles F. Johnson, '23; Dorchester,~ Mass.; Charles Jones, '3.2, North Abington, Mass.; Peter M. Jordan, '38, Hudson, N. Y.; Thomas P. Lide, '30, DarHngton, S. C.; Alonzo S. Livermore., ''5'8, Memphis, Tenn.; James H. Lyon, '40, Schenectady; Robert F. MacCauley, '38, Kingston, N. v;. ;. Dan. Marvin, '3r, St. J.ohnland, N. Y.; Ste.phen . Mattoon, '42·, Marion, 0.; David P. Mayhew, '38, De- •. troit; John :Nf«?Clellan, '74, New York; D.ugald D. : McCal:l, '46, LeRoy, ·N. Y .. ; John S. McFarland, ·'~35, Hebron, N. Y •. ; Jay E. McGuire, '79, ; 1 John J. McSorley, '85, Troy,. N.Y .. ; Matthew Meigs, ' '36, Clifton Springs, N. Y.; William M. Mitchell, '3o, New York; S. Sheldon Norton, '40, Rochester, N.Y .. ; John C. Nott, '56, Albany; Daniel W. Noyes, '47,. Dan- · ville, N. Y.; G. Lansing Oothout, '29, Schenectady; John A. Osborn, '61, Brooklyn ; Franklin A. Paddock, , '49, Malone, N. Y.; Theron Pardee, '38, Chicago; Am- •· asa J. Parker, 'zs,, Albany, N. Y.; Joseph W. Parker, · '30, Los Angeles, Cal.; Charles C. Parry, '42, Daven- portl Ia.; Stuart Perry, '37, Newport, N. Y.; Arnold Petrie, ''so, Washington, D. C.; Henry R. Pierson, '46, Albany; Per Lee Prime, '30, New York; Wm. R. Port, '51, Chicago; Lal\fott W. Rhodes '66, Troy; Dan,iel J. Robertson, '76, Thayer, N.Y.; Edward L. Root, '75, Hancock, N. Y.; Robert S. Rowley, '38, Hastings-on- i the~Hudson ; Jacob M. Schermerhorn, '24, Syracuse ; Michael Scofi.eld, '43, Rochester; William T. Scott, '30, Charlotte, Va.; Stephen Searle, '50, Hotsbon; Frede- · rick E. Smith; ~44, Tioga, Pa.; Porter Howard Snow, ' '38, Hinsdale, M_ich.; Ansel E. Stevens, '4o, Dayton, Ohio; John H. Stewart, '64, Trenton, N. J.; Ebenezer · W. Sturdevant, '30, Wilkes barre, Pa.; Fitch James Swinburne, '74, New York; John 0. Taylor, '30, New Brunswick, N. J.; Warren Taylor, '38, South Salem, 0.; Arad Thomas, '30, Albion, N. Y.; John J. Tyler, '40, New York; Thomas B. Van Buren, '42, San Fran- · cisco; Hooper C. Van Vorst, '39, New York; Peter P. Wendover, '18, New York; S. S. Wetmore, '66, Brook- · lyn, David P. Weldon, '46, Park City, 0.; Stephen Wickes, '31, O.range, N. J.; Samuel Wilkeson, '37, Buffalo; Bradford R. Wood, '24, Albany; Joshua F. Worth, '39, Greenport; Henry N. Wright, '39, Pulsaki, N.Y.; Joseph H. Wright, '73, Xenia, 0. The following is a partial list of the · alumni present who inscribed their names in the massive and elegant register pre- sented by the class of ''79: W. H. H. Moore, '44, New York; J. A. DeRemer, '57, Schenectady; Clark Brooks, '65, New York; Irving P, Johnson, '87, New York; George W. Furbeck, '87, Stuyvesant; James Archibald, '6o, Scranton, Pa.; Will F. Rost, '73, Schenectady; David Spra·gue, '79, Am- sterdam; W. J. Hillis, '72. Albany; Edwin B. Teffts, '6o, New Rochelle; Henry Smith, '6o, New York; W. Flint, ~6o, Washington, D. C.; F. W. Burnham, '64, C:leveland, 0.; P. R. Furbeck, ''54, Gloversyille; Isaac D_ax, '65, Lockpor,t; Frank S, Ely, '65, New York; Wilber E. Anderson, 'So, Scranton, Pa.; Robert A. Wood, 'So, ·Albany; Frederick A. BaHert, ''.so, Albany; Edward B. Coburn,. '88, Troy; Alden L. Bennet, '87, Ghi·cago, Ill.; ·G. :S. Gillette, '7r, Elmira.; Edward Cooper, '59, St. Louis, Mo.; J. P. Birch, '6o, Phi:ladel- p:hia, Pa.; G .. V. Anable, '81, New Yotk; A.M. Smeal- He, '67, North Kortright;. Charles H. Mills, '72, Al- bany; Charles H. Peck, '59, Albany; J. A. B-ronson, '48, Amsterdam; P. S. Pruyn,. 'i6o, Kinderhook; Jo·hn Cantine, '6o, Schenectady; F. E. Crane, '8s, Amster- dam; Win M. White, '81, Amsterdam; J. B. Stoddard, '4o, Cheshire, Conn.,; Lauren Van Derveer,. '7s, Schenectady; J. H. Voorhees, '6o, Mill Point; Samuel R. House, '87? Waterford; John: J. Wygant, '58, New York; Clarence E. Aiken, '77, Troy; Hom,er Green,. '76, Honesdale, Pa.; David Thayer, '40, Boston, Mass.; W. C. Benedict, '40, Brooklyn; C. A. Waldron, '48, Waterford; Matthew Beattie, '82, New York; M. G. Planck, '67, Schenectady; Harry C. Young, '84, Hege- mane; W. B. McHarg, '42, Albany; Herbert S. Miller, '71, LowvHle; Amos J. Hull, '46, New York; Joseph Sherman, '70, New Baltimore.; Michael Cavert, '40, Rhinebeck; J. Henry Enders, 'so, Albany; Geo. J. Taylor, '43, Cohoes; James Verbeck, '70, Ballston; Henry Z. Pratt, '84, New York; Charles B. Temp~e­ ton, '84, Albany; Harry S. Estcourt, '87, Schenectady; Frank Burton, '82, Gloversville; Samuel Wakeman, '64, Ballston; Robert P. Orr, '70, New York; C. F. Lansing, '78, Middleville; W. L. Kennedy, '88, New York; H. A. Kurth, '87, Schenectady; W. E. Faulk- ner, '73, Wychsoff; T. Romeyn Bunn, '66, Amster- dam; Henry L. Teller, '62, Syracuse; James J. Long, '8,7, Utica; Louis M. King, '88, Schenectady.; J. J. Jos- lin, '62, Schenectady; Wni. T. Clute, '73, Schenectady; E., S. Harris, '86, Cambridge; Irving Wiswall, '81, Ballston; Elias F. Carr, '64, Trenton; C. S. Crofuts, '72, Hudson; T. C. Bunyan, '72, Ballston; Wm. H. Pitt, '6o, Buffalo; James A. Goodrich, '79, Schenecta- dy; S.D. Levis, '57, Amsterdam; B.C. Sloan; '83, Schenectady; F. B. Richards, '88, Sandy Hill; F. S. Davenport, 'So, Mechanicville; Eugene jaralernon,'77, Cazeno·via; Charles P. Sanders, Jr., '78, Schenectady; W. B. Reed, '82, Moriah; James Heatly, '79, Green Island;. William G. Gilmore, '88, Schenectady; James T. Hoyt, '7-l, New York; William P. Davis, '33, Sche- nectady; Henry Ward, '64, Closter; A. J. Gulick, '87, East Albany; F. V. Brownell, '77, Schenectady; How- ard Cornell, '67, East Palmyra; Edward Wemple, '66, FultonvUle; Emmett Blair, '58, Broadalbin; Sheldon M. Griswold, '82, Little Falls; Norman L. Bates, '88, Oswego; C. E.· Patterson, '6o, Troy; E. W. Watkins, '78, Schenectady; William H. McElroy, '6o, New York; L. D. Putnam, '45, Grand Rapids, Mich.; L.

I I \\ I ' 13{ . ,. TH.~ CONOO~pi~NSIS. Van Auken, '84, West Troy; Alex. Rankine, '6o, Luze-rne,; Edward M. Cameron, '87, Albany.; William Irwin, New York; Robert C. Matlock, Philadelphia, p·a.; James· F. Barker, '74, Albany; J. R. San: son, \'65. Martinbt:lrgh, Pa.; Amasa J. Parker, '53, Albany; A. B. Bishop, '85; Woodstock, Vt., and many others. . . believes that as long as the minds of m.en I ' ,.. ' r are not roused by oppress~on, or at a tjm~ when tyranny . does not overburden -~ people that society does riot adv~rice, but will seemingly retrograde. This ·oratioi~ received the firs-t Blatchford prize. COMMENCEMENT MORNING , The next two orations '' A Legal F:etich \ dawned as bright as the hopes, and as fair : by Clarence JohtlSOn of Schenectady, and as the prospects of niuety. It also dawned·. \'Slavery to Cust'om\ bySidneyJ. Loc~Ilet as bot and sweltering as th.e mercenary : of Lockport, were ·excused by req-qest of heart of their fri_end Wieucke could wish. the speakers. At elev-eti · o'clock, to the inspiring strains · While Doring's orchestra played, t~e of organ and orchestra, the procession of audience discussed t~e orations and vigol·- trustees, fapulty, graduates and students ously manipulated the fans-. filed into the Presbytetian church and took The '' Cost of Victory \ was then dis- theseatsreserved fortben1. On thepulpit · cussed clearly by Edward F. Pickford of were seated President Webster, in Oxford ~Schenecta4y. · eap and _gown, Dean Whitehorn a:p.d Wm. George :0. Stewart of Amsterdam, fol- H. :Mc1Dlroy, the honorary chancellor of lowed with an oration upon ''Individual~ the una--versity. On the stage sat the is·m the basis of Rep-q.blican Government.\ tTustees and faculty. The swelling notes ~r. Stewart is a strong, attractive speal~~r of Old Hundred preceded the opening a11d his well written oration pleased all.. prayeT by the Rev. Dr. Denis Wortman of· T,he valedictory oration was given by Saugerties, after which the orchestra Albert B. Van Voast of Schenectady. His played the opening selection. subject· was ''Patriotism versus Philan- J ohn Ira Bennett of Chicago, was the thropy.\ The main idea of this oration was :first orator. He spoke upon\ Oircumstan- that patriotism, while once of great effect ces and Men.\ He does not believe that in progress, has now become largely ~ circumstances make men · nor that men narrow fanaticism and is fostered by rulers create circumstances. The oi~ation was a · only as a sentiment-by which they may logical exposition of this idea and was· use the people to their own benefit. This -very finely delivered. It received the oration, while not delivered with the best second Blatchford prize. effect, was probably the most thoughtful Henry Glen Dean of Schenectady, spoke · in its composition o~ any. The v~ledictory upon ''American Literature,\ and n1ain- following this oration was remarkable for tained tbe idea that .America has a litera- its humor and originality. It was a ture of value and that it is destined to refreshing deviation from the stereotyped produce a still greater. valedictory. In deliyering it Mr. Van The ''Dangers in the progress of the . Voast was continually interrupted by United States\ was treated of by Norman applause and laughter .. D. Fish of Malta, N. Y. Political cori·up- tjon he believed to be the n1ost imminent, but thougbt that even this would be over- come. Frederick E. Hawkes of Elmira spoke of \Tyranny as a ~actor in Progr~ss.\ He THE CHANCELLOR'S ADDRESS followed another selection by the orchestr~. It was given this year by Wm. H. McElroy, '60, o~ New York Tribune. Like that of Mr. Smith's of last ye:;tr the address w~~ - ~ ' ,1 ..

'THE OON·OORDIENSIS. 135 thoughtful but not tireso-me and abounded in wisdom, wit and . hun1or. These last two addresses. seem to have established the idea that newspaper men make excellent and popular chancellors. Mr.. McElroy's subject was \The Duty of Verification.\ It will probably be published in ne:xt year's Ooncordiensis. Now V\rhile John Keyes Paige of Sche- . nectady, played upon the organ in excellent style Suoni la trombi, the graduates marched upon the stage and received their degrees as follows : A. B.-John Ira Bennett,. Chicago Ill.; Frederick L. Carroll, Johnstown; Geo.rg,e Harris Clute, Schenectady; Henry Glen Dean, Schenectady ; Norman David Fish, Ma'lta ; William J. Harder, Troy ; Frederick Emmet Hawkes, Elmira ; Clarence Johnson, Schenect~dy ; fohn Calvin Knox, Albany ; Sidney J. Lochner, Lock- port; H.oward Townsend Mosher, Albany.; Edward Ferguson Pickford, Schenectady; Elisha Tertius Schwilk, Schenectady, George C. Stewart, Perth Centre ; Albert B. Van Voast, Schenectady ; Arthur B. Wri-ght, St. Paui Minn .. Deg.ree of C. E.-Elis:ha Brown Baker, Kinsboro; Charles Josiah Brandmahl, Schenectady ; Fred Ward Brown, Antwerp; Frederick Lacy Comstock; Ballston; · Ale:&ander .McDonald, Schenectady. The honorary degrees conferred were as follows: LL. D.-. Frank Loomis, of New York, of the class of '6o, and William H. McElroy, of New York, of the class of '6o, D. D.-Rev. Mr. Foster, of Albany; Rev. Alexander: Rankine, '6o, Rev. John Wright, '63, St. Paul, Minn.; Rev. Charles H. Baldwin, of AmsterdaJl.l. . A.M.-Goodwin Brown, Albany ; James H. Crane, Newburgh.; Alexander Hadden, M. D., New York. A. B.-· GeorgeJ. Schermerhorn, New York, Joseph E. Odell. · The degree of A. M. was also conferred upon a number in course. After this long stretch the entire audi- ence arose and sang with swelling voices and joy-dimmed eyes the ~atchles~ ''Song to Old Union\ by Fitz Hugh J..Judlow, '56. As often as the strains would die away the organ would sound again the note, and again would sound the ''Here's to Thee-the Brave and Free,\ showing the depth of affection in the . hearts of students and alumni alike. Now came the AWARD OF PRIZES. \Varner prize to the senior of the highest standing in tbe perforn1ance of collegiate duties and in moral deportment; awarded by the faculty,. Albert B. Van Voast, Schenectady. Ingha1n prize to the senior of at least two years' attendance who presents the best essay on an assigned subject in English_ Literature or History. Oommit;tee James S. .1\1acKie,. '45, Rev. rreunis S. Hamlin, D. D., '67, F. W. :Tweedy, ''75, Washing- ton, D. o·.; Albert B. Van Voast. Allen prizes (three) for the best essays on any subject, from appoin~ed seniors. F. F. Carroll of Johnstown, first; F. E. Hawkes of Ehnira, second; G. C. Stewart of Amsterdan1, third. Blatchford oratorical prizes-awarded to the best orations fro1n the commence- ment orations. A wards : first to F. E. Hawkes of Elmira; second to John I. Bennett of. Chicago. Clark junior essay prizes--first to H. ,V. Briggs, of Schenectady ; second, toW. A. McDonald of Gloversville. Junior oratorical prizes-first. to J. W. Ferguson of Amsterdan1 ; second to H. W. Briggs of Schenectady. Sophomore oratorical prizes-. first to J. V. Wemple of Duanesburg; second to A1thur Dougall of .Schenectady. The benediction by Father McDermott closed the exercises. The ball in the evening at the Opera House was exceedingly brilliant in the attendance .and music ; but a dismal failure in regard to the supper and decorations. The supper was furnished by Clark of Albany, who provided refreshments that, at an exceedingly liberal estimate, were worth about one-third of the con- tract price. This, together with the in1- pertinence and laziness of the very few \

. ' ' ' . ' . ~..:. ... ,. ~··-; _;.;,_.,.,,..,,.,., .••. - .. ~~~;;;;:;...t 136 'THE O'ONCORDIENSIS. waiters, drove most of the guests away · from.the tables. il~ges in the charter and greater increaB'e of funds and equipments. NOTES. Robert 0. Alexander, the retiring presi- . tlent of the class of '8'0, was presented at : t.heir meeting with ~n elegant, watch and • chain fro·m Tiffany's. Attached to the : chain was an exact gold model of ''the . idot\ 'This charm is certainly an artistic · triumph. The ~class of '80 are now at Bolton on Lake George, the ,guests of Mr. .A1e:xander. The document is signed in faded ink by the famous J'ohn Jay-then chancellor, and couutersigned by David S. J 011es, secretary. It is dated March 6th,. 179'7. This relic is a valuable addition tu the college archives. The Batting Averages. The foBowing scheme shows the batting averages of the nine in the league games; The two last colutnll.S show the number of times at bat aud the number of liase- hits: The class of 'H4 will probably be a very large one. Indications point to frnm eighty to a hundred freshmen. Besides the degrees conferred Clarence . Johnson, '90, of Schenectady received :special honors in chemistry. T l i g g ~ ~ . ,I .• 45 § i. A Valuable Document. Through the kindness of V\r alter Ron1eyn Benjamin, '7 4, the college bas recently come into the possession of a document, t·emarkable for its nature and age. It is is the autograph copy of the report of the board of regents of ~ 797 to the legislature of the state concerning the condition of Columbia and Union Colleges and a couple of minor seminaries. Edu- cation was . not then conducted upon an extensive scale ; for Union is reported to have only two instructors-the president· · aud tutor. These received salaries of $1, 100 and $665. As the ''price of neces- saries of life \ was then '' extraordinarily high, \ the cotnmittee allowed the tutor an additional. allowance of $250. The stan- dard of scholarship was theu hardlv as ol high as that in a good preparatory school of the present day. The committee recog- nized that.'' this setninary is to become a:n institution of immense irn]_)ortance to the interests of scienc·e in this part of the United States\ and proposed larger priv- = ~ ~ ~ ~ : t ~ ~ s . 6 .... ..... , rCl Cd .. d ~ ·s'\' . ~· ~c.:> .O•,Q ~ p.. ·~ 0 0 0 .: 0 0 ~ :· 00 ~ 0 ~ ~· ' ~ 0 .~ A.:B. B.H. --·------·---. ---, Mosher ............. .422 .510 .400 .621 .730.520 .430 .621· 41 19 McQueen .......... A10 .510 .400,.620 .740 .• 410 .620 .603 42. 14 B~gley ............. .410 .520 .411 .611 .733,:511 .632 .530. 42 · 23 Gineb:va ............ .4U .420 Al0l .. 520 .720 .oW .5.10 .611· 39 13 Pickfor<l ............ .400 .420 .200 .500 .521 .400 .520 .526 34 9 Little. .. . .. .. . . ... .410 .320 .301 .510 .520 .400 . .400 :521 33 H Babcock........ .401:.301 .. 3W .520 .522 .300 .520 .510· 34 12 Shanahan.. .. . .. . . . .401 · · Bradt ............... 801 Tallman........ .. .. .401 .521. .501 .410 .520 .400 27 8 Merchant ......... . McDonald. . . . .. • . . .'110 .4~0 .512 . 720 .510 .610 .632 38. 15 PATI~O:NIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. . On June 23d the ''Varsity \easily de- feated the '' Schenectady Oitys, :' 12-3. The game with Hobart on our can1pus was uninteresting and long. Score: Union 28; Hobart 5. Our· champions have had an excell~nt group taken by Talbot, this year's class photographer. The opera chairs are being· placed iu the chapel, and the old and well carved benches will be no 1nore. The follo1ving men from the senior class were elected to Phi Beta Kappa : Van V oast, Beuuett and Fish. The games on Decoration day with

THE o·oNCORDIENSIS. 13'7 Middlebury college resulted in a victo1·y for us in the mot~ningby a score of 15-12;. in the afternoon, the largest crowd of the • season .saw us defeated 8-9. In this· game the team was part.ly made up of substitutes. PA.TBONIZE OUR AD'VERTISERS. Dr. Webstet\' addressed the graduating class at the Kingston acade1ny lately. Prof. Wm. Wells will take a su1nmer trip through the far north-west. He will be gone about three months and will go as far as navigation \rill allow, and after- ward tread the Alaskan glaciers. The results of his study in these sections will · forn'l the basis of his senior lectures next spring. He win be accompanied by Mrs. and Miss Wells. Retui~ning, the professor will form an alumni association in Minne- sota. Prof. Truax was the chair1nan of a com- Inittee composed of himself and Professor A. S. Wright and 1\Ir. Cole, appointed to judge the prize essays of the graduating cla~s at the Albany High school. The ex- ercises of this class were held at Harma- nus Bleecker hall, and were attended by an audience of 2,500 people. The report that Prof. Truax read there was afterwaTd incorporated in the annual report of the school ;60 and '80. Warner Miller and Robert C'. Alexander are two of the trustees of the Adirondack League Club, a sporting association just formed in New York city. The club owns 100,000 acres of land in Hamilton and .Herkhner counties, said to be the finest hunting and fishing grounds in the .Adirondacks. It contains Jock's, Moose, Panther, and a score of other lakes, besides .. the celebi~ated \\Test Canada creek, the delight of the fly fisherman. 'Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes .. C IGARETTE stno~ers who are w.iUing to pay a 1i ttle m•()re than the prke charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately :tlavored and highest cost G€)1d Leaf grown in Vhginia.. This is the Old and Odg-ilna:l Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brougbt out by us in the year I8':75- Heware of im i:tations and observe that the .firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMOND, VA. PROCTOR'S THEATRE, ALBANY, N.Y. $wr ttrat~Ctaaa 4uncthu~. Prices, $I, 75c., '50C., and 35c. The only 'fh.eatre in Albany Playing the Best Attractions. ·

.ADVERTISEMENTS. E LEG~NT .. AN~ u~_EFf!.L <?~ons. Our assortment includes a full line of Silver== !Plate~ 11Ulare, Elegant Lamps, China, Fancy Glassware and. Novelties in great · variety. 1fany other attractions too numereus to mention-COME. S. ~- :r .A..l:M:r::EJS, ~a.na.g-er, Y. M. C. A. Hu:jJding, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Printing. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVITATIONS. VISITING CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPES. Engraving. Brandow Printing. Company, 15 North Pearl Street, Albany, N. V. WOOD :BROS., J··. OHN L. BUR.GESS, 255 State Street, SCHENECTA.D Y, N. Y. Manufacturer of SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY; NEOKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~:========DE NTIS T ,========· ~: OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P; M. I 56 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, No. 429 State St., SCHENECTADY, N •. Y. z IMMER & KINGMAN, (iuer~, Sate tutb \!ittgange Stables, I.JO, I.Ja and I.J¢ CENTRE ST.l?.EE T. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. SOLID GOLD JEWELRY FRATERN.ITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stairs, ALBANY, N, Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~bavin9 and Hair Bressin9 ~orlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (UP ST..AIRS.) ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. Finest t\n the C-ity. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET, Ojp. G!o6~ Hotel, s • E. MILLER, JR., ALBANY, N. Y. MEN'S OUTFITTER, Nechw~ar, Underwear, H(JSiery, Gloves, ~c. Jerseys 1 Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods • . FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. Telephone Connection. 34 and .36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY,

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS .·. ClG.i\RETTES. Clu!J, Opera ·and Prince of .wales jo1~ Gentlemen, and Bo.u- • doir size for Ladies, SWEET CAPORAL, NEW YORK STANDARD, THE STAN:DARD OF THE WORLD. FINE C'ONFECTIONS, BON BONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also .fine line o j Fancy Goods and Bonbonie1~es. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEI\LYN, Manager. EDWARDs. BRIGNALL, BO'OTS .and SHOES, UNION HALL STORE. JifirThe most complete line and latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, . ~ll:o~.~ ·F· ·R E'E Watch, . · , I 8too .. oo. Heat 85 · in the world·. Perfect ...... ., ... .,,.,.,.,, Warranted heav7, GOLD huntinf caaes. ladies' and gent 1 aizea, worke and c a a·e a of value. ONE PERSQN in ·can 11ecure one· 1>oge•1ner with our large ~· .• ,. .. va'lua.uae ofHouseheld These l!amples, aa well tree. All the work you heed do 'is todtow what we you to tho11e who call-your 1'dends and neighbors and those about you-that always reaulte in valuable·traoe .1'orus, which :holds for years when once started, and t.:tus we·nrerepaid. We pay all exprese, freight, etc. After you know·nll, jf you would like ·to go to work for us. you ca:n earn from SZ& .to 860 J>llr week and upwards. Address, Stbi•on ctz;. Co •. , Bos 818, Portland, Baine. p H:OTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES of all kinds For Pro1essionals and A,mateurs .. FULL l.INES OF LEADING M.A KES OF Cameras, Dry Plates and Card Sto.ck, AT TKE LOWEST MARKET PRICES. DARK :ROQ;M· FOB \JSE OF CUSTOMERS • . .J. N. McDONNALD, Op.pesite Delava,n H:ouse. '582 Broadway, ALBANY. N.Y. FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING. COLLEGE BOYS' HEADQUARTERS FOR F'l N::E CUST·OM A:ND ·READV-·MADE AT THE LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. Fifth A venue Cutter, Designs the very Latest. JA M:ES H. CROSS & CO., Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. ' • TEACHERS WANTED Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for M'usic, also A.rt and Specialties. Send stamp for application form and circulars of infonnation tc NATIOH.!lL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention this pave:r. CHICAGO, ILL. H ATHAWAV'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTON ST. CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. :Sing:le and 0()uble Rigs furnished on Short Notice. 31 and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot Call$ a Specialty. Telephont Connection.

.ADVERTI8EM.ENTS. :I'ROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, · c HAS. N. YATES, us SOUTH CENTRE STREET. I.J6 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. The undersigned has had eleven year~' experience in . the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this. Laundry is second to none. ALL WORK GUANANTEE1J. Jlumitnre * flarerooms, Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertaining Equal in every respect to Troy Work. Give us a trial; ' to furnishing stud·ents.' rooms. EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. • 'fllFGoons DELIVERED FREE. A. BROWN & SON, CHAS. BOLTZMANN, ESTABLISHED 1829~ · tlotb.t~t tad. l4erchtu1 Te.tlo1, UPHOLSTERERS AND fURNITURE DEALERS, ·Nos. 40I and 203 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY,, N. Y. Pe':fect Fit and GotJd Work Guaranteed. -:- -:~ CLARKE, CATERER BELLER'S · lSiUiarb JParlors. -To- EIGHT COLLENDER TABLES-FIRST -CLASS WEDDINGS, BANQUETS AN.D PARTIES, :. BAR ATTACHED. 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. s • SCHERMERHORN & CO., BAKERS ARD CONFECTIO;NEBS, 43I State Street. The finest Fancy Cake, Ice Cream, Conftciio1ury and everything for Society SupperJ on hand a1td to ·order at short not-ice. VIENNA BAKERY. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. Union Hall Block SCHENECTADY WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. 01iginal .Designs when lJ~sired. C. A. G. BELLER, PROP. Cor. State and Center Sts., Schenectady, N. Y. H ARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealet· in moola, 9~0t1l anb 11tubbtt9, 26o State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, MER{;JUNT TAROR, 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

AD VERTZSEMENTS. ET:GHIN'G .. S . . . ' ENGRAVINGS, ~·131~ MA1(R1Al~,; J . V. V;ROOMAN .& SON, • -··-DEALERS lN·-. ESTABLISHED 1854· . ·w· .·.. . 'f. HANSON & co., · • 335 STATE STREET. Ht>.rdwhre, Stoves, iinwhre, PLUMBING, STEAM AND HOT AIR FURNACES. All Plumbing-, Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to. · I..J8 and I 40 State St., SCHENECTAJ) Y. WE ALWAYS SELL Ooa.l, Wood, And Best Patent Flour AT LOWEST MARKET PRICE. VAN SLYCK & GARNSEY, 17 and 19 South Centre St. L.A. YOUNG, . P:IA,NOS, 0RCANS, AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERA:LLY. ·Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. KEEI,ER'S --11botel anb 1Regtaurant; 1-- 26 and .28 M aicf~n Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. KING, THE TAILOR --AND----...- MEN'S OUTFITTER,: No. 303 .STATE STREET, SCHENECTA.JJ Y, N. Y. ~ lDruggtsts. an~ t(potbecaries. FINE CIGARS A. SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S .MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. . roii. .. E1' ARTICLES.- -DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES, LEVI CASE & co., STEAM HOT WATER ' ' AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIALTY. E C. HARTLEY, • mAgarn (!L~Ot'Ct (irocetits anlr wrooisiOlUl, Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery, &c. Fine .Butter a Specialty. 6oi and 603 Union Street. THE FINEST . • I: I BAR • • I IN SCHENECTADY. CHARLES H. MYERS. Cor. Centre and Liberty Sts. WIENCKE'S Germania Restaurant, 322 STATE STREET. I j I !I ll p r 1 \. '. ' ' . I , I j ~-- r. !

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MACHINE W\ORKS SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Sprague Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. INSULA TED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND------. EDISON ELECTRIC'LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM LAUNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHER¥. THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, ICOpe. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~~!! s~;r~o,.r}~r-f·R·· EE eseope•. i n . . the 'ft\Ot•ld. Our facilities are unequaled, and to introduce our 1uperior goods we will sendFllEE to ONE PERSON in each :Jcality, as above Only those who write to us at once can m~ke sure of the chance All you l1a.ve todoln return is to show our ,goods to those who call-you&· :neighbora and those arotmd you The be- ginning of this advertisement · · shows the small end of the tele- The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to \\-\\'-- ~~~- ,.__= ..::;,- ~J = :---~~ -;:~ ~-==-~ -=- about the :fiftieth part of its bulk. It is .a grand, double aiz~ tele- acope as large as is easy to c~trry We Wlllal.so !!how you how ;rou an ~ake f&·om $3 to$10a day at least, from the staJ·t,wJtla- ~ut experience. Better write at once. We pay all express char~es. lddreaa,H.HALLETT& CO,, Box 8809 POR'l'LA.Nn, MAINE. ANY STUDENT Inclined to enter the Unitarian ministry is in vi ted to correspond with the Committee on Theological Education, 25 Beacon St., .. • ~oston, Mass. A PREMIERE SUPERB QUALITE CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of :two matchless tobaccos prevents that dryness of the throat usuaHy produced by smoking other brands. Do pot a11ow prejudice to prevent you fron1 giv.ing this incomparable Cigarette a trial. It is simply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1pe. WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., 17 First Prize Medals. Rochester, N. V.

CHAS. G~ ELLIS,. Pres't. WALTER McQUEEN, Vice-Pres't. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y., Locomo#ves of Standard .Design for all Classes of Snv£ce, or from l)esigns jurnz'slzf!d. by R az'lroad Comjanz\es. ANNUAL CAPACITY 300. 1843. ~.~\:) . A~ .. '<J~,~D .. ~c, ~-...~ ~ ~...~ ' . ~ THE '•RELIABLE\ . HOUSE • ROBE. ASK RETAILERS House Robes, .. PaJ·amas, &c. MADE ONLY BY THE Co., NEWBURGH, N. Y. 1889. THE \RELIABLE'' LOUt~CINC COAT. OTHER ·~ STYLES •

\· .. 7 •• ' .. ~ . '. !Building· .ALBANY, N. r. fiNEST STDRE IN THE UNUED STATES. Jl SPECIAL NOTE 2 TO ·STUDENTS to. the . - -- . . - .. - fact that we ba ve the · Largest and Plne:s,t I • \ Stock of Ready-Made Clothing, Hats and Caps. Trunks:, Bags· and Furnisbing Goods in· Albany. ~We haY<ea beautiful Custom. Depai\tment a·ttached, in which Will btl found a large stock of both Foreign and Domestic W <Wiens. BecJJt talel;l._t . and workmansllip are employed. When in Albany you are invited to inspect the building and. ll:l~ke -the store your resting place. ASK FOR TilE. FAMOUS 3 ANCHOR BRAND E COLLARS, CUFFS and SHIRTS, -·- • They will OutvveaJ.\ two Ordinary Collars. -·-- • AU Fashionable Styles. For Sale Everyw-here D= . .. . ~o !: ~J~~~~~ RAYJOS II/ • . . . 0:::::::::::::..'-- . . . '-'-- - .. · __ .- ... _ . . . ~ .... -- .. -.-- e e /J/ GUITARS ~::~~~~~// ~-·· .. • ........ ·_ .. · .... -~. W-e l:J.ave a complete ass()rtment of these celebrated Banjos . · and. Guitar$ always in stoek and sell them very low, to clubs .. o,. .· ··.· .. · ... · ... ,. c ~\\CLUETT&. SONS •. IH • e * - Ul 49 State St., . Albany. II I o~ . .· . . ._- :. o .. T HE stock used in the manufacture of this· Cigar· is the most • · expen$i:Ve of any five-cent Olgar ever put op, the rna.rket. ·l:t- · is. really a ten -cent Ciga:r for five cents. Oompetitbn. drov4:) us to it. REME.MliER, The Price is 5 cents. Not lO cents. .,. - .... _... . . ;.;:~: _: ~:.: .. . - . •, ' ';-, .. .. ;, .- ... ~ .. . . . ...... : ·' •. . ·-- ~ • -~-: <'~ . ·> ,. ·. J :-. \·: ; /-;- .:r . ' - : . ~· . . ;. ~- -.-- ··: ... ; . :~.:- ·:; \ .-· ... ,,, ,. . . ,· ' ·~- .:... . ' ' :.. ., ... ' ' < . \ ·' . ~. ' - '·;' - ... .·: \ . -,.,_ 'I '-- ' . I I $ . . \ ., ·,'_ .. \. \

