Volume XIII. N un;ber 4. <!. EDITORIAL, LITERARY- JANUARY:~ 1890. nion ...... 1.~ SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ------------------------------ OON\TEN\\TS. 49 PERSONALS, NECROLOGY- F . ·~ e .. e.., Old Union Half a Century Ago, Edward Bellamy's Vision, so 57 Chancellor Pierson, Jonas Heartt, Sa1nuel \Vilkeson, COLLEGE NEWS- A V aL1rrable Donation, The Albany Banquet, Our Glee Club, Our Prayer Day, The Annual Cremation, - 59 59 59 59 59 Hon. James H. Cook, Rev. Stephen lVlaroon, Samuel T. Freeman, Mark D. Hanover, John A. Osborn, 6o 6o 6I 6I 6I 61

I j . I I i f l I f I I ! I I I I ! ! .l j i 'j ! l I . . I . I l . I j I l ! I UNION UN·IVERSITY HARRISON E. WE13STER, LL.D., President UNI·ON ·COLLEGE, .S·CHENECTAD,Y, N. Y. L C;r\A.ssmAL CouBsE-The Classical Course is the usuaiJ. baeealaure.ate cmuse of American colleges. Students mar 'be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other ·Courses. 2. SCIENTIF:rc CouRsE- tn the Scientific Course ,the modern languages are su.bstituted for the ancient, and tb.e am@ullt of mathe· matical and English studies. is increased. 3. ScHooL oF CIVIL ENGINEERING~The student in this die:Partment enjoys :acl:v:antages nowhere surpassed in .th~ course of instruction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, ilhe accun:mlatiGn of many years by the late: P:r<:>fessor Gillespie,. a11d also in unusual facilities for acquh·ing a practical knowledge of :instrumental field work. 4. EcLECTic CouRsE-An Eclectic Course, consisting of stud;ies selected. at pleasure from: the preceding courses, may be taken :9y any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to ;pursue it~ On the completion: of this a certificate of attainment wm be given. There al'e .also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metalb:trgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special in:form:atlC!>n address HNRY WHI'I:EFIORNE, Dean of the Faculty. Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDfCINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE-Term commences fi.rst Tuesday ,in September ana continues twenty weeks. The plan ,of instructio:n combines clinical teaching with lectnres. Special opportunities .for the study of Chemistry- and of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSEs-Matriculation fee, $5.; term fee, .$100; pm·petual ticket, $50; gradua.;tion fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; .fee for laboratory ·course, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, A'Iba.ny, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE AL:BANY LAw Scrroov-The course of instruction consis-ts of three terms; the first commencing September '5, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albanyu~e as great as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State. is open to students; the General Terms of .the Supreme Court <Jf the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. (It Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each yea.r, in advance. For information address. Prof. HO:RACE E. SMITH, LL.D., A'lbany, N. Y. DUDLEY O::BSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted especi~lly to Astronomy and Meteorology. For inf<n~- mation address ... Prof. LEWlS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. AL:BANY, N. Y.-For information a]>ply to Prof. WILLIS G. TUCK:EE, M. D. t: ! ! .

: \ ' . __ ,.· .. ·.·.,:· ··\ • I' •. '~ - l ' .. ' •' ·: -· . ,' '·, ·.' .. ~ ··.· ... .·· '. ,. '' ... , ·,, ,' ...... . . ,\ . ·,, . ~· .,_ .. ·::-. ·\· '; '. I. ·.:.. .. '•''' ·,. ·····:. . ,\; .. : '· . ·~ . '. . .,, '• U .. . N· ·· I·· ... 0. · ·N····.··· • •· . u· . N\.1:·~-v>.·········E··.···•·········R· ·.·•.··•s: :I· ·.·····T·.·_. __ ·.~ ·. __ ··y~.~ ~··: ., ' .·.·. '·.. ' ' .··. : ' ' \: . : . . .· . ' '' '' ; ·.: ; : -··. - 'i. HA~R.ISON E. WEBStER, LL.D., .P~~siden.t ,, ..... ,·. J .. ' ., :.;,- ·. ~· •'. • I ,': .' .\·, - ' . . '~ ' ': - ' ''•: '' ,- :-.· .• • • ', ·~ • I '•, ~'' ' ·:·. · .. ' ' l ,· . il ,, ,,: . ·, • '1, '· '·' .. ',: .. ... . ,,,¥' ·,. 1. Ct.A.ssioAt.. Cott:RE!E.,....The Olas~ieal Oomse ls the usual baccala;ur~ate: eou1•se o{ American college:;J. Students· .may be-.pernit~oo<t · · to pursl,'le additional studies ip either -of tne otber cOlll's.es. ,.,.,r..t':~· • . .. . 2. SciENT:iFw Cou~tsE--..In the Scle:ntinc Course tbe Jnodern lang-qages. are substituted ~or the ancient, and; the atn.ottnt of mtJtQ:~- m:atical and English: ·stttdie$ls increased. · . . ' , . . 3. Sc;HooL oll' OtV'It. E:NGiNEERIN.G~The studerrt in this. depat•tment enjoys ad:vantages :tl?where .sutpas$ed in the ~coll!l'\s.e -<>f .... ·'.. ·: . ' : .. , ...... :· instruction, in its collection. of .modei:;J, iustr.tu:p.ents. and ·hoek:.$; ·the, a~eumttlation · of m.an# years by the la.i;e .. P:rofe$sor Gillespie~ a~d. ,. · · · · · '' · · · ., also in unusual facilities for ,.acqu.iring a pr:;~;ctical knowledge .of instru:m.ental field. work. · ·. -~ ' · 4. Ecr;Ec~w CounsrE---An Eclectic Course; consisting of studies' selected at pleasure from the :preceding cGurses., I!lay·l>e t!tk;en tlf=. : · .. <. ·any one· who, upon e4a:mination, is f.oupd qualified to pqrs'Ue it: Qn the ·completion.of this.~ certf!ticate: of attainment Will be gfVeli. ';Ph ere a,re also special courses in Analytical Chemi~;~try; ~etallurgy and· Natw:a;~ History. .Fo;.' 1 catal<>gues ·or· for sp¢¢ia.;I itif<rt:w.ati~o(]jn:. address · · · ·· - · · .. ' ,,. ' '' ~: '•.:\ \ .-·· . ;aE~IlY Wa:iTEllOitN.E; Dean of the)~ae1dtY~ S.C:he:riect~dy, N. 1'.' \'• '' t ·~ .. DEPA.RTME'NT OF MEDICINE. . . - . - . . . . . - . . ' . .ALBANY MEDIC.AL CoLLEGE-Term. commences· first ·r:vuesday i-ll: September and continues twenty weeks~ The pla,n of msthtctioa cC>mbines clinic~l tea.,ching with lecrures. S:pe.pi~l o.ppor.tunities fen: the study of ·Che.tQ.istt·y and. of PractiQa;t .Auat()my. . . . . .. ExPENSES\\-iMatriculation fee, .$5; term fee, $tOO;. peJ;~p.etual ticket, $50; graduation fee, $~5; d!i~secting fee, ~'$5; .fee forlahorat():ry course, $10; ·histologicalcomse, $18. For circulars address W1LLIS G. TUCKER, M.. D., ~egistrar~ Albany, N. ~. ,. ' .~.· DE.PARTMEN·T--OF LAW. T.H:E ALBANY L4w ScrrooL--The course of Jnstrnction consists of th~ee terms;· the first commenciug September $, the seeon.d. :Novemb~r 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 wee~s. The advantages fOr·the study {}flaw at Albany.areas great a~ can. be found any-where. The law library of the .State is open to stud!ents; the Generat.Term.s of the -Supreme-Court of the r,Fhir.-d . Department, and all the terms of the Cowt of Appeals. • Tuition, $50 each term; in advance; $130 each year, in advance. For' information address !Tof. HOR.A.OE E. SMITH, LL~D., .Albany, 1\. Y . ... DUD·LEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany,. ~nd is devot~ed especially to :A.stron<;>my and :MeteQ~Qlogy~. Foi'i\nfo:r: 7 . rnation address --.. . Prof. LEWIS :BOSS., ... AllJany, N. Y1 · ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ;I AL:BAiiT, N. Y.~For information appl~ to Prof. WILLIS U. ·TUCKER, 1\!. :0. ··. . . _: . .. .~·. . '. c • :, • ; ••• .. \ . ... ·• ·. .•' '\··'. ~.. ' . : ... : . . ' . . ' ~ . .:~ ·.:' . . ' I ' ' . ;\. ' r: : \' ·;· f f: I· ~- Y. 't'i, ·~1 ,, 1: •!¥ .... )\ . I,, .J il. r·~ C-~ 'ti. ;::·t '·· .,',(~ . !.' I '\:'; .' :r :· \ ' r! :t . · .. -' ' . . ~~

t: ! .ADVERTISEMENTS. C IGARETTE smokers wh.o are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cll!t No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMOND, VA. ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. Finest z\n the City. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET' Opp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T ..A.I....::EJ C>T 7 .505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, CATERER & CO!NiFECTIONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. ::T:Mt:A:C:El TO o:::e.DE :;e_ Fancy Ices, Cream, ':/elli'es, C!tarlotte le Rt~sse,Neapolitan Creams, Ron-tat~ Pt-mch, Biscuit Glace, Plum Pttddi?zg Glace, Tutti Frutti attd Fancy Orange and Nougat Pyra-;ltitl.s z·:;z all styles, Chicken and Lobster Salads, Botzed Turkey, Capo1t and Lardetl Game, Oyster Patties, etc., etc. TABLE SETTING, FRATERNITY D I,N NERS AND SUPPERS A SPECIALTY. ----- --~-~---·--- ------- --------- --------- ----- - --~ --- - '.'Moral: Insure £n the JRAVELERS&'' H. F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods I-Iouse, JII STATE STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

•, .. , .. ... . , . . ,. ;; ,_·, ·.1:· ,·,·: .. :.;,- ·. ~· '.I ,': .' ,\', ,\::-:.:. . ....... ·, ·.I •,:.' '<;.. '·,'' ' .. ·:·. · ... • l ,· •. .. : •· ' ·.· -. ...... :· >:' .. •, ' .. ,, ~ . . :_··. •, · ... . '. ~: . . ', .:.; ' t ·~ .. .. \ .. ·• ·. 1 , .. . ;\' ' \: : . •\· ,. I j. f' I· . ~- Y. 't'i, •Ll, •• 1: •!¥ . ·.·· )\ . I,, .J il ~~'-~ b tl :~i:i. ;::·t .,'.,(·~ '·· . !.' I '\:'; : :r :· r! :t . . ~~ ADVERTISEMENTS . Richmond Straight -Cut No. I Cigarettes. C IGARETTE smokers who are wiHing to pay a . little m·ore than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND s-uperior ·. to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Ci:garettes, : and was brought out by us in the year 1875 . Beware of imitations and observe that the firm nam·e · as below is on every package. . ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMOND, VA . ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS . Fz'nest z'n the C£ty. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET, Ojp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. WHl':!'l ~~u .~A~T PHOTOGRAPHS '.'Moral.· Insure z'n the TRAVELER.S.'' H. F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO Clothing and Men's T .A.X..:.EJC>T 7 505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, CATERER & CONFECTIONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. ~..A.:C:El TO O~:C::E:l ~- Fancy Ices, Cream, Yelli'es, Charlotte de Rttsse, Neapolitan Creanzs, Romatt Pttnclt, Bt''scuit Glace, Plum Puddbtg Glace, Tutti Frutti attd Fancy Orang-e and Noug-at Pyramids ln all styles, Ckt'cken mzd Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, Oyster Pattz'es, etc., etc. TABLE SETTING, FRATERNITY DINNERS AND SUP·PERS A SPECIALTY. Furnishing Goods House, 3II STATE STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. ·y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

.ADVERTISEMENTS. I • • • COLLEGE BO,OKS, • .• ·4· ·: Drawing Papers, Pencils and Inst1~uments. All grades of Station- .! ery. Orders .for special books not in stock filled : promptly at .the lowest prices. HULBERT,. 235 State St., (below the ca.nal bridge,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y . R (OEERT 'T. MOIR,. · (Success01' to John Gilmour,) DEALER IN 333 State and ISO Centre Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Ageney fol1' .Anchor, Iuman and Hamburg-Americau Trans-Atlan- ticd~tear:nship Lines. S'FANFORD BLOCK. R ES'fAURANT IN THE Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, now under the direction of the Association. Rooms especially reserved for Ladies. Open from 7 A. M. to Io P. M. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner, 25c. Pleasant Rooms. Prices Moderate. BOSTON :~:~E-PRICE GtOTHING HOUSE, 3 2o Sr.d.TE ST., SCHENECTADY, .N. Y. A fine Une of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur-· nishing Goods. FI:WiE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIAL 'TY • .. -----GO TO-- L 1. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, •· FOR THE CORRECT STYLES IN Also a Jufi line of Trunks, Bags, G!o'lJes, [Jmbrel- las, &c., ~c. Agent for DUNLAP CELEBRATED HAT. .. . H ENRY A. KERSTE, Ph. G., (@) lP'iJarmarist. (@)) .A. FINE L:FNE OF Imported and D~:mestic. :Cigars and Cigarettes, UNIO::N STREET PHARMACY, Cor. Union ap.d Yates Sts., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. GLOBE HOTEL, J. A. :HoucK, Proprietor. Cor. State and Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Terms: $2.00 per day. B ARHYTE & BIRCH, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD~ Lime, Ce1nent, Plrzster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 UNION STREET, l SCHENECTADy N. Y. 209 and 211 DocK STREET., ~ ' J : .H. DEVINE) Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot- Wear· Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies' Fine Foot- Wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Hail ortt~rs promptly attended to: \ ', ' I ' ~ . : ' ! 'l I f

i -I i \i ! I I ' I HENRY WHITEHORNE! LL.D. '.

r' HENRY WHITEHORNE~ LL.D.

HE~· . ONCORDIENSIS Vot. XIIl UNION COLLEGE, JANUAR.Y, r89o No. 4 T C . restrain our impetuous zeal in this particu..- . HE ·. ONCORDlENSIS. laralso;trustingtotheremotepossibility PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. BOAR.IJ OF EDITORS: F. E. HAWKES, 'go, ' .........-..-----------· ' go, B. c. LITTLE, 'gi, that we may not be the 011ly ones aware of this impending calamity. Were it not also for the fa;ct that for the past several years our savage readers have had hammered EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. . into them an e'ditorial alll10UnCemen t Of. A.ssocrA TES. ~ the waning magnitude and graces of the W. A. McDoNALD, 'gi, HOMER B. WILLIAMS, '92, ~ L. H. CARRIS, '93, f \ LITERARY EDiTOR, .• · · · 'literary societies at this institution, we AssiST ANTS, might seize the fleeting. OP· portunity ana H. T. Mos.HER, 'go, ]. W. FERGUSON, 'gi, G. F. MosHER, '92, E. B. BAKER, 'go, BUSINESS EDITOR. t . _ _ , AssisTANTs. contribute our· mite of uninspired .appre- f · GILLEsPIE CLuB EDIToR. ciation. But· while not wishing to dis par- $ . . y . . A . . . age the literaries, we think that a sym- TERMs, 1.50 PER EAR, IN DVANCE. • . . • . • . SINGLE CoPIEs, 20 GENTs, ·,,.metrical development of the editorux] We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of inter- .~\~·affection requireS an OCCaSiOnal Change in est and information concerning Alumni. th d\t ·· 1 f •t Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Man- · · e e · 1 OTla · a vorl ·e. agS~bscribers not receiving papers promptly will ki:mdlynotify Trustin.g that the omission may be laiCI. Business Manager. . k f th · fl \11 All remittances should be made and sent to THE OONCORDIEN- to au attac 0 . . . e 111 . uenza, we WI . even sis, Schenectady, N.Y. · re£rain from deciding in this New Y ear':s Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter):: 7 .. ;;;i ll Umber Whether OT llOt the COllege shall :BRANnow PIUNTING coMPANY, ALBANY, N. v. d t'h d f A B· t c· nt 1 ·fi ... c WE wish you a Happy New Year ! LooKING over old files of the Ooncordi- ensis, we perceive that custom has decreed, that the New Year's number shall contain editorials upon subjects of mo1nentous importance, and accordingly we are re- minded that the time bas now arrived for the appearance of the customarily trite editorial, urging our athletes to spend the winter in the gymnasium in order to ''make their election S\Qre \to the different athletic teams. But this editorial is· not going to be written. The hour is likewise · fully come for conveying to the college . authorities the startling information that . the fire jn the bath rooms occasionally expires during the winter ; but we will · a war . . . , e egree o . . . . , · o s 1e . , students. But this process of exclusion: cannot prevent us from congratulating all who have any part or in,terest in Union.· College, .. upon the bright outlook at the opening of this 11ew decade. We ca11 indeed wish you a ''Happy New Year~'\ The congratulation and wish may possibly be as trite as our excluded editorials, bu:iF they are not the perfunctory expressions of editorials in forn-:ter years, preceding only a pessimistic fear for the college. Union College has nothing to sadden her now. Again we wish you all a Happy New Year. * * * WILLINGLY, yet sorrowfully, have we found ourselves each 1nonth compelled to devote a iarger than usual space to chron- icle the death of those who look to Union as their etlma mater; and it has seemed

: r' HE~· ONCORDIENSIS VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY, 18go No. 4 T . C restrain our impetuous zeal in this particu- ... HE ·. ONCORDIENSIS. lar also; trusting to the remote possibility PUBLISH-ED l\10NTKL1l BY STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE .. BOARD OF ED!rORS: F. E. HAWKEs,, 'go, ' --~-,go, B. c. LITTLE, 'gi' } that we may not be the only ones aware of this impending calamity. Were it not also for the fact that for the past several years our savage readers have had hammered EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, ' b ,.d. ·· · f into t em an e. Itorial announcement o. AssociATEs. · W. A. McDoNAlD, '9r, HOMER B. WIL~IAMS, '92, ' L. H. CARRis, <J3, r the waning m:agnitude .and graces 'of the •· LITERARY EDITOR, • As,sisTANTs .. · literary societies at this institution, we H. T. MosHER, 'go, J. W. FERGUSON, '91, G. F. MOSHER, 'g2, E. B. BAKER, '90' BUSINESS ED!ITOR. } , - - . . AssrsT ANTS, •. - GILLESPIE CL1JB ED!ITOR, might seize the fleeting opportunity and contribute ou1~ mite of uninspiTed appre- ciation. But while not wishing to dispar- age the literaries, we think that a sym- TERMs, $r.50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. · SINGLE CoPIEs, 2o GENTs. , . metrical development of the editorial We desire our friends to send us contdbutions, items ,of inter- . affection requires an OCCasional change in est and information concerning Alumni. h d.+ · 1 f •t Extra copies can be obtained on a.pp1ication to Business Man- ; t e e ll:!Orla a VOrl e. agse~bscribers not receiving papers promptly wmkiualy :notify Trusting that the omission may be laid Business Manager. k f th · fi \11 All remittances should bemadeandsent to THE CONCORDIEN- to an attac 0 . -8 Ill uenza, we Wl even sis, Schenectady, N.Y. refrain from deciding in this New Year's Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second·clnss matter. . J U Uffi her Whether Or llOt the CO}lege shall BRANDOW PRINTING C()MPAN\l' ALBANY, N.Y. WE wish you a Happy New Yectr ! LooKING over old files of the Concordi- ensis, we perceive that custom has d€creed, that the New Year's number shall contain editorials upon subjects of motnentous importance, and accordingly we are re- minded that the time has uow arrived for the appearance of the customarily trite editorial, urging our athletes to spend the winter in the gymnasiuim in O[Lder to \make their election SI~:re \ to the different athletic teams. But this editorial is· not going to be written. The hour is likewise fully come for conveyh1g to the college authorities the startling information that the fire in the bath rooms occasionally expires during the winter; but we will award the degree of A. B., to scientific students. But this process of exclusion cannot prevent us from congratulating all who have any part or interest in Union College, upon the bright outlook at the opening of this new decade. We can indeed wish you a \Happy New Year.\ The congratulation and wishmaypossibly be as trite as our excluded editorials, but they are not the perfunctory expressions of editorials in forn1er years, preceding only a pessimistic fear for the college. Union College has nothing to sadden her now. Again we wish you all a Happy New Year. * * WILLINGLY, yet sorrowfully, have we found ourselves each 1nonth compelled to devote a larger than usual space to chron- icle the death of those who look to Union as their alma mater ; and it has see1ned

I, 50 THE CONCORDIENSIS. IT is always unpleasant to make an apology, but we think that at least -an apology in the guise of au explanation is due to any who read the Inter-Collegiate as though during the past year the ill- onlened star has been placed by the names · of more than the custo1nary nu1nber of · men whom the nation has loved to honor, but who the1nselves honored Union Col- lege as their mother. The short biography of Samuel Wilke- son, '37, found in this number, was by · 1nistake omitted last month. Higher words of praise cannot be found than those of one who knew him well: ''He · was more truly .a great man than many w·ho have attained rnuch higher earthly . distinction.\ department of our last number. By a · · ridiculous blunder a series of extracts crept into this column, some without credit from the papers fro1n which they were taken, and two of which would have cheapened the tone of a primary school publication. With the last hours of 1889, expired also Henry R. Pierson, '46. At the time· of h:is death he was chancellor of the regents, the highest educational office in· the state, and was one of the rnost prom- inent and respected men in the country. He will be succeeded in office by George William Curtis. * -x- * IN a conversation with a man who was * * * THE newspapers throughout. the country are announcing the probable selection of Charles Emory Smith '61 as minister to Russia. Itisextreinelygra~tifyingto Union men i.;o read everywhere the econiums offered to his abilities as a diplomat and journalist, and the wish is sincere that our country n1ay be so well represented at the intriguing court at St. Petersburg. * * * IN this number occurs the second part of the valuable literary article entitled '~Union Half a Century Ago,\ by Mann- sell Van Rensselaer, '38. The CONCOR- DIENSIS hopes soon to give articles consist- ing of reminiscences of other times and pro min en t classes. captain of the Yale foot-ball team for two successive years, mention was made of the dilatory way in ·which we seem to procure gan1es, aud in reply the gentleman made the staten1ent that there was no need of this-that if arrangements were made. during the spring time, a trip to all . · the large eastern colleges could be n1ade --------·--------- PATRONIZE THOS.E WHO PATRONIZE US. early in the fall before their regular gan1es, l.Ii~eF@.Fy. and although we would probably be defeated badly, yet we would get such practice as to enable us, in his language, \to give any New York state college points.\ The statement was further 1nade that the trip could be performed at very slight expense to ourselves if the arrange- m-ents were con1.pleted before these colleges had :filled out their practice dates.. We do not see why an effort to carry this out . should not be attempted next year and commend the plan to the future foot- ball manager. \ Old Union\ a Half Century Ago. II. No account of College life would be of any value without some reference to those who lived and moved in it ; let us then take a glance at the Personnel of our Alma Mater and the men whom they were training in her halls, and whose names fill her catalogues. This is no easy task, for as I am endeavoring to reproduce the inl- pressions and recollections of a half -cen- tury ago, crude and embryonic as they

'• ./: .• ·.-1' .. ·~ . . ·: :· ( •. ' .• . . . . . ,{; ·,~ '. '•9;.;- ; .'.'t)~·. ' .. i . ;,~3 OJ ' ·t: ... :, .. ·. ·. ,1;·~ .. , ,. : '> :, ·:· { ··,.._,, THE CONOORDIENSTS. 51 were, I have no right to intrude the fruits · of riper judgments and n1ore 1nature ex- perience:. If there were any idols in those days I cannot become an inconoclast in my \ d . . . h d t 1 \ h· . . h t roun unvarn1s. e a .e, ow ever s a - tered they may have been by a rude experience ; if any swans which I admired then have shown themselves to be in reality geese, they must remain svvans in n1y truthful narrative. I have rashly under- taken the difficult task of making a back-: ward leap of fifty years, and trying to feel, : ''My spirit still fs blithe with boyhood, when 'tis not remembering ; It grows not old ; I feel no change in soul. I am a boy then.'' One difficulty of this operation is the • danger of having your 7th age confounded • with the 2d and ~d by the critical reader • who can not comprehend your ''Looking · Backward\ for his benefit. Another and . 1nore serious difficulty is well stated by the author of ''In the Valley;\-\ It may easily be that during the many. years that have co1ne and gone since the eventful tin1e of n'ly childhood memory has played tricks upon 111e to the prejudice of Truth.\ . When I co1nrnenced to write these papers I was re1ninded of the tenderness and sacredness of my task by the sudden death · of one of Union's best and truest sons, · Hooper C. Van Vorsta, conternporary and lifelong friend. She can furnish no more worthy sample of her educational work than he was. 1iVhen he entered college he had all the ele1nents of character which under the training which he received here, developed into a life in which all the sweet amenities of ho1ne were ·combined with unreserved devotion to public duties, and the life of an earnest Christian united with · unflinching integrity on the bench and an unaffected cordiality and silnplicity of n1anner which, in union with his unques- tioned integrity, 1nade him. \facile prin- ceps\ among his associates. His cenotaph may receive without exaggeration the words, \Integer vitae ecelerisque purus.\ His unswerving fidelity to his early friends and associates vv-as a causeof the affection with \lvhich they regarded him, and of his great influence over them. Union may well lament the loss of so able and esti- mable a son and officer. Every College has its heroes whose fame is handed down from class to class, which the new -comer is not slow to hear.. Among the famous 1nen of that decade, there was two whose names were held in especial honor, both being then in the Ar:rny, and both being destined to achieve high fame : these were Ros\vell Park .and Henry Wager Halleck. Park had spent his fur- lough after graduating at the head of his class at West Point in preparing to take his degree with the class ,of '31. He was a n1an of vast and varied learning, and after leaving the Army and taking Holy Orders became the founder of Racine Col- lege. Halleck had left the class of '36 to enter the Military Acade1ny, where he graduated in '39 with the highest honors. His subsequent services as a soldier and an author for1n part of the history of the nation. In connection with this topic I recall a statement made by the Ron. Augustus S. Porter, of '18, at an Alun1ni dinner at Buffalo, vvhich ought to be preserved for the honor of Alma Mater. It was that the '' lions '' of his class were two men who became ecclesiastics---George Wasll- ington Doane and Alonzo Potter, equal in ability, but the fortner excelling in classics and the latter in n1athe1natics. He said that when they had reached the dreaded ''Pons Asinorum,\ Euclids 5th Prop., man after man was called up with no result till the end of the class was nearly reached, when Potter, a tall thin youth who had attracted no attention, took up the problem and disposed of it in so n1as-

52 THE OONOORDIENSIS. terly a Inanner that his rank in the cla~s. as a first-class mathernatician was assured. · · He becan1e Vice-president of the College . and Bishop· of Pennsylvania, and Doane became Bishop of New Jersey. Thus their careers, in which tltey started so evenly together, were finished on the opposite .. banks of the Delaware. reverently up to them, not so n1uch for what they were as for what they bad ac- complished, so they looked condescendingly down on us after the manner of their order, as if we ought to feel hJ. their presence the truth of Shylock's saying, '·'\Sufferance is the badge of her tribe.\ It was a .strong class and was bound to make its mark, which it did. There vvere four Browns in it, and according to Tom of that ilk, that was enough to assure its sturdiness;, perseverance and success. It had Sam Beardsley, warm-hearted, gener- ous and gallant, ~ho gave his life for his country in 1863, and lies in a soldier's grave. John Beach was there a favorite wi·th all, for his frank and friendly nature, too gay and blithesome for his own good, ·over whose too early grave in California, we had a remarka ole illustration of the friendship of Damon and Pythias arnongst us, which I am sure tl~:e venerable survivor will pardon 1ne for 111entioning which I do . because it is the bestaud most remarkable instance of a perfect and lasting friendship with which I am acquainted, and because Ahna Mater has the right to have such unity between sons of hers an1id the strifes . and debates around them recorded for the benefit of those that con1e after them. '' Clapp and Haskins'' was the synony1n for perfect harmony in affection, aim and action, yet no two men presented more apparent contTasts. Clapp was thin, pale, delicate and seemingly effeminate; while . Haskell was broad, 1nuscular, strong a11d manly. Both were candidates for the · miniHtry, and Clapp w-as a year in advance, but the bond between then1 had become so strong that after graduating he resolved, although a mature 1nan, to wait a year until his friend could enter the Seminary with him. Their ordination and settle- ment made no difference in their relations as they were so near each other in parishes which they never left t.llat their intercourse was unbroken until the death of Mr. Clapp in ''78. It is a pleasure to be able to pay this passing tribute to both the living and the dead of that singular and happy brotherhood. To us Sophs., the seventy-odd Seniors see1ned a band of heroes who had passed safely through the ordeal on which we were just entering, and were on the verge Of that freed01n \\Vhich We Were anticipa- ting with so n1uch anxiety. As we looked many a heartfelt tear has shed. Paired off with him were Cushman and Martin- dale, Reid and Hadley, true as steel and unswerving as the magnet, representing the best elements of the class. Hindered by imperfect vision, but steady and plod- ding, overcoming all obstacles by power of will, Peter Snyder made his Inark among his fellows, took high rank, and was always listened to with great attention in our de bates. Of course there are n1any more entitled to mention, but these were some of the men of '36 with whon1 I was brought into more iinn1ediate contact. ' As the eye runs down the roll of '31 it is. arrested by one to which the fatal asterisk is attached-. Joseph W. Gott, <I>. B. K., Teacher, Lawyer, Judge-a name never to be forgotten by any who enjoyed the confidence of the well-balanced, ·well-fur- · nished, sincere, and faithful man who bore ·it-a constant friend, a wise counsellor, and a faithful reprover, his impartiality a~ well as his legal acquirements qualified him for the judicial ermine. A little farther duwn the list, wjth the same fatal tnark attached, is another of a different sta1np, ' . i .. ' I .. I ( I . ~' r·

I ! I . r.!: .I tc'' I: r! t: l. IIi ., : ' . ! ! : : '. '! I . ' ' ' I I I . l I ! I ' . < ~ j i f i i i . ' . r: l l I : I I ! ! . ~ J : J I : '! 52 THE CONCORDIENSIS. terly a 1nanner that his rank in the cla~s reverently up to them, not so much for as a first-class matherrlatician was assured. what they were as for what they had ac- He becan1e Vice-president of the College complished, so they looked condescendingly and Bishop of Pennsylvania, and Doane down on us after the manner of their beeame Bishop of New Jersey. Thus their · order, as if we ought to feel in their careers, in which they started so evenly presence the truth of Shylock's saying, tog_ether, were finished on the opposite \' Sufferance is the badge of her tribe.\ banks of the Delaware. It was a strong class and was bound to We had a remarkable illustration ()f the make its mark, which it did. There were friendship of Damon and Pythias an1ongst four Browns in it, and according to Ton1 us, V\rhich I am sure the ve11erable survivor of that ilk, that was enough to assure its win pardon 1ne for n1entioning which I do . sturdiness, perseverance and success. It because it is the best and most remarkable had Sa.m Beardsley, warm-hearted, gener- instance of a perfect and lasting frie11:dship ous and gallant, ~ho gave his life for his with which I am acquainted, and because country in 1863, and lies in a soldier's Aln1a Mater has the right to have such . grave. John. Beach was there a favorite unity between sons of hers an1id the stl'ifes · with all, for his frank and friendly nature, and debates around them recorded for the : too gay and blithesome for his own good, benefit of those that come after them .. ·over whose too early grave in California, '' Clapp and Haskins\ was the synony1n .. many a heartfelt tear has shed. Paired for perfect harmony in affection, aim and . off with him were Cushman and Martin- action, yet no two 1nen presented more dale, Reid and Hadley, true as steel and apparent contrasts. Clapp was thin, pale, •· unswerving as the magnet, representing delicate and seemingly effeminate ; while the best elements of the class. Hindered Haskell was broad, 1nuscular, strong and · by imperfect vision, but steady and plod- manly. Both were candidates for th€ ding, overcoming all obstacles by power milliHtry, and Clapp was a year in ad vauce, of will, Peter Snyder made his mark bu-t tl1e bond between then~ had become so among his fellows, took high rank, and strOJ1g that after graduating he resolved, was always listened to with great attention although a mature 1nan, to wait a year in our debates. Of course there are many un-til his friend could enter the Seminary more entitled to mention, but these were with him. Their ordination and settle- some of the men of '36 with whonJ I was me11t made no difference in their relatio11s brought into more ilnn1ediate contact. as -they were so near each other in parishes As the eye runs down the roll of '37 it is. which they never left that their intercourse arrested by one to which the fatal asterisk was unbroken until the death of Mr. Clapp is attached-. Joseph W. Gott, <P. B. K., in '18. It is a pleasure to be able to pay Teacher, Lawyer, Judge-a name never this passing tribute to both the living to be forgotten by any who enjoyed the and the dead of that singular and happy co1ifidence of the well-balanced, ·well-fur- · brotherhood. nished, sincere, and faithful man who bore T() us Sophs., the seventy-odd Senio1·s ·it~a constant friend, a wise counsellor, seen1.ed a band of heroes who had passecl and a faithful reprover, his impartiality a~ safely through the ordeal on which we well as his legal acquirements qualified him were j-ust entering, and were on the verge for the judicial ermine. A little farther of that freedom \Vhich we were anticipa- down the list, with the same fatal 1nark ting with so much anxiety. As we looked attached, is another of a different stainp,

i ' . . .. I. , l { ) ' . I . ~. ~ ! \ . r· THE CONOORDIENSIS. 53 yet calling up pleasant and genial memo- : ries of ·•'·the long, long ago''-· William F. Morgan, Rector of St. Thomas', New York , -the adonis of the :College, whose hand- son1e face and figure and graceful and courtly ·bearing n1ade him tl).e delight of . the :Society in which he moved, while his unassuming, kindly and genial manners won tbe unstiued good-will of his com- tive in an unexpected quarter. While it undoubtedly made College Hill exceedingly lively, the subsequent career of its mem- bers proves it to have been a very able class and sho,;vs that its college work was not neglected, nor its salt failed to keep its savor. It furnished 11 educators, 26 clergy- men aild 41 lawyers, of whorn six attained the dignity of the bench, two having reached the highest rank in this State. It furnished Civil Engineers, Editors and Bankers, a '• Capitalist '' and a ·~' Grape- grower,\ althou·gh it is not apparent in what department of the College the two ·pani<Jns. Gifted with a magnificent voice, he was always ready to use it for our benefit. in so:Qg and glee, and when he delivered. the Valedictory of his class his rich 1uasical tones might have been likened , to the strains of a dying swan, as he left behind ldm the hours \When so musical, The d'anee and banquet were our fond delight,\ and passed into the new life as a Priest of God, i11 vv hicb for the remainder of his days he was so eminently successful It wouJd be difficult for an outsider to ana 'yse, assol't and catalogue the class of '37. It was composed of various and heter-og€ueous elements, and exhibited curioi.ls contrasts and curious combina- tion~,. according to the point of view fro1n which one looked. It had its dandies and fops-'' dudes\ I believe they are now called-g()od fellows too, socially and in the class-room ; and, as a foil to these brilliants, those others desci .. ibed by Cowper when lauding ~ friend, \An bon. est man, all buttoned to the chin, Bloadcl()th without, and a warm heart within.\ It ha:s i-ts earnest, steady, resolD:te n1en, inten·fu on their business and not to be fascinated by siren and bacchanal : and it had others for whom our veneral Prex felt , a special interest and watched and worked with spe~ial assiduity, as he always did, like the g()od shepherd for the wandering sheep. Like every class it had its idlers and its workers. It had its poets and was exceptio11ally strong in literary men and ora toTs, while Science found a representa- • last could have received a special training. Some surprises were in store for those who had ve11tured to predict how certain men would turn out; while others had given token of what their future would be. Tuckerman and Rayn1oud, Professors ; Gott, Danforth, Porter, Elisha Taylor, La·wyers and Judges; Morgan, Hall, Tim- low Wads worth, Divines; Wilkeson, Editor andLitterateur, with more whom restricted space forbids our na1ning, have made a reputation for theinselves and their class. It vvas the day of large classes at Union, and we felt proud o:t our members, in which we were nearly on an equality with the oldest Colleges and far in advance of n1ost in the United States~ Southern students had once formed a large contin- gent of our men, but it had been gradually dhninishing till not more than half a dozen were to be found an1ong us. The class of '38 had en1braced 120 men, of whon1 we graduated 90. The faculty was disproportionately sn1all for so large a crowd, but they worked hard and did not spare then1selves, and what they did \vit.h us has always struck Ine as a n1arvelous proof of their ability, learning, skill, and energy. It was too much for two of the ablest of the1n who died at an early age. Only a few could be called up at one time fron1 such nun1bers as were found in our

·.·· ' . ' THE . OONCORDIENSIS. 53 yet caliling up pleasant and genial memo- ries of \the long, long ago\-Wi1liam F. Morgaa., Rector of St. Thomas', New York -the a;(lonis of the College, whose band- • son1e face and figure and graceful and • courtly bearing n1ade him t~e de]igh_:t of the society in which he moved, whT1e lds unassuming, kindly and genial rn.anners . won th.e unstined good-will of his ·com- ·panions. Gifted with a magnificent voice, be was always ready to use it fo[\' our benefit. in song and glee, and when he • · delivered the Valedictory of his e[ass his.· rich masical ton~s might have been. Jjkened , ~to the strains of a dying swan, as he left behind him the hours ''When, so musical, The dance and banquet were our fond del:igbt,'' and passed into the new life as a Priest of God, in_ which for the remainder of his days he was so eminently successful It would be difficult for an outsider to . ana'yse, assort and catalogue the class of · '37. It was con1posed of various and heterogeneous elements, and exhibited · curious contrasts and curious combina- .· tion~, according to ,the point of view from which one looked. It had its dandies and fops-(' d11des\ I believe they are uow called-good fellows too, socially and in the . class-roon1 ; ~nd, as a foil to these briUiants_, those others described by Cowper when lauding a friend, \An l:J.onest man, all buttoned to the chin, Bloacicloth without, and a warm heart wi·thin.\ tive in an unexpected quarter. While it undoubtedly made College Hill exceedingly lively, the subsequent career of its mem- bers proves it to have been a very able class and shows that its college work was not neglected, nor its salt failed to keep its savor. rt furnished 11 educators,. 26elergy- men and41lawyers, of whom six attained the dignity of the bench, two having reached the highest rank in this State. It furnished Oivil Engineers, EditoTs and Bankers, a '\·Capitalist\ and a ~''Grape­ grower,\ although it is not appal'€nt in what department of the College like two last could have received a special training. Some surprises were in store for those who had ventured to predict how ce1·tain men would turn out; while others had given token of what their future would be. : Tuckerman and Raymond, Professors ; Gott, Danforth, Porter,. Elisha Taylor, Lawyers and Judges ; Morgan, HaU, Tim- low Wadsworth, Divines; Wilkeson,Editor andLitterateur, with more whom restTicted space forbids our naming, have made a reputation for then1selves and their class. It has its earne_st, steady, resol~te men, intent ()ll their business and not to be • fascinated by siren and bacchanal: and it had otbees for whom our veneral PTex felt a special interest ~nd watched and woTked with special assiduity, as he always did, like the good shepherd for the wandering sheep. Like every class it had its idlers and its workers. It had its poets a11d was excepti(i)Jlally strong in literary m€n and orators, while Science found a represe11ta- It was the day of large classes at Union, and we felt proud of our members, in which we were nearly on an equality with the oldest Colleges and far in ad vance of most in the United States.. :Southern students had once formed a large contin- gent of our men, but it had been gradually diminishing till not more than half a dozen weTe to be found an1ong us. The class of '38 had en1braced 120 men, of whom we graduated 90. The faculty was ~ disproportionately small for so large a crowd, but they vvorked hard and did not spare themselves, and what they did wit.h us has always struck me as a marvelous proof of their ability, learning, skill, and energy. It was too much for two of the ablest of then1 who died at an early age. Only a few could be called up at on€ time fro1n such numbers as weTe found in our

,, .. ·.j:: . I ' > ' ~ '1 f 54 THE OONOORDIENSIS. I class sections, but it was dangerous to trust , to this for neglect of preparation, as we i· vvere liable to be called up at anytin~e_, and . the professor was rarely 1nistake11 as to the .· right moment to catch the napping. It i must be admitted that we learned the art :· of utilizing this whenever something · can1e along on which we felt particularly wen posted and thus easily gained a repu- tation which was not deserved.. One ;eeviews the old catalogues reviving fa- miliar faces and scenes with mingled . · pleasure and sadness. Much more than one-half of the names have the death mark affixed, a:nd the number increases every year. The youths of 1835-8 have become the septuagenarians of 1890.. .One of their cornpany is striving to reproduce the faded memories of fifty years ago. If we had had an historiographer, as every Class ought to have my tas]{ would have been easier, and I should not have been com- pelled to grope about the dark chan1bers effect. 'rhere was great alarn1. both in and out of college, :and we were sent home after the death of poor Hull, who was followed by ten m(}re at different, intervals. Those who faced the peril of nursing their stricken comrades were not f8'w, among whom I remember two, Wash bon and Duryee, whose unserving consistency amid of memory for facts which \vould be clear as day on the historic page. Dayton \vas among the leading 1nen of · '38, intellectually strong and able i11 debate, with an overn1.astering inclination for politics. He has n1.ade a reputatio11 by an . able work on the duties of Surrogates, the fruit of his own experience. It is remarka- ble how some 1nen make a indelible jmpres- sion on you, often frotn some peculiarity or circun1stance not worth remembering; while others, perhaps better deserving of rememberance, leave no in1pression but only a name. Why do some of my class- mates co1ne at my call with all disth1ctness as in those early days altho I have not seen them since we parted, while others are \vox et prooterea nihil~\ I can- not answer, except that it is the fault of . my own forgetfulness. An epiden1ic of typhus visited the col- lege towards the end of our first term Junior, and struck down several with fatal the pecuUar tria1s of life in ~Oollege· was a powerful incentive '' to refuse the evil; .and chose the good.'' I remember Ledyard, who transfe;ered his ~Ohr·istan and surnames and became Ledyard Linklaen, as a quiet, modest unpreten.iing Btudent, 1ninding his own business a11d intent on acquiring knowled~e ; too much so to be appreciated by those who mana~ed ''the squables of our mimic state ·'' but which he little ,. heeded in ,gaining what an ample fortune enabled him to enlarge and utilize in congenial scientific pursuits until his untimely d€ath. Davison is a name which comes baclc with pLeasant recollections of an attracti-ve, true-hearted friend, faithful to his d u;ties and a credit to his class, by whom it is a pleasure to have been remem- bered during so many years. Cramer was a bright and inter-esting man and a good eompanion, who managed in spite of excessive deafness t() learn about all that was going on, and who has seen from hjs editorial cbair the growth of Mil waukee, · Ohicago and the great West. Noxon and Platt were our Yorjcks, full of dry hun~or and quiet fun, able 4 ' to set the table on a roar.\ ·,William Taylor (we had four of that fa1nily but not oue Sinith or Brown) will ever be remembered among his friends of '38 for his fidelity~ his constant friend- ship, and his absorb1ng devotion to the in- terests of his society, \\\vhich seem to be to him, as Hector to Andromache, \II ' ' ' ' a.TT)E, /Ca~ 7iOTVla ~1]Tj.(;€ 'H 8~ JCaat\Avr;ro'). '' Taylor was not. a bookworm, nor a vot- ary of the '' 1nidnight oil\ supposed to be I ..

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 55 consumed in getting up the morrow's · hill!self, and made one of the interesting recitation, but he had native force of mind, .i and amusing parts of the program:rne, or good common ·sense, and .a k~en observa- . in genuine appreciation of the fun ;- tion of men and their ways, and despite the •. which it was, no one could tell, but all pain of a seton which he wore to ward off · enjoyed it immensely, and dear old Leigh- apoplexy, he gained his degree, and after : ton left with the reputation of having out- an active life prolonged beyond the usual • stripped his mates in one branch oflearn- span, he has left an influence as widely. ing which must have been of the greatest extended as that of any one in his class. :. service to him in his calling. Newman was one of our best scholars, · John :Steinfort Kedney !-how sball I whose na1ne recalls son1e o:f the pleasant- speak. of thee, poet, thinker, philosopher, est reminiscences of our student days, as theologian, professor, legislator, and best one with whom it was a pleasure and a of fellows all the time ! Anything about benefit to be associated. Union honored .· '38 would be incomplete witbout thee who him and herself by placing him in the . hast done so much to honor it and carry chair of Latin Language and Literature, its fame beyond the seas in tby great work and has attained the highest rank as an · \ Christian Doctrine Harmonized.'' Did educator. Thro Lockwood the class of '38 I not know thy innate modesty, :perfect has the honor of having founded the first . sincerity, and fondness for the old mernor- school for the Freedmen, the first step in . ies, I should hesitate to iqtroduce thy the real enfranchisement of that race na1ne, learned pundit as thou art, in those which has such pressing claims upon this rude charcoal sketches of old familiar nation. It has never been imagined that things and trivial events ; but can any anything in the way of amusement could one forget the aroma of that fragrant be made out of the Commencement Heb- Turkish with which thou and thy kindred rew Oration until that feat was unwit- spirits were wont to season the meersch- tingly accomplished by Leighton, good aums that decorated the walls, or- the '' old Leighton,\ dry and serious, yet · talks on art, literature or lighter then1es, cheerful withal, with no particular fond- and eke on graver, which ended in some- ness for '' Literae Humaniores.\ How he thing more to us than \smoke ~\ I got it up no one could tell ; how he con1- . reckon it a1nong my great privileges that, mitted it was equally a mystery, but he having been called to prolong our student did both, and delivered it with such energy . life in the united study of the u Queen of and action, with such fire and emphasis, Sciences,\ we can recall such pleasant that the old language of the prophets, usu- me1nories of those unfleged days. Salve ally spoken at Oom1nencement, if spoken frater carissime ! at all, in a perfunctory style, became in- Three of our class were carried off in stinct with life, producing a very different the typus epidemic, who were among our effect fron1 that anticipated by our worthy best men. Two died within three years classmate ; insomuch that the grave feat- of their graduation, one of who In, Van ures of the venerable President relaxed Schelluyne of an old Albany famjly, a into a satisfied smile, either at the justifi- lovely and promising youth, after a brave cation_ of his penetration of the orator's struggle against a lingering disease which undiscovered ability, or at the skill with wasted his energies, at last succumhed to which his adroit plan to shut him off by the overmastering foe. Nor could I be au impossible task, had been turned upon justified if I neglected to lay a wreath on

. I : I :. j . .: I I . I 56 THE OONCORDIENSIS. the grave of one whose brief life was .full and Savage, both able men and conscien- of beauty and promise-. Henry White of ~ious officers a11d instructors, were carried '39, who came among us a boy in looks off by consumption in the springtide of and years, but proved himself a man in · their usefulness. With great dignity intellect, wisdom, self-controll, and the · Savage united an urbanity alld grace acquisition of knowledge.. Recalling hls which made him a universal favorite .. beautiful refined, boyish features with Averill with the same high sense of duty their meditative look, his frank confiding and devotion to the interests of those ways, his industry and eagerness to learn, entrusted to him, was austere and unbend- his acquisitions and the rank he took, ing, it is needless to saywith whatresult. with the premonitions of his early death Had we no quams of conscience when we in a delicate constitution, we must honor • found that all our petty tricks and annoy- his memory with all the offerings of ·. ances over which we had laughed . so sentilnent and affection :- ' hugely, had been played off on a man who ~' Manibus date lilia plenis, was battling for his life against an insid- Purpureous spargam flares.\ iary disease and whose sternness was Two left us to enter the Navy, John the outward and visible sign of the grim Matthews and Robert Townsend. Matt- resolution with which he was holding the hews, modest, quiet, brave, became a fort till he should have done his full duty Lieutenant and was lost in the East. to us, and then, when all was done, gave Townsend, my own playmate, unassurn- up the fight and laid him down to die~ ing, warmhearted, a lover of books and The constitution of the Faculty secured a graceful writer, left the service, and harmony and efficiency. Dr. Nott's great married. At the outbreak of the. Civil aim was to make successful men; if in War he offered his services to the Govern- striving -for this he left out some things m€nt, and he died in command of a frigate essential to a rounded character it only on the China station in 1866, a noble shows that he was not beyond humqn specimen of a brave,~true-hearted sailor, infirmity, as no. one could have labored an accomplishedgentleman andapatriotic more sincerely and earnestly forthewel- citizen of the RE'public. fare of the youth entrusted to him. He \Sweet be their sleep, and o'er their qniet urn, was unsurpassed as a teacher, and his Bright let the memory of their virtues burn; Glad may they rise-nor let it be for men great powers and learning, his wide To heave their dust or speak their faults till then.\ experience, his \\-.,.ise counsels and his Although these reminiscences have far instructive conversation were always at exceeded the Emits mark~ed out for them, the service of his his \children as he and have reaclied an intolerable length, used to call them. It was the habit of the I cannot close them without saying son1e- younger men to look askance at Professor thing of the Faculty of fifty years ago. Potter, as the disciplinarian, who had Only three of them survive, one of whom shown more tban once that, like Keith of alone was n1y instructor. It was remark- Eton, he had ''the courage of ten battal- able in this particular, that all, with a ions,\ until they came within the fascina- single exception, were alumni of the tion of his class-room, where his masterly College, and had been trained by Dr. N ott intellect,his varied and well-orderedkuowl- himself. Whatever Union had to furnish edge, and his skill in imparting it, added of ability and learning might well be sup- to his dignity and weight of character, posed to be embodied in them. Averill made hiin a \kiug of men.\ .Professor

jil ' .... . ·. ·:1', , . .. . . . ' l THE OONOORDIENSIS. 57 Jackson had a genial aad. unprofessional way which attracted all, but woe to the unlucky wigh,t that presumed on it to take any liberties in class-room or elsewhere. His. love of flowers and his charming . garden made him the chief contributor to. the beauty of College HilL The families of the President and Professors made a delightful circle, where the men were • always welcome,; and around which were • gathered the wit, beauty and grace which Oorn1nencement attracted. All have passed away, but they can never be forgot- ten. ''May they rest in peace, and per- . petnallight shine upon them.\ MAUNSELL VAN RENSSALEAR '38. is alrea:qy doing for Modern Socialism what Dickens novels did to arouse an interest in the outcasts of lJondon, and Mrs. Stowe did by her Uncle Tom's Cabin to bring vividly before the world the cause of the American slave. Our criticism of the contents of this book wiU depend almost wholly upon our view of the Socialistic theory, upon which it is based and to which it 1nerely seeks to give expression if that theory seems to us rational and just, we shall find much to approve; if irrational, much to condemn. Without atternpting at all to examine the book in detail, let us look for a moment at its principal thoughts. ''Socialism,\ says James Russell Lowell in his address on EDWARD BELLAMY'S VISION. Democracy, \means or wishes to mean, Ever sii1ce Plato in his Republic so cooperation and com1nunity of interests, thoroughly charmed the ancient Greeks syrnpatb:y, the givil1g to the hands not so with his fascinat~ng pictures of the time • large a share as to the brains, but a larger when ''the kings and princes of this world • share than. hitherto in the wealth they shall have the spirit and power of philoso- . must coinbine to produce ; means, in short, phy,\ and the ideal State ''shall have the the practical application of Christianity to possibility of life and behold· the light of life.\ day,\ many thoughtful men at different As a Socialist, Bellarr1y believes in the periods in history_, have presented to the supremacy of society. He holds that the world sin1ilar visions of brighter days for community is of far greater importance humanity, and have sought to quicken the than the individual ; that the State, or the activities of the age in which they lived body corporate, is the grandest of all by sin1ilar ideas. human institutions, and should have Cicero in his De Republica, avowedly in supren~e control of the individuals that imitation of his illustrious master, idealized compose it, so far as their activities have for his contemporaries the excellencies of to do with the common good. He believes the Roman State, just as Plato had done that the present system of unrestricted with those of the Grecian. This was competition, of unbridled individualism, plainly the purpose of St. Augustine in his by freeing men from all social and moral famous de civitate Dei, and in a later day restraints in their mad pursuits of n1oney, we have the result of a similar effort in has wrought incalculable injury to our in- the Utopia of Sir ~ 1 ho1nas More. Among dustry, 11pset the foundations of morality, 1nodern attempts in this direction, judging and brought in jeopardy the very exist- frorn the ex:tent of its circulation and the ence of the fa1nily and the State. eagerness with which its suggestions are For this reason he affirms \vith great read and discussed, probably no book can earnestness and. tenacity of purpose, that be compared with \ Looking Baqkward.\ the gross inequalities and \general misery It is hardly too much to say of it that it -of mankh1d,\ that now exist over the

58 THE OONO()RDIENSIS. earth, can never be done away with till the people as a State shall fortn a .sort of national syndicate to take possessio11 of all the means for the production of all commodities, and have full control of their use and distribution. By this n1ethod he would do away with the vast army of individual industries that now seek to build up their own interests on the ruins of their fellows, and bring all the members of the Nation to work together in harn1ouy under one common leadership and for one com- mon end. John Stuart Mill, in speaking of the disadvantages of c~mmunism, incidentally expresses the opinion that if we were obliged to choose between the present fortns of economic life and con1-m unistn, all the difficulties great and s1nall of com- munisnl would be but as the dust in the balance. It is an easy task for any man to show beyond all doubt that our present economic system is enormously wasteful 9f money and labor, careful students tell us that the governn1ent could easily con- struct a far more efficient railroad system than we now possess in the United States at a saving of over 1000 million dollars-- enough to make comfortable hon1es for 5 millions of people. We no\'r have to pay the owners of the Western Union Tele- graph 5% per annu1n on 120 1nillion dollars. The State could construct a much better system for 40 million dollars, and operate it in connection with the Post-office at a fraction of the present annual expenditure. Our gas costs us at present anywhere from $1.50 to $3 per 1000 cubic feet. Experts tell us the government could furnish it to us for 65 to 70 cents. If the Standard Oil Company by combining together a great num her of separate h1terests, can reduce the price of oil to the people to aln:Iost nothing, and still make enorn1ous profits, why would not a system of gene- ral cooperation under one common leader- :; ship in almost all industTies result in a .' vast saving of labor and money a11d greatly :, ji'llprove the general comfor·t of the people ? ·' Along with government ownership of ·I ibe means of p:uoduction and goY<ernn1ent ': ~ontrol of labor, necessarily goes govern- : :ment distribution of the products. ..Ac- , ()Oteding to Mr. Bellamy this should be done ·annually, each laborer receiving ·at the : IJeginning of each year the same propor- . · ticn of the previous annuat produo~. This . method of distribution is only an incident in~ the general scheme-not au €ssential · IJttrt of it. The founder of socialism took · this for his motto: ' 4 Frorn each on€ accord- iitg .to his capacity, to each one according ·. to bis work.\ The objectjon at oJtce pre- se11ts itself to Bellamy's method, that all · do not render the same se1·vice an,d do not l'lave the same needs. He who ser-ves the · people with his head renders a far higher se:rvice and has far greate1· needs than he who serves with his hands alone. But ~fter all that can be said against it, who will undertake to show that the present r1.1ethod of distributing to the people what tlley have co1nbined to produce, is a whit tlJoee desirable or one iota 1nore j usi ? By vvb,at right divine or hum£tn, can amy man clain1 for himself an annual incon1:e of a million dollars or even half that a.mount? He can not possibly earn it. No service he has rendered to society can entitle hi1n to it. Yet according to our best anthori- . ties, 100,000 me11 out of the 60 millions of o-ur people take to themselves over half of our annual product. Man:y of thes() men have 11ever contributed a farthing to the wealth of the country by their ow11 per- sonal effort. Our laws have allowed then1 to grow rich while they slept. Ther-e is no s-nch thing as an absolute right to pr()perty. Ali property belongs to the State, and it ;tlone has the right to determine under what conditions, if any, it will allow the jndividuals of the State to posses.s and

THE ·OONOORDIENSIS. 59 control it.. And it is not only the right, . but the duty of the State to n1odify, or even abolish the systen1 of individual· ownership whenever it sees :that the ·well • being of the people demands it. Ooinbination, eooperatio11, is the watch- word of our ti1ne. Oon1petitiou has been . tried and found wanting. Who shall reap · the advantages of the change? Shall it . be the whole people or shall the already : rich beco1ne enormously Ticher at their · expense and to their inexpressible injury·? • The most important truth that has co1ne to the world during the last 2000 yeaTs, is : the thought that all men are brothers, children of one common father, having • con1mon right and cornmon duties. The unbridled individualisn1 of our day ignores this fact, and, if not speedily checked, will legitimately issue in . anarchy and · dynamite. Any honest atte1npt to free us from its ills should receive our warmest · con1mendation. And he wllo can show to the world, hovv the genuine rights of the individual can be brought into proper subordination to, and harn1ony vvith the · highest well-being of the whole people, ought to be revered by us as one of the greatest benefactors of the race. WE have received an excellent engineer- ing article by W. E. Fay '91, the publica- tion of which, much to our regret, is · delayed until next 1.nonth. President W ebs:ter was pres~nt at the convention of Zeta Psi, held in New York <?ity January 3d and 4th. The Sophomore class will give a dance in the new hail on State street, J anuaey 24th. Thefollowin~ are the committee: _Hunter, .I Meserve, Dailey, Wemple, Reddish, Orr, I Prest and Coons. 1 l I A Valuable DonationG 'rhe Departn1ent of Natural History has received by gift of Rev. 0. B. Hitchcock, of the class of 1852, a valuable collection of ,rock, mineral and fossil specilnens, seveilty-five in nu~nber. The Albany Banquet. The annual banquet of the Union Col- lege Alu1nni Associations of Nortl1-eastern New York, will occur at Albany on Tues- day e-vening, January 28th. A very large attendance is expected. 1Yian y will go from -this city. Our Glee Clab. The last nun1 ber of the Ooncordiensis published an incoreect list of the n1en con1posing the Glee Club. It is 1nade up of the following efficient singers. John- son, '90 ; Robertson, Briggs, Fiske and Adams, '91 ; Trumbull, Mosher and Coons, '91. Our Prayer Day. J an_uary 30th is the day set a part as prayer day for colleges, and on this occa- sion, Henry A. Powe1l, D.D., ''73 \vill officiate at Union. Dr. Powell was given his clegree by Union at last con'lrnence- ment. He is a congregational clergyn1an and is located at Brooklyn. The Annual Cremation The customary cremation of .Algebra occurred at n1idnight on Sunday, Decem- ber 15th. The date was quite unusual and was an original idea, to say the least. Owing to this fact the ceremonies and parade were witnessed by feV\rer people tha.n usual. The custon1ary exercises were enaeted. The injuries and bruises to both Sopho1nores anQ_ Freshmen were more ·numerous than general, although perhaps less severe. Conde, Van V oast and J\IcAlpine were the con1n1ittee. Prof. Loisette's Memory Systen1 is C1·eating gr€'a.ter interest than ever in all parts of the country, and persons wislling to im- prove thek memory should .seud for his pr()spectus fre-tJ, as adver- tised in a11other column.

60 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ======~================~-=~======~====- _--- . - ~=========================================== CHANCELLOR PIERSON. '40. G€orge F. Danforth, LL.D., has · retired fron1 the bench of -the Court of Appeals, after a long and honorable ser\ 1 The Read of the State University dies sad· vice. Th€ date of his retil\'ing was the denly. He w~s P.resident of the Eoard of occasion of aln·illiant reception at the Fort Regents, a for-~ner State Senator, and an ()ld Railroad .Man .. Orange Club at All!any, at which many . The Ron. Henry R. Pierson, Chancell<>r prominent jurists were present. of the University of the State of New '41. 'The :Rev. Dr. Saurin Eliot Lane, is York and a pt·ivate banker, died Decem- the authOl' of ''One of a Thousand,\ just ber 31st after a brief illness from pneu- issued by the First National Publishing monia. He was inllis 71st year. Co. of .Boston. Mr. Pierson was president of the .Board '50. John Roberts has been appointed of Regents. He was a native of Mont- a member of the board of Charities and ·• gomery county and was '70 years old. Correction at Philadelphia. lie is the law Union College graduated him inl846, when partner of District Attorney Graham. He Dr. Nott was in his prime as president. served three years in the war, gaining a He belonged t(} the Kappa Alpha Society. captain'seommissioninthe3dNewJersey He was a classmate of the late ex-Gov. Infantry. He has been for many years· John T. Hoffm:m, the late John M. Greg- manager of the House Of Correction. ory of the Illin.ois Industrial College, and '73. Martin Schenck is chief of the the Rev. Dr. Rankin. M~. Pierson studied €ngineering corps that has charge of the law in Cl1erry Valley and practiced in New construction of the retaining wall and of York city. H.e lived in Brooklyn fron1 the new locks. 1849 to 18tH:!, and was conspicuous in edu- . '7 6. Romer Green was a warded the cational affairs, as well as being president $100 prize given by the Scranton Truth of the Board ()f Aldern1en. He was a for an Amel'ican sea song. From 200 State Senator in 1867 and an Assembly- competitors his song entitled ''Banner of man inl873. In 1860 he beca1ne president the 8ea\ was successful. It possesses of the city ra::ilroads of Brooklyn, but many of the ele1nents of a national song. resigned in 1869, and moved to Chicago as Mr. Green is also the author of ''Coal and the financial agent of the Chicago &· the Coal Mines,\ published by Houghton, • Northwestern Railroad.t· Later he was its Mifflin & Co. vice-president. In 1871 he moved -to \'84. Bish()p is prh1cipal of the schools Albany and was made resident director of at Barre, Vt. the New York Central Railroad. In 18'72 '85. Foote was recently in town. He he was elected a Regent of the University was before th€ geneTal terrn as a candidate in place of Erastus Corning, deceased. In for ad1nission to the bar. 1878 he beca1ne Vice Chancellor and in '89. Culver and Voorhes of the Col- 1887 Chancellor. In 1873 he became a umbia Law School, were back: for a few member of the Stock Exchange in New days visiting their old friends. York and has carried on a banking business '89. Max Sn1ith was in t()wn during i11 Albany ever since. He was prominent the holidays. in religious circles also. In politics he was '90. Harder, who was kept at home a Conkling Republican and belonged t() during the last part of the past term by the famous Grant 306 at the Chicago con- illness, has returned. vention i11 188(}. In 188.8 he voted fot~ '91. Ada1ns has left college and returned Grover Cleveland. His successor as ·Chan- to Hamil ton. \ cellor is likely to lle George William Curtis. '91. Roe visited in Schenectady lately. Mr. Pierson w.as twice n1arried. His '93. Shauahan, who has been ill with second wife wa,s Mrs. },annie Mott of typhoid fever, is back. Hamilton. He leaves one son, Henry R. '93. Roy, also a viGtiin to typhoid, has Pierson, Jr., his partner in business. H€ returned. left an a1nple foetune.

THE OONCORDTENSTS. 61 --~-- .. ·-======== '11. Jonas Heartt,. a pron1inent manu- facturer of Troy, die~L in that city on the 3d ·inst. - '3'7. Samuel Wilk€son, the secretary of the Northern Pacific B. R. Company, died . at his home\rn New York city on l)ecetn- ber 2d. He was bor-1 at Buffalo, May H, 1817, and admitted io the bar in 1~40. He has been a very pr·ominent journalist, being at one time the principal owner of 1 the Albany Journal; he was also on the · editorial staff of the New York Tribune. He aided greatly in tbe sale of the vvar- loans under Jay OooJc. While in college he was a Sigma Phi. He leaves a widow,. · two sons an.d a daughter . . _ '41. The Ron. Janu~s H. Cook, of Can- . ajoharie, N. Y., fornJ:er~Iy district attorney of Montgomery coun i:y, and county judge, and a wealthy and i:riSuential citizen, died · on Sunday, July ~~·d, aged sixty-nine . years. ·; '42. The Rev. Stephen 1\faroon, for twenty-five years a R~1issionary in Siam, afterward president tJf Biddell University at Charlotte, N. 0., died Aug. 15, 1889, at Mal'ion, 0., aged seventy-three. .. .._,· '50. Sarnuel rr ~ Free1nan recently died at his hon1e in WeE;tchester county of . .. congestion of the lurt~s. He always took a lively interest in the affairs of his Ahna Mater and was aln1ost always present at the annual . alumni ~atherings at Com- n1ence1nent tiin.e. He was a lawyer of son1e note and \Vas Jf.or some time a lec- turer on law at UniOIL '58. J\1ark D. Hanover, for n1any years proprietor of the Oine:innatti Times-Star, died recently at his h OJl1.e in Brooklyn. \11. John A. Osb()I'n, a lawyer of con- siderable n0te, and Onited States com- missioner, died recentLy. FOR CHOICE <rut jflowers, FLORAL DESIGNS OR BASKETS, -GOTO- EGER, the Florist, 275 State St. Greenhouses,. 825 Union Street. Flo~ers furnished for parties at short notic:e. WIENCKE'S Germania Restaurant, 322 STAtE STREET. Prof. Lolsette's E DRY DISCOVE,RY ANDTRAI NliO METHOD In spite of adulterated imitat.Io:ns :which miss the theory, and practical results of tJ.e O-riginal, in spite of the grossest misrepresent1ttions b-y envious \vould.be competitors, and in spite of ''base n..ttempts to rob\ him of the fruit of his labors, (all of w :hie h. demonstrate the undoubted superiority and popuiarit~ of !J.is teachi?g)_, Prof. Loisette's Art of Never IfoJ:\gettmg ts reeogmzeu to-day in both Hemispheres as riur:king an Epoch in Memory Culture. His Prospectras (sent post free) gives opinions of people in all parts of,t.he g:lobe whohave act- ually studied his System by ·cor-res~ondence, showing that his System is ~tsed only wh-ile being 8tuClied, not aftet·wa?·ds; that any book can :be.. learned in a .~in(}le readino, mind-wandering c'l.tred=> tl?:c. For Prospectus., Terms and •restimonials address Prof'. A. LOISE'f1TE, 237 Bi:fth A venae, N. Y PROCTOR'S THEATRE:, ALBANY, N. Y. Prices, $I, 75c., soc., and 35c. The only Theatre in Albany Playing the Best Attractions. ..

. I , I . ' l :I I I I j l I i I I l ! I I .ADVERTISEMENTS. E LEG~NT __ AN~ u~_EFl!.L ~9oos. Our assortment includes a fulllineof $il\Jet== ~lateb Wlare, Elegant 'ILamps, China, Fancy Glass·ware and N(:)-velties in great . variety, lVlany other attractions too nuiDer0us to mention-COME. S. ·:e. ;r ...8-~ES., ~a.na.g-er, Y. M. C. A. Building, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WOOD BROS., . 255 State Street, SCH E.1V E C T A.lJ Y, N. Y. SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, :HOSIERY, '· NECK·WEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. :, DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~----::=--0 EN TIS T ,========~ OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. lJI. TO 4 P. !PI. I s6 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, Printing .. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVlTAT[ONS. VISITING CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPES. Engraving. Brandow Printing Company, I 5 North Pearl Street,. Albany,. N. Y. ] . OHN L. BURGESS, Manufacturer of SOI_jiD GOLD JEWELRY FRATERNITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS;. No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stai:r.s,. ALBANY,. N. Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~havin~ and Hair 'Bressin~ ~ arlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, • (UP STAIRS.) DE LONG'S Ladies' and Gentlemen's Diui11« Rooms, I02, I04 and Io6 Wall Street. No. 429 State St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. z IMMER & KINGMAN, s • E. MILLER, ]R., (iuery, ,Sale anb ~tdJange $tat1:lcs, MEN'S OUTFITTE:R, Neckzvtar, Underwear, Hosiery, G!oo~s-, ~c. IJO, I.J2 and IJ4 CENTRE STREET. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts~ Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. · FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. Telephone Connection. .34- mzt! 36 MAIDEN LAlfE, AL_BA.UY .

ADVERTISEMENTS. ~~======~============~==~=============-===-=========~ THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS .. CIGARETTES. . UR.· NE)V'FR'E~ Solidi .......... Watcll' · · 8 , Steo.eo. He•t 8IJ '..!D•Il~\'IWatcn the world. Perfect .nmtakeeoer· .• Warrimtedheavy, GOLD huntin!f cues. Ia dies' and gent s ·sizes, works: and cases of ue. ONE PERSO~ in ·can secure .one tn~l'!thiFir With our 'large v1uuuuu: <>fHouseheld -.......-:~'!iaJnPJles. These samples, as well Cree. A.H the work you heed do is to show What we . you to those who call-your friends and neighbors and those about yon-tllatalwayll results in valuable trade for us, which holds for yearll\when once started, and t.lUs we a1•e repaid. We pay all exp1·ess,. :freight, etc. After you know all, if you would like to go to work for us, you can earn. from S~O to $60 per week and upwards. . Address, Stin•~.n dli <Jo., Box 81~, Portland, Maine. SPECIAL FAVOURS. pHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES of all kinds :for Professionals and Amateurs. Club, ()pera an.d Prince o/ Wales for Gentlet1ten, and Bou- FULL LINES oF LEADING :MA.KEs oF doirsizeforLadies, Cameras, Dry Plates and Card Stock, SvVE.ET CAPORAL, NEW YORK STANDARD THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD~ FINE CONFECTIONS, BON HONS AND CHOCOLATES. A !so Jine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbflnieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. - Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, Manager. EDWARD s. BRIGNALL, BOOTS a1/ld SHO,ES, UNION HALL STORE. ~The nzost complete line and latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRICES. DARK ROOM FOR USE ·oF CUSTOMERS. .J. N. McDONNALD, Opposite Delavan House. 582 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. FALL AND WINTER CLOTHING. COLLEGE BOYS' HEADQUARTERS FOR FINE CUSTOM AND :RiEADY·MADE AT THE LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. Fifth Avenue Cutter·, Designs tJze very Latest. JAMES H. CROSS & CO •• Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. ' • TEACHERS WANTED Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for Music, also Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application forrn and circulars of information to !fA TIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTON ST. CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. ,,.~ 31 and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot Calls a Specialty. Telepho~te Connection.

AD VERTISlJJMENTS. - ---·-·---·--- --- -------------------~----~---~--------=--- TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTRE ST.fi'EET. eRAS. N. YATES; z36 State Street, Sch(!nectady, N. Y. The undersigned has had eleven years' experience in i the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- · IJurnitnre * fj'arerooms~ .tion of this Laundry is second to none .. ALL WORK GUARANTEED~ Equal irz every respect lo Troy W11rk. Give us a trial . EMMOTT H OWD, Proprietor. A. BROWN & SON, ES'i'.AELISHED 1!82!J. UPHOLSTERERS AND fURNITURE DEHLERS, . 302 STA T.E ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CLARKE, CATERER -TO- WEDDINGS, BANQUETS A.ND PARTIES, 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. THE FINEST CHOCOLATES, BONBONS • AND CONFECTIONERY made .fresh daily. Also the largest assortment of .Fancy . Cakes for Parties or Suppers in the city, made at short notice. BAKERS, SCHERMERHORN & CO., 112 WALL S'rREET, 431 ST A 'l 1 E STREET. Beds,. Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertaining to furnishing students' rooms. . ~GOODS DELIVERED FREE. eRAS. ROL'I'ZMANN, Nos. 20I and 203 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Peifect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. -:- -:- WILLIAM PAASCREN, Cor. Liberty and Centre Streets. MILWAUKEE AND ROCHESTER LAGER AND FRESH ALE. A First-Class Lunch Counter Attached; also Pool and Billiard Tables. ··-·,···.···-· --;;;~\!./ ·.;, ..,~(-; . '\' ~;~~ '•' 4C;: .. ; '•' •. , ·~· HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Jlloots, -S~ot.s an~ J!tubbtr.s, 26o State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. wILSON DAVIS, WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVIT AT:fONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. Original Designs when Desired. MEJWIIAN'f TAILOR, j 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

' .. ADVERTISEMENTS. ESTABLISHED i854 .. · J ... V. VROOMAN & SON, --------DEALERS IN--. H~rdw(\re, Stoves, Tinw~re, PLUMBING, STEAM AND HoT AIR FuR~ AcEs. All Plumbing, :steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to. I38 and I 40 State St., SCHENECTADY. AT LOWEST MARKET PRI.C-E. VAN SLYCK & GARNSEY, I7 and 19 South Centre St. LA .. YOUNG, • PIANOS, 0ROANS, A.ND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLY. Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. KEELER'S ~-11botel anb 1Reetaurant, 1-- 26 and 28 Maiden Lane, EUROPEAN PLA.N. ALBANY, N. Y. KING, THE TAILOR --AND·-- . MEN'S~ OUl-FITTER, No. 303 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ETCHINGS, .. ~: ENGRAVINGS, l1~1'~:MA1(RJA:l~. CAR ·w· · .. T. HANSON & CO., • 335 STATE STREET. ]Druggists anb tlvotbeca rtes. FINE C:IGA.RS .A. SPFJOlALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOILET ARTICLES.- -DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIALTY. E. c. HARTLEY, DEALER IN ~l)oicc (&roccrit£f anh lllronision.s, Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery, &c. Fine Butter a Specialty. 6or and 6o3 Union Street. Grain Threshers. unequaled in capacity for sep~ arating and cleaning. Combined Grain and Clover Thre§hers fully equal to regular grain machines on grain, and a. genuine Clover Huller in addition. Two Speed Traction a:nd Plain Engines. 4 to 15 Horse Power, positively the most desirable for Lightness, Economy, Power and Safety. Boiler has horizontal tubes, and is therefore free from the obj~ctionable features of vertical boilers. Horse Powers, both Lever and Endless Chaln.. All sizes. Send ror catalogue. Address , - THE WESTIN6HOUSE CO~~ Schenectady, N.Y.

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MACHINE 11/0RKS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Sprague Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. INSULATED WIRE AND CABLE<S, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND--- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. - s CHENECTADY STEAM LAUNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHERY. TBOlVIAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~~~!! 3 ~~·~ .. ~~tf·REE ~~~ es«!opes 1 ·n · the woJ•Id. Out• facilities are unequalt>d, and to introduce our superior goods we will ae>ndFHEE .,. tooNE PimsON m each locoolity, as above Only those who write to us at once can make sure of the rhnnee .All you have to do m return is t(} show our goods to those Vl'ho call-your neighbors and th••l'le around you The be- gfmlin~r of this advertisement shows the small end of the tele- •e.ope. The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to about the fiftieth part of its bulk. It is .a gmnd, double size tele- scope, as lai'geas i!J easy to carry We will also show you lrowrou can make from $3 to$1\0 a day at least, frolllthe stal·t,with- ou t experience Better write at once. We pay all e.xpress charges. Address, H. HALLETT & CO., Box: @~0 9 POR'ILAND, MAINE. PREMIERE QUALITE CIGARETTE. A SUPERB ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos prevents that dryness of the throat usually produced by smoking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving this incomparable Cigarette a trial. It is shuply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1 pe. WlVl. S. KIMBALL & CO., I7 First Prize Medals. Rochester, N. Y. . \ '' . ',•. I ·. ,. ' .. ·-, . .:·\ : ':-'

- ADVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MACHINE IVORKS, SCHENECTADY, ·N. Y. ... ... ... S.prague Electric Motors, EDisnn Unde,rgrouud Condunors • INSULATED WIRE AND GABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -A.ND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM lAUND'RY AND BONNET BLEACHERY. THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 2 ~;r~.t: 1 ~~ 1 -F.R E'E e!Oit!opes 1 •• · • the \W'ot•.Jd. Our facilities are unequa.lt>d, and to introduce our SU}H'rior lW\dswe will B!'ndFitEE , .. to<>NE Plm;-o:-J m l'ach loc•ality, as above Only those who write to us at once ran make Rure of the rhtmc·e All you ha\·e to do m return is t(} shrnv our goods to those '\rho cnll-yout· nei~rhbors and th•<l\<' around you The be- grnning- Clf this advertisement shows th<> small end of the tele- scope. The following cut gives the appearance ofit reduced to about thP fiftieth part of its bulk. It is .n grand, double size tele- scope,tJS I arge as is easy to carry We Will also show you how ,rou can run ke from $3 to $10 a day at 1 !'ast, from the start,with- out exp-erit>nC'e Better write at once. \\Vc pay all express charges. tLddress, H. HALLETT & <'0., Box 8!i!'!10, POR'l'l.ANil, MAIN!i:. A SUPERB PREMIERE QUA LITE CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos prevents that dryness of the throat usual-ly produced by smoking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving this incornparable Cigarette a trial. It is sin1ply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the pipe. WM. S. KIMEALL & CO., IJ First Prize Medals. Rochester, N. Y.

' _-, .',-, -·. . ' . ·. '·· .. . 'I ·'' .. . . ' - ~~ • ' ,1 •• :· • ... '. ' • ·' \ f, ' •• ~- t ' ' :_.\ ~;. :•: _:... .. _ . ' ' . ' ---'... . ~~it-.: .... , ~. _\~:. ' :.: ' -. ' ' ~ . ' ~ ._ '• -1 ': • '·~. ' ~ '.': • ~·' I - ' • . ,. . . / ~ _. ... \ . \ .. . ~' . ~~ ·,;-· . ·. c···a· .A··s .. G··. :r:'LLts· p• . ' ·· ' . ~ · •• ··'• :go·. . ..; , \f(:!S t. . ·. T·.E· .. R M .. · g· t:rE· .E· 'N v·· .• · p· · .,. WA!;..· .· ·.· ... ~.. · c .u\J! ·. · .. , ··1ce-. rest~ ' ( '\ ' . . ·;, \ EDWA.RP ELLIS, Treas .. ALBERT J. PirKIN, Supt •. · ·s: ··c:· ~:H·····E· .. · N\··.· .... E. c· .. , .. ·· A··.·o·· ·y·· L·. ·o· :·c:· ·o>M·· ... ·o···r· .. liv~ ·E·... ·w·; ;.··o· ·a· ·K\ ··s· ' ' •. ! ' ' ..•• ·. • •• •. • ·• • ' . • : • • .. > ; ' , • • , • . i ' S .. ·C· H· .. ·:.·E······N·····Ei··cT····A···D···y··\· N····.·, Y···. · . ' ' ' ',, . . : ' · ... ·· ' : ' ' . , . . '' . ' ' Loc(}ntotiveS of Standard Design for all Classes of St11JZ·ce, o·r ./rpm Deszgns furnzsfte.d by Railroad C omjan£~s,. ' _', ·' ASK :RETAlL'EHS ~IADE ONLY BY THE 1889. :Co.,. T.H·E '':RELlA.BLE' 11 LO•UNCINC C()AT •. NEWBURGH. N. ll'. ' .. ' J ' ' OTHER:. ~ STYLE;S.

\ ...... CHAS. G. ELLIS, Pres't. WALTER McQUEEN, Vice-Pres','t, EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS~ SCHENECTADY, N. Y., · Locomot£ves of Statzdard Des£gu for all Classes of .Se1v£ce, or jrom Des-igns furn-ished by· Ra-ilroad Companies. 1848. AN·N·UAL ~cAPACI;TY .300. 1889. ASK :RETAliLERS Lounging Coats, House Robes, Pa;·amas, &c. Co., TH:e \RELIABLE'tl LOUNCI.NC COAT, NEWBURGll, N.Y. OTHER • STYLf:.S.

' . : - ~. l . I ·. . I .; . l .· ' ' i : : l' I' .. F'·. J, ... · \. L:~ ... ··~:.·· .. ·.· .. i·', L ·C·:.· .. :~ •.. .! •\•. :.j .' 4 ',•, ~ ,· ... ; . . . . ' . _ .. ~~~ I; .. ! .·· ... l .,. '• \ :L. I, ·.J , j ·. -·--·,.' l·' ' . ,· .· ... ::;:: . .~· .· . ..._ ,· 'i, ·: ' . ·..-·,-·-··· ,. ' ' ic' i.· l . j . I . ~ .. l ;·.- ,. ' I· , , . \' I l t.·_· .. ·. ' . . . : ~ I' I : .. , · .... . -r ·, ' .. r:· .. . J·: L - r . I I l >: .. ... · .......... -- r·:_-_ : ... ,. ~-··. ; ' . r< I . . . .. f .•. ·, j . I I. f . i . 1:· I . . . . •· (:{_ : f .. I ~· . . . : . . -, ~ ' '' ' - ~· :. .;'_ ·- · ..•. ' .. ,: : . ' . - <·. I >:::.~ : ... <· ' . ~ .. . . '.: .·.,.,. ··' I : i. I{' ASK FOR THE FAMOUS ·: . • y-·· . ,'·' ,\ ·, . .' .. ,, . ' .. · '. ·· .. ;.~:...~:· :.:.' . \ > ·- .• - :~' I ~ ''• .. •'. '' . ; ... .. ,. ' I I' ,' . .. ' ~ ,\ ... \.~ .... ' /,; .~ •' • • _, > >I;' ~ ~ ; - . ' . -~. .' ' . ~ ·.• .. .. -. . ~ . . . . -. ' _. . .. ' - . ,' \·.: • - \# • • • \ ·'_: '.\ • • .., ,.... • ' •'\ ·\ '. :•' ·:·,· .. · .... . . .. ~ . '·•:' .. ··-:' . ' .. ·, . -~ ''• ''·:· ·\+:' ' .,. .... . . .;,. -~- . . - .· : .. ;,. ..• . . / . ..... ) ··-~ .. .• w, ·.· ., . : · ... :~. ' : ' • •' -> I '-' ' ~ : ·:·.:· . . . -.: .. ', ,· .. . ,_,· . : ' . .· :· . . ::. ·.··. ' $uilciin~i ' ~ . ... j • • .... ',. ' • • • • <-f•, ·· · .r:I'N·,E· ·-s· · ·T· ·.. :s·y· .n~R· :E •I·N· · ··fl;I'E · iUll<t:t~E-;f1: · :\y··.···a· · r.,, ··· . r.' ~ . : • . ·.. U; : · : · :H ·· :UU.l· ·<~~.}~· .. :.ft ':~~:* · II s. ··r .. E·.·· (lf nL· 'N·o· ... · 'T,.·E·· .· T:O STUDENTS to·the 11 \J lJ{ > £act tha.t we ha\e t.he ~ • : ·.-c: ;• .:··.--· . . :.·.: . :Sto:cl~ of Ready-Made· ;Cl'othhtg, Hats .and (~~ps, tt~nks, Bags · . and Furnishin;g ·Goods .in Alb;;tn y. ~We have a be~utiful (,JU:stom Department atta(:}lle~:l~ in which wlll.be found ·f;t large stock of both Fereign and Domestic Woolens. nest t~lent ·a11d: workmanship are employed. · WP.en in -1\dbany you are invited to inspect the 'l?B.ilding and. make the stare your resting place. . \ .. ~ - : . : · r· ··.liE . stock used in the m:anufactuce .. ;(!)f.ithJs Cigar is the most . · . : · • y;X;pensive of any fiv~·cent ··oigar ~v.er·put ~an the p1_arket. . .It · ' · , . • · 1s really a ten-cent Cigar for five cent~. Oompetltion drove .-us· to it. ·· · . . ':\· . J . . ~ ' . ' -. ·'· ',' -~';.' . .... _- ... ·~~: .·:~~- •' ::!:~·A·· N· a· H·o··R:·. BR· .... ·A· N. ···n· E··_ .... · .. =· .. ·· ..... ·· ... ·.· ··.· .. · .... : ... ' · .. : ·~ ·._· .... · ·.· ·.···· COLLARS, CUFFS and SHIRTS, .-:- _They will Outweax: two Ordi~ary Collar~, - -:· All Fashionable Styles~ For Sale Everywhere. · ' ~,· ',' > ' ' . -~ ..... ·· ... :.- - ·. ', .. · S ······r·· ;R ....... A· ·'l:s··y:··r ... . . ''. ' ... . ; . i . ~ .' ~~ ·\. ;'• ... :· . : ., . : ~. > ' • ~ •• ' •• ! • ' ·: • •• ·, ~ : ; : • ' • . • . ' - ., - ·- . '' . .......... ~ ........... · .. · RE:...f.tBMB~R · .. .... . --~ ' The Price is 6 cents. : Nofl 0 cents. ' ':' ', \'• ',..: . ' ._ ··. ···. ' ... ' ';. ;:-· -··-·· '·. . ; '· .:._.,_ . : ,, ~-~ '. . ' I ,.,' •' :•', ::, . ·~. '

/ .. , I . i · . I I' I li I .. I ·. /;_ . I . . I,'/· , i' I 1 J:' :~•· A 1 ew ,,J .I ·V ' ' . uiZding ·I . . , ! , I . : 1,. I .,, ' I , ! I' I • , I I' :I •J i ' 'I ' I .I ALBANY, N. r . ~We have a be~utifui Custom Department attached; in which will be found a large stock of both Foreign and Domestic Woolens. :Best talent and workmanship are employed. When .in ALbany you are invited to inspect the h~Hding and make the store your resting place. ASK FOR THE FAMOUS :1 ANCHOR BRAND E COLLARS, Cl7.FFSand SHIRTS, -:- They will Outwear two Ordinary Collars. -:- All Fashionable Styles. Fo1· Sale Everywhere. ----------------------------------------- ' ~========~\ ===~€} rJ~~t~~ BANJOS ·/II . (t. ~ . . . . ~ - Ill GU·ITA·RS WASHBURN '1'1 .... - - · · · .. · BAY STATE I .. ~- -~ . . . . Q. We hav~~~mplete assortment of these celebrated Banjos · and Guitars ;riLl ways in stock and sell them very low, to clubs. ~ .. -~ Ill CLUETT ;& SO:NS. Ill ~ . . -c Ill 49 State St.,. Albany. JH . ~ _· . . ~ T HE stock used in the manufacture ef th;is Cigar is the most , expensive of any five-cent Cigar ever put •On the market. It is really a ten-cent Cigar for five cents. Competition drove us to it. REMEMBER, The Pri:ce is 5 cents. · Nol~ I 0 cents. :;

