~ L\ \ \ i\- .) \:) ~ r ...., , ' ' ~;: ,; \' -.- \' . . . C:\ICJ~ COLLE.C;E. ()C1'0HEI< -f· rSqo. y • \ < l. I . CHi\NCELLOR'S ADDRESS. ......... .o- ......... -- --~ l\11{ PRESIDENT, GENTLEJ\IE~ OF THE BOARD OF T'HUSTEES, GEXTLEMEJ\\ OF TIIE CLASS OF '90; l.-ADIES X['\[) GEJ'.,;TLE:\lE~: nzct· firJJtina flcti-the leader of the expedition was a woman. It was with these words thZtt the great~st of the Latin puets, two thousand years ago, certifit>l the cap:1city of worncn for higb achievement. \\·e, t:1c loyal son s o f 0 l d LT n i () n , rna y \ v c 11 gat h e r h ere, pro Ion g i n g the e u 1 o g i u n1. S u n1 111 e r after sun1n1er, when the year is n1ost winning, a woman, forever ylning, fore\'er fair, fore\'er an i n s pi rat i o n, bids he r c h i I d r en a 111 o t h e r 's whole-hee1rtecl welcon1e to the olJ hon1e. They return to this happy valley to be re-tied to her aprun-strings, each fron1 the expedition on w h i c h h e \V ~ n t forth w i t h her e qui p n1 c n t and her ble~sing-this one St.-Ztrching for the huly grail; that one for the golden fleece. Tbcy count it joy to be back ag-ain, and to test i f y that w h ate v e r s u c c c s s t h e y n1 a y h ave achieved is clue to her, and \Vbatever failure is due to themselves. Ancl so gathering about the 111aternal knee, each of us fondly exclaims: 0 queen, live forever! 1\'lZtny daughters have done virtuously, but thou excelle~t them all. ]);tx firnzina fiuti-the leader of the expedition WZlS a won1an. J\ t any Con1 111 encen1 ent it would ha \·e g rat i fi e d d n cl bon o red n1 c t o disc h a r g c t h is function. But the ci rc u n1sta n ces of to-day are n1orc than cot11n·1onl \' full of exhilaration. ~ This ver 'rable in~titution has entered upon h cr golden age. Her pa~t n1ay have been a tri-Ac insecure in places, but her present is radiZtnt with an ever-increasing prosperity, with the assurance that her future will be as to-dZty, but n1uc h n1ore abundant. The new President was C\Ticlently n1ade fur LTniun, and has only to persevere as he has begun in order that the corning historian ()f the hig-her- educati· n n1ay be plea~antly puzzled to clcter- nl i n e w h l' t h c r t o 11 a m e l) r. \\ T e b s t e r t h e Eliphalct I'\utt uf the~c latter clays, ur J)r. Nott the } farrison \\.eb~tcr (lf the forn1er o n c s. 1 h a n.~ a llu d e d t o 1 h t..' d e t: p p lc as u r e with which I rL':-;!H>IldL·d to my t11<ltht..T's ;-; ll m n 1 o l.l s t {) :-. p < • .'a k fur· h cr. H c a:-; . ...; l11·~._ • d t h, 1 t h ~ 111 rl in h :1 n d wit h t L l • p k· :t :-; L: r e ;~: 'J l';; t h l' sense of rl·~p<lll~;ihility. \\\hat ~hall on~..~ t>f '60'S 111 e 11 sa\' t u 'i.JO 's l11l' 11 ? \\'hat u f the - - night? \\'hat of the light? \\.hat the caution? \Vhat the enc<>llragcn1cnt? I l1ave oeen out ofc()llege thirt \T \·ears. Not \\Ct has L - ' the circ1L~ been squared. ='Jot yet has a per- petual 111 oti on 111 ac hi 11 e he en placed un the rnarket. Not vet has the orig·in of c\·il tKen ~ ' cxplain~d to the gcihTal ~ati!\facti1ll1. ;\ot yet bas'' the Iny~tery hid under Egypt's ]1)T3n1id\ heen un\·eilccl. Not yet has Cl>l1- gress passed a11 international copyrigl1t hill 1\everthelcss in spitt..' of much that baffles and not 3. little that saddens in the wide, \Vide world, '()o not yet h~ts hung the harp of hope upl>ll the \\'illo\\':-> of despair. \\·e .still l()ok forward and not backward. \Vc count life not only as \•;orth li\·ing. ln1t as better w o rt h 1 i vi n _ __; t o - d a y t h a n e \ · e r b c fore . \ V c hold f~lst to~~ rational o·,timisnl wl1ich enables t us confidently to appeal frun1 the \·alley ~uHl the shadow to th~ delecLtble 111ut111tains and the perfect day. \r o u n g g- c n t 1 c n1 en o f t h ~ g r ad u at i n ~- class, you are about tu exchang·e the ~till air uf de- l i g h t ful s t u d i c s f or t h c L' x c t' e t I i n g 1 y v o c a J altnOSI)here of life's not :dto!.!:ethcr dcli(l·lltful \.,1 ~ h 1 tt 1 e- t1 e l d . I n 1 ·1 y we ll a i 01 • t h c n , to de 1 i v c r 3. practical n1essagc, and I shall venture to ask yuu to consider for a little thl· duty of

,'-' l l . j i . . ' ~· t . ! :' l ' i I I ' • I ' I . I I I ' ' ' ' . i ,. 2 'T H £ CONCORDIENSIS. verification. In 1874, General John A. D1x, : It is weB \to see oursels as ithers see us,'' at that titn·e ;Governor ofNew \'~ork,deHvered ··since our neighbors are apt to appraise us at the Chancellor's :address here at l.Jnion. In : about our true vahJe. Yet, bear in mind that closing he urged ·the graduates never to q note others may be mistaken as to yo1:1r signifi- from the Latin without consoJt1n-g the ' cance. You remember Disraeli's ,first speech original. Per:mit me in passing to second · in the Hou,se of Com mons. He bad for an the admonition of that scholarly soldier- , audience only such incentives to eloquence statesman. One o.f the raciest of the o:ld . as inattention, indifference, contempt, s:otnno- stories shows what harrowing s~ares lie in ·' Ience. :But resolutely declining to see him- wait for the feet of those who faiT t:o verify • self as others saw him-a common-place even their E:11glish quotations. Jt was au ·.young ·man in whorn there was no force-the after-dinner speaker-he possibly had be en future Lord Beaconsfield sat down excTairll- dining not w.isel'y but too b1bulousJy-whose ing, \The time wDl con1e when you will hear jurr1bled quotation ran: ·me.\ The essential thing is nottooseeyour- 0, wo1nan, in our hours of ease,. selves as others see you, still less as self- Unce:rtaio, coy• a11d hard to please, · If 1 conceit or se - ove sees you, but to see your- Yet seen too oft, familiar whh her f:?tce·, We first endure, then pity, then etnbraee! self as you really are. Give every plus and It is not, however, my purpose to dwell • every minus of your personal equations their upon the importance of accuracy of quotation, . due, your besetting sins and not les~ your but to.turn to some of the more seriotts phases besetting virtues. Do this not only for your of the duty of verification. Let me entreat . own sake, but also for the sake of the public you to verify m~en and things., beginning with comfort. The fact that nun1berless wrong .roursel ves. If you would know till e truth, . men get into right places goes far to acco·unt you must verify; you must know i 1 if you for the gloomy, jaded look so often sec n on would be essentially free; and you nust be the face of humanity. Possibly there wotlld free if your tnanh ood is to atta:j.n its fun .· not be so much room at the top of all vo ca- stature and you are to do your best work in tions were it not that there are so ·many per- that government of the people which is the sons below in each that have no business government of freemen. You cannot begin there at all. So do not it~ elude self-knowJedge too soon nor too thoroughly too verify your- among the elective studies of your post- selves. The highest usefulness, the most graduate course. Every man of you bas an conspicuous success, are largely conditioned individuality which differentiates him frorn upon an exact se'lf knowledge. If :God has his fellows, and if he neglects to develop him- called you to do anything first rate, lb e sure self along its lines he blights his career, he you obey the calL It is better to be a first- wrongs his own soul rate tinker, than another rate d@ctor of· You may remind me that what I am con1· divinity, for the supply of material &fany rate mending to you is the old farr1iliar rvoJfh except the -first in all fields of activi tyi nvari- ocavror, \vrit large. So it is. But even as a ably is great; while there never is a propor- thing of beauty is a joy forever, so that grea.t tionate den1and for it. Discover your weak- fundan1ental admonition is lil.lways seasonable, nesses, that you may guard agains,t then1 ; salient, exigent. New occasions teach not your aptitud~s, that you may strengthen only new duties but the fresh application of thetn; yourlin1itations, that you ma.J respect authenticated precepts; and it seems to rne then1 ; and above all be true to yourselves at · that it is eminently desirable .at this titnt\ for any risk of being stigmatized as btunptious. your country's sake as well as your own, to

1'HE CONCORDIENSIS. 3 ~ -========~====~=~=== revive and e:tnphasize. Kno·w thyself. For if serted in so many words that the metropolis this republic is to achieve all that we think of this wester~' hemisphere was the worse and feel and yearn for, all that im.:fla.mes our governed city of the world. And yet thou-. imagination, an that brings the tears to our . sands of the citizens ofthat proud and mighty ·eyes as we discourse on Fourth of July of , capital-· including, I fear, some Union Col-- Manifest J}estiny, then the corn!ng genera- lege alumni-· ·while conceding the truth of tions must he m-ore serviceable to the ·COm- this most grave indictn1ent, would be com-- .mon weal, more serviceable, hecause :more pelled to confess, if brought to judgment, public-spirited, than the generations which . that pretty much all they had done for the they succeed_ I speak of the corning genera- purification and elevation ofrnunicipal politics tions, but I a:tn thinking of the class of 'go. was of a piece with the campaign which the My brethren, political' progress by evolution heroine of the nursery rhyme \vaged against is m·ore logi,cal and less costly than political an unan1iable cow: progress by revolution. Strive f()r the forn1er There was an old woman said, How by being worthy of your splendid birthright. ShaB I soften the heart of this cow? I will sit on the stile, as American citizens, and begin your labor . And continue to smile, of loyalty by verifying your relations to the · Which may so£1-en the heart of this cow. State. Ye siaall kno\v the truth, and the, Class of'go, the smile method of reform is truth shall make you free-· shaH tnake you · not war, and it certainly is not magnificent. the sort of freemen on whorn th,e country can Nor is the existence of this deplorable con- depend. dition of things confined to any one city or to .A_nd so I pass to speak of your duty to the the municipalities of any one state. The evil Commonwealth. What is the popular want · is widespread. Every part of the country in the United States to-day l Not good furnishes more or less shocking examples of ministers, nor good lawyers, nor good doc- government of corrupt rings by corrupt rings tors, nor good merchants, nor good exponents for corrupt rings, and accordingly no intelli- of any of the arts or soiences, but good gent person can have been altogether sur- citizens. That is the great popular want- prised at finding that a trained and accom- citizens who take a personal, unselfish, un- plished observer, writing in the June Harper ceasing, resolute interest in public affairs. of\ The Best Governed City in the World,\ Verify and col!lvince yourselves that this is does not refer to any community of the best so. The quo,ta of that kind of citizens is land the sun ever shone upon, but to one never full, while, save in time of war, no pro- across the sea. ·Our proud bird of liberty is vi&ion is made under our government system popularly supposed to spend all his time for filling the :ranks by draft. We all assent screaming with admiration as he surveys our to the proposition, that who would be free, flag and the Nat ion over which it waves. thernsel ves must strike the blow ; but the And all things considered, the facts that he practice oftoo,many ofusamendsthe words, does so attests that he is as discriminatingly so that they read-who W'ould be free, them- appreciative as he is intensely patriotic- selves must fold. their hands and resign them since, with all its faults, ours is the land \of selves to a masterly inactivity tempered by every land the pride.\ Still we submit that pensive reflections touching the dirt which if he could have any adequate conception of adheres to politics. It was but a few weeks what passes for government in leading Ameri- ag(), that one oithe most illustrious of Ameri- can cities, it is quite possible that the Eagle cans, speaking out of ample knowledge, as-: would modify his jubilant scream so that it

4 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS. - -----~ ~--- ~--~-------- --- ~--~--- ---~-------- might easily be mistaken for a sigh. Oh! it Iogue and the GD!den Rule,.\ said a proillinent is difficult sometimes to resist the conyiction public man recently, \ Bave no place in a that we Americans love our country tnuch political 'Campaign.\ It is an atrocious utter- better in the abstract than in the concrete. ance. The A,m:erican \vho holds such a view In the abstract we maintain with all ardor ' indicts hirnself as an arch-enemv of his coun- that suffrage is am:ong the most precious of try who :i~s entitled to outrank. Benedict our rights. We style it variously the corner- Arnold. Arnold plotted to betray only one stone of the Nation,. our political bir:h-right, · stronghold; he, infinitely more dangerous, liberty's palladium, freedom's salvation, the would sap the very foundations of the repub- bulwark of our ·institutions, the sure defea-e · lie. He would fain teach his countrymen of the many against the few. Impressive . that there is no God, or at all events, that terms, all. Nevertheless, ~n the concrete, He does n{)t reign and exact that His will be suffrage is not so precious in our eyes but · done on earth even as it is done in heaven- that repeaters and ballot-box stuffers flourish · not during a political campaign. I am sure, like a green bay tree-or say a green upas . class of'9o., that when you come to ponder on tree-without n1aking havoc of our serenity. these considerations you will not think it Not many years ago an election fraud was strange that I have laid such stress upon the being investigated in a city not remote from verification of your relations to public affairs. Schenectady, and this interesting and signifi- \ Patriotism,\ remarked Robert Hall, \is a cant fact was elicited : A person known blind and irrational impulse unless it is familiarly as a ward heeler had been founded on a knowledge of the blessings we approached by a local political leader and are called to secure and the privileges we cordially invited to cheat the voters at the propose to defend.\ Verify that yours may ensuing election ; the heeler, who would be that indispensable knowledge, indispen- seem to have been a prudent person, \Vas in- sable if you are to render good and faithful dined to reject the proposal, reminding his service for the general welfare. \ I require ''boss\ that if he got caught it might go no guard but the affections of the people,\ hard with him; whereupon the boss reassured said Washington, in declining an escort for him with the assertion that crookednes~ at his first inauguaration. The country needs the ballot-box was an offence which was very no other guard than that, but the· affection seldom punished in the State of New York. must have the vigor and constancy of a A good many of those that listen to me are master pas8jo-n. Passive patriotism does not familiar enough with politics to be perfectly guard, but is among the foes to be guarded well aware that the boss' assertion was true; against. How inviting a field is American and being true, what an exhaustive com men- politics to tbe young man who goes forth from tary it is upon the love passing the love of college to-day, dominated by pure patriotism vvoman which the right of_suffrage inspires and cherishing an honorable an1bition for a· in our patriotic breasts 1 Tbesituation would career which shall be distinguished and £u11 be hnnen table enough in all conscience's of good fruit 1 Peace has her victories no sake if reputable people, without exception, less renowned than war's, and in spite ofher regarded it with shame and confusion of face; snowy wings and her soft eyes she breeds if there was a ger era! disposition to deplore · dangers to the State only less deplorable than it, even if there was not public virtue enough those for which grim-visaged Mars is respon- to cure it. But, strange and revolting to sible. You are called upon to meet your say, it is in effect defended. ''The Deca- obligations t() your country in an era of prO-

I. I 1. I· .. I I I I . l L J···· THE CONCORDIENSIS. 5 .. --- =-=- =-::::::--::=-=================:=:::':==============-= found tranquillity. See to it that what passes · ratber than the Bible itself for its guide-book. for peace is not rather enervation, demora1i- :· Discover for yourselves, by a personal study zation. The most acute of American critics : of the untutored New Testament, what the reports that this is the twilight of the poets .. · will of the Master is, and then endeavor in Verify and discover if it can fairly be called :: spirit and in truth to do it. The plan is a th~ high noon of public spirit. And in any : simple one, but verify and see if it is not a event do not despair of the republic; never . sufficient one. The country lad complained despair of the republic. When criticism has that he could not see the city for the houses, exhausted itself the fact retna:iJ:l'S, God be and other innocent souls have found it difficult thanked, that a leaven is at work which must to see religion for the denominations, the ttltimately leaven the lump. The wonderful thirty-nine Articles seeming to loom above non-partisan progress which harlot reform the four Gospe~s. To pursue this simple has n1ade of late in many States is a most plan is not alone to purify the heart, but to encouraging sign, and on all sides there are clarify the men tal vision, to deepen the other sure Indications of a steady reinforce- insight. The God who is seen by the pure ment of the ranks of those whose interest in - in heart is not the Unknown, but the very politics is the interest of intelligence, earnest- :Father ; and because they do His will, con- ness and patriotic devotion. But remember fessions revised or unrevised do not serious1y that if the good work is to go forward without · perplex them, since it is given thef!l to halting, the young men of the country,, \knowofthedoctrine.\ Platodeclaredthat especially the educated young meu, must not ·. atheism was a disease ofthe soul before it be- be found wan tin g. came an error of the understanding. Verify From this point let me turn fo-r a moment . your ethical and spiritual duties, and learn if to another yet graver. Pompe_y said his · vital religion is not an enthusiasm of the soul minister was the most popular man in the before it crsytallizes as a conviction of the county, because he never meddled with either intellect. politics or religion. Having touched upon Speaking generally, young gentlemen, I politics, at the risk of being accused of trying ·. would advise you to take as few essential to put a gratuitous annex on the baccalaureate things as possible for g-ranted. The class of sermon, I shall urge you to verify your ethical 'go is the heir of all the ages, and it can and spiritual duties. The vogue of Robert never properly appreciate the value of its Elsmere and of related works, plainly indi- possessions unless it carefully verifies the in- cates that, were Paul to return to earth, he ventory. That way common sense lies. would be confronted with many an altar What your forefathers did for the country bearing the inscription, \To the unknown do for yourselves-let every man of you con- God.\ This- does not mean that our age is struct and stand by his own declaration ()f either dull or irreligious. The truth is that independence. Deal with truth at first it is an age which, being profoundly inter- :hand r'\. sweetheart courted by proxy is a ested in the concerns of the soul, neverthe- sweetheart lost, as Miles Standish found out. less finds itself embarrassed in its journey Happiness looked at through another man's toward the Celestial City because it insists, in eyes is proverbially a vanity; unverified facts conformity to the prevalent scientific spirit;) and theories are about as unsatisfactory. upon doing most of its walking by sight rather Insist upon your own point of view and your than by faith, and taking complex and mul- .own view even at· the risk of being called titudinous commentaries upon the Bible dogmatic. Dogmatisn1 is bad, but a man

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. who italicizes his self-sovereignty is infi niteil y , erous aspirations and his aU conquering to be p1referred to one whose soul is simply a · courage, and substituting in their p~ace a ditto or an apology. Self-sufficiency is bett~t\r . poor article of sawdust. Love your enemies, than self-insufficiency. ·Obviously, the con- · young men, but draw the line at Mrs. elusions reached by the master minds of the · Grundy. Go about your tasks. as though past count for n1uch ; dou bt)ess Sir Robert · Rome was buHt in a day. It was not, but Walpolie did not expect to he taken quite might it not have been? Retnembering how · seriously when he said to his son, \0 don't · t:peedily the walls of Jericho went down and read ·fu_i>story that I know must be false ; of that the force compelling their fall is as potent course the opinions of mankind are entitled in upraising as in overthrowing-,. we are war- to \a decent respect.\ But, writing of the ranted in assutning tbat the Eternal City forgoing generations \ who beheld God face might have been finished in a day, even to face,'' a great philosopher puts the tren- under an eight-h.our law. Wisdom is not to chant questions, \Why should not we also perish with you l-· how do you know? What enjoy an original relation. to the univer':;e? has been may be. Possibly as dark ages are Why should not we have a poetry and phil- concealed in the sea of time as ever came out osophy of insight and not of tradition, and a of it, and surely nothing is so well calculated religion by revelation to us and not the his- to produce an awful renaissance of arrested tory of~theirs ?\ I have spoken of the wisdotn intellectual vitality as the infidelity of edu- ofthe past. Maxims are commonly regarded cated men to their duty. Besides, wisdom's as the condensed cream of such wisdom, and ineffable light will certainly shine brighter still they will bear verifying. For, although and further than ever before if you keep your. the maj0rity of those in current use are contributory lamps filled, trimn1ed, brightly doubt:! ess trustworthy, not a few are the burning and clear of enshrouding bushels. agents with which feebleness, sloth and True, evil, like the poor, is always with us,, cowardice, n1asquerading as conservatism, and at last ad vices looked lusty. But si nee endeavor to refrigerate enthusiasm and its essence is decay, and the Power at the swindle youth out of its ideals. Class of '90, centre of things is a Power that makes for you will be reminded that Rome was not righteousness, you do not know, you cannot built in a day; that wisdom is not in imn1i- know, but that if you fight the good fight as nent danger of dying with you; that there valiantly as the six hundred fought at Balak- was evil in the world when you entered it, lava, the blessed Millennium may be ushered and possibly traces of it will survive after in before you are sutnmoned to go hence. you have passed on ; that it is undiluted ''If hol?es were dupes fears tnay be liars; folly to attempt the impossible ; that you It may be, in yon smoke concealed, Your comrades chase, e'en now the fliers, may not be as handsome ·as you now are a And, but for you, possess the field., quarter of a century hence, but you will know Not attempt the impossible? First· catch more. Our common mother, never talks to your hare. It is truer now than ever before, us in tbis pessimistic strain, but another that one never knows what he can do until woman, who is most potent and pervasive in he tries. That was an admirable answer that world upon whose frontier you are now which a certain young fellow made tq one standing-, steadily and remorselessly does so. wh.o asked him how much he weighed: Her natne is Mrs. Grundy. She lies in wait \Ordinarily said he, \I weigh on1~ hun- for the college graduate bent upon summarily dred and forty pounds and a half, but let me ridding- him of his heart and soul, of his gen- get my· spunk up and I weigh a ton.'' A

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 member ofYale's famous class of'53, on the occasion of its twenty-fifth ~nniversary, called attention to these two facts: first, that tbe ---~----- a scoundrel ; if he holds fast to nothing, he will becon1e another sort of a curs·e to his fellow tnen-a mere theorist. On the other tnemhership was about as large as it ever had · hand, let one hold fast with ever .. so tenacious ~een ;. and second, that one of the brethren, a grip to his convictions without first verify- Rev. Mr. Whiton, through his rendering of. ing thern, and his generalizations from a:lailvzovhad demonstrated that eternal punish- nothing in particular, his zeal without know- ment was not endless.. \So said this shy . ledge, tnay sometimes amuse, but can never culCJgist, '' [ think that Yale's class of '53 •· edify. Keeping out of these three classes, .may clahn to hav·e conquered both death and · prove an things, and then, applying the rule hell.\ I: draw no moral from this incident; . of the survival of the fittest, hold fast with all I relate it because it demonstrate~ that at ·. your might that which is good, ever hearing least one college class believes that the im- in mind the pungent aphorism that if you are possible is w1ereliy a relative term. Who shall right you cannot be too radical, if you are say that Mohammed might not have made ·wrong you cannot be too conservative. I the motJntain 'Come to hitn if he had realized cannot doubt that as the logical result of the the trans·porting povver of even a little good and faithful training you have received genuine faith? Nothing ~is impossible on from our wise and beneficent common mother Bunker HiU, exclaimed Webster. Are there you will instinctively turn to excellent prac- not other heights, seen and unseen, that are tical account the good which comes to you calculated to inspire the same sublime, through verifi.cation. The function of a Heaven-inspired audacity? As for the class college is not .so n1uch to load the scholar of'go being \homelier but wiser a quarter of a with the rich and varied treasures of Minerva, -c.entury hence, that depends. I'his zsth of her gold, frankincense and myrrh, as to ex- June you a:re :convinced, I am sure, that the plain to him the secret of winning her fav0r ideal is the truly practical; that the light after fir~t revealing her to him as a goddess which never vvas on sea or land is the .ne plus . of surpassing loveliness \not too good for ultra of ill urninators ; that such possessions human nature's daily food,\ yet ever haloed as faith, hope and love, rather than lands, with a celestial glory. I rejoice to believe tenernen ts .and hereditaments are entitled to that in your hands knowledge shall indeed be called real estate. If the 25th of June, be power-the power of that ineffable mor~l 1915, finds you sneering at such estimates, and mental energy which finds its legitimate then the Judgtnent of the court of last resort, exercise in deeds and influences that go to even your best selves, will surely be that, roake the worid purer, wiser, lighter-hearted. however, it may be about physical pulchri- This I arn aware is a conception of the higher tude, the quarter of a century has left you education which n1akes it very like the less truly wise than you were at your Con1- Sum-;nu1n Bonum. But, alma mater may well mencemen t. hold that she is not thoroughly justified of It but remains to remind you of the con1- her children unless they thus regard it. An plement of the counsel which has been ten- undevout astronomer is mad, said Young; dered. Verification, however unerring, can ·and any scholar who is not devout can fairly profit you nothing unless you turn to good be looked upon as a non-sequitur. A few account the things which you verify. It is a years ago it was my good fortune one fair means, not an end. If one who proves all summer evening, sitting under a quiet sky, things hollds fast to the bad, he will become to be one of a little group that listened to

8 T:HE :cONCORDIENSIS. George William Curtis talk inforrnaH y ,()f elo- wa)ls report that the shadows have lifted or que nee. Himself, in my judgment. :rbe -first .. · are lifting, and that even the peo1-Je of the of Atn~rican orators, I was naturaUy inter- lands where the prince of darkness still ested in learning whom he would nat1ile the usurps a right of eminent domain,. take heart most eloquent of Americans. Accord:iing,ly I from their very despair, re·minding one asked hin1 the question. He replied that . another that it is always darkest just hefore there was a passage in Mr. Emerson's oration -day. What of the light? It is brighter, before the literary societies of O:a.rt:tnonth more fructifying, a fuller flood this :morning College which was to him of unsl!l!rpassed than eve1· before since the careering courses merit, and so saying he repeated it. Let me · of the sun first dashed across the glowing now repeat it to you, class of 'go, and, as a roadway of the sky. Every ·high festival, final admonition, advise you to learlil. itt by ·such as this increases the radiance, since into heart : \ YoH will hear every day-,,':1 said the hands of each youth, as he parts from her, En1erson to those Dartmouth graduatesof the Union places a far-shining. torch lit at her class of '38, \the maxims of a low prudence. own. Press forward, then, high-souled, You will hear that the first duty is to· get high-hearted.· The world is all before you land and money, place and name. ·' What is for the choosing, and plant your· standards this Truth you seek? What this B:eauty ?' . where you will, yours shaH be th~. strength tnen will ask, with derision. If nevertn,eless, 1 and serenity born of the blessed conscious- God have called any of you to explo~re t~ruth ness that so long as you strive to do your and beauty, be bold, be firm, be true'. ?\hen whole duty, the very stars in their courses you shall say, ' As others do, so will r ; I are enlisted for your success. The stars ? renounce, I am sorry for it, my early -visions; Yes, in very truth, the stars. For such is I must eat the good of the land and let learn- · the sympathy which mind and matter have ing and romantic expectations go :t.ll'l ti 1 a for each other, such the exq uis~te interplay more convenient season '-then dies tfi,e man of natural and spiritual laws, such the essen- in you; then once more perish the ~uds of tial unity of the Divine plan, celestial and art and poetry and science, as they have died . terrestrial, that it is something more than a already in a thousand thousand men. The flight of fancy to believe that the human hour of that choice is the crisis of r<rur his- soul which, in the Fear of the Lord, is \VOrk- tory, arid see that you hold yourself fast by ing out its own salvation, is succored by the intellect.\ The higher education, as earth and sea and sky, and in turn enriches thus apprehended-a lovely spirit, a lofty the music of the spheres, promotes the bar- influence, a sacred obligation, a veritable rnony of the Universe. r11inistering angel, is not decorated by its WM. E. Me ELROY, L. L. D. n1odest partisans with the title Sllt1'*'Pn:znn Bonunt. No-; they prefer simply to re:o!lar k . that the greatest good is th-at which a<:com- plishes the greatest good, casually a.d<ling that a rose by any name is a ravishing sweet- ness. My brethren of the class of '90, hail and Godspeed ! Do your own thinking amd your own verification, and then act well yourr part. What of the night? The watchmen upon the I FOOT BALL AT UNION . . With the opening of the present college year, foot ball as an amateur sport will have passed through the \ dark ages \ and out into the light as a revised, popular game, and will henceforth, we believe, he everywhere recognized as the game of American colleges. By a careful revision of the rules each year,

THE CONCORDIENSIS .. 9 ---------- -- ---------- ---· ----- --~---·-- ----- ---- ----------- --- - -- -~- - - --~----~-- ~--- - --'---- most of the objectionable features have been removed. Mr. Walter Camp in his introduc- tioa to the rules for 1 8go, says : '' Of aH coUege sports foot ball has proved most attractive to the spectators. It has suffered n1nre re*buffs at the hands of the press than any other game, but these rebuffs were attrib- utable to ignorance of the nJles and customs, and as the sport became better known, the ad verse criticism decreased, until it has now aln1ost disappeared. * *\ 7:, * No game has shown such remarkable vitality in :tbe face of all opposition. It has steadily increased the number of its supporters and it has no deserters. Every convert becomes an eager advocate of its n1crits, and although it is only fifteen years old in America, nearly · every school and college has a team, and the principal \varsity matches draw audiences of over fifteen thousand spectators.\ Foot ball is young at Union. We have suffered defeat at the hands of Williams, Ridgefield and Cornell, while we have taken games from Cornell and R. P. I., and tie games have been played with the Albany Medical College and Rochester University. Although Union has lost more frequently than she has won, foot bali has held its own, and is, to-day, the popular game of the coHege. Work for the present season has com- menced in earnest. The number of candi- . dates for the team is un usuali y large. A pro- fessional trainer has been secured, a training. . table started, and the tean1s .are practicing daily, and are playing the game in such a way that if the present good work continues we mg_y look forward to win~ing the pennant with as much of certainty as we did last spring in base ball. A considerable sum of money has been subscribed by the alumni for· the support of the tean1, so that with this fund and the subscriptions of the students, we need have no fear of being placed in any financial straits. Now we have the material, the enthusiasm, and the necessary funds .. Let every n1an, then, in Union College, who can play foot ball, con1e out on the can1pus daily. and do his best. If a man cannot play, Jet him encourage those who do. Let no man go on the field for personal glory, butlet him reflect that he can do a service to his Altna Mt.'lter by supporting her interests; and let him then go to work and help the team to win. It is the popular idea for the colleges of to-day to send out athletic teams-foot hall, base ball, la crosse teams-and the college that does these things, and does them well, is the popular college~ Now let Union nlain- tain her position among other institutions. She has always taken a stand in the front rank for scholarship. She has turned out a body of men ofwhom, the nation can be justly proud. Now let her undergraduatesst.rive to sustain her in athletics as well as in scholar- ship. Let us, while bearing in mind the pur- poses for \vhich a college is organized and conducted, endeavor, at the same time, to sustain Old Union in those . secondary interests which,.by their success, can make her popular in the college world. TRA-CY H. RoBERTSON, '9r. CAPTAIN CHARLES KrNG, U. S. A., has had a most remarkable soldier's career since he first unsheathed his sabre on the border lands, but his services in the saddle, however great, are not comparable to those which he is rendering \!Vith the pen ; he is crystalizing into a constellation of gems the traditions of the West and rescuing the incidents of its most stirring and dramatic period from the oblivion into which the ''dry-as-dust\ his- torian too often buries them, volumes deep. RANCHO DEL MUERTO in Outitzg- for October, is one of his thrilling stories of a period rapidly passing away; the new genera- tion of authors will envy those who had such experiences to draw fron1.

'!. ,:·.i 10 THE CONCORDIENS[S. ------~-- ------ -· ~------- -- ----- -- ------- CONCORDIENSIS~ 'PUBLISHED SEMHvlOl\THLY BY STUDEN'iL'S OF UNION CoLLEGE. class this year co,mes up to everybody's , expectations in numbers, and will doubtless ;: prove an hopor, both in scholarship and · athletics, to· i:ts Aim.a Mater.. What is the BOAI?D OF EDITORS. 1 ; result of this? No longer do the Alumni B. c. LITTLE, '9I' W ..... 4. Me DoNALD, '91, I HoMER B. WILLIAMs, '92, f EnrTOH·-rN-CHIEF. '' look anxiously and hopelessly., as perhaps ' -- --'----\-- 92 . L. H .. CARRIS,. '93, J. W .. VEEDffiR, ~94, j. W. FERGUSO~, ~91, G. F. MosHER, '92, --~-,'gJ, TERMS, SJ.NGLE CoPIEs, Asso crATEs. LITERARY EDITOR. } AssiSTANTs. BusiNESS MA.N.c\'GER. ASSISTANTS. $2.00 PER YEAR, IN A:DVA:s\CE.. IS CENTS. We desire our friends to send us coattibutions, items of interest and information concerning Alumni. Extra copies can :be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kindly notify iB usiness Manager. AH remittances .shoald be made :md sent to THE CoNCOR,DJ:[NSIS Schenectady, N.Y. ' Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. ---- --~- --------- ----~ ---- -----------·-- -------- --- - . - - __ ....,._. ~ --- - -- Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenect::ldy, N. V .. EDITORIAL. FoR THE past ten or fifteen years the eyes · of every loyal son of Old Union (and vvhat son in the depths of his heart is not loyal?) have been anxiously directed towards that · old seat of learning. Well did the Altunni of tbe college .realize the precarious position of their Aln1a Mater, and every scrap of in- formation concerning her was eagerly sei:zed upon by the,m with feelings, of joy when the tidings told of Old Union's advancement, and with fee'li ngs of the deepest sorrow w:fu en . the tidings hinted, as they too often did, that the college was lowering rather than rai~sing her standard which was so high in the days of Dr. Nott. 'One of the things most eagerly looked for by the Alun1ni, was an ddvance .... ment in the number of students who each year entered the college, but each year their hopes were disappointed, for the classes kept getting smaller and smaller, until the fall of '87. Since that time there has been a change and the classes have steadily and surely advanced in numbers, so that now·cne is certain of the future of Old Union. The they once did towards their college ; instead, ·• they now wear a satisfied look, a look of · assurance, fo·r they feel that Union is \ weU :: on the road towards success and that she is • botJ:nd to reach her destination.'' This great change for the better in the affairs of the · college is not due to any one man, but it is the result of tihe combined efforts of a great many men. [t is due to the earnest and God-fearing work of our President, Dr. Harrison E. Webster; it is .d~1~ to the honest and steady work of the Faculty, who have done their duty well and successfully ; it is due to the loyalty of Old Union's Alumni, and last, but not least, this change for the better is due to the students then1selves, who, in their love for their college, are always striv- ing to place her where she should be, in the foremost rank of A:rnerican Colleges. * * FoR THE present college year, the Board .of Editors of 'fHE CoNCORDIENSIS have, as a Freshman was heard to exclairr1,~' undertaken a great undertaking.\ 'I'hey intend to issue tbe n1agazine twice a month instead of once a month, as has hitherto been the .custom. To anyone not connected with the paper, this n1ay not appear to be an especially difficult piece of wor'k, but it seems to the editors as if their burd·ens grew heavier and heavier every day, and it might be of interest to those who have their doubts about there being any real work connected with the issuing of a college paper, to say that the heads of the business and editorial depart- ments of THE CoNcoRDIENSIS have been hard at work since the first of August making the necessary arrangen1ents for its publication. Now with the rapid growth of the college, . ··' t ,:: ,,l ,:{ •,•; I . ':: . :_~ :', f. l

·:.:~: /; ,'1 1'_.\.·-i . ·:··~1~ ' '-.- \;;~- ., ,'_:'?;': : ·.. ·-j· . '~rt: . THE .c·ONCORDIENSIS.. I I it seems as if the time was ripe for the . the most appropriate place for a picture of students of Old Union to have a semi-monthly Union's successful! representatives is in Union's magazine, THE CoNCORDIENSIS, even paper, and the editors firmly believe that they if the picture n1ay have happened to appear can publish THE CoNCORDIENSIS twice a in some other paper first. It is only to be 1nonth,. and n1ake a success of it, if the stu- hoped thal before the year is vut, THE CoN- dents will support them, but they just as CORDIENSI'S will have as just cause for pub.:. firn1 Iy believe that it will not be a success if.· lishing the picture of this year's Foot BaH · h I d Eleven. the :students fail to support t em. :t oes · not seem unjust or unfair to ask and expect every student to subscribe to h s coUege paper, and that is just what the editors of THE CoNcORDIENSIS are going to ask and expect, and although they are becon1ing accustomed to disappointments in matters relating to the ,, Concordy '' still they hope that in this ,expectation they will not be greany disap- pointed. * * * WE TAKE great pleasure in presenting in full in this issue, the Chancellor's Address which was so ably delivered last Comn1ence- ment by Mr. Me Elroy, of the New York 'Tribune. Owing to lack of space it was crowded out of the Commencement number of THE CoNcORDIENsrs, and so appears now, somewhat late, it is true, still this does not in the least detract from its n1erit, and we hope that we are doing something towards perpetuating its existence by thus publishing the address in the college magazine. There is no necessity for telling those students who heard the address delivered, to read it now, for they will do so without the telling, but we would advise those students who were not so fortunate, to read it through thoroughly and carefully, for it is a masterly effort and very interesting reading. * 7(- * IN THIS issue is presented the photograph of Union's successful Base Ball team of last spring, the chatnpions of theN ew York State Intercollegiate League. Although this pic- ture is in no wise unfamiliar to the students, it having appeared in the July number of the \'University Magazine,\ still this does not necessitate an apology for putting it in the \Concordy '' for sure I y an appropriate, if not * In athletics, Old Union is now certainly on a \boom.'' As can be seen by the manager's article which appears in this nunJ.ber, the foot ball men are doing great work and train- ing and being trained in a way that has never been done before at Union. The tennis courts, which by the way are as fine courts as can be found within any college grounds, are being used to their full exte11t, and are developing sotne fine players. There are now more tnen doing work in the \gym'' and doing it regularly, than is usual at this time of the year, and even the Base Ball manager is already thinking about next year's nine, and worrying his men to go into train;i ng. So the prospects for :this year, in the athletic department of the college, at least, are very bright. Of Interest to the Students. -Good Frosh ! -Herrick, '93, has left college. -The \setting up:'' is about over. -There are now scarcely any vacant rooms in the dormitories. -Septen1ber 22, the Sophomores defeated the ·Freshmen at base ball by a score of 15 to 3· -Sanders, '92, on account of sickness will not be able to rettlrn to college until next term. -Both Williams and Amherst have for some unknown reason entered sn1aller classes than usual this year. -The Junior Class is using Pre· f. T. W. Wright's new and practical work, \Text Book on Mechanics.,., -The Sn1ith Brothers, '94, wish it dis- tinctly understood that they are not the pro- prietors of the famous cough drop. -It is· rumored that the class of '94 have resolved not to \set up\ the men in next year's Freshmen Class in any way. -A very good irnitation .of a cane rush

.. r· ,: 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~ . I ~~o~k~pla~e ~~•ri~g~~~~ \;.;:sh~:~~~~op~~~=r~ 7J ohnson is in Chicago in the elnploy ofthe base ball game. Nobody \Vas badly hurt, Illinois Steel Co. however, and both s~ides won, as far <1s could /Harder is with his father in the knit goods be detern1ined by· hearsay. . by-siness in Troy. -· Syracuse University has raised over three /Bennett is studying law in his father's hundred dollars for its foot ball tea.m and has oftice in Chicago. for. a trainer, Robert \\'inston, wh? last year _/Comstock 1s 1n the office ofCivH Engineer tra1 ned the Amherst men. .He 1s to stay Cr91:ne of Amsterd:anL only about two weeks., however, with Sy:ra-- \(Fish is in Sa~:atoga studying la\v in :the cuse, and will then ·go to Williatns Co:llege office·of Hon. John Foley. where he \vill retnain for the rest of the ·tK1'1ox is studying for the n1inistry 1n the season. Auburn Th eologiL·al Seminary. -The officers of the Union Co1lege Lawn: I-Iawkes is in Elmira. lie intends to take Tenn1s Association· are as follows: G. H. up the profession of jt)urnalism. Da'ley, '92, Pres·ident; E. D. Lines, '93 V'Brandmahl is in the drafting departm~ent Vice President;, G. F. l\1osher, '92, Secre- of the Edis.on Works, Schenectady. tary and Treasurer; Executive Committee, v1?ickfurd has a position on one of the Day Preston, '9r. DAley, ''92, VVebstcr, '93 and Line Boats running between Albany and Campbell, '94. The tournan1ent will proba- · N ~w Y Jrk. b1y begin about the 9th of October. Cassidy is at his home in Ushers, N. Y. -Saturday, September 2J., n1uch to the He intends to again enter coll'ege and gradu- surprise of everybody, and most of all to the . ate with 'gr. F·reshtnen themselves, 'gq. succeeded in · Clute is taking a post graduate course at defeating '93 at toot ball by a score of ro to C). U n1on and incidentally practicing with the 'The Sophomores did not have their strongest· Foot Ball team. / team in the field and did not play as we:ll as Edwards is preaching in Clintonville. N.Y. usual. For the Freshmen l.V1c Cowett and : He expects to come back to co'llege and enter the Braman Brothers p!ayed the best game : the Senior (_lass. -The followi:ng class officers for the : i/Mc Donald ,is in. the office _of Fla.n~igan ~ present year were recently elected by the, Snow, (both 89 111en at Union) civil engt- Freshman Class: President, G. H. Miller; :. neers, W·est Superior, Wis. Vice-President, F. Sullivan ; Secretary and! . Mosher is in Europe where he expects to Treasurer, R. R. Me Farlin ; Poet, VVrn. :; stay for some time for the purpose of study- Van Auken ;. Historian, M. Crandal; Foo;!r ': ing the French and Gern1an languages. Ball Director, H. H. Me Cowett ; Base BaU --~ ----- Director, C. Sullivan; Toast lVIaster, E. W. '. Notices and Reviews. Daley; CoNCORDIENsrs Ed1tor, J. W. Veeder. · THE University Magazine is gt owing in -It is understood that the money sub- : popularity with every issue. It is now pub- scribed by the ·student for foot ball purposes, lishing a series .of articles by Baird, on will be expended only in paying the expenses ·• College Fraternities which are very inter- of having ·other tean1s con1e here to play. esting to Society n1en. - The many other expenses will be met by THE class of '8o at Union is soon to publish funds that the manager has secured by out- • its Decennial Record. It will contain a cotn- side subscriptions. So the nutnber of toot plete history of each men1ber of the class, ball games that we are to have on the campus, having besides the portraits of the .majority this fall depends entirely upon the liberality of the cla-ss. The book vvill also contain a of the students. · number of group pictures and photograph · -------- views recently taken at Lake George. It IS _. Some Personals A bout '90. to be handsomely bound, the cover being /.Stewart is studying law in Amsterdam. emblazoned with garnet and gold, thu's /Baker is now city engineer of Gloversville, making a very handsome book which will be ~ Y. interesting not only to the mernbers of the ..; Brown is assistant engineer at Gloversville, class, but also to all the friends of the class of N. Y. whom there are many.

VoL. XIV. UNION C;OLLEGE, ()CTOBER r8, I89o. --------------- ====:;:..:'-'-.-== ---- ~--~---- --- YE LAY OF YE FRESHMEN. When minstrelH in the halls of old, Ye tales of lords and ladies told, When jovial Fresh men, knowing nought, By Plato's purging art were wrought, And Cerberes with bristling snakes Brought forth the \ Sophs\ with diverse fates, And Fate -declared the \Sophs \ to reign, Venus, the Frosh to please, did train. Duty's cointnand she obeved full well . ~ And sent them forth from the gates o£ Hell, \As her last gift, for future weal, She set upon them Beauty's seal. But Sophomores, a year ahead, She sent to be the Freshmen's dread, And now can potent \Beauty'' save The Freshmen from an early grave? Ah! Hazingl dire, and false alarm Have done the Freshmen mighty harm, And now if the '' Sophs '' their lives will spare And grant them peace and mortal air In truth the Frosh will always strive To justice do to '95· The lesson given to '94 The \Sophs\ will see repeated o'er. I say wl1en bards iJ;l times of old. The tales of lords and ladies told, Ne'er were they roused at dead of night, A rhyme to make, by Soph'mores' might, (Who with cla-ssic mind and erect poise, In these old sections do rejoice) And n1ade to claim old '93 The best in all th~ Varsity. Now when the Idol's painted green (That deity from the heavenly sheen), When, for the last time, kind '93 You've \set me up\ in my robe-de-mtit, When on these halls you look no more. And hence you've goneyonr ''polling'' o'er Oh! May you hear our heartfelt roar \Rah! Long live U. C. '94!'' [The above was written by a Freshman in obedience to the orders of some Sophomores who aroused him late one night and after'' setting him up \ in a mild way insisted upon his writing a poen, for them on the spot. l-Ed. ELI PERKINS ON AMERICAN HUMORISTS. ~ MARK TWAIN. \AMUEL L 'CLEMENS(Mark Twain}, ,~_: who has done so much to make our ;Jives sunny, was born in lian~ibal, Mo, in r 835. From his brother's printing- office he went on the Mississippi river as a pilot. It was from he:1ring the cry of the soundings \ :vr ark on e ! Mark t wain ! 1\t.I ark three !'' that caused him to take his pseudonym, ''Mark 1\\'clin.\ Frotn the ri \'er Mr. Clen1ens went to Nevada, and entered journalisn1. He afterwards removed to San Francisco and thence ·to tb e Sandwich Islands, and, return- ing, gave his first lecture, \Roughing It.\ After traveling in Europe, he wrote\ Inno- cents Abroad.\ This book n1ade him famous, and was quickly follo:\ved by\ Tom Sawyer,\ \The Prince and the Pauper,\ and other sketches. On returntng ft 1 om the Holy Land, he became Ed tor of the Buffalo Express, but finally n1oved to Hartford, Conn., where he now lives in a beautiful bon1e, surrounded by a lovely family of chi1rlren. Mrs. Cl'emens, formerly Miss Langdon, of Elmira, N. Y., is beloved by every one in Hartford. Mr. D~vid vVelcher tells me that Mark Twain, when in a good humor, told hin1 the story of hi~ courtship, and how pe won his beautiful and wealthy wife. When Mark first met her, he was not so distinguished as now; his origin was hun1ble, and for some years of his life he had been a pilot on the Mississippi river. The future Mrs. Clemens was a woman of position and fortune ; her father was a judge, and doubtless expected\ family'' and social importance in his son-in-law. Clemens, however, becan1e interested in his daughter, and after awhile proposed, but was rejected. ''Well,''· he said to the lady, \I didn't much believe you'd have me, but I tho.ught I'd try.\ After a while he \ tried \ again, with the

' ' i ' ' ' i ' I4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. satne result, and then remarked, with his · celebrated drawl, \ I think a great deal n1ore ofyou than if you'd said 'Yes,' but it's hard to hear.'' A third tirne he met with better fortune and then came to the most difficult part of his task-to address the old gentle- man. he said, as· he stot)ped his painting at 520 South Fourth street: '' Know Mark? I should say I do. We were school-mates.\ '' Srrightly boy, you say.\ '' Yes, he was. He was a n1ischievous rascal. I was born and .raised in Hannibal, and know when Mrs. Clernens n1oved fron1 Fia.rida, Monroe County, to Hannibal. Mark ''Judge,\ he said to the dignified n1illion- · aire, \have you seen any thing going on between Miss Lizzie and me?'' was a dull, stupid, slow-going boy, but he was full of pranks, and while he didn't do the 1neanness, he planned it and got other boys to do it. We went to school to Dr. Meredith, and Mark always sat near the foot of the class.. He never took any interest in books, and I never saw him study his lessons. He left school 8.nd went to learn the pr·inting business, and soon after that left Hani1ibal \What? What.?'' exclaimed the judge, rather sharply, apparently not under~tanding the situation, yet doubtless getting a glimpse of it from the inquiry. \ Have you seen anything going on between lYliss Lizzie and me?'' \No indeed,\ replied the magnate, sternly. \ N . I h ·t ?\ o, sir, ave no . ''Well, look sharp and you will,\ said the author of'' Innocents Abroad,'' and that's the way he asked the judicial I uminary for his · daughter's hand. 1\tlark bas a child who inherits some of her father's brightness. She kept a diary at one time, in which she noted the occurrences in the family, and among other things, the sayings of her parents. On one page, she wrote that father sometimes used stronger words \vhen mother wasn't by, and he thought \we\ didn't hear. l\t1rs. Clemens found the diary and showed it to her husband,· probably thinking the particular page worthy his notice. After this Clemens did and said several things that were intended to attract the child's attention, and found them duly noted afterward. But one day the following entry was made: \I don't think I'll put down any thing n1ore about father, for I think he does things to have me notice him, and I believe he reads this diary.\ She was Mark's own child. When I asked R. E. Morris, of Hannibal, who \Vent to school with Mark wh~n he was a boy, about the great humorist's boyhood, d b . '' an went to steam- oating. ''I stayed at school, got a good education, and am a painter while 1\!Iarl<; is am illionai re. It is a scanda,1ous fact, that as a boy, from ten to seventeen ye·ars of age, Mark was awfully dull and stupid, a,nd it was the \vonder of the town, as to what end would be his. He was pointed out by n1others, as a boy that vvou1d never amount to nothin' if he did not actually come to son1e bad end. And he was the most homely boy in school; too. Pranks! I can think of a dozen of 'en1, and his Huckleberry Finn is full of Hannibal episodes, worked over. I read that with as much interest as I would a diary of I--Iannibal, kept during n1y school days. Mark is three years older than myself, but he was always in a class of boys two or three years younger than himself. Still I am painting houses and Mark i·s dining with kings. Don't get your- trousers agin the paint.\ Mark Twain will go down to posterity as the Dickens of America.' He shows a more vivid imagination than Dickens, becau~e his early associations were in a wilder, newer and more picturesque country. Dickens was a pure humorist. He described nature as it ' .\--

',.\.- I I I .·. I. I I I: , ) ,. \· t I [ I ,. [ ' I ! f •.. 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 was. He added nothing to it. Mark Twain . out from under his shaggy eyebrows, moving describes nature and character as truthfully from one guest to another, as a lawyer scans as Dickens, and then, sotnetimes, peppers : his jury in a death trial. Then he eom- his truthful description with imagination .. menced, very slowly: This is wit. Dickens' ''Little Nell,\ and \Our children-yours-and-· mine. They \Smike\ and \Oliver 'Jwist\ and\ Fagin\ seem f.ike Httle things to talk about-our are drawn true to life-dialect and all. children, but [ittle things of:ten make up the Mr. Clemens' writings, like \ Roughing sum of hurnan life-· that's a good sentence. It,''' will always illustrate our exaggerated [Laughter.] I repeat it, little things often early Am.erican life. His reputation as a produce great things. Now, to illustrate, literary man will go down in history, Boston take Sir Isaac N ewton-I presume some of critics to the contrary. you have heard of Mr. Newton. [Laughter.] The quaint humor of Mr .. Clemens·, shows Well,. once when Sir Isaac Newton-a mere itself in his every-day life. To illustrate : lad-got over into the man's apple orchard- At a recent dinner in Boston, there was a . I don't know what he was doing there- long religious discussion on eternal life and · [laughter]-! didn't ·Come all the way from future punishment for the wicked ; but Mark Hartford to q-u-e-s-t-i_,o-n Mr. Newton's Twain, who was present, took no part in the honesty-but when he was there-in the discussion. A lady finally applied to Mr. man's orchard-he saw an apple fall and he Twain for his opinion. was attracted towards it [laughter] and that \What do you think, Mr. Twain, about the led to the discovery-not ·of JYir. Newton- existence of a heaven or hell?'' [laughter]-but of the great law of attractio1t \I do not want .to express an opinion,'' and gravitation. [Loud laughter.] said Mr. Twain, gravely. '' It is policy for \And there was once another great dis- me to remain silent. I have friends in both coverer-l've forgotten his name, aqd I don't places.\ rernember what he disc~vered [laughter], but Mr. Clemens has a quaintness about his I know it was something very i tnportant, and lectures which is indescribable. \ One I hope you wiU all tell your children about it, night I sat opposite the humorist while he when you get home. \Vell, when the great made an after-dinner speech. [think it vvas discoverer was once loafin' around down in on the occasion of the Author's Club, dining Virginia, and a puttin' in his tin1e flirting at the Gilsey House, and, if I rernen1ber with Pocahontas-0, Captain John Smith, rightly, his subject or toast \vas \Our chil- that was the man's name !-and while he and dren.' It matters not what the occasion was, Poka were sitting in Mr. Powhatan's garden, it is the speech we want. Well, I took that • he accidentally put his arm around her and speech in shorthand, and I can read it to you picked something-a simple weed, which as Mark delivered it.'' proved to be tobacco-. and now we find it in \ How did he look and how did he begin,'' · every Christian fatnily, shedding its civilizing you ask? influence broadcast- throughout the whole He rose slowly and stood, half stooping . religious community. [Laughter.] over the table. Both hands were on the \Now there was another great man, I can't table, palms to the front. There was a look think of his natne either, who used to loaf of intense earnestness about his eyes. It around, and watch the great chandelier in seemed that the weight of an empire was the cathedral at Pisa, which set him to upon his shoulders. His sharp eyes looked 1 thinking about the great law of gunpowder,

16 THE :CO·NCORDIENSIS. -- -. ~ ~---- --=====;::==================== and eventually led to the discovery of the • cotton gin. [Laughter.] \Now I don't say this as an induce,ment · for our young n1en to loaf around like Mr. Newton, and Mr. Galileo, and Captain Smith, _ but they were once little babies, two days · olc:1, and they show what tittle things have . sometimes accomplished.\ In a recent conversation, while Mr. Twain · was talking about school children, :he said, • \In my capacity of publisher, I recently re- • cei ved a manuscript fron1 a teacher, which : embodied a number of answers, giv·en by her · pupils, to questions propounded. These , answers sb ow that the children had nothing but the sound to go by; the sense was per- fectly empty. Here are some of their answers to words they were asked to define: Auriferous -pertaining to an orifice ; am- monia-the food of the gods; equestrian-- one who asks questions; parasite-a kind of umbrella; ipecac-a man who likes a good dinner. And here is the de fin itio n of an ancient word, honored by a great party: Republica~-a sinner mentioned in the Bible. And here is an innocent deliverance of a zoological kind : 'There are a good many donkeys in the theologicql gardens.' Here also is a definition which really isn't very bad in its way: 'Demagogue-a vessel contain- ing beer and other liquids.'\ MELVILLE D. LANDON, (Eli Perkins) ELI PERKINS TO COLLEGE JOURNALISTS. Welshons says, 'in his first tadpole ·stage, when his head is swelled, he is a journalist. If be finally shows great brain and industry and escapes the fool-killer he may becon1e a reporter. After years of study and toil and when his brain is stuffed with wisdo-m, wit and discretion enough to kill his own editor- ials and \make up\ a sixteen-page Sunday edition, then I say he's a newspaper man.' '' \Then this is as high in the profession as he can get ?'' \Yes he is now at the pinnacle. By and by when ~he gets lazy and stiff and old and stupid they reduce him to the position of d 't \ e 1 or. . \An editor is a decayed newspaper n1an with bunions on his brain, chillblains on his heart, corns on his ears and warts and dys- pepsia on his liver. The business of the editor is to sleep up town all d~y and at night he prowls around a newspaper office and at midnight he takes a blu€ pencil and assassin- ates every bright and readable idea that the smart reporters have brought in during the day.\ \I'he editor is all epithet while the reportet is all proof. The editor calls a n1an a chicken thief and gets sued for libel, while the repor- ter, kodak in hand, interviews him while picking off the feather~ in his back yard, and . the next day the thief takes a whole adver- tisetnent to shut up the newspaper.\ \ No,\ continued Eli, \I hope I am a nevvspaper man, and I dread the time \Vhen FTER his lecture before the journalistic class at Corn ell University, a sophomore asked Eli Perkins when he becatne a 1 journa- list. · I shall get old and stupid and have to kill my own bright things which made the people glad, so-ld newspapers and made Americans know me.\ \ Never,\ saj d Eli, \ but I do hope that after twenty years more experience to become a newspaper tnan. '' \ Well, what is the difference?'' as ked the sophomore. \Just this, my son,\ said Eh, reporter calls himself a journalist. \A callow As George A TALK ABOUT FOOT BALL. ~ooT BaH, although comparati\Tely a new ___, game at Union, is firmly believed in, and its merits ful_ly appreciated by the coll_ege at large. But why expatiate on the fine q uali- ties of the game, for surely they have been .;·· I • I . ' ,_. ' .•.• !. '

' ' .;·· .... . ' .• . • !. ' I .. ·: l ~ \' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. I/ ably lauded in this paper and many others so : ''scrub\ should also feel their responsibility many times, and even if they bad not, every . and give the Varsity all the practice possible. one who has any bent toward athletics knows The '~scrub\ is ofmore importance than one thern thoroughly. at first supposes, for it is the '' scrub or \Vhat we are after is something more second eleven \ that develops all the players specific, \What kind of a team will Union · for the succeeding years. It might be weH College present this fall?\ This question is to suggest here, that the second eleven should exceedingly apropos now, since last spring be organized as much as possible with every the B~se Ball team gave such a fine demon- man having a fixed position, a captain,. stration of what they amounted to, by carry- signals, et~. ing all before them and ·capturing the cham- One more thing that appeared strange pions hip in the league. was, that some of the n1en did not train any Of course the above question can be too strictly. Smoking~ for instance, cannot answered by the team only, by the game they he tolerated, and this should be stopped not put up this fall. But I thought perhaps it only by the captain, but the tnen the.mselves might be well to write a few lines in order to should stop volu·ntarily; the Foot Ball season is so short, only two 11.1onths, and it really is show what impression the team made upon not hard to deny oneself a thing if the mind one who has the interests of Old Union so is thoroughly n1ade up to it. What a pitiful warmly at heart, and one who wishes to see sight a team presents in the last half of a her take the same position in Foot Ball as she game \all winded\ and hardly able to stand; did in Base Ball last spring, i.e. \the top of to say nothing of the unpleasant feeling, yes, the heap.\ and sometimes even suffering the players themselves experience when in such a con- In the first place, I was n1uch pleased (and clition. not a little pleasantly surp:ised) to find such It would be unfair to criticise the playing an amount of good solid material from which of the team so early in the season. Suffice to build an \ eleven.\ If the team is not a it is to say the team is abundantly able and success it will not be on account of a lack of I am certain will play good foot ball, after they have played a match or two and are material to choose from. But with all this more settled and seasoned . pleasing display, (must I say it?) one was Now for a few \stereotyped pointers\: naturally struck by what might be called a Practice falling on the ball. This is of laxity of hearty co-operation. Please take great importance. Tackle low, between the notice of the word \hearty.\ Without co- knees and the waist ; tackling is just one half of the game, for it is impossible to score operation little can be accomplished. Now against a team that tackles surely. Remember the college has improved greatly in this tackle low; it is the only way of bringing direction within the last two years, neverthe- down your man. You have a sufficient num- less there is still room for in1provement. A ber of tricks, and now all there is for you to captain cannot get up a winning tearrl unless do in this direction, is for every man to learn them and the signals perfect] y. the team that he selects gives him the most rfo the Team: Tackle low, fall on the able support of which they are capable. ball and play hard and your success is And furthermore the team cannot do itself assured. justice \vithout a most hearty co-operation To the College : Give the team all the from the college at large. Therefore the encouragen1ent in your power, both collec- tively and. individually, and you will have \Varsity Team\ should never fail to be on a team that will do credit to \Old Union.\ the field at practice and do all in their power Heartily yours, to aid the captain and management. The . CHAS. W. CuLVER, '89.

I8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE :CONCORDIENSIS. PUBUSHED SEMI-MOJ-;TH1.Y BY STUDENTS OF UNION ·CoLI.::EGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. B. c. LITTLE, '9I' W. A. Me DoNALD, '91, ?.·· HOMER B. WILLIAMS, '92, f ~-~-,'92, L. H. CARRIS,, '93, }· J. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FERGUSO~, '91, G. F. MosHER, '92, 1.: -- ---------, '93, s EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. AssociATEs. LITE 1 RARY EDITOR. A.SSISTANTS. BuSINEss 1.\tlANAGER. A.SSISTANTS. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2.00 PER YE.AR, IN ADVANCE. I5 CENTS. We desire our friends to send us contlibutions, iterns of interest and information concerning A;lumni. Extra copies can be obtained on application to Busiaess Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will·kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be made and sent to THE: CoNCORDIENSIS, Schenectady, N. Y. --------------------- -- Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as sec0nd-class matter. ==--=-~-~ - - ~-- ~. - =--==- -_::-c-- ·-- ----~-==~:.--=-::---=- -====c-=. -=-=-=- ===== Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenect::1dy, N.Y. -- - -- ~ . - -- -~- - ---- HE CONCORDIENSIS with this, the second ~ issue of the year, wishes to express its gratitude to all those students, a:lumni and others, who, by enrolling their names as its subscribers have given the editors hope and confidence to carry out their plan of making the paper a semi-monthly. It was with much fear and tretn bling that the board of editors decided upon this innovation, which entails a great deal of time, labor and ex:pense, and the fear and tre.mbling are not over yet, but these have been very much reduced by the rnany expressions of approval, well-wishing and advice which we have received fron1 both undergraduates and alumni, showing that there are a great many of UHion's sons who take an interest in our undertaking and desire its success. The editors therefore in finding so many friends who give them en- couragement, feel that they thus- have an incentive to work which would be lacking were they to feel that nobody cared whether THE CoNc6RDIENSTS failed or succeeded, and ·so they intend to work and make THE CoN- CORDIENSts an honor to the college, the students and the alumni. * * * MELVILLE D. LANDON, (Union, '6r,) or, as he is more popularly known, \Eli Perkins,'' has kindly consented to allow THE CoNCOR- DIENsrs to publish several advance sheets of his forthcoming book, u Kings of Platform and Pulpit.\ In this issue '' Eli \ gives an account of Mark Twain and his peculiarities, and articles on Josh Billings, Nasby, Robert ]. Burdette, and perhaps others will follow. These are personal reminiscences . of '' EJi P k . '' d . . h\ h er: Ins an· , wnttell In .. 1s · umorous way, wiU be highly appreciated no doubt by the readers of THE CoNCORDIENsrs. The book of which these ar6cles are, as he expresses it, ''only the first bites,\ will be p~1blished some time next year, and will contain biographies,, reminiscences and lectures of forty leading humorists, lecturers, preachers and orators., and will undoubtedly be eagerly seized upon by all of Eli's friends and especially by his young friends in Union College for whorn he has done very much in the way of n1aking them \laugh and grow fat.'' * 7:· * WE intend as soon as possible to publish in these columns a fac-simile of the famous ''Song to Old Union,'' as it was originally written by Fitzhugh Ludlow nearly forty years ago. This fac-simile appeared last year in the college annuat the\ Garnet\ but that book is now out of print and no n1ore copies are to he had. It is for the benefit of Union's alumni, many of whom have requested us to do this, that we are going to reprint this fac- simile, for it cannot but be interesting to them to see, in a reproduction of the author ~s handwriting. the song that, each Comrrlence- ment, rings through these gray old walls, telling of the fame and honor of our Alma Mater. i ' ' ' I i .·. I• \ ' ~ \ ' . ',· i I I I ! I f I ·. I ... ,. ; l · ... \':··

i .. ' I i . I• \ ' ~ \ ' . ' . i . _,- .. I I I . ! I . f I ·. I ... ,. ; l THE CONCORDIENSIS. rg THE religious meetings held in the chapel. mores as his companions. It is needless to · every Sunday afternoon and conducted by say he missed his class \set-up.\ The Dr. Webster, are exceeding! y i~ teres tin g. .President of the class was too wise to be A large number of the students attend regu- · caught, and at the appointeu tin1e turned up larly, although the attendance is in no way all right. Mr. Rice acted as 'Toastn1aster compulsory. The stucly of the Bible is taken. on account of tbe enforced absence of Mr. up very informally and from the questions Daley, the regular Toastn1aster, and carried asked and answered, and the clear and enter- his honors very well. The class of '94 can taining teachings of Dr. Webster, a great deal brag of having had a larger number of men of knowledge is obtained of that Book, the pre--ent at their first class supper than any • study of which is so apt to be neg~ected by other class has had for the last six or seven the college student. The rneetings begin at years, anc;J in spite of the few dravvbacks that three o'clock and last but orie hour, and not have been mentioned, the \set-up\ was a only a: large number o-f students, but all the n1ost successful one and everyone that vvent students should try to attend them regularly. thoroughly enjoyed hin1self. NINETY-FOUR'S BANQUET. FOOT BALL. UESDA Y evening, Sept. 30, was an LAUREA'TES, 34; UNION, 4. ~ exciting tin1e for both the Fresh~man and ~LTHOUGH the gan1e at Troy on the Sophomore, classes. The Freshrnen had ~,-~twelfth of this month, resulted in a defeat recently elected their Class Officers and had . for Union, still it was interesting and not decided on the night named to hold a banquet . such a walk over for the Laureates as the at the expense, and in honor, of their newly above score rnigbt indicate The Laureates elected officers. team was composed of much the heavier men The Sophomores in sotne way got wind of and this was especially the case on the rush their intentions and resolved to spoil or at line. In the first half the Union tearn failed least to interrupt in some way or other, to score, and the Laureates made 18 points Ninety-four·s first banquet, and they were on four touch-dovvns and a goal. One of very nearly successful. A nun1ber of Fresh- these touch -dovvns was n1ade by Ralston men were captured on their way to the ban- when he vvas plainly off side, but the referee quet hall, and taken to different rooms in . would not acknowledge this and so the score the dormitories and there locked up. Inone counted. In the second half, Union sue- room which adjoins one of the professor's ceeded in n1aking a touch-down by a lucky houses there were seven Freshn1en u ncler catch and a good run of nearly half the length lock and key, and they would undoubtedly ofthefield byStewart The Laureates made have staid there all night had not that kind- four more touch-downs in this half, princi- hearted professor during the evening softly i pa11y by means of their heavy rush line which opened the door_ which connected their , 1 vvas used to advantage in forcing the ball prison with a room in his house, and through the centre. In the first half of the silently conducted them through his house game Furbeck and Kinney vvere hurt and and out of the back door, from whence they Robertson and S. T. Braman took their made tracks for the hotel where their supper places. In the second half, Me Cowatt was was to be held. The Toastmaster was cap- laid out and Van Voast, ·93, was disqualified tured down town and forced into a hack and for slugging, Cassidy and iL J. Braman being enjoyed a long night ride with four Sopho- substituted for them. Me Cormack of the

~. :~~ t~~~ : : . ' ' :, ! t , I ! •. : : ; • ' ~ . '' ' '' l ·,' ' , ~ ' I i 1 t' 1: ''· ,, 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. • - ---=--:.-----_-_ =-=--=-:-::--::.==-=--::;======================== Laureates was also disqualified 'for slugging in this half. Coons and Clute played the best game for Union,, while Flack did most of the playing for the Laureates.. The teams lined up as follows: LAUREATE. UNION. Fleming ............. Centre Rush ............. Coons Arosemina ........... Right Guard. . ... A. Van Voast Me Pherson .......... Left Guard .............. l\II iller Ralston .........•.... Right Tackle ........... Stewart Draper .............. Left Tackle .... H. S. V.an Voast Me Cormack ......... Right End ......... , .... Yanney Garland .............. Left End .........••••.. Kinney Ide ................... Qyarter Back. ............. Clute · Lyon ................ Right Half- back ........ Gregory Hine ................ Left Half-back ......... Fur beck Flack ........... ~ ..... Full Back ............ Me Co watt THE TEN:NIS TOURNAMENT. \'lfER Y much interest was taken by the M. students in the tennis tournament which began on Thursday, Oct. g. The entries -in the singles were as ·follows : Preston., Little, Daley, '92, Prest, Webster, Campbell, Per- kins and Daley, '94. The playing in the first. rounds was not e·specially exciting in any case~ the victors being able ge\nerally to defeat their opponents very easily. The scores were : Perkins, Preston, 6-4, 6-o; Campbell, Little, 6.:.1, 6-3; Daley, 'gz,. Web- ster, 6-2, 6-4 ; Daley, '94, Prest, 6-3, 6-3. In the second round the playing was much more interesting, although Campbell defeated Perkins, 6-1, 6-o, each game was cl'ose and ·well contested. The contest between the Daley brothers was 'it v~ry exciting one and some very fin~ playing was done by each. The volleying and placing of Daley, 'gz, was very good, but bis brother's sure and steady playing was what decided the contest. The score, Daley, '94, Daley, '92, 6-3, 1-6, 6-z. As it rained on Friday, the sets between Daley, '94 and Campbell for first place, vvere not played until Saturday morning. rfhose. ~ who did not see the sets between these men were very unfortunate, as it was the best tennis doubtless that has been played on the campus for a long time. These players were very even~y watched, and until the very last point was played it was exceedingly doubtful as to who would be the winner. Campb~Il played an exceedingly brilliant game and a n1ucb stronger and harder game than his previous p:laying had shown, but again the steady, stn·:r.~ playing of Daley proved in vi nc- ible and he came out the victor, score, 7-5, 7-5. The playing of Daley, '94 was of the best all through the tot~rnament, and he certainly deserved :first place. The struggle for second place occurred Monday afternoon, when Daley, '92, first defeated Prest 6-4, 6-I, and then Campbell, 6-4, 5-7, 6-2. Both of these contests were well played and especiany the -one between Daley and Campbell. The doubies had not been played at the time of going to :}Hess. A LAH.GE BEQUEST TO UNION. ~s THE CoNCOI{DIEN'3IS is just going to press, news is received that Thomas Armstrong, Union, '71, has deeded property 'North $75,000 to. his Alma Mater. The pro- , perty is situated in Plattsburgh, this state. It is understood that this gift has been given to be used in establishing a professorship of ' political economy and social science. Old Unio~ is to be. most heartily -congratulated on her good fortune, and the heartfelt thanl{s of every. al urn nus goes out, to the generous donor. No more the c1·ash of the three base hit; No tno1·e \ three strikes, you're out,'' No more on the players' bench we sit, No more the coacher's shout, No tnore, alas.! No more. You see instead, eleven strong men, You see a rush, a down, You see a. foot ball game and then, You see them limp thro' town, You see, hurrah! U. C. r ! I !' t' f .. ' r-·· .. I' . I (.• I ~ ! . : I r I : · ... i ' i i i r I.

r ! I t:. t f .. ' t··· .. I' . I (.• I ~ ! . : I r I. i · .. 1 . i i i r I. THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 ----------- .. =========- ------------- ------· --------- . ------- ------- -----·- _________ ,_ \'> OF INTEREST TO STUDENTS. excellen.t manner. ·He gave th.em a great -Union versus Hamilton at Clinton, Oct. n1any \'pointers\ on how to play tpe game, zsth. which ,they will do well to follow. His article in this nun1 her of the \Concordy\ is also -Tbe Tennis Association has purchased full of rnuch good advice to foot ball men. new nets and a marker. -The following are the class officers for -Anyone not receiving his \Concordy\ the present year, of the Sophomore class: regularly, should notify the Business Manager President, E. D. Lines; Vice President, H. D. Cordovez ; Secretary, J. R. Morey ; at once. Treasurer,. J. C. Me Alpine; Foot Ball -Briggs, '91, has returned to c.ollege. Director-, L. VanValkenburgh; Base Ball The foot :~all team is n1uch strengthened . Director, B. R. Babcock ; Toastmaster, C. thereby. W. Field; Poet, E. G. Conde; CoNCORD- -Dr. Webster has heen confined to .his IENsr:; Editor, H. D. Mercha~t. house for over a week; he has been suffering fro.m lumbago. _ PERSONAL. -The Idol seems at last to have a per- 37· R.ev. Dr. Samuel H. ·Hall, of Newark, ,m,anent coat of paint,. that is, permanent until' l\J. J., clred at his borne on October 9· He 'g5 enters college. . was a Presbyterian clergyman, and until his retiren1:ent a few years ago, was at the head -The State Street Opera llouse has been of the New York Seaman's Aid Society. newly fitted up and is now presenting some '45· Judge Robert Earl is the candidate first-class attractions. on both the Republican and Democratic -It is time for the Students Tramp Asso- tickets, for re-<3lection to the bench of the ciation to begin to think of taking its annual C<~urt of Appeals. . . lk t th H l ·d · b - I' , 46. Andrew J Perry IS the Republican wa o e e er ero-s , d · d f R · · c - . _ ,. , b • ! can ·I ate . or · epresentat1 ve In ongress -Ninety-twos Garnet board has been from the second Con()\ressional District • b ' organized with Furbeck as Editor-in-Chief, which includes part of the city of Brooklyn. and Meserve as Business Manager. '49. Col. Silas W. Burt, ex- naval officer -Saturday, ,Oct. 1 1 , at Ithaca, Cornell of th_e Port of New York, has, been elected d £ t d R h t t £ t b 11 b f 1 restdent, and Samuel Marsh, 67, one of the e ea e oc es er a · 00 a Y a score 0 directors of the Bankers' Loan and In vest- g8 too, and_on the same day Williams College ment Company, a new trust company just defeated Ridgefield, 46 too. organized in New York. -Donnaly, '94, has l~ft college and re- '57· John_ A. De Remer is the Republican turned to his hon1e in Louisiana. He has candidate for County Judge of Schenectady h d th t d 'ffi lt d h f d h County. a some roa l cu y an · e oun t at , R I) H . A p 11 h . . . . . . 73· ev. r. ~· enry . owe , as the northern cl1n1ate dtd not agree w1th h1m. declined a flattering call to Worcester. Mass., -The Sophom.ore and Senior Engineers and will remain in Brooklyn. have been occupied, under Mr. Little, in sur- '~o. Job P. Lyon has been elected city veying -yan Slyck's Island! where the wel:s, 1 att,o)rney of Seattle, Washingt?n. from which Schenectady 1s soon to get Its : oo. John Ickler was marned on August water supply, are located. ! 5, last, to Miss Ida E. Stowe11, of Peoria, Ill. -Ginebra, who was at Union last year, I rfhe happy couple are absent on a year's tour expects to return in about three rnonths from through Europe. his home in Hayti, where he has been during '85. Frank Bailey has been elected Vice the sumn1er, and enter R. P. I. l-Ie will be \ President of the Title Guaranty and Trust much missed by the Union base ball team. Con1pany, of New York. -Culver, '89, vvas in Schenectady, recently, ; '8g. E. S Hunsicker was recently elected for a few days, and coached the foot ball \ 1 a Congressional Delegate and afterwards ap- men, for the short time he . was here, in an pointed, by the nominee, a conferee.

AlJVER TISEMENTS. RICHMOND ST'RAIGHT ·CUT NO. 1 CIGARETTES. 1 Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade Cigarettes, will find this brand superior to all others. The Riohmond Straight Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the · old and original brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was bought out by us in the year r875. Beware of Imitations, and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. T-he A,]l;,.JL,B N &. ~liN1r'8R B:~ta~it~llJ. Of the Am .. erican Tobacco Company, Manttfacturers, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. MACINTOSHES ! I Both f.rom Chas. Macintosh & Co., England, for whom we are sole agents, and our best American makers. We have now a stock of about 150 Men's Coats from! $6 to $27. There is no factor of society that finds in them such utility as College Men. \Ve invite your inspection. CO'\rRELL & LEONARD, HATTERS, Fl/RRIERS AND IMPORTERS, 472 and 474 Bt·oadway Albany, N. Y. LATEST ENGLISH CIGARETTES THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD. BOSTON ONE-PRIGE •. • GLOTHINg ·. • HOU$E, J2o STATE ST., SCHENECTADT, N. r. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents Fur- nishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. Successor to A. M. Powers, PHOTOQ:l~AVHIC ~ ARTIJT, No. 4~1 State St.; Schenectady, N.Y. Dr. 0. J. GROSS, Ojfice hours from 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. I56 J'A r STREET, SCHENECTADr, N. r. . ! \ t.-·. .. .. :-, ,· \ .. : ·. 1 ' . ! ' ...... .. '• i. i ) ... ,: \ '

