Volume XIII, MARCH, 1.890. @? ·u·· ·o ~a•• 01 n SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CON'\TE~TS. EDITORIAL,. 77 The Second Junior Hop, A Brace in Athletics, LITERARY-.- . .- ~- ,.::.\ - . Null}ber 6. a r Reminiscences of tbe Class Graduating at Union College,. Schenectady, 1834~ - 78 The President to the Students, 83 83 84 Gillespie Club Department-\ Asphalt Pave- ments\ ' CoLLEGE NEws- An Important Athletic Change, The New CatalogQe, Freshman Class Supper, - T.T~ - LOCALS, - 8o PERSONALS, INTER-COLLEGIATE NEWS, 8 I . NECROLOGY, 81 . EXCHANGES, 8 I REVIEWS, - ' 82 PoETRY- Alumni Association Year Book, Sophomore Class Srrpper, - 8 2 Vespers, · Junior Class Supper, 82 An Autumn Leaf, - . 84 86 86 87 88 88

. I ' !i I . I I { f i f I 1 1 l II l I I I l . ! I f I .I I I )' • UNION UNIVERSITY HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL.D.,. PresideJ?,t UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. · 1. CLASSICAL Coc.asE-The Classical Course is the usual baccalaureate course of American colleges. Students may be permUted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-In the Scientific Course the modern languages a1·e substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathe- matical and English studies is increased . . 3. ScHooL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING-The student in this department enjoys advantages nowh.ere surpassed in the c011rse of instruction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulation of many yeal's by the late Professor Gillespie, .and also in unusuaJ facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrmnental field work. 4. EcLECTIC CouRsE-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue ·it. On the completion of this a cer-tificate of attainment will be given. There are also spe'cial courses in Analytical Chemistry, 1\fetallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address IIEN'RY WIIITEHORNE, Dean ofthe Faculty, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. AL:BA:NY l\fEDICAL CoLLEGE-Term commences first Tuesday in September and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. Ex:rENsEs-:Matriculation fee, $5; term fee, $100; perpetual ticket, $50; grachtation fee, $·~5; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPART11ENT OF LAW. TrrE ALBANY LAw ScrrooL-Tbe course of instruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The ad vantages for the stndy of law at Albany are as great ·;; . as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State is open to students; the ·General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Depal'tment, and all the terms of the Ceurt of Appeals. Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each year, in advance. For infm·mation address · Prof. HORACE :E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany, N. Y . DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronony and Meteorology. For infor- mation address Pt·of. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY .. ·ALBANY, N. Y.-For information apply to Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.

ADVERTISEMENTS. FOR CHOICE <! u t jftow:er·st FLORAL DESIGNS OR BASKETS, -GO ~o-~-~~ 'EGE;R, the Florist, 27:5 .State St. Greenhouses~ 8~5 Union Street. :Flowers furnished for parties at ' short •n<Jtice. · · C OLLEGE STUDENTS who would like to: earn from one hundred to fiv,e hundred doHars : during vacation m:onths are invited to •correspond with i the undersigned. Send for ~our illustrated catalogue,. , and if you will state just when you will be ready to . ·Commence work and how long you can continue at it, · we will guarantee to rnake you an acceptable proposi- • tion. · CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO., Publishers of the Grant and Sheridan Memoirs, Ma·rk · Twain's books, and other standard works, No .. 3 East I4th St., New York. DE LONG'S ladles' and Gentlemen's Dining Rooms, ro2, I04 and 106 Wall Strut. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T .A.L::EJC>T, 505 STATE STREET. K LEE~~~;En & coNFECTIONER, 2r.5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings~ Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. ''Moral: Insure -in the 7 RAVELERS.'' H. F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ·0 NE - P'RICE Clothing and Men's Ft1rnishing Goods House, .JII STATE STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. JMJ:A:OE r::::\O o:e:OE'B- Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work . .Fancy Ices, Cream, 7elli'es, Ckarlctte de Russe,Neapolt'tan Creams, Rontatt Pmeck, Bt'scwit Glace, Plwm Puddt'n,g. Glace, Tuttl Frutti and Fmtcy Oratege and Nougat Pyramids ·btallstyles,Cki'ckenand Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey~ Capon aftd Larded Game, Oyster Patties, etc., etc. TABLE SETTING, FRATERNITY. DINNERS AND SUPPERS A SPEGiiALTY. Prices Lower thain the Lowest.

AD VER'TISEMENTS. . .. . COLLEGE BOOKS,. • • • Drawing Papers, Pe-ncils and Instruments. All grades of Station- ery. O?~ders for special books not in stock filled jJ'JYJmjtly at the lowest prices. HULBERT, 235 State St., ·(below the canal bridge,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y . R OBERT' T. MOJR. (Su.ccessor to J~hn Gilmour,) . H ENRY A. KERSTE, Ph. G., DEALER IN @)) lP~nrmarisl. (®) TOILET ARTICLES~ SOAPS, P.E.J?FUMES, Etc. 33.3 State and I$0 Centre St1ceet, A FINE LINE OF SCHENECTADX, N. Y. Imported and Dom·estic Cig·ars and Cigarettes, Agency for Anchor, Inman. and Hambur.g-Americall Trans-Atlan- tic Steamship Lines. STA~FORD .BLOCK. lJNION STREET PH:ARM.A<JY, Cor. Union and Yates Sts., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. RESTAURANT IN THE G LOJlE HOTEL, ]. A. HoucK, Proprietor. Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, now under the direction of the Association. Rooms· . especially reserved for Ladies. Cor. State and Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. J< Open from 7 A. M. to Io .P. M. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner, 25c. Rooms. Prices Moderate, Pleasant BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, 32e STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur- nishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WO.RK A SPECIALTY. ~~GO TO~- ............._...__ L • ___ .T. CLUTE'S, zz7 State Street, FOR THE CORRECT STYLES IN Also a /ullline o.f Trunhs, Bags, GlozJes, {lmbrel- las, &c., &c. Agent for _DUNLAP CELEBRATED HAT. Terms: $2.00 per day. B ARHVTE & BIRCH, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD, - Lt'nze, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Graln, Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 UNION STREET, i SCII\ENECTAD y N. Y 209 and .211 noci{ STREET, I ' · · J • H. DEVINE, Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot- Wear Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dres.s Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies' Fine Foot- Wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Kail orders promptly attended to.

HE* ,ONCORDIENSIS Vat. XIII UNION COLLEGE, MARCH, 1890 No. 6 THE CoNCORDIENSlS .. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS: F. E. HAWKES, 'go, ' ----,go, B. C. LITTLE, 'gr, W. A.- McDoNALD, 'gr, HoMER B. WIL~IAMS, '92, .~ L. H .. CARRIS, 93, \ H. T. MosHER, 'go, J. W. FERGUSON, 'gr, G. F. MosHER, 'gz, E. B. BAKER, 'qo,. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. AssociATES. ' - LITERARY EDITOR. AssiSTANTS. BusiNEss EDITOR. AssiSTANTS. GILLESPIE CLUB EDITOR. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $L50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 20 CENTS. We desire our friends .to send us contributions, items of inter- est and information concernino- .A1nmni. · Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business ~an-' , ager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kind~y notify Business Manager. . All remittances .should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIEN- SIS, Schenectady, N.Y. · Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as secoud·class matter. BRANDOW PRINTING.COMPANY, ALBANY, N.Y. NEXT cornmencement dozens of men will hand in essays ranging in length from 500 to 5000 words, upon 1nost difficult and abstruse subjects, in corn petition for prizes, 1nost of which are under $25. r~rhree months ago an enthusiastic and loyal alum11us offered through this paper a prize of $25 for a Union College song; 'vhich necessaril v did not need to exceed \ . twelve lines in length. We are ashamed to announce that far fro1n the required ten songs have been offered in colnpeti- tion. According to the conditions, there- fore, the prize cannot be awarded. Had the co.mpetition been {)pen to the alumni, we have no doubt that the strife would have been lively, for Union's lyrical spirit has 11:ever l1eretofore been found failing. It eertainly does not speak well for the spirit and 1pental calibre of the college to-day that this prize should have to go hunting for a winner. As the donor of the prize has generously placed its disposal in the hands of the CoNOORDIENsrs, we have decided to leave the competition open until April 15th, when the 00NCORDIENSIS for that month will go to press. If ten different· 1nen shall then have offered songs, the prize will be a warded. · If not, then the best two or three of the songs will be published in this paper, and either the competition will be thrown open to alumni or the prize will be offered for ·merit in some other ·direction. · rrhe conditions for COlll.petition will be found in nu1nber three of the CoNCOHDI- ENSIS. Now let us take hold of this with a will! Let it not be said that there are not ten men in Union College who can write a twelve line s9ng! Let us prove that the confidence of the donor was not n1.isplaced. * vV E recently con1pared the last issue of the catalogues of a large number of insti- tutions occupying an equal or higher posi- tion in the educational world than Union, a11d were greatly surprised by the com- parison. With the exception of those issued by Princeton, University of Minne- sota, and two or three other great institu- tions, ours is far superior to all. Especially is this true of those con1ing fron1 New York state colleges, several of which ren1ind one at once of patent n1edicine advertisetnents. 1,he catalogue, although isRued at· quite an expense, is a great credit to the institution.

78 THE CONCORDIENSIS. AccouNTS of the different class suppers : are given in other colun1ns.. They appear · to have been veTy successful in every .· point but that of attendance. A class •· supper held by only fifty per cent of the . class does not speak V\reH for the spirit of ' that elass; and it is difficult. to understand .. why classes that promised so much and.: that have appeared to such advantage · heretofore should not be equally enthusi- •· astic in the matter of a supper. As these . suppers are held generally :in large places and are necessarily somewhat public, it should be our endeav0r to make them representative in every particular. * THE papers have lately had a great deal to say in regard to Bradley Martin of New York city, a graduate of Union in 1863. Mr. Martin is very wealthy and his family is said by Frank Leslie's to be the fourth· in social position in New York. Recently we read of a ball given by this gentlen1an at the enormous expense of $50,000; but we have failed to read of any donation from him to Union or to any other col- · legiate institution. If we are mistaken, we will gladly accept correction. * a month on account of a southern trip taken by Mr. Landon. We have noticed, with pleasure, a great dea[ of inquiry and interest in this approaching article~ and assure our readers that their disappoint- nJ:ent i:s oo more than our own. Mr. Lan- don assures us that it will be ready for our AprH number. IN this number will be found an article of reminiscences, by the Rev. J. 0. C;euik r shank, '34, of Little Falls, N. J. Mr. Cruikshank is superintendent of public instruction in Passaic county, New Jersey. Besides \being a graduate of Union, he is an alum:nus of the Theological Seminary of Brunswick,. N. J. * ~· * WE take great pleasure in illustrating this month the newly appointed minister to Russia; Charles Emory Smith, Union, '61. The excellent cut is obtained through the kindness of the Journalist, published at New York city. In the last number of the Journalist, a long and interesting sketch of Mr. Smith accon1panied this likeness. PATR()NIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. Reminiseences of the Class Graduating at Union College, Scheneotady, 1834. _ The class was formed in the usual wav. .; THE Mail and Express of February 19th contained a very able article upon the standard of oratory at the present day. It was inspired by the attitude of \Eli Perkins\ upon that subject; and differed from him upon the ground that he himself uses the most consummate elo- cutionary .art in advancing the idea that oratory is on the decline. The suggestion is also made that perhaps this id~a is the hugest joke of all in that symposium of jokes and wisdom delivered by Mr. Landon. * THE 00NCORDIENSIS regrets sincerely that ''Eli Perkins\ article will be delayed The writer joined it the third term of the sophomore year, and soon became familiar with coHege routine duties and studies. Once in June, at early dawn, the students vvere awakened by an announcement in the section haJl that Gen. Scott and his conJ- tnand would breakfast at the Davis Hotel. The troops had been brought from New York by steamboat during- the night to Albany and were hastened on to Schenec- tady by the railway cars. They were on their way to the Black Hawk Indian war.

rrHE OONCORDIENSIS. The students rushed down to the hotel to , ceeding any further.'' What, stop the see the ''Hero of 'Ohippeway,\ and his· cholera, at the point of the bayonet, or by soldiers. They were soou off in canal : .shaking an old rusty blunderbuss at it ? boats, already waiting to take them to · Poor fellows, hurried off without fitting Buffalo as fast as horse speed could. rGen. · conveniences, one-third of them, it was Scott, his battles) and his troops, were • said, succumbed to the disease. This stupid subjects of conversation for days in col- · effort to arrest the progress of the cholera lege circles. The troops never reached ·· carne to an end, and the emigrants were their destina:tion, and the soldier excite- ' allowed to ·go on their way. A .sanitary ment passed away. College study and, commission, made up of guns .and blunder- foot--ball were renewed with vigor,. and all·. busses, had not been of much repute. The out-door exercises. The young men were . · mern bers of -the class were called to return, orderly, played but few pranks, were bent · October 1st, in numbersgreatlydilninished. on mental culture and a respectable eiass . But fevy joined the class until the senior standing. Theve came hours of deep year, when from the eastern colleges came thought, anxiety at heart, and a sober eleven or fifteen, who wished to attend expression on the face. The press, th~ •· Dr. N ott's lectures on elocution. The country over, was an alarmist. ,., The • IlUlnber appeared respectable on gradu- Asiatie cholera is upon us. It win be .• ating day, there were on ron sixty-six, but here. It will be brought on by the great: only thirty were in attendance. Twenty- channel of comn1ercial intercourse. The five of the sixty -.six entered the ministry. scourge of all lands. New York, inland . A classmate writes: '~I was sent to the cities and villages ·will be made desolate.\ borders of civilization to fight the devil, How the Nevv Yoi\k papers were watched the Indian and poverty.\ every evening ancl. morning; it was a relief: Comn1ence1nent day, 23d of July, 1834, No cholera ~yet. Human predictions are was beaLltiful. The Reformed church was not ·always true. The cloud was not to well filled. President Nott,. ven.erable, tl1e hang over New York first, and pour its model college president,. presided, sur- n1alignant contents on that great and rounded on the stage by trustees and state wicked city. officials, Gen. Wm. L. Marcy, OhancelloT In the second week of July, after morn- Walworth, Chief Justice Savage, Secre- ing prayers, Dr. Nott informed the tary of State John A. Dix, and others of s~udents that, with the exception of the note in the state and chut\ch. Orations seniors, they were dismissed. He wished· were limited to eight minutes,noprompters them to leave that day and not to return allowed. A student from .Schenectady until notified. He said that '' yesteTday, was on the program to speak a poem, emigrants, who had con1e into the country \Female Education.\ He can1e upon the by the way of Quebec, had con1e up the stage beautifully attired. For three min- lake and shipped with their effects on utes he followed his prepat·ed poem, then canal boats, at Whitehall, for the Erie .suddenly turning his back to the audience canal and the west, had been stopped at stood face· to face with Dr. Nott; Mechanicsville, the cholera . had broken assuming a belligerent position, shaking his out amongst them, and they had buried fist, he began to pour out volumeaftervol- already several of their number; and that ume of vile epithets, acc~1sil1g him and the two companies of militia had been for- faculty of being arbitrary, of oppression warded from Troy i.io prevent their pro- and severity in their goveTnment and

80 THE' OONO·ORDIENSIS. college exactions-a faculty of 'yrants. erty has indeed ~~ecommended the appli- In a high pitch of voice he shou.ted: · cation of th€ C()Inpressed material to the '' I will not take your diploma II'Ol1l your •· n1aking of paven1ents. Its use for this hands, I tear it in fragments, scatter them purpose seems to have been suggested by to the winds .. '' It was evident that he had .· accident. When the mineral was first not counted the cost of his tirade upon. quarried,. the pieces which fell along the hilnself. His face burning with rage, roads fron1 tbe wagons .carrying· it were striking his fists, as if insanity possessed • .. ground up by t,he wheels and finally eoin- him, and choked down by his high p~teh of · pressed again bJ the continual passage of voice, he broke down, actually Ean a half · the wagons over the dust, so as to for1n a circle arouncl the tight side of the platform kind of spontaneous pavement. A Swiss and graduated by a ju1np out of[ a rear · engineer, acting upon the suggestion of window of the church. this incident, asphalted a part of the road J. C. CRUIKSHANK, '34.. between Trave1~s and Pontarlier ina rough way, but with satisfacto:ry results. The GILLESPIE CLUB DEPART.M:E:NT. ''Asphalt Pavements.\ IT is a very remarkable fact, iR the his- tory of useful arts, that asphalt, w Jdch was . so generally e1nployed as a solid and durable : cement in the earliest construc-tions on · record, as in the walls of Baby Ion, should, •. for so 1nany thousand years, have fallen : well nigh into disuse among civi1i.zed Jla- tions. For there is no class of miuei'al sub- stances so ·well fitted, as this bituminous matter by its plasticity, tenacity, a.dhesive- ness to surfaces, impenetrability by water, and unchangeableness in the atrno0spbere, to enter into the composition of st11eet pave- ments and many kinds of hydraul.icwoTk. Bitun1en combined with calcareo.us eart.h forms a con1 pact, semi -elastic solid, which is not liable to suffer injury by the alter- nations of frost and thaw, which of~te11 dis- integrates, in a few years, the bard est stones, nor can it be worn a-vvay by the attrition of the feet of men or anin1.als, as readily as sandstone, flag and even g=rani te. ~1ineral asphalt is relatively a soft stone, which becon1es n1ore con1pact as tlle tem- perature din1inishes ; but yields UDder the influence of heat to such an extent that an exposure of a few days to the s.un1n1er un will cause it to crumble. This prop- ·· next year the jnspector general of bridges and highways lli\ecommended asphalt· as a n1ineral for paven1ents, in a report to the minister of :public works, and the first asphalt paven1€nt vvas laid in Paris in 1854. The Trinidad asphalt now seems -to be the best material for pavement purposes, as is already shown by it.s popular use in our large cities. This syste1n of street pavement is C(}ntrolled by three coln- panies: Barber Asphalt Paving Company, Warren-Schat·f Asphalt Company, and National Vulcanite Company. The first two mentior1€d eo1npanies' methods of making asphalt pavements· are the same, while the latteT only differs from the former in the ]percentage of asphalt, and coal-tar used in the con1position. The vulcanite is cheaper as regards the lay- ing of the pavenJ:ent, but slightly more ex- pensive to keep in repair. The asphalt pavernent is not entirely without its def€cts: First it is liable to forn1 \ wave soi·faces\ (especially on grades), wl1ich are probably due to a lack of cohesion between the wearing surface and base. Secondly the formation. of transverse cracks, which are more apt to occur on wide streets, and undoubtedly due to expansion and contraction caused by variation of tern perature. VuJ.canite is

THE CONOOROIENSIS. 81 also accompanied with its defects: First it is affected :at a lower temperature than , asphalt, and thus, during vVarm weather, it has a tendency to flow to ward the gut- • ter and gradually fill it up. V ulcanite is . not ~o liable to ''transverse cracks,\ or . ''wave surface~,\ as the asphalt on ac- · coun-t of its greater longitudinal strength, . due to a closer union of ·the base and wear- •· ing s11rface. On the other hand, in n1.aking · repairs, the surface of the asphalt can be • easily ren1.o \red and renewed, while with ;. the vulcanite the '' wearing surface \ can . not be separated fro1n the base, and, in · resurfacing, jt is necessary to overlay • the whole surface. In laying an asphalt pavement, the street should be graded to a depth below the surface of the street on the center line, equal to the thickness of the pavement • which is to be laid. The surface of the · ground is then carefully ramn1.ed and rolled . until it is perfectly s·mooth and crovvned in the center. The curb-stones having been set at the proper depth, the foundation is now ready for its concrete base, which is usually about six inches thick. The concrete is n1ade by thoroughly n1ixing the ce1nent (n1ade with as little wate1· as possible) with the broken stone upon a table. It is then spread upon the sub-grade and rammed until the surplus cen1ent flows to the top. After the con- crete has thoroughly dried it is next , covered over with the wearing surface · put on ii1 t'vo layers. The first layer, called the cushion coat, contains from two to four percent more asphalt cernent than the '' surface coat '' and is about one-half of an inch thick. Its purpose is to reduce the concussion. The final or surface coat, two inches thick, is then put on and rolled until it hardens. It is not so flexible as the \'cushion coat,\ but seen1s t.o be incapable of suffering abrasion in the 1nost crowded thoroughfares. F. L. COMSTOCK '90. An Important Athletic Change. An in1portant athletic change was con- summated at a recent college meeting, by the adoption of a plan \\Vhereby the office of base-ball director will hereafter be :fiUed by a college election. The plan pro- vides that a scorer shall be annually elected by the college, \Vho shall succeed in the following year as manager of the nine. Through this plan it is hoped that the manager will be n1ore fan1iliar with the duties of that office and that greater opportunity will be given for the choice of the best man. Preston, '91, was elected to these offices. The New Catalogue. The new catalogue has at last appeared, and aside from being lnuch handsomer and printed on heavier paper than hereto- fore, presents few changes. Several alterations a~e 1nade in the curricuhun, 111ajnly in the senior work. Political econorny win hereafter con1e third term senior, instead of second tern1 junior. .Astr·onomy, geology, and history of civil- , ization are n1ade req uit ... ed studies. The catalogue gi-ves a classification of our n1agnificent collection of specirnens in the Natural History Museun1. The depart- n1ent of zoology has 15,164, geology has 2, 3~±, and 1ninera.logy 5,000 ; making a total of 22,548. Freshman Cla.ss Supper. T'he freshman class supper was held at the Windsor Hotel in Albany on Friday evening, February 7th. ~ehe committee in charge, Messrs. Lord, Talhnan, and Thatcher, did everything in their pdvver to make the first class supper of '93 a success, and such indeed it was. The class attended Jacob's Opera House in a body ; at the conclusion of the play they

'i ,,\ 82 THE. OONOORDIENSIS. went to the Windsor, where ~fie real enjoyment of the evening began .. 'The following was the menu: Oysters, Blue Points on Half Sllet1L Soup, Chicken Gumbo. Boiled Ba:ss, Lobster Sauce. Parisienne Potatoes. Small· Chicken Pattee, ala Toulou..se. Filet de Breuf, larde.d_ with Mushro<>ms. Parmesan Potatoes. Stewed. Tomatoes. ;Green Peas. Chicken Croquettes. To.mato Sauce. Lobster Salad .. Roman Punch and Cigarettes. Roast QuaH,. larded, Celery Sauce. Baked Apple Dumpling, Wine Sauce. Neapolitan Ice Cream. Fancy Ices. Cake. Coffee. At the conclusion of the feed, Lord, the . toast-master, spoke on ''Old Union,\ then called for the following toasts·: Our President, What shall we do with '94, Our Banquet, The Class of '92, The Horse, Freshman Experiences, Our Faculty, Future of '93, D. N. Tallman .. C. W. Field. J. C. McAlpine. : A. 1M . Lewald. A. F'. Wright .• D. H. Carris. , :E. Burke. · H. S. Van Voast. , The toasts were interspersed by col- • lege songs and yells, a1nong wl1jch. the • ''Whoop Rah ! Rah! ! \ was most fre- quently beard. Oordovez furnished the instr11tnental n1.usic for the evening. Alumni Association Yec1r Bo()£. A copy of the newly issued year book of the Union College Alumni Association of New York city was lately receivetl by the CoNCORDIENSIS. It is bound in garnet and is very neat and handso1ne thToughout. It contains the by-laws, list of members and officers, the class index and ~ short history of the organiz~tion and li=fe of the association. It announces that t11e third annual meeting and banquet of the asso- ciation will be held Thursday, Dece1nber 11th, 1890, at the Hotel Brunswick, . in New York city. The book shows an associa,tion membership of 476 men, in- cluding classes from 1821 to 1889. Robert C. Alexander is the energetic secretary of the association. Sophomore Supper. The sophomores held their class supper in Albany on Friday evening, March 7th. Although several of the n1en were detained on account of sickness, tl}ose who were present kept up the reputation of the class for having a royal good time~ In the evening they took in the '' (}on- doliers. '' About twelve o'clock they sat dovvn to a sumptuous repast served up at the Windsor. After this the following toasts were responded to : I. Union, 2. Athletics! - 3. After Dutch, 4· The Ladies, 5. The Fresh, .. 6. Our Soiree, Stephen G. Doig. Archie C. Pickford. James Walker. Walter McQueen. Benjamin Sanders. Percy C. Meserve. The committee was, E.· Coons, G. Her- bert Daley and Percy 0. JYleserve. They deserve special praise for the successful way in which they carried out the affair. Junior Class Supper. On the 7th of March the junior class held their annual banqu~t at the Windsor Hotel, in Albany, occupying the same room where two years before they had sat down to their fresh1nan class supper .. Although many men were missed from the supper who were with the class on the occasion of their first supper, still the new members of the class helped to 1nake up the loss and the supper was as glorious a one as juniors in general, and '91 iu par- ticular, are apt to make such events. During the afternoon and early part of the eve11ing, the class was scattered

THE C:ONC·ORDIENSIS. 83 ----~---· ------·--------- arou11d Albany, but at the tin1e appointed .. A '' Brace\ in Athletics. for the supper to begin every junior rrhe athletic outlook at Union is very turned up all right, aud foT nearly £our ·: cheering to the heart of the n1an \vho hours they discussed the elaborat.e :Jnenn , has for four years never seen the same which was placed before then'l.. At no · spirit and interest in these matters that is titne was the n1usical talent of '91 neg- being now n1anifested. A look into the lected, and every one sang till he could •· gytnnasiun1 reveals daily a large nun'lber sing no 1nore. · Although the songs of •· of men .actively engaged in general calis- '9l's freshn1an and .sophomore years were · thenic training, while .special work with acknowledged to be e~ceUent still the :song ·. reference to base-ball and foot-ball is being which appeared on ·their junior rnenu \\vas • done by the nun1.erous candidates for posi- the great(fst favorite of the three, ancl its tions upon these teams. T,his is especially author n1ay well be proud of it. noticeable in regard to base-ball, every position having several con1petitors; vvhile the nun1ber of en1bryo catchers and pitch- The Second Junior Hop. ers is su:eprising. It really looks as if Tbe last dance of the season, no doubt, everyone means business this spring. and the best dance of :the season, so think · Manager Oon'ls:tock expects to have the the juniors at least. This was the ''jun- n1en go to a training table the first clay of ior hop,'' which was given by '91, in Ful- . next spring tern1.; his plan of selling sea- ler's Hall on the evening of the 17th of son tickets to the gan1es is tneeting with last month. Every one see1ned to realize general favor both in college and in the that, as Lent was very near·, there would city, and it is safe to say that the students probably not be another dance for a long have never supported the tean1 better, tin1e, and therefore the juniors received . financially, than they are· expected to do very few Tegrets to the large nun1be1· of . this spring. The college may confidently invitations which they sent out. Every , expect to have a tea1n worthy of this sup- one anticipated a good tin1e and no one · port and one upon which it can de1)end. was disappointed. F1 1 om half past eight McDonald ·will be in the box, and his con- in the evening until the sn'lall hou~·s of stant training and superb condition give Tuesday rnorning, the 1nusic was kept assurance that we n1ay expect telling going aln1ost continuously, and owing, no work. cloubt, to the good floor n1.anagen1entevery Nor is the athletic advance confined en- dance passed off very smoothly. As the tirely to base-ball. It is extren1ely hope- strains of the last -vvaltz sounded through ful to notice that the foot-ball n1e11 are the roon1 regrets were heard on every not 1naking the customary delay--until side_, that the dance, like all things, 1nust fall-before getting do\VIl to work. Many have an end. Many were the con1pli- of the 111.en are earnestly training and 1nents which the juniors received, and the practicing the special requirements of connnittee felt well repaid for the pains their positions. Van Valkenburg, weigh- they had taken to make their dance a ing now 17 5, is working indefatigably success. ~and those who saw him go through Roch- Robertson, Briggs and Conant were ,the ester's line last Thanksgiving can realize floor managers. The membe1~s of the what a n~agni:ficent half-back Union will comn1ittee were given in the N oven1.ber have in hin1 next fall. The financial nu1nber of the CoNCORDIENSIS. prospect for next year's tean1 is being

I r : : I f ! I - ' j ' ' ! ! : ! I I I I 1 ' J I I , I 1 . I I i I 1 ' ~ 84 THE OONCORDIENSIS. already looked after by the n1anager, '':rho is putting into suecessfnl operation- a scheme for raising n1oney fron1 the alu1nni. As the an1ount given by tbe college has never been sufficient to prop- erly equip and handle the tea1n, he hopes in this n1anner to raise enough to supple- Inent the ~u bsceiptions of the students. Altogether it appears as if the athletic developn1eut of the college vvill go side by · side with its acaden1ic and popular ad- -vancenlent. The President to the Students. ·ON March 1st a college n1eeting ~as called by President Webster on \Vhich occasion he Inade Inany pleasant and inter-. eating ren1arks. Among others, he congratulated the • faculty ( re1narking that when he referred : to the faculty he always included hilnself) . on the excellent work that is being don€ • and the interest manifest in college duties . and thanked the students for the orderly ' manner in -vvhich they had conducted · then1selves. He remarked the new spirit with which the 1nen have taken hold of their various enterprises this year as pre- saging the n1ost favorable results. He con- . gratulated the n1en on the revival of the two literary societies which once exeeted so powerful an influence on the intellectual . life of lTnion, as a Inost favorable sign of · increased literary interest. He assured the students of his sympathy and hearty cooperation in all their enterprises. He declared himself decidedly in favor of all athletics; that while the all-in1portant \ object of a n1an in college should be study, still he held that a legitin1ate an1ount of athletics was to be favored, and that 1nen who were interested in foot-ball or base- ball or other forms of athletics should be encouraged. He assured the men that they might call on him for assistance in their various enterprises and he \vould do all in his po1ver to aid them. The gym-- nasiunl is now in excellent condition, but he said that if n1ore apparatus should he needed at any time it would be furnished. Dr. Webster next stated that if at anv ·v ti1ne n1isunderstandings should arise with the faculty that all appeals, if made by representative persons, WOllld receive a fair consideration by the faculty and that, while it would be folly for hin1 to say that in all cases they would he favor- ably decided, still he assured the students, they -vvould honorably dealt with. He said be believed in dealing with n1.en as n1en, and that it was his opinion that n1en in college ought to have a voice in matters that concerned thein. At the close of his ren1arks the president a11nounced that next tern1 he would give weekly lectures on subjects chosen fron± CUITent topics of interest. Dr. V\Tebster's ren1arks elicited frequent and hearty applause from the students, vvho seemed to appreciate and favor all that he said. PATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. The Adelphic and Philo1nathean are both doing good work. The foot-ball league has adopted a constitution and by-laws. The base ball director has an11ounced that all places in the team are open. It is hoped that the new dirt courts will be ready for use at the beginning of next tern1. Son1e of the freshmen have organized a class glee club and are practicing regu- larly. The candidates for the foot-ball and base-ball tean1s are practicing daily in the ~'Gym.\ There a12pears to be much good Inaterial for both teams. I '

'THE OONCORDIENSIS. 85 There are twenty-five men t:raining for · '7th : Seniors-Bennett, ''The essential the base-ball tean1. thing;'' Bran.dn1ahl, '• Danger of trusts;\ In lieu of a class poen1, the senior class · Brown, ''Strikes ; \ Carroll, ''Law not a has decided to have each man write a four- statute ; \ Clute, '';True value of life ; \ line poem and have the eonection read Dean, ~'Relation of State and Church in class night by Deane. the United States;\ Fish, ''Future of the I t II · t fi ld d ~h·· \ll.. Anglo·-S·axo11 ,· ,., Har·d·e1·, \The h· aste· to n er-co eg1a e e •· - ay, u :rs year, w1• ·. be held at Syracuse. :This is intended as . be rich ; \ Hawkes, \ Individual opinion.\ a trial for the permanent location of· Juniors-- Briggs, \Our American Repub- tneetings of the associatioiL at Syracuse. . lie; '' Clen1:ents, ''Critics and criticisn1 ; '' H . · w p t ' h Conant, '' Should the Negro go ? ; \ Fer~ · . . res on, 91, , as been elected president of the Inter-Collegiate Base-Ball guson, ,, Character of Jefferson Davis;\ . Association for next year. Syracuse has Lay, '' :Character of Rienzi.\ the vice-president, and Han1ilton has The Schenectady Musical Society gave secretary. an invitation concert in the chapel on the The freshman class ball nine has chal- evening of March lOth. A general invi- lenged tbe fresh1na11 nine at Syracuse. tatiOI)- was extended to the students, a The gan1e will probably be played. It is large nu1nber of who1n attended and stated that a game will als-o be played thoroughly enjoyed the classical program,. Wl .·th the R P I f es·l r e p. · rintecl below. Messrs. Meserve, Coons · · · . . . . . r t :J.J.l n. F. L. Carroll, '90, has been appointed by Union to n1eet with the delegates of the other colleges in th€ assocjation at the next n1eeting of the base-ball league, in order to settle n1atters reLating to last field-day. At a recent .n1eeting of the senior class the resignation of John Knox as poet and ivy poet was received. Tbe only grove office now retnaining filled is that of ivy . orator. At this sa1ne 1neeting a tax of $10 was voted upo11 each me1nber of the class. The classes for Bible study Ineet every Wednesday at five o'clock in Prof. Hoff- nlan's room. For the past several weeks the subjec-t for discussion has been ''mira- · cles.\ The meetings have been under the leaqership of Prof. Hoffman and have been of intense interest. The senior and junior chapel orations comn1enced Febtuary 28th, and will con~ tinue. Fridays until the work is completed. The following had spoken up to March and Hills, all of '9'2, acted as ushers. PROGRAM. MoscHELES.-'' Homage to Handel.'' Misses Young and Van Voast. HERING.-'' Moorland Ride.'' Miss Hills, Mrs. Dillingham, Miss Pitkin. TEMPLE.-\ An Old Garden.\ Miss Hills. SCHUMANN.-'' 3d Movement from Sonata for piano- forte and violin,\ Op. 121. Mrs. Brown and Mr. Strachan, CooMBs.-·' The Journey is Long.\ Miss Freeman. BRAGA.-\ Angel's Serenade.\ Miss Hills. Violin Obligato, Mr. Strachan. ScHUMANN.-'' Romance,\ F. sharp major, Op. 28. Miss Quaife. SMART.-\ Down in the Dewy Dell.\ Miss Hills, Mrs. Dillingham, Miss Pitkin. RAFF.-\ Cavatina.'' HAUPTMAN.-'· Allegro from Sonata,'' Op. 23. Mr. Strachan Prof. Loisette's Memory System is Creating greater interest than ever in a~l parts of the country, and persons wishing to im · prove their memory should send for his prospectus free, as adve r· tised in another'column.

/ , 86 'THE OONOORDIENSIS. ======== ==============:::;:====::::::::::===============-==-====:-:=:::--:-~ ~ - ~-- - -- - '76. Homer Gree11 was recently in : town and signified his intention to be · present at com1nencement. I '\/'79. Edward Payson White has received · the non1ination for mayor o-f _A_Insterdam · ou the republican tiel~et I \1 '86. Married at Pbd~adelphia, March 1.2·, . 1890, J. Montgonlet·y Mosher and Miss . Eleanor B. Chapin of tbat city. '87. Bennett was h1 Schenectady lately for a day or tvv-o. . '88. Baker has b-een severely ill at Albany with pneumonia, but has re- covered sufficiently to be ren'loved to his home at Oon1stocks. PURCHASE OF ODE ADVER'£'ISERS. Stagg \Vill probao~y pitch for the Yale nine this spring. Nellie Bly wore a. D. K. EL pin during her globe girdllJlg .tt--i·p.~Cornell Daily SU1:~. . • 4 ·.A student at Yaili~,. ·was fiJ1ed ·· $20 for carving his chiss nurnl1er upon his seat in . . ' . the new Osborqe Hall. The Unive~rsity of Vjrginia base-ban . tooin intends making a tou~ of the eas.t- - efn colleges t~is spring. ~;yale is , conte1nplating a college of music which shall be ~qual in grade to the best Gern1an conservatories. · \ Of the graduating class at . Exeter Acade1ny, thirty wiil ent€r Harvard, eleven Yale, and two PTincet()n. · ~e first class dane€ ever given at Syra- • cuse University took place a short time.· since. The juniors were the bold pioneers. .Princeton has foll<r\ved the exa1nple of • Brown and Union and offers a prize of $25 for a college soug subn1itted by an undergraduate. President James E. Rhoads, of Bryn Mawr C'ollege, has r·eceived the honorary degree of LL.D., from the trustees of Union 'College. Rev. Dr. N .. L . .AndTews, dean of the faculty and professor ()f ~Greek-, has been elected to the presidency of Madison Uni- vetsity. Hen;ey H. I1yinan, a full-blooded Sioux Indian or the Yankton tribe, is one of the can:didates ·for the Yale University . nn1e. Some freshmen at :Sy1\acuse placed a pail of dirty water oveT a door through which ;Chancellor· Sitns was to pass. The dastardly trick was successful. A f1·iend of SyracL1se U niver.sity has provided a fund for the purpose of fitting up an athletic ground for the students, \vith facilities for base-ban, foot-ball and track sports. Will:ila1n BuckneH~ the benefactor of Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa., died March 5th, of apoplexy. He was a rqillionaire and a philanthropist of vvide fame aild honor. The faculty of Tufts have decided to give the degree of A. B. to students who . enter college without a 'Greek preparation provided they have ~u equivalent in French or Gern1.an. The Toronto Unive~ .. sity was burned the night of February 14:., with a loss of $1,000,000. The buil:din.gs were an1ong the finest of the class i11 America. A library of many thous.~nd volu1nes was destroy~ed. At BTown a plan is being set on foot by which the glee club and ball nine are to take a western touT during the spring recess, playing a ball g;a.rne in the after- noon with the leading c1n1;> of each city visite3, and giving a minstrel performance in the evening.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. . 8'7 '\An advisory board is to he formed at • Amherst to have control of the athletics. It will consist of the professor of physical . education, 1nanage:rs of tbe base-baH, foot- ball and general athletic tean'ls, two me1n- · hers of the facult.y and three alumni. At a recent m.eeting of the Yale corpo- ration it was formally voted to establish a departn1ent of music in tbe university, with Gustavus G. Stoeckel, for many years Yale's instructor of music, at its head. A fund of nearty $300,000 has • been placed at the disposal of the corpora- tion with which to erect a suitable build- · ing and provi~e for the employment of several instructors.-Mail and Express. ~\.speech recently delivered by George Willia1n Curtis before the alumni of Brown, is attracting a great deal of atten- tion. Comparing the colleges of to-day with those of a century ago, he said: '\ When our oldest 11niversity was founded, it was to equip n1:en for the min- istry. To-day, however, vve rBquire of a college that it shall equip and thoroughly train A1nerican citizens. We den1and that the head of a ·college shall not only be a student, shall not only be .a scholar, but that he shall be a man of affairs; a 1nan of tact; a n1an fully alive with the modern spirit . and the best spirit of his own time; of catholic syrnpathy; of not only a knowledge of men, but especially of that myriad mind ·and that strange and subtle nature which the young n1an possesses, and that upon all occasions and everywhere he shall fitly and with dignity represent the greatest force in all civilized power.\ They are With Us. In response to the t·wo prizes offered last term for the best Wi1lian1s songs only a few vvere sent. It has been decidec1 to hold open the offer till June 1, and all wishing to compete should send in their productions before that date.-Williams Weekly. ~ f '22. Dr. J a1nes R. Boyd, the author of · the well-known \Boyd's Rhetoric,\ died lately at his hon1:e in Geneva. '24. Jacob M. Schetnerhorn died in Syracuse, Feb. 23, 1890. He was born in Schenectady, Nov. 12, 1804, of one of the oldest branches of the .Schemerhorn family which came to this country in 1638. Mr. Schemerhorn graduated from Union in the class of '24. In 1828, be moved to Rochester. For some tiine be was a lawyer, afterward president of Monroe County Bank, a position which he held for five years. He -vvas identified wit~ the brick Presbyterian church, to wh1ch he was war1nly attached. In 1841 he settled in Ho1ner, N. Y., where he continued to live until the tim.e of his death: He was president of the Syracuse and Binghamton road. He always took an interest in all charitable enterprises and even after he retired from active busi- ness ljfe he kept informed on everything relating to it. He was married in 1841. to Miss l~ouisa A. Barber, daughter of th~ late Jedediah Barber, of Horner, N. Y. His wife and two sons., George J. and J. Maus Schemer horn, of New York, and his two daughters, Mrs. Lewis B. Henry, of EaS't Orange, N. J., and 11rs. John W. Fisher, of Philadelphia, survive him. ~ '42. The Rev. J a1nes Wells Coe, a dis- tinguished clergyman, died at Danville, Ill., recently. He was born in Johns- town, N. Y., and graduated from Union in 1842. He was 86 years old at the tin1e of his death. '45. Edvvard S. Foot recently fell from a balcony at Hancock, N. Y., and broke .his neck. . ~66. Lamott vV. Rhoades, died at ·Crystal Spring, Colorado. He has been district attorney of Rensselaer county, 1nen1ber of the assembly, and was alun1.ni trustee of Union from '81-'85. He was a <I> B. K.

88 THE OON·CORDIENSIS. The Pulse is the beRt of our western . exchanges. Its columns of,ten contain · verse of marked quality. ''greatest benefactors of the race.\ ''Looking Backvvard\ is not a ''vision,\ but a dream, and it can pretend to noth- . 1ng lnore. 'The 00NOORDIENSIS feels highly gratified by the generous comments of its ex- .· Mark Twain's (Samuel L. Clemens) changes concerning the song prize lately •. latest work, ''A Connecticut Yankee in offered, and concerning other features of King Arthur's Court,\ is tbe story of. the the paper. adventures of .a mechanical genius, who, Speaking of songs, we feel that we in a delirium caused by a shop broil, 1s must give evidence of our appreciation of, transported backward thirteen centuries. the lyrical department of the Brunonian. • Arriving at King Arthur's court, his im- Every issue of this excellent paper is re- : mensely superior abilities and knowledge plete with verse of surprising quality. It .· of futme events and the civilization of is hard to understand why we and so future ages brings about a prompt recog- many of our sister colleges seem to be so nition of his superior powers and his difficient in this poetical ability. installation as the king's right-hand man. Boxing is the titte of an article by Prof. His lack of noble lineage, however, pre- A. Austen, in the March Outing. Prof. vents the assumption of any title other- Austen treats his subject with the sure wise than that of The Boss, which he touch of an expert in the manly exercise rtJgards as much more satisfactory and dis-_ that he justly holds to be an art worthy tinguishing than any. title of nobility. not only of the athlete's interest and con- He seeks to bring about a nineteenth sideration, but of those of all men who century civilization in Britain; and in believe in a normal, healthy development consequence comes into a great deal of of good sinews. This paper is well illus- opposition with the enchanter Merlin, trated by instantaneous photographs, in which, however, the scientific skill of showing many of the positions assumed. The Boss invariably wins. Much of the in boxing. ludicrousness of the work lies in the de- The Columbia Spectator bemoans the . scriptions of these mental battles. 'rhe McMicken Review savs: rrhe re- , slim English course attached to the insti-: The chief idea Of the story seems to be tution; saying that the entrance require- . thtJ portrayal of the doctrines of feudalism, ments of that course are below those of·. the divine right of kings, ,and the claims most preparatory schools; and claiming . of a titled nobility in as ridiculous a light that Columbia's English course is a farce as Mark Twain's powerful sqtire is capable. up to senior year. By the way-the Spec- · But the humor, though irresistible, does tator is about our ideal of a college paper. not constitute even the greater part of the excellence of the work. Here we find the culn1ination of the quiet scorn and beau- tiful pathos so character-istic of the \Prince and the Pauper.\ Here we find his hatred of injustice and lDve of equality freely expressed. Though purporting to be but a portrayal of chivalry i:q the thne ., . view of Mr. Bellarny's book, \Looking .· Backward,\ in the 00NCORDIENSIS is a . very able one. Tile -vvriter n1ust have a very fair knowledge of the social question .. \i\r e would hesitate, though, before we vvould include Mr. Bellatny atnong the

<} THE OONOORDfEN'SIS. 89 :=::::::::===:=::::::::=:::============================~===========================-- ----- --------- of Arthur, and English lavv and custon1:s iu the ti1ne of Henry the Eighth, we ai\~e · often- times 111ade suddenly to see the eivilization of to-·day mirr(}red. in the bar- barism of the past, the san1e in principle . and only softened in custo1n. ·The woil .. k . is properly ca1l€d an extravaganza. It is a phantasmagory reared by a master of · rhetoric. The vvork is profusely illustrated by • Dan Beard, who s~ems to have enteTed • eompletely in~o the spirit of the author, :and by his abiJi t.y as artist adds immensely to the strengtli of this fascinating work. PATRONIZ.ED OUR AD\'V:E:RTISERS. Vespers. Mellow flushes faint and quiver Softly rouRd the couch of day ;. On the bosom of the river Timid bree2es float and play. Comes the night-watch-orbs surrounding- Swiftly thro' the pensive air ; · Gentle melodies resounding Lull asleep the tired player. Slow the silvery vespers breaking Sweetly over hill and dale, Tuneful echo in gs awaking, Softly sings the nightingale.- LEHIGH BURR. An Autumn Leaf. '' You are the .autumn leaf,\ said he, \And my arms are the bool{, you know, So I'll put the leaf in the book, you see, And tenderly press it, so.\ The maid looked up with a g:Iq.nce demure And blushes her fair cheeks wore, As she softly whispered, \The leaf, I'm sure, Needs pressing a little more.\ - f.-Villia1JZs Weekly. The Wellesley g!rls say, As at vespers they pray : \ 'Help us good maids to be ; Give us patience to wait Till so'rne subsequent date ; World without men,-ah me!'' -Brunoni m~. R.i~chmond Straight-Cut No .. I Cigarettes. C . IGARETTE smokers who are willing to pay a little tnore than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to aU others. The Richm;ond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virg .. inia. This is tht:' Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RIL-:IMOND, VA. __ _,.,. _____ ._ __ ,___ Prof. Loisette's E O;RY DISCOVERY AND TRAINING METHOD In spite of adulternted imitatwns which miss the t. ·heory, and practical results of the Original, in spite of the grossest misrepresentations by envious would-be competitors, and in spite of ''base attempts to rob\ him of tlie fruit of his labors;{all of which demonstrate the undoubted. suoeriorit/ and po~ularity of his teaching), Prof. Loisettefs Art o Never E m·getting is recognizea to-day in both HemisQheres as marking an Epoch in Memory Culture. His Prospectus (sent post free) gives opinions of people in all parts of the globe who have act. ually studied liis System by corres:Qondence, showing that his System is used onlv while being studied, not aj'te'rwardsj that anv book can be lem·ned in a .\'inole t-eadin(l, Tmnd-tortmde?'ino C'U'red, &:c. For Prospectus,. Terms and (restimonials add1•ess Prof. A. IAOISE'lu.rE, 237 FifthA.venue,N.Y PROCTOR'S THEATRE, At.llANY, N. ¥. $nly r'ir9lt~$la~~ 4 Uriotian~. Prz'ces, $I, 7 sc., soc., and 35c. The only Theatre in Albany Playing the Best Attractions.

I I I . ! i . I ' I i i I I j 1 J i l . i i ! I l I I I I I ADVERTISEMENTS. E LEG~NT_,AN~ U?_EFl}:L ~~ODS. Our assortment includes a full line of Elegant Lamps, China, Fancy Glassware and Novelties in. great · variety. Many other attractions too numerous to mention-COME. Y. M. C. A. Building, SCHENECTADY, N.Y .. Printi~g. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVITATIONS. VISITING CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPES. Engraving. Brandow Printing Company, I 5 North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. WOOD BR_OS., JOHN L. BURGESS, ·. 255 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . . Manufacturer of SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. ~Goods :rece5. ved fo:r \l:'roy La.\'.::.nd.:ry _ DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~===DE~N TIST,=====~ OF.li'ICE HOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P . .M. 156 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. A.M. POWERS, No. 429 State St., SCHENECTADY,N.Y z IMMER & KINGMAN, Jl:iver!J, $ale an'lr \!trcryange $tables, I30, I32 and IJ4 CENTRE STREET. $ingle and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Telephone Connection. SOJ_JID GOLD JEWELRY FRATERNITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No .. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stairs, ALBANY, N. Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~bavin9 and Hair f:?ressin9 ~ arlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (UP STAIRS.) ARNOLD'S BILLIARD :PARLORS. Finest in the City. 8 & IO s. PEARL STREET, Ojp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. s • E. MILLER, }R., MEN'S OUTFITTER, ' . Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves, &c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirt~, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods . FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY.

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-·CLASS . ·. CIGARETTES. SPECIAL FAVOURS. Club, Opera an·d Prince of Wales for Gentle1nen, ,and Bou- doir size for Ladies, SWEET CA.PORAL, NEW YORK STANDARD, THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD. FINE CONFECTIONS~ BON BONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbo-;zieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, Manager. EDWARD s. BRIGNALL, BOOTS a1~d SHOE,S, UNION HALL STORE. ~The nzost cotnplete line and latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, UR. NE' w F:R' :E·E _,.Solid · . Watch · . · ·• 5100.00 . .Hest$85 ~lw:•.t•P.h in the world. Perfect nml:lKelJPer. Warranted heavy, ·, GOLD hun tin~ cases. ladies' and gents sizes, works and cas e s of value. ONE PERSON in locality can secure one together with our large lineofHouseheld ~aJm.pJtes. These samples, as well as the . , are :f'a~ee. All the work you heed do is to show what we send yon .to those who call-your fiiicnds and neighbors and those about you-that always results invaluable trade for us, which holds for years wh~n once started, and t.1us we are repaid ... We pay all ·e:xpress, fre1ght, etc. After you know all,. if you would Iilte to go to work for us. you can eam from $~0 to $60 per week and upwards. Ad~ress, Stinson.& Co., Box 81~, :Portland, Ma1ne. pHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES of all kinds For Professionals a~nd Amateurs. FULL LINES OF LEADING MAKES OF C .. ameras, Dry Plates and Card Stock, AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRICES. DAR'K ROOM FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS. J. N. McDONNALD, Opposite Delavan House. 582 Broadway, ALBANY, N. Y. FALL AND WINTER .. CLOTHING. COLLEGE BOYS' HEADQUARTERS FOR FINE CUSTOM AND READY-MADE AT THE LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. Fifth Avenue Cutter, Designs the very Latest. JAMES H. CROSS & CO., Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. TEACHERS WANTED ' I Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for Music, also Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application form and circulars of in formation to NATIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUA'EA U, 1\fention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTOK ST. CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. 31 and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot Calls a Specialty. Telephone Connection.

l J 1 . i I I I I 1 j I !· . I 1 I I j i i I I 'l l ! I I r i •! i i ' j• ' . I . ! l ! I 1 I I I . I .. I I ! • i I l I A.DVER!TISEMENTS. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTRE STREET. The undersigned has had eleven years' experience in the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tio:n of this Laundry is second to none. ALL WORK GUARANTEED. Equal in every respect to Troy Work. Give us a trial. · EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. A.BROWN & SON, ESTABLISHED 1829 .. UPHOLSTERERS· AND fURNITURE DEALERS, · 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CLARKE, CATERER -TO- WEDDINGS, BANQUETS AND PARTIES, 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. s • SCHERMERHORN & CO., · BAKERS AND CONFECTIONERS, 431 State Street. The finest Fancy Cake, Ice Cream, Confectionery and everytldng for Society SupperJ on hand and to order at short notice. VIENNA BAKERY. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. · Union Hall Bl0ck SCHENECTADY· WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. Otiginat Designs wizen Desired. CHAS. N. YATES, I.J6 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Jlnrnitnre *- lfartl'ooms, Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertainin 1 g to furnishing students' rooms. ~GOODS DELIVERED FREE. HOLTZMANN, Nos· .. 2oi and 203 STATE STREET, . SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Peifect Fit and Good Work G~taranteed.. -:- -:- BELLER'S 1Sil[iar'C~~ ~arlors. EIGHT COLLENDER TABLES-FIRST- CLASS BAR ATTACHED. C. A. ·G. BELLER, PROP. Cor. State and Center Sts., Schenectady, N. Y. HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 260 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. wILSON DAVIS; MERtHANT TAILOR, . 237 STATE STNEET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y

ADVER'TISEMENTS. EsTABLISHED IR54· J V. VROOMAN & SON, e --DEaLERS IN·- H~rclvc.re, Sloves, linw~re, PLUMBING, STEAM AND HoT AIR FuRNACES. All Plumbing, Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended t() .. I38_ and I 40 State St., SCHENECTADY. WE ALWAYS SELL Coal49. Wood, And Best Patent .Flour AT LOWEST MARKET PRICE. VAN SLYCK & GARNSEY, 17 and 19 South Centre St. ETCHINGS, ENGRAVINGS, ll~l'~ MA l'(RJAL~. W . T. HANSON & CO., • 335 STATE STREET. '!Dcugg.tats an() tlpotbecartes. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOIJ,E'l' ARTICLES.- -DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. LEVI CASE & co., t01pper, jrau and ihmt !ram WorkJ, STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIALTY. L.A. YOUNG, •. E. c. HARTLEY, PIANOS, 0RCANS, .. DEALER IN AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLJ!. Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. tionery, &c. ARCADE, BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. : Fine Butter a Specialty. 6oi and 6o3 Union Street. KEELER'S ~-11botel anb 1Restaurant, 1-- 26 and 28 M aide1~ Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. THE FINEST • -·:·BAR IN SCHENECTADY. • • CHARLES H. MYERS. Cor. Centre and Liberty Sts. KING, THE TAILOR WIENCKE'S --AND-- MEN' S~ 0 U lF ITT E R, ·· Germania Restaurant, No. 303 STATE STREET, SCHENECTA.D Y, N. Y. ' 322 STATE STREET.

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ... ··':·' Sprague :E~Iectric :Motors, Edison Underground ·conductors . INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -·AND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM LAUNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHER¥. 'I'HOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ifl~~~ ::~~.t.frl~t-fREE escopes I n · the -w-.,rld, Our facilities are unequaled, and to introduce our superior goods we will sep.dFitEE . to ONE PEHSON m eac:b .;cality, as above ()nly those ·who write to us at once can make sure of the chunce All you have to do in return is t~ show our goods to those who call-your neighbors and those·around you 'Che be- grnning- of this adve1•tisement shows the.small end of the tele- 8cope. The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to about the fiftieth part of its bulk. It is a gt·and, double size tele- scope, as large as is easy to C'arry We will nlso show you how ~·ou can make from $3 to $10 a day at least~ from the start,with- out experience Better write at once. 'Ve pay all express charges. Address, H. HALLETT & CQ,, llox §!!!0, PORTLAND, MAINE. A PREMIERE· SUPERB QUALITE CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos ')revents that dryness of the throat usually produced by smoking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving his incotnparable Cigarette a trial. It is simply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1pe. WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., Rochester, N. Y. I7 First Prize Medals.

CHAS. G •. ELLIS, Pres't. WALTER McQUEEN, Vice-Pres't. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, SCHBNE,CTADY, N. Y., Locomot£ves of Standard Deszin for all Classes of Se1 v£ce, or jronz Deszins !btrnzshed by Ra£lroad Companies. 1843. ''* ANNUAL. ;CAPAC·ITY 300. 1889 .. ,. -- ASK RETAILERS Co., THE \RELIABLE~(' LOU~~CINC COAT. NEWBURGH, N. Y. OTHER ~ STYLES. JOSEPH GILLOT~S STEEl PENS. IHE FAVOBnE NUMIIERS, 303,404,604,351,170, . _ _ AND.RI$ OTHER STYLES SOLD 8Y ALL DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE. WORLD.~~~

I I . I I I . I I ' I I . I ··}Vew :Building I \ ASK FOR TB:E FAMOUS ALBANY, N. r. FI.NfST STURE I:N THE UNITED STATES. Largest and Finest Stock of Ready-Made Clothing, Hats and Caps, Trunks, Bags and Furnishing Goods in Albany. ~We have a beautifnlCustom Department· attached, in which will be found a Iar~e stock of both Foreign and Domestic Woolens. Best talent and workma.nship are employed. When in A-lbany you are invited to inspect the building .a11d make the store your resting place. T HE stock used in the manufacture ·Of this Ciga].\ is the most expensive of any five-cent Cigar ever put on the. market. It is really a ten-cent Cigar for five cents. Competition drove lU3 to it. 3 ANCHOR BRAND E COLLARS, CUFFS and SHIRTS, .... :. They will Outwear two Ordinary Collars. -:- . All Fashionable Styles. For Sale EverYWhere We have a complete assortment of these celebrated Banjos a.nd Guitars a.lways in stock and sell them very lows to clubs. 0 _o .. STRAIGHT If/ CLUETT & SONS. Ill 0 . ... 0:.~1 0 11149 State ist., Albany. Jl/ 0 -- . . . Q R:SMEMBER, The Price is 5 cents.. Not I 0 cen.ts. .... -,

