8 ' Y, Tr1n· G~NG~RDIBNSIS. I t '' I ' ' ' ' ; I ' ,.. ,, .: VoL. XIX. UNION·· COLLEGE, .DECEMBER. i.t;. 1895. No .. 6.· · ha~ a grand .p~irpose, and 'r atn glad I have th~ opportunit;y to see how they do these things i{1 . . . . . Deutschla:nd.'' In Gennan U~iversities the frateTn:aJ _spirit' is At .the. appointe.d 'titne the next evening n1.y still mon~ dominant tha·n in Am·erican ·co~l!~ge·~~ frab~rp.ity_ fi:i~nd·. ~-a_iled.for me, and I wept with The inward feeli~g of 'syrnpathy and ~b'rot_h~'rly him to his. :soci'ety. i·~onlS. On the way he told love tnay be no stronger, but the OUtWal~_d tnan.i- tne thatm·ost of. the· tnembet:S of the fraternit)r festations of relationship . is .certainly 111o~·e . were the·o~~gi~~i students and the i·emainder n1arked. I-T ere in· Leipzig each fraternity' has its • were philogical studepts. I retnarked. ( vvas own pec1tliar cap, and ·on dress occasions . a not a theolog.icftl sttident, nor even a philogicai whole unifonn, which plainly designates. its one-~ then he :looked' surprised, and observ,ed men1bers. Besides these, a broad band, usually ·· that he q~d.fdlt. stit~~ :i was a theological student in three colored stripes, is worn around the body py. thk··:~bx.pressjdrt ·of \t~y·· face. H.o~ever, ·he over the left shoulder under the coat. Th~ ~l1crn~t·dto:p tne :l?et~b~e l'~as studying ~oology; colors worn are so bright that a me1nber 9f a · hut td61~~.-ffl·t:· al9t1g' thinki~g perhaps special con·- fraternity tnay be distinguished as far as one cessions 1~~glitb~ _made in i11y case. I th~ught one can &ee hitn. I began to p~r~eive the Christian spii·it. We As soon as I found out a little :about the Gennan fraternities I was anxious to know more. I bad not long to wait. The second evening after tny matriculation a couple of Ger• man students called upon tne and very cordially invited n1e to cotne around to their fraternitv soon reached the fr~ternity roon1s, arid as we paused to. hly aside OUl: hats and coats, I con~ gratulated inyself again upon having the oppor- . tunity of ·seeing how the Gennan theological • students inculcate the love 'of -fello'\\'men, the love of wi&dom and the love of God. rootns, and asked me to state an evening when . · My friend opened the door and in we walked: I would corne, saying they would call for me · 1'he fraternity was in session·, but everything just when I said. I thanked them, and told 1 stopped as we ·entered, and all the : tnernbers J • • ' ~ • tbetn I ·would go the next evening. They then . rose to tl1e_i:r· feet ·to greet us. I was fo-rn1ally presented tne with a copy of their constitution • introduc~d;· and given a seat of honor at the and took their leave. By carefully readi.ng the , table-· I sa) the table, fo1; the whole fraternity constitution I found the society was a Christian were seated about a great table shaped like the fraternity ( ez'ne .Chrz'stlz'che Verblndung), and ~ letter T. · On. this table were tlie· hyn1n books had three special aims. The first and m.ost • of the society, along with great glass bowls· of ilnportan:t ·was the· promotion of the Christian • beer,. ·each holding :about a quart. Only rnem:. religion and true morality among its tnem bers. ·· bers, howev~er, had bowls; visitors were sup- The second aim was to increase the interest of •· plied w·ith schooners. The walls of the roon1 its membel's in s_~ientific research by conference . we1·e decorated by several banners, and between and mutual aid. The third object of the society . these were pictures of noted Germans. A large was to supply the social needs of .the student in. lithograph of Bisn1arck was espe.cially promi- the best way possible. A tninor object of the nent. The· stnaller pictures were not very dis- society was the promotion of the true Gennan tinct, as the whole cotnpany were stnoking as spirit and the love of the Fatherland. I ·said to only students can smoke. I had barely finished n1yself as I read these objects, \·That society my survey of the roon1 when the president

4 THE OONCORDIENSIS. announced that a hymn would be sung. What · an inspiring hymn it was! I have never heard a song sung with more fervour except at a colored camp-meeting. When the hy1nn ·was ended the society rose to its feet, the glasses clicked, ~nd . the first toast was drunk to the prornotion of Christianity. Those of us who were fortunate enough to be present ftt our late Centennial Festival, will vividly rernember that the class of '82 was plain~y in evidence from the start to the finish, by its streamer on the outward walls of the A Doctor of Divinity, who was interested in library coUonade, announcing its headquarters .. America and wished to be especially friendly, . And that back of all this activity they really brought his bowl of beer over and visited with meant business, will be practically proved by n1e. I ask~d how often the fraternity held such the following letter fron1 one of its :111 ost active meetings as these, and was told only three thnes and loyal rnem bers well and favorably known per week. My friend added that the boys did to us all. The recipient of these lines acknowl- not usually stay 1nuch after tnidnight. While edges then1 with great pleasure, and hope that we were visiting ] noticed the waiters were ·. they tnay induce other classes to arise and do fiHing up the bowls again. Soon we had more . likewise: singing, and i1n1nediately after that was over the CLEVELAND, OHIO, Nov. 30, 1:895. second round of beer was drunk. This :time it . DE.AR PRGLF];ssoR WELLS: was in the interest of science. · ga1n we visited A · At last Conunence1nent the class of '82 decided to establish an alcove in the college library, giving while the bowls were being filled, and then we at least $tOO a year therefore. I suggested the were favored with a short speech, followed by propriety of making it a modern language alcove, each one drinking his quart of beer to the health ·· and we d·ecided so to do-making it solely Gertnan. of the speaker. Shortly afterwards another Now we are ready to Iuake the purchases. I shall round was drunk for social needs, and then be glad to receive suggestions and recornwencla- another to the love of the Fatherland. tion.s frorn you as to the line of books. I desired At this stage a great boot-leg was brought to . the president, and a round was drunk in his honor. More speeches and singing followed, . and several tnore toasts were drank. The mid- night hour was approaching, and as there was nothing more to see except more beer and cigars, I took my leave a long with a few men1- bers of the society who were cornpelled to leave early. One n1e1nber wanted to know if we had such Christian Fraternities in America a1nong theological students. \Not exactly,\ I replied; '' we do things in a little different way over there.\ HoRATIO M. PoLLOCK, '95. B '~emieal ora~edy. Our Willie passed away to-day, His face we'll see no more ; What Willie took for h 2 o, Proved h 2 so\' .-Ex. to sp.eak to you about it in the sunnner but didn't fetl sure that the scheme ·would carry. Hoping you will receive the gift as an expression of our esteenL for you. \T ery sincet·ely yours, ARTHUR S. 'iVRIGH'J'. eoutlf ~oll~9~ Bell. Sullenly ring, oh iron- tongued bell- Dang long, thy tuneless, soletnn knell Of fading dreams- OI· waking thought, Of fond arnbition, Come to naught. Dolefully pealing, thy sobbing sounds, Like some charrned Titan mourning;-· vVhHe in each harsh discordant tone There shrieks sonorous warning,- \All life is short,- All men 1nust die;- 'Though loud the laugh, The 1noments fly,-. And nearer, nearer, draws the torn b.\ An echo of eternal doom. P. P. SHEEHAN, '98.

to the by . hat do ve, n't THE OONOORDIENSIS. 5 Tt)e For~iQI] ceorre5pOr]d91)t. (.A STORY) ~Charles Ludlow sat in the busy office of the · city editor of the New York Herald. It was Christmas Eve and everybody was astir, for they were anxious to go to press that night earlier than usual. Young· Ludlow had only · been out of college a few .years, but he had shown such ability while. editing his college • journal that he had imtnediately on graduating ·stepped into a good position. He rose very fast, and for the past two yealis he had been on the foreign staff of the Herald. He was hon1e now 011 a short vacation, and that night he was sitting with the city editor, for they had become fast friends after a very short acquaintance. He was smoking a cigar, and during the intervals that the city editor had between looking over reports, he would drop in a few retnarks on different subjects. The talk dr,ifted frotn one thing to a11other, and finally the subject catne up of the young actress who had tried to comtnit suicide that afternoon. Ludlow listened intently as the city editor told how she had been found unconscious at her lodgings with a revolver still in her hand. Her ain1 had not been true, and the bullet had onlv passed beneath the skin on her forehead. She soon regained consciousness, but not a word would she disclose as to why see did the act. She only said that if she got a chance she would make a better job of it next time. It was learned that she belonged to the Empire Theatre cotn- pany, where she took a tninor part. The account ended, Ludlow sat a few tninutes and then spoke up, '' And she is now in the Tombs?\ \Yes they took her there, for she threatened to repeat the act, and they thought best to do so, as her wound amounted to little.\ 4 ' There tnust be sotnething at the b'otton1 of this,\ said Ludlow. '' That's so, and I have just been thinking why it wouldn't be a good scheme for you to go up there and interview this wotnan. You are always ready for some adventure, I know.\ ''I will go if you want me to, for it is early yet, and I can write up my story for to-tnorrow's paper.\ 4 ' You tnay., but you had better take this card. Don't be too long about it. We tnay be able to pick up a pretty little Christtnas ron1ance.\ Ludlow put on his coat and hat and hurried out into the street. It was a bad night. Not a star was to be seen, and the cold wind ble\\r the icy raindrops· into his face. Hailing a cab he to,ld·the.driver to take him to the Tombs. He was soon in the sheTiff's office. It was beyond the hour for vis.itors, but the card that the city editor had given hi,m passed him through, and he was in the ceH with the one whom he had come to interview in a few n1inutes. H·e found the woman an exact likeness to what he had- expected, for all humanity when in despair looks the same. A bandage covered her forehead, which was high, and her longjet black hair fell loosely to h~er waist. Her face was shrunken, and a paleness akin to death brought out in bold relief her black eyes-eyes that pierced one through and through, hut filled with tears now, and the tears were those of one in deep remorse. Ludlow took a seat and told her why he was . thet~e, explaining everything. She said she had nothing to say concerning her action or herself. Adding she said,: \I did the act, and I failed. I will try again, a:nd I shall succeed.\ Ludlow saw that he was dealing with one hopeless and despondent, but his varied newspaper experience had taught hhn n1any things concerning tactics by which people are tnade to talk. '' Is that all you will tell me, Miss Chester? \ \ It is,\ she said. \Well I will be going then, for I do not wish to disturb yo-u on this Christmas Eve. I have a sister at ho,me, and I tnust hasten to see her. She is young and pretty, and she loves me as the daisy loves the light that breaks upon it every tnorning, opening its petals. When I came away to-night she told rne to come back soon. Good night, and thanks for your kind- ness in allowing me to see you. But I tnust add, if there is anything I can do for you I will be pleased to do it. · ''You are in trouble, Miss Chester, and you need friends. We newspaper people a1·e not so hard as the public think we are. We have an uphill fight. People never take into account the good we do the world, but they are always ready to try to cast us down when opportunity allows it. To-night, Miss Chester, when I entered this room, the thought flashed into my n1ind that I did not know that sotnetime my own dear little sister of whorn I have just told you tnight, by some cruel blow of fate, occupy this very same ceU. If it should ever happen, there would be a good reason for it, I know, and it is that fact which makes rne believe that you think you have a just cause for your act. With the satne feeling that I would bless the rnan that would offer her aid in such a case, I now offer you mihe. If I can be of any service to yon, I am at your disposal.\ Tears filled Miss Chester's eyes, and she

, I I THE O·ONOORDIENSIS:: covered her face with her h.anJs. After a few My rnother begged me on her knee~ to give hitn mo1nents she looked up, and her eyes caught up, for she saw the end that would follow, but those of Ludlow's. . I could only think of hitn as the best 1nan on '' These are the first :kind words I have had · earth. spoken to rne in tnany weeks, so don't go and . ·\Finally the clin1ax came. My fa.tnily, I leave 1ne. Stay and I will tell you all-· if you knew, would never consent to rny marriage to will prorni:se that you will not put what I have •• hirn., so I eloped, and since that fatal night I to say in the raper. I hate newspapers, fot , have never seen nor heard from one of then1. they always try to show one up in her worst · We went west, and he im1nediately began his light instead of revealing the good things ~in ' old profession-playing the races. I was happy one's character.\ for a while. He treated :me so sweetlv and \' \I will prornise,\ said Ludlow, \and you : tenderly. \~hen I was with him night and day need have no fear.\ seemed the same, for I saw nothing but hit11, \You know what has happened to-day. It . and he was :perfect in my sight. But all .good is only the end which many girls who start the things must lhave an ~nd, and so did this. Six satne as I did are nearing every hour of their · months passed, and I awoke to the dreadful lives. My act was one of a sane won1an, but a ... reality that be thought nothing of me except foT woman fiUed with despair and retnorse. I whatl had, and we began to drift apart. wanted to die, and I want to yet; but to you, '''Finally, two months ago, while we were who have he en so kind to 1ne, I can't help telling here in New York, he left m~e, but not before he my story. had taken wj:th hitn what I bad. Left alone in \Unlike rnany girls who turn out as I have, · a great city with no one to fall back on, I was I had one of the best mothers that ever lived. in despair. I was too proud to go home to my JVly hotne life was perfect, and I wanted for tnother, for the end had cotne just as she had nothing. Brought up i!n a college town, I was always pictured it to . 1ne. Then I thought of surrounded by an air of culture and learning. the stage, f()r my beauty was not all gone. I When I was still young I becan1e engaged to a 1nanaged to get an engagement in a n1inor part college student, and we loved each other as only at the En1ph~e and have held it ever since. young people can. Thne slipped by~ and vaca- ·~' I have beard of the man I threw a way fo1· tion came. We had to part, and it was a sad the villian but once since then, and that was a parting. I-Ie still kept up his devotion to tne; few years ag-o. He had then been sent to take a but I, a fickle young girl, soon forgot my vows position on t11e foreign staff of your own paper. to him. Oh, that I could see hiln again, but I could not '\That sutntner I met a man. He was a gam- bear the thought of it. He struggled with tne, bier, and I knew it, but I beca1ne infatuated with but his pleading was in vain. He loved rne him, and no girl was ever tnore unreasonable. with a love that no one eve1· had before, and to I thought of him every mo1nent in the day and think that I threw him off for a gambler. It dreatned of hitn every tnoJnent at night, and was tnean ; it was a deed worse than the one I he said he cared for 1ne. Well, we soon parted, attempted to-day.\ but I could not forget him. My cast-off lover ~~'The last words he ever spoke to 1ne were knew of it all, and in his passion he wrote me the same as you have said to-night, and that is things that he would never have done had he why I called you back. He said, 'I am going been hitnself. This widened still further the into life with. a renewed detennination to make breach between us. something .()f myself, and if you ever need a '' So the fall went by. The n1an, the gatnbler, friend do not forget to call on me.' He did with whotn I had beco1ne infatuated, drew me start out in life with that detennination, and nearer and nearer toward hitn. My mother and would now that I had la:ved him as he loved n~e. my friends pleaded with tne, but in vain. My '' To .. day l retnembered that it was just fou1· fan1ily finally told me that if I married hitn I years since H1at fatal night when I left my home., would be as dead to thetn~ and far better had it and I vowed never to see the light of another been. The 1nan seemed to have some charm, day. I have nobody but myself, and nobody some 1nagic power, by which he covered up all cares what becomes of rne. I have nevet· my thoughts of virtue and offutul·e happiness, and written a word home, so what is the use of showed me only things that tend to make one renew 1ng old troubles? I thought when they follow the paths of vice, and which end in should disco-ver 1ny dead body tny natne would destruc6on. I could not see hitn, but I got his go out as I am known to-day, as Amy Chester. letters. They, too, seetned to have that sarne Tlile wotld would read the name and pass 011, hypnotic power, and I was drawn closer to hin1. .and at n1y old home little would they think that

hitn but tnan on I to night I of then1. his happy and \' and day bhn, all .good . s· · ·lX dreadful foT were he alone in I was to my she had of I inor part fo1· was a to take a paper. not tne, tne and to bler. It one I were d that is . gotng to make need a He did ion, and n1e. just fou1· home, nobodv \ nevet· use of they would Chester. pass 011, that THE o·oNCORDIENSIS. it was Florence Terril that lay at the rnorgue. But even now fate seetns to be against tne, and THE. FOOT-.BA.LL SEASON OF 189·5. I ' t 1' '' here aru ye a 1ve. Ludlow had followed evety word as it can1e ' A Review of the Victories and Defeats of the fro.m her lips, and a-; she continued he drevv . 1:895 Foot-Ball Team. nearer so that not a sound could escape without • his catching it. He now turned his face in the • The story of this season's foot-hall tean1 i1s opposite direction. It was pale, and every · soon told. vVe have had our victories and w·e drop of his blood was froze.n in his v.eins. She · have had our defeats. Onr victories have not did not notice hin1, for she had dropped her been Hun 1 erotis, it is true, yet it cannot be said head at the end of her story. \' Florence Terril,;, he said, half aloud, and . that the fault lies entirely an1ong those who have then, without looking toward her, he arose, but . given so much of their tin1e and who hav~e had to grasp the side of the cell in order to worked so faithfully for the gilory of:Old Union. stand .A careful review of the events of the season just He gathered every bit of energy 1eft in · past may prove not only beneficial to future him, and said: ~~' l\liss Terri~, then, is your real nam.e. 1 thank you very tnuch for your . Union College foot-ball tean1s but to the entit:e story, but I must go. It shall not go to the college as well. paper, I protnise it.\ The season opened very auspiciously. Capt. '' But tell tne, do you know the young n1an Beckwith and 11anager Greenman had spared vvho joined the foreign staff two years ago? '' 110 pains to make this season a suc.cessful one. \Yes I do, Miss Terril. He is a great friend of 1 nine, and I will see that he sees you Manager Gteetnan, prornpted by the action of to-morrow.\ the student body last year, and endeavoring to '' No, don't, for God's sake ! \ carry out the prevailing sentitnent in college But the cry was too late. Ludlow .had : 1 nade in his shedulde of this season's ga1nes a gone, and as we went only a few mnttenngs I • . . . 1 f .c: . , • W ld b 1 d d tl d d tl . l\k . decided change ove1 t 1at o 10nner ) eats. e cou e 1ear . , an 1ey soun e sorne. 11ng 1 e , . . . . . . '' Florence Terril, Florence Terril.\-NON EST. i broke away fron1 those tnstltutlons wtth whon!l I we had for years been identified,. and fronil w hotn we had repeatedly won victories, and threw down the gauntlet to the colleges of New England. Did the college appi'eciate what this handful of men had undertaken, or does it appreciate what it has clone? We think not, for had it so done, it would not have been neces- sary for Capt. Beckwith to 11ave spent so .tnucb of his titne in trying to get out a \ scrub.\ And if they truly appreciated the efforts of these men~ why did they allo'\v thern to return fron1 theh· gatnes-tired, worn out, and often injured-yet unwelcomed by a single student? This tnay be a tneans of pron1oting the foot-ball interests (){ this college, but it is not the rnean s resorted tQ in other institutions. The eighth annual re-union and dinner of the Union College Alutnni Association, of New York, will be given at the Hotel Waldorf, on Thursday evening, Dec. r 2. For the con- venience of out .. of-town tnetnbers an early hour for the meeting has been selected, the titne of the business tneeting being at a quarter before six and the dinner at l?alf past six. Secretary BarneJ infonns us. that he expects to have about a hundred and twenty-five men1 bers present. Among the speakers will be Mayor WiUian1 L. Strong, U.S. Senator Joseph M. Carey, Atnasa J. Parl<er, President Raymond, ex-Senator vVarner Miller, Charles Etnory Stnith and Williarn II. McElroy. The officers of the association are : · President, Gen. Daniel Butterfield, '49 ; first vice-presi- . dent, George Alexander, '66; second vice-presi- dent, Silas B. Brownell, '52; secretary, Edgar S. Barney, '84 ; treasurer, Willia 1n C. Rober- son, '77. Early in Septen1ber everything looked bright for the season of '95· Mr. E. M. Church had been engaged as coach, and he deserves un- stinted praise for the excellent team which l1e produced under such disadvantageous circum- stances. He is the best coach Union ever had, or probably ever will have. The first gatne of the season resulted in a

8 THE OONOORDIENSIS. score of 26 to o in favor of Yale. Both the tean.1 and the coUege was well pleased with the result. It showed that we had good t~·aterial, and with . proper training n1igh:t hope f<n- ~xce1lent results. The second gam.e was with tl~e Laureate Boat . Club's tearn, and the score w a:s 8 to o in favor of Union. 'The game was played ·on the earn pus and fully appi·eciated by the st1;1dieJit body, The next ga1ne was with R. P. L., :and in two 15- • minute halves a score of 26 to o in favor of The next game was with West Point. The '' 'varsity\ practiced for this game without any '~ scrub \ against then1. The report of the gan1e sent out from West Point said that Union's playing was positively childish, but the score- r 6 to o-does not indicate the work of children. We are 1nuch obliged to West Point for the report ofthat garne. It will so strengthen the feeling of friend:shi p which has heretofore ex- isted between the two institutions. lJnion was the resu~it. The g-an1e with Syra- The :last gatne was with Wesleyan. The cuse was a '' walk-over.\ '''varsity \ was in good shape, and tnight have The team went to Princeton in a sotnewhat won--but vve won't say what we tnight have crippled condition, yet the res·ult was not one to · done-we will simply say what we did do. The be asha~ned of; 22 to o was t11e score, whi,ch . gan1e was practically won when Wesleyan was ten points less than the :towest estirnate · childishly left the field, because of the justified tnade by any rnan on the hiU, yet when the . ruling of the utnpire. Atnherst and Dartmouth, tea1n returned with one man hardly able to , for some unexplained reason, cancelled their walk and another with his an:JA~ :in .a sling, there ' games. We are sorry they did so, notwith- was not a sing1:e student at the depot to welcon1e . standing the fact that they would probably have them hotne. Our second gaoJe with Laureate •. beaten us, as , , ill luck \ seemed to follow us was not one to be proud of. Neither side scored. Then catne the Williams game. l'his was • continua] ly. This article has already assumed such propor- tions that only the briefest notice can be n1ade of the individual players. Mallery and Crichton played excellent gatnes. Both were sure tacklers. Mallery also deserves tnuch credit for his work at quarter. Capt. Beckwith and Palmer played their tackles well. Beckwith was the better in breaking through the line, though Palmer was more certain in his tackles. Blodgett and Taylor 1nade phenon1inal guards. Blodgett we think played one of the best guards that Union ever had, and had the great virtue of keeping his tnouth shut. Taylor was able to break through the line of any team we played against, and his tackles were ah11.rays well made. Terry played an excellent gatne at centre. He deserves the thanks of the college for his untiring efforts, not only for. this season but for the three years previous. Myers at right half was a wonder. We all know what a war horse he has been, and the recognized as the greatest eve~ t of the season. Every effort was tnade to get the teatn in the best of con.dition, but strange to say, not- withstanding the itnportance. of the gatne to the college, on two days between the date of that game and the gat1>le previous the ~''varsity\ ·practiced without any \'scrub'' against thetn. But the po\-verful Union Col1e~e spirit w.as not · dead. It was only sleeping, and when the beatning countenance of '' Fatlter \ Brown was seen on the catnpus, it awo~e with renewed energy. Yes, we had a good '' scrub \ after that, and a good '' 'varsity \ ~vas the result. We all know how that gan1e ended. The result was one that WE' do not ca1~e to think about. Though the official score shGws Williatns to have been the victor, yet evety person who witnessed that ga1ne l\nows that Union played the foot-ball of the day. Union's defeat vvas the result of the combination of bad luck, fog and the referee. A second hall was found on the field during ~he gan1e. If any Union n1an was responsible for that ball being tl1ere his action deserves the severest conden1nation, even though the ball was found in H1e possession of a Wil- . . universal question throughout the college is : 'lia n1s player. What will we do without hi1n next year? Lyon, Peters and Hayes all did excellent work at left half. Lyon had the ill luck to be injur.ed several times, but he always played a strong game and

he ny he he he ve ve . h- s. . lS 11 . . ft THE o:ONCORDIENSIS. never gave up. We desire to give special • mention to Thotnas, Jones, Stnith, Hilton, ·Gordon and Son1mer for their efficient work as . The past tnonth has been signalized by one substitutes. of the most lamentable incidents in the history \' Poo '' Svveetland played full-back He was . of the college.· For many weeks, ever since . a stron~ kicket and a good rnan in breaking the college had opened in fact, the police force of line. On the \ catch \ he sotnetiilles misjudged Schenectady had been dumfounded by~ a series the ball, but this failing was l110re than com- of bold and skillful burglaries in dif-ferent parts pensated for by his neveT-failing enthusias.tn and oi the city. During this satne period the coUege untiring efforts. He wil!l n1ake a good captain · authorities became painfully aware that sotne next year. one on· the hill was guilty of taking college It is not the purpose of this article to sitnply • property. Things did not co1ne to an issue, review the events of this season ; but it is rather ' however, until one of the students, who had an atte.tnpt to point out defects which tnust be . been robbed of a considerable an1ount of money, retnedied in the future, and to give paise only . discovered a palpable clue, not ·only to the thefts where praise has been tnerited. First and fore- at the college, bttt also to the robberies done in most atnong these defects has been with the • ti 1 e city. President Rayn1ond and Dean Ripton student body itself. The foot-ball has not been were at once notified, and a partial search of the supported by thetn with anything like the proper roo 1 n of C. G. Hurnphrey and C. C. ~iller was ·enthusiasn1. What does enthusiasrn an1ount to made with such results that the police were at if it is not coupled with earnest and self-sacri- once notified. The two n1en, the fonner a ficing efforts? To play winning gatnes of foot- Sophomore, the latter .a Freshtnan, were at ball the '''varsity\ tnust be opposed regularly onc·e apprehended and taken to the police by a ~trong and enthusiastic \ scrub,\ and not station. Subsequently, two wagon-loads of stolen by thirty men one day and three or four the property were taken fron1 their t·oom, 65, on next. the first floor of midale-section, North College. The next fault was v.rith the \'varsity\ itself. The unfortunate young n1en have had their Every player seetned to think at times that he preliminary headng, and Miller is still in the was the captain. Another fault, and one which county jail awaiting the action of the next grand has brought 1nuch discredit upon the institution, jury. Hutnphrey was bailed out a few days lies not with the foot-ball tea 1 n. or with the ago by his uncle, the bail being fixed at $z,ooo. student body, but with newspaper correspon- dents. Where have otn· newspaper correspon- dents been on various occasions, and why did they not see that their reports were the first ones sent to the New York pt~ess? 51;~ psi U. DaQee. The Psi U's gave another of their infonnal dances at their house on Friday evening, Nov. 22. Gioscia, of Albany, furnished the music. Among those present were: Mt·s. Truax, Mrs. Price, Mrs. Mosher, Miss Walker, Miss Hunter, Mi~.s Truax, Miss Kosboth, Miss El11s, Miss Barker, Miss Madge CEunpbell, Miss Rachel Yates, Miss Susan Yates, Miss \IV atkins, Miss Reattie, Miss Anna Clute, Misf1 Dnrlir:g- and l\1iss Ostro1n. Dr. Rayfl)oi]d at Buffalo. The New York Evang-elist, under date of Nov. 14, has the following note frotn Buffalo concerning President Ra.y1nond: \ The event of the month in one sense has been the reception of the University Club to the Rev. Dr. A. V. V. Raymond, of Union College. It was delightful to note that the doctor, since his transfer frotn parish cares at Albany to scholarly life at Schenectady, has seemed to grow tnore portly and full of grace than ever. He is, in appearance, as in other things, the ideal college president. All Union 111en speak in the highest term.s of the Rayn1ond regime. No tnan in the pulpit has been. more popular certainly with the undergraduate circles at Williatns, Harnilton1 Union and Princeton, as . vvell as in tl1e <;lpp§ of v.niversi1y n1en all around I the countt·?'·\

10 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ·==========;=========::-=~=,=--=----:~:--=--====== THE CON:CORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED ON ALTERN.\TE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR By THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOAl?.D Oil EDITORS: MAJOR ALLEN T\VIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. WAL'l'ER L HUGGINS, '96, Business Manager. WILLIAM H. HALL, '96, Literary Editor. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, AsHt. Business Manager. WILLIAM F. CHERRY, '9'7, ) F. PACKARD PALMER, '9'7, t Assistant Editors. HUBBELL RoBINSON, '97, ) CARL HAMMER, '98, I WILIJIAM D. REED, '98, I P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, '-r Reportorial Staff .. H. E. FAIRWEATHER, '98, F. Boss, '98, j l..1 Me CLINTOCK, '9'7, ~- :Medical College. R. VAN BEUSEKOM, f E. S. BROWN, Law School. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2 00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 15 CENTS. Address all cornn1unications to rfHE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to 111ake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins. Business Manager. ==============~--========================= Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. \VE WISH you all a u1erry Christinas. Do WE c:nue up to your expectations or not? WHAT HAS beconw of the connnittee on getting lights for th8 sections'? The lights ought to be provided. ONLY ONE u1ore week before i he final exaiuina- tions The class-roont work was never better than it has been during the past tern1. THE NEXT Junior hop will be held Friday even- ing. If it be as good as the last one, no fault can possibly be found. There should be a large at- tendance. ----------- WE HAD one of the best foot-ball tea1us that ever represented Union, and Coach Church is the n1an who deserves great credit for it. He worked hard and faithfully, and always showed a great interest in the team, both individually and collec- tively. But Captain Beckwith also deserves the sa,nle cr~Q.it ~11-d 4e nla;de. [l, very popular captain. 'THE THANKSGIVillNG recess is only a san1rple of what Union does to n1ake it enjoy~~le and :pleasant for her students. Th:e recess l~sted five , and one-half days, and it gave eve1-y oae .::tmple .. H1ne to spend a few days at houte.. In sotue col- ,, ~eges the recess is only for one day, and n() :Student who Hves far away can go bon1:e to his Thanks- giving dinner, but has to eat what he ca.u get at his boarding house. U uion recognizes tbe:Lt her students need and 8'hould have this time to spend .at 110111e, and they g-et it. No DOUB'l' a few read the He,re an·d: There aTticle in our last issue regal'ding the foot-ball · ~reporter of the Albany ATg~ts. Judging fNJlll the , rreport of the Wesleyan gan1e it n1ust havce; struck hon1e, for in that a~count he not only use.ct every- tbing he could possibly find .against U nd()n, but lie also in vented a great 1na:ny things. The ~report ~s too disgusting in itself for us to use any • ·quotations. But, however, it does give 1Jnion a chance to b1Jing out certain points that she n1ay rightly object to and be indignant at. For the past col- 1ege year. in the A1'{tzts we have not noted a word of co1nn1endation for anything tbat Uni{)n has done, but we have noted that sometldng was broug·ht out to hu1·t her every tilue opp()rtunity a11owed it. \Vhat applies to the Argtts applies partly to one of OUI' own Schenectady papers, but in not so great a degree. The editors ma.y argue that they did not know what was being put in about the col1ege, but it was their business to know. In regard to the city paper, elippin·gs were }Htblished in regard to our recent unhappy experi- ence, which not only reflected upon tlle two parties concerned, but also upon every student in college. When a person or an institute do any- thing wrong let then1 be repTeinanded, but we cannot see the justice in casting ren1arks that I'eflect upon the innocent. In other WOi\'ds it is surely a case of l{icking a pe1·son when he is down. G·EORGE J. SWEE'l'I.~AND, '97, Gaptain-Elect of Union's foot-ball tean1, is a n1an whose I'ecord on the gridiron is one of rare excellence. H.e began . Ids work on the Dryden Acaden1y tearn wl}ere he played at guard, centre and also back of tlte line. Entering· Union, he played on the '· 'vausity\ in every gan1e of the season of '93, continuing his work as centre during· the next year until cOJn- pelled, by injuries received in the An1herst garrw, to withdraw for the rmnainder of the season. His best service to Old Union, however, has been ren- dered this fall, when he was transferred to the posi- tion of full-back. In every ga1ne except one Sweet-

lie of and l five mple ~ col- .dent tnks- ·etat , her pend 'here ;-ball 1 the ruck very- but l:port any ~e to rhtly col- word has was Lnity plies , but rgue 1t in ss to were peri- two o.t in any- i we that it is •wn. t of l on ~gan e he line. \ in · his ~Olll- :tiTle, His ren~ oosi- veet- THE o:oNCORD'JENSIS. 11 land has attended the tearn in this capacity dur- surely honorable in the extemne. A cornparison ing a ca1npaign of unprecedented play, .an~l has .· of tb•e reports of the gan1e will also perhaps be an never failed to he the equal of his opponent. ]n inde::x: to the spirit existing in the two colleges. the opening game against Yale,. rnore than once it The articles in The 1Villian~s l'l!eekly are full of was \Pop's\ brawny strength that rnet, and b1·a,g-gadocio and vindictivenesswbilethosein THE ~topped the Blue in their rushes; in the WHlian1s . CoN>CORDIENSIS are impartial in their references ganxe, too he was warn1ly applauded. His special and sedulously avoid any bitter remarks. work has been noticed in punting and bucldngthe , Union justly asks for an explanation frotn Wil- line. Withsuch a captain, the outlook for next year • lia1ns of ·the accusations that she has made, and is good. The unanimity of th~ election is pt'oof • we 1Lt•e glad to note that our Athletic Board haH that he has the support of the 'varsity, and :as for ·· dein~nded such an explanation. Williallns now new m·en to replace the '.96 players, they wiU not · has 1a ehance to show her true sportsinanlike be wanting when the time comes. Practice 1vill spirit. If she can prove her charges, let her do so; begin with spring. and every effort is being tnade · but if she cannot, she n:tust withdraw the1n. to have a season next fall that will equa 1 1 and Union has been used as .a foot-ball by Willian1s eclipse the best effort that has heretofore cltai'ac- long- enough. We can live without Williams' conl- terized the ever energetic foot-ball 1nanagen1ent pa11;y a:n.d we propose now, as we have always of Old Union. done, to hold to our rights. 1VILLIAMS college, on the evening of N ovenibeT · 15, held a n1eeting for the \Discussion or the Honor System,\ and The WiUiarns Weekl:r;, h1: an editorial upon the subject said: \And may such votes be cast as will show our sister colleges that \Villiams takes the lead in honor as well as in other points.\ And this beautiful editoriaJ, in which \culture and honoT are held as price,less virtues,\ is followed by another editorial that would make any co1lege possessing these '' peeuHa1· virtues\ blush with shame. This second ar.ticle is in regard to the Union-Willian1s foot-baH gatne. In it Union is charged with having '' n1ade another of her characteristic blunders.\ to have deli beeately \ srnuggled into play\ a second ball, and to have ' displayed a spirit of 'n1uckeris1n' to a Inost dis- graceful extent.\ We would appeal to Willian1s to show us where there is the least sign of \ culture and honur \ in the writing of such an article. Williarns -won the garne and was justly elated, Union. lost and was rightly disappointed; but what is the spidt of fairness that justifies the victor in boasting over the vanquished? It is true that by a n1ost un- fortunate accident a second ball was on the fiekl; but it can be proved tl1at it was entirely accidental and the action of tlie referee at the titne showed it · to be such. It was not put there, as WiUi an1s charges, in order for Union to use in .sco1ing- a touchdown. And upon what grounds does 'Villian1s a,ccuse Union of '' n1uckeris1n\ ? This is strong language and should be well supported before being used. At the end of the first half Union seen1ed to have the game won, and to rejoice over this was natural; but when, in the second half, the g::une was lost . and Union left the field without a n1urtnur ~t was · No'rl~ .-As we go to press, and at a tirne too late to allow con1n1ent, -we have received a copy of tile Weekly, in which atnong other things, is said: ''Various complications have adsen, and so nla-&y :incongruous ~tories have been circulated, that soiue alumni and friends of the college have . been led to believe that the greatest error or ruis- clenteanor is with ourselves and that Union was not justly open to the ' attacks upon her honor ' which have been called to our attention.'' And again: ''The lFeekly has couunitted two wrongs that Inust be atoned for. The first error was in our :tast editorial on thf' subject which said in reference to that part of the game which was pliared with two balls 'when they (referring to Union) n1ade a touchdown with a ball thrown fro1o the side-lines.' For thi~ statement we had no positive proof, and it was unfounded infortna- tion. which mislead us. Our second, and by far our 1nost egregious b1under, was in noticing at all any corn plaints we tnay have had againRt Union.'' THE u~HAPPY outcon1e of the ga1ne with ·w es- leya.,n is .surely to be reg'retted, and by none n1ore than Union n1en. Our relations with Wesleyan hav.e always been friendly, and everybody is u1ore tlilan sorry that this breach has been 1nade. But, as far as we can see, it was owing to no fault of Uni-on that this extremely unpleasant occurrence cante about. The Wesleyan teau1 left the field because the urnpire would not give thetn what he claitned was a play contrary to the rules. He acted according to his own judgment, which was no dou ht a fair one, and as the other tean1 refused to play, the gan:1e was given to Union by the refe1·ee by a score of 6 to 0. It u1ust be borne in rnil1d, too, that Wesleyan ehose the umpire her~

' ! ... 12 THE CONCORDIENSTS. self. .As for the Union tea1n, Captain Beckwith said h€ was willing to .g·ive his opponents the point, lJut the umpire would not allow this, for he knew his decision was: right, and he he;ld to it. As far as the result of the gan1e is conceTned Union l1ad rather lose by a big score than win in such a way, but it is conceded by all tha-t Union had the better of the battle when the Wesleyan team left the fild, and would have eventually won easily. The .lt1Jen'ing Jour1?.-al seems to voice the ·senti- ment o:f Albany when :it says in an editorial on the following Monday: '' Th€ withdrawal of the Wesleyan foot-ball team h1o1n the ga1ne ·with Union at Ridgefield on Saturday, ·was not only unsportsn:1anlike :and ungent]einanly, but unprecedented in the history of the game. It shows what a demoralizing effect has been. produced by Dunraven's policy-' If you don't le!t rne have rny own way, I won't play.'\ CoNCERNING the action of President Rayrnond and the Faculty in regard to the case of the two student burglars we can add nothing further than what TJ~e Outlook of a week ago says under the title of ''True Ethical Learning.\ It strikes the key note exactly in the discussion of the subject, which is as follows: \President Raymond, of Union College, struck a ringing note last week, not only in the way in which he dealt with a, very painful experience at Union College, but a}so in his declaration. of the principles which should govern a college faculty in dealh1g with such cases. Two students of that instit.utjon were suspected of having been impli- cated in certain burglaries which have recently been connnitted in Scllenectady. As soon as Dr. Ray1nond was inforrr1ed of the suspicion, he took another- n1e1nber of the faculty, notified the sus- pected ~tudents, and proceeded to make an in- vestigation of their l'OOin. Stolen property was soon discovered, whereupon Dr. Raymond stopped his investigation, sent for the police and placed the whole n1atter in the hands ·of the civil authori- ties, who completed the search anrl took the studentH into custody, a large arnount .of stolen property being discove1·ed in their possession. \The prornpt and direct action by Dr. Raymond was followed by a statement in the chapel of the college on the followh1g n1orning, in which he laid down the principles which should govern the action of college authoTities in dealing with these students, so clearly and comprehensively that they deserve the widest publicity. For purposes of legitin1ate college dicipline, Dr. Raymond de- clared, tfie authorities of the college need no help frOrrl without; but the 1non1ent the law is violated, and crin.1e cornruitted of any kind, the offender will be inval'iably turned over to the civil authori- ties. The allegiance of students to each other and to their college, he declared Inust be subordinated to: the allegiance of evei'Y student to the law, and no college can hope to educate its students to be law-abiding 1nembers and leaders of society unlPss it recognizes and Inaintains the u1ajesty of the law on all occasions . '' It is safe to say tha·t no body 0f American young men could fail to see the justice of such a position, or fail to appreciate the courage involved in taking such a position linder the circui:ilstances. This action of Dr. Rayn1ond is not without pre- cedent in the conduct of our colleges, but i,t is in very sharp contrast to -the policy of conceaJlinent which has sornetin1es been un wise'ly adopted. It has more than once been assumed by colLege authorities that the good naine and prosperity of the institution demanded suppression of intelli· ' gence and a general minirnizing of offences. \ It is safe to say that; the unfortunate occur- ance at Union College, instead of injtuing that institution, will, through the action of its presi· dent, c0m1nend it 1nore than anything which .has been done for its advancenJent in recent yea1·s, to the confidence and patronage of all those who understand the true quality of bold, frank and independent managen1ent. Questions of college discipline belong to college authorities, but ques- tions arising under the law of the land belong to the civil authorities; the distinction cannot be too sharply n1ade and the division of authority too rigidly respected; nor can there be better ethical teaching for students than the enfo~cement of the · principle that higher than allegiance of the student to the college is his allegiance to the comn1u nity which created the college, and whose highest interest the college serves. Rr. Ray1nond's course · teaches an ethical lesson which will not be lost on the country at large.\ THE VASSAR ATHLETES. The Vassar girls have had a field day-what next ? The papers fed for several days on the material whmh it afford€d thenJ, and a few had pictures of the supple maidens as they finished in the 100 yards dash or gracefully eleared the hurdles. And why did the papers make so much of it ? vV as it not because their gentlemen re- porters were not allowed to witness the sports and 'they wished for revenge? But on our part we can't see why our own sex,, in fact the sex, should be de barred from seeing these exciting and most interesting exhibitions of \the coming woman.\ The girls are allowed and always like to go when the college athlete competes in a set of games, and why should it not 'vorl\. the other 'vay? But there is a peculiar little ~pisode connected with the games of the Vassar girls that wiU interest Union athletes in particular. It seems that the winner of the hurdle race has received a coBgratu- latory letter froin a Union man and js anxious to find out just who the gentleman is. It may have been an athlete, a hurdler even., but we do not know. We have our suspicions, however, and we expect to follow up the clue. It seems that

less the can a ent It ege y- of esi· to to \ en ed at ','' ') .. !? THE OONOORDJENSIS. 13 the letter was received ·'in the spirit in w. ieh it . was sent,\ but we would ad vise the writer to keep quiet. Confidentially, we hElar the girls are very · 1 nuch in need of a \coach and they think he • would make thern a good one. All who intend to apply shoald do so at once. UNION vs. WESLEYAN. The 'G.ame Won by Default-When Wesleyan's Luck 1 Cbanged She Left the Field. OUR POET LAUREATE· Necessity cotnpels us to record the victory Finally Union, has a poet laureate, at least. which Union won fro1n Wesleyan Saturday, that is the title which Dr. Raymond used one · Nov. 23 , as one \won by default.\ But not- day in chapel when speaking of a member of withstanding the apparent lack .of nTerit which the Senior class. Whether the Doctor was in · earnest or whether he n1eant it for a joke we do · such a vic·tory is apt to imply, Union won and not know; but, as he generally tneans what he . won fairly. It is not Union's fault that says, we took it as the fonner. Strange. things • Wesleyan showed the white feather (unless ·will happen, and they are ·Constantly springing superior pilaying is called a fault), and as 1nuch up about us, but no one would ever think that glory is due her as though. the game had 'been our poet laureate was a 1nan who could write poetry. But he has done so, and we nlltst · finished according to established rulies. suffer the consequences. It is genel-ally adrnitted On that day the feeling that victory was going that to write poetry a man 1nust be in love, or · to crown U aion's efforts was alm.ost universal. thinks he is, but it is almost beyond the bounds This confidence was well tnerited, for tlu·ough- of reason for us to think that ou,r poet laureate · could ever be in love. Far froin it. There is out the week previous every man on the teatn not a fair 1naid in Dorp who could ever capture had exerted hitnself to the ubnost to rBake his his heal't, for he never had one. He has been playing faultless. Capt. Beckwith was untiring corralled tnany times by tnetnbers of the fair · in his efforts to infuse new life into the teatn sex-how could they help it ?-but they soon and overco.rne that depression which was the awoke to that sad reality· But there is one result of the continued run of ill-luck that thing our poet laureate can do-he can sing. Who will ever forget the energy and melody seerned to follow every game. that he puts into our chapel choir? In the '' make-up '' of the tea1n a few changes We could go on indefinitely telling what our were deetned advisable. Mallery was again poet laui~eate can do, but he does not desire to placed at quarter-back and Peters was induced have all his good qualities known. He has had many experiences, experiences both tatne and to go in at left half-back, though he had retired exciting, but he.has always been able to return for the season on account of injuries. Hilton to college with his vest, except once. Sotue took Mallery's place at left end, and filled it sharper on the Albany night boat is now in • ,most acceptably. possession of that article. \Ve congratulate our The ga·me was called at 2 : 30 o'clock, and poet laureate on his latest title, and rnay he prove to the world that he is worthy of it. But • both tea1ns were on the field protnptly on time. we sincerely hope that he will wait until after A strong wind was blowing lengthwise of the next June before he begins operations. field, and everybody recognized the advantages _, . Five-dollar hat IJay on a chair- Pretty girl Was seated there. Impressive oppression, Expressive digression, Then something else, too, And a swear word at that. P. P. S., '98. it would give the tean1 which was fortunate enough to l1ave it in its favor. Wesleyan won the toss, and thereby won the first half, as she imtnediately chose to defend the south goal which gave the wind in her favor. Union bad the kick off. Taylor, after twice trying, succeeded in sending the ball into Wesleyan's territory, but the wind was so strong that it did nut go far. It was caught by Wesleyan's left half,. but he was tackled by Pahner before ad- vancing ten yards. The Wesleyan backs then tried to finJ a hole in Ui1ion's line, hut 'With

14: THE OONOORDIENSIS. poor success. A double pass was tried for Union's rig~1t ·en.d. It worked well enough to give then) first down, but Crichton was not fooled, and there vvas no long run. This double passing was t11·ied t~epeatedly, and worked well . for short gains.. This was W esleyan'.s strong play, and she deserves n1uch credit in the way she handled the ball. Union was gradually forc~d back, until Mallery tnade a clash through Wesleyan's line and tackled beautifully wiith one hand. This gave Union the ball. vV es[·eyan was found to be weak at right tackie and right end. Myers plunged through the liue repeatedly, and Wesleyan was gradually force·d back until~ she won the ball by dropping on it when furnbled.. Wesleyan could not gain through the line, and resorted to punt- ing. Raytnond punted down the field to Union's ten-yard line. Union had the ball, and sent Peters around the dght end for 35 yards. The ball was called back, however, for holding in the line. Thus Wesleyan had the ball on Union's ten-yaxd line. Raytnond, by a double pass, carried H~e bali around the right end for a touchdown. A goal was :kicked. Score, 6 to o. The ball went to the centre of the field. A few minutes l\ter Ravmond kicked to Sweet- .~ land, who cattg-ht the ball. He atte1npted to return it, but was blocked by Wesleyan's ends, who followed up the ball, one of whom suc- ceeded in picking it up and running, scored a touchdown. Rayn1ond kicked a goal. Score, r 2 to o. On the kick- off Taylor sent the ball to Wes- leyan's 30-yard line. They tried the left end, but Beckwith tackLed behind the line. Hilton then blocked Ra,Ymond's punt, and Pahner fell on the ball. Tayfor missed the goal. Score, 12 to 4· In.the secoH.d half Union got the ball from Raytnond's kick-off. Myers was set to ha1u- : mering Wesleyan's left tackle, and smashed . through every time for 5 or ro yards. Peters was given the ball for a plunge through the · line, but fumb]~d the ball within five yards of a , touchdown. Hilton carried it over the line. No goal kicke:d. Score, 12 to 8. Wesleyan . got the ball on Taylor's kick-off. They tried . the ends, but were blocked. The centre was · tried, and the quarterback was thrown over the line by theW esleyan half-backs for an eight-yard gain. Mr. Morris, however, saw the play, and ruled it unfair. Wesleyan would not abide by his decision, and left the field. The disputed · point \vas one involved the right of the quarter- back to advance the ball. Wesleyan claimed it a double pass, but in reality the ball never left . the quarterback's hands. It was a ''fake'' pass, a motion and then a plunge through the line. The surnmary of the game was as follows: WESLEYAN. POSITIONS. UNION. Young (Arthur) ...... left end .............. Hilton Noyes. . . . . . . . ..... left tackle ............ Pahner Searles. . . . ......... left guard .......... Blodgett Sibley ................. centre ................ Terry TownsPnd .......... right guard ....... , ... Tay lo.c Williarns ........... right tackle .. Beckwith (Capt.) Young (Archer) .. , ... right end ........... Crichton Beeman ........... quarter-back .......... Mallery Raymond ............. left half .............. Peters Wilson (Capt.) ....... right half ............. Myers Berrien ............... full- back ......... :Sweetland Touchdowns -Raytnond, Young, Hilton and Myers. Goals frotn touchdowns-Berrien ( 2). Referee-Mr. Rochester, R. A. C. Umpire-. Mr. Morris, R. A. C. Lines1nen-Mr. Brown, Union, '95; Mr. Dibble, ·wesleyan, '97· A nu1n ber of Union College engineering students wrote the civil service exan1ination at Albany last Saturday. It is said that about 300 men are to be appointed for work on the canal, and there is therefore a rush for positions. The appointees will be announced in a few days. The Publz'c Ledger of Philacielphia contained the following ren1ark upon the work done in the Pensy-Cornell game on Thanksgiving day by Ed. Sweetland, \vho played last year on Union's line : ''Next to Beachan1 the best playing was done by Sweetland, who proved hhnself to be a cracker jack at tackle. Sweet- land was the only tnan on Cornell's line who could open up holes for his backs, and he fre- quently opened Wagonhurst. He also followed the ball well and tackled beautifully.\ Coach Church urges \ Pop\ to get his brother on Union's team for '96.

the by it left ers nd . ng at al, . Ill ,; on est et- ho on THE C,ONOORDIENSIS. 15 :Failing, '99, is. hotne sick. Fairweather, 'g8, is on the sick list. Lipes, ex-'98, was on the hill recently. Brown, '98, was with Wilson, '99, during the vacation at his hotne in Buffalo .. Tucker, '99, attended the Yale-Princeton gan1e at New York on Nov. 23. J. 'C. Merchant, '97, ~is slowly recovenng from his accident of last sun1mer .. ~99 expects to bave her picture taken soon. Craver, '96, is very ill a.t his hotne in Albany . lCeUog, '99, spent Thanksgiving in New\.,.. ork. :Sean1an, '99, is sick at his hotne in Johns- M. A. Twiford, g6, spent the Thanksgiving . vacation with friends in Sandy Hill. toWll. E. R. Payne, '95, was at the college last Friday. F,. Van der Bogert, '95, spent Thanksgiving. in town. A. E. Barnes, '95, was a caller in town on N()V. Z2. Perkins, '98, has been at Lytne, Mass., for a few days. Dr. McKenzie spent the rfhankgiving recess at Boston. Van W onner, '99, spent Thanksgiving at St. Johnsville . ·Cook, '99, has returned to college after a brief ,illness. \ Lyon, ex-'99, has secured a position in the ·Edison Works. A large number of conditions were passed up on the 7th inst. Mabon, '98, has recovered fron1 his illness and returned to college. Anthony, '96, spent Thanksgiving at his h(}n1e in Newburgh. G. S. _Haggart,. '99, is very sick at his hon1e in .. Gloversville, N.Y. Bowers, 'g8, has about recovered fro1n his attack of typhoid fever. D. V. Deuell, ex-'98, is in New York study- . ing at a d ratnatic school. Al)el Merchant, '97, h<i s returned to work Rfte1· a needed rest at home. The Freslnnen have finished solid geo1netry and have taken up algebra. Be~kwith, '95, spent his Thanksgiving vaca- tion with friends in the city. Sinr.lair, '98, vvas the guest of Hoxie, 'g8, at Catnbridge on Thanksgiving. H. W. DeGraff, ex-'98, spent a few days on the l1ill last week with fi·iends. Brown, '99, was detained last week at his hotne in Hudson, owing to sickness. West, 'g6, spent the Thanksgiving recess .at Watertown as a guest of 'Griffith, '98. The foot-ball tean1 was photographed in Albany the day of the Wesleyan gan1e. W. G. Brown, '95, who is now in the Law School, is a frequent visitor on the hill. . Derby,' 96, spent tlle Thanksgiving vacation at the hotne of Frey, '97, in Canajoharie. Huntly, '99, is sick at his hotne in Atnster- dam. Fitzjames, 'g8, is also sick in the same city. Sheehan, '98, was a guest, of Miles, '99, at his hon1e in Poughkeepsie during the Thanksgiving recess. Pershing, '97, has .a very severe attack of sickness, which wiH confine him to his roon1 for a long tin1e. Dunhatn, '96, has been at Easton, Pa., attend- ing the annual convention of the Phi Gamtna Delta fraternity . R. Porter Johnson, of Ogdensburgh, has been visiting his brother, R. T. Johnson, '98, on the hill for a few days . Franklin B. Do,vd, guest of friends on the day~ Nov. 22 and 23. of Saratoga, was the hill Saturday and Sun- Clements, '95, who is now studying theology at Auburn, spent the Thanksgiving vacation at his hotne in Schenectady. W. H. Hall, '96, was the guest of George Sands, '98, during the Thanksgiving vacation at his home in New York city. R. Grant White of Cooperstown, spent a few days with friends on the hill and attended the Williams-Union gatne in Albany. Harold Kirby, of Canajoharie, and Wagner VanVlack, of Palatine Bridge, who expect to enter the class of rgoo, have been visiting friends on the hill.

THE OOROORDIENSIS. OU:R GHAMBERMAIDS. These fourteen prettymaideTlS, Whose photographs you se·e, Are none other than our Chambermaids, And you won.de1· now, that we Should be so blessed, with maidens fair To smoothly make our beds, And after we've been on a tare, ~Po gently bind our·heads. So many. people wonder how '\Ve keep our rooms so clean. But they wouldn't be so much surprised If om· Oha:rri'bermaids they'd seen. With caps and aprons. you can :find them, During the whole morning, Our rooms and. sections with their smiles, And kindil.y words adorning. The faculty in choosing girls to ·wait Upon us students, Have exercised'the greatest care, And shown the greatest prudE7nce. ~Po satisfy the choiee and taste Of every man in college, They must use the gteatest care, And thus display their knowledge. The grave and sedate maiden, Is chosen for the Senior, While for the Junior gay the choice, Is one of opposite demeanol'. The Soph wants one who says \now stop,\ .And can smoke a cigarette, While the little Frosh must have a girl, Who has sh@rt dresses yet. There are tw<> for every section, And two m<>re to oversee Each one of tbese fair maidens Wherever s.lle may be, And you, my friend, can rightly judge, By looking :at each face, If a prettier :l()t of girls exists, In all the human race. So young, so gay, so full·of fun, And yet so very proper, That they will .speak to no one save Our tried and trusted coppel'. So g-enerous and kind are they, That they do whate'er we say, And wait on us with willing hands, From daw11. till close of day. Long live the grey old walls, is heard From every student's voice! Long live the noble Faculty That makes such goodly choice! Long live the students young and gay, Who well their parts have played; And last, but not the least of all, Long live our Chambermaids ! '96. Terty, '96, and Bookho·ut, '97, played with the Walton foot-ball teatn on Thanksgiving day against the Cazenovia Serninary temn., and the former won by a score of 44 to o. Guy H. J\dillet, '94, of Her'kimer, son of ex- Senator Warner Mille1', has been promoted ftom the position of chainman· to that of leveler in the state engineer's deparhnent. The officers of the Freshman class are : Ptesident, ,V, G. Kellog; vice-president, W. ]. Stone; secretary, M. M. Price; treasul'er, W. H. Lord; toasttnaster,. W. R. Fox; foot- ball manager, W. II. Roselle ; tnanaget of track athletics, Geo. C. Foote ; captain of track athletics, John F. Cregan; foot-ball captain, 1 W. H. Lyon; base-ball captain,]. P. McLean.

are: w. of rack ean. THE OONOORDIENSIS. 17 rrl Many of the ::::~ok advantage of ~ the vacation last week and visited tb,eir ho1nes. Mr. Hoyt took in the Yale-Princeton foot- ball gam,e at New )..; orlc The banquet to be given by the class officers to the class bas not yet occurred, the titne seem- ingly being indefinitely postponed. Mr. Corrigan has been spending~a couple of \veeks at his hotne in Pawtucket, R. I. One of the boys was kept very busy last week answering questions that were suggested by the rumor that \ The Judge\ was to depart frotn the life of single blessedness. No one seemed to be enlightened by the answer received. If the rumor was well founded \The Judge\ has our heartiest congratulations. ~~~~ T. B. Maynard, '96, has returned to college after a short illness. J. W. Scott, '96, performed a very skillful · operation for relief of Plurnosis. J. A. Stevenson, superintendent of the Albany Hospital, has entered tl1e class of '97. was found that that there vvere twenty-five tnen in the Junior and Freshman classes who had more or il!ess experience playing on the different teatns,, aU of whotn have signified their inten- tion of trying for the team. A 1neeting was called on. Dec .. 5, at 2:30 P. M.,, inviting all studen~ts who were interested ·in foot-ball to attend. Griswold, '97, was appointed chair- man, .and the foUowing business was transacted : Podvin, '98, was unanimously elected manager, and ·Griswold, '97, captain of the team f<?'r the coming :season. There is no doubt that this will develop more university spidt and tnake life tnore interesting at the A. M. C. Let every loyal tnedical student support this good tnovel1D.ent, both financially and by ·con11ng out and pfaying. THE FRESJ;IMAN CLASS OFFJCERS. President, George ·C. Cull; vice-president, Robt. W. Andrews; secretary and treasurer, W. R. Miller ; first marshal, ·C. Dolan ; assis- tant m.m·shal, F. Jansen. JUNIOR CLASS ELECTION. At a meeting of the Junior class, Nov. 8, 1895: the following officers were elected for the ensun~g year : President, Eugene W. Baltes, Oswego ; vice- president, Robert L. Ellithorp, Troy; secretary, Williatn L. Fodder, ·Cohoes; treasurer, Fred. N. Guyer, Albany; orator, Chas. N. Van Denbel'ge, Schenectady ; poet, rl'hon1as D. Collins, Salen1 ; marshal, Robert C. Davies, Holland Patent. In the evening the class assetnbled at the banqueting hall, where they partook of the plentiful repast and listened to the appropriate toasts 11esponded to by tnembers of the respective classes. e5~e {r\tJSioal flssooiatioQ. A meeting of the Albert Van der Veer Society was held on Monday, Dec. 9· Papers were The Musical Association, under the efficient read by Murphy, '96, subject, \'Hypnotis:rn managership of C. W. Clowe, '96, is progress- and by Shaw' '96, subject, \ State Care of the ing rapidly, and bids fair to excel the excellent Insane.\ It is customary for the students to raise a standard set by last year's clubs. Weekly purse on Thanksgiving for the janitor, in order rehearsals are being held, which are t~ithfully to show their appreciation of his obliging n~ture. attended by a large number of students. In About $45 was raised, and the presenting speech addition to the usual college songs severai new was tnade by SanfoTd, '96. pie9es of considerable difficulty are being For a long time the subject of rnaintaining a learned. All the music, but especially that of foot-ball team at the Medical department of the University has been agitated. It, however, • the glee club, will be of a much higher order took Griswold, ' 9 7, a very enthusiastic foot-ball · than that of last year. It had bee11 expected to player, to bring affairs to a climax. On looking , take a trip during the Christtnas holidays, but over material for the formation of a tearn, it • owing to the insufficiency of preparation the ..

18 - ADVERTISEMENTS. - PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. plan has been abandoned. No definite arrange- Inents for concerts have as yet been n1ade. The glee dub is led by ]\Jr. Frank C. MacMahon, of .Albany, and the banjo and 1nandolin clubs it is hardly necessary to state are again led by Mr. J. A. O'Neill, '97, n1edical. The following have been picked for the clubs : Mandolin Club-Mandolins: Vossler, ~96, Baker, '98~ A. Sotntner, '96, Scofield, 'g6, · Wyckoff,, '97, JYiarks, '99, Bradford, '99, Cook, '99· 'Guitars: Vosburgh, '96, Slocum, '97, • Ensign, '97, Warner, '98, Haggart, '98, Boss, '98. Fiute: Skinner, '98. Violin: BaUat·d, '98. Cello: Eatnes, '99· Banjo Club-Banjos: Vossler, '96~ Hild, '98, Scbennerhorn, '99, Bradford, '99, Van der Veer, '99· Guitars: Ensign; '97, Slocum,, '97, · Haggart, 'g8, Warner, '98. Glee Club-First tenor: Gillespie, '98, medi- cal ; Li pes, '97, 111edical ; Allen, '98, medical. Second tenor: Hinn1an, '99, Green, medical; Weeks, medical. First bass : Beattie, '96, Brown, '97, Hild, '98. Second bass: Wyckoff, '97, Cox, '98, Eames, '99, Mac Mahon, '99· B\'ellows~ --: HA YE YOU READ:-- c,oLLEGE GIRLS? l'r 18 A BEAV'T'IFUL BOOK. * * BY AND GOODLOE GIBSON. * * ALL GIFT BOOKS, ENGRAVED CARDS AND FOUN- TAIN PENS AT LOWEST PRICES. See our specialties 'in every g'f'ade of •.. , DR AWl NG I NST.RUMENfS, . . . . l'\ou 'Will &U'l'ely be pleased. W'E tOU LD t10T ~f) IMPROVe TtU: QUALI ~ lif PAID DOU BLf\ TttE PRICE- A Z OJ. TRIAL PA(,KAGE -~~~ ~c·!t' POST PA:I D !h.;-r~ FOR 25 (,ENT~. J'I\ARBURG BROS. ~~~oil, THf AME'RI<..Aii TOBA{.( .. O CO~ ~~;r.-. BAL.TfM\ORE ESTABLISHED 1818. BROOKS BROTH:ERS, Broadway, cor. 22d St., N.Y. City. Clothing and Furnishing Goocls, READY MADE AND MADE TO MEASURE. Our stock for Fall and Winter of 1895-96, now ready in. all departments, will be found especially complete and attractive. For Clothing to order we offer a selection of all the various materials now popular in London, with proper facilities for executing o1·ders with the least possible delay. The particular care exercised by us in the cut, manufaeture and novelty or patterns in our Men's Ready Made Garments is also extended to our CLOTHING FOR BOYS AND CHILDREN, and guarantees (3_xclusive styles; at the same ti1ne the NECESSITY FOR MODERATE PRICES has not been overlooked. Our Furnishing Goods Department contains the usual complete line of standard goods besides novelties in Shetland and Fair lsle Sweaters, Lamb's Wool Jackets. etc., etc. A. B. VOSSLER, 1 96. H. Nl1lLLIS, '98, Our location one block fron1 Madison Square, is convenient to the leading hotels and easy of access from the principal railway stations in New · York and vicinity. •

s, ally all our the ers, of THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. 19 . - . - - . - ' . . GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE 'rO THOSE WHO ARE JN'TERESTED IN UNION. EJ:O::S:~ON:C st:raight 01.:t.t No_ :1. o:iga:rette s. Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a ·little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will find THIS 13RAND superior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gol(l Leaf grown in Virginia. ThiF; is the Old and Original Brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the yea -t I 87 s. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observe that the fi1·m na1ne as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, The American Tobacco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~y~ CITY ~~ TROUSERS -;~ CO., . . -~-·_E_. _F_. _D_A_L,_Y_. __ ®?. FiiiE Cu.STon' TJilli:oRIN<i . Suits, $10 t1p. Trousers, $4 t1p. Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a postal card and our representative (C. E. HENNESY) '\ill call. 149 80. GEN'T'RE 81'REEi'. Next door to Barhydt House. '\ LI'l'TLE CHRISTOPHER. \-The lBOSt notable att1·action Schenectady theatregoers have had an · opportunity to see this season will be presented at the Van Curler, Saturday, Dec. 14, the G-arden Theatre Cornpany in the successful burlesque '· Little Christ~pher \ '!'his organization is l!lnder the direction of A. M. Paln1er, of Pa1ln1e:r's and the Garden Theatre, N~ew York. The success attained by,., Little Christopher'' there was .a run of. 262 nights. lt wiU p1•obably duplicate i-ts suc- cess here. The leading cotnedy role is in the hands of that popular and quaint co1nedian, Willie Col ier. The others in the cast are the fol- lowing well known ar,tists: Fannie Johnston, Alexander Clark, Harry MacDonough John W il- son, Louise Allen, Bertha vVaring, Pauline 'Train and Mable Clark, the farnous dancer. It is the largest and 1nost elabo1~ate entertaintnen.t of a burlesque class ever presented here One hundred people are in the cast. 'The entire organization is transplanted fron1 N,ew York, and is identically the same as it was given in that city during its long run. HANLON'S ''SUPERBA.\-The Hanlon Brothers spectacle and pantornine, '' Superba,\ will be given here in its entirety for two nights, Dec. 19 and 20. This should prove a rare occasion, as the company nuru bers son1e 7 5 people, carries a. la1·ge ballet and three carloads of beautiful scen.ery. COAL.~ ~COAL • BUY YOUR GOAL OF W. P. GARNSEY, * ------~ OOAL. ~ Office, 433 State Street. Yard, 229 Park Place. 4i3 COAL. ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ _FU_RN_IT_U_R_E _AN_D_B_E __ DD_IN_G_,~ ALL %NDS £. FOR ® STU·DENTS ® 'U,SE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

20 THE OONCORD1ENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED B¥ OUR ADVERTISERS. ' 00. Oh, '99, no\\\r cheer thee up, And learn the Soph'rnore tricks; To set the ''double no thin's up \ In. 1896. p. P'. s. ' '98. 1'he U. C. I. :teatn of the city and a scrub tetun frotn the college played a ga1ne of foot- baU on Saturday, Nov. 30, the score resulting 4 to o in favor of the scrub. - - - - - . -•••••••-•\'\\'\\'''\''\''\'''\'\''•''''''•••••••••••••••••,.o-oo•\'••••o•ooo•u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••U••••••••uo•ooo••••. '\\'\\'\-'\'\''''\'''\'''''' ••••••••o•u••••••••••••-••oo••••••••.-••••••u••••••••••uoooo•••••••••••••••••••\••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••ooo :::: .. :::.-:::;:.-.::: .. -.· .. :::::.:::;.:::: . .-.:::::.::::.::::.-.-~:::_-:.::.-.-.:::.-.-.:::-.-.~:.-.-.::::- .. -.::::- .. ·.:::- .. -.:::: .. ·.::; .... - ~::::.::::.:::::.-.:::: .. - .. ::::.::::.-.::::: .. ::;: - - 129 WALL ST., OpJl. Post Office, The largest and finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. A CoLLEGE EnucATION Is ve1·y helpful to a YOUNG MAN and should be obtained when possible. GENT's }~uRNISHING Goons Are what you must have (and perfect fitting ones too) in order to make .L:::::.::::::::=:=- __ your stay at Old Union pleasant and satis- factory. H. S. BARNEY & CO. have .Shirts, Collars, Cuffs, UmbrellaR, etc. Ever::ything in fact, in Gent's Furn ishh1g line at the Lowest Prices. •>+<. H. S. BARNEY & CO~- W~I:LLIAM DOBE'RMANN:, --- GA'TERER FOR ... -- EDDINGS, . . . •· . ..c=::::::===-.. __ 8 u p :P E R 8, E TG I VARIETY OF ICE C::REA~I AND ICES' CONSI!r.ANTLY ON HAND. • • •• FltiH'J) OYSTERS ~$2 PEil HUNl)l{EI}. • • • • DOBE~MA!'JN'S ~ESTI1AU~ANJ1l ,f.04 !!!2 1(),6 WALL ST'REET. Oys.tm• Ste1-v in Pail t~ take Home, 25 cents .. Oyste'l' O'l'' Clan-, Fry i-n a Bore, 2l$ cents. ~U; ~ ~ .EMPIRE STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 ~AY STREET, WALTE:R& HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per term, strictly ).r ~) J in advance. ~ I. HOUGH, 313 STATE ST. EVERYTHING IN THE LINE O::F NU~NIIFU~E, BEDDING, Clf~FEJI!~, CU~lF7II]\1~, E!FC. SPECI.A.L PRICES WILL BE . • • . • • ,., ~ \ , .,._ QUOTED TO STUDENT:S' TR.ADm~

•· . ----.....................___-- ADVERTISEMENTS. ----- 21 READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS. IT'·WILL PAY YOU. \); . ' • • • . - FOR S.ALE. ~ ~ TO LEASE. MANUFACTORIES ~· AND DWELLINGS. I I I II ~I --o----:::::~ 0 I II l! ,· ' F'OR RENT-~ ~· D1velli1tf} Houses and Flats Excellently Located, .. Adapted ------------------------··- ------ ·---· to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN·, Treasurer Union College. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONC ISLAND CITY.

j ,'\ ,, 'I ! ' ,. 'I! _,1 22 ........ __ ........., __ --------- ADVERTISEMENTS. _.,._,.,.,,........, LET OUR ADVERTISERS KNOW YOlJ ARE COLLEG-E MEN WHEN DEALING WITH THEM:. ~ b t) z ~ 0 ~ w --l I. LEVIN!E, r--3: :c M ~i > ~ CD tr1 (f) ~ (/) ~ 0 0 ~ Van 8urler Opera House Block. LOWEST PRICES. {IV Jl YLE & SON, ~ * E!iQKAVE~S, * FOUNTAIN PENS,~---§·-~=--~ UNI'ON COLLECE ~.SOUVENIR SPOONS, ~ FLAG PI N8, ETG. 8 A N DE R 8' d-EW E L E R S, 233 81'AT'E sr., SGH EN EG'TADY. N. Y, ------ BAJlHYTI£ & llEV}~NPECI\, ...... Wholesale and Retail Dealers in €0}lL -:~.- JlNB -:- W00D Coal,. Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. -----ALBANY, N.Y. • Y. M. C. A.~=====---. AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dressing : Opp. Edison Hotel (up sta,h•s.) · USE A. SCHMIDT'S NEW DI~COVE&Y FOR T~HE HAIB. A certain ctJre for Dandruff, Scalp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. \ J>HOTOGitAPHIC SUPPJ1IES , ... Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes of ...•• <eamC(ras, Dry plat~s al)d ceard ~toe~ At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. Q:EO. H. Q\IARDINEER, Successor to J. N. McDonald. ~tc ~E ~~l{U~l{]\1~, jte+ ·---=====---=-·==CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. .;le6t ilinner in the ~§ity £or 25 ~~ent6. ; ...-Meal 'tickets wiH be sold to Students only . . . . . . ...... for $3.00 for 21 Tickets. . WILSON DAYIS, .... M~R.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade, 544 Bi·oadway, Albany, N. Y 237 Sr ATE S'f ·> ScBENEcTADY, N. Y.

