T~IB VoL. XIX. G®NG®RDlENSIS. No:. 13. also be desi:rable for any one? And where can this culti·vation be better obtained than in a ''No,\ said a practical ( ?) father, '·'I aint : college education? agoin' t()) :send John to college, for he's to be a Does the business man want to confess that merchant; but }an1es shall go there, for he's to refine,Jnent and cultivation do not become hitn? be a lawy:er .\ It would seen1 as though the matter of personal Is HOt this a fair exatnple of the estirnate · pride should prevent this. placed upon a college education by the average \ Wall, neow, I don't care ; my daughter Jane business n1an-it tnay be good and necessary hez most broke tny heart,\ said farmer Jenkins. for the pt~ofessional man, but of no use to hirn? \ Seein' .ez how I bed prospered I wanted ter In fact, n:rany belonging to the class to which do the best I could fer her, so I sent her ter the latter belongs dai 11.1 that to one in .their . Wellesley ter give her a fust-class edication; position a college education-or rather the and neow she's cum home and plays silly training necessary in obtaining it-is a positive things on the pianer that aint no good nohow. detritnent. There's a larger, or largo, by G. F. Handel, Let us inquire if it is so. ·. Esquire, and a moonlight snorter by Mr. Beet The C(i)tnmercial value-or, better yet,. the Oven, and I hunger and thirst in vain fur even con1tnerdal necessity-of the higher grade of ·. a few notes of silver gold an1ong the threads, education is universally adn1itted. We have · sich ez she uster play; but I don't never gif it, but to consider what we could do without the , and I'tn afraid I never shall.\ work guided by education in our every day life • Let us leave farmer Jenkins to his medita- to realize how greatly dependent we are upon it. tions, as we would the tnan of business to his- But, is the purely practical the only advantage who cannot or will not adn1it that he cares in to be deri•ved therefrotn? the least for education beyond the dollar-and- In looking at a piece of architecture-the ·• cent view of it. Brooklyn bridge if you please-we are itn- • The criticistn that the time occupied in get- pressed with the fact that science has carefully ' ting a college education is ·wasted, so far as planned how the different parts should be ad- . business training is ·Concerned, is quite forcibly justed to one another-the steel, the stone, the • met by a notable instance of a young man cetnent-to tnake one perfect whole that shall · graduated from college in 1893 who inherited be safe, strong and durable; but does the itn- : from his (very wealthy) father's estate a large pression end there? Was there no symtnetry in : block of stock in a protninent railroad. The its construction? Beyond the convenience was • tnost natural thing for him to do, possessing no thoug:ht given to pleasing the eye, and back , his large fortune,. would seem to be nothlng, of that the appreciation of the beautiful? A but he does not look at it in that light. He single glance ·at that elegant structure in such purposes becoming a railroad man. Beginning wonderful grace uniting the two cities is a at the forge and bench with the humblest sufficient answer to that question. mechanic, he afterwards became fireman on an And is, not an appreciation of the beautiful a engine, and among his last achievements vvas desirable trait for any one-even a business · taking up the rod and chain of the civil engineer. man? Still further, if this taste is desirable for ·. In regard to h~m I quote the following: any one,, why should not the C\]ltivation of it •. \ fersons who delig-ht to tell of the tendency

THE CONOORDIENSIS. of a college education to unfit young men for . the hard work of life and to rob them of all atnbition and wiHingness to work would be led to doubt for once their own theories could they see this refined young bachelor of arts clad in overalls and ju1n per, and doing the work of a day laborer, when, if he were so disposed, be could lead a life of quiet and idleness.\ If the lack of anything suggestive of affairs commet·cial is ,even in a small tneasure a detri- ment to a young man who wishes the college education and yet desires, to be a business man, why not have a system · oi ccnnmercial training in connection with the other branches? If a tnatter so practical as techno logy has become so important a factor in the schools, why would not this also he decidedly useful? The rernark- able success of the institute established in Antwerp in 1852, as well as of quite a ntunber in operation to-day in Germany, where the workings of every day business are taught, is shown by the de111and there is, even in London, for clerks, who were educated in any of these schools. Might not the plans upon which they are conducted fonn a suggestion as to the tnethods to be employed in carrying out the san1e idea but in connection with other business? The age 1nay not be ready for such a de- parture fro1n beaten paths, but will it not come in time? Now, tny business friend, to return to the subject in hand, you have brains, you must have H lots of thern \ to have accumulated the fortune you possess, but please refrain from doing them such a cruel injustice as to assert that you have '\no use for a college education \-with all the delightful associations that pettain to it, associa- tions that grow dearer with years, and with all • those refinements of know ledge that tnake life . here happier and better, and that surely point • to that grander life toward which the highest • culture, hand in hand with the Ilivine teachings, , rr1ust ever tend. JoHN T. MYGATT, '58. Ripley A. Lyon, a graduate of Union, who ; is suffering from a critical attack of typhoid 1 fever in a hospital in Salt Lake City, is reported ; to be no better. Y. fT\. \. fl. p:residel]ts' \OI]VeqtioQ. · The annuai convention of the :presidents elect of the various Y. M. C. A's in the ·educational · institutions of New York, N evv England and • Canada was held here from Thucsday to Sunday inclusive. Thet'e were n.ot as n1any delegates · p~~esent as were at first expected, but the meetings dtd not want in :enthusias,m on th.:is a,ccount,. and . the purpose of t11e convention was so fully re- alized that every body consideredi it a thorough : success. The convention consisted of a series of n1eet- ing-s, more or less inforrnal, arranged and con- ducted by sorne of the international and general secretaries of th.'e Association, for the express purpose of ·tnaking efficient presidents who are to preside over their respective branches of the Association. Here the nevvly elected presidents and others who are closely identified with the christian work in our institutions of learning ' \' con1e and reason together,\ ,c:tnd gather the llelpful suggestions offered by those who have had greater experience,- as they outline the plans of catnpaign. Held as it is at this season of the year, ,it enables the presidents to return to their colleges and put into practi-ce the theories of work decided upon in this training school. The opening session was held on Thursday evening in the Philosophical room, where all, save the popular meetings, wet-e held. The general subject of this n1eeting was : ''The College Field of the East,\ and w~s pTesided over by Secretary Beaver of Philadelphia, who tTeated exhaustively the theme ~' The Pl.~oblem of the Difficulties and Encouragetnent of the College of the Eastern States.\ In his !'()marks he de- veloped the thoughts that certain dijjicultles must needs be-that encourage1.nent is not found in any work that has not its attendant imped- i tnen ts. Fro1n the nature of the difficulties with which the Eastern associations are con- fronted and our ability to tneet th.em we find the g.reatest encouragetnent. He ia1>pressed upon the delegates the opportunities of great tnoment -open to thetn.,-and appealed to them for more action and straightforward service. On Friday 1norning the conventionconsidered :the Hu tre: seC 1 ret< :the ·sizi At tna· ti 01 Ge( c ·\-. j:ou WE hel1 in 1 we1 Mr, Mi~ 1 eve dei1 me~ wit ass wa Bo . spt it, we to of di~ 0C( COl co: ill( w~ thi De se( de fol B<

ct al I, d .e THE OONOORDIENSIS. 5 :the subject of \The Presidents.\ · Secretary : teer Moven1:ent. Mr. Beaver then spoke ln·iefly Hunt of N·ew York was the first speaker vvho . on \Student Sutnrner Sd'lools.\ treated :the phase \His Q!,1alifications.\ The ·· The only meeting which was open to the second phase, '' His Duties,\ was taken by Sec- · public was held on Saturday evening in the retary Georgi, while E. M. Sayford spoke on . chapel. State Sect~e:tary Goodtnan presided and :the top.ic of \ College Evangelists,\ empha- . conducted the opening exercises, after wliJ. ieh. he ·sizing the cultivation of the christian graces. · introduced Secretary Salltnon of Yale., who At the afternoon session State Secretary Good- : spoke b1·.iefly on '' What the Association Means tnan addressed the delegates on H The Associa- • at Yale.\ In his 1·etnarks he told of the beautiful tions Finances.\ l-Ie was followed by Secretary • building,. Dwighfs Hall, the horn.e of the Asso- Georgi who spoke on '~ Association Literation.\ ciation, aud also with equai interest and earnest- Shortly after 4 o'clock the convention ad- .· ness of the Rescue Mission carried on by their · association in the slutns of New Haven in a j:ourned to tbe horne of Dr. and Mrs. W illi.atn . Wells where a very delightful reception was building which was once the l'lotne of a notorious held in their honor. Arnong those who assisted· dive. He finished his address with a C()ndse in receiving besides the tnembers of the faculty' . explanation of the systetnatic organization of were :Vliss \Veils, Mrs. Sewall, Mrs. Ripton, , their associati·on. Mr. Evans, of Pri~eeton, Mrs. Prosser, Mrs. Truax, Mrs. Mosher and the . followed, and referred to the .strong hand of Misses Landon. student volunteers in their association. Mr. Sewall, of New York City, then spoke of the The general subject for consideration at the \Students Movetnent,\ outlining its purposes evening session was \The Work for New Stu- and aitns, and stating its present stage of ()J·gan- deilts.\ This was one of the most itnportant • ization. These rernarks were then supplem.ented meetings of the convention, since it had to do . by E. Lawrence Hunt, of New York City, with the most vital question before the college . Secreta1y of the Movement, who spoke 011 ''The association to-day. The address of the evening Signifi.cance of the Movetnent to Am~rica.\ was delivered by Secretary Robert E. Lewis of He showed that n1an needs something much Boston, who was exceedingly practical as well n1ore than high inteBectual training, an <!l said as logical in his treatment of the subject. . He that the \ Students' Movement\ endeavored to laid stress upon its great importance since the give that something- to college bred n1en. spiritual power of an association depends upon Secretary Robert E. Lewis, of Boston, was it, although it is a preliminary feature of the the next speaker and treated the '' Signi:tlcance work. The Saturday tnorning session was devoted to two topics, the first being '' The Cultivation of the Divine Nature,\ by Mr. Sayford. The discussion of the other subject \Bible Study\ occupied the remainder of the tnorning. It was conducted by one of the strongest men of the convention, General Secretnry VVtn. H. Sall- mon of Yale University. The \ Missionary Meeting\ of the convention was held on Saturday afternoon. The first thing under discussion was '' The Missionary Departtnent of the College Association,\ and Secondly a practical topic, '' Why should Stu- dents be Interested in Missions? \ This was follo-wed by an address given by the Rev. H. P. Beach, Natio~1al Secretary of the Student Volun- of the Movetnent frotn the World Aspect.\ This was one of the strongest and n1ost inter- esting addresses of the evening. He refeTred to an international conference held a few n1.onths ago in Norway, at which the leading institutions of Europe and the East were represented, when a fraternal alliance was formed in connection with the Student Movement under the banner of'' Christ, the Divine Redee1ner.\ Tbe great significance of this fact was n1ade shnple, as he showed how each of the great n4ttions depends entirely upon its universities for its power, and to have them con1bine with all their other ad- verse opinions under such a tnotto of uni~ty can bring only the greatest encourag-e1nenL The closing address of the evening was deliv:ered by Mr. S. M. Sayford, who spoke of the ~1·esent

6 THE CONCORDIENiSTS. condition of student life and sbowed that the · Clary,, Maine State; ]. L. Davis., U niv. Ver- ·Christian Association has been the aU important. mont.; P. Daniels, Montpelier Meth. :Sern.; factor in producing it. · A. J. Hutchinson, Jr., Troy Conf. Acad. ; H. A short 1neeting was held Sunday morning· T. Wal1er, Vermont Acad.; E. W. Capen for the de[egates only, before they separated to .• (Rep.), Harvard; H. S. Stone, Mt. H~ermon attend ~ervice at the various city churches, but •. Sch. ;. H. M. Briggs, Willian1s.; E. H. Will- at 4:15 in the afternoon a meeting was arranged ; marth, Worcester Boly. Inst.; W. S. Learned, for in tbe chapel to which the students and . Brow,lil:; H. S. Coffin and Gen. Sec. W. H. faculty were invited. They were addressed by . SalhnC>n, ¥ale ; C. E. Dodge, Conn. Lit. In st. ; Mr. S. M. Sayford, who said if he were to · W. J. Swart (V. P.), Albany Med.; A. C. choose a text he would take John 5:24-, which •· Prentice (V. P.), Alfred Univ.; D. A. Davy, could be sutnn1~ed up in the question \Dead or · Hami 1 lton; F. P. Hunter, Colgate Acad. ; L W. Alive, Which?\ He secured the attention of·. Guill man, •Colgate; L .. T. Genung and Sec. aU at the outset, and by his progressive thoughts · H. W .. Hicks, Cornell ; T. Hough, Genesee and rich illustrations, he kept it until he ciDosed. Wesleyan Se1n. ; J. Lee,· College Phys. and The meeting will long be retnembered by all ·. Surg .. ; E. C. Brown, ~Coltnnhia; F. T. Petti- who were present, and to a great many it was a bone, Hotnrepathic Med. Col., N. Y. City ; source of much good. L. V. Waldron, N. Y. U niv. Med. ; J. R. The last meeting of the convention was held Wyckoff, N · Y · Col. of Dentistry ; G. W. Kennedy (V. P.), N. Y. Col. of Phannacy; at the usual place on Sunday evening. Secretary Sec. E. Hunt and C. E. Sewall, Students' Beaver presided, and stated that the work for l\1 w-o t N y R S p N Y U · ovel!uen , • . . ; . . . ovey, · . . ntv. ; that session consisted in determining the policies G. J. Swan, Col. City of N. Y. ;.J. L. Young, which were to govern the work in each institu- Potsda1n Nonnal; C. B. Tenny, Rochester; tion represented during- the ensuing year. C. E. Pollock and D. L. Wood, Union; H. W. Masnard,. Rens. Poly. Inst.; H. S .. Langnecker, Secretary Lewis was called upon to e1nphasize PI '1' E A J w 1 R T s 11 1ps xeter ; . · . a ter, . utgers ; . . . the tenor of the policy as a whole. Sec1 4 etaries Evans, Princeton. Hicks, of Cornell, and Salhnon, of Yale, were asked for suggestions fro1n their own plans, while the Rev. Mr. Beach spoke of the inl- portance of pro1noting the Missionary spirit. The tneeting was then open to general remarks, . and it was the united testimony of all tllat the · \ conference had made plain the opportunities and privileges open to the officers of the vat·ious college associations the purpose of the conven- . tion. The officers and delegates in attendance were · · as follows, the delegates being presidents of • their respective associations except as otherwise · designated : S. M. Sayford·; Boston, Mass. ; G. A. Beaver, N. Y. City; Rev. H. P. Beach, : Springfield, Mass., Educational Sec. of the · Volunteer Movement; Sec. R. E. Lewis, Boston; Sec. H. W. Georgi, N. Y. City; State · Sec. F. S. Goodman, N. Y. City; Ass't State Sec. D. A. McPhie, Boston; G. L. Leonard, Sec. Publication Dep't, N. Y. City. DELEGATEs.-E. Skillings, Bates ; J. R. j-fow It's Dol]~. TWENTIETH CEN'l'URY VERSION. Good Frosh- Oshkosh- College- Knowledge- Came to get Soon a Soph- Beer quaff- Snippy- Chippy- Cigarette. Next year, No beer-· Thinner- Winner- Honor get. Then at last- All past- Knowit- Show it-. Room to let !-P. :P. s.

er- H. iU- H. ; c. ec. tti- . v ' R. ; . , ; s. THE CONCORDIENSIS.

TRE CONO:ORDIENSIS. 8yraeuge Wil)g tf)e f{~w Yor~ State Jcyt~r­ ~oHeQiat~ Ora:torical ~of)test. Last Friday the New York State Oratorical League held its annual contest under the auspices of Rochester University at the Park Avenue Baptist ·Church in Rochester. Union, Syracuse and Rochester, the three m·embers of the league, w·ere each represented and the contest proved to be ·a very close and interesting one. Union was '~For beautiful composition Mr. Allen prob .. ably was far ahead of hiH competitors. His greatest fault was an inclination to depend upon dramatic force for the interpretation of his thought. Iri doing this his enunciation was not clear and frequently the words were unin- 11 . 'bl. \ te 1g1 ·e. represented by H. 'C .. Allen, 'gS, whose subject · The 1nusical clubs are going to give us a was ''Cuba.\ The Syracuse speaker was ·C. · concert. It lis to be a decided n1usical treat and W. Walker, subject, '' Frederick Douglass\ ; . an extraordinary affair for every Union rr1an. and the Rochester representative was J. M. · The date announced is Monday, April zoth, at Oaksford, subject, ''Oliver Cro-mwell and the · the Van Curler. The Glee club has n1any new Revolution.\ Mr · Walker proved to be the · songs, but nevertheless they will not neglect successful contestant and the decision by the , judges seetned to 1 neet the approval of everybody those fatniliar ones, which are associated with present. The judges of the contest were Rev. all our best metnories of college life. The in- Richard D. Harlan, Rev. H. Clay Peopels and . strutnental music will also be new and popular. Nathaniel Foote, aH of Rochester. As a tnatter of fact every 1nan in college will The league was organized three years ago, need several tickets. 'They tnay be obtained of and now each of the three colleges has won a contest. In 1 g 94 Mr. Varney of Rochester and . Manager Clowe or frotn his assistants, who have in 1895 Mr. R. H. Potter of Union were the voluntarily oflered to dispose of thetn, and who winners. Concerning Union's representative, · will canvass the classes. the Rochester Herald of Saturday says: · A second concert will follow on the zznd, at \Mr. Allen, of Union, \'·hose subject was . Odd Fellows Hall, Albany. The concert m 'Cuba,' was the first speaker. In his intro- : duction he briefly referred to the incidents which . Albany is usually the tnost successful event of preceded the little isle''s present struggle for the season, and in view of the present college liberty and release frotn the tyrannical and op- . removal agitation, it protnises to be as success- pressive yoke of Spain. The mother country . ful this year. This, however, will depend had burdened little Cuba with excessive taxation • and had done nothing looking toward the • largely upon the college men whose hotnes are development of the isle. Cuba had always been in Albany. By a little canvassing of tickets in faithful to the mother country. She had been . that city among their friends and the alutnni, devoted to its cause and had cotne to be known . the attendance will be greatly increased. We by the Spaniards as \the ever faithful isle.\ · hope also that the university students in the But her devotion was met with tyranny and op- : Law school and Medical college will attend in pression and her repeated petitions for liberty • were unheeded. Then the little isle began a : a body, and thus materially aid the success of struggle for liberty. Mr. Allen deplored the · the college's student associations. apathy of the United States toward Cuba. It · It is to be retnembered that the profits of was not characteristic of Americans, as was . these concerts not only lend toward the support shown by the intervention in behalf of V ene- • of a Musical Association, but are also divided zuela. 1'here was no boundary dispute in Cuba, : no itnaginary line; but there was the deep line . atnong the Foot-Ball, Base-Ball and 'Track in the tnother's brow and the line on the fair ·• Athletic Associations. If the management is child's face. Mutder was a pastime to the · able to tnake these two cotning concerts a sue- Spaniard. Tearful eyes were viewing the ruins : cess, a large share of the profits will then be which now covered the land which was once so ,. used in the advancetnent of both the Musical fair and beautiful ; longing eyes were looking for the flash of the sword which could 1nake • and Athletic Associations during the coming Cuba free. ·, year . ..

.. His pon his not . a at lect . 111- lar. of ave at m of are . 1n . . m of of ort . IS be ·THE CONOORDIENSIS. 9 stead of praise only for D.r. Nott and the oklen . days.. Let some wealthy :man get on his feet ·and teU what he will do for Dr. Raymond and Edltor ·Concordlensz's: the lTnion of to-day instead of what he used to Th.e letter of A. W. ·Gleason in your issue of do in the days of Dr. N ott and the walls of that March 2 5th, relative to the ren1oval of the building which is used but once. a year will college to Aibany, propGtJnds several questions, : develop an echo which will prove it good at and I venture to answet· thenl from the stand- • least for a sounding board. point of an alutnnus who resides in. New ''What will they substitute for the beautiful England, who daily conl'es in contact wtth the view of the valley and the bills ? ,, graduates of New England colleges and who I would swap tha vi:ew of the vaHey for knows something of their history and present buildings, for dormitories so that our sons when equii)Lnent for the education of youth, yet who · they enter college can live in suitable rooms, withal is a loyal son of 01d Union and has for ·. have cotnfortable warn1th, light and ventilation, his ahna n1ater a love as deep as if he were yet . for all the appurtenances of modern 1 ife found within her portals. in other colleges, for an up-to-date Burt and \ Who in all this W()dd has an interest in : power to get water nearer than the old putnp, Union Co1l~ge if not the students who. are a • for a gytnnasiun 1 cotnrnensurate with the prowess part of it?'' of Union's sons, and suitable homes for the I should answer-the :faculty who are devot- faculty. I would trade the view of the hilts for ing their lives to Union, the trustees who guard · an endowtnent that would provide an equipment its interests, the alumni who show by their · for the coHege capable of doing the worl< in lives the result of the yea1·s spent in college and • which it is now lacking,-trade the view of one their best endeavors to pt~otnote the welfare of •. bill for a new chernical laboratory, anothe1· for the institution, the n1en who have given of their . a physical laboratory, another for an engineering means to endow the college and render its · department, and if there were hills enough I existen.ce possible have an interest in Union would get in the bargain a biological and College and in theiT keeping that interest is . histological laboratory. safe. With all due regard for the wishes of the . I would leave the central building where it is unJergTaduates I do not feel that they should • that in future ages wise 1 nen may gather and enter largely into the decision. · · discuss its probable origin and use tnuch as they \What would they do with Jackson's garden . do now with the old stoee n1ill at Newport. and the campus and the grove and the brook · \ The memory of the dead, the heart throbs and the wQods the brook flows through?\ of the living, the voices of the past, the hopes of I should leave them right where they are ; it the future all detnand\ not \that Alma Mater would be difficult to tnove thern and the 1nemory · remain forever where her walls have grown of the altunni would be as the tnemory of a · gray\ but that she should take such a rank that departed friend-pleasant, yet sad for their loss, her future take precedence of her past, her pos- but in no way preventing our living and 111aking sibilities of good and future work overshadow the tnost of our opportunities for the future. even her glorious history and this can be safely Old Union has lived too long in the past, has · left to those in authority. too many old associati()ns which hamper our . F. T. RoGERS, M. D., 'So. progress. With allt~espect to Dr. Nott, there Providence, R. I., March 27, 1896. is to-day evidenced by the alumni too tnuch thought of Dr. Nott and what he said and did and not enough consideration for Dr. Raymond and \vbat he is anxious to do but cannot. Let us have at our alumni meetings promises of future work, helpful aid to the new regime in- Van Vranken, '96, represented Alpha Pi of Chi Psi at the meeting of .the ahnnni, held at the Holland House, New York City, March 16.

to THE OONO·ORDIEN:SIS. THE c~oNCORDIENSlS. 'PUBM!iHHD ON A·LTER·NAit'E WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARIJ OF EDITORS: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. WALTER L HUGGINS, '96, Business Manager. WrLLIAM H. HALL, '96, Literary Editor. Enw ARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business l\1anager. F. ~A~KARD ,PALMER, '97, 1 H. c. TODD, 97~ I H. • H. BROWN, 97, }· Assistant Editors. A. H. BIRCH, '91', I R. D. FUL~ER, '97, J. D. WooD, 97, CARL HAMMER, '98, J WILLIAM D. REED,. '98, (- P. F. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial Staff. F. Eoss, '98, ) L Me CLINTOCK, '97, t · R. VAN BEUSEKOM, f Medical College. E. S'. BROWN, TERMS, SING-LE COPIES, Law School. '$2 60 PER YF.AR, IN ADVANCE. 15 CENTS. Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Bo:x: 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to Inake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office .at Schenectady; N.Y., as !'lecond-class matter. OHAS. BURROW1 1 PRINTER ANO BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. All subscribers whose subscriptions are still uap&id will find a blue mark on this paragraph, signifying tha.t a. prompt remittance will be g;reatly appreciated. OuR readers win recognize the name of Mr. .John T. Mygatt, '58, the writer of the leading article of this issue. Mr. Mygatt is well known as one of Union's prominent alutnni in New York City, and it was he who composed the Union CoHege Centennia'l March which met with success . at th6l Centennial exercises last June . IT IS with exceeding r~gret that the attention of many subscribers of 'l'HE CONCORDIENSIS is again called to the fact that their subscription is due in . advance, and the request must be made that they give this matter their immediate consideration. . . Without the article called ''cash\ we cannot get out a good paper,. and .the studeli1ts' subscriptions are far in arrea:rs. This is the beginning of the terrr1, when everybody is supposed to have tnoney, and :an early setUem·ent of your ·subscription will • be greatly app·reciated. WE no not consider it out ~f place to correct : the error n1ade by Mr. Ward, of .AJbany, in one of · · his speeches, (an error that has been circulated by · several newspapers,) when he said that the faculty were una:r1dmouslJ in favor of rernoving the college to Albany. Upon inquiry a1nong the ~acuity we have learned that they ;have taken no formal ac.tion whatever upon tl'te Inatter, nor do they consider that it bas anything to do with them at all, but is a rnatter for the trnstees alone to discuss. 'Their position is strict'l:r non-connnittal and when otherwise stated is wJ,thout authority. ' ENGLISH FICTION is the nante· .o:f a new course that has been started in :rnany coUeges very lately. This ~course is :rneeting with unbounded success, especially at Yale. G-reat nove!J,s of the day, by famous A:rnerican and European authors, are read and diseussed and the privilege of commenting and passing criticisn1 upon them before an instruc- tor is :rnost interesting and beneficial. The student is .. given ·every opportunity for reading standard works of fiction and itt this way be is able to develop a taste for good literature that will last a lifetime. We hope in ;the near future to see such ·a, course instituted at Old Union, for we are sure that it will1neet witk a well-deserved success. FoR SOME reason there was a ve11y great d.elay in sending out the reports of the students for the winter term ; no one received hls report until he had been back for nearly a week. Perhaps there is .some very good reason why this delay occurred, but the rnlllor is that it was caused entirely by two or three members of the faculty who were so very slow in ~ending in their rna~ks. Certain it is that the Registrar is not to blame, for she ·worked all the vacation, but was unable to coin- plete he1· work because of some one's slowness. We are taught to have things dolle promptly and on time; but now we n1ust protest about the backwardness of certain instructors. And we make this protest because it js unfair to the students, to the rest of the facul:ty, and to the whole college .

of by to y. is at re it d THE CONOORDIENSIS. 1: DURING these balmy spring days Union's athletes are by no means :.:esting on past 1 laure1s. The base-ball 1nen are going through their daily ! p:racti.ce with great earnestness, and a good teain is bound to be the result of such reguiar and con~- , :scientious work. Outdoor practice is now in . order, .and the canipus will soon be in first rate condition again. Union's base-baH prospects a1~e . .surely as bright as they ever were, and an exce:1- ]ent teatn will no doubt be put in the field this · season. Our track athletes, also, seen1 ~to be · going about their work in the proper spirit. Cross-country runs are now being tal(en every day, and will be continued until the track is in fit condition to work on. As soon as it is each n1an will then pay n1ore attention to his individual · event. The runs are a valuable agent by which many good athletes are developed, and to a n1an who intends to do regular training throughout the spring they are of inestimable valne. Our track team should be even better than it has ever been before, and ·we have no doubts that it wilL IT IS encouraging to note that while Union's representative at the Inter-Collegiate Oratorical contest did not win the prize, he acquitted himself with great credit. The Rocheste1· papers a'll adrnit that the subject n1atter of Mr. Allen's oration was superior to either of the other two, :tm.t that he lost the contest by a lack of proper oratorical training. This is the second time that Union has lost the contest 1nerely because her representative was deficient in his delivery, and should it not impress upon the· authorities the importance of more work in oratory during the college course? At present nearly all that one gets to help him in his delivery is what he obtains outside through personal effort. The college gives but little aid in this line, and consequently we have few good speakers a1nong the students. To be a good speaker is a result that one should strive after, and it will be especially appreciated in after life, when one goes out into the world. IT IS with the greatest of pleasure that we hail the revival of the course of Butterfield lectures. For the past three years these lectures have been one .of the finest courses in the college curriculum; and besides this they have given Union a repu- tation away from home, for all have looked with envy upon the list of speake1·s that have b~en gathered together. And well they Inight; for it. seldom occurs that the same audience is permitted to hear so n1any Inen of national repu~ tation, and such wide and pl~act,ical experi~ence in the lines upoB which tht>y speak. The college is certainly thankful to the :founder ()f this course, ·Gen. Bu tte:rfield ; by his energetie efforts he is bestowing upon his college a gift of inestiinable value. Nor .should the student body lose sight of the profit that Inay be gained in this. way. A Inere glance at the list of lectu:r.ers that have already appeared is sufficient to Ina1·k thein as the most representative n1en irr the country on these subjects. The object expressed at the time of founding the course was to give the students of Union college an oppol'tnnity to hear the fi:rst 1nen in the nation speak upon the thernes with which they had had the n1ost exper,ience. It was to be a practical lecture course, and it has cer- tainly fulfiUed the end designed for it; for there i~s a vast a1nount of inst1·uction to be gained by listening to n1en who have made an e1ninent suc- ~ess of life; and it is to such 1nen that Union students have been pernlitted to listen. Another va[uable feature in conaecbion with this course is the offering of prizes for the best essay written on each lecture. As 1nany students as :possible should try for these prizes, for the very taking of notes and writing of essays help to derive the greatest am.ount of good from the lectures. The students are certainly to be congratulated upon this won- derful opportunity extended to the1n by- the kind- ness of Gen. Butter·field, and it on!ly re111ains for thent to Inake the ntost of it. It has been definitely settled that Union is to send a teatn to take part in the relay race car- nival which occurs April 25, at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, under the auspices of the U niver- sity of Pennsylvania. Union has several fast tnen for the distance that each tnan will run, the quarter-tnile, and she ought to win her heat. easily. She has been tnatched against Atnherst, Massachusetts Institute of Te~hnology and Worchester Polytechnic Institute. The pre- liminary contest to pick the four men to repre- sent Union will be held shordy. Among those who are in training and who intend to try for the tea1n are Kilpatri-ck, '98, Sands, '98, Taylor, '96, O'Neill, '97, Cregan, '99, French, '99, . Bradt, '99, and Wright, '99. Work is now being taken every day which consists of light exercise in the gytnnasium, followed by a short

12 THE CONOORDIENSIS. cross-country run. As soon as the track is in condition, training will be begun on that. It will be retnen1bered that last spring Union •. had a dual rneet with the University of Cali- fornia. The latter is again conteruplating the Inatter of sending another tearn east this spring, and if she does., another tneet is pretty sure to : be arranged. The following letter will show with what :regard the California athletes hold · Union n1en :- TV. L. Terry, Manager. DEAR SIR:- ~i . ~~ ~ Mr. Nye has returned fmm a trip to various (Gi1 places in western New York. ;;) Judge Herrick began a series of special lectuTes last Thursday on Municipal Law. He ·: is a ;master of this branch of the law, and his lectuTes a1·e adtnira ble ones. T:11e Moot Court held on the roth inst. was a Yom:s of the 4th inst. at h.and to-day. ' pleasing change frorn those held heretofore, in Yes, we ai~e endeavoring to coutpletean·angements . that H consisted of a trial instead of an argumeNt. for an easteTn trip this spring but I seriously doubt whether we shall go farther east than . The jury consisted of twelve unusually intelligent Chicago and its hnmediate vicinity. However, I · looking men, \\V ho gave vety strict attention to am pleased to receive your proposal and shou1d . the evidence. The case was well tried by both we go to J'lew York I should endeavor to arrange sides. Battershall conducted the case for plain- a dual meet with Union. Our visit to Schenec- tiff and Oliver for the defendant. W. G. Brown tady last year is our most p1easant men101'Y of our trip to the east and I an1 sure, that at least the . old 1nen of last year's tea1n, would heartily favor another 1neasure of athletic strength w\ith Union's athletes. I shall inform you of our decision as soon as any decisjon at all is reached. Sincerely yours, Lours T . .MERWIN, Track Capt., U. C. 586 20th Street, Oakland, California,. [NOTE.-AH we go to press we learn that Mana_ger Terry has ·arranged a meet for May 16.] l\1iss Casey, of Auburn, N. Y., visited her brother, A. 0. Casey, '99, before the close of the winter term. Capt. Sullivan began outdoor practice with the base-ball team for the first time on last Thursday afternoon. W. L. Sawyer, '95, M. H. Strong, '96 and W. E. Brown, '99, attended a wedding at Hudson, on :April 8. Manager Terry, of the athletic tearn, l1as re- ceived an invitation from the 23rd Regiment, of Brooklyn, to send a relay team to compete in their indoor meet on March 18. In mathematics the Latin Scientific anJ Classical divisions of '99 ha\re taken up Trigo- nometry. The Scientific and Engineering divisions have Analytic Geotnetry. and A ulls figured as Medical experts, to the evident satisfaction of their respective counsel. Messrs. Burke, Danaher and Mosher, who acted · as witnesses, had their stories well learned, and proved themselves, upon cross-exatnination, to be incapable of falsehood. The snn11ning up was deferred for one week. 'I'he Moot Court held on March zo, was one of the most interesting of the year. 1Ylr. Sawyer, in the absence of his associate, Mr. Lee, ably conducted the case for the appellants. Mr. Nye in his initnitable way opened the argutnent for the respondent, which was supplemented by Mr. Mosher, with forcible and convincing argu- tnent. The opinion, delivered by Mr. Aulls, was a 1nost creditable effort; his bursts of fiery eloquence completely captivated the spectators, . and even the dignified court was forced to admit that the days of Websterian oratory have not passed. Vosburgh, '96, Frey, '97 and Dillenbeck, '99, spents the vacation at their homes in Palatine Bridge, N. Y. Dr. Wells began yesterday his annual course of lectures on current history. J::Iis subject was '' The American School and Students in the Athens of To-day,\

s l · THE CONCORDfENSIS. 13 £oeal aQd p((rSOI]al. Cook, '99, has left college. Sinclair, '98, is visiting his brother in Chicago. Prof. Pepper spent the vacation in New York. Guernsey, '99, spent the vacation at Broadal- . bin. Haviland, '98, spent the vacation in Glens . Falls. Prof. Buck spent the vacation in Boston, . Mass. Sawyer, '95, was visiting fi·iends on tile hill . last week. Lawrence, '99, spent the vacation with friends . in Buffalo. Pruyn, '99, was at his hotne in Albany during · the vacation. Sotnmer, '96, spent the vacation at his ho1ne . in Tonawanda. Perkins, '9~, spent the vacation at his hotne in Lyme, Conn. French, '99, spent the vacation at his horne in Binghatnton. Cross-country runs, captained by Sands, are now taken daily. Wilson, '99, after an extended illness, is again in college. Bray, '99, has returned to college after six weeks of illness. Prof. Opdyke spent the vacation in Plainfield, N. ]., his hotne. '99 will hav·e English history under Dr. Ripton this tenn. Pildain, '97, spent the vacation with Beattie, 'g6, at Middletown. Prof. Edwards spent the. vacation at his hotne in Riverhead, N. Y. H. H. Brown, '97, was in Boston and vicinity during the vacation. Little, '97, vvas at his hotne in Rochester during the vacation. . Fuller, '97, has returned fron1 a recent visit to Kalatnazoo, Mich. Prof. James L. DeLong, '88, of Jolon, Cal., was on the hill last week. Wright, '99, spent the vacation with his cousins at Oneonta, N. Y. Prof. Truax was in New York for a few days during the spring election. Van Wormer, '99, spent the vacation at his horne in DannsviNe, N. Y. Lord, '99, and Lamphere, '99, spent the vacation in Lowvi!Be, N. Y. Sotn01:er, 'g8, spent the Easter vacation at his hotn:e in Tonawanda, N. Y. Gage, '99, spent the vacation with his grand- parents at Job nstown, N. Y. The relay tearn to represent Union at the U. of P. meet will be chosen April 18. Kilpatrick, '98, acted as best man at a wed- ding in Winstead, Mass., last week. Griffith, '98, spent the Easter vacation with friends in New York and Brooklyn. T. B. Brown, '98, on account of ill health, has left college for the present term. Johnston, ex-' 95, expects to enter college next fall in order :to finish his course. M. A. Twiford spent part of the vacation at Sandy Hill, as the guest of A. S. Derby. Prof: Landreth was in Eltnira during the vacation, exatnining its drainage system. Dr. R. A. Lanter, Med., '95, house physician of the Albany Hospital, was in town. Easter. Hayes, '97, has recovered frorn his recent illness, and expects to return to college soon. Multer, '97, and Hornsby, '90, sp~nt a part of the vacation with friends at Oneonta, N. Y. Prof. Landreth has finished a piece of water works engineering fo1~ the city of Binghamton. Parsons, '98, Baker, 'g8, and McKeefe, '98, spent the vacation at their homes in Plattsburgh, N.Y. • Van Vranken attended the meeting of the Holland Soci·ety, at Sherry's~ New York City, on April 6. Prof. John Van Schaick, Jr., '94, prinoipnl of the Union Free School, of Sharon Springs, has resigned. Dr. Raymond visited the Northwestern Alun1ni Association during the last week of the · winter term. Dr. Perkins gave his final examinations to the students .of the Medical college on Thurs- . day, April 9· Botner I. Williams, '92, has been admitted to the bar and is now practicing law at Freder- icktown, Md.

• 14 -ADVERTISEMENTS. -- PATRONIZE 0 UR ADVERTISERS. Rev. Dr. Montgotnery Schuyler, dean of • Christ Church, of St. Louis, died March I 8 .. Dr. Schuyler was born in New York City in . r8r4, and graduated from Union in the dass of. 1834· He stud·i:ed law, and engaged in business • for several years, but then entered the university . of the Episcopal church. Dr. Schuyler had . been for 38 years president of the standing com- . tni:Uee of the diocese of ~lissouri. BT===· ·. ===E==N==O==G==R===A===P==H==Y=. ~-~· ~K~ DICTATION TAI~EN A·ND · ! NOTES TYPE;WRITTEN. ORATIONS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COPIED. B. E. HUGGINS, 22M. S. S.C • .ALTJ WORK 00NFIDEN'1'IAJ,, CHAUNCEY FRENCH. WILLIAM R. FOX. (Successors to VossTJER & Nellis). 83 N. S. S.C. The Union College Book Exchange still continues to receive orders for all kinds of No Guesswork About Columbias The Department of Tests of the Pope Manufacturing Com- pany, with its Emery Testing Machine of 100,000 Ibs. capacity, has no superior, even amq_ng the Govern- .ment testing stations. Expert Engineers and MetaUurgists watch everything that enters into Columbia con- struction. There are no untried devices in the Columbia. That is why ~ ~ $ ~ ~ Columbia Bicycles are Standard of the World ArtCatalogueof POPE. MFG CQ fifty pages for · · · .·· · · · + • ~7a~ 2 ~~~nt .}) ~ Hartford, Conn. March 19, 1896. Our stock for Spring and Summer of 1896 is now ready in all departments. Text Books, Fountain Pens, Engineer's & Draughtsmen's Supplies. Tablets, Pencils, I Beside the usual standard goods it will ·. contain many .seasonable novelties. nks and Second Hand Books always ·kept in stock. . . I I fHE LATEST THING IN \UNION\ STATIONERY JUST RECEIVED. ' ompare our prices with those of tl1e city book stores and giv~ us a trial. FAIR TREATMENT TO A.LL. Brooks Brothers, Broadway, cor. 22d St., CLOTHING AND FURNISH- } ING GOODS READY MADE .A:ND :MADE TO 1\UllASURlll, New York City. ;:: =

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1[) GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNION. In the spring handicap games at the University of Bennsylvania we are pi eased to note that L . . J. Lane, '98~ won third place in the half mile run frotn scratch, the winner having a handicap of 50 yards. At the Inter-Scholastic ~feet, hekl at the Centre Street Opera House, March 2'7, the fol- lowing Union rnen were officials: Referee, Dr. Linhart; announcer, W. A. Campbell, '96; stader, Kilpatrick, '98 ; judge, Dillingham, '88 ; tim·ers, Sand, '98. Prof. Hoffrnan spent his vacation in New EJ:OJ:3:::::tvJ:\ON'D . York; next y.ear be will take advantage of the Straigb. t 01.:l t N 0 1. . recent regulations of the trustees whereby a professor n1ay hav·e a leave of absence for one O.iga:rettes. year after having served as a professor ten years, Ci·garette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. Thi~ .is the Old and Original Brand of Straigb.t Cut Cigarettes, .and was brought out by us in the year I875. BiEW ARE OF IMITATIONS, and observt:: that the firm name as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, rfhe -American rfobacco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~Y~ CITY ~r~ TROUSER.S ~~ CO., •• ~ __ E_. _F_. _D_A_L,_Y_. __ ~. FiN1 CuSTOM' TAlloRIHQ. ~uits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4; Up. ;Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a postal caTd and our representative (C. E. HENNESY} will call. 149 80. GEN'rRE S'T'R E;ET'. Next door to Barhydt House. and he will go abroad, devoting tnost of his time to philosophical study in Berlin. At the tneeting of the Adel phic society, held last Fr,iday, the following was the subject of discussion: Resolve-d, That the aggressive policy of Great Britain in America during the present century has been in accord with the higher interests of civilization. The affirmative · was supported by Guernsey, '96, Myers, '96, Nelson, '9S; the negative by Dann, '96, Swan, '98, Vrooman, 'g8. COAL.___; \'-----COAL •. BUY YOU:R GOAL OF W. P. CARNSEY, * COAL.~ Office, 433 State Stree• Yard, 229 Park Place. ~ COAL. ~A. BRO-w-N & S·ON,~ FURNITURE AND BEDDING ~ ALL~NDS ~FOR® STUDENTS® USE. THE O:LDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

16 THE ·OONCORDIEN~SIS.. ... ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED E\Y OUR A.DVERTlH.E'Rd·. - -- -- -~ ------- ---- ----- BASE-BALL. -The students who intend ' playing base-ball this season can secure catchers' tnitts, fielde,r's gloves, ball shoes and other base- hall supplies frotn Hegeman, '99, who repre- sents B.ulbert Bros. & Co., of New York, dealers in all kinds of Athletic and Gymnasiutn goods. Besides the san1ples of base- hall goods he has also sarnp1es of sweaters, r11nniug pants, running shoes, s:h irts, etc. The fellows shou1d look at his san1ples and order their athletic goods fron1 hin1. ~~ ~·-- ~! I EMPIRE I . STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 JAY ST·REET I . WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per te:rm, strictly )J) in advance. ~ - - - ............................................................................................................................................................................................. ~ .. - ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... .................................................... u ............................................................................................................................................... .. - - - - - 1 ~9 WALL ST., Opp. Post Office. The largest and finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. WIL'LIA:M DOB'E,R:MAN,N, --- GATERE:R 'FrOR--- -wEDDINGS, ..... ~ · 8U:PPERS, ETC. V ARIETT OF ICE CREAM AND I C.ES CONSTA:N'JPLY ON HAND . • • • • FRIED OYSTEI{S $2: PEJt liUNDl{ED. . . . ·• (04 !!2· 1 06 WALL STREET. Oyster Stew i'n Pail to take Ho1ne~ 2/; .cents. Oyster en• Olam Fry in a Bo~, Ito ~e~ts. =

--------ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 17 READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. • • • • f:QR FOR SALE. TO :LEASE. . . MANUFACTORLES ~~ AND DWELLINGS: Dwelling Houses and Flat~ Excelle1lily Located, Adapted to Small Fa1ttilies. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union College. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONC ISLAN'D CITY.

18 -- ADVERTI:SEJMENTB. -- LET OOR ADVERTISERS KNOW YOU ARE COL,LE:GE M:EN WHEN DEALING WITH THEM. • J 0::: 0 -~ H ~ b 0 z -~ 0 ~­ w ~ lil ~ b I. LEVINE, ii ~ I F:QUNTAIN PENS,~~---·~==---- ~ tr:1 UN:ION COLLEC'E ~ > !Jj r Q M ()) r-3 (/) ~ 0 0 ~ ~ SOVVEN:IR s,PQONS, ' . ' ' ' ' ' ~ FLAG .PINS, ET'C. · S,A N :D·'E RS' cJEWELE RS, 233 S'T'A'T'E 81\. SCHENE:C1ADI. N. Y BAitliY'Tl~ & l) l~VI~N PECI{, . . . . •. Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Van C·urler Opera, House Block. LOWEST PRICES. ======== ,; ee}lL -:- JlNB -:- Weon BtJFYLE & SON,~ * E!l<iRAVERS, * Coal,. Lime, Cement, Plaster., Hair,. :: Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, : 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, I SCHENECTADY. N. Y. --~ALBANY, N.Y .. 1 · Y. M. c. A.~~====-- • AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dressing • ~tc ~E~JF:RU~fiNJF, jte+ . _ ___:::::::_===-==-CoR. STATE AND FEBRY STs. Opp. Edison Hotel (up stairs.} , ~~e6t 1-inner in the ~~ity flor 24i ~~ent~. tTSE A. SCHMIDT'S ''EW 'D· ISCQ- vf'~V roe THf' R&lft,_ .· ~Meal Tickets will be .sold to Students only ....•• 61 ldV I \ i Q ~ ...... for $3.00 for 21 Tickets. A certain cure for Dandruff, Scalp • and Skin- Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. . WILSON DAVIS, .... Of aU kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. ·Full lines of Leading Makes of ..•.. <eam~ras, :Dry plat~s ai]d <eard £)toe~ •· At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. <:lEO .• H. Q\IARJ)JNEER, Successor to J. N. McDonald. M}JR.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 54:4 Broadway, Albany, N. Y ·· 237 STATE S· .... ScHENECTADY N. Y.

~ ·, f THB G®NG®RDIENSIS. VoL. XIX. Although we have so very little definite know }.edge of the origin and constitution of cotnets, these wanderers through space, each and every one, attract So:tne attention when they con1e within reach of our vision. While all that were visihle during the past year had sotne unusual peculiarities, none w·ere exceptionally peculiar. All being too faint to attract the naked eye, not one was in itself of interest to the gen- eral public, but were made of special interest through their threatened proximity to the earth · as predicted by the newspapers, always seeking sensations. During 1895 there were visible, at one time or another, six comets. At first glance this may seem a goodly nurnber, but considering the fact that two were well known periodic comets, · a third altnost certainl_y old, and that nine rnonths elapsed, between Nove1nber 20, '94 and August . 20, '95, without the discovery of one, we readily see that there was a paucity of co1nets. Taking thetn in order of discovery, the first was Encke's periodic con1et, rediscovered by Cerulli at Terarno, Novernber 1, 1894· It has a period of 371 years, the shortest known, and has been observed at nearly every perihelion passage for the last 125 years. It passed perihe- lion this time on February 7, 1895, and -is too well known to need further tnention. The next comet was discovered by Edward Swift on Novetnber zo, 1894, and is by far the most interesting one visible during r895, be- cause of its probable identity with De Vico's comet of r844· As soon as a preliminary com- putation had been n1ade, the close resemblance of the two orbits was generally re1narked. Prof. Schulhof in particular presented con- siderations which made plausible the hypothesis of identity. In view, however, .of the numerous close family resemblances among the periodic No. 14. con1ets, it i!S possiible to distinguish between sirnilarity and identity in this case only by actual co1nputation of the principal pianetary pertur- bations. U.ta.fortunately the com:et was so faint, that it was with extrem,e difficulty that Prof. Barnard, w~th the great Lick telescope, ob- served it two months after discovery. Right . here arises an important question which is puzzling astrono1ners. How has the comet lost . its brightness·? De Vico's comet of r844 is de- scribed as very brilliant and was seen in broad daylight. Observations, as difficult to obtain as they were in this ,case and ext·ending over a period of only 68 days, do not suffi·ce to determine an or- bit with enough precision to tnake the accurate computation of perturbations, but DL Chandler has made an approximation of the efl'ects of Jupiter upon the comet during their proximity in r884 and 1886. The transfonnations back- wards, to what they were before sensible pertur- bation began in r884, were such as to leave but small changes to have been tuade in the eletnents by the more distant passages in the preceeding · 40 years. As on the next two returns the con1et will be very unfavorably situated for observation, it will probably never be seen again unless it re- gains sotne of its former brightnesf. The third, Comet a J895, was discovered by Lewis Swift on August 20, and was too faint, even at its brightest, for most observers with · telescopes of r 2 inches aperture. It was re- markable for its exceedingly sn1all and peculiar motion. At the time of discovery it was moving slowly northward, on Septen1ber 5, it turned southward, and on October 28 it again mov:ed northward. lt had a continuous eastward mo- tion but very slow,- only 5~ seconds per day in the middle of October and less than 5 tninutes for the whole month. It was a striking contrast to the tretnendous movements of the tnore re- cent cotnets discovered by Perrine and Brooks

4 THE OONCORDIENSIS. of which the naaxitnatn daily rnotions were 19 .· fact, it was the remotest of recent cotnets. On and 27 tninutes respectively. March 14, when we were to collide with Per- The fourth, Faye's periodic cotnet, was found rine's last cornet, it was over 90 million n1iles by Javelle at Nice on Septen 1 her 2 6. Its orbit . away, but on February 24 was within 40 tnillion is so well known that the position on its return tniles. ·The nearest approach of any recent con1et was predicted very closdy. Although its nearest was early in D·ecember when Brooks' was only approach to the earth was a: few days before re- .. 20 million miles away, and had it passed its as- discovery and maxitn um brightness a few days · cending node two weeks later the distance would later, it did not pass periheHon until March 19 , have been little tnore than 2 million miles, closer 1 8 9 6. than any on record. When, as the subiect ·of The co~nets discovered bv Perrine and Brooks · a newspaper sensation, a writer chooses the on November r 7 and 21 ,\' respectively, being .• tnost distant comet as an object of itnpending · d ·· danger and passes the nearest without a word, non-period1c, are of no special interest asi . e .. from their before rnentioned unusual tnotions. he shows great ignorance of the subject as well A h · f .1· b h · 'bl 1 · as a low motive. t t e tune o u1scovery ot were VIS•l· e on y . in the morning. The fonner n1oving eastward ; by the sun became an evening object on De- cember r6. At the sa1ne time, having in- . creased to over 8o tirnes its original brightness, it was visible to southern observers in broad · daylight. It soon returned northward, re- passed the sun, and on January r r, r896, again became a moving object. (It was while search- ing for this comet that Perrine discovered the one which, according to Prof. Soenschner, was to collide with the earth on March 1 4·) Brooks' con1et also soon became an evening object, but in the opposite way from Perrine's, by tnoving westward and northward away frotn the sun. In less than a month it tnoved frotn 6o degrees south to z6 degrees north of the zenith, passing unusually near to the pole. It was large but diffuse and hard to observe. Its orbit presents a striking resemblance to that of the bright comet of r652. It is possible that they are identical but more probably had a com1non . . ong1n. In closing a few words relative to the earth's \' narrow escapes\ frorn a collision with these cotnets may be acceptable. In the first '' scare\ Faye'8 comet was taken as the object threatening our destruction. A long newspaper .article was concluded by saying that the co1net was on time as predicted, but the earth was behind time. Actually the comet at its nearest was about 140 million miles away, and by placing the earth any supposable an1ount ahead or·behind, its dis- tance would still be nearly 100 million 111iles. In ARTHUR J. RoY, '93· Grae~ fltl]leties. 1\·ack athletics have taken quite a bootn since the meet was arranged with the University of California, and the tnen are now training with tnore earnestness than was displayed at the beginning of the season. The track is rapidly getting in good condition, and the n1en are tak- ing advantage of that, and have abandoned the campus. Hard and regular work is now being taken daily by the candidates for the tea1n, and Union ought to tnake a good showing against the Westerners. The date for the meet with the U. of C. has been settled as May I 6, and it is being debated whether to hold it at Albany or S'?henectady. The points will count as they did last year-five for first place and two for second. The Cali- fornians have a stronger team than they did last spring, but Union also has a stronger one, and hopes to surprise them when the time con1es. This will be the first meet the U. of C. men will have in the East, and the result will be · watched for with much concern. The te~un will arrive here a few days in advance and will train with the Union athletes while here. A reception will probably be given them, as was done last year. The annual spring meet, to choose the men who will represent Union in the meet on May 16 will be held a week earlier at the Schenec- tady Driving Park. The events will be the sa1ne as always.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 5 The annual concert of the Musical Associa- tion was. g~iven at the Van Curler, Monday evening, April zo, before a large and appre- . ciative audience. This is the second season that Union has been represented by ~musical clubs that ra:nk with any otl~er college organiza- tions in til'le :country, and much ~credit is due to the efficient rnanagement and leadership which has brought out such good resuJts. A n1ost co1nrnendable feature of the concert was the variety in the program. Several pleas- ing innovations were introduced, and the selec- tions rendered by the rr1andolin and banjo clubs were well chosen fron1 classiiC cotn posers and happily interspersed by popular rnarches. The Glee Club was a decided i tnprovetnent over last years', and meet with a hearty reception frotn the audience. In the opening ntunber on the program the college clubs were assisted by the Ladies City Mandolin Club with a tnost pleasing effect. Atter the third number, Fairly Caught, ren- dered by the Freshtnen Quartette, a bold Sopho- mo.re was heard to say, \ Good Frosh,\ in a most appTeciative tone, which with hearty ap- plause fully voiced the sentitnent of the audience. The second part of the program seen1~ed to be even better than the first, but that impression was probably due to its pleasing variety, and to such especially good nurnbers as Mr. McMahon's solo, the selection by the College Quartette, the fine execution of the Cradle song by the Man- dolin Club and last but not least the extretnely unique and comical musical sketch, Romeo and Jutiet pt~esented by Messrs. MacMahon, Heinz and Beattie. The progratn was as follows : PART 1. King Cotton, Mandolin Clubs. (a) Unioa beside the Mohawk Vale, 0. E. B~ranklin, '83 (b) Simple Simon, .F. C. Macy ~Glee Club. Adeste Fideles, Arranged by O'Neill Mandolin Club. Freshman Quartet-Fairly Caught. Messrs . G-reen, Hinman, MacMahon, Eames. (a) Polish Dance, (b) Tabasco, Mandolin Club. Honey 1\.foon March, Banjo Cllil b. Ba-a Ba-a Black Sheep, . Glee Club. PART 2. Creole Love Song, Glee Club. Ba11 jo Solo-· Selected. F. C . MacMahon. Quartet-Selected . :TXT ' ' k\ ,r.,B~n~aws ~ Chadwick Rosey Wishe S1nith Messrs. Talbot, Green, HHd. MacMahon. (a) Cradle Song, Hause<~~ (b) 8weet and Low, B,arnby Mandolin Olttb. R01neo and Juliet . Messrs. l\1acMahon, Heinz, Beattie. Flemish Dance, B enheur Banjo Club. (a) Terrace Song, Fitz H~tgh Ludlow, '56 Beattie and G-lee Club. (b) Drinking Song. (c) Song to Old Union, . Fitz H1.tghLudlow, '56 The following ladies acted as patronesses : Mrs. A. V. V. Raytnond, Mrs. B. H. Ripton, Mrs. J. S. Landon, Mrs. H. P. McQ!.teen, 1\1rs. L. Westinghouse, Mrs. J. W. Smitley, Mt:s. W. Wells, Mrs. M. Perkins, Mrs. T. W. Wright, Mrs. W. Latnoroux, Mrs. J. R. Truax, Mrs. W. T. Hanson, Mrs. H. V. Mynderse, Mrs. J. K. Paige, Mrs. J. D. L. Watkins, Mrs. W. E. Walker, Mrs. H. A. Miller, Mrs. R. Landon, Mrs. C. S. Prosser, Mrs. C. P. Linhart, Mrs. J. H. Stoller, Mrs. J. F. Patter- son, Mrs. E. E. Hale, Jr., Mrs. 0. H. Landreth, Mrs. H. T. Mosher, Mrs. H. P. Cutnmings, Mrs. E. H. Winans, Mrs. S. G. Asbtnore. Obituary--D. p. t,iayes, '35· 'I'he Hon. D. A. Hayes died in Cohoes Thursday, April 23. He \\vas born in Chathatn, Columbia county, in 18r5, and graduated with high honors in the class of r835 at Union. He moved to Dayton, Ohio, in 1836, where he was admitted to the bat. He attained high distirtction as a judge of the Superior Court, where he served 25 years, or until he resigned to attend to his large private business. He gave up practice in 1888, on account of a slight stroke of apoplexy.

6 THE OONCORDIENSrS. \ , . . coUeges are represented in the club, and the · haU rang with. various cheers and yeUs from the The Musical Association clubs followed their ! 'm:erry crowd. The Boys left the royal festivi- concert in Schenectady, by appearing in Albany . vi:ties widt gi~eat reluctance, just in tim~e to Wednesday evening' April zzd,, in the popular ' take the ~ o'clock train for Schenectady. They Music HaH in the Odd Fellows' building. The 1 will long remember the cordial hospitality of the hom·e concert was considered a very creditable . Fort Orange Cfub, e:ffered them on this occasion, performance, and t:he lTletnhers of the clu h . and ever hold ~ts tnemhers in deepest esteetn fo1· exerted their best efforts to make it a success , theh· indiv1dt.lal kindness. but the concert in the capital city must be con~ 11 . The pab~()nesses of the concert were: · d d · . . .. : Mrs. J. Y. L. Pruyn, Mrs. William P. Rudd, Sl ere· a surpasstng one. It is true that this is : Mrs. :Erastus •Oorn:ing, Mrs. Frederick E. Wadhams, due partly to the fact that it followed the Sche- : M~·s. Ahmham Lansing, Mrs . .John H. Day, nectady concel·t ·but 't . t ,· Mrs. J. Howar<l King, Mrs . .Jacob H. TenEyck, · · · , · · ~ was 1n a grea er ~measure ·; Mrs. Frederick Te-wnsend~ M d t th 1 11 1 rs. Frederick W. Cameron, · ue o •. e 1a ·. , t1e acoustic prope~·ties of which :~ Mrs. Hamilton Harris, Mrs. Albert v. Bense:n, are almost P· erfect d tl t1 .. ~ .... · 11 . !• Ml·s. Alden ?hester, Mrs. Charles Andrews, . . . ' ~n le lOioug 1 Y appH~- i Mrs. Frederick. Ha1·ris, Mrs. JolmBoyd Thatcher, ctahve audience whtch greeted the clubs there. Mrs. Amasa J. Parker, .Jr. The audience was an especially delightful one, , [ectur(( by Dr. UJ~Hs. Dr. Will:iar:n Wells began his regular course .of popular lectures on the second Tuesday of the ten11. His subject for the course is to be '\The St()ry of the Canadas.\ But as is custotnary for the first lecture the doctor chose as they expressed their appreciation with tnuch : hearty applause which inspired the boys with i confidence and prompted their best endeavors ... • The clubs appeared and retired with unusuai activity and grace which kept up the life of tlte · performance, a fact for which they were highly , commended. The Glee Club as usual was • the principal source of attraction, but the Banjo Club acquitted itself so adtnirably that it was in especial favor. T•he appearance ofthese two clubs in the ''Creole Love Song\ was a hit, and it was exceptionally rendered. To show how popular was the Mandolin Club, it is only necessary to say that they cou]d have used more music to great advantage. The concert was closed by the appearance of the three dubs who sang together the \ Song to Old Union \ with a rousing good cheer in the end. • a subject ()f passing interest. He spoke of \Greece and the Greek Athletes.\ In a few words he gave a very graphic description of the . scenes in Greece as they are to-day. He . compared ancient with modern Gt·eece and the , ancient Greek games with the modern. H:e The members ofthe association repaired to the home of the Fort Orange Club, which. was open to them for the evening. A very amusing entertainment had been ar- ranged by the club for that evening, and the Union boys enjoyed it hugely. At its close the entertainment hall was cleared, and the tables spread for the tnost agreeable part of the reception. To say that our boys enjoyed themselves doesn't half express it, and the Fort Orange's found it peculiarly delightful to listen to the music furnished by our clubs while they ate their refreshtnents. JYiost of the easte1·n · then described at sorne length the collisetnn where the games were held and expressed great pleasure because the race from Marathon to Athens was. won by a Greek youth. psi lJ. Da QGe. . The Psi Upsil~n fraternity gave a s1nall danc- lng party at _their house on Friday evening, Ap~d I 7, y; h1~h pro~ed to be a 1nost enjoyable affa1r. Gto.scJa of Albany furnished the music. A1nong the ladies present were Miss Herrick of Albany and fron1 the ~ity were Mrs. Patterson, Mrs. Moshe1·, Mrs. Pnce and the Misses Walker :Beattie, Hunter, Kosboth, Price, Watkins: Johnson, Madge Campbell Clute Sykes Rachel Yates,. Susan Yates, Dot~a Yates: Ostro1n, Veeder, Barker.

THE '00NOORDIEN:SIS. 7 [Owing to a mistake this article was ·(}mitted from our last ; 'The Union rela..y t:eatn covered itself with issue.] glory at the relay earnival held by the University The annual catalogue of Union University for of Pennsylvania at Franklin Field, Philadelphia, its one hundred and first year appeared jus:t at , last Saturday aften1oon.. The team consisting the close of last term. By it :there are registered .• of L. F. ~O'Neil, '9.7, George Sands, '9.8, W. in the Senior class, 42; in tbe Junior, 43; in th.e So 1 nmer, '98, andJ. Cr·egan, '99, was matched Sopho1nore, 66; ·in the Freslunan, 84; and as ir- · against the teatn:s fro1n Amherst, Worcester regular students., 18-· making a total of 253 in • Polytechnic Instih1te and Massachusetts Institute the College department. Ther.e a·re 2oo registered . of Technology and was beaten by the last named in the Medical department .. ;. 67 in the Law . tean1 by the narrow tnargin of about six inches. school ; and 49 ia the school of Pharn1acy. 'This . The titne of the winning teatn was 3 min. 37 makes a total of 569 students in the University· sec., the :third best of any of the races, and had The board of trustees, facuity and faculty Kilpatrick cotnpeted Union would have had a con11nittees are, as always, given, and the walkover. courses of study are laid out with 1nore tninute- The first quarter was run for Union by Cre- ness than usuaL A noticeable feature of the . gan, and he and :Elliott of An1herst finished book is the increased requirements for admis- closely together. S omtner took the handkerchief sion. These requirements wiU also be increased for Union and finis1hed the half a good second to each year until 1898 after which they will re- Morgan of Am hers it with Penn of the Massa- tnain pennanent. The work of each departtnent chusetts Institute of Technology a good third. is tnade so clear that one in iooking over the The third quarter started with O'Neil of Union catalogue can easily see what is to be required fast after McAUis o-f A,tnherst. He caught him of him. The amount of work that is expected and finished first vvith Cummings, the Massa- of the student has also been increased several chusetts Technology tnan, a few feet back. hours per week, this being especially the case Amherst was now out of the race.. Sands started with the Freshtnan class, and in the Engineering the last quarter for ~Union in the lead and looked departments. Several very itnportant class like a sure winner. T'he remainder of the race regulations have also been introduced si.nce last was the 1 nost exciting of the day. About thirty year's catalogue was issued. yards from the tape,. Stebbins,. of Massachusetts Under the head of prizes there are two ad- Institute of Technology, passed Sands, who al- ditions. The John K. Porter Metnorial Scholar- lowed him to n1ake the pace. When it came to ships are provided for by a fund given by Mrs. the final struggle neither man was able to change John K. Porter it:J.Inetnory of h.er husband. The fund is designed to assist stadents who, after his position and U t.don lost by the width of a graduating frotn college, pursue the study of man's body. O'Connor of Worcester Polytech- law, and at present provides for three scholar- nic Institute was third and Kendall of An1herst ships of one hundred dollars ea.ch. The aw~Tds last, sixty yards away. Union was slightly at a will be made at Con1mencement to the Seniors chosen by the faculty. The '.Gill9ert M. Speir disadvantage, for she h2 d the outside track and Memorial Scholarship is a fund given by Mrs. the track was in poor condition so far out. Glover C. Arnold in metnory of her father, the After the races th.e visiting teams were enter- late Judge Gilbert M. Speir, and provides tained at the Houston Club, the students' club another scholarship for students in law. The of the University,. where the University of sum of one hundred dollars will be given at Pennsylvania Glee Club sang and W alt~r Camp Commencetnent to the Senior chosen by the gave a short talk on foot-ball. Followtng that Faculty. they were tendered a receptio~ by the M.ask Space is also devoted to the Butterfield Prac- and Whig Club of the U ntverstty. As pnzes tical Lecture Course, and the degrees conferred each Union n1an received a 1nassive silver cup, and awards made at the ninety-eighth annual gold lined, those being the second prizes. The commencetnent last June are all given. . first prizes were watches.

TI-IE ·0'0NCORDIENSJES. l{esolutiOQS '6--Ur]iOQ 2 .. Last Saturday the college ·men agai:n met : The fine~t base-ball gatne of the season came defeat on the carnpus, this time at the hands of, off on the c-a111pus on Saturday, April 18, when the Cohoes Giants. 'Captain Beattie's m~en had the coHege team was defeated by the \ Reso- worked hard during the week and their constant : lutions '' of Schenectady. The :gatne was a practice was fully evidenced by their playing. · pretty one, although the wearers of the garnet There was lots of enthusiRsm displayed, and , clearly lacked sufficient out door ; training about several fine plays resulted. A sensational , three hundred people were present and the gatne feature of the gatne was the .grand raUy m·ade • was interesting frotn start to finish. in the eighth inning by the college tean1 ,, when , The Scores follow : t~e men showed their full eapacity for good base-ball. The score is as foUows : 1 2 1 1 1 0 1 1 9 1 0 14 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 RESOLUTIONS. R. lB. S.:B. P.O. A. E. 3 0 0 0 1 6 3 0 1 6 1 1 1 11 5 1 0 2 2 1 1 i 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Totals ................ 6 5 7 27 12 3 UNION. R. lB. S.B. P.O. A. E. 0 Totals .................. 12 8 1B. 0 27 12 0 Passage, 1. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 4 Purchase, s. s . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 0 Sullivan, 2b. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 4 2 1 UNION. R. Hayes, 1b ................... 1 Taylor, 1b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Passage, l. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Sullivan, 2b. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Beattie, Sb. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Quinlan, c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Purchase, s. s. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Stumpf, p. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 No Ian, c . f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 McL~an, r. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Totals .................. 10 0 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 0 1 10 P.O. 6 2 1 4 1 6 2 2 0 0 24 A. E. :0 3 0 1 0 1 1 0 4 0 1 1 :0 2 5 1 0 0 0 0 11 9 . Beattie, 3b ................ 0 0 Quinlan, c ................ 0 2 . McLean, r. f .............. 0 0 · Stumpf, lb ................ 0 0 So1nmers, e . f .......... , . . 0 0 · Parsons, p.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 1 Taylor, p ................. 0 0 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 4 SCORE BY INNINGS. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 3 8 3 0 0 R 2 0 0 0 1 0 1 24 14 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 2 1 1 0 0 0 7 : Resolutions ................... 2 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 x-6 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-2 SCORE BY INNINGS. Earned 'runs, Resolutions, 3· Base on balls . -off Pat·so,ns, 5 ; off Daiey, 4· Struck out by . 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ,' Parsons, 7; by Daley I 2. Two base hits- U~Ion · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .1 1 8 0 1 0 () 4 3-10 · Sullivan. Three base hits-Kelly, 2. Double Giants ... ············ · · · · · · · · 7 0 2 0 2 0 () 1 x- .. 12 plays-Kelly to Enders to Hourigan; Quinlan Surntnary-Two base hits, Hayes, Stumpf z, · to Stumpfto Quinlan. Frickin, Shaughnesy. Three base hits, Sulli- · van, Manning, McGraw. Stolen bases, Taylor, . Beattie 4, Purchase 2, Stumpf, McLean, Me- • Graw 2, Shaughnessy 2. Base on balls, off. Stumpf, 5; off La Belle, 5· Struck out, by Stumpf, 5 ; by La Belle, 9· Time of game, 3 : 20. Umpire, Meade, '99· Several of the fraternities have ·organized base-ball teatns and are to play gan1es in the near future. Last Saturday the first game was played between the Sigtna Phi's and Psi U psi- Ion's and 1·esulted in a v1ctory for the latter, the score being 10 to 8.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 9 ·. ing President, D. Tho ball Smith ; \The Army,'' CoL A. D. Shaw; '·'The 'Orator of the Day,\ Rev. W .. W. EattersbaH; ''The Faculty of the Albany Medical CoHege;\ l)r. S. R. Morrow; ·The sixty-fifth corntnencement of the Albany Medical College was held at Harman us Bleecker . Hall on Tuesday afternoon, April 14th. Jesse M. W. Scott delivered the comtn.encetneut · essay. The 1nost important part of the pro- gnunme was the conferring of the degree of . M.D. on the fifty ,members of the graduating class, which was performed by President Ray- . 1nond. Before presenting the diplomas to the students President Raymond made an appro- priate address. Dr. Battershall also spoke to . the men. The prize awards a1·e as follows:-· ·-Vander Poel prize, consisting of a good clinical tnicro- sco11e, was awarded to F.]. Clarke. Professor Vander Veer's prize of $50 for the best report of the surgical clinics held during the session was a warded to John D. Vedder. Professor Merrill's prize for the best report of the eye and ear d.inics, was awarded to Amasa P. Muir. Professor Townsend's prize to student passing the best exatnination in physiology at the expir- atio.n of ~is first year of study in that branch, was awarded to A. H. Travers. Professor • t: Boyd's prize of a case of instrutnents to the student passing the best final exatnination in obstetrics was won by J. M. W. Scott. To the senior student passing the best final exatnination was awarded a case of surgical instruments. J. M. W. Scott received this prize. Dr. Horace R. Powell's prize, a general operating case, for best exan1ination in the second year, was received by J. M. McKnown. The Huested prize, con- sisting of Gross complete pocket case of instru- ments to the first year student passing the best final exatnination, was awarded to A. H. Trav- ers. The appointn1ents are : City Hospital, F. F. Clark, J. M. W. Scott, L. L. Fulltnore ; St. Peter's, H. L. K. Shaw, W. H. Sandford. Edward J. Wieneke was appointed house physician at the Ellis Hospital, Schenectady. A n1ost enjoyable banquet wa£ held in the evening at the Kenmore, and the following toasts were responded to_ Dr. Vander Veer, toastLnaster: \Our Albany Association,\ retir- ' ' R . . ,,, D· A H D. d · '' T.l , ennn tscences, ; · r. . · . • ·. • 1. em a ; l'e Legislature/' Senator W. E. Johnson; ''Sur- gery of To-Day,\ ~Col. A .. E. Baxter; \The Clergy,,,, Rev. D. 0. Meers ; ' ' The Lega 1 Pro- fession,\ George Lawyer; \The 'Ciass of '96,'' Dr. M. W. Blakesiy-. The Alumni have elected the following officers for the ensuing year : President, WiUiam Hailes, Jr. ; vice-presidents, I. Buckbee, Ja~mes F. Barker, John Jones, ]a1nes H. Mitchell and Jan'les A. Halley; secretary, Willis J. Tucker; treasurer, T. F. C. Van Allen; corresponding secretary, John Ben Stonehouse ; historian, Ezra A. Bartlett ; executive com.mittee, to fill vacancies, Dr. A. Vander Veer, Dr. W. H. Happel, Dr. WiUiarn J. Lewi and Dr. John B. Washburn. 5l}e jll:J]'i or prom. e·Q ad e. The hop cotnmiUee of the Junior class has decided to hold a Junior promenade on the evening of May rst in Nott Memorial Hall. This is a custotn, although new at Union, which ought to be kept up, and the committee is to be congratulated upon the manner in which it is taking hold of the affair. The comtnittee in charge is sparing no pains to make this one of the social events ofthe year at Union, and the promenade should be a grand success. Base Ball S\t;edule. Manager Antho~y of the Base-ball team has arranged the following excellent schedule, but there are still a few open dates yet to be filled : .April 29-Union vs. University of Vermont~ at Schenectady May 2- \ General Electric, \ '~ ~' 1- '' Fordham, '' New York \ 8- H Rutgers, New Brunswick \ 9- '' U.S. M . .A., '' West Point \ 11- \ Middlebury, \' Schenectady \ 12- \ '' \ '~ \ 13- '~ Amherst \ .Amhe1·st ' . \ 23- \ General Electric., \' Schenectady ~~ 30-- \ Manih.attan College, \ Albany June 6- '~ Rutgers, \ Schenectady \ 10- \ Dartmouth, \ Hanover \ 11- \ University of Vermont, \ Burlington H 12- '' \' H '' H ~~ 13- \ Middlebury, \ Middlebury

to THE ·CONC·OR:DtENS!S. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED ON ALTERNA\l'E WEDNESDAYS DURING THE CO•LLEG.E YEA!R BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF JJJIJITORS: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. WALTER L. HUGGINS, '96, Business Manager. WILLIAM H. HALL, '96'·, Literary Edi.to:r. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst.BusinessManager. F. PA~KARD, PALMER, '97, 1 H. c. TODD, 97,, I H. H. :BROWN, 97, 1 Assistant Editors. A. H. BIRCH, '97, r· R. D. FuL~ER, '97, , D. WooD, 97, CARL HAM. MER, '98, . J WILLIAM D. REED, '98, r P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, ;j Reportorial Staff. F. Boss, '98, .J E. S. BROWN, Law School. TERMS, SINGLE COP!J:ES, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 1.5 CENTS. Address all communications to THE CONCORD!~ · ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to Inake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. played third base in the 'varsity tearn every season since he has been in college, and has never failed to put up a steady, strong game. He has always trained· hard and co:nscientiously, and is a man who, besides being popular among the team, will have perfect contro~ of then1 while on the field. Mr. Beattie has always been pro~minent in affairs ·concerning the college in gener·al, ang stud en.ts in particular, and well deserves the honor that has been given him. THE Junior Promenade, which is to be :held this coming Friday evening, while given by the Junior class, is a college affair, and should receive the hearty support of the students. The class is to be eongratulated on the spirit it has shown in continuing this custom, for it is one that should not die,. but rather have a long existence. To be a succ.ess there should be a large attendance of the students, and every n~an in coHege who enjoys society and dancing should be there, for it will be the last college dance until the connnencement ball. The Pron1enade wiH no doubt prove a fitting finale to one of the 1nost successful series .of dances ever given at Union. UNION certainly has reason to be proud of her musical organization. In the three concerts that have now been given at Gloversville, Schenectady and Albany, the audiences have been filled with CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER ~NO BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ·. unbounded enthusiasm over the work of the clu'bs. WE understand that certain members of the faculty are to organize a golf club in the near ' future. Why should not the students do the same? THE students are indebted to Gen. Butterfield for the pamphlet containing the two lectures of Mr. Andrew Carnegie. The lectures are'' Wealth and Its Uses,\ delivered at Union College, and \Business delivered at Cornell U niversi,ty. THE Daily Union in its notice of the Union College surn1n.er school has Dr. Wright as pro- fessor of the English language and literature, and Prof. Mosher as ins-tructor in physiology and physical education. It makes u~ smile when we consider the only inference to be drawn is that Dr. Truax is to teach applied mathematics and Dr. Linhart, French. THE election of Mr. R. B. Beattie, '96, as captain · of the base-ball tean1 :m.eets with the unanimous approval of the student body. Mr. Beattie has This has been continually demonstrated by the hearty ,applause after each performance and the repeated call for encores. There have been a great many persons who have no hesitation in saying that Union's clubs cornpare very favorably with the musical clubs sent out by any college. More concerts are being arranged, and we are sure that the organizations will continue to ke(}p up the excellent reputations already established. THE Albany Argus has another attack of its usual complaint. sour grapes. Just because the people of Albany do not want Union and because the removal bill has a black eye at present, the Argus is trying to injure tbe reputation of the college. And this is not its first attempt, either. On the first page of Jiast Sunday's issue in bold black type, the largest on the page, is the announcement. UNION MAKES A PooR SHOWING, in relation to the relay races at Philadelphia. Aside fl\om this, and the summary, there is not another word to explain how, Ol\ why, or when, she made such a poor showing. If that is not downright injustice, we fail in our estimate. That . ' 1 .. l t i ( 2 i I t ! ] ( l ( ]

THE' CONCORDlENSIS. 1 1 ..l. Union did make a good showing is recogniized and , . admitted by everyone who 1\:nows anythin.g at all • about athletics. 8he was beaten by :about six : inches, and the winning tearn scored second best : time outside of any of the J:arge colleges. If that , is a poor showing., we would like a little more of it. : Of all the underhanded n1ea:ns employed to injure . a college's reputation that of 1nisinforming the 1 · innocent public is the 1nost conternptable, and the · A. rgus is constantly using s'ID.ch ·means. year, for it is not every eollege that has a rnan of such extended travels and wide experience, nor a tnan that has such a faculty for presenting .an account of his own personal observations in such an entertaining, and at tl~e sa1ne tiine instructive a n1anner. WE understand that the subject of having the meet with the University of California in Schenec- tady instead of in Albany rs under consideration. The only arg1:11.nent that can be advanced in favor THE work done by the Union relay tea·rn at : of this rr1ove seems to be that Wil1'iatn's College Philadelphia last ~aturday is certaialy ve1·y grati- : and Syracuse University have a dual meet at fying to all who are interested in athletics. The ·· Albany a week previous, and that Union-Cali- tean1 ran a good race, and one that received the fornia cannot draw a la~ge enough crowd to pay cornmendation of all who saw it. While nion • expenses. Of course this should be considered, lost by a very narrow margin it is 'vell to re~tnember , but is it trn:e? Can Willian1s-Syracuse draw a that the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's , ~arger crowd than Union-California? We don't team has not been beaten this season and has won ·· believe they can. The success of the Union-CaB- several i·mportant races. It rnight not be out of •· fornia games last spring proves this, for a larger place to Inention here that vVilliams did a happy · crowd was present than at the Union-Williains thing by refusing to accept the invitation to take ·· ganres the year before, .and surely Union has more part, as Amherst has a far .superior tean1 to hers, friends in Albany than Sy1~acuse University. But and Amherst finished last by about .sixty yards. , if the meet should be held in Schenectady, where No wonder WiUiarns does not care to nreet Union · is the crowd coming frolll to pay the expenses ? on the track. There is not a man in college but l'nows that , Schenectady peopie will n.ot attend college Jneets. THE sanitary eng·ineers ought to give themselves a little practical work in drawing up plans for the bette1· sanitary condition of some parts of the . college g1·ounds. Some of the cess pools and garb- . age piles back .of the buildings do not send forth a very invigorating odor on these wartn days. Then there is the ditch at the foot of the terrace in front of north college that stands full of dead water, making a very unhealthy state of affairs during the whole spring ternt. A few hours work by a. 1nan, assisted by a shovel would very quickly res- tore drainage and remove these not only unsightly but also extremely unhealt.hy conditions. A col- lege giving instruction in sanitary engineering ought to be a model in its own sanitary surround- ings. DR. WILLIAM WELLS haS' begun another of his very popular course of lectures. His subject this spring is one that con1es very near ho1ne, but for that reason loses none of its attractiveness. ''The Story of the Canadas \ is eertainly so1nething in which we are all ve1·y much interested, and treated .. in the happy, entertaining rnanner that Dr. Wells . uses, it is rendered all the more enjoyable. The . students of Union are to be congratulated upon being able to hear such a course of lectures each , There is one member of Union's tearn who could draw a larger crowd in AI bany than the whole temn would in Schenectady. But there ar.e other considerations. The Ineet will be the first the California n1en have had in the East, and the college world will be curious to know the :result. Albany is well located to spread the news, and the Associated Press there would soon do it. If the ~ollege is to be benefited, the result tnus:t be well cil·cnlated, and it stands to reason that it could better be done in Albany. There are many other things to be considered, and we think a great Inistake will be m.ade should the n1eet be held in this city. A rose in purest beauty grew;- A fairer, lovelier flower ne'er blew, Until one day, ah, ruthless rne- I touched the petals ; now I rue Its beauty fled. A.h me, ah 1ne! Anothell\ rose I also knew, That fairer yet in beauty grew; U ritil one night, oh, villain me,- I touched it with my lips; then too, Its beauty fled, for aye. Ah me! P. P. S., '98. ..

12 (Tune, Eaton Boating Song). Princeton 1nay have her tiger, Cornelltnay have het· crew; Rutgers nut.y have her ,bow-wow. Yale rnay ha-ve her blue; But Union's Hi kah shal\l always Resonad fl'oin old '96, And the garnet dear shall ever Be ch.e1·ished by '96. The F:rosh ntay have t1leir colors, The Sophs rnay have .their yell, The J unio11·s tnay have their s\veetbearts, And be so very swell; But the garnet and silver shall always Be waved over '96, And we'll ~ather round our standard So dear to '96. The terrace is thronged with students Singing the Senior's praise; The garden_ is filled with lovers, Who gladly their voices raise, In singing the praises and telling· Thy fame, dear o 1 ld '96, And in holding sacred thy glorious na.me, Dear old '96. As we leave our friends behind us, As we leave the terrace dear, As we sever' :the ties that bind us, To everything precious here, Our hearts and voices unite as we raise, Dear old '96, A song to thee and a shout. of praise, Dear old '96. R. B. BEATTIE, '96. fl 'el)t((f) 1 Qial medi tatiOQ iQ ;prof. ja(l~SOQ'5 (jardeQ. A garden this, whose growth began Frorn love within the heart of man Of heaven's art in grass and trees, Of angel's song in sununer breeze, Of sculpturing, in streamlet's curve, Of God, of beauty, source and nerve. The fruitful s.easons played their part In bringing to the gardener's heart Not food alone, but gladness; which Would soul of every man enrich If he ren1e1n be red earth is clod Till wonder, dowered by love of God, 'Tis said the race began with fall From love of God in Eden; all Its after-course attempt to hide From Him. who w&Iked at eventide Within His gardens: fable olu, 1 Inake thee propheey unfold! The race has risen; beJe a heart Did plant, for wors kip as for art- Each added rose o:r pJne :a pl'ayeil· To bring the God of Nature near- A 1nan-1nade Eden, to invite The Father's presence, day and night. lf fail the1·e was, this ntakes an}ends,-\ Isaac for Ada1n; loving friends Are 1uan and God; the Father's laws For decking earth are made the cause To waken in the heaTt a thirst For high co1nn1uning .as at :fhst. Throughout the centul'ies to come May Union's Cainp11s be the ho:rne Of c1·eed that coinrr1on :commercings Are sacred, handling God's own things, That God the Father takes His way Through earth at cool and noon .of day! WALTER LAIDLAW. UNION COLLEGE June 26, 1895. At a recent n1eeting of the Senior class it was decided to wear caps and gowns after the beginning of the Senior vacation about June 1. A co·mrnittee consisting of Messrs. Hall, Twi- ford and Herring was appointed to supervise getting a portrait of ex-President Webster to be hung in the chapel with those of the other ex- pt·esidents. A class book, containing a picture of each men1ber of the class, the professors and several views of the college grounds, is also . under headway and promises to be a very neat and successful production. The class song written by Mr. Beattie, to be found elsewhere in this nutnber, was unanirnously adopted, and thanks extended the writer. Robert C. Alexandet·, '8o, of The Mall and .E'xpress,, has been invited by the Press Asso- ciation of Mississippi to deliver an address at its annual meeting next month. fE . 11 a p c r ] t ( 1

13 ji [Ocal aiJd p~r&OI)al. , Lee Case Felthousen, '86, professor of the ·• State Normal School, Chester, Pa., spent Easter Swart, Med. '98, was in town April 12 • week in town. E. A. Corbin, '71, was seen on the hill re- : The rumor that Mrs. Raymond was expected· cently. ' to return shortly is denied. She will not return Beckwith, '94, was in town last week for a until next fall. few days. Hayes, '97, who has been ill for nearly three W. G. Brown, '95, spent Sunday, April 1 8,. 1nontbs, is back in college, where everybody is in. the cjty. · glad to see him .. F. E. Holleran, '95, has been in the city for ·Guy Vrotnan, '98; is doing engineering work a few days. jn the western part of the state. He will return The musical c~ubs will give a concert in Sara- -to coUege next term. toga next tnonth. Frank Vander Bogert, '95, who is now at Noel, '99, who is ill with the fever, is re- the University of Pennsylvania, spent Easter at ported to be better. his home in this city. Johnston, '95, of Palatine Bridge was in town A. G. Sotnmer, '96, attended the sixth annual Saturday, April r8. · re-union of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity at Syra- Dunhan1, '96, spent Sunday, April 2 6, at his 'Cuse, April 24 and 25. hotne in Catnbridge_. Pecl{ham, '96 and Draper, '97 represented Prof. MacKenzie is at his hotne in Ca 1 nbddge, · .Alpha Pi of Chi Psi at the 55th convention held Mass., on account of illness. ·· at Boston, Aprii r 5-17. Dr. Raytnond preached to the students in the · The Freshtnen quartette will sing at an enter- chapel on Sunday afternoon. taintn:ent to be given at the First P1~esbyterian Gen. Butterfield, '49, reviewed the 12 th Regi- ·• church on Tuesday, April 28. n1ent of New York, April 21. . H. D. Merchant, '93, now in the Albany A. S. Derby, '96, was at his hotne in Sandy ' Law School, was an interested spectator at Hill last Saturday and Sunday. / · last Saturday's base-ball game. C. L. Enders, ex-'g6, is now city editor of John T · B. Gilmore, '87, has purchased the the Schenectady Daz'ly Gazette. · drug store on State street recently run by Rosa Sands, '98, was called to New york last week •. and has now complete charge of the business. on account of his 1nother's illness. . Professors Opdyke and Edwards acted as Sinclair, 'g8, ~ho has been visiting his brothet· •• judges at the fifteenth annual prize speaking at Chicago, has returned to college. contest of the Saratoga High school, April r6. The '99 base-ball team defeated the U. C. I. Louis C. Beattie, of the New York Recorder .. ' team on April 21, by a score of Io-6. .: and Paul Beattie, of the New '\ ... ork 'Journal, Lawrence, '99, attended last week the wedding ;: both Union alutnni, spent Easter Sunday in this of his father at Setauket, Long Island. .city· Mr .. Rodgers of Albany was the guest of : The General subject of the Alexander prize Prof. Edwards for a few days last week. . i as announced is, ''The growth of Den1ocracy Dean Ripton h~s reduced the Freshman , in E.urope and America in the Nineteenth schedule for this tenn by discontinuing history. ; Century.\ . Kin_g, Med. '98, spent Sunday, April r2, with·· Dean Ripton was one of the delegates fro 1 n Fenwick, Med. '98, at the latter's home in this : s city. · the. tate Street Methodist church of this city to Cleavel ·, , 96 , 1 d 11 the annual Methodist conference held in Glovers- Jas retu rne to co ege after · spending some t 1 ·m · t. 1 · . ville,, April 16-20. e In prac tea engtneenng · study. Professor Perkins delivered a lecture before Van Busekotn, '94, Albany J\1edical, ' 9 7, has the Technical association at their regular meeting accepted a position at Utica for the sutntner in a · Monday evening, April 20. His subject was. hospital. · '' Alcohol and its Uses\.

' ' ' 14 .----------....· ADVERTISEMENTS. -- PATRONiZE ·OUR ADVERTISERS. Hegeman, '99, Rootn 44, N. S. S. C. has re- ceived so1ne rn·.ore samples of Athletic supplies ' fron1 H ulbet·t Bros. & Co. of New York, dealers · in an kinds ofAthletic anu Gy[nnasium 'Goods .• The following rr:s a partiai Hst of the satnples frotn which you tnay select and order. 'Tennis . Rackets, T'en nis Balls, Tennis Shoes, Bicycle and Golf Su,its, Spike RunniNg Shoes, Running Pants, Jersey S!l1irts and Pants., Sweaters, Etc. T'hen he has sornething else that you will want · th.is tenn, Duck Trousers. ~ 1>JC> ~'TENOGRAPHY. \ ~ ~=· ========================~=~ -~· ~1~ ! IJ:lCTATlON TAKEN AN.D NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORA lYONS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COPIED. B .• E. HUGGINS, 22M. s. s. c~ ALL \V:OitK CONFID:ENTIAIJ. CHAUNCEY FltENCH. WILLIAlll R. FOX. (Successors to VossLER & Nellis). 33 N. S. S.C. J ,Qtimesoutof l Q The New York Journal recently of- fered ten bicycles to the ten winners in a guessing contest, leaviqg the ,choice o£ machine to each. ALL CHOSE Columbia Bicycles Nine immediately, and one after he hacllooked at others. The Journal therefore bought TEN Columbias at $l00 each. On even ~terms a Columbia wilt be chosen TEN titnes out of TEN. POPE MANUFACTURING CO. HARTFORD, CONN. I896 Art C~talogue for two 2-cent stamps. March 19, 1896. Our stock for Spring and Sumrner of The Union C~l'lege Book Exchange still continues to 1896 is nOW ready in all departments. receive orders fo1·all kinds of Text Books, Fountain Pens, Engineer's & Draughtsmen's Supplies. Tablets, Pencils, nks and Second Hand Books always kept :in stock. I •• I * ' . . fHE LATEST THING IN ''UNION'' STATIONERY JUST RECEIVED. Beside the usual standard goods it will contain 1nany seasonable novelties. Brool(s Brothers, Broadway, cor. 22d St., New York City. CLOTHING AND FURNISH- } ompare our prices with those of the city bo<Yk.stones .tt~:ud.wive ING ooons READY MADE us a trial. F .AIR TREATMENT TO ALL. AND MADlil TO MEASURE • • • :::: :::: c .. p s a ( b 11 = I I I

'THE CONCORDIENSlS. 15 G-IVE YOUR PATRONAGE TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNION. j ~ Professor Pl~oRser's class in Geology spent Saturday, April 19, in prospecting in the vicinity of Hoffmans Ferry. The next trip wiH prob- ably be rnade to Howe's caye. R. H. Potter, '95, made the college a short ·· visit last Friday, having been stunrnonded frotn his studies at Yale D~ivinity School on account ·of the death of his grandfather. James M. Cass, '95, who has been in Boston since he gt~aduated, doing m,issionary work in the slums of that city, \Vas v~isiting friends in the city :recendy. He has accepted a charge at l Dannemora., N. ¥. Mr. George T. Hughes, '93, of The JJfail . and Express, New York city,. was tnarried to Miss Della Young of Schenectady on Tuesday~ Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the St:raigb..t 01-:l.t .J::\ro Oiga:rettes_ price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes wilt find THIS BRAND : April 28. Mr. Hughes was Editor-in-Chief of superior t? all others. . . . .. These Cigarettes are made from the bnghtest, most delicately flavored THE CoNCORDIENSIS during his senior year in and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. 'fhi>; is the Old and . Original B1·and of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and :was brought out coHege. by us in the year r875. BEWAUE OF IMITATIONS, and observt that the firm Chas. H. Kilpatrick, '9'8, ran in the cross- name as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GIN,'TER, ·. country race held by the New York Athletic rfhe American Tobaoco 'COn1pany, I Successor, ManuJacturer\ ELECTRIC ~v~ CITY ;y~ TROlJSERS ;y~ eo., . -~--E_._F_. _D_A_L_Y_. __ ®b. . , cluits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4 Up. Overcoats, $16 tJ'p. Drop a postal card and our representative (U. E. HENNESY) will call. 149 80. CENTRE 8'T'REE1'. Next door to Barhydt House. Club on April 18. The course was five tniles, and Kilpatrick was the first of the N. Y. A. C. n1en to finish, so winning the handsome medal, which was the prize. ~COAL . BUY YOUR GOAL OF W. :p. CARNSEY, * ~ ~coAL. Office, 433 State Stree• Yard, 229 Park Place. ~ COAL. ~A. BRO-wN & SON,~ FURIIlTURE AND BEDDIItG ~ ALL~NDS ~ FOR® STUDEITS ® USE, THE OLDEST BUSINE:SS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

~ .j I 16 THE OO,NOORDIENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR ADYERTISER.S. ;Clark Winslovv Crannell, '95, fonnerly Editor- in-Chief of 1\'HE CoNCORDIENSIS, was in the ci:ty visiting friends for a few days recently. Mt~. Cr::-1nnel:l is now en1ployed on The JJ:fail and . Express, the leading evening paper .of New York, and is, we tn1derstand, having great suc- cess in his favorite line of work, jouruaHsn1. ~~ ------- ·---- ·--~- '\g'• EMPIRE ST~AM LAUNDRY, . I 127 JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Props, Students' $5 per term, strictly ) J j. in advance. (V - - - ~ - - - - :-::.·.- ..... ::.·.:·::::.-:.:·:.· .. ·::: ...... _·::.\::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::: ---- ... - -~-- --.- --. ~ --- - - ----- -- -- .. - ---- .. - --- ---- - --- ----- ---- ------- --- ---- ---------- ------- --------- ----~--- ---- .. --- ------·--- .................................................................................................... ;···········-···· .. ··••n••·········-·········n••··············-·u······- .. - - - - - 129 WALL ST., Opp. Post Office, The largest and finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. WILLIAM DOBERMANN, . --- GAT:ERE'R FOR--- EDDINGS, .. • • • L:::::=:.==-- 8 U P P E R 8, E 'T' G. VARIETY OF ICE CREAM AND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND. . ••••• FRIED OYSTERS ·$2 PER HUNDRED. • • • • DOBE~MANN'S ~ESIItAUf\ANTJ.l 104 !e 106 WALL STREET. Oyster Stew in Pail ta take Home, 25 cents. Oyster or OZam, Pry ina Bo(K}, 25 cent&,

------- ADVERTISEMENTS. ------- 17 READ THE ADVERTIS.EMENTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. e~WA D ;·~---====·==. =====..::.::..:.:..::._-· _.::_:_____:.:_. _::______:: • • j ~ I FOR SALE. · ..tw T·O LEASE. MANUFACTORIES ~: AND DWE:LLI,NGS. I ~ . ----=::::::::::::::=-----o- - 0 ~......, :-.v r -. ..... :}; \·r .. ~ ..,.-: ..... ~ .§) .. ~. ~~~.._--~~ . . 0 . ---=:::::::::::- 0 ---------z- . ~· F\'O.R RENT-~ ~· Dttv~elli1'tfl Houses and Flats Excellently Located, .Adapted to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union College. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONC ISLAND CITY.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTS. -- LET OUR ADVERTISE.H8 KNOW YOU ARE OO•LLEGE' MEN WHEN DEALING WITH THEM. ~: ·~ 'fTf t .... .!J t-1 ~ !70 ( 0 I. LEVI.NE, M: CIJ.. ~: CfJ ~:. Q. 0 ~. Van Curl€r0pera House Block. LOWEST PRICES. ~~VJIYLE & SON, ~ ~ * E!!$1RJIVERS, * I and Skin Diseases. ---..RLBF\NY, N. Y. Opp. Edison Hotel (~tp staiTs.) . OSE A. SCHMIDT'S NEW ~lSCOVEKY FD& THE BAIB A certain cure for Da1;1drttff, Scalp Prevents falling of .the hair. PHOTOGI{Al)HIC SUJPLIES I I I • Of all kinds for P1ofessionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes ·of ..... At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. QEO. H. <l\IARDJiNEEK, Successor to if. N. McDonald. : ·' FO·UN'TAIN PENS, ~~· ~=- UNION COLLECE SA:N,DERS' cJEWELERS, 233 S'TA'TE ST'., SGHEN E:GTADY •r--t. y BAJtHYTE. & l)EVENPJ~CIC, . • . . . . Wholesale and Retail Dealers in :ee}lL -:- J1NB -:- Weon Coal, Liine, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENEC'I\ADY. N. Y. y. M I c. A.,===========--. ~tc ~E~~flU~flN~, jf~ ---========CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. ~J.te6t ~Binner in the ~§ity :For 2S ~~ent6 . .IJ(if\Meal Tickets will be sold to Students only ... , , . ..•... for $3.00 for 2I Tickets. WILSON DAVIS, .... MlJR~CHAN1' TAILOR, O:pp. Union Depot Arcade, 544 Broadway, Albany, N. Y • 237 STATE S ..... ScHENECTADY N. Y. f ( ' ( 1 t 1 1 1 J

