in G®NG®RDIBNSIS. VoL. XIX. UNION COLLEGE, MARCH 11, 1896. No. 11. professor ,Ast;fn<?re at Rom~. AH readers of the CoNCORDrENSIS will app!l~e- c iate the privilege of sharing R portion of i:he delightful correspondence fro~m Professor Ash- more in Italy to President Rayrnond. It is plnin that Union's representative at Rorne is. enjoying, as none but the thorough scholar and man of classic tastes can, the present oppor- · tunities for pursuing his favoFite studies on the · Held of their origin. The foUqwing extract is fron1 a letter dated HoTEL D'ITALIA, Rorne,_ January 5th : \ * * * Much as I 'have wanted to cotne vated ruins on the other, there would be nothing to suggest to the inexperien.ed eye either the city of th.:e Popes or the days of the Cresars. But the extensive excavations which have been catTied on of late in a sorn.ewhat thorough rnanneT have done tnuch to n1ake clear th-e actual boundaries of Ancient lton1e, and to throw rnuch new light upon the discoveries made undex the Popes and during the Napole- oni·c 1·u:le. At the same ti tne these san1e exca- vations have uprooted and removed a large part of what once made Rome attractive- especially to the artist-although for the student of antiquity there exist opportunities here in years gone by, I never irn:agined that the • for work which a few years ago were unkno·wn. place ,could be half so interesting as ,jt is, and I The Italian governn1ent is doing its best, I arn can only regret that I did not get here ten years · told, to help on and encourage archreological ago, and that I have to leave it so soon. How- research, and Lanciani is the guiding star in ever, I atn making the most of ,my tin1e; but thisdirect.ion. But the governn1ent., apparently, there .seems to be so rnuch to be done, seen ~nd lacks the money to continue its invebtigations at learned. We have been to see Pt·of. and Mrs. anything like a rapid rate, and the archreologists Hale. The American school seems to be 1nak- · feel tt\1iis !lack very kGenly. Italy is poor, as ing good headway, though Prof. Hale tell's n1e everybody kno,vs, and the recent disturbances that he never had so rnuch to do. The diffi- · in Africa have cost the people dearly. The culty of securing for his students pennission to lattet· are consequently alleged as an excuse for study in the museums, and to attend certain · partia.J fai1lure to supply tneans and men to carry lectures by specialists, free of charge, is very .· forwa1·d th.e ·work of excavation. great in Italy, and there is a good deal of red- Undoubtedly the ~most interesting of the ex- tape connected with it all which consu~mes , cavated sites here is the Forun1 Rotnanum-the much valuable tin1e. I find that the proper : old forum of Republican days~ as distinguished thing for rne to do is to study topography, which, from the later fora of the Cresars, of which of course, includes all that can be gathered . there is little to be seen. Frotn the Arch of ft~om books concerning the ancient sites visited. Titus on the east to the Capitoline Hill at the To differentiate Ancient frotn Medireval and western end of the Forun1 there is a considerable Modern Rotne is no stnall undertaking, I have mass of retnains, nearly all of which is thor- discovered, and that is what I am in the ~main · oughly cleaned of rubbish and is now perfectly trying to do. New Rotne-that is, the Rome under-stood. One tnay see there for a certainty which has grown up within the last twenty the ancient level trodden by the Ronwns of the years-is like any other Eut•opean city, The new buildings seetn to covet· every quarter, and were it not for the nun1berless churches on the one hand and patches here and there of exca- tirne .of Augustus, the ancient pavetnent of the Sacl'a V-ia along which Horace walked when he rnet th~e \bore the \vic us Tuscus\ beneath whi-ch the water of the great sewer constructed

4 THE CONO·ORDIENSIB. by Tarquinius Priscus is still visible as it flows Tl1ere is scarcely a tetnple of the time of the toward the Tiber ; one tnay examine the veritable Cresars or the later Republic whose columns Hall, or dwelling, of the Vestal Virgins, and trace and tnarbles have not been applied to adorn the outUnes of the rostra, fr.om which ·Cicero some tnodern church ; hardly a great public delivered not a few of his g1~eatest speeches. It buHding, like the baths of Caracalla, or the requires no great effort of the itnagination to thermce of Diiocletian, but is stripped of every reconstruct from existing ruins the temples of vestige of ornamentation to beautify a papal Concord, Saturn and Vespasian at the foot of palace or to satisfy the greed of some feudal the Capitol, and even to place that of Jupiter . lord. The Romans had a way of constructing Optimus Maxin1us upon its sumtnit in the place . their baths and temples and other public houses of the modern church of Ara Coeli whi.ch now , of brick, .and facing thern with vari-colored stands there, and then to picture the triutnphal stones and marhles brought from Greece and pl'ocession in its progress a1ong the Appia Via • Egypt or other tnore or less distant countries. (with which the Via S. Sebastiano and the Via : The powerful famiHes, whether Papal or Baro- S. Gregorio now correspond), past the spot niai, of a later age used these as quarries chiefly; il where the Arch of Constantine afterwards stood, and one can now see only the bare bricks and and (under?) the Arch of Titus and down the , cement, which were once CO\ ... ered with bas-re- Sacra Via to the Forutn, until its reached the : liefs, done by Grecian artists ; and the niches Capitoline RiB, which it ascended to the Temple ' in which once stood the statues now collected of Jupiter. • in the churches and rnuseutns. In fact, the : works of art which made glorious the Rotne of • the Imperial Epoch are scattered over Italy, and one must travel miles by rail to see what might otherwise have been enjoyed within the . compass of the Aurelian Walls. I know that this is an old story; but I believe it is necessary to come to Rome to realize it. It is aU summed up in the proverb: \Quod non fecerunt Barbari fecere Barbarini,\ which every writer on the subject seetns to think it his duty to quote. I have not yet had time to see much of the Nothing that I have seen here-not even the Colosseum itself-brings back so vividly and tnakes so real the life of the first century of the empire and of the century preceding it, as a study, with the aid of guide-books and books of reference, of this particular spot. Such books as Dyer and Middleton and Lanciani are invalu- . able in the work of identification, and the . clin1ate enables one to take them to the scene itself and to read and gaze to one's heart's con- tent. Subsequent supplemental reading (by • the light of a latnp) then becornes not merely a • duty but the keenest of pleasures, and the desire to see more grows greater every day. . n:tuseums, although ] might extend this letter indefinitely in telling you of the cotnparatively little that I have seen. We met President and Mrs. Tailor of Vassar ·one morning at the Colosseum and l1ad a very pleasant chat with then1, and on Christmas Day we found Dr. Ir- vin and his daughter at St. Peters (High Mass But the sad thing about it all is to realize, as one does frotn a glance at the hooks dealing with the subject, how much more of what is truly ancient might retnain, had titne alone been at work at the task of destroying these ancient tnonuments. Even the Barbarians who overran the empire during its decline are scarcely ac- countable for the utter demolition of the mag- nificent palaces and buildings and works of art • which have disappeared from view. It is im- possible to open a Bredecker or treatise of any sort without reading of the wilful and wanton destruction of ancient lll'i>nurnents at the hands f the Popes and l3ftrops of the Middle Ages. . in the Cletnentine Chapel there). Since then the Irvins and ourselves have had a day together on the Appian Way, on which occasion we visited the catacombs of S. Calixtus, \insp€cted\ several columo.arla, and drove to the spot re- puted to be the site of the Three Taverns, where \the brethren\ tnet St. Paul while on his way fi·om Puteoli to Rotne. There seetns to be con- siderable doubt about the exact spot; but the

ng of y, at It y d e s THE CONCORDIENSIS. 5 place which we saw and were encouraged to be- ·. at that time, was supposed to be strong in thP Iieve to be the true one contained only a few · faith. and had one daughter rnarried to a son of fragments .of granite colurn:ns and bits of stone, · Brigharn Young and was trying to rnarry one of Bri·gha1n's daughters, spoke with sorne scorn of while all around was the desolate waste of the · · Ludlow's failing to en1 brace the opportunity Campagna. or n1akiug rnoney offered hilu by the beads of the To change the subject, the feeling here : f]fortnon ehurch if be would w1·ite up Mor1uonisrn among An1'ericans regardi,ng the trot::1ble with . favorably, and his abject fear of his life when he England seetns to be enHFely Anti-Cleveland, left because he refused to do so. For nearly a and the English, who are ,quite ntnnerous~ have ' year and half after that I was ,continually sur- rounded by l\1orrnons, having charge of the heavy dropped the Monroe doctrine and the subject of '• work on the Un.ion Paci:fic, where Brigham Young war for the co1nplications in the Transvaal and • was n1y chi,ef contractor, and excepting one Gentile other parts of southern Aft~ica. A Nlr. Alfred outfit, all the contractors on grading we1·e 1\-ior- Chenevix Trench, son of the Archbishop, whose · n\lons. I investigated Stenh.Ol!l!se's statement work on words is fatniliar to our students, is until I convinced n1yself that Fitz Hugh Ludlow staying at this hotel. He is tnuch excited about was a literary rnan without venaHty and a tiinid lllan who could not be coerced. If he had been a the doings of Dr. Jatnieson and his followers, coarser rnan of less principle, he would have done and especially bitter against the German E1n- as 1nany a man has done since, endorsed Brighan1 peror. * * *\ \Young and the entire Mo1·mon system, to rnuch Readers will recognize in Professor Hale and pecuniary profit, and to no great loss of reputa- President Tailor two of the speakers at U nion':s tlon. He was not, however~ a man of tl1at kind. Centennial Cotnnlencernent, and in Dr. Irvin I have understood since that he was injured In en tally and wrecked physically, :first by the use a trustee of the college of tnany years stand- of hasheesh and afterwards by opiu1n, alcohol, ing, formerly a resident of Troy, now of New tea and coffee that he used to e:xeess in turn to rid York city. Extracts fron1 a later letter n1ay be hirnself of the hasheesh habit. Fitz Hug·h Lud- looked for in our next issue. low had an organization that was finer than rnost women, and he should not have subjected hiinself The following letter concerning Fitz Hugh Ludlow has been received by us, and it takes exception to one of the points made by Prof. A. S. Wright in his recent article published in THE CoNCORDIENSIS on '' The Song to Old Union.\ We do not for a motnent wish to have it understood by publishing the letter that we desire to show any discourtesy to Prof. Wright, but if he has tnade a mistake in the . estimate of l\1r. Ludlow's character, we feel that it ought to be corrected. Whether he was • morally weak or not we .are not prepared to say -we will leave it to our readers to decide. EDITORS THE CoNCORDI:HNSIS : I wish to take exception to the statement of . Prof. A. S. Wright .that Fitz Hugh Ludlow was \morally weak.\ While· we we1·e classmates together in college Fitz Hugh Ludlow showed no · evidence of any moral weakness. After leaving college I never saw him, but, in the summer of '68, a Mormon by the na·me of Stenhouse, who, · to the danger that follow, in such organizations, from the use of any stimulent; but it is a sad Inis- take that he was '' morally weak. \ I doubt if any 1nan of stronger or bettei' morals has been graduated froin Old Union. Respectfully, ED W ARI> P. NORTH, '56. New York, Feb. 6, 1896 The prospects of the Musical Association are very gratif:,Ving and a season still n1ore success- ful than that of last year is expected. Three new tenors have been secured in place of those who withdrew and rehearsals are held twice a week. The clubs will soon take a short trip, appearing at Johnstown, Mar.ch zo, and at Gloversville March 21. At the latter place the clubs will be tendered an afternoon tea, and after the concert a reception by the at utnnt. Manager Clowe is arranging fo1· concerts early next tenn at Albany, Saratoga, Glens Falls and this city.

'I 6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. In the first letter he tells of the steps that have . been attempted during the last quarter ot a [Dr .. Raymoa<ili wishes THE CoNcoE:DIENSis t0 make the • century for the retnoval of Union. In r87r, following annouueement ·concerning his position in regard to the removal questi()n.J • When she was made a u ni versi ty, President presideqt ~aymoQd's P:IJQOl.IIJ\~mqi}t. \As n1y n~une is used repeatedly in connection Potter attempted to unite Union and Rutgers with tbe question of the removal of Union Col- college at Albany, hut of course failed. ·Con- iege to Albany, it is well that my position . tinuin:g, he says: '' Recently, with the election should be rnadre plain, that thete he no mis- . of an Albanian as president of Union, and the understanding. The question in my 1 nind is · reawakened interest of Albanians in the insti- sim ply this : What is for the best intel~est of tution, the subject has been r.evived and with Union CoUege? We have reached a stage more spirit than ever.\ where no furtl1er pr()gl~ess can be made wHhout He then points out that Union will follow the greatly increased fn'c iHties in the way of build- . natural order of things by ren1oving, as several ings, iaboratories, library and additional income. of our great universities and colleges, including The need is itnperative and raises a question of· Yale, Princeton, B1 4 own, Dartmouth, University in1mediate itnportance. of Pennsylvania, Columbia and the University The evident purpose of the .city of Albany to · of New York, have done the san1e thing during provide a full U niversi:ty equipment, makes it, • their existence, but he is also compelled to note therefore, the duty of the college authorities to · the point that they nearly all did the ren1oving take the question of rernoval into serious con- . when they were in their infancy. But he fails sideration. All the loyal friends of Union to note that the University of Pennsylvania, College, Altnnni, Trustees and Faculty, Jieali ze Columbia and the University of NeW York did that the coliege cannot live in the past, but • not remove from the cities in which they were 1uust address itself to the needs of present and founded, only sought a part of the city where prospective students. I have no authority to their accommodations would be better. speak for the Board of Trustees, but am con- In his second letter, after pointing out the vinced that they wiH do whatever seems to adaptability of Albany for a university, he gives ensure the greatest prosperity to the college.\ a sumtuary of the advantages which she would We are in 1~eceipt of a patnphlet that is being sent out by the Albanians concerned in the schetne of removing Union to that city, entitled \The Removal of Union College.\ The patnphlet was written by Prof. C. E. Franklin, of the class of ~83, and originally appeared in a series of four letters publiRhed in the Sunday Press of Albany. The subjects respectively of. the four letters are, '\The Plan is Not a New On e-N otab}e Exarnples of Shnilar Institutions Which Have Been 1\f oved \ ; '' The Advantages • Albany Would Derive-Ove1· $3oo,ooo Would be Added Every Year to the Money in Circu· lation in This City.\ \Advantages to the College in Rernoval-Why University CoUeges Succeed Best.\ '~ 'I'he Plan Proposed-Who Will Settle It-What the Prospects Are.\ derive by the removal which sutntnary is prac- tically as follows: ( r) over $35o,o::o would be added yearly to the money circulation in Albany; ( 2) it would give etuployment to ·a great many laborers in the tearing down of old and the erection of new buildings; (3) it would strengthen all real estate values and especially west end values ; ( 4) it would rnake a detnand for hotnes in the north, north-western and south ends of the city; (5) it would increase building; (6) the increase of Union's endowment would be expended there to the advantage of the city ; (7) it would save the citizen money by not having to send his son away to college ; (8) it would offer increased educational advantages to the city of Albany; (9) and last,\ but not the least, Union could be made co-educat-ional if so desired. In searching for the benefits that Union would derive by the retuoval, he finds one point and

ot a 187r, ·Con- the insti- with the . . fails did were the . gtves prac- . tn . to a old not it to the a! if and 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 even then he acknow:~edges that it is a debatable question. That point is that Union as a uni- • versity would succeed better th~n as a coHege. . The prelitn·inary conte&t for the selection of a He discusses at length the growth of our Ameri- : speaker to r~epresent Union at the annual ora- can universities, but he says. nothing of the • torical contest of the New York State Inter- growth of Union in the past few years. ~e • collegiate Oratorical League was held in the does, however, bring up incidentally the potnt . chapel 011 Monday afternoon, Feb. 24. Seven that Union would have a little more tnoney, for speakers ·contested for the appointtnent, and her gt·ounds in Dorp could be cut up and sold •· . 1 nuch enthusiasn 1 was displayed by the n1em- as building lots. ·. bers of the Philotnathean and Adelphic societies In his last paper he first discusses the manner . and by the others present. Everyone had their by which other colleges have be.en t·enloved, • favorite, and everyone magnified in their own using as exatnples the Western Reserve college • mind the oratorical capabilities and .merits of and Syracuse. Then he tells his schetne and .· that particular favorite. Th.e order of the the plan adopted by the meeting of January 25 · . speakers was determined according to class, and The tatter called for the setting aside of city . was as follows: lands or the purchase of suitable land by the · \The State and Emigration,\ Geo. J. Dann, Park commission; tb.e erection thereon of 1 , 9 6; \Earnestness the True Secret of Success,\ proper buildings, the bonding of the city to pay · z. L. 1\Iyers, ' 9 6; \ Down Eros, Up Mars,\ therefor, and the leasing of sucl1 land and build- G. L. Van Dusen, ' 9 6; \The Crescent or the ings to Union College in return· fo1· its grarrting Cross.,'' George .l:Toung, ' 9 6; \Cuba H. C. college instruction to the graduates of the city Allen, ' 9 8 ; \ A National Doctrine,\ Wtn. D. High School and the Boys~ and Brothers' · Reed, ' 9 8; \An E·mpire's Fall,\ VVaHer M. Academies. He then points out what New S ' 8 wann, 9 . York City has done for Columbia and the Uni- By the decision of the c0mmittee, consisting versity of New York i:n the last few years. He . of Prof. Truax, Prof. Patterson and Prof. Ben- cl~ses with a grand triibute to the college after nett, H. C. Allen, ' 9 8, won the appointment of adn1itting that if a satisfactory Jn~oposition were representing Union at the contest, and G. L. made the acceptance thereof would rest with Van Dusen was appointed alternate. Union's board of trustees.. The Inter-collegiate contest between Union, 'In looking over d1e citizens' com1nittee of Syracuse and Rochester will be held on April fifty which was recently appointed by Dr. 10 , at Rochester. With Allen, '98, as her Vander Veer and which is ai:so given in same representative, Union bas an excellent chance pamphlet one can readily see that it represents · of again carrying off the first honors. almost every vocatiol!l, calling- and interest in the city of Albany.. But when we cotne to count the natnes on the com·rnittee of fifty we find that it is a eorn>mittee of fifty-one. How is that ? P.fJ :Rfterpieee. (Written after reading the last number of THE CoNCORDIENSIS.) Girlibus schriekibus, falls to the floorum, Crvibus outibus,. ''wante S()ID.eorum,\ P;pabus callibus boy from the doorum, Boyibus comibus, kisses be:foreum.-JACK. Obituary--james (. Davis, '47· James E. Davis, of the class of '47, died of Bright's disease at his hotne in Schenectady on February 27. Mr. Davis was the son of the Rev. Edward Davis, D. D., a graduate of Union in the class of 1822. He was born at Burnt Hills, but had lived in Schenectady since he was 25 years of age. He was a well-known .and highly respected citizen and although a qualified lawyer, he had not for 11.1any years practiced the profession.

THE CONOORDlENSIS. University of Washington; Washington and Jefferson College of Washington, Pa. ; Boston ·. University and Holy Cross College of Worcester, Preparations are about cornpleted for the mid- winter tneet of the Athletic Association, to be . Mass. ,fl\id-Wil]t~r fneet. Amendments to the constitutioN were passed held Friday, March 13, in the Centre Street Opera House. The building has been renovated • concerning the time of holding the trial heats~ · and the order of events.. The amendment to in- and will be especially decorated for the occasion. · troduce the three tnile run was defeated. It was Manager Terry and Assistant Manager Herring and the conHnittee have spared no pains to make the n1eet the most successful ever held at tJnion. On it depends largely the inter-class athletic supretnacy for this year, and with this · · decided to hold the bicycle races on a separate . day from the rest of the events, the college winning the highest aggregate of points in these races to be credited with five points, the next two, and the third one. incentive every man in college should be present · The election of officers for the ensuing year as a spectator if not as a participant. Good resulted as follows: G. B. Kirby, Colutnbia ~music will be furnished, and a large number of .· College, president; R. D. Douglass, George- our friends of the gentler sex will be present, so town University, vice-president;. F. B. Ver- it will be a thoroughly enjoyable affair. The milyea, New York University, treasurer; A. events will last from 8 to II: 15 P. M., when D. Call, Brown University, secretary; ex- dancing will be on the program. The officials ecutive conHnittee-L. P. Sheldon, Yale; S. will be as follows : Referee, Dr. J. L. Patter- • M. Kendrick, University of Pennsylvania ; A. son; judges of field, F. H. Bowman, Columbia, f H fl .. p f M . d H. Bullock, Harvard; ]. R. Bowen, Cornell ; '92, Pro . o tnan, · ro . osher; JU. ges of Howard Bill, University of New York. Man- track, Prof. Bennett, W. S. McEwan, '95,. W. ager W. L. Terry was Union's delegate. L. Campbell;. tirners, A. J. Dillingham, '88, Gillespie, Med, '96, W. E. Underhill; measurers . of jutnps, Prof. Walker, Herring '96; starter, Dr. C. P. Linhart; scorers, Williatns, '97, Herring, '97 ; clerks of course, Beattie, '96, Holcomb, '98; judges of fencing and club swinging, Lieut. James Andrews, R. J. Landon, '84 ; rnarshals, Anthony, '96, Multer, '97, W. C. Yates, '98, Kellogg, '99· The comn1ittee is corn posed of Myers, '96, Herring, '97, Allen, ' 8 H' ' 9 , u1man, 99· The annualtneeting of the I. C. A. A. A. A. was held Saturday, Feb. 29, at the Fifth Ave- . nue Hotel, New York City. The executive cotnmittee of the association reported favorably in regard to the alliance with the A. A. U. and the alliance was ratified. The challenge from the Western Inter-collegiate Association was not accepted. The new colleges adtnitted to the association were the University of Wis- consin ; the University of Rochester ; Columbia The joint debate betvveen members of the Adelphic and Philotnathean societies has been the subject of consid.erable discussion during the past week. The Allison-Foote prizes which are based upon this contest give to this joint debate an added interest. It has been decided to hold t~e debate upon the evening of May 29, probably in one of the churches of the city. Last week both societies chos~ their representa- tives. From the Adelphic, Guernsey, '96, Myers, '96, an¢( Allen, '98; from the Philo- mathean, Hall, '96, Young, '96, and Hol- combe, '98. This contest promises to be one of the n1ost interesting events of the spring term. The question was chosen a short time ago, and is: Resolved, \That England's aggressive policy is for the best interests of civilization.\ Sides have not as yet been decided upon, but probably will be before long.

and . In- was liege next year A. ex- ; s. A. ; the been . hich joint ided 29, '96, ago, . but THE CONCORDIENSIS. of Washington Irving in Our Literature.\ For the rClark Essays the subjects are : (a) \ The , Enduring B:Ien'lent in the Poetry of Pope.\ The registration fo1· :Commence,m:ent prizes {b) \ The Americanism of Lowell.\ The sub- closed on Feb. z8, and the complete list :is. as · . f 1 H · 1 · ,, U 'd : 3ect o t 1e 1: an~oun socta ogy essay 1:s · n1 n follows: · CoUege; a Social Study.\ The subject of the Inghatn Essay Pri-ze for Seniol·s-C. W. A:lexander prk~;e has no1 yet been announced . Clowe, G. J. Dann, R. ·Guernsey, J. Wood .·. z. L. Myers, W. II. Hall, J. H. Dunham, · M. A. Twiford, A. B .. Vossler, G. E. Pollock, ;. <?:9~ 8op~Offi·Ore Soiree. H. Mallery, D. H. C1·aver, G. Young, M. H. 1 ! . . . • S . t. A S D ·b W L H . ·. . W L .• There were guls of faultless faces, dressed In satins, . rong. . . et y.,, . • • u.ggtns, . · .. .'l''- d , .. ' · s1 ~s aR ' :taees ; Terry. , 'There we11e men of handsome feattnes.; there Allen Essay Prizes f~r Seniors-C. W. Clow~, : was musi-c sweet galore; G. J. Dann, R. Guernsey, J. Wood, Z. L.' Thereweredanees,. graceful, very, buttheyreally Myers, W. IL Hall, J. H. Dunham, M. A. : lacked a :fairy Twiford, A. B. Vossler, G. E. Pollock, H.; Till~ith'f:l()urishofthecymbals\Willie\stepped · · ' 1.n on the floor. Mallery, D. H. Crave1·, ~G. Young, C. H. Vos- · 1 d t t 1 t dId ll' d 't\b. tb ·. . engage. as a e y par ne1· an. • a· 1e · w1 n. · e burgh, M. H. Strong, A. S. Derby, W. L. : waltz, Huggins, W. L. Ten~y. And by the ope,ration I dise[osed sorne grievous Harroun Prize for Seniors-C. W. Clowe, faults. G. J · Dann, R. Guernsey, J · Wood' Z · Myers, . For the music. much confused me and my partner M.A. Twiford, A. B. Vossler, G. E. Pollock, fairabus(ldme H. Mallery, D. H. Craver, G. Young, A. S. Derby, W. L. Huggins, W. H. Hall, M. H .. Strong. ·Clark Essay Prizes for Juniors-D. Wood, E. R. Cumings, S. E. Slocum, M. J. Multer, T. Hotaling, F. V. Hewitt, A. H. Winn. Junior Oratorical Prizes-0. B. Pershing, A. M. Blodgett, A .. H. Winn, F. T. Cady, M. J. Multer, J. C. Cooper, R. A. Pearse, H. C. Todd, D. Wood, F. V. Hewitt. Sophomore Oratorical Prizes-T. A. Crich- ton, P. P. Sheehan, F. E. Cullen, C. H. Utter, P. Nelson, J. E. Fisher, W. A. P. Earles, J. H. Manger, W. E .. MetTitnan, H. R. Hover, G. C. Perry, H. E. Barbour, W. B. Reed. Alexander Prize in Extetnporaneous Speak- ing (to all classes)-R. Guernsey, '96, J. Wood, '96, z. L. Myers, '9&, G. E. Pollock, '96, D. H. Craver, '96, G. Young, '96, M. H. Strong, 'g6, 0. B. Pershing, '97, W. M. Swann, '98, P. P. . Sheehan, '98, W. B. Reed, '98, C. H. Mattison, P. Nelson, 'g8, H. ·C. Allen, '98,. J. H. Man- ger, '98 . The subjects announced for the Ingham Essays are: (a) \The ReJation of Tennyson's' Idylls of the King' to S()urces.\ (b) \The Place For the inar-tistic n1anner that I trod upon her toes. When I tried to pose as graceful, sorn e one surely got a fac-eful- In reversing I was certain to collide with some one's nose. But once -wben leading boldly up the middle of the ft()or I met a noble Senior, saying \Stop that nonsence; for You've disgra~ed the Hill society; beneath tha,t face of piety There lurks a heart untutored of the proper wa,y to da:nce; Your pardner (he bowed lowly) is being n1urdered slowly By the hype1·-fi-ji motion of your realistic prance. You're a rather decent fellow and we hate to do youdh·t, But try a:nothel' movement and I'll promise you'll be hur,t.'\ A.nd he waltzed off with my lady while \yours truly.,\ fe~ling shady, :Sought seclusion in the cellar where I might be all alone. There I sat awhile and pondered, then mechani- cally wandered Far away fr()rn waltzs, two-steps and Gioscia's merry t<>ne. w. G. K., '99.

I '· io THE dONCORD!E·NstS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUELISHED ON ALTERN ATE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR . BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF' EDITORS: M.AJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. VI ALTER L HUGGINS, '96, Business Manager .. WmLLIAM H. HALL, '96, Literary Editor. Enw ARD E.. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business :l\fanag·er. WILbiAM F. CHERRY, '97, ·} F. P .ACKARD PALMER, '97, . Assistant Editors. Hu:BBELL RoBINSON, '97, .·· CARL HAMMER, '98, I WILLIAM D. REED, '98, t P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, 'I Reportorial Staff. F. Boss, '98, J L ~fc CLINTOCK, '97, t Medical College. R. VAN BEUSEKOM, f E. S. BROWN, Law School. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2 00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 15 CENTS. Address all comn1unications to THE CoNCORD!- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are :requested to n1ake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as !'iecond-class matter. OHAS. BURROW5, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE Ha1nilton College Reviev' has published an editorial. Of course there is nothing surprising in that fact, for the editor of that 5ournal is par- ticulal\ly noted for his editorial ability; but some- tinles the prope.r theme is wanting,. and under such circumstances one n1ust be discovered. And we suppose that it was in such .an extren1ity that thiS' editor decided to discuss athletics at Union. If the dear boy will accept a word of advice at this point we would say that he should be sure of his ground before making any editoriaill assertions. And if he will apply a little of his simple arithmetie to the \rigid Yale rule\ he will find that at Union the students have to n1aintain a grade several degrees higher than at Yale in order to be sus- tained. If he also thinks that ''Union men claiin that it would be impossible to have good teams under such a regin1e,\ we would point to the twenty-five men in the gymnasium every day try- ing for the base-ball teain and to the universal interest being Inanifested in the track work, and the great nurn ber of entries there have been for the mid-winter meet. This doesn't sound at all like discouragernent. No, Mr. Edito11, you had better try again on son1e other thenxe, and we wish you better success. IT IS very pleasing to notice the increased in- terest that is being n1anifested in debates, not only at Union but throughout the college world. For a few years debating seemed to be dead, but recently it has showed of reviving, and is now . . 1·apidly assuming a prominent place in college life. THE Advisory Board of THE CONCORDIENSIS, consisting of Prof. Hale, the editor-in-chief and · the literary editor, has selected as editor-in-chief for the coining college year Mr. F. Packard Palrner, '97. No Hterary editor has yet been chosen. owing to the fact that, of the other two ·. J tuliors on the editorial board, Mr. Cherry has left eoUege and Mr. Robinson resigned from the board at the beginning of the present college year. The . . Advisory Board has further decided that in order to choose a literary editor to fill the office next year a new corn petition will be opened at once, to which all Juniors in regular standing are eligible. The selection will, a~ before, depend on the amount and the quality of the work done rluring ihe remainder of the present college year, and at its end the literary editor will be selected. All those who intend to enter in this co1npetion must hand their names to the editor-in-chief before Mal'ch 20. The office is a good one and has a srnall salary connected, with it, and there should be 1nany to try for it. This is as it ought to be; for debating is as essen- tial to rnental training as regular athletic work is to a good physical developn1ent. There is nothing that so increases the activity of the rnind as meet- ing with others in debate. To have an opinion is a good thing, to be able to express it to others and to defend it from. attack is far better. It is one of the best possible exercises for developing a broadness of mind and an acuteness of thought. So we must hail with delight the fact that students everywhere are becoming more and more in- terested in their debating societies. The winter · terrn is now looked upon as the time for inter- collegiate debates and oratorical contests just as . the fall is for foot- ball and the SlJl'ing for base- ball. We are not of the number that think that the brain worker is the only one entitled to honor in the college, but much less do we praise one who has merely trained his body; we <;lo believe, however, that the two can work together, and that if they do the best results will be attained. Each year at Union more interest centres around the Allison- Foote debate and the inter-collegiate oratorical league; we hope their feeling will continue to increase, and that Union will soon take a high rank in brain contests with other colleges.

e- d d r s s ' TilE C'ON:OO:RDIENSIS. 11 WHAT should be the work of a press club in a col:lege? This ls a question that is hard to anE'wer, because at Union it has arnounted to little for the f\lma tnater. Tear Old Union fron the hillside, where her loyal past few years. 'The club rneets, elects officers, and then w·aits for the next rr1eeting in order to .· sons weTe born, elect other officers. But it seetns as though such . Bear her to another city,. somewhat nearer to the t . . h h t' d morn? an organiza Ion nng · t ave .a n1ore energe :rc an · · useful existence than this. .With all the con1pli- 111ents that are heard concerning over~ambitious l'eporters, who, in their zeal, write up everything · regardless of its ~effect, it seems as though a press club might find a large field of labor. In the first place it ought to be a creation of the student body, and like other coHege organi,zations, be und~r its coa~rol; in the second place it should have an active representative of the ~aculty on its execu- tive co1nmittee; and in the third place it Hhould have control over all newpaper correspondents in the college. By sorne means it should have power to hold all reporters responsible for whatever reports are sent to papers. The idea would not be to exercise a censorship over the press, but 1nerely to place a ·check upon over-zealous aspirants for newspaper renown. A great many things take place that are of interest only to the college in whieh they occur, and wheR read outside sound entirely different... Some one :should control these Jnatters, and this is certainTy the work of the pres~ club. Would it not be well for Union's press club to begin sotne move1nent of this sort? It cannot be completed in a year, but now is the tiine to begirt, in order that next year may receive the benefit. This space :for once will have to be occupied by a glorification and relation of the experiences of the Editorial Board itself. We do not intend to be behind in any particular, whether it be love, war, or peace. \But it is in regard to the first that we have most positively demonstrated our ability. Of course it is generally known that the whole . Board is capable of loving and being loved, but only one of its men1bers has .carried that capability to its final completion. This fact has caused us to lose one fro In our nu1nber; but since his own testi- mony is that he has gone to Hve in elysian fields · and feed on an1brosia, we rest content for we know tlrat such an abode and such. fare must be more . pleasant than that accorded to editors. In other words, Williatn F. Cherry, forn1erly of the class of ninety-seven, has got married; he has taken unto hin1self a wife; he has established a home of his own. We wish him all joy in his new departure; may his elysian fields ever grow broader and his quantity of a·mbrosia ever grow greater. Plnek her gr-ay robes frorn the campus, snatch away her golden zone, Clothe her in more youthful .garments, seat her on another throne? Calmly there beside the Mohawk, thronged with hopes lLnd doubts and fears, She has sat in stately splendor, smiling through a hundred years. In the dhn aisles of her forests, we have wandered undisn1ayed, Singing in the summer breezes, undeJ.~n.eath her elm trees' shade. We have seen. the purple shadows gather round her laughing rills, Watched the erirnson sunset fading on the lovely western bills. Often on the baln1y evenings, in a m uflled under- tone, Floated voices of her singers seated on the grand old stone. 0, our mother, noble hearted, will thy sons so recreant prove, That another hon1e shall claim thee, shielded by anothe1· love'? No, our mother, thou may'st wither, feebly breathe thy latest sigh, Fold thy gray robes close a bout thee, calmly lay thee down to die. While the clouds and darkness gather, in the uni- versal gloom, On the carnpu.s that thou lovest, we will lay thee in thy ~tomb. Cold shall be the sno·ws above thee, wintry winds shall o'er thee .sweep, Eut no storm shall ever harm thee, sleeping there thy lasting sleep. AN ALUMNUS. Paper I gave and envelopes At parting to my fairy, But littl€ thought, for weeks and Inonths 'Twould. .still be stationary.

12 THE CONO·ORDIENSIS. Cullen, '98, spent Sunday, February 23, with Flynn, '98, ·at the latter's home in Lansing- burgh. Brown, '97, spent Su11Gay out of town. • 99 has finished reading L' Histoire d'un Pay- Prof. Winans was caHed away a few days !J ast san and has taken up Trois :Contes Choisis par week. Daudet. E. P. McKeefe, '98, was in Saratoga on A. S. Derby, ' 9 6, was at his horne in Sandy Friday. . Hill Saturday and Sunday. He was accom- Lawrence, '99, spent Saturday and Sunday 111 • panied by M.A. Twiford, '96. Albany. The class of'99 have ordered their class canes. Sullivan, '97, has returRed to college .afte1· a · They a~·e to be of congo wood with a silver tip short illness. on which is engraved \'U. C., '99·\ The Glee Club was photographed at Talbot's, Wilson, • 99 , who has been spending several February 26. weeks in Bennuda for the benefit of his health Ayrault, '95, spent several days recently with ' is repo 1 ·ted as ,much better and is expected back fl 4 iends on the hill. to college soon. Blessing, '94, has been spending a few days D. Howard Craver, '96, has returned to col- in the city visiting friends. lege after a long and serious illness of typhoid Bradford, '99, has recovered frotn his recent . fever. Mr. Craver brings back with him ''a iilness and is back at college. little bunch of whiskers.'; J. I. Edwards 1nade a sb.ort visit with bis . Besides the sarnples of base-ball goods he has brother Prof. Edwards last week. also samples ofsweaters, running pants, running Beardsley, '99, has been confined to his room . shoes, shirts, etc. The fellows should look at for several days because of illness. his samples and order their athletic goods from Bonesteele, '99, is in1proving and expects to h' 1m. return before the close of this tenn · Ripley A. Lyon, a graduate of Union, while Dr. C. P. Linhart was ,called away last week . returning to his home at Logan, Utah, after a because of the death of his mother· visit with relatives in this city, was stricken with Yates, '98, was confined to his house a few typhoid fever, and is now seriously ill at a days last week on account of illness: hospital in Salt Lake City. B. H. Boorne, '96, spent Saturday and Sun- Scofield, ex-'96, Van Denburg, Med. '97, day at 1 1 is ho1me in Schenevus, N. Y. , Johnson, Med., ' 9 5, W. R. B~rown, '98, Cham- Mr. and Mrs. Mann of Albany spent Februat-y pion, , 99 , and Booth, ex-'98, attended the 25 in this city with their son Ma~n, '99· Washington's Birthday banquet of the Schenec- Dr. Raymond introduced MaJor Pond, who tady Washington Continentals. lectured at the Van Curler, February 2 8. Dr. Truax on Thursday, February 27, cle- F. Little, '97, who was compelled to leave livered before the Century Club at Amsterdatn college on account of illness has returned. an address on the subject, \'A Lesson from the Rockwell H. Potter, '95, now of Yale, is ill Netherlands.\ Last Friday he also gave one with measles at his hotne in West Glenville. of his lectures in the Salern University Exten- Gymnasiur:n practice wa.s suspended for the sion Course. past two weeks on account of _the extrem.e cold. Major Alien Twiford spent Saturday and The Sophomores have firnshed . r~achng_ the Sunday in Glens Falls looking after the interests Adelphoe and have taken up Juventle s SatH()S. · of the p 1 ·ess Cl uh. As pTesident of the club he A phrenologist has been going the rounds of has a vexy itnportant schemeon hand to advance the college for sotne titne past. Did you bite ? · the influence of the press. It will be fully Sherwood, '99 and Medbery, '99, spent Feb- announced to the students as soon as arrange- ruary ~ 9 and Jvlarch r at their hotnes in Ballston ments have been perfected ; and it is sure to arouse universal interest. Spa.

m- es. tip ''a at a ne he to THE CJ:ONC·O:RDIENSIS. 13 · LB~I)Y L~m SC .. OOL ~~ The result of the examinations on tl\l'e first semester's work has been tnade kaown to the students and all seern very well pleased. The showing rnade is highly satis- factory to the faculty, and shows ihat their work has been well done. Mr. Sawyer has recovered ftotn a three veel:s illness and his smiling countenance again adorns the lecture room. Mr .. Lawson received an enthusiastic r-ecep- tion from the students at his first appearance in the lecture hall this tenn, which was last Tuesday, when he began his lecture on pe1:sonal property. The Law School has several candidates for positions on the University ball team. They are all good ones. President B·rown was in Syracuse severaT days last week on business. f\IUfl\I]i Notes. . Gl{eta Delta Gau. J n 1890 there was founded at Union College a Freshtnan society by th~ name of Theta Delta Tau. Chapters were given to Han\lilton College and to the University of Rochester, and at the . present titne both are in a very flourishing con- dition. The A1pha Chapter at Union, how- ever, did not seetn to flourish and after a tim.e d.ied out altogether. The following tnembers 0f the class of '99 have reorganized the society · which again gives the chapter at ''Old Union\ . good prospects: J. L. Sherwood, F. N. Fisk, Fred. Miles 2nd, L. C. Barry, W. Tucker, G. ·c. Foote, W. E. Brown, W. T. Stone, H. J. Hinman, M. M. Price, J. E. Sawyer, E. W .. Strong, S. C. Medbery, J. N. Vander Veer, :G. W. Mead. Last Friday evening the Psi Upsilon fraternity ' . gave another of their very enjoyable\ smokers.' . A number of the Faculty, the Senior class and ·. several frotn the other classes were present, and spent the evening in a very pleasant manner. , Pipes decorated with the fraternity colors were : presented to the guests, and with sn:1oking, ·. cards and conversation the titne passed quickly. '75-Rev. J. G. Lansing, D. D., professor of: ~r. Buck ren?~red several selections on ~he Old Testament languages and Exegesis in New :; ptano. Then wtth college .songs and da~ctng Brunswick Theological Seminary' recently pub- :: the. company broke up, voting the reception a lished a book for the use of students in the :' decided success. seminary entitled '' Introductory Outlines of the !~ Books ofthe Old Testament.\ The book has !. · Professor Olin H. Landreth has been ap- become so popular that an edition will so()n be i, .. pointed conbulting engineer of Eltnira to take prepared for the public. l the place of Hon. Martin Schenck who recently '94-. Raymond Lansing recently attended the i resigned. Prof. Landreth has been n1aking an Inter-Setninary Missionary Convention at Hart- i investigation of the recent epidetnic in that city ford, Conn., as a delegate from the New :Bruns- j and its causes. wick Seminary· BASE-BALL .. -· The students who intend '95-]ones, has secured a position in the •. playing base-ball this season can secure catchers' office of the Chief Engineer of the Chattan.Qoga, , mitts, fielders gloves, ball shoes and other base- Nashville & St. Louis R. R. at Nashville. ball supplies from Hegeman '99, who repre.- '95-· W. L. Sawyer was recently <3lected · sents Hulbert Bros. & Co., of New York, Justice of the Peace at Sandy Hill, running· dealers in all ktnds of Athletic and Gymnasium ahead of his ticket. goods.

ll ·- .ADVERTISEMENTS. -------- PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. Oh the danci,ng ! ' . Oh, the glancing ! Oh, the loveliness ent1·ancing I When soiree belles. come. Oh, the moaning ! Oh, the groaning ! Ob, t.he awfui pawn-shop ~oaning I When soiree bills com·e. STENOGRAPHY. ---H• ~'~ DICTAT10N TAKEN ! AND NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORA170NS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COPIED. B. E. HUGGINS, 22M. S. :S. C. ALL \\VORK CONFIDENTIAL. · CHAUN(JEY FRENCH. WILLIAM R. FOX •. (Successors to VossLER & Nellis). 33 N. S. S.C. The Union College Book Excbange still contjnues to receive or.ders for all kinds of Text Books, Fountain Pens, Engineer~ s & Drau ghtsmen's Supplies. T ahlets, Pencils, Inks and Second Hand Books· always :kept in stock . . . . fHE 'LA TEST THING IN \UNION\ STATIONERY JUST RECEIVED. Compare our prices with those of the city book stores and give us a trial. FAIR TREATMENT TO ALL. J Qtimesoutof J Q The New 'York Journal recently of- fered ten bicycles to the ten winners in a guessing contest, leaving the choice of machine to each. ALL CHOSE Columbia Bicycles Nine immediately, and one after he had looked at others. The Journal therefore bought TEN ·Columbias at $tOO each. On even terms a Columbia will be chosen TEN times out of TEN. POPE MANUFACTURING CO. HARTFORD, CONN. 1896 Art Catalogue for two 2-cent stamps. ESTABLISHED 1818. B R 0 0 K S B R 0 T H E R S, Broadway, cor. 22d St., N.Y. City. Clothing and Furnishing Goods, READY MADE .A.ND MADE TO MEASURE. Our stock for Fall and Winter of 1895-96, now ready in all departments, will be found especially complete and attractive. For Clothing to order we offer a selection of al] the various materials now popular in London, with proper facilities for executing orders with the least possible delay. · The particular care exercised by us in the cut, manufacture and novelty of patterns in our Men's . Ready Made Garrnents is also extended to our CLOTHING FOR BOYS AND CHILDREN, and guarantees exclusive styles; at the sa1ue thne :the NECESSITY FOR MODERATE PRICES ha.s not been overlooked. Our Furnishing Goods Department contains the usual con1plete line of standard goods besides novelties in Shetland and Fair Isle Sweaters, Lamb's Wool Jackets, etc., etc. Our location one block froru Madison Square, is convenient to the leading hotels .and easy of access from the principal railway stations in New York and vicinity. - - c pn< SU}: 1 anc Or by 1 na El wi = F

THE CONOORDIENSIS. GIVE YOUR PATRON ... I\GE TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTHD IN UNION. Owting for March is .a delightful number. Many · hea;g,Uful iHus.trations add to the attractiveness of seasonable ta[es of sport, travel and adventure the world ove,r. The contents are as follows: ''Duck Shooting ·on Savannah River''; \Incognito by Oaroitine Shelley; \A Cycling Trip in Trinidad,\ by Hy .. Macbeth; \Wild Sport in Ceylon,\ by F. F. D:ix:on; ''Across the Mesaba, '' by Janet Shepard; \AJitong the Russian Bea1~s,\ by Fred. Whishaw; ''LEJnz's World ·Tour A wheel\; ''About the Balea- ric's,\ by Chas. Edwardes; \Adolph by Therese ·• 6. Randall; ''Model Yachts,\ by Franklin Bass- :1. ' . ford ;. '•Faculty Control of Athletics at English 01..:Lt NO- Universities,\by.T.W.LaingandW W.Bolton; st:raigb.t Oiga:rettes,. ''Na-tional G-uard of Nevada,'' by Lieut. W. R. Ha.n11dlton, and the usual editorials, poe1ns, l'e- Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the cord:s, etc. price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND W 1th the March issue, the Atlantic Monthly· be- superior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored gins two irnportant series of papers. The Irish in and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. Thi~; is the Old and Original Brand of St1•aigb.t Cut Cigarettes, and was houe;ht out Airnerican Life, by H. C Mervin, is the first of the by us in the year 1875· · d t• ] R Ch t · t'' · A BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observe that the firm pror.n1se ar l.C es on • ace · arac er1s ICS In · mer- name as below, is on every package. ica:n Life. Under the general beading The Case ALLEN & GINTER, The American Tobacco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~(: CITY ~Y: TROUSERS ~~ CO., .. ~ E. F. DALY. ~. FiNE CuST~o11' TAito_R_IH~c.. .A.T LO\\VV J?~J:CES. duits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4 U'p. Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a postal card and our representative (0. E. 11ENNESY) will call. 149 80. GENTRE STREET. Next door to Barhydt House. of -the Public SchooL 'The first issue is by G-. Stan!ley Hall, President of Clark University, Wor- cester, Mass. The Presidency and .Secretary Mor- ton is the second paper in the series of political studies. A Serninary of Sedition is another of Jol1n Fiske's historical studies in Old Virginia. There are :further Memories of Hawthorne, by his COAL.~ • -------- COAL. BUY YOUR GOAL OF * COAL. W. P. GARNSEY, Office, 433 State Street. Yard, 229 Park Place. .,-- COAL .. ~·A. BROVVN & SON,~ FURNITURE AID BEDDING ~ ALL ~s lk_ FOR ® STUDENTS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOU·SE IN SCHENECTAD·Y.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR ADVJl}RTIRER8. daughter; Edith :Brower discusses E. A. MacDo- well in New Figures in Literature and Art; there is a third of Mrs. Catherwood's Studies in Pro- vincial France; and Eugenia Skelding pictur- esquely describes a visit to the Holy Island of Lindisfarne. Dul'ing these months of extraordinary unrest in foreign politics, the Review of Reviews devotes it~ attention in large rr1easure to international affairs. Its editorial departruent discusses matters in South Af:rica, the attitude of ·the great European powers, and the most recent phases of the n1ove1uent among the nations for the arbitration of disputes; the March number also contains a most thuely article on \The Government of France and its Re- cent Ch.anges,\ by Baron Pierre de Cou bertin; \A Review of Canadian Affairs,'' by J. W. Russell, and a character sketch of ''Cecil Rhodes, of Africa,\ by \V. T. Htead. It can hardly be said that the 1leview of llevie~os is narrowly provincial in its outlook on n1en and events ! 127 JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per term, strictly ) } J in advance. ~ - - - - - .-:::: ... :::.:-.:· ... ::::.:·:: ..... - ... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::7::::::::::::::.·:::::::.·::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :=::.::::.-.:;;;::::: .... ::::.-.:::.-.::::.- .. :::; .. :::::.::::.-.::;:.:::: .... ::::.::::::~::::.::::: .. ::::.:::::.:::::.::::.:::::.::::.:::;:.::::.:::::.:::::.:::::.::: - -· - - 129 WALL ST., Op.p. Post Office. The largest and finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. WE C-OULD tfOT . IMPROVe THe QUA IP PAID· D\OUBLe THE PRIC,f A 2 ·03. TRI·AL PAtKAuE .. ~..-.~ ... \t<\~C' POST PAID !bJJ-:r. FOR 25 CENT.S. · MARBURG BROS. ~ ~~~~~THe AME'RIC..AN TOBAUO CO·~ ~~\111 BALTIMORE, MD. WILLIAM 'DOBERMANN, --- Gf\TERER FOR--- EDDINGS, .. • • • .L::::::=.=--SU PPER8, Ei'G. VARIETY OF ICE CREAM AND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND. . • • • • • • • FRIED OYSTERS $2 PER HUNDRED. • • • • DOBE~MANN'S ~ESTitAU~ANrrt t 04 !!!! t 06 WALL STREET. OysteT Stew in Pail to take Home, 25 cents. Oyste'l' or· Clam FT'If in a BQ(XJ' 25 cents. = l i I 1

------- ADVERTISEMENTS. --- 17 READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. • FOR FOR SALE. TO LEASE. MANU ·FACTORIES · --========\ .~ ~·AND DWELLINGS .. . .---;- _______. -~ - :-::::::=- . ·O 0 ·~ ~· FOR RENT·~ l-4>---- Dwelling Houses and Flats Excellently Located, Adapted to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Un,ion College. 85 ·BORDEN AVE., LONC ISLAND CITY.

18 -- ADVERrriSEMENTS. ·------ • j pc; 0 ~ 1-1 ~ E---i : CJ z 1-1 :~ ., > . !JJ 0 :. UNION 'C'OLLECE ~ SOUVENIR. SPOONS, ~ FLAG PlNS, E'TG . Q ~· w M C/2 t--3 :; SF\ND:ERS' cJE'WEL·E'R8, .~ w ~ b I. LEVINE, Cfl ·~· 0 0 ·~ Van CurlerOpera House Block. LOWEST PRICES. ; lllfllYLE & SO,N, ~ * EJj$1RAVERS, * _.._ __ ALBANY, N. Y ..• AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dre~sing , Opp. Edison Hotel (up stairs.) · USE A. SCHMIDT'S NEW DlSCDVE&Y FOR lHB HAIR. 13AI1HITE & DEVENPE:CI{, . • . . . . Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Coal, .!Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 axnd 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M. G. A.~=====---. ~tc ~E~1F{Ill~llN1F, jte-+ . ---===-==CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. .Q'>Meal Tickets will be sold to Students only ..... . . . . ... for $3.00 for 2I Tickets. A certain Cllre for Dandruff, Scalp : · and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. =================== PHOTO~GitAPHIC SUPPijiES .... Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs, · Full lines of Leading Makes of . . . . • At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. CiEO. H .• Q\IARJ:)J.NEEK., Successor to J. N. McDonald. WILSON DAVIS, I •• I MJ£R.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544: Droadway, Albany, N. Y ' 237 STATE Sr .... .ScHENECTADY N.Y. 1 . 1 ' ' t J

G®NG®RDIENSIS. VoL. XIX. UNION COLLEGE, MARCH 25, 189·6. No. 12. .prof~55or fl·sl]more'5 SecoiJd Ce'tter. '' * * * Since I last wrote I have been · busy with a variety of things-all tending, how- · ever' in one direction, the study of the past .• One acquires in Rot1Je, almost unconsciously, the habit of valuing everything by a single standard, the standard of age. It i:s a bad habit, in my estimation, and yet a difficult one for some people to shake off. The German Arch- reological Institute here is doing a good deal of work just now. Prof. Hale put >tne in the way, the other .day of hearing a discussion between Petersen, Man and H ulsen on the subject of the . wall-paintings iR the palaces of the Cresars, of which large remains have been brought to light on the Palatine Hill. N\ot an uninte1~esting feature of the occasion was the presence of the great Theodor Mommsen.· I never saw him before, and though he did not speak, he is quite a curiosity to look at; a small tnan with a big head and a very prominent nose. He is seventy- six ·vears old, and went to sleep w bile the gen- tlet~en I have mentioned were talking. All the same, he is to the rest of the n1en of his class, and in his sphere of labor, much the same that Gladstone has been, or Bistnarck, in the domain of politics-distinctly a leader. in explaining the casts .at the Lateran, taken from the reliefs Olil Trajan's ·Column. These casts are attached t() the walls of two ilnmense haUs in the Latera] Museutn, and run twice around each hall. ·The reliefs are retnarkable, as you probably kn()w, not only for their beauty but for the minutle details of R.otnan life- especial(y ~camp life-which they iHustrate. A course in palreography :also, at the Vatican, by a 1n:an I do not knoy;v, has been thrown open to the students of the scho@l, and this also has to he scheduled for .the.m. Consequently their · hours each day are ~en filled in, and they seem to he exceedingly busy and hard at work. Prof. Hale has spent a great deal of time in arranging for all these things, and has had hard work sometimes in his efforts to overcotne the difficulties which beset the path of any man seeking access to privileges usually accorded 011ly to those who aJ;e willing to pay for thetn. He has been very- obliging to me, and has thrown many thing:s in tny way which I couid not have. secured ;v.vithout his help. He does very little teaching: hin1self. He has not time for it, but this month l-1e has undertaken to give son~e instruction it!l epigraphy in the Galleria L.apldaria at the Vatican. His class meets hitn there twice a wee:k, and he holds a F>ona fide Prof. Hale brought with him several of the young students of the school. A large part of Hale's work as director of the school is to arrange for just such opportunjties as this for his pupils. For example: They were treated to a course of topography with · Hulsen in October and November ; they are taking a course now in Numisrnatics with an· Italian specialist at the Vatican, and another course in general antiquities, art, &c., with .Petersen. The latter gives his talks at the museums. I have been to one or two of then1. He was lecturing on the Diocletian Museum a week or • two a~o (one a. week), and at present is engaged · · reci1tation on the text of the stones collected there. This itnme1~se collection was made by an archreologist named Marini during the last century. 1 he stones are let into the wall, which in this way is covered with inscriptions fro.m end to end. The gallery is about five hundred feet in length. Moreover, the inscrip- . tions are arranged ~in groups, or classes, accord- ing to their character, whi~h renders them especially available for teaching .purposes, a~d to studv them thus in the stone 1s more satls- factory~ for several reasons, than to work at them in the books, though the two methods may well be and ar.e cotn bined. Pr.of. Hale allows me to meet hnn on these occasions, and . d 1 l>_ d. 1 * * *'' l have enJoye t 1e wor~ excee 1ng y.

THE O:QNOORDIENSIS. fire had burned itself out and had left behind a few portions of brick waHs and chimneys. An this :time, however, n1any willing and At about eleven o'clock Tuesday evening, eager hands had been at work saving the house- March 1 7, the inhabitants of Schenectady were · hold goods. Everything in the lower story was startled by the sounding of fire alarms and the carried out in safety ; but no one was able to go students at the coUege were aroused fr<:>tn their · to the second floor because the fire had started diligent work over text books by the c~:ackling ·· on th·e stairs. Dr. and Mrs·. Foster escaped of flames. Looking from their windows the . safely but lost all of their dothiri.g, saving not house of Dr. John Foster at the north e11d of the • even a hat 01 . cloak. The building was insured terrace was discovered to be in full b1aze. A · but the contents had no insurance. crowd of neighbors and students soon assentbled: The destruction of this building will certainly and hastened to save the contents of the house. · bring a sigh. of regret from a great 1nany, es- T he fire was caused by the droppililg of a · pecially of the older alumni. Tl1e building was larnp by Dr. Foster while ascending the stairs . one of the fin;t to be erected, being built in I814. to his room. The oil frorn the lamp ran into Until r86o 'it was known as North College the cracks between the boards and <>ver the Boarding House. It was then refitted and has stairs so that the fire quickly spread, getting ' since been the residence of Dr. Foster. Around under the floor and thus defying all efforts made that building cling 111 any ~memories of the past. to extinguish it. Seeing that the fire was beyond It was one of the places that alt:1mni delighted control the inn1ates called for assistance but to visit. Though remodeled, the building was '\vere unable to rnake any one hear. It was the satne in vvhich the boys used to assemble several tninutes before help could be su tnmoned three times a day; there were the san1e old from Mr. Benedict's and by that time the fire had · walls., ,the same rooms, the same great brick spread greatly. Owing to a disarrangement of oven in the kitchen; there could be lived over the fire alarm box at the corner of Foster avenue, again many of the scenes of college days. And valuable tilne was lost in sending in an alarm. besides this, for the past thirty-five years it has It was at length accon1plished, however, and . been the home of one of Union's most popular within a half an hour or rnore the fhe d:epart- professors. Everyone extends his sytnpatby to ment had arrived on the_ scene. But the neigh- \Jack\ Foster in the loss he has sustained. boring hydrants were either frozen_ or sto~ped One day the old house was a pleasant home, the with 1nud so that no water could be ()btained . next four blackened walls awakened all the until two companies had coupled their ho&e and me~ories of what had been. found a distant hvdrant. All this time the fire was burning furi~usly and had reached the attic and was bursting through the roof. Such a long stretch of hose and such stnall watel' mains effectually relieved the pressure that the pun1ps at the waterworks were exerting, and the stream which issued from the nozzle was so feeble that the pipeman was able to place his finger over the nozzle in order to n1ake a spray. However a ladder was erected against the front wall and two firetnen dragged up the hose and the muddy liquid issuing fron1 it. A few minutesw.as spent on the ladder and then the attention of the cotn- panies was turned to saving the woodf:lhed, the only part of the building not on. fire. So the yyorl~ of ~xtinguishing went nobly on until the ~ ~ QiJQ.ry. Did you ever notice this: When a fellow steals a kiss From a righteous little maiden caln1 and meek, How her Scriptural training shows In not turning up her nose, But in simply turning round her other cheek? -Cornell Widow. Prof. Pepper gave an address before the Society for the Pron1otion of Useful Reading 01~ Marcb ~o, his subject being '' Spain~\ ~- ' j 1 b 1J v r c a . 1 :: . t { 1 f t t (

THE CONCORDIENBIS. 5 The sum.mary of events was as follows : I. MHe walk-· won by Cotton, '97, time 7 The annual tuid-winter 111eet of the Athletic . rnin. 42 3'\'5 sec.; second, Todd, '97; third, Association was held at the Centre Street Opera Vroman, '98. House on the evening of March 13 . The . 2 • 25 yards dash-won by 'Taylor, '96, time building had been very prettily decorated with . 3 2 -5 sec.;; second, Myers, '96; third, Sands, '98. bunting and flags for the occasion. The meet · 3· 440 yards run-· won hy Sands~. '98, titne I was a success frotn every point of view, and , m'in. 4 3-5 sec. ; seconcl, Sommer, '98. reflects. n1uch credit to the .m.anager and the : 4· 88o yards run-won by I<.ilpatrick, '98, comtnitte~ of arrangements. Every chair and : ti~e 2 rnin. 9~ sec.; second, Cregan, '99; aU available standing room was occupied by · thud, Sommer, 'g6. interested spectators, V\rho displayed great en- ·. 5· One .mile run-won by Kilpatrick, 'g8, thusiasm as one ~fter another event was run off. ·· time 4 n1~in. 51 2-5 sec. ; second, Wright, '99; Never since athletics have been inb~oduced at third, Hartnagel, 'g8. Union have so many new ~records been estab- • . 6. Putting I 2 lb. shot-won by Myers, 'g6, 1ished at a single n1ee:t. In the mile walk, the • dt~tance 42. ft. 10}lz in.; second, Taylor, '96; first event of the evening, :Cotton, , 97 , clipped . thud, McMillan, 'g8. I r seconds from the college record, reducing it • . 7 · Running high kick-won by Myers, 'g6, to 7 min .. 42 3-5 sec. Then Taylor, , 9 6, put . distance 8 ft. 11 in. ; second, De Y oe • 9 s; third, the 25 yards dash at 3 2-5 sec. Following . Fisher, '98. closely on the excellent exhibitions of speed, · 8. Running high jump-won by Campbell, Kilpatrick appeared in the mite run and lowered '96, height 5 ft. 4~ in.; second, Pildain, '96; his indoor record for that distance to 4 min. , thi1·d, Hinman, 'g6. 5~ 2-5 sec.. In this event Wright, • 99 , proved 9· Fencing-won by Anthony, '96; second, h1mself to be a runner of much protninence. Swann, '98; third, Merriman, 'g8. Sands, 'g8, and Cregan, ' 99 , ran well in their IO. C1ub swinging- won by Fisher, ' 9 8; respective events, the quarter and half, but were second,. Xetchum, '90; third, Cullen, '98. not pushed to make record tilne. The field . I I 25 yards hurdle-won by 1\1yers, ' 9 6, eve~ts were also closely contested. Myers hme 4 sec.; second, Crothers, '98; third, earned off the honors in the shot put, and broke Vroman, 'g8. his recent Cooperstown record by putting the I 2 The officials were as follows: Referee, Dr. pounds shot 42 ft. 10~ in. The running high . t L. Patterson; judges of field, F. H. Bowman, ju~p. was prettily contested by Campbell and · olumbia, '92, Prof. Hoffman, Prof. Mosher; Plldatn, the former winning with the bar at 5 judges of track, Prof. Bennett and W. S. :1\tfc- ft. 431! in. Ewan, '95, and W. L. Campbell; timers, A. J. The clasR competition for points was spirited Dillinghatn, '88, Gillespie, Med., ' 9 6, W. E. throughout, and was closed with the following Underhill; measurers of jumps, Prof. Walker, results: Herring, '96; starter, Dr. C. P. Linhart; scorers, CLASS. Williarns,, 'g7, Herring, '97; clerks of court POINTS. ' '98 ........................ 347 7-15 Beattie, 'g6, Holcon1be, '98 ; judges of fencing '96 ........................ 2 74 1 _ 2 and club swinging~ Lieut. James Andrews, R. '99 ......................... 158 J. Landon, '84; marshals, Anthony, '96, Multer, '97.. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . .. 67 '97, W. C. Yates, '98, Kellog, '99· The committee was composed of Myers, 'g6, The best individual record was made by Myers, who earned 7o'Y3 points, and retained his title of college athlete. Kilpatrick was next best, with 63 }i poiuts, and Can1pbell third with sr~. Herring, '97, AUen, '98, and Hintnan, '99· '99 has finished reading Livy and will take up Tacitus next term,

THE OONCORDIENSIS . . There will be a meeting of students interested : The International Olympic games will be held in the Young Men's Christian Association work • at Athens next April. To defray the expenses in colleges and universities at Schenectady, • of this great contest a fund of $r93,ooo has been April 9th to rzth inclusive. The organizations • raised in Greece itself and a Greek m·erchant of ]n Harvard, Yale, Brown, An1:herst, Williatns, , Alexandria, naned Averoff, has contributed Columbia, Cornell, University of Toronto and ·. 6oo,ooo drachmae for the purpose of rebuilding aH other institutions of higher [earning through- . the Panathenak Stadion. This vast structure out New England, New York State and Canada ·. wiU be capable of seating 70,ooo spectatnrs. will be represented by their presidents. Besides • The sides slope up to a height of sixty to eighty the regular delegates the following well known :feet and the arena, in the·shape of a horse shoe, national secretaries will be present, who will · is 67o feet long and 109 feet wide. A part of preside at the convention and direct the general · the Stadion wiH he finished in tnarble in ti1ne business: F. S. Goodman, G. A. Beaver, E. for the ga1nes next spring and the rest in wood. L. Hunt, G. S. Eddy and W. H. Saln1an. It is the intention of Mr. Avero:ff to have the The delegates will be the guests ofthe college entire structure ultitnately constructed ofPentelic association and will be entertained at the Edison tnarble at his own expense. From its position hotel and by the families in the different churches between two of the lowest spurs of Mount of the city. A reception will probably be given Hymettus it cotnmands a magnificent view of to then1 on one of the afternoons, to which the · Athens and the surrounding country. The foot faculty and students will be invited. races and gymnastic contests wiU take place in All the public m:eetings of the conViention will · the Stadion and there also wiU be finished the be held in the chapel and the business meetings 26 mile race from Marathon in metnory of the in Professor Hoffman's room. The public runner who died in his effort to bring to Athens meetings will be of interest and give promise of the news of the Persian defeat. The bicycle much enthusiasm. races will be held on the Phaleric plain which The various fraternities of the college will i~s situated half way between the city and the entertain any of their members who may be seashore. The switnn1ing and rowing will be present as delegates, thus adding a pleasant contested on the Phaleron and the yacht races social feature to the occasion. The convention in the Saronic gulf. The Crown Prince and his will be an excellent tqing for the college and the brother are deeply interested in the enterprise, local association merits the hearty co-operation the king having promised to award in person of the entire student body. the silver olive wreaths. Grand torchlight pro~ BASE-BALL. -The students who intend playing base-ball this season can secure catchers' mitts, fielders gloves, ball shoes and other base- ball supplies from Hegeman, '99, who repre- sents Hulbert Bros. & Co., of New York, dealers in all kinds of Athletic and Gymnasium goods. Besides the samples of base-ball goods he has also samples of sweaters, running pants, running shoes, shirts, etc. The fellows should look at his samples ~nq orqer th<;ir athl~tic goods fron1 hirnr cessions and illuminations will be held and a series of representations of dratnatic n1aster- pieces beginning with a tragedy by Sophocles and ending with Wagner's \Lohengdn will be produced. As a closing selection, a special Olympic hymn, written by a modern Greek composer, will be sung by an im1nense chorus of over Iooo voices. The Freshmen have finished '' Trols Coutes Cholsls par Daudet.\ The Fresh1nen work in English for next term will consist of recitation~ and le<;tu.res with Dr, \' . . - .. '. Reeves.

'THE CONOORDIENSIS. A JOKE{?) cannot tell, but it was heroism at any rate. 'These same ·chiefs bore with them their insignia of office -white ~coats, big rubber hats and lighted lanterns. It was d:nteresting to notice the ·ca:re with which ''The Union CoHege students were quickly on · these last appendages were gl!larded; when the hand, last night, and saved quite a number of fire was at its height the chief's lantern -was extin- valuable articles fron1 Prof. Foster's residence. guished :;. horror was then depicted on every They got out all his beBt books and several pieces countenance, the firemen were a'ln1ost stunned at of furniture fro1:n the burning house before the such a dire calan1ity. What was to be done ?- firernan began playing, among the latter a pian<?- ·· the chiefs lantern was in darkness! Then it was forte, which it takes a good deal of ~ell appHed the first firen1an rushed to the rescue; the ehief strength and coolness to handle, in such an excit- was stupified by the accident, but the brave first ing scene. The students, being good Inusicians, · • firen1an 'Reized the lantern, lighted a ruatch, and were horrified at the idea of the firemen attempt- •· before the gaze of and the enthusiastic applause ing to play on it. \-Schenectady Daily Union. of the multitudes, while the ho\Rse was wrapped 'Ti:s well that Bill Nye is dead. I:f it were not . in flames and the country for ;rods around was so. he would be forced to ,give up all clain1s to the brilliantly i1lnn1ined by the confiagration, then ''prince of jesters,\ and the palm woul:d surely go . the daring thoughtful Inan Ughted the lantern to the JJail.y Union. Since Bill is gone, the Union and all was happy once more. wins in a walk, and we hail thee, moon, as the · greatest of all wits an1ong the heavenly spheres. Our sensibilities for jokes n1ay be handicapped, but before we could quite see the point we were con1pel1ed to resort to the X ray process of photo- graphy. Finally the joke was revealed, slowly to be sure, but we a:re now ready to announce to those readers who should happen to come across this, that it is truly a jol\e-a real, funny joke-such as we generally find in the Union, only on a little . different line, as it usually speaks of men \throw- ing fits,\ etc. We are also glad to note that the Union does give the students a little credit for something, even if it is down in one .corner of the paper, away froin the account of the fire. After all that could be rescued had been brought out by the students and tl1e house was ali burned, then the firemen caine and tried to destroy what had been saved by running over everything with hose-carts. They even tried to run over the same piano- forte. SCHENECTADY FIREMEN. The recent fire had its humorons incidents as well as its pathetic side. Usually there is nothing about a fire that arouses one to laughter; to see a home destroyPd, to see firen1en risking their own safety for the sake of another's property is any- thing but funny. But the fire at the college was different; there were firemen there holding a hose from which squirted water, to be sure, but the exciting scenes .of the risk of life and limb were looked for in vain. And yet on seeond thought there was a daring performance; two men, chiefs of the departments we should judg8 from the dis- tinguished look they bore, ascended a ladder lean- ing against the front of the house and stood thet·e · until the roof fell; the object of such action we • ,RmerieaQ ~olleqe J1elay ~~afl\pio.I]st}ip. Union has received an invitation from the University of Pennsylvania Athletic Association to take part in the great relay races to be held in Philadelphia on April 25. The races are open to all American universities and colleges, and the preparatory schools in or near Phila- delphia, and it promises to be the greatest event of the kind in the history of coHege athletics. In the team races, four colleges, as evenly matched as possible, will toe the rnark, and this arrangernent will be altnost certain to make close finishes in every event. To the college winning, a banner will be presented, and to the individual metnbers of tT1e winning team, gold watches ; while the m,embers of the team finish- ing second will receive silver cups. In case only three teatns start in any one class, the cups will be the first prizes, and no seconds will be given out. In addition to these four team races, there wHl be one race open to all., which will be to decide the Arnerican College Champion- ship. Harvard and Pennsylvania will enter this race ; perhaps Yale and Princeton, and probabTy several of the other colleges, so that it should be the greatest relay race ever 1-un. Union is preparing to ·send a team, and it should make a good showing. We have several men who are able to run the quarter-mile in · fast time, and the Union team should be able to easily outrun its three opponents, Dartmouth, Amherst and Williams.

8 THE OONCORDIENSIS. The metnbers of the M usica1 Association will ·. o'clock, and pro·mpt1y :at that hour the first : number on the program was sung by the Glee Club. long remembet~ their trip to Gloversville and .· The audience which greeted the clubs was speak of it in glowing terms as it was enjoyable . not large, but it proved to be most appreciative from start to finish. and responsive as every selection was enchored The clubs left Dorp on Friday afternoon at enthusiastically. The members of the association r .4 0 o'clock and after a two hours trip, made · may well be proud of this, their first appear- most enjoyable by mirth and music, they arrived ·· ance for the season, as every selection on the in Gloversville. On an excursion of this charac- program was rendered itil a finished manner that ter there is usuaHy one man who is so unlucky •. reflects great credit to the individual metnbers, as to figure pr;ornineritly in some incident that is • and especially to Mr. Ma.cMahon and Mr · a great source of all?usement to the others. As O'Neill, the respective leaders of the ·Glee and one of the feHows aptly expressed it, ''some- · body must ibe 'it.''' Our party proved to be no exception to the rule, as this role was well taken by a r<>sy cheeked '' tt·ummer\ of the guitar, whose ser~i es of mishaps began by the loss of his hat while oscillating between the \stnoker\ and the coach occupied by the clubs. On consulting the tnanager it was found that the \ properties\ ofthe association did not include a supply of derbys or beavers; but it did not become necessary for the unlucky one to protect his chestnut tresses from the Gloversville zyphers w~ith a knotted handkerchief, as the flannel cover from a piccolo banj;o was found to make a most ser- vicable artistic covering for his dome of thought. As the clubs passed along the streets many in- quiries were heard concerning '' the fellow with a tail on his cap,\ and the concensus of opinion seemed to be that he was the funny man. However, this condition of affairs did not last long, or the manager «ras moved by the blushes and entreaties of the wearer of the cap with a tail, to stop at the nearest hat emporium and purchase a '' £udora,\ \<Vhich will hereafter be carried. by the '' property man \ in case of a shnilar emergency. After the fellows had been assigned to their rooms at Hotel Windsor, and had tried the · acoustic properties of the opera house, they were treated to a sleighride by Mr. Albert Banker, '9o, in order that they n1ight see the sights, and by an occasional yell let the people know that the Union College Musical Associa- tion was in town. The concert was billed to cotnmence at 8: 15 Instrumental clubs. After the concert the Eccentric and Elks clubs were ''open house\ to the membe£s of the musical association ;: and a reception was tendered them by '' TlH~ Tuesday Afternoon Club,'' in Mill's Hall. mt is impossible to de- scribe the roya~ entertainment which the young ladies of this club gave ;t<> the ;members of the Musical Association. B_ut the appreciation of the fellows is best expressed in the words <Jf one of our gallant beaux, who said: \ It \Vas the finest dance given by the £nest ladies club that has ever entertained Union CoH-ege students.\ The ''Tuesday Afternoon C'lub,'' to whotn the members of the Musical: Association desire to extend their most sincere thanks fot· such an enjoyable evening, is cotl:lposed of the follow- ing young ladies : Miss Shotwell, Miss Berry, Miss Leonard, Miss Van Gorden, the Misses Taylor, Miss Whitney, M~iss Sweet, Miss Mason, Miss Treadway, Miss 'Ward, Miss Johnson, Miss Eisenbrey, and among those present fron1 out of town were J\fiss Argersinger and Miss Leavitt, of Johnstown, aad Miss Eaton from Little Falls. ~rhe following college n1en accompanied the clubs on the trip : Cam _pbell, '96, De Graff, '96, Hall, '99, Pruyn, '99,. ,and Tucker, '99· The following ladies were the patronesses of the concert : Mrs. John R. Berry, Mrs. Sher- Wood Haggart, Mrs. T. H. Bellinger, Mrs. W. C. Mills, Mrs. Williatn McDonald, Mrs. Alex- ander Orr, Mrs. Seth Burton, Mrs. J. C. Allen, Mrs. J. B. Stone, Mrs. F~ntnk Burton, Mrs. P.

.. THE CONOORDIENSiS. R. Fur beck, Mrs. John Burr, Mrs. Charles • Hill, Mrs. S. H. Shotwell, Mrs. John Edwards. The following progratn was render~ed : PART I. x. (a) UNION BESIDE THE MOHAWK VALE, C. E. Franklin, '83 ; (b) SIMPLE SIMON, '}. C. Macy : GLEE CLUB. !ll. (a) KING COTTON, (b) SWEET AND LOW, MANDOLIN CLUB. 3 . FRESHMAN QUARTETTE-FAIRLY 'CAUGHT, MESSRS. GREENE, HINMAN, MACMAHON, EAMES. Sousa · Barnby : 4· (a) POLISH .DANCE, Weini'awski • (b) TOBASCO, Chadwlck MANDOLIN CLUB. 5· HONEY MOON MARCH, . • Rosey · BANJO CLUB. 6. BA-A BA-A BLACK :SHEEP, . Wi'she · GLEE CLUB. PART n. x. CREOLE LOVE SONG, Smt\tk GLEE CLUB. 2. BASS SOLO-Selected. MR. F. C. MAcMAHON. 3· QUARTETTE-Selected. MESSRS. TAL·BoT., GREENE, HILD, MAcMAHON. 4· (a) CRADLE SONG, C. E. Smith, '99, has returned to ·college fully recovered from his late illness. Bonesteele, '99, has recovered from a long illness and is on the hill agai,n. VanVranken, 'g6, has been elected a tnember of the Holland Society of New York City. At a ·meeting of the Freshruan class held Fri- day, March 13, it was decided to adopt a new yell. President Raytnond during the latter part of last week visited the Nortbl'western Alumni at Chicago. The mandolin club was giv·en a reception by Mrs. Smitley of upper Union St., on Tuesday, l\tiarch IO. Peter Deyo, the weB known sprinter, formerly Williams '97, represented the Albany papers at the mid-winter tneet. President Raymond was among the speakers at the 39th anniversary of the Albany Business College held March I I . George E. Pollock, president of the college Y. M. C. A., delivered an address on March 15 to the young men of Amsterdam. (b) LITTLE ALABAMA COON, MANDOLIN CLUB. s. ROMEO AND JULIET. MACMAHON, HEINZ, BEATTIE. Ha1tser Starr 6. FLEMISH DANCE, Wilson, '99, who has been in the Bermudas for a short time on account of ill health is now at his home in Bufralo, and will return to college Bo1theur BANJo CLuB. next term. 7· (a) TERRACE SONG, • FitzHugh Ludlow, 'so At a tneeting of the Ade1phic Society held (b) DRINKING SONG, (c) soNG TO OLD UNION, Ft\tz Hugh Ludlow, , 50 last Friday afternoon the following officers were GLEE CLuB. 1 elected : President~ J. G. Hilton, '96 ; vice- Coeal a qd p~r5oQal. Barnes, '95, attended the tnid-winter meet. Prof. Truax lectured at Salem, N. Y. last Friday. Cox, '95, visited his brother, Cox, '98, a few days last week. Dillenbeck, '99, who has been ill for several days, is out again. Guernsey, '99, has returned, fully recovered frotn his recent illness. Haviland, '98, spent Sunday, March 15, at his hotne in Glens Falls. W. L. Sawyer, '95, of Sandy Hill was in the city a few days last week. president, A .. M. Blodgett, '97; secretary, P. Nelson, '98; treasurer, W. E. Merriman, '98. The subject for debate •was: Resolved; that England's policy in China and India during the last century has been in accordance with the highest interest of civilization. An inter-scholastic athletic m·eet under the direction of the Union Classical Institute will be held in the Centre Street Opera House, Friday evening, March 27. The Albany High School and the Troy High School and Academy have accepted the invitation to participate, and each will send a strong teatn to defend the hono1· of its school. Last year at a similar meet held· in Albany, the U. C. I. won the tnost points ; John Cregan, '99, who is now in college winning the honors.

10 THE OONCOBDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED ON ALTERN !\.TE WEDNES:DAYS DURING THK COLLEGE YEAR BY THE 8TUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF .EDITURS: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. ,rnores. WALTER L HUGGINS, '96, - Business Manager. ela~s wili stand by or sneak out of sight while the Sophomore class pelts with snow-balls and rolls in the snow the few that ltl'e brave enough to stand up and refute the onslaught, ·and even its presi- ·dent refuse to lead a yen, i~t looks as if the pluck or the true spirit of that class is gone. Wllen, oh when, shall this eo1ne to an end ? () tmn:p.ora, 0 WILL1AM H. HALL, '96, Literary Editor. Enw ARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business 1\.Ianager. · ~THE STUDENTS have been notified by the presi- F. P ACEARD , PALMER, '97, l · d.ent of the athletic board that unless their sub- H. C. TODD, 97,,. I H .. H. ERow. N., . 97, l scriptions are paid in by April 10 the present r Assistant Editors. · 1 n th A. H. BrR?H, 9?, I schedule will be cut down and possrby a: ··. e R. D. FuL~ER, 97, J games cancelled. There is no money at present D. WooD, 97, in tbe treasury, and the board refuses to allow CARL HAMMER, '98, I W D . R '98 l. :a.ny game until the money is on hand to Ineet the ILLIA:M . EED, , r P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial Staff. re:xpenses. 'The students still owe on thPi[' sub- F. Boss, '98, J :scriptions over $400, and it is a shame that they L Me CLINTOCK, '97, t Medical College. will not pay up what they owe so that the season R. VAN BEUSEK20M, ) E S B Law School. may be a success. '' A. word to the wise is suffi~ .... ltOWN, ,cient,\ and if you want a base- ball team pay up at TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. ' once. 15 CENTS. THE '97 GARNET n1akes its appearance this week Address all communications to THE CONCORD!- · 'The general make-up of the whole book is fully as . g<>od, if not better, than any previous issue, and · reflects great credit on the board of editors as well : as the publisher. The printing and binding has . been done by Mr. Chas. :Burrows, of .this city, · who also issues THE CONCORDIENSIS, and is an • extremely creditable pieee of work in every re- , spect. Considering that .the whole GARNET has . been printed and bound in about one-half the ENSIS, :Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscdbers are requested to tnake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. ,. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CH,\S, BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WE W[SH you all a merry spring vacation, and may everybody con1e back to college feeling in- vig·orated after the few days of reHt. THE COLLEGE catalogue for 1896-97 is out. At · this late date we are unable to publish a review of it, but it may be expected in our next issue. DR. AND MRs. FosTER have the sympathy of the whole ,college in the recent loss of so much of· their property through the burning of their house. It is no doubt a sad blow to them in their ad- vanced years. The college also loses a sacred land-mark. The building had lived nearly as long as the coHege itself, and it seems too bad that it should ha.ve been so destroyed. WHERE ,is class spirit? Is it all dead ? Judging from the little episode that occurred after college n1eeting ~ast Friday morning, we should say that it is. When nearly the whole of the Freshman usual time, our readers can appeciate what the · above expression of our opinion means to the pl'inter, who has had to ''rush\ the work in order to finish it before vacation. IT IS very gratifying to the student body to know that the concert given last week by the musical clubs was a great success. The men on the clubs have worked hard and con- seientiously in order to make the organization a stl'ong one, and Manager Clowe has done aU in his :power to put out clubs that would be an honor to th.e name of Union. The eflorts of all have been well rewarded, and it is hoped that when the concert is given in this city the first of next term the boys will be greeted by a large audience. A. good musical organization is a good ad vertise1nent fer a college, for it appeals to a class of people that rnany other things would never reach. Union's clubs have made a good start. May their other efforts be crowned with the sarne success.

THE OON'OO~btENSlS. WE wouLD like to irn pr,ess upon the minds of • THE PERCENTAGE systetn that is now being the Freshn1en who are trying for positions on the · used by the coUege to determine the class supre· editorial board of THE CoNCORDIENSIS the im- . macy in athlet.ics may be all right, but its results portance of doi:ng 1nore WQrk than they have in · are sometimes surprising. This was ·especially so the past. A few have been very active, but they • in the nlid-winter m~eet on March 13. At that are very few. ·'If a thing is not worth working for it tin1e the Senior class won, out the twelv·e events, is not worth having,'·' is a good rule to follow, and it seven firsts and four seconds, while the Sopho- has no exceptiop. in the present .. case. If you • mores won only three firsts and five seconds, yet expect to get an appoi:nbnent you have got to it seem.s that the latter class, according to the work for it, and the more work you do the better reckoning, was given the meet by a large Inajority are your chances for editor-in-chief in your Senior 'Of points. Where tbe justice in such a result year. The con1petition sbould be a close one; it come in we fail to see. While we admit that the shol!lld not be a walk -over for a few rnen. Get to · system ca.Hs out rnany men who are not very good work, do some hustling, and the men who deserve in any event, it seents too bad that men who are the appointn1ents will get the1n. superior to these must be pushed to the wall, their class with them, just because more have entered from the first class. If a class wins a THE PRESENT week filil ds the whole college in : number of events, she ought to be credited with them, no rnatter whether one 1nan or a dozen the midst of exarninations. Friday the tern1 ends . and the spring vacation begins, and to all that helps in the winning. The system, of course, has vacation will be a welconle one. The winter terin . a good side to it, for it calls out men who other- is always a hard one; for the opportunities for . w:i:se would not take part; but it seems that some doing work are better, and ruore work is ,given in , comproinise ought to be made between the two extremes. consequence, but the present term seen1s to have been even harder than all previous ones. More wo1·k has been expected, and the manner in which it was done has been very g1·atifying, especially to the faculty. The students have responded nobly to the call, and in the class room the standard was never higher at Union than it is to-day. That it is a sign of the ad vancmnent of the college cannot be doubted, and that advance is bound to con- tinue as long as the present circumstances exist. WHo SAID that Union could not put an athletic team in the field under the existing faculty re- strictions? If any one should happen to run up against him just point out to him the results of the mid-winter meet on March 13, as found in other eolumns of THE OoNCORDIENSIS. Did not records go to smash, and were not better results made than in any other indoor meet ever held at Union? We think, if you iook the matter up, you will find that our statentent is true. If those facts show that Union cannot put a team in the field, we are very much rnistaktn. The prospects for a good tean1 weTe never .better, and the men are already in excellent condition to begin their out- door training. As soon as the weather permits Captain Myers and his men will be on the track, and results unlooked for will be in order. One thing we are sure of, eve1·y man is going to do his best, and before June we can show to the college · world that athletics are not quite dead at Old Union. [Air-Terrace Song]. Oh, shall we go to Albany, Or shaH we stay at home? Shall we work for others' good, Or shall we seek our own ? A hundred years has Union stood Down in her Mohawk home, A hundred more her sons shall see Upon her seats of stone. CHORUS. Thou grand old seat of stone! Thou jolly seat of stone! In Albany there ne'er can be A grand old seat of stone! Could John Boyd Thatcher take us there We'd surely suffer harm. vVe'll never leave our pasture green For any poor- house farm. The idol in our classic grove No other shrine shall own; Old Union's songs we'll sing nowhere Save on our seats of stone. -CHORUS. M. H. STRONG, '96 I

12 THE CONOORDIENS!S. O·o-.-o· ALBANY ~-~~ 6 !CJ)\L COLL6G8~ ' ceived fifteen dollars in gold for passing the best . finals in the Junior class, honorable mention . being given to i-\.. Decker, \V. F. French and ; W. S. Condon. President Raytnond then con- •• ferred the degree of Ph. G. upon the following The following Juniors have been appointed . graduates: Joseph Arcatnbault, Cohoes; Mil- by Grand Marshall Clark to act as ushers at the ·• ford H. Burt, Bacon Hill; Frank H. Bradley, '96 con1mence1nent: Bates, McClintock, Par- Albany; Arthur W. Davenport, West Troy; sons, Sheehan, Slocun 1 and Wilber. Those Joseph W. Dessert, Glens Falls; David S. fron1 '98 are Vander Veer and McMillan. Dorn, Esperance ; Thotnas J. Galli gar, Cam- The Dr. Albert Vander Veer Medical society . bridge; Frank S. Houck, Central Bridge; tnet last week. President J. M. W. Scott called J an 1 es W · Houston, Malone; Loren D. I_.~arkin, the n1eetin~ to order. A paper on \Insanity Plattsburgh ; John A. Nitzslnnann, Schenec- and Its 1'reatment\ was read by E. J. Collier, tady; Chas. G. Straub, Middleburg; J. Harold A. B., '96. H. L. K. Shaw, ' 9 6, and J. W. Wardle, Hudson; Harry A. Wickhatn, Albany; Travell, A. B., '97, took up the discussion. A Clarence C. Ward, Gloversville. The following paper on \Acute Mania\ was read by Frank officers of the alumni association were then McLean, Ph. G., and was discussed by C. J. elected : President, C. F. Huntington ; first Slocum, '97, H. L. K. Shaw, ' 9 6, and E. J. vice-president, \V. L. Paltnatier; second vice- Collier, '96. A vote of thanks was given Messrs. president, L. D. Larkin; treasurer, C. C. Pas- Collier and McLean for their able papers. The senger; secretary, T. ]. Bradley; historian, F. executive con11nittee presented the following W. Shafter; executive conunittee, Edward Loeb, natnes for n1etnbership, and they were elected: Frank Ricl1ardson, C. H. Reese, C. H. Sager, E. A. Vander Veer, Ph. B., F. Jansen, Ph. B., W. H. Brush. . Cull and Leak, '98. The following are the After these services at the hall, the alutnni newly elected officers: I-I. 0. Brust, 'g7, presi- association held at the Delavan the fifteenth an- dent; 'vV. J. Sheehan, '97, vice-president; c. nual banquet, which was attended by about fifty G. Cole, '97, secretary; E. A. Vander Veer, 1nen1bers. Edward Loeb, '89, acted as toast- '98, treasurer. Executive con1 mittee, C. J. Slo- n1aster and called for the following toasts : curn, '97, ]. W. 1,ravell, '97, vV. R. Miller, ' 9 8. \Greater Union,\ Prof. W. G. Tucker, M.D.; The retiring president, Mr. J. M. W. Scott, banjo selection, H. J. McClure; \The Clergy,\ read the work of the society for the past year Rev· W. F. Whitaker ; '' Our Annual Re- ... ' a1'1d retired with a very able speech. A vote of union,\ J. H. Barron, '95; recitation, H. J. thanks was given to 1v1r. Scott for the good McClure; ''New Retnedies,\ E. F. Hunting- work done by hin1 during his tenn as president. don, '87; \Class of '96, '' J. H. Wardle, '96; The fifteenth annual comtnence1nent exercises of the Albany College of Pharn1acy were held . March I 7. The valedictory oration was de- livered by J atnes W. Houston, and the prizes . award~d were as follows : Christian G. Hacker · of Albany received twenty dollars in gold for passing the best final examinations in the Senior · class, with honorable mention to L. D. Larkin and A. W. Davenport; Morey J. Malcolm re- \Our Ph. G. M. D's,\ Archibald Gilbert, '89; recitation, H. J McClure; \Chen1istry in Re- lation to Phannacy,\ Professor G. Michaelis; \ Bachelor l\1aids,\ H. B. Mason, '94; \ Phar- . n1aceutical Legislation,\ Professor A. B. Hue- sted; banjo selection, H. J. McClure; \ Part- ing,\ J. T. Hogan, '93· The metnbers of the Society to Promote Use- ful read~ng had the pleasure of hearing a paper '' Tho Rise of the Universities,\ by Prof. Hale, . of Union college, last Saturday. fo of fh u C( st o1 . tn k b b e p s b I= t: n y t t c

' THE C·ONCOR:blENStS. control of the disbursements of all moneys of ' the club and shall have .general charge of its ·. business. At ·~ recent ~ee.ting of the Press Club the :: SEc. 3 . Special committees may at any time foHowtng constttubo~ was adopted an? ~he ' be authorized by the club or executive com- officers are now worktng bard to further 1ts 1n- ·• \tt .m1 ee. fluence :at Union. · ARTICLE VI. MEETINGS. ARTICLE I. NAME. The name of the organization shall be the : Union College Press Club. . ARTICLE II. OBJECT'\ It shaH be the object of the club to foster a literary and journalistic spirit among the un- · dergraduates of Union College, to insure regular correspondents for newspapers of acknowledged . standing which circulate among the constituency of the college, and to advance in other ways the interests of the college and its students. ARTICLE III. MEMBERSHIP. SEc. I. At the beginning of each college year tbe n1em bers of the club shall consist of the editors of THE CoNCORDIENs.rsand all oth'ers who have been duly elected. SEc. 2. Any student of Union who is a regular correspondent of a newspaper of ac- · knowiledged standing, shall be eligible to mem- . bership. SEc. 3· All candidates for mernbership shall · be elected by a rnajority vote of the club. SEc. 4· When any member who has been · elected as the regular correspondent of a news- . paper of acknowledged standing ceases to act as such correspondent, he thereby forfeits his tnem- bership in the club. ARTICLE IV. OFFICERS. SEc. I. The officers of this club shall be a president, a vice-president and a secretary and treasurer, who shall be chosen at the last regular meeting of each year. They shall serve for one year. SEc. 2. The president, vice-president, secre- tary and treasurer shall perform such duties as usually pertain to these offices. ARTICLE V. Col\IMITTEES. SEc. r. The president, vice-president, secre- · tary and treasurer shall constitute an executive committee. SEc. 2. The executive committee shall have SEc. 1. Regular meetings of the club shall be heild on the first Friday of each month of the college year. SEc. 2. Specia:l tneetings may at any titne be called by the pt1esident or by three members of the· club. . ARTICLE VII. AssESSMENTS. Upon recommendation of the executive com- tnittee, a tax may be assessed upon the mem- bers of the club by a majority vote of the members present at any business meeting, due notice of which has been given. ARTICLE VIII. AMENDMENTS. Atnendments to this constitution shall require for their adoption notice at a previous business meeting and a two-thirds vote of the members of the club. 81}all tt}e ~olleqe {T\ov~? New York, March 2, 1896. DEAR CoNcoRDIENsis : Suppose somebody down in Albany does criticise your remarks. .. Stand right up and make 'em all the same. Who in all this world has an interest in Union College if not the students who are a part of it ? You have your say and say it war·m. Besides you will a 11 be Alumni soon, anyway. Union College belongs right where it is, 1·ight where it has been for a century. What would they do with Jackson's Garden, and the campus, and the grove, and the brook, and the woods the brook flows through ? What will they substitute for the beautiful view of the valley and the hills ? Romance and poetry and all the tender associations of our boyhood-all these things get crowded out of our lives in the struggle for bread and butter. Old Union has lived for a century in environments that can't be replaced elsewhere. The memory of the dead, the heart-throbs of the living, the voices of the past, the hopes of the future, all demand that where her walls have grown gray the Alma Mater remain forever. A. w. GLEASON.

14 - ADVERTI8EMENTS. ------ PATRONIZE OUR ADVER'riSERS. p. ~m tl3 erne fJ t3. Thursday, March 26-Sardou's great con1:edy ; '' Madan1 :Sans Gene,\ with the entire original • cast, scene1·y and p~roperties as given at the Broad- · way Theatre, New York City, nearly all of last • season. Cast includes Kathryn Kidder and · Augus,tus Co<i>~k. Easter wee:k-' · The De vii's Auction;'' Andrew · Mack in \1\IHes Aroon ;\ Rice's Original \1492 •. with Richard Harlow, Bessie 13onehill and Kil- yani's Living Pictures. \Rob Roy\ will follow. ~~TEN OGRAPHY. ~ ~ _:;; ___.~. ~ 1 ~ D!CTA 110N TAKEN AND .· ! NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORATIONS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COPIED. B. E. HUGGINS, 22M. S. S.C. ALT .. W\ ORK CONFIDENTIAL. CHAUNCEY Ji'J:tENCH. WILLIAM R. FOX. (Su cceSSOl'S to V OSSJ:..ER & Nellis). 33 N. S. S.C. The Union College Book Exchange still continues to recejve orders for all kinds of Text Books, Fountain Pens, Engineer's & Draughtsmen's 3uppl ies. Tablets, Pencils, Inks and Second Hand Books always kept in stock. I I • I * . . . . . fHE LATEST THING IN\ UNION\ STATIONERY JUST RECEIVED. THE:RE, ARE TWO KINDS OF BICYCLES Columbias · and others. There are no untried devices in 1896 Col- umbias. Ev;ery detail has been perfected by at least a · year,. s use. Beautiful Art Catalogue for l896,of Columbia and Hart- ford Bicycles. is free if you call upon any Columbia agent; by mail from us for two 2-cent stamps • • POPE MANUFACTURING ·CO. Factories and General Offices, Hartford, Conn. Branch Stores and Agencies in almost every city and tow.1. If Columbias are not proJ>erly represented in your vicinity let us. know. Maech 19, 1896. Our stock for Spring and Summ.er of 18 96 is now ready in all departments. Beside the usual standard goods it -will contain many seasonable novelties. Brooks Broth,ers, Broadway, cor. 22d St., New York City. ompare our prices with those of the city book stores and give us a trial. FAIR TREATMENT TO ALL. CLOTHING AND FURNISH ... } ING GOODS READY MADE .AND MADE TO MEASURE, ::: ::::

'THE CON·OORDIENSIS. 15 GIVE YOUR PATRONAG-E 'TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNION .. A new and unique publication, '.l'.'fte Waste Basket, has just n1:ade its appearance frorn the press of the Collector PubHshing C(}tnpany, of Detroit. This 1nagazine i:s to be publish ed in the interest of new writers and for the purpose of furnisil.tting a rnedilitnl for the publicatioJil of their . productions. The first nun1ber is exeeHent and interesting, but the publishers assur-e os that this • is only a beginning and that 1ve :ruay- look for : n1uch greater things with each succeeding nutll- '• ber. Tihe subscription pr·ice is $2. 00 pe:r year, and · a .sa1nple copy may be obtained :for 25 cents, by :e:t:c::a:.~ON:C St:caig:b.. t · 01.l. t No Ciga:rettes·. · addressing the publishers, The Colleetor· Pablish- 1 ·. ing Con~pany, Detroit, :Mich. 'l'h13 Pen1'ty Mqgazine is the nau1e (,)f another Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the . price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will-find THIS :BRAND superior to aH others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. Thi~ is the Ohl and Original :Brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was brougl•tt out by us in the year 1875· BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observe that the finn name as below, is on every package. ALLE .. N & GINTER, The American Tobacco C·on1p.any, Successor, Manufacturer, ELEC'TRIC ~{: CITY ~Y: TROUSERS ~~ CO., ~ -~ E. F. DALY. ®f<. FiNE Cu.ST-on' TA1to_R_tN___...Q. duits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4 Up. Over.coats, $16 U'p. Drop a postal card and ou.r representative (0. E. IIENNESY) will call. 149 80. CENTRE .81'REET. Next door to Barhydt House. pu bli ation which begins its existence ·with the Ap1·il nutnher. The 1nagazine contain~ only short stories. and atnong the contri butoTs to the first nuurber are J alia Magruder and l\Iat·:ia Louise Pool. All its stories are full of life an.d. literary Inerit, and are weH ·worth reading· \Ve predict for The Penny Magazine a long li.fe-2.t least it is deserving of it. It is published by 'T<;he Penny Magazine Co., of Philadelphia, and t11 e su bcrip- tion price is 25 cents a year. Another tnagazine that has been before the public only a short tiine is 1'he New Bohendan. It is a very bright, attractive and intm~esting pub- lication, and its .stories and short poen1 s ~~·e always of the very best n1aterial. It is prog~r.essive and wholesotne, and well deserves the great hit that it is everywhere making. . COAL.~ ~:COAL. BUY YOV;R GOAL OF W. P. CARNS·EY, * COAL.~ Office, 433 State Stree• Yard, 229 Park Place. .,- COAL. ~1A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ FURNITURE AID BEDDING ~ ALL~DS ~ FOR® STUDENTS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

16 THE OONCORDIENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY.OUR ADVERTISERS. B. L. Newkirk, '98, of Colgate, visited friends ·· on the hill iast Wednesday. Our trusted '' copper,\ Ja~m·es Corl, :came very near rneeting with a serious accident one day last week. One of the .avalanches, which we a few n urn bers back described in our ,editorial columns, descended irom the lRbora- tory roof onto the head of Jitn, -vvhile he was cleaning the snow fron1 the w.alk in front of the building. 'The blow fro1n the ice and snow knocked hi:m over, bruising him quite badly, and he had to be helped into the laboratory, where it took l1im quite a while to r.ecover. He was unable to do more work that day. ~U; '-71 ~ EMPI·RE STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 .JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 :per term, strictly ) ) J in ad-vance. (?-' :a:o:esT~.A..~~'S . - - - - ·- .-::.:·::::: .. ·.:.:·: .. ·.:.::.\.·:::::::.\\;.:::.\.·::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'7:::::::::::::::: .... ::::.\:::::::::::.::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::;: .. :::::.:::: .. -.::;:.:.::::.::::.~::::.::::.-.::::.-.:::: .. ::::: .. :::: .. -:::: .. ·.~::.-.::::.:::::.::::;.::::.-.::::.::::: .. ::::.::::: .. ::::.::::::.:::::.::::::.::: - ~ - - - - - 12ft WALL ST., Opp. Post Office. The largest and finest line of cigars a,nc:l smo~ers supplies in the city:. WILLIAM DOBERMANN.J --·-CATERER FOR -- ~ ED~DINGS, .. • • • ~=--SUPPERS, ETC. V .A.RIETY OF ICE CREAM .AND IClES CONSTANTLY ON HAND. . •••• FRIED OYSTERS $2 PER HUNDRED. • • • • DOBE~MANN'S ~ESJilAU~ANJil 104!!!! 1()() WALL STREET .• Oyste'l' Stew in Pail to take Home 1 25 cent8. OysteT or Clam FTy in a J3o(IJ 1 25 ~e11-t•,·

----- ADVERTISEMENTS. -- 11 READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS. IT WIL!L PAY YOU. FOR .FOR SALE. ~·AND DWE:LLINGS. ~ ~· FOR R_ENT ·~ ~ Dwelling Houses and Flats Excellently Located, Adapted to Small Fa11~ilies. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union College. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONG ISLAND CITY,

ts ---.- ADVERTISEMENTS. -- LET OUR ADVERTISERS KNOW YOU ARE COLLEGE MEN WHEN DEALING WITH THEM. . } 0:: 0 ~- ~ ~ ~ 0 z ~ Q < w ~ .J:ij J: -~ ~· ~ tr.1 t-1 ~ -~ Q tr:J UJ ..., C/) ~ 0 () ~ I. LEVINE, Van Curler Opera House Block. LOWEST PRICES. ~lf }lYLE & SON, ~ ~ * E.t!$iRAVERS, * ---..ALBANY, N. Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dressing . Opp. Edison Hotel (up stair.s.) USE A. SCHMIDT'S NEW Dl~COVERY FOB tHE HAl&. A certain cqre for Dandruff, Scalp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. PHOTOGI{APHIC SUPPI1IES .... Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes of . . . . . ~am~ras, Dry plat~s aiJd ~ard ~toe~ At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. QEO. H. QQARI)JNEER, Successor to J. N. McDonald. F·OUNTAIN _PENS,~- -~- =====-- UNION COL'L·ECE ~- 80-UVEN IR 8-POO.NS., ~· ··'·'· .· FLAG PI.N8, ETC. 233S'T'A'T'E S'T'., SGHENE:Q'TA.DY. ·N. Y . • . . . . Wholesale and Retail Dealers in eeJI.L -:-JlNB -:- Weon Coal, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M .. C. A.=========---. ~tc ~E~!FliU~lfN!F, jf~ ---=====---==CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. Q-Meal Tickets will be sold to Students only . . . .•. • ..... for $3.00 for 21 Tickets. WILSON DAVIS, .... MJ£R.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544 Broadway, Albany, N. Y 237 STATE S .... ScHENECTADY N. Y~ - E ag~ mE be ph hu for In tlH po tr~ de co ed bu we to to Bt pr pl: . JU~ ce be pr its nc of . Slt su de m ar

