The Concordiensis. VoL. XX. UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER 2, 1896. No. 10. A conference of college representatives was held at Bagg's hotel, Utica, Saturday afternoon, Nov. 28. Union, Colgate, Hatnilton, Syracuse, Rochester and Hobart were represented,\ each by a member of the faculty, an alurnnus and an under-graduate. Prof. Jatnes L. Patterson, C. E. Franklin, '83, of Albany, and Paul Canfield, '97, represented Union. The conference was the result of a meeting of faculty representatives, vv hich was held in Octo- ber. At that tneeting it was decided that no student could con1pete in inter-collegiate con- tests unless he recites at least fifteen hours per week. Syracuse objected to this rule so a meet- ing of the faculty representatives was held p~·e­ vious to the conference on Saturday at which the hours were reduced to twelve and in adrli- tion it was decided that no one can cotnpete who has more than two conditions. Professor Dui·fee of HobaTt, called the con- ference to order, and reported the action of the Faculty representatives. C. E. Franklin of Union, was 1nade chainnan, and J. M. Glass, '97, of Han1ilton, secretary. Williatn Briggs of Rochester presented the following resolution : Resolved. That the work of this convention shall be to declare who shall be eligible tnem- bers of athletic teams representing the colleges named, in all intercollegiate contests ; to pro- vide in every possible way for fair, sportstnan- like contests, . and fotmulate plans for the en- forcement of its rules .. Resolved, That existing state associations be requested, and the delegates present pledge thetnselves to see that ptesent rules governing such associatiot1$ be changed, as far as is neces- sary to confonn to the agreernent entered into by this convention. Resolved, That all the colleges and univer ... sites of the state be requested to subscribe to the rules laid down by this convention, and to join the association here to be formed, A lengthy discussion ensued in the midst of which Syracuse requested that the hours of recitations be furthe1· reduced to ten. The re- quest was lost by a vote of nine to eight, and the original resolution was then adopted. rrhe tnatter of conditions then came up and it was decided after a prolonged debate that no student shall be eligible to compete in athletics if he has tTlore than two conditions, unless the faculty of his institution certifies that he is a proper person to compete ; in which case the question would be decided by the advisory board of the league. Dr. Patterson made an excellent argument upon the relation of athletics and scholarship in general. He said that faculty representatives had adopted the resolution after careful consid- eration and that it was lenient rather than severe in cotnparison with sitnilar rules of other insti- tutions. At Atnherst, Lehigh and Pennsylvania the lhnit is one condition. ''What we need in our colleges today,\ Dr. Patterson said, \is n1en who make athletics su bserve the interests of edu- cation ; not tnen who make college residence an opportunity for indulging in athletics. The Mott Haven rule defining professional- istn was then adopted with the understanding that it should not apply to the past actions of students. This will debar students from play- ing on sutnrner base ball teams for compensa- tion. The conference decided that a league should be forrned to ~e governed by an advisory board, consisting of a 1nember of the faculty, an alum-- nus, and an under-.graduate fron1 each institu- tion. The action of the conference will be reported to the colleges by their representatives and each institution will then appoint a delegate to be one of a cotnmittee of six which will meet within a month to draw up a constitution and by-laws erpbodying the points decided by the conference.

2 THE OONCORDIENSIS. 9. Waltz, . 10. Two-step, - Obi~J)ah Orie11tal Echoes Wizard of the Nile · De New :Bully On the evening of Friday, Nov. 2oth, the Junior class held their annual prom:enade. · 11. Waltz, 12. Two-step, INTERMISSION. There is but little to be said concernitig this ·' 13. Wa1tz, dance which has not already been written con- ·. 14:. Two-step, • · 15. Waltz, American Minister Creole Lov:e Song Naila Finicoli Don't be Cross - Arrab, go on cern1ng some one of these large dances, which 16. Two-step, for years have been held under the auspices of · 1'7. Waltz, the various classes of this college. 18 • Two-step, 19. Waltz, -Ben Bolt The Junior prom:enade of the class of '98 was · 20. Two-step, a decided success. We regret to say that it was : 21 • Waltz, In. Gay New York Loves• Dream Black .America .Birds • Voices Medley .Au·>R~voir 22. Two-step, not so financially. It was mqre thoroughly a 23. Waltz, college affair than has been any dance given 24 • Two-step, h r 25. Waltz, ere 10r several Jears. While we are glad to ... Ele\tiolJ of Football ~aptaiQ. record that a greater number of students patron- ized this dance than those held heretofore, yet at the same th11e we feel that the townspeople might have been rnore generous in their patron- Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 24, Thomas A. age. We are well aware that the people of · Crichton, '98, was unanhnously elected captain Schenectady, paTticularly the young men con- of the Union College foot ball team for the sea- nected with the General Electric Co. are not to son of ·97 · No better choice could have been be blatned for their lack of interest in college made. His efficient work at end last year fol- dances. The custom of making out cards before lowed by his excellent work at half-back this the dance, has become a most dangerous pre- · fall demonstrated his ability as a foot• ball player cedent. The large majority of young ladies and made him the logical captain of next .sea- who attend these dances acquiesce to the wishes son's team. of the students, and sign away their dances not- withstanding the fact that there may be many n1en present who depend upon them in part for their pleasure during the evening. The result of this custorn was strikingly shown at this dance. The outside patronage, which is neces- sary to the success of such a large dance, was wanting. As a social event nothing was wanting to make it a grand success. Gioscia and his orches- tra played beautifully. The floor which hereto- fore has been very bad, was 1nucli. improved. It is far from perfect, however, and unless sotne- thing is done to retnedy the defect at the edge of the stage, future dances in the Van Curler are sure to be financial failures. ·The following is the programme rendered: 1. Waltz, 2. Two-step, 3. Waltz, 4. Two-step, 5. Waltz, 6. Two ... step, 7. Waltz, 8. Two-step, Symposia Belle of .the Season Ange D'Amour u Shandon Bells\ - Dolores El Capitan Espanita · Narcissus rnemorial of t~e \Ja.ss of , 46. The class of '46 has published a Metnorial record of their class. It is illustrated with views of the college grounds, and a portrait of Presi- dent Eliphalet Nott. A brief biographical sketch is given of fifty members of the· class out of the 126 who were enrolled. The names of the faculty in r846 are given, also the proceedings of the class re .. union in 1886 and the records of the semi-centennial re-union · held in this city on June 23, 1896. Tw,enty- nirte tnembers of the class are still living. Ames, '97, preached in St. Paul's Zion African Methodist Episcopal church Sun·day . N evening, 1 ov. 22. Dr. Raymond delivered the opening leeture in the Y. M. C. A. course, at the First Presby- terian church, Tuesday evening, Nov. 24. ne de th~ thl hil th~ thl dr ac an ch sil C< re: di fn cl~ so Wj cl: Oil ex sy se he N su h~ a c of b{ il1

THE' {JONCORDIENSIS. 3 Frede:ric:k B. Boss· died· at ·his hotne in Schea nect~'dy, early Tuesd·ay morning, Nov. 17. The deceased was twenty-one years. of age and for the past year had been gradually sinking with the dread disease consumption, which caused his death. He graduated with high hon·ors at the Union Clasical Institute in 1893 and entered the class of '97 at Union, but was fo~rced to with- draw frotn ~tudy during his Sophotnore year on account of his health. He was a fi.ne musician and had been organist at the Congregational church in this chy for son1e· years. The deceased was a member of the Delta Up-. silon fraternity and an associate editor of THE CoNCORDIENsrs. The class of '97 have adopted the following resolutions : WHEREAs, Our Heavenly Father in His divine providence has dee1ne:d it hest to remove frotn our n1idst our beloved friend and fellow- classtnate, Frederick B. Boss, and, WHEREAs, We deeply mourn the loss of one so respected, we resign ourselves· to the will and wisdotn of the All!nighty, and, WHEREAS, We, the fellow members ofthe class of '97, shall also hold dear the memo1·y of one so kind and cheerful, be it therefore Resolved, That we, in this time of sorrow, extend to his bereaved family our sincere sympathy, and be it further Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family of the deceased. FRANK p. CADY' RICHARD PEARSE, JoHN A. GILES. John Trutnbull Backus Gilmour died at his home in Schenectady on Wednesday afternoon, Nov. r8, of heart failure, superinduced by con- sumption. He was born in this city in r864 and has lived here all his· life. He was distinctively a Union man, having graduated frotn the Union Classical Institute in 1883 and entered the class of '87 at Union. He was forced to leave college before the expiration of his course on account of illess, but, however, graduated from the Albany College of Phannacy in the spring of '9r. He was manager of Horstman's pharmacy in the Edison Hotel hlock until April I last, when he opened: a store of his own at 267 State 'Street. Mr._ Gilm~our was a member of the Psi Upsi- lon fraternity. The Phi Gamma Delta fraternity gave a dance at their house Wednesday evening, Nov. 25. During the early part of the evening a very en- , joyable literary and musical entertainment was . g1ven. Atnong those present were Miss Etnily Bal- lard, Miss Florenc,e Ballard, Miss Winne Bal- lard, Miss Elizabeth Chambers, Miss Sarah Deane, Miss Fannie Durler, Miss Hedwig Dur- ler, Miss Anna Hubbs, Miss Gertrude Neahr, Miss Ruth Reynolds, Miss Winona Turnbull and Mrs. Landreth, of Schenectady; Miss Flor- ence Cochrane,, Miss Maud Griffin, lVIiss Effie H. Keays, Miss Sophie S. Ross, J\!Iiss Catherine Waterhouse, Miss Effie F. Watson and Mrs. M. E .. Ea.rnes of Albany ; ·Miss Charlotte· S. Steele of Washington, D. C,. The Senior class of the Albany College of Pharmacy has elected the following officers: President, Arthur Decker, Monticello, N. Y.; vice president, GeorgeS. Wheeler, M.t. Upton, N. Y; secretary, R. B. Channell, Malone, N. l.T\. ; treasurer, Perley D. Kinney, Poultney, Vt. ; valedictorian, Clarenct=-W.Briggs, Malone, N.Y. Dec. 2, Evangeline. Dec. 3, The Last Stroke. · Dec. 5, Lili putians, ( tnatinee and evening). Dec. 7, Wang. Dec. 9, Sunshine of Paradise Alley. Freshm.en class pins are expected soon.

4 TRE CONCORDlENSlS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURiNG THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BO.AB~D OF EJJITORS: F. PACKARD PALMER, '97, Editor-in-Chief. EDWARD E. DRAPER,. '97, - Business Manager. HIR.AM 0. TODD, '97, Literary Editor. CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98,- Asst. Bus. Manager. CARL HAMMER, '98, } WILLIAM D. REE?, '98, . Assistant Editors. P. P. SHEEHAN, 98, Reportorial Staff. ON various occasions our attention has been called to the insufficiency of the coUege bulletin boards. Not long, ago a not~ce was picked up from the walk near the chapel, which was of con- side:rable huportance to the students. It evidently had been accidentally disturbed or the wind had torn it from its fastenings. The present boards are large enough and sufficiently well protected for notices which a1.·e placed there by students or boarding house keepers. It appears to THE CoN- CORDiENSIS·, however, that a bu1letin board for -the exclusive use of the faculty would be of great advantage to all concerned .. It would obviate the misunderstandings which frequenty arise regard- ing class- room work. on account of the disappear- LEROY T .. BR. ADF·O· Rp. '99, } F. ROY CHAMPION, 99, GEORGE 0. ROWELL, '99, GEORGE H. 'FISH, '99, - Albany Medical College. . ance of notjces which have been placed on the board by various members of the faculty. TERMS: .CONCORDIENSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Advance. Single Copies, . 10 Cents. PARTHENON,. - $1.00 per Year in Advance. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in .Ad.,. vance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to make checks pay- able to Ed ward E. Draper, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. OHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHEN.ECTADY, N.Y • . THE CoNCORDIENSIS was not published last week on account of the Thanksgiving recess. We are thus enabled to place it before our readers a few days earlier than usual. TH:H election is past. The great financial ques- tion which bas so thoroughly engrossed the n1inds of the people bas been definitely settled. In the opinion of many the country has been saved from almost certain ruin. As it has been in former times, wbe:h this nation has been threatened with disaster, the sons of Old Union have entered the fight and taken. a pronJinent part in the political affairs of the country. We have recently received a copy of Melvin D. Landon's (Eli Perkins) finan- cial pamphlet entitled Money. We call the atten- tion of all Union men to the efficient work which a right, loyal, son has done for his country in the recent political controversy. Many of us have long ago perused this pamphlet which so ably presents a true and intelligent discussion of the finances of this country, THE following communication suggests the re- ne-wat of the old press club which a few years ago existed at Union. Such an or?anization, if properly conducted, would undoubtedly be of great benefit to the college. However, in the past our press clubs have existed only in narne: Editor of The Concordiensis :-· \Your editorial in the last issue of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS concerning the the attitude of the· newspapers in this vicinity toward the athletic in- terests of the college, prompts me to ask space in which to present another phase of the matter, and one which seems to me to warrant the belief that the Schenectady newspapers especially are un justly criticised. I have no desire to excuse a certain Albany newspaper, though there are the strongest reasons for believing that the tenor of the articles which have of late appeared in that paper concerning athletic tean1s of Union, is not due to any policy of the paper, but to the y:outh, ignoranc~, conceit, and possibly malice, of the athletic reporter. But is not the following the true reason for the apparent attitude .of the Schenectady papers towards the foot ball teams of the college. The games which have been most severely criticised have been those played out of the city and especially in Albany. The Schenectady papers, 1nost of thern, had no representatives at those gan1es. and as no report of the gaines, save the last one, was furnished them, owing to the in- ertia of the press correspondents ·in college, if there are any, they were of dire necessity com- pelled to get their accounts from the Albany papers, and generally from the offending one. If the press club were in existence and under· the 1nanagement of an officer or officers of some executive attainments, I have no hesitation in say- ing that there wonld have been no occasion to ad- versely criticise the Schenectady papers. And possibly the interests of the college would be bet- ter served in the various newspapers and school periodicals which print college news. Schenectady, N. Y., Nov. 29, 1896. '93. pe: of vi< lea wt no wl so~ la< th btl inl bt: ru ha m: nc ar: th wl cl: m co to st of itl T. A tl IS tl rE llJ rn u a1 \ a ti 1\ tl 1 ' I

THE CONC6Rt>tENSIS. THE report of the Junior promenade which ap· pears elsewhere in this pape:r, is but a repetition i of the sam.e old story, financial failure. An indi- vidual in any business venture would quickly learn from ,e:xperience the foHy of attempting that which is almost certain to be unsucessful. It is . ' not so, ho-wever, with a body of students, none of whom ever feeiJ.s a personal responsibility, in the social ventures which are n1ade by his class. This lack of responsibility has in times past brought the student body into great disfavor with the bu.siness houses of Schenectady and the neighbor- ing cities. It has not only affected then1 as a body, but it affects them individually; and, in the long run, may materially hurt the college. If when a venture, su.ch as the last promenade, has proved unsuccessful,. an earnest effort, were made to liquidate all indebtedi~es, the result would not be so grievous. In the past, however, such an effort has not been made. At the present time there a1·e numerous unpaid bills outstanding, which were contracted in connection with other classes, but which cannot be collected. , The large dances have proved unsuccessful in many other ways. They are not representative college dances for the simple reason that they ar~ too expensive. It is nearly impossible for rt. student to go to one of these dances and get out of it for less than twelve dollars. Here are the items which usually accompany such a dance: Ticket, $3.50; Carriage, $3. 00 ; Flowers $2. 00 ; Bo~ Assessment, Incidentals, $1.00; Total, $11.50 To say that a dance is a social success when there is a deficit of one hundred dollars or more, is a poor -way of patching up a bad job. To say that such a dance as the recent pro1nenacie was a representative college dance when there were not more than. fifty students present is a hollow mockery, a fraud pure and simple. There is but one thing to do and that is to pull up the lines and slow down. We have been going at a too rapid pace. persoQal5. At the Teachers' Institute held in the city last week President Raytnond lectured on \Education Prof. Patterson \Mathen1atics and Prof. Hale on \ Rhetoric.\ The tenth annual convention of the Associa- tion of Colleges and Preparatory Schools of the 1\1iddle States and Maryland, will be held at the University of Pennsylvania Nov. 27 and 28. The main discussion at the convention is to be '' College Entrance Requirements.\ President Raymond will be one of the speakers. The Union alumni of New York city will hold their annual alumni dinner at Hotel Savoy on Dec. IO. Mr. Robert Bridges, one of the editors of Scribner'~ Magazine, will lecture on \ The Novel of Today,'' in the chapel, Dec. 4· Horatio G. Glen, '8t, Daniel Naylon, '84, Edwin C. Angle, '85, Allen H. Jackson, '86, and Frank Cooper, '93, have been appointed a comtnittee to take charge of the move1nent toward constructing a new athletic field for Union col- lege. Everett Stnith, '78, has been appointed general treasurer of the committee. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N\. Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 1'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count .offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ~.....:-THOMAS HAS THE BEST. Late Styles Wear Resisters. =======:::::::\ $1.00, $2.00 AND $3.00. Sole agents for the HANAN and BURT & PACK- ARD Shoes. 245 State St. PATTON & HALL.

.......___Atr\tERTISEMENT'B.-------- Union College. ANDREW V, V. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. It, President, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.,..-!The usual Classical Course, including French and Germa.n. .A.f,ter :Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.~The modern languages are substituted for the anciell't and the amount of Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Fh. B.--This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omisosion of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in :modern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of lJ. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering educa.tion, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and G erma.n, and a full course in English. 5. Sani.tary Course Leading to the Degree of :B. E.-:-· This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Lead.ing .to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of thEj College. Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- · day in September. Three years strictly gr~ded course. In- structioni by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and <;>perations. Clinical advantages excellent. E:Xpenses.~M;atriculati<m fee, $5; annual lectu:re course, $100.~ pei'petual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25 ;. dissecting fee, $10 ;;4abora.tory course, each, $10. li'or circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.,·Registrat:, ..Albilirly9 N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. l t occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course is one year, divided into twe semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues·or other information, ~ddress J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- tion address DE B.AUN VA.N AKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, 222·-Hamilton St. CHAUNCEY FRENCH:. SEWARD H. FRENCH. BNI®N eoLLEeE B®OK EXeJ1AN<3E,. All College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, PencHs and all necessary college supplies. New York University Law School. Confers LL.B., also (for graduate courses) LL. M. . Day and Evening Sessions. 'Tuition :Fee, $100. No Incidental Jlee~ Sixty-second year begins October Jst, 1896. For catalQglle., address REGISTRAR University. Washington Square, New York City. · fL c. F\UST:IN ENGRAVINGCO., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, .N.Y. Photo. Engraver-s, Illustrators and Designers. HaJf Tone, Line Etubiog and Phusochrome. Send For Estirnates. College work a Specialty. ® E!!QRAVEKS, ........ __ ALBANY, N. Y. Here You Have it! Right on the \ H i'l'l \! M\JLBE~T B~~S. & C~. 26 West 23<1 St .. New York, MANUFA:;:,:__~thletic Goods. GYMNASIVM, FOOT BALL AND GOLF SU PPl.,IES. Represented by +~·E. Room 1:9 M. S. S. C., Schenectady, N. Y. Orders taken for Sp01'ting Goods for all Seasons <>f the Year. A. E HEN' good~ Class. terR can\t QU' AT Agel

-ADVERTISEMENTS.- 7 F .· ·o ... o~ ·r.· · · · R:\'L·.L· • .·• .~-~~--~--~--~~--~--~--~ :v:tt ...................................................................... .. Su'Pplies. Every thing for the player-. Jackets, Shoes, Stockings, : Jerseys, Shin •Guards, etc. 4 Spald- ing's Officia'l Intercollegiate Foot , Ball, officially .adopted by the Inter- • collegiate Association. Complete Catalogue Falil and Winter Sports · free. ''The Nan1e the Guarantee.\ · ·A ~ S·PALD· .lNG·· & B·R· :o·S. NewYork_,chtcage, • U •. · . · . · · ., Ph1la. 31'1... State, Cor. Wall Street. GENTLEMEN:- You are all invitt:•d to see our stock of Fall and Winter • goods before buying. . OUR FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR ~ANY FOOT-WARJ£. SOLD ELSE-WHERE. Our stock is co.mplete, and we handle nothing but Fi·rst- Class-:Made Shoes- Priee from $2 .. 00 up. The latest style Win- ter Russet we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $3.48, can ~t be beat. QU'I RI'S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. BONBONS ~ --AND-- -?1 · CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. · lhe line6t ligar6 ct1ld the Bure6t o£ Mrug6, AT LYON'S DRUG ST:ORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE .. ~VOOD Bl{OS., ~~===---- ) ) +fl ) ) Agents for .... . · • · . 265 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Men's Outfitters, Full Dress Shirts, Fine Dress and Street Gloves, Latest Styles of Neckwear, Best Underwear, Hosiery, Collars, Cuffs, Etc. UNION LAUNDRY CO. • • • • of A.l Jan:y;, N. Y. 1.20 Wall Street, Opposite the Depot. OY.STERS A SPECIALTY. ~1 Meals for $3.00. Students' Patronage Solicited JOHN T. JOHNSON, Fashionable a.nd Popular Tailor. No. 35 Maiden Lane,. Albany, N.Y. SUITS FROM $18.00 UP. PANTS $4.00 AND UPWARD. L. T. CLUTE, ___ ..._ HATTER AND FURRIER • .Also, Trunks, Bags, Suit Oases, Gloves, UmbTellas, Canes, Etc. 227 ST A'TE S'fR E E'f. u..: (f) _j c w -1 - Cf) (f) (f) I- 0- .,., Oo:: :u oo 0 U)LL :;: >-(/) ~~ :-o -f:FT ):>- o:::W z~ oo.. -1 0 LL..(/) (f) 0 ~~ -ff+c <(0:: ~· . -u LLJO 0- 0..5 0 tf) > > ~~ z 0 LLJ c ~ -o 0 ~ I- (/) ):> ::> :u l) 9 CONRAD GOETZ, 3 CentTal ..tiTcade.

8 -ADVERTISEMENTS.--. - Union College Students ___ ~ •• tAM TRAbE •• From Head to Foot -· ---.A.'::t'-- W'S ' ALBANY, N. Y. · HoTEL KENMORE, ~ ........................................................................................................ ~-· .. .......................................................................................... . . L.EADING HoTEL .. OJJ, ALBANY, N.Y . Strictly First-Class. HEAD~UARTERS FOR UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props ---THE--- &DINe® ~INTER. <£Qas. t;urrows, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. * * ¥ ¥ Printing, Ruli~g, Binding, &c. ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ FURNITURE AND BEDDING ~ ALL~NDS ~FOR® STUDENTS ® USEl THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. P. F. McBREEN 218 William St., New York AL-:EAio 8 v PRINTER <9HE ... €DISON QOJT!EU, .L::::=;~_Sohenectady, N. Y. Ce·rttrally located, and the Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in the city. Headqua1~ters for Commercial Travellers and Tourists. 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIE10R. R. T. MOIR, ~~=====-­ soaKs, FINE 81'ATIONERY, PICTURE FRAMING, E'Tc. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ..... 338 State St., Senenectady, N. Y. ~- ~. y e)~~~' 1:::=======-- M \\Jl~n~ttllt o o •• ~ li \liE~~Iili~!NI~ll~~ OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS ....• The oldest house in the State. The largest dealer in the City. Sole agent for WASHBURN'S goods, and headquarters for everything in the line of music; ~54 STATlD ST., SCiiEN'lUJ'l'ADY, N. Y.

The Concordiensis. VoL. XX. UNION O~OLLEGE, DECEMBER 9, 1896. No. 11. ~ovel of Today. Mr. Robert Bridges, one of the editors of Scribner's Magazine and a frequent contributor to Life delivered a very interesting lecture on ''The Novel of Today\ in the chapel Friday. afternoon, Dec. 4· In opening his lecture Mr Bridges quoted a retnark of an \Arcadian\ friend that-. '~People who take the novel seriously seldom take life earnestly.\ He then drew a comparison between the work of a fatuous bridge-builder and an equally fatuous author, and raised the question as to whether the author's natue would not be remetubered long after the bridge-builder'.s name was forgotten. The lecturer defined the novel as an interpre- tation of life as it appears, and thus, as a tnan can of necessity see but little of this world, why should he not look through the '~windows ~f books\ and accurnulate as much as possible of other people's experience. The first type of novel in a classification of works of fiction was the \New Wotnan\ novel. This class of novels received rather severe treatlnent at the hands of the lecture1, who said that he was heartily in fayor of gi\ ing won1en \all the freedom possible but not to let her write novels about it.\ A poor type of thi~ class is Benson's ~'Dodo,\ wl~ile atnong the better works of this class are Mrs. Hutuphrey Ward's books. Mr. Bridges next spoke of the \Sanitariun1 Novel\ which is generally objectionable on ac- count of the attitude toward the world produced by _ill health. ·' Ships that pass in the Night\ is a fair type of this class. The third kind of novel spoken of was called the novel of '' Scien- tific Pessimisn1,\ which is an outcorne of the scientific spirit of the tin1es. This type is well exemplified by the dramas of Ibsen, in which a hopeless view of life is taken. As an antidote to the views of life found in the Scientific, we can turn to the \Scotch Dorninie\ novel typified by the books of Maclaren, Barrie, Crockett and the rest of the school of Scotch writers. The world has been channed with the pictures of }ovel_v life in Thrums and Drututochty, in which it is shown that wealth is not absolutely necessary for contentrnent. In conclusion Mr. Bridges spoke very highly of the books of Kipling and Stevenson, and tnade a plea for the healthy-minded novel and for the preservation of youthful enthusiastn in tnaturer life. Ia I) (l\aela r~I]. On Wednesday afternoon, Dec. 2, a large and appreciative audience gathered at the Van Curler to listen to the great Scotch author and lecturer~ familiarly known to the literary world as Ian Maclaren. With well chosen and complirnentary words Dr. Raytnond introduced the speaker, and when he arose, a large nutuber of students sitting in the body of the house greeted him with the college yell. To hear the author hituself, is to appreciate his works. 1'hey take on a new interest and deeper tneaning after one has hecotn~ person- ally acquainted with the man. In an easy, un- affected conventional style, n1ade all the tnore charn1ing by his peculiar Scotch accent, the author seetned to speak to each person indi- vidually, and carry hitu to the little Scotch village of Drumtochty, and into the hotnes of the tender hearted Scotch people. flmus~meQtS at t~(( Val) \urler. Dec. I r.-Miles Aroon.-Andrew Mack. \ 17 .-JYlargaret Fuller.

2 THE CONOORDIENSIS. Having be.en asked to speak of the proposed changes in the library,. I do so cheerfully, but re- gret that I shall be unable to state fully the in:t- provern.ents proposed, since sorne of the features are still under consideration by the faculty. · Evidently the sole ulthuate purpose of these, as well as all desirable huprovements, n1ust be the inc:Iieased efficiency of the library. present and future; and this Cfl.lls for both the permanence. i. e .. the safety of the n1ateria<l, and thP convenience of its use; two objects son1ewhat conflicting, for the greatest perinanence and safety possible would be that resulting fro1n such absolute protection and seclusion of the rnaterial as to render its use exceedingly inconvenient if not iinpossible; while the greatest possible convenience would, on the other hand, be one that would endanger the per- n1anence. In a coinpron1ise of these two con- flicting ailns clearly lies the condition of maxhnum efficiency; in protection without prohibition, and in convenience which does not sacrifice safety. In every public library of any ruagnitude, classification is an essential to convenience in use; hence the necessity of .a, cat::tlogue, which is sin1ply a device for easily finding what is wanted. The catalogue sy~ten1 adopted several years ago by our librarian was that of the Dewey Deciinal System, and a considerable portion of the library b;.~s been catalogued on this plan. The preparation of a catalogue on any syste1n and the shelving of books in accordance with it are Inatters of considerable rnag·jtitude and den1and co1npetent and reliable service under skilled direction; and the main- tenance of the catalogue with the growth of the library dentands lik~wise persistent attention and labor even if none of the work of catalogueing be und< me by 1nisplacing the books in returning thein to the shelves after use. Such Iuisplacernent is wholly unavoidable-even if unintentional-where general readers, not conversant with the details of shelf-classification nor its irnportance in finding books. are given direct access to the shelves, par- ticularly when they are expected to return to the shelvt>s the books they n1ay have been using. This direct access to the shelves has been in vogue in our library for some years past and the present defective condition of the card catalogue. while the result of several causes, is evidently due in no siuall degree to the cumulative and unavoidable nli~placeinents resulting from this direct access. The ten1porary conveniPnce of direct access has thus resulted in inconvenience from the difficulty or even the impossibility of finding books, for no prin~iple of library management is more true than that ·!.·a book misplaced i/)' a book lost.\ The chir-f problem with which our faculty has had to deal has befln therefore :-How best c.an the lib1·ary 1nateTial be protected [1'01n conj~~sion and loss 1Dith the least interje1·ence to its legiti1nate use?- The answer to this question is still under consideration, but no systern, however simple or efficient in theory, can succeed without the co- operation of the readers, whose interest alone is being considered. The work of correcting the catalogue and bringing it up to date has been pro- vidt>d for and will be comruenced as soon as the corp~ uf scholarl:)hip assistants 1 working u:nd~r the immediate direction of Mr Utter, shall have com- pleted the work of getting the unbound periodical matter in forrn for binding Provision has also been reeently made by the faculty for the withdrawal of books frow th~ library, by which syste111 bona fide students n1ay withdraw, for their own use, a stated number of books for a stated period of tiine under certain regalations, the details of which will be indicated in the Hbrary regulations. . Next to the rnatt·er of the Inisplaceinent of bool{s and the resulting irnpairrn~nt of the catalogue, staN.ds the int,erruption to readers in. the library by persons thoughtlessly talking or studying; this thoughtlessness consists in forgetting that others near us may perhaps not have the sarne iron- bound nervous constitution as ourselves that enables us to be oblivious of noise or confusion nGar us; much as this constitution is to be desired and developed, it will not do for us to assun1e that all others near us poss~ss it. and hence a just re- gard for the rights of others will show us the propriety of each one maintaining the utmost silence possible while in the library, as well as the reasonableness of a regulation just passed by the faculty against the use of the library as a study halL In the periodical reading room provision has been made by the faculty and h being carried out, by which the periodicals shall be placed in suit- able stiff covers or holders and the newspapers placed on newspaper file~. with proper places or receptacles for each periodical and paper, both of which will facilitate the use of the periodical niat- ter and tend toward its protection froin wear and ~uzy. . These changes enumerated con1pr1se those on which action has been taken; other changes are under consideration and will be announced if action results from them. The most promising feature in the present status of the library question is the decided interest which the students are taking in it, for without this interest and the co-operation which n1ay reasonably be expected therefron1. the most ela- borate and perfect plans would either. remain un- used or would fail for want of the needed co-oper- ation of readers. Standards of t.he past ~hould not be used as criteria for the present, but it u1a.y add encouragement to the present interest to recall that not many years ago the library WHS open on but few hours per week; th<tt no catalogup. what- ever was in existence; that the library proper was neither heated· in winter nor lighted in the even- ing; and that the nurnber of periodicals was srnall COIIl pared with the present list; and if one is tempted to feel discouragement a.t the rate at which further improvements a1·e made, it may be rem3irked that these improvements do not con1e for the asking and that to accornplisb· any real irn- proven1ent means the overco1ning of obstacles which perhaps never appear to the general reader. Thanks to the urgent solicitation of the President, the Board of Trustees at its 1ueeting in January, 1896, appropriated the su1n of $500 for library pur- poses, and a sinlilar an1ount at the meeting in June last. This n1oney is being used in the pur chase of new books, the binding of back numbers of the more important periodicals and in othet· purchases and expenditures needed to bring the libra.ry to the best condition possible. Though

'• TI!E <)ONdORbtE:Nsfs. the amount is not large, it exceeds that of recent past years, and on its proper expenditure, us~ and appreciation will doubtless depend ~he continua- tion of the policy of regular annt?-al library appro- priat.ions by the trustees, a pohcy greatly to be , desired and encouraged. Very respect:fu lly, . . ' N 30 1896 . OLIN H. LANDRETH. ov. . . . . §eQiors Defeat tlje· jul)iors. The Seniors and Juniors pia yed the decisive foot ball game in the Starin Cup series last Thursday afternoon on the campus and the Seniors won by the score of r o to o. In the first half of the garne Pearse tnade a touchdown but no goal was kicked. In the_ second half D. L. Wood scored a touchdown , and Williams kicked a goal. The line up was as follows: SENIORS 10. POSITIONS. JUNIORS 0. Cotton ............... left end ........... Hartnagel O'Neill. ............ .left tackle ........ G. Vron1an Multer. . . . . . ....... left guard .......... Merriinan Glazier ................ centre ................. Closs M. 0. Wood ........ right guar(l ............ :Brown Wingate ........... right tackle ... .' ......... Utter Fnller ............... right end. . . . . ....... Mallery Cooper .......... quarter back ............. Yates Pearse ............ left half back ......... Gutman D. L. Wood ... : .. right half back ............. Cox Williains ............. full back ............ Parsons Summary.-Referee-Umpire, Crichton, '98; Um- pire-Referee, Blodgett, '97; Tiruekeeper Thatcher, 1900; Touchdowns, Pearse, D. L. Wood; Goal, Williains; Tin1e of halves, 10 minutes. Y. fn. ~. fL Notes. Prof. Philip H. Cole, Pastor of the Second Refo1·med Church of this city and fonner assist- ant professor of English at Union College spoke to the students in the chapel Sunday afternoon. l-Ie chose for the subject of his talk Col. 2: 3· . Mr. Robert E. Lewis, traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer l\iovetnent was at Union College, Dec. 3 and 4th. There will be no Y. M. C. A. meeting on Dec. r 5, because of exatninations. The foot ball team was photographed by Talbot, Monday afternoon. ~eeeQt t~yptia17 Diseouerie5. The abundance of discoveries made in Egypt seems never-ending. Among the ne~r papyrus finds tnade in Fayum, the recent report of the authorities of the British Musen11n gives the fol- lowing :-Three &peeches ofDe.mosthenes ; some philosophical writings by Plato and other known and son'le unknown Greek: writers of the third century B. C. ; a private letter ·Of the Etnperor Hadrian; a recrept of Diocletion, which is the oldest papyrus of the Greek language ; a frag- ment of a lost Greek dratna; a nutnber of frag- tnents of Botner's poerns ; a second papypus contains 7co lines from books 13 and 14 ofthe Iliad. So far, only the upper strata of this storehouse of literary treasure have been removed. Another very int~resting late discovery is the nearly com- plete ~ccount on a Grreco-Egyptian papyrus,. of a suit brought before the Emperor Claudius against llerod Agrippa, king of the Jews, tnen- tioned in the book of Acts. The prosecutors are the two anti-Sernites of Alexandria, Isidorus and Latnpo. The papyrus contains an oiiicial account of the trial.- Cornell Daily Sun. TIJe fiew York ~lU(I)I)i BaQquet. The ninth annual re-union and banquet of the Union College Alurnni Association of New York, will be held on Thursday evening, Dec. 10, at the Hotel Savoy, Fifth Avenue and Fifty- ninth street, New York. It is expected that the following distinguished speakers will be present: President Andrew V. V. Raytnond. Bishop Potter, Rear Admiral Erben, Ron. Frederick W. Seward, Hon. John H. Starin, ex-Senator Warner Miller, and Hon1er Green the Poet. Besides these will probably be present, Mayor Strong, Hon. Bourke Cochran, Gen. Horace Porter, several metnbers of the facultv and ahunni fro1n this city and neighbor- hood. 1\'he Sophomore quartette will be in attend- ance, to lead the old graduates in singing the songs of\ Old Union.\

4 THE! CONOORDIENStS. THE CONCORDIENSTS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY 'l'HE S'TUDENTS OF UNION COLLEG-E. BOARD OF E.DirPOR8: F. PACKARD PALMER '97, Editor-in-Chief. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business Manager. HIRAM 0. TODD, '97,. Literary Editor. 0HARJjES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Asst. Bus. Manager. CARL HAMMER, '98, } WILLIA-M D. R:E. Ep. '98, Assi:stant Editors. P. P. SHEEHAN, 98, Reportorial Staff. LEROY T. BRADFORD '99, } F. RoY CHAMPION, '99. GEORGE C. RowEL:L, '99, · GEORGE R. FISH, '99. - Albany Medical College. T'ERMS: OoNCORDIENSIS, - $2. 00 per Year, in Advance. Single Copies, 10 Cents. PARTHENON, - $1.00 per Year in Advance. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance. Address all connnunieations to THE CoNCORDI- ENSI'3, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to Inake checks :pay- able to Edward E. Draper, Bu~iness Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. <: CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SOH EN ECTAD v, N.Y. THE TREASURY IS EXHAUSTED. PLEASE P A. Y YOUR SUBSCRIPTIONS. IT rs NEARLY tilne for son1e n1e1nbers of the Senior class to be agitating the question of a ciass banquet. THE attention of the college auth()rities is call~d to the fact that many of the windo\vs in_ the round building are broken. They should be repaired before the snow falls or the interior of the build- ing will be greatly damaged. Last year the frost loosened one of the Iuarble ~labs with which the walls are faced. TJnless some care is taken of the building Iuore dan1age will follow. THE Union College Alun1ni Association of New York hold their ninth annual banquet at the Hotel Savoy, Thurday, Decem her 10. THE CoN- CORDIENSIS wishes to call the attention of any of the younger alun1ni who chance to reside in or near New York city to this important event. We have received a coinmunication from Edgar S. Barney. Secretary, 136 Stuyvesant street, New York, in which he asks for the addresses of all Union College alumni living in or near the city. THE board of editors of THE CoNCORDIENSIS entered upon their duties at the cominencement of the coll(lge year full of .confidence in their ability to carry on the work of their predecessors in a Inannersueh as would be gratifying to the students and which VI ould refl.ect credit u.pon the institu- tion which they~ through the coU~ge press, repre- sent. While they reduced the size of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS of a year ago,. they doubled the num- ber of publications. They separated the literary n1atter from that of collbge news by reviving the old Union College PARTHENON. In IRany re- spects their efforts have been crowned with success. There is S,lifficient college news to fill a weekly paper considerably larger than the present CoN- CORDIENSJS. It is their intention to further im- prove the college weekly, but they desire to im- press upon the students the necessity of their sup- port. Every improvetnent means an additional outlay of money. 'Fhe attention of all is therefor called to the line which heads the editorial column of this issue. TH}j~ PARTHENON, which has twice been de- livered to the students and aluruni of the college, is a success. It does not, however, fitly represent an institution of such reputation and 1nerit as is Union College. THE PARTHENON should number forty pages instead of twenty. It should contain a large varjety of articles of unquestioned literary merit. Such a magazine, however, cannot be created and supported by its editorial board alone. ~very st!ld~nt in, college shonl_d take a personal ~nterest In Its welfare and contribute sonwthing to Its pages. So far but few have done otherwise than read and criticise. They should write and let the editors do the criticising. The board of editors earnestly solicits the active help of the students. It is necessary that they should have it. 6l]e §opgomor~ Soiree. The annual soiree given by the Sophotnore cla~s will be held in the Van Curler on Friday evening, February 19. The comtni ttee in charge are working hard to tnake it a grand social as well as a financial success. As usual, the metnbers of the different fraternities will occupy the boxes, and Gioscia will furnish the tnusic. Over nine hundred in- vitations will be issued. The committee in charge are: F. J. Bone- steel, A. B. Lawrence, R. Hall, F. H. Fisk, Jr., S. C. Medbery, Jr., W. R. Nellis, W. Tucker, F. R. Chatnpion, R. C. Gan1bee, H~ Beardsley and R. D. Mac Mahon. '

' T:H:m · dONOORDIENStS. The Tech, published by the under-graduates ; of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, appears this week in an appropriate Thanksgiv- : . . tng cover. The Hermonite, published in the interests of! the Mount Hern1on School, colhes to us regu- : larly, and is one of the best high school publi- · cations we have seen. Its editorials are ex- : cellent. The first number of The Ogdensburg Academy which appears this year is a marked itnprovement over the tnagazine of last year. It is a worthy exponent of the institution it represents. The November nutnber of· The Integral, which cotnes to us fi~otn the Case School of Applied Science, contains an excellent article entitled \ A Pilgrin1age to the Musician's Mecca.\ The Union School ~uarterly is an excelient paper. It pays particular attention to its ex- changes, which is comtnendable. The Po/Jytechnic, frotn the Polytechnic In- stitute of Brooklyn, is an excellent n1.agaz,ine. The Amherst Student is one of the most interesting and carefully edited publications which comes to us. persoQals. W. J. Kline, '73, made a visit on the hill Dec. 2. Irving W. Ketchum, '99, occupied the pulpit of St. Paul's African M. E. Zion church Sun- day evening, Dec. 6. Rev. Henry G. Dean, '93, of Peru, N. Y., . preached in the J aJ Street ~ongt~egational church Sunday, Dec. 6. Rev. Philip H. Cole, '88, pastor of the Second Reformed church, conducted services in the chapel Sunday afternoon, Dec. 6. Charles C. Nott, '48, one of Union's most honored alutnni~ has been appointed Chief Justice of the Court of Claims, by President Cleveland. Sanders, 1900, has gone home suffering with a severe attack of quinsy. Sage, ex-'99, private secretary to U. S. Con- gressrnan D~lvid F. vVilbur, was ,in. town last w,eek. Monday he left for Washington, D. C., where he will spend the winter. Rev. Dr. Dennis Wortrnan, '7o, of Sangerti,es, N. Y. and R~v. Dr. W rn. Elliott 'Griffis, of Ithoca, N. Y ., at one tirne a professor at Union~ will speak at the re-opening of the First Re- formed church, Wednesday evening, Dec. 9· At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE No. 1,5 North Pearl St., ALBANY,. N.Y. Yo~ will find. the WASHBURN King of Mandolins G~ntars, Ban,J os .and Zithers. ';rh~ Choices~ St.rin gs: Picks and Musical goods Withm 150 miles. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- co~nt offered.. Fraternities and Societies should wnte for terms on PIANOS. ~-.._THOMAS HAS THE BEST. Late Styles Wear Re.sisters. _========::\ - $1.00, $2.00 AND $3.00. Sole agents for the HA.NAN and BURT & PACK- ARD Shoes . 245 Sta,te St. PATTON & HALL,

~· AbVERT1Sl£MENT:S.- Union College. .A.:NDltEW V.',, V; BAYMO:ND, D. D., LL. D., P·resid.ent. Ut .. HON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Cou1•se Leading to the Degree of A. B._;The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After ~opho­ more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern languages are substitu,ted for the ancien.t and the amount ot Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered .. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering education,, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and G erma.n, and a full course in English. · 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. :Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Cou:rse in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address BEN.JAMIN .H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- structions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket; $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course is one year, divided into two semestet·s. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues oi· other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- tion address DE BAUN VAN AKEN, Ph. G., Secret~ry, 222 Hamilton St. CHAUNC:ElY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FHENCH. l1NI8N eOLLE,eE B80K EXeJi}lNSE. :AU Colilege Texts, Draughting lnstru- ,rnents and Materials, Pads, Pendls and all. necessary college supplies. New York University Law S:ch.ool. Confers LL.B.,. also (for graduate courses) LL. :M. Day and Evening Sessions. 'l'Uition Fee, $100. No Incidental Fee. Sixty-second year begins October 1st, 1896. For catalogue, address REGISTRAR University. Washington Square, New York City. fL c. A USTl N ENGRAVING GO., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. Collegeworka Specialty. {l_ll}iYLE & SON~ ® E!QRAVERS, ..---ALBANY, N'. Y. Here You Have it! Right on the \Hill\ M\JLBE~T B~~S. b C~. 26 West 23dSt .• New York, MANUFACTURERS OF Athl' t. G d ~ '. e tc . oo s. GYMNASIUM, FOO'T' BALL AND GOLF SUPPLIES. Represented by Le~. HEGEMAN,~ Room tg M. S. S. C., Schenectady, N. Y. Orders taken for Sporting Goods for all Seasons of the Year.

-ADVERTISEMENTS.- ·-r· · · · O;O·T·. . '\ \.r': L'L. · . -~-S?.-~ .. 1 -~--~Q .. ~ .. : .. ?. . v~ ········································································ SuppliPs. Everything for the player-Jackets, Shoes, Stockings, Jerseys, Shin Guards, :etc. Spaid- ing's Official Intercollegiate Foot Ball, officially adopted by the lnter- . collegiate Associa-tion.. Complete Catalogue Fall and Wi~t~r Sports free. '' The N ante the Guarantee.\ 811 State, Oor. Wall Street. G-ENTLEMEN :- You are all invit(•d to see our stock of Fall and Winte1· goods before buying. OUR FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR \'-._ANY FOOT-WARE SOLD eLSE-WHERE. Our stock is complete, and we handle nothing but First- Class-Made Shoes- Price from $2.00 up. The latest stvle Win- ter Russet we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $3.48, can't be beat. '.QUI RI'S-- Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. !he line6t §igar6 and the lure6tc~ Jlrug6, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, .335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. WOOD BROS.,~~===--- ) ) ) +II ) ) A,g-e~ts for , • . . • • • • • 26.5 State Street, S·chenectady, N.Y. Men's Outfitters, Full Dress Shirts, Fine Dress and Street Gloves, Latest Styles of Neckwear, Best Underwear, Hosiery, Collars, Cuffs, Etc. UNION LAUNDRY CO. , • , , of Al.)any, N.Y. 120 Wall Street, Opposite tlte Depot. OYSTERS A SPECIALTY. 21 Meals for $3.00. Students' Patronage Solicited JOH.N T. JOHNSON, Fashionab.le and Popular T.ailor. No. 35 Maiden Lane, Albany, :N. Y. SUITS FROM $18.00 UP. PANTS $4.00 AND UPWAR.D. L. T. CLUTE,_-=~ HATTER AND FU,RRIER. Also, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases, Gloves, Vmb'J•ellas, Canes, Etc. 227 S'TA'TE S'TREE'T'. u.: (/) _J c lLJ --1 .(/) (/) Cf)l- 0- .., Oo:: :::0 oo 0 (!)LL. !5:: >-(/) 2~ '\() -ff+ )::>- O::W z9J oa.. -tO u_C/) (fJ 0 . ~ ..oq.c ~0:: ~0 ~-o 0- 0...3: 0 (;/) )> (/)>- z 0::~ 0 LLJ c ::E 0 \'tJ 1- ~ (/) )> :::> ::::0 u ~ CONRAD GOETZ, 3 ()entraZ A-rcade, JtLE R C HA.NX XA.I.LOR,

8 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- U . n· I··.on· · \C\ ·;o·l• J·eg\ e· ct•u\ .. \ ·d• e··n· .· .t·s· _ -~;; \ . . . ' . . : \ \ . \ \ \ 0 \ \ . . \.\ . :\ \ . --..........- ~ ' :::·.:·;;::.:·.::::·.:·.:·:.:·:;;;;::::::::::.:·::::::.:·::::::::::::.·:.:·.::·.:·:.:'.::::::::: · .. LEADING HOTEL .. of ALBANY, N. Y . •• tf.IN T'RA.DE •• Strictly Fi rst-Ciass. From Head to Foot HEAIJ~UARTERS FOR UNIO!V MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props ~--TH:E--- SA~ 19'8 ' ~DING® ~INTER. Q:f?as. nurroros, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A~BANY, N. Y. Printing, Ruling, Binding, &c. ..... ~ ES':r.A.::SL:CS:S:E::O :1.9 :2 9. ~>as\ •• ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ FURNITURE AND BEDDlN.G ~ ALLc:rNDS ~ FOR® sy·uoEit·ts ® u·s:e, THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. - P. F. McBREEN 218 William St., New York AL-:EAAYDSY PRINTER (9HE ... €DISON f)OrrtEL, L::::.:::=::.=--_Schenectady, N. Y. Cuztrally located, a11d the Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in the ct\ty. Headqua1·ters for Commercial Travellers and Tourists. G.HP\8. BROWN, PROPRIETOR. R. T. MOIR, ~\~\ ~==-­ so·oKs, FINE STArriON ERY, PlG'fVRE FRAMING, ETc. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ..... • 333 State St., Sc1~e.n-er-tady, N. Y. ~. 12\._. y e) v ~ e}' 1===----=====-- M ~~n~ffllt. o o o o ~ li \lJE.~~Ifll@JN~n~~ OF ALL :DESCRIPTIONS .•... The oldest house in the State. The largest dealer in the City. Sole agent forW .ASHBURN'S goods, and headquarters for everything in the line of music, ~G<l S'l'~:r.~ ST., SC:P:ENECTA.DY, N, y,

The VoL. XX. UNION COLLEGE, ~DE'CEMBE:R 16, 1896. No. 12 .. The annual dinner of the New York Alurnni Association attr~cted a large and loyal gathering of Union's sons in the banquet hall at the Hotel Savoy, Thursday evening, Dec. 10. Assembled with the sons of the college were such prominent tnen as John H. Starin, of the hoard of trustees.; Gilbert K. Harroun, treasurer; Rear Adrniral Erben, Rt. Rev. Henry C. Potter, D. D., Dr. George T. Stevens and Chancellor Henry 1\11. 1\IIacCracken. Frotn the college were President Ra ytnond, Professors Willianf Wells and Sidney G. Ashn1ore, H. C. 'I'odd, '97, and the Glee Club Quartette, con- sisting of H. J. Hinn1an, '99, R. D. MacMahon, '99, R. M. Eatnes, '99, and F. L. Green, '99· 'l'he banquet hall was tastily decorated with the national colors. Beside each plate ·was placed a souvenir tnenu printed in garnet and tied with ribbon of the sa.me color. T'he cover was illustrated with Union views. 1'he college quartette and an orchestra fur~ nished the tnusic of the evening. At the close of the dinner Rev. D.r. George Alexander, as toastmaster, arose and proposed the toast, \The Flag of Our Country.\ It was· drunk by all standing, and was followed by the singing of'\ The Star Spangled Banner.\ Rear Adt11iral Erben was then introduced and spoke eloquently upon the national emblem. The next speaker was President Raymond. He spoke interestingly upon the university idea, as it has been developed in An1erica, and showed the distinction between the sphere of the college and that of the untversity. ~'Union's Guests\ was the next toast. It vvas delivered bv Chancellor MacCracken of New \ York University. Prof. Giddings, '77, followed with a masterly address up?n the toast ''Union's Alumni.\ In closing he briefly reviewed the results achieved by Union rnen because of tl1C<i1· distinctive training. ~~The Spirit of Union'' was the subject of Bishop Pot~ter's address. Warner Miller then responded to the toast ·' Union's T1·ustees.\ Prof. Sidney G. Ashrnote answered to the toast \Union's Faculty.\ His scholarly and earnest words were received with rapt attention. Horner Green placed all his charming per- sonality in,to his address in respo1lSe to the toast ~\Union's Men of Letters.\ His retnarks abounded in the wit and happy expression of the acco1n plished after-dinner speaker. At the business session of the association that was held before the banquet, the following officers were elected for the ,ensuing year : President, Rev. Dr. George A[exander ; first vice-pTesident, Silas B. Brownell; second vice- president, Dr. Daniel M. Stimson; secretary, Edgar S. Barney ; treasurer, William C. Rober- son; executive committee, Rev. Dr. Charles D. Nqtt, Williarn L. Kennedy, Jr., Prof. Franklin H. Giddings, Henry F. I)e Puy, Talcott C. Van Santvoord, CoL Charles E. Sprague, George H. Daley, Clarke Winslow Crannell, George E. Marks, G~en. Daniel Butterfield, Charles W. Culver, Dr. Louis A. Coffin, Howard). Cole, Frank Bailey and George T. Hughes. T'he mid winter exatninations will be held in Alutnn i Hall beginning this week Friday. The training school for nurses, V\t-hich the faculty has long been wishing for, has at last becorne ~l reality and is now open in connection with the Albany Hospital. This is under excellent tnanagetnent and gives protnise of being one of the most prot11inent schools in the country &

2 THE' CONCORDIENSIS. J3AYERSCHE .STRA.SSE, 64:, LJiJIPZIG, DEUTSCHLAND, den 1. Dec. 1896. Editor of The Concordiensis .·- DEAR SIR:-·It has been a question in my mind whetber the\ CoNCORDY ''and its readers would welcorue an artic~efrom the pen of one who .always has tbebest interests of ''Old Union\ at heart. At least 1 have deeided to write a short article conce1·ning ~he German University as it impresses me. He:re,.in the University of Leipzig~ we havesome th:ree thousand students. All the leading nations of the -world are represented. Among the foreign stu den. ts A.1nerica appears to be ahead in numbers· It is, noedless to say that a person may make a specialty of any subject under the head of liberal a1·ts,. besides there are departments of· law, Inedi- cine and theology. A curious fact might here be noted, viz., that e-verything not under the head of the last three is classed in the department of phil- osophy: whether it be philology, history, science or what not. On_e of the leatling features of the university see:nts to me to be the absolute freedorn of the students. There are no restraints whatever, except · sueh as the students theinselves n1ake. A man n1ay corne and go when he pleases and no one pays any attention. The Professors come into the roo1n at the appointed hour and immediately pro- ceed wi~th their work. The lectures are listened to with the utmost attention, So far as I know \ bolis \ are very rare . Every man is there because it is bis desire to be there, not because he fears a reprimand or a \zero.':~ In spite of, and I don't know lJut I may say because of, the fact that the students a1·e put upon their own responsibility, it must be admitted that the most perfect order prevgiJs. Can we, as Americans, not gather a lesson from this? A.re our students less reliable and less up- right than the Gern1an students? Why not work towasrd the Ger1uan plan in our Atneriean colleges? Youn~ u1en who do not realize what they are in college for are of but little use to the college wot·ld. I ~m not one of those who are ready to adtuit that Americans are inferior to any other people. I have not seen a tuinute since I reached this foreign land when I was not ready to shout . the praises of An1erica as contrasted with all other nations. Certainly the American college is one of the Dl()St worthy institutions of our land and ought to be the place above all others where self- relianee and self-respon~libility are developed. Heartily wishing sucePss to ''Old Union,\ I arn truly yours, LOREN c. G-UERNSEY, '95. Base Ball :prospects. It is rather eady to know anything very definite about the base ball season but the ~ prospects at present are for a strong teatn. The team wiU comtnence training shortly .after vacation and then more will be known of their capabilities. Nolan, '99, Purc:aase, '99, Par- sons, '98, who has been elected captain, and Wiley, '99, of last year's team_ will probably play their old positions. Thatcher, ryoo, has played base ball and is good in tthe box or on third base. Campbell, '97, and Reynolds, '99, will also try for the box. For catcher there are Hegeman, '99, Miller, rgoo, Clarence Stewart, rgoo, and Quinlan of the A. M. C. who has helped the team so well before. Edwards, 1900, will try for short stop, J. C. Merchant, '98, who played two years ago, for second base, and Davis, '1900, who played on the Ridgefield A. C. last year, for third base. Delehanty of the .tl.. M. C. has played on the Fordhan1 team and an effort will be made to secure him. Smith, '99, is a promising candidate for the field. 1\here are other players in college who have not handed in their names and it is ry- quested that they do so at once. The schedule has not been completed but an Ea~ter trip will probably be taken. r;~e _AIIisoQ-Foote Debate. The Allison-Foote prize debate which was held last year on May 29, will take place tl1is year about the la&t of February. The subject has been announced as follows : '' A Wise Policy for the United States Precludes Terri- torial Acquisition Beyond Our Present Fron- tiers.\ The Adelphic society has· chosen for its debaters: Cullen, '98, Swann,' g8, and Utter, '98. The Philomathean debaters are: Brown, '97, Reed,. '98, and Holcombe, '98; alternate, Thomas, 'g8. Prof. James Truax returned home Monday, Dec. 14.

The ca:ptains of ali f<>ur 'varsity teams won high grades at Harvard last year. The plans of Columbia's new gymnasium have been filed with the building department. The gymnasium will be I'75 feet wide, by z6o feet long, a-nd will be seven stories high. Harvard has issued a call for lacrosse candi- dates, and will soon select a team. CohJit~bia University is to hav,e a new boat house on the Hudson R.iver, which will cost $rs,ooo. The two new dorn1itories in progress of erec- tion at Princeton will be ready for occupancy by the beginning of the second term. Each build- ing will accotnrnodate about fifty students. It has been decided to make intercollegiate bicycle meets annual events. It is proposed to invite entries from every institution ho:lding rnernbership in the Intercollegiate Athletic Pri,nceton is to have a new library to cost $6oo,roo.. Its capacity will be 1, zoo,ooo volun1·es. · Association. The University of California will offer a course · in the Chinese language and literature for the · . ensutng year. Yale has a new .syrBphony orchestra, the first organized in an Atn,erican university. It is backed by the faculty with an appropriation of $I500, and is intended to be a permanent Harvard spends $17,ooo yearly toward in- creasing the library ; Yale, $7 ,ooo ; and Col um- · organization. The Harvard Faculty bas passed the follow- bia, $tJ,OOO. The 01ytnp1c games in 1900 will be held in . Paris, and in 1904 the cotn<tnittee will choose between New \ ... ork, Bet-Tin and Stockh<;:>lm. In Gennany one man in 213 goes to college; in Scotland one in 520 ; in the United States • one in 2~000; and in England one in 5,ooo. The natural history department of the Maine State college has received the body of the first hooded seal known to have been seen on Maine's coast. At tl~e last con1mencement the University of Michigan conferred 7 55 de.grees, the greatest number conferred by any institution in the world. Yale spent $34,000 last year on athletics. Of this, ~ro,ooo was subscribed \>y the under- gradu:ltes .and the remainder was raised by the proceeds of the games. HalYard has adopted a new system of strength tests by which any ma.n can tell exactly where he stands in his total strength compared with other :men in his college. ing rule: ''The Administrative Board of the college, holding that the handing in by a student of written work not hi's own is dishonor- able, proposes to separate from the college a student guilty of such conduct, and to post his narne on the college bulletin boards. Princeton has instituted a permanent military organization under the entire control of the students; only those in gooJ standing will be eligible for tnetn bership. There are to be con1- mi ssioned and non-cotnmissioned officers, to- gether with a recruiting comtnittee, a special comn1ittee and a court tnartial to recotnmend members for expulsion. The company will be called theM ercer Blues of Princeton university. J. William Jvlacey, one of the impersonators in the second entertaintnent of '\The People's Popular Course,\ was given a reception after the entertainment Tuesday evening, Dec. 8, at the Phi Gamn1a Delta House. Twenty candidates have begun training for the Harvard fencing team, which will represent . Harvard in the intercollegiate fencing tourna .. ment to be held in New York during the Christ· • Robert C. Alexander, Editor of the New York Mail and E-xpress, and Talcott C. Van Sant- voord, Assistant Cashier of the Lincoln National Bank of New York, both n1emhers of the class of 'So, were elected members of the Union League Club .of New York at its meeting on December 10. ' mas va.cation.

THE OONCORDIEN'S!S. THE CONC;ORDIENSIS. t'UBLi:.SHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE cOLLEGE YEAR. BY THE SrUDENTS OF UNION COLLEG.B-;, BOARD OF EJJITOBS: F. P A.CKA.RD P.ALMER. '97, Editor--in-Chief. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business Manager. HIRAM C. TODD, '97, Lite.rary Editor. CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98,, - Asst. Bus. Manager. CARL HAM~lER, '98, } WILLIAM D. :REE,D, '98, · Assistant Editors. P. P. SHEEHAN, 98, LEROY T .. BRA.:D.FORD '99, } F. ROY CHAMPION, '99, GEORGE C. ROWELL, '99, . Reportorial Staff. :GF.ORGE H. F~SH, '99, - Albany Medical CoHege. TERMS: CONCORDIENSIS, - $2.0() per Year, in Advance. Single Copies, 10 Cents. PARTHENON, - $1.00 per Year in Advance. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. relative enjoyment of either game, depends upon the temperm·ent of the players. In one it is a ques- tion of brok~n sticks, in the other broken heads and shins. The old Scotch garne has found rnany a11dent supporters both arnong the faculty and the students today. Many of the new players show a natural aptitude in swinging the sticks and have made some remarkable scores. The round of the college links has several tirues been Inade in 46 and several other players hold a record as low as 52. The first intercollegiate game of go~f in Arnerica was played bet ween Yale and Hat·vard this fall. Yale won. The game bids fare to beeorne very popular thoroughout the college world. The CONCORDIENSIS suggests that the Hill club make arrangements to play a few games with other collegiate institutions. The college tearn might lose to be sure but other Union College teams have lost. They also stand a good chance of winning and that would be such a novelty that it would be well worth trying for. Subscribers are requested to make checks pay- OC!(I\OOd u 1 ·ll·ed at .the Ba·ttJo O·f t:ua 1 ·maro. able to Edward E. Draper, l3usiness Manager. o'5' '\ 1 / , 'lu Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. OWING to the additional wqrk in connection with examinations the publication of the P ARTHE- NON has been necessarily delayed. Students desiring their magazines during vacation should leave their home address with the businesR rnan- ager. THE position which the Frflshn1an clas!i has taken in refusing· to adopt the honor systen1 is to be commended rather than condemned. The question of adopting an honor system by any class in college should receive the n1ost careful con- sideration. It should. be supported not by a 1nere rnajority vote but by a strong sentin1ent finding expression in a una~imous or very nearly unani- mous vote of the class. Otherwise it would fail in rectifying the very evil it is intended to correct. THE enthusiastic golf players will shortly lay aside their sticks and, by way of diversion, turn their attention to skating and the good old game of shinny. Both games are excellent and furnish abunda.nt exercise to the players. The HE vVAS TRAINING ONE OF HIS GUNS ON THE SPANIARDS WHEN HE WAS STROCK BY A MAUSER BULLET. 1'he \ Herald's correspondent writes fron1 the headquarters of the Cuban anny at Guain1aro, Catnaguey, under date of Octob~r 29th, that Winchester D. Osgood fell during the siege that preceded the capture of that place. On the second day of the siege, as Major Osgood, under heavy fire fro1n the Spaniards, was training one of his pieces on the forts, a Mauser bullet struck hin1 in the forehead. The news of his death deeply itnpressed President Cisneros and the con1n1anding officers, all of whotn had great tegard for the Atnerican officer. A few months after his graduation, in 1895, Osgood, whose sytnpathies had been excited by the news of the struggle in Cuba, bade farewell to ftiends and fatnily and joined one of the expeditions frotn this city for the little island. His proffered services as a volunteer were grate- fully accepted by the leaders of the insurgents, to whorn his knowledge and ability as a civil

'rttm CONd,()Rbt:ENSiS. engineer, no less than his personal bravery and inborn capacity for leadership, soon rendered hin1 of the greatest value. He served with dis- tinction in many en;gagen1ents, and his pro- tnotion was rapid, he having attained the rank of maJor but a short titne before ·his untimely death. Osgood entered Pennsylvania in 1893, frotn Cornell, and spent two years in the departtnent of philosophy. He was a member of the Phi Gam rna Delta fraterni tv. Some details of Osgqod's athletic record at the univ,ersity will be of interest. In March, '93, he won the bicycle race and in April he tnade a new college record on the bicycle of 5 minutes 51 r-5 seconds. In the spring of '94 he again made a new collegiate record of 5 n1inutes ro seconds for the two-mile bicycle 1·ace. In. the commencement week .gatnes 9f the san1e year he won the two-mile bicycle race in 5 tninutes aud 10 seconds, equaling the reccrd . tnade previously in the spring sports. In the last of the series of spring gan1es of '94-'95 helc..i after the intercollegiates, he rode the two-tnile bicycle race in 4 .minutes and 55 seconds,. mak- ing a new collegiate. record. Later on he was paced over the distance, which he covered in 4 n1inutes, 49 3-5 seconds. In '91 Osgood distinguished himself as half- The request was granted and in the near future Dr. Potter will 1·emove to Schenectady, where he will spend the remainder of his life in the town of his birth and 'in close relation with friends and relatives .. p·ersoQals. Howard Mallery, '96, of Middleburg, visited relatives in the city last Saturday. Murphy, 1900. has ac·cepted a position as teacher in a private school near Tarrytown. French, '99, attended the banquet given by the Alpha Zeta's, Tuesday evening, Dec. 8. Eames, '99~ attended the receptioh given by the Philolethian So~ieiy at Vassar, Friday Evening, Dec. 4· \' PIANOS FOR ·CHRISTMAS THOMAS' MUSIC STORE ' back on the foot-ball tean1, when his brilliant runs were the talk of the foot-ball vvorld.-· In '94 and '95 he boxed and wrestled on the gytn- The largest stock in Albany, and at reduced prices. Soh- mer,Kingsbur)r ,Knabe, Brown & Simpson, Emerson Pianos, in all kinds of beautiful, glit- tering cases. Brtng in the daughter and select one for Christmas. Terms to suit every pocket. Select now for Holiday delivery. Banjos, Guitars, Mandolins, Violins, Drums, Autoharps, Accorde- ons, Reginas, Toy Pianos, ete. Largest stock.· nastic teatn, having in '93 won the middle- 1 fi N, Pearl St. weight amateur wrestling J.·cha·t~p.ion~hip of +==================+ America. He was 5 ft. 9 in. ·:high':.an.d weighed , .=================== 180 lbs.-· The Pennsylvania. · -~· ., ----------'-\--· . \. preside!]t potter of }'lobal't. ·:~olleQe } ·. (1esi~Q5. · · -~ · J (From the New York Sun.) GENEVA; N. Y., Dec. 13.-Dr. Eliphalet Nott Potter, President of Hobart College, ten- dered his resignation as head of that institution to Ex-Senator Hamtnond, the chairrnan of the executive cotnmittee of the college, late last evening. The reason given ·by Dt> Potter is that his health vvill not penn it of his continuing in the duties of a college president any longer. At the recent meeting of the board of trustees held in New York City, \'December 10, Dr. Potter expressed a desire to spend the ren1ainder of his life on the grounds of Union ··college. He stated that his ·health would not }·permit of his re~ainil}g in active life any· .t_onger, and he Wtshed to be allowed to erect a house on the college property at the juncture ofUnion Avenue and Union Street. Late Styles Wear Resisters. -~ $1.00,$2.00 AND$3.00. Sole agents for the HANAN and BURT & PACK- ARD Shoes. 245 State St. PATTON &:, HALL.

Union College. .AND~EW V, V. ltA.YMOND, D~ D., I.I.. D., President. UNION COtLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree ·of' A. B.-The usual Classical Course, :including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-=-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot Mathematics and -.English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a hirge list of electives is offered. 3. Course Lea,ding to the Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the A. B. eourse chiefly in. the omis-sion of Greek and the substitution therefor o~ additional work in modern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree ofB. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineeri!lg education, inchtding the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sa,nita,ry Course Leading to the Degree of B. E._,.... This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering. studies. 6. Electrical Ceui·se Leading to the Degree of :B.~·::­ This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Ele.,~· · tricity and its applications, in place of some of the Geners: Enginee1·ing studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Coui•se in Engineering Leading to the Degree o:fC. E.-A course of one year offered to.gradnates of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address BENJAMIN H. RIFTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. •:rh1·ee years strictly graded course. ln- ~truetions by lectu1·es, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: pe1·petual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10: laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address \VTIJLIS G. 'l 1 UOKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course is one year, divided into two ~emesters.· • Ji~xl.,~nses.-Matriculation Fee, $10; 'l'n.ftion fee, $100. For (•.at alogueR·m· ()the_l'iTiforrnation, Midress .J. NEW'J'ON FIEH.O~ Dean. ·· · AI1BANY I1.-\ W SCHOOL, A.lbany, N.Y. ··---------------- ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY Exercises beld.in Albany Medical'College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct .. 5. For catalogue and informa- tion address DE 84. UN YAN AKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, 222 Hamilton St. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. BNI®N eOLLE6~· B90K EX'e]1}1N6E. All College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, .Pads, Penci1ls and arl necessary college suppli;es. New York University Law S:ehool. Confers. LL. B., also (for gradu~te courses) LL. M. . Day and Evening Sessions .. 1.'uition :E'ee, $100, . No Incidental Fee. Sixty-second year begins October 1st, 189&. For catalogue, address, REGISTRAR University. Washington Square, New York C1ty:. a. A us·T.I N ENGRAVING ao., ••• 80 &. 82 State St., Albany, N. Y • fi ,'! .; • Photo. Engravers, Illustrator~ and Designers. Half Ton~, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. MAK.ERS T·o, LJ·N:It.ON: UNIV.ERSITY. 472 and 474 Broadway, Albany, N. Y. Hexe You Have it! Rt.gbt on the \Hill\ ! 26 West23d St .. New York, MA~UFAC'l'URERS 0}' Ath·l t. G d . e 1c oo s. ~---···························· GY M·NA8lU M, FOOT .BALL AND GOLF SUPPLIES. Represented hy .., ..... E. ..... . HEGEMAN,~ Room rg M.S. S. C., Schenectady, N. Y, Orders taken for Sporting Goods for .all Seasons of the Year.

-ADVERTISEMENTS.- 1 F . ,'o.· ··O····r· ·· \ 11 L· ... L·~,',· .. · ·. -~-~-~-~-~~~-~-'.?. ·Vl1 ....................................................................... . t KES T A\lKAHT Supplies. Everything for the player-Jackets, Shoes, StoCki-qgs, Jerseys, Shin Guards,. etc. Sp~ld­ ing's Official Intercollegiate Foot Ball, officially adopted by the Inter- collegiate Association. Complete Catalogue Fall and Winter Sports free. '' The N an1e the Guarantee.\ A. G. SPALDING & BROS., New~~:fl~~icago, 311 State, Oo'l'• Wall St1•eet. GENTLEMEN :- you are all invited to see our stock of Fall and Winter goods before buying. - OU~ FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR ANY FOOT-W .AR~ SbLD ELSE-WHERE. ' Our stock is complete, and we handle nothing but' JrP,·s.t- Class-Made Shoes- Price from $2.00 up. The latest style Win- tel' R:usset we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $&~48, · can't be beat. ·. QUIRI''S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the lure6t ott JJrlJg6, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. WOOD BROS.,~. ~===-.._ . · . · • 265 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ) ) ) +II ) I) Agents for •..• Menls Outfitters, F uH Dress Sh i.rts , Fine Dress and Street Gloves, Latest Styles of Neckwear, Best Underwear, Hosiery, Collars, Cuffs, Etc. UNIO'N LAUNDRY CO. .•• -of .AlJany, N.Y. 120 Wall St1•eet, Opposite the De-pot. OYSTERS A SPECIAL:TY. 92_1 Meals for $3.00. Students' Patronage Solicited JOHN T. JOHNSON, Fashionable a.nd Popular Tailor. No. 35 Maiden Lane, Albail~', N.Y. SUITS FROM $18.00 UP. . PANTS $4.00 AND UPWARD. l L. T. C L U T E ·---==-===\::::::::.:::-.: t HATTER AND FURRIER. Also, Trunks, Bags, Suit Oases, Gloves, VmbTeZlas, Oanes, :Etc. 227 8~A1\E S'T'REE\f. u.: _J LLJ .r.n ~!::: Oo:: oo (!}Lt.. >-(/) ·~ ~<( o::W oa.. LL.Cf) ~~ -=tO:: wo 0..~ (/) (/)>- 0::~ w ~ 0 1- (/) ::> L> CONRAD GOETZ: -------- (j) c --i (/) 'T1 ::0 0 g \J-f:f+ )>- zOO -lo (flo .f:::f+c ~-a 0. 0 ::t> z CJ c: -o ~ )> ::0 9 ll'IEBOHA.N'l.' TA .1/AJR,

8 ----.AD VERTISEMEN'rS.-- - Union Colleg.e Students _ ______.,.,. From Head to Foot. 19'8 ' ALBANY, N. Y. HoTEL KE.NMORE,-===::::::\ •ooooeo••••H•••uo••ou•••~••••ooooo••-•••••••••••••••••••••H•••oon,.o••••••OOO~O .................................................................. ~ ............... ~ ................ . .. LEADING HoTEL .. of ALBANY, N. Y. Strictly ,First-Class. HEAD~UARTERS FOil UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props -~-THE~---- ~DING® ~I]fTER. (£~as. ·l3 urrows, 332 STATE ST., SC:HENECTADY, N.Y. Printing, Ruling, Binding., &tc. -------=---=-=-=- ============================ ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ FU.RNITURE A.ND BEDDING ~ ALL~~NDS ~ FOR® STUDENTS ® .U·SE, THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN ,·SCHENECTADY. P. F. McBREEN 218 William St., New York AL'([E~v:v PRINTER (9 HE - .. €DISON I)OTllEU, ~ Schenectaciy, N.Y. Centrally located, attd the Largest a1td Best Appo-inted Hotel t'n the cz'ty. Headquarters for Commercial Travellers and Toztrt'sts. GH/18. BROWN, F~OF'Rtti'OR. R. T. MOIR, ~-~- ~==--­ BooKs, FINE 81'AI'IONERY, PI .. GTVRE FRAMING, E'fc .. Wl'EAMSHIP AGENCY •.... 3tl3 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS ..... The oldest house in the State. The largest dealer in the City. Sole agent for W .ASHBURN'S goods, and headquarters for everything in the line of music., 254: S'l'A'l'-!1 S'J' .. , S.OHJ.IJNEC'l'ADY~ N. ¥. I

