The ·c d. · ·. .. oncor 1ens1s. VoL. XX. PUB,LISHE·D WEEKLY BY THE STUD:ENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. F'EBRUARV 6, 1897. No. 17.

2 THE CONCORDIENSIS. UNION COLLEGE .lln)IIW V. V. BAYKON'D, D. D., I.L. D., President. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French a.nd German. After Sopho~ :m()r• year the work is largely elective. 2. Vourse Leading to the Degree of B. S._:The modern . languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ol Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Cour,se Leading to the !Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the .A.. B. course chiefly ip. the omission of Greek and tho substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. · · .£. General Coli.l'Se Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering eduea.tion, including the fundamental prin<~iples of all special· branches of the :prOfession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanita1•y Course Leading to the Deg1•ee of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to tl'le Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is o;ffered in co-operation with tho Edison General Electric Company. \/. GJ.•aduate Cou~se in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.- A course of one year offered to graduates ot Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry Metallur~y and Natural History. For catalogues or for apeeiai information address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the ColleJre, Schenectady, 1f. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany :Medical College.-Term commences last Tues .. day in September. Three years strictly graded eourse. In- structions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expensei.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100 : perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, ~'25; dissecting fee, JlO; laboratory course, each, $10. :For circular address )VILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany,~. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occnpies a. building wholly deToted to its use. The ~Qurse is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercise• held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Honda.y, Oct. 5. J'or catalogue and informa- ~iOil addre11 DB BAUN VAN AKEN, Pb. G., ~eeretary, m HamlltoD St. --ALBANY- • • • • . . . Art U11ion. (Formerly Sterry's Studio,) 55 NORTH PEf\R'L ST., • • ALBANY, N. Y . .. Highest Grade of Photography. BONBONS -·.-AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 an.cf the lure6t of. Drugo, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. Do You Know . ...................................................................................................................................... ... ................................................................................................................ _ .... . That a good way to secure a position a.s teacher is to register in the • . • . Albany Teachers' Agency? ......................................................................................................................................................... .......... •• _ ............ ·~··!••• !\'~!-••····· ...................................... - ................................................. ; ..................... . If not, send for circulars and learn wl1at it can do for you. HARLF\N ·P. FRENGH, 24 State Street. ALB .A. :NY, N. y.

.. The Con_cordiensis VoL. XX. UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY 6, 1897. No. 17. o·t}e l.IQiOQ CQolle~e §o·eial <elu:b. On Friday Evening last the Psi Upsilon, Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi and Alpha Delta Phi fraternities a~sembled at the Sigma Phi house and perfected an inter-fraternity organization which has been under consideration for some time. A committee which had been appointed early in the week for the purpose of drafting a con- stitution, reported. In substance the constitu- tion stated, that the above named fraternities do hereby constitute themselves a club for the pur- pose of promoting social intercourse between the aforesaid fraternities. ProV:ision was also made for a corps of officers, consisting of a president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer and executive committee. ' After considerable discussion the constitution was adopted article by article. The following officers were then elected: C. S. Daley, presi- dent ; Charles J. Vrooman, vice-president ; Paul Canfield, secretary; Richard G. Perkins, treas- urer. The above na.med officers are to constitute. the executive committee. The executive committee have formulated a scheme by which the desired sociality of the club may be established and sufficient interest awakened to make the club a success. A series of inter-fraternity contests in whist and bowling have been decided upon. The executive com- tnittee are arranging the schedule of games and players which is to be operative throughout this term and probably part of the spring term. Already the greatest interest is being tnani- fested in the organization which will increase as the games progress. Meetings are to be held at the various fraternity houses every Friday . eventng. Sometime during the spring term a dance will probably be given by the club, after which it will discontinue regular meetings until the fall of '97. l51]e ~omm,eQeemel)t prizes. The following students have tegistered for the co1nn1encen1ent prizes: Alexander extempo- raneous---Furbeck, '97, Brown, '97, G. M. Schofield, '97, D. L. Wood, '97, Hotaling, '97, Sheehan, '98, Nelson, '98, Putnam, '98, Swann, ''98, Thon1as, '98, Hubbard, 1900. Junior · oratorical-Sheehan, Crichton, Thomas, Swann, Putnam, Nelson, Howe. Sophotnore oratori- cal-Ketchtun, Wright, MacMahon. Allen for . Seniors- Blodgett, Brown, Canfield, Fuller, Cumtnings, Furbeck, Glazier, Hotaling, John- ton, Multer, Pearse, Pershing, G. M. Schofield, Slocum, \Vinn, D. L. Wood, Wyckoff. Ing- ham for Seniors-Winn, Slocum, Canfield, Cummings, Multer, Johnston, Fuller, Furbeck, Glazier, Hotaling, Pearse, Pershing, D. L. Wood, G. M. Schofield, Blodgett. Harroun for Seniors-Blodgett, Brown, Fuller, Furbeck, Glazier, Hotaling, Johnston, Multer, Morris, Pearse, Pershing, Slocum, G. :rYI. Schofield, D. L. Wood. Clark for Juniors-Hammer, Nel- son, Putnam, Sheehan, Swann. ?5t}e Citerary Soeieties. The Adelphics debated the following question last Friday afternoon : '' A wise policy for the United States precludes territorial acquisition beyond our present frontiers.\ ~wann, '98, and Cullen, '98, defended the affinnative, and Ho- taling, '97, and Birch, '97, debated for the negative. The Philomatheans also held a meeting Fri- . day afternoon and debated that ''A wise policy fot the United States precludes the acquisition of Cuba.\ Pershing, '97, and Hover, '97, spoke for the question, and Wood, '97, and Wright, '99, against it.

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~asp~r Wl]-itQ~y'·s f\rU~l~ ~~~ardiQ~ t~~ fl~w Yor~ IQt~r-\oUeQiat~ ~tl]l~ti\ UQiOQ. Strange as it may seem, it is none the less a fact that the athletic atmosphere enveloping the majority of the colleges in the northern part of N e:w York State has always been saturated with professionalism. These institutions have shown a.s little regard for the ethics of amateur sport as ever I found displayed in the most distant and most benighted Western or Southern localities. And the plea of ignorance is not tenable in New York, where precep,t and example may be had every day in the week, and certainly not in the northern part of the State, w he1·e Cornell has been a zealous missionary of wholesome sport for several years. Yet some ofthemostnoisomescan- dals· have developed in that very section. It is, indeed, extraordinary that these colleges, &ur- rounded as they are by earnest workers in the cause of pure sport, should have steadfastly pur- sued their unhealthy way! But these institutions were not without their missionaries, a few of whom were unremittingly devoted to reformation, and late last autumn their efforts were rewarded by a meeting at Utica for the purpose of revising rules and organizing a new and clarified State league. * * * * * * * * This. meeting was the result of a faculty confer- ence of the same college, held a month previously at Syracuse, when a plan for a new and healthier league had been outlined. .A.t the first meeting 1·esolutions had been adopted defining the scholar- ship requirements for athletic-team candidates, and were subsequently accepted by all.save Syra- cuse, which took exception to the fifteen hours of recitations each week demanded of the athlete. At the Utica meeting this rule was modified, the number of hours being reduced to twelve. Tbe ge:neral sentiment of this meeting was for a new league and a thoroughly revised and im- proved. set of rules, but I record with regret, though not with surprise, that Rochester, and to a less extent Syracuse, voted against nearly every reform proposed. Through the good work of Prcofessor Squires of Hamilton. and Professor Pat- terson of Union, and others, however, the confer- ence finally decided that a new league should be form.ed, to be governed by an Advisory Board, in which each college shall be represented by a mem- be:r of the faculty, an alumnus, and e.n under- graduate. The offieers of this board will be· also the officers of tl1e league, and the eon1plete con- trol of the a1fairs of the league, artangements of schedules, management of annual inter-collegiate athletic events, appointment of officers, control of the league's. finances, wUl be in bands of the board. * * * * * * * These rules have been ratified by Hamilton, Colgate, and Union; it is likely that Hobart will also subscribe to them. What may be e:x;pected of Rochester no man knoweth, but if .she contin- ues in the course hithe:rto pu~sued she will decline to join the league,-and be ostracised by all the other Nortnern New York colleges that believe in wholesome athletics. Syracuse will probably join Rochester in opposition to healthful college sport. It is a r6le to ·which both are accustomed. Roches- ter has given utterance to no specific objections to the new rules, and oppose them on tl1e general principle of indifference to clean sport. Syrac:use, however, refuses to join the league unless the Advisory Board changes the \ twelve hours\ of the last clause of Rule 1 to '' tf\n hours,\ and the \two-term conditions'' of Rule 2 to \conditions in ten hours of work.\ As neithe1· of the changes will be made, Syracuse will remain an outcast in- Northern New York inter-collegiate athletics. -x- * * * * * * * * Despite the opposition of Rochester and Syra- cuse, the new league will be fo1·n1ed, and we are promised a rarefied atmosphere in the athletics of the small New York colleges, The rules are not so strict as the situation demanded, but. they are such an improvement as to be a co1nforting assur- ance of better ones to con1e, and they proclairn four distinct gains for healthful athletics.-Oaspa~·r Whitney in J-Ia1y;ers Weekly. Mauger, ex-'98., has gone into the clothing business. He is located at 92 I State sh·e·et in thii city. The Junior debates have been abandoned on account of their conflicting with afternoon recitations. There was quite a representation of Union College boys in Albany last Friday evening to attend the assembly of Miss Annesley's dancing class in the study hall of the Fetnale Academy. Prof. Sidney G. Ashmore has been having a number of lantern slides made from pictures secured by hi nl while abroad last yea:r. With these he will illustrat¢ his lectures on, \ The Greeks and Rotnans.\

TIIE CONCORDIENSIS. p,resideQt ~aymoQd f1eplies,. President A. V. V. Raymond was seen at his ~t]aQGellor Day of 8yra el.lse lJ Qiversity , ~a5ts fiefleetioQS l.lpoQ flt~leties In an interview published in the Syracuse Post Chancellor Day of the Syracuse University . residence on College Hill yesterday by a Daily Gazette reporter and, when shovvn the article in which Chancellor Day of Syracuse University criticized by imputation the position of Union in recent intercollegiate affairs, he said: says: '' Chancellor Day is dodging the present ''The charge of professionalisn 1 at Syracuse situation by going into the past and seeking to University is preposterous. It is a foul slander arouse prejudice by what happened years ago. and the man who tnakes it is a dupe of our The vital question is what shall we do now? rivals or reckless of all fact and justice. In As far as Union is concerned no reflection has either event he has given untnistakable proof of been cast upon any other institution. On the his utter unfitness for calm and judicial (lis- other hand, she is engaged in an honest effort to cussion of such tnatters. Already this tnan has come into closer relations with the colleges of discredited himself in sotne of our best colleges the state on the basis of the generally recognized and wears a cognotnen far fron 1 complimentary· principles to govern all athletic contests. The We can afford to leave hhn to those vvho have only real question at issue is that of the basis known him longer and have given hitn a prob- upon which the new league shall be founded. ablv just rating. It is a rating such as to relieve Upon this Union is prepared to take a strong us from any anxiety because of the uncompli- stand and to join with other colleges of like con- mentary words he has written about us. victions and ptlrposes. There can be no league \But it is a strange irony that represents those . at all satisfactory that is not based upon similar colleges whose dark deeds forced them out of \ views of athletic interests,. and there should be the old league as the champions of pure athletics 110 difficulty in bringing ·colleges together that in their attempt to break down the league in are animated with the same purposes and aims. which they made their unsavory reputations and If Syracuse does not like the proposed rules, it fonn a new one to cover their past records. ~ o is her privilege to remain out of the league. one blan1es them for wanting to escape then But she ought not to seek to escape the reflection history, but it is asking too tnuch to de111and thus cast upon her by attempting to cast re- that they be clothed in white linen and 111ade flections upon other institutions because of the the high priests of athletic reforn1. That only positions she believes they held in the past. As excites derision. to the reputation of Casper Whitney, without \Does Mr. Whitney know that one of those attempting to justify his course in every par- colleges which he installs in the holy of holies ticular, it is still time that he is 1·ecognized as of pure athletics was suspended fron1 an associ a- the foremost champion of pure athletics in our tion within a year for crooked business and is so colleges. He h~s done tnore perhaps than any notorious that neighboring colleges of high repute other man to correct the evils which have have refused to contest with her athletes? Does brought college athletics into disrepute in tnany he kno,w that another was refused points made circles.\ at a contest of college men by the trainer of her athletes and withdrew from the old league in resentment, posing as injured innocence? These and other incidents are written deeply on the history of colleges that this judge, who deter- mining causes without facts, sets up as exan1.ples and chatnpions of pure a~1letics.\ Little, '97, and Haviland, '98, spent Sunday · Jan. 3 I, at the latter's home in Glens Falls. Henry Glen, '93, librarian of the Public Library, is acting as superintendent of the Union Classical Institute during the absence of Prof. Halsey.

THE OONOORD!ENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUEUSHEO EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. B.Y THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. JJO.ARD O.JJ EDITORS: F. PACKARD PA.LMER. '97, Editor-in-Chief. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business ManaO'er. HIRAM C. TODD, '97, L[terary Ed.itor. CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Asst. Bus. }fanager. CARL I-IAMl\IER. '98. ) WILLIAM D. REED, '98, '- Assistant Editors .. F. P. SHEEHA.i.~, '98, ) LEROY T. ERA~F<:R~. '99, I . F. Roy CHA:M:PIO~, 99. C Reportonal Staff. GEORGE 0. RO\VELL, '99, } GEORGE I-I. FISH, '99, - Albany Medical College. TERMS: c:oNCORDIENSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Advance. Single Copies, 10 Cents. PA!tTIIENON, - $1.00 per Year in Advance. Eoth Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance. Address all connaunications to ~PHE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Su.bscribers are requested to make checks pay- able to Ed ward E. Draper, Business 1\fanager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WE WISH to call particular attention to the ex- tracts printed under college notes, concerning La:fayette's football team. The closing paragraph should be read 'vith the utmost care by Union college students; therein lies the secret of her suc- cess. WE REPRINT in this nu1nber of THE CoNCOR- DIENSIS Casper Whitney's article rega1·ding the action of the New York Intercollegiate Athletic Union which recently appeared in Harper's Weekly, an article written by Chancellor Day which first appeared in the Syracuse Post, also a reply to Chancellor Day by President Ray- mond. Editorial comment upon these articles is unnecessary. The tl·ue condition of athletic affairs in this state is manifest from the articles themselves. There is not the slightest doubt as to ·where Union stands. WE NOTICED in one of the exchanges which came to us this week, an interesting article on college gymnasium work. In connection with the article were tabulated the measurements of the ten strongest men in the college, also a corres- ponding table showing the measurernents of e~ch one of the ten upon first entering the gymnasium. By cornparing the two tables, rem:arkable differ~ ences were shown. In the fb;st table the measure- Ulents of t.he entire ten were such as to make the line connecting each individual n1easurernent tend towards the horizontal. Carefully prepared tables like those uwntioned above show the value of gymnas,tic training ·while in college. V\Te have often seen simHiar tabulated forms made out here during the fall terrn after the fresh- nlen were 1ueasured. \\iVe have never seen any tables however, which by con1parison would show the results obtained by properly directed g:rm. nastic exercise. If tllere ure any students in ~ol­ lege ·who possess such records -we would be glad to publish thexn in THE 00NCORDIENSIS as they would prove interesting n1atter to our readers and would show the value of our course in physical culture. AN EDI'l'OltiAL in a recent nn1nber of the l'Vil~ lianus lVeekly touches upQn a subject which n1ight well be considered in respect to Union. I..~ehigh University is also actively engaged in work along the same line though the nwthod of proceedure is somewhatdjfierent. It is purely a matter of advertisement with both and from the standpoint of effectiveness depends entirely upon the energy with which either scheme is prosecuted. The 'f;Villia1ns Weekly suggests that all students wl1o have prepared for entrance into college in high schools or acaden1ies, in1prove every oppol·- tunity which offers of furnishing their preparatory school papers or magazines -with readable articles conceTning their college life and customs and also accounts of foot ball and base ball games. The object of course is to keep their college in touch with the best preparatory schools of the country. Lehigh University has adopted another plan, but with the same object in view. A press bu- reau has been established which furnishes to every new spa per within a more or less extended area reprint matter concerning the university. It is clearly apparent that higher institutions of learning are anxious to enlarge their constituency and particularly to attract students to them who have had the advantages of the best high school training. We are led to ask: '\Vhat is Union doing to further her influence an1ong prospective collegiate students ? Is there any well directed effort being exerted to attract to Union a part of that large body of young humanity which is yearly knock- ing at the doors of our colleges and universities ?

THE (J'ONCORDIENSIS. •• ~ -~T) \ \ \ ' : /. We address these questions to all who at'~ in,ter- €sted in the future welfare of this colleg·e. .. ···,Borne well defined plan m·ay at present be in···~etive -operation, but we are a\vare of none. .A.re 'v.e not relying· in a great part upon our past histOtY, for future welfare while other colleges are appi•()pri- ;ating to thentselves that which ought to be o-~1rs? We are well a ware that much has been done to i~prove the internal affairs. of Union in the last few years; u1uch more than seemed possible in so short a space of ti:t11e. But there are other fieid~~ of operation which with a 'little well directed till- age Inay prove to be very fruitful. The writer well re1nernbers the influences which directed his attention to the college world. Vari- ous college papers and annuals came into his pos- session, some thi·ough the nwdium of the pre- paratory school which he was then attending. He never saw a Union publication and were it not for the influence of one of Union's loyal sons he would have sought a collegiate education else- where. Union could find no more efficient means · -of attracting to her the better element 'vhich is yearly seeking a collegiate education than to place within easy access of every high school student, the undergraduate publications which emanate from this institution. THE CONCORDI~~NSIS would ~dvertise, THE PARTHENON would intetest and :I.~HE GARNET would please. The Union college catalogue upon which is necessarily expended the greatest sum devoted to advertising is hardly cal- \culated to induce in the ave1·ag.e high school student pleasant dreams of college life. It may interest the pa1·ents but they as a matter of fact have the least to say about when it cornes a choice among colleges. Obituary. ,..rho1nas I-Ia,vley Canfield, '41, died on his farm at Lake Park, Minn., January 20. He was born in Arlington, Vt., March 29, 1822, andre- ceived his education at Burr and Burton Sen1i- nary, Manchester, Vt.; at the 1\roy Episcopal Institute and at Union College. He engaged in tnercantile business near Burlington, Vt., which ,city has been his horne since r877. He later turned his attention to railroad building and was one of the constructors of the Rutland, Rutland and \V ash ington and of the Ogdens- burg railroads. He was early interested in water transportation ft•otn the west. 1\he first cargo of flour ever shipped from Lake Erie to Lake Champlain, via the W elland ·Canal and the St. Lawrence River, was shipped by him, and the first line of propellers between Detroit and Ogdensburg was established by him . .. He was one of the projectors of the Canghna- waga Ship Canal and never lost his interest and faith in the final accomplishment of that enter- prise. The crowning distinction of his business career was his part in the building of the Northern Pacific Railroad. He was a leading spirit in that enterprise, a member of the syn- dicate for the construction of the road and one of the directors until 1873, having devoted twenty years of his life to the project. During the civil war he was assistant nlana- ger, under Col. 1'. H. Scott, of the railroad lines fro1n the north and east. During the last twenty years he has devoted his attention princi- pally to his .3000 acre wheat fann. where he died. He ''ras 1nuch interested in the new movement for a deep water way frorn the Great Lakes and was a protnoter of the association. Mr. Canfield was an ardent Episcopalian and for twenty-eight years secretary of the. Diocese of Vern1ont. His death \vas such as he would have wished, except fo1· his absence fro.m his family. He is survived by a widow, three daughters and a son. The Unive1·sity of Chicago offers 1 ,o86 courses for this year. Harvard has adopted a new s ystetn with reference to the distribution of scholarships. Hereafter, they are not to be given to needy students as such, but rather as honors to the best in en in the several classes, whether rich or poor. -The Adelbert. The city of Pekin contains what is undoubt- edly the oldest university in the world. It is called the \School of the Sons of the Etnpire.\ The antiquity of the college is very great, and a granite register consisting of stone columns, 320 in nu1nber, contains the names of 6o,ooo graduates of the highest degrees.-Ex. TRACK ATHLETICS AT PRINCETON. The call for candidates for the Mott Haven track teatn at Princeton was ansvvered by about sixty men. Indoor training has started, the prospects for a running team being especially bright. · . ·· · The most likely candidates for the different events are : Lane and Jarvis for the sprints ; Col felt and Jones for the quarter and 22o-yards dash ; Kilpatrick, Cregan and Palmer for the half, and Wheeler and Jones for the hurdles. Tyler will probably be their representative in the vault, and Carroll and Bottger in the jumps. -. Brown and White.

\ 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. A NEW THEORY BY DR. BRINTON. A new theory as to the mind of the aborigine has just been advanced by Dr. Daniel G. Brin-- ton, professor of American archreology and linguistics, which promises to be received with aston ish tnent in the world of science. It is in brief that all savages are insane. It is a theory over which Pi~ofessor Brinton has studied n1any years, and its advancen1ent represents the most careful judgm,ent of one of America's foren1ost archreologists. -Penn rylvania?t. RICHARD HARDING DoAVIS IN CUBA. Frederick Re1nington, the artist, and Richard Harding Davis, author and nevvspaper \7\Titer, have reached the insurgent army in the island of Cuba, where they go as representatives of The Yournal. Mr. Retnington is making sketches of the life and activity of the patriot army as he finds it, and Mr. Davis, acting as war correspondent, will have a new field of effort for his trenchant and brilliant pen.-· Brown and Whlte. NO CONDITIONED BASE BALL PLAYERS. Professor Fine, the men1ber of the Princeton faculty who has charge of the base ball1natters, has announced to the candidates for the team that no one who has a condition after the Febru- ary exatnination will be allowed to play on the base ball tean1. He added that this sa n1e rule was made last year but that this year it would be carried out to the letter. It is said that this rule, if carried out, will weaken the team con- siderably.- Co,rnell Dally Sun. PROPOSED AFFILIATION. The desirability of a consolidation between Harvard and the Massa~husetts Institute ofTech- nology is being talked of. Should the project be carried out, it would give Harvard about six thousand students, over twice as many as any other A1nerican University. A similar attetnpt at consolidation failed twenty-six years ago after several conferences had been held.- Cornell .Daily Sun. A PICTORIAL HISTORY OF CORNELL'S ATHLETICS FOR THE GYMNASIUM. Dr. Hitchcock is at work on a pictorial history of Cornell's athletics from the beginning to the present time. The pictures will be arranged chronologically and placed on the walls of the gymnasium. Pictures of all the crews that have ever rowed for Cornell have been secured, so that this branch -of the history is now complete · to date. This was brought about by the good fortune of Dr. Hitchcock in being able to pur- chase seventy negatives of the .early athletes, crews, glee clubs, etc. Thes.e were the p1·operty of Mr. Jefferson Beardsley, a photographer who- flourished in Ithaca between 187o and 188o. I-Iowever, the list of photographs of the track and other athletic tean1s is by no m.eans con\1 ... plete. Since the titn e of Mr. Beardsley, the work of photographing the teatns and crews has not been confined to any one photographer and the consequent separation of the negatives makes the collecting of the pictures very difficult. Dr. Hitchcock hopes with the co-operation of alt:u.nni and students to 1nake the history complete in every detail.- Cornell .Dally Sun. LAFAYETTE COLLEGE FOOT BALI .... Jl,ESUME FOR SEASON OF 1896. In the retrospection of the triurnphant foot ball season of '96, no regrets arise to dim its 1 ustre. To a careless or prejudiced observer the victories rna y be attributed to accident, rather tl1an to superior skill, but the succession of con- quests against the strongest teams, would prove the falsity of such a conclusion. In the words of Prof. Nlarch, Jr., we had the '~.pluckiest tea1n that ever played a game of foot ball.\ Think of it; not one defeat in twelve games ! Scored on but twice ! two hundred and forty points to our opponents' ten ! What more could be desired ? Surely Lafayette's cup of joy is full ; the zenith of her fame is reached. * * * * * * * The story of the game is well known. Ho\v at the end of the first half, the score stood 4 to o in favor of Pennsylvania. In the second when the ball was hovering threatening! y near the University's goal suddenly Barclay was- seen to dart out from the crowd of players, eluding Dickson and M1nds, and place the ball fairly behind the goal posts. But the trying 1no1nent had con1e only when he was to kick the goal. Calmly directing the position of the ball, he sent it flying between the posts, n1aking the score 6 to 4· Surely our worthy Professor's. sentilnent '' God Bless Him\ will receive a hearty ''Amen'' from every Lafayette man . * * * * * * * o to o ! How 1nuch that signifies ! Can we ever forget it? Can the Tigers? * * * * * * * The scrub teatn worked hard and faithfully all season, for which they deserve great commendaa tion. Handicapped by the lack of necessary outfits, receiving little of the glory, they showed a loyal spirit- in thus doing the greatest work on the part of the students in pushing the 'Varsity on to victory. May all praise be given them.- The Lafayette.

THE dONCORDIENSlS. French, '99, spent the httter part of last week at his home in Binghamton. J uni-ot essays are due Fel). I z. Kline, 1900, is ill at his home in An1sterda.rn. Bray, '99, is again out, after a week's sick- Rev. David Sprague, '79'' of Amher~t, Ma&s-., ! is visiting his parents in this city. ness. Potter, 1900, spent Sunday at his hon1l'e in Glenville. Sawyer, '99, spent Sunday last at his hon1:e in Sandy Hill. Sherwood, '99, is quite seriously ill with . pneumor11a. Merriman, '98, and Utter, '98, are ill at their homes in Albany. Nathan Beckwith, '94, spent Sunday, Jan. 31, with college friends. Sawyer, '99, spent Saturday and Sunday at his home in Sandv Hill. Hall, '99, is si~k with typhoid fever at his hotnc in Lockport, N. Y.,... VanVlack, 1900, spent Saturday and Sunday as a guest of Loucks, I 9oo, at his hotne in Albany. and other cut flowers constantly on hand. . • . • (opp. P. 0.) e·, . GRUPE, The Florist, 125 ·w .A.IJL STREET., UNDER EDISON HOTEL. U~IGA, N.Y. T .HE FISK TEACHERS' ACENCIES, 4. Ashburton Place, Boston; 70 Fifth .Avenue, N. Y .; 3.i...l) WabaAh Avenue Chicago; 25 King Street, West, Toronto; 124:~ 'rwelfth Street, 'Washin~t<?n, D •. C.; 525 ~tims~n Blo~k, ~os A.ngeies · 4:14 Century Burldmg, lfmneapohs, Mmn.; 101 Ke1th & Perry Building, Kansas City, ]'Io.; 728 Cooper Building, Den- ver, Col. Agency Manual Free. 0 F & C EVERETT • ISK 0. 2.111\r!'YTE 1\ DE1lE]'{J?Eel(, o - - Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}l.L a11d W®BB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, BOO, 308and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Str~~ow 209 and211 Dock St •• and Fertilizers, Scheneet-adt; N. Y. John L. Sherwood, '99, is seriously ill with pneun1onia at the Psi Upsilon house. Pershing, '97, preached in the Reformed church at Glenville, Sunday, Ja-n. 24. John ·C. Merchant, '98, has recovered from his recent illness .and i~ at college again. W. J. Kline, ;73, and Miss- KHne registered at St. Jatnes Hotel, Jacksonville, Fla., Jau .. Z5· Tl1e classical division of the Sophomores have· :finished the '\ Persre \ and have begun the '' Autigone.\ Prof. Charles C. Brown, fortnerly professor of Civil Engineering, and at present of Indiana- polis, Ind., was the guest of P1~of. Stoller la.st week. Rev. Phillip H. Cole, Union '88, lectured at the Second Reformed cl1urch, Thursday, Jan. 28, on '' Human Contracts \ for the benefit of theY. M. C. A. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING C()., . • • THE .LE.A.DIN G • • . ONE. PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS. HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNlSH~RS. 315 State Street, Schenectady; N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. .A. G. H:QBRICK. When in want of Sandwiches bv the dozen or .. hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Hartl, Pies, Coffee and Milk. · · C. E. BOT.HAM, 214 CLINTON S'fR E E'T.

iO <eivil §.erviee ExamiQatioQs. An open competitive examination will be : held in Albany, Feb. 13, for the position of , senior examiner in English in the Regents de- partment. The salary is $900 per annutn, increasing in length of service. Applicants must be graduates of high schools · or have an equivalent education according to standard of deparhnent. The· examinations V\ 7 ill relate whoHy to the duties of the position and will be limited to six hours. There will also be an open competitive exam- ination on Feb. 10 and I I for the position of engineering draughtsman. The salary is about $4 per day. 1\'he examination will be a practical one re- lating to the duties of the position, and will be limited to two days of eight hours each. Applicants for both examinations must be residents of the state of New York, and at least 21 years of age. Applications must be on file five days prior to the date of the examinations. For application blanks address the Secretary of the New York State Civil Service Com- mission, Albany, N. Y. MAKERS TO UNION UNIVERSITY. 472 and 474 -Broadway, Albany, N. Y. Late Styles Wear Resisters.-=::==::::\ $1.00, $2.00 AND $3.00. Sole agents for the HARAN and BURT & P.ACK- A.RD Shoes. 146 State St. P A. TTON & HALL. H 0 RS'f}'lAN N'S ~~-===--· Th~ large~t and finest 6 6 17 n· II RM Jl C:T .t. 6 line of Cigars and . r . ' n ft . . . smokers' sup- · · pliesinthe 129 Wall St., opp. P.O. city. BON BONS AND CHOGOLA1\E8. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE No. lo North Pearl St., AL:BANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithei's. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIAN OS. ..._......__THOMAS HAS THE BEST. -----THE----- illiDIN6 ® l2.5INTEB, ([Qas. l3urrows, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Pr-inting, Ruling, Binding, &c. L.A. YOUNG. 0 GEORGES, FOX - ..... L.A. YOUNG & CO. HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN THE MUSICAL LINE. PIANOS TO RENT. The Oldest House in the State. The Largest Dealers in the City. Sole Agents for WASHBURN'S. goods, and Headquarters for everything in the line of music. ta54: STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

·_...._.....ADVERTISEMENTS.- 11 DASf BALLI 'Supplies, Spa1ding League B·all, Mits, Masks, etc. 1\[an.a.gers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf., Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Com:plete Catalogu~ of spring and Summer Sports free. '• The Name the Guarantee.\ A :G ·s·PA·L··-D-I .. N·G &. 8:8.:08. NewYork,,Chicago., • • . · . · . · · · · •' Ph1la. -·-· 311 State, Co'J•. JValZ St~J>eet. GENTLEMEN:- You. are all invited to see our stock of Fall and Winter goods before buying .. OUR FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR ANY FOOT-WARE SOLD ELSE-WHERE. Our stock is complete, and we handle nothing but First- Class-Made Shoes- P:r1ce from $2.00 up. The latest style Win- ter Russet we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $3.48, can't be beat. QU.IRl'S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. :New Yo:rk University Law School. Confers LL. B., also (for graduate courseH) LL. 1\1. .. Day and Evening Sessions. 'l'uition :Fee, $100. No Incidental :Fee. Sixty-second year begins October 1st, 1896. For catalogue, address REGISTRAR University. Wa::;hington Square, New York City. fL C. AUS'TI N ENG.RAviNC3 eO., , •• 80 & 82 State St .. , Alba.Jiy, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Et<.:hi11g a.ucll'husoehrome. Send Jfor F.Jstimate:-s. College work a Spedalty. ======================================~- CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FHENCH. BNIBN eoLLEeE B00K EXe}1}lNSE . ..J All College Texts, Draughting lnstru- ~~ ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils J and all necessary college supplies. ROBINSON'S .............................................................................................. .. ~·····--·•\!·····~·····--··· ........... ~ ................. , ................... . ... ... 120 Wall St-reet, Oppos,ite the Depot. OYSTERS A SPECIALTY, :B 1 Meals for $3.00. ~St1tdents' PatTonage Solicited JOHN T. JOHNSON, :Fashionable and Popular Tailor. No. 35 Maiden Laue, Albany, N. \.\. SU.ITS FROM $18.00 UP. PANTS $4 .. 00 AND UPWARD. L. T. CLU'l\\'E,--=~ HATTER AND FURRIER. Also, T'¥\Ull1.1;.s Bays, ;.{j'u,i,t Oa.fle.fl, G-loves, Thnln•eUt.ltJ, Cane.o;, .Etc. 227 STA'fE 81'RE E'T'. )tlEBOBA.NT 1'-AJ.LOB

t2 .............__. ADVERTISEMENTS.---· .....- . \\ . Wanters of Full 'Dress 'Suits ! · Here are suits to rent and suits to sell; suits that wilt flit any norn1al figure. And all the olil1er things needed to clothe n1an in the top notch of style- · Patent Leathe1's, Silk Hats, Full Dress Sl'liTts, Shields and Neckwear- .. Every stitch of clothing you need is getable here for less rnoney than you'll find it any wltere else. SAUL, (Jlothie'r of Man, Wont-an and Child,, uH~ad to Foot,'' fif-63 M. Pearl St., ALBANY, It. Y. 5.14 FULTON ST I' TROY' N. y. G3 : Largest M:anu·facturers· in lmertca .. I I I t I I of EnginnerS' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruments, Paper, Tracing Cloth, Pre.pared Blue Print Paper, Colors and Brushes, Pens, Pen- cils, Inks, Rubber, T Squares, Drawing Boards, Triangles, Scales, Stencil A.lpha- bets, Poc.ket Com.passes, ·magnifiers, Scientific Books, Etc., Etc. ~A. BRO\!VN & SON,•~ FURNITURE AND BEDDING ~ ALL~Nns ~ ~OR ~ STUDENTS ~ USE. TI-IE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. P.;F. McBR'EEN 218 Wi~lliam St.,. New York RJ T. MOIR, ~~====­ soaKs, FINE 81'A'T'IONERY, PIG'T'URE FRAM~NG, E-re. AL:._AAV:v PRINTER STEAMSHIP AGJiJNCY ••..• 8t'l3 State St., Scheneotady, N. Y. - <§HE ... H OT E L KEN M 0 R E, --===-==:::::\ ::·.·.:::·:.:·:.:·.:·.·.:·::.:::::·:::::;:;.::::.·.·:.·:.:·.:· .. ::·;::.·:.:·:.' .. ::·.·:.::;:::::::::::::: €DISON I)OTilEL, .. LEADING HoTEL .. Schenectady, N. Y. of ALl3ANY, N.Y. CeJttrnlly tooaletl~ and the L·argest Strictly First-Class. and Best !Appoi~·ted ·Hotelln lhe city. Headquarte1'!i for Commerclal Travellers and Tourlsts. GHA8. ,BRO'W N, PROPRIETOR. HEAD~UARTERS FOR UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL &. SON, Props.

.. . . . ,f,i l ,,~ t:' \ ·, . t hy A . 'fl .......... -.. .~ ,' < •• ~--· •• • } oncordiensis. VoL. XX. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FEBRUARY 12, 1897. No. 18. ' . _ .. ' . • I ·I I I

2 ----· ADVERTISEMENTS.- UNION COLLEGE ANDlU!lW V, V. BAY!.:tOND, :0. :0~, X.L, D., President. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.---The usual Classical Course, including French and German. .After ~opho­ more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot. Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B,__;Th.is differs from the .A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greet and tho substitutio:n therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. · · · 4. General Cou1•se Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering edue•tion, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a k:Qowledge of both French and Germa.n, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- Tb.is differs from Course 4 in substitutiJJ,g special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. Tbis COllrSe is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. G1•aduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of c. E.- .A course of one year offered to graduates of Cou.rse 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in .Analytieal Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogue! or for speeial information address BENJ .A.MIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Th1·ee years strictly graded eourse. In- struetiona by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advanta.ges excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, 5100 ; perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, lL D., Reiistrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department is located at .Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly de:roted to its use. The oeurse is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation Fee, $10 ; Tuition fee, ;100. For catalog'(les or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. .ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, .Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGt OF PHARMACY. . Exercil!les held in Albany :Medical Colle\e. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- tion address DE BA.UN VAN .AKEN, Ph. G., Seeretary, ~ Hamilto11 St. -ALBANY~ • • • Art * . . U11ion . (Formerly S.terry's Studio,) 55 NORTH PER R L ST., I I ALBANY, N.Y. ·II Highest Grade of Photography. -ANO- CHQCQLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. Jihe line6t ligar6 and the Rure6t of JJrug6, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. Do You Know ·············~············································································· .. ················ ............................................................................................................................ That a good way to secure a position as teacher is to register in the . . • • Albany Teachers' Agency ? ................................................................................................................................................................ ........................................................................................................................................................ ~ .... If not, send for circulars and learn what it can do for you . HARLAN P. FREN8H, 24 State Street. ALBANY, N.Y. \\;;

The Con_cordiensis VoL. XX. UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY 12, 1897. The third and most successful concert of the season was given by the college musical clubs in Albany, Thursday Evening, Feb. 4· The popularity of Union in Albany was shown by the large and enthusiastic audience that assembled at Jermain Hall. Every seat was occupied. The stars and stripes and Union's flags and colors were used for the decorations, and they made a pleasing background for the clubs as they for1ned upon the stage. A beauti- ful floral piece, bearing the word \hikah was placed on the piano in the center of the stage as the clubs appeared, and the large audience joined in a general and cordial welcome to Union. From the opening number on the programme to the close everv selection was enthusiastically \ encored. The singing of the Glee club de- serves special commendation, as every selection pleased the audience and showed the effect of careful training and excellent direction. The Sophomore quartette caused a great deal of laughter with their humorous song '' Dried Apple Pies,\ and were obliged to respond to several encores. The Banjo and Mandolin clubs also did excellent work and were fully appreciated by the large audience. · ''Wah Sid,\ the Chinese march, was given at its best, and was one of the tnarty selections that was encored. Mr. Cook, rgoo, showed his genius as. a humorist and fully entertained the audience with his irresistibly funny recitations. He was re- called several times and later, by special request, he gave \Casey in Court.\ The Union songs and the closing college cheer delighted the many alumni, undergradu- ates and friends present, and were a fitting close to a most successful concert. ., The clubs were royally entertained during their brief visit in Albany. In the afternoon a tea was given by Mrs. William P. Rudd. Mr. Rudd, '73, is the president of the college alumni association of northern New York, and did much toward furthering the success of the con- cert .. The hostess was aided in receiving at the tea by Mrs. A. V. V. Raymond, Mrs. Albert Vander Veer, Mrs. Albert V. Benson,. Miss Leake, Miss Florence Juliette Jones, Miss Flora Brady, Miss Kathryn Clinton Baldwin and Miss Elizabeth Penn Leonard. Miss Mabel Whitney poured chocolate and Miss Alice Martin pre- sided at the coffee urn. The garnet of Union was predominent in the tastily arranged decorations, and the rich red roses gave a greater effect to the scene. The tea table was loaded with the caterer's art, all in the college color. The Glee club gave several selections during the afternoon which added to the enjoyment of those present. An1ong the guests were noticed Mn;. Luther Tucker, Miss Tucker, Gen. A1nasa J. Parker, Mr. and Mrs. Amasa J. Parker, Jr., Miss Anna Parker, Prof. and Mrs. Warren, Miss Lucy Plympton, Lieut.-Gov. and Mrs. Woodruff~ Mr. and M'rs. John V. L. Pruyn, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Seymour Pearse, Miss Batters hall, Miss Hilliard, Miss Virginia Murphey, Miss Morton, Miss Taylor, Mr. Williatn Vischer, Miss Elsie Norton, Miss Nina vVard, Miss Wales, Miss Learned, Miss Lansing, Mrs. William Barnes, Jr., Miss Anderson, Mrs. J. Warner Bott, Miss Margaret Liscomb, Mr. and Mrs. Clark Terry Durant, Mr. and Mrs. Horace G. Young, Miss Helen Martin, Miss Julia Walsh, Miss Pauline Townsend, Miss Pruyn, Mr. and Mrs. J. Milne, Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Cameron, Mr. and Mrs. Cot 4 nelius E. Franklin, Mr. Douw H. Fonda, Jr., Mr. Robert Russell, Mr. and Mrs. Chauncey

4 TBE CONCORDlENSIS. :. Pratt Williams, Mr. and Mrs .. John .De Witt Peltz, Mi:ss Murphy, Miss Oliver and Miss Annie Ghio. The concert over, the members of the clubs and many Union alutnni and undergraduates re- paired to the Albany club where they were royally entertained. The greatest credit is due to Mr. Williatn P. Rudd, '73, Cornelius E. Franklin, '83, and F. W. Cameron, '81, for their effi.cient labors in furthering the success of the concert, and to the respective leaders, the managen1ent, and the many othet· alumni and undergraduates who faithfully worked for it. To quote the Albany Argus, ''The perforn1- ance was one of the best ever given in this city by a college glee club, and was listened to throughout with the greatest pleasure, the various numbers being applauded to the echo.\ The Express said, \The glee club is as good as that of any college which has sung here, and it was far above the average.\ The patronesses of the concert were: Mrs. John E. McElroy, Mrs. Albert Vander Veer, Mrs. William P. Rudd, Mrs. Luther M. Tucker, Mrs. Jatnes K. McClure, Mrs. Edward D. Ronan, Mrs. John V. L. Pruyn, Mrs. H. G. Littlefield, Mrs. John Delehanty, Mrs. Frederick Harris, Mrs. Edward McKinney, Mrs. Walter S. McEwan, Mrs. Howard Pemberton, Mrs. Matthew Bender, 1\tirs. William J. Milne, Mrs. Lewis Cass, Miss Lucy A. Plympton, Mrs. Ellen Boyd, Mrs. Willis G. Merriman, Mrs. Charles M. Culver, Mrs. C. E. Franklin, Mrs. Frederick W. Catneron, Mrs. William Loucks, Mrs. Montgornery Mosher, Mrs. John S. Hoy and Mrs. Charles F. Bridge. 51]e pt]i (iamma Delta DaJ]ee. There was a most delightful reception held at the Phi Gamma Delta House, Friday Evening, February 5· Among the ladies present were the Misses Anna G. Cookingham, May Cookingham, Effie F. Watson and Florence Cochrane, of Albany ; Misses Grace Hawks, Leila Gregg, Elizabeth Chambers, Hedwig Durler, Florence Ballard, Anna B. Hubbs, Clara L. Dunning, Fanny Durler, Ruth Reynolds of Schenectady, and Miss C. Mae De Graff of Boston, Mass. FouQders' UJee~. It is the intention of the faculty to fittingly comrnemorate each year the granti11g of the original charter to Union College. Founders' week is ever to be kept in the memory of the students of Old Union by holding all the social and literary events of the winter term at that time. This year Charter day falls on Thursday, February 18. The Allison--Foote prize debate will be held on the evening of Charter day in the First Presbyterian Church. The subject for debate is, \A wise policy for the United States precludes territorial acquisition.\ The two literary societies will contest for the prize of $5o which will be awarded to the society presenting as a whole the stronge&t argument. There is also an individual prize of $5o for the best single speech by any debator, regardless of his society relations. The Adelphic society has choosen the affirm- ative side of the question and will be repre- sented by Francis E. Cullen, '98, Walter M. Swann, '98, and Ira Hotaling, '97· The following will debate upon the negative for the Philomathean society: William D. Reed, '98, George A. Holcon1be, '98, and H. H. Brown, '97· On Friday afternoon of Founders' week Rev. Henry Van Dyke, D. D., of New York, will lecture upon \Robert Louis Stevenson.\ Dr. Van Dyke is one of the leading literary men of the day. He is a careful student of letters and literary life, and a most popular lecturer. The week will be closed with the ever wel- come social function, the Sophon1ore soiree. This dance will be held in the Van Curler~ Friday evening, Feb. 19, and will equal all of Union's past brilliant records in the social world. Prof. Ashmore is lecturing to the Seniors and Juniors on the Monuments of Athens and Rome. He is at present engaged in descdbing the Acropolis and its ruins. The lectures are illustrated by photographs, obtained last winter in Greece and Italy. }; tuni I . qiu hav bei r doc C01 an . U11 gy Tl . lS Q 'c J E 9 u \i t . (

'THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. 5 F tgletie ffotes. A fencing club is being fonned. rfhe oppor- tunity to join it is extended to all. Dr. Linhart's classes in boxing are becoming qilite proficient in the art. A nun1ber of classes have been forn1ed and quite an active interest is being tnanifested by a large number of students. The Freshmen are considering holding an in- door athletic meet with the U. C. I. Such a contest, it is believed, would he a great success and would bring out the new tnaterial for the mid-winter meet. Base ball practice is held regularly in the gytnnasiutn in the early part of the afternoon. The latter part of the afternoon the gymnasium is occupied by the candidates for the track team. Q}.1ite a number are to be seen there every day. A meeting of those interested in boxing was held in Prof. Hale's rootn last Friday P. M. and the following officers were elected : President, W. C. Yates, '98; vice-president, R. S. Hoxie, '98; secretary, S. C. Medbury, '99; treasurer, E. W. Strong, '99; steward, N. Walbridge, 1900; executive comrnittee, Vroman, '98, Hoxie, 98, and Davis, 1900. Last year, Union sent a team to compete in the relay races which were held in Philadelphia under the auspices of the University of Pennsyl- vania. ~nother teatn will undoubtedly be sent this year. Those who competed last year were, ·O'Neill, '97, Sands, ex·'98, Somtners, ex-'98, and Cregan, ex-'99· Captain O'Neill is now the only tnan of the four in college. There is an excellent chance for any runner in college to get a position on the team. Arrangen1ents are being made to hold the n1id-winter athletic meet in the Centre St. Opera House, March I 2. Possibly the time n1ay be changed to an earlier date. The li~t of events will be as follows : 25-yds. dash, 440-yds. run, I mile run, 25- yds. hurdle, running high jump, running broad jump, running high kick, putting rz-lb. shot, pole vault, indian club swinging and fencing. About tw·enty men are now working in the gymnasiutn~ but it is hopeful that more, espec- ially from the Sophomore and Freshmen classes will soon be in regular training. It will be a class rneet, and the percentage systen1 arranged by Dr. Linhart, will he used. The executive comtnittee to take charge of the meet will soon he appointed. A great deal of interest has always been centered in our cross ... country runniug. Many other colleges, however, rnake tnore of it than we do. It is an excellent sport and one of the healthiest of exercises. Few tnen can make the track teatn, butalmost anybody can, with a little p1·actice, keep up with the ordinary group of cross-country runners. It is also through this kind of running that some of the best runners in colleges have found out their ability and developed then1selves accordingly. These runs should he- come tnore popular. Union has advantages over many other colleges in the convenience of its location. Situated as it is, on the outskirts of Schenectady, having easy access to the sur- rounding country, it is greatly favored. The lay of the country is also excellent for this sport. Of course this is not the season for cross- country running, but a teatn is now being formed in the Sophotnore class exclusively for this kind of running and this article was thus suggested. All white suits with a garnet '99 will be worn. The object is the promotion of cross-country running and anyone in the class can become a member. If all the classes would follow suit, inter-class cross-country t·aces could be arranged in the spring. 8ubjeats for ~ommeQeemel)t OratiOI)5 aQd Essays. The general subject for the Alexander Extetn- poraneous Debate at Commencement is, ''The Federal Legislature.\ The subjects for the Clark Essays in Literature for Juniors are : L \The Classic Character of the Poetry of Pope.\ 2. \ Macaulay and Matthew Arnold as Modes of Style.\ The subjects for the Ingham Essays for Seniors are: I. '' Emerson as a Man of Letters.\ 2. \Symbolism in the Works of Hawthorne.\ \

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. ·PUllLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD 01~ EDITORS: F. PACKARD PALMER '97, Editor-in-Chief. Enw ARD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business 1\!anager. lliRAM 0. 'l,ODD, '97, Literary Editor. CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Asst. Bus. Thfanag-e1:·. CARL HAMMER, '98, ( WILLI A~ \D. R~Ep. '98, ( Assistant Editors. P. P. SHEEHA~, 98, ) LEROY 'I'. BR-ADFORD '99, } F. RoY CHA~IPION, '99. · ReportorialSta:ff. GEORGE C. Ro·wELL. '99, · GEORGE II. FISH, '99, - Albany Medical College. TER}fS: CONCORDIENSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Advance. Single Copies, 10 Cents. PARTHBNON, $1.00 per Year in Ad\ance. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance. Address all cornmunications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to make checks pay- able to Ed ward E. Draper, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. PRESIDENT SCHUR.MAN, in explaining the stand taken by Cornell regarding the granting of A. ]3 . degree, may have convinced himself and possibly anum ber of Cornell sympathizers, that the Scien- tific, English and Historical courses of study, as pursued in high schools and acaden1ies require an equal amount of study, and are as severe a mental discipline as the regular cla.ssicalcourses. Students however, who have recently graduated from preparatory schools know that the above named courses are not to be compared with the classical courses fro1n any standpoint. AN EDI'l'ORIAL appeared in the last CoNCORDI- ENSISregarding the physical development attained by scientific gyrnnastic -work. Dr. Lin?art states that he has sufficient recent data from which an interesting article could be compiled. The work in his department, however, has been so entirely at the volition of the students in the upper classes during the past, that it has been irupossible to obtain an abundance of data. However, an arti- cle is in process of composition, which Dr. Linhart thinks will clearly show the material ad vantages to be derived by conscientious work in his depart- ment. TH:BJ Harvard Crimson of recent date contains a synopsis of the annual reports of President .Eliot and Dean Briggs. \The declaration of Presi· dent Eliot regarding the rnt;tnagement of the_ath~ letic sports of that institution is so positive in its charaeter as to create considerable surprise throughout the college; world. It hardly see1ns possible that such ulistakes. in the development of Harvard's athletje tean1s could have existed for more than one season .. without being found out and rectifi.~d. President Eliot however is a keen observer and probably has located the trouble which for n1any years has n1ade Harvard a looser in athletic contests. His state1nent is as follows: ''The n1anageinent of the sports at IIarvard has been for son1e yea1~s uninteUigent, and for that rea- son unsuccessful. The fundamental defect has been that coaches of liulited experience 'vho may be eitherunobse1·vant Ol' obtuse. can overide on the spot the advice of the trainer ~tnd physicians. 'I'he retnedies are the subordination o:f the coaches to an expert. in training or to a ntedical adviser, and the general adoption of 1nore reasonable views about all training.\ In regard to the library, Pr0sident Eliot reports as follows: \The acquisitions to the University Library during the past year nurnbered 17,677 volumes. Of late years the proportion of An1erican books bought for the Library has increased in compari- son with the proportions of English and Gernutn books.\ Nothwithstanding Harvard's enorrnous endow- ment, nearly every department appears to be in want. The reference tt> the fall in the rate of in- terest in recent years is applicable to nearly every collegiate institution in the country. \The invested funds of the University now amount to $8,526,813. 67, an increase of $5,120,160.24 in twenty years. The general fall in the rate of interest during the past year has embarrassed Inany departn1ents of the University which de- pend upon the inconte of permanent funds. During the year 1895-96 the an1ount of gifts and bequests to the University was $243,791.05. During the same period at least five American universities, all situated outside of New England, received rnuch larger additions to their endow- ments. If the priruacy of Harvard University among American institutions of education is to be maintained, it rnust not be surpassed by any other in rr1aterial resources. The Corporation could use the incon1e of additional endowment to the amount of $10,000·,000.00forthe satisfaction of none but well-known and urgent wants.\ Dean Briggs discusses the question of dishonesty in written work. Harvard is not the only tnstitu- tion called upon to combat this evil. The double standard of morals as explained below is without doubt responsible for most of this illegitimate practice. Dean Briggs thinks tbat the reason for this state of college morals is found in the double standard, f c t t .-€ l ( j c ·• '

'THE. CONCORDIENSIS. 7 lQter-eolleQiate Oratorieal'si The New York State Inter-collegiate Ora- ·-· .. a shifting- for the convenience of the Inon1enb from the character of a re-sponsible man to the character of an irl·espon:sible boy. \The a;dnlinis- ti~ativ:e officers,\ says he, ''accept without ques- tion a student's words: thev assume that he is a - - gentlen1an and that a gentleman does not lie; if as happens now and then, he is not a gentleman and does lie, they had rather, nPvertheless, be fooi<.)d sometin1es than he suspicious always (and be fooled quite as often). Frankly treated, the stu- dent is usually frank hilnself; our undergraduates are, in general, excellent ·fellows to deal with: yet ·so much is done for them, so many opportunities are lavished on then1, tbat the Jnore thoughtless fail to see the relation of theh· rights to other people's, and, in the .self irnportance of early man- hood, forget that the world is not for the1n alone. Students of this kind need delicate handling .. They jealously den1and to be treated as men, take advantage of the instructors 'vho treat thetn so, -and excuse themselves on the ground that they . torical League will hold its fourth annual con.- test under the auspices of Syracuse University at Syracuse, Thurday, March 4· The league is cotnposed of Union, Rochester and Syracuse Universities, and hold an annual contest for a gold tnedal. Each college has won a tnedal in the past ; in I 894 Mr. Varney of Rochester, in 1895, Mr. Rockwell H. Potter, '95, of Union, and last year M-r. C. W. Walker of Syracuse. The competitors in the preliminary contest to choose Union's candidate and alternate are : a.re only boys.\ BasQ Ball. The training period for the base ball candi- date has arrived. This is a critical thne in our athletic history. 'J:'he work done in the gytn every afternoon will determine our success next spring. At present the nun1ber of candidates in training for positions on the varsity team has not met expectations, and Manager Willian1s has been forced to tnake a special plea to the fellows for a better and larger attendance at the indoor practice. Our· efficient managers will not be able to make a successful season without the strong .support of a well trained teatn. Much credit is due Manager W 11lian1s for the arrangetnent of several attractive trips and many very desirable gatnes with other colleges. For assistant 111anager the student body have elected Geo. A. Holcon1be, of Collinsville, Conn., who was the manager of his class team in freshman year. The candidates now in trainin()\ for the vari- • • . b ous pos1tlons are as follows : Catcb, Hegeman, ''99 ; Stewart, . 1900, Quinlan, Medical. Pitch, Parsons, '98, Capt. ; Thatcher, 1900; Edwards, rgoo. 1st base, \tViley, '99; Bonesteel, '99; ·Campbell, '97. zd base, Merchant, '98; Cook, r9oo. Short stop, Purchase, '99; French, 1900. 3d base, Davis, 1900; Jones, rgoo; Giles, '97· Outfield, Whipple, '98 ; W. C. Yates, '98; Wyckoff, '97; Stnith, '99; Paige, 1900; Gage, '99; Sanders, 1900; Dalton, 1900; Fenton, 1900, and Delehanty, Medical. Blodgett, '97, Furbeck, '97, Pershing, '97, Cox, '98, Putnam, '98, Reed, '98, and Loucks, 1900. The competition is limited to metnbers of the Philotnathean and Adelphic Societies. Peter Nelson, '98, is Union's member of the executive committee. According to the rules, the pre- liminary contest must take place at least three weeks before the final, but an extension of titne has been asked. The preliminary contest will be held in the chapel. The judges selected are Profs. Truax and Patterson and Instructor Opdyke. Several of the ·Candidates have already shown cot1siderable oratorical ability and the two new men entered will doubtless prove themselves worthy opponents. In view of the high stand taken by Union in athletic matters, it will still n1ore redound to the honor of Union if her supren1acy in oratory also may be triumphantly assured. A bill prohibiting foot ball has been intro- duced in the Indiana legislature. Trenchard, of Princeton, has been engaged as physical instructor by the University of Wis- . COllSlU. The students of Hobart College recently petitioned the trustees of that institution, asking that no professor be allowed to join a secret ftaternity. The petition was granted, and an order to that effect has been issued.

THE CONCORDIENSlS. A bill making it a misdemeanor to play foot ball has been introduced into the Pennsylvania legislature. General Craighill, who has just been placed on the retired list, is being talked of for the presidency of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Theodore Roo.sevelt has been suggested as a probable candidate for the presidency of Hobart College, Geneva, N. Y., a position left vacant by the resignation of Dr. Eliphalet Potter. Lord Dartmouth, from one of whose ancesters Dartmouth College was nam!ed, has presented the college with a set of volumes of the Dart- mouth papers. These papers throw much light on the feelings of the Englishtnen toward America during the Revolution, and they con- tain tnany references to the college. During the last five yea.rs the University of Chicago has 1·eceived as gifts, for grounds and buildings, $2, r 5o,ooo ; for the Yerkes Observa- tory, $4oo,ooo ; from endowtnent and private gifts, $9,41 2,ooo ; the Morgan Park property, $3o,ooo. The total gifts from all sources a1nount to $I I ,509,550. Professor E. I. Wheeler, who lectured in Princeton last week, is endeavoring to raise $3500 to carry on the American excavations at Corinth. The Greek governtnent has agreed to appropriate the land desired for excavation, provided three fourths of the price is paid by the An1erican school at Athens. GEOLOGICAL EXPEDITION FROM CHICAGO. The University of Chicago has sent an expe- dition under the charge of Col. T. W. Brooks to search for fossil re1nains of turtles in Inyo County, California. It is expected that the ex- pedition will bring back to the Field Colun1bian Museum and to the University of Chicago the most wonderful fossil turtles ever known. Two fossils, each over fourteen feet in circumference and weighing upward of two tons, are known to be in the region which the expedition will visit. It is said that there are other fossil turtles over eleven feet in circutnference. A NEW COLLEGE DAILY-THE TENTH IN THE UNITED STATES. The announcement comes fro1n Tulane Uni- versity, New Orleans, that the two weekly student publications, C()llege Spirt\t and The 01-lve and Blue, which have been rivals for son1e time past, have settled their differences and agreed to coalesce. The result will he a daily paper taking the natne of the older publi- cation, College Splrlt. With this addition, .there '\Vill be ten college dailies in the United States, representing ten large colleges. 1.\hese dailies are : 'l'he Cornell SU'Il, The Pen'nsylvanlan, The rate News, The Dally Palo Alto (Stanford.), The Har- vard Crlmson, The Pr-inceton-ian, The Brown I-ferald, The Daily Card-inal (Univ. of Wi:s- consin,) and The U: of 111. .Daily (Univ. of Michigan). Among the larger universities which have no dailies is the University of Cali- fornia, whose students issue a four-days-in-the- week paper, The Berkeleyon. There are also three other big institutions which have no dailies, their weeklies being The Columbla Spectator~ The Un-lversity of Chicago Weekly, and The Arz\el (U niv. of Minn.}- Cornell .Dally Sun. FOOT BALL IS NOT BRUTAL. The Chicago Inter- Ocean sent out the follow- ing inquiries to 227 foot ball players on the leading teatns in the United States: I. What were your injuries during the season? 2. What benefit,. if any, did you derive from playing? 3· Do you consider it a beneficial sport ? If so, in what way ? 4· Is foot ball brutal ? 5. What plays would you suggest .. for dis- barn1ent by rule ? 6. How long have you played ? 7. Have you received many pern1anent in- juries ? 8. What do you think of indoor football ? Fro1n the statements of the one hundred and fifty-one 1nen who replied the following results were gathered: Replies received, I5 I Temporary injuries, 55 Permanent injuries, ... 2 Uninjured, · - - 96 Itnproved physical condition, 15 I Total years played, 59 I Football is brutal, I Football is not brutal, - 150 These replies are fl·om men who have exper- ienced all the vicissitudes of the game and must be accepted as testimony far more convincing than the complaints of many who have never played the game and of some who have never seen it.

Sophomores' essays are due March 26. Prof. Mosher was unable to meet his classes '· Tuesday. The '98 Garnet will appear about the tniddle of March. Hoxie, '98, spent· Sunday at his hotne in ! H0l{S1'}1ANN'S ===--==--==- ==.;_._ ..• Canlbridge. Thelargestandfinest \H' AR' n·~,.T Hinman, '99:, is suffering from a wrenched .. •' liue of c)gars and 6 • r · ·n . · ft '- • .& & smok;ers' sup- knee, and is confined at his home in Albany. ; : pli:i~.the The college boys have been enjoying rapid • transit down Union Street hill for some titne , 129 Wa'U St., opp. P. 0. past by patronizing the \bobs.\ The New rork Tribune,. of Jan. 30, contains· a h1rge and striking portrait of Bishop Henry Codman Potter, '41 ; the same paper also pub- lishes an extensive account of this most famous son of Old ,Union. Dr. Reeves lectured before the Society to Promote Useful Reading at the Y. M. C. A. rooms Saturday afternoon, Feb. 6. His subject was ''An Introduction to the Study of the Fifteenth Century.\ T HE FISK TEA·CHERS' ACENCIES, 4 Ashburton Place, Boston; 70 Fifth A venu,e, N. Y.; 355 Wabash Avenue, Chicago; 25 King Street, West, •.roronto; 1242 Twelfth Street, Washington, D. C.; 525 Stimson Block, Los Angeles; 414: Century Building, Minneapolis, Minn.; 107 Keith & Peny Building, Kansas City, Mo.; 728 Cooper Building, Den- ver, Col. Agency Manual Free. EVJDRETT o. FISK & Co. l3.R:I\f.()'TE ~ l;JE1l'E]'IFnel{, a- Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL aQd WeeB BON BONS AND CH:OGOLA1'ES,. At .. THoMAs' Music STORE No, 15 North Pearl St., ALB4NY, N •. Y. You will find the \\V ASHBURN King of :Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest .Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UN10N CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies .should wr·ite for terms on PIANOS. ~-..-THOMAS HAS THE BEST. ----- THE--.,---- }!!lDINS ®~INTER. ([{?as. l3urrows, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. . .. Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Stt·aw and Fertilizers. ~·a~~~rl&~~~~I~~~ Printing, Ruling, Binding, &c. Schenectady, N. Y. g_tr;rYLE & SON~ ® E!tQKAVERS, ® L.A. YOUNG. 0 GEORGE S. FOX L.A. YOUNG & CO. HEADQUA.ltTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN THE MU,SlCAL LINE. PIAN:os TO RENT. The Oldest House in the State. The Largest Dealers in the City. Sole Agents for WASHBURN'S goods, and Headquarters for everything in the line of music. ~---ALBANY, N. Y. ~54 STATE STREET, SCHE\NEVTADY N. Y.

10 We!bb·e:r's Central Pharmacy .. :::::::::::;:;~::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::t::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· NEW STORE. J~EW GOODS. S1nokers are invited to eall and inspect the Finest Line of Meerschaum and Briar Pipes in the city. AU ne·w and of the latest .style; also a fine line of Imported and Domestic Cigars. PRESCRlPTION WORK A SPECIALTY. tJor. State St. and the Bail Road. ~ARTISTIC PRRlSlANtE . Dry an;d Steam Cleaning 'aid Dyeing Works JA~OB RIND:P'LEISOli, Ptrop. Ot.EA~S, DYES AND BEPAIEfJ ·Gl!l~'l'S' CLOTHING. Shine removed from all garments. First-class work guar- anteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge, to any part of the city. 18 CENTRAL AROA.DE, SCHENECTAD-Y,. N. Y. Alterations and repairing a specialty. Open until 9 P. M. Work done at short notice. . , f{q~IE.~ ~. ~~~~~'!~(())~~ / ~ and other cut flowers \ conlitantly on hand. . • • . (91>P· P. 0.) &n GRUPE, The Florist, 125 WALL STREET, UNDER EDISON HOTEL. V'fiCA, N. Y. i• HIG.H GRADE SHOES .. --AT LOWEST PR:rCES.- \''84.15 State st. PATTON & BALL. ::r. (Wanamaker & :::BrQWn) FINE CLOTHING. ••••• D:ON'''T BEL:IEVE • • • exaggerated statements made in advertise- ments-everyone claiming ,supel'iority. 'l'here are only two things that create LEADERSHIP. First, ripened experience; second, sufficient o~~.-~.tlet to purchase larger quantit.iestbananyother establish- nlent in the same line. WANAMAKER & BROWN, of Philadelphia answer to this, having. 24 years experience, controUing the best buyers, and supplying the largest trade. WE REPRESENT 1'HE :LEADER, --304: STATE S'rR:EET.-- Two doors abo-ve the Canal.-Whell you're down DROP IN. ~The trade of the students and alumni is especially solicited . ~sc·HENECTADY ClOTHING CO., ... THE LEADJNG ..• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. .A... G. HERRICK. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. C. E. BOTHAM, 214 CLINTON STREET.

__,............ .. ADVERTISEMENTS.- 11 Dasc saLL 1 Supplies. Spalding League 13all, Mits, Masks, .etc. Managers should send for samples aud special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, 'l'raek and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Summer ,Sports free. '' The Nan1e the .1, MRs. A. BuRcH • • • •· ~ ~ 0 ~0~ -<::>0~ RESTAURANT \\\ 5~. \ RESTAURANT ~0~ v ..::;:::yo~ 0 Q 12 CENTRAL .ARCADE. *** Guarantee.'' A. G. SPALDING & BROS., NewY'jr~fi~icago, .•. Boston Baked Beans a Specialty. t!UI~l'~ ·:· ~}l6E ·:· ~l¥6~E, JOHN T. JOHNSON, 311 State, Cor. Wall StTeet. GENTLENEN :- You are all invited to see our stock of Fall and Winter goods before buying. · OUR FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR ANY FOOT-WARE SO·LD ELSE-WHERE. Our stock is complete, and we handle notl1ing but First- Class-M:ade Shoes-Price from $2.00 up. The latest style Win- ter Russet we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $3.48, can't be beat. QUIRl'S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. New York University Law School. Confers J ... L. B., also (for graduate courses) LL. M. Day and Evening Sessions. Tuition Fee, $100. No Incidental Fee. Sixty-second year begins October 1st, 1896. For catalogue, address REGISTRAH. University. Washington Square, New York City. fl. G. f\USTif'l ENGRAVlNGCO., · ••• SO & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Jlhoto. Engravers, Illust11atot·s and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phnsochr0me. Send Ji'or Estimates. College '\vork a Specialty. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. EI'NIBN OOLLE6E B®OK EXe}1f\-N6E. 2\\ ~I AU College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college supplies. Fashio:na·ble and Popular Tailor. :No. 35 :Maiden Lane, Albany, N. v. SUITS FROM $18.00 UP. .PANTS $4.00 AND UPWA:RD. i L. T. CLUTE.,_..-=:==. ............. ~ HATTER AND FURRIER. Also, Trunks, Ba,gs, S'uit (Jo,ses, Gloves, U·rnb1•ellas, Cwnes, Etc. 227 S'f A'T'E 81'R E E1'. u..: _J w . (/) ~l­ Oo:: oo (.!JLL.. >- (() ~~ 0:: LJJ ~~ ~~ <to:: wo 813 (/) >- 0::~ uJ ~ 0 1- (/) :::> u U> c:. =i· (j) , :::0 0 s: \'U* ·~~ --io (/')0 ~c . -o o· 0 > z 0 c -u ~ )> ::0 9

12 -ADVERTISEME·NTS.------ Wanters of Full Dress Suits ! Here ai.'\e suits to rent and suits to sell; suits that will flit any normal figure. And all the other things needed to clothe man in the top notch of style- Patent Leathers, Silk Hats, Full Dress Shirts, Shields and Neckwear- Every stitch of clothing you need is getable here for less money than you'll find it any where else. SA , u ·L Olo. thie'l' of Man, Wo1nan and Child, · . • HHead to Foot,'~ · ' 61-63 N. Pearl St., ALBANY, I. Y. W. tc L. E. CUR:LEY, 514 FULTON ST,, TROY, N. Y. Largest Manufacturers in America . I I • I I I of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. ·~ , Also dealers in D·rawing Instruments, Paper, Tracing Cloth, Prepared Blue Print Paper, Colors and Brushes, Pens, Pen· cils, Inks, Rubber; T Squares, Drawing Boards, Triangles, Scales, Stencil Alpha- bets, Poc,ket Compasses, Magnifiers, Scientific Books, Etc., Etc. ~A. BI~O-w-N & SON,~ FURNITURE AID BEDDING ~ ALL ~NDS ~ FOR ~ STUDENTS ~ USE, THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. P. F. McBREEN 218· William St •. , New York R. T. MOIR, ~~====-­ sooKs, FINE STRTIONERY, PIGT'URE FRJ1MING, Ere. AL:-:AYDSY PRINTER ---::!---·~-· -·- . _____ · __ __.._ <9HE ... €DISON I)OJilELr, L:::::=:.::::::::--- S ch ene c tad y, N. Y. CtntYally located, and the Largest and.Best Appointed Hotel in the city. Headqua1•ters for Commercial Travellers and Touri'st.s. GHAS. BROWN, PROPRIEroR. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ....• 3~13 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. H 0 TEL KEN M 0 RE, -===::=::::-\. ........................................................................................ ............................................................................................. . . LEADING HOTEL .. of ALBANY, N. Y. Strictly First-Class. I-IEAD~UARTERS FOR UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props. •

The i, •.• -· ~ \ ' \I \~,,.:· .,-··\···-\ -\ \ ·.. ·-:~·~,~-~··-- ... / ·- .. - .. \. -~ .. J ~ ~ C . d... • on cor ·.··. 1ens1s. .~ .. ··\' ·.·j~~ ... _r[:.;.;. •• $~ PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, S-CHENECTADY, N. Y. VoL. XX. FEBRUARY 20, 1 897. No. 19.

2 --. ADVERTISEMEN'TS.- UNION COLLEGE A.lfD:REW V. V.ltA.!:MOND, D. D., LL, D., Pre;ident, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. . 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern lan~ua.ges are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot. Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. E,......:This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. · · · 4. General Course Leading to t]le Degree of B. E • .....- Th4s course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering education, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the prOfession, a knowledge of both French and Germa~ and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Cou1•se Leading to the Degree of B. E.- T11is differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to tb.e Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Cou1·se 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for speeial information address BENJ\AMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in Septemher. Three years strictly graded course. In- structi()IUI by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and p1·actical demonsti·ations and operations. Clinical advantagE?.! e:xcellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, ~5; annual lecture course, $100; :pe1·petual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10 ; laboratory course, ea.ch, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, ::M.D., RegistTar, Albany, \1T. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A.lbany Law School.-This department is located at Albany., near the State Capitol. it occupies a buildin~ wholly devoted to its use. The eourse is one year, divided mto two semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address J. NEWTON ]'IERO. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercise• held in Albany Medical College. Annu.al lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa.- tioll address . DE B.AUN VANAKEN, Ph. G., ~eeret.a;ey, ~2 Hamilton St. -ALBANY- Art • • • U11ion. (Formerly Sterry's Studio,) 55 NORTH PEARL ST., • • A.LBANY, N.Y. • • Highest Grade of Photography. BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. !he ine6t llgar6 and the ~Jure6t of Drug~·, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. Do You Know • .......................................................................... u ............................................................. . ............................................................................................................................................. That a good way to secure a position as teacher is to register in the . . . . Albany Teachers' Agency? ............................................................................................................................................................................................ ······-··········--···--·-··· ............................................................................................................................................................... . If not, send for circulars and learn what it can do for you. HARLAN F. FRENCH, 24 State Street. ALBANY, N. y.

The Con_cordien_sis VoL. XX. UNION COLLE'GE, FEBRUARY 20, 1897. No. 19. T~e Ceeture of ~~ester p .. j1oleomba. prof. psl}more's CeGttJre. Professor Sidney G. Ashmore gave a very interesting lecture in the chapel last Friday · Evening on \The Olympic Games,\ at which Chester A. Holco1nbe, of the class of '6 r, who llas been connected with the American legation in China for over twenty years, delivered an address on that great country to the students Friday afternoon, February 5. After referring to his own college days he said, it was ab- solutely itnpossible to describe so great a country in so short a titne and he would only attetnpt to refute some of the erroneous ideas which exist concerning China. · · l11e \vas present in Athens last April. He said · that people have ceased to be interested in only · the literary side of Grecian history and that archreology is also demanding a great deal of attention from architects, engineers and students generally. l-Ienee the accurate renewal of a ·. custom of antiquity, which occupied an im- ·. portant position in ancient history, is of great educational value. Both because of the check In regard to the statement that the oldest university in the world is in Pekin, he said it was only a kind of civil service examination to which thousands of students flock yearly. Of these only about twelve hundred pass. Tl1is alone constitutes the oldest university. He said the · government was little more of an absolute despotism than the United States. The emperor is nominally absolute, but takes little active part in the government. The affairs of government are adn1inistered by a privy council, and the provinces of which the empire is made up are governed by viceroys who are no more under the central govern1nent than our own states. He also said there was no trial by jury, and a Chinaman would probably be more willing to entrust his life to the tender mercies of one man than twelve. Genuine democracy nowhere exists to a greater d.egree than in China. Public officials and their acts 'are fully discussed and criticised and the emperor is protected frotn criticis1n only because he is the head of the church, and as such he is held sacred. The people do not even talk of him with freedom. It is claimed that this stability of the Chinese government is due only to the fact that the system is paternal in fonn, and in that respect differs from all other nations. Filial piety is the fundamental idea in the Chinese system of government. , given by their athletic nature to the influx of oriental luxury and because of the great con- course of people at Olytnpia every four years, for over 1 ooo years these games had great in- fluence over the Greek mind. The 1nodern games, ho-vvever, were held at Athens because of the superiot· accomodations which we1·e altogether lacking at Olympia. Greek scenery is essentially the same everywhere and there was therefore no objection to holding the g<tmes at Athens. The stadium was restored by the generosity of a Greek citizen, and in the presence of 7o,ooo people in gala attire the festival took place. Professor Ashmore gave a vivid de- . scription of the last day and the winning of the 25 tnile race from Marathon to Athens by a .. native, Spiridion Louis. During the festival the Antigone of Sophocles was performed in a modern theatre by Greek actors. It is the desire of the Greeks to always celebrate the festival at Athens, but some of the international cotn- mittee wish it to take place at Paris in 1900 and at New York in 1904. The question has not yet be~n decided. At the conclusion of the lecture there was thrown upon a screen a ntunber of magic lantern views, prepared by Ensign, '97, of the Acro- polis and other places celebrated in Grecian history.

4 THE CO_NCORDIENSIS. Cast SuQday's SermoQ. In view of the many controversies now going · on among religious thinkers whose views are diverse, President Raymond's discourse in the chapel last Sunday afternoon was especially noteworthy. The undetlying vein of thought throughout the sermon was, that it is the spirit, rather than the word that we are to consider in the interpretation of the scriptures. The subject and text of the sern1on was the quotation from Matthew 5 : 17, '' Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets. I am not come . to desttoy, but to fulfill.\ The belief that any man's teachings are de- structive, has always been enough to stir up opposition, for destruction expresses man's pro- foundest thought of evil ; and to struggle against it is the law of self-preservation. But never- theless this opposition to supposed destructive influences has written the saddest pages of history. It crucified Christ and poisoned So- crates and burnt Latimer and inspired the In- quisition and is to-day the constraining power in every heresy trial. On general principles we are all suspicious of any influence that attacks or seems to attack existing beliefs and practices. vVhatever ·comes to us with the sanction of the past is held sacred. Indeed we may say that scorn of the past goes far to prove ones utter untrustworth- iness as a leader of thought in his own times. We see Christ therefore asserting his faith in the law and the prophets. Nevertheless he was opposed as hostile to the law and as a destructive force in Jewish life. This, because he brought out the deeper meaning of historic truths and revealed the spirit of every commandment. And since Judaism was devoted to the letter, Christ's teachings were regarded as revolutionary ; de- structive and destructive only, because there is no greater antagonism known upon earth, than that, which exists between the letter and the spitit. The teaching of Christ freed the pre- existing scriptures from the literalness which had been the limitation of the past and the bondage of the present. To-day we are moving in the midst of a confused mass of material laid at our feet bv t . 1 ~ · 1re ess research. Every idea that has been of service in any generation is demanding new expression in larger fm.·m to-day ; and every conception, however great or beneficial in the past, is revealing its insufficiency. What can , all this mean but that the fullness of times is again cnme and the spirit of Christ is moving toward the fulfillment of the law and the prophets. It is for us to listen as that spirit speaks, to follow where that spirit leads, be- lieving that he comes not to destroy but to fulfill. fnr. s. fn. 8ayford. Mr. S. ~1. Sayford who has devoted about seven years in working amongst the students of our leading American colleges will be at Union, Feb. 23d to 28th. The put·pose of Mr. Say- ford's work is to promote purity of thought and conversation ; to raise the standard of Christian living ; to win students for Christ, and to lead college 1nen to put the san1e enthusiasm into their Christian work that they put into their social organizations. It is usual to hold daily meetings, but his greatest work consists in his personal interviews with young men. The fact that he has been warmly welcotned by both students and professors in such institutions as Yale, Princeton, Cornell, Brown, Williams and scores of other colleges is sufficient proof of the practicability of his work. Atnong, the stu- dents of these institutions, fully 2o,ooo have covenanted for a higher type of Christian life. The time for Mr. Sayford's first tneeting will be arranged later. T~e Beta T9eta pi's EQtertaiQed. Miss May Clare tendered a reception to the me~bers o~ the :Beta Theta Pi fraternity and the1r lady fnends at her home on Union street, Monday evening, February r5. Among·those present were the M'isses Campbell Frame Pilling, Clute, Teller, Palmer, Swits' Ostrom' P . ' ' erry, Alexander, White and Freeman.

TI~E CONCORDIENSIS. . . - . 5 The fourth annual banquet of the class of '97 was held at Hotel Edison, Wednesday evening, February I 7. The members of the class of '97 have always found great pleasure i~ these annual gatherings around the banquet board, and VV ednesday eve- ning especially there \vas a flow of soul and spirit such as would gratify the most enthusias- tic collegian. The speech of the toastmaster, the response to the toasts and the n1any im- pl·om ptu speeches, which were tnade during the evening, expressed class friendship and col- lege spirh in the superlative degree. Lack of space forbids a detailed account of the elegant speeches, any one of which \\vould deserve a column abstract. The toast list \vas as follows : HunnELL RoBINSON, 'I'oasttnaster. R. D. FULLER. ALMA $MATER, H For many a day as thy waUs g-r.ow gray May the-y ring with thy children's chorus.'' FACULTY 1\'1. J. MULTER. ' u So teach us to number our days, that we may apply ·our hearts unto wisdom .• , MUSICAL ASSOCIATION, II. C. TODD. \The ma11 that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit fo1' t1~easons, stt·atagems .and spoils.\ THE LA.DIES, . H. A. FREY. ~·If lacHes be but young and fail' 1 I'hey have the gift to know it.'' THE FOOT BALL SEASON, PAUL CANFIELD. u Inf er:r~al noise ! war seemed a civil game, 'To this uproar; houid confusion heaped Upon coufusion rose.\ F. P. PALMER. COLLEGE JOURNALISNI, H Here shall the :Press the People's rights maintain, Una wed by intluence and unbribed l)y gain.\ BASE BALL PROSPECTS, G. E. WILLIAMS. u. \Vith prospects all so bri~ht, 'T were folly to despair.'' OUR BANQUET, E. E. DRAPER. •• The sho1·test way to reach men's hearts I find, Lies through their mouths or I mistake mankind.\ THE FUTURE OF ATHLETICS, A. 1-I. BIRCH. u These are the times that try men's souls,,, PROPHECY, H. H. BROWN. H The best prophets of the future iR t11e past.,, Sop:ljo{T\or~'s 8oir~~· Amid beautiful surroundings and brilliant lights, to the enchanting strains of sweet music, there gathered last night in the Van Curler Opera House a company of fair won1en and black-coated tnen, to enjoy the annual Sopho- nlore Soiree. And it was a success financially, as well as socially. From the time the orchestra began to play until the cotning of day light and the departure ot the guests, there was nothing to tnar the harmony of the occasion; and the Sophotnores have reason to be proud. There vvere few attempts at decoration but the orchestra, Elgie's of Albany, was half hidden behind a bower of ferns. The boxes were occupied by 1nen1bers and friends of the Chi Psi, Beta Theta Pi, and Phi Gan11na Delta fraternities. The floor was better than last year. There was a large attendance, both from out of town and frotn this city, and over fifty students were present. During the intern1ission refresh- ments were served by Colburn of Albany. No weep in' does us fellers, cuz, We couldn't jine the dance; Fer sakes alive, we'll pinch and strive In la1·nin' to ad vance. An' then, by gun1, a tin1e 'll come, vVhen we'll surprise you chaps; Fer us as digged while others jigged, \\Vill snalre the shoulder straps. So go an' dance, an' prhnp an' prance, You've got your place to fill; We'll light our pipe, break into type, ...1\n git thar, won't we Bill? -'98. The Princeton base ball teatn will make a southern trip this spring playing at · Baltimore the University of Virginia and the University of North Carolina. \The University Glee Club of New York City, Dean Ripton appeared in chapel last week for the first tirne since his. recent illness. con1posed of college graduates, will give its second concert on April 29, in the l\1adison Square Garden Concert Hall.

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ THE Co·NcoRDIENSIS. PUliLISHED EVERY WEEK EURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. 'EY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COIJLEGE. THE REPORT of tbe college Ineeting held last Friday morning which ·appears elsewhere in this paper sl1ows it to have been one of the most bn- . portant college meetings held this term. The student body subjected themselves to con- siderable criticism by various tnein bers of the facuity for holding the meeting the entire hour . The business transac1;ed, however, was of sufficient in1portance to warrant tben1 in doing as they did. It cannot be justly sa.id tl1a.t these meetings are purely unde1·graduate affairs. It is of i111portance to the en tire college that such matters as bring the undergraduate body in ·contact with the gen- eral public should be carefully considered and BOARD OF EIJITORS.· . F. PACKARD PALMER. '97, Editor-in-Chief. El!)WARD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business Manager. HI::R.AM 0. TODD, '97, . - Literary Editor. CII:ARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Asst. Bus. Manager. CA.RL HAMMER, '98, ·} WI~LIA:M D . R~E,D, '98, Assistant Editors. P. P. SHEEHAN, 98, LEROY T. BR. ADF.ORD '99, ) F. RoY CHAMPIO:N, '99. t Reportorial Staff. GEORGE C. ROWELL, '99, ~ G~O·B:GE H. FISH, '99, - Albany \.'Medical College ... · · nothing done or left undone which would tend to reflect upon the. ~ood name of the institution. A large sum of money was raised for the pur- pose of equiping and maintaining a base ball team in the spring, and liquidating the outstanding indebt~dness of the athletic association. TE.RMS: CONCORDIENSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Advance. S'ingle Copies, 10 Cents. PAlt'l'HENON, - $1. 00 per Year in Ad vance. l3oth Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance . ..Add1·ess all con1munications to THE CoNCOitDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to ntake checks pay- able to Edward E. D1·aper, Business Manager. \En.tered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE NE\V singing books which have recently bee:n presented to the. c.oilege, by a friend who <lo~s not wish to have l1is name mentioned, will fill a long felt want. A lar~e number of students enjoy singing and now that books have been supplied they ·will he able to assist to better ad- vantage in the chapel services. '\Ve all a.ppreciate the gift and 1nost ~incerely · t'ba.nk the donor 'vho, even though his name was not mentioned, is known by a large nu1nber of us. WE WISH to call attention editorially to the fact . t tl1at, notwithstanding the very liberal proposition ()i the athletic board, many students refused to subscribe to the athletic fund. It is absolutely necessary that the money be raised before the athletic board will allow the 1nanager to continue negotiations with other colleges. We are inclined to think that many of those who have not yet s n bscribed could add something to the fund. Eecause one does not feel able to contribute as generously as his neighbo1· is no excuse for him to 1.·efuse to contribute at all. ~l]arter Day Exerei~es. THE MORNING SERVICES IN THE CHAPEL. The services held in the chapel Thursday morning were most enjoyable. At ro: 30 o'clock the students and a nutnber of the Schenectady towns-people assembled to listen to the extren1ely interesting addresses which wet·e the features of the service. President Raymond, after reading from the scriptures and deliveri11g a prayer, entered upon a detailed account of the founding of Union College. His historical sumtnary was supple- lnented by a reading of the charter granted to Union College by the legislature of the state of New York in I795· President Rayn1ond was followed by Dr. Wells who, to use his own word, gave to those present so1ne very interesting \gossip.\ His description of the conditions attending his first view of l.T nion College provoked con&iderable laughter. All of Dr. Wells' references to the m·en and events of his acquaintance were of the greatest interest to those present. A hearty college cheer for \ Billy\ followed his remarks. Dr. Perkins spoke about some of Union's loyal sons. His first remarks were concerning Dr. Raytnond, in which he paid a graceful compliment to our esteemed president. Dr. 1 f ·~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. r -·- Perkins.' stories and anecdotes were particularly fascinating. The closest attention was paid to all of Dr. Perkins' remarks and every one re- gretted that they could not hear hitn longer. Dr. Ripton's speech was omitted on account of the lateness of the hour. The speeches and college songs together with the fact that the entertain,ers were directly con- nected with the college, aU coq1bined to make the exercises of such interest that they will long be remetnbered by every person present. ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE. The third annual debate between the Philo- tnathean and Adelphic societies took place at the First Presbyterian church, Thursday even- ing. Pres. A. V. V. Raymond presided, assisted by A. M. Blodgett, '97, and R. D. Fuller, '97, presidents of the societies. The College Glee and Mandolin.clubs rendered sev- eral selections. The question for debate vvas: Resolved, ''That a wise policy fot· the United States precludes territorial acquistion.\ The affinnative was sup- ported by Hotaling, '97, Swann, '98, and Cullen, '98, of the Adelphic society, and the negative by Reed, 'gS, Brown, '97, and Hol- ·combe, '98, of the Philomatheans. The debate throughout was interesting. The ·question showed careful study and preparation. Each speaker was allowed eight minutes, and five minutes for sun~ming up. The committee ·Of award consisted of Chief Justice Charles Andrews, and Justices Samuel Edwards and Judson S. Landon. After a ~election by the Mandolin club, Chief Justice Andrews an- nounced the aw~n·ds. Prize of $5o to the Philo- mathean society and $5o individual prize to Francis Cullen, '98. 5o §tart a ~ew l.LiiQter Resort. T'he Hon. John. H. Starin, a trustee of Union University, and Robert C. Alexander, '8o, both of New\\.. ork, have recently purchased an island of 6,ooo acres near Charleston, S.C., and intend to fit it up as a winter resort. The island was used du.ring the war by the government for storing atnmunition and supplies. Since pur- chasing the property, the owners have been <>ffered an advance of $3o,ooo. The North Dakota legislature wants to make foot ball playing a misdemeanor. The Senior class at Lehigh has decided to wear caps and gowns after Easter. Dartmouth is trying to arrange for a joint Glee, Banjo and Mandolin club with Columbia. The Mott Haven gan1es will be held on Satur- day, May 29th, and the inter-collegiate bicycle meet on the previous Wednesday. The Ancient Order of Hibernians has voted $5o,ooo to Washington University to endow a chair of Celtic languages and literature. There were fifty candidates in a recent pre- liminary debate, held at Willian1s College, in preparation for the annual debate with Dart- mouth.-Ex. The office of United States District Judge in Maine, frotn September 26, I 789, to the present day, has been filled continuously by Harvard graduates except for three years. Bowdoin is trying an interesting experiment in the department of Latin and Greek. Tutors regularly meet the backward men, thus sup- plen1enting the work of the professors. Statistics from sixty-seven colleges in thirty- seven states show that foot ball students stand one-half per cent. higher in their studies than the average of the whole college.- 0. S. U. Lantern. The Phi Beta Kappa society at Y ... ale has arranged for lectures by Laurence Hutton, the literary critic; Wm. T. Harris, United States Commissioner of Education, and President Thwing of Western Reserve University. The co1n1nittee on track athletics of the Uni- versity of Pennsylvania has announced the grouping of universities, colleges _and schools for the annual relay races at Franklin Field, April 23. According to the schedule, Cornell is to meet Columbia, and Lehigh Lafayette. The standard of scholarship acquired for ad- mission to Phi Beta Kappa at Yale has been raised, the new arrangement first taking effect with the class of 1900. The new average re- quired is 3.30, in place of 3· I5, on a basis of 4, vvhich governs all grading at Yale.-E.x.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. per5oQals. Brown, r9oo, is confined to his ... room by illness. Jennings, ex-'98, visited friends on the hill recently. Canfield, '97, spent a few days in N·ew York last \\·eek. Featherstonhaugh, 1900, is confined at his home by illness. Sophomore orations for this tenn are due Friday, Feb. 26. \¥ entworth Tucker, '99, spent .a portion of last week in New Y ark. Chas. H. Kilpatrick, ex-'98, visited friends on the hill several days last week. Andt·ews, 'g8, has been confined to his roon1 in North college several days by illness. The subjects for Freshman essays have been posted and the essays are due February 26. Dr. and Mrs. Raymond gave a reception to the Senior class last Friday fro1n 4 to 6 o'clock. N. V. V. Franchot, '71, Mayor of Olean, N. Y., and a trustee of the college was in town last week. Rev. Clinton W. Clowe, '93, of Gansevoort., occupied the pulpit of Mont Pleasant Chapel last Sunday. The annual meeting of the Inter-collegiate Athletic Association will be held in New York,. . February 27. Several students tried the civil service exa-· 1:ninations, heild in Albany last Saturday, for examiner in E11glish. The North college boys gave Instructor Lynes a reception one night last week in which Georg~ Washington played a prominent part. Theodore Roosevelt, New York's Police Comn1issioner, recently spoke at Princeton on ''An Object Lesson in Municipal Reform.'' Sherwood, '99, who has been ill with pneu- n\lonia at the Psi Upsilon house is recovering and will soon teave for California to spend the remainder of the winter. At a special college tneetin.g Tuesday morning Birch, '97, Sl1eehan, '98, and Chatnpion, ~99,. were appointed to wait on the faculty and secure Charter day as a holiday. The Shakespeare club, an established student The state of Illinois is taxed to the amount of $So,_ooo fo.r the maintenance of the State U ni- j vers1ty. organization,. is on the eve of a series of n1eet- ings for the reading of Anthony and Cleopatra and the discussion of the art and philosophy of that play. Webber's Central Pharmacy. :S::~ ::r. ~~ -c7GE:e., ~•••••••••••••••\'••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••'\•••••••••••..,•••••u••••••••••••••u••••••••••••••-••••••••••-••••••••••-•••••••••••••••••••• •••••••u••••••••••••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••••u••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••\•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.o•••••••••••••-•••••••••••••••••• NEW 8'rORE. NEW GOODS. '•' 'l 'l 1\ I\. I\ Smokers a.re invited to call and inspect the Finest Line of Meerscha.utu and Briar Pipes in the city. All new and of the latest style; also a fine line of Iu1ported and Do1nestic Cigars. PRESCRIPTION 'VORK A SPECIAL'rY. Co1·. State St. and the Rail lload. ~AR'f'l8'rl8 PARISIAN~ D1 1 y and Steam Cleaning and Dyeing \Yorks • JACOB RINDYLEISCH, Prop. CLEANS, DYES AND BEPAI!S GEN'rS' CLOTHING. Shine removed from all ga1·ments. Fii~st-class work guar- anteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge, to any part of the city. 18 CENTRAL ARCADE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Alterations and repairing a specialty. Open until 9 P. :r;r. Work done at short notice. (Wanamaker & Brown) FINE CLOTHING. ••• DoN~T BELl EVE I • • exaggerat€d staternents made in advertise- . ments-ever-yone clain1ing superiority. There are- only two thi11gs that create LEADERSHIP. :F'irst,. ripened experience; second, sufficient o~ t tlet to purchase larger quautitiestha.n any other establish- ment in the same line. Vv AN AMAKER & BROWN, of PhJladelphia answer to th1s, having 34 years expe~jence, controlling the best buyers,. and supplying the largest trade in America . WE REP:RE8ENT THE LEADER, --,3()4 STATE STREET •. -- Two doors a:bo:ve the Ca.nal.- When you're down DROP IN. ~The trade of the students and alumni is especi-ally .solicited.

........__.....·Al}VERTISEMEN'rS.-- ......_.. pr~HmiiJary Oratori<:al <eoot~st. The athletic board held a meeting Wednesday evening, Feb. 17, to plan. the woTk for the corn- ing spring. There is still an indebtedness for the football reason to be settled and after a little The prefin1inary contest to select Union's can- didate in the Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest 'vas held in the college chapel on Tuesday even- ing Feb. x6. Nine speakers of exceptional : abil~ty presented themselves. An intet·esting contest followed whicn resulted in the selection discussion it \vas decided to include this in the of vV. Dewey Loucks, 1900, as Union's candi- budget for the coming season. The board date. His oration was entitled \ Abrahatn adjourned for a week and in the n1ean time the Lincoln.\ Orrin G. Cox, '98, was chosen as . student body V\ras asked to raise a subscription of alternate. · at least six hundred dollars. The matter was 'fhe other speakers were M.cMahon, '99, Fur- presented at a college meeting held the Friday beck, '97, Blodgett, '97, Hubbard, '99, Putnam, morning following and much enthusiasm was '98, Reed, '98 and Read, 1900. displayed. Many ofthe fellows responded liber- The judges were Professor Patterson and In- ally and although over a third of the students structors Opdyke and Bennett. were absent nearly four hundred twenty-five The Intercollegiate Oratorical Contest this . dollars were raised. The local alumni and the year will be held at Syt·acuse during March be- faculty are willing to help, but are waiting to tween Union, Syracuse and Rochester Univ~rsi- · see how the students will respond. Those who ties. Peter Nelson, '98, represents Union on were not present at the tneeting will he seen and the con1mittee of arrangements. it is hoped that the balance will be secured. I~51E5 :::s~ ~~Uli'JCll©!Nl5 ./' ~ and other cut flowers '\ constantly on hand. . . • . (opp. P. 0.) •nr. GRUPE, The Florist, 125 W ALI.; STREET, UNDER EDISON HOTEL. U'T'IGA, N. Y. .. ·HIGH GRADE SHOES .. ----AT LOWEST PRICES.- -· 246 State St. P .A.TTON & HALL. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., ... THE LEADING .•. ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS\ FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. .Jt. G. HERRICK. \Vhen in want of Sand-wiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. C. E. BOTHAM, 214 CLINTON STREET .

A ·i, -ti-E. ·R·· ·T· · ·.· r·s· .fl\'\J·'t'7'N. fi.\s·'i .... ,.....,......._._........ ..... .....,, ..ti.JJ V · · · .' ·J:!J.iVl. ..(!j . . • --'\'\\\\'\\\1>' 9 In the departn1ent of English language and literature Dr. 'I'ruux is. giving to the Seniors an elective course in English philology, and to the Juniors an elective cotJrse in Anglo-Saxon. He is lecturing to the Juniors on the Origin and Developtnent of English Prose Fiction, and directing special reading of particular novelists. He is also lecturing to the Juniors on Poetry and reading with them a number of represent- ative short non- dramatic poetns fron1 Milton to r.rennyson. With the satne class be is conducting a course in the English Essayists, frotn Bacon to Carlyle. At the opening of the term Dr. Truax 'lectured to the Sop hotnores on the Meaning of English Literature and the Literature of the Old and Early English Period, preparatory to the study of Chaucer, which the class is now pursuing with Mr. Edvvards as instructor. President Raymond attended an alumni ban- quet in Boston last week. --------- T HE FISK TEACHERS' AGENCIES, 4: Ashbnrton Place, Boston; 70 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.; 35.1 Wabash A venue, Chicago; 25 King Street, West, Toronto ; 1242 'Twelfth Street, Washington, D. C.; 525 Stimson Bloek, Los Angeles; 4:14 Century .Buildin~~ Minneapolis, Minn.; 10'1 Keith & Perry Building, Kansa::~ City-., Mo.; 7~8 Cooper Building, Den- ver, Col. Agency Manual ]free. EVERETT 0. FISK & Co. :SJil\rJ:YTE ~ tJE1tE]\'l'E~~~ o - ·wholesale and Retail Dealers in . . . . eO}tL al)d W00B Lime, Cement, Pla. l'lter, Hair, li'lour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union, Ji''eed, o-rai:n, Baled Hay, tltraw 209 and 211 Hock St •. and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N.Y. MAKERS TO UNION UNIVERSITY. 472 and 474 Broadway, Albany, N. Y. 110 KSTlVlAN N,~ ~--~=~- .. · ·- • Th!3 lar/fe~t and finest hne ot c1gars and smokers' sup- plies in the • A Pt1ARMIICT 129 Wall St., opp. P. 0. city. B·ON BONS AND GHQ.80LA'T'E8. At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE 0 w {j; (j; w 0 No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, :N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. r:rhe Choicest St.rillgs, Picks and lfiusical goods within 150 miles. 'l~he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ....a,-. ..... ..___THOMAS HAS THE BEST. ----~THE----- &DINe® ~INTER. ([Qas. ~urrOws, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y . * * ¥ • Printing, Ruling, Bind.ing, &c. L.A. YOUNG. 0 GEORGES. FOX L.A. YOUNG & GO. HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERY1}~1NG IN THE MUSICAL LINE. PIANOS TO RENT. The Oldest Hom;e in the State. The Largest Dealers in the City. Sole Agents for WASHBURN'S goods, and Headquarters fo1· everything in the line • of music. ~64 STATE STBEE'.C, .. SCHENE()TADY, N. Y,

-----ADVERTISEMENTS:.--- 11 I'ASE BALLI . ' . . . Supplies, .Spalding League Eall, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring .and Summer Sports f1·ee. \The Na1ne the Guarantee.\ A. G. SPALDlN.G & BROS., NewY~~i~~~icago, 311 State, OotJ•. WalZ St'l•eet. GENTLEMEN:- You are all invited to see our stock of Fall and \\\\inter goods before buying. OUR FOOT-WARE WILL OUT-WEAR \-._ANY FOOT-WARE SOLD ELS·E•WHERE. Our stock is complete, and we handle nothing but First- Class-Made Shoes-Price from $2.00 up. The latest style Win- ter Russet we will sell a.t $2.98, and Winter · Enamel at $3.48, can't be beat. QUIRI'S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. ,. New York University L·aw School. Confers LL.B., also (for graduate courses) LL. M. Day and Evening Sessions. 'l,uition Fee, $100. No Incidental l!'ee. Sixty-second year begins October lst, 1806. For catalogtw, a.ddress 1-tEGISTRAH. University. '\Yashington Square, Nevv York City. fL ••• 80 & 8~ Sta.te St., .~\.lbany, N.Y. Photo. EngraverR, Illustrators a.nd De8ig·nel'S. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusoehrome. Send ~,or Estiruate8. College work a Specialty. ------ -- ·- 4 ·------ CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. l:fNI0N eOLLEeE BBOK EXeJ1}lNeE. All Co_llege Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college sup pi ies. MRs. A .. BuRcH . . ,, . . tr\ =R=E=ST=A=U=H=A=NT==.= 5 <C. ===R=E=ST=. A=U=R:::::::::A=N=T= '=~ 12· CENTRAL ARCADE. *** \ . .. . Boston Baked Eea.ns a Speeialty. JOHN T. JOHNSON, :Fash·ionable and Popular Tailor. No. 35 Maiden Lane, Albauy, :N.. 1l. SUITS FROM $18.00 UP. PANTS $4.00 AND UPWARD. L. T. CLUTE~-.......=--=\-~ HAl-TER AND FURRIER. Also, Ti\'Ull'tks Ba.gs, Su.it Casl~.9, G-love.~, (/\} 0 0 0 (.!) >- ~ cr.: 0 LJ.. ~ <( w 0.. cJ) (./) 0::: w ~ 0 1- (/) ::> (.) limbrel'las, Canes, 1~tc. 227 S1 A1'E S1'R E E'f. u..: -' w (/) 1- 0:: 0 LL. (.(). ~ <( w Q_ if) ~ 0::: 0 ~ >- ::;?! - CONRAD GOETZ, \J~ )>- zOO -tO CJ)o tFtc ~\) o· 0 )> z 0 c 'lJ ~ )> :::0 0 8 O~ntral Arcade. ME1f()H.A:N1.' :.l'AlLOB

12 -ADVERTISEMENTS ........... · - Here are suits to rent and suits to sell; suits that will fiit any normal figure. And all the other thi~gs needed to clothe man in the top notch of style-· Patent Leathers, :Silk Hats, Full Dress Shirts, Shields and Neckwear-· Every stitch of clothing you need is getable here for less 1noney than you'll find it anv where else. .,1 SAUL, Cloth,ier of Ma1t, Wotnan and Ch'ild, \Head to 1/'oot, ' ' fi1-fi3 N. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y . 514 FULTON ST., TROY, N.Y. ID Largest l4anufacturers in America I I I I • • • of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. a9 Also dealers in Drawing Instruments, Paper, Tracing Cloth, Prepared Blue Print Pape·r, Colors and Brushes; Pens, Pen- cils, Inks, Rubber, T Squares, Drawing Boards, Triangles, Scales, Stencil Alpha- bets, Pocket Compasses, Magnifiers, Scientific Books, Etc., Etc. . ~A. BRO\ATN & SON,~ F'URNITU:RE AND BEDDING ~ ALL ~NDS ~ FOR ill STUDENTS ill USE. TIIE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. ·~--:-=--, .. -_ -. . . - .. -- -· - _, ... ·=·· -=- -=-- =-=.---:================ P. F. McBREEN R. T. MOIR 5 ==--,--- 218. William St., New York sooKs, FINE 81'AI'IONER1, ·~~ PIGI'URE FRAMING, Err-c. ALWAYS p··'R·~· ···I··N· : ·T·E··· R' .. READY .. , _., .... ·_.. · ... ·. · .. · .. • .· <9HE ... €DISON I)orrtEU, ..c:::i:::= Sch.enectady, N. Y. Ce1ttrally located, and the Large.t;t a1td Best A ppolnted Hqtel hz. the city. Headqtearters for Commercial Travellers and Tourists. CHA8. BROWN, PROPRIEfOR. STEAMSHIP AG:ENCY .•..• 3.'$3 State St., Sche·nectailyt N. Y. HoTEL KEN~v10RE,.~ ·~• •~•~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u•••••••• ou•••••o•u••••••••••••••• ...................... ~ ......................................................................... .. . . LEADING HOTEL . . of ALBANY, N. Y . Strictly First-Class. HEAD~UARTERS FOR UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props. rUNU ;SCI ··,\....; ..... -

The :.r.'tf ~· _, .. ~i ~;, •. t' }:·-.~\')'; ~\~~~~df·'t:-:\W·--~·.~~· -· ( ' f . \, Concordiensis. VoL. XX. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE ~ .... STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. FEBRUARY 27, 1897. No. 20.

2 --ADVERTISEMENTS.- ·uNION COLLEGE AliDBIW V. V. B1YMOND, :D. D., LL.D., President. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. .After ~opho­ mo-re year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot lfa,thematics and English studies is increased. A:fter the Sophomore year a large list of electives is. offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B.-This· differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the Gmission of Greek and tho substitution therefor of additional work in medern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to tlte Degree ofB. E.- This. course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering eduoation, including the fundamental p1~inciples of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanltary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. . 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elee- trieity and its applications, in place of some ·Of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7.. Graduate Course .in Engineering Leading to tbe Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for speeial information address :BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the Colle~e, \'l Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- struetioua by lectures, recitations, laboratOI'Y work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expensea.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $250 ; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, SlO ; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, Jrf, D., Regiekar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at .Albany, near the State Capitol. 1t occupies a building wholly deY'oted to its use. The oaurse is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalog1.1es or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. __ ·-· .. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Ex.ercieet held in .Albany Medical Colle&\e. Annual lecture term commences lfonda.y, Oct. 5. For ea.talogue a.nd informa- tion address DB BAUN V .AN AKEN, Ph. G., ~eeretary, := HamUton St. Jt L B}l. NY~ Art • • • Urtion. {SUCCESSOR TO E. S. STERRY,) 55 NO. PEARL ST., ALBANY, N. Y. New Manage:rnent! New Ideas! New ArUsts ! New Accessories ! New Evertything ! Those who visit the Studio are su1·e to be sur- prised and delighted. NO f\DVf\NCE ~, N PRICES. BONBONS -.AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodak:s, Premos and Photo. Supplies. !he lineot ligar6 and the lure~t oiJ grugo, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. Do You Know • ................................................................................................... u .................... .. ........................................................................................................................ That a good way to secure a position as teacher is to register in the . . • . Albany Teachers' Agency ? ;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-:;z::;:::;::::z;z::::::::::::::.r .. '!.:.::.::.·.:;·;·.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: If not, send for circulars and learn what it can do for you. HARLAN P. FRENCH, 24 State Street. ALBA.NY, N. y.

The Concordiensis - - . . - . . VoL. XX. UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY 27, 1897. No. 20. Dr. lia.Q Dy~e'g Ceeture. The Rev. Dr. Van Dyke of New York ·City delivered a very entertaining lecture on :the b L . St · · \ '' Life and W o1·ks of Ro ert outs · evens on in the college chapel last Friday afternoon. In introducing Dr. Van Dyke to the audience, Dr. Rayn1ond spoke very highly of him as a lecturer and as a writer. Dr. Van Dyke opened his lecture by a brief account of Stevenson's life and his personal characteristics . . Mr. Stevenson was born in Edinburgh, No- vember 13, 185o, and died on one of the Satnoan Islands, December 3, 1894, leaving so-tne of his work unfinished. Stevenson was at heart a wanderer ; and this tendency, together with his ill-health, caused hitn to take many voyages to many lands. He was a ''predestinated writer of books,\ but much as he loved writing he loved living more, and held fast to life with a ''joyful .grim- ness.\ He made l1is first appearance in literature in a little book entitled '' An Inland Voyage,\ an account of a canoe trip. This book was pub- lished in r87g,. but was not particularly noticed at the time. The same year he furnished the text for a book of Etchings of Edinboro. In r879 he brought out \Travels With a Donkey,\ which attracted some genuine applause. The first editions of these books are now quite valuable. From this titne his books followed with rapidity and constantly gained in popularity. Of his most popular works '' Treasure Island\ appeared in x883, \The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and J\fr. Hyde\ in r886, \Kidnapped\ in 1887, \Master of Balantral\ in 1889. He left two unfinished wotks at his death, \ The W ei1· of Hermiston'' and \ St. Ives.\ Stevenson, like all the best men, worked in many lines, and whi1e one phase of his w~rk may have been best, stilt he kept in touch With all aspects of life. Among his favorites in liter- ature he mentions, Haz:lett, Latnb, Wadsworth, Defoe, Dutnas, Hawthorne, and particularly Scott, in whose books he took great delight. But unlike Scott, Stevenson was a type of the uneasy writer, satisfied with nothing but exact precision. His idea was '' to get a con trolling thought and let words and sentences march after it.\ Dr. Van Dyke mentioned two kinds of followers of Stevenson ; the Stevensonians, such as Barrie, Truckett and, to a certain degree, our own Stockton, aU of whose works are character- ized by the ''inevitable unexpectedness in language.\ On the other_ hand we have what Dr. Van Dyke calls the Stevensonianists, whose ear-mark is glaring ,contrasts in titles such as \The Yellow Book,'' etc. Stevenson took great pride in being called a \Teller of Tales.\ He raised the dime novel to the position of classic, and lifted up the story of adventure fro111 tbe low state into which it had fallen. Trul v, in his own stories of adventure, \in cutting., the pages the blood follows the knife.\ Stevenson, unlike Scott,. wrote as an eye wit- ness, while Scott's canvas was larger and broader. But they both loved life and had the same view5 of it. While Stevenson was not a theologian, he believed in God, duty, and immortal love; and he hated meanness with his whole heart. His belief was '' Let the best man win.\ The last months of his own life were spent in efforts to civilize the Samoans and comfort the native captives. In his last prayer, written. the night before he died, he prayed that he mtght '' play the tnan unde~ affiictio~.\ !he ~ast. day of his life was spent 111. consohng his Wife, who seetned to feel a foreboding of some great sor- row; then catne tl1e sudden stroke of un- consciousness.

4 THE CONOORDlENSIS. . ~ew Yor~ State liJ:terGo:lle~iate Ft~letie U'QiOf). CONSTITUTION. ARTICLE I. Name-This organization, shall be known as New York state intercollegiate athletic union. ARTICLE II. Object-· The object of this union shall be the advancement and improvement of amateur sports among the colleges which comprise the union, and the regulation of such sports in the interest of sound scholarship. ARTICLE III. }[em bership-The membership in this union shall be lilnited to colleges of good and regular standing who shall ratify the constitution and by-laws of this union, and comrnunicate official notice of said ratification to the advisory board. ARTICLE IV. Definition--An amateur is & person who has never competed in an open competition, or fo1· money, or under a false name; or with a profes- sional for a prize ; or with a professional where gate money is charged; nor has ever at any time taught, pursued or assisted at athletic exercises for money, or for any valuable consideration. But nothing in this definition shall be construed to prohibit the competition between amateurs for :medals, cups, or other p1·izes than money. And it is hereby expressly declared that this definition is not retroactive. To prevent any misunderstanding in reading the above, the union draws attention to the fol- lowing explanations and adjudications: An a.thlete has forfeited his right to compete as an amateur in any particular branch of athletics ' and has thereby become a professional, by- ( a) Ever having competed in an open competi- tion, i. e., a competition, the entries to which are open to all, irrespective as to whether the com- petitors are amateu1~s or professionals, and whether such competition be for a prize or not, in any athletic exercises, viz. ; Base ball, (b) :Ever having competed for money in any athletic exercise. (c) Ever having co1npeted under a false name in any athletic exercise. (d) Ever having knowingly competed with a professional for a prize, or where gate money is charged, in any athletic exercise. (e) Ever having taught or pursued as a mea,ns of livelihood any athletic exercise. {f) Ever having directly or indirectly accepted or received remuneration for engaging in any athletic exercise. An athlete shall hereafter forfeit his right to compete as an amateur, and shall thereby become a professional, if, at any time after the foregoing definition shall take effect, he shall: (1) Directly or indirectly receive payment for training or coaching any other J>erson in any athletic exercise. (2) Directly or indirectly receive, payment for services personally rendered in teaching any athletic exercise. (3) Directly or indirectly receive payment for services rendered as referee, judge, umpire, scorer, manager, director or in any other capacity at any professional exhibition or contest of any athletic exercise whatsoever .. Note-· Nothing herein shall be construed to pro- hibit the acceptance by any amateur of his neces- sary traveling expenses incurred as referee, judge, umpire, scorer, or starter, in going to and from the place of any amateur contest. (4) Directly or indirectly run, manage or direct, for prospective profit, any professional exhibition or contest. An amateur shall not forfeit his right to compete as an amateur, and shall not becon1e a pro- fessional by (a) Receiving compensation for services ren- dered as ticket taker or ticket seller at any con- test or exhibition or amateur athletics. (b) Receiving compensation for services person- ally rendered as secretary, treasurer, manager or superintendent of any amateur athletic club. (c) Receiving compensation as editor, corres- pondent, or t·eporter of, or contributor to, any sporting, athletic:, or other paper or periodical. (d) Running, managing or directing, for pro_ spective profit, any sporting, athletic, or other paper or periodical. (e) Receiving compensation for services person- ally rendered as official handicapper, unde1· the direction and authority of any arnateu1• athletic association. (f) Receiving from a club of which he shall be a member, the amount of his expenses necessarily incurred in traveling to and from the place of any amateur contest. (g) Nothing in this rule shall be construed so as to consider a man a professional who has played on a college team against a professional team. ARTICLE V. Management-The management of this union shall be entrusted to an advisory board, consist-

TBE CONCORDIENSIS'. ing of three representatives from each college, nan~ely: Oae .student, one alun1nus, and one melllber of the faculty, elected as each college shall deem advisable. The board shall meet tbe first Saturday of October and the first Saturday of March. Special meetings 1nay be held at the call of the president, or at the request of any two colleges. Powers of the Board-(a) Election from it.s own nternbers of its officers~ ~ ho shall be offi.cers of the union. The officers shaH be a president, vice- president, secretary, treasurer and assistant treasurer, elected by a majority vote of the nlmn- bers of the board. The treasurer must be an alumnus. (b) To appoint all field day officers. (c) To control all inter-collegiate finances to the following extent: (1) Assuring pa.yment of all inter-collegiate guarantees when made. A college unable to pla.y a scheduled g.an1e Inust notify the chair1nan of the athletic committee at least two weeks before the date of said gan1e, and shall thereupon be excused. But if a gan1e is cancelled within two weel{s by any college, said college shall file reasons therefo1· with the athletic committee, and if, in the judgment of the athletic committee, the rea- sons rendered are not valid, said college shall be liable to a fine of $100. (2) Collecting all field day gate fees for the use of the union under the direction of the treasurer. (3) Providing for and distributing all inter-col- legiate prizes. (d) To apppoint committees, each comn1ittee, except the judicial comn1ittee, to consist of one representative from each college. and shall be cqmposed of two students, two alumni and two members of the faculties. (1) Judicial comruittee, to consist of one man, who Juust be an alumnus and who shall decide all differences and disputes. (2) Athletic coininittee to arrange, after consul- tation with the respective managers, the time and place of league games in foot ball and baseball, and also time and place of field day n1eets. (3) Financial committee, to audit all accounts. ARTICLE VI. (b) Any college at either of the sen1i-annual Ineetings n1ay honorably withdr~w upon stating its reasons to the advisory board. ARTICLE VIII. Dues-. The meJ.nbet·sbip fee shall be $25. ARTICLE IX. Violation of Rules-Any violation of the rules of the union, proved before the judicial committee, after a full and fair hearing, shall render a college liable to suspension by the p1·esiclent until the next meeting of the advisory board, and to expul- sion by a two-thirds vote pf the 1nembers .of the .advisory board. ARTICLE X. Eligibility-No person shall be allowed to play on any team wllo is not a bona fide student of a college or univei~sity represented on the advisory board. A bona fide student is defined as one pur- suing a regular course leading to a degree, or any regularly entered student taking at least twelve hours per week. Also, no student shall play on any team who has n1ore than two term conditions, unles~ the faculty of his college shall certify to the advisory board that such a n1an is properly qualified to enter the contest~. ARTICLE XI. Limit of Eligibility-A student shall be allowed to co1upete on any tearn four years and no more, no n1atter whether he changes from one college and goes to another or not. This applies to all df~partments, viz.: Medical, law, academical, etc. It shall be understood that a student may com- pete two years in one department or college and then go to another department or college and compete the remaining two, but in no event shall a student compete more than four years. ARTICLE XII. Amendments--Noadditions,alterationoramend- ment shall be made to this constitution at any meeting, except by a two-thirds vote of the mem- bers of the advisory board. At least thirty days notice of any such proposed change must be given to the secretary, of which due notice shall at once be sent to the colleges belonging to this union. Oompensation of Oflicers-N o officer of this union sl1all receive any money for his services. Nathan Beckwith, '94, is visiting friends in the city. ARTICLE VII. Application and Withdrawal-(a) Any college desiring to join the union shall send to the secre- tary an application for membership in writing; said application may be submitted to the union at any of its meetings. Endeavor day was celebrated by theY. P. S. C. E. of the East Avenue Presbvterian Church o/ last Sunday evening. Addresses were made by Rev. Mr. Waygood, Blodgett, '97, Fisher, '98, Tho1nas, '98, and Wright, ;99·

6 THE OONCORDIENSJIS. THE CONC:QRDTENSIS. PUBLISHED EV:ERY WREK DURING THl~ COLI.\EGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS;~ F. P A.CKARD PALMER. '97, Editor-in-Chief. Exnv A.RD E. DRAPER, '97, - Business Manager. 1-IIR.A.M: C. 'fonD, '97, Lit.erary Editor. CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Asst. Bas. Manager. CARL HAM:MER, '98, } WILLIAM~· REE,D, '98, .. Assistant .Editoi~S. J>. P. SHEEHAN, 98, LEROY 'r. BRADFORD '99, ) F. RoY CHAMPION, '99, l Beportorial Staff. GEORGE G. ROWELL, '99, ~ GEORGE H. FISH, '99, - Albany Medical College. TERMS: CONCORDIENSIS, - $2.00 per Yeat•; in Advance. :Single Copies, 10 Cents. J> A.RTHENON, - $1. 00 per Yea:r in Advance. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year in Ad- vance. Address all communications to TH:E Co:rscoRDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, :N. Y. Subscribers are requested to n1a\ke checks pay- able to Ed ward E. Draper, Business Manage1'. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENEO'&ADY, N.Y. ELSEWHERE in this paper is a letter addressed to. Dr.. C. P . Linhart. It is self e:xplanatory. In behalf of the student body, we wish. to thank Mr. Dillingham for his generous offe1·. WE WISH to call the attention ()f every student to the new constitution which has recently been drafted by the delegates, representing the New York State Inter-Collegiate Union. Early next week, this question will be brought 1!1. :p in a special ~ollege meeting for consideration. It is therefot·e necessary that every student should familiarize himself with the proposed constitution, so that he may discuss it intelligently. If Union is to enter an athletic league in the State of New York, it will be necessary for her to acquiesce to the new ·constitution, or to petition for such. amendments, as appear to the student body most desirable. EvERY student in college has doubtless observed the work that has been in progress in the library ·during the past ten days. The screens -which have been placed before the book shelves at·e not orna- n1ental. It is to be hoped that they may prove useful even though the necessity which compels their use is a disgrace to this institution. The library connnittee, however, is cotn pe lled to re- cognize the fact that there are thieves in the coUege. T'vo students who have recently taken books f:ron1 the library are known. Their actions cast upon tbe1n the gravest suspicions. W,e do not think that their n1otive was theft; it does, l1oweYer, show them to be supremely selfish if not· actually dishonest. OWING to the fact that the Sopho1uore Soiree occurred on Friday evening and that the CoN· CORDIENSIS is issued Saturday it was impossible to print, in the last number, a very extended ftC· count of that event. We are pleased to be able to state tl1at the dance was a glorious success. There was but one factor which tended to 1nar the pleasure of the evening, The floor, as usual, was bad. Mr. Benedict, as he has done ma.ny tirnes befoTe, assured the committee that the inequalities at the juncture of the stage with the floor over the orchestra pit would be remedied. Mr. :Bene- dict may have endeavored t.o rem.edy this evil. We are lead to believe, however, that his interest was half-hearted to say the least, as any one with a little ingenuity, could, with a trifling expense, ha. ve placed the floor in such a condition as would have satisfied everyone. 1\fr. Bonesteel, as chairman of the committee, labored earnestly for the success of the dance. He deserves to be congratulated. persoQals. Ames, '97, is seriously ill with typhoid fever at his ho1ne in Glens Falls. A large nutuber of the students took ad- vantage of the recess, Monday, and spent the vacation at their homes. D. B. Eldredge, '95, professor at the Alta- mont school was in the city Feb. 20. Prof. McKenzie read a papet on \Petrach one of the early Italian authors, before the society to · protuote useful reading, Saturday 9 Feb. 20.

'rHE CONC'ORDIENSIS. 7 TlJe f{\usical \lubs. The Glee, Banjo and Mandolin clubs have added two tnore successful concerts to their record for the season of '97. Tuesday evening they appeared in Troy, under the auspices of the Universalist church. The concert was ~given in the auditoriutn of the church, which was well filled by a refined and appreciative .audience, who again and again recalled the musicia;ns by their enthusiastic applause. After .the concert, the tnembers of the clubs wet·e tendered a reception in the church parlors by ' the ladies of the church. HARV.ARP-YALE-COR.NELL BOAT RACE. The negotiations for peace between Harvard and Yale have proved successful and a triangular race at Poughkeepsie, on the Hudson, has practically been arranged.---B·rown and Whz'te. Mr. Samuel I--1. Howe, of Boston, has pur- chased \Lo.ngfellow's Inn\ at Sudbury, Mass., and will convert it into a permanent memorial of the poet, restoring it as nearly as possible to the condition It was in when Longfellow wrote the Tales. Mr. Howe is a descendant of the original owtlers of the Inn. The question for the Yale-Harvard debate is The second concert was given at the River- :-side club, Lansingburgh, Thursday evening; before a stylish and representative audience.. Everyone was lavish in praise of the tnusical :ability of Union College students,. and many times during the dance, which follo-vved the con- ·cert, the remark was heard that it was the best ·>Concert ever given by college n1usical clubs in this section of the country. ., as follovvs: Resolved, That the United States should a·dopt definitely the single gold standard and should decline to enter a bimetallic league, even if Gl-eat Britain, Germany and France should be willing to enter the league. Harvard had the choice of question and Yale the choice of sides. At each of these concerts the Glee club sang with its usual style and finish, which has been gained by careful leadership and close attention to work. The Mandolin and Banjo clubs ·showed tnarked itnprovetnent in their rendition over that at the opening of the season and divi- ded the honors about equally. JYir. Cook, in his humorous readings and itnpersonations, was ·exceptionally well received and is especially deserving of credit, not only for his success as an elect~tionist, but also for his work in the Mandolin and Banjo clubs. 'olleqe f'lot~s. 'I'he I.Cansas College Presidents' Association ·has, without a dissenting vote, adopted reso- lutions con_demning foot ball.- The Student. President Eliot of Harv~rd has offered to Secretary Olney the international law professor- -ship of that institution. Mr. Olney is consider- ing the favor and provided it does not int~rfere with his regular practice, which he is unwilling to give up, he hopes to accept.- rate Alumn-i . Weekly. Representatives frotn the University of Mich- igan, the University of Wisconsin, Northwestern University and the University of Chicago re- cent} y met in Chicago and completed arrange- rnents for a debating league, to exist for six years. A ca:sl1 prize of $zoo has been estab- lished, $1oo going to the best debator on either side in the final contest. A PAINTER'S BILL. A French. scene-painter who had been em- ployed to touch up the old paintings of an old church in Belgiutn, was refused paytnent until he had rendered his bill of particulars. Accord- ingly, after going over his work in the most conscienti<Jus manner, he sent the following bill. FRANCS. Corrected the Ten Commandments. • • • • • 5. I 2 Replum ed and gilded the left foot of the guardian angel. • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • . . • • 4· I8 Renewed heaven, adjusted the stars and cleaned the moon. • • • • • . . • • • • • • . • • • • . 7. I 5 Reanimated the flames of purgatory and restored souls. • • • • . • • • • . • • . • • • • . . • • • 3.06 Revived the flames of hell., put a tail on the devil, mended his left hoof, and did several jobs for the damned. . • • • • . • • • • 3.02 Cleaned the ears of Balaam's ass, and shod him •.•..•.•••••••••••••.••.•••.•••••••• 3.02 Mended th.e shirt of the prodigal son and cleaned bis ears • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4.00 -:-Ex.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. A notice in a Boston paper of Thurday stated that the electoral vote for the various candidates for the presidency has been formally cast by the electors at Washington. The account went on to say that one elector presented credentials in which he spelled the name of the state he partly represented, New Brasky. This is not only outrageous, it is ridiculous. It is a fact to be deplored that tnen are chosen to represent cotn- munities supposedly educated, who cannot spell the natne of the state they represent. We men who are enjoying the advantages of education at Exeter, cannot but realize that there is a place in the world for their best efforts. What our nation needs as tnuch as anything is education. -Edltorial from the Exonlatt. SPECIAL MEETING OF THE INTER-COLLEGIATE TRACK ASSOCIATION. An important meeting of the Inter-collegiate Track Athletic Association has been called to take place in New York, February 27. Many vital changes are proposed in the plans for the annual games for the corning year. A formal atnendtnent to the constitution of the organiza- tion has been proposed, taking the management of the annual garn.e.s out o:f the hands of the graduates and putting it exclusively in charge .of undergraduates of the various institutions in- terested. This is sure to be vigorously opposed by several colleges. An atnendm,ent is proposed to exclude the tnile walk. This, it is claimed, is to save an exhibition of what many physicians con5ider· brutality, as every mile walker is now so- exhausted on the completion of the walk that his muscles are partially paralyzed after tHe finish. There is also a plan on foot to aba11don the present scheme of having one or two bicycle events, and instead have a separate bicycle meet. Harvard is quoted as decidedly in favor of thi& plan. It is probable, however, that a separate cycling championship will be hereafter awarded. · Pennsylvania will present an invitation to have the annual gatnes held in Philadelphia, instead of New York. This is regarded with favor at Yale, as the gatnes fail to draw a big crowd in New York, and they would be sure of an en- couraging reception in Philadelphia. Pennsyl- vania will offer the use of Franklin Field free of charge. This, in itself, would be a saving of several thousand dollars to the Association. It is not believed that there will be any serious op- position to this schet11e.- The Pennsylvanian .. Webber's Central Pharmacy. :a:a .:r. ~·.~ \:7GE:::Ee~ . ........................................................................................................................... ................................................................... . -•••••••••••u•••••••••••••• .. ••••u••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••,.••••••••••••••••••••••••••-•••••••••••,.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• NEW 81'0RE. NEW GOODS. Smokers a,re invited to call and inspect the Finest I.Jine of Meerschaum and Briar Pipes in the city. All new and of the latest style; also a fine line of Irnported and Domestic Cigars. PRESCRIPTION WORK A SPECIALTY. Oo1''. State St. and the Rail Road. ~AR\f18T'IG PARISIANIE Dry and Steam Cleaning and Dyeing Works JACOB RINDP'LEIS(JH, P1·op. CLEANS, DYES AND REPAIRS GENTS' OLO'.t'RING. Shine removed from all garments. First-class work guar- anteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge, to any part of the city. 18 CENTRAL ARCADE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Alterations and repairing a. specialty. Open until 9 P. M. Work done at short notice. (Wanamaker & Brown) FINE CLOTHING. ••••• DON'T BELIEVE • • • exaggerated statements made in advertise- ments-everyone claiming superiority. There are· only two thh1gs that create LEADERSHIP. First, ripened experience; second, sufficient ot.ttlet to- purchase larger quantities than any other establish- ment in the same line. \\VAN Al\-fAKER & BROWN, of Philadelphia answer to this, having 34 years experie:rJce, controlling the best buyers~ and supplying the largest trade in America. WE REPRESENI' I'HE LEADER, --304 ST.A.TE STREET.--- Two doors above the CanaL-When you're down DROP IN. w=The trade of the students and alumni is especially solicited.

--.ADVERtriSEMENTS.___..... fHl~Q J. DirliQQI]am, '88; Offers a priz~. For the last few years it has been customary to tnake a physical examination of each Fresh- man during his first term. All his rneasure- tnents are taken, together with his lifting and lung power, and an anthropometric chart is made out cornparing his tneasuretnents with the . average. This year Dr. Linhart has been pre- scribing different kinds of gyn1nastic work to the tnen deficient in any part, with a view to overcoming that deficiency. Allen J. Dilling- . ham, '88, one .of the n1ost protninent of the , local alumni and a member of the athletic hoard, has made the following generous offer which will be highly appreciated by the students : SCHENECTADY, N. Y., February 25, '97. DR. c. P. LINHART, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEAR SIR :-I have been much interested of late in the new method of physical culture you have 1~5~5 ~ ~ti4HR\INI#ill'll~INI5 ..,. ~ and other cut flowers \ constantly on hand. • . • • ...._ GRUPE, The Florist, 125 WALL STREET, (opp. P. 0.) UNDER EDISON HOTEL. U1'1Gf\, N.Y. II HIGH GRADE SHOES II -AT LOWEST PRICES.- ~~f?.:~~~~~-~t. P.A.TTON & IIA-LL. instituted at Union College. I know you must have been employing your present system for a long time, but not till quite recently have I be~ co1ne aware of just what you were doing. Possibly I ;ruore fully appreciate thfl systernatized way you ptocet-d to develop the individual sttHlent, phyRi- cally, from the fact of l{nowing the lftck of any- thing of its kind when I was in college. I have thoug-ht thut possibly, if a further ilb centive to the general physical developnwnt wete offered, it would increase the students interest in the work. I therefore offer to the student making the best average percentage of gain at the end of the college year, a gold meda.l of the value of twenty dollars. You may 1nake this offer known to tl1ose con- testing for it as you 111ay see fit. Sincerely yours, A. J. DILLINGHAM. Post Master General 'Vilson has accepted the presidency of Washington and Lee University at Lexington, Va. He will enter upon his duties as president about July r. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTIIING CO., ... THE LEADING ... ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS . 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. .A. G. HERRICK. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get tny prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. C. E. BOTHAM, 214 CLINTON STREET.

1(} ~ilpatrie·~ To Be a professioQal. A rutnor is afloat that Charles Kilpatrick has decided to leave the a1nateur ranks and join the professionals, a dispatch to that effect having been sent out from Worcester, Mass., where he competed last JVJonday evening at the gatnes of the Holy Cross College Athletic Association in a Iooo-yds. match race against A.llie Reming;.. ton of theN. Y. A. C. The New York Herald of Feb. zo, stated, that races have been arranged between Kil- patrick and Bredin, the English half-mile champion. The first race between the two will be for 6oo-yds. and will take place in England. The second will take place in Ireland for a distance of 88o-yds., and the third will be held in Scotland for a distance of Iooo-yds. There will he 100 pounds a side on each race. After these races Kilpatrick expects to return to Princeton and finish his college course. l{ilpatrick holds the world's amateur record for one-half mile at 1 min .. 53 2-5 sec .. , made by him in New York a year ago last September. For two years he has held the American championship for that distance. Bredin, the English champion, against whom he intends to compete, has a quarter-mile record of 48 ~ seconds, and has only recently joined the~professional ranks. T HE FISK TEACHERS' ACENCIES, 4: Ash burton Place, Boston; 70 Fifth A. venue, N. Y.; 355 Wabash .Aventte, Chicago; 25 King Street, West,. Toronto; 1242 Twelfth Street, Washington, D. 0.; 525 Stimson Block, Los Angeles; 414 Century Buildin~, Minueapolis, Minn.; 107 Keith & Perry Building, Kansas City, Mo.; 728 Cooper Building, Den- . ver, Col. Agency Manual Free. EVERETT 0. FISK & Co. ~.111\f!'YTE ~ TJE1lE]'!FEel(, a-- wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}!L ai]d W00B Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers. 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock St •• Schenectady, N.Y. ~l.f}lYLE .& SON, ~ '-.§) ® BlQRAVERS, ® ,... ...... _____ f\LBANY, N. Y. The largest and finest ._ .A \tl· i'R·DM. J'i .. · ·CT ~ ..... line of cigars and v n n n - - sm.Qkers' sup- pliesinthe 129 Wall St., opp. P. 0. city. BON BON8 AND GH080LA'TE8. At .. THOMAS,. Music SToRE 0 w {f) w w 0 No. 1'5 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the 'V ASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ......- •• --._THOMAS HAS THE BEST. --~--THE----- }ElDINEi ®~INTER. ([~as. nurrows, 332 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N, Y. Printing, Ruling, Binding, &c. L.A. YOUNG. 0 GEORGE S. FOX L.A. YOUNG & CO. HEADQUARTERS FOR EVERYTHING IN THE MUSICAL LINE. PIAN OS 'rO RENT. The Oldest HouRe in the State. The Largest Dealers in the City. Sole .Agents for WASHBURN'S goods, and Headquarters for everything in the line of music. 254: STATE STREET, - SCHENECTADY, N. Y,

-..A.DVERTISE:MHNTS.- 11 5ASE. B~LL I Supplies. :Spalding League 13all, lfits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Sum1ner Sports free. ''The Nan1e the Guarantee.\ A . G s·P\LD~N~ & a· R· OS New York.,~chicago, • . • · K I • U · · · •. , Ph1la. 811 State, Cor. Wall StTeet. GENTLEMEN :- You are all invited to see our stock of Fall and Winter goods before buying . ..A.. OUR FOOT-'NARE WILL OUT-WEAR ~ANY FOOT-WARE SOLD ELSE-WHERE. Our stock is complete, and we handle notbing but First- Class-Made Shoes-Price from $2.00 up. The latest style \\Vin- ter Russet we will sell at $2.98, and Winter Enamel at $3.48, can't be beat. QUIR'I'S--Largest and Leading Shoe Store, 311 State, Cor. Wall Street. New York University Law School. Confers LL. B., also (for graduate courses) LL. M. Day and Evening Sessions .. ~·uition Fee, $100. No Incidental Fee. Sixty-second year begins October 1st, 1896. For catalogue, address REGISTRAR University. \Vashington Square, New York City. fi. c. AUSTIN ENGRAVING co., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers~ Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusoohrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. tfNI0N eOLLE6E B®OK EX€Ji}lN6-E. All College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college supplies. MRs. A. BuRcH . • • • ~ =============== =============== s~. RESTAURANT RESTAURANT ~~ 12 CENTRAL ARCADE. *** . , . Boston Baked Beans a Specialty. JOHN T. JOHNSON, Fashiortable and Popular Tailor. No •. 351\Iaiden Lane, Albany, JS. Y. SUITS FR·O.M $18.00 UP. PANTS $4.00 AND UPWARD. L. T. CLUTE,_-==~ HATTER AND FURRIER. Also, Trru'ltks, Bags, Su,it Cases, Gloves, Vnlbt•ellas, Ca11Jes, Etc. 227 S'i A'fE S'iR EET\. ============ --====----~- JUST RECEIVED Direct from London, England, a Very Select Line of Suiting and Trowser- ings for Spring and Summer. Dress Suits a Specialty, at C. GBETZ'S, ... TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT, Call early and see thern. 3 CENTRAL ARCADE.

. ·., .. 12 -A.DVERTlSEMENTS.-- THE o·O:R~REOT ......-auu:eaw. • ... HATS for SPRING --== •.. m:aJU&W&LU!IA wisz: iSE . m W. tc L. E. CURL·EY, 514 FULTON ST.;. TROY, N. Y, There isn't a hat goodness 1nissing. ·~ There isn't too much to pay for the finest hat we shovv. La.rgest lvlanufacturers tn .A.merica I I I· I Spring styles are hei~e-. all the 'VANT- ABLE styles. We've tl1e exclusive sale of so1ne of the ''smartest\ shapes-and we've ex- clusive prices on ALL sb.apes. Now here else will you find such worthy hats for so little 1noney. SAUL, 0Zoth'ie1' (){ JCan, JVomnn ana Child, '~Fread to Foot,\ B1-53 N. Pearl St., ALBAi1Y, .lt Y. I I I of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruments, Paper, Tracing Cloth,. Prepared Blue Print Paper, Colors and Brushes, Pens, Pen- cils, Inks, Rubber, T Squares, Drawing Boards, Triangles, Scales, Stencil Alpha- bets, Pocket Compasses, Magnifiers, Scientific Books, Etc., Etc. ~A. Bf)(_O-wN & SON,~ FURNITURE IHD BEDDING ~ ALL~NDS ~.FOR@ STUDENTS @ USE. TilE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. - P. F. McBREEN 218 William St., New York ALWAYS ·pR~ ·I.NTER READY • · . . · . <9HE ... €DISON f)OJilEU, .L:::::::.==--Scheneotady, N. Y. Cettt1~ally located, and the Largest and Best A ppolnted Hotel t'n the city. • Headquarters for Commerct'al Travellers a1z.d Tourists. GH F\8. BROWN, PROPRI E'TOR. R. T. MOIR, ~.~·~===­ BOOKS, FINE Si'Ar'IONERY, PIGrrURE FRAMING, Era . S'.rEAMSHIP AGENCY .•..• 883 State St., Scheneotad.y, N. Y. HoTEL KENMORE,~ ............................................................................ - ............. . ............................................................................................... .. LEADING HOTEL .. of ALBANY, N. Y . Strictly Fi rst-Ciass. HEAD.fS<UARTERS FOR UNION MEN. H. J. ROCKWELL & SON, Props. .r'ffi.u·-l l . l ; .

