The oncordiensis. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. NOVEMBER 6, 1897. No. 7.

-ADVERTISEMENTS .............._ UNION COLLEGE AmiiW V, V.llntOND, D. D,, X.L. D., ierelident. UNION· COLLEGE, SCHENECTA:DY,N.Y. l. CJ~urse Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more· year the work is largely elective. 2. ~burse Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The moder}l la:ng.nages a:re substituted for the ancient and the amount ol Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the SophomorE year a lar~e list of electives is off~red. 3. CJo.u:rse Leading to the Degree of Ph. B.--This diffeps .from the A. B. course chiefly in the omisc:;ion of Greek and the ,eubstitution therefor of additional work in: modern languages and !eience. 4:. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This courBe is intended to ~ive the basis of an Engineering edue~tion 9 including the fundamental principles of all .specia:l branohe~ <ilf the profession, a knowledge of both French and Germ~ a.nd,a. full course in English. l). SR.-nlta-ry Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. :Eteetrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs.f-rom Course -4: in substituting special work in Elee- tricity 8-nd its applications, in place of some of the General Engineel.'ing studies. This course is .offered in co-operation with the .Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading te ,the Degree o1C. :E.-.A course of one year offered to graduate1 of Course 4:, 5 OJ.' 'G. '!'here: are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, HetallurfY a.nd Nat ural History. For catalogues or for speeiaJ · informa.t](>n address BBN\J.AMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. A.lbam:r ::Hedical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in SeJ)tember. Three years strictly gra.ded course. In- ~trnetiO'Ill by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and pra.ctica.l demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. · Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; J)erpetua.l ticket, $250.; graduation fee, $25; dissectinK fee, $10.; labor.a.tory course, each, $10. For circular address WlLLlS ·G. TUCKER, lf. D., Registrar, .Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A.lbaD.y Law Sehool.-This department b~ located at Albany 2 near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devotea to it1 use. ThG oourse is one year, divided into two 1emestezs .. E:xpense11.-Ma.triculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For eatal<>g!Jetl!l or other information, address J. NE'W~ON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, .Alba,ny, If .. T. ~LBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ::Bxereuea held in .Albany :Hedie&l College. Annual lecture term eGmnences Monday, Oct. 5. J'or catalogue and informa- tloll a.dcbMI DB B.AUN V .AN A.X:EN, Ph. G •• ~eeretary, ~ Hamilton St. Gentleme11 • • • Buy Your ·Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and n1ost modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 S'l,ATE ST~, COR. WALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.,, BO'N BONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe lineot §igar~ and the 1.ureot oft Urugo AT LYON'S DR·UG STORE, 335 ST.ATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9HE ... €DISON r)OTllEL, --.....--Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, a1td t!te Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in t!u ct\ty. Headquarters for Commercial Travellers and Tourz\sts 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIETOR. r w~ de el~ w fit Ol th sc al g~ w c~ h· a1 n o: h 0 tl h l v :E ( ,

2 -ADVERTISEMENTS --------- UNION COLLEGE AlmBIW V, V. BAYKO:ND,. D. D., r.L, .D., Preaident. UNI·ON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual . Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. s.~The modern . languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot. Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B.-This • differs from the A.. B. course chiefly in the omission of 'Greek and the eubstitution therefor of additienal work in modern languages and science. 4:. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering edueation, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and · German, a.nd a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree ·Of B. E.- This di:tfers from Course 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course -4: in substituting special work in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. \1. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading te the :;Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of . Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, lfetallur~ and Nat ural History. For catalogues or for speeial informat10n address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years. strictly graded eourse. In- etruetions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $250.; graduation fee, $25 ; dissectin\ fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, H. D., Re~istrat·, Albany, X. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A.lbany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany 2 near the State Capitol. It occupies a.. building wholly deTotea to its use. The course is one year, divided into two •em esters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For cataloguers or other information, ~ddress J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, It. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. BxereiiJea held in Albany 11edic&l College. Annual l~ture term commences Konda.y, Oot. 5. :J'or catalogue and informa.- tioa. add.ree• DB B.AUN VAN A.KBN, Ph. G., Secretary. ~ Ha.milto11 St. 'Gentlemell • • • Buy Your ·Shoes at Q.UI~I'S. The largest and most modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 S''l'AT.E ST., COR. WALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' :==================== BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe llne~t ligar6 and the lureot o~ Drug~ AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9HE ... €DISON I)OJI1EL, ......... ...... -Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally locatetl, a1zd the LaY!fest ana Btst .Appointed Hotel ln the city. Headquarters for Commercial Travellers and Tourz'sts GHAS. BROWN, PROPRIETOR. I w de el w fi 01 tl S< a. a r 0 tl 0 f l l ' ] t ' \.

The CoJlcordieJlsis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, NOVEMBER 5, 1897. No. 1. Uf)iOf) Defeats ~ut~er5. A large delegation of students and Dorpians went to Albany last Saturday and witnessed the defeat of the team from Rutgers by the Union eleven. The game was a pretty one although there was scarcely any doubt from the kick-off to the final caH of tim,e but what Rutgers was ·badly outclassed. The Rutgers men played hard but they were either overtrained or undertrained, sQme one of their players being disabled in almost every play. To those who watched the game the only surprise was in that the score was not larger than ro to o. By a little more care on the part of the 'Varsity a decidedly higher score could have easily been made. As an instance of this Captain Crichton's splendid run of 90 yards was annulled by a needless bit of holding. Time and again excellent oppor- tunities for other long runs were spoiled by lack of proper interference. Altogether the game was played by the backs, the Union line having little difficulty in making holes for them through the J erseymen. For Union, Captain Crichton and Mallory did star work. The mainstay of Rutgers was Captain Ryno. The weather was just right for the game although a trifle chilly for the spectators. Owing to frequent calls of time the contest lasted fron1 3 =35 to 5 :zo. Union won the toss and chose the north goal. Guthrie kicked off to the zo-yard line and Hoxie caught the ball on a run. He ran five yards, when he was dropped by Mann. Short gains by Crichton, Poole, Wilson, Messn1er and Mallory brought the ball to the 4o-yard line, where it was lost on a fumble. Mann fumbled on the line up, but Guthrie saved the ball by falling on it. Rutgers could not gain, and on the third down Guthrie punted for 20 yards, Hoxie catching the ball, but was downed in his tracks by Rutgers' ends. Gains by Mallory, Crichton, Poole, Wilson, Weed and Messmer soon brought the ball within two yards of Rut- gers' goal and Mallory smashed through right tackle for a touchdown seven minutes after time was called. Hoxie missed the goal. Score, 4 too. Guthrie again kicked off and the ball was caught by Hoxie, who ran for 30 yards without any interference through the entire Rutgers team. There is no question hut that if his inter- ference would have fonned more promptly he could have scored a touchdown. A moment later Rutgers secured the ball on an off-side play on her 45-yard line. After a loss of nine yards on a fu1nble, Ryno took the ball forward for 1 I yards through Union's tackle. After another gain of 3 yards Rutgers had to surrender the ball on downs. Union was un- able to advance it the necessary five yards and Rutgers secured possession. Gains by Ryno, Oram, Pettit and Patterson netted Rutgers I 2 yards of U nion'.s territory. A consultation was held and Guthrie dropped back to trv for a goal from the field. It proved too tnuch for him though. What effort he did make was spoiled by Poole, and Hoxie got the ball on Union's r6-yard line. Then followed Captain Crichton's sensational run. He forced his way through Rutgers' tackle and with Mallory at his side plunged through all opponents the length of the field. The bail was called back however for holding and time was called before it could be put in play. In the second half Rutgers played a little better than in the first. Hoxie kicked off, Guthrie catching the oval. He was only able to run three yards before he was downed by Weed. Oran1 was inju1·ed and Cuddleback took his place. Rutgers could not gain and Guthrie punted on the third down for 25 yards.

The Co11cordie11sis VoL. XXI. UNI'ON COLLEGE, NOVEMBER 5, .1897. A large delegation of students and [lorpians • went to Albany last Saturday and witnessed the defeat of the team from Rutgers by the Union · eleven. The game was a pretty one although there was scarcely any doubt from the kick-off to the final call ·of time but what Rutgers was ·badly outclassed. The Rutgers men played l1ard but they were either overtrained or under:trained, some one of their players being disabled in almost every play. To those who watched the · game the only surprise was in that the score · was not larger than 10 to o. By a little more , care on the part of the 'Varsity a decidedly higher score could have easily been made. As an instance of this Captain Crichton's splendid run of 90 yards was annulled by a needless bit of holding. Time and again excellent oppor- . tunities for other long runs we11e spoiled by lack of proper interference. Altogether the game was played by the backs, the Union line having little difficulty in making holes for them through the Jerseytnen. For U pion, Captain Crichton and Mallo1-y did star work. The mainstay of Rutgers was Captain Ryno. The weather was just right for the game although a trifle chilly for the spectators. Owing to frequent calls of time the contest lasted from 3 =35 to 5 :zo. Union won the toss and chose the north goal. Guthrie kicked off to the zo-yard line and Hoxie caught the ball on a run. He ran five yards, when he \vas dropped by Mann. Short gains by Crichton, Poole, Wilson, Messn1er and Mallory brought the ball to the 40-:Yard line, where it was lost on a fumbie. Mann fumbled on the line up, but Guthrie saved th.e ball by falling on it. Rutgers could not gain, and on the third down Guthrie punted for zo yards, Hoxie catching the ball, but was downed in his tracks by Rutgers' ends. Gains by Mallory, Crichton, Poole, Wilson., Weed and Messtner soon brought the ban within two yards of Rut- gers' goal and Mallory smashed through right tackle for a touchdown seven minutes after time was caUed. Hoxie missed the .goal. Score, 4 too. Guthrie again kicked off and the ball was caught by Hoxie, who ran for 30 yards without any inter:fet~ence through the entire Rutgers team. There is no question but that if his inter- ference 'vould have fanned more promptly he could have scored a touchdown. A mom:ent later Rutgers secured the ball on an off-side play on her 45-yard line. After a loss of nine yards on a fu1nble, Ryno took the ball forward for 1 I yards through Union's tackle. After another gain of 3 yards Rutgers had to surrender the ball on downs. Union was un- able to advance it the necessary five yards and Rutgers secured possession. Gain~ by Ryno, Oram, Pettit and Patterson netted Rutgers 12 yards of Union's territory. A consultation was held and Guthrie dropped back to try for a goal from the field. It proved too tnuch for him though. What effort he did make was spoiled by Poole, and Hoxie got the ball on Union's 16-yard line. Then followed Captain Crichton's se-nsational run. He forced his way through Rutgers' tackle and with Mallory at his side plunged through all opponents the length of the field. The ball was called back however for holding and time was called before it could be pat in play. In the second half Rutgers played a little better than in the first. Hoxie kicked off, Guthrie catching the oval. He wa& ()nly able to run tl1ree yards before he was downed by Weed. Oram was injured and Cuddleback took his place. Rutgers could not gain and Guthrie punted on the third down for 25 yards.

4 'l'HE OONCORDIENSIS. Hoxie got the ball, bt:d ,could no't advance it. Union fumbled and Mann feB on the ball. Five yards was too much £or Rutger:s to gain in four \ There are a few striking facts about the downs and Guthrie pun~ted. It went sideways sm·all A.merican 'CoUege. One .striking fact is and went out of bounds, rolling under the ropes. . that sixty per cent. of the brainiest An1:ericans Crichton made seven. yaxds through tackle on . who have risen to prominence and success are the line-up and foHow-,ed this up by going · graduates of colleges whose names are scarcely through the same place fo·r a touchdown after a known outside of their own states. It is a fact, run of 35 yards. Hoxie kicked a difficult goal. also, that during the past ten years the majority Score, ro too. of the new and best methods of learning have The ball see-sawed about the field during the· emanated from the smaller colleges, and have remainder of the gan.1e. Rutgers had it oftener been adopted later by the larger ones. Because although Union's goal was not in danger at any a college happens to be unknown two hundred time. When time was called Union had the miles from the place of iti location does not ball near the center of the ne~1d. The line-up always mean that the college is not worthy of was as follows : wider repute. The fact cannot be disputed that UNION, 10. RUTGERS, 0. the most direct teaching and necessarily the Messmer ............. le:ft end .......... · · · Ralpalje teaching most productive of good results is Wilson.··········· .left~tackle .. ···· .. Van Winkle being done in the smaller American colleges. Closs ............... left gaard ........... McMahon Tl f th II b r. ·1· 1e names o · ese co eges n1ay not e .~:ami 1ar Bookhout ............ cel!l.tre •.•.•...•.•.. Wood1·uff Th · h+ d p tt to the majo·rity of people, but that tnakes them · omas ............ rig· <o guar .........• · a erson Poole .............. right tackle ............ Decker none the less worthy places of learning. The W~ed.... . ......... 1~igl!Lt. end .............. Pettit larger colie.ges are unquestionably good, but Smith ............. quarter hack .. • ..... · .. ·.Mann there are smaller colleges just as good, and in j Oram b S 1 fi Mallory ........... leftha.Jf back . . . t Cuddle back some respects, etter. orne of t 1e · nest edu- c bt 1- 1 b k R cators we have are attached to the faculties of · richton ......... rig · 11.a f ac . . . . . . . . . . . . yno Hoxie ............... fuJI back ...•.......• Guthrie the smaller institutions of learning. Young Touchdowns-Mallor-y~ Crichton. Goals from girls or young men who are being educated at touchdowns-Hoxie. Re:feree-F~ Dru.ry, Rutgers. one of .the smaller colleges need never feel that Umpire-Mr. Palmer, Co1·nell, '95. Linesmen- the fact of the college being a s·mall one places C. J. Vrooman, Union; lt. :B. Farsons, Rutgers. h d' d · · · h h Time of game-two 2 o-min-ute ha;fves. t ·em at a tsa. vantage tn companson Wit t e friend or companion who has been sent to a Tl]~ Debati Q~ Soe:i,eties. \The Adelphics debated at theiT regular meet- ing last Friday, the £oUowing subject: \Re- solved, That the Inde:pendent Nomination for Mayor of New York city is n1ore worthy than any other.\ Winterberg~ rgoo; H. B. Jones, 1900, and Swann, '98, supported the affirma- tive, and Reilly, 1900 ; Hubbard, rgoo, and Cullen, '98 the negative. ·At the n1eeting of the PhHomathean's last Wednesday night the q_ uestion of a property qualification for voters was discussed, Wright, '99, and Fisher, '99, to()k the affirmative, and Mabon, '98, and Hegeq1an, '99, supported the negative. larger and better known college ; it is not the college, it is the student.\-Enw. W. BoK. fraterQity lQitiates. The following fraternities have initiated as follows: BETA THETA PI. John McNab, . . Charles J. Bennett, . Wellington E. Wormer, CHI PSI. Horatio J. Brown, Arthur S. Golden, . Louis C. Kuker, KAPPA ALPHA. • Troy Amsterdatn Middleburg . Schenectady Rensselaerville Florence, S. C. John E. Parker, Charleston, S. C. Harry Mareness, Jr., . Albany

THE. OONCORDIENSIS. 5 Union then continued hard steady plays for U·QiOQ, 6 ; l,@H.lreate, 0. short gains and at last Crichton took the ball for a good gain of 10 yards. The great featut·e of Wednesday afternoon, Nov. 3; saw one of the the garne followed. /Capt. Crichton took the ball finest football ·games and one of the m.ost com- past every Laureate man and by a lop.g run plete Union victories ever recorded on the col- · placed it safely back of the .goal. lege catnpus. Only two weeks ago Union lost Hoxie made a deliberate kick and the ball to the Lauteate at Troy by a score of 16 to o, . literally rolled over the centre of the bar, atnid but things are now reversed and Union is the prolonged applause. victor by a score of 6 to o. The Laureates n1:ade a low poor kick and The game '\vas characterized by fair and Messmer advanced ro yards to the 40 yard line. friendly playing on both sides and not an ob- I Union followed by steady gains and a 25 yard jectionable :feature was seen at any titne .. ~he run by Crichton. Laureate got the ball and Laureates are much heavier than the Union made short gains which were blocked by Closs. men and are also quick, nevertheless the game . Union got the baH and Crichton walked over was almost entil·ely played in the boatn 1 en's the boatmen for 1 o yards. Tirne was called territory. . I with the score 6 to o in Union's favor. The features of the .game were the long hard The second half opened with a kick off to the runs of Capt. Cri.chton, the fearless bucking .of 5 yard line by Laureate. Hoxie returned the Mallory and the handsome .punts by Hoxie. ball 20 yards. The ball then surged back and McGill did good work for Laureate. forth at the centre of the field and at last Hoxie The day -vvas cold, windy and anything but made a punt of 35 yards. Laureate made_ no agreeable, but yet the students turned ~ut to a gains and Union took the ball for several gains man and tb.el~e was a fair nutn ber of ladtes pres- of 5 yards each. Laureate at length received ent. The college teatn received hearty support the ball and McGill n1ade a run of 25 yards along the lines. when he \'ras brought to the turf by Mallory. The Laureates '\<VOn. the toss up and chose the He made another atten1pt and met the same north goal. Iloxie kicked off for Union and it fate at 5 yards by the fearless play of St-nith. went ont of bounds. Weed downed Laureate Union now had the ball on a fun1ble and made on their I o yard line. The boatn 1 en m~d~ a three short gains. I-Ioxie kicked 20 yards and gain of IO yards around the end when Smith · Messmer threw the opponent the instant he brought McGill to the ground. Then Q.uacken- caught the ball. Union won the ball on a bush made a gain of 5 yards and was blocked fumble. Time was called at 5 :05 with the s~ore by Wilson. Laureate fumbled and Eookhout still 6 to o. stopped the ball in 3 yards. The line-up follo-vvs: The ball was now in the possession of the UNION. LAUREATE. collegians and Captain Crichton conveyed the l'Iessmer ............ .left end ................ Lane £ 1 d b b t . Wilson ............. left tackle ...... Quackenbush Oval over the line or a touc 1 ·own Y a eau l- · · 1 ft d S th Bookhout .......... e . guar ......•...... my · ful sprint of 40 yards. There was no lin1it to Closs ................. centre ............. :Mulansen t he students' enthu\iasn1 until the officials de- Thomas. · · .. · · · · · · .right guard···· · · · · · · ··Hunter Poole .............. right tackle ..... Ba.xter (Capt.) cided that there was holding in the line and re- vVeed ............... right end ............ Murp~y turned the ball to the I5 yard line. Smith ............. quarter baek ........... R~nkin Mallory ........... left half ba~k ........... G1lbe!t Laureate now had the ball and advanced it IO Crichton (Capt.) .right half back ........... McGill Y ards. Laureate fun1bled and Mallery got the Hoxie .. ·.··· ... ···· .full back.··········· ····Evers 1 Referee-Umpire-Prof. Pollard, Union. Umpire- ball on the I5 yard line. Laureate won t Je Referee-Edward ]'laxwell, Laureate. Linesmen- ball again on downs and advanced it by short · Chas. Vrooman, Union '98, and C. Howard Nash, gains. The Trojans made a fumble again and Laureate. Touchdown-Crichton. Goal fron1 Crichton fell on it. Wilson and Crichton then . touchdown-Hoxie. Time of halves-20 and 15 made four successive gains of three yards each. minutes.

·I ! i ~ ! . ' , I ' ! 't '.1 . : ! . I I 6 THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIEN,SIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PooRE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOl\IA.N, '98, - Business Manager CARL HAMMER, '98., - - - - - News Editor : JOHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G. C. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. W. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: CoNCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in .Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in .Advance 'riiE p1·inciples set fo:rth in the chapel speech of PI 1 esiden.t Raytnond last Friday morning recom- mend themselves to every right-minded citizen. 'rhere is always a liability that first voters will be drawn into machine politics by rnistaken ideas of party loyalty. A political party should command tbe vote of a man only when it stands for and em- bodies those princip~es of government he believes to be the best. When it ceases to do this, or when it fails into the hands of political hypocrites who pervert its former purpose, it becomes another and different party retaining only the name. THE members of the faculty could do much toward the advancement of the literary side of undergraduate interests by attending the meet- iqgs of the debating societies occasionally. The meetings are not very long and are generally of decided interest. Were members of the faculty Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. present, informally of course, the students would Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- • not only be inspired to greater effort but many of ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. tben1 would learn something of utmost value in Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. NOTICE TO CONTQIBUTO:QS. All copy intended for insertion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNBSDA Y noon. AT present we can see no good reason why the admission fee to the games at Ridgefield should not be increased to fifty cents. In spite of the low price, the attendance at none of our Albany games has been large. This may have been through insufficient advertising or the drawing powers of rival attractions, but it certainly has not been owing in anyway to the cost of admis- sion. On the contrary, we venture to say that more devotees of college sport would attend a game where fifty cents was charged than there would where only twenty-five cents was the fee. Never, in the latter case, would the crowd be twice as great as in the former. The plan, at least, is well worth trying. college ethics i. e. that the chief element of the ·professol'ial nature is not, by any odds, the task- m.a.ster element. Some slight suspicion almost creeps in, too, that the benefits of these solicited faculty visits would not be altogether one-sided. IN spite of the rather small score of last Satur- day's gan1e the result was one on which the mem- bers of the teant and the college generally may be congratulated. The Union tean1. outclassed their opponents at every point, not because the Rutgers team was weak, but because every wearer of the Garnet did the very best that he possibly could. Those mistakes that were made, resulted not so much from la~k of care as from an over degree of zeal. With the same amount of resolution and spirit the team can and will achieve similar results. In every game each player should go in with a determination to do or to die, and the 1nen on the side-lines by their rooting should let the outsiders and mere on-lookers know that no game is won until it's done. A little more of this spirit and a little less readiness to criticize would, we think, prove highly advantageous. ; : : i E g VI ~ c s '1 J I ( t

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 1 D.r. F~aymol)d Of) ~itiZ9Q51}ip. Last Friday morning at cha'pel service, Dr. in the state or national organization, it the,reby absolves from local allegiance all who believe sincerely in the accepted principles of the party ', at large. To repudiate the principles of a party Raymond, after announcing that the faculty had granted the students' petition and that there would be no college :exercises from Oct. 29 to Nov. 3, spoke to the students upon the duties of , ciHzenship in general, and the present political . . . . 1 Situation rn parttcu ar. Dr. Raymond spoke in substance as foilows: This t~ecess is taken that the students may have abundant time to go home to vote. The effect sho·\lld be to emphasize in every mind the duties of citizenship. If this is the effect-the sacrifice of time is not in vain; for the course of events in this republic shows more and more c~eady each year, the importance of active and interested citizenship on the part of our educated men. The line iust now is being sharply drawn between citizenship and partizan· ship. The contest in Greatet New York is at· tracting the attention of the whole country, and it is certainly significant that the citizens move- ment, as opposed to the partizan tnovement, is the head of one of our great educational institu- tions. And I was not a little impressed by the fact that every n1an with whom I talked yestet 4 - day in the University Club in New York was an ardent supporter of the citizens movernent. This would seetn to indicate on which side the educated ,men of our country may be expected to range themselves in the future, for the present conflict is prophetic. The issue in New York is sure to becotne sooner or later the issue in every city. And it behooves you, young gentle- men as futut·e men, Gf influence in your several communities, to study carefully and honestly, so that you may act intelligently and conscienti- ously when the time for action comes. I have no l1esitation in stating my own posi- tion. It is folly to deny the importance of parties and party organizations in political life. It is equal folly to assert that party organization is a supreme issue in any contest that involves the interests of a community. A party is always a means, never an end-the end is good gove1·n- . ment. Further, when any local party organization repudiates the principles definitely announced while claiming the party nan1e, is to be a traitor to the party; and no seeming pressure of l()cal necessity can change the ugly fact. As. the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath, so parties are made for principles of governtnent and not principles for parties, to be twisted or ignored by pa:rties at their pleasure. But by far the ,most important principle enter- ing into the campaign in New York city is this. Local interests are to be settled on their merits without' the intt·oduction of state and national questions. The principle is so self-evident that it would never be questioned but for the gratifica- tion of personal ambition. The party that not only asserts this principle but maintains it, whatever its name, is destined to receive the sup- port of an increasing number of intelligent, con- scientious, patriotic citizens. fT\iQor fopies. Draper, '97, was in Schenectady this week. Andrews, '98, spent Sunday with Amsterdam friends. Wingate, '97, visited friends on the hill Saturday. Guy Vroman spent vacation at his h<>rne in Middleburg. C. D. Griffith, '98, spent the eleeti<>n day recess at his home in Watertown. The Kappa Alph's entertained at a small Hallowe'en party last Monday night. Mattison, '98, preached Sunday 1norning and evening in the Congregational church. At last Monday's meeting of the Fortnightly, the paper of the evening was read by Professor Hoffman. The Adelphic literary society has changed the hour of meeting from Friday aftern<:>on to Wednesday evening. Invitations are out for the freshman banquet . The invited guests are the various managers, captains and editors of the upper classes.

8 ----ADVERTISEME'NTS.- The question debated by the Philomathe~ns last Wednesday night was, \Resolved That I¥SURA.NCE. Hawaii should be annexed by the United States.\ EVERY DESCRIPTION, The youngest college president in the United States is said to be Jerome H. Raymond, presi· .B .. CLEVELAND SLOAN, dent of the University of West Virginia. He is 29 years old, and at the age of 9 was a ·Chicago 424 STATE STREET. newsboy. Wentworth Tucker of Albany, entertained at ' dinner last Saturday night, S. G. H. Tur- ner, '98, C .. J. Vrootnan, 'g8, R. D. Sinclair, '98, Fred Miles, '99, J. N. Vander Veer, '99, and R. H. Nevins, 1901. Chicago University is planning the con- struction of a new gymnasium. Its dirnensions will be I oo by 8oo feet, and it is proposed to make it the finest building of its kind in the world. An athletic field 100 by 6oo feet will be added,. with a seating capacity of 25,ooo people. The field will be entirely closed and properly heated, so that sport can be carried on during the winter.-Ex. 'Who is .•• C. GOETZ? The oniy Tailor in Schenectady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CA.LL AND SEE THEM. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen o-t\ hundred, call and get ~my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. 8. E. BOTHAN\, 214 CLINTON ST. KEELER' s ___ .... .._, • • EUBOPEAN I • HOTEL JIHD REST ~URIIHT, Broadway a.nd Maiden La.ne, ALBANY,N.Y. ~ • • <iENTLEl\EN ONL T. 250 ROOMS. • •• Ladies Restaurant Attached •.. • • 3 Central .Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WILLIAM 11. K~ELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- UNION RE·STAURANT, k)py and ~ueam ~leaning and TJyeing Wo-gf{s. Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-clails work guaranteed. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJAGOB RINDFLEISCH, SHOES HE~TL I REP~IKEJ) 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OpeD uDtil9 P.M. Work done at short notice. ••• AT TE;E ••• ENTERPRISE A REP .AIRING A SHOP,. 45 SOUTH CENTRE STREET. ...

... ------ADVERTISE:MENT.S.- ~ddili:OQS to tt}~ £i:bra.ry . . , From. the Instructors' c:lub: ,., The Gray M - - \ ·s- R C k t · '' n, V· a·dt'·s .?·\\ H· . an, _ . -. . roc e t ; - ~uo Sienkeiwicz; \Probletns of Modern De-mo- cracy,'' E. L. Godkin; \How to Liste.n to Music,\ H. E. Krehbiel; \Kin-g Noanett,\ F. T. Stimson; \ The Balkans,\ Wm. Miller: \Sentimental Tommy,'' J. M. Barrie; \ The Sowers,\ H. S. Merritnan; '''New Ballads.,\ John Davidson; \A Summer in Arcady,\ J. L Al -·1 ''Th R d f th M·'d·· '' F 1-·· . en ;· . .e . e s o, e . - 1 1, e 1x Gras. Later Phi Beta Kappa acquisitions: \Lives of Seventy Painters, Sculptors and Architects,\ 4 vols., Giorgio V asari ; '' Social Forces in German Literature,\ Kuno Franche ; \An In- troduction to Folk Lore,\ Marian R. Fox: i '' The Founding of the German Empire,\ Heinrich von Lydel ; \ Calculus for Engineers,\ John Perry. Organized 1858. Incorporated. Jos. KLEIN . The large.st member~hi~ of I Loms HINKELlU .. N, Director ' any musiCal orgamza.t1on Manager. • in Albany. lOTH REGT. MILITARY BAND AND> ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, Hamlltont Cornell, Williams, Middlebury etc. Furnished 50 men !or' State Ball at Armory, Albany, J' an. 7. '97. Colle\e Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddings. Balls, C(}nceru. etc .• a specialty. Address, LOUIS F, HINKELMAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240. '2'lJ State St., Albany. l~©1$)f5 ~ ~!f{~~Tll@INI~ ~ \\~ and other cut flowers con2tantly on hand. . • •• 'tr> GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. II HIGH GRADE SHOES .. ~AT LOWEST P:R:ICES.- ·w. tc L. ·E •. CURLEY, !5t4 FULTON ST., TR.OY 1 N.Y. Largest lannraotnrers in America . • ... . ,, . of Engineers'· and Snr¥eyors'· Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruments and Materials. ,: 8:-l:f~~.~r_.~.!:-_E~ ............... ~.~~.-. s_e_N~ * E!iClRAVEKJ, * ..---ALBANY, N. Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE tr:NEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards.. European Plan, Rooms, 15c and Upwards. 8. D. WYR'T'T ~GO., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY, ''The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment Qf Cigars, Tobacco, Pipe», &c. Saratoga Milleral W a.ters, Ginger A.le., &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackeri • 146 State St. PATTOlf & BALL. T•lephoue- 88. GOl-608 UNION STREET.

10 ------.AD VERTISE:MENTS.------ Yates' Boat House. The 'largest and best equipped in the State. Excel- lent .Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, ,SCHENECTADY, N. Y. COAL-----·•••••·,.rr The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEEDER BROS,,, No. 424 STATE STREET. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), a PHOTOGRAPHER, ~ and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Supplies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for p0pular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:tl6 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 4,82. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' Colle~e, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 S.R:l\Ji'YTE 1\ 'klE1l'E]'iPE:el{, •-- - Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}J._L aQd W®eB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw a.nd Fertilizers. 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock St .. Schenectady, N. Y. Wade & Co., FL®F\ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE,---- HATTER AND F;UR;R:IER. · Also, T'l'unks, Bags, liuit Oases, G-loves, . Umb~Pellas, Oanes, Etc. 227 S'f ATE 8'TRE:E\1. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE [!] w {f) (j; (j; [!] No. 15 North Pearl St., AL:BANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and. Zithe1·s. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. The UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- uount offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ...-.--. __ THOMAS HAS THE BEST. UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings. Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104:-106 wan Street, SCHE:!fECTA.DY, N. Y.

,· THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 I' AS f BALL I Supplies, Spalding League BaH, Mits, Masks, etc. Mana.ge:rs should send for samples and special rates. Every requi· .site forTennis, Golf, Cricket, Track a.nd Field, Gymnasium. Equiptnents and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and 'Summer Sports free. ''The Na1ne the Guarantee.'' A. ;G. S PAL D I'N G & B R·OS;., New Y 1i:il~icago, : WIENC;KE'S-------.. QoJilEL GE~MANIA AND ~ESTllAU~ANTit. EILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre.and Liberty Sts. BRIAR AMBER AND ' Pipes. MEERSCHAUM THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN Ar.r WEBBER'S GEN'T'RAL PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST, A..Nn R. R. WILSON DA. VIS, Merrehant Tailor. No. 231 •tate St., 8CHBNEOTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEW ARP H. FRENCH. l:fNI0N eOLLESE B00K EXeJiJtNSE. 21 ~~ All College lexts, Draughting lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary ::o liege supplies. P'ICK.FO:RD .BROS., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULT·RY. ~~Game in season. Telephone 88-S. 602 UNION, COR. :BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, 'OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Commission dealers in :Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., •.. THE LEADING •.• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICK. The Arlingto11_; Hat Co., 808 State ~..~t., Schefledad1J, N. Y. MANUFAGl'URERS OF Hf\1\8. Hats Cleaned and Repaired. Wholes•.le and Retail. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and .Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 -----ADVERTISEMENTS.-.. - THE • ONLY • F·LORIST'S IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a :first\\class store. .Jiall Jlas~ioqs WH liTLE BROS .• .atttliJub~its READY FOR YOUR INSPECTION AT ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. lnte·rcollegiate Bureau ror - ·~ GAPS, &OWNS AND ROODS. Illustrated Manual en.application. Class contracts a spemalty. ·COTTRELL AND LEONARD, 4.,.2-178 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. s. ~. ~!~~~N, ..:JPt., ' 0 c. RU.STJ N ENG·RAVING GO., · ) .1e ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. M en's Photo. Engravers, illustrators and Designers. • • • • Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. F . • h • G d Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. urnts . tng · oo s. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. F. A. VanVranken. F. VanVranken. Vf\:N V·R~NKEN BROS., IMPO~TI1ING <9AILO~S, 48 NORTH PEARL Sr_r.' Notman Building. A LB.ANY, N, Y. P.F.McBREEN R. T. MOIR, ~· ~· ~===-­ sooKs, FINE STATIONERY, PlaTU~E FRAMING, 218 William St.,, New Yo.rk WALL PAPERS, E'rc. ALWAYS :PRINTE'R READY · ·· STEAMSHIP AGENCY .••.• 888 State St., Sch~nectady, :N. Y GU'T FLOWERS FURNISHED R'T SHORT NOTIGE. Shipped \to any pa.rt ttnd guaranteed ilrst,.ela.ss. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. READY FOR FALL CLO·THINfi FOR ALL-- HEAD-TO-FOOT. RLBF\NY, N. Y. ~SAUL.

The Concordien·sis. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STU DENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. NOVEMBER 12, 1897. No.8. •

2 -ADVERTISEMENTS UNIO~N COLLEGE .ANDitllW V.~ \v :JA.YMOND, D. D., LL, D,, President. UNION COLL!EGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. l. Course Leadiag. to the Deg1•ee of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work isil~rgely elective. 2. Course Lead :tag to the Degree of n. S.~-The modern lan.guages are substituted for the ancient and the amount of Mathematics and :English studies is increased. .After the Sophomore year a. large list of electives is .offered. 3. Course t..ea.~t:ng. to tll.e Degree 0f Ph. B.-'This differs from the .A. B. •~t<>urse chiefly in the omis'3ion of Greek .and the substitutioa Urerefor of additional work. in modern languages and scienc-e . .f:. General Course Leading to the Degree ofB. E.- This course is intended: to g.ive the basis of an Engineering education, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the ;pr0fession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full ·eouse in English. 5. Sanitary C~urse Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs .from C()use 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering :f<:>r some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from 00Ul1Se 4 ·in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place ·Of ,some of the General Engineering studies. ':Phis course is offered in co-operation with tb.e Edison GenEral Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A..eo11rse of one year offered to iraduates of Course ~~ 5 or 6. There are also spEcial courses in .Analytical Chemistry, Metallur~y and Natuna.lHistory. For catalogues or for special informatiOn address BEN J A:M.IN, H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARf'Jv1ENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical o(Jollege.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. 'Tln·ee years strictly graded course. In- struction~ by lectures, ·recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstra.tions and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee., $25; dissectin~ fee, $10; Ia.boratory course~ .each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TlifCKER, M.D., Re&i::istrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPA'RTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany, near the Stat.e Capitol. It occupies a building wholly de-voted to its use. lllJle course is one year, divided into two semesters. ExpenBes.- Ma.triculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For oatalogues or other- information, address J'. NEWTON FIH1lt0, Dean. ,At.B.ANY LA. W SCHOOL, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY :COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercieea held in ..Albany :Medical College. Annual lecture .term commences 'Mo'llday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- Uoll a.ddress DE B.!'UN \VANAKEN Ph. G., Secretary, 222 Ha.mUtoD St. ·Gentleme11 • • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and most modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber E1uporium in New York State. QUIRI'S ,SHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST.,. COR. WALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' BONBONS -.AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. · Jlhe line6t ligar6 and the lure6t o~ Urug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 ST..A.TE ST., COR. CENTRE. (9HE ... €DISON f)01llEL, ........--Schenectady, N.Y. Centrally locatul, and the Largest and Best Appoz'nted Hotel z'n the city. Headqua1·ters for Commerct'al Travellers a1zd ~ourt'sts GHAS. BROWN, PROPRIE'l'OR.

The Cor)cordie11sis \ VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, NOVE}MBER 12, 189'7. No. 8. :GE·ORGE WILLIAM ':CURTIS. Eloquent Lecture by Dr. McElroy-Rem- iniscences by Professor Wells. Last Friday afternoon a large and represent- ative audience listened to one of the most inter- esting lectures heard in the chapel for some tirne. William H. McElroy, '6o, introduced by President Raymond in a few well rounded sentences, spoke entertainingly on George Wil- liam Curtis. He spoke in substance as foUows: Mr. Presidetzt, Fellow Students, Ladies and Gentlemen:- Emerson said that \when nature rem·oves a great man we search the horizon for his equal.\ It is the fact that we should not look on l1i m or his like that makes his loss so great. In George William Curtis was found that rare and stin1u- lating light of an all embracing sympathy,' a keen sense of justice, a love for the beautiful and a consutning passion for all things of truth and good report. Nature rnight well have stood and said, \This is a tnan.\ Those who knew him well give so good a report of him to their listeners that we tnay know that \Stand where we may, night or day, There was ne'er the like of him who passed a, way.\ When I was a boy I told my tnother that if ever I should be married and blessed V\.,.ith a boy I should call him after George William Curtis. When that titne came I never thought of giving him any other name. I shall speak of Curtis frotn several points of view. As a lecturer he was the bright, partic- ular ~tar of a brilliant platform. As a boy, living in Albany, I read a notice that he was to speak at the Lyceum on \Nile Notes.\ I knew that the Nile was a river in Africa, that Africa was a great, dark, almost unknown country, and expected to see in the lecturer a swarthy, sunburned explorer, fierce and loud in manner, roughly dressed, perhaps wearing a fez and having a knife or two in his belt. Instead, I found a tall, slim, graceful young fellow, with sunny- hair, blue eyes and a winning, unso- phisticated smi.le. And his voice confirmed the impression conveyed by his gracious presence. It was rich, fun, flexible and melodious. Curtis was not in any way overshadowed by the 1nany brilliant lecturers of his tin\le. He lectured on a wide field of subjects-politics, literature., art, all admirably treated. l-Ie was critical, shrewd and incisive, yet throngh all he tnaintained that particular urbanity so strongly insisted upon by Matthew Arnold. His sentences had the finish of a Greek statue and this not at the ex:pense of force ; they were so finely com- pact, so full of illustrations of learning, wit, and a perrueating hutnor that sparkled like a phos- phoi·esc€nt sea. Take this appropriate sentence, ' 4 There is a picture of Turner's in the Academy at Baltimore, a si tnple sketch, yet the very soul of Italy steals to you like a rich odor.\ And another fro1n a lecture delivered at this old college with its terrace and brook, ''Day by day, no matter where our hours tnay be, we have watched the passing stages of the year; day by day we have seen the advancing year increase and develop until now in the tnidst of golden grain the year stands out perfect in the midst of sutnmer.\ In a tribute to Curtis, Park Gordon says, it wo.uld be difficult to overestimate the popular favor these lectures inspired. The lecturer pro- duced the in1 pression that he was better than the best of his utterances. He commended heroes who were highest and best and all that was healthiest in life and beauty. He was the epitome of what was most inspiring in his dis- course. To great men the prospect of a eulogy by Curtis furnished a solace to the inevitable hour. It is true, he was the thing he most

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. admired. He once delivered for ·charity's sake . right to keep out of politics?\ Is not every in Brooklyn his eulogy on Sir Philip Sidney. citizen bound to render the com.monwealth a Dr. Chadwick, in seconding the vote of thanks direct service ? The duties ·of citizenship: are to Curtis, said he had found it difficult to tell not transferable any ~more than those of husband, whether he was listening to a discourse on Sir son or father. If popular government is to en- Philip Sidney by George W. Curtis or to a dure, then all people from the least to the great- discourse on Curtis by Sidney. est must help according to their ability. The books that cam~e from his pen a:re not Atnong his lectures Curtis delivered two at many. ~Chief of these are: \The Nile Notes Union. One ·On \Patriotism\ and one in r877 of a Howadji,\ \'The Howadji in Syria,\ on \Public Duty of Educated Men,\ in which \ Prue and I,\ \Lotus-Eating'' and \ The he expressed the sentiment that the end of ed u- Potiphar Papers.\ He wrote much for news- cation was not a private one b11t rather a public papers, Harper's Weekly and Harper's Monthly, advantage and that the best educated man was on civil service reform .and other prominent ·. a servant of knowledge for the service of :tnan- questions of the day. He had little time to pur- kind. sue the normal bent o.f his nature, which would The pern1anency of Curtis' writings is an have made his fame chiefly a literary one. . open question. The reading public, like a Thackeray pronounced him the most promising travel1er discarding all unnecessary luggage, literary figure of his generation. His ''Potiphar . leaves all but the masterpieces behind. \Nile Papers\ was a sharp satire on society and the Notes\ and \Howadji in Syria\ will never \400\ of the generation back of our own, yet cease to attract until the sweet plant of sentiment it was .satire within bounds. Ridicule is a · perishes from the human heart. Among our legitimate weapon, yet nothing is legitimate literary autocrats we have Oliver Wendell which is inconsistent with charity. Holmes the '' Autocrat at the B:veakfast Table,, As a public man, the rule of Curtis' life was, and Curtis the autocrat of the \ Easy Chair that it was sweeter to live for one's country than . Papers.\ In these Cu1tis treats of science, art, to die for it. His failure to write \ The Life of religion, society, fashions, politics, n1ajor and Mahomed\ was due to his consuming love for minor morals and all phases of hutnan life a.s l1e his country. His addresses on public questions saw it. Through all was to be seen his ilight such as labor and civil service reforms did more yet fi1·m touch, his a d'miration for all that was for the advancement of politics along wholesome true, his scorn for evil, his sense of proportion lines than any other single influence of his and that catholicity which results from a cultured generation. He maintained that whatever was nature and a noble heart. The unequaled value dishonorable outside of politics was just as dis.. . attached to Curtis' writing is evidenced by the honorable in politics. When he undertook the · fact that at his death the \ Easy Chair'' depart- carrying out of his plans for the attainment of ment in Harpers' was discontinued and ha.s not higher ideals in politics he had a great mountain since been revived. of political corruption before hirn. Both parties Women owe Curtis a great debt of gratitude, were champions of the spoils syste1n. Political :for he labored faithfully in their behalf .as he machines had to be smashed. Political sharpers understood their need. In a letter to a woman's had to be cured of \ the convictions of a life- suffrage convention he calls woman's suffrage time.\ The noble army of political sharks had the greatest question of the age, asks for fair to be put to rout. But Curtis possessed the play toward her and would open every oppor- noble mental as well as moral qualities so neces- tunity and let women enter if she chooses. At sary for such an undertaking. a constitutional convention he proposed and I presume the literary societies of the college advocated an amendment giving suffrage to are still flourisl1ing and will suggest as the sub- women. ject for their next debate, ''Has any citizen any The individuality ·of Curtis was admirable ;j I : I 'I '\ I \ I I 1 I ' .. '·; . I

'\ I \ I I 1 I ' .. '·; . t THE CONOORDIENSIS. and lovabl~e. It is impossible to give a satis- · factory account of his personality. It may be said that he never dared to be as gracious as he . could. He was generous-hearted but not of the hale-fellow-well-met sort. All he said was stamped with distinction. It is difficult to vealize that this man was a regular attendant at cau- cuses and a thorn in the side of the political boss. If he were asked why he did this I can . hear him reply, '' I believe ~n doing the duty nearest ·me and in so doing I am obeying the solemn ad111onition of Lincoln, 'See to it that this government for the people and by the people does not perish from the land.:~\ :George Willia1n Curtis was born in Provi- dence, R. L, in I 824, and spent l1is youth in Jatnaica Plains, then went into business in New York for a short time. When the Brookfarm project was launched he allied himself with it but after two yea~s went to Europe, travelled, studied and wrote letters to tl1e New York Sun for four-years. In r853 he became connected with Putnam's Magazine, which soon failed, and he spent the next 13 years in endeavors to repay the debts of the :firm, although really under no obligations to do so.. He made his entrance to politics in the campaign for Fremont for president in 1856. In 1857 he became editor of Harper's Weekly and held that posi- tion until his death in I 892. In I 867 he was 1nade regent of the University of New York. He began his long fight for civil service reform in r87o and in 1871 President Grant appointed him chairman of the civil service commission. Such was George William Cu rtis,-a delight- ful person, a thoroughly manly man, a con- summate orator and a useful helper of every good cause. Whatever good he ever said of another was equally true of himself. In his words at the grave Winthrop said, '' We cannot think of him as dead; we never shall; when he went away he was alive, a light-immortal.\ MY MEMOQIES OF GEOnGE W. CUQTIS, By PROF. WILLIAM WELLS. The exceedingly interesting and very able lecture of our good friend and distinguished alumnus Mr. McElroy, awakened in my heart some of the most pleasant me111ori,es of my student days, which l~ave induced tne to offer a few notes to The Concordiensis in regard to my own acquaintance and intercourse with him. I first 1net hiln in the fa,mous revolutionary year in Europe in '48, as a student in the Uni- versity of Berlin. There were that year thirteen Americans all to~d in the city attending lectures at the famous school. About half of them were students in sincerity, and the others came to the lectures now and then. We soon divided into groups according to our tastes, and Mr. Curtis and myself found ()Urselves together at the lectures of the famous art critic of the period, the well known Dr. Wagner, and at the course of Physical Geography, by the celebrated Carl Ritter, and in the History of German Literature, by Doctor Kopke. This similarity of taste brought us quite nearly together, and I thus learned to know him better than any other of the group. He was quiet and · unassuming in his manners; genial, gentle and kind, but gave no indications of the marked talent which made him so famous in after life. He was remarkably pure in all his associations, and chose the intercourse of the refined society that was opened to hi·rn by the kindness of the American ambassador, rather than all the attractions that frequently drew away his fellow countrytnen. One day Mr. Curtis was missing from his usual work, and the question passed around, '' Where is Curtis? \ One who knew, replied that he had gone to Leipzig to hear the famotts Swedish songstress Jenny Lind ! This was a long and tedious journey in those days of the heavy, bungling diligence instead of the rapid rail. But as it was understood that Jenny Lind would not cotne to Berlin, he determined to hear her at this expense of time and discomfort in Leipzig. But toward the close of the year the famous revolution of '48 broke out in Paris, and soon extended its influence all over Germany. The Berlin students had, or thought they had, many grievances, and applied to the authorities for the use of the Aula, or auditorium, of the university to discuss them. Their petition was not granted

I . I 6 THE CONOORDIENSIS. and they called a meeting in a certain locality outside of the city limits. In the meanwhile a great fermentation was going on in nearly all layers of :society, and the agitators induced the government to put a certain portion of the garrison under arn1s against a possible outbreak. One afternoon it was rurnored that the students intended in the evening to 1narch in a body to the royal square and make a demonstration before the palace. A company of dragoons was ordered out to be prepared for an emergency, and with the shades of evening the excitement grew in- tense. The Arnerican students all assembled at the embassy, hoping there to hear sotnething, but the hours passed and no tidings came, when a few of us determined to go and see what was going on. Curtis declined to get any nearer the fray. We soon reached the palace square and found there a quiet,. curious crowd, vvith no intent to do any violence. Presently we saw a company of dragoons defile up a side street and fonn a sort of crescent around us, with the crowd hemmed in by the houses at its back. Pre~ently the cotntnanding officer gave the order to charge, to our distnay. As he approached with drawn sabre, I was right at the front, and rushed out to him to app·eal to let us go, as we were simply quiet lookers-on with no evil intent. But he aimed a blow at me which turned up a portion of my scalp and hurled tne to the ground. In a flash I saw that my only chance of escape was to dart under his horse and get within the lines, which I safely did, and thus escaped. The wound bled profusely,and an examination proved that a deflection of half an inch would have sent his weapon into my skull. As it was I have carried the scar through life. Mr. Curtis a few years ago, when revolution was rife in Gennany, again alluded in his ''Easy Chair\ to the manner, etc. of a fellow American student in that fray, whose blood waf:l the only pure republican fluid that baptised the conflict. But the vile outrage of that needless attack on quiet, in<;>ffensive men, was the spark in the powder that started the great revolution. In a few days the university was closed, and the professors and students were scattered to the winds. I was sent as special m:essenger from our A·m·erican ·embassy to the newly assetnbled parlia1nent in Frankfort-on-the-Ma,in, with the offe1· on the part of our embassy to acknowledge the new rebel government there being estaq- lished. I saw no more of Curtis and did not know which way he had gone. In a few years I came horne, and not long afterwards received the appointment of a professor of modern languages in G,enesee college, the forerunner of Svracuse \' university. I had read the ''Nile Notes'' and the story of the '' Howadji,\ and knevv that their author had becom,e a prominent lecturer in the country. But, in. \George Wm. Curtis,\ I never recognized our \Curtis\ of Berlin. In- deed I never knew his baptisrnal name, for we ahv.ays called him simply \ Curtis.\ In said institution the ''boys\ were getting up a course of popular lectures, and they came to me for advice as to their choice. A·mong others they suggested Mr. George W m. Curtis- I said I knew nothing of him but his reputation as an inte1·esting lecturer and .author of the above books, but thought it would be well to have him in the course. It was the custom of the ''boys\ when the lecturer arrived, to ask me to go with thern to the hotel and call upon and welcome hitn. And so this time shortly after his arrival I called at the hotel and knocked at his door, and in a motnent it was opened and we stood face to face with one another. I recognized him itntnediately as tny old friend, and involuntarily exclaimed: \Why Curtis, is this you.\ In an instant he knew me, and in turn exclaimed : \Why vVells! what in the world are you doing here?\ And thus shouting and gesticulating the ''boys\ thought that we had gone mad about something. Suffice it to say that in a few minutes he and his baggage were on their way to my house. When I introduced him in the evening, and told the strange stoFy of early acquaintance and our meeting the \boys\ went wild. After the lecture we talked nearly all night about the scenes and events of other days, and all the time it was and ever has been a sort of

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 7 drea1n to me that the noble and famous George W1n. Curtis was the pure, and genial, and quiet and unassuming ''':Curtis\ of other days. I need hardly say that after that strange meet- ing and recognition I watched his course with pride and pleasure, and most heartily endorse the ,magnificent eulogy and story so grandly given by our good friend and honorable and honored alumnus, McElroy. First ~uad Dar}ee. The first Quad dance ·Of the season was held at Yates' boat house, Friday evening, November 5. The excellent music furnished by Zita of Albany was enjoyed by about thirty couples. Refreslunents were served during the inter- mission by Doberman, the caterer. Dancing continued until after three. The occasion will long be re1nen1bered as one of the most enjoy- able hops ever held in Schenectady. An'long the guests present from out of town were: Mrs. Loomis and Miss Haviland, of Glens Falls; Miss Waite, of Sandy Hill ; Miss Wjse, of New York ; Miss Harwood, of Raleigh, N. C.; and Mrs. H. L. B. Ryder, of Poughkeep- sie, formerly of this city. Another of these delightful dances will be held in the near future. (ia rl)et prize. The '99 Garnet board will present two prizes to the amount of $5 each to the two under- graduates of Union college who subtnit the best literary matter-quantity and quality being considered-for publication in the Garnet. The signature (fictitious) and the writers t·eal name must be enclosed in a sealed envelope; the signature being placed on the outside. The cotnpetition will close Friday, Jan. 7, r898. Those who intend to cotnpete are requested to hand their natn,es to Mr. Harold J. Hinman the literary editor, before Saturday, Nov. zo, 1897· JuQior ;tops. The junior hop committee met at the Psi Upsilon house iast Friday afternoon to discuss a scheme for the conduct of a series of first-class successful coHege dances. Various plans were carefully considered from every stand point. The con:unittee at length deciJed to give hops instead of a promenade, the nutnber depending upon the p.atlunage received. The first dance will be held Friday evening, Dec. 3, at Yates' boat house. No invitations will be issued as they are con- sidered an unnecessary and useless expenE;e. The price of adtnission will be $1.50 for each dance, no season tickets will be issued. Light refn~·shments -vvill be served and convey- ance to andft·otn the boat house will be furnished by the cotnrnittee. The co1ntnittee is making every effort to make the dances a success and expect the general support of every man in col- lege. The dances are in charge of George C. Foote, Leroy T. Bradford, Frank H. Fisk, Jr., F. Roy Chatnpion, Havilah Beardsley, Frederick Miles, Arthur B. Lawrence, Wesley R. Nellis, Daniel J. Hoyt, George M. Wiley and George W. Featherstonehaugh, 1900. Weekly Tehearsals are being held by the musical organizations and the clubs this year bid fair to far surpass those of previous seasons. Manager Sinclair and the various leaders have been untiring in their efforts, and excellent results have been accotnplished. The music is all new and extre1nely catchy. At a competi- tive rehearsal last Monday evening the following personnel ()f the clubs was decided upon : Banjo club-Clarence D. Stewart, r 900, leader; Heertnance, 'r9or, Hintnan, '99, Bender, 1900, Kline, 1900, Haggart, 'g8, Pike, I 900, J an1es S. Stewart, r 900. Mandolin andGuitarclub-HarryJ. McClure, leader; Mark, '99, Cle1n James Bradford, '98, Gutman, '98, Heermance, 19or, Haggart, '98, Pike, r9oo, J. Stewart, 1900.

i . ' ' I • THE OONCORDIENSIS .. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK Dl:l'Rl·NG THE •COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PooRE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, · Business Manager CARL HAMMER, '98, - - ..... · - News Editor JoHN L. SHERWOOD, .Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOCIATE EDIU'I'ORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. 'T. J3RADFORD, '99, G. C. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1'900, P. ~. 'THOMSON, 1900, D. W. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: Co:NCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 pe1· Year, in Advance Both Papers to one. Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address all comn1unications to THE OoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. ¥ ., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. NOTICE TO CONTH'LBUTORS. All copy intended for inse-rtion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDAY noon. THE matter of Saturday recitations is beginning to receive some attention from faculty and students. That the question deserves careful con- sideration goes without saying. Within the last week or so petitions have been presented to the faculty for decrease of work. And certain of the older members of the august body will tell you such petitions belong to the :p<:n-ennials blooming once to thrice each year. And students will tell you the shrub would not bloom were it fertilized with less work. And the aforesaid members will point to the fact that the work is not in excess of that required by other colleges. Upon which the student may say, if he so desires, that Union men perform in five days what the other fellow does in six. What then ? We are tempted to believe that no petition for decrease of work, a few exceptions admitted,. was ever presented to the faculty without cause. As the case often stands, the average student must choos'e between sufficient exercise and first grades. We suppose first grades are good things or they wouldn't exist. Any one will tell you sufficient exercise is desirable. The av,erage student has a right to expect a fair .share of both, and he should at least be afforded an opportunity for getting that share. In several cases four-hour recitation days follow five-hour days or vice versa. Such days mean at least ten or twelve hours of sustained mental effort. It may not be known to the faculty, but there are students in this college whose working day regularly means fifteen and even sixteen hours. And these are not aU stage n1en either. Is it necessary to say that under such circumstances poor recitations .are not always a sign of disinterest or carelessness? It is suggested that a few hours of recitation carried over to Saturday morning would relieve the congestion of other days and alleviate the complaint generally. LAST Thursday night while the freshmen were holding their banquet, it is understood that several sophomores 1nade bold to seize upon several mem- bers of the class of 1901 who had remained away from the banquet, and \set them up.\ The action was unquestionably one that would not be countenanced by the whole class. It was probably somewhat humerous but it was scarcely valiant. And it was less graceful because the season for such little festivities has long been past. To the n1embers of 1901 the incident should suggest an absolute reform along these lines-that next year there be no ''setting-up.\ The present freshman class has proven its ability to care for itself, and the proof needs no such addition as the \ setting- up\ of 1902. They have shown ample cout·age and strength in this superannuated and outworn practice, and to them should be the right and the honor of its final abolishment. ;: .. : J ,, { .. ' 'l ,. ,\ ,I .. , ' \

{ .. ' 1 ·l , . . ,, ,I .. , ' ' THE ~c·oNCORDIENSIS. 9 IT IS with extreme pleasure tha.t we present to our readers this week. the article by Professor William Wells, suggested by D1\ McElroy's il..ecture on George William Curtis. Few ~men are now liv- ing who were better acquainted with the j()uth and manhood of the .great poet~author tha.fl our own revered professor-none pel\naps who w,e:pe so intimately connected with Curtis during his student days in Berlin. And speaking of the lecture, we wish to e:xpress the indebtedness of theundergraduates.and friends of the college to Dr. McElroy. ~be discourse was a rare literary treat and was thoroughly appreci- ated. We trust that others of our a'lnmn.i who have attained high places in the outer world will find opportunity to return to their alma Inater on visits of education and inspir.ation. Such visits are often the best form of endowment. UNION was one of the first coUeges in the ~eoun­ try to abolish the custom of Tbaaksgiving day :foot- ball games, and no consideration should tempt the students now to disregard t'h.e precedent. But few colleges, and they can scarcely be called. the best, continue the practice, and even they are .con- templating its discontinuance. In the aanual proclamation of the President of the United States, Thanksgiving day is especially set forth as a day for devotional exercises. If the colleges of our country do not heed such proclamations in letter and in spirit, who under the sun. -will ? Individual students may go out and play foo-tball or anything else they may see fit to amuse tbem- selves with, but the football team, the 'varsit;y, is a college institution and subject, in such matters, to college ruling. THE '99 Garnet board has set a commerJ.da.ble example of enterprize by offering two prizes ,t() be given the two students submitting the best literary matter for the annual. No one should feel that someone else has a sure thing in the mat-ter of these prizes. Every student with a g1•ai:n of ability should try for them. Nearolo~y. A-\ General James C. Duane, 'f4, died Monday morning at his home in New York. His death was due to apolexy, and was entirely unexpec- ted. James Chatham Duane was born in Sche- nectady, June 30, r824. He graduated from Union in 1844 and then entered West Point, graduating in 1848. From then until r854 he served with the engineer corps, and was later an instructor at West Point. When the war broke out, Major Duane took an active part at once and was engaged in engi- neering work. He organized the equipage for for the Army of the Potomac, directed the bridging of that river at Harper's Ferry, and cotntnanded the engineer battallion at the siege of Yorktown. In 1864 he was breveted colonel of engineers, and at the close of the war was breveted brigadier general. For the next three years he was in charge of the construction of the fort at Willet's Point, and in 1867 was appointed lieutenant colonel in the regular army. After- wards he was superintendent of fortifications on the coasts of Maine and New Hamshire, light- house engineer of the eastern coast, member of various engineering boards, and president of the board of United States Engineers in New York City. In r883 he was appointed colonel, and in 1886 chief of engineers with the rank ofbriga- dier general . On his retirement in 1888, Mayor Hewitt of New York appointed him a member of the aqueduct comn1ission, of which he was elected president, and he held that office until his death. He i.s survived by his wife, who was a daugh- ter of General Brewster, U. S. A, and by two sons. Gen. Duane was the author of the \Manual for Engineer Troops.\ He was also one of the founders of the Chi Psi fraternity. Deeember partl]eQOQ. In the Dece1nber Parthenon the question \What is Theosophy?\ will be answered by a well known author and essayist who has made Theosophy his chief study for many years. This issue will also contain a series of vignettes of Oxford life by Doctor Truax.

II: I , I I, '' L I I, '' i ' i' I, ! ' I i: ' I; I I: I: i I I' I, ' i I, I, 'I, ; I ' ! I ~ l i' I, '' '' i' ~ ~ I I;: ! ' ' 1' I I ]I: I I. ~ i :! I i 1 I ' '' 'I ; '' 'I j' 10 THE CONOORDIENSIS. The freshman class held their first banquet last Wednesday evening, at Hotel Vendome, in this city. Much credit is due the co1nmittee and the class for the successful and able ·manner in which the affair was conducted. The even- ing was spent in tnerriment. College songs and class yells were frequently given, and many good stories were told. The menu was well prepared and ample justice was done to it by all present. The class and its invited guests, 6o in all, marched to the dining hall in a body and at precisely I o o'clock toashnaster Heermance declared the banquet opened. After the delicious eatables had been partaken of the following list of toasts were given : TOASTS. TOASTMASTER, CLAYTON J. HEERM.ANCE. President's Welcome, Richard F. Warner 1901, \A good digestion to you all; and once more I shower a welcome on you; welcome all.\ MeN abb, 11101 uwe'll shine in more substantial honours And to be noble we'll be good.\ The Press and the College, W. F. Sheehan, 1901 H The press is either the -vehicle of usefulness or of mischief.\ Our Alma Mater, R. H. Nevins, 1901 HAs down in the sunless retreats of the Ocean Sweet flowers are springing no mortal can see, So deep in my soul the still prayer of devotion. Unheard by the World, rises silent to Thee.\ Friends of Our College Days, J. H. Clements, 1901 \The friendships of the world are oft Confederacies in vice, or leagues of pleasure ; Our's has se-verest virtue for its basis And such a friendship ends not but with life.\ Our Lady Friends, . Porter Lee Merriman, 1901 \And when a lady's in the case, You know all other things gi-ve place.\ Reminiscence, Charles J. Vrooman, '98 \When to the sessions of sweet silent thought, I summon up remembrance of things past, I sigh the lack of many a thing I sought, And with old woes new wail my dear time's waste.\ \Dorp S. G. H. Turner, '98 \In the desert a fountain is springing, In the wide waste there still is a tree, And a bird in the solitude singing, Which speaks of my spirit of thee.\ The gentlemen assigned toasts, as well as others, whom Toastmaster Heermance called upon did credit to both themselves and college. Many good points and suggestions for the advancement of our Ahna Mater were made., and from the spirit manifested, they had good effect upon the students. The banquet was closed with a series of college songs and yells and all present voted the class of 1901 royal entertainers. 51]e ;Illiterate ~olle~iaQ. Of course colleges cannot expect to pay much attention to the insignificant questions of tech- nical workmanship which are of such great itnportance in a printing office. Nevertheless, there is not a college in the country, with all their elaborate systems of courses in rhetoric and literature that does not give its degree every year to young men who cannot spell, or rather who do spell common EngHsh words in a novel and startling manner, who are ignorant of the ordinary rules of punctuation and cannot pro- duce a page of legible manuscript, or write an ordinary letter of friendship or business without errors that we usually associate with the very young or the entirely uneducated. This may be the fault of the English language ; it tnay be the fault of the preparatory schools, or it may be the fault of the colleges. It i,s a fact, and while it remains a fact there will seem to the outsider a trace of the farcical in conventions of teachers of literature and rhetoric and in elaborate re- ports on college requirements which do not in- clude what every newspaper requires of its re- porters and compositors. We do not presume to give advice on the subject of the study of English, but one question suggests itself to us : Why do so large a proportion of English- men write correctly and intelligently? Why is a letter from an English schoolboy usually workmanlike and cr~ditable? Is it because he does not study literature or is the early drill more thorough ?-Hartford Courant. Ayrault, 1900, is rapidly convalescing. I .~ . ' \ ~ ' ... ··'

··' ' \ ~ ' '' THE OONCORDIENSIS. 11 'faGulty .~equisitiol]. Professor Lynes will hereafter devote his entire thne to the management of the library and has given up his classes in the department of history and sociology. This will enable him to ·continue more effectively his work of re- arranging and re-cataloguing the steadily in- ~ creasing nurnber of books. The place rnade vacant by Mr. Lynes will be filled by Dr. Robertson Jones of Johns Hopkins university. ;Concerning Dr. Jones, Dean Rip- ton has given out the following announcem,ent :. Professor Robertson Jones, A. M., Ph. D., was prepared at Cambridge High school and entered Western Maryland college in 1889. He took his bachelor's degree from that institu- tion in 1892, and his rnaster;s degree in 1895· In 1892 he entered the deparhuent of history and political science at the Johns Hopkins university. After spending two years in grad- uate work at the university he was given a year's leave of absence to study at the Hartford School of Sociology. He accepted the position of assistant superintendent of the Hartford Charity organization under Dr. D. J. Green. In 1895 he returned to Johns Hopkins university, where he was appointed university scholar in history. The following spring he took the degree of doctor of philosophy in history, econotnics and sociology. During the acadetnic year, 1896-97, he filled the position of instructor in }1istory at the Western Mary land college, taking the place of the professor of history who was absent in Europe. During the past sumn1er vacation he was in England, Scotland and Wales, collecting n1a- terial for a 1nonograph on \Higher Popular Education in Great Britain,\ which is being written by Prof. Herbert B. Adams, of Johns Hopkins university. While abroad Dr. Jones spent a tnonth at the University of Oxford dur- ing the sumr:ner meeting of the University Ex- tension students. He spent, likewise, nearly a month in London studying different sociological and educational subjects. In the early part of October he returned to Baltimore to assist Pro- fessor Adams in writing reports upon certain educationa~ topics published by the United States Bureau of Education. At the sa,me time he was appointed to give part of the courses regularly offered by Dr. Hollander, associate professor in economics at the university, who had gone abroad as secretary of the Special Bi-tnetaHic commission. Dr. Jones is a fellow by courtesy of the Johns Hopkins university and a 1nember of the chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa society of that institution. His thesis, entitled ''History of Taxation in Connecticut ( 1636- I 776),\ was published in the Johns Hopkins University Studies. He is a son of the Rev. John Bay ley Jones of Philadelphia and a native of Mary land. Ol.It West. There is an eccentric individual down in \Vaco, Tex:as, who is a modern Thersitis. He rails at everybody and everything, and his paper, The Iconoclast:, is fitly nan.1ed. He recently overstepped. the mark by assailing the manage- ment and students of Baylor university, and the latter, to the Bumber of zoo, called upon, mal- treated and forced a retraction from him at the point of.a gun.-Ex. To work one's way through college is no great accotnplishmeut-in a story ; but life and fiction do not always correspond, .as we are told by one contributor to the Brown Magazine. \lf sotne farmer's son, with a constitution equal to that of his father's best draught-horse, has worked l1is way through college on crackers and tnilk, and he is still living to tell the tale, it is no guarantee that sotne weak-chested indi- vidual, with one lung gone and the other going can do the satne. This is the mistake that some physical wrecks are tnaking. Their atnbition is com mendable ; their effort is deplo1·able .\ It is well to be thus reminded that the question has two sides; but that does not alter tbe fact that necessarily, and properly, its decision tnust rest with the person chiefly concerned. Perhaps the poor student feels that in going to college he makes the best possible use of his \one lung.\ -routk's Compant\on.

'1 ..-,~~;..:.........,._~---...>U ·-·-~ . .;.~;,;,,,,..,..,y :;:._ ........ _......__,, .. _ ·----\-(<.......r ......... ...;.:.:..~ ... ..u.::~t,:.::~ .... ~~;:..·;:: -·~.·~ --. ··-~--~'\' - -~ ' i i 12 JniQor Topic·s. Brown, '99, spent last week at his home in Hudson. INSURANCE, EVERY DES,CRIPTION, $4oo,ooo,ooo is expended annuaUy in:. the:. ·e. CLEVELAND SLQA,N, United States for education. W. J. Kline, '72, editor of the Amsterdam .! 424 STATE STREET • .Democrat was in this city last Sunday. , · Doctor Perkins has recovered from hi,s recent ================:===::::::::::::::::::===== illness and has resutned class-room work. The Greek letter fraternities of the United States have a membership of about Ioo,ooo. Wilson, '99, has been kept from football practice this week by an attack of rheumatism. Ohio has the largest nutnber of college students, 24,ooo, one-third of whom are women. A large number of students have subscribed for Union flags to be made by White & C<>. of Schenectady. Dr. Tyler's class in biology is required to write an essay on the origin of species as part of the work for this term. 'Who is .•• C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who imp<>rts goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. When in want of Sandwi,ches by the dozen Ol hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. C. E. BOi'HAM, 214 CLINTON ST. KEELER'S---.-..:r• • • EUROPEAN •• HOTEL AHD REST JIUR~HT, Broadway a.nd Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y.- ....... -.. • • QENTLEMEN ONLY. 250 ROOMS. • • • Ladies Restaurant Attached • • • • • ! 1 • 3 Central .Arcade, SCHENEOTADY,N. Y. WILLIAM ll. KEELER,- Prop. i' 1 ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. ! i !' I' I I. I • I i i. I' i I l j ~ ; ';' : i :: :\ '' \ I '' l ; ,. ' ! ' I • ' I . ' ~ I ! ' . i i;: ; ! I ! i 1 ' ' I!' ; ' i ~ '' I: -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- UNION RESTAUR'ANT, D:uy and ~team (Zlganine and 'tlyein~ Wor(s. Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-cla~s work guaranteed. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. c.JACOB RINDFLEISGH, SHOE5 NEJITL T REPAIKED 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ••• AT THE ••• ENTE.RPRISE A REP .AIRING A SHOP, Open until 9 P. M:. Work done at abort notice .. 45 SOUTH VENTRE STREET. ··: ~ ·.

\ ',. ~ . ' -ADVERTISEMENTS.- 13 The junior class in Latin were treated to a very instructive reading on the customs of the ancient Romans by Prof. Ashmore last 'Thurs- I day. Dr. McKenzie's junior French class is at present enjoying a series of lectures on the French drama. The d9ctor's extensive European tours have made him familiar with his subje:ct. The Unlverslty Herald published by the I students of Syracuse university con1ments most favorably on the conduct of Union's eleven in the recent football game with that university. Frank Holleran, '95, was married last Mon- day to Miss Mary Todd of Schenectady. They will reside at Newport. Mr. Holleran was captain of the track athletic team during his 1 junior year. Dow Vroman, '87, is the democratic ,mem- ber of assembly-elect from the first district of Niagara county. Mr. Vroman has previously served his county as district attorney. He is a brother of Guy Vroman, '98. Organized 1858. Incorporated. The largest membership of Lo s HINK...,.L\•AN J 0 ~· KLEIN, any musical organization UI · .n. •u ' Director. in Albany. Ma.nager. lOTH REGT. MILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization bas for years played at Union, Hamiltt>n, Cornell, Williams, Middlebury, etc. Furnished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddings. Balls, Concerts, etc .• a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. HINKELMAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240. 75 State St., Albany. {'\~qsf.s ~ ~~!R{~Uil\f~(O)!NI5 /\ . \'--. and other cut flowers constantly on hand. . . . • 'a GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. .. HIGH GRADE SHOES .i --AT LOWEST PRICES.- 8415 State St. P A. T'rON & HALL. W. tc L .. :E. ·CURLEY, 514 FULTON ST., TROY, N.Y. La;rgest lanllfa.cturers in America . I • I • • • o:f E1lgtne·ers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dea.l'ers in Drawing I ustru1nents and Materials. * J 'N~RAVEKJ, * ..----ALBANY, N. Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CU:IS'I:NE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $~.50 a.nd Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. 8. D. 'WYATT~ CO., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY., \The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine ass<>r-tment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger .Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee:\s Cakes and Crackeri • Telephone ~8. 601-60S UNION STREET.

14 ------ADVERTISEMENTS.--..- Yates' B'oat B·ouse. The la.r:ge~t and best equipped in the 'State. Excel~ lent Danomg Hall, which can be ·rented for Private Parties Only, iu connection with house. 29 Front Street,. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. COAL The Celebrated .D. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEEI>E,R BR'OS., No. 424 STATE STREET. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton}, ~ PHOTOGRAPHER, ~ and dealer in Cameras and Photogra:p:h,ic Supplies. STUDIO, .JAY ST·REIET. Fir~t·class work done at the Studio for pPpular prices. Specia;l attention given to out-of·door grouping. GrosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broadway, Telephone 482. ALBANY, N.Y. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 :SJi~f.[YTE 1\ D:Eri(E]'!FE<:;l{, ·-- wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}!L al]d W·E>®B Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 300, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St .. and li'ertilizers. Scbeneotady, N. Y. Wade & Co., FLE>~ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN L..A.NE, L. T. CLUTE,---- H,ATT:ER AND\ FURRIER. Also, TTunks, Bags, .Suit Oases, Gloves, Umbrellas, Canes, Etc. 227 8TA1'E 8TREE1'. At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE :[!] w (f; ln \t/ :{j; :[!} No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. 'The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ..... _........__THOMAS HAS THE BEST. UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDS.OME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 wan Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. .'l

_., ' I .· THE C.ONO,ORDIENSIS~. 15 ==================r=============--·---· ------ DASE BALLI S:uppUes. Spalding League :Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers sbou.ld send for samples and special rates.. Every requi- :site for 'Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equiprnents and Out- fits. :Complete Catalogue of spring and S,ammer Sports free. ''The Name the ·Guarantee.\ A. G. SPALDING & BBOS., NewY~:u~icago, WIE:NCKE'S--.. QomEL GE~MANIA AND ~ESfl!AU~ANTJ.l. BrLLIARDS, POOL AND EOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GENT'Rf\L PHARMA8Y, CoR. STATE ST . .AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, MertJhant Tailor. No. 23.'1 State St., SOHBNEOTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. tfNI®N eOLLEGE BBOK EXeJ1J\NSE. All College Texts, Draugllting lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary ::ollege supplies. :PlCK·F··O~RD· !BROS., Union Market. DEALE·RS· IN ALL FRESI-I MEATS .AND P·OULTRY. ~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. '602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE XEAT~S, POULTRY, ETC. '53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retai'l FISH, OYS'1ERS AND CLAMS, 1'02 So. CENTRE ST. Co1nn1ission dealers' in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~8CHENE.CTADY CLOTHING CO., ... TEE LEADING .•• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotelllui'lding. A. G. HERRICK. The Arrlington Hat Co., 3()~ State l.~t., Seheneetady, N. Y. MANViFAGT''URERS OF HA'T8. Hats Cleaned and :Repaired. Wholesale and Retail. Morton House, Ta:OMAS VROOMAN, Prop. , 17 & l9 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Liver! and Boarding Stables Attached Table .Board $3.50 Per Week.

I I ; 1 I ·! 16 -.ADVERTISEMENTS.- THE A ONLY A F·LORISTS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS.· ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Intercollegiate Bureau tor ~ gAP~, &OWN~ AND HOODS •. · Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL AND LEONARD, 472-478 :Broadway, · AL:BANY,N.Y. . 9. ~. l\.1.f~~EN., -a-~., Men's . . Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. P. F. McBREEN 4all 4nsfti01fS a11d 4abfits READY FOR YOUR INSPECTION AT JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR 'TAILOR. fl. 35 MAIDEN LANE, AL13ANY, N. Y. G. A. USTI N ENGRAVING co., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochronie. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. F. A. VanVranken. F. VanVranken. VF\N VRANKEN BROS., lMPORTf!ING <9AILO~S, 48 NORTH PEARL Srr., Notman Building. ALBANY N v ., • I • 218 William St., New York R. T. MOIR, ~~· ~===-­ soaKs, FINE 81'AI'IONERY, PIC'fVRE FRAMING, WAL,L PAPERS, E1'c. AL::AYD~ PRINTER a~Es A RgsEs, GU'f FLOWERS FURNISHED 111' SHORI' NOI'IGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENOY .•.•• 888 State St., Schenectady, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL--- HEAD-TO- FOOT. RLBANY, t'l. Y. ~SAUL.

~~~ t\.:, •. ,.._ The oncordiensis. ':· .. VoL. XXI. ;. PUBLISHE'D WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. NOVEMBER 19, 1897. No. 9 ..

l I i ! i l I I l l \ I t I I l l 2 -ADVERTISEMEN'TS ------ UNION C·O·LLEGE. \.- ~ .ANDBIW V. V. IA.!KOND, D. D., LL, D., Praaide%1t, UNION COLLEG:E., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, iBcluding French and German:. .After Sepho- more year the work is largely elecMve. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. 8.--'The modern languages. are .substituted for the ancient and the amount ot Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a. large list of electives. is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. E._:This differs from the .A. B. course chiefly in the omis~i<m of Greek and the eubstitution therefor of additional work. in modern lana:uages and ecience. 4:. Gen~:ral Course Leadil\g to the Degree .of B. E.- This course is intended to .give the basis of an Engineering edueation, including the fundamental pl'inciples of all Special bran(}hea of the profession, a knowledge. of both French and German, and a. full course .in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.-- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Eni,tineering for some of .the General Engineering 1tudies. 6. Electrical Course Leading ~to tlte Degree of B. E.- This di:tfers from Course~ in substituting special work in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. \/. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to rraduatea of Oourl!e 4:, 5 or 6. There are aleo special courses in .Analytical Chemistry, lfetallur~y and Natural History. For catalogues or for apeeial lnformat10n address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. T. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- struetio:u.a by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenilea.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, SlOO: perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25 ; dissectint fee, $10; laboratory course, e;1.ch. $10. :For Circular address WILLIS G. ~ 1 UCKER, M.D., Re\istrar .Albany, N.Y. DEPART:MENT OF LAW. A.lban:r· Law School.-This department iB locat.ed at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a buildin= wholly d~Totea to it1 use. The ecmrse is <me year, divided into two 1emestera. Expen1e1.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For Mt&loe~es or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N'. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Jb.erclle• held in AlbaJJ.y Medical CoHere. Annual lecture term commencu Monday. Oct. 5. For cata.lorue and informa- &1011. &ddrHI DK BAUN VAN AKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, =Hamilton St. Gentlemeq • • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and most modern :Boot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 STATE ST .. , COR. WALL. 1 ' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the lure~t oft l)rug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9HE ... €DISON I)omEU, ........~-Schenectady, N. Y. C111trally located, a1td tlu: Large . .;t a11d Best .Appointed Hotel in the ct'ty. Heat/quarters for Commercial Travellers and Tour1'1t1 8Hf\8. BROWN, PROPRIE10R,

The Co11cordiellsis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, NOVEMBER 19, 1897. No. 9. Se:rub .Defeats flm.sterdam. While the 'Varsity eleven were resting last Saturday the second eleven, composed of five •. sophomores, five freshmen and one senior, were adding another victory to the record of Union's football games this season. The scrub's opponents were a team represent- ing the best football talent of the city of Atnster- dam. The team was practically the same wh.ich the 'Varsity last year played, and a comparison of the scores of the two games shows that · Captain Crichton's teatn is buperior to Captain Palmer's of last year. The 'Varsity last year won from ..ctn1sterdan1, 18-6; and this season's . scrub team repeated the victory by a score of 6-o. The best playing for Amsterdatn was done by Stover and Mason, while for Union the greatest gains were made by Fenton and Mallory. The game was a good one, and the only disagreeable feature was the surging out • upon the Held of the spectators. If this had not happened, the score might have been larger, as . under the circun1stances end plays were almost . impossible. Amsterdam won the toss-up and chose· ~the west goal, with the wind in their favor. The ball was kicked off by Stover and t·eturned 20 yards. By mass plays on the Union line the hall was brought to the 15 yard. line where . Union took it on downs. The scrub then gained considerable ground but could get no nearer .their opponents' goal than the 40 yard line, and when titne was called for the first half the ball was in the center of the field. Union kicked off in the second half, and Stover returned the ball and broke through the H11e several times for good gains. Union was unable to gain on the first down and Nevins kicked., but w:as blocked by Fredendall who broke through \ the line. The ball was again passed for a ld ck 1 and Nevins made a beautiful punt which, aided by the wind, covered 6o yards. Amsterdam lost the baH on downs and by a series of tnass plays MaBery was pushed over the line for a touch- down, and also kicked a goal. After the next kick-off, Amsterdam took the ball on downs when it had been brought to their 40 yard line. Seve~·al gains were made through the Union line but the best that they could do was to push the playing into Union's territory, and when time was ·Called the hall was on the scrub's 45 yard line, leaving the score Union 6, Amsterdan1 o. The line-up of the teams was as follows: AMSTERDAM 0. UNION 6. ·sugden .............. center ................. Closs Winnie ............. right guard ............ Miller H a1·t. . . . . . . . . . ...... left guard ............ Tuggey Fredendall ......... right tackle ........... Fenton Williams ........... left tackle ............. CaTver Johnson ............. right end ............. Erown S1nith ....... _ ........ left end ............ Th~tcher Cregg ............ right half back .......... Mallory Stover ............ left half back ......... Robinso~ Bellinger ............ full back ............... Paige Mason ............. quarter back ........... Nevin~ Referee-Dunham, 1900. Umpire-· Mr. Cald- well. Timekeeper-Mr. Maroney. Linesmen~ Kline, 1900, and Leaven worth, 1901. Tim.e of game -Two 15 minute halves Touchdown-Mallory. Goal from touchdown-Mallory. New Boo~s . ''The Jesuit Relations and Allied Docu- ments,\ Vol. viii., R. G. Thuaites; \ The Beginners of a Nation,\ Edward Eggleston ; '' Kinematics,\ C. 1\f. 1\.faclord ; '' Colonial Laws of New York,\ Cotnmission of Statutory Revision ; '' Report of the U. S. Corn missioner of Education,\ W. T. Harris; \ Iogth Annual Report of the Regents of the University;\ '' Natural History of N. Y. Paleontology,'' James Hall.

I I ! \ I ' ~ i : i l' 'I :I '' 'i ' ' ' i I I ; I I i l i I 4 THE CONOORDIENSIS. OQ Bolts. Editor Conct>rdz·ensz\s : \ May a bolt frotn heaven pass through tny :: head,\ is the not infrequent plaint of the sorrow- ! stricken in ancient song, that wou!ld find release : in death. The bolts that prevail at Union col- ! lege, are not frotn heaven, but when they pass : through the head, and fructify ht action, they · m.a:ke as great havoc in the brain as if they were Zeus hurled levin. . They are twice cursed : once in the taking and once in the taking of the consequences. · They are cursed in the taking, because they • spring from sedition, breed sedition and bring . forth the fruits of sedition. They come from the lawless, are lawless then.1selves, and make others law less. ·They are cursed in the taking, because tJtey strike at the very root of all scholarly impulses. Scholarship does not consist simply in staying up nights to study. It is not made up of acts alone. It is a fran1e of n1i nd as '\Yell, and insti- ~utions li~e individuals, have it or have it not. Now all colleges in theory at least, exist pri- marily for purposes of study and the cultivation of scholarship, and in son1e few studying is ~ctuall y done, and scholarship is as actually cultivat~d, but in no true sense may this be said of any college where bolting is rife, and every passing breeze cries '' Bolt ! \ The two things ate mutually destructive. This thing called bolt ('-'Yould it were from heaven, and would strike down the clamorous, or at least give them the lockjaw) is cursed in the taking of the consequences, because it visits the follies of the foolish upon the weak and the strong; upon the weak who least can stand the visitation, and upon the strong who can stand better without it. And further, how do they feel to the boltee. 'Badly, no doubt. But perhaps that is the in- tention as the guide said to the tourist who re- ·marked upon certain worshippers that they were ''praying to beat the devil.'' · But not to speak of the feelings of the boltee, 'or the bad language or bad tetnper provoked in hrm, what very poor politics it all is, for boltee is only human, and sometimes very human too. Now h:ere is a tradition meet for destn:totion, and for the very si IR ple reason that it .militates against the best interests of the coilege. I won- der if we shall some day learn that the growt11 of a coHege consists in part, of gettin:g dd of htntful traditions·? Your o bedi:ent servant, PHLOX. As the winter- dt·aws near, the students have begun. to think of banquets, and there seem·s to be a rnore considerable interest taken in .this re- gard this year, than for some years past. One of the influences which had tnuch to do with tn,aking the class of ninety-seven such a credit to the college, was the fact that every year while in coBege the class held a banquet. On these occasions the 1nen1 bers of the class would conJe together and enjoy themselves and the results would be a closer feeling among the rnen of the class, a stronger love for their Alina Mater, and much 1nore class spirit. Thi~ year the freshrnen have already ban- queted. The seniors have not yet taken any action on the tnatter but there has been a strong feeling among the class in favor of holdjng a banquet. The juniors at a 1ueeting three weeks ago selected a banquet cotnmittee composed of Vander Veer, Champion, Sylvester, Cotton and Hegetnan. The committee have been making arrangements and announce a banquet to be held on January 21. The sophomores, too, had decided to banquet and President Hubbard has appointed as a committee to have charge of the matter, Francis, Lawton, Van Vlack, Tinning and Kruesi. The whole matte1· was brought to a head at the college meeting on Monday tnorning when it was decided that the three upper classes w'ould cotnbine and hold one banquet and with this in view a committee of two men from the senior class, and one each fro1n the junior and sophomore classes, was appointed to make arrangements for a college banquet to be held some time during tl1e winter term.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. W. F. Sheehan, 190L, spent Sunday at his h c:>rne in Troy. :Green, ,99, has been initiated into the Kappa A.Tpha fratet·nity. W. S. NcEwan,. '95, of Albany spent Mon- ~lay night with friends on the hilL Ayrau1t, 1901, who has been suffering from typhoid fever has resumed class work. Prof. Pollard has neanly completed the an- tllropotnetric measurelll'ents of the freshman ·class. rrhe class of I90I received an examination in :s-oUd geometry frotn P:rof. Opdyke, Tuesc4ty . o3orn1ng. 1'he fifty-second annllal convention of the Oe~ta Kappa Epsilon fraternity will be held in ~C~hicago, Novernber 21 to 24. Prof. Bennett's sophor1!lore class in Alcestis tTied final exatnination l'll'esday morning. The eJass will n.ow take up Euripides Medea. PresideHt Hubbard of the sophomore class has appointed the banquet committee as follows: Francis, chainnan; V atil Vlack, Kruesi, Law- ton and Tinning. The annual convention. of the Delta Upsilon fraternity rnet with the .A~nherst chapter October 2r and 22. The convention will meet next year ~ith the Pennsylvania elba pter at Philadelphia. Yale has a coach for e'Very man on the team. Cornell will add a stl·aightaway track for ~prints, to her athletic fieTd. The College ofMexieois fifty years older than Harvard, being the oldest in Atnerica. Compulsory ~'gym\ -work has been added to the Yale ~curriculum fo1· the freshtnan class. Yale is about to build a new grand stand on its athletic grounds, capable of seating 1s,zoo people. O:r. Newton BatemeEt, president of Knox college for seventeen years and an educator of national reputation, diea last week. 'Th.e :University of Cail ifornia expects to send a track tea:m east this coming spring. Nearly eighty men are in training for the team. Harvard and the University of California have arranged for an inter-collegiate chess match, by telegraph, to be played in a few weeks. Thotnas W. Stanford, a brother of Leland Stanford, deceased, has donated $3oo,ooo to build a library for the University which bears the family na.me. At a recent meeting of the student body .at WiUiams it was decided to put the managentent of athletics in the hands of a committee of nine, composed of three faculty, three alumni, and three undergraduate mernbers. In the long course of years that Cambridge and ·Oxford have met in athletic sports they have never had a dispute of any kind. Enjoy- ing sport for sport's sake, they are never led by a desire to vvin to e1n ploy questionable tactices. The natne of Princeton university was given from the f~1ct that Henry Prince, of Piscataway, owned in 1711 two hundred acres of ground where Princeton now stands. As it becan1e populated the nan1e \Pri nee's Town\ was given. Subsequently this became ''Pdnceton. We see by the Woodstock, Vermont, paper of October 25th, that ~Irs. Chas. Jameson of Norwich, Vern1ont, has started a cat farm to furnish Dartmouth College with the cats which the students have heretofore been accustotned to steal for vivisection frotn their owners in tb~tt vicinity.-Ex. Tulane university, which, on account of the prevalent yellow fever in New Orleans, has been compelled to keep its doors closed thus far \ during the present college year, expects to re- open about Dec. 1. Considerable losses have been sustained by the university through many of the students entering northern universities. The University of Virginia is probably the only institution of learning in the country thHt. has never had a president, that office being filled by one of its professors chosen by the faculty from year to year. A majority of the alumni, however, now favor the establishment of the office of president and it is rumored that Ex- President Cleveland will be tendered the newly created position.

. I \ i i I: ;': I 'I . ~ I . ' • 1 I: ·I ', l i' il· I i I :' THE CONO~ORDIE'NSIS. ITHE ~C'ONCORDIEN:SIS. PUBLISH~D EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STlTD:EN'rS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD rQF EDITORS. PERLEY PooRE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CH::A.RLES J- VR:o OMAN, '98, · Business Manager CA.R.L HAMNER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JOHN L. SHER\W()OD Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHA:NLPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD~ '99, G. c. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. RJ£PORTORIAL STAFF. LOYIS TINNING, 1900, P. L THOMSON, 1900, D. w. PA.TGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. fact it is well worthy augmentation-that aU games in this vicinity, or by visiting teams be pF~yed on the earn pus. We are inclined to believe that the students would find it n1uch ·cheaper to pay for seeing all ga1nes on the campus than to pay a bi·g assessin•ent eYery year. \Ve belieYe the ntanage- ment would find it better business to remain in Schenectady with no expenses and hearty support than to go to Albany to capture high expenses and little support. The history of Albany games is one long record of deficit and shabby treatment. Now that th.e initiative has been taken, anoth.er course is open for trial. This rnuch is certain- nothing can be lost. SA'EURDAY, on the campus, there will be played TERMS : 1 the last gam.e of the season. The game wiH be a 'CONCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance ba1·done so that while no disgr·ace can follow de- Single Copies~ - 10 Cents PA.RTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in Advance fea·t, certainly great honor wiU follow victory. If Both Papers ~t() one Address, $2.50 per Year, in the undergraduates have been guilty at times of Advance. Address aH corntnunications to THE CoNCORD!· ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. •E.ntered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. :Barrows, Pri.nter, 332 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. NOTliCE 'TO CONTRIBUTORS. All copy intended for insertion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDA.Y noon. To Doctor Jones, the Concordiensis on beha1f of the student body extends a cordial greeting. We insufficient support and enthusiasm, this is a last grand opportunity for vindication. In spite of a few defeats, froin a standpoint of pure football and high-class sport there need be shed no tears. Fron1 the Robart garue the whole season will re- ceive its pe1·manent color. So it is of the greatest importance that every man in college render his utmost assistance to the tearn, not only by appearing on the ca1npus with a frie11d or two, but when there, by making his pr~sence kno\vn. Coaching the team fron1 the side-lines is an abomination. But \good systematic rooting\ is always in order. The ruemb~rs of the 'Varsity have done all they trust his connection -with Union's faculty will be a can. Now let all other students do all they can! long one. THERE is an abundance of nutriment in the open letter appearing in another column. Those who could s-wallow it and digest it with great benefit to themselves and to the college fan1ily are by no Inean.s a m inorH y . THE precedent established this year by the foot- ballinanagetneilt in having the closing game of the season played on the can1pus is certainly an A DISAGREEABLE state of affairs is often allowed to continue because the attention of the proper authorities is not called to the matter. Then, too, the p~oper authorities often have but scant oppor- tunity for observing certain facts patent to every undergraduate. As an instance of this, consider the insufficient care taken of the sections. There is not a janitress on the hill, as we apprehend it, who does not try to establish a record for speed rather than thoroughness. The speed has been ·excellent one. It is well worthy hnitation. In often remarhed.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. This has resulted. in robbing the~ sections of just , ; about nine-tenths of their desirability as a place of abode. Fre51}:ma:Q ·~lass ffleetiQ~~. The freshman ciass held a meeting Monday afternoon in the college chapel. A class-pin The fact of the matter is, the dor~matory facilities at Union, apart fro,m the need of a, few modern ;, i was adopted, and also a cut for the Garnet. improvements, are really excellent fo1· a college of , Several committees made reports, in which the her size. But under present circumstances, when banquet was pronounced a success. The \cane\ rooms refuse to be conjured to cleanliness by the won in the recent cane-rush, was cut into pieces glance of an eye, some sort of a change is becoming and distributed to the members of the class. imperative. We res:peotfuHy recommend that The subject of gymnasiu1n suits was also d~is­ records and rooms be investigated. cussed, and a cotn,mittee was formed to secure There is also a standing need for more nu~merous, prices from several clothing concerns. cleaner and better conducted bathrooms. To anyone not living on the hill the urgency of this is not perhaps so apparent. But to one who is forced to make the dor1natories his home, the equipn1ent of this h.nportant department of liberal education does seem sorely neglected. This applies chiefly to the South ~eoUege annex. Of the North college annex nothing here can be said. The following gifts, exceeding one 111iUion dollars, have been given by individuals to edu- cational institutions: Stephen GiTard to Girard college, $8,ooo,ooo ; John D. Rockefeller to Chicago university, $7 ,ooo,ooo ; Georg~ Pea- body to various foundations, $6,ooo,ooo; Leland Stanford to Stanford university, $5 ,ooo,ooo; Asa Packer to Lehigh university, $3,5oo,ooo; Charles Pratt to Institute of Berkeley, $2,ooo,- ooo; Paul Tulane to Tulane university, New Orleans, $r ,5oo,ooo ; Isaac Rich to Bos.ton uni- versity, $z,ooo,ooo; Jonas G. CJark to Clark university, Worcester, Mass., $z,ooo,ooo; the Vanderbilts to Vanderbilt university, $1,775,- ooo; Jarnes Lick to the University of California, $ r ,ooo,ooo ; John C. Green to Princeton, $r ,- 5oo,ooo; William C. De\Pauw to DePauw uni- versity, $r ,soo,ooo; A. J. Drexel to Industrial school, $r ,soo,ooo; Peter Cooper to Cooper Union, $r,zoo,ooo; Ezra Cornell and Henry W. Sage to Cornell university, each, $I,ooo,- ooo; President Low to ·Columbia, $r ,ooo,ooo. -Prlncetonian. \The great matter is to learn to rule oneself.\ - Grethe. Another new& paper is soon to make its appear- ance in Schenectady, the initial number of ol which is to appear on December 5· The paper will be published every Sunday morning, wiU be independent in politics and will be christ- ened The Sunday News.' The paper is to be edited by Edwin G. Conde, '93, forn1erly editor of the .Daily Gazette. The business end will be in charge of Charles P. Marlette. It is needless to say that the News will be bright, up-to-date, a.nd of especial interest to the students. Brail), £iq~t aQd Dreams. Professor Scripture, of Yale, has found rea- son to think that the faint light which we can see in darkness or with closed eyes, and which appears in the fonn of rings, waves and irregu- lar figures, is due, not as is generally supposed, to chemical changes going on in the retina, but to something occun·ing in the brain, and he pro- poses to call it \cerebral light.\ It appears to be located \in those higher centers of the brain which are connected with visual tnemories and itnaginations.\ A close connection has been observed between these cerebral-light figures and the contents of dreams, and Prof. Scripture suggests that the hallucinations produced by drugs, like hashish, may be simply modifications of such figures.

I I<, q; I: . ll, . i I ' I I ' I ' ' I ' ~ ( ' · t I . I ' ~ I '' '' '' I '. ! J 8 -ADVERTISEMENTS.------- The complete personnel of the musical clubs as decided upon by the leaders and management will this year be as fo11o.ws : Glee Club: F. C. 1viacMahon, leader, Clay, Bagnall, Ostrom, Weed, 1901, Kuker, 1901, Grant, 1901, Ripley, 1900, Hi'ld, '98, W. C. Yates, '98, Eames, ~99, Cooper, 1900, Gutman, '98 ; Heermance, 1901, pianist. Mandolin Club: H. J. McClure, leader, Mark, '99, James, Heermance, 1901, Bradford, '98, Gutman, '98, Eatnes, '99, Ripley, 1900, Hubbard, 1900, Haggart, '98, Pike, 1900, J. S. Stewart, 1900. Banjo Club: C. D. Stewart, 1900, leader, Hinn1an, '99, Heennance, 1901, Bender, 1900, Kline, 1900, Stewart, 1900, Pike, 1900, Hag- gart, '98. The clubs will tnake their initial perform- ance December 10, in the Van Curler opera house in this city. W'ho is .•• C. GOETZ? The only Tailor i:n Schenectady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and 'Vinter. CALL AND SEE TI-IEM. INSURANCE. EVERY DESCRIPTION, B. CLEVELAN',O SLiOA.N, 424 ST A.''rE STREET. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coflee and Mille G. E .. B01:HAM, 214 CLINTON 81'. KEELER'S rC\!\ . • EUROPEAN • I HOTEL AND RESTAURANT, Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N .. Y. _ ........ • • QENTLEMEN ONL T. 250 ROOMS. • .• Ladi;~s Restaurant Attached ..• • • 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- tl:tt:f and pueam ~leanin~ and 'Qyeing Wo:ttl\s. Alterations ::and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to .Students. First-class work guaranteed. Goods called foT and delivered free of charge. cJAGOB RINDFLEISCH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENEC1'ADY, N. Y. .. HIGH GRADE SHOES .. -AT LOWEST PRICES.-- Open unti19 P.M. Work done at. short notice. 245 State St. PATTON & HALL.

------.ADVERTISEMENTS.- The University Publishing company is get- ting out a new series of .standard works for supplementary read1rrg in Grammar and High schools. Professor Hale has been asked by the publishers to edit several of the works and several which he has edited hav:e been recentry published. They a.1e: • 'Evangeline ;\ \Knick- erbocker Stories,\ e0Uected fr.orn Washington Irving's writings on the Dutch days in New York; Poems of Knightly Adventure, in- cluding \Gareth and Lynette,\ •'Sohrat and Rustum,\ ' 4 Haratilils/'' and \T'he Vision of Sir Launial,\ with inti 1 oductory notes on Poetic Diction in 4 'The Lady of the Lake,\ and on the ''Metre in PoenTs from Tennyson.\ In ' these volumes the ./teste milieu of annotation seems to have been 11eached and they ~re being very favorably receiv.ed. Organized 1858. Incorporated. J K The largest Dem bership of L H A o~. LEIN\ any musical organization · OUIS INKELM N, Director. in.. A.Jbany. Manager. 10TH REGT. MIL\I'rA.lfY :BAND AJSD ORCHESTRA. This organization has for f\€ars played at Union, Hamilton, Corn€11, Williams, Middlebury etc. FunJ<ished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddtngs, Balls, Concerts., etc., a specialty. Address, LOlJIS F. HINKELMAN, Mgr., Teleph.one 1240. 7 5 State St., Albany. }~Q~f~ ~ ~UlliR\~~Tll(OINJ~ /\\ ~ and other cut :fiow€rs · \'\ constantly on hand .•..• Mrsn GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rente~ .a.ne Repaired. 307 S~.A_TE STREET. G®WDRIN.GS~ POPUL.A..B FLORISTS. CHRYSANTHEI~IS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 30 NORTH PEAltt :STREET. ALBA NY, N. Y. W. tc L. E. CURLEY, 514 FULTON: ST., TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers in lmerica . . . . . . . of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. .Also dealers in Drawing 1nstrurnents and Materials. liB f!:..Y. .. !:-..§. ____ ~--- s 0 N~ * BiQRAVEKJ, * -------ALBANY, N. Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISlNE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. 8. D. WYATT~ CO., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY, \.The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. ..-.r • -------L. D. 'rELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET .

10 Yateis·' Boat House. The largest :and best equipped in theS:ta.te. 'Excel- lent Dancing Hall, which ·can be rented fo~ Private Parties Only~ ;in c<mnectio.n -with house •. 29 Front .Street, SOH:EIN:EGTA.JfY,. N.Y. COAL---~-•r•r•s~r-- The Celebratea lJ. L. tr W. Coat. for sale .!Jy V'EEDE;R B:R·OS., No. 424 STATE STREE1. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), A PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and :Photog!raphic 511ip·:pt:ies. STUDI:O, JAY .S'l'R.EET. First-class work done at the Studio for :popular prices. Special attention .given to 0ut-of-door grouping. Grose IA & GA R'TLA ND' s ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broad way, ..ALB.ANY, N. Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' Colle~e, '91 to '97 Cornell University, .. 90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 l3.R:~r!YTE ~ QErilEIN!'E~l\, •- Wholesale and Retail Dealers in e ·O 1J L and ., .• tC>a I:;\ n . . . . ~ ., ~· ~~~ Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, 'I 306,308 and 310 Union, Feed~ Grain, Baled Hay, Straw · 209 and 211 Dock St •. and Fertilizers. · Schenectady, N. Y. Wade & Co,., FL®F\ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T .. CLUTE,--........._ HATTE~R AND 'FUR·RIE·R. .A.lso, T'l'uinks, Ba-gs . ., !;uit Ca,ses, Glo11e-s, V'mbr~lla3, Can.e11, .Ete. 227 STA'fE s·n~·EET. At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE [!] {j; {jJ w {jJ rB No. 115 North Pear.l St., ALBANY,. :N.Y. You will 'find the 'W ..ASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. ';i'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis~ count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms <>n PIANOS. __.._ __ T.HOM·AS HAS THE ·BEST. EMBOS·SE D _.,IINII'IIIIII\ UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, BY T'H-E QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NEW AND HANDS01VlE DIES. CHAS. BURROWS PRINTE.R, 322 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings., Receptions, etc .. Ice ·Cream and Ices co.ns tantly on hand. ALB..AlrY, N. Y. 104-106 wan S:treet, SCHE:KECTAD.Y, N. T.

. . THE CONOO.RDIENSIS. 11 Supplies.. Spalding League Ball, :MJts, Masks, etc. Managers should send for sam :pies and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, 'rrack and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Con1plete Catalogue of spring and Summer Sports free. '' The N arne the Guarantee . \ A. G. SPALDIN'.G & :BROS., New y;:i 1 f.bicago, W·I·ENCKE'S--.. l)oTitEIJ GE~MANIA AND ~ESTitAU~ANTl!. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Libertv Sts. . BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S CEN1'RAL PHA'RMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Ta,ilor. No. 23'11Jtate St., IJCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHA.UNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. BNieN eoLLEGE B00K EXeJiJ\NGE. 2l lefei YSI All College Texts, Draughting lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary :ollege.supplies. :PICiKFO~RD BROS., Union Market DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTRY. ·~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS .AND CLAMS, 102 so. CENTRE ST. Co1nn1ission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits . ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., • • • THE LE.A.DI N G • • . ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICK • UNI:ON R·ESTAURANT •. ' C.or.. Centre and Franklin Sts. 2.1· M:eals $3. Prom,p.t Service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- THE A ONLY. F,L,ORISTS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CtJT., 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST .AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. ft. ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College wol!k a 'Specialty. S. E. ~~~~~R~ ~R., Men's . . Furnishing Go~ods. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALEANY, N. Y. P.F.McBREEN Jiall Jiasqioqs iit(d IJabtfiCS READY ]'OR YOUR INSPECTION AT JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. F. A. VanVranken. 35 MAIDEN LANE, AL13ANY, N. Y. IN'rERCOLLEG IA'rE EUREATJ' FoR CAPS, GOWNS & HOODS Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL & ·LEONARD, 472-4:78 B'way. ALBANY, N.Y. F. VanVranken. VANVRANKEN BROS., lMIVO~lJ.liNG <9AILO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL 8'r., Notman Building. ALBANY, N, Y, 218 William St.,. New York R. T. MOIR, ~~===­ .BooKs, FINE 8'T'A'T10NERY, PIG'fUR E FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, E-rG. AL::AYDSY PRINTER --- ---- \ELKES A RgSES, GUT FLOWERS FURNISHED A'l' SHORT' NOT'IGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENCY •.••. 883 State St., Schenectady, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL HEAD-TO- FOOT. -· ALBANY, N. Y. ~SAUL.· ..

