T.he Vo:L. XXII. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. JULY 1, 1899, No~ 33, COM·MENCEMENT NU.MBER.

., l --· ADVERTISEMENTS.----- I' ;: TilE TRIPLE .ILLII·NCE.- SF * *QUALITY, * * ' ' ****D. ES. IGN, **PRICE, ;· rules at our store. Here are to be found all vari- eties of FURNITURE \ ! tor students' use. We k~ep all grade~ but the :· ~owest quality starts at good and goes on up. No ' · better goods-No better prices. Want your trade? The latest importations direct from England. ~· Not unless we can :give you as much or more for your money than any other fellow. SPECIAL ATTENTION ALWAYS GIVEN TO STUDENTS BY .... • • • c. GOETZ, TAILOR, . A. BROWN & SON, 3 Ce:•tral Arcade, Schenectady, N. V. 302 STATE ST. Home Ere~ed •• • • AND • • • • Bitter Beers. All our Ales are brewed from the finest materials that money will buy and no substitutes for malt or hops are ever used. The consumer can therefore always rely upon getting an article that is absolutely pure and consequently a health- ful beverage. The bitter beer is for sale in bottles by 34f5 TO 360 2nd .A.VEl'fUE, L.A.NSINGBURGH, N. Y. day strt pra e:xc $10C $10: is l1 bui de~ :sen oa1 ter ti0 A 4( 1 :::

the No for I, -ADVERTISEMENTS·- UNION COLLEGE .A:XDBIW T. T. l.l!KOND, D. D., LL, :o., '!reaident, DEPARTMENT OF MEDICIN:E. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- · day in September. Four years strictly graded co11:rse. In.- ': structio:ns by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and ~ practieal demonstrations and operations. Ciinica:l :a.dvanta\e~ · excellent. . Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; .annual lecture course, : $100.: pm·petual ticket,. $300: graduation fee, $25; ddssectin:; fee, $10; laboratory course, ea;ch, $10. For cir:cular a.d<iress WILLIS G. TUCKEn, M.D., Rei'Istrar, A·lbany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Schoo I.-This department of the· university is located at .Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the ' .deg-ree of LL. B., is two years, each year is dtvided into two :semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition. fee, $100. For catalogues or other information,. addresl!l J. N:mWTON FIERO, Dean. . .A.L:BANY LAW SCHOOL, ..A!lba.ny, N\. T. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHAR<MACY. Exercises held in '.Albany Medical CoHere. .Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For ca.taloru• and informa- ti0:n address DB B.AUN TAN .A.Jr.EN, Ph. G., f!eeretary, = Ha.milto:n St. FRED A. DANKER, MAIDEN LANE ~ FLOR.IST.I~ AM·ERIGAN BEAU'T'IES, VIOLE'T'S A'ND FANGY CARNf\'flON8 L. D. Telephone 108-3. Shipped at abort notice. 40 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. Dress Suits, Business Sui,ts, 0 vercoats, etc.. made to your order, by I +)· ADA:htr SA~. +-- . ' Fit and Workmanship Guaranteed. 173 HUDSON AVE., ALBANY, N.Y.· QlfiR.I'S SJ1>0E ST®R.E -HEADQUARTERS FOR- FINE F00TWEJ\R.. 311 State St., Cor. Wall. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar~ and the lure6t of JJrugt. AT LYON'S DR:UG STQR,E, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. (9HE ... €DISON I)OJilELI, ..-. Schenectady, N.Y. The Largest and Best App<>inted Hotel in the city. Headquarters for Sons and Frienda of \Old Union,\ Touriata and Commercial Travellers. Edison Hotel Barber Shop, F. E. Dwyer, Prop. ',:' \'; ~ I ,, . i .- 'l '

,, ,t --.ADVERTISEMENTS.------ College Men SHOULD WEAR THE COLLEGE DRESS -BOOT- PATENT LE.ATI-fER BUT'T;ON. $3.50 JOB. FEAREY & SON, 23 and 25 No. Pearl St., .A..LE..A.l....::r\Y. N.. Y. Specialists in college footwear. FRATERNITY Pir~S * ••• AT ••• * BICKELMI-IHM' 5, THf J!!.\VELE!I., 255 STATE STREET, ·=·--· Schenectady, N. V. B}lSS' t:~R=. S~ITJ~ & Blfl\T0N Ji_LES. ·Concert by Prof. DeStefano's Orchestra every Friday a.nd Saturday evening at NICK KADEL'S, 418 liT ATE &TREET. E:R.ASTUS C. CLEMI·SHIRE, A·ROHITECT, Sc·HENECTADY., :N. Y .• UiNlO:N BA;LL 8LOC'K .• STATE STREET. W . . Manufacturers of High-Grade Frater- ·RlC H T n:tty EIJ?.blems, F!aternity J~welry, Fra ter:rnty Novelties, Fratern.tty Pro- KAY •~ C·O grams, Fraternity Stationery, Frater- . ·QL. • nity Announcements Fraternity Invi- tations. Send for ':cataloiue and Price-Ust. Special desi:ns on application. ::1.40-14!1 Wo•flward ~vo., DETBOZT, MICH. Union Clothing Co. ~--ALBANY, N. ¥ .. --....._ FALL STOCK COMPLETE. Agents for the '' Stein Bloch Clothes. '' Be&t in the world. FURNISHINGS, HATS, ETC. Ten per cent. reduction to students.- Visit The Union. The \Ten Eyck,\ Eositivelr Fire Proof. American and European Flu•. O:PENS l:BOUT APRIL FIB.S'l'. H. J. ROCX'WELL & SON, .ALBANY, N. :Y. Also H t I K American proprietors 0 e . enmore plan, moder- of J ate rates. Roses ! Violets ! Carnations ! 10 No. PEARL ST. ALBANY, N.Y. L.ONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE, 156-2. Our facilities for shipping choice and FRESH CUT BLOOMS promptly and quickly are exceptional. :::::::::: , sea de~ a 11 ffi{ un de~ an1 hir de: de S:k to, by de Br ch th co of de te1 n} m

ry, er- in The2 Co11cordieJlsis VoL. XXII. UNION COLLEGE, JULY l,. 189 1 9. No. 33. IN MEM.ORIAM. •• • HAQOLD MA:QTIN SKIDM.O~E. The joys of the approaching cotnmencernen.t season were saddened by the news of the sudden death by drowningof Harold Martin Skidmore, a 1 nember of the :classical division of the fresl11.- man chi'ss. This sad fatality occurred Saturday, Jvne 17, in the BinnekiH, a branch of the Mohawk. With three fellow collegians Skid- more was bathing near the shore. He was unable to swim and suddenly got beyond his depth. He struggted violently calling for help, and his companions made every effort to save him but were unsuccessful. The body was recovered shortly afterwards and retnoved to the college chapel, where a death watch was kept by the classtnates of the deceased. The young tnan's father, Mr. T. B. Skidmore of Southold, Long Island, arrived in town on the foUowing Monday, accompanied by George Vail Edwards, a cousin of the deceased and fonnerly an instt·uctor at Union. Brief but impressive services were held in the chapel, the Rev. Mr. Statha1n officiating. A large delegation of students accotnpanied the ren1ains to the railway station and every respect was shown for our deceased co1nrade. At a special meeting of the class of r 902, a comtnittee was appointed to draw up resolutions of respect and Messrs. Baiz and Oakley were delegated to attend the funeral. Mr. Skidmore was a student of high charac- ter and excellent scholarship and his death. is mourned by every man in college. He vvas a man with a definite aim in life and had he lived would certainly have made his mark in the world. ?;lj~· Baieea:lallr~at~ .SermorJ. The [02nd commencement of the coUege was begun. on Sunday, June 25., with the 'baccalau- reate serrnon to the graduating class by Presi- dent Ra. ymond. The .exercises took place in the · First Presbyterian church and that edifice was fiBed to ov·erflowing. ·On the platfortn beside the city clergy sat the Rev. Dr. ·Catneron Me-· Kenzie, president of Elmira college. Dr. Raymond took for his text, Matthew, 10:8, ' 4 Freely ye have received, freely give.\ He spoke in part as follows : These words gain speciai appropriateness for this occasion, from the fact that they were spoken by our Lord to his disciples when he was sending them forth to engage in their first serious work as his ambassadors. They had enjoyed peculiar advautages through their fellowship with him, and perhaps had thought little of what these advant- ages involved. '''Freely ye have received, freely give.\ It is the principle asserted in these words that is to have our though! this evening. They teach us the obHgation that inheres in possession, a principle with which -vve have become familiar but which we have only begun to appreciate and apply. It n~ay be called the distinctive principle of Christianity, the largest interpretation of the gospel on its ethical side. There is nothing in the decalogue that suggests it save by implication. It had little to do with the righteousness required in in the old testatnent, which necessarily put the emphasis upon prhnitive and fundamental virtues. It re1nained for Christ to build upon this founda- ti011, to announce the higher law for the cotnpletion of human character, and so he added to the re- quirements of justice, honesty, purity, t:rttthful- ness, the crowning obligation of service, that a n~an 's possessions are not for hhnself alone, but for the world, that he is a debtor to others to just the extent that he has what they have not. We do not understand Christianity until we appreciate this teacl1ing. It is the burden of Christ's precepts, the l{ey to the tneaning of most of his parables, the end of all his patient training of his disciples. The first Christian church was a community in the strict sense. \No man .said that aught that he ''· i' i ' it: 1

THE CONCORbiENStS. had was his own but they had all things in commorl.\ Why, it may be asked, has not ,this conception of Christianity been more generally realized during these nineteen hundred years? Largely because the work of the church has been to establish the moral law. When the disciples left Jerusa1m they came at once into contact with paganism, and all historians agree in picturing that pagan world as morally corrupt. Puritanism was esse:atially .Judaism in a Christian dress and with a Christian nomenclature. The Puritan was virtuous and knew it. Puritanism reprod u:eed eighteeN hundred years after Christ many of the essential features of Judaism, and this is not to be .considered in any sense as an indictment against Puritanism or Christianity.. It was an absolutely necessary development from the moral barbarism of the world when Christianity began its mission. While time lasts the decalogue will be at the be- ginning of all ethical progress, and the first stage of that progress will be marked by a stern in- sistance upon the \thou shalt \ and ''thou shalt not\ of the moral law. The higher righteousness that formed the substance of Christ's distinctive teaching is valueless without this foundation. He built upon the Law and the prophets. Justice, truth, honesty, purity, are the first essentia~s of abiding character. Toignore them in the supposed interests of sympathy, mercy, unselfishness, charity, is to take all the 1noral :fibre out of these sublime :virtues. From the beginning property interests have ,created the great divisions in the human family and given the monied class tyrannical power. The doctrine of community of interests means therefore a declaration of independence in the in- dustrial world, and wherever there is tyranny that is equivalent to a declaration of war. It does not follow that the demands ·of justice can be met and peace secured only by the abdication of the money, or, as 1nany imagine, by the equal distribution of accumulated wealth. Revolutions of that kind end invariabiy in genera1 de1noralization and a reign of terror. All that the cause of liberty can legiti- mate1y demand is that power as it exists shall be used beneficently for the general good. The true spirit of liberty, equality, fraternity, is not hostile to power, but on~y to selfish power. Under Christ, distinction comes not with possession but with use. ''Whosoever will be great among you shall be your minister, and whosoever will be chiefest shall be servant of all. '' But to limit our thought of possessions to things material is to miss the larger meaning of this truth. There are few things less a man's own than his property. At best it is but an external things and may vanish in a night. His actual possessions are his intelligence,. his, energy, his .courage, his virtues, his faith and hope. In every just estimate of values these are worth more to him than his property, and are worth more to others; and we have not begun to appl'ehend the doctrine of Christ until we realize the oblig-ation that inheres in these possessions. Christ p:voclaitns the law of service, the obligation to use that which inheres in possessions of every kind, that the duty of the man who has, is to g-ive to the man who has not. Christianity sends the individual forth into the world with a command. ''Freelyye have received, freely give,'' and to just the' extent that son1e possessions are more valuable than others, to that extent is the duty that attaches to them more sacred and binding. It means more for the world that virtues shou~d be extended than that money should be distributed. The cause of huma,.n wretchedness,. the source of socia] evils, is not lack of bread, but lack of intelligence and industry, of courage and faith. Therefore to bestow these is the higher duty. Our century shows its Christian character in the growing sense of obligation toward the ignorant and idle, the hopeless and the vicious. Consider- ing the interests involved, no duty is more impera- tive than that of citizenship. We have said that the essential principle of democracy is the duty of every man to contribute to the common weal, and the spread of democracy is therefore an evidence of the recognition of Christian truth, but the further progress in any democratic country waits upon the recognition of obligation by th.ose who have the tnost to contribute. Upon them rests the greater responsibility, because of greater ability. We must not overlook one feature of Christ's doctrine of obligation. It was obligation toward all the world. He seemed ever conscious of the multitudes beyond, the men of every nation who needed truth and righteousness. This thought of all mankind, this devotion to a.ll mankind was so characteristic of Christ that it becomes at once a test of the dominance of his spirit in any land or in any age ; and it is by this test that our own century is entitled to be called Christian, for it is marked as has been no other century since the development of humanitarian interests and sym- pathy' and has made the whole world a necessary field of philanthropic effort. 'J'he application of Christ's doctrine of ministry to national life, as seen in the awakening of a national conscience, the enlistment of national forces for the righting of wrongs in other lands, the extension of civilization to other peoples, is one of the distinguishing features of these closing years of the century. Hereafter the strong will bend to hear the in:firmi- tieli of the weak, and the selfish .appeal of national pe dr Tl ist st1 au ca in We Cl thl bll yo of th do wl a in, fri at: po fo: gi: yc tit tr· eu lei of UJ se pc yc fe th ct ct Y< of y< nt w iu w S(; H

. ' f e a 'rHE CONCORDtENStS. peace and prosperity will not be permitted to drown the cry of the persecuted and. helpless. That this may be the meaning of American patriot- ism we fervently hope, so that our intelligence and strength may be used for others, our institutions and privileges be given to humanity, and Ameri- can citizenship mean the obligations of brotherhood in the great family of God upon earth. ''Young men of the graduating ·class : \I have sought to bring before you in various ways the out-workings of a principle that is your Christian inheritance and should be your guide in the future whi,ch now invites you. You have been blessed with specialprivUeges, as for four years you have received the instruction and inspiration of the old college whose name you will bear before the world. You have sat at the feet of men of wis- dom, who have not spared to give you of their best, who have rejoiced to give you of themsdves. To a degree not realized in every institution of learn- ing you· have felt the influence of their personal friendship and devotion, and have Hved in an atmosphere of culture and Christian ideals. \With knowledge denied to many, with trained powers enjoyed by few, you now go forth. from their fostering care. To what end will you devote your gifts ? That is the question I have tried to help you to answer. The age to which you belong is dis- tinguished from all others by its recognition of the truth of stewardship. In whatever way youturn your energies keep that truth ever in view. Your pri vi- leges lay upon you an obligation. It is expected of you that you will be leaders. Lead forward and upward by illustrating in your lives the law of service. If, in the providence of God, you become possessors of wealth, make it evident to all that you hold your riches as a trust. If large pro- fessional ability and opportunity become yours use them for broad and unselfish ends. As men of character, give to others the courage and hope and christian faith that have been given to you. Make your citizenship a stewardship for a furtherance of all the ends of righteousness in government, and your patriotism a zeal for the progress of righteous- ness and truth in all the world. So .shall you live worthy of Him who has called you from darkness into light and has made you His servants in the world. That you may never fail of inspiration to serve, I counsel you to hold close fellowship with Him, whose spirit quickens all that is worthiest and best and whose loving favor is the crown of life.'' The Theta chapter of Psi U gave a delightful reception at their chapter house Monday after- noon after the Grove exercises. Although ·Commencement began with Dr . Raymond's Baccalaureate sermon, the real progra~m of the week was opened by the Ivy exerd ses held in the college grove. The beau- tifu1 \Weather presented a striking ·contrast to last year's thunderstonn and the garden appeard at its best. The beauty of the scene was greatly enhatil. ced by the num her of pretty faces and gowns . The first nutnber ~on the program was the ivy oration by George M. Wiley. Mr. Wiley,. with weH ct11osen remarks, spoke of the purpose and s!igni!fiication of the exercises and gave some good advice to each of the under classes. Next George C. Rowell read the ivy poe1n written by Char~es C. Ballard who was compelled to be absellJ:t because of his acceptance of a fellowship in Western Maryland University. Following this can1e the smoking of the pipe of peace while the orchestra discoursed sweet music. Harr:ison K. Wright delivered the pipe oration in which he spoke of the various uses the pipe has been put to and of the consolation and cheer it gives to its users. At the conclusion of his remarks the senior class proceeded in a body to Memorial Hall where the ivy was planted with due solemnity and ceremony. A large number of people were the exercises wer~e thoroughly every \body. TtJe prize Oratory. present and enjoyed by The oratorical contests were held as usual on Monday evening. The sophomore speakers were P. L. Merriman, A. S. Golden, John McNab, and R. A. Eowden. The junior orators were W. D. Brown, J. D. Edwards, C. J. Potter and E. L. Winterberg. The extemporaneous debaters were I. W. Ketchum, '99; E. C. Rogers, 1900; H. K. Wright, '99; and vV. D. Loucks, 1900. In the first two cGntests the speakers chose their own subjects. The general subject in the extemporaneous speak .. ing was, ''The Electoral Franchise,'' and the specral subject announced last evening was, ''Are the Recent Educa tion.al Qualifications in Southern Constitutions justified by the circumstances ? '' The names of winners of these three contests are printed in another coltunn among the awards. I \. ' il

THE CONCORDtENSIS,. '41, L. D. Luce. '44, W. H. H. Moore. '48, C. A. Waldron, Alex. J. Thomson, Harvey T. ~ing. '49, George W. Curtiss, S. Wells, Albon Man, F. W. Seward, Daniel Butterfield, Abel Merchant, H. T. F. Brown. '52, S. B. BrowneH. '54, P. R. Furbeck, A. A. Yates. '56, N. S. Cheeseman. '57, G. M. Wiley. '59, J. H. Robinson, C. H. Peck, David Herron. '60, Alexander Rankin, C. E. Patterson. '64, S. G. Wakeman. '65, W. H. Albro, J. K. Paige. '67, M. G. Plank, W. M. Murray, A. R. Olney. '69, E. C. Lawrenee. '71, C. 0. Yates, G. W. Featherstonhaugh. '72, Wm. J. Kline, T. C. Bunyan. '73, Wm. T. Clute,, Wm. F. Rost. '74, G. A. Hoadley, James F. Baker. '7 5, Harwood Dudley. '76, Harvey B. Seymour, 0. H. Landreth, E. E. Kreigsman, James R. Truax. '77, G. W. Albright, C. E. Akin, J. C. Russum. '79, James Heatley, David Sprague, E. P. White, Edward Hoyt, A. C. Dingleman, F. Van Dusen, G. E. Marks, J. A. Goodrich, David James. '80, R. C. Alexander, C. P. S. Crane, J. T. Rogers, David Muhlfelder, R. J. Landon. '81, H. G. Glen, E. W. White, F. W. Cameron. '82, A. S. Wright, W. Gifford, S. M. Griswold. '83, F. W. McClellen. '84, W. N. P. Dailey, Egdar S. Barney, H. A. Young, J. F. McEncroe. '85, R. J. Wands, H. D. Griswold, Frank Bailey. '86, E. C. Angle, L. C. Felthousen, A. H. Jack- son, G. L. Darwin. '87, E. W. Hawkes, A. H. Pepper, E. C. Cameron, G. T. DeForest, J. C. Van Voast, A. L. Bennett, E. W. Miller. '88, P. H. Cole, F. D. Richards, A. J. Dilling- ham. '89, R. H. Washburne, D. M. Nolan, John L. Whalen, Chas. W. Culver, R. H. Gillespie, James H. Hanson, P. S. Dorlon. '90, J. M. Furman, John C. Knox, G. C. Stewart. '91, Jas. W. Ferguson. '92, E. S. Coons, J. V. Wemple. '93, A. J. Roy, Frank Cooper, J. R. Morey. '94, Nathan Beckwith, J. W. Veeder. '95, Francis E. Ho1leran, Edgar Brown, L. C. ~Guernsey, Walter McEwan, J. N. Veeder, James M. Cass,. W. F. Sawyer, W. R. Borst, G. 8. Streeter, F. M. Eames, H. M. Pollock. '96, G. C. Pollock, C. H. Vosburgh, .J. B. Anderson, ~G-eorge J. Dann, A. L. Peckham, D. M. Westfall, jr., W. L. Terry,. H. M. West, Roscoe Guernsey, B. H. Boorn. '97, Ray Morris, P. J. S.trohauer, S. E. Slocum., C. S. Daley, H. C. Todd, Frank Little, A. H. Birch, J. A. 0 'Neill. '98, George C. Perry, Abel Merchant, jr., C. H. Mattison, J. G. Putnam, M. L. Haviland, Ralph Bradford. The Sig~m~a society met in North college on Tuesday morning. Little business was trans- acted except the selection of Prof. Perkins as a member of the council and of Prof. T. W. Wright as a delegate to the convention at Colutn- bus in August. All of last year's officers were re-elected except Prof. Prosser whose place as corresponding secretary was filled by the electiou of Dr. Stoller. No new members were elected from the graduating class. p~i Beta l{appa (T\eetiQ9· The annual meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa society was. held Tuesday morning in the Wash- burn building. Dr. J. Rufus Tryon was elected an honorary member of the society, and all of last year's officers were re-elected for the ensuing year. They are as follows: President, Benjamin H. Ripton; vice president, Dr. W. L. Pearson; secretary, Frederick R. Jones ; corresponding secretary, John I. Bennett; treasurer, Robert J. Landon. The Phi Beta Kappa key men in the graduating class are: Charles C. Ballard, Schenectady ; Snyder Gage, Johnstown; Irving W. Ketchum, Schenectady; Edward W. Strong, Schenectady; and Harrison K. Wright, Pulaski. It is said that next fall there will be several changes in the curriculum in so far as the electives are concerned. cl 11} tl d I1 o: VI a: tt v f4 a fi fi y a b ( I 0 ' ., ] ] 1

a of . lll . lll d, . . 'F:Ell£ O'O:l{dORblENStS. 9 ~======~==============r=====~==~============- '' ' The general alumni meeting was held in the cha-pel Tuesday m0rning, The ·chief interest of . ~he m.eeting was involved in the discussion of . the proposition to change the qualifications and the med1od of election of the board of trustees. It was decided that an application to the board of regents to a·m:end the charter would neces- sarily he the first thing in order. It is thought that an electio·n .of trustees by 1nail would be very desirable. The scheme is that the alumni are first to nominate by ~mail and then elect the trustees from a list of all candidates receiving a vote of ten ballots.. 'fhere is to be no territorial restriction. The life· memberships of the board at·e to be· abe>lisheel and the term of offi·ce is to be five years. The· trustees are to he arranged in fi:ve classes so that one may be elected each year. A coma1ittee V\'as appointed to wait upon the truste·es in session to learn what action they had taken upon the proposition. The committee ascertained that the· trustees desired more time to censider the matter. The e·lection of an alumni trustee to succeed Congress.man Foote followed. General Daniel Butterfield,' 49, w<ts notninated and was unanim- ously elected. The assoeiation elected the following officers for the next year: President, Frank Bailey, '85, Broeklyn; vice-president, Neil Gilmour, '6o, Ba4ll1ston; secretary, Dr. Willhun T. Clute, '73, Schenectady; treasurer, Allan H. Jackson, '86, Schenecta·dy ; executive commi6ee., Harvey J. King, '48, Troy ; James Heatley, '79, Green Island ; Frank Cooper, '93, Schenectady ; W. N. P. Dailey, '84, Athens ; Douglass Campbell, '94, New York; bulletin cotnmittee, Edw~lrd C. Hoyt, '79'; A. L. Bennett, '87, and A. Mac- Fa·r:lane, '84; memb~r of the advisory athletic board, Robert J~ Landon, 'So. c·ards have been received announcing the marriage at Nashville, Tenn.~ of Mr. Howard M'urfree Jones, '95, to Miss Marion Tucker, daughter of Mrs. Thomas A. Tucker. A goodly number of graduates attended the alumni dinner giv,en in Nott Memorial Hall on Tuesday afternoon. After the menu prepared by Cate:rer ~owens had been discussed, President Bailey, who acted as toastmaste~r, arose and 1nade an eloquent address, after which President Ray- mond wa:s called upon and spoke in the same happy vein as did Mr, Bailey. The coUege, he said, is now facing the future with confidence. It is now standing upon a :firm. financia.l basis, and has the advantage .of knowing just where it stands. Y. M. C. A. BUILDING DONATED. As an.. ~evidence of a brighter future, he announced the good news that a distinguished graduate of the college would make to the ·college the generous gift of a. Y. M. C. A. huiiding intended to become a rallying place of undergraduate life. The plans for the building have already been accepted. It will be erected betw·een south college and Prof. Hoffman's residence. NINETY-NINE'S GENEROUS OFFER. Jam.es N. Vander Veer, '99, announced the plan of the g-raduating class to thoroughly modernize and remodel south college. The sum of $11,000 is to be ra.ised for the purpose by subscription. As a start, the .class of '99 has generously subscribed the sum. of $250. The trustees have not only given their consent, but are anxious to further the pro- ject. A. committee of fifteen members will be chosen from the graduating class. Ten members of the co1nmittee, one of whom will be chosen from each of the fraternities of the college, will write to their a.lumni for subscriptions, large or small. The five remaining members, who are to be non- fraternity men, will communicate with the other alumni in the interest of the enterprise. From the general cmnmittee of :fifteen, :five members will be chosen to compose the executive committee, which will ha.ve the management of the project under the supervision of the local trustees. This worthy project should be aided by all. The other speakers at the dinner were: Frederick W. Seward, '49; General Daniel Butterfield, '49; Rev. Clarence ll'Uell, '49; George Martin Wiley, '59; Professor Perkins, Rev. Dr. Egbert C. La.w- rence, '69; Captain A. P. White, '79; Professor G. W. Fairgreen, '89 and Michael D. Lowell, '89. The Kappa Alpl1a society entertained at the lodge on Saturday afternoon, June 24. ·;, 'I ·,, ., ... ·,, ~· i ,I '· i t

< . l '' .~ ,'_, : .;' ·,' to TH:ffi CONOORD!ENS!S. ··==========~~====~=====r~==========~========~~ fl}e ~lass Day Exereises. ! C5l]:e GraduatiQ~ Exer·e:iges O:Q teotr)nleQ\e- . meq,t Day. The class day ex:ercises of the graduating class were held in the First Presbyterian church, : Tuesday afternoon; June 27. The exercises were begun by President Bradford, who spoke of the many happy hours the me1nbers of the class had ·spent in Schenectady and said that . college life would have been one continuous : grind had it not b:een for the hospitality of the · people of\ Old Dorp.\ The :class poetn, which was written by · Charles Clear Ballat·d of Schenectady, was read : by Harrison K. Wright of Pulaski. The historian, George C. Rowell of Ogdens- . burg, read the history of the ·class and gave a · brief account of its m·ost ''celebrated\ members. The last on the program was the prophecy by Daniel J. I-Ioyt of Amsterdam. He gave a short prophecy for each member of the class. The officers of the class are as follows : Presi- dent, LeRoy T. Bradford ; vice-president, George A. Doran ; secretary, Harrison 1(. Wright ; treasurer, Ferdinand Schmitter ; toast master, James N. VanderVeer; historian, George C. Rowell; ivy orator, George M. Wiley; ivy poet, Charles C. Ballard; pipe orator, Han·ison K. Wright; class orator, Irving W. Ketchum; grand marshal, W. F. H. Breeze. The oldest alumnus to register was L. D. Luce, '41 , of Fayetteville. Mr. Luce has been familiar £gure at many commenne1nents. He graduated at 19 and was the youngest of a class of So. Professor Sidney G. Ashmore will sail for Europe on Saturday, July 8th, frotn New York on the Cunard steamer, Etruria. He will go first to Oxford, England, for the purpose of in- specting manuscripts at the Bodleian library. He will also pursue his manuscript research in the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. Dr. Ash- more goes abroad partly on account of l1is health as well as for research. He will be gone about two months. In contrast to the two previous days of cotn- m,encem.ent week which. bad been cool a.n:d clear, Wednesday was damp and disagreeable, yet the · ·enthusiasn1 displayed by the large ,crowd at the First Presbyterian church was certainly as great as that displayed at Class Day Exercises or at the College grove. The first speaker, Charles C~ear Ballard of Schenectady, whose oration was entitled ''Mira- beau,\ was excused, so the oration of Snyder Gage of JohE.stown, entitled ''The Relation of Locke's Philosophy to th.e French Revolution,\ was the first one listened to. Mr. Gage said that every nation has some great crisis, as we tnay see in the history of England in the I 7th century or of America in the r8th century, and France was no exception to the rul~e. There were ~many causes for the Revolution, but the one exerting the most influence was the decay of religious beliefs. There were many great men and of course they influenced the nation but as they obtained the beginning of their learning fron1 John Lecke, they promulgated his theories. His '' theory of knowledge,\ that all knowledge is gained through experience, and his \doctrine of the State,\ that no man is a me.tnber of any state or subject to any govern- ment except voluntarily, exerted a great influ- ence on these scholars and so on the country. Since everything was bri Hi ant outwardly, w bile rotten inwardly, it was not wonderful tl1at the people were eager for the advancement of Locke's theories. The next speaker; Harold J. Hinn1an of Albany, had for his subject, \Political Econo- tny and the Future.\ After giving .a short review of political economy to the past he said that the important factor in the acquit·ing of wealth \vas the intellectual e1etnent. Knowl- edge and mental force are called for in every phase of life today so the task of political econo- my is to aid all agencies which tend to keep tnoral and n1ental development and the widening of man's sphere. It seems hard to realize that the Peace Conference is in session since now the t .al ' ' 0 g e v c ).._ c b . li . 1: r t ' l ( l

at of of \ ' he . ed a of of of he THE CONCORDIENSIS. ll Utopia of y~sterday bids fair to become the actuality of tomorrow. Irving W. Ketchum of Schenectady, :spoke on '' 'T:be Possibility for the Future Development 0 £ Great Petsonahties.\ Some sav that the ., and the spirit in which it was ,carried. Several states have already taken action against the negt<o but it seems as if it must be contrary to the constitution. In som,e of the northern states the requirements for a vofet· are difficult e:ven great characters of the world are not being equalled and that with the passing away of war wi 11 also be the passing away of great characters. Since such questions as slavery and the penal cod:e bave been settled changes will no longer be by revolutions but by peaceful means. This is :a pessitnistic vjew of things and there is noth- ing in it to inspire a tnan higher since he has reached his ideal. ,: thot1gh the educational standard of the peop'le is . high, so what should they be in the south. Since the negroes live from hand to mouth :they are not tax payers so this seems another reason why distinction should be made between them and those who do pay taxes. It is just that the whites should rule but not just that \poor whHes\ should have a vote and the negro n()t. Clayton A. Snyder spoke on '' Some Signs of the Thnes,'' and in brief said that knowledge and literature have never before reached the level they have now attained. The great ques- tion of sociology is centralization of industry, an.d it is a pro blern not to be solved once for all but we can approach it little by little. The S}}irit of humanity is also an :excellent sign and tll.e frequence with which we see it displayed seems to portend well for the future. The \ Parliatnent of Men and Federation of the WoTld\ of w hicb Whittier speaks see1ns not far off, so let our motto be '' Ev·er onward, ever upward.'' ' Since thege questions effect every community ' '99 tnust soon deal vvith the:tn and it was eager for the test. '~ Ethics and Human Progress\ was the topic dealt with by Harrison K. Wright of Pulaski. PTogress of every nation and age has some dis- tinctive feature. In almost :every case in the past we find that the general tendency is for- ward. All phenotnena are now explained by evolution, and if the original teachers of this theory could hear the lengths to which some go now in making use of this as an explanation they would be surprised. The man who is true to reason and acts in accordance with it is sure to climb upward. So this is indicative of the cause why we should be hopeful. The Valedictory was delivered by Edward W. Strong of Schenectady, whose subject was ''The Disfranchisen1ent of the Negro.\ He said there are two events of recent date of inter- est to this matter, the decision of the Mississippi ,court proposing to deprive the negro of his f:ranchise and the election of November, r898, ' . In saying farewell to Pres·ident Raymond he wished that success would attend him in the future as it had in the past. To the trustees he said that their care and foresight were appreciated and that as their past · was great so might theil· future be. He said that the lofty ideals given the class by the faculty had lifted them up, and in a great measure whatever success they may meet with later is due to the faculty's efforts. The sorrow of '99 is softened by the pleasant memories of the past and the fellowships formed. After long preparation they are now ~ready to be tested and are eager for the trial. They must stand by their motto, \Labor conquers all'' and be strong and brave. The engineering theses were, as usual, not read. The subjects and the writers were as follows: ''The Photometry of Incandescent Lamps,'' Edmund LeC. Hegeman, Plainfield, N. J. ; ,, 'The Water Power Available from the College Brook, '' Morton Moore Price, Schenectady ; '' ''Character- isHc Curves of a 14 kw. Westinghouse Genera.tor,\ Frederick H. Weston, jr., Schenecta(J.y. The honorary chancellor's address was deliv- ered by Dr. Hamilton Wright Mabie. His· effort was a fine one and during the titne he spoke he held the closest attention of the large audience. A brief synopsis of the address follows; ,, t 'it

. i '·,. '; . l f. 1.,2: =====================================T==================================== It is now generally believed that man originally issued out of nature. Then we are no longer pupils of nature, but her ehildren. ment to the graduating class, after which he con- ') fer red the following degrees: Bachelors of Arts. -Charles C. Ballard, LeRoy T. Bradford, William Barton Davis, Snyder 'Gage, OHn C. Hotchkiss, Daniel Jatnes Hoyt, Ir-ving Washington Ketchum, Morga'll Sheridan Post, John Everett Sawyer, Ferdinand .Schmitter, if man di,d not actually issue out of nature it is : certain that nature mingled with his earliest life, assisting and sustaining it, until now tnan stands ) on an equality with nature, dividing his tasks with her. : Edward Winslow Strong, James Newell Vander- , Veer, George Martin Wiley, Jr., Harrison K. Nature gives 11othing to man but beauty, forcing him to earn everything else, and so binding together morality and education.. But this educational process is not confined in its uses to the race, for it ha:~ the ~pediic training for every individual. . That mysterious personal force which we call geni u.s is something deeper and greater than inteHect. It is a kind of energy which issues out of the very recesses of man's nature. The creative mind, like the tree, takes in only that which it can assitnilate, only that which is related to its own structure or quality. Men of the first rank are always intensely individual. They are never composite; they are always perfect types. Vague generalizations have no pow,er to inspire the artist. Art always depends on definite, clearly realized, strongly marked types, and the more perfect the type the wiqer and more complete the revelation of the universal truth which is made through it. This law not only governs art, but as well the development of charac- ter and mind. R'epose is the essential condition of deep and genuine gt·owth. But repose is not sluggishness and inactivity. It is rather quietness and calm- ness behind activity. We, as Americans, need to learn from nature more than any other lesson, that of calmness and quietness of soul. We cannot be fed ·either by nature or by experience until we are open to receive. A restless nature is not sensitive to impressions. Perhaps the greatest refreshment which men now gain from nature flows from our unconscious .. ness. Literature, art, and religion are full of the eviden.ces of self consciousness, the disease which h. as smitten our age. ''Fundamental education does not mean the training of the organs of expression, but the enrichment, the enlargetnent and the deepening of that personality which is our only original posses- sion, the only creative power with which we are endowed, and no education, however perfect in method and skillful device, is other than super- ficial which does not reach, liberate and inspire this hidden nature, which is the man hitnself.\ DEGREES CONFERRED. At the conclusion of Dr. Mabie's address, Presi- dent Raymond spoke a finaf word of encourage- Wright. Bachelors of Philosophy.-William F. H. Breeze, F. Roy ·Champ~on, Robert Milo Eames, Robert Calvin Gambee, Frederick Lincoln ·Greene, Still,. manS. Ham, Harold J. Hinman, Joseph Mark, Dix Webster Noel, George C. Rowell, Clayton A. Snyder, Frank T. Wright. Bachelors of Science.-Floyd Johnsto11 Bonesteel, Lloyd D. Bray, Albert Osb0rne Casey, Fr-an·k H. Fisk, Jr., Wilford Thompson. Purchase, John L. Sherwood, William Joseph Smith. Bachelors of Engineering.-Havilah Beardsley, George Andrew Doran, George Clarke Foote, J. Irving Gayetty, Edmund LeC. Hegeman, Anthony James Hornsby, Burton E. Huggins, Robert Mar- shall Huntley, Stephen Clarke Medbery, Morton Moore Price, Frederick H. Weston, Jt·. The following honorary degrees were a1so con ... ferred by Dr. Raymond : B. B.-George A. Holcotnbe, '98. A. B.-Robert A. Dorr of New York. D. D.-Senior Chaplain of the U.S. A., the Rev. George Robinson, '61, and the Rev. Force Whit- taker of Albany. L. H. D.-Ira N. Hollis of Harvard university. L.L. D.-Sidney A. Norton, '55, of Ohio State University, and Hamilton W. Mabie. PRIZES AWARDED. The following prizes were then announced and awarded by Dr. Raymond and the special com ... mittees: Warner prize to the senior of highest $tanding in the performance of collegiate duties, and in moral deportment, awarded by the faculty.-Edward W. Strong of Schenectady. Ingham prize to the senior .of at least two ~ears' attendance who presents the best essay on an: assigned subject in English literature or history .. Committee, the Rev. J. Walter Sylvester and Mr. Michael Monahan of Albany, and Mr. Greene of :Honesdale, Pa.-H. K. Wright of Pulaski. Allen prizes (three) for the best essay's on an~ subject, from seniors. COlnmittee, the Rev. W:altotl D. Battershall, D. D., of Albany, J atnes C. Rigg$, of Plattsburgh, Charles C. Lester, '70, of Sara- toga, and the Rev. A. C. Sewall, D. D., of Scbe- ilectady.-Irving W. Ketchum of Schenectady, iii of 1i1 p '7 i: G 8{ 'T 'SC 8( h J a .~ v 0 g b I I 0 I f I ] ]

,. . ... :first; l!. K. Wright of Pulaski, second; and W. B. Davis of Schenectady, third. Clark prizes for the best two essays by memtlers of the junior class, on assigned subjects in English literature. Committee, the Rev. Dennis Wortman, p.D., of Saugerties, and Fred Va11Dusen, Ph. IJ ... '79,. of Ogdensburg.-;Melvin T. Bender of Atbany, irst; Leslie N. Broughton of Delhi, second. Junior Oratorical prizes,, Clayton .J. Potter of Glenville, first; E.mil L. Winterberg of Tioga, Pa., second. Sophomore ·oratorical prizes,. John McNab of 'Troy, first.; Robert A. Bowden of Schenectady, 'Second. Allison-Foote prizes (two) -One for the Literary society, one for the best individual debater regard- less of society relaHons. Comtnittee, Hon. Amasa J. Parker of Albany, and Hon. Judson S. LaNdon and Mr. W. R. Emmett of Schenectady.-The Adelphic society won the society prize and Irving W. Ketchum of Schenectady the individual prize. Prize offered by the National Society of the 'Sons of the American Revolution for the best essay on a given subject. Committee, Prof. Benjamin H. Rip- ton, Ph. D., '80, Prof. Edward E. Hale, Jr., Ph. D., and F. Robertson Jones, Ph. D.-Lester T. :Hubbard of Cohoes. Blatchford Oratorical Medals for the best two orations by Seniors; awarded by a committee ap- pointed by the trustees.-H. J. Hinman of AlbaB::y:, first; and E. W. Strong of Schenectady, second. John K. Porter law scholarships-F. Roy Cham- pion and Wm. B. Davis of Schenectady and Dix: W. Noel of Chicago. Gilbert M. Spier memorial scholarship-H. J. Hinman of Albany. SPECIAL HONORS. The following special honors were announced: In Greek, Edward W. Strong; in Latin, William B. Davis, John E. Sawyer, Edward W. Strong; in English, Harrison K. Wright; in history, Olin C. Hotchkiss; in philosophy, William B. Davis, Irving W. Ketchum; in chemistry, Ferdinand Schmitter. Dr. Raymond announced that a new annual prize had been offered by the late Miss Josephine Daggett of this city to a member of the senior class on the basis of conduct and moral character. He further said that during the past year the college has been meeting its expenses without borrowing money, and the trustees have every reason to expect that frmn this time on the financial condition of the institution will improve. The president repeated his announcement made at the alumni dinner of the gift by an alumnus of a new Y, M. C. A. building on the can1pus, and 13 he further mentioned as among those who have aided the college during the past year the late Hon. Rosewell P. Flower, and Cornelius N. Bliss. The exercises .closed in the usual manner, the assemblage rising and singing the ''Song to Old Union,\' John Keyes Paige, '65, presiding at the organ; .after which the benediction was pronounced by the Rev. Force Whittaker of Albany. The annual June concert was held Tuesday evening at the Van ·Curler before a large and appreciative audience. From the first ito the last nun1ber there were vigorous ·encores. The glee club with its college songs no douht touched the heart of every one present, and especially of the alumni. \fhe various clubs did credit to their selections, and in John Kendrick Bangs' farce, \ Proposing Under Difficulties,\ which occupied the second part of the program, the evening's entertainment had a hun1ovous and fitting close· This part of the ·entertainment was sotnething of an innovatio·n, and as suc~h it proved a great success. The four tnembers of the cast did full justice to thejr parts and kept the audience in the best of humor throughout. The cast of characters was as follows : Mr. Bob Yardsley, . J Suitor13 for the hand~ Mr. Van Vlaok Mr. Jack Barlow, • l of Miss Andrews. l Mr. Crain Miss Dorothy Andrews, a much loved young woman, . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . M~r. W. S. Yates Jenne, a maid, . . . . . . . • • • . . . • Mr. Bothwell Hicks, a coachman who does not ap:pea;r, The musica 1 association has closed a most successful season. Excellent managetnent and good leadership have brought the clubs of '98- '99 up to a h1gh state of perfection, and it is to be hoped that next year's clubs will do as well. The success of the n1instrel perfonnance and of Tuesday night's farce suggests a combination of the two interests, tnusical and dratnatic, under one head for ne?'t year. By such a union of the two, expenses could be cut down and club.s sent out which would be a departure from this year'.s organization and which would as well he a credit to the college.

14 THE OO·NCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIE.NSIS. PUBLISKI:D !tVItltY W'RB:JC DURING TH1t COLLRGJt TEAK. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITQR,S. \PHILIP L. THOMSON. 1900:, - - Editor-in-Chief 6-EORG-ll: E. RJ..ITT, 1900, - - Business Manager LESTER T. HtrBB.ARD, 1900. - . News Editor R. H. ROBINSON, 1901, - Asst. Bu~. Manager ASSOCIATE EDITORS. A. s. GoLDE~. 1901, J. MeN AB, 1901, P. L. ME'RRIM.i.N. 1901, C. P. WAGONER, 1901 REPORTORIAL STAFF. R. R. 0RIM, 1902, D. C. HAWKES. 1902, D. E GRIFFITH, 1902, F. H. :MoRSS, 1902. W. E. HAYS, 1902, H. M. PARSONS, 1902. TERMS: Co:NCORDI.ENSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Ad vance Single Copie~, - - - - - 10 Cents P .i.R.THENON. $1\:00 per Year, in Ad vance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in A<lvance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Po11t-office at Scl\enectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chalt. Burrows, P:rinter, ,p4 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. THE baseball season, which started out so auspiciously, ca1ne to rather an unsatisfactory ,termination. Unsatisfactory from the standpoint of the league as a whole and unsatisfactory from a Union standpoint. Nothing tends more to weaken a league than to have some of its members with- drawing at a critical time. We question whether Colgate and Hobart should have cancelled their games when they did, unless of course there were other circumstances involved aside fron1 the fact that their chances for the pennant were poor. Col- gate's action at almost the season's end left Union and Hamilton tied for first place. The efforts to arrange a game between the two were unsuccessful and, accordingly, the question .as to where the pennant goes, if there is any, must be left until next fall for decision by the advisory board of the league which meets at Utica on October 7. Now THAT cmnmencement week is over, a little reflection suggest lines of action which may be followed out to bring about some needed improve- ments. Not least important among these is the matter of the attendance of alumni upon commence- ment. This year saw the numbe:r of alurnni back the largest sh\lce the centennial in 1895, but even ' so, there ought to be at next year's ,com,mencement three or even four times as many of the alumni to return. To bring about this result there have been suggested many ways. And, as everyone knows who was at the meeting of the alritnni association,. some of the proposed plans are direeHy opposed to each other. Without taking sides with either of the two views there expressed, it would seem that the plan here outlined ought to bring about good results. During the summer, and :throughout the coming college year let every student and alumnus make it a point to get together as many i terns as possible concerning Union alumni, paying parti- cular attention to the decennial classes from '40 down to '90. These notes may be handed to the editors of The Concordiensis who are desirous of collecting information about members of those classes to hold reunions next June. The news of each of these classes can be gathered in a separate issue, copies of this number sent to the individual members of the class, and so a spirit of interest worked up which ought to be the means of getting together a much larger number of alumni next June. THE Developments of the past week with regard to the future of the college must certainly be grati- fying to every student, alumnus and friend of Old Union; and the sound of those ringing speeches at the alumni dinner must still be heard in the ears of all who feared for the future welfare of this grand old institution. The board of trustees tell us that the college was never on a :fi.rmer financial basis than she is today. They tell us that the work of the coming year will proceed on the same basis as has that of the one just passed, and that there is every reason to believe that the college's financial condition will grow stronger each year. The trustees point with pride to the loyal offer of the graduating class to be the means of raising a fund to thoroughly renovate Sout11 college-. an offer seldom if ever equalled by a graduating class be- fore-and with '99 at the helm, the proje<;t ought certainly to reach accomplishment. Then, too, p fli c< rr G t] a g a ' c t r r ] 1 1 1 1 1

to to of at as ti- of of at me 's ar. a be- THE O~ONOORDIENSIS; 15 President Rayn1ond announces the founding of a new prize for commencement, and, best of all, comes the w·elcome news that the campus is soqn to be graced by a new Y. M. C. A. building, the gift of a prominent alumnus... The choice of the alumni for a trustee has faUert on a m.an than whom no more .loyal son of U uion coHege ever 1i ved, and Glen, '81; J. R. Truax, '76; T. W. Wright, R. W. GiHespie, '83. W. L. Sawyer, '95; and W. E. Merriman, jr., '98. The Sigma Phis entertained the following alumni: Henry Camp Potter, '39; M. W. Fran- chot, '65; E. W. Paige, '66; Howard Conant, '92; Edward Coons, '92; H. McCowatt, '99; W .. G EeUogg, ex-'99; G. W. Featherstonhaugh, '71; J. W. \Teeder, '94; W. ·G. Gilmour, '88; Robert Gil-- mour, '94; Ed. YelvertoN., Frank Van der Bogart, General Butterfield's ·oft-repeated expression of ' this loyalty places him in the front rank of those i '95; Abel Smith, ,ex- '98; B. Cleveland Sloan, '83; R. Hamilton Gibbs, P. B. Yates, '98 . sons of the college who have given her financial aid. Taken all in all, there is 1nuch cause for gratification, for a new area is in prospect for our alma mater. After the concert on Tuesday night reunions were held at the different fraternity houses. Som'e took on the form of elaborate banquets while others were informal. Many of the crowds serenaded their lady friends. 'I'he Delta Phi reunion was held at the Edison and an elaborate spread was served. Among the alumni present were: Edward W. Cameron, '87; Charles P. McMurray,. '87; Alexander J. Thomson, '48; Henry H. Esselstyn, '93; Hiram C. Todd, '97; A. H. Birch, '97; Prof. S. G. Ashmore; Dr. W. L. Pearson, '68; J. D. Watkins, '98; Fred. HHd, '98; J. W. Haggart, '98; H. A. Crothers, '98; E. W. Schermerhorn, ex-'99; the Rev. Dr. William Irwin of Rutgers; Dr. James L. Hunt of Michigan and John C. Armstrong of Johns Hop- kins. The Chi Psis enjoyed a spread and smoker at their lodge at the foot of college hill. Among the alumni present were: The Rev. Clarence Buell, '49; Col. Vlilliam F. Fox,. '69; Harwood Dudley, '72; William T. Clute, '73; William C. Vroon1an, '72; W. S. Hunter, '68; F. Cooper, '93; John S. Morey, '93; Henry D. Tremper, Rutge:rs; Alva L. Peckham, '97; the Rev. G. E. Talmage, Rutgers; Theodore B. Brown, '98; J a1nes C. Cooper, '97; H. Earl Furman, '94; and Newman Walbridge, ex- 1900. Psi Upsilon held an informal reunion at their chapter house. Among those present were: B. H. Ripton, '75; W. T. Foote, jr., ''85; Chas. M. Culver, '89; Chas. W. Trutnbull, '92; F. T. Richards, '88; John M. Furman, '89; A, S. Wright, '82; Horatio A large number of .alumni were entertained at the Alpha Delta Phi house. Among them were: The Rev. Geo. Alexander, '66; Chas. E. Sprague, '60; Lee W. Case, '82:; the Rev. S. M. Griswold, '82; J. C. Van Voast, '87; 'G, L. Streeter, '95; J. L .. Johnson, '95; F. W. McClellan, '83; H. S. Ray- nlond, '93; C. S. Daley, '97; Wm. P. Rudd, '73; ' Wm. J. Kline, '72; l'Ioward Hanson, '89; E. C. Angle, '86; D. H. Craver, '96; Alden L. Bennett, '87; Fred. L. Carroll, '90; Edward T. Carroll, '89; Putnatn Cady, '85; T. L. Walker, '91; James Walker, '92; W. E. Walker, '95; John A. De Reemer, '57; W. J. Stone, ex-'99; H. A. DeGraff, '96; N. I. Schermerhorn, '95; Chas. B. Templeton, '84; Dr. A. V. V. Raymond, '75; Dr. E. E. Hale, jr., Harvard; Prof. John I. Bennett, '90; S. A. Easton, Dartmouth; Fred. l\1:iles, ex-'99; Went- worth Tucker, ex- '99. At the Beta Theta Pi house the active chapter entertained the following alun1ni: A. G. Sumtners, '96; T. A. Chrichton, '98; D. H. Deyoe, '98; A. B. Andrews, '98; J. W. Ferguson, '91; F. W. Closs, '98; ~· F. Van Wormer, ex'99; R. H. Washburne, '89; A. J. Dillingham, '88; W. E. McEwan, '95; Guy Vrooman, '98; F. :E. Crane, '85; and the Rev. Philip H. Cole, '88. The Phi Gamma Deltas, the Phi Delta Thetas and the Kappa Alphas each had informal gather- ings, the two former at their chapter houses and the latter at their rooms in the post office building. The Delta Upsilons held their reunion on Mon- day night. These alutnni were present: J. A . 0 'Neil, '97; P. R. Furbeck, '54; R. A. Avery, '98; G. A. Holcon1be, '98; E. P. White, '79; and J. B. Wands, '65. The trustees have announced the appoint- ment of Instructor Howard Opdyke as assistant professor of tna the rna tics, and of Instructor Frederick Robertson Jones as assistant professor in history and Socioiogy. ,. . . ',(

The last and crowning event of 'Commen:ce- nlent we:ek was the .Senior baH, held in Nott Memorial Hall on Wednesday evening, Jnne 28. This dance, aside fro.rn the Sophl>tnore soiree, is the only large dance of the year, and :the opportunities offered on Wednesday night for having a good titne were fully appreciated by the large number of young people present. In previous years it has been the custom to have, for dancing, a false floor :Covered with crash. But the soiree demonstrated the im:prac- tibility o.f the crash as a permanent fixture and therefore the senior baU com.mittee decided, in order to make their dance a success, to lay a hard wood floor in the building. After much labor the con1mittee succeeded in gaining the consent of the trustees for the laying of a perma- nent floor, and they further succeeded in raising a sum of tnoney sufficient to cover the cost. Memorial hall requires very littte decoration, but the natural beauty of the building was greatly enhanced by the furniture and flags which were used in profusion. t'he orchestra stand was attractively decorated with American flags and bunting and the canopy was raised to the third gallery. The guests began to arrive at about ten o'clock, and soon the merry couples began to glide through the intricate mazes of the waltz to the· strains of \Mv Ladv Love.'' Gioscia's ~ \' orchestra of twelve pieces furnished the tnusic, and outside of the twenty-five regular dances, \]o\ played innumerable \extras ''don't counts,\ \incidentals \accidentals \ any- old-things,\ '' damfinos,\ etc., tin it was after daybreak, when the affair came ,to an end, and a throng of tired but happy young people left for their ho1nes. Refreshments were served during the evening by caterer Owens of Utica. The patronesses were as follows : Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt, Mrs. Daniel Butter- field, Mrs .. A. V. V. Raymond, Mrs. E. W. Rice, jr., Mrs. B. H. Ripton, Mrs. Williatn Wells, Mrs. J. S. I-.~andon, Mrs. H. C. Levis, Mrs. ·T. Atfred Vernon, Mrs. 0. H. Landreth., Mrs. J. W. Smitley, Mrs. S. D. Greene, jr., Mrs. Dan. L. Lamont, Mrs. J. H. Stoller, Mrs .. S. G. Ashmore, Mrs. Richard FuHer, Mrs. Maurice Perkins, Mrs. E. E. Hale, jr., Mrs. J. K. Paige, Mrs. J. R. Truax, Mrs. J. W. Strain, Mrs. J. V. L. Pruyn, Mrs. C. 0. Yates, Mrs. I. B. Price, Mrs. G. W .. Featherstonhaugh, Mrs .. A. R. Beardsley, Mrs. C. F. Lewis, Mrs. B. A. HegemaR, jr., Mrs. J. R. Lovejoy, Mrs. N. L. Casey, Mrs. C. S. Prosser, Mrs. A. L,. Rohrer, Mrs. A. J. Dillingha~rn., Mrs. W. G. Carey, Mrs. W. E. Walker, Mrs. J. A. DeRemer. Among those present from out of town w~e11e : Miss Bothwell, Albany; the Misses Heatley, Troy; Earl, Clinton; Mitchell, Amsterdam; Lewis, SyraM cuse; Andrews, Wi1lia1nstown; Mac. Intosh, WaterM ford; Frear, Kingston; Newell, Kingston; Haile, Gouvenor; Carkener, Kingston; Gilbert, San FranM cisco; Newell, Little, War.ner, Sanford, Rochester;. Lawrence, Quogue; Breneman, Cincinnatti; Conde, Watertown; Beebe, Albany, Crocker, Albany; Mac Cu11oc11, Albany;. Sheldon, Little Falls; Vincent, New York; Davis, Middletown, Conn.; Marshall, Baltimore; Yates, Staten Island; Banker, Jackson. O.thers present from out of town were the Misses Sligh, Verbeck, Martin, White, Casey of Auburn; Judson, Esselstyne and P'earson of Hudson; Greenleaf, Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Bonesteel, Kingston; Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Du Bois, Mrs. C. V. D. Young, Mrs. N. L. Casey of Auburn, and Messrs. Mabie of Ballston; ThotnpM son of New Britain, Co11n.; Walbridge of Buffalo; Bradfol\d of Broadalbin. Those from the city were Dr. and Mrs. A. V. V. Raymond, Prof. and Mrs. Ashmore, Mrs. Jonn Keyes Paige, Mrs. Featherstonhaugh, Mrs. Osborne, Mrs. Truax. and the Misses Yates, Pitkin,. Brown, Vedder, Strain, Alexander, Steers, Cooney, Krei:gsman, Laudon, Miller, 0 'Neil, WatM son, Fuller, Hoppman, Veeder, Button, Beattie, Hubbs, DeForest and i:he Messrs. P. B., W. C. and W. :8. Yates, La\vrence, Featherstonhaugh, Warner, Gilmour, Cullings, Dunham, Hackett, Wiley, Purchase, Fisk, Bonesteele, Rogers, Cooper, Miller, Eames, Vander Veer, Stewart, Haviland, Wright, Merriman, Davis, Andrews, Pike, Palmer, Paige, VanVlack, O'Neil, Bradt, Golden, Foote, Beardsley, Casey, Sawyer, Med- bury, Cliampion, Noel, Furman, Greene, the Messrs. Bradford, Parsons, Berg, Smith, Price, Hornsby, Hegeman, Fuller, Kline, Huntley, BFownell, Loudses, Sinclair, Bray, Sanford, Strong, GUmour, Hubbard, Sherwood, Thomas, p E g (

. . •· ' ,. ' . d u n ' THE CONCORDIENSiS. Parker, Palmer, W. E. B:vown, H. J. :Brown, Hoppman, Dunning, Loucks and Root. The committee which had charge of the affair and to whom is due all oredit for its brilliant success was composed of Messrs. Havilah Beards- les, Wilfred T. Purchase, Albert 0. Casey, George C. Foote and E. LeC. Hegeman . The annual Sigma Phi dance was held in Yates' boat house Monday evening. 'l'he hall was prettily decorated and the dance was alto- gether a delightful one. The music was by Gioscia, the refreshments by Sinsabaugh. The following were the out of town guests : Misses Haile from Gouve:rneur ; Esselstyn and Pearson from Hudson ; Sheldon from Little FaHs; Carkener and Gilbert from Kansas City ; Newell, Little, Warner, Sanford of Rochester; Banker from Jackson ; Lawrence of Q}togue ; Conde of Watertown ; Bancroft of San Fran- cisco; Vincent of New Y<:>rk; Davis of Middle- town, Conn. ; Marshall, Mason of Baltimore; the Messrs. K.ellogg, Watertown; Bunking and Minkle from Williatns college ; Daley, Staple- ton; Little, Rochester; Sawyer, Sandy Hill; Merriman of Albany and Prof. MacKenzie from Boston. stonhaugh, Warner, R. F. Paige, John Jack- son, Stothofr, Ellis, R. G. Gilmore, W. 'Gil- mour, and E. W. Paige. In the A.merican Moni~hly Revi~ew of Reviews for July, the editor reviews the work of our delegation at the Hague up to date, pt·esenting the latest phases of the arbitration question. An1ong other topics discussed in, \'l'he Pro- gress of the World\ this month are '' tariff trusts'' as a political issue, the D'reyfus vindica- tion, the war in the Philippines, the .recent change in the civil se1vice rules, and the newly elected college presidents. John Barrett,. fonner United States minister to Siam,, contributes a sun1mary of his itnpressions after his five years visit to the far East. ,., Rosa Bonheur and her vVork,\ is the subject of an adicle by Ernest l(nauflt, and Mr. George Wharton Ja~m~es relates ''A Pilgrilnage to sotne Scenes of Spanish Occupancy in our Southwest.'' Outing for July is a nutnber fun of appropriate sumtneT reading. It fairly sparkles with good things to please the sportsman and the athlete. Those present from this city were : The These are so1ne of the features: \On a Pennsyl- Misses Alexander, Strain, Schoolcraft, Brown, Price, Lewis, tl1e Misses Yates, Horstmann, Clark, Schuyler, Button, the Misses Beattie, Paige, the Misses Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. G. DeB. Greene, Fuller, Walker, Williarns, Pratt, Hildreth, Darling, Carey, Harwood, Mr. and Mrs.. Erben, Mt·. and Mrs. Smitley, and the Messrs. Lawrence, Greene, W. Yates, Hild, Brown, Sawyer, Strong, Price, Foote, Wright, Sherwood, Medbery, VanderVeer, Stewart, Huntley, Hinman, Brown, Bradford, Hegeman, Beardsley, R. Yates, P. Yates, Paige, Feather- vania Trout Stream,\ by E. W. Landys;\ \ Hunting Alaskan White Sheep with Rifle and Catnera,\ by Dan de Weese ; \Catboating on Jersey Inland Waters,\ by Henry T. Brown; \ The Golf Clubs of 'Chicago,.'\ Alexis J. Cole- tnan; \Remote Norway,\ by Elizabeth Taylor; and a number of short articles among them, '' How to Recognize Deadly Snakes,\ ''A Glorious Fourth A wheel,\ \Canoeing Down the Penobscot,\ and '' Five Weeks Awheel in France.\ An unusually full reviev\.r of amateur sports for the tnonth ~closes the number. '! ·• ' 'I

:'rHE OONdORbiENSts. AU of the decennial classes from '49 to '89,, as weB as '84 to '96 held reunions during the week. In some classes they were held at the Edison hotel or Dohermann's, while others were in- formal gatherings. AU the Time You will feel conscious of being well-dressed if I build your gar- ments. I!Jiel C}lPlPB!f(llKlllllM , LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S TAILOR, 78, 80 AND 80 }4 So. PEARL ST., .A.LE.A.J::-::r~, :t'f. \Y\. ' Golf, :Bicycle, Livery and Full Dress Suits. Extensive Ladies' Tailorin~ Department. GroscrA & GARTLAND's r• ~ • ,. ~ - . •. \'=. '-:0 J. McElwee, 17 NORTH PEARL ST., We show the finest stock of UMBRELLAS, i).RASOLS )ND CAt{_ES To be found in any retail store in the state. Everyone is wel- come to examine our stock, even though a. purchase is not intended. Repairing and Covering a Specialty. :FKEHCH BRI.JIR R~2T PtVEJ. Fine Smokin2' Tobacco. J. Ill. JOIIR80:W, 38 MAIDEN LANE, - - ALBA.:NY, N. Y. New Styles in F:ootwear for Summer ---------AT--------- fiJAUTllE}\ 11. I\ OGH'S, Gent's Russia Calf and Patent Calf Oxfords, also Patent Calf Button and Lace Shoes, Cloth or Kid Tops. All tha Latest Styles a.t Kod.erate :Prices. Sole Agent for ..... W. L. DOUGLAS, JOHNSTON & MURPHY AND E. H. STETSON & Co.'s Fine Shoes for Gent's Trade ORCHESTRA. All goods warranted as represented. STATE STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Telephone 4:82. Union College, '91 to '98 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colga.te University, '94: to '97 Williams' College, '91 to 'g7 Cornell University, '90 to '~6 Governor's Mansion, '94: to '91 Give us a trial. -w. L.. x:oc:a:, 257 STATE ST. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. f = ' j, =

---ADVERTISEMENTS.- GOOD ·• . :COLD .. REYNOLDS'. . D Cor. State and Railroad. A . . }l.LB}lNy- .. TE}leJiERS' }l·6ENeY PROVIDES SCHOOLS OF ALL GRADES WITH COMPETENT TEA·CHERS. .. ASSISTS TEACHERS IN OB'TAINING POSITIONS. 24 STATE STREET. ALBANY, N. Y. H.A.RL.A.N P. FRENCH, Proprietor. The BEST Bicycle . .- SF The bicycle that costs no more in the beginning, and a great deal less in the long run is The Columbia. H. S. BARNEY & CO., 214 LIBERTY STREET. Artistic Parisian \Ql'y and ~team ~IeaninS and ~yein~ Wol'E;s. Alterations and Repairin~ a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-cla.ss work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. dAGOB RINDFLEI88H, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Open untll g P. ll. Work done at short not.ice. SVO~TS_ EVERY'1'1IING YOU NE'ED •. MAY BE F:ouND AT J. M .. WA~REN &. CO'S HARDWARE STORE, 245 R:IVBR ST., TQOY, N. Y.-A;GENTB FOR A. G .. SPALDING & BRO. BICYCL.ES: MOHAWK. SPECIAL. EVE.RYTHING IN ,CYCLB SUNDRIES . 1878 1898 rJR. ~fr\r1S.l9~N~e}. OCULl8T f\ND o·PTIC:I,AN . EYES EXAMINED· FREE .. Any gla.ss ground and compounded ·on shor.t notice. 99 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N. Y. •• EUROP·EAN • I HOTEL A~N[) RE5TAURAHT, Broadway and l~aiden Lane, ALBANY,. N. V. •. • .. 250 ROOMS. •.• Ladies' Restaur.a.n:t Attached ••• WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 50S. BROADWAY. The most tiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiOiij;;;,;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;_-__:) Reliable Footwear. ===· ~=== PATTON & HALL, 245 s~rATE ST. LOUIS HERMAN, Hair Cutting, Hotel V en dome .Shop. I ~ 'j I ! . . I

JOHft KE'ELER'S SONS, Prop·s ..• 59 STATE S'T., ALB.ANY, N. Y. When in want of Sa.ndwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. A.lso Boiled Ham, Fies, Coffee and Milk. The Celeb:t-oated Moma:rch Shoe --IS SOLD BY·-- MAX SCIIMIDT, ~IEI-tCHANT TAILOll 263 STATE STREET. He also makes up a most Stylish and .Artistic suit from $14 up. The finest Dress suits at reasonable prices. 1500 Spring Styles await your insr>ection. 514 FUL.TO'N ST., TROY, 'N. Y • Largest lanufactnrers tn America I • • • ·1 • • of Eng-ineers' and Surveyors' Instrnm'ents. Also dealers: in Drawing Instruinents and Materials. Mason_. -....-....~r---~---~ \The Haberdasher.\ A full line of up-to-date Furnishings, Umbrellas, etc. Suits to order. College trade solicited. 139 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ,JS NORm PEARL sr. ALBANY. IUlt' l'OWC .IJIU',u .. VARtm oF ·p,ua BOX£s&BASms suitable for PRESENTS. CANDIES SENT D!ltY 4 WHER£ BY IWL OR EXPRESS. IW10RD!JtSR££EM MOST CAREFUL AlrTENl'ION. ~~~ COCOA&CHOCOLATES -:W JTDUI SlllllS IIY HIIQ1S mRYIIIUf. G® kD RINGs\ E. c. HARTLEY, \The Union St. Grocer.\ POPULAR FLORIST,S. GOT FLOWERS. 10 NORTH PEA.RL STREET, f\LBRNY, N.Y. Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, ~c~ Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes a.nd Crackers. ~ •f•------L. D. ·Tn:LEPliONll: 104. Telephone 38. 601-601 UNION STREET.

-ADVE'RTISEMENTS.- 21 ·=·----. ·------------ THE NEWEST, NATTIEST A'THLETIC. qoo·DS. VltTOl AND SYJILJ)JNQ. ... AND THE .•. I~N~OOJR-0\ITDOOll • BIGY:CLES A.ND SUPPLIES. MOST POPULAR ·sTY•··L. ,u:.S :.· JJ Victor, Sterling, Union, Eagie, 'Crawford, Olive. Introduce Your.sel ves. • .AT •• '· AL.B·ANY HA:RilWA:RE AND I'RON C;O., JOHNSON'S . ' ...£.:LE..A.N'Y, N.. ~- UN-ION'S TAILOR, , I. ~-~-~~-~E·.,_J • LE'ADING 'rAlLOR • . 35 Maiden Lane, Albany, N. v. · LARcEsr sroci{. Lo~wEsr PRicEs. Intercollegiate ·caps and Guwns • C01'RELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. Illustrated bulletin upon application. . H.AVE YOU SEEN · 'THE J?:t:ANOLA ~ PRICE The most wonderful piano player ever invented. Yon can play the piano with- out taking lessons. $250. Cluett tc Sons, ALBANY TROY MADRAS SHIRTS ..••• FOR •••. Spring and SumtnerWear OHOIOE .ASSORTMENT. SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER. C. MEYER, 18 So. Pearl Street, ALBANY, N. Y. IJJ JAY STREET. S. E. MILLER, JR., MEN's FuRNISHIN~G :Goons, SOLE AGENTS FOR --THE----- REGAL SHOE. 34-36 Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. R, 'T. MOIR, ...... BOOKS, FINE STATIONERY. PICTURE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, ETc. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ••••. 388 State St., ~ehenectad11, N. r. J. A. ORA.:MER. W. KLINGLJIR. ~GRF\MER & ·GO.,~ GENERAL PAINTERS, 163 Whito Street, ScheneCJtacly, M. Y. A. L. OWENS .. CATERER ' •• \'-UTICA N. Y.

22 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- Yates' Boat House,. The la,rgest and best equipped in the State. Excel- · lent Dancing Hall,, wb·ich can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with hou.se. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, .N.Y. COAL Tke Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal, for sale by VEEDER BRO.S., No. II4 S·O.UTH CENTRE ST. /A. }i. ser{}lFFEJFtB, A PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Sup:plies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. FirstMclass work done .at the Studio for p0pular · prices. Special attention given to outMof-door · grouping. C\lT FLOWERS CONSTANTLY ON HAND. rs GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. WALL ST., Next toP. 0. l3Jil\rf)'TE ~ 'kYEfslE)iFEe!(, ·~-- Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL ai]d WeeD Lime, Cement. Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 300, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. SHANNON'S ICE CREAM . l:S r.I:':S:E ::SESr:I.\. REGULAR MEALS AND LUNCHEONS SERVED AT HIS :PLACE. 461 STATE STREET, SCHENECT..&.DY', N. Ys WHEN IN WANT OF----- <lOLf QOObS, FOOT &ALLS, STitiKIN<:i DAQS OR. !OXINQ QLOV~S • • GO TO •• t1·nion St·ea,m :La.undry, .E • .A. GASNEB, Prop., to8 S01:1th Centre St., Schenectady, N. Y. Laundry C'lled for and DaliTared to A·ny Part of City .• ~ A share of your patronage is respectfully solicited. L. T. CL u·TE, Ilatte1r and Fur1•ier. 221 State Street. ~pring ~tyles gentlemef!'s Hats NOW READY. ALSO .A COMPLETE LINE OF TRUNKS, BAGS, SUIT CASES, UMBRELLAS, ETC. DOTY;, THE ·.HATTER, 307 State Street. EMBOSSED BY THE QUIR~, 100 OR 1000. UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 414 STATESTREET. ELECTRICAL WORKS • Buildings Wired for Electric Light and Power. Oaill Bells and Burglar Alarms. We carry a complete line .of Electrical Supplies, Telegraph Instruments, Telephones, Bells and Batteries, Electric Light Supplies, Electric and Combination Fixtures, etc. We make a specialty of Phonographs and Grapha- phones, prices from $10 to $30. Large stock of records always on hand, including all the latest selections. $5 per doz . SCHENECTADY, N.Y. JAY A. RICKARD, 253 STATE ST. 304 State Street. H. ~~HUNEMAN, Furniture RQpairing, 136 LAFAYETTE ST., SCHENECTADY, N .. Y.

, -ADVERTISE-MENTS.- 23 FRIEDMAN BROS .. , cv-·~·~ WHOLES.4LB DE:.A.LBRS IN ' ;: I VI<:.KFOKD • BROS., Union :Market. southern Produce, Butter, Ch'eese, Eggs,: , D 1 _: . • .· · 11 F: _ _ M· . ~: . · ea,;ers In A: ·resh .eats FRES:H FISH, OYSTERS, C::H.,.Atf\8,. 'E'TQ. POT /\TOES A SPECI.ALTY. :, ~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. 102 SOUTH. CENTRE ST. TELEPHONE 45. ; 602 UNION, COR. BARRET'!' STS. :· Prenoh Oherrie11, a.u Maraschino. · J CLEVEVTS &: CO lll(llllfll.,.. ..,.._ ~ ~ ... 0 ..,. ~- 9 s· :' Belfast,,D.ublin and American : ' I ·.. .m 11 . . ' . •:J • Y. Y. VV • ..liiiN.4 ..._\' · _,.._, ..lliiiiiii.l. ., • Gmge_ l' Ale. . :: Unfermented Wine, Olaret Lemona.dea. -232-234- !: Imported an.dDomastio Table Wa.tera. STATE STREET, h.omEL C:~r;>MA.NIA :· HunJILdiBitterWater. L! · ·~.1.~ · ~.L.C,.\ · · ' Bara.toga\Vi•hy Schenectady, N. Y BlLLIA.RDS, POOL AND BOWLING. :~~ ... SCHENECTADY CL.OTJIING CO., .•• THE LEADING ••• -ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty St. : 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. · Edison Hotel Building. A.. 'G. HERRICK. WILSON DAVIS, UN,ION RESTAURANT, . Merchant Tailor. ·: Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. MCHBNJCT.A..:DY, N. Y. ! 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. tfNI®N eOLLEeE 'J. V. Vrooman's Sons, -*i BICYCLES~­ BeOK EXe}I}lNeE. . RAMELER. COLUMBIA. ZENITH. All College Texts, Draughting Instruments and • Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college supplies . ALASKA REFRIGERATORS. H.ARDWARE. STOVES. PLUMBING. 138 .. 140 STATE ST. Smoke the '' L. H.\ Cie;ar.

FULL LINE.· -OF---- SPRING BOSOM AND NEGLIGEE . SHIRTS ----AT__:._ Popular Pri.ces. -- -- . · ADVERTISEMENT$ . .....;..;.• ·- So:LE. AGENT __..__._Ti':o- , R·· . ~ ' .. '' .J:.l' . ··.' .. ·- ,, 'TRE c--- :. y- .:g·-'-:t~~ 1 ·f.;' ::$HOE . . · ... V··. 'J . • • ' . - • • ~ • • • '~ • '. f\l..,L KlN·D8 $3.50 .. --. - . C-- E. -o .. ---N··E· p-~iR-·1'·--,, -- . ·- :_:·:' \ ·.. :'. '·. ·. '·.· ·. ·_: __ ANP THE Jo ,b~ ·n·,s· t'o--·n: ,,un-·:··r-n·J.•v _ · --•·_,· - __ - ·. U_lllfl·_ I'UJ ·$s.oo. KILLIP & MARKS, 1, 3 and 5 No. Pe:arl S~.; UNITED SHiRT & C.OLLAR c·oMPANY, TROY, N. Y. ~-----. ... -~~-:--A-LBANY., .N. Y . . _,.,' . ~~· 1\RADE MARK. . . ~ . ...... ' ' . • '1:· •.... ' .,.... . . , . ' ~ '· : FOR SAtE IN . -~ :~t.: .. ·'; ·,! SCHEN.E1CTADY , .-~., .... ANI>. WOOD BROS. ' .

