ets, els. the and am- elds or cer- r, a and ffi;) and s in the cig- last that the ilely to meg Foot baH • • Fraternity Contest Ballot tS Food Price Investigation Page Four The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV. Number 7 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1941 Price 5c Aroused Dutchmen Set to Face Hobart Deacons ------------ ------------ ---------~--<.> Student Council Rejects Dance Proposal Following R.P.I. Game ' Edward Auten, Sr., '62, Oldest Living Alumnus, Dies at Age of 102 Edwara Auten, Sr., oldest grad- uate of Union College and old- est graduate of Harvard Law School, died Tuesday at his home in PrinceviHe, Illinois. He had celebrated his 102nd birthday on Reconditioned Alexander Field Scene of Opening Home Game ~ Rally Planned for Tonight: Leads Union Tomorrow Elevens Rated Even Committee Appointments Approved Uau:mlmcwsly; Change Campus CC1ed Da!l'e Going on record a~ opposed to an informal fall social function be- . cause of the cost, the Student Coun- cil voted down proposals to conduct i a small informal dance after the I R. P. I.-Union football game. In its \Vednesday evening meeting, the council approved the executive com- mittee appointments and a change in the date uf thl' uperation of the Campus Che:;t. H. Melville Me:;senger, '43, and John Gt ow, '-1·2, were appointed to represent the Student Council at the fall meeting of the Graduate Council on October 25. The council accepted all committee nominations by giving blanket approval. President Killian reported the Executive Committee of the coun- cil as in favor of the R. P. I. dance. He said that bids would cost :!'1.10 and that the dance would tun from nine until one. R. P. I. would be invited as a fl'iendly gesture and as a return for the courte~y they showed last year when they invited the Union student body to their In- terft-aternity Dance through Union's lnterft·ater nity Council. R. P. I. men would be admitted on the ptesentation of their athletic tick- ets. Questioned from the floor, he said that no stags would be al- lowed into the dance. l<~mtil:'t' Attaci{S Plan The p!an was immediately at- tacked by Edward C. Enstice who said that he feared it would de- tract from the Terrace Council's efforts to get students to attend the away Hamilton and Williams football games. He also feared that the dance would compete strongly with Father's Day. A poll of the council showed that actual Father's Day celebrations where only sched- uled for the Chi Psi and Psi Up- silon houses. Fred Wikoff urged the voting down of the idea because he felt that it would detract from the num- ber which would attend the Inter- fraternity Ball. Financed by the Student Council, with the possibil- ity that it might go under, it might prevent the Interfraternity Dance Committee from spending an extra hundred dollars to insure a really good dance. He was answered by several speakers who pointed out that most Union students pt·obably spent a $1.10 wht>n they went to the movies. They also later pointed out to Ens- tice, who had claimed that the dance would actually cost the aver- age Union student around $2.50 or $3.00 when they had paid for an admission ticket and dinnet· \or a few been;,\ that the average Union man taking a girl to a football game also had to buy her dinner and an evening's entertainment, !Continued on Page 4> ·--~--~·0 Elecfrieal Engineers Meet Tuesday Evening Union representatives of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will hold their first meet- ing and demonstration Tuesday evening, October 7 at 8:00 p. m. in the Electrical Engineering Build- ing. This meeting promises to be one of the most interesting of the year, for· the topic will be Frequency Modulation. Dr. E. D. Cook, head of the advance development section of the General Engineering Labora- tory at General Electric, will be the principal speaker. Dr. Cook is noted as being one of the best on F. M. in the country. However, the talk will not be technical. Another attraction at the meeting will be a demonstration by Carl Liss, General Electric dealer in Schenectady, who will compare the reception on F. M. and Standard Broadcast. Council Meetina \\' More Funds Asked :Air Corps Unit OfT ax Committee B i . Q . . d Four campus organizations were e ng rgan1ze Presiden'l''s Letter May 27. Mr. Auten graduated from Union in 1862 with the A. B. degree and in 1865 received his A. M. degree fr·om Union and his L. L. B. degree from Harvard Law School. During his last year at Union, he was presented the Warner Cup for excellence in \Virtut0 et Scientia Obtinuit.\ Son of Peter and Lydia Auten, Union's oldest alumnus was born on May 27. 1839 at Princeville and was the oldest resident of that town. During his lifetime, Mr. Auten was village clerk, trus- tee and president. For over thirty years, he was treasurer of schools. Of Mr. Auten's nine children, eight are still living. All attend- ed college and two sons graduat- ed from Harvard and two daugh- ters graduated from Wellesley. In 1938 his sons sent some peony bulbs from the Auten Peony Fields to Union to be planted in memory of their father. Percival Parris, '71, is believed to inherit the title of oldest liv- ing alumnus of the college now. Two other older alumni, however, may still be living. They are Rev. Donald McLachlan, '67, and Rev. On Eve of 31st Meeting If the Union College football team comes snarling out of Alumni gymnasi\um tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock a·nd tears the big purple and gold clad Hobart Statesmen apart while the assembled multi- tude looks on, aghast, it won't be too much of a surprise. It's about time Union scored a victory. The Dutchmen ride into tomorrow's opening home game with Hobart on a six game losing streak. They've suffered consecu- tive reversals at the hands of Ver·- mont, Williams, R. P. I., Rochester, Hamilton and Trinity. Last Satut·- day's drubbing at the hands of Trinity at Hartford was hard to take. An explosion is due soon and seems likely to hit tomorrow. Worse luck for the boys from Geneva_ Union goes on one of its \all- out\ pep rally bats tonight, starting at 7:30 o'clock. Last week's send- off for the team was noisy and spirited, but if past performances mean anything, tonight's show should be better. represented in delegations appear- i ing before a meeting of the Student Tax Committee J'esterday after- noon. All made requests for funds, either as loans or as direct ap- propriations. The tax committee will begin discussion of the re- quests at a meeting to be held next Wednesday afternoon, .foseph Fur- long, '42, chairman of the commit- To Seniors Explains Flying Cadet Training Walter Scott, '68. ~------------~--------------------- Freshmen have been hauling in backyard fences, one-holers and all mannet· of wood since yesterday afternoon and a hot time is prom- ised at the bonfire on Graduate Council field. This will get the af- fair underway. Coach Art Lawrence and Captain Bob Baker are ex- pected to be among the speakers. tee, said. Calling the attention of the rr.em- bers of the Senior Cla£s who are eligible for the draft during or upon completion of the present year to what may be a preferable alter- native, Dr. Fox addressed a letter to the seniors this week. The text of the letter follows: First Group Of Intramural Debates Run Off With Satisfactory Results Freshmen have been instructed to don pajamas, according to tradi- tion, for tonight's festivities. They'll be expected to snake dance down State street, accompanied by the band, cheerleaders, and approxi- mately 400 other Union souls. The Radio Workshop, represent- ed by Myron Mills, '42, asked the tax committee for a loan to cover costs of expansion of the UBS. A \To the members of the Clnss of commercial contract with the R. J. 1942: Reynolds Tobacco Company was of• \I am writing this letter to all fered as evidence of ability to repay Seniors, though I realize that not the loan. all will be equally interested. The Mountebanks, represented \Many .of you have definite plans by Gordon Rust, adviser, and Ed- or hopes as to how you will serve ward Fliegel, '42, manager, and the your country after June 8 next. But Debate Team, represented by Har- the draft boards are going to make vey Fishbone, '43, requested addi- the deci~ion, except in the cases ot tiona! appropriations beyond those those who have. on their own ini- granted after the hearings of last tiativc, joined some branch of the spring. armed forces. Some may have this The International Relations Club, alternative in mind as preferable to represented by Delphis Goldberg, being drafted, if for no other rea- '42, requested a direct appropriation son. of student tax funds. The I. R. C. has not been supported by the stu- Conditions for Establishing Unit dent tax for about 10 years, al- though it was formerly a recipient of tax money. ----o,--- Dr. Thatelier Annouilces Fall CAA Program, Staff Dr. Everett W. Thatcher, co- ordinator of the civilian pilot train- ing program has announced the teaching staff for the Fall program, as follows: Vortas A. Elliott, of the construction engineering depart- ment, General Electric Co., will conduct a course in Power Plants for students enrolled in the second- ary, or advanced, section, and a course in Civil Air Regulations for the primary section; courses in Navigation for both sections will be given by H. Gilbert Harlow, of the Union civil engineering depart- ment; and Dr. Thatcher, of the physics department will teach a course in Meterology for the prim- ary section, and a course in Air- craft and Radio for the secondary se:::tion. \Captain Stdney J. Lane. assigned to the Northeastern New York Re- cruiting District of the United States Army, has inquired as to how rr.any Union College men, over twenty -one :o, ears of age, would care to apply for appointment as Flying Cadets. If twenty sul:'h men are se- lected among those who can pa.o;s the special physical examination they will be organized as Union Unit No. 1. The recruiting officer is not authorized to say that all who join the unit will be ceferred by their draft boards until Commence- ment, but you would be interested in the precedents he is able to quote. Captain Lane says that in all likelihood the men will be per- mitted to carry on their training to- gether after leaving college. \The Flying Cadet is in training for about 9 months and. if satisfac- tory, may be inducted thereafter as a Second Lieutenant in the Air Corps Reserve. While a Flying Cadet he receives monthly pay of $75.00 plus maintenance allowance. A Second Lieutenant in the Air Corps receives $187.50 per month plus maintenance allowance. Skidmore Parties Begin Tomorrow Union and Skidmore freshmen will meet in the first of four inter- college parties Saturday when about 50 Union members of the Class of 1945 will ~ntertain a like number of the Skidmore first-year students. They will meet at the home of President and Mrs. Fox before at- tending the Union-Hobart football game. Dinner will be served them in Hale House at 6 p. m. Dancing from 8 to 11 p. m. is planned in Hanna Hall. The first meeting of the second- ary section will be held tonight at 7:15 in the lecture room of the Physics Laboratory, with the next meeting to follow on Monday next. The primary section, which held its first meeting last night, will report again on Friday evening of this week ----o--- PUBLlC ADDRESS SYSTEM The Concordiensis in conjunction with the Radio Club will give a resume and the statistics of the game tomorrow afternoon over the public address system at the field. \Flying Cadets must 'agree that upon successful completion of the course of instruction as a flying cadet, they will, if their services are desired. serve for three years on active duty with the Regular Army Corps Reserve Officers, un- less sooner relieved by competent authority.' During the instruction period, 'the candidate need have no apprehenSJion about being retained in the service if he is found not qualified to continue.' If the emer- gency passes within three years, it I (Continued on Page 4) Union freshmen scheduled to at- tend are: Matthew D. Arnold, Jr., James Baird, Robert Bartlett, Ed- ward Bates, James Blue, Charles Brandow, Robert Brockhurst, Ger- ald Buyce, Donald Carstens, Robert Carter, Arthur Clarke, James Coap- man, David Cohen, Harold Drake, Dean S. Eger, Jr., William Eger, Elfric Evenson, Aaron Feinsot, Raymond Finch, James Fluker, Thomas Flynn, Floyd Glenn, Sey- mour Glucroft, Spencer Gowrie, Alonzo Grace, John Grant, Thoma,s Hanson, Joseph Harmon, Elton Harvey, Etienne Helft, James Her- bert, Henry Hochuli, Jack Hock- man, Thomas Hoffman, Marvin Isenberg, Edward Kearton, William Kling, Lee Landes, Robert Lange, James LaPann, David Mandeville, John Mann, Joseph Mann, Peter Martin, Chester Marvin, John Mc- Carthy, George Middlemiss, Robert O'Hara. Alden Ople, David Platzer, Lewis Pultz, Richard Raymond, Denton Robinson, Milton Russum, Harry Shaw, Dean Smith, George Stark, Silas Steinhart, Charles Stewart, Colin Taylor, Armand Ven;aci, John Vosburgh, Irwin Welber, James Wheeler, Kendric White, Benjamin Wiltsie. Program of events for the first Union-Skidmore Freshman Party tomorrow has been announced as follows: 1:30-Meet at President Fox's home. 2:00-Atu>nd Union- Hobart game. Following the game, the Hale House Lounge will be open. 6:00-,-Dinner at Hale House. 9-11:00-Dance, Hanna Hall. Delta Phi Amasses 37 Points for High Score; Forfeits Mar Program First round winners in the Union College intramural debating pro- gram inaugurated this we<.:lk by the Philomathean Debating Society were announced today_ Alexander field gets its rebaptism tomorrow afternoon. Unused, except for the closing baseball game last spring, since the final home game of the 1939 football season, the field will, in a sense, be rededicated. No special ceremonies are planned, however. Varsity Uses Field Fifteen fraternities and dormi- Yesterday the varsity used the tory groups entered teams in the field for the first time in practice. competition with three forfeiting. It was a sight to behold. Juniors A full quota of teams is expected and seniors had almost forgotten to participate in the second debate the oldtime familiar sight of a series next Tuesday, however. Union team on Alexander field. Most vigorous debate of the week Games last year were played at was conceded by leaders to be the Mont Pleasant High's field ... and Kappa Alpha-Delta Chi talkfest it didn't seem right. Some say that when Kenneth Payne and Ray- was a factor in the poor 1940 sea- mend Aldrich of KA piled up 29 son. points to 24 amassed by Milton There isn't much to choose be- Neubauer and Richard Leftwich of tween the Union and Hobart teams. Delta Chi. Hobart isn't as weak as reports of In the same league, Robert Me- three and fout· weeks ago indicated. gaw and Robert Bishop of North Even the perennial pessimist, Coach College won 23-11 over Charles \Speed\ Wilson, isn't moaning Stewart and John Grant of Chi Psi about his prospects at Hobart this and Fred Schmeltzer and Frank fall. That is truly an ominous sig-n. Hasselbacher of Kappa Sigma tied Union has an advantage over the Robert Hines and Donald Hudson Statesmen in having played one of Phi Gamma Delta at 10 all. game. Hobart will be playing its Delta Phi represented by Roy first contest tomorrow. This may Webster and Frank Thyne took the work hard against the visitors, South College team of Louis Steege since 15 of their 31 men are sopho- and Richard Watanabe by 37-5. mores who have never played a Theta Delta Chi edged out Delta varsity game. Upsilon 22-30 in a contest between There is only one senior on the Charles Colesano and William Wei- Hobart team. He is Roy <Cotton) ler of the Theta Delt.s against John Weber, captain and quarterback of Pellettier and Robert Hayner of the the Geneva eleven. D. U.'s. Union fields a predominantly sen- Sigma Phi with a team of Oscar ior club. Three members of the Kreusi and Albert Sanborn took the starting backfield are veterans of Phi Delta Theta team of George three varsity seasons. They are Lee Larios and Donald Abood, 33-30. Sherman, fullback; \Red\ Killian, Phi Sigma Kappa, Psi Upsilon, right halfback, and Ed Enstice, left and Beta Theta Pi won when AI- halfback. On the line there will be pha Phi Delta, the neutrals, and seniors: Bob Davis and Stew Gold- Alpha Delta Phi forfeited. blatt with Bundy Shaw, Bob Hal- Faculty judges of the debates lenbeck, Gordie Semerad and Abe were Dr. Frederick L. Bronner, Dorsman ready for service, Dr. Douglas W. Campbell, Mr. Jo- Captain Bob Baker may not get seph Rotundo and Dr. Harold F. into the game. His serious hip in- Sylvester. jury was still bothering him a lot Next Tuesday's schedule is: 7:15 last night and Coach Art Lawrence --Kappa Nu at Delta Phi, Sigma may decide to save him, not want- Chi and North College at Silliman ing to chance aggravating the in- Hall, Alpha Phi Delta at Psi Up- jury. However, \Bake\ will prob- silon; 8:15-Delta Upsilon at Alpha ably be in uniform and may see ac- Delta Phi, Chi Psi at Phi Gamma tion if he is badly needed. Lean Delta, Phi Delta and the neutrals Frank Jones will start at center in in Hale House; 9:15-Theta Delta his place. I Chi at Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Alpha Coaches Lawrence and Ralph at .Kappa Sigma, and Phi Sigma 1 Semerad announced last night that Kappa at Phi Delta Theta. (Continued on Page 4)

OJlft C!!UtttltfbitU.dtS FRI~AY, OCTOBER 3, 1941 EDITORIAL 2 Member of the Associated Colleg-iat t\ Prt:\:3:3 atni db:·- tnbutor uf lh~ Collegiate Digf!Sl ltt.:pn·:~t:Hllt:u ful :\atLunal Al1Vt.:1 thang lJ) !'atiou\'l Advertising s~r \- let:, !Ill'., Colleg~.: PUIJii~r~· t•rs l~t pre.:H:~ntativt:::, 4:.!l, Scene They't•e never too old to learn. Professor Whital{e-r is taking Math 2. And he says he used to teaeh it 25 years ago. .. ------------------·----------------------------- ... , I I ! The Corn Is Green I I I I I ·------------------------------------------------- :\'ladititJ!L . ..\ \'eHUe. ?\ t:\\ York Cit.• \.I Causa Pasa Parult I ssai\ I·:;illorml Office. ::l1llimari I bll. l\111on Col1~3e Pub- ltl'.ttiuL Ul'f.uJ. Tht= Ua- t.t:ttt-' PI~:::-~. J3! State St. t·~t.tt.r-t..:d u. l·ht: .:::k.ht=llt'L:~ ; .li'Y Pu:-t or. J{'t: ~~s :::ll'l'M uHU Clu~~ .\'la.ii .\'lattt:I. btl!J..:l\l :ptlOH ~C a L'OllY; $;) y~..~at; ttclivei·Lli ttlt)'\Vh~l·t,; 11 tile Ctdted State::i. Correction On Tht\ Screen--This weekend, -S. G. DRAMA I toRgue-in-cheek kick out of it the guiding spirit of Darryl Zan- BOORS . seniur Board V.' e cned in the last column, put- ting Sherry Hillick down for a \poor\ hitchhiker. He arrived in Hartford at 12 midnight, not 12- noon as we said. His thumb wag- ging now ratE's an \A\. uck, the mighty mite of the movies, 1 What Mal{('ii Sammy Rwt'? by holds sway at Schenectady's two I :;-cteen wrHer Budd Sch~l~erg, is first run pitcher palaces. At th~ 1 the book of th7 ;yea1. .A brtlng tale Proctor',; he preo;ents \Sun Valle:o; I of an enterpnsmg little heel m serenade,\ and at the State we are \Glamour Junction,\ it is as caustic t 1 eated to \Belle Starr.\ \Seienade\ and realistic a character study as is another one of Mr. Z's glorified has ever been written about thl' musicals of onE> of America's glol'i-1 west coast movie town. Sammy fied vacation resorts. This is feath- 1 Glick rises from office boy to Hal- er-weight stuff with a minimum of ' Iywood producer by way of the Sonja Henle's skating and a maxi- 1 double cross, and his finally crossed mum of John Payne's mugging. By I by himself by one of his own ilk. way of report, Mr. Payne is now a I Tile writing technique is of thP 1 egular in Zanuck's \One Night Hemingway and O'Hara school, In ... \ series, and not just a sub- and is even more terse and hard- stitute for Don Ameche, as has bitten. Armand Y. l'clH·enuuum ..... . . .... h.<.i!J!J.:.t .\u lluu.:--t. 1-ia~n ....... _ ........... Eultor-in-Chlcf JUblill l't>l\hHlll ........... . Solomon lllechman ......... . ..... Ka!Jpa .:-.:u Huw•w t-7331 15 \ll•'dit· :--::.·.·rill!'. '-\nrtl ('•lltgt . ...................... llu•lne•s 3lanaget\ tj-~l~h.iti . . . .•...•..... ~lunnging t:tJltur ,) onathan Pour•ou ........... . . ......... ~~~rna Ph1 l'l.H·t>- -~-68~1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . sp·urtb Etlltur Snmtwl Portnoy .. _ .......... . ........... KapJJa 2\u Iit .. U~l-- -l-7~:..:1 ................ , ......... ASbOCiate Etlltor J.unlur Bol\rll- -Hubl.'l'l lla\'ltct, ThPill.L:- O'ConJ1or. Har·- vey Fl;-;hhone, Jat:k SchUlz, l~rauger Tripp :\orman F'ox, Staff PhotugraJmt>r Sopllomorr Borntl-Thomas Cullen, \\\1liinrn Hart, Al- bert ·Krurudi, l·~d\'.ahi JtdliJSolt, :-it.\YIJHIUI Tllldonall. Bu..,int•..,.., 'o\ta.H ~-lt'l\·lllt> :U ... \-..::·t·ll'~Pr Davitl Hosenhhun. ;Hardu l'tanwr. lttl-1'\I'Y Fj..,,)lhnnP . ., ·~=-=-~-·-=-~-~-=-~~----~~~-=--~-=-=-==---~-- .~==-=-~==~----- Paddle - . - .. - ~--·_-_. _===..::.. ~-::: ::--~ Last week !lve French youths, from 16 to 19, canoed across the English Channel to join the Free French forces of General De Gaulle. This is the first instance that Herr Hitler is beginning to feel the ef- fect of the paddle. Friday, OC'tober 3. 1941 SOMETHING DIFFERENT ON SPIRIT We have to break tradition set by a long line of edito1·s. This newspaper has for years had as stand- ard editorial policy, a crackling editorial be- fore the first home football g·ame of the yea1·. Freshmen we!'e to be lambasted fo1· theil· lack of college consciousness, cheerlead- ers for their apathy, the student body fm· itg dis interest. Yet a weeli: ago one of the best spontan- eous rallies in our memory saw Union's team off to Trinity. The cheerleaders planned well and led even better. Campus dwellers were out en masse. The next day a sizeable body of rooters made the two hundred sixty mile round trip to Hartford. They cheered themselves hoarse for their team. A pre-game ral1y is planned fm· tonight. Freshmen, upperclassmen, cheerleadet·s, Glee Oub members, men in the Band-all are preparing for an all-out demonstration of the support behind the Garnet football team. That is real college support; we may be witnessing the rebirth of true spirit here at Union. You don't editorialize against that sort of thing: ag·ainst cheerleaders who lead, or freshmen who gather faggots, Ol' seniors who make sure that their houses are out at the mllies. You praise the new spirit of the col- lege of which they are members, as The Concordiensis is happy to do tonight. You say to the college in which this change has taken place: Let's keep up the good work-and we'll see you out there in front of the gym at 7:30. THE NEUTRALS HAVE TO SHOW US Union neutrals have been complaining for years rubout the lack of opportunity that the campus offers them. They have complained about lack of small dances, of a real game room in which they could lounge, of an op- portunity to know each other through organ- ization, of the lean days of their sports teams. Wednesday night a proposal was defeated for a small college dance after the R. P. I. game. There was a call to speak at the Coun- cil meeting· fo1· all neutrals who felt that their group wanted such an affair. One neu- tral Council member spoke. Wednesday afternoon the Neutrals forfeit- ed a touch football game to Sigma Phi. .L\Iany able-bodied neutrals were lounging around or about the campus during the time of the game. Last year a serious move was on foot here for the establishment of a campus meeting place where beer would be served at certain times and where a real game and lounging room would be available. The project petered out due to lack of support, with no neutral voices being raised. Cry of the neutrals relates to fraternity opposition, to college apathy to their needs; they insist they can do nothing individually, that no more than five neutrals can ever be active in the same project at once, that no general neutral support is forthcoming for any program. All of which may be phrased as specious rationalization or, more precisely, hot air. The only opposition to the development of campus advantages for neutrals is the atti- Scores tude of the neutrals themselves: previously been rumored. On the Mildred Pierce, the new novel by credit side of the ledger are Milton the sensational James M. Cain, is The National Broadcasting Com- Berle, a funny fellow, and Lynn . frankly a disappointment. After No project on this campus has ever been pany has announced that it will Bar!, a beautiful babe. Also pres- \The Postman Always Rings f h send football scores to the armed . ent for more than one gcJOd meas- Twice\ and \Serenade Cain has begun by a gToup 0 more t an five men; forces of the United States abroad ure is Glenn Miller and his or-1 given his readers a let-down. Mil- support has been forthcoming fron1 the gen- by way of short wave. The top ser- chestra. ctred Pierce is a determined woman em! maJ· ority after the pl'OJ. ect has been well geant will, no doubt, bring the pla- In \Belle Starr\ we have another who builds ;·ecurity for her family toon to attention and command, round in the rather one-sided en- with her brains and her hands, only begun. Fraternity opposition, college apathy \Order arms. Stand at ease while counter between Zanuck and His- to have it torn away by her Bar- -both are filrments of hna2.·ination. we listen to the scores.\ tory, with History taking the usual gia-?like daughter. The character ~ ~ beating. After having exhausted llf the daughter is extremely well If the non-fraternity men-01· a small Bath and Car the supply of legendary male out- done, but the portrayal of Mildred f th t b · d · f laws, we are now given a taste of is blun·ed and unreal. group o en1-\Vere 0 egtn a nve ·01' se- Crows \The Amherst Student\: a member of the distaff side draw- Darlmess At Noon, by ex-com- <-: • \\ \' \' gun to take effect. In life, as in a \Home-Girl\ Tierney .has the title erful novel of the famous Moscow curine· themselves a lomwino- and o-cune room !\The laws of compensation have be- ing from a well rounded hip. Gene munist Arthur Koestler, is a pow- of their OWn, the entire college WOUld SUpport football game, one person does not· t·ole and looks and acts like a road t• ials. The author throws new light them_ If the non-fraternity men were to be- s~ay down all the time. For a pe- company Vivien Leigh. Oh well, not only on Russia, but on the . _ . I rwd of weeks now, Amherst boys it's in technicolor, it's not shoot- conflict between the individual and gm a move or the establishment of several have had to get along without ing, it's about the ol' South, and the state. which is rampant every- small dances, which benefit them far more I cars. This is a tragedy in a major you'll probably get some kind of a where today. The characterizationo;- h I d . . way. But now, thanks to Holyoke's a: e brilliant, and scene after scene t an t ley 0 any fratenuty man, the entire I Dean of Residence, Amh.erst boys possesses dramatic impact.-R.C.C. college would suppol't them. are not the only ones bemg tram- sidering the tremendous number . pled on. For Mt. Holyoke has ba.n- of baths a girl can take each day. Neutrals Will have to demonstrate their ned the bath. It is indeed pitiful to This would make it necessary to interest in these several pl'OJ. ects, or hold contemplate a boy without a bus, go uninterruptedly to Smith for but a babe without a bath defied all nocturnal visits, something no their peace now and forever. Their collective any sort of descriptions, delicate or student should be asked to en- actions in the past have certainly shown otherwise.\ dm·e, even in times like these. I · d · · \Due to some sort of water short- \There will be a mass exodu: 1 t 1e1r group eservmg of httle support. age, the gals over the Notch are this weekend, as every girl finan-' THE IMPORTANCE OF DECISION being compelled to get along with- cially able pulls out for home to out shampoos, showers, tubs and enjoy the luxury of a warm bath all the other accepted and appar- in true twentieth century style.\ t1 d f d Cars banned at Williams and l\Ir. James Stewart of vesterday's chapel en ':! .nec~ssary ~ee s. 0 n;o ern Amhnrst, restrictt>d at othPr p!a('e-s,, ' ' ' I femmrne lrfe. Their darly ratiOn of ' is an American in the best tradition of the water is enough to dash in thei.r baths bannt'd at Mt. Holyoke- Gad nation. 1\lr_ Stewart is not afraid to face dif- eyes before brea~fast,. and. possr- wt\'rp lu<'ky, wt> still have our cars bly put a sheen m therr hatr, but and Skidmore still has its baths. little else. Happy'? Honor SOMETHING NEW A Smash Hit on Columbia Records Benny Goodman's \The Counf' coupled with \I See a Million People\ Columbia No. 36379 at ficult .situations, analyze them, make a deci- sion upon one side, and follow through that decision with action. Democracy is a political philosophy formed upon actions by leaders based upon the col- lective action-wishes of the majority. De- mocrac~· can never be effective unless the majority of the adults in a democratic nation emulate Stewart, take the time and the cour- age to face squarely the issues which face them, and make decisions upon them_ \The Amherst undergraduate is accustomed to infrequent visits to South Hadley, at which time he feels fairly sure of a date. Unless something is done to alleviate the present situation, he is going to find himself refused on the grounds that 'I haven't had a bath in two weeks.' Or even two hours, con- Our contemporary up the valley, 'The Hamilton Life,\ says that the new wired iadio system at Ham- ilton is to be known as \W.H.C.\ 1 in honor of President Cowley. The I idea is appealing. UBS might well change its call letters to \DRF.'' Cluett & Sons ln times like these, the man v.:ho is the 1 most ostrich-like isolationist, or America First proponent, is more in the democratic tradition of the nation than the man who pas- sively neglects his responsibility to consider the problems of the nation, even though the majority of us disagree with him. It is more than ever true in democratic society today that the man who doesn't think is a far greater menace to the democratic process than the man \vho decides the wrong way. THE COUNCIL SCHEDULES A MEETING We hope that someone perfonns a miracle for the men supposed to be meeting· at 7:30 tonight in the first organization of the Inter- fraternity Council. They have before them the task of organizing, appointing a commit- tee, arranging· for decorations, signing a band, printing and selling tickets, making the thousand and one arrangements for a large campus social function-in five weeks. Fortunately one man, Fred Wikoff-had the initiative to call a meeting of the group, which is without office1·s or organization; if he had not made the necessary arrangements there would not even be a meeting tonight, which is bound to be slashed in some fashion by the rally. Someone will have to perform that miracle for the Council; it is going to need one. And the campus should realize that what- ever difficulties may be encountered in ar- ranging· for Interfraternity Ball this year may not be traced to one man or group of men. It should be traced to the inefficient nebulous organization of the Interfraternity Council which does not come together at the beginning of a year until the representative of one house has the initiative to telephone other fraternities to send representatives to a meeting-. A F T E R T H E G A M E T H E p E R F 508 Statt> St. Above Savings Bank E c T p VAN CURLER TAP ROOM L A y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3 Ha v E Se c 0 c La coun stra\\ day. nigh tack! of V erno' La kind boys to a tJnio were Wh0 Ve runn lins this lins look tor;~r. Di ing He ~ line Coni last Two ishe< and cr: Bob on t mor1 lie In mak the Inti lisi In Wed sion· nigh Wed con:: Cc be 1 rei a: six J HI awa fran one low~ w yare 440-: Tl I 440-: I i I St I I CUI'E I Che garr: I wee pre~ ets\ mit1 will the Si tick tak< A con· the for_ - I

! I I I by is in as hE' ed hP ol, d- by is an ily ell m- ht I 3 Ha:rriers To Meet Ve:rmont In Season Opener Catamounts Are Favored Over Dauntless Ketzmen; Conly Is Ac:tinCJ Captain Looks as if the varsity cross- country team has drawn the short straw .for its opening meet Satur- day. The men of Ketz leave to- night for Burlington where they'll tackle the hard-running University of Vermont harriers tomorrow aft- emoon. Last year Vermont didn't get any kind of competition from Bill Ketz' boys. The Catamount ru:nners loped to a r5-40 victory here. First two Union men over the finish line were Don Collins and Charley Snell, who finished up in a tie for eighth. VetN·ans Return Vermont has six of the seven runners who finished ahead of Col- lins and Snell last year back on this year's squad. Meanwhile Col- lins has graduated. Thus, the out- look is not bright for a Union vic- tor:f. Dick Conly, a junior, will be act- ing captain tomorrow for Union. He should be the No. 1 across the line man for the Garnet tomorrow. Conly didn't run the Vermont meet last year, as he was not in school. Two years ago, however, he fin- ished up ninth against the Green and Gold. Charley Snell, Bob Shepherd and Bob Reed are the other veterans on the Union squad. Three sopho- mores, Herb Adams, Jules Vig- lielmo and Bob Heywood, will also make the trip. They'll run under the heading of dark horses. ----•o--- Intramural Track M.eet listed for Next Week Intramural track starts next Wednesday at 4:30 o'clock, Commis- ::;ioner Bill Ketz announced last night. The meet will be held both Wednesday and Thursday and will consist of eight events. Competition for individuals will be limited to two events, plus the relays. Teams must enter at least six men for entrance points. Holders of \aUa\ and Block \U\ awards in varsity track are barred from competition. Otherwise, every- one is eligible. The schedule fol- lows: Wednesday-50-yard dash, 120- yard low hurdles: 220-yard dash; 440-yard relay. Thursday-100-yard dash, shotput, 440-yard dash; 880-yard relay. ----•0•---- Football Tickets Students will be required to pro- cure tickets for their seats in the Cheering Section for each varsity game. These may be obtained one week in advance of each game by presentation of the \Athletic Tick- ets\ at the gymnasium office. Ad- mittance to the Cheering Section will be denied to all non-holders by the ushers. Students must show both their tickets at the gate to the ticket- takers. All persons attending athletic contests are REQUIRED to take the seats which their tickets call for. SPORTS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1941 Better Watch 'Em Union! l..c=======~ I Yearling Harriers Goi.ng Places Fast Yearling Eleven Looking Better Hobart has two bacl.dield stars who'll bear watching in tomor- J!OW's game here. They are pic- tured above. The punte~• is Jack O'Shea.. triple-threat junior act> who'll carry tlw offensive burden Football Sage Bill Ketz gives his breth- ren of the athletic dt\partment a chance to catch up to him this week-end in the Concord~· football contest. He picked nine out of nine games correctly last wet\k for tl1e visitors. Tht\ other ge-nt is Hobart's capt·ain. r.o~· (Cotton) Weber, quarterback. Selections - By an~ holds a one-game lead on his thrt>t' opponl'nts, Art LawrencE', Hal vt'ittnet· and AI Ciampa, all of wht>m stumbled once last vrce~>. One gamp of last WPek's contt-st was rulPd out last night Two Ti:x and $Hi- They Are Yours- For the Picking TW() of Mr. Proctor's finest s!'ats and 10 silver dollars a.wait you if you're lucky in picldng the winnl'rs in thl' Concordy football contest this wel'lt. Details in last Tuesday's issue. Ent rie' must be- in the Con- cordy mailbox by 10 a. m. tomor- ·I'OW, Hef<' are thE'> gamt>s: Hamilton R. P. I, ...... . 1 So. Cal ...... . Ohio State .... Princeton ..... Williams Colby Norwich .Brown Columbia Pittsi>m•gh .... Purdue ....... . Harvard ...... . Pennsylvania .. Tennessee ..... Yale Virginia ...... . Name .......................... . Address ........................ . With their opening meet but a week away, the freshman cross- country men look very, very good. They are far ahead of lasl year's team in the matter of conditioning and time tl'ials ... and last year's Ciampa Drills Club For Middlebllry Tilt; Shows Good Defense combination was rated pretty Although Ft·eshman Football highly. Coach Al Ciampa is working witn Small wond·er then that Coach a rathet· slow team, he say,; that Bill Ketz is rather enthusiastic the cubs ar·e improving steadily, about his chances of piloting the proven per hap,; by their good dcfen· cub::; to a succes::;ful sea::;on in their sive game in scrimmage with the four meets. The frosh open their varsity on Tuesday and Wednes- campaign by running Canton State day. school here next Saturday. T~wn on \Champ a:; yet doc,; not have a October 22 they tackle Deihl State definite starting line-up for the school here. Three days later on 1 tilt with Middlebury which is the 25th they have their annual :scheduled fur October 11 at Mid- clash with R. P. I. here. Their lone dlebury but will form one in a day away meet will be run November or so. 1 at Williamstown with the Pur- Middlebury frosh promise to pro- pie freshmen. vide strong opposition and since Four· men in particular have there is only one experienced back- caught Mentor Ketz's fancy. They field man, Johnny Short, who are Charlie Gade, Jim Quinlan, played for Kingston, the outlook George Middlemiss and Ken White. for the initial try does not look too All have had previous experience. encouraging. However, Coach Ci- Gade was captain of the Nott ampa promises to have a unified 1 II Terrace cross country team last team working for the traditional Exper ''-'S year and Quinlan was on the Ter- R. P. I. game on October 25. 1. race team two years ago. The fact \A sure starter,\ says Ciampa, that these boys are former Nott \is Johnny Short, a good defensive ==========~ Terrace men means a lot for Nott man.\ Although not a heavyweight, when it was learned that it wasn't P\'Bn pia~ ed. Hl'l'l' thl'y arl' -but we warn you-don' thave an:'\c bt•ts rid1ng on tlw rt-sults! Terrace is the perennial national he is pretty fast. Other fellows who scholastic cross country champion. look good are \Bud\ Taylor, Hal Then there are Middlemiss and Fox, Bob Lange, and Don Carstens. White, both of whom ran cross The team needs a lot of training country in prep school. Middlemiss but has responded well to coach· was at Pawling and White at ing. The cubs' offensive is still spot- Mount Hermon. ty, due chiefly to their lack of un- These four have already shown ity and coordination. Hamilton-R. P. I ................... R. P. I. R. P.I. So. CaHf. P1•inceton Columbia Pur4fue Harva1·d Duke Virginia S, M. U. Calif01'11ia H. P.I. themselves quite capable in time Mentor Al is dealing with a squad trials. On September 26 the times of about thirty men, and nobody of the first three men on this year's will be cut. At one time this year team were 16:55, 16:59, and 17:04, forty fellows were out for the team, as compared with 17:10, 17:11, and which is a surprisingly large Hamilton 17:20 of the last year's Freshmen amount. So. Calif.-OhioState ................ So. Calif. So. Calif. Princeton Columbia Purdue l't>nns~·l.,·ania Tennesspe Yale Fordham California Ohio State on October 1 of last year. ---o---- Princeton-Williams ................ Pr;nceton Williams Though these men promise to be Brown-Columbia ................... Columbia Columbia as good as anything Union has had ATTENTION FRESHMEN Pittsburgh-Purdue ................. Purdue Purdue in recent years, there are still three Harvard-Penns;rlvania ............. Pennsylvania Pt>nnsylvania positions on the team to be filled. Freshmen must know their cheers Duke--Tennessee ................... Oulu• Duke The most likely candidates for and songs for tomorrow's football Yale-Virginia ...................... Yale Virginia these positions are Beale, Eger, game. They'll be expected to wear S. M. U.-Fordham ................. Fordham S. M. U. Kamm, Maur, and Rosekrans. All their caps and disport themselv~s Wash. State-California ............. California - \_!\_'a_s_h.~ta~e ___ j ~~;h~ 1 !.e11°~~~~~ 11 [h~~ 0 ~o~t~ b~~~ ~e-~~~:~~{f!~:o ;em:X~~~-~e~stt~::= Seniors~ Juniors Win Class Scraps When the dust had cleared away from yesterday's opening interclass touch football games, it appeared pretty evident that the Juniors <1943) are definitely the class to beat for the title this year. Captain Kenny Sharpe tutored his boys to a 12-0 victory over the freshmen. Frank England tallied both winning touchdowns. This al- lowed the class of 1943 to continue undefeated in touch football. The current Junior class has not been beaten at the sport since entering school •way back in 1939. While the Juniors were marchin,; to a comparatively easy triumph, the Seniors were nosing out the tenacious Sophomores in a nip-and- tuck battle. Benny Jakabowski, var- sity basketball captain, decided the issue by tagging a fellow court- man, Eddie Allen, behind his goal line for a safety. Next Thursday the Seniors tangle with the Freshmen and the al- mighty Juniors tussle with the Sophomores. Then on October 16 , the Seniors and Juniors battle and the Freshmen and Sophomores stage their annual \grudge fight.\ I'\;=!==============================~~- this year and later, as many oth- · tlc1pate m the double lme of stu- ers have done, but at present, they I dents who welcome the UNION Touch Football are all too inexperienced to be I VARSITY as it trots out onto the really top-notch harriers. 1 field to face the starting gun. Phi Gamma Delta had one of its MONDAY-TUESDAY SLATE ' ----- - closest shaves in months Wednes-T Touch football season reaches its I day when Alpha Delta Phi held its 1 peak next week. Monday's and I touch football team to a 6-0 vic- 1 Tuesday's schedules follow: 1 tory. The Alpha Delts were still Monday-Delta Phi vs. Beta The- patting themselves on the back yes-Ita Pi, south end, Council field; Sig- terday. :rna Chi vs. Alpha Delta Phi, north end, Library field; South College Other intramural football results vs. Kappa Sigma, south end, Li- follow: Beta Theta Pi 8, Psi Upsi- brary field; Delta Upsilon vs. Sig- lon 0; Kappa Sigma 21, Phi Sigma rna Phi, north end, Council field. Kappa 19; Delta Upsilon 14, Delta ---o I Phi 6; Chi Psi 13, Kappa Alpha 0; NOTICE Sigma Phi 2, Neutrals 0; (forfeit), . Mr. Wyatt has announced that Sigma Chi 2, North College 0, (for-! Lacrosse practice will take place feitl. :Monday through Friday, from 4:30· It's \U\ for UNION and for VICTORY • • • ··-· • WE ARE BEHIND UNION All THE WAY AND READY TO GIVE YOU THE BEST OF SERVICE JACOB'S DRUG STORE NOTT & CARRIE ST. L. J. Linsey '22 WHAT ARE YOU DOING WITH YOUR LAUNDRY THIS YEAR? • •• HAVE YOU TASTED UNION COLLEGE BOOKSTORE DOBLER \On the Campus .. P. 0. N. r 1111 il iii II iiiiiiiil I i il iillllll IIIII mill ii iill~ II II IIIII ii II 1111111 iiiii i I iiiiii I iilu Ill IIIII~ I I BEER andALE At your favorite Fountain or Neighborhood Store Insist .On GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. Phone 4-3121 = = - TOPCOATS = - = Fall Sale! Reg. $16.95 NOW$12.95 All wool herring bones and reversibles. Gaberdine lining. Ragline shoulders and storm collars. Tan, green,-blue, hether. A better method is to send it home regularly by RAIL- WAY ExPRESS-and have it returned the same way. Our service is fast, sure-and convenient. Economical rates include pick-up and delivery at no extra charge within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and prin- cipal towns. Your choice of prepaid or collect charges. Just as convenient too, for 'most any shipment: Baggage, gifts, cake or a pet elephant. ss NATION·WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE ---IIIMIEJ·ME-·



I ld I I I I and and I wHI will nni- be line of ·i·pl£\ rish fu:ll- and I, tern sea- of wHl Nalt and rl'es Abe ulze, I I I I l I i I I II _, llllllfrffi Neutrals State Position Page 2 Volume LXV. Number 8 p ho~ws. Editorial ~-0133 ·Press ·i-4141 • The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1941 • Freshman ts Party Pictures Page 4 Price Sc f'reshrna:n Class Officer Nominees Selected Monday Tidmarsh Marks Reco,rdAs·Organist With 500th Weekly Recital Sunday Waldron Says Concerts Have Changed Whole Tone Of College Musical Life ~---- --------- Plans A·nniversary Interfraternity Coun(il Organized, Names Wi.koff, Coates, Lelan,d Offi(ers 90 Percent Attendance Highlights Enthusiastic Meeting as 20 Are Named Dr. Elmer A. Tidrnarsh, Dit ector of MusLc, will mark the achieve- . ment of a rem>rd as organist here In ene of the most enthusiastic . when he presents his 500th recital in Memorial Chapel next Sunday. class meeUngs held 0 n this cam- The story of his nearly 16 years of pus in many years, 18 men were unending enthusiasm in the work nominated for positions as fresh- of these recitals is the story of the man class officers in Old Chapel growth of a tradition which has, in yesterday. An estimated 90 per the words 0f Dr. Oharles N. Wald- cent of the class cheered and ron, secreta 1 ·y of the college, shouted for the floor as Student ·'changed the whole tone of the mu- Body President Robert J. Killian sica! life of the college\. called for nominations. Neal'ly every fraternity group The series of recitals, Dr. Tid. put up a candidate. An innovation marsh said after his 499th concert at class nominating meetings was Sunday, was begun with the en- dfected when Killian called upon couragement of Dr. Charles A. Rich- each of the candidateB to stand up, moDd, then president of the college, so that he might be identified by who had been largely Pesponsible his classmates. Elections wiH be for the erection of Memorial Chapel. The new chapel had been dedicated held after Daily A~sembly tomor- shortly before the presentation of row. the first concert, on February 7, The Nominees 1926. The men named, with informa- tion concerning their high school careers, are as follows: A. Melcher Anderson was Co-Edi- tor of his high school year book and paper, also a Fourth H0nor Student. Robeit Bartlett was President of his class his Freshman year in high school and took part in athletics. He played basketball, baseball, foot- ball and was a track man. Ed Bates was the associate edi- tor of his school paper, second stu- dent in his class, and a varsity man in basketball and football. Also Ed golfed and swam in his spare time. Rt>ginald Carroll takes the cake for being the nominee with the heaviest high school record. He holds \letters'' in four major sports. Then he was a debater and vice president of his class the first year and president of the class his sec- end and third years. Don Carstens was a Iacross and basketball man and a member of l'T a tiona! Honor Society. Thomas F1ynn played cornet and bat it one in his high school's band ulong with holding up the athletic end of things by playing football and running for the track team. Richard Griffing stuck mostly to the scholastic and musical side. He headed the interclass debate, sang on the choir and glee club, and still found time enough to study the amount necessary to get a ninety-two average on the \re- gents.\ Irwin Herman was Freshman President and a varsity baseball and track man. Edward Kea1·ton was a football End hockey man at Pauling. George Middlemiss was a real sportsman, besides being sports ed- itor on the \Pauling Record,\ he took part in basketball, soccer, ten- nis, and track himself. Richard Mm~phy stood high schoh nstically, was on the yearboo!{ staff and a varsity track man for three years. \I'm sure that it never occur red to me then,\ Dr. Tidmarsh said, \that this recital was to be the first of such a series. But you don't think of things like that-you are too much bound up with your work to think of anything else. Perhaps that is why I can truthfully say that I have never once said to my- self, 'I wish I didn't have to play next Sunday.\ His Audience Is Grateful As Dr. Tidmarsh talked to his interviewer, a number of the merr .. bers of his audience came to the ft·ont of the chapel to express their thanks and appreciation of the re- cital. When they had gone, he said, \The thought that these people are receiving inspiration or enjoyment from the programs, as they say they do, has been another thing that has made it impossible for me to tire of presenting them.\ \The one determining factor that has dominated my policy in select- ing the compositions for these pro- grams has been variety,\ Dr. Tid- marsh explained. \No two succes- sive programs are ever similar.\ \'Each pro&ram contains at least one familiar selection, and once a month I play a whole program of familiar music\ he said. \I was very much impressed by a student who told me that he was never in- spired by music unless the composi- tion was familiar.\ \Beyond that, I have tried to stick to the works of the moz e seri- ous composers, ;because these com- positions seem more in keeping with the atmosphere of the chapel Sunday, and the surroundings,\ Dr. Tidmarsh went on. \It was Dr. Richmond who first requested that the programs be kept somewhat in the mood of a vesper service, and this policy has seemed to be popu. Jar with the audiences.\ According to Dr. Waldron, who was one of Dr. Tidmarsh's most faithful listeners during the early days of the concerts, the recitals have seen an ever-increasing popu- larity. The early audiences were small, he said, because few people !mew of the recitals. As they be- f·Continued on Page 4) Dr. Tidmarsh rehearses for his 500th Anniversary Recital to be given this Stmday. Mountebanks Cast First Play Tonight The Mountebanks will hold try- outs for \Outward Bound\ on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, October 7th and 8th, in their thea- tre in Washburn Hall. Tryouts will begin at seven-thirty and the com- petition for the six available male parts is expected to be keen. These parts, with a very brief ~haracterization of each follow: Tom-Young gentleman, habitu- ally drunk, well-groomed, witty, sarcastic and alert. Scrubby-We see him as a ship's steward, though not an ordinary one. A tolerant, humble, and at the same time authoritative person who leads human beings from this world into the next. Mr. Lingley-A bombastic, domi- neering business man who succeed- t-d financially because of his un- derhanded business practices. 1\.fl-. Thompson-Jovial and sin- cere old clergyman. He serves as examiner of and advism· to the people who are in the running for admission into the next world, Rev. Duke-Young clergyman who, when death frees him from the conventional religious trappings, discovers that his duty lies in min- isterial service even though the cut-and-dried ceremony of Chris- tianity almost forced him from this work. Henry-- Young man driven to sui- cide because of the condemnation he received from a society which dlscovered his rather unconvention- al love affair. \Outward Bound\' is a fantasy which the Mountebanks say will be ftmusing enough to satisfy even the most exacting audience when it is produced late this fall. Those students who appeared at the first meeting of the Mounte- banks, and who are interested in the production phase of the theatre, should get in touch with Abe Bakal, Phi Sigma Delta, Bakal announced. Plans Made to Consider Constitution Revision To Strengthen Group A,; a reward for his initiative in calling a meeting of the Interfra- temity Council, Frederick C. Wi- koff, '43 was elected President of that body at their first meeting Friday evening. William R. Coates, '42, and Benjamin T. Leland, '43, wet•e elected Secretary and Treas- u·rer, 1 e~pectively. First business of the new Inter- fraleJ'nity Council was an organiza- tion of the r:apidly approaching In- terfraternity Ball. Wikoff an- nounced that he had already been ~ar rying on negetiations with sev- eral bonds, and that in his opinion there were two possibilities within the price range of the council. The c0uncil selected him as chairman of the dance. Wilmff Dance Chairman Members pointed out that there might be some difficulty in con- tracting for a band, so Wikoff was given the power to appoint his com- mittees and to provide for an effi- cient management of the dance. He ftnnounced that he would carry on negotiations with Bobby Byrne and Sonny Donovan. These negotiations have since proven futile. Discussion at the meeting indi- cated that the council was dissatis- fied with the supposedly weak sta- tus of the Interfraternity Council. It was promised that a committee will soon meet to study the consti- tution and by laws of the council m view of giving it more power and more responsibility to its mem- bership. Charles Stiles, '42, suggested that they abolish the bid system at fra- ternity dances following the Inter- fraternity Ball. Members agreed that all houses should have open house at this time and that all fra- ternity men and neutrals should •be welcome at all house dances. The council decided that in the future fraternities will save the expense and labor of sending ·bids and open their houses to all. To Study Group Buying The council agreed to study the group buying idea and asked repre- sentatives to discuss this with fra- ternity stewards. They were asked to cooperate by supplying a list of the staple foods they used. Delta Phi, Phi Sigma Delta and Theta Delta Chi were absent from the meeting. Representatives at the meeting included: W. Bruce May, Al.pha Delta Phi, Ralph S. Mata- razzo, Alpha Phi Delta, Don Brock- wehl, Beta Theta Pi, Fred Wikoff, Chi Psi, Milton Neubauer, Delta Chi, Kenneth Lasher, Delta Upsi- lony, Joseph Jaycox, Kappa Alpha, Lawrence Feldman, Kappa Nu, Howard Van Valcenburg, Kappa Sigma, Donald Abood, Phi Delta Theta, ·Cliff Bowdish, Phi Gamma Delta, Benjamin Leland, Phi Sigma Kappa, Charles Stiles, Psi Upsilon, William Coates, Sigma Chi, and William Kruesi, Sigma Phi. Richard Raymond was vice pres- tdent of the Student Council and a member of the basketball, soccer and tennis teams. Robtrt Ryan was a drummer, swimmer and bowler. Unidentified Thief Snatches Banners From Four Evening Raid Frederich Schaefer was of the athletic type. He played baseball, football and soccer. Max Slee was a varsity footballer. Louis Steege was president of his Freshman and Senior classes and of his debate club, also he was a member of the Executive Council of the Junior class, Edward Stefic was vice president of Student Council and managing editor of the yearbook. Alton H. Taylor was president of his Senior class, Student Council and Hi-Y. He was also a member of the National Honor Society. Colin Taylor was a player of baseball, basketball, and football. Then he also found time to be pres- ident of his Senior class in high school and prefect of his Junior class at Westminster. James Wheell\r was a glee club- her and a drummer. Ca~p~s . ~ra~er~ities in Saturday A stJll-umdentJfJed th1ef w1th a4>---- _______ ------~---- whimsical yen for fraternity flags stole the banners from the Psi Upsilon, Delta Upsilon, Phi Gamma Delta, and Beta Theta Pi houses Saturday night. Reports from the four fraternities indicate that the thefts were committed sometime between 9:15 and 11 p. m. In each instance the thief or thieves grabbed the flag, pulling the pole along with it. All four poles, in varying conditions, were found by the Phi Gamma Delta's near Alexander Field on Sunday. John Baas, '42, president of the Psi Upsilon house, reported that William Beck, '45, had left the house about 9:15 with a Slddmore party date. When he left, the flag was still flying proudly, the front door was open, and nearly a dozen men were inside the house. When Beck returned about 10 or 15 min- utes later, the flag was gone, and the pole broken off. \Incidentally Baas added, \if someone took the flags as a prank. we won't hold any grudge against him if he brings it back. As a mat- ter of fact, if we just found it on the doorstep some morning, we'd be perfectly willing to forget the whole thing\. Baas said the flag would cost about $20 to 1 eplace, but that the Psi U's would probably wait a while before buying a new one, in the hopes of recovering the old one. D. U.'s Absent Over at Delta Upsilon, the house was empty until 11 o'clock, when returning brothers found the flag gone. The D. U:'s estimated the cost of their .flag at about $12 and said that they would buy a new one. Wallace MacMillan, '43, of Phi Gamma Delta said that their flag had been taken between 9:30 and 10:00, when only one man was in the house. He did not realize that the flag was being taken. The Phi Gamma Delta banner was estimated to be worth about $12. Ralph Van Duzee, '45, was sitting in a car in front of the Beta Theta Pi house a:bout 10 o'clock when he hear-d a sharp report that made him look towards the house. He saw a dim figure jump off the porch and run to a car on Union Avenue. He saw the car disappear towards Lenox Road, but was un- able to determine the license plate number. Andrew Reilly, '42, said that the Beta flag would cost $20 to replace. None of the fraternities reported the thefts to the police or to the college authorities immediately. The Psi U's said they knew one or two clews, but would wait until the tips had been tracked down before .pub- licizing them. !------------~-- ·--!, Interfraternity Council Finds $30 in Local Bank One of the first and most int·er- esting of the problems that will face the new Interfra·ternity Council is the question of what to do about the sum of 30 do!Iars and some odd cents, which ,it was discovered last week, is in a long- forgotten Council account in a Schenectady bank. It seems that a number of years ago there was that amount left in the Council's account at the end of the school year. The trea~urer graduated and, quite ·by accident, the bank book got mix- ed up in his luggage. The fol- lowing year the account was ~or­ gotten, and has remained an unknown asset until just recently, when the ex-treasurer was mov- ing. He ran across the ba.nk book among his belongings and forwarded it to Co-ordinat0r Wil- liam W. Bennett. W·hat makes this pleasant sut'- prise something of a problem is the fact that at about the same time as the bankboolc made its unheralded disappearance, the Interfraternity Council turned its funds over to the Student Tax Committee, as had all other col- lege activities. Legally minded students may now debate the fine point of who is the rightful owner of the money, and who should decide its disposition . The bank reported last week that a student authorized as treasurer of the council could withdraw the money. Council HeadsAsk Able Membership Request Fraternities To Elect Worthy Men Leaders of the 1941-42 Interfra- ternity Council are agreed on the necessity of hard-working, interest- ed delegates for the council's suc- cess, according to statements on the position of the council made to The Concordiensis yesterday. Frederic Wikoff, '43, William Coates, '42, and Benjamin Leland, '42, all emphasized that the council this year should be more important than ever before, and that frater- nities whose representatives are lax will be missing their share of influence in active campus work. Wikoff, in his statement, said, \Right now we're much too busy working on the dance to think about anything else. It's pretty late to be getting started on the dance, and we've got to do our best tb pull something out of the fire. PrPdi<'ts 'Big Things' \However before long, we hope to have the council doing big things. I think it can serve an im- portant place on the campus. \We're especially anxious to get good men on the council, men who are really interested. I hope that the fraternities will end their habit of appointing anyone who happens to be around to go to the meetings and will name men who have the ability and the interest to worlc hard on the council. Coates, the newly elected vice- president, expressed himself a.'S be-· ing in favor of having a carry-over of members on the council. After consideration of several suggestions on this topic, he said that he thought elections in May of each year would probably solve that problem best. \I think the council should get more respect from within the fra- ternities than it has. The council will have to be developed to an im- portant position on the campus; it can no longer be pushed into the background,\ Coates said. Treasurer Leland favored May elections, and gave a very empha- tic \Yes\ to a question as to. whether the council importance on the campus should be enhanced. \It will be to the fraternities' ad- vantage to have good representa- tives on this council,\ he said. \This is o:qe council that is not going to lie down and play dead. Wikoff Appoints Ball Committee; $5 Levy To Defray Immediate Expenses Is Approved Plans for this year's Interfrater- r.ily Ball had their official begin- ning yesterday as Freder·ic Wikoff, '·13, newly-elected president of the Interfraternity Council, made known his choice of assistants to serve on the Ball executive com- nlittee. In order to facilitate prep- ax a:tions for the event, Wikoff had ceen empowered by the Council to name his own committee. W. Bruce May, '43, Alpha Delta Phi, was appointed chairman of the dance decorations. Benjamin T. Le- land, '43, Phi Sigma Kappa, wa£ r.amed to handle the finances of ·the affair. Leland is treasurer of the council. Charles Stiles, '42, Psi Upsilon, is in charge of publicity, John Poole, '42, Sigma Phi, will take care of the booths, and Ray- mond Aldrich, '42, Kappa Alpha, is chairman of the arrangements. Wikoff's appointments were an- nounced last night at the second meeting of the newly-formed coun- cil, after an organizational meeting of the committee ·had been held at 1 p. m. yesterday. Members To Be Taxed The council took its first move toward establishing itself firmly on the campus at this second meet- ing when it provided for a levy of 5 dollars to be made against each member fraternity in order to de- fJ·ay immediate operating expenses This money will eventually be allot- ted toward the individual houses' booth fee of 15 dollars. Wikoff reported that although he i\' keeping in constant touch with bookers in New York it is still dif- fiCult to obtain commitments on a name band for the Interfraternity Ball. Only thirteen fraternities were 1 epresented. Expressing concern ever the absences, Wikoff urged that all fraternities see that their delegates are .present at the next meeting, which is scheduled for next Monday evening. The meeting will be held in Dr. Johnson's class- room in Washburn Hall at 7:30. The fraternities not represented at last night's meeting were Alpha Delta Phi, pelta Chi, Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Nu, and Phi Delta Theta. Mountebanks Schedule 'The Clutching Hand' \The Clutching Hand,\ one of the most famous of the old-time motion picture serials, will be presented ill eight episodes during the course of the Mountebanks' motion pic- ture series this year, Gordon Rust, faculty advisei·, announced yester- day. With the final confirmation of the presentation of this picture, the schedules for the series, which -begins Janu~J.ry 12, were completed. This is the first time since the in- ception of these Mountebanks mo- tion picture programs that the schedule has been completed so early in the year, Mr. Rust said. At the same time, Mr. Rust an- nounced complete plans of the sub- scription campaign, which began yesterday. He said that this cam- paign will be much more intensive than has been customary, and that the organization is hopeful of much more .satisfactory results. Subscription campaig.J;l folders, outlining the entire Mountebanks schedule for the year, have ·been sent to a list comprising faculty wives, former patrons, members of the Schenectady Junior League, and members of the American As- sociation of University Women. As a further means of promotion, the organization has secured the services of a group of volunteers to conduct a telephone campaign among those who receive the fold- ers. The group includes Mrs. Charles N. Waldron, Mrs. Benja- min Whitaker, Mrs. Walter Lang- sam, Mrs. Frederic Wyatt, Mrs. Ar- thut· Kimball, Miss Miriam John- son and Miss Lillian Applegarth.

ilye (!tnurnrilitusts TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1941 ::\Iember of the Associated Colleg-iate Press atal <.ii.:>- tnlmtor of the Collegiate Digt>st H.epresent~li fur XuCvt • ..\1 .\Jnr:isi::g by X atiunal Advertising SHY· ice. !He·., Collt>ge Publi~h· ffinnrur o iruaiE l~ditorial Oftlre, Silliman Hall. l:nion College, Pub- lication Office. The Ga- l<;tte l'reoo, 3H State St. I·~t.tErecl in the Sc.henec- tudy 1Jo:-5t Uftiee as ::5ec- ond Clas$ :\Jail ~latter. :-3Uh'\'L'rtPt'iun ill' u copy; $3 y~r; Uelivcrtd uny\vh~t·c 111 the United .States. er~ Hepre.:)elltativt, 4:!l 1 ~ladislliJ A\\ellUt::. ~e\\ \\VII\. L'tt~. A nnuntl Y. l't•lgculmum. J u'llu l't•r·J,tt iu Sulnmuu llh•drmau .... . .1 uuatlmn l'eur•un . . .... . Samu\l l'otiiiUJ ......... . \ I Causa Pl'rsa farolr -lssai\ St>ulur Hoani .... h .• t.(JlJ..L ~u Hou~t: 4-7:.:31 . . !{:tJ>i'\ ::-:=u Hou~.-- 4-7331 l~ .\llttdit· :--:t·dtcJ!t, ~lltt/. l't Htgt • •...•. ~q.;:lll.t l'bi l'l.tct: !-U~:.!l KapJ'a :\u !l•'U.><\~ 4·7331 ....... Etlltor-ln·Cllil•f . . . Uu,iness :\I!UU\{(1'1' ............. .)lunatg·ing Editur . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . :O.pul't• Editul' . . . . . . . . . . . . As&oelatc Editor J uniut· Hunl~tl-1\olwtl Ilaytlt.·I. ·r·huma:- U't ~ullHOr. Har- vev F\i~lllJIIllt- Jad: ~l'hult~. lir~u~g~r Tt i{Jll. :-\urntall F~x. ~tat\f l'h,utugrapttt .. ·l Suphumort• Ilunrtl ~Tiwmas L'ul!t>ll, \\\Illtam Hart. AI· t.Jt>rt l{roiitl'k, ELl\\Utd jtJilll~U!I, ~e)'lill•UI\ Thtdouan. Hu~illl'-' Stuff- ~le!\'il!P ~le\\enger, lland ltosenblum. f\.lan·ill L\l anlt•r. THE COUNCIL HAS MET I\'\'lll 1 Edlttn· .... . (:r\nngt•r Trl]I!J ~\ Tuesday, Octeber 7, 1941 dance with insufficient time for preparation and of developing an effective interfratern- ity group from what is now scarcely the shell of one. EDITORIAL The Concordy Goes to Bed Going· from rig.ht to left for a change, \~rt\ set up the type, Franil; puts it .in pla~e, and \I:r.zy\ runs it off the pre-ss. 2 Concordy Pays T rihute to :Men 'Behind the Scenes' In Description of Technical Side of P a perfs life P repared copy takes from there i. insertion of strips ef lead here and When the final curtain faHs on By ROBERT HAYNER Three good men have been named to lead the Interfraternity Council: Wikoff, Coates, and Leland. UnioB fratemities now have the interested and potentially effective commuu- ity leadership of men who have, fm· some time, given a gTeat deal of attention to fra- ternal and inter-fratemal problems here. leads directly to the offices of the ' there between lines of type. Here a Broadway stage extravaganza of s · · today, the audience, i·f it has liked Gazette Press, on State treet, 1 are any glaring rniscalculatwns m It is fortunate the Council leadership is good, for there is much that a capable Inter- fmternity Council could do this year that would be of benefit to the college, both in re- spect to fraternity management and campus good fellowship. The benefit that could be gained is clearly illustrated by an example of one of the first actions taken by the Council upon organiza- tion: it went on record as favoring- Interfrn- ternity and Prom house dances open to the campus, as opposed to the present \bid sys- tem.\ In one action of one evening, the rep- resentatives on the Council were able to bl'ing back for the consideration of their groups the concrete resolution of a proposal that has been labelled for many years as one of the best means for improving fellowship here, but which never prog1·essed beyond the \good idea\ stage. There are many mo1·e of these \good ideas\ which could be put into p1·actice by an effective Interfraternity Council. It could easily appoint a standing committee to gath- er the p1·ices paid for commodities by the seve1·al fl'aternities and to have these prices included on a mimeog1·aphed list distributed to fratemity stewal'ds weekly or bi-weekly. Situations such as that brought out in this paper last Tuesday, in which Sigma Phi pays 43-45 cents per dozen of eg-gs, while Phi Sig-ma Kappa pays 50 cents, would at least be brought to the attention of the groups concerned. A system like this could provide one of the bases for a scheme of community cooper- ation, should one of community buying be found impractical. Empowering ~Good Ideas' The Interfraternity Council could also be a clearing house for f1·aternity management plans developed both on this campus and on the national and international scene. It could exchange meal menus and successful econ- omy measures that certain houses had put into effect. It could be an organ through which interfraternity exchange dinners might be arranged. These are all ideas, gene1·ally termed \good\ by the campus, which a functioning Interfraternity Council could put into effect. The organization has a long road to travel before it can successfully effect these meas- ures, however. To make the Council better g·eared for these problems facing it, members are con- sidering· many changes: means for making effective the completely ineffective func- tional and constitutional machinery of the organization, \things to do,\ insurance that the Council does not dissolve after sponsor- ing a successful Interfraternity Ball. As was made clear by President Wikoff in a statement to this paper, the Council can do none of these things without an interested, capable membership. As he pointed out, it is the responsibility of each f1·aternity to send as its representative a man who comes f()r a better purpose than merely answering \present\ when the roll is called. Our congratulations upon their election to Wikoff, Coates, and Leland. May they suc- ceed in their difficult job of sponsoring a NEUTRALS STILL HAVE TO SHOW US It is good to know that a gmup of neutrals have seen fit to write a letter to this paper in connection with its editorial comment of Fridar on non-fraternity men. If nothing more, the letter, which is printed on this page, indicates that a certain numbe1· of men without fraternity affiliation are able to think of themselves sufficiently as a group so as to resent any disparagement of the ac- tions of their group. The letter, unfortunately, shows little con- structive merit. It is, in itself, a further in- dictment of the very attitude against which we editorialized Friday: namely, neutral com- plaint against alleged injustices and requests for extra-neutral support, with no accom- panying action by the neutrals themselves. The writers may easily complain about the \grudg·ing use of college properties for booths at Prom or small dances of their own.\ They may complain about the fact that Hale House is a ''stopping over place for dignitaries,\ or that Silliman Hall is \too cold and too cluttered with meetings\. It is neither hard nor particularly useful to complain; one is effective only when he attacks in constructive thought or action the object of complaint. If booths at Prom are given \grudgingly;\ if small dances are hampered b;y lack of physical facility, then let nan-fraternity men make sure that the physical facility will be available. In their letter, the four neutrals have writ- ten both an indictment of the current atti- tude of non-fraternity men and a credo for their successful action: Their indictment is their complaint over the lack of opportunity for, or injustice to 40~ of the college-which group is far larger than any analogous group on the cam- pus. Since it is so much larger, it should cer- tainly be capable of making sure, on its own, that it does get opportunity, and that it does get justice. Their credo is contained in two phrases of their letter. One relates that \neutrals can- not be asked or expected to organize until some unifying force is held before them other than a . seemingly unaccomplishable ideal.\ The other states that \it is for a few neutral leaders to provide that force (of ef- fective organization).\ The two phrases set a keynote that might well be the theme of neutral activity here that would, after a time, obviate any need for further complaint. A few neutral leaders might well lead a move toward a constructive goal, like a room to be used exclusively by non-fraternity men as their game and loung- ing room. Investigation of such spots as the basement of Silliman Hall and the old Com· mons behind the Butterfield Chemistry Lab would certainly be an effective beginning for such action. We do not think that it is the duty of The Concordiensis to hold back from criticism of a group that seems uninterested in most projects that would benefit it. We repeat that, to expect support from extra-neutral organizations, non-fraternity men must dem~ onstrate to the campus that they are suffi- ciently interested in measures concerning them to .support the measures themselves. the productit:m, customarily calls where the worlt of the unseen men 1 make-up construction rem!'died. the cast back time and again in in the picture ,begins. i Over all this, Chesky rules almost that peculiar ritual lmewn to the First in chronological order, , supreme, for work-w01 n Junior come the linotypers, those whose 1 Board members have found that theatre as the \curtain call.\ This is the actor's glory, and so it sheuld nimble fingers wander over the I almost without exceptien, a laissez- be. All his talents, all the weeks keys of their machines with the 1 faire policy with regard te Frank deftness and skill of a concert and the make-up problems is the of laborious rehearsal, all his heed- pianist, pounding out endless best course to follow. ing of expert direction have been incorporated in his performance. \tr~ys\ of lead, to ~e shipped up-~ After the type has been arranged How about the others, though? The starrs to the composing room. and tightened in the galley frame, men behind the scenes, the tech- There are three of the many , it is sent on to pre;,s-man Isador nical men, electricians, property linotypers at the Gazette Press Schwartz who sets the actual men, sound effects men, even the ;\hose Tuesday ~nd Friday work presses 1:olling. Thus the work is stagehands. They are the forgotten mcludes the settmg of Concordy almost done. There remains only men of the theatre. They are the copy. Frank Cor.ey, and Frank the folding machine, into which the unsung heroes ef the stagf', with- Every set the mam body. of type papers are fed by the only feminine out whom the success would have and also make any correctiOns nee- hands to touch them in the whole been impossible. essary !for even linotypers make process, those of a young lady Behind the Concordy Scenes errors now and then). Art Klepper known to the Concordy staff by the sets most of the headlines which , rather abstiaci. cognomen of Yet these figmes in the shadows can be set on the linotype machines~ \Betty.\ !Her full name is Betty outside the thespian limelight are there. These three hard worlting Casey.) not alone in the professional world, men produce the large part of the by any means. There have always reading material in the paper. This · been these indispensible men be- work comes to about seventy or 'Asll Harlow' hind the scenes in every line of eighty column inches of type on Supervising this staff at the work. Consider, for instance, the the day before the issue comes out. press is genial. experienced, sage, newspaper. The rest is set in the morning Harlow Delaney, \boss\ of the Ga- \The Concordiensis\ being the of the issue day. zette's job-printing department, most convenient and most perti· ably assisted in secretarial duties nent newspaper to the Union Cam- 'Taltf' Tllis Up to Franlt' I by his wife. His advice is invalu- pus, it might prove interesting to Once the type has entered the able, his patience unending. look behind the scenes on the tech- door of the composing room, it be- So the paper's assembly is com- nical side of the Concordy produc- cernes the precious property of ef- plete. The campus reads its news, tion line, which turns out a paper ficient, humorously sardonic, indus- gives credit and criticism to those twice a week, week in and week trious Frank Chesky, composeur whose names appear on the paper's out throughout the college year. sans ega!, who, with the assistance masthead, gives little or no thought It has been considered advisable of a Junior Board member of the to those who have, like men back- t<? ol:llit any desc:iption of the be- editorial staff and with young stage, utilized their talents and ~mnmgs of a typiCal Concordy, for I Dick Thelen hovering about, sets , their experience to turn out the 1t would concern only the editorial tte type in place on the \stone\, a I best product they know how. To staff .. who ge.t their twice-weekly , table used exclusively for the pur-~' them this article is dedicated, as curta1~ call m the masthead of · pose. Here is the climax of the pa- it is dedicated to all those, what- every Issue. Let us assume, there- · per production reached, for here ever or wherever their position fore, ~hat their work in Silliman i a.re stories \chopped\, cut down to I who, without thought of publicity Hall IS don7 for. the week. The . ftt the space allotted to them, I or gain, have a job to do and do tortuous trail which the campus- \leaded out\ lengthened out by the 1 it-well. I S P E A K I N G I ~~a:.h:di~~i 1 ----· I Neutral \collective actions in the duce has not yet been determined. past have certainly shown their Their environment, moisture being ll;t'OUP deserving of very little sup- the main factor, determines this. port\ according to an editm·ial en- There is only one kind of male. titled \The Neutrals Have to Show SCIENTIFICALlY By ANDREW L. COMREY Dr. Allan C. Scott, of the Biology Department, has been conducting t·e~earch upon what might be term- ed \a very complicated bug.\ This animal, whose length is one tenth of an inch, is an American beetle which has some peculiar habits of reproduction. The beetle is impor- tant, economically, for it thrives upon moist, rotten wood. Before their impregnation with creosote, railroad ties were often damaged by these beetles. \An ordinary insect,\ explained Dr. Scott, \has three stages of re- production: egg, larval, and adult with reproduction occurring in the third stage. However, the Micro- malthus debilis !meaning small, ex- cessively reproductive, and weak) reproduces in the larval stage, for the most part. At least, if the adult beetle is capable of reproducing, it has not manifested its ability to do so, for even under the most favor- able conditions, it fails to bring forth results. I suspect that it needs .some special kind of food.\ One might ask, \If the adults cannot reproduce, why have any adults at all?\ Actually, it seems that they need not exist, as the fol- lowing illustration will prove. \Somehow said Dr. Scott, \some of these beetle larvae were shipped to South Africa in a log and were lodged deep in the ground. Later, they were discovered as a thriving colony of larvae without any male adults. The female adults alone were pt esent. I suspect, however, that the adults are necessary and that they do reproduce, for the lar- vae have slight ability to move any distance while the specie is spread- ing all over the eastern seaboard . The adults have mobility but of course would not be able to spread the specie if they did not have the power of reproduction. \Most animals are divided into two sexes, male and female, but this beetle has three different vari- eties of female. They are: the 'fe- male producing' female, the 'male producing' female and the female which grows to adulthood. At the time the females are born. the kind of offspring which they are to pro- however. Us\ in last Friday's Concordiensis. . \The . 'female producing' female This summary of pessimistic gtves btrth to 15 to 40 young ones, views exptessed in the editorial may while the 'male producing' female I bt> questioned on several grounds. develops fro~ 1 to 5, but gives birth 1 First, when have there been \col- only to one. 1 1 1 · 1 - \ h f Th t\ f th' 1 ff . c c tve ac tons on t e part o neu- e ac wns o IS so e o spnng · t \a! ? c 11 t' t · t b of the \male producing' female are , s. ? ec tve ac I_on :an no .e most Unbe . . 11 t::.ken Without organizatiOn. And IS commg, as you WI see. th · t' \It seem .. · d D S tt \th t . ere any Inc en 1ve or encourage- as t ht's als, . sbat. rb. co.t •b . a ment for neutral organization? m e IS emg orn, t egtns . . . eating up its unborn brothers and Perhaps m obJects to be attamed, finally devours its mother as well. the.re is. But what community ever An interesting phenomenon is ob- stnves as a whole to future ideals. served if this greedy male is re- Only a few leaders think of the fu- moved before it has had a chance tme. Union's neutlal leaders have, to eat. No other male is born. but , ft om tin!e to time. They have ac- in about a month, the mother gives •·ompli~hed small objectives such birth to a ·brood of females! No ao; settmg up a Hale House com- reason for this 'reversal of sex pro- mittee or influencing the choice of duction' is apparent as yet. on the reading matter, particularly news- other hand, if the male is allowed papers, in Hale House and the Li- to follow its natural course, it de- brary. velops to adulthood.\ But in larger projects they have As a graduate student, Dr. Scott run against seemingly impassible studied and wrote his doctor's barriers. It is only grudgingly that thesis upon the cell structure of they are given use of college phy- this beetle. Since then, he has ·be- .,;ical properties for booths at Prom come interested in the evolutionary or small dances of their own. They factors which have caused the can not themselves sponsor small strange reproductive behavior of dances and social activities because this beetle. Although H. S. Bather they lack support of the other mem- laid the ground work for this field bers of the neutral body. And they by describing larval reproduction lack that support because the neu- in this form, Dr. Scott has carried t1al organization has nothing to of- the research into the internal otruc- fer. Hale House is commonly known ture .. and \reversal of sex produc-l as a stopping-over place· for visit- tion. ing dignitarieo;. Silliman Hall is CALENDAR To1norrow 10:00 a. m. - Daily Speaker, Charles F. Memorial ChapeL 3;30-5:30 p. m.-Glee hearsal, Hanna Hall Thursday too cold and too cluttered up with meetings to provide a real neutral center. Day stu.dents have no com- Assembly, fortable atmosphere to encourage Clowe, . 42 . their staying on campus. They haven't even a place where they Club Re- can undo their brown sacks and oat their lunches without the psy- chological feeling that they're 10:00 a. m. - Daily Assembly, Speaker, Professor F. L. Bron- ner, Memorial Chapel. breaking some sanctity. Neutrals can not be asked or ex- pected to organize until some unify- ing force is held before them oth- er than a seemingly unaccomplish- able ideal. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Re- cital, Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Mem- orial Chapel. Consequently, it is for a few neu- <Continued on Page 4) I I I I I I I I < ... F WI su g2 in th 13 0' tr a bt b2 in fo a gl th Ui co th WI cr se bt 0' of ht ot ta te pl Iii to sc pc th itl in w fa cc b~ gc to in ca tv a I ri~ h~ fa a~ Tl or fo A: G fa st 0 D tit b< Y< in tt' te g< ht G T l'i w fc sc lo to w st et A tl: ec C'l g! ..::

' I I I I I I I I. and in died. that ssez- rank the I nged is only the inine lady the of the sage, Ga- valu- com- those back- and the To d, as do I I n the I their sup- I a! en- I Show mistic may \col- f neu- be is l ) I I ever ' ideals. I he fu- I have, ac- I such com- of news- he Li- have y that phy- Prom . They small ecause mem- they neu- to of- visit- is p with com- ourage They they and psy- they're or ex- unify- w neu- 3 SPORTS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1941 ~~~ 0Intttlttbtttt!1t!1 Dutchmen Blow Chances And lose To Hobart 13-0 Stopped Three Times W:ithin ® Five Y a!rds ·Of Touchdowns Sherman Has Narrow Escape in Tight Situation Vermont Beats Union Harriers In Dehut 15-40 Monday morning quarterback~ ' -- were pretty busy yesterday on the o;ubject of Saturday's Union-Hobart game and the three golden scor- Saturday's Statistics ing opportunit.ies the Union learn threw away before bowing out, 13-0. Fly in the oinment was Jack O'Shea, big Hobart fullback, who traipsed through the line for a net gain of 183 yards during a busy afternoon. He scored one Ho- bart touchdown on a 26-yard run in the fourth quarter after passing fout· yards to Bob Burns, end, for a first-period score. Union was outgained on tht ground by 104 yards, Hobart ran the baH for a net gain of 227 yards. Union made 123. But Union ac- cumulated 12 first downs to 11 for the orange and blue clad visitors. Hobart First downs ...... , . . . . 12 Y ai•ds gained rushing .133 Passes attempted. . . . . 25 Passes completed. . . . . 6 PassE's interceptE>d by ... 1 Yards gained. . . . . . . . . 97 Number of punts..... 9 Average distance of punts from smrimmage ....... 27.3 Rtmback of punts, kickoffs ............ 1:52 Penalties, yards . . . . . 30 Union 11 227 8 2 1 19 8 35.5 19 35 Conly, Snell Tie For Eighth Place In Dismal Race Finishing seven men before Dick Conly and Charley Snell finally showed up as Union's fit·st runners, the University 0f Vermont cross- country team beat the Garnet var- sity for the fourth year in a row, the second by a perfect score. By tying for· eighth, Conly and Snell emulated exactly the .per- ! formance of last year's team. Snell 1 tied for eighth with Don Collins last year. It didn't take Hobart long to find Union's wea·knPss. Before the game was three minutes old, O'Shea was cracking at the tackles. The first series of tries didn't a vail much, but when Hobart got the ball again O'Shea immediately went 17 yards off right tackle. Two plays later h~ was off around left end for an- other 18 yards. Then he hit right tackle for seven yards on one at- tempt and three on another to place the ball on Union's four-yard line. On the next play he passed to Burns in the end zone for the score. Dick Morris placekicked the point. Betas and D.U.'s Score Easy Wins In Grid Loop Both Elevens Start Gunning for Meeting For League Pennant Shown above is one reason why Union didn't ·beat Hobart Saturday. Lee Sherman., punting from deep in his own end zone, has a close call as two Hobart gridders crash through the sieve-like Union defense to harry his kick. The ball is shown on the climb, having just cleared the outstretched· fingers of the Statesmen. This particular boot made on the second play of the second quarter, traveled 37 yards. I Coach Bill Ketz was slightly peeved at his runners when inter- v.ewed last night. \They're a great team on Monday but bums on Sat- urday,\ he declared. He explained that it was the early pace which killed most of his men off in the Vermont meet. Vigliemo Praised In the second quarter Union took the play entirely away from the vis- itors to move down to within strik- ing distance of the goal three times within five minutes. Beta Theta Pi and Delta Upsilon, who ·are definitely gunning for each other, both scored easy vic- tories yesterday. They'll meet next Friday in a game which should decide first place in League A in the intramural touch football tour- McKeever Wants Date After Winning Prize In Concordy Contest nament. Franklin McKeever is looking fot· I $20. Don't rush, fellows. Entries I must be in Concordy mailbax in Silliman hall by 10 a. rn. Saturday. I And here are the stumbling blocks: Princeton Columbia ..... . Syracuse ..... . Holy Cross ... . Dartmoutlt Colgate ...... . Coast Guard .. Clemson ..... . Ensticl? Provides Drive Delta Upsilon rolled to a 16-0 a date for Saturday night. He has victory over Sigma Phi. The Sigs two free tickets to Proctor's, hav- held their opponents powerless ing won the second weekly Con- throughout a great portion of the cordy football contest. game, but couldn't get any sort of McKeever tripped up on two con-! attack clicking to balance their de- tests. He failed to call Ohio State's fense. \Bullet Bob\ Hayner and 33-0 triumph over Southern CaJi- Johnny Clowe scored D. U.'s touch-. fornia and the 21-0 walloping Ham- downs on passes. The winners also :Iton handed R. P. I. R. P. I ........ Bos_ Col. Harvard Vermont Cornell ....... . Eddie Enstice was the main factor in this drive, but even· he couldn't take the whole Union team by the hand and lead it across the goal line into the promised land. \Stice\ unloaded two long passes to Ken Sharpe and Walt Galuszka in the first of these drives. They carried for 18 and 23 yards. In be- tween \Stice\ clicked off 14 yards around left end. This flurry car- ried down to Hobart's four and a half yard line before three passes failed to click. O'Shea punted out. Back came the Dutchmen, but again they forgot the combination . This time they were halted on the one-yard line as .Sherman was held for no gain on a crack at center. Again O'Shea punted out. Back down the field came the Garnet attack. This time it got as far as the six-yard stripe before stalling as the half ended. Sherman's fine runbacks on O'Shea's desperate punts kept the Dutchmen in a threatening posi- tion during all this period. He came back with romps of 16, 12, and 20 yards. Second P£>riod The teams put up an even scrap in the third period and play cen- t\'red between the 20-yard lines. Halfway through the fourth quar- te:r Sherman broke off left end and got to Hobart's 40-yard line, where he attempted a lateral to Walt Galuszlta as he was being tackled. The ball went wild and Dick Mor- ris recovered for Hobart on his ~3. O'Shea took over from here and was down and across the goal line for the final score in six plays. He scored on a slice off left taclcle, loping 26 yards without being touched. The atempt at conversion was low. It was a little late, but Union started a threatening drive just aft- er this second Hobart touchdown. Again it was Enstice who directed the proceedings. The Dutch parad- ed to four .first downs and were 0n Hobart's 35-yard line when the game ended. scored a safety. Two other entrants picked the The Betas trounced the Delta same number of games correctly, Phis, 13-0 in the other top-flight but failed to call the scores. In game. Sigma Chi rose up to smoth- case of tie, the result must be de- e!' Alpha ,Delta Phi, 19-0, in the tE>rmined by the entry which picks third contest. the scores most closely. The lads Kappa Sigma rounded out the who just missed out are Bob Beale day's activity by taking a forfeit and Charlie Keeler. from South College. Last week Jackpot offered $10 to the lad who could pick every score S<JHEDULE FOR WEEK on the nose. Needless to say, no- Tomorrow-South College vs. AI- body did. So this week magnani- ., pha Phi Delta, south end, Library mous Jackpot jacks the prize up to f1eld; Delta Phi vs. Delta Chi, south end, Council field; Phi Sig- ma Kappa vs. Kappa Alpha, north end, Council field. Thursday-Seniors vs. Freshmen, south end, Library field; Juniors vs. Sophomores, north end, Library field. Friday-North College vs. Kappa Sigma, south end, Library field; Delta Chi vs. Neutrals, north end, Library field; Phi Sigma Delta vs. Alpha Delta Phi, south end, Coun- cil field; Delta Upsilon vs. Beta Theta Pi, north end, Council field. 0 Handball Court Rules 1. Time Sheets are posted in handball court room. the 2. Playing periods for both singles and doubles will be limited to one- half hour. If the following period is not en- gaged, play may continue. 3. Players may sign up ONE day in advance for ONE period ONLY. 4. TURN OFF LIGHTS WHEN FINISHED PLAYING. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut Ciampa Leads Way To Coaches' Dismay The experts went out on a limb last week, and several of them more or less fell off. Hal Wittner and Columbia AI Ciampa each picked seven winners in ten games to win the second weekly poll of the athletic department. Bill Ketz was close behind the winners picking six games correct- ly. The best Art Lawrence was able to dope out was six losers. The record now shows that Hal, Bill, and \Champ\ are tied for first place with 15 winners in 21 games. Art Lawrence trails with 12 cor- rect prognostications. \Champ'' was the only one to pick the Hamilton-R. P. I., Ohio State-U. S. C., and Washington State-California games correctly, but he fell down when he selected S. M. U. over Fordham, Williams over Princeton, and Virginia over Yale. Interested in Schet!ectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Anything you need? Call Watch and Jeweil·y RepairiTI(J a Specialty GUERRA•s PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 ~--------------------~-------------------~------- • • PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Colby ........ . Indiana . . . . . . . Tex. Chris. . .. Mich. State . . . Marquette ... . Hamilton . . . . . Hobart ...... . lllinois ....... . Fordham .... . N'western Pennsylvania .. So. CaL ....... Minnesota ... . N. Carolina .. . Wisconsin .... . Yale ......... . Oregon Name -···· ..................... . Address ..................... _ .. . I would likr my $20 in gold ) ; silver ( ). Intramural Track Meet Tomorrow afternoon the annual intramural fall track meet starts at 4:30 o'clock on Alexander field. A second section of the event will be run off Thursday. Each team must enter at least six men to gain entrance points. Holders of \aUa\ and Block \U\ awards in varsity track and cross- country and members of the cur- rent cross-country teams are barred from competition. Four events are on the docket for tomorrow. They are the 50-yard dash, 120-yard low hurdles, 220-yard dash and 440-yard relay. Thursday's events will be the 100- yard dash, shotput, 440-yard dash and 880-yard relay_ Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD- :RoLLS- PASTRY PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady I ICE CREAM One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. $7.35 Delivered- Simply Phone 6-J248 GAFFERS • • l ' I ! Bellevue Dairy ! _____________________________________________ ___ COAL • COKE - FUEL OIL Call 4-3354 $ $ ,J il (~ ){ 1• f) 'r $ $ ~==lly ,J,\('1\ I'EAit:-10:'\ __ :;:;;_t Chalk up one for the band. It v:as hot Saturday. Maybe it's just that we're comparing it with un- impressive bands of other years, but it seems that the present unit is an enthusiastic, hard-working one which should be a great credit to the school if it continues the long pull upward. One day last week the \Hamil- ton Life\ came out with the modest prediction that Hamilton would win five of its seven games this fall. It conceded that the Continentals would proba•bly drop the R_ P. I. and Rochester games. Then they went out and walloped R. P. I., 21-0, in their opener Saturday to make things look really rosy. \Wait'II they get at Union,\ one R. P. I. fan was heard to say at the game ! according to our inform- ant.) \They'll tear 'em apart.\- Quite possible, we say, but before that Union will have dispCised of R. P. I. in fine fashion ... that's our prediction. * * * Adv.-Ed Enstice and Sol Blech- man are still looking for that foot- ball. * * * Both Union and Middlebury go into Saturday's game with the doubtful distinction of not having scored a point in two games to date. Scoreless tie? For De Luxe Coaches CALL G~ A. WELCOME &SON 1711 Union St. PHONE 4-9444 Jules Vigliemo, a sophomore, came in for plenty of praise from Ketz for his performance in finish- ing right behind Conly and Snell. He led during the early stages of the race. Conly, on the other hand, ran a disappointing race. At one time he was in 16th place. Only 38 Reconds separated the first and last \Cnion runners. Saturday the varsity expects to notch up a victory over Middlebury and bring its record up to the .500 mark. The Middies have been tak- en over the bumps three years run- ning. The Vermont-Union summary: C. Webster, <Vl, first; 22:17; Hoyt, <V), second, 22:19; C. Web- ster and Stotbred, <V), tied for third, 22:49; McLaren, <Vl, fifth, 23:13; Smith, <Vl, sixth, 23:36; Bur- r;ess, <Vl, seventh, 23:40; Conly and Snell, <U>, tied for eighth, 24:22; Vigliemo, (U), tenth, 24:44; Shep- herd, <Ul, eleventh, 24:54; Reed, <Ul, twelfth, 25; and Adams, (U), thirteenth, 24:55. Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values CLEANERS AND TAILORS UNITED SHOE REBUILDERS Ph. 4-5676 114 State St. ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll,l: = = = = - - - - ~ Schenectady Engraving Co. ~ = = 5 = :: Engravers for The Concordiensis : - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ 147 Jay St. Phone 4N9002 ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll F.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1941 GENERAL 4 Fresh~nen Tempt Fate, Seek Dates Hopefully A~t .Fi-rst Skidmore Party; Wyatt, Brockhurst Prove Life of Affair As Ni:ckel,odeon Breaks Down Troy Colleges to Feature Varied Inter...American Week Celebration ---------· ~----· Again President Roosevelt's • brainchild, Inter-American Week, <Jrous Latin visitors and asso1ted is having one of its widely cele- friendly relation pr0g1 ams will be brated birthdays throughout Amer• daily a.ttractions of the program. ica to call national attention to this Admission is free to these broad- mutual expression of a dynamic casts as weH as to all events 0n the By GEORGE MIDDLEMISS, '45 • A gala afternoon started at 1:30 I Saturday when fi·fty Skidmore freshmen arrived at the first of the . 'mnuAl TTnion-8kiclmot'f' frf'Rhman I p&rties and met their escorts, sixty I strong, at President Fox's house. FAt·!' <mrl ln<'k WPrP thP dPf'iclin!! f&.ctors in this introduction as the I hopeful freshmen paired off for the football game, where they ex- t~nded their wholehearted support 1 t\ the cheer leaders and the fight- ing Dutchmen. I good neighbor puJ.icy. The festiv- Inter·-.Amelican vrugram. Hies are to include wholesale Celebr·ation o·f the wee!' by Union speechmaking at R. P. I. and Rus- men will consist largely of pilgrim- sen ;:>age, radio proguun designed· ages to the ttlisseH ::;age carn·pus, for capitol district listeners, and a supplemented perhaps by a visit to speaking program to be led by Mrs. R. P. r. Here t·here will be speech- Franklin D. Roosevelt. The fol:Jow- making on an appreciation of the ing summary of the events ta be benefits which accrue from the presented in Troy is indicative of yearly interchange of customs re- the pains to which American cities suiting from the \See the Americas habituwlly go to foster mutual re- first\ sl0gan which the present war spect and cooperation in the Amer- in Europe has furthered. icas. As the recent Mexican trip of Dr. After a tour of the campus, the party centered around Hale House where partners were shuffled for ainner via the numbevs racket. Later partners were again switched at an informal dance in Hanna Hall. There the freshmen conga-ed and cut to the tunes of a nickelo- deon which provided some excite- ment ·by br·eaking down. 1. \A gala af.tPrnoon startt>d ... when fifty Skidu1.ore treslmwn arrived\ 2. \A fellow met his On Wednesday, Oct. 8, in Sage Sttlbing, instructar of Spanish and Park, the·re wiU be a twenty-one German, showed, the Latins are a flag salute to the American repub- tolerant and exceptionally goocl na- J.ics with representa:tives from each tlired race of unequaled patience. of the countries participating. The ''Their friendship is worth working 'datE'' at the foot of thP steps\. Pictured arE' Alpha :De-It Rll~qum and datt'. 3. \'l'hey met thPir escorts •.. at PresidPnt Fo:..'s houst>\. L. to :R.: Bud Haney, Barbara Kiger, Henry HoC'huli, Merri AH.mn, Edwm•d Bates, J>eggy S<'hear, John McCarthy, Carol Mason. Fred Wyatt and Bob Brockhurst Art Clark: These parties are a like to see the upperclassmen were the life of the party, each do- good idea, 'because they stir up so- standing around like wolves. The ing a swell job of carrying the cia! interest between the colleges. music should have been slower with rarty along after the nickelodeon I suggest that the gi·rls be taken fewer vocals, and I advoca:te a nick- decided to \sit out\ a few nlim- to the fraternities m0re, since it t.lodeon that works. The Skidmore' bers. Bod did a fine j0b on the gives them a better impt·ession of fr·eshmen were a congenial bunch piano, and Fred introduced some the college. I approve of the nick- and a nice group of girls. lively games. Mrs. Fux. too, gave I t!udPun over a second rate band, 1 Matt Arnold': I think the most the party a ring of joviality and but a better selection of records· exciting part of the dance was success. The party broke up about would improve futut e dances. I when the would-be engineers trip- eleven when the gi.rls boarded the I nick Raymond:: l t tlink Fred Wy- 1 !Jed over t~e vic. and spill7d the bUsE's for the trip \North.\ Your ~tt deset·ves a lot of credtt for the: records whtle trymg to \stnke up rE'porter leamed that the girls sang 1 ~well job he did of turning the a!-, the band\ again. Union songs as the buses rolled must fatal incident of the jammed: John Grant: The ::;car·city uf girls back to Skid·more. nickelodeon into a go0d time. 1 was a handicap. However, every- Some people connected with the LP<' Landis: I think the whole, unc seemed pleased and enthusias- party had this to say when inter- affair wa·s run off very smoothly., ttc ovet the procedut•e of the party. viewed: 1 The manner of chousing partners 1 Three -girls from Skidmore have Fred \\'yatt: l thought that it fot the game was unique since a, this to say: was a success, although the fellows 1 fellow met his \date\ at the foot JtiDE' LandN: I thought it was a are better judges of that. The two uf the steps. I think ~veryone had, wondPrful party, and I had a swell par ties at Skidmore have been a good time I know I did. : time going to the fraternity houses. postponed until aftet· the fuutball . 1 Bah Carstens: I think it shoul,d ·I t~ink the partie~ work b~tter at season. be ltept a \freshman\ party. I don t Unton than they could• at Skrdmore. Name Managing Heads Of Opera Performance Age Takes Five Trees from Union's Grounds Although three elms, two pines, Eleven Glee Club members will and thl ee sycamores arP being re- be on the committee that will man- moved this week by the college age the presentation of Guiseppe grounds crew and some tree sur- \'Prdi's opera \Rigoletto\ at the geons from New York. there is no Mount Pleasant High School audi- danger of a shortage in reforesta- torium October 23, W. J. Stillman, tion according to Anthony Hoadley, '42, general chairman of the affair, I' eomptroller. announced today. Where trees are not a !ready Each of the men selected will be planted to replace the othen, which given some specific phase of the ar- are succombing to old age, new rangements to have under his indi- unes will be provided from the col- vidual responsibility, Stillman said. lege nursery. As to the disposition Although tt has not )et been de- of the old trees. Mr. Hoadley said termined what thE' particular duties th<' pines will be sent away to be of the various committeemen will cut into tough lumber and the other be, Stillman was able to announce 1 tt ''<!8 will be cut into lire wood the names of tho::;e whu would take 1 w !Jete practicable ur carted to per- charge as follows; Robert Zell, '44, 1 . tions of t~e grounds where thcJ. Alexander Arony, '42, Louis Loeb, may deca:,.· m peace. '43, Edward Fliegel, '42. Edwin j ---- o Smith, '44, Amasa Howland, '43, I. Naughton Appointed Walter Thiessen. '42, John Grow, h • I '42, Edward Schulze, '42, and J.; C em1stry nstrudor Bundy Shaw, '42. 1 . . \Rigoletto ·, as it will be present- 1 Appomtmt>nt of :-.it· _John . J ed by the American Civic Opera' ~aughto~. of Nr~ Yorl{ Cit~·· as m- Company. is an opera in three acts strurtor m ch<>mtl'try at Un:on Col- and 11 scenes, with a cast of five : ~pge, w~s announced today. by Pres- and a narrator. The names of these 1 . tdent ?lxon R;an Fox .. M1. Naugh- in the cast and the descriptions of ton, v; ho h.old. t~e degt ee of Bac~· their careers will •be published in i l'lor. of ::;nenC'e tn Chemtral Engt- Friday's issue of The Concordiensts. i n~·Pt mg from the College of the ____ 0 ___ __ Ctty of ~PW Yorlc and thP dpgr·ep I of Master of Science from New Ynrl' l'ni\'Ptsity. wa~ a 'l'Parhing- 1 F'Pllow in t·he latter institution I ~rom 1[137 until Mn~~~~is ~Par Collegian Songbird Trio Seized in Saratoga Serenade (Special to The Concorditmsis) Saratoga Springs-Two Colgate freshmen and a Princeton fresh- man were held for a short time early Sunday morning by the Sara- toga Police for disturbing the peace. Th.<il trio ha<! !Jeen ser·enading Par!{ View dorm, singing Colgate marching songs, where one of the men was said to ·have a sister. The police were called from the house next door. Arriving in a radio car, two po- licemen rushed the rear of the dorm where the men were. They were seized, hustled into the car and taken for a ten minute ride at the end of which they were re- leased. Afterward one of the Colgate students said that the police had told them to \cut out singing\ and had warned them to l{eep away from the rear of the dorms. All But 3 Campus Houses Arll Wired to UBS Network UBS Programs 640 Ki/oc:yc/es WPdnesday 5:15--Tea Dance Time 5:3()- -NE'WS 5:35--For Your Enjoyment 7:15-Campus Caravan 7:30-Classics of the World 7:45-News Thursday 5:15--Jackpot on the Air 5:20-Jive Session 5:30--News 5:35 For Yout· Enjoyment 7:15-Campus Caravan 7:30-Classics of the World 7:45 -News As WE' go to press, an attempt is bt>ing madE> to arrangE' a special interviPw with the captain of the MiddlPbury team for Friday eve- ning. If the plans cam be completed, UBS will go on tltE' air for thls spe- cial program sometime Friday eve- ning. Complt>te details will be an- nomt<>ed in Daily AssPmbly and the Friday ConcprdiE>nsis. Police Seek Student Who Removed Trolley Island Lanterns Friday Night Schenectady police sought the cooperation of The Concordiensis Friday evening in an effort to ef- fect the recovery of red lanterns taken from the State Street trol- ley loading islands. Sergeant Fitzsimons of the Ttaffic Bquad called The Con- cordien::;i::; at 9:10 p. m. and asked the staff of the newspaper to scour the campus for the lights. He explained that a group of Union students, riding in a con- vertible, had been seen taking the lanterns. The police wrre espe- cially anxiou~ to get thE-m bac>k bPcause they had no more to place on the islands. Last year the city was sued successfully in Federal court when a motorist ran into an unlighted loading platfm·m. A motet c~ clc policeman took the licen:oe of the automobile the Sergeant said. -\lo charges will be placed against the student, he said, if the lanterns are returned. ----------------- Neutrals' Le+ter tContirtued !tum Page 2l tJ a! !Paders to provide that unify- ing force. And it is for every or- 1 ganized student agency to help I them accomplish that ideal. Partie- I ularly should The Concordiensis do this, for the neutrals form 40 per cent of the community which sup- ports it. Certainly the national ad- ministration would be condemned if the President should announce \the poor in the past have cer- tainly shown their· group deserving of very little sup;.mrt. therefore. the government washes their hands of them.\ If that is to be the policy of The Concordiensis. then the neutrals well might demand that they cease to be a part of the community The Con cor diensis serves. And the stu- dent tax committee might then be obliged to cut their Concordiensis appropriations 40 per cent. It is far better that the Concor- diensis, with other student leader- &hip agencies, keep on with its ef· forts to provide an incentive for neutral organization. The incentive provided, their efforts will not be futile. William Moore '42, Edgar Fisher, '42, William C. Birdsall, Robert Bishop, '43 '42, All but three of the campus fra- ternities and dormitories have been connected to the wiring system of the Union Broadcasting System, it was announced yesterday by Glad- den Houck, '44. The wiring wa<1 completed last week, but technical j still difficulties make it impossible , for all thE' newly-connected houses i to receive the programs immediate- ly. Gazette Press The only fraternities which still remain outside the wiring system are Phi Delta Theta, Delta Phi and Delta Chi. North College, Old Gym Dormitory, Psi Upsilon, Delta Up- silon, Phi Gamma Delta, Beta Theta Pi, Chi Psi, Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi have all .been con- nected. Printing national anthems of all these na- for, especially since they have re- Ruth White: The music served tions wHI be sung, to be follawecl peated·IY demonstrated their willing- the purpose and was loud enough. by parades of La Salle Institute • ness to meet us half way in exte:Bd- The outcome of the football game Cadets and part of the New Y ark · ing cordial relations,\ Dr. Stubing wasn't good, and there was a lack National Guard and speakers span- statecl when interviewed for an ar- of spirit. sm ed by the Rotary, Kiwanis, and ticle on his trip which is to be ·Lois Sexton: The game was good Lions Clubs. printed shortly in The Concordi- and alse the spirit. The whole thing On Thursday, Lieutenant Gov- was a success, a·nd I think the par- ernor Charles Poletti, will preside l1es work better at Union. over a discussion of education, so- An inside t·eporter states that cia! welfare, and labor problems in before dinner some of the girls other American republics. In the \vcre quite displeased with their afternoon a concert of Latin Ainer- <..la:tes, who were supposed to be the ican music will be offered. On Fri· r,w:;t unsmuoth group immaginable. day, WTRY wiU hold round table Gossip also has it that the girls I discussions with students from R. plotted favorable date changes as P. I. and Russell Sage participating. did the fellows. I Mrs. Roosevelt wHI lead a meeting The general consensus of the up- for women to precede the address perclassmen is that they should be by the minister plenipotentiary of u.l'lowed to \wolf.'' Mexico. ens is. ~-~---0- ~ -·-- Tidmarsh !Cantinued from Page 1l came more famous, the audiences have ·become c0nesponding!y larger·, he concluded. A total of 3 536 compositions have been played during the six- teen years of the concerts, accord- ing to stories of the 500th Anniver- sat·y Recital in \The American -----o--- On Saturday, a \Fiesta\ will be Organist\ and \The Diapason\. FOUND Groundskeepers found a girl's slipper, size 4 '1~, under section A of the football stands after Saturday's t.:nion-I-Iobart game. Wha:t next? A girl, says Si. held at Russell Sage with exhibi- Bach's Toccata and Fugue in D tions of Latin American dances, in- Minor has been the most popular, eluding the famous hat dance. This 1 having b\en played 37 times. Liszt's latter will be performed by a Cuba~1! ··Uebestraum\ and Widor's Toccata dance team and students from the !rom hb fifth symphony follow in two colleges. Interviews with num-1 that order. ·PATRICIA COMPrON of Dallas, Texas 0 A;s Kar on the campus_ este They're cheering Chesterfields because they're MILDER COOLER and BETTER-TASTING You'd enjoy reading \Tobaccoland U.S. A.,, or hearing a lecture on Chesterfield's can't-be-copied blend of the world's best cigarette tobaccos •.. but the best way to learn about Chesterfields is to try 'em. You 'II find more cigarette pleasure than you ever had before. t:opyright 191.1, LIGGETT & IIIYERS TOBACCO Co, You'll ioin tile millions who say WITH ME IT'S CHESTERFIELD .... Vol! F Fr~ E~ Cl~ y, A s Ec field. of tl elect fol10 mon ... nect: Rich Aurc tary, Flail u1·er by F of tt Ba scho fresl filiat nity. aSSQI seco was \{etb Ta ior c Colli a rr orar Will neut R1 the : of tl nis footl Alpt FI: foot! Gam rece· cern was tearr In iensi he \ I he sam• year now. R1 mate py t of tl utm1 Flyn mote Fl. fresl Witl expr finat Ta com: Li: ceivc A. R< Ec R( D< Tl Ri h·• ~( GE Ri Ri T. Fr M Lo Ec AI Ja Don StoJ De four CollE Tue~ Er Ro01 dow tum! Whi Tl': out for reve brui:

be ad- ion to ch- the re- cas Dr. a na- ing re- ar- be ons six- can D in ... Football Rally Details Volume LXV. Number 9 Phootes• Editorial 4·0133 ·Press ·1·414:1 • The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1941 • Watch StS Union Win Tomorrow Price Se Fire Demolishes 'Ski Haben', Outing Club Cabin Fresbmen Elect Edward L. Bates Class President Taylor, Raymond, Flynn Also Named to Offices; Spiri.t, Unity Watchwords Edward L. Bates, Jr., of Pitts- field, Mass., was elected presi·dent of the 150th freshman class at an election held in Memorial Chapel following as,;embly on Wednesday morning. Alton H. Taylor of Sche- nectady was elected vice-president, Richard D. Raymond of East Aurora, N. Y., was elected secre- tary, and Thomas Flynn of White Plains, N. Y ., was elected treas- urer. The announcement was made by Robert K. Killian, '42, president of the Student Council. Bates, who holds· a Steinmetz scholarship, is a member of the freshman football squad and is af- filiated with Beta Theta Pi frater- nity. While in high school he was associate editor of the newspaper, second student in his class, and was a member of the football, bas- l{etball, golf, and swimming teams. Taylor was president of his sen- ior class, a member of the Student Council and the Hi-Y. He was also a member of the National Hon- orary Society. Taylor holds the William Allen scholarship, and is a neutral. Raymond was vice-president of the Student Council and a member of the basketball, soccer, and ten- nis teams. He is on the freshman football team and is affiliated with Alpha Delta Phi fraternity. Flynn, also on the freshman football squad, is pledged to Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and has received a scholarship. He played ccrnet in his high school band and was on the football and track teams. In a statement to The Concord- iensis yesterday, Bates said that he wished to \thank his classmates. I hope that they will show the same spirit all through their four years as they have shown until now.'' Raymond, in thanking his class- mates, said that he was \very hap- py to have been elected secretary of the class. I will cooperate to the utmost to assist Messrs. Bates, Flynn, and Taylor in order to pro- mote an efficient organization. Flynn said, \I want to thank the freshman class for their support. With. the same spirit as already expressed, our dance will be a financial success.\ Taylor could not be reached for comment on his election. List of nominees and votes re- ceived: A. Melcher Anderson-lOS Robert A. Bartlett-\\·-158 Edward L. Bates, Jr.-311 Reginald J. Cal'l'oll-183 Donald H. Carstens-138 Thomas Flynn-201 Richard M. Griffing-41 Irwin Herman-121 ~dward N. Rearton-17 George H. 1\liddlemiss-106 Richard J. Murphy-90 Richard D. Raymond-248 T. Robert Ryan-98 Frederick E. Schaefer-99 Maxie Slee-110 Louis Steege-93 Edward Stefic-94 Alton H. Taylor-268 James H. Wheeler-57 -BEAT MIDDLEBURY- Don Nickerson Falls Three Stories But Is Uninjured Don Nickerson, '45, fell from a fourth story South Section, South College window and escaped injury Tuesday evening. Engaged in a \bull session,\ in Room 12, while sitting on the win- dow ledge, he lost his balance and tumbled to the roof of Professor Whitaker's garage. The wind was completely knocked out of him and he could not speak for five minutes. An examination revealed no broken bones but a few bruises on his rear end. National Youth Administration Work Scholarships Awards 76 New G:rants Made By Tax Com:mittee Four Aefivities Get Supple1nentary Funds To Budget Awards Will Work With Professors Under Eigh.t General Classifications Awat·ding of 76 work scholarships , to Union College undergraduates . from National Youth Administra- tion funds was announced t0day by Miss Frances Travis, director of • Union's student employment bureau and campus NYA dilector. Engaged under eight general Four campus organizations wer·e C'lassificationP. the ,scholarship re- awarded a total of $330 for their ~ipients will work with professors r~spective activities Wednesday: and administrative ~taff members when the Student Tax Committee. to supplement their college educa- v_oted supplementary appropria-. tion. tton:> to the Mountebanks anu the One student Richard w Lent Debate team, a loan to the Badio ~ will assist Cadman Hislop ·of th~ Works.hop and a. grant to the I.n- English Department in research ternattonal Relatwns Club, Chatr- . for a book to be published in the man Joseph Furlong announced . River Selies of the Mohawk. yesterday. · Seven will be assistants to phys- All four awards were made on; ica:l education professors in carry- the basis of evidence presented at ing out a special health program I hearings last week. The money for all freshmen in addition to as- used tor the appropriations and sist in swimming instruction and the grant will come from that ~upervision of hygiene class attend- which was not appropriated last ance. They are William Sears, year and the slight excess of !unds Bruno Schulze. Clifford Platt, Paul anticipated as a result of the in- Myers, Walter Galus~a. Abraham cwased enrollment, Furlong said.· B. Dorsman, and Regmald Carroll. T 1 . h R d' W k h . ?rofessars J. Harold WittnPr and he oan ta t e a 10 or s op: Wiiford Ketz will supervise these was requested on behalf of the· workers. Union Broadcasting. System, in order to make immediate payment Faculty Assistants on bills which have already been Another group will receive office incurred and to replace equip-. training with various admirristra- ment now belonging to students tive offices and professors. Seymour with materials belonging to the Thi~kman will assist Dr. George H. UBS. Danton in the Gm·man department. Marvin Pe!konen will assist in the Radio Workshop President's office under Miss Lillian The Tax Committee investigated Applegarth. Seymour T. Pearlman will train under Miss Anna Mae the reliability of the R. J. Reyn- Law in the student activities office olds contract offered as collateral while Ric hal d Buchanan and Rob- and granted the loan from surplus ert McNulty will help in the admis- funds on the condition that failure sions office unler Frederic A. to repay the money result in sale Wyatt. of the new equipment to meet the Leon Levine will assist Dr. Ern- debt. The Radio Workshop is ex- est M. Ligon in psychological test- peeled to agree to this stipulation ing and scoring. Albert Kronick immediately. wiU work under Dr. David Morse in After a review of the possibil- theh mathematics department and ities of extra Tax Committee funds John Ford will do clerical WOI k resulting from the probable added for Dr. James Watt Mavor of the enrollment for both semesters, the biology department. John Hockman Committee considered the request and Sherwood Greiner will assist in of the Mountebanks for a supple- the Dean's Office under Mrs. Char- lotte Rapalje. mentary appropriation. Mrs. Ernest Webster will con- At the h~aring on this appro- tinue training Stanley A. Davis in priation, the representatives of the the Graduate Council while Donald Mountebanks, Gordon Rust, ad- R. Broclrwell will assist social stud- visor, and Edward FliPgel, '42, Busi- ies professors under the direction ness Manager, had PxplainPd that of Mh;s Anna Nardini. Edward the organization had suffered a Craig will assist Professor Bertrand much larger deficit than that an- Wainger and Herbert Bredemeier ticipated at the end of last year. If will work with Profesoor Mortimer th0 Mountebanks were forced to F. Sayre. make up all that deficit from this Eleven youths will do shelving, year's appropriation, Mr. Rust marking and desk work in the col- pointed out, they would be able to lege library and extend the special present only one production this project if sorting little used books year. They had already effect- in the Old Chapel vault under the ed a voluntary cut of about two- supervision of Kenneth C. Hayes, thirds in their budget. The com- assistant librarian. They are: Rob- mittee voted them 110 dollars. ert D. Wortendyke, Richard K. The Debate team request was Watanabe, Jason A. Tepper, James made for money to pay for a cup McNulty, John Lindeberg, Wilbur to be given as a prize for the cur- Lalrin, William Kling, Leonard Ge- rent intra-mural ·debate program nova, Harold Boroson, Kenneth and to pay for more trips to away Barnes and John J. Adamzevich. debates. The committee had not Twenty-two boys will be engaged (Continued on Page 4) (Continued on Page 4) Fla:mes Raze Ancient Wives.. Including Mrs. As Get-together Picnic (a,bin To Ground; Faculty Fox~' Are Almost Caught Ends In Tragedy Yesterday Ski Haben Before Fire Associates Laud Dr. Tidmarsh .As Campus Awaits 500th Recital ·-----------------------------~ Alumni to Return For Game. Meeting About 80 Union College ·alumni are expected to attend meetings of the alumni representatives and Gift Fund class agents Saturday. F'rederic A. Wyatt, director of ad- missions, has sent im·itations to 335 alumni representatives for the rep- resentatives' conference but dis- tance will probably .prohibit most from attending. The body, which includes alumni from widely sep- arated points, such as the Pana- ma Canal Zone, will meet to dis- cuss effectiveness of their work. Their work consists of interesting boys in their home towns in Union College. Charle,; N. Waldron, secretary of the college, is arranging the meet- ing of the class agents of the Gift Fund. This Fund has been used for such projects as construction of the new Alexander Field, installing the campus lighting system, estab- lishing scholarships and paying ex- penses c,f exchange students from St. Andrews, Scotland. About 35 of the 45 class agents are expected to meet. F. Michler Bishop of New York City, new chairman of the college finance committee, will confer with the :;tgents. Earlier in the afternoon, both groups will be guests of the athletic department at the Union-Middle- bury football game. Dinner will be served them in Hale House. Arpard Fazakus, Organ Builder, Conditions Instrument for Program The occasion of Dr. Elmer A. Tid- marsh's five-hundredth organ re- cital has brought forth much com- ment from campus associates as well as a national 1·eputation as one of the foremost musicians in Amer- ica. Dr. Fox expressed his admiration and congratulations ·saying, \It -is almost superfluous to comment on the significance of the ~ive-hun­ dredth organ recital of our director of music, Dr. Tidmarsh. It may be that, as Lincoln said, \you can fool some of the people all of the time;\ but you can't fool a community like ours five hundred times. Had the programs been medioc1e or the mu- sician careless or insincere the audience would have fallen away long since. Instead they have sus- tained themselves in numl-ers and quality, and many persons of dis- criminating taste would feel a ne- cessary absence a real deprivation. Our heartiest congratulations go to Dr. Tldmarsh on a great achieve- ment.\ Faulty Flue or Chimney Cited as Cause; Club Offered Use of Schoolhouse Ski Raben, the North River cabin of The Outing Club, was completely destroyed by fire yesterday after- no0n while being used as a picnic retreat by the Faculty Women':: Club. :'l<o]1ody was injured in the ·fire. The fire leveled the ancient cabin within an hour after it was first discovered. The women were prevented from putting out the fire in it\ early stagPs because the spring \was bone dry.\ Planned as a get-together picnic of faculty wives, thirteen of them had left Schenectady early yester- day morning in three cars. The first arrivals, Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, Mrs. Henry G. Harlow, and M1s. Herbert R. Houghton, found the cabin damp and lighted a small fire in the pot 'bellied iron stove used to heat the cabin. Start Fire \We used a iew sticks of wood and an old Concordiensis to start the fire,\ Mrs. Fox said. After warming up slightly the women went out front to eat their lunches which wme to be eaten cold. The second group to arrive, Mrs. Charles B. Hurd, Mrs. Frederic C. Schmidt, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. Allan C. Scott and Mrs. Wal- ter C. Langsam, found nothing un- usual in their tour of the cabin and also went outside to eat their lunch. Those in the third car, Mrs. Syl- vester J. Haefner, Mrs. John J. Naughton and Mrs. Sumner Cotzin, had food ·to warm. They noted that the stove was \stone cold\ and warmed their food on the electric stove. Later they said they had noted no fire in the iron stove. The fire was first spotted about 1:30 p.m. when the women noticed a column of smoke rising out of the opening ·between the chimney and roof. Almost immediately a·fter- ward smoke burst from the second story windows of the cabin. Alarmed, the women raced to the well only to find it dry. Mrs. Fox prevented the women from going upstails to save what they could. \The smolie was pouring down the stairway and I wa:; afraid the stairs would fall,\ she said. The women were able to save the books, post- ers, register, table, benches, plates and silver from downstairs. Ranger Notes Flames Mrs. Fox U:rove to the Log House only to be met ·by the owner who told her that she knew all about the fire which had been spotted by the rangers on Gore Mountain. By the time she had gotten back, the Fire Wardens were at the cabin with a truck \full of chemicals\ putting out the fire in the grass. The local farmers also fought the fire with shovels and were paid a quarter an hour by the faculty wives. Philomatheans Announce Intramural Debating Results; Panel of Judges Agree to Vitality. Success of Program James Stillman, who tunes the organ for Dr. Tidmarsh stated, \When I first came to Union I ex- pected to go to the organ recitals to regain chapel cuts, but after the first recital Dr. Tidmarsh's music proved so inspirational that I have attended regularly since then. Be- fore coming to Union I had some interest in organ music, but Dr. Tidmarsh increased my interest. Now I would rather hear Dr. Tid- marsh play than hear a 'Philhar- monic orchestra, for Dr. Tidmarsh, alone, creates superior music to forty men in an orchestra. Through Dr. Tidmarsh's policy of replaying pieces until they are familiar, I really learned to appreciate fine music.\ First to fall was the wood shed, then the tin roof buckled and fell to the rear, then the side timbers which were massive beams fell. The huge logs, which were the front door frame, were the last to go. A leaky flue or stuffed chimney were named as possible cause of the fire. Mrs. Fox said that none of the women who went upstairs smoked at all. The mattresses us- ually had been piled in the corner near the stove pipe and Mrs. Fox said that it was possible that sparks escaped from the pipe to the mattresses. Results of the second week of ·• intramural debates released by the 43 points to defeat Kappa Sigma executive committee of the Philo- 43-31. Sibma Chi's representatives mathean Society indicate that the turned in a 43-16 victory ove1· North scores were much higher than the College which was featured by '1 previous week. cross-questioning. P.hi Gamma Del- In league 1, Theta Delta Chi de- ta defeated Chi Psi in a poor con- feated Beta Theta Pi by 36-14. test by 10-7. Delta Upsilon was inactive, al- In their first debate, Psi Upsilon though it was scheduled to debate, eked out a win over Alpha Phi as the Alpha Delta Phi representa- Delta in a slow see-saw battle, tives were not present at the de- 29-28. Phi Sigma Kappa over- bate, and hence forfeited the de- whelmed Phi Delta Theta 36-13, as bate. In the third debate in league IDdward Johnson, '44, made almost 1, Delta Phi, high scorer last week, 'a perfect score. The neutrals· de- nosed out Kappa Nu 41:-35 in a very' faulted for the second successive closely contested debate which· week, this time to Phi Sigma Delta, proved to be the best one of the which ·has yet to actively partici- evening. pate in a debate. Kappa Alpha continued its win- All in all the results have been ning ways by amassing a score of satisfactory, if generaliz::ttions may be made. Statements made to The Concordiensis by the panel of judges indicate that the program is quite satisfactory and points to a successful season. Although several groups have not made use of the bibliography in the library, as indicated by their de- bates, most of the teams have given a good account of themselves. With more experience in this type of work, it was felt by the judges, the program and the value of it to the students will prove to be great. Dr. Campbell, adviser to the Philomathean Society, stated that \The idea that Union student groups would interest themselves in a program of round-table det..at- (Continued on Page 4) Organ Builder Here Arpard E. Fazakas, one of the world's leading organ builders and the builder of the largest organ in the United States, the Grace Church organ in Orange, New Jersey, is putting the organ in condition for Dr. Tidmarsh's recital Sunday. Dr. Tidmarsh will play Bach's \Toccata and Fugue in D Minor\; \Les Preludes\ by Liszt; Schu· man's \Canon in B Minor\; Lib- estraum\ by Liszt; \Ballet\, by Debussy; \Ride of the Valkyries'' and \Liebestod\, by Wagner, and Widor's \Toccata from Fifth Sym- phony.\ Only the Wagner numbers were not included in the first pro- gram: nearly 16 years ago. The cabin was covered by $1,000 worth of insurance. Mrs. Fox pledged the Faculty Women's club to the restoration of much of the interior of the cabin when it is again rebuilt. The destruction of the cabin will not end the Outing Club's skiing program for they have been offered the use of the schoolhouse, part way up the mountain, until the cabin can be rebuilt,

m~e- (lhtntnrbitttsis FRIDAY, OCTOBER lD, 1'941 .\!ember of the Assoetuted Collegiate Press a!lll dis· tnbutor of the Collegiate Digest Represen tell fur ~atiurwl Advertisiug by ~ational :\.dYerth;·Ing Set\-~ ice. Jn,·., Collc>ge Publb,n- cr;;:. l~~..;preoentative, .t:.;v -----=~-============, ffian.cor ~\'ladist•n ..:\ vcuue, ~t.:\\ Yurk City. \.! Causa Pasa Parult I ssai\ l·J,l!torial Office. SJllima!.l llall, L'nion College. Pub- lication Office. Tile Ga- tettc> l'ress, 33·1 State St. F:!ttH~ll ill the Scollen~c­ la<IY Pu~t Ofiice as Sec- ond Class :.\!ail ;\latter. Suh<rliPlion 5c a l'OJlY: $3 }'(;;lUI; delivered an,ywhei'G 111 tile CniteLI States. seuior Honrd AtllliUHl \'. l'eigetrlmum. ... l<:qq,~J. ~u I lou.... l·i3:n . . . . . . . . . ................. EdltOI'•ill·Cltlcf ........................ Business )lnnag·l·t· Ju,tln l'<'l'J,teiu ........ . .... I..:.appa :\u Ht,U,...t l·i~:11 t;.,,Gti ............ }lanng-lng· Etlitor Solomon 1llech·man ..... . .Tonu.thun PNtr..,un ...... . :Snmul'l PorHWJ ............ . 1:. ):IH dit· :--;l,·tit~ll, :\oJtl <_',Jlt.-~t ~!!!tna l)l!i l 1 l:ll't' -l~ti8::!1 ,..:.:t!•!•.t ~L! iit·u~\- -~-:::::1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sports Editol' . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . .b~oriate 'Ed·itor Juuiur Bonrll- l~ubt_·Jl l.Lt)IILI, Ti1' 111.l:- u t_',tt.l.l•l. ll.tl· \'t:'r Fi:-:hhntw .• Ja('l: ~l'lnrlz. llL111gt 1 TllJIJI. :\unnau l·;ux. Staff .Pl1otog rapnt·r Su!>homnrt• Bonl•d Thoma<' l'ul h·I .. \\'!I !Jam !!art. AI· bt>rt l\.ron1ck, Ed\\:tHl .I•·IIII~~~~~. ~t\~'lll••UI TtHL'kJil~liL Hu•-iJH'\\ \~~tal'i .\lt· 1 \ lllt· ~h.· ... :-tll;.;t.:l', I la·\ id Ho~t·nblum. ~·(:11'\'ill l.'l:dllt>L l\ll(' J: t1 i111r. . . ................• Tltnmn' O'('OIIIIOt' ~\ ------·----~--------. -----·-- ----- --- -----------~~==.!! Friday, October 10, 1941 MUSICIAN ~Iemhers of the Glee Club and Choir re- hearse several hours a week, are rigidly mmked on attendance, and are expected to conform to the club codes. Well over one hundred men try out yearly for entrance into this stl'ictly regulated soci- ety, and the successful fifty or more coBsider themselves and are considered as fortunate. There are more factors than love of music to explain this \pull\ of the Glee Club which is so much greater than that of the average coHege activity. One of these factors, per- haps the major one ,is Elmer A. Tidmarsh, Director of l\Iusic at Union. There are several phm.ses by which Tid- marsh might be described. Those who love him have called him a great musical leader and one of those few who are able to inter- pret the classics gently; those who do not have termed him a slave ctl'iving martinet and a supel'-perfectionist. Neither of these pat phrases are particu- larly appropl'iate nor pmticularly descl'iptive. :\lost accurate description of Dr. Tidmarsh is 1\Iusician. Only a musician would have had the pa- tience and the capacity for unceasing labor necessm·y to build from the ground a Glee Club now second to that of no small college. Only a 1\Iusician would have g·one th1·ough the pangs and the trials attendant upon establishing· a Sunday organ recital at a time when competition from more active pleasures was very great. Only a l\Iusician would have had the abil- ity to develop a sensible and en.i oyable form of Music Appreciation-a >veekly recital of the classics in Daily Assembly. Only a Musician would have been suffi- c:entl,\· interested to advance out of pocket the large sHm necessary for purchase of a pian0 much needed by the Glee Club and for ~lemorial Chapel; or to bring to the campus artists whose appear in terms of personal pn bl·ici ty was far less than their ability to g·!'\.'€ pleasure throug-h their music. This representative of the musical arts in the L'nion community has done nmch in and for tile college. He has led a large number of men who have continually brought credit to the name of Union both by their excellent rend·itions and gentlemanly conduct. He has been a leader in the attempt b~· the college to open some of its facilities to townspeople -lJy his cooperation with their choral groups and through his several recitals. Equally im- l!lOl'tant, association with Tidmarsh has been a constant source of benefit to members of the college community. He has brought to the Union scene one of the points of view necessary to give the rounded picture that must be available in a good college. When Elmer Tidmarsh begins to play the first selection of his five hundredth organ recital in Memol\ial Chapel this Sunday, there <ll\e many men who will see in his fingers mme than their usual quality of expert musi- cianship. They will see them, as they fly over the keys, as the tools which have been instmmental for sixteen years in making union one of the few educational institutions in which ;\Iusic and Musicians have taken the!r proper place among the arts and artists. BY TWO TOUCHDOWNS The Campus really enjoyed seeing itself uall-out'' at rallies these past two Fridays before games with teams who beat us. That all-out attendance, which seasoned observ- ers have termed \best spirit in years'' is even more appro.priate tonight at a rally for a game with a team that we are going to beat by two touchdowns. We'll see you in front of the gym at i :30 tonight. FEMALE EFFICIENCY Anyone who feels that our freshmen are just babes in arms being sent in against the latest forms of female efficiency in the em- rent Freshmen Parties just isn't acquainted with the facts. Skidmore freshmen are just girls with old fashioned techniques \vhen compared with the rigorous date training given the average freshman co-ed being pre- pared for her first onslaug·ht on \introduc- tion parties.\ Our cmTespondents inform us that Massa- chusetts State co-eds are among the leaders of the pack in this new form of feminine mechanization. To demonstrate our point as to the state of comparative helpless feminin- ity that is a Skidmore freshman, we will quote certain salient passages in the training booklet published by Bay State senior girls for instruction of the neophytes. First important information instructs the co-ed : \Don't be choosey at first. Some fel- lows can introduce you to some good future dates if you're smart.\ Then, \On dating, the advice is to hold on to yom kisses 'til you find somebody you really want to g·ive them to.\ Other warnings include: \Don't be posses- sive. It is the easiest way to lose a date. \Don't drink more than two if you drink at alL You can still be .sociable without drink- ing. \Don't believe an eighth of what you hear. \Don't forget that boys talk about girls .. and if you 'neck' with one man, all his brothel'S will know it soon.\ The seniors conclude by advising \Wear your girdle unless you·re a veritable nymph -the day of the hip swinging siren is gone.\ Efficient? Brother, your Skidmore fresh- nl.an is just an old fashioned girl. :SOTICE I open for the collection of tuition The second installment of tui- ac~ounts on Wednesdar, October tion for the first semester is due 15 · ative of any firm to visit Union College this fall to interview stu- dents. ~nd should be paid Wednesday, from 9:00 A.M. to 12:30 P.M., and October 15. No bills have been is- from 1:00 to 4:45P.M. sued and it is requested that all students having payments due NOTICE: make them on the above date. Any Mr. Mosely Brown. a representa- question regarding the amount due tive of the Vicks School of Ap- should be asked at the Comptrol- plied Merchandising, is on the caro- ler's Office at once. pus. The institution which he rep- Editorial Writers Upper classmen interested in writing Concorliensis editorials are asked to see Armand Feigenbaum, '42, Editor-in-Chief at the Kappa Nu House. ALL PAYMENTS MADE AFT- resents is conducted under the ER THE ABOVE DATE WILL BE auspices of the Vlclts Chemical Co. SUBJECT TO THE USUAL FINb An excellent chance exists for those who would like to write es- says exclusively. They will become members of a special editorial col- Mr. Brown i::; here to inter-· umn board. OF $2.00. view members of the class of 1942. No knowledge of typing or news The Comptroller's Office will be Mr. Brown is the first represent- writing is required. -EDil'ORIAL 2 Concordiensis :Continues Investigation Completing List Of Fraternity Oosts Ar·e Un!OI:J.'s fraternities commit--~--- ------------------· ting financil_a suicide by fail~ng to formation .from each house wHl be 'of The Concm·diensis staff wiU ap- cooperate w1th one a~ot~er m t~e kept on fHe at The Concordiensis proach the other fraternities with purc·hase of food supphes . _T_he fall· office. They wiU be ltept entirely similar f.orms. Using the same c:1c of any houses to exhtblt, pub- confidential except with express forms we shall obtain prices from llc!y, ~t !ca~t, any signs of ap- permission for publication. as many markets as .possi•ble in this ?rcachu_1~ bunkruptc_Y would s~em · One .of the problems of present- area. .o conf11~ a negat1ve answel to mp, comparative prices· in a fai·r In futute articles, we shall ·inves- that questwn. manner is that of reconcHing dif- tigate t-he possi,bilities offered by The pessi·bil-ity 1ema·ins, ·huV\cver ferences iH qouaUty. In secui'ing markets outside Scl1enectady ar-hl that the fraternities are losing con- these ptices it has been found to· by various \'!holesale houses. In trc siderable sums of money paid in be impossible to determine what, former case, we shall accompany board bills ·by paying unjustif.iabl~ . or imtance, fraternity A, which; our report with information em tl ~ high prices. As this Concordiensis ,Pl:)S more for a certain commodity possibilities of common me o: ~urvey of food expenditure~. begun transpot taticn facili-ties. In the la:- last week, .c0ntinues an attempt · ----- -~- ·-- ter 1 c1·edit policies wiH also 'be L1·· will be made to lind an answer to Frat<'I'nity vestigated. this question. Before we attempt to reach any Items conclusions, however, sorr.e policies· t-ggs (.per doz.) A .50 B .33 No conclusions wHI be drawn un· c til as much pertinent information .S: as possible has been obtai,ned. When .32 this infm mation is all in, the con· elusions drawn will be acco!'rlpar.ied by ·sugf e~ted actions. and !nforrr.a- .Z€ :ion con~erning their pra~ticability. and purpo,;;es of this investigation bacon (pt>r lb.) ...... 38 .32 should be made clear. butter (pt•r lb.) ..... .43 .39 .40 .GS This survey will constitute an at- brt>ad (JJer loaf) ..... 11 tempt to find the tt ue situation on fraternity buy·ing. Enough \casual\ evidence h!'.s been presented to jus- tify ['.n investigation of food prices. There has n0t been enough evi- dence presented to justify any con- clusion, one way or another. .10 Plan Thus, Ti~e ConcGrd!ensis' survey will not be an attempt .to prove that fraternities should practice cooper- ative buying. It will, rather, be an attempt to provide the first truly authoritative answer to the much- di~cussed question of whether the fraternities are losing money in not cooperating. We have no pre- disposed conclusions as to what the results of this survey will be. We are presenting first, two alterna- tives and with them evidence on both' sides. We shall draw conclu- sions only when all the evidence is in. Should the \casual\ -evidence that fraternities are missing possible savings prove correct, we shall, with the help of house managers and stewards, attempt to draw up a plan of fraternity co-operation worthy of consideration. In the inset accompanying this article are the results of the inves- tigation into a second series of fra- ternities who have helped by pre- senting evidence. Although n0 fra- ternity names will be mentioned, certified forms containing the in- THE CORN IS GREEN DRAMA 0n The Screen-If you hurry, you can still catch any one of the last few remaining performances of \My Life With Caroline\ which stars Ronald Colman and is cur- rently on view at Proctor's. This is a frothy little domestic comedy whose main, if not only purpose seems to be to introduce England's own Anna Lee. This is the young lady for whom, we are told, we traded those fifty destroyers. . . . Saturday comes \Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\ starring Spencer Ttacy in the dual role of saint and sinner. The film is lengthy and is not with- out a share of dull spots, but it does contain some really dramatic scenes and is the first time we can r~call that the movies have ever done anything resembling a psychological study. Tracy, al- though somewhat reminiscent of the Ritz Brothers, gives a good performance, but it remains for Ingrid Bergman to steal the pic- ture with her beautiful portrayal of an English bar-maid. Remaining at the State for a week starting today, are \The Mal- tese Falcon\ and \That Uncertain Feeling\. The fot·mer, not to be confused with \The Gay Falcon\ is one of the best mysteries ever to come out of Cinema City. Superbly directed and ad'l.pted by Walter Huston's son John, this Dashiell Hammett thriller is also fortunate in having the services of a group of excellent actms headed by Hum- phrey Bogart, Mary Astor and Peter Lorre .... The kindest thing to say about the companion piece is that Ernst Lubitsch, its famed director, has temporarily mislaid his well known touch. Although it stars Melvyn Douglas and Merle Oberon. this is Burgess Meredith's picture-if he wants it. MUSIC Disc-cussions-Gene Krupa's re- cording of \Amour\ i~ pleasing enough but it smacks too much of Jimmy Dorsey's treatment of \Green Eyes\ . . . \The Count\ played by Benny Goodman's Or- chestra is one of the better instru- mental numbers that the leader has done inquite some time, but don't tty to find any resemblance be- tween it and the Count Basie style of playing. The flip-over is a new ballad called \I See A Million Peo- ple\ and feature's B. G.'s new vocal- ist Peggy Lee. Oh well, who knows, maybe she's pretty .... A definitely unblessed event is Horace Heidt's \The Trumpets Have Triplets\ and Dick Jurgens gives us something which is really from hunger yclept \Ma-Ma-Marla\. -S. G. hamburg steal• ....... 30 .22 steak ................ 4:> .45 .sr Wyatt Asks Freshmen cart•ots (3 bunches) .10 .05 potatops (100 lbs.) .. 1.75 1.45 lettuce (per ht>ad) ... 13 .09 onions ( 10 lbs.) . . . . . .30 .40 About First Dealings In Older to find out the impres- sions of the h·e~hman concerning his fi1·st dealings with the college, with the hope of correcting some of the flaws aad roagh spots, the Ad- missions Office is distributing to each man in the class of '45 a list J1 question:; which must be answer- ed completely in order to ptove a than fraternity B, would pay if it got the same quality fraternity B purchases. In most cases, the only answer to the problem of difference in quality is ·to make general aHowa.nces for this factor when drawing ronclu- 3 uccess. sions. In some cases this allo·nance \How were you affected by your will explain the difference m price. interview with the Admissions Of- In others it will not. tice? Do you have some sugges- In the prices quoted tocld.y, the tions which will help us to improve eggs were all \Grade A\. The bacon, upon the orientation program of the butter and the onions were all next year's class?\ These are two of about the same qua:lity. In the of the interesting questions present- other cases, it was impossible to ed by the office about the incidents determine whether there were dif-1 which are still fresh in the minds fetences in quality, and if so, hov. 1 the freshmen. gr;~~ next week's article, members I -BEAT~~~~~~BURY- • for utmost servtce to the Nation In these critical times, communications play a vital part in defense. Here is how the ~e~. System is organized to meet its great responsibility. American Telephone and Telegrap~ Company coordinates all system activities, adVIs~s o~e~e- p hone operation, searches for improve me o. s. · oVIde 24 associated operating compames p_r . . . their respective terntones. telephone serv1ce m . Long Lines Department of A. T. & T. mtercon· nects the 24 operating companies, handles Long Distance and overseas service. . Bell Telephone Laboratories carries on sclen· tific research and development for the system. Western Electric is the manufacturing, purchas- ing and distributing unit. . Highly trained through many years .of wo.rl~~g h thes e Bell System companieS proVI e toget er, N h the . Wl'de unified service. ever ave a nat10n- · ' 1 t d y benefits of this system been so c ear as o a when the country is under pressure. ( h u a ( the cor wit ver 1l Un be thi Un thi, ent a 1 l pie Ri;; fou in be€ fou 'I ret cer loo wh cat ha1 ne~ thi too ]\ enc gr2 let1 mo the 'I up pl'C Un abl scv wh UVI I mo UII Me Ad Go ] Ba sc: Hi H2 Sh Hi l Ga Sh G s s~ s·

ap- by trr u~ o: la:- Ll·· un- ma- res- ege, e of Ad- to list NE'l'- a Of- ges- of two en t- 3 SPORTS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1941 iiJ~t (!tnntnrflitUEJl!i· Beat Middlebury ~----------------------- ----~------------------------------------------------------=~------------------------------------------------ Garnet Favored To For First Win Injur-ies P·l,ague Union Eleve.n O~n Eve Of Game Four Victories Apiece, Four Ties Mark Record, Dlllvis, Goldblatt Hurt I Coming down the stretch into ! [he Middlebliry game, one of the contests that \they're supposed to I win,\ the varsity footballers look very much as if they'H do just that , . , , and by a:bout three touchd&wns. : Middlebury was the last team : Union beat last year, and should · 1 be Ute fi·rst the Dutchmen thrash this season. The Panthers, like ! Union, haven't scored a point yet I this season. Their first two oppon- ' ents, Williams and Tufts, piled· up a total of 53 points against them. Union and Middlebury can settle plenty in their game tomorrow. Right now they're all tied up at four victories apiece and four ties in their series, which has always been close. Union has won the· last four games in the series. Baker Returning Though Captain Bob ERker may return to the lineup as starting center, Bob Davis, veteran end, looks as he's definitely out for a while. The other afternoon he caught the index finger of his right hand in his motorcycle chain and nearly last the digit. To cap all this Stew Goldblatt's brittle leg took another wallop yesterday. Middlebury lost both its regular ends and three of its best backs by graduation last June, but has 12 lettet·men returning, That's four more than Art Lawrence started the season with here. The visiting Panthers, who'll line up for the kickoff at 2 o'clock, will probably scale s!ig·htly lighter than Union. The Garnet line will .prob- ably outweigh the visitor ·by at least seven pounds to the man. The line which started for Union last week averaged 187 pounds. Chieftans In Panther Pack Anthony \\'ishinslii ('left) and Jaclt Prukop, co-captains of the Middlebury ( Vt.) Collt•ge football team which plays Lnion her!' t.J- mori'OW, are important cog,; in thf' i'anthers' line this season. Wish- inski is pla;ring right taclde, whi~e Prukop is holding down the important centl\r position. ------------------- Wittner, Ketz, Ciampa Lead Way As Masterminds Predict Winners· Those four sage football fore-~----- cas~ers ~t Alumni Gymnasium have I' North Carolina.'. Northwestern ovet' thetr third test of. the season to- Wisconsin, Pennsylvania over Yale, morrow af~ernoon m the fourteen , u. S. c. over Oregon. games which are a part of the 1 _ weekly Concordy Football Contest. 1 Lawrence -- Prmceton over Co- Thwugh last week, Hal Wittner, ; lumbia, Syracuse over Holy Cross, AI Ciampa and Bill Ketz led the j Dartmouth over Colgate, Coast quat·tet, all tied with fifteen cor- j Guard over R. P. I., Clemson over rect predictions in nineteen tri.es.l Boston Colleg.e, C~rr:ell over Har- Art Lawrence trailed them wtth vard, Texas ChriStian over In- twelve right, seven wrong. diana, 11arquette over Michigan Here arc this week's selections State, Hamilton o_ver Hobart, Min- < notice A! Ciampa 'way out on that I ne. s?ta over _ Ilhnots,. Fordha~ ove~ crack'n limb for dear old Colum- Not th Carohna, Notthwestetn ovet bial: 1 g · Wisconsin, Pennsylvania over Yale, , C 1 1 Oregon over U. S. C. \Vitt.~er--Prmceton over o urn- 1 bia, Syracuse over Holy Cross, co:- Iietz - Pl'incton over Columbia, gate ovet· Dartmouth, Coast Guard Holy Cross over Syracuse, Dart- ovet· l:t, P, I., Boston College over mouth over Colgate, Coast Guard Clemr:.on, Cornell over Harvard, ove: R. P. I., Boston College over Texas Christian over Indiana, t Clemson, Cornell over Harvard. Probable starting lineups for to- Michigan State over Marquette I Texas Christian over Indiana, .Mar- morrow's game: Hamilton over Hobart, Minnesota 1 quette over M~chigan, Hamilto~~ Union Pos. Middlt>bm•y over Illinois, Fordham over Nm th 1 over Hobart, Mtnnesota over Illt- McKennis ..... LE . . . . . . . . Pepin Carolina, Northwestern over vVis- nois, Fordham over North Caro- Adamzevich .. LT ... - Reumann consin, Pennsylvania over Yale, !ina, Northwestern over Wiscon- Goldblatt or u s. c. over Oregon. sin, Pennsylvania over Yale, U.S.C. Kayne ... , . . LG ......... Adsit . over Oregon. Baker or Jones .C,.,.,.... Prukop Ciampa- Columbia over Prince- --;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ Schulze . . . . . . RG .... Wishinski ton, Holy Cross over Syracuse, r; Hill . . . . . . . . . . R T .. _ ..... Harris Colgate over Dartmouth, Coast Hallenbeck , .. RE . , .. , Cosgrove Guard over R. P. L, Boston Col- Sharpe .. , . . . . Q B . . . . . . Colonna lege over Clemson, Cornell over Hillick or Harvard, Texas Christian over In- Enstice RH . . . . . Hollister diana, Marquette over Michigan Galuszka . . . . . LH ....... _ Urban State, Hamilton over Hobart Min- ffii' >'B Fle=l~ !\\:~~$:~:· ;::::;\ I X-RAY FITTING PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Narket Gl OUR MOTTO .. Quality - Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 152 Erie Blvd. Schenectady, N. Y. Fall Track to D. U.'s; Yearling Grid Cross-Country Teams , Juniors. Seniors I I . . I E t t T 1 In Football Finals n nlt1a ncoun ers omorrow ~- -,. Footballers at Middlebury: Delta Upsilon won the first major victory in the current Intramural· race thi:> week when the D. U.'ti swept to a 1 overwhelming victory in the Fa·H Tt•aclc Meet. Final point scores are as yet unavailable, but the standings· of the first three hou::>es is certain to remain when the final tabulations are made, ac- cording to Commissioner Ketz, who said that Psi Upsilon had taken runnerup honors, while Phi Gamma Delta squeezed out a third place over I of all peopleJ Alpha Delta Phi. Concordy Again Offers $20, Promising Harriers Meet 1wo Proctor's Pasteboards Canton State School Here Union's old rivals, the Juniors and Seniors, will clash for the in- terclass touch football title next Thursday. Both units are unbeaten and it shapes up as a great bat- tle. Joe Mudge and Bo'b Newton scor- ed touchdowns and Bob Panoff and Al Rasso rang up extra points yes- terday as the Seniors rolled over the freshmen to the tune of 14-0. The Juniol's topped the Sopho- mores by an identica·l score yester- day to remain unbeaten. They haven't lost a football game since entering college three years ago. \W·hitey\ Carn·wright scored both the Juniors' touchdowns. He inter- cepted a pass and galloped to one score and then tallied again as he took a short lob-pass over the line and taclced on a long run. Fred Wikoff and Walt Breed scored the extra points. Besides the Junior-Senior tilt, the Sophomores and Juniors will also tangle next Thursday. Intramural touch football scores follow: Phi Sigma Delta 6, Kappa Alpha 0; Theta Delta Chi 18, North College 0; Psi Upsilon 1, Neutrals 0 <forfeit); Phi Gamma Delta 7, Chi Psi 0; Kappa Nu 14, Phi Sigma Kappa 6; Delta Chi 13, Delta Phi 0; Sigma Chi 7, Phi Delta Theta O; Alpha Phi Delta 1, South College 0 <forfeit). In Third Football Contest If we coulu, we wouid . . but it just isn't practical fen \1:5 to come atound to your abode and collect y0ur entry for the Cuttcordy f0ot- ball contest. It's not such a long hike over to our mailbox on the fir:>t floor of Silliman Hall anc: thet·e·,; always that possibility that you may be rewarded with those two fine seats in Mr. Proctor's front row. Then, too, there is a $20 cash prize that's y0u1~ for the asking. Just pick the exact scores of all games listed be- low. Winner of the two tickets will be decided by an analysis of who picks most games correctly. In case of ties the prize will be award- eel: to the entrant picking the scores most correctly. Thus, it's to yom advantage to include these scores on your selections. Fran·k!in McKeever and Nick Morelli won the first two contests. You may be next. Here are the hot ones: Princeton ....... Colwn!Jia ...... . Syracuse , .... , , Holy Cross ..... . Dartmouth ...... Colgate ....... . R. P. I. ......... Coast Guard ... . Boston Col. . .... Clemson ....... . Harvard . , .. , , .. Cornell , ....... . Vermont ........ Colby .......... . Indiana . . . ..... Tex. Chris. Mich. State ..... Marquette ..... . Hamilton , ...... Hobart ........ . Illinois .......... Minnesota ..... . Fordham ........ N. Carolina .... . N'westeru ....... Wisconsin Pelli!sylvania ... Yale ...... , .... . So. Calif. . ....... Oregon ........ . Naine ............................ . Address ........................ , . WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY co. CORNER STATE and CENTER STREETS Twenty-five fre;;hman footballers leave the campus at 8:30 o'clock tornonow morning for Middlebury, Vt., where they'll open their four- game season against the Middle- bury freshmen. It's likely that the Middlebury neophytes will outweigh Union's operatives at neal'ly every posi- tion across the line. Last year the Middlebury freshmen nosed out Union's class of 1944 by 26-20 here. The year before Middlebury tri- umphed 26-6. This year Coach A! Ciampa is hopeful that his club can break the Panthers' two-game streak. \Champ\ will start Ed Bates and \Bud\ Taylor, ends; Hal Fox and Don Car~tens, tackles; Max Slee and \Hank\ Gorski, guards; Bob Mendelson, center, and Johnny Short, Bob Lange, Reggie Carroll and Bill Tunstall, backs. Bill Ketz's freshman Cross-Coun- try squad, led by a quartet of high- ly promising youngsters, entertains the Canton State School harriers in its first meet tomorrow after- noon. The contest is scheduled to finish between the halves of the varsity football game. Ketz's \Four Aces,\ Charley Gade, George Middlemiss, Ken White and Jim Quinl2n, are expected to give an excellent account of themselves, if their performances of this week are to be taken as a standard of judgment. Also making the trip and likely (Continued on Page 4) Hear •.. ARTIE SHAW'S New Band on VICTOR RECORDS Playing \Blues in the Night .. at Cluett & Sons 508 STATE ST. T£L£80X RESEARCH INC. H OW a heavy English bulldog and a brawny Irish washerwoman substan- tiated the findings of years of research is described with an order for fifty miles of Formex wire recently received by General Electric. The customer was considering the use of Formex wire as a substitute for wire whose insulation had rotted after two or three years of use, exposing the bare copper. The railroad's signal engineer was \from Missouri\ and wanted to see for himself whether Formex wire insulation could \take it.\ Two so-foot lengths were strung up. One was equipped with a metal ring, to which a bulldog was attached on a leash. The other became a washerwoman's clothesline. Several weeks later, after the bulldog had tugged against every inch of his wire and the washerwoman had pinched her wire with clothespins from end to end, the insulation of both lengths was still 111 perfect condition. W HEN Dame Nature goes to work on a television antenna with rain, sleet, and snow, she can cause no end of trans- mission trouble. G-E television engineers, however, cir- cumvent weather changes by housing the antenna withln an electrically heated box. This prevents seeping moisture from freez- ing on the antenna during cold weather and interfering with the normal patch of high-frequency current flow, ....,~~\\~- ~~i=~:f ---:2._ The antenna, at the top of a 128-foot transmitting tower in the heart of Sche- nectady, relays the picture waves to G.E.'s main transmitting station in the Helder- berg hills 12 miles away. On top of the box relaying the accompanying FM sound is another antenna which also acts as a lightning rod to protect the tower and re lay equipment. GENERALfjELECTRIC 95!1-25·311

.FRID·AY, OCTOBER 10, 1941 Colle.ge Programs On Air Tomorrow i Predict Tonight's Rally 'A Huge Success' Resume Town Meet.ing Following Short Lapse Broadcc:~sts Sunday Initial broadc-a~tR for thP <'lHTPnt season of three radio program se-~ ries sponsored by Union College wil'l go on thE' air f(aturrtay anrt Sunday from Station WGY, it h·as been announced by President Fox. With Police Clearing the Way T!u•rt- will bt- ad«o>quate pro- tt>ction along tht- line of mll.l'(•h to be talit-11 by thP Union Col- lpge rootN'S this :Friday night, acco•·diug· to Sch<>nt>('tatly l'o- licP Chief Joe Pt>tt,rs. Last l''!'i- da;y nig·ht, duP to a mbunlll}r- ,.,tanding bPtween thl.' chc!'r- leadeors and polin• dt>p:rrtmPnf, tht> police lt>ft befon· tlw [JaradP ,tartl•d. Garnet Key Ele~ts Hoffman President hichard F. Hoffman, '43, wa:s elected president of the Garnet Key i:'lociety for 1941-42 at .the iirst meeting of the year held in the Student Activities Office yesterday. Kenneth Sharpe, '43, was named Vice-Pr·esident, and Ronald Ma- comber, '43, secretary-treasurer. Robert Baker, '4:,:, president of last )'ear's. Garnet Key Society, eal'led the meeting and presided uuti.J Hoffma-n was elected. Baker pointed out to the members pr·es- ent tnat, although last year's so- ctety hall been macttve, there was mueh that t.ne Uarnet Key men .:OU!d do. As a means of beginning the years activities for the new group, .uaker suggested a joint meeting •vltn tue 1 en· ace Council, which GENERAL N. Y. A. Workers lContinued from Page 1) in classroom and labor-atory assist- ance projects which include 14 lab- oratory assistantships to help in prepa·ration of exhtbits, take care of ·stock rooms, catalogue exhibits, prepare solutions, anange displays and do gener•al laboratory work. ,~----------------------- Donald Houghton and Ra:lph Dres- sel. James Quinlan and Richard D. Coply will work in the publicity bureau with George Roberts, direc- tor. Lewis Dascundo will be campus maHman whHe Frank England,. James Billick and Thomas Vellis will supervise college parking. Whitridge Raymond wil'l assist in the college bookstore. -BEAT MIDDLEBURY- PhHomatheans (Continued from Page 1) CALENDAR Saturday 4 10 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Mem- orial Chapel, cheers and songs 2 p. m.~Varsity Football, Union vs. Middlebury, Alexander Field 2:30 p. m.-Freshman Crosscoun- try, Union vs. Canton State School at Schenectady. Union-Skidmore Freshman Party at Union-Meeting at Presi- dent's Home at 1:30 p. m.; .fiot- -ball game at 2 p. m.; tea dance in Hanna Hall; 4:30 to 6:30 p. m.; d-inner, Hale House, 7 p. m. danci·ng Hanna HaJ:l, 8:30 to 11. Alumni Representatives Dinner- Hale House, 5 p. m., followed by meeting in Old Chapel at 7 p.m. \The Intellectual Adventure,\ a new progt·am which succeed:; the \American Faith\ series given last year, wHl present as Us first offer- ing an address by Professo1· Wil- liam W. Bennett. chairman of the Field of Economics and co-Ol·dina- tor of student activities speal,ing Saturday, from 1:15 to 1:30 p.m., on \intellectual adventure\ in the studies and work of an economist. \Democratic Processes,\ an inter- collegiate series featuring speakers from several colleges and universi- ties, wiH also begin Saturday aft- ernoon, when Dr. Helen D. Lock- wood, professor of English at Vas- sar CoHege, wiH ,;peal< from 5:15 to 6:00 p m. Dr. Lockwood's work at Vassar has given emphasis to studies of publicity. propaganda, journalism in America and Europe, and social questions of public in- terest. Frt>shn1en ar<'- Hl~·uin to up- JJPal' in pajamas for th•• I\<rlly to lw ht>ld this F'rida~· night 1><•- fOl't' tht• 1\lilldlPlJUJ'~ ~anw, ac- cording to John BmJs, '.t!!, !wad chet>rlt•adt>r. Indic<ltiom. arP that this Wt'Pk':. mlly will bt' th€' largest Union has SPPn in many yt\ars. )'Hth tht- policP dP- partrnt>nt Plt--aring tho• wu~·. tht• protection for pn•ry unP of tht- 700 Union ·root<>I'-; who Ul'l' t•x- llPCted to be thPl'P h; guarun- tl't>d, Names Released For Skidmore Party . naB already ·begun an active pro- gram tor the nrst tirrie in many ~ ed.rS. L>aker and Hottman are at present 111aKing plans for such a JOiiH meeung tu taKe place in about two wee·ks. Laboratory assistants and the .professors they will aid are: Henry Weisheit with Professor Frederick C. Gi·over; Vincent PaUadino and Jack R Staley with Dr. Allan C. Scott; Richard SobeH, George Hup- man and Robert L. Newton with Dr. Peter I. Wold and the physics instructors; Walter J. Schulz with Dr. George H. Danton and the lan- guage professors; Frederick P. Schmelzer with Professor W. W. Bennett; Robert B. Baker with Henry Baker of the socia.J studies staff; Joseph Jaycox and .Charles Keeler with Professor EdwardS. C. Smith of the Geology Department; Donald John Douglas and Harvey Kayue with Dr. Charles B. Hurd; Andrew M. Anders~m and Frank Hasselbacher with Dr. Ernest M. Ligon; Robert Hallenbeck with Professor Benjamin WhHtaker; Bernard Haake with Dr. Douglas W. Campbell; Delphis Goldberg with Dr. Walter G. Langsam; Ar- mand Feigenbaum with Professor Harold F. Sylvester; William M. Daly with Professl!lr Ernest Dale; Charles Collesano with Professor Franldin Chillrud; and Donald F. Abood with Professor Frederick Bronner. ing seemed .pers12msive enough to give it a trial. Thus far the results have been ecouraging;\ Discussing the effect of the program, Mr. Rohmdo said, \Stu- dent interest has been stim1rlated on the subject, and discussion has taken place. The debates will be better in time, and the program is quite apparently serving its pur- pose. There is some crudeness evi- dent from lack of work on the sub~ ject. However, they are pretty good.\ Gift Fund Class Agents Dinner- Hale House 5 p. m. followed ,by meeting in Dr. Johnson's class- room at 7 p. m. Sunday 11 a. m. Sunday Service-Preach- er, Rev. Phillips E. Osgood, Boston Memorial Chapel. Broad- cast over WGY. \Empire State Town Meeting of the Air,\ an especially popular pl'o- gram which began four years ago, wiU be resumed Sunday afterneon, from 3:15 to 3:45. The broadcast will originate as u:oual frum the Old Chapel. The \En1pire State Town :'.1eet- ing\ topic for Sunday will be \Can Americans Be Both Free and United?\ to be dh;cu:osed by Ml'. John W. Hening, supervisor in adult education, New Yorl' State Education Department, and Mrs. Patrick J. Cat·ey, head of civilian defense work in Schenectady and city director of social studies. Fol- lowing prepared talks by the speak- ers, members of the audience will be free to squestiun them and thus contribute to the program. Dr. Fox will act as chairman. -BEAT MIDDLEBURY- Freshman Football, Cross Country Tomorrow !Continued from Page 3> to see action are Andy Anderson. Gerry Buyce, Rocco Calandruccio, Tom Flynn, Art Gilmore. Elton Harvey, Hank Hochuli, Johnny Ford. Joe Mann. John Mason, Dick Raymond, Dick Robsky, Lou Steege, and Thaddeus Ogonowski. Thul'sday brought smiles to the face uf their ml'ntor, furni\hing a bit of relief from his varsity wor· ries. The varsitv will be idiP to- morrow, re::ting 'from thPir c!Ph:H'lP last week at Vermont. New Fall DUN LAPS only $5a00 The second Union - Skidmore fl'eshman party gpt:; under way Saturday when fifty-five freshmen will entertain their guests at the Middlebury game, tanm•r at Hale Hou:;e, and a dance in Hanna Hall. Freshmen attend-ing the party are V\iilliam Bailey, ltobert Beale, Paul Beig-el, Don Blanlcs, Harold Bot·oson, Ptescott Bro\\'n, Richard Buchanan, Fred Budnik, Rocco Calandruccio, Leo Carpenter, Ed- ward Craig, Alden Dl•yo, Charle:; Dickson, William Eiscnun, Doug- las Everett. Raymond Finch. Peter !<'ina, Stt>phan Gi-lman, Arthur Gilmore. Paul Glicksman. Edward Harri-s. James HerbNt, Marshall Heyman, Eugene Hoke, Warren Kamm, Boris Kaufman, Robert Kl'nnedy, William Lasser, Alfred Lewis, Pete1· Martin, Chestet· Mar- vin, Douglas Maure, Bruce Mc- Hem·y, Dun McKenzie, Robert Mc- Voy, Alvin Meentt•meier, Albert :\1Hlet·, Borden Mills, Douglas Naehring, William 0 I d P n do r f. James Paris, Mauri PPlkonen, Vin- cent Picozzi, Fanand Prindle, Richard Robsky, John Ryan, Charles Shelly, Ganet Smith, Ed- ward Stetic, James Tracy. Henry TurnPr. Ralph Van Duzee, Thomas Walwol'th, and Robert Winne. -BEAT MIDDI.EB'LRY- H!Lildball Court Rules 1. Time Sheets at·e posted in the handball court room. 2. Playing periods fat· both singles and doubles will be limitNl to one- half hour. If the following pel iod is not en- ;;-aged, piny mnv f'ontinuP 3. P!ayPl'S may sign up 0;\11'~ clay in advan<'C' for· ONE p•riod ONLY I. Tl'RN OFF LIG-if n; \VHB~N FINI><HF.D PI .A Y.ll'ill Hats of all shades to match any outfit. Real collegiate bands ... with wide brim. Will hold shape in bad weather. Get them while they last! -BEAL' l'ldDDLEBURY- Tax Committee \Continued florn Page 1) granted the entire amount request- ed for travel at the hearings last spring. The supplementary appro- priation, 40 dollars, made Wednes- day will cover the co:ot of the cup and pat·t of the addttional travel money requested. The final request considered was from the International Relations Club, which had asked for an ap- PI opriation to cover the cost of bringing speakers to the campus, travel to conferences, and the ex- penses of a proposed symposium. The club, which had not been ac- tive for a number of years before last year, was given a grant of 30 dollars. To Assist in Surveying Five students who will assist in drawing plans, surveying, and mak- ing scientific charts and plate drawings, some for publication, are: George A. Bedell with Professor Leonard Clark; Harry Stevens with Professor Sylvester J. Haefner and Frederick W. Grover; Bernard E. Miller and Henry W. Hochuli, J1.·. with Robert Stanley; and Richard H. Marvin with Comptroller An- thony Hoadley. Daniel Witt will supervise the Carnegie record collection at the college under the direction of George B. Cummings, art lecturer. Edward S. Schulze and W. James Stillman will tune the Memorial Chapel organ and catalogue choir music under the direction of Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh. Dr. Bronner made the foi'lowing observations: \It seems that indi- vidual members are not equal in ability to talk. Some said very little; in time, they will do better. The others were quite good, and several of them stood out.\ Mr. Baker seemed very pleased with the results in genera:!. \A number of debates were very good. Others could be much better, but in time they will improve. This pro- gram gives students a chance to think things through, which they can't very well do in the classroom, and some unsuspected talents have been displayed.\ \The quality of the debatir.[· seems to be on the rise,\ Dr. Sylves- ter stated. \The debates were much better this week than last. The sub- ject has created interest, though not enough, on a problem which confronts and affects us all. It is so much better for the campus if some do take an interest in our problems of national defense.\ 4-5 p. m. Five Hund!'edth Organ Recital-Dr. E. A. Tidmarsh, Memorial Chapel 8:30 a. m. Baptist Youth Conven- tion-Memol'ial Chapel. Monday 4:30-Hygiene Class, Oil Chapel 7:30-Philomathean Society Meet- ing, Silliman Hall 7:30-Band Rehearsal, Gymnas- ium 7:30-Faculty Dinner, Hale House Tuesday 10 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Profes- sor Douglas W. Campbell, speaker, Memorial Chapel. 1 p. m. Outing Club-Executive Committee Meeting, Admissions Offi~e 7:45 p. m. Classical Club Meeting -Home of Professor George D. Kellogg, Professor Kellogg will read a Paper, Virgil's Epic Alt. 7:30 Newman Club Meeting-Silli- man Hall. -BEAT MITDDLEBURY- The money awarded the IRC was not made in the form of a direct appropriation, since this organiza- tion has not been recognized by the present Student Council. The IRC gained the right of petition to the Tax Committee from its for- mer status as a tax-supporteJ. ac- tivity. Since this status ended be- fore the various activities gained representation on the Student Council, the IRC will have to ap- pear before the Council for recog- nition before it can have a repre- sentative sit on that body. Three students appointed to take charge of the college Mountebanks Theatre under the direction of Gor- don Rust are Charles Lothridge, .;. -'BEAT J}IIDDLEBURY- Call Ball and Ball Will Call Be At Rally Tonight I PHONE 6-3456 How comfort was buih into an Arrow Shirt ARROW HULL $2 Arrow set out to make the most comfortable non-wilt collar a shirt could have. And they succeeded-by making the neckband low and by setting the collar on a slope. The shirt is called ARROW HULL-get it today. Wear it and see if it isn't superlatively kind to your neck. Sanforized-Shrunk, less than 1% fabric shrinkage. Scoop for Arrow! THE NEW ARROW HULL--cut on a new low slant to fit your neck and give your Adam's Apple plenty of bobbing space. Notice how the Hull collar follows the natural slant of your coat collar, so com- fortable you hardly know it's there! Made of fine white broadcloth, Mitoga cut to fit the torso. Get yours today, $2. Trim it with a new wrinkle-resistant Arrow tie, $1 and $1.50. I ' i i i I I ' a ( ( r r t I s t ~ c i I 1 s ( g c r v s L s t I t

4 em- p. .m. 11. by 7 by ass- ood, i r. I I I I I Meet • • No Sonny Dunham ts Classes November15 The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV. Number 10 p lwnes; •Editorial 4·0188 \Press 4-4141 SCI'IENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941 Price Sc: Dormitory Neutrals Form New Federation Sonny Band Is S.igned ------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~ Non-:Dorm.itory Men To Jo,in Group This Week 'Pyramid Council' to Aid In Promotion of Social, Recreational Activities No Salt, Much Rain, Copious Songs, Feature Union-Vassar Canoe Trip ------ -------~ By A. W. SANBORN The Outing Club opened its sea- son this past weekend with a joint canoe trip on Lake George with Ei~ghteen Seniors Given P~ositions By Local Schools Alumni Talk Over Current Problems Vassar College. This is a de- Practice Teachers To scription of this undertaking by the After viewing the football game Outing Club. First of all, ficticious Take Over Assignments on Saturday afternoon and ,eating names will be used entirely in this In Varied Courses Dormittoryf neub~~s last tight tr· g~~~~e !iu~:;lega~:e~~~ t~O d~~~~~ ~~~~~~r A~:ss~~e;~~<H~i~l t~e ~~iso~~ Assignments covering the prac- ganized 0 orm e nuc eus 0 a lutely coi'\ct\denta-1. t\ t h\ ·t· f t d t new independent federation, elect- current school problems. The fact The d•!\I.'v'e from Unt'on t\ Bol·ton rce eac mg post tons o s u en s · R b t B\shop '43 North Col that the meeting lasted from 6:30 v in Psychology 22 were made at a mg o · er 1 · • • - Land-I\ng the J\um.pi\ng of.f po1\nt t\ · th N tt T H\ h lege, Richard K. Watanabe, \43 to 9;45 st.owed that the former was made I·n reasona·ble time. Our mee mg tn e o errace tg and Michael Seppanen, '43, South ·Union Students had a .real interest ti•t\p up to the r\sla\d was much too School of both students and Sebe- c lie e and J ames McNulty '44 of in the meeting at hand. President •• nectady teachers last week. 0 g • · · ' ' calm and peaceful·, we won't even B f k\ th · t Old G Hall to the executive com Fox praised the work of the unit e ore rna mg · e assrgnmen s \tt ymto be kn. own as the Pyra. as a whole, and especially com- mention it. Having reached the the problems of practice teaching mt ee · - island-a distance of five mi'les- h M mid Council. mended those who gave scholar- the paddlers h·t\t the ground feelt\ng was discussed by t e group. any h d . ships. of the teachers expressed the opin- Named in continuity to t · e tra r-. as if they had paddled at least ion that they would like students tiona! neutral organization, the. At this time the board of trustees twenty-five. Those still capable pro- to be assigned to them in the Pyramid Club, which last week re- gave its report on the college and ceeded to set up the camp and pre- spring of the year so that they solved to disband and turn its ·the new faculty constitution was pare dinner. The dinner of ham- could start their observation at the treas1:1ry over to the new organiza- discussed. Frederick A. Wyatt, Di- b d t t ' urgers, peas, an po a oes was opening of the school year. One tion, the Pyramid Council will be rector of Admissions, spc.ke mainly minus the salt, which had been left teacher expressed the fear that stu- composed of one representative on the freshman class, stating that at Bolton's Landing. It carne in dents could not handle Regents from each dormitory and each geo- o1:1t of a number of 257 freshmen, shifts, as each course or part was classes, but the overwhelming rna- h . 1 ute group and 166 had alumni contacts before en- grap 1ca comm r t .· h 1 M W tt \d th t cooked, it was eaten and the next. jority thought they could. chairmen of committees represent- t~llng sc 00 · r3 35 ~ s~I .a delicious course was then prepared. Professor Chillrud pointed out ing all neutrals of each class. ere _were now umm repre- After dinner three loyal Union- the unusual opportunity the prac- Class committees will be elected sentatives scattered t~ro~ghout the ; ites who havino- heard what the tice teachers had in going into the latet· this week. Only class commit- co_untry who were still m contact ~dinner ,;,as to \be and who had Schenectady school system rather teeman elected last night was Wil- wtth the college.. Charles. A. Wald- stayed to witness that thriller be- than all having to teach in a jun- liam H. Hamilton, '45, who will r?n started this prachce . a~out tween Union and Middlebury, ar- ior or senior high school run by a represent Oldgym Hall in the fresh- etght year ago. The Adrmsswns rived on the scene singing their normal school. man class committee. Chairman Director also comrne?ted on . such latest accomplishment, by name, tt th te h q of mter Individual Assignments McNulty of Oldgym Hall also ap- ~a :rs as e c_ m ue - \l Know A Girl Named Dirty Lille.\ pointed Victor J. Christopher, '44, VJewmg new applicant~, and ~he Then follewed their complete reper- Bernard Haake will work with as athletic manager of Oldgym in- amount of personnel mformat~on toire of such famous songs as, .. 1 Mrs. Weeks in American History tramurals. on each boy. The. suggestwn Stuck My Head in a Little Skunk's at Nott Terrace, Jason Tepper with brought up of alumnt representa- Hole.. Mr. Osborne in American History Dormitories Act tives following the progJ'ess of their · at Nott Terrace, Glenn Bundy North and South Colleges voted boys through college. There was Correspondent Dozes with Mr. Rowe in European His- to install soft drink and candy dis- also a list of expenses at Union At this point your reporter picked tory at Nott Terrace, Vidor Dane- pensers in their dormitories and to comr.ared with the prices of other himself a likely spot on a neighbor- ski with Mr. Schwanker in Chem- use the proceeds in a newspaper .::!o1leges in the country. ing hillside and promptly went to istry, William Stone with Mrs. and magazine fund. All three dor- According to Mr. Wyatt the sleep. So ends the evening as far Reynolds in Math. at Nott Terrace, mitories decided to form steering ;>peech on the enthusiasm of the as you and I are concerned. Thomas Corrigan with Mr. Rey- committees with their Pyramid alumni was the keypolnt in the The next morning arrived, accom- iwlds in Math. at Nott Terrace and Council df>legnte n~ chairman, a~- meeting. Mr. Rubett Dennis uf the paniE'd by the gentle patter of rain- Robert Forrest with ~1iss Colin in sisted by the four delegates to class of 1912, whose son also ex- drops on the collective nose of the Math. at Nott Terrace. Class committees. pects to attend Union in a few group. Breakfast was an individual At Mont Pleasant High School-- The Pyramid Council plan of or- years, expzessed his views in this affait·, everyone cooked at least one Andrew Kay will work with Mr. ganization was presented to the matter. He said that the spirit of pancake, he for her, and her for he. Kelley in American History, Ed- dormitory groups as an outgrowth the alumni was one of the building One young Vassar creature, while ward Enstice with Mr. Delehanty of frequent conferences by former blocks of the school. sprucing up a bit, followed \Clem- in European History, Robert Rit- Pyramid Club officers and other The question of having more ath- entine\ and found herself stand- chie with Miss O'Connor in Eng- neutral leaders during the past two letes at Union was ·brought up In ing knee deep in water. Two of the !ish, Feliciano Gonzalez with Miss weeks. addition to the matter of geograph- three loyal Unionites, not to be out- Barrett in Spanish and Kurt For- The Council is expected to pro· ical distribution of students. Pro- done, promptly donned bathing kel has yet to be assigned a teacher mote social, recreational, and fessor Clark spoke on the stiff com- suits-fur lined-and took one there. health activities for the entire neu- petition which faced pre-medical quick plunge. Edgar Fisher, William C. Bird- Next, canoes were loaded, crews sal! and Charles Royce have been tral body while the class commit- students today, and Dr. Johnson tees will promote the welfare of discussed his relation with Am- were shuffled, and the flotilla set assigned to Draper High School. neutrals within the various classes herst. off back down the lake, heading for Solomon Blechman will work with adiing in sale of class dance tickets, ____ 0 ____ \Shelving Rock.\ Arriving below Mrs. Chamberlain in Social Studies etc., as well as giving continuity to d 1 h the \Rock the canoes were landed at Washington Irving Junior High, the Pyramid Council organizational 01 Schoo ouse and the group set out for a bit of Edward P. Fleigel will work at mountain climbing. After half an Oneida t\n Soci\al Studi\es and Har set up. Dormitory and commuter . - units wiU promote in tram urals and S. ·k .• I e rs. I Have n I hour of vigorous climbing the top old Hendrickson will teach English intra-group affairs. (Continued on Page 4.} in the same school. Among the events included in a prospectus of Pyramid Council so- cial activities are informal dances, coffee hours following football games, stag parties similar to last year's Proctor's Party, dances cur- ing college week ends, and spon- sot·ship of prom dance booths. One of the first investigations of the Council will be the possibility of a game and recreation room. The basements of Silliman Hall, Hale House, and South and North Col- leges as well as the old Mess Hall in back of the Chemistry building will be discussed soon with the ad- ministration as possible sites. A committee to translate student suggestions to the management of the Hale House kitchen and the Hale House reading matter commit- tee will also be appointed. The three dormitory groups meet- ing separately at hour intervals last night concurred in the belief that the neutrals at Union are not offered the normal social and rec- reational life that would have been a part of the Union tradition had not the fraternities satisfied this need for a large per centage of the student body. Consequently they called for organization by neutrals to fill this ned. William E. Moore, '42, former (Continued on Page 4) A questioning of the members of the Outing Club has revealed that although the group has lost its cabin at North River due to the fire during the picnic of the Fac- ulty Ladies' Club, plans for an ac- tive season are being made and will be carried out. There will be a meeting of the Executive Com- mittee of the Outing Club tomor- row at one o'clock to discuss the possibility of building a new cabin to replace \Skihaben\. However, until this has been accomplished, the club will put into use the old schoolhouse, which is situated near the spot where the cabin stood. Most of the money used to build the old Outing Club quarters was received as a gift from the Grad- uate Council and through a cabin tax placed on the members of the club. The improvements on the structure were made by the mem- bers themselves. Mrs. Dixon Ryan Fox, when ap- proached on the subject, stated that as yet no action had been taken .by the Faculty Ladies' Club. Mrs. Fox said that action depended on the results of the insurance col- lected through the loss of the cabin. After the new cabin is com- pleted the ladies will hold a num- ber of functions in order to raise money to furnish the building. Mass Pilgrimage to Hamilton Nov. 15 Pledged by 300; Classes Suspended Victories or no victories, Union men are still very solidly behind their football team. For the past two weeks, the Terrace Council has been con- ducting an unpublicized, but steady drive to sell tickets for the traditional Union-Hamilton game, which will be played at Clinton Nov. 15 this year. The Cou-ncil announced this morning that it has already sold 296 tickets at $.50 apiece. These tickets, which are on sale at the gymnasium, have ordinarily been sold for at least $1. They are $1.65 to outsiders. In view of the unexpected enthusiasm and interest shown in the game by the student body, Dean Charles F. F. Garis announced last night that classes will be suspended to allow students to make the trip. Buses will be run for students unable to find rides. The cost of the bus trip will be $1.50 for a 180-mile trip. Fifteen fraternity houses have agreed not to serve noon or supper meals on the day of the game. Instead they will crE;dit their members each with a $.50 rebate and have writ- ten checks to Mr. Wittner covering this amount. The money will be used for tickets to the game. Most houses have pledged 100 per cent attendance at the game. Ticket salesmen will ,solicit dormitory residents at their rooms tonight For Gridiron Ball U BS to Play His Music T o·morrow; Fraternity Houses to Hear Records Sonny Dunham and his orchestra have been signed to pro- vide the music fm· the 1941 Gridiron Ball on November 7, Frederick Wikoff, '43, chairman of the dance committee, an- nounced last night. Confirmation of the o1·chestra's accept- ance of terms was received by telegram on Friday, and the contract was signed yesterday. --------~---------,---------~<b The announcement was made of- Annual Cane Rush Set For Saturda·y Freshman-Sophomore Duels To Be Conducted Entirely By Orientation Committee The third annual Freshman- Sophomore Cane Rus·h will be held Saturday afternoon at 1:30, on Council Field, Andrew E. Reilly, '42, announced yesterday. The Rush will follow the same order of pro- cedure as in other years, Reilly said, and will immediately be fol- lowed by a tug-of-war over the College Brook. The Freshman Class, only recent- ly organized, will be enlightened as to rules of the contest during this week, according to present plan~, while it is assumed that the Clads of '44 already is familiar with the rules of the custom that originated back in 1939, when the Freshmen, the class of 1943, defeated their sophomore opponents in the Cane Rush, then were defeated and pulled across the College Brook in the ensuing tug-of-war, over the \Brook that Bounds.\ Freshmen have been decis·ive winners in the other two contests, but President John Clowe of the Sophomore ·Class indicated last night that he and the class behind him were determined to uphold the honor of the class and break vio- lently with tradition. Reilly indicated that the affair will be run almost solely by the newly-formed Orientation Commit- tee, with the help of some uf the members of the faculty as officials and judges. Heretofore, Bill Ketz has been the chief \extra man'\ on the field, but his absence next week end from the campus makes this impossible this year. -----a----- Tonight's Debates League 1 7:15--Kappa Nu vs. South Col- lege at Silliman Hall, 8:15--Delta Pbi at Delta Up- silon. 9:15-Alplm Delta Phi !lit Theta Delta Chi. League 2 7:15--Sigma Chi at Chi Psi. 8:15--Phi Gamma Delta at Kap- pa Alpha.. 9:15--Kappa Sigma at Delta Chi. League 3 7:15--Alpha. Phi Delta at Sig- ma Phi. 8:15--Psi Upsilon at Phi Sigma Kappa. 9:15--Phi Delta Theta at Phi Sigma Delta. Freshman Record to Appear In the Near Future The 1945 edition of the Freshman Record will soon be ready for dis- tribution, Philip Lanrdy, '42, editor said today. Both the picture cuts and the material on each freshman is at the printer, \The Burlington Free Press.\ This year's Freshman Record will differ from copies of former years in that it will probably have a paper cover. A budget cut necessi· tated the cut in expenses of the Record. Listed as usual will be the names and pre-college record of every freshman and transfet· student along with their pictur.es. ficially at last ·night\s Interfratern- ity Council meeting, when the coun~ cil, as sponsors of the dance, set pletion of plans for the dance. Characterizing Dunham as \one the machinery in motion for com- of the country's fastest nsmg bands\ Wikoff ·expressed great .pleasure at Dunham's acceptance of the contract terms. The council made its offer to Dunham early last week, after Charles Stiles, '42, publicity chair- man of the dance, ·had heard the band play at a dance in North Adams, Mass. Stiles, although de- sirous of expressing superlative praise in his role of publicity chair- man, insisted that he was being conservative when he called the band \good\. Price Remains Same The cost of bids for the dance, as in former years, will be three dol- lars, plus tax. Booths, which are be- ing sold for 15 dollars, have been contracted for by all but two of the fraternities, Stiles said last night. The dance, annually the highspot of the fall social season, will, as in other years, be held between 10 p. m. and 3 a. m. on Friday evening of the \Interfraternity Weekend\'. It will precede the last home foot- ball game of the year, the Roches- ter game, and the usual array of fraternity dances on Saturday. In order to help newcomers to Dunham's bevy .of followers to be- come better acquainted with the band, the Union Broadcasting Sys- tem will devote two fifteen minute programs tomorrow exclusively to his music. They will be heard at 5:15 and 7:30 p. m. At the same time, it was an- nounced that the dance committee will send representatives to each of the fraternity houses armed with a selection of Dunham recordings, as a further means of spreading the popularity of his music. Tickets on Sale Monday Tickets for the dance will prob- ably go on sale next Monday, Wi- koff said after last night's meeting. Although he was not able to say whether the tickets would be ready by that date, Wikoff said that stu- dent:;; could begin payment for the bids at that time. The sale will be under the direction Of Benjamin Leland, '42, treasurer of the council'. The Interfraternity Council Repre- sentatives will act as ticket sales- men in the fra:ternities, with a number of prominent neutrals whose names will be announced later this week, acting as salesmen among the non-fraternity men. Commenting on the band, Wikoff said, \It's terrific. We've really got a great band, a strictly college out- fit composed entirely of young mu- sicians. The band is really on its ways up, and I think it's definitely one of the fastest rising bands in the country. We were very lucky to get him for the dance. And you can tell everyone that if he hasn't heard about the band yet, he will before very long\. ------0------ 'Aiumni Monthly' Out Next Week D. Richard Weeks, '28, Editor of the Alumni Monthly, said yesterday that the first issue of the publica- tion would •be off' the press early next week. ·, Editor Weeks also announced that there are no changee in the staff of the 'Monthly'. This issue will feature an article by Dr. Gor- don R. Silber, on Dr. Morton C~ Stewart, who retired from the fac- ulty this year.

m~t O!nttt.df~tf11.8iJ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941 EDITORIAL 2 S C ENE Doctor Stubing Vacations In M~xico Member of the Associated Colleg:iate Press and dis- tributor of the Collegiate Digest. Represented for ~ational Advertising by ~atwual Adv.erti:;ing Sen·- ice, Inc., College Publish- ers Hepresentatlve, 420 :\ladisun Avenue, :\e\\ Yori' City. <l1nnrnr ~irnsis Editorial Office. Silliman Hall, Union College. Pub- l!cation Office. The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. b:ntered in the l:iohenec- tarly Post Office as Sec- ond Class :.\lail :.\latter. Subscnption 5c a copy; $3 year; delivered anywhere 1n the United States. A~~! ~~:tee, ex-'43, a draftel' in Studying Language, People, Customs Uncle Sam's Army was back for a By JACK SCHULZ • ;.isit over the weelmnd. He loolted \Foreign\ wars have finally done agree that superiority lies in an \.-1 Causa Persa Parole .lssai\ ~ue, his rudy face set off by his it. \See the Americas first,\ is now Ar:y, ·an race. 3. The United States mlve drab uniform gavl' him a sol- dierly beaJ·ing. In spite of all the ·both a patr-iotic and a popular per- having initiated a new foreign pol- Senior noard Armn.nd v. Feigenbaum ................... Kappa Xu House-4-7331 ........................... ·Edlt.oF·in·Chlef Jubtln Perlstdn ........................... Kappa Xu Hou:;e-4-7331 ............... : .. , ..... Business .Manager tall formance, as Dr. Chat·Jes Stubi-ng, icy based on justice and reciprocal f · • 1 ~~out army tailors hi>; uni- inst-ructor of Spanish and German respect of all peoples, Mexico must o~m ul ttted perfectly. who spent three months in Mexico not evoke grievances of the past to Solomon Blechman , , , , .... , . . . . . . . 15 :\l'iddie Sel'tion, !\orth Ccllege-G-9966 •.............•... Managing Editor JonatJ 11111 Penrson , . , ... , , . , , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sigma Phi Pl::tce-4-68~1 ............................. Sports Editor samuel Portnoy ........................... J,:appa :\'u Hou.se-4-7331 .......................... Associate Editor Junior noard-Hobt>rt Hayn~r. Thomas O'Oonnor, Har- vey Fishbon<', Jack Schulz. Granger Tripp. ::-<orman Fox, Staff Photographer. n uslne\ Staff- ~tel ville Messenger, Da vjd Rosen-blum, :\larYin Cramer. lil a. t says he doesn't 'specially City this summer, discovered from oppose the solidarity of the con- te he Army. He wishes be could having to rub elbows with numer- tinent. The destinies of North ~e ?ack here at Union. At present ous Americans there, d·espite his at- America and of any country within S.: : still at the reception et•nte:t tendance at a purely Mexican its boundaries must be regarded as · ort Dix, sleeping, eating and school, \La Univers.ida Obrera\ and one.\ loafing and earning $·15 a n~(\nth. despite his attempt to \suit action !SopiiOlllOl'l.' Board-Thomas Cullen, William. Hart, Al- bert Kronick, Edward Juhn~on, Seymour Tluckman. Issue .Editor .... ,, ......•... , .. , ........ HObHt Hayner ~ Tuesday, October 14, 1941 RENAISSANCE OF THE 40% Many small colleges, termed \solid frater- nity campuses\ support significant non-fra- temity organizations. These colleges possess buildings, more beautiful than the houses of the more affluent fraternities, which are neutral owned and maintained. Why can't Union, forty percent of whose student body is non-fraternity, support a neutral org·anization? The answer today is the same one that has always obtained: Union can suppo1't a neutral organization; Union can have a meeting place for its neutrals. That Union has had none of these advan- tages in the past may, in great measure, be attributed to the apathy of the non-frater- nity men themselves. They have apparently never been sufficiently interested in an or- ganization or in a meeting place to work for either or both. We may now be in the beginning of a new era. Neutrals are apparently beginning to realize how much they need an organization through which social functions may be de- veloped and promoted; they are beg·inning to realize just how much they are losing by not having a game and lounging room. Symbolic of this rebirth of interest is the meeting which was held last night-the first important neutral action in years. Non-fra- ternity men in Union's dormitories have de- cided to form an organization of their own. Planning realistically on the basis of things to be done, they established both a small Executive Committee, to be termed the Pyramid Council, and a series of class com- mittees. The Pyramid Council is to admin- ister neutral policy, the class committees to promote class activities. The new organization is to be developed for the purpose of \promoting social, recre- ational, and health activities for the entire neutral body.\ Within that broad termin- ology may be found apparatus for righting all past neutral wrongs-the development of social functions, the pursuit of details impor- tant to the convenience and comfort of the non-fraternity men, and the investigation of a neutral lounging and game room. While the importance of the events of last nig-ht must not be minimized, it must yet be pointed out that neutrals may scarcely feel that their job, or any portion of it is done. There is some reason for the non-fraternity men who have begun this action to feel in their own minds that the neutrals have shown the campus that they are interested in their own welfare; but there is a great deal to be accomplished before \promotion of the social, recreational, and health affairs of the entire neutral body\ may go into ef- fective operation. l\loves for a general neutral organization must be supported by the off-campus non- fraternity men. l\Ieetings for this purpose have been proposed for the next week. Whether off-campus neutrals will take up the initiative in the first real non-fraternity drive in modern Union history, is the ques- tion of the moment. Upon the support of these men will rest much of the future open- ing hitherto undeveloped advantage to 405{- of the Union student body. PATTERSON, '12 \One day near the end of July, 1940,\ we are told in Current Biography, \a square shouldered, upright, slender buck private was doing kitchen police duty at the Busi- ness and Professional i\len's Training Camp in Plattsburg, New York. But he was inter- rupted; told to lay down his paring- knife and assume the duties of Assistant Secretary of War.\ To students here that tale is more than a sag-a of the way that America's citizen army is recruited. It is the current chapter in the story of a capable, quiet man, which began thirty-three years ago on this campus when Robert P. Patterson entered as a member of the class of 1912. Union's most distinguished alumnus in the service of the nation wound a long trail be- fore being named to the post he now holds. He received his Law degree from Harvard, served in France during the war and then took up a law practice which was culminated by his appointment as a judg-e of the United States District Court. Robert Patterson, '12, retained, at all times, the interest the college from which he graduated, that every undergraduate vows to show after he takes his degree. We are proud of thls man who has been characterized by Washington correspondentB as \one than whom there is no government official more honest nor so thoroughly a man of integrity.\ THE ECONOMY OF COOPERATION Union fraternities are being forced to change their financial policies to meet the challenge of the defense price spiral. Fra- ternity incomes are little different today than they have been at any time in the past; the costs that they must bear have risen tre- mendously. Different fraternities have adopted differ- ent alternatives to solve the problem: Some have dipped into house reserves, others have increased room and board charges. All houses have attempted purchase Union fmternities have yet ignored one of the most important means through which economies, \vhich have been successful inso- far as the actions of any single fraternity may be successful. economies may be effected: community buy- ing, or community cooperation by means of a reg·ular exchange of price lists. Prices of such staples as eg-g-s vary as much as eleven cents in different houses. Bacon varies up to ~ix cents a pound, butte1· four cents, and steak fifteen cents. Differ- ence in quality, insofar as this newspaper's investigators could ascertain, did in no way explain this amazing variation in prices. Fraternities on this campus will do well to consider community cooperation as a means for effecting sweeping economies. FOOTBALL FUTURE Union's football team has not yet been able to score, or to gain a vi«;tory. Yet over three hundred men have already signed up for tickets to the last game of the season, away at Hamilton. We lihe this place. He has bee th f th This encourag~ng attitude must · n ere or 1nore · an· to the clime\ and live like any seve-n k d' h' t not make Americans forget, Dr. wep s .peon Ing lS :wc<'p • respectful Mexican. No doubt he ance 1'11to tl A AI c H Stubing reminds us, that our ~e rmy 1' m·ps. · e could have explained ever,1:hing didn 't k h th h · ' neighbors to the south are Latins now w e er 1)1' nut e ft·om politics and Mexican dishes would g4t · \M k ' with a primitive if workable philos- , tn. .Y mar s werc-n t to occupations and food after three too good h \ h 'd oph\ of li-fe as suited to their own ere, e sal · weeks in the countrv, but he stayed ' He repo t d · · t ' personalities as dollar diplomacy r e runmng 1n o a num- too long. In twelve weel~s he Jea·rned b f U · · h · and industrial methods are to ours. er o mon men m t e serviCe, that Mexico defies definition by ment' · L M c t' '4'J The Indians especially with their wnmg eo c ar ny, ex- ~, 2'Uidebook and offers infinitely and Ed F't '40 - simple occupations have more in 1 z, · more of interest than meets a mere common with fisher folk of Can- Fire tourist's eye. ada, cattlemen of our southern Timely Comment plains, and farmers or miners here There are plenty of garbled re- · 1 than with industrialists of Mexico ports circulating around the cam- In view of the present natwna pus about that North Creel' fire. publicity given to Pan-American or -the United States. The large Mrs. Langsam denies that she ever Week in countless schools and col- scale exploitation of the Mexican 1 g hl .ch I'nclu\es pr·ograms at India:n which has made him a beast tried to put the fire out by empty- e es w '-\ · ing a bottle of ginger ale on the R. P. I. and Russell Sage and Mrs. of burden and a servile drudge is blaze. The Albany Times-Union on Rosevelt's planned talk in Troy, decreasing, but as Dr. Stubing Sunday said that \The Union Col- Dr. Stubing's comments are par- pointed out, \The Mexican people lege Faculty Club\ starteu the fire. ticularly timely, and constitute have been enslaved for so many The Times-Union article dwelt Union's unofficial celebration of centuries by their own and foreign heavily on the number 13, pointing the event. Appropriately enough, masters that their response to im- out that there were 1 3 in attend- his most outstanding impression proved conditions will necessarily ance and 13 letters to the word was provided ·by Mexico's new lib- be slow.\ Concordiensis, old copies of which eralized educational system, which As the American economist, Stu- were used as kindling. is based upon ideals of liberty and , a1 t Chase, has said: \Mexican In- freedom through widening oppor- dians have never been educated in tunities for study. Dr. :Stubing's :he philosophy of acquisition. The fellow students at the Univet·sity rise of the Joneses leaves them commonly studied in mechanics' .cold. Their wantlessness is the jumpers and other work attire, but despair of travelling salesmen.\ In their intent to t:1imt abstract!,> Dr. Stubing's opinion, this disin- for the first time in their live~ terested attitude is due to the Jack made them in Dr. Stubing's opin- 'of either time or money required ion, \earnest if not facile college for consumption of lwcuries sold men with a stronger desire to learn 'by American merchants. Merely be- English and to understand Ameri- cause they are not money con- cans than students here show to- Jcious, the Indians have therefore ward Mexico. We know nwre about wquired the reputation of being insignificant European states than lazy and improvident. To call them we do of Mexico,-which surpasse::: discouraged and overworked would Beds Ever noticed the six iron beds on the upstairs Alpha Delta Phi porch? According to Howells Coffin, who claims that sleeping out of doors is an old Alpha Delt custom, Ken Ralph spent the whole of last wm- ter sleeping there without missing a night. Dick Raymond, who ha~ been sleeping out there the last few weeks, says they're dry be- cause the rain usually tloesn't come in that far. But after the recent soaking rains the beds have been a bit damp. How many other Union men would sleep out of doors during the winter? Few, .iudging by the num- ber of dorm windows fully 6Jlen these cold nights. Freshman Party Unusual things sometimes come of blind dates. Pres. Brown's din- ner partner at Saturday's fresh- man party, for instance, with whom he had to dance afterwardr-a girl who stood 6' 3\. Dr. and Mrs. Fox joined in the dancing while the group was play- ing an elimination game witL1 a football. The object was to pass the ball around, the couple holding it when the music stopped was to leave the floor. The Foxes were among the last to be eliminated from the floor. The Hale House waiters wen· invited to join the party. Earlier, while serving dinner, they had ap- peared with their complPW n:unPs, their fraternity or dorm and phonP nwnbers on their jacltPts. How many of the girls copied tht• handy information down has yet to be as- certained. This dance featured an unusual amount of changes and allowed cut- ting in. Certainly to be encouraged, the frequent changes permitted the whole crowd to become better ac- quainted. The shoe dance was re- versed slightly, the boys threw their shoes into a pile in th~ middle of the floor and the girls pad to hunt out the foot that the shoe fitted on. And the boys wet·e a good deal shier about thmwing their shoes into the center of thl' floor than were the girls. Last week the \julte box\ could hardly contain itself, blaring forth its mechanical tunes so ioudly that the dancers were driven away from the front of Hanna Hall. This week the \juke box\ whispered until the repair men set it aright. Mrs. Fox claims that it is still a definite im- provement over the orchestra the college used to get for the dances. In Error Our contemporary newspaper to the north, the well written, well edited \Skidmore News,\ slipped up a bit last week headlining one story \42 Gets Their Bibs.\ Miss Collins. of the Skidmore Dean's Office, reports that when the paper reached Skidmore Hall thPre was a gPn<'rnl <'Ommotion Finally word was· sent down to her to please say \Grace\ in the din- ing hall without the seniors. Mysti- fied, she and the rest of the faculty abeyed. Then the seniors marched in-all wearing their bibs.* Incidental Intelligence James McNulty, '44, and Bob La- Pann, '44, inseparable companions, ·pointed out to us the other dav that 1945 had a Bob McNulty and a James LaPann, no relations. They wondered if the other two were also chummy. The election of Edward Bates to head the freshman class might be the start of a political career. If Canada in population,\ he added. be far closer to the truth! Much of America's \knowledge of Mexico has been saturated all too often with .petroleum confisca- tion news, and similar dignitie5. Recurring trouble with Mexico's \black gold\ has, according to Dr. Stubing, unnecessarily strained both our social and economic rela- tions. Of this friction he said: Foreign Interest Great \The history of the Mexican peo- ple has been very strongly influ enced by a struggle on the part of foreign interests for control of the petroleum industry. Certain Ameri- can groups have acted in the past not always to the advantage of the Mexicans. The result has been a sad and disturbing stigma. Even now, however, the results of for- eign exploitations cannot be elim- inated overnight. Only by long con- tinued application of practical friendship can the two countries develop real co-operation and mu- tual respect.\ Dr. Stubing pointed out the grati- fying and established fact that the present Mexican government is with the United States solidly on continental solidarity and foreign policy. A report of the Mexican Senate of last spring summarized this attitude in three points: \1 Countries lilte Mexico which has never been a military power can never applaud acts of aggres- sion upon other similarly consti- tuted independent states. 2. Mex- ico's people being composed main- ly of mestizos !mixture of Spanish and Indian racesl, we can never Lack Industries A serious liefect of the Mexican economic system is, Dr. Stubing contin,ued, that aside from rail- roads, mines, and oil fields-for- eign holdings all,-there are no heavy industries. Personalized and haphazard production is the mode. Hand workmanship which is done today as yesterday as two centuries ago has resulted in a Mexican maze of exquisite and equally often,-in- excusa·ble products or junk sold as curiosities only. Even a beautiful inlaid hand chocolate beater is not so useful in an American society which supports mail order houses advertising some 30,000 household items which Mexicans have not had the foresignt to copy or improve. Planned and supervised production based on both buyer and seller needs more or less consistent with Ia ws of supply and demand are vital necessities. With such modern innovations, many a picturesque town where a wheel has· never turned and where dogs sleep com- placently in the streets will lose its old world atmosphere. The gain will be worth the sacrifice however, if the natives finally rise above the early Indians who, when wheel- barrows were introduced on a rail- road construction job, removed the wheels and carried the barrows on their baclts. Technical progress is slowly gain- ing popularity in the sleepiest places, it must be admitted, how- ever. memory serves us right, Edward I that he is sorry, the Kap house Bates was Attorney General in i hAsn't the faGilitioes to feed them Lincoln's cabinet. all. 18 for Dinner Last night Joe Quinn invites one Chi Psi to dinner at the Kap lodge. The Chi Psi misunderstands and thinks that Quinn has invited the Chi Psi house to dinner. Six o'clock and the Kap living room looks like a convention hall. Quinn faints on the stairs when he sees the mob and Aldrich tells them Finally the Chi Psis leave. A new way to cut the board bill? Sounds practical. Invite yourself for dinner. Try it in Hale House. •Hob Hi><hr.p t.eil>< u;.~ that he o!o.-\n't tttHletstnnd the ~ignffi<'aiH~e of the h;h~ ur tiH· hf-'adlmt->. Tu the uninitiated hihs a.rr- to ~kidrr,ore- ?.~ F'reshmen Ca11~ are to l\nion. '4:! Ski,lmcq·e Hih~ we-re '\.hor- ··irl thin~~ ·•f hlnd< nr hlut- on bright yt>llcnv.\ Sntnt\t.h ing li l\.e a lic·t>Hf:e plntP, no rtoubt. CLEANERS AND TAILORS UNITED SHOE REBUILDERS 114 State St. (Have Your Repre-se-ntative Call Us) Phone 4-56i6 For \Better Milk\ Try Us Ow· Supply Comes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modem Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING•s DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroeclc St., Scotia, N. Y. Phone 6-7758 I ( B tin ha' me AlE dif wh tha the '] de I aw ing be vai tor c age for ciro rna ing nm the 1 on yai boc one ma dm 15 ter on 1 yar wh< na atto low F tha ven sec· er : cen licll Mic \RE by net pie1 Uni pur. the stn tea1 call clip N run Uni on he cov pla~ Url: Pe~ cat1 s, 8 26 f I 5

s is le ly u- n- in m n- n- re ne as ad on m- its on in- est em ew 3 SPORTS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941 Olqt (ttnntnrbitU!ilS Middlebury Claw~ _D_ut_ch~men,. 6-0,. In Ragge._d __ G_am_e Garnet Threatens Three Times Frosh Harriers Trounce Canton But Again lacks Scoring Punch Hillick_;Piatt Pass Misses by Two Yards In Final Moments UNION-MIDDLEBURY STATISTICS u M Quinlan Finishes First As Yearlings Triumph, 17·38, in Opening Meet First downs.............. 9 7 Brightest spot in an otherwise Given an hour more of playing drab week-end for Union was the time, Union's football team might Net yds. gained rushing. · 184 123 freshman cross-country team's con- have gotten around to beating a Passes attempted ........ 11 12 vincing 17-38 victory over Canton mediocre Middlebury eleven on State school in its opening run. Alexander field Saturday. The only Passes completed........ 4 2 Lowest score wins in CI'OSs-coun- difficulty was that the Dutchmen try. Points are awarded to the first who were slightly more mediocre Net yds. gained passing· · 35 20 10 men, according to the order of than the Panthers, threw away all No. of punts ............ 10 10 finish, the first man receiving one their chances and lost, 6-0. point, the second· two, and so on. Time ran out 0n the Garnet gl'id- Ave. dist. pu:hts .......... 28 33 I Jim Quinlan broke the tape for ders just after they had fiddled I Union. He negotiated the three-mile away their third and last big scar- Runbacl• of punts, course in the respectable time of ing opportunity. Thus they had to 70 55 '16:15.8. Coach Bill Ketz hopes to b t . f' d \th t t' t• a! ad ldclwffs (yds.) ........ . e sa 1s 1e Wl a s a IS 1c ·- get him below the 16 minute mark vantage instead of their first vic- before the season ends. tory of the season. . C , f\ t f' · h d · Middlebury once again. Hollister anton s 1rs man m1s · e m Outgain Panthers pitched a strike to Urban, who was fifth place. He followed Quinlan, Once again Union piled up yard- 1 in the clear on Union's two-yard I George Middlemiss, Ken White and age which would have accounted line. The only trouble this time was Bob Beale, who finished closely for two touchdowns under ordinary that Urban hadn't noticed that he bunched in that order for the Ketz- circumstances. The Dutchmen was standing out-of-bounds. men. Charley Gade, another lad made a net gain of 184 yards rush- The handful of Middlebury root- who would ordinarily be near the ing to 123 for Middlebury and gar- ers didn't have much to yell about front for Union, sprained his ankle nered nine first downs to seven for in the second half. Their team was going through the swamp and fin- the Panthers. held to a net gain of only 10 yards. ished eleventh out of nineteen run- Middlebury's touchdown followed Union controlled the play almost ners. on the heels of a well-aimed 34• exclusively. Middlebury was able to Coach Ketz said yesterday that yard punt by Hal Hollister. This attempt only 14 running or passing he expected Gade to return to ac- boot went out of bounds on Union's plays during the second half ... tion for practice later this week. one-yard line and forced Lee Sher- four of them in the l~t quarter. Though a painful injury, the sprain man to punt out of danger on first Besides driving to the Middlebury did not swell greatly. Trainer Ed down. Jack Urban ran the ball back 22 in the first quarter, Union Fitz had Gade's leg in the \tub\ 15 yards to Union's 30 and Hollis- threatened twice in the last period, yesterday. ter made 15 yards around left end getting inside the 10-yard line both on the first play. times. Del-hi Next Week The winning score was a nine- . . k illi Cli k ' · yard run off left end by Urban, Hillic ' K an c . I . Next. me~tthfoDr tlhhe; ySetartlmg hhari who took the ball from Vic Colon- \Red'' Killian and Sherry H1!- r1ers IS WI e 1 a e sc oo na on a reverse. Urban's placekick I lick le~ the last quarter fl~rry. On 1 here next Wedn~sday. Summary of attempt for the extra point was one dnve the Dutchmen p1cked up II the Canton meet. low. 67 yards and five fil·st downs in six Quinlan, ( U), first, 16:15.8; Mid- Middlebury Misses I plays. Billick went 17 yards off dlemiss, <U), second, 16:36; White, right end. Killian made seven (U), third, 16:46; Bealt, (U), 16:49; around left. Hillick picked up an- Golden, <C), fifth, 16:52; Drummond other nine around left, and Killian <C>, sixth, 16:54; Eger, <U), sev- made 24 as he pirroutted around enth, 16:58; Crookes, <C), eighth, left. This offensive, with the aid of 17:02; Garlough, C), ninth, 17:05; two offside penalties, put the ball Taylor, <C>, tenth, 17:22; Kamm, on Middlebury's 11-yard line, with <U), eleventh, 17:32; Gade, <U), first down. Here the attack stalled. eleventh, 17:32; Rosenkranz, (U), With two minutes remaining in thirteenth, 17:36; Trudeau, <C), the game Union started its final fourteenth, 17:40; Marne, <U>, !if- unsuccessful bid for a score. Going teenth, 17:54; Howaneitz, <C>, six- from its own 44 in eight plays, teenth, 18:04; Mann, (U), seven- Union drove to Middlebury's 20. teenth, 18:30; Morton, <U>, eigh- Then a five-yard penalty and two teenth, 18:31; Buhrmaster, <U), incomplete passes, one of which nineteenth, 18:51. ---0--- FiJi Gridders Win Final Game Unbeaten Phi Gamma Delta rolled out a 12-0 victory over Phi Sigma Delta yesterday to finish the regular season with a perfect rec- ord. Art Torrey and Frankie Eng- land did the scoring. Delta Upsilon had a close call, but also managed to stay in the l:mbeaten column as it came from behind to beat Psi Upsilon's fast- stepping club, 15-12. The Psiclones thought for a moment that victory would be theirs. With three minutes to play they were ahead, 12-8. Then the D. U. powerhouse put on one of its unstoppable rallies to stave off its initial defeat. Bob Bartlett and Bob Hayner scored touchdowns for D. U. and Hayner converted after the second score. Bartlett also contributed a safety. Kappa Nu shut out Alpha Phi Delta, 12-0, and Chi Psi took a 1-0 forfeit victory from Phi Delta The- ta in yesterday's other games. This Week's Schedule Tomorrow-Beta Theta Pi vs. Neutrals, south end, Library field; Alpha Delta Phi vs. Chi Psi, north end, Library field; Kappa Sigma vs. Kappa Nu, south end, Council field. Thursday-Seniors vs. Juniors, south end, Library field; Sopho- mores vs. Freshmen, north end, Li- brary field. Friday-Play postponed games, see chart in gym, or call Commis- sioner Ketz. ----·0·---- Bob Kimmey Victor In Pick 'n Pray Event Seven entrants in last week's Concordy football contest managed to pick the winners of all but two of the 15 games in the contest, but after due consideration Bob Kim- mey was awarded the two precious tickets to Proctor's by virtue of having picked the scores more cor- rectly. Deadlocked with Kimmey with only two games wrong on their en- tries were Vic Daneski, Dave Shir- ley, Gerald Peterson, Dan Wit, Mike Seppanen and Phil Siskind. Back with the pack was Nick Mor- relli, winner of the two tickets in the first contest. He was backing four losers Saturday. Here are this week's games: Freshman Eleven Loses Early Lead And Bows To Middlebury, 26-2 Holds 2·0 Advantage Until Third Period And Then Falls Apart For 30 minutes Saturday after- noon it looked as ii the potentially powerful freshman football squad would get its season off on the right foot with an easy victory over Middlebury. Leading, 2-0, at the half, AI Ci- ampa's yearlings lo0ked like sure winners. Then Middlebury's Pan- ther cubs came out for the third quarter and scored 13 points sQ line and theB sending Zaumiel through the line for the score. The placekick for point was good. The third Middlebury touchdown came a:o Robertson scampered off tackle to score on third down from Union's 34-yard line. This score was a surprise to everyone, as Middle- bury had been driven back and had 18 yards to go for first down. Pillsbury gave Middlebury its final score as he intercepted a pass at midfield and galloped through the whole Union team to the prom- ised land. fast that \Champ\ almost put in This week-end a protest as to the legality ~f t.he 1 freshmen idl~. The occurrence. From here the M1dd1es · they entertam the tapered off with two more touch- lings. It promises will find the following week R. P. I. year- to be a great downs and won, 26-2. battle. This defeat didn't faze Mentor AI. He attributed it to inexperience and ran his finger over the re- maining games on the schedule with optimism. Union Scores First Frosh Gridder Faints After Reading Paper Here's one for the book. AI Ci- Scoring on the opening kickoff , ampa thinks so anyway. as they trapped a Middlebury back The other day Al caught two of behind his goal fo1· a safety, the his freshman footballers reading a Garnet freshmen controlled the Concordy on the sidelines during play throughout the entire first practice. Irked by their laziness, half. Penalties probably prevented I \Champ\ ordered them to run them from scoring at least one 1 around the field until he told them touchdown. They gained over 100 to stap. yards in the first half, most of I Some twenty minutes later which were nullified when the ball \Champ\ was attracted by an agon- was called back by penalties. ized moan as an out-of-breath grid- Middlebury's frosh were bottled der implored him ... \What'll we up throughout the first two periods do with Blank, coach? He's and didn't get out of their own ter- fainted.\ ritory until the second half got j Seems \Champ\ had forgotten all under way. Then they scored two I about the pair he was disciplining touchdowns and an extr·a point in and they had gone no less than 17 six minutes. times around the field. \They'll be in shape now, any- how,\ was Champ's comment on the event. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut Their first touchdown came when Robertson cracked center and went 40 yards to score. The point was missed, but shortly afterwards the Panthers scored again. A bad pass from center put the Little Dutch-: men back on their 11-yard line and; they were forced to punt out to: their own 40. Middlebury then ! drove over the goal on three plays,, ·passing over the weak side for 20 yards, bucking center to the 12-yard I ~~----------------------· -~· .• ~·-~·- -··-r·- ·- _ _, ... ,_..,.. __ ,.. '\T~-- - -- ---~-V-·\1\~•.· .. -~ .. ~.-...., ~ .... Four strokes of bad luck in less than five minutes were all that pre- vented Middlebury from scoring a second touchdown five minutes aft- er its first score. A low pass from center got away from Sherry Hil- lick and Art Pepin recovered for Middlebury on the Union 11. Then \Red\ Killian exploded the threat by intercepting a pass on the Gar- net four-yard stripe. This was one piece of bad luck for the Middies. Union couldn't gain and Cliff Platt punted 31 yards to Jack Urban on the Union 40. U1·ban beelined straight through the whole Union team for a touchdown, but it was called back to the 24 because of a clipping penalty. Middlebury began to march then, running to a first down on the Union 16. Then Colonna fumbled on the Union six-yard line just as he picked up a first down. He re- covered on the Union 13. The next play was a fourth-down pass from Urban to Pepin in the end zone. Pepin fell just as he went up to catch the ball. was dropped by Ken Sharpe, stop- ped the drive. On fourth down Hil- lick passed to Platt on the Mid- dlebury 12-yard line. This was two yards short of a first down and Middlebury took the ball. Ten sec- onds later the game ended. Father Time apparently grew tired of waiting for Union to score. Pos. Union Middlebury Lawrence Catches Up In Pick 'n Pray Event Perhaps Art Lawrence got some consolation out of the week-end, in spite of the fact that his Dutch- men lost to Middlebury, for he picked 12 of 14 games conectly In the athletic department football contest. Cornell . . . . . . . . Navy ......... . Army ......... Yale ......... . Colgate . . . . . . . . Duke ......... . Columbia . . . . . . Georgia ...... . California . . . . . Oregon ....... . Dartmouth . . . . Harvard ..... . Hobart . . . . . . . . Trinity .. _ .... . Iowa ·. . . . . . . . . . Wisconsin .... . {/~:~to ~·~~-~~i:~ds1~~ [ J in one easy lesson f< j Treat yourself and others to \.' il Several minutes later fate robbed Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD- ROLLS- PASTRY Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO .. Quality - Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values LE Hallenbeck ............. Pepin LT Adamzevich . . . . . . . . . . . Bishop LG Kayne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Adsit C Baker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Prukop RG Schulze . . . . . . . . . . . . Wishinski RT Hill .................... Harris RE McKennis . . . . . . . . . . Cosgrove QB Sharpe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Urban LH Enstice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hollister RH Galuszka ............... Klein FB Sherman . . . . . . . . . . . Reumann Middlebury ....... 0 6 0 0-6 Union ............. 0 0 0 0---0 Substitutions - Union, Jones, Klarman, Green, Davis, Hillick, Killian, Shaw, Platt, Zulauf, Hoff- man and Burns; Middlebury, Bale, Colonna, Vyros and Boissevain. Officials-Referee, J. F. Farrell; umpire, J. E. Barry; head lines- man, J. K. Quirk. Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil This phenomenal bit of prognos- ticating pulled Art up from the bot- tom of the coaches' race and in- stalled him in second place tie with B!ll Ketz with 24 correct selections in 33 games. Ketz had a bad week- end, backing five losers, a record number for this season. AI Ciampa and Hal Wittner con- tinued neck-and-neck for first place, picking 10 winners in 14 games to bring their total correct selections to 25 in 33 games. \Champ\ was the only one of the quartet to call Columbia's victory over Princeton. But then, it's his alma mater and the poor old Lions have to win once in a while . Interested in Schmectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street Jeweler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Jewelry Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS N.Y.U. . . . . . . . . Syracuse ..... . Pennsylvlliilia .. Rocheste1• Tennessee Tex. A. & M .. . Michigan ..... . Pripceton ..... Amherst Alabama ..... . T_c.u ......... . N'western .... . Name ..........................• Address .................. ·- .... · EDELWEISS-oF couRsE!! JOHN SEXTON & CO.-Chicago-Brooklyn EXTON f):::~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . I ;;;; . ~ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!: ' - - - - - - - - - - - - - - § Schenectady Engraving Co. § - - - - - - - - - - - - E Engravers for The Concordiensis § - - - - = = - - - - - - - - - - § 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 § - - - - - - - - - - - - - - iJ llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 11111111111 r. Gazette Press Printing wholesome, delicious Wrigley's , .·1 j Spearmint Gum. Swell to chew. i' :] Helps keep breath sweet, teeth bright. The Flavor Lasts.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1941 FEATURE 4 Music Critics Praise Dunham's Young Band PETITIO~N Spirited Audience lauds Tidmarsh \Metronome\, Frank Dailey Express High Opinions Of Gridiron Ball Maestro Who is Sunny Dunham'? Music Director Praised By Fox on SOOth Recital A highly appreciative audience numbering nearly 800 persons heard Dr. Elmer A. Tidmarsh play the five-hundredth in his series of weekly organ recitals Sunday aft- ernoon. The recital was preceded by a short speech of introduction by .President Fox, s.peal,ing for the College. Sonny Dunham is a man with an idea and a band. He is an experi- enced musician, having played with Glen Gray's Casa Lorna outfit for eight years. More than a year ago, he started his own unit which he has developed into a solid and very danceable orchestra. He himself is featured on trumpet and trombone. W·hat are the features of the band'.' Contrary to the custom usually followed at the Sunday afternoon recitals, the audience interrupted the program with prolonged ap- plause between numbers. Well, we'll have to turn to Metro- nome !Aug., 1941l to' answer this: ''First of all there are the a!'l'ange- ments, along Luncefordian prin- ciples, yet with numet·ous sparks oi originality. \Secondly there's the good rhy- thm section, which gets good beats not only when the band is playing jazz numbets, .but also when it goes through its numerous ballad rendi- tions. Many out-of-town guests were present to pay tribute to Dr. Ti!:l- marsh, including a group of alwut twenty-five from Skidmore. Fox Opens Program Dr. Fox, in hts O!Jening remarks, spoke highly of Dr. Tidmarsh's work at Union, of the fine quality of music he has so consistently pre- sented here, and noted what he thought was the most import::mt thing to be remembered on this occasion, \ ... that this five-hun- dredth recital marks the register- ing of a fine beginning, a begin- ning from which we may look for- ward to many more hundreds of the fine concerts.\ Dr. Fox praised the ot·ganist for the fine taste, per- servering labor and sheer artistry which have made the sel'ies oossi- ble. At the close of the recital, which included all the numbers played at the first recital in 1926, Dr. Tid- marsh played as an encore, Bach s \Air for the G String.\ ----o-- Outing Club Enjoys Canoe Trip Jf'ith Vassar <Continued from Page 1) wa:s reached where the party plant· ed their flag, a red and blue ban- dana. A three course dinner of jam, marmalade, and peanut butter sandwiches was now served, some oranges and chocolate bars also went to the more fortunate. Down the mountain again, into our birch- barks, and off we headed for Bol- ton. The remaining three miles of the trip were filled with wind and waves, but not a canoe faltered. Bolton was reached, partings were sa1d and Union, to say nothing of Vassar, returned to its routines. Names mean nothing, each and all of us were easily recognizable yesterday morning as we limped about the campus. --------0---- Tuition Installment Due \Thirdly there's the sensational- ly-styled t·rumpet and musical ex- perience of its leader, who's been around in big bands long enough to know what he wants, and, what is more important, how to get it. \Fourthly there's an almost mys- tical esprit de corps at times, at times, a pretty obvious desire on the part of fellows in the band -to work, and to work hard and well, in an honest attempt to achieve due l'ecognition. Band Is Vt>rsatile \In its most nacul'al moments, the band makes use of these and other attributes. It plays pleasant jazz, and it plays ballads prettily and musically.\ How is the band rated by musicians? Aaain we turn to Metronome, for our \answer. Frank Dailey, ex-band- leader and now owner of The Meadowbrook, says: \The trend now is definitely towards musical bands. I don't mean just swing. I mean bands that play real music. As I see it, there are three young outfits that have the best chance right now, and all of them are musical. One is Claude Thornhill; another is Les Brown; and the third is Sonny Dunham.\ This frum the owner of the most populat· roadhouse near New York. What are his most popular recordings'! Sonny's latest release is \My Foolish Heart and I,\ which is a new ballad, cmoothly vocalled by Ray Kellogg. He has recorded his theme. \Memories Of You,\ which features Sonny's trumpet. Another ballad, \Lament To Love,\ with Ray on the vocal again, has a solo by \Corky\ Cocoran, the band's tenor sax star and youngest member !16 years>. Wht>re can I !war Sonny Dunham's recordings? On UBS at 5:15 and 7:30 on Wed- nesday, October 15. Concerts are also being ananged at the various fraternity houses in the near fu- ture. The second in:stallment of tuition for the first semestet is due and ::hould be paid Wednesday, October 15. No bills have been issued and it is requested that all students having payments due make them on the above date. Any question regarding the amount due should be asked at the Comptroller's Of- fice at once. For De Luxe Coaches CALL G. A. WELCOME &SON All payments made after the above date will be subject to the usual fine of $2 00. The Comptroller's Office wlil be open for the collection of tuition accounts on Wednesday, October 15: From 9:00 a. m. to 12:30 p. m. and from 1:00 to 4:45 p. m. 1711 Union St. PHONE 4-9444 Anything you need? Call GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 $ I 0 - PRIZE - $ I 0 Compete now for prize given by ROGERS PEET CO. Write and illustrate an ad on our Clothes and their appeal!!!! Look for posters on the campus! Send your \ad\ direct to- Advertising Department ROGERS PEET COMPANY 842 Broadway, New York City Contest closes midnight, Saturday, Oct. 25, 1941 ,Concordiensis Business Staff His Star Rising SONNY DUNHAM CALENDAR Tonight 7:30 p. m.--Newman Club Meet- ing. Silliman Hall. 7:45 p. m.-Classical Club Meet- ing. Home of Professor George D. Kellogg. Tomorrow 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Songs by the Mormon Chorus. 5-6:00 p. rn.-Public speaking class. Old Chapel. 3-5:30 p. m.-Exhibit of sculpture. Hanna Hall under the auspices of the American Society of Uni- versity Women. Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Lec- ture on are by Mr. George B. Cummin!i. Friday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly. Dr. Elmer A. Tidmat·sh. Birthday Party for Schulz Mrs. C. E. Bigelow of 1160 Park- wood Blvd. is giving Edward Schulz '42 a surprise party on his 21st birthday at her home to-night A few of his fripnds will be pres- ent. They are Mrs. Hawkins, War- ren Perkins, Lester Gehrman James Herbert, William Kling and Vincient Palladino. PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady After 90 years brewing experience there should be and there is an even finer GEO. B. LEE UBS Programs 640 Kilocycles Wednesday 5:15-Tea Dance Time with Dear Mr. Waring: The undersigned, all students in good standing· at Union College, all devoted listeners to your program and all faithful to the most popular collegiate cigarette in America, \Chester- fields,\ petition you to honor the Union College Football team Fl'iday evening, November 7th. Sonny Dunham 5:30-Editor's Corner 5:35-For Your· Enjoyment 7:15-Campus Caravan 7:30- Sunny Dunham's Records 1':45---Editor's Cornet Thursday 5:15-Jackpot on the Air 5:20-Jive Session 5:30-News You have already received arranged music of the Union Alma Mater and the Dutchman's Song. You are petitioned 1 to play the two on the eve of the Union Gridiron Ball and the traditional Union-Rochester game. 5:35-For Your Enjoyment 'i': 15---Campus Caravan 7:30-Classics of the World 7:45-News ---0--- Neutrals Organize tCentinued from Page 1) Pyramid Club president, is expect- ed to organize the Amsterdam group of commuters this week. Ed- gar Fisher, '42, will ca:ll an organi- zation meeting of Schenectady neu- trals. Other neutral commuter lead- ers who are interested in organiz- ing units .for representation on the Pyramid Council should see Bishop, temporary chairman. The Council will meet weekly in Hale House for luncheon and dis- cussion. .----------------------f I Letter Writing Harder l I Now? I I I I Why Not Send l I The Concordiensis I I Home- l I I I $3 Will Do It ! I I -----------------------~ We b~lieve that the Union football team is deserving of your recognition because of the tremendous amount of spirit and faith which this colleg'e has maintained in their football team despite a non too brilliant season. • 0 o o I o o 0 0 o o o o o o o o o • o o o o o o o o o o Name e 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 t 0 ~ I o 0 o o I o o 0 t o 0 o o t o 0 0 Address - ---- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --~ --- --- - Clip and give to any Concordiensis staff member or leave in the Concordiensis box. ~---------------------------------------------~ I I I ICE CREAM l I I ' ' ! One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, I l any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. 1 11,1 : $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6-7248 I l Bellevue Dairy I I I L-----------------------------------------------: ------------------------------------------- Bros. current release) makes a bi9 hit with the Navy. Chesterfield makes a big hit with the Navy Copyright 1941. LiccE'lT & MYERS Toa•cco Ca for a Definitely MILDER COOLER BETTER TASTE Smokers everywhere know you can travel a long way and never find another cigarette that can match Chesterfield for a Milder Cooler Better Taste. It's Chesterfield's Right Combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos that wins the approval of smokers all over the country. Let the Navy's choice be your choice ••. make your next pack Chesterfield. EVERYWHERE YOU GO ~~w Vc 1 dir cet bet Ru thE tri< ceJ 1 WI' of of me ha1 ce::: pul Co: 1 nol dri Ha Be He Fa the Ja< Du as Mr as '] the pa1 he ace ly tha gr~ der :;: 01' wa Ro Er< j rna pre We bee Fri pre to sec tha tar E bar a \ lea the the t·eh for ]1, dut me he a Wa F rea ma chf abc abc wh act tha son enj bee an< ]1, act risE a de for pos the par aile pat one Pri Qu B can the aft• Car the due c son wit nes Fre

r- Attend • • Beat Game at Burlington StS Vermont Tomorrow The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV, Number 11 p lwlles, Editorial 4·0133 ' Press 4·H41 SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1941 Price 5c: Mounte:ban!ks Nam·e Full Cast~ Director For 'Outward Boundy j Sunny Dunham Ranks High , With Union Students; Praise 1 Music, Ray Kellog, Vocalist \Say that's a sweet sax sec- tion! And What a nice back- ground. Is that vocalist coming with him? What's his name? Ray Kellogg? Geod voice. That's a powerful trumpet. I think its a good band!!\ I Faculty Members Address Holde:rs Of Scholarships Kirkpatrick, N. Y. DiD-ector To Head December Play.; Possibility of One Act Curtain Riser Disc:ussed Announcement of the cast and director of the Mounte ba;nks' De- cember play, \Outward Bound\ has been released today by Gordon Rust, faculty coordinator of the theatre group. Mr. Jack Kirkpa- trick of New York City has ac- cepted the position of dil'ector. Mr. Kirkpatrick has been a play- wright and di·rector for a number of years and has had a great deal of success with the Agonquit Sum- mer Theatre, Agonquit, Maine. He has also achieved a degree of suc- cess as a writer of one act plays, published by Samuel French and Company. The cast, as it has been an- nounced, comprises Harolo Hen- drickson as Set ubby; Miss Eileen Hanrahan of Schenectady as Ann; Bert Miller as Henry; Joseph Heaney as Mr. Prior, Mrs. Orrin J. Farrell, wife of Professor Farrel of the faculty, as Mrs. Cliveden-Banks; Jack Neary as the Rev. William Duke; Mrs. John Bellamy Taylor as Mrs. Midget; Stanley Green as Mr. Lingley and Seymour Meisel as the Rev. Frank Thomson. The casting has been done with the understanding that Mr. Kirk- patrick can make whatever changes he thinks best when he arrives, but according to Mr. Rust this is high- ly improbable. Mr. Rust also said that the Mountebanks wet•e highly gratified at the turnout of stu- dents for the tryouts. Students to be used as alternates or in case of substitution are Ed- ward Dahlstendt, Jonathan Rowe, Robert Schamberger and Miss Jean Erdoss of Schenectady. Announcement has also been made of a change of dates for the production. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, December 8, 9, 10, have been chosen for the dates instead of Friday, Saturday and Monday as previously announced. Subscribers lo the Mountebanks will be sent a second notice next week in order that they may be able to make ar- 1 angements for tickets. Rehearsal Plans For the next month the Mounte· banks plan to have two rehearsals a week in order that the cast might learn their lines in preparation for the arrival of Mr. Kirkpatrick. For the next three weeks there will be J·ehearsal every night until the per- formance. Mr. Rust will rehearse the cast duri!lg the first month. Arrange- ments and management of the re- hearsals are under the direction of V\Tallace Morgan, stage manager. Production proceedings are al- ready underway with production manager Abraham Bakal in charge. He is being assisted by about a dozen student volunteers. \Outward Bound\ is a fantasy about a group of people on a ship who learn during the course of the action that they are all dead and that the ship is bearing them to some sort of life after death. It has enjoyed a great success having been produced twice on Broadway an.c:l. once in the movies. Mr. Rust has also said that a one act play may be put on as a curtain riser for the main performance. He added that it would not continue for more than twenty minutes. If possible it wil ·be exclusively for the freshmen who tried out for parts in \Outward Bound''· and ailed. A play written by Mr. Kirk- patrick will be used if a suitable one can be found. Printshop Takes Up New Quarters in Silliman Hall Bob's Print Shop opened on the campus today with headquarters in the old barbershop in Silliman Hall after a year of dormancy. Bob Carter. '44, is the new partner in the firm which was formerly con- ducted by Bob Bishop, '43. Carter has been printing for some three years in partnership with his ·brother who is still in busi- ness while attending the Elmira Free Acarlemy. !'------- I. B. M. President Heads Discuss.ions After-the-War Conditions To Be Topic of Conclave On Industry, Government Thomas J. Watson, President of the International Busines;; Ma- chines corporation, will be the leader of the fourth annual confer- ence on industry and government at Union, Tuesday, October 21, it has been announced by President Fox. \Preparations for after-the-! war conditions at home and abroad will be the subject of the confer- ence,\ it was stated. Mr. Watson will deliver the theme address at 8 p. m. in Hale House. A dinner scheduled for 7 o'clock and a roundtable discussion by the representatives of indu.,try, govern- ment, labor and education will fol- low. An informal conference earlier in the day will consider \Preparations in Upper New York State for aft- er-the-war conditions.\ A brief re- port on this topic will be presented at the evening session. Sayre Chairman Such were the comments heat·d in praise of the Sonny Dunham band from the people who have heard his most t•ecent record re- leases. Members of the intE>rfra- ternity council and the dance committee have been playing the recordings in different fral.,rnity houses when enough of the group can be collected to hear them. Heactions have been most favur- able as shown by the comrn .. nt.;; amove. The interfraternity council hopes to play the record.;; in every house by tomorrow so that a wide campus reaction can be obtained. It is the opinion of Chal'!es Stiles, Chairman of the dan~·3 commit- tee, that the whole college wants to know about the band and he is planning to allow the band to speal' for itself through the me- dium of the records. The Council has al~o an- nounced that the sale of tichets will begin next Mm:day. The Council member in the different houses will have them for sale and there will also be a neutral representatives wno will be an- nounced. The bids will be $3.50. Professo~ Mortimer F. sayre, Robert Landon '80 chairman of the conference has an- I nounced acceptances from many organizations and individuals in-1 1 vited to attend, including H. G. Batcheller, president of the Aile- 1 gheny Ludlum Steel Company, Wa-J terv!iet; A M. Manweiller, office I manager. American Meter Com- pany, Albany! J. M. Donnelly, sup- erintendent of the Bigelow-Sanford Company, Amsterdam; a repre- sentative of R. 0. Kennedy, vice- president, Cluett, Peabody Com- pany, Troy. A. K. Chapman, vice-president Eastman Kodak Company, Roches- ter; H. H. Titsworth, president of the Glens Falls Portland Cement Company; A. W. Thompson, vice- president Ludlow Valve Manufac- turing Company, Troy; James T. Adams, president J. A. Manning Paper Company, Green Island; W. J. Campbell, personnel manager, Mohawk Carpet Mills, Inc., Amster- dam. ----0•--- Defense Training Enrolls 650 Died Wednesday Son of Former President City's Oldest Lawyer Robert Judson Landon, 82, oldest practicing lawyer in Schenectady and graduate of Union in the class of 1880, died Wednesday at his Union Street home Wednesday after a short illness. Mr. Landon was the son of Judge Judson Stuart Landon, one time acting president of Union and Jus- tice of the New York State of Ap- peals and Emily Pierce Landon. He was born in this city August 1, 1859. He received his education at the old Union classical institute and then entered Union. While at college he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa Honorary academic frater- nity, Mr. Landon received his L. L. B. degree from the Albany Law School in 1883 and was admitted to the New York State bar in the same year. Fraternity Trustee At College he was a member of About 650 men and women have Delta Upsilon Fraternity and after been accepted for enrollment in 20 graduation served as a trustee of courses offered by the Engineering, the fraternity for 47 years. For 61 Science and Management Defense years the class of 1880 made its Training program at Union accord- headquarters at Mr. Landon's home ing to temporary tabulations re- , at commencement time. leased by Professor Russell A. Hall, Mr. Landon was trustee of the program director, today. upper Hudson chapter of Phi Beta Nearly 800 applications were re- Kappa for 47 years. ceivecj for admission to the col!rse.s An active republican, Mr. Lan• with the percentage of acceptances don served as chairman of the far above that of last year's pro- County Committee and as a dele- gram. Professor Hall credits this gate to various G. 0. P. conven- influx of qualified applicants to · lions. He was instrumental in the efficiency of newspaper course de- I passage of the bill for the con- scriptions, pamphlets and word of I struction of the Western Gateway mouth information disseminated by I Bridge, working for its passage in those who took the courses last I the State Assembly. year. o, ___ _ Registration last night went over I B' h • Ut' the quota in Engineering Mathe- IS op 1D tea matics. An additional quota will be for Campus Chest Winners Receive Advice, Criticism irom Bronner, Waldron, Hoadley, Wyatt Freshman holding scholarships were given some idea of what is expected of them during their stay at college Wednesday night at a meeting called by Frederic A. Wy- att, director of admissions in Old Chapel. The procedure of the meeting consisted of short talks by An- thony Hoadley, Comptroller; Char- les Waldron, Secretary of the Col- iege and Frederick Bronner, Chair- man of the field of Social Studies. Mr. Hoadley gave a financial pic- ture of the scholarships, showing how the endowments and assets of the college supported the scholar- ships and he pointed out where the endowments came from. Dr. Wal- dt·on gave several ideas on the pur- pose and background of scholar- ships. He explained that scholar- ships are one of the fine manifesta- tions Gf democracy and that the holders of scholarships were chosen because they are considered good material to send forth into our democratic world. In what he de- scribed as a \hard boiled\ speech he urged the men with scholarships to get out and get what they could from their college careers. Activities Lauded Dr. Bronner began by saying that he wa~ a critic of everything, in- cluding men with scholarships. His criticism of these men was that they did not take an active enough part in extra-curricular activities. As a solution he suggested that they at least be interested in what is going on and should the oppor- tunity arise wherein they could be of some use to the college they should take up the chance imme- diately. Mr. Wyatt closed the meeting by quoting a few statistics dealing with the students retention of scholarships at Union and showed that between ten and thirty-four per cent of each clas;; lose their scholarships during the course of four years. ---0•--- Freshmen Ponder All-Neutral Band Union College·s non-fraternity men will hear an all-neutral band organized by the Py1amid freshman committee at the first social event sponsored by the new Pyramid Council, a cider party in the Hale House student lounge from 7 to 8 o'clock tonight. South College freshmen last night elected Denton Robinson of Nanda their chairman to serve on the freshman committee with Gerald Weinstein of North College and Robert Hamilton of Oldgym Hall. The three are organizing the band. Other committeemen elected this week are Alexander Maxwell, '43, as North College delegate to the jun- ior committee and Edward Fliegel. '42, as North College delegate to the senior committee. Roland Fitzroy jr .. '43, and Tim- othy Mitche:l, 45, have been ap- pointed by the Council to survey possible sites for a game room and prepare estimates on wot k and cost of remodeling. requested from the U. S. Office of Education which sponsors the pro- gram. Production and cost con- trol registration reached 160 while drafting and drafting t·oom prac- tice attracted 110. ----0---- Oliver steingerwalt. '43. and Max- well have arranged to have soft Robert Bishop, '43, chairman of drink dispensers placed in ·both the Campus Chest, today is attend- North and South Colleges early ing a conference of campus chest next week Proceeds of the rna- and student body leaders at the Ho- chines will be placed in a fund to tel Utica in Utica in connection purchase newspapers and maga- with the World Student Service zines for the dorms. Fund. Cider and doughnuts for tonight's Ferdinand Helm, Jr., '37 Called to Colors The World Student Service Fund, affair have been donated by N. which will be added to the list of Waddell Cease. manager of Hale charities served by the Union cam- House. Several musical and dra- Ferdinand Helm, Jr., '37, an Eng- 1 pus chest tJ:is yea:, has a goal ~f I matic offerings will supplement the lish instructor at Columbia Univer- ~100,000 to atd destttute students rn I all-neutt·al band music as enter- sHy and a former instr~ctor in ~ the F~r ~ast and Europe .. The I tainment. Schenect~dy and. vicinity English here has been mducted ;ampatg? ts conducted exclustvely I neutrals present wtll constder or- into the Army of the United States j m Amertcan colleges. i ganizing their- units. A meeting of by a New York City selective serv- . Brett Smithers, James McNulty, Schenectady neutrals is expected to ice board. : and Arthur DeLorenzo, sophomore, be called for chapel period Monday Announcement of Helm's indue- : members of the campus chest com- 1 in the Old Chapel while vicinity tion was made yesterday at Fort l mittee. are contacting representa- 1 residents will meet at the same Dix, N. J., where he was sent fol- : tives in fraternity houses and non-. time in Silliman Hall. lowing his induction and where he: fJaternity groups in pleliminary or- I Hale House regular diners at the today received an assignment to . ganization of the chest campaign, meeting will consider petitioning the Field Artillery Replacementl 1 which is tentatively set for Novem- 1 1 the administration to make a blan- Training Center, Fort Bragg, N. C. ber 11-13. (Continued on Page 4) fo.rrest~ G,oldberg,. Wil.liams Ele(ted to Phi Beta Kappa New Members Chosen at Meeting Tuesday: Initiation Scheduled for November 3; Othea-s To Be Named at Spring Election Achieving the highest scholastic honor attainable, three seniors were elected to Phi Beta Kappa Tuesday night. Elec- tion to the honorary fraternity is given as a rule, to men who stand highest in scholarship in their class, and is the highest distinction to be gained by scholarship by men in the A. B. division. Cane Rush Fracas Plans Completed Victory Promised By Both Classes Union's traditional \good scrap\ between the freshmen and the sophomores will be held tomorrow on Council Field at 1:30 p. m., Freshman Orientation Committee chairman Andrew E. Reilly said to- day. The freshman will meet at one in front of the Civil Engineering building to organize under their newly elected class president, Ed- ward Bates, while the sophomores will \muster\ in the vicinity of the Idol under the leadership of class president John Clowe. Freshmen will start the cane rush from the north end of Council Field, sophomores from the south end. Reilly said that men who cross opposition lines with canes may keep them as mementos of the cane rush. He will also have the names of winners engraved on canes which are brought to him. Tug-of·War Following the cane rush 'both groups will form a single line on opposite sides of Hans Groot Kill and seek to pull the other into the mud and slime of the marsh. On the eve of the battle both the sophomores and freshmen have ex- pressed confidence in their respec- tive victories. In former years the cane rush has ·been umpired by Professor Wil- fred Ketz and other facu~ty mem- bers but this year the cane rush will be completely supervised by the Freshmen Orientation Commit- tee. The cane rush first originated in 1939 to take the place of the paint and flour fights between classes. The class of '43 won the first cane rush but lost the tug of war when they were pulled into the creek. Later freshmen claimed that the sophomores had tied their end of the rope to a tree. The cane rush and tug of war was climaxed by a free for all tomato fight in which students pelted townspeople. ---0--- Mormon Ensign Chorus Missionaries Sing The Mormon Ensign Chorus, mis- sionary choir of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints received one of the most enthus- iastic ovations awarded visiting singers by the college in chapel Wednesday morning. The group comprised eight male and eight fe- male voices. Organized 10 months ago under the direction of a Utah Mormon, the choir has already traveled more than 6,000 miles in its effort to bring the religion to the eyes of the people. When inter- viewed as to the purposes behind their extended tours, the leaders cited the history of the sect found- ed by Joseph Smith in 1830 after seeing a vision prophesying the coming of angels to herald the new appearance of God on earth. It was indicated that the members of the chorus were regular mission- aries of the Church who engage in the religious duties of their de- nomination when not occupied in choral work. Each assumes his own expenses, both personal and traveling. An outstanding honor was recently conferred upon the group when it was invited to fur- nish the music at the Passion play at SyTacuse, modeled on the famous German event. Honored by election were Robert Forrest, ,Delphis Goldberg and Clayton L. Williams. The three were chosen at th.e first election meeting of the year. Another meet- ing scheduled sometime in the spring will be held for the second election, Professor David S. Morse announced. Jnitiation for the three new members will be on November third. The three were informed of their election yesterday by letter from Pre.,ident Fox. Pleased by recog- nition of their scholastic achieve- ment, they took the election in their stride. Forrest, for instance, informed his parents in a casual letter. A member of Beta Theta Pi, Rob- ert Forrest is from Poland, New York. Besides a State Scholarship he holds the scholarship given by William T. Dewart, Publisher of the New York Sun. An able mathe- matician, Forrest is in the teacher training course of the college and is practice teaching at Nott Ter- race High School. He will be man- ager of basketball for the coming season. He is also vice-president of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity and editor of their publication. Goldberg from Troy Delphis Goldberg commutes from Troy daily. He holds a general scholarship and has done N. Y. A. work in Bailey Hall cor- recting papers. Interested in small dances, he served on the sopho- more dance committee. At present, he is president of the International Relations Club and is engaged in a rE!bui!ding of that organization. Last year he was a member of the fencing team. Besides being a student at Union College, Clayton Williams is pastor of the Baptist church in Sloans- ville. He has been a minister ever since his freshman year when he traveled to two churches in Sara- toga County on Sundays to lead the services and preach a sermon. Leaving these churches two years ago, he accepted a call to Sloans- ville where he now lives with his wife Margaret, whom he married in April, 1940, in the parsonage. After graduation Williams hopes to attend the Colgate-Rochester Divinity School. He holds a general scholarship and the Vedder Schol- ar.ship here. ---0,---- A. A. U. W. Sponsors Work Of Woman Sc:ulpture The work of Mary Metcalf Langs, noted sculptress, is now on exhibit in Hanna Hall. Mrs. Har- old W. Blodgett, in charge of the exhibit, announced that the show- ing would be open every afternoon through and including Sunday from 3 to 5:30 o'clock. The exhibit is being sponsored by the American Association of University Women. Mrs. Langs spoke to this group Wednesday afternoon on \Some Ways of Look- ing at Sculpture.\ Mrs. Langs is a pupil of Bow·- delle and Gimond. She has eXhib- ited at the Salon de Paris and is a three time winner of the Menno Alexander Reeb Memorial Prize for the finest piece of sculpture at the annual exhibit by artists of West- ern New York. Speaking of the three stages in sculpture, Mrs. Langs summed them up in the terse statement; \The clay represents creation; the plaster, death; the ·bronze, resurrec- tion.\ Mr. and Mrs. Langs are house guests of Dr. and Mrs. George H. Danton.

ml}t {ttntttUtbftttllfll FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1941 EDITORIAL 2 <llnnrnr bttU!lt!1 Dunham Promises Slow Dance Music .-------------------··---------------------------~. I I l The Corn Is Green i L-----------------------------------------------J :.\Iember of the Associated Collegiate Prt:ss and dis- tributor of the Collegiate Digetit H.epresented for ~ational Actvertising by National Advertismg Serv· ice, ltlr., College Publish· ers Hepresentative, 42{! lladison A\'t:llU~, :\t::\\ Yurh: City. \.I Causa Per sa Parole .·1 ssai\ E<htorial Office. Stl'liman . Hall, L'mon College. Pub- lication urr;ce. The Ga- t.ettt !'reo;, 33! State St. l::lltereu in the sc.henec- LUHY Pu.::t Ofiil:t. ;,W:; St.:l.- ond Class :.\tail slatter. Su'u~cri.ption 5c a COPY; $:) ;-ear; dellveretl anywhere 111 the Uuited States. Will Not Try to Blow Roof Off Gymnasium On The Screen-Again this week- The famed Chekhov Players are end it is Darryl Zanuck, the Twen- retu1·ning to Albany next Monday, tieth Century Fox, who is responsi- Tuesday, and Wednesday, and are Sonny Dun:nam, Union's Gridiron ble for the two fHckers at our Hrst presenting \King Lear,\ \The IO:all maestro, will NOT try to blow run pitcher palaces. Zooming into Cricket On The Hearth,\ and the roof off the Alumni Gymnasi·um Pr·octor's on Saturday is \A Yil:nk \Twelfth Night\ on these respec- when he bt·ings his band here on in the R. A. F.\ with Tyrone Power tive days. All but \King Lear,\ the seventh of November. in the title role. Although there is. which will be presented at Page Senior Unurd Armantl y, Feigenbaum ................... Kappa ~u !lous~~-1-7331 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • ........... Editor-In· Chief J·Uotln l't•rl>ttlu ........................... KaJ'i'\- ~u Huu,,t- -1·7331 .............. :: ........ Business 2\Ianaget· Solomon BleciHnan ............... l:i .\Iiddle ::leL'tlun, ~unh CC'Ilegt-6-9966 .......•••...••... Jlanag!ng Editot· ,Jomttllllll Pouroon 00 .. 00 ... 00 ........... 00. ,;Igma Pili l'laL\e--!-tl8~1 00 .. 00 \. 00 ... 00.00 00 .oo 00 ... Snorts Editor ISumuol Poruto~· ........................... Ka-ppa ~u Huu.•~-4-7331 : . ................... ·.· .... As•oeiate Editor \I play for dancing, not for aero- a feeble triangular shaped .plot to Hall at Teachers College, are to be batic contests,\ said Sonny in an mal~:e it fiction rather than just a played at the Institute of History e:..clusiv·J interview with The Con- \March of Time,\ the film's chief and Art, and student prices are cordiensis last Thu1·sday. \I have value lies in its scenes of aerial $1.00. Junior Bonrd-l~ulwrt Hayner. Thutna:< O'Cuntrur, Har- vey Fi~hbune, Jacl: ::lchulz, Granger Tripp. ~orman Fox, Stuff l'hotograpner. Sopltomot't• Board- Thoma.; Cullen, \\'illiam Hart, Al· bert l~runlck, Ell\\ ard JtJtlusuu, ::it:YIIlt•Ur Thicl\.man. Hu~illl'\ ,;taH- :lle!viHe :lle,;sengc-1', David Husenblum, ~'lar\·in Ctan1er. h\o\Ut. 1 l':tlit<,r ...•...•............•...•..•• \YLtltt.lr St.•hnlz a standing rule that at least two combat and the retreat at Dun- Music out of th·ree numbers .must be bal- kirque. Mr. Power as a crank in. l<t.ds. It's all right to ride out when the R. A. F. who reforms, and The Long Hairs-The Schenec- \OU re play1'ng a the\·te b t h tady Music Association g·ot off to a J · · \· r, · u w ·en Betty Grable as the object of his: Friday, October 17, 1941 I play \or a a·ance I play dance d t happy start last Tuesday n:ight \ • · · affection do more than a equa e music The boys a1·e gett 1 'ng the feel f h when a li·keable young basso named · · · jobs, despite the competition o · t e ol the ar·t•ange e t d Dou\'alas_s Beattie gave a very well m n s now, an Spitfires. NEUTRALS AND THE COLLEGE they're really playing music. Our received recital. Equipped with a best record? Well, r think it is our After being shown Sun Valley, fine voice and a pleasant person- latest telease: MY FOOLISH Argentina, Miami, and Rio through· ality, Mr. Beattie impressed us most HEART AND I. Ray (Kellogg) rose colored glasses, we are now with his really excellent acting. He really does a grand job on the vo- given a glimpse of a \Weekend in sang in English, Italian, Russian, cal,\ he said. Havana\ (at the State) to be seen and Scottish dialect, each number On the ft•ont page of this newspape1· is printed a story for which we have beeN hoping for a long time-the story of active, intelligently conceived action for and by a neutral organization. It may not be particu- larly important in itself that neutrals are meeting tonight for a get-together. It is only a cider and doughnuts party, at which neutral entertainment will be presented. The fact that the neutrals are meeting, the fact that they are quietly proceeding to add substance to the outlines of the organization upon which they decided last week the fact that they are beginning to investigate the location of a game room-these are impor- tant. The fact that neutrals are beginning to think of themselves sufficiently as a social unit to consider plans for group attendance at the Hamilton game, the fact that neutrals are in the position to plan a tea dance or smoker for their group following the R. P. I. game-these are important. They are important to the neutrals them- selves, who are coming into the position wherein they can secure for themselves the advantages that they have long wanted. They are important to the college as a whole which has never been su1·e of any g-en- eral neatral support for any of the projects which have meant a great deal to the student body. N eutml collective action, when properly directed and promoted by the neutrals them- selves, means 768 men all of whom go to Union-and not a portion of whom only at- tend classes or only reside here. THE CANE RUSH HAS SOMETHING We're sorry for every freshman and soph- omore who 'viii miss the cane rush tomorrow. Those who come will be treated to an afternoon of healthy bodily contact in the cool crisp air of a fall day. Those who par- ticipate had better wear their old clothes for they will be dragged throug-h the mud of the Council Field and Hans Groot Kill, thrown in the ail' or sat upon and perhaps subjected to a barrage of over ripe fruit. And, if past cane rushes are criteria, they will love it Almost an army in the field, the cane rushes have effectively served as one of the best of class uniting forces. Class leaders have emerged from the muck and grime of the contest, men on whom the class officers knew they could count for effective organ- ization and support of the class dances and other functions. The cane rush tomorrow is another hig·h point in the enthusiastic display of spirit by both the freshman and sophomore classes. And for sheer entertainment the show is worth watching. THE LANDONS AND UNION COLLEGE Bred to the law, his father a judge of the Court of Appeals, Robert Judson Landon had a long and honored career at the bar, con- tinuing the practice of law from his sick bed up to a short time before he died. Father and son, the Landons, dwelling al- most opposite the Blue Gate, were identified with Union Colleg-e, first and last for ninety years from the fifties to 1941. The elder Landon-Judge Judson S.-was called upon to serve as President ad interim of the Col- lege from 1884 to 1888; and the younger Landon, born to the tradition, found himself going through the Blue Gate in due time to the College from which he graduated with honors in 1880, and for three-score years and one thereafter he was host to the mem- bers of his class as they came back to their reunions. Distinguished in letters and law, Robert Landon, a son of Schenectady and of Union College, served well his day and his constitu- ents. His works are his best monument-the enduring Western Gateway Bridge whose early legislation was prepared and secured through his efforts. His civic interests were broad and many -School Board, Health Board, Zoning Board, Republican County Chairman, Phi Beta Kappa trustee. One of his last public appearances was at the Histor- ical Society of which he was director, where he read a paper which his father had pre- pared and presented many years earlier. In his departure, Schenectady loses a con- necting link with the past who was in vital touch also with the present for a period ex- tending more than eighty eventful years in his native city. -'Union-Star' WELL DONE Three men have just been named to Phi Beta Kappa: -three men who have distinguished them- selves in intellectual pursuit; three men who have shown that they know the true purpose of college. -three men who have struck a happy bal- ance among outside activities, outside work and scholarship. Goldberg, Forrest and Williams know what college means: -two of them commute daily. -all have jobs, Forrest in the Beta house, Goldberg on NY A and Williams in the min- istry. -all have scholarships. -two of them find time for an activity, while the obligations of the third mean far more than the average colleg-e activity re- sponsibility. -all maintain an outstandingly high grade of scholarship. The respect that men will pay to their Phi Bete key for the duration of their lives is deserved by these three men, for they have demonstrated the qualities that are worthy of t·espect in America. Our congratulations to Goldberg, Forrest, and Williams for the achievement of a dis- tinction that is, in itself, the symbol of a college career well spent. PROGRESS REPORt in 1nuch the same fashion There being accompanied by perfect dra- lVJoney's Wor.th is really nothing unusual in it to matic pantomime. His renditions of In reply to a comment on the d-istinguish it from those other Scottish ballads, lullabies, and a short delay between sets, the trum- chamber of commerce delights, but comic aria from \The Barber Of pet and trombone virtuoso said; it is just as tuneful, just as pretty Seville\ were especially well done. \After all, it's a job. These people in technicolor, and just as un·im-' Next Thursday the American came here to dance to our music, portant as its forerunners. And for Civic Opera Cbmpany will present and we'll never make any friends those who don't think that Alice two performances of \Rigoletto\ at by taking long intermissions. We Faye shakes a mean pair of hips, the Mont Pleasant auditorium. The .stop long enough to stretch and to there's always Carmen Miranda. performances aTe being sponsored pick out ()Ur music, and then we by the Glee Club and tickets may da1 t again.\ In The Flesh-Saturday the Chi- be obtained for the extremely low \We like to play col'leges,\ Sonny cago company of \Life With price of $.50, plus tax. said. \The spirit is different and Father\ come,; to the Erie Theatre the boys feel it. I certainly hope for two performances. Although we Art to see you on the seventh.\ have not yet seen the touring com- For the next week an exhibition pany, its production is the same as of sculpture work by Mary Met- 0 the one we saw in New York: both calf-Langs will be shown in Hanna having been dil·ected by Bretaigne Hall. The work exhibited by her Wind-ust. This i~ an amusing little has been done in bronze, terra cot- piece ail about life in the red head- ta, walnut, and pewter, and shows ed Clarence Day household at the a great deal of talent. The sculp- turn of the century. It is not an turing is of the modern school, and uproarous comedy, but in the hands the influence of Jacob Epstein, the of its very capable director, it English sculptor, is apparent in her Frederic: Wyatt to Visit High and Prep Schools emerges as an altogether delight· work in bronze. ful period play. S. G. Mr. and Mrs. Frederic A. Wyatt recently announced plans to visit several high and preparatory schools in the South eastern states. The purpose of these stops is pri- marily to contact potential future Union men. Mr. Wyatt .stated how- -------·---· ·--- -----·--------- ever that the trip is really a vaca- r-----------------------------------------------; tioSno~ 0 eu~f the schools at which Mr. Ill AFTER THE GAME Howard Johnson·s I Wyatt intends to stop ate Pough- 1 You'll want to get out of I keepsie High School. Beacon High 1 town. BRING HER TO SARATOGA HOUSE 1 School, and West Nottingham I F I School. In Virginia the Admissions : or . . . On Route 9 South of Saratoga I Director will visit the Episcopal I dinner dates I High School, Christ Church School, : - Fea-luring - 1 St. Christophers, Stanton Military 1 parties I Academy, and Woodber1y Forest. I fraternity banquets B E R T A S S 0 1 Other schools to gain Mr. Wyatt's I club dinners His Accordian and the I attention will be Porte Military 1 , 1 Academy in Charleston South Car- 'I I f 1 D \ Electnc Organ 1 1 . . • t n orma ancmg 1 o ma; McCallts School, Chatanooga, 1 in the Cocktail Loun e W Tennessee; and Ashville School, I 1 g ED. thru SAT. from 7 P. M. I Ashville, Tennessee. I I I ---------- _ I t.------------------------------------------------4111 llr:mm:m:m:::m::m::m::m:mmmmmmmmmm::m:mm::mmm::mm::mm:::mm:::mii::::::::::~::::;;m::~:i:i:-:m:::::::::::m:::m:::m:::mmmm:::mm::::::mm ill ill I ~ ill THESE ARE THE ill I ~ WILL WEAR ill m m THIS FALL m I I iii H • '' It h followd Th • th''' -q\ \''' •••H\'+ \' ol '\ ill ::: the knee, It comes in <1 nymb~r of top-notch campus fabrics, ;;; m m m most popular of which i~ Cavalary Twill Reversible to Gaber- ::: m dine-others are Corduroy Reversible to Gabardine, and H; ill Poplin with a wool plaid lining. With slash or bellows pockets ill Ill ;:~::~:~::::·,:::.:.::._'\!::·::;\::::·::~·:.~·~:::,a: II ::: ::: m 5.95 to 27.50 m ~~ Get yo~~:~;~-~~~~~ at the ~~ m m 2nd Floor ill m We have received many signed petitions to be sent to Fred Waring, requesting him to play and sing Union songs on the eve- ning of November 7. As soon as all the sig- nfltures. are in, prabably Sa~urday, the peti- trons wrll be forwarded to Waring. Another petition is being sent to the band leader by President Fox, in the form of a note supporting the project. The president's letter has already been dispatche.d, STATE ST. llii .. I~Y 3-1131 ALBANY, N. Y. M: st1 n1c to: L~ ve Be wi bu m< in: wl UJl wl fr< Ct me ga cr< se< nic ·bo po bo cJr dh co to \ ti un co 1'0 na ca fir in

I I I I I ec- be a a on- He ber of a Of ' at low her cot- and the her I l I I I I I I I I I I I __ .. Ill ::: iii i~i ::: :::::::r~.: 3 SPORTS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1941 ------- $ ~J 1\ -~ ({ l' f) rr $ Garnet Knoc'ks at vermont Door Tomorrow N~either Team $ Has Tr •I.U•.·m. I p•he.d . ·Catamounts Pointing $ · For Initial Victory Juniors Swamp Seniors, 12-0, ! For Class Title l..!::::::::::=ny ,JACK I'EA.RsoN ~. y·h· s At Union's Expense It'J.l be \reunion Right\ at the ' •. :IS eason Burlington, Vt' Oct. 17.-Ver·- Middlebury Inn tonight. By some Union heads north tonight In mtmt's feotball team teok to the strange coincidence Nel's Nitch-: quest of its first gridiron victory. r·ead yesterday te rr.eet the Man- man's Colby team plays Middlebury The Dutchmen wi!I perform in a treal Bulldogs in an exhi·bition co:n- tomoHow afternoon, while Art definite underdog capacity against test for the 'benefit of \wings for Lawrence's Du.tchmen play the Uni- the University of VermoRt's scrap- Britain\ The game was staged versity of Vermont at Burlington. PY Catamounts at Burlington to- under the auspices of the Royal Both the Colby and UnioR teams morrow afternooR. Canadian Air Force. Sophs Beat Frosh By Na!\row Margin In Consolation By paralyzing the Senior team, 12-0, yestet·day, the Juniors success- fully defined their interclass touch football title. The Sophomores took a new lease on life an,i won the consolation game ft:om the Ft·esh- meR by a 1-0 score, by virtue of piling up more yardage in an over- time session. will spend toRigb.t at the Middle- Vermont aRd Union are in exaet- The Catamounts now point to- bury Inn, so Nels win be able to ward the1'r• t1'lt w1'th Unr'on Sat''l' ly the same boat, so far as vic- · · · ' · .,. - meet Art and his old team, besides day r·n an all out effort to chalk tcries are concerned. \Fuzzy\ ' · ·I- • introducing his Colby Mules, of. Evans' warriors have been bela- up their ini,tia1 win. Both teams whom he's so proud. bored by Northwestern, Trinity and are in the same boat in their re- Colby in that order. But, whereas spect, neither having seen the long UnioR has yet to register a score, end of a score this season. Ver- the Cats have been able to push mont displayed a fighting brand of across a couple of touchdowns. ball against Trinity, but the Green * * * Things will be rather congested in Middlebury tonight. Besides the Union and Colby football teams, the Union cross-country team will also spend the night there. , and -Gold attack bogged down No~th':l'estem pulle.d a f?-st m;e I against Colby. Union, on the other . by tr1pp1ng the Cats, 20-6, m thetr hand, gave Middlebury a real bat- opener. \V\Te never shouda lost it!\ tie and outplayed the Panthers for was the consensus of Vermont opin- a considera,ble part of the game. So hot was the Junior attack that the SeRiors never got a chance tCJ start their own offensive, which was expected to give the third year men something to worry about. * * * ion following this debacle. The fol- JowiRg week Vermont lost an early Poor old R. P. I. is a:ll brokeR lead and feel before Trinity, 9-7. UJ> over that 34-0 pasting its erst- The winners won the lucky w\l.y while Fighting Engineers took scoring on a 66-yard runback of a from Coast Guard. In fact, the 1 punt and a field goal. To top all Cherry and White has declared a this misfortune, Nels Nitchman·~ moratorium and won't even play a Colby Mules came along and game this week-end. The R. P. I. blanked the Catamounts, 13-0, last cross-countrymen a-re also idle. V\Te week-end. see by the \:Rensselaer Polytech- nic\ that . . . \The rest should do ·both squads some good. They are poiRting for Union on the 25th and beth should be easy winners. Union cropped its game last week to Mid- dlebury, 6-0, and the Union cross- country team never was anything 15th Game Union and VermoRt will be op· posing each other for the 15th time tomorrow. They first met in 1900. Union has won seven gamfH to Vermont's five with two ties thrown in. If it means anything, The series between the Cata- mounts and Union dates back to 1900. Saturday's game will be the tifteen.th in thie series, with Union the winner of seven games, Ver- mont ahead in five, and two ties. Coach Evans spared his regulars in the Montreal affair. His main objective is the Union game. Pros- pects towards this end were bright\ ened ·by the return of two veterans to the fold. \Whiz\ White, regular end who was injured in the Trinity game wHI be back in shape and will be joined by Mayforth, utility back who has not ·been available since the Cats' opening conte>t. Frankie England plucked one of Freddie Wikoff's ·passes out of the air for a touchdown midway in the first half. A moment later \Whitey·· Carnwright, who played a bang-up game, intercepted one of ''Pat\ Parsons' tosses and raced 20 y·a.rds to a second score without a man coming near him. On the iRitial play of the game Harry Stevens of the Sen-ior team caught a pass on the Juniors' four- yard line. Intramural Results to write home about.\ the Garnet has scored 120 collective O•--- Upset of the week in the intra- mural wheel was furnished when. the Neutrals, who have forfeited mm·e than their share of games, re- turned to their oldtime form and toppled unbeaten Beta Theta Pi, 8-7 winning in an overtime period by making the most yardage. * * * points to the Cats' 111. I . Just by way of emphasizing her Union, R. P. I. Rated importance, Lady Luck seems to Similarly on Grid Somehow WE\ think R. P. I.'s football team may be in for a !>urprise a week f.rom tomorrow. \<> for the cross-country situa- tion. We'd just like tn refuse the \never anything to writE\ home about\ statement by pointing out that Union holds a 10-8 edge over the R. P. I. harrieJ•s in the tra- ditional series, though the Engi- neers have reigned supreme in fo11r of the past five years. In fact Union never had a losing cross-country team until three l ears ago. The harriers had al- ways won more meets than they lo~t since the sport was begun here in 1913. * * * What next? R. P. I. announced 'esterday that it has signed Bill Ihrkness as coach of its 1942 la- c• osse team. Harkness resigned, under fire, as the Union stick coach two years ago. R. P. I. er- roneously C·redits him with origi- nating lacrosse at Union. Harkness came here in 1929. Union had its first intercollegiate lacrosse team in 1924. * * * Latest bulletin from the ni- Yersity of Rochester states that hereafter football players will be permitted to bring their entire families free to all home games! We'd hate to think what would hapven if such a plan were tried here. Bob Baker and his boys might come up with plenty o relatives! Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO .. Quality - Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values have deserted Union of late. Injuries have began to come thick and fast. It begins to look as if Captain Bub Baker's hip injury was even m<•t•e serious than thought at first. Bob Davis' mutilated finger is holdins; him on the sidelines. E'tew Gold· blatt's old peg leg is havin~ another kickup. Lee Sherman's ribs are in bad shape. Quarterback Earl K:·H- man suffered a leg injury in ye~· terday's practice. Aside from that. everything is rosy. Two years ago, Union's unbeaten team put on a second half blitz- krieg which flattened Vermont, 19-7. Last year Vermont rever;;ed the score against Union here, halt- ing the Garnet streak at 14 games without defeat. Because of their injuries and three straight reversals. the Dutch- men will rate as definite underdop (Continued on Page 4) ---------------- GOOD SHOES Since 1893 X-RAY FITTING PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. He's coming Why not try SONNY DUNHAM'S B-11305 My Foolish Heart and I and Nothing But Don't Forget TOMMY DORSEY'S 27617 Fifty Million Sweethearts Cant be Wrong and That Soild Old Man CASSEDY PIANO CO. 460 STATE ST Near Proctors Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM, ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 Other games saw Chi Psi nose Each week during the football! cut the stubborn Alpha Delta Phi season the Lambert football tru- ,·ombine and Kappa Sigma break phy committee issues a rating of the l':e'lrts of Kappa Nu, 7-6. Fa~tern inte:·collegiate. teams on a 1 Post..,oned games will be played tasts of thetr .respecttv~ perform-! 0 ff today and next week, according ances. Two years ago Umon led the to Commissioner Bill Ketz small college contingent. · Less fortunate this year, Union i.; rated down among such teams as R. P. I. The Fighting Engineers are temporarily rated nine points 1 MODE··R'N DINER :t>igher than Union, which has .721. Vermont i.s a point above R. P. I.. with .732 and Rochester has .737.1 Middlebmy is notched at .741, Ho-. Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER bart at .777, Hamilton at .807, Trin- ' ity at .810 and Williams at .865. I For the Finest in Seafood Dine at PELOP'S 438 STATE NEAR PROCTOR'S How to pick the best seat in class Pick some of ou1· Arrow Shorts today to wear at school. You'll he su1·e of the most comfortable seat iu class. At·~ow Shorts have no center seam to saw your crotch ••• they have no buttons to pop off, instead they have permanent Gripper snap·fasteners. Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than 1 '}\o) • 65eup Arrow Tops, a5e NTI7§!3~VM:? ·• Middlebury Marked For Slaughter By Garnet X -Country Tomorrow Football Contest Stakes in this week's CoRcordy football extravangaza are $40 and two tickets to Proctor's house ef hits! Pick the score of every game listed below on the nose and you win the big cash prize. If yeu pick more winners than anyone else, you win the two free tickets. In case of ties, the tickets are awarded to the gent who piclts the scores most correctly. Entry deadline is 10 o'clock to- morrow morning. Slip 'em into the Concordy mailbox on the first floor of Si!Uman hall. Here are the games: Cornell _ ...... . Army ....... .. Colgate ...•.... Columbia ..... . California .... . Dartmouth ... . Hobart ....... . Iowa .........• N.Y. U •...... Permsylvania. .. Rochester Termessee Tex. A. & M .. . Michigan ..... . Navy Yale Duke Georgia ...... . Oregon ....... . Harvard ..... .. Trinity ....... . Wisconsin .... . Syracuse ..... . Princeton .... . Allllherst Alabama ...... T. C. U •....... N'western ..... Name .......................... . Address Bill Ketz will look for his first varsity cross-country of the season tomorrow at Middlebury. He'll take seven runners along to help him look. Middlebury has never beaten Union in cross-country. Coach Ketz has worked his team very hard for the past two weeks to forestall any attempt on the part of the Pan- thers to turn In a win this fall. Mid- dlebury is stronger than it has been in several years. Wednesday afternoon the squad went thteugh a time trial over the rpgular 4.7 mHe course and the re- sult was pleasing. Five men fin- i~hed in better than 29:30, which is the best Ketz has had in two years. Snell Key Man Last year Union beat Middlebury 18% to 36';2. Co-Captains Don Col- lms and \Doc\ Maines, who have since graduated, tied for first. Charley Snell was ·right behind him. Ketz will count heavily upon him tomorrow. Paul Quinn, who has since dropped the sport, tied with Paul Schlieder of Middlebury for fourth. Bob Shepherd, who'll run tomorrow, finished eighth and Reed, who'll also be on hand, was ninth for Union. Several of the present Union har- riers didn't run against Middlebury last fall. One of them, Dick Conly, can mean a lot tomorrow. Then there are Herb Adams, Jules Vig- liemo and Bob Heywood. Middlebury has virtually the same team as last year, but has developed considerably.

iJiyt Qtn.ntnrh{tUliiS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17. 1941 FEATURE 4 ------~----~--------~------~~~---------------------=-~------------~------~----~----~-------------- Further Price D·iscre.pancies Found LETTERS TO TME EDITOR To the Edito1: The college has been justifiably proud of the amicable relations Music Department to Sponsor Symphonic Record Program In Chapel on Tuesdays Coaches Predict Football Results Cu.m:m:ings Spea.ks For Fine A·rts As Com:modity Inquiry Is Continued which have cha:racterized its his- For the first time since they were Coming up for this week's edi- tory and that of Schenectady. given to the college, students not tion of the gymnasium football Gown and town have co-operated in the music de.partment of the col- . contest, Hal Wittner and AI Ci- Fratt>rnity A B C D E F Eggs l dozen> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 39 39 45 42 50 Bacon l pound) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 32 32 25 25 35 Butter <pound> ...................... 43 39 40 38 39 45 G 39 24 39 10 Course Outlined In Chapel Talk H for the benefit of both. Far from lege will have a chance to hear t.he a.mpa are all tied up for first place: 43 being a·n army of worlters en- Carnegie record c01lection. with 26 winners in 33 gam·es. Right camped on the outskirts of Union Half hour \student request\ pro- behind are BHl Ketz and Art Law- 45 I College and commanded ·by Gen- graJ:?s will Etart a week from this renee with 25 winners each. \How can a ·course in fine arts be I eral Electric, howe\·er, Schcncctadv commg- Tuesday on the Capehart of most value? What kind of a Bread <loaf) . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. 11 10 9 lti 11 11 45 with Its Civic Players, Symphony, un er t~e di-rection o~ W. J. Still- Art Lawrence-Navy over Cor- questions George Bu·rton Cummings \ I d Here are the staf.f's g-uesses: course should it be?\ were the Oranges (dozen) .................... 40 33 33 40 39 Bananas <4 pounds> . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. . 25 25 32 32 Carrots (bunch) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 5 5 29, benefits, Junior League, and col- man, '4 · SUllman holds an NYA nell, Yale over Army, Duke over lecturer in the Fine Arts at u · ' 4; lcge-.:;ponsmed affairs affords a work scholarship and is curator of Colgate, Georgia. ov.er Columbia,, att-empted to answer in descr~b~I~nng, 1.85 I lively community life and fortu- the 1 ecords. 0 C 1 ~ D t th I regan ever a ~~.o~·ma, ~r mou : · the nature ef his ceurse in Daily Potatoes l 100 pounds l ............. 1.25 1.45 1.90 1.90 2.25 2.t5 Lettuce !head> ... .. .. .. . . .. 13 9 10 10 12'·\ 12 6'· 4 12 r.ate setting for our college. Tl1e Carnegie collection has never over Harvard, Tl'!mty 0ver Hebart, Assembly Thursday 391 For the:;e reasons, the present been loaned out to students because Iowa over Wisconsin, Syracuse· · friendly if strenuous struggle to of. fear that the valaable records over N. Y. u., Pennsylvan-ia over \•First of all,\ he stated, \it should Onions <10 pounds> ................. 30 40 29 29 58 25 Lemons l dozen> . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 29 29 MHk <quart> .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. . . .. .. . 13 12 12 12 Coffee Cream lpintl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 26 30 Steak 1 pound> 49 45 55 -~5 62 Hamburg (pound) .................... 39 22 26 25 11 25 39 121 secure adequate funds for support mrght be sc-ratched. The library Princeton, Amherst over Rochester, attack the prejudices, the miscon- of Schenectady's public library and records are heavily scratched from Alabama over Tennessee, T. c. u. ceptions, and the false notions tha:t 45 ; branches for the coming year is const:;mt use Stillman said. over Texas A. & M., and N 0 rth- so ·harmfully fog the real issue with 2 7 . r.ot understandable, especially since A. llst ?f the records in the col- wester·n 0 ver Michigan. a Philistine cloud.\ The purposes of i th~y have rated the reputation of lectwn wtll be posted. Concer.ts will Bill Ketz-Navy over Cornell, the course are then, to get to the bemg among the most uncl.erstaffed last for half an hour, startmg at Yale over Army, Duke over Col-· root of today's indifference, and to Hot Dogs <pound) .. .. .. . .. .. . . .. .. . 22 25 30 Much Waste Seen --- 01 ganizations of their size and type ?= 15 P. M .. They will be leng~hened gate, C01umbia over Georgia, ·Ore- place art in the program of a lib- Strong additional evidence in sup- I Johnson to Address ~~ An_rerica. The importance of the If student mterest warrants It. gon over California, Dartmouth erflll education by interpretation. port of the theory that Union fra- El • C II • l!branes to the forty thousand ----o--- over Harvard, Trinity over Hobart, Mediocre Al't ternities are wasting sizeable sums I mira 0 eglans \members who include defense Py.ramid Council Iowa over Wisconsin, Syracuse over of monPy t~rough thPir f.ailure to Professor Burges Johnson Chair- \\Orkers and numerous Union stu- <·Continued from Page 1) N. Y. U., Pennsylvania over Prince• In the past, Amelican art on the cooperate wtth one another in the I man of_ the field of English 'will be 1 dents h~s never be.en greater·, and ket refund for luncheon on the ton, Amherst over Rechester, Ten- whole has been characterized by buying- of commodities was received the principle speaker at th~ conv _ the abrllty to pay for the reason- Saturday of the Hamilton game nessee over Alabama, T. C. U. over mediocrity of expression. This has t?is w~ek as a s~aff of Concmdien- cation exerch;es at Elmira Colle 0 e a.ble .approxin;ate 19,000 appropria- when many of the students will Texas A. & M., and Northwestern happened because of our spending sts wnter~ contmued their survey in Elmira tomorrow recog izi~ uor: mcre?-se IS fortunately a!se at journey to Clinton for the game. over Michigan. of national energy in other direc- of prices fraternities pay. outstanding work by studen~s i~ a htgh pomt. Fifteen fraternities on the campus AI Ciampa-Navy over Cornell, tions. Men like Frank Lloyd Although it wa>' impossible to ob- the ui!l's college Students of the college who sup- have voted to close dining halls Army over Yale, Duke over Col- Wright, a well known American !~in the prices fr~m all the fratern- Dt~ Johnson's. address to the ~lement theiz· res~ar~h at our ov.:-n during this period, which was de- gate, Columbia over Georgia, Cali- architect, \have started the ball ~tles, ~hose sub.mitted showed sim- group will be on the \Technique of hbmry 111 the burldmg erected m clared a special recess by Dean fornia ever Oregon, Dartmouth rolling however because they had Ilar dt~crepan~res to those among Accomplishment:• 1 1 the campus corner bought from the Charles F. F. Garis when more over Harvard, Trin-ity over Hobart, something fresh to say and because the prices whrch were already on In the evening Dr Johnson will college, and town students whose than 300 Union students had pur- Iowa over Wisconsin, Syrachl.se over they professed a firm ·belief that file .. Once again differences in be feted by the Elmir.a alumni asso- famiUes. utilize its facili.ties s?ould chased tickets earlier this week for N. Y. U., Pennsylvania over Prince- was enUrely their own.\ q~allty ac:ount for some of the::;e elation of Union which includes be pa~·ttcularly ~nd actzvely mter- the game. ton, Rochester over Amherst, Ala- To those who have not been mov- drscrepancres. As be~ore, howev~r some of Elmira's leading business P~ted 111 the attamment of the $75,- The Pyramid Council will accept bama over Tennessee Texas A. & cd beyond the sensations of mere there are many drfferences m men among whom are truste , f 660 sum requested for next year. In reservations for tickets from neu- M. over T. C. U., and Northwest- p·hysical existence by a work of prices of ~oods .of the same grade. both' Union and Elmira Col~:g~s. vie':\ ?f ~he ~~erican Library As- tt·als at the cider party in cooper- ern over Michigan. art, Mr. Cummings counsels, \Keep In keepmg wrth the stated plan Principles Albert Helmkamp and soczatwn s mmrmum standard of ation with the Terrace Council Hal Wittner-Navy over Cornell, ooking\. \Sooner or later, some of. actio~ in the e~u·~ier article~ in Clifford McNaught of the Elmira I about $_90.000 a year. as necessary drive. Yale over Army, Duke over Colgate, painting. a piece of sculpture, a th.rs senes. no deftr~rte concJ.u.swns High Schools and four outstanding I to a hbrary handlmg ~rom ?OO Under consideration by the Pyra- Georgia over Columbia, Oregon building, or some bit of glass, fur- wtU be drawn untrl all .available high school students will be spe- to 600 t~ousand columes. cn:cul~t.ton mid Co1:1ncil for next v.eek is a over California, Dartmouth over niture or silver, will awaken the evtdence has been compiled. AI- cia'! guests at the alumni meeting. annual!~. the new goal rs JUStified. smoker or a tea dance following Harvard, Trinity over Hobart, ~enses and the possessive instinct though no evidence which is not 0 ___ Moreover, of forty five American the RPI game. Iowa over Wisconsin, Syracuse over The rest of us and here we hold a carefully documented will be used PLEDGE NOTICE'i libraries of comparable size, Sche- N. Y. U., Pennsylvania over Prince- large majority . . . once having for the final analysi:;, it is intet est- nectady ranks a miserable thirty- CALENDAR ton, Amherst over Rochester, Ten- known the experience will continue ing to note that off-the-record con- Delta Chi Fraternity announces stxth in the matter of funds given nessee over Alabama, Texas A. & to enjoy it. A course in the history h I d . Tomorrow M versations have already brought for t e P e gmg of AI Ra~so ··1:.! of for uplteep. Out of the nine libra- D . 1 · over T. C. U., and Northwest- of art can help us to heighten this s h t d ru :~· Assembly-Speaker, Donald M h' many stories of opportunities for c enec a y. ries with the same physical size, E. Abood, , 43 . Memorial Chapel, ern over ic rgan. pleasure.\ savings which have been. and, in The Phi Gamma Delta frater- none were as understaffed. 10 a. m. some cases, still are -being, missed. nitr announces the pledgtn,.{ uf Don For most students who compla- v · St - 43 arslty Football-- Union vs. Uni- Next week's article will contain evens, · cently enjoy the unrestricted use · verstty of Vermont at Burling- a further compilation of fraternity o---- of the Union Library, the one just ton. prices, as well as similar compila- Upon returning from a visit to down the hill may have little ap- \' ... yracuse Ahrmnat> Luncheon tion of the prices charged in a se- R. P. I. yesterday aftet·noon, Hal 1>eal ot· significance. Those who • Hale House, 1 p. m. Iection of near-by markets. Wittner disclosed that officials already belong as well as those h t d Varsit:~· Cross Country-Union vs. ---o---- t er·e ~ta e ·they would need 900 who contemplate membership how- M' · k , rddlebury at Middlebur\. r.·dmarsh to Feature tiC ets GO meet the demand for ever, and favor the campaign, fray. 0 t• c J u mg lub Trip t.o North Creek Debussy, Bach, Wid or .;eats a:t the Union-R. P. I game r eque:;t or whatever· you make of A.A.U.W.Sculpture Exhibit-Han- Beginning his five hundred und first organ recital at Union Col- lege, Dr. Elmer· A. Tidmarsh, di- rector of music will feature the works of Bach, Debussy and Widor this Sunday afternoon :n !\iemot'ial Chapel. Included on the program will be Bach's .. Prelude and .Wugue in G Major,\ ••Journey of the Night Watchman\ and \In Thee Is Glad- ness\; Claude Debussy·~ \Clair de Lune,\ \Second Arabesque.\ \'l'he l\.:Iaid With the Flaxen Hair'' and the \Ballet From Petite Suite\: and the andante, chorale and finale of Charles Marie Widor·,; \Sym- phony Gothique.\ Dr. Tidmarsh·s recital 'Vill be the fifth in the cmrent 17th annual series. -·\ ---0---\ VERMONT GAME 1 Continued from Page 3) at Burlington tomorrow. Neverthe- less, a large delegation of student fans is expecting to make the 130- mile trip. Head Coach Art LawrenCI' 'l.'.'ill probably have to start a patched- up lineup. Greg McKennis and Cliff Platt will probably start on the wings with Doug Slingerland and Bill Hill as the tackles. Han:ey Kayne, \Tiger·· Alberts or Stew Goldbll;l.tt and Bruno Schulze as the guards. Captain Bob Baker will make another stab at playing cen- ter. The touted all-senior backfield combination of Lee Sherman, Ed Enstice, \Red\ Killian and Sherry Billick will probably start the game. Sherman may not be able to play. however, in which case Klar- man will get the call to start. 0 NOTICE All men who put nickels in the Pepsi-Cola machine now situated on the second floor of Silliman Hall and received no drink in r e- turn are requested to repon t:-tere to irlPntify thE>ir coins which will be promptly and chep,·fullv re- turned. We are happy to annuunce that the Pepsi-Cola machine is now worlting correctly. Pleasant Valley Meat Market here next week. it, are urged to send a card or let- UBS Programs 640 Kilocycles ter or to call Mayor Mills Ten Eyck saying just that. The letters which have poured in from the townspeople themselves leave with doubt as to their acceptance of the additional three fifths of a cent ad- 5·15--Tea Dance Time dition to their tax dollar. Even 5:30 News from The Concot-1 rally night invasions of State Street diensis and college pranks would doubtless 5 :35-For Your Enjoyment 1 ?e received with 1 enewed tolerance 7:15-Campus caravan m t~e future after such ~ demon- 7. 3 0--Cl . f h stratron of concerted soc1al effort · assrcs o t e Wurlcl l by Joe College during a lapse of 7:45- News from The Cor• cor- seriousness which can result in his diensis good deed of the year. W. S. ---- Call Ball and Ball Will Call PHONE 6-3456 WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY co. CORNER STATE and CENTER STREETS Gates Knock- Abouts Excellent for driving and all around wear Slip-on gloves of pigskin, Goatskin, Mocha, Suade, and Cafeskin na Hall, 3-5:30 p. m. Sunday Stmday Service-Preacher, Rev. George Hugh Smyth, Hichcock Memorial Church, Scarsdale, Memorial Chapel, 11 a. m., Broadcast over WGY. FRANKIE CARLE again on Columbia Records •Somebody Loves Me I Know That You Know •Swinging Down the Lane The Love Nest 4i1After You're Gone I can't believe tl::at your in love with me. •Sweet and Lovely The One I Love at Radios - Phonographs Your Record Headquarters Cluett & Sons 508 State St., Hotel Foster Bldg. A \MUST\ In Saratoga with Union Men and their Dates THE INN Featuring \DAVE .. at the Piano Playing your requests JOHNNY PARRISH, Prop. CAROLINE ST. ~:~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••II•••••••••\ • 5 CREAM-CREST : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Vitamin D Milk 5 • • : Supplies that needed energy for the : : coming winter months. : • • • • : GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. : • • • For Service Phone 4-3121 : • • ~••••••••••••••••••m•••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ House of Sunshine Meat Products Now $2.95 up Each time you taste ice-cold Coca-Cola, you are reminded that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience ••• many a refreshing experience ••• has taught people every .. where to trust the quality of Coca-Cola. 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 BOTTlED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 152 Erie Blvd. Schenectady, N. h ~ E sid evi pe. nu Go thi COl in~ set me fie be ev1 ad pn M! dr• m~ pa W2 ric He Os Ne sic af1 of fet of tic J ch in wi co Pr Sy w fa• ve fr1 m! an co no WE If B fa th pa in au di· m: te• of is lel fa pi: m, fo th ha th th da A. of D: da ar et 50 be ta th wl ar: en w: m ur ti< to be w: tr or p~ pe m A: sc

a ing hat of the to lib- the by has oyd can ball had of a fur- the net a this .. .; • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • liP. College • • 'Rigoletto' Enrollment Survey Page 2 ts Production Pictures Page 4 The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV. Number 12 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941 Price Sc ln~;ustry Meets I Nentra! Comm~ters Meet To Select lOuting Club Offered Hunting lodge With G_ov.ern.:m.ent PyramzdCounczlMembersThursday T . ··R ·I . O·ld ·N·· h ( k ( b. Education Today ~~7,·~=~~~;~;. :;::: ,. by Carl Consoglio of s:~;~-~olle~~. 0 . . e p ace . . . ort ree a In who is in charge of the dance. • Fourth Annual 'Conference In Hanna Hall Sa1urda.y On Industry, Government' Non-fraternity tnen who live in Scheneetady and vieinity will or- tn Session •On Campus ganize at a meeting in Silliman . Han at 1 p. m. Thursday to elect . De?1cated t<;> the puq~ose of C'~n- 1 delegates to the Pyramid Council,. st~ermg poss1ble solutwns ~ 0 m- neutral executive body. evttable post-war problems m up- per New York State, the fourth an- nua'l Conference of Industry and Government opened on the campus this morning at eleven o'clock. The conference, inaugurated this morn- ing with a meeting of the repre- sentative& of sixteen of the fore- most up-state industries, state of- ficials and educational heads, will be culminated in Hale House this evening with a dinner and keynote address by Thomas J. Watson, president of International Business Machines, Inc. Jason Tepper, '42, who was elect- ed to the Pymmid Council by town men attending the neutral cider party last Friday evening, is call- ing the meeting. Two other repre- sentatives to the counci'l and class committeemen will be elected Thmsday. The Pyramid Council has an- nounced that an aU-neutral dance will be held in Hanna Hall Sat- urday night beginning at 8 o'clock in connection with the R. P. I. game. Several novelty numbers and special features are being arranged Although reconded music wiH be I used for dancing, Robert G. Hines Possible New 'Ski Haben' is organizing a band for occasional \jam\ intermissions. Executive Committee Accepts Proffered House Today All neutrals wHl be admitted to I the dance on p1 esentation of their .------------------, dues certification cards. A social 1 1 fund with a first semester dues of one dollar per man was set up at the neutral business meeting last week In addition to Satmday's dance, scheduled events the dues j wiH cover include a beer party Saturday, November 1, and a ·Grid- iron Ball booth. In cooperation with the new neu- tral organization, N. Waddel! Cease, manager of Hale House, announced that tegular Hale House diners may be hosts to faculty members and their wives at dinner any eve- ning with guest checks defrayed I by the management. Bulletin The Outing Club executive committee vott>d this after- noon to accept Stillman's of- f«>r, G«>rhard Leubner, '43, prPsident, announce~ at 1:45 p. m. today. Outing Ciub members are this week considering the offer of W. James Stillman, '42, of a hunting lodge at Bearsville, N. Y., to be This morning's meeting was ad- dressed by Mr. D. C. Prince, Chair- man of the General Electric Com- L pany's Planning Department, and ocal was followed by a discussion pe- riod. Luncheon at 1:15 In Hale House was followed by a talk by Oswald D. Heck, speaker of the New York State Assembly. Discus- sion continued through most of the afternoon as the officials of three of America's great ·institutions con- ferred on the important problem of preparing for post-war condi- Retailers' Price Investigation Proves Quotations Fraternities' Differ Widely, 'Economy' False Fire Still Burns In 'Ski Haben' Peel, Sertl Report ' used in place of the club's North Creek cabin, which burned on Oc- tober 9. The club's executive com- mittee met at noon today to ap- point a special committee to con- sider the proposal, according to Gerhard W. Leubner, '43, president of the club. A group of Outing Club members went with Stillman Saturday to in- spect the lodge, which is located near Woodstock, N. Y., some 60 miles from Schenectady. They found several good ski trails, some of which were· repot'ted to look very difficult. However, they also dis- covered a number of intermediate trails and beginners' trails and slopes which were also said to be in good condition. The expert trails also include some good spots for ski-jumping, Stillman said. tions in this area. Professor Mortimer F. Sayre is chairman of the Union committee in charge of the conference, and, with Dr. Dixon Ryan Fox, is ac- companied at the conference by Professors W. W. Bennett, H. F. Sylvester, R. A. Hall, and B. P. Whitaker, of the college faculty. Other colleges represented by faculty members are Syracuse Uni- versity and R. P. I. A delegate from the State Education Depart- ment in Albany is also in attend- ance. The area embraced by the conference includes all industries north of the Mohawk River as far west as Rot hester. ---·0--- •Rigoletto' to Draw Big Student Group Bishop Named WSS Executive Campus Chest Chairman Elected +o Committee Post at Utica Meeting Robert Bishop. '43, Chairman of the Campus Chest, Friday was elected to the New York State Ex- ecutive committee of the World Student Service fund at a 1941-42 campaign organization meeting in Utica. Amang those present at the con- ference were delegates from Skid- more, Williams, Smith, Hamilton, Colgate, Vassar, Wells and Russell Sage Colleges and Oneonta State Nmmal School. The half-hundred delegates from up-state campuses heard Robert Mackey of the World Studuent Christian Federation ex- plain present work accomplished among destitute students ·by the \I could not afford to live at~•>------------------­ Fire still burns in the shell of the prices some fraternities here are paying for food,\ Professor George H. Danton stated to Con- cordiensis \food-price investigators'' today. \To mention an example, some houses have paid fifteen cents apiece for eggplant while I have purchased the same thing at five cents apiece,\ he continued. This statement proved to be far more true than might be expected, when Concordiensis staff members visited many area markets and food stores, continuing the survey of fraternity food costs, carried on the pages of this paper for the past two weeks. \Ski Haben,\ James Peel, '42, generally cheaper prices, and in and William Sertl, '42, reported much smaller quantities, than are today. The cabin was razed by the fraternities on this campus. fire more than a weelt and a half Next and most conclusive is the ago. evidence most recently gathered. The two visited the remains of Perishable goods, such as fresh the cabin over the weekend when vegetables, have provided the most they attended a ski conference at pertinent figures. Onions, for in- North Creek. They said that the stance, are sold at one market pa- large store of ooal which the Out- tronized by several fraternities, for ing Club had placed in the base- a price which at present is quoted ment of the centm-y-old cabin at twenty-nine cents for ten was still burning. There was no pounds. At another market, equally danger of the fire spreading to popular with Union house mana- the surrounding country, they gers, a six cent increase in price added. for the same amount was noted. Parts of the stove still re- About a half-mile from the cabin there is a commercially operated ski tow, with a number of good trails, Stillman said. He said that the trails near the lodge were kept in good condition by the logging work which is carried on in the summer and fall. Lodge Good Condition In earlier investigations on cam- Still another market quoted this mained in th«> cabin, as did the pus, it had been found that there commodity at forty cents. Similar silV'el' and glassware-both of were tremendous discrepancies ex- figures were recorded from these which had been reduced to a isting among the prices being paid markets on such other goods as moulten state. None of the beams by different fraternities to corre· eggs, bananas, carrots, potatoes, remained, but the wreckage was The lodge :s in good condition, sponding food products. Latest re- and lettuce. In the case of each of covered by the tin roof. The elec- Stillman said, with similar facili- ports have led to what may well the above-mentioned articles, sig- tric stove was completely de- ties to those at the old North Creek be the source of these differences, nificant differences were found to strayed. cabin. Although, like the North namely, unscientific buying. exist. Creek \Ski Haben,\ the lodge has There can be little doubt that On the basis of these facts and no electricity, there is a large fire- f t •t · t · · f of other's prt'nted 1 ·n prev·ous 1 1 ·ssues, Gridiron Ball Tickets place, a good-sized porch, and a ever·y ra ern1 y IS s nvtng or economy. Not only is economy nee- at least one undeniable conclusion Are Put On Sale Today stream with drinking water about 30 or 40 Skidmore Girls Will Attend Performance At Mont Pleasant Thursday fund . Dean Margaret Bridgman Skidmore presided . Mackey Speaks essary for good house management, may be drawn. Many houses are 30 yards away. of but it proves to be invaluable in unknowingly wrecking their sys- Tickets for the Interfraternity Recounting the history of the making 1 ushing jobs easier. Econ- tern of economy by assuming that Ball will go on sale this aft- lodge, Stillman said that it had omy within the houses is undoubt- the best economy is' an independ- ernoon, Benjamin Leland, '42, been used by his brother until edly practised, but beyond that, no ent one. What the solution is to this Chairman of the Ticket Commit- 1934. Since that time it has been house appears to have gone. For, problem of inefficient buying is tee, announced yesterday. at the disposal of the students of in the light of the survey, no house one which rests with the fraterni- Fraternity salesmen will be those St. Stevens <now Bard) college. has yet submitted figures which ties themselves. Some sort of co- student9 elected to the Interfrater- However, these students have made would point to it as an economical- operative purchasing plan, even if nity Council. The neutral represent- little use of the lodge, and when ly-efficient organization with re- it provided only for a system of atives are James Stillman Alexan- Stillman came to Union he put it gard to food buying. price list interchange, would be der Arony, and Alexander Max-. at the disposal of students and fac- An excellent representation of Mr. Mackey reminded the dele- faculty members and students at gates that \issues of the war have the American Civic Opera Com- ·to be thought out as well as fought pany's performance of \Rigoletto\ out\ and that in Europe, China and in the Mont Pleasant High School Canada are millions of students auditorium on Thursday was pre- \cast aside\ in the struggles of arm- dieted last night by W. James Still- ies with \time on their hands.\ man. '42. chairman of the commit- He told of visiting prison camps tee of Glee Club members in charge in Germany last year which now of arrangements. The production hold two million prisoners, includ- is under the sponsorship of the col- ing some of the most intelligent lege Glee Club, men and women in Europe. At Besides the Union students and present, Mr. Mackey is directing faculty member~ who haY!' made assistants in studying the thous- plans to attend, some 30 or !0 Skid· ands of prisoners interred in Cana- more girls have purchased tickets dian camps. for the opera. Stillman said that Into these camps, the World Stu- the sale of tickets to Union mpn dent Service fund is sending secre- has been hampered somewhat by · taries who 01 ganize schools of pris- the fact that most fraternities hold oner teachers and prisoner students their weekly meetings on Thur;:;- 'furnishing books and other educa- days. Nevertheless, when Dr. Elmer 'tiona! needs and even arranging A. Tidmarsh, Director of Music, for prisoners to win college degrees offered tickets for sale after his while interred. Daily Assembly program last Fri- Help is also being given to Chi- day, he succeeded in selling aJn,ost nese students who are seeking to all he had with him. Student tick- study for the future in refuge uni- ets will be on sale thid we.;k for vetsities, 50 cent5. ----o---- Two versions of the opem will be used; that of the matinee being tailored to the understanding of the school children of the city, while the evening performance will appeal specifically to the adult audi- ence. At both performances, a narrator will tell the story of Uw opera, making a previous study of the plot unnecessary and allowing the ac- tion on the stage and the mu.sic to be enjoyed to the utmost. In both cases, a \streamlined\ version will be used, with much of the ~x­ traneous material present in the original form eliminated. The American Civic Opera l'Om- pany has specialized in operatic performances expressly direcr.ed to meet modern Americu.n tastes. Abridged versions of the classic score have preserved the action (Continued on Page 4) Value of Youth Movements Discussed at Town Meeting \The rapidity with which changes have taken place in our social or- der during the past ten years should be cause for great concern,\ said W. Frank Markle, superintend- ent of schools of Suffern, N. Y. at the second Empire State Town Meeting of the year on Sunday. \The part that youth played in the rapid rise of totalitarianism. should be sufficient warning,\ he said. Mr. Markle and Miss Louise B. Morley, conference secretary of the International Student Service of the United States, acted as leaders in the discussion of the question. \Does America Need a Youth Movement?\ The program was broadcast by WGY First pr oaf of such unscientific almost certain to prove beneficial well. Tickets may also be had at 1 ulty here . purchasing is of course indicated to all, except in the case of a gen- the Bookstore and at Hale House. Since most of the Outing Club by Dr. Danton's statement. Beyond era! and consistent price rise The price of the tickets is $3.30, trips .. were planned with \Ski this one instance, there must be throughout the city, a possibility but will definitely be raised to four Haben as a headquarters, few of thousands of Schenectady house- which seems, at present, rather un- dollars November 5 two days be- the college community have taken wives who are buying food for likely. fore the dance. ' advantage of his offer, Stillman --------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------- said. Freshmen Down Sophomores_ in Saturday Cane Rush. Win Tug-of-War. But Suffer Loss in Tomato Battle ----0---- Nickerson Falls Again, Still Remaining Unhurt Evidence is fast being accumu- By ROBERT HAYNER At exactly two-thirty Saturday afternoon, Profes:;;or Augustus H. <Gus) Fox pulled the trigger on the pistol used to start the annual Sophomore-Freshman Cane Rush on Council Field. Just four minutes and forty-five seconds later Gus pulled the trigger again, this time signifying the end of hostilities. During that short space of time, all thirteen canes had been dis- posed of, in one way or another. Five had been rushed over the op- posing goal line by numerically su- perior gr·oups of freshmen. The eight others had been \scuttled broken by desperate Sophomores in a canny bit of strategy before the 1945 horde bore down upon them. Thus, on the hard surface of Coun- cil Field, did the third Cane Rush of the \modern era\ pass into his- tory. much, in outcome, like the other two, with the yearlings com- ing out decisively on top. In the other two events on the afternoon's program, always more or less secondary to the main \go the tug of war and the tomato bat- tle, honors were split between the two classes, with the courageous lit- tle force of sophomores out-tactic- ing their less-experienced oppon- ents in the ripe-fruit fracas, and . . lated to the effect that the coming the yearlings winning the pull over were proud of t~e fm: showmg the of the class of '45 brought Union Hans Groot Kill with ease. class had made m theu deb•tt. Pay- an India-rubber man with a Fighting off an early freshman ing tribut: to. the couragec>us :n-1 charmed body. Don Nickerson, '45, advance upon their stronghold in emy, he Implied that even wrth I who fell ft•om a fourth story win- the woods bordering Council Field, greater numbers the .sophomo;~s dow in South College on October in the annually spontaneous to- could not ~av~ coped, wtt~ ~he sptn.t 7 and escaped with only a few mato fight, the Sophomores coun- and ?,rgamz:;rtr~~ of 45: r.m co~f;- bruise~. last week accomplished a ter-attaeked with such severity dent, he sa;d, that tht~ ft~e spu:1t similar feat with equal luck. as to drive the enemy back in what of cooperahon and soh,darrty Will When Nickerson and a group of was almost a rout. The Freshmen last not only through ~h 1 :' year, bt...t other Outing Club men went to rallied at the new position, how- als? t~.roughout our entrre stay at Bearsville, N. Y., to inspect the ever, and the battle continued there Umon. hunting lodge offered by Jim Still- until the \ammunition\ supplies of Highly disappointed waa sopho- man, '42, as a headquarters for both sides were used up. ~:?o the more leader Clowe, who estimated j Outing Club ski trips this winter, Sophomores, under President • 1 ohn- that his forces were outnumberetl 1 they found the roof covered with ny Clowe, managed to save v>hat by about five to one. The expected pine needles. Nickerson, who must was left of their honors of the strength from the fraternities was I have a yen for high places, volun- day. found to be quite non-existent, a.nd teered to sweep the needles away. The tug-of-war resulted in a vic- the cane-breaking tactics were the When he had finished his task, tory for the freshmen, although only hope for the smaller gruup. he rejected other plans of descent their satisfaction must have been According to Clowe, severa.l fra- to the ground and decided to jump. lessened by the fact that, rather ternities were not represented !Jy Leaping gaily into mid-air, he no- than be dragged through the muck even one man, and the brunt of ticed, on his way down, as it were, and slime of the \Brook that the attack was borne by city boys., that his journey earthward would Bounds,\ the few remaining par- \I don't know what could ha\·e hh.p- be about four feet longer than he ticipants from 1944 quickly let go of pened,\ said John between teclt's,, had judged and would end, un- the rope, apparently valuing their \lots of fellows who promised to' avoidably, in a roclt pile. dry state of dress more highly than be there never showed up. If they However, he alighted upon tre the honor of victory. had, it might have been a differ- rock pile with the practiced ease Freshman President Ed Bates, ent story.\ of a bird, suffering not a scratch, who shortly afterward perched atop Saturday, however, was the end and thereby creating the impres- the historic idol as the freshmen of the story for the Class of 1944, sian that either his luck or his gathered to sing in victory, said and this isn't Brooklyn. Ther<J physique is something extraot·di- later that he and the entire class won't be any \next year\ for them. nary.

WQt O!nnrnrbiruBts TUESDAY, ocToBER 21, 1941 EDITORIAL 2 Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and di.s~ trrbutor of the Collegiate Digf;St Itepresentett for :\'ational Actnrrising by Xationul Advertismg Sen- ice. Inc .. CollE>ge Publi:>il· er:::: l!t presentative. 4~U <l1nnrnr 5 to 20 per cent Enrollment Decreases Are Suffered By Most Colleges This Year ~---------------- .)1-adi~un A \'enue, ~ t'\\ \'orl< Cny. \.l Causa Persa Parole .lssai\ JS,inoria'l Office. S1lliman I hill. l:mon College. Pub- lieatiol! Uff:ce. The Ga- .z;ent:- l're:::::::t 334 State ::St. ElltL.red iit the ~c.heu~:c­ tan~· 1:-'u~t 01 1 UL't: i.C3 ~cl:­ ond Cla.so CilaH .\latter. ;:;uu~t'nptwu iic a ropy; $3 yt:aJ ; deUv~r~d uuywh~re !II tne l:niteLl :State~. U'nion Esca,pes General Cut as Approximately Same Number Return draft and also the monetary at- fewer, twelve report 10 per cent traction of industrial defense jobs. fewer and two still heavier de- Senior Hourd Armand Y. Feigeu~uum ................... Kappa ::-:u Huu~~-~-733-1 ............................ I::dltor.!n-Chiei JUbllll PHlbi.Hn ........................... Kappa ::-:u lluu,;c~-1-7331 ........................ Bu•iness )hlllag·er Solomon Blechman ............... 1~ ~lh1dle ::kctiou, ::-:unb Cl'!kgc- G-9966 ........•...••.... -'lanng·Ing· lid! tor ~Junut:han Puur-:,un . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . ...;i!!rna· Phi Pl3.l't· -- !- 1 13:!1 ..•............•...••....... Sports Editor Samlll·l P.ortllo) . . .. . . . .. . . . . Kappa :\'u Huu,.c-~-•~31 .......................... As>ociate Editor Juniur 1\oartl-Hoht'l't llu;yncr. Tl!uJna~ O'CulliiUl'. Har- vev Io,b!tlnJnt·. Jal'l~ :Sctmlz, G·r:....ngl!r T1 ipp. :--.=orman F~x. ~l~lff Plwtu~ra·pnt·t Souhomot·t• Jloard- Thoma.~ Culleli. \\'illiarn Han. AI· bt>i·t Kronick, Ellw:.tni J~~nn:-:.ot!. ~eynwur TlliCl{mau. llu•iue\ Staf.f -- ~helv11le :\le,;H,llg.,r, Dand Ho:;enl>lum. :\latTill Ct:t,mt:'r. Etl!ttH' ..... . ... {;mugt•r Tt'ipJI . ..,.. In contrast to the gener·al b•end emphasized· in the following sur- vp~·. Union College suffered a drop of only seven men in total ent·oll- ment this year. Last year <72 stu- dents were enrolled, while the fig- ure at the opening of school this yP-ar was 765. creases. The most favor abl'e showing as to mstitutional type is found in the 376 independent colieges of arts and sciences. In this classification ninety-six colleges report gains of 5 pet' cent to 25 per cent, 102 retain about the same enrollment as last Jfall and 178 have losses of 5 to 25 per cent. Tuesday, October 21, 1941 liy RAYMOND W ALTER..'l l'res~dt>nt of the Univt>rsity of Cincinnati These influences of the national emergency upon masculine· em ali- ment ai'e emphasized by the statis- tics of the 101 colleges for women tncluded in this survey. Of these thirty-eight report inct,eases in en- rollment, thirty-nine approximately the same number as last Fall and only twenty-four report decrease£. Moreover. in most co-educational institutions it appears that women students are a large factor in main- taining enrollment this year. Comments have been received u.pon the grave financial problems which pr·actically all universities and colleges face in consequence of decreased income f.rom tuition fees especially fel-t in view of lower yield on endowment Junds. The f arty-three independent tech· r.ological institutions in this survey supply thirteen tnstances of enro:·l- ment gains, eight which maintain the 19-10 !eve·! and twenty-tw0 which report dect·e-ases of 5 to 15 per cent WE CELEBRATE A VICTORY Decreases of 5 to 20 per cent or more as compared with a year ago mai·k the enrollment this Fall of full-time students in a large ma- jority of American colleges and universities, as shown in official statements just .received from 573 approved institutions in a'll parts of the United States. Of this total, 331 report fewer students, 125 re- port ap.proxirnately the same nt,tm- ber and 117 report more students than a year ago .. Vet·y heavily hit are the indepen- dent teachers' colleges. Of sixty- four surveyed none has m01·e stu- dents, only five hold the enrollment they had last Fan and the remain- der !'ecot·d losses extending from '5 to 25 per cent or more. Sattu·day evening last, a variety of inci- dents took place throughout this section of the East which seemed to have no connect- ing link beyond the exube1·ance and sheer joy displayed in all of them. Rahar's, in Northampton, was shaken from its air of indifference toward college football victories when a newsboy ran through, sell- ing, as usual, football extras headlined by Harvard's upset of Dal'tmouth but shouting \Union beats Vermont, 7-6\. Later, in the same establishment, a group of individuals who had previously been seen talking to the newsboy joined with other young men in the singing of songs with such titles as \We Traveled Down the Mohawk Vale\ and \Dutchman's Song.\ Stolid Vassar matl'ons were startled out of thei1· contemplation of the better portions of Ovid's l\letamorphoses by a series of war whoops, some locomotive yells, and a variety of \Who won, we won\ monologues. Several Saratoga establishments, whose purpose is the dispensing of alcoholic bever- ages, were treated to the spectacles of size- able choruses of men singing victory songs and shouting dialogues characterized by \What was the score ... 7-6 ... who had seven ... we had seven.\ Stolid Schenectady burghers, prepared for no colleg·e invasion of their town before Fri- dny, October 24, were driven from drowsing peacefully ove1· their pipes by a senes of ~heers m~d songs. Severa·l cars rolling through the sh'eets of BHrlington after the football game on the Ve1mont gridiron were heard to leave a wake of cheers. These cm·s were filled with men who had made the three hour trip to l'Oot fer a football team which had not yet won or scored. Any number of young ladies, all classified at the moment as \dates\, exhibited varying degrees of respr:mse to the vitality displayed by their escol'ts who insisted on making sure that everyone within a radius of an eighth of a mile had been apprised of the fact that the1·e had been a football victory to the score of 7-6. That there was a connecting link between these events was apparent only to those men of assorted ages whose chief tie is their at- tachment to the Union community. These men knew that Union was cele- brating her victory over Vermont, a victory which had brightened the outlook on life for a great number of students who had been displaying the best college spirit the institu- tion had seen in years, had supported their football team through dark days, and were seeing their faith in their squad justified. Public Institutions Hard Hit That the forty-nine State and other public universities are heavH:<,. hit i·n the present situation is dis- closed by an analysis 0.f the statis- tics. Only four report attendance . gains, while twenty-two have losses In explanation of these sharp· of approximately tO per cent and losses, after many years of rising . three losse~ of about 15 per cent. attendance, two factot·s are cited Somewhat lighter are the reces- by collegiate administrators: The ';ions of forty-one universities un- effect of Se-lective Service regula- der private control. Four of these tions both in the actual number of , have more students than last Fall men students drafted for mHitary , and nine the same number. As to service and those anticipating the .lcr,:;oes, fourteen report 4 per cent The universities questioned were not asked to differentiate as to cunicula, but it is apparent that enrollment in their law schools is greatly t·educed. Medical attend- ance is the highest on record and engineering departments are like- wise largely attended. This is due to Selective Service regulations, by which students in medicine, engi- neering and certain scientific fields are e:igible for deferment by local draft boards as \essential men.\ PERCENTAGE CHANGES IN COLLEGE ROLLS No. 49 41 376 43 64 FALL, 1940-FALL, 1941 Classi.fication Universities, public ......................... . Universities, private ........................ . Colleges ................................... · · Technological institutions .................. . Teachers' colleges .......................... . 1 2 1 Increase 3 6 1 573 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 3 7 Increases, 117; no change, 225; decreases, 331. Total, 573. 101 Women's colleges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 4 69 Men's colleges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 1 Women's-Increases, 38; no change, 39; decreases, 24. Total, Men's Increases, 17; no change, 20; decreases, 32. Total, 69. 1 1 26 5 33 10 4 101. <11 bO 1'1 ol .<:: u 0 z 2 1 3 9 59 102 6 8 5 22 14 83 15 4 Decrease 19 12 51 5 16 3 1 24 2 22 70 125 138 103 52 22 10 39 20 13 22 3 6 8 3 1 15 11 27 1 5 6 11 Although space limitations prohi-~----------------------~~--- · ~------------------------~ AND THE WASTE GOES ON bit our printing the complete com- I pilation of 1\lr. Walters' survey, we' . include here a few representative THE CORN IS GREEN \A Yank In The R. A. F.\ can't miss. From its conception, it couldn't miss. It teams Tyrone Power and Betty Grable, which is sure fire. It teils an action yarn, which is always good box office. It's about a topical subject, which is just dated enough to make it seem historical. And, believe it or don't, it doesn't preach. So con- grats Mr. Zanuck, yam· Yank has scored a dil ect hit. John Tunis, Author, Here Tomorrow The first phase of The Concordiensis' in- vestigation of commodity prices demon- strated conclusively that large variations in prices paid for foods exist among the sev- eral ft·atemities and that these variations are not to be explained in terms of quality alone. Further investigation has shown that there is no Union fraternity that is \low\ on all prices. In view of their being no \model house\ in respect to economic efficiency in purchasing, it becomes plain that every fra- ternity in the college is bearing costs that are higher than they have to be on one or more commodities. There is little reason to doubt that Union fratemities are wasting· hundreds of dollars yearly by their failure to cooperate in some manner in their purchase of food-stuffs. In spite of the above information, it seem- ed that Union fraternities yet were paying prices that were lowe1· than those paid by Schenectady housewives. After all, one of the fundamental laws of economics is that the larger the quantities of staple commod- ities purchased may be, the lower will be the prices paid for them. Union fraternities are certainly purchasing larger daily quantities than the average housewife. Concordiensis investigators found that this is far from the picture. To the contrary, over the counter prices charged by some of the larger markets serving housewives were lower than those paid by fraternities. This does not mean, of course, that any market may be charging a double price-no attempt to institute such a survey was made. It was nonetheless clear that thrifty housewives could easily underbuy Union fraternities in almost every commodity. The second conclusion that may be drawn from the investigation is that Union fratem- ities are gaining few of the advantag-es to which even the individual purchase quantity of each house should entitle it, as in com- parison with a Schenectady housewife. Union fraternities, in spite of their at- colleges whose status may be of in- terest to Union students. tempts to institute thorough-going econ- omies, are yet needlessly wasting: a g:reat UNIVERSITIES UNDER PUBLIC ~ - OONTROL deal of money by theil' failure to institute • APPROXIMATE INCREASES 25-:f one of the most needful of all thorough-going • Connecticut economies-some form of commodity buying, APPROXIMATELY SAME ENROLLMENT cooperation on the Union campus. MIDDLEBURY HAD A SUCCESSFUL SOLUTION FOR THE PROBLEM It is interesting to consider the results of the attempts of another small college campus to solve the problems posed by lack of fra- temity cooperation. The .Middlebury Campus, as early as 1939, wrote of such a venture: The cooperative among the fraternities for the purpose of saving on the costs of food supplies is being continued again this year as a successful buying organization. Realizing two years ago that g~·oup coopera ation instead of individual buying would cut down on excessive grocery expenses, the stewards of the fraternities formed a buying so-ciety, pooUng certain resources and thus beginning a system which has saved the members from ten to twelve percent of their fo,rmer grocery bills. This year, the buying club has o1·dered and had delivered large amounts of the year's supplies to the seven houses that are mem- bers. These original orders for groceries, po- tatoes, bread, paper and coal were placed last June. The manager obtained wholesale deal- ers' bids on this order and by September 1 had given the bid to the company which had quoted the most reasonable prices on the Grade A quality products which the frater- nities demand. Because of the size of the order, the delivery charges are much less than with a small quantity. The business manager is the dominant executive position in ·this buying club. He. carries the main work of organizing, order- ing, booking, and paying the bills-making it the position of maaager, secretary, and treasurer. For this work he receives a sal- ary, the only one in the organization. New Hampshire College of City of New York University of Delaware University of Maine UNIVERSITIES UNDER PRIV- ATE OONTROL APPROXIMATE INCREASE 10'1} George Washington APPROXIMATELY SAME ENROLLMENT Brown Fordham Cornell Princeton Dartmouth Rice Inst. APPROXIMATE DECREASES 5'1} Boston U. Duke APPROXIMATE DECREASE 10'1} Columbia New York U. Harvard U. of Buffalo INDEPENDENT COLLEGES, ARTS, SCIENCES APPROXIMATEINCREASES20~ Bard APPROXIMATE INCREASES 5'1} Amherst Columbia C. Hamilton Northeastern U. Pembroke Queen's C. Trinity C. ! Wash. D. C.) William and Mary Williams APPROXIMATELY SAME ENROLLMENT Bennington Bryn Mawr Colby Connecticut C. for Women Holy Ctoss Hunter Middlebury Sarah Lawrence Sltldmore Smith Sweet Briar Union C. Vassar APPROXIMATE DECREASES 5'1} Bowdoin Lake Forest Colgate Texas Christian C. of St. Rose Wesleyan U. APPROXIMATE DECREASES 10'1} Hobart APPROXIMATE DECREASES 25% Trinity U. TECHNOLOGICAL ' INSTITUTIONS APPROXIMATELY SAME ENROLLMENT Rensselaer Poly The plot can be dismissed with a few weB cho!Oen phrases. You've seen most of it all before. The bt·ash young pilot who ferries planes across the Atlantic for one thousand dollars a trip; who dis- covers when he meets Betty Gra- ble in London that money isn't everything and that she is; who un- dergoes a slight reformation and joins the R. A. F.; who makes love to able Grable; who fhes; who now has John Sutton as a rival for B. G.; who bombs Berlin; who maltes love; who aids in the J'e- treat at Dunket que; who- well, I guess that's about all. The hero of this yai·ri is not Ty- rone. Nor do you believe at any time that it is Tyrone. It is thl Spitfires, and you know it from the :first time you see a formation of :them on the screen. There is some ,excellent aerial photography in this 'one, but that isn't saying it's bet- ter than \Hell's Angels,\ which it isn't. Because we think that \Hell's Angels\ had the best aerial scenes ever. The characters are mostly stick characters. The cocky Amer- ican skirt chaser; the noble Eng- lish commander who loves his girl and makes the noble sacrifice no- bly; the comic English aviator who you know is sure to get killed; the German soldier who unknown to the English flyers speaks perfect English. It's all in the cards. Now we think it'S' about time to say something about \Stems'' Gra- ble. We like her. We like the way she sings, dances, pouts, tries to act. And anything she does is okey with us. Now we understand each other. So there it is. The most sure fire hunk o' hokum to come out of Hollywood in some time. You'd bet- ter see it. Everyone else will. S. G. ---a--- Alumni Monthly Mr. Richard Weeks, professor of English and editor of the \Alumni Monthly,\ has announced that this publication will a-ppear sometime this week. John R. Tunis, well-known free- lance sportswriter and magazine contributor, will be on the campus tomorrow and Thursday to speak in Daily Assembly and to sit in on informal \bull sessions\ with vari- ous student groups, Professor Bur- ges Johnson, head of the depart- ment of English, announced yes- terday. Mr. Tunis will arrive on the campus about noon tomorrow. He will have lunch with several fac- ulty men and is available tomor- row afternoon for any interested student groups. In the evening, he and Dr. Johnson will take part in an informal conference with the members of the staff of The Con- cordiensis. Thursday morning he will speak in Daily Assembly and attend va- rious classes. Dr. Johnson, who will be Mr. Tunis' tost while he is on the cam- pus, said yesterday that his guest's most recent book was entitled \This Wt iting Game,\ a selection of writings from 20 years of free- lancing. This book includes an in- troduction by Frederick Allen, edi- tor of Harper's Magazine. Among the other popular non- fiction works of Mr. Tunis are \Sports Heroics or Hysteria?\ \American Girl\ \Was College Worthwhile?\ \Choosing a Col- lege\ \Sport for the Fun of It\ and \World Series.\ His fiction works include \Iron Duke\ \The Duke Decides', \Kid from Tarkins- ville\ and \Champion's Choice.\ In his magaz:ne articles, Mr. Tunis has presented the results of a number of investigations into subsidization of college athletes and various experiments in pro- grams of free-admission athletic contests. Mr. Tunis made plans to visit the campus last year but was unable to fulfill them. ---0--- Spanish Classes Dr. Charles Stubing, instructor of Spanish and German invites stu- dents and faculty members wishing . to improve their pronunciation or knowledge of Spanish to attend the optional classes now being given at 1:30 evet·y Tuesday after:10on in Silliman hall. Dr. Stubing has been assisted in this program by Felici- ano Gonzalez, '42, of Puerto Rico, and by graded Spanish records. F! y p, .. , P: N A fk: teE a: ele to an, in~ sin of do· 50- ar< the Sh be1 pia , teE teE op, thE ya: ill! Cl'~ on m~ tot me lik diJ thl pr' VE po do ch Ur: 14 l co be ce-j hi! to do th, en ly tu re: fi€ th ric fk co to sp nil mo I

de- to ion of in ast 25 ch· o:l- ain ich ent to hat is due by ree- on yes- the He fac- sted , he in the va- Mr. in- edi- are Col- It\ Mr . s of into pro- letic the of stu- or the in been elici- 3 SPORTS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941 OJ~t {llttU!OflttPU!it.Jl Garnet Gridders Upset Vermont With Stirring Rally Victory B·rea~ks ·E i·ght Game 'Losing Strea~k Union- V t\rmont Rta;tistics u v Fit'St downs . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 9 Yards gained rushing (net) 133 139 Passes attempted . . . . . . . 14 15 Passes completed . . . . . . . . 6 2 Passes intercepted by. . . . 2 1 Number of punts . . . . . . . 7 5 AveragE\ distancE\ ptmts .. 37 44 Realizing aH at once late in the fi·rst half that they were the better team, Union's Dutchmen tarned on a surprised University of Vermont eleven in the second half and raced to a 7-6 victory over the big green and gold-clad Catamounts at Burl- ington. It was Union's first win since October, 1940. Sherry Hillick turned the trick of scoring the first Union tcmch- down of the year as he capped a 50-yard drive with an 11-yard run around right end to score early in Play Leading Roles Sherry Hillicll: and Gordie Sem- erad, sPniors whose fine play SatlH'day did much to snap the Garnet losing streak. the third period. Then Big Lee it back to midfield. Here the vic- Sherman sent the winning point tory drive began. Hillick went over between the uprights on a clean left guard for three yards and then placement, Ed Enstice holding. made it a first down with a 14- Vermont started off as if it would yard blast at right tackle. \Red\ tear the insides out of the Union Ki'llian caught the Vermonters naop- team. Johnny Spasyk carried the ping on the next ·play as he danced opening kickoff back 32 yards and off left tackle for 23 yards on a the Cats kept on gaining, going 95 naked reverse play. He was finally yards to score without relinquish ·downed on the Vermont 11. ing the ball. Tony Lewkowicz Hillick scored on the next ·play crashed over for the scot·e from the as Quarterback Sherman surprised one-yard line. Spasyk, who played a the Cat defense again by sending magnificent game for the Burling· \Blackie\ off the right end. Sher- ton eleven, was wide with his place- man and Enstice threw the decid- ment attempt, but it didn't seem ing blocks fot· theit· mate and likely that this would make any Sherry dove over the line with a difference. Vermont tackler riding along with Vermont Marches him. Sherman's conversion was to The margir, looked big and prove the winning margin, but the threatened to grow to even greater best portion of the game was just proportions before the half was out. beginning. vermont was mad. It Vermont found Union's line no op- was also off balance and Union position at all and marched up and took good advantage of this. down the field pretty much as it Accurate punts by Hillick and chose, rolling up 110 yards, while Cliff Platt kept the Cats bottled Union was being held to a measly up in their own territory and the 14 in the first two periods. Union line proved a stone wall. Lee Sherman finally changed the complexion of things five minutes Semerad Stars before the half ended. He inter- Here Gordie Semerad was the cepted one of Spasyk's passes on sparkplug. He joined on as the his own 24-yard line and raced back fifth man in Vermont's backfield, to Vermont's 15 before bt>ing making three fourths of the tack- downed. That Union fumbled on les and playing a game which in- the next play made little differ- spired the rest of the line to new ence. Vermont's spirit was strange- achievements. His play was defi- ly broken by this heartbreaking nitely the most inspiring individ- turn of events. Union was cor- ual performance of any Union man respondingly transformed into a in the past two years. fighting, clicking ball club. After The game ended with Union threatening all the rest of the pe- again in a threatening position. A riod, the Dutchmen trotted off the 15-yard gallop off left tackle by field for the intermission with a Walt Galuszka had placed the ball confident feeling. They were going on Vermont's 21 with four downs to win this ball game. to make it. Union was still on the Fullback Ed Enstice ignited the 21 with one play left as the game spark which set off the game-win- ended. ning score. He intercepted a Ver- * * mont pass on his own 30 and ran Semerad's amazing performance is even more outstanding when it is considered that this was his first game as a tackle. He was con- Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market ~ . OUR MOTTO \Quality- Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values verted from end early last week to plug the sieve-like gap through which most of the opposition gains have been made, and proved just the right remedy. He spent most of the first half studying his Iuterested in Schenectady Interested in UNION MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street ]I!'We!er 166 JAY STREET JVatch and Jeweb·y Repairing a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS plays from the bench, but proved the difference between victory and defeat when the time came. * • * It was raining when Sherman booted the game-winning place- ment. Ed Eustice would ordinarily have tried the kick with Sherman holding but the ball was slippery and Sherman declared afterwards that he was so afraid he would drop the ball that he had \Shorty\ told it while he did the booting. * * * Psi Upsilon has added a kitten to its menagerie as the result of the Burlington excursion of John- ny Baas. He took time off from doing a fine job of cheer-leading to acquire a little kitten, with which he became quite chummy during the game. .. * * Bill Hill's fire-ravaged car al- most didn't malre it to the game for its new owner, Johnny Grow. Defective wiring halted Grow and his fellow Betas, Bob Smolka and Earl Goodrich, just south of White- hall and they were a bit late for the game, missing the first half. * * * Besides switching Semerad to tackle, Coach Art Lawrence con- verted Ken Sharpe from quarter- back to center after breakfast Sat- urday morning. Ken proved equal to the occasion, thus enabling Law- rence to withhoid Captain Bob Baker from the game. Art didn't want to chance aggravating \Bake's\ old injury. * * * S.o Union snaps an eight game losing streak just a year after it began. Vermont was the team which ended a Union streak of 14 games without defeat by winning, 19-7, here last fall and Union hadn't hit the victory column since. Panthers Defeat Garnet Runners fo,r First Time Once a·•ain Union's cross-coun- try team, ~vhich loeks like a million in practice, feB apart completely under fire in a meet. So complete- ly did the Garnet harriers go to pieces Saturday that Middlebury's runners scu1 ed their first triumph in history over the Dutchmen, winning 16-3il, at Midd·lebury. Union's first runner to finish was Charley Snell, who came in in fifth place, 25 seconds behind the quartet of Middlebury sophomores who were bunched in the first four places. Behind Snell came his way- ward teammates, Dick Conly, who finished seventh; Jules Vigliemo, eight'h; Herb Adams, ninth, Bob Ileed, lOth, and Bob Shepherd, 12th. Paul Da\~s was the wmner. He negotiated the four-mile course in 25:36. Snell, Union's first man, did 26:01. This wasn't a heartening perfor- mance by the Union team, which has now lost two meets and stacks up against R. P. I. in its annual run here Saturday. ---o-~~- Beta Theta Pi Hands D. U. Its First Loss There was joy aplenty in the Beta house last night, for D. U., mighty D. U., was shut out. The Goodrichmen, upset by the up-and- down Neutral combination last week and counted all but out of the league race, rose up to topple hith- erto unbeaten Delta Upsilon, 14-0. Bob Smolka was the Beta star. He scored both touchdowns, ac- cording to unreliable D. U. sources, and had a hand in scoring both extra points. However, an unidenti- fied character who is believed to have played end, may have scored one touchdown. Other games yesterday saw Kap- pa Sigma blank North College, 19-0, and Alpha Delta Phi wallop Phi Sigma Delta, 99-6. Last Friday was marked by close contests all around. Kappa Nu nosed out Theta Delta Chi's matchless marvels, 1-0, piling up a yardage advantage. Delta Chi upset the highly-touted Psi Upsilon Psiclone, 1-0, by the same margin. Phi Gamma Delta blanked Phi Delta Theta, 9-0, and Phi Sigma Delta and Sigma Chi battled to a deadlock which will be decided in a playoff tilt. By virtue of its victory yester- day, Beta Theta Pi tied D. U. for first place in League A. The two will probably meet Friday in a playeff. Unbeaten Phi Gamma Delta and Chi Psi finished one-two in League B, but League C c.ame up with a three-way tie between Kappa Sig- ma, Theta Delta Chi and Kappa (Continued on Page 4) r----------------------------------------~------~ I I I ICE CREAM l I One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, I I I any flavor. Square package. easy to slice. $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6-1248 I Bellevue Dairy I L ______________________________________________ J Gazette Press Printing :!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllll I 111111 i lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 11.: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - § Schenectady EnCJraving Co. § - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ Engravers for The Concordiensis ~ - - - - _ 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 _ - - - - - - m lnmummnnlmlllmn•munnlmnm•m•ulm•un• mu11111nuu•Im•mnm1~ Everett Schoonmaker Takes Close Victory In Concordy Contest Pmgnostica tors suffered their worst weelr\end yet in the football contest. None picked more than 11 of 14 games correctly. Four men were able to pull this trick, how- ever, thus complicating things no end. Everett Schoonmaker of Williams street, Schenectady, was declared the winner on the basis of having picked the scores more correctly. This week's contest games follow; the entry deadline is 10 o'clock Saturday morning: Alabama . . . . . . Georgia ...... . Army .. .. .. .. . Columbia .... :. Bowdoin . . . . . . Colby ........ . Cornell . . . . . . . . Colgate ....... . Brown . . . . . . . . Lafayette .... . Hamilton . . . . . . Rochester •.... Dartmouth . . . . Y rue .......... . Fordham . . . . . . '1'. C. U, ...... . Minnesota .... . Michigan ..... . N'western .... . Ohio State Oregon ....... . U. C. L. A, ... . Princeton .... . Vanderbilt ... . Rice ......... . Texas ........• Washington .. . Stanford ....•. llarvard ..... . Navy ......... . Name .......................... . Address ---0--- FOOTBALL FIELD ~ET The 17th annual intramural foot- ball field meet will be run off to- morrow and Thursday at 12:45 o'clock on Graduate Council field. There will be a full program of events each day. Six men must .compete for 30 en- trance points. Forty-five additional points will also be awarded accord- ing to results. The events will in- Clude: kicking field goals, throw for distance, punting for distance, place-kick for distance and punting for accuracy. Winners of football \U\ or \aUa\ awards and members of the pres- ent varsity and freshman grid teams are ineligible to compete. An entrant can compete in as many events as he desires. Entries will be accepted on Council field. Cub Harriers Tackl·e Delhi Boasting the only undefeated rec- ord of Unio,.,.'s fall-sports teams, the freshmc cros:o-country outfit will hold a waz•m-up for Satur- day's meeting with the R. P. I. frosh by running Delhi State School here tomorrow afternoon. At least the Ketzmen hope it will be only a warm-up. The race will start at 4:30 o'clock and will be over the three-mile course. The Union yearlings are confi- dent of victory. The outstanding quintet of cub runners upon whom much will depend these next few days includes Jim Quinlan, George Middlemiss, Bob Beale, Ken White and Chuck Gade. Another who'll proba:bly be up there, judging from results of the first victory over Canton is Bill Eger. ---01--- WITTNER-CIAMPA LEAD Dopesters AI Ciampa and Hal Wittner rema·ined entrenched at the head of the parade in the athletic department football contest over the week-end. Both picked 11 of 14 games correctly. Close on the tails of the leaders puffed Bill Ketz, who missed out on the results of six games. Among his mistakes was the game in which he picked Northwestern to beat Michigan, his alma mater. Wittner, who explained that his selections were for a fast track, re- mains tied for first place with Ci- ampa. They have picked 37 winners in 48 games on the cumulative poll. Art Lawrence, who backed five los- ers Saturday, is third with 35 win- ners and Ketz trails with 34. Park Laundry Get your clothes in shape now for the Gridiron Ball. I 05 Clinton 4-9011 Have fun-be friendly Treat yourself and others to fresh-tasting Wrigley's Spearmint Gum ;I j The Flavor Lasts i j r. i ,, ... I. \ ... ·\ ):~rJ \ .': ;'1 ; .•: : ':/ .·,:~·-··:~:·-----~-~-~-~~~~-~:.\~-- •_::· ·~~w~:_)r

l~t Cftnutnrbi-tttsts TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941 FEATURE 4 Hamilton Tickets Priced 50 Cents Offered Fo:r Sale . Scenes from Production of 'Rigoletto' Coming Here Thursday Non--fraternity Men Given \\ Opportunity to Purct11cse Yicl<ets Daily This Week I' Spr<'i~llY\Pl'I<'Prl tiekPt·~ few the Hamilton game on November 15\ wc•nt on sale this mor.1ing bl'fore :tilt! alter Daily Assembly. The sal~ : wi.l continue every day this wee·k until Friday. 'lle tickets are be in~ sJld ·by mc•::.be::; of till• THt\>ll~ Cuundl 1 ant.i 1 iai :-a·t l\:t·~ :o-th tt•, tt·s 111 .:n t'4 ;.uJ t tu t t•ach llt'Uti·Ul curnnlUlt>l':-' who cannot be contacted through donmtuttes ot fnttel nit) huu~cs. ·,·l.~y ar<· priced at !10 cpnts and must .b~ ,;old wu a sUtetly cash ba:;is. members uf the two societies u.nnuuncnl last mght. :-.:u lt·S<'l va- I lions can bL• nunl£'. Although the sale is being con\ duLted SlJCl'lllcul:ly tur ueutl'.d com- muters, fraterrtity and dormitory tlll'll \vhu have tailed to takl' ad- vantagE> of thP offer o: tickets in their houses mdy also get ticket:; at this time. Terrace Council men wiU also canva~s the dormit0ries during the week. As the sale of tickets in the fra- ternities came to an end last week, 323 men had purcha::.ed tickets, with three groups still to be heard from. When the sale passed the 200 mark early last week, Dean Charles F. Garis announced that all class- es would be excused that day. -~-· 't Left to right: Nino Carboni as Sparafucile, Dolores Cassinelli as Madalena, Arthur Tree as Duke of Wantua, Agat:a ·Borzi as Gilda and Reed Lawton as Rigoletto. ...1 Henry Steigner as Monterone his t•xp£'rieneP in concert and ora- torio has been extensive. Leading basso roles a1·e sullg by Nino Carboni, who was discovered by the famous baritone, T!to Ruffo. Making his debut at the age of 19 at the Royal Opera House, Rome, Distribute Tickets This Week Reed Lawton (Rigoletto) with Arthw· Tree, (Duke of Wantua). cities including New~ and San Cal'lo of Naples; has ap- where he attained great success, he . York. Miss Dolores Cassinelli, so-~ peared at the Paris Opera Comique was engag.ed the following yea: by prano, is especiaUy well-lmown to I and as a soloist at the Sacre Coeur · the La Scala Opera !'louse, Milan, American radio listeners, having Cathedral in the French Capital. and late~: appeared m ope;a and appeared on the opera hour, Nea- He has he'd star billings on sev-~ concerts m most of the capitals of politan Nights, for two years, the era! European radio programs, and Europe. The tickets purchased by fr·ater- nity men will be distributed this week. At the same time, anange- ments will be made for those who wish to use the ·buses which have been secured for the occasion. Round-trip fare for t·he 180-mile trip will be $1.50. The buses will be chartered from the Welcome Line. Fraternity salesmen for the tick- ets, with the number purchased by each house, are as follows: Alpha Delta Phi, Eric T. King, '42, 25; Alpha Phi Delta. Michael A. Stan- co, '43; Beta Theta Pi, Joseph F. Furlong, '42, 20; Chi Psi, Robert K. Baker, '42, 23; Delta Chi, Rob- ert P. Hallenbeck, '42; Delta Phi, Robert W. Nothacker, '42, 30; Del- ta Upsilon, Alfred A. Knopf, '42, 26; Kappa Alpha, Avery J. Beer, '42, 15; Kappa Nu, Robert Panoff, '42, 34; Kappa Sigma, Warren E. Perkins, '42, 14; Phi Delta Theta, Edward J. Beargeon, '44, 28; Phi Gamma Del- ta, Frank W. England, '43, 22; Phi Sigma Delta, Lee Sherman, '42; Phi Sigma Kappa, Richard F. Hoff- man, '43, 15; Psi Upsilon, Edward C. Enstice, '42, 24; Sigma Cru, Wil- liam R. Coates. '42, 15; Sigma Phi, Jonathan Pearson, '42, 20; Theta Delta Chi, Robert L. Carnrlght. 43, 12. Delta Chi, Phi Sigma Delta and AJpha Phi Delta have not yet re- ported on sales in those houses. ----0--- Urge to G.-ea+ness Common Trait, Smyth Says in Chapel \May God pity anyone who, hav- ing a chance to serve, lacks a pro- pelling urge to greatness,\ said the Reverend George Hugh Smyth, of Hitchcock Memorial Church in Scarsdale, in his sermon in Memo- rial Chapel Sunday. \But if one be great, he must Herve,\ he warned. Describing a~ one of the world's greatest spectacles the scene de- picted in Luke in which the disci- ples quarreled over which of them Was to be the greatest, the speaker went on to describe how the desire for greatness has been a common trait throughout history. \A sad figure indeed is the man who does not know what he'd like to be,\ Mr. Smyth said. Quoting John Ruskin's three famous ques- tions, \Where am I from.?,\ \Whither am I going?\ and \What shall I do on the way?,\ he said that a refusal to answer these ques- tions leaves a man without a prop- er plan of life. ·------- ----- - --· -~ CALENDAR Tomorrow 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Speaker, John M. Swann, M.D., Secretary, New York State So- ciety for Control of Cancer, Memorial Chapel. 3:30-5:30 p. m.-Glee Club Re- hearsal, Hanna Hail. 4 :30 p. m.-Freshman Cross Country. Union vs. Delhi, at Schenectady. 5:00-6:00 p. m.-Public Speaking Class, Choral Practice, Breath- ing and Articulation. Conduct- ed by Professor George D. Kel- logg. Thursday 10:00 a. m.-Daily Assembly, Speaker. John R. Tunis. Sports Writer and Journalist, Memo- rial Chapel. 5:30 p. m. -Matinee performance of \Rigoletto\ at Mt. Pleas- ant High School. 8:30 p. m. -Evening pe~ forma nee of \Rigoletto.\ Friday 10:00 a. m. --Dally Assembly. Or- gan Recital, Dr. Elmer A. Tid\ marsh, Memorial Chapel. S:OO p. m.-Graduate Council Ex- ecutive Committee Dinner, Hale House. 6:30 p. m. -Annual Schenectady County Alumni Association Dinner. Mohawk Golf Club. IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Our Service is Ideal -Just Try One Haircut PHONE 4-5614 Eve.-ything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady Anything you need? Call GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 For \Better Milk 11 Try Us Our Supply Cum.es from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroeelt St., Sootia, N. Y. Phone 6-7758 'Rigoletto' <Continued from Page 1) and music, while only the Jess in- teresting matter has been deleted. Featured in the performance Thursday will be several artists whose popularity with American music lovers has been tested and proved on the concert stage, on the radio networks and in operatic performances both in this country and abroad. Reed Lawton, lyric baritone, director of the American Opera company. acclaimed for the . quality, range and power of his ' voice. will be heard in the title role. Among the other leading mem- bet·s of the cast is Miss Agata Borzi, coloratura soprano, highly approved by critics in Bud a nest. Prague, and Berlin, and in large INTRAMURAL$ <Continued from Page 3l Nu. Commissioner Ketz contem- plates staging either a round-robin or an elimination playoff. Postponed games slated tomor- row will pit Phi Sigma Kappa against Alpha Phi Delta and Sig- ma Chi vs. Phi Sigma Delta, both on Library field. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD- ROLLS -PASTRY Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil VAUGHN MONROE cl P er in the at dinner on suP brighter, gayer CenturY Room • \ h Hot'' orchestra and with hrs smas ' BIGGEST NEW yoRK 5 \LITTLE 11 sHOW h D ncing Chorus featuring 1 e a cl obles 1 of Eight Comma or TEA DANCE Saturdays,5 to 6 P.~· I rtable oufs,de 2000 Jorge, como. I both Cll II with provo e ' rooms, a STUDENTS' RATES SPECIAL [omniDaaRE Martin Sweeny, President Spanish Hour, the Victor Hour, Major Bowes Family Hour, and the R. K. 0. Hour, among others. She has also appeared in Carnegie Hall and Town Hall, in New York City, and has made recordings and Span- ish motion picture \shorts.'' CLEANERS AND TAILORS UNITED SHOE REBUILDERS Arthur Tree. American tenor, has 114 State St. (Have Your Rep1•esentativc Call U&) Phone 4-5676 filled leading roles at Mon:~t=e . ...:::C~a::_r:lo:..!~~~===========:=::=:=:=:=:==:==~==~=====~ PATRICIA COMPTON of Dallas, Texas 0 A;s lfar on the campus_ este They're cheering Chesterfields because they're MILDER COOLER and BETTER-TASTING You'd enjoy reading \Tobaccoland U.S. A.,'' or hearing a lecture on Chesterfield's can't-be-copied blend of the world's best cigarette tobaccos . but the best way to learn about Chesterfields is to try 'em. You'll find more cigarette pleasure than you ever had before. ·Copyright 1941, Ltt::GETT & M YEns T QBAcco Co. You'll join the millions who say WITH ME IT'S CHESTERFIELD ••• ·~ E F al st a.J Ill ni el H cc nl lo io Jl er m K aJ v. cl VI VI n: ti e n VI t: F 8 fl tl Cl ri b: F Sl B VI tl S> G a c tl a s1 h Sl d d p co IE fl h e d '[ ]\! 1' '[ s I n ti is a c

·, by 19 me, , he lan, of Sport Alumni •• • News tS Page 5 Section Pages 6, 7, .a The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV. 'Number 13 Editorial 4·0133 Press 4··1141 SCHEN'ECTADY, N.Y., FRiiDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 Price 5e N,eutral Town.Menl Speak on ·Industry and Government Elected To Head Pyr a:rnid Council Tepper, Haake Chosen: Danee Plans ·Completed for I Sa.turrday Evening Affair I SPhPnertat'.y non-t:ra·ternity men 1 at Union College turned o11t 75 I sh ong in Silliman Hall yesterday : afternoon to pledge support to the I new Pyramid Council, non-frater- nity executive org-a·nization, and I el'ect Jas.on Tepper and Bernat·d Haake their representatives to the council. Meantime, commuters elected William Moore of Amsterdam their representative at a meeting Thurs- day night. Separating into classes, the Sche- nectady neutrals elected t·he .fol- lowing class committeemen: Sen- iors-William Dailey and Benjamin Jakobowski; junlot·s, Harold Bod- ensta;b and Theodore Male; sopho- mores, Clifford Tepper and Karl Klarman; freshmen, Alan Taylor and Jack Hallahan. The only other group to have a complete slate of class committee- men elected was North College with Solomon Blechma;n represent- ing seniors, Alexander Maxwell, juniors, Paul Yergin, sophomores, and Jerry Weinstein, freshmen. These four, with Robert Bish.op, Pyramid Council representative .for North College, also make up the North College dormitory executive committee. Class Meeting Monday Meetings of all class committees will be called for Monday when chairmen of the various classes will be elected. These chairmen will become members o.f the Pyra- mid Council. All group representa- tives to class committees must be elected in time for the Monday meetings or lose their chance to vote for the chairman. Plans ha.ve been completed .for the All-Neutral dance in Hanna Hall tomorrow evening beginning at 8 p. m. Dues to the neutral social .fund must be paid before attending the dance and dues certification cards must be shown at the deer. Recorded dance music will be va- ried by jam session& of a three piece band being assembled by Robert Hines, '45, according to Carl Con- soglio, chairman of tJhe dance. Bridge tables and several games will also be set up to vary enter- tainment, he said, Oliver Steigerwalt, '43, has been appointed to arrange the neutral beer party next Saturday, Novem- ber 1. Plans are also under way .for securing a neutral booth at the Gridiron Ball and &ponsoring a tea after the Rochester game. Among those pictured above at the speakers' table of the dinner session of the annual .Conference on Industry and <rovernment are President Fox, Thomas Watson, p1•esident of International Business Machines Corporation, and Professor Mortimer Sayre, chairman of the confevence. ~~~-------------------------------- Watson Conference Talk Stresses Speedy Pea·ce Hopes, Free Trade Optimism both as to the outcome of the war and the condition of business after the war was express- ed by Thomas C. Watson, president of the International Business Ma- chines Corporation and head of an international committee for eco- nomic reconstruction after the war. In his speech before the fourth an- nual conference on industry and government which was held on the campus Tuesday, he advocated the lowering of international trade bar- riers after the war. Mr. Watson stated, \If we don't make some reapportionment eco- nomically so that every country wiil have equal access to funda- mental raw materials after the war, then we might as well begin preparing for another war. He also went on record as approving so- cial legislation as a bulwark against the possibility of a second depression after this war. Assembly Speaker Oswald D. Heck and Irving M .Ives, chairman of t.he Joint Legislative Committee on Industrial and Labor relations, both emphasized the necessity of immediate planning by leaders of industry, labor and agriculture in coop'eration with the government so that post-war conditions would not in great measure ruin the nation's economy. Speaker Heck included among the probable post-war effects an end fo defense production, a period of un-American economics, in- .flation, further restrictions upon the American economic system, a problem of rehabilitating large numbers demobilized from the na- tion's armed forces, and a new re- lief burden upon cities. Whole hearted cooperation of industry with government, avoidance by gov- ernment of unnecessary taxation and legislation to curb credit buy- ing were advocated as remedies which would relieve the post-war effects. Upon Mr. Ives suggestion, the conferees instructed Mortimer F. Sayre to appoint a committee with authority to arrange another meet- ing at Union College in the near future. Some of the faculty members who attended the conference commented as follows: Professor Benjamin Whitaker: \The conference was useful in di- recting the thought of business people to the problems of post war adjustment. I felt that the repre- sentatives were exceedingly aware of the existence of the problem, and were giving much thought to ways of overcoming it. There was more enthusiastic participation and widespread discussion than at any such conference since I've been at Union.\ Professor Harold Sylvester: \They made an approach to the problem, but there certainly is much to be done.\ Small Past Campus Chest Payments Contrasted With Other Colleges~ Rejuvenated I. R.C. Plans Comprehensive Program Letters receivild from several • ------ colleges in New York State and New England indicate that Union's average contribution to the Cam- pus Chest is far below that of the average charity contribution of oth- er American students. Last year, Union's 775 men con- tributed $444.25 to five charities, or an average of about 54 cents per student. No other college contacted has averaged less than $3.50 per student. Only 63 per cent of Union stu- dents contributed to the drive. Stu- dents contributing stood above 90 per cent in every other college. James F. McNulty, who has been contacting neighboring colleges, re- leased the following letter today .fr.orn: the chairman o.f the Am- herst chest drive. McNulty point- ed out that Amherst has 830 stu- dents enrolled, only 50 more than Union. The letter .follows: Psi Upsilon Amherst, Mass., October 10, 1941 Mr. James F. McNulty, 17 Old Gym Hall, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Dear Mr. McNulty: I shall not be able to go into much detail about our drive since. time is quite limited and the Drive is coming off in a week. Our Chest Committee two years ago was disassociated from the Christian Association and set up as an independent organization. Its leader is picked by the outgoing chairman and the committee by the contemporary chait·man. It ie roughly divided into: Publicity, Newspaper and Ca1Xlpus, Finance, Soliciting and Collection. Last year we pledged $4,500 and collected $3,700. Last year the col- lection was rather haphazard but certainly voluntary. This year it will be more organized but again voluntary We do not go on the Red Cross or American Legion plan of de- facing our contributors. 95 per cent contributed and the average gift was $5.17. 30 per cent to British American Ambulance Corps, 20 per cent to World Student Service Fund, 20 per cent to Amherst in Holyoke, 13 per cent to Amherst Boy's Club, 10 per cent to Pelham Rural Fellow- ship, 5 per cent to Student •Jhris- tian Movement, 29 per cent ex- penses. This year we are giving 30 per cent of $5,000 to WSSF and we are trying to feature it, believing it to be the most needy and worthy of all .foreign relief. Hope that your drive is a great success. Allow plenty of time to prepare. Yours very sincerely, Miner D. Carey, Jr. Chairman, Amherst Chest Drive. International Relations Club plans for the ye<J.r were outlined on Wednesday afternoon at an organ- izational meeting by Delphis Gold- berg, '42, president o~ the club. Dr. Troyer Anderson, professor of History at Swarthmore College, will speak at the first joint meet- ing with area IRC clubs on No- vember 12 which will be held at Dr. Langsam's residence. Dr. An- derson is an authority on military strategy and history. His subject will be the military strategy of the pre&ent war. A delegation of IRC members will attend the Middle Atlantic States IRC convention on Novem- ber 28 and 29 which will be held at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania . Meetings will be held weekly at 1:15 p. m. in the History office on the second floor of Bailey Hall, it was decided. · Next Monday Dr. Langsam will lead a discussion on Japan and the New Gorder in the Far East. Other members of the faculty will address the organiza- tion and lead discussion on inter- national problems from time to time. Local speakers, including South Americans who are associat- ed with the General Electric Com- pany, will speak at the meetings. In addition, negotiations are al- ready under way to bring several prominent men in international re- la:tions to the campus during the year. Homecoming Weekend To Be Featured By 40th Gridiron Meeting With R. P.l. · - ·· · ------- · - - - ·~ Pep Rally Scheduled Waring Will Play Union Songs I For 7:30 at Gy~; Replying to the petition::; of the student Lody collected by Trustees, Council Meet The Co:ncordiensis and to letters by Pt·esident Fox and .w. Teas, Dances Planned James Stillman, '42, F:red Waring telegraphed the followmg answer. \We expect to perform at least one Union Coilege song on November Seventh in cooperation with your celebration. Cordially-Fred Waring.\ A high spot of the fall sport& season will •be 1 eached tomonow afternoon when, for the fortieth timP footba·ll elPvt•ns representin~ Ren~~:elaer Polytechnic Institute green grass of Alexander Field. For more than half a century these two teams have been battling it out, and for that half century, their Wednesday The Concordiensis mailed the advertising agency which handles Waring's program 50 sheets of Union answer: Guards Assigned To Repel R. P. I. Freshmen Responsible For Campus Defense: Goal Posts Removed Bulletin Students from R. P. I. invaded the campus e.arly this morning and painted several large red \R. P. I's.\ on the press box. President Fox said that their ac- tion \was aU right\ as no damage was done. With the memory of the smear- ing of Payne Gate two years ago to stir their efforts, the Freshman Orientation Committee under Ned Reilly has been guarding the cam- pus in the early hours of the morn- ing and will also guard it tonight from 1 to 4 a.m. Thus far un- j) r e c e d e n ted determination has been shown to prevent the van- dalism which has included in the past painting R. P. I. initials on the Alexander Field press box and roadways. and the stain which has remained for a dceade on the Alumni Gymnasium despite \every device known to science which has been used to remove the distressing and depressing mark.\ The freshman campus defenders assigned for early Saturday morn- ing are as follows: 1-2 a.m.-Kappa Sigma, Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Gam- ma Delta, and the town boys; 2-3 a.m.-Kappa Alpha; Delta Phi, Sig- ma Phi, and Oldgym; 3-4 a.m.- North College, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Phi. Guardsman will take up their vigil along assigned posts with instructions to rouse the college against a possible R.P.I. \invasion.\ Rally Called Off Two years ago the annual pep rally scheduled at Union was call- ed off to prevent giving an excuse to what Dr. Fox termed \emo- tionally unstable\ students to or- ganize comparable retaliation for the R. P. I. painting orgy. The quick drying paint used by the Troy students proved almost im- possible until Superintendent Sam- uel Johnson's paint removal proc- ess was recommended by the Chemistry Department. In Daily Assembly Thursday, Dr. Fox again urged an ·adult attitude and sports- manlike fair play. Indications are that this policy will be .followed by both sides. The Athletic Department has taken down the goal posts as a pre- caution to prevent R.P.I. students from tearing them down first should they invade the campus ·dur- ing the early hours of the morn- ing. Two Injured At ·Interclass Riot Freshman, Sophomores Stage Battle Around Idol Early This Morning mPeting has provided a climax to each school's gridiron campaign. This year is no exception. Twice-beaten R. P. I. comes to Schenectady tomorrow boasting but one win, that the season's opener against Drexel. The Engineers bowed to Hamilton and Coast Guard Academy on succeesive Sat- urdays thereafter. The Dutchmen have likewise won but once, and that last Saturday while dropping three games in a row. Last year at Climaxing an interclass riot, this time, the ·Cherry and White Thomas Flynn, '45, and Ted Grey, was riding the crest of a winning '44, were injured while freshmen streak and fielded the ·best team at and sophorners engaged in a paint the Troy institution in a generation. battle around the Idol early this The year b•· · nre that the spotlight morning. belonged tc' Sam Hammerstrom Dr. G. Marcellus Clowe, who and Company, on their way to treated Flynn after responding to Union's first undefeated season in the ca:ll with an ambulance, said twenty-five years. And so this that he was suffering from a badly year's contest might look pretty sprained ankle and hysterics. poor ·by comparison, and it would, Flynn was first treated in front of except for one thing-R. P. I. is the Idol and then moved to his playing Union. fraternity, Phi Gamma Delta, for Campus spirit, here, at least, is a further check up. Earlier this· running as high as ever. Student year he sprained his ankle playing Body President Robert K. Killian freshman .football. stirred the college yesterday morn- Grey also was treated for a ing by calling upon the Freshman sprained ankle and a slight lacera- class to furnish all-night \patrols\ tion. to guard against any repetition of Apparently the sophomores had Rensselaer vandalism of October, laid plans for an Idol painting and 1939. discipline of certain freshmen aft- Over at Troy, some indication of er a mob of freshmen painted the the feeling there, was the wholesale Idol early this week and forced order of 900 ticliets for tomorrow's sophomores found near the statue battle. The entire east side of the to kiss the paint. A meeting was field will be exclusively Rensselaer. called \spontaneously\ at 11:30 last Tonight at 7:30, Schenectady will night and an effort was made to be treated to the biggest Football reach the .freshmen responsible for Rally of the year. Winding down- the earlier painting. town in inimitable style, the Dutch- Invade Phi Garnms men are expected to bring back Thirty sophomores invaded the reminiscences of the Indian Mas- Phi Gamma Delta house in an ef- sacre of ·Queen Anne's War. Fresh- fort to get the freshmen there out men will not be wearing pajamas of the house. They were put out tonight, but will undoubtedly make after much talk and the Phi Gamm up for this in noise. freshmen, who apparently had been No football week-end is complete asked to stay in by their upper- without returning alumni, and this classmen, sneaked out of the house. one will not be lacking in the Sophomores said that the injury to species. Tomorrow has been de- Flynn was purely a coincidence. creed as Homecoming Day, and a From there the sophomores went (Continued on Page 4) to Old Chapel where they engaged in a minor fight with a few fresh- men who had been aroused by the noise. Unable to drag any freshmen from their fraternities the sopho- mores left to paint the Idol red. While engaged in painting the statue, a hastily recruited band of freshmen fell upon them. Flynn and Grey were hurt in the individ- ual fights around the base of the stone figure. Observers, which included many upperclassmen from nearby fra- ternities as well as college govern- ment officials, said that the fresh- mne and sophomores were fighting among thelllilelves as it was almost impossible to tell the classe apa:rt. When it became evident that Flynn was injured, the fighting stopped, and students attempted to treat him and Dr. C!owe was called. 0·---- Tunis Urges 'Faith' In American Ideal Charging the student body to \have faith,\ John R. Tunis asked that we \rededicate ourselves to the word aond principles of Democ- racy,\ in a stirring address deliv- ered in daily assembly yesterday. \I don't intend to tell you about sports. It's 1941, not 1939 or i937,\ he began. \I'll talk ·On the subject o.f Faith; Faith and nothing else. For the first time the country is perplexed, bewildered, :profoundly disturbed.\ Tunis, in asking the student body to rededicate itself to Democracy, stated that \it is not enough to talk about Democracy. That won't do! The people in Europe are find- ing that out today.\ Hoadley On Cost Investigation Contrasting life in Europe and the United States, Tunis said !lhat he had lived in Europe under two d·ictatorships. \America is a swell country, and the American people are a swell people. You will be bet- ter soldiers and citizens than we were. It is always valuable to re- capture that faith in our princi- ples of Democracy,\ he continued. Editor The Concordiensis Dear .Sir: I have been .following with con- siderable interest the series of ar·- ticles you have been running on fraternity operating costs. The in- formation you have published has undoubtedly been of benefit to some of the fraternities in show- ing them where prices they have been paying have been out of line. It seems to me that the various houses would be benefited if their stewards could meet periodically to discuss current prices and course of supply. Meetings of the sort suggested would be purely for the purpose of exchanging information which should work to the mutual advant- age o.f the fraternities participat- Ing. It seems to me that this would be one of the first steps in devel- oping more complete cooperation between the .fraternities. Possibly the Interfraternity Council could consider such a plan as one of its activities for the year. Sincerely yours, Anthony Hoadley, Comptroller. He brought his address to a close with \a simple statement of the Democratic creed\ written by Wil- liam Benet, the poet, which reaf- firmed the principles of the Bill of Rig'hts, the Constitution, and the underlying philosophy of Democ- racy. Tunis re-echoed the theme of his speech ' ith the final phrase of this creed, \We pledge aH we have to give.\

W~t QlnUtUrlll:tU.6lll FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 :EDITORIAL 2 ~!ember uf the A~~ociated Collegt~lte P!t:5:5 all<.l lii~~ tnllutor of tne Collegiate !Jig•,~t Jl,;pr~enteu fo:· ~a tional Alt\\ertistng by ~atiOI1al Aclveru::Hng tiel vM ire. Jt,L., College Publi~P- t-r~ l~L !lrE-st:ll tative:, -!:!L· Olnnror }ladi:-~·L ~\rt:llU~. )\e\·· Yvrl>. L'll,Y. \.! Causa Persa Parole . { ssai'' Ecliior•al Office. Silliman Hall, l:mon Colie;;e. Pub- lira ti<n' 0 ff.t:e. The Ga- zettE\ Pre:.:..:, 33! State St. I::hter·etl 11. the :Sc.nent:c- i.ally Pv~t Ofiice <.l.S Sec- ond Clas~ :\Jail :\latter. Suo-:cnptlun ::ie a copy; $~ year; deh\'Ll'ell uuywher~ !!; tne Cnitecl State~. Seuior llnurd ArmnJHI ,., l'~igeuiJnum ................... l~app:.t :\u l!L.ou.•c--4-7331 .............. , , ........... Edltol'-ill·Chlei J·u>lill l'~rhtcin .. , ........................ Kappa :\u l!e>U~t-·~·7331 •...•.•.••...... , , , ..•.. Bmincss ::IIunag·el' Solomon IHeehmun ..... , ......... lii ~I hi <lie Seetiun, Z'\ottl; Cc·Jiege-6-9966 . , .... , , .......... Jlun!lging ~d!tor .lnnntlmn Pl'ar ... on ......................... ~lgn1a l~ni .. ~~:il:t--1~~~~7 ............................. , Sp~n~ts ~d·~to1: samul'l Portno.~· ........................... 1- ... appa 2'\u ncu~~-.~,uu- .......................... As:o,ocJate Edltol ,J!ttniur Bonnl-l~l:.!iJl'l'i I LtYilt.l. Tht>~na:- .~:conno~. Har- n·\\ Fi~h1HIJW ... Tal'~: ~enulz. t.ir:.lugt:~· '111pp. ~orman F,:x. :'t:ti! PllntogTaJHlt->:· Snllh<Hnnrp Iloul'd-TiJOma..; Cuilen. \\'iHJarn Hart, Al- u~l·t l.,:.l'()llll.:l~. Ell\\ :..tld jtJ!lh:-,Uil, ~t:Yll1uUI' Thil.:li.m:J.h. Rusiue•-. Staff-- :\·[elville :l[essenger, Da\·.id Rosenblum. :\'Iar\'ill Ct an1t-t', I s-aw Editor .......................... Harny Fishhom• A \blunt' .................... Jn<·l, \\lmlz, B<>b Hayner ~ 'Hal' Wittner Talks of Many Things On Eve of Union-R.PJ. Football Ga,me J. Harold Wittner looked ollt<l;•~----------- from behind a fast-diminishiRg pile A $ 10 present mevely .for beating Reserving op1mOR on Art Law- of 1•eserved-seat tickets for Satur-: R. P. I. It seems as though if that renee, of course, for the time ·be- day's R. P. I. game, answered a' practice were followed. by some ing, it should prove interesting to phone which has been ringing off philanthr.opist down through the deba:te the relative merits of the . and on aU week long, and with years, Union men would have i!'O men who have headed the Garnet , characteristic Wittner courtesy many ten dollar bills that i.f they coaching staff over the past thirty , and polite manner, succeeded in· were .)aid end to end they would years. I satisfying another ticket seeker. fully cover the entire Troy Jnsti- \Hatfield by plenty,\ came the .. : In view o.f the fact that our friends tution. Or is it Institute? answer. (Elliott Hatfield was head in Troy ordered nine hund·red tick- \We have had the edge aH along coach here 1931-35.) \He had by ets without so much as batting art: the line against R. P. r., said Hal .. far the best conceived offense, and ~~================::! · eye last week, wouldn't it be possi- \Look at the record. We've lost could handle his material magni·fi- =========~~=====~============= ' bl'e ,th&t such a thing as a shortage only five games in the thirty-nine cently, getting the best out e.f eac'1 Fl'ida\. October 24. 1941 of ducats m'ght occur? ' • · · 1 · · we've played them·. The 'law of man.' \Shortage!\ exclaimed the head averages' or •cycles' that even up man of Alumni Gymnasium. \This our records with teams like Ham- The 1941 Qustion WELCOME ALUMNI place'll be a mad-house by Satur- i'lton, Rochester, and Hobart,. Getting down to cases, what day morning. Here it is only Wed- doesn't seem to apply to the about Saturday's game? The Engi- nesday and I have less than nine neers have had a blessed week of It is with the utmost of good feeling that the student body greets graduates oF the col- lege who have returned to the campus fat Alumni Horne-Coming Week-End. We are glad to be meeting you in our fra· ternity houses and student lounges, cmd are lookin.g forward to cheering with you tomor- row for a Union victory over R. P. 1. Incidentally, if you would like to see a hundred left. It's the people right R. P. I. series.\ rest. Spirit is high, so high, in fact, demonstration of Union spirit-1941 lash- here in town that cause the mix-up. The Secret of Success that the campus is to be patrolled They go through or past tl::ie cam- Not only interesting but highly by S>tudents aN night to11cight. Mr. ion-you should view the pre-game rally pus three or four times a week, yet gratifying is such a record. Is it Wittner had an intimate view of tonight at the gymnasium. If the rally is wait till the last minute, practic- possible that Union has gathered R. P. I. at work when he 1·efereed ally, te as'k for tickets.\ in a brawnier, heavie1•, more ath- · the Rensselaer-Drexel game last similar to those Union has held thus far this The phone rang again. From all letic type of man than the typical month in Troy. year, we think that you will be glad to have indications, there would be no lack Engineer, through all the years? \They've got a g.ood club,\ came seen it. of either spirit or spectators for \It has aJways seemed to me that· the prop•hecy < ?l. But I :;:eriously Saturday's classic. Not comparable R. P. L has had the talent, weight doubt that any good can come of to \the old days,\ though. and brains, the same as we have,\ a week's layoff to a team like opined Mr. Wittner. \The differ- R. P. I. Aside from heaJ.ing of in- A Bit of Retrospect 1' · th h' d d' \Times have changed a lot of ence Jes m , e coac, mg an u·ec- juries, I can't see any distinct ad- tion that we've had here as com- vantage for them. And here's one t•!'lings,\ said the Athletic Director d 1 t t T \ OUR SOPHOMORIC SOPHOMORES In the resumption of the traditional fresh- man-sophomore tug of war and cane rush, the class of 194-± was able to turn out 30 men, as against 150 freshmen. This poor turnout by the sophomores made a mere fo.rmality of the competition which could and should have been one of the high points in inte1·-class rivalry of this year. The campus recognized this apathy on the part of the sophomores, and comment was noised about to the effect that the sopho- more class was showing the poorest class spil'it of any sophomore group of the past few years. Naturally the class of 1944 did not like this comment, and certain of its members determined to show that it was un- fair. A number of sophomores decided, there- fore, that they were going to clear the name of their class; they were going out to paint the Idol Thursday (last night). They were going to shO\v the freshmen and the campus in general that the sophomore class did have spirit, that the sophomore class was not go- ing to allow initiative in inter-class rivalry to remain in the hands of the freshmen. Up to this point, the spirit and the class consciousness of the sophomores were com- mendable-they mirrored the general atti- tude of the campus which observers have termed \best spirit we have seen at Union.\ Then sophomores decided that this Idol painting should be connected with reprisals for freshman action in past weeks on or about the Idol. From all reports, members of the sopho- more class singled out certain members of the class of 1945 as those who should be sub- ject to reprisals. Instead of pitting the sophomore class against the freshmen as a whole, a goodly portion of the sophomore class would point out to certain freshmen the error of their ways. To put their words to action, members of the class of 1944, organizing to a certain and a very limited extent, met last night and invaded the first house listed. with a smile of reminiscence, as he pare ~o t la a roy. important thing I've noticed about Commg from a man who has ' Rensselaer teams over the years; began t.o consult the Department's watched R. P. I. and Union in their I once you beat them to the punch, file of records. I remember my last seventeen encounters, sucll .a that is, score first, they're a lot first R. P. I. game, wllen I was a statement has a good deal of logtc easier from then on. That may be The freshmen in this house had been sent to the third floor by upperclassmen, but this proved no problem fo1· the sophomores. Thirty sophomores, or as many as the class of 1944 had been able to get out for the cane rush, invaded the fraternity house and while being talked out of the house by upperclass- men, the fraternity freshmen escaped outside to meet the challenge. Almost as many soph- omores as had entered the house were wait- freshman here. Freshmen were eli- d f b about it. Since the a vent o e- the tipoff.\ gible then, you know. That was in loved Walter \The Duke\ Nelson -;;;::::;;~;;::::::;::;::;::;;;::::;;:::::=;;::::~~=i1 ing without. The freshman class, l'!smg to the battle, began to fight with the sophomores around the Idol and at various other points on the 1916.\ , at Troy, however, the Cherry and !':' A quick look at the record card White fortt:mes seem to be on the marked \19\6\ show\d Union the rise. winner by the rather impressive \No doubt about it,\ Hal was score of 45-0. Surely a game to be quick to add. \They really got a. remembererl, but obviously one of coach when they got Nelson. He those thing£ which everyone was gave them their best team in a taking for granted right up untH generation last year, and has a bet- , game time. ter than fair outfit.\ 1 \The strange thing about that game was that Rensselaer was pretty generally considered to be on the long of 2 to 1 odds. A good deal of money changed hands aft- er that game. In fact, that was the only game I ever played in that I bet on. And it turned out that a $5 investment I made was a darn good one.\ I 111111111111111 I 11111111111 I lllllllllllltllllllll campus. The sophomores were able to con- \' 1 tend very successfully, because they had been : THE ., 1 able to turn out almost twice as many men 1 /1 . All~ for a midnight brawl as they had for the \I /} 1//l ~~ ... ;·~ I organized cane rush and tug of war. They 1: ~~ . 1 were able to contend successfully apparently because they decided to take the disciplining of individual freshmen into their own hands. · They were not going to pursue the organized system that the Student Council voted in last year-a preconceived system of Fresh- man Orientation wherein sophomores were able to discipline freshmen in a sensible fashion. MOD.ERN DIN'ER · Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER make • The man who coined the phrase \sopho- moric\ to characterize ill-conceived and im- , mature actions of college students might just as well have had some of the members of the class of 1944 in mind. Their actions last night in turning what should have been the rejuvenation of sophomore class spirit into an unsportsmanlike display pointed at in- ; vidual freshmen rather than at freshmen as: a whole can only add another black mark to the escutcheon of a class that has this year done little to give itself any credit. ::u::~u:Jt'::·: :·:::::::1]~::111 r nd! THE R. P. I. GAME When the Cherry and White of R. P. I. and the Garnet of Union run onto the Alex- ander Field gridiron tomorrow, there will be behind the elevens the panorama of one of the oldest and fullest of gridiron relations in American football history. There are the personalities, both past and present, which have been involved in the riv- alry; there is the deep humor of the first game with its referee who had bet his money on one team and did his best to help that team win. There is the inevitable tragedy of the gridiron death that must mar all long- time rivalries, and the discontent rising when one school had won more than its share of games, and the demonstrations of the healthy spirit of competition between the two student bodies. There are, too, the occasional frictions caused by occasional demonstrations on the part of both student bodies which have made it appear at times that athletic relations would be broken off \for all time.\ Despite these black days, there has always remained the unalterable fact that two insti- tutions, but twelve miles apart and with stu- dents of different academic interests, have been able to maintain for over half a century a rivalry which has had an ever rising plane of good spirit. When the Garnet meets the Engineers to- morrow, indications point that this spirit will be at its highest plane in generations at Union. For Union recognizes that success in a football rivalry is measured as much in the good spirit of the players and those in the stands as it is by gaining- much-coveted vic- tory in the contest. We think that the 40th Union-R. P. I. game and first on new Alexander Field is going to be dedicated tomorrow by good fel- lowship between members of the opposing student bodies, a clean, hard fought football game, and, just between us, a victory for the Garnet. Just the kind of suit you'll needi for campus or street wear.' Rugged as a football. yet softly constructed for a smart comfortable fit. Hand tailored, three button lounge model in colorful new Herringbones, Diagonals and Overplaids. Slip into a St. Ives Shetland and step out in real style. Joseph's The Sh.op for Union Men I. llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll On many of the defense projects encountered by the Bell System, the work sheets- showing telephone facilities needed and time allowed- would make a good, conservative eng·ineer's hair stand on end. For example, take the Navy's huge new air base near Corpus Christi, Texas, which covers 14,500 acres, includes 29 separate flying fields and 481 buildings. Closely connected with the base are Defense Housing projects for 1700 families. Imagine the complex problems involved in planning tele- phone facilities for this new \city\ where formerly there were sand dunes-in obtaining and installing miles and miles of wire and cable, switchboards, telephones by the thousand. But telephone engineers and construction men took hold -proceeded to shatter records-completed their huge task in seemingly impossible time. For men with the \will to do,\ there's a real thrill in such Bell System work! I [ 1 m ni ye ce Cc co fu $2 w• h~ $4 of bt fo \d fa Ul ar st at Cc h~ pe Ol cr fo UI 00 in y, ni hi h( F1 hi de til to hi he yc be fa m Cl p! fe se gc sc \i a! tb te a w u w gr se VII of u le OJ to

2 ·be- to irty the by and of Mr. of last arne e of like in- ad- one bout lot be R d. 3 FEATURE FR:IDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 Bailey Completes 40 Yea :rs As College Treasurer Devoted Alumnus Ha:s Enjoyed Doing The 'Unprofita.bl,e Things In Life' ~---- --:------------------------~---------- time a \floor\ has> ·been placed un- der the salaries of the various grades of instruction. How did Frank Bai'ley solve the practical pt·oblem of making the $400,000 endowment funds in 1901 produce the necessary $50,000 an- Years of Service, Philanthropy Mark Attempted 'Repayment' ql:lently had to grant him \ease- nual income, the minimum required ments\ on his bills. to keep the college open at that · Union's faith ·in Frank Bailey has t.jtne? He himself once explained: By MILTON M. ENZER, '29 · been repaid many times. rn the ''This was quite a ·problem to put ·first place he achieved high rank up to a young man (he was then UnheraJlded, today's trust e e s· in the work for which he entered 36) . . . With the aid of friends, meeting marks a.n important an- college: he \\Tas a brilliant schola·r, I invested much of our money of niversar·y at Union College. Forty winning Phi Bet Kappa honors and the College irt common stocks of years ago, Frank Bailey, '85, ac-' was a commencement orator. His· about the &arne kind that I was cepted the treasaryship of Union rooms in the dormitory was a pop- ·buying for myself. The terms of College at a time when the in-: ulat' place with hia fellow students. the game, however, were-you win, come from its $400,000 endowment After graduation, he went job- I lose.\ He made up any losses, the fuBde aBd tuition amounted only to' hemUng in New York in the sum- college r•eceived a:H its gains on $25,000 whi·le the annual expenses mer of 1885 and finally found one these investments. He played this were $50,000. Toda,y Union College: at the Title Guarantee and Trust game until 1930, when two college has an endowment book value of Company. He held a position with trustees insisted that the entire $4,500,000 whose income with that this company until he \retired\ in portfolio of stocks aBd securities of tuition mairttains an aHnuai 1925 as ·president, having held every be converted into conservative pre- blidget of $550,000. Only twice in jo-b from office boy, including 28 ferred stocks and \trust invest- forty years, de&pite three major' yea·m as a vice-president. ments.\ That change of policy cost \depressien periods,\ has Union In 1925, only 60 years old and Union College heavy material failed to operate in \the •blacl,,\ in excellent health, he was asked losses . In 1901, the income from student tuition fees barely reached $3,000 annually. Today students contri- bute $32,000 in fees, and income from endowments funds produce the remaining $230,000 needed to operate the college. This brilliant achievement for: why he retired from active business Union College is difficult to match at the peak of his abilities>. He re- anywhere. Yet, at 77, Frank Bailey plied, \I want to work less and still modestly \hopes\ he wil'l be· devote some more time to the so- able \to repay ais debt to Union· caHed 'unprofitable things of life.' College.\ What is this debt? Why I especially refer• to Union College has Frank Bailey refused any com- of which I am treasurer, and to pensation for conducting the ardu- the Brooklyn Botanic ·Gar•den of ous duties of maintaining and in- which I am chairman, and to the Changes During His Regime creasing the funds of the col•lege cultivation ef flower& and trees In 1901, the principal buHdings for forty years when colleg-e t·reas-· which has been my real business on the campus were North and urers as a rule receive about a $10,-· for about 15 years.\ South CoNege dormitories with 000 salary? When he took over the office in their colonnades for classroams, 1901, he told the trustees and Pres- Washburn Hall, and the Nott Me- ident Andrew Van Vranken Ray- moria! Hall, BOW the library. Since Testimonial Dhmer It was at the testimonial dinner mond, '75, that he would enforce then, under Frank Bailey's finan- in his honor, given by the New three rules: \First &econd and cia! leadership have been added York Alumni AssociaHon the fatal third, we must live on the income nine buildings and others were night the English king abdicated· of the college, even if it is enough greatly improved, The college plant publ·ic, Bailey Hall in 1929. It is estimated unofficially that their gifts during the past forty years total more than $500;000, including their recent gift of $25,000 with which to provide additional base- ment space in the college Ubrary .for about 60,000 books and thus add room for 65 more students in reading room above. Mr. and Mrs. Bailey have also endowed a schol- arship in memory of thei·r son, Frank Bailey, J.r., '31. Because Frank Bailey rarely mis::;es a trustees' meeting, it was difficult for the college formally to express> its appreciation of his serv- ice to the ceHege. When he was wbsent, however, he was voted an honorary degree. The alumni also chose him as the first alumnus to receive the Alumni Medal award for disting1:1is£ed service to the cellege when they established this prize in 1936. Mr. Bailey insists that other trustees have contributed equally to the college development. In his 1936 report he said: \To keep the college income and market value has been very difficult. How many time I have longed for an account whet'e safety of principal was the only consideration, for that is an easy task. I have always in the 35 years of my task been open to a very just criticism, for I would have hesitated to trust any treasurer as you have trueted me. Do not for even a second imagine that I am not keenly appreciative of th€ loyalty of Ed Barney <Edgar S. Barney, '84), Dr. George Alexander, '-; Mandy (Hubert C. Mandeville, '88), and Todd (Hiram C. Todd '97) and others. They have held up my hand~ when I needed support.'' A Oompleted Job, Well Done his British throne \for the woman to support only three students.'' was valued' at $1,000,000 in 1901, and he loved,\ in 1936, that laconic· Function of a College today it is conservatively valued at When that winter the alumni pre- Frank Bailey quietly confessed that' He stated his philosophy regard- I $3,500,000. The faculty staff has sented ·him with an old Sheffield his work of increasing Union's en-. ing the college's purpose that I been increased from 29 to about silver cigarette case inscrtbed with dowment funds more than ten \Union College should be a center 90, and the student body has grown an appreciation for his 35 years' times was merely .parl of his effor·t for the dissemination of cultu,·e from 200 to about 800 (statutory service to the college and accom- to repay the college for granting and practical education among the limit since 1929). panied it with a leatherbound test- him a scholarship without which poor boys of the land, a manufac- During his administration, there imoniul in which were inscribed h t d II ' t f th 1 d f th f t their names, Frank Bailey respond- he could not ave en ere co' ege. ory o e ea ers o e u ure were built on the campus the Frank Bailey was a lanky, tall where cum laude diploma is pre- Alumni Gymnasium, Butterfield ed: \My work is nearly over. While th I . d t b 'II f tl f d t 1 d h' t it has been an expensive job for you · , inc me o e 1 requen Y erre · o cum au e s tr , a cen- Memorial Chemistry Building, h f t H . t h 't · t b d' t me, there has 'been a tinge of ro- becausc he ad grown too as . ts cr w ere mert · t& no su or ma e Bailey Hall, Electrical Engineering father was a country doctor and to position, and ability is not Building (the latter two, gifts of mance in aid.Jng the rebuilding of d · th t b t h h t t lth h th our college. It has been more diffi- much belove 1n e coun ry a ou . syc op an o wea· , w ere e Mr. and Mrs. Bailey), Biology Hall, cult than it would have been to Chatham, N. Y. way, where his only standard is brains and brains Genera 1 Engineering Building, · t · b t h 11 d 1 d \ form a new college. But a good practtce was ex ens1ve, · u w ere we eve ope . Physics Laboratory, the Memorial W . h job has been done. We now have few had the money to pay for his 1t the college in precarious Chapel and Silliman Hall. Major · F k B ·r t d t fi · 1 h F k B ·1 • once more a first class college. services. ran at ey wan e o nancta s ape, ran at ey s alterations and improvements in- 11 Th I k f bl . f 1 fi · 1 1 d h' 'I \The story is over, but now go to co ege. e ac o pu tc power u nancta ea ers tp eas1 Y eluded cement roadways on the schools placed him among those could have given him a powerful 100 acre campus, modernization of some may be thinking, 'why did he • · 1 1 d\ L k' · · th d r 1 d · · do all this work?' Let me read you '1rregu ar y .prepare . ac tng vo1e: m e e uca wna a mtms- 1 the dormitories, Hale House, Old a letter of four lines which was also funds, he should have ·been tra.twn of the college. But. he has Chapel, building of Geology Hall, I d . d b t t tl dh d t 1 th t received by my mother on June thorough y IScourage a ou en- s nc Y a · ere o a po tcy a the college library, Mountebanks 12 , 1881 . It is dated June ll. The tering college. But he applied for the treasurer should control only Theatre, and landscaping the cam- a scholarship at Union Cellege the income producing aide of finan- pus. letter which influenced my life h h . df th s 1 · 1 ff · h k' 1 more than any other letter €Ver w ere IS gran a er, amue cia a airs, c ec tng expense. s on Y While Mr. and Mrs. Bat' ley have 1 6 h th h d h d th b d received by me or any member of Utley, had been graduated in 82 w en e. y. a . reac e €Ir. u .- made frequent generou~ gt'fts to · h N t A · • t 1 t t b t 1 t ~ my family. By that letter I incurred while Eltp alet ot , mer1ca s ge ~ry liD! a tons, u ea':'t~g t the college only one was made greatest college president, had entirely to the college admrmstra- ______ ' ___________ a_n_i_n_d_e_b_t_ed_n_e_ss_w_h_ic_h_f_o_r_a_t_h_ir_d served. tion to determine how the expendi- ..-------------------.-.---------------------·, Although his· own father, Dr. tures could best be made to pro- I · ~ William c. Bailey, was a graduate duce the greatest return to the stu- 1 I C E t of R.P.I., Frank chose Union. And dents. ~ C R E A M t 1 Union chose to underwrite his col- Frank Bailey has insisted that tl t lege career with a scholarship and the college has to have a well-paid 1 opportunities for jobs with which faculty if it is going to attract : One gallon of the very best Ice Cream, I to pay his e:xipenses. The college fre- and hold good teachers. During his I I : 111 any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. I $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6·1248 f Bellevue Dairy f ! ________________________________________________ : Anything you need? Call GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 Gl:ee Club Program For Year, List Of Members Announced [:y Leaders Shortage ·of Funds Necessarily Limits Use of New Pieces Glee Club leaders this week an- nounced the completion of plans for the year's program and com- pletion of the· list of Glee Club members. Although a shortage of funds has necessitated the use of several old pieces in the program, officials of the or:ganization predict that it will be a popular one. ''~·-----·---- --------~ Third Gi'oup \Dance of the Gnomes\ .............. Edward \From the Sea\ .Edward \Cradle Scmg\ .. Edward McDowell McDowell McDowell Fourth Group \Menagerie\ ... Sodero and Enderti <Humorous) \Barefoot Boy\ Whittiei· ..... . ........................ Tidmarsh \Yonder Yonder\ Russian Folk Melody (arranged by Samuel R. Gaines). \The year's program includes The Glee Club members, of several interesting features,\ John whom there are sixty, have been Grow, '42, said yesterday. ·practicing at least four times a \One is the inclusion of the week and are expected to be able \Barefoot Boy\ by Whittier and to carry a concert soon after the Dr. Tidmarsh. Another is the ar- first of next year. rangement of \Where 'Ere You Walk\ by Charles Gilbert Spross, Those in the Glee Club are: who is of the Capital District and First Tenors: Aaron Feinsot '45, a friend of Dr. Tidmarsh's. Thomas Hanson '45, Robert Horst- The program is as follows: mann '44, Amasa Howland '43, Wi,J- First Group ·nam Lasser '45, Chester Marvin '45. \Hallelujmh Amen\ from \Judas Abram Molyneaux '44, Glenn Mor- Maccabaeus ............. Handel ris '44, Albert Rinaldi '44. \Trust in the Lord\ Second Tenors: Burton Ball '44, (Largo from Xerxes)··· .Handel John Bourquin '45, Don Brate '45, \Where 'Ere You Walk\ Marlin Delaney '42, Peter Fil'l·a '45, from Semele · · · · · · · · · · · · ·Handel Edward Fliegel '42, Mario Genova Arranged by Charles Gilbert Spross '45, Charles Gould '44, Paul Rob- Second Group erts '45, Robert Schamberger '45, \Song of the Golden Calf\ Claire Smith '44, Haigaz .Saatjian fr.om Faust ............. Gounod '44, Don Stevens '43, Dorsey Thom- \Landsighting\ as '45, Norman Vivien '43, Don <Landkennung) ........... Greig Wells '42. \The Lord's Prayer\ · · · · · Malotte Baritones: George Anderson '43, of a century it has been my con- stant effort to repay. I hope that now that my hair is gray, that once was brown, and I know I am slowing down, I have nearly com- pleted my payment. This is the let- ter: \'Dear Madam, Your &on will be given a first grade scholarship as offered on Page 40 of our catalogue on passing satisfactory examina- tion. Very respectfully, Wendell Lamoroux.' \ Today as the Trustees hold their annual fall meeting, Union men should pay their respects to the man who for forty years has helped to light Union's way through diffi- cult times: Frank Bailey of the Class of 1885. George Goley '42, John Dempster '43, Spencer Gowrie '45, John Grow '42, Joseph Harmon '45, William Johnson '44, Lee Landes '45, Bald- win Lucke '43, Theodore Male '43, Paul Moran '44, Gary Price '45, Milton Ru::~::;um '45, Robert Sohl- berg '44, Ewood Starn '44, William Stillman '42, Walter Theissen '42, Clarence Woodward '42, Robert Zell '44. Basses: Fred Brand '42, Stephen Clarke '44, Robert Forrest '42, Har- old H. Friedman '43, Judd Grey '44, Ted Grey '44, Robert Hayner '43, Joseph Jaycox '42, Harold Joslin '43, Oscar Kruesi '45, Louis Loeb '43, William Motisher '44, Richard Raymond '45, Whitridge Raymond '43, Bundy Shaw '42, James Smith '44. It Won•t Be long ... Thanksgiving's almost here and so are winter sports ..• skiing, skating, tobogganning, and the rest. So start pre- paring now. We've got it all. CLARK WITBECK Quality Hardware Since 1870 416-418 STATE ST. PHONE 4-4161 * Welcome Alumni TALK OVE;R THE CAME AND OLD TI.MES at TONY'S UNION INN * BEER' LIQUO:RS LUNCHES

t lty dy ect of ad- $42 to Di- t a col- the be at 30. the rles col- he ster The s in at aca- Mr. em- the that the ~ub- - - - - - - - - - Record·s Disclose G;ridiron History; R. P. l. Relations Traditional Rivalry Has Produced Many Interesting incidents The fi.rst intercollegiate football game ever playPd by a Garnet elev- en was fought againEt R. P. I. at Albany on November 20, 1896. This game was played by a team repre- senting the whole university and chosen by eJim.ination in a game between Union ColJPge and Albany Medical School two weeks prev.J. ous. Footba.Jl was then a very new sport aJt Union. AH d1:1ring the sev-, enties, the only sports at which Union had been track and base- ball, which was also played in the fall. The baseball team feN into disrepute however, between 1883 and 1885, and the Fall of 1886 saw the agitation for a new game and the formation of the Union College Football Association under the leadership of C. W. Carver '89. The game with R. P. I. soon followed. The score of this first game was disputed &nd will never be accu- rately known. The first part of the game saw R. P. I. take the lead but Union rallied later. No sooner had the Dutchmen began to gain an edge, however, when the referee began to see strange fouls that penalized the Schenectady men. At the same time, he began to allow their opponents to score on defi· nitely illegal plays. When Union then prevented any other scoring altogether, he called the game. It was later discovered that he had bet his money on R. P. I. The referee's score was R. P. I. 11, Union 4; Union's score was Union 4, R. P. I. 0, and the game ended in a dispute. This was the only game Union played in 1886. In the next nineteen years, how- ever, Union ke.pt a normal sched- ule of nine to twelve games a year, playing opponents such as Army, Colgate, Cornell, Syracuse, Prince- ton, Rutgers, and N. Y. U., as well as Hamilton, R. P. I., Amherst, Wesleyan, Williams, and other small colleges. The only practice for these games at first was long practice games in which it was not infrequent for several men to be injured. .Death Takes .Jts Toll Black times for the game, though, appeared on December 8, 1905 when Harold Mo.ore, '08 was killed in the last game of the sea- son against N. Y. U. An intercol- legiate conference met immediately in New York and voted upon modi- fications of the rules to prevent the total abolition of the game. In spite of this, the Union student body decided to abolish football in January, 1906. They did however, retain it in intramural contests in order to test the new rules. Find- ing them extremely satisfactory, they voted again to continue the sport. With 54 seasons of football be- hind them, Union has played R. P. I. a total of 39 games. The score now stands Union-29, R. P. I.-5, Ued-4, disputed.-1. R. P. I.'s big- gest win against Union came in 1933 with a score of 16-0. Union's biggest win stands at 45-0 occuring in 1911. Two other games were fought in Albany after the initial encounter. one of these being a benefit game in 1931. The remainder have been divided evenly between Schenec- tady and Troy, each claiming eighteen. <The material used in this article was obtained from research by Professor Wilford H. Ketz and from the records of the Athletic Department.) So • • • CAMPUS Tunis M:eets With The Concordiensis SCENE Mamma, What Shall We Do? The main fuse blew out the oth· er night on the lower floor of Oldgym Hall. Proctor Gordon Rust was out and a group 0f eager to get back to work freshmen called Mr~. Fox and asked what to do. She caJ:Jpd M1·. HoadlPy who dis- patched a trouble shooter who f·ixed the fuse, A favorite Oldgym trick two , yeats ago was to shut off the main .power line, which a.Jsu servea South Colleg.e, fot· a second or two stopping Llmosl every electric clock in the dorm. • Another Idol Job A group of e>n campus freshmen, · eager to paint the Idol while the sophomores were so lax, seized the opportunity the other night to c-oat President Fox answer-s an inquiry of Mr. Jo·hn R. TWJis, noted author, who sits in the \slot\ of The Concordiensis copy desk. Mr . Tunis was entertained by the sta,ff of the paper on Wednesday eve- ning. Seated around him are various boar.d memb!\rs of the publication. the statue a stove black and to dab in the eyes and mouth with white paint. They sang and danced around the Idol in an effort to Jure some sophomores out. Finally about eight responded and the sixty freshmen took them over. Tunis 'FiresAwa;y' At Bull Session, Discusses Football, War Situation \What do you think would hap-~ ·-------- ]Den if Union subsidized football?\ asked lean, dynamic, fast-talking John R. Tunis, from the position of hon0r \in the slot\ of The Con- colldiensis office -during the heat . of a turbulent discussion. \We'd eventuaHy get good enough to move out of o1:1r present class, and into a higher one,\ said .one of the party, which included, besides Concordy men, President Fox, Bur- ges Johnson and Milt Enzer. \Then what?\ snapped Tunis. \We'd lose in our higher league, until eventually we paid higher prices, began to win more often, and finally got ready to move up another notch. \Then what?\ \We'd keep on going up until we got into the highest circles our fi- nances would allow, and then we'd be almost purely a football college.\ \And you wouldn't want that.'' \Of course not.\ A Shift in the Discussion And so it went-rapid fire, all out frank conversation, with Tunis spouting facts like machine gun bullets, Dr. Fox inserting a restrain- ing word when attacks on the ac- tivities of neighb-oring colleges be- came the more vicious and the less factual, Burges Johnson recalling stories of the situation at schools he knew, and Concordy men insert- ing questions and ft'ank comments. It was Tunis who brought tthe discussion up short with the ques- tion, \Do y.ou think the United States should declare war on Ger- many?\ Opinion was divided, but Tunis pressed his point with the directness and vigor of a veteran reporter. Every answer brought on a new question-\What then?\ \If what you say is true, what does that mean?\ Before the discussion could turn into an easy-going bull-session, Tunis fired another question, \If the election of 194·0 were repeated today, what would be the feeling of the campus on the two candidates?\ This brought less discussion, but more definite conclusions. The whole question would turn on the war policy of the candidate. Came 11:15 and there was an eight-page .Concordy to put out. Free-lance sportswriter, rnagaz:ne contributor, author of boolts, stu- dent of the institution of the Amer- ican college, John R. Tunis had rr..et and examined one portion of the Union campus. What consensus he b8k with him is impossible to say. In return, he left an inspiring picture of a rugged character whose convictions and reporter's spirit will help him continue his many examinations of all the va- ried phases of American education. R. P. I. GAME (Continued from Page 1) good number of graduates, young and old, will be on hand to \cheer for Alma Mater once again.\ The feminine element, as always, will surely be in evidence. Many fraternity houses, the better to en- tertain the crowd of fair guests, alumni, and R. P. I. visitors, are planning tea dances after the game, as well as buffet suppers and other social functions. Before kick-off time tomorrow at two o'clock, R. P. I. and Union will have met in two other contests: freshman football, and freshman cross-country. Between the halves of the ·main \go\, the varsity cr0ss- country teams will get away from the mark. So it's, \Ready R. P. I.? Ready, Union? Okay, Mr. Referee, blow that whistle!\ ----,0--- North College Freshmen To Raise Flag Daily North College freshmen this week took over the early morning task of raising the flag to the top of Union's 100 foot flagpole on Li· brary Field . The freshmen volunteered to take over the task from Robert Bishop, North College chairman, who has been raising and lowering the flag for about one year. Two flags were returned from a local department store early this week where they had been in a \bottleneck\ for more than a month in an effort to have new seams sewed. The freshmen will take the job in weekly tricks. Routed, the sophomores fled while the freshmen stood their ground in front of the Idol, The only remaining opposition was jun- ior Bud Green, who defiantly screamed from a second story win- dow of the D. U. house \freshmen come out and fight.\ Wa,fer, Water Eight small boys invaded the Alpha Delta Phi house Wednesday afternoon looking f.or a drink of water. Standing on the front steps they demanded \water\ from the brothers. 'I'he Alpha Delts pulled that old freshman fraternity trick. Stand up pretty and have your picture took they said and then showered the children with waste baskets full of water. The kids dodged and asked for more. The Alpha Delts responded with baskets of hot wa- ter. Still dry the children asked f-or more. More water was thrown, little of it hitting the children. As marks- men, the Alpha Delt aim is all wet. Bernie Mullen Our good friend Bernie Mullen, the Chesterfield man, was around the other night with a copy of the letter Mr. W. B. Hall, Albany Divi- sion Manager of Liggett and My- ers had written to New York. It read in part \ ... We feel sure that the granting of this request would be very helpful to Mr. Mullen and to our business at Union College.\ No reply has as yet been re- ceived from New York but Mr. Hal'l wrote Bernie: \ ... feel con- fident that Mr. Waring will grant the request.\ Bernie joined in dorm bull ses- sions Wednesday evening handing out packages of Chesterfields and swinging the con:versation to cigar- ettes. We questioned him about his work and learned that he spends \Oh you men are all alike!\ GET THE BEST All men alike? Look at 'em! Tall, skinny, squat, plump! But it doesn't faze us-in our Arrow Shirt family you'll find collars to suit all male shapes and tastes. • Fine canned goods • Superior meats • With free delivery at Handleman•s Food Market \where quality reigns\ Arrows also have the famous \Mitoga\ figure-fit, up-to·the-minuta styling, and they're Sanforized-Shrunk (fabric can't shrink even 1%!) Get some Arrow Shirts today, • • • • • o $2 up NQ:SBAUM'S ~47-461 S~AT.E STREET TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1941 UJqe C!IntttUt~tttt!lt!i some eight days o1:1t of a month in- K\ k • k terviewi-ng students and faculty If pa·trl~c.. Loo·ks members on the campus. He does not sell at all but merely points out· .·fo.rwa·rd To V 1 .s 1 .t why students should smoke Ches-' terfields. And he smokes his own brand. · John Kit·kpatriclt, famous writer and director, said in a letter to Mr. Sport Sfor,y Gordon A. Rust. director of thP. \The Skidmore News\ tepurt,;. CoiJpg-e ThE'atre; \I am looking \Amid mellow sh1ieks and erie:; of forward with a great dPal of pleas- \Hold thaot line,\ the stur·dy sopho- ure to my stay at Union and am more football team downed the particularly happy that the play I aging seniors with a scorP of 12•0. am to direct is 'Outward Bound'. I \Bedecked in their gayest and knc'w of very f<'W mudl'l'n plays newest outfits, the seniors strolled which have greater stt·pngth, imag- d h inative bea utv or a more univP'r- aroun t e playing field display- sal appeal.\ Outwat·d Bound is thn ing a caskeu la'belled 1944, which ' initial piHy of thP MountPhank~ was carried by two of their gr·oup for this season. or vice-versa. \The sophomores revealed amaz- His first thPater ex1\'1 ienec was ing versatility with their drum and acquired when hP worked in the bugle corpl>, led by an attractive theater unde!· the a!'gL> of Miss drum majorette, Clake Anderson. Rachel Crothers with whom his sis- The one casualty was Floppy· ter and he were associated for a Gutchen, who was so ably attended numbe~· of years. His first job was by Dr. Patsy Sullivan that she re- ~sas~.~.slstant stagemanager in \39 mained unconscious for only 172 hours. He was stage manager of \Nice People\ staning Talullah Bank- \The seniors fought a hard bat~ h tie, but could not overcome the ead and Katherine Cornell. A few Wel ·l pl d 1 f th . . t of the other plays he directed were anne · pays o e1r SIS er \E class.\ xpressing Willie,\ \The Love Lady,\ and also \0 Nightingale.\ And that is footbail as they play it at Slddrnore. Four of his plays were produced professionally. One of these, \The Freshmen Parties We have heard some criticism of the Union-Skidmore freshmen par- ties by members of the class of 1945 who have maintained that they were unfair and in bad taste when they threw men and women together. We don't see how that criticism could be at all valid. A few others have said that the party lacked variety. Thus this column was interested in the Ham- ilton-Wells freshmen party at Wells to which all the Hamilton freshmen probably went. The party was formal, introductions were made by upperclassmen, after din- ner the couples took in a movie, dancing was with an orchestra and the party ended at one o'clock. B~ok of Charm,\ was produced by Mrss Crothers. Besides these he also was the author of thirty-two one act plays, two of which merited the distinction of being placed among the \Best One Act Plays of 1939.\ At one time he had his own :mhool_ in dramatics but at present IS a dt:rector at the Faegin School of Dramatic At•t.\ Along with his stage career he has had two Hollywood contracts. One was with Metro and the other with Paramount. During all these years as director and writer on stage and screen, he has associated with such celebrities as: Tallulah Bankhead, Francine Barrimore, Rachel Crothers, Katherine Cor- nell, and Walter Abel. ~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••a•~•••••••••••••••••~ • • 5 CREAM-CREST : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5 Vitamin D Milk 5 • • : Supplies that needed energy for the : : coming winter months. : • • • • : GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. 5 • F S . • • or ervrce Phone 4-3 121 • • • ~ .............................................. ~ \Where have I seen that shirt be/ore?\ You'll see Arrow shirts all over the campus. By actual survey, two out of three college men , .,·efer Arrows! Every Arrow has a smart new Arrow <>ollar (sloped for comfort) ; e:very Arrow has 1\Iitoga figure-fit (for trimness) ; and every one is Sanforized-shrunk (fabric shrinkage less than I o/o) • Get some today! $2, up. Spruce up with Arrow ties that harmonize. $1, $1.50.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 ALUMNI 0 B • ! est. For one period of sevPn years, I funds. He was as puzzled by this I T t G d t n eing I the Council gave my offic.e . a I ap.purent lack of appre~iation fl.S I ru· s e·es ra ·Ua e framed panel photograph of 1ts 1 had been by the showmg of stu- . · 1 · Council Alumni Meet Tonight nwmbcr;;-hip; and it camP as a d<'nt lPaders when they became -'. Alun·lllUS good deal of a shock to me some j alumni. As against this surprise -- ~\-\. n . . . . years later, to realize how few thPt'e is another. and an enrourag- ( t A'l • , 06 , of t.hese undergt:aduatP leaders I in!'.\ one; and that is thC' number OU·n· y 1 U;.·m·n, 1 B~· CHARLlo~S N. WALDRON . . Th,• iJ~a of an organ- tzed alUIIl·lli body ;;t·n·ing the col'll'ge whieh had serv<>d its members as un- dPq!;rad.uat.Ps is ~ charar- \Pri~ticall~· ArnE>rtcan one. lt is not thl' custom Hl Enr<·>JW. nnr !'ven in Eng- land It wHs not done m this country in thl' early clnY>': in fac>t. the first col- lf'if' alumni assoctation::; apJ'l('arPd at Hat vard and at Union in 1825. ::Ju f<.:t· more than a hundred years it has been. a cor- nerston<' upon whrch thf' independent Am eric~ n collce;(' has rPstf'd hE>avrly and to its gn•at advant- \~e. The SUCC'l'\S')~' o_f 0~1: first alumni as-wcmtwn · 8 meeting on the ca·mp~s Saturday. October 25. It IS caliE>d the Graduatc> Coun- cil. It meets twicE> a year and bri·ngs baclt. between sixty and seventy . cl~ss and alumni at'socmtwn representatives. Bob Bak- er is its freshman, Graduate Council Meeting as he is to represent the class of were active as alumni. As I recall 1942. It seems. therefor~. a good it now, I found only three out of a time to raise this questiOn about group of over fifty, who in the \be~ an alumnus.\ . . h alumni body wet'e playing anything It was my class, 19°6: :-\hr~ like the role they had played on founded the Terrace Co_uncll m ~a: I the campus. The majority were in- spring of that year. Thrs body . 1 differE>nt alumni, and a discour- th<> dir·}Cting heat! of underpad-1 aging number paid no attention uate affair·~ until th_e p.r<>sent Stu- 1 whatever to the Colll'ge. dE>nt Council was maugurated a , • ars a 0 Election to its Last year Fred Frost. 37, can- few b-y~ h' g.·. considered the vassed the classes in college wi_th ~em ers 5 1 fude:~:; honor for the him in behalf of thE> Alumni Grft hrghest . h• · · I Fund. His letters were personal, men chosen were, 1n t e opmton . . d d tes the l eading men and exceHPnt. The t esult that sm- of men who turn out to be leaders in our alumni work, but whose col- leo-e careers were not conspicu- o:S. Apparently, being an active alumnus has little to do with prominence as an unde1·graduate, or with the financial assistance re- ceived from the College. Banquet Tonight Studeii.ts Representing Each Class to At.tend Dinner as Guests In anticipation .of one of the: ; largest influxes of alumni to the 1 campus in ma.ny years for Home- ' cumi·ng Weell.entl thb Friday and . Saturday. the .Schenectady County 1 1 Alumni Association is planning a I banquet at t.he Mohawk Country Club for this Friday eveaing, it was announced yesterday by . · I Charles L. Hequembourg, '12, of Schenectacly. An unusua:l featu1·e of Friday's banquet wiH be the presence of four membe·rs of the student body, one from each class. Those who will attend are Jonathan Pearson, '42 .. Philip Van R. Thompson, '43, J.olil.n L. Clowe, '44, and Stephen W. Ens- lw, '45. They were selected by the Terrace Council at the request of the Schenectady Alumni Associa- tion. Principal speakers at the meet- ing will include Oswa:ld D. Heck, '24, Spealwr of the New York State Assembly, Stephen B. Story, '14, Comptroller of the State of New Hampshire, and President Fox. In making h1s announcement, Mr. Hequembourg said that this will be the first meeting of the year for the Schenectady alumni group. Nevertheless, all of the alumni who are returning for the week-end will be cordially in vi ted. The banquet will begin at 6:30 p. m. and will cost two dollars. Chairman of the Board WALTER.. C.f3AI(ER.. Is one of many alwnni expect- ed back on campus this week-end. Graduated with the Class of 1915, Mr. Baker's long period of serv- ice to his college was climaxed last JWle with his election as Chairman of the Board of Trus- tees. Last year .Saker resigned ·his post as Cilairmau of the Fi- uance Committee of the GraduatE> Council, during which time he was personally responsible for the substantial increase in alunmi oontiibutious. · Council To Elect Membe~rs-A toalarge Will Also Make Plans To Continue Work Started By Group Last Year I Presided over by Chairtnah Wal- ter C. Baker, the Board of Trustees of Union College n~et this after- noon >1.t 2 p.m. in the President's Office. Foll0wing aeual procedure, the trustees heat·d the reports of committees and then fell to a di,·- cussicn cf the coHege problems. Tonig·:1t at six, the Graduate Council wiH dine in Hale House and follow its dinner with a bus- iness meeting in the Faculty Lounge. At 6:30 the Schenectady 'Co~mty Alumni Association will as- semble at the Mohawk Golf Club. The Graduate Council will bring . up to date the work begun last spring, hear reports and make plans for the coming year. The Executive Committee of the coun- dl will elect and install officers for the coming year as well as elect five members-at-large to the Ex- ecutive Committee and four mem- .bers-at-large to the Graduate ·Council for five year terms. Last year the Graduate Council allocated approximately $2,400 of its alumni gift fund, spending the money by giving $1,000 to its Grad- uate Council Scholarship Fund; $552.92 to the Student Loan Fund; $400 to the Alumni Monthly; $42 for Alumni Medals and $356.78 to the Athletic Field Fund. ---0---- of un ergra ua . · · h 11 A. member of pnsed hrm was t c sma response ~~e ~~~gi~a~J?;:,:rac: ~ouncil, I fol- from men who had received schol- lowed its careet· with special inter- arships or had been helped by loan GOOD SHOES Sinee 1893 So. as I begin this series of col- umns on \being an alumnus,\ which the editors of The Goncor- diensis have asked me to write monthly, I should Uke to know what you undergraduates think are the reasons which make a man care enough about his college to do something in it,; behalf through the vears after graduation. What do y'ou think Union has done to deserve your su.pport as an alum- nus? What kind of man must one be to become a good alumnus? Ob- viously, there is much value to the College in having a Joyal alumni body, but is such loyalty of value to the men who possess it? In brief, what are your thoughts about yourself as an alumnus? This is not an idle inquiry, for the an- swer is of the highest importance to the future of the independent college. Write me about this; or better still, stop in at the Graduate Council office and talk to me about it. Outing Club Says Monadnock Trip Weekend Is Tremendous Success Wittner Addresses Alumni Groups Pleasant Valley Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products X-RAY FITTING 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 PATTON & HALL ~========~~-==-=-=-=-=--~-~~~~-==~------~24~5~S~T~A~T~E~'~S~T·.------- ------ -- -~ 11 •• and so there was light.'• From desk lamps to chandeliers ... from wiring your house to fixing a plug .. , we're experts. So call us up, or drop down to the store. M .. GOLD&SON 619 State St. Phone 3-2139 r------------------------------------------------. I I 0 0 I I I I ! A Part of Union ! I I I 0 I Serving Union : I I I I I I : ! ! So alumni and students drop in : I I I I l and browse around a while. : I t I I I I t • I I I I I I I ----------- I I I I I t I : ! I Union College Book Store I I : t NORTH WING-UNION COLLEGE 1 I t I I I I I I j Banners Felt Goods I I I I Jewelry College Stationery i I I I I ~------------------------------------------------· ---o--- PLEDGE-INITIATION NOTICE The Delta Upsilon Fratemity an- nounces the pledging of Armand Versaci, '45, of Schenectady. Delta Upsilon, at a special ini- tiation last Thursday night, initi- ated Robert W. Fraughton, '42, of Malone, and Wladyslaw Sokolow- ski, '44, of New York City. ALUMNI! By ANDREW COMREY The I. 0. C. A. outing at Monad- neck State Park, New Hampshire, this weekend was a tremendous success, despite Saturday's incle- ment weather. Union men who braved the elements for the week- end of fun were: Bud Dodge '45, of Sigma Phi; Dick Raymond '45, Robert Breiling '44, Dave Shirley '44, and Andy Comrey '44, all of Alpha Delta Phi. The Uni.on delegation's biggest mistake was that of leaving the eating utensils at the Alpha Delt house, which necessitated our eat- ing with our fingers. That was no particular hardship, however. for then there were not dishes to be washed. After finishing supper, everyone left the site. a Boy Scout camp, for the Grange Hall in East Jaf- STUDENTS! GUESTS! Dine At •THE HOME OF UNION MEN .. HALE HOUSE frey, where the square dance was to be held. Three of the campers were drafted for their musical tal- ents and the dance began. Dick Raymond was the only member of our delegation who could square dance, but we all joined in any- way. Our confusion was augment- ed by the fact that we could not hear the caller clearly. Shouts of \ \swing your own/' \now corner\ meant nothing to us, so we just imitated those who seemed to know the score. An outing club barn dance pre- sents quite a different picture from the ordinary ball room af- fair, as you might expect. Girls and boys alike come dressed in dunga- rees and lumber-jack shirts. In- stead of cokes, milk and cookies are served. The girls appear to be more rugged, in an attractive sort of way, and the boys seem a little less haggard than most college men, f.or some 1 eason which we were unable to ascertain. Dy sunrise, almost everyone was up, taking down tents. cooking breakfa£-t for the camp, or just watching others work and adding 'l bit of advice here and there. Aft- er a plentiful breakfast of catmeal, toast, hash, coffee, and fruit, we began the climb up Mount Monad- nock, elevation at 3,100 feet. Most of us would have placed the ele· vaticn nearer 31,000 feGt after the climb, but the view made our ef- forts worth wh'l3. From this peak, the Atlantic ocean may be seen on a clear day, but Sunday was too hazy for such distant vision. After a short lunch, flavored with a flat tire, we left for home, each thoroughly convinced that life is more fun without all the lux- uries of civilization. Will Talk on Athletic: Life of College During His Ten Years Here Professor J. Harold Wittner, Di- rector of athletics, will present a story of the athletic life of the col- lege during his ten years in the athletic department here at four alumni association meetings to be held in his honor next week. Professor Wittner will speak at Rochester on October 27, Buffalo on October 28, .Cleveland on Octo- ber 29 and Chicago on October 30. In outlining his plans for the trip. Mr. Wittner explained that the idea for the tour had origi- nated when the Cleveland alumni group had written to Dr. Charles N. Waldron, Secretary of the col- lege, asking that he be sent there to address a meeting. When plans were being made for the tr·ip, President Fox suggested that he include appearances at Rochester and Buffalo on his itinerary. The trip to Chicago was added when thG alumni there heard of his plan to go to the other three cities. The athletic director explained that he had a number of friends in all four cities among alumni who had attended Union about the same time he did. Although the majority of speak- ers who represent the college at alumni gatherings confine them- selves to a description of the aca- demic status of the col!ege, Mr. Wittner said that he would em- phasize the developments i.1 the athletic department. He said that his tal::s wou!d be brief, in the expectation that most of his time would be spent in answering ques- tions on a wide variety of ~ub­ jects. , I I T gan en Alb gun sen cho bet' Meo ous F spo ent Uni ball fall clisl and the the Foe lea! gan T diS] rat1 gan but had an beg pen the the nitt the altc I1 hac ref• Uni 4, 1 in gar II eve ule pla Col ton as We sm: for pra inf: inj1 :E tho 190 kill son leg in· fic1 the spi boc JaJ ret ord ing the spc 'ii hin P. no, Ueo ge' 193 big in 1 All onE in div tad eig ( wa Pr1 fro De ~II - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ·- - - 51

aJ:qt C!t11tt.tnrX.ttU!1tlt FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 \ Footba II Contest\ Delta Ups i I on Win . · , Fall Track Meet If you can p1ck the score of every game in this week's football con- Having settled the Phi Gam ineligi· test correctly, you'll receive $80. bility squabble by ruling Tom If you merely pick more winners Flynn out of the fall track meet, than anyone else, you'll receive two the intramural board has an- frPe tickets to Proctor's. nouuced the final and complete Entry deadline is 10 o'clock to- score of the event. monow morning. . Much to their delight, the D. U.'s Alabama ... · · · GeOI'gia. · · · · · · · were awarded first place and the Army .. · · · · · · · · Columbm· · · · · · 100 points which we·nt with H. Psi Bowdom ... · · · Colby · · · · · · · · · Up,;Hon took secon0 and Alpha Cornell · · · · · · · ColgatP · · · · · · · Delta Phi third. Summary foU.ows: Brown . . . . . . . . LafayettP .... . Dartmouth . . . . Rochestt>r .... . Pts. Hamilton . . . . . Vall' ......... . Rcor<'d Total Foi'dham . . . . . T. C. U ....... . Minnesota . . . . Michigan .... . N'wt>stt>rn . . . . . Ohio Statt> , .. . Ort>gon . . . .. . . U. C. L.A .... . Princf\ton . . . . . Vanderbilt ... . Rice . . . . . . . . . . Texas ........ . Washingtoot . . . Stanford .•.... Harvai'd . . . . . . Navy . . . . . ... Nanw Address ........................ . PAINT AND WALL PAPER Delta Upsilon ......... 60. Psi Upsilon ............ 35. Alpha Delta Phi ....... 16. Delta Chi .............. 14. Phi Gamma Delta .... 9. Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . 6. Phi Sigma Kappa ...... 6. Beta Theta Phi . . . . . . . . 4·. Sigma Phi ............. 4. Alpha Phi Delta ....... 3. Sigma Chi ............. 3. Chi Psi ................ 1. Delta Phi . . . . . . . . . . . . . .000 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . . . . .000 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . .000 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . . . .000 Kappa Nu ............. H. South College .......... 8. 100. 75. 56. 54. 49. 46. 46. 44. 44. 43. 43. 41. 40. 40. 40. 40. 11. 8. CARLSON Sanitary Barber Shop I Cor. STATE and BARRETT STOP AT THE ESSO SIGN <Next to Union Inn) HAIRCUTS SHAVES - MASSAGES Cor. VANVRANKEN and NOTT ST. We're glad to serve Union men again{ Winterize your car early-it pays! Complete Lubrication Auto Accessories W. & G. SCHUHL Battery Service Tires SPORTS 6 Football ·selections By Experts I . Union- R. P. I. Frosb Eleven~s L-.-T-h-e-,-~-~-e-g_e_tt_t_n_g_t_o_u_g_h_e_r_~-m-u-~-d--fu-e_a_t_hl_e_ti_c_d_e_~_a_rt_m_m_t_b_r_a-~--t-r_u_s-~-~--t-o-a-~---a-s_t_h_e_y--~-~-e~d·(1a·s·h Tom·orrOW their brows over this weelt's orop of games lined up by Jacltpot fur their weelt-to-weelt guessing bee. ' : ' . · · · ·; . AI Ciampa and Hal Wittner are leading wifu 37 winners in 48 games, while Art Lawrence has 35 win- Game Starts at Noon With Yearling Rivals Set to Shoot Works ·ners and Bill Ketz trails with 34. And the guesses: Hal Wittner Alabama-Georgia ................. Alabama AI•my-Columbia ................... AI'my Bowdoin-Colby .................... Bowdoin Cornell-Colgate ................... Colgate Brown-Lafayette .................. Brown Hamilton~Rochester ............... Rochester Da1•tmouth- Yale .................. Dartmouth Fordham-T. C. U •................. Fordham Minnesota-Michigan ............... ~nesota Ohio State-Northwestern ......... Northwestern Oregon-U. C. L. A. . ............... Oregon Princeton-Vanderbilt .............. Vanderbilt Texas-Rice ........................ Texas Washington-Stanford .............. Washington Harvard-Navy .................... Navy Art Lawrence Alabama Army Colby Colgate Bt•own :Rochester Dartmouth Fordhnm Minnesota Northwestern Oregon Vanderbilt Texas wasllington Navy Bill Ketz Georgia Army Bowdoin Cornell Brown Rochester Yale Fordham Minnesota Northwestern Oregon Vanderbilt Texas Wasllington Navy AI Ciampa Alabama Columbia Colby Colgate Bro\vn Rochester Dartmouth Fordham Minnesota. Ohio State Oregon Vanderbilt Texas Stanford Navy sun seeking their i'nitial victory, · the freshman footballers will meet the R. P. I. Frosh tomorrow on ' Alexander Field at 12:00 noon. · Since succumbiug to the Middle- . bury freshma:n aggregation, the · Garnet squll!d has been pointing f.or · the traditional battle with the Cherry and White yearlings from . Troy. In thei·r first appearance before a Union audience, the frosh wiJil · present a slightly revised Hne-up. Cub Runners Risk Record Against R. P. I. Garnet Harriers Given Annual Clash With In Chance Union Several changes have been made In the backtield and the squad has been speeded up. Versati:lity is the watchword as speedy, tricky plays have reelea from the repertoi·re ef Coach Ail Ciampa. Though they found the going somewhat tougher than they ex- pectea, the freshman ct·oss-country- men beat Delhi State School, 25-30, on the Union course Wednesday. It was the yearlings' second victory in as many starts. Tomorrow afternoon they'll face their toughest competition yet in the touted R. P. I. freshman squad. Headed by Vernon Heartley, a for- mer Nott Terrace High star, the R. P. I. team is good, as usual. Union's freshmen may or may not suffer ft·om having Wednes- day's meet so close. The run may have put them in just the right sort of trim for the R. P. I. race. Jim Quinlan led the pack hDme Wednesday. His time of 16:03 1 h for the three-mile course was the best turned in by a Union freshman in a meet in four years. It was his second first in as many meets. He was in the first five all the way and won with a terrific drive which pushed him ahead of two de- termined Delhi runners, who had stuck with him up to the last quar- ter mile. The Delhi men, Jenks and Ket- cham, finished second. Ken White of Uni.on was third and George Middlemiss, another Union man was f.ifth. Cook of Delhi was sixth, followed by Bill Eger, Chuck Gade and Warren Kamm of the Garnet squad. SHckmen Look Good In Fall Practice \They a1•e shaping Up very well,\ announced Coach Frea Wyat·t as he watched a group of his lacrosse candidates .drilling yesterday aft- ernoon on Library field. 'I'hirty men are out for the var- sity team. They include James Bouck, Ray Aldrich, Charles and J.ohn Clowe, Bruce May, Bob No- thacker, Ronnie Macomber, Charles Thurston, George Bedell, Bill East- erly, Len Benjamin, Bob Haigh, Bob Horstman, Paul <Scoop) Dwy- er, George Baskous, Pat Knopf, Joe Furlong, Ned Reilly; Fred Wi- koff, George Weed, Bob Panoff, Van Thomson, Frank England, Cap- tain Bob Newton, Lew Timpson, Jim Gilmore, \Red\ Jessen, Chal'les Gouled, Vince Ryan, Tom Cullen, Andy Comrey, \Dap\ W.ill, Ray Hickox, and Gladden Houck. Several varsity football players are expected to join the· squad in indoor drills this winter. ·They in- clude Howard Parsons, Karl Klar- man, Bruno Schulze, Ed Enstice, Bob Davis, Bob Baker and Dick Hoffman. Bob Shepard, .gurrently on the cr.oss-ceuntry team, is also expected out. Sixteen candidates are out for freshman lacrosse. They include five men with previous experience in the sport, one of whom cap- tained his prep school team. ~----------------------~ R. P. I. Varsity Squad Depleted by Injuries Squad Strengthened In a personal interview, Champ said that the squad has ·been strengthenea by the addition of With a bare o1;1tside chance of several new men. Bob Bartlett, a victory, the varsity cross-countly Fecent quarterback acquisition is team engages R. P. I. on the Alex• counted upon to add speed. The ander course tomorrow afternoon team is now in the cendition which during the varsity football game.· .jt should have been in several Neither R. P. I., nor Union has· weeks ago. scored a cross-country victory in An interesting note is that ap- two meets this year. proximately 25 out of 30 candidates R. P. I. has beaten the Union are science students. Because of runners four years in a row and 'labs and afternoon classes, t•he despite the fact that the Garnet team has lost many precious hours team hasn't shown a darned thing of practice. Regardless of the ha·n- in its meets with Vermont and Mid- dicaps, the team feels that it will dlebury, it does have a hope to win. make a creditable showing against R. P. I. has apparently come up R. P. r. and in any case leave the with its poorest club since Bill Engineers feeling that they have Eddy took over the coaching reins. been in a contest. Times turned in by the Union The line-up will proli>ably be Ed team in a 4.7 mile trial Monday Bates and \Bud\ Taylor, ends; Hal were the best Bill Ketz has gotten F.ox and Don Carstens, tackles; out of any set of Union runners in Max Slee and Chet Marvin, guards; two years. This might be cause for Bob Mendelsohn or John Ferd at optimism were it not for the fact center; Reggie Carrol, John Short, that the Dutchmen never run half Bill Tunstall, and Bob Lange, as wen in a meet as they do in backs. practice. They don't seem to have ----0--- the psychological ability to run under pressure. :Betas Take Lead In Footba II Contest Rain yesterday necessitated the postponement of the second half of the intramural football field meet to next Thursday. No point score has been totaled as yet, as all events are still open. 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 I I I I R. P. I. entertained hopes of hav- ing its usual good season in the hill and dale sport this :;eason. When the season started, Bill Eddy had three lettermen availa:ble. Now he has none. His captain and No. 1 runner, George Troup, is definitely out with a bad leg, according to R. P. I. press bulletins, as is Fred Davis, No. 2 man. A third letter- man and another promising runner. have found it impossible to con- tinue running. Thus R. P. I. will pin its hopes on sophomores to beat the Union team, which includes Charley Snell, Bob Shepherd, Dick Conly, Jules Vigllemo, Herb Adams, Bob Reed. Bob Heywood and Harding Brown. Beta Theta Pi seems about as close as anyone to being ahead in the meet. It scored a first, tied for another first, took a second, a third, a fourth, and a fifth ·in first- day competition. Leaders in Wed- nesday's events were: 00 M 0'- 1926 You're All Welcome at the lllllllllllllllllllll VAN CURLER TAP ROOM 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 N o- 0 N o- 00 I Hear I I I I Sonny Dunham's l I t 1 Orchestra 1 I ~ I on Bluebird Records l I I I Play l I I I I 1 • Mernories of You 1 1 1 lhH '• • My Foo is eart I I l and others l I at ~ I I ! Cluett & Sons : 1508 State Above Clinton l l---------------------~J Despite their fine times of Mon- day, when five of them did the 4.7 mile course in better than 29:40, the Garnet harriers are not as confi- dent as they might be in view of R. P. I.'s situation. They claim to have ·bad legs and seem to have had the misfortune to go bad all at once for the R. P. I. meet. ---,0--- First call fDr candidates for this year's varsity swimming team has been issued by Captain Harold Hendrickson, '42. All those inter- ested have been invited to attend the first meeting Wednesday night, October 29, at 7 o'clock in the tr.o- phy room of the gymnasium. Passing for distance-Stan Davis, Alpha Delta Phi, 109 yards; Ham- ilton, Sigma Chi, 98 yards; Ed Allen, Delta Upsilon, 96% yards; Joe Mudge, Beta Theta Pi, 921,{, yards; Van Duzee, Beta Theta Pi, 81% yards. Kicking for accuracy-(Figures indicate number of yards from per- fection)-Porter Stiles, Kappa Al- pha, 16 yards; Egglefield, Phi Del- ta Theta, 23 yards; Allen, Delta Upsilon, 24 yards; Larry Feldman, Kappa Nu, 24 yards. and Young, Phi Gamma Delta, 28 yards. Place-kicking for distance-Ned Reilly, Beta Theta Pi, 95 yards; Marv Epstein, Phi Sigma Delta, 95 yards: Mudge,. Beta Theta Pi, 87 yards; Bob Nothacker, Delta Phi, ••••••1111111111111111•1111111111111•111•11allll': 85 yards, and Bob Gillie, Phi Gam- = • rna Delta, 84 yards. I • I\icking field goals--Lew Timp- = KELL y•s : son, Kappa Alpha, 4: Roy Web- • • ster, Delta Phi, 4; J. F. Ryan, Phi • • Delta T,heta, 4; Reilly, Beta Theta : Makers of Fine Clothes : Pi, 4; Earl Goodrich, Beta Theta • • Pi, 3; Jones, Kappa Sigma, 3; Froe- • • lich, Kappa Nu, 3; and Sherry • • •. In campus fashions, most fellows would rather be \right\ •. Greiner, Kappa Sigma, 3. Punting for distance-Schaefer, : than class president. Be sure your appearance clicks the first : Psi Upsilon,. 91 yards; Wallace Mac • • Millan, Phi Gamma Delta, 87 • time. Don't risk it. Make sure by coming to the KELLY FAC- • yards; Joe Grace, Psi Upsilon, 87 : TORY. We've got the authentic stuff. : yards and Allen, Delta Upsilon, 87 • : yards. • • I ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ : • SUITS • SPORT JACKETS :II • • : • T'COATS • SLACKS : • • : • O'COATS • REVERSIBLES : : • RAINCOATS : • • • • : UNION men will be reimbursed for their traveling expenses : • • : to the Kelly Factory : • • • • • • Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • • • LO 5 KELLY CLOTHES. Inc. 5 0: : 621 RIVER ST. TROY, N.Y. =· OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction • - . . : Telephone T417 : · • • .q- : 2 Blocks North of Hoosick St. Every Day 9 to 6:30 E - ·. . ' ~ . - ':-. ............................................... ~ 598 B'way-For Better Values 7 I R. v \] UN bod \Tb neVI per· yes H trul we' wH: Th! m01 tD the R ber not and poil Dl'E tho Nel son mo1 the gar. .A wa~ tal the tha que thi! rep we1 ces ten can are to tha pov a < aga c na bal ele' twi ter. hal vin ab! fou ber yea E E:ay the RJ. £'n( wei b:J) F pla fou wil dor tau pre Ed Bo' Kil Un as mo prE the LeE ba< pre I enc an< arP it's lop ag< thr ag! I on R. cor ha• Br1 Cli Bil in

on die- the f·Ol' the wii'l -up. has the of of a is The era! ap- ates of t•he will the Ed Hal at nge, the half as as din for a avis, Ed 92 1 h Pi, per- A!- Del- 87 Phi, Phi .. Mac 87 87 87 y 7 SPORTS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 --~-,-~·---~------------------------ Headlines Make .Engineers Favorites-But Let's Wait R. P. t, 12-0 Victor Last Vea·r, Wants To Make It Two In A Row This Year It's Gonna Be Different! Standings Football Touch Cherry and Whiters .~ ====!.I LEAGUE A Have Never Defeated Worried Duke? Urn ion Twice Runni.ng Te~m- W Delta Upsilen ............... 5 L TPam- 1 Kappa Nu .............. . W L 5 1 Beta Theta Pi .. , . . . . . . . . . 5 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 Kappa Sigma ........... . 5 1 By ;JACK PEARSON Delta Chi ................. 3 2 Theta Delta Chi ........ . 3 Phi Sigma Kappa ...... . 5 1 3 3 \R :P. I. FAVORED TO BEAT UNION\-that's the headline some-' body l')tuck on the sperts page of i \The Rensselaer :Polytechnic,\ the newspa.per .over in the lair of the perennial \Fighting Engineers\ · yesterday. It wouldn't pay to argue the truth of this statement. In fact,· we'H have to agree with it. Union wHJ be the underdog tomorrow. That's what'll make it so much more fun when the Garnet cruises· to another victory. . . it's 31st in' the 55-year-old series. R. P. L will be favoi'ed. The cali-, ber of its opposition has been a notch or so higher than Union's ha·s Last year when R. P. I. applied the whitewash, 12-IO, at TI·oy, the photographer snap.ped the definitely unorthodox play above. The gent with the ball is none other than Bob B-aker, Union's cen- ~r. He doesn't make a habit of jack-rabbiting down the field in swivPl-hipped ecstasy, but there he is. Must have intercepted a pass. Courageous Concordy Indolent ldolers To Challenges Do Battle and you can't belittle those 21 Apparently mugged whi:t• wor- G:~zing around for· more worlds<®-------~-- points the Engineers scored against rying over a .pending substitut:on. t~ cen~u;r. tht;, Co;:wordy h.as Thickman and the like . Dr:exel in their opener. Of ceurse,, Walter J. (Duke) Nelson, R. P. prckcd T11e Idol as l·ts next v1c- 1 d' J k t? . even in- Sigma Phi ................ 1 Delta Phi .................. 1 Neutrals .................... 1 .. .. LEAGUE B Team- \\' Phi Gamma Delta ......... 6 Chi Psi .................... 5 Sigma Chi ................ 4 Phi Delta Theta . . . . . . . . . . 2 Phi Sigma Delta ........... 2 Kappa Alpha . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Call Ball and Ball Will Call 4 Alpha Phi Delta 4 North College .......... . 5 Seuth College ---0---- 2 1 0 L 0 INTERCLASS FOOTBALL STANDINGS 1 '\\\Class- 'li\' 2 Juniors .................. 3 4 Seniors ............ , . . . . . . 2 4 Sophomoi!eo.; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 6 Freshmen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o PHONE 6-3456 4 5 6 I, 0 1 2 3 those were the on\y peints \Duke\ I.'s popular head football coach, tim. Thus the challenge is hereby c u mg ac po · ~~n~~n~\~~ed~s~ ~~~ag~tWh~b~~~ prolli~d~~.K~pf=d~-~~ii~~~~~~iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ son, but they are just 14 points neers ·bad an off-day last Satur- sociates to play a touch foot baH - ------ more than Uni·on has scored. And day, he scouted the Union-Ver- game on Library field some time the Dutchmen have played four mont game. After the game, within the next week, the winner games to three for R. P. I. which Union won, he sa.id~\I'm to meet the Faculty Women for a All al.ong, even when the team -awful glad they did. Nothing trophy. wail at the very bottom of the men- would suit me better. I'm really For months the Goncordy has tal cycle early last week, prior to glad. That'll do 'em a lot of good.\ held its fire on its literary co!- the Vermont victery, it was felt First an R. P. I man, then a league, awaiting just suoh an op- that Union would rise up to con- Dutchman, that's Duke. He was pottunity as now presents itself . quer R. P. I. Even R. P. I. senses Union's line coach bE-fore he went Now it feels the time has come to this, as one can gather from press to R. P. I. definitely assert its s1:1premacy. reports emanating from Troy this Casting about for recruits, the week. 'The Cherry and White for- T rol\a n El·eve n Concordy finds itself well ferti- ces and their 900--odd <no slam in- fied, but i>~ slightly worried about tended) backet·s who'll invade the Fears o~.~tchmell\\ the situation \The leo!\ may find campus tomorrow <if not sooner) \\\ i 1 itself in as it approaches the \big aJe afraid. They don't know what game.\ to expect from Union. They know '!'ROY, N. Y., Oct. 24.-Satur- K day's R. P. I.-Unt·on game bt'ds nopf and Law that the Dutchmen are a potential I powerhouse. as was borne out to fair to be cnc of the rncst bitterly Besides Captain Knopf and Miss a certain extent in the last half feught battles in the long history Law, \The Idol\ lineup appears against Vermont. of footb::~l! between the two col- non-existent. \Bud\ Gt een, a valu- Captain Bob Baker and his leges. able asset, is on the varsity and r:1ates realize that no R. P. I. foot- Several reasons, in addition to wouldn't be eligible. However, ball team has ever beaten a Union the intense rivalry that is always thet e are some possibilities in the eleven two years in a row ... or present, create a peculiar situation following group: Phil Landry, Joe twice in five years for that mat- this year. One of the most force- Furlong, \Mac\ Yuen, Will Taylor, ter. . . and they'll be throwing ful· of these is that R. P. I. want~ Charlie Thurston, Avery Beer, and harder blocks, tackling more con- to win not only to be victorious Doctors Langsam and Bronner. vincingly and running with more Jver its old foe but because a vic- Per·haps Wendell Will'kie, F.D.R., abandon than they have in the:r 'o:y would even up its perform- and Fiorello LaGuardia might find four previous games. They remem- ance to date-that is, give two wins it convenient t-:> repay past cour-, ber that R. P. I. won, 12-0. last •nd two losses, or a percentage of tesies by lining up with tD.e Idols. I year 50(;. If th9.t can be accomplished, Besides this crew, who have them B9.l~er will start at center. He the Engineers feel fairly confident bums got which can lick the Con- t oays he's going to be in there at of ending the season wlth a credit- cordy crew which includes EUCh the finis.h too and Union must hope able showing. luminaries as \Bul:et Bob\ Hayner, I ,. J. His understudies, Frank Jones Coach Nelson is caut!oning hi,· \Big Ig\ Feigenbaum, \Slrmmin' 2 nd Ken Sharpe, have per formed men not to go over to Schenectody 1 . Sol\ Blechman, \Hammering Har- well, but this year \Bake\ is the with any over-confidence they vey\ Fishbone, Granger ! Golden- b:.y who packs the spark. might base on the fact that Un!.on boy) Tripp, \Jumping Jimmy\ j Four other guys who have been has scored only one touchdown in I Perlstein, Tom O'Connor, \Slinki~g playing with Captain Baker for four games. Cy\ Portnoy, 1..;orm the Fox, i:Jy ~i~r b~e~:~~~i~~ t~:r:!n~~~f~~~; ;~zf=-~~:_ -~-•~::: -~.....,.~-- -~•~:::- .-::~-:•~ --~-=-,;.: don't find the right address in . · •• ·'• · . ,.,_~, touchdown territory, there'll be a ~~ ~~~·~!'7.3ft7.· ;·~~~2-~~:&.~~}~'1 ~) Ch k ~~.-~ .. ~~ The 1 • pretty good reason for it. un Y Ed Enstice will start at fullback r,~' ~ ~ Bob <Red, Boss, or what have you1 \~~ \B.Ig Three II ~ Killian and Sherry Hillick will be ,,, )I; Union's halfbacks and if they're ~~1, as hot as they were against Ver- \,.J • ~~~~~,; mont, R. P. I. will get burned ~~~~ pretty badly tomm·row. Clearing In ~ the path, as of yore, will be ~ig ~. ~. 1'1, Lee (Moose) Sherman, whose shtft , , back to quar·terback last week ~~ College Coats ~ 1 proved such a tonic. i ~ In the line will be Bob Davis, ~ ';I end. Gordie Semerad, tackle, Baker J ~ and Stew Goldblatt, guard, who : ,\ o C t ~~~~~ alP seniors. They have known what ~l;' over s it's m,e to beat R. P. I, They wal- ~ • Tweeds ~~ loped the Engineers, 26-6, two years ~ : ago and they beat 'em as freshmen ?~I l, .. ~.· three years back. They'lJ. do it i Cll Cavalry Twill again tomorrow or know why not. 1; 1 .• 1 It's the juniors and sophomores ~~~ 1' on the teain who have never seen j 1 ; R. P. I. beaten. They couldn't ac- ~/! 'i! complish it as freshmen and they 111 • d 't S \HI • \:11,! haven't seen the varsrty o I . o ~. l, \ Bruno Schulze, sophomore guard; Cliff Platt, sophomore end; and 0~ ~.· i Bill Hill, sophomore tackle, will be i '- in there plugging. ~ We have them all - three- ~'; ii,~~ quarter and full length, zip- ~ A NEW HIT!! TOMMY DORSEY'S The Skunk Son9 Parts I and 2 Victor-No. 27621 Also a Complete Line of Sonny Dunham Records CASSE.DY 420 State near Proctors I per linings, reversibles - so \··~. r~ )~~~ drop in, your always wei- l~·~~~,· ~~ come, and don't forget \' 1'1 Nov. 7 - Gridiron Ball. Vi nick' ~ 514 STATE ST. ~~.::::CWi\''- --~ ... ':' MEN'S SHOP s RAH! RAH! RAH! THRE·E CHEE·RS FOR s·EARS They Have the Clothes For \Joe College\ Use Sear's Catalog Order Service -· Complete Outfits for College Wear \FASHION TOWER\ NECKWEAR Just the Neckwear for the College Man! 69c Snappy Suspenders! a 11 d pla~tk rayon \\t•b- bing. li<t~ p;tt'tt 1\'11·:-'. !It'\\\\ 49c Terry Knit SLACK 25c SOCKS Ass't Colors Smart new styles in neckwear! New color blends, new patterns, superior quality! Fine rayons, spun rayons, crease-resistant fabrics. 3 for $1.95 Sports Beautifully hand tailored! ~~~---~================~L:EA~T~H~E.RJACKET TRU-POINT ~Rayon DRESS Men's Knitted and Capskin Gloves Lined SHIRTS 100%- heavy, lt>nuinP ,pig- 0 Zipper warm wo.ol! .{ r n 1 11 P cl New, solid 'Uf1t'L\ }( i :)J ! Front • New Patterns co I or s or ~ 1 i p-o 11 or lUt'ton ~ t••p 8 Sanforized Shrunk ' fl'].llcy pat- t~·lt>. hi 11~1- only • Full Cut ·terns. As- ural. gn·~·. sorted I\ OW 11, or 0 Starchless Collars l}(lr,lc ~iZt'~ $7.95 'I:..! tn 1111 :!· $1.49 ea. 79c $1 A Real 3 for $4.39 Value! Newest Styling! Warmth Without Weight .:\'ovPlty ~titc·h. Popn- la.r 'lH ne·rlL A;;;; or t e 1! {' () 1 o r s. Small, med- ium. Iar·ge. $lao \Va.nnth \v1thc1ut weight. tone; all- \,ool ... in popu- lar hro\\ u IH-·a th- et·, nut. gray, dN:'~t­ ~'irmly knit t·lastil' rih Jo-tit1·.h. Pnuhlt.\' p 1 h 0 \\, Tw npcl('lu~,ts. $2.69 USE SEAR'S EASY PAYMENT PLAN -For Purchases of $10.00 or More 166 ERIE BLVD. PHONE 3-1321 SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

., 8 SPORTS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1941 at4t 01ntttllrbttltlit.8 Dutchmen Rene:'w Battle with · Engineers Tom orro~w • The Old ' 1 Bandit' ARTHUR C. LAWRENCE (Union's Head Coach) • REWARD-for walking two blocks from the campus ... the best haircut and the finest service in town. Just stop at- BILL'S BARBER SHOP ;Leads Dutchmen Tomorrow ., . \ .. :~ ;·;.::: ·-:·- .. CAPTAIN ROBERT K. BAKER, '42 R. P. I. Left Far Behind R. P. I. has won only five of the 39 games it has played with Union since the football series began in 1886. Union 118 Not+ Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. has triumphed in 29 games and five have wound up in ties. • Duke of Troy WALTER J. NEJ~SON (R. P. I.'s Head Coach) • NOT JUST YET. BUD. I'M HEADED FOR A SODA AT- JACOB'S PHARMACY A Favorite of Union Men for Years. 575 NOTT ST. In fairness to R. P. I. ... and we can well afford to be ~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mqMcim~ ... h~~dbe~~~~ili~lli~hu~~~~~G~O§IN~G~N~O~R~T~H~?~?~IN~S~A~R~A~T~O~G~A~I~T~'S~~~~ HIXSON'S WHITE HOUSE TAVERN OPENING ABOUT NOV. 15 BAR and ENTERTAINMENT LUNCHEON and DINNER always been a dispute over the score of the first game ever • played between the schools. Union has always claimed that it won that game, played on Nov. 19, 1886, in Albany, by a score of 4-0. R. P. I. main- tains that it won by 6-0. So what are you going to do? Listed below are the scores of all the games in the Union- R. P. I. rivalry, New York State's oldest football relationship: 1 Year 13 I o I I RICHARD J. HIXSON (Union '32) of RIVERWOOD INN Union R.P.I. 1918 ....................... 6 ·'g~~~~~~~-~--~-~-~-~-~-·~~~~~~~~~~11886.' ....... ' ....... ''' ' .. 4 0 1919 ... ' .. ' ' ... ' . . . . . . . . . . . 0 li 1889 ....................... 10 1892 ....................... 4 1892 ............. ' ... ' ..... 20 WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING - ENGRAVING 1893 ......... ' ............. 10 JAY JEWELRY 1894 ......... ' ... ' ......... 37 1895 ................. ' ..... 26 co. 1898 ......... ' ... ' ... ' ..... 22 1899 ....................... 5 1899 ..... ' ................. 6 CORNER STATE and CENTER STRt:ETS 1900 ....................... 5 1901 ................. ' ..... 17 0 1924 ....................... 7 0 1925 ....................... 40 4 1926 ....................... 21 6 1927 ....................... 21 3 0 1928 ........... ' . . . . . . . . . . . 6 14 0 1929 ....................... 7 0 1930 ....................... 0 6 1931 ....................... 21 0 1931 ....................... 7 0 1932 ....................... 13 0 1933 ....................... 0 2 0 0 2 0 16 Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM, ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-8104 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UM ....................... U 0 1.4 ....................... 0 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II - --~--- 19()3 .... 0 •• 0 ••• 0 •••• 0 •••••• 12 11 1935 ... 0 0 0 ••• 0 0 • • • • • 0 0 •••• 21 0 1904 ....................... 21 0 1936 ....................... 6 0 For \Better Milk\ Try Us Oul' Supply Domes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modem Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING'S DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroeck St., Scotia, N. Y. Phone 6-7758 Union's Favorite for Years-and Waiting to Serve You Again BRANDHORST PHARMACY \'ON THE CORNER\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE Prescriptions home-made ice cream Phone 4-6202 1914 ....................... 24 0 1937 ....................... 6 6 1915 ............. ' ... ' ..... 7 0 1938 ....................... 26 13 1916 ..................... ' .45 0 1939 ....................... 26 6 1917 ......... ' ............. 19 3 1940. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 12 Whether '05 or '45 WELCOME ALUMNI to the COLLEGE INN • 1526 Van Vranken Ave. Z Blocks from Campus For the Finest in Seafood Dine at PELOP'S 438 STATE NEAR PROCTOR'S HAVE YOU TASTED . DOBLER P. 0. N. BEER andALE v g it h .s c: d tl a a c b a a c c ... n ~ d l ]1 r

8 SPORTS FRmAY. OCTOBER 24, 1941 m~t OLnttrnr!liruaili Dutchmen Ren.ew Battle with Engineers Tom orro·w • The Old 'Bandit' .\HTHI'R C. LA\\'ItESCE ( l'ninn'• Ht>ad Cm\l'h l t&MM wr A if • REWARD-for walking two blocks from the campus ... the best haircut and the finest service in town. Just stop at- BILL'S BARBER SHOP 118 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. HIXSON'S WHITE HOUSE TAVERN OPENING ABOUT NOV. 15 BAR and ENTERTAINMENT LUNCHEON and DINNER RICHARD J. HIXSON (Union '32) of RIVERWOOD INN WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY c 0. CORNER STATE and CENTER SiREETS Leads Dutchmen Tomorrow ('Al'TAI.S RO&gRT H.. BAKI<~R. '-12 R. P. 1 .. Left Far Behind I~. P. I. has won onlr five of the :39 games it has played with l'nion ~ince the football serie~ began in 1886. Cnion has triumphed in 29 games and fiYe have wound up in ties. • Duke of Troy WALTI•:R ,J. :-a:u;o.s (R. P. I.'s !Wad ('oat'hl • NOT JI1ST YET, BUD, I'M HEADED FOR A SODA AT- JA·cos·s PHARMACY A Favorite of Union Men for Years. 575 NOTT ST. In fairnPss to H. P. I. ... and we can well afford to Le magnanimou~ . . . it should be pointed out that the1·e hasi~=====G=O=f N=G=N=O=R=T=H=??==IN=S=A=R=A=T=O=G=A=I=T=' S===!.llll alwa.\·s been a dispute over the score of tht> first game ever ~ pla~·ed bet ween the schools. l'nion has ahn1~·s claimed that it won that game, played on Xov. 19, 1RR6, in Albany, by a scm·e of t-O. IL P. I. main- tains that it won \,~· 6-0. So what are rou going- to do'? Listed l>elo\\' an• the ~con\s of all tlw games in the ('nion- H. !'. I. l'ivalry, :\'t•w Yol'l-: State's olr!Pst football l'elationship: 1RXG. 1XX!l .. 111!12 .. 1X92 ... . 1!19:~ .. . 1!19-l 11195 ... 1119!1. U\!1!1 .. 1!1fl!) .. HJOO ..... HJ01. l'nion R.i'.l. 1'11!1. .. 10 . .. .... 211 lO .:n 26 22 6 '. 5 n lflUI u lfl2-l .... . II Hl25 ... . -l lfl26 .. 6 lfl27 II lfl2X .... n 1!12!1 . 0 1!1!~0 .. ll 1!l!H ........... . () l!l31 IJ 1!132 ......... . . 6 .. () .... 7 .. .... .to .. ... 21 .. 21 .... 6 .. 7 ...... 0 . . 21 . 7 13 ..17 ............ 0 3 a 2 0 0 2 ll . •. ! Let Us Serve You With the Finest MILK, CREAM, ICE CREAM and Other Dairy Products CLOVERLAND CREAMERY 919 STATE ST. PHONE 6-B I 04 ~::::::~::::::::~~::~--~-~-~-~.~ .. ~=-~-~-~--~-~--~·~~~~~:::~~:. . . 18 .12 () l!J!{~ .. 0 193-l ... ll 1!1~5 ......... . 18 ..... 21 .. .. 6 16 6 0 0 6 For \Better Milk\ Try Us Our Suppl~ ConH·~ from thl' FinPst Hair) Farms I>irl'<'t t~) Our l'lant and l'ro<'PSSPd in Mod<•rn Stainl<\ss ~tN\I I<;quipnwnt YOr'LL LIKE THE FLA\'OR LANSING'S DAIRY Phone> 6-7758 Union's Favorite for Years-and Waiting to Serve You Again BRANDHORST PHARMACY \ON THE CORNER\ UNION ST. and GILLESPIE Prescriptions home-made ice cream Phone 4·6202 1904 .. l!ll-l .. l!ll5 1!116 .. 1!117 ... .21 . .. 2-l 7 .... -15 .l!l 0 l!l!~6 0 1!137 .... 0 l!l!~R . 0 l!l!~9 ... . 3 19-10 ...... . ........... 6 ..... 26 .......... 26 ............ 0 Whether '05 or '45 WELCOME ALUMNI to the COLLEGE INN • 1526 Van Vranken Ave. 2 Blocl's from Campus 13 6 12 For the Finest in Seafood Dine at PELOP'S 438 STATE NEAR PROCTOR'S HAVE YOU TASTED DOBLER P. 0. N. BEER and ALE '-,I it: h; ., d: tl \ :rl '. },, :tl \ ,., ll w d; l . E a:- tl I< h< h: it r; \'. p II ]J tl a p I• ('I ll tl t• 11 ,\ t! \\ \ tl

l I Buy • •• Fred :Your Tickets Early StS Waring See Page 4 The Student Newspaper of Union College Volume LXV. Number 14 SCHENECiADV, N.Y., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1941 Price Sc Philorna~heans I 'Storm of Color', 'Ball Bagatelle' To Feature Meet. Middlebury • Gridiron Ball. Ti(ket Sale Approaches Closing R. P .. L Captives Await Fate In fl rst Debate DCllDlC::e 'Decorration Scheme <$>----- - --- - - - --- ~ Leland Calls Bid Sale Second Deba~e Wii'h ~nch1des Unique Lighting Vassar, Deli-a Phi Effecil', Commi,tfee Says Leads :!ntrramagrais \A Storm of Colon;\ will greet I . . , . dancers at the 1941 Gridiron Ball i ~hddebury College Will funu~h, a~ they l•nter Alumni Gymna~ium tl 't' . th f' t . t ' ' ' · \-• I 1e. eppu~l· Ion zn · e II'S ·m ercu.- 1 on tell· mght uf \'ovember 7, it wa,; 1 legmte debate uf the yea! for the, unnounced to <.lay by Fz euet h:k Union dcbateez:;, it wa..; p.n· \Vi,kcff, '13, chai-rman uf the uanee' nouz~el'd yPsterday by IIarV\Y .T. e >!tHniH•·•·. a~ ht· madP publit· thP FkhbunL', '·!3, tnanagPr of Dt h tt f' 1 pl:t-:1-::; w:!·i, :! h~t\'~· bet·n <.'oit!ph·tt>d' T!w debate will be l:t·ld Fri<~ay, by d<'e-oJat:,,n < •>mmitt<·<· \\'. B1 u•·•·' t•vening a.t 8 p. m. in tht• IInlt- :\by, '·13. b in l'h;ng•· of tlw pl~ln:' House Loungf'. , fo1 UH· drc·ora·tion~. Con1n1t>nting' The fin;t away debate wiU Le <•11 tlw plan. \'\'ikoff ,;aid, \It's tn- 1 held on November 29 when the de-: t ifiC'~\ 1 b:~ter~ will tzavel to Puugl!keep::'ie, '\'·:kuff ,·aid that thP Pla,boratP' tu meet Va:;;;ar. The :;ubject of thi:;. display whieh will go to ma·kl' up debate wi'il be un the ade4uaey of thb tJp,··nation schPmP for thP our Defense Program. ; dan~e will consi~t of spotli~hts Post-War Peace will form the playmg upon three chandehers, general subject of Friday evening's! hung h~g~ _in t~~ gy_mnasium. The; debate with the following as sub- 1 c han?Plzet \· \:'hlCh Will be made _up i R P I M •d • ht R \d I s th d topics: the part we should play at of mzrro:s, Will_ flood the gym w1th I . . . . ,I nlg·, al • S ,1110 ere , the peace parley in light of our t-..venty-elght dtfferent co_lors. . i present a-id to Britain, what consti- No les~ than 300,C:JO 111;11-r?rs w1ll W. Oul.d-be Mara.u.de '.fS Retreat To Troy tutes a \fair peace\ and wh3.t kind b_e used, Ill order to obtam JUSt the of a world we want. Participating r1~ht effect for the dance _floor, in the debate for Union will be Wil- Wllwff announced. The mirrors Band Vocalist Union Finds Brilliant Sting from Gridiron Loss Deferase of Campus Takes <•>~~~~--~~~~- .. ~- _ liam Moore, '42, and William Shar- will be .of all shapes and sizes. key, '43, while Harvev Fishbone · N R fl t' Ray Kellogg S II F I \ 0 e PC lUllS --~~~~~~--------- p e .In g . n a s will chairman the discussion. All I : I students and faculty members are Wikcff, in making his announce- s d N b T h invited to attend the debate. At the ment, explained that one of the tu ents Crasl Despite a crushing defeat on the OVem Sr en+ c-onclusion of the debate the dis- biggest advantages of the \Storm · . n gridiron last Saturday Union's spir- 2 ussion will be opened to the audi- of Colors\ is the fact that it will its we1e not so low as they might The fwal eliminiation of the an- ence who may cross-examine the 1 reflect no light in the dancers eyes, Un1o0n, Skl.d·mOfe have been mainly because of the nual freshman spelling bee will be debaters. no matter where on the dance floor successful pre-game defense of the held at 8 p. m. on November 10 in Five intramural debates are they may be. This is a result of the campus. Both Thursday and Fri- the Old Chapel. Twenty~four fres:'l- scheduled for this evening. They fact that no light whatsoever is Girl Goes to Hospital day nights, groups of freshmen and men, two from each of the twelve are: League 2-Delta Chi vs. North tmned directly on the floor. Rath- After Accident•, Three zealous upper classmen were pa- sections of English 1, will partici- College in Silliman Hall at 7:15 er, all the floodlights will be fo- troling vulnera.ble parts of the cam- pate in the finals. Individual p. m., and Kappa Sigma at Sigma cused on the barrage of mirrors, Others Escape Unhurt pus. Starting with a vicious tight matches, supervised by the in- Chi at 8:15 p. m. In league 3-Sig- which will distort and diffuse it between the freshmen and sopho- structors of the various sections, ma Phi meets Phi Sigma Kappa at sufficiently so as to prevent all Two Union otudents and one mores Thursday evening the week- will determine the most proficient the Kap house at 7:15 p. m. and glare. Skidmore freshman escaped injury end started out very promisingly spellPrs, who will enter the finals. Psi Upsilon at Phi Sigma Delta. Another feature of the \Storm of in an automobile accident which until one freshman was unfortu- The only debate in league 1 pits i <:;olm:s\ is t_he distinctive effect the sent the fourth occupant of the car, nately injured. This, has a sober- Unlike many spelling matches, Kappa Nu against Beta Theta Pi hghtmg w1ll have on the whole a Skidmore freshman, to the hos- ing influence on the crowd and a the contestants are not required to at the Beta house. room. BecausP no white lights are pita! late Saturday night. more or less perfunctory watch was spell words :Which have been mis- Results of the intramural de- used at all, the room will appear The accident occurred when the Irept for a time. ~pelled prevwusly by the preced- l>ates held last Tuesday evening to be in total darkness. Neverthe- brakes of a rental· car driven 'by mg man. Instead, the director of 1 c h ld b · bl All Q i t f T • have J'ust been announced bv H. ess, .,aces s au e recogmza e Bert Miller, '45, faiied to wO!k as uP nr a Jmf' I the bee g·ives the conPct spelling \ Melville Messenger, chairn:an of 1 across _the whole length of the he was rounding the curve to the Early Ft·iuay morning, however, and introduces a new word i~to the Intramural DPbating program gymnasiUm. bridge over the Delaware and Bud- the spirit began to rise again and the match. A _contesta,~t _who mJss- sponsot·ed by the Philomathean The \Storm of Colors\ has al- son Railroad halfway between Ball- a careful watch was being kept on es one word IS not ehmmated; he Society. ready proven its effectiveness and ston and Saratoga. all cars coming through Payne ?'ere~y steps a pace to the rear a!'d Sigma Chi defeated Delta Chi by popularity at a multitude ?f college Miller was driving 40 miles an Gate. No R. P. I. students were IS given one more opportumty a .sco1·e of 60-30 to take over tne da_nces. It was featured wzth Glenn hour in an effort to make the hill hardy enough to brave the act when his turn arrives. If he miss- d · L 1 f k' th M1ller's orchestt a f t t es a second word, the articipant le:a m eague a ter ma: mg e \ · · or some wen Y just before the ·bridge. H~ said he and consequently the watchers had t t' f th Pt h highest score of the program so Pngagements last season. It has 1 applied the brakes at the top got th d 11 • ht f t' mus re zre t·om e rna c . • b th h' hi' ht f d ' a ra er u mg , or a 1me . . . fuJ·. Kappa N u defeated Theta een e zg zg c a-nces at any no reaction and then applied the Things started to pick up when A ~rize of $10.00 is . awarded to I Delta Chi in a closel;y c?n\ested de- n umbN of eastern colleges. 1 emet gency ·brake which also failed certain Union students <one espe- t. ht: wmner cf t~c spellmg bee. The 1 b_ate, 4~-44, . ::m_d Psz Vps~lon c~n- At Other Colleges 'to work To avoid going over the cially answering to the name man who survzves second longest tmued 1ts wmnmg ways w1th a v1c- embankment he ·swerved the car \Ceevee\) started dashing about the zs rewarded with _$5.00; _and $2.50 1 tory over Phi Delta ~he~a, 22-13. In For five years the \Storm of Col- into the framework of the bridge. campus, arousing dormitories ·and goes as a consolatwn pnze to the the final debate, Ph1 S1gma Delta ors\ has graced at least one Dart- The young woman went through fraternities with the cry, \They're third remaining contestant. defeated Alpha Phi Delta, 36-23. mouth dance. Harvard and Yale the windshield. on Alexander Field!\ As it hap- -~----- have each had it for two years. pened there was no one on the And it has proved a success at Cor- Victor Daneski, '42, who was rid- cl G • C [[ d TT t 0 • 11 W'll' A h t B ing in the rear seat was unhu1·t :but f'eld except Union men when about a~nnce rlggs a e V n lrtng ne • 1 lams, m ers, rown, fifty students arrived all ready to 1 t:.- Duke, Tufts, Bowdoin, Rhode Is- his date was slightly cut by flying do battle. When the amateur Paul ffi D B Of 7i T land State, Connecticut State, glass. Miller's girl required a num- Reveres were asked in rather polite 01/0ker .l' or etterment 1-vegroes N01th Carolina State and Ohio ber of stitches but will emerge I ' Stat from the accident unscarred doc- language where they had received , 4--------~- ----~------·--- e_ tors sa the information they stated vaguely By ROBERT Ii. IULLIA...\i 42 ~ The equipment for the \Storm y. that \THEY said it.\ When Clarence Griggs, colored: on the club rocm and incidentally of Colors\ weighs three thousand; Evidence that the hydrolic fluid Into the sma:ll hours of the e:< ecutive secretary of the George' administration expenses. But there pounds and will take a crew of five had leakPd out was reported by morning the freshmen watched and I V\'. Carver Welfare League in Sche-! is not a cent to buy ping-pong ta- men nine hours to install In the many Union students who passed wa.ited, but no institute student I nectady, speaks in daily assembly 1 1 bles, box-ing gloves, basketballs, Alumni Gymnasium. the .!O'Cene of the accident and sup- dared to enter the sanctums of the tomorrow, Union will be intra- wood burning instrument 8 , model \This promises to be the bigge:5t ported Miller's claim when they Union campus. duced to a man who has inspired airplane tools or any one of the thing in the way of decorations said that there was no wet patch or E . I' B t N t F R p I me with his ambition and spirit in other hundred and one odd games that has ever been seen at Union,\ liquid of any sort on the pavement ngme rs, u 0 rom · · · I making better citizens of the col- and craft instruments which teach Wikoff said. inspuite of a broken axle which There was one amusing incident 01 ed folk herea.bouts. a boy teamwork and cooperation -~~-o --~-- 1 would have released the brake as experienced. by this reporter when A gz·aduate of Fisk University in instead of the slickest way to cheat fluid had the brakes been working th1ee young men in a car tried J'.:ashville, Tenn., and Union Theo- in a crap game. St. Lawrence Waterway I properly. to force their way through the lo,e-ical Seminary, Mr. Griggs is put- That's where we Union students Town Meeting Topic The bridge, which is extremely gate, but were quickly apprehended ting the zest of his youth into an can really prove that we don't live narrow, has been the scene of many by the alert freshmen. When asked untiring and virtually unrewarded in ivory towers and have a real Whether _the St. Lawrence water- accidents because of the sharp ap- if they were Union men they au- effort to better the lot of the concern for contemporary problems. way plan IS worthy to be cal:ed a preaches and blind spots on both swered hesitantly that they were. r~egro here. We can show that our new spirit \defense project\ was attacked by sides. Tom J. McGrath, executive director Because of their backwardness the Among his charges are about 30 isn't confined to the campus, for watchers became suspiCIOUS and coloreu boys, aged 8-14, who were the George W. Carver Welfare of the National St. Lawrence Pro- asked them where they resided. ldt leaderless this fall when the League boys' division has been ject Conference in Washington, \Kappa Alpha,\ one of them re- two colored high school lads who placed on the list of charities which D. C., over the Empire State Town plied. Lad been supervising their activi- we may help through the Campus Meeting broadcast by WGY from \Drive to the Kappa Alpha t;es left f.m· college. My connection Chest. Union College Sunday. Maurice P. Davidson, of New House,\ said one quick-thinker. with the Carver League came about A hundred dollars given for York City, a member of the New They drove off and were followed I as a result of this emergency for equipment for these colored boys York State Power Authority, up- by the watch in another car. When I recreation leaders and I am now by Union students through the held the bill now pending before the suspected ones did not come I \Coach\ to one of the cleanest Campus Chest may mean the dif- f h anywhere neal' the K. A. house the playing sandlot grid teams in the , 1 fHence 10 years from now between congress or t e project as \essen- tial to any long-range program for patrol became joyous at the pros- city. ! a boy's continuing his education to pect of a captive or two. The driv- But the football season will be I college to become a better Ame 1 -t- the security of the Nozth American continent.\ er of the suspicious coupe inrto- over in a few weeks and those 30' can, or joining a Bund. The M ~o---- Possible Infirmary DiscMssed by Trustees What ma.y be the first step in the Pventual building of an infirmary at Union was taken up at the meet- ing of the college trustees held on Friday. The trustees appointed a special committee to investigate health problems affecting the col- lege, according to an announce- ment made yesterday by President Fox. CPnHy parked behind the gym- little boys and I will have to make' problem, I think, is that serious. r, Davidson explained that only some 45 miles of rough water be- nasium. When the three alighted 1 a bare room in the old Van Cmler If we can help keep these chi!- tween Massena and Ogdensburg \Among other matters to be con- they wez·e surrounded but allowed 1 . t•uilding on Jay street our head- dren off the streets under super- make it impossible now for fu]; sidered by the committee is the to walk where they would. Peace- quarters. Only .spirit and interest vised play, we'll just be preserving sized ocean going cargo vessels to, possible need .for an infirmary,\ fully they walked to the gate by wiH lwep the group together then; that eagerness to learn and penetrate to the interior of the Dr. Fox said, Alexander field, opened it, much to and I'm seriously afraid that an participate which .fires those 30 American continent t Ch' . . The men appointed on the amazPment ·of the onlookers I utter lack of equipment will break boys now. ThPy are now corn- Duluth Th bl'll b fo Clcago 01 the com- h th . · e · · e ore ongress mittee included W. Howard w o were sure e gate was locked, then· morale. pletely trustworthy and well dis- provides fot' the build' , f d and went out. \After them,\ \:'as I The Carver League is partially ciplined. ~ut their native talents at Massena for the d~~£ 1 ~ p~! p~: Wright, Chairman, Dr. E. Zeh the general cry and four or fzve sponsored by the Schenectady for arts IS now more or less I of cJ·eating a deep pool foz· . Hawkes, Mr. Anthony Hoadley, Dr. (c t . d p 4) c I navzga- G. M. Clowe, and Professnr E. s. c. on mue on age ommunity Chest which pays rent (Continued on Page 4) tion and generating electric energy. Smith. 'Negligible', Warns Of Price Rise Nov. 5 A startling innovation In Grid- iron Ball procedure was announced yPsterday by Frederick Wi'koff, '43, chairman of this year's dance, when plans for the \1941 Ball Ba- gatelle\ were madP public. \BaH Bagatel'le\ is a fao;cinating gan1e uf chance invented by the :acile brains of Chairman Wikoff and Raymond Aldrich, '42. The bas- ic idea b this; each fl'aternity pick~ a g.irl 1 prefembly beautiful) to represPn t it; at one o'clock on the evening of the da,nce, tho eighteen young ladiPs will assem- ble on the bandstand; Sonny Dun- ham, maestro of the Ball, will then pick a fraternity name from his brass derby; and the lucky girl representing that house will re- ceive a gift for each and every young lady weekending in that house; she herself is to receive a fcotball signed by every member· of the squad. Campus Reaction Campus reaction, while it var- ied in intensity, was distinctly fav- orable to \Ball Bagatelle.\ Chair- man Wikoff was delirious: ·\It's a terrific idea!\ Aldrich was more contained, saying modestly: \I think it'll knock 'em dead.\ Jona- than Pearson, sports editor of The Concordiensis, said wistfully: \I sure hope my girl wins that foot- ball.\ George Middlemiss, '45, said reservedly: \It ought to prove in- teresting.\ Stanley Green, '43, in typical Runyonese, stated: \This is one idea that ain't off the cob.\ Granger 'I• o:·p, '43, was heard to say: \I'll be there at one, Noth- ing could keep me away.\ Charles Stiles, '42, publicity chairman for the Ball, was his usual conserva- tive self when he labeled the plan: ~~Good.\ Ben Leland, treasurer of the inter-flaternity council and chair- man of the ticket committee for the inter-fraternity ball, stated yes- terday that the ticket sales were negligible. \I want to wurr. the student body that the1 e are only nine days left to get the ticket& for $3.30. On November 5th the price goes up to $4.40,\ Leland said. Leland al::>o stated that there have been about 380 tickets distributed among the various salesmen. Tic- kets to be valid must be signed on the reverse side by the salesman. Leland urged all students who plan tu attend the ball to buy their tic- kets before the rise in prices. Booth Drawings John Poole, chairman of the booth committee, announced today that the drawings for the booths wi!i take place sometime this week after all the fraternities have paid the price for drawing. The salesmen for tickets are as follows: Bruce May, Alpha Delta Phi; Ralph Matarazzo, Alpha Phi Delta; Den Brockwell, Beta Theta Pi; Fred Wykoff, Chi Psi; Milton Neubauer, Delta Chi; Roy Web- ster, Delta Phi and Ken Lasher .Delta Upsilon. Ray Aldrich, Kappa Alpha; Larry Feldman, Kappa Nu; Howard Van Valkenburg, ~appa Sigma; Donald Abood, Phi Delta Theta; Cliff Bow- djsh, Phi Gamma Delta; Aaron Thal, Phi Sigma Delta; Ben Leland, Phi Sigma Kappa; Charles Stiles Psi Upsilon and Bruce Skidmore, Sigma Chi. John Poole, Sigma Phi; Bill Wel- lPr, Theta Delta Chi. The Neutral representatives are, James Still- man, South College; Jim McNulty, Oldgym Hall; Alex Maxwell, North College and Alex Arony at large. Tickets are also available at the book store and from Mrs. Briggs at Hale House. Committeemen emphasized last night that under no conditions would there be any reduction in the price of tickets after the dance has begun on November 7th. Al- though late comers have, on several occasions in the past, succeeded in getting reduced prices from dance committees who were willing to take almost anything, as long as the official sale was over, this practice will definitely not be in force this year.

'S Buy Fred Your Waring Tickets See Page 4 Early Volume LXV. Number 14 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., TUE~DAV, OCTOBER 28, 1941 Price Sc R. P .. L Captives Await Fate I P'hilomatheans I Meet Middlebury In fi·rst Debate 'Storm of Color', 'BaH Bagatelle' To Feature Gridiron BaH, Ticket Sai·e Approaches Closing Sccornd Debate VJB·h Wl.'lsstu·, Delta Phi i.e¢lds !ntram:.lrGJb :\ltd• 1<·1>11: ~ 1 llt• I !J:HI.~ i l 1111 lt·•....:l:dt '·' lnlt· t•n:un ('tt:l·..: Ill II.• ll,t t ht· I l! I l. ~ ~ : ~ I' ,J. IH J\lJ~('t·d dt hatt·t·J :- .\'t•:-'1 t'l d:!y j 1 .: II \ • • \ Fi 1 lh ll!t· .. 1 -:~ I.::IIJ:t::t•! I! \l''lt lit ll ,lt' •\'t•!. II.~ :It ..... f' ! {tl\1:-t' l.tllll' ~~-·. 'j')H• !11 ~t i \,.J, ·'' l'r.• .t\ ;r ·'· \'.ill I,. itt·Jt; Oil :,u\'1 Illilt•J :!~I \\ )\tl; 1; t• ti1· IJ't t \% _..... \\':II 11 :t \ .. : ttl I )11\1::: I kt•t Jl' I' \' Int·t·t \·a:-. .... ar. T;:,· :-.llb.Jt't t ~~r tLl:-- dt,•kdt· wtll bt· , n tl.t· :~tkqu.,,t·~ •: lllt Pttl:..!.l<:lll Po:-'t-\\'at PP:tl·t· wi!l ft 1 tll t1lt· \-!PIV'I:ll ~lllljt'(\t uf FrJd<l\. t'\\t·ll.n~-::­ [~OJr.:::c Decon:sticm Scheme 111chH.les Uni~Cjl!e Lightil'ig !:Hied·, Commi'i'tee Says . \ ~~· . , 1 :11 c •I ( •. 'I•, 1 - · \1. 1!: ;...: r , .. '·! t!;t ll ('I' I :-- :It' l ltt· 1 ~I 1·1 ( i I ; 1: II t 1 I . J :; t :. ~, t' • \ • ,; t · .\.HI: .II. I;~ Ill f, '!. ; l! II. ' !'i .. ! ·' li \\'. j·_ f .·.•r ... ''•,·t ; I,.,,- lt\ . I II' :q !' ,· .. :1 t:w : :I I·'' I I;.:, t:l' J ' ~ t • 1 • ' I::\'' ( •, •ltlfi!•·t•·• I! - ,. \' WJJ\ ~~~ f,, ....,, ·t11 fiji' tt-·J ,.::dll't.ll• Ill: il< I IIJI 1•·1 tht· ''· ! I (.'II~- I-.!' . : '1•· ol: I~ l: I· pi· ~-Ill : t!i\'!l ( ll'l,)l<l··llt- J ..._ :1\lfl'! Lt:..:ll Ill t<: ~~ ~ II ll:. t ... , 11 I! I R. P.l. Midnight Raid Is Smothered, Would-be Marauders Retreat To Troy ,:,.!J;:tt· with tlli' f~>li\Win~ :1.; -ttl•- topH·~- t'ht• p·nt \\'t' ;\:lolll pi~~ :d t'l''' J)t'll('t• Jl;tl lt·y ill ll'..!llt tJf tllt 1 pt·l•;-.;t•nt aid 111 I-!tttal!l. \•::11T c·•lll ... ti ~·~ut•:' a ··r:ilt JH'H('I' .. :tnd w~1·1t k1nd nf n \\'ol'ld WP want Pall'lt'IJIHttn~ 111 thf' dd>alt• fot l ~n;on \\'1: l ht· \\·u- . t'llll ::\l.11•1·•·. '!:!. an:! \\'tlll:t!ll :-'hat· kt·~. '-t:~. whi:t• I-I·tt \'PY F:s::!JuJa• \\'Ill <'1Ja.tl'l1l:t.n tl1•· tl:~c·u,~I\J:. ,\II .-.ttt~'t\nt~ nnd f;H'ttlt·~· lll''ttlht·ls :tit tn\'ll,t'd to nl'tt·nd tllt· dPhatP .~\t tht· I'<J!II'itl.;tLn of thl' tlt·h:t.lt• lhl' ut'- ·ussi{)n will bt· P(wn,·<l t11 t ht audJ- · :1 ttlti•· !1•·•- \\ltt•·:J \\'ill lu· tn:tdt• up ot' ndll•ll: \\II: tlllttd tllt' ~~Ill \\lth :·\\I' 'll ~- I f ·.:I ! ~··. ,, .... :- t !J;tr: :~Hit.• 11 rn.t 1• tJ ,\'Ill ,,, ll'i·d. ill !!J dt•l ~ I !Ill~ 'til: JU ..... t t Jp· ; t· ·J: f t•fjt Tl f11] f bt• < i:i.tl<'t· flt If II. \\'Il\.\fl :tnnount·t-·d Tl11• nlitt' 11 :-; w:!l h·-· uf :dl ~h:q~t•- :tn·! :-:lZt·S • Union Finds Brillie~11t Sting from Gridiron Loss Defei'lse of CampYs Takes DP:-:pit£· a c•Ju:-:hiPg dPft>:tt on the- ~ridinn1 la:--.1 Satu1dny l .. nion'::s :--pll· its \\'t•r P 1H1t :;o low ns thl'y Jni.L!..ht ha Vt' I>Pt·n tnai uly h('<'a n.st· ( )f t hi' 'tlPC't'S:--fU} Jll'(·'-!.!,ailll' dPfC'llSP (If thP o•:ompu,.;. B~>th Thut·,oday and f.'t i· d:1y nH!llls. !.!,I'CillJl~ r!f f1 f'~hntPII and /Pal()u..; uppPl c·Jn..;~Tlll'n \\'t•r P pn- 1!tdin~ \\tllnt•J .lhlt· p:11 t·.., of tht> canl- 1 n~. ~:.at t.tng with a \'i<'i~>tt• l'i1~llt }H\t\\'t•t·n thl' f1 \~hn.l''ll at•d ~opho­ Ulol·t·s Thlll ~day 1'\'t•tlillL! thl' \\'r•p}{- t•nd ~uu tt·d nut ,-,.r v pt <~nu:-;int.!IY llt.til ()n(' ft\~hnutn \\:t~ unfflrttt· n::t Ply inJU!<'d Thi< '\'\' a '\lwt · 1n:~ infhlt'l1\t• on tht· crowd :t!Hl n tnorp o1.· :t·:-;:-: pt·t·fulH'1 tll ).. \Yat<\ll wa .... l<c•pt for a t inlP. .\11 Qui<'! far a Tinw Eat I~ Ft itl''-\. 111(11 run;..:. h••\Yt·\ t'l, tLP ~Jllllt ht>~.tn tn ll~t·· :t~Hlll and :t cat ~·ful wat.<'h wa:- [Jt·ing kPpt ''II all <'a.t-. c·onun~: thtnU}..!h Pa~ llt' 1 .at t'. :'\:'11 H. P. l. :--t udt·llt:-. \\'1'1 ,. l1a,1·d~· t•notudt til hta\'t' tht· .act :ond c· .. n~•·qu•·ntl~· th•· wntdH•rs had a 1 ;it ht•J dull nt~ht, fell a titnt' .. Thill!.:\ 'Till \.t•d t:tJ )>li'k lljl Wilt·tl {.,., t:ttll l·ni,,n ~t·udt·nt:-:. 111ltt' t·_ ... pt· ITdi~· a.ns\\\t•tlll~ tu tht· nanu· \('t•t>\'t't'\l :-;tat tPd da ..... }l!tH! ahuut tht· { arnptl~. a1 ousin~ tltn nlitut it-·:-; and f;atPrniti<',.; with t:h<' <'1 y. \Tht·y It' t.n Ah·xa.ndPI Ft~·id ~.. z\g it hap- 1 t nPtl th£·11' wa~ no nnl' un t'lll' f't·ld t•X<'Ppt l .. ninn nH·ll \\'ht•ll about frtty >ltHl<'lll> a.t t i\'<'d all t<'acly t\ clo bat! I<•. \\'ho ll tlto· :mlllll'ltl' l':ttt! Ht·vt•Jt·~ W!'lt' n .... kPd in I:ttl~t·t· polih· l: .. ncua!-!f' \\''ht 1 I' t hPy h:ul 1 PC'PlVt·!d tht· inft,rnt:ttinn ttwy ~t.a.tt·d \':t~Ht>ly Thtl \TilEY ,:tid rt.\ Inttl 1ht• ~r11:dl hn111 :-o uf tllf' null nint! tilt' ftP.~lliiH'll \\-:Jt.('tH·d and w:! it Pd. hut no Jn:-:tlt't'llt· ~~nid~'tlt dan·d t11 t·ntt·I tht· :-;:•Jwtu:n~ ()f thl· l'nilnt c·ampu,.; EnginP.f'l's, But :\' ot From R. I'. I. ThPt P was otH' .tllltt~dn!.! in('idt>nt a:-: PXpt•J il·nct•tl by thi:-; 1 t•pnt tt·t· wht·ll thl<'t' Y\lllll! tlH·n in a ra.r II iPcl to fotcP tht>il way tlnotU.dl thP hllll', hill WPII' qtlic]{!y ll]ljliPilPJHI('cl b)· I h•· a lc•rt ft t•:<htn<'n \Vhc•n a ,)wd it thc•y \\'Pt<' !\nion nwn tlwy an I lll'y \\'<'! t•. J;I'<'CUI:-'1' of tlu·i!' bacln\·atdl'P~=-' tht \',:lf'Ch£'1'...; •lJPI'H.Jl'lt· Sll~pi<'l·lll:-' and :1skt··d t ht•:n wl-.•·r,. t ht·y 1 t'!·'lch d \I<aJ•!Ja Alpha.\ •tn•· of tlH'Ill t ,. plit>d. \l1Ji\'P to fltlll:O:l•.\ ~Hid ThP~' d!ll\'1' It)· th\ w.!l.('h tltP K:rpJ a ,\!pl::J 0111· qt!lr k-th111kt·J. off :nHl Wt'lt' t'ollow£·tl in anotlwr cat. \\'hpn t Lt> Sll=-'JH'('tt'd t\llt·:4 {lid not ('(lt)lt· anywh•·J·•· '\'at Ill<' K A. lt\u\\ tiH· p:.tJtJl bPC':llllP jCl:_'!ll~:O: :tt ftH-• )'Ill· l•<'<'t nf a Papti\'t• of two TlH' dt i\'- P\ of flH• SU-..pil'i•Jll~ ('ClllJIP illll1l· ('' ntly 1 'II k•·•l lwhiPd tho· ~~·nt­ na,.;iunr. \\'h•··n U• .. 1'111 , ... ali:.:lttPd tl:t·y w1·t ,. ,lit! ol!ndl'd bur \ll\\'\'l tn \\':t.lk W!ll'l<' till·\ would. !'t•:u·c· tully tlu·~ walkt•d to tiw gn\P by ,\!t·xand•·t fiPicl. oJ•I·nc·d it. !lllll'it t\ t h• nrn:t?.PnlPllt of t.lH-' l!r11nokPI-~ who WPI P !\lllt' thf' !.:!.1t.1' WH\' l<l('kt>d, Hl1d \\'1'111 oUt \1\ftt•t thPilt.\ \\'HS t l.t· gt•llf'l a.l c·1 \' and f, !\11 or fi\·t· IC'ontinttP<l on Page ·I> Spelling Finals November Tenth ThP I'Itl'll l'ltrniniati(·n ()f thf' 'In ''lll't' \\'h11 ma~· t'l <J:--~·t-X:t!Illllt' tl:t' nual lt•·shrJ<t.ll :;p .. llinc: b<'t' will lw tlPimiP!~. !wit!. at S l' n1 on :-.rov .. ml>•T 10 111 Fl\'t' intt:rmur:d d· '\''''\ a.t•· t~lt' (J!d Ch•tpt·l. TwPnt~·-foUI fit·<l- ~c:ll't'U\Pd fn1· th:s t'\'t llllH!. T;w~· llll'n. I\\'<> from l':t.C'l! of tiH· tWPI\'<' :r.1\ r. .. a~w· ~ !h·lt 1 l'l11 \·~. :-.:- •tt't \\'''t:<~n~ of I·~\J.dr 1, will p·rt·tic·i- ('oll•·'-!t' tn ~illrman Ha.ll ::1 I J~, patt· Ill tiH• final:-;:. Indivrdualj p rn .. a.nd Kappa :--i1~n1a at ~tg-rn-~ m:<tc·ill'-. -tlfll'l\'i>~·c' h~ th•• tl1··f'l'i ;,! \1; p ttl It: l•:u.:ll!' :1 :-'r~ ~!llH·1uJ:-. uf tl~t· \''11 i11t1\· :--Pl'ti •n~ i IlHt Ph1 lllPPt:-: Phi ~l:.!IllH l{app:l :.t \viii (it·ft·lnllnf' tllf' nto:-:t Jll()fici•··ntjtl:t· Kap h<LU~t· at 7.1:--l p. n1 ::u;d ~pl'llt•!:-. \\'llo will I'Illt•r thP ftnal~-1 ! 1 ~1 t•p.-.ll<ln :tt Phi :-;i~lll.t l)t·lt:L t•I:ld'\t' nw.n~ . wllin~ rn:tt<·htt-.1~ 111 ' ()n'\ ,;!'}, 11 '' ill lt·:n.:.~t~· 1 p;t-. tlw l':n;tt·:.-:ant.- :ln~ ntJt lt-·quirl'd tu h.aJl,IHt :\u :t~aJn.-.1 Ht·ta ! tH·ta Pt . :1 t t 1lP EPt n holl:->1' . . ..:I\ll woi d:-; \\'lll~·n h:l\'t• hPt'll nu:-;- l~l·~uH:-; Df dll· lntl ;ti:•tllitl lit·- :-'J~t•l!t•d pi P\\HHI:.-ly hy th~· J>lTCPt!-: bat•·;-; ht ld 1:1:-o:t Tw·:-;d:ty t'\\t'\~11; . ..: 111~ nra.n. ln,.;t•·ad. thP dt! Pctor of 1 ; 1 ,. J,.., :.;;, 0 ., tl1t· ,., 11 ,.,.t _ 1 ,. '!.nc: i':t\'t· iu~t lwc·n .. nllllitlwt·d l•y !!. ;tJ~·l inn ocltH't• ... :t llt>\\' \\'ot d intu .\It 1\·illt> ::\It> ... ~t·rJl.!£'1. c:L:dt ;r :tt. tJ! th·· nwt\·h A <'ontl'~t:a.nt \\'h'' nll~~- tht· lntJallllll-al TJ~-·lmt:ll..:: ptt,gt.L.Tl. t·- ont· \\\tJ!d i..., n.ot Plilllin<dt·d; ht· :.un:-;tH't·d hy r:H· IJIII:,,nt..tt'i t· . .tn llli'!Ply ~tt•J,~ a p:u·t· t,, t'hc 1'1 at nnd l ~~~<·t,·t~. . ~~ :..!,1\'l'll tlllt' IlltJit• oppnitUlltty: ~i..!rll:' L':q dt•ic·:titd lkl~a ( l.t J,\ \\llt'll ht~ tUIII atl'i\·, . ..., If ht• ntis~-., _-..cott· of 1 :~·<~ 1 lt• L.h,· o\t•t t:-.(·' t'\\ a ~t·t·<Jnd \\'tlttl. 111 ,. p:uttt'i}Htnt 11-'ad: in l.t·:t..:llt· :t1t.t·' .~,:,ku.l~ tl·t· tnu~t Il'titt· ftl,nl 1111· rna.t'C\ll hi~Lt'St _ .. cut' \' iilt· }.fiJ...:,J:.nl :--\ t.~t· l\:tl'Jitt :~d t!l'ft•at(•d T!H-·t.~ 1\ ptl/.t· 11f .)}11.1.11 1:-- ,J\\\Hidt•d tu t~H \.Yi!lllt'l , f t'ltt· ~I~~'l:;ng bt'l'. Tlu Jll:t.ll Wlitl .-.UJ Vt\'t'~ .-..t•<\tllld. lont.:t·~t ::-- l.l'\\\.11 dt•d \\'tth :;~,_till. :tnd .~:! :'\111 t lrtl t! a,:-; <I I'Cill,...UJatltJil }IIiZt• 1•1 tPn~aJnint! <'tJiltl':-'tnnt t ! ~ t. l lt·lt:t C!l. Ill d l'lu .... t·\ ('t·:ltt·•. lt·d dt• ha.tt•, ;! 1 ll. tlid P:--1 :~lr~I!t~n cl•il ·.n111·d 11~ \\Ji'tJ 11:: \·'.':--. v •• ;ll :1 \I<' l11t\ u\t·t PL1 llt·lt.a Tl1t·1.a. ~:!-1.· In 1 llt: lit: t:l ll(·J, .. •t I. I 'ill ~1:..!11 t:t I lt•lt:l dt··f,·a.t t•d \\lpila I 'tn llt·lta .. 3ti-:!:~ Clarence Griggs Called Untiring Worker F'or Betterment Of Negr(Jt:S t•'-t1'1111\\t·' :--l'llt'faJr of tlll' (it•OI~~~· '\. Cc11 \'t·r \\~f-·lf:·l t ,. I .t·.:H! tH· in ~~dH•­ '1 t i'l :t.dy, !'jll' I K> Ill d:Ul) :t.''' lllhiy tPilHJ! )0\\', l•JlJ<ol~ \\'II! ht' in11 t)- c~t;('t•d to H rnan \Vli() hn;-:; Jll~pil t·d u't \\\Ith hi~ atnh:t.lttll nnd :--pitlt in t ... tkin!.! lH'ltt•I cttizt·ns ()f tht• f'tl}- ,,,.o] folk lHn•ahouts on tht· duh 1 \I n1 etlld llwldt•t:t.all~ .~dnunt~,t:It,tt 11 PXJ 1\'11:--t :\\ Hut thPtt· I\ Il<lt ;1 <•t•nt to huy pnt:...-J.dlli-! t.t-, bh·:o-. h1Jxin:..: ~lovt·:-i, h:t~f.u·tlJ:tll~. hut n1n~ lll~t I.llTllt'lll.~. HliJ!IHl\!f' t<lll:~ II} flll:\-. lltlt' (If tilt ot hi'! hundt •·d and on<' odd garw·.- ;•!ll! ('taft in>tnl!ll<'tlls wlnd1 t .. aeh t1 boy tt·annvorl{ and C'tHl}Jt.'l a.t inn~ lll.Stt•ad nf tht• ~lJckt·~t \\':ly to t'hPat in ,, er::p g:tmP. Tlrat's ·whP!<' \\'<' l'nion ,.;fttc!Pnls \\'1k• a :~H·J:!, l'·qd:t.lni·d that <J1lf' ,,f tl1•· h·:..:l..!t' .... + a( \·;1nt·':.:' :-- .,r t::,· .. ~tn1 u1 11f {'••IP.~·· 1:-' tht• f:!C'! that i! \\\Ill tt·!lt·.·~· lltt II:.:.ht :11 1·j,,. d.•to!\t'J ... t·\t':-. J.d liiC-ttl' I \\'!Jt·( !' <lil 1 ht• d:tlH't' f\tHli t'ht•y nu~.y IJ ... Thi:..: i-:4 a 1 P:--U\t of t ht• f ;t·~ t'J!;tl' }lCI IJ~lJt \\\)l;!{ .... Pt'\'t-'1 (!'> ttl! rP't: d11 t·t·tly 11J1 ·t}u-· f:tull I!:tth- t·l. ;tli tl~t• fltHHiJJ;.:ht:-- Wtll bt• fc. c:J:----t•n \ll t!t•·· h lll:t...::t· 1d lllll'J!ll :--. \\ :t:t•;t \\ J}J dt~l,,l t :tlltl tll.fttlSt· II .' <lLt·~t·nt:~· :--u a.-. t'tl ro~t•\\t·nt all .... l:t]t Anot!lt·t· ft·;ltu! t' (If :·}lt- ··;--;t(JJIH of t'tJltJl\• 1- t\lt· ,iJ:-'tlll:tl\t-' t'fft•t't tltt· l.;.:ittln:..: \VIII ha\1· tilt t:.,. wiltdt· !1 t1tll. f~;··~·;t\1:--•· !~tl Wtlltt· ltgtlt.-. HI I' 1::--•·•i at a!' tilt· t·•• n1 \\Ill a}'}lt<.tl :·,, h · Ill t·~:~Il t!:tl kl~t·:---. ~t'\'t•ll't1t'- bP I t•t'll,..!lllZ:Ib}t· kn:..:.ttt ,,, tht· :... ~ II~ II. I :--Ill i:~ I. \''L· \~~·\' tn \f C\l''i.\\.. ha~ :tl Jt•.tdy JtltJ\t·n tt:-- (•11P<'ti\\t'l~t·:--:- and ]•·J'lllH!lt\' :1t a Tll11[1itlldt• 11ft t•!.l·-~~· ::1:~.ct·:-- 11 \\a~ ft>a:Utt·•l w:th (iit'nYJ f,ll ,,,lllt' t·.·t·Jtt~· ,.., .. t ... l'n 11 h:~.:\ ht·f•l\' t:JI' j;J_:\ll;.:ht • f .::ll~C'··-- ::: tll) !ll:t;JI•1·'; nJ '\1 .... 11'11: t' .. J}t>l..!t- .\t. Ot.ht•r ('ull•·.;·t\\ F\r fl'.',• \t•:ll- t',,,, \~tt:l nl ()f Cn~ nt:--' h:!s ~ta.c·t·d at ll'a~t otlt' I>·n·t- ntt,lltll •I'•J.c···· Ha.1.va1 ti and Y:t!t· lt;l\\t t•:·:<-:1 h;ul Jt ft•l two \·•·aJ :-:. .. \'lti It :;a. JH o\'t•d a ~llt't't':--:-- :1; C'o .. n .. :J. \\'JIIr·1nr~. .\nth<'t ,.t, Br \\\ r:. l>itl:t•. Tuft~~. Bo\\'tlnin, HhndP I:\· 1 tll•l ;\;\: rl' ~ta!t· ~t·ttt·. c~~nn•·t·t:l'ut ('ai<'illla ~t·tt.f· ;tnd l dt' t'qli.Jitllt·llt rill tht• ··~till nl ,,f (~tt!t. ..... · \\Tl;..:h:-- tl:1, t r-h~,u.--and l\'lillti_- :·r~d \\'ill t.akt· .t < t •·\\ 11t ft\·,. :u,·l~ t:Jt:t· ::1'111 ~ ttl tn .... !all in t i:t· .\.]lltlii11 ( ;\'BltJ:t~:lliH. ·T;ll:-- pt,,llll:-'t·~ t(J tlt!J:c; Ill tho· \\'. ~· th·tt 11:1:-.. t'\'t'l \\'t koff \'\rd. ht•,·n :-:<·•·n ni l'ntt·n. \ St. Law1·enee Waterway Town Meeting Topic 1\ ~l':t(lua.tt· of Ft~k l'nt\\l'l~ity in :'-.a,I.J\'ill<'. '1'<'1111, anc! !\nion Th<·o- ll·!.ric·al ~f'lllil\\'aty, :\It. (~I i~g:-: i=-- put- til':.! tlw ZP\\t of his youtll 1nt.o nn I'!Ct.il ing H!Hl \'itltlally tllli'!'W:t!t!PC! !'lfot t to lwtl<'l' t.lw lot of tlw t.t·gi·o ht>t P. can J<•a.lly pro\'t' that Wl' don't lin· \\'bt·lht·l th .. :'t L:i\\:t·ll· ,. \'.alo·:· 111 ivcJiy towt.·t·~ an£1 havt• a l't'Hl \Va.\ Jll:ln j .... \\Ill til,\ til bt· .·a~ ··d a e lH'.t·rn fol <·ontPIHJHllaty ptuhlPt:n~. \nt•!t'll:-'t' 1 , 1 , 1 J.t'\'t' l 1 1 \\'1' ('Hn ,.ohow tllat lllll' liP\\' spillt I' r 'I . . \\'a.• att:lt'.'''\• l) It \ 1 t 11 f Htll • · ·' ! ( d :ttl~. t'X<' llt 1\'t' c,JI ~ t't'lll Alllli'll.! his <\h.tl L:t'.'\' at P ahout 30 1't1lnz <'1, hfl~ ~. H~l'd X-1--l. \\'ho \\\1'1 f' 1. ft J, ad<·rl<·->' thi~ fall wlwn t.Jw 1',\'o <'• I 'I I'd hlgi1 S<'l:i,o! !:111;; \\'hO i ·.d h~'' n sllJH'l'\'i...,ing thPil :ictivi- t t·~ lt'ft ftiJ ('tlllt'J.,:,P . .:\ly t'tll!Jlt•r'tl<lll \':11.11 I lw C'a.! \'<'! Lc•ae!lli' <':r!!lP abt~ut 1:-1' t ('(}I tnt•t 11 lt t':tlll]IUS, 1 1 1, f tt•, );· .,, , , . > t!.l' < ;<'lo1'~1' \\'. Cat \'<'1 \\\Plt'an· '' '' ,' .rttot .. ll ~t- I..!\\~ o·tll'<' I I\ Lt a~Ut• burs' tlivt ... lllll ha!\ ht'l'l1 J''t't' ( !lllft·Jt•n('t' 111 \\-:J .... hin~t<•~l } 1 l:u·t'dun tht·lt~t oft•il:t.lltit·:-; whi('h I>. L'. o\'l'l tht> l'~lllJIIII' ~ta.tt· To\\11 :\lt·t>tln~ ln .. :uk.:t .. t h~ \\\1 rY ltcJtll ,..,. m.ry hP!p tluow:h tlH· C:t!ll!HI.' Cht>:-<t. 1·ni·n1 Ccdh-l.!P ~und:t~. A l1Uildlt·d dollat~ t.:l\'<'11 for :llatlt 11 ''' 1 ' l> ,\':d.'<'lt. \r ;\o·\\' Y111 I{ t';t~. :t ttlt'inbt·: tJf tl:t-' :--.;f'\\' ; .... a I t•sul: nf thi~ t'Illt'l !!,t•IH'Y fot t't}lllJllllPilt fnt· th(-':-:1' <'ol•li-Pd h(ly~ l<i'Jt·a!Jon 1:-:H!c·r~ and I am now by l\nion stu<!Pnt~ tiJt.,ttgit tit<• \i\ t'n t·llt' .,f tht· dP:tllt•:...:t Carupu~ (,ll!·st tnn.y lllt>an thP tlif- Jil)\lll:.! :-;andi()t gtid tP:tnl~ in tht· 1• lt'lll't' 111 yt•a.t=-- ft<•In n•1\\. bt·twt·t·n '.ty. a hoy·:-- t•on1'tnuit 1 ~ his PdU<'ntion to But tlu• fouthall st•a:--tlil will bt· c• llt ~(' to lw<'<lllH' a bt't:·t·t .. \nicti- c vt·l· in n fP\\. \\'Pl'k~ a.tttl til1!Sf' 3tl \an. or jotuin~ a l!un<l. Tlu• l:t~h· hny:-o and I \'\·ill ha\'f' to nwkt-' pr ohlt-'l.l. I t.hinlt. i~ that ~Ptiou:..:. :• h:tl<' ~'\\Ill in th•· old \'an Ctttl<·r If \\'t' \\n h·lp l\<'<'P :.It•·'•' 1'11:!· l·utldln~ o!\ .Jny :--t'lPt't' ()u; h<·ad c!Jun off t!tt• :..:tJtof't~ undt>J ~llJt'l· q11:u ic··r,.;. o,,Iy ~pi! it' and into•t<',.;t \'1\'<1 play, \\'c•'ll jn-t It•· I\ \'ln>..: V.:Jl) kPPJl t'hP !,!lllUJl to~pf}H·l tlwn: tJ~a,t l•:lgt'll1P~~ t11 lt>:IJ 11 :JtHI :•:ul ['m SPt'iou>'l\' :1ft aid that an p:•t t.ir·ip.ttP whwh fin·< thn~c· 311 l'lt•·r· l:wk c.1f c·qtt.ipnwnl wtll br··a k hco>·s n::w. The·~ :tt\ I'll\\' \\\'· t:;t·il llHJI:tk. J·lt·t!·l~· ttll:->1\\'<llthy and \\'(•11 d1~ Thl' C:ll\'t'! LPB.f.!IIP i,.; partially r·iplnw.tl. ):ut ti1t•i1 nail\'<' t.al•·nt.\ :-il'nn~ott>d hv tht• ~ch('nf•f'tadv f111 att~ i-- nn\v tl\111<' tlt' 1, .... :-; Cnmmunlty C''lwst whic'h pays ren.t tCunt.int!Pd lltt Pm~·· 41 Yt~tl\ ;-;tat1· PnWt'l .\lit l:lltlt:V. tq.- l-:t>ld t}lt' hJil lltl\\' Jlt-·tldtlll-: h••f111 p ('lllll..!lt•:-;:-J t11, t!H· }'I<IJ!''l a...; \toS:-'t'JJ. tta.l tu an~ :un!..: 1 :t11L't' pi tJ...:l :In f(lr t!Jt· ~~·~'11111~ 11i t:1•• ~~~:11! .\ttlt•JII';J.ll ('tlll t lilt' 11 t .. , ).1t. }):t\'J.d:-;!111 ~>XJ.blllt'd ti~:d tltlh ·Pnll· 1;) n:ilt>:-. of 1 ou~·h w:ltl·l b,:. t\\t't-•n .:\Ta~ ..... t 11:1 :JJ:,l O,..: .. ~t·n~lnu .~ fllal'\1' it ltii}HI~\\I}J:t• ll!l\\ foJ 111:. :--:-t,:t d rtt'l' 111 ~lllll:.! t a! :..'O \'c•:-;_ .. ,·> t'•1 JH'llt tt :Itt· t11 th1·' int(•J io1 t•f tl~i· .\n~t·: it· 111 ('111\~lt'i·IJt t\ Chwa...:\ ell I>nlut·h Th-· blll b,·ft•It· (\,n:.:l •-· . ...:~ JIIO\'II.f'~ l'!li t!u· lr11ldin\...: ol :t d: !:' :tt .:\T·t ..... ·~·nn ftll t)·,. dt,Hldt• Jill! I liSt· (d i'lt':ltin:..: :1 dt•t•p pno] hll n.·1Vit:01 lton and gPtH'rating Ph•('\rir- Ptwrg:,. Band J. · ol'((li.sl ,•' Ray 1\.ello;.:~ Students Crash Union, Skidmore Girl Goes to Hospital Afi'eU\ Accident: Three Ovhers Escape Unhurt Leland Calls Bid Sale 'Negligible'. Warns Of Price Rise Nov. 5 A ::--ta.ttltn;.!; tlln•,vation In (~r it!- trun Ball pnH·t·tlur t' was anntiUHt·ed 1 yo·,;to·t d:t,\' by Ft o clt·lfl'k \\\Jk()ff. '·13. I dt:tlllllan of tlu ... y•·a.r'.-1 tlatlCt'. \\'h<·n pl:tn~ f.,r tho· \!!Ill !:all Ba· I ;..:at p(Jp\ \\'Pit' In:td•• publiC\. \I~a:I H:q..:atdlt··· 1:-. a fa:-.cinatlll~ <..:Hint 1 f l narH·t· lll\'t·ntt·d bv tht> : ... ·Jio· l>r::rn, \f l'h:<!Jl!lali \\'rk<Jff :uu I 1!:1 yut~>nd .\hit h·h. 'I:.!. Tht· ba::--- k Idt·.a 1.-. this t·a('lt fia'tt•Jnitv l l•:c·k- 11. c,:JII •prd•·rably bt·au·fiful.l f.tl lt'Jlt 1':\-I'Ilt It, Ctt Oilt• tJ'cltwk Ull I lilt' 1'\'t'l)illJ..:. llf tht· dHIH'I', thP •·J: .. dll •·t·n Y' 1Ung lad It·:-. \\'Ill ;,~=--t·Ill- lll•· c •n t l:o· b::J:c!.-t:urd; :-;•mny Dun ha111. mao·,;tr\ oof th\ Hall. will tlwn Jlh'k a ft n.tt'I nttv na.nu· ftonl his bta,;,.; dl'! by; ar{d ttw luc·ky gill ,It'JHt':-'t'ntul~ that ht~U:-:t· \VIII rr-- l i t'I'IVP a ~rft fell t'<tC'h and t'\'t>I',Y young- lady \\'Pt·k•·ndtng tn that 1 llflll:·.t·; ~ht· ht•J :-'t•lf 1:-' !.tJ lP('t'iVt' a ft 11tba:l ~H!\nt•d hv t'\\f'IY lllPnlhPI. !,f tho· ,<o!U<HJ . I Campus l{t>adion C'arupu~ lt>H('tjun. \\'hilt·' it var· it·d in iniPn~it\·, wa~ dbtitH'tl\' fa\'- oJaldt· f., \H;;ll Hac:at .. IIt·.\ Chair- rna.!: \\\ikoff wa~ df'lit Jut!,.;. \It':; a h·11 ifH· tdl•a'\ Ahh 1ch V•/H.;-; n1oro ('ontatiH'd. .;aying nwdt·stlv: \! think it'll kno\k 'pm d<'a.d.\. Jona- t}nn Pt•ar~ldl, ~1unt:-• t·dttor of ThP Conl·oJ d!t•nsis. ,;aid wistfully: \! ~ll!o· lwpt• my gtt I wino< that foot· ball ... c;,.,., g<' :lliddl<·mb,.;, '45, said 11':-'PJ'\\t'dly \It ou~ht t'<1 pt·oyp in- ! '\''''ling.. Stanlt·y <it .... n. '43. m i t~·p~<·al Hun~ont :-ot• statPd \Th1s T\\'' l.lllt11l .-litd•·Ht:-- and ow· I!'> Uli.t' idl'a l'hat atn't off tht· cob.\ ~h.Jdnunt· t'lt·:-;llnlatJ t·:-;c~qH\d tl1JUI~·; c;uillg-t·t ~I ,,, '-13. \\·as ht>ard to 111 :tn :tut· 11 BHdni,. :t·Tidt·nt \\hid1 1 :-:a.y: \I'll L.· thl'lt· at on£>. !\\oth- :-'t'll. t!J,. tuu:!h III'<'U)I:tllt of tbt· t':il.' tn~ <'tJUld kt·Pp nH· H\\'ay.\ Charle!'l :t. ~k\dn1or.'· ftt·:-ohn::nl. t11 tht· h(J:-.-1 1 ~tilP:-'. '·l:?. publt<'ity t'ha,irn1an for J!ll.t. t.ltt' ;--.:tl UI day n1;.:ht. tht· Hall. v.·a:-- lll!\' u~ual {'unserva- Tht· H.·Tidt·nt tlt'l'UJrt·d \Vht·n tlw tl\'(' ~plf \\'ht'll ht> la.bPI{'d thP ·plan: bt :du·~ ()t· a l't·ntal ('a.t dtt\'t>ll hv \(~ood.\ l>rt :I!:'J,.:. ''1~•. fa:lo-d to \\'ll!k a·, 1 P. .. n Lt·!..rld, l!!•asutct· of the !.,. \\;: ... l! 1 1lnt;'ln...; th\ <'tH\'t• 111 'tht· .:lt·t·t-fta.t.t>Illitv t'IJUnPil and <'hc:ur- h!ld~· \\'t·t tilt• l>t·!a\\'al!• and Hut!· wa.n \f tho• tiekl'l C'omrnitU•p fur· ~~~~1 f~.tJIJ•,·.tl !;altw:t\ l~t-~\\'t·t·n f~a.ll- tLt· int,·I-ftatt·Initv ball, ~tatt:·cl VPS- ~t-on '\\' :-;;ltat\c:\ . I t.•Jday tha.t t.h\ iickt'l ,;a!<',.; \~P!'P :\li:lt•! \\ .t:-. cltt\\In:..: ·111 lllllt·!\ till tlt·t.:;h~iblP \'J \\'ant tu WUll tbe Lt~til 111 :tn t'Ifolt' tfl tua).;_,. th 1 · hil! 1 sttHIPnt ho11\· tl.a.t thtlif· diP only ju...:· l~t·l\J ,. ii11· ln Id:..:t· fl .. :-<cud ht· nua• days IPft to get the ticketb ;•i•I·:lt··! tht· h1:1l\t· .... ;d tht· top, ~ot .fur $3.30. On ~t>\'Pnlb{'l' :Jth the 11 1 ' : t-·:. : 1• 1t1 :tnd t l:t·n app:11•d 1 ht· JltC'l' ~<H'~ UJJ to $-\L 10,\ LP1and said t·~Jo~J:...t·rw~ hJ.'tl\• \\ht(·h a.i...-o tailt·d Lt>l.UH.i abo :-.tatt.•d that thPl'l' h,l\'l' •,, W~tJI\ T· :t\·utd ..:t~n::.: r1\·t·l tht· l.1·t•n about 3x0 tiekt't:-. dit->tributed \:llh'llll\IlJt·J~~ }]I· :--\\t'! \'t•d tht· L\<U I int~~ tb· tt:tJr:t•\\\oJI\ uf tht• bt!d~~\'­ rh .. ,\t•Ull:..! Wotn:nl Wt•nt· t}uoUgh n:nolli.!. thP va1 iou.-. salPsntPn. Tie- l:t ~~ t.o ht' \'a lid n1u~t ht> signpd on t Lc 1 ··vt·rst· :-oidt> bv t ht~ sa }p:-;tnan. Lt·land 111 gPd all '-'1 udt'nb who plan : .. att.Pncl thr ball to bu\' thPit tic· kt t'~ }H•ftll'P thP l'i:-:? in J;l'iC't'S. tho• \\'111c''llldd . '. tol llant :--1\.1. -~~. \\'h'l W;l.'\ ltd- 1 iro:.: .:1 tho· '\'i.l \\'\' \Ia:' unltur t hut 11:.-; ·'att· \\·a:-' :-·li:.:Ltl\ c·ut ln fl\ in~< c:l.''· :ll!ll•·t·,- :.:11! ,·,.,Jilllt'<la r{ 11111 ~ Booth Drawing-s ~H'! of :-·tttrl:f•..: hut \Viii t'Tllt'l ~~·! .Tuhn Pnu 11 ., chair nlan of thP fllltl} lht· dt. ldt·llt 1111.\ II I I 'l I ~. ' 1 · 1 '' '<H'·I ':\'' t c·omn1ttiP<'. announe<'d today 1 \ 1 ' '\-' tnat th:• drawings for thP booth\ l·:,td•n•·•· tl::.t tlt• t'~dlo!l!' flurd' \\iii t..tk<' pla<'P >'lllll<'t.i!IH' thb wepk ):.ld Jt:t.l-\t·'t! 1111t \\·a~ lt'JHIItf'd h~ ilfft'l\ aJ} thf• ftflfPI11it)PS ha.VP paid n~a \-'\ l·nl<'ll ;-;:t udt·nb \'\ ht, pa~\\t'd t JH· JH icf' f<n· dra\VII1g. ! L•· .-t·t·nt-· 11 1 tllt· :l('t'ldt·nt :tnd :---up. ·rhl' :-;:Ill·:\rnt•n fPt ttckPt~ an• u ... ..; 1''\ Tt•! l :\.1 J h·1 -~ t•l:illll wht·n t ht·\ !'oi.l<)\'\'S. Hnu·t• .:\lay. Alph.t Df'lta ,-·uol t\1::1 lht•t•· wa~ 11\ \\tl p:rt1'!1 cir I Phi; Ralph ::\!a.taJazzo. Alpha Phi 11· illld .. r \\\ \\'I ooll !liP jiH\'t'llll'nl !l .. It·t; Den B! ockwPll. BPta ThPta lll'i•tlll<' .,,. \ lorok•·n ax! .. which 1 l'i: Frl'd \\\ykof!. C'hi Psi; )1ilton \·\·ould h:!\t• tt'!t·a~t·d thP hr·al\t' ~ ;\t·uh,~UI't. I>Pit.tt l 1 hi. Roy \\~Ph­ flu,.: l'a.ol tlw hr ::lu·\ lH·o·n \\'OJ h;in.: :<I PI, DP!t.a Phi and Ken Lash<'r Jil uflt'I i~ OP.Jt:~ l\'\pBilot .. TlJ, loridc:t·, wl,t<·h i,.; <'XI!<'at<•l\ Ray Aldtt<'h. Kappa Alpha: Lany n:.:Jo\\. h:.t.- !J,. .. n th•· \''\Ill• of man~ Ft•ldma.n. Ka.J•P:t :-.ru; Howatd \'an :1 ·.·uit·n::-- h1 t·nu-..,· \t· : bt· ~h:1.IJ' HI;_ \·alkt'Pbllt g, K:tppa. Stgn1a; Donald ) 1 1 OO'II'lrt·,< :n:d hltnd ']11•1, on hotlt ,\holld, !'hi n .. rt.a Th!'la; (']iff Bow- ,.;td<·• ''\'h. !'hi (iamma DP!ta; A•non Possible Infirmary Discrr.cssed by Trustees \\'hnt !llll~ ho· !.Ito· fit,-t \'''Pin tho· o·•\'t'llllllll httilc'.in~ 0 r a 11 in fir mal\' :1t l'ntt.n w:·~ t:t.kPn liP at tht> nlPt-i- 111~ 11[ tlJt-• c·td!P~P lJ'U~lt t·:-; t~P)Ci llll F! Ill'!,\' Th<' II t\t'''\ ::ppollll.!'d .1 -..pf•<·i:tl ,.,lnlntttt\t> t'11 Jn\·~·;-;th . .:nt·· :r•·:rlt iJ pr ohlt·m, aff•·<'l ill!! t.I1P c•ol- IPl!l'. :lt't'<ll ding to an Hl'.llottr1<'·P- lt1~'1lt nt'.t<lt· Vt>~lt'l't'n\ hv f>r,··~idPnt l'ox . · · \.\Hl!lllt.: •lli.lf-·l t!l:L1t•·l:' tn hi' COl~· ~! 1 ·, lt•d h~· t'ht· <·o:tlilllttt•f• ::-: thP p· !\~ih:• n•·1'd f•lf :tn 1nfi1 rnary ... 1)1· f-.'1 x ~n:d. T;lt' tllt'l1 :tfl}Hiil1tt>d till I ht• {'Olll- lllltl.o•o• in..II!dt•d \\\. f!ll\\'111<1 \\'ug ht c:::: i rman. 111 r..:. z, h l hwko·<. ::\lr ,\ntholl,\' H•lltdl\~·. Ill. l;_ :\I C'lc,\\\t·. a.nd I>tnft·:--t'·'r E. S C ~mtth Tit a!. 1'!11 !-1igma D<'lta; Bt'n LPland. !'hi ~li.!nUI I<appa; C'ha.rlP,; Still's l'\i l\p 'ilon and HrtH'<· Skidmore. f;r~ ma C'hi. .J <~hn Po11!P, ~igma l'ht; Hrll \'\.PI· lot. Tlwta DP!ta Chi. Th<' :-.rPutra1 r•·pt <'~Pttta.ti\'l'~ an•. Janw~ Still- r.mn. South C'olltogP; .Jim :IIc:-.rultv. Ole! gym Ha!l; AIPX ::\Iaxw<'ll. :-.rorth Co!!PgP and. A!Px AJ'(Jil,\' at laq:<'. Tiel{('!~ :nP a!~o available at thP h<~ok stl1t'l' and f1om )!r-\. Briggg al HalP Hnu,.;1•. C'ommitt P<'lllPI1 Pmph:t'IZ<'d last ! r•ig-ht :hat undPr· no eonditions I \\'oU!1l t lwt·p hP any rPduction m ti ... pt i<'(' of I iPkPt\ aft:er· t h<' dancP ll:t~ lwgUil nn ~ovt~nlhPI\ lth. Al- though JatP PUOlPIB ha\'P, on ~PVPra} tl\Ca~ion.s 1n thP pa~t. :-:ucct')Pdrd tn ~.:• I ling l'<'dl!Ct'd prie~\ flc>tll dancP c \n1n1ittt>t'~ who \Vt.'l P willing t.o L.tkP alm:t\t anything. a,.; long as t'IH· t~ffkial \\!\ was 11\'<'r, thi,- i J•l aeticP will dPfllliiP]y not bt> in ilrtr<'P this yPar.

m~t C!tntttnrllieU.G{ll TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1941 EDITORIAL 2 ~lemLer uf the Associated Colleg-l:ltt.~ Prt=ss and dis- tnllutor of the Collegiate Pl~~::-t Htpre:;entt::u for Xatlunal A.1.t\\crtising by ::\e;tlllJ1t.d _-\d\.l;'li.i;:::dl;; ~t;l \- ice. lt><' .. Collt>ge Publi:;p- QI.nurnr E<illor;u! Office. S1llimo.n Hall. L'mon College, Pub- iication urr;ce. The Ga- lette r·r~:;\· 33! :itate :it, Et.tt:retl ill the Sc.henec- ~:t.:Y l'o~t Of~ilc ~>.s ::ict.:- ond Cla.s\ :llail :11aner. :5uu-3rnpuon 5c a eopy: $3 year; lielivetetl anywhere \' tne Cnited ::ltates. 1 R. P. I. Midnight Attack Meets Efficient Defense As Umion T a:kes Many Prisoners, (bases Marauders l'l'.:- r~t_Jll'e.61::'lllati\•t, 4~l· }l'adbl•l .·\ \ t'!!Ut. ).: e\\ Yurl.;. Cn~·. \.! Causa Persa Parole .-lssai\ :Senior Board Armand y, Felgentmum., ............ _.,.- Kappa :\u Huu,.c--1-7331 ................•......... , Edltor-in·Chlcf J II> lin l'~rhrdn ...................... , .... l~uppu :\u !luusc--1-7331 ........................ Business :Uanng·er Solomon lllechman . , .•.. , .... , _ ... I~ Jlidlile :::iwtiutt, :\onh Cl'llege-6-9966 .............. , ... 3la•nagiug Editor ,Jonathan l't·Hr>Ull .. , .•.. , ......... , .... _ .. :Stgma Pili Pl:ic~-!-ti8~1 .... , .... , .. , ......... , .... , . Spurts Editor sum 11 ~J PorHlo~ . __ ... _ ... _ ............... K'lPPa :\u HoUo'<-!-7331 .......................... As>oeiate Editor Junior Huanl-l!ubt'rt Ilayuer, Thutna.ti o:conuur. Har- Vt>\' Fi:--h.!HIJH•, Jal'k ~l't1ulz, ur·augt:r Tl'lpp. :\ornlaU FOx, Slat f l >hl\lograpner Suuhomnro lloanl--Thomas Cullen. \\\iHiam Hart. Al- bt:;i·t Krontek, I·:d\'l;anl Jtdllt:-::tJtJ. ~eyn10ur Thiclonan. I~usine\ Staff- ~le!Yille ~'lesstmger, David Rosenblum, ~larYin Ct:~nlt::r. l~!o.U.t 1 EtlHor ......................... 'l'hom,ns O'('onnor A\'~i ... tunt.. ............................... Urnnger 1\ripp Tuesday, Octobel' 28, 19·11 HEALTH HOUSING AT UNI·ON That there has been no recent statement as to whether or 1wt Union needs an infirm- ary may scarcely be attributed to reticence upon the subject by campus residents. Pro- posals for the establishment of an infirmary have come and gone het·e with almost mon- otonous regularity. These proposals have asually been accom- panied by clouds of words, after the dissipa- tion of which the matter has been dropped, fot· the time, with no one particularly satis- fied. There are perhaps three major reasons why there has been little satisfactory resolu- tion of the problem of an infirmary on the Union campus: They Are: 1. .Pl'oposals have almost invariably been buried under a deluge of comment that may be summal'ized as stating either that an in- firmary is \ a good idea\ Ol' that it is \un- necessary.\ J.\Iany words have been bandied about-but few facts have been given. 2. There seems to have been no compre- hensive, factual investigation and report made, on the basis of which a decision could be taken. 3. Like most problems in real life, it is not possible to present a case for or against an infirmary which is completely \good\ or completely \bad.\ There are significant pro and con factors on each side of the question. It is, however, unfortunate that the problem of an infirmary at Union has remained hang- ing in mid-ail·, for the question of health housing on the campus is a significant one: vVhen a dormitory resident is confined to bed with a minor ill, he is faced with an un- pleasant prospect. He has only four walls at which to stare, meals are apt to consist of milk and a sandwich brought by the good- will of a friend, and, except for the daily visit of the doctor, he is unattended by competent authority. A fmtemity man has a prospect that is SONNY The more we have been studying our ex- changes, the moJ•e we have become con- vinced that the Gridiron Ball committee made the wisest available choice when it signed Sonny Dunham. Of all the schools of our relative size little better. He may usually depend on steady, warm meals, and continual company but that is, in itself, a risk-for the close contact in a fraternity house may wen pass along the ailment to others. Further, t·esting in bed to cure a minor ill in a drafty house dormitory section is far from the best treatment available. Partial Solution A measure of this problem was solved by the voluntary medical insurance plan which the college has p1·oposed to parents at the beginning of the past few academic years. Under the plan a certain period o ffree hos- pitalization and care is made available for a yem· following the payment of the $12 charge. This partial solution, to which many colleges without infirmaries have had recourse, has had its advantages, in that it may replace the $20,000 to $60,000 expenditure which it has been estimated the college would have to make on an infirmary. It has further made voluntary a health tax which, upon the erec- tion of an infirmary, would have to be com- pulsory and would probably have to be closer to $20 than the $12 now paid for the medical insurance. Summary The problem of \shall we have an infirm- ary\ may, therefore, be somewhat simply summarized : Is the utility of the convenience to be gained from an infirmary on campus greater than the attendant disutilities which would be caused by the large initial outlays needed for its erection? A solution to the question may well come as a J'esult of action taken by the Trustees at theit· meeting last week. They established a special Health Committee which will, among other matters, consider the \possible need of an infirmary.' ' We hope that this committee will make public the result of its investigation into the problem so that the campus as a whole may, fm· once, gain a clearet· picture of just what this infirmary question is all about. DUNHAM which are planning week-ends in the near futuf'e, Dunham's appears the only selection of them all who is really capable of playing usweet\ as required for a college formal. Indications point to a highly successfHl Ball. TO A GREAT ALUMNUS Colleges are built upon and around men, and it is the personalities and the effo1·ts of the:se men which make a college what it is. One of these significant personalities in the Union of the past half century is Dr. Frank Bailey, Treasmer of the college, who is completing his fortieth year serving in that capacity. Now a septuagenarian, Frank Bailey has given of himself during his entire adult life to make this college the proud and successful institution of learning that he has wanted it to be. How wPll Frank RailPy ::tncl hiR rolleagueg have succeeded in their efforts on behalf of the college is demonstrated by a comparison of the Union of his day-late nineteenth cen- tury when what was once the best college in the United States had dwindled to a student body of few students-with the Union of to- day, with its many students and many facil- ities. We salute Dr. Bailey on his fortieth year as treasurer of the college and trust that it serves only as anniversary of many more years of similar service. If Union can pro- duce one Frank Bailey every generation, she need never '''orry for her future. <Continued from Page 1) hardy souls ventured forth to do pitched battles between enterpris- battle. ing Rensselaer lads and brave It was evident to the Union men l:'nion men with the Union men the tha:t the alleged R.P.I. men were victors. The reports of some stu- frightened to death and they took dents led this reporter to believe the time as psychologically correct that there was a continual stream to challenge them. Which they did. of engineet·s entering Ellis Hos- A.fter some explanation a;nd Menti- pita!, but as wa;s later disclosed in the social studies division which proved particuiarly boring for one usually engrossed in mathematics and thermo dynamics. Reports are that he was miserable for the whole fifty minute period. On Time for the Game fication showing they proved them- only one badly frightened institute Thete is the story of two R.P.L selves to be G.E. employees who boy was taken there, and it was stl:tdents fotmd in the grandstand lived in a ·boarding house just off proved that he wa:s bluffing. His at Alexander field about two the campus and had inopportunly spi·rit was not to the liking of the o'clock Saturday morning. They decided to park their car behind the Garnet gladiators so he was taken \rere sitting exchanging a •bottle gymnasium on that certain night.· to the bus termj.nal and placed when accosted and they aslted po- Much disappointed, the Union men aboard a Troy-bound bus. li.tely when the game was going walked from the field of battle h F to begin. As more Union men without having fired a shot and as. Caught on t e enc:e rushed in for the captut·e they was later disclosed by one of the The detai'rs of the capture of this. shouted \het•e they come, here brave lads, secretly relieved. miscreant were disclosed later. comes the Union team!\ It seems that a group of Union Down on Seward Place, the Phi Pose as Hamiltonians men were chasing a group of R.P.I. S1gs were rudely awakened shortly Three Union students who visited men and all except this .particular. after midnight when some 15 R.P.L the Union Inn after the freshmen- man escaped over a picket fence. men chased one lone bmther •back sophomore struggle said that they As he was going over he hooked to the !louse. One shout b10ught were mildly accosted by some engi- himself on one of the picll;ets. He pajama-ed young men tumbling neers who claimed that they were was ly-ing on the other side moaning onto the street from all angles and from Hamilton. The Union men when the Dutchmen came upon the R.P.I. men left, leaving in their were not so easily misled, however, him. They, being gentlemen, be- wake two coupes. and ·being in a suspicious mood came sympathetic and gave him As Union~ites concentrated on the e>ne of the group asked the •self- aid. When he was finally brought· pleasant task of disabling one styled Hamilton men if they saw into the light of a street lamp it ccupe, the other suddenly sprang much of Forrest Evashevski. With was seen that his trousers were to life and drove off, with a Phi Wl 'de eyes ·they I·nnocently asked torn but there was no blood. With-· s· · d 'th l'f' d tg car eqlllppe · wt amp 1 ter an who he was. They left soon after out blood the Union men refused searchlight in hot pursuit. that. ·to believe that he was hurt and One R.p.I. freshman' Capt ured they quickly discarded him. They The Phi Sigs retired to their · H · house, sent a number of detach- early l ·n the event'ng 1 ·n an ex- told him to start runnmg. e m- d h I 'd ments hither and yon, and waite tt·emely inebriated condition said quired if they thought · e was t1 - h f h d' f h u · patiently for t e owners o t e IS- that his three companions, even ding them.. One 0 t e mon abled car to return. A car drove drunker than he was, had come students was heard to ask him t f up and a suspicious looking group to Union to hold a beer party in meaningfully if he was no rom of young men got up on them, the center of Alexander field. They R.P.I. ready for the kill. There was a had conceived the plot over beer In all, there were eighteen host- shout-and Union men rushed to early in the evening, had piled into ages taken in the night's foraging. the attack from both sides. Yes, a car and finally reached Sche- Saturday morning they were greet- the group inspecting the car were nectady after several tavern stops. ed in chapel by President Dixon Union-they wanted to \borrow\ They had parked their car on Ryan Fox as \embassies from a some gas. But they were too late, Park Avenue and three of the four neighboring power.\ the gas had been watered as an had crawled through the fence They were entertained by the extra precaution. into the arms of waiting Union Union students in many strange men_ The freshman, who had sat ways. Two were reported to have Captives Released in the car for a while, grew im- been chained together and made Meanwhile, 'Stu\ Wilbur and patient when his companions failed to wax floors of one fraternity Steve Ensco had been captured. On to return and had gone looking for house in preparation for a dance. the promise of immunity for the them. He was taken as soon as Another of the captives was given shiny new car they were using, the ht walked through the Phi Delta a block \U\ haircut. R.P.I. men let them go, ·and they Theta gate. One fraternity house in an at- re-entered the fray with a re- Friday evening proved more ex-, tempt to find an original punish- doubled vigor. citing than Thursday with a few ment took an engineer to a class In still another portion of the ~------------------·----------------------------1 t t maze of streets below the American Locomotive Company's parking lot, cars were chasing each other with screeching tires and racing motors. Standing complacently on the cor- ner were two young men who oblig- ingly shouted, \They went that way!\ to every Union car. i The Corn Is Green i l-----------------------------------------------~ DRAMA On The Screen-Movies about marriage difficulties and the wild and wooly are the fare for the weekend at our first run cinema sanctuaries. At Proctor's, domestic trouble is on view in \Lady Be Good,\ and the horse opry is \Bad Lands of Dakota.\ \Lady\ is an- other one of those M-G-M (Marvel- ous-Gigantic-Magnificent) flickers with fifteen stars, and whi.ch runs for five hours-or so it seemed to us. The story is about a song-writ- ing husband and wife team who take up about the first half of this opus to split and be reconciled, and so help us if they don't do the same thing all over again in the second half. The songs are on the undistinguished side except for the title number which is all that is left .of the original play. Ann Seth- ern who sings is the only one to emerge with banners still flying after going through this lengthy and labored epic of the back stage. Eleanor Powell and Red Skelton do the maximum of the minimum that is required of them, . . \Bad Lands\ features a large cast head- ed by Richard Dix, Robert Stack, and Frances Farmer_ This is all we know about this one as we have \This Time The Dream's On Me\ which features a lovely cornet in- troduction by Bobby Hackett and the hot-potato-in-mouth style of Ray Eberle's singing ... Under the heading of \Novelty Numbers\ comes T. Dorsey'~ clouble faced platter of \The Skunk Song.\ Con- fidentially, it . , . Dinah Shore's \Is It Taboo?\ ls a beautiful new num- ber all done up in rhumba tempo ... Freddy Martin's engraving of \Tonight We Love,\ based on the popularized Tschaikowski Piano Concerto in B Flat Minor. is one of the few really good recordings of this post mature hit of the coun- try. , . As if hearing it on the ra- dio all the time isn't bad enough, Sammy Kaye has gone and done a pressing of \Modern Design.\ Let's hope this is not an \avant garde\ of something ... Leave it to Earl Hines to come through with the sizzling platter of the week. It's \Yellow Fire\ which is a showcase not only for the Father's nimble Steinwaying, but for the entire band as well. The reverse is \It Had To Be You\ which would be better without the vocal trto back- Ing Madeline Green's commendable vocalizing. S. G. Finally one Union car paused to chat with these helpful souls. They didn't look familiar. \Say who's your freshrr,an English prof?\ asked someone. The two helpful souls were stuck. They were from R.P.I. And .so ended the participation of two of the would-be marauders. They spent most of the rest of the morning waxing floors, and visited Raturday's Daily Assembly and the afternoon':;; football games as \guests of the management.\ VAUGHN MONROE d P er in the at dinfler on suP brighler, goy.or Century Room not as yet seen it. -;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;n The State's man and wife filum .i'l n H't\ orchestra and with his \Smas ''S BIGGEST NEW yoRK \urnE 11 sHOW is \Our Wife\ and its saga of the sagebrush is \Texas.\ The former, although lacking the pretentious- ness of \Lady Be Good', certainly does not make up for it by its scatterbrained plot. As one critic once said of another movie, this one should sue its authors for non support. Melvyn Douglas and Ruth Hussey deserve better. . . \Texas\ is a hard ridin,' two fisted, cow punchin' tale of two pals who go their separate and varied careers, only to meet again on opposite sides of the law. Not too original, we admit, but the picturP does have its share of excitement and laughs. The cast is go.od with a special nod in the direction of Glenn Ford. We could get to see only one pro- duction of the Chek•hov Players when they were in Albany. This was the difficult and somewhat undramatic \King Lear\ by W. Shakespeare. After a rather dull beginning, the play picked up con- siderably, and Mr. Gordon Rust, faculty advisor to the Mounte- banks, was heard to remark that \Lear gat stronger as he became weaker.\ MUSIC Disc-cussions-One of the pret- l tiest in some time is Glenn Miller's Is your car ready for cooler weather? Are you going to fol- low the team? Get your car in shape at BEEKMAN'S 601 UNION ST. Mobilgas - Mobilubrication Mobiloil . Dancing Chorus featur.ng The d ablesl of Eight Comma or _, 5 to6P.M· EADANCE Saturuays, . T f rtable oulstde 2000 large, como. ate bath, at 11 with prJV roams, a STUDENTS' RATES SPECIAL [ THE om,mDDORE Marhn Sweeny, President lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ = = ~ Schenectady Engraving Co. ~ - - = = = = = a = Engravers for The Concordiensis = - - ~ § = = - - - - § 147 Jay St. Phone 4-9002 § § § ii lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll r. I H 'Y II Fil Ya Pa Pa Ya Pu Av Fu 0~ wr Sa tm tir sa· in t01 en to: 32- ha co otl Ur ty' ha kn fu th VI ab h0 tO I sa !OJ In sh th !ill fu. fo: pa Ur co Tr of th on a pa ba of 0\~ bll th pli Pt ha de I I( th wl bt• en R1 gr ya y, pl !(' pt; 18 ur 1'\V lo• Wl R• th m

2 one a tics are the two po- men they here Phi •back bling and their the one Phi and their tach- dis- a to Yes, were late, s an and On the the they re- the an g lot, with cor- that ed to They from the isited d the M. ol as 111111~ - ~ - - - IIIII~ 3 SPORTS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1941 WQt (1J:nutnr.btt1t6t.£i E • I ng·1neers Running Attack Routs Dutchmen By 32-0 w--- Hand G~arnet Worst Beating In Long Ser·ies 1 I Chart of Saturdayas Gridiron De.bacle •. II .Jo lfl ---- -- --- 1---- STATISTICS OF THE GAME ~-, - - - 1- -__r--\----t-==-~-~=~- Union R.P.L First downs . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 18 Yards gained rushing ... 97 341 1=:=-:~-. rn......-t--~-· I a:.;:..:.·'::! - - - - - - Passes attempted. . ...... 18 2 Passes completed ....... 10 0 Yards gained passing .. 92 0 Punts ................... 6 3 ---1 Average of punts ....... 36 31 Fumbles ................ 4 1 Opponent's fumbles recovered ............. 1 3 '=-===' - - -- -'1--. -- * * * The nine hundred R.P.I. faus who made the trip he1 e from Troy Saturday afternoon to see their 1 team play Un-ion for the fortieth time really got an eyeful. They 1 saw the Eng-incet·s, beaten badly i in their last two starts, score a 1 touchdown in every period, added: cne extra one in the fourth, and 1omp over our hapless Dutchmen, 32-0. It was just another instance of having two teams on the field; one could do a.Jmost nothing wrong, the other could do almost nothing. Most impolite of the visitors to Union's Alumni homecoming \par- ty\ was Warren Lemke, Rensselaer Hophomore halfback, who probably hasn't yet matured enough to know good manners when away ftom home. He romped through the Union line and around th: 1 Vniun ends for an average or I about seven yards every time h0 got hold of .the ball, scoring four touchdowns. The rest of the Rens- salaer wrecking crew didn't take long to get into the spirit of things. In fact, their blocking was nothing short of devastating, blockers came I through into the Union secondary like cannon balls, their linemen re- fused to be budged to make way for Union ban-carriers, and their pass defense snuffed out promising Union thrusts in that department. Garnet Cooperativt> 1 The Garnet proved to be most 1 cooperative in any R.P.I. ventures. I Their only serious offensive drive' of the afternoon, midway through the second quarter, ended dismally -- 1--i-- .--:-- 10 Rush--- on the enemy's 18-yard marlt with ------- a ;:~k~~l!k!u~~~~·hdown. parade Touch Football parade started almost wtth the ball game. After taking the kick- PI ff s off, the ;outchmen reached their I 5yo s ta-rt own 44 when Sherry Billick fum- . U · · bled and an Engineer hopped on the ball. Five plays later, Lemke plunged over from the Union 2. Previous to this, .Don McFarland had cut off tackle and run 28 yards deep into Union territory. Cliff Platt and R.P.I.'s captain, I •on Hoppes exchanged punts and this was the only department in which the Dutchmen seemed to bt• faring better than their OPlJor,- ents. Then, like an avalanche, the Rensselaer attack rumbled and growled and moved steadily for 78 vards and the second touchdown. Young Lemke got this one, too, plunging over from 3 yards out. Red Killian's sweeping 27-yard 1 £verse following a bad Hoopes punt, brought the ball to the R.P.I. 18 and brought the Union stands up cheering. The cheering fell 11way to a groan. though, when a loose ball in the Union backfield was gobbled up by a Scarlet jersey. Rensselaer quickly dmve back on this break, and had just crossed midfield as the half ended. The Dutchmen came back in the (Continued on Page 4) Interested in Schenectady lnteresttd in UN!OJ\' MAURICE B. GRAUBART The Jay Street ]e'!L·eler 166 JAY STREET Watch and Je:;.oelry Repairi11g a Specialty PARKER & SHEAFFER PENS Tomorrow at 12:15 p. m. the play- off rounds of the annual intra- mural touch football tournament get underway with three games. Delta Upsilon, champion of League A, meets Chi Psi, second place team in League B on the south end of Library field. Phi Gamma Delta, champion of League B tangles with Kappa Sig- ma. second place team in League C. on the north end of Library field. Kappa Nu, titlist in League C. piays Beta Theta Pi, runner-up in League A, on the south end of Graduate Council field. -----10--- SATURDAY'S SPORTS SLATE Varsity football at Williams. Varsity cross-country at Williams. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality - Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Values -.....~.... ___ _ ...... \\-·• __ ...: ----- il-...,_ - --I-------- -..::1 __ M-------~--~~~~~~~ ~ r-- ------,-- • --,. __ %' r..::.-.!' ---- --- - ------ ~---- ----~ ·~= --- \1:':::.\'- - - -- lilmble. • • • • • Place Kick - - - A.W..S:-H. 10 Pun,.----- P•nai(Y xx. >< x Garnet Cross-Countrymen .Absorb Two Lacings From R. Po I. Harriers R. P. I.'s varsity cross-country team was supposed to be shot through with injuries when it came here Saturday to run Bill Ketz' harriers. Just what that makes the Union team is something else again, for R. P. I. hobbled off with a 24-31 victory. R. P. I.'s captain and two other lettermen were unable to run and the Dutch harriers went into the meet with a feeling that they might score their first win in three meets. Dick Gonly, Charley Snell and Bob Shepherd took an early lead, but were overtaken at about the two-mile mark by Bill Benefiel of R. P. I., who went on to win in the fast time of 27:46 for the 4.7 mile course. Bellevue Quality Bakery 2625 Broadway Phone 4-6248 BREAD - ROLLS - PASTRY For ''Better Milk'' Try Us Our Supply Comes from the Finest Dairy Farms Direct to Our Plant and Processed in Modern Stainless Steel Equipment YOU'LL LIKE THE FLAVOR LANSING•s DAIRY 215 N. Tenbroook St., Scotia, N. Y. Phone 6-7758 ~~~~~- -~---------- R. P. I. Frosh Come From Behind To Beat Cia1npa Mike Seppanen Wins Oaldeys and Glory In Coneordy Contest E'leven; 13 -11 A seventy-eight touchdown run by Rensselaer's George Cook in the fourth quarter of the game gave the R.P.I. Freshmen a 13-12 vic- tory over Al Ciampa's plucky yearling outfit Saturday. Cook's electrifying run, together with a thi·rd quarter R.P.I. score For the fourth time in five weeks and an extra point ·by MacCartney a resident of South College carried wiped out a lead forged by the -off honors (consisting of two free Garnet Cubs in the first half. tickets to Proctor's) in the Con- The Union team looked like win- cordy football contest. This time ners in the first half. After Johnny it's Mike Seppa:nen of 18 N.S.S.C. Short had intercepted ·an Engineer Seppanen had three wrong in 15 pass at mid-field in the opening games. Six entrants were right be- moments of play, he went all the hind him with four wrong,. but way to the 30 on a wide reverse. from_ there the contestants wer~ I Bob Everett picked up nine yards strung out way behind down to off tackle. The freshmen then Bob Reynolds of Chi Psi who had broke Short loose on another re- eight wrong. The sextet who had verse to the Rensselaer six-yard four wrong included Bob Panoff, marker. Bartlett then passed to J-ack Douglas, Oscar Kruesi, Evet·- Reggie Canon in the end zone for ett Schoonmaker, Andy Comrey the fi•eshmen's first touchdown of and Jim Smith. the year. Bartlett's kick for the Since nobody picked the score· extra point w<l;s low. of every game correctly, the prize I P.ass Misses for such accomplishment goes up Union drove back in the second to $160 this week. quarter and went to the R.P.I. Games in this week's contest are 31) in short order. Bartlett missed listed below. Entries must be in with one pass to the flat, then the Concordy mailbox on the first threw another touchdown strike, floor of Silliman hall by 10 o'clock this time to Tom Flynn, in the end Satm·day morning. zone. Kicker Bartlett again missed Army . . . . . . . . . Notre Dame . . his try for conversion. Boston Col.. . . . Templ<\ . . . . . . . R.P.I.'s first touchdown and extra c. c. N. Y. . . . Hobart . . . . . . . point made the score 12-7 midway Columbia. . . . . . cornell . . . . . . . through the third period. Then, Colgate . . . . . . . Holy Cross . . . I after Cook's long run, Union fought Dulte e........ Geor. Tech . . . . back, narrowly missing a touch- Harvard . . . . . . Princeton . . . . . down on a long pass, Bartlett to Hamilton . . . . . Swarthmore . . Flynn, which the latter dropped in Iowa .......... Indiana . . . . . . . t_h=e==c=l=ea=l=··===================== • l'llich. State . . . Missouri . . . . . . ,... Navy . . . . . . . . . Pennsylvania .. Minnesota . . . . N'western .... 01·eg•on . . . . . . . Wash. State .. Vermont . . . . . . R, P. ·L ..... Syracuse . . . . . . Wisconsin ..• , Namt' .......................... . Address ........................ . IDEAL BARBER SHOP 448 State Street -Just · 'ry One Haircut -Our Service is Ideal CLEANERS AND TAILORS UNITED SHOE REBUILDERS 114 State St. (Have Your Agent Call Us) Phone 4-5676 .: '. · ... . ' ~ ... ·, •.. ·~·;_;..:.i-;:J-;;>· ·<\\: .. :\ No Cramming Necessary! ['.j For swell flavor and l·~~-1 ·~-=- ----===--==---::::- :=:::::::::::==-:-::.~__:::;::::: __ _.=_;:;::::; __ -=----=--=--=-====~IF~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , r-----------------------------------------------i , , Printing real chewing fun-the ~:···1 : · . answer is delicious >~J ' r·.~ Wrigley's Spearmint Gum 1 ,~~ ' ;'1 ·<:.'1 \1\,--;:-:-c, •' _,.,.::~~~~> .~ ... . ·.iJ/ I ICE CREAM I : I I G p I One gallon of the very best Ice Cream! f azette · reS§ ! any flavor. Square package, easy to slice. l II I $1.35 Delivered - Simply Phone 6·1248 1 I I i Bellevue Dairy i I : '-----------------------~-----------------------~

Union Students Offered Roles In FM Playhouse Sheehan Selilds Request For Dramltltic Talent; Will Give AMditions A11 u!J!JUI tutut~ fc.t Cniun stu- dpnts intne,;ted in radio tltamatic:; wa~ nlatll' J·JUhlil' Yt'Sh•! d·1y \\'ht~n :\lynm :\1ill:;, '-12. ptt>sidPnt nf th<' Radio \\'orks'wp, announced the n•cl'ipt of a.n offer from John R. S!1Peilan. '25. n1anagcl' ·>f Gt>nPra.l Electt ic Ft t)qul•acy ~Iot~ulation ~ta­ tion W2XOY, to give intnested ,;tu- dt>ut~ a11ditions fer parts in the production of \\'2XOY's \F:\1 Play-' house.\ Sheehan st<rt<>Ll that at the p1 es-' pnt tinw \\'2XOY is in llt><'d of mpn fm· tlw pl:1yhous<' ca\ts. Intel psted l'nion ,;tudl'nts would gam V3.1u- able 1·aUio expt•riPnl'P, hP said. \Vhi:t• n._'l't>iVi·ng t~lt' l''tjuyillP'!lt uf wutlung with an t'XlJt>tit'lH't•d gloUp l•Jt attist.:;:.; . .:\ll'll l'lltt'lt'\tt:d !'\ohou!tl \\Tltl' u1 l'all ,tat'\n \Y:.:XOY ft:t au- Park Laundry Get your clothes in shape now for the Gridiron Ball. I 05 Clinton 4-90 II Tl:JESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1941 PHONE 4-5614 Everything Electrical JAS. F. BURNS ELECTRICAL WORKS 206 Clinton St. Schenectady Anything you need? Call GUERRA'S PHARMACY \WE DELIVER\ 600 Union St. Simply Phone 6-9419 You owe yourself a bottle If you don't know and how gloriously good bere can be. Enterprise 98 75 PHONES: Albany 4-5411 Troy 44 The Lee-ding Distributors GENERAL ADRIENNE AMES (star of stage, screen and radio) vhits many training camps in her job as Chairman of the Entertainment Com· mittee of the Home Legion. A carton of Chesterfields is a mighty welcome gift for the men in camp. 4 ~ Follow the lead of Adrienne Ames ancl sencl 1 the men in the camps the cigarette that's l Definitely MILDER ancl BETTER-TASTING -.,_ -~- ';;;;;;;;_':.f(!tf Everything about Chesterfield ~~\\''• is made for your pleasure and conve- ~~, nience •.. from their fine, rightly blended tobaccos to their easy-to-open cello- phane jacket that keeps Chesterfield always Fresher and Cooler-Smoking. Buy a pack and try them. You're sure to like them because the big thing that's pushing Chesterfield aheacl all over the country is the approval of smokers like yourself. EVERYWHERE YOU GO 1fer~h ' t v 0 :II r.

4 di- 't a hen curi- was the They .rans- in lots at- cur- like e, re- when fa·!- ormi- Hale Old that ph aSP phase has is oth- not rrent, said 6:00. . and Sophomores Attack Editorial Volume LXV. Number 15 . , . I·:tt:tor'al 4-0133 PllO:loO I·.S: Press 4·4141 • • Williams Entertains Dufchmen The Student Newspaper of Union College SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, OCTOB!ER 31, 1941 Price Sc Berg Scholarship Cu:p T oBe Awarded· Hoadley Points Out Many Proble1ns Entailed In Co-operative Buying Fox Announces Winter Concert Series For Benefit Of Scho.larship Fund ~------~----~~ r o:mor.row Morning CoUegiate G!roup Presentation To Be Made To Rankin9 F.-aterni-:-y By Dean in :Daily Assembly Dean Charles Garis wm present the Berg Cup to the fraternity which attained the highest schol- astic average during the academic year in daHy assembly tomorrow morning. Since the Berg Cup was firs~ award<!d in the aeademic yesr 1914-1915, by the l:J.te Professor Ernest Julius Berg, eight fiaterni- ties have already received perma- nent p.ossession of t11e cup, which ent<ils t!-J.e winnin3 of the cup for three consecutive years. First Aw!!rd in 1917 In 1917, the first cup was re- tired by the Pyramid Club, which Is now the chapter of Theta Delota Chi, who had won It three times. The Delta Phi fraternity was next to obtain permanent posse<:sion of E1e cup which scho'astic feat wa• accomplished only four years later in 1!;)20. Alpha Gamma Phi, now the Delta Chi fraternity, t•eceived the third scholarship award. This just preceded the new system insti- tuted in 1925 which based the gi·anting of the Berg Cup, not on yearly basis but for each semester's work. Delta Chi's were the first to come into possession of the cup un- der this system, that being its sec- ond successive cup. Delta Phi and Phi Sigma Kappa followed closely behind in the capturing of the cup and in 1931 the awarding of the cup was brought back to its orig- inal method .of presellJtation. The Kappa Nu fraternity has been able to achieve the highest ranking scholarship rating of any other fra- ternity for the six acade.nic years and has put away two CUI--? und'.r its wing, the only fratern!ty to nave retired the cup permanently since that time. Graduate Councilman Notes Lack of Courtesy Dear Editor: My visit to the campus Saturday· was in a measure marred by some bad mannered undergraduates who located themselves in a bunch of desirable reserved seats I had se- cured for a group of my fr:ends from out of town. When we presented our t:ckets to the usher, these boys paid no at- tention to his request to show their seat stubs, and it became necessary for us to threaten to call the police, before they grudingly removed themselves to their proper places in the stand. Six of them finally did so move, but two others en- tirely ignored the usher's request: and rather than create a scene the two late arrivals in my party found a. couple of vacant seats several rows back. In-cidentally the usher, I thought, might have shown more intestinal fortitude, instead of shrugging his shoulders, and .leaving it to us to enforce our rights. The bad manners are, :t appreci- ate, not the responsibility of the a-thletic departments, but I do feel that it ought to select as ushers students who are not afraid to see the job through. Sincerely, Graduate Council Member. 0 Trees to Beautify Middle Lane Sec:tion What is probably the only serious eyesore on the entire Union campus is now being effectively hidden as ground crew workers this week plant rows of evergreens and shrubs designed to hide the boiler house and coal pile behind Washburn Hall from view. The evergreens are being planted in a row extending from the rear of Washburn Hall to the inter- section of Mi.ddle Lane and South Lane. Thus the now unlovely view of the boiler house from the steps of Memorial Chapel will be cut off. Similarly, shrubs will hide the boiler house from the General Engineering building on the North Side of the campus. To Study Qp,inion Ovell\whelmil'lg Majority O~pese Neutrality Act Cflcl!lge, Shooting War In an effort to determine what ::Jpinions college students have on issues of the day, and what they are thinking about, the Student Opinbn Surveys of .America wH! :!or.duct pclls on various contro- ;erooiwl and significant is3ues from Ume to tirr.e. The Concordiensis is cooperating with this group in Jampling s!:udent opinion. Durin~; the past week, several Union College students were inter- viewed about their opinions of Jnited States national policy. The esults of these opinions were tabu- lated with those of thousands of \thers all over the country by the Stl'.dent Opinion Surveys of America. This non-profit organi- zation, with headquarters at the Ur.iversity of Texas, is a coopera- tive of 150 ccllege newspapers, in- ~luding the Con cor diensis, which CJj!ctange local opinions for the national tPbulations. Each poll i~ ma:thematicaHy controlled as to I sex, upper and lower classmen, working and non-working students, and geographical distribution in ?roportion to U. S. Office of Edu- cation enrollment statistics. The survey taken last week was the :irst taken this year and will b(' !:ollowed at periodic intervals for the remainder of the school year. Ma.,iority Opposes War T he nation-wide canvassing proved a majority of U. S. students to be overwhelmingly opposed to actual fighting in the war, .but shows an increasing pessimism as to the United States' ability to stay out of it. Unlike adults in the country, a majority of U. S. students are opposed to changing the neutrality law to allow supply ships to be armed and sent into the war zone. Interviewers, sam- pling a scientific cross section in every part of the nation, found only 42% in favor of revising the neutrality law as opposed to 51% 1gainst it and 7% undecided. Since 1939 the Surveys has chart- ed the campus trend of opinion -:>n the question, \Do you believe the U S. can stay out of war?\ In ~ach of the four polls taken opti-- mism has diminished. Believing we can stay out: pecember 1939 ........ 68% December 1940 ......... 63% February 1941 ......... 49% NOW, October 1941. .. .42% It is interesting to note the sec- tions in which students are less ir.clined to change the neutrality Jaw. Following are percentages of those favoring the change_ New England 52, Middle .Atlantic 49, East Central 23, West Central 32, Southern 56, Far· Western 39. Although the majority of U. S. college students are opposed to our entrance in the war, they are still in favor of supplying the Allies. Those interviewed were asked, \What do you believe is more important for the U. S. to try to do, declare war and use our fighting forces where needed or, tzy to stay out as long as possible and supply the nations fighting Hitler and Japan?\ The results were: Declare war and fight ......... 14% Stay out and supply .......... 79% Undecided . . ................. 7% Next week's Concordiensis will contain the results of student opin- ion concerning college athletics. It !s also cooperating with the Yale News in a survey taken about col- lege newspapers editorial policy. ---0 Year's First l-3ymn Sing The first hymn sing of the year will be held Sunday evening at 8.00 at the horne of Dr. and Mrs. Langsam. Judd p. Grey, '44, will be in charge. Exchange of lnforma-:.ion Among -House Managers Urged by Comptroller --~---------------------------- - ~ ---- . -- ~~ -------~~--~---~~ .Although a number of important problems will have to be solved before any highly organized com- munity buying plan will be sUC\ cessful here, immediate and im\ portant benefit can be obtained through the exchange of informa- tion by house managers and stewards, Mr. .Anthony Hoadley, comptroller, pointed out yesterday in an intet·view with an investiga- tor for The Concordiensis survey :f commodity buying problems at Union. Mr. Hoadley said that he feH J:at the importance of the Union ,·raternities in Schenectady was \a long way from the importance of the houses at .Amherst in their community,\ and that consequently a community b1:1ying project would ~ncounter greater difficulties here than it has there. Winter Concert Performers Jepson, Spalding, Robeson to Feature Musical Presentation; Tickets at Bookstore Three outstandin.g American mu- 1 sic artists will give concerts in 1 Memorial Chapel during the win- l ter, the proceeds of which will be 1 used to help as rna·ny as 10 stu- dents next year with additional I f:'cholarships, it was announced on I Wednesday by President Fox. The 1 artists include Paul Robeson, out- , standing negro baritone, Helen Jepson, coloratura soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Company, and , Albert Spalding, the leading Ameri- 1 can violin virtuoso. I · President Fox made an an- , nouncement in chapel on Thursday j morning concerning the concert . and 25 students made reservations Mr. Hoadley recalled the fate of the cooperative milk-buying plan ~et up by Professor Wilford H. Kctz some years ago. This plan was set in operation after a great deal of effort and investiga:tion of the part of Mt•. Ketz, only to be forced out of existence by the powerful milk-producers' unions in this area, Mr. Hoadley said. 1 -----------------: I or purchased tickets yesterday. HELEN JEPSON The idea for a concert of thie Conditions Differ \.Another factor to be considered i,; this,\ Mr. Hoadley said. \rhe defense boom may cause shortages h1 any number of fields. 'When shortages occur. the business men will give first choice to old, estab- !i&hed customers. This would seem to make any mass shifts of patron- age by the fraternities somewhat dangerous.\ Turning to the prcblem of what can be done, Mr. Hoadley, speaking from his own experience, outlined a plan of action similar to that which the workers In this investi- gation have concluded to be feasi- ble. \I have found in my dealings with men in similar positions at other schools that there is a great deal to be gained through discus- sion of mutual problems,\ Mr. Hoadley said. \There is a great deal of knowledge of successful economy techniques which many of us would not want to write or publish, for fear of offending some salesmen who might later be a valuable friend to the college. But most of us are quite willing to give our colleagues verbally any information they might want.\ Mr. Hoadley said he felt similar conferences among house managers or stewards would be of great benefit. This observation corrob- orates the conclusion of The Concordiensis' investigators, who found that most of the fraternities' losses could ·be avoided if the buyer for the house knew how other houses obtained the products in question. PAUL ROBESON -· ---~----- .. ~- -------~ Pyramid Council To Sponsor Party Neutral Ge~·Together Scheduled in Hanna Hall Tomorrow Night at 8:30 Non-frateurnity men will socialize I in Hanna Hall at a beer party to- I morrow evening beginning at 8:30 1 1. p. m. accor.ding to Oliver Steiger- walt, '42, who was placed in charge I '· of the party by the Pyramid Coun- cil, neutral executive body. Soft drinks have been ordered to dampen the whistles of teetotalers while a half keg will be available for more intrepid souls, Steigerwalt I said. Gordon Rust and Richard Russ v;ill be faculty supervisors of the party while all other dormitory proctors have been invited to at- tend. .Admission for students will be only on ptesentation of dues certifi- cation cards to the Neutral Social Fund which finances the party. These cards may be obtained from any Pyramid Council member or neutral class committeeman. The Pyramid Council will soon circulate a petition among regular diners in Hale House to close Hale House for the luncheon preceeding the Hamilton game. Comptroller .Anthony Hoadley has agreed to turn the payments made on these luncheons over to the Neutral So- cial Fund if the petition is unani- mous. Neutrals at a recent business meeting voted to request this ac- tion. ALBERT SPALDING Photographic Agency at Ball Continuing its policy of innova- tions for this year's Gridiron Ball, the Interfraternity Council an- nounced yesterday that a picture- taking booth would be ma·intained upstairs in the gymnasium on the night of the Ball. Couples will be \mugged\ for the small price· of fifty cents, according to Fred Wik- off, Council chairman. He indicated that the Council's expectations were that this year's feature would prove popular among Ball-goers. This Is Not Part of the Gazette Want Ad Campaign John Poole, '42, member of the Executive Committee of the Ball, announced that drawings for Grid- iron Ball fraternity booths will be made at 1 p. m. tomorrow. Phi Delts Try Gazette Want Ads To Get 'Mac• Larios Gridiron Date IIA:'\DSO~l~~ yrung- man w'~hes a~·>--------------------------­ rlatP for Unioro Gridiron Ball. :-iov. 8. Call 'Mae' hP.tween 6:30 a!Hi 10:30 p. m. at 4-12-14. Do Gazette classified ads have more drawing power than those appearin·g in the Union Star? .Are there more wishful young ladies in Schenectady wanting dates for a Union dance? How many calls will 'Mac' get? Will he get a date? These and other questi.ons of vi- tal importance will be answered in the Concordiensis next Tuesday when the results of the above ad- vertisement have been capitulated. .And here's the story of how Pbi Delta Theta, unofficial cupid, un- official investigator of advertising effectiveness, will provide the an- swers to these questions. Last year helpful members of the Phi Delt house ran a classfied ad- vertisement in the Schenectady Union-Star, in an effort to get Don Slatterly a date. Of course, Slat- terly already had a date, but that was immaterial. The Union-Star ad brought 130 telephone calls, three colleot tele- grams, stories in at least 94 differ- ent newspapers as far distant as Miami, Florida, and an .Associated Press interview and immeasurable domestic difficulties for \Slats.\ This yea:r the classified advertis- ing managet• of the Union-Star, conservative soul that he must be, refused to take the above-quoted ad. The Phi Delts inserted it in the Gazette instead, for three days, be- ginning this morning. Now, ye aide Gazette has been plugging its classified department on its front pages these days as be- ing a thing of joy to the advertiser. At last the question that is rocking conservative old Schenectady will be answered, Can the Gazette get more response· than the Union-Star did? Will Larios get a date? Read Tuesday's Concordiensis and find out. ---0,--- Dal'ice Tomo.-row Night Union College students are in- vited to a Union Football Dance to be held at Williams next Saturday night. Music, furnished by the Wil- liams Purple Knights, will be play- ed from 9:00\12:00. Admission is $1.10 a couple. ---0--- 94th Anniversary Marked By Theta Delta Chi•s In Banquet at Golf Club The Union Chapter of Theta Delta Chi marked the 94th anniver- sary of the founding of the society Tuesday night with a banquet at the Mohawk Golf Club. High fra- ternity officials were present as principal speakers, and over 40 graduate members as well as the undergraduate body of the local chapter were in attendance. National President Charles Rum- rill. of Rochester, and Norman Hac- kett, Secretary of the nation-wide organization, and Oliver Guthrie, Editor of the fraternity's magazine addressed the assembly, which in- cluded representatives of 11 differ- ent colleges. The fraternity was founded at Union in 1847. It flourished here and spread to other colleges until 1867, when, because of difficulties caused by the Civil War, the Union chapter went inactiv.e. It was not until 1923, in fact, that the Union charter was renewed. It was in that year that the then-existing Pyr.amid Club's application to take ovet· the chat·ter waa granted. I nature is not new. The Student Council in 1938 under the leader- ship of David Yunich, '38, discussed I the possibilities of holding suoh a :series, but the ma:tter was dropped. 1 Late this summer the idea was I brought to life again by President and Mrs. Fox, and their efforts I were repaid by finally securing I these three outstanding artists. In his announcement in daily assem- bly, Dr. Fox referred to the fact that Union's opportunities were \ limited whereas ot.her colleges like i Williams and Colgate had these same opportunities. \ Three hundred student tickets I have been placed on sale in the Bookstore at $1.65 per series. Reg- ular tickets are priced at $3.30 and $3.85. Concert Committee .Arrangements for the sale of tickets is in the hands of a com- mittee headed by Mrs. Anthony Hoadley . .Also serving on the com- mittee with her are President and Mrs. Fox, Mrs. Charles B. Hurd, Dr. Egbert Bacon, Dr. James Dunn, President of the Schenectady Alumni Association, and Mr. Hoad- ley. Art work and posters will be in charge of Mrs. Augustus Fox, and Mr. Roberts o! the News Bu- reau will be in charge of publicity. The dates for the Individual con- certs are January 16, Paul Robe- son; February 6, Helen Jepson; and March 20 .Albert Spalding. The Glee Club will assist Mr. Robeson in numbers requiring a chorus, and an added attraction wilt be the appearance of Clara Rockmore who will play the elec- tric therirnirt. Robeson is a graduate of Rut- gers University where he received all-American honors in football. He also won letters in basketball, track, and baseball. In his junior yea:r at college he was elected to Phi Eeta E:a,ppa. a_~ made hi~> mu- sical debut in \Emperor Jones. Miss Jepson studied at the Cur- tis Institute for three years, where she was a scholarship ho'lder. She . has sung with the Chicago Grand Opera Company and various Phil~ adelphia groups, besides her yearly concerts and radio appearances and engagements at the Metropoli- tan Opera Company, where she is a leading soprano. Albert Spalding carne from a family rich with mu- sical tradition. He is considered one of the finest violin vortuosos in the world today. He has appeared on the concert platform the world over, and he plays 60-90 concerts a year in .America alone. 0 Requests Accepted For Record Conc:erts James Stillman, '42, in charge of the weekly record concerts given every Tuesday afternoon in Mem- orial Chapel, has recently repeated his initial announcement that the programs to be given throughout the year will be of an \all request\ nature. Next week's program will consist largely of the works of Moussorgsky and other Russian composers, but requests will be re- ceived at all times in the music room in the basement of Memorial Chapel.

il}t Gnurnr~tett.ai.a FRIDAY. ocrooER 31, 1941 ED.ITORIAL 2 ~1ember of the Associated Collegiate Press alld dt~­ tr• butur of the Collegiatt Digt:.:t H.ept'esenteu fur :\'atlonal _o\..t.J.v~rti.:::tng Ly ~auuual AU verti:::Hng o::;et \-- le\· ll•c. College Publi>P· er:: l~qne~~ntatl\'t, 4:.!L- 01nnrur (The following edib0l'i.a1 is reprinted· from \The Skidmore News'' dated Wednesday, October 22, 1941, and was titled \Finis Neurosis. Directly following it are two of the numerous letters written to the \News\, printed here by permission of their authors.) Nho d!d succeed in ma-triculating n schools on a par with our own, Ne have •been wasting our tirr.e ca- ~ering to ?. mass of ingt a tes-the !hildi·en of a recent slum n:ove- .nent that ·had its beginninc s in 1922 in a racetrack community at ·.he dormant seas:Jn of the year. ~ladiBon Avenue. );e\\ Yurli Cit). \.I Causa Per sa Paruh .1 ssa:·· P:•inor!al Office. Stllima:n Hall. Cmon Colleg·e. Pub- iieatiun Off.ce. The Ua- z.ene: 1 1 res:::, 334 .State St. EI,tt;-.;1'td 111 tne :Sunellt::.'f ... - ta,.:-.· 1-'u.:::t OfJ.'ke u..s Se<.·- ond Cla5\ O.laii O.latter. ~UU\!l'll}Jtloll ~l: J. ·l'U'PY; $:.; y~ar; delivered anywhere :t. tn<: Cttltd State~. \The fact that Union sent more representatives to AU-College dance than did any other men's coHege proves conclusively something ver:,. unimportant . It is star~ling to find oneself, wen for a moment, brought to a :ontemplation of a comparison bc- :ween UNION and nouvere Skid- .nore. My dear naive litt:e girl- Editor, if the delusi\on E.1akes your oim-pie heart happy-please try !·or yo~i· own sake to arrive at an adult :ealizaton of the fact that printed Nidence of such absurd nature .as ,our unfortunate elfort :s bound to Je r:egurgitated right back at or ·On :ts soarce. God! ~~uiur Bua.rd Armnltfl \\. 'l'PfgenUuum ..... . . . . . . r.;app:~ .\u Ill~u~~-~-7~31 .............. , , •....•..... I·:ultor-ln-Chlef \It proves that their \weekday-date-only-complex\ is an unf0unded psychoneurosis, or else that the boys from the south have finally madE the grade. Emphasizing the second reason, we congratulate them. lu .... ul lJ{'''!!'v .• : ..• , ..... , .... . . , , .. 1-..~, •I', ~\' i1cU ... t--4-i;.!:a , , , . , , , . , ,, ,, , .... , ,. , , , lJU..,illeSS )lunag.el' 1~ .'·li1 ()'l. ~ ... dilllt, 'l·: :1 Cllh.g· · t.. ::u~b .................. )luuaglng Editor :SuliJIII nr· 1 -leLi•.:tal ••..•.... r •. , tlitun PP .. ·•· •...•...... :-::;..:.nt .... Pt •. !•b.tt---~-U8:!1 , ...................... , ..•.. bport~ Editor :Sttl-.!Ul!ll'Uithl',' ..•........••............ t\.~q.JJ. 1 a .:\u !lt-u.:;~::--!~7~:31 .•...................•..•• As~ociate Editor Junlur llo:tro.l-l:ube~t I!a~·uer, Thullt..L> O\Cutlllur. Har- vey FbH'butH:', J aL·l: ;:;L·nulz. GI :tng:t:r T1 ill!J. :-\urrnait Fox . .Staff l 1 lwtog!.;;q>t1t->1'. Sonhomun• Board-- Thnm:..• Cuilet;, \\\illiam Hart. AI· be it I~rontck, EU\\ :nt.l Johnsou. :5eymuur Thtcl\.tn.:ln. Busine\ Staff- :.\ldville :'llessenger, Da\'ld Rosenblum. :\larYin Ct anH~r. I-'ll~ EtlHor ............................. IWllert Hayner .\ '-~\'l ... tnnt,., ...•... Har·vyt· ·FJ::-.!lbuu~:>, ~t>Ylll«•Ul' Th'h:l<maH .,.,., It almost makes us .feel that the eighteenth century idea of vi-rtue rewarded isn't just so much sentimentalism. The sign-up list for AH- CoHege read like a Horatio Alger success story as far as Union repre- sentation is concerned, and we're glad to know that they're being in- vited to Skidmore dances, and a:ren't just weekday pain killers. Yours all too tolerantly, Charity. Friday, October 31, 1941 \Of course, this dance was a small one, attended principa1ly by fresh- men and sophomores, but Union has a foothold, and anything can happen now.\ ---01--- Want High Sehooi Color? 'lrerraee, Pleasant Game On Alexander field Free TOWN, GOWN-AND STUDENTS, TOO Students Shower Snappy Statements Upon Sharp, Sassy Skid«tore Script L0oking for the Fountain of Youth? Tired of college? Want all the color of a highschocl foot- ball game? Back in 1938, certain students, among them Student Council Chairman David Yun- ich and Herbert F0x, came to feel that it would be highly desirable for the college to present in recital a series of eminent concert artists. The talent of these artists was to be made available not only to the college com- 1nunity, but to re::;idents of Schenectady and ::,,n 1 mnding locale as well. Like most \good ideas\ which requil·e long Lerm planning and unusual good fortune for their institution, this concel't series did not become an immediate reality. Administration and students did not forget their idea, how- ever; the long term planning was developed and a stroke of good fortune brought about by one of the students, who went into the field of music, made the hopes fact three years later. Helen Jepson, Paul Robeson, and Albert Spalding are prizes for any concert series; when they are made available to students in a scholarship fund concert for an average of fifty cents per concert, their presentation becomes an opportunity that is amazingly good. For the community, too, the chance to see and hear these artists for three dollars and fifty cents is one that will not be missed by many. It is this latter opportunity which requires as much as the former, since it is indicative of a trend in the Union of the past few years: combining two of the major purposes of college by presenting opportunity to stu- dents in conjunction with acting as one of the cultural foci of the community withoat. Union has felt its obligation to the com- munities surrounding it keenly and the ac- tions of its administration in the past few years have demonstrated how well it has ful- filled that obligation. The college has been more than generous in the loan of its campus facilities to educationa:l groups; it has per- mitted organizations unable to secure any other suitable hall for speakers and meeting the use of Memorial Chapel; it has become more and more active in the field of adult education. Becoming increasingly apparent is the fact that the college has taken more than a pas- sive interest in the cultural life of Schenec- tady and the surrounding locale and equally apparent in recent yea1·s that Schenectady has appreciated this interest and that the college has become a better place because of it. The concert series of Jepson, Robeson, and Spalding is really more, therefore, than the presentation to the student body of oppor- tunity to hear great artists for the benefit of a scholarship fund: it marks another step in the increasingly happy college-community relationship between Union and Schenectady. It marks, too, another step in the direction of the college's becoming the cultural focus of this entire vicinity. And what more fit- ting than to have this function assumed by the oldest college in the area, one that has, by its interest, demonstrated its appreciation of the import of the college's place in the cul- tural life of the modern world. Union College~·-------------­ Schenectady, N. Y. To the Editor of the October 28, 1941 Skidm0re News: It is both interesting and gratify- It is both interesting and gl1atify. ing to learn that Union has finally. i.ng to note that the Union boy~ made the grade. have finall~ rn1'.de the grade; However, we feel it our solemn duty to inform the News editorial cltaff of a few points, which 0bvi- ously have escaped their attention. P0int 1: Union College was a re- putaJble institution of learning and culture precisely one hundred and thirty years before several socially ambitious people gathered in the cheaper sections of a race track town for the express purpose of converting a number of vacant boarding houses into a haven for those poor unfortunates who c0uld not make the grade (that term again) in VasEar, Smith, or any of our better women's colleges. Point 2: Any comparison of the two colleges seems hardly neces- sary. Anyone at all acquainted with the situation would know that Skidmore's only approach to the 1 beauty found here in sc·henectad:y lies in its Library, and ironically enough, that was built of Union tinfoil. The campus, the faculty, and the graduates in world affairs, speak for themselves when con- trasted with om· sisterly neighbor. Why dote any long on so obvious a point. At the same time. however, it ic somewhat disillusioHing to discovez that the social welfare work which we of New York's second oldes~ and mo~t traditional c01legiate in stitution have been conducting (or. evenings when affairs of impor- tance failed to call us elsewhere) among the reconverted boardin~; houses of SarattJga has failed to a:- tain the grateful appreciation it sc duly merits. It is a source of much melancholy to us young men of one of the country's mcst esteemed col- leges to observe that, at times when we might have been fo:Iowing our callings toward that pleasant end of consorting with the young ladies ENEMY TANKS ADVANCING ON BRIDGEHEAD The Concordiensis recommends ,he Nott Terrace-Mont Pleasant .iootball game on Tuesday, Election Day, as the prescription for all the above Hls. Athletic cards will ·admit students free Six thousand, five hundred per·- Jons includiHg stucents from high schools, the coNege, and towns- people, a·re ex_;:1ected to jam pack che stands. The .game, which has bPen traditionally played on neutral Alexander field, was of necessity transferred to Mont Pleasant last year. Jason Tepper, '42, an alumnus of Nett Terrace, has praised the game as being the most colorful of all high school games. \You can heat· the cheering way out OTh the Troy Road,\ he said and then ventureu to p1 edict that three out of four Terrace girls will we:n· blue or white sweaters while a large per- centage will weal red and white sweaters. AND THE WASTE GOES ON Point 3: We now approach the social. First of all, we wonder if any of the Skidmore New's editor- ial staff has ever heen to Union, and if so, has ever stopped to re- flect on the warm welcome a guest receives in any one of our seven- teen fraternities. If they had, ~uch a scathing editorial would hardly have been possible, for they could not have helped noticing the differ- ence between this welcome and the ·inquiring eyes of a lantern-jawed house mother. This hired woman, .seeing that you mean no harm, sinks back to her \Thrilling Love Stories\ and leaves you to sit alone until your young lady sees fit to come down and relieve the mon- otony. In conjunction with The Concordiensis' in- vestigation of commodity prices paid by Union fratr''i1ities, we have been pPrusing old PXC]I,U tg'P vOpie:; Of Undel'graduate neWS- papCl'S for the purpose of unearthing original comment on commodity cooperation plans in- stituted at other colleges. One of these plans originated at Middle- bury some time ago-was outlined in this column earlier. Another, gleaned from a Williams Record of January, 1940, casts fur- ther light on the accomplishments of com- modity cooperation at other institutions: The story in tile Record pointed out that the average fraternity cost at Williams was $165 higher per student than the average at Amherst and attributes a large portion of the disparity to the cooperative buying plan that Amherst had adopted: \Explanation of the relatively low cost of board at Amherst is found in the co- operative buying- plan which the fraterni- ties there have adopted. Under the plan, •v·'·'h house appoints an undergraduate steward whose duty, quite removed from those of the fraternity treasurer, is to pur- chase the food supplies for his fraternity through the stewards' department, formed of the thirteen undergraduate stewards. This department is able to purchase large quantities of staple foodstuffs and com- modities at greatly reduced prices because of the size of its orders, and the saving is enjoyed by each fraternity member.\ It must be kept in mind throughout that while it is worthwhile, up to a point, to draw an analogy between Union and Middlebury or Union and Amherst, it can be worthwhile only up to a certain point. Union, in a fairly large city, has not an economic surrounding similar to that of Amherst, nor yet that of .i\liddlebury. The fact does remain, however, that other small colleges have instituted systems of community buying which have been highly successful and there seems much room in the Union scene for moves that are somewhat comparable. As was pointed out last week by Comp- troller Hoadley, who has taken a vital inter-· est in the problem, the new Interfraternity Council might do well to consider commodity cooperation after it has completed testing its. wings on the Gridiron Ball. GUEST EDITORIAL WRITERS Since one of the major functions of a stu- dent newspaper is the presentation of stu- dent opinion, we are happy to announce the institutions of a policy which will enable The Concordiensis to accomplish that function more effectively. At periodic intervals guest editorial writ- ers, drawn from the college community, will be asked to write for this column. The sub- ject to be treated will be entirely at the dis- cretion of the editorial writer. Raymond Aldrich, '42, will be the first guest in the series which is to begin Tuesday, November 4. Point 4: Union means much more than a week-night pain killer to Skidrr.ore. On practically every Saturday night of the year you will find Union men outnumbering those of all other colleges by at lea::t two to one. Without our sup- port such places of merriment as Pete's, King's, and the Colonial would have about as much life as is to be found in the Saratoga graveyard, and a college with fair- ly liberal rules would take on all the aspects of a convent. These four points are but a few indications that some little girl in Saratoga is putting the cart before the horse. Rather it is Skidmore who should attempt this grade climbing and such scornful feeling as is expressed above is but an ex- ample of an ungrateful child who bites the hand that feeds it. A vee hauteur, Joe Union, '43 RHUMBA with CUGAT on Columbia Records to • CACHITA • LA COMPARSO and many others at Cluett & Sons 508 State Sf. You've got to be good for the Signal Corps d equipment- for Th at goes fol: both ro~n ~n may make the l rounlcauons dependab e com . t r and defeat. difference between VIC. o Y d delivering or· Gathering inforroat~o~;: . ob of the field ders in a flash-thats d ru~ged these tele• tel ephone. Compact an d and ~any other h thousan ·- ·hones by t e . tion apparatus- P f oromumca b special types od c d for the armed forces y are being pro ~ce Western ElectriC· . as manufacturer' Our 60 years~ e~p~~e~~; for the Bell Sys- purchaser, and tlst~ u all this special work telll fits us to an. e -to step up our prod and- at the satnTeltl~e ne apparatus to spee 'ono£13ell e ep o ~~t~hole defense progralll· I p ( II in. fo va te: co liD it a.r U!= ·op th gr po Tl ab P1 20 bl: ex i<l th an be gt: Pl Se at Sc H• B~ ba qt: ha H: w si1 cl:: st y, to en Cl D Sl W< ro dl B• of dJ tl: R er br p.

ca- in at self, a be- kid- I· or .as d to r ·On ly, ty. of foot- the will pel·- high pack has utral last of all hear Troy four at· per- 3 SPORTS IT'S- WILLIAMS TOMORROW Purple F~avo·red ·Ove:r Dutchmen ln Three Events Cleveland Ram Scouts Poll Union Seniors On Football Careers Psi Upsilon's lightly regarded athletes surprised us a:ll by nos- ing out Delta Upsilon's battered warriors and win the intramural ~ootball field meet with a total o.f 75 points. The D.U.'s were second wHh 74.277, followed by Beta Theta Pi with 73.550. Phi Gamma pe!ta had to be content with fourth and 67.018 .points. Delta Phi was fifth with 62.663, Kappa Alpha sixth with 53.953, Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Chi tied for seventh with 51.775, South College eighth with 34.355, Sigma Chi ninth with 34.<!~. Phi Delta Theta tenth with 19.598 and the others strung out 'behind. Individual winners 1'oHow: Freshman Eleven Seeks First Win A.gainst Hamilton Cubs Tomorrozv Passing for distance-Stan Davis, Alpha ,Delta Phi·, first, 109 yards; Bob Cooch, Delta Upsilon, second, 105 yards; Hamilton·, Sigma Chi, third, 98 yards; Ed Allen, Delta Up- silon, fourth, 96l!z yards and Al't Torrey, Phi Gamma Delta, fifth, 95 yards. Professor Ciampa's freshman <!>•>--------- football team renews its efforts to\ 5 • • bt eak into the win column tomor- Wlmmmg row ~fternoon when it engages the Hold First Hamilton freshmen on Alexander Candidates Meeting Kicking for accuracy-George Coley, ;Delta Chi, ~irst, 13 yards off; Steffie, Delta Phi, second, 15 yards off; Porter Stiles, Kappa Alpha, third 16 yards off; Bob Acker, Phi Delta Theta, fourth 19 yards off, and Wally Knapp, Sigma Chi, fifth, 21 yards off. field. The game will start at 2 o'clock and has all the earmarks of developing into a nip and tuck battle. In the first place, it will be the first game in history between Union and Hamilton freshman football teams. Then, it looks like a toss-up because Hamilton claims tc- have a good backfield and light, inexperienced line, :while the Ciampa men have a heavy veteran line backed up by a light, com- paratively inexperienced ·backfield. Cubs Confident Walloped, 26-2 by Middlebury's freshmen, and nosed out 13-12, by the R.P.I. yearlings, the Garnet cubs feel it's about time to chalk one up on the right side of the ledger. To put it mildly they are confident of victory. Coach Ciampa wil start the same lineup which began the R.P.I. game last week. Ed Bates and \Bud\ Taylor will be the ends; Hal Fox Swimming captain Harold Hen- drickson got the ball rolling for the coming tank season Wednesday night when he met a group of candidates in the trophy room of the gymnasium. The turnout was not encouraging, but more mea are expected to report later. Hendrickson said he expects Coach Joe Wheatley to be on hand some time next week and that regular practice will start Novem- ber 10. He urged all students with experience or interest in the sport to report as soon as possible to himself or Manager Warren Per- kins. Perkins may be contacted at Kappa Sigma. Hendrickson's South College phone is 6-9728. Four meets have been scheduled for the varsity swimmers. They include tests with Syracuse, Trin- ity, R.P.I. and Rochester. See You at Williamstown 2 P. M. TOMORROW! Placekicking for distance-Ned Reilly, Beta Theta Pi, and Marve Epstein, Phi Sigma Delta, tied for first, 95 yards; Joe Mudge, Beta Theta Pi, third, 8~ yards; Don Beal, Psi Upsilon, fourth, 86 yards, and Bob Nothacker, Delta Phi, fifth 85 yards. Field goal kicking - Timpson, Kappa Alpha, Roy Webster, Delta Phi, J. F. Ryan, Phi Delta Theta, Reilly, B.T.P., Wallace MacMillan, Phi Gamma Delta and Coach, D.U., tied, all with four goals. Punting for d!stance-Schaffer, Psi Upsilon, first, 91 yards, nnd MacMillan, Jim Tracy and Bob Gillie, Phi Gamma ,Delta, tied with Grace, Psi Upsilon, Beale, Psi Up- silon and Allen, D.U., for second place, 87 yards. (Continued on Page 4) and Don Carstens will start as ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;~~ tackles; Maxie Slee and Chet Mar- f vin will be the guards and Bob WST Mendelson or Johnny Ford will Levc.o wrist watch-Brown leath-~ center. The backfield will consist er :;;trap, gold filled. Lost on Li- of Reggie Carroll, Bob Lange, brary field between 1 and 2:30 Johnny Short and Bill Tunstall or p.m. Oct. 22, 1941. Frank Salamone, Bob Bartlett. Call Ball and PHONE 6-3456 Ball Will Call WATCH AND JEWELRY REPAIRING- ENGRAVING JAY JEWELRY co. CORNER STATE and CENTER STREETS ~ lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll1 § ; = RHAPSODY IN BLUE = = = = = E§ Played by E = = ~ Andre Kostelanetz ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - 5 with § = = = = 5 5 § Alec Templeton as Soloist § = = = = - - ~ $2.63 § = = = = = = = = - - - - = = = = = = = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = = ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllii HAVE YOU TASTED • • DOBLER P. 0. N. BEER andALE The shirt that's All-American every year The on~ shirt that remains a national favorite year~in, year-out is the white shirt. It's always appropriate, neat, and becoming. Be sure you have enough whites-and be sure they're Arrows. No finer white shirts are made. We suggest Arrow Hitt, with a non-wilt collar, Arrow Gordon, a sporty oxford, and Arrow Trump with a long-wearing soft collar. Each is $2. Arrows are Sanforized-Shrunk, Iabrie shrinkage less than 1 %! FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1941 Perhaps there's some significance in the remark Wednesday night of ~ loyal alumnus who has seen nearly every scrimmage of the Union team this fall. \Why they've got more snap and power out there tonight than they've shown in any practice this season,\ he declared. This showing by the team is a bit amazing in view of the harrow- ing r·out at the hands of R. P. I. last Saturday, but it may indicate that our Dutchmen are on the re- bound. If so, look for some funny things to happen at Williamstown tomorrow afternoon. When they play as well as they are able and get their share of the breaks, the Unions are a pretty tough combination for any team to handle, * * Speaking of breaks, had you noticed the tough jolt Hobart's football team just received? The Statesmen's ace fullback, Jack O'Shea, was inducted inflo the draft army Monday. While Ho- bart's remaining opponents, C. C. N. Y., Buffalo and Rochester, are doubtless breathing a lot eas- ier, we can't help complaining that O'Shea should have been re- moved f:rom Hob!l.rt's grid pic- ture long ago. He totaled 183 yards l'lffining through Union's line, scored one touchdown on a 23-yard run and passed for the other score. In other words, he is directly responsible for on€' of those four defeats marring the Union record. * * Betty Grable donated a trophy to the University of Vermont football team recently. The Catamounts walked off with the award by vir- tue of their 28-13 victory over the Montreal Bulldogs in an exhibition football game at Montreal two weeks ago. Proceeds of the game went to the Royal Canadian Air Force Benevolent Fund. * * It was pretty certain that Jack- pot would provol•e some sort of reaction .ft•om R. ·P. I. soonel' or later with his oc<'asional digs at the Engineers. Sure enough he did. Witness the following state- mt\nt in the R. P. I. student paper: \Union's school paper stated last Wt\t\l{ that they (the Dutch- ml'>n) were unfortunate this year in being rated down among such tf•ams as R. P. I., but it would seem that by now R. P. I. may have risen from the rlepths.\ And now we'll all pause for a momPnt of silP.nce in honor of thE\ victoi'S . . . o. k. Union'? But we still don't lilm the com- pany we were kePping. Typical remark of awe-struck R P. I. students captured last Fri- day night was \Boy what a swell campus you have. I never realized it.\ And that makes us feel a lot bet- ter too. * • • Funny things are always hap- pening to the cross-country team. Did you notice that last week the boys' finish against R. P, I. was exactly the reverse of their finish in Wednt>sday's time trial? In practice the finish was Shepherd, Conly, Viglilemo and Snell. Against R. P. I. they fin- ished Snell, Viglielmo, Conly and Shepherd. What'll it be this week boys? ~ * * Swarthmore College may resume athletics, including football this week-end, after a two-week layoff because of an infantile paralysis quarantine, Sports in general were suspended when Barton Jenks, sophomore lineman on the football team, was stricken with paralysis of both legs after a game with American International on October 11. Pr·esident John Nason of Swarth- more explainned the action by pointing out that violent physical activity weakens resistance to pa- ralysis. A \MUST\ In Saratoga with Union Men and their Dates THE INN Featuring 11 0AVE'• at the Piano Playing your requests JOHNNY PARRISH, Prop. CAROLINE ST. White is All-American! Crisp and smart as a football day in October are Arrow white shirts, correct with any suit. These three are favored by college men: ARROW HULL: fine broadcloth with the new low neckband. $2. ARROW GORDON: fine oxford for all-round wear. $2. ARROW HITT: the shirt with the perennially fresh collar. $2. Stock up on Arrow whites today!

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1941 GENERAL 4 Campus Chest Will Aid Boys' Club Football Contes1· Five Other Organizations Are \Earmarked\ for Help In November Chest Drive <®---~ ---- --~ -------- ' Takt>n for Grantt>d Dr. Burges Johnson, president of the Boys' Club for the past two yt-ats has :pointed out: \In most in- dustrial cities throughout the coun- try a Boys' Club is taken for granted. In their crowded districts the first problem is what to do about the small boy who finds that tt:e street is his natural and some- times his only playground. I as- sumed when l carne to Schenectady that the Boys' Club was a going concern, ranking in importance and recognition with all other necessary kinds of welfare wo1 k. I found that it certainly was a going con- cern after two or three years of existence, but going under its own steam. kept alive by the zeal of one zPalous young man and a group ,,f !·Llen;_tq v h•) had rallied a~l>Und hilT!. B:..t T found, too, tLat it could not \\ll•p PVen if it \'.mid bPcause of the demand of the youngsters themselves, who were overcrowding its pathetically in- adequate club house. \Two years ago the board of di- rectors of the Boys' Club made a public appeal. They asked fot money enough to run the club de- cently for a year, and were given a sum by the public that with careful management has lasted for two years. This last cent will be spent by February 1. \But when that first appeal was made to the public two years ago, the directors were astonished by the response. Every one wanted to be recorded as a friend. The children's comt judge testified that in the neighborhood of the club, juvenile delinquency had been greatly reduced. The police com- TSCHAIKOWSKY Concerto No. I in B Flat Minor Horowitz, T oscanini NBC Symphony VICTOR RECORDS The Heart of the Piano Concerto VICTOR RECORDS CASSIDY'S RECORD DEPT. Free Delivery Phone 4-7445 Pleasant Valley Food Market • OUR MOTTO \Quality- Service Satisfaction • 598 B'way-For Better Vafues missioner said that arrests in that neighborhood from malicious mis- chief had almost been wiped out, and he became a director of the club. \So it seems to me that a Boys' club is a p10per investment of a citizen's interest and support. We spend a lot of money to take care of the automobile traffic that is over-crowding our streets in this time of swollen defense industry, we ough to take equal care of the under-privi!Pged youngsters who nre rrowding the sidewalks and mer-flowing into the streets. \Our board of directors includes a good proportion of shrewd busi- nessmen. They are not asking money for an ornate or extra va- gant plaything. They are asking enough to pay for a piece of land in the most needy neighborhood, a club house that does not call for structural steel, and will take care of 1,200 boys, money to furnish the place adequately for indoor ana outdoor sports. a library and work sho.ps, and funds for at lea..st two years of maintenance. \When the building is finished the boys off the streets who use it will think of it as their own; and when it is in full operation, I hope that it may be taken under the sheltering wing of the Community Chest.\ MODERN DINER Cor. ALBANY and VEEDER GOOD SHOES Since 1893 X-RAY FITTING PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Gazette Press Printing ~···············································~ 5 CREAM-CREST 5 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • II: : • • • • ~: Vitamin D Milk 5 • • • h • • Supplies that needed energy for t e • • • • coming winter months. • • • • • 1 5 GENERAL ICE CREAM CORP. ! • • • For Service Phone 4-3121 : ~ ............................................•. ~ Pleasant Valley Meat Market House of Sunshine Meat Products 586-592 Broadway PHONE 4-3181-2-3-4 (ContiNued from Page 3) Either Chi Psi. Kappa Nu or Ph! '1:J.mrr:a Delta will be the intramu· al touch football champion thiE fa!!. A!l three emerged victorlour :rom yesterday's opening .pJayof! round. Phi Gamma Delta trampled ttc· Theta Delts, 13~0. Chi Psi foun( things a bit tougher as it snatched a 6-0 victory ft om Delta Upsilon b) virtue of Bob Groun·dwater's touch down on a 25-yard romp with ar. intercepted pass. This game was disputed, as the D. U.'s scored a touchdown, which was nullified be- cause a time out had been called by the Chi Psis. Ka;lpa Nu pulled a last minute pass interception out of the hat to turn back Beta Theta Pi. With sec- onds remaining in an overtime period, the Betas held a small yard FLOWERSr! Frosh Harriers Lose Space limitations preventf•d the account of last Saturday's Un'on- R. P. I. freshman cross-country 'lleet from making the sports page. 'J'or t:J.e sake of the record here is the order of lineup: Hartley, (R); Harding, (R); Quinlan, <Ul: Berkowitz, (R): Van Velson, (R); Dailey, (R); Middle- miss, <Ul: Eger, (Ul: White, (U), and Eliot, (R). (Meet won by R. P. I. frosh, 17-38.) advantage. Then Ted Vinick inter- cepted a pass and gave Kappa Nu a 12-yard advantage and a 1-0 vic- tory as the game ended. The Phi Gams and Chi Psis met this !llfternoon to determine who will play Kappa Nu for the cham- pionship Monday. They \make\ or \break\ a weekend! A fine Gridiron Ball is planned-so don't risk spoil- ing it. We're ready to give you the finest flowers there are. Call us now! Free carnations both nights. Student Flower Agency Wally Macmillan Phi Gamma Delta Junius Stephenson Phone 4-8323 representing UNION'S FLORIST T. J. Kl NG, Florist Overhead Crossing State St. Phone 4-6444 You'll welcome ice-cold Coca-Cola just as often and as surely as thirst comes. You taste its quality, the quality of genuine goodness. lee-cold Coca-Cola gives you the taste that charms and never cloys. You get the feel of complete refreshment, buoyant refreshment. Thirst asks nothing more. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA·COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA-COLA BOTTLING C0- 152 Erie Blvd. Schenectady, N. Y. You trust Its quality •• Vol f Tr Be 0 ( I ) A ern una has the ing Pre trUI cha whi of slig anc u l~egi inti of cha resc divi at Cha be 1 tot T thr' tior for pril spe con at l ure poli p tior fac· con ere; cat: 'I bod dat tee! Col Bal WII Dr. Ins· Pn Jos bia pia Gel bee nat T Pol son I, I cl;:la Pet sim ren A. IV. T Dl\ get fro A. eric III, Mo Chi SOl' 'I Ch1 anc Sec eric A by cor the cor The dm l the UTI I of· cia COl: ad1 the fac at div fed the pre ine no1 of

