e ce he 18, ts, ~c­ ed ce of ch lis us .re ed :Is, ay ~in di- !C- lCe on ice in N- ice !Ct tat nd :ic- lH, ter >Od 12 ·be ~re ~ed ~ill to t-th y's :·ed T \H E S T 11 D E N T .N E W S P A P •E R 0 F U N I 0 N C 0 L L E G E Vol. LXXIV., No. 15 SCHENECTADY, N.Y. JANUARY 1·0, 1947 Price JOe (oUege To Offer Who Pays f.or a College Education? DantQn To Reti,re; F .. h There is a persisten.t idea abroad among college students D G d. S \I b urt . er Extensi:on and their parents that the tuition fees paid by the student 01' I r .. · .or.on ·.l· er by the federal government are more than enough to take cm1e . • Courses Next I erm of the expense of a college program and that therefore in. W dl Be Su(cessor Courses in science, engineering, these days when many of these fees are being .paid by the Dr. Gordon R. Silber was today accounting, management and gen- G. I. Bill the coHeges are naturally xoHing in wealth. Nothing named head of the deparlment of ~~a~~~t~~rab~~~!!ct~n w~~:ee~~~f~~ c0uld be farther from the truth. As a matter of fact, the ac- modern languages at Union Col- semester beginning February 3, it ceptance of large numbers of veterans has placed many col- lege to succeed Dr. George H. Dan- was announced today by Prof. d ton, who will retire from active Mortimer F. Sayre, head of the leges in the position that they cannot balance their bu ·gets teaching in July. division of extension. In figNring the cost of education, it is unfail· to count in President Carter Davidson, in In addition, Union is instituting the dormitories of the dining haNs or the boeks·tore or other making the announcement, said a sequence of courses in store man- that Dr. Danton relinquished his agement and continuing fun and operations of the ocHege which should be run on a strictly duties a~· de.partment head before part time coeducatienal evening expense basis. No shrdent expects to be fed or housed at a his actual retirement in order that freshman programs. Dr. Silver may begin his term con- Beginning in the first term in loss. Limiting our studies strictly, therefore, t0 educational currently with that of the newly- February are elementary account- and instruct·ion expenses, URion College spent $694,000 on appointed Dean, William Huntley, ing, cost accounting, hHrnan rela- who takes office February 1. tions in industry, principles of these items during 1945-46_ This was for a student bodr that Dr. Danton is a widely known economics, general psychology, psy- averaged around 800 duTing the year. Therefore, the money scholar of Germanic languages and chology of personal adjm:tment, Chinese culture. A native ·Of New guidance and personnel pr·oblems, actually paid out ran about $867 per student. This figure, York City and graduate of Colum- effective writing, human biology, however takes no l'eCOO'nition of the fact that the College bia University, h., taught far 44 solid geometry, trigonomett·y, fluid , ' \' . . _ years in Germany, China and in mechanics, chemical thermodynam- ]'ll'OVldes a plant of classmoms and laboratol.'Ies which have I America at Columbia, Harvard, ics, and theory of magnetic devices. to be paid for and for which no charge is being macle. Even Western Reserve, Stanford, Butler Qu.;!ified students will be ad- h t _ b . . . d _ . . College, Reed College, NYU, Obcr- mitted to the second semester in t e mos. conservative USiness COl'p0l'atwn woul InSISt upon lin and Union. He has been at the following cour::es: accounting, a return of 5 r~ on the initial cost of these buildings to take Union as department head since economics, psychology, differential ! 1 · . 1 • 1935. He is a ·former national pres- e~uation~, arg~nic chem~stry, ap-1 car~ of obsol~scence and replacement. The Umon Co\llege edu- ident of the Amel\ican Association plied dtfferential ~quatwns, ad- catiOn plant IS worth at least $6 000 000 bv current bui.JdinO' of Teac_hers of German. . vance.d calculus, toptcs and analy- I • ' ' J \' Dr. S1Iber has been on the Umon sis, engineering electronics, rr.athe-1 standards, Ulit If we -'take a modest figure of $4,000,000, faculty since 1936, serving on leave ma1.i~al ph:,·sics, and nuclear which is less than the actual cost and take 5 r;. on that that of absence for thre7 war years wi~h phy::-1cs. I . . ' 1 ' the Army Secunty Agency m ~n of these c?urses may be ap- makes an additional $20_0,000 cost each year that should be Wa~hington wit? c~nfid7ntial phed for credit toward under- 1 charged to someone. This amounts to $250 per student. Add duties. A~ exp~rt m Itahan hte_ra- graduate or graduate degrees. In . . . ture, he 1s ed1tor of the Itahan additi~m, s.tructur~l design and I thiS to the $867 alr~ady. an·IVed at, and we receive a total of Literature section. a~, \Collier's _Na- pla~nmg Wlll be giVen to prepare, $1,117 pel' year, WhiCh It actually COStS to educate a StUdent honal ~ncyclopedta. He received engmeers for the N. Y. State . . both his undergraduate and grad- licensing examinations. at Umon. The $450 pa1d by the student or the government uate degrees from Princeton Uni- ---o in tuition, therefor, is less than half of the total cost and v:ersity. ---a--- Dewey HaU Accepted leaves a gap of $667. $250 of this has been paid for by those By Student Council donors to the college who enabled it to build its buildings and Last Tuesday at 12 o'clock noon, equipment. The other $417 is paid for by the trustees of the Dewey Hall was officially opened i Co!leo·e who have accumulated endowment funds and provide to the students of Union Col!P!;e. 1 \' The hall is located below Ba!Iey 1 the necessary balance from the income derived from these Hall_ and. across from the Electl'lcul funds. Union Collecre is fortunate in that its endowment Engmeermg Laboratory. \' . . Present at the ceremonies were funds have been carefully husbanded and !Vested durmg the Joseph Hanley. Lieutenant Gover- last forty years so that this $417 per sutdent was forthcom- nor of the State of New York; Mr. . . . ' . Wright, head of the City of Sche- mg. The Idea that there caN be any actual surplus m oper- nectady Public Grounds Commit- ations of an institution run on such a financial scheme is tee; Mr. Heck, Speaker of the ' House in the New York State Leg- however, completely fantastic. Union could not offer its pres- is}ature; Ten Eyck, Mayor of the ent educational proo-ram to the student body unless hundreds C1ty of Schenectady, and Chet Mar- . . . _'=' • • vin, President of the Schenectady of chantable md1v1duals had giVen .of thmr means to supple- CiDty CounHcil 11 · . d t d t ment the income from tuition and therefore make it possible ewey a 1s evo e a recrea- . . . . . tion and study and is now in full to build a plant, eqmp It, and support a faculty. AdditiOnal operation. The hall is open to all students since they renuire additional faculty members students from 8 A.M. to 11 P.M. ' · '1. every day except Sunday. This hall merely force the College to spread its endowinent income in was donated to the coll~ge by the a thinner layer over a larger group. This process quicldy State of New York speCifically for the student's benefit. As soon as reaches a point of diminishing returns. possible a pian_o and add_itional ping ___.Carter Davidson President pong tables Will be available. ' Divinity School President To Speak Dr. Edwin :McNeill Poteat, presi- dent of the Colgate-Rochester Di- vinity School, will be guest preacher at the Memorial Chapel service at Union College at 11 a.m. Sunday. The service will be broadcast by Station WGY beginning at 11:15. Dr. Poteat served as a missionary to China from 1917 to 1924 and then taught two years at the Uni- versity of Shanghai before return- ing to the United States where he was a pastor in Raleigh, N.C., and Cleveland, Ohio, before b-ecoming divinity school president in 1944. ---•0--- Sigma-Xi Colloquim . Dr. Martin H. Little will speak before a Sigma Xi colloquim on Friday, Jan. 17, at 4:30 p.~. in room 202 of the Physics Building. His topic will be \Emission Spectra.\ All faculty and students will be welcome.

2 FRIDAY, JANUARY lO, 1947 Letters to the Editor 3 January 1947 <$about going over to the Physics Qtnurnr The Editor I Laboratory, if you know where that THE CONCORDIENSIS I ·is? On the second floor you will Union College find a department head who is all Schenectady 8, N. Y. 1 that Steinmetz and Berg ever were. \A Cattsa Persa Paro!e Assai\ l\iember Associated Col- legiate Pre~s anrl distri- butor of .the Collegiate lligest. :-.rat•onal Atlver· th;ing Hepresentative: Na- tional Advertising Sl'rvicli>. Inc., College Publisher:; Hepresentative, 420 Mac!i- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- lished every Friday of tha HPhOB} year. Editorial Office, Washburn llall, Unic>n College. PuiJ- lication Office, The Ga- 7.l'Hc• Press, 334 State St. Enterc•d in the Schenel'- radv Po~t Offke ns Sec- •IT!!l l'la~\ l\htil l\latter, >-Uh\<'Tiptioll lOc a copy; $3 \ear: deli\'ered anywhe~·e in the United States. Dear Sir: 1 Yet not a freE·hman knows him. In a recent article entitled, \Om- • The only freshman .r have found , ni·potent Rosebud Again Back to who was able to give a positive Plague Powerful,\ your paper reply when asked if he had ever I credits its writer for the Chapel heard of Rojansky, a·nswered en- . time bomb. thusiastical!y, \Sure. He played lllANAGING BOARD ActuuJ.ly, none of the many au- tackle for Princeton this year.\ thors of articles headed \Rosebud''' Why can't we have a little pub- which have appeared in THE CON- licity and appreciation for some of CORDIENSIS from time to time the big men on our campus today, for several years, has had any con-! instead of continually crying in our I neclion with the group which pre- 1 beer over t~e heroeS' of the past? pared the Chapel time bomb. : Smcerely yours, I This group, known, to themselves ROBERT W. BREILING at any rate, as \The Rose,\ signed So perhaps we overlooked one or JOS~i>llh v. Harmon ........................................ Edltnr-in·Chi!'f ,James A. Bnnr .......................................... Jlanaging· Editor I.ot CooltP .................................................... News Editor Phil Bal'll!'l .......•.......................................... Copy f:ditnr Albert If. Hill. ............................................. Sports Editor Joseph I. B!'rnstein .................................... Uusiness :unnager lilu-ry f'. HawkPs ................................... Cireulation :uanag·pr Acknowledgment Due to impending, if not present, examinations, the CON- CORDIENSIS staff found itself unable to produce the regl:l- lar edition of the paper. For that reason, the format was cl~anged to this \pony edition\ and the assistance of the Of- fice of Public Relations was thankfully accepted. Virtually all the stories found within these pages origin- ated in the offices of Messrs. Francis Pray and Robert Bishop. They include the highlights of the vacation period as seen and announced by the publicity staff of the college. With this miniature edition, the CONCORDIENSIS sus- pends its operations for the duration of this term. The next regular issue will appear on February 6. Playing At Home - Away! With the announcement that the Athletic Department has been bolstered by the addition of several new coaches, we can't help but wonder when someone-almost anyone with sufficient authority-is going to move the basketball games back to their natural and rightful resting place-Alumni Gymnasium. Despite the well-meant fears of Director of Athletics J_ Hal Wittner, there has been no lack of seating room for our home games this season. In fact, we might say that the at- tendance figures would, in all probability, show that there have been fewer students attending than even in the lean years during the war. Perhaps the situation might have been different. We might have been crowded even in the Armory. We might have been! But, we are not, have not, and will not be crowd- ed-of that, we al'e certain. Therefore, let's put some pres- sure where it can do some good. We feel that the students are in accord that the present arrangement is a poor one. It is not too late to remedy the situation. If the home basketball games for the rest of the season are shifted back to the gym, we are certain that the team will receive the benefit both of more concerted cheering and of playing on th same court as that upon which they practice. their notes to certain officials of two-after all, we didn't make a the college with the seal of a rose. Cook's Tour of the campus. - Ed. Thus your confusion in linking the I The Editor two is understandable, albeit er-, ---0--- l'oneous. The Rose consisted of three men, of whom one is still in attendance at the college. The»e men held the common belief that some of the pomp and ceremony pervading col- lege functions could be alleviated by a little humor. At the same time, it 'vas hoped that members of the faculty who had apparently become so engrossed in this pomp and ceremony might be awakened to reality. The first opportunity to present itself involved not one of our faculty, but the Bishop of New Hampshire. The time bomb was prepared for his sermon, which was entitled, \Religion Must Not Be Entirely Serious.\ It was hoped that the time bomb might highlight his talk appropriately as well as subject the good gentleman to a little test of his sincerity. Ambitious plans were laid to find humor in the overly serious, and to »imilarly subject to little public tests certain of the faculty whose ostentation possibly disguised an inept personality. Unfortunately, the war forced the disbandment of The Rose at this point, and these plans were never carried out. The members of The Rose are proud of their ·one undertaking, which, although it was not ex- ecuted as planned, probably re- ceived more publicity because of this fact. They therefore resent your linking this accomplishment with one of your writers. For no one, not even The Concordiensis, has ever discovered the members of The Rose. Alas, that Spring should vanish with the Rose! That Youth's sweet-scented Manu- script should close! The Nightingale that in the Branches sang, Ah, whence, ar.d whither flown again, who knows! The inimitable Rosebuds had not tapped the hollow-tree post-office at last notice and consequently could not be reached for comment. Per- haps, however, the little Rosebud can grow into a large Rose if given time and opportunity. - Ed. 18 December 1946 The Editor The Concordiensis Washburn Hall Dear Sir: The next time you are casually wandering about the campus, how Rosebud has always felt himself to .be completely normal in physical respects. By comparison with other people of the genus homo sapiens, there has always appeared to be an almost disgusting sameness in physical equipment. Recently the conclusion was reached that un- fortunately we were just like other people. Now Rosebud is not so sure. He was compelled to leave the campus recently to journey downtown. As Rosebud wended his way along Jay Street, he chanced to hear two High School girls chat- ting as women will do. One was obviously trying to make the other recall a certain boy. Finally she threw in this sure identification: \You know who I mean, the guy with the two legs.\ Well, we wonder. ---0·--- Student research capacity of the Union College library has been in- creased almost 50 per cent by addi- tion of 60 study desks in the mez- zanine according to Helmer Webb, librarian. WE HAVE SERVED UNION MEN SINCE 1911 MAURICE B. GRAUBART and SONS The Jay Street Jeweler 166 Jay Street No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) FRIDAY, J. Sp·ort Are NewBasJ Peter J. Ni sity of Virgi has been app.c coach at Un 1947-48 seasm January 3 by president. Nistad will of athletics 01 the remainde1 ketball seasm coach with Ar coach at Sch race High VI Union for tw Garnet sought cage mentor. junior varsity NiS'ta·d nex head basketba be head tenr Mel Hein in J. Harold v athletics. The appoint Mullane of I tiona! YMCA as swimming announced Ja· A native Nisiad was ~ University of letters in bas baseball. He degree fr.om before enlistir where he bem physical train: Since disch~ at Staunton 1\! comes to Uni< Md., where hE the HagerstoVI Hockey T4 Monday me January, will ice hockey pr1 team is to 1 Lawrence and have been sch of tentative g: list. Two gan bury, one wit! with the Newb All men wh requested to t office on Mond ther plans wil! N RESTJ 547 II Righ the~ Italian-A p Served Ni

FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1947 3 Sp-orts Program Are Appointed Receives Substantial ,Boost And Some Minor Sports As Are Coa·che·s Re'born New Basketbat:l Coach ·Union Ski Team ·1 Balch Ass,istant Peter J. Nistad, former Univer- Makes Its Debut footbaU Coach Hockey and skiing will be re- sity of Virginia nine-letter man, I sumed as minor sports by Union Hockey and Skiing has been appointed head basketbaH With thei·r first ski team since . Richard L. Balch, quarterback on College this winter aftet· a five year coach at Union College for the 1941 headed by two outstanding Union College's undefeated 1939 . lapse, it was announced recently 1947-48 season, it was announced Norwegian students, Union College football team, has been named as-1 by J. HRrold Wittner, director of Janua·ry 3 by Dr. Carter Davidson, makes its winter sport£~ debut a't sistant .footbaH coach at his Alma I athletics. president. the Snow Ridge Intercollegiate Mater on the enlarged staff of. Twenty candidates on the ski Nistad wiH join the department meet at Turin Sunday. Coach Mel Hein, it was announced team, including one from Norway of athletics on February 3 and for· Ft•eshmen Arne Fretheim- and Thursday by Dr. Carter Davidson, and another from Sweden are the remainder of the current bas- Eric Bruin, both veterans of sev- president. He will. also assist Coach spending part of their Chri~tmas ketball season wiil ·be asE'ociate era! years of competitive skiing in Fred Wyatt in 1acrosse. vacation at the college Outing Club coach with Arthur \Whitey\ Boehm, Norway, head an eight-man squad Balch Tuesday was named amist- cabin oh North Creek practicing coach at Schenectsdy's Nott Tcr- selected from 25 candidates by ant in administration at Union. He under the direction of four alumni race High who has doubled at Coaches Fred Wyatt, Jim Peel and will work in the athletic depart- coaches Rexford G. Mo.on Jr. '44· Union for two seasons while the John Senn, to make the Turin trip. ment on a part time basis. Union's James A. Peel, '42; John w. Senn: Garnet sought a qualified full time Only holdover frotn pre-wa·r foot baN coaching staff next year '41; and Frederic A. Wyatt, '32. cage mentor. He wiH als.o coach teams is Rex Moon of Schenec~ad,Y will also include At:thur J. Lawr- Jan. 12, State Intercollegiate meet junior varsity and intra-mur~ls. who was a member of Umon s ence and Peter J. Nrstad. at Turin; Feb. 7-9, Skidmore Col- Nista·d next year will become 1941 tean;t. George Gould of Sch~- A native of Altadena, Calif. lege winter carnival; Feb. 14-15, st. head basketball coach. He also will nectady rs the only other expen- where he played footbaH at Pasa- Lawrence University winter car- be head tennis coach and assist enced competi<tive skier on the dena Junior College, Ba!Ich was nival; Feb. 22-23, Syracuse Univer- Mel Hein in footbaH, according to squad while Dick Jesser of Hack- blockin gback for Union's eastern sity at Syracuse; March 29-30, J. Harold Wittner, director of ensack, N. J. and Roger Graham of high scorer, Sam Hammerstrom., Union College Invitation Meet at athletics. Olean have been outstandiD;g candi- His special skill as blocl,ing back North Creek. Dual meets against The appointment of Raymond A. da~.es amonl? men with mformal is expec~ed to be put to. full u~e. by R.P.I. are under negotiation. Mullane of Flushing, former na- skung exp.erience. . . Mel Hem next year . m trammg Mr. Wittner is scheduling a tiona! YMCA swimming champion, The Umon team wrH arnve at players. Lack of depth m the block- hockey series. as swimming coach at Union was Turin Saturday for preliminary ing back position made this the ___ 0 , ___ _ announced January 2. trial runs at which the five com- weakest spot in Rein's 1946 back- Union College, Schenectady, played A native of Patchogue, L.I., petitors will be chosen for the Sun- field. its first baseball game in 1859, 13 Nistad was graduated from the day intercollegiate events. Union Balch served as a naval lieuten- years after the first \match game\ University of Virginia in 1940 with alumni headed by Dickinson E. ant during the war commanding a in baseball history. letters in basketball, football and Griffith and Russell Harris of motor torpedo boat at Guadalcanal, baseball. He received his masters Lowville will entertain the team. in the Solomons, and at Bismarck degree fr.om Columbia University The Snow Ridge skiing site is be- Archipelago. before enlisting in the Air Force ing developed by a Union alumnus, ----ot---- where he became a captain in the Lyman P. Williams, class of 1930. Union College, Schenectady, has physical training program. Sunday's competition wil'l be run won 60 per cent of the hundred of Since discharge, ·he has coached under the direction .af Hans games played by Garnet teams in at Staunton Military Academy and Schmidt, head of the Turin ski 48 years of basketball. comes to Union from Hagerstown, school and will include one down- Md., where he was head coach in hill run and two slaloms on differ- the Hagerstown high scho.ol. ent courses. Times of the best ---o three of five men count in each Hockey Team To Practice event. Monday morning, the 13th of January, will see the opening of ice hockey practice at Union. The team is to be coached by Art Lawrence and so far four games have been scheduled with a couple of tentative games on the waiting list. Two games are with Middle- bury, one with Hamilton, and one with the Newburgh, N.Y., A. C. All men who are interested are requested to be at Mr. Lawrence's office on Monday morning and fur- ther plans will be announced then. . The . NOTT RESTAURANT 547 Nott Street Right Opposite the Green Gate Italian-American Food PIZZA Served Nightly from 7:00 0 Union College, Schenectady, has inaugurated only 13 presidents in 151 years. MIN HAM'S I MEN'S SHOP I McGregor Sportwear Manhattan Shirts Lee Hats Rochester Tailored Clothing II 169 JAY ST. MILK Vitamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady. N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 ·FERRO'S RESTAURANT Spaghetti and Meat Balls Our Specialty 1115 BARRETT STREET SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR. YEARS = See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4·5676 114 STATE Near FERRY Schenectady for S P 0 R·T TOGS

4 FRIDAY, JANUARY 1·0, 1947 Bulletin H.Bolitho,British Bronner Cites Ten Most Socially Late Thursday night, ·the coonmit- Hisforian.'. Spea~s Significant Events Of Past Year !~~U:co:d :~ ~~!in!;rJ'~m: ::; 0 n l t . L .e. and his Orchestra fOl' the coming · n :t:U es lne lte Ten events reported by the press~ event. All othe!i' pJans n.re in the in 1946 which seem of most sig- embryo stage with the committee, Jewish-Arabic troubles in Pales- nificance to human welfare and ·delphia indicates that caudal an- headed by Wally Wiggins, hard at tine were explained to students and social evolution were listed recently algesia can cut stillbirth and first wor]{ to maim this the liiJOSt sue- guests at Union College Monday by Dr. Frederick L. Bronner, pro- week infant mortality by 50 .per- cessful affair of the year. evening at 8 p.m. in a lecture by fessor of history at Union College cent. Scheduled for the week-end! o.f Hector Belithe, British historian a·nd widely ltnown student ef social Oct. 16-Ten Nazi war leaders are Februn.ry 21, the dance will be en- and biographer. The public was in- ev 0 lution. hung in Nuremburg prison. Evi- titled the \Winter Wortderland\. vited. . . In anneuncing his annual com- deuce o fa new principle in inter- The Jilean!s Office bJas ann 01 mced President Carter DaVldoon an- pi!ation, Dr. Bronner selected the national law under which an in- that Saturda<y, February 22, will be D:ounced· that for ~he first t1me no disarmament plan of the United dividual' may be held responsible a holiday .. tickets ~ere reqt.ured for the lee• Nations Genera:! Assembly as the I for crimes against humanity. The committee f()IJ' the dance In- ture which was supp0rted by the j event havi.ng the ~reatest act:ual O?t·. ~8-Presi~ent Truman nam.es eludes Chairman Wig.gins, Eugene Ichabod Sp('nc.er F_und. . and potential mcamng for the Im· a CIVIhan .atemiC energy commis- Sullivan, Robert Breiling, ra.ul Boll tho has lived m both Pa.Jestme provement of human welfare. sian to control atomic weapons, Fitting, Charles Weisner, Ed Will- \:n? Tra?s-Jordan over long, ~eri?ds, Events named chronologicaHy by patents, raw materials and lands iamson, Josh Titus, and Joseph hvmg With both Arabs and :Zwmsts, Dr. Br0nner are: producing uranium and thorium. Fucigna. The Dance will be span- while gathering material for bo.oks. Jan. 1-Quantity production of Civi'lians wHI direct man's :aewest sored by the Student Council. He lived in Jewish settlerr.ents on the rare \Carbon 12,\ carbon source Gf power as a servant of the shore of Gali1ee and in the Val- isotope, is announced. This isotope man rather than as a destroyer. College Co-ed Program To Be Continued At Unior:~ ley of Sharon while preparing his can trace \intricate chemical re- Nov. 14-General Electric sci- biography of Alfred· Mend, early actions\ in the body and may possi- entists transform a 3-mile cloud .Zionist. On his next trip, he lived bly exceed X-ray in importance as I over Greylock M0untain into snow. in the desert pa.Jace of Emir Abdul- 1 a t0ol of medical science. I This minor experiment hints at Uni6n College wil'l continue its lah, descendent of .Mohamed and 1 1 Jan. 10-The .first session of the I man's increasing control of the coeducational freshman evening Arab ruler of Trans-Jordan. 51-nation UN General Assembly weather, the greatest .single uncon- program for qualified students with- He interprets Far Eastern prob- opens in Landen. A realistic at- tt·o!led natural force affecting man's in 50 miles of .Schenectady, it was Ierne with the perspective .of a his- tempt to create a world governed welfare. announced today by Professor Mor- torian. A native ef New Zealand, by justice and by law. Dec. 11-John L. Lewis is held timer F. Sayre, head of the division he migrated to England to become Mar. 15-Prime Minister Attlee in contempt of court. This is the of extension. a leading biographer of English announces plan for India's inde- opening shot in a battle to define A numb:er of evening students for royalty .of the Victorian Age. His 'pendence. At last 390 million peo- I the rights of individuals in a de- freshman study in liberal arts and \Albert the Good,\ \Victoria the ple of India, 18 percent of the mocracy when these rights seem ?ngineering will be accepted follow- Widow an~ Son,\ and \Edward world's population; have a chance 1 . contrary to the rights of society. mg entrance examination~ this VIII\ are widely known. at self-determination. Dec. 14-The United Nations Gen- Saturday, Professor Sayre said. The He h\s written 34 bool{o, includ- Apr. 25 Big four foreign mi·n-, c•ral Assembly unanimously adopts ·terms will begin February 3rd. ing \Beside Galilee\ and \The isters meet in Luxembourg palace ! an all-inclusive program for general! J. Harold Ripton, director of ad- Twelve Jews\ which were inspit·ed to draft peace treaties. These men 1 'disarmament and the prohibition missions, said ~hat thet-e ar·e sti11 by his visits to the Holy Land. determine the future of the Nazi , of mass-destruction weapons. This. several vacancies in the regular The fitst English author to join j satellite nations, traditional trou!Jie, decision is a mi,J<?stone in inter- 1 1i~eml arts program which will ~d- the RAF on the day war was de-, spots of Europe. 1 national cooperation and the first m1t 48 freshman for study begm- clared, Bolitho served as an J.ntelli-1 Sept. 9-Two-year study in Phila-! step toward \collective security.\ ning February 3rd. gence officer and le~tun·cl to oome 1 _ · - - Applications for day or extension 180,000 recruits. M\ • k I programs should be made immedi- -------o ISSI·ng Boo UCCA Wheels Attend ately: Entrance examinations will . H I'd C f be g1v·en Saturday afternoon, Dec. Language Dept. Sets I THE CONCORDIENSIS : 0 I ay on erence 21st, from 1:30 to 4:30 and early in Add d 0 I P 1 Dear Sir: ! Stuart Merriam of 1060 Parkwood January if demand warrants. e ra rogram 1 . B The evening program was insti- By action of the Faculty Council 1 I shall .appre. elate your pri.nting 1 lvd., Schenectady, and Robert tuted last fall to pl'Dvide first-year h f 11 'Adams of Olean represented Union at its meeting on January 7, supple- t e 0 owmg l.Ist of books .m1ssmg College at a meeting of the Na- college opportunities for students mentary oral ·practice courses in from the English Room. Smce we tiona! Intercollegiate Christian unable to attend college elsewhere. French German d s · h ,·ll hav(' no Ieplacement fund for these . Ab t 50 · 'd t t d ' • an pams \\ 1 · 1 . . Counctl at the University of Illinois ou area 1 esi en s are s u y- be offet·ed by the Department of tit es, 'he are c>·pecmlly anx10us U ·b the · t '. ing in the evening program at \ that the\ should t b 1 t· d I ana, Ill., during wm er 1 • nodern Languages in the second · > no e os , an h I'd present. Two are women. The s('mester if the nec·essary additional I students are asked to return them ' 0 ~ ay. th 700 A . ll 1 freshman program may also be teaching personnel is available., either to Mi~s Nardini, cr directly ' -d 0 l~ f ~~ mt:ICan °? e_ges, taken on a part-time basis without These courses, meeting two hours· to ~he she!v<?s. For outside use, ~~sented ~\e~~~ ~~~~c:i~~h~~~~:i~ entrance examinations. a week and carrying one semest·er 1' copies of these books may be found f t d t · It is expected that the spring I · . in the Librarv Our n . every our years o e ermme Iour ~f credtt, wtll be open to stu- . .-? • • ow .copies policy for the National YMCA and program in ~ccounting and man- ?ents m the 1b, 2a, and 2b courses' must be testncted· fot use ~~ t~e YWCA. Meniam and Adams are agement, retail and wholesale store m the three languages who apply! Room on.ly. We want to maint~m 1 officers of the Union College Stu- management, science and engineer- for admission and are accepted by· the English Room at best capacity d t Ch . t' A · t' ing will be announced soon the Department, so far as their' for all those interested in good 1 en ns Jan ssoc!a IOU. ' ··--·-----·.. • schedules allow. Students will be: readin?, and so we solicit the co-' o---- ! ~·· given an opportunity to apply to operatiOn of everybcdy concerned. 1 Union College athletic teams ha.ve enter the courses at the beginning ,\n<lt•J'\'\'· linn,.. C.-Andt·rson's Jo'ajn· 'worn Garnet colors since 1857 when Tales I of the new term. , Bnrtlett-Familiar Quotations a Unien crew first wore Garnet Provision for the courses _has~ Hltel'iltTiu- Ut~t·amrrou I caps in a regatta against Harvard. been made in response to current i J!nmttt•, l•: ~, 1 ,~ 111 1 \ 1 EJre H . 1 t Previously both Union and Harvard 'Int t . I d th d I ,,on e. .- u l(lt'lllt!' eJg I !\i erPs m anguages an e e-, Bmtun, 1:.-'J'he Anatomy of .\lt•lant•boiJ had claimed magenta as their col- maud by students for oral work to: f'h•·'t<-rlh:ld--I.Ptter• to His Son ·lege color. Harvard subsequently supplement the standard l'('ading r'ran<>. Almee-Art in thP Arme<l Funes' switched to Crimson knowledge courses now offered ! l>elne, llan!el-.\loll Flanders . • , J)t'lDe, IJamel-H:.oxnna .-----------------. J)n:--trlt·v~h.r--Critnt• and J>uni\'hmpnf Edmond:-;, 'Ya11Pr n_-Eril• ':VatPI' International exchange of schol- ars between Union College, Sche- nectady, and St. Andrews Univer- sity, Scotland, will be renewed in 1947 after a six-year wartime lapse. PROFICIENCY TESTS The Department of Modern Languages has announced that proficiency tests in French, Ger- man, and Spanish will be given on February 3 at 7:30 P.M. in Room 106, Bailey Hall. Liberal Arts students can sat- isfy the College's language re- quirements by passing this test in lieu of passing French 2b, German 2b, or Spanish 2b. il•:dmonrls, \\'alter 11.-}Jnstly Canallers I; F'ure:-:.ter, C. K-Commodure Hnt·nblower II 1 1lrimm, 1-L-Grirnm'~ Fairy Tal~s Hemingway, I-G.-A FareW{'ll to Arms lsherwnm\, Chri><tophet·-Prater Violet Lav.Tetll't>, D. H._:,Sons and Lo\o·ers ; ~laulclin, BiJ:-rp Front 1 ~faut·ois, Allllre-Prollhets and Poets '\\'ard, ~!ary Jane-The Snake Pit 1 :\lill<lleton. Thoma~-Piays, l':dited by · \\'istet·, Owen-The Virginian I Srht>:ling Wolfert. Ira-American Guerrilla in the Ci'::\\eill Eugene-Nine Plays PllllipJllnes Pat'kPr, Dot·othy-Tile Portable Dorothy \\'hite, wm. Allen-Autoblo~raphy Parker ~ Foe, E. A.-Tales of Edgar Allen Poe llimhawl, Arthur-Season In Hell Yillon, Francais-Complete Poems \Vaugh, Icvelyn-Brldesltead Revisited \'oltaire-Candide Sincerely yours-, Wagenknecht, E.-Fireside Book of HAROLD BLODGETT, Christmas Stores '-----------------1· ·wakeman, Frederil'i<-The Hucksters Chairman DALEY•s Restaurant FINE FOOD 412 State St. ·-- ·-- Vol. LXXIV., No. 15 Huntlel ... Seven[) Two Teams Headed By'i Wyatt and Balch See 27 Secondary Schools Delphic Society Plan Union First to Hold Speaking Tour To Be Emulated By Others A new approach to the problem of education of high school studPnts in the whys and wherefores of col- lege life was tried successfully last week when seven Union undergrad- uates spent their mid-term vaca- tion as travelling emissaries to four nearby States. Speaking to the stu- dent .assemblies at twenty-seven secondary and preparatory schools they explained the admissions prob- lem confronting the colleges today and gave a resume of undergradu- ate life as it exists at Union . The seven men worked in two tPams of th!'ee and four each. The three man team, under the leader- ship of Frederic A. Wyatt, Gradu- ate Council Secretary, covered 17 schools in New England. The other four men, led by Richard Balch, Assistant to the Director of Admis- sions, contacted ten schools in New Jersey and Maryland. Accompanying Wyatt were Lyall Dean, Oscar Kruesi, and Robert Heidel!. The other group Included william C. Eiseman. Alft'ed Lewis, Chest<'r Marvin, and Harry Hawkes. Individual Sp('eches At each school visited, each of the three or four men gave brief talks on several related topics con- cerning undergraduate activity. Fol- lowing the talks the assemblies be- came informal open forums, and the remaining time was spent in answering the numerous and varied questions asked by the high school students themselves. Wyatt and Balch acted merely as moderators on the programs. Main item on the speakers' agenda was the admissions prob- lem. It was pointed out that every college in the country is currently deluged with applications, and they continued with definite suggestions on gaining admission. Following this they discussed the choice of a college, whether large or small, urban or suburban, and the choice of a curriculum. A strong point that they brought out was the part that extra-curricular activities should play in a well balanced coi- !Pgc earN'!'. The program wa~ rounded out with discussions of expPnses and opportunities to earn money while in school, fraternity housE' and dormitory living conditions, study habits, military training, And post graduate plans. Delphics Responsible Plans for the trip originated with several members of the Delphic Society who felt that secondary school students were getting a somewhat distorted view of college in general. The average high school student learns about college through a college advisor at his school or from older men he may know who have attended college. Conditions have changed so much in the past few y.ears, however, that these men no longer have a true pictm·e uf actual conditions as seen from the students viewpoint. The Delphics also saw that the college catalogues, while mention- ing the existence of fraternities and extra-cunicular actlvitics, could not convey the importance of these phases of college life. They felt. that college means more than just \book-larni.n'\ .and that participa- tion in non-academic affairs is es· sential to the development of a well rounded personality. Finally, they concluded that lack of em- phasis on. this .point has p~obably deterred man-y worthwhile can?i- dates from seelting admission to (Continued on Page 6)