., I UM ~ 11- \\ v. '] ~ c., ;t tt Vol. 71. No. 1 c.onsider ROiTC Unit ·At Union (Editor's I'[ote-A move has been made to establish a Re- serve Officers' Training Corps unit at Union College. 'Further discussion· of the matter has been deferred until the next meeting of the faculty council. Below, Don Cregier, Concordi- ensis :;;taff writer gives argu- m~nts for and against such a program, describing the steps leading to the present senti- ment for a unit here.) By Don Cregier On June 24, 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed the. Selective Service Act ·Of 1948, and for the second time in . American history, peacetime conscription became law. Ac- cording to the terms of this . Act, male .Americans between the ages ·of eighteen and twenty-five are required to register for selective service.,. while those between nineteen · and twenty-five are eligible for induction into the armed forces. . M~my Still Eligible Excluding veterans, men with de- pendents, and pre-theology, pre- medical, scientific, and engineering students, most of whom are exempt or deferred, there is still a large group of students at Union· College who fa<:e possible military service. Included in this latter group are · non-veteran candidates for the A.B. degree who after colle&\e will enter the fields of business, law, and teaching. · Shortly after President Truman signed the Selec:tive Service Act, a Student Committee was- formed at Union f.or the purpose (1) of polling the student body concerning their interest in a re;;erve training unit on the campus, and (2) if the re- sponse favored such action, to re- quest that such a unit be estab- lished. With assistance of the Graduate Council, a circular letter outlining the draft situation was sent to some 1300 students, together with a postcard asking the stu- dents' opinion on possible reserve units. Approximately 700 replies were receiVed, indicating above average inte1•est in the project. The majority of the students who re- sponded favored either the Reserve Officers Training Cor.ps (ROTC) or· the Naval Reserve Officers Train- ing Corps (NROT.C), with t'!ie former having a slight lead. The Organized Naval Reserve and the National Guard came in third ai:ld fourth. Since investigation showed that ROTC units are limited to universities and colleges with a normal enrollment e~Meding 1000, it was decided to concentrate on the establishment of a units of the ROTC. .A copy of the Committee's · report, <:ontaining tll.e results of the poll, has been delivered to Presi- dent Davidson,' with the recom- mendation that the wishes of the student body be acted upon as soon as possible. Similar copies will soon be forwarded to the secretaries of the\ Board bf Trustees, the Gradu- ate Council, and the Student Coun- Founded at Union College in 1877 SCHENECTADY, N.Y., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBERR 24, 1948 . First on the List Top, artist's sketch of proposed new field house, part of broad bUilding plan which will be launched at kick-off dinner tomorrow night. Below, interior sketch of field house, whicl\ will have dirt floor and will accommodate many sports. The Concordiensis throws its full support behind the campaign to build a new field house. We have been cautious until now in adding our backing 'to the expanding drive, for until recently we had not been assured that the pro- posed field house is but the first step in a wider building plan to include a library, dormitory and other necessary additions and changes in the college plant. , .There is no question of the need for expanded athletic facilities; nor have we ever challenged that need. But we had previously feared that other construction would stop for an undetermined period after completion of the field house. · But now we have oeen reassured. A broad building campaign has b~en announced. The kick-off dinner tomorrow night will mark the start of an intensive, carefully=engineered drive to provide the college with sufficient funds to satisfy the needs and dreams of all departments. We support this drive. PRICE 10 CENTS Gridders to Open ·Against Larries; Seek Revenge By HERBERT SAXE Head Coach John McLaughry has finaUy beaten, tugged and molded his gridiron charges into A-1· condition, to meet the invading Larries from Canton, N. Y., at 2:30 tomorrow afternoon on Alexander Field. When the Dutchmen opened their season away last year against St. Lawrence, they found themselves suffering from an extreme case of \opening game jitters\ and they let the big boys from Canton shove them all over the greensward, eventually ending up on the very light end of a 27-6 pasting. Clean Slate What happened last year in his- . tory as far as tomorrow's game is concerned. Paul E. Patten, starting his first year as football mentor at St. Lawre~ce, is fortunate to have fourteen lettermen on his squad. Unfortunately most of these men are backfield men, while there is a sad, sad shortage of Scarlett and Brown linemen. Quarterbacks, fullbacks, halfbacks everywhere. Where, cih where can my linemen be? Just how well Patten has done, making linemen from reconverted backs and green, young men, will remain a moot question until an- swered tomorrow afternoon on Alexander Field. Alumnus Appointed Coordinator McLaughery has been running his charges through a stiff session of airway practice this week, after the Dutchmen out shoved an Am- herst squad in a practice game at Amherst last Saturday. The Dutchmen unleashed an imposing array of fast backs, fronted by a ground-holding, hole-opening line, to hold an edge over the touted Amherstites in ground gains. Less and Less Coach McLaughry's winged T- formation seemed to be working smoothly.\ ;lt is interesting to note how many coaches are returning to the use of the wingback or modi- fied T-formation. As one coa·ch so aptly put it, \We've just about crossed the T.\ St Lawrence !S expected to use the T-formation again this year, and McLaughry is putting his charges through defensive work- outs, designed to squelch any St. Lawrence spark before it can catch fire. The only bright spot in the Scar- lett and Brown line migllt be the ends. On hand from 1947 season is long, lanky John Moro, whose ability to ·haul down the aerial at- tacks of quarterback Lou Cioffi, may give. the Dutchmen some concern. Other Larrie ends are Jim Maley and Ollie Audet. Starting for the Dutchmen eleven tomorrow afternoon will be Bris- son or Sherwin RE; Mills, RT; Teneyck, RG; Whalen, C; Weiss or Schaffer, LG; Abba or Dvorchak, LT; Cappola, LE; fronting Strauss, QB; Best, LH; Wade, RH; Lund- strom, FB. \The salvation of the small, pri- vately, endowed college depends on educating all alumni to contribute to their college regularly,\ said Harold M. Van De Car, Union's new director of financial develop- ment. In his new capacity, Mr. Van De Car will attempt to so educate Union's Alumni. \Union he went on, \does not depend on the so called big money.\ The first object on Mr. V;m De Car's program is raising the funds HAROLD VAN DE CAR, '37 for the Alumni Memorial Field ·House, to be erected in the near future. ''Kick-Off'' Dinner To Launch Intensive Fund Campaign With Field House As Three First Mr. Van De Car emphasized that the field house is merely one minor phase of a long range building pro- \(Tear gram that wm renovate and reface .L t the campus. In the long range .,. program are a new library, class G l . rooms, dorms, etc. ·• oa . In Mr. Van De Car's opinion, every man Who has attended Union. has taken far more from the col- cil. The fund raising campaign .for • . Nothing New the Alumni Memorial Field House, dent Carter Davidson. Others are feet of floor space. Lockers, offices, eric A. Wyatt, director of alumni .A militalj>' training unit would to be erected in the near future, a freshman dormitory, already and storage facilities are arrangecl relations. lege than he can ever repay to it. He emphasized that the cost of put- ting a student through a four year course is roughly double the not be an innovation at Union. A will be launched at the Kick Off· planned by ·the board of truE>tees, along the walls. 1 Many Alwnni to Spealt volunteer organization· drilled on Dinner 'to be held at 6:30 Saturday and a new library. New facilities · · ' t H. 1 Hou e A kitchen is plan, ned SO that the the campus during the Civil War; evenmg a a e s · . . for the ca!lege heating plant were Th b 'ld' t est approx1 f building may be used for cater- during the First World War, units e Ul 1n,g, o c - completed this year at a cos.t o · h If '11' d 11 s will ing to large groups of alumni or of the Reserve Officers Training mately a ·a ml 10n ° ar • - nearly a quarter million dollars. Corps and the Students Army Train- be erected in memory of the 76 community gatherings. ing Corps were organized f.or Union Union College ·alumni who lost The field house will round out. The field house has been de- students; and during World War !I, their lives in World Warn and in athletic facilities at the college. It signed by McKim, Mead and White Navy V-12 and V-5 tralne'l!s made honor of others who served. will provide year-round playing of New York, official college archi- up a majority of the student body. Seek $11>0 Per Alumni space for prnctice and conditioning tects of 'many New England and · t in almost every sport and will be The arguments both for an 0 da 0 gams 1 t The donations of $ 150 is to be used for intramurals and physical New York colleges. Cinder block the .establishment of an R T un solicited on a pledge basis, the education classes. will be used for the walls, covered on .. campus at .present are numer- donors having until 1950 to ·pay. with stucco to harmo~ize with ous. Not only would a unit of this State ~ cha:irmen have been ap- Basically, according to college of- other college buildings. The roof sort require considerable training pointed who in turn will appoint re- .ftcials, the field house will consist will be supported by tremendous faciiities, but it would be highly gional chairmen. These regional of a large covered area free of sup- laminl!.ted wood trusses springing time consuming. On the other hand, . C'hairmen will do the actual leg . porting ·piilars or post:> and pro- from wall to wall over the 180 foot it would provide constructive· mill- work and contact alumni groups vided with a dirt floor. A running expanse. The roof will be gray. tary training for the student while a,nd indiv.idual a.lumnl. track one-tenth mile long, with a Landscaping will tie the building he cohtirtues his college career un- The field house was chos-en as an 5()-yard straightway s,loilg one side, to the ground. interrupted by tw-enty~one months objective after a study of the needs will circle the floor. In charge of the campaign is of service. ROTC training at Union of th~ college and will be the first Principal dimensions of the Harold Van De Car; newly ap- would unquestionably be v.oluntaiy, 1 d b \ld' 180 b 197 feet n pointed director of financial de- as is the case at many other (;!mall of several :major buildings p anne · Ul . mg are y · , e - for the futur ·e .accord 1 'ng to Presi~ ·closing more than: 35,000 S\uare velopment, He is assisted by Fred~ · colleges throughout the country. · · • = · \\ -a 143888;{ 5 The principal! speaker at the din- actual tuition paid by the student. ner Saturday evening will be Rob- The extra money to keep Union ert Patterson, class o:f '12, and for- going must come from contribu- mer Secretary of War, whose ad- tions by the alumni. dress will be broadcast at 8:30 p.m. In discussing the alumni rela- over WSNY. Oswald Heck, speaker tions of other colleges com;parable of the State Assembly in Albany, to Union, Mr. Van De Car pointed will act as toastmaster. out that Union falls woefully short Other speakers of the evening in the number of alumni who reg- will include Carter Davidson, pres!- ularly contribute to the college. He dent of the college; Fred Wyatt, di- hopes to instill a lifelong college rector of alumni relations; Leroy J. spirit by proper orientation and im- Weetl, a trustee; Harold Van De buing with Union traditions of Car, director. of financial develop-, alumni during their undergraduate ment; Hal Wittner, director of days. \Everyone must be made to athletics; C. L. Hequenbourg, na- realize,\ he said, \that Union is a tiona! chairman of the current timeless thing. She has grown with drive: H. W. Hennelly; and Walter our country and every Union alum- C. Baker, chairman of the· Board nus has a debt to repay. This :can of Trustees. and vice president of be done by contributing to the sup- the Guaranty Trust Company of port o'f the college that nurtured llew York. you.\ (

2 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1948 Green Men Enter Blue Gate; Faculty Turn Over· Orient • Ma,y They Ring With Thy Children's Chorus . New Class Freshmen Promises· At C.amp New Life By JA.'\IE8 :Ml:RRAY The most successful Fresh- men Camp in (lnion history came to- condtL:;ion Tuesda;y afternoon with the return to the campus of the 173 fresh- men who made the weel<-end as well as the 27 student lead- ers, the lU foreign students, and the 34 faculty members. The yearly event got under- way Friday morning when buses left for Camp Chinga- chook, a YMCA-Boy Scout owned and controlled camp lent to the college each yem· for this event. From the beginning the weather and the co-operation of all the stu- dents as w·ell as the faculty mem- bers heralded a pleasant few days. It was a real surprise to find out that al:;o the camp had good food and that preparations for the camp had been thoroughly made. Davidson, Freshman Attractions Ther-e wPre many highlights to the affair. perhaps the climax com- ing on two different nights, the first when President Davidson. gave a rendition of \Davidson\s Doleful Ditties\ on Saturday evPning and the second when over one hundred assorted persons gave one of the freshmen a block \U\ haircut Sun- day night after taps had been sounded. There were other features such as Burges Johnson's talk on \Vocational Interests\ on Saturday afternoon, Dr. Bronner's talk on \Fraternities and the Socia:I Life at Union Colleg-e\ at the campfire dis- cussion on Saturday evening, the boat trip on a PT boat up Lake George to Paradise Island, and the Monday morning hilte up Buck Mountain, but none measured up to the two previously mentioned for universal interest. For '·the average freshman and staff member it was a time for get- ting acquainted with vague, un- known faces looming about the camp. It was also a time for get- ting three swims per day, for dis- cussing with the individual instructors and the departmental heads personal problems. Each day saw the different tents, which con- tained from four to twelve men including an uppercla.ss leader, compete against other tents in volleyball, basketball, touch foot- ball, and softball. Staff Scores Win Of considerable interest was the softball game in which the staff members played against an all- star freshmen tea!D. The staff members won by a score of some- thing like 22-6 behind the master- ful pitching of \Big Bill\ Ketz, Jim Pemrick and strike-out artist Pete Nistad. The freshmen field- ing was erratic and their pitching not quite good enough to quell the booming bats of the staff men. Best all-around player on the field was \Chattet·-Box\ Van der Car, a catcher recently imported from an- other league (see story on page one). By the time Tuesday morning rolled around, everybody seemed to know everybody else and the at- mosphere was definitely relaxed and friendly. It is a wonder that the :staff members didn't hold bad feelings against one of the fresh- men who was reported as getting a date with the blonde girl next door to the camp the second day out over the futile attempts of the upperclassmen. Four students received pins Mon- day evening for their outst·anding contributions to Freshmen camp this year. They were Bill O'Neill, Clyde Musty, who wa,s in charge of the kitchen staff, Pat McGivern, and Bill Grant, student leader. Of. course, mention should also be. made of Bill Ketz who was the faculty member in charge of the camp fay the fine job of organiz- ing he did. GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY These pictures were talten by staff photographer Robert Navias during the day he spent at Freshman Camp and Iiiclude in the upper left hand corner a typical swim and volleyball scene, in the upper right corner, Dr., Frederick Bronner is discussing fl'!\ternlty life at one of the campfire meetings, right center, David Corwin is leading one of the songfests, lower right, Burges John- son, Professor Emeritus of English, is leading a class discussion, lower left, Dr. Harold Blodgett is explaining some phases of the humanities division to humanities majors. New Faces Added to Faculty New faces on the college •.Samuel Stratton, M.A. Harvard, as0to direct the reintroduc-ed course in campus are not the exclusive lecturer in philosophy, has re- art. Dr. Bennetton, Professor . t f th · · placed Professor Stanley, who is on Stanley, Professor Scott and Pro-- proper Y 0 e InCOlnill~ sabbatical leave. fessor Robbins are on leave. :f;eshman. Numerous addl- The science departments have Those who have left Union for hons have been mfl,de to the been strengthened by Professor other posts or positions are Doc- faculty to fill variOUS vacan- Dale, returning from leave, and Dr. tors Pulgram, Weinberger and cies created by fleeing incor- Rober! Terry, Ph.D. Penns:v.lva17ia, Hartwig, Professors Rodney and ri!ribiles and staff members. as ass1stant pro_fessor, both m b10l-~ ~reble, . and ~essrs Hayes, Phil- <> ogy, Dr. Jermam D. Porter, .Ph.D. hps, Fmkelstem Deul Urbano These new api?ointees include Cornell, as assistant professor in 1 Ballou, Yovits a~d Gordon Miller: · Mr. Jackson Davw, M.F.A. Yale, the chemistry division, and Mr. as instructor in speech and di- Robert Brady, B.S. Union 1947, as rector of dramatics; Mr. Frank instructor of geology. Mr. Edward Thyne, A.B. Union, instructor: and Craig, B.S. Union 1948, has joined : Cleaners and Dyers Ball's Inc. RebuUders Mr. Edward Muir, M.A. Chicago, the mathematics force, ·and Pro- ' instructor, all in the department of fessor Harold E. Way, Ph.D. Iowa, 1 English, and Dr. Hans H~:~.inel:tack, comes as chairman of the depart- Ph.D. Giessen, as assistant pro- ment of physics, which has also I fessor of German, Mr. Frederick added Dr. Robert Vought, Ph.D. · Spear, M.A. Harvard, as instructor Pennsylvania, ·as assistant pro- in .French and Spanish, and Mr. fessor and Mr. Sol Nudelman, M.S. 633 State St. Clarence Olson, M.A. Albany, as Indiana, and Mr. James Nicol, B.S. 204 Union St. instructor in French. St. Andrews, as instructors. The history department has been Professor Godcha!;'les has been PHONE 6-3456 expanded by the appointment of replaced in the department of psy- · ·Dr. William Bristol, Ph.D. Penn- chology by a Union alumnus Dr. sylvania, as assistant profeBsor of Clare Graves, Ph.D. Western' Re- Call Ball and Barl Will Call Latin American History and Mr. serve, as associate professor, Mr. James W. Morley, M.A. Columbbia, Richard H. Russ, B.S. Yale, has as instructor in Far Eastern His- come as instructor in Electrical tory, and the department of eco- Engineering, and Messrs, Ralph nomics has increased its offerings Metz, B.S. North Carolina, and by adding Dr. Edward Marz, Ph.D. Julius Mondschein, B.S., C.C. N.Y., Harvard, and Mr. George A. as instructors in C.E. Bishop, M.A. Queens, as assis~ant Professor Blodgett has returned · professors, and M~. P€r~-y Te1tel· from sabbatical leave, and Dr. baum, M.A. ColumbJa, as mshuctor Frank Albright has been selected in accounting and statistics. Mr. FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS LANGE & RAPP Pharmacy GUERRA'S PHARMACY By Jil\L BRYSON A norma:! peacetime class ·of 290 was selected for admission this fall from l,OH applicants. 'One accepted Fr.eshman failed to register. The ·Bowdoin plan reg-istered seven new sludents, while 86 persons trans- ferred to Union from other ·Colleges. President Carter Davidson has ex- pressed the belief that the Class of '52 will bolster \Union Spirit\ con- siderably, principa~ly because 88% of the gt\oup are non-vetera,ns. He feel:; that the teen-aged Freshmen will engage in extensive campus activities, and join more whole- heartedJy in \college life.'' As a mild restraint on youthful enthusi- asm, Prexy said, \While I believe spirit to be better than ev:er before, I hope it can show itself without wrecking property.\ Pajama par- ties (male), pep rallies, and the traditional rivalry with the trade schwl boys down the river, wm. be permitted only if conducted short of violence. The student council must asoume liability for the de- struction and damage wrought by groups of undergraduates. With justifiable pride, Dr. Dav- idson pointed out that Union has always held its own in the sorties with the slide rule mechanics, de- spite a smaller student body. The use of tire-irons, clubs, and loaded· '45's is being discouraged. The scholastic average of the en- tering class is a solid 82%, ·al- though the results of college board exams, relationship to alumni, and the interview and recommenda- tions were given due stress. Extra- curricular activities were also given consideration. Nearly a quarter of the freshmen are from the Capitol District, and three- fourths from New York state in general. A total of 86 transfer students were accepted from a list of 1,050· applicants, Interviews were grant- ed to 400 applicants, and \serious consideration\ was given to 511. The Committee on Student Stand- ings reviewed 259 transfer · cases and passed 86. The majority, 47, are from the Associated Colleges of Upper New York. The re- mainder were collected from col- leges betw~n Rhode Island State and U. of Texas. Electrical Engi- neering is the most popula·r course of study among the transferees with chemistry running second. ' of~ SLACKS and SPOR'I' COATI Tailored of famous fabrics ••• with a feeling for the importance of being casual. Serving Union Since J9J J ~./8\\\\l flSO\\~ (}\\\\UJ JAY ST. JIWEURS PRESCRIPTIONS \Service for the Sick\ Fountain Prescriptions Sundries Headquarters for Union Men CHEMICALS - DRUGS Patton & Hall X-KAY FITTING 24lS STATE ST.-since 1893 II 166 Jay Street II Cor. NOTT TERRACE and STATE STREET 600 Union St. . Cor. Barrett St. 513 State St. Stan. Joseph, Unit~n· '21 i. sc J\!IihOI and .pr! ..:_p:resi having is cons ap.d bl Our p chief il to star ence ~ .co:P,ege! Wittne· ma:jar quartet baseba1 talrt), ~ ball. 1 duties tioh a~ Y.ork Footba .pl;l.yed .footbaJ Mel Hj tor at honor All-sta the Gi Alumn Union All~ Am was se games nator Ketz, hamm• 1928 .. Wolve; in his ball cc center teams Lawre: is the Notre Coac your I we s: proph! skin E year t for t Dutch fore t Garne back, the R of Ha rep lac depth also under our ( with LawrE thrOU! Larri.E with schola the r worki of fift was e plus t had l time showt to wi Two Colle! the \ juniOJ in l!l the i hone~ Sane s S·J $.: c

.. x- n- % a v- e- a e- s, .. FR]DAY ~ SEPTEMBER 24. 1948 New Mentor For Stickmen rh.is Season SCORE!OARD Preseason Training Prepares Haf-riers LOOSE ENDS by ·fredWyatt Resigns~.· L·,ac. ·r·o sse ·M· en. tor ~Ketz Con_:fident in Minor glimpsei;; of immediate and pre-paunch da,ys of the faculty · St k\ ·N d · ~ R t d L tt : . Dick Roberts · HERB SAXE ...:...Presiden~ ,Davidson, along with. ·.·. arzens I . ,ame . '. e urne : e. er.mel ·'-======-==-========-=====- having' a general interest in sports, 'L = is Con . 81 .d·e._red a ·good tenn. is player Victor Starzenski was named· Union C_ ollege's distance run-. S h 1 • , I F th th' c h · ··t 1 . h tb' · <! oo aga1n. · ur · ermore. 1s season, oac and better thart average ,golfer, varsl Y · acrosse coac 1s summer ners are shaping up nicely under 1538 students, in various moods, :\IcLaughry will not b!' hampered Oul' PI'PXY wag al8o one of the by Pi·esident Davidson, to replace . the tutelage of Bill Ketz, until the greet the reopening of acadamic I by a lack of res!'n·es. More thnn chief instigatot•s in the movement .. F.ved Wyatt wh0 had to .vesign the . harriers show promise of being the year of 1948-49 here \on the hill.\ . fifty nwn t u·rned out for the first to start an lntel'collegiate confe 1 ~- position as_ a result of over: work · best cross-country team we've had Among thi~ number are 291 eager, workout. Thi's numbPr is· not ence al!long the .smaU Eastern in the Alumni Relations office. · here on the- \hi!J.'' in many a moon. green-capp~d freshil.len. And what uimini.,hc·d gren·llY todny. ThrrP .coUeges-Director of Atliletics, Hal When he resigned, Fred said, \No · Last year the \hill and dalers\ a yea.r, athletically speaking, 1948- arc three full teams with resPrves ·Wittner, Union '20 won three·· coach can do his job as lt should . , turned in a 3-2 season average, 49 may be. \'\at ing the Garnet jNseys. True majar letters as varsity football be done, unless. ·he is able to give which should have been at least This year, r feel that th:·ngs arc th<·n· is ~ first, ser•ond nnd third quarte~bacl{, four major letters ·as his full time to the· .game, and that a 4-1 average had: it not been for looking up, and wi11 continue look- t••ct m, hut thr rtiffrrrnrP in a·bility baseball catcher rtwo years as cap- is exactly what i cannot dd.\ ·the illness that ,prevented Newt ing up, until the draft makes itself hPtW!'Pn the ftr~t and thirrt teams tal!i), and a major lettet:. in basket-'· Wyatt, U!lion '32, coached the Culver, then team captain, from felt. Thi;o is the first :;eason since is not as gn•at ns th!' differenrP ball. Besides handling his college Garnet fr.eshman lacrosse team running against Middlebury. It before the war that Gnion has had bet Wl·rn the first nnd second teams duties Hal has earned a reputa- froni 1933 to 1940, and· from 1941-42 was Culver's absence that meant an adequate and competent conch- in p1 cvio11s year\. TherP is r.eal tioh as the \Dean .of Uplfe'r New and 1946\48 be has h!\olldl'ed the.· the difference between a win and ing staff. Further, the coaching d<•pth in all positions, n vPry im- Yor-k State Sports Officiators!'- varsity \nogginkr ,Since· a loss. Middlebury managed .to staff were all here last year; so portant fn!'tor in any sport. Football' coach John M(lLaligluY 1946,. Fred, has been in(ltrume!lta!'. eke out a 27-28 victory to give the that they know, and have had time, Grcnt!'r spirit is in evidence now, .played on the New York Giant . in getting the ·old Indian game.· Garnet its second loss last year. to work with the available talent. than in th<' imn1Pdinte post war .football team in 1940 along with back on its feet here at Union.·· : The other ·Garnet loss was to a Football closed last season with years. Psychologists say it was Mel Hein,. his predecessor as .men• Fred managed to fill the years be- · terrific Williams squad. a \not so hot\ 3-5 average. This the mature veteran who was re- tor at Union. McLl).ughry had the tween 1942 and 1946 by serv·ing Jn · Unlike other years, the harriers year I think the team should pick spnnsihlP for this a.pathy. This honor to co-captain the Eastern. tl:)e Naval Air Corps, coming out ef have been hard at work since last up momentum. True the services may be tr·ue at other schools; but I All-stars, in a .surplise win over, service as a lieutenant command·er. · August first and this month and a· of Hal Enstice will be sorely don't think .it holds water here at the Giants in 1940.~Divector of, At present he is commanding of- half of pre-season practice has missed; but perhaps this may ·be Union. Alumni Relatiqns, Fred Wyatt, fleer of the Nava:l Reserve ':Graining · begun to pay off dividends. Coach compensated for. The spirit was there: but there Urtion ~32, was a member of the group in Schenectady and Scotia. ' . Ketz renorts that he has already One of the big difficulties of was no intPgrntPd effort to show All~American lacrosse team which .AE.' a Union undergraduate Fred · run his charges around the com- small college football is the de- it. Spasmodic cheering, poor seat- was selected to .play at the Olympis made the all-north lacrosse squad · Vic Stal-zenski plate distance of the course. veloprnent of just such a star.· ing were l wo of the factors con- games !n Los Angeles-Co-ordi~ in 1932 ~d also wqn a spot on the · Photo .by Navias · The first .four spots on the squad With Enstice in, the Dutchmen trihuting to t.he so called decline nator of Student Activities. Bill All-America.il team which played in are already filled with returning played fair ball. Without Enstice, of college spirit. This spason there Ketz, University of Michigan '29, the Olympics in 1932. lettermen. These ·are Ed Belanger, things went badly. A stellar per- will be plenty of seats for every- hammer _throw .championship .in This is not the first year that the went over to England this summer team captain; Bob Garlock, Don former always tends to eclipse the hody. 1,500 new f'l'ats have been 1928 .. He was also captain of the Garnet stickmen have been under and won every game except one. Wright and Newt Culver. The five, team, without whom be would be added to increase .spectator capac- WolveJ.'ines' tTack and field teams the able direction of Vic Starzen- This lone ga¢e was against an· six and seven spots ·ai'e being hotly helpless. There is certainly noth- ity at AlexandPr Field. The cheer- in his senior year-Assistant foot- ski. It was \Star\ who first started Al~\English team. contested by Don Brightman, Fred ing derogatory aimed at Enstice; leaders have heen taken under the ball coach Art Lawrence, played . coaching the te!l-IDS here. at Union: As one· of the most l'abid lacrosse Steigert, Abe Lakeshin, ·l!l; transfer· but I firmly believe that a man '';ing of the Student Council, which center on Purdue's great footbaH in ;1.922. To make his position still ·enthusiasts, \Star\ introduced la- student from Champlain and T. who played ball like Enstice did, measure will, I hope, do something teams of '31, '32, '33. One of Coach more unique, Vic, who graduated crosse to the University of New· MacCoun. did in certain respects, hold the to clear up the shoddy cheering we Lawrence's most beloved memories from Stevens in 1907, started the: Mexico and surrounding Indian With still plenty ·of time before other members of the team back. had last year. And last, but not is the 19-0 pasting Purdue gave old Indian game on our rival cam- schools in 1946. For this work Vic they open at Burlington against Not intentionally, of course; but least, I have a faint idea that the Notre Dame in 1933. pus in Troy. Both Union .and RPI was awarded a certificate from the the Catamounts of Vermont on unconsciously, the other members Sophomore Discipline Committee have gone a long way with the Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association October-15, the DutcP,men will be of the football squad did not play will take no idle interest in the sport that Vic Starzenski started, the individ_ual who had done tlie · working out all the wrinkles and their best. Perhaps it was a Jack spirit displayed by the new fresh- * * * * Coach John McLaughry. gave your pencil pusher -6 poip.ts. which we should all consider before prophesying on the forecoming pig- skin season. 1. This is the first year the 'i' formation will be used . for the complete season. (The Dutchmen switched to the T be- fore the Willi-ams game, after the Garnet's great single wing tail- back, Hal Enstice, was i'njured in · the R.P.I. battle.)' 2. Union's loss of Hal Enstice will be dffficult to replace. 3. The tear:n has more depth in nearly all poSitions, and also has , last year's experience under their belts. 4. Nearly all of our opponents will be stronger with the possible exception of St. Lawrence, who lost beaucoup men through gra(!uation, However, the Larries always manage to come up with a winning club. (Via the scholarship route.) 5. This season the Dutchmen's coaching staff is working with a hand picked squad of fifty men. Last year any man was eligible to report for practice, plus the fact that the Garnet squad l:lad spring practice for the first time since 1941. 6. The team has shown it has the drive and spirit to win football games. 0 *. * * Cleat Sparks Two men f1·om Alba,ny Pharmacy College are nraking strong bids for the varsity squad; !Pete Delsanto, junior who played. ~t Holy Cross in 1946 while stationed there in the V-12 program, and Paul Ma• honey;• junior, a graduate of La- Salle of Troy. A COMPLETE STOCK of SPORTS EQUIPMENT STATE SPORTING GOODS 202 S+at-e Str~et $·ERVING UNION'S ltfEN FOR YIARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Poot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 I.H STATE Near .FERRY as witness th,e RPI squad that most for lacrosse in 1946. just biding their time, of confidence in thems1Ives. men. Bow, hi·gh you go I.N THE U.S. AIR FORCE? The ceiling's unlimited! Men who enter the Air Force as Aviation Cadets become 2nd lieutenants within a-year. From there on, they can climb asfar and as fast as their ability and the needs of the service permit. Under the Air Force expansion program, there is plenty of room .for advancement. 2nd Lieutenants auto- matically become 1st Lieutenants after three years· of service; are eligible to become Cap- tains, Majors and lieutenant Colonels after 7, 14 and'21 years respectively; More rapid pro- -motions are frequent. Never before hos the ~pportunity for making the Air Force a perma- nent career been so favorable, especiolly to the men in Aviation Cadet Pilot Training. Here are the requirements: Appointment to the Aviation Cadets Is op~n to single men, between 20 and 26% years old, who have completed two years of college {or can pass an equivalent examination). Upon graduation, Cadets receive their wings and commission, a $250 uniform. allowance, and three-year active duty assignment with pay up to $336 a month. Get full details at any Air Force Base or elf any U, S. Army cmd U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station. U, le ARMY AND U. So AIR FORCI U·C.Riil-f.ING IIRYIU ••• \ ·ke yesterdaY seems ' d ,, that l starte • In the Telephone business . .. for 21 years! \It may seem like a long time to you ... but to me it's just like yesterday that I started. \Guess that's because it's always been interesting .. . always so many phases of the business to learn .. . always something different and vital to do . . \Right now I'm one of 125,000 men and women who have been in telephony for 21 years or more. They call us the 'Telephone Pioneers of America.' \I've seen the telephone industry come a long way- improving methods, developing new means of com- munications, constantly growing .. But in many fields we've hardly scratched the surface; we're still pioneer- ing. The future is full of challenges, and opportunitiesi\ BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

\ ' l • l I ' ' 4 1 I I FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER. ~4u 1948 WRUC SCHEDULE y I THURSDAY TIME 6:00P.M. 7:00 7:15 7:30 • MONDAY 1 TUESDAY. ·'Y_]i;~~E_S~~ --suiidown--~-sundown~ I Sundown. Serenade* Serenade* Serena.de Garnet ·Club* Garnet Club* Garne~, Club \ Sports Let's Dance Sports \ Stu. Coun. 7:45 Concordy - Requestfull Yours 8:00 RequestfttlJY · Study in y 8:15 Yours Jazz 8:30 Saludos y ' 8:45 Amigos --::-:=----1·--,::::--:-:---~--1----r::---. ~-- -Sho•;·boa·t 9:00 Collectors In the \ 9;15 Showcase Bandbox Set·enade 9:30 Twin Band. Puerto Rico•• Showboat 9:45 Time March Time Serenade 10:00 The w:Ruc- Music Hall --arid the --=1\'1- by tfelcdies by -Melodies b Moonlight* Moonlight* Moonlight' _!2~--- ___ Si~n_Q..ff ______ Sign Off Sig~._S)_ff_ , ,;:-N.:=-:-Ne\ghbors *TX-Transcription \, Sundown Serenade* Garnet Club•· \ Let's Dance \ Piano Portraits Saludos Amigos Tra'veloge Lets be N** ·Treasury TX D. Rose 0. Music of-- Melodies by Moonlight* Sig_n Off FRIDAY SATURDAY Sundown Dinner· Music Serenade* Garnet Club* , \ Sports , \ Requestfully Dance Yours Time \ \ Ft·ench TX G. E. 'l'X \ Twin Band Time the Masters*· _R,equest Melodies by \ Moonlight* ' Sign Off Sign Off G1•oup shown discussing advisability of a Reserve Officers' Training Corps at Union Round- CAR RS AT GENER!\L ELECTRIC: table session on regular Monday night 'Concm·dy Speaks' broadcast over WRCU. Left to Joseph Enzer, editor of the Idol, A1•thur K. Davis, Associate Professor of Sociology, George T. Orick, editor of The Concordiensis, Fredel'ick Wyatt, director of alumni relations, and Donald Cregier, Concordiensis · staff writer. THE SHADOW REMAINS Last June one of the greatest of Union's contemporary athletes, Hal Ent\tice was graduated from these walls leaving behind him a football squad many anobserver believed would be a mere shell of its former self. Fortunately, however, these dour predictions have been proved false, as anyone who has watched the Gamet ~crimmage these past weeks can truth- fully testify. They have shown themselves to be a gl'Dup pt·epared to take on all opposition admirably, a fact which we believe will be demonstrated ably \'enough tomorrow after- noon, as well a~ throughout the coming season. This does not mean, however, that Union has forgotten Enstice Ol' ever will. The athletic prowess which he showed at all times will be recalled at many a dinner table years from today. That he formed an important part of the Union scene is a fact that will long be remembered by all who knew hil]1. SUSKIND LOSS HURTS LIBERALS Liberal forces here and elsewhere have lost a man of un- usual courage and faith in his convictions. Leonard Suskind, who was killed recently, devoted his energies to causes which will probably never be popular: Housing for all, true adher- ence to the right to freedoms we all profess and an end to persecution of minorities. Opponents of true democracy have gained by his death. atnurnr ::>~ember Associated Col- legiate l'ress and distri- butor of the Collegiate I Jige:-:t. XaUonal Advt:'r- tbin).?; Ht-presentative: ~a­ tiona! Ad verti~ing Service, Inc., College Publishers Hepresentative. 420 Madi- ''m Ave_, !'!. Y. C. Pub- lt,hed every Friday of the ~ehonl year. Editorial Uffi~e. \\'a;;hburn Hall. Union College, Pub- lication Office, The ·Qa- zette Pre~s. 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class l\la!l Matter, subscription 10c a copy; $3 year; delivered any- where in the United States. i\IANAGI:SG BOARD {leorge T. Oril'k ........... , ....... , .. , .. , ...................... Editor Albert !'orbo ........................................ :IIanaglng Editor James 'I urray., ....................... , ............... , , :!\'ews Editor Herbert saxe .. , .................. ,.,,,, .. ,, ... , .... , .. ,Sports Editor Robert Ht>lnemann .... ,,.,,, ........... ,., .. , ............ Photo Editor James A. B114tr,,,,,, .. ,.,.,, ... , .. ,., ................ Assorlate Editor Franl'is Jieellan .. ,,,.,,,,,, .................... , .Cir<'Uiatlon 1\lnnager LambHt Ginsberg, ................................. Business :l\lanager THE FINEST IN RECORDED MUSIC R. C. A. Victor Columbia Decca Capitol Featuring The NEW LONG PLAYING COLU'MBIA RECORDINGS Roberts Piano Company 203 State Street Corner Ferry Street WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. H-EADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State crnd Centor Sta. Pre-Meds to Meet Dr. Leonard Clark, chairman of the Pre-Medical Training commit- tee, has announced a meeting of all Pre-Medical and Pre-Dental stu- dents, V~-ho are planning to apply for admission ,to medical or dental schools for classes beginning in September 1949, to be held in room 205 of the Biology Building Sept. 29 at 4:30p.m. It has also been announced by Dr. Clark that any of the above mentioned students who wish to take the Medical College Admis- sions Test, previously .called the Medical Aptitude Test, should se- cure !!PPlications and information bulletins from Miss Pangburn in the Biology Lab office any morn- ing b~ginning Sept. 27. Rojansky Honored Vladimir Rojansky, Professor of Physics and former chairman of the department, was one of 7 scien- tists who received Presidential Cer- tificates of Merit S€pt. 23 for serv- ices during the last war. This cer- tificate was in appreciation of the part Rojansky played in national defense. Freshmen! Leave Your Clothes At WGY LAUNDRY 4-Day Service Shirt Specialists • 520 UNION AVE. 3 Blocks from Campus for OR General Electric Is not one ·business, but an organ• ization of many businesses, offering opportunities in virtually all the professions. Here three G·E men brief opportunities offered the ·METALLURGIST •• , GAS TURBINE ENGINEER,,. NUCLEAR SPECIALIST METAI:LURGIST Dr. Zay Jeffries, G-E vice president and an emi- nent metallurgist: \One of.the fields .where metal- lurgists still have much to do is in permanent magnet engineel'ing; Here are opportunities not only to pioneer new applications bun also to develop better alloys and techniques: Many in• ' dustrial applications await only the ingenuity of the design engineer.'~ GAS TURBINE ENGINEER Alan Howard, directing gas-turbine development: \We are building the country's first gas·ttu:bine for a utility;; • are testing a 4800 hp unit for loco• motives; Developments like these are creating an ever greater qemand for men who can handle tough problems in thermodynamics, combustion, control processes, and metallurgy.'~ -~-------~--------------~--------- NUCLEAR SPECIALIST Dr. K; H; Kingdon, heading atomic power de· velopment in the Research Laboratory: \It is a mistake to think than atomic energy work has room only for nrtclear physicists; The need is also for men who understand thermal conductiv• icy, heat transfer, corrosion, hydrodynamics, and measurements of thermal conductivity.'' For (urther InFormal/on a&out a BUSINESS coreer with General Electric, write Businou Training Course, ~ehenoclaclv-a career In TECHNICAL FIELDS, write Technical Personnel Division, Scheneclac/y, N • .y, GENERAL. ELECTRIC COMING YOUR WAY! $5.95 r-c-GABANARO\ by ARROW UGABANARO'' Just received-a grand gabardine sports shirt-good looking, long-wearing, and completely washable. Tailored· with Arrow's traditional skill, Gabanaro is a shirt you will be proud to wear. Let lis show you the \Gabanaro\ today. NUSBAUM'S ----FOR ARROW SPORTS S'HIRTS--,___j Here's a rugged d h . Arrow' an andsome shirt of rayon gabardine that s sports shirt ex t d· • per s estgned for action plus comfort. Gabanaro comes · Iobei d f 10 several smart colors and is Sanforset* c or complete washability $5 95 ·w·u • • • · ' never shrink or stretch out of fit. ARROW • . . )> S H I R T S a n d T lE S UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS. • SPORTS SHIRTS C·( OJ F« PI F( P1 P1 A sistii two has , spre~ Educ thro1 are 1 abou colle: the 1 The Bowd arriv~ ··select would an financ has b tratio the s• and has I ternii Alt: ity ~ positi any any the I one ~ list l Inter York the 1 sired Th• collel plan land, Jose] Neth Delb g.ues- Gree Herr. -ofF Hoa, and of A To · Of St1 elect chaJ: sent: time trod· Di ball< tio:P.: slatE T-1 the lots chaJ ther fusi1 enti tain min now 12. A den· Jim Pre: and for carr den the It cha ten• D exp con riel c tiOl of viti sirE