1948 No roup on n of a for Omega, A in four orig- only. became meetings Bailey Monday, dent Af- the was felt fra- of dues, not The to com- e facul_!:.;¥ three 1) cam- sufficient for at part d that a found to on man- the be- expanded are direc- in- ,, • Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 70, No. 25 SCHENE.CTADY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1948 PRICE 1 0 CENTS Council Erases Publications Cuts In Secret. Vote, Cleric·Hits C t D G catholics in . ramp on; ean . arner Chapel Rites; Top Honors at Prize Day .Several Exit The Union C?llege Stud~nt Coun~il voted in a ~ecret ballot Last Sunday some half last Tues~ay .mght to abohsh salan~s for the .editors. C?f Col- dozen Union undergraduates lege pubhcatwns. The one exception to this aJbohtwn of rose from their seats in Mem- cuts, according to the plan. as it now stands·, is the adver- orial Chapel half way through tis~ng staffs. Men working on adverti~ing will b~ al!owed Dr. Arthur Cushma:n McGif- ~ A partly-filled Memorial rr======================.-i Chapel witnessed on May a fifteen percent take out of all the momes they hnng m. fert's sermon and indignantly Freshman Proposal '• left the service. The sermon, Idol Con test Gre·at Success George Hendon, .freshman repre- R [ R l . thoHgh untitled, was a com- sentative, was expected to present . · e ax .· U .· es parison of the Protestant and the motion; but he was tardy for the meeting and it was necessary On D.z·tness Catholic religions. The creative spirit and sensiti- vity for the written word is very much alive on the Union College Campus according to one of the Board of Judges of the Idol Con- test after the announcement of the prize winners was made in the Prize Day -exercises. ing the necessary financial ar- rangements; such a volume if published would be separate from the regular issues of the quar- terly magazine. for freshman Sam New.comer to .Jl 1 Charges Political Action make the proposal. The motion was seconded by Harry Petrak, another of the six freshmen repre- sentatives. Before the plan could be voted on, Walt Doran, proxy for Ed Carsky, proposed that the ballot be taken ·secretly. The motion for anonymity was carried, predomin- ately, by those who had been in the forefront in the fight against cuts. Compromise Fails During the discussion which pre- ceded the voting. Don Blake, junior member of the Student Tax Committee,. outlined that commit- tee's suggestion for the reduction of cuts by approximately fifty p·er- cent. The Tax Committee;s re- commendation was, in effect, a compromise, aimed at satisfying the two factionS'. Even though the Tax Committee had looked thor- oughly into the matter during the past few weeks, there was no con- sideration given their recommenda- tions. The final vot·e was eleven to seven for the abolition of pub- lications' sa1aries. Aroused by the secrecy which shrouded the ballot taken. on the cut situation, Ken Mciver, moved that in the future all issues of im- portance should he decided by a. roll call vote. The importance of the issue in question would be de- cided by the chairman. This mo- tion was defeated .. By defeating this motion for . open balloting, several members ·Of the recently organized political parties repudiated the very plat- form on which they were elected. In their platforms these men said they felt that the student body should be fully aware of the action taken by the student body, It was also voted, o.penly this time, to make next yeai'S fresh- man class wear green, rather than black caps, and large identifying name pins. The Faculty Council this week passed the long sought modification of the extra-cur- ricular activities eligibility rules permitting full-time stu- dents greater freedom of par- ticipating in these activities. Originally sponsored by the Committee on Student Affairs and Relations, the proposal was passed after a study of eligibility rules at other col- leges similar to Union. Dr. McGiffert among other things stated that the Catholic Church was involved in political matters and was therefore unable to avoid corruption. Though the speaker did not mention the Italian elec- tions references to the part which the Pope recently played in sup- port of the Christian Democrats were thinly veiled. The Union undergraduates made their walk-out approximately half way through Dr. McGiffert's ser- mon when he referred to the Catholic necessity for an emissary to interpret the word of God. Lower Scale \Protestantism needs no emis- In essence the new rules provide sary here on earth to interpret that a student having an index less the word of God in comparison than 1.00 cannot participate in any· with Catholicism,\ stated Dr. Me- extra-curricular activity; a student Giffert. having an ind-ex between 1.000 and The Catholic Church was fur- 2.000 is allowed to participate in ther condemned for the suppression one restricted activity and any of educational advancement which number of unrestricted activities;; had always been fostered· by the with an inCiex above 2.000 unlimited Protestant faiths. Matters relat- participation in an~r number of ac- ing to the use of Catholic dogma in tivities, both l'estricted and unre- substitution of the Bible were men- stricted, is permitted. All of the ti oned at this time. above rules apply both in and out Ordained in 1917, Dr. McGiffert ·Of Schenectady; the former rule of served as pastor of All Souls limited participation while in the Church in Lowell, Mass. from 1920- city and no participation while out- 1926; professor of Christian thea- side the city has been eliminated. logy at Chicago Theological Sem- Activiti'es designated as restricted inary, 1926-1939; president of the are: Pacific School of Religion, 1939- lnterc·ollegiate atheltics, Con- 1945; and since 1946 has been presi- cordiensis, Idol, Garnet, band, glee dent of the Chicago Theological club, Philomathean society, Mounte- Seminary. banks, the officers of UCCA, WRUC, Outing Club, and IRC. All other .activities are classed as un- restricted. -~-o--~ Chapel to Jump As Agnello Plays Burton E. Feldman and Daniel Smythe were awarded $350 as first prizes; Daniel Smythe was also presented with second prize of $150; three third prizes of $100 each were awarded to Neil Van Allen, S. Charles DeMatteo and Clarkson N. Pot- ter. The winners were selected from approximately three hun- dred individual pieces of writing submitted to the contest. It was the unanimous opinion of the judges that the material ex- ceeded all expectations, and de- spite strong personal standa.rdr, .the committee further felt that the generous monetary awards were in parity with the quality of the contributions. The judges were impressed with the success of the contest to the point wh~re they strongly suggested that a collection of the winners and other worthy works submitted be published in a bound volume. The IpOL Editorial Board stated that the suggestion of the judges Is now und·er consideration pend- Feldman's entry was described as a fictional panorama of a night in a metropilotan city; Smythe's two efforts were both collected volumes of verse; the third prizes were all collections of short stories, several of which had previously appeared in for- mer issues of the IDOL. There were a number of entries considered by the judges worthy ·of awards, and in other contests where the competition might not have been as severe, they cer- tainly would have been substan- tially rewarded. But in view of the $100 minimum stipulation, the board felt that it would be unfair to the prize-winners to give equal recognition to the others, and it would also have produced a false sense of im- portance to such contributions. And so it was deciced to com- mend eight of these entrants, and their work will be included in the proposed volume. The fn:- lowing men received ho!'lorn ble mention: Ivan McDonald, Don- ald Mealy, Anthony J. Eastc;r- brook, Jay Bottomley, Albert Lyles, .James Dorrill and Harry Lazer. Mohawk Is Third Straiglzt Victim of Eager Ketzmen The Garnet cindermen rolled over their third straight opponent when they easily topped the l\lohawk trackmen 78-53, yesterday, at the loser's home track. Although the Dutchmen led all the way, their advantage was pressed One pr-ovision of the new rules gives the Student Discipline Com- mittee the power to restrict the ac- tivities of any particular student, regardless of this index, if they see fit. The present rules pertaining to freshman are not affected by \Pastel Shades,\ a concert in throughout the meet. this new ruling. Philharmonic jazz, will be the fea- The margin of the Garnet vic-~--------------- ture performance of the year of the· tory was made possible by the Union College Dance Band, under ability of the Ketzmen to place the direction of Art AngeUo. second in eleven of the fifteen Hogs, Smoke, Fine Arts Create Interview Setting The program will be presented events as the Dutchmen were able Wednesday, May 19, in Memorial to garner only eight first place Chapel at 8:30. Admission is free. points. Thi£1 is the first chance the group Rwming Conditions Poor has had to appear in public due to The Mohawkmen ha.d a definite a ruling by the American Federa- advantage over the Dutchmen. tion of Musicians, Local 85. Having previously practiced on Sig Xi Gives Plaque Honors Ellery The National E.xecutive Commit- tee of the Society of the Sigma Xi . The band will present a program their home track the Red and Blue By Joseph Enzer Of approximately twelve numbers was prepared for the track condi- initiation of eighteen new members that follow somewhat the style and tions, which were the worst the d · t b · t th were present at Union College on Thursday, May 6, for the presenta- tion of a memorial tablet and the In decrying the artist's position in American life, Miss Ray Lev, outstanding, young, concert pianist, vehemently suggested that a Fed- eral Bureau of Fine Arts need be established on a comparable basis with some of the currently existing departments such as the ones that supervise the ·health and happiness of hoge. Miss Lev was heard Monday evening by one of the most enthus- iastic audiences of the Union Col- lege Concert Series since . the war. After the program we visited her in the small cubicle of Memorial Chapel where she received many well-wishers; she was surrounded by numerous friends, much smoke and the ecstatic gurglings of newly converted admirers. During the high point rush of the mob, Miss Lev's well-trained eye spotted .our naive attempt to ape Hollywood's version of the disdainful and hard\ ened critic. She pleasantly shooed away her friends and emptied tbe room in order to get down to the business at hand. We found it quite unnecessary to adopt the role of indifferent reporter, in fact it was difficult to esca;pe the influence of her sensitivity and fire which had been previously empJ.oyed to magni- ficent advantage on the concert stage. We became involved in the ques- vein of Stan Kenton and his band. Garnet tracksters have had to run an assocta e mem ers m 0 e tl ·on of th · · t' t · Union College chapter. e aspinng ar IS m our The whole program will be unortho- under. present society, and learned from dox because the tunes are almost Mohawk Man High Scorer At 5:30 p.m., at the Administra- Miss Lev the story of an individual all arranged especially for the col- The best individual performance tion Building, Dr. Carl Anderson, struggle which undoubtedly repre- lege orchestra and are different of the afternoon was turned in by Nationa·l President of the Society, sents the early beginnings .of the from the usual stock arrangements. Hunt of Mohawk, who picked up presented to the College, represnted majority of American artists who They have been designed to make twenty points for the Red and by President Carter Davidson, a have yearned for status within the more. use of the abilities of the men Blue trackmen by grabbing first. plaque bearing the following in- National pattern. as musicians and will allow for place spots in the 100 yard dash, scription: \The Society of the more interpretation of the tunes the 220 yard dash, the 120 yard Sigma Xi, Scientific Research So- Miss Lev, at the age of 17 • via the arrangements. high hurdles, and the 220 yard low ciety of America, records here its travelled abroad on a New York d f th hurdles. lasting gratitude to Union College PhHharmonic Society Scholarship Agnello, popular lea er 0 e OJJ 1 'e Personeous was hi'gh scorer g h d th at he will for generous aid through the years and was also a wi·nner of the Matt- roup, as announce f.or the Garnet with eleven points. 1921 to 1940 while Dr. Edward hay prize which provided neophyte present a fifteen piece orchestra He came in second in the 100 and artists with intensive musical train- complete wi.th Miss Marion Mahl 2 d h . 1 t Ellery was serving with great dis- of Schenectady as Vocal ist. Main 20 yard as es, and hts 9 fee tinction as Secretary of the So- ing in London. It was here· that. and 4n 'nche was good f fi cJ'ety.\ choruses will be taken by Larry · 72 1 8 or ve Miss Lev first realized the neglect points in the broadjumping event. ---0•--- on the part of American officialdom Gray and Ken MacDonald on the Ken Whalen was runnerup for towards talented students. Where trumpets and Cliff Casey and Roger scoring laurels for the Dutchmen WRUC JOI.llS Rete the embassies of other participants Schroeder on the saxophones. Miss b . t f h' fi t . th d' Mahl is currently' appearing .on Y Vir ue 0 Is rs s m e IS- would personally su,pervise the cus and the shotput. study and professional appearances \Kidding on the Keys\ over WRGB Wright and Culver were tied for of their constituents, the American every Friday night at 7. first place in the mile run and the embassy was icily unaware of the Two of the numbers to be pre- 880 yard run. Belanger finished existence of the American repre- sented are Union College originals, first in the two mile run, and sentatives at the Matthay .School. Moonstruck and Torch Song. These Thurston, Keever, Wright, and Miss Lev firmly believes that. the were written by Charles DeMatteo Culver won the mile relay for the Federal Government's attitude to- •and Vincent DeBaun as part of a Garnet. wards all art is reflected in her musical show. The songs have been Although the Union cindermen personal experiences. In contrast to arranged for the band by ·Fred defeated Mohawk, it was a moral America's infant cultural tradition, Pratt, their baritone man. Pratt· upset as Union entered the meet our engaging visitor pointed out has also turned out a special job as a top-heavy favorite to swamp that in Europe every eommunity 'on \Nature Boy\ and has combined the Red and Blue as decisively as l'egardless of size has its own opera with leader Agnello <Jn an arrange- they had swamped Hamilton and hoUse and music conservatory. ment of \Laura\ for the vocalist. Trinity in their two previous meets. Station manage1· Robert H:..rt- well announced today that WRUC will join the Empire Network this Monday. The first network pro- gram to be broadcast over the Union College rac.io station will be at nine in the evening, The sta- tion will continue broadcasting net- work programs at this same hour, five nights a week until it leaves the air for the summer. Key stations in th~ Empire Net- work are WVBR of Cornell and WRUR of Rochester. 6 the annual recognition of outstanding members of the student body. The traditional Prize Day ceremomes were 'con- ducted by Dr. Carter Davidson, president. High honors of the day were bestowed upon Charles F. Crampton who was awarded the Catlin Prize of $1000 for demonstrating the most promise of success in graduate work. Crampton, whose hom'e is in Bayport, N. Y., is the holder of both a Grumman Aaircraft Cor- poration and a New York State Scholarship. He is a di- visional major in science. WarnPr Prize The Warner Prize awarded an- nually to the student attaining the highe>\t standing in the perform- ance of his collegiate duties was given to Edward V. Chimelewski of Alb3ny. The prize is a silver loving cup. Also receiving a big honor was Lyall Dean in the form of the Dagget Prize given to a student demonM.rating high character and conduct throughout his under- graduate career. Dean has been active in the Glee Club and Choir, the Delphic Society, and the Inter- national Relstions Club during his time at Union. He is a member of the Kappa Alpha Society. Guest speaker for the day was Dr. Joseph W. Barker, President of the Research Corporation, who addressed the student body on the subject of \Creative Research.\ Dr. Barker emphasized the need for properly trained men who would be capable of research of the type conducted by the Curie'S'. \We must not ldll the goose that lays the golden egg,\ asserted Dr. Barker in reference to the pro- posed draft and UMT. The following men were an- nounc<>d as having be<>n elected to the Delphic Society: Philip Brady, William Copeland, John DeBello, Joseph Enzer, Paul Fitting, James Flynn, Byron George, Alan Gow- man, James Hogeboom, Bernard McGivern, M itch e I I Rabbi no, Charles Stewart, William Warner, Kenneth Whalen, William O'Neill, and Richard Roberts. The complete list of other win- ners includes: Allen essay prize for the best es- my submitted by a senio1·: Edgar C. Leonhardt, Fond11> $25. Allison prize for intercollegiate debating: Roger A. Williams, Du- buque, Ia., $30: Ralph M. Nestle, Gloversville, $20; Fremont C. Van Patten, Schenectady, $'10. Archibald high scholarship prize for the senior literature student with the highest average: SebnMian C. DeMatteo, Schenectady, $60. Bailey prize, a silver cup to the senior rendering the greatest serv- ice to the c.ollege: Jack C. Tway, Oklahoma City Donald Coulter debating prize: Anthony J. Esterbrook, Bristol, England, $75. Elias Peis=er prize-a set of books for the senior most proficient in Germanic studies: Edward V. Chmielewski, Albany. Fuller prizes in chemistry to .a sophomore nnd a senior s·howing the greatest proficiency in chemis- try: Paul F. Silva '48, South Glens Falls. $20; Robert E. Hayes, '50, HempM.ead, $20. Goodrich-Duane prizes for ex- temporaneous debating: Anthony J. Easterbrook, Bristol, England, $50; Donald Sirkin, New Yorl{, $30. Hecl{-Steingut prize for pro- ficiency in go~ernment: Robert F; Risley, Horseheads, $100. Ingham pl'ize for proficiency in social studies: Ivan H. Scheier, Plattsburg, $75. Leonard Chester Jones memorial <Continued on Page 6)

,;.1' •i .\ ' ·.; ~ .... i ',1 \ ·~ I I ;, ,, 2 FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1'948 Factory Substation or College? The Happy Hour By ]ames A. Baar A youngish dean in an oldish eastern colleg·e once l'emal'keJ quite candidly in one of his most sel'ious moments that \each student ts an in vestment for the college.\ \\'hilt> this is undouhtE>dl~· a truism since the c,,]lt-;.:t· l><t;• > 11ll\ gt~<ot! hanl·L'<tllll'd th part- l<ll\'111 ,;ton• ine\lllL' till' l'oll\'L'I'Sl' presl•nts <til '''111::11: i1• 1 ri:.>.u.in~.·· point of YiP\\', .-\11.1 ,..\tltteltl 11 i1-u .- .. ign,; lti,., life <tl\it,\' ll.utlr ~·.'al- tit;tt i:') \\ht•Jl he agTL'L':i to abitk• by tl1v ruh·~ ••f l'nicon ( 1 'or in,-taiH'L') I'L'l't'i\'PS .: li:·, tink',; ln:tiHI he IS once and for <tll '' \l'niull man.\ ::\'o11·, it is therefoR' his duty to plulPd his iHvestment by in:;pl'd- ing pcriodil'ally what his al111a nwh'l' b do- mg· lt• dL•,.,en·e t ];p appl'll:ttion \eolll'gP.\ .-\g·ain pointing till' finger at Cnion (this tinw. murL' :;pL'l'ifieally), this writel' sees ~ign,.; t>f tkll'riot·;tlion into hun•aueracy. lm- Pl'll'L'Ptthl.\·, hut ratlwr rapidly, Wl' arr out- ... , ... 1in~· til,· .~:ll;t!l-collc:.:·e :ttmo~phere. ~t:md­ ;nlizatiun kts bt'l'OIIIL; a ~~~-~~on!; supet·-ur- g·aniZl'\) confusiii!I permt>att>.:-; .student acti- ,·itie:; ... the! t• arL' eunstitutio11s fot· every- thing fl'llll\ l'Olllll'i]:; to L'Oill'ltl>iJil'S: tlll' \\'ill- illg' faculty lliL'Illllt'l·,; arP saddiPd with nwm- bL'l ,.hip 111 the countll•,;s \important\ ~md l'll!l:'Littth-ili-'-L':i\illll contmittecs; slowlr. the .ioh of l<';tehin·~· is hecollling· more ilnportant than the t ,·aeh t•r, :ts i\ PVidriWt'd h.1· tlw \lll- illt'llliunt·d Lut illi[JlL'\i\e tur!lu\cl' 111 UH.' English and Elect ril'al E11gineet·ing depmt- nwnts. In an~· lnt n~auaacy (we are told), one of the ::;triking clwradei\istil's is the imperson- ality uf juiJ relationships. The system's mhots eoncl'rn themselves with adm ini:;:;tra- \ j, •n nf t!:c ,,ystt•m's endles;; rignramolr. Their .\L'l'Oiltl main l'unctiun rests in fully molding· thL' UIJ;:..U::;pL•ding enlistee (ol' ftesh- 111:111) i11to t IH• pat te.m of confot·mit~·; these hun•aucra t s al>lwr deviation, ::-ince both the had and good l\inds make them look ettually fnoli:;li. Tlw ease or cuts eolnes to mind. This rigid di\ciplirw represents one of the mon' back- ll'ard pha,;t•:i of education:tl philosophy. The ineu111in~· freshm:m, instead of having· his Sl'll='t' of pl'!'snmtl and intelleetual responsibil- ity dt>wlorA•cl. finds hi...; sprc:mting wings clipped. l!i:; L'ntirL' colll'ge life becomes tll'ivnted. not to :;tudy, but to calculated gold- bricking. The student council reflected this at tit udL• \\'hl'n it t>Xct~pted the incoming class from its otht>nl'ise commendable free-cut re- t·ommPJHiation. They need Pxception least! Tile point is it \\'oultl be wiser to teach the youngPr :;tudPnt:;; to think and net for them- seln'\ :md to take responsibility for their o\Yll actions. Too much of teaching now oeeurs in the administration building, where a eommittee of higher-ups decides on such per,.;onalized intangibles as the weighing of one course's benefits in an overall education. Trust en)xerHlers tt·ust. Hegulations plead for breakage. If the student were initially infunncd that his attendance at cluss, his mot·al conduct, his drinking. and so forth rester! on his 0\\·n judgment, I believe he \\ uuld n·.~pond nolJb· with the aid of his uppe~das~llll'll (trained 111 the same almos- pherP) and ll is instl'uetor:;:;, Can it be that absence rules, et al, are mei'ely showpieces for apprel.eusin• p:trents '? Is it infatuation for one',; own \adult matmitv\? Is it the bureauemtic preoccupation \\:ith more and more administrative regulations? Or is it a t:1cit admission of incompetence in tt·ain- rn~ a stliclent ~~~- any other means than Capsule Culture The walk-out staged by a handful cogency of Dr. McGifferf!s a1·gu- .little importance. What matters is forceably impressing the man into pat little f th ments but the vel.'Y .fact thta hei that there is little doubt that Dr. of Union undergraduates rom e was a'·tlowed to ·spea!{ on such a: B·r~.w·n had !•no~·n ·for some time .of molds? Perhaps a little more compu'lsory ~ ' \ 11:00 service last Sunday held in topic at an. :his coming ~nd had sufficient op- chapel would correct this situation, this Memorial Chapel is of considerable· 'l'he Union College sunday Chapel por.tunity to msuve the fact that he training for negativism. importance to every man connected ·progEams are supposedly in accord- .knew of the circumstances existing Anothe1· sympt01n of bureaucracy seen1s with Union College today. Not only ance with the policy o~ the CoUege, he1•e. This being the ·case there are .\11 l:L' that no one eare~ \\'hat the next g-uy. du .. s 11 st..nd ns a t•trong protest tlsl'lf, non-denotllinntion:d. ThPy arP two conC'Iusions which can be is ch 1 ing·, as long as the thing hl'eeds and no .md geher,al black eYe to tile Office set up as programs at which all :drawn, namely, that either Dr. of the Chaplain which is respon- creeds may come and worship.; Brown neglected to infarm Dr. Mc- Wl'i1tl'll I'Uk!\ :ll'l' hroken. Complicated J~Ub- ~tLie hH mviting guest !Jreacher<~, ;o,;, 0 ,.,.here in suc•h .an anangcmentGiffut that his s('rmon rr.ust ·be lie I'L•Iatiull.S (a:; inchap'lain incident) IJecullieS t..ut it is u \\ullling to the College ts ther~ a !Jlacc fur a ,·etmon rom-.·non-derwmi\utional. or he h8d done a dv,;pt•rate nlll,.;t if the machir·ll'l'Y is to func.. ts a whole of what c~n be Pxpected paring the Prote>'lant -and Catholic so and was not heeded. 1 ioN .. more wastl'd time and rffnrL \\'hat m time to con:e if certain ideas> faiths or the compar-ing of any. If, however, the latter is trUe, it E \'ell !JhUtte<.l in fettHe minds now; faiths. The Union CoUege chancel' · 1 ·s certal·n t·hat Chaplain Brow. n ah(.J\\t this field house, sons of Union'? vi- d d [.mnuinent on the campus are al- i~. not now,. an : never was, e-; would be well aware of the fact, dcntly, the sponsor was gi\'en the g-reen lo\\ed to take root and mature. :srgncd to be a p~ .ce wh_ere a smanj and that 1 ealizing the .embarra::>slng lig-ht to solicit half a million dollars when That Dr. McGi.ffert's sermon was b~nd of. sectari~ns with. nB;rrow blunder would have apologized by ot hPJ' segments of the college are crying for a biased to the point of being obvi- rmn~s rr:tght ~a1se ecclestastlcallyi open letter or chapel.annoutrcement ously anti-Catholic there can be no .partisan q~.t:st~ons. Unfortunately.; to the Student Body. Since· he has JW\\' lbily Hall. or a new chem lab, or a new duubt. Though there is no copy of however, th1s ts exactly what has· done neither of taese things, we fine arts building. Does this perform the it extant today, corroboration of !ake? plact>, a-nd we must th~refore: can therefore assume that either same function as the recently-instituted this fact can be had by asking any t:aqm_r•e as to who w responsible. the former conc!~.tsion is true, and \llllll'l' pl·acticaf' cou l'~e ... that of appealing one of a ~core of ~.tndergraduates, . It _rs cgmmon knowledge that aH he condones Dr, McGiffert's ser- who were .present. The sermon can· ~lsttmg preachets~!nvtted to speak, man; .or he has .shown inability in to husinL'SS .-tnd glory-minded citizens'! Are only be describ'ed as an extremely m Sunday Chapels ~rc. contacted ·handling his position by further IH' trying to ape our highly practical and lucid and !'!antPd comparison of by the Colle~e Chaplam, Dr. Brown. straining his already overstrained .<l\cces:;ful big brothers such as Illinois and thP Protestant and Catholic faiths Though he IS always open to mig- relationship ll'iith the Student Body. tl ·> f> 1 t · d · · with the former coming out far gestion::> as to whom the College. . . 0 lei's · ~l' wps no. • smce our a miSSIOns ahead of t·he latter. will invite, the final word rests in· The entire matter accord·tngly IS l'Oll1111ittr.:e still seems to be looking down Pet·ha·ps there are those that his office, and in the majority .of' merely one of deciding to What their HUSl'S at athletes (pa.rdon the nasty would debate whether Dr. McGif- cases the invitations originate t:here 1 degree of incompetency Dr. Brown word). smiling benignly rather on those who fert'SI address was biased unfairly as well. , has plunged ,the Office of Chaplain. han• heen labeled with the attrartin' catch- or not. I would not take up the Whether it was at the suggestion It is not, however, the duty of this argument w1th them, however, for of someone else or on his own in-' depa;rtment to· decide Sll.lch a ques- phrase (for catalogue huckstering'!), \\VeH whatever the conclusions, they stigation that Dr. Brown br-ought tion at this time. It is the duty of rounded individuals.\ would make Httle difference. The 1 Dr. McGiff.er. t to Unio.n is not t.he Stud~nt Council a1;1d the Col- Last]~·, whert> do W€' stand on extra-curri- point being contested is not the 1 known at this time, but it is of lege Adminlsration. cul.tr ;tdiYitks': \\'ith the high degree of subsidization and \'\Titten para!]herralia sur- rounding them, you would think them to be impo1·tant in official eyes. But no! While onL' advocate in the administration annually lauds their effects, other numerous oppon- ents on important committees stiffen in in- dig-nation when some carpeted student claims them as equally necessary to his education as Greek o1· Advanced illathematics_ Isn't it a little pathetic when a college adult has : to be formally notified when his activities are \beginning\ to interfere with his st uclies '? What are these activities games, escape mechanisms'? If so, the escape into fancy is from the juggernaut of supe1·-efficient, high-powered education Lest this descend into the depths of de- ' structive mud-slinging, I must add a few suggestions to those implied above. First II nne'! foremost, let's get down to size. With a small student body there is no excuse for _, 1 I the formality of bureaucracy. This would help to put education back on the personal teacher-student level where it belongs. Next, g-ive these future students the physical plant, the gym which all can enjoy, and the build- ings and labs, and the informal group hous- ing, that can contribute so much to morale and satisfactory work. Other colleges have done it by fund drives and so can we if they ; are well thought-out and sensibly presented. 1 And once again, give the student txaining 1 in making decisions for himself by a pro- i gressive educational program minus the mass of red-tape. Does Union want the knit-tied perfect specimen who never gives the college fathers a bit of trouble, or the technician so beloved by profit-motivated octopi such as GE, or does it want to graduate the man who can think for himself without constant I reference to somebody else's rule book? The question is important, and from the college's actions (if not words) we can sur- mise its underlying philosophy to be dis- cordant ·with this end. Are the students go- 1 P.ROM MEANS M.ORE THAN JUST A WEEKEND IT MEANS THE BEST OF EVERYTHING so NATURALLY The Place To VAN ·TAP Go Is The CURLER ROO:M ing tu concern themselves with these things? 1 A~th~~i~~p~ectt~irinws~e~T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Proposed.! I. C. r .. ~R ALL ;OUR I\ Hiram J. McKain . . M ; L K . ... . System By Ct•aig Mitrhell GIFT NEEDS Co. Vifamin D Homogenized In atto·rnptlnF! to tut·n out thP \well rounded\ in- divt<ua.l l'nion tw\ brought in Chapel sprakcts, !ec- ltlll'l's :1nd artt~l' under the conrPrt sPrir~. two-day \'istlol s and numerous other people to inject some rultutp 1nto lwr student~. Thes£> have been good slt·ps in lh<' 1 1ght dtrection, as is the new are appre- ciation • out-:-t· being ins!Jtuted next fall. However, they do nut go far Pnough to. reach tlw right pPople. THE I'EHSO:'\ who needs the background is not the man Who Can choose his COU!'>PS from several fields. concentrating in none in particular but hop- pill!' from Endtsh to Music to Art to Economies to Gt..dur-:,y. TLt· ulll' vdtu neeth- .• and in tnan.Y c~:ses, wants this background i~ the man who is held to one na n·ow lie ld without chance to venture into other intet·est mg but less important subjects. He IS the Juan \\ho has a <·utiosity about the LibPra! and FinP AJ\ts hut who has no opportunity to C:.elve into lhc>m to 11.ny mentionable depth. This is not the placr to determine how important background is to any person, let it suffice to say that it is of inl.(Jortance in the human relations that will be a rnnin problem of all of us after leaving co!lPfH' IT IS THE I'UHPOSE of this column to propose a wny whct·Phy this baC'kgrour.d could he obtainNl by .thnRe df'~irous of it, no matter what their field of ~tudy. This proposal would present a means whPrc- hy thp ><llldf'nt can get more than he does from the quick Chapel ~pPaker or the two-hour lecturer, yet not hAve to spend a semester or college year in the put·~uit of this l£>arning. In a nutshell, let us have short, concf'ntrated and fairly comp1·ehensive two- wePk COU!'S('S. Lrt thP~P courRrs be fomteen or ftftern hou1·s in length. pos~ibly three one-hour lectures per week at four-thirty in the aftE>rnoon and two two·hour lec- tures pet· wee!{ at night. At the end ·Of the second wePk then~ could be another one hour summation of the course. With a little planning of time in ac- vanre there are few who could not fit in these hours no matter how busy a schedule they have. LET THERE BE one of these courses given each markir.g period or each semester. If each markin.- period, let it be held after the flurry ·Of hour exams thRt always comes in the middle, if held each sem- ester, let it be at the beginning of the second· mark- ing period when most courses are not planning exams. Let there be no hour exams ·or quizzes, outside t eading should be kept short. These courses would be purely voluntary with those attending (·not to exceed 20-25 in E>ach class) there because they with to learn, not because they need Chapel points, Let reputable men be brought to the campus to teach these courses. Our faculty is already greatly overburdened in comparison with similar institutions, let's not ask them to do more. Let good• men, and good mt>n only, be brought for this purpose. Poor instruction or free instruction can do more harm than good at times. TliE STATEIVIENT has been made that Union is one of the six most adequately endowed colleges in the country. Here is a good chance to .show it. Let these· courses not be confined to the arts. Let English mapors g•et a look at science, let eco- nomics majors get some knowledge of practical psychology, let everyone have some instruction in the directing of their reading. Let the historian who is interested in architecture 'have the same chance as the civil engineer who is interested in musi'c. Finally. do not let those who can .take full year f'ourses in these subjects tal!e the special courses. Let the~e courses be for the advancement of ,educa- tion, for the advancement of knowledge on the part of those who want to ad'lance. Serving Union Sinc:e 191 l ~~J!.~?~ II 166 Jay Stre~t ,,. SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS .Phone 4·5676 114-STATE Near FERRY 306 Union Street Phone 4-4448 Lawn Seeds Insecticides Fertilizers Amsterdam Dairy Sc:henec:+ady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 ~~~~~~~ WE KNOW YOU WILL ALWAYS REMEMBER THE J.AY JIWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fo~ ·NATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Eng~aving Pens and the Finest Gifts , Corner $.fate and Center St..

7, 1'948 Baar is that Dr. time .of op- that he existing are can be Dr. Dr. Mc- rr:ust ·be done trUe,, it Brown the fact, by he has we either and ser- in further Body. is to what Brown Chaplain. of this a ques- duty of the Col- I m Y. FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1948 Sex Survey Uilion Students- Used • zn U. S. Press Comments on Disclosure Student Behavior Recorded by Camera By Staff Arutlyist The news that Union col- lege students furnished the data on the sexual mores of their own social and educa- tionaJ group included in a re- cent and unprecedentedly popular study of the variety and intensity of the sexUal ac- tivities of the American male, has caused no little stir in circles not immediately con- nected with the coHege. Long Record Bn·ion College, well~known the country over as the school that awarded George Westinghouse a gold-plated: axe three months be-· fore Prize ,Day, the school that gave John Howard Payne just cause to long for his \Home Sweet Home,\ the school that forced· up-. :on Edward Bellamy the leisure to write \Looking Backward,\ and still better known as the school that graduated America's greatest president, Chester A. Arthur, seems. to have unwittingly again stepped into a maelstrom unexpected and unanticipated upon its green and burgeoning campus. Union College is an old school, and a small school, and one more blow like this may well send it tottering into the Rest Home For Senile Institutions. Undoubtedly college trustees, administrative of- fleers, and right-thinking faculty members and students will rally around their school to defend it against the laughter and horri- fied glances of the populace, but we doubt that their heated denials and glosses will save the day. Press Comments Perhaps it would be apropos to outline the comments that have been made. We reproduce here- with some •of the choicer items culled from publications the coun- try over. The \New Yorker\ remarks, in its \Talk of the Town\ that \Union college, since it is not a •co-educational school, may well have given the lie to the argument . that segregation of the sexes makes for a safer and saner sex-life. Somehow, without the presence of the giggling sex on its campus, the college has been able to pursue a greater, fuller life with n·o impair- ment. This s·eems to be, a re- eapitulation of the old claim that where there's a will, there's a way. The snide remarks we have noted in other publications concerning the sheep supposedly cropping grass in a pasture on Union's cam- pus were negated by a report from our agent in Schenectady. It ap- pears that those sheep haven't been around for a sheep's age, and that the space is now occupied by a parking lot. Our staff zoologist in- forms us that there is nothing more unresponsive than a late model American automobile so- we feel sure that someone is out to get both America's automotive in- dustry and the genus Ovis. We will have no part of this Un-Am- erican plot.\ The \New York-Times\ with cus- tomary dignity observes \We can- not be sure at the present time, nor are we sure that we will be ever be sure that this revelation will ever have any. long range, or for that matter, any; short ra,nge effects on the American college system. We are almost sure, however, ·l:hat no .small college can long endure, nor 1;1hortly f·orget, what has been done on this campus. It is for us, rather, to rededicate ourselves to a rebirth of· the spirit of purity that ;>T The above pict-ures were taken without the knQwledge of Dr. Kinsy by CONCORDIENSIS photographers Robert Heinemann, Robert Schwartz, Evan Richa1·ds and Robert Navias. Each picture is based on a. phase of the 'investigation or on conduct thought normal for students, accordjng to an Interpretation of Dr. Kinsyis survey. Upper left, patient sheep grazing on the Union Oollege p11-sture. Upper right, unidentified woman who, claiming to have attended Union proms for 20 years, suggests to Dr. Kinsy, at right of picture, that an inquiry be made Into what she termed the \awful\ conduct of students here. Left center, unnamed Union student chases girl on State Street, Schenectady, in accordance with IDnsy statistics on high incidence of aspiration toward pre-marital sex relations by youths. Ann of Kinsy may be seen at extreme left of photograph as he writes data in notebook. Young boy in foreground was later identified as son of Union alumnus. Cente1·, dog faces prospect of motherhood glumly. She is a guided the lives of the student of student of true Marixian history fifty years ago.\ kn·ows the moral decadence that Mayor Upset Labor Seems Cure accompanies the blood-sucking ~;ule of big business and the crypto- One of America's leading trade fascists.'' Magazines, the \Calkers and Keel- campus dog whose lover argued; \But you wouldn't want to be different, would you?\ Right center and lower left, Union student arrested as city police crack down of sex code violations. Police officials, hearing that Kinsy predicted extremely high percentages of arrects if sex laws we~;e enforced, said, \We ·must do our part.'' Lower picture was talren as youth collapsed while being escorted into police station after arrest on charge of kissing his sister. In upper photo, same youth being booked on similar charge at later date. Lower left, married vete1·an returns to modest home after day of classes (note book he bas dropped on bed'). He greets wife as visitors from dormitories hide beneath bed. According to photographel', married veteran asked his wife by way of greeting, \Anything happen today, dearest, darling, honeybnnch ?\ , She is repoi·ted to have replied, \Nothing unusual.~' Rinsy, whose notebook and pencil are visible at extreme right of photo, reports high percentage of extra-mal'ital relations. 1City Manager Worried College Girl Not Surprised -·Investigator Says College Ideal Field The academic world was shocked this week by the dis- closure that Dr. Albert D. Kinsy !Jased a large part of his wt>rld-famous report on male sex behaviot·isms on ob- servations he made of Union ColJege students. Admits Part Kinsy admitted the part played by Union student\' when he was confronted early this week with phutugraphs \repwcluced el:;ewhere on this page; made by CON- CORDIENSIS photographers who ·followed him without his knowledge while he was conducting his in- Velo'tigation here. Within hours the startling revela- tion was relayed around the world by radio and wit e services, and telegrams and letters started pour- ing in criticizing Union College s1;,pdent:J for being responsible for what one nationally-famous edu- cator and religious leader termed the \most vicious attack on Ameri- can manhood within my lifetime.\ Asks Probe The survey was touched off when an unidentified woman, hearing of Dr. Kinsy's interest in male sex patterns, urged him to conduct a study at Union, saying, \I've been to Union proms for over 20 years, and ... my God!\ Kinsy was reported to have ex- plained his selection of Union Col- lege as follow>~: \One campus is pretty much like another, with minor variations. Sex patterns probably do not differ very widely froni college to college, with the exception of those habits peculiar to particular localities. Union Col- lege, with its pasture on which sheep once grazed, was perhaps ideally suited to my comprehensive study. College officials, w h e n t h e y learned of Union's part in the sur- vey, expressed surprised indigna- tion. One administration official, hearing the news, shouted, \It's not true. Union men just don't do things like that.\ Another, slumping in his chair, moaned, \I guess if Kinsy says they're stinkers, they're stinkers. I've felt it developing for a long time.\ ---·0•--- Offers Views On Clamor The following was written by a son of Minerva after learning of the momentous news. The comments were found on a scarp of graph paper jammed nnde:r the Concordiensis office door.-(Ed). I was not too surprised upon learni'llg that Union College. my beloved alma mater, had be·en used for the basis and background of the experiment and research. My lack of surprise stems from my analyzing the mert's college set up. Why would any normal high type American boy choose to spend four of his most importaitt growing years (green years?) around and in ivy-clad buildings that a~:e bare for all apparent purposes of the · feminine sex? Certainly all these men are not men who have been turned cown at eo-educational uni- versities. Many of them chose a men's college of their own volition and why not? To live in dorms with other fellows and not be bothered by the fancies and whims of the opposite sex. What could be more perfect! And at Union they had sheep! haulers Gazette\ makes the com~ The \New York Miror\ in an ment, \We feel sure that if these article which, we believe, was college jerks were learning a trade, aimed at a rather low read.er level, they would have no time for all had this to say, \College boys, ever this horsing around. we don't care ki:town for all sorts -of high jinlts, what this here investigator says such as swallowing goldfish arid about sublimation, we think that a wearing raccoon coats, have once Mayor Oweh M, Begley, of Sche- nectad·y, speaking as a Union alumnus, said this morning, refer- i'ing to the uproar resulting from the announcement of the sex study at Union, \I hope this won't keep me out of the White House.\ , Arlen T. St. Louis, city manager of Schenectady, upon hearing of the Union study, said early this afternoon, \I'm holding my breath that Mr. Kinsy doesn't throw the spotlight on us.\ Of course being an off-campus stu- dent I have not been in complete touch with all goings on of the coliPg-e ~turlPnt as described by the report. This lack of immediate contact may weaken what I have Special to The ConcOI·diensis to say but in any event as ·an im- POULTNEY, VT.-A student at partial .observer I was not com- Green Mountain Junior College, pletely unaware of the behavior asked her reaction to the report of the college student. True that - good day's work will take all this again attracted attention. Little nonsense out '01:' a man with Union College, suppos·edly a hot- nothing left over. Let those college. bed of sufi'iness now appears to be punks come down to the- hiring one of the carefree playgrounds of hall, we will clean up their morals ·the idle rich. It appears that the for them.'' Flaming Twenti-es ·have not died. The \Daily Worker\ has seiz-ed out but have been merely smould- up on the issue with customary ering.\ avidity. \Still another flaw in t~e We regret that we haven't more rotting fabric o:t capitalist culture space, or we would include' the has been detected, Here is a school illuminating comments of religious that has been long respected. by papers, of farm journals, etc. We those men who made the evils of have also acquired the first issue capitalism a reality, and now sud- Of a publication called \College denly is revealed in all the glory Comics\ which seems to be l'ather of a hypocrite unmasked. An-y . adult fare~ D-Chi Ouster Move Delayed Attorneys for the City of Sche- nectady and the Delta Chi ·Fra' sel, Kelsie E. Mead, is in hope that ternity arrived this , week at an· opposing attorneys wiU be able to reach an agreement of the facts agreement whereby a temporary in~. J 'unction against the fraternity involved for a joint presentation at court. would not be necessary. This de- In the meantime Hannibal Pardi, cision will enable the Supreme Court to reach a decision within assistant corporation counsel for the city;· said that new papers the shortest feasible time. . would be served on the fraternity Supreme Court Justice Willard and Scheinzeit and Grosberg, real Best ruled that a hearing of the estate agents, te show cause why case could not -possibly be held the fraternity should not be re- until May 22 when it is hoped that strained from converting the Wen- an early decision will be had. At . dell Avenue residence into a fra- the presenti time corporation coun-. ternity house. • that Dr. Kinsy based much of his the• men did not entirely give up . surrvey of male sex patterns on association with the- opposite sex observations at Union College, said but the group that were frequent- yesterday: ing Skidmore and what it had to offer dwindled and of late only a \It's what I was told all along. few hardies have been s·een near There's really nothing new about the shadow of Yaddo. it. We girls up here have always. Perhaps the survey taker and regarded Union men as delightfully behavior expert is an wet or is it n<>W,\ ~hat our mores and customs -differ ===============. from what is generally preached Listen, To Concordy Speaks 7:45 p.m. Fl'l. on WRUC . and supposed•. D. H. Lawrence writes in an essay having to do . with pornography and obscenity that the practice of the dirty little seci'et is the result of society's de- nunciation .of the natural behavior patterns of the sexes being. fol- lowed.

.. I 'I· ~I I' II .! 1 4 FRIDAY •. MAY 7, 1948 From ''First Green'' to Nineteenth HOle Phi Sigma Delta ~------------------~--------------------~~----------~~~--------~.0 by College; Marion Rinear, East Charlotte Davies, Smith; Roz Block, Green Mountain Jr. College; Anne Silberman, Syracuse; Lenore Herbert, Wellesley; Barbara Jaffe. Bennington; Joan Polacheck, Mt. Holyoke; Norma Siegel, Radcliff; l\laeda .Mayran, Vassar; Jean Gard- ner, NYU; Florence Baron, Skid- more; Mimi Aronsen, Sl1idmore; Martha Epstein, Sliidmore; Alma Lewis, Pembroke; Claire Pa.rker, Vassar; Ro,-.e Lavin, Barnrurd; Bev- erly Coplon, NYS Teacher,;; Sue Br·andon, Symcuse; Barbara Zeli- kof,,ky, Russell Sage; Sally Gruess- ner, Cornell; Rhoda Lobell, Upsala; Muriel LUlie, Russell Sage. Phi Delta Theta !<'Iorence Giblin, Adelp'hi; Barbara Secor, Newburgh; Janet Luke, l<,re- donia; Anne Taylor, Tt oy; Doris Abbott, V a s sa r Hospital; Ann Fer·guson, Skidmore; Barbara Ma- turn, Scotia; Jane Sanborn, Skid- more; Audrey Webster, Glovers- ville; Jean Ja,·k:o'llll, .Schenectady; Grace Rasmussen. Adelphi; Martha Quay, Schenectady; Ma1·y Clarli, Mon istown, N.J.; Eleanore Reuter, Irving-ton, N.J.; Joanne Baker, Dryden, N.J.; Mona MillE'r, Pelham Manor; Marium Sanderson, Fre- donia; Donna King, Albany: Mickey Murray. Brooldyn; Janet Taylor, NYC; Joan Ottn1un, Scotia: Bev- erly Bistoff, Schenectady; ~frs. Ken Whalen, Schenectady: and Mich Richard Buchaney, Schenectady, Sigma Chi Dorothea Ben~. Albany State; Miriam D)'('r, Skidmore; Sonja Strittich, Summitt; Barbara Grout, Mon istown, ~.J.; Joanne D'Aprile, Triple Citie,, College; :\!at garet Fitzgl'rald. ~!ill brook; Helc n Hen- nessey, Pitsfot d, Yt.; Charlotte ~!udlcr, Skidmore; Cora Barnes. ::\:cw Paltz; Barbara Heiser, Skid- Il·Dl<; \'ir.;inia Davi:;, SU<.lmorc; Ann Tompkins, Skidmore : Jacklyn Tappc·n, Gat tlc n City; :\Iargarct Cutdcy, Skiu·n>u: c; ~1at y Ingcrsull, Albany State; Paula V. Lukacik, ~ewLurg; :\laz ic Liston, Schenec- tady; Cazol::,n Lewb', Schcncctauy; :\!z·s. Jean Simpson, Amsterdam; Ethylin Haw I e y, Poughkeepsie; Betty SwePt, Potsdam: Kay Cox. Schc>nl'ctady; .!'.lazy Dicl<en~on, Skid- more: Helen Mabie, Skidmore: Pa- tricia Caulkins, Northwestern; Peggy Roberts, Keuka; Gloria Ed- wardfl, Utica; ~farjory Ryan, Sher- I ill; Dolores Holcva, Schenectady; :\!ary Fleming-, NYS Teachers; and Mary Vosburgh, Schenectady. Kappa Sigma :\!onica Zack, Amsterdam: Shirley Fnlvo, Ctica; Caroline Boyce, Al- bany; Betty Tierney, Albany: Shir- ley Stevens. Scotia; Marjorie Pas- son, Schenectady; Rita Conlee, Sche- nectady; Rose HayE's, Schenectady; Mr''· Han is Sanflippo. Schenec- tady; and Mrs. Charles Gould, Sche- nectady. Chi Psi Kathleen Harris, Stewart Manor; Virginia Moores, Bellmore; Eliza- beth Hoffman, Skidmore; Grace Jl.rack. Bennett Jr. College; Susan For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE Pierce, Bennington Jr. College; Joan Eastty, Skidmore; Doris Cof- J!ey, .Schenectady; Sue Lutz, Skid- more; Ruth Jensen, A 1 JJ a. n y; .li:leanor Patterson, Russell Sage; Gr·aydon Smith, Vassar; Margaret • Y.lcMahon, Albany State; Ruth; Booth, Ardmore, Pa.; Betty Bren- nan, NYU; Beverly Hoag, St. Johns- ville; Janie Lion, NJ College for' Women; Helen Davidson, Keuka; Barbara Marden, Penn Wynne, Pa.;' Cynthia Chase, Skidmore; Jean- nette Halsey, Westfield, NJ.; Norma Dd Shor·t, Chicago; Carolyn D'.Arcy,· Green Mountdin; Ali\:e Sherman, Kent U; Lee Bargar, Bi·adford Jr. College; Virginia Snyder, Green Mt. Jr. College; Elaine Clark, Ohio Wesleyan; Sandy Krueger, Skid· more; Margaret McFadden, Cleve- land; Sue Br·ubaker, Slddmore; Margaret Steffenhagen, Canajo-. nal'ie; Sally Wickstrom, Skidmore; Sue Stone, Skidmore; Beverly Hodge, Skidmore; and Joyce New-. ton, Swampscott, Mass; Norma Short. Psi Upsilon Gloria Cielavin, NYC; Helen Ra.chiele, Schenectady; Doris Jones, Willard; Van Whalen, Flushing; Jeannine DuChene, Oneida; Jean Barnum, Albany; Consuelo Schlep- Ki:9s, Saratoga; Myla Bates, Lyn- brool,e; Bobbie Green, Skidmore; Dodie Bea.J, Brewster; Louise Woodward, Rye; Lois Ann Butt, Skidmoxe; Joan Brown, NYC; I'hersa Landry, Plattsburg; Jane Woodruff, Syracuse U; Jean Stew- art, Skidmore; Peggy Williams, Flushing; Cas::;ie Manya, Flushing; Peggy Wright, Schenectady; Alice Daley, Hastmgs-on the Hudson; Shirley Ann Haswell, Loudenvil!e ; Patricia Pardi, Schenectady; Bar- bara Turner, Schenectady; Bunny Seelye, But nt Hills; Kat Matocha, Schenectady; Jean McConnell, Al- bany; Mr;;;. William Beck, Schenec- Lady; Mrs. Doug Maure, Schenec- tauy; Mrs. Hal Evans, Bing- hamton. BETA WARM WEATHER A D Pl;!l Phi Gam D 'U ~ D CHI ~ WILDWOOD N rll Q rll ~ s;: CHI PSI KAPPA SIG aniO:WOIJIS PSI U Mis. Jasques Stolzman, Schenec- College; Kathleen Foster, 'Spring- tady; Jacquelin Cadan, Schenec- field Gardens; Roberta Owen, Sche- tady; Georgene Simon, Skidmore; nectady, Jean Collllolly, Sarah Law- Lenore Coplon, Schimectady; Naomi renee; Sarah Fithian, Bouje Col- Kassan, NYC; Bernice Katcher, lege; Joanne Black, Oberlin; Peggy Forest Hills; Ronni Hanlein, Bar- Smith, Schenectady; L i d i a L. nard; Ester Toppal, Troy; Mrs. Adams, .Schenectady; Betty Suiiic James Ettinger, Schenectady; Shir- van, Lake George; Peggy Forsythe, ley Wilber, Amsterdam; Felice Newkirk, N.J.; Marilyn Indgin, Bernstein, Malverne; and Barbara Gloversville; Jean Peters, Colum- Weis.s, Long Beach; and Edith buO\ Ohio; Patty Powell, Selkirk: Kappa N U Freund, .Skidmore. Shirley Anne Mahney, Schenectady; Nancy Field, .Syracuse U; Jackie and Mildred Shaw. Coplon, Schenectady; Maria Sis- Sigma Phi George Zopf kind. Brooklyn; Laura Berger, AI· Nancy Hartman, Schenectady; :Dorothy Richards, Skidmore. bany State; Marcia Schwartz, Syra- Peggy Rye, Skidmore; Mary Bab- Phi Gamma Delta cuse U; Meysa Levrtoff, Buffalo; bitt, u. of Vt.; Ann Graham, AI- Sue Baskowitz, Skidmore; Murielbany; Betty Bates, Albany; Connie Marjorie Fordham, Oradell, N.J.; Appelbaum,_ Rochester; Sara Gl'Oss, Rotheny, Springfield, Mass.; Jean Grayce Smethurst, South Orange, Rouses Pomt; Janet Wolff, Syra- Gehman Slddmore· Martha Coach- N. J.; Dorothy Barton, Plattsburg, cuse U; Se;e_na Jutkovitz, La:W- man, Schenectady;,'Nancy Sweeney, N. Y.; Betty Sasseen, College of renee; Patncra Ray~ond, Sk~d- Skidmore; Dot Hoadley, Schenec- New Rochelle; Joan Walsh, Port m_ore; Renee T-opol, S~r~ore~ Lrta tady; Eve Morgan, Albany; and Chester, N. Y.; Ortheal Lord, Lmz_er, Vassar; Patnc.ra Pamton, Mary Haley, Skidmore. Platsburg, N. Y.; Virginia Bund_y, Elmrra College; Bermce Matt us, D It Ph• Plattsburg, N. Y.; Thelma Wayand, NYC; Roberta Flasner, Forest C a 1 Scotia, N. Y.; Jean Haight, Bald- Hills; Barbara Segall, Troy; Lee Drusilla Johnson, Stoug)lton, win, N.Y.: Virginia Putnam, Green Robinson, Adelphi; Evelyn Pinken- Mass.; Betty Lessor, J.ohnstown;. Mountain College; Kathanne Har- feld, Brooklyn; Mrs. Marshall Hey- Sara Ha.wn, Skidmore; Florence ter, Wellesley; Betty McCleary, man, Schenectady; Janet Rabineau, Flint, Sl>idmore; Rosemary Lind- Schenectady, N. Y.; Norma Long, Albany; Natalie Weiss-blum, Troy; ner, Dunkirk; Dorothy Ina Hop- Schenectady, N. Y.; Martha Anne FRENCH Cleaners and Dyers 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service\ • Phone 6-4295 kins, Melrose, Mass.; Grace Maloy, Hunter, Fairfield, Conn.; Dorothy Albany; Joan Bradish, Wheelock Kruger, Albany, N. Y.; Gay Ter- DO YOU LEAD ) A DOUBLE LIFE? COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6--!443 Scotia MAKE THE UNION INN .. YOUR POST-PROM RENDEZVOUS 517 UNION STREET (Everybody does!) And to make the transition easier, Arrow brings you that dual purpose shirt-the Doubler which looks as well without a tie on a golf cou;se as it does with a tie for a dinner· date. Doubler is made in crisp Gordon oxford cloth the favorite fabric of American college men and bears the Sanforized label (assurance of les~ than lo/o shrinkage.) Drop in after class and pick out a couple of An-ow Doublers, They come in white and blue oxford and are sized like regular shirts, Price $4.00. ' 1J NUSJBA UM'S ....-- _~ __ ...,_, -~-- FOR ARROW SHIRTS-~-' race, Syracuse, N. Y.; Marilyn; C:leveland, ~hlo; Ann Terrill, Ba:l- Cr•.ass, Amsterdam, N. Y.; I9aibel ~rmore, Md·.,. E&ther Mueller;_ Irv- Tanner, Wells College; Ann Brandt,.rng~on, N. J:,, Margarete Steigett, Troy, N.Y.; Bal'lbara Spang, Welles- ~rvmgton, N, J~; Peggy Young, Irv- ley; Pat Fanning, New Rochelle; mgton, N. J.; Crls Sarasianos,. Rus-· Nancy Bonsall Wellesley· Harriet sell Sage; Sarol Ja:g-le, South Or- Tway, Wellesiey; Doris' Parker,. ange. Chaperones: Dr. and Mrs • Warrensburg, N. Y.; Chapenmes: George Brady. • Mr. and Mrs. Wa:Ily Macmillan of . Independent Dates Greenwich, Conn. and Mr. and Mrs .. LiUian Veremeichek, Woodbury, Don Rickard of Schenectady, N. Y. Long Island, N. Y:.; Lois Rogers, Phi Sigma Kappa .Schenectady; Roealind 'CForrence, Barbara ,SneU, Schenectady;, RHsseH Sage; Priscilla Perkins, Jeanne Borst, Marymount College;. Russell S~ge; Barbara: Joelson, Norinne Burmaster FOrt Johnson· .New York,, Terry Keefe, Y-onkers, Peggy Satterlee, GloversviUej Ar: N._ Y.; Jean Hyatt, Schenecta~y; dith Duck, ,Schenectady; Lee Bur-· ,Ell~abeth , Ann. Sweeny, . Whrte roughs, Skidmore; Barbara Howe, Plains, N. Y. •. Mary EltzaJb~th Schenectady; Nancy :Keefer, Sche- Macksey, No:w~ch, N .. Y.; A!tce nectady; Mr. and M;-s. Max Slee,· Watson; Manone Carp_!lnter, One- Schenectady; Mr. and Mrs, Walter. •Onta Staj:e Teachers, Oneanta, N. Finnegan Schenectady · Y.; Margaret Dyer, Albany; Mary ' · • Haas, Albany; Grace O'Brien, New Theta Delta Chi York; Ethel M. Albertson, Mount . Jackie Ja.mison, Newburgh, N.Y.;' Holyoke, South Hadley, Mass.; Lois Marilyn Janda, Elmira College; Rogers, Schenectady; Margaret A. Marilyn Hezinger, Elmira College; .Jones, Schenectady; Verna Franz, Betty Engvall, Auburn, N. Y.; Jean Albany, N. Y.; Margaret J. Brick- Van Etten, Albany, N. Y.; Elaine ner, Albany; Bette 'Leach, Albany; Bennett, Green Mt. Colleg~e;. Nan. Patricia Walklett, New Jersey Col- Holt, Schenectady, N. Y.; Mrs. lege for W'Omen.; Virginia Bowker, George Woodmff, Schenectady, N. Buffalo, New York; Betty Ward, Y. , Russell Sage; Dorothy Kesner, U. Alph_ a Delta. Phi . C.L.A.; Ann Hanlon, College of New Rochelle; Barbava Str-oncer, Ore- Carol Smith, Albany, N. Y.; Sue gon State; Lois Ann Bennett, U. Gieseler, .Skidmore College; Lynette 'Rochester; Audrey K.' Wa~ker, Hotchkiss, La:kevHJe, Conn.; Helen Duke tr.; Kay :;rrabert, Kenmore, Jean Miller, New York: J. Jacksorl N. Y.; Elinor .Strange, West Hart- Skidmore; Glo Grimes, Skidmore;' ford, Conn.; Jane Adikes, Goucher Shirley Leonard, Schenectady, N. College; Catherine B. Fox, Skid- Y.; Pauletta Menk, South Orange, more; Terry O'Brien, East Hart- N. J.; Patricia Grumq1an, Skidmore ford, Conn. ; Terry Temple, Ossin-' College; Anne Allardice, Skidmore; ing, N. Y.; Pat ,sweeney, Johns- Lucy Tump!ine, Tamagami, On- town, N.Y.; Ann Nardini, Schenec- tario; Bobble Rappold, S_chen~c- tady; Norma Tilley, Russell Sage; tady; ~llen Monroe, Sk1dmere; ,Kari Reed, Skidmore; Ann Rohr- Bette Gzeseler, !amestown, N, Y.;' bach, Russell Sage; Adaline Kai:- Irene Kopocesk1, Syr!l;cuse, N. Y.; andy, Schenectady; Madeline Mc- Nan.cy DeBello, Onerda, N. Y.;. Auliffe, Schenectady; Jeanne Bro- L~Ul~ McHenry, Albany,, N. Y.; gan, South Pasadena, Cal.; Ginny P ~Ills Everett, Kansas ?rty, Kan- Flack, Russell Sage; Marjorie Rey- sas, ~ue Swe~t, Lake Erre <:;ollegc; nolds, Schenectady; Jane Ballou, Leshr Cu~mmgs, Lake Ene Col- Russell Sage; Lois Howard, Ridge- lege;. Lomse Pauze, Schenectady; w-ood, N. J.; Pat McCarl, Ridge- ~ll;rcza Powell, Hartford, Conn.; wood, N. J.; Ann Mary Remington, 1 P Burgess. Scotia, N. Y.; Phylli9 Young, Sche- Delta Chi · nectady, Adel Kasper, Scotia and Esther Ackerman, Keuka Col- '1\lartha Best, Schenectady. lege; Merry Lou Greeley, Skidmore; Katherine Collyer, New Jersey State College for Women; Hedy Lamarr, Hollywood; Maida Hart- man, Plattsburg State Teachers College; Connie Becher, Skidmore; Eleanor Guarino, N.Y.S.C.T.; Bar- bara DeLong, Schenectady; Ethel Albertson, Mt. Holyoke; Jane Rus- sell, Schenectady. Kappa Alpha Nancy Hunter, Skidmore College; Joyce Schell, Schenectady; Terry Beirne, Baldwin, Long Island; · Marth!\- Middlemiss, Bennett Jr. C~Ilege; Martha Dundon, Glen Rrdge, N. J.; Joan Barnard, Col- No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) Is· it a sports shirt? Is it a regular shirt? Yes, twice-it's bothLThe Arrow: Doubler is styled to lOok equally well open-necked . or with a necktie. Doubler is made in fine white or blue Gordon oxford cloth and cqmes in regular collar and sleeve lengths. Sanforized labeled.* See your Arrow dealer for a Doubler toaay l $4, Oo (Fabric shrinkage less than 1%) f.RROW SHIRTS and TIE~- UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS e SPORTS SHIRTS -·

7, 1948 le ear, East Bal- eller; It•v- Steigett, Irv- Rus- Or- and Mrs. Rogers, Perkins, Joelson, Yonkers, White ElizaJbeth Y.; Alice One- N. Mary New Mount Lois A. Franz, J. Brick- Albany; ersey Col- Bowkel;', Ward, U. ge of New Ore- U. ' Walker, Kenmore, Hart- Goucher Skid- Hart- Ossin-' Johns- ' Schenec- sell Sage; Rohr- Kar- Me- Bro- Ginny jorie Rey- Ballou, rd, Ridge- rl, Ridge- Sche- and Eat 'S IES FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1948 Lawrenceme,n Take Two O~n Road No~ggin-Knockers Break E·ven - ~----------~----------------·--------------~---® Rochester Next FolTrackmen B:las.t C·ontinentals Sti.c_kmen .Defeat UnionAfterHobartF $ :d St . ht y· t leh1gh, Fall Prey Game H:ome Today·•· T::~arnet~r~~e~·co~unued!aJg;. · 'IC 0 ry. To Toug·h O~range . 0'11 thetr rampage by swampmg the t d h · 1 d · . . f 1 · Hamilton Cindermen 101-25 -on May mee s, an · .. e IS ea. mg scm et 0 Th~ Union varsity lacrosse team The up and down Union, 1 in a home meet. In winning the team w1th 25 pomts. Bob Me- came through with a 4-3 win over College baseball .squad will be, thek second straight lop-sided vic- Queen, who has snagged. first place Lehigh last SaturdaY.:_ in a game ·seeking to even up its .sea-, tot'y, the Dutcl:J.men .placed· first ·in in .all four of his attempts, is run- that \\as slowed up considerably by So h record this afternoon,: every event which gives them a nen1p with 20 mar!~ers. For the the stringent refereeing. Goals were record of 2:r out of 28 first place second successive week Roy West- made by Barry, Quinlan, \By\ when the baseballers return spots in two meets. lund has thrown the javelin over George, _and Jim Flynn, Flynn home from a three game road Several outstanding performances 160 feet hitting the 164 foot 2 ¥.. scond the winning point in the series to face the Hobart Col- w_ere turned in by the Garnet inch mark in the Hamilton meet. fourth quarter .• I I St t . Al .. d · Cmcermen. Ken Whalen once AU three javelin throwers West- Wednesday, the Garnet pressed a · e_ge · a esmen 0~ exan er,. again br,oke the Union shotput rec- lund, Hagar, ancl Blessing threw ~1rong Syracuse team all the way F1eld. After today S game the, ord with a heave of 48 feet and· over· the !50 foot lir.e. This is the through the game but carne out on Dutchmelil. will take a short ,8% inches which bettered his rec- best trio of javelin throwers the the shGrt end ~f an 8 _ 4 score. breather until Jil.ext Wednes- ord s-et in the Trinity meet April College has had since 1936. In the Goalie Bill Grant carril:ld away the · . . h th . 11 24 ·by over a 1 foot and a ha:lf. He two meets nine men have been un- honors for Union with 20 saves. day, May 12, W ·en 'ey Wl haJd three he~ves over his old rec- ·beaten by a member of the oppos- \By\ George and Lou Snell played be ~t home out. for ~eve1~ge ord .. Jack M1lford for the sec~nd ing team. T_hey are as follows: exceptionaHy well, as did \Whitey\ against a veteran University stra;~ght meet cleared 12 feet which McQueen, Lawton, A. Personeous, Markes. The Garnet experienced of Rochester nine which' Is the best perfo:r:mance amon.g Wright, Culver, Belanger, Milford, trouble hitting the net once in posi- . ' f th · :sma:ll colleges th1s year. Olhe. Simmons, and Westlund. The next tion, but they had more shots at handed the Garnet one 0 · · e. Personeous ran the 220 yard dash home meet for the Garnet Track- the goal than in any previou& game two .defeats suffered last sea- in 23.0 which. is the best _furlong:· men is Saturday, May 15 when th~y this year. This fray was the eighth son. · run by a Umon man durm?' the opJ>Ose ?- stronl? R.P.I. sq.uad. This game for Syracuse this season. Win Two of Three Road Games past thr;e years. Perso~eous ts un- mee~ wtll provtde the test for the They have won six, losing only to beaten m five events m the two . surgmg Dutchmen. Army and Navy. 'I'he Lawrencemen took two out of three contests in their road trip last weelt, shading Trinity College 4-3 at Hartf0rd, Conn., and trounc- ing R.P.I. by 3-0 at Troy. The only setback was suffered at the hands -of Middlebury College, as After dropping their opening>$ ~------- th~ Vermonters scored four runs match to Stevens 8-1, Union's NistaC's courtmen. The delayed in,)Jie eighth inning to take a 9-6 racquetmen have forged ahead to meeting with the Continentals was decision. :·decisively beat Hamilton 7-2, a decisive victory for the Garnet. Union Courtmen Face Vermont Here Tomorrow •. Seek Forth Straight Win The highlight of a succ~ssful; Br·ooklyn Poly 9\0 last week and Riding on the crest of a 2 match weelt was the 3-0 shutout VIctory: Midl'llbury 7-2, this week for a 3-1. streak the Dutchmen had little over the rival Engineers of R.P.I. season. troubl·e in swarnpinr Middlebury Phil McQuade turned in a master- Last Saturday the team made a last Wednesday afterncon. ful perfoi,mance on the mound for clean sweep, winning all matches Bert Kusserow, the only Garnet the Dutchmen, limiting Rensselaer· from the Brooklyn Poly squad. The winner against Stevens, maintains to five scattered hits,. and stri·king game scheduled originally for last an undefeated singles record to out ten opposing batters. AI Wade, 'Friday against Hamilton had to be date, the Garnet rig:ht fielder, once more postponed until Sunday because of The courtrnen will meet Vermont expressed his contempt for,.,qppos- rain. The rain on Friday could University tomorrow afternoon on ing pitchers by knocking out two not dampen the spirits of Pete their home courts. doubles and a single in four trips to the plate. · McQuade Blanks R.P.I. Down Two for Golfers RPI Beats JV Stiekmen The Dutchmen wasted no time in Sparked by the Boucher brothers, The Freshman Lacrosse team getting started against the Engi- the Middlebury Golf team knocked· dropped a 15-1 decisi-on in their sea- neers. In the first inning Billy· off the Union hackers to the tune· son's opener to the R. P. I. Frosh Eade led off with a single, and of six to .three Tuesday at the Edi- on May 1 on LLbrary Field. The Bob Barlett sent him horne by son club. Union's three points were Garnet Neophytes exhibited plenty smashing out a double. After Carl picked up by Captain Ben Swan· of spirit and drive, however, their Armstrong had flied, Truman Rice and Danny Ba&kous. Swan beat lack of experience handicapped singled to ·s·end Bartlett horne and Bates two up and one to go while them. Coach Tomlins believes that put Union into a 2-0 lead. Wade Danny was having one of those the squad acquired a wealth of ex- registered one of his doubles be- Frank Merriwell finishes. Finding perience in the contest. Stellar fore things quieted down, but the himself two down and three w go, performances were turned in by early rally ended when Johnny Baskous fired par, bird, par to win Norm Carr and Walt Causey. Chapman grounded out to end the one up on the eighteenth green. The Frosh will scrimmage the inning. The other Union score came The low score honors for the day Mohawk Country Club tomorrow in the eigJhth inning. AI Wade hit were shared by Bob Boucher and afternoon, and the following Satur- his second double into right :field, Swan who both came in with day they will play host to the Wil- and came home Oil> an overthrow to seventy-sevens, liam's Freshmen. the R.P.I. first baseman in an at- tempt to put out Chapman. Lose to Middlebury The Middlebury College nine managed to hand the Garnet their fourth defeat in seven starts Wed- nesday at Middlebury, Vermont, by pushing over four runs in a big eighth\ inning. Union held. a 4-1 Iead for the first four innings of play. In the fifth inning the Ve'r- monters began to hit the slants of Union veteran· Hal lj:nstice, and . they pushed -over three runs to knot up the ball game at 4-4. In the seventh inning each team scored a run to lteep things on an exciting basis. The big eig:hth in~ ning spelled defeat for the Dutch- men, however, as the home team score·d four times. Enstice went all the way for the Garnet on• the mound. Bartlett starred at bat, getting the only extra base hit, a double. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Varsity Baseball Total ••• Union- AE R HPO A E UNION- AB R H PO A E Elade, c .. . .. . .. .. .. .. 4 1 1 11 1 0. Eade, c · · .. \ · .. \ · .. 3 i ~ ~ g ~ Bartlett, ss . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 2 2 2 o Ba1·tr!ett, ss .......... 4 Armstrong, Sb . . . . .. . 5 o 1 2 o o Armstrong, 3b . .. . . . . 5 0 1 0 3 1 Rice, 2b . \.. .. .. .. . .. 5 () 1 1 4 0 Wad~. cf ............ 5 i i ij ~ g Enstice, cf . . . . . . . . . . . 4 o 1 2 0 Q E!~StiCe, P • • • • • • • • • • ' ~ 1 1 0 1 Wade, rf· . .. .. . .. . .. . 4 1 2 0 0 0 ~'it~;g 2 \i' · · · · ·\\ · .. 4 1 0 o o g Chapm!'-n, 1b ......... 3 0 ~ 9 ° ° Chapman, i.b'·:::::::: 4 o 1 s o o Hoc'hull, .If ...... · · · · · 3 0 0 0 0 ° Hochuli, If .......... 3 0 1 6 0 0 McQuade, P • • .. • • .. • • 4 0 0 0 2 0 Totals .......... , .. 33 6 8 24 2 Totals ............. 36 3 9 27 9 0 RPI- AB R liPO /t. E Kimball, rf ....... , , . 4 0 0 I} 0 0 Andre, If .... , .... , , . 4 .() 0 2 0 0 Beige, If . .. .. . .. .. .... 2 0 0 2 () 0 Lauzon, cf ......... , . 4 0 1 3 1 1 Secrest, ss .. , . . . . . . . . 1 0 0 0 8 0 Schaffer, Lb . .. .. . . .. . 4 0 1 16 () 0 MoCoombs; 2b ...•...... 4 () a 2 5 0 Zino, 3b .. . . . . .. . . . . 2 0. 1 1 0 0 Schichtel, c ........ , . 4 0 2 1 0 0 Huie, ·P • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 0 0 0 2 0 Terh!lne, p .. . . . .. . . . () 0 0 0 1 0 rotals ............. 31 () I} 27 oib:-~ Umon .................. 200 000 . RPI ............. -... . . . 000 000 000-0 ·GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY llliddlebury- AB R II PO A E Barquin, rf ....... , . . 4 2 2 1 0 0 Farrell, 2b ........ , .. 4 I} 2 4 2 0 Hunt, cf ............ 4 () 0 2 0 0 Coppinger, lb ........ 4 1 1 11 0 0 Corbisero, c ....... , . , 3 1 0 4 3 0 ValenUne, If . . . . . . . . . 3 a 0 2 0 0 x-Forbes ......... , , . 1 1 1 0 0 0 Buornerba, cf .. , , .. 0 0 0 1 0 0 Mulcahy, ss ...... , , . . 4 2 2 0 3 0 Newman, p . . . . . . . . . . 1 () 0 fl 1 0 Burkewitz, p ..... , , . , 0 0 0 0 1 0 McKinley ......... , .. () 0 0 0 0 0 xx-Maurer ........... 0 1 0 0 0 0. Whitton, p .. . .. . .. . . . 1 0 0 0 0 0 Totals .............. 33 9 8 27 12 2 NOTT .RESTAURANT and BAR ·Roy .Siinrr onds, Syracuse coach, commented after Wednesday's game that the Union lacrosse squad was markedly ·improved from last year when Syracuse beat the Garnet 8-0. Union traveled to Clinton today to battle the Hamilton Blue and White. Coach Fred Wyatt antici- · pate·d a win for his stickmen. Ne:xt Wednesday will see an away game with Williams. The only common opponent has been Dartmouth who beat both Williams and Union by large scores, 5 LOOSE ENDS by HERB SAXE The raucous voice of Union's proletariat. that self-appointed group of dullards falling under the pro I i fi c species, \Buffoon us Unionus,\ who make it their duty to belittle any and all activities un the campus, has been raised in an anguished howl this past week. As is usual the issue in question is one of v)tal import. \How come there's no bal'l gam11 thi::; weekend?\ \There's never anything doing on Prom Weekend.\ \What'll we do Saturday after- noon?\ \Get smart. ldd. This school spirit is all the bur.k,\ says the lofty \Bu!Ioonus\ with his usual acumen . Aftet• this sagacious comment the \Buffoonus\ wails loudly and gnashes his teeth he<'nusP there is no ball game scheduled for Prom Weekend. Such brilliant log·ic. I can't understand it but for some strange reason it seems that our athletes don't like the idea of going to bed at ten o'clock the night of the Prom, getting up early on Saturday for pmctice, kr.ocking themselves out on Saturday after- Remarks of the above caliber noon so that they are too tired to are typical of the \Bu!Ioonus enjoy a \mug o' suds\ on Saturday Unionus\ species. How anyone ·night. Is this so inexplicable? could ask how they'll spend their It's just possible that athletes also time in the company of a young ·enjoy the mundane ph·asures of lady over a Prom \Veekend is be- having a good time. Of course it yond my comprehension. But since is d.iffucult to explain this to the the intelligence quotient of these intellectual \Buffoonus;\ but ath- \boobs\ is, in itself, a moot ques- letes are human too. tion, perhaps this woeful laclr of Most of our athletes don't ob- initiative can be ignored in the ject to knocking themselves out light of its source. It's almost im- every afternoon in the week; but possible to squeeze water out of a they do object to giving up a Prom stone. Weekend. The singular attribute of the \So what?\ says the \Buffoon us.\ \Buffoonus Unionus\ is his unmiti- \Nothing is ever done around gated desire for self satisfaction here the way I like it.\ at anyone's else expense. You know Isn't it a sharr.e? The only pas- the old routine-Hooray for me, sible solution to this appalling forget my pal. situation would be to let the \Buf- Th'e \Buffoonus\ is the guy who foonus\ hibernate in his cubicle sits in class all day, studies all over Prom Weekend and prodi- night and then tells the baseball ~iously prepare himself for the player, who sits on his left in class final exams which are, after all, that the on!~ reason the diamond- only a month away. Forget the man is flunking the course is be- \Buffo·unus\ ~xists and enjoy cause he's out for baseball. \Primavera:• THE GETTYSBURG ADDRESS *Just ten stirring sentences in alL But they are an immortal expression of democracy and freedom. Shown here, in Abraham Lincoln's own handwriting, is part of the manuscript from which he spoke on the afternoon of Nov. 19, 1863. The original, along with more than a hundred documents famous in American history, is on exhibit aboard the \Freedom Train\. This train is now on a nationwide tour. Watch for its arrival in your area! Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING • Right Outside Green Gcafe WINES - LIQUORS and BEER Be proud of what you write and the way you write it! • • • 1115 IARRETT STRI!IT PHIL ENGLEBA·RDT'S LIQUOR STORE 519 Union Street Between Bar1•ett and Jay Street .. .,hone 3-3110 Just a Step from the Campus :MD STATE 8'1'.-Sin~ 1898 I . a, ,.,. ...... ,., ...... A --- GAZETTE y ......................... - .............................. ~' ·Printers Pride comes with the possession of a Parker \51\. • For this is the world's most~ wanted pen ... flaw- less in its beauty and performance. It writes in a way that does you proud. No urging. No coaxing. The \51\ starts instantly. Coasts across the page with clean, easy . strokes. Two sizes: regular \51\ and new demi-size. Both with choice of custom points. The Parker Pen Co., Janesville, Wis., U.S.A., and Toronto, Can. Parker\ 51\ · 07 ~ 4 lWa.t werz:n,(./\

I. '!' 6 FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1948 Officers Elected As Club Is Formed To Support Stassen PRIZE DAY !Continued from Page 1) prize for proficiency in French: Anthony F. Coppola, Schenectady, $25. Pre-Meds ta Meet Due to circumstances which caused a reversal of the holding of their regular meeting, the Pre- Medical Society will hold its first meeting of the month for the pri- mary purpose of electing officers for the coming term in the Bio- logy Building Room 203 on Mon- day, May 10 at 12:30. Scouts Present Flag to College Dming Chapel on May 4th, the Union College Scouts Service Mov·e· ment presented tt\e college with a new American Flag to replace the battered banner that had adorned arnutnr Formation of a Union College chapter of Stud-ents for Stassen committee was announced last night by Lyall Dean. chairman of the new group. Tht> organization is pledged to support the nomin- ation and election uf Ha1old E. Stassen as the Republican can- didate for Presit!ent. Warner King engineering prize to the graduating engineering stu- dent who has contributed most to the col!Pge: Ralph Van Duzee, Buf- falo, $60. Kruesi prize for character de- Stemfeld philosophical prize for the campus for some time. An- velopment: Alfred E. Bobst, Jr., the best original essay in philoso- drew DcHont made the pl'esenta- Schencctady, $25, phy: Ivan H. Scheier, Plattsburg, tion and Dr. Carter Davidson ac- · \A Causa Per sa Pa1·o!e Assai\ Member Associated Col· leglate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver· tiEing Representative: Na· tiona! Advertising Service, Inc., College Publ-Ishers Repre.sentative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub- I!shed every Friday or the school year. Hall, Union College. Pub· lica tion Office, The Ga· zette Press, 334 State St. !entered in the Schenec- tady Post Office as Sec- ond Class Mai-l Matter, March 27, 1905, under the Act of March 3, 18.79. Subscription lOc a copy, $3 year; delivered ar)Ywhe,·e in the United State~. A t'harter fllr the oq.;anlzation was issu!'d yest<>rday by Harold E. Stassen's Eaett>rn States Head- quarters in New York. Other of- ficers of the chapter include John M. Newton, Jr., Secretary. and Jc>hn R. Vt>sty, Treasurer. The Union C0llege unit is affilia.tl'd with the National Students for Stassen committee in Minneapolis, Minnt>sota. and with ~be Eastem division of this committre in New York. The committee plans to assist Sta~sen·~ campaign by distributing informatir'.n and campaign liter- ature; huHd·ing a~ large a chapter as possible nn the campus; assist- ing in the organization of other col- lt>!?e chaptt>r:<; writing to friends in other states where primary elec- tions a1·c being hf.'ld, urging them to vot<' for delegatPs fa\·orable to ~r. St:J.~s('n; :•nd by developing H eas to pn>molt> the Stassrn cam- paign. ----- ·0----·- Exam Changes CL;tn.L,t :-> in tht· t~n·t.l t·Xa m :-\J( ht·d·- ltlfl l 1 n\'~' h~\'Pn ~1nrnnnrPcl ~~ fol Io\\·s· En~lt•h z;,h ~rl,rdui<'rl for Thm,._ <!a~ .. Jurw 3 :r·t I 3n. \\!II he gin•n Tl·11r '>1-iy .Jurw Ill :.t 1 30 P}l\\<.::il·;: ~1h fnr ~'lt1Jrri:-t\\ .T11n0 !i nt R·:w will h\ gi\'<'n Thnr<>dnv J1111P 3, H·3!l. . .. Biology ::?4h sl'!:t•dniP<I fill\ Satur- day, June !'i nt 1 ·3!1. will he gi\·en Tu~sd~y. June 1 at 1:30. Gl'ology ::?a 'Enginee1·i ng. first t!'I m l 'dwd.uled fnr Jun!' 1 nt R·3(l will b!' gi\'l'n Friday. Jun!' 4 at 1:30. - .. 0--- IF(: Elects 0 f fict>rs ThP t.:nion Cr]]pgp Inter-fratPI'· nit~· Connt'il 11f'ld thPir nnnual Plec- tion last TuP•day. May 4th. nt 3:45. As a result of this \VaJtpr Doran of Delta Phi wil ]etnt·t in next tl'rm as PrPsidPnt of thP C\ur.c-'i!. with Stuart McLeary, Phi liamma Delta as Vice-presid<>nt and DunC':rn Lnshet· of Alpha DPltn Phi s<'nted firm]~· as SE'rt\Ptary-TrPasurr r. ----0---- IXSCHEOS TICKETS All Hale House lunch and dinner tkkPte must either bP n><ed up or 1 edePmed this tel m, Comptroller Anthony Hondlr>y rev<'alt>d today. Caf('terin sf.'l\\'ice for thP ,,ummer tf'rm will be on a caooh basis, and this term's t.i<'kPts will not be honored n<·xt Fall. The F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., N.Y. Pulman pl·izes tor high scholastic $50. cepted the pennant on behalf of standing in litl'raturc and engineer- Prize in Economics the college. The new flag was ing: Classical -Albert l\1. Lyles, Thomo'Dn economics prize for the then placed in the cusotody of the Kendricli, Fla., $50; engineering- best eso1ay on individual enterprise gt·oup, who have assumed the re- Charles L. Gould, Schenectady, $50 •. or democracy: Donald Sirldn, New sponsibility f.or having it displayed Editorial Office, Washburn Rich p1 ize for that senior who York, $50. at the proper times. M.A.NAGI.NG BOARD ha,, made the best collection of James Henry Turnbull prize in books during his college years: physics for the outstanding sopho- Raymond A. McCoy, Schenectady,. more i·n that field.: Lather Schnit- $25. kin, Fores-t Hills, $50. Richmond prizes in music appre· riation: Jacques V. Stolzman, Griffith prize in, psychology: Fluoohing, $50; John T. Randerson, Ralph W. Fingar, Germantown, $25. Diamond Point, $25. Chi Psa award to the member of Oppenheim prizC' for the fresh- that ftatemity with the highest man with the highe~\i: standing in sC\holastiC' standing: John M. New- L·ttin: Irwin Fritedman. New York, ton, Jr., Springfield, Mass., $200. $50. Special award for out,t.mding Freling H. Smith prize in history: participation in col!Pge activities: Edward V. Chrr:ielski. Albany, $35; Anthony J. Easterbrook, Bristol, Jack Tway, Oklahoma City, $35. England, $25. \Come on, J , mother promised us Dentyne Chewing Gum if we only sat through it once!\ \Not even Frankie Swoonatra could make me miss Dentyne Chewing Gum! That nifty flavor really sends me-l mean it really does. And the way Dentyne helps keep my teeth white, l wanta turn on the old smile all the time.\ Dentyne Gum- Made Only By Adams COKE AND MUSIC FOR HAPPY MOMENTS trade-m11rl:s mtan the same thing. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA COLA BOTTLING CO. © 1948, The Ccx:a·Cola Company The flag rasing ceremony that followed after was attended by Dr. David~on, Fred Wyatt, Professor Weel\S and. members of the student body. Acting as color guards were \NHliam DeLo1·enzo, Andrew De- Rant, Gene Girat·d. Byron Tietjen, John MiHer, Sherman Stein, Peter' Kelly and James LaForest. The ceremony ma:rks the fulfmment of the fir!\t of many projects planned by the group. \N ) 0 OTHER CIGARETTE CAN TAKE CHESTERFIELD'S PLACE George T. erick .................................................. ,l,<litor Albert ('orbo ........................................... )lanagiug- I'tllwr Ja;mes lllur-ray .............................................. Xews I•:uitor James Httar ......... · ...................................... Fenture :t:ditor Herhert Saxe ............................................... S(Iorts I·:dltor Lambert Gins·berg ................•..•................. Uu!->in(~~o.~ :uunu!.!;t'r Frauds ;\Ieehan ..................................... (\il•t•ulation Jlttnlli!:OJ' W~E~Y,\ CURRENTLY STARRING IN ''THE BIG CLOCK\ A PARAMOUNT PICTURE , ... ..... .·•·· .. (' .... ,... :::::('' ~~~::'·;;:'~'~)- WHY. .. I smoke Chesterfield (FRO~ A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) Llggett & Myers buy top quality cigarette tobacco and.pay top prices for it •• • nobody will average paymg more than they do year in and year out. I've been smoking Chesterfields ever since I've been smoking. I just like them , , , they have real tobacco Ravo1·. , J? tt/~ It!~ FARMER-DANVILLE,VA.

7, 1948 Pub- Ga- te St. 1enec~ Sec- 'atter, ~r the 1879. >PY. $3 whe.a·e g4 .I·:ditor Iltlitor I·:ditor :t:tlitor Ilditor Editors· Abide With ·Council • Founded at Union College in 1877 The :abolition of the ptiblicl!tions' cuts system by the action of the --~---------------------------------------------- ---------------- new st1:1dent co1:1ncil last week has iaspired many .false impressions of Vol. 70~ No. 26 SC':fENEC.TADY, 'N, Y., FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS a mass exodus of editorial and business personnel from the student --------------------------------------------------------- ·publications. S1:1ch an attitude is l:lnwarranted, •bl:lt it is indicative of on ~:Ye~~:~l.t~:l\:fa~h~:~~bl~\~~~-p,ublicatiGrtS work solely for money .. ·s·t· ·u· ,d·. :.· .. en. ' ·.·t. ' ·s w··' ' .. · l···I· 1·.'··· ' B· ..• '.. ·e: P·oll·ed Speakiag for the ·editorial :boards o£ both the Concordiensis and the Idol, there has not been and will not be a change of personnel due .to the elimination of the cut system. We have accepted the .d.ictate of ·F· · d R e e c · e the council, although we :feel that the coundl failed t0 consider all . ·. ' ·. · · of the necessary factorsnefGre coming to their condusioa. ' • . • u n· :. ' • . . . ·. a· ' 1 s I·· ' n g . . .a·. m. . p· . a· 'I g D· Constitutionality Questioned D1:1ring the many heated discussions of .the cut system, it was --~---~---------------~~ The students of Union College will be polled this pointed .out the publications board was set up by Dean Garis as an autonomous .board, .and this board established the present c1:1t system. PhiJltarmonic Jazz week to determine whether or not they favor the The decision of the student council, if it is to be heeded will im- pi'Oposed four hundred thousand dollar field house mediately determine the council's authority over the publications boaFd. or a broader building campaign which would include We feel that such -a quest·ion is one of constitutionality, 1md if desired other much-needed structures. can be brought to a legal fight. But this would necessitate administra-, Plans for the poll were announced yesterday in chapel by tive arbitration. Ken Whalen, tempomry president of the student council, who This would completely destroy our personal ideal of student • reported increasing demands for a re-examination of the government and would completely negate all advances made in re- • matter. sponsible action on the part of student bodies in administering their· own affairs. It would be an unwise move to allow the admiaistration or faculty to sit in as a supreme wurt for student government. If the' student body has a clearly defined program of self-direction, it should· never be necessary for any outside body either to retard or prod: undergraduate action. \Ve 'repeat: we shall adhere to the decision .of the student council. But if the students arc to maintain self-government, we feel that we should have the recourse to the proper machinery for an appeal of the cut.issue. At the rnoment, the stwlent council is not o~o~ly the legislative, but also, acrording to thE\ir ov1rn definition, the judicial body of gov- ernment. They have actE\d in a judiciary capacity either by neglecting.· the constitutionality of the issue involved or by considering themselves' rhe proper ·body for such interpretative action. Press• Fl'eedom Impel'iled If this condition is to exist, and if we are to remain free from Pictw:ed above are several of the musicians who will hold forth in \Pastel Shades\ next Wednesday. From left to right in the fiirst administrative interference, the present council can in the future be row are: Roger Schrader, Bill Maynar.d and Dave Martin; second used as a strangle hold on the college publications. The council must I'ow, same order, Jack Fischell, Dave Fithian and Dave Comstock. determine their relationship to the publications board. In the past· Bandleader Art Agnello is pictured in insert. Photo by Schwartz the cbuncil has had the power to control the editorial organs of the ---------------~-------_.:... ___ _ coilege by the manipulation of .the purse strings. But up until the 7\.T .~ew· o'&I'Phest~ntz•ons present time that power had never been exercised. \Vith this recent 1\U4 1 (...- 1 U decision the coum:il has firmly established its power over the press. This has dangerous implications for the future. The student council ··.S~n. ark ''Das.tel srz.. ·ades· ' must revise its constitution and perhaps even recommend a new '.1:' r ~ ,, publications board comprised solely of student members. Joseph Enzer George T. Orick ----------------------------------~-- Hold Conference on U. S. Position In World Affairs In a special practice session held Wednesday night the Union College Dance Band, under the baton of Art Agnello, put finishing touches on their numbers in preparation for next Wednesday's concert. The show will start at 8:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel. No points will be given but admission will be free. Philliarmonic Jazz The band, through a philhar- monic jazz style somewhat similar The Union College International Relations Club, in con~ to Stan Kenton's, has been able to J 'unction with the Schenectady County League of Women· p 1 •oduce a program of special ar- rangments that stands out for its Voter.s presented its annual high school conference at Union ability to bring out the most in D-Chi Code Terms Illegal By John Bowers each musician. Because of the College on Tuesday, May 11. The subject for discussion this ban placed on it by Local 85, Am- year was \The United States and World Affairs: the Chal- erican Federation of Musicians, Delta Chi fraternity has termed , the band has been unable to appear the city's zoning ordinance as lenge for Leadership.\ except in Chapel programs but \illeg_aJ void and unconstitutional\ ~---·------------- nevertheless has been practicing 'insofa-r as it concerns the frater- Disc.ussion Groups stassen Leads l •n regularly. nity and the city's attempt to evict The program centered around Delta Chi from theil• present real- five discussion groups which met With Special Arrangements cence at 1227 Wendell Ave. at Bailey Hall to debate the topic· Popu}ari•ty Vote Most of the arrangements, in- The attorney representing Delta informally and a general session · · · eluding thre·e by the band's bari- Chi has answered the city's requ·est afterwards in Old Chapel where a Harold Stassen piled up a big tone man, Fred Pr~1tt. and one col- for an injunction against that student representing each round lead over fourteen other presi- laboration of Pratt and Agnello, fraternity by contending that the table summed up the discussion in dential aspirants in a straw vote have been created particularly for zoning regulations \cannot be his group and President Carter taken earlier this afternoon in the college combination. \Blue Sur- legally enforced in this or any Davidson delivered a sheri con\ · th t' d' '' D It Memorial Chapel. Of a total of real,\ their theme, was written and o er ac wn or procee mg. e a cl~;~ding address. In charge of 343 votes, 112 went to Stassen. arranged by a close friend of Ag- Chi has asked the suprem·e court round tables. were Dr. Harold A. t d' · th t' b b th Henry Wallace, third. party can- neUo's who is now studying music o 1Smtss e ac wn egun y e Larrabee, Dr. Frederick L. Bon- t E t c 'ty didate, was second in the popu- at . he as man onservatory in 01 · ner, Mr. Joseph Rotundo, Mr. John larity poll with 53 votes. Rochester. Among the Pratt-ar- In an effort to avoid any fur- F. Lewis, and Mr. Joseph Finkel- Governor Thomas E. Dewey of ranged tunes are \Moonstruck\ and ther zoning disputes the city plan- stein, re~pectively assisted by stu- New Yorlt ran a Close third with \Torch Song\ by Charles DeMa~teo ning commission has appointed a Art Course: Dept. Status Details of Poll The poll will be conducted by members of the student council who will distribute forms at dormi- tories and fraternity houses this week end. Off-campus students may obtain forms at the student activities office, Whalen reported. It has recently been announced The alumni gift fund committee thnt the Art Appreciation Course has committed itself to raise about to bp givPn next year will be the $400,000 for a field house within the basis of an eventual four-year pro-. nPxt three years. The plan was gram in art requiring the entire· approved by the g·raduate council time of a member of the staff. This in the spring of 1947, one year program, to be under the direction aftPr it was first presented to Car- of a newly created department of ter Davidson, Union president, by art, has been made available Fred Wyatt, graduate council sec- through a special gift from Walter retary. C, Baker, pt·ominent alumnus of Result of Complaints Union. Whalen said that executive com- To head this> new depar·tment and mittee of the student council, sen- to teach next year's course, the sitive to student opinion, called for college has appointed Dr. Frank P. the poll after hearing many com- Albright, now at the University of plaints that the present plan for Tennessee. He will join the staff the field house is inadequate. with the rank of asSJistant profes- Whalen also reported strong feel- sor. He will also teach courses in ing on the campus for a broader Latin and Greek, permitting ex- fund-raising campa,ign with a goal pansion in that field. of several million dollars to be This carries out to some extent spent for the construction of sev- the cultural program that Union is era! other buildings thought neces- attempting to offer. In relation to sary to the college. · this, and to the editorial page ar- In announcing the poll, Whaien ticle in last week's issue advocat- cited other colleges' expenditures ing \cap&ule culture,\ several mem- for buildings in recent years, point- hers of the faculty and administra- ing out that Union, reputedly well- tion have been contacted for in- endowed, lags behind in vital con- formation. Consensus of opinion struction. from those appr.oached on the sub- ---o·--- ject seems to be favorable. As yet nothing positive has been done but this is because the opportunity has not presented Itself. Feeling among both students and faculty on the matter of \capsule culture\ is that the program would be worthwhile if (1) faculty mem- bers were not pressured into teach- ing short courses the did not wish to, (~) the feeling of compulsion was entirely removed, (3) reputable men could be procured to teach, ( 4 enough time can be found in crowded schedules, (5) co-operation i s forthcoming f r o m students, faculty and administration, ---0--- Last in Broadcast Series Following the success of the re- cent \all professor's wives\ broad- cast, WRUC has announced that Tu-esday, May 18, at 7:3() p.m. \Your Turn Professor\ will wel- come Mr.s. Murphy, Mrs. Schwartz, Mrs. Coffin, and Mrs. Sheffer, as guests. This will also be the final broadcast of this progvam for the PUITent season. Say Garnet Editor Quit Malcolm Hopkins has re&igned as editor .of the Garnet, yearbook of Union College, it was reported es- terday afternoon. He had been named to the post at a meeting of the publications board last month. Hopkins, asked last night for confirmation of the report, would make no comment. Nor would he comment on his reaction to the recent action of the student council in abo.Jishing monetary cuts for publications staffs. Should the reported resignation of Hopkins be accepted by the pub- lications board it would necessitate the appointment of a new editor. The edit.or of the yearbook is usually selPcted from among the members of the Junior class. It is also possible that one of the as- sociate editors of the magazine may be selected to fill the pos>ition. dent chairmen Ralph Nestle, Jack 51 votes. · and Vincent DeBaun, both original-. committee to find a fool proof de- Tway, Ro. ger Williams, Bernard 1 h d I d f \L fi 'tl f f 'I Th 't ~ l Add Others, in the order of prefer- Y sc e u e or ullaby Fare- m on o a amt Y· e comm1 - R D J! McGivern, and Harshall Heyman. ence, were: well,' the original musical by the tee is to report to the commission ev. e 0 I e resses. Among the phases of world poli· Eisenhower 33, Vandenberg 23, two students. next week on it's findings. At tics ·which were considered at the Truman 21, Warren 18, MacArthur The band features a fine brass. present the city zoning regulation C'h l L M h conference were the E.R.P .. the 7, Taft 6, Norman Thomas 6, Wil- secti·on, sparked by Agnello him- contain no such definition but does . ape. on ate a atm.a U.N. and its opportunities, the in· liam Douglas 4, Joseph Martin 4, self, and a very easy to look at define a single f:.lmily dwelling as fluerice of democracy in world al- Saltonstall 3, Earl Long 1, and Wll- Schenectady vocalist, Miss Marion a \detached dwelling designed for, fairs, the United States policy to- liam Randolph Hearst 1. Maul. Marion has been working and occupied exclusively by one \Don't dismiss Gandhi as a man ~ wards Russia, and United States Thomas, Douglas, Saltonstall, with the band all winter to gain . family.\ It specifically states that with a queer idea,'' said the Rev- use the technique of pass>ive re- leadership in world economic Long and Hea 1 :st appeared . as. experience that is not available fraternities are permitted in the erend Martin DeWolfe, mini&ter of sistance. policies. write-ins on the ballots. elsewhere in Schenectady. multiple dwelling district. the Second Reformed Church, in P~wer in Idealism ---------------------------------------------~·Me~~~ ilie commisslon.W~n~deyCh~~ \T~re~nood \T~re ~anal~wR ~ i~al- moved to strengthen the zoning to loolt into his life and accom- ism, a power greater than any force P .,...nsz·den t 's o.e.ez·.ce Announces £l'h· an· .ue·s. ~egulations through a new zoning plishments with all kinds of spirit- which men have been able to place 1 II[/ II j \.;J order which is soon to be plac·ed ual diligence.\ on fellow men,\ said DeWolfe. ·before the city c·ouncil. The new DeWolfe has long been a stu- Gandhi, with organized moral cour- T th P lt • TT • D t t order calls for heavier penalties dent of Mohandas K Gandhi an·tl age, was a.ble to give his people a l.n '' e r acu y zn , arzous e.nar m. en s for violation of these regulations. in his ta.Jk reviewed the events moral force \greater than the little ':1:' The commission voted to recom- which led up to the humble man's pigmy might of people who club P f V . R . k ~ mend a p·el>alty of not more than using passive resistance as a poli- .y.ou o•·er the head.\ 1'0 essor Jadim1r OJans y, $1 000 · · · 'I b th v · . • a year m Ja1 · or o . for tical forcP. DeWolfe .also commented o.n the present chairman of the Physics of the college. A holder of .the preparation for heavy upper-class th h · 1 th department, asked some time ago Ph.D. from Iowa. he was acting enrollment next fall in certain af- ose w 0 v 10 ate e new zoning Be True To Self civil rights laws in the United to be relieved of administrative president of Knox in 1946-47. fected courses. law. Gandhi went to Oxford for his States by saying that if Gandhi and Commission members voiced fhe t d duties in order that he might re- The granting of sabbatical leaves It was also announced that As- education and attempted to get his followers had attemp e anY- turn full time to teaching and re- of absence to Professors Stanley. sistant Professor Robert Rodney ·opinion that they- were ~ecure in \sophisticated\ the way a good thing similar in this country, they h I tl h . t S tt d F II th d t f 1 t . their position on the Delta Chi Oxford man should. He· wasn't the· would have been arrested as searc . n gran · ng 1s reques co an arre ; e epar ure o . eaves o accept the chairmanship dispute but cited ·the apparent the Administration announces that Messrs. Finkelstein, Robbins, Ul'- of English at Northeast Missouri ty.pe and soon decided that he ,subverts. Dr. Haroid E. Way will be re- bano and Yovits to pursue gradu- State Teachers College; that As- ~i~~d J;rw~:fi~~~~t~~u~~ ~h~a~i~~: should be true to himself and \build The minister said that inh_thhe 1 past sponsible for the administrative ate studies; and the resignation· of · sistant Professor Ernst Pulgram his life not upon the froth of so- ·ideas> such as Gandhi's w 1c lave chairmanship of the department Associate Pr·ofessor Godcharles to ·.leaves to accept a position in Com~ ciety but upon basic tl'uths.\ come before the populace have been as well as taking on full duties .of accept the chl;l,irmanship of the parative Philology at the Univer- Listen To DeWolfe cited the events which cast off as just something dreamed professor in that department. Dr. department of Psy.chology at sity of Michigan; that Mr. Eugene, C d S k led to Gandhi's trip to Johannes- up. He hopes that people today Way comes from Knox College 1 Davidson College in North Caro- Hayes leaves to aceept an Assist- oncor Y pea S burg\ to fight a court case and how, will review Gandhi's ideas and not where he received his B:S. and· of !ina caused for numerous changes· ant Professorship of English at 7:45 p.in. Fri. Qn WRUC upon seeing the despicable condi- deal them the same fate. late has been the Vice President in faculty personnel to be made in (Continued on Page 4) t'!ons under which the Indians there , were forced to live, urged them to

'-.!· ·'' . ' ' ' . I I,: '; fl' 'I I' ' II ~ 2 <tLnntnr Member Associated Col- legiate Press and distri- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Tiepresentath·e: Na- tional Advertising Service, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 4~0 .l\1a<ii- son Ave .• .N. Y. C. l'ul.J~ llshed every Friday of the school year. Editorial Office,Washburn Hall, Union College. :Pub- lication Office, The Ga- zette Press, 334 State St. Entered in the Schenec- tady Post Ofr!ce as Sec- ond Class Mftil Matter, subscription lOe a copy; $3 year; delivered any- where in the United States. l\IA.NAGING BOAl?.D George T. Ori(•k ................................. EditOol' Albert Corbo ......................... Managing Editor James llu.rmy ........................... .News Editor James Bu.ar .......................... Associate Editor Herbert Saxe ........................... Sports Editor Francis iHe~lum .................. Circulation lllanager Lambw·.t Ginsberg· ................. Business J\IanagN' No columnist, writing under a by-line in this paper, is subject to censorship either from within or outside of the Concordiensis office. George T. Orick Letters Has Facts, He Says To the editor: I wish to publish the facts of an incident re- ported in the last issue of The Concordiensis. The parts of the issue referred to are the news story on the front page and James Bam·'s second page column titled \The Happy Hour.\ I question the facts and Baat·'s interpretation of those facts. First the facts: the news story states \some half dozen Union undegraduates rose from their s·eats in Memorial Chapel half way through Dr. Arthur· Cushman McGiffert's sermon and indignantly left the service.\ Just for the record, several days' work on my part has revealed only three students who actually walked out during the service. Baar wrote his column from information received from only these three students. Two of these same three (l couldn't find the third) admit that the only part of the sermon they recalled was that portion men- tioning the Catholic Church. When asked what Dr. McGiffert talked about in his sermon, one of the students who walked out stated, \I wouldn't remember, really, I didn't pay that much attention.\ Another student who walked out of the s·ervice stated, \The main idea of the talk was to prove the superiority of Protestantism, because Protestant- ism needs no emissary from God.\ If the last state- ment were correct, the chat·ges made would be valid, however on checking with a number of other people, including several student::; and Dr. Carter Davidson, I find that Dr. Giffort's thesis was actually an ob- jective analysis of Protestantism, and that the only remarks made referring to other religions were made by way of elucidation, to wit, to C·Ontrast one against the other, Catholisism was not the only religion so used. In an interview with Dr. Carter Davidson on Tues- day afternoon, he stated, fir:;t, that Chaplain Brown ha:; nothing to do with the subject material of any visitin.g minister; second, that he. personally, could see nothing offensive in the sermon; and third, that the college policy must be such that the college cannot censor the remarks of a chapel speaker for any reason whatsoever. Dt'. Davidson went on to say that the Sunday chapel speakers are selected from the outstand.ing men in each denomination in the country, with as wide a selection as possible from among the various denominations, Protestant and Jewish. Catholic priests are not allowed by the church to speak in the college chapel. In regards to columnist Baar's charge that Dr. McGiffert's subject material violated· the college policy on non-denominationalism, Dr. Davids·on said the sermon was in perfect accordance with that policy, and that any attempt to alter the existing policy would be a curtailment of the right of free speech. (Aside to James Baar, Jim, has anyone ever tried to tell you what you could or could not write in your column?) The columnist further charges the chaplain with incompetency, in this affair, but actually, the only incompetency was in the reporting. In short, I believe in publishing the facts, all the facts. I sincerely hope The Concordiensis will not sink to the level of sensationalism as is exhibited in certain large newspapers. Gentlemen, I want the truth, unexpurgated, all the time. There is no excuse for withholding it! For more and, better journalism, I remain., Robert A. Navias The news story, as well as the column, was written by Ba.ar, Mr. Navias. In the fo1•mer he stuck to facts; in the latter he expressed opinion. -(Ed. Note) Sex Here to Stay? To the editor: I would like to make a few comments on what I consider very poor judgment on the part .of the person responsible for the recent article on the sexual promiscuity at Union being the basis of in- formation for the \Kinsy\ report. At any other time, it might have attained the humorous vein in which it was obviously written and for which it was Intended; but prom weekend, in my opinion, is hardly the time for such humor, epeclally follow- ing a similiar occurrance at the time of the last prom. It seems you are trrinig to set a precedent for such affairs . . . John A. Thornblad. More Comment on Baar James Baar, with an insight very rare in his particular case, has taken to champion a very ex- cellent cause. The majority of students who attend Sunday morning chapel are (1) se·eking two credits or (2) hoping to listen to impartial educators ex- pound general philosophy of Jiving. A service for the benefit of the general spiritual welfare of Union studen.ts is much n·eeded at least once a week, but not one· that preaches religious dogma. Chaplain Brown has secured very liberal speakers in the past. May he be reminded to do so in the future. Jim Bryson FRIDAYi MAY 14, 1948 Come and Get Your Points The Happy Ho11r By James A. Baar Stm<la.y Chapel Points who attended the campus services, The McG.jffert Sermon incident 'some alteration did take ·place, in has brought home to Union College ,this matter though by reducing the more deci&ively than ever before ;total number of points required the fact that the entire chapel- from 50 to 40, thereby enabling religious ar1angement on the men who wished to attend .off' ca·mpus today is somewhere at ,campus services to do so·. This fault. This can not be denied even· quite fairly made Sunday chapel an by those who have attempted to .. 1rbitrary affair for the individuail pooh-pooh the matter as if it were' ''ttldent. merely a minor aberration in a Here then is the pituation U,p to well oiled sy,.,tem. For two years the McGiffert incident of two weeks now the College has been subjected ago. One actual .spiritual service to one form of required religious , --~as held a wee-\c in Memorial service after another until we have ·Chapel open f.or an and entitled 1 each Ed the present ruling now in , non-denominational. Accord,ing to effect, and all have proven them- the theory one would easily be able selves t'Omehow incapable of doing to make up a sufficient number of the job requil·ed. This being the .point& by attendi·ng only secular caE·e it would be certainly wise at tprograms, and the non-denomina- the present time to review the basic :tiona-! service was there for only ideas behind required religious those who wanted to attend. Sunday chapel is completely up to the indiv.,idual, why should two points be given for thl:!j attend- ance? The Administration's an- swer to this is that they wish to maintain ,Sunday Chapel as a pal't of the cut,f'iculum of the Col.Jege. '!'his,. however, is vicious non- sense. Whether Chapel credit is handed out or not has nothing to do with whether a function within the campus community is a part of the College curriculum or not. I do not believe that a baseball ga,me wou:ld be anymore a pa:rt of the Co'llege prog.ram if credit were handed out for attending. ... I agree with Jim Baar's column wholehearted- ly. My objection if any is that the column was too weak. As to whether he was right or not, the answer to that is contained in the words \non-de- nominational services.\ It is the chaplain's duty to see that these services Live up to their name. Jim Baar, I believe was fully justified in bringing this to the attention of the chaplain, and the fornmlators of college policy, the administration. Thlilliam Kelly - - - In view of the general reaction to the talk, I would become trite and say-There's a time and a place-and a non-sectarian chapel seems to fall short. Baar's column may have seemed strong, but it presented the only logical stand--one that falls in line with the stated policy of the college on religious issues. A. A. Agnello. I feel that the insert page in the May 7, 1948 issue of the Concordiensis, purporting to show that the Kinsey Report was made at Union College, was per- fectly all right as concerns decency and taste. I also feel that the Happy Hour by James Baar was a V\\ell handled report and analysis of an unfor- tunate situation. - Robert Field - - - the question whther or not a student has the right to criticize the faux pas of his elders is not d.ebatable. As long as criticism is within the realm of truth, and good taste, suppression of that criticism would be extremely high-handed. Arthur G. Phillips, Instructor, English - - - Nobody has cleared up the question of whether ·Or not the chapel service is denominational or non-denominational. Baar in pinning the blame on the chaplain, is obviously pushing his pet pee\'P, but apparently the whole thing needs clearing up. Henry .J. Swanker. Asst. Professor, Chemistry. In regard to Mr. Baar's article \The Happy Hour\ in the May 7th Concordy, I wish to comment in support of the ideas contained therein. Mr Baar, on many unwarranted occasions, has foamed at. the mouth, and on these occasions I have seriously dis-· agreed with him. However, I feel that Dr. McGif- fert was definitely stepping out of line by crawing a comparison between Catholicism and Protestant- ism, since such a comparison achieves nothing. Mr. Baar should be complimented for attempting to un- cover this erring situation. Charles H. Rourke. For Your Information During the 1948 summer session, North and South College dormitories will be used by men and wo- men at the Summer Science Session and those at- tending the Character Research Workshop. Dormi- tories in the pasture will be available for students attending the summer session and for those taking summer courses in surveying. Applications should be made to the management office in Dutchmen's Village. Students living in these dormitories w.ho wish to retain rooms for the summer must notify the management office before May 21st. Oth~rs should make reservations between May 24th anc June 4th. Registration for make-up tests to be given Mon- day-Tuesday, May 24, 25 must be completed at lhe Office of the Registrar befol'e four-thirty Tuesday, May 18. Changes in Final Exam Schedules: Geology 21b <Mineralogy) May 31, 1:30 to June 1, 8:30. Geol Lab 23. Geology 23b <Structural) June 5. 1:30 to 8:30. English 21b (Shakespeare) June 5, 8:30 to 1:30. Chemistry 24b (Chemical Literature) .June 10, 8:30 to June 5, 1:30. English 1b (Section 7) report to Gym, not CE 106. Graduation annotmcements and name cards can now be ordered through the student activi- ties office. The deadline fot· orders will be Wed- nesday, May 19. ($1.10 for 10 eng<rave<l an- nouncements.) Request cards for Dormitory Room reservations for the Sept·ember, 1948-February, 1948 term will be distributed to both the coliege and Munici!ap. Hous- ing domitories on Monday, May 10. Other students may obtain cards from the Comptroller's office on that date. These reservation cards should be returned to the comptroller's office beginning Monday, May 17, and wHl no,t be accepted b~fore that date. Room assign- ments will be made beginning 'rhursday, May 20. Rooms will be assigned in order of receipt of the reservation card with preference given to the present · occupant. Notice of room assignment will be made by Jetter to the student's college addl'ess about June 3. The college policy for housing studen,ts is set forth in thEf catalog. services and to perhaps arrive .at The issue then boils down to one some new view of the situation. of definitions regarding the term It wa.s believed during the early \non-denominational.\ There is no n:onths of C. V. B1·0wn',;o tenure of point of turning to the dictionaries office that religion should, must, in this matter as what they say •nd would play an important part is not important. What is of im- in the college curriculum. In lieu portance is the definition of non. of this, hymns were introduced into denominational in the minds of the all chapel programs in substitution Adminieotration, and this has been for more secular songs and .all made clear by Chaplain Brown. \In progra:n:s were closed with prayers effect,\ stated Chaplain Brown, and blessings rendered by the \ 'non-denominational' at Union Chaplain with greater and greater 'college means all Christian faiths prolixity. This proving puite un- excluding Catholics.\ satisfactory to the wishes of the This, therefore, is what we must .Student Body, however, was soon clearly under&tand· for any fair remedied, and religion was rele- judgment of Sunday Chapel and gated to Wednesdays and Sundays. chapel credit: Sunday Chapel is a The Wedne~day chapels soon also Protestant service for Protestants. came to a quite similar fate in that There is nothing wrong with this w-hile the Chapel would fill to capa- ·if that is the system that the Chap- city on othet• days, Wednesdays lain and the College desire to set- would see some 200 at most strag- up. Where the error comes is that gled throughout the building. The in the past this has not been clearly tacit boycott thus being recognized understood. In aU fairness to the these chapel programs, in turn, Chaplain it should also •be remem- were themselves reformed a-nd bered that he has brought rabbis turned over to the guidance of a here in the ·past and has failed Chapel Associates Committee, which thr.ough no fault 0f his own to brought speakers to the c·hancel bring Catholic priests to the Col- hardly distinguishable from those lege pulpit. This, however, does appearing on other days of the not alter the picture, and the pro- weeli. gmms remain I:Totestant, In the meantime Sundays re- We must then aslt, if non-de- mained untouched, and two points nominational means in effect Pro- continued to be awarded to those testant, and if the attendance at ' What would happen is that a much larger percentage .of the stu- dent body would attend the base- bsU games, and this is actuaily the crux of the matter. By offering credit in Sund·ay Chapel the Ad- ftinistration feels that they can entice JO or 20 more students to Memorial Chapel at 11:00 on Sun- day. The Chaplain is still operat- ing along the same lines that he was operating along tw.o years ago, namely, the this-campus-wiH-be-l'e- Jigious\i·f-1-ha ve-to-jam-it-down-their throats philosophy. One would think that by this time it would be clear to the Ad- ministration that the undergradu- ates cannot be forced into reHgious worshipff that they can not be ca- joled and Jured into the chapel and thereby converted into a ''higher light\ of some sort. One would think that t h e Administration would realize that if a man wants to go to Scmday Chapel he will go and willingly, and that one can not cram. it down a man's throat. As one disinterested observer re- marked some time ago, the Chap- lain believes that if all the horses are not driven to water someone will die of thirst. The time has come for the aboli- tion of Sunday Chapel points, a re- form which ha;, been J.ong overdue. Then and then only will the Ad- ministration be able to say that the Chapel is open to all who wish to come and the pulpit is free for all sermons. Wally Wiggins Speaks Ou't tJpon my return to the States and specifically upon my return to Union I have been confronted with a rather serious problem. I have been forced continually to defend myself against charges ·O.f treason tto my government), superficiality, or imbo=cility. The reason fol' these accusations stems directly from the fact that I have chosen to sup- por·t Henry A. Wallace for Presi- dent in the coming November elec- tions. To me, to an increasing number of American Progressives and workers, and to the majority of thinking Europeans, Henry Wal- lace and his new party represents our strongest hope for world peace. In the two short weeks since my return fl'om Europe I have been appalled by the amount of war hysteria which seems to have permeated the thinking of most Americans. It seems in- credulous to' me that in only three years after the horrors of World War II men have once again be- gun to talk glibly, matter of fact- ly, about World War III. Perhaps we Americans forget easily. It is a little harder for the European to forget because 300 million of his children are starving as a d,irect resu'!t of the war. He is still living under deplorable emergency con- ditions because he cioes not have the wherewithall to rebuild his de- molished home. Huge piles of rub- ble and debris, monuments to the efficiency of bombs and shells long since obsolete, stand where· his schools, hospitals, and homes once stood. And lastly, there is the· probable loss of a son, daughter, or wife to help him to remember. When he sees American bombers flying iri formation overhead on a mock bombing mission over Egypt, when he hears of America's n·ew $3,000,000,000 70 air-group, and when he learns of the probable passage of a bill to send arms and FRENCH Cleaners and Dyers 129 JAY STREET • '\Reliable Service•• • Phone 6-4295 \ munitions to Western Eur-ope \to protect our enormous E.R.P. in- terests,\ he no longer wonders if we have forgotten-he knows and he is afraid. The Truman Doctrine has brought fear to the hearts of Pro, gressives all over the world. \Anti-Communistic\ is the magic word which insures the support of the American Government. Take a look at our International band- wagon. DeGaulle, DeGasperi, Greek Loyalists, Chiang Kai-shek, even little Generalissimo Franco has one foot on the running board. When we go to the polls in No- vember we are not voting for a man, we are voting for a program. A predominately Republican Con- gress has shown us its program, that of big business. The. Demo- cratic Party through Mr. Truman has shown us its program, that of preparation for war. Somehow the two have always gone hand in hand. We of Henry Wallace's New Party feel it is not necessary to choose the lesser of two -evils. We believe the American people should have the right to choose progress instead of two degre-es ·Of reaction. Our New Party· stands for that progress. We believe that UMT and war preparation must inevitably end in unnecessary war. We believ-e that a rise in wages does not necessarily mean a rise in .prices, for there is such a thing ·as a \decrease in profits.\ We are naive enough to believe that equality, regardless of race, c·olor, sex, or creed, is not only a pos- sibility but a necessity if we are to prove to the world that ours is a true Democracy. We believe in aid to starving Europe, not thorugh Wan Stveet, but through a strengthened United Nations. We believe in Price Control and real Rent Control, Social Legislation, and Federal Housing, and' Health Programs. It is true these are only beliefs, only promises. You say, \I've he,SJ.rd these election songs before.\ I agree. However, under the late President Roosevelt, we heard the same kind of songs, but we also saw the results. So- cial Security, Unemployment Insur- ance, F.H.A., Wagner Labor R<l13.- tions Act, Fa;ir Labor Standard Act, to name a few. Henry Wal- lace was a leading figure in the New Deal Administration; his work as Secretary of Agriculture and Vice P1·esident indicated that h-e was a man of action, not idle p1;omises. For .proof of his role under F.,D.R. I can only ask that you 'go back to the literature of that period, and not form y·our opinion entirely on the basis of today's Henry Luce publications, the Wall Street Journal or its team mate the Herald Tribune. It is not strange that 90% of our publica- tions whose existence depends up- on the support of big business through advertising, should de- nounce Wallace and his Third Party. In place of cold logic and sound reasoning, our opponents cry, \Red Communist!!!'' To these people I reply, \I do not believe that social and, economic justice must be accredited solely to the (Continued on Page 4) r-----------------------~ I ACME BARBER i SHOP We Need Your Head In Our Business 509 UNION STREET I A Place Where J ---~:~~~~~~-:~--- WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS For WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving .\;oi'Pens aaid the Finest Gifts I ~er State and Center Sfs. I ='

14, 1948 A. Baar up to two attend- an- Y wish to as a pad CoHege. non- credit is to ion within is a part m ot· n-ot. baseba;!l a pa:rt of redit were is that a the stu- the base- ctua11y the offering the Ad- they can tudents to on Sun- operat- that he years ago, by this the Ad- ndergradu- reHgious not be ca- chapel and a ''higher would wants he will go one can throat. re- the Chap- the horses someone the aboli- a re- overdue. the Ad- say that 1 who wish is free for election However, Roosevelt, of songs, So- Insur- R<l•a- Standard Wal- ure in the his work ulture and that he not idle his role ask that of form y-our e basis of or its team It is not ur pub!ica- up- g business de- his Third and sound cry, To these not believe justice to the 4) Head REET I I =' FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1948 Rochester Rips Union ·Here Garnet ·Nine to Face Stevens And YeHowiackets on Road LOOSE ENDS by ill' HERB SAXE The unpJ;edictable Garnet baseball squad, after losing,· their fifth game in eight starts Wednesday to the ,Univer-, l.!===========:::-::::::::=====-' .1... D t h t , · :.great deal .of future .promtse. Brad averagmg one to two tnJUries per Cindermen Face Crucial Test At RPI Tomorrow, Dutchmen ·And Engineers Both Unbeaten sity of Rochester, g..:s, at home, wiH be gunning for a win'. Yearling Runners 1 obstacle course isn't the best thing t0morrow when they travel to Hoboken, N. J., to engage the· Coach Bill Ketz's freshmen traek- ·in the world. When you consider Stev_ens Tech baseb_ allers. Hal Enstice is slated to pitch £or. ['{('~s are re11Iy shaping up. with a I that the soccer squa~ _ha~ been t1•1e U C ·Inen omonow. - ·CmyeH of Oceanside, Long Island, practice session because of spills On Road Next Week ~ :is a promising sprinter who is fea- caused by these obtacle::>, the issue Soccerites Batter The Garnet wiH ·be on .the road ·L S . 'k : tured in the 100 and· 220 yard takes on a more serioBs note. all ne:ll't week, a& Monday they will : acrossers ee. dashes. Ed LaMay from Whitehall, Still one or two mlmbers of the Ba!ll-stono. To Fa,.e Tomorrow afternoon the Garnet Track Team will face its first real test of the pl'esent season when they engage R.P.I. in a meet at Union's tn1ck. If the Dutchmen can tum back the Chel't'.}' and \Vhite, they should have little trouble in defeating Hochester and thus complete a:1 undefeated season. -----~- · -·· 1> Bill Ketz predicts that onl-y 3Jbout 6 or 8 points will separate the two teams. Although the Union Cinder- rnPn have captured three straight meets by a, lop·sided score, R. P. I. has ah'o won three consecutive fmys. The Engineers squeezed out a 64-62 decision over Colgate; they nipped Springfield 66-60; and they overwhelmed Rochester 88-42. be in Alba-ny fer a contest with the. w· F 'H 'b t . New York, is another budding Administration want to go ahead' I \'\ New Y.ork •State Teachers, and. . .In rom . 0 ar. ; .track star, whose specialty is the and build a Field House, robbing Ams' terd-m. slll.iln. Wednesday they will 'be afforded a · . • • . · ·quarter mile. ,.omc nore of the precious practice w y chance for revenge, as they play a LOSe To WdhamS In the field events, Walt Free- space available to teams. return game with Rochester away.. man, fr!'shman from Newburgh, \Ah sweet mystery .of life?\ Union has had better luck on the Coach Fred Wyatt's lacrossere New York, is the outstanding· * * * road than at home all season, and move on to Geneva, N. Y., tornor- ·.aspirant. Walt ie the most prom is- Lacrosse Crossed they have racked up all three of row to meet the Statesmen fl'om · ing javelin thrower to grace the There ,;•cems to be a definite feel- their wins away. Hobart College in an attempt to. Union scene for rr:.any a moon. The ing of emnity on the part of the Witl1 Phil McQuade doing his atone for the 10-6 setback suffered frosh \splinter tosser\ has already \ncggin-knockers\ for theit' mentor. best for the Ga·rnet ·on the mound at the hands of the Orange last' ·pasecd the 165 foot ma1·k with his 1t seems that Mr. Wyatt ran the and at bat, the Dutchmen, ham- eeason. The Hobart stickrnen are · throws, to better the varsity marl1, boys through a rather rigor.ous pered by the loss of their best celebrating their golden anniver- in the same event by quite a few workout last Tuesday afternoon hitter, AI Wade, due to a leg in- sary on the field this year, and' a lnehes. previous to Wedn!'!\day's contest jury, lost to Rochester Wednesday wi·n tomorrow would well add to * with the Ephmen at Williams Col- by an 8~3 score on Alexander Field. their not too poor record to date. Th~se Wide Open Spaces lege and the squad members feel For the first three innings of the The Dutchmen will likewise be all The acute shortage of practice that the pt·evious day ·Of exhausting contest it looked as though the out to slip back into the win space for Union's athletic teams is practice had much to do with the fans were in for a pitchers' duel column after dropping a 12-6 de- being sharply felt in all quarters, poor showing made by the Dutch- between McQuade and big Carl cision to the Purple from Wmiams and especially in the soccer corner. men against their opponents. W·ren .of Rochester. In the fourt'h last Wednesday. The Gleich-coaG!hed \boaters\ are Fred was a little upset by the inning, however, Rochester man-. On Monday, May 17th, the strong forced to practice on the under- poor showing for practice on Man- aged to put acroes two runs on a. u. of Virginia will invade Library sized chapel lawn. If it were only day afternoon, as a result the hays single, a walk, and an error by the Field to do battle with the locals. that the field were too small .for feel he tool' it out on them Tues- Union left fielder that allowed the The .southerners have fielded an effective practice sessions, things day afternoon. runs to scm·e. This unnerved Me- exceptionally strong team· this sea- might not be too bad. Unfmtun- It would almo.,t seem as though _Quade, who had pitched brilliantly son and will be a tough nut for ately the soccer squad has to com- Mr. Wyatt had cut off his nose to up to this point, and in the fifth· the Garnet to crack. Face off time pete wLth cement sidewalks and spite his face. and sixth innings the Yellow will be at 2:30 p.m. manhole covers. There is just a In any event the 12-6 score was Jackets pushed across six runs on possibility that practice on an definitely of a purple hue. a barrage of hits, although they Pw·ple PCirVades were aided by two more Union errors in the field. Last• Wednesday, the Dutch=en· In the home half of the fifth moved to Williamstown, Mass., to .inning McQuade tried his best to meet the Williams College \noggin- keep his team in the ball game by knockers.\ It was the Ephmeil's smashing out a triple to score Paul day as the 12-6 final tally would Hochuli, but his efforts were to l).O indicate, but only after an agg-res- avail. sive, hard fought contest was the Union had a short live-d rally outcome decided. The Williams going in the eighth inning, and squad has acquired a most favor- managed to S!:!Ore twice before the able record toO date with seven wins threat was cut .off.. Carl Armstrong for two losses. Meryman was high and Joe Young scored 0n a single scorer for the Purple 'With 4 by Truman Rice and a Ro~hester counters while Oudin sank 3 tallies ermr, which allowed Ensbce to for runnerup honore. Barry sank reach first base. two for the Garnet, while Markes, The outstanding fielding play of Quinlan, Kaslanskas and Foresta the game wae made by Union short- each secured .one tally. Outstand- stop, Bob Bartlett, who speared a. ing field work was turned in by sure Rochester single one handed defenE'eman Phil Brady and mid- in the seventh inning. fielder Whitey Markes. Golfers Hit Win Collllmn After Third· Start The Union golfers finally. ~rack~d • and Behan and McCoy 'pl~s Fro9t the win col~mn with a dectslve WI~ and Capen garnered the last two. over a mediOcre Albany team. !'~ay Coach Bob Cox was pleased to see ing on t~e Albany MumC1pal the boys start shining before the course, wh1ch resembles B; small nineteenth where they have pla:yed model of the Rocky Mountame, the their be-st in previous matches. hackers were in trouble at the turn, but they began to get the feel of the slopes on the back nine and wrapped the match up handily, six and one-half to two and a. half. In the individual xp.atches Bas- kous, Behan, Frost anti Capen had. wins for four points, while Baskous and Swan teamed up f.or a split GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 246 STATE ST.-Bince 1898 FERRO_.S RESTAURANT ... Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 111.5 IARRE.TT STREIIfiT No~iner Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) FOR ALL YOUR • GIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since l9Jl ~AJ\\R1 ~~\)\\~ Q\\\\~ JAYST.JlWll[fS II 166 Jay Street .11 SERVING UNION'S MEII FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on tha Campus for Complete Heacl to F.oot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 ST~TE Near FERRY Hiram J. McKai11 Co. 306 Union Street Phone 4·4448 lawn Seeds Insecticides Fertilizers Intramural Softball And Track •• o Softball Standings National League Won Lost Kappa Nu ........ 2 0 Kappa Sigma . . . . . . 2 0 Alpha Delta Phi . . 1 1 Beta Theta Pi .... 1 2 A. S.C. E ......... 1 2 Ramblers . . . . . . . . . 0 2 United League Won Lost Phi Gamma Delta . 2 0 Delta Upsilon .... 2 1 Phi Sigma Delta .. 2 1 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . 1 1 Night Owls ...... 0 2 Beach Combers ... 0 2 American League Won Lost Phi Delta Theta . . 3 0 Chi Psi ............ 2 0 Phi Sigma Kappa . 1 0 lndians ............ 1 2 Rebels ............ 0 2 Beta Eta Upsilon . . 0 3 Eastern League Won Lost Snerzigs . . . . . . . . . . . 2 0 Delta Phi . . . . . . . . 2 1 ~ARROW ,. '' ( ) Pet. 1.000 1.000 .500 .333 .333 .000 Pet. 1.000 .667 .667 .500 .000 .000 Pet, 1.000 1.000 1.000 . 333 .000 . 000 Black Fleet . . . . . . 1 1 Daffodils .......... 0 1 Psi Upsilon . . . . . . . 0 2 Western League Won Lost Calverts . . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 Kappa Alpha ...... 1 1 Delta Chi . . . . . . . . . 1~ 1 Theta Delta Chi . . 0 1 Sigma Phi 0 2 Track Rules: .500 .ooo .000 Pet. 1.000 .500 .500 .000 .000 1. Six or m-ore men must com- pete to. gain entrance points. 2. A man may compete only in two field events and one track event or two track events and one field event. 3. No spike shoes are to be worn. 4. No member of the varsity track or baseball teams is to com- pete . 5. Entries will be taken on the track . 6. Events will begin at 4:30 Pet. p.m, 1.000 7. Four places will be awarded . 667 in each event. ,, SHIRTS white $J striped $J65 ARROW \GUARDS'' 95e Drop in today and see our fine spring assortment of famous Arrow T shirts, basque shirts, and underwear, N\u· S B A U M ' S ---FOR ARROW 11 T 11 SHIRTS-----~ The varsity soccer team has been pr·acticing regularly on the chapel . field in as spirited scrimmages as the field conditior.s will per·mit. To date this spring they havE' !lad three pr·actice games in prepara- tion for their first season in i-nter- collegiate competition next fall. In their· first match with the Mayfield town team, the Gleich coached ag- gregation wound up with a 2-2 tie. The next game was 0ne of \those days\ with a 5-1 loss for the Gar- net. Last Sunday, however, they won ft·om Ballston Spa in an im- pressive 6-2 game. This b1·ings their statistical scoreboard, includ- ing the games played last fall as the \Collegians to four wins, two ties, and three losses. In points, the Gat'net has scored 28 goals against 21 for the opposition. Next Sunday afternoon, the var- sity will play the Bigelow San- fords of Amsterdam at Central Park. A return match is penc!ing for May 23 with Ballston Spa in an away scrap. Next fall, the Freshmen on the soccer squad will play in the New The Dutchmen will enter almost thP !HmP team that they used in the previous meet. One change will be Fred Oyer, who has been side- lined thus far this season, com- peting in the pole vault. RPI's con- dstent winners at·e Bundschuh and Bray. Bundschuh will run the 100 yard, 220 ynrd, and the 440 yard events. while Bmy will compete in the high hurdles, low hurdles, and broadjump. IC4A Meet Saturday, May 22, is the date of the IS4A tournament in which Union expects to have four en- trants. Bill Ketz said that although Culver, Wright, M i I\f or d, and Whalen have been entered, they meet certain <>tandards. He said that: Culver must break 2 minutes in the •,:, mile; Wright's time will have to be better than 4:30 f.or the mile; Milford must be able to clear 12' 6\ in the pole vault; and Whalen will have to be able to heave the shotput ave~ 49 feet. 0--- York Central Soccer League as N t G t 4th w· the Collegians in order to gain ex- e men e 10 perience for the varsity squad com- By defeating Albany State petition in their Sophomore year. Teacher's College on Wednesday Rumpf in center half played ex- to the tune of 8-1, Union's tennis ceptionally well in the Mayfield and team extended its string to f.our BaHston Spa mat!:!hes. DeLorenzo, straight victories. George Witkowski, and Hopkins The trip to Albany was the first (Captain), are among other stand- away meet of the year. Bert Kus- outs whose real enthusiasm for serow, playing in the number one the game made soccer at Union a spot, played a very fine game reality. aga.inst Fran Mullin of State, de- The first Union intercollegiate feating him 8-6, 7-6 in a closely soccer schedule: foughtmatch, to maintain his un- October 2-Williams, here. defeated reeord. October 15-RPI, away. The tennis _squad will have a October 20-Champlain, away. rathe1• busy time of it next week, October 27-Syracuse, here. playing Monday, Wednesday, Fri- November 6-RPI, here. day and Saturday. The only home November 13-Champlain, here. game of the week will be a return II\II\'VVUIIniiiiiUIIUJII~IUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUiliiiUIIIliiUIIIIIIUUIUIIliiUIIIIIUlllllllll/lllfiiUIIIfllllllll:UlilliUIIIIIn.,lllll IIJIIIIlHJnllliiiiiiHIIII .. lllliiiiiiUIIU~UII!II:IIIIUUILUIIo,m\'\''''\\'\\ •·••• \'\'''''\'''\'''\'\'''llmllllo•uil' Final tests for Sponior Red Cross Life-Saving a1·e to be held Monday, May 17, 4:30p.m., Foote ' M('mo:t:'ial Pool. 0 AII.l!HnUI:Utlllllllllliii11!11111UIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIII11111111111Ul!lllllllllllliDIIIII!I!r:cll!llllllll•lmU11111111111111JJI!IIIliWll i!la1iiWhiiiiiiiUW/1181tiiiHJin:llanlh1111MI!!11\IIIIIII!IIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUnlllllfUllillllllllll1111111111llftllal• match with State on Monday. On Wednesday the team goes to Mid- dlebury for another match with that school. On Friday, the trip is to Tr·oy, for a second match with RPI, and on Sunday the team goes to the courts of the Edison Club for a match with the Schenec- tadians . ARROW CAN REALLY A \f\ I SHIRT. PIT YOU TO Indeed, yes I Our punning may he poor, hut our T shirts and basque shirts are well•nigh perfect for golf, tennis, and beach wear, Fine, full-combed cotton T shirts from $1. Basque shirts in solid colors and stripes from $1.25. ARROW SHIRTS and TIES »» UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS \

'. '· ~· FRIDAY, M~Y 1~. 19.48 Faculty Changes A VC Hears Talk On Civil Rights Alumni Poll OK 's Wally Wiggins what I came to see with my owil politicians. We are neo.phytes in eyes. Russia and: the peopl-es of this game of politics, but what we the Balkans have chosen a defini\ lack in money .and experience we tion of Democracy, alien, not neces-· make up for in sincerity, work, sarily opposed, to our own. I .shall and spirit. AH we aslc is a voice not defend that choice, but there and a chance to confiJ.'m our belief are millions who will. in the Integrity of the American ( ContinuPtl from Page 1) Skidmore'; that M1·. Arthm: Phillips lC'aYes to nccf>pl a position in Eng- lish at thP Uni\·pr~itv of Miami. Florida; ann that ·Mr. GP~rge DPul lravPs to a<'rept n .position with the United States Geological Survey. Two n<.'w appointments have been mace in the Economics de- partment: Mr. George Bishop as Assistant ProfE>ss0r and Mr. Joseph Llppnmn as Tn;;tructor in Ac- eoun tin fT. In Philo~oplw. to take> m·pr Pro- fessor Phil Stanley's work during his sabbatiC'al lf'avP. the collegE' hrrs sPcurPd as a T.PcturPr Mr. Samuel St.mttnn who romPs from SPVeral VPRI'l' with the Fnr Eastern Commis.sion in \Vashington, D. C. In English. Mr. Frank Tlwne, Un•ion graduate who taught' in 1946--17 and l1~s bPPn at Rutgf'rs this \\P'll' rPturns fl>' ln~tniC'tnr. ThP Hi•torv dPpnrtnwnt will open up a nPw field next fall. Fnr Eastern Histrn·. with thr appoint- mont af' Tn~trur-tnr rf Mr. Jamr~ \V. MorlP\' nnw \tu<l\\in~:; at Cnlum- hin. for hls Ph n. T·.ntin .\mHic>an Riston\. whi<'h was introducPd in 194fl, will he> renPWl'<l bv Dt·. Wil- liam R. Bristol now (Pachin~:; at Prinrpton. who <'nmp;: ns nn As- sistant PrrfPssor. In Chembtry, Dr. Jl'JnlHin D. Porter com<'~ as Assi~tant Pro- fes>'or Dr Portrr wns nn instruc- tor in thP Tlninn <'!Pplntment 1$137- 1941 and comes ba<>k fl·om the rhairmnnship of tfw dPp·trfnl('nt at '\\P::ok C'o]:t>~~(', 7\T·l,·nn (jpc•tt~in. Tn 11i··l<>>.:l. :\Tt n .. h .. r~ T<'tT\\ comes as an Assi~tn.nt Professoi·. In Mnthrmat irs. onP of thP June. lg4R. Pn~inPrrin~ ~.;rnduates. ::\Tr. Ed,Yard Ctaig-, rrturrs ns nn ln- stntctor. Arlditinn:ll appointments in Physics include: ::O.!r. g,,j Nur'el- ma n who ha,.; hN·n lP:whin~.; :ll Tn· diann Uni\'Pr\it\' ard :\!r. James Nirol, B.S. St. ;\ndl\f'Wi' Scotland. both a;; In;; !I uctcws. In the· Library. :\Tr. nirhard Andpr:;:; r!lmrs <1!-' a flpff>rPnrr A~­ <ist nnt. ThP n.ppointmf'r.t of Dr. Frn.nk Albright ns A\'btnnt Pt o- f,'ssor of AI t an<l C'Jn.,,ics to t·<>now ihP worJ( in nt t hi~tnt·v nne! np· JlFPC'iatinn. ''\~\' n:n(h\ P\di0r. Thr prrsidl'nt's nffir'<' :1 ],,o nn· /.1 lllht•d l;1<1t ull.t l ~ti•J•ul!ttlll.t.·Hb will h•· mnd· puhlic a~ tl.H·Y n1c made. NOTT REST AU RANT and BAR • RigH Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William H. Plath 60 I Union Street AUTO SERVICE GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. BarreH St. MILK Vifamin D Homogenilled Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 CivB Rights was the subject of a talk given before a recent Ameri- can Veterans Committee meeting by Rev. Robert .S. Hoagland of the Unitarian Church of Schenectady. The meeting, attended by AVC members and other interested· parties, was held in the English Reading Room. During a discussion of the Mundt Bill, an anti-communistic measure· now under consideration in Con- grPS>'. it was pointed out by Rev. Hongland that the cla:uses of the bill wei c so vague as- to make liable for fine and imprisonment any liberal or liberal group, and to ma.ke liable for dismissal from gov- emment service any man at the discretion of his superior. These ,·IYargcs \\OUld not have to be sub- stantiated. The 11undt BHI itself, should be 1 rgarded, according to Rev. Hoag- land, as only one phase of a grow- i-ng tendency to restrict Civil Rights by Loynlt Trial::!, and by the di~charging of gov<>rnment em- ployees in rr.any cases, on ground& of suspicion and faulty OI' biased Jn\'t\stigations. Thi nwrt ing wn>' the first of a series of informative talks on Civil Rights, aimed at correcting exist- ing :t·bUst·s, spono•ored by the A VC. The >'C'I iPs, unless more pres>'ing i~sue~ ari>'P, will bf' continued in th fall. Marshall Plan Overwhelmin.g bi-pat·tisan sup- port of the Marshal'l plan for aid to Europe characteriz-es the poli-· tical thinking of Union College alumni, according to results of a mail p0H completed this week by· the Graduate Council. · Seventy-eight percent of those polled favored the Marshall Plan,· 11 percent were against it and 11 percent were neutral. Summaries based on the 2600 re- plies received from the postcard query sent to 7800 former students sh0w a high degree of political participation among Union Gradu- ates. ' About 71 percent of ·those reply- ing are registered Republican, 14 percent are Democrats, and 15 per• cent are independents or members of other parties. Although replies were anonymous, not a single re- ply stated membership in the Com- ~~nist party. According to the poll more Re- publicans think that the ,Democrats will nominate Truman than do Democrats. Surprising strength for Vandenberg is shown in the poll While 42 percent of the Re-. publicans and 17 percent of the Democrats predict Dewey's nom- ination by the Republican party, 15 percent of the Republicans and 11 percent of th~ Democrats prer- dict Vandenburg's election. COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 SCHENECTADY. N.Y. 147 JAY STREET Scotia KEEP FUN GOING PAUSE FOR COKE BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA COLA BOTTLING CO. © 1948, Tho Coca-Cola Company (Continued from Page 2) Communists.\ It would have been· \smart politics\ to. have denounced the Commun·lsts at the •Outset of our Third Pfrl>ty, after all, a few thousand American Communist. votes are not going to put anyone in The White House. Unfortunate- ly, (from a political standpoint,). we chose to uphold one of the fundamentals of our Democracy, the freedom of thought and ex- pression. · W·e may say that our Interna-. peaple. tional Policy is based upon fear Wally Wiggins, May 11, 194B. When I was aslced to wr-ite this· article it was suggested that my topic be \What I have gained politicaliy rrom my year in Europe.\ I sincerely believe my support of Henry Wallace and his New Party is ample evidence of my gain. For nine months I lived and worked with students from Switzerland, Egypt, Italy, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vackia, Iran, Palestine, France and England. For several months I fought to uph·old certain stereo- typed be.Jiefs gleaned from , the American .press. I fought a l0sing baUle, because I could not deny II THERE'S of Russian aggression. We seem to forget that it is they who lost 20,000,000 men in the last wa:r; it rs we who are the possessors of the Atom•ic bomb, and it ·is we who have sent arms and troops to Greece, not they who have sent arms a:nd troops to Mexico. Who should fear whom? If their philosophy of govern- ment is w1•ong, let us prove it with deeds on the social a:nd economic: front, not with Atomic bombs ·On the battle front. If any of what 'I ha:ve said makes· a partide of sense to you,· all I ask is that you give us a chance· to be heard. We.. don't have the backing of the radio ·and press be- cause we are :opposed· to the pow- · ers behind these forces. 98% of us .Jn the Third Party movement a·re volunteers because we don't have the money to pay professional NO FINER CIGARETTE THAN CHESTERFIELD. A COLUMBIA PRODUCTION WHY. .. I smoke Chesterlield ( FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) I have done business with Liggett & Myers for over 40 years. They buy the best crops in the house at the auctions. ~ am exclusively a Chesterfield smoker. I thznk they are the best cigarette made. ' . ~ 9i}c;lJ~· . TOaACCO FARMER, NICHOLASVILLE, KY. Wiggins has just I'eturned from a year's studying in Etu:ope.... -(Ed. NQte) FOR S.A l.E 1935 FORD TUDOR 5 Tires · Heater Fairly Good> Shape $250 Cash ROGER WILLIAMS Delta Chi House, 1227 Weldell Avenue PHON§: 2·4614

., 19.48 -.----- ytes in rhat we :nee we , work, a voice .r belief nerican ;ins, 8. 1d fl'OIU pe.... I. Note) 5 ue • • trnsts Founded at Union College in 1877 Vc>l~ 70, No. 27 SCHENECT.i\PY, N. Y., FRIDAY, MAY 21, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS . No' Points; Chapel Packed Poll Shows Majority Favors Extension of Building Plans Commencement Plans Listed For Weekend An overwhelming majority of students and faculty polled earlier this week favor re-examination of present plans for a fund campaign for construction r of a field house. · Of 543 students who responded in the poll, conducted by the student council, 426 favored a broader building campaign than the one to which the college has been committeed. John Foster Du-lles, one of the foremost figures in the Eighty-one students backed the present program. field of international law, has beeB named Honorary Chan• - <So Faculty Too cellor for the next year. He has been mentioned very fre- CJ k H d The faculty voted 69 to one for quently as a likely Secretary of State should either Vanden- ar to . ea the wider building dzive. berg or Dewey be elected next fall. Results of the poll will be pre- Photo by Schwartz At present he is a member of the 1$>--------------- United Nations delegation. The an- nouncement of his appointment Yearly Speaker sented at a meeting of the graduate Coll.ege Atom council thjs weekend, it was under- The Union College Dance Band presenting their first concert, ~'Pastel :Shades,\ in Memorial Chapel Wednesday evening. At the right is Art Agnello and his trombone, in the center is Marion Maul and her black gown. The gentleman wrapped in the American flag is BI•nce Wallace. · · came from the President's office early in the week. He wili deliver the main address at commence- stood last night. With feeling in- creasing for a broad building drive with a possible goal of three to . Re 8 earch five million dollars. the graduate council would have to recommend to the trustees of the college that ment and receive the h.onorary de- Agnello Aces Win Over Full House gree of Doctor of Civil Laws. In connection with plans being laid for the graduation weekend, John M. Newton, Jr., Senior Class President has announced the Class Day appointments and Dean Hunt- ley· has released the names of those who will receive stage appoint- ments for the graduation. Wednesday evening, before approximately nine hundred Union students and Schenectady townspeople, the Union Col- lege dance band, under the direction of Art Agnello, staged their firs_t annual Philharmonic Jazz Concert, . \Pastel Shades.\ A responsive audience, a carefully selected pro- gram, and the special arrangements lent a professional flavor Seniors Honored In recognition Of outstanding Slcholarship throughout four years at Union, t'he following named men have been given stage appoint\ ments. The valedictorian, Donald to this new innovation in chapel concerts. - ~----------- Big Crowd, No Points Presented without the lure of Unt·on· ·Takes chapel points and open to all lovers · . · · R. White, has made one of the best records of any science $tudent in the past several years, winding up with a perfect 5.0 average as a Bachelor -of Science in Physics. Others named by the Dean's Of- fice include: Edward V. Chmielew- ski, Edward J. Craig, Charles F. Crampton, Irving Horowitz, Robert F. Risley, Ivan H. Scheier, Albert J. Taggi, Jack C. Tway, Robert N. Wilson and Leslit M. Zatz. Three students from the above group will be chosen to compete f.or the Blatchford Oratorical Prizes. The prizes, two gold medals, are award- ed for the two best orations given at Commencement. of Modern .Music, the concert was a success and is a credit to the men. 'E' I. s· t ·-e d d f o. d in the band and their leaders who· have continued to operate, even after the setbacks sustained earlier in the year. The pro-gram opened· with the theme \Blue Surreal\ com- posed and tarranged by Emil Fluff, one of Agnello's colleagues- in Rochester. It was one -of the most effective numbers on the program and smacked of the progressive tendencies exemplified by Stan Kenton. A feature of the concert and a sparkplug of the band was Miss J)1Iarion Maul, the vocalist. Miss Maul; singing with clearness and a great deal of feeling, displayed the p.oise and stage presence that one rarely finds in a group of this type. Attired in a striking black gown, she held the audience in her hand e-n \Love Me\ and Blue Moon.\ \Nature Boy,'' an effective short interpretation of a popular favorite featured leader AgnelLo in a trom- bone solo. \Blue Moon\ appeared a little blurred, b].lt the Glenn Miller sax vo-icing in the \Medley\ was well played and tasty. \Water- front\ and · \Love Me\ displayed good technique and highlighted the complicated arranging which spark- ed the entire program. The Union College Glee club won top honors for male college glee clubs in the 91st annual Utica Eisteddfod held Saturday - under the auspines of the St,. David's so- ciety of u~·ca. The Union Glee Cl\lb, with 36 voices, won ·a silver ·cup and $300 for first prize in singing -the com- petition selections \Landsighting.\ by Grieg, \Welch Choral,\ by Reese, and tbe 'Union college alma mater. TidltlArsh Directs At the traditional ivy planting, the speaker will be the Ivy Orator Dr. Elmer A. Tid~arsh, direc- AI Hill. The class will then pro- tor- of music, led the Union col\ ceed to Jackson's Garden under the lege Club. Richard E. Bennett of dii'eGtion of the Class Marshal Mayfield was the accompanist. Robert Bartlett, where President Frederick Conklin of ~Iizabeth, Davidson will aay a few words to N. J., was the baritone soloist in the graduating class. In the Garden \Welsh Choral\ and \Landsight- exercises the Class Historian Orazio il)g! Ottaviano will present a compre- Union college also won honors hensive study of the outstanding In the challenge solo competition,, events in the college life of the with the cont-estants singing selec- grf!duates. The Class Prophet Ivan lions from opera or oratorio. Scheier will attempt to prognosti- Conklin won first prl?e, singing cate the future for the members of ··o. God Have Mercy,\ by Men- t}).e class. The Class Poet Silas de'lssohn, and Winthrop Stone,. ~teinhart will be responsible for the tenor, of Pittsburgh, Pa., placed class doings in verse and the vocal third singing \In Native Worth,\ renditi-ons wiii be in charge of the 'by Hayden. Class Song Leader, Rick Raymond. John Foster Dulles Scouts Form Fraterni~y Reversing its previous deci&ion the Committee on Student Affairs and Relations has approved the application of the Scouters Service Group to form a chapter of the Alpha Phi Omega National Service Fraternity .on the Union College Campus. Recently electer officers are: Peter Kelly, president; Gene Girard, first vice-president; Andy De Hont, second vice-president; Francis Mer- rill, secretary-treasurer, aud John Miller, historian. Committee chair- men appointed are: William De- Lorenzo, Arthur Swenson, James La Forest and Richard Tho1•n. Plans of the group call for a membership of about 250 students who .are to represent a cross sec- tion of the student body. Projects now being undertaken include maintenance of Dewey Hall and the College Flag and a Christmas party f.or underprivileged children. The men are also anxious to see Dutch- man's Village cleaned up. a capital drive be undertaken in order to extend the present plan. Fred Wyatt, graduate council Study of the biological effects of high-energy radiations, such as hundred million-volt x-ray, will be secretary, questioned last night on undertaken by Union College in a his views toward a capital drive, research project financed by the said; \I feel that with so much Atomic Energy Commission for the· money around, a capital drive Office of Naval Research. would be a wise thing at this time.\ Th~ scientific wo'rk, which will be directi'ld by Dr. Leonard B. Clark, Chairman of the Union Col- lege department of biology, is ex- pected to start this summer. The General Electric Company will contribute by making available at its own expense certain re- sources of its research laboratory, including use of the 135-ton be- tatron for producing x-rays up to 100,000,000 volts, which will be used to radi-ate the biological specimens. The contract with the Office of Naval Research calls for three main main subjects of investiga- tion. First is the study of the rela- tions between bi-ological effects and the wavelengths of x-rays from one million to one hundred million volts. It is known that the wave- lengths of ultraviolet radiation vary in their biological effectiveness, as in preventing rickets. It may be that x-rays from a million to a hundred million volts may show similar variations in biological ef- fectiveness. The second topic assigned is the study of the depth-dose effect of such x-rays in tissues or tissue-like masses of living organisms, as blocks of compressed· yeast cells. It is known for example that the greater the energy of the x-rays, the smaller is the proportion o·f rays scattered at the surface and the larger the percentage that pene- trate deeply Into the body. This brings abou a difference in the effects produced at different levels within the tissue, and the distri- bution of this effect should be known. · · The third principal subject con- cerns a study of the correlation of different particular physiological processes in the same living cells One s-tudent who answered his questionnaire in favor of the present field house commented that \rather than spend $3 to $5 million dollars on a field house, I am of the opinion that such a sum, or rather a fractional pa1·t of it, would be put to better employment if spent on athletic scholarships. A fancy field houoo in itself, would not pro- duce athletes. We must first get the men to come to Union. In the light of the present world situai-on such a sum spent on a war me- morial would seem a little ill-con- sidered.\ Several ot'her commenters claimed that building projects other than a field house may be of a greater priority at this time; while one or two men seemed to feel that a capital fund drive of three to five million ·dollars was too excessive. One student who failed to cast a vote for any of the alternatives ex- pressed his concern with the lack of information on hand and stated \Let's have more orientation so that people will know what thi13 is to include to better judge the is- sue.\ ---0·--~ Seek Accord in Delta Chi Fray Lifted word for word from Schenectady Gazette Attorneys for the city and Delta Chi fraternity conferred several hours ye!';tE>rdav in an effort to rPHch ~omplPte' agr!'E>ment on the fHct~ Rli!Tatmding thl' fraternity's occupanqy of the residence at 1227 Wendell avenue and the city's ef- forts to have it evicted. On \The Man· I Love\ Miss Maul really brought down the house with a skillful straight presentation in front of a complicated band back- ground. \Torch Song\ and \Moonstruck original compositions by Charles DeMatteo, were a credit to the com- poser and the arranger, Fred Pratt. Fred Cure, Larry Gray, Cliff Casy Student Council Puts Foot Down, \They Shall Not Pass\; Interfraternity Council Meets, Votes Dow11 Co-Ed Club Kelsie E. Mead, corporation coun- sel, said after the meeting it IS probable agreement can be reached on all the facts. Mead said the city attorneys will draft a proposed stipulation of facts to be submitted to the court and if counsel for the fraternity and the home owners concur a further meeting will not be necessary. The agreement on the facts to be set before Supreme Court Justice ·willard L. Best is being sought to expedite final decision in the case by several months. and Ken MacDonald supplied the The student council called Tues- inf'truinental solos throughout the day night for abolition of chapel evening along with leader Agnel!o. credits for attendance at Sunday Cure's interpretation of \Stardust\ chapel services. The stand, in the was given a burst of spo-ntaneous form of a r.ecOommendation to the applause at its conclusion, and was. administration, was taken as a re- well~handled and expertly played. sillt -of the protest wallwut of some \Sittin' and a Rockin'\ with its half dozen etudents during a chapel unorthodox flatted fifth ending, was flermon, Sunday, May 2~ followed by t'he theme, \Blue Sur- A seven to seven split on the real.\ Some flaws were in evi- issue was broken by David Killian, dence; Agnello spent a little too who favored abolition of the much time in his comme~tary be- credits. Sensitivity to administra- tween numbers, and tlie band tibn op1mon was admitted by showed a. slight lack of stage Joseph Mendelson, council member, presence. However, Wednesday who suggested caution in recom- night's performance was one o·f the mending changes in rules which best-attended, , point-free events might meet with official disap- ever given on the campus, and proval. OpiJC~e Thruway should be the beginning of a series that should help entertain and im- press modern music lovers on the caJirpus and in the city. With almost no opposition, .the cou11cil went on record as opposing the plai)S of the State of New York a·nd the City of Schenectady to run~ In its first meeting under the new a spur of the new arterial thruway regime headed by Walt Doran of through the corner of Union Col- De 1 t a Phi t'he Interfraternity lege campus where the Blue -gate ' now stands. That corner of the Council voted not to permit the campus would be clipped off to , present new local fraternity, Beta c'hannel traffic from Nott Terace I Eta Upsilon,· to affiliate with a to Seward Place, proposed route of national organization. This action the spur. . J went directly against the Student Whije paying lip service to the 1 Council who, on the same evening, need for better public relations, voted to 1lllow BEU to hook up members of the council objected to with a national if they desil•ed. the new highway because, as one The council also chose commit- member put it, \We don't want a tees for the next year: Constitu- lot of tourists gawking at us.\ tiona! (to rewrite the constitution) .Another member of the council Fat McGivern; Judicial, Stu Me- remarked privately after the meet- Cleary; Publicity, Rudzik; Publica- ing, \I think we shouldn't oppose Uons, Stewart; Rushing, George; the plan. If the college ever gets Social, Hartnett, and Planning, t'he its new dormitory built in the heads of all committees and Doran. Pasture, fres'hmen cau step out of The matter of the BEUpsi's was their front door and hitch a ride referred to the Committee on Stu- directly to Skidmore.'' dent Affairs and Relations for final decision. That committee after a meeting yesterday, decided to take up the matter sometime before ex- amination time. It did, however, refuse permission for Delta Phi Alapha, a national honorary Ger- man Club, to come on campus while giving permission for the local scouters group to affiliate with Alpha Phi Omega, a national. The council could not quite un- derstand how the BEUpsi's ex- pected to join a co-educational or- ganization, as the national they wish to affiliate with is, on a strictly male campus. This among other things influenced the coun- cil's decision. The council also decided to put out a handbook for freshmen next year to give them the full word on what the fraternity system was like at Union. It wotild obviate the necessity of a court trial to prove facts sur- rounding the situation and would ·leave Justice Best to determine the issue on the law involved. This legal affray has resulted from: the city's efforts to oust the fraternity from the Wendell avenue home on the ground it is occupying it in violation of the city zoning ordinance. ---o--- N a me Editor Malcolm Hopkins resigned as editor of the Garnet yesterday afternoon at a meting -of the pub- lications board. David Martin, an associate editor, was elected to fill the post.

2 I ._, 'i ; ). i ,· !· ! .• 1:. ainntnr Member Associated Col· !egiata Press and distri- butor of the Cullc•giate Digest. National Adver- tising Representative: ;\;a- tiona:! Advertising Service, •Inc., College Publisher~ Representative, 420 Madi- son Ave., N. Y. C. Pub· lished every Friday of the school year. Edi tol'ial Office, Wu~hbtn·n Hall, Union College. l'ub- lkation Offi<'e, The <la- Zclte Press, 331 State St. l...:ntered in the Schenet·- tady Post Office as Sl·c- ond ·Class Mail l\1o.ttcr, subscl'iptlon lOc a copy; $3 year; delivered any- where in the Cnitetl States. JL\C'i.\GING BOARD George T. Orick ................................ Eolitor Albert Corbo .................... , ... ~Innaglug· Ed !tor JllJlles l\Iurruy ........................... :-<ows Editor James llu.ar .......................... A¥udnte Etlitor Herbert Su.xe ........................... SttOrt~ Editor :Francis llet>ltlllt ...... . 'CJrf':U}U tion :\I UIHlt.r£'r Lambt'rt G-insberg· . H ll\'ill fl'IO<.; )I UlUlg't'l' Two Lessons \Vednesday night saw an odd situation or: this campus. The chapel was more than. half filled fifteen minutes befo1·e the program started, no points were given for att~ndance, it was in the middle of the week, It lasted until ten o'clock, there were no crossword puzzles or textbooks in sight and not a person left until it was over. And even then they asked for more. . Possibly this is a demonstratiOn of the worthy and enjoyable chapel progmms \\'e have all been asking for, saying that it w~uld bring us to chapel regardless of compulswn. Possibly it was a good adve1·tising and pub- licity campaign that put it across. Possiblf· students are willing to come to a good musi- cal or humor program where they would balk at drv lectul·es and recitals. At an~· rate, Wednesday night's concert was crowded by an attentive audience enjoying an hour and a half of fine, if unorthodox, music. Art Agnello and his boys cannot be con- gratulated too highly for their fine woi·k Wednesday and for their continuous and grueling· rehearsal sessions in which Art cracked a whip and the boys jumped to his tune. This experience ,,.ill undoubtedly help those of the group who intend to follow music as a career, it will also give invaluable experience in cooperatian to all of the men in the band. It is a pleasure to see some who realize that, even though they may be fun, extra activities are excellent training fot· that section of the countr~· known as the cold, cold, \Vorld-outside of these easy, ivy cov- ered walls. Two lessons can be leamed from Wednes- day night's performance, one, that it does not take chapel credits and the unfailing whip of the dean's office to bring us inside of the chapel, and two, that cooperation can be an easier and nice!' way to get through this wol'ld than to fol-low the present Yogue of \I'll take what I can get and the Devil take the hindmost.\ Make-up Exam Schedule Monday, May 24-11 a.m. Mechs. of Mats. 20b, C.E. 107; 1:30 P.M. Latin lb, B.H. 300; English lOb, B.H. 107; History 1b, 27b, 32b, B.H. 201; Eco 38b, 45a, B.H. 300; Chern lb. llb, 12b, 23b. C.L. 104; Math lla, 21h, 3lb, C.E. 210; 2:30 P.M. Psych lla, Psych Lab 102; 3:30 P.M. History 33b, B.H. 201 4:30 P.M. !\1ath la, lb, 2b, llb, C.E. 207; Physics 4b, 14b, 23b, 3lb, P.L. 105; Law la, Highways and Airports, C E. 201; E.E. 13, 15, 29, 30. E.E. 14; Tuesday, May 25-9 A.M. Geology lb, 21b, G. L. 24; 1:30 P.M. American Civ lb, B. H. 101; German lb. Spani~h lb, L.B. 2· Eco llb, 37b, 39b, 43b. B.H. 204; Gov 12a, 12b, B H. 109; Bio llb, B.L. 203; Math lib. C.E. 207; Mech llb, C.E. 107; 3:30 P.M. Spanish 2b. L.B. 2; Gov 44b. B.H. 108; 4:30 J>.M. Hist 16b, B.H. 201; !\iech 1lb. C. E. 110; E.E. 29, E.E. 14 Wed!lf'sday, May 26-4:30 P.M. Heat Engines. Heat Engines Lab. STUDENT~ ~HOULD PRESENT SLIPS WITH SIGNATURE OF DEAN. Letters Edit01·, Concordiensis Dear Sir, Congratulations to the Scouters' Service Club for doing a noble job which has bcc•n neglected by the coiiege this year. I refer to the raising and lowering of the flag on the Psi U flagpole. It is .good to !mow that some person OI' group on campus is interested enough to take over this smaii but important task. Perhaps now tfie flag will fly all year, not for just a month or two. And, also in this line of thought, why haven't we heard the chimes of the chapel clock each quarter hour this college year? The answer is that they are in perfect order, but the adminis- tration has them turned off because they may get out of orde1· if they are used. I aslt the administration, what have we got them for, if they are not to be used ? David H. Robinson FRIDAY. MAY 21, 1948 Social Education The Happy Hour By James A. Baar During the past several weeks various members of the staif of THE CONCORDIENSIS have been (l!;ditor's Note--It is unfortunate that this article, written unsolicited by a senior at a well- l•nown Eastern women's college, apears at a time when The Concordiensis is tmdei' fire for mentioning· controversies and subjects we all know about but just don't tall• about. But to withhold publication of this bhmt analysis of su<'hu lift• at a girl's Sl'hool would be to dt•prive uur stuuent readers, who after aU a.re our unti- ntate eonct•rn, of vital information.) differently c<mtinue to at t e n d left alone. It does no-t matter what chapels muttering that my inform- the en.or, nor how serious it is, as ant does not know ·What he is talk- long as it is not mentioned. No ing about .because he canno-t ell me ·blemish, thinlcing along this. line, the subject of con·siderable concern how to fix the roof, even i.f what is a blemish until someone says : to both parts off the co.nege, ad- he says is correct. This is very that it is, and then the real crim- ministration and the student body. much the attitude, though, of many inal is no-t the man who causoed· the It has been felt that these men are people. It is too much trouble to blemish but the man who .pointed in a sense malcontents, incapable find o-ut if the Chapel roof is really it out, , of seeing good in anything, and going to cave 'in, and therefore they 'This is the true issue at stake .My carewurn. haggard, typical senior face broke that they find an outlet for this comfortably call the person who here, and not the petty and fo.olish into what I fondly imagined to be an engaging, feeling through unjust a;nd .sense- warns them a malcontent whose blunderi.ngs of petty and foolish c•nchanted smile when I was granted the opportunity· less criticism of aH parts of the fhncee has run away with the men. No 0ne will truly care twenty of :;ayir.g anything I wanted to about men and dat- college community. Furthermore it garbage man and who takes out years from new whether an ad- mg. 1 later found uut that The Concordiensis .is asserted that, even if somewhere his hatred for mankind on a ministrato·r .or a &tudent at Union thuu~oht that I \va:o having an attack of indigestion· 1 n the ctiticis>m· which they offer uto-pian campus. College dees a poor job today. whieh unly goes to show what fom· years of col-· .up one can find a factual basis, If none of this sticks, however, What wil-l be important, however, leg-\ life can do. that cliticism is still generally there is yet another way of excus- is the kind of men that t'his col- AS I LOOK BACK on freshman year-four hun- negative, and therefore it is natui·- ing onesel-f from checking on the. lege will have turned loose up-on ,·red ligln-yeat·s ago-1 distinctly remember two ally useless. Finaly, as a preclusion Chapel room, namely, call one's in- the W0·Ild to govern i-t. Will he be things; nu men, uther than the Cro-l\1agnon variety. to all future discussion, disloya;lity formant disloyal and accuse him o-f fit for the task, wHl he be capable \l11c h lluuJtohc·d ut l.Jniun and R.P.I. at that tin1e, .of any undergraduate who would havi-ng ultedor motives of some in- of handling the great issues which aLJ ka1nwg how tu tltink beet with the girls partake in am activity of this kind, definite kind. This naturally means will then be at stake; will he :be a which wa~ the only sane antl• sensible way to solve Is str.ongly intimated. that one need take no account mechanic or an inventor? the fen llll r condition. \1/hen you're a Fresh--let's In answer to the question of whatsoever of what this person Certainly if the College continues get \collegiate\ in our lan~;uage- you fondly im- negative criticism, if a man comes ·says, because everything he utters in its pres-ent trend, the inventors .~gme that every college man is a football hem- to me and says that, although he is done c-ut of disloyalty to Union that it produces will be through c•r at leu:;t a man. \\'e founJ that they resembled is uninformed as to what method and loyalty to an erganization ef accident and nothing else. They the fo<-tball mo1·c than the hero- pigsliin inflated, .should be employed to fix a roof, vegetarians or mendicant Buddhists· will be the product of a few mem- WJth hut air. · h.e knows that the roof of Memorial in Albany. This method of self- bers of the faculty with n0- thanks O~E llA'l'C:U OF DATES that pwudly presented Chapel is about to cave in, I do delusion is the most ridiculous- of\ to an organization that blocked themselves f1um une uf our \btother\ colleges was not disregard his warning because all, and unfo-rtunately extremely them at every turn _saying only, a dream. They were all wearing their tlrst• sport it is pure negative criticism. Con- p.opular. \Conform -or get out.\ They will jackets and !Jl oudly di~played what they thought trarywise I ask upon what facts he All this then boils down to the be those few who were able to sur- v:u~ \manlilce\ foliage below the Adam's apple. But bases hiso statement, and, if I am .fact that what the majority of the vive being jammed into the meat the real dt eam was the one who allowed his cate still not convinced, I go 'and in- people, who •have been so concerned· c'hopper and came through as some- ju\t one cokt>, disapt oved of girls' smoking, and vestigate for myself. Above all, with what has been printed in the thing that wasn't quite sausoage whose main topic of conversation was his far too however, I do not blithly and in- CONCORDIENSIS, want is to ·be at all. • Jecrnt sp1nal opel'ation. ~e never found out whether ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ht• was a throwback or had just never been weaned. Such was freshman year; utterly delightful when we didn't have a date! SOPHOMORE YEAR found us with a larger val'iety of men·- but still practically all of the home- A Look At Student Government By Al llill gt own, 'hould-ha ve-been-canned-three-years-ago type. Much criticism has been leveled However. we learned not to call a ft·aternity a \frat against the Student Council and and that ''closet material\ didn't mean hats and· Student Government during re·cent coats it meant our cates. We had become .Q:J.Onths. A good deal of this has 1 eally pw!icient in chu~-a-luggir.g and could sing a been justified and much has been few lilthy songs without losing the pois·e we mis- misdirected. Strong self-govern- takenly Imagined that we possessed. we were all rnent demands not only strong men m f~vot· of fl·ee love and atheism in barroom dis- who are true leaders, but also a cus:;wns, but we still had qualms about kissing on strong clear-cut system within tlw tirst date. That was the year that we were all which they can operate. Strength mud to own a fraternity pin-anyone's pin ft·om any will arise only when ambiguities, ity in the new document are the board of managers and the student tax committee. These .groups should be assigned specific fields in which to operate and the coun- cil should exercise only mild con- trol over their activities as long as they remained within the limits of their charters. the current establishment is main- tained, the constitutional provisi-on which allows the student body as a unit to recall the representatives of any class should be ·eliminated .. Under this clause, a student might adequately represent his own class, but at the discretion of the ,student body c·ould be recalled from office. If a m.an is electeo;l by a class, that class should be the only unit with the power to recall him fro!ll of- fice. lraternny. Everyone d·iscovered that it was possible contradictions, and overlapping To prevent any confl.ict of author- to get in or out of the dorms after they had been .lines ·of authority in the present ity between the student and inter- loeked but most of us, worldly though we were, system have been eliminated. fraternity councils, the latter group One method of representation didn't dare to try. One of the greatest needs of should also be included in those employed by many colleges, and WE DI8COVERED Colgate and Dartmouth- student government at Union to- groups which are endowed with po·ssibly worthy of trial at Union. and didn't quite !mow what to make of the Dekes day is a new constitution. The certain prerogatives in the realm is that of representation by Jiving at t•Jther place. ·we discovered that there was more general activities committee of the of student government. The IFC units. Such a procedure might tt1an one way of being kissed and even bragged last student council broke ground ought te maintain its control over yield better representation, but the about how many martinis we drank in how little on this project and that same com- strictly fraternity matters, but any plan would ha'Wl to be satlsfac- tmw and huw sick we we 1 ·e afterwards. Anyor.e mittee in the new council is mak- items concerning the entire student torily adjusted so that the student wlw wa~n·t miserable on Sunday mornings was a ing progress towards the goal of body as a group should be handled council did ;not become unwieldy \squat e m the :;uc:ial circle\ and we made it a habit . strengthening the structure of our ·by the student council, or its sub- due to greatly increased size. Re- to be m need of an \alky\ on Mcnday mornings. self-government. ordinate agencies, the student tax presentation by living un·its would ::lophumore year ended and we \knew men.\ First on the list of things the committee, the board of managers, have the advantage of placing the JL'NIOR YEAR is always delightful-you can't new constitution should undertake and the publications board. members of the student council touch a jurJor with a ten foot pole unless you have is to blow the haze off a number As a further measure to bolster in a position where they would a cunvertible and can talk of your various experi- of ambiguous clauses in the cur- the structure I would rec·ommend have daily contact with the men ences in an unable-to-be-counted number of \houses.\ rent \supreme law of the campus.\ that the chairman of the student they represented. Weekends began on Wednesdays and ended on Men- This document which supposedly body and Student council be g.iven Another innovation which might day night and. we traveled to Hamilton, Cornell, Am- fosters the cau&e of democratic broad appointive powers. This in- be undertaken to avoid and juris- hers!. ar.d Williams. \Ve supported, and in turn action, blasts such efforts in Article dividual is one of two students on· dictional disputes and to do away \VeJ·e supported by, the Wednesday night club and VIII, Part 2, where freshmen are campus who occupies a post by with the set-up whereby the stu· live inntations fer each weekend was considered denied the right of franchise in virtue of selectJon by the entire dent council. both makes and inter- awmgc We also became snobs about our c-ollege their first term at Union. We can student body. Thus, he should be prets the iaw. would be the crea- chotccs and had every college classified. Dartmouth make no claims towards being de- given much more power than he tion of a judicial board. This ·board and C olgate meant wild, who-gives-a-damn-and-any- mocratic until we allow ail rnem- now holds. Included in the ap- might well be composed of two way-they'll-never-know weekends; Yale and Prince- bers of the student body the right pointments he should be allowed seniors and a junior, elected by the ton we;e sophisticated, scotch and water places; to vote, whether they be freshmen to make w,ould be those to any student body with the junior serv- Columbta meant_the Biltmore and the Village-both or seniors. Students must not -only college committee on which the ing a two year term to give the paradise; at Hamilton we always had a O'OOd time be allowed to exercise the right of student body is now represented, group continuity. The boa._rd would a mixture of beer, highballs, and cocktail~. ' the ballot, they should be urged to including the discipline committee, handle all questions of interpreta- WE REALLY WERE DELIGHTED with \the use that prerogative. The precedent the admissi-ons committee, and the tion .of the constitution and the little three\ 'cause we can't remember having had making general elections held last student tax committee. The chair- council's legislative actions. a dull time at Williams. Wesle•·an, or Amherst·, and month, in which 70% of the eligible man also would be given the right J t t u · t t th 1 t fill · · th 1 The above measures represent, whenever we were brol\c or had pla.,ed our cards vo ers a nwn wen o e po Is o vacancies In e counci J t 1 th · 1 ff' h d b · t· d th in no way, all the steps that must wrong at some other colle~e. we went to Unr·cn and o se ·ect err c ass o rcers, s ow cause y res1gna Ion an e \' th t ff t t t\ 1 t t d t · t · t th t d' be und·ertaken to buthess our pre- R.P.I.--at least, that's the way the storv goes but a e or s o s rmu a e s u en In- power o apporn ·e s an mg com- J ' t t b f 'tf 1 Th \tt f th ·1 t sent student government structure, I don't see how so many of us could· have been eres can e ru1 u. ese ef- mi ees o e councr wi h ·Or f t h ld b t . d \th · t th t b d • 1 but if they were adopted they brol\e at t_he same time. Being girls ourselves, me or s s ou · e con mue and in- ·WI ou a o y s approva. \ d · th f t should do much to strengthen . the ne\·er constdered Harvard! We became well-known, crease m e u ure. Little, as yet, has been said about present system and give the stu- infamous that is, at special colleges and special The question of which unit holds the present system of representa- dent body an adequate voice in fraternities, and though we kr.ew that our reputation the ultimate authority in student tion in student government. If the governing of its own affairs. m1ght have suffered some, we wanted to know life· government was debated frequently and we <!id! in the 1:947·1948 student council i n A!'o/D NOW THI<~ MAD WHIRL of being a senior --and having fire escapes which we're all proficient at. using. Our language is completely filthy, our nunds are worse, every word has two meanings- ours and Webstel''s. Our life reads like a Heming- way novel-and we're proud of it! We're so sophisti- cated, so smooth, so sure of ourselves, that we actually spend some weekends studying because dt ink ins and dilty jukes bore us and there's more to living than that--and we. know it! As a matter o.f fact, though, we have come to prefer a date with whom we can talk-of philosophy, ofr politics, of the Ia test bouk~--without feeling like a \student.\ Al- though we can tal>e anything in our stride without hlinl>ing· an eyelash, we prefer men with a little more to~e and savoir faire. In spite of ourselves. we've developed a sense of standards and most of u.- \1 ;.<'lua lly lu••king for a good marriage risk. Sound~ stuffy, doesn't it? And yet, at the same time \\'e're always ready for a beer picnic, a blanket party, a moonlight d·ip-or an allnight date. ALTHOL'GH WE'D STILL RATHER DRINK than eat, rather play than worlc, and prefer men to women at any time Cof course, lhPre are always a few ... 3, we hopefully knit at·gyles for a likely future husband and we're rather f.on.d of the young businessmen. of our acquaintances , . , and can you clame us? After four years of hangovers, sleepless weel\ends, barrooms, dirty glasses, warm drinks, no morals, and men whose thems song seems to be \You Gotta Give Me What You Got\ we're tired. \1\!e prefer a double bed to a doubl~ life and we can't stand the strain of more than one man at a time. Frankly, men, you've worn us out. . INSTEAD OF ~lAKING HAY while the su~ shinPs, we're in favor of making sons whil-e the moon shines. We know that you like to \make merry.\ but there are other verbs in the· language, loo. Yes, we've enjoyed dating you; you've enjoyed dating us; and we've both enjoyed each other, but though \a miss is as good as a niilc,\ it isn't as geed as a Mrs., because, socially, being made a Mrs. is safer than being made as a Miss. Got the point? Well, lceep it to yourself and make good use· of it. regards to tjle relation of the pub- lications board with the legislative agent of the student body. The council is empowered as the su- preme governmental body on cam- pus by its constitution, but the constitution of the publications board makes that group supreme in the realm of publications. Al- thou!lh the council asserted itself as being the head of the structure, the status of the publicati·ons unit has become severely clouded. A new constitution should stipulate exactly what the authority of the publications board is so that no unit may accuse ·another .of en- croarhing upon its authority to the detriment of the· entire sys- tem. The council should not be I endowed with any powers of cen- sorship, but should endeavor to keep politics and the press s·epar- ate. Other boards or committees which should be delegated author- FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverc!lges PHONE 6-9554 .. 1115 BARRETT STRIIET For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN Hiram J. McKain Co. William H. Plath 306 Union Street Phone 4-4448 601 Union Street Lawn Seeds Insecticides AUTO SERVICE Fertilizers WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY COo HEADQUARTE.RS Fo,. WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engraving Pens and the Finest Gifts Corner State and Center Sts.

21, 1948 A. Baar what it is, as No this. line, eone ·Says real crim- the .pointed at stake fo.olish foolish twenty an ad- at Union today. , however, t'his col- oose upon he be be capable which ill he :be a continues inventors through They few mem- nG- thanks blocked only, They will to sur- . the meat some- sau&age Alllill is main- provision body as tatives ·eliminated .. dent might O\I'.'TI class, ,student office. class, that unit with froPl of- resentation and at Union. by living ure might on, but the satlsfac- student unwieldy d size. Re- would placing the council WOl,\Jd h the men might and juris- do away the stu- and inter- e the crea- This ·board of two by the junior serv- give the would interpreta- and the represent, that must our pre- structure, they ,the the stu- voice in affairs. secticides • FRIDAY, MAY 21. 1948 3 Cindermen Seek Perfect Season LOOSE ENDS by H:ERB SAXE Cherry And White lawrencemen Upset Rochester; Top Favorites To Second Fray With RPI Tomorrow 0 Ga~rnet Favored In Nine-College Meet At RPI Tomorrow Win Lacrosse Tilt By Jim Ettinger By Jolrn Vesty Justly proud of its :L6 game win- ning streak, the Olympic bound RPI stickmen will invade the Fallacy or Fact we have to do something \wronger\ Union campus tomorrow afternoon American athletics are ostensibly. to them. It's like a snewball, grow- to meet the Dutchmen on Library · ing bigger and bigger each year. Field. Both the Engineers and the noted for two great institutions, . The Union College baseballers will be seeking their second win over the rival R.P.I. Engineers of Troy wl'len the two teams clash tomorrow at 2 :30 on Alexander Field. In the first meeting at Troy, the Dutchmen emerged the victors by a 3-0 score, and they will be out to repeat their initial pel'- formance. By Bob Horn The Garnet Track Team continued on its meny way by trouncing a strong R.P.I. squad t<\ the tune of 80 1-3 to 40 2-3 Saturday on Alex~ anrlel' Fi~ld for their fourth stmigh t vidory. Although Coach b:etz predicted a close meet, the Dutchmen carried off 10 fil'st place l10nors and seven spots. ~ ~ Th Where Will it stop? Garnet have met four teams m sportsmanship and team spirit. e d ---------------~ Phil McQuade, who has been the h . Studen·t Cottncil action toward common thus far this season, an Hmelf'ss legPnds of sportsmans tp wr. ich thriii the he aPt of every red- the RPI request for funds (via ads the statistic a( comparison between · d l''bl 1'n a magaz1'ne) to send their la- these scores would indicate that ~blooded American are an m e 1 e · J t · del' crosse team to England this sum- the Cher.ry and White will be field- part of Amel'lcana, · us as 1n 1- . ·bly stamped are the tales of \heart mer for the Olympics, is, I hope, ing the strongest team that Umon The tennis team extended its and guts\ that give a man that in- not indicative of general student will ·me-et this year. wip.ning streak to five consecutive Middlebury Fifth Victim of Netmen visible drive, enabling him to make feeling on this matter. The Student A brief glipmse of the past meets by defpating Middlebury on a la~t minute touchdown for \dear Council unanimously decided to record of the two teams in this Wednesday. The team showed its old Podunk\ against overwhelming await and see if the Interfraternity respect show the Engineers on the strength by pulling away from the odds, or a last heart-tearing spurt Council would take action on the heavy end of a 17-0 tilt against losing side of a 3-2 score, to win to edae out his traditional op- matter. What a wonderful way to Sa·mpson; a 15-2 win over Lehigh; 6 -3. ' poncnt at the tape. Americans create a feeling of friendship be- a 12-8 win over Virginia and a 7-4 The Middlebury men showed thrive on such tales of· sports tween the two schools. Regardless win over Yaie. more strength on their own courts heroism. of what action the fraternities take· The Garnet, in comparison, man- than they did here two weeks be- The fallacy of this sportsman- on this.r-equest, the Student Council aged a 15-2 win over Sampson; a fore In the number one singles ship and team spirit appears at the should have acknowledged the re- 4-3 margin over Lehigh; dropped Bart Kusserow lost his first match spectator level. Everyone is out quest, instead of hoping that the a close 8-7 decision to the U. of of the season, a close one, to Bob there cheering on the team; but Interfraternity Council might take Virginia and a 8-4 loss to the Eli. Parker, 9-7, 6-3, 6-4. Kuss':lrow had somehow the sportsmanship is en- care of Union's responsibility in Both the Garnet and the Engineers defeated Parker when Middlebury gulfed by the spirit. .this matter. Have we got a Stu- wm be potentially strong in r-e- played here. Another reversal was Strangely enough, \face saving\ dent Council? serves for tomorrows fray, and one Louis Killeen's loss to Ad Merrick, is not restricted to the Orient. The This Saturday the student body of the largest crowds ever to wit- 2-6, 2-6. At one point in the match average American sports fan would as a whole has an opportunity to ness a lacrosse game on Library Middlebury h·ad won three of the be the first to deny it; but he is make a concrete contribution' Field is expected to turn out for five matches, with one singles the most notorious offender of toward the betterment of Union- the contest. match and three doubles matches sportsmanship. RPI relationships. At the lacrosse Probable starting lineup for the remaining. The team showed its Keep an eye on \Joe Public\ contest ll.t 2:30 on Library Field · th 1 strength by winning all four game places Grant m · e goa ; some afternoon as he watches his there will be a voluntary collec- p hi d matches. At the moment, aside th Quinlan, Flynn and a on .e- team do its stuff. Provided the tion taken during the game, e k d R t from the first 8-1 loss to Sevens, fense; Brady, Mar es an os m hometown team is in the lead you proceeds to be used toward defray- the midfield; George, Barry and the team has lost only 8 of the couldn't find a more affable guy ing the expenses the Engineers Ketchum. on attack. last 45 points. Kusserow, Captain than \Joe.\ If the tide should turn wiii incur on their English tour. I Ivan Scheier, Frasier Henry and and the hometowners end up on· think It's about time something Virginia Shades Garnet Richard Jesser, playing one, two, the light end of a score, stand was done about the low state to . A strong, but battle weary, Uni- four and five, have lost only one clear. Just watch• \Joe\ then. The which our rivalry with RPI has versity of Virginia lacrosse team point each in singles play. umps are awful, the players for the slipped. Even ·at the threat of dis- managed a last minute rally on Last Monday the game scheduled opposition are playing a dirty agreeing with our esteemed Stu- rainswept Library Field last Mon- with Albany State Teachers' Col- game. You have pever heard a dent Council, I say something can, day to break into the lead seconds 'lege was rained out after five more· vehement u\.dividual than · a'!'d should, be done. before the final whistle ended the· matches had been begun. One of \J·oe Public\ watching his team Prexy has invited Livingston W. game with the Virginians on top them was finished, Ivan Scheier fight a losing battle. Nothing his ·Houston, president of RPl, ·over of an 8-7 score. The Gamet dis-. defeating Carl Koechlin 6-3, 6-0. own squad does is right, anything here Saturday as his guest and played th~ best brand of stickwork The big test of the schedule comes the other team does is criminal there will undoubtedly be a large of the season in the nip and tuck today, when the team goes to and the officials are helping them. Cherry and White delegati 0 n fray, and it was anyones game R.P.I. to engage the Engineers We condone \Joe\ by saying it's present since lacrosse at RPI has right from the opening whistle. on their home courts. The home all spirit. I wonder what happened assumed the proportions of a major At the end of the first period the game with R.P.I. scheduled for last to the aforementioned sportsman- sport. Now is the time for .all of visitors were in the lead 3-2, and Friday was rc.'<ed out, and will be ship, or is sportsmanship nonex- us to prove to the visitors from going• into the last frame it was played next Friday. istent off the field of combat? I Troy that we can take it as well still the Southerners by a 7-6 tally. wonder? as dish it out. With only five minutes remaining, Thel'e is no better an eX!ample Someone has to make the .first Frank Ketchum, found home for HOORAY of this fallacy than in the Union- move toward improving this old. his second tally to even the score. RPI rivalry. No, it isn't always rivalry. Just because Eliphalet Nott During the last thirty seconds RPI. It's strictly a \tit for tat\ was the first president of RPI as Virginia scored again to win the arrangement. If Union wins a well as being the most dis- game. game, we are all right in there tinguished of Union's presidents Ketchum was high scorer for the rubbing salt in the wound. RPI let's not hold that against each locals with two counters, while does something to wrong us and other. George, Barry, Hoffman, Fotesta Anyone interested in becom- ing a cl1eerleader, to begin next Fall, please oall Ol' leave your name with the Director of Ath- letics at the Gymnasium on or before Tuesday, May 25. Muffin Men Trou!1ce Albany For Third Win Bill Cox's hackers brought the<$ totals up to three wins against two (U) beat Wadach (A) 2 and ;t, Mc- Coy (U) beat Bowen (A) 9 and 8, .defeats for the season by virtue Frost (U) beat Bartnic'h (A) 7 and of a forfeit from R.P.I. and an easy 5 and Mendelspn (U) beat Cara.sella nine to zero win over Albany State. Don McCoy had the best day for the muffin men .on Edison's well puddled fairways. Mac went out in 36 and came back in 40 for a three over par 76. The results were: Swan (U) beat Diviano (A) 5 and 4, Basko·us (U) beat Beniagi (A 6 and 5, Behan (A 5 and 4. Bestball: Swan-Bask- ous over Diviano-Beniagi 6 and 5, Behan-McCoy .over Wa,pach-Bowen 7 and 6, Frost-Mend·elson over Bart-· nich-Caresella 5 and 4. The team leaves for two tough matches this weekend playing Clarkson Friday and St. Lawrenee Saturday. ••come back, Carrie, I'll give you all my . Oentyne Chewing Gum!,. \I don't hold witli hoardin', Mam, but •you mighta !mown I'd stay-1 reckon nobody ~an resist that delicious flavor of Dentyne Chewmg Gum! And De!l tyne sure helpa keep my teeth white, too.\ Dentyne Gum-Made Only By Adams ~ (Continued on Page 4) :Prospective sophomo1·es espe- Cially urged to turn out. ARROW PRESENTS ••• SPORT KNITS fOR SUMMER Arrow has come up this .spring with the handsomest crop of sporty pullovers that we have ever seen. For sheer comFort, form-fitting lines and brand new :patterns, come in and see our new summer sport knits by Arrow. $1.25 and up. NUSBAUM'S . } .. \ J ----FO!( ARROW $PORT KNITS--· number one hurler fot· the Garnet n !1 sen\on is cx-pcc·ted to start on the mound in an effort to repeat the shutout thut he hulled at Tt oy over thP Cheny and \\.'hite. He will prohnbly be opposed by Irv Huie, who has done well for the Engineers all season. Both Union and R.P.I. han' identical records for the Reason, and tomorrow's contest should be a hotly contested battle, with a pitchers' duel to be expected. Union has won four and lost six, while the Engineers have a 3-6 record. lUcQuadP Blanks Rochestet· After losing a close battle to Stevens Tech last Saturday, 4-3, at Hoboken, the Dutchmen broke back onto the win tra'il Wednesday as pitcher Phil ~1cQuade re\'enged his previous 8-3 loss to the Yellow Jackets of the L'niversity of Roch- ester by blanlting them 3-0 on their home diamond while allowing only four scattered hits. The Garnet actually clinched the ball game in the first inning. Billy Eade led,off the Union attack with a single, and scooted ail the way to third base when the Rochester center fielder let the drive get through him. Cat·! Armstrong then drew a walk, and stole second base. AI Wade hit a long fly to field, scoring Eade on the next play. Shortstop Bob Bartlett then singled, scoring Armstrong and gi\'- ing the Dutchmen a 2-0 lead \' hich was never relinquished. The third Union run was scored <Continued on Page 4 l NOTT RESTAURANT and BAR Right Outside Green Gate ~ WINES - LIQUORS and BEER· The Union Cindermen handed their arrh·rivalH their first loss in thrP<:' year\ and it was the Gar- net's first win o~ the Cherry and ·White in eleven seasons. This aftemoon with four stmight tri- umph\ under their helts, the Ketz- men tackled a not too stt•ong Roch- ester team, which lost to R.P.I. 88-43. This was the Garnet's final duel track meet of a highly suc- ces,;ful season. Tomorrow the cin- dermen enter in the R.P.I. Invita- tional Meet at Troy. Stellar performances were turned in by Bob McQueen and Ken ~Whalen; each gat·nercd two first places for the victcn·s. McQueen won the 120 yard high hurdles in 15.R, and his fast 26.0 gave him the 220 yard low hurdles. Whalen snared first place points in the dis- cus and the shot put. Culver and Wright onre again ran one-two in both the mile and half mile races. Bundschuh, of R.P.I., turned in the most outstanding performance of the day by grabbing first place in the 100 yard, 220 yard, and 4'40 yard runs and won the high scorer's laurel with 15 points. For the fourth consecutive meet Whalen in the shot put, Westlund in the javelin, and Wright and Cui- VE'r in the mile and half mile runs <Continued on Page 4) GOOD SHOES FOR STUDENTS and FACULTY Patton & Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 STATE ST.-8ince 1898 ...,. PERFECT FOR GOLF, TENNIS, OR. ••• BASQUING IN THE SUN Arrow Sport Knits $1.25 up r::;;Ji1' Merely wearing Arrow basque shirts will not make you a Snead Ol' a Budge, but Arrow \a large selection of sport knits in solid eolot·s and stripes will do wonders fot' torso~ tame as well as terrific. See your Arrow dealer today for a long-wearing, handsome and comfortable Arrow Basque shirt. ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS G SPORTS SHIRTS

'·· . I+, 4 . Athletes Honored Sports awards were given to twenty-one students during Chapel service Thursday. Sports sweaters and blankets were awarded to Robert Bartlett, Robert Markes, Neumont Culver, Hal Enstice, Pete Spezzan'O. Sweaters were given also to Anthony Coppola, Dave Lennek,. Bill O'Neill, Jim Pemrick, Dick Roberts, Jim Schultz, John Brightman, John De Bello, Charles Duggan, Bud Mills, Bert Napear, Brud Schaefer, K~>n Whalen, Roy Westlund, Jack Weiss and Carl Armstrong. The awards were given for two or more years of participation in spring sports. Peter J. Nistead varsity basket- ball coach presented life passes to the following graduating seniors who were managers of varsity sports: Eli Modlin, CI'OSS country; Randolph Stelle and Albert Hill track; John Newton, football; James Morton, baseball; and Al- bert Talmund. swimming. Team captains also similarly honored are Robert Bartlett, baseball; Ivan Scheier, tennis; and Hal Enstice, football. All students holding scholarships this term and who wish them re- newed should report to the Dean's Office before May 28. No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. [Near Proctor's} SERViNG UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TA!LORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY FOR All YOUR SIFT NEEDS Serving Union Since 7911 ~/3. R 1 ~son~ ()R\\\ll~AY ST.JlWlUPS II 166 Jay Street II FRENCH Cleaners and Dyers 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service .. • Phone 6-4295 MILK VItamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6-2351 FRIDAY1 MAY 21.. 1'9.48 Funds Needed Baseball Pre-M·ed Of·flaC. ers c t ' Old The Campus Chest Committee: (Continued from PB!ge 3) . en ury . . . Lacrosse has announced that all donations (Continued froni Page 3) for the year have been made by in the fourth inning without a hit Officers for the coming year were Cl;li Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta the Committee and that with an' being registered. Bartlett was elected in the last meeting of the celebrated the hundredth anniver- and Napear each chalked up one bills for printing and postage now walked, and _went to second on Jl.;ic- Pre-Medical Society, held in the sary of the f.ounding of Phi Gam for the Garnet, received. a deficit of $58.03 remains Quade's sacnfice. He reached ~h1rd on Saturday, May 1st. T·he occasion . Last week, the Statesmen from on the books. Since there are 228 on a passed ball, and sprmted BioJ.ogy Build·in:g on Monday, May was celebr~~;ted with a dinner of students· who pledged a total Of home on John Chapman's long fly 10, at 12:30 p.m. Elected to the of- Fiji alumni .and undergrAduates at Geneva edged out an H-8 win over $1155.85 to the fund and have not' to center field. ftce of president was Robert Plet- the Pint Point Inn in Schenectady .. Union when the stickmen met yet contributed, the committee' In blanking the Rivermen, Me- m~~;n, , 50 ; vice-president, Joseph J. Addresses were given by members Hobart College on their home fi~ld. urges that they take their contri- Quade was in top form, and he of the Fraternity's National Head-. All the 18 man squad that made ' butions to the Student Activities was never in trouble throughout Cali, 'Do; Stewart \Doc\ Stephens, quarters, prominent area ·alumni· the trip saw ·action, with Doug Office as soon as possible. the game. He struck out four op- '50, treasu-rer; and Eric Loewy, '50,. and leading undergraduates. Bal'l'y •leading the Union scoring ---o posing batters, and walked only secretary. Also elected at this time Phi Gamma Delta was founded with four goals. Gra ·nt CI:-osen · four men in nine innings of play. was Brocl{ PoweH , 51 as publicity at ~ashington and .Jeffe~son Col- 11 The Dutchmen collected nine hits leg M 1948 nd ·ch Ch ter manager. e m ay, ' a l ap WiHiam Grant has been chosen off of big Carl Wren, who had After the elections, some of was chartered at Union. Coi'lege in Trach: as student directol' of Freshman beaten the Lawrencemen previous- which were hotly contes>ted, the· 1893. ---0--- Camp, Dr. Davidt>on announced to-· ly, but this time was charged with {Continued from Page 3) day. The camp is to be held the loss. meeting was continued· with an in-. -------------- f al d . · f th s · t ' · were undefeated by a member of Steptember 10-14, at Pilot Kn-ob. \Ilion- AB R H PO A E orm Jscussion o e oc1e Y s gamzation at its I.'O!xt meeting on. \ d · · 1 t d t ·1 f M t the opposing team. In the !iour Gl ant is co-captain of next year's Eade. c ••••.•••••••••• 5 1 2 4 0 0 propose plcmc, comp e e . e ar s o ay 17 a 12:30 in their usual dua·l meets to ·date the Union varsity basketball teaxn, and a Rice, 2b ......•••..••• 6 0 o 3 2 a· which will be presented to the or- meeting room. T k A.rmstrong 3h 4 1 • 1 5 1 · .rae men have won 44 first places member of the lacrosse team. He \\'ade, rf : . ... :::::::: 4 o 1 o o o out of a possible 56. Ollie Per- will be responsible for the selec- Ensti<:e, ef •...•....•. 4 u 0 2 0 0 soneous with six points in the tion and directing of the student Bal'tlett, ss · · · · · · · · · · · 3 1 2 1 2 0 R pI · t ff t h McQuade, p •••••••••• 3 o 1 o 5 o H. E A. n · · . . ·m'llet IS higher scorer for s a a t e camp. Chapman, 1b ..•.. , .• , 4 o 1 13 o o · . A the team. with 42 markers. Newt Hochuli,lf ........... 4 o 0 3 0 o ·culve~. with 36';4 counters, is sec- .-- .. --o--- Dr. E. K. Bacon, ass-ociate pro· fessor of chemistry at Union col- lege, has been reelected secretary~ treasurer of Eastern New York Chapter, Ametican Chemical So· ciety for the 19th time. Totals ............. 36 3 9 27 14 1 cort.ICORDY SPEA·'s ond, and Whalen ·and McQueen are Sh~~«i~~~!~~;::- ss ..... ~~ ~ ~ Pp 1 ~ l\t . . . 1\. tier for third place with 36 points. Dean's Box Score James Bryson Gam ish, c ...•...••.• 4 o 1 4 o o The remainder of the top ten Bruton, 3b ........... 4 o o o 3 o Ton.i·l'!lht _.... 1:45 _ WRUC scorers are: Wright 32'A., William- Bowllan, cf .... · ...... 4 0 2 4 0 1 '::11 son 21, Lawto.n 18, Hagar 18, Mil- Hex. 2b .......•...•.• 4 0 0 1 2 0 Becker, lb ............ 4 o 1 14 o o fol'd 17, and Westlund 15. Lacey, If .........•.. 2 0 0 3 0 0 Wood, rf ............. 2 0 0 0 0 0 Hawn, rf ............ 2 0 0 0 0 0 Wren, p •••.••.••.•••• 4 0 0 0 2 0 Totals .............. 32 0 4 27 11 2 l:nion .................. ~00 100 000-3 Rochester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 000 000 000-0 Runs batted in-Bartlett. Chapman. Stolen base- Armstrong. Sacrifice - :lleQuade. Bases on balls-Off \Vren 2, ~1cQuade 4. Stril<eouts-Wren 3, McQuade 4. Passed balls-Garnish. COLONIAL ICE ·CREAM CO. Ice Cream af Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phone 6-3443 Scotia -- f> GAZETTE PRESS Printers WHERE THERE'S COKE THERE'S REFRESHMENT BOffiEI> UNDER AUTHORITY Of JHE CQCA·COLA COMPANY BY SCHENECTADY COCA COLA BOTTLING CO. © 1948; The Ceca-Cola Company I . ~~~ Ll KE CHEST;RFIELDS -THEY'RE MY BRAND BECAUSE THEY'RE MILD/' STARRING IN 11 SAIGON\ A PARAMOUNT PICTURE WHY ... I smoke Chesterfield (FROM A SERIES OF STATEMENTS BY PROMINENT TOBACCO FARMERS) ..I think Chesterfield is a good-smoking cigarette and I like them. They have a good, ripe-tobacco taste and they're mild. \Nobody pays a higher price to get good-smoking tobacct) than Chesterfield. They buy 'Sweet, ripe tobacco. Look,slike a gold dollar in the barn. •• . ·4?.~ ;;t~ F(IRMER, PARIS, KY. ..

1'9.48 e 3) up one from win over met fl~ld. made ' Doug scoring 3) ember of the !iour Union places Per- in the for Newt is sec- are 36 points. top ten William- 18, Mil- CTURE • Founded at Union College in 1877 Vol. 70. No. 28 SCHENECCTADY, N.Y .• FRIDAY. MAY 28, 1948 PRICE 10 CENTS Students O·ff Beam On Plan, They Say Students ·Get, Hamilton Tough Over Chapel' A revolt against compul- groundwork for future vol- sory chapel attendance was untary chapel atteNdance to temporarily postponed by end the problem of \com- Hamilton Coilege st1:1dents pulsory religioN at Hamil- this week until the effects ton College.\ WoolyOldsterstoParade AsNovicesGetSbeepskin of a student petition and Rampant By Jll,Il\es F. McCom-t Satire Student opposition to the pro- posed ftel dhouse is the result of misinformation, according to Fran- cis C. Pray, Director of Public R~-, lations of the cel!ege, and Frederic A. Wyatt, Director of Alumni Re- lations. The field house, they pointed out, is merely one phase, of a long range building program. The results of the student poll taken last week merely confirm the program which the college has al- ready initiated. This program in- cludes a new freshman dorm in the pasture, a new library and re- building the power plan, in addi- tion to the much debated field house. student council action could At last reports, before be ascertained. A meeting this dispute arose, it was was scheduled for last Wed- compulsory for students to nesday between Robert R. a~tend Sunday chapel s~r~ Wicks, dean of chapel, and VICes at the college. Epi~­ fifteen students represent- copal _3Jnd Roman Catholic ing the student body to at- worsh1pp.ers were aHowed tempt a settlement. ~o go to_ their ~wn churches In Union College has set its 152nd annual commencement program for the weekend beginning Friday, June 11, with reunions scneduled for the Classes of 1888, 1893, 1898, 1903, 1908, 1913, 1918, 1923, 1928, 1933, 1938, 1943, and 1945. George S. Pierson of Kalamazoo, Michigan, a member of the Class of 1875 and one of the oldest living graduates of the College, will be Grand Marshall of the traditional Alumni Chapelp_roc_ess __ ion_. ____ ~· Beta UTie-up Stalled by Decision Alumni Register Registration for the weekend will be held in the General Engineer- Plans had been made for m the crty (Clmton, N. Y.) the entire student body to Atten~ance .at the non-de- stay away' from chapel. nom 1 nat 1 on a I Sunday 'Phis plan was abandoned chapels was compulsory for twenty-four hours before it everyone else. Contributions Already Jteooived The program for raising funds for the field house will begin in the fall. Nevertheless, alumni have already taken the initiative and contributed $25,000 toward the $400,000 goal. Not date has yet been set for breaking gr.ound for the project since this is not going to be a mortgaged operation. When the necessary money has been procured, construction will begin. was to take place because it was felt that tne student action already taken, the petition and student council recommendations, might bring the desired result when l\'Ir. Wicks proposed a plan that would increase the allotment of chapel cuts. It has been reported by the Spectator, Hamilton newspaper, that the Wicks proposal includes the Chape'ls were also held twice during the week. At- tendance at these chapel programs was optional. According to the Hamil- ton catalog, \the college, while under no denomina- tional control, is in the Christian tradition and re- gards divine worship as a regu,Jar part of the life of its students.\ The field house, designed by Mc- Kim, Meade and White Co., will measure 180x197 feet and will be WRUC Forced to Suspend located in the vacant land near Dutchman's Village. It will cover a dirt floor of 35,460 square feet. Operati·ons D,ue to Leakage a 1/10 of a mile track and 150 locker units. Mr. Pray and Mr. Wyatt pointed Operations for the year were terminated by station WRUC out how wholly inadequate the at 11:00 p.m. on May 24 as the result of action instigated by present Alumni Gymn.asium, built a group of local citizens. Wrathful at the gross injustice for a student body of 400 in 1913, • f h · b 11 d ff th · b th is for the present student body of of havmg one o t en· num er pu e O e air Y e over 1500. In comparison with Federal ·Communications Commission for operating a radio most other schools of comparable station without a license, they determined that WRUC, size. Union falls woefully short in though licensed, should meet the same fate. athletic facilities. The erection ·Of College Exhonorated · 11--------------- the field house, they pointed out, \'The result of this was a check-up will relieve the congestion and on the activities of the college overcrowding now found in the Alumni Gymnasium. • radio station •and complete exon- eration of the latter. However, A series of slides, with recorded station WRUC, which is only per- addresses by various members of mitted to operate as a wired radio the administrati-on and musical station-i.e. transmit through the background by the college glee, power Jines on the college grounds club, is · being prepared for pre- -was found to be approaching sentation to the alumni groups in dangerously close to the legal limit the fall. These slides show graph- of wired broadcasting because of ically how Union has outgrown its the poor condition of the insula- present athletic facilities and how tion on the lines leading from the the field house will solve the PI'Ob- transmitter to the power wires. lem. This has resulted in excessive leak- ---OI--- age and radiation of radio waves, D Chi Case Lull Until Court Acts and the staff of WRUC deemed it wise to cease their broadcasting activities while they were still in the clear, rather than chance being tabbed for etherial transmission, with its subsequent penalties and complications. \Discretion is the better part of valor.\ It will re- quire several weeks of hard work <Continued on Page 4) Offer New Hope For Low Graders Something new in a system of grades has been adopted by Whit- man College, Walla Walla, Wash- ington. Designed to eliminate the \under the fence\ C's and D's that plague many students right up to the day that they graduate, it con- sists of a revised scale-A, B, P, and F-that completely eliminates the numerical or grade point aver- ages. The \P which has no special word connotation, means that a student possessing it is not doing work on the A or B level but that he is coming safely within the graduation requirements. It is more than a low satisfactory; it is a healthy, passing grade. By Herbert Saxe The old proverb, \He who laughs last, laughs best,\ was certainly apropos with relation to yester- day's chapel program. Re-inaugu- rating the annual \Take-Off Day,\ the more aggressive Union men gave the rest of the student body their biggest a,nd best \bellylaff\ in the last chapel of the year. All Thursday morning, word was circulated, by way of the grape- vine, that the chapel program was going to be good. As ·a result, Me- morial Chapel was jammed with eager and expectant students by twelve o'clock. They were not dis- appointed. A hush fell over the hopeful masses as Senior class president John Hanna stepped bravely up to the podium and balefully read the usual humdrum announcements. Dismissing the prosaic announce- ments with unusual acumen, Hanna turned the program over to Bob Thurston who \veddy veddy\ wittily introduced the program. Just which senior made the big- g'llst ass of himself is somewhat doubtful. Top J;J.Onors for satirical buffoonery were divided between Bob Riesner, who did terrific take- offs on Messrs. Clark and Bacon, and Fred Wyatt, and Bob Thurston, who could have easily been mis- taken for James J. Anderson him- self. George Gould's interpretation of Dr. Chillrud would have done credit to any thespian. Jack Imrie did imitations of Dr. Tidtnarsh and Mr. Hicks; but his wrathful \a raking br.oadside,\' before he very Dotishly charged the crowd on a bicycle, brought the\ house down. When Robert McFalls made his impersonation of Profoessor Far- rell, I had to look al'ound and make sure I wasn't in math class. Howie Simmons did a good job as Joe Finkelstein; but his take-off on Dr. Preble was lost because the good doctor is not as · well known ,on the campus as are some other of our esteemed faculty who might have made excellent targets for the satire. With all the excellent material he had to work with I'm afraid Frank Brunning fell short on his Bronner play. Bill Ketz himself would have gotten more laughs just being his natural self, than did his impersonator Ed Le- May. • Although the entire program ran quite a bit over the usual time allotment, the student body made no move to leave until the last act was over. It is reported that sev· Permission for Beta Eta Upsilon Fraternity to ~ecome affiliated with a nation a I group, Beta Sigma Tau, was denied Tuesday by the Com- mittee on Student Affairs and Relations. On P1•obation The fraterniay has been on pro- bation since January, 1948, when it was recognized by the student affairs committee. The probation- ary period has been extended until February, 1949. The local group was organized at Union College in November 1947 with seven members. Since then five new members have been addd. Purpose of the organiz·ation, ac- cording to ,Clarence H. Walker, president, is to accommodate mem- bers of all racial and relegious groups. Walker, who has recently re- turned from a conference of inter- cultural fraternities at Chicago, said that to his knowledge Union College is the only school which has prevented or delayed affilia- tion of intercultural groups with national organizations. Beta Eta Upsilon is a social fraternity, ac- cording to Walker, and as such should have been permitted to affiliate with a national body. Precedent Set A spokesman for the student af- fairs committee reported that other social fraternities have been re- quired in past years to serve pro- bationary periods of a year or more, thereby setting a precedent in consideration of Beta Eta Up- silon's application. The student council last week had recommended affiliation of the fraternity with the national group. Kenneth Whalen, representing the student council at the committee meeting, failed to vote, making the disapproval of the fraternity's ap- plication unanimous. era! students, upon hearing the laughter from within the sacred Chapel walls, wandered inside, the reason for to know, but when they got there there were no chapel slips left; so they stayed anyhow. The moral? Please, gentlemen! Whether or not a fraternity has sufficient air of demesticity about it to live in a one-family residential zone is the present point of con- tention in the case of ,.Delta Chi vs. the City of Schenectady. Both sides are in ag·reement over the incidental delails and the case has been postponed until June 5, pend- ing the submission of a stipulation of facts to the Supreme Court. Though this will save considerable time, Bernard T. McGivern, house committee chairman of D Chi, commenting on the prolonged neg(ltiations, did not see any hope for a court settlement for at least a month. Leslie Mead, Corporation Counsel of Schenectady, also ex- pressed the view that if the state- ment of facts was agreed on with-, in the next two weeks, it might well be another long wait bef{)re Justice Best of the Supreme Court has given the matter full consid- eration. Dewey Preparing to Invade Campus With Highway; Students and Admi11istration Mobilize for Battle All work on the fraternity house has be·en suspended until a de- cision can be reached. A verdict favorable to the city · wouJd, allow the Corporation Counsel to ask for an injunction to oust the stu- dents. Patronize Our Advertisers ...... ....,... ............... \\ir... By ORAZIO OTTAVIANO ~ ·------------- was elected to the board last year. Tradition and the rural atmosphere evident on the campus Plans Not Final were endangered this past week when the State of New York While the plans are not final and made proposals for the building of Thruway through ·the before any action is taken on the city of Schenectady. ~ proposed highway construction the legislature at Albany will have to Through Pasture De Bello. The · group resolved in amend existing legislation, it was The plans in their premature their own name and in the name pointed out by Charles H. Sells, s.tages, call for the extension of of the Student Body of Union Col- state superintendent of public Nott Terrace through the south- lege that they \go on record as op- works. Already snags a.re appear- west corner of the college pasture. posing the construction of the pro- ing at the various official levels for, The proposed arterial route would posed arterial traffic route which by a statement City Manager Arlen be built behind the city library so would possibly be built in part ·St. Louis made to the local news- as to connect with South .Avenue, upon the present college pasture.'' papers, the city may ask for cer- which is to be widened, and from Mention was also made of the tain revision of the pJ.ans as they that point contim,Je in a straight already inadequate campus.\ The now stand. It was also brought out line to the Mohawk River. At the . group further resolved that the that a plan has been in existence river a bridge is to be constructed, council notify the Governor of the since the early 20s which calls for so state the plans, that will carry State of New York, Thomas E. a thruway connecting Gerling all northern traffic on route 50 out Dewey and Speaker of the House, street to Route 50 at Freeman's of the city. Oswald D. Heck '24, of the feelings Bridge. Council Acts of the students of Union College on Prexy Speaks The Student Council took im~ this matter. President Carter Davidson voiced mediate action at their May 18th Governor Dewey is a member of a few words in regard to the pro- meeting and proposed a resolu- the Board of Trustees of the col- posed thruway at Tuesday Chapel. tion that was presented by John lege, ex-officio, while Oswald Heck Concurring with the action of the student c o u n c i I the president opined that it's bad enough with the trucks going down Union street today. If the proposed highway were put through over the protest of the college community the presi- dent's front door would give him a vantage point from which to watch all the traffic going north. According to the plans the road that would go by the president's home would carrY only passenger cars, for all truclts are to be re- routed over other routes. Good News The plans have become coffee table discussion material and it was heard in Hale House on Wednesday that if the highway Were built it would provide .first class hitchhiking points to Skid- more and the north. It was learned that the proposed highway will not interfere with the Freshmen Dorm to be constructed in the pasture in the near future . ing Building on Friday afternoon and Saturday morning, June 11 and 12, and at the Hotel Van Curler Friday afternoon only. Class Day exercises will take place in Jack- son's Garden at 2:30 p.m .. Friday, followed later in the afternoon and evening by the annual meeting of the Union College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Bailey Hall, re- union class dinners, and a meeting of the Board of Trustees in the President's office. There will also be an informal alumni evening for wives and families in Old Chapel beginning at 8 p.m. Saturday morning will feature the annual Alumni Parade, in which the various reunion classes will compete for the Samuel P. McC!eilan <:181 Cup awarded to the class with the highest percentage of its members in the parade, the Courtland V. Anable '81 Cup awarded to the class with the largest number present, and the John C. Van Voast '87 Cup awarded to that class which has the best costume. At the conclusion of the procession, the Class of 1948 will be officially received into the alumni body. To Elect Trustee During the noon hour, the alumni will choose between Ru- dolph A. Schatzel, '21, William R. Adams, '28, and Edvvin L. Crosby, Jr., '29, for alumni trustee for the term 1948-1952; and a luncheon will be given by the College in the gymnasium. Baseball and lacrosse games between the varsity and alumni are planned for Saturday afternoon. A new feature, an all alumni and family dinner, is scheduled for 6 p.m. From 4:30 to 6, President and Mrs. Davidson will be at home to seniors, alumni faculty, and guests. The climax of the weekend pro- gram will be the Alumni Night informal dance in the gym, band concert, and fireworks, baring un forseen weathel\ conditions. Com mencement exercises will be held in Memorial Chapel at 10 a.m. on Sunday. Between 750 and 1000 alumni and guests are expected to attend Com mencement weekend this year. In recent years, Commencement has become more and more an annual family affair, and other classes be sides the regular reunion classes are planning to hold informal din ners. This year's program is under the general chairmanship of Henry B. Parker, Jr.. '34. Frederick G. Bascom, '18, will be toastmaster at the Saturday luncheon in the gym and Professor Frederick L. Bron ner, '23, will be speah:er for the reunion classes. Cynics Jail Old Soul Cambridge police apprehended a benevolent old soul last Tuesday when it was reported that he was giving $2 bills away to Harvard students. A disturbing-the-peace charge was lodged against John M. Shaw, a 60-year old Boylston farmer and he has been committed to the Westboro state mental hos- pital for 10 days observation. When apprehended he was found in a Harvard dorm busily shoving $2 bills under the doors of stu- dents' rooms. Questioned later Shaw said that he want~d to do something for the Harvard boys before they went on vacation. He also mentioned that he liked Har- vard boys. It was not learned if the Harvard boys liked him.

2 QI.nurnr l Open Letter to Rep. Celler FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1948 to the Editor As I see the situation, a party of . viduals want a homeland in some- ·over-enthusiastic exiles would• Uke one else's. backyard, let them fight · .to grab a bit of .real estate, son;J.e- for it with their own men and their J For Your Information Summer School (Democrat, N.Y.) · Dear Si-r: thing which is no novelty in the own blood.__ '!'he Government of the You have demanded on the floor modern world. If they succeed·, United Sta.fes, together with its of the house that the United States more power t<> them. (We didn't ~aci:lities -and armed forces, exists -exactly buy these United States fo·r the benefit of aH the people. Member Associated Col- legiate Press and di8ll•i- butor of the Collegiate Digest. National Adver- tising Representallve: !\a- tiona! Advert!siilg Service, Inc., College Pub II >'her~ Representative, 4~0 .lllmli- son Ave., N. Y. c: !'ub- Jished every Frida-y of the school year. EditorinJ Office,Washbum Hull, Union College. l'ub- li<'rttion Offi~e. The Oa- z~tte l'ress, 334 State St. Entered in the Sehener- tady Post Office a..;; S'\c- ond Class Mail Matter, suhscrivtlon 1 Oc a copy: $3 year; delivere<l any- \\ here in the United 8tH.'tPS. REGISTRATION-Monday, June 21 Silliman Hail MAN ACl I NU !lOA It II Students tal,ing surveying report at 2 p.m .. All other students report as followings---those whose last names begin with: A thru F at 9 A.M. G thru M at 10 A.M. N thru Z at 11 A.M. George 'l'. Ori~k ...................... . . ....... E<IIIl>r PAYMENT OF TUITION at the Comptroller's of!ico immediately fol-lowing registration. All ;;tutlPnts are required to pay tuition bill~ regard- less of whether thPy are paid. in cash or by pt<·:;enting veteran c1 edit :;lip:; bsued l.J:y the Vell't'a-n counselor. All students should r·eport to the administration building to pay their tui- tion after they have r·e~btered in Sillirmm Hall. Albel't ('Ol'bo .•• James )lurruy . James llaar ..... !I erbeort saxe .. Franeis Meehan l.a·m.bP~rt (~insberg· . ...... ~Ianaglng I:tlltor . .............. :\i<'W' Editor A .. ~u(•lu tt• l:d it.tJI' . ....... Spurt~ l·~tHful' .. ('lrt•ulnt.ion :\lllltugcr .. Hu,lnt-s~ :\Iunu~t·r Hom:s: 9-12; 1-30-4:30. What A bout This Field House? By C. L Hequembourg, '12 Alumni Gift Fund Chairman The Union College field house project is arousing so much in- terest that the a•lumni gift fund committee wishes to release back- ground facts ahead of the cam- paign schedule in order to provide information to you who wish to !mow how the field house fits into the long range d.evelopment of Union College. A Little History The field house project was pro- posed by a group of alumni in- terested in bettering our athletic facilities and discussed as a pro- ject by the Graduate Council. It was proposed as an objective for the Alumni Gift B'und, and is a pa1t of the whole-college develop- ment plan. 1n previous years the funds raised from a:nnual alumni giving have been largely devoted to scholarships and professorships, primarily of benefit to the academic side of the college. During the past three years ab.out $300,000 was raised for these purposes, through the alumni fund alone. All alumni contributions. obviously, ~are for the benefit of undergraduates. The field house project was en- dorsed by the Graduate Council, the rept·esentative corporate body of alumni. The project was ap- proved, as an alumni gift fund ob- jective, by the board of trustees of the college. It is an important pruje<'t whtch the alumni body feels i::;. within the means of the alumni to contribute to the college. When this project is completed, alumni support will go on in other fields. Pt·esident Davidson has e:xiplained the relationship of the field house to the total college program in the<\e words: Sta.tRm£mt by President Davidson \On the physical side, there are four at eas in which the college has been handicapped- housing, in- structional facilities, athletics, and heating plant. The last is being cared for thi,; summer by the erec- tion .of new boilers, the expense being covered by rehabilitation funds set aside during the war. Housing has been temporarily cared for by the government, but we have plans for a new dormitory, including a student union on the ground floor, to be built soon. This building, however, can produce in- come, and should be at least parti- ally self-liquidating. ''The chief need in instructional facilities is a new library building, including faculty of.fices and semi- nar rooms, and containing a fine arts wing fur exhibits and music. The cost of such a building, how- ever, was thought to be too large for the alumni gift fund to pro- vide-this must come from major benefactors, similar to Mr. Thomas Lamont at Harvard. Let's Raise Our Sights By John P. Letf:is, ~41 Instructor of Government The Concordiensis has asked me to turn out a foot of copy to lay alongside Mr. Hequcmbourg's 12 inches above. If the juxtaposi- tion gives promise of a debate; it promises mistakenly. It would be pretty inconsistent of me, as a matter of fact, to argue publicly with Mr. Hequembourg when only last Friday evening the two of us joined with a half-dozen other Graduate Council mem~rs and faculty-alumni in presenting a resolution dealing with this whole matter of fund-raising to the ex- ecutive committee of the council. Approving it, that Co m m t t e e passed the resolution along to the council which on Saturday morn- ing put it in the hands of the presi- dent for whatever disposititm he may wish to make of it. It is not my business to report the contents of that resolution, but I can indicate some of the think- ing of those who dt·afted it. Maybe it will help to put the \field house controversy\ in the constructive perspective where I think it be- longs. I have three poinU; to make. First, the Field House has, in the last year, been subject to a good bit of student, faculty, and-- to a lesser extent-alumni misin- terpretation. And it has not been those groups' fault entirely. It is the one build- ing project and the one funds-rais- ing program which has been called to our attention. Others have been mentioned occasionally ~but you have to heat things pretty deep into faculty and student skulls be- fore they lodge. We haven't been belabored sufficiently with the facts that the college is going ahead with an over-all construe- Iron and improvement program, that it is gathering money through otht>r channels than the Alumni Gift Fund, that the field house fund is not intended to be comparable to the capital drives underway else- where, and that the field house is going to amount to considerably more than a roof suspended over two lacrosse nets. Rather than contest Mr. Hequembourg's piece, then, I herald it. We should have had more like it nine months ago. Second, the College needs to keep a constant upward pressure on its l'ights educationally and hence financially. Nor is the need now simply the old perennial one for some more money. Il is a need for a great deal more money and it is urgent. It is thrust upon us by the new state university program. If Union is to compete successfully in the new market, it's got to have a quality product. It's got to have better facilities of all sorts, better \The one field farthest behind the time\ is athletics -therefore the field house ti'eea s the perfect gift from the alumni. \But you ask, doesn't the col- lege need money for schola:rships, loans, professorships? D u r i n g Pres ide n t Fox's administration great efforts wet'e put on estab- lishing scholarship and loan funds, so that today Union is well pro- vided in this particular. The Board of Trustees has made end.owed pro- fessorships their own special pro- ject-the Frank Bailey Professor- ship of Greek and the new Thomas Lamont Professorship of Litera- tur.e are evidence of .our advance in this direction,\ A Summary The college has spent funds totaling $306,000 on additions and major improvements to its build- ings during the past three years. It has added $254,000 to its scholar- ship and student aid funds since 1945, and has been given $350,000 for ·pr.ofessorships during the same period. Funds totaling more than half a million will be needed for the new dormitory .. A program is being planned to develop special financial support for a new library and arts building to cost in the neighborhood of a million dollars. The alumni body has dedicated itself to the project of providing a field house as part of this over- all building pattern. more personalized instruction. It's got to be able to go in to the first class graduate schools and bid on even terms for their first class men-a thing which my very limited observation would indicate we cannot consistently do now. Out standing financial management has, in recent ye·ars, made the col- lege 'one of the six best privately endowed men's colleges of our type and size.' but the fact remains that most of the rest of that half- dozen face the prospect of the New York State public college system at a more comfortable range. Now all of this does not, to my mind, make a necessity of a bally- hooed capital drive, one bomb-shell kiss-the-girls-in-the-booth-type cam- paign. The word I have is that the trustees and the ·administration are leaning toward an ambitious but unsensational, continuing, system- atic, professionally staffed funds- raising artd exj)ertdltilr'e-plannirtg program. That makes good sense to me. But, however it's done, the sights do need boosting. Third, the students, the faculty, the alumni-all the constituent groups of the College-ought to be active and formal participants in an improvement program, both on it planning and its revenue sides. We'd lilre it, it should make for a more comprehensive, co-ordin- ated coverage of sources and needs, and it would then be our responsi- bility to know what's going on. Adieu et • me rei beau coups By Jean Cotillion My thanks go to the Administra· tion which manages with the Am- erican efficiency th-e red tape in- herent to. any administration. Everybody there has been kind in helping me to solve the questions and problems which have a risen during my stay at Union. My thanks go to the prof-essors for their teaching. which helped me to understand the U. S. 1 was seeing with my eyes. Thanks. too, f-or their effort in deciphering my handwriting and in answeting the questions I addt\essed them in a broken; English. My thanks go to the Student body. 1 picked up most of the English I know on this campus and learning to thin!{ in another languag-e than your own is indeed a great experience. I owe this to all of you: you che-cl{ed me; you helped me. And through you all my thanks go to your country. Having al- ready lived and· traveled in. many parts of the United States I am able to understand it better, After twenty months here 1 feel some- what the things you have been accustomed to since your c·hiJd- hood; what you called the Ameri- can way of life. I shall endeavor to be }'OUr ambassador by telling what I saw and learned hel\e. I shall try to make my people under- stand your ways of living your in- stitutions and, whenever i am con- vinced. I will try to justify your. many \volte face\ moves in inter- national politics. Having had the ptlvilege to spend three terms in an American College, I am an ardent believer in the exchange of students be- tween countries. I see there a foundation for b-etter understand- ing between people and the pre- vention of :war. If newspapers' foreign correspondents were ob- liged to spend two years in a par- ticular country before writing about it, many misunderstanding~. the result of the playing up and the ex:ploitation of things '!differ- ent than back home,\ would be avoided. r am proud of the fact that there was never a war between France and the United States and that the birth of your country was in- timately associated with the great; duce the French Revolution a few' current of ideas which was to pro- years later. I take pleasure in saying that if any Union man happens to pass some -time in France I should like to invit·e him to my home. Navy be used to bri·ng the govern- f ment Qf Lebanon to terms. When rom the India:ns either, but we RAYMOND A. McCOY, never called them fascist aggres- Disgusted Democrat. did our navy become the errandboy h' f t t f . t t ? F sors, w 1le we pumped hot lead \Vhew! ! (Ed. Note.) or an ups ar mergn s a e · or into their -bellies.) When the h-ouse years now the Russian Terror has committee returned from Palestine Dear Sir: been murdering Christians in the in 1945 and urged that we mind our The Scout Service Club publicly territory over which it has exer- own business, you and Rep, Sa!b- expresses its gratitud·e to those ~i.-ed control. and their relatives in· bath screamed persecution and members of the faculty and the your congres\'ional district heard' -discrimination until the members of student body who aid'ed the club not :;o much as a -peep of protest, that committee feared for their in its successful campa-ign to es- much less of \salvos from the t bl' h h t f A p · political lives. Now that our,(your) a IS a c ap er o lpha ht fleet.\ The silence among the blundering .J.nterference with British 0m€ga on campus. We would like \Liberals\ in Washington could be internal problems has reached u 9 to thank Mr. Cacner, the local Boy heard for rr.iles. S · t t' d h' logical conclusion, you ,have called cou execu JVe, an · IS asso-ciates How times ha\'e changed! Israel's upon the American Government .to .for their support and encourage- Musco\\·trained and equipped Irgun initiate steps leading to a shooting ment. We appreciate the attituc;ie finds itself losing its pants to the. war. of those me.mbers of the faculty \fascist. reactionary, British-1m,.. Wa.sn't .one war enough for you?. who signed our petitions and sup- perialistic and capitaliHti(' arabs.\ Do Christians have to kill Moslems ported QUr drive and those mem- So you call for American interven- so that the Israeli can turn. Jeru- hers of the alumni who aided us. tion. You who have re·peatedly salem into a touri 9 t resort? I un- The le'aders of the various student urged the o•eparation of church and derstand that t:he navy has ve-: associations helped tremendously state now ad\·anc€ the cause of a cruiting fa,cilities in Washington. by backing our campaign, Lastly religious organization to the point If you're so anxious to train guns there is a small group within our of driving the nation into waL The ·on the Arabs, why not enlist? Quite organization who from the begin- Israeli m.ust be considered either a few ·Jads have put their years ning have worked hard, first to as . a. na t10n, or as members of a· into the naval service, but they are form ·a club and then to turn that r~hg10us sect. If t~ey a~e a na- not so well briefed as the experts club into a fraternity. tron, ar\'! you not bemg drsloya! to and the speech-makers who occupy The club as ·a whole realizes that your awn government by advocat- the armchairs. If the people who the most effective means it has of ing war in ~heir behau; On the ta.Jk so much about rights want to expressing its thanks is through other hand, rf you co_n~1der them shoot .off g·uns as much as they the acts it performs in the future. to be members of a re!rg10us group, like to shoot off their :mouths PETER M. KELLY', how can you ask the congress to there are ships leaving for the Nea;. President, Scout Service Club. violate the Bill Qf Rights, by acting East every day. But please don't Raymond McCoy has been in. t~e interest of a .religious ask the followers of a murdered awarded the carton of Chester- mmol'lty to the great detnment of Christ to assist at the desecration fields for the .best letter submitted the other religious bodies in the of the Holy City. If certain indi- to the Concordien.sis this month. nation, since -in any event they'll supply the largest part .of the troops for your war. Parochial school pupils are thrown off public NOTT RESTAUR A!NT school .buses and rel!gious teaching . l\ti GOOD SHOES FO.R STUDENTS and FACULTY is fol'bid.den during school hours. How can you justify a naval broad- · side in the name of a minority religion? · MILK VItamin D Homogenized Amsterdam Dairy Schenectady, N. Y. PHONE 6·2351 No Finer Place to Eat Try Us On Your Next Date * PELOP'S 438 STATE ST. (Near Proctor's) SERVING UNION'S MEN FOR YEARS See Your Own Agent on the Campus for Complete Head to Foot Service UNITED CLEANERS TAILORS Phone 4-5676 114 STATE Near FERRY GUERRA'S PHARMACY Fountain Prescriptions Sundries 600 Union St. Cor. Barrett St. and BAR • Right Outside Green Gate WINES - LIQUORS and BEER We Need Your Head In Our Business l Patton .& Hall X-RAY FITTING 245 STATE ST.-since For Car Troubles See a UNION MAN William Ho Plath I 509 UNION STREET i I A Place Where J 601 Union Street L::_:_:~ AUTO SERVICE I SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 147 JAY STREET FOR ALL YOUR GIFT NEEDS ·Hiram J. McKain Co. 306 Union Street Phone 4~4448 Lawn Seeds - Insecticides Fertilizers WE KNOW YOU WILL .ALWAYS REMEMBER THE JAY JEWELRY CO. HEADQUARTERS Fe,. WATCHES and JEWELRY Repairing and Engra.ving Pens t:~~nd the Finest Gifts Corner State· and Cenfor Sts.

28, 1948 in some- them fight and their of the with its exists people. McCOY, publicly to those y and the the club to es- Phi would like local Boy assodates encourage- attitude faculty s and sup- mem- aided us. student gn, Lastly within our the begin- first to turn that that s it has of is through the future. KELLY, rvice Club. been f Chester- submitted month. FO.R all FRIDAY, MAY 28,,1948 3 Ketzmen End ~~~~------~----~------~--~--~------------------------------~--------------- Trackmen Season Undefeated Record Breaker- Unvanquished Dutchmen Cop 9-wav R:P I Me.et Friday afterngon the· · Union Track Team steam-. rolled over the Rochester·. Squad 96-30 for their fifth· straight victmy in the.· final dual meet of the sea- son, and thus compiled an undefeated record. . This is the Ga-rnet's first· unblemished record since 1936 when the record was al- SG five victories and no l0sses. High Scorer Dutchmen Override Engineers The <;ai'm•t varsitr came out on the long end of the .~core ngain.st nrr teams lust weekend L!y tutuling 8;) points ;1.gain;.;t 8:31:! points for the ripponents. Cnion won the ba,;eball gmne and the first ItPI Invitational Track 1\.leet wll ile losing the lacro:::;se fray tn an l'Xceptionally strong Olympic-bound aggregation. The following day the Dutch· . The Cindermen men continued on their win- -~-~~~:K~e~n~Wl~l~al~e::n~-------------==--======-------------;----=-===-:::_::__ _ _: _____ ~------------ ning ways by c0pping the · 1 :~~fin~nrf~Y.~n~if~d~~;~= Stickme.n Tac:kle Co gate Here T a morrow. lm],I ov, <I l>itting J,y the team as :1 wl ole and exct·llent pitching by :McQuade gan• the Garnet an im- <Continueu on Page 4) ester, Champlain, Hartwick, ~::~o State Teaehers, and Lawrencemen End With Hamilton, Colgate L·OOSE ENDS Rochester T1·ounced by In winning over the Rochester h . Garnet Eve.ns Up ;nraarc!~e~2 o~~e ofuf~~n14 c;:~~e~~~.n_e Grant Higbl:ig· tS N t th THAN.KS • • • p 8 0 points. In the five dual rnee s IS Dear Mr. Wittner: Dow.nl·ng R· I - HERB SAXE season the Dutchmen have gar~ G·a·r .. net ... Defen·se nered '56 first places in the 70 For the students of Hens- events. The Garnet :led all the sellU'>r Polytechnic Institute, I And .A.I ba ny 11-3 way and their advantage was E • want to thank you for yom· nev~r threatened. Whalen and. Aga•·nst nglneers · considerations· at the recent Ia- Personeous were the high .point- · · · · : · : · · crosse game between our school After swamping the New York geters wi'th ten apiece. teanrs. Both the sale of booster State Teachers of Albany by 11-3 Whalen took the shot put event The last intercollegiate competi- buttons an d the collection and evening up its season record with a heave of 46 feet 7¥.: inches tion for Coach Fred Wyatt's !a- · added to the Lacrosse Fund and at 6-6 Wednesday in the home and the discus· a 124 foot 76 inch crossers this season will place the.. added to the publicity that this finale, the Garnet baseball squad toss. Personeous ,grabbed first place Garnet against the Red Raiders of fund drive is getting. will finish up its season on the in .the 100 yard and the 220 yard Colgate tomorrow afternoon on The fund has gl'Own to con- l'oad this weekend. This afternoon dashes. Along with the . track. Library Field, The final action for: siderable -size and is still going the Dutchmen oppose Colgate Uni- team's undefeated recoriL m the the stickmen is on June 12th when up. With the enth·e trip to be versity at Hamilton, and tomorrow five dual meets, four members of the Alumni return to do battle with financed by funds obtained out- they will travel to Clinton to en- the squad also completed the sea. their brother Dutchmen. side the student activities fee gage the rival Continentals of f t d b mem ber of the' there ·lS' no doubt in my mind c 11 son unde ea e · Y a · · Colgate has notched up three, · Hamilton o ege. opposing team in several events. wins in seven starts thus far this.' about the reception given to Phil McQuade, who pitched his They are: Whalen in the shot put, season with victories over Hamil- every contribution, btg and third shutout of the season last Westlund in the javelin, and Cui-· S h'I small, by the student body. Saturday in blanking R.P.I. 8-0, Ver an d Wright in the mile and, ton, Cortland, and ampson, w 1 e, A wish fol' the future: may d dropping matches to Penn State,· will probably draw the moun as- half mile runs. Syracuse, R. P. I. and Cornell. The'. our rivalry continue in the best . signment against the Red Raiders. interests and sportsmanship of L th D t h a McQueen Stars at R.P.I. Raiders are strongly boosted bY.. ast season e u c men won each school as it has in the 3 o · t th c 1 t · e 'In copping the R.P.I. Invitational the addition of All-American \Gal- . · v1c ory over e o ga e nm , Meet the Dutchmen scored. 76 loping\ Gallaway, who has proven · past. and they will be out to repeat. The point~ whi'ch bettered R.P.I.'s total his worth on the field for the Sincerely yours, first contest against Hamilton was by 5¥.: markers. Alfred won the visitors. JAMES ELMORE, rained out, t Th President of the Union M Q d R t tf-ird spot with 27 coun ers. e The Garnet has suffered from.· c ua e epea s · ~maining entrants placed as fol- the loss of Brigham who was in- When McQuade shut out the 'lows: Rochester was fourth with jured during the University of ·G If ' D 2 rival Engin€ers from Troy last 22¥.:.; Champlain took fifth with 19; Virginia fray -here two weeks ago. 0 ers OWn : Saturday it was the second time the sixth spot was won by Hart- Coach Wyatt reports that Brigham this season that he had performed wick with 6; Osweg;o State Teach- will be out of action for the re- To Mee·+ Hamilton this feat. The first victory was a ers, with only 4 points, placed. mrunder of the season. 3-0 shutout at Troy. In allowing seventh; and Siena failed to score Probable line-up for tomorrow's Coxes' choppers managed to drop Rensselaer only five hits, McQuade and thus garnered undisputed last game places Grant or Girard in, two contests last weekend in the went the full nine innings and was plaBcoeb. McQueen led the Garnet the goal; Paul, Brady, and ~lynn; north country. They bowed to never in trouble. or Furlong on defense; Qumlan, The big third inning decided the scoring by snagging first place in R t d Markes at midfield· and •Clarkson on the Potsdam Marshes game for Union, as the Lawrence- the 120 yard. high hurdles and in. B~:r~,anGeorge, and Ketchu~ on ·6-3 and were olitswung 3'h-5 1 h at men went on a batting spree and the 220 yard low hurdles. Other. attack. All of the 30 man squad 'the .St. Lawrence Country Club. scored six runs on five hits and an stellar performances were turn.ed are expected to see action for the: At Potsdam Behan and McCoy error. Bllly Eade started things by Whalen, Culver,. and Wright.· G t off by drawing a walk, and moved Whale n won the shot put with a arne · · picked up two points, while Swan E · Wi d B k dd d th th L to third on Truman Rice's single. heave of 47 feet 9 inches, and he ngmeers m -an · as ous a e e o er. · ow d d · th discus . . man for the day was McCoy with Carl Armstrong then drove Eade THE DOG IN THE MANGER Last Saturday was a Red Letter Day for all Dutchmen. In meet- ing the Cherry and White from RPI in three contests the Garnet took two of the major tilts from the Engineers for a statistical vic· tory. More important, however, was the attitude displayed by the Dutchmen in their \heyday.\ \'\'in- ning both th€ track meet and the baseball game from the \Wizards of the Slip-sticks,\ and dropping the lacrosse game to a very su- perior Cherry and White squad, the Unionmen displayed a level of :sportsmanship toward which the visitors from Troy might well strive. At the baseball game, which was decidedly a Garnet victory, th2re was none of the derisive cheering which is usually prevalent. Good plays were cheered, regardless of who made them. The credit for this must go to the attending Dutchmen. Unfortunately the same did not hold true for the lac1·osse game. As we all expected the Cherry and White fielded one of the best teams .that the \noggin-knockel'S\ were to meet this season. Again iJ1 keeping with expectations,. one of the larg- est crowds in Union lacrosse his- tory turned out to watch the En- gineers turn the Dutchmen back in a decisive victory. I watched that game for better than two quarters and I have never seen a group of more vitriolic victors in all my life. The En- gineers were ahead 12 to 0 when Union managed to make its lone also pla,ce secon m e · ~o~ndmg out an ei?ht;en game: a soggy 78 . On the St. Lawrence horne with his single to left. An Wright's 2:04 in the half mile run w~nnmg streak, the VlsitnJ,g R.P._:r ... links 'the hackers juggled the bat-. RPI error then allowed Bob Bart- ~!:oen~in;-nfir~:l:~~a~~n~e ~~~~:~ stwkmen proved .their Olyrnpw •ting order but failed to do much lett to fill the bases. Hal Enstice, RPI- All H H POU E wo nftrst place in the mile run style on L!br.ary Field last Satur- better. The individual matches . making his last appearance against ~ehr~t, lls .•..••. , •.. ·l 0 1 3 6 o with a time of 4:35.7, and he fol- hd. fgYhlyby sp\~~:g g~m~ar~ro!'u~~~ w~re won by ~ehan. and Frost the Engineers, thenAls iWngledd driv- A'~rl~~.e~f ~r.::;:;::::: ~ ~ ~ ~ g g d · w · ht · th half mi'le V\lth McCoy halving ·!11s man for a i-ng hoine two runs. · a e came Lauzon, cf ..••••••••• 1 o o 2 o o lowe ng . m e - · · · G · t 13 1 D-- · •·t th oh sided ·• s · 1 t d f arne , \ . esp1 e e e h If · t Th odd point was up next and hit one of his long chic 1tell, c .......... i o o 2 1 o These four entrants accoun e or score, the game was not lacking. ~ a pon;t · e · triples to center field scoring z-Canduer · · ·· ·· · ·· ·· 1 O 0 0 ·o o 39 points for Union. The Ketzmen for- actl'on, and the 3000 spectators. · p1cked up m the _best ball contests. Belgie, If ••.•••.•...• o o o o o o h 15 ft t B h d B k I S d Ens. tice. John Ch_aprnan completed ·Schor1e lb 3 0 1 7 o 1 carried off 7 out 0 ft e rs that crowded Library Field were e an an as ous p us wan an · the Union rampage by singling Kim bail, rf :::::::::: 3 o o 2 o o place points ancL 6 second slots. A. well rewarded. The first frame. McCoy fo~nd themselves even home Wade. The Dutchmen man- McCombs, 2b ........ 3 o 2 2 o o Personeous won the 100 yard dash ended with the Engineers bol;!ncing after the eighteen holes. aged to push across two more runs Byrnes, 3b . . . . . . . . . . o o o 1 0 o crossing the line in a fast 10.2. ~head to a 5-0 lead. During the The squad has two challenges M Zimo, 3b ............. 3 o o 2 2 0 W tl d th · r event ~ before the contest ended, while · c- Huie, p ••••••••.•• , •• 0 0 o o 1 o es un won e Jave m second perlod, the visitors added left. They .meet R.P.I. ~n the Troy Quade was baffing the Cherry and Terlmne, ll · • · · · · · · · · · 1 () 0 0 1 0 with a toss of 148 feet 5% inches. two more tallys, while the Garnet layout Fr 1 day, and JOurney to White batters. zz-Robinson .......... 1 o o 0 o 0 The main reason for the cinder- were scoreless. The third quarter Hamilton for a breather on Satur- Flad, P •••.••••.• , ••. 0 0 li o o o men's success lies in the fact ~hat gave the Instituters one more day. Carsky Downs Teachers ,.i:~~a;~nd~d· ·a~i. fo~· 3Jel~ie 5 i~4 n1i~th~ the squad is well-rounded. his counter, and the final onsl·aught in ---01---- Ed- Carsky, pitching his first full zz-Grounded out for Hule in eighth. is shown by noting that 22 men t f 1 fi game of the season Wednesday Unlon- AB R H PO A E Scored' and 16 ~r them registered the closing minu es o pay n-, F h L E d 1 1 3 4 o o 10 Pol ·nts or bett.ver. . ished off the scoring with :(lve· J'OS QC:rOSSerS against the Teachers from Albany, a e, c • · · · · • · · · ·· ·· I h 'l B d the had a no-hit no-run ball game to Hice, 2 b · • · · • • • • · • · · • 4 1 1 7 3 0 Mond·ay afternoon 16 members goa s, w r e ., arry manage F\ • h t M\ddl b Armstrong, 3b ....... 4 2 2 1 1 o lone Unl 'on mark~r lftiS Cl I e ury his credit until the ninth inning, Bartlett, ss . ' ........ 4 1 1 4 4 0 Of the track team Were awarded a ~ · · E t' f G l . B'll G t t ed · a· ·when the visitors managed to nick • ns rce, c ...•....... 4 1 1 2 o o block \U\ \·or the1'r efforts 1'n the oa le 1 ran urn rn Th~ Garnet F1·eshmen Lacrosse ·Meehan rf o· 0 o u o o L' t 11 · b f th D t h n but ~ him for three hits to spoil his day. • ' · · · · · · · · · · · '48 season. They are as follows: s e ar JO or e u c me ' team dropped a hard fought 8-3 Wade, rf · · · · • · · · · · · · 4 1 1 O 0 0 H th odds were against him Carsky was in his best form of the McQuade, p •.•••.• , , , 3 o o o 1 o Belanger, Culver, Garlock, agar, · Oe'C h' h · f th~· decision to the R.P,I. Neophytes season and struck out s 1 ·x oppos Chapman, 1b ........ 1 0 2 9 1 1 L wt MCQueen Ml 'lford A onnor w<as rg· scorer or ~ S t d . h Sunday the · • - H h I' lf a on, ' ' ' E · 'th thr e goal with a ur ay • ow ever, ' ing batters while giving up only oc u 1' • • • • • • • • • • 3 1 0 0 0 0 Personeous, Simmons, Wallington, ~gmeers Wl . e ~t t ' freshmen, with the aid of four . three walks. Totals , . , , .. , ...... 34 8 11 27 10 1 Westlund, Whalen, Williamson, DICk Powell followmg up WI h wo• v:arsity players, whitewashed the The contest was sloppy baseball \Albany2-b AB RO H PO A E W · ht Th t do Th tallys t '\unroe ........... 3 1 8 4 o ng , urs on, an yer. ree · Middlebury J. V.'s by a 5-0 coun • all the way through, and the Dutch- Englehart, 3b .... , ... 3 1 1 2 5 3 other members .of the squad Kee- at Middlebury, in the season's final men managed to steal 13 bases and George, cf ......... , . 4 o o o o 0 vel~ Loomis, and Dvorscak were 22, Wallington - 20, Simmons - contest. to collect 13 hits off of te-acher Warden, 1b , ...... , ... 3 1 o 3 o o d d .A:UA T t 16\ B 1 Glenday, rf ........... 0 1 o 1 o o awar e an · ' 17 5/6, hurs on- 7<~., .e anger- A Troy the· frosh got off to a Hank Farley, Duffus, ss ............ 2 0 0 2 4 0 Point Sum:mades 14, Oyer-10¥.:, Dvorscak-B, Kee- slow start and fell behind 4-0 at Billy Ead€, the Union catcher, Kaehn, If · · · · · · · · · · · · · 3 0 ° 3 0 0 The following is a point sum- mary of the season. A. Personeous won the high scorer's laurel with· 58 markers. He was followed by: Whalen-55, McQueen-54, Culver -50'\i, Wright..-46Yt,, Williamson- 28% Lawton-26, Hagar-26, West- lund-23, Milford-22¥.:, Garlock- /Pictures of Spring athletic teams that w e r e officially scheduled to be taken this week will be talmn a,t 5 p.m. on Tues• . · day, Jlllle 1, ver- 6'\i, Loomis- 6 • Larkin- 3 • the .close of the ·first. period. From· was forced from the game in the· z-McDonald · · · · · ·' · · · 1 0 1 0 0 0 B · ht 2 G p rsoneous 1 Dickson, rf ......•..•. 3 0 0 2 0 0 l'lg man- • · e · - · then on the freshm€n \noggin- fourth inning when he was hurt on zz-Marzello . , , ....... o o 0 0 o o Garnet at New YO'l'k : knockers\ held their own, but were a play at home plate. Third base- Stevenson, c · · · · · · · · · · 1 0 0 0 0 0 pI d 0 1 A t t k h' Farley, p ............. 3 0 0 0 0 0 Next Saturday Whalen, Wright, unable to overcome the R ... a - man ar rms rong oo 1s Toials ............. 25 3 3 21 13 3 and Culver will attend the IC~.A. vantage. Against Middlebury the place, and did a fine job of filling z-Singled for Dickson in 9th. Meet l ·n Ne·w· York. Whalen w 1 11 combined squad scored. 2 goals in in behind the plate. zz-Walked for Stevenson in 8th. t ' C C E ' B b Union- AB R H PO A E attempt to qualify in the shot put .the initial period; after which he1r . o- aptains Hal nstlce and o Eade, 0 , •••••••••••••• 2 0 1 2 0 1 on Friday afternoon. Culver will lead was never threatened. Glen Bartlett poled the best hits of the Meehan, 3 b ........ , .. 2 o 1 1 3 o . run in the 880 yard trials on Fri- Tomlins, who was assisted by ·day, as the former collected a Rice, 2b . , . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 o 1 3 2 o day afternoon, and Wright will run George Hawks, did a superb job· single and a double, and the latter Armstrong, 3b, c ...... 4 1 2 5 3 0 the mi 'Ie 1'n the finals wh1'ch are to .coaching the frosh in a voluntary hit a single and a long ground rule 'Bartlett, ss .......... · 3 2 2 3 4 0 . Enstice, cf , ••••••.••• 5 2 2 1 0 1 be held on Saturday afternoon. • capacity. Although the Garnet triple, Ed Carsky also helped to Young, rf , , ..•... , .• , 2 2 1 o o o Union College can be mighty proud. Freshmen only posted a 1-3 record, increase his margin of victory by .Chapman, lb ......... 3 2 1 10 0 2 tally in the fourth quarter. The yelping and yapping which came from the RPI stands after this event were deafening. \Give the referee a letter. He's helping Union.\ \What a bunch of scabs at Union.\ These are typical of the more printable remarks that ensued from the Cherry and White stands. Two or three qf us were lmock- ing otii'st·h·es out on•r the one Union ·goal. Unfnrtunatl\ly we were shnding in fl•ont of the RPI stands and some aggrl\Ssivo Troy l'Ooter aceostl\d us. \V\.'hat are you guys ehl\ering about? \Ve're still ahead by eleven points.'' \Yeah we know it; but it's a moral victory for us,\ Wl\ replied, \after all you're headed for the OI;pnpics.\ \V\.\hat are you talking about, moral victory.\ \E one Union goal down here is one rnol'e than RPI got at the baseball game.\ 'So what? You guys only made eight up there and we've made Ulirtel\n down here.\ -By this time the Enginee1•s had scored another goal to malte it 13-1. \'rl\ were fm·ced to mention the fact that this was the second time we had shut the RPI nine out, That did it. The RPI rooter \blew his stack.\ The letter from the RPI presi- dent of the Student Union, which appears elsewhere on this page, is proof that Union students did their part. I thinli thnt next Fall's football game will be an ideal testing ground for improved relationships with RPI. If at this time there is no apparent improwment of feel-. ing, r sinepr·£'ly hP!iC've that aU athletic competition with RPI should cease. Sportsmnnship cannot be a one sided affair. There has got to be a certain amount of give and take on both sides of the fence. The Dutchmen have made the first move. Just because this first game was such a one sided affair, let's not fly off the handle ourselves. Let's not lower ourselves to RPI's level. If we can do nothing else, we can prove we are right. Don't take me wrong though. When I say drop the aspersions I don't nlf>an drop the spirit. Just learn to discriminate between sportsmanship and spirit. Swimming coach Ray Mullane announct>s that application for !'(\appointment as Water Safety Instructor has been made by Donald H. Kl\tclmm Bernard L. O'Connell, Josl\ph M. Tofel, , Robert A. B1•ooks, and Clifford C. Meldrum, Jr. Those students who recently pasSl\d the Amt>riean Red Cross Senior Life Saving and . Water Safl\ty examinations are Alan Doyle, MacDonald Sardeson, Robert T. Opie, John Berbert, Richard B. Mitchell, Frank Rapant, David Besst>rer, A1•t Swenson, David Harpet·, Morton V. Madison, Stanley Szabmnsld, Jr., Frank B. Wallier II, .James I\ertt>ficli, Daniel W. MPyerson, of the record compiled by th. e '48 much valuable experience was socking out a double in the eighth Hochull, If · · • • · • · • · • • 2 2 1 1 0 0 · Carslty, p , , • , ••••••.• 3 0 1 1 2 0 Garnet Track Team. · galn~d by the team. inning. 'l'otals • , . , , , , . , .... 32 11 13 27 H 4 1-------·----------l and Vel'lle L. Whalen.

,, ' ')I . i l. '. 4 Union vs. RPI I 1 (Continued from Page 8) ntramura; s pressive 8-0 win over the Troymen. · :...... __ In their first meeting this season with RPI, Union won 3-0. In the fi rst RPI Invitational Track M€et in which eight upstate colleges competed, an undefeated Union team scored in every event except the 220-yard dash to win the meet with 76 points. Closest to the Garnet was RPI with 70% point.s. Whale and McQueen ca·r- ried away tbe top honors for the Garnet. Victory ill this meet for the Garnet g:av.e RPI its second set-back in three years, the first coming a few weeks ago when Union beat them by a big margin. The only disaster of the weekend tilts with RPI came in the varsity lacrosse game which RPI copped 13-1. Library Field was packed with the biggest crowd of the sea- son in spite of the cold wind. Union's defensive power loomed in the second and third quarters when the strong RPI squad shoved across only 3 of their 13 goals. Many Union men feel that our lone goal was a moral victory against a school that considers lacrosse a major sport and is at present fi-eld- ing an Olympic-bound team. WRUC Mfair (Continued from page 1) in the summer heat on the part .of the station crew to string up the new wires, but they plan to r<()com- mence activities on the first day of the arrival of students to the cam- pus next fall. FERRO'S RESTAURANT Good Food & Beverages PHONE 6-9554 1115 BARRITT STRIIT Softball Standlngs American League Won Lost Pet.· Chi Psi .. .. .. .. .. • . . .. 6 0 1.000 Phi Delta '.rheta . • . . . 4 1 .800 Phi Sigma Kappa . . . . 1 2 .333 Indians • .. .. .. .. .. • • .. 1 2 .333 Rebels .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 2 .000 Beta Eta Upsilon . . . . 0 4 .000 National League Won Lost Kap!Ja Sigma .... .... •1 1 Kappa Nu . .. • . .. . . .. 4 1 Alpha Delta Phi . . . . . 2 2 Hot a Theta Pi . . . . . . . 2 3 ASCI<' . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . 1 3 Hamblers .. .. .... .. .. • 0 3 Uultod League Pet. .800 .800 .500 .400 .250 .000 Won Lost Pet. Phi ·Gamma Delta . . . . 4 0 1.000 Phi Sigma Delta . . . . . 3 1 • 750 Delta Up,ilon . . . . . . . . 3 2 .600 Sigma Chi . . . . . . . . . . . • I 3 .250 Be1tc'h Combers . . . . . . 0 2 .000 ;);ight Owls . . . . . . . . . . 0 3 .000 Eastern League Won Lost Snerzigs . . . . . . . . . . • . . • 4 0 Delta !'hi . . . . . . . . . .. • 2 I P:-~i l~}ll\ilon • . • . • . • .. • !! lllack ~·teet . . . .. .. .. I !Jaffotlils . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Western Leag·ue Won Lost Cal verts .. , . . . . . . . . . . . 4 o KapJl<l Alpha . . . . • . . • 1 Delta Chi . . . .. . .... . • 1 Theta Ill• Ita Chi ..... . ::ligma Phi ....•..•..• Pet. 1.000 .·666 .500 .250 .000 Pet. 1.000 .666 .500 .000 .000 FRENCH Cleaners and Dyers 129 JAY STREET • \Reliable Service .. • Phone 6-4295 r GAZETTE PRESS Printers COLONIAL ICE CREAM CO. Ice Cream at Its Best 134 Mohawk Avenue Phono 6-3443 Scotia for your trip HOME! Those mighty-low Greyhound fares will give a welcome boost to your ailing year-end budget ••• and you'll be sure to like Grey- hound's comfort, convenience, dependability! GREYHOUND TERMINAL 26 ERIE BLVD., PHONE 6·3415 SCHENECTADY SUMARA .. &yArrow Arroiv's n·ew Sumara sport shirt is just about the s·ilkiest, coolest, handsomest sport shirt we have ever seen for the col· lege man, Absolutely wash• able, lt this smartly tailored spun ray• on shirt comes in sho1·t and long sleeves and a vari• ety of cool colors, topped hy the nonpareil Arrow collar. Come in today and select one of these beauties for yourself. Long sleeves, $4-.50. Short sleeves, $4.00. • Sanforset-labele~will not shrink or stretch out of shape I NUSBAUM'S --fih~ AI?ROW SPORTS SHIRTS-_. .- ..... ·.·:·;·.- ....... - .•. - .. -;<.·.·.· .. ·{··· Have you made up your mind on what you'll do when you graduate this June? If not, consider the opportunity available to you in the Aviation Cadets. Few jobs anywhere can match this offer. When you win your wings and a Second Lieu- tenant's commission, you're paid as high as $336 per month to start. The training you get before and after you're commissioned is recognized as the world's finest- and it equips you for a well-paid lifetime career in military or commercial aviation. You're eligible for appointment to the Cadets if you're single, between 20 and 26 1;2 years old, and have completed at least one-half the require- FRIDAY, MAY 28, 1948 Having run out of ordinary adjectives • • • ~· WE ASKED A POET! to describe the new Arrow 11 Sumara 11 sport shirt And he said: 1. \Cool as the frost on a frosty glass;\ 2. \Light as a hummingbird's footsteps.\ 3. \Washable as a baby beaver,\ 4. \Handso~e as a new golf ball.\ e , • Then he rushed out and bought one! I Sumara is made of silky spun rayon, light yet rugged, comes in short and long sleeves and is unconditionally washable. See your Arrow dealer for an Arrow Snmnra today! ARROW SHIRTS and TIES UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS ments for a degree from an accredited college or university (or pass an equivalent examination). Talk the program over with men in your class who have been Aviation Cadets. And for full details, ask at your nearest U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Station. Why not drop in today and discuss it? U. S. Army and U. S. Air Force Recruiting Service WIN YOUR WINGS 'WITH THE 'AVIATION CADETS \ \