THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., NovEMBER, 1877. No. r. LITERARY. A REVERY. Is matter all? Goe~ soul for naught? Do all our aspirations and our doubts, Do all these subtle, winged thought<;, Leave trace behind them none ? When in yon tuneful, odorous wood, We walk alone anc.l calmly muse, Do perfumes cheer and mustc move, But solitude's inspiring thoughts More fleeting, useless prove? When yonder setting sun sets fire To all the drapery of cloud, Does color's influence leave no touch On us, as on the leaves? Do our resolves and honest trials, Do moral vict'ries bravely won, Does patience long and charity Exert no influence so great, As motions physical? Be praise! man's inner life does tell, Upon the world without full well. Each hope, each fear, eac.h secret thought, Each beauteous scene, enthusiast's dream, Each purpose formed, each vow well kept, Has strength to last ten thousand years, Has power to shape e'en adamant. They make the man, man rules the world, They all are real, they only real. MARSHAL NEY. First Junz'or Prz'ze Oratz'on. JAMES COSLETT SMITH, JR. MICHAEL NEY was a soldier by inheritance. His father served in the Seven Years' -vvar, and at his father's knee he listened to the tales of valorous deeds that thrilled his soul and fed his inherent longing to be a soldier. N ey could boast no lofty lineage. Entering the army when none but royalty could hope for promotion, he advanced slowly at first ; but after equality of rights was restored, his rise . was rapid. We see hirr1 in Napoleon's battles along the Rhine; at Worms and Frankfort ; at Stuttgard and Zurich. Again, he is 1finister to Switzerland, and shortly afterward a Mar ... shal of France. With courage N ey combined coolness and sound judgment. In the heat of battle he stood in marble calmness, observing every movement and never erring in his commands. . These qualities won his soldiers' hearts. He led men where no other general could. Time and again did Napoleon place in N ey' s hands the fate of the Empire. Of the numerous titles conferred upon this hero, the worthiest was that of\ Brav- est of the Brave \ ; to win this name from M u- rat, Macdonald and Lannes was great glory. A page from the Marshal's life will illustrate his character: Moscow was taken. The burning towers ·were flaring on the night ; houses were falling ; walls were crashing down. With forty thou- sand men N ey was detailed to cover the retreat. The soldiers suffered terribly. At every step some one succumbed to the weary march and pinching cold. 'Those behind stumbled over the bodies of those who had preceded. Many, in despair, threw away their arms and lay down to die. Clo~ds of croaking ravens hovered near. The wolves howled amid the sno-vv. The winter wind whistled through the cold pines. The driving snow cut the very flesh. At night the soldiers lay do\vn about their fires, and the morning found circles of dead men in their places. N ey' s forty thousand men became fif- teen. hundred. Still he struggled on, himself gnawed by pangs of hunger, his heart bleeding

2 THE CONCORDIENSIS. for his suffering men. None but a man of the joiced in his death; but party feeling has passed greatest ability could have held such moral · a way. The memory of Marshal N ey has risen power over those wretched troops. None hut · pure and imperishable, and justice has been a man of the strongest will could have endured •. done by the whole world to one whose life was that terrible ordeal. When the army reached • sacrificed only because he loved the person of the Niemen, the rear guard numbered th£rty · his king less, and his country's glory more. men. With this force N ey held the way, till, these deserting him, he fought his way alone to the river, and was the last of the Grand • Army to leave Russian territory. . Turn another page: Napoleon has returned · from Elba. The hundred days of preparation have passed. 'fhe hostile armies are on the · field of Waterloo. The strife has been raging · seven mortal hours. The iron Duke is waver- ing. Napoleon is confident. Suddenly the ar- rival of Blucher gives a new aspect to affairs. One desperate charge must cut the English ·. front. Who shall make the charge but the Old Guard, invincible ! And who shall lead them but the \Bra vest of the Brave \ ! Europe's fate trembled in the balance. Thr~Jnes tottered on the ensanguined field, and the shadows of fugitive kings flitted through the smoke of battle. PROF. ISAAC W. JACKSON, LL.D. SINCE the close of the last Academic year, Union College has been called to mourn the loss of its Senior Professor, who, by his character and services, has done more than any living man toward shaping its history. It is fitting, there- fore, that the first number of THE CONCORD!- . ENSIS should contain some reference to his life · and labors. Dr. Jackson graduated in the year 1826, with the highest honors of his class. I-Ie at once entered the service of his Alma Mater as tutor, and in I 8 3 I becatne Professor of Mathematics, which position he held at the time of his death. For fifty-one years he gave to the College, not his labors merely, but himself. His thoughts and plans, his ambitions and affections centered about the institution which honored him, and in ~turn borrowed luster from his fame. To the work of his vocation he brought a vigorous and cultured mind, which was enriched by subsequent investigations in his department '·.t ,. .. , ; I ·~: •' ':: ~ \ } . ~ ~ · ..... : ·: ~\\ ~' .· ... . ···:! ,. ,!o;: .... The charge was made ; with how disastrous a result ? Swept along in the flying crowd, des- perate, great in all the grandeur of accepted death, N ey bears himself to every blow of the tempest. Reeking with sweat, his horse shot under him, his uniform in tatters, his badge of the grand eagle pierced by a ball, bloody, cov- ered with mud, a broken sword in his grasp, he seeks the death becoming a Marshal of France. Haggard and exhausted, in the agony of the rout he cries, as the batteries mow down his men : \Oh ! that all these English balls were buried in my body!\ Unhappy man! He was reserved for French bullets ! of education, continued even under the in- firmities of advancing years. Those who have 1 . given closest attention to his text books and ' personal instructions are most capable of testi- fying to the absolute clearness of his mathe- 1 · matical conceptions and demonstrations. He seemed to grasp by intuition the principles which underlie the\ science of certainty,\ and his method of unfolding those principles for purposes of instruction has justly claitned the admiration of scholars both at home and abroad. --- his c and Tl he C< gard· plan1 tion and l life. the l full c came with symr: frien< man1. The as sun could kindl numl: have why] tions, the g, SlOnS knew broad hum a virtuE faults kin db .. fined a clas: angel: one ' trade~ few w name helpfl in the He was not, however, a specialist, in any narrow sense of that word. His studies were not confined to the sphere of mathematics, and .: \their 1 the applications of tnathematics to the various . 1 His fected It wa~ of the faithfl also, ' Marshal N ey was shot as a ~raitor ! It is true he did betray his king; but how was this? His old and beloved master called him ; patriot- ism urged him on. Believing that he was thus serving his country best, he obeyed Napoleon's summons. Thus, in defiance of a solemn cap_ itulation, despite Wellington's promise of for- giveness for deeds done in the \ hundred days,\ N ey was executed. There were those who re- physical sciences ; he was, also, a delighted ex- plorer in the fields of philosophy and literature. , :; His literary taste was delicate and unerring, and ,,. J . t

THE CONCORDIENSJS. 3 ·' his own style as an author is a model of purity . their affliction,\ and'' remember the words of the Lord ] esus how that he said 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.' \ and precision. · . ii' Though scholarly in all his. tastes and habits, . ..... · he could not be a recluse or a bookworm. The .·' ':: ~ of :: '; garden where for so many years he toiled and .. planned bears witness to his fond apprecia- tion of natural beauty; which grew stronger · ··· and more absorbing as he neared the close of · life. The birds sang for him more sweetly, and the language of trees and flowers seemed more full of tender significance as the t-vvilight of age ;' came stealing on. And his deep sympathy with nature was matched by a corresponding sympathy with men. His aversions, like his friendships, were strong and abiding, but for mankind at large his soul. was full of charity. The acerbity of manner which he occasionally ·.··· : assumed was a transparent disguise which could not conceal, even from his dog, the innate kindliness of his heart. Perhaps the greater number of the three thousand students who a I. d I l ' e , I . • i / have shared his instructions could not explain why he had so strong a hold upon their affec- tions, nor why the mention of his name among the gathered Alumni called forth such expres- sions of enthusiastic regard, but those who knew him best will attribute his power to that broad and generous sympathy with every thing human, which enabled him to discern the virtues, and, it may be, too readily condone the faults and follies of impetuous youth. His kindly feelings and kindly acts were not con- fined to the narrow limits of a social circle or a class. He might have said to the recording angel, though he never would, \ vr rite me as one who loved his fellow men.\ Farmers, tradesmen and mechanics were his friends, and few with whotn he came in contact could not name some act of thoughtful attention or some helpful suggestion which betrayed an interest in the plans and struggles and successes of : \their homely life. His religion like his garb was evidently af- fected by his Quaker origin and early training. It was unobtrusive, undemonstrative, a religion of the heart and of the closet which made him ,:l faithful in his church and household, but taught, also, \to visit the fatherless and widows in 32472 ENGLISH LITERATURE IN COLLEGE EDUCATION. THE study of English Literature has hardly received the position which it deserves in the college curriculum. While the classical student has eight terrns of minute and thorough study of choice Latin and Greek authors, and his classmate of the scientific division spends an equal time upon his French and German lit- erature, no provision is made for the study of English authors beyond a term's 'vork in the Senior year, when the student is about to leave his Alma Mater and cannot much longer profit by her instructions. This system we believe to be radically wrong. Our literature surely demands rr1ore attention than this. Under the present system, the bound- less riches of our noble birth-right, the English language, are a sealed book to many otherwise educated men. Those who have the courage to search single-handed for its treasures, often lose time and labor because they have nothing to guide them, nor any thing on which to base a definite system of reading. Close at hand they have a library well stocked with what they need, but they find it difficult to make selec- tions or pursue a course of study, simply be- cause they have no one to direct them to what is useful, and teach them to avoid what is not. They are in the condition of a miner who knows that the ground beneath him holds countless treasures, but is helpless for lack of implements with which to work the coveted ore. As a means of acquiring a correct and ready use of language, the study of its literature in the originals themselves is invaluable. Those of our readers who for half an hour have racked their brains to no purpose for a suitable ex- pression for a really excellent idea, will thor- oughly appreciate this advantage. It is this want of readiness which creates the evident and painful deficiency in our college essays and orations. It is not that ideas are lacking, it is

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. caused by a sheer inability to clothe those ideas . in a fitting garb. Our orators and essayists · owe tbeir eminence to their skill in putting thoughts into words, not in any striking great- ness of the thoughts themselves. This, then, constitutes the practical value of the most neg ... lected study in our course, that it gives the stu- dent c.om.m:and over his own language ; in other words,. it puts into his hands one of the most powerful instruments to success in life, and teaches him how to use it effectively. The formation of a cultivated taste is an ad- vantage (){literary study which cannot be over- rated. While this advantage is partially ob- tained by acquaintance with foreign models, it is far more advantageously and most pleasantly acquire<i by a study of native authors. Latin and G-reek, French and German, soon fade out of the mind of the alumnus when he is engaged in the sterner duties of life. But if he has once acquired a taste for English literature, and has corrected his taste by a systematic and thor- o:ugh study of the best authors, he will not af- terward lack for employment for his leisure hours. For knowledge of this kind once at- tained is readily carried, and can always receive additions at pleasure. A correct taste causes the favorite author to be also a good author, and, under its guidance, good reading becomes an efficient 1neans of elevating the character. There is, then, in view of these facts an ur- gent reason for making English literature a study of much more prominence than it has hitherto been. Beginning with the study of rhetoric, and the application of a few necessary canons of criticism, it should fonn a course ex- tending over at least two years. We should have for our text books, not mere accounts of authors and their works, but the very works themselves. These should be studied as our languages and our mathematics are studied, thoroughly and patiently. In this way, and in no other, can English literature be taught to advantage, and in this way it can form the basis of a re:fi.ned taste, increased vigor of thought and expression, and a broadening and height en- ing of cllaracter itself. A. D. TAYLER LEWIS, LL.D.,. L, H. D. No American scholar has passed away in re- cent years whose death has touched a deeper chofd of sorrow than our great Professor, who died on the twelfth of last May at the good old age of seventy-six years. For many years he has been esteemed one of the foremost de- fenders of the truth against the assaults of sceptical philosophy and science. Few, very fe'\r men were so learned in scriptures, so per- fectly at home in the languages and literature of ancient times, so well read in the philosoph- ical and sci en. tific literature of our own day, and few could so readily wield their attainn1ents f,, 1 .... !' \· I. in support of the principles they advocated. As a teacher, a college professor, he has been l r' ,·, rJ most heartily respected and admired and be- r: loved. Twenty-six classes have passed under tJ his instruction at Union College, and to-day i.·· remember with. thankfulness tbe charm with 1. which he invested the study of the classics, and the wealth of information and illustration which characterized his lectures. Mr. Lewis was an humble, unostentatious, sincere Christian. For many years he was a member of the Reformed Church. In belief he was heartily a Calvinist, and was a notable exarnpl e of the intelligence, 1'· ... the strength, the Godliness, the purity, the un- reserved devotion to our Lord Jesus Christ, and the constantly increasing spirituality which that form of a doctrine is so eminently calculated to produce. His life, which has attained such high and desirable honor, is full of encourage- ment to those who have nothing- to rely upon beyond their own ability and conscientious, resolute perseverance. Dr. l,ewis was born in Northumberland, Saratoga county, N.Y., I 802. With few advantages he elevated himself to r · classical learning, and mainly by the power of persistent study won an honorable position among the foremost scholars of our day. Dr. Lewis at first studied law, then established a classical schoo1 at Waterford, and afterward was engaged in a similar institution at Ogdens- t burg. In 1838 he was chosen the Professor of!.· Greek in the University of New York, from · · · ·which he was called to the Greek Profes-sorship 1 • in Union College, his Alma Mater, a position whi1 the beet the ma11 ture the ture Lec1 the fron men man man artie thot Chri scho acqu rich mou lect, tors. . prtVl \Vorl bles~ coun . tmpt tice ; true dere~ heroi fend( then and< repu1 tent attral hand few} and r whicl studil tions he di too r<: who' Ta\ \ treast

e- rs e- of re y, d. l r' ,·, r·<, ! I,< t er ., I l' r ' or n- to . lll to of a rd . THE CONCORDJENSfS. 5 which he held at the time of his death .. Among the publications prepared by his busy pe'H have been: ;'Platonic Philosophy, or Plato against the Atheist;'' \The Six Days of Creation,\ maintaining the harmony between the scrip- friend of ·education, or a friend of religion, as long as time r]asts. He has departed, but he · has left behind him an influence that will live · forever, and bless the world and make h better. tures and geology;\ \The Bible and Science;\ HONOR, Hke common sense, is easier under- the H Divine Human in the Scriptures;\ \Na- · stood than defined. Money cannot buy it; ture and the Scriptures,'' being the Vedder age will not procure it. Wi,thout it know ledge Lectures for I 87 5· He contributed largely for is po,.ver misdirected; conscience is a kindly the \Editor's Table\ of Harper's Magazine voice put to silence- a heart dead to [eve and from r85rto r856,andtranslatedLange'sCom- coldtovirtue. Honor is the 11zan. ft is the mentary on Ecclesiastes, and, with Dr· Gos- gold in exchange ; the basis of ail good society. man, that on Genesis. He has also been for ·. The vvorst that can be said of a man is, that he many years a writer for the press, preparing has no ho-nor. Such a man must be answered articles that have been eagerly read by tens of with the bitter sarcasm of an awful silence ; thousands, and been discussed around many must be made to feel alone in a multitude. His Christian firesides as well as in the study of the very presence is a bane. Honor is the soul of scholar. .To the very last he was engaged in character; the principle of being and doing acquiring useful knowledge and imparting his right. Honor has no equivalent, and should rich attainments to others. Union College never be sacrificed. It is above riches, favor, mourns the loss of a good man, a great in tel- law, country, and li(e itself. Y o,ung men look lect, and one of her best friends and benefac- -vvistfully, hopefully, and perhaps anxiously into tors. Learning and scholarship have been de-- the future for some tokeri of fortune. Before , prived of a representative \vhose reputation is them are many ways- some -vvith unseen ter- ·world-wide, and whose mission has been to minatiqns, but _oth_ers are the paths of our bless the world and make it better. The fathers, whose graves are vocal with precepts, country loses a pure patriot, whose warmest and- whose monutnents point _ to the goal of impulses were always on the side of union, jus- noble success. The men of value are those in tice and equality. The veteran soldier loses a whom we can confide- on whom we may lean; true friend, one whose soul went out in the ten- they are the pillars of the universe. Our derest solicitude during the late war for the thoughts and impressions of each other in early heroic men at the front. Every man who de- life are nOt changed by the fleeting years. A fended the flag had a friend and defender in good record in the hearts of others is a price- the now lamented Professor. As an instructor less treasure. Honor gets a worthy name and and college lecturer, Dr. Lewis attained a great secures ·respect with a lasting remembrance.-Ex. reputation. He charmed his classes by the ex- tent and variety of his attainments, and the attractive illustrations which he had always at hand. His studies were of a class for which few Americans have either taste or opportunity, and he brought to them a diligence and ability which are not common. Nor did he permit his studious habits to diminish his interest in ques- tions affecting the welfare of society. These he discussed with a learning ·and ability only too rare, and which 'von the- respect of those who were unable to accept his conclusions. Tayler Lewis is gone, but his memory will be treasured wherever there is a friend of truth, a TO MY NIECE. Count the years my little maiden, That have passed across your life ; Joyous years and pleasure-laden, Free from sorrow, pain and strife; And remember that I wish you . Many and many a year like those, Light of gladdest days to ]{iss you, Gentle nights of sweet re:pose. Count the thoughts, my little maiden, That have passed acro!'s y-our_mind ; Fairy thoughts and treasure-laden, Leaving sting nor stain behind ; And remember that I wisll you Years and years of thoughts like those; May their fragrance never miss you, Nor the peace that from them flows. HOMER GREENE.

I I ! 'I I 6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. CoNCORDIENsrs : PUBLISHED MONTHLY DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. EDITORS: J. F. GREENE, '79, CHIEF EDITOR. W. W. CHILDS, '79· F. F. CHISOLM, '79· N. L. REED, '79· R. C. ALEXANDER, '8o. W. BRONK, 'So. LAw DEPARTMENT. MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. ---~- TERMS: One Dollar per Year, in advance. Single copies, Ten Cer1ts. ADDRESS, THE CONCORDIENSIS, Box 481,. Schenectady, N. Y. LITERARY: CONTENTS. A Revery Marshal Ney, - Prof. Isaac W. Jackson, English Literature in College Education Prof. Tayler Lewis Honor PAGE. - r r - 2 3 - 4 5 . . this point, we will speak more fully at another time. Furthermore, we hope to incite men to . a sound scholarship, not necessarily confined to · the narrow limits of a certain course, but em- . bracing independent excursions and research; . to maintain a high tone of courtesy, honor and · refinement in all our relations, as among gen ... tlemen; to encourage greater activity in all the enterprises of the college, tbre musical and row- ing associations, the gymnasium, base-ball and foot-ball, the debating societies, etc. The fact is, too many men come here and settle do\vn to a set of slov.r and narrow habits. We need to awake and go at all these taings with more life and energy, and secure the benefits they afford. THE CONCORDIENSIS \Vill ile found on duty here every time. Then, we wish to keep .our Alumni acquainted each with the other's for- tunes, and interested in ·the welfare of their To my Niece- EDITORIAL: Salutatory - Military Drill - New Rule for Seniors Foot-ball Down-town Disturbances - To our Alumni Duty of the Seniors FALL ATHLETICS CLASS ELECTIONS PERSONALS - PARAGRAPHS - 6 - 7 - 7 7 - 8 • IO II 5 Alma Mater. Here again we need assistance if we are to succeed. We shall also endeavor to more closely unite the different departments of the University. We send greetings to the Law and Medical schools~ and .. bespeak their active interest. Finally, it :is our purpose to bring to bear upon Union the ambitions and achievements and prevalent spirit of other col- leges, and to obtain for her among them the 6 7 7 9 EDITORIAI.J. It is an unpleasant feature of the past that the college paper should have been discon- tinued by class dissension. In the past let it remain as a warning for the future. The classes of Seventy-nine and Eighty now undertake to supply what has lately been the greatest defi- ciency of the University. To accomplish this, \Ve banish all class-spirit. We desire that THE CoNCORDIENSIS. shall be a genuine represent- ative of the culture and scholarship, the man- liness and enterprise, of Union, and to this end \Ve invoke the hearty co--operation of students, Faculty, Alumni and friends. To them we beg to offer the following pro- spectus : First, we desire to increase literary in- terest by inducing an emulation and pride in ability as writers, and in taste as readers, \Vhich . shall be worthy of our institution. Touching consideration which she deserves. We already foresee many difficulties to be encountered, and are consciO<us of the unfitness and inexperience we bring tom eet them. There- fore, we feel the greater neecl of assistance and support from all who desire success for a live paper, devoted to Old U nioa's interests. . We make our bow to our exchanges as we enter the circle of college publications, mod- estly, as befitting newcomers, cordially, as col- lege-men. We request frorn all a lenient judg- ment upon this our first issue. In the January n urn her of the \American Quarterly Review,\ under t11e title of \Bom- bast in Education,\ we read a criticism of Union College in which tb.e statement was made, that far more studies \ive're given in the catalogue than were actually studied, and that not one graduate in ten could read the Latin in : wh bei aut sol: ha\ . pot sta age but ha\ Ole .:.:::~ ), ent ' .. J ·,; par •· }; -~ :, '~ .. i . t ' .·'• In '', ;:t . t lS \ con f .. , f, ' cia~ .- ~ ' ,'<, con i ' r- Sen ' .~ -~ upo I an , '·.;: ( ·1 bef< .. ,, . •\ '\ the v i tow ., .. , rece -·~ SUp] ·t ther cert of e ''i full) i .) I ' stud \ ·~j i '.;{ the c . <~ I.- ~ ' ;~~ ativ( ) , ~~{ {·d~. '~~~ you1 . ·~~: I '';Y'f r·J goo< ; ~~li I -.t~ ! .:4 to w .. , ~ ~ ·\ \ .; ,\ •.,; . ··~ It :.'1 ~:~· ~' SIS ( ·)i . ,., ·f will ·:-~~ \~ hi bit ous , ( ates, be kl Mat( very

her to to en-- to rd. . e1r he . to be d- g- THE CONCORDlENSJS. 7 which his diploma 'vas written. Our suspicions being aroused, upon inquiry 've fqund that the author of the article was here sometime ago to solicit the advertisement of the College, but having failed in obtaining it, vented his disap- pointment in the article referred to. If the statement had been made ten or fifteen years ago, it would have had sotne semblance of truth, but at present it is utterly false, for the faculty have been steadily advancing the standard of Old Union in every possible way, and at pres- ent our curriculum and our actual work com- • !:, pare favorably with those of any other college :, '~ .. \ i - ' .. ·'• in the United States. The latest rule enacted ' is that no student of the College who has any f - ·' conditions shall be allow·ed to enter the Senior f,\ _ .•• : : class before making them up ; and until such ~' >: conditions are n1ade up, he cannot sit with the Senior class in chapel, nor his name appear [ .' upon the class-roll. The rule is undoubtedly ' ''; i - , an advantageous one and one which we hope, ', ·1 .. :· before long, to see extended to entrance into \\ ,; the Junior and Sophomore classes. We hope that ladies and gentletnen down town will not impute certain boyish capers at l recent public meetings to all the students, or i, suppose that even if they did not engage in : 1 them, all thought them very creditable. It is certainly exasperating to overhear some p_erson of evident culture and position remark disdain- ~] fully when a rowdyish noise occurs, \that is a r'f1 student,\ taking it for granted. But it is not i ~:~ the student, that is to say, an average represent- ~~t~ ative man' who studies, and we trust that the ;j~l younger members will hereafter respect their !J i ~~l good breeding and the honor of the institution ! .. ~ to which they have been connected. \ \ . 'l •.,\'J /i It is our intention to make the CONCORDIEN- ~:~· SIS such ~ _paper that no Alumnus of Union :~~ will be willing to forego it, both by a lively ex- ,, hibit of the present doings, and· by such copi- ous and familiar information concerning grad u- ates, that the metnory of her gray old walls may be kept green in every heart loyal to his Alma Mater. We have made our subscription price very low (one dollar per year in adva1tce), and depend upon a large number of subscriptions. We make a special appeal to all our Alumni and friends for prompt remittances, and also for in- teresting correspondence. Write as though you were talking at a class supper, and pay as freely. ~ The excellent foot-ball elevens of the Junior and Sophomore classes v.rhich were developed last spring ought to be re-organized at once. In our opinion foot-ball is the best sport going, and an hour's warm work will do a rnan more good and give hin1 more genuine satisfaction than can be measured by all the gentle and in- active arnusements put together. The Fresh- men also have abundant material to make a very lively contest for somebody, even if they do not sweep the field ; and vve presume that not even their dignity would keep the Seniors from competing, if they thought they could succeed. We have some terrible rnen in college for such a sport, and ought to be able to form an eleven which would make itself conspicuous . To do this, its members should be selected as . soon as possible. Military drill appears to have been abolished. We hope that it has, and that it ·will not be re- new~d. It appears very fine at first, this idea of sending forth graduates equipped and fur- nished to serve their country when their country calls, then and there summarily. And a be- nevolent notion has gathered in some good peo- ple's minds, that the aforesaid drill is highly conducive to rugged health and complete phys- ical development. Indeed, these seem to be alm.ost the only reasons for its continuance worth mentioning. But inasmuch as men come to college with some desires and purposes of their own, and inasmuch as the probability of there being a war, multiplied by the probability of any student's going, multiplied by the prob- ability of his rem em bering any thing that he learns now, even if the tactics were the same, is a very small fraction indeed, and inasmuch as a man could learn more and better in two days' constant drill than he does throughout the course, in some way or another, when we look a second titne for this glorious patriotism

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. we find it not. Regarding the s·econd point, • L. W. Beattie, '79, W. J. McNulty, '8o, the advantage of sullenly tramping around two • 1. E. Bold, '78, A. B. Moorhouse, '78, or three hours a week is h.ardly considerable to J. W. Wiswall, '8I. men who are walking or running half the time, . Wiswall did not compete. McNulty won, and who have access to a pleasant gymnasium. throwing 29ft. 2 inches. Beattie second, 27ft. If it were worth while we might state other ob- . 3 inches. jections, but we are confident that the authori- Next came throwing the hammer, four entries, ties of the college will not restore so unpopular ·. and all appeared : a feature to the course, as was military drill. FALL ATHLETICS. The fall meeting of the Athletic Association was held on the College Track Saturday, Oct. 27th, and was largely atte~ded. The entries vvere numerous, the contest spirited, and as a whole the affair was very successful. Only one or tV\~o features were unpleasant. By the . private enterprise of Mr. Vanderveer, the in- structor in gytnnastics, a neat programme ha~ been printed, containing a list of events, entries, judges, etc., which proved very convenient, and enables us to present the following complete report. The first event was the hundred-yards dash, the following being entered : W. P. Adams, '79, F. W. Moore, '8I, W. J. McNulty, '8o, J. L. Perry, '79, J. D. Parsons, '79. As the new hundred yard !?tretch was some- what soft from recent rain, they ran on the campus. All started but Parsons. · Moore secured a slight lead on the start and increased it, until near the finish the race seemed his. But MeN ulty darted up in fine style, and won the race by the width of his body. . Time,· I It seconds. 1\ioore crossed the line second, fol- lowed by Adams, Perry Jast. But a f?ul was claimed against Moore and allowed, as it ap- pears to us, unjustly. If the start was given, it was a fair race; if the start was not allowed, it was no race and should have been run over . aga1n. After the dash the crowd betook itself to the course, where the remaining contests took place. The second event was putting the stone, with five entries: L. W. Beattie, '79, A. B. Moorhouse, 78, J. E. Bold, '78, W. H. Thomas, '78. Although Seventy-nine had but one represen- tative she was made victorious by Beattie's splendid throw of 89 ft. 9 inches, Bold coming second with 8 5 ft. 4 inches. In the fourth event, which was vaulting with the pole, three were entered and contested, namely: W. H. Ingram, '8o, R. T. Lomasney, '8o, .A .. B. Moorhouse, '78. Lomasney and Moorhouse dropped out after six feet six, and Ingram stopped at 7 ft. 4 inches. It was then proposed to have Moor- house and Lomasney, who were tie, compete for second place, but as the latter had disap- peared Moorhouse was a warded that honor. For the running long jump, fifth on the pro- gramme, the entries and competitors \vere : W. J. McNulty, '8o, A. B. Moorhouse, '78, F. W. Moore, '81, J. L. Perry. '79, W. H. Thon1as, '78. Each man increased his jump with every trial, until on his third and last trial, Moore made r 8 ft. 9 inches. MeN ulty then followed with 17ft. 6 inches, but as the judges decided that he was hindered by an accident, he was allowed two or three further attempts, which, however, proved unsuccessful. They were awarded first and second places respectively. Sixth event, hitch and kick, three entdes: E.· McDonnell, '79, W. J. McNulty, 'So, A. B. Moorhouse, '78. Mr. Moorhouse, however, withdrew. Mc- Nulty won at 7ft. 4 inches, McDonnell second, 7ft. 2 inches. Both had kicked much higher in practice, but preferred not to exert them- selves. . : '\ '·' I \ ' I \. i 1 and tes1 j bes I pro the fon lV the Mo, side fOUl but sho1 Ha\' \ 1 ran, ·, ·· ·· the I : ., to s late T wall Mel B muc W1111 26 s P1 the j Pot1 1 judg

' ' e s ng ith 4 ed ed THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 Thro·wing the base-ball was then announced, and the following presented themselves as con- testants: W. E. Anderson, 'So, W. J. McNulty, '8o, A. A. Brown, '79, A. B. Moorhouse, '7S, L. F. Holmes, '78, W. C. Ravenel, 'So. Anderson's throw. of 297ft. 2 inches was the best. Hotmes second, 290 ft. 5 inches. In the half-mile run which followed and of ing was arranged, and to whom its success was largely due. On behalf of Mr. W. L. Campbell, Chief .of Police of this city and one of the judges, Pro- fessor Staley then presented Mr. MeN ulty with the special prize for best general athlete, and after cheers the crowds dispersed. The sports have produced a pleasurable ex- citement in college, but they are not entirely successful unless they increase the general in- terest in gymnastics this winter. Let the sue- proved one of the most exciting contests the day, seven competitors were named follows, but only the first five started : as cessful take care for their laurels in the spring, '., l ;, ,. ' I \ ' ,' 1 W. Hayes, '79, F. W. Moore, '8r, W. B. Landreth, 'So, W. H. Thomas, '7S, W. J. McNulty, '8o~ J. Heatly, '79, E. P. White, '79. MeN ulty, having the inside position, took the lead. Landreth soon closed in with him. Moore was running hard on the extreme out- side. Hayes and Thomas steady. Half way round the second time Hayes tried for the lead, but failed. Moore and Landreth fell out shortly afterward, leaving MeN ulty ahec:td, Hayes second, Thomas last. In this order they 1 ran, gradually separating. Half way round for ·, .l the fourth and last time MeN ulty was the first :, to spurt, and although Hayes made a gallant ·! ) struggle he was unable to overtake him, Me- r ~ Nulty winning in 2. I6 I-4, Hayes three seconds : ·;1 1 ] ater. .~ The ninth and last event was the One-mile { :~ walk. 1'he following entered, but Lansing and ·;~ ;~ MeN ulty did not start. ::M ; ,:{t{ ~-~~; I ·;l,l ~ :~ f. ·~; I :' l _?\- ~ -~;~ v· -1~} L. W. Beattie, '79, W. J. McNulty, 'So, W. F. Lansing, '7S, J. J. O'Hara, '7S, J. E. McGuire, '79, L. D. Palmer, '79· Beattie stopped after the second lap, and at i' ~~~; ·~ the end of the third one of the judges ruled out Ul McGuire, leaving only 0' Hara and Palmer. f -'i In this order they continued the walk amid f \' much excitement. 0' Hara was declared the l ;:~ I,·. winner in 8 min., 2r sec., Palmer's time, 8 min., 26 sec. I I ;_:_: ~ ' President Potter then proceeded to distribute the prizes, which were quite tasty and, as Dr. 't Potter said, evinced Mr. Vanderveer's good judgment, under whose management the meet- and let the disappointed work hard for satis- faction. CLASS ELECTIONS. 'fHE different classes have held their elec- tion with the results which \Ve subjoin. SENIOR CLASS. A. Duane, R. G. O'N eale, F. Vosburgh, - J. F. Thomas, Aaron Mynderse, Ed,vard Hayward, C. M. Culver, - Leonard Paige, John O'Hara. President. - Vzce President. Treasurer. Secretary. Orator. Poet. Prophet.· Histor£an. .,.. Marslzal. JUNIOR CLASS. J. D. Parsons, 0. G. Brown, David Sprague, J. E. Muller, F. Van Dusen, SOPHOMORE W. J. Ingram, H. T. Thompson, Robert ] . Landon, G. H. Slingerland, B. H. Ripton, PresideJzt. · Vice Pres-ident .. Secretary. - Treasurer. Historian. CLASS. President. Vice President. Secretary. Treasurer. - H-istorian. FRESHMAN CLASS. H. R. Pierson, Jr., President. E. T. Lansing, Vice President. W. M. White, - Secretary. D. H. McFalls, Treasurer. I-I. R. Shead, Historian.

IO THE CONCORDIENSIS. PERSONALS. '75· Gowenlock is in Calcutta, India. [Desiring to make this department one of : '75· Bennett is at Fort Dodge, Arizona, en- special interest, we request contributions from ;: gaged in mining. all. If any considerable portion of our Alumni •• '75. Tweedy is botanizing at Plainfield, N. ]. 1 will each take this trifling trouble, \they will be '75· Bo·wman is employed \vith the Penn. re\\rarded a hundred-fold. Ens.] . Coal Co., at Pittston, Pa. '49. Frederick W. Seward is Assistant--Secre-: • '75· Raymond is at Brunswick, Jewell at tary of State at Washington, and Allen c. :' Princeton Theological Seminary. Beach, of the same class, the present Secre- . '7 5· Oppenheim is teaching iri New York city. tary elect of this State. '7 5. Lansing has a fine pastorate at Mohawk, '57· John Gilmour, Esq., died of consutnp- :N.Y. tion in this city on the 22d, inst. '7 5. Pierson is employed on the State survey '64. Curtiss, principal of Sodus (N. Y.) ': near Cherry Valley. Academy, has recently been married. Our par- .· '75· Dudley is a lawyer at Johnstown, N. Y. '-' ticular congratulations, Professor. '75· King has caught the largest fish in Sal- '66. Grenville Tremain, ·who took a first .·. mon river- forty inches long- according to Blatchford, was the Republican candidate for ; the Pulaski (N.Y.) Denzocrat. Attorney-General of this State. '75· Abbey is in the Albany Law School. ( - v Ia.ur, pun ' gua~ and '70. Hoag is a member of the leading law . '76. Davis has been recalled to the College men: firm of W oicott, N. Y. · as tutor of Latin. ~ig~~ '71. Beckvvith is at the Albany Law School. . '76.· Greene graduates from the Albany La·w · · · · .· 1~w '72 I(line has married and is editor of .Tize · School in a few -vveeks. 1 sele~ A1Jzstet·da11z De1nocrat, and the popular Post- '76. Landreth is at Dudley Observatory, AI-' -1\ ~g~~ master of the same place. bany. ' 1 and j '75. Whiteharne is at the Medical College. '76. Robertson and Woodbridge are at \: 1 '73· Stanton is at the Albany Law School. • Princeton. I '73· Hill is Principal of Derry Female Aca.d- . '76. Buck is conducting a private school at I emy, East Derry, N. H. Raysville, Penn. '7 4· Becker is practicing law in Buffalo. '76. Jagger is married and gone to Oregon. '7 4· Waldron is traveling in Europe. '76. Jones is preaching in the Baltimore '73· J as. E. Allen, M. D., died Aug. 22, I 877. · (Md.) Conference. '73. Wright is preaching and lecturing at . '!6. Lockwood is on the State survey in the f .. Davenport. Delaware county, N. Y. v1c1nity of Albany. '74. McDuffy, White and Beakly, are all '76. Streeter is at the Albany Medical H practicing law in Amsterdam. School. '74. La\vrence is studying medicine in Albany. '76. Marsh is in the Columbia Law School. '7 4· Jackson has returned from New Mexico '77. Hubbs is at Union Theological Semi- IOI to this city. nary, New York. '74· McDermott is studying theology at '77· Bassett is attending Berkeley Divinity Montreal. School, Middletown, Conn. '7 4· Viall is practicing medicine at East '77. Robeson is in the Columbia Law School. BO Dorset, V t. '77. Adsit is the first man in his class to as- '74· Hoyt has his law office in the Times sume the marriage vows. Jac building, New York city. '77· Hawley is teaching in New York city. '74. Hoadley is principal of the Argyle (N.Y.) '77· Crain is employed as draughtsman by a Academy, a husband and a father. manufacturing company in Milwaukee. Col leg '74· Lewis has a government position at '77· Causley is engaged in quartz mining at Washington. Nederland, Boulder county, Colorado.

]. at ' Y. '- al- to , at at . at I . ' ·; . .~· I. l •' ,,..~ ~· 6- ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., NovEMBER, r877.· NUMBER I. UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. E. N. POTTER, D. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. y. -o-·- r. CLASSICAL CouRsE.-.-The Classical Course is the usual bacca- laureate course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. z. SciENTIFI<;: CouRsE.-In the Scientific Course the modern lan- guages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies is mcreased, 3• SCHOOL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING,-The student in this depart- ment enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed, in the course of instruc- tion, in its collectiOn of models, instruments and books, the accumulations of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusal facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental :field work. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE.-An Eclectic Course, cor{sisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, rna v be taken_by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a.certificate of attait\ment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. . For Catalogues, or for special information, address E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Schenectady, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1889. LEVI T. CLUTE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN HATs, CAPs, FuRs, TRUNKs, Traveling Bags, Umbrellas, &c., IOI STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y . JAMES H .. BARHYTE, BOOICSELLER AND STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER OF Jackson's Mechanics, Optics, Acoustics, Trigonometry and Conic Sections. Also on hand PROF. TAYLER LEWIS' WoRKS. College Rooms Papered and Decorated. Binding done to order. I I I STATE ST., SCHENECT AD¥, N. Y. • DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICA~ CoLL~GE.-Term commences First Tuesday in Septe!llber ~~d contm~es s1xteen weeks. The plan of instruction corn.bmes chmcal teachmg, w1th lectures. Special opportunities for the study of chemistry and of practical anatomy. EXPEr-.;sEs.-Matri<;mlation fee, $s .. Ter.m fee, t.roo. Ticket for two terms, $rso. Graduatwn fee, $25. D1ssectmg fee, $s. Fee for labora- tory co'Qrse, $w. For Circulars, address, PROF. JACOBs. MOSHER, M.D., REGISTRAR, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL.-The Course ofinstruction consists of three t~rms: the first commencing September 4th, the Second N ovem- ber 27th, and the third March sth; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study of the law, at Albany, are as great as can be found anywhere. The Law Library of the State is open to Students ; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Thir~ Depar~ment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. fi ee for smgle term, $so; for two terms, $9o; for three, $r30. For information, address ISAAC EDWARDS, LL.D., DEAN, Albany, N. Y. THE DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the University is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information, address PROF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO 55 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Photographers of YALE, HARVARD, PRINCETON, WESLEYAN, DARTMOUTH, LAFAYETTE, AN- DOVER, ABBOTT, PHIL. EXETER, PHIL. ANDOVER, vASSAR AND UNION. PLAIN AND COLORED PHOTOGRAPHS FROM LOCKET SIZE TO FULL SIZE. GROUPs, CoMPOSITION PHoTOGRAPHS AND VIEWS. COLLEGE ALBUMS IN GREAT VARIETY. VELVET FRAMES, CARTE DE VISITE, VERY CHEAP. ~Our Art Gallery always open to visitors, and ex- planations freely given . •

. . 11 1HE CONCORDIE'NSJS . ALBERT LAWTENSLAGER, MANUFACTURING JEWELER AND DIAMOND SETTER, 594 BROADWAY, ALBANY, N. Y. Orders for any College Badge solicited and filled with the best material which the market affords. WALTER F. HURCOMB & CU., MERCHANT TAILORS AND IMPORTERS, 16 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. . LETTER FROM SIR HENRY HALFORD, CAPTAIN OF BRITISH TEAM. GARDEN CITY HOTEL, Creedmoor, September 17, r8i7· Messrs. W. S. KIMBALL & Co., Rochester, N. Y.: GENTLEMEN-Pray accept my best thanks for the package of VANITY FAIR ToBAcco which I found here yesterday. It is the best tobacco I ever smoked, and will be a great source of en!.. joyment to me on my western trip. Believe me, yours truly, H. S. J. HALFORD. WII..~LIAM STOOPS, MERCHANT. TAILOR·, AND DEALER IN CLOTHS, CASSIMERES, VESTINGS, Ere., ro7 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WOOD BROS., SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER AND READY MADE. A LARGE LINE OF UNDERWEAR. ALL THE LA TEST STYLE SCARFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. 133 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. BOOTS AND SHOES. Particular attention given to custom work and repairing. JULIUS BALLART, Agent, 245 State Stnet, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. BYRON E. NEAR, STATIONER AND JOB PRINTER UNION HALL BLocK, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. ~AGENTS FOR COOKE'S RUBBER STAMPS. GEO. ]. SWORTFIGUER & SON, Nos. 56 and 202 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY, N. ·y, CROCKERY. China, Glass and Earthenware, Kerosene Lamps, Silver Plated Ware, Cutlery, House Furnishing and Fancy Goods. OSCAR D. REXFORD, DEALER IN ·CHOICE GROCERIES, TEAS, COFFEES, SPICES, TOBACCOS AND CIGARS. 265 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ! . . ton, '7 ary. '7 '7 ''\\ I '7 ' ? , .. vern '71 at P '7~ '7~ '7~ Sout '7~ '8< '8< N1 Tl Tl char, UJ versi Si: Coil( Cc Oge~ Tl four . faire~ Ut the I versi· Co · · at th to hr Iongt

Y. Y. Y. R ver Y. THE CONCORDlENSIS. I I '77· Delehanty is studying law in Albany. '77· Pennie is at the Law School. '?7- Jeralemonis Professor of Ancient Lan-. guages at Antwerp (N. Y .. ) Academy. . '77· Baird is Assistant City Engineer at Day- ton, Ohio. '77· Fairlee is at Auburn Theological Senlin- ary. '77· Rankine is reading law at Niagara Falls. '78. Smith has returned to Hobart. '78. Carter was in town a fevv weeks ago. '79· Blain is at home in: Amsterdam, and 1s . :.· expecting to go into business in Boston. '79· Beattie ad1nitted as an attorney at No- vember General Term. '79 Peters is teaching and studying medicine at PoughQuag, Dutchess county, N. Y. '79· Glover is teaching on Long Island. '79· Snook is in Princeton College. '79· Rhett is studying law at his home in · South Carolina. '79· McDonnell has returned to College. '8o. Benjamin is in New York. '8o. Legge will be back next term. PARAGRAPHS. No scissors yet. The Freshman class numbers 61. The Chi Psi Fraternity· has vvithdrawn the · , · charter of Union Chapter. Union receives two men from Lehigh U ni- · .. versity this year, Palmer '79, McNulty '8o. Sixty of the Alumni and students of Union , College died during the year of '76-'77. Colonel Pickett expresses the opinion that Ogee \vas born with a stone in his hand. The athletic games \Vere attended by about four hundred people, including a few of Dorp's · fairest maidens. Union was represented by five delegates in . . the Delta Upsilon Convention at Madison U ni- versity, October 25th and 26th. Colonel Pickett ought to raise the cross-walk at the Blue Gate, and not compel us to swim to breakfast more than two or three winters longer. Dignified Professor-\ lVlr. B., have you parted with that famous old horologe yet?\ Mr. B. proceeds to be dumb-founded by such condescension. A protninent Junior has been talking about a \ quadrilateral equation.\ We suppose he · thinks there are two sides to every question, however. Prof. \tV ebster spent the summer in \vorking up worms at Beaufort, N. C. He \vas accom- panied by Benedict, and also by Culver and Maxon, '78, and Landon, 'So. The College had a general bolt on the cele- bration of the Burgoyne Centennial. Dr. Pot- ter took occasion in announcing it to compli- ment the good order of the college. A pleasant rumor is afloat to the effect that Rev, Mr. Darling, of this city, is to \take some- thing\ as Professor. He will be a very clear and thorough teacher, and a popular man. The seniors have selected N otman of Mon- treal, branch in Albany, as class photographer. Under-classmen will do vvell to notice the very favorable arrangements for superior work. President pro te1npore, '' Freshman mount the table.\ Professor (measuredly), \Mr. President, I pronounce this meeting of the Sophomore class adjourned sine die.\ At this sign, it died very quietly. The Law and Medical departments have not yet elected their editors, or any other officers. Consequently, we have no news from them in this nutnber, but \Ve hope to make up for this de- ficiency by a particularly good report next issue. It is generally reported that Dr. Lowell handed in his resignation as Professor of Latin last June, and that it has just been accepted. If this be true, Union loses a splendid scholar. But we reserve further remarks until it is con- firmed. The Senior catalogue published by the secret societies ·will probably be out in the course of a month, and gives promise of being un- usually good, as all the editors are able vvriters. A new feature vvill be a directory of all the students. --·

I2 THE CONCORDIENSIS. One of our Sophomores wishes us to say that the young lady of Ingham University who threw a red table-cloth over his head from an upper window as an affectionate farewell, can have the same by proving property, and, we will add, rewarding '' ye editors.\ Junior-· nay, we exhort and implore that noble Junior, to write up a thrilling romance, entitled, for instance, \The Body-Snatcher's Defeat\ and subrnit it to THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Freshman translations this year have been tolerably original and ·ingenious. For in- stance, \my beloved shoot'' is a very happy mode of address for the \ old gentleman Priam \ to employ toward Hector, and Jupiter is a Our advertisers are generally the most enter- prising dealers in their respective lines. They not only want the college patronage, but most of thetn are interested in our success. We ac- cordingly request all supporters of this paper to patronize those who patronize us. At the request of Mrs. Peissner, we announce that the library of the late Dr. Tayler Lewis is open to all students who are desirous of exam- ining it. This library C?ntains a valuable col- lection of rare manuscripts and books, an in- spection of which will vvell repay anyone. · most appropriate genitive for Juno ; but real '· genius and stern perseverance are required to rival that '8o Scientific who read \Agricola taurum cornibus tenebat,\ \The farmer was We have received the Har'\t'ard Advocate and Lampoon, Anzlzerst Student, Beso1n, Echo, Dickinsonian with a prospectus ; Packer Quar- terly, Cornell Era, Trinity .Tablet and Ha1nilton L-iterary, but owing to the confusion of starting a new paper have been unable to notice articles in any of them. The U. C. Musical Association has been re- organized with the following officers : President, Leonard Paige, '78 ; Secretary and Treasurer, Talcott C. Van Santvoord, '8o; Musical Di- • rector, J. E. Bold, '78. It is hoped that the new members from the Freshman class will in some degree compensate for the good voices lost, when '77 graduated. We notice in Albany and Troy papers of a late date a lengthy scientific article on \The Water we Drink,\ read by Prof. Perkins before the Albany Institute, and \prepared by two of the Fellows of Union College-F. J. Ball art, '7 5, and F. M. Comstock '76.\ Their article on \ Snow\ has been extensively copied by such periodicals as the .1.V. Y. E·uening Post and Har-- per's Montlzly. One of our Juniors has a wonderful account of an owl-eyed grave digger dO\VD his way. That is to say, he digs his graves by night, has eyes with long, narrow pupils, and cannot see in the daytime. We advise and request that keeping the bull out of the corn.\ The Gymnasium looks lively about these days. Mr. Vanderveer is the right man in the right place surely. We suppose that it would be difficult to find another athlete so excellent in all branches, and at the same time so oblig- , ing and enterprising. If he continues as well as he has done so far, this troublesome depart- ment of the college is well. provided for, and our prominence in collegiate athletics is guar- anteed. The Faculty ought to give him a little money to make ,needed repairs. The Finance Committee of the college, at a 1 ate meeting, decided that they could not con- tinue payments on the boat-house lease. Dr. Potter, however, makes hill)self personally re- sponsible in the matter. The President is the foremost man in the Faculty in· supporting all athletic interests, and we owe him greater ap- preciation in this respect. The boating asso- ciation is improperly organized, and before an- other season we will prop(lse a plan by which a 11 the students can secure its poss~ble benefits. M.A. LIND, Manufacturer of CHOICE SEGARS, ~nd Dealer in TOBACCO, PIPES, POUCHES, &c., 239 State Street, SCHENCTADY. Sta1 DEV Fa M ( 47 : B J. (

THE CONCOR.DIENSIS. :iii t \ a ' tn- . IS a real '· d to was hese the ould blig- ' well part- and at a CARLEY HOUSE,, State Street, cor. Centre, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. Class and Society Suppe,rs a specialty. DEVENDORF & CO., Proprietors. . G , . •. ENTS FuRNISHING Goons, And Manufacturer of the ANCIENT CITY SHIRT. Myers' Block, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. THOS. H. REEVES & CO., DEALERS IN Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, CARPETINGS, OIL CLOTHS, &c. Also, a large line of Cloths and Cassimeres. 137 State· Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. JOHN]. HAGIN, Manufacturing Tobacconist. COLLEGE TRADE SOLICITED. Cor~ State an.d Barrett, Schenectady, N. Y. J. C. DUELL, DENTIST, ! con- /.' 47 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Dr. i · .. ·. TEETH EXTRACTED WITHOUT PAIN. I. re- i I the 1 all ap- · an- efits. s, DY. JOHN SCHUMACHER, BOOTS AND SHOES. Repairing neatly and promptly done. 267 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. SULLIVAN'S OYSTER BAY. OYSTERS AND REFRESHMENTS. \YANK\ SULLIVAN. Ellis Block, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. GREENE & DUELL, DEALERS IN CO-ilL AND WOOD. Office, 22 Wall St. Yard, 23 Dock St.; .. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. J. G. Greene. Jas. Duell . WILSON DAVIS, _i_ld.ERCH.ANT TAILOR_, r 15 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N. ·y. A. BROWN & SON, Upholsterers and Furni tllr'e MANUFACTURERS, 154 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. BURGESS & BUSKERK, PHOTOGRAPHIC AR TI:ST:s:, 105 and 107 State Street, ScHENECTADY. REID'S BOOT AND SHOE STORE. HAN AN & ·REDDISH'S Gents' Hand-Sewed Slioes a specialty. r63 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. C. VAN S IJ Y C K, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in COAL, WOOD AND FLOUR, 57 Centre and 7 Pine St., Schenectady. H. S. BARNEY & CO., DEALERS IN DRY GOODS, CARPETS, OIL CLOTHS, House Furnishing Goods, &c. State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. S. FARRELL, DEALER IN Confectionery, Fruits, Nuts, &c. Cor. State and Centre Sts., ScHENECTADY. AUG U S T S C H M I D T, Shaving and Hair Dressing Parlor, 162 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y.

. lV THE CONCORDIENS1S . SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, Continues to receive orders, and to furnish, with promptness, THE BEST AND LATEST IMPROVED CDAL OR WOOD BURNING LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES, AND OTHER Railroad Machinery, Tires &c. And also to repair and rebuild locomotives. The above \vorlcs are located on the N. Y. g. R. R,., near the center of the State, and possess supe-rior facilities for forwarding \VOtk to any part of the country. CHAS. G. ELLIS, WALTER MCQUEEN, EDWARD ELLIS, JOHN SWIFT, President. Vice President. Treasurer. Supe1~'intendent. ARMBRUST, \THE\ CUSTOM TAILOR l Repairing nicely and quickly done. 187 State St. (up-stairs), Schenectady. H. W. DENNINGTON, Central News Room, STANFORD BLOCK, i . No. 195 I-2 STATE STREET, [ Keeps constantly on hand all kinds of Daily and Weekly 1 Papers, Magazines and Periodicals, ~~ I In'l.ported and Domestic Cigars and Tobacco. I Also Manager of the Western Union Telegraph Office. I : - Vo 'I, laure~ pursu 2, guage and E 3· ment tion, accun inum field -v 4· select one w · · compl T and 1S Delaware & Hudson Canal Co.'s W. C. BAKER, i . ' COAL AT THE VERY LOWEST MARKET PRICES AT 92 UNION STREET. ANDREW McMULLEN, A~ent. JAIVfES DIMENT, DEALERI:tf STOVES, RANGES, &c. UNION HALL BUILDINQ, SCHENECTADY. MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN MEN'S, LADIES' AND MISSES' BOOTS AND SHOES, 168 pTfiTE pTREET, SCHENENECTADY, N.Y. DOWNER & HOGEBOOM, DRUGGISTS 0 J 195 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. A Complete Stock of Drugs, Medicines and Fancy Goods. Also Havana Cigars. i . H~ IOI BO Jac Colleg