S, the :.~ S, i ' ' ! I f I THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., DEcEMBER, 1877. No. 2. UNION UNIVERSITY. REV. E. N. POTTER, D. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. -o- , 1. CLASSICAL CouRsE.-The Classical Course is the usual bacca- laureate course of American coHeges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2, SciENTIFIC CouRSE.-ln th.e Scientific Course the modern lan- guages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies is increased. 3· SCHOOL OF (.iiVIL ENGINEERING.-The student iH this depart- ment enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed, in the course of instruc- tion, in its collectiOn of models, instruments and books, the accumulations of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusal facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE.-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For Catalogues, or for special information, address E. M. JENKINS, REGISTRAR, Schenectady, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1889. LEVI T. CLUTE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN HATs, CAPs, FuRs, TRUNKs, Traveltng Bag·s, Umbrellas, &c., IOI STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. JAMES H. BARHYTE, BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER OF Jackson's Mechanics, Optics, Acoustics, Trigonometry and Conic Sections. Also on hand PROF. TAYLER LEWIS' WoRKS. College Rooms Papered and .Decorated. Binding done to order. III STATE ST., SCHENECTADY,' N. Y. DEPAR.TMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICA~ CoLLEGE.-Termcommences First Tuesday in Septe~nber ~~d c-ontml!es twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combmes cl~mcal !eachmg, w1th le~tures. Special opportunities for the study of chemistry and of practical anatomy. ExPEt\SEs.-Matriculation fee, $s. Term fee, $roo. Perpetual Ticket, $rso. Graduation fee, $25. Dissecting fee, $5. Fee for labora- tory course, $ro. I Iistological course, $w. For Circulars, address, PROF. JACOBs. MOSHER, M.D., REGISTRAR, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL.-The Course of Instruction consists of three terms: the first commencing September 4th, the Second N overn- ber 27th, and the third March sth ; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study ot the law, at Albany, are as great as can be found anywhere. The Law Library of the State is open to Students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Fee for single term, $so; for two terms, $go ; for three, $r3o. For information, address ISAAC EDWARDS, LL.D., DEAN, Albany, N. Y. THE DUDLEY OBSER.VATOR.Y. This Department of the University is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information, address PROF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO 55 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Photographers of YALE, HARVARD, PRINCETON, WESLEYAN, DARTMOUTH, LAFAYETTE, AN- DOVER, ABBOTT, PHIL. ExETER, PHIL. ANDOVER, VASSAR AND UNION. PLAIN AND COLOH.ED PI-IOTOGR1\PHS FROM LOCKET SIZE TO FULL SIZE. GROUPS, CoMPOSITION PHoTOGRAPHS AND VIEWS. COLLEGE ALBUMS IN GREAT VARIETY. VELVET FRAMES, CARTE DE VISITE, VERY CHEAP. ~ Our Art Gallery always open to visitors, and ex- planations ireely given.

. . 11 THE CONCORDIENSJS . ALBERT LA WTENSLAGER, . MANUFACTURING JEWELER AND DIAMOND SETTER, WIIJLIAM, STOOPS, MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALER IN CLOTHS, CASSIMERES, VESTINGS, ETc., 107 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WOOD BROS., 594 BROADWAY, A N Y SHIRTS MADE TO ORDER AND READY MADE. · LBANY, · . • Orders for any College Badge solicited and filled with the best material which the market affords. WALTER F. I-IURCOMB & CO., MERCHANT TAILORS AND IMPORTERS, 15 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. VANITY FAIR, FoR MEERSCHAUM AND CIGARETTES. ~DOES NOT BITE THE TONGUE.~ Our Cigarettes are as fine as can bn produced. Only the best French Cigarette Paper is used, which. is free from mineral and other injurious substances. L'AMERIQUE, CoRRECT THING FOR DINNER AND WHIST PARTIES. A delicious Cigarette, of Perique and Vanity Fair. Samples, 15 cents. Highest A ward, Vienna, 1873, and Centennial, 1876. Our PEERLESS and PLAIN FINE CuT CHEWING are unsurpassed- the only brands receiving the Vienna Award. Always Uniform and Reliable. (s Prize Medals.) WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., Peerless Tobacco Works, Rochester, N.Y. A LARGE LINE OF TJNDERWEAR. ALL THE LA TEST STYLE SCARFS, TIES, COLLARS, &c. 133 STATE STREET, Sc:HENECTADY, N.Y. BOOTS AND SHOES. Particular attention given to custom work and repa1r1ng. JULIUS BALLART, Agent, 245 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. )\ .,' BYRON E. NEAR, STATIONER AND JOB PRINTER l UNION HALL BLocK, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. ~AGENTS FOR COOKE'S RUBBER STAM.PS. i \ GEO. ]. SWORTFIGUER & SON, Nos. 65 and 202 STATE STREET I I SCHENECTADY, N. 1 1 . I l . CROCKERY. China, Glass and Earthenware, Kerosene Lamps, Silver Plated Ware, Cutlery, House Furnishing and Fancy Goods. I OSCAR D. REXFORD; DEALER IN CHOICE GROCERI~S, TEAS, COFFEES, SPICES, TOBACCOS AND CIGARS. 265 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. f . f - Vc M T M 0 p 1 0 D V\ M S1 0 G T T B A B A T 0 T V\ A T A Pl J. U01 all< . fill cec do1

Y. DE. Y. S. Y. )\ .,'' THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. I. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., DEcEMBER, 1877. No. 2. LITERARY . MIDNIGHT. Midnight, I love thee ! Whether thou spread'st above Thy kindling heavens and thy cool dews descend, Mixt with the soft light of the virgin moon, Or tempest blacken on thy awful front, Pregnant with lightnings, and with whirlwinds dire, 1 love thee still. In all thy changeful moods, Or fierce or mild, a power invisible Doth ever walk thy wide and shadowy realm, Whose sceptered touch is magic to the soul ; Moulds it anew; arms it with angel strength; Stirs it with heavenly visions and the hope Of glory, and the taste of endless joy; Gives grand converse with the mighty dead; The awful mystery of life reveals- The life that now is and the life to come. Beneath the gairish day we learn the world, And how to treat with all its busy cares ; But this wide silence, and these dewy ho_urs, Are the soul's teacher ; legates sent from Heaven To give it grand revealings -lessons high Of Life and Death, Eternity and Time. To tune its grateful voice to sweet accord, With seraph songs and notes of heavenly harps, And wondrous symphonies that stir through all The glorious universe, and whisper praise And worship in the Eternal ear. PUBLIC OPINION AS THE THEORY OF PRACTICE. A PRINCIPLE charact~rizing every age, but none to the extent of the present, is that of allo-wing the opinion of the masses to deter- mine one's course of action. To allow the justice of this method and con- cede that one should be so governed is to doubt (partially, at least,) our ability to decide for ourselves, and admit that a person's supe- rior judgment is secondary to that of those in every phase of life, \Vho are unavoidably influ- enced by prejudice or partiality. Could we be assured that the opinion of men ·would be unbiased, and that candid, truthful decisions would be given in every case, it would be a priceless boon indeed to possess a criterion for all our conduct; but in light of the fact that self or party interests or regard for institutions always influence the result, it is left to the indi- vidual to weigh the merits of the case and de- cide as to his course of action. While we allow the beneficial influence of this principle in restraining crime, in promoting a healthful public feeling, and in elevating a general patriotic regard for our \velfare as a nation, yet it ·is not so much here as in the every-day life of an individual that it exerts its greatest power, determining his course through life. It is not the constant endeavor in the same channels which brings the greatest reward. Some of the grandest facts of this and former ages had their inception in the breasts of men willing to take a stand alone and be deemed heretics, if need be, for the sake of their ado?ted principles. In the history of the early church it required staunch belief in their chosen idea of the right to induce men to for- sake the old faith for the new, and thereby for- feit property, happiness, nay, even more, that which man holds most dear, his life, yet in the stand taken by these Christian men, and in their example transmitted to posterity, are based our hopes for liberty and happiness, while it furnishes us with an example, scarce to be imi- tated, of heroic self-sacrifice and undaunted courage. A precedent of every act is not a guarantee

14 THE CONCORDIENSJS. of success. If so, where had been the revela- tions of science or the victories of ar·ms decid- ing the destinies of nations? It is because of the firm conviction in the hearts of but few, may be, of the superiority of new ideas over the old, that the world has taken the mighty strides \vhich have marked the present age, re- vealing facts unthought of before, and demon- strating the practicability of inventions of world-\vide irnportance and fa1ne. But the question may arise, are \Ve justified in forsaking established custo1ns for newly-developed theo- ries? If they elevate man in benefiting society or ennoble our own selves, that is surely a suffi- cient reason for the adoption of such principles. Moral courage is needed, courage like . that which led one of the grandest of orators, as he was the humblest of men, to say, \'fhis one thing I do.\ The rich endowments of the mind are capable of reaping the choicest re- wards in every field of investigation, and may do so, when the stand is fully taken upon the side of truth and justice. W. TEACHING AS A PROFESSION. AMIDST all this universal ad·o about educa- tion, it may be well to descend a little below· the surface and to inquire whether the office itself of a teacher has occupied that place which it ought to hold in public estimation. Has not the public mind been slow in coming up to a due sense of the true dignity and importance of the great business of instruction? Have talents and services devoted to this work com- manded that admiration or pecuniary requital which they would have insured in any other of the liberal professions? We do not speak of individual instances, as there are always excep- tions to the general rule. But has the profes- sion of teaching~- as a professz'o;z- had that high rank assigned to it which, from its high responsibility, its intrinsic importance and the rare qualities which are requisite for its success- ful prosecution, it properly demands? We often hear the faithful and successful teacher spoken of as a public benefactor; but does the public manifest its gratitude by 1nunificent liberality which covers him with abundance and secures his entire devotion to the work by placing himself and family beyond the reach of want ? We know of no employ1nent that demands such skill, such preparation, such rare qualities, and such constant labor, and yet is so inadequately paid. Did any one ever know of a pension, be it ever so small, settled on the veteran teacher who has been forced from his ' labor by age? Does a grateful public manifest ' · its gratitude by showering him with lzonors P Was it ever heard that the most brilliant sue- · cess in the capacity of a teacher was a recom- mendation to any station of honor? In the common intercourse of life \vhat declaiming de~ pa~ cor of tgn thE wit anc the 1 soL for An den1agogue does not fill a larger space in the 1 . • eta public eye, and gather a larger share of public · · · me estin1ation? This inadequate estimate of the i · · ste services of a professional teacher does not end \ ] with individual injustice, but it cramps the . operations of every department of instruction. .. spt · ·. sur On the other hand, let us look at some of the tiel . thE · tns lea qualifications \vhich are requisite worthily to discharge the functions of a teacher. He must have a ready, various, well-arranged and accu- rate kno·wledge, and, \¥hen we consider what subordinate qualities are requisite for its sue- spl cessful communication- what diligence, what thE patience, \vhat self-command, what discrimina- ! thE tion, what quickness of perception, what\ firm- I.· gu' ness, and \vhat entire devotion of the whole 1 1 sot soul to the ·work- \Ve may ·well ask, \And ~ thi ' who is sufficient for these things? \-E. P. L. · tro THE TRIUMPH OF IDEAS. THE practical man, the busy worker in poli- i · tics, is wont to look with scorn upon the man of ideas, the student of tnerely theoretical wis- dom. He forgets that the world is governed by ideas, that ho\vever expediency may rule the hour, the great powers of Right and Justice · and Truth have ever ultimately won the vic- tory, and have led the great march of progress on in spite of Falsehood and Injustice and Wrong. The patient student of the past is ever up- borne by this sense of the final triumph of all that is noble and good. If the present looks dark, if the clouds overshado\¥ his country's ·of 1 shi Flc rna age: anc ac cor wh nat fal! a 1 to- bel al: arc

THE CONCORDIENSJS. IS of s so N of the his ' · est P SUC- the the 1. end \ the y to sue- firm- And L. poli- man WlS- !···· l I l ' ' destiny, and all the precious fruit garnered by past generations seems likely to be blasted by corruption and misrule, he turns to the pages · of history and gathers there comfort and re- newed inspiration. When he reads of the utter · ignorance, the barbarous ferocity, the tyranny, the servility that branded the Middle Ages as with an iron, the clouds of the present break and he sees how glorious, how comforting is the prospect for his country. But the student, not content with the con- solation derived from study, seeks deeper still for the causes of the progress of Humanity. And he finds it, not in the foresight of poli ti- cians, not in the temporizing policy of states- men and the intrigues of kings, but in the steady growth of ideas. Looking beneath the tissue of frauds, con- spiracies, battles and murders which form the surface tnatter of history, he beholds the pa- ·. tient and humble workers for man's welfare: the scnolar, who looked to preceding ages for inspiration, and gave his age the benefit of learning which was uncomprehended and de- spised; the poet, whose soul revolted against ·. the wrong and injustice of power and thrilled the popular heart \vith his lays; the priest, sin- gular among his class for purity of life, vvho sought to show others that there was some- thing better than mere enjoyment in this troublesome world. These \vere the despised of earth, but their names, on the scroll of time, shine out as the beacon-lights of progress. In Florence, four centuries ago, there lived such a man, a great-hearted priest ·who inveighed against tyranny of church and state till state and church contrived to crush him, and he died rule a cruel and ignominious death. There was a , · contemporary of his, a brilliant young lawyer, VlC- who taught that right was ever to be subordi- gress nate to expediency, that lust and cruelty and and · . falsehood vvere to be the guiding principles of up- all a ruler. He lived honored and courted, but to-day the name of Nicholas Macchia velli is held up to scorn and his principles have become looks 1 ·a by-word of infamy, while the name of Savon- arola is bright on the list of those whom fate calls blessed. Such has ever been the lot of the martyrs of ideas; in their life-time despised, scorned and rejerted by ':veaker men, suffering want, disappointlnent, and seeming failure, but after death destined to the eternity of a fame which bears no spot of wrong, or injustice, or selfi.sh ambition. This should be our encour- agement to face all the petty insults, the mock- ery, and the injustice of this vvorld, and as long as we are upborne by a sense of the justice of our cause, we may be sure of ultimate triumph. THE SCIENTIFIC COURSE. IT has been found that the exclusive devo- tion of the great schools and universities in England to the Latin and Greek results merely ia a severe training in philology, which, how- ever important both in itself and for intellect- ual discipline, is, by no means, the chief and essential point of a proper modern education. The conditions of life in America make neces- sary a more generous choice in our studies than that of the ancient languages and mathematics alone. The remedy is, not that the study of the classics shall be prohibited, but that science in the broadest sense, and the · modern lan- guages and literature shall be admitted to the College curriculum. Twelve years ago Union College took the first important and decided step in this direc- tion. A second Baccalaureate course of study, the scientific, was then established. In this course the modern languages replace the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies is increased. It is intended to be fully equal to the classical course in amount of study, and in disciplinary value. The de- grees for each course are the same; thus signi- fying that graduates of the Classical and Scien- tific courses \ are equal, although in different \ ways. This wise step of \ Union \ has been followed by similar ones in numerous other colleges. It does not shovv that the \ classics \ are to be cast aside for easier and less valuable studies, as sotne have supposed, but it proves that the word education is hereafter to be more liberally and truly interpreted. F. V.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I ~ THE CoNCORDIENSIS : PUBLISHED MONTHLY DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR : BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. ED! TORS: J. F. GREENE, '79, CHiEF EDITOR. W. W. CHILDS, '79· F. F. CHISOLM, '79· N. L. REED, '79· R. C .. ALEXANDER, 'So. W. BRONK, 'Bo. LAW DEPARTMENT. JOHN C. PENNIE. MEDICAL DEPARTMENT. H. W. LAWRENCE, A.M. TERMS: One Dollar per Year, in advance. Single copies, Ten Gents. ADDRESS, THE CONCORDIENSIS, Bo.:c 481, Schenectady, N. Y. CONTENTS. LITERARY: PAGE. Midnight, - 13 Public Opinion as the Theory of Practice, - 13 Teaching as a Profession, - - 14 The Triumph of Ideas, 14 The Scientific Course, • - rs EDITORIAL : • Literary Societies, r6 Reorganization of the Theological Society, - r6 Damage to College Property, - r6 Sabbath Service in Chapel, - - r6 Protest against removal of cows from College pasture, 17 Protest against singing College Songs at night, etc., - r 7 Gillespie Club, - r7 Resignation of Dr. Lowell, r8 Receptions of President and Mrs. Potter, :r8 Scientific Association, - r8 Freaks of Students, rg Locals, - - rg Persor1als, 22 Paragraphs, - - 23 EDITORIAL. WE take the following from firank Leslie's \Sunday MagaziJrze:\ ''We have read a state- ment which seems almost incredible. It is to the effect that the students of Vanderbilt's U ni- versity, during the course of one year, inflicted on the property datnages to the amount of only four dollars- not two cents apiece. Each student deposits five dollars for such repairs, and the item states that the whole amount was refunded each man.\ \We trust this is true. If so, the students of that University are marching in the lead of modern civilization. There may be errors abroad, there may be passions in men, but the civilization of a community, as that of a man, is largely marked by the treatment of public property. No matter who he is, he is a savage who whittles the benches, the fences, and the trees that belong to the public, or in any way defaces or lessens the value of any picture, I st~tue, or other article of public property. A man of honor would rather destroy a hundred dollars' worth of his own property than even through carelessness injure what belongs to the public.\ If Nashville boys have this wholesotne re- IT gives us pleasure to note the increasing interest in our Literary societies. Upper class- men are seeing the importance of these aids to·ward a complete education, and are using commendable zeal in urging those who are their juniors in the course, to avail themselves . of the advantages offered by the debates and · gard for college property, we think they are worthy of en1 ulation in this respect by the members of ''Old Union.\ Granted that the damage is done thoughtlessly, should not the sense of justice and honor be so great here that public sentiment will be thoroughly against the man, whoever he may be, who vvantonly breaks windo~ws, defaces public rootns, or other- wise injures that in which we all have a com- \ . tnon interest? WE have heard many times of late, the ques- tion asked: \Why can't we have a service in the Chapel on Sabbaths?\ This was not the expression of a desire for the old Sunday morn- ing chapel. We hope that has passed a way to return no 1nore. What· is wanted is a ser- mon adapted to the wants not of the com- munity at large, but of college students. There are many privileges, duties, and temptations, peculiar to student life. Sermons which are delivered at rare intervals for us especially, other exercises. WE understand an effort is being made to reorganize the Theological society. This had formerly the supervision of Christian work in the College, and the need of organization suitable for carrying this work on successfully has been much felt since the society was dis- continued. We hope those interested in the spiritual welfare of our College will give this subject their attention. sho the legl the ver we we Re· sho tw< ' ver to rul1 wal sto VlC thE ffil~ int ·wh . VOl fro cat hin lac abl ere pla tw1 (nc cat act ke< of CXJ SOt th~ str . tnE \l- beJ Bu

to of was of of the the way A dred even the re- are the the the here com- ques- 1n t the away ser- com- h are ' I \ ' THE CONCORDJENSIS. I7 show that this is understood. We know that majority of the Dorpian people, for we have the reason given w·hy we differ from many col- • heard many of those who might be most annoyed leges in having no service of our own, is that express the opinion that our singing was rather there is nothing of sectarianism in our u ni- · pleasant than otherwise, and most \enliven- versity. We rejoice in this, but inasmuch as ·. ing\ in its character. So, boys, go in. Shout, we are required to attend church somewhere, • howl, sing and groan as much as you please; we think that a Faculty embracing at least six keep clear of the copps, and the peaceful citi- Reverends,. of almost as many denominations, : zens of Schenectady are your friends. should give us a discourse at least once every · two weeks in the Chapel. We might add to this, that the greater con- . venience of such a service would induce many to attend, who no\v prefer to disregard the rule which pertains to church-going, rather than walk half or three-quarters of a mile on. a . stormy Sabbath morning to attend divine ser- v1ces. WE solemnly protest against the retnoval of the milch kine from the College pasture. We miss the pleasant sound of the milk streaming into the wash-pitchers at all times of the night, ·while occasionally you could distinguish the voice of the milker, reciting select passages from profane history, as a well-directed kick caused him to relinquish his hold, and pick up himself and the shattered pitcher from the lacteous ruin around him. Now it requires five able-bodied men to milk a cow properly. One creeps up and wakes the \critter\ from her placid slumber, and seizes her by one horn; two more come up and lay hold respectively (not respectfully) of the other horn and the caudal appendage; another proceeds to the active duty of drawing the milk, ·while the fifth keeps off and guards again,st the interruption of officious intruders. Milking here requires experience and decision. WE notice in the city papers a protest by some unmusical citizen against the custom of , the students of singing College songs on the streets at night, on the ground that our rollick- ing snatches of song, interspersed with frequent \Hikahs give great annoyance to the slum- bering populace, and especially to invalids. But we do not regard this as the voice of the IT is our pleasant duty to present to the readers of the CONCORDIENSTS a brief account of an organization connected \Vith the Civil Engineering Department of the College, whose dignity and importance merits the attention of all lovers of science. The organization to which we refer is none less than the Gillespie Club, organized in 1869, under very favorable auspices, and in perfect harmony with the distinguishable la\vs of the College. It seems to have been introduced opportunely, and meets a want severely felt, as its history tells us of no opposing influences with which it has had to struggle. Its growth has cons~quently been marked, and to-day it is \vell rooted in the circle of engineering societies. It is a living memorial of one who long served and honored the civil-engineering profession, and who assiduously and patiently devoted the latter part of his life to the educa- tion of the striving student-- the late Prof. Gillespie. The Club is essentially engineering, its proceedings being in the interest of the pro- fession, and its members comprising those \vho are taking the engineering course. The Club has a large room in the north colonnade, well supplied \Vith papers, periodicals and other reading material; also, a number of well- executed drawings-- the labors of its O\Vn members. The original models by Mons. Olivier occupy a conspicuous place in the room, and attract considerable interest. The Club meets fortnightly, and discusses subjects of special scientific importance. Lectures by members of the Faculty and others are de- livered semi-monthly. It thus seems that every measure is taken to add interest to its proceedings. We urge every engineering stu-

I8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. dent to unite himself with this institution, so well recommended, so earnest in its purpose, and so scientific in its operations, and to take . active part in its maintenance. We are in- formed that Rev. Griffees has kindly promised to deliver a lecture before the Club on \ Engi- neering in Japan,\ which we have reason to . suppose will meet the highest expectation. We are sorry to see so little interest mani- fested in the College Musical Association. Last year it was a very strong organization ; all its metnbers seemed personally interested in its success; the meetings were frequent and well attended, and much solid training was accomplished. The success of the two con- certs showed what work had been done, and the interest manifested. But this year it is different. Our meetings have been few, and A brief notice was made in our last issue of •· these but thinly attended. Why is this? Is the report that Dr. R. T. S. Lowell had handed it because the '77 metnbers were the life of the in his resignation, and that the same had been . Association, and their withdrawal kills it? accepted by the faculty. This report proves Assuredly it seems so. Now, fellows, \brace to be true. At the last recitation of the term the Dr. announced to the classes J that up;\ do not let so good an organization go to the ground for want of support. We have as an instructor that was his final meeting just as good musical talent in the College now with them. Expressing his satisfaction with. the general ·work of the term, and in a few as we had last year, and there is no reason why the Association should not be as prosperous as earnest ·words stating the pleasure he had had then. from his intercourse \Vith the classes as men, and hopes of hearing favorable reports of future progress, he bade them farewell. In parting with Dr. Lowell we feel that the College loses one of its finest scholars and most careful instructors. As an au thor his name ranks high among the writers of to-day, and as a linguist he has few equal?· Perfectly at home in three of the modern languages and Greek, he is one of the few who are so profi- cient in the Latin tongue as to be able to con- verse in it vvith ease. To use the Dr.'s expres- sion, he could s\vim in it; and the readiness with which words come to him in the class-room made this seem no exaggeration. President and Mrs. Potter, with their custo- mary regard for the social enjoyment of the students, have been giving Thursday afternoon receptions during the month. These have proved very enjoyable affairs and have been well attended. It is certainly a welcome change from tedious recitations and cheerless rooms to spend an hour with our courteous President and his very entertaining lady and the select company which always grace their rooms .. Those of the students who miss these recep- tions miss some of life's pleasant hours. We understand that Prof. Whitehorn has the Juniors and Sophomores in Latin next term. While we regret that any additional burden should be placed upon Prof. W., \Ve are confi- dent that universal satisfaction will be felt by the classes at learning this. The esteem in which the Prof. is held by those who have re- cited to him is such that it needs no comment. The rapidly increasing facilities for the study of the physical sciences in Union are doing much·~ toward dra·wing around her a class of students anxious to improve the opportunities she is offering. But it is felt by many who are pursuing special branches, that there is a need of something that the recitation room cannot furnish; this, with all its power and ability, fails to estaplish an. independence of thought in the investigation of scientific phenomena; too much is taken for granted, and the mind of the student does not acquire that readiness in detecting error and promptness in the appli- cation of fundamental laws upon which his success, as a scientist, depends. He eagerly absorbs every thing that pre- sents itself, as another addition to his store ·C( it m 01 ti tl ti L a1 tc 01 w . Sl it C< 01 rE p~ sc lc v rE B

; . lS Is the 't ? 1 • to ave s as the by In re- . o1ng of are ught ena; his pre- store • THE CONCORDJENS1S. of knowledge, but neglects to fully grasp its · relations and consider its errors. There is a . The time made by MeN ulty in the hundred demand for some institution in the college • yards' dash was the same as that made by ·course which shall exercise and train original- : Palmer, College City of N e-vv York, I It seconds. l ·ty ·,. which shall make the student feel that he ·.· W d d The College were given from e .nes ay m ust dep. end upon himself, that he must not · h . noon until Monday noon in which to eat t · e1r only receive the products of former investiga- . tions, but must seek for himself. . Thanksgiving turkey. It is in endeavoring to answer this demand Familiar sight on Union street: Freshman that an attempt has been made to form a scien- with his oil-can. tific association connected with the college. The interior of ~Ien1orial I--Iall is being rap- Like all new undertakings, its institution was idly brought to a state of completion. The attended vvith difficulties; a plan of work had walls of the first floor have been faced with to be slowly and laboriously constructed, vvith- gray marble, and marble tiles are being laid for out previous material or experience upon the flooring. The whole structure, both exte- which to draw. Aided and favored on every rior and interior, presents a grand and impos- side, this long-needed institution has taken root; ing appearance. It is said to be the most its growth or decay rests upon those now in beautiful college edifice in America. college, for we are firmly convinced that if it Professor Perkins, lecturing on the nature of once gains a prosperous existence it \Vill be metals-\ Copper is found occasionally in South recognized as a necessity, and receive the sup- Carolina, where they often send it up here to p~rt of all earnest workers in the cause of college in the shape of 'brass.'\ sc1ence. Hon. Joel B. N ott, son of the able and dis- Its officers for the ensuing term are as fol- C 11 tinguished President N ott, of Union o ege, lows: W. D. Maxon, President; G. E. J\1arks, d who has devoted his long life to earnest stu y, Vice-President ; W. E. Johnson, General Sec- both of theology and science, has delivered a retary ; A. B. Moorhouse, Secretary ; J. E. . striking lecture recently in Nevv Britain, tn Benedict, Curator; A. Duane, Treasurer. Connecticut, on the\ First Chapter of Genesis,\ That hideous image in the rear of the Col- lege has had a varied and eventful history. When first imported from China it is said to have been perfectly l¥hite. Soon after it \Vas placed in its present position, some amateur artists attempted to beautify its appearance by an application of paint. One morning it a p- peared in sombre black, with red eyes and mouth. A few vveeks ago another change came over its complexion, transforming the black to a red god. Col. Pickett then tried his hand as an artist, and the creature issued from his hands of a leaden color, which, in our opinion, greatly becomes it. We hope all enterprising painters \vill desist from further attempts to change its color. It is extremely humiliating to Union College that her guardian deity should be so often metamorphosed to keep up with the pro- gressive minds of her students. which has excited so much interest that he has been invited to repeat it at the Church of the Holy Trinity in Elizabetl1, N. ]. - fVorld. Skating has already begun on the quarry pond in the rear of the College. It is quite amusing to watch the Southern Freshmen, who have never seen ice before, in their efforts to maintain a perpendicular on their skates. And occasionally you could. see one, in a rnanner more forcible than graceful, cotne down sud- denly on the bottom of his back, and then he cautiously feels to see if the shock has driven his back-bone through the top of his hat. Fun- for the spectator. The Winter Catal()gue of the Law School, just issued, shows a. membership of ninety students, twenty-three of \Vhom are from places outside of the State. Union College has six representatives.

..... THE CONCORDIENSIS. 20 The second term of the Law School began . on the last Tuesday in November. A written examination ·was held in relation to the subjects discussed during the first term. The class is well organized, and has not lost any of the · enthusiasm for study with which it entered. Dr. Wm. Hailes, professor of histology and pathological anatomy in the Albany ~1edical College, has gone to Germany upon important business connected with his department. He is to remain abroad about one year. The sessions of the Court of Appeals, the General 'Term, and the Circuit Court are now being held, and are largely taken advantage of We regret to learn that Washburne, the first man of the Class of '77, has become entirely blind. It is sad to s-ee one so young, so tal- . ented, and with such brilliant hopes for the future, afflicted with so sudden and s0 bitter mis- · fortune. He was graduated in both thc- classi- cal and the engineering courses with the highest honors, and the loss of his sight is undoubtedly owing to his overtaxing his eyes while in C()l- lege. We hope, however, that his blindness by the La'v students. The Hon. Daniel Pratt, ·G. A. T., &c., &c., in the early part of the year, delivered before the La.'v School his celebrated lecture on \Chemistry the Foundation of the American Constitution.\ An appropriate degree was may be only temporary. A Freshman, a fe\iV days ago, translated conferred upon him. At a .meeting of the Lavv School, the follow- ing class officers were elected : po11tJJlCS de terre, \baked apples.\ The skating park is again to be kept by Mr .. . President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . H. R. Northrup. rst Vice-~resident ....... C. G. Sutliff. zd Vice-President. . . . . . . . J. F. Manson. Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . F. A. Beckvvith. Treasurer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . R. Irwin. Executive Committee .... E. G. Wash bon, . W. A. Fleming and B. G. Allison. They say that seniors are always dignified, and, in every sense of the word, sober. They undoubtedly are. But \¥as it not a grave and reverend senior who, after returning on the hill from down town the other evening, was found sitting 011 the cold, cold ground, with his feet projected at an angle of fifty degrees through a board fence, trying to \varm them at the moon? And was not this same dignified senior in this same dignified attitude heard quoting select passages fro1n profane literature, and imprecating blessings on his unfaithful \Fresh- man \vho had let his fire go out?\ A member of the Chemistry class thinks that the verse, \Ho every one that thirsteth,\ should be an1ended to \ H 2 0 every one that thirs tetlL'' Smith, but this year it vvill be made on the Bennikill instead of the open river, which is rather too exposed to the \Schenectady zephyrs '' to be comfortable. The antiquity of \ye festive pokaire '' has been. clearly proved by the following verse, found in the book of the prophet Ezekiel: \ And the Lord said : ' I will show down my hand upon them and take a\;vay all their tin.' \ Practical jokes also are of great antiquity, for we find in the Bible, \And Balaam said unto his sons: ' Saddle me the ass,' and they saddled !zi11z. '' The candidates for graduation in the Medi- cal Department of Union University number thirty-three. The whole number of students The Knickerbocker Athletic Club of New York City held their inaugural meeting for athletic games at the Atner~can Institute bld.ld- ing, on the evenings of the 3d and 4th of De- cember. 1\tlcNulty, '8o, sent on an a1nateur's certificate, ·went down on the Saturday fol- lowing Thanksgiving. He entered for five events, viz., half mile-run, putting the shot, quarter-mile run, seventy-five yards dash, and the hurdle race. He was the only collegian among the contestants, and. some of the others seemed to conspire to defeat him, but could not, however, prevent his carrying off tbree prizes- a greater number than any other con- testant received. He lacked proper care from is I2I. w tl tl SI o: tc: h f( b t] 0 a f< p l c:: ......, a ~ ~ t t fl r s r t ( { t t ( l

the · . C()}- ted Mr .. is has : my tyt said they New for bld.ld- y fol- five shot, and 1legian others could tbree er con- from + 1HE CONCORDIENSIS. 2I want of an efficient attendant, though the gen- . tlemen of the Knickerbocker Club did what they could for him in the little time they could spare between the events. The track was very \slow having just been finished the morning. of the 3d, and it had the additional disadvan- tage of some very abrupt turns. Mac won his heat in e'z;ery e'l)ertt for which he entered. The races were started with so slight an interval between the finish of one and the starting of the next that he could not run in the final heat of the hurdle-race, which came immediately after the half-mile run. He took the first prize for the half-tnile run, and the second prizes for putting the shot and the quarter-mile run. Adams, the amateur champion of the United States, took first place in putting the shot, by a thro·w of 34 feet I r inches. The shot used weighed sixteen pounds- five less than Mac was in the habit of throwing. After the con- test was finished, Mac threw once for fun, and threw it nearly 36 feet. He was fouled in the final heat of the seventy-five yards dash, but had no friends upon the track to urge his claim, so that it was not allowed by the judges. The tnedals which he brought back are very fine ; they were designed by Luther, of New York. On the whole, we have every reason to be proud of the record made by our representative, and think we will try it again when another oppor- tunity presents itself; but will never again commit the error of allowing our man to go unattended. The Garnet, a publication soon to be issued by the Senior Class, promises, from a vie·w of the proof-sheets, to far surpass any thing of the kind issued from Union for many years. Not only is it superior in its typographical ap- pearance, being printed by one of the best publishing houses in Albany, but in the order, arrangement and originality of the matter, etn- bracing many new features, which not only add to its attractiveness, but also to its usefulness, furnishing much needed and valuable informa- tion to the students and to those interested in the College. It will be issued and ready for distribution early in the coming term. Tne editors, consisting of one n1ember from each of the Secret Societies, are the following:- Editor in. ~chief, S. Van Santvoord, J{. A.; Business Manager, E. P. Lansing, A. L1. iP.; W. W. Br.itton, ~- lP.; E. Hayward, Ll. if!.; L. S. Holmes, ¥. r. Judge Osborn, of the Supreme Court, has been invited by the Law School Faculty to make the usual Commencement address. It is sincerely to be hoped that he will accept the invitation. The following lines vvere written in a young lady's autograph album by one of the orna- tnents of the class of '78 : Heaven preserve the fair Augusta F1nm all things that may disgust her, Or in any way may fluster Equanimity so just, or Shock the faith of those who trust her By exciting her to bluster In such words as won't pass muster. 1\ria.y no ills, not e'en the custo- Mary griefs which thickly cluster R0und our life with pain make her stir. Ma.y Augusta aye adjust her P's and O's and mind no thrust her \\\ Foes may aim, nor false impostor Who with lies may dare accost her Till he almost has nonplussed her. lVIay Time, that scheming filibuster, Spread no deepening, rankling rust or vVorse than that, a hardened crust o'er Mind so bright, but with his duster So have burnished it, and brushed her Talents, that their glorious lustre Sl1all have dazzled friends and crushed her Foes, and have completely hushed her Envious rivals who have lost her Graces, for which they have cussed her, Which, however, have engrossed her Humble servant -- - - * * * * . ! ! At meetings held by the respective classes of the Medical College the following officers were elected : GRADUATING CLASS . Geo. W. Mcl.,aughlin ....... . Henry Lilienthal ........... . Almer A. Lyker .......... . Geo. L. Hopkins ........... . W. 0. StHlman ............ . Geo. P. K. Pomeroy ........ . A. H. Mambert ........... . Theodore St. John ......... . E. W. Carhart ............. . President. Vice-President. Treasurer. Secretary. Valedictorian. Orator. Essayist. Historian. Marshal.

22 THE CONCORD!ENSIS. ExEcUTIVE CoMMITTEE. '49· Thomas McKindley, of Charlton; Sara- E. D. Fuller, Chairman. toga county, N.Y., died Nov. 27, 1877. F. B. Sutliff, W. B. La Moure, '49· Maj. Thomas McKindley died Nov. 27th W. L. Pearson, J. H. Cotter, at his home in West Charlton, N. Y. C. A. Ingraham, C. J. Conover. '5 1. A. P. Crafts is a 1 eading physician in UNDER-GRADUATING CLAss. · Wolcott, N. Y. W. J . Nellis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . President. '5 1. Wilson is 1 ocated in Newark, Wayne E. F. Fish. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vice-President .. county, N. Y., as editor of the Newark Courier, J. D. Sherer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Secretary. a paper said to have a larger circulation than E. C. Collins. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Treasurer. any in the county. S. A. Burton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marshal. '56. Hon. W. G. Donnan is practicing law in The last week of the term, previous to ex- .. Independence, Iowa. aminations, has been one of ease and pleasure • '57· Thorburne paid a visit to his Alma Ma- to the Juniors, experiments having been sub- ter a few days ago. stituted for their usual recitation in Mechanics. '59· Rev. W. N. Randles is located in Glen- Prof. Price rendered the experiments not only ville, N · Y., as pastor of the Dutch Reformed instructive, but very enjoyable. Church in that place. '59· Alexander Gilchrist, Jr., is at present PERSONALS. '26. Rev. J. V. Van Ingen, D. D., a fonner resident of Schenectady, died Dec. I, I 877. 'z8. Rev. Wm. H. Wycoff, D. D., died very sud- denly at his home in Brooklyn, November zd. His acquiren1ents as a scholar were very marked, having attained rare proficiency in Greek and Latin, and being also well versed in the modern European languages and in Hebrew. He was for several years editor of the Bap- tist Advocate, but the chief labor of his life was as Corresponding Secretary of the Ameri- can Bible Union. Into this institution he put through all the years of its history that energy and ability which so eminently characterized him, and probably no man did more in shaping its policy. In his death society has lost a highly respected citizen, a~d Christianity an able and zealous worker. '28. Rev. John B. Adger is the esteemed pastor of a Presbyterian church in Columbia, s. c. '36. Rev. Robert M. Brown, D. D., formerly tutor and aftervvard assistant Professor of Greek and Latin in Union, is now pastor of a church in the vicinity of Poughkeepsie. '41. Hon. Hamilton Harris has been re- elected as State Senator. '44· Alexander H. Rice was re-elected as Governor of Massachusetts. practicing law in the West. '6o. Neil Gilmour is Superintendent of the State Board of Education. His office is in Albany, N. Y. '6 r. S. G. Hamlin is Postmaster of our ancient city. '62. Benjamin F. Wright is principal of the High School in St. Paul, Minn. '63. Rev. D. N. Vanderveer, recently of Kingston, N. Y., is now preaching in Chicago, Ill. '64. A. P. Strong is practicing law in Sche- nectady. '65. Talcott is a pro1ninent la\vyer in Utica, N.Y. '66. Tower is a towering lawyer in the city of Boston. '66. Curtiss is principal of the High School in Saginavv, Mich. '67. Rev. Teunis S. Hamlin is pastor of the Woodside Presbyterian Church, in Troy, N. Y. '67. Stanton has been recently installed as pastor of the Third Presbyterian Church in Albany. '68. Harmon is a lawyer in Detroit. '69. Fancher is preparing Freshmen for Union at Seneca Falls, N. Y. '6g. Sidney A. Loomis is practicing law in Little Falls, and succeeding well. '70. J. W. Hoag, Esq., of Wolcott, N. Y., ha Wl th Al v~ F . c A :Sc s. at st Vl c: l c c '- r j t ] . 1

. lll an . 111 ent the 1n our the of ago, tica, f the Y. as in 1n Y., THE CONCORDIENSIS. 23 has, since our last issue, taken to himse1f a. wife. I--le that getteth a wife getteth a good thing. May all happiness be yours, J. W. '74· F. J. Swinburne is practicing iaw 111 Albany. '? 4· J. F. Barker is practicing medicine 1n Albany. '76. Lawrence is studying medicine in N e\v York. '76. W. W. Baker is principal of the Little Falls Academy. '76. Hey,vard has swung out his shingle in. Albany. '76. Tovv-nsley is a Freshman at West Point. '76. Truax is a student in Dre·w Theological Seminary. '76. Jerman is polling medicine in Columbia, s. c. '77· Holman is studying law in Glen's Falls. '77· Jenkins is an engineer on the Charleston and Savannah railroad. '77. Albright is teaching and polling Black- stone in Albany. '77. Prioleau is a practical chemist in the vicinity of Charleston, S. ·C. '77· Akin is studying law in Troy. '77· De Treville is teaching in Columbia, S.C. '77. Whitlock is in a bookstore in New York · city. '77· La Roche is a divinity student in the University of the South, Tenn. '77· Johnston has gone into business at Cohoes, N.Y. '77· Fisher is a clerk in a bank in Columbia ' . S.C. '77· DePuy is connected with the New York Tribune. '78. Frank Hotchkiss Streeter is out of col- lege, and teaching school in Glen's Falls. We believe he expects to return. '78. Fred Bidleman will probably go South this winter on account of ill health. '78. E. F. Fish is studying 1nedicine at the Medical School in Albany. '78. P. I. C. Hoag is also studying medicine in Albany. '78. Sammy Rogers has started out in the study of the law. '78. Marks is a theological student at Divin- ity Hall, Philadelphia. '79· Thomas Waters is at work in Cincinnati. '79· Schlosser is engaged in teaching in Fish- kill, Dutchess county, N. Y. '79· Salley is in the cotton business in Charleston, S. C. '79· Tanner is studying medicine in the New York Medical College. '8o. Porcher, the hero of Troy, and the Blue Gate sentinel, is at home in Charleston. '8o. Vincent is teaching at his home in Per- sia, N. Y. PARAGRAPHS. WE have before us the first number of the CONCORDIENSIS, a handsome monthly periodi- cal of sixteen folio pages, published under the editorial conduct of the students of Union University. The initial number exhibits de- cided editorial ability, and such a periodical must serve as a valuable training school for workers in the editorial field.- Mining Record. \ It was pitched without,\ said a clergyman in church, and a young base-ball player, who had been cahnly slumbering, awoke with a start, and yelled'' foul.\ The first \base\ came down from the choir and put him out.- Ex. The students of Cornell University are mak- ing arrangements for a dramatic entertainment for tl1e benefit of its navy.- Ex. Four hundred pounds of poultry are eaten by the Harvard students on \ turkey day \ at Memorial Hall, and a barrel of fruit is used for dessert. The daily consumption of flour is about two and one-half barrels, and of 1neat I ,ooo pounds ; I 20 gallons of milk are drank eacl1 day. Young Ladies' College. Prof.- '' What can you tell of Pluto?\ Miss D.-\ He vvas the son ()f Satan, and when his father died he gave him Hell.\- Ex. Some men can never take a joke. There was an old doctor who, vvhen asked what was good for mosquitoes, answered : \How do you suppose I can tell unless I know what ails the mosquito.\- Ez.

THE CONCORDIENSJS. 24 A Theologue being asked at an examination · Will some member of the faculty consent to to give an account of J ezebel, answered : \Now deliver a lecture on \ The Tin Horn?\ J ez.ebel was the wife of Ahab, king of Israel ; · Union College has seven representatives in and behold Jehu and all his company came rid- Congress. ing up; and she was in the balcony, and Jehu. In a recent issue of the Cornell Era,. we said unto his men-at-arms: 'Cast her down;' notice a very sensible article in reference to the and they cast her down; and a second time cap and gown. he said unto them, ' Cast her down,' and a ·· . . second time they cast her down; and even a: Prof. A., to fizzling Soph. who don't appreci- third time he said unto them, 'Cast her down.' . ate the beauties of rhetoric-\ Mr. And they ask him, saying,' Lord, shall we cast. please read and correct the next sentence.\ her down unto seven times?' And he said Soph. (reading)-\ I confess myself to have unto them,' Even unto seventy-and-seven times one of those dull souls that doth not perceive cast her down ;' and they cast her down sev- itself always to contemplate ideas.\ Audible enty-and-seven times, so at last she died. And smiles around the room as the class perceived there was a sound of weeping and wailing • its apt application. Prof. (smiling)-'' Well,. Rachel mourning for her children and would never mind, take the next Sentence.\ Soph. not be comforted because they were not, and (beginning) -\ What an inferior creature I the voice of one crying in the wilderness, say- am \-. Here he was interrupted by such an ing, \Lord after the resurrection, whose wife emphatic pedal demonstration as the class of shall she be?'\ '8o best know how to make, and during the Now cometh the young man of the city unto confusion the class was dismissed. his tailor, and he saith unto him: \Build me Brigham Young has gone to a great summer an ulster. And make me a pocket in the sleeve resort, from whose bum no traveler returns.- thereof, of the space of three inches wide, that Ex. a maiden's hand may go therein. And see Scene in the chemical laboratory. Student that thou build the pocket thereof right over (giving formula)-\ It must be right, because against my funny-bone. For it shall come to it says so on the bottle.\ \My young friend, pass that she shall say unto me 'Go to, now;' bottles often mislead people.\- Ex. and shall tell m~. that I am horrid, and shall The Professor in Physiology \got off\ his squeeze my arm. regular joke upon an unsuspecting Junior this Scene- Sophomore and Freshman strolling year. \ Man is composed entirely of cells. through a pasture; cattle grazing in the dis- In short, man is one great cell.\ After the tance. Suddenly a heifer approaches, evidently recitation a lady student remarked to the Pro- bent on an attack. Freshman says: ''That fessor: \Remember you are one great sell.\ heifer is coming for us.\ Sophomore replies: \Yes he replied, \and remember you are one \I would rather hezf her not.\ It is needless to daHzscl.\- E.x. say that the Sophomore was conditioned that In the hat rush which took place a few weeks term. ~go at Trinity, the Freshmen and the leaders Prof. in Astronomy-\ In one evening I saw of the Sophomores were fined five dollars each, thirty-four meteors sitting on my piazza.\ and the standing of the most prominent men Class expresses great and undisguised astonish- on both side.s was reduced. -Ez. ment at the social character of the heavenly The Sophomore class of Kenyon College has bodies. been suspended for hazing. - Ez. The man still lives who last year translated The Harvard University nine was defeated \Venus candida veste ei apparuit,\ \Venus by the Bostons, score standing seventeen to appeared to him with a white vest on.\ one.- Ex. St2 ·G F: l\ 4~ j_ (

. . Cl- \ ble ell,. ph. I an s of the mer s.- a use ' his the Pro- sell.\ one each, men has feated to THE CONCORDIENSIS. 111 CARL.EY HOUSE, State Stireet, cor. Centre, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. Class and Society Suppers a specialty. DEVENDORF & CO., Proprietors. WILSON DAVIS, _Ll!f_EROHANT TAILOR) r rs State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. ·y. GEORGE E. VINCENT, A. BROWN & SON,· GENTs' FuR N r sH 1 N G GooDs, Upholsterers and Furniture And Manufacturer of the ANCIENT CITY SHIRT. Myers' Block, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THOS. H. REE\TES & CO., DEALERS IN Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, CARPETINGS, OIL CLOTHS, &c. Also, a large line of Cloths and Cassimeres. I3 7 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. JOHN J. HAGIN, Manufacturing Tobacconist. COLLEGE TRADE SOLICITED. Cor. State and Barrett, Schenectady, N. Y. J. C. DUELL, DENTIST, 4 7 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. TEETH EXTRACTED WITHOUT PAIN. JOHN SCHUMACHER, BOOTS AND SHOES. Repairing neatly and promptly done. 267 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. SULLIVAN'S OYSTER BAY. OYSTERS AND REFRESHMENTS~ \YANK\ SULLIVAN. Ellis Block, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. GREENE & DUELL, DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD. Office, 22 Wall St. Yard, 23 Dock St., I. G. Greene, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Jas. Duell. MANUFACTURERS, 154 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. BURGESS & BUSKERK ' PHO'fOGRAPHIC ARTISTS, 105 and ro7 State Street, ScHENECTADY. REID'S BOOT AND SHOE STORE. HANAN & ·REDDISH'S Gents' Hand-Sewed Shoes a specialty. 163 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. C. VAN SLY C K, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in COAL, WOOD AND FLOUR, 57 Centre and 7 Pine St., Schenectady. H. S. BARNEY & CO., DEALERS IN DRY GOODS, CARPETS, OIL CLOTHS, House Furnishing Goods, &c. State Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y. S. FARRELL, DEALER IN C.onfectionery, Fruits, Nuts, &c. Cor. State and Centre Sts., ScHENECTADY. A U G U S T S C H M I D T, Shaving and Hair Dressing Parlor, 162 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y.

THE ,CQNCORDIENSIS . . lV SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS. Continues to receive orders, and to furnish, with promptness, THE BEST AND LATEST IMPROVED COAL OR WOOD BURNING LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES, AND OTHER Railroad Machinery, Tires &c. And also to repair and rebuild locomotives. The above works are located on the N. Y. C. R. R., near the center of the State, and possess superior facilities for forwarding ,\rork to any part of the country. CHAS. G. ELLIS, WALTER MCQUEEN, EDWARD ELLIS, JOHN SWIFT, President. Vice-President. Treasurer. SUperintendent. ARMBRUST, \THE\ CUSTOM TAILOR 1 Repairing nicely and quickly done. 187 State St. (up-stairs), Schenectady. Delaware & Hudson Canal Co.'s COAL AT THE VERY LOWEST MARKET PRICES AT 92 UNION STREET. ANDREW McMULLEN, Agent. JAIV1ES DIMENT, DEALER IN STOVES, RANGES, &c. UNION HALL BUILDINO, SCHENECTADY. H. W. DENNINGTON, Central News Room, STANFORD BLOCK, No. 195 I-2 STATE STREET, Keeps constantly on hand all kinds of Daily and Weekly Papers, Magazines and Periodicals, In.J.ported and Domestic Cigars and Tobacco. Also Manager of the Western Union Telegraph Office: W. C. BAKER, MANUFACTURER AND DEALER IN MEN'S, LADIES' AND MISSES' BOOTS AND SHOES, 168 pT f.T:E f3TREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. M. A. LIND, Manufacturer of CHOICE SEGARS, And, Dealer in 239 State Street, SCHENECTADY. TOBACCO, PIPES, POUCHES, &c., - Ia p· 1I ti 51 0 c a