nt THE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. III. ScHENECTADY, N.Y., JANUARY, I88o. No.4· THE CoNCORDIENsrs. PUBLISHED MONTHLY DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. EDITORS: ~ JOHN ICKLER, 'So, EDITOR IN CHIEF. G. E. DIXON, 'So. A. H. DOUGHERTY, '8o. E. C. JOHNSON, 'Sr. W. E. VAN EPS, 'Sr. W. R. WINANS, '8r L. R. HARGRAVE, '8z. W. M. LEWIN, '82. TERMS: One Dolla.r per Year,. in advance. Single copies, Ten Gents. ADVERTISING RATES: Square, per issue, \ \ year, .. Business Notice, per issue, H \ \ year, Half page, per year, Quarter page, per year, Address, $roo - 7 00 75 500 25 00 - 15 00 THE CONCORDIENSIS, Bo.x 48r, Schenectady, N. Y. CONTENTS: LITERARY: The Watcher (Poetry), We Met by Chance, Incipient Profanity, The Maiden of Unai and Her Two Lovers, Rock of Ages (Poetry), - EDITORIAL: Drill should be Optional, The Poem 11 Rock of Ages,\ The Class of '83, - Be Consistent, - The Lecture-System, - The Gymnasium, The Seniors' Readings and Criticisms, CORRESPONDENCE : College Albums, Ingham and Clarke Prize Essays, .LOCAL: Local Bri.efs, The Alumni of the North-west, Delta Upsilon Camp, Tenth Anniversary, Alumni Banquet in Chicago, ExcHANGES: PERSOMLS: ,. - - - - - - - - - - 49 so 5z 54 55 s6 s6 s6 s6 57 ss ss ss ss 59 6o 6r 6r 6x 62 63 • LITERARY ----------------- -- ------ ------- THE W ATOHER. Mid: ... tight is past; broad sileuce falls O'er campus and o'er colleg@ walls. . The neigbb'ring town in slumber dreams; But still from many a window gleams, Here on the hill, the ray that tells Where yet the wakeful Rtudent dwells, O'er pages touched with less of light, The deeper wears the weary night. Profoundly da1·k is all without these walls, The black horizon seems approached so near The outstretched arm might reach It; overhead, A double darkness rests; not one small star Casts from the heav'ns its silent, loving glance; Shut from the world and shut from Heav'n,~we seem Cut off from man, cut off from God-alone. Eut now the banded shadow;:; break apart, And, gaining form and life, appears o'erhead A lH~ly face-a face in which shine out The blended virtues of all mother-hearts. fJ. 1 he eye is full of tender sympathy, fJ.,hat conjures quickly up those vanished days, When oft an eye like that beguiled the griefs Of checkered infancy; those 1nagic lips Are like the lips that pa,rted oft in smiles To see the antics of the joyous child. .And yet an inw:rought sadness lingers there, As if those eyes had dimmed with floods of tears ' Because Death's hand did pluck some little :flow'r That filled them once with soft and blushing·Jiaht· 0 ' And over all there rests so true a look Of fondest yearning none can see th~t face .And not remember, chance not long ago, He saw some mother watching for her child, And though her hea1·t, with hope defer1·ed, was sick She braved all doubts and fears and ever watched. All hope, all fear, all joy, all sorrow meet In that one face and mingle deep with love. The lips a1·e parted; clearly falls a voice:-

50 THE CONCORDIENSIS. \ 0 men, with passions fierce, ambitions wild, And eyes fixed on a goal beyond that .gulf Which passed exiles you from the Land of Peace- List to the voice of one whose watch has been Beside the couch of death since Man was born: Miue eyes are haunted with the constant sight Of Death; miue ears are sickened with the gasps Of parting souls; my days and njghts are merged In one long grievous watch o'er dying Man- • And thiR has made 1ne wise beyond myself. That creature born with .Self its only God Is born to die-to lose all sensuous shape Of being; doomed to fall again to dust, Unworthy higher place; that creature finds The most of Death which most for Self exists; And in the measure Self becomes its God, In that same measure Death o'errules its life; So men receive their judgement at the last. What is Man's life? A gust of sum1ner wind ! An echo in the night that faint and far Fails e'en to rouse the scarcely sleeping babe ! Scarce born ere dead, and yet, 0 men ! ye toil, A time, to build g1·and palaces, as if Your hours were years, your years were centuries; Then, shortly, at the upraised hand of Death, Go forward in the darkness lost to sight ·Of earthly eye forever; but ye reap That which ye sow; hence if ye sow to Self, The harvest like your fleeting selves shall be. But if ye sow the golden seeds of Love- . Kind deeds tow'rd fellow-men-your harvest fields Shall ripen 'neath a sun that never sets Celestial grain, your strength forevermore; For Love <:1loue, of all that mortals know, .Sllall never pass away; its precious coin Is current in Eternity; the soul, Shod but with Love, can cross the bitter stream Of Death, nor taste its waters; yet too weak Are human 1ninds to grasp the simple truth. Time, like a steecl. with swiftest.lightning shod, Bears Man from birth to death; ,.the infant eye ;Scarce opens ere its palsied lids are closed Forever. Thus, except for happy chance, Oft mighty truths re1nain unseen of men, ·That seen and understood, perchance, had changed The lives of mortals into better things. My watch has been with thee, 0 struggling man! I've marked thy trials, seen thy joys, thy griefs, And known thee at thy best \nd at thy worst; Thy noblest, wisest, are but v~ry babes In virtue and in wisdom. But the day Approaches o.f a deeper, truer life Fot all the earth; the task shall soon be learned That countless centuries have tried to teach; .And men shall know at last that when they strike .A brother n1an in rage, tlitey strike their God And bring upon themselves the centred wrath Of all the angered universe; but when They take a brother's hand in helping love, They do tl~at thing at which the Heavens bow And shake :from trees of Paradise the fruit ·That tasted, fills the soul with dC?athless peace.\ ZOR, '83. vVE MET BY CHANCE. Many of our students must have noticed : that fine old gentleman strolling about the col- : lege grounds for a longtime on Thanksgiving 1 Day. Everything· about hin1 looked so . strong and co1nplacent that no wonder sev · eral reports were circulated as to his posi- tion, that he was the ex-pr~sident of--- college, that he was one of our revered poets, that he was that noble Arnerican . sculptor from the neighboring city of .A.-- But this las~· surmise \vas contradicted by some who had VIsited the sculptor's studio, and \vho said there was, indeed, a striking resernblance in the n1assive but athletic frame, pure complexion, snowy beard and life-prob- lem-solved expression of them both, but that our Yisitor was at least ten years the artist's . senior. I think I \vas the only one who had the honor of conversing with this gentleman \V hile he lingered among us. I had wandered back a long distance fron1 the dormitories and st .. 1od on the upper side of the fartherest bridge, watching the brook exult over th.e sullen discomfiture of the early snow-fall. My thoughts had started fro1n the retnark a companion had n1ade to me on the same spot that he would sotne day have such a brook bounding through his own grounds, and had run on thence I do not know how long. I was living in the future, when a hand was laid upon my shoulder. But the touch was so eloquent that I understood it, and did not look up until the spell, V\r hich had held me,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 51 gradually broke itself. Then I turned and ficial manners. I an1 no longer surpnsed found the old gentleman gazing into the • or indignant that, therefore, my society \Vas stream as dreamily as I had gazed. When I not courted by fashionable collegians. My moved, his head slowly rose, he lett off lean-· consequent mortification did not, ho\vever, ing on the bridge, and presently took his long. prevent me fr )lU observing that mixed eyes fron1 the \Vater and fixed them on n1e. vvith ruuch affectation they had many quali- For all that the look \vas so dreatny I kne\v ties \VOrthy of my e1nulation, and 1 resolved it searched n1e through and through. Be- to be as fine a gentlen1an as any of them .. neath this passing cloud of disposition \vas ,, ~f.ean\v bile I \vas cut off from society sotnething in hin1 wh1ch would have fallen which nO\V I began to desire. In n1_y case, it off from tne if I had not been honest. Per- \Vas the absence of Eve that n1ade me pluck haps I \Vas under partial tnagnetic control. from the tree ot kno\v ledge. I read eagerly, I had no desire to check his gaze. I remem- as few ot you do no\v, 'Cicero, and Epictetus, ber only a phase of delicious frankness. He and Plu~arch, and Polybius '-'truth, elo. raised his hand from my shoulder and pass- quence, courage, constancy.' I travelled far ·ing it vvithin my arm, dre\v tne along the. in the pale realms of reason, even to the tern- path through ·the grove with the same re- . ple of pure religion, and dwelt long in the condite affectionateness \V hich 1 now rem em- sutnmer-land of song. I philosophized upon ber to have felt from the first. Returning by the development of civilization, and discov- degrees from reverie to reflection, from re- ered ho\v the arbitrary claims of good socte- flection to conscious observation, he can1e at ty come to have binding force, and that it length to relate substantially the following justly exacts a refinement in etiquette out of story. I can account for such confidence all proportion to the amount of thought it only by supposing that he detected and un- expends on ot~1er subjects. Many a night I derstood the intense sympathy \Vith which would car~y on these thoughts leantng out I listened to hirn. ot tny \vindow over the canal. It \Vas right \Just fifty years ago I stood \vhere you pretty to watch the oncoming and receding stand. I was a Sophomore in U College. boats, meeting or passing one another, and But that was before yonder buildings \vere turning out ot sight. Sometimes a packet erected. This hill I ren1e1nber as a favorite \vould come dashing along, and when the \-v-alk, and as the scene of a duel I happened passengers heard the students singing to witness between two Virginians. The under the trees, and sa vv the man_y-lighted college, in my day, \vas what your old pro- halls, they \Vuuld have the galloping horses fessors now call \Vest College. Beside it held up that they n1ight float silently along and close under rny window flowed the great until the head w3;y of th·e boat had borne Erie canal, and where the city school-chil- them out of hearing. dren now rornp and shout the dignified aca- \About my only acquaintance vvas with de1nic used leisurely to pace up ·and down, people \vho passed on the boats. I n1ight back and forth. indeed have had a rootn on the opposite side HI \vas a country boy, fresh fron1 a farn1. My father before n1e had studied Latin and Greek, and my rnother, als0, was educated. But their attention had been directed n1uch more to giving us children strong thoughts and deep morals, than to cultivating super- of the college overlooking the street; -vv here lived certain favored young ladies,-favored both by frequent but unsatisfactory commu- nication \vith young gentlemen across the \vay, and curiously enough by an unusual number of young-lady callers. I might have

52 THE CONCORDIENSIS. engaged in this harmless flirtation, but I pre- to \\?ork for others and upon others, to en- ferred In ore distant relations such as I held . gage in that transcenqent battle where soul With the passengers over the great \Vater- ·leaps up and grapples soul, to embark in a way. It \vas among these, I first saw a full- business where we handle not goods nor blo,vn, beautiful \Voman. She \\ 7 as standing . bills, but hutnan hopes, and loves, and des- upon the deck of a \Vest'vvard bound packet,. tinies. This-·· this is life! I have succeeded, probably t\vo or three and twenty, large and for I have been true to myself. I have not queenly. Her full glance caught mine, hung meddled with any man's individuality, nor for a mornent, \vhHe the rich color heighten- have I agitated any heart for my own pleas- ed on her cheek, and then fell. Afterwards ure or reputation. \'\ret when I go horne, I I thought of her n1any tin1es and wondered shall find a citv-full who love me and follow if she were not going to join her betrothed my lead. I have come back to this spot to in the wilderness of western New York. · spend my Thanksgiving day, because here I \Another day at sunset a boat passed gaily received the influx of those forces which by, and standing jn the stair case at the stern. have since operated to my O\vn happiness was a slight young lady with a face intensely· and my brothers'. Young man,\ he said, alive in every feature. As she rejoiced in and I shall never forget the lingering sweet- the glory o± the scene her happiness was so ness of that tone, \ n1y heart has cleaved to evident I could not but smile in ·sympathy., yours this afternoon. I believe your life ·she recognized my tnood without being of- will be li~e mine.\ fended, and when I t0ssed down a rose, glee- We had drifted down-to\vn and I left n1y fully clapped her little hands while it was venerable friend at his hotel. He departed falling, caught it and pinned it on her bosom. the same night, having 1nvited me to his 1\ h! those were happy days in college, too home. I shall go soon to visit him for 1ny quickly ended. If 1 were at home my wife desire to kno\v his wonderful wife is hardly perhaps \vould· show you the same rose faded. less than to meet himself. But whether I She might even tell you its history. Tf her see hirn again o·r not I shall ren1embe.r him failing strength pern1itted, for \i\Te are grow- as the noblest n1an I have ever met. ing old, my wife could teach you probably E. P. W. as much philosophy as any of your profess- ors. She has been my irnagination; and her intuitions are well-nigh infallible. \ Incidents like these and others more con1- monplace-that is with con1 rr1oner people, but perhaps such passages with comrnon people are the- most romantic-showed me I had the same nature with thousands of my fellow beings, and I might some day taste that most intoxicating pleasure, po\ver over hun1an souls. \ But. college days did end, and I sought tny fortune elsewhere. Long before I left college the ambition I had felt to be a gen- tleman had be~n satisfied and lost in other ambitions outside of rnyself. I \vent forth INCIPIENT PROFANITY .. In choosing a subject on \Vhich to \Vrite \ve usually take something which is o± great interest to us. This is natural, for it is uni- versally believed that \out of the abundance of the heart the n1outh speaketh.\ Now the subject I have chosen, though lying very near my heart, will in all probability not be a popular one. Questions that deal with the shortcon1ings or bad habits of society seldom are popular, but shall they be over- looked on that account? Shall the gaping vvound remain open because of the pain which the stitches necessqry to se\v it up will cause? Shall the patient remain sick

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 53 ~.because the medicine is bitter? Or shall \Ve: if she performs any active part in life, be dis- blame the physician for torcing upon us the gusted, sickened, by the words and expres- .nauseating co.mpound? Rather should we. sions, \vhtch she is daily and hourly called . .as sensible beings, bravely bear the prick- .upon to hear~- And though many men do .ings Gf the neerlle that the wound ma.y b.e kno\v enough to restrain themselves \vhen -healed, manfully shut our eyes to the fact. in the presence of ladies, they seen1 to think that the m·ed.icine 1s bitter, apd thank the. that they are free to use any language they -physician for causing us to take ag-ainst our \vill \Vhen out of the reach of feminine ears. will, that which he sees is necessary to our·. Is this to be a gentleman? May not a word well being. unfit for the ears of woman disgust a man ? l think it is a fact \V hich no one w·ill deny, · Have the angels no interest in the con versa- -that next to the sense of sight that of hear- tion of mortals? or is the Great Omnipresen_t ing is the most prized. In the human race ·so far a~ray that an irnpure word d~es not this sense is so delicate, and responds so ac- · catch his ear and cause a look of lovtng sor- o\curately so the vibrations that affect it, that. row on his face ? nothing is better calculated to con1municate . In a book which is rather out of date and pleasurable enlotions to the soul. And yet unpopular in_ modern society we are told: .how often we could wish \Ve had no ears! \Let your communications be yea, yea, and . We can shut our eyes to a sight that would nay, nay, for w·hatsoever is more than this be painful to us, we can forbear to touch con1eth of evil.\ Now though we may nev- that ·which would burn or othervvise wound er expect that conversation will ever be us, but close our ears to that which cuts us characterized by any such laconic brevity as to the quick \ve can not. this, yet still I think \Ve may learn from it In speaking in this \vay l have no refer- that unnecessary adjectives, though perhaps . ence to the pa1n inflicted by the cries of a in no respect wrong in themselves, n1ay lead . fellow -being ia anguish, for this only shmu.. to profanity. lates us to find out and provide tneans to We judge a man by his conversation. Ho\v allay the suffering; or to that caused by son1e n1any times have men before high in our re- ·_One next door learning to play a flute or spect fallen in· our estin1ation by using some violin, for in this case \Ve see a laudable de-. single vulgar word! How many times have :sire to know ho'v to play, and \ve put up we been disgusted by streatns of profanity with the harsh discords now, because \Ve heard in the street, and yet did vve ever con- know that it may one day be in the power of sider that that differs fron1 the \Vords \Ve use . this same perf.ormer to chartn us by the sweet- so freely only in degree, not in kind? Let ness of his melod v. But I speak of the pain us then be carefLil of our language. \V e inflicted upon persons ot refined and deli- know not to what it tnay lead us. Let us . cate dispositions by the improper, vulgar, or consider it a duty vve owe each other to ab- wicked expressions \vith which the n1en of stain from all such expressions as rnay offend our day are only too apt to interlard their the most sensitive ear. Let us think of the conversation, especially on son1e sudden ir- influence \Ve exercise over others, younger . ritation. If this were confined to the lower or In humbler positions than ourselves. We . classes it w·ould be bad enough, but \Vhen it can no more cease to exert influence ~p­ is so common in what is known as good so- on those a round us than we can esGape from .. ciety it calls loudly for reform. How often our s:1ado\v ; and as the brighter the sunlight .must the sensitive and pure minded woman, the n1ore clearly will the shadow be defined,

54 THE CONCORDIENSIS. so the n1ore \Ve \Valk in the sunshine of the • on their gifts, they were the same. Botb \vorld 's sn1iles, the more beneficial or the , loved her with the same love. n1ore baneful \viH be the influence \Ve exert. •· What availed it, then, that the S\veet-·maid Let us then in our youth ''take heed to our thought to accept the one who loved the \vays that \Ve offend not \vith our tongue,\ n1ore, for both loved alike? Sick at heart for the habit, a slender sapling- 1:vh.ich \Ve, and p1ning \Vith a divided passion, the nlaid- may rend asunder hO\V \Vith ease, may be-. en would meet them at her cottage-gate, come a giant of the forest, \vhich shall one . neither accepting the gift of either, nor re- day hold us in a treacherous em brace fron1 · sponding to the affection n1anifested in te11 vv hich there shall be no escape ; the rippling . thousand different \vays. brook \vhich w:e can now cross at a hound l\lonth after montb thus passed a\vay, when. may becon1e the rushing torrent \vhich shall at length the parents of the maiden, ashan1ed with resistless force bear us on\vard to des- of t~eir daughter's unseernly conduct, sum- truction. Let us no\v so· train the sapling, n1oned the two lovers into their -presence on that it n1ay, in the sun1mer of our age, forrn the platforn1 of the house in front of which. a shelter for our head ; and so guide and re- the river flowed. On its current a lone wa- strain the babbling brook that \Vhen it S\vells terfowl \Vas sailing gaily. ,. into a flood by the sno\vs and storms of the \Draw your bows,\ said the parents, ''\vho- winter of life it .may only the 1nore rapid!1y. ever shall pierce the bird shall have our and surely bear us onward to the haven of daugh~er.\ 1 t '8o.. The lovers twain drew bow at the same in- eterna res . stant, and forth sped two arrows parallel, and point to point. One struck the head, one the· TI-IE MAIDEN OF UNAI AND HE:J-( tail of the bird. TWO LOVERS.* The long contest \vas still undecided .... BY vVILLIAM ELLIOT GRIFFIS, A. M ., AUTHOR Neither was the better marksman. OF \THE MIKADO'S EMPIRE.\ Long, long ago, \V hen the people of Unai lived in houses resting on platforms built out in the Ikuta river, there \Vere two lovers wh0 sought the hand of the same maiden. One youth \Vas her neighbor. and named Mubara. The other was one Chinu, fro'ln the neighboring provin~e of Idzu mi. ]'hey were as twins in height, face and figure, and of the same age. Not only did they both con1e at the same hour of the evening to woo her, but when the maid looked after,vard up- Lovesick and heartsick, the maiden uttered a cry and flung herself headlong- into the stream. Father and tnother cried out in grief, but the two lovers plunged in together· to rescue her. One caught her by the hand,,. the othex by the foot, and in the swift current all three pert 'lhed together. With tnany tears and lame~tations, the bodies were drawn out of the water and ar- rang-ed for burial side by side. Into their O\Vn native soil were laid the maiden and the lover from her own coast. With him, in a large ban1 boo case \Vere laid ceremonial gar- * The original of this very ancient Japanese romance Inen~s, hat and silk sash with quiver and long which is founded on facts, may be read in one of th~ sword. The parents of the stranger youth Japanese classics, entitled\ Ya1nato l\fonogata1'i,\ writ- ten in the tenth century. Tradition ascribes its auth()r-. having laden a junk with Idzumi earth ship to Kuasan, tbe 41st Mikado, who reigned 985-986 brought it to U nai and laid their son in it,. A. D. The story was first translated in full by l\.1r. Easil Ohmnberlain, of the British Legation at Tokio. but buried no robes or arms with hi1n. And The ve1·sion here given is from a condensed popular there between, with '-'· lover on each side~.· edition of the stor:y., such as are sold for a few cents in r Japan.-W. E. G. slept the maiden of lJ nai. - J: 1 I

THE CON,CORDIENSIS. 55 Some time afterward a traveler pass1ng the aside · to lock. Lovers con1e from afar to night in the neighberhood of the ton1b heard· worship here, to pray tor true love's union, the sound of fighting. Finally, falling asleep, or to deck anew the triple ton1b. Nor do he· saw the bloody form of a wounded tnan the rustic folk of the country-side cease to who knelt betore him and beggt'd the use of· greive, alld many a pair of lovers still plight his S\vord. saying he was persecuted by an ·their vows here. ·The piled .up·~~_ stones that enen1y. Thongh much frightened the trav- mark the sacred spot, rene\ved from genera- eler lent hin1 his sword. Awaking soon after tion to generation, will keep alive her mem- hc thought it all a dream, but on looking for. ory, until the sailing -vv bite clouds shall for- his S\VOrd he found i.t missing, and the sound. ever vanish from the sky. of clashing svvords and the cries of combat- ants reached nis ear. Soon after the spectre· appeared who handed back the sword with. thanks, saying- he had slain the foe that had oppressed him for many years. He then be- gan the stoty of his lite and hopele'Ss love, ho\V he had been buried in his home-soil, but without robe and arn1s, while his rival had both; how his enemy with arms had perse- cuted him; how finally, having refrained from confli( t in life, he had with the bor- ro\ved sword 'von victory, and laid his enemy low. ~'Henceforth,\ said he, \1 shall always watch over your saiety.\ So saying the day beginning already to da\vn and tlle light to break, the shade faded into thin air, and the traveler \vas alone. When the morning was fully come, he looked at his sword and found it bloody. Pondering on the strange story he \vent out and visited the triple tomb and there from the foot oi the grave ran a tiny stream of blood. Centuries have passed away since the maiden of Un.ai \vas laid to sleep vvith her lovers. i\ thousand times have the pine trees borne their weight of snow, a thousand times have the cherry trees bloomed and drifted their petals to earth. A tnyriad of . moons have vv axed and waned, and the gen- erations of the stork and the tortoise number n1ore than ten. The River Ikuta has nearly dried up and passed away, yet still green and flower-fed is the grave of the maiden of Unai. Never a traveler passes by but turns ROOK OF AGES. ''Rock of ages, cleft for me,\ Thoug3?-tles~ly the 1naiden sung, Fell the words unconsciously From her girlish, guileless tongue, Sang as 1i ttle children .sing; Fell the words like light leaves down On the current of the tune-. '' Rock of ages, cleft for me, lJet me hide myself in thee.\ Felt her soul no need to hide; Sweet the song as song could be, And she had. no thought beside. A.ll the words unheedingly Fell from lips untouched by care, Dreaming not th'='Y each might be On some other lips a prayer- ,, Rock of ages, cleft for me, Let me hide mvself in thee.\ \ \ Rock of ages, cleft for me,\ 'Twas a woman sung them now, Sung them slow and wearily- Wan hand on her ach1ng brow, Bose the song as storm-tossed bird Beats with weary wing the air; Every. note with sorrow stirred, Every syllable a prayer- \ Bock of ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee.\ \ Bock of ages, cleft for me,\ Lips grown aged sung the hymn, Trustingly and tenderly; Voice grown weak and eyes grown dim- '' Let me l1ide myself in thee.'' Tre1nbling though the voi~e and low, Ran the sweet strain peacefully Like a :t.iver in its flow. Sung as only they can sing Who behold the promised rest-

56 THE CONCORDIENSIS. '· Rock of ~ges, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee.\ '' Rock of ages, cleft for me,'' 'Sung above a coffin lid; Underneath all restfully, All life's joy and sorrow hid. Never more, 0 storm-tossed soul, Never more from wind and tide, Never more f:rom billows roll Wilt thou ever need to hide! Could the sightless, sunken eyes, Close<l beneath the soft white hair; Could the nn1te and stiffened lips Move again in pleading praye1·, Still, aye, still the words would be: '' Let me hide myself in thee.'' -SELECTED. EDITORIAL. IT IS REPORTED that we are to have an- other drill-rnaster this term. And yet, this is not a militarv school, nor do \Ve think it J ever likely to be. No one, we think, has con1e to Union College with the intention of here learning the science ot war. We are a peaceful people. We do not believe in war. 'fhe old farmer exactly expresses our opinion in the lines : \Ez fer war, I call it murdel'- Thar you hev it, plain an' flat; I don't want to go no furder Than my Testyment :fer that. God hez sed so plump and fairly, It's ez long ez it is broad, An' you've got to git up aidy Ef you want to take in God.\ Let those who like it, dril:. T_here are many reasons why it should not be made ob_ ligatory, and these reasons have frequently appeared in these colun1ns. Many students can't afford to purchase uniforms, especially when the quality of the goods is poor and ·the price is high ; neither can they afford t-:: waste their time in marching up and down the campus, vvhen ten rrunutes exercise in the gymnasium is worth more than a whole hour's drilling. Are we to lose our birth- rights, simply because we are students? Do we, as soon as we enter colle:ge, becorne sub-. jects of Germany that we should spend four years in the h~bili1.aents of war.? We would · then beg of the \powers that be\ to let drill be optional ; and if enough volunteers be found to make drill a suooess, \\re will gladly caU it a grand good thing. THE poen1 entitled \ Rock of Ages,''. and ·published in another part of this nun1 ber, has attracted tnuch attention of late. At the · request of one of our readers, we publish it in full. If any of our readers can tell us who is its author, and the time of its composition we shall be pleased to receive such commu_ · nication. If the poem pleases cur readers in general as much as it has us it will not be out of place in our colurnns. We have heard it recited by both Miss Couthoui and Mrs. Scott Siddons, and shall be glad to hear it read well at any time. THE class of '83 is truly a noble class. Al- ways ready (?) to support any good enter- prise. A~tonishing as it n1ay see1n, yet 'tis true, that a whole third of the class support the CONCORDIENSIS; and it is greatly to their credit that this third comprises all those of slender means. Of course, it is reasonable and right that those students why pay their own way and for \vant of means hardly know if they shall ever graduate, should stand by the paper; but \Ve do not and cannot expect those of ample means to buy a paper. Yes, we are proud of you, '83. It you only con- tinue in the good work you w·ill some day be very grateful alun1n1 and w:ith lavish hand -vvill supply every want of your dear (?) Al- ma Mater. WE CAN'T in any way understand how any- body with even the slightest claim to hones- ty and consistency can week after week as- sume such a pious mien in prayer meetings, and then during the week act as if he had never seen or heard of such a place. We re- .a lt - 11 -~ tl tl .. () a -~ li ·s t - I <: .... .( l j 1 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 57 fer especially to those men who, taking an·.· but as it is, the \veakness of the lecture-sys- .active part in the christian work of the col-. tern is at once ·manifest. A student at a col- legce,pony 1n their classes at every opportu- .·lege \vhere this system of teaching is qsed uity. This ~ontemptible hypocrisy is truly speaks of it as follows: intolerable. vVe do not now speak of the· ,, We go into lectures, if \Ve can't get any- wrong of ponying in itself, for every one, no: one to ans\ver to our names at roll-call, and matter what he says, knows and believes it. sit there like sticks, trying to absorb kno\vl- to be wrong; but how can any one, guilty. edge and also to keep a\vake. In son1e in- .. of such gross inconsist~ncies, be so barefaced stances,, \V here the professor changes his tone as to n1ake such grandiloquent and \vould-be .·occasionally, we take a fe\v notes, but these .<levout prayers, as we have the pleasure of are never studied up until the end of the listening to fron1 titne to time. It may be a term. And then they are crammed into the ·source of great comfort to these gentlemen head only to be forgotten \\-hen exan1 iuation to knnw that their influence is a decided in-' is over, instead of being \vorked up into the jury to the college, and that many, even mind so as to form a vital pa1 t of it. And of those who do not take an active part, this is not the student's fault entirely, for he would thank them if they kept their seats, or cannot get the thread of the subject until ·never showed their heads inside of the door. several lectures have been given. ...-\.ncl there Let them remember that \acts speak louder is iittle incentive to work \vhen one's standing than words.\ 'vV e sincerely hope that there is measured by the final examination \vhich -will be a thorough reform in this direction. n1ay be easily cramn1ed through or ridden 1\he evil is not a recent but an old one over. Carelessness in lectures begets heed- ' and has taken deep root. If any one has lessness·in recitations. Then the whole n1ind never stopped to consider this inconsistency becon1es lazy, and careless ways of thinking in his life, it would be sensible in him to do and acting are the result. . Such a result is so very soon. Let the new year usher in a exactly the opposite of what a college course change in this matter. \Ve only ask you, should do for one. Instead of rousing one boys, to be consistent. If you make profes- to practical, careful, systemat1c study by sions, then hold to them ; it not, we have which alone one can succeed in life, it leaves nothing more to say. one in a lax and flahby state from \Vhich no MUCH is being said at present concerning the lecture~systetn in Ameri9an colleges. Wherever this system is adopted, text-books are for the most part done a way \Vjth and lectures take their place. It is a fact, well known among students, that one never knows how· much he can do, until he is hard presseci; and it is quite evident that one's capabilities .are never taxed to the utmost in sin1ply lis- tening to lectures. If the end of a college education were the acquirement of knowl- . edge and not principally the training of the mind, a question might perhaps arise con- .. cerning the superiority of the two n1 ethods, ~od can come.\ By tneans of the lecture-system the \Vork of both professors and students is greatly sin1plified. 'fhe former from year to year thunders the san1e lecture at his class, \V hile the latter bargains with the up}Jer-classn1en for their old lecture-books. A truly noble system, which bears the aspirant for knowl- edge, in his delightful ease, on its pinions, and \vithout any great exertion on his part, firmly plants him on the rock of sound learn- ing ! 0 glorious reform ! Welcome, wel- come to our college halls ! .l\ 11 hard work is abolished, and it might almost be said of stu- dents at college that

5.8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. \They scarcely l{now that labor is the penalty of sin, ho\<V he 1nade us \toe the mark\ in the early E'en as the. lilies of the field, they neither toil nor spin.\ part of our course, will now thank him that. T·he steep and \veary road to learning,. we were not permitted to skim over our work~ with its discouraging height, its dark preci-- as alutnni have frequently told us they did~­ pices, into ';vhich those \vho were too feeble under their professors, in years gone by. to sustain themselves, ~11, the tutors and.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ professors in the by-\vays, ready at any mo-i COf\RESPONDENCE .• ment to destroy the traveller, \vho, in his ________________ _ laziness, has taken to horse-this desolate. [A reaRonable space will be devoted to this depart- road \Vhich our forefathers had to clirn h, now· ment, conti'ibutions to which are solicited. The Editors. · are not responsible for any sentiment herein expressed .. runs along a smooth and lovely plain. On All contributions must be accompanied by the name of either side refreshing shade-trees adorn the the author, which, however, is not necessarily pub- lished.] way. Nearly all its travellers may be seen riding along \:Vith gladso1ne hearts and ha_ppy Mr. Editor: srDiles, some few are coached. Their faces It is an understood thing that the class of are not wrinkled by detern1ination, for no '8o, at least the greater part, intend to have- care-worn souls are they. Surely the n1illen-: their photographic work done by JVlr. Not- iurn tor students has con1e. tnan, of Albany. And it is to be hoped that. Now THAT we have again settled down to hard work, we wish to call the attention of the students to the gyn1nasium. There it stands with r0om enough for all, inviting you to spend a few minutes in it every day. There is no extra .charge, as at other colleges, though it probably is as well fut:nished as any gyn1nasium in the country. It would be foolish to plead lack of time as a reason for not attending, for it is evident that \Vith a moderate amount of exercise a 1nan will do 1110re \VOrk and in less time than without a~y exercise \V hatever. Bv SOME new arrangen1ent the Seniors have readings and criticisn1s in English Classics, together with essays on subjects as- signed, under Prof. Alexander this tern1. \. The object of the study is to cultivate a taste a manlier spirit will be exhibited this year than was last. It you 'Nill permit me, I \Vould like to call-the class' notice to a very impor--- tant though long- neglected part of this vvork.- In son1e of our American colleges it has. been a custom to present the institutions\ with albtans containing the pictures of every n1ember of the graduating class. Very no- ticeably has this been the case at Harvard ... - To some extent it has been the case at Cor- nell by the classes of '72 and '73, and at Union do\\rn to '6r. The albun1 would cost less than twenty dollars, I think, and the additional expense to each tnember would be so sn1all that 1 see no reason why 'So should not resurrect the custon1. When the thing is done the college has a fine volun1e added to its library. Will the Se'li®rs consider the n1atter? c. A. M. for the reading of the best Enghsh authors Mr. Editor: and to stimulate the mind to independent The subjects for the Ingham and Clarke thought. We are glad once more to be un- essays were announced to the Senior class late der the instruction of the Professor. His last term. I was rather surprised at the talks, his continued good nature, his entire a1nount o£ information given in connection fairness and thorough scholarship, readily vvith them. It consisted of this: Essays are win for him the confidence of all \vith vvhom to contain from two thousand, five hundred he con1es in contact. Those who re1nember to five thousand V\rords and are due May 20. 1

THE CON'CORDIENSIS. 59 - ---Someone has offered us the follo\ving conundrum: \What can you expect of a tnan who is forever either a tool or a knave?\ 1 This tnay be explanation enough for some ,vbo are well posted in Union Colleg-e tnat- ters, but for those who are a little slow in ld f h. h -Which of all the vowels is the happiest? . getting ho: . o t ·Ings or w . o are new corners I, because it is always in bliss; \V bile E is in h·ere, I think it quite. insufficient. hell and all the rest are in purgatory.-· Scis- Would it not be advisable to gi\Te some in- sors. formation about the donors of these prizes,· -Some one of the Seniors is evidently and as to who constitute the judges of our committing the\ fallacy .of many questions\ in President Potter's lectures on Moral Phil- attempts? Would it be asking too much to . osophy. have these things with \vhatever else might -· A certain' Freshman remarks that he has aid use in our work given us? c. A. M. ·so far controlled his fear for savages that he:P to-day, can look the Indians (Sophomores) in LOCAL. the eye without wincing. -. Freshman whistling at the table-Senior says to him : \ Here, .Freshie, stop your -Hard at work again. whistling; haven't you any manners?\ _Who says drill is optional? Freshri1an : \ Well, }Jass up the hash then.'' -Have you ever tried Wood Bros.' laun- -Poor Fresh, preparing for examinations: dry ? · \ Say, boys, what is the first of the nine hills of Rome?\ -What is meant by \Autocracy any- Eclectic of '7 9 : ,, vVhy, Mount Vesuvius, way? of course.\ -Who is going into the advaneed class in -Isn't it time for some of our Seniors to Optics? · invest in dog flesh? It would be too bad if -f'olitical econon1y is taught by Prof. our Professor in Alchemy could not get off Perkins this term. his old dog j-oke on some member of the -Inquis1tive Fresh.: '' Will they mark us class of 'So. in drill for not having a uniform?\ · · -A Senior said to a Freshman the other - \V e should very much like to know how day, \ See here, Fresh; they tell me you're many first scenes there are in Macbeth. . a great lunatic.\ fndifferent Freshman; '' vVell-I suppose -We are glad to her that Darling, '81, and so-It's natural you know.'' Holla, '83, are coming back this term.. -Where is the Freshman who stayed so -A Freshman reciting in Geometry begins: long Sunday night that \Juliet becoming \Let A B C D be a c£rcu1ncised polygon.\ \sleepy walked to the windo\v and ren1arked, -Let the Secretary of the Glee Club learn \I think we shall have a beautiful sunrise?'' how to spell \labratory\ or quit publishing. Come, Freshie, is it true? Up, defend yourself! -Prof. Wells addressed the German M. -We have been informed that in the ac- E. Sunday School in Gernlan on Christmas count of the fall games, published in th~ night. November number of the CONCORDIENSIS, a. -The Freshman in the Latin class vv ho n1istake occurred. In the race \ go- as- you- thinks that \ Mule'' comes from ''Mulier,'' please,\ Mr. l. G. Burnett, \vho won it, made must be a Jack. eight 1nzles in fifty-six minutes. -Prof. W elis has an article in the N a- -- \V e regret to state that T'utor La \¥renee ti.onal Repository on \ The \Voman Ques- is not with us this term. He was here just tion in France.\ long enough, to have becotne a universal fa- -Mr. Wallace has gone to the Auburn vorite. Prof. Price take his classes, \Ve Theological Seminary, and Mr. Reed has are sorry to s,ee so much extra \vork fall to taken charge of the Y. M. C. A. the lot of the already busy Professor. -Lectures under Dr. Potter, and recita- -The student who stnoked forty-seven tions under Prof. L' Arnoreaux ; solid work; cigarettes between Friday night and Monday no ' 4 skinning out\; no ponying. morning, drank twelve cups of coffee and

.. 60 THE CONCORDlENSIS. ------~------------~--~-~~~~--~~~------------~~----------~~~--~--~ fifteen glasses of sornething else, and then that he recognizes its descendants in the boot took a bottle of sooth1ng syrup, six pills, blacks of to-day. three seidlitz powders and half a bottle of -·.Lowell (Sigma Phi), Anable (Kappa AI- pain-killer because he didn't feel \veil, isn't. pha)·, Craig :(Alph.a Delta . Phi), McNulty·. here this term. · '(Psi Upsilon), and Dixon (Delta Phi) com'- -T,vo good sayings: · pose the editorial staff of this year's Garnet~ ''To become great in any profession, three \\1ork is begun and it is expected that this things are requisite-nature, study and prac- publication will appear earlier than usuaL tice.'' At the request of the above rnentioned gen- \ The more and the greater life's difficul- tlemen, we will say that whatever items,. ties are the tnore honorable it is to carry off likely to prove of interest, ~may be handed to the victory.'' them will be gratefully received. -· '' \Vell, 1---, I am glad to see you. -A stereopticon entertainment vvas given What are you doing this winter? \ . to the F1rst Presbyterian Sunday School, on '' Oh, I'm running a shooting gallery.\ Friday, Jan. 2d, by Professors Price and Sta- \ A slzooting gallery I [Amazed] Why, 1 ley. The entertainn1ent vvas a complete thought you vvere teaching.\ success. The audience made a very pleasant ''SO' I an1, teaching young i -\ trip (imaginary) up the Rhine, through Paris,. \()h for heaven's sake, J---, stop.\ London and Edinburgh, and also in this coun- And he graduated in '79· try over the Rocky Mountains. Everywhere -A large Bible in the college library bears the scenes \Vere grand and are not likely to the date of N urem burg, I 478, which makes be forgotten. Protessors Wells and Staley it 402 years old. It is printed In Latin. gave a similar entertaint11ent in the State Another book in the theological depart- Street Ivl. E. Church about tvvo \\reeks be- ment is over 500 years old-the writings of tore. Cyril, Basil and Chrysostom. We will an- ticipate some enterprising Freshn1an by hinting that the latter book was not printed. -Convers;ttion in recitation room. First student, '' Say, A , what did you get in rhetorical exercises last term ? \ '' Oh, I got ; I should never have had so much if I had spoken 1n Chapel.\ Second student, \ \Vhat did you get ? \ \ \Vh y, l got the very san1e 1.nark, and I shouldn't have had that if I had written more than one essay.'· -i\ Senior having his eyes doctoreci .dur- ing the vacation, exercised then1 until he c~uld converge at an angle of ninety degrees. Does this mean that he can look around a corner, and can it be possible that the Seniors are so afraid of leap-year that they must train their eyes to look around stair cases and street corners? Oh, '8o, '8o! How \Ve pity them ! Two leap years in one college course ! The first must have taught them a lesson. -Rapid strides have been made in the ad- vancement of the \evolution theory.\ Some one has lately found a prin1eval boot jack belonging, it is supposed, to the Eocene Tertiary. With great l~bor a!ld ca_re the discoverer has succeeded In tracing this crea- ture, in its successive development, through the Miocene and Pliocene l'ertiary and the {duaternary, and now confidently declares THE ALUlVlNI OF THE NORTf--I-WEST. At a meeting, in December last, of the (T nion College Alnn1ni Association of the North-west, at the office of Hon. Wrn. H. King, in Chicag-o, Ill., the follow·ing officers were elected for the ensuing vear : President, I -:Ion. W n1. H. J King, LL. D.; first Vice-President, Hon. Charles B. Law- rence, LL. D.; second \Tice-President, Rev. Clinton Locke, D. D.; tbird Vice-President Franc B. Wilkie ; Secretary, Gideon L. Bar~ ber ; I'reasurer, Israel Holmes. It was resolved that Section T of Article IV of the Constitution be an1 ended so as to read as follows: The regular annual meeting of this Association shall be held on the secon <.l Tuesday ()f J annary in each and every year. · A comn1ittee of five \Vas appointed to make arrangements for the annual dinner on the second T\uesda y of January, I 88o, consisting of Hon. Wn1. H. King, LL. D., Rev. Clinton Locke, D. D., Franc. B. Wilkie, John I. Ben- nett, and J. Bayard Backus. Oa motion the president appointed a com- mittee to draft resolutions expressive of the feelings of the Associatio11 in regard to the death of the late Hon. Sidney Breese and Stephen A. Goodwin, which comn1ittee con- sists of Hon. Charles B. L1twrence, LL. D., J~ c B .o 0 1 ( ~ t a ~ r ·( 1 1 . (

THE CONCORDIENSIS. John I. Bennett, Gideon Laning Barber, Charles L. Easto_n, Henry S. A us tin, Fra~c B. Wilkie and Herbert B. Johnson. During the past summer sotne of the boys from the Madison and the Brown chapters . of Delta ·upsilon camped on a Government island in Lake George. Later the rights of the island were permanently secured and a \ Delta Upsilon Camping Association\ formed. The officers of this Association are: Pres., Mark C. Allen, Madison, '79; Vice~Pres., W. · G. Partridge, Madison, '78 ; Secretary and Treasurer, C. E. Hughes, Brown, '8r. The island, which the boys have named \ Delta Upsilon Island,\ is near Bolton, and within a mile of the Alpha Delta Phi camp and ~everal of the most pr0n1inent sumrner resorts. Permanent buildings \vill probably be put up next sun1n1er. The Association is . open to the \V hole Fraternity. TENTH ANNIVERSAl{Y. \Ve believe that no one else thinks so. Every one who kno\VS h1m knows, too, that he has an almost endless \vay oi presenting things. We only regret that the time is so soon coming, when, on leaving college, we shall be deprived ot the privilege ot listening to hin1. ALUl\tiNI BANQUET IN CHICAG(). Wherever a num her of \()ld Union's H boys get together, they are always sure to have a good time. An old \i\·ar-horse can no more be pacified at the sound of the drum, or an inveterate dancer refrain from beating time at the sawing of a fiddle, than Union boys can help enjoying- then1sel ves when they meet. It n1atters not \vhere or under what circumstances they n1eet, that rn:1gic word, Union, imn1ediatel y dispels aU estrange- ment, and each soul involuntarily cries out, \ We are brothers! \ Son1e of these bovs in .,1 the West have just had a glorious old re-un- ion and dinner at the Grand Pacific Hotel, · in Chicago. It seems to us that \Ve can nO\V see the n1erry t\vinkle of the eye and feel the hearty shake of the hand, as these brothers once again n1eet; in order to \revive the The East Avenue Presbytenan church of. olden ti1ne.\ We imagine that for those fevv this city celebrated its tenth anniversary hours no worldly cares invaded the sacred on Sund~ay, Jan. 18. Of the fifty churches realm of their thoughts. On every such oc- belonging to th~ pr~sbytery of Albany,_ this~ casion scenes of hall and campus, cla~ses with one except1on, IS the youngest, while ot and professors, chums and classmates pass the pastors, none, with one exception, has before one's itnagination like a panorama. retained his charge so long. ]'he pastor, Rev. Every scene is as vivid as if real. After din- , Geo. Alexander ('66), delivered a short ad- ner, the singing of the college song \Laurigr:r dress, talking to his congregation, as a.friend H{Jratius\ broke up the formality of the to his friends, in that quiet, conversational ·evening. A dispatch was sent to the Presi- way. l-Ie said that he had felt, as every dent an<d Faculty of Union College, sending pastor n1 ust feel who has. lot:g preached. in greeting and ''wishing their Alma Mater 3;n- one pulpit that for sotne In h1s congregation, other century of prosperity and usefulness.\ he had done all that he could. For ten years Letters of regret were read from Dr. E. N. they had heard him preach to, and plead Potter, Judge J. S. Landon, of the N e\v York with them, and if they were not yet moved Supreme Court, Judge Platt Potter, Hon. to change their course, he could not now An1.asa J. Parker, Jr., lJr. W tn. Wells, and a move them. They had become su used to host of others, his way ot thinking and of presenting things, · Resolutions 'vere adopted relative to the that, as soon as he began his serm?n, they men1ory of ~he late Judge Sidney Breese, of could already tell how he \vas com~ng out, the class of 18, the late Stephen A. Good\vln, and could quietly go to sleep, knowing that 'z8, Frank Phelps, '54, one of the editors of he vvould come out all right. He added, the Burlington Hawkeye, and Thaddeus R. that, when he first came there, ten years ago, Austin, '63. he was a mere stripling and ~hat there vyas Resoh~ti<?ns, \ver~ brou~ht for,vard by Mr. some hope of mak1ng something out of hun. F. B. vV Ilkie, 57, In which a rnethod \vas Although Mr. Alexander undoubtedly be- suggested enabling the Alumni of the North- lieves and often feels that on account of fa- west, who cannot attend the annual com- miliarity with his mode of thinking there n1encements, to vote for trustees . . are some hearts vv hich he cannot reach, yet Singing was next in order, and the Alumni

62 THE CONCORDIENSIS. joined in \ Gaudean1us igitur;juvtJ.ncs du1n su- · comes to us vvith a request to exchange,. H<Ztts.\ The \Terrace Song\ was also sung. which we grant \Vith pleasure. It begins. Then came reminiscences of college days, and impromptu speeches by several of the with a fa1r prospect of success. Its editorials .. Alumni, which \vere well appreciated. Thus· are ably \Vritten, and the locals are interest- the jollifications \Vere kept up untiltnidnight ing. \vhen the company. dispersed, each one, no doubt, more persuaded than ever that -'fhe Harvard Advocate comes to us not \Old Union is a jolly home; burdened 'vith heavy literary matter. '\fhe We love her still where e'er we roa1n.\ topics chosen are such as interest the stu- EXCHANGES. dents and are treated in a manner at once brilliant, fresh and charn1ing. Fron1 the tone of the Advocate we would in1ply that -We send New Year's greeting to all ex-. the labor of editors of the Harvard Echo, who-~ changes. Chaos and confusion reign su- are at present unknown, could have heen em-· pre me In our sanctum ; dust covers the table; played to a better ad vantage in assisting~_ with much ransacking a few December ex- the already established papers. changes are found. Our resolution is made: We are to have our paper out in the begin- ning of the month; we are not going to fill our paper \Vith extracts frorn college maga- zines, etc.; we are to furnish, not to borrow. For this purpose we Invite correspondents to send us communications on all collegiate subjects. -We do not favor the project of an inter- collegiate press association. We fail to see in what respect our individual interests could be advanced; in what way college magazines and newspapers would be increased in influ- ence by a convention. An association that supplies no real \Vant would in some respects be a drawback to n1any papers. It would die with the euthusiasm which gave it birth. 'fhe colleges, which now have papers, just sustain then1, and we think the support of convention \vould probably have to come from t:1e Alun1ni. While we oppose the press association, yet we would like to mvet our brother editors in a friendly way and have a social chat. College papers can best make their reputation and bring honor to their institutions by representing all the va- rious elen1ents with which they are connected and by maintaining a high literary work. -The Rockford Se1ninary Mcgazine, a new monthly, published by the Pierian Union, AFTER THE GAME. I A S.enior nursing his first mustache, A Vassar maiden on the 11 mash.''· Quoth he, to ch~ff her, '' I've heard they row, Play base bail, swim and bend.the bow; But, really now, I'd like to know If they pl3y foot. ball at Vassar ? \ He smole a smile that was sharp and keen, She blushed a blush that was hardly seen. And thought lt.im just a little m:ean Thus trying to surpass her. · But ~he blushed straightway a deeper red, While the sunlight played on her golden head; With an artful look in her eye, she said, Gazing modestly on the ground,- \ 'Tis awful rough to tackle and run, Ancl one's complexion is spoiled by the sun, But once an{l a while, for the sake of the fun, .At Vassar we do touch down.\ The Senior nor left, nor fled his· place, But ''tackled\ he1· gently about the waist, She whispered \held with a winning grace, And then touched down foJ' safety. -Princeton ian. -The Sout}urtz Collegian says: 'Ve regret to see a tendency in some of our Northern exchanges to descend to politics. For instance, the Harnilton Lit. published one of the most vile and sense- less attacks on the South we have ever read. Two or three papers have nominated Grant for a third term, and express themselves 1n terms appropriate only to extteme · partizans. Such. an inclination on the part of college editors is truly lamentable, and we do hope that it will - be SUI ma W( qu ac th Sc la1 se, It on to lit SI~ se \ , VE . In . 111 cl di 01 st 'V' le rr. Cl c~ d tl p tl J f I 3 a

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 63 be crushed in its inception. Let col:Lege pqblications supply the needs .of the college world, and let outside matters alone. This is tlte only route to success. Soon after his graduation at the latter place he went to (.:Jeorgia and preached for four years in Liberty Co., and the vicinity. In 1836 he was elected to the professorship of ''Descend to politics\ is suggestive. StiH · Learned Languages and Biblical Literature we think there is much in politics which re- in Colu1nbian College, vVashington,. D. C.,and quires the higbest quqhty of brain and char-· was also appointed general agent of that college. ln I 837 Dr. Sherwood returned to acter. But we are somewhat surprised that Georgia and accepted the professorship ot the Collegian uses the phrase. inasm .. uch as the Sacred Literature and lVloral Philosophy in Southern people, if \ve are to credit the At- Merar l~niversi_t_y. lie was the first presi- . C · · ,, d. d _ . 1 . · ,, d dent of Shurtleff College, Ga. From I 846 laJt.ta onstztutzon, . escen to po 1t1cs an · to 184 D _ Sh d · · 'd t f. th . . ~ . . . . . · · 9 ·· · 1. · erwoo was presi en o e sect1onahsm more than they r1se to hterafure.: Masonic ·Ce>llege at Lexington, Mo. H~ It is well know that Mr. Paul H. Hayne, the ·lived to be nearly eighty years of age, and only distinguished poet of the South, is about \V~s a Baptist ~inister for ~ixty-eight years. to move North becn1.1se good literature is so · 3°· l~ev. J. S. Easton died July 25, I879, . . . · aged 72 years. little appreciated where he 1s. But be con- sistent, Mr. Colleg-ian, even in speech. In the sentence in \vhich you employ the terrns \vile and senseless'' you incorporate the very worst species of political partizanship 'Nhich you feign to condemn. If, in speak- ing about \the o.nl y route to success,\ you insinuate that the Ha1nilton Lit. is not a first- class publication 'vve reply 1 hat your opinion differs frotn that of n1ost folks. Talk sense, or else \crush yourself in your inception.\ -The fling at l\rliddlebury College and its students by the Un£z;e1\'sity Press (Madison, Wis.,) is as cheap as it is insolent a·nd sacri- legious. If its au thor kne\v considerable more and lived a little nearer the center of civilization he would, we venture to believe, cease this sort of writing and learn that Mid- dlebury is a classical college which, for its thorough course of training, deserves and receives the respect ot the best educated peo- ple. PERSONAL. 'II. John D. Clute died Nov. 9,1879, In the 86th year of his age. 'I7. Rev. Adiel Sherwood, D. D., died Aug. 18, 1879. We gather the following from Tlze Central Baptist : He was born at Fort Edward, Washington Co., N. Y., Oct. 3, I79I. He grad-uated at Union College and at Andover Theological Seminary. '32. Wn1. P. 1\1aulsby, a gentlen1an of high standing, resides at W est1ninster, Carroll Co., Niaryland. He \Vas at one tin1e judge of the Supren1e Court of the United States. Dur- ing the late civil war he \vas in con1n1and of a J\fary land regiment which fought on the side of the Union. He is a mern ber of the board of trusteees of The Hannah More Acaden1y, a young ladies' seminary in l\1ary- land. - ' 3 5. Hon. John Bigelo:vv, editor of Ne'Zv York E~rcning Post, writes an articie on \A Visit to the Republic of San lVIarino'' for the February nun1ber of Harper's }}fagaz£ne. '39· I~ev. Wtn. F. Lock·wood is rector of of St. Thon1as' (Episcopal) parish in Balti- nlore Co., l\laryland. He is also the princi- pal of St. Thon1as' Hotne School, a school fpr boys. His P. 0. is Owings' JYiills. It was a ren1arkable coincidence by 'vhich this gentl~n1an perforn1ed, a few years ago, the n1arriage ceremony of a Mr. Post to ·a M1ss Stzonp .. '41. Hon. Han1ilton Harris recently de- livered ~.lecture at T\veddle Hall, Albany, on \j_Johtics and Literature.\ His treat- lnent of the subject was very highly con1- mended by the press. '4r. C. Sanford Mead died July 4, I879, aged 61 years. '43. Rev. Addison B. Atkins, D. D., is at present i~ Newark, N. J ., without a charge. His last charge was in Yonkers, N. Y. '48. Rev. La,vrence Low Con1fort died during the latter part of July, I 8?9· '5 I. Rev. A. Mcintire has opened an ac.aden;y for young ladies and gentlemen at l{Iverside, Conn., under very fa·v .. orable cir-

64 THE CONCORDIENSIS. cun1stances. He has also been called to '69. Rev. Ed-vvard Mcl(ee is the pastor of preach in a neighboring chapel the U. · P. church of U nitv, llarshasville,.. Ohio. · '54. Frank Phelps, one of the editors of Tlze Burlz.\ngto1-z (Iowa) Ha'lvkeJie, died (says an • '6g. Wn1. P. McLaury, president of his exchange of the HazokeJ 1 e, Dec. 3· I 879, aged. class, is practicing n1edicine in Catskill, N: 45 years. He \vas a son ot S. S. Phelps, Y. forn1erly S·enator tron1 Vennont. . He \vas· a bright writer, and had, at various titnes, '6g. A. D. Potts is engaged in farming and been on the staff of ·Cincinnati and Chicago n1ining in Al be111arle, N-. C. A letter lately papers. 1--::1 e \Vas a man of learning, spoke \Vritten to a· friend here contained the ±ol. ·several languages fluently, and was son 1 e- lo\ving: '•I have never n1et a tnen1-ber of the what of a poet, \vriting poetry with spright- class except Loornis and vVashington since liness and tolerable ability. He \Vas a large- leaving College. ~A rolling stone gathers hearted, ·bo-enerous n1an, had a host of friends no moss.' This is the resull of ten years . ,, and \vas universally estee1ned. He also experience. stood high in the 1\Jasonic ~rder, having at- '6g. Char~es R. Pratt is a lawyer in Elmi- tained to the thirty -second degree. He will ra, ~. Y. He married some ti n1 e during last be missed by a large circle of friends, while .A.prll. his loss to the Ha'lvkeye and journalism at large \vill be seriously felt. '75· lVIr. Ballart has re.turned from Ger- many and will probab:y resume his position '55· Col. C. K. Peck, President of the, here as tutor)n mathematics. North western Transportation Co., died in · Chicago, on Wednesday, Dec. 3, 1879, at the '75· It gives us pl~asure to be able to say Grand Pacific Hotel. He had arrived there that Edward E. Wh1tehorne, M.D., has con-· from St. Louis the previous Thursday. He eluded to settle in Schenectady. He has es- was forty-eight years old, and had been a tablished himself in a cdsy little office on resident of l(eokuk, Iowa, twenty-five years, Union street, just below the bridge. and his business extended from St. Paul to New ()rleans, and fron1 St. Louis to the head '79· White, H eatly, Hoyt, Beattie and_ of the Missouri, and he was well-known VanPatten were in the city during holiday vacation. throughout the Northwest. His wife and daughter were with him in his last hours. The Keokuk, Gate City says: \Col. Peck \vas a graduate of Union College, at Schenectady, N. Y., the valedictorian of his class, and a gentle1nan of fine literary attainrnents and cultivated tastes and habits. He was of a genial, companionable nature, and his ad- mirable social qualities rendered him ex- tremely popular \Vith all \Vith whon1 he came in contcrct. He was also a prominent Mason, and was w1Jely known in M!lsonic circles.\ '68. L. Cornell Strong d1ed at Tarryto\vn, N. Y., Dec. 17, 1879. '68. Chas. Warner Howe died in Chicago, July IO, 1879. '6g. John McFadden is a lumber dealer at Santa Anna, Los Angelos Co., California. '69. Edwin A. Kingsley marri~d a gradu- ate of Vassar College and resides i-n Syra- cuse, N. Y., where he is practicing la\;v, I-Ie organized the Union College Alurnni Asso- ciation of central New York. '6g. Ezra B. Fancher is the principal of the High School in Seneca Falls, N. Y. \ M:ANUF ACTURERS OF TROY., N .. Y., Dealers in Drawing Instrun1ents of every description, Sheet and Boll Drawing Paper, Continuous Profile Paper, Tracing Cloth and Paper, Field Books, and every kind. of Engineers' Stationery for the Field or Office, Engineers' and Surveyors' Transits, Leveling Instru- ments, Leveling Rods, Surveyors' Com- passes, Chains, Metallic and Steel Tape Measures, Pocket Compasses, Miners' Com- passel!!, etc., etc. .( I ( J 2 ]

s t THE CONCORDIENSIS. II[ SHIRTS JfAJJE TO ORDER AND READY-MADE. GEORGE E. VINCENT, WOOD ·GENTs' F\uRNISHING G jc·D~--i ALARGELINEOFUNDERWEAR. .I AU the Latest Style Scarfs, Ties, Collars, &c. ~First dass \Vork done at our Custom f;~tundry .~ And Manufacturer qf the ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, Myers' 'Block, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I 33 State Street, Sclzenectady. ------------- REESE g H;f/_RTLEY~ I . . s. H. VEDDER, . Dealersin Coal and \\\ 7\ Toad Family Groceries and Pr<Olvisions · . .• · · · V Y .· ·. · ·, · · '~ Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Teas, Coffees, Spices, Flour, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, CaLmed Goods,. and Vegetables. Also, Crockery, 'Tobacc.o, Etc., Etc. Cor. Union and Romeyn Sts., Schenectady. JOHN SCHlJMACHER, Boots & Shoes. Particular attention paid to all kinds of work. REFINED CIDER AND PURE CIDER VINEGAR, P. 0. Box 459· No. 61 PARK PLACE, Scb:enectady. ''A Little the Cheapest Store in the City! \ OSTROM BROS., 269 State St., Schenectady, Dealers in CHOICE GROCERIES. Special p1·ices to Clubs, etc, 267 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N. ¥. THOS. H. REEVES & co., I KING, (( THE )) TAILOR. DEALERs m 1 102 State St., Schenectady. FarJCY and Staple Drv Goocls, I All t~l8 Latest Styles of Cass~meres, Beavers and Strit- .. CARPETINGS, OIL CLOTHS, ~c., I Ings alMy~ OJ?.lu~:~ldL ~SGarmeuts Cut and Ai~o, a large l:ne of Cloths and Cassimeres. a 8 lll t e atest tyles at tne Cheapest Rates. 137 State Street, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. --------------------------------------- A. BROWN & SON, Upholsterers & Fur11iture klAN UFA CTURERS, r 54 State St., - Schenectady, N. Y. BuRGESS & BusKERK, PH({) TOGB.ALPHEBS~ 105 and 107 State St., Schenectady. ANDREW McMULLEN, Wholesale and Retail Dealer • 1n Coal. 92 and 94 Union St., Schenectady. WILSON :L>AVIS, jVlEf\...CHANT TAILOR. 115 State St., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. --·-·-·- -·- -~---·--·----~ Y, MaC. A. COFF'EE ROOM, (Corner State and Ferry Sts.) BILL OF FARE: Oysters, Raw, 12 Cents. Milk Toast, - Io Cents \ Stewed, 15 ~~ Bread and Milk. 5 1 \ ., Fried, - 25 ~~ Bread and Butter, - 3 ~~ Beefsteak, or Ham and Sandwiches, (each) - 3 1 \' \ ! Eggs, with Potatoes, Crullers, - Two for 3 \ Bread and Butter, and Eggs, boiled, poached, Coffee, - 25 H fried, scrambled,( each) 3 1 ~ Baked Beans, per plate, 6 H Coffee or Tea, - 3 \ Pot of Boston Baked Pie, - s '' BP,ans-to order, so 11 Milk, per glass, 3 \ Milk Sangaree, - 5 11 ~Free Reading Room and Library adjoining. WALTER F. HURCOMB & CO., Merchant Tailors , • . AND I M PC) R T E R S, 15 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N.Y . HATS and CAPS. ,_ill the Latest an.d most Fashion/- a.ble Styles at LEVIT. CLUTE'.S ror State St., Schenectady. ~Agent for Dunlap and Knox Ha.ts.

IV T'HE CO~COR:UIENSIS. ---- -- - ·-- ----- - --- -------------------------- SCH.ENECrfADY LOCO\NI()TI.Vl~ VVOI~I{S. Continues to recei \re orders, and to furnish, with pron1ptness, THE BEST AND LATEST I_,MPROVED GOAL OR WOOD BURNI~G LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES, ~\~D CJTHER RAILROAD MACHINERY, TIREs, &c. And also to repair> and rebuild locorYlotives. The above vvorks are located on the N. Y. C. R. R., near the center of the State, an<i possess superior facilities for f'orvvarding -w-ork to any part of the country, CHAs. G. hLLis. \V ALTER lVlcQuEEN, President. Vice-President, ED\VARD ELLIS, JoHN SvVIFT, Treasurer. Superintendent .. .,~. PH GILlOTT' STEEL PENS. THE FAVORITE NlJMBERS, 303,404, 332,351,170, AND IllS OTHER STYlES SOLD BY ALL DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. ~~~ GIVEN'S HOTEL . ' ., (Opposite to the N. Y. C. and H. R. R. R. Depot.)~ The Best Hotel m the City. Call and be Convinced. F. 1\1ITCHELL, Proprietor. JAS. W. DARRO\tV, Tobacco and Cigarettes. DEALER IN Coal, Wood, Hay and Straw. No. I ro Centre Street. A.L WAYS UNIFORM AND RELIABLE, \ ---------- ------ . ----------- I 88 o. Spring&, Summer, 1 88o. 6 First Prize Medals-Vienna, 187 3 , Philadelphia, x876, Paris, xs 7 s. Look here for all the Nobby Styles of Adopted by the French Governn1ent. HATS and CAPS at rock bottom pl'ices. j3 EYER, THE fE A TTER, NOW ON,.SALE IN PARIS. Rochester, N.Y. 149 State Street. vVM. S. KIMBALL & CO., Peerless Tobacco Works, PRINTED AT THE AMSTERDAM DAILY DEMOCRAT STEAM PRINTING HOUSE. .. I

