.. . j J' t. of at· re 1'' HE CONCORDIENSIS. VoL. IV. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., JANUARY, I88 L No.4· CoNCC)RDIENSis. PUBL1SHED ON THE .15th OF EACH MONTH DURING THE COLLEGIATE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. EDITORS~· ROBERT A. WOOD, 'S:x, EDITOR IN CHIEF. J, J. HENNING, 'Sx. H. SCHLOSSER, 'St. C. 'TEMPLE, '82. A. S. WRIGHT, '82. E. E. FORD\ '82 W. M. GILBERT, '83. W. 0. LEWIS, '83. LITERARY. . ------ ~ ---- THE LAST SCENE. Happy and joyous was old mother year As her children she fondly caressed, For six noble boys and as many fair ghls, In their turn to her bosom she pressed. 'rhe first was of all the most promising lad, As all who beheld him will say, They named him, of course, but his name is so long I will tell you, for short, it was J-. The next was a noisy and troublesome boy, And a little bit cross, by the way, He never grew up quite as tall as the rest, The g:irls-he was shorte1· than tlH:~y. Y dung March was the third and a noisy lad he, When he whistled, and bustled, ancl blew, But April, his siste1·, subdued him at last As only a si')ter can do. Sweet May, ~nd the lovely bright June were next, .And how they made mother rejoice; Three other girls followed wi~h wann, loving hPn.rtR, So alike th t\re was HCH.reely a l~hoice. Octob(-'r, N ovem l>eT uud ha.hy Decetnlw~r, W(:\re ehubhy ruul rosy n.1H.l fat, And garlands of fruit.lt~~e encird.~tl their head.B, As, nestled hy rnotlwr, tht~y sat. But sorrow is jealous of ha.ppine8B herP, A.nd watehiug this old 'mot.'!.wr now, \ His poisonous missiles he hurled at her heart, Till sadness encircled her brow. For hoy afte1· boy with his capers and glee, Was ta.k.en.away fron1 her side;- N o slamming of doors and upsetting of chairs, And }H.Issy no longer need hide. And girl after girl, as the time sped a way, W Ol:l1tl cease fron1 her music aud song, Till roses and violets faded and died, And -the fragrance of Summer was gone. The baby ancl mother were all that were left, And h?w they would cling to each other, For time only knew when the next must depart, And whetl1er the babe or the mother. rrhe baby asleep on the fond mother's breast, E'e11 Time was unable to sever, And mantled in midnight 'twas solemnly sweet To s€e them departing togethel'. MATHETES, '81. AMERICAN AC1'IVITY. When our forefathers first set theiF feet on American soil, they accepted a life iu \V hich naught but the utmost activity could preserve them from want or at tnost gain them a com .. tortable existence in the liberty which they so greatly desired. Ignorant of the clin1ate and of the productions of the soi 1, exposed to every danger, prosperity could alone be insured by the rnost busy and watchful hie. Circu tnstances favorable to themselves they h:!td not ;--they were obliged to make them .. • Thus activity, not only physical but mental,. was born and nurtured and at present is the characteristic of our nation. 'fhe old s \'stern of tnanufactories the Atner- ican spirit ·would not brook, but brought forth invention after invention and produced sciences of its own. Nothing has resisted

48 THE CO·NCORDIENSIS. this ever swelling current of restlessness.·. In the majority of our coU~ges the tend. Changes, ad vancernents and re.forms in soci- ency is to cover much ground to the neglect ety and government have followed one an. of accurately Iearnmg the wbole. · The stu- other in quick succession. dent is hurried from one study to another In our system of society and government and when he is through, he has only a general .a man must constantly use his oars or he will idea. He is like one who sails down the be borne down the stream. Amid the many Rhine, catching only glimpses of th~ towered breakers, storms and reverses, his alertness ·castles overhung wrth the iYies, sprinkled must never sleep. with the dews of ages, not stopping to enter . . . . . and explore their darkened c'l:1am bers. At . But what are the evil~ resulting Jrom this h d f .h. .. h h ·· ·b' . · d 1 f a · ;>· ] . S 1 . . . -rh. · t e en. o : ts joun1ey e as.ut '·Ismrn on y :stateo aua1rs. an1es ter Ing says: ''- · · e . d' . . f i · h' ·h . . . In IStinct Images o· sorne score<O· ruins w 1c deepest cause of Am er1can dIs ease Is that h h d · t·h . t · t 11 . · d · f .. . . . . . · e as passe · Wt ou an m e ::rgeut t ea o ovenvork1ugofthe bram and over-exc1temeut . one. of the nervous system which are the neces- The student may say-'' But I llave finished sary consequences of their intense activity.\ the course quickly!\ Yes, he has; and that is In proportion to th~ population, there are i\ m erican actIvity .. more suicides in the United States than in Aristotle said : \The end of la.bor is to gain any other country. In a \-Vord, the Amen can leisure.\ But the American ra ~c.t y takes into \\\ .. orks himself to death. His very watchful-. ness is stamped upon a face which bears the • consideration the end. His active labors never cease. He hurries over tile high way impress of sharpness, ·while the visage of the . of life and fortune. T'he goal is w·ealth,- Englishrnan and the Gennan wears a dull and sluggish expression. greater wealth·-still greater weaJth. With the words, \I must l(l bor for a little \vhile The American experiences losses, but in. longer,\ he unconsciously rushes through the stead Qf giving up in despair, he redoubles portals of death and leisure is found in the his ~~orts and soon has regained his former/ grave. D. n. position. --.~-------------- In him are combined the deliberation of THE GENIUS OF HAWTHORNE. the German, the coolness of the Enghshman, In an age in which romance. writing has the restlessness of the Frenchman, the viva-. called forth some of the highest powers of city ot the Italian and the perseverance of the the human miud, especially in one which ha-s old Hollander. witnessed the productions emanating from, In the province of literature there are much the genius of Thackeray, Dickensa11d George ·activity and spirit, bu.t its monuments are Eliot, it is hardly an exaggeration to say, \' not so lasting as those erected by the minds that in intellect and imagination, Hawthorne of other nations by patient, continuous efi()rt stands second [() none of his brilliant contem- and a determination. to leave something per- poranes. manent for the cOntemplation of future gen- He is more romancer than novelist; his erations. We will wait many years for the stories are rather studies of character under Epic of America. We are ever wishing f(Jr peculiar conditions than a description of life something new, flashing and novel. The aud manners. Our sympathtes do not go newspapers gratify our desires. In litera- out with such intense interest to his charac- ture our acti I' it r yields us abundai1ce, but ters, as to those of some ol the other great not we a It h. masters of fi ctil~ll. Real and true to life as

.. ed of . n 0 y THE CONCORDIENSIS. 49 ~-.~~------------~----------~----------~------~--------~--------------~ bis men and worrien are, there is that about; A FAIRY TALE. them which ~epels us fro~ being brou~h.t into· Feeling bound to defend this antique ham- closer acqua1n~ance. It IS more by his In her-· let, we append a few notes on fairs in general ent ~O\ver of Intellect;. than by any other ·to show that Dorp received the custom of ~uahty th~t he forces h1n1self u~on ?ur a.tten-. holding so n 1 an_y church fairs, a charge often t 1 on; but when once our attention 1s ga1ned, ·laid at her door; from highly respected we become completely enthralled and are: sources. borne along to the very end by the calm, yet. Fairs are a relic of Greece and Rome . irresistible current of his genius. Then they were held in connection w·ith po- His favorite theme is New England in the litical ga~herings. From this the modern Puritan days, though it is apparent that the; custom of voting at ten cents a head for your Puritanical ideal of life is repugnant to him.; : favorite candidate at fairs held immediately it is no less obvious that their ideas of justice prior to F-lection is supposed to have· arisen. made a deep and lasting impression upon his About the tenth century fairs were associated intellectual character. with religious festivals and were sometimes Keenly discernible in his earlier \Vritlngs held in churches and church yards. Prev- and even in some of his later ones, there IS a· ious to this fairs had been established in spirit ot misanthropy, a skeptical distrust of French and Italian cities. St. Bartholom e\v's human nature, resulting tram his most search- . fair w·as established in London in r 133, last- Ing glances into the conduct and motives of ing three days annually. This continued to men. He has humor, and often the most de- be held until 1858, \vhen it had becon1e but a licious kind of hun1or, but it is always sub- m~rry-making. lVIany fairs are now held servient to the sombre parts of the story and throughout England for the sale of farn1 pro- neve.r allowed to have full and unlimited ex- duce, etc._ One of these, at Greenwich, was pansion. \ suppressed in 1857 as a nuisance. The most _ Hawthorne, nevertheless, has the spirit of fan1ous of all fairs ever held in the realms of faith deeply itnplanted in his nature; his be- the United Kingdom was the Donnybrook. lief searches for what is n1ost beautiful, and Soul-harro\ving tales of noisy mirth and pug- this he finds only in moral truth. I n~city are \Veaved with the name. ~ut this Nothing is more characteristic ofh1s genius fa1r, too, fared the fate ~£ all bad fairs and than his failure to bring his plots to what ceased to be fair any more. The most cele- most readers consider their natural and legit- bra ted fair of the present is that of Nizhni- imate.end. It is. the province of the romancer Novogorod, l{ussia, held in midsummer. to rouse the exciten1ent and curiosity of his China displays her civilization by a multitude reader, with the determination, however, of fairs. Mexico former I y held fairs for the finally to solve the mystery ; but many of the sale of slaves. The United States is not ron1ances of Hawthorne \begin in mystery blessed w·ith n1any fairs, properly so-called. only to end in mist.\ This trait is noticeable True, agricultural exhibitions, etc., common- especially in the \Marble Faun,\ His \Mosses ly receive that appellation, but not rightfully. from an old Manse\ are almost perfect ot Our fairs are reserved for churches, hospitals their kind, each one being a unit in itself. and n1ilitary organizations. These insti tu- Ha wthorne as a master of English style is tions preserve the fair in its primitive purity, without a rival among the novelists of this -an assemblage for the sale of goods, gener- century. He not only writes English, but ally contributed gratuitously, for the build- the sweetest, clearest English that has ever ing or furnishing of a church, or the protno- been used to express such originality of ideas, tion of some charitable enterprise. The latter depth of thought, and variety 'of emotion. part of the definition applies more particu- larly to military organizations. It \vill be H. C. \\'.

I . 'I :· .. 50 THE C\ONCORDIENSlS. seen that the original plan of a fair did not·. We wish aU our correspondents.to distinct-. include twenty-five cent chances in a wax. ly understand that no attention whatever zvtll doll,. etc. This is a latter day innovation. ·be bestowed o;z ctnn11zunications not acco1njJanied· w. · by the write7' s t1a1ne. All comrn u nications not MUSIC. Touched be my harp with minstrel fire, 'Tuned be my soul to mighty song ! While I tell of a language higher, Divinely higher than mortal tongue. Music ! thou art 1ny muse most dear; Thou canst arouse the wildest passion, Thy wondrous spirit dwells ever near, Thou too canst melt to deep contrition. Sweet inspiration of man's best nature Ennobling the deeds of great and small, · Oft hast thou blessed the human creature In lowly cottage, in palace hall. Say, spirit from heaven ! art thou mine? Wilt thou forever near me stay, Wilt let me worship at thy shrine, Fierce, restless longing there allay? Ah ! thou wast born of generous art ! E'en now I feel thy mystic power. Linked unto thine shall be a heart Whose bm·ning· spirit ne'er shall cower. Burst o'er us, then, life's stormy wave, Surge after surge around us rave ! If but this goddess our spirit lave, Our manhood purify and purifying save. ''SCOTT.\ COJ:\.RESPONDENCE, so accon1panied will be but food for the waste· basket.--En.J Union College, Jan. 3. _I 88r. EDITORS OF CONCORDIENSIS:-ln your De- cember issue, '''82\ complains of the partial manner of treating Engineers. lt is probable that this complaint and sin1ilar ones arise from ·a n1isapprehension of the proper function of the separate courses-the classical and the engineering. The one has for its end the general development of a student's n1ental capacity and the makin_g of a mind that shall ·be able to do good vvork in aln1ost any field of intellectual effort. The other has for its end the special development of tact and talent for a single field of activity, that of engineer- ing. Hence in the one case the exaction of an amount of previous training sufficient to give earnest of that degree of attainment during the short college course which shall do injustice neither to the student's native- capacity nor to the effort of the college. The fi.eld is a wide one and more preparation is necessary. But in the other case no previous training is exacted other than that acq u1red in the higher departments of the public school; the field is narrower and the college by its attitude in the matter avows itself confident of so concentra6ng the mind of its subject [When we returned from our vacation we upon the special work that without tedious found our P. 0. box filled \vith replies to \82\ prior training that mind. shall come to the to the number of 329, be the sarne more or end of its four years course with the result of less,--the authors evidently being ashamed a good engineering education fairly attaine-d. of their productions, as no names accornpan- In the classical course a complex purpose is. ied the comrnunications. The follow·ing plainly visible. The n1odern languages are written on the same subject was among the not taught for the reason that in a course in. first to arrive and the author hin1self appeared which from its general nature mathematics to claim it as his handiwork, and acc')rdingly are necessarily much limited ther~e \vould we print it. Several other correspondents not be sufficient n1ental discipline of the have since announced themselves but we sterner kind unless in some other part of the have preterred this one (and \Ve only have course som~thing were studied which con- space for one) on account of its earlier arrival. tained a highly disciplining elen1ent, and by and also because it expresses its side of the substituting the ancient for the modern Ian. case more clearly. guages a double purpose is served-at once n a s e a a a '[ L I1 f t t ( t c ( ( ' ( ( ( 1

t-. ll d· e I 'THE CONCORDIENSI:s.· 51 rnental discipline oi a high order and schol- ff. King, LL. D., President, and Messrs. arly information. But on the contrary a John I. Bennett, Frank B. Wilkie, Thomas simple purpose winds through the whole C. Whiteside, Herbert B. Johnson and J ~ engineering course. i\n Engineer should be Bayard Backus. a n1athematician, not a linguist, so while only a slight knowledge of language is required \VE WOULD URGE upon aU students and and that for purely practical purposes, the especially upon the new class, the iruportance Engineer is incessantly exercised in tnathe- of giving their hearty support to the CoN- matics during the entire course. CORDIENSIS. Let each one feel that he has a If vve take this view of the tlJatter the com- personal interest in :the paper. An1ong our plaint of \82\ can hardly be justified. By forty exchanges there is not one as large and thoughtful and judicious scholars ea-eh course containing an equal amount ot reading tnat- has been planned and is now foHo\ved with a ter, that IS sold at so low a price, The edi- definite object in view. Therefore any inter- tors are disposing of papers at exactly the polation which \iVOuld jeopardize that object same price as the papers cost. It 1na y seem cannot be permitted. surprising that the paper can he made. to pay The object of the one course is simple, that expenses it that be the case. It could not of the other complex, and it is not at all di.ffi- ·were it not for our advertisements. \Vere it cult to unrlerstand how, 'With little effort and not ior thern, the paper could not be sold f.or with injustice to nobody, certain ends in the less than twenty cents, the p,rice of many one may be compassed which in the other other college papers. We do no.t aitn to n1ake cannot be- reached without a great deal of this a money-tnaking affair. We do aim to disturbance and danger. furnish students and alumni, at the lowest HARMONICUS. rates possible, a college paper that will com- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pare favora~ly ~ith those of other colleges. · E D I T 0 R I A L. This being our aim, we trust that students will see that all the copies of each issue are THE EXACT date ~f the opening· of the win- sold. We had no fault to find until the last ter term seemed to be unknown. The official issue, of vvhich about seventy-five copies are college circulars, (term bills,) and the CoN- now on hand- We have often heard it re- CORDIENSIS announced it as Tuesday ,January gretted by upper-class n1en th~t they n<td not 4th. Tlie chapel announcement and bulletin saved one number of each Issue, to have board indicated Wednesday, January 5th, as bound at the end of their course. It is a plan the fatal date. For once the CoNCORDIENSIS vve would strongly recon1mend to Freshmen. was mistaken and the official circulars vtrong. In conclusion, we 'vould say to each student Wednesday proved to be the day for co 1 n. -buy four numbers of each .issue-one for mencing another long siege of study. yourself, and one each for your aunt, your cousin and your sister. WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt of an invi- tationtoattendtheannual.dinneroftheUnion Judge Levi Parsons, of Fort Plain, Mont- College Alutnni Association of the North west, gomery county, in this State, has done a very held at the Grand Pacific 1-lotel In Chicago, generou.s and handsorr1e thing in handing on Tuesday evening, January I Ith, 188 I, at 7 to President Potter $So,oop, the interest of o'clock. The invitation also states: \Our w·hic.h is to be used tn the creation and 1 nain- venerable professor, John Foster, LL. D., tenance of thirteen scholarships in connection has protnised to be present on that occasion with the college, l'hese scholarships are to to meet his 'old boys once rnore'\ The con1- be known a11d designated as the Levi Par. tnittee ot arrangetnents' consists of Williatn sons Scholarships of Union College. There ...

' i: I J l , ,, THE CONCORDIENSIS. are to be two of $300 each, thee of $zoo· Freshman of the monotony which would each, and eight of $rso each. The residue is otherwise have characterized it, and it is very to be devoted to the assistance of worthy stu- pleasing to find that we are to take two dents at Union \vho rnay need and deserve aid ·studies with him this term. in the prosecution ot their studies. The in- come ot this fund will amount to $3,ooo a year. ONE BY ONE the antiquated,old time usages The beneficiaries are to be selected hy the col- ot Union are passing away, and it is with the lege, and admitted to the benefits of !he fund greatest pleasure that we record the passage under certain restrictions named in the docu. ·into the abyss of oblivion of the fine for ab- ment. ,This fund is to be controlled jointly sence from recitation. For the benefit of hy Union College, the Parsons Library, and readers nut acquainted with all the tuinutire .a board ot curators of \¥hon1 the rector of St. of college life we would say that it has been John's church, Johnstown, is one, and in the custom for we don't know how kmg past whom IS vested the supervision. _Union 1s to to regulate absences as follows: When a man be congratulated on this noble gift, which, \Vas absent from recitation, a zero stood we believe, is the second $5o,ooo received by against him, and if he w1shed it removed he the institution from thi~ liberal donor, \Vho had to get ct registrar's certificate to allow him devotes his fortune to such excellent uses to recite that lesson. For said certificate 25 cents had to be deposited \Vith the Treasurer. Without considering \vhether or not this had the effect of making n1en tnore regular at recitations, \VC are glad to see the rule abol- ished, for \Ve believe that by the ti,me tnen con1e to college they ought to be considered capable of acting on their own responsibility \vi thou t corn pulsion of any sort. \V e hope to be able to chronicle more changes of the same kind before we finish our editorial du- ties, but if this does not fall to our lot may the CoNCORDIENSIS never cease from its efforts in this direction until Union is govern- ed in accordance \Vith the advanced ideas of the time. 1 TIS NOT often that one has a chance to 'get round' Prof. Alexander, butatthe exanl- ination in Logic last terrn the \VOrth y Pro- fessor seerns to have relaxed his usual vigilance somewhat, and immediately fell a victim to the wiles of the Juniors. Ti happen- ed this way. The class \vent in in two divis- ions. The exarnination was partlJ oral and partly written, but the question papers \Vere not allowed to be taken out of the roon1. A few of the knowing ones of the second divis- ion, hovvever, collected in one of the sections, and as the first div,ision can1e out, managed to infortn themselves pretty accurately con- cerning the ten questions on the paper. Forewarned, forearmed! Ten-spots in abun- dance accordingly. ---· FoR THE FIRST time in a myriad or more of years Conic Sections fails to appear on the boards and \Pinky'' is left alone with- THE JUNIORS are to be congratulated on out a class to instruct. 'Tis as H should be, the change which gives them Pro!. Webster for the subject of Conics has always been a in Latin for this their last term in that study. mere boy 's pia y. The only object that ci- W e had the pleasure of meeting this Professor pher mathematics can have in a classical in Physiology during our first term in college, course is the affordmg of discipline, a.nd as- and learr1ed to loye and respect him as one st 1 redlv 1 'n th's t ... ~ , 1 respec no one can compare always ready to assist in every possible way, Conics and Calculus. ahvays interested in us,-interested not only ___________ _ In our mental progress but in our rnoral \vel-' \Vall _ 'S h h b . · 0 f h · · . . - e l , I , w o as ee n out a year has fare. ne o t e kindest and most genral returned to college. He has dropped' the men in the faculty, he relieved our first terrn r and added a 2 .. - b S1 c . tJ . 11 t \ t ]

\ . he of r. . iS l- n d e e y s f THE CONCORDIENSIS .. 63 -The Adelphic-Philomathean debate will take place February I 8th; in the chapel. The ~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~ .. Philo~athean speakers are~. P. ~illia~s, 81, E. B. Waller, 'Sz, and E. C. Murray, '82. LO'CAL. -Is vour arm sore yet? - \ -Patronize those who patronize us. --How do you like our new dress? -Maj. MacMurray is cultivating a full ·-It is a pity to see a Senior stoop to little school-boy tricks, so that he may leave the room during recitation. Imitation nose- bleeds are not quite the thing for a college beard. ·man. ----When will the Seniors have their class supper? -Forty seniors succeeded in running up a · score of over two hundred absences in Met- -. Tracey Walworth, '83, has returned to aphysics. Only five or six had a clean college. record. The t\venty-five cent gan1c law -Was your horse \vell shod last exatnina- proved a great convenience for Senior quar- tion day ? ters. --Won't son1e member of '84 lend us a helping hand by noting down so1ne of the Freshrnen's sn1art saying-s? Surely such a bright class, cheeky enough to scare the Sophs out of a \rush ought to be brin1full -Freshman query-\ Did you get stuck in .Algebra?\ -The gymnasiu1n \vill not be open even- ings this term. _;\No more equestrian exercises on the back seats, gentlemen.\ -· Where are the new bath roon1s vvhich we w·ere to have by Chri\stmas? -Two new men have entered the class of '84-Parmenter of Troy and Pratt of Albany. ot good things. --On Tuesday evening, January 4th, Pres- ident Potter entertained the students who spent their holiday vacation in town. After supper they spent a pleasant hour in singing college songs and left well pleased with their entertainment. -It will cost you only ten cents additional to purchase one more copy of the CoNCOR- DIENSIS. Fact. -Prof. Price is very much overworked this -Can any one explain the rigid geometric term, hav~ng two d.ivisions in Calc? Ius and fixity of things in its application to the French one ~ach m Mechamcs an~ Analyt1cal Me- Language and Literature? ~hamcs. The b.oys can w1sh for no better w h t h d f . F h \t , \Instruc.tor, yet 1t seen1s too bad to put so . - e ave no . ear o _a res man en much \vork on one man. In Algebra. Having scared '83 out of the rush, '84 rests on its laurels. -A 3ophomore picked up a flexible rubber ruler, and after examining it intently, ex- clain1ed, \Is this a razor strop?\ -We hear marvellous accounts of the cold in the rural districts during the holi- days. The biggest 1- yarn says 30 degrees below zero. -A Sophomore informed the Professor of Rhetoric that the r\ryan languages extend from the Ganges on the 'west to the British Isle·s on the east. -The joint debate between the Philoma- thean and Adelphic Societies is really going to take place in February. We shall give tull.particulars in our next. ,. -Contrary to expectation, Prof. Webster relieves Prof. Dean in the Junior Latin (whereat '82 is happy), and Prof. Perkins takes the Seniors in Political Econon1y. -A member of '81'splug hat brigade when crossing the R. R. the other evening, stubbed his toe against one of the rails. 'fhe flag- man at once shouted, ''Hey, there 1 Don't kick that rail off.\ And he boasts ot the smallest foot in ~1is class, too ! -The officers of the ... t\.delphic tor the pres- ent term are: President, vVilliam B. Reed; Vice President, L. R. Hargrave; Secretary, i\. K. Gilchrist; 'Treasurer, \V. A. Waddell; Advocate, Arthur S. Wright; Engrossing Clerk,J ohn J. Drowne; Curator, W. 1-I. Phyfe. -Prof. Foster recently exhibited some photographs ot eminent physicists to his class in ( )ptics. An1ong t.he pictures was found one of an Indian \\roman grinding corn. He ren1arked, \The Scriptures teach us that two women shall be grinding at the tnill, and but one shall be taken. This is the one that was. left.\ Is it one of the standing jokes, or \Vas. it itupro·\ ised tor the benefit of '81 ?

.. ' ' 54 THE 'CONCORDIENSIS. -It is expected that our base ball direc- tors will speedily announce an entertainn1ent for the support of base ball interests, and they promise if proper interest is n1anifested to arrange for a grand ball. By the way, the last year's pennant has not shoWed up yet. -One ot the ne'v Freshmen recently in- quired at the college book store for Law- rence's cdztzon of Bourdon's Algebra. By the way, we might add that all college text books ·can he procured at the lo,vest possible rates .at the College Book Store, North Section, South College. ·- cal Economy (3), at 3; French, History and Roads and Bridges to be arranged. The Juniors have Physiology (3), Chemistry {3), Analytical Mechanics and Heat (4),Latin (4), Greek (4), (J-erman (4). Sophomores: Latin (4), Greek (4),French and German (5), Calcu- lus (4), Descriptive Geometry {3), English (3). Freshmen : Latin (4), Greek (5}, French (5), Latin Sci., (3),Aig-ebra (S),l:{hetoric (r),Draw. ing (2). Military Drill o\r physical culture three times a \veek for all. --Freshman scene. J. enters F.'s room and sees his stove door open, the ash pan on the floor, and the contents of the stove dumped. 1. looks into stove and asks: ''Is your fire out? Are you building it up?\ F. drawls out, ''No, you d-n fool! Don't you see I'rn only sharpening a grass scythe!'' -One of our enterprising Juniors can1e to his roo1n drunk the other e\~ening and actu- ally read his Latin wit/zout the use oj a pony/ When he \vas sober enough to find out what he had done he \vas so disgusted \vith him- self that he swore he'd \nt>ver get drunk any more.\ His case bears a some,vhat close analogy to that of the \1 ern1ont farmer who harnessed up his CO\V. ... -Our special correspondent at a ladies' school reports the follo\ving: Preceptress- THE THEOLCJGICAL S()CIETY . This society under the Presidency of Mr. William R. Winans, '8 r, is in a very flourish- ing condition. The college prayer meetings, under the charge of the above society, are well attended and deep interest is taken. For some time, however, there has been felt the need of a room more suitable for holding the prayer meetings. Room No. 4 has for .. rnerl y been used, but as the men are accus- tomed to recite there and as they are apt \vhile worshiping tp see their college work on the black-boards, their thoughts are nat-. urally distracted and called away from relig- ious subjects. The college chapel has often been thought of, but was too large for the purpose. 1'he deficiency has no\v been sup- plied by tearing out the partition between rooms 6 and 8, papering and painting them, furnishjpg thetn with new chairs and thus n1aking a suitable and a very pleasant room. \Miss , do you not know that correspon- dence bet\veen ladies and gentlemen is strict- ly forbidden and that you openly violated that rLde \vhen vou received a note from the gentleman across the aisle last evening?\ Miss--: \)~ es; but before going you ai- rectly informed us to take notes at the lec- ture.\ -Geological specimens.-K. in all gravity asserts that \the lower lin1it of glaciers was generally 38 degrees north latitude, but soJne- times they eztetzd as far as 41 degrees.\ Another Senior on beholding a fine fossil, exclaimed : ''Ah! this is a daiSy.\ He was evidently well up on the }lora of that period. The Prof. asks \i\1., who is looking at a fossil: ''What have you there, Mr. W.?'' W. replies: \Only a little one I picked up.,. \I hope you're not THE GARNE'f. The Garnet will this year be issued under the auspices of the Sigma Phi, Delta Phi, Psi Upsilon and Alpha Delta Phi Societies, the editors being from both the Senior and · Junior classes. The Kappa Alpha Society is to have no representation, having \Vithdra wn its support of the publication. The staff is composed of the following nan1ed gentlemen: ,. H. G. Glenn, Managing Editor; J. G. Peoli, Ass't Managing Editor; W. F. Wat- kins, Jr., Treasurer; E C. Murrav, Secre:.. tary ; E. 1~. E. Lansing, F. W. Canieron, W. doing much of that business now, \\!\. re- marks the Prof. -l~he arrangement of studies for the Sen- iors this term is as follows: Astronomy (4). at 8 A. M.; Christian Evidences (5), and Ana- lytical Mechanics (3), at 1 o ; ::.hakespeare, Critical l{eading, etc., (3), at 2 P. M.; Pol1ti- J. Pollard and S. M. Griswold. 'fhe Garnet will be made more full and complete than it has been for the last few years and, if within thl\ range of possibilities, will be superior to an r ol its predecessors. It is to be sincerely hoped that it will be more generally support,. ed than last ye{lr. We \vou)d say for the benefit of our Alum- ni that they will receive a copy immediately on its publication by sending the price (50 cents) to any tnember ofthe C7arnet board. · - ·- 1 . 1 ] ]

tin 3). W- re ' It g .. - THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. 55 PERSONAL . improving and deserves the support of all graduates and undergraduates. Arthur B. Moorehouse sings in the choir ' 3 s. W m. Henry Burr resides in Washing· ol Trinity c b. urch, New York city, and ton, D. C. He is wielding a strong pen in teaches in Trinity School,. besides pursuing behalf of Thomas Paine's clam1 to the author- bis Theological studies. ship of the Junius letters, and his articles are '79· F. VanDusen has been elected prin- well wort~ readiug, as they sho\V det;p cipal of the East Springfield Acaden1 y,Otsego thought and a thorough knowledge of all the :c()., N. y • certain facts rela. ting to the matter. . B . d; J h · d · . . eattie an· • • o nson were In town · ur1ng '42. Thos. Allen, .st. Louis, Pr~~1~ent ot vacation. Iron Mt. R. R., hasjustsold out h1s tnterest. .. .. in the railroad to Jay Gould for two millions... S12rague !S m the General Theological He \vas elected to the next congress from St.. Sennnary. Louis. Has been trustee of Union. • .Roper and Hutchinson are teaching in the '46. Ransom B. Welch, D. D., now Pro-. Holy,Commu nion Church Institute, Charles- fessor of Theology in Auburn Seminary, is: iion, S. C. talke? of as likely to be .the next President of 'So. Me Masters is stud ytng law in his H,am1lton College. father's office, Columbia, S. C. '47· Gabriel Bouck, of \Visconsin. was '8 I. Calvin E. Carpenter. a fornH~r mem- be~ten for Congress. Wisconsin don't like a ber, and rnore recently of Cornell, is attend- third term. : iog the Albany Medical College. He has '63. Andrew Kirkpatrick is engaged in relinquished the delights of bachelordo1n and Law at Newark, N. J. I-le IS very popular taken to himself a wife. His marriage was both with his clients and ·his brother la vvyers. · celebrated Dec. 27th, I 88o. We tender ''Carp\ '6 D · l c Sf M D h , . our hearty congratulations and wish him 1 4· ai!Ie . ·N ltnsyon, k · d., . as a ve~y :much happiness and bliss. arge practice 1n ew or an IS greahy. ________________ _ loved by h1s numerous patients. He married I: OBI1'UARY a daughter ot Dr. Willard Parker. , · 'ro. Rev. G. F. Genung, pastor of the Hon. Alfred Payson Crqfts, of the class ot B · h h B ld · ·n N y · th '57, died at \V olcott, N, Y., Dec. r 8th, r 88o, -apt1st c urc at a WlnSVI e, · ., IS e aged 5 r years and 2 months. He pursued, author ot a prize essay on \Candidating- his studies first at Williams College, but leav- its Defects and its I rnprovenlent.'' published ing there entered the Junior Class of Union, in the Exa1niner and reviewed with commen- and took his degree with the class of '5 I. dation by the New York Evangelist. He afterward obt;:tined the degree of M. D. M.A. Veeder resides in Lyons. N. Y., and, frotn the Buffalo Medical College, and prac- is reading anatomy, etc., in his leisure tno-. tised medicine in Huron, N. Y., until the ments. breaking out of the war, when he served for , '71. Ernest A. Co~bin is princival. of the •· four years a~ Acting As:>ista?-t Surg;eon in the Greenbush Graded School, and President or U. S. Hospital at Alexandria, D. C. At the the Rensselaer County Teachers Association.:~ close of the war he ren1oved to Wolcott, N. '74· H. W. Lawrence has a large medicaL':\\·· and entered upon a very successfulyrac- practice at Ballston. ' ~1se. He was ever an ~arnest worker 111 the , _ . . : Interests of the Republican party, but never 76. ~uck, w~o was for a short tui?~ _In-, held any political position until 1879, when structor In Phys1cs here, has been VlSittng-; he received the nomination for Member of frie_nds in t~e city during vacation. He now; Assembly from the rst Dist. of Wayne Co., resides at Towanda, Penn. : and was elected by the largest majority then '77· 0. H. Rogers IS on the Corps· of, ever given in his district. Soon afterward Engineers of the Department of Parks, New· his health failed, and he was unable to occu. York City. py his seat in the Legislature for n1ore than '78. E .. P. Lansing is with a manufacturing a few weeks. He. was a prominent member firn1 in Cohoes. He subscribes for the CoN- of .the. Presbytc:rian church and_ was very CORDIENSlS and writes that it is continually .active In Masonic and G. A. R. circles.

I 56 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. The Rev. Dr. Leonard Woods died in · They have been holding revival meetings Boston, Dec. 26, 1 88o, -aged 72 years. He at the North western University, and a social. was born in Newburgh in 18o7, was gradu- lethargy has resulted. a ted at Union in the class .of '27, and from At Harvard the passing mark has been 1839 t.o 1866 was President of Bowdoin Col- raised from thirty-three and a third to forty lege. He was the author of many volumes. per cent, and considerable grumbling results In I 866 he received the degree ot D. D. from therefrom. Harvard, and that of LL. D. from Bowdoin. They study the theory of music and prac- in 1866. tise vocal music at ·Harvard·, but are nOt The deaths are also annou need of Rev. satisfied because they can not learn to play Richard Thurston Searle, class of '3 5, at afl sorts of instruments. Danvers,, Mass. Annual examinations for ho11ors have been Rev. Eliakin Phelps, '14, at Weehawken,· abolished at Trinity and now an attained N.J., on Wednesday, Dec. 29, I88o, aged 90 tnark ofg n1akes an Honor-n1an. The students years. are greatly rejoiced at the change. Rev. Luther 1-ialsey, D. D., '12, at Bloom-· The Michigan University has a nevv ob- ingtove, aged 86 years. se.rvatory and instruments for use by the Aaron D. Lane, of the class of '1 6, at students. A six inch telescope and splendid equatorial instrument are among the equip- Waterloo, N ~ .Y ., aged 84 years. men ts. ·COLL EGENSIA, Sn1oking- is not allowed on the campus at Cornell. The Faculty act as policemen in · the n1atter and pounce do\vn on any poo.r lVleasles at Harvard. · wight ·who rnay happen to be enjoying his cigarette or pipe there. Harvard opens its library on Sunday. · H Cliques exist to such an extent in the 1 un- The squad drill sYstem is in use at ar- ior and Sophomore classeS of the North- vard. western University that the Vzdette devotes Amherst is mourning the death of Profes- a page to devising means of changing the ex- sor Root. isting o.rder of thmgs. At Tufts the students are mistaken !or Cambridge, Mass., has just celebrated the tramps by the police. 25oth anniversary of its settlement. Harvard The So phs go round in masks and haze the was founded ten years later. Longfellow Freshmen at Amherst. and Holmes attended the celebration, which At Williams they are in continuous trouble was of a purely literary character. about the chapel choir. At the University of Pennsylvania coat- A course of lectures has been established rooms are provided for the students to place at Brown for citizens and students. their superfluous clothes in during recitations. At the Northwestern University the Sen- Son1e of the fellows however are not satis- iors make money from their lecture courses. fied because there is not a separate locker for Garfield's tvvo sons are going to Williams each man. ~ after Christmas. At least so says the Troy At Kenyon the students are not allowed to Tz'mcs. leave the \Hill\ without the permission of No one is allowed to enter the dining room the President, and all hut upper classmen at Trinity unless he has paid 1or his board in must be back before 7 P. 1\1. No one can be advance. · absent all night without permission from pa- Trinity is to have a series of lectures on rents under penalty of ten zeros. . scientific subjects C(}nnected with its new The 38th commencement of Williams next Ward museum. . summer will be the 25th anniversary of the Harvard stands third in the foot-ball graduation of Gen. Garfield's class, and as championship list, being beaten by both there is to be a reunion of the class it is ex- Princeton and Yale. pected that the President, who is also one of I'heodore 'filton lectured at the North- the col~ege t'rustees, 'viii be present. western University last month on \The At the Sophomore cremation of text books. World's To-Morrow.\ . at the University of Pennsylvania the medi-

j . THE CO·NCORDIENSI.S. 57 cal students attetnpted to break up the pro- The ~Colby Eclto comes out with a very at·· .ceedings. The Sophs had a guard of thirty· tractive Christmas number. policemen, ~ut t~e Medics .attacked the.m In the ColleR'e Index at December we notice and made things hvely for a t1me. Ten were <..> arrested and three policem·en sent to hospital. an article on the French Language as illus~ The Faculty of the University of Pennsyl- trating French character. Its points seem to vania has just matured a scheme for a five. us to be well take'n and clearly and neatly years course at that institution. A year as· _ d' k· ,: . . Sub-junior has been inserted between Sopho- exp. 1 esse '· ln rn~r ed. contrast to this IS ·:he more and Junior years. After the first two' review of Froude s Estimate of Cresar, wh1ch years st?dy the classes ~r~ak into sections, appears like the barking of a cur at a n1asto- for special work. _The minlmt~m age for en- .. don. , trance has been lowered to fifteen. Gr,eat things are expected from this curriculum. The trustees of Cornell University at a re- cent meeting appropriated $roo,ooo to in- crease their facilities for instruction as follows: For the building and equipment of a physical department, $so,ooo; for the build- ing and equipn1ent ot a veterinary and anaton1ical department, $ Io.ooo; for a green- house and other equipment of a botanical d.epartment, $ Io,ooo; for the library, $zo,ooo for the civil-engineering and other depart- ments, $Io,ooo. A. Burkett Webb, who is now in Europe, was appointed Professor of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Me- chanics. EXCHANGES. '\fhe Rouge et Noir o£ Trinity College, Tor- onto, cotnes to us this month for the first time. Its literary work speaks for itself and its pages are rnarked throughout by an active, genial and progressive spirit. The Vox A cademice is 1nuch like a small boy on ice and knocks about indiscriminate- ly. It is exceedingly brash in its remarks on exchanges. Look to the Acadenzy, ' 4 Young- un,\ and rest the Vox awhile. Th:e College Argus, recently deplored the existence ot a literary department in our paper. Despite its harsh criticism \Ve still hold to our former course and shall endeavor ------·----·· ___ .. . ------ - ------------------ to encourage any and all efforts in this di- During the last n1onth we have received ~ rection. We hold to the motto that \prac- the following new exchanges: Rouge et No£r, I tice makes perfect,\ which unfriendly criti- Acta Victoriana, Notre .Da1-ne Scholastic, C. C. of N. Y., Free Press, Claverack Courant, Vox Acade1nice. The Acta Victoriana from Cobourg.()ntario, shows cotnn1endable zeal in its general n1ake- up, and the editorial, local and personal de- partn1ents cannot fai~ to make it very interest- ing to the Alumni and students of the Victoria University. ()ne of the editors ot the Claverack Courant has evidently been among the girls,-or per- haps t's a girl. We judge frorn the statistics present~d in their last number with.regard to the ages, weight, height, size of shoe, color of eyes, COO)plexion, etc., of some One hun- dred and fr)rty young ladies in Claverack College. ci\m surely does not. · The Tujtont'an hails from a petty U ni ver- salist institution located son1ewhere near the shadow of Bunker Hill. The Tujtonian is very high-toned-in fact so high-toned as to be inappreciable by persons so unfortunate as ne\'er to have received any Boston ''Cul- cha w.\ It consists of eleven pages of read- ing matter, two of which are given up to \Book Notices.\ It is only twelve cents a copy, which is retnarkably cheap-quality and quantity consiqered. If it gave a little more attention to locals, etc~, and less to lit- erary reviews and high-toned moralizing it \Vould be infinitely better. But w·e have to take it as it is, with its \Veak-kneed editorial department, bad poetry~ \VOrse parodies, and

-, 58 THE CONCORDIENSIS. EXTRANEA. -EPITAPH.-- general moroseness, needing only a -black border to make it a memorial patnphlet. The Tuj'tonian is not fitted for so practical an age as the present. It takes its flight into the. O'er this poor Junior's silent clay, Kind stranger, do not grieve; region of theories and would turn this wicked His death took place when Proffie caught wicked world Into a paradise by means of· A pony up his sleeve.-Ex. its editor's little pen. The Tujtonian is also· -Tutor.- Now you understand, it's the great on logic,~and it can't even distinguish square of the base. an hun1orous article from a metaphysical trea- Fresh. (eagerly.)-Oh, yes sir, l see. tise. It would evidently wish Josh Billings Tutor.-W rong, sir, it's not I C, Its B C. to clothe his w.itticisn1s in the language of an-_ Take your seat! (Fresbie reposes in dis- dd . Th 7 · h · k · gust.)-Ex. A - • 1son. - e 'ufto;zzarz t In s 1t over- -CAusE AND EFFECT.- w helms the CONCORD IENSIS by 1ts December A Soph with the cheek of a gipsy number, but it plainly shows that it utterly Came up to exams. very tipsy; failed to \see the point\ in the articles it As he sat in his chair criticises. MORIBUND US. AIR-Bogie lJ![ an. F'rom the Acta Columbiana. I. Come gather round, collegians, so :full o:f fun and glee, I'll now describe a member of the college :familee; You'll see him shake and shiver as his countenance you scan, And people cry, when he goes by, \Whist! the Prince- ton man!\ CHORUS: Whist! whist! whist! here comes the Princeton man! Mix quinine and vaseline as quickly as you can. Whist! whist! whist! he's underneath the ban- Harvard, Yale and Little Rutgers, shun the P1inceton man! II. One day, as I was walking out across the Jersey flats, I smelled an odor rising as from ·putrefying cats, And then the Jersey children, who a1•ound the roadway ran, All sniffed the sewer-gas and cried, \Whist! the Prince- ton man!\ III. When forth he drags his fevered limbs to walk a brace of miles, The doctors slap tl:ieir s~ddle- bags, the undertaker smiles; And, as his livid countenance and glassy eye they scan, The sextons seize their spades, and shout: '\Whist! the Princeton man!\ CHORUS: - Whist! whist! whist! here comes the Princeton man! Get the coffins ready, boys, as quickly as you can. Whist! whist! whist! here ends his mortal span:-. Hark, the spectral voices calling, \Whist! the Prince- ton man!'' He smelled strongly of beer. He is now living up in Poughkeepsie. -Ex; -Lady student, reciting back Latin.- ''Ego et {rater a1nbula1nus, l and brother \valk.\ Prof.-·'· Whose brother?\ Lady .student, absently.-Oh, rnost any- body's. Curtain.-Ex. -Irate Professor.-Mr. R., I don't be- lieve you ever committed anything to men1- ory. Mr. R's chum.- Wrong again, Professor, .he knovvs all the girls on the Avenue,:by heart. -When I flounder in Gre€k, Or Faust or Loomis makes me reek, Who braces up my falling cheek? My Pony. When my winks in vain are wunk, And my last stray thoughts are thunk, · Who saves me from a shameful flunk? My Pony.-.Ex. --Senior (asks Prof. a very profound ques- tion.) Prof.- Mr. W.- a fool can ask a ques- tion that ten wise rnen could not ans\ver. Senior.-Then, I suppose that's whv so many of us flunk:.-Ez. - -He kissed her fan, ~nd then said he \This fan, whene'er you ply it, Will waft a kiss from you to me,\ She blushed, and said she'd ~ry it.-Ex. -A professor in Cornell, lecturing on the effect of the wind in some \Vestern forests, • - ret ev tw IDl an In w kr ar tb e~ e< I ~ ' Vl g: c~ n u ft 0 li c \' t1 0 s a . 11 c 1: r t t r l

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 59 remarked: '''ln traveling along· the road I even sometinies found the logs bound and tw·isted together to such an extent that a mule couldn't climb over thetn, so l went d \ E aroun ·. - x. ---Edward Morris has written an \Ode to Infancy,\ beginning as tollo\vs: ''0 little child! Stretched <>n thy mother's knees with steadfast gaze . . A.nd innocent aspect mild, Viewing this novel scene in mute amaze.\ Too much poetic license here, Ed ward, . When a child is 'stretched on its n1other's knees' it doesn''t view things in ''mute amaze.''_,_-PJti!adelpltia Bulletin. -The number of colleges established in the United States prior to 1790 were 14; establish~d from 1790 to 1820, 13; establish- ed trom 1 8:20 to I 8 50, 8o; established f ron1 I 850 to 18&o, 251. l'he follow·ing is a tabular view of the condition of the colleges in re- gard to their principal elen1ents: N urn ber of colleges, 358; number ot instructors, 3,203: number of students, 30,368; nun1ber of vol- umes in college libraries, 2,187,932; inconae from productive funds, $2,548,324; value of college property, $36,87I,213.-Ex. -''Ah, that's what I like! that's what I Jike !\ chirped old Mr. Whistle blossom as he came carefully down the hill where the boys were exercising their sleds. \lf there's any- thing I really love it's to see the boys, full of · animal sp1r1ts, enjoying these wintry sports.\ And just at that instant a hundred and fifty pounds of anitnal spirits came dash- ing down the hill ou a double-runner, and caught the unsuspecting Mr. Whistle blossom betw·een the heels. There was a sound of revelry by night, and when they picked up the unfortunate gentleman, and had pinned together the ruptured back of his coat, he remarked in a tQne so gentle that it made him quite black in the face, that the city gov- ernment w bo would refuse to pass a la \V making it a reform school crime to slide on the streets were a set of pusillanimous ya- hoos. POLE'S MODERN WHIST IN RHYME. Fr.om the Cincinnati Gazette. If you the modern game of whist would know From this great principle its precepts flow. Treat your own hand as to your partner's joined,. And play, not one alone, but both combined. Your first lead makes your partner understand What is the chief component of your hand, And hence there is necessity the strongest That your first lead be from your suit that's longest. In this with ace and king, lead king then ace; With king and queen, king also has first place; With ace, queen, knave, lead ace, and then the queen, With ace, four small ones, ace should first be seen. With queen, knave, ten, you let the queen precede; In other cases vou the lowest lead. tJ 'Ere you return your friend's, your own suit play, But trumps you must return without delay. When you return your partner's lead, take pains To lead him back the best your hand contains, If you received not more than three at first: If you had more, you may return the worst. But if you hold the master card you're bound To play it, in most cases, second round. Whene'er you want a lead, it's seldom wrong To lead ''up to the weak\ or ''thro' the strong.\ In second hand your lowest should be played, Unless you mean ''Trump signal\ to be made; Or if you've king and queen or ace and king, Then one of these will be the proper thing. Mind well the rules for trumps, you'll often need them. When you hold five, 'tis always right to lead them, Or if the lead won't come in time to you, Then signal to your partner so to do. To lead thro' honors turned up is bad play, Unless you want the trump suit cleared away. \Vhen second hand a doubtful trick you see, Don't trump it if you hold more trumps than three, But having three or less trump fearlessly. \\Vhen weak in trumps yourself, don't force your friend, But always force the adverse strong trump hand. For sequences stern custom has decraed, The lowest you must play if you don't lead. When you discard, weak suits you ought to choose, For strong ones are too valuable to lose. -Five physicians ot Ott.um\va, Ia., made Ne\V Year's calls in a b'>b-sled drawn by six horse.s ornamented with pampas plumes, and presented a card on which their names w:ere printed around a fig-ure of a dancing skeleton \vith the motto, \Corning events cast their shadow before/' underne,tth.

f \ \ . ' t'. ' I ' ·6.0 THE C·QNC·ORDIENSIS. THE LATE DWIGHT K. BARTLETT~ of many excellencies of character, of clear · . , powers of mind and blameless tenor and Rev. Dwight K. Bartlett, D. D., pastor of • habits of life. He has lelt his foundation and the Second Reformed Church, of Alb~ny, · his monument in the almost completed new died January I I th, I 88 I • under a s~rgical, edifice to the building of which he impelled oper?tion in New York city, to which _lie his people, and in which every stone could submitted in consequence of an obstructwn .. justly be stamped with his name. His pulpit in the throat. ·labors were faithful, plain, and Impressive, Rev. Dr. Bartlett was born in the city~~ • His pastoral work combined tact, manliness Poughkeepsie, in the !ear I832, w?ere his and sympathy in large measure. His ad~in­ mother, brothers and !'Isters still resrde. At · istrative abilities were unusually effective an early age he determined to join the and his denomination and his cong-regation ministry and, entering Union Colleg-e, was have reason to remember him as a master in due time graduated, with honors. H: workman in the cause in which he believed subsequently entered the Princeton Theologi- thoroughly and wrought truly. His death, cal Seminary. He was afterward duly or- in the prime ot his labor and power is ex- dained and his first charge was at Stam.ford, tremely affecting. It is distinctly untimely Conn., he then being in the CongregatiOnal in human calculation, but the revealings of denomination. From there he w.as called to the future will show the purpose in it. Him- the Plymouth Congregational ~burch, at. self and people were about to dedicate the Rochester, and from Rochester, lll March, new edifice they unitedly .reared; but his I874, he went to Albany, accepting a _caii to life dedicates and his death consecrates it the Second Reformed church, of which he above the power and meamng of celebration has ever since, up to within a day or two of or cerem·onial. No one can take from his his death, continued to be the beloved pas- record here its crown ol heroic ·self-denial, tor. For months past a great portion ?f his abounding confidence and splendid achieve- time and energies had been engrossed 111 ar- ment. His relatives will have the condolence rangements for the dedication of the new of all considerate men and women. Their church edifice on MadisOn avenue, Albany, sorrow is one with which a stranger inter- the construction of which lle had been large-· rneddleth not; but every generous heart lv instrumental in securing. The situation will feel tOr them in their gr<\at affliction. ~f the church at the present time, just about The religious and moral forces of Albany to occupy their new edifice, and suddenly. had a staunch friertd 3nd exemplar in deprived of their counsellor, pastor and· the man who has passed from labor into rest, leader, is peculiarly unfortunate, and they and whose works do follow him.· That in will have the sincere sympathy of the entire many organized capacities they will express religious community in their sad and sudden their sorrow and their respect is not to be bereavement. Rev. Dr. Bartlett was . an doubted, and that the influence of Dwight earnest, faithful and, above all, a conscien- K. Bartlett, a sincere man and a true minis- tious worker for souls, and while he made no ter and steward ot the gospel, will long abide pretensions to being what is com_monly for good, as a benediction among and over known as a fashionable preache:, his Ian- his people, is one of those facts which every guage was plain, simple attd easily under- remembered incident and the whole collec- Stood and his reasonin~ ~nd argu rnent's al-j ti ve character of h i.s useful and fragrant life ways forcible at~d convmc10g. He lea\es a I most thoroughly attest. wite, but no cbtldren. _. . . ____ \ _ \\ -~. The Albany Argus, from which we take • --.1 he £!m~n.cha~ter of th~Deltayhl fra- h b ·pay\ s the followina editorial trib- termty, will, tt IS smd, entertain the Saratoga t e a ove, < \\ . • .. ., • . • 1 . ute to his memory: f)r. Bartlett was a man.: \Cooking (Jub, Friday eventng, an. 2 rst. c 1 1( ) ] .. ( ]

ll- y )[ e s t • . . 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. III STUDENTS~ THE GARNET! Bu v Your BOOKS at the COLLEGE JlOOK STORE, North Section, South College . ~Second hand books bought and exchanged. Stationery' w·· · .. I L\. L·. s-.o. _: iQ• N- A·' p·_. -p. E· A. R· ... Draughting Paper, etc. . WILLIAM STOOPS, Merchant Tailor ! THIS INTERESTING And Dealer in Cloths, Oassim.eres, Vestings, Etc. ' c o-1-1· . e· g. . ·e A·: nn.· u· a· I· 107 State St., - Schenectady, N. Y. _ . ·. -------------------- -- . -- -··-' --- ------ --- WILSON DAVIS,· M ·r IS NOW\ ) ..... Ef\_CHANT AILOR. 115 State St., ScHENECTADY, N.Y. IN COURSE OF PREPARATION ---- -------- -- ---- fV: H. g. S. Tl. LINES, · UNDER THE AUSPIUES OF DEALERSIN ' BOOTS, ~HOES & RUBBERS, BARNEY BLOCK, '81 AND '82 . ' SCHENECT:\OY, N.Y. Y'· ~. J--· f· puRLEY 1 And will be replete with good MANUFACTURER-~ oF ·things.· It 1;vill be sent immedi- Civil Engineers' & Surveyors' Instruments, 1 11 h TROY~ N.Y. · ate y on publication, to a w o Dealers in Dl·awing Instruments of every description,. send Fifty Cents to Sheet and Roll Drawing Paper, Engineers' and Surveyors' Transits, etc., etc. L. G .. BuRGEss' SoN & Co., HORATIO G. GLENN, COLLEGE F~ATERNITY B).DGES, MANAGER, • No. r2 PLAINSTR-EKl\ SCHENECTADY, N, Y. ALBANY, N. Y_ We commenJ our Bauges ior their Fineness--a~.d Du- ~For advertising rates address as above. rability.

IV TH~. CONCORDIENSIS. JOHN SCHuMACHER, ROBERT T. MOIR, AGENT FOR .(Suec~ssor to John Gilmour,) Fitzpatrick's Fine Boots & Shoes. JB(JOK§ §?}A._!Jfl!ONEBY. Particular attention paid to Cnstom Work , p· · ' H · . & ' and Repairing. APER : ANGINGS, C. No. 201 State and 116 Centre St., ScHENECTADY, N. Y. 267 State St., Schenectady' N. y. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlantic -- . ~teamship Lines. Sanford Block. A. EROVT-N & SON., S TA· GE. )S UPHOLSTERERS. AND FuRNITuRE· MANUFAcTuRERs. .Ladies' & Gents' 1lestaurant, I 54 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. -----·----------- CHAS. N. YATES, FURNITURE 9'- UPHOLSTERING VT AREHOUSE., ~Special Attention Given to Undertaking. 174 STATE STREET, ScHENECTADY. C. VAN SLYCK, , DEALER IN F'LouR .AND CoAL, Sawed and Split Wood of every Description, Lime, Ce- No. 62 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. ment, Pressed Hay by the Ton or Bale. Nos. 57 Centre & 7 Pine Sts. Schenectady. L. T. CLUTE, FASHIO:N'ABLE HATTER, .Best Assortment in the City of HA'fS, CAPS, TRUNKS, BAGS, ETC. Agent for Dunlap and Knox Hats. IOI State St., Schenectady, N.Y. .ANDRE\V Me MULLEN, Wholesale and Retail Dealer • In Coal, 92 and 94 Union St., Schenectady. ------------·----- JA1\1ES B. ALEXANDER, ------·------- ---- ---~--- Globe Hotel, CoRNER STATE, SouTH PEARL AND HowARD STREETs, Entrance, 7 So nth Pearl St. ALBANY, N.Y. JAiJ;IES A. HO UOJ(, Propr·ietor. Terms, $2.oo per day. R. K. QUAYLE, .ALBANY., N.Y. DIPLOMAS, -VIE\tVS, PORTRAITS, WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS, ETC., ETC. Original Designs -when desired. SANDERS~ Gl sc - 1( Alsc N< Dealer in W Staple And Fancy Groceries, J E '1\1 E L E R. Goods just as cheap and just as good as anywhere in the city. CHOICE CIGARS AND TOBACCO. 109 S'f A'IE S'I'., SCHENE(~T ADY, N. Y. 225 State St1·eet, Schenectady. W. T. HANSON & CO., Druggi~~es & Apo~hec(/Jl/Jries, TOILET ARTICLES AND DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. DANCING. ~4. G. GR,1_ VESJ JR., Teacher of Dancing, announces that his Academy, Nos. 59 and 6r North Pearl St., Albany, N. Y., is now open for the reqeption of pu .... pils, who may enter at any time. Children, Misses and Masters meet every S\TURDAY AI-~~TERNOO'N at three .,'clock. Ladies and . 1 Gentlemen meet every MONDAY EVENING at 7 o'clock. The ~Fine Cigars a Specla ty. Waltz and two other round dances taught perfectly in Siw Privute 1g5 State St., Schenectady, N. ·y. 'LPs.~o,ts. N.B.-Positivelyno failure in this school. His style of Waltz is universal, and may be danced with any waltzer in anv part of the world. Call at the Academy at any time. Terms moderate. S. H. VEDDER, Coal and V\!ood, Wholesale a.nd Retail Dealer in EA UJ.Y.!~s CIGAR STORE j\ND ~EWS ~OOM.~ R1EFINED CJDER AMD PURE CIDER VINEGAR The choicest br~:tnd of Cigars autl 'I'obacco constantly 1 ~ J · 1\ 1 , ' '. on band. Ciga1·ettes a fipeciaHy. Al1 tihe leading pexi- P o. Box 43 6. No. 61 PARK PLACE, Schenectady. odicalH. Snbsci·ip~imis respeetfnHy solioited . . t, •• R

' G •· 'THE CONCORD·l.E.NSIS. V -~~---------~-------------- . . - ---- _. GEORGE E. VINCENT, GENTS' FURNISHING GOODS, And l\1unufacturer of the ~yers~ Block~· sCHENEC1~ADY, N. Y. ------- - ----- ------ - --------- 10TH REGIMENT BAND A 11d OI~r_• . .tiestra, BEST ML.TSICAL ORGANJZA'J:'ION IN THE STATE, Also makes a specialty of furnishing Music for Private Parties, with or without Pianist. ~Gentlemanly deportment a consideration as well as music. FRED. AUSTIN, LEADER. No. 77 State St., 1\lbany, N. Y .. J. H. BARHYTE, ~. '· DEALER IN HAMMAN & RITZER, MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN B 00 KS ST A TI 0 N ER y BOOTS & SHQ£S, Paper H:ngingsand Decorations. ' I22Yz UNION STREET., ;ScHENECTADY, r· )· We are doing REPAIRING and OUSTOl\i 'WORK at REMARKABLY LOW RATES. If you do not be lieve it, call flnd test our priceR. We are located near the College, and especially solicit STlTf)ENTS' PATRONAGE. VVOOD BROS. Ready..;Made, i\ t.AI~(;E Ll NE OF UN f)El{ vVE~-\ R. :\11 the lat<'Rt ~tyle SCARFS. TIES, COLLARS, &C., &C. A FULL Ll~E OF COLL-EGE TEXT BOOKS. ~Rooms Papered at Short Notice. I I I STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N. Y. . -- ---- ·------------- ------ ---- ----·-- NOBBY CLOTHING ----- - --- ----- ----·---- ---------- _____ , FIN .t: }{. EADY -MADE ()V EHCO.-\TS, SUITS, PANT~. Young 1\Ien's TraLle Soli..~ite l ~tt WILSON & GROSS' ' ~GoodR RecPivPJ for Troy La.nndry. '. 133 State Street, .. ScHE.:\FCTADY, ~- Y. Cor. BroadwaJI c~ Maiden Lane, Albany, N. Y .. l

·•. I i , ~ I • VI T 118 C<)NC<JI{JJlENSlS. Continues to recci ve o~ders, and to furnish, vvith promptness, THE BEST AN ·:·D;· :1 ' ' LATEST I_,.MPROVED. _) GQAL OR WOOD BURNI~G LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES, .\ ~ f> <) r 11 E R RAILROAD MACHINERY, TIREs, &c. And also to rep~dr and rebuild locon1ot-ives. The above 'Works are located on the N.Y. C. H. R., near the -center of the State, an<i possess superior f:aei;Jities for forvvarding vvork to any part of the co\\-tntry. ·CHAS. G. ELLIS, \tV ALTER lVlc Q!lJEEN, EI.YVVARD ELLIS, JOHN SWIFT, President. Pice-Pre side nt. Treasurer. Superinttmdent -------------------------------- - ------ ---------------------- ---- --- -·-------· --------------- JOSEPH GILLOTT'S ) ST 'PE£ p•D 1\1''-'r Sold by all dealers through- 'I ~ - D J.!.J .J V U • out the World. Q) ~ The favoi'it.c\ N nn1bers, ~03, 404:, 352, 351, 170, and his other styles. 188o~ Fa.! I And Winter. 1 881. Look here for all the N obby Styles of HATS AND CAPS at rock bottom prices. BEYER 5 '' THE \ HATTER, r 49 State St., Schenectady. --------~ ------~----~----------- ------ Y. M. C. i\. COF_f.~bE ROOM, Corner State and Ferry Streets. Bfl_,L OF F,.i~r~E. --- ~-- ----------~-----~ WELLS. EL<JCU.I'IC)N. Pupils prepa1·ed for Public Readers and Teache1·s of ElJcutiou. The system o:f gesture and expression errt- pl,1ye<1 is the s~-tme a.s taught in the Conse1·vatory at Paris. A pplicat.iou can be made nt residence, 305 Olin- ton Avenue, Albany~ hetwf'eu 4 and 5 P. M. Address, SAMUEL E WELLS, DTawer88, Albany N. Y. lVI1·. '.\'ells was engaged upon the leading lecture cmusf'R last season. Strengthening and developing weak voices n specialty. Send for eircula1·. Oysters, Raw, - Iz Cents. Milk Toast, ro Cents •• Stewed, IS \ Bread and lVI ilk, 5 \ ' \ Fried,- 25 '· BTeadandButter, 3 •• 1/jAIGI 'THE- )) TAJLOID' Beefsteak, or Ham and Sandwiches, (each) - 3 ' 1 r\ j I vI I t1 n' Eggs with Potatoes, Crullers, - Two f0r 3 \ Bread and Butter, and E~gs, boiled, poached, I 02 State St.~ Schenectady. Coffee, 25 \ fried, scrambled.(each) 3 \ , Baked Beans per plate, 6 \ Coffee or Tea. 3 \ J A.li thB Latest St,Yles of OassirnPres, :Beavers and Suit-. Pot of Boston Baked Pie. - s '' · 1 1, d tr\\\'li\ G Beans-to order, so \ Milk per glass, 3 \ ~ l!::gs a ways ou uan · ~\' armeut.s Cut un~t Milk Sangaree, - 5 \ ; 1\fude in the Lat-est Styles ut the , ~Free Readmg Room and Library adjoining. I Cheapest Rates I - , . - -- ---------- ---- ----- ·---- c. F. RIEGER, I THUS. H. l>~l~I:.:E-, & co., ' SHAVING AND HAIR DRESSING PARLORS. I Fancy and Staple Dry Goods, · ~l'lltronized hy Students.. . I 187 ~tate St., (Up Stairs) Schenee:t~dy.) CARPETINGS,OIL CLOTHS, &c., A !so, a large hne of CH:Jthsp!nd Cass1meres. 1 ~~ ..... State St., Schenectadt·. N. 'l. ' J ' - ---~----- ----------- \PRINTED A. 1' '1'HE A:.\IRTERD •U DAILY l)El\'IOCRA'l' Sl'EA:\1 PHI~ l'l~d- HD1JSm. ' . ' --- - Voi - - pUB I J. C. TI Th, at W I laurc: pUTSl :2 guag and. men I tion, tiom facil: worl < selec one com· and F<

