THE CONCORDIENSIS. ---~----------------- VOL. V. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., JuNE, 1882. NO. IX. PuBLISHED MoNTHLY 13Y THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF-E. C. MURRAY, '82. Literary Department, - A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. ! E. W. GREENE, '82. Local Devartment, G. F. ALLISON, '84. J. G. GREENE, '84. Athletic Department, A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. W. K. GILCHRIST, '83. Personal Department, - Exchange Department, l Extranea Department, - J. E. RANSDELL, '82. Collegensia Department, BusrNEss MANAGER- JOHN R. BRIDGE, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADDREss: JOHN R. BRIDGE, P. 0. Box 43I, Sckmectady, N. Y. ~ The CoNCORDIENSIS will be found on sale at Barhyte's, III State Street. --- --~ ~~- - ~-- - ~~~----------------- Entered at the Post Office at ~chenectady as Second class--Matter, --------- Printed LJy Cha~. Burrows, Steam Printer, 187 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Summer Song (poetry). - History, Prophecy, Address, Salutatory, Class Oration, Ivy Oration. Honoriad, - EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT. IJ2 IJ2 176 183 186 187 CoMMENCEMENT, OBITUARY. Albert E. Carmichael, ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT. LocAL DEPARTMENT. CoNCORDIENSIS Editors, Notice to Subscribers, President Potter's Letter, In Memoriatn (Russell Bene- dict), 197 I99 202 205 205 205 206 Junior and· Sophomore Prize Speaking, 195 President Arthur's Regrets, 206

The sun 1s down, the sky is dear, The slow moon rises full, And fan the hill-side far and near, Night breezes soft and cool. Oh lads and ]asses, where ye lurk, Come forth and sing with me ; The summer day was made for work, The summer night for glee ; Then raise the choral song, And swell it loud and long, The summer day was made for work, The summer night for glee. \\'hat care we now that winter pale, Frowns on us from afar, And all this verdure soon n1ust fail Before his rising star? We'll pluck such stores from summer's sheaves Our cheeks \\ ith health will glow, How deep soe'er the withered leaves Grim winter hides with snow. \Ve'll,raise a choral song, And swell it loud and long, How deep soe'er the withered ]eaves Grim winter hides \.\ ith snow. -:~~~ffi~~~~~~~~~~~ l)rsmo~Y. SENIOR CLASS EXERCISES. BAYARD WHITEHORNE. Mr. President, Brothers of the Class of' 82, Ladies a'ttd Gentle1nen : It was on the I 8th day of Septem- ber, I 878, that a gallant band of forty ~\'reshmen entered the classic walls of Old Union. The day was a glori- ous one, filling one with that fresh- ness only to be attained on a hrigh t autumn morning; and well it might, for on that day was ushered into College the noblest class that ever entered Union. One of the first severe blows to our college aspirations was ~ ghastly head protruding from the top win- dow of North Section, South College; it was 0. G. Browne, uttering with an accent of which he alone was cap· able, those awful words, \ Oh Frash! Oh Frash!\ But if our courage was shaken during the day, what must it have be~ en at night, when all of '79, 'So !lnd '8 I came to our roon1s, as if they were public halls, n1erely to find out as they said vv-hat ~Sort of orators we had, and also to get suitable per- sons to fill vacancies in the Glee Club. For the latter Jimmy Adair was una- nimously chosen by the co1nmittee on account of his exquisite rt~nd ering of that remarkably pathetic song, \Old Grimes is dead, that poor old 1nan.\ The finest of our orators was found to be Joe White; in fact he became so possesseu with h_is own merits that he determined to be an actor, and finally obtained a position in Mrs. Scott Siddon's troupe. The chief event of first tern1 was the rush. Even now I recall the work we did, the class meetings, the cornmi ttees, but most of all the scenes enacted. The rush was set or a certain Friday morning, aqd any one who was in Chapel that day saw every Freshman's hea~ bowed devotedly, as if in prayer, but had he looked carefully he would have no- t

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 173 1 ticed cravats and collars disappearing in pockets. We \vere preparing for the conflict. Son1e of our men in their haste to get out of Chapel, for- got to let Prex go out first, the con- sequen~e was that Prex proved him- self to he the strongest Freshman of us all, for, unaided but undaunted, he triumphantly carried off two canes. One of our n1en mistaking the Doctor for a wicked Soph, commenced to pound him, but he soon found out his n1istake and concluded that he had very urgent bt1siness elsewhere. But we were not to be cowed by this ; for learning that should we rush outside of College hours we would not be disturbed by the high- er po\Vers, at 4 P. M., on the I 5th of October. we asset11b1ed in the rear of South College, and being furnished with a cane marched to the Campus. 1' h e rc we were i t11ITI e d i ate 1 y as- saultcd on all sides by the yelling, hooting Sophs. The conflict waxed fierce fron1 South College to the gar- den, into which the Sophs succeeded in forcing us. But at this juncture a ] unior, fearing that the garden would be injured, snatched the cane and ran ·with it to the woods where he succeeded in hiding it. So after twenty n1inutes of hard fighting the rush was declared a tie; the Sophs bad a slight ad vantage in numbers, but \VC had considerable advantage in pluck. rfhen ·what a scene on the ca1npns after the rush ! Why thi.:; raging of the Sophs, this tearing of bair and clothes ? Why this harang- uing of the crowd by '81's immortal trio? 'Their last chance of winning a ~---------- ----- --- cane has gone. To conso1e them- selves for this ioss they published mighty pieces in the local papers, setting forth in long meter their trials and tribulations. On March 4th, the end of second ter1n Fresh, we celebrated our safe passage through Algebra by that time-honored institution, familiarly kno\vn as cremation. Everything was p1·opitious and at the hour of midnight we con1menced to parade the streets with banners flying and dazzling lights that reflected strange- ly on our weird costumes of sheets and hideous masks. The Sophs gave us a ·long blast of chin music and tin horns as we started ; but they soon quieted down, an.d we marched in peace through several streets, \vhile the townies followed us, attracted like moths by the light. About I :30 A. M., we reached the funeral pyre in the woods, and laying on the de- ceased, applied the torch. As soon as the oratorical part of the ceremony had cotnmenced the Sophs appeared in numbers and made untiring efforts to get up a row. At this time also, one of '8 r 's shining lights desired to reach the fire. He succeeded in reaching it through our Jines, and he succeeded in being helped out again; but the latter feat consumed about one-quarter the time of the former. On account 0f this aerial flight Billy got very angry, but at last he quieted down and joined the band of musi- cians who were hovering around us. When the flan1es had begun to wane, we took a hasty glance at the ashes of Bourdon and proceeded to the

174 THE CONCORDIENSlS. --------------------------------------------------------------- ------- - -- ---- ·- -------- room of our honored preceptor in Algebra, Mr. Chas. J o11es Col cock. In front of his room we sang several choice selections and called loudly for a speech, but this learned man of mathen1atics was either slun1 bering or was not an orator, or perchance he felt insulted at being hailed in so boisterous a 1nanner. At any rate we got no speech; so we separated for our rootns, foot-sore indeed, but \vith bounding hearts as we thought of the grand parade, the flaming fire against the white snow_, the hooting, yelling Sophs, and the proud, defiant looks of our boys which seerned to say, \ come on thou din.~~t foe, ()b ! bloody Soph ! and we will make you curse the day that you interfered with the lawful sports of the Freshn1en.\ At the end of third term we re- ceived the sad intelligence that Tutor Colcock was going to leave. T'his news fell with great weight on us all_, for \Ve had just completed the task of ·wading through Geometry and 'Trigonometry to the time of '' that will do.\ At the beginning of our Sopho- Inore year we visited the Freshmen in their cribs, and found one man whose deeds should be i1n1nortalized ; when told to sing, he replied that he was sorry but he had not learned that art ; he was next called on for a speech, but unfortunately he had not studied oratory; when asked if he could whistle, he said that he had never b~en able to do so in public ; we at last found only one thing that he could do, that was, he performed the very difficult feat of walking around his table to th c tune of \ the elephant now goes 'round.\ rfhe rush between '82 and 'd3 oc- curred on the I 4th of 0 cto be r, I o} 9, As soon as the Professor who pre- sided at chapel that day had finished an unusually pathetic rendering of his prayer, there was a general rush for the door. 'fhe cane was handed to the Fresh by a Junior and there- upon the conflict becan1e fierce. Both classes struggled val ian tl y frotn the chapel to North College and back on to the campus again. 'l'be con- test was doubtful and desperate, but towards the close our boys had de- cidedly the advantage, and after one hour and fifteen minutes of hard fighting, Hargrave succeeded in ·wresting the cane fron1 the surging crowd and gave it to Drowne, who ran away with it, closely followed by a few Fresh 1nan and several of our inveterate enemies, the Juniors. Hut being hard-pr . .::ssed he entered tne first house to which he could gain access; this proved to be a polJcc- nlan'!3 mansion ; but Johnnie lJc- sought the officer to protect hitn saying that. the Juniors in tended to kill' hin1, and while the worthy cop went to the front door in search of the Juniors, Johnnie skipped out of the back door and secreted the cane in a safe place, fron1 which it \Vas re-· moved by our worthy class president. The cane was sawed up, each man received a piece, and now we all keep our little blocks of wood as mernen- toes af our past triun1ph. We can rr1ake a boast that very few clas~es ever could, '82 has never lost a cane. ( 1 1 (

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 175 A me1n ber of '83 once expressed a desire to hunt snipe, and som,e of our rnen on hearing this, kindly volun- teered to conduct him to the abode of th~ birds; so one night they set out equipped with a bag and several candies. When they had arrived at I ---- toasts, which were happily responded to and caused unbounded merriment. Some of the fellows showed then1- se1 ves to be tnasters of their subjects ; for instance, Murray, in responding to \the equestrian of '82,\ showed that he knew all about I-Iarper and Bohn as well as all the other aids to the a suitable place, they explained to astonished Fresh the use of these strange implen1ents of war. He was -to place· the lighted candle at the mouth oi the bag and wait until some snipe should enter it, when he was imn1ediately to appear on the scene and secure his prey ; the rest of the party in the 111eantin1e were to scour tne woods and drive the birds in the duecuon oi the ligl~t. Our .tellows returned to college, leaving the _t1're.;un1an tu watcl1 1ur snipe, but as td.r as Wt.:, cu Ltld learn t ne only thing that entered tne bag that nignt were the rays 1·rom the candle, or per- chance the Fres11ie i1imsell, for on this point he is silent. ]'he next event of int~rest was the class supper, which occLlrr~d at An1- sterdam the fourti~ of February, 1 (:)6 r. On the appointed date we as- ::;en1bied at the Wemple Hou.:;e, and 1ro1n thence proceeded in search of amu~ement, some going to a Church sociable 1 others to a fair, wlule '3till others attended a ball and were soon whirling through the mazes uf the dance with A1nsterdam's fair datnsels. r\t 12 o'clock we sat down to the .banquet, and it is needless to ~a y that each 1nan did full justice· to the bill of fare. After all the hungry souls had been satisfied, Pollard, our worthy toast n)aster, gave out the human intellect. Griswold, too, in responding to \ Our Mashers,\ prov- ed that he had had much experience in that line. Altogether the supper was a joyous occasion and will long be remen1bered by the loyal sons of '<J o2. At the beginning of our Senior year we introduced the Oxford hat, which was destined to become a sort of con1bination instrument, for it has been turned into a book-shelf, a writ- ing-desk, a kite, and some of the un- der-classtnen say that it forn1s an ex- cellent stall for ponies ; however, of this w~ cannot be expected to testi- . fy. When this much-abused hat was in1ported it was thought to be an or- nament wor.thy of adorning the heads of dignified Seniors, but it has fallen low and been ~ubjected to the vilest puns and to a great an1ount of abuse. Throughout our college course we have, like San1my 'filden, instituted n1any and great reforn1s. Our first great work was refonning the Fresl:, which we succeeded in doing adtnir- ab1y. We did not participate in the next great task as a class, but some of our men were the chief actors in it; the task to which I refer was the reformation of the stone-walk leading ft·on1 South College to the Blue Gate; this was, indeed, a reformation, as

THE, CO!'-TCORDIENSlS. --------------- the stones were removed and boards placed in their stead. As a class we nave been unusually quiet and diligent, and have set an example which all under-classmen might be proud to imitate. ~f\OPHEGY. SENIOR CLASS EXEI~CISES. BY A. S. WRIGHT. 0 n a balmy afternoon in May, your prophet reclines on the green sward 'neath that tree in ..... Captain Jack's garden, sacred to the mernory of that good rnan. Nature is in one of her happiest moods and ''the brooks which bounds through Union's grounds \ seems to fairly laugh in joyous glee. Suddenly the old tree, the brook, the flowers, the winding paths van- ish, and in their stead is a vast chamber-one more magnificent than the wildest flights of the imagination ever pictured. Walls of purest Pari an marble rise to meet clouds whose ever changing hues rival in beauty the finest of Stal y's sunsets. The floor seems like \ a sea of liquid pearl\ scattered o'er \with dust of powdered stars.\ Music almost div- ine so sweet and sad is it, fills the place. A myriad delicate flowers breathe their sabeau aron1a. In. the centre is a fountain whose waters now clear as crystal, now rain bow hued, fall \vith a gentle patter into the limpid pool below. At the right, ------------ two colu111ns of burnished gold, in- laid with rare jewels support a marble arch upon whose front a master hand has ·wrought out the idea of the foun- ders of our Alma Mater ; for there \Vith clasped hands in token of union and equality, stand a king and serf, a proud n1aster and one of Afric's humble sons. All about, carved from a flesh -colored stone, are statues of Union's great n1en-her Se\vard, her Dr. N ott, her Arthur. Every step reveals new beauties. l-I ere the walls separate and disclose the gran- deur of an Alpine scene ; there lies a lake whose crystal waters mirror the overhanging cliff with its cling- ing evergreens ; beyond is a field of wild flowers where fountains play '-midst bowers of perpetual shade. Between each two of the statues are placed five golden volumes sup- ported by pillars of topaz and sap- phire, of agate and onyx and ch ryso- lite. From the corner of each vol- ume hangs by a silver chord a lum nous globe of opaque quartz. The semi-circular niche in which the volumes are placed seems one solid mass of amethyst or jasper, or'it 111ay be of carbuncle beautifully streaked with threads of n1anganese and cop- per, platinu111 and gold. Arnazed, dun1bfounded, yet curious, your pro- phet approaches the nearest volun1e. Upon a gem in the centre of its golden cover is engraved '' Bio- graphy of the Class of 1795, Union College; \ wild with hope he turns to the next and read \Biography of the Class of r 796.\ His heart gives a great bound ; yes, these are class c \ .

I . \- ... THE CONCORDIENSIS. •77 histories and if the good angel of '82 has but ·done its duty, the prophet's task will be an easy one. Recess after recess, eac b: vvith its golden volumes is passed until one is reached incomparably more beautiful than the others. The background seems like a great hollow diamond sending forth its myriad jets of fire to dazzle the beholder. In the centre, upon a pillar of alabaster, lies a book whose beauty palls description. Your pro- phet approaches; a design in rare rubies tells him. it is the coveted treasure ; he unloosens the clasp of pearl, turns the delicate leaves and finds the history of his classn1ates ; sometimes written, sometimes re- vealed by a picture whose characters seem to be real living persons. Upon the first page unrler the date A. D. rgoo, is the name J. M. Adair, A.M. In college it was \Old Grimes, A. .M.\ The history of the title \Old Grin1 es \ all know. The A. M. was affixed because when ]in1mie arose on a Saturday morning in the old .. \delphic hall, to n1ake a speech, everyon~ prepared for a nap, know- ing he was good for the remainder of the forenoon. But I digress.; all the spirit band had written was, \Principal of the Ox Bo\V Academy -salary $I 200 per year.\ I turn the leaf and behold a public square in one of our western cities liter- ally packed by a mob bent on raz- ing to the ground the home of an unpopular politician. Suddenly there appears on a ba.Jcon y one whose com- manding figure hushes the multitude into silence. Calmly and proudly he addresses them, and when he finishes by telling them to go to their home they disperse as quietly as it they had been attending some religious service. That man was our class- mate, Edward C. Whitmyer. rfhe next scene is a happy one. In his home, near the Hudson; our worthy President, A. A. McMurray, sits smoking, two little urchins on his knees are toying with side whis- kers of which Mac. used to say, \it seems as though they never will start.'' Near by p.re a boy and girl of about ten playing checkers, while the tvvins, Mary and Jane, are prac- ticing a new duet at the piano. .A.l- bert A. McMurray, Jr., and John are at Union and will succeed their father in the box business. Our old friend, John Peoli, bearded and browned from foreign travel, sits near, relating his adventures. He is on his way to his stock ranch in Texas to settle permanently and is pleading that Samuel McMurray, the oldest son, may go with him. Sam- my is the boy who \Von the cup which Mac., the sly dog, persuaded the class to offer for the first boy of' 82. COFFEEN. Coff. went west \to rise with the country.\ He soon· made $ so,ooo by a fortunate investment, and with it-that is with \vhat retnaincd after election-he went to Congress. He is there familiarly known as \J um- bo, our lean n1en1 ber fron1 the West.'' FORD. In the fall of '84, Ford stun1ped the State for the Republicans, speak-

THE CONCORDIE.NSIS. ------·· --·-- -~----------- ------------------- ing in all the principal cities, from Scotia to Rotterdam. The Ratter- darn Su-n, cornmenting on his speech said, \the speaker was too deep for us, but his delivery w·as quite charn1- ing.\ During this trip the drum- major of the brass band accompany- ing the speaker fell sick and Ford, in spite of his dislike {or notoriety, was persuaded to carry the baton. He had found his forte and is now drum-n1ajor of the Slabville Centre Cornet Band. \VHITEHOHNE. Whitey took naturally to the lab- oratory. He is now professor of chemistry in the n1ost fdmous ot Ohio's eight hundred and ninety- nine universities. He bas recently lost his fourth wife, but re1nains hopeful and happy, and may often be heard humming as he delves into nature's n1ysteries, \oh do not be discouraged\ and \still there's more to follow.\ WALSH. He is proprietor of a sum1ner hotel in the Adirondacks. With thirteen children, a wife, mother-in-la\v and grandmother, he is ahvays sure of a full house. But he often says that if he had another chance he'd play it 1 1: alone and keep bachelor's hall. He 1 often wishes his class-mates would I visit him, but that will be in1possible I 'till he changes the character of his house ; it's a temperance hotel nov1. PIERSON. Our old Grand Marshal, handsome as ever, sits in an elegantly furnished office in conversation with a friend. 1 \You see,\ says Harry, \the Gov- ernor said I must go to college.\ Well, the first three years was a per· feet grind, but the last year vve had a regular berry. After graduation, I settled down to the stern realities of life, and, let me tell you, the res- ponsibility of a business life is sim- ply terrible. From half-past ten A. M. till one P. M. I am always at n1y office. Actual1y the only pleasure I take in life is when, with my fan1ily, I take a three n1onths' trip to the n1ountains or the shore. \ Poor Harry,\ thought I as I turned away, you've had a hard life. POLLARD-Rector of the First Episco- pal-ian Clzun:lt, at Seneca Falls .. In I 88 I, Seneca Falls consisted of two stores, a blacksmith .shop and nine dwellings. When the boys left for Union College the village looked deserted. To-day it is a thriving town and its Episcopal church is largely attend~d. Polly's character-· istics are a capacity for deep H··ink- ing, and an angelic disposition, as indicated by his placid smile. VANWAGENEN. , \A hon1e on the ocean wave,' was Stick's favorite college song. In 1885 he fitted a vvhaler and an- nounced his intention of finding that long-lost north pole. He passed Spitzbergen bound nor-nor-west and has never been seen since. There are two theories concerning his fate; one is that some dyspeptic polar bear desiring to diet for a time, has made a 1neal of him; the other, that his companions,. disgusted at not 5nding

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 179 what they sought, have, as a prac- tical joke on future exploring parties, planted Stick where the north pole ought to be. The next is an advertisement in the Tribune. Podunk Female Acad- emy; new patent banister ; chewing . gum twenty per cent. discount ; sit- uation excellent ; near enough to the north pole so that there is abun- dance of out-door exercise in skating, riding dovvn the hill, etc., and far enough from. civilization so that the gossip of the outside world never reaches it. Elopen1ents a thing un- heard of. The principal is eminently qualified for the position, having made a study of female character fro·m his yotlth. Address for terms, S. H. Watkins, Podunk, Brier Creek County, Mon- tan a. THOMPSON. Being class treasurer, Thotnpson had a good start in life and is now at the head of a large dry good house in :Buffalo. He is as honest as his neighbors, and is \vhat they would call down east-a right smart yankee with an eye open to the 1nain chance. FAY AND ELDER. 'Three years together at the Clas- sical Institute, four in College and three in the rfheological, graduation day at last came. Ed., with mourn- ful count€nance says to Ton1, \oh Ton1, how can I leave thee!\ Tom answers tragically, \ don't Ed., don't; '' and leave him he did not. They may be seen any day, with Oxford caps and gowns, preaching I ·----·---- -------· the gospel to the unregenerate sin- ners on the island of Eustatius. Behold, a colored people's camp meeting ! A fine, portly looking gentleman is just closing what seen1s to have been a very affecting address. Some :tre shouting, amen ! while others are moaning and sobbing. It is very affecting, but your prophet can do nothing but laugh, for this Methodist exhorter is none other than Doc. Flower. I turn the page. In a brilliantly lighted ball-roon1 a score of dusky \varriors, with as many maidens are \tripping the light fantastic.\ 1'he bowie knife and tomahawk have given place to eye-glasses and dress-coats, through the influence of the host of the evening-our class-mate } .... rank Hall Wright, no\v big medicine man of the Choctaws. As he sits relating to a circle of admirers blood curdling adventures of his college days, I cannot help thinking that were a ·cer- tain lady of Dorp present she would say, '' ah, Mr. Wright, you haven't changed at all, have you? you are still just like· a harp struck by light- . \ n1ng. TKMPLE. After graduating, Charlie was en- gaged to fill the new chair of music at Union. He began reform at once. He cut the throat of the \bulldog on the bank,\ sat upon the \ barrel of rum \ and as for the \grand old seat of stone,\ he utterly demolished it. Devoting himself to the cultiva- tion of a true musical taste, he met with entire success, but still main- tains that he can never organize the

18o THE C'ONCORDIENS1S. equal of '82's famous Freshman glee club. VAN BUREN. Van is a physician in Indianapolis. He is regularly employed by all per- sons whose step-mother's or rich uncles are taken sick. He stipulates that if the patient lives he is to se- cure no pay. This fact is significant inasmuch as he is now a rich n1an. PRATT AND GREEN. Not long after commencement, '82, there was a double wedding in which the above-named participated. Green doubted the expediency of so much haste, but Pratt said, \ put not off till to-morrow what you can do to- day; our beavers and white kids are now ready, soon the style will change. Green answered, \ Pratt, you're n1y guardian angel\ and the thing was settled. T'hey are now at the head of the Saratoga bar, 1i ve in good style and drive blooded steeds. They know how to manage them too, having had experience with horses since they first entered college. GIUS\VOLD. He is a D. D. in Cleveland, Ohio. He draws imn1ense cro-vvds, but whether they con1e to hear, or to see the minister, is hard to say. He is quite a curiosity. Bernhardt bas been growing so thin during the last twenty years that a clothes line gives her an1ple shade for an afternoon protnL~nade, but Gris. is delicate com- pared with her. He is like too n1 any t.:ermons all length and no breadth. His friends .say h.:~ tnust ovcrcon1c I his antipathy for strong drink and take beer, or the bier will take him. DRO\VNE AND PHYFE. 1'hey are joint owners of the grand central theatre in Chicago. J oh nuy dotes on high tragedy but Walty is still passionately fond of a mins~re] show, Walty showed bis shrewd- ness by marrying rich and Johnny his by not marrying at all. When asked why he takes not to himse:lf one of the gentle sex he scornfully answers, \go to ! go to! in So ph o- m ore year in Union Co1lege I made up my mind that women are but base deceivers and twenty years' exper- ience has but confirmed n1y con vic- tio n.\ WALLER-JYriucipa! of Unioll Cia s- sical Institute. He is as yet unmarried but seven Dorpian school girls have in soletnn consultation decided that in all prob- ability he will be \ n1ashed '' on a certain preceJ:=,tress in the intermedi- ate before Christn1as, 190 I. 1-:Ie is fa1niliarly called \the philosopher,'~ and his favorite theme is Seneca. Falls, the heart of the world. He weighs two hundred and ten pounds,_ carrit s the same benignant smile as of old, but has reduced his pace from fifteen to ten steps per n1 in ute. T'bat n1ost magnificent specimen of n1oderu architecture, the new Cap- itol at Albany, is before me. Two n1iddle-aged men are in conversation. \You see, Rosy, thi~' building was cornpleted in May, I 896, but in] une of that year the en tire central part gave way. 'The result was· nineteen

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 181 Senators and forty-six Assen1blymen killed, sixty-five deadlocks in one session. There was a great outcry and the sentin1ent of the country \vas there is but one man capable of un- dertaking so great a work, and that man is Wm. Boardman Reed. ''But what are you doing Rosy?\ \vVell I'm silent partner with Sawyer in in the Cherry Valley Gazette; and between you and me I intend to make this a stepping-stone to the · Assembly. I'm also proprietor of a photograph gallery and a saw-mill. Then he gave one of his old-time little chuckles and passed a cigar case filled with choicest Havanas. Upon the opposite page is the nan1e, J os. E. Ransdell. He is United States Senator from Louisiana and a statesman of whom his Aln1a Mater n1ay well be proud. He is said to be the first Southern Den1ocrat in the Senate who hasn't denied that \ N iggers have souls.\ F AIRGRIEVE. Over the entrance to a fine build- ing in upper New York is this sign ; '·James l{. Fairgrieve, stabulum con- d.iditiun1\ {which in plain English means livery stable). ] iln puts on the style. Vanderbilt himself with his two hi llions of do1lars drives no finer team than ]in1's Livy and An- tigone. He has a passion for classic studs. One easy-going nag is called Alcestis, a beautiful shetland pony the Iliad, and an unn1anageable brute \vhich tries the patience of all, 'Thucy- dides. Jim often gets in a tight place, but his native audacity and a good pony always carry hin1 through In the sum1ner of '82, two strang- ers purchased a sheep farm near a quiet village in southern California. One was bearded, the other beard- less; one prosaic matter of fact, the other not so ; one called once a week at the village post for the mail of Luther Hargrave, the other each\day received letters directed to 1-Ierbert D. Hinds, and sent in return sweet- scented notes to Miss Arabella Simp- kins. T\venty years have passed. Luther is married and is considered the soundest man, financially and in- tellectually in his county. Herby, still unmarried, may be seen any pleasant day, with a harp in his hand and a sunflower in his buttonhole, wandering on his field, humming some well-\vorn love ditty. It is sad, but Herby would be cesthetic. YOUMANS. Rhett is owner and captain of a palatial Mississippi steamboat. He takes his meal~ in bed, reads in bed, is shaved in bed. On pleasant days his valet hoists him by means of an easy chair and a windlass to the deck, where he smokes or flirts with the ladies, who are always \vondering ·'if this is the day our lovely captain will appear on deck; for he is so nice, and so charn1ing and so polite, and isn't it singular he never has mar- ried.\ Rhett is happy and says it's a doggone easy life. COD WISE. In the fall of '8 1 Cod's class held an election. Among other officers to be elected was a poet. Now the . m'en of '82 having, every one, been

, I 182 THE CONCORDIENSIS. great tnashers, were particularly anx- ious, not only to have a poetical poet, (many class poets are not) but a witty poet and one capable of say- ing those little sentin1ental nothings · calculated to awaken tender feelings in the hearts of the maidens ot Sche- nectady and put every body in good humor with the clasp. There \vas much discussion as to the best man. Gris. -was poetical and sentimental but not witty; Flower was witty and sentimental but not poetical. Cod. had all three qualifications and was elected. The poem was a great suc- cess. Every one praised it until Cod's head was fairlv turned. Cod. .I said, ''I had expected to be United States Senator from Massachusetts ' but n()w I'll be a poet, a Tennyson, a Longfellow. As a result, at the head of the poetical departn1ent of a leading New York paper stands the name of George Alfred Paul Cod wise. MURRAY. All '82 men re1nember Eph's bill in the Union Co11ege Senate, entitled ''an act establishing an experin1ental farm in South Carolina :or the cultiv- . · ation of jute. The bill was killed, but Murray never once gave up the idea. He wrote and talked about it till he aroused interest in the matter: the farm was established and he ap- pointe-d n1anager. To day he is a wealthy· manufacturer of ladies' jute chignons. LEWIN. Poor Billy is gone. He was strick- en with a disease called purining. It was not the first attack. He had one while in college that lasted four years. But this was a severe one- eighteen atrocious puns one morn- ing before breakfast. The eighteenth one strangled hin1 and they laid him in the cold, cold ground and on his tombstone wrote simply, \Billy the punster, died on the eighteenth.\ Before n1e is a large, square room, literally packed with books and papers. The single occupant, his hair disheveled, his coat thrown back, seems lost in thought over a bo<)k which bears the title, \Practical Sol- I ution of the Orbit of the Solar Svs- ., ten1. by W. A. Waddell,\ A. B., C. E., L. M., X. Y., H. 0. As I look over the shelves I discover, among other books of which he is the author, '' \Vaddell's Unabridged Dictionary,\ ''Development of the Theory of Qaternions,\ \Cyclopedia of U niver- sal Know ledge,\ twenty-six volumes, and \ Intellectual Developn1ent of the \Vorld.\ As tb e clock strikes five, A. M., he ri~~es, puts on his Ox- ford cap and sallies forth, n1uttering as he goes, \ this assun1ption of a preceEsional and a mulationa1 influ- ence upon an interior mass of un- doubted fluidity, surrounded by het- erogc n eo us n1aterial, n1 u:-, t not, shall not go unchallenged. Upon th c last page are tb e lost lights of 'gz. T!:ere is that rascally Beattie and tbe ever blissful Couch and Evans, Jjph Wright, Gifford, Sylvester and all that gallant band who helped us fight our Freshman battles. Opposite their nan1es the spirit hand had \Vritten, \these un- worthy sons put their hand to the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ----------- ----- ----· - plow, but when those stern over- seers, called the Faculty, saw how much these workmen relied upon their horses, they forthwith order that the poor jaded beasts be turned into those pastures where the grass- hopper abideth. These ploughtnen, being deprived of their horses, soon grew aweary and turned back; and the place of their sojourning is un- known to this day. With a sigh the volun1e is closed, its clasp of pearl is fastened. The contents had not been as pleasant as its surroundings were beautiful; but thus, 'tis ever, stern hard truth. is covered over with the mantle of beauty which our fancy weaves. Turning to leave the beautiful grotto, it suddenly fades from sight and your prophet awakes to find the sun gone down and the evening shadows fast gathering. I-Iappily, what he bad seen remained firmly fixed in his mind and this prophecy is an exact copy of the golden vol- urne. Perchance, son1e may even doubt the existence of this wonderful cham- her, tna y consider this prophecy but the foolish fancy of a disordered n1ind. Be charitable, we pray you ; if you cannot believe as we do, you can at least pardon us for not wish- ing to dis1)el the charm \vhich hangs about our Alma Mater. Can you wonder that we dravv bright pictures? \Ve love her gray old walls, we love her legends of by-gone days, vve are proud of the n1any noble sons who do her honor. We would if we could make the proudest monuments which I our fancy erects in her honor, reali- ties. Yet she needs them not. Nobler monuments has she than these. Marble and granite may crumble to dust but the fond memories of our Ahna Mater which her children cherish shall live forever. =-======-------· ----- fiDD~ESS. SENIOR CLASS EXERCISES. BY J. R. F AIRGRIEVE. We are assembled here to-day un- der circumstances of peculiar inter- terest, for, \vhile there have been many occasions similar to the pres- ent, none has had the same valt1e to us. The casua1 observer may see only a band of youths emerging from the precincts of college walls to join the rushing crowds upon the world's highways. But we who are within the charmed circle of performers, see much beside. The scenes of four happy years rise up before us, with a rush of mingled emotions. Among the number of our class-mates we see the forms of those who have travelled with us part of the journey, but have fallen by the wayside. As .!Eneas and Achates went up tu view the bustling city of Carthage, envel- oped by the goddess-n1other, in an obscuring cloud, and beheld the pic- tures of struggles past and the won- ders of the growing town, so we stand wrapped in the veil of pensive senti- tnent, studying the pictures of pre-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. vious battles and scanning the rising temples of the world in which our lot is henceforth to be cast. Vve have reached that time around which cluster the richest me1nories of the past, and it is cheering to look back over the way we travelled and to revive the reminiscenses of those scenes which have afforded us so much delight. We are now to bid adieu to yon classic halls, hallowed by the most endearing associations, to part with professor and class-mates with whom we have spent many a delightful hour, to eqter upon the unknown vi scissitudes of the future, to be wafted onward in the voyage of life by the gentle winds of heaven or to meet the buffetings of the angry storm. Our feelings to-day are well expressed in those beautiful 11nes of the poet : \ How sweetly roll'd over the morning of l~fe, How free from vexation, from sorrow and strife, Kind nature presented rich scenes to our view, And every scene she presented was new, But soon was the morning of life clouded o'er, And its charming serenity lost ; Too soon were we forced to abandon the shore, And on ocean's rude billows be tossed.\ The four years just passed is but the gateway to the broad field that lies beyond. As we stand at the en- trance and look upJn the many paths and by-ways, we are amazed by their multiplicity and strongly realize the fact that we have reached a crisis in our lives. Now is the titne for us tu pause and consider our purposes, to decide in what way we can best serve ourselves, our fellow-men and our God. It is not my intention to sug- gest in what manner one should gov·p ern his life, nor how success can be attained. Each one must n1ake his own choice, must find his own path and must work out his ovvn destiny. Yet in our passing thoughts we do do not always give full consideration to many principles which are essen- tial to suc.cess. We have to make one choice in life and abide by its result, have one chief object in vievv and exert every energy to attain it. ...L\. void incon- stancy, \ unstable as water, thou shalt not succeed,\ is a proverb that has n1uch in it. A young man pos- sessing one of the brightest !lnc.l n1ost active of intellects but vvithout a fixed purpose, is like a ship which starts out fron1 its sheltered harbor \Vithout a rudder. For a while it rna y baffle dangers but is finally \vrecked upon hidden rocks or sunk in the trough of the sea. It is ·necessary to consider thor- oughly before n1aking a choice in life. One person is adapted to one profession or branch of business, an- other to another. Each is the best j~1dge of his own inclination and ca- pacity, and in this, the 1nost ·impor- tant determination of a n1an's life, he should repel the interference of others, disregard the promptings of ease and expediency and seek dilig- ently until he finds a career in which all his powers of n1ind and body, heart and soul, can find hannonious and ennobling exercise. Carlyle is said to have spent three days in prayer and fasting before he chose the course in ·which he achieved en- during fan1e. Each one pf us n1ust

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------------- ------- undergo his ''temptation in the wil- derness,\ and happy he who refuses to fa!l down and worship the devil in an)' of his forn1s. Thus it is in all human enterprise. Therefore, first find your vocation and avoid all en- mity, jealousy and unnecessary op- position toward. others as they are wholly destructive in their nature. Success will depend not on1 y on our aspirations but also upon our dil- igence and application. High an- ticipation, when rightly directed is in itself a power. It has an inspirit- ing, energizing, con1rnanding influ- ence, and is the unseen, yet potent force in hun1an effort. Nevertheless the goal of our ambition must. be striven for with detennination and enthusiasm. Nerved with the hope of victory we must run our race with the steady patience by which victory is decreed. In the matter of 1nonev-makin a- a J b single ren1ark may be made. Every one desires enough of this world's riches to make life enjoyable, and it is a con1mendable an1bition. With- out considering the unprincipled mo- nopolist, who by his rascality pours rnoney into his coffers through op- pression of the poDr laborer, we find in every day life, one steadily accu- mulating a comfortable fortune, an- other, who has equal chances, barely able to exist. The question natural- 1 y arises, Why is one man richer than another ? Because he is n1ore industrious, more persevering, more sagacious. It is the power of en- durance, the quickness of apprehen- sion, the calmness of judgn1ent, 1 which enable hin1 to seize the oppor- tunities that others lose. AU who would acq tlire a respectable C()rnpe- tency must especially observe habits of promptness and punctuality. Above all be independent. Have a disregard for that public opinion which often '\wil:holds the reward fron1 true merit and gives it to the undeserving. '[rue distinction can be gained in no department of human enterprise or toil without indepen- dence and earnestness and it has not a rapid growth. Rapid growth sel- dom brings with it lasting success. The one who brings hin1self conspic- uously before the public, may to-day receive the cheers of the populace and to-morrow their Jeers and hisses Men are wanted who can endure adversity and prosperity with equal fortitude. Who hold to the right unflinchingly, whether it meets with fortune's smile or frown. Men whose purity of purpose is so strongly marked upon their actions that they cannot be mistaken, and whose motto is right for the sake of right. We, the members of the class of '82, are now to separate. We have met for the last time as a united body. Our daily meetings in class- room and elsewhere are now things of the past. To-day we may look for the last time upon the familiar faces of our class-. mates. yet, these, \vith the many pleasant associations they carry with them, will ever be impressed upon our tnemory, and, ho\vever the allotments of Provi- dence may differ in regard to us, taere will remain one warm spot in our

186 THE CONCORDIENSIS hearts for past pleasures and bene- fits, and an ardent hope for the con- tinued success and prosperity of our beloved Aln1a Mater. GRADUATING STAGE, BY \V. A. WADDELL. As, at the beginning of a battle, those young knights who had won their spurs since the last great con- test were wont to salute, while ad- vancing to the front, the chieftains and all the assembled host, so we, who are now about to test our ·worth in that great struggle of right and wrong called life, salute you in whose presence we stand. We salute you, the President of our college, as its ruler and repre- sentative. Long rna y our loved Al- ma Mater, over which you preside, go on increasing in numbers, strength and standing. Long may the labors of those \vho work for its advance- ment be blessed, till every son of Old Union is proud that he is en- rolled among its Alumni. We salute you, the Trustees of this college, to whose wise care and fore- sight is due under Providence its safety and efficiency. We greet you not only as men high in the councils of our Aln1a Mate~·,. but yet more heartily because you who have stood as we stand now, college boys in the last scene of the college drama, know what hopes and aspirations fill our breasts to-day, and because, through all the successes of life, you have never forgotten the thoughts and feelings of your youth but have come back to see in us your· boyis'h hopes reappearing, and to catch from those to whom life is of the future, a thrill of the pleasure of anticipation. We welcon1 e you, our instructors to this the closing of the pleasant rela- tions of four years. Many successive classes have gone out from your care. By n1any have their greetings been spnken. But no one has voiced a welcon1e for a class more loyal in its love and respect for you. Day by day since first -vve 1net \Ve have been learning to know you better and to better appreciate your interest in us. You have ever taught us that success is not to be measured in fame but in work well done. We appreciate this, the best of your instruction, and whatever n1ay be our fate in ]Je· our best work will be due to your exer- tions, while no ren1issness on your part will be found to partially excuse failure. In the future n1a y our li vc-s. show the truth of this teaching an d. . the success of your pupils show that. your work is well done and that the. thanks and we.Jcon1e of to-day are; spoken from hearts feeling and meaning them. To some assembled here, who~ have sons or brothers about to enter the lists of life, words of greeting_ are scarce necessary. From our earliest years you have \Vatched our growth and developn1ent. At every advancing step you have aided and.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. counciled us. At every triumph your congratulations have been the most wished for because the most ' heartfelt. Well do you remen1ber the time four years ago when we left you to try the temptations of a col- lege life. Th:.:oughout the interven- ing years the thought of greeting you here has strengthened and restrained us, so that, though we are not the boys who left you then, the greeting of to-day, which, pure and unselfish as your love for us, goes straight from our hearts to yours, differs not frotn that -farewell in truth and affec- tion. I wish you to J otn us in greeting these others, to whom that parting was an introduction. Who, when we had left home behind, gave us a warrn welcome, 111 aking us feel that though in a strange land we were not friendless. We welcome you, our friends of this old city, to these exercises, knowing well that your hearts, which were so full of kind- ness to us in '7 8, yvill feel the depth and sincerity of the gratitude and greeting which our lips are inade- quate to express. To you and to all others, friends of childhood and of our later years, Alumni of this college vvbo see re- enacted the scenes of your own youth, strangers to us and to this city whon1 accident or curiosity has brought here to-day, we give hearty, earnest greeting. Classn1ates our preparation is over . .l\s v,re halt for a tnoment before en- tering the life struggle, let me wel- come you to this goal of your college course, which, when reached, seems only a milestone in the course of life. Many such miiestones we will find hereafter, and be welcon1ed to them by those near and dear to us. But at none will warmer, more unselfish friends receive us. Future triumphs will be seen and recognized by few ; but here, friends of childhood and youth, the councillors, instructors and Alumni of your Alma Mater, your classmates so long comrades but now about to leave you, salute you. In the name of our common memories of campus and class-room, private friendship and class loyalty, welcotne, thrice welcome here ; and In your name, greeting, heartfelt and earnest, to all within these walls. @LASS 0~AT.l1ION. SENIOR CLASS EXERCISES. HERBERT C. HINDS. SUBJECT :-SWEET ARE THE USES OF ADVERSITY, To expand the hidden forces of his nature and develop the even organic powers of his being, should be the governing principle of every man's life. Nature is wise in giving us aspirations and even wiser in giv- ing us the means of perfecting them. .Through then1 the soul reveals its better and brighter self. History teaches us that the means of final success are patience, prudence and perseverance. Adversity may be a hard c:;chool-mistress, but she is gen-

... THE CONCORDIENSIS. eraliy found the best. We learn far p-tore wisdom from·failure than from ·success. We often learn what will do~ by observing what will not· do. \fhe . very greatest things- great tho·ughts, inventions, discoveries-·-· have been nurtured in hardship, ·po.ndered over in sorrow and estab- ·Jished with dif-ficulty. ·rt is the men born in poverty, craclled in adversity . who have ascend~d the heights to which many have aspired and few have attained. They only who push . forward, descend into the valley of chun1iliation, and plod up the weary ,s}op~, · can.· ever expect to reach the s1,1mmit and enjoy the richly earned treasure.. Strength is sel- dom born in the lap ·of luxury, but more frequently out in the battles of life. ''The purest ore is produced from the hottest furnace and the brightest thunderbolt is elicited from the darkest stonn.\ Di~appointn1ent is a part of heav- en's plan. Every heart-beat signals the death of some earthly hope. Will the clouds of life fin~lly hi~e its sun or will they only give a beautiful sun- set to our lives? Is all to end in de- spair ? Will not good come from our very disappointments and be found even in the bitterness of adversity? Man-- is not altogether a creature of circumstances. Great n1inds are not subject to the fates, they rather rule them, they arc lords of the may, not slaves of the 111 ust. There is a povver of will within man, and a higher power above him, that direct him onward and upward, turning his obstacles into elements of strength. False is that philosophy which teaches that the brightness of life is dimmed by the· uses of adversity. Noble natures are strengthened by the trifling reverses of life. The humiliation of adversity ennobles them and prepares them for the tru .. est victories in the end. The ·weak and hesitating n1ay fall prostrate un- der the rod of disappointment, but -souls possessing exalted purposes . \vill, sooner or later vindicate their clain1s. \Sweet indeed, \are the uses of adversity.\ They reveal to us our powers and call forth our energies. Hindrances nurture hardihood of spirit. Obstacles, when surmounted, give one a higher position than could be attained on an unobstructed path. What is often accounted adversity is, when n1et with courage, only a bless- ing, inasn1uch as it calls into vigor- . ous action the hardier muscles and sinews of the inner man. If there be real worth in the character, like sweet herbs, it. will give forth its finest fragrance when pressed. \Crosses are the ladders that lead to heaven.\ It has often been truly said, that defeat tries the general more than victory. Washington lost far more battles than he ever won, yet he suc- ceeded in the end. Wellington's military genius was perfected by eu- counter with adversity which only served to nerve his resolution and develop his great qualities as a n1an and a general. Our literature teems with instances expository of our assertion. The

THE CONCORDIENSIS. -- ---------- ---- -- -- ~- -----\-- ----- -- --~--------- -- n1isfortune of our great poets has been the good fortune of literature. The birth-place of Don Quixotte and the Pilgrim's Progress was dungeon. Dryden wrote for bread, Butler for a grave and Cowper, the sandal-tree of sacred poetry, poured fourth his sweetest measures under the heaviest strokes of adversity. So with Dante, the wandering exile. \I..ied through .a sad variety of woe/' became a shining land-mark in the world's literature. As we read Paradise Lost we are led to ex- clairn, \ Sweet are the uses of ad- versity.\ What a precious monu- ment was this erected by Milton's thought. From the depths of the in- fernal regions it rises before you in a stupendous column, until piercing the clouds it enters the presence of God hitnself. Built of the melody of the sou1 it can never be destroyed until the soul be taken from its abode on earth and ushered into heaven. Homer and Milton said, \ Let there ·be light, and there was light.\ The ho1110 szt1n of Terence, though a slave, thrilled a Roman theatre, and 1\'asso too poor to purchase a candle, became one of the greatest lights of Italian literature. Such are great in spite of adversity. The genius of Shakespeare \vas christened by a satirical ballad, in the ceremony Sir Thomas Lucy, standing by as God- father. But for this he might have been a country attorney. N o-vv, as the idol of English literature, he . s1ng~, \ Sweet are the uses of adversity ; vVhich, like a toad, ugly and venomous, Vlfeats yet a precious jewel in her head.\ 1 The whole history of poetry is but the record of sufferinj'. It is said that the nightingale when she sings leans her breast against a thorn. So with the poet. The deeper his suf- fering, the sweeter his song. Pros- perity may teach hin1. how to rhyn1e, but never to sing. Nor· the poet alone. He, whoever he n1ay be, \ who has never known ill-fortune ' never knew himself or his own vir- tue.\ What then is success ? What are the uses of adversity? Do we yet understand their full meaning? Is Dives, in his robes of purple and fine linen, to be envied above the beggar at his gate ? Which will come off victorious? The world's frown may be heaven's smile. Sorrows here may be joy beyond. Our path-way may be over-cast with clouds, \ready to blacken on son:e saddened eye, and hurl its bolts on some defense- less head.\ Our souls may be sur- rounded by the tempests of life, and yet we may obtain a realization of our fond hopes and expectations, and find at last a peaceful rest in the presence of the Son of righteousness. rfhere are many smitten with afflic- tions, yet the uses of adversity shall be swGet to them. Heaven ·will ten- derly lift then1 to itself when earth rejects therr1, and will reward their toiling with a crown. The dark hours of the night will vanish. The darkest moments of their lives will only reveal unknown stars in the galaxy of their virtues. \ Old Union,\ June 24, I 882 .

190 THE COl~CORDIENSlS. r£J~6i~-~?i~~~~~ ------------------ -- -· -· -- ----- -- ----- narrow course, and, like the deified Nile, overflowed its banks. giving to the \vorld, when the great flood passed on, those magnificent memo- ------------ sENlo~ cLAss ~?5ERcrs~:__ _______ ·- rials to Egypt's power and glory, S. H. WATKINS. We look at man in his infancy, in the cradle of civilization, and find him swayed by his passions and feel- ings. As yet the great depths of knowledge has not been sounded. Thought ruled neither individuals nor society, sentin1ent was sovereign. Through the influence of the noble sentiment for remen1bering the past, people of all races and times have erected memorials. It is to these that \Ve owe much of our knowl- edge of tirnes that otherwise n1 ust have ren1ained a perfect blank to men forever. That the human intellect possesse5 the faculty of memory does not suf- fice ; son1ething visible and tangible is sought-something that may serve as a reminder, a n1onu1nent for years to come. Back, back along the way of ever- advancing civilization are set up the great land-marks of the nations. Some brilliant victory won ; some memorable life lost ; some telling event for public or private ·weal, each has its memorial. India honored her deities and dead with n1onun1ents that have outlasted the rise and fall of nations and with- stood the destruction of time and the elements. In Egypt the grand and growing strean1 of wisdom and power left its which have been the wonder and study of all the people. 'fhey did, indeed, build for ti1ne and their works have shown to succeeding ages the greatness and superiority of their learning. Step into the full light of Grecian civilization fro1n the darkness and shadow of forn1er tin1es. Linger but a n1oment within that land of grace and beauty, subject to all the influ- ences of its perfected art. Can ·we wonder that there vve :find this senti- ment in man's nature fully devel- oped? Surrounded by the perfect handiwork of God and man, the n1emorial sentirnent bec-:1me one of the distinguishing characteristics of the Greeks. Everything receives its trophy. Cross into Italy. Triun1phal arche~ and colurnns, tablets and tombs tell of the same sentin1cnt alive in that ·world-conquering empire. In this rgth century we visit the In1peria1 City and stand face to face with those lasting marks of grandeur. In im- agination we raise tbe fallen columns, fill in the gaps made by the devasta- tions of time and man, and picture all the glory of that greatest of past civilizations. 'fhose monuments have served their purpose. Change of government, change of society, tin1es and events that have thoroughly revolutionized the world, • 1-tave in no \vise affected this one

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 191 sentiment com1non to the human I race. The vista of the ages presents a wonderful picture \vhich without the great n1onumentalland-·marks would be as imperfect as a master-piece when tnerel y outlined. This age is called \ matter of fact.\ The progress of science shows the disposition of all people to get at facts ; it shows further an advance in knowleclge, a.n increased power in n1an of thought and research. The last century has been marked J by its gifts to all branches of science and in the general in1provement. An1erica has been second to no coun- try. Yet withal, we as a people, have not lost that ennobling sentiment bequeathed to us by former ages. Our gathering here to-day is a speak- ing proof of this. 1'here is in truth an end to all th'ngs. Time brought us together as a body of students to work toward common ends and time has at length decreed that our c1ass relations be broken-broken in fact but not in n1emory. After four years of work and pleasure together, ha:v- ing shared co1nmon victories and en- dured common losses, we have met to plant this living memorial of the Class of'82. Our college life is over, a time to which we will look back as to the most pleasant period of our lives. We have here had such op- portunities as will never come to us again, a fact which, as it grows upon us frorn year to year, must increase our love for our Abna iJ;fater. In all oLir intercourse as students I and class-mates the closest friendship has existed. May that friendship never be broken, but be rather strengthened by the planting of our Class Ivy,, the token in itself of friendship. We have here a class metnorial that will keep pace with the years in its growth. Time will but add strength and beauty that it may bet- ter serve to remind us when we all, I trust, meet here again, of the pleas- ant incidents in the chapter of our history now closed. Like as we plant here the ivy of ,memory of our class, let us plant in our hearts the ivy of love for '·' Old Union.\ I)ONOf\IAD. ------------ I. \ A story I'm to tell you A hout the HlS and outs Of our four years at college, Their joys and hopes and doubts.\ 2. And I will quote the poets as they enter this mind of mine,. And I will make them stand out while I appear to shine; For while I may be an original of poetry thal's not so, l-Ienee I of former poetry will ~rop and reap and mow. 3· I will put a lyric couplet against a moral ode, Or a lampoon against a sonnet, as I am m the mode, Hexameter, pentameter, elegy or mi.me, .\ny1vay or anything so 1 can get a rhyme.

192 THE CONCORDIENSlS. 4· In the hamlets at the bottom of the tedious hill of knowledge, There are many eager youths prepared to enter college ; Some have entered many students, some have en- tered few, But none.l1ave entered a better class than :that of '82. 5· Some have gone to Harvard, some have gone to Yale, . Some have gone to \Villiams, that college of the vale, Some have gone to Amherst, other to Cornell, But\ Union\ is the best, as its graduates can tell. 6. Our glorious Old Union! our memory recalls Its trees, its fields, its woods, its flowers, its paths, its ponds, its halls, Its \ grand old seat of stone,\ and the brook that wanders free, \ 'Vhere'er we roan1, oh dear old home, our thoughts will turn to thee,\ ?· We may stir the smouldering embers on far Aus- tralia's shore, Or wander by the ocean and hem· its breakers roar; In Europe, Asia, Africa wherever we may· dwell, \Fond thoughts and sighs will often rise at mem- ory's magic spell.\ 8. ~Te'Il think as we look back upon our boyhood's day (As now, being men, we've got heyund our May) Of those dear olcl times when we ne'er once did pme For our admirable teachers in Jays of \ auld lang syne.\ 9· \T'vT e'll think of all our frolics, of all our glee and fun, We'll think of all the parties, vve'll think of many a sun That has set ami risen again while on \light fan- tastic toe \ We've whirled the time to music, so thrilling, soft and slow. IO. Then there was a bracing evenmg, when gomg forth to skate, We gazed on twinkling stars-those stars so filled with fate. Now we gently glide along, then suddenly hear a sigh And see the happy heart in the reflected light of tbe eye II. \Ve will think of happier hours when beneath the silver moun We have floated down the nver m the flo,very month of June; \ \vV e've wandered East, we've wandered West, through many a \Veary way,- But never, never can forget the dreams of life's young day.\ I 2. And as in these far off places my eyes go to and fro, vVhen thinking of these times in the . beautiful evening's glow, I will say, as I see the muonlight smiling over me, Do you shine as brightly as ever on the \fair\ of Schenectady. I 3· Do you shine as you always used to on that ex- quisite old river ?- The beautiful, lovely Muha 'v\ k, with its waves like unto silvcr,- Its dozens of little islands, its weepmg willows hanging o'er Those delightful little spots, as we rowed along the shore ?

THE CONCORDIENSIS. '193 14. We'll think of this old town, its buildings and its hills, Its people and its depot, 1ts dear old cider mills, We'll think of our professors, their saying and their actions, Of each one's oddities, his faults and his attrac- tions. IS. And frrst of all in tracing our mind's most natural l>ent, Our thoughts will turn with pleasure to our honored President 'Vho sternly checks our rushes by appeanng on the scene, And routing the frightened Freshmen from. off the college green. r6. His efforts for the college we cannot but admire, lie travds E::t:;t, he travels \!Vest with zeal that does not tire ; He gathers checks and moneys and handsome buildings rise As witness that his purposes are great anrt good and wise. I 7· Then there's our dear old ''Jack \ of the class of '35, Who teaches you physics and which you just sur- VIve, Wbo makes his little puns as you slowly plod along, And whom we teased because we pleased, but boys 'twas very wro!1g. I 8. Many a year has showered its frosts upon his hon- ored head, But still he's hale and hearty as the day that he was wed, Although he counts many years as the Julian cal- ' endar gues, !:;till he's young in heart and feeling, as everybody knows. And as we've looked upon him with his quick and lively walk, And as we've heard in the class-room his wise and learned ta1k, We'll always recollect hinl. with a sweetly reverend mind, Thinking how he trod life's pathway, so good and true and kind. 20. We'll think of gruff, but kind \Whitey the . teacher of our Greek, Of how he used to look on us, we were quickly very meek. We will know how he sits on Freshmen, 'cause he used to sit on us When we came on in a body with such a roar and fuss. 21. He will look on you, Freshie, with his eye so cold and grim, While you shiver in a .corner with your eye so hot and dim, But he will smile and lighteu up if he sees you ar.e well-meant, As he sends you to your seat with a \Thank-you that's sufficient.\ 22. Then there's Professor Staley, of the Faculty, the Dean, Outspoken, quick, abrupt and at a joke right keen, He has done a deal of work for the profit of the college In its engineering, architecture and general system of knowledge. 23. We'll think of dear old \Webb so loved and lank and tall, Who taught us natural history and goodness knows what all ; Who talked on politics, religion, things in general And gathered animalcules from Maine way off to Senegal.

194 THE CONCORDIENSJS. He is. the one to whom we went In all our woes and troubles, And when he looked them over they would disap- pear like bubbles ; \Vhen we were in a tough place he'd lend a bet-p- ing hand And safely guide us over until we stood on Janel. There is Professor Perkins, of the faculty the wit, The students will go in his room and sit, and sit, and sit, While he'll stand behind his desk, one foot behind the other, Tell the same old Jokes and stories, as they smile at one another. 26. He teaches to us Chemistry of which he has the monopoly, Also a branch of Philosophy-Political Economy; The former teaches us about the composition of matter, A proper division of this thing is taught us by the latter. 27. We can imagme Price with his hair so dark and long, Who is at Mathematics so learned and clear and strong, \Vho really is as· gay and merry as a lark, But don't be too down-hearted, he will make yon toe the mark. 28. There is Professor Alick, who gives a course in English, Rhetoric or Logic, whichever you distinguish ; He's clergyman, philanthropist and ~cholar, all combined,- And ever wishes to promote the welfare of man- kind. O;er Union's Senate be presides with purpose wise and good; He places bills bdore us which are for the countty food. But he has one sorry fault, \V ben you are in his clutch And know your lesson, he makes you vain because be smiles too much. · 30. At present Mr. Ashmore has the Latin classes, He is very good, but easy, and everybody passes; We've had so many teachers,. their names we can- . not tell, But we've never had another who equalled Vr. Lowell. 31. He has studied on the ~lassies and on .English all his life, He has pondered, thought and written, together with his w1fe Until there's nothing more of which the sails can be unfurled, Now he's writing books \vhich are read by all the world. 32. There was Mr. L'Amllreau, of the college the spe- cial agent, \Vho gave out subjects for essays which really were a pageant ; Who taught us to be graceful and easy on the stage, To tune our voices to pathos, wit, orat• 1ry, rage. 33~ Then there is Mr. Lawrence who discourses ttpon history, French and English, Arabs, Turks and every sort of mystery. ~ Aad our present master of dnll, the httle Major Mac, Who is very small but fiery, With his soldiers at his back. v A l 1 1 \ ' j ]

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 195 34· We remember Tutor Anable, class of '81, A Soph when we were Freshmen and always full of fun ; A hterary athlete-his powers are very good- To their cost the Freshmen know it in their Alge- braic food. 35· There's that fine man, Vandy, the keeper .of the gym, Who teaches calisthenics, which we go at with a VII11. ; Who puts your hair on end and makes your blood to freeze, As he whizzes through the air on his wonderful trapeze. There are four other teachers, of whom I've lost the run, ProfessorsCoppee, Wells, Hollis, and the treasurer Pierson; In languages, drawing, botany, literature, they shine- \ Their genius cannot Lc enhanced by any words of mine.\ 37· There is one other person of whom I've not spoken yet, Always a word of welcome whene'er w1th him we met; Who'~ not a profes.:ior, tutor or preceptor of any kind, And yet in his life to the students 1s all of these combined. He's had for many years to superintend all trades, He fixes walks and windows when the students make their raids, Ohe'5i always rearly to do it and his name will be eternal Amongst the college students, our own beloved CC;Jlonel. 39· There is one other gentleman of whom I ought to speak, Without whom, indeed, this college would be weak-· Our honored Mr. Jenkins, who gathers in the cash, And returns for it reports which cut a mighty dash. 40. Now that we're in the world how are we going to act? WiH we be men of ability, of judgment,. sense and tact? Men truly great and wise, and who have heaped our treasure By fair and honest means, truly measure for meas- ure? 41. '82 will ne'er have a son whose deeds will cause a blush, But everyone'll be noble and true, in whom the world will trust ; So pardon me, 0 prophet, for taking that place of thine And may we remember our motto : Evspy cza 1/JV~1lV 7tAa6oEl. €DIJ110~IAu. AT 8 o'clock in the evening, June 26th, the First Reformed church was filled with an appreciative audi- ence which had assembled to listen to the contestants on the Junior and Sophomore stage. The music was furnished by Austin's orchestra, and every one consequently looked for a great treat ; but many expressions of disappointn1ent were heard. The band, shut off in the consistory room

196 THE CONCORDIENSIS -- ·-- ---- -- -------- could not be heard with sufficient clearness, and the playing was not what was expected of so well knovvn a con1pany. The under-classmen had followed the exarnple of the Seniors in re- questing that no flowers should be sent ; and although the absence of these tokens detracted from the beauty and liveliness of the scene, yet the unusual quiet and attention made up for that deficiency. The Sophs spoke first ; and Dow Beekman, of Middleburg, opened with an oration on \T'hree Repre- sentative Americans.\ His three were Clay, Webster and Sun1ner. His cotnposition was good and his delivery very fair. The n1ost marked defects were a ·weakness of voice which rendered him rather indistinct at tirnes, and the too free use of his head and face. We think he well deserved the second prize which was awarded hin1, although dissatisfaction was expressed by some that it was not conferred on Mr. Robt. R. Ben- edict of Canandaigua, the next speak- er. The latter's subject was '' Give the Chinese a chance,\ and he treat- ed it with great power. His faults consisted in a few in1perfections in the delivery, although this \vas n1arked by much grace and elegance. Mr. Benedict possesses a fine voice for an orator, but did not bring it out sufficiently. He did not show quite enough spirit for his theme and his voice therefore frequently sani< too low. His manner at times was rather affected and he also moved his face too tnuch. --- --- -- - --- --··· -- -- .. ~-- Mr. Corn€1ius E. Franklin, of Al- bany, fairly won his first prize by one of the ablest efforts of tbe even- ing. His speech on \Modern Mar- tyrs\ was excellently composed, and contained some very eloquent pas- sages, as 1or instance where he spoke of Lincoln and Garfield. His voice was strong and clear, and his n1odu- lation and emphasis very good, in- deed. flis carriage was rather awk- ward on first coming upon the stage, and this was his only bad defect. The last of the Sophomore speak- ers, Mr. Jas. G. Green, of Clyde, spoke on '' The Fate of Liberty.\ Mr. Green handle~ so trite a subject in too old-fashioned a manner to awaken much interest, and his voice was too low for good hearing. The speech wanted fire and he was obliged to keep a monotonous tone throughout. His con1position was very good. Mr. Dan. M. Countern1ine, of Schenettad.:y, led for the Juniors on \Hope.\ This was a very good es- say, but contained little of the fire of oratory, and was too tame and slow throughout. Mr. Richard W. Dent, of Schenec- tady, had a re1narkably \Veil-written ·oration on ''Our Country Free,\ but like several others, it was too trite a theme to arouse any great enthusi- asn1 in speaker or audience, and thus lacked spirit. Mr. Dent's enuncia- tion was excellent. l-Ie received the second prize. Mr. A. T. C. Han1lin, of Winona, Minn., spoke on ''Irish Rebellions,\ qnd made, ·what we regarded, the a c f a a 1 ( r . J

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 197 ablest effort of the evening. His composition was exceedingly power- ful, he displayed great oratorical fire and force without ranting, his enunci- ation was clear, his emphasis excel- lent, and his manner graceful. We did not at all agree ·with his senti- n1ents and think these must have acted to his prejudice ·with the judges, for in l~O other way can we explain his not getting even the sec- ond prize. Mr. John R. Harding, of Wash- ingt0n, N. C., dealt with \The Col- onization of the Colored People in Siberia\ and treated the subject with much spirit, in fact he showed too much ; for he was very forcible at some unimportant periods, and ranted at most of his stn,ng points. · His voice was clear and strong; and altogether his fiery utterance and spirited manner formed a plea~ing contrast to the tameness of n1any of the others. He received the first Junior prize. The · last Junior orator was Mr. vVilliatn 0. Lewis, of Delhi. His speech was on the d Slander of Pub- lic Men.\ Mr. Lewis 'Spoke too low for us to catch many of his words, and the whole speech was too slow, tame and indistinct! y enunciated to attract attention. Mr. Lewis, bow- ever, is a good writer and we doubt not his co·mposition was very fine. DAMOCLES. IN the natural order of things it no\V comes our turn to lay down the editorial pen and hand over the CoN- CORDIENSJS to our successors, but before doing so we desire to thank the Faculty, the students, our sub- scribers and all others wbo have in any way aided the CoNCORDJENSIS during the past year. We have strived to rnake the CONCORDIENSIS }vhat we consider it should be, not a I paper filled ~with abstract meta ph ys- ical discussions, b·ut a college news- paper. We have had some success, financially our success is due to the business manage1nent of Mr. Bridge. who has given much tin1e and labor to the paper. With this short fare- well we hand the CONCORDIENSIS, to- gether \Nith our blessing, to our suc- cessors, whom we should be glad to name, but as they are not all elected this is irnpossi bl e. @OMMENGEMENJil. --. -------------.- ------- The comn1encement week this year was favored by a pleasant, n1ild temperature, vvh ile the attendance has never been better. rfhe exercises took place on Wed- nesday at r o A. lVI. in the First Re- formed church. That beautiful edi- fice, as usual to such occasions, was thronged by an audience from far and near, who felt a lively interest in the proceedings. The procession of president, faculty, · trustees and students marched in the church to the music of Austin's military band -the me1nbers of whirh were in full uniform.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. On the platform 'vere seated Pres- ident Potter, in his robes of office, the faculty and trustees of the col- Iege, and several guests of schol- astic and other eminence. The proceedings opened with ,in- troductory music by the band, \vhich was stationed in the chapel of the church just adjoining, and diversified the exercises by other odes occasion- ally given, and invariably to excel- lent effect. The I 17th Psalm, to the tune of \Old Hundred,\ was sung by the assembly standing. Prayer was then offered by Rev. Dr. Wortman, of Fort Plain, who asked the divine blessing upon the officers of the college and the gradu- ating class. He closed with repeat- ing the Lord's prayer, in which n1any joined. President Potter, in respective or- der as printed on the progran1n1e, announced as follow~-;: Salutatory by William A. Waddell, of White Lake. John M. Adair, of Ox Bow-'·Rel- ations of Great Men to Society.\ Luther R. Hargrave, Madrid- \ The Land Ouestion in Ireland.\ ~ Herbert C. Hinds, East Green- wich-\ The Historic Sense.\ Ephraim C. Murray, Edisto Island, S.C., \Robert E. Lee.\ Willian1 J. Pollard. Seneca Falls -\The rise of Islam.\ Joseph E. Ransdell, A1 ex and ria, La-'' 'fhe new South.\ Schuren1an H. Watkins, New York city-\ Our Country's Claims upon her Scholars.\ Edward C. Whitmeyer, Schenec- tady-· ''The Principles of the Left Centre.\ Arthur S. Wright, Worcester- \ The Mormon Problem.\ This closed the orations at I 2 M. ; many of them having been received with liberal applause from the audi- ence. The following are the essayists of the class : Albert E. Carmichael, South Sand- Jake. IF John G. Peoli, Havana, Cuba. G·. Alfred Codwise, Grantville, Mass. Walter H. Phyfe, Delhi. Louis A. Coffeen, Potsdam. Henry R. Pierson, Jr., Albany. John J. Drowne, Jr., Plattsburgn. Albert Pratt, fi\\\'ort Ed\vard. Thomas D. Elder, Patersonville. William B. H.eed, Scotch Plains, N. ]. J an1es R. Fairgrieve, Sch en ectad y., Charles Ten1ple, Schenectady. Charles E. Fay, Northampton. Edward Thon1son, Jr., Johns- burgh. Davidson S: Flower, Alexandria, La. Wilson H. Van Buren, Mount Vision. Edmund E. Ford, Schenectady. Frederick D. VanWagenen, Ful- ton. Elijah W. Greene, New Lebanon. Elmer B. Waller, Seneca I-i\alls. Sheldon Griswold, Delhi. Edward F. Walsh, Schenectady. William M. Lewin, Upper Marl~ boro, Md. b1 s . JC fc . 1C v I- F li v I t ]

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 199 --------- Bayard Whitehorne, Schenectady. Alfred A. McMurray, Lansing- burgh. Frank H. Wright, Boggy Depot, Ind. Ter. Edmund R. Youn1ans, Columbia, s. c. 1'he Chancellor's address was then given by the Rt. Rev. Bishop I_..ittle- j oh n, of Brooklyn. The conferring of degrees then followed, and in the order named : LL.:D.-Chester A. ~rthur, pres- ident of the United States; Rev. Wm. A. V. V. Mabon, D.D., profes- sor of theology in the New Bruns- wick, N. J., serr1inary of the Re- formed church of America. D.D.-Revs. John R. Paxton, Henry ·G. Sitterlee, New York city; Rev. J. D. Han1mond. Ph. D.--Lewis Balch, M. D., Wil- lis G. Tucker, M. D., Albert Vande- veer, l\1. D., Samuel B. Ward, M. D., all of .Albany. A. M.-R.ev. William H. Hughes, Schenectady. A.B.-Jarvis L. Carter, New York. THE PRIZES. ~arner prize, for highest standing and best moral deportment-Sch ure- man H. Watkins, New York city. Ingham essay prize-Charles Tem- ple, Schenectady; honorable men- tion, J pseph E. l{ansdell, Alexan- dria, La. Oratorical prizes-Junior : 1st, John R. Harding; 2d, Richard W. Dent. Sophomores: 1st, Cornelius t\ranklin ; zd,. Dow Beekman. ~Volfe prizes in history-G. A. P. Codwise, Jr., highest grade; Elijah \V. Greene, best essay. Allen essay Prizes- Ist, ·Chas. Ten1ple; zd, Jan1es R. Fairgrieve ; 3d, Wilson H. Van Buren. Blatchford oratorical medals- I st, Joseph E. Ransd£.11; zd, Edward C. Whittnever. ~· The exercises closed with the sing- ing by the class and audience stand- ing, \The song to Old Union : \ Let the Grecian dream of his sacred stream and sing of the brave adorning That Phcebus weaves from his l;urel-leaves at the gulden gates of morning ; Bu.t the brouk tl1atbounds through Union's grounds gleams bnght as the Delphic \\ atcr, And a prize as fan· as a god may wear is a dip from our Alma Mater. C!z.oru::-Then. he1<e's to thee, the Ln·ave and free, Old Union smiling o'er us ; I I And foT n'lany a day, as thy walls grow graJ, i\1ay they ring with thy children's chorus. /Again death has entered into our n1idst, this tin1e depriving the grad- uating class of one of its members. On the afternoon of June 23, Albert E. Carmichael, of the Senior class and Geo. W. Sh er~ood, of the Junior class, decided to take a swim in the Mohawk. Neither were expert swirn- rners and it is supposed that Car- michael was seized with a cramp, for he sank, rose to the surface and sauk again, before his friend, who did all in his power to reach him, was able

I 200 THE CONCORDIENSIS. to do so. The deceased was twenty- two years of age and has since been graduated with his class. · He had been announced as one of the speak- ers before the Adelphic literary so- ciety for tbe very evening of his death-the exercises to be held in thP: col!ege chapel. His sudden and tragic death cast a gloom over the class and the closing exercises of the college. A. E. Carmichael was the third in point of age of five brotr, ers. The family home is at Sandlake, a short distance north .of Troy, but he bad resided for the· past three years with his brotht:r, B. F. Carn1ichael, the dentist, while receiving his col- legiate instruction. He was a can- didate for the degree of A. B. and also of C. E. was a n1ember of the J)elta Upsilon Fraternity and the A de lp hie literary society. (I~y a vote of the Senior class, all class festivities including the class-day exercises and Commencement ball were omitted as a mark of respect to one who was universally loved and respected. 'rhe funeral services were held ·in the fi\\'irst Reformed church at IO o'clock on lVlonday, the 26th, at which tirne the chapel was filled to overflowing. 'fhe Senior members of the l)elta Upsilon Fraternity acted as pall- bearers. 'I'he Senior class ·attended the funeral in a body. Most of the other students of the college ·were also present, as well as many n1en1- bers of the faculty. The funeral ser- vices were conducted by President Potte1: and Rev. Prof. Lawrence; each of whom read appropriate selec- tions of scripture. Dr. Potter spoke at some length of the lessons con- veyed of the shortness of life, and of tb e blissful hopes of irnn1ortalit;y. Closing prayers for the dead were made by Prof. Lavvrence. An op- portunity of viewing the remains was then given. Three choice floral tributes rested on the lid of the casket, which latter was suitably in- scribed by a silver plate containing the name and age of the deceased. 1'he remains were retnoved to tbc • depot, and from thence taken to Sandlake, Rensselaer county, for in- terment. The coroner's inquest was held Monday afternoon at which tirr1e the following verdict was ren- dered : 1\\'hat the said Albert E. Car- n1ichael came to his death by acci- dental drowning in the Mohawk river, near Sanders Island, while bathing, on the 23d day of June, I 882. A rnt:morial service was held in the I st Reforn1e-d church the after- noon of June 27, in place of the reg- ular class-day exercises. 1\\'he ser- vice was well attended. Professor Staley presided. A dirge by Aus- tin's band was given. Before tbc close of the service the san1e ·band played with good effect the hymn \ Nearer my God to Thee.\ An opening prayer was made by the l{ev. Mr. Hoyt, of Ballston Centre. Professor Coppee then read- a brief ·Jetter from President Potter, stating- his inability to be present owing to other duties and his regret for the fact. ....'-\n address of twenty n1inutes' duration was then made by Rev. Wm. Elliot Griffis, pastor pf the church, \vhich did full justice .to the w c:: C< A p 11 f1 ti f( e tl li f< 1:: l1 c f 1 f l t

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 201 . f·olemn occasion. Sets of resolutions were pre sen ted, which are as follows.: At a meeting of the class of '82, called to take appropriate action con- cerning the death of our classtnate Albert E. Carmichael, the following preamble and resolutions were una- nimously ado~ted: WHEREAS, Death, sudden and ter- rible, has, upon the eve of gradua- tion, ren1oved from us one whom four years of intimate association has endeared to us, therefore be it Resolved, That we deeply n1ourn the loss of one who was ever a dil- ligent student, a firm friend and a faithful member of the class. Resolved, That all class festivities be omitted and· that we wear the usual badge of n1ourning for thirty days. Resolved, That we tender to the friends of our departed brother our. heartfelt sympathies. And be it further Resol-ved, That these resolutions he published and copies be sent to the family. F. D. VANWAGENEN, A. s. WRIGHT, H. c. HINDS, S. M. Griswold. A. A. MclViuRRAY, Cottft11t itt ee. Union College, June 24, I 882. i\t a special meeting of the Delta Upsilon society, held at their rooms Saturday, June 24, the following pre-· amble and resolutions were adopted: \tVHEREAS, It has seemed good to an all-wise Providence that the angel of death should again visit us bring- ing a sun1n1ons, startling in its abruptness, appalling in its season. WHEREAS, It is but proper that we, in the grief and sorrow felt by us as ind i \Tiduals, should as a body render testimonials, h urn ble though it n1ay be, to the worth and charac- ter of our brother, therefore have we Resolved, That in the death of Al- bert E. Carmichael, we recognize the loss of a true friend, bound to us by the n1any ties of a college career so nearly completed, endeared to us by lofty traits of character, generous im- pulses and the soundest principles; and further, have we Resolved, That we extend our sin- cere sympathies to the relatives of our late brother in their sudden and t.errible affliction, and also be it Resolved, That we assume appro- priate symbols of mourning for 30 days, that \Ve attend the funeral in a body, that these resolutions be pub- lished and that copies be sent to the family of the deceased. R. LANDON, J. R. F AIRGRIEVE, } .... D. VANWAGENEN. Co1n1nittee. UNION CoLLEGE, June 24, '82. Resolutions adopted by the Adel- phic Literary Society : WHEREAS, Upon the eve of the Commencement exercises of our so- ciety, under circurnstances peculiarly sad, death has taken our brother and

202 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Valedictorian, Albert E. Carmichael, be it Resolved, That in him we lose one whose strict attention to duty, court- eous demeanor and kindly disposi- tioi1 we shall ever remember. }i'eeling .that the death of one so loved by college associates must bring deepest grief to the hearts of his relatives, we tender them our earnest sympathy; and be it further Resolved, That copies of the above be sent to his family, his colleg;e fraternity and the press. A. S. WRIGHT, J. M. ADAIR, w. A. wADDELL. Co1nmz'ttce.} fi fl1H uEJiti G. THE WESTERN TRIP. On May 18th Union met Cornell on her own grounds. About 300 people were present. Our men won the toss and sent the home team to bat. The ground was very rough and was the cause of many errors. Victory seemed within our grasps and it was only by a costly error that the Cornellians carried the day. The following is the score : Woodward, 2d b, Anderso;.1, lf., Hall, cf.y Halderman, ss., Chase, 1st b., CORNELL. R. B.H. T.B. P.O. A. E. 0 I I 3 4 3 0 0 0 2 I I 2 0 0 3 I I o I I 2 I 0 2 0 0 8 0 0 Hun1phdes, c., Avery, p., Cole, 3d b., Oline,. rf., Total, McElwain,. cf., M.cCauley, c., Naylon, Ist h., Anable, p., Flower, rf., .Fairgrieve, lf., McMurray, ss., Stalilton, 3d b., Fon1, 2cl b., Tutal, 5 3 3 5 I 0 I 2 3 2 3 2 I 2 2 i 4 2 o o 0 I 0 I II 9 IO 27 15 IO UNION. R. B.H. T.B. P.O. A. E. 0 I I I 0 0 I 2 2 8 3 2 I 2 2 6 0 I 2 1 2 3 IO I 2 2 2 0 0 0 2 I I I 0 I I I I 2 2 2 0 I I 2 0 2 I I I 4 I 0 10 I2 I3 27 16 9 I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Innings, Cornell, Union~ I 2 2 0 I 0 2 o 3-ll 0 4 0 0 2 2 o I o--Io On the following day Union played Hobart, at Geneva. This proved our first .victory and Hobart received an overwhelming defeat. As Ho- bart had defeated Cornell thirteen consecutive times, the Hobart men expected no difficulty in laying the Union men out. Following i~ the score: McElwain, cf., McCauley, c., Naylon, Ist b., Anable, p., Fairgrieve, If., Jarvis. rf., 11c.Murray, ss., ~tanton, 3d b., Ford, 2d b., Total, UNION. R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. I o 0 o o o I I I · 9 2 I I I I 9 0 I o 0 0 I 10 ~ I 0 0 3 0 ·0 0 0 0 I 0 0 I (I 0 0 2 () I 2 2 2 I 0 I I I 2 I I 7 5 5 27 I6 3

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 203 HOBART. R. lB. T.B. P.O. A. E. Ayrault, 2d b., I 0 0 2 ·0 0 Bo\'\man, ss., 0 0 0 2 0 3 Prince, 1st b., () I I 7 ·0 3 E. P. Mullett, p., 0 I I 2 5 0 Tuule, c., 0 0 0 6 0 4 Van Rensselaer, 3d b., 0 0 0 I 3 I Mmray, lf., 0 I I I I 2 Hinsdale, cf., 0 0 0 3 I 0 J. B. Mullett, rf., 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total, I 3 ,., 24 IO 13 .) --------------- --- Dy innings, I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Union, . o o 1 I o I 3 I *-7 IIol ·arl, o o o o o I o o o- I Time of game-r hour 45 minutes. NOTES. -Stanton led at the bat, making two base hits at critical moments. -- The Hobarts were out~batted, out-fielded and out-played at every point. Why Union did not beat Cornell is an enigma to Hobart. -In the seventh inning Hobart had three men on bases and no men out. McCauley purposely dropped the 3d strike, touched the home plate, threw a man out at third, third baseman threw the ball to first, putting out the striker and conlplet- ing the triplet. In spite of the hard work of the two preceeding days, Union had the temeri\:y to play the Syracuse Stars. The Stars contain four professional players and the efforts of Union were to keep down the score. At the end of the game it was found that they ~1ad kept the Stars down one run too n1uch. Following is the score: UNION COLLEGE. R. B.H. T.B. P.O. A. E. McElwain, c.f., I I I I 0 0 McCauley, c., I 2 3 8 5 2 Naylon, 1st b., J I I 12 0 2 Anable, p., I 2 2 1 I2 2 Fairgrieve, If .. , 0 I :[ 2 0 0 Jarvis, rf. 0 0 0 0 0 0 :IYlcMurray, ss. I I I 0 0 0 Stanton, 3d b., 0 0 0 I 2 I Ford, zd b., 0 0 0 2 0 2 Total, 5 8 9 27 19 9 \' STARS. R. B.H. T.B. P.O. A. E. Chester, 2d b., 0 2 2 3 I I Casey, 3d b., 0 I I 4 I 0 Geer, If., I I I 6 0 I Sey1nour, ss., 0 I I 0 I I Dickinson, rf., l 2 2 0 0 I I-Iutn phries, c., I I I 9 2 2 Chase, p., 0 0 0 3 5 I Forbes, lf, I 2 5 2 0 0 Brovvn, cf., 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total, 4 IO 13 27 JO 7 The Union college nine met the Stars of Fort Edward on the latter's grounds, Saturday, May 27, and while they expected to win, they found the Stars a stronger nine than ever before, and by no means an easy nine to defeat. The following is the score : STARS. R. lB. T.B. P.O. A. E. Total, 4 4 4 2 4 1 5 5 UNION. R. lB. T.B. P.O~ A. E. Total, 6 6 6 27 I8 7

THE CONCORDIENSIS. According to agreement the Stars were to play a return game, but on account of rain the game was post- poned and played at Fort Edward June roth. The Fort Edward men were confident of winning and backed their opinion $200 worth. Their only run was gained by a wild throw. The Fort Edward men now allow that the Union nine can play ball. Anable's pitching was excellent. Following is the score : • STARS. :J.. lUI. T.B. P.O. A. E. T'otal, I 0 0 24 I2 5 UNION. R. B.H. T.B. 1'.0. A. E. Total, G 7 9 27 r8 3 On the afternoon of Decoration day the nine played Williams on the can1pus. Partly on account of the day and partly from the expectation of a close game a larger crowd than had ever assembled to witness a base ball con test in this place \vas in at- tendance. The gate receipts amount- ed to over $roo. The game was called at 2':40 o'clock, Union winning the toss and taking the field. From the first the result became apparent and our nine not being obliged to exert themselves, did not play as well as in their previous games. Score : UNION COLLEGE. R. B.H. P.O. A. E. I3 7 27 20 4 ------------ WILLIAMS COLLEGE. R. B.H. P.O. A. E. Total, 5 7 24 24 1 I The Union nine rnet a professional nine in the Troys, whom they played June I 3th, in the presence of about 6oo people, a large ntnn her being ladies. McCauley caught a fine game for Union and Flower did some pretty work in right field. Mc- Elwain made a difficult catch in centre. While Union played a strong o-ame we believe they can and would b have done better had they not been nervous, evidently thinking they had a big job on hand. The score: UNION COLLEGE. A.B R. B.H. P.O. A. E. 1\'otal 31 2 3 27 16 7 TROY. A.B, R B. II. 1'. (). A. E. Total, - 37 3 8 27 23 4 'The ga1ne between the Atl·antics of Brooklyn and Union college nine, announced for Monday afternoon, the 19th, ·was postponed because of the rain until Tuesday, when several hundred people assembled to witness the game. The Atlantics won the toss and went to the field. In the first inning the college boys scored three runs by hard hitting and errors of the short stop. In this inning also, the Atlantics made one run~ one of their men succeeding in reach-

204 .. --~T~H:..::E=--· -=C--=0--N_C_O_,_-_R~D~T __ E_N~S~l~S_. _______________ _ According to agreement the Stars were to play a return game, but on accotlnt of rain the game was post- poned and played at Fort Edward June roth. The Fort Edward men were confident of winning and backed their opinion $zoo worth. Their only run was gained by a wild throw. The Fort Edward men now allow that the Union nine can play ball. Anable's pitching was excellent. Fallowing is the score : (< STARS. ~. JUl. 'f.B. P.O. A. E. 1'otal, I 0 0 24 12 5 UNION. R. B.H. T.B. 1'.0. A. E. Total, G 7 9 27 rS 3 On the afternoon of Decoration day the nine played Williams on the can1pus. Partly on account of the day and partly from the expectation of a close game a larger crowd than had ever assembled to witness a base ball contest in this place vvas in at- tendance. The gate receipts amount- ed to over $100. The game was called at 2:40 o'clock, Union winning the toss and taking the field. From the first the result became apparent and our nine not being obliged to exert themselves, did not play as well as in their previous games. Score : UNION COLLEGE. R. B.H. P.O. A. E. 13 7 27 20 4 WILLIAMS COLLEGE. R. B.H. P.O. A. E. Total, 5 7 24 24 1 I The Union nine rnet a professional nine in the Troys, whom they played June I 3th, in the presence of about 6oo people, a large nu111 ber being ladies. McCauley caught a fine game for Union and Flower did some pretty work in right field. Mc- Elwain made a difficult catch in centre. While Union played a strong o-a1ne we believe they can and would b have done better had they not been nervous, evidently thinking they had a big job on hand. The score: UNION COLLEGE. A.B R. B.l-1.. P.O. A. E. 1'otal, 3l 2 3 27 16 7 TROY. A.B, R B. II. l'. (). A. }<~. Total, - 37 3 8 27 23 4 ,.[he gatne between the Atlantics of Brooklyn and Union college nine, announced for Monday afternoon, the r gth, ·was postponed because of the rain until Tuesday, \vhen several hundred people assembled to witness the game. The Atlantics won the toss and went to the field. In the first inning the college boys scored three runs by hard hitting and errors of the short stop. In this inning also, the Atlantic5 made one run, one of their men succeeding in reach-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 205 ------- --------- . I ~®- u®- ®- ® ~--:- ~-~l!!fS-!!4®, ing third base, when he came ho n1 e ~~~~~~~~====:====!::::==~='===--'--:=:===== on a passed ball. The remainder o.: the game was characterized by noth- ing except the hard hitting of the Union and the general looseness with which both sides played. The At- lantics could not hit Anable. Mc- Cauley and N aylon each made a two-base hit and Spencer 1nade two- tvvo-base hits for the visiting nine. Fairgrieve n1ade some beautiful plays in the left field. Neither side were pleased with some of the deci- sions of the u1npire, buf it is due him to say that many of the plays were so close as to make it impos- sible to render universally satisfac- tory decisions. 1~he following is the score : ATLANTICS. R. B H. T.B. 1'.0. A. E. Total, - 6 5 7 UNION. R. B.ll. T.B. p,n. A. E. Total, 7 !2 14 27 r6 6 THE YATES CUP. Owing to the engagements of the University nine, the class cham pion- ship was decided by games between the Juniors and Sophs, and So phs vs. :B\'reshmen. In the former the Juniors received an overwhehning defeat and in the latter the Sophs ~·ere as overwhelmingly defeated by the Fresh men, leaving the latter in possession of the cup. lJOGAu. -'The class of '82 has contained fifty-five members ; it graduated thirty-seven and is the first class for many years in which no student in a regular course was \left \ on gradu- ating. -The class has given eight edit- ors to the CoNCORDIENSis-1.\tlessrs. Lewin and Hargrave, Sophon1ore year ; Ford, Temple and D. S. Wright, Junior year, and the present Senior editors this year. -The Junior class have elected Messrs Zellas Clark, Geo. E. Fisher and John Higson, as editors, Mr. Hamlin having been elected for two years, remains as a Senior editor. -If any who have subscribed for this 11-umber fail to receive it they will please notify the editor with whotn they left their order. -At the adjourned meeting of the board of trustees, held in the chapel of the First Presbyterian church, June 28, the faculty who were opposed to the president were instruc.ted to prepare their charges in legal form and present then1 be- fore the board of trustees at a meet- ing to be held in Schenectady, July 19th. UNION COLLEGE. ScHENECTADY, June 27, '82. Beloved Pupils of the Senior Class: !-laving, at the earnest request of the family of our deceased brother

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ----·----- . I ing third base, when he came hon1e on a passed ball. The remainder o: the game was characterized by noth- ing except the hard hitting of the Union and the general looseness with which both sides played. The At- lantics could not hit Anable. Mc- Cauley and N a ylon each made a two-base hit and Spencer 1nade two- tvvo-base hits for the visiting nine. Fairgrieve n1ade some beautiful plays in the left field. Neither side were pleased with some of the deci- sions of the utnpire, but' it is due him to say that many of the plays vvere so close as to make it impos- sible to render universally satisfac- tory decisions. 'Ihe following is the score: ATLANTICS. R. B H. T.B. l' .o. A. E. Total, - 6 5 7 27 19 6 UNION. R. B.ll. T.B. P,ll, A. E. Total, 7 I 2 14 27 r6 6 THE YATES CUP. Owing to the engagements of the University nine, the class champion- ship was decided by games between the Juniors and Sophs, and Sophs vs. :Freshmen. In the forn1er the Juniors received an overwhelming defeat and in the latter the Sophs \Vere as overwhelmingly defeated by the Freshmen, leaving the latter in possession of the cup. UOGAL. --------------- - ·- ----------- -The class of '82 has contained fifty-five members ; it graduated thirty-seven and is the first class for many years in which no student in a regular course was \left\ on gradu- ating. -The class has given eight edit- ors to the CoNcORDIENSis-J\r1essrs. Lewin and Hargrave, Sophon1ore year; Ford, Temple ancl D. S. Wright, Junior year, and the present Senior editors this year. -The Junior class have elected Messrs Zellas Clark, Geo. E. Fisher and John Higson, as editors, Mr. Hamlin having been elected for two years, remains as a Senior editor. -If any who have subscribed for this Q.U m ber fail to receive it they will please notify the editor with whotn they left their order. -At the adjourned meeting of the board of trustees, held in the chapel of the First Presbyterian church, June 28, the faculty who were opposed to the president were instruc.ted to prepare their charges in legal form and present then1 be- fore the board of trustees at a meet- ing to be held in Schenectady, July I gth. UNION COLLEGE. ScHENECTADY, June 27, '82. Beloved Pupils of the Senior Class : Having, at the earnest request of the family of our deceased brother

.\ I 2o6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -- -------------- ------- in Alma Mater, your lamented class- mate, anticipated n1y part in this rnemorial service by delivering the address at the funeral yesterday morning before they left the city with his beloved remains, my duty now is sin1ply to convey to you through this comn1unication my heartfelt sympathy and my affection- ate aspirations for you one and all. In all life's pilgrin1age n1ay you re- alize that the Almighty God is in- deed your refuge, and that under- neath and all about you are the ever- lasting arms of his good providence and love. May you evermore have an abundant entrance through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ into his upper and better and eternal kingdom. Faithfully your friend, ELIPHALET N OTT PoTTER, President. IN MEMURY. On Monday morning, his eighth year hardly completed, entered into Paradise, Russell, youngest and only surviving son of Hon. Sa.1nuel T. and Julia Jackson Benedict. To= day, \vith sorrow as for the loss of our own, we carried his tender form to our God's-acrc and laid it, as he asked one day that he might lie, close beside his little brother, who died three years ago. The College Campus and the Gar- den where he loved to play and which now seem to have enclosed ~all his little life, l:e has left them only to gather fatrer flowers and ------ ------------- walk by brighter waters, with the kindred gone before. Dear little Russell! Everybody loved him with an uncomn1on love. His manliness, generosity, tender- ness and intelligence gave assurance of a noble future for earth; and the prayer which his s-vveet lips said every night, '' I give my soul to Christ forever,\ has its richer fruition where Jesus said, \Their angels do always be- hold the face of n1y Fq_ther which is . h • \ 1n eaven. Union College, July 5, I 882. PRESIDENT E. N. POTTER:- My Dear Sir :-The President bas rleferred answering your telegran1 of the first instant in the hope that he n1ight be able to send you a definite acceptance of your kind in- vitation to be present at the college during Comn1encernent week. He now finds n1uch to his regret that ow·ing to the late adjournment of Congress and the unusual press of official business at this time, it is ex- tremely doubtful his being able to attend. It is hardly necessary for me to assure you of his deep per- sonal concern in the welfare and usefulness of the college and of his wann appreciation of the kindly in- terest you have evinced in his he- half. Very truly yours, FRED J. PHILLIPS, Private Secr\etary. Executive Mansion, I WASHINGTON. ~

