TtiE C-ONCORDIENSIS. -- ------ -------·-------\\'·--- -~-----.---- VOL. V. SCHENECTADY, N. Y., FEBRUARY, 1882. NO. V. PUBLISHED MoNTHLY BY 'fHE STUDENTS OF UNION c,oLLEGE. ---------- -~- --- ------------------------- EbiTOR-IN-CHIE:F-E. C. MURRAY, '82. Literary Department, - A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. Local Department? Athletic Department, Personal Department, - Exchange Department, ~ Extranea Department, . \ E. W. GREENE, '82. ) G. F. ADDISON, :84. t J. G. GREENE, 84. - A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. W. K. GILCHRIST, '83. - ]. E. RANSDELL, '82. \ Collegensia Department, BUSINESS M.4.NAGER-]0HN R. BRIDGE, '83 . . --1-· --~-- ---------- ----------- -------------- ------------ THE ,CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. AnDREss: JOHN R. BRIDGE, P. 0. llox#-sr, Sclte1tectady, N. Y. l1fir The CoNCORDIENSIS will be found on sale at Barhyte's, rn State Street. --. Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second class--Matter, TABLE o~--- CONTENTS. LITERARY DEPARTMENT. Day of P1·ayer, 84 Winter Song, (a Poetn) 76 Extracts frotn Union College True Ft·eedom, 76 Laws of 18oo, 85 Joint Debate, EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT. ExTRANEA DEPARTMENT, 86 Answer to Complaints, 78 ExcHANGE DEPARTMENT. 87 Historical Society and Senate, 79 PERSONAL DEPARTMENT. Sg Mr. E. A. Freetnan's Lecture, So Lectures on A1nusetnents, 8r CoLLEGENSIA DEPARTMENT, -go CoRRESPONDENCE. ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT. Making up French, 82 The Fair, - 9Z LocAL DEPARTMENT. Garnet Editors, 83 ,, ·~

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. 0-- ----·-- -· -T---·---------- ----- ----. .... -----~------------- ------.--- VOL. V. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., FEBRUARY, 1882. NO. V. PuBLISHED MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. ------ --- ---. -----·- ------------------------ -----l- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF-E. C. MURRAY, '82. Literary Departmt:nt, - A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. Local Devartment, Athletic Department, Personal Department, Exchange Department, ~ Extranea Department, Collegensia Department, \ E. W. GREENE, :82. ) G. F. ADDISON, ,84. ( J. G. GREENE, 84. - A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. W. K. GILCHRIST, '83. ]. E. RANSDELL, '82. BusiNEss MANAGER-JOHN R. BRIDGE, '83 • 1 . --1-· ------ ----- ... - -----------.---------- ·----- ------------------------------- THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. AnDREss: JOHN R. BRIDGE, P. 0. :B·<:nc;>'..j.~I, Sclte1tectady, N. Y. 1fir The CoNCORDIENSIS will be found on sale at Barhyte's, nr State Street. ----------- ·--- ------··------------ Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second class--Matter, TABLE O:F· CONTENTS. LITERARY DEPARTMENT. Day of Prayer, Sf Winter Song, (a Poetn) 76 Extracts frotn Union College True Freedom, 76 Laws of r8oo, 85 Joint Debate, EDITORIAL DEPARTMENT. EXTRANEA DEPARTMENT' - 86 Answer to Complaints, 78 ExcHANGE DEPARTMENT. 87 His~orical Society and Senate, 79 PERSONAL DEPARTMENT. 89 Mr. E. A. Freetnan's Lecture, So Lectures on Atntisetnents, 8r CoLLEGENSIA DEPARTMENT, -go CoRRESPONDENCE. ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT. Making up French, 82 The Fair, - 9Z LocAL DEPARTMENT. Garnet Editors, 83 ·~ ~~

76 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~~!?)... ~~~~-~ ~~~~-,----------~---- ------. (~-~ - · •- -~ I • · · ~~~ I has placed England in the foremost WINTER SONG. Hark, hark! fellows hark! Jack Frost on a lark, Is abroad in the dark! He's bursted the bonds from his long silent soul; He's harnessed the winds to his chariot pole; He cracks his loud whip and blows his shrill horn Like the merriest mad-cap that ever was born. How Boreas snorts as he tugs at the trace And strains his long limbs in the roistering race ! And louder than horn or the whips piercing crack Peals the side-shaking laughter and shouts of old Jack. Hark, hark! he draws near! his chariot's deep thunder Makes the foundation quake, shakes the walls nigh asunder, And the full-chorused roar as the rogue rages by Jars the white dust to earth from the roof of the sky. Hark, hark! fellows, hark! But Jack on a lark Is away in .the dark. TRUE FREEDOM. ZOR. Freedom is the choicest jewel that sparkles in the crown of n1anhood. It has been the theme of the past, and of its glories the dreamer has seen visions from the earliest ages of history. 'fo attain it, men have sac- rificed the enjoyment of wealth, the love of friends and the comforts of home, have braved the opposition of armies, and have defied the \vrath of kings. Freedom diffused among the masses has made this country the leading nation of republicanism, and i ranks of monarchial states. But it is not nwtioaal freedon1 which \Ve consider, bttt that grander liberty of soul which lies at the foun- dation of all civil and religious liberty ! _-limitations pf king:liy prerogatives, ! constitutional restriction. of a sov- ereign' s powers and ~rnanci pation proclamations, are we 11 1 worth all the 1 . gold and all the blood. they cost. A i free ballot, free speech and free edu- \ I I cation are inesti.rnable privileges. But these arc not freed om's greatest · gifts. All who enjoy them are not free- t men. A man may be a citizen of Victoria's realm a11d yet wear the galling chains of servitude ; a n1an n1ay enjoy the privil-eges of Ameri- can citizenship, and y·et be but a serf. There is a spiritual desvotism more - terribl~ than the abs()l1:1tis1n of Russia; there is an in tellectt.1al bondage in comparison with whicn the horrors of h urn an slavery d\'in <:lle into noth- ingness. He who is clevoid of prin- ciple is but a slave ev~n thollgh he live under the 'Banner()[ the Stars.' What, then, is freedom ? IVho is free? There is a freedom of intellect and of will, an internal freedom of soul \vhich makes the wlt~{,e nan free,and without which all outward liberty is well-nigh valueless. ()f such a free- dom as this, parliamentary assen1blie,s an m zs. dt tb ca 01 . JU Oj . lS . n bt a . Ir w 11 tl h \t\ d ll a p 1: 1: a r

THE CONCORDIENSIS. < < 77 ------ ------ ---- < -- ---- -- ·- -- -- ----- ------~-- -------------------------------~-- and constitutional forms of govern... ' gains the n1astery over the animal ment are but feeble exponents. 1 natut·e. Who., reco·gnizing the grand- One of the most striking character- eur and n1ajesty of mind,. strives to istics of this spiritual jreedo11t is a make the int·e11e·ct the victo.r of the disrcga·rd of O't<tlzvard cz'rcumstattees. He is j1~ee who, relying on ·God and the power of conscious integrity, casts aside all fear of men. Stlch a one does not truckle to popular pre- judice, nor is he the slave of public opinion ; but .ren1em bering that he is accountable only to his Creator, he rises above the com tn on level and becomes a leader of men. Strong in a consciousness of freedom, he stands in the vant bearing the banner of progress, and leading the hosts of workers on to nobler achieven1ents. It is i1npossible for such a man to be the slave of fashion or to demean . himselfby follo\ving the precise rules ·which others have laid down. That n1ind, which is impressed with the ten1poral nature of the ' things which are seen,' is free in- deed ; no storms can disturb its equilibriun1, and ,the torrents of mis- fortune are powerless to drive it to despair. Disappointed hopes and unsatisfied longings only nerve it anew for the confiict. He who possesses a tnind thus free cannot be a creature of in1pulse, and cannot he ruled by circumstances, but makes all events, prosperous or adverse, minister to his in1provement. He -is free in whon1 the spiritual sense·s ; who r:egards spiritual health of greater importance thaB the en- , joymen t of sensual pleasures ; who spends his life not in pandering to the passions, but in hungering and thirsting after righteousness. \Have virtue,'' said Milton, \ she alone is r. \ .~cree. He £s free who, making matter subservient to the spirit, rises on the wings of faith and passes beyond the prison walls of the material universe into the pure sunlight of eternal truth_; who, striking every fetter from the mind, guards his intellec- tual rights with jealous care. He is the noblest freeman who thz'1zks, and then acts according to principle; wh0 clings to his religious and politi- cal convictions, not because he has inherited them from his ancestors, but because they are the result of his own intellectual and moral energy. Investigating for himself, and open- ing his mind for the reception of light from any source, he refuses to give unquestioning assent to creeds and dogmas. Such a man would say in the words of Chillingworth ;- \Take a ·way this persecution, burn- ing, dan1.ning, cursing of men for not subscribing the words of men .as the

7s THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------------------- - ~ - ----- -·· --- I words of God ; require of Christians 1 toward liberty,· toward freeing th.e only to believe Christ, and to call no mind fron-.t all degrading influences. n1an master but him.\ Man is free only when he guards the freedotn of his intellect ; and he who does this \vill have a free, un- bounded charity; a love which looks beyond self and sect, which takes pleasure in other's joy, which· syn1- pathizes \vith suffering humanity,and which recognizes the inalienable rights of all who bear the image of God. A l.ove which will sacrifice, and fight, and toil \that the Future may be tree.'' The tnind is our energy we enjoy all that we posses; by it alone can we hope to rise from obscurity to renown. The 1nind lives here in the hope of in1n1ortality, and it will live and increase, ancl develope,--- '' v.·hen the vmrld is uld; When the stars grow cold ; When the l~aves of the Judgment Bvok unfold.\ Shall thz's mind be held in bondage to prejudice, to passion, to suffering, and to .fear ? No! no ! Let tlze 1tzz'nd be free. And to attain this spiritual liberty, the enfranchising principles of the Religion of Jesus Christ must be ad- hered to. He is free who lives In obedience to God. A belief in llimcan enable tnen to resist temptation and to over- come the animal nature. All the teachings of Christ's religion tend Those \vho regulate their li,ves hy thes.e teachings are etnpowed to defy public opinion, to overcome the animal appetites and to gain the ascendancy over all corrupting in- fluences. The religion of Christ gives all the liberty it is possible for man to enjoy. on earth, and at last n1akes free with the 'liberty of the children of God.' · J OS. P. DAVlS, '81. NEw ~1\UNSWICK, ~--EH. 3RD, r882. V·./ e are often asked, \ Why does . 11ot the CoNCORDIENsrs contain as much reading matter now as it has in previous years?\ This is a ques- tion that we have answered at least a hundred ti1n-es, and now \ for the benefit of all whorn it may concern,, ·we tnake a forn1al declaration that the CoNCORDIENSIS· has contained as much reading matter exclusive of advertisements each n1onth this year as ever before. If there are any who doubt this fact vve ask thetn not to judge from the outside appearance of the sheet, but compare it colun1n by column with the same paper of any previous year and be convinced. Moreover the literary department, pla CU' ha . Wl in1 lSS . lnl dtl Wt ur w pa th \i\ SI P' fo at w P' rE w 11\ rr. n . lt . lt . 11 tl t d c ' t

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 79 about the length of which many cOn1- plaints had been made, is very tnuch curtail~d in this year's iss·ues, and \Ve have endeavored to fill our paper with matter which will be of some interest to our readers. Our last issue was stnaller and less entertain- ing than usual, owing to our absence . duting the Christmas holiday ; but we hope the present one will make up for the deficiency in both ways. We are now trying to make the ---~-~------ •\ ·- --- - -·· - - --- --- -- ---- esting daily occurrances that do not co1ne under th~ notice of any editor and hence they never appear in the paper; and there are many subjects that ought to be discussed which do not attract the attention of any editor. By noting these things and handing them in you will aid our paper and yours-the CoNCORDIEN- srs. It gives us great pleasure to note paper even larger than it has been . the continued activity of the His- this year so far, and l1ope to succeed. · w·e strive to make the CONCORDIEN- SIS better than the average college paper. Wherein we fail we desire . forbearance, but we do not wish any one in the college to think that we have cut down the size of the torical Society. Though but an in- fant, it affords its friends every reason to be proud of its enterprise, and hopeful of future success. Meet- ings are held every twp \veeks at which an assigned topic in American History is discussed by two essayists and a speaker. The subject is then open to general discussion, and though the young n1ernbers rarely say anything unless questioned, the worthy chairman, Professor Price, never fails to talk on many subjects of interest. The meeting of January 23d, when the society discussed the paper, when in fact there is more · reading matter in it than before, as was proven in the case of our first nun1ber when the printer desired · more pay for the printing of it be- cause he said that it contained rnore tnatter than it did forn1erly. And in direct connection with ·this we wish to say to all who are interested 1 · battles of Trenton and Princeton, our in the paper, and desire, as we do, to · see it enlarged and in1proved, that in ordei· to see this accomplished they must aid us by sending in con- tributions. The editors have other duties to perform, and hence they cannot find out everything that may army's movements around Philadel- phia, and the \winter at Valley Forge,\ was especially interesting. A full attendance listened to the regular speakers with pleasure, and then Professor Price drew an admir- able con1parison between Washing- ·be going on. There are many inter- ton;s manouvres around Philadelphia

So THE CONCORDIENSIS. and McClellan's Antietam ca·rn paign. Other general~, Napoleon,Frederick the Great, ~nd Lee, we:re alluded to in conjunction with our immortal Washington. \Ve urge all students whether particularly intereste.d in history or not to attend these meet- ings. Com,e to one, at any rat~e,. and see what you are missing! While speaking of the Historical Society our thoughts turn to another young institution, the Senate, and again it is our pleasant privilege to chronicle success. As the Senate has been several times written about we wish merely to extend our good wishe.s, and to assure all interested persons, especially our worthy Presi- dent, th.at \Ve watch its workings with pride and foresee 111 uch good from it to the young senators and in- crease of honor to Alma Mater. We advise rr embers of' 8 3 to attend the weekly meetings more frequently, for upon their shoulders the sena- torial n1antle is to fall next year, and it is well for them to profit by the experience of '82. 'These meetings are anything but dull. 'fhe debates are son1etin1es very spicy, and never fail to elicit strict attention fron1 the senators-remarks which we fear ' would not apply to our national and state legislative bodies. Judging from the appearance of the invitation cards sent out by President Potter, fron1 the articles that had appeared in the papers throughout the country extolling- the ·m·erits and fame of Mr. Edward A. Freeman as a lecturer, and more especially from his well deserved re~utation as a historian, we prepared for his 1ectur:e recently held in the First Presbyter- ian church with a great deal of pleas~ ure, expecting a great literary treat. Arriving at the church we found a large and constantly increasing audi- ence fro1n Albany, Troy and Schen- ectady anxiously awaiting the appearance of the noted speaker, whi]e several upper-classm~n in full evening dress w,ere busily engnged in seating the crowds of people who were coming in at every door. The speaker soon appeared, and after be- ing introduced by Rev. \i\/m. Griffis, used up twenty minutes in explaining the difference of, n~ eaning between the words \ three\ and :'free'' and ' in trying, at least, to i~_pre~s_upon his audience the fact that his subject was ' . '' 1,he English People in its Three Hon1es,\ and not \1'he English People in its Free Homes.\ Having accomplished this object to his own satisfaction; he used up the remaining forty minutes of the hour in explain- ing to his audience that An1erica is a-n English colony, and that the Dutch settlers in the Moha,vk Valley are \just as much Englishmen\ as the ·men who first landed upon as no als wl an pr sp pe of re Wl . JU as cc m \ U] tc s tl g t] t] tl VI f t 0 f

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 81 ---·---- -~-----·-- ------·----·-- ---- -~~ I Plymouth rock-and it still remains The pastor of the First Reformed as a doubt in our mind whether or not the speaker considers Holland also an Englisp colony. On the whol~ the lecture w~s. a total failure, and to us it seems strange that the press will conti11:u~ to laud such a speaker, . or even keep silep.t, and perrnit him to co.me before ~udi ences of.educated .. people, without at least representing him as he is. . As a ~ . writer and an historian Mr. Freeman justly enjoys a world-\vide reputation as a man in every way fitted for the work, but as a lecturer he is what in college phraseology \vould be called a \ total wreck.\ · It was amusing to hear the different .con1ments made by the Professors and prominent men. One described the lecture as a \ big piece of English cheek backed up by beef,\ and said it was enough to have ruined the reputation of a Sophomore orator. A.nother said that be went in on a free ticket and got back his money'& worth. From the remarks made by Dr. Potter in the Senior recitation roon1 we know that he had our interests at heart when he tnade arrangements with Mr. Freeman to come here, and for this he has our thanks, with the hope that he may be more successful in obtaining good speakers in the future. Church is now preaching a series of serrnons on all the prominent atnuse- n1ents of social circles. Th.ese lectures ~ . . . haye create_d a great deal of .. discus- sion as to whether a minister. has a I , '' right to ~peak <;lire~tly on such su~­ jects from the pulpit, and should . . . handle then1 in suc;h a free,. plain style as th.~t employed by the rev- ~rend ge\~1~leman just 11;1ention.ed. In _regard to the subjects, 've think it is not 9nly the minister's right but even his imperative ~duty to attack any social or. political abuses which m~y qe corrupting the co~nmunity or t.be country; but we decidedly. object to the coar~.e language \vhich we have la.tely heard addressed. to a refined congregation cotnpo~ed largely ~~of ladies. The past.or' s . lectures on music and card-playing, although spoken in plain, blunt language, yet contained nothing offensive to a re- fined ear, and were very :~nj,oyable. That on theatres and operas contained several expressiqns that were entirely too suggestive of lascivious thoughts, and the following one on dancing was replete with utterances too coarse even for the stage. The text, \There is a time to embrace and a tin1e to refrain from embracing,\ gives a clue to the ntinister's manner of handling the subject. He described the round dance as a\regular hug,\\a squeeze,\ '' a sexual intertwining,\ etc. Now when we consider that by far the

Sz THE :CONCORDIENSIS. --·-----------------------------~~ larger portion, perhaps, of his listen- ers had joined in the round dances, and, with exceptions of course; were pure, moral men and women, such language appears not only false but grossly insulting. \Ve say nothing about our own views in regard to the round dance, and. even we think it all right and proper; still we affirm that it is the pastor's duty, if he discountenances it, to warn his congregation of their error and dan- ger. But he surely could do this in decent English, without heaping in- sults on those who go to him for in- ' struction. We have anticipated lis- tening to these lectures vvith much pleasure, and sincerely hope that the retnaining ones will not be clothed in s.uch language as to force us to stay away from fear of having our modesty shocked. ~@O ~~ESPO N DENGE.~ . MESSRS. EDITORS OF CONCORDIENSIS: It has long been a mystery, and to some a grievance also, by \vhat col- lege law it is that students con- ditioned in French or G·erman are not always allowed the same privil- eges with regard to passing up this work, as if they were conditioned in any other subject in their course. In every class there are men who for so.m.e reason or other have the ill ~. fortune to becon1e conditioned . 111 more or less of their college work, and who subsequently pass satisfac- tory examinations and are able to graduate honorably. If the man is a classical and is conditioned in Greek or Latin, he is not only allowed the permission of \ passing up \ in every case, but the· greatest an1ount of courtesy is shown him consistent with college law and custo1n; but if he be a scientific and is conditioned in J:i-..rench or German, he is likely to be told that he is not a proper man to be allowed the privilege of graduat- ing, and that he cannot be examined. This·has been the fortune of several within the meinory of men who ar~ still in college, in fact of some who are yet students here. We would be pleased to see a reform in this direc- tion, and trust that the time will soon cotne ·when every man here will be allowed all the privilege due him as a student. A CLASSICAl.~. -Have you bought your \Tac- tics ?\ --Three Freshmen fainted while being vaccinated. -Eugene Parsons, of Shalbona Grove, Illinois, has entered the class of )84. th~ . ln Bi th cc tt 01 a E F ; I ,, t (

THE CONCORDIENSIS . . -- --·- . - -- -~- . -- ------------------------- ------- ----·-·------- ---- --· -- . . -··· Freshmen should be careful ho\¥ they address notes to young ladies. -· '84 and '8 5 are becoming noted in the church. The have three Bishops and as many Parsons among them. -A ~ ... 1~eshrnan covered his mirror with mist while endeavoring to re- tnove sotne dust from. his ne~ktie. -A little n1ore politics and the Garnet would have gone to everlast- ing rest. -A Soph. in Descriptive spol{e of the 1zocturnal colure. Prof. (in Political Economy): ''Mr. C. give a man secure possession of a barren rock and what will he do with . t ?'' 1 . Senior : '' He will turn it into a. gold mine.'' -''Nearly everybody was ''stuck\ in Rhetorical Exercises last Term. -A Senior says he is on a pro ba- tion. -A Soph. reading in the Ger- tnania of Tacitus translated '' lac con- cretum \ as '' Dutch cheese.\ -An alumnus inquires if Col. Pickett and Aumie are still alive. Of course. They are as much a part of the college as the old gray walls of \- our Alma Mater. ',\_The Seniors sent in to the Board -A Freshman says that Mary Anderson is the best prirna donna he ever heard. ·-The Garnet editors for this year are : B. C. Sloan, Sign1a Phi; Frank Burton, Delta Phi ; John R. Bridge, Psi Upsilon; F. W. ·McClellan, Alpha Delta Phi ; J no. vV. Adams, Beta Jhet41 PL. -A J uuior reading Gern1an trans- lated Buhlemetze (amorous snares), \ Atnh erst snares.\ -A Freshtnan wants to know if the members of the class of '84 at Cornell are Sophomores. -What talent may longlie hidden ready to be called out by favoring circumstances! Who had supposed that '82 contained an undeveloped n1usical genius? During the late revival meetings held in Union Hall the music was waxing rather weak, when a Senior stepped manfully to the front and conducted that part of the exercises vvith great eclat. of Trustees a long petition to have their holiday in April instead of June, but it was not granted. -Essays due February 27, 1882: Seniors: -The Evils of Monopo- lies. Juniors :·~Motives to and against the Legal Profession as a Career. Sophotnores :-Benefits of a Col- lege to its Neighborhood. -1--he Freshn1en class are to have their class supper in Albany, Friday, 1 February 17th. 'They have elected Arthur Anable toast master. 1'he Juniors will have their's at the san1e place, but have not yet appointed the time. -· We have glanced over the book catalogue of the Adelphic Society just out, and think the job does credit to our printer, Mr. Chas. Burro\vs. The type presents the same clean, clear-cut appearance as that of the CoNCORDIENSIS in the last two issues. We hope the Garnet will be printed at the same place. -We have as yet heard nothing

THE CONCORDIENSIS .. from the con1mittee appointed hy.the Senior class to make arrangements for the entertainments which the class proposes to hold to raise money for defraying their Commencement expenses. It is full tin1e for them to be bestirring thetnselves if they wish to accomplish anything. -W. has returned. Renaissance of the ()xford cap. -Another addition to the Fresh- men class. A Trojan this time. -A Soph spoke of the late collu- sion at Spuyten Duyvil. -A SenioT in Macbeth wanted to know why it is that witches are always represented as being women. -Ferguson, '84, bas left college, as has also Adams, '84, Lloyd, '83, Hale, '84, Garnsey, '84, and Tal- ley, '84. -Prof. (in History): \Methuselah lived until the time of the flood.\ C. : \Then he was drowned, was he?\ -Son1e of the students who were placed upon probation lately have received notice from the President stating that they are again in \ full standing.\ -The Chancellor's address of the next Comtnencement will he deliv ... ered by Bishop Littlejohn. Dr. Littlejohn graduated here in '45. -Our Local column was not very full in our last issue, owing partly to the vacation, and partly to the indis- position of the ur1der-classmen ap- pointed as editors of this department. -Scene in Macbeth- Prof. (in Macbeth): \You have not told us how Macbeth appearedto I . . .C' ... , 1lS Wl1e r Senior : \ Yes, but you asked 1ne to tell you ho·w he appeared to others, and you kno·w he and his wife were one. \ :1~ p . b . d .C' I - reparations are etng n1a e 10r 1 another joint debate between the ! A delphic and Philomatr.ean Societies. It is also reported that after this it will be the custom to hold one of these joint debates each term. This is a good plan, and we hope to see it carried into execution. I l '-J -The day of prayers was fittingly observed by the college. Services · ·were held in the chapel, and all who were so fortunate as to be present, listened to a most excellent discourse bythe Rev. Dr. BevinofNewYork. The theme 'vas \ The Conflict be- tween Science and Religion,'' and for three-quarters of an hour Mr. Bevin ·kept his audience with wrapt atten- ~ -The elevated seat in the chapel from which the Professor surveys the Junior class has been moved so that it stands directly behind the Senior · I tion. It was one of the most elo- quent addresses we have ever heard. seats. · · -The Class in H~ebrew is studying under Mr. W. D. Maxon, '78, and is making tine progress. It is composed of eleven ·etnbryo theologians·. -By the tin1e we graduate here we ought to know enough about the advantages and disadvantages, the be12ejits a1td evils of essay writimg. -In the Senate, recently, the \ Senator from Maine\ spoke con- cerning a bill providing for the edu- cation of children, son1ething after this fashion. \ Mr. President, I an1 astonished and mortified that such a learned body as this, of which I com- pose a tnenzbt·r, should ;;tttempt such an SU] pe: boc re~ . 01 SIS ca . rl( flj ro ht M th th th d< fr tr \V sr E tl h rr. E c~ T tl ~ l c tl a n s

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. ~-~----- -~-------- ----- an action as this. It is con1n1only supposed that college graduates are persons with their heads fillt'd 'Zoit!t books a ud suclz no12se1zsc. '' Senator resumes his seat a1nidst the applause oi his associates. -One of the Seniors recently per- sisted in discussing Ethics in Politi- : cal Economy, something like this: Professor : '' l)o you think it 1norally right for a n1an to marry n1ore than t'Zt'O rzoiz;es ?'' Senior: \ No.\ Professor : '' \iVh y ?'' Senior: \ Because if a n1an mar- . ries n1ore than t\vo \Vives he enjoys 1 n1ore than his share, and is thereby robbing you and me.\ -Levvin has so far recovered that he was able to start for his hotne in Maryland January 2t<th. It is feared th2..t he will not be able to return this year. The Seniors accompanied their classmate to the depot and he departed amid the cheers of his friends, who, as they returned to their duties on the hill, one and all ·wished him a safe journey and a 1 speedy return to his duties here. -'fhe rules relating to Rhetorical Exercises are 1nuch n1ore strict now than before. Orations and decla- mations not made and essays ·not handed in at th,e ti1ne appointed, are merely \ passed up \ not graded. Essays must also be carried back corrected in order to be graded. These are good tules, and we hope they will be stricti y enforced. ~ --Extracts from the laws of \ Old Union,\ in I 8oo: \ Every student admitted into this College is required to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the lows, as no plea of ignorance shall be ad- rnitted as an excuse for transgres- Sion. '' All the students are stricti y for- bidden to play on any instrument of music, in the hours of study, on the penalty of ten cents for every offence. \No student is permitted to wear his hat within the College walls, on the penalty of six cents for every offence. \ If any student shall go more than a mile from the College edifice vvith- out liberty from a men1ber of the Faculty, he shall be liable to a fine of fifty cents for every offence. \When an Officer of the College wishes admittance· into any room, he shall signify it by stamping with his foot, or rapping with his cane at the door. If any student shall use these signals, he shall be liable to a fine of not less than fifty cents, nor more than two dollars, and if he shall per- sist in repeating the offence, he shall be liable to admonition or suspen- Sion. '' As a compensation for his ser- vices, the Butler shall be allowed so much room in the College edifice as the Trustees shall judge necessary ; and shall be permitted to sell to the students in the hours of recreation, cider, beer, bread, butter, cheese, coffee, tea, chocolate, milk, apples, and such other articles as the Presi- dent shall permit, in s1nal1 quantities, and at a reasonable profit. ·• \ It sball be the dutv of the stu- ,/ dents in the Freshman year to carry tnessages when required by the Faculty to any student of College, or persons residing within the city of Schenectady. '' As it n1a y be necessary to at- tend morning prayers at an early hour, during some part of the year, it shall be the duty of the Butler or Steward to attend every 1norning at the pu~pit stairs with a lighted can- dle when the Officers of the Colleg-e enter the chapel.

! ; ' ' ' 1 ;,· tl I d ll i\ ' j.! d il' q '!~ il . 1~~ 1· ' ,, ,. :I :I ', ' ' ~: \ \ THE CONCORDIENS.IS. ~----- ---------------------- ------- ------------ -- '' Ali donations. to the Hb.r-ary of th-e value. of one- hundred and fifty d-ollars and- upvvards, shall be placed by themselves, and the names ofthe donors written over them in large , ld ' 1 ,,. go - _ etters. ~w~¥(/-~)'~/~~~/){-~'IQ'-~¥d .4.&4~~~~~4~~~~M -------- ------ -------------- -- . -- ---- -Slightly sarcastic vvas the clergy- man who paused and addressed a young tnan corning into church after a ser-mon had begun, with the re-- nlark: ''Glad to see you, sir ; always glad to see those here late who can't con1e early.'' And then d-ecidec.~ly self-possess-ed was the youth thus addressed, in the pres- ence of the astonished congregation, as he responded: \'Thank you ; ' would vou favor 1ne with the text.\ -' -Ex. -Teacher: \ Did I not tell you ' to· be prepared with your history les- -Boy,( to lady visitor): \Teacher son.? And here you are unable to : there's a gal over there a winking repeat a w.ord of it.\ Scholar : \ I at 1ne.\ Teacher: \Well then, didn:t think it was necessary, sir; . don't look at her.\ Boy: '' But if rve always heard that history repeats I I don't look at her she will wink at itself.\ somebody else.\-Graphic . She tripped o'er the snowy crossing.,. And the winrl that fiercely blew An inch or two of her ankle Exposed to public· view. The officer on the next corner Was distinctly heard to say-- '' Tha-t's the handson1:est thing in a stocking I've seen. this Chrisrmas day.\ -The chief 1nusical instrument in China is called the \ chin.\ There is also much chin-music in America. -Ex. There was also a cuss they called Mac; Who got kicked at the end of his back, For sparking a girl -A finely dressed lady slipped With a dizzy lorrg curl. an.d: fell nsar the post office, yester- N. B -The old man watched through the crack. ! - Occid.:nt. day, and the gentleman who assisted i her to her fe.et inquired, \ Did you b11eak:; any bon(ts, madam ?;; '' No, I g,ues.s not,.\ she replied ; ''but I am just as n1ad as if I had broken a dozen of' em !\-Ex. \ Only a lo~k of goldea'. hair,\ fhe lover: wrote. \ Perchance to-night It- fo'rmeth upon her pillow fair A halo bright.\ '' Only a lock of golden hair/' The maiden, smiling sweetly, said, And she laid it over the back of a chair, And. went to bed.-Ex. -A gentleman down eas-t, seeing his pretty maid with his ·wife's bon- net on1 kiss.ed h.er, supposing her to be the real owner. He soon discov- erecl: his error thFough- the assistance of his wife.-Ex. -\Do you have any fast horses in Germany?'' asked Gus :DeSn1ith of an old A us tin German, who is known as \Truthful Fritz,\ on ac- count of his sincerity and hatred of everthing sensational. \ Does ve have fast horses in Shermany? Vell I should schost schmile. Von day Baron von Kulsh wappel, a g·ood , friend by me, dakes me out in his I horse and puggy. After we rides I apout an hour, I says : ' Why for I you d.rives so much in. this cemetery?' I 1 He says: 'Dem vas mile stones; but ve goes so fast, de mile stones I make it look schost like ve vas in von 1\ big graveyard.' And now you vants to knows if ve has fast horses in \ Shennany!\-Ex._ hi ta gt '\V. St w ll( tc G fa gi h s tc 1< c \\i v t< tl ft fi d ( c ..... I t 1

THE CON·CORDIENSIS. ·----- -·--·-· 87 ------------------ ---------------------- -------------- ~-- -- -A chilling blast fro!h college I hill : \Vhen the cold wind bl.ovvs, , take care of your nose, so it won't .\ get froze, also wrap up your toes in . \varm woolen hose. The above we suppose, was written in prose, by one · who knows, the effect of cold snows. -Some opening chapters of the new '' Men1orial History of Bos- , ton: - CHAPTER v. Alro:ighty Dollar.' Thon1as Morton qu:e ried long ago, 'What will Mrs. Grundy say?' while Goldsmith an- S\Ve rs, ' Ask no questions and I'll telT you no fibs.' Charles C. Pick- ner gives 'Millions for defense, but HOt one cent for tribute.' ' First in vva.r, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his fellow-citizens' (not countrymen), appeared in the reso- luti ens presented to the house of representatives in Decen1ber, 1790, preJlared by Gen. Henry Lee. Prom the same W'C cull, ' 1\tlake asst.n~ance doubly sure,' 'Christinas comes but once a year,' 'Count their chickens ere they are hatched,\ and. ' L .. ook before you leap.' Thomas ,.fasser, a writer of the sixteenth century, gives us, ' It's an ill wind turns no good,' 'Better late tha:n never,' ' Look ere thou leap.' an,cl. 'The stone that is rolling can gatber no moss.' 'All cry and no wooL,' is found in Butler's ' Hudi- bx.a..s.' Dryden says : ' None but the bra.ve deserve the fair,' ' Men are but children of a larger growth,' and ' Through thick and thin.' 'No Boston was vaguely known to the ' Greeks. It is the real site of the fabled Atlantis. Moses would have got to Boston had not the Israelites been so stupid and obstinate. King Solomon always had an inspiration to get to Boston. Plato died longing to visit the neigh boring groves of Concord and hold sweet communion with the Concordians. Galileo in- voluntarily turned the first telescope toward Boston. The Egyptians built the Pyramids hoping to see Boston from their sumn1its. Diogenes was rolling his tub toward Boston when death overtook him. -Nezv York Graphic. SAYINGS, AND WHo FrRST SAID THEM. , pent-up Utica contracts our power,' declared Jonathan se,vell. Many of our common sayings, so trite and pithy, are used without the least idea from whose mouth or pen they first originated. Probably the works of Shakespeare furnish us with more of these familiar maxims than any other writer, 'for to hin1 we owe : ' All is not gold that glitters,' ' Make a virtue of necessity,' ' Screw your courage to the sticking 1 place,' (not point), 'They laugh that win,' '1\'his is the short and long of it/ 'Comparisons are odious,· ' As merry as the day is long,' 'A Daniel come to judgment,' ' Frailty, thy name is won1an,' and many others. vVashington Irving gives us 'The ~When Greeks joins Greeks then is the tug of war,' Nathaniel Lee, r 6gz. ,;; Of two evils I have chosen the lea..st,' and 'The end must justify the means,' are from Mathew Prior. vVe are indebted to Colley Cibber for the agreeable intelligence that ' Richard is 11imself again.' Johnson tells us of ' A. good hater,' and Mackintosh, in r 79r, the phrase often attributed to J olln Randolph, 'Wise and masterly il1activity.' \'Variety's the very spice of life,' an <I ' Not much the worse for wear' -<:owper. ' Man proposes, but God disposes '-Thomas a' Kempis. Thomas Gray consoles us with, 'Where ignorance is bliss 'tis folly to be wise.'

88 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -· ----------- ----------------- ------;if ____ -C~-- ~~lii!illJ~JJ i ~:-~c € X G H A 1\I G E S. ~~}:· ladies, and eighteen pages of adver-- tisements show also that its fair editors have as keen an eye to busi- ness as their brothers. 'J)e Tem- poribus.et Moribus' of the January number, discusses, among other things, the fan1ous U) Oscar Wilde. It begins by saying: ' We have read Oscar \Nilde's poems, and we feel as if we had spent the day in a boudoir, furnisht:d with daisies and cat-tails in Kensington, alternately looking at one of rfitians Venuses and poring over the Song ?f Solo~ mon and the L .. an1entat1ons or Ezekiel.' Then follow· several pages from which it is hard to decide \Vhether the ladies are defending or abusing Oscar. We rat?er tbir:k they favor him, but are a bttle afra1cl to con1e out boldly for one so much ridiculed as Mr. Wilde, not only by the Press at large, but by almost every college paper as well. In long essays -on subjects such as 'The Novelist,' 'The Reforn1er,' 'The Standard Dran1a and the Modern Theatre,' the Miscc!laJZ)' rcsen1bles the .. Southeru Collegian and the Nassau Lit., and those two journals First on our list is the Ar;g-o of WilliamsCollege. T.his paper, though in its infancy, seems to bear the im- print of years of experience. Indeed we think it second to none of the college press. Its edito1~ials. have a live, vigorous tone, handh:1g 1n. con- cise clear tern1s every topic of Inter- est to the college rnan. Although it. has a good supply of stor~e?, light reading, varied and entertannng, yet unlike the Advm:ate and CrinzsoJZ, for example, it devotes ample space to Colleg-e 1\lotes, ]Jersonals, Excltangcs, etc. We do not, however, mean to dis parage the Harvard Advocate. Its n1erits, based on thirty-three years of success,are vv-ell-knovvn and acknowl- edged ; but weakness often exists an1idst apparent strength, and the Advocate is undoubtedly ·weak in the matter alluded to. Of course by undergraduates who received the , various Harvard daily and other pub- lications the difficulty is not felt ; ' - ! would do \vell to look to their laurels. but to Alumni, who take only the leading paper of their Aln1a Mater, and to papers which exchange vvith the Advocate alone, it is serious. For light reading we say at once give us the Advocate. Its stories are always good, its. plays interesting, and it contains the highest order of college poetry. We have read of late many favor- : able criticisn1s of the Vassar Miscel- -: !any, and as they express thoughts i for which language fails our feeble pen, we give thanks to o~r more gifted brothers. The JJJ'zscella.rty stands alone. We know not w1th what to compare it, and yet can scarcely describe its difference from ; other good papers. Its neat appeat-· ! ance demonstrates the fine taste of I We arc o-lad to see that the Occi- dent and B~rkeleJ'1l ofthe University of California, have ceased their .bick- erina and become friends. It isbad b • enough for unpleasantness to exist bet\veen papers of separate colleges, but when two co-laborers in the same institution put on the war paint we may look for the horro~s of civil strife. In the short period of our college journalis1n \Ve shoulrl . not so speak as to arouse btter feehngs to carry from college with us. Perhaps no part of man's happiest period, the period of youth, is as happy as that spent (p college. And to the young editor many pr~cio_us memo_ries are linked to the fnendly relations with his brothers of the pen. We do . 1n m sl 0 fr Sf tb fa re . In ll( fl( cr le .: as cc b~ a w: ea le: . lSI th lit sp wl ut TJ go sp as et~ 'C

THE CONCORDIENSIS. -----~------------ ---·-·---·---- not advocate tameness toward con- temporaries. Far from it; but why arouse strife ·when we must meet it soon enough · in actual life.? We think the Bcrkeleyan rather pungent in son1e of its remarks, and that it might, by trying hard, learn to say sharp things in a sweeter way. The Occident is the only avowed anti- fraternity paper that comes to our sanctum. It says : \ Though we are opposed to the principle of fraternities, we wish to fight them, if a fight become neces- sary, on a perfectly fair basis. If any fraternity man feels himself aggrieved by anything that appears in the OccideJZt, its columns will alway\s be open for a reply.\ We don't approve of the sentiments that the Occident expresses, but it is fairly and ably edited, and we always read it with pleasure. The Soutlzcrn Co!legia1t of Wash- ington and Le'e University, Va., is a neat fifty page magazine. As we are not favored with many southern ex- changes \ve cannot say how the Col- legiaJt is regarded in the s9uth, and as to finding out what our northern contemporaries think of it that would be like 'searching for a needle in a haystack.' Papers of the larger institutions as Harvard, Yale, and Columbia, think the sun, moon and ~tars rise and set in their respective walls. They fling mud or taffy at each other, and scarcely deem all lesser luminaries in college journal- istn worthy of any mention, and th.e latter ape them. In every little sheet there must be a long space devoted to Harvard a1zd Yale, while news of colleges in general is utterly neglected. But to return! The Colleg·ian is in many respects a good paper. w~ think too much space given to literary . matter such as is found in Harper's, .Scrz'b1zer' s, etc., but even this point is debatable. 'College a:nd C~wpus ' is first rate, containing a thousand and one things to students and many hits that out- siders can enjoy.·, · \\\~r.l!! .• ~- -· . ., . il' 1 ' 1:.~ .i ' ·f&j&,'l Among many pleasant exchanges from the west none present a better appearance than the North-1¥cstern, from Illinois. Editorials are its strong point. We notice rather a spicy one in Vol. I I, No. 2, against the 'snobbery of eastern exchanges, that often have nothing but good clothes to brag of.' T'he article is not bitter on the east, but urges western colleges to join hands that they may test each others brain and muscle, and then, we presume, come east to display their prowess. We think the plan laudable and wish our western brothers much success. Under the charge of i~s ne\v board the Tri?tit;' Tab lett gh:es one a good impression. We hope that the pres- ent standard wiJl be kept up, for past numbers of the Tablet! have deserved criticism. It seems to be a failing of college editors to degenerate after the novelty of their work has worn off on the first few issues. ·I~· @E~SO NALS. ·t:• - -- -· ·--~------·- '3 5. Mr. Stillman died lately at his residence in Plainfield, N. ] . ~. Clarkson N. Potter died in New York city Jan. 23rd, 1882. The public life of Mr. Potter, in which he gained an enviable reputation a~ a lawyer and faithfully served his coun- try as a member of its legislative body, is too well known to require mention. (But it is as a friend of Union College that he deserves especial notice here. He looked up-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. on the college r:t')t only as an Alma \/ '83. vValworth is studying Ia w in Mater but as a monument of the Washington. labors of his father and grandfather, and he therefore was doubly zealous (83. Dan. Peoli is in Cuba, pre- in aiding it \vith counsel and assist- paring to try the cultivation of ance. In the time of its trouble he sugar. was made a trustee of the institution, and became instrumental in in1part- ::-- - - · ---- --- --- --------- ---------------- ing new lif.: and vigor to the college ' ~cr:~~~~.~~-~[~~~~Ct~~ of his affection. And so through life he kept ever in n1ind the \velfare and honor of his Aln1a Mater, and by his death she lost one of her most loved and honored sons) •If·@O L liEGE N S IA. ·~ :~ -Eton, one of England's most v--(57· Louis Rutki died, recently, famous colleges, has 890 students. from an affection of the brain. He ! \vas a nephew of the great Hungarian statesman L,ouis Kossuth. After graduating he went to Minnesota,and having studied law practiced there ! and acquired a large practice. l-Ie was one of the honor men of his class. -The young ladies of Easthan1 college have organized a base ball club, and practice daily. -Mr. Stephen \Vhitney Phrenix has left nearl v $I ,ooo,ooo to Co hun bia .I college. The gift consists of a val- uable library, which will becon1 e the property of the college at once, and about $6oo,ooo. Mr. Phcenix /-'6o. Chas. E. Patterson was re- elected to the speakership at Al- bany. He is a prominent lawyer of Troy, N. Y. -./'79. Bishop is teaching school at Poughkeepsie. , requests in his will that t,h e library shall be kept together and be known as the Phcenix Library of Col urn bia College. ,/,.,80. Dickson is teaching languages ' in the High School of Cohoes. v'8o. Crane is engineering in l{ansas. -v '8 I. At the last general term of the supre1ne court, held in Syracuse, Frank C. A very was admitted to prac- tice as Attorney and Counsellor in the courts of the state. v '81. Woodis studying law in Clyde, N.Y. v''8 1. Leland is teaching in Laurens, S. C., and not in Mississippi, as stated in our ]ast. 083. F. F. Bennet is editing the H ydc Park Her.ald, Chicago. -After Mary Anderson's perfornl- ance at N e\v Brunswick, N. J., the other night, she was hauled to her hotel by students of Rutgers College, who unhitched the horses from her carriage.-Brurzonian. -The whole college [Dartmouth_] is in 1nourning on account of the accidental shooting of Howe, a n1em- ber of the Sophomore Class by Flint, his classmate, on Saturday afternoon, Jan. 21~t. lt seen1s that Flint was intending to go hunting that after- noon, and while standing on the main : street put a cap on his gun, which,as he supposed, \vas unloaded. By son1e unexplained n1eans, the gun was dis- charged in his bands and the \vhole charge lodged in the back of Howe, \i\ n \i\ tl S( S< fE t . IS . In lJ w IS' pr of m G: pl~ be ai Cc s tt . 111~ an Tl M . 111 pn cu fac sh: m~: d.e:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ----·- ~- -- -----~ --- --~ --~-- who \Vas walking by at less than a rod's distance The injuries inflicted were so severe that he died in about ' three hours. Howe was a fine scholar, a true Christian, and an only son, and his death will be keenly felt by everyone who knew hirrt.- Harvard Daily .lierald. some of the college officers in a roon1. --A t:tuJnber o.f E.r's. It is rather singular that just that number of students vvere suspended for a similar offence about a year ago.--Notre Da11ze Sch.olastic. -Princeton is stirred up over the prosecution in the courts of a score of its students for \vandalisn1 and -A nevv Ro1nan Catholic col1ege is to he built in Boston. -The number of students In the United States is 2·5, 570. 1 ro\vd yism \ in celebration of the close of the tern1 just before Christmas. Our exchanges all kindly ad vise Dr. McCosh to keep his boys in after dark. -An An1erican took the first prize : in mathematics nDt long since at the lJ niversity of Heidelberg, Germany. - ... L\n1herst bas 2, soo alumni, of whorn 100 are n1issionaries, goo n1in- isters, 230 college presidents and professors, and 6oo lawyers. -Three ] apanese students carried off most of the prizes at the late com- mencement of the University of Glasgow.-Roanoak Collegian. -Prorninent citizens of Philadel- phia have petitioned the school board to assist in the organization of a technological sc hoo1. -A western foot-ball league has been fonned by Ann Arbor, Racine and Evanston. Madison will enter the league by correspondence. The constitution of the eastern league has been adopted. A series of garnes -vvill be played in the coming season, ai1d the champion will play the east- ern champion for the United States cham pi onshi p. -At Euglish Universities the 1nem bers of the four classes are known as Freshn1en, Junior Soph- isters, Senior Sophisters and Ques- tioners. In early colonial days it was supposed that the fourth class at the American colleges scarcely more than equalled in grade the third class at English colleges, and the name of \] unior Sophister\ was therefore applied to the third class, and that of -· It is reported that President Mc- Cosh intends to p~ohibit Princeton students from being on the streets at , night.--Echo. \Vhy not spank them and put them to bed ?--Cornell Et~tl. That's the way they do it at Cornell, McCosh !--Acta Colunzbiana. , \Senior Sopbister\ to the fourth -'fhe reforms recentl v introduced in the French schools and colleges provide that m ernory shall not be cultivated to the neglect of other faculties, and that the intelligence shall be opened in a way that will make pupils think for thernselves. -Oxford has suspended So stu- dents :who \Vere concerned in locking class. It did not take long for these nan-1es to contract into \Junior\ and ''S . \ E en1or. - ..... x. -The : Inter-Collegiate Bulletin about to be published under the aus- pices of the Knox .Stztdt'rtt,is expected to bring the components of west~rn , college world into closer relationship with each other. Its prospectus states that \it is the intention of the Bulletin to be a medium between colleges and college-bred men; to

92 THE CONCORDIENSIS. give infonnation in regard to ath- letics, literary and social events, changes in college government, em- ployments into which the alun1ni have entered, etc., etc.\ -A vigorous moven1ent against secret societies in the State U niver- sity at Champaign, Ill., has been be- gun by the Regent and Faculty, and approved by the Trustees. After the rst of January, 1882, no student can pursue any studies in the University until he has· filed in the Regent's a pledge upon his honor not to be connected with any secret society in the University, neither can he be honorably dis.missed or graduated unless he first file a statement upon his honor that he has not been con- nected with any such society since the first pledge vvas given. The , n1atter creates a good deal of excite- ment atnong the students, as the ground has been fought over in the university for years past. rfhe course of the Faculty is now very decided.--Clzicago Ti11zcs. -The University of Cambridge comprises seventeen colleges, each, of course, with its own govenunent buildings and grounds. The college grounds are much srnaller than those of the average .. l\n1erican college. 'fhe number of students is about the same as in our institutions. Much more attention is paid to the comfort of the students than here. At Cambridge an undergraduate's apartments consist of three large chambers with a small pantry. The main room is a fine, airy place, in which breakfast and luncheon are served by a private servant. At- tached to this roon1 is the little pan- try, used for light working and storage. Two other rooms open out · of the main apartn1ent; they are about ten by fourteen, one employed as a study, and the other as a bed- chan1 ber. A recent writer says of I I lite at an English college, that it is intellectually far stronger than that of an An1erican college. The men seem to accomplish ··more than vve do, with less work--Harvard Herald. -The oldest college paper in this country is the Yale L-iterary Maga- zhze, established forty-nine years ago. It has one hundred and fifty contemporaries, varying from the well known n1onthly to the dailies at Harvard and Yale. Eastern papers being older are better, but journalism in the west is growing rapidly, and at least one western paper, the Clzroniclc, compares very favorably with our best exchanges. The ladies are not behind. rfhey have prosper- ous papers at Vassar, I .... assell, Helle- mouth, Howard and Ontario col- leges. An off-shoot of the regular paper is the fraternity journal. The first one was published nine years ago by a prominent college society, and now has about ten associates. \ \.' I I THE FAIR. Despite the slippery walking and the drizzling rain, there was a fair attendance on the first evening, and those who were there were well re- paid for their trouble. Beginning near the door and ex- tending along the rear and left side of the hall were the supper tables, ·where many satisfied the cravings of hunger. On Thursday evening, the ladies be]o w the railroad took charge of frc sti thl wa of wa bo an Wf. of fri~ for \Ve Lal sp( de fill sid Wl a str hi~ wa re< w a f tht pia eq· th( At en en1 \( re~ ba1 clo If th( ex< 1'h hal it 1 at COl

~-~}? ~g_Q N _g_O~R_D I EN SIS. S3 of these tables, on Fridav the ladies fr?m the upper part of th\'e city, while still another party superintended the1n on Saturday evening. This was one of the best paying features of the fair. Near the stage on the same side was the flo~wer and fruit booth. This booth was trimmed in a very tasteful anq appropriate manner, and was well patronized. It was in charge o~ the Delta Phi men and their lady fnends, to ·whom n1uch credit is due for its success. Directly opposite ·were ~~e ice cream tables and the Landy booth. The Sigma Phis stood sponsors for the success of these two depart~ents, and well did they ful- fi.ll their trust. Extending along this side \Vere several booths well stocked with fancy articles. The absence of a central bo?th, which usually ob- structs the v1ew of the stao-e was 1 . 1 b ' ngh y comn1endable. A sketch entitled \College Pranks'' was put upon the stage, and was well received. \Vandy ., and Mr. F. N. Wal~ath, of Little~ Falls, next gave a fly1ng-bar performance, \vhich kept the house in a constant round of ap- plause. No one can den v that it was equal if not superior to ·anything of the .kind ever seen in Schenectady. At 1ts close they were n1ost heartily , encored but did not respond. Drowne then entertained the audi- ence with a song and dance entitled \Coney Isle,\ and being recalled, responded with a clog dance. . . by several others. The cornet solos· by Mr. DeBaun were bear til y ap- plauded, also the violin solo by Mr. Clark. The following is the pro- gratnme: Double Quartett \AUONG THE BARLEY\ Stir!Litg. Piano Trio \IL TROVITORE\ f/erdi. Cornet Solo Ma:le Quartette Violin Solo Piano Duett ! Cornet Polka Song \GAVOT\ Giese. \PEASANTS WEDDING MARCH. \ FROM BOHEMIAN GIRL\ '' RADlNSE\ Gotsclzalk. '' THE TEMPEST\ Instrumental Trio. Or~ Saturday evening the stage at- tractions were the flying and horizon- tal bar perfonnances by Vanderveer 1 and Walrath, who were enthusias- t~cally received, and a burlesque en- titled\ Bombastes Furioso,\ in which Messrs. Wright, Codwise and Bene- dict sustained the leading male char- acter~, while Drowne impersonated I the s1ngle female character. The voting for the most popular student was very exciting. At the close of the evening it was announced that Crane, '8 5, was the winner, but subsequently the decision was re- versed owing to the fact that the ballot on which Crane's success de- pended was uninscribed and the chair was therefore a~arded to Flower, '82. It is uncertain what is the exact amount cleared but it is at least about $350. Too many thanks can not be given to the ladies of the town, to whose generous and untiring efforts the suc- cess of the affair is almost entirely due. A perforn1ance on the horizontal bar by '' Vandy\ and \tValrath clo~ed the exerc~ses of the evening. If 1t were possible, this surpassed the flying-bar performance. Friday evening being very fine an excellent attendance was the result. I'he galleries and the body of the hall were well filled. We think that it was the finest audience ever seen at a fair in Schenectadv. .i\t a general college meeting a committee of four, one from each . class, was appointed to draft resolu- 1 tions expressing gratitude to the ladies for their assistance. The fol- lowing resolutions were adopted : ,./ The attraction this evening was a concert by Mrs. I. I. Niver assisted WHEREAS, The success of the re- cent fai:, held under the auspices of the U n1on College Base Ball Associa-

94 Tf-IE CONCORDIENSIS. tion, was chiefly due to the efforts of the ladies of Schenectady; therefore be it Resolved, That we, the students of ~ Union college, tender our sincere thanks for their generous contribu- tion and hearty co-,operation. Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be printed in the city papers. I.J. R. Hargrave, '82, ]). C. McElwain, '83. F. l). Hall, '84, . Thos. Ci. Addison, '85. Con1mittee. vention at an early day to arrange preliminaries. Those colleges in fCJvor of son1e league are desired to correspond with the captain of tbe Union College B. B. C. We notice that several frequenters of the ''gym \ are now sparring with 'Vandy.' Already many men in col- lege are fairly versed in the noble art of self-defence and doubtless able to. protect themselves in the future. No exercise can be superior as it brings into play the muscles ofnearly every part of the body and cultivates quick- ness of sight and movernent. As the base ball season will soon 1'he windows of the gymnasiun1 com1nence, it seems advisable that are now covered vvith wire, through some league be formed among the the kindness of Dr. Potter, and colleges which intend to support pitchers will be able to practice their . T 1 . 1 '' . \ \ d h \ 1· k nines. · vvo years ago t'11S p an was 111, \out an ''up-s oots, ·1 e- in force, and although not satisfact- wise the'' wabbles,\ \snake-curves ory in all its workings, yet it gave and many other wondrous curves an impetus to base ball which was I whose equations no analyticgeometry almost entirely lacking during the can ever hope to deduce. past season. Better gan1es were The following officers have been played,n1ore enthtisiasm was aroused, elected by the B. B. Association for the financial condition was far better i the ensuing season : than at any subsequent tinle. 'This President, Albert Pratt, '8z. league comprised the Cornell, Roch- Vice-President, ;\. w. Ray, '8 3 . ester, Madison, Han1ilton and Union S ' · · d 1 ecretary, A. H. K. Jervis, 84. n1n es, an doubt ess these colleges Treasurer, R. w. Franklin, '85. would again gladly enter son1e\si milar cornbination. No nine can be in a vVinter before last a I-I are and flourishing condition which depends Hound Club was ushered jnto ex:ist- on a few chance games to keep alive ence, officers elected, a few 'runs ' its energy. It must have \Vork be- I held, and then like son1e fleeting fore it and be forced, for the honor of dream it passed a\vay, leaving nothing the college, to prepare itself for the I behind to prove its existence except conflict. This necessity is to be , the 1nembers nan1es in the Garnet. found only in a leas-ue. Why should This ought not so to have been. The not an inter-state league be formed, recollection of some of the runs is a and a schedule of gan1es arrang-ed. pleasant reminiscence. T'he hill in We are certain that more than local Scotia by the placid 'vaters ofSanders' interest would be aroused. Our N evv L,ake will be re1ne1nbered by some England brethren rejoice in a league, who attempted to roll from top to Why should not New York which is botto1n and then come in with the nearly as large as New England do rest. It is a sport which all can en- likewise. We earnestly request our joy. Any 1nan with a good pair of contemporaries to consider this mat- legs and good pair of lungs is certain ter with a view to summoning a con- to come in with the crowd, unless he at ar so e~ st an pc th a ye T< be ex fiv an to slE me . 101 to Sc ha Hi vil Tr an att of Tl~ ou fill . Ill{. Ht pla tle . 111.!: L lifE 0111 tur un: thE be1 ex:: . 111C chf twc dot bly to

THE COJ\11CORDIENSIS. 95 . ------ --~-----------· ------- --- -- :~~~~1~~~~~~~ attempts to wear about six undershirts and other garments in proportion as some have tried in the past. Tbe exercises are certainly beneficial, strengthening the lungs and muscles, and who can tell of what value the power of running \vell n1ay prove in the future. In nearly every college a Hare and Hound Club exists and is yearly growing to be more popular. Tom Brow·n at Rugby makes the boys cover about ten miles without extraordinary fatigue, and here fro1n five to seven miles were gone over and then vivacity enough remained to enjoy a dinner at the Carley anci. a sleigh ride in the afternoon. By all means, let us have a good old fash-· ionecl run, for\ Vandy \is ever ready to lead. On the evening of Jan. 27th,Sergt. ! Scott lectured in the Y. M. C. A. hall, in behalf of the base ball nine. His subject was \From Chancellors- ville to Andersonville and the sea.\ I The hall was n1oderately vvell filled an'd we are sorry that more did not attend. Probably the brilliant fiasco of Freeman discouraged the students. The speaker while giving a general outline of the operations of the arn1y, filled it in with many anecdotes and incidents, both atnusing and pathetic. He was frequently and heartily ap- plauded. His description of the bat- tle of Chancellorsville was exceed- ingly vivid, and the story of prison life, with all its horrors touched every one. We regret that the Sergt. lec- tured at such an unfavorable tin1e. This space be1,ongs to Gavit, Engraver, Albany, N.Y. Shoes in Latest Style TO J\tfEASURE. ,FIT GU ARANTEE'D Y ~'. T'T ,.,---tlr\\' ~\ L ~ -- ...IL. .. ~~ c./ ...Al.. .:, - ... AL .:, . . r; . (' __ J __ :::;..-' __ J = __ /_ /'~ . ~ TWEDLE. H}LL SHOE STORE, DENTIST. ~--- ------·-·---~---~-~ --------- Successor to ]'l1e Late DR. SKINNER, No. 30 North Pearl Street, ALBANY', N. \-.-. '~rHITTijE BROTHERS, FLORISTS AND e~~,~)~M~N ~~~~~~· ·~~ ~ No. 36 North Pearl St., Nearly all the 1nernbcrs of the university nine have returned to their practice. Why do not the men1- bers of the class nines follow their example ? Certainly they have an incentive in the Yates Cup. The chances are very evenly divided be- tween the cl1sses, and the nine which does the 1nost faithful work \vill proba- bly leave their nan1es for other classes to envy. 1 A. E. ':V\hittle D. Wh1ttle. ALBANl:'\ N. Y.

-., g6 THE CONCO·RD [EN SIS. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ \' ~ ~ - -- 00 0 00 tv > z u ..--... cr. (') ~ ....... 0 00 a> fCI ~ ~ ::::1 \'j en 0.. M ~ fCI ~ fCI > C\D ...:: ,.., M- .......... ~· t:r:! ...... ....... en ~ ~ t:r:! t:r:! ~ ... -- -- - \\j c-:::1 :::: ~J -. ('D J-.01 t:-1 <::::) l P» (1) a ~ c--:2 n p ~ p.. I'd ·~ ::::1 m .... \TJ 'N '\V ·::;:- P» ~ t:=r:J ....... V:, 0 -· ·::s -. ::::1 p.. ~ ~ ....... . ,..... (1) n ~ -. n r---<! (fl ~ ::r' s:: p.:l ~ c+ ::::1 < s ....... ~ (I) 0.. :::s 1-i ·'N ~ tn C\D ~ 'N, '< V:, ~ p ~ U• ...... 1:1 ~ L I ::::1 p -. :::: ~ :::; Q \W. p:--:.. ~ p,. 1-i .o-q (!) () t;j C/:2 r-r- ~ PI :::: -. c+ ·~ -. 0 <: C/:2 \t 0 ~ -. n ~ Ul s P» ~ (fl 1-i ~ 0 0 \ ...... ~ (I) ~ c+ '\ p:--:.. . ~ .... ::r' ... ~~E 0 ....... (1) I ~~LUM~IA ~~~Y~Lt~. Made of the very best Material, by 1 the most skilled workmen, expressly I for road use. \ Columbias\ are the favorite with riders, and their superi- ority in beauty, structure and finish is acknowledged by all. ...... Send 3c. stamp for 24-page Catalogue ~~-IlLII ':!~m!; with price-lists and full information. THE FOPE MrG. CO,, 597 WASHINGTON STREET, BUST UN, l\1 ASS. --- -------~--·--- ----------- PHOTOGRAPHER, IS N. Pearl St., Alba1zy, N. Y. Special Rates for College or Class Work. Photographer to 1 Class 'Sr, e nion College. CONRAD GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, Al\'D DEALER IN Foreigrt & Do1nestic Jfloolen Goods, 85 Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Perfect Fit and Good \Vork Cuarn.nteed. ($@ I:J~~U@iWI&~. CELEBRATED HATS. T7S & 18o Fifth Ave., I j I79 Broadway, near and bet. 22d and 23d Sts. \ ! Cortland St. NEW YORK, And PALMER HOUSE, CHICAGO . OOBR.:EOT STYLES. EXTRA QUALITY I CHAS. BURROWS, ·:-~·~¥E/'1fd~t+P~IN1FE~,·~:· I 87 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 0-lobe Cor. State, S. ]>earl & 1-fozoard Sts. Jas. A. Houck, Prop. $2.00 per day. i Entraace, 7 South Pt;arl St. ~ A~,BA:i\;V, N. Y, C. BURGESS, CITY PH()TO(iR.L~PlfER, 105 a1-zd I07 State St., ScheJtectady, N. Y. G. PALMATIER~ CUSTOM BOOT AND .SHOE MAKER. Repairing promptly done. 82 Cetztre Street, Scltenectady, N. Y.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 97 KING, ((THE}) TAILOR! 102 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. AU the Latest Styles in Cassimeres, Beavers, and Suitings always on hand. Garments cut and n1ade in the Latest Styles at the Cheapest Rates. W. T. HANSON & CO. Druggists a11d Apothecaries, Tt>ilet Articles and Druggists' Sundries. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. I95 State .Street, Schetzectady, N. Y WILSON l)AVIS, WOOD BROS., Shirts I Shirts! Ready-1nade and Made to Order. A LARGE .LINE OF UNDERW-.AR. All the Latest Style SC~L\RFS, TIES, CO IJLi\RS &c. Goods received for Troy Laundry. I3J State Street, Schenectady, N Y. ----- --- -~-- - ------- --- -- --- ------------ C. F. RIEGER, S:HA VING AND HAl& DRESSING F ARLD!S, PATRO~IZED BY STUDENTS. I87 State St., Up Stairs, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. L. T. C.L UTE .. FASHI()NABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox Hats. Best Assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, etc. in the City. IOI State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N.Y. Diplomas, Views, Portraits, JVedding and College bzvitations, Cards, Monogmms 1 Eto. Original Designs when desired. A. BROWN & SON, UPHOLSTERERS AND Furniture Mantlfactllrers, i I54 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Merchant Tailor, ci-rAs. N. YATEs, FURNITURE I IS State Street, Sche11ectady, N. Y. WILLIAM STOOPS, Mere han t Tail or AND DEALER IN Cloths, Cassimeres, Vestings, &c. -A~D- UPHOLSTEB.ING W AREHOU.-;E, ~ Special A tteJZtz(m given to Underta!dJZg. 62 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GEORGE E. VINCENT, Gent's Furnishing Goocl.s, And Manufacturer of Tf-IE ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, I07 State Street, Sche1zectac(y, N. Y. Myers' Block, . .. , 5_chen:ectady, N. Y.

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. DR. DE F. GRAY, Successor 'to J. C. Duell. Operative and .J{ecitan £cal DENTIST, OFFICE AND HESIDENCE: No. 47 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. ---------------~-------·- ------- W. H. & S. V. LINES, THE LARGEST BOOT )ND SHOE DEALE~S IN THE. CITY, Agent for \ i~lBT!& a;nd rl~HSWOR ., SHOES. Barney Block, Schenectady. N. Y. W. F. McMILLAN, Manager. ?\)~~ TOBACCO ANOC'IGARETTES. 01zly ]Jure T'oba.cco and Pure Paper! SWEET .CAPO:RAL. CoRK 1\IorTHPIECE.~Unsurpassed for cleanliness, econ- omy and convenience. The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nic0tine and rendering a cooling 1 sensation to the smoke. Same tobacco as the renowned SwEET CAPOI{AL CIG- ARETTES, absolutely jure. The Caporal, Caporal 1 2 and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended. SU'L.T .ANA.. ENAMELED ENDS.-The tip of these Cigarettes are imper- vious to moistu-re, thus enabling the smoker to consume them without mutilating the paper in the mouth. Made from the finest selected bright Virginia. Mild and sweet-guaranteed pure; KINNEY ToBAcco Co., NEw YoRK. Manufacturers of the following well known brands: CAPORAL, CAPORAL !2, SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES . 1 2 MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc., Ere. J'.l(;it\' Buy no other. Sold by aU dealers throughout the world. HEADQ-UARTERS FOR CORRECT STYLES !~ GENTLEMEN's FIRS1' CLAss Rl~LIABLI~ CI_J{)rilHING ! Ready--nzade or .Jfade to Order. ~ Latest T\ovelties in Gei'l!t's Furnishing Goods. AT WrLSON & GRoss' THE LEADING CLOTHIERS. 490 and 492 Broadway. I 26)\laiden Lane. ) ALBANY, N.Y. - ---------·--- ROBERT T. MOIR. (St:CCESSOR To joH:-< GrL:\IOCR) DEALER TN DOCKS, STATIONERY .\~0 PAPER HANGINGS, Nos. 20 I State and II 6 Centre Sts, Schene~tady. Agency for Anchor, Inman, and Hamburg-American Trans- Atlantic Steamship Lines. Stanford Block. BAUM'S CIGAR STORE AND NE-w-S-ROO:M::~ Cigars and Tobacco Of the choicest kinds constantly on hand. Cigarrettes a spec- ialty. All the Leading Periodical\. Suuscriptions respect- fully solicited. GOLD CLip TOBACCO & CIGARETTES EITHER SWEET OR PLAIN, ARE OF THE FINEST QUALITIES, ALWAYS UNIFORM AND RELIABLE. TRY TH:E SEAl·SKIN CIGAR HAND·MADE OUBAN STYLE. SEND $3. 75, and we will forward by mail, registered, a 50 box of the Seal-Skin Cigar. This is a special offer to enable smokers to tePt this celebrated brar1 d. After a trial you will smoke no other. S. F. HESS & CO. Pre:rni,,Pl Tobacco Works, ·Rochester, N. Y- Go To POWERS, 1'1-IE PF-iOT03 R1~ PH ER, FOR BEST PHOTOGRAPHES, 225 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, X. Y. vc LI

