.. j The Con_cordien_sis. VoL. VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, FRIDAY, NovEMBER 23, r883. No. 2. TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHED MONTHLY, BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS: JOHN F. DELANEY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. SSOCIATE EDITOI~S. UNION CoLLEGE: R. R. BENEDICT, '84. PuTNAM CADY, '8s. T. c. LAWLER, '86. LAw ScHooL: B. C. SLoNE. J. T. MoREY, '8s. J. J. McSoRLY, '85. E. E. VEEDER, '86. F. E. SMITH. MEDICAL CoLLEGE: C. T. TIMMERMN, '84-. ]. A. CuTTER, '86. S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. ScHOOL oF PHARMACY: I. P. EsTcouRT. A. McFAR~ANE, Bushtess MaJZager. All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box 960. Articles requested from the Alumni. TERMS.-One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order of Business Manager. Entered at the Sche1zectady, N. Y., Post-Office as second-class matter. PLAGIARISM. A T the last con1n1encen1ent Mr. Franklin \V. Mc- Clelland delivered an oration entitled \ The South which lost,\ and alth~ugh his delivery of it was only fair, such was the excellence of the oration that he obtained the second Blatchford oratorical prize. K.nrwing that it had given n1uch pleasure to those who heard it, and believing it would give even greater pleasure to its readers, we requested it for publication. In the last nutnber of the Wake Forest Student, Mr. McClelland is accused of copyi11g it ahnost 7.Jerbatint fro1n an oration entitled \The Lost Cause,'' delivered by Geo. W. Johnson, of Frankfort, K.y., in a prize contest ... at Yale, March 30, r38z. We gave Mr. Mc- Clelland eve:ry opportunity for defense, but none was possible so evident was the plagiaris1n. In conclusion, we quote the words of the Middlebury \ Undergradu- ate \ as fitly expressing our sentiments in this matter : \It is bad enough to plagiarize under any circutn- stance, for then only disgrace fall upon the plagiarist. But to win an honor by a wholesale act of plagiaris1n is not only a disgrace but a shmne, for it deprives honesty and patien\t work of its just reward.\ A S our locals tell, the Adelphic Society has appointed a cornrnittee of three to meet a like con1n1ittee fron1 the Philornathean to arrange a joint debate. We approve heartily of all such exercises. They arouse interest in the literary societies and afford an oppor- tunity for the cultivation .of talents which otherwise are rather neglected here. Let the debates con1e often, too. A week or two should be enough time in which to prepare a debate; and as the co1npetitors in the different debates woul~ not be always the same, joint debates could, to SOlTie extent, take the place of the regular routine work of the societies and prove far n1ore interesting. THERE is need of an association among the alumni of Union resident attA.lbany. Our alu1nni all over the country are n1en whon1 any college n1ight be proud of possessing; and nowhere are Union n1en n1ore nun1erous or n1ore influential than at Albany; In these titnes, when the College is fighting against unfortunate and adverse circun1st-ances, the existence of an alun1ni association at Albany would be of the greatest use in helping to sten1 the tide of adversity which threatens, at least to impair the usefulness, to lessen the prosperity of this institution. vVe believe that the worst of the unfortunate quarrel is over, and that concerted action on the part of the alun1ni will end all dispute and put this College again in the position in which it once occupied. Let some one start the good work at Albany ; once begun it is sure to be a success. A COLLEGE course teaches but few of the prac- tical things of life. If it can train a 1nan to think clearly and decisively, its work is done. It is, how- ever, often said that the four years of rnonotonous drill in con1paratively useless branches could be spent to better advantage. But the fact still ren1ains tuat only by the study of these subjects can the n1ind be trained so that the practical things of life can be persevf\rtngly and understandingly investigated. So1ne., on the'·other hand, think that drill is the whole object of a college course, and so do no work outside of the established

• 20 rfHE CONCORDIENSIS. curriculum. This is poor policy. Men graduate from our universities who can give you, without hesitation, the derivation of a Greek verb, but who cannot tell whether France is an absolute despotisn1 or republican govern- Inent; and yet these n1en are expected to be able to write an intelligible atticle on aln1ost any subject. They have spent their tin1e in acquiring ·power without add- ing practical knowledge. Such n1en are like a regi1nent perfectly drilled in the n1anceuvres of war, but without an1111U111t1on. There is something besides n1ere drill necessary to be considered. A good stock of practical knowledge and skill in debate are essential to success in public life. But 1nany assert that they have no spare ti1ne for general reading if they faithfully attend to their regular duties, and that in after life they expect to n1ake up the deficiency. It is a well-known fact that when once engaged in business or profession, little attention is paid to general reading. Undoubtedly there is less tin1e for it then than in college, where it is possible to take the tin1e. Drill, knowledge and skill in debate are three essentials to success in pubHc life; and one tnust not be cultivated to the exclusion of the other. If in College a \happy mediu1n\ can be struck, the greatest advantage will result. It has been said that \ reading n1aketh a full man ; conversation, a ready 1nan; ''rriting, an exact n1an.\ If n1ore students would consider this truth, there would be fewer college graduates who are unable to make a speech or to be of any practical benefit in the world. \Ve do not say that a n1an who takes a systen1atic course of instruc- tive reading, and uses his privileges in debate, will take as high a n1ark in his class ; hut it can be truly said that he will graduate better prepared to enter upon the active duties of life. have co1ne under our observations have been few and far between. Neither do we believe that the excep- ~ tions have been nuinerous elsewhere. 'Tis true that the custom of 1narking daily, recitations may be unfair to so1ne rnen who are unable to 1nake a perfect recita,.. tion even when they know the subject _well. :But al'l will admit such men- to be very few. Now, usually to obtain a good n1ark on any subject one n1ust do good, regular work, and the vvay of getting a 1nark differs not fron1 that of obtaining knowledge. Besides, if it 1nakes 1nen dishonest to have their work in college valued by the professors, it must certainly n1ake men dishonest to have their work in life valued, estimated by their fellow men as it is. Those who argue against the lnark.- ing syste1n, on the ground that n1en learn to be deceit- ful because their work is n1m·ked or valued, sin1ply say to the professors : ';Do not forn1 your opinion of this n1an's work, for if you do, he will lie, deceive you to give you the idea that he is better than he is.\ This an1ounts to nothing else than this : \ Do not put a goal before n1en, because they will clo wrong to reach it.'' The goal is the professoT's good opinion of your work represented by a good n1ark. While it ntay be true that the removal of all object of desire would also re1nove from the world all sin, it would re1nove all virtue in like 1nanner. While it may be true that if there were no n1arking syste1n there would be less tendency to- wards deceit, there would be less reason for work. The con1parison which the 1narking system institutes stirs the great 1najority of 1nen on to legitin1ate endeavor. The few it teaches to deceive would be deceivers any way, for the world lq.cks not honors to be striven for. This, we think, disposes of the two argun1ents against the n1arking systen1. The n1ain argun1ent for it is one of authority, nan1ely, that n1ost n1en with experience as THE MARKING SYSTEM. ' educators believe in it. This is a strong argurnent. MOST of the College journals of the country are vVe see only the evils in this system ; we, perhaps, are conde1nning the marking systen 1 and urging its subject to the injustice it son1eti1nes causes. Ours is discontinuance. Every article on the subject that has likely to be a prejudiced view of the subject. 1'hey, come under our notice has based its opposition to on the other hand, see that it helps then1 in their work; the system on t\vo grounds-. the first, that the In arks that it causes n1en to be studious and regular. While unfairly represent a man's work and ability; the second, it is altogether proper that college n1en should discuss that men learn to becon1e dishonest in procuring 1 narks ' the institutions under which they live, their im1noclerate which the real \Vork done \vould not warrant their re- ' assertions tnust in n1any cases be attributed to the ardor ceiVIng. We, too, see son1e faults in the 1 narking ! of inexperience, and be taken with a grain of a11ow- systen1 _; yet, on the whole, we believe it to be produc- 1 ance. tive of 1nore good than evil. '<ow, do n1arks unfairly represent a 111an's work? We believe they do not. In our experience, lin1ited as it n1ay be, the n1en who take the highest n1arks, are the men who rlo the best the ' 1nost regular work. The exceptions to this rule, which THERE is a rowdyish custom prevalent an1ong the · students of North and South College, which has been in vogue for son1e years. People, and especially ladies, cannot pass those buildings without being stared 8 c. c ... r . 1 (

THE CONCC)RDIENSIS. 2 I at by a score or n1ore of heads stuck out of the win- dows, and being sa:luted by the yell of '' Heads out ! \ So well known is this rowdyisn1 in Schenectady that n1any ladies will not visit the hill for fear of being thus insulted. It is tirne that this. custom cease. Fellow- students, you are gentlen1en ; see that henceforH1 you o'erstep not the bounds of gentlemanly conduct. W .. ··. E feel ~reatly .encot:ragecl by the 1nanifest appro- val w1th wh1ch 1 HE CoNCORDIENSIS has rnet. Students and alumni have corne forward and freely subscribed. We hope that the subscription n1oney will be paid pronrptly. :'Money makes the n1are go.\ M !LIT AR Y drill has for more than years ceased to , trouble the students of U1•ion. It is now to be revived under Lieut. Hubbell of the U. S. artillery. That gentlen1an has already entered into the work with zeal and an evident desire to make it not only bene- ficial, but interesting to all. Drill will no longer be a part of the regular college course, but instead will be entirely voluntary. A NOVEMBER REVERY. 1'HOUGH the cold winds may blow O'er the desolate earth, What reck we when bright Glows the fire on our hearth; When the sparks flying upward Seem to boldly defy The storm's howling blast From the dark wintry sky? Alone with our thoughts In the firelight we sit, \Yhile the shadows around us Like dark phantoms flit; And fond recollection To memory. lends, The voices and forms Of far distant friends. 'Round the home of our childhood We Fancy pursue; vVe roam 'long the brook Where the green willows grew. And bathe once again In its clear ·waters cool, That allured us e'en oft, Idle truants, from school. But as memory's halls Oft echoing thro', Comes a Rlother's svveet Ever tender and true. VOlCe, • From our bosoms unconsciously Issues a sigh, And the unbidden tear Quick starts to the eye. As thus in the firelight, We live once again, The past, gone forever, Fraught ·with pleasure and pain; Cheered on by its joys, Chastened, too, by its sorrow, Fresh courage we take For the strifes of the morrow. BROWN'S ROMANCE. A TRUTH . l) J1'· ' Q .- [\ (- ' ().) . GEORGE AUGUSTUS GREENBUSH BRO\VN was a junior at college. You cou 1d tell that he was a Brown at first glance, for he bore upon his face the unmistakable 1narks of t~1at ren1arkable family. Moreover, Brown's father was also nan1ed Brown ; however, we do not dispose to go into his family history. It can be said to his credit that he was not a dude ; neither was he a \ter- rier.\ l-Ie could srnoke a cigar and drink a glass of beer in a civilized way, but professed no fo.ndness for either. He had a weakness, however, a decided fondness, for girls, and was, what is con1monly called, a '' 1nasher.\ About two days previous to the occurrence of this tragic episode, his friends noticed that he bore a Inys- terious air, and was given to fits of rnusing. They innnediately suspected that son1ething was up and set to work to wonn fron1 hin1 the secret. The first day their efforts proved useless, but on the following n1orning Brown divulged it. It seen1ed that he had received a note fron1 an un- 1 kpown fen1ale, asking hiln to call, as she very earnestly wished to make his acquaintance. It was signed \ Cordelia.\ Brown's friends all agreed that it was a delightful little ro1nance, and they patted hi1n on the back and called him a \lucky rlog.\ It is needless to say that he was son1ewhat proud of being the hero of so much n1ystery, and that he in- dulged in a great n1any sunnises concerning the channs of the fair unknown. The name \ Cordelia\ he lovingly pronounced over and over again. He wrote it with his own nmne, \Cordelia Brown,\ and tl1en \ Mrs. Cordelia Brown.\ He i1nagined himself gently calling \Cordelia over the breakfast table, to pass hin1 the fish-balls. He

Z2 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. was oblivious to everything that was not associated I with \Cordelia.\ .Slowly the day wore away, and the night, that wa§ to witness his obedience to the sun11nons of Cordelia, drew on apace. At eight o'clock he n1ight have been seen on a cer- tain street sauntering joyously along towards, the house to which the note directed hin~. He arrived in front of it and stopped to hear if she were heralding his expected arrival with a :flourish on 1\h.e piano ; but no such noise met his ears. \ Perhaps she is so agitated that she dare not trust her tren1bling fingers upon the keys,\ he thought to himself, and without further delay he n1ounted the steps and rang th.e bell. • His pulse was now beating a little n1ore rapidly th~n the nonnal condition of his systen1 required and a mild form of exciten1ent slowly seized hin1. I A n1inute passed, steps resounded in the hall and j the door flew open. An odor of cabbage darted forth I I and nearly knocked hin1 down. · His enthusiasm cooled. Cabbage and ron1ance don't go well together. He felt already as if he want- ed to go ho1ne, but back out now he could not. \Who 's there ? \ said a fen1ale voice fron1 the dark- ness. \ I am,\ answered Brown. \You do n't say so. Well, young 1nan, wl;.at do you want? \ said the voice, a trifle sharper than be- fore. · \Is Miss Cordelia in this evening? \inquired Brown, 11()t without n1isgivings at heart. \Yes sir, she is., Pausing a second, and then thinking her last words n1eant an invitation to con1e in, Brown nervously pushed his way into the hall and followed his friend into a back room, the smell of cab- bage growing stronger and stronger. There, seated near the stove, was an individual whon1 he at once recognized as the \ old man.'' He had hardly tilne for further observation when a cadav- erous looking fe1nale of about thirty-five sun1n1ers and several late springs, with a red ribbon in hair, softly glided to his side, 1nurmured his name and gently led hi:m out of the roon1, across the hall and into a small \ back parlor.\ The horrible thought that this fean1ale was his adored Cordelia flashed through his brain. His friend now n1otioned hi1n to a seat beside 1 her 011 the sofa, and Brown, sick at heart, was obliged to sub1nit. Poor Brown- sat down. He felt sad and weary, and l1ad nothing to say. Cordelia, for she indeed it was, perceivin_; his en1barrassn1ent, n1oved a ~ittle nearer to hhn and bega11 the conversation . \Is not this ro1nantic, Mr. Brown?\ \Yes; oh, yes, I suppo'.ie it is?\ returned Brown, starting as if out of a nightlnare. ., ' An1 I like what you pictured 1ne ? '' asked Corde- lia, n1oving a little nearer, with a sumn1er squash smile on her face. \Well no-that is-· I n1ean-yes. Oh, yes,'' he stan1n1ered. \You are n1uch younger than I thought you would be,\ Cordelia said softly, and this ti1ne n1ak~ng a hitch which placed herself very close indeed to hin1. \No-is that so ! \ is all he had to say. A silence followed. She f:1ighed; he aln1ost groaned. Presently, thinking hin1 entirely overcon1~ by diffidence, she took hold of his hand, n1oved still nearer, dropped her head upon his shoulder, raised her eyes to his, tickletl hin1 under the chin with the forefinger of her right hand, and coyly whispered, \ Oh, George, we shall be such firn1 friends, won't we?\ \I suppose we shall,\ he returned, in a rnechanical way, now completely resigned to his fate. \'Vhat will your friends. in West Albany think of your choice, George?\ was the next question of the affectionate creature as she crept doser. and closer. \ West Albany ? \ exclain1ed Brown. ''Yes, West Albany. Surely you are one of the West Albany Browns·?\ Could it be possible ; was this after all only a hor- ' rible n1istake ? \ Not I,\ he answered, springing to his feet, \ I '1n fron1 Cohoes.\ \Cohoes ! \ she yelled. \Wretch ! scoundrel! ! '' Her indignation at the thought of her trifled affections found vent in one word, \Pa! 1 ! \ . Brown tlnclerstood the situation perfectly, but at the sa1ne ti1ne he was a little flurried. He proceeded to '\light out,\ but in doing so he ran into three closets before finding the door into the halL He found it about the san1e tin1e the \old man \ did. There was a little confusion for the 1non1ent, then Brown broke away and tnade for the front door. He reach~d tha:t, too, about the sa1ne tin1e the old gentle- n1an did, and consequently there was so1ne n1ore con- fusion. Before long, however, he had the door open, and before long he reposed upon the sidewalk. Police1nan No. x 14, standing upon the corner, wit- nessed Brown's sudden and rapid leap. He went to 1 l r c; t i '

THE CONCORDIENSIS. his assistance and helping him to his feet, he asked hiln \what's the matter?\ ''Sold,\ said Brown, with a sickly smile playing about the corners of his 1nouth, and without further explanatiop he cast one painful glance upon Cordelia's : nome and walked as rapidly away as his b~uised body 1 would allow in_the direction of tl1e college. : ·------------ ---- THE STORY OF UNION'S IDOL.* '' WHY, Horror, hast thou come, · Far from thy native home, With lips apart, but dumb, So fiercely staring? Speak, 0 thou hideous beast ! Speak, Monster of the East ! \ I cried and trembling ceased, Awed by my daring. Then from the fearful form, As when the rising storm Mutters its dread alarm In distant thunder, Rose a half stifled roar; The fiendish look it wore, More fiendish than before, Filled me with wonder. And its two fiery eyes Gleamed like the darkened skies, When the heat lightning flies Far in the distance. And a wild glance it gave, As lions from their cave Glare on a hunter brave, Roused to resistance. \ 0, thou presumptuous one, Would I could gulp thee 'down ! It would not half atone For what I suffer. Yet I must answer thee, For what thou 'st done to me May thy life's pathway be Rougher and rougher ! \Well since I must proceed, Listen and give good heed, Lest my torn heart shall bleed As I speak, vainly. No heathen god am I, And vvould 'st thou question \vhy Then I thus meet thine eye Rude and ungainly? \ Not fifty years ago, By the great Hoangho, In heating of its flow, Lived an engraver. An image maker he, Carving so skilfully That e'en nobility Gave him its favor. \ Once, when upon his bed He'd laid his weary head, And every care had fled, Banished by slumber, He seemed to fly away *Pres. Potter, several years ago, brought from Egypt a ve::ry quaint and 1 valuable idol and placed it at the entrance to the college groves. Toward where the gates of day On cloudy hinges sway, Leagues without number. \Till in a foreign land, Breathless, he takes his stand, Puzzled to understand The scene before him. As wolves a deer surround, \Vhen, prostrate on the ground, Helpless, he gazes round, While they howl o'er him. \Twenty youths, cruel-eyed, Thus press on every side, And \Vith rude taunts deride, One on a rahle, Who, as their shouts he hears, Is filled with suddei1 fears, And to refrain from tears Scarcely is able. \All trembling from the sight, The dreamer woke in fright, And on that very night, By torches blazing Carved at his work away, Till, at the dawn of day, There, all complete, I lay, Demon of Hazing ! \ Save for his heightened fame, Vainly he carved my frame; Those who to purchase came, Others selected. For from my presence dread Each one in terror fled ; None. to me bowed his head, I was neglected. \Till o'er the billowy sea I was brought finally, And placed beneath the tree That towereth over. Then first upon my ear Fell what I longed to hear. \'t: Words like those, low but clear, Of a fond lover. \Oft when at midnight's hour Darkly the heavens lower, While round my leafy bower Thunders are pealing And pelting raindrops fall, Then round Memorial Hall, The sophomores, one and all, Toward me come stealing. \And while there prayers arise Like smoking sacrifice, Gleam my two fiery eyes; As before, never. I in each willing mind Root out what good I find; And as my captives bind, Bind them forever. \Then all compassion lost, Where the white salt is tossed, And lies like heavy frost On neck and shoulder, Or in poor ' freshies' '• room, They swarm his peace to doom, And every day become Fiercer and bolder. \ Shout, ' Hail, ye sophomores ! ' then, Weakest of mortal men; 23

• THE CONCORDIENSIS. Nor in my sight and ken Thus stand dissembling! \ It cried with awful yell, Like to a fiend from hell, And on my face I fell Quaking and trembling. EDWARD T. RooT. MY EXPERIENCE WITH A MESMEBIST. s EYER~L years ago, whiTe returning fron1 n1y He then said that he would first atten1pt to compel n1e to hold a coin between 1ny teeth against nly will, and taking one of the coins he had collt>cted he placed it between n1y teeth and said in a whisper, \ hold on to it like o}d Nick.\ For a 1110111ent I did not know what to do, whether-to un1nask the fraud and be laughed at for 1ny pains, or to be privy to the deceit. . I deter- n1ined to accept the latter alternative, and, therefore, closed n1y teeth as tightly as possible on the coin amid the plaudits of the audience./ Red with shan1e, I de- sired to get away, but could not; and he announced that, s1ince he had been so successful, he would perforn1 a more difficult feat, viz. : placing n1oney in n1y pocket which would burn and con1pel rne to cry out with pain. (As 1noney had always burned in n1y pocket, I had no doubt of its success; but pain heretofore had always been caused by the want of the burning.) He then placed sorne coppers in n1y pocket, and in a second vacation, on a Hudson river night boat, I 1net a schooln1ate who was also hon1eward bound. \Ve sat on an upper deck talking over subjects of 1nutual inter- est, when suddenly we were interrupted by a loud-voiced individual, who, in stentorian tones, announced that Monsieur Jacques Calvinisto, or?- gentleman with son1e other such nan1e, the great Australian mind-reader and prestidigitator would, for the a1nusen1ent of the passen- gers, display his world-renowned powers of ventrilo- quism, mesmerisn1 and sleight-of-hand at eight o'clock ~in the n1ain saloon. When it approached that tin1e, we, together with a nun1ber of passengers, went into the n1ain saloon and took up positions near the cele- brated antipode. · whisper told n1e to 1nove my li1nbs and say it burns. He introduced himself with the customary remarks about desiring to enable the con1pany to while away an hour or two which rnight hang heavily on their hands, and said that after his entertainment he would pass around the hat, not so much to procure the root as to \ enable the passengers to show their generosity. He I then con1menced his entertain1nent with a number of \ tricks, which he perfonned quite creditably~ and gave evidence of his ability as a ventriloquist to the amuse- ment of the entire co1npany, and after announcing he would n1esn1erize one of the spectators, he took up a collection a l' Italien. The spectators, anxious to see one of their number 1nesn1erized, gave generously. After he had stored away the last copper, with a sigh that spoke volu1nes, he prepared to select a fit subject on who1n to operate. Unfortunately I- why was I ever born {in the words of son1e classical author, or rather translator), for as soon as his eye alighted on 1ny innocent countenance, he beckoned 1ne into the charmed circle. I disliked to refuse and thus destroy the pleasure of the evening ; accordingly I offered lny- self as a martyr and advanced to 1ny doom. With a look of evident satisfaction on his face that he had obtained such a willing victiln, he commenced to ex- patiate on the mysteries of 1nesrnerism, and after pass- ing his hand over rny face and using his eyes to his own evident satisfaction, he n1ade the happy announce- ment that he had a subject whom he could control. Ashamed of the part I was playing, I did as I was told and acted far better than I could otherwise have done. At last freed I returned to n1y chum, who, with wonder- ing, asked did it burn. vVhether this is the experience of n1ost persons supposed to be n1es1nerizecl, I leave to the decision of my readers. PANDI. LOST NAMES. A BACHELOR'S REVERY. [\ vVhat's in a name?\- Romeo and Juliet. J Q H ! the power of a name, when 'tis linked 'With a love, In the intricate chain that our memory 'Neaves· Ah ! who can the mystic enchantment remove ' Which one little word on our after-life leave~ When lost with a loss which no future retriev~s? In the spring-time of love, when the violets charm Where the rose and the lily would later seem ta~1e · 'Neath the soft April shovvers, ere the dark thunder storm Of a passion ill-starred, with its grief ... and its shame, Hath burst on our head-how we worship a name ! How it ~in~s in ?ur ears; how it dwells on our lips! ~ow 1t smks m our heart-to the throne of its power! Is It n1.omently lost? 'Tis a bee, and it sips, In that transient oblivion from some unseen flower The honey of love for the next blissful hour. ' But when love's sober autumn hath come to the soul And the heart's shadowed vale is with fallen lea~es strewn· Many-hued, yet not gay-how the names that once stole ' Into thought with a welcome, in love's rosy June, Only deepen the shades that have fallen too soon ! Unbidden they climb the light stairs of the mind And lightly they tap at the heart's bolted cloo/ We may ope it or ~at-they an entrance can find, And slyly cr~ep m (where enthroned of yore), Then play hide-and-seek on the rickety floor.

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. They bring us their roses, they bring ·us their thorns, Which are neither so bright nor so sharp as of old; We smile at their antics, though dread their returns, As a mother who fro·wns, yet forbeareth to scold, On the frolicsome darlings that people her fold. In my cell, friend-forsaken, forgotten and lone, 'Mid the wrecks uf Ambition's once proudly wrought schem.es; Airy castles in ruins, by .Fortune o'erthrown, The dust of dead hopes and the ashes of dreams, Must I yet and forever but cherish these themes? ·• A. B. BISHOP. WHAT THE CONCORDIENSIS WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. H OW n1any seniors will take drill? When the base-ball nine are going in the \Gy1n?\ vVhat students are in the habit of borrowing the coal belonging to THE CoNCORDIENSIS? I ! heard on the subject since. At the earliest opportu- 1 nity, however, we hope to see this n1atter pushed ahead. Our field -day exercises, all things considered, sur- passed the expectations of the most enthusiastic. Though a clouded sky and cold wind proved rather disagreeable at the cotntnencetnent, it was unnoticed in a short ti1ne in the exciten1ent attending the various events. In the first event, the half-n1ile race, five contestants \toed the n1ark,\ and at the word \go \ were off, Higson taking the lead, and Long bringing , up the rear. Higson continued to lead during the first quarter, but Long,. gradually forging ahead, took first, which he kept until the beginning of the last eighth, when Randall, who had evidently been play- ing, let hin1self out, and with his long, swinging stride \Vhere the best looking girls go to church? i * I easily won in 2.26. The next event, throwing the base ball, proved a genuine surprise. Neagle, though unequalled in grace, ease and precision of delivery, was out-distanced by Fletcher, the distances being, in feet, 338 and 349 r-6 respectively. These are ren1arkably What Prof. Ashy did to the fellow that called hin1 a i darn crank? · Have you paid your subscription? Who is the best looking girl in Dorp? \Vho started the idea of wearing knee-breeches, spring tern1 ? vVho will be on the joint debate? \Vill Lieut. Hubbell be a success? \Vho went horne to vote? \Vhat blows pieces of slate so often into the key- hole of Prof.· Ashn1ore's door? When the U. C. Senate will pass a bill? Who caught the falling star :rhe other night at the show? vVhe was trying to catch her ? SPORTS. AMHERST'S B. B. expenses the past season were 1f, I , 5 7 7 ·5 8 · Foot-ball is striving hard for first place in college sports. In a gan1e between Dartn1outh and Willian1s, the former ca1ne off second best.\ Yale has a record of 134 goals and 104 touch- downs, to 2 goals and 4 touch-downs. good throws, being unequalled, so far as we have learned fro1n the exchanges, by any college during the , past season. The roo yd. dash, in which Heatley took first place and Philip second, and the 220 yd. dash,. in which they changed places, Philip con1ing in first and Heatley second, were extretnely exciting, Heatley's success in shorter distances arising fro1n his superior ability in starting. The rope-pull proved son1ewhat unsatisfactory, more , exciten1ent being produced by the \kicking\ pre- vious to the contest than .by the contest itself. We would suggest that hereafter, to avoid all such unse~n1- ly jangling, it be previously decided beyond dispute who shall pull and who shall not. The final event, the consolation race, won by Per- kins, '85, was 100 yds. instead of so yds, as stated in 1 our report last month. LOCALS. N OVEl\IIBER. Thanksgiving is at hand. Challenges to foot-ball have been received fron1 two colleges, with the effect of arousing a tem.porary inter- , est in the ga1ne here. Tea1ns were placed in the field : for practice, and a comn1ittee appointed to select frotn ! these a representative eleven ; said co1nn1ittee having ! power to accept or decline challenges. Unfortunately, however, rainy weather setting in nothing has been 1 Pay in your subscriptions at once. vPannenter, '84, is studying law in Troy. Many of the students went hotue to vote. All College exercises were suspended on Tuesday, Nov. 6. There is some talk of fonning a Shakesperean club.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. The freshrnen have elected Marvin historian of their class. Richard W. Dent, '83, will teach this winter in the suburbs. President Potter has returned to the city after a short absence. Much to the delight of the sophon1ores, Prof. Alex- ander gave the1n a two-days' \bolt.\ The freshtnen are vigorously at work developing ' used in religion ? \ Soph C.-'~ It is applied to the commander of the salvation arn1y.'' Frank Potter, brother of President Potter, has been paying a brief visit to \ Old Union \ and friends in the city. Mr. Potter is at present en.1ployed on the staff of the New York Hera! d. The new class roon1s in the Washburne building are growing in favor with both students and professors, in consequence of their convenience and comfort. their pedal extretnities with the foot balL Since the news of Lieut. Hubble's arrival in the city Mitchell, '85, is recovering fron1 his sickness, and has reached the ears of the freshmen, they 1nay be will soon be able to attend to his studies. seen with anxious faces inquiring into the particulars of We understand that quite a nutnber of juniors and the lnilitary drill. seniors are desirous of taking n1ilitary drill. Judging fron1 the space passed over, the present Lieut. Hubble is 111aking preparations to give in- junior class must have an unusualinental capacity for structions in physical culture at an early date. mechanics, having completed double the space usually Owing to the fair weather and the excellence of the accomplished by classes in the same mnount of time. track, the field-day exercises were a success. The faculty have determined upon the precise dates Prof. in Rhetoric-\ What does 'heterogeneous' of the Thanksgiving and holiday recesses. The Thanks- mean?\ Soph. C.-\ It n1eans congla1neranic.\ giving recess extends from Nov. 28 to Dec. 4· The At a Ineeting of the freshillan class held Nov. 9 , in holiday vacation co1n1nences Dec. 2 r, '83, and ends the laboratory, E. T. Root was elected class poet. 1 Jan. 7, '84. · The second examination for conditions will take 1 The n~tice ~f the junior cla~s election was inadvert- place Saturday, Nov. 1 7 , in the Inathelnatical rootn. j entl~ o1n1tted 111 our last: .Their o~cers are ras follows ~ Tl . h b 1 d d !\. h President, J. B. Duffie ' VICe-president, J. r. Morey) 1e carnpus as een a most eserte 10r t e past W H V 1 . G W B h d . secretary . . aug 111 · treasurer . . ar y t · few days, 111 consequence of the unpleasant weather. B B d' ' T J D 1 ' ' ' ]. H. Veeder, '84, has just returned froin his western tour to Dakota. Veeder speaks in glowing tern1s of the West. Son1e enthusiastic freshmen collected wood and in- dulged their patrotis1n in a large bonfire on the night of election. vV e n1ade a mistake in our last in regard to the nan1e of our new Prof. in Mathematics. It is Chaplin, not Cheplin. A good way to raise money.= Elect the senator from Virginia president pro ton. of the U. C. Senate and . charge adn1ission. I The military code is in the office awaiting signatures. 1 Step in and sign it. A san1ple uniforn1 is also on I exhibition there. I I The College glee club lent its assistance to the : bazaar held at Union Hall, and was one of the n1ost interesting features. Prof. Perkins took the seniors and juniors to visit Troy's Iron and Steel Works on Thursday, Nov. 8th. · 1'he visit was a pleasant and profitable one. I Prof. in French to class-\ How is the word general! . . 1rector, . . e aney. Prof. H. E. Webster, forn1erly of this college, now of Rochester, has ret\].rned from Europe and paid a visit to the College on his way to assume his new duties. He see1ns in the best of health and we wish him the best of success at Rochester. Changes are constantly being made about the C.ol- lege property. The vacant lot on the south side of East Liberty street, which includes the cluster of pines beyond Nott Terrace, is fast disappearing before the shovel and the axe, and will soon be reduced to a level with the street. One of our professors, the other day, while in the act of taking out his handkerchief, accidentally drew out a long woolen garter of the type usually worn by ladies. From this we infer that the gentleman, though a bachelor, is a }(night of the Garter. Prof. in Rhetoric-\ Suggestive language, though trivial, is often very forcible. For instance, if I should say that I had ridden a hard-riding horse for a long ti111e and took 111y meals off the 1nantle shelf for the next wee}{, you would know what I n1eant.\ On Sunday afternoon, the 4th, eight students set out

THE CONCO·RDIENSIS . .. to walk to the Helder bergs and back. The .tramp ':as I promises lo become a source of. muc~ ~leasure to its a most pleasant one, the farmers by the ways1de setting i members. AJ[: students who desue to JOin are request- it up ~n royal style. Tlie party reached Schenectady I ed to do so a.t once. I on the next Tuesday, full-of amusing stories relating ! The read~ng room is a thing of the past. The boys to their journey. ; have turned their attention to foot--baH and other The Christ Church fair was ,well attended by stu- ! .athletic spoFts, and the money hitherto collected for dents. On Friday evening ~r. Delaney, •s 4 , and Prof. i the readin~. roo.m is now devoted t~ these. They Wells, of Albany, gave a reading. The laughable farce now have h~tle time to read, and sufficient matter can of Box and Cox was presented the following evening, be procured fL'Oln the library of the College and news with Messrs. Benedict, Stanton and Hayes in the cast. roon1s of the city. The History of the Schenectady The fair was a success, a handso 1 ne sum being re- 1 Patent of ~h:.e Dutch and English Times, is the nan1e alized.. of the wotlt recently published by Prof. Jonathan Pearson, a11d edited by JV[aj. MacMurray. It is a large quarto volume, well bound, and contains four hundred and fi.fty pages of interesting reading. Inci- dents of tl1e great massacre of 1692, characteristic descriptions of the people, the ancient city's charter, and Inany otl1er relics of bygone days, together with the engravings, tnake the work particularly interesting to every ScRenectadian. The book shows that great pains and labor have been taken on the part of the On the night of Saturday the Ioth, the P. D. Q. Eating Club held their first. meeting of this year in their su1nptuous banquet hall in south section pf North Col- lege. Every men1ber was present. H. V. N. Philip was elected president after a noisy contest. Mr. Kemp, '84, was decidedly the orator of the evening. A boun- teous repast, consisting of all the delicacies of the season, was enjoyed by aH. Now doth the student cease to serenade his girl be- author, and -will undoubtedly be appreciated by every neath the windows of her boudoir, and to walk with her inhabitant cf Scheneetady. in the garden, and to sit with her in the hatnrr1ock, for i · --- - -~- -- -- - --~------- -~=-~~~-~--= :_--.: the old gentleman has returned fron1 the oil regions, I WHAT HAPPENETH IN THE COLLEGE WORLD. and the nights are cold. Instead, he is already insti- I tuting measures for tete-a-t~teing in the house. He , COL?MBIA.-The f?o_t-bctl: tean'l ~s badly deinor~- may be seen to treat the big brother and old gentle- \ hzed, and the Acta Is doing all1t can to n1ake It man whenever an occasion offers. Courtship is still a 1 brace. In t:he last game with Stevens the resu.lt was, dangerous pastime. i Stevens, two goals, three touch-downs; Columbia, one I safety touc:ll-do\vn. One night not Jong ago a number. of students visited Tl Gl 1 b · 't bl d ·t fi t b 1e ee c u , minus I s war er, Ina e 1 s rs pu - Schumacher's and partook of oyster stews. On going 1 . th' t St · H 11 0 t tl IC appearance IS year a e1nwa y a on c . 2 7 1. out, one of them a senior, who happened to_ be last, I Th .c 11 · d b tl 1 d' e per1onnance was we receive · y 1e arge au 1- grabbed a handful of choice candy and hastily made t . ence presell . his exit. 'iVhat was his clistnay when, after walking a : ., . . . h t d . t t d' th t h h d 1 .c:t h' b 1 - 1 The Ac ia s pnnters have been on the stnke, which s or IS ance, o Iscover a e . a e11 IS um re a . b l · d H d't t d c t th 't catastrophe somewhat delayed the last Issue. Oxford e 1In . e me I a e 10r a. mon1en upon e SI ua- h . . d tion and then braced back into the lion's den. It has caps ave entuely disappeare · not yet been learned whether he helped hi1nself a sec- ond time or not. WrLLIAMS.-The Argo is the first of our contem- i poraries to notice the new CoNCORDIENSIS, which it On Wednesday, Oct. 31 , a nu 1 nber of students as- \welcomes as a worthy representative of Union.\ sembled in the Lab. and fonned a society to be called The College catalogue is just out. Each class shows the U. C. Photo Club. After the adoption of a set of an increase, except the sophomore. The total nun1ber by-laws, C. A. ICitts was elected president; H. Z. of studentsii~ attendance at vVilliams is 275. Pratt, secretary; Prof. Perkins, treasurer. In an in- A tennis tournament lately took place in order to forn1al talk Prof. Perkins assured the n1en1bers that by develop the strongest players, so that the College n1ay a litttle practice they would become effi.:ient ~hoto- \ be well represented in the spring contests. The Argo graphers. On Nov. 6 a11d 20 Prof. Perkins delivered 1 says '87's attendance at prayer n1eetings, instead of lectures on printing and taking the negative which decreasing, :if anything, is increasing. '87's of Union were listened to with evident interest. This club take exa1npJe.

THE CONCO-RDIENSIS. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.-A dinner was given to Lord Coleridge in the chapel on the evening of I Oct. 16th. l\1any pro1ninent 1-nen were present, among : whon1 was Professor Coppee, who responded to the ! toast ''Literature.\ The Field day was a fizzle. The weather was bad, and there were several walk-overs. The roo yards and 2 2 o yards dashes were n1ade in eleven and a half seconds and twenty--five and three- fifth seconds, respectively. DARTMOUTH.-· The Dart1nozttlz points out to the fre~hmen the folly of working 1nerely for marks. It th~nks the n1arking systetn radically wrong and directly responsible for the different 111ethods of deception prac- ticed by students. The Darilnouth also pitches into the Williams journals in a way that is energetic,. to say the least. Foot-ball is bootning. The co1n1nittee for raising a memorial to the late Prof. Stanley J evous, the brilliant logician and econo- lnist, have deterrnined to establish a studentship of $5oo a year, the holder of which is to devote himself to econon1ic or statistical research. 'fhe Wake Forest Student, in reviewing THE CoN- CORDIENsrs, says, \Union University should be proud of her :1nagazine.\ MILITAHY DRILL. LIEUT.~ HUBBLE 1net the sophomore cl~ss in the · chapel, Thursday, November 8, and, 1n a few brief ren1arks, set forth his intentions as follows : The D;,nion College Cadets, so called, have degenerated into a deplorable wreck. It is his intention to reorganize then.1 so as to place them on an equality with the cadets AMHERST.-· -The student scientifically discusses \vhy a girl cannot play tennis. One reason laid down is, that her ribs are too s1nall. A1nherst, Harvard, Yale, Brown, Trinity and W es- leyan participated in the tennis tourna1nent at Hartford. Harvard won, with Yale second. · : of other n1ilitary schools. He then read a short quo- tation to show that n1any people have an erroneous : idea of n1ilitary drill. It was not to be considered :On October I 3th, the corner stone of the Pratt gy1n- nasiun1 was laid. The new \ Gym \ will contain a billiard room. LAFAYETTE.-'84 has won the base-ball champion- ship. President Cattel, D.D., retires, and Rev. J mnes H. M. K.nox takes his place. The .College possesses a cornet band of fifteen pieces. ·Come up, friends, and play the Mozart orchestra for a pnze. 1nerely as so n1uch physical culture; Its object was to i prepare 1nen for service, if they should be called upon I I in after life. He will endeavor to procure two field- i pieces so that the boys can have practice in that branch of the service. The drill is to be purely optional. A short code will be fran1ed, and none will be allowed to drill unless they sign this. He thinks it will be better to change the nan1e of the corps in order to avoid the stign1a attached to the old nan1e. Each man is to provide himself, as soon as possible, with a uniform, or at least part of it. The uniform he d~sires to intro- duce consists of a blue navy ·coat and cap, with light RuTGERS.-The 'Iargttm presents a very pleasing I gray trousers, the whole fon11ing a neat unifonn for appearance. There has been trouble between the 1 one of its kind. In case of any difficulty arising be- students and faculty. A student in good standing has tween 1nen in the ranks, the aggrieved party is to com- been suspended for a 1nost trivial offense. Much in- pli:tin of it to the proper person after drill, when he will dignatio11 is. felt. There see1ns to be a growing desire see that the affair is settled a1nicably. The freslunen to have 1:noral philosophy stricken out of the scientific are to fonn a separate company, to be. officered by course. : juniors or sophotnores. All officers are to be elected I VASSAR.--- The Miscellany deplores the fact that ! by the 1nen, with the provision that they can be de- y assar is the only fe1nale institution which slings the ! posed if found to qe incotnpetent. Co1npanies will be editorial pen. fonned as soon as a sufficient ntunber of names are The nu1nber of students is unusually large. enrolled. The lieutenant is putting forth an earnest MADISON.-Tennis is becoming n1ore and 1nore -popular every day. Field day was a complete suc- -cess. No records, however, were broken. The 'Seniors ..are turning out full beards. PRINCETON.- The students attended the Luther ~elebration at Princeton en masse. '85 has formed a Shakespeare club. · effort to rescue the nan1e of the Union College ,Cadets J from oblivion, and we hope he will be supported by the students. The Albany Evening J'ottrnal speaks of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS as \ spicy in matter and bright in typo- graphy.\

THE CON'CORDIENSIS. 29 PE-RSONALS. [Communications concerning any of the alumni wit! he gladly received and inserted in these co1umns.J ~o. Dr. Hickok, for a number of years tae honored president of our College, is · stiH in vigorous rnind, a1though he has reached the age of eighty-four. He resides at An1herst, Mass. /.'52. Rev. Francis B. Hall is pastor of a church :at Plattsburgh, N. Y. /'6o. Edward H. Ripley is engaged in turning 1narble into money in the fine quarries of Rutland, Vt. J;65. Marcus Hun is a lawyer in Albany. /'66. Edward We1nple, congressman for this district, is about to. start for Washington. }67. Robert Payne is practicing law in New York and Brooklyn, having offices in both places. He was the Republican candidate for district attorney of ICings county at the last election, and was defeated by only a small1najority. }68. Edward Schenck is practicing law in New York city. ,.;{7 2. Rev. Mr. Countennine is 1neeting 'With good suc- cess at the Sixth Presbyterian church ~in Albany. I '73· Wn1. P. Rudd was married to Miss Aimee Pearson Allen, at Albany, Oct. 25, r883. y''78. Fletcher Vosburg is in the insurance business in Albany. -l78. J ohi1 C. Penny is connected :with tl1e treasury .department in Washington. V'8o. R. J. Landon has opened a law office in town. '82. Hargrave is in Allegheney, Penn. . '82. Waddell recently rnade us a visit. '83. J. Cantine is at his home in Stone Ridge. '83. Hmnlin is in Beaverdam, \Vis. V'83. Countermine is at Princeton Theological Sen1- 1nary. '83. W. C. Allen, a graduate of J\!Iaflison, js taking the laboratory course at Unjon. 08 5. Eugene Parsons is professor of Latin a11d ·Greek in Iowa College. 1/'·s 5. .;Langdon is engineering in Pennsylvania. '8 5. Richards will probably return to c()llege next tenn. '8 7. Sweet has been obliged to leave college on .account of weak eyes. .083. J. H. Sand and J. R. Bolton are studying medicine in New York city. Albany Law School. KEEP YOUR PAPERS. WE would suggest to the students that i~t would be well to keep each nurnber of THE CoNCORDIENSIS • until our course at the Law School is completed, and · then have then1 bound for future reference. We are ; together just long enough to get well acquainted and · interested in each other, and then we part, each going ! ' his own way to engage in the battle of life, but all carry- · ing with us pleasant n1emories of o~tr student life. Ti1ne will work great changes in us all. So1ne will : fill the highest stations in life and be borne along upon , the high tide of fortune, while others will struggle along 1 the lower paths, but to all will cotne tin1es of trial and perplexity, tin1es when W(3 will long to live again our student life, and then to be able to put our hands upon a volun1e that will bring before us the friends of our school days, will be to banish discouragement and ann us anew for the conflict of life. DOINGS OF THE EUREKA MOOT COUHT CLUB. W HILE some of our clubs do not seen1 to attract the attention and sustain the interest which was 1nanifested at the ti1ne of organization, the Eureka is an exception to this general decline. A description of two of the late 1neetings will show the character of their work. The meeting held on Wednesday even- ing, October 24, was called to order by President Ballard, at 7 : 30. After the reading of the 1ninutes and transaction of : the prelin1inary business, President :Ballard surrendered • the chair to Mr. Gifford, who acted as justice during the trials of the evening. 1'he first case on the calen- dar was that of Selsn1er vs. Young ; Counselor Paddock ! appearing for plaintiff, and Counselor Garland for de- i fendant. 1 Counselor Paddock conducted the case with his ac- : custon1ed zeal, and, had there been a jury trial, would ; certainly have carried the jury by the force of his argu- 1 : ments. Counselor Garland made an eloquent plea for the defendant, and gave a clear exposition of the law _governing the case. The opinion of Mr. Spalding showed deep research and careful investigation, and decided the case in favor of the defendant. The opinion was sus~ained by the decision of Judge Gifford . The next case, that of Briggs vs. Tupper, was argued 1 by Counselor Sin1onds on part of the plaintiff, and J Counselor Rutherford appeared for the defendant.

30 THE CO'NCORDIENSIS. The case was well argued by both counselors, after · The toasts of the evening and responses were as which Judge Gifford decided it in favor of defendant. , follows : At the meeting held October 31, Mr. Gould was \Class ofr8S3·\-Worthington Frothinghan1, '53· called upon to act as chief justice. The case of Piper \Class of r863.\-Judge John C. Nott, '63. vs. Holt was argued by Counselor McMahan for plain- \Class of r873·\-Edward M. Rankin, '73· · tiff, and Counselor MeN atnara for defendant, and a \Class of r883.\-Irving W. Cole, president, '83. decision given in accordance with the facts of the case. \Union University.\-· ·Rev. E. N. Potter, president The case of Peck vs. Veezy was next called. Coun- Union ·university. selor Moffett appeared £or plaintiff, and Davidson for \ Medical College.\-· Dr. San1uel B. Ward. defendant. \The Clergy.''-Rev. Wesley R. Davis. Cot~nselor Davids.on charged ~is opponent with I ''The Press.''-Hon. St. Clair McKelway, editor secrettng a book wh1ch was matenal to the defence, : Albany Argtts. but after considerable professional sparring the court 1 \Our Alma Mater.\-Hon. Horace E. Smith, Dean succeeded in getting the machinery under control, l of Law School. I and after argu1nent a verdict for defendant was an- i \The Alumni Association.\-Hon. Chas. A. Fowler. • I nounced. It is now proposed that a thorough and perfect or- Mr. Ballard then gave a short biographical sket~h of ganization of the association be formed, and that the the life of Daniel Webster, which was listened to with secretary obtain as full information as possible concern- interest, after which the rneeting adjourned. ' ing the residence and legal history of the alumni, to be incorporated in the annual report to be sent to each THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION. IN response to a call issued in April, an enthusiastic meeting of the graduates of the Albany Law School was held on the afternoon of the twenty-fifth of May, 1883, and an organization of the alumni effected. A large ntunber of the classes were represented, :tnd a general desire evinced that the proposed association be formed. A short constitution was adopted, and the following officers elected : President, Hon. Charles A. Fowler, Kingston, N.Y.; vice-presidents, Wheeler H. Peckham, New York city ; Miles Beach, Troy, N. Y.; Irving Browne, Albany, N. Y. ; Hon. Harris M. Plaisted, Augusta, Maine ; Jacob R. Custer, Chicago, Illinois; Hon. Amasa J. Parker, Jr., Albany, N.Y.; Edward Wade, Albany, N. Y.; \Vorthington Frothinghmn, Albany, N. Y.; Hon. Dennis Spencer, California ; Marcus Sackett, Buffalo, N. Y.; secretary, Charles H. Mills, Albany, N.Y.; treasurer, John V. L. Pruyn, Jr., Albany, N.Y.; executive comn1ittee, Willia1n Hollands, West Troy, N. Y.; Hadley Jones, Little Falls, N. Y.; Eugene Burlingame, Albany, N. Y. On motion, it was resolved that all who have com- municated with the secretary, desiring to have their names enrolled, and all who shall so signify during this year, be elected members. In the evening of the sa1ne day, a banquet was held at the Stanwix Hall, which was thoroughly enjoyed by those present, and many old friendships were renewed and new ones formed. men1ber. Since the annual meeting the secretary has sent out ' nearly three thousand circulars, directed to the gradu- ates at the addresses contained in the catalogues. The response has been h.earty, and all unite in a wish that .the association may prove a success. It is desirable that all who intend to join will send their nmnes, place of residence, class and offices, if any held by them ; and inclose one dollar so that the secretary may con1plete his list early in the spring and 1 report. , · We expect a large gathering of the alumni at the next annual meeting, and especially hope that the classes of 1854, 1864, 1874 and 1884 will be on in I full place. Of course many at a distance will not be I able to be with us, but we will keep thetn thoroughly posted, and shall be glad to hear from them at any time. \ BRIEFS. T HERE are now fifty-five names on the class-roll. Bushnell has left for a short visit to the west. ' The examination is fast approaching. I Prof. Smith began his course of lectures on Sales on J the 6th of November. _ j A nutnber of new faces have appeared in the lecture ! room since the fall term opened. I j The interest in the Moot courts is unabated, judg- ; ing. fro1n the large attendance. I

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 3I Several students went hon1e to vote at the late elec- tion, but all returned the next day. We are glad to see our friend Sampson back again after being out on account of sickness. A witty member of the class says, \A good lawyer is not a necessity, for necessity knows no law.\ This tern1 ends on the z 3rd. Several of the boys have shaved .since the \ Lily \ has come back. . We began the study of Real Property, under the direction of Prof. McCall, on the 3oth of October. Prof. Stnith closed his very cotnplete and thorough course of lectures on the law of Contracts on the 5th of the present month. At a late 1neeting of the Sn1ith club it was decided not to be advisable to give woman the right of suffrage. This tnust be accepted as conclusive. We have thus far, this ten11, received several calls from students from Union College ::lnd the Merlical College, and we are always glad to entertain then1. A n.1an rushed excitedly into a lawyer's office, not long since, and said: \A 1nan has tied a loop in n1y horse's tail; can I do anything about it?\ \Yes; go and untie it.\ Fee, $5. An old lawyer once well said that the n1ost trouble- some clients are, a young wo1nan who wants to 1narry, a 1narried woman who wants to unn1arry, and an old 1naid who does not know what she wants. The interest in the Law clubs seen1s to be abating son1ewhat. This should not be so, and we hope to see then1 thoroughly reorganized and well attended next term, as great benefit is to be derived fron1 them. Cases were argued in Moot court last week by Messrs. Emerson, Foote, McMahan, Moffet, McNatnara, Mor- gat1, Mudge and O'Sullivan. This week Messrs. Samp- son} Pratt, Rutherford, Sloan, Spaudling, Frank Sn1ith, Scotf and Sitterly will speak. The next number of THE CoNCORDIENSIS will con- tain the opening chapter of the history of the Albany Law School fron1 its foundation to the present tin1e. This is intended to supply a long-felt need, as there is no co1nplete history of it extant; and we hope that those interested in the Law School will give it a wide circulation. GRADUATION SONG OF THE CLASS OF '83. SURCHARGED with Law, we proudly go Forth from these halls with clean \diplo.: \ :Hearts beating high, with flag unfurl'd, We send our challenge round the world; Oyez, Oyez, throughout the nation, Giv,e ear to this our proclamation : CHORUs--We're going to practice :law, Law, going to practice law; I.---a---v .. 7 ---Law. For Cupid's court, and Hymen's bo,wers, \Ve '11 plume our wings, and test our powers; A gallant suit, with vigor pressed, Must crown with joy our ardent quest; Then maidens fair, without ado, Just yield your hearts, and-fortunes, too . Ye jilted maids of forty years, Abate your grief, and dry your tears; We '11 teach old chaps of twenty-one, That breaking hearts is costly fun ! A suit for breach-· the game is sure- For broken hearts a sovereign cure. Ye corporations plethoric, We go for you in \double quick; \ Be it to sue, or to defend, Our meed, a generous dividend; Dilute, combine, do what you will, It brings a grist to legal mill. Poor cuckhold husbands, sore distressed, And wives defrauded, or oppressed, We offer service at your need, Divorce to gain with railroad speed; 'Twill cost a trifle, to be sure; But mauger cost you '11 want the cure. Ho, all ye suitors, now 's your chance, We '11 play the tunes for you to dance; Keep step and time with measure true, A lively jig we p.romise you; But dance who will, or dance who may, The dancer 1nust the fiddler pay. Albany l\1edical College. THE AMUSEMENTS OF MEDICAL STUDENTS. · \Let him not attempt to regulate other pe0ple's pleasures by i his own tastes.\-Helps. I J T is not pleasant to become a censor to any indi- vidual, or to give advice to any class of individuals as to how they should employ their 1noments of leis- ure. Indeed, what may seem right to one 1nay seen1 wrong to another, and thus it is said that no one has a right to advise anyone hut himself. Nevertheless, occasions arise when one feels called upon to express his views upon 1natters and things, and, although those views may be somewhat hackneyed and old, yet fre- quently n1uch good results fron1 a repetition of well ! established truths. An1ong students generally, and especially an1ong rnedical students, the idea seems to prevail that, in order to recogn1ze good ~nd evil, it 1 s necessary to have experienced the evil as well as the good. At least this is the logical inference after having observed the way in which the majority of students spend their

32 THE CONCORDIENSIS. I leisure 1noments. Medical students, although they are \ habit, but it also unfits one for the active duties of life. supposed to know more about the iaws of health and j \A soul sodden with pleasure\' is a sad sight,. still disease than any other class of stude·nts, seem to be more sad when it is the soul of a young n1an. just start- particularly liable to contract habits and 1naladies ing in life. which are 1nost terrible in their consequences. It should be borne in n1incl that rnorality is as 1nuch To a student in a large city there is no time so 1 a scientifi:c necessity as it is a religious one. Hence it dangerous as his time of leisure-· his time of recrea- ' follows that we, who belong to the scientific side of tion. Students generally seek their an1usement in the the house, cannot afford to engage in any amusen1ent early part of the evening, so that from 7. 30 P. M. until 1 which does not partake of a n1oral nature. What, 1nidnight is their 1nost perilous tin1e. If students could then, shaH I say of :revelings in lager-beer gardens, be led to substitute for the questionable mnusements concert saloons and bagnios? These are practices of this period occupations which, beyond doubt, con- opposite to the high character of the 1nedical profes- tained no dangerous elen1ents, how 1nany sighs and sion, let alone that of a gentle1nan. They are wasters regrets would be saved ; how many hlighted hopes of tim.e, 1noney and hope-even of life itself. Those would be replaced by deeds· of honor and dignity ; who engage in these practices will find, when it is too how n1any of the wrecks, that go floating t_hrough the i late, that they have followed a phanto1n 1nore deceitful I world until they stand upon a lee shore, would be 1 than the n1irage of the desert, and n1ore deadly in its 1nassive, dauntless prvws in the 1nidst of the ocean of consequences than the feebled Upuas tree of the life? orient. Of dancing and card playing, I can say but One who writes upon the subject of amusements little. 'fhey 1nay be innocent of then1selves, but those cannot escape the great question: \Shall I attend the i who have an a1nbition, who have a 1nark in life, who theatre or not? \ There has been a great deal of false 1 see l.Jefore then1 a goal to be won, wnl not linger long sentiment and of unjust vituperation wasted upon this ! in the glittering ball-room or tarry at the card-table. I subject. We 1nay rest assured that the drama will be j The practitioner of 111eclicine- and what is true of no better, in an ethical sense, than the people who i the practitioner is true of the student -like the his- patronize it, nor 1nuch in advance of the tin1es in which 1 · trion, is 1nore ?r less con1pelled to forego the pleas- it exists. Shakespeare '3ays that its object is \To hold, . ures of so-called fashionable society; not that society as 't were, the 1nirror up to nature.\ Look around · will not receive then1; on the other hand, society is you and see the life that is to be reflected fro111 the . ever ready to recognize the respectable n1edical man; stage. It is a sad fact, but everyone who frequents ! but a 111an engaged in general practice, fron1 the very places where people congregate together knows that : nature of his occupation, is not able to go into society. I purity of thought and expression are the exception and : For rnany reasons, a 1nedical society JlUlll is not a de- not the rule. How, then, can we expect the n1irror of i sirable na1ne. Again, it is son1ewhat difficult for a this life to be perfectly spotless in its purity? If it ; n1edical 1nan to attend to the de1nands of a general were, it would be false to its purposes. Alas, the fault I practice and, at the same time, hold a leading position is in us and not in the dran1a. One of a pure mind : in club life. For a tnedical specialist, society life n1ay will discard those i1npurities which he finds assailing , not ue so objectionable ; Lut for a general practitioner his eyes and ears, but, on the other hand, one of an i it is certainly not advisable. However, a 1nedical n1an · in1pure habit of thought will absorb all the v_ulgarities is but 1nortal and n1ust have so1ne relaxation- son1e and sn1uttiness and dwell upon them, and they will be mnusement. Muscle fibre cannot contract continually but fuel to the flan1e which is consuming hin1. To the for an indefinite length of tirne ; it n1ust have oppor- medical student an occasional night at the theatre may tunity to recuperate its exhausted power. No n1ore, not be objectionable, rnay, in fact, be beneficial. then, can a n1an hope to go through life without any Dealing daily, as he is, with life and death-becoming 1non1ent~ of leisure. Relaxation is as necessary to habituated to scenes of blood and agony-he may our healthful existence as is exercise. The 1nan who gradually lose those finer qualities of 1nind-sy1npathy never relaxes does not exist. Since this is the case, and pity-and become callous to the sufferings of his , and since, to a certain extent, the 1nedical n1an is cut fellow men. Occasionally, a night at a well-chosen off fron1 society, is it not well for hi111 to live the intel- play n1ay rescue hin1 fron1 this n1uch-to-be-dreacled : lectual Efe? In his 11101nents of leisure is it not well condition. N everthe1ess, habitual theatre -going is i to bec01ne acquainted with general literature ; would reprehensible and unjustifiable ; not only an expensive I not a few hours occasionally passed by the side of the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 33 enchanting strean1 ·of so1n·e a.1ien science he ad van- ,m,et~t- the only true education- self-culture? As tageons? Is ther.e ~ny obje~tion to occasionally read- 1 1 Hamerton has so finely put it : \ Severed fron1 the ing a book of V1rg1l, or Milton, or Dante? Is there vanities of the illusory, you will live with the realities danger in now and then taking up a novel of Scott, or 1 , of knowledge as one who has quitted the painted an essay of Emerson, or, for that 1natter, a volun1e of scenery of the theatre to listen by the eternal ocean the iconoclastic Carlyle? Is it wrong, in a n1on1ent of or gaze at the granite hills.\ leisure, to run over a popular air on piano, flute or }Al\IES P. MARSH, '85. violin? Are any of those things objectionable ; is the~e anyone. who can ~nd any ~~nger in then1 with TH~RE lies before us, in pan1phlet forn1, the op~n­ wh1ch to assail us? Is 1t not posstble to rest one set 1 ng address of Professor John P. Gray, which of faculties of the 1nind by exercising another group? ! is a grand masterpiece of thought drawn fron1 a nr:ind I know that there are those who cannot appreciate the \ rich in years and a ripe experience. The senti1nents authors nan1ed above. Very well, read Capt. Marryat, : expressed are those of a philanthropist and n1oralist. or Bret Harte, or Mark Twain, who are good and His n1anner of delivery is that of one who is thorough- healthy, although not quite so profound. I would say ' ly in love with n1ankind and desirous of doing all the with J\rlunger: \Think with the astronom.er and with good he can while life shall last. l-ie pays an unselfish him whose talk is of n1anures and soils ; with your and n1anly tribute to \ our own beloved Nest or, neighbor and witli hi1n at the antipodes; with lawyer Thon 1 as Hun,\ and says : \I n1ight refer you, gentle- and doctor and minister; with high and low.\ Puzzle men, to n1any nan1es on the roster of the college of your head with Han1i1ton, and 1VIcCosh, and Loche ; men who have n1ade the1nselves pro1ninent, if it was feel sad when you find yourself in Gray's \ Country necessary, to encourage you. I n1ight point yon to dis- Church-yard ; \ laugh at Bret I-Iarte's recital of the tinguished founders and teachers in this school, narnes tricks of \Ah Sin;\ enter into that deep, cahn n1el- fan1iliar in n1edicine, surgery and jurisprudence! T. Ro- ancholy that pervades Goldsn1ith's \Deserted Village;\ 111 eyn Beck, Alden Ma~ch, J mnes H. Annsby, Henry in fact, live the intellectual life. But he who would Green, David McLachlan, Gunning S. Bedford, J an1es shine in the profession of lzis choice n1ust not let these McNaughton, Ebenezer En1n1ons, David M. Reese, things becon1e anything 1nore than an1usen1ents. Medi- Lewis C. Beck, Howard Townse11d, John V. P. Quack en- cine first, literature and art next. Yet it is of far more bush, An 1 os Dean, John D. Lansing, James E. Pon1fret, importance to succeed as a n1an than as a physician. , Edn 1 und R. Peasley, Ira Harris, Henry R. Haskins, He who continually looks at near objects becon1es \ Edward R. Hun, and now Jacob S. Mosher added to n1yopic; so the 1nind, that beholds but one small 1 this honored list. \Vith n1ost of these the speaker has branch of the tree of hu1nan. knowledge, and that at had the honor and pleasure of pfrsonal acquaintance. close range, becon1es warped-1nis-shapen-gets into These were n1en whose character and lives irnparted a rut fron1 which it cannot extract itself. \ It is a rich : vigor and strength to other n1en in their day, and the and va.rious world we are in; we should touch it at as ,· 1 con 1 n 1 unities in which they lived felt safe by their 1nany points as possible.\ presence. Men who added lustre and dignity to the Around us on all sides is the ·world of Looks, of words, ' surgeon, physician and scholar.' \ n1usic, of art, and of science. With the borders of this world alone are we acquainted. This world is open to all those who are willing to give a certain an1ount of tin1e and labor to its exploration. Yearly a vast rnultitude of young rnen drift on in the ever- changing stremn of hun1an life. A few out of this nu1nber turn aside, enter this world, and find an occu- pation for their leisure n1on1ents; which occupation soon becon1es so interesting, so absorbing, that it ceases to be a work and becon1es an a1nuse1nent. \tVill you, reader, be one of these; can you forsake the frivolities and vanities of the life that exists around you and take your place a1nong those few who are really engaged in that greatest because the best an1use- A COLLEGE paper is supposed to represent and · be represented by the students, and any n1atter which pertains to the interests of said students should be advocated or conde1nned by their organ. Hence 1 we take this opportunity of conden1ning a practice 1 which has of late beco1ne a nuisance to a rnajority of the students of the Albany Medical College, and by this nuisance we n1ean the correspondence which daily 1 transpires during the lecture hours. There are two : points to consider in relation to this so-termed nuis- , I ance ; and, first : Has a student the right to transn1it 1 his regards, aspirations, likes or dislikes to his friend

34 THE CONCORDIENSIS. during the n1ajor operations, at the least, and defer his departure until their termination, and thus he will not cause the class to hiss hin1. as he leaves the amphi- on the other side of the a1nphitheatre, or, perhaps, near to him? Certainly he has. But, second: Has he the right, because he wishes son1e one to ''' brace up,\ or perform son1e other deed, the nature of which there is no need of defining here, lo inteifere with the work of a number of men, which is that of\ taking in\ the strean1 of knowledge flowing fro1n the lecturer's n1.ind? No. For we cotne to this College to benefit i ourselves and suffering htunanity by the lectures daily 1 given, and although the passing of a note from one to another may seem a si1nple thing, nevertheless it at- tracts the attention of the student from the lecturer, and when many notes are given one to pass during an hour, 1nuch valuable time is lost. And it is our thought that if these gentlemen who are so fond of corresponding will consider that they are thus a source of annoyance to not only the students, but the pro- fessors, t,hey will out of courtesy refrain. . theatre, and can fronl the surgeon in charge the above request. S INCE we now have the long promised dissecting I roo1n, the question arises, why can not the stu- I dents b~ allowed the use of the College Library, with its vast amount of books, and also, at certain hours, the use of the rooiD itself for a study and reading room. If the College would~ furnish the roon1 and ! warmth, the students ought to be willing to add other 1 reading matter, such as the daily papers. Let the ex- 1 periment be tried, and give those who have no place to go to during noon hours, and those, when not en- gaged with lectures, a place where the time wiH not be lost to the1n, but used in a profitable way. 1Vill not Dr. Tucker assist us in this matter, as he so readily does in everything else he can for the benefit of the students? D R. VAN DERVEER has endeavored in the ab- sence of Dr. Ward to fill his hours as best he could, and has wisely used much of the time in quiz- zing. Now why can not Dr. W. follow the example of Dr. V., and spend sorne tilne of his lecture hour each week, on both subjects, in quizzing the class? We are not anxious to be quizzed, but all must and do admit that it is the best way to learn the subject, and that quizzes are the right thing to have. Let the professors give a thought to the subject. A rf Saturday's clinic, Nov. ro, during a n1ajor opera- tion, Prof. Van Derveer had to request \A little 1nore quiet, if possible, gentlemen!\ If any one is coming to the clinic, let him make up his mind to stay THE action of the junior class in regard to stamping · is printed in another column; and we are pleased to note that there is more quiet of late between and during lectures than formerly. THE sy1npatbies of the studeuts have been called for and sincerdy given on account of the death of Professor Townsend's 1nother, and also of Professor Ward's wife. Surely the grin1 destroyer is determined to make hin1self felt by our faculty this year, there having been three occasions for bereave1nent within as many 1nonths. LOCALS. AT the clinic of November ro, the g1v1ng of an orange by an old lady in the arena to a little boy who feared the exatnination and operation that was to follow, was appreciated by the boys, and brought down the house. T wonders how C. K p enjoyed the stone- cutter's ball. Fresh ( assun1.ing the role of demonstra;or of anat~ o 111 y) , \ This is the periconceu m . '' We call attention to advertisement of the E. C. Fasoldt Manufacturing Co. on page vii. It is now a demonstrated truth that \ pigeons fly · up,\ even though the cerebrun1 be removed. Dr. Skillicorn, handing Mr. B-- a superior n1axil- lary, \ What bone is that?\ Answer, \Nasal.\ Lieut. Swatka, the arctic explorer, studied medicine at the Albany Medical College.- Alba1ZJ' Eve12ing Journal. Even seniors do son1.etirnes have interesting talks an1ong the1nselves. Senior No. I to No. 2 : \What is blepharitis?\ No. 2 to No. I : \Inflarnn1ation of the blephar.\ No lectures were delivered on Monday, Tuesday at~d Wednesday of election week, as, the boys went home to exercise their franchise. Surgical and n1edi- cal clinics were held on Monday and Wednesday, respectively. The boys congratulate themselves on having received from Prof. Balch a U10St thorough hauling over the

. as an c. fly .. zng hat of the THE CONCORDIENSIS. 35 i coals during the past two weeks. When the Professor , an1ong us as a gentle1nan and a scholar, singularly quiet I tilts back on his heels, puts his hands in his pockets and ' and unass1n11ing, but always \at hon1e\ in a quiz ; he gives that left eye its peculiar squint, you 1nay know he recently visited the college and will assu1ne the respon- has found his tnan, and there is son1ething co1ning. sible position given hin1 on th:e 1st of Decen1ber. Professor Van Derveer held his last 1nonthly ex- atninations on surgery, October 24th; on theory and practice of n1edicine, October 25th. He announced his n1arks as follows : Surgery, two students receive 10 plus; twenty-five, I o; three, 9; ten, 8 ; one, 6. Theory and practice : Four, IO plus; twenty-six, IO ; one, 9 ; nine, 8 ; one, 5. Saturday, October z 7th, a nine fron1 '84 played one fron1 '8 5 on a field somewhere near the jun1p- ing off place. The garne was called during the fifth innings, as the bats, unfortunately, had become broken. The score was II to 9 in favor of '84. Mr. Cooley acted as un1pire. vVhile returning hotne through Muckerville, a nun1ber of its inhabitants endeavored to clean out the 1nedical students; but to their utter sorrow found that they were not able. ALUMNI NEWS. '44· Dr. Hocum, of New York city, visited the college two weeks ago. CLASS 1'\JEWS. THE se11iors have- elected the following .executive \ : conunittee : Marselius, Flynn, Jones, Bloss and 1 Swift. 1 1 ~ ovetnber rst,. the class of '8 5 accepted the fol- lowing by a unan1n1ous vote: \'VHEREA:::l, Much annoyance has been experienced · by lectur,ers and students, because of unnecessary · statnping, be it : .Rc:solvecl, That we, as. a class, discountenance all I i such d en1011strations 1y our classmates. Resolvtc!, That we request the senior and freshman classes to do the same l>y their 1nen1bers. At a 1neeting of the class of '86, held October 23, , the following resolutions were adopted : 1 vVHERI<:As, The Aln1ighty C ~od has seen fit to ren1ovc frotn this world Nina B. \Vh.eeler, wife of Prof. S. B. \ \Vard; and 1 \VHEREAS, \Ve recognize the sorrow thus fallen to the lot of our beloved Professor; therefore, be it '49· Dr. S. 0. Vanderpoel, emeritus professor of : pathology, practice and clinical1nedicine of the A. 1\11. C., has been elected president of the New Yprk County Medical Society. Resohwi, That the class of '86 tender their syn1pathy to the famjly in this their hour of bereaven1ent; and be it Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be for- '78. Dr. A. H. Ma1nbert, of Rondout, was at the college the latter part of October. '8r. Dr. F. E. Schley, of Pine Hill, Ulster county, was in Albany, October zoth. warded to the fa1nily of the deceased. B. WHITEHORNE, F. s. 'I' RACY' J. A. CurrER, '82. Dr. W. E. Dietz, of Howe's Cave, n1ade a l Committee. visit to his Aln1a Mater in October. I '83. Drs. w. M. Ambler, of New Lebanon, and I .Albany College of Pharnlacy. Ch~.P.McCabe,ofGree~ille,Greenecoun~,~~ted I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ their friends and the college during the last week of·' AS we are entering on a course of study to fit us for October. ! the pursuit of our }3rofession, a few hints as to '83. Dr. A.M. Leonard is ]JUrsuing a special course 1 ~ the elernents of success may not be out of place. The of study with Prof. Merrill. first essential elen1ent is devotion to our profession; I '83. We are pleased to learn through the Cornell I not a grinding, slavish devotion which would cause us Daily Sun, and other sources, that an alumnus of our I to wear out life with a never-ending labor through fear institution, Dr. Theobald S1nith has received an ap- I of letting a stray penny slip through our fingers, but pointment at an advanced salary in the U. S. Agricul- 1 an intense love for the profession which n1akes con- I tural Departn1ent. Dr. Stnith is also a g1;aduate of 1 science of every duty, even the hu1nblest. Another Cornell, and for sometime past has been at that insti- \ great element of success consists in bringing to bear tution \ pursuing advanced work in con1parati;e anat- I on our work all our skill all.d knowledge, as well as all on1y and histology, and has n1ade son1e adn1irable \ the inforn1ation we can derive fron1 any source. This preparations -for the University.\ Dr. Sn1ith was known I is not as easy as it at first sight appears. The student r }, ~ ~ 1 (• \ '· I \ I l I

I '' ' ·' •• \ ,. f l' •' . . i ' ,. f ,i ,· \ j 'I I 36 THE CONCORI )lENSIS. well trained in the sciences stndierl at college, will find hin1self n1uch at sea in applying his lcnowledge to practical every day work. A third important eletnent consists in keeping abreast of the discoveries and ad- vances of the day. Continual advance is being n1ade, and it is the duty of every one to keep pace with the ad- vance. '.'The pharmacist for pharn1acy, not l~ess than pharn1acy for the pharn1acist, n1ust be our one great ailn, and just as pharn1acy derives its existence fron1 no particular branch of science, but is in a certain sense the offspring of all, so also nrust the phan11acist ai1n to derive his skill and knowledge, not frotn one particular department, but fron1 all in their order.'' There are three directions fron1 which the phannacist 1nay derive support: rst, the co1nn1unity which surrounds hi1n; 2d, the n1edical faculty; 3·d, the men1bers of his own profession. All are glad to recognize the educated pharmacist and give hi1n their support. THE College of Phannacy possesses quite an exten- sive collection of che1nicals, n1inerals, herbs, roots, etc. The Albany Chemical Co. have contribu- ted a complete line of herbs and roots. Chas. Phizer & Co. presents samples of about one hundred different chen1icals, and \Vyeth & 'Co., of Philadelphia, a line of fluid extracts, syrups and elixirs. Tilden & Co., Mercien & Gardnier, A l\f cClure & Co. and several other firn1s have also presented the College with speci- nlens. 1)is collection enables the professors to have san1ples of nearly everything upon which they lecture, and is a great help to the student in his studies. THE Senior class election resulted as follows : Pres- ident, Frank lVI. Clen1ent, Albany, N. Y. ; vice- president, 0. T. Larkin, Plattsburgh, N. Y. ; secretary and treas1.on·er, G. V. Dillenbeck, Albany, N.Y.; histo- rian, Harry C. Vedder, Catskill, N. Y. ; quizzn1aster in n1ateria medica, F. B. Warren, Albany, N. Y. The class then adjourned to Keeler's, where they enjoyed oysters at the expense of the successful candidates. not. We hope the comn1ittee having the· n1atter in hand will report favorably and that every student wiU willingly purchase his pin. LOCALS. W . · IT' I-I hut few exceptions every 1nem ber of the ' College of Phan11acy has subscribed for 'T'H E Co:t\CORDIENSTS. The \villingness to support the paper is \·ery gratifying to the editors of this departn1ent, and will \vithout doubt be fully appreciated by our friends at Union. R. H. Roth has been elected quizzmaster and W1n. . S. Elmendorf editor for the Junior class. \Varren, '84, has proved to be a thorough ancl effi- cient quizztnaster. Frank had better change his pro- ; fession frotn that of a pharn1acist to a professor. Prof. Michaelis has con1n1enced a course of lectures : on \Vohnnetric Analysis \ before the Senior class. · 'The subJect is a new one in the College and 1s of great interest and in1portance to the pharmacist. We learn with regret of the death of Rowland T. Brock, a fanner n1ember of the class of '84. Mr. ! Brock was one of those 1nen who to know hi1n was to ! like hiln. Ill health prevented hjn1 fro111 joining h.is : class at the beginning of this tenn. I ========================~~~====~========= I CLIPPINGS. A HINT. y< >C::'-:G Gussie Punk was a fearless lad,., · A fearless lacl was he,- 1 le would strike a ten with the greatest ease \Vhile his neighbors made a three. I Ie ro(le full well- thi.s gay young man,- His steed so fast and free. ( >ne clay his pony balked, and kicked, ,\ nd Gussie- where was he? L'E.'\YOI. . \\ou may seek within the class-room, You may search upnn the green; But the smiling face of Gussie Pttnk Will never more be seen. z. Q N E of the laws of the College, requiring that a senior shall have at least three and one-half years in the drug business before coming up for final I examination, will prevent several men1 bers of the senior class fron1 graduating. Soph. to Fresh. : \ Do you think I can raise a 1noustache before sophon1ore ex.?\ Fresh., doubt- fully: \Well I don't know. It will be a close shave ' but, perhaps, y.ou can razor.\ Soph. proceeds to lather him. He had been telling her about secret societies aTtd ~ ' THE question of a class pin has been considerably agitated by the students for the last two weeks. Aln1ost all of the Colleges of Phannacy have adopted suitable badges, and there is no reason why we should then he took her hand in his and jokingly asked if he should give her his Fraternity grip. ,. \ I thought that was what you have been giving n1e for the last hour,\ she naively replied, as she pressed his ann tighter about her.

