THE CONCORDIENSIS -~------------------ ------· ----- --·. ----·- --- ------. VOL. VI. S<;:HENECTADY, N. Y., jUNE, I883. No. IX. - PuBLISHED MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second Class Matter. EDITOR,-lN-CHIEF-JOHN R. HARDING, '83 .. Literary Department, Athletic Department,. ]. W. HIGSON, '84. .f Z. CLARK. '84 . . ·F. BAILEY, '85. E. MITCHELL, 'Ss. Local Department, Personal Departme:o. t, - - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. Extranea Department, E. H. ADRIANCE, 'SJ. Exchange Department, l Collegensia Dc;:partment. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, '83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. Aol,RESS: A. T. C. HA:\1Ll~, P. 0. Bllx, 456, Sdtt.'JL'ctudy, N. Y. ~The C<>~COI~lHr'..~srs wiLl be fuund on sale at Barhyte's, I I I State Street. Pri{1ted by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 187 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. His~ory of c1ass of '83, Address, Prophecy, - - - The 'fyrann y of the Tin1es, The Psi Upsilon Fraternity, Alurnni Meeting, - Editorial, - COMMENCEMENT WEEK. The Baccalaureate Sermon, Class Day Exercises of '8 3, - Meeting of l3oard of Trustees, Commencement Day, Commencement Notes, Athletic Department; '8o's Triennial, - Obituary, Miscellaneous, - Statistics of the Class of '8 3, - 209 2I5 .?.I8 225 228 229 230 233 233 233 234 235 236 241 242 243 244 ~literary. ----------------------- ·HISTORY OF THE CL1\SS 0~~ I ~83. BY WILLIAM \VHALEY BELLINGER. On Wednesday morning, Septem- ber I 7th, I 879, forty-five handsome, well-dressed individuals occupied all of the vacant space in front of the door of the Union College Chapel.. It was a grand sight to all lookers- on. Never had anyone beheld such a spectacle. The gravest 1nd wisest Senior present pronounced it to be a most wonderful sight. The mystery of their individuality, ho-vv- ever, was soon to be revealed. The bell, that had been ringing for sev- eral minutes then ceased, the chapel door opened and these forty-five gal- lants n1arched in. No sooner had the first man crossed the threshold than a fearful cry arose \Vhich shook the building from its very founda- tion, and that cry was, \Oh Frosh! \ We were Freshmen then, \vhatever we may have thought to the contrary, but we wanted some more euphonious

2IO Tf-IE CONCORDIENSIS. --- ------·------ --- ----~---- title by \vbich we could be distin- guislled from the rabble which sur- rounded us. After making inquiries of the Registrar, \Ve discovered that we had been narned \83 a name wh~ich has been respected by the \Vorld ever since it ~;vas given. Before the first day of our sojourn- ing had drawn to a close, \Ve dis- covered tha~ there \vas a band of men called \Sophs\ in the land, and that the aforen1entionecl band were remark 1 There was but one thing to do and that was to elevate ourselves above' the rabble by ascending the table. Once on the table questions \vere propounded to us, harder than any that can be found in the ''West- minster Catechism.\ Our querists were astounded by our prompt and correct replies. The questioning being over they i nfonned us tb at we 1nust \set up cider.·' We were dumbfounded by the demand. Who our 1nortal e nen1i es. These \bloody were thes ~ be in j·s that could drink Sophs\ gave us no peace during the entire day. vVe were so ITIUC h har- assed by then1 that we lonp;ed for night, but \\Vhen evening's sable mantle\ bad \\shut the lustre of the sunset fronl our sight'', we found that the state of affairs was worse than ever. rfhe air was rendered discord- ant by blasts fron1 tin horns a.nd un- tuned instruments of every descrip- tion. We could not conceive what could be the cause of so great an up- roar. Our suspense, however, was· short. Our roon1s were entered and we were commanded ''to mount the table.' Imagine how we felt ! vVe were deprived of the privacy of our rooms, we were taken unawares. Some of us \vere partaking of our evening draught of milk, others were playing with their rattles. Were we angry when we were co1nmanded to leave all that was dear to. us and cider, while our potations vvere lim- ited strictly to n1ilk ? But, as they were larger than we, and only visited one of us at a tin1e, we \set up\ the cider. Our compliance seemed to have soothing effect for they soon left us. In a few hours silence prevailed over the land. Then, each 1-i\\resh- man took a dose of \ Mrs. \tVinslow's soothing syn1p\ and retired to his rest. Day by day,. as we entered the chapel we \Vere hailed with the now familiar cry of \Oh! Frosh.\ But one day something else occurred, sDm·ething that we \vere not expect~ ing. 'They threw salt at us. fiVe rzv~re salted. Our noble spirits re- belled against such treatment, but wl1at could we do? It is true that we had Sand but we lost hint on all such occasions. Besides they had the '' 1nount the table?\ Well, I should giant Adriance and the man of Her-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 2II culean strength, Hargrave, as \vell as two Indians fron1 the Choctaw nation. We endeavored to make friends with our ene1nies and be- seeched them to leave ~us in peace. In return they ridiculed us and shouted, \bring out a cane.\ We wondered what they 1neant by that pecu!iar expression, ''bring out a cane.\ After much n1cditation, -vve concluded that they referred to the annual \ Cane Rush.\ We deter- mined to have a rush but there \vas one obstacle in our way and that \vas the valiant Prex. He had proved hin1selfon previous occasions to be the best rusher that the college had ever produced. 'vVe \Vere so much afraid of him that vve tren1blcd \vhen- ever his name was tnentioned. We detern1ined, however, to sunnount · this obstacle. This afore1nentioned valiant lzad a \vay Df absenting him- self from town for indefinite periods. It was determined to have the rush when Prex was out of town. Tues- day, October I 6th, was the day ap- pointed for the contest. Fron1 the moment that the date vvas fixed \ve ceased to be pusillanimous. \Ve betook ourselves to the gymnasium and exercised every day. Soon were we transformed fron1 mewing infants to valiant warriors. Our sinews be- came as strong as steel. At last the eventful day dawned. As soon as the chapel exercises were over the struggle began. For one hour and a quarter the battle raged. Victory was within our grasp but \ve grasped it not. We \Vere jubilant but vve were doot11ed to he disappoin tecL For a mon1ent there \vas a 1 ull. No one knew vvhat had happened. Sud- denly it dawned upon us that we had been duped. \Ve looked around for our only \stand-by Sand, 1::ut, as usua! he was gone. vVe looked for the cane and it, also was gone. On'~ Drowne, vvho could run like a deer, bad the cane and \vas bound- ing across the pasture at full speed~ That \vas the last that we sa\v of that cane. But our disappointment was two-fold when we heard after the rush that our fear of the valiant Prex had been groundless, for he was, at that tin1e, in Australia searching for gold to tip the tusks of his fatnous \ wh£te elcflzant. ' After the \cane rush \ everythjng \vent along stnoothly until tbe end of our second tern1. At that titne a great affliction befell us. One to whom we -vvere greatly attached was removed from our mjdst. I refer to the illustrious {'Davies N. Bourdon.\ We were so afflicted by our loss that we determined to procure his re- mains and cremate them. Our ene- mies, the \Sophs heard of our in- tention and detennined to frustrate it, but after deliberation they re- considered their detern1ination.

212 THE CONCORDIENSIS. - ----------·- -- ----··-·------- - -·--- --- ----~ ------------- ------------ They rernem bercd how well -vve bad fought (and they saw the blood that was in our eyes) and wisely decided to leave us alone. At the close of this terro the obsequies we..re per- fcrmed over the remains <,,f our late friend. We honored him by a funer- al pro::::ession of prodigious len6th, hy an oration (the like of which had never been heard before) and by a poem. Finally, his remains \vere placed on the pyre, and we savv him reduced to ashes. Thus ended our second term. In our third term we wore beavers and carri'-·d canes with as nn1ch grace as the n1ost dignified Senior. We wrestled with Trjgonometry, Geon1etry and every other kind of \otnetry and in every instance, carne out \on the top.\ By this time wv. had gained the respect and admiration of everyone. The \Sophs'' became reconciled to us because we grew more and more valiant every day. As we were left alone by everyone we left everyone alone and therefore nothing of spe- cial interest occurred. Our Freshman year ended on June 22d, 1 88o. We, then, started for home and spent the sun1mer va- cation devising schemes for the to- ta1 annihilation of the incoming '' Frosh.\ On our return in the autumn, as Sophomores, we discovered that seventy men had hee11 enlisted un- der the banner of \'84.\ Notwith- standing that they outnumbered us almost two to one, we gave them battle im1ne.diately and vanquished them. Our first pren1editate.d battle with these neophytes occurred in the chapel. 1\:; soon as one of then1 entered the door he was welc0med with a volley of salt. vVhen they discovered this they entered in a body, drew the1nselves up in battle array and returned the fire. Then the battle began in earnest. Salt lay on the floor two inches deep. The air was fraught with it. One would have thought that all the salt of C>nondaga County had been trans- ported to Schenectady and turned loose in the chapel. The battle still raged. The upper class-men hur- rahed and the professors looked helplessly on. It was evident to everyone that we were being de- feated. A sudden change, however, took place. The hero from Pots- dam, Coffeen, now appeared in the field. He wiped up the floor with the carcasses of the miserable \Frosh.\ Their lines were broken, they ran. A shout arose from our side. We had a Goliath but they could produce no David. At this juncture Professor Webster appe~red on the scene and the battle in_stantly ceased. Each side claimed the victory.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. . 213 ------~-- ----~----------------------- The Freshmen soon forgot their defeat and became \cheeky\ once more.. We would . have reduced them to their proper station imme- diately but we were too closely guarded by the Faculty. An oppor- tunity, however, soon presented it- self. The Fresh men intended to . have a cremation. We secretel y determined that their cren1ation should be a failure. Their proces- sion set forth on the eventful night, guarded by the Schenectady police force (designated in classical litera- ture as \Cops). It was a beautiful sight, but alas! how· soon to be de- prived of its beauty. They marched down Union Street and when they reached the canal bridge we attacked them. There were but twenty of us to their sixty, we had but one object in view and worked, with a ·will, for its accomplishment. We were on the high road to victory when we were attacked by an unexpected foe. The ''Cops\ were upon us. ''Cops\ to the right of us, ''Cops\ to the left of us and Freshmen all around us necessitated our beating a hasty re- treat. Having lost the bridge we returned to the college hill in search of their pyre. We found it, and af- ter routing its defenders, applied the torch and reduced it to ashes. We then returned to attack their pro- cession for the second time. On meeting 1t we rushed an1ong the dis- .comforted ''Frosh'' and bore their transparencies triumphantly off. Once ·more the sound of the police- man's club was heard through the land. As the gigantic storm-wind of the Equinox descends on the At- lantic, so did the locust clubs on our heads. We were routed again . So it came to pass that the class of '84 erected a monument with the following inscription : \ The first class to· introduce the Schenectady 'Cop' within the Sacred Precincts of the college grounds, '84.\ With heavy hearts they viewed the errl- bers of their once magnificent pyre. The Freshmen were, at least, hu mil- iated. It was the last night of October, 188r, the moon was diffusing her mellow light over the silent earth, when the four classes of this noble institution turned out, with pickaxes, crow-bars and spades to utterly dem- olish the old stone walk which ex- tended from the Blue Gate to South College. (Every Alumnus \vho has ever been \weak-kneed or has not gone \home until morning\ will re- member the walk to which I refer). We began our work at the :Blue Gate and advanced uninterruptedly until we reached the Presidential Mansion. The uproar was so great that it disturbed the slumbers of our illl ustrious Prex. Being awakened he deemed it advisable to discover

.. THE CONCORDIENSIS. the cause of the tumult, which he instantly proceeded to do. 1\fter clothing himself as if it were sum m e!r he drew up the porticullis, let c1 o:vvn the draw-bridge and sallied forth~ Vve were absolutely astounded when we saw that stately form approach- ing. No one drean1ed of interru p- tion fron1 that quarter. 'The crowd i n11nediately dispersed, except a few unfortunates who were ·taken in the very act. It was with feelings of fear and sorro\v that we arose from our downy couches on tbe following _morning~ No one knew -vvhat the day \vould bring forth. Visions of pretnaturc vacations danced ill our heads. Our . only punishment, however, \Vas that of being put on probation-which we bore \vith exceeding difficulty. We celebrated the eve of \Nasb- ington's Birthday, I 882, by having; a class supper. It was our first affair of the kind. We could have had a half-dozen class suppers before that time had we so desired it, but we wanted no pleasure until -vve were perfect} y capable of enjoying it, and, at this stage of our course, we fe]t able to do justice to the a11-engros- sing subject. Our banquet \Vas held at the Windsor, in Albany. The tables were loaded with all the del- icacies that the n1 ost fanciful epicu r- ean cou1d have desired. It is need- less to arid that we did justice to what was placed before us and that \vhen we arose we left nothing but the bare tables-. crockery, plated \Vare, ete., having 1nysteriously dis- appeared. \Ve devoted the rernainder of our Junior year to hard study. We learned all that was worth knowing about worms, lightning-rods and base ball. The long-desired Senior year came at last. We found it, however, to be entirely different from what it had been pictured. For three long, \veary years, we had dreamed of \1naking love and winning hearts,\ but it was only a drean1. Heart- broken we turned from tbe frivolities of life to. the far-weightier subjects of Psychology and Geology. Sir \Villiam Han1ilton endeavored to convince us that we could pay at- tention to several things at the san1e time. \Ve determined to test the va1idity of that portion of the ''Ham- ' iltonian Methaphysics,\ and 1nade up a combinativn of which, probably, Sir Billy had never heard-viz. : base-ball, Wienckie and Psychology. The result was against Sir Billy, and we were compelled to return to our original dictun1, viz. : \man can at- tend to one tning at a time, and but one. We thePefore decided unani- n1ously in favor of Metaphysics. The next thing on the programn1e was \Ethics.\ We thought that our

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 215 morals were sufficiently pure, there- fore we paid but little attention to \Butler's .i\nalogy\ and '' l\1oral ' Philosophy.'' Our treaties on those subjects appeared to be equally as acceptable as those of Bishop Butler, and Dr. Peabody, so they were free- ly given. We were shortly to be precipitated into the deceitful \Vorld, so Prex de- termined to give us a lecture on \The choice of a wife.\ As it was a sub- ject on which all of us desired in- formation we longed for the lecture. Prexy, I presume, wisely decided that it would be irnpossible for him to in1prove on the views of the late Dr. Holland and had one of our nun1- ber read Mr. T'imothy Titcomb's letter on that subject. The su bsti- tution was most acceptable. But let 1ne not forget the history of '83 in the diamond. \It is suc- cinct and concentrated in one man, viz.: McElwain. \Crip\ could play in any position, and quite often filled tirne with unparallel success. He excelled, however, as a· pitcher. He could throw all of the curves, the \warble\ included. The only trouble with his pitching was that whenever he threw a curve the ball would part company with its cover. The strictest observance has been paid to the truth in the narration of the above events and now, the his- orian's task is completed. \Love to 'Old Union's \Valls,' Love to her ·Classic Halls,' Love to the light Htat falls On Eighty- Three.\ ·--------·---· ------- ADDRE,SS. THE UNSETTLED A'GE. BY G. V. P. LANSING. We live in an age of great unrest. 'fhe principles of tru tb and right are being attacked on every side by the marked tyranny of skepticisn'l and infidelity. At the present day the grand fabric of thought is inter- woven by such varied ''isms,\ so un- \' certain in their nature that the un- critical mind is baffled in any atte1npt \Vhatever in search of the truth. Heretics are scattering the seed of unbelief broadca~t; Atheists con1c out boldly before the world and de- ny their maker; Evolutionists are unraveling the tnystical ages, \vhile Materialists, with ''their far-reaching fancy\ are solving the origin of man. They forget that there are n1ysteries which the Almighty never designed to reveal to man ; if this were not so hovv could we vindicate the exist- ence of a God? The broad field of science does not even explain the first principles upon which it is based, nor can we justly claim an explanation of that \Nihil or call it what you may, of which the universe and its vast re-

216 THE CONCORDIENSIS. presentations of life originated. Man's incapability proves the exist- ence of a Supreme. Give to man the power adequate for grasping the hidden mysteries of life, its origin and destiny, and you destroy the divine fiat of creation. Man's knowledge is based upon fact, from ·which emanate his Sci- ence, Philosophy and Religion. Back of ph en omena or facts he can- not r;o, but by the study of then1 thought is generated, which is the v.:bicle that leads hin1 to great and \Ycnderful achievements. Thought, itself, is enlivened by feeling and what one knows, he n1ust feel. The mind is, undoubtedly, analogous to the body, it controls the actions of the body, the cultivation of one nee:.. essaril y affects the other. By train- ing the finer sensibilities of our na- ture we approach nearer the ideal, harmonizing the actions of our be- ing to the soul in the grand sympho- ny of a noble existence. What we need to day in this u n- settled state of affairs is educated, positive men, Men who are not afraid to vindicate the principles of truth and .right. Men ·who live above the superstions that infest the age; petty Philoso~hies that corrupt the h un1an intellect. In the great n1ental activity of the day we are out-living the spirit of eonservati ve and sectarian thought and are fast hastening to\vards un~ bounded liberalisn1. The enthusiast claims that our old Theology and its dogn1atic truths are being supplanted by a ne\v school, in its nature, more comprehensive of the possibilities of life. What a perpetuity of doubt, of marked uncertainty kno·wledge cre- ates! The avalanche that rnay crush us depends upon a single breath. What is that avalanche? It is Infii- delity ! Society is contan1inated by its influences. It is being fed upon too n1uch of vanity, that utopian dream, too ma1~y groundless ions and not enough of fact. Light literature and novel . op1n- read- ing are poisoning n1any an intellect. Fiction is enticing the mind with its imaginative flights as to a \Vorld en1- pyrean ; while history, the founda- tion of all true literature, becon1es a source of repugnant investigation except to the few. Is civilization advancing? Are the days of bloodshed and war over? asks the earnest inquirer. How long i '3 it since the battle-cry rose in hal- lucinations wild, upon the eastern coast? Why is Russia lost in the night- mare of Nihilisn1? ·Why is France convulsed by the contracting spirit of Monarchism on the one hand and the sweeping power of Republican ... ism on the other ? These are ques ... tions worthy of due consideration,

THE ·coNCORDIENSIS. 217 these are· questions which are stag- ship of four years. We ar~ on the gering the greatest intellects of the. threshold of a broader theatre of ac- nineteenth century! . But we need not look to foreign countries to de- tect corruption ; vve need only to look at home. A greater conflict is raging in our country than that of ' .arms; one of n1ore import than the taking of a city .. It is the inner con- flict \Vith self; the conflict of morality with vice. That which is shaking the fabric of our government to its very centre ; vvh ich is trying the very sine\vs of society ; vvhich 1s tending to dethrone individual char- acter. The public voice is crying out against the terrible miasn1a of political corruption, but vvhere is the political martyr who dare rebel against the progress of this awful ad- ver$ary? Who will sacrifice self-in- terest and help inculcate the prin- ciples of a new era ; a true reforma- tion ? Not until pride, vain glory and hypocrisy are eradicated! not until infidelity relinquishes its hold up)n the minds of men, will \Ve gain the victory. And now, Mr. President and men1- bers of the Senior class, the tin1e has come \vhen each one of us must ... decide what part he is going to play in the battle. We are cal1ed upon to resign our positions in collegiate life to other succeeding classes, after an intima- ate and, I trust, beneficial relation- tion ; sterner realities are pressing upon us, life is before us. Thousands have labored in the same fields which we are about to enter and succeeded; thousands have also n1ade striking failures in 1 i fe. I have c a 11 e d this an u n s e tt 1 e d age. Is it not also a speculative, an investigating age? Was human thought ever more active ? Could \Ve wish for greater advantages ? No! No n1atter what our vocation; be it Theology, Medicine, Law or the comtnon pursuits ot life, every field of h lllnan industry is fertile and in- viting to the honest worker. Li\·- . . 1ng, as \ve are, In a country whose government is representative, \vhere h ercdi tary rule and castes are un- k no\vn, \vhere prosperity seen1s at its zenith. where there is freedon1 of thought, speech and action ; what greater advantages do \Ve need? Man stands abreast with man. He rises in proportion to his capabilities and exertions. He feels he has no right to stand isolated fron1 his fel- lows, society has a just claim upon him, law restrains him . Literary land marks have eclipsed the battlen1ents of vvar. The incarn- ation of pea~e succeeded the bap- tisn1 of blood. And although the horizon looked Jark and impene- trable to those, who centuries ago,

2I8 THE CONCOI~DIF:NSIS. Jabored for the emancipation of the was no doubt either that every moth- hun1an intellect, the an1elioration of cr's son of them ought ~o be presi- the \vorlcl ; \ve, to-day, ar.e standing · dent of our glorious republic--that in the full fruition of their achieve- is if he wer~ willing to humble him- ments. Checked by the prcs~nt light of relig-ion and letter.~;, inspired by the oracles of the past, led on by the fixed star;; alrea:::ly in1 plan ted in the great alphabet of successfui lives, m a v \ve, fellow class-n1ates, so labor ,./ that the cpito1ne of our lives shall add other stars to the catalognc and help illun1ine the dark places of hu- m::tnity. l)l{OPH ECY. n\· ROS\VELL A. BEr\EIHCT. ScHEXECTADY, June, I88J. \Vh~n th·~ n1antle of prophecy fell upon your h u n1 hl ~ servant he was strctightway nH1ch exorcised in spirit. Not that he feared a lack of appro- priate afflatus--for now-a-days it sc~cn1s natural fur everybody to pro- phesy all n1anner of things, frotn early frosts to j u d g n1 en t days ; and it w o u 1 d be a \vonder if the divine gift should be withheld fron1 an august Senior, the noblest being- below the skies. But the trouble was here: '['here \.Vas no doubt in the world that ()ld Union's class of 'R3 \vas the \visest, the n1ost learned, the n1ost n1eritorious, the handson1est, the su blin1est class she had ever been blessed vvith. rfhcre self so n1uch for the sa 1 -::e of his coun- try-· J.n d it would be a sad reflection on the good taste of the people and their shre\vd ness in recognizing a priceless privilege if any one of then1 could not order his to1nbstone with \ H ~re Lies'· Jack Adams, for in- stance, \forty-eleventh president of the United States I· neatly carved in raised letters upon its immaculate face with a group of star Spangled Banners gracefully festooning either side of the inscription and a bunch of stacked musket with fixed bayon- ets and a big cannon coming in on the chorus and \ Give n1e Liberty or give n1e death\ pathetically bring- ing the whole to a patriotic period! But lVIathematics -confound l\1athe- n1atics! Prof. Price was to blame for their precious, impertinent obtru- siveness, the developn1ent of the dif- ference between the multiplication table and a cuneform inscription was due to hitn, as far as many of us '83 n1en were concerned. Mathen1atics, I repeat, \voke your obedient ser- vant to a cold and prosaic realization of the truth. There were 32 of us precious sprouts of '83, and each was to give vvine suppers in the White House at the expense of an awe- struck people for the period of four ye: us fio SOl far ha co 1111 di tv 0\ hl IT w a r t t . 1 1

Tl-IE CONCORDIENSIS. 219 years at least, and perhaps son1e of us would condescend to take the of· fice for a second term a1;1d may be some few would be, by that time, so far materialized, terrestrialized (per-· haps newspaper n1en would call it c:orrupted ), 1nade like to men of con1- . n1on clay, they would tolerate the in- dignity of a third tenn. Now, four times thirty-two, per- haps eight tin1es thirty-two, possibly twelve tin1es the same would stretch over a tedious spell. Why, allowing but four years a piece and leaving a with a crowbar or a chance for a IniHion dollar steal. And besides they say that \vhen a fellow gets to be two or three hundred years old he don't care as n1uch for triHes as he did once-he gets quiet and re- flective-·· wine esuppers and flo\ving speeches and airy co1nplin1ents don't affect hiln as they do younger peo- p 1 e ; it's 1 ike 1 y b c \ vo u 1 d not e v en sn1ile for a regin1ent of Mark Twains; or \veep for a round tnillion of tracts telling how 'Ton1my took to drinking and offered a horrible exan1ple to the vvhole town ; or n1ove his bones if the united universe \vere to holler \fire! ., in his car with a seven-foot trumpet and it's hardly likely he would want to be bored at his n1ature age with four years at Long Branch on pain of $ so,ooo per year. n1argin for an occasional Guiteau it would take over a ht1ndred years to go all round. But n1aking the aver- age tern1 six years. \vhich is the n1ost rcasonab le, it would take aln1ost two hundred years for each of us to have been bored with the \Vhite House according to his deserts. Now yours in trouble calculated the probabilities were t h~t som c of you restless fel- lo\vs, after waiting a century or so for your turn, would conclude to peddle clams or t-.> indulge in some sirnilar pleasure for the purpose of killing the tin1e which n1ight be get- ting a little irksome, and the chances were the majority who thus dissip- ated vvould, after the lapse of a half century be so attached to their re- creation, their own selfish diversion, that even a11 adoring people, clamor- ing for executive talent at Washing- ton, D. C., could not 1nove them It became evident, as yours to com- n1ancl thus n.nninated, that to proph- ecy the whole class of '83 into the presidential chair would be a trifle hazardous, for the reason that, in all hutnan probalility not n1ore than a dozen or twenty of them would ever get the!e. Then there would be a dozed or so who w-ould have had their youthfql hopes un\varrantabl y excited ; and very likely their n1oth- . ers and fathers and brothers and sisters, affectionate uncles and doting aunts rnay be grandn1others and grandfathers too, who had been \vaiting for post-offices and cabinet

220 'THE CONCORDLENSIS. . - ------ . ------- .. --------- -- offices under the fan1ily ad nJinistra- tion would hound them on to get up a breach of pron1ise suit against a poor inoffensive old man whose only crime was that once long a.go in a fit of youthful enthusiasn1 he had proph- esiecJ not wisely but too well. Yet how could you 1nake presidents of two thirds ofthe class and slight the other third? There \Vas'nt one of then1 who was not thoroughly worthy of the off-icc and more than con1pe- tent to fill it. They \Vould all know this, and not being able to see the irnprobability of their all being pre- sidents as did yours distractedly \vho n1aturely reflected on the n1atter, they would be deeply indignant at being left out in the cold , and the result very likely be a paragraph in the d Zlil y paper, headed \ I,\'ound Dro\vn- ed '' or \Mysterious Disappearance:', \Vitb a descripfion of son1ebJd y about the size and height and general de- pravity of yours in tears. Now, con- fidentially, your 1nost devoted scor- ned personal danger if incurred in doing a plain duty but he had not then 1nade his vvill and the thought of dying in testate 8.1 ways n1ade his flesh creep. It is a notorious fact that this stepping off without expres- sing your sacred will about the dis~ tribution of your old clothes and un- paid bills, inevitably causes unseein- ly squabbles among your heirs, and is very apt to divert the minds ofthe n1ourners before they have shed the appropriate nun1ber of tears, and yours a:'stheticall y had always felt he never could ·be easy with less than three pints. And then again it ·would be a horrible thing to be the cause of ~remorseful conscience and l'u blasted lives to one's class-mates·; for it vvas certain that when the first fr~nzy of indigation wac; over, and they paused and realized \vbat they had done they would. see they acted unreasonably, (for there's not a ree~l illogical one in the class, as Prof. Alexander, the hero of first tern1 Junior can testify) aud close upon this conviction would follow deep, inconsolable ren1orse; for there is not a real hard-hearted one in the class, as the young ladies, the\ hero·· ines of a hundred\-ch urch sociables can honestly bear witness. It was very clear the cl u ty of yours disin- terestedly was to serve them all alike. rfhen what was was be done? Make then1 all Governors? No! What would the governor of Dela-vvar e think of the prophet? Impartiality and the dignity of their Alma Ma- ter required them all to be governors of the noblest state in the Union, ·which of cours6· is New York. An- other dilen1ma. If they all held the office at the satne tin1e Old Union would have too n1any ex-officio trus- .. tees ; but if they governed in succes- sion in all their glory the jealousy .of

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 221 ----~---·------·--~~------------~- the other states vvould breed civil war. Governors were out ot the question. vVell, could they be made crowned? Impossible! Would any ' 83 man, a son of this glorious re- public, stoop so low as as to be l{ing of Great Britain? Perish the sugges- tion! Thus a graceless rabble rag-tag of dilen1mas and bob-tail perplexities jostled on all sides against your living sacrifice,. until he resolved to tell the truth and shan~e George Washington, in the face of all foes. He prepared for active service. He · \Vent to a harne~s shop and asked to sec their assort n1 en t of co\-vhides. He vvanted something he said \that a fellow can twist up his sleeve you knovv, and have always on hand\. \Oh said the shop-keeper_, ''you are a senior I suppose, and want the same sort of an article rest have been nothing. \Ah thought yours prof- essionally, .\ I'll raise 'em one on that.\ He did not want a cow-hide any more; he sighed for something with a longer range. He vvent to a gun-shop. He said he wanted to see a pocket arsenal, a gatling gun in 1niniature, something that ·would kill every time beyond the re;:-tch of the longest cow-hide. Smith, over on the corner, had in his 1nurdcrous old shop son1ething that would go off spontaneously, with deadly aim, sixteen tin1es at once and in as many different directions. The clerk ap- pole>gized and tin1idl y explained that our uninventive age had not yet stumbled upon such a treasure- grand idea surely, he thought-re- gretted it had not been realized. \But said he with a child-like sym- pathy,\ you are a Senior, aren't you? and would not you like the same getting.\ \ fhe rest! \vhooped your sort 9f a peace-maker the rest of 'en1 victin1,\ who are they? ' \Ob was the innocent reponse \the other Seniors.\ Cross-questioning revealed that sixteen of the tallest men in the class such as Adriance and Nash (be it said to their shame) had purchased cow-hides, \something a fellow can twist up his sleeve, you know, and have handy.\ And moreover the shop-keeper had overheard one of thetn saying something about n.ot be- have been getting?\ and he pro- duced a short barreled but rather large-bored six shooter. ' 1 Dunder and blitzen! \ exploded your burnt offerring, \ How many of those as- sassins' tools haYe you sold to Sen- iors ? \ \Ten said he, and his face bean1ed vvith the complacent smile of the true salesman, \they said a one shooter would answer,\ (and here he chuckled mysteriously) \but you see, I coaxed them to take ing n1ade a peanut vender of, for a six.\ \ Sixteen plus ten,\ mused

222 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ·- -- ~ ------· ------ -- --- --- --- your 1nathen1atical prodigy \equal twenty-six. Twenty-six to one. Got any Creedn1ore rifles ?'' \Creed more rifles i' just like those the other bouo-h t ?'' ''What b h ?\ ot ers. yelled your n1artyr. cally) ''the \ Why,\ ( apologeti- l fi \ ot1er ve. \No! villain, con1plete your work of death; cont1n ue vour infernal traffic ; but at J your peril te1npt again a prophet to stain his soul with fra~ernal blood ·1\ Y uu r patient v ictin1 hanged out of the shop and ~hot down street, his head. bnzzing in a wild bewildern1ent in which the onh· sc..:ntiments distin-· ' ~ guish:t b! e \Vcr--: defiance and despair. Hc\v it can1e about he does not know, but suddenly he found hin1self braced against a lanlp-pt)St, flonrish- ing his fists ~nd yelling \Come one, con1e all! this rock shall fly, from its firn1 base as soon as I''. \It shall hey!\ \Vhack !. \Vas it Fourth of July so soon ? Where did so n1anv rockets and -· roman candles come from?. No, it wzts not Fourth ofJuly, but only a new edition of Can1pbell's works of which a Paige hadbeen dedicated to yours of the fracture cl s k u 11 , an cl b c - fore he conld call a doctor he was locked in a cell at th~ Police Station. Next n1or\ning the cherub face of officer PaigP. s n1 ilecl in upon your fa1- len hero, who was straightway hust- led before his Honor. '' \Vell, \in- quired t h at est i n1 a b 1 e g e 11 tIe n1 an \ what Dido has tbis youngster been cutting?''. \Holding up a lanlp- post, fighting drunk\. Fighting drunk ! \ Where did you get your liqnor, sonny? I'll break up this sell- ing drink to minors, if I lose my free beer for it!\ ''My last drink,\ said sonny, in the most approved Sun- day School style, I think was from J k ' . ,, ac ·sons spnng . ,.~fake care, young man!\ roared his 1-Jonor, \none of your stale col- lege ran1s around bere !' \Though now I think of it,\ restuned sonny overwhelmed with contrition, ''it may have been from one of the cows . 11 t \ 111 co eg e pas ure. '·Officer\ thundered tbe Judge, ''give hirn forty-eight hours for con- tenl.pt of the court !'' \But ] udge,- \exiJostulated your torn and bleed- i ng. Just then, like the shadow of a n1ighty rock, within a weary land, Prof. Perkins appeared. What his true errand \Vas never transpired. He was not accompanied by an of- ficer or he n1ight have been suspect- ed of having been found '' ·fighting drunk too.'' \ Why, Roz, this is queer business,·' he blurtPd. ''Fight- ing- drunk, corner State and Centre '-' street last evening five o'clock,\ ex- plained tbe accon1modating officer. \Drunk exclaimed the Professor, \are you sure ? \ \What made h in1 fight 1 ike a cat caught in a picket fence then?\ den1anded the officer

1HE CO~COH.DIENSIS. 223 sternly. The Professor saw there was sotnething unusual ·in the case and for a second hesitated, then with ' a nefarious plot twinkling in his wicked blue eyes, asked, \ Did it ache as b.tdly as that, H.oz?\ \And a 1n ig h t y sight worse,\ said your in- jured innocent at ranJon1, wondering what th~ Professor \vas driving at. \Course it did, I knew it \vould ; but if you had gone to bed as I bade you instead of down to\vn 'twould have stopped in a second. You see, Judge,\ continued the abandoned Prof~ssor, ' th ~ bov had a bad tooth- ,/ ache and when he came into the Laboratory I filled the cavity with hydrosiated supertrituated cyanide of pera.gori~.' ' Oh ! ' gasped the Judge. 'If' pursued the Professor, 'he had lain clo\vn like a good boy and tnindcd his eld crs there would have been no trouble, but his rush- ing arou 11d just sent the stuff to his brain and made hirn craz-crazy, Judge, no drunk about it.' \It was distressing to think,\_re- lnar ked the JUdge, \ that one of his tender years should be so depraved as to have evil desig·ns on the public. \Vell, Professor, take hi1n along, but when you give hitn any n1ore-nH>re -what d'ye call it, just be kind enough to shut h itn up.'' \ Cotn e Roz,'' said the Professor leading the way to the street. \ 'Pon n1y \Nord,., continued he, as he got beyond car- shot of the judge, \that was a close call. First lie I ever told though, Roz, and you ought to be the last to give it away.'; \But Professor,'' pleaded your long-suffering \J'Olt don't think I was drunk, do you ? \ \ He, he, he,\ snickered the Prof- essor, \ Senior vacation, Roz, all signs fail, Senior vacation, he, he, he.\ \ But, Professor, I had not been near a liquor saloon, \vben that craniun1 crusher interviewed 111~, I had just J eft a gun store.\ \ H a, h a, ha, he, he, he,' rippled the inquisit- or, ' no wonder you got so badly shot,' and he was out of reach around the corner. Nobody knows the sufferings of a conscien tiuus class prophet. Son1e think he is drun~,, others crazy; all point their thumbs over their should- ers at you as you pass and say to their neighbors, 'See that coon? Biggest crank in seven counties.' The trouble is not in prophesying -even -Wiggi~1s can do that, it is in suiting your customers. If you send hotne the photographs without re- touching the negative your occupa- tion is gone in a twinkling of an ~ye. But if you foretell a man's future without any soft sa\vcler-with all its idiosyncrasies and often infirmities -there's no tnore a resting place for such as you on this footstool, you 1night as well emigrate to the moon right away; even the sun would be

224 THE CONCORDIENSIS. cooler quar;t:ers than within singing distance of those whotn you had pro- vided with appropriate futures. In the prophet business you've got to tell the truth to live co1nfortably with yourse;lf; but you've got to lie like a Turk to live comfortably -vvith your patrons, and until the problen1 is solved how prophetic truth, well- ing fron1 the crystal depths of the prophet's ingenuous soul, shall at the san1e tin1e present conspicuous! y the falsehood that weak htunan ity will not be comforted without, no honest rnan can swing out his shingles \Prophesying done with neatness and d~spatch.\ Until then there will always be bungling and delay; bungling, because if he means to suit his .custo1ners the process by which the propbettinkers us his conscience n1ust always appear; delay, because if be resolves to tell the truth he 1nust first wind up his mundane af- fairs and make his \vill, Is it a \Vonder that vvith such al- ternatives staring hin1 in the face your down-trodden and oppressed has resolved to seek refuge in a Yankee trick ? Capricious prophecies are one thing, stable historical facts another anC: if any of you fellows take exception to SL1~h facts \vhy, you can just settle it with the historian who will begin his earthly career fifteen hundred (I 500) years later than this year of our l_.ord the I 88 3d. Early in the summer of the year 4883, A. D., there tnight have been seen a solitary {orm bending over a · solitary spade in the solitary region once called in the far, far away an- nals of the past, 'Old Dorp.' As the solitary form applied the heel of his number nine to the solitary spade he thus soliloquized: 'Surelv this is _, the spot, for lo ! the head of the an-· cient idol peeps above the sand in front, and just behind is the vener- able tnound in~cribed with rnystic character::; whi2h the historie5 of fif- teen centuries record as erected by some old heathen of antiquity for a n1en1orial to hirnself and his children. Lo ! smooth and round it stands like a great earthen bowl fashioned by a 'patter's hand.' And sti.ll he dug. While the sun ascended to the dizzy pinnacle of the heavens, he dug. While it descended through the glowing We~t, he dug. While it kissed the blushing earth 'good night,' he dug. While the azure twilight glimrr1ered through the rnurmuring trees, he dug. vVhilc the night, like a cavernous-throated monster swallowed hin1 up, he dug. Until the solemn hour of midnight was rung fro1n 'distant steeples, he dug for dear life.-N or let go to take a fresh hold all that tirrJe. With the last tones of the 1nidni£\ht bell the '-' solitary figure paused and bent lower and away went a suspender button.

T'I-IE CONCORDIENSIS. He drew fcon1 the yawning pit, .scooped in the treacherous sand by bis unflinching arn1~ a.mighty volun1c !{lark with the mil dews of centuries~ But age and mildew had not obscu-· ned its herojc nature ; for through the n1iclnight blackness shone from !ts ample CO\Ter the flaming charac--: ters \83'·'~ The digger. turned its leaves one by oue, and lo! ev~ry page \vas lustrous. \Vithout sun or moon or tallow dip to iUun1ine, each \vord sh on.e clear as burnished gold. 'l'he rnysterious spadesn~an drunk his soul's fill fron~ the narrative un- folding the heroic exploits of the redoubtable thirty-two (32)-what bloody fields they vvon-what assen1- blages of the nation they held spell- bound with more than. Ciceronian eloquence··· ho\v their sage :counsels c.ond ucted the affairs of State through ' every stonny crisis, and how, at last~ after long eventful and prodigiously heroic lives, they were one after an~ other borne to their graves amid the tears of a heart-broken people, the solemn boo1n of the n1inute gun, the funeral toll of ten thousand bells, and the hysterical flutter of seventeen millions eight l1unJred and sixty- seven thousand four hundred and eighty-three flags at precisely half mast, union down. At this point rapt spadesman, his eyes large with wonder, his voice tre- mulous with excitetnent, his whole countenance glowing \vith the admi- ration he had long struggled to con- ceal, n~u rn.n1rcd. \What a lot of taffy !'t THE TYRANNY OF TffE TIMES.. The history of the universe is of necessity a dcJincation of changes. Changes gives tne life. Earth's history as prcsen ted in its ~~fossil hieroglyphics\ evidences the tyranny of our age over another. H utnan history prc.scnts the sarne even tuali ties-strifes bet\vcen n1en and tyranny of governn1ents over subjects. Taking a rctrospecti vc € lance o\~er the phalanx of nations we observe in the !ife of each an ebb and a flow. Destruction, blighting agencies, con- stantly linger. Tyranny has wrought fearful results. Where now is the glory of Greece! vVhere the gran- deur of R.ome! With the lust of con- quest\ and gain their primitive pllrity faded away under the baleful influ~ cnce of embittered factions. In that hour of \ disastrous eclipse , liberty took her flight and these two pillars of antiquity fell into dismem- berment and into the \·ortex of an- archy. We need but review the various modern civilizations to find em bodied J in then1 the essence of degeneracy.

226 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Spain presents a deplorable spectacle of man to day flan1e forth in bold de- of n1oral degradation; Turkey is lit- fiance of the true and beautiful in tie better. Arrogant England, am- Iife, alas, public virtue is as raped bitious f .. rance, oppressive Russia, proud Austria, indeed all Europe, is \.vrapped in an atmosphere of uncer- tainty. The shadow of some crisis hangs like a n1urky cloud over every nation. Tyranny Iurkes in every corner. Politi cal an im osi ties, religious con- tentions, Communism, Nihilism, vice and ignorance are the forces which are incompatible with freedom. Be-· t\veen these burdens the civilized world sways to and fro like ·a vessel on troubled waters. Are these forces ·patent or are they hidden ? Has time removed no evils from so- ciety? Has the grave mellowed no animosities ? . It is not difficult to write grand things about our glorious destiny, but it is different to pilot the ship of state in the harbor of safety when in its decay as it is in its growtho lVIen promise, but fail to do. The dependence af classes . on 111- di:viduals is the bane of national purity. How are the fetters to be severed which link the poor to the rich, the weak to the strong. How re1nove the restraint \Vh ich now in- terposes between the man and the ballot r The right to cast a vote un- tainted by external i ,fluence is the highest and noblest right of man. It is the liberty of all liberties, the foun- dation of freedom. He who votes at the ·\vill of a n1aster is untrue to his country, untrue to his family, untrue to his God. He is no longer a free- man. As Goethe called for • more light\ so men plead for n1ore freedom, but what do they mean by freedom? Simply the right to act as they like, irrespectively of the fitness of their piratec;; are aboard and ·when offices actions ; cruel ambition beclouds and prizes are daily increased. Cor- thetn all. Men sacrifice friends, for- ruption is gro\ving and is there any consolation in thinking that vve may be near the turning point, or is there '' below this deep, a deep yet lower still?\ Men are dishonest, are vvorship- er' s of false gods, are vassals and have but little individuality. The more selfish traits of humanity, and the groveling, animal, material nature sooth and even reputations to fur- ther individual desire. In these times men traffic in politics for base considerations. Politics mean sel- fish ness, selfishness means tyranny. Jealousy, spite and intrigue control politics so that the upright man re- coils in disgust from the ballot. Pol- itics lack dignity. Will they ever possess it? Intellectuality alone .will

T I-IE CO,NCORDI ENSIS. 227 --.------- not give it, there '11 ust be a change o; character. National degenerancy surely is patent when .men regard an oath \vith contempt. To a contemplative mind the tyr- anny of the times is as varied as the colors in a kaleidoscope. Politics, alone, do not portend dissolution~ \'Freedom has become a drean1, re- ligion a trade, virtue a laughter and vice a business''. Society is a vast bundleofantagonisn1sin which wealth is the basis of division. But, ala?, \Vealth brings luxury, luxury . brings ease and ease brings tyranny! Every \vhere abuses are apparent. The grinding of the poor, the op- pression of capital and the develop- rnent of pride and dishonesty are universal. There is a vast growth in social concerns-a conflict be- tween powe~ and weakness, between light and darkness. In the rush of circumstances we bestow too little attention upon those elements ·which are most disheartening. Crimes cannot shock us too much but surely vice jars our better natures too little. Society is conservative in the ex- treme. The attitude of the wealthy, the unhappy tendencies of individual desire and the prevalence of egotisn1 are creating disaffection in every clime. In a word, to live is to fight and he has been a :mighty warrior who passes from life to death clasp- ing the flag-staff of victory. ------ ·--~- In the transit of time IS not that fair regent of Heaven, religion, be- set by adversity? There are not • ·wanting those who hurl invective· af- ter invective upon that force which has given definite form, syn1metry, and b~='auty to sociP.ty. Men would forcibly shatter the walls of Christian- ity by telling us that life is an illu- sion and eternity the drean1 of a crazed imagination. Antagonists of Christianity are destructive, not con- structive. They would obliterate without substituting. Convict thcn1 of error at the bar of conscience or society ·will fall back into frightful chaos with force as la-vv and self as God. vVe may well pause and :1sk our- selves \ where vve are, what we are and to what end we are tending! \ Are we alive 1o the actualities of the times? To-day as ever the few rule. The pr0blem is, ho'\V are the few to be ruled ? So long as politics are re- garded as the highest vocation, so long as young 1nen enter the arena 0 r life with the determination to be politicians) so long will governments be badly administered. What socie- ty, throughout the world, most needs is a clearer conception by the unof- ficial citizen, by the young men es- pecially of their true relation to the State. 1'he time for indifference to the actual condition of affairs i 8

zz8 'THF: COr~c·oRDIENSIS~ passed and daylight,. vvith its call for er prominent Greek L .. etter Societies vvise and upright n1e:n has dawned. ~n the various. colleges- in \vhich they TliE. PSI UPSIL .. ON FI~.ATE,R­ NITY. The scn1i-ccatennial celebration ~1f meeL 'fhursday evening wzns devoted to tb e literary ex erci .--es and the recep- tion. I ... ot1g- before eight ot clock the Leland Opera House was well filled~ the Psi Upsilon Fraternity took The fir.st two hundred and fifty seats place at 1\lban.y r,.1ay 23~ 24 and 25. 1'he hc:1J q uartcrs of the conven- tion Vv\~rc ztt the Delevan I-louse. Jt:arly ·ruesclay 1norni ng (May 22d ), de legates began to arri vc fro In the we.stcrn chapters-. By rfnesday night ov·er one hundred men1ber:; had ar- rived. 'fhe remaining delegates ar- rived early \Vednesday tnorning. Every chapter was represented. The business meetings \Vere held 111 thl:. Court of A.ppeals Chamber, Old Capitol. 'fhc first n1eeti ng was held on \Veclnesda y morning. 1'he exercises were opened by a salutato- ry address by Prof. Isaiah B. Price 'vVcdnesday evening a private his- torical n1eeting was held. Prof. Willard I-~\iske of Cornell U ni versity9 read an elaborate history of the Fra- tcrni ty fron1 its foundation in the old west college ( novv Union School, Schcnectadv) tJ the establishment .I of the Beta Theta Chapter at 'rrinity College in I 88o. Mr. Albert P. Jacobs, a protuinent Detroit lawyer, were reserved for the de1eaates. <::\:) The exercises were opened by the singing of the convention ode which was written by Prof. Calvin S. Har- rington of VVcsleyan University. 1~hen followed a short address by l-Ion. Alexander H. Rice (Union Chapter), ex-Governor of Massachu- setts. The poen1 \Vas by Prof. Hjal·p mar H. Bovesen of Co hun hi a Col- ~ lege, and the oration by the Hon. Joseph R. Hawley, U, S. Senator from Connecticut. The last of the exercises was an essay· on Secret Societies by the well-kno\vn humor- ist Charles .Dudley \!Varner. Several of the Psi LTpsilon songs were sung during the evening. 1''he reception was held at Bleeck- er Hall, immediately after the liter- ary exercises. It opened vvith a promenade dancing, beginning ~t I I P. M. and continuing until about 3 A. M. At r A. M. an elaborate collation was served in the club rooms of the Hall. At least six hun- read a statistical retrospection of the drcd persons were present. Fraternity, showing the co·mparative On Friday evening the banquet standing of Psi Upsilon with the oth- was held at the Delavan lfouse.

THE CONCORDIENSIS . • Psi Upsilon banquets were also helu by the Graduate A.ssociation of Bos- ton, Philade1phia 1 Chicago, Portland and Wilmington, DeL--Each send- ing greetings to the 1nen1bers at Al- bany. Hon. Hooper C. VanVorst (Union Chapter) Judge of the Superior Court of New York, presided at the Albany banquet. An1ong the many pron1inent men who responded to toasts were ex-G-overnor Rice, Sena- tor !-lawley, Prof. Goldwin Sn1ith. Judge Tourgee, Rev. Dr. Van Ran- salaer, Hon. vVn1. B Ruggles, Hon. John M. Wheeler, Prof. Willard Fis!<e, H on. San1ucl vV. Jackson, Prof. Hjahnar H. Boyesen, Hon. David Ward Northrop, .l-Ion. Elisha W. Taylor and Rev. Dr. Baker. Numerous telegrams were receiv- ed fro1n all over the country. Pres- ident Chester A. i\.rthur (Union Chapter) expressed his regrets by the foll,Jwing telegram : NE\V YoRK, May 23, 1883. T'o the !Jon ... Alexander H. Rice, Al- bany: I heartily regret n1 y inability to share with my brethren in Psi Up- silon, now gathering in convention at Albany, the enjoyn1ent of this evening's festivities; to them all and through them to all the mem- bers of our fraternity I send cordial greeting. Sing for lTI) sake the dear old refrain, '~Then till the sands of life are run, vVe'll sing to thee Psi Upsilon, Long live Psi Upsilon ! Psi Up- silon ! \ Cl-IESTERA. ARTf1lTR. The telegran1 was read by Senator Hawley. I mtnediatcly every un e arose and sung the lines above men~ tioned. ~fhe lines :tr~ taken from the Psi Upsilon /\.nthcn1 by Francis M. Finch~ Judge of the Court of t'\p~ peals anu the author of the well- known poetn, \The Blue and the Grav.\ .,/ The banquet closed at 3 A. lVJ. with the usual convention song. One of the pro1nincnt features of the convention was the presence of Judge Sterling G. Haclle y, Dr. Charles W. Harvey and George W. Tuttle, three ofthe five living found- ers of Psi Upsilon. ALUMNI M1~ETING. The annual n1eeting of the Alu n1ni 1\ssociation was held in the chapel Tuesday tnorning, June 26th, 1883~ at IO o'clock. Judge George _Fo Danforth presided and George R. Donnan occupied the Secretary's desk. No e ulogics of deceased grau- uates were deli\Tered. Hon. Charles E. Patterson, of Troy, Chairn1an of the committee, on officers, reported the following list : president, f--I 011. F. Danforth; I st v1ce president,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Benjan1in F. Dunning ; zd vice pres- ident, Rev. Nelson Millard ; 3d vice presid{;nt, Douglass Can1pbell; 4th vice president, Hon. llenry 0'. Chese- boro ; corresponding secretary, Alexander J. Thompson ; recording secretary, George R. Donnalil ; libra- rian~ I. B. Price ; treasurer, Jonathan Pearson ; councillors, Robert Earl, Warner Miller, G. M. Spier, Geo. F. Comstock, B. Platt Carpenter, Arnasa J. Parker, I\ienry Teller, Charles E. Sn1ith, vV n1. H. NfcElroy, C. A. \\ 7 a1- dron, Le11HH1 Thompson, J. L .. Baggs, David Littley Cornelius Van Sant- voord ; executive con1n1ittee, Henry R. Pierson, Samuel Hand, J. A. De- . ~ H.en1er, Rev. Alexander Dickson, Rev. John A. Lansing, Marcus T. Hun, M.D.; finance comn1ittee, Chas. B. Warring, W. A. Righter, A. F. Oln1stead, Fred. Blake, John E. Ashe; local con1mittee, John Foster, John Can tine, S. T. Ben edict, A. P. Strong,]. K. Paige, Dr. M; G. Planck. Upon motion, the report was adop_ ted, 67 ayes, 59 nays. A. motion to make the election unanimous was de- clared carried, n1any alumni voting ''no.\ Judge Danforth ruled that the class of '8o were not voters as their master's degrees had not been formally conferred. Hon. William D. Murphy 1noved a contrary resolu- tion, which was dec~ared out of order. An appeal was made from the deci- Sion of the chair, but the chair re- • fused to entertain it. 1'he trustees announced the appointment of Al- onzo P. Strong, George R. Donnan and Albert Smith as inspectors of el~ction. Harvey J. King, of Troy, presented Hooper C. Van Vorst's name for alumni trustee. Samuel Marsh, of New York, nom in a ted David C. Robinson. The ballot re- sulted: Judge. Van Vorst ............ r 22 ,Col. Robinson ............... I 59 'fotal ... 291-Robinson's n1aj .... 37. The votes of the class of '8o \.Yere reeeived, inspector Strong opposed. Fifty-two proxy votes were rejected. The class of '8o voted I 6 for Robin- son and I for VanVorst. Several C. E.'s were challenged and several votes rejected. After the result was announced the meeting adjourned to Memorial hall where the annual Col- lation was partaken of. At the din- ner a fine J uvet time globe was pre- sen ted to the College by the Rev. Mr. Johnson, President of the class of '8 3, on behalf of his class1nates. -- ----·-- ------ -------- --·· ~~Bditorial. '-0~\ T HE commencement season Of 's3 has passed and and among the many graduates just entering up- on the stage of action our \Alma Mater\ sends out 32 to swell the list.

THE CONCOH.DIENSIS. Each of the:;-~ young Alumni, ask, ed, vvould say that he felt glad to be through vvith his College course. Youth with its high hopes ever de- sires to press onward to more re- spoD:sible positions. The great world of life and action of which we have dreamed since boyhood stands ready ·to receive us, and soon, ah, how soon will we be swallowed up in the great gulf. We are young yet and do not fully appreciate the n1an y pleasures of that four years course which has been to us all a stream of sunshine and happiness. E're long when the cares of life are pressing upon us, then will we look back to the days at \Old Union n and sigh for them all again. May the ties which have bound us together in College,. tnay the associations of class room and campus, may the Love to \Old Unions\ walls, Love to her classic halls, Love to the light th_at falls On Eighty-three, be the means of guiding us onward and upward to a useful, christian tnanhood. W E are very much pleased that the. Concordiensis has fallen into such able hands as we be-· lieve the incon1ing board to be, and it still more delights us to hand over the paper to thetn with no in- cumbrances whatever. With a good list nf snhsc.rihers secured at Com- nlencement, with a body of men on the board who are good writers, everything stands favorable for a great improvement in the College paper. We wish you every success, in your power to attain. It is not an easy job which you have in hand, .so make up y()ur n1inds to work fron1 the beginning. We expect your pa- per next year to reach the standard of the best College papers in the Country. To all the Alumni whom · this edition may reach we beg you now to lend a helping hand to support the Concordiensis. Send 1n your sub~ scription if you have not already, so that you may all feel proud of \ Old Union's literary production. A s promised, we give in this issue ·the full list of games played this season. We have been able to sustain our past reputation, and have C()me off with flying colors. The three tennis Courts have each afforded much recreation to the own- ers, and we are only sorry that they did not make a trial of one another's skill. O UR readers will find all the Class Day Exercises except the poem. Suffice it to ~a y that we would have printed it if we could have secured the manuscript. Sor- rv that the Poet could not afford to

232 THE CONCORDIENSIS. intrust us \Vith his very able literary production. 1 N this n11 mbcr of the Concordi- . ens is is to be found the happen·· ings of Con1 n1enccn1ent \Veek. In editing such an edition vve have had no easy task It has been our in- tention during the entire year to keep aloof fron1 any of the discussions which have already caused so n1uch disquiet and hard feeling. \Vc have allowed nothing to creep into our paper which \Vould cast a slur on either President or Faculty. In do- ing thiswe ha~,·e acted conscientiously and we think have been sustained by the great body of our reaaers. Hav- ing pursued sucb a course so far dur- ing our editm·ship, we do so to the end, tbinkinK \VC have no right and no occasion to act otherwise. Every Alun1nus has his own views in the tnatter, and so we do not wish to say one wo,·d on the subject. Guided by such a course we only give the facts as they con1e to us by observa~ tion and reliable inforn1ation, hoping that tbe feuds which now threaten the very life blood of our noble insti- tution 1nay ere long be settled to the best interests of both parties and above all those of our Aln!a Mater. T H f: class of '63 deserves the es- teen1 of all \ Unions\ Alumni. The globe presented by them to the Colleg-e on Alumni Day, is the se- cond proof of their affection for Alma l\1ater, evidenced in the last few years. The first is fine bust ot Col. Peissner vvhich novv stands in the Men1orial Hall. W E do not like to speak un- justly of any n1ember of the class of' 8 3~ but \Ve cannot re- frain fron1 expressing the sentiment of the class with regard to those n1en who failed to pay their class tax. It is right and has always been the custom for every n1an belon rri n a- - b b to the class to pay this tax whethtr he left before Cotnmencement or not We thought each member of '83 re- cognized this and would con1e squarely up and pay , but we are sorry to say that some failed to do so.Not only so, but when a telegram ·was sent by the TreasurF·r to a dis- tant member, said member wrote a very uncalled for, insulting Jetter to the Treasurer. The position of Sen- ior Treasurer is a very unpleasant one and when he, in a very gentle- nJanly n1anner tries to do his duty he should certainly be treated in like manner. We hope that this matter will be straightened and that '83 will not have cause for hard feelino-s b against any of her loyal n1embers. -Prof. Webster expects to spend the summer in England.

THE CONCORDIENSIS~ 233 - ~locaL COMMENCEMENT WEEK. !'HE BACCALAUREATE SER- MON. - On Sunday evening, June 25th, the services of Con1mencement vVeek op~ned by the delivery of the Bac- calaureate Sermon in the State Street Methodist Chur'ch. The preacher, Rev Dr. Walton Batter- shall, Rector of St. Peter's Church, Albany. took his text fron1 Col. I r: 10-\And Ye are Compl~te in Hin1.\ I-Iis then1e was \Christ the Inter- preter of Man.\ After a very im- pressive discourse he closed with the following address to the Senior class : \Young men of the graduating class of Union College, there are two thoughts that gro\v out of my theme this evening which I wish to blend with my God-speed, as you go forth fron1 these venerable halls, in which so rnany before you have. forged the weapons \Vith which they have done tnasterful work, and achieved honor- able natne. That colossal figure of Christ must counteract the infidelity of the day. How will you resist the forces of evil ? A motive power for good must be more persistent than a rnoti ve power for evil. Next, the thought of incoming manhood. Vic- tory or defeat lies there in the smoke and the dust. He drinks strength to his brain to clothe himself with knowledge and power. We are the children of a splendid hope-a re- deemed and emancipated life. Re- vere your manhood as a sacred thing in the conflicts of life.'' CLASS Di\ Y EXERClSES OF '83. On Monday evening, June 25th, the Class Day Exercises of '83 took place in the State Street Methodist ~hurc~. The us~ers were kept busy tn seating lady fnends and their es- corts, but no one found trouble in securing gooC: seats. The class of- ficers were as follows : President, James Can tine ; Vice-President, D. J?· Addison; Secretary, J. H. E. Sand ; Treasurer, R. W. Dent ; Orator, John vV. Adams ; Historian, \V. \V. Belling-er : .c\ddresser, G. V. P. Lansing ; Prophet, R. H. Bene- dict ; Poet. L. J. En1erson ; B. B. J)irector, Frank Burton; Grand lVfarshall~ B. C. Sloan . Editors, J. R. Hard1ng, Concle Han1lin and E. H. Adriance. Music \vas furnished by Parlatti's Tenth Regiment Or- chestra, {.)f Albany, engaged tor the entire Connnencen1ent Exercises. All the officers who were to take part in· the exercises were present, except the Poet, L. ] . Emerson-the po.etn bei~g read, however, by the V1ce- President, D. D. Addison. MEETING OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES. During the session of the Alumni Association in college chapel on Tuesday, the 26th, the Trustees of Union College held their annttal n1eeting. There were present of the board, President Potter, Howard Potter, Joseph W. Fuller, Frederick Townsend, David Murray, Judge Judson S. Landon, Edward W. Paige, Rev. J. Livingston Reese, D. D., Silas R. Brownell, Thos. H. Feary, Thomas Featherstonhaugh, LaMott W. Rhodes, David C. Rob- inson Rev. Dennis Wortman, D. D., Rev. Wm. Irwin, D. D., Judge Platt Potter and Rev. J. T. Backus, D. D. The routine business of the meeting was disposed of and the Board ad-

.. I ! 234 THE CONCORDIENSIS. journed until after the Ah1n1ni ban- quet. vVhen the Board re-assembled in the afternoon the motion was 1nade and seconded that the ser- vices of Prof. Harrison E. vVebster, Professor of Natural History, be dis- pensed with. 1\.fter wann di:;cussion the n1otion was adopted by a vote of 9 to 8. A resolution to allow voting by proxy at the future n1eetings of the Alun1ni Associatron \vas then passed. rv1 r. Edgar M. Jenkins, l{egistrar of Union College and Sec- retary of the Board of rfrustees then tendered his resignation which was accept eel. Mr:. J e~n1es L \iVood ward, the recently appointed T'reasurer, also resigned. rfbe Finance Com- n1ittee was re-organized by electing n1en1 bers favorable to the President, to fi 11 the places of Rev. L. 'f. Backus and ] udge Platt Potter. COMMENCEMENT Di\ Y. A beautiful tnorning, WeElnesday, the 27th of June, invited. a lar :5e crowd to witness the Commencement Day Exercises of '83. ]'he platform of the church was occupied by Pres- iJent Potter, men1bcrs of the Facul- ty, Trustees of the college, the Chan~ cellor, l{ev. Richard S. Storrs of Brooklyn and visiting .. A.lumni of the college. Exercises opened with music by Parlatti's rrenth Regiment Orchestra and this was followed by the singing of the I I 7th psalm to the tune of \Old Hundred,\ the Or- chestra playing an accompaniment. Rev. Dr. Lansing of Brooklyn, Union '44, made the opening prayer. 1'he Orations then began, speakers and subjects as follows : Mr. John W . .t'\dams, Beltnond, Iowa.-Subject, \Hungarian Fidel- . \ 1ty. Mr. ] ames R. Bolton, Belha1n, N. Y.-Subject, \Crom·well·' (excused). Mr. Wn1. M. Gilbert, Willard, N. Y .-Subject, \The Mechanical age\ (excused). Mr. Willian1 K. Gilchrist, Sche- nectady.-· Subject, '' The ·Chivalry of the Nineteenth Century.'' l\!Ir. Conde Hamlin, \Vinona, Minn. -. Subject, \ Social Oligarchies.\ l\1r. John W. McCauley, Stanley, N. Y. !{elation of Science to In- cl us try\ (excused). lVlr. Franklin W. McClellan, Cam- bridg-e, N. Y.-Subject, \The South that L.ost.'' Mr. Geo.rge W. Sherwood,' Ball- ston, N. Y.-Subject, \The Irish Question \ (excused). Mr. ] ames l{. VanNess, Osbornes Bridge, N. Y.-Subject, \Progress of H.efonn.\ The Chancellor's address, by one of the ablest American Divines, was listened to with intense interest bv all. His theme, \ Beauty, Powe\'r and l\1anliness in the .An1erican Scholar,''' treated in a thorough com- comprehensiv·e style, left an impres- sion not soon to be forgotten. We regret not to be able to print it in full.- No degrees were conferred and diplomas vvere withheld until the latter part of the week. The prizes were conferred as follow·s : VvVarner Prize-Wm. J: Gilchrist. VInghan1 Essay Prize-Conde Hatn- lin. 1 unior Clark Essay Prizes-1st, Dow Beekman ; 2d, George F. Al- lison. 1 unior and Sophon1ore· Oratorial Prizes-] unior, I st, J. F. Delany ; 2d, C. B. Templeton ; Sophornore, Istv--Putman Cady ; 2d, Frank Bond. v.A.llen Essay Priz~s-rst, Conde Hamlin ; 2d, Franklin W. McClel- lan; 3d, ] ohn W, Adams. ./Blatchford Oratorical Medals-tst, John W. Adams; 2d, :F'ranklin W. McClellan. v Wilbur F. Watkins. Prizes for the best Essays on the Relation of Chris- tianity to Morality-awarded Ist, to Conde Hamlin ; zd, to Gulian V. I~ansing.

THE CONCORDI:r2NSIS. 235 --~ --~----~---~--- -- ·---- --Prizes for best Examinations in 4J. S. Constitution-awarded, I st, to Conde Hamlin; - 2d, to Richard \V. Dent; 3d, to }arr1es R.: Van Ness. COMMENCEMENT NOTES. -· --- nly nine Freshmen registered during Commencement examination. --Largest cro·wd of Alumni pres- ent in a nun1 ber of years. -The class of '8o banqueted at the Carley House, Tuesday evening, the 26th of June, and '6 3 t h e same night bad a .:;pread at the vVindsor, Albany. ----The class of '73 supped at Schun1acher's, in this city, the even- ing of the Alu1nni Day. -The appearance ofJ udge George W. Curtis, '20, on the hill Tuesday, was gladly welcon1ed. con1ing as he did, in b is roller chair. -The following among other jour- nals were represented at the college Alun1ni Meeting: N evv York Trz'b- U1te, Wm. H. 1\tlcElroy; New York Titnes, Frank DePuy ; N evv York Suu, Walter Benjamin; Albany Evening 'Journal, Chas. R. Sher- lock; Albany Express, Daniel Shavv; Troy Times, Daniel S. H·asbrouck ; Trov Telegra1n, Senator McArthur; An1.sterdam De11zocrat, Wm. J. Kline. The Evening Star and . the Daz'l;, Unio1z were also represented by members of the force. -Among the crowd of Alumni on College Hill, the 26th, were noticed Hons. Amasa J. Parker, H. R. Pier- son, E. D. Ronan, Rev. Patrick H. McDermott; Daniel Shaw and others. from Albany; l-Ion. Chas. E. Patter- son, Harvey J. King, T. G. Hamlin and others from Troy; Dr. C. C. - Joslin, of Johnstown and others. -After the voting for Trustee on .i\hnnni Day, the visiting Alumni, grztd uati ng class, representatives of the press and specially invited guests repaired to Memorial Hall for the annual banquet. Every table -vvas filled and many \vere con1pelled to wait or go without dinner. Music was given by Parlatti's Orchestra from the gallery. Judge Danforth presided and after dinner called for toastsfrom the classesof'23, '33, '43, '53, '63, '73 and '83. The class of '53 was the first to resp0!1d and then down to '83. 1\tir. Roswell Benedict gave a neat but short toast to ·· Olcl '()3.\ One of the features of the af- ter dinner speeche-5 was that of Rev Mr. J ohnso:1'.::; in which he pr~sented the globe el<;;ewherc spoken of in this 1s.sue. -After the exercises on Com. Day the 1-re~ident, 8 . number of the Alumni, and lady friends went immediately to Washburne Hall, and unveiled the !Jainting of Rev. Dr. \i\·ashburne. done by Huntington. The painting n1akes a grest orna.ment for the Library hall. -'83 may well feel proud of her Commencement Ball. 'fhe new buil- ding with the rooms of the two \vings made a most delightful place for the festivities. The system of charging admission proved an exce11ent plan and we would advise future classes to do the same. The music; floor, refreshments, promenading and general management was very good, and in the name of the Class we take off our bats to the ball Committee' who did their duty so n1 uch to their own credit and that of the college. -The President's reception was well attended. The cornet solo frpm the highest stars of t~e hall was a treat tot hose who heard. -8o's Triennial Bulletin is well edited and contains some very good hits on the stars of that noble class.

THR CONCORDIENSIS. -·On Tuesday evening the 26th of ff une, the Junior and Sophon1ore priz.e speaking took place in tbe State Street Methodist Church. The speakers. and their subjects were as fo.JlO·\VS : Sophomores-Mr. Frank Eond of Schenectady,. subject, ''the Rise of the R.epu blic ; \ lVIr. Putnam Cady ofScher1ectady,. subject,~' French Re- publicanism; '' l\1r. William Hutch- ioson of Thorndike, Mass., sub- ject,.\' Heroes of Adversity;'' ML W rn .. A. Jaycox of Garrison, N. Y., sn bj ect, ~~'The Victims of Circum- t ,, san ce.; .. Jun iors-Mr. John F. L1elaney of Albany, subject, \ Revolutions in Europe ; \ Mr. Benjan~in G. Chis- olm of Charleston, S. C., subject, H Mazzini ; \ Mr. Charles B. Tenl.- pleton of Albany, subject, \Progress of the Nineteenth Century;\ Mr. Henry C. Young of Schenectady, subject, 1 ' Jan1es H. Garfield. The building, as usual on such occasions,_ was ·crowded ; music by Parlatti's Orlhestra. -The following is the new Board of Editors elected at close of third term : Delaney, '84; McFarlane, '84, and 13enedict,-'S4; Cady, '85; · Mc- Sorley, '85, and Morey, '8 5. Vee- der' S6, and Lawler, '86, Mr. De- laney was chosen Chief Editor. -~---------- ·----~·-- CLASS GA.MES. -Athletics began this year by a series of class games. The first game of the season was between nines se- lected from '83 and '85 on one side and '84- and '86 on the other. The following is the score by innings: I 2 3 4 Total '83 and '8s . . o 7 0 s--I2 '84and'86 .. 2 I ~ I- 7 -· Next followed the games for the Yates championship Cup. The first game of the series was played April 24th, between '83 and '85. The score is as fo!l ows : I 2 3 4 '83. ~I 4 4 6 'Bs · ·S 2 3 o U1npire, James Fairgrieve, '82. S Total I-I6 S-IS -'fhe second game of the series between '8-t and '85 was postponed. On May f st the following game was p1ayer1 between '83 and '86: I 2 3 4 '83 .• 2 5 0 5 '86. ri 0 0 2 U1npire, Bayard Whitehorne, '82. s Total 2-L~ s- s --'The next game between '84 and '85 resulted as follows: I 2 3 4 S Total '8+··0 0 0 IO 0--IO '85 • .Q f I 0 2- 7 Utnpire, Bayard Whitehorne. -In the next game the Freshmen were easily defeated by the Sophs. The score is : I 2 3 4 S Total '8s . .I I 3 7 I-I 3 '86 .. 0 0 0 I 3- 4 Utnpire, B. Whitehorne. -The postponed game between '84 and ·ss was played on May 10th. The following is the score: I 2 3 4 '84. ·0 I 0 2 '85 .. o 4 0 0 5 Total D--3 I-S. -The following day the Juniors, although considerably used up from their last gan1e, met tbe Seniors for the first time this year. The game was very close, the score at the end of the fifth inning being the san1e for both sides. T'he score is : r 2 3 4 5 Total '83 • ·4 0 IO 0 3-I7 '84. ·3 4 2 2 6--I7 -At this time the interest for a \Varsity Nine\ revived and no other class games were played. The series will be finished next fall, '83 of course, relinquishing all claims. ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 237 -The players on the different nines were as follows; '83. McCauley, 2d b. ; Sherwood, ss. ; Hamlin, c. ; McElwain, p. : Sloan, rst b, ; Adams, 3d b. ; Hook, c. f. ; Van Ness, 1. f.; Ray, r. f. '84. Phillips, 2d b. ; Hale, 3d b.; Delany, p. ; Naylon, c. ; Neagle, s. s. ; Heatly, c. f. ; Barney, I. f. ; Jervis, 1st b. ; Greene, r. f. '8 5· Stanton, 3d b. ; Delaney, s.s.; McCauley, p. ; Ebaugh. r. f. ; Mitch- ell, c. f. : Ray, 2d b. ; Moulton, 1st b. ; Wands, l. f. ; Perkins, c. '86. Pierson, r st b. ; Dorwin, c. ; Fletcher, 3d b. ; Landon, p. ; Ham- lin, zd b. ; Pratt, 1. f. ; Edmunds, c. f. ; Gallien, s. s. ; Lamonte, r. f. --''VARSITY\ GAMEs.-As was announced in a former issue, the Directors decided at first not to play any this year, but being repeatedly challenged they finally consented and with only four days of practice and with five new men, played their first game in Albany, May 2 5, against a strong and well-trained nine. Fol- lowing is the score : LAFAYETLE VS. UNION. UNION. A.B. R. lB. T.B. P.O. A. E. ~~IcCauley, c.: ...... 5 o o o IS 6 I N.aylon, Ist b ....... 5 o o o Io o I McCauley J., r. f .... 5 o o o o o I McElwaine, c. f. . . . . 5 o r I I o o Pendergast, P· ...... 5 o o o I 4 o Fletcher, 1. f. . . . . . .. 5 I I I I I o Porcher, 2d b....... 4 o I I 4 2 o Hale, 3d b. . . . . . . . . . 4 o o o 3 I 2 Stanton, s. s ........ 4 o o o I 3 2 Totals ...•.... 42 I 3 3 36 17 7 LAFAYETTE. A.B. R. lB. T.B. P.C. A. E. Updegrove, 3d b • . • . 6 I I r 4 2 I Maurer, Ist b ....... 6 o 2 2 12 o I Drissell, c ........ •· 6 o 3 3 13 5 o Swift, c. f; . . . . . . . . . 6 o o o I o o McDowell, 2d b .... 6 o o o 2 3 I Douthett, s. s ....... 5 o o o o o 4 \Vhitmer, p ........ 5 o 3 3 o r 2 Smith, r. f. . . . . . . . . 5 I 3 3 2 I o Catnpbell, 1. f. ..... 5 o o o 2 I o Totals ........ so 2 22 I2 36 I3 9 BY INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 IO II 12 Lafayette .... o o I o o o o o o o o I-2 Union ....... o o o o o o I o o o o o-I First base on errors-~-~ Union 6, La- fayette I. Left on bases-Union 8, Lafayette 4· Double plays -Pender- gast to Poucher I, Whitner to Maurer I, Updegrove to Maurer 1. Passed balls - Drissell 3, McCauley 6. Struck out-Uni~on 10, Lafayette J. Two- base hits-- Mau ·er I. Umpire -W. S. Arnold. Time of game- T\vo hours and five rninutes. -The following day the profes- sional nine ofAlbanyvisited this city , and we were again defeated, but this was mainly due to the fact, that both McCauley and Pendergast w·ere nil- able to play their positions, which made necessary changes in the whole field. The score is: . ~ ALBA:KY. A.B. R. B. T.B. P.O. A. E. Blagg, c ............ 5 3 2 3 I3 2 .2 Flemming, s. s ..... 5 3 2 2 I 0 0 Batchelor, p ........ 5 .2 4 4 0 2 .2 Taylor, 1. f . ........ 5 I 0 0 0 0 0 Sheean, ISt b . ..... • 5 0 I I 8 0 I Dorsey, c. f ......... 5 0 I I 2 I I, Strickland .......... 5 2 0 0 0 0 0 Arnold, 2d b ........ 5 0 0 0 3 4 2 Goodritch, 3d b ... ·· 5 I 0 0 I I I ---- --- Totals ....... ·4S !2 00 II 27 IO 9 UNION. A.B. B. lB. T.B. P.O. A. E. McCauley, rst b.c.c.l. 5 I 2 3 5 I 3 Naylon, rst b. c ..... S 2 2 2 S 2 5 Flefcher, 1. f ........ 5 I 2 2 o o o McElwain, p. c. f ... 4 I I 2 r 4 2 Pendergast, c.f.,rb.p. 4 o o o S o o Porcher, 2d b ....... 4 o I I I 3 I Hale, 3d b. . . . . . . . . . 4. I I r I o 3 Stanton· . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 I o o I I I J. McCauley, r. f .... 4 I o o I I o Totals ........ 39 8 9 II 27 II I6 INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Albany ...... 2 I 3 2 o I o 2 1-12 Union ..•..•. o o o I o 3 3 o I- 8 Time of game-2 hours 5 minutes; Urnpire-· F. Maxon; Struck out- Unions r 1, .. l\lbanys 7 ; Two-base hits-McCauley, McElwain, Blogg. -~ For Monday May 28th, a game had been arranged with the Detroits of Detroit, but this was prevented by . ra1n.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ----- --------~------------~----~----------~~------~~--- --On Men1orial day Hamilton College visited us, and were defeat- ed by the following score : UNION. A.B. R. lB. T.B. P.O. A, E. A. lYicCauley, c .... 6 I 2 3 8 5 ') .) Fletcher, l. f .....•. 5 2 3 3 0 0 0 Porcher, 2d b ...... 5 I ~ 2 3 0 0 McElwain, 3· f.···· 5 I I I I 0 0 Pendergast, p ...... 5 I I I I I7 0 Naylon, I st b . ..... 5 I 0 0 II I 0 J. l.VIcCauley, r. f ... 5 I 0 0 0 0 0 Hale, 3d b ... · . ·. · · 5 2 I I 2 I 0 Stanton, s. s ....... 4 0 0 0 I 3 I - -- --- Totals ....... 46 10 IO II 27 27 4 HAMILTON. A.B. R. lB. T.B. P.O. A. E, Baker, 2d b . ....... 4 0 2 2 3 I 2 Dalzell, 3d b ...... · 4 0 0 0 0 0 I Barber, c. f . ....... 4 0 0 0 I 0 0 Rodo-ers 1. f . ...... 4 0 I I 0 0 0 0 ' Sill, Ist b ~ ......... 4 0 I I 9 0 4 Parsons_, r. f . ...... 4 0 I I 2 0 I Van Auken, p ..... ') 0 0 0 I I4 7 .) Donaldson, c ...... ') 0 I I 9 5 I3 j Lathrop, s. s ....... 3 0 I I 2 I 0 -- - -- Totals ....... 33 0 7 7 27 2I 28 INXINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Union ....... o o 3 2 o 2 I I I-Io Hamilton ... o o o o o o o o o- o Two-base hits-J. A. McCauley, McEhvain, I each ; Double play- Nan Au ken to Baker to Sill ; Struck out--Union IO, Hamilton I 3 ; First base on balls-Union 3 ; Passed balls -Union 2, Hamilton 3; Time of game- 2 hours 20 tninutes ; U n1pire -Chas. Vanderveer. -Two days la~er June rst \iVil- liams College of Williamstown, Mass. came over and victory again was ours. In regard to this game vve beg to say that the Williams paper unjustly made statements which it cannot prove. We deny tha~ they were hissed, we deny that the um- pire was unfair, we assert that they 'Zvere met at the dgpot by carriages. The score is given belo.w : OFFICIAL SCORE UNIONS. A.B. R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. McCauley, c . ...... 4 0 0 0 IO 0 0 Fletcher, I. f . ...... .. 4 0 2 2 I 0 0 Porcher, 2d b ...... 4 I I I 2 0 I 1\tlcElwain, c. f . .... 4 I 0 0 2 0 0 Pende.grass, p ..... 4 I I I 2 7 I Naylon, ISt :b ••••.•• 3 I 0 0 9 0 0 Neagle,_ r. f ........ 4 0 2 2 I 0 I Hale, 3d b . ........ 4 0 0 0 0 0 2 Stanton, s. s ......... 3 0 0 0 0 3 I - - --- T'otals ......• 35 4 6 6 27 II ·5 WILLIAMS. A.B; R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. Talcott, s. s ........ 3 o o o o I o Yates, c. f ........... 3 o o o I o o J. Safford, 1. f. ..... 3 o o o 2 o o Crowell,c .......... 3 o I I IJ 2 I W. Safford, 3d b .... 3 o I I o o o P. Blackmer, Ist b .. 3 o I I - 8 o o E. Blacktner, 2d b ... 3 o o o · 3 2 I Carse, r. f.. . . . . . . . 3 ·o o o o o I Hubble, p .......... 3 o o o o I2 I Totals ....... 27 o o 3 3 27 4 SCORE BY INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Unions. . . . ... o I o o o 2 o o I-4 Williams ..... o o o o o o o o o-o First base on balls-Unions I ; Earned runs-Unions r ; Struck out -Unions 8, Williams 6; Passed balls--Crowel12 ; Wild pitch-Rub- ble I ; U n1pire--}. F. ·Delan·ey ; Tin1e--2 hours and 6 minutes -The day following, J nne zd, \VC gave the professional nine of Albany a return game and after a close cnn- test were again success[ ul by the ap- pended score : ALBANYS. A.B. B,H. T.B. R. P.O. A. E. Fleming, s. s .. · · · · 5 I I I I 3 r Lanahan, c ...... · 5 I I o 7 I 2 Duff, Ist b ...... ·. 4 o o o Io o o Wells, 2d b ....... 4 I I o I o I Dorsey, c. f. ..... · 4 o o o 3 I o Meehan, l. f ....... 4 I I o o o r Mullen, p ... ·. · · · · 4 2 3 o o 8 o Goodrich, 3d b ... · 4 o o o 2 o o Chambers, r. f .. ·. 4 2 2 I o o o -- -- Totals ...... 38 1 9 2 2f I3 5 . .J UNIONS. A.B. B.H. T.B. R. P.O. A. E. McCauley, c . ..... 4 0 0 0 IO 3 I Fl-etcher, I. f . ..... 4 0 0 0 0 0 I Porcher, 2d b ..... 4 0 0 0 l 2 I McElwain, c .. f . ... 3 0 0 I 2 3 0 Pendergrass, p .... 3 I I 0 I 5 0 Naylon, Ist b ..... 3 0 0 0 9 0 0 Eeagle, r. f . ...... 3 0 0 0 I 0 I Hale, 3d b ·. · . · · · · 3 0 0 I 2 4 2 Stanton, s. s ...... 3 I I 1 I 3 2 --- ---- Totals ...... 29 2 2 3 27 20 8 SCORE BY INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Albanys ...... o 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0-2 Unions .....•. o I 0 0 2 0 0 0 0-3

THE CON.CORDIENSIS. 239 First base on errors-Albany 5, Union 4· First base on called balls-· U n- Ion I. Left on bas~s-. Albany 8, Union 2. Struck out-' Albany 8, Union 5· 1\'wo base hits --Mullin I. Double ,plays-Dorsey to Good- rich, 1 ; :\[cCauley to N aylon, 1. Passed balls-Larahan 4, N cCau- ley I. U mpire-Mt' .. Batcheller. 1\'ime of game-Two hours. -l\1onday June 4th, we play~d in Johnstown. On account of rain we played only five innings, the score by innings being as follows : I 2 3 4 Unions ........... o I o 2 Johnstown ........ o o :1: 2 5 2--;;5 0--3 -Wednesday June 6th, we gave Hamilton College a return game. Our reception at Clinton calls for this public acknowledgement of ap- preciation and thanks, Appended is the score: . U~ION COLLEGE. A.B. R. IB. P.O. A. E. McCauley. c ............ 5 I o IO 3 o Fletcher, c. f . . . . . . . . . . . 5 I 2 o o o Porcher, 2d b.. . . . . . . . . . 4 I 2 3 o I McElwain, 3d b .. · ... ·· 4 I o o 3 o Pendergrass, p ......... 4 I I I o I Neagle, 1~. f ............ 4 o I o o o Jarvis, 1. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 o I I o I Hall, Ist b ............. 4 o 2 Io o o Stanton, s. s ............ 4 o I I 4 I Totals .. · ........ 38 5 Io 27 Io 4 HAMILTON COLLEGE, A.B. R, IB. P.O. A. E. Dalzell, 3d b ..•........ 4 I I 2 o I Baker, 2d b ............. 4 o I 2 2 I Sill, Ist b .............. 4 o I Io o o Rodger, 1. f ............ 4 o 2 I o o Barber, c. f. . .. • . . • . • . . . . 4 o o I o o Parsons, r. f.. . . . . . . . . . 4 o o I o o Vrn Auken, p .......... 4 o o 2 2 2 Donaldson, c ......... ·· 4 o I 4 5 2 Lathrop, s. s ........... 4 o o I 2 o Totals ........... · 36 I 6 24 I I 7 INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Hamilton ..... o o o o o I o o o--I Union ........ o o o 2 o I 2 o . o-5 First base on errors, Unions 4, Hamiltons 3 : earned runs, Hamilt- on I ; left on bases, Harnilton 7, Unions 8; total base hits, Han1ilt- on 7, Union 12; 3-base hits, Pender- grass I ; 2-base hits D·Plzell I ; passed balls, Donaldson I ; out on strikes, Hamilton 10, Union 8, time of game, I :27. Tmpire,, John P. Morrow. -The day following the nine went to Utica, intending to go on, and play the Syrcuse University Nine on Friday, but the Managers of the latter telegraphed not to come Fri- day, because it was raining there, Thursday. This was a ~trange and ttnheard of reason for breaking an eng;agement. -Tuesday following June I 2th we again played in J ohnstown,-append- ed is the score ; JOHNSTOWN. A.B. R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. Hennesey, rst b .... 4 I I I Io o I Eagan, l. f. . . . . . . . . 4 I o o 2 o o Case, s. s .......... 4 o o o o I o Bannister' 2d b. p .. 4 o I 2 I 6 2 Caven, c ......... ,. 4 o I I 7 4 5 Argersinger, r.f.2db 3 o o o 6 3 o Finnegan, 3d b ..... 3 o o o 1 o I Welch, c. f., r. f .... 3 o I I o o r Ball,p.,r.f,'c.f ... 3 o o o o 2 I To ta 1 s • • ••••• 3 2 2 4 5 2 7 r 6 II UNIONS. A.B. R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. McCauley, c ....... 6 I 2 2 7 2 o Fletcher, 1. f . . . . . . . 6 2 I 2 I o o Porcher, zd b ...... 5 I o o 4 I I McElwain, 3d b .... 5 o 3 4 I o o Penpergrass, P· .... 5 I I I 2 I2 2 Naylon, Ist b ....... 5 2 2 3 II I o N eagte, c. f .. ·.. .. .. 5 2 I I o o o Anable, r. f ........ 5 3 3 7 o o I Stanton, s. s ....... 5 2 2 2 I 3 I BY I~NI:N\GS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Union .....•. I 3 o 4 o o 4 2 o- I 4 Johnstown .. o o o 2 o o o o o-- 2 Home runs-Anable one. Double plays-Porcher to Naylon. Passed balls-McCauley 1, Ca- ven I 2. Earned runs-Unions 6. First base 01~ errors-Unions 5, J ohnstowns 4. First base on called balls-U n- ions 3; J ohnstowns I. Total balls called on Pendergrass so, Ball and Bannister I o6.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Struck out-Pendergrass 5. Ball and Bannister 4· Total strikes called--Unions 1 1, J ohnstowns I o. Left on bases-Unions 6, ] ohns- towns 3. Two base hits-Fletcher, N aylon, Anable and Bannister. Tin1e of game, 2 hours, 5 n1inutes. Umpire-.).1 r. Jones, of Amster- dam. -Thursday, June 14th, we met del eat at Williamstown owing to costly errors at critical n]oments. The grounds there are difficult and uncertain to play on. rfhe scor,e is gi \·en belo\v : U~IO~ COLLEGE. A.B. R. IB. T.B. P.O. A. E. 11cCauley, c ... · .. · 5 o 2 2 12 I I Fletcher, 1. f. ..... 4 I I I 0 0 0 Porcher, 2d b ...•. 4 o I I\IcEl \vain, 3d b. . . . 4 o r I 2 I 3 I 2 2 I Pendergrass, p.... 4 o I I I 6 I Naylon, Ist b •.•.•• 4 I 2 2 8 I I Neagle, r. f ........ 4 o I I 0 I I Jarvis, c. f ........ 4 o I Stanton, s. s ...... 4 1 2 I I 0 I 2 I 3 I Totals ..... ·37 3 12 I2 27 IS Io WILLIAMS COLLEGE. A.B. R. lB. T.2. P.O. A. E. W. Safl\ord 3d b .. · · 5 o 3 3 o o o Talcott, s. s. . . . . • . . 4 o I I 1 1 3 Yates, c. f. . . . . . . . . . 4 I I I I o o J. Safford, I. f ....... t o o o o · o o P, Blacktnan, 2d b ••. 4 o I I 2 1 2 E. Blacklnan, 2d b .. 4 o I I 2 I 2 Carse, r. f. . . . . . . . . . 4 o 2 2 I 3 o Hubbell, p ........ ·. 4 I 2 2 2 3 o Ketchum, c .....•... 4 I I I I2 3 2 Totals ....•... 37 4 I2 I2 27 I2 9 First base on errors-Union 5, \Villiams 8. Called balls-off Union 40, Will- iams 49· Struck out-Union 10, Williams 9· Strikes called-Union I 3, Will- ian1s 1 3· . Left on bases-Union 7, William 6. Passed balls-Union I, William 3· Wild pitch-Union I. Time of game-two hours. Umpire-Holt, of Willian1s. -The next·day, Friday, June I 5, the season was closed by the game --- --·----· ·~- on the Campus with the Johnstown Nine again, and for the third time we were successful by the following score : JOHNSTOWNS. A·B·R·L·B•T· B.p. O·A·E· Bannister, 2d b.··· 4 r 2 2 4 3 I Jones, c. p ...... · · 4 I 2 2 6 4 I Argersinger, s. s •• 4 o I I I 2 r Parmentier, I. f., c 4 o o o 3 o r Welch, r · - • • • • • • • • 4 I I 4 2 0 I Nlurphy, c.f:,p.,l.f 4 o o o 2 8 1 Sageman, 3d b · · · · 4 I o o o o o Pierce, rst b · · . · .. · 3 I 1 I 5 2 o Ball, p., c. f... . . . 3 o I I I o 2 ~ .. . . . . Totals ••• · · ·34 S 8 8 24 I9 8 UNIONS. A·B·R·IB·T·B·P·O·A·E· McCauley, c ....... S r I 2 I2 3 I F 1 etcher, 1. f. .. . . . 5 2 2 3 o o o Porcher, 2d b • • • · · · 5 3 2 4 2 2 o McElwain, c. f.··· 5 2 2 4 o o o Pentlergrass, P· . · · 5 I I I I I2 2 Naylon, Ist b · · · · .. 5 2 3 3 8 o I Neagle, r. f .. · •. ·· 5 2 5 5 I I o Hale., 3d b. . . . . . . . 5 r o o I 2 r Stanton, s. s. . . . . . 4 o o o 2 I I . . . . Totals ...... 44 I4 I6 22 27 21 6 SCORE BY INNINGS. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Johnstowns .. o o 3 2 o o o. o o-- s Unions •..... I I 4 o I 2 5 o *-14 Strikes called off-Pendergrass 5 ; Ball, lVIurphy and Jones 7. Balls called off-Ball, Murphy and Jones 57 ; Pendergrass 59. Passed Balls-] ones and Parmen- tier, 2 ; McCauley, 2. Double plays - Pendergrass to Porcher to N aylon, and Neagle to McCauley. Two base hits-- McCauley and Fletcher. Three base hits-Porcher and Mc- Elwain. First base on errors-} ohnsto\vns, 2 ; Unions, 4- Earned runs- J ohnstowns, 3 ; Unions, 3· Umpire-- Whitehorne, Union. Scorer-} ervis, Union. Tin1e of game-two honrs and five minutes. NOTES. Seven games won out of ten play- ed. The season lasted twe11 ty-two days and expenses amounted to a

TI-lE CONCORDIENSIS. 241 -- ------------- -~--- ------------ little less than six hundred dollars. Syracuse would neither play nor pay any part of the guarantee, and also gave out that it was Union, in stead of Syracuse, who broke the engage- Inent. Lafayette tried to deceive both Williams and Union, respecting their three hired players. Financially, the season was a great success, the Manager requiring only $I z8.oo in addition to gate receipts and guarantees, where $293.00 were used last year, and, also, more gan1es were played abroad. :., .. EIGHTY'S TRIENNIAL. The commencement season just closed has been a metnorable one in the history of the class of '8n With the exuberance of class spirit which always characterized them, and a unanimity of sentin1ent almost vvith- out precedent, fully four-fifths of the graduated class, as well as many others who left its ranks before gra- duation, assen1bled to celebrate its triennial anniversary. Early in the week before commeucement the members of the class began to arrive, and the intervening days were spent in convivial meetings,and in reviving the scenes and associations of the college days. Prof. Webster's study was hospitably thrown open to the class, and \Vas used bv them as their h~adq~1arters. A large and complete triennial catalogue has been pub- lished, giving with minuteness the past graduate history of each of the m e1n hers of the class. On alumni day the class assembled in a body to exercise for the first time their right of suffrage in the election of alun1ni trustee. When the attempt was made to disfranchise the entire class on the pretext that they were not entitled to their rnas- ter's degree until the following clay, the·ir expressions of disapproval and denunciation were both loud and deep. After much discussion, how- ever, ~he votes were finally r~eceived, and w1th a single exception, the vote ·of the class was a unit in favor of the re-election of Col. Robins on as trus- tee. After the result of the election vvas announced the class met around a reserved table at the alumni ban- quet, . aud did ample justice to the c?llation. At . I I o'clock Tuesday n1ght, they again assen1bled around the fest~ve board at the Carley house, and amid hilarity and rejoicing cele- brated their triennial class supper, and followed it with the feast of rea- son and the flow of soul. F. T. Rogers presided as toast-master, and did it gracefully and well. Owing to the lateness of the hour and the enforced departure of some of the boys, the list of toasts was shortened. Muhlfelder responded eloquently to the toast, \Old Union,\ and feeling- ly voiced the sentiments of the entire class in the loyalty to their al1na mater and their hope that order would soon be restored out of the present confusion. Landon responded to the comprehensive toast, \The Profes- sions,\ and was frequently inter- rupted by detnonstrations of merri- ment and applause. R. D. Anable spoke in behalf of \The First Dadd y,\and at the close of a congrat- ulatory address awarded the \ baby prize,\ a neat silver cup, to its for- tunate winner, E. S. Godfrey, who, in response to the toast, ''The Proud Father,\ accepted the cup with a few happy and appropriale remarks. The concluding toast of the evening, \The Class of '8o/' was responded to by the president, R. C. Alexander. During the afternoon it became knovvn that Prof. Webster had been dismissed by an accidental maJOrity of Potter sympathizers in the board

THE CONCORDIENSIS. of trustees, and their action, see.m- ing to the class generally to be_ prompted more by feelings of revenge than by interest in the welfare of the college, was heartily disapproved. Later in the evening the class · unanin1ously adopted the following resolution : WHEREAS, We have learned with sincere regret that Prof. Webster's official connection with Union col- lege has been tenninated, and WHEREAS, We believe that some expression of our strong attachment to our loved instructor of f0nner years \vill be gratefully received by him ; be it Resolz•ed, That we offer this pub- lic testimonial of the esteem in vvhich we hold Prof. Webster, and declare our honest belief to be that as an instructor he is unsurpassed within our experience ; that in his devotion to the proper development of the character of his pupils, he. has been ever actuated by a sincere desire to accomplish lasting good, and that whatever may be the outcome of the present unsettled condition of Union college, and wherever business incl- inations or duty shall call our gu~de, companion and friend, he will always carry with him the sympathy, regard and deep-rooted affection of the class of '8o. A resolution of thanks to the com- mittee who had compiled the trien- nial bulletin was then passed with the usual unanimity, after which the meeting ·was fortnally adjourned till the decennial meeting in 1890, and the class separated an1id mutual re- gret that the re-union was so soon ended. '8o. OBITUARY. ALBE,R'f MO,ORE WESTING-- I HOUSE. l The tmembers of the class of '83 will be surprised and pained to see recorded in this Commencement Number the death of one of their former classmates. Almost before the class has fairly left the walls of Old Union one of its men1bers has been ~trick en down, at the very opening of what seetned a most prom- ising career, ) VAll: ert Moore Westinghouse died at the residence of his parents, at Schenectady, on Sunday, the 15th of July, 1883, in his 22d year. Early in the spring of 1882 he was com- pelled to leave college, having con- tracted, as was then supposed, noth- ing more serious than a severe cold. rfhough given the best of attention and care he grew worse and soon it becatne evident that he was threat- ened with consumption in one of its worst forn1s. ~verything that could be done to stay the fatal ravages of the disease \vas done. He visited Pittsburgh, Pa., Denver, Col., Nor- folk, Va., the sea shore and various places in search of improvement and health. While at these various places he would feel some\vhat im- proved, but as soon as the stimulus of change wore away he would again fail. He was at his home, in this city, n1ost of last winter, feeling cheerful and quite strong. As spring came on he visited Norfolk, Va. and the sea shore, from which place he returned but a little over a week since, looking and feeling somewhat better, and his voice which had for some time been failing hin1 consid- .erably strengthened. On Saturday, however, an alarming change set in a v c b E t . 1 ' ( r ' f 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 243 and it was soon evident that the end was near. Those of his friends who could be reached were called to see him and to tbe others he wished a good-bye said. On Sunday morn- ing he died. l-Ie -vvas conscious be- fore his death and while desirous of living he was ·willing and contented to leave this for another world. He was, through his long sickness al- way~s confide. nt and fought a. brave fight \ bile in college he took the sci- entific course in which he showed the greatest proficiency, possessing in a remarkable degree n1echanical skill and ingenuity. His classmates ·will remei11ber hin1 as a quiet, stu- dious, honest and genial fellow, with a pleasant word and kindly greeting for all. He probably had not one single enemy in the whole college. With the professors in his depart- ment his talents \vere greatly ap- preciated. He entered college from the Clas- sical Institute. He was a member of the Psi Upsilon fraternity and universally beloved and honored by its members, to whom his death, though not entirely unexpected. will cau~e great sadness. His loyalty to and l·ove for his ·chapter was un- bounded and dt1ri11g his long illness the visits of his brother society men were a source of the greatest cheer and cotnfort to hitn. -The following is a list of '87 men already registered : Charles Backman McMurray, Lan- singburgh, N. Y. ; Edward Madison Catneron, Albany, N. Y.; Charles Arthur Marvin, Elizabethtown, N. Y. : Vernon E. Webster, Wilming- ton, Essex County, N. Y.; William F. Huyck, I .. eRoy, N. Y. ; George Wentworth, Sandy Hill, Washington County, N.Y. ; Willian1 Van Doren, Scotia, N. Y. ; Ceorge Warren, Fur- beck, Little Falls, N. J. -Mr. Anable will remain as tutor next year. -A meeting of the Trustees has been called for the first week in August. -By mistake, the article \Tyr- anny .of the Times,'' failed to be marked, \Oration by J W. Adams.'' -'8o's Bulletin contains editorials on 59 men. -List of the Alumrii of Union College \vho have died during the year ending June 22, 1 883 : '18. Rev. Samuel Van Vechten. '19. John B. Duane. '2 1. Charles Bartles. '21. Elijah H. Kimball. '22. John Sanders. '24. Alonzo Chittenden. '24. Rev. Freeman P. Howlancl. '25. Rev. John F. McLaren, :o. D. '27. Rev. Algernon S. MacMaster, D. D. '30. Rev. Sylvester Woodbridge, D. D. '30. Rev. Mark Carpenter. '30. Henry James. '34. Anson Bingham. '38. Daniel I. Rogers. '38. Rev. Alvi rfabor Irving, D. D. '38. Thomas B. Sherwood. '38. Stephen L. Magoun. ~ 39· .. l\.m brose Wager. '41. Charles B. Lawrence, L. L. D. '41. Rev. Josiah Obear. '43· Rev. N. A. Okeson. '44. William J. Niles. '46. Rev. Alexander B. Can1pbell. '47. i\lbert C. Ingham. '47. Rev. Henry Allen Austin. '48. Charles H. Pierce. '49, Rev. Allan l\1cFarland. '56. Rev. Columbus Cornforth. '62. Rev. Mortimer A. Hyde. '69. Edwin A. Kingsley. -Prof. Webster has received a call to the chair of Nat. Phil. in Rochester U niv~rsity.

244 THE CONCORDIE'NSIS. --- --~-- --------------- ----------------- STATISTICS OF 'THE C~ASS ·OF- ·s~~;·, ==================~7=====================~==~~ ----- 't\r . I E-t· I ~ I -~ I _,U) ~I -~ I ' I • p. I ~ I -~ - A . I I Ul ~ f-t Co) II: .. ' I :;~:r ~ (..) ·t:4 A (!) E-t rt: z \\\i )-! - p E-t ~ f;l;;l. t-1 <1 E-t ~ 0 :I: E-t z 0-t '() en 1-i .. I \\'------ ' - J. W. Adams ..•..... S . .t '<1. 23 5 ft. 8 in. ! I40 De1n. Dlttch Reform' d. Iowa. Medkine. D. D. Addison .•... c. 20 s ft. IO in. ii68 Dem. Episcopal. D. c~ Ministry. E. H. Adriance ..... C. 266·ft. I tn. 185 Rep. Dutch Reform'd. N.Y. Law. W. W:. BeUinger •.... C. I9 S ft. 7~in~ 134 Den1.. Episcopal. S:. C .. Ministry. R. A. Benedict .•... C. 27 S ft. 7 in. I 15 Rep. Congregational. N. Y. Law. J. R. Bolton ....•.•. C. 245ft. 7.7Zin.·14I Rep. Episcopal. N.Y. ·1\'Iedicine. F. Burton .......... S. 22_5 ft. 10 in.147 Rep. Congregati~nal,.: N.Y. Law. J. Cantine, Jr ...•.•. E. ~ 22 6 ft. I6o Rep. Presbyterian. N. Y. Engineer. D. M. Counterm1ne. C. 26 5 ft. 8)-~in. 138 Rep. Presbyterian. N. Y. Ministry. R. W. Dent ........ C. 24 5 ft. Io in. 14I Rep. Baptist. N. Y. Law. H. F. DePuy ...•.•. E. 24 5 ft. 9Y2 in. 147 .De1n. Presbyterian. N.Y. \'Engineer. L. J. Etnerson ..•... C. 30 5 ft, 'ro in. 165 Dem. Presbyterian. jDel. Literature. C. L. Franklin .•.•. C. 216ft. r_7~in. 154 Detn. Catholic. N.Y. Law. W. M. Gilbert ....• ~ S. 21 5 ft. 9~ in. L46 Rep. Episcopal. N. Y. Literature. W. K. Gilchrist .... C. 22 5 ft.·9}~ in. I43 Rep. - PTesbyterian. N. Y. Law. A. T. C. Ha~lin .... C. 215ft. ro in. 149 Rep. Episcopal. N.Y. Law. J. R. Harding ....... c. 2j 5 ft. IO in. I5o,Dem. Episcopal, N. c. Ministry. J. C. Hemphill ...... E. 24 5 ft. 8 in. t38 Rep. Bapt.ist. ,N, Y. Engineer)!. G. S. Hook ......... C. 2I 5 ft. 9}~in, 126 Detn. Episcopal. .\~N.-::V. Law. ., G. V. P. Lansing ... C. · 235ft. 8 in. 135;Rep. Episcop 7 al. N. ·Y-. Ministty. J. W. McCauley ..... S.&E. 22 5 ft. 9 in. rSs:Dem. PresbyteTian. N,· Y. Engineer. F. W. McClellan .... C. 255ft. ro in. r89 Rep. Presbyterian. N. Y. Business~ D. C. McElwain .... S. . 2I 5 ft. 9 in. r46 1 Dem. Episcopal. \N:· Y. Law. R. E. Morgan ...... S. 123 5 ft. 8 in. 1361Rep. Presbytel'ian. N. Y. Business. A. B. Nas? ......... C. 28 5 ft.r I,~in r58 1 Rep. Meth0dist. Conn. Ministry. A. W. Ray.· ....... S. 235ft. SJ6in. 157\Dem. Episcopal. S. C. Law. J. H. Sand ......... S. 22 6 ft. r75 1 Rep. Lutheran. N. Y. Medicine. G. W. Sherwood .... C.&E. 2I 6 ft.· r6o·Rep. Episcopal. N. Y. Engineer. B. C. Sloan ......... S. 23; 5 ft. gY2in. I45!Dem. Episcopal. S. C. Law. J.-R. VanNess ...... S. 225ft. gi!-1. I4S!Rep. Methodist. N.Y. Law. H. C. W?od ........ C. 195ft. 8 ~n. I30jRep. Episcopal. . N. Y. Law. J. C. Wnght ........ E. 29 5 ft. 9 In. 1531Rep. 'Episcopal. N. Y. Engineer. I .. .. , ~· Law, I 3 ; Ministry, 6 ; Medicine, 3 ; Engineer,_ 6; ljterature, 2; Business, 2. New Y~rk, 23 ; South Carolina, 3; North Carolina, 1 ; District Col- umbia, I ; Delaware, r ; Mirines6ta, J ; Connecticut, I ; Iowa, I. Episcopalian, I 3; Presbyteriaq, 8; · J)utch Refo1:med, 3 ; Roman Catholic, I ; Congregational, 2; Baphist, 2 ;: Lutheran, I ; Methodist, 2. Republican, 20 ; Democrat, I 2/ Average Weight,, I 53 pounds. : Average Height, 5 feet 9 inch,es. Average Age, 22 years. ,. Classical, 18 ; Scientific, I o ; Engineering, 4 ; Two Courses, 2. &'..../ Number now in Class, 32. Number entered in all, 57· t .

