THE CON·CORDIENSIS. ------·-- -~--- ---------~--- VOL. VI. ScHENECTADY, N. Y., jANUARY, 1883. No. 1\\l PuBLISHED MoNTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF,- JOHN R. HARDING, '83. Literary Department, Athletic Department, J. W. HIGSON, '84- Local D~partment, F. BAILEY, '85. ! 2. CLARK. '84. E. MITCHELL, '85. Personal Department, - Exchange Department, l Extranea Department, Collegensia Department. - ]. H. VEEDER, '84. E. H. ADRIANCE; '83. BUSINESS MANAGER-A. T. C. HAMLIN, ''83. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR, IN aDVANCE. SINGLE NUMBERS, TEN CENTS. ADIIRESS ~ A. T. c. IIAMLIN, P. 0. Box, 456, Sc!tenectady, N. Y: ~ The CON COR DIENSIS will be found on sale at Barhyte's, I I 1 State Street. Printed by Chas. Burrows, Steam Printer, 1S7 State Street, Schenectady, N. V. ---- -- ------ ~---- 73 77 84 - 87 ~lditcrial AGAIN the CoNCORDIENSIS greets its readers. With the beginning of a new year, we desire to make an ef- fort for improvement, and to this end we ask the active support of our con- stituents. During the recentrn()nths we have been assailed by almost co· stant complaints ; but the complain- ants did not consider that they were somewhat at fault. Our contenlpo- raries have many manuscripts to se- lect from ; here, \ve have non~. The average student seems t() think that editors are to make up this de- ficiency. He forgets that editors have as much collegiate work as the average .student. There are manv .I men in college to-day who are able to write for the paper. If they do not because they have no time then - J let them not blame the editors. If they have the time, and do not write, I then they should not complain of the ' 0 Editorial Deparbnent, Litentry Departtnent, Local Department, - Personal Department, Collegensia Department, Extranea, \ articles. This paper is -a represent-· 88 1 .. ative of the students, and is so con- Exchange Department, sidered and criticized. It is not sup- J?OSed to be the work of the editor.

\ 74 THE CONCORDIENSIS. If the students, therefore, wish a pa- per which will eompare with cotem- poraries, let them reflect that they must exhibit some interest. We know our sins are many, but the load has been left entirely on our shoul- ders, and the reward for bearing the burden has been continued fault finding. WE ASK our readers' pardon for being so late with this issue of the pap~r. The editors were not back at work until the 8th, and, of course, everything had to be done after that thetn onward until a point is • reached where they forget the in-- citement and see only the good in itself. AN ARTICLE appeared, some time since, in one of the city papers to the effect that the Philomathean De- bating Society was fast dying, and that no meetings had been held this year. This statement, made with so n1uch assurance, mingled with sarcasm, must have caused in- dignation and sadness among the friends and Alumni of the society. time. In the future \Ve are deter- But we should like to know from mined to be out by the I 5th. The delay has also been partly caused by waiting for a new press. -Mr. Bi.1rtows, the printer, has just put up a No. 3 Universal, capable of print- ing four pages at once. He is now prepared to do any fine work which the students may desire. IT is with pleasure that we read a notice in the Star stating that an al- U11l1tus had established a salutatory prize in commemoration of his fa- ther. Our prizes are ~ery few, and an addition to their number is gladly welcomed. While we discounte- nance the pursuit of knowledge for for any other consideration than a desire. to 1 possess it for itself, we know that many are influenced by other considerations. For these in- ducements are benefic.ial in inciting what source the information was ob- tained. Nothing could have been more false. The slur of malicious- ness would seem to indicate that it originated in the fertile brain of the writer, or at least that he was too ready, on any authority whatsoever, to publish 'such intelligence. At all events, people should know whereof they \Vrite, and the ·fabrications of this kind would never get abroad. We notice this, not that any enor- mous injury has been done, but be- cause we think those interested . should be told the truth of the mat- ter. The facts are as follows: For some years past, the society has been in an unfortunate condition, resulting from reasons whic.h need not be enun1erated. But for the last two years, men, inspired with zeal, have been struggling to upbuild the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 75 fallen structure on its o~d founda- hope the students will apply for tion of infl1:1ence and superiority. The success has been great. The this roon1, as it will be n1uch more I. comfortable than the cold one now \Old Halls'·' have ag~in re-echoed. occupied. For the reading-room it is with carefully prepared speeches. proposed to have the second one The seats have again been filled with ardent tnem hers. The library has been increased, and the glow of work goes on rapidly. The pros- pects are, that, at a time not far dis- l tant, the former standard will be reached. Notwithstanding the statement tnade in the article referred to, meet- ings have beenheldregularly,withfew exceptions, since· the beginning of the present college year. So, we hope no such rep~tl rt will be again circulated, and that this state of af- fairs will better satisfy the 1friends of this, the oldest and most time-hon- ored of our college debating soci- eties. IN conformity with the wishes of donors, President :.:fotter offered to furnish rooms in the new building for the rei igious work of the college and for,the students' reading-room, should they desire it and the trustees ap- prove it. The president thinks, how- ever, that the rooms now used for re- ligious work, being in the college building will render the old arrange- ment for that purpose more conven- ient to a larger nurn ber of students. He offers still to furnish a reading- room, if it can be obtained. We fron1 the library, in the s~uth _ wing. This being near the library, ·will be a convenience which has long been needed and wished for. Then, if the library is opened every day; there will be that pleasure and profit in obtaining books which ought to be a1lowed every student in college. The reading room then would be the place most soug-ht after by every man. There has not been that interest in the Christian work of the college this vear which was shown last. This ~ ' . work, which is voluntary with every man, should not be overlooked. The classes, for several years back, have had weekly meetings, and the under- class men ought now certain! y to fol- low the example. The room for the meetings is even no\v comfortable, and if a little energy is shown, a fur- nisheq room in the new building can probably be secured. There is noth- ing more beneficial to a college than a good moral tone, and this is furth- ered by quiet religious meetings. A MEETING of the college men was held on the 18th of December, and a comn1i ttee appointed to consider the advisability of having a fair for the

76 THE ·coNCORDIENSIS, benefit of the base ball club. It is of your brethren,~ most noble sirs ! With meek condescension, we would beg you to have mercy upon us. welt known what a success the fair ~ was last winter, and we hope that, with the co-operation of the ladies, it can again be made a success. It is proposed to hold it after the Lent- en season, and to conduct it in somewhat the same manner as last ye~r. Mr. Benedict, '84, has under- taken to superintend the dramatic part of .the week; and, together with a few of his amateur friends, hopes · to furnish \fun for the million.\ The manager has written to the Nttw York colleges \vith regard to there- ' vival of the New York State Inter- Collegiate Base Ball Association, and has received favorable answers from severaL Union has certainly done her share in the base ball arena in the past, and, with one voice, we beg the ''Varsity\ to press forward again to the battle, and sustain her former record. Every student who is able should patronize the fair at least one evening, and have the satisfaction of helping along the \nine.'' WE noticed an article in one of our exchanges, some .time ago, lecturing another college paper for its unjust criticisms. The offense taken was a just one, when one or two of our college papers set themselves up as immaculate models, before whom all must bow down and worship. You must not so scorn the feeble efforts IT is not often that a cliass becomes so zealous in the study of metaphys- ics that they desire to persue an elective course in it as an extra study. Such a thing bas happened, however,. and about fifteen Seniors, or more than one-half the regular class, are devoting extra work to Ivlill's syste.m, under the guidance of Prof. Webster. After a term's work in the Hamiltonian philosophy, this course is designed to give the stu- dent an unpr-edjudiced vie\V of both systems. It is a complin1ent to the professor who can awaken such an interest in what is usu3:lly considered a dry study ; but it is no less a credit to the ability of the class that are de- sirous of pursuing such a course. WHATEVER Dr. McCosh chooses to speak upon, his utterances are al- ways keen and interesting. He has lately condemned the plan of giv- ing so much time and money to ath- letics. The New Y ()tk Herald, the champion of pugilists., oarsmen, etc., cast, editorially, those old remarks about \consumptive looking stu- dents'' upon him. The doctor's stand, however, must have the sup- port of all thinking men. He did not intend to discountenance physi- cal exercise itself, but the excess to

' d 0 .THE CONC:ORDIENSIS. 77 which it is carried in the large col- .-!eges. Men come to college to study, presumably, and time g'iven to pre- pare for public contests is time lost to them. A certain a,mount of exer- ·cise is necessary, but the excessive developn1ent of the body is marked by loss of intellectual activity. We are, for our part, pleased with the doctor's crusade, and hope that the time is not far off when men will not go to college to cultivate their mus- cle, as ·'that can be accomplished at home, if desired. WE refer with reluctance to the mistakes of last issue, only to pront- ise that another such a typographi- cal mess shall not be issued under the name of CoNCORDENSIS. THE NEVv YEAR. Old time, the harvester of fates, Hath garnered him another sheaf; Some fl.owt:rs of joy, some weeds of grief Hath carried back through memory's gates The buds of hope tha~ never blew. The fruits of love that ripened not, The ~mbryo schemes that thought begot Hut which no dawn of birthday knew. AnJ lighter burthens from our back;, Clasped in his aged, skinny hands, He takes, whilst thought arrested stands And gazes on his fleeting tracks. Ere long within those rosy gp.tes, Grow lesser to our lingeting view The things of old, and to the new Hope turns her face and smiling waits. But from the pictures of the past Why cannot we our our future trace? Why ever any phantoms chase And reach no happy goal at last ? Blind hope is sure··to. lead astray. Her whispered promises belie 0 curtain of futurity, That I might tear thy film away ! Then woull I hope if hope were just, But if a haples~Jate were n1ine, 'N eatb fortunes frown forbear t0 pine And fall a man 1f fall I must. A MODEL INSTANCE. A NOVEL IN SIX CHAPTERS, BY JESSE JAMES HOWLS, JR. CHAP. I. THE BETROTHAL. A winter's night had just begun to enwrap with its veil of sombre hue the city of New York. The fluttering flakes of snow, tumbling head over heels through the air were rapidly covering every visible object, not even neglecting the steps of a certain dark looking house upon Sixth ave- nue. It was a peculiar house, rather of the Angelo style of architecture, with blood red curtains at its win- dows, giving it without the appear- ance of a pirate's liar. But lair or no lair, it is here our story begins. In the spacious front parlor of the above mansion Imogene Tightlacer, a beau- tiful girl of some seventeen sutnmers and a few late springs, reclined in a Patent Invalid chair. This young lady possessed two aspirants for her hand ; one, Icabob Coldheart, was her fath- er's choice, a stern cold man many years her senior, and for whom she

78 THE CONCORDIENSIS. had never entertained any affection stronger than respect. 'The other, first saw you at Widow Brovvn'sPhan- tonl party, I ,have thought of nought Cecil Silverspoon, was a young man else but of you. You have haunted -~1 of most engaging manners, whnm she had loved at first sight and her love was reciprocated, althou~h he had never openly declared his· passion. As· she sat tb ere she was indeed a fair, frail flower. Her sweet little mouth was puckered by a protrud- ing tooth-pick; one end of which was held fast in the crevice -of her front teeth. Her delicate hand played with the tail of her favorite Black and Tan. The liquid eyes incessantly sought the family clock, o~er which hung the notice \ y daughter re- tires at ten o'clock.\ The lips of the young girl moved, \eight o'clock and he is not here! what could have happened to him? To-night's the uight methinks I shal] learn from his lips what I have for a long time read in his eyes. My own C \ She ceased for a step sounded op the porch \vithout. The bell rang, and in due time, having deposited his beaver upon the hall table, Cecil Silverspoon, the· dashing boy of the ball-room, was ushered into her presence. With burning pathos depicted in every feature of his face, he gained her side and all the passionate outpouring fire of his love obtained relief in these words: \Imogene dearest, noblest of \vomen I love you ; since the time T me in dreams and have been my guardian-angel in my hours of wake\\ fuln.ess. My heart pours out to you Imogene, the tender effusions of a meek and confiding nature. Yes, I love you and you alone. Tell me darling, will you be my little wife?\ A sug_s·estive snicker was his only answer and at once those two trem- bling forms clung in mute embrace, so tight that the fair one's ribs crack- ed with the violent exercise, causing the dog under the table to prick up his ears and utter a mournful howl of syn1pathy. Reader let us withdra\v from this touching scene, leaving them en- twined in each others arn1s, held as it were, in a trance by the ecstacy of pure love. Never were the poet.'> words more fully realized, \what is love? Two souls with but a single thought, two hearts that beat as one. \ CIIAP. II. \How uncertain are the joys oflife.\ It was the morning following the night just recorded that Cecil Sil- verspoon sat in the chair of a tonsor- ial department on Broadway, under- going the delightful pleasure of a clean shave. He looked the perfect picture of health and happiness and as the tonsorial artist gazed upon

THE CONCOR·DIENSIS. 79 that fair brow he little thought that man. Oh money, money, thou curse it was soon to be distorted by a· ter- rible misery. The shave done, but not paid for, our hero stepped forth upon the street just in. time to hail a passing newsboy and obtain a morn- ing paper. He glanced over its sheets, suddenly his gaze became riveted, his face whitened, he stag- gered, reeled and fell headlong into a peanut stand. Upon the fron_t page he had read the following ''We learn that Miss Imogene Tightlacer, the daughter of one of our most ·respected citizens, has become the heiress of an im- mense fortune left her by an old uncle, whon1 every one supposed died some years ago a pauper. We extend our sincere congratulations to Miss Tightlacer on her sudden acquisition of fortune, and trust that she may live long to en oy it.'' CHAP. III. \He clearly saw his duty\ Seven o'clock found our hero pac- ing restlessly up and down his apart- merits. Could that be the gay Cecil whom we saw issue from the barber shop that morning ? A changed man he was indeed, his hair disordered, his face bearing upon it a heavy sor- row. Instead of the elastic step there was no\v a nervous stride. \Lost-lost to me forever !\' he cried, \possessed of fortune she ·will care little for a comparatively poor to man and, woman!. But now my mind is made up, although I sacri.,. fice all that is worth living for on earth, I will be generous and release her from an engagement which she must now think odious.\ He went to his desk, wrote the words \Our union is now impossible; I re- lease you\ upon a sheet of paper, folded it and gave it to a messenger to deliver. I ittle he thought at the time, of the grief which that note would bring to Imogene ; but then all lovers are more or less selfish. Cecil now began to prepare for go- ing out. · He exchanged the clothes and hat \vhich had suffered badly in the contact with the peanut stand, for more respectable looking wearing ap- parel, nor did he forget to slip a vi- cious looking derringer into his vest pocket. Thus equiped he sallied forth. \I will be a millionaire or a pauper by midnight,\ he muttered betw·een his teeth and forthwith bent his way to a \vell known gambling house, dealt cold hands with a friend for two hours and a half, and arose from the table a ruined man. His brain was in a whirl, he stag- g~red ; some remarked that he was drunk, but they erred for he was only paralyzed. Having once gained the street the fresh air revived him and he began to gaze calmly at his situa- tion. ..

80 THE. CONCORDIENSIS. He was without a cent in the world, the turn affairs had · taken ? Yes· something 1n ust be done at once. For several years he had been an ama- teur actor of great repute and think- ing that by taking advantage· of his natural talent he might at least keep his immaculate Jorm from\' the poor house, he resolved then and there to go upon the stage. How well he succeeded in his new . vocation we will soon learn. CHAP. IV. \Frailty thy name is woman.'' The next day the whole \vorld was agog ·over the mysterious disappear- ance of Cecil Silverspoon. The best detectives that the city afforded \vere _on his track, but no ·clue could be found. He had vanished like thin air. Meanwhile a terrific storn1 bad been raging in the breast of- lrnogene. His note, which she had read a dozen times before comprehending its full n1eaning, had cast a gloom over her bright young life. At first she was resolved to explain to her lover that, riches or no riches, she was still true to him, but on sec- ond thought this humiliation was more than the highminded girl could bear. All the pride of that sensitive nature rebelled against ever adn1it- ting him again into her presence. In a word she was stung to the quick. Was Icabob Coldheart, pleased \Vith he rejoiced with exceeding joy. He saw that his opportunity had· come, so he pressed his suit with ut- n1ost vigor, and poor [mogene piqu-. ed and driven to despair was forced to accept him. lea bob Coldheart now wore a . tri- umphant smile upon his face. In two weeks they were married. No one recognized the red-headed man with a patch ov·er his left eye ·who intently gazed upon the scene from the gallery. It \vas our friend Cecil Sil verspoon. CHAP. V. \Strange things do hapl?en in this world.\ Five years have gone by since the events of our last chapter. Our scene now opens in Chicago. It was a beautiful November night, that the elite had gathered in the Grand Opera House to witness the performance of ''The Two Orphans.\ It was the occasion of the appear- \ance of the celebrated actor Cecil f'ergusona, in the role of Pierre,· the cripple, supported by Kate Claxton as the blind girl. With a flourish of base drums and cymbals, the curtain rose and the scene opened before the eager house. Th.e appearance of Fergusona ex- cited a round of enthusiastic applause, to which he smilingly bowed his

THE CON·CORD·IENSIS. 8r acknowledgments. Reader_, you and I would have recognized. at once in Fergusona our hero, Silverspoon. He had not uttered tnany \Vords before a singular disturbance took place in the body of the house. A lady, clothed in widow's weeds, sprang to her feet, gasping .out : ''Those voice··! that eyes ! Yes, 'tis he!'' and, with a piercing shriek, fell fainting to the floor. Voices from the gallery cried, ''Put her out;\ \choke her off,\ etc., b.ut were soon hushed by the efficient efforts of the police. The lady was car- ried out by her friends, a:nd the play went on, bt1t throughout the whole of the evening, it was evident that Fergusona had been greatly affected by this little episode. ing~ he determined should be found within thDse two days, even if it cost him the whole of a dollar. That night our hero dreamt of fire, water and a small dog. Let us see if these things had any connection with the occurrences of the next day. CHAP. VI. \Amor omnia vincit.\ The next morning Cecil arose at an early hour, swallowed a hurried breakfast, and sauntered to the street, resolved to begin the search immediately for the whereabouts of his lost darling. He had not gone far before a little dog came trotting past him. It was the identical dog that was mentioned His acting lacked energy, and his in the first chapter of our story. Our face showed that a deep anxiety lay upon his mind, and frequently he was obliged to resort to a small pocket flask, in order to keep up his strength and courage. Tli~ curtain down for good, Cecil sought his manager, and begged hin1 for a t~o days' release from his en- o gage1nent. After a stormy scene, in which considerable stage furniture vvas damaged, he obtained his re- quest, and departed from 'the theater in better spirits. The beautiful Imogene, for she it was who had recognized him so sud- d~nly in the early part of the even- hero recognized it, and a brilliant thoLight struck him. If he were to follow it, 111ight not the animal bring liim to the residence of Imogene ? He resolved to try the experiment. The dog, perhaps divining the pur- pose of the man, now set out on a brisk run, Cecil following in his wake, with coat-tails floating out behind in the cool mor~.ing breeze. On went the dog; on went Cecil. Faster went the dog; faster went Ce- cil. People were rudely jostled, in his unceremonious haste. At last, after a runofhalfan hour, he saw the ani-

\ ' ' ,. I • THE CONCORDIENSIS, 1 h h f . d M. . 1 \h . d ma op up t e steps. o. a certain re~ \ 1ne\--mu1e at • as t e cne · and brick house. He made a note of its then ·in softer accents he whipered position, and then retired to the near- est lamp-post, to regain his. wind and meditate on the situation. Whi1e thus occupied, he heard the scream of a woman, and glancing in the direction of his darling's abode, he saw flames issuing from one of its windovvs. Firemen and engines now came qashing up the street, but 'Ce- cil vvas the man for the emergency. Undoing his necktie~ and tossing off his paper collar, with reckless in- difference to its destruction, he dart- ''whose pidgy are 'ou !\ ~'Yours forever, Cecil,\ she mu r- nlured in cooing tones, laying her · little head upon his shoulder, and her lustrious eyes spoke volum·es. There in sight of a thousand vulgar eyes they clung in sweet embrace. Little cared they for what society w, ;uld say of such a scene ; they scorned the base insinuations of the cruel world. Two hearts were thus united, two souls filled \chuck full to the brim\ with bliss. · Gentle reader,. if such you be, let u~ leave these two young lovers re- joicing in their great happiness. Their simple story so touching in its pathos affords us indeed> a Model Instance. FINIS. ---- --·-----. ------ -------·--- SOMETHING \VRONG. 1 Twas on a January day, vVhen snow and wind set all a-fog, As slow, I wound my shiv 7 ring way I heard this dialogue : EGO. . ·d to the rescue. Imogene was seen at a window in the fourth story, crying loudly for help. A. stream of water in the mouth soon quieted her, however. In thundering tones, he asked her if she could swim. \You bet,\ she cried, and forthwith Cecil ordered all the streams from the en- gines to be directed to the window. \Strike out!\ he yelled~ and the crowd, in amazement, saw the girl swim placidly down the stream of \Vater and alight safely upon the ground. # \ vVhat ails you, Muse ? Where is the tune:o Others followed, until the whole house was emptied. Cecil was the hero of the hour. At the next meet- ing of the citizens' fire committee, he was unanimously awarded the Fire- man's Rescue Medal. Meanwhile our hero had clasped our heroine to his lpal rit 21 ir g t ( ~ (, ~ c You thrummed, of old, so ceaselessly, The while you sang about the moon, And lovers 'neath a greenwood tree ?\ MUSE. \ Ah ! Love is dead ; the moonbeams fall I In vain o'er leaf and whispering bough. Ah, love is dead ! her silent pall O'er shades my heart and lyre-string now:·' EGO. \What ails you, pray? Where is the strain, So frolicsome, you once did boast? '

.. r y t s THE CONCORDIENSIS4 The -song you sang with might and nmin, So loud in praise of speech and toast ?\ MUSE. '' Ah, Hospitality is old! His battered bowl1s seldmn fillej; And with his touch so stiff and cold My songful soul is chilled.\ EGO. \ What ails you, lass ? Where is the blast, You bugled forth with· patriot flame, When from our army, lightning fast, · The news of vict'ry came ?\ MUSE. \Oh ! love of country flickers low, While love of lucre flashes, clear ; How can my patriot numbers flow, \Vhen no one cares to hear ?\ EG.O. \vYhat ails you? speak! Where is the chord. You softly woke in days of yore, When Christian Faith and God's dear Word, Had stirred your spirits core ·?'' MUSE. \ Ah ! Faith is but a false, false light, That shifts and shines, and shines and shifts, And never guides my feet aright, As, phantom-like, it scuds and drifts.:,' EGO. \What ails you, maid ? Where is the song, Y ot~ often sang in days gone by The hope that Heaven's radiant throng Receive the good who die ?\ MUSE. My song has ended in a sigh, My hope has sobbed a way it's breath ; I trust no more, that hosts on high, Will greet me after death.\ EGO. [aside]. \1 do believe, our hapless muse Is pestered with a fit of blues ; Else, he who tells what ails her, fickle, Shall be rewarded with a nickel.\ ZOR, '83. WHAT BOOKS TO READ. Models and records of all patents obtained in this country are preserv- ed in the Patent Office at Washington. This is done so that a newly rec·eived principle may be con1pared with those already patented; and if there is any great similarity between the old and the new, the new is rejected. It is strange to see how many aspirant In- inventors have their ideas; new to them, returned unpatented on the pround of infringetnent on old pat- ents. Thus in the mechanical and scientific world it is seen how old ideas, long ago considered in all their bearings, present themselves as new and are originated again in the brains of men. J 1.Tst so it is in the intel- lectual world. Men every day erig- nate thoughts which often before have been written in masterly works. Though they kno\v their thoughts have beon developed by others, they seem tD deen: it necessary to imn1or- talize themselves by appearing in print. This fact undoubtedly helps to account for the vast numbers of books yearly published, since we find many of them In ere re-statements of old thoughts~ which re-statements are greatly inferior to the antecedents. Standing in the midst of a large library, one would rightly feel full of bewildet:merrt and dispair, if it was not remembered that the sum and

I l- j f . i i THE CONCORDIENSIS, substance of the countless r~ages is contained in a few. The really vital books for one to read are a trifling proportj on of the whole. So then to know the best that has been thought and said, Car.,. lyle's advice n1ust be followed: \Books like ht1111an souls, must ac- tually be divided into v. hat we may ca11 sheep and goats-the latter tD be put inexorably on the left hand of the judge, much to be a voided and if possible ignored by a11 sane crea- tu~-es.\ It is \Vaste oftirne and study to read inferior repetitions,. mere --- -·-·· ~---- ··- ---. ----------- ---- ··--·- ----- .... -- Prof. vVebster spent the holidays \Vith his children and relatives. The Seniors will read JV[acbet!z:. with Prof Alexander this term. -Only fifteen students remained in college during the holidays. -In Latin examination : Soph. translates-\Dc1nissus Jzomo,'l \sent frotn home.\ -A Soph. defines a premise as usotnething drawn from a conclu- . \ Sl0l1. -Several of the students were patched up second-hand thoughts ; · down wl'th the · 1neasles during the and since people, especially college holidays. students,can read comparatively few books those which are rood shall be \the life blood of a master spirit.\ Our standard \vorks last for all time. They are just as powerful for good in one as in another age. Life is too short for experirrJental reading. Our books should be those which have been read, re-read and sanctioned by intellectuality. \Ve should go straight to the pure mountain stream, not to the river where the pure is n1ingled with the accumulated sediment of poorer minds. -Scene in Descriptive-In the -, projection of the earth on the plane of the equator, where would the point of light be ? Dr. J.-''The North Star.\ Sensation in class. -The first recitation in astronon1 y by the Seniors proved to be a siaugh- ter of the ignorants. -During the holidays, Prof. Web- ster visited New York, Washington and several other cities. Sop h., translating Horace-\ Sit 1nihi mensa tripes\-\Sit n1e on a three-legged table.\ -The engineers have taken up a new study-Stereotomy-the science of cutting solids into figures or sec- tions. -To those who are not acquainted in the city and who remained on the hill during the holidays, \Old Dorp\ offers few attractions. -Those who enjoyed roast turkey at home during the holidays find it hard work to settle down to board- ing-house fare.

jned oph. as the on1y a a sec- the key it THE CONCORDIENSIS. 85 -Committees have been appointed by both the Adelphic and Philoma- thean societies, to make arrange- ments for a joint debate. -The fifty-seventh annual con- vention and banquet of the Kappa Alpha Society took place at Del- monico's, New York, on 'fh ursda y, January 4th, '8 3· -At a general college meeting, held December I ·8th, the following committee was appointed to deter- mine the advisability of holding an- other college fair, viz.: Burton, '83; .A.ddison, '83; Wood, '83; Lan- sing, '83; \Tan Ness, ·83; Gilchrist, 83; Clark, · 84; Guion, '84. They are to confer with the ladies to obtain their co--operation. -At a rr1eeting of the Christian Union of the college, heLd W ednes- day, the 17th inst., a co1nmittee was appointed to collect money for sing- ing books. The co1nmittee have been at work, and have been so far very successful. Some endeavor should be made now to have music in the meetings. Where is the or- gan which was in chapel last year? \Vould it be too much for the college to.ohelp us out in this matter? It is the business of the committee to n1ake inquiry on the subject. -The laboratory is well patron- ized this term. Prof. Perkins finds an able assistant in Whitehorne, '82. Bayard's genial manners make him to be very much liked by those who work with him. It is amusing to hear the great number of questions which are put to him by the boys when loafing in the lab. The.faw- breakz'ng· names in which an answer is made, generally appalls the ques- tioner, and, after digesting the name of one sa1t or acid, he retires satis- fied. -A Freshman said that his ex- amination draft had so many ''French curves\ that he could not make it. P. S.- He hired it tnade. -Rev. Mr. Maxon, who occupied Prof. Alexander's chair during the latter's absence, \vas the recipient of a handsome present from the Sopho- more Class, on the evening of De- cen1 her 2oth. The present, a piece of Rogers' statuary, ''Going for the Doctor,\ was tendered by Mr. Cady, with a speech on behalf of the class. Mr. Maxon responded in a few well chosen remarks. -· Professor in German-\What case is that noun, Mr. ?\ Stu- dent- \Accusative.\ Prof.-\N o. ' Student- \Dative.\ Prof.-''N o.\ Student-\! mean gen-gen-geni- tive.\ Prof.-\W ell, you are a hard case. \ -Scene, recitation room on a cold morning. Prof.-\Gentlemen the roon1 is rather cold, but I ·will try to n1ake it warm enough for you.\ -Professor (in astronomy )-\In regard to the projection, you would have to study description for a cou- ple of months.\ Senior (feeling! y )- \Yes a couple o terms.'~ Where are those Junior legislators who were so enthusiastic in regard to forn1ing a House of Represent- atives ? Still, in the order of busi- ness in the Senate, the Chairman reads: \Messages from the House,\ and there is no response. -The Senior class are greatly en- joying their work in Butler, under the supervision of Dr. Potter, who n1akes a very entertaining and instructive teacher. -Prof. Price's little boy has been dangerously ill with membranous

' I . I I l !· ' ' I ' l . . I I I ' I I i 1 I ; I I . . . . ! t . I I I I I ! I : ~ i 1 ! ' l 1 1 : I ; ; t : ' : ; 1 ' . . ' \ ~ I I I 86 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. croup, but we are glad to state that he is doing finely no\v, and is en- tirely out of danger . -Now is the time (mercury at frezo) when the studf nt has. cold chills when he thinks of bathing, and the old saying, \cleanliness is next to godliness,'' is forgotten. -Agents for the A11zerz'can Cyclo- pedia have been at work among the students, hut we have not heard with what success. -J. Harry Shannon, the boy ora- tor, appeared before an ass em hl y of college students, in chapel, during the latter part of last term. It seem- ed to be the general opinion of his hearers that his oratory and elo- quence are greatly over estimated. In regard to his memory, he is rightly considered a prodigy. -Dr. Potter and Prof. Ashn1ore hear their recitations in the new build- ing. The rooms are large, well ven- tilated, and well lighted. 'The li- brary hall, when completed, will be an elegant room for the purpose. -We gladly welcome Prof. Alex- ander back to his accustomed place. The professor has been traveling in Scotland, England, France and Italy for a few months. We missed his genial countenance and engaging manner; but, no doubt, ·while his a b- sence was a loss to us, it was a gladly welcomed vacation to one who is so busily engaged. -The Philo1nathean Society held its regular tern1 election on Satur- day, } anuary I 3th. The following are the officers: President, Bel! in- ger, '83; Vice President, Dent, '83; Librarian, Allison, '84, Treasurer, Benedict, '84; Secretary, Duffy, '8 5; ;r urator, Blessing, '86. \-' -· There will probably be a class in Hebrew this term under the in- struction of Rev. Mr. Maxon. -A donation has been offered to buy some new apparatus for the gym- nasium. We hope our efficient in- structor in gymnastics will make a wise selection and supply the. very apparent needs. -We have not seen the \nine\ in the gymnasium yet. The prac- tice was greatly beneficial last year, and we hope soon to see the Captain and his ·men out in full, force. -At a rneeting of the Freshn1en class, on Thursday, January I Ith,two con1rnittee-s were appointed-one to arrange for a class supper, and an- other to choose a class cut for the Garnet. -At Class· meeting of '8 5, on vVed- nesday, January 10th, a con1mittee was appointed to arrange for a class supper. -The following officers were elect- ed in the AdPlphic, on Saturday,J an- uary 13th: President, Neagle, '84; Vice President, Judd, '84; Trea~urer, Adams, '83: Secretary, Mitchell, '85; Librarian, Cantine, '83; Curator, Allen, ,86. -Prof. Alexander has the Senate this term. He was surprised to see the large a1nottnt of work done last season. -The fair will not take place un- til after Lent, as that season begins earlier than usual this year. -An agreeable change fron1 the cold recitation rooms to the steam- heated ones of the new building. -Ray, '83, has had the tneasles, but is now all right.

. In- to . lll- a ac- wo to ct- ' ee n- ns THE CONCORDIENSIS. -. ·First young lady-\ Mr. A. must be a fine scholar; for he wears a five- beat watch key.\ Second young lady-''Fivc-beat watch key? What's that?\ First young lady-\Why you know, the five that beat get keys. Though I believe there arc generally six of them. Should think they'd call 'en1 six beats.'· Fact. ·-It is not that my ~1ark is low That makes the silent tear to flow; 'Tis not for this I n1:ourn my luck; I only weep because I'm stuck. Professor (holding up specimens)-· \Now which of these is which ;\ Prompt student-\Yes sir.\ Prof.-· \You don't understand the question. I asked which is which?\ Protnpt student-\Oh; beg par- don. The one in your left hand.\ -A locomotive is called she, be- cause it draws the mails. -Prof. Price has been serious! v \' ill, but, we are glad to say, is now re- covering. Prof. Staley al).d Mr. An- able have taken his classes. -Du Puy, '83, sprained his ankle, and ~was confined to his roon1 for several days. .:.;,;~;:../ -Jackson, '86, who has been out of college .on account of sickness, resumed his studies this week. Winter comes, and now the breezes Blow among the lifeless treeses ; Now the Fresh old Ne\vcomb mazes, Now the Soph. no longer hazes; But, oh, Junior, what engages All your thoughts, and so crazes You to look upon the Senior so ! Ah ! we guess the thoughts and faces, Which so leave their direful tr2 ces; • 'Tis because the Junior gazes; \Vatches it in all its phases. Yes, he hopes and yearns and wishes; Nay, he feels his very bliss is ·v;: l1 r;} \ ( 1 1\; ;1l1 {1(, ~~12. A; V. W. Van Vechten, of New York, has given to Union Col- lege a salutatory prize, to be made permanent, in honor of his father, w~o graduated in 1812:. • /'30. Henry James, the philospher and theologian, recently died at his home in Boston. Mr. James, after- graduation, entered Princeton The- ological Sen1inary. (Here however, becoming imbued with certain liber- al notions in regard to the Bible and it's teachings, turned his attention to the enunciation of his own views of theology and has given us many voL- umes of valuable infornJation.) He leaves two sons, H e'nry J an1es, Jr. the novelist and Prof. William James of Harvard College. ·/'33· Anson Binghan1 entered Am- herst College, in which he was a con- temporary of Henry Ward Beecher, although not in the same class with him. He was transferred to Union College, ·where he graduated In 1833 As a lawyer, Mr. Bingham was ac- tively engaged in the ... A.nti-Rent con- troversy and before the Court of 1\ppeals, for the tenants, made one of the ablest arguments ever deliver- ed on that branch of law. He de- voted the latter part of his life to con1posing law books in which he has given much valuable information concerning real e·state, landlords and tenants and kindred subjects. (An- son Bingham was an indefatigable and pains-taking student and a fin- i,shed lawyer.) - V '38. In a trip to New York, we recently met Father Walworth, who said he was a l)elta Phi of Union. graduated in r838.Jl The Father is an ardent advocate of temperance, and during his conversation dilated

88 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. upon the evils of intemperance and his plans for con1bating it in Albany, where he now resides.) V '7 3· Rev. J. D. Countermine was in stalled as pastor of the Sixth Presbyterian church of Albany.\Mr. Countermine was a faithful, hard- • working student. He preaches ·with- out notes and with a due sense of his responsibility fills the duty of his position.) \/ '8o. Frank P. S. Crane, of Mid- dletown N. Y .. , Jan. 2d, L883 was married to Louise, daughter of Henry Rosa, of Schenectady. '84. C. B. Ten1plet0n is still im- proving in health but we are sorry to hear that he will not rettu-n this year. /g 4· sota. Fisher is teaching in lVIinne- '85. We regret to announce the departure of Arthur S. Anable, who was always so ready to employ his time both in musical and athletic af- fairs for the best interest of \Old U . \ n1on. '85. We understand that J. i\. Y a.tes is to leave College and enter busin.ess. /'82. L. A. Coffeen is Professor of Natural Sciences in Ogdensburg A.cademy. / '82. F. D. VanWagenen is a real estate agent. V'79. Alonzo C. Dingman, who is. practicing law at Minden, Mont- gomery county was recently n1arried. ,\; Seth E. Lasher is a lawyer at Bethlehem Centre. -~fjollegencia -Colurnbia has· the glee club fever. -Cambridge has only 835 Fresh- men this year.-E.x . -'fhe passing mark at Harvard is 40.-Ex. -The salary of the law professors at Columbia is $7,500. -Edinburgh University has 2,237 stu ::l ~ n t 3 Cam bridge has dropped Greek from the list of required studies. One more step in human progress. -Columbia College has 1,494 stu- dents, the largest number in any An1erican college. L -Harvard has the largest college library in the United States.· It contains I8'5,ooo volumes. -Of the 1,058 students in the Universities of Switzerland, only I 13 study theology and r 58 law. The growing tendency to avoid these pro- fessions is noticeable in all the Uni- versities of Europe. -President Elliott says that the lowest sum for which a student can spend a year at I-Iarvard is $650, and if he wants to live with a fair degree of comfort, he ought to have $1,300. -Trinity College is to have a new president, and the prospects are that it w-ill assun1e a more prominent po- sition among New Englan .l Colleges. -Cor1zell Sun. -Princeton has re~eived upward of $2, 50o,ooo since Dr. McCosh took char§ $8o,c mort: .. four. M:: conn libra~ vohn elect Cong . miSC fourt in de for f goes rr1en the~ con~ Ph. J Pres tory whe: well Isaa publ thre alon {' .'J.

88 'fHE CONCORDIENSIS. upon the evils of intemperance and his plans for cnn1bating it in Albany, where he now resides.) V '73. Rev. ]. D. Countermine was installed as pastor of the Sixth Presbyterian church of Albany.\Mr. Counterrnine was a faithful,. hard- ~working student. He preaches ·with- out notes and with a due sense ofhis responsibility fills the duty of his position. J /'so. Frank P. S. Crane, of Mid- dletown N. Y-:·, Jan. 2d, L883 was married to Louise, daughter of Henry Rosa, of Schenectady. '84. C. B. Ten1plet0n is still im- proving in health but we are sorry to hear that he will not return this year. /s4. Fisher is teaching in 1\tiinne- sota. '85. We regret to announce the departure of Arthur S. Anable, who was always so ready to employ his time both in musical and athletic af- fairs for the best interest of \Old Union.\ '85. We understand that J. A. Y a.tes is to leave College and enter business. /''82. L. A. Coffeen is Professor of Natural Sciences In Ogdensburg A.cademy. /'82. F. D. Vah Wagenen is a real estate agent. V'79. Alonzo C. Dingman, who is practicing law at Minden, M~nt­ gomery county was recently married. \/;78. Seth E. L-asher is a lawyer at B'ethlehem Centre. -Columbia has· the glee club fever. -Cambridge has only 835 l'~resh­ men this year.-Ex. -· 'The passing mark at Harvard is 40.-Ex. -· The salary of the law professors at Columbia is $7,500. -Edinburgh University has 2,237 stu:l~nt3 Cam bridge has dropped Greek from the list of required studies. One more step in human progress. -Columbia College has I ,494 stu- dents, the largest number in any An1erican coHege. '- -Harvard has the largest college library in the United States.· It contains I 8~5, ooo volumes. -Of the 1,058 students in the Universities of Switzerland, only I 13 study theology and I 58 law. The gro·wing tendency to avoid these pro- fessions is noticeable in all the U ni- versities of Europe. -President Elliott says that the lowest sum for which a student can spend a year at Flarvard is $650, and if he wants to live with a fair degree of comfort, he ought to have $1,300. -Trinity College is to have a new president, and the prospects are that it will assun1e a Inore prominent po- sition among New Engla.n .l Colleges. -Cor1zell Sun. -Princeton has re~eived upward of $2, soo,ooo since Dr. McCosh took char $80, m-or· \Jou; M cour I ibn volu elec Con . llilSI In rr Uni four ind( for· goe: rr1er the con Ph. Pre tOr) wht wei Is a< pul: thn alot (' /J

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 8g charge·. Dr. 1\tlusgrave recently gave $8o,ooo, it being his Al111a Mater. -Wisconsin University girls wear mort8.r boards. What next?-· -Col. .. }ournal. Make waste-baskets of them, of course. -Amherst will soon have a new library building suitable for 230,000 volun1es. -· Ann Arbor has seven graduates elected to the next United .States Congress. --The Cornell Faculty demand $400 from the students to repair the mischief done on Hall owe' en. -An Atnerican took the first prize in n1athen1atics, not long since, at the University of .. Heidelberg, Germany. -It is reported that no less than fourteen young tnen and won1en are indebted to Alexander H. Stephens for their education. To each of:these goes a check every month. -Eighty per cent. of the Fresh- rrlen now at I-Iarvard are studying in the scientific course. -The University of Michigan has con~rred its highest honor, that of Ph. D., upon Miss Alice E. Freeman, President of Wesley College. .-An enthusiastic student of his- tory traces base ball back to the time when Rebecca went down to the well vvith a pitcher and caught Isaac. -· The Harvard Echo has stopped publication after an existence of three years. This leaves the field alone to its successful rival, T!ze !-fer- (· .'J. -·They say when a pretty Iri,h girl is stolen away it is supposed that some boycotter.-.Ex-. -. Enterprising Sunday School Teacher :-\Frank have you been baptised?\ Frank :-\Y es'm, last winter, but they said it didn't take.\ -Tec!z. --Forewarned is forearmed. \Why did'nt you tell me you two girls \vere going. A fellow can't drive a span of skittish horses with his teeth.- Yale Record. -If you want a man to linger in your room ''let him talk about him- self?\ if you want him to \dust\ just ''talk about yourself. \-Dickz'nsoniatz. -A Senior (reciting psychology outside) \The unification of the ap- parent dualism of things can be prognosticated by the sentient sus- ceptibilities appertaining to the con- convergent lines of evident dam- foolishness.\ -An Irishman was indulging in the very intellectual occupation of sucking raw eggs and reading a new·s paper. By some mischance he con- trived to bolt a live chicken. The poor bird chirruped as it went down his throat, and he very coolly said, \By the powers, my young friend, you spoke to late.\ -One of the respected members· of the faculty is reported to have an- swered that time-worn conundrun1: \What is the n1aking system?\ by say- ing: \Only the Lord and one professor understood it ; the Lord won't tell 'l\ , 1·', \'--.. !(', ~ ·.--..·· ,., 1 ~ f··· ,~ ·r\- 't+ ''--c.~ .. .. .o. .. .. • -· J • . J , • . I .. ... • J • ~ - )

THE C:ONCORDIENS'IS. 8g charge. Dr. lVIusgrave recently gave $8o,ooo, it being his Al111a Mater. -Wisconsin University giris wear m-ort~r boards. What next ?-Col. \Journal. Make waste-baskets of them, of course; -Amherst will soon have a new library building suitable for 230,000 volun1es. -Ann Arbor has seven graduates elected to the ·next United .States Congress. --··The Cornell Faculty demand $400 from the students to repair the mischief done on Hallowe'en. -An Atnerican took the first prize in n1athen1atics, not long since, at the University of..Heide I berg, Germany. -It is reported that no less than fourteen young men and women are indebted to Alexander H. Stephens for their education. To each of these goes a check every month. -Eighty per cent~ of the Fresh- rnen now at I-Iarvard are studying in the scientific course. -The University of Michigan has confurred its highest honor, that of Ph. D., upon Miss Alice E. Freeman, President of Wesley College. .. .-An enthusiastic student of his- tory traces base ball back to the tin1e when Rebecca vvent down to the well 'vith a pitcher and caught Isaac. -The Harvard Echo h~s stopped_ publication after an existence of three years. This leaves the field alone to its successful rival, Tlze Her- ('/,/. -They say when a pretty Iri,h girl is stolen away it is supposed that some boycotter.-· Ex. -Enterprising Sunday School Teacher :-\Frank have you been baptised ?\ Frank :-\Yes' m, last winter, but they said it didn't take.\ -Tech. - -Forewarned is forearmed. ''Why did'nt you tell me you two girls \vere going. A fellow can't drive a span of skittish horses with his teeth.- Yale Record. -If you want a man to linger in your room ''let him talk about him- self?\ if you want him to \dust\ just \talk about yourself. \-Dickinsonian. -A Senior (reciting psychology outside) \The unification of the ap- parent dualism of things can be prognosticated by the sentient sus- ceptibilities appertaining to the con- convergent lines of evident dam- foolishness.\ -An I rishn1an was indulging in the very intellectual occupation of sucking raw eggs and reading a news paper. By some mischanc~ he con- trived to bolt a live chicken. The poor bird chirruped as it went down his throat, and he very coolly said, \By the powers, 1n y young friend, you spoke to late.\ -One of the respected men1 hers · of the faculty is reported to have an- swered that time-worn conundrun1: \What is the tnaking system?\ by say- ing: \Only the Lord and one professor understood it; the Lord won't tell ., '1 1··\'... .) . )r,.~ .,) .. L,l., f>··)···)'- 't+ ,., __ r;~~ .. .. \' .. ... • -- • _J • • • ,j • ., 1 .. ... • .J • . ~ _)

90 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS. -A bevy of children were telling their father what they got at school. The eldest: \Reading spelling and definition.\. \And what do you get my little one?\ said the father to a rosy cheeked little fellow, who was at that tilne slyly driving a tenpen- ny nail into the door panel. \;\:fe? Oh, I gets readin' spellin' and spank- . ., '' Ins. -It was evening. Three of them were killing a cat. One of them held a lantern, another held the cat, and a third jam1ned a pistol into the eat's ear and fired, shooting the man in the hand who held the cat, and the one with the lantern was wound- ed in the arm. The cat left when it saw how tnatters stood, and th.at ill- feeling was being engendered. -\I I1ever saw a real prize fite, but I saw a fut-bal1 game. First, a man kiks the ball. Then the boys · each each other roun·d the nex and roll in the mud. Then one man yells helld and they git up in a line and the men on the end they danse. Then the boys on the fens they laf. \Vhen a man runs with a ball they each him and set on his neck. Then he goes homf' and another n1an takes his place. 1\'hen one man kiks the ball and the other side yells fowl. Then they sware. My brother Bill before the game said he was layin' for one of the.m damfreshn1en. When he came dovvn to the feeld in his sute the boys on the fens they yelled, 'it came up from New York on the breeze.' When he came home with his leg broke I asked him if he fixed the Freshtnan, and my sister's young man laffed and said not this eve, and Bill he kust.\ -Junior, on the train to young mother with noisy baby-\I beg pardon, but can T be of assistance to ..,, your Young n1other-- ·'No, thank you.\ ( lVIore squalling.) Junior-· ''You had better let me try, I think I can quiet it.\ Young mothor, innocently-''N o, I guess not, thank you; the poor little darling is hungry, that's all.\~- Cor- tzell S11 Jl. ·------------- -- --··------------ - -The usual number of exchanges decorate our table. Some in form and general appearance rival our best periodicals; others are printed in the cheapest manner, evidently because it is the fashion. Some are written with care, anJ are prepared fo·~· a critical examination. Others are gotten up on the plan of dime liter- ature, with flashy headings to catch the unwary Freshman, and have lit- tle else to clain1 attention. What is n1ost needed to improve the charac- ter of college publications is more tin1e and closer thought There is no reason for believing that un-der- graduates are inferior to their pr€de- cessors. At all events, on then1 must fall the editorial work of twenty years hence. What; then, \viii be the state of affairs if college work be not faithfully done? Journalism, as an auxiliary of the college curriculun1, is certainly an es- tablished institution. The benefit, nay, the necessity of this adjunct in filling up the rounded whole of a college is becoming more apparent each year ; but even the usual read- er sti hu COl Iisl C01 th< plE . iliA ffi( re< bo ult: an tu1 co ea~ fol on on be bu wr th< pe: Tr do . ' 1n~ far pn pa: tio a~ de pe: of to Nc

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 91 er n1nst realize that the enterprise is still in its infancy. Of the three hundred and fifty colleg~s in this country, not n1ore than a dozen pub- lish papers of the first rank. In some colleges j'ourna1istn is en- · couraged and supported by the au- thorities ; in others the editors are pleading to have their labors recog- nized. It is no easy task to present each month a readable paper. The labor required fron1 each tnember of the board is much greater than the reg- ular literary work of the curriculum, and should be accepted as a substi· tute. We are glad to learn that some colleges have made this advance, and earnestly pray that the rest may soon follow. The ·recon1pense of \expressing one's opinions in readable print,'' as one of our cotemporaries has it, may be an ind u cern en t to youngsters to burn the n1idnight oil, but to those whose ain1 is improvement rather than parade the recon1pense of ap- pearing in print is purely imaginary. The regular college work, when well done, leaves very little titne for read- ing and exercise. Moreover, it is far better, tnenta11y and morally, to prepare original work for the college paper than to \crib\ essays and ora- tions as regular work. -The Undergraduate has received a good amount of care at home, and demands a careful perusal. The pa: per is not large, but has several pages of well written editorials of interest to college men. The \Reviews and Notices\ are very good in tb eir way, but it would seem more appropriate to mark the department \ads.\ The Exchange Department is ably and fearlessly vvritten. Indeed, we are surprised that Middlebury has dared to throw down the gaunt- let to the Athencett11l, that daisy, that pink of recently att~ined perfection. Evidently the shaft reached a vul- nerable spot in the attack on light literature. Those articles n1ay be of local interest; but what other merit have they? Let some fertile brain, if it enjoys such n1atter, write a nov- elette in the same series on \The Three Fleas; · or, What Excites Y ?'' ou. The Haverford£an, has missed the Sunbea1n from its exchanges, and im- mediate! y the joys of life, alas, are too few for happiness. Hear the moan: \Why could we not have one little ray of light sent forth by the Ontario ladies?'-' Verily, the servants of Uncle Sam and the_ Queen wor not what misery they wrought in miscarrying the cheerful Sunbeant. Had we known sooner of the distress of our brother, he should have had part of our ''ray,, but only a part. -··We are glad to hear from our friends on the Pacific slope. There seems no prospect of any lull to the exciten1ent at. Berkeley. The Occi- dent devotes three pages to denounc- ing secret societies. From the en- ergy displayed, one would judge there is son1e ground 'for the ex- tren1e language used. Evidently so- cieties are not popular at Berkeley.

92 THE CONCORDIENSIS. We would like to hear from the oth- er side. --If illustrating is to become the style for college papers, may we not have ·the figures made tnore like some known species. Those mongrels, too erect for apes, and too limp, too im- becile, for the gt'nus ho1no, should be labeled, tliat strangers may compre- hend their significance. Yes, change those figures, even at the expense of sending the artists abroad for copies. -The Wlzeebtza1z, a tastefully ar- ranged periodical devoted to cycles, contains several interesting stories, the moral of which seen1s to be that bicycles can scatter more romance along life's pathway than any similar engine; that bicycles are infallible remedies for poor health when all else fails. Doubtless the time. will come when dorninies will keep bi- cycles instead of venerable \one- horse chaises;\ when argumentative deacons will roll along, with arms akin1bo and hair strean1ing wildly in the wind, to the astonishment of all. The only objection De3:C<n1 Po- gram makes to such vehicles is, that it is cheaper to keep a coach and four. Cannot the TVheebna1z suggest to his neighbor that those machines should be put out at half the present .price? .~__,__. ----·· -· - --- EDITORii\L. IT is to be regretteJ that every- thing pertaining tc nn1sic has died out. Our chapel choir is a thing of the past, while the glee club has faded into· romance. Spring now con1es, but Union'~ boys no longer gather on the terrace to sing their college glees. We are aware that the iron-clad course which we pur:.. sue is partly :to blame for this, but it seems as though some time might be spared for these things which form the poetry of a rnan\s college career. No one looks ba~k on any rnoments with greater pleasure than on those during which he and some churns, forgetting the worry of college life, sang the old songs which thousands had sung before hin1. Everything tends to the practical in our life, but · the tnin utes given to such pleasant recreation n1.ore than repay one. We to-day have in college 1nany men who play different instruments, and play them well. We have enough to forrn I an orchestra ot tnore than average '--' quality. We have enough singers to fortn an excellent glee club. With these materials are we to throw away all interest ih n1usica.l affairs? Scl Coli~ Und1 D 9:

r'\\ I Ql~ I. I I I I , I (./) ;-; [f) z ~~ ~I Cl ~ 0 u z 0 u ' ~~ :;r::l c..;,.. I '- ' I WE SOLICIT YOU TO STOP A.T Tf!E GEAND UNION HOTEL, NEW ?O~K CITY, (Opposite the Grand Central Depot). ' l:famiHe~, travelei'~ ancl tourists arri'i 1g or leaving the City of Ne·,v York to visit Niagara, Saratoga, \Vhite 1 I Mountains, Long Branch, or other summer resort~, will lmcl it convenient to ~top at the GRA:'\D UNIO:.J HOTEL. First-class itl all appointment!!!, elevator and all modern iinpnwements ; Europeg.n plan, 450 elegantly furnished :romns, reduced t0 on~ dollar aqd llp·.yq.rd>l per cl<t-y, (a:.&o <;legantly fqrni!iihed fiiuits fo& {amHie!9) iitted up at a copt of one million dollars. ' i Families,_ traveler~ ~II-? t:•urists can live! llettef for le.'s n~~mey at the GR~\\\D UNro:-r than at. any other first-class Hotel 111 the City. Its dmmg rooms are elegan.Lly carpeted ; Its Restaurant, Cafe, Lunch and Wme rooms are sup- plied with the best at nwcLrate price0. An elegant Restaurant 7 5 feel square, Just finished, where families can dine quietly a~ at home, and at a much less expense. A numhei; of l'Ooms elegantly fitted up for Dinner, Lunch and Sup~ per parties. 1 Cuests' ~aggage to and frcm1 G_r~ncl Cen!r.al DTepot fr:e, tl;us saving C!J)Tiage hire and (;Xpense of baggq.ge transfer, 1 \V, D. tJAI\tZJ~u;-.;~ ~lanfl~gt:r. Iry th~ Gl{AND U:\10~. \ A - C\' C/:::::2 .... • ~ (]C) ~- - ~ 0 .._.-. .... ~L) .<i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~· !=----.. \ p:::; 0 w ~ L o ,--...---.., . ,, 0 cOO ~ 0 ~ '\' ~ ~ u ~ ClJ~ ~0~~ ,. . ~ c/) \ V) ~@;r_;~ UJ .. ~~<~ ~-~~ ,..!:1 til ~ ~ .e Q -:r ' ~ ~ ..._ H ~ f-1---< ... 0\:2 !::J J:l r-.,..-, ~ ~ ClJ ~ ~ ~ a; ~ [---< t3 c.::;, J.-. f-. ,:;; ~f'j v:)~ Vj ~ S:r:; (J) ~ ~ ---- -~-- -··- .. -- ,.... ,J:::! ::>--. u~ .._:1 .._ H ~~ ,.-1· ~ Q) • • 'u ... . ~ o · q ~ ~ ·~ \\\ . ~ ~ ~I • ¥ z ~ l-3.-.2~ . ro \\ fl:i ~ ~ ~ rl\l ~ . ' 'I .E-o ~ ....-tl ~ VIi I 1-,o-,1 l:il 0 lfl ;r.\' ~ < ~ 0 t:rJ _, t -~ ~ ~ I ., ....--< S ...... ·- u -==oi ~ ..... 0:: bl) ...c b ~ ' .:3 •E-- l=:f 'JJ ifJ ~ 0 I ~ QJ 0 ~I~ o~ ~ ~~ ~ a_) ...J ~..d ~ :c ~~ \d ~ ~ ;>:;.. ~ -S! «:.:» CJ::a s::::: .:a. ..s:: c:a £'.a ~ ..J:::::: U·~ ~ t:....: U l:: c Y'/\\1 0 cd~ ~~I~ cd v ~ ·,< £t-l v ·~ I~ v ~ ~:S= ~ Jfl ._0 ~ I > ~ • rl ~ ,....,...-.! 0 ~uu ~ ;.> v Ef.ll ~._.~ ~~co <:::::l h-1 '0 r - ro ....... l'3 .\' .... ~ 1-1-j ...::: ~ a::: \ Cl> ~ <:n N :.<: (}) c::. 0 ~o r:: ~ ~ ~ ~ i? -a <D :z A ~ s ~ ~ ,..--4 ~ 0 .!4 ~ ~ ~ z ~ c:!: Q) ~ ~ v ~ \U · ...q !;::~~~ ~ (})~ U ..:-rc::: ~ 0 ~ ....-< C I c:r.ll VJ 8~ . l

94 THE CONCORDIENSIS, GEORGE E. VINCENT~ GENT' 3 FURNISHING GOODS And Manufacturer of THE ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, .Jfyers Block, Schenectady, N. r. -- ---------- --- ----·- CHAS. N. YArfES, FURNITURE -AND- ; Ul?HOLSTERING W.AREHOUSI, Special Atte1ltion g/ven to lhzdertald1'l§. 62 Stale Streel, Schenectady, _}V. 1\'. [ B. LODGE, Genfs Fashionable Custon1 Clothing, ALSA~Y AGtN,CY FC& PoPE M 'F:G Co., COI.JUNlBIA EIGYGLE$, ALSO DEALER IN -<~porting ·<ij~odc. OF ALL KINDS,. WcxG.xPADDOgf{, 6o State Street, Alhany, N. V. i\ FINE LOT OF BOOTS SHOES & RUBBERS, Ahvays in Stock at Boys 9 Youth'sandChildren 1 sClothing-.· J. G. SCHlTMACHERJS 54 N. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. BADM'S CIGAR STORE -AND- NE-w-S-ROO:tvr: Cigars artd Tobacco Of the Chaicest Kinds const:antly on hand. Cigarrett:es a specialty. All the Leading Periodicals. SubscJ;ip~ions re~ spectfully solicited. R. K. QU.A. YLE, ALBANY, N.Y., JVcdding a JU! College fnvita!z'on.s, Oards, Monograms~ Bto. Original Designs when desired. FAIRFIELD & ELMENDORF, Props.~ JI & 33 Maidert La1-ze, _4./barzy, N. V. WILSON DAVIS, - MerchantTailor. I I 5 State St., Schenectady,, N. V. N<t. 267 STATE STREET, (Near Crescent Park) Especial Care given to Custon1 \t\T ork. Call and see for vou rself.. Dr. B. F. Carlllierliael, D€I1<9IS<9, Sz Ferry Street, Schenectady, N. l::.,... All operations upon the teeth per- fon11ed with neatness and dispatch. All classes of \vork perfon11ed at about one-half the usual prices. Teeth filled with Cold, $Loo ancl upward. Fillings other than Gold, 50 cents. Teeth Extracted with Gas, soc; without Gas, 25c. All \Vork vv·arranted. Patronized by :Faculty aa.d Students. R .. O'NEIL, 7I ~JI1Ig!_U JI1}IILO ~ 1-ro. 124 State Street, SCI-lftNEC7ADJ~ fil. r. Be ]~ A F' III UN A IVa. r: Carpt IJ7 ·rh Style~ Mt

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 95 J. H. BARH YTE, DEALER IN BOOKS AND S1JtTIONE~Y JYaper Ha1zgi1tgs and Dccoratio1zs. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT .BOOK~·, ~Roon:is papered a.s Short Notice. Ready ll£ade a1td Afade to Order, A lARGE LINE OF UNDERW- AR .Altl the Latest Style of , I I I State St-reet, Sche1tectady, N. Y. ED. L. DAVIS' I , SCARFS, TIES, C,OLLi\RS~ &c. UNION STREErf PHARMACY., 1 SOHENECT ADY, N I y I j A large assort11tcut of Canes aJZd i IValkz'ng Sticks. THOS. H. REEVES & CO. Dealer in. Staple and Fancy DR'\''? GOODS, : Carpetings, ~· 1 Cloths, Etc. Also a Full Line uf :! Cloths at1d Cassimeres. j IJ7 State Street, Schenectady, JV. Y. i j .FALL HATS I AND \2\!inter CAPS. l The Largest and Best Assortment of Nobby ,J Styles to be found in the city. SAVE A DOLLAR. BEYER tl1e HATTER, I 49 State Street, Schenectady, N. :V. Goods received for T'roy Laundry. IJJ .State Street, Schenectady, N~ Y. CONR1\D GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, AND DEALERfN - ' Foreign and Do1nestic Woole1z Goods, 85 Centre Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Perfect Fit an<i Good Work Guaranteed. ~----- -- --------- - ---------------- 20 PER CENT Sj\ VED BY (;OING TO LE'WIS FELDMANN To have your Clothing Cut and :\1ade FOR FALL AND WINTER. S7 State St., Cor. R.:R. Up Stairs. G 0 'I' 0 gowern, the lhotograpl1er, FOR BEST PHOTOGRAPHS~ ____ F_R_Eji(:J-i--& -JO-HNSO-N,- J 225 State Street, Schenectady, 1\t~ V. • . l --------------- ---- ------- -.---- ME~CHANT TAILO~SJ : N0w Goal & Wood Yard .. No. 35 Maiden Lane, : LEIFELS & McDONALD _ ~-LB_ A_!_'J __ !:• ___ l:J __ :_ y · ___ i 95 Fonda Str:et, - near U~ion. w. T. HANSON & co.. : Coal Del1vered Screened Druggists and Apothecaries, ! rnoM UNDER 'covEn, Toilet Articles and Druggists' Sundrieg, ! ~7-~ATxLOWE$TxMARKETxPRJgE$.~·~:- FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. f rropri~ors of HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SAL VS, 8 T U D E N T 8 . I95 State St.' . Schenectady, N. Y. Euy your Coal at the Nearest Flace ! '

g6 THE CONCCRDIENSlS, F~ DEF GRA y7 Successor to J. C. Du E-LL-1' OpteraJive and Mecl1anical DENTIST!! Office ar11d Re!:>idt:nce, ROEE-l(T 'I. MOIR; (Successor to John Gilmollli), DEALER IN BOOKS. ~rATIONmt.Y AND FArE& HANGING~o ·NOS,. 201 STATE & 1:16 CENTRE ST., SCHENEC-TApY, N. Y, Agency fo.T Anchor, Inman and Hambmgh-American Trans- Atllantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. i I No. 47 State St. 1 ScheJz.ectady 1 Nr Y .. 1 '' ----~----~- (.JO TO FOR BARGAINS IN ~ ~HOE& IN LATE~T ~TYL& T'O MEASURE. FIT GU ARANTEE'D! -T~~ -T\ -T\ =wrJ . =w:Dj'\ ' = ~ __ =.J = ~-·- y ~-- /'~ .:;/ f. Boots, Shoes & Rubbers, \ Tweddle Hall $hoe ~tore, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY., N. Yr ... '\ .... -.----· -·------- ------ 0. v,.... ('\' \J I \ IOBA-CCO AND ('IGARE.TTES. Only Pure Tobacco and Pure Paper I SWEET CA.! ORAL I CoRI<: MouTI-fPIECE,-Unsurpassed for cie:mfiness, econ- omy and convenience, The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and pleasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke. Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR-. ETTES, absolutely fmr·e. The Caporal, Caporal ;~ and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended, STRAIGHT-OUT CIGARETTES. This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST CIG- ARETTE as to Quality, Flavor, and Wol'kmanship, ever OF- FERED FOR SALE. Ask for KINNEY BROS.* STRAIGHT CUTJ KINNEY ToBAccco Cc, NEW YoRK, Manufacturers of the fo!Iowing weli-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL ;~, SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES% MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETc., ETc. ii@\'Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughout the world. \V. & L. E. GTJRLEY, Manufacturers of CIVIL ENGlNESR' & ~U& VEYO~S' INSTRUMENTS, · TROY, N. Y Dealers in Drawing Instntments of every description, C\ -.t \'\I 1 n '\' 1 1 T'\ .. , ...... j ........ T)\\'\ ... - p•·. f..r~,. ... · .. ~C'Cr,' ~·1,..1 C: \l\YC ·nr~ . . . ~ - • .. 1.,. • ALBANY, N~ Y~ DENTIST, 23 5 ~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A. BROWN & SON, UPHOLSTERERS AND Furniture Manufactt1rers, ' 154 State Street, Schenectady, N. }\\:. L. T. CLUTE, Fi-\SHIONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, &c. in the city· IOI State St., SclteJzectady, N.Y. G. PALMA TIER, CUSTOM BOOT}l{]J SHOE M}KER. - Repairing Promptly Done. (':: (r::'lr!' Strcrt, .\(/:tl:'{·c:'i:·dJ', lV. V. 1 V'C E LitE Ath :Loc Exc 'Ext: Coil l 0 NU ·~ a.t l Ed Li1 Lo Pe· Co Ex Ex

g6 THE CONCORDIENSlS, F~ DEF GRA y7 ROBE,l{T 'T. MOIR,. Succes:;o.r to J. C. DuELL,. (Successor to John Gilmom),. k [ I Operative and Mechanical DENTIST! Office and Re::,idtnce,. DEALER lN DCOKSJ arAfiGNE&t AI PAl'El HANGING~, NOS .. 201 STATE & t1.6 CENTRE ST., S·CHENEC·TA:QY, N. Y, Agency fo:r Anchor,. Inm~ atrl Hamburgh-American Trarrs- Attlantic .St€amship Lines~ &bAl'tFORD BLOCK. Nu .. 47 State St. 1 Schenectady,. N~ Y~ ·~ --~----....,.------ ----------------. --------- C.JO TO FOR BARGAINS IN Boots, Shoes & Rubbers, BARNEY BLOCK, SCHENECTADY-r N. Y. ···-----·----------------- CoRK MounfPIECE,-Unsurpassed for deanfiness, econ- omy and convenience, The soft feeling of the cork between the teeth makes this the most desirable and preasant mouth- piece, besides absorbing the nicotine and rendering a cooling sensation to the smoke. _ ' Same tobacco as the renowned SwEER CAPORAL CIGAR-. ETTES, absolutely fno...-e. '!11e. Caporal, Caporal ;~ and Veteran Mouthpiece Cigarettes are highly recommended. STRAIGHT-CUT CIGABETTES I This reliable brand is made from extra fine, selected, prime, mild, Golden Virginia Leaf, and is the FINEST CIG- ARETTE as to Quality, Flavor, and WaTkmanship, ever OF- FERED FOR SALE. Ask for KINNEY BROS.' STRAIGHT CUTJ KINNEY ToBAccco CC', NEW YORK, Manufacturers of the following well-known brands; CAPORAL, CAPORAL 7~. SWEET CAPORAL, ST. JAMES, ST. JAMES Yz MATINEE, ENTRE NOUS, SPORTS, AMBASSADOR, UNION CLUB, VETERAN, ETC., ETc. JlW=\Buy no other. Sold by all dealers throughout the world. \V. & L. E. GTJRLEY, Manufacturers of CIViL ENG·IN~~R' & ~U&VEYO~S' INSTRUMENTS, · TROY, N. Y Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, c-•., ·~ -.., 1 n ~'1 n .. ,~,.; .. ~ n.-. , ... Er.~~~ccr·' a·~rl C::·ryc··ors r • ' • f - ~ - • ' ........ ~.HOE~ IN .LlTEiT gTYLR 'TO MEASURE. FIT GUARANTEED! -T~ ::yp~ -T\ ~·~ =wr_J . :::w:6j'\ ' = ~/ ~-=.! = ~--. ~ ~-- ~~ ~ Tweddle Hall $boB ~tore, ALBANY,. N. Y. D.ENTIST, 2 3 5 ~ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A. BROWN & SON, U:PHOLSTKRERS AND l;t1rniture Manufacturers, I54 State Street, Schenectady, N. 1~ L. T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER, Agent for Dunlap & Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Eags, &c. in the city· IOI State St., Scfte1zectady, N.Y. G. PALMA TIER, CUSTOM BOOT}NJJ SHOE ~KER. Itepairing Promptly Done I (:: (c/dr!' Street, .C:(ltr.'l:'cc,JcdJ'~ l\7. :V. r I Lit~ At f. 1.oc ... Per Exc ·Ext Col: 0 NU A at] Ec Li Lc Pe Cc E)i E).

