The Corlcordien_sis. VoL VII. UNION UNIVERSITY, FRIDAY, FEB. 22, I 884. No.5· TH·E CONCORDIENSIS, PUBLISHJ:i;D MONTHLY, BY THE STUDE~TS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. and ablest mernbers of that body. The faculty was none too strong with Prof. Webster. It is now in sorne positions lan1entably weak. BOARD oF EDITORS: T: HERE should be son1.e changes n1ade in th.e clas- JOHN F. DELANEY, EmToR-IN~CHIEF. sical course. At present it consists of Greek, UNroN CoLLEGE: AssociATE EDIToRs. Latin a11:d 1nathen1atics. There is a mete pretense of R. R. BENEDicT, '8 4 . J. T. MoREY, '8s. work in essays, elocution, Eterature and history. Be- ·PuTNAM CAoY, '85. J. ]. McSoRLY, '85. T. c. LAwLER, '86. E. E. VEEDER, '86. sides we believe in tnaking French and Gern1an obli- LAw ScHooL: B. c. SLoAN. F. E. SMITH. gatory on classica1s. If necessary to institute these MEmcAL CoLLEGE: c. F. TIMMERMAN, '84. J. A. CuTTER, 'B6. changes, let some of the ·mathe1natics be dropped from S. E. ARMSTRONG, '85. ScHooL oF PHARMAcY: I. P. EsTcouRT. the classical course; let there. be 1nade a separate and A. McFARLANE, Bus-iness Ma.,zager. shorter course in physics, and the tin1e thus gained All communications should be addressed to P. 0. Box g6o. Articles can be put on French and Gennan, essays, etc. It is requested from the Alumni. ----- ·--- -- -- -· -- - true that the main use of a college course, classical or TERMs.--One Dollar and a-half per year, in advance. Remit to the order scientific, is discipline; but as f6lr as possible discipline of Business Manager. ------- ____ --- and utility should be combined, and we are persuaded Entered at the Schenectady, N. Y., Post-Office as second-class matter. that the ti1ne spent by classicals on so n1uch n1athe- ______ - --- ---- - -·-- ---- -·---- --·- n1atics n1ight be better etnployed. The classical T HE subjects for essays are again to be seen on the· ; course should not be neglected. It would not be bulletin. They are as follows: Seniors-Bene- well, we take it, that Union should beco1ne a scl1ool of fits and Evils of Monopolies ; Juniors-Benefits of a mathematics and engineering. This is the dangerous College to its Neighborhood; Sophomores-Qualities, tendency. Mental an€1 Moral, of the Model Editor. Would it not be a good thing to have something different for a subject just for the sake of variety. We have had Advantages and Disadvantages, :Benefits and Evils for subjects almost fro1n time imme1norial, and they are just now becoming rather stale. Give us a change once in a while, for \variety is the spice of life.\ THE Rev. Dr. Van Slyke, of Kingston, N. Y ., preached a very eloquent sermon to the students on Prayer Day. The sen11on showed careful prepara- tion and was suited to the n1ind of the student; un- fortunately, however, there were but few present to drink in its benefits. We ean safely say that not n1ore tha1-i one-third of the students were present in the W E feel it our duty as the representatives of col- ! chapel. ~t is a l~rnentable fact that aft~r all the work lege opinion, as interested in the welfare of of prepanng a suitable sern1on and a JOUrney of one the students and of the institution to call the attention hundred 1niles no larger audience than twenty-five or of the trustees to the neglect from which the whole thirty students can be assembled. Dr. Van Slyke college, but more especially the senior class, suffers could not but go away very unfavorably impressed from the want of experienced and competent instruc- with the n1oral condition of the college. If we have tors. We are aware that peculiar conditions .existed no regard for sermons we ought at least to show our at the beginning of the present collegiate year which respect for the n1an by giving hitn a fair audience and made necessary a hasty choice to ,fill a vacancy in the save the college authorities fro1n the e1nbarassn1ent of faculty caused by the removal of one of the strongest bringing a man here to preach to empty seats. I: . ' '· ' ~ t ; ,; ' ',' ~ ~ > ,, \ ·' ' :. ''i \ ,: I d l: I '. '' !I' ' .: ! 'I ,11 . .' I, ! I: ! • ),, .• l •( ;: I \ 1/ ;q :II :; l I' ,, I '! ,I I ,, I'! ==~-·-- iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii:ii:i======~::::-:\\-'\ ....... -·-·--~·~··~- .. --.,.--~-·-~···-·-·-- .. ---·-~-- .. ---~--···-----~----·~-].;: '

74 THE CONCORDIENSIS. TO visit the \gym'' one would suppose that such an organization as the U. C. Athletic Associa- tion never had an existence. Everything there wears a look of neglect. Many of the articles that it forn1er- ly contained have been abstracted and no one seems to take any inter~st in the preservation of. the few that ren1ain. Some tin1e ago the association gave pro1nise of remedying all this, and of infusing new life into the athletic department; but their n1any projects to this end have not been put into practice, and they seen1 to be sharers in the apathy that has now becon1e nearly generaL In the matter of physical as well as 1nental training, system is required. Thus far none has been pursued in the athletic departtnent this winter. Un- . provided with a trainer or instructor, except when on a few occasions '' Vandy\ kindly offered his assistance, each n1an has pursued his ain1less and desultory prac- tice in his own way. Under such circumstances it would be n1anifestly unjust to our 1nen to pit them against those who have been properly and intelligently trained, and it would certainly be rnore gratifying not to participate in. any inter-collegiate athletic contests than n1eet with a shan1eful defeat. It is evident that something must be done in this matter, and that in1- mediately, both as regards the base ball tean1 as well as other matters, and there is no reason why, with well directed effort, Union .may not this year equal or even surpass her record in the past. J F Charles Francis Adan1s' attack on the study of Latin and Greek in our colleges has produced ·no other good it certainly has directed public attention to 1night not do others good. Indeed the experience of most scholars has been different. Yet this is not what we started out to say. We wo1ald but i~tnpress upon you that Mr. Adams was more in the right than in the wrong. In the wrong, to belittle the i1nportance of the study of Greek and Latin,. in. the right, in proclaiming the importance of the study of the modern languages. Our colleges, if not paying too 1nuch attention to Greek and Latin, have cettainly been paying too little to French and Gern1an. .And educators are beginning to see this. The recent tneeting of college presidents, which discussed this question, showed the great change which has taken place in the educational world on this subject. There was a resolution offered at this meeting that the degree of A.B. should be given to no 1nan who could not read French and German with tolerable accuracy. \Vhether this resolution was carried or not has slipped our recollection. It should have been. If Greek and Latin give men broad gen- eral culture, if they possess the greatest literature, French and ·German are eminently practical and use- ful, their literature is not to be neglected, and for the scientist or philosopher an acquaintance with these tongues are indispensable to excellence. It surely cannot be right that men should graduate fron1 college, as under the present conditions 1nen do graduate, with as utter an ignorance of the history and literature of French and German as of the language of the canni- bals of the Feejee Islands. It will not be long, we think, before French and Gennan will form as impor- tant a part of the college curriculun1 as Gr~ek and Latin. the curriculum of our colleges and has pointed out J F there is a glee club here it should show itself. If how much neglected the study of French and Gennan there is not, oue should be got together as soon is in rnost of our institutions. If Mr. Ada1ns was wrong , as possible. Material enough is. here to form a good in the estimate he put on the ancient languages ; if club, and in view of the con1ing enterta1nment for the seeing the neglect of French and Gennan he went to benefit of the B. B. C., steps should be taken to select the extre1ne of opposjng Greek and Latin, he yet de- and train the tnen immediately. A glee club is, in the serves the credit of seeing that French and Gennan I line of amusements, one of the most pleasant and were neglected. We shall not atten1pt to show that I profitable associations connected wit~ a college. he was wrong in attacking the ancient languages. The subject has been so frequently and so well debated that it would be useless to repeat the arguments on the question. It is after all but a question of accunlu- lated experience. The experience of no one man , decides it, even supposing that this n1an could read : himself aright. Now Mr. Adams says that he believes i Greek and Latin did him no good. Not only cannot one be certain that he could know whether they did or not, but even then it does not follow but that they I N OT long since, in speaking of the joint debate between the literary societies we n1ade the sug- gestion that it would be a good plan to have these co1ne oftener than once a year. We 'announce with pleasure that this suggestion bids fair to be realized. Saturday Feb. 9, both of the societies appointed a comn1ittee to arrange for another debate, which will probably take place next term. ADA A flutt soft: upo

THE. CONCORDIENSIS. 75 THE OLD KITCHEN FIRE. N . OT for \ pleasure and palaces,'~ l vVith rich drawing-rooms Bedecked with the fruits Of famed Eastern looms, Nor for cold marble halls, Which many admire, Would I give mem'rys _fond Of the old kitchen fire. I see it again As I knew it of old, Its soft light transforming All objects to gold, When that home-circle dear, By Fate's behest dire All unbroken was drawn 'Round the old kitchen fire. There, gathered about In peace and content, The long winter evenings Were pleasantly spent; When cold blew the wind The wood we'd pile higher, And defy the storm king By the old kitchen fire. But cheerless that grate Once so bright is no-vv gro~rn, And the hearth with cold, Lifeless ashes is strown; While voices now sainted Swell the heavenly choir, That of old sweetly sang 'Round the old kitchen fire. Alone now I 'm wand'ring Through life's dreary main, A stranger to joy, A companion of pain; While to join those beyond, Is my prayer and desire, Who gathered of yore 'Round the old kitchen fire. -ROY~ '8s. LOVE, OR THE SAME OLD STORY. ADAPTED FROM THE ENGLISH OF BESANT AND RICE FOR THE CONCORDIENSIS BY J. J. HOWLS, JR. CHAPTER I. ALL was quiet in the valley of the lVlohawk, save now and then the wild laugh of the owllet as it fluttered frotn tree to tree. The n1oonbeams fell softly upon the boson1 of that placid river. The trees upon its banks stretched forth their shadows upon the waters as if delighting in their evening bath. Sudden- ly around a bend in the river glided swiftly and silently a tiny boat with but two occupants. It is useless to deceive the reader~ the forn1 in the stern was that of Georgiana Proudfoote, a fair and beautiful girl of nine- teen sun1mers. She had a wealth of golden hair, and . eyes of n1elting tenderness. Opposite her, resting on the oars, arrayed in light blue pants of the prevailing tightness, was none other than Felix Sirlney Blit~en­ snipe, a young man of goorl 1norals, education and I wealth. He was a descendant of that ancient Dutch aristocracy which laid the foundation of that pictur- esque town, Schenectady. At the time of our story he was a senior at Union College. The boat still glided on, but both were silent, seemingly in sweet com- munion with themselves. Yet a close observer might have discovered that the silence was embarrassing to both. The fingers of the young girl nervously toyed with the 1nouth-organ which had poured forth such soothing strains in the early evening. The sweetest rnusic would now have been discord to the scene. At length Georgiana, with a detennined pressure of the lips, broke the unnatural quiet. \ Mr. Blitzensnipe, you have been guilty of conduct unbecoming a gentleman, in endeavoring to e1nbrace a poor, defenseless girl, and that, too, near a college town. I have not words to express my indignation. I consider you beneath my notice. I despise you !\ The bitter feelings of the pure, young girl found utterance in those words. Their effect upon her com- panion was electric. Tossing the last remnants of their lunch into the limpid strean1let, Felix Sidney Blitzen- snipe raised his eyes full of supplication and burning love to the face of Georgiana. A tear coursed adown his pale cheek. ''The sandwiches are all gone, Georgy .. \ he said with a plaintive sigh ; and then, as if recollecting him- self, he continued in a voice of deep e1notion : \ Miss Proudfoote, I deserve your contempt. I 1nal{e no defense. I mn amazed at rny own boldness in allow- ing myself to show my affection so openly. But, Oh, Georgiana, who could know you and not love you? You are my soul-1ny life. Is there no reparation I can 1nake ? '' A slight pause followed this outburst, during which the proud young girl seen1ed to be inwardly suffering, then she slowly but firmly answered : \None ! \ The look of hope upon the young man's face passed suddenly away. A cold, stern glance shot fro1n his deep blue eyes in the direction of Georgiana. J ; 't ~ t' ' ·' : I .l •, .J ' ' I I ! i I .. ' I 1 I < ' ' I : \ ( .j ·=- i ' i . } ' ' • I ' ,· ,: ' I ., 1 1 ·' . ' I: I~ . ~ ' . ~ ' \ ; ' j ' ' I t :., ,, ' ;t l 1 t ·' ' 'i I

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. \Be it so,\ were the only words which fell from his \ North River. An hour or more before her departure, a compressed lips. young man drove hurriedly up in a carriage and Onward glided the boat, now swiftly propelled by alighted witl1 a sea-chair and a valise. It was Felix the desperate strokes of the oars1nan. Neither Felix Sidney Blitzensnipe. He had not taken 1nore than a nor Georgiana spoke. An insunnountable barrier dozen steps in the direction of the vessel, when a. seemed to have sprung up between thern. They were second carriage came upon the scene, from whose now within a short distance of the boat-house and . interior timidly stepped a young girl, heavily veiled. soon they stepped upon the beach. : She hastened after and soon overtook the young CHAPTER n. [. aristocrat. A little hand was laid upqn his arn1, he It had been rumored in Albany for more than a \ turned to discover its owner, and there beside him week that Felix Sidney Blitzensnipe, the darling young .saw her wholn he thought was miles away. lost to hin1 aristocrat of Schenectady was about to sail for Europe. forever. But none knew the reason for this sudden departure. \\Vhat does this ,mean, Georgiana? speak, child, do Some ten days after the events of our first chapter, not trifle with me,\ he demanded with terrible earnest- Felix Sidney might have been seen entering a hand- ness. some house on Elk street. He was shown to the \It tneans that- that-· I love you and forgive drawing roon1 by the liveried lackey, there to await the appearance of Miss Proudfoote. He occupied himself, during the few moments at his co1nn1and, by carelessly looking through the kaleidoscope which graced the central marble top table. While engaged in smelling some artificial flowers which stood in a large green vase upon the mantel, a rustle of skirts and a faint odor of delicate perfume told his beating heart that Georgiana was approaching. The meeting was cold. Both were self-possessed. Not a quiver could be detected in young Blitzensnipe's voice as he thus addressed her : \I have come to bid you good bye, Miss Proudfoote.\ The proud belle, Georgiana Proudfoote, could hard- ly control herself at this abrupt announcen1ent. \ Why surely you are not going away?\ she inquired you, dearest Felix.\ . In a moment the sea-chair and valise lay upon the ground, she was in his strong arms and his burning kisses fell thick and fast upon her sweet lips. As soon as he would release her she eagerly asked : \You won't go to Europe now, you cruel boy?\ \ No, Georgiana, lovliest of won1en, ' I shall not , ten1pt the sea to-day,' \ he replied. \ I have only one regret,\ she presently said, \n1ixed with my great joy : You 're a hundred dollars out on your passage ticket.\ \Then dismiss that regret at once,\ he reassuringly replied, while his loving eyes drank in her delicate beauty, \ I worked a pass.\ \Then our happiness is complete,\ 1nunnured the young girl, and hand in hand those two united souls passed up the street and were soon lost in life's busy in an unsteady voice. \Yes I am going to Europe. day on the Cynthia.'' I sail next Thurs- throng. THE END. He said all this slowly and with studied coldness. The young girl bore bravely up under this trying ordeal. Summoning all the courage of her proud nature, she was able to answer him in a tone of painful indifference. A LEGEND OF UNION COLLEGE. AT the. danger of printing a story that may be fa~iliar t.o some of our readers, we cannot forbear to pubhsh this article, which is said to have actually occurred at Union College some years ago.-[ Ens. \So soon ! I had hoped to see 1nore of you, Mr. Blitzensnipe. However, you must not forget to come and see me when you return.'' \ Come down to New York with us, Billy ; we '11 have a smashing big tilne, and you won't be likely to 1 run across your Governor, because business attractions will confine his attention to Wall street.\ A few co1nmonplace re1narks passed between them and soon Felix Sidney left the house. No sooner had the door closed upon his manly form, than Georgiana, the beautiful, the dignified, the graceful, with a wild wail of anguish, fell in a dead swoon into the arms of i the lackey. i CHAPTER lii. The good steamer Cynthia lay at her dock in the '' You fellows have an advantage, in the providential fact that your hon1es. are elsewhere thap in the great metropolis, and hence you can skip down for a few days without kicking up any kind of a rumpus. Hang it ! I 've half a tnind to run the risk.\ \By all means, old boy;· now you are talking sense. I We '11 go to-night, at six.\ th:: an tiv th£ to tra sp1 ln! hi~ tm be lat bu lig hi~ ab be lia yo . Sir wl M fo1 M Pl ·so . 111: al H th en th of ar:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 77 ''Done,'' cried three voices;. and the j~lly juniors [ I may look young, but I am not green enough to be separated to 1nake arrangements for absence.. taken in by a confidence man.\ So saying he wrenched Ton1my Rud sorrowfully informed his class officer I his arm away and went on again. that his aunt had died and he must attend the funeral. I Turning the next corner he looked back and saw his ''Lengthy\ Patterson had· to have a tooth filled father standing in the same place, looking more mysti- and consult the doctor about his asthma. fied than ever. . \ ~rinkle '' Jones ':ished to take leave of some rela- I Suddenly an idea seemed to strike him forcibly ; he tives JUS~ about to sa1l for Europ~. . I frantically hailed an uptown 01nnibus and entered it. But Brlly Montague gave the tip to so1ne of his pals i This action caused Billy to look sad. \By Jove; I that he was likely to be ill for a few days, and unable 1 wonder if he is going to the depot ! '' to attend recitations. i The next bus was boarded by Montague junior, who At n1idnight, four lively-looking college n1en left the I arrived at the Grand Central just in tiine to see his train at New York, all primed and ready for a n1ild · father leave the ticket office with a white slip in his spree. hand. \That settles it,\ said Billy, as he purchased The following n1orning, as Billy Montague was walk- a ticket for Schenectady and climbed stealthily into ing up Broadway, he was so1newhat startled to behold the smoking car. his father about fifteen yards in front, con1ing directly The scenery along the Hudson River Road is very towards him. \Egad said Billy, '' I think I had beautiful, but Billy did not have tin1e to take it in. better step into this store a minute.'' But he was too He was watching the door. At Albany a few n1inutes late. His father's eyes had lit upon him, and instantly were allowed the passengers for lunch, but Billy bulged out with astonishn1ent at seeing their pride and thought he had better stay right where he was. The light in such an unexpected place. old gentlen1an climbed out and took a good square Billy walked on with a look of perfect unconcern in n1eal. his face, gazed indifferently at his father, and was Fron1 Greenbush to Schenectady the rear platfonn about to pass him, when the old gentlen1an stepped up of the last car was good enough for Billy. before him and said, extending his hand, \ Why, Wil- 1 . Just as the train rounded the curve into the station lian1, 1ny son; this is very unexpected. What brings I Billy swung lightly off and n1ade rapid time to his you down here; it is not vacation, is it?\ I roon1. It was the work of a very few n1inutes to Bill answered, with a look of surprise,\ Beg pardon, j change his clothes, don his dressing-g~wn, and settle i sir; you have the advantage of n1e. I do~'t know · down to a do n't-disturb-n1e-while-I-am-grubbing atti- .._;;; who you are.\ tude. \But n1y dear Willia1n, I atn your father, }a1nes , Presently a knock was heard. \Cotne in,\ sang Montague. You don't mean to say that you have I Billy. The door opened and there stood Mr. Man- forgot-\ tague, too much dun1bfounded to say a word. \ Mr. Montague, you are n1istaken in the person. Billy jun1ped up and walked briskly across the roon1. My name is not Montague, and I atn not your son. \This is an unexpected pleasure, father; I am real Please, allow 1ne to pass.\ glad to see you; co1ne right in and let n1e take your- \Well Willian1, I think I ought to know 1ny own coat. Too bad I did not know you were coming, I 'son.\ tnight have 1net you at the depot. How well you are \And I feel equally confident that I should recog- looking. Let n1e see; I have not seen you for nearly nize n1y father if I were to see hin1.\ ten weeks.'' Bi1ly looked bored and passed on, leaving Mr. Mon- \Why vVilliatn, n1y son. I-a-. I an1 surprised to ague standing there with an air of serious perplexity. find you here. I thought that-a-you-I have tnade He had not walked far when he felt hi1nself seized by a great Inistake.\ the arm, and, turning around, encountered his now \What do you 1nean, father? You will always find enraged parent. _me here while college is in session.\ \ Con1e, Willia1n ; this won't do. You can't pull \ Certainly ; of course, n1y son ; that is right. Of the wool over 1ny eyes. I want you to coine to n1y course you are here. Mother wanted 1ne to con1e up office and explain matters.\ and see how you were getting along. You know she Billy looked intensely annoyed. \Sir let go 111y worries so.\ ann and stop pestering me, or I will call a policeman. I \Ah yes, father; I see.\ \ ' \ i i I. I I l 1 I I '. ' ' . I. I' I i . ! I : i . t .

. l . t I .I ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. An hour later Montague senior and Montague jun- ior locked arms and went to tea.-The Argo. THE joint de~ate betwe~n _the A delphic ~nd Philo- not destroy, their force. Mr. McCown. then closed for the affinnative reviewing the arguments, pro and con, and closed in an eloquent appeal that neither prejudice nor respect for age should stand in the way of removing an institution so clearly proved antiquated and useless for the purpose intended. Mr. Stoller closed for the negative and ended the debate. This speech of the gentleman was one that for clear- ness of expression and purity of reasoning would have done credit to an Erskine. If there was any doubt of the issue of the debate it was now ended. The debate was decided in favor of the negative n1aking five debates won by the Adelphics out of a total of six. ~ OBITUARY. O N Feb. I Ith Mr. Orlando Meads, of Albany, died at the residence of his daughter, Mrs. D. Duer, ofWeehawken, N.J., in the seventy-eighth year of his age. Mr. Meads graduated at this college and was one of the £ounders of the Union chapter of the Kappa Alpha society. After leaving college he studied law and in I 830 was admitted to the bat. Mr. Meads was a man of fine literary taste and ability, and was noted for his active interest in all educational 1natters. His recent address at the presentation of the bust of his old col- lege-mate and life-long friend, Prof. Isaac. Jackson, was ren1arkable for its gracefulness and the happy por- trayal of the life and character of the deceased. At the ti1ne of his death Mr. Meads was vice-chancellor and one of the chapter of All Saints Cathedral. mathean hterary soc1et1es took place 1n the col- lege chapel on the evening of Feb. 1st. The judges were Prof. Chaplin, Lieut. Hubble and Judge Jackson. The question in dispute was : \Resolved That trial by jury should be abolished.\ rfhe Adelphic, repre- sented by Messrs. Stoller, Bailey and Parsons, sustained the negative : the Philomathean, represented by Messrs. McCown, Benedict and Griswold, the affirma- tive. Mr. McCown, the leader for the affinp.ative, opened the debate in a c1ear and powerful speech, mentioning in general the evils of the systen1, its abuses, and the universal dernand for a change. He outlined the arguments of the affirmative and left to his associates the task of dwelling on and 1naking more clear the arguments advanced. Mr. Stoller, for the negative, admitted that there were evils in the jury syste1n, but clailned that the systen1 should be cor- rected-not destroyed. He pointed out how much service the institution has done for the progress- the civilization- of man and asked, \ Shall we destroy this system which has done so 1nuch good, which is capable of doing so much more, and raise in its place a system novel and untried? \ He then laid out the line of proof for the negative. Mr. Griswold, second 1nan for the affirmative, vividly and rninutely portrayed the evils of the jury system and claimed that perfect justice can only be secured from a jury of intelligent educated men,., a bench of judges. Mr .. Bailey, for the negative, stated that juries were instituted to try LOCALS. and judge of matters of fact not of law. That judges d W INTER is waning. preside to decide questions of law an therein instruct The snow is fast disappearing. the jury as far as necessary~ That the very learning of . judges son1etimes disqualifies them from fonning a Leap year parties are attracting considerable atten- correct opinion on matters of every-day experience tion. with which n1en in the ordinary lines of life are per- Hasten to contest for THE CoNCORDIENSIS ·prizes. fectly familiar. It was Mr. Benedict's task to show \ Strike while the iron is hot.\ the benefits of trial by judges. He n1ade his points clearly and forcibly. Judges, said he, are more intel- Song of the seniors when they have a bolt in 1noral ligent than the ordinary juryman, less subject to brib- philosophy. \ Agnes ( agnusy) where art thou.\ ery, to the influence of perverted eloquence and alone It was reported that\ Pendy '' had gone to Cornell, able to retain the details of a protracted trial. If the- but such is not the case. He is still resident in Troy. trial by jury were abolished and trial by judges substi- There is some talk among the 1nembers of the tuted justice would not be the farce that now, alas, it Athletic association about purchasing a rowing ma- oftimes is. Mr. Parsons, for the negative, confined chine. his attention almost exclusively to the arguments of Mr. Benedict and he certainly weakened, if he did Mosher has laid in a stock of collars and cuffs for the tis<: hOl the get me ow . g1v wh me est on pu: of ha~ wil C01 wil ha bu lU en: wb La In wl~ op se1 ist pre Et hi~ Cl hi~

'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 79 the accon1modation of the students. See his adver'\ · ' tisement on page vi. Lieut. Hubble does not like to have the freshmen · horned- at least so says one 0f the profs. to .whotn · the lieut. cotnplained. Junior in physiology :-'' You may talk about oxy- . gen, hydrogen and nitrogen sustaining life, but give me some good old Holland gin.\ Persons unconnected with the college, especially boys, frequent the gym! and appropriate things to their own use. It is about tin1e this was stopped. On Monday the 2 sth, at the court house, is to be given .a drama £or the benefit of Christ Church, in . which a number of the students will appear. Mr. Anable is 1naking it very pleasant for the sopho- mores in Clarke's English. His talks are very il;_tter- esting and the boys certainly appreciate his efforts. The college from ti1ne to tilne makes a sale of lots on the avenue in the rear of the college for building purposes. One of the secret societies was offered one of these plots for a chapter house. We are pleased to state that some new apparatus has made its appearance in the \gym.\ How long it will remain we will not attempt to say. \Whence it cometh and whither it goeth ye know not.\ The inter-collegiate tournan1~nt of college athletes will take p]ace at Mott Haven sometime in May. We have heard that sorne of our men 1night participate, but nothing definite has been decided upon. --~------- Report has it that the Sopho1nores and quite a num- ber of upper class men make Wieneke's even more regularly :than they make any of the other Profs. ''Charley\ says he is ready to grant diplo1nas to sev- eral '84 men as they have taken ten spots in him for this term. An attempt has lately been made to revive the long defunct glee club. A meeting of all the singers in college was called in the chapel and the tnatter was . there discussed. Whether any definite result was reached was unknown. However, a portion of it did good service on prayer day. The freshtnen are drilling at present three days of the week and are well advanced in the rudiments of war. The other day they shouldered arms and 1narched down street to the music of the drum. A company of upper class men are also drilling once a week. No appointment has been made of a successor to \Col.\ Pickett. It is probable that none will be made before spring. The absence of the \ Col.\ is already very noticeable in and about the college buildings. We doubt very much if any one can be got who will fill his place. A graduate of Union, of days before the war, living in the far south, intends leaving to the college consid- : erable property in this country, and also a possession which will fall, or has fallen, to hitn in France. All essays have been postponed fqr two weeks and the several classes have been receiving some im- portant lectures on thought and the 1node of think- ing, by Prof. Lan1oreaux. This series of lectures, or rather inforn1al talks, has been done away with for several years past and has· now for the first time been revived. • The season for class suppers has again arrived. At a meeting of the sopho1nore class, held in the chapel, it was unanin1ously de<?ided to have a class supper at as early a date as possible. A comn1ittee of five was accordingly appointed to 1nake arrangements and L. W. Groat was elected toast-master. 'rhe supper will be held at Wrights, in Troy, Feb. 24th. In our December number we annonnced that T. E. Lawler had left college. The report was unfounded. In our last number a typographical error crept ih while endeavoring to correct our previous mistake. When is the long expected reference library to be opened for the use of debaters, who are called upon to settle ( ? ) the affairs of the nation, and of the essay- ists seeking to lay a broad foundation of 1nental im- provement? Dr. Potter sailed on Wednesday, Feb. 13th, for Europe. He is expected to return in May. During his stay abroad he will visit Mantone, where Mrs. Clarkson N. Potter has a villa, and Florence, where his only sister resides. Now that the winter is aln1ost gone and the snow is fast dissolving, our thoughts are turned forward to the titne when out-door sports will again be revived. The memory of the field-day with which we were favored last autumn is still fresh in our 1ninds and awakens a desire that we may be favored with one in the con1ing . spnng. At a meeting of the trustees, held Jan. 25th, at Al- bany, the degree of D.D. was conferred on Prof. Alexander. A request was received fro1n the Psi ' ' I I I I ,,. I. I ' ' I : l l 1 I ; . I j I i ' ' ' i l I I , I : I ! i , I I I l j II ' I j I l I / i l l I : 1 \ l I ! ! I ! I i I 1

So THE ,CQNCORDIENSIS. Upsilon society for a piece .of college ground on which information necessary, without waiting for the usual to erect a $25,ooo chapter house. It was agreed that circulars, postal cards, etc., which remind the1n of · Prof. Staley should continue to act as treasurer. After 1 their duty. The alurnni of the college are found in the transaction of sotne routine business the n1eeting all the .great centres of activity on our broad continent, adjourned. as well as in the re1notest and most unexpected cor- At a meeting ?f the senior class held Feb. 15th H. ners of it. They also turn up in India, Syria, S0uth V. N. Phillip was unanirnously elected toastlnaster of America, and South Africa. Nearly $500 of the the forthcoming class supper and A. H. K. Jervis necessa;ry amount for the publication of this catalogue base ball director by acclamation. It is hoped that has been contributed by three or four gentletnan. immediate steps will be taken to procure funds to de- President Potter recently paid a visit to Hobart fray expenses of the nine. college where a grand reception was tendered him by An awful racket was tnade in one of the sections in the faculty and a number of pron1inent citizens. The South college the other evening. Investigation proved president returned much pleased with his visit, and that several sophomores were singing ( ?) that ballad , there seems to be a strong oelief at Hobart that he which appeared in our January number the first verse ' will accept the call to the presidency of that college. of which is : \ Good bye sweet heart since we n 1 ust Every possible induce1nent was given hin1._ The part,\ etc. The boys were singing it to the tune of financial condition of the college was fully set forth \Auld Lang Syne,\ but candor compels us to state and he was given to understand that should he accept that the concert was not a success. the presidency, Hobart would see an era of prosperity A meeting of the comn1ittee having in charge the arrangetnents for the college fair was held on the I 1th inst. But few were present and the outlook was dis- couraging. As it appears to be a failure, would it not be well to set about trying something else? A dra- matic association is talked of and we have no doubt it would acco1nplish good results. Considerable might be made in this and adjoining towns. Prof. Wells returned fro1n Bern1uda during the present week. On Tuesday evening, Feb. 19th he delivered a lecture in the State-street Methodist church on his travels in Bern1uda. The lecture was very interesting, and all who attended were fully repaid. The adn1ission was only .fifteen cents. The professor has been absent nearly two 1nonths, and on his return was heartily welcon1ed. The 1neetings of the college Y. M. C. A., we regret to say, are not very well attended. There see1ns to be a general lack of in.terest atnong the st1dents 1 in regard to religious matters. In one of our earlier issues we n1ade some apology for this on the ground that the hour was very inconvenient to most students. This, however, seetns scarcely the true reason as almost any one can spare a few minutes once a week to attend these n1eetings. Even the church n1e1nbers among the students are seetningly as disinterested as the rest. \ hitherto unequalled. The president will sail for Europe about the n1iddle of the present n1onth, and in his absence his duties as professor will be asstuned by Professor Larnoreaux ; as president, by Prof. Staley. Those of us who adrnire the beautiful in nature, will look with horror upon the barbarous work which is being done under our very eyes. The beautiful hill of pines, which was once the pride of this vicinity and one of the n1ost beautiful spots in this city- a n1ost perfect natural park- is fast disappearing. It was at one tin1e thought of as a site for the college observa- tory, but the rivalry and wealth of Albany put that out of the question, and the idea was abandoned. It is a very shame that in this rich city such a spot as that is allowed t<J go to ruin, when it might be n1ade into a park the peer of which could not be found. Those who have had occasion to visit the city of the dead, and there are many an1ong us who have, will ren1etn- ber what .a delightful walk it always was through this forest of pines, The view could not be excelled in all the town. But now it is fast disappearing, and only a blot upon the fair surface of this city will show where once one of nature's most beautiful spots had been. Is this civilization? Is this the advancement towards · perfection? Oh ! that a s1nall grain of. the know~edge of the fitness of things could be infused into the 1ninds of the citizens in this advancing age. 1\'he preparation of a general catalogue is 1naking good progress. The cornpilers would be helped mate- , Son1eti1nes when a 1nan puts his soul (sole) into his rially if many of the graduates would volunteer the work he also puts his foot into it. sl 0 l e i] ( (: b t< 0 \ , . I f . 1 1 ] , .c: 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 8t OUR VALENTINES.* TO our Pres.-· Bon voyage ! To_ our Prof. Nat. PhiL-An Em·eritus professor- ship. To our Prof. of Greek-The respect and affection of all. To our Prof. of Modern Languages-· A speedy re- return and restored health. To our Prof. of Chen:listry-· More sand. To our Dean-A sure cure for rheurnatism. To our Prof. of Mathematics-. Health. To our Adj. Prof. of Physics-A long residence at Union. To our Prof. of Latin-A prayer book. To the head of the Dept. of Essays-An essay on ·the Benefits and Evils of writing on the benefits and ! evils of- To our Prof. of Pol. Econ.-A D. D. To our Prof. of Mechanical Engineering-A cradle. I To our Prof. of Military Instruction-Temperantia in 01nnibus. To our Tutor in Mathen1atics-A client. To the students-A receipted subscription CoNCORDIENSIS. for the *We had intended to illustrate profusely the above, representing ou.r P. D. (a freshman) handing the different valentines to their respective recipients, but the thought of the forthcoming class supper rendered our special artist totally unfit for his customary duty, and we tru.st the vivid imaginations of our, readers will fill the deficiency. WHAT HAPPENETH IN THE COLLEGE WORLD. W ILLIAMS.-The ball nine is the best the college has had in some years. The glee club is in active practice. \The Alpine Rose,\ which was brought out not long ago at the Madison Square Theatre. Colu1nbia has withdrawn from the Childs Cup con- test and Cornell takes her place. The challenge to Harvard has not yet received a reply. UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA. -The sophomores held their class supper Friday, Jan. ·sth. The freshmen celebrated liltewise on the I 8th. The mar Icing system has been changed. There are nine grades-perfect,. excellent, very good, good, medium, passable, inferior, bad, and failure. DARTMOUTH.-· The ninth annual dinner of the Dart- mouth alumni in Cincinnati and vicinity was held on the evening of Jan. I gth. A telegraph company IS being fonned among the students. '86 has a glee club. The literary work done by the faculty last year is extren1ely creditable to the college. It consists of four books, all of which have met with success. . . MADISON.-The reason why the ·base ball interests were not represented at the convention in Utica, was that no notification of any ki~d was received from Rochester. The seniors are conten1plating a public debate in the opera house some time prior to co1nn1encen1ent. · RuTGERs.-By an act of the legislature, provision has been made that the students of the scientific department be instructed in military tactics. The faculty have only allowed one hour a week for such instruction. A coasting accident took place on one of the favor- GENERAL COLLEGE NEWS. ite slides a short ti1ne since. The sled,. on which. were s HINKEL, Cornel~'s cele~rat~d oarstnan, has been a number of students, ran into a stone bridge at the 1 heard fro1n agmn. This tnne he has been en- foot of the hill and the steerer, a senior, was almost · gaged in the delightful pastime of robbing graves. instantly killed. Others were injured. The pockets of his fellow collegians was too small The Gut has appeared and is an itnprovement over gaine for hiin.-Acta. the one of last year. The second annual convention of the Inter-Collegi- 1 ate Press Association met in Cam bridge on Dec. 27th. AMHERST.-George M. Cable lectured in Atnherst, Delegates were present from An1herst Student, Brunon- Friday evening, Feb. 8th. . . . . . M b f h b 11 · t k' b . 1 . zan, Herald- Crunson, Unzverszty Magazzne, and Acta em ers o t e . a nine are a tng oxing essons C !. b . f h . . . : o um zana. Good work was done by the conven- . as a part o t eir trmntng. : . .. rrh 1 1 b . d b '11' . . ~ ' tlon . . e g.ee c ~ rec~Ive a n ·Iant reception ·trom Mr. Crawford, the author of \Mr. Isaacs,\ etc., their audience In .spnng~eld. 1 was forn1erly a student at Harvard and received a Pach open_ed hts studio about Feb. I~tn. . diploma in sanskrit under Prof. Lantnan. Doxology IS the latest name for the senior physiology. i The Yale glee club has den1anded $I zoo from the CoLUMBIA.-Several theatre parties were formed to Ohio & Mississippi Railroad Cotupany for datnages attend the first perforn1ance of Prof. Boyesen 's play, from loss and delay in engagen1ents.

82 THE CONCORDIENSIS. .Albany Law School. records, are those of the class of r 862, viz.: the Web- ster club, Mansfield club and Associated Congress. In 1872 the clubs were: University co.urt, Edwards, . Editors Co1uordiensis : ALBANY, Jan. 21, r884. Allen, Evarts, and 290 clubs, University Lyceum, Wash- . ington Literary association and Associated congress. In your Decen1ber nunlber (History of the Alba- The oldest record of class officers shows S. F. Brown ny Law School) you say \ !h~ first class graduated . to have been president of the class of I 867. Ehner but twenty~three n1en.\ Thls IS an error. The first ; A. Hancock was president of the class of r868, N. D. class contained twenty-three n1en but graduated only ' Arnot, Jr., of the class of 1 g 70 , w 1 n. A. Smith of the seven, to wit: Edwin E. Bronk, Charles A. Fo\vler, class of 187r, S. A. K.ennedy of 1872, G. L. Farnu1n \Vorthington Frothinghain, \Villard P. Gatnbell, John of class of I873, Charles W. Brown of I874, Charles C. McClure, Edward \Vade and George \i\Tolford. Of A. Fowler of I87S, John P. Dorr of r876, A. N. Fitch these, Bronk, Garnbell, lVIcClure and Wolford are of 1 3 77 , Irving w. Cole of r88J, and J. H. Davidson dead. The fact is not very in1portant, perhaps, but of 1884 . it is as well to be correct, even in trivial n1atters. For many years the diploma of the school was, by ALUMNUS. statute, made sufficient to adtnit the student to the bar HISTORY OF ALBANY LAW SCHOOL. CHAPTER III. without any further examination, hut jealousy of rival institutions and opposition by me1nbers of the bar in- duced the Legislature to repeal the law. It is but justice to the school, however, to state that never since I N the su1nmer of 1879, after careful consultation, the revocation of this power has a graduate of the Hon. Horace E. Stnith was chosen dean of the school failed to pass the regular examination prescribed school, and immediately thereafter assumed control of by the Court of Appeals. its affairs. To the position Prof. Smith brought long One of the noticeable ilnprovements effected since experience as a successful lawyer, ind0mitable energy Prof. Smith's connection with the school is the addi- and great learning, and it was largely through his tion of many valuable works to the library. influence with the late Thomas W. Olcott that the in1- The success of the Albany Law School 1nay be proved accommodations of the school were obtained. . largely attributed to ·the interest taken in its welfare by Indeed fron1 the moment Prof. Smith assu1ned control the justices of the higher courts. Judges Harris and of the school its affairs began to take on a brighter . Parker were active in its inauguration, and through aspect, and improvement in its n1anagement and sue- 1nany years served its interests faithfully. Chancellor cess has marked every year of his administration. Walworth did not think it beneath his dignity to lend The school has graduated nearly two thousand tnen . a helping hand to the school. Judge Wn1. F. Allen and has had upon its role nearly as many 1nore who 1 was actively connected with it for many years, and to- did not take a con1plete course. Its students have j day one of the ablest and most prominent representa- been gathered from nearly every State in the Union, 1 tives of the bench, Ron. William L. Learned, gives and not a few foreigners have pursued a course of ! very valuable assistance. study there. The school has been a success since its foundat!on. l\1any of its graduates are known to fame, some hav- The course, covering but a single year, offers induce- ing been called upon to don the judicial ermine, some ments to many young men who would otherwise be having served in Congress, some having won laurels \ unable to attend where a longer c9urse is necessary; on the field of battle, several have enjoyed gubernato- 1 but what is to the student's advantage, in this case, is rial honors, and many have won their fame as the i not to the advantage of the school, for the course is I brilliant lights of the legal profession. I not long enough to inspire one with that interest which I Moot courts, in which questions or causes previous- · a long course would do, and the result is that it re- ly given out are argued by four of the students, were ceives no endowments. organized at the foundation of the school and are still The school is entitled to the respect, confidence and continued. Moot court clubs, .debating and literary support of the public. It has been supported and societies have also been organized nearly every year . sustained for over thirty years by a few men of sincere since the foundation of the school. The oldest clubs, purpose and generous heart .. At the ti1ne of its organ- as to the existance of which there are any authentic ization it had no competitor in this section of the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. country, except that of I-Iarvard. It was a new enter- prise, born of the generous purpose to build up here a ; seat of legal learning, to raise the standard of legal education. Inspired by its past record and present success, with a larger and abler faculty than ever before, with the well- wishes of hundreds of graduates, and with better accommodations than in times past, the school bids fair to live on to a noble future. A seditious libel embraces all of those practices, whether by word, deed or writing, which are calculated to disturb the tranquility of the state and bring the administration of justice into conten1pt or ridicule. To those who are aggrieved by a libel, two courses are open.: either to prosecute the offender criminally by indictment, or to seek redress by a civil action; but there are cases where the injured party has a remedy by action, though the wrong-doer is not crilninally punishable. The principle is, that whenever an action NOTE.-Acting upon the suggestions of felk>w students who were anxious I wi11 lie tor a libel without showing special damages, an to know something of the history of the Law School, I attempted to gather enough together to give a brief and general history of it. There seems to be : indictment will also lie. 'Vhile on the other hand no records from which to obtain the desired information, and that which I I there .are cases (the gist of which is the loss to the have been able to collect has been meagre indeed. Taking hold of arduous 1 duties, whose difficulties I did not comprehend and have been unable to over- i person libeled and not a criminal offence) which are come, I heg the indulgence of whomsoever it may concern. : the subject of civil but not of crirninal proceeding. F. E. S. 0 h h 1 d . n t e ot er 1an sometimes a person is cri1ninally LIBEL AND SLANDER. Perhaps there is not one thing in itself so dangerous ; It is clearly established, as a rule, that in a civil action to society and its individual 1ne1nbers as the brother j the truth of the 1natter is a good defence, or as a bar demons -libel and slander. While slander flourishes :· to special dmnages, whereas in a criminal action it I ' 'n1id the angry pasions (conceived and born in a 1no- : does not an1ount to a good defence, unless it be proved though not civilly liable for what he has written. This is often the case when the matter of the libel is true .. ( ment) libel seeks a place of quietude. It does not I that it was for the public benefit that the matter should spring into existence in a 1noment, but is the fruit of / be published. careful thought and deliberate preparation. Slander is but libel stripped of its written expression For this reason it is 1nore to be despised than and conveyed to the others, not by signs, pictures or slander. In relation to a 1nan's happiness, slander is print, ~ut by sound- by word of voice. hornicide -· libel, 1nurder. The daily paper that 'fhere are two kinds of slander : that which is crim- leaves the press to-day clothed in n1oderate lcmguage, inal and that ·which is civil. The first will lie \vi thou t n1ay to-1norrow bear upon its sheets a libel that will · showing da1nage ; the latter will not lie without special split asunder the happiness of its victin1 and 1nake him damages being clearly shown. In the follo1ving case an object of the prying curiosity of an inquisitive pub- an action will lie without special damages being proven : lie. A 1nan 1nay write of another with no n1alicious (I) For all words spoken of another which may intent, (in fact), but in such a n1anner as will be to haYe the effect of excluding hi1n from society. that other of injury, and at the same tilne of no 1narked I ( 2) For all words spol{en of another which impute benefit to the public. This would be libel. Truth to hin1 a critne, the con1mission of \vhich would be may justify an· assertion; but not always. He who I punishable by law. wishes to write of another-not in defence of hilnself : (3) For writing or publishing anything 1vhich will -should consider two things, viz: Would the written I n1ake another appear rediculous or conten1ptible; but expression of his thoughts work an injury to the object ; this does not exceed the li1nits of fair criticisn1s. A of the1n? 2nd. Would such written expression be of I fair, liberal criticisn1, however uncon1plin1entary, is not public benefit? Any article of a public nature that a libel. For instance, if r should say, \ Friend B has would detna.nd the answer yes to the first query, and I not sat in a chair fifteen n1inutes since his atten 1 pted the answer 1zo to the second query, would without settlen1ent in Albany, owing to his n1oving night and doubt be a libel: the valuation of .which would depend day.\ This woUld not be libel, for it is a fair criticisn1; upon an intelligent jury. A libel is a n1alicious I but if I should say that \1VIr. B drew a powder pistol defamation made public either by printing, writing, i on an aged lady,\ I should be nearing the verge of libel. signs or pictures, tending either to blacken the metnory . It constitutes a n1ore serious offence to en1body the of one who is dead, or the reputation of one who is . objectionable n1atter in writing than n1erely to give alive, by exposing hhn or his inetnory to public hatred, : verbal utterance to it. To n1ake a writing a libel, it contempt or ridicule. n1ust be published or div·ulged to others; otherwise it

THE CONCORDIENSIS. will not be libel. The proprietor of a newspaper or and imagine that they hear the clanking bondage other principal is liable both civilly and criminally for chains cotning down upon thetn. acts of his servant, in· the publication of a libel. It · \It is well known that the liberty of the press has would be exceedingly dangerous to hold otherwise, for •. always been the favorite watchword by those who live then an irresponsible person 1night be put forward and by its licentiousness. It has been fro1n ti1ne imtnem- the person really producing· the publication 1night orial, is still, and ever will be, the perpetual decanta- remain behind and escape. However, it is now pro- tion on the lips of all libellors.\ There is hardly a vided that the defendant, principle or agent, may prove · public Inan in or out of office who has not at sotne that the publication was n1ade without his authority, ti1ne been the unhappy victim of newspaper libel. consent or knowledge, and that the said publication \ Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou did not arise fro1n want of due care or caution on his shalt not escape calumny.\ The only requisite is part. amount to something in a free country, \ Censure is One of the 1nost serious of all libels or slanders the tax a n1an pays to th;~ public for being eminent.\ consists in imputing to another the actual comtnission · A man may live a long life, when old and tottering of sotne crilne or i.ndictable offence. This so unmis- beneath the infirm.aties of his ag~, if he can look back takably detracts fron1 any 111an's character and reputa- and view a nan1e founded upon honor and integrity, tion, that to say, or write, or publish such imputation his dirn eyes will glisten and his heart will throb with is a cause of action whether or not the plaintiff has pride ; but the scathing, cutting tongue of the sian- suffered special damages. _ derer or the pen of the libellor may rob him and the As might be supposed, this itnputuation is seldom memory of man of this. last boon, and place in i!s made in direct terms, qut usually is to be irnplied out stead a sting that will poison his past career, consign- of sotne existing circumstance, whether it is express . ing him to an ignominious grave. ·For this reason, if and direct, or merely implied, is a matter of evidence i for no other, let us be careful how we handle the name I for the court and jury, and the result when obtained is 1 of another. Let us not say, \ what's in a name? that the same. • which we call a rose, by any other name would smell But when· the words are ambiguous, or are acco1n- I as sweet,\ but rather in the words of Bryant, utter, panied with some comn1ents which qualify their general \So live that when thy sutnmons cotnes tb join the meaning, it then becomes in1portant to ascertain innumerable caravan which moves to that mysterious whether the effect of the whole language is to impute realm, where each shall take his chamber in the silent a crime or only some conduct approaching but not 1 halls of death,\ that each may go with unfaltering reaching a definite crime. Any cri1ninal proceeding steps and a clear conscience, detesting and condemn- for libel was not known until the time of Richard II- ing anything that will pull a tnan from the pinnacle before that time mere words were not actionable with- of honor and sink him in a libellous, hissing sea of out special damages. Lord Dorchester in I 66o ·received a verdict against the defendant for saying of hhn, \ He is no .more to be trusted than a dog.\ Lord Tounsend in I676 brought an action against Dr. Hughes for saying, \He is an im1noral man and acts against law and reason.\ The jury gave a verdict for $2o,ooo. The Duke of York in I682 obtained a verdict of $soo,ooo against one Pilkington. This was an action for slander. The defendant said in public that the Duke had burned the city and was now co1ue to cut the people's throat. Such is the freedom of speech and the press ! No one would wish to infringe upon the liberty of the press, but those who abuse the privilege are the first to look indignant, and with tears in their eyes view the distant \horison crying, Oh ! departed liberty ! 1 ' disgrace. C. F. A. MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY, AUSTRALIA. Australia is an island-continent containing five colo- nies : Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and West Australia. About zoo n1iles south lies the island of Tasmania, once called Van Die1nan's Land, which forms another colony ; While I 2 oo miles east are the islands of New Zealand, forming the seventh colony. Australia and Tasmania cover an are of 3,ooo,ooo square miles and have nearly 3,ooo,ooo inhabitants. In Australia, there are three Universities-Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide-and there is one in New Zealand. As the University of Melbourne is the largest and 1nost influential, it is our purpose to say something about it. T'his university embraces four departments; the arts school, law school,

f THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1nedical school and school of engineering. In the remaining three are spent in the study of law, history, arts school the curriculun1 extends over a period of : etc. When the degree of bachelor of laws is con- three years, leading up to the degree of B.A. The ferred the fortunate possessor of it may be called to candidate 1nust pass an ~ntrance exatnination which ' the bar without further trial. After the expiration of appears to hitn a gigantic barrier. He knows that · three years the LL. B. 1nay beco1ne a candidate for regularly something like two-thirds of the applicants : LL. D., but he is wonderfully blessed if he can obtain are \plucked and that he n1ust do his level best to it, inastnuch as the exatnination is terribly severe. be successful. Ten subjects are given him, in any six : Son1e, however, are s1nart enough. We retnember of ·which he must pass in order to n1atriculate. Upon one man who had a particularly bri11iant course, the the ringing of a signal bell at 9 A. M. he pushes his / following being his record : B. A., at the age of r 8 ; way, with a crowd of perhaps 700 others, through the i M. A. and LL. B., at the age of zo; LL. D., at the coridors into one of the exan1ination roo1ns. Taking age of 23. The owner of the last natned degree is his seat, he reads the printed regulations and then ap- addressed with the prefix Dr., for. the title is of the plies himself to his first paper for which he is allowed highest value. two hours. Then, having folded his paper neatly and The n1edical course lasts five years; the first year is handed it to the presiding officer {generally a gradu- the same as arts, and the re1naining four are devoted ate), he leaves the room., to return again, 1nay be, in exclusively to 1nedicine and surgery. No ti1ne need an hour for his second paper. His exan1jnation lasts be spent with a practiseing physician, for it is not three days. When it is over he may be obliged to required by the university. The 1nan who can forge wait a week or two for the publication of the results. along for five years without being plucked receives the Directly the time cotnes for such publication he hast- degrees of M. B. and B. S. (Bachelor of Medicine ens with anxious heart to the University quadrangle to and B.achelor of Surgery). With these he 1nay read the list posted there. He counts the number of becorne \legally qualified\ to practice his profession. capital P's placed after his name, and if he has ob- Upon the expiration of three years n1ore spent in pri- tained at least six he is \through and n1ay enter his vate or hospital practice, he may attempt to get the name as an undergraduate. Having thus n1atricu~ated degrees of M. D. and M. S. (Doctor of Medicine and he begins his course. There are several subjects laid Master of Surgery). \Ve say attempt because the down for the first year, fro1n which he n1ust select exa1nination, e1nbracing, as it does, topics as well as five, two being Latin and Greek. At Oxford or profPs~ipnal subjects, is so difficult that it is ahnost Cambridge in England a student is largely guided by itnpossible for one busily engaged every day to pre- his own tastes, so is the student at Melbourne. After pare for and pass. the first year no subjects are co~pulsory, but every- The School of engineering detnands a three year's thing is left to a man's choice. At the end of each university training, and two years in the field, for the year there is a rigid exmnination, when two-thirds are certificate of C .. E., \vhich is not (or was not a short again \plucked and many of the ren1aining third ti1ne ago) a degree. left scarcely a feather to fly with. Those who do get· through 1nay- a week afterwards- atte1npt a difficult exan1ination for honors, where there are three classes, BRIEFS. T HIS 1nonth closes the second tern1. first, second and third; and he who gets into one of Several of the students are absent from the these n1ay boast that he has not only passed, but passed with honors. If the undergraduate be lucky enough to steer ahead without once failing (how few do it, though), he 1nay receive the degree of bachelor of arts, with the initials written in the English fashion, viz: B. A. and not A. B. Two years afterward he n1ay take the M. A. by passing a rigid exan1ination. The curriculun1 for the degree of LL. B. covers a period of school on account of sickness. Prof. Stnith was taken suddenly ill on vVednesday 1 last, since which titne he has been unable to attend to his duties at the school. The whole school unite in wishing hi1n a speedy recovery. The lectures now in progress are Prof. Smith on ;' Negotiable Instrutnents,'' and Prof. Sickles on \ Evi- four years, unless the candidate be a B. A. and then ! dence.\ I he may finish in two years.· The first year is almost ' During the past month, Hon. N. C. Moak has the satne as in the arts course, four subjects being re- , delivered several very interesting and instructive quired instead of five. The first year ended, the j lectures on \ Books.\

• r II ' I ' . I I I ' : ~ ' I; ' ' I l . ' ' ' I ' i . ' . I . ' ' I . ' ' i .. i ' ; I I I . J I ' ' ' . ! I I ' ! i I ; I l ' ! f ~· : ! . ! ' . I . ' i : ' ! . ' i l I 86 THE CONCORDIENSIS. -- - - -- - =-==-====================== CLASS ELECTION. S. Oakley Vander Poel says: \Either the National A meeting of the class for the purpose of electing Code of Ethics n1ust be taken at its strict expression, officers, was held in the lecture room on Friday last. l or else it has no binding force. If the right of indi- The meeting was organized with A. C. Steck as chair- · vidual construction is permitted, under any circum- • man and D. J. O'Sullivan as secretary. The usual stances, the concession covers all that the advocates of excitement attending such affairs was not wanting, and the new cede. clailn.\ In an essay entitled \A Plea at the end of two hours and a half the following offi- i for 1.,oleration,\ Dr. Thomas Hun gives a very inter- cers had been elected : esting bit of history, and draws so1ne very nice deduc- Pres., J. H. Davidson; Ist Vice-pres., J. L. Weeks; znd Vice-pres., A. W. Ray; 3rd Vice-pres., R. McMa- hon; Cor. Sec'y., D. J. O'Sullivan; Rec. Sec'y., L. T. Mudge; Treas., E. A. Gifford; Hist., G. M. Boynton; Poet, L. J. Etnerson; Editor, B. C. Sloan; Orator, D. H. Sullivan; Prophet, J. B. Moffett; Marshal, W . Gould ; Executive Comn1ittee, E~ B. Sin1onds, J. A . Colgan, E. Rutherford, H. W. Lane, N. S. En1body. Alba:ny Medical College. , tions therefrom; we qu~te him as follows : ·\ B~t there is, [ according to Dr. Flint, still a disqualifying dause which shonld exclude homoeopathists fro1n consultations, and this is the ' assutnption of a name and organization distinct from and opposed to the regular profession.' There is undoubtedly force in this objection, but if we look back at the history of the rise and growth of homoeopathy in this country, the objection will be weakened if not invalidated. Surely the doctor is old enough to re1nember the persistent efforts made in the beginning by the homoeopathists, when as yet they I T was our fourtune to be present at the meeting of had no organization, to be admitted into our county the State Medical Society when the discussion was medical societies, or in the case of men1bers of the had and vote taken on Dr. Didama's resolution for the societies who adopted hoinoeopathy to resist expul- reinstatement of the old code as the system of 1nedical sion. 1'he nun1erous suits unsuccessfully brought be- ethics. The hot controversy and the determined fore the courts to cotnpel the societies to admit or action of this body of distinguished n1en was truly retain thetn, sufficiently attest that if they now have a quite startling, and as a resultant we find the 1nedical distinct organization the fault is not on their side. We profession of the State of New York divided into two thrust thetn out of doors, and now it con1es with a bad separate and distinct factions. We think that it be- grace fron1 us to give as a reason for refusing fellow- hooves us as tnedical students, as men who will sooner ship with the1n that they are not in our house.\ or later be 1nen1bers of the profession, to somewhat Probably of all the arguments in favor of the old code,. thoroughly acquaint ourselves with the causes of this the following by Dr. Flint is the best: ''If they who schisn1, in order that when we have reached the full thus assutne an attitude of antagonism to the medical fruition of that \sooner or later\ we n1ay, if called profession conscientiously~ hold to the distinctive tenets upon, take a wise and intelligent position with regard which, as they profess, are the ground of their antag- to the matter. Of course we all know that the bone onisn1, how can they consisten~]y desire to meet nlern- of contention is the consultation clause of the old code ; . bers of the latter in consultation, and, with opposing that, concerning the other clauses of this code except views of therapeutics, how could such consultations \ Obligations of patients to their physicians \ and acco1nplish 'the sole object in view,' nan1ely,' the good ''Obligations of the public to physicians \-clauses of the patient?' If, as is asserted, hon1oeopathy has which, if their subjects mean anything, should be ad- practically been abandoned by n1ost of those who dressed to any one save the physician-as Dr. Roosa practice under this name, or so n1odified that the says: \They contain advice that Dr. Percival might 1 n1odes of treatment in cases of disease are not essen- , properly enough have given to his son, or which any : tially different from those of the regular profession, experienced physician tnight properly give to a young \ why retain the separate organization and the name, practitioner, but such essays on good tnanners are : which in1ply to the public a radical therapeutic dis- hardly suited for the the fonnal declaration of scientific i tinction? If the assertion be true, t~1e nan1e and the bodies.\ . organization being retained professional fellowship is Dr. Flint, Sr., says : \ It is a gratuitous reflection on rendered thereby immoral on the ground of compli- the National Code of Ethics to imply that it interdicts city in a fraud upon the public.\ professional services under any circumstances in which W: n1igh~ prod~ce quotati~ns ad infinitum on this they are required by hun 1 anity.\ In reply to this, Dr. very 1nterest1ng top1c had we ttme and space for such

, 5 s 1 THE· C'ONCORDIENSIS. business, but we have not, and, so far as they are con- cerned, will refer the reader to An Ethical Syn1posium, G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York, and to volu1ne XXXVII of the New York Medical yournal. We said, in the beginning of this paper, that the profession of this State is divided into two factions. At the meeting of the State Society, also referred to in this paper, because of the actioh of the society with regard to the code, about seventy-five of its n1e1nbers lE'ft the room-not the society-and formed a new organiza- tion, to be known as the New York State Medical As- soCiation. This action was taken, not only because these men believe· in the old code, but because they feel that the State Society has; by adopting the new code without first consulting the American Medical Association, wronged that body. In other words, with these gentlemen two wrongs 1nake a right. If they retain their n1embership with the New York State Medical Society, and, as the New York State Medical Association, send dtlgates to the An1erican Medical Association, how will those delegates be classified? Will they be admitted at all? It is to be lamented that these gentlemen thought it necessary to take such decided action. If we must part with either, it see1ns to us that in the interests of science we can better spare National than State unity, for, without _?tate unity we certainly have not National unity. adventurers. We have it from excellent authority that among the1n all the New York Medical yournal and the Medical Record hold first rank, but we wish to speak a good word for a little periodical to which our own professors are the chief contributors ; we refer to 7 he Medical Annals, publisr~ed by the Medical So- ciety of Albany county and printed in this city ; it is qnite neat \in its make up,\ and always full of good practical n1atter; we doubt if there is any way by which a graduate n1ay better invest a dollar each year than by sending it to the Annals. 'Those who find it necessary to settle at once, who have not the means or for son1e other good reason can not continue their studies, as we understand some of their n1ore fortunate brothers will do, at so1ne post-graduate school or so- called polyclinic, will undoubtedly find doctors in abundance ; but \they must not be discouraged in well doing.\ \Keep abreast with the tin1es,\ gentle- men, and then if you have zeal and love for your chosen calling, honesty, good . habits, and all these tempered with a courteous and 1nan ly deportment toward all, understanding that you are the servants and not the masters of the public, you will be able to find so·me nook or corner in this broad land where you may obtain at least a living inco1ne and he pennitted to discharge the proper functions of a good and useful citizen of the republic. T HOSE of our students who graduate this year will AS the bill to establ~sh the n1edical faculty of the have n1any in1portant questions to settle on University of the State of New York, etc., etc., entering upon the practice of their profession. Horses, a portion of which was printed in our last, has been carriages, instru1nents, books-all these n1ust be had occupying the 1ninds of 1i:ledical n1en lately, perhaps it sooner or later, and in 1nost instances a wise discrim- , will be as well to make a few facts history. When the ination in selecting will be needed, for there are but classes of '85 and '86, A. M. C., found that injustice few of the present class, nor has there ever been nor would be dealt to them if the bill became a law, n1eet- will there ever be many in any class who will, after ings were called and held, and two con11nittees, con- having spent so much time and money to procure an sisting each of seven, were appointed from the two education, possess much 1neans to invest in articles classes, to see -what could be done. The comtnittees which may be dispensed with. Before n1any other were con1posed of: '85, Annstrong, Marsh, Curran, instruments or appliances, such as the large operating Stillman, Hasbrouck, Geel and Ton1pkins; '86, Cutter, or post n1ortem cases or a quantity of splints, the I Holley, A. P. Van Diense, Whitehorne, Carr, Clyne microscope should be had ; its aid in the diagnosis of 1 and Lloyd, and soon n1et for consultation. A memo- diseases, especially those of the kidney, render it in- ' rial was drawn up and presented, signed by the coin- dispensable to the intelligent would-be physician; mittees, to the chairman of the comtnittee on Public those whose years of practice and stock of self-conceit Health, in whose hands the bill was. The 1nemorial render them co1npetent to get along without it may do spoke to three points, namely: that it was unjust to so, but the young doctor should never pennit himself de1nand fees of candidates in order to pay the ex- to fall into such erroneous ways. Of books there is no penses of an exarnination for the protection of the end; but, after a few standard works on the various \ people; that the examination of candidates by a subjects, the journals, of which there is also a super- I mixed board in Theory and Practic~ of 1nedicine was fluity, should claim consideration from our young 1 unwise and unjust, and that all present medical stu-

,, .. I ,·· :' I'. '! '' ' '. I I I ' ''. ,, ' ! I: II. :: l . ~ l ' j; :I . : ' '' l' . ! ; i i I ' , ' i ' I! ' . ' I i I I ; I ' l ' ) , I . i ' i ' ' I : ' . , I ' . i i ; I 88 THE CONCORDIENSIS. dents having entered into a contract with the various medical colleges, expected after complying with its, the student's, part of the contract,. to receive fron1 the ~ollege a diploma, which, upon registration at the office of any county clerk, will entitle him or her to the right to practice physic and surgery in that county. Wednesday, Jan. 30, in the Assembly Chatnber of the Capitol, a hearing was held before the Con1~nittee on · Public Health, which in itself was of very strange char- acter. Paid lawyers; Doctors Pierce, Gunn, Curtis, Loo1nis, A. Flint, Jr., Moore, VanDerveer, Sturgis and others spoke pro and con the bill. Mr. J. P. Marsh, '85, represented the students of the A. M. C. and brought forth the ideas of the 1nemodal to the com- lnittee in forcible, clear, express,ive English. The hearing adjourned after an afternoon and evening ses- sion. The next day the chairn1an of the comrnittee was 1net by three of the students who, on questioning hitn about the bill, learned that the fees had been re- duced to $25 ; that the vote necessary to pass a can- didate was changed from an unani1nous, to one of seven of the board ; that the patent n1edicine n1en would be allowed to manufacture and sell their con1- n1odities ( ?) as n1erchandise. These students dis- cussed with the gentlemen to some length as to the justice of charging the candidates anything for the exa1nination, and as to the exclusion of present lnedi- cal students frorn it (the exa1nination). Si1nilar dis- cussion W.j.S had tha~ sa1ne day with a men1ber of our faculty, and the next morning, 'on going to the Assein- bly Chamber, it was ascertained that a clause had b~en inserted in Sec. 13 excluding all \1nedical stu- dents who have already 1natriculated in any legally incorporated medical college in this State.\ The action of the State Medical Society in regard to the bill is known by all interested, and it is hoped that another year will see a bill introduced into the Asseln- bly which will be satisfactory to all. We are still of the opinion that to raise the standard of the medical profession, strict entrance exani.inations to rnedical colleges ought to be held all over the land, and although the examination by a State board of all can- didates, degreed or not, will bar out in1proper persons from practising, still the barring should be done at the college doors, and then those that are not fit for the profession will not spend three years of the best part of. their lives in labor which will in the end prove use- less to the1n. college with a fair hope of success. We certainly do not see why such should not be the case ; we sure~y have ability in abundance in our faculty, and a little effort would furnish clinical rnaterial enough to illus- trate the necessary clinical lectures. Such a course would introduce us to rnany in the profession who are comparative strangers to us. now, would tend to bring us n1ore students and clinical 1naterial for our tegular cou1·se and \give crun1bs of comfort\ to many who feel that they can not afford to go to New York or Philadelphia for such a course. FIRST CHAPTER OF SAMUEL, A. D., 18'84. A ND there was in those days a great co~nmotion · a1nong the followers of Esculapius, so 1nuch so that there was a great uprising among them ; and their very distant relations, the Eclectites and the Quackites, were also much disturbed. Now it so happened ·that the very wise 1nen of their country set apart a ti1ne when they would give ear unto the voice of all those tribes, and on that day there was a great gathering of then1 at the te1nple of the wise 1nen, which is in a great and noble city called Albany, which is in the n1idst of their country, on the banks of the river Hud- son. And they came fron1 all parts of the land, ca1ne the followers of Esculapius and their very distant rela- .. tions, the Eclectites and Quackites ; cmne they fron1 the east and fro111 the west, from the north and fro1n the south, even fron1 that great city down by the sea,. called in their tongue New York. Now, when the time had co1ne, the temple of the wise men was quite full of the people of these tribes; even many of the children of the followers 0f Esculapius were gathered there, some of them quite fresh fro1n their mothers' arms, so young were they; these had co1ne that one of their nun1ber n1ight lift up his voice and talk to the wise n1en for them. ··And now, when the time had co1ne, there was making of n1any words in the te1nple, and great eloquence flowed all through the inner chan1ber of it. And the followers of Esculapius said : We co1ne fron1 that great city down by the sea, which, in our tongue, is called N·ew York ; yea, co1ne we hither even fron1 New York, and there is no nine 1nen in this broad country who i~ as wise as one of us; nay, not even nine ! And it cmne to pass th~t their child arose T HERE is a feeling in so1ne quarters that a post- graduate course 1night be introduced into our 1 and said: Gentlen1en of the jury, if this bill be allowed to pass, a 1nother can't put a n1ustard paste to the back of her child ! And the wise 1nen listened with exceeding great patience. Now it had happened that the chief of the Eclectites had, with n1uch flourish

l ) r t e e ,f a e l- e l- 11 l1 te te !d ·s' . er ne en :us lOt >se be to .ed ted ish THE CONCORDIENSIS. 8g of weapons, raised his cry, and it was: Mister Chair- man, we once had a United States Medical College, but where now is it? Any three of the Eclectites are just as good as any three of the followers of Escula,. pius l At this time the great Henion., who is chief of the Ql!lackites in the city where the te1nple .of the wise men is, arose and in a loud voice exdaitned : '\Thank the Lord I 'm a Quack ! ·~\ And the followers of Escul- apitls, their children, the Eclectites and the wise n1en bowed their heads 1n thanks, bowed they their heads in thanks. ANNOUNCEMENT. THE con11nencement and last number of THE CoN- CORDIENSIS containing Albany Medical College news will be issued about the z oth of MaJch. A full description of the cornmencement, with the \valedic- tory addresses \ and \ essay \ will be contained in it. All subscribers and those wishing copies of that num- ber will please give their na1nes and addresses to the medical editors. To the Edz'tor o.f the Concordiensis : the college walls? Finally I would ask the gentlemen if it is in the spirit which he has evinced in his article that he intends to go forth and grasp the \great ques- tions upon which the prosperity of a nation, the hap- piness of individuals, and perhaps life and death depend?'' ONE OF THOSE WHO ,,, ARE COMPELLED TO yIELD TO THEM.'' THE f~llowing were of th~ firn1s which ~xhibited in Agncultural Hall dunng the meeting of the State Medical Society : Wm. P. Warner & Co., represented by Mr. Alfred R. Page. Parke, Davis, & Co., Detroit .and New York, repre- sented by Messrs. Roberts & McWalker. W. H. Shieffelin & Co., represented by IVfr. B. L. Co1nstock. Two medals, London exhibition, '8 1, and Paris, '76. Meyrowitz Bros., New York, branch house at 78 N. Pearl street. (Advertises in this paper) . John Reynolds & Co., represented by Mr. G. W. Lincoln and Mr. T. W. Nellis, of this city. THE article entitled \Advantages of a College Fairchild Bros. & Foster, N. Y., \Extractum Pan- Education,\ which appeared in the January creatis,\ represented by Mr. Fairchild. number of rfHE CoNCORDIENSIS, seems to call for a Thos. J. Atnerde, 1nanufacturing chemists, repre- protest from one who has not enjoyed these ad van- sented by Mr. C. Nemitz. tages. The author of this article is evidently a college McKesson & Robbins, represented by Dr. I. Sceery. student, and in love with his position, and though Messrs. Grosvenor & Richards, 1nanuf. surgical some allowance may be made for the exuberance of goods, represented by Dr. J. C. Angier and J. C. Gros- feeling, as the result of the \chann\ of which he venor, Jr. Novelty adhesive bandage and absorbent speaks, it is hardly sufficient excuse for the sweeping I lint and cotton. I assertions he has made. It is far from my intention , John Wyeth & Bros., Philadelphia, represented by to question the good that 1nay be derived from a col- j Geo. H. Drury. lege education, nor do I doubt the said \chann \ ; Royal Chemical Co., Albany, pepsine, Dr. S. E. but I do say that a college is not the only place where Ullman. a man may prepare himself for the study of a profes- H. C. Lea's, Son & Co., Philadelphia, Mr. H. Da sion. He appears to take it for granted that no one Costa. Medical works. who has not attended a college can by any possible Wm. Wood & Co., N. Y., represented by John S . chance have acquired more than the mere \rudi1nents Dunbar. Encyclopcedia of Surgery, etc., etc. of learning,\ and concludes very prettily from this that any ()Ue so unfortunate is jncapable of acquiring the knowledge requisite to succeed in a profession. He seems to think beyond a doubt that a student of med- icine, for instance, 1nust be totally devoid of knowl- edge upon any subject outside of his profession, unless his n1edical studies have. been prefaced by a college course. Is it not possible that he is a victim of the shortsightedness of which he complains in. others? LOCALS. IT was with great regret one day in January that the boys heard that Scully had broken his leg. But the next morning he turned up at the college, \big as life and twice as natural,\ and it then transpired that the broken-legged Scully was not our Scully, but some other Scully. It's a cold day when Scully gets left. Where is this boasted training in ''many departments When Prof. Tucker announced that he would give of thought\ if it has not enabled him to see beyond I but a \short introductory lecture on the metals for

,, I ,' ~ : , ! I'' ,I ,, ' !> \; ' I· ' ~ ~ I I\ . '!• ' i, ' t ~. l ,, I '·, I ,. ' ! j' :: j q· : it ; :I ! :· ! ! ' t ~ 1 I' '' I i ; I 1 tl I I -I: '' :; ' ' t!' '' I;. I, I' I, THE CONCORDIENSIS. this hoar, Hasbrouck convulsed the boys and Profes- sor by a round of applause on his own hook, and then got very red in the face. The following is handed to us : Mr. T .. continues . his calls on Jay street. But why does he not knock on calling? Because the Ould Ghint is always watching for him. Saturday's surgical clinic, Feb. I, was .quite a notable one, in several ways. The material, which of late has been very good and plenty, was rnore so on that date. The Honorables, Doctors Cartwright and Palmer, of the Assembly and Con1mittee of Public Health, were present. Dr. Hailes' patent cauterizer wouldn't work for a ti1ne, and called forth from Prof. Ward the story of \a little girl, with a little curl, in the 1~iddle of ~er forehead ; and when she was good, she was very good, and when she was bad she was pnzes, which are four in ntnnber. As to who will obtain these prizes there is 1nuch speculation, but in a class where all the metnbers rank alike it is difficult to decide. A banquet at the Delavan House will follow the graduating exercises, which will be attended by the faculty, board of trustees, alu~ni of the college, and the graduating class. THE following bill was introduced in the Assembly on Tuesday, Feb. sth: The New York State . Pharmaceutical Association is to nominate ten pharnra- . cists, frotn which the Governor shall appoint five who · shall constitute the Board of Pharmacy. The bo~rd is to 1neet on the :first 1 uesday of September, I 884, at the Colleg~ of Pharmacy in Albany and organize. Said board shall grant all licenses and shall have power to 1nake necessary rules and regulations. As fractures are now the point of discussion, we THE Alumni of the College of Pharmacy hold their would like to offer a few words of ren:wnstrance and annual 1neeting on the afternoon of con1mence- entreaty. There are quite a nu1nber of doctors in n1ent day at 3 o'clock. The election of officers for Albany and some of them do not have as much prac- the ensuing year and other bUsiness will be transacted. tice as they. would like. But for all that, n1edical All graduates that possibly can are requested to be students do not feel as if they were obliged to help present. horrid.\ them out, but they d~ feel that. Jitn ought to keep ashes or sawdust sprinkled on the marble steps of the LOCALS. college. Tuesday 1norning the 8th, we witnessed one WE, 1 d t th t th 1 · · .J are pease. o announce · a e ru e requlr- (out of 1nany) slip and slide down those steps, strik- · t · t f. t' · b · b . . . . . 1ng a cer a1n a1noun o tme 111 us1ness e- Ing h1s head as he went, w1th the feehng that he would c d t' '11 t b t b f tl · 1ore gra ua 1011 :w1 preven u one me1n er o 1e need surgical assistance. Happily he did not, and if · 1 .c: • • 1 · d · sen1or c ass 1ro1n rece1v1ng 11s egree. Jim, whon1. we all respect and like, will think of the students slippery mornings, broken heads and limbs n1ay be averted. Albany College of Phar1nacy. - \-- - ---- ------- ------------- -~ --------- ------- THE College of Pharmacy closes its third collegiate year on the z6th of this month. T'he year just , past has been n1ost successful in every respect. Both the senior and and junior classes are larger than ever before. The class of '84 will graduate thirteen 111e1~, all of whom will be an honor to their profession. The examinations for both classes will be held on the week beginning Feb. 18. Cotnmencement day will be Feb. 26th. Mr. E. P. Waterbury, President of the State Normal School, will deliver the address to the gradua- ting class. Mr. Frank Richardson will deliver the valedictory, and H. C. Veeder the history. Prof. Vv. G. Tucker, seeretary of the faculty, will deliver the The senior class group taken by Abbott gives eral satisfaction. It is one of the best groups · taken for the college. gen- ever A nu1nber of the students attended the New York State Medical Convention held in Geological Hall last week. The senior class of the New York College of Phar- macy nun1bers I 2 8, and the junior class r 86 students. The St. Louis, Mo., drug clerks are about to fonn an association. 'Vhen you come to think of it, it is not odd that literary n1en prefer a pipe to a cigar. It is handier to sn1o ke when they are writing, and e~er so innch cleaner. And then it gives thetn the true essence and flavor of the tobacco. In Blackwell's Durhan1 Long ~ut, they have a source of solace and inspiration quite unknown when a less dainty and luxurious leaf is used.

