/ .. ' ' ' ) I \ VOL. VIII. UNION COLLEGE, APRIL 25, 1885. NO. 7· PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. --·- ::eo~:c O::E\' :El:CJ:TO~S- J. T. MOREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A. c. EGELSTON, '85, . F. s. RANDALL, '86, H. J. COLE, '86, T. R. WoonsRID~E, ·s6, ·} E. M. CAMERON, 87, G. D. BuEL, -87, AssociA\TE . LITERARY PERSONAL LocAL WILLIAM HUTCHINSON, BUSINESS EDITOR. TERMS, $r.so PER YEAR, IN AovAKCE We desire our jrie11,ds to send tts contributioJts, items of interest and infonnatz'on concerni11g· Alumni. All bttsiness letters should be addressed to the Btt:st'- 1tess Editor. Entered at the Postolfice, Schenectady, N. Y., as seco?td-class matter. PAINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ==================================-- EBITOl\If!L. ~T _the close of _the last term it was de- . c1ded to continue the Senate through J the present term. On account of~he .ill- k ness of Prof. Hawley at the beg1nn1 ng iors a:s a class appreciate them sufficienti:ly to take measures for reorganization as soon as possible .. .OW t_hat ~managing board for the Uni- ~ vers1ty n1ne has been formed, w:e shaH l expect more efficient and judicious management than that with which we · were favored (?) last year. The result of the last season, and a few unpleasant cir- cumstances and reminders which have come about lately, demonstrate the folly of rush- ing into extravagance with no security, as well as the absurdity of allowing the whole business of the nine to be transacted by' one man. Thus far this term nothing has been done to secure funds, and while we have all confidence in the ability of the board to sus- tain the nine, we hope they will not go too far, trusting to subscriptions or gate money to carry them through. New uniforms have been ordered, and a trip will soon be taken. As the money must be raised principally by subscription, we ask the students to give liberally and promptly. It is to be remem- bered that the nine is no\V purely collegiate, and that a report of moneys received is to be rendered at the close o( the season. it is evident we tnust do one of t\VO things : sup- port the nine in good shape, or abandon it altogether ; for no one wishes the experi- ence of the past year to be repeated. of the term no meeting has been called. Now, however, it will he necessary to organ- ize anew if anything is to be accomplished. Perhaps one of the faculty would be wiHi ng to aid as president, or if not, one from the class might be selected. :From the exper:- ence of the past two terms, all must acknowl· edge that we can not be n1ore profitably J:T is to be regretted that the 1\tlinstrel employed, during one hour at least in the . ~ Troupe has ceased to exist. There is week, than in the regular w6rk of the Sen- I little doubt but that an entertain- ate. Of the advantages to be derived it is I ~ ment, which would have paid us well, not necessary to speak. We hope the Sen- I might have been given at Albany and Sara-

I ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. toga ; but, for some unknown reason, the · road, can not have failed to notice how golden opportunity was lost. And in this keenly they appreciated any courtesy ex- connection we wish to explain a little in re- ·tended by the supporters of the various gard to the troupe. Taste at Union does not nines with whom they played. We are glad run to negro perforn1ances or minstrels, but to say that, in general, ·pur stu¢lents are not it was thought that the organization of such . lacking in a hospitable.'and geAerous treat.; a troupe would be the best means for rais- · ment of all who have a claim upon therh fot . . ' ing funds for base-ball and athletics ; and . such treatment. the venture did prove a success. We have · O.ccasionally, however, some one so far to regret that the scheme was not still forgets himself that the wisdom, at least, of further carried out, for while the entertain- his conduct is questionable. If 've will all, ment was neither classical in tone, nor edi- in this respect, reme·mber and obey the old fying to the performers, it was perfectly re- · command, \ do unto others,\ etc., no trouble spectable and honorable, the end in every will be experienced. way justifyiug the means. Amherst will soon own the finest gymna- sium in the world. -ITH the approach of warmer weather, ~ students are apt to neglect the fires in The Harvard '87 crew expended for its ~ their rooms. In consequence of which year's work and play, $3, r60.03. I the occasional chilly_ day, which all Nine of the Presidents of the United J should expect at th1s season of the States were College graduates. year, finds them unprepared. Many, rather The Forest and Strea1n has offered a $100 than go to the trouble of building a fire for cup for an inter-collegiate shooting contest a short time, prefer to endure the discomfort this spring. attendant upon the changed temperature. I The records in the recent games at Prince- This is, to say the least, unwise; as many ton were as follows: Putting the shot, 35 cases of serious, and even fatal illness, have. feet 4 3-4 in. ; pole vault, 9 feet 6 I ~2 in. ; high jump, 5 feet 4 I -2 in. resulted from such neglect and useless ex- posure. Better, by far, take a little extra trouble now. and avoid possible sickness and doctor's bills in the future. ~~ E base ball. season has already opened, ~ and soon we will have the pleasure of I witnessing games between our own and ~ visiting nines. And it is for the pur- pose of calling attention to the treatment due our visitors that this is written. We had occasion last season during the course of the. games to speak upon the same sub- ject, but a suggestion or two will not be out of place now. All who have heard the members of our own nine recount their experiences on the Girl graduates in England wear gowns precisely like those worn by the University mei1,. and made by the same tailor. The only way to tell which from 'tot her is to wait for a mouse.-E:c. Among great Americans who have ex- pended their youthful talents in editing Col- lege papers; are the poets, Holmes and Wil- · lis; the statesmen,. Everett and Evarts; the eloquent divine, Philip Brooks; and the pleasing author, Donald G. Mitchell.-· E.x. t;~Js. The Harvard library contains 184,000 vol- umes; Yale, 1 r s,ooo; Dartmouth, 6o,ooo; Cornell, 53,000; :Brown, 52,000; Coh1n1bia, 5 I,OOO; Princeton, sg,ooo; Michigan, 45,- 000; Notre Da1ne, 20,000 ; Williams, 22,- .. . ooo; Iowa, 8,o6o; Oberlin, 16,ooo; Minne- sota, 1 5,ooo, and Union, zo,ooo. ' '

THE CONCORDIENSIS. !In· IJlec:tion oil fJtnecr6 in the fldelphic: Then we went to bed to dream of the lociet] lhirty .ear6 Bgo. election. ' NUMBER of our faction were in my ~ .•. ·. roo.m talking about the election of of- 1f: fleers for the Adelphic Society, which I was to take place on the morrow. We ~ had worked hard to carry the election. By a general collection the dues of some of our poorer members had been paid, so that they could vote; all of the n1embers who had been teaching school and two who had risen from bP-ds of sickness had returned. The boys had finished summing up the re- sult of their labor. The sides were even. We, however, would lose the election, because some of our men would not stay from their schools longer than a day; while all of the other side could be summoned at any time. The meeting would be held, no officers could be elected, then an adjournment would be made. ~hey knew this as well as \Ve and could afford to wait; for they ,.could elect their candidates at the next meeting. To have my chum elected president of the Adelphic had been my ambition ever since we were freshmen; yet he must now be de- feated. If I could only get one of the other side to change his vote, all would be well. One of the fellows had always been friendly toward me and might be won over; but, if not, perhaps something else n1ight be done with him. If, however, I should speak to my friends, some of them might talk to • :\'!.'! h1m before I could, and thus put him on his guard. So I quietly perfected my plans and listened to their talk. They arose to leave, after coming to the conclusion that we must be defeated, unless some of the opponents staid away. When they had gone, I told chum of my plan. He considered it a good one, or at least the best that could be formed under the circumstances. He was to see that all of our boys were at the rooms a little before five; I was to do the rest. The next day I asked the fe1low on whom I had my designs, and whom I will call Hatch, to take a ride with me into the country. I told him I was going about ten miles to collect a bill for my uncle, and that I would be pleased if he would go with me. He was afraid that we would -not get back in time for the election.; but was quieted by the assurance that we should start at I o'clock. The election was to come off at five. On the way I tried in every way to persuade him to vote for chum, but he refused. He was frank with me, and said that he pre- ferred chum to the other candidate, but that his side had agreed to vote for him for vice- president, and that he wanted the office. I was both surprised and angered by this. When we arrived at our destination, the ~ill was quickly collected and we started for · home. About a mile from the house, two roads united, so as to form the one along which we \Vere driving. We turned into the one which led away from home. I had previously led him into an argument on slavery, the engrossing topic of the day, in order that he might not notice that we vvere on the wrong road. The attempt succeeded. After we had driven about four miles fur-- ther away from home, he .. asked, \Are we on the right road t' I appeared surprised and replied, \I think so \; but looking around for a minute or two, \Things look strange; we will drive on to that farm house and inquire.\ I drove slowly, be- cause every minute counted now. and I wanted to delay as n1uch as possible, without arousing his suspicions. When we carne to the house, he jumped out and went in. The house stood back from the road some distance, so that he was gone several minutes. They told him that we were on the wrong road. He came running out, and said in a re-

. ( (\\ ------- ......... q t I I lj l ' i I lj. ' l] I ! I , ; l ! I ' j I j I • ; ,. ; t ! 1 f l . : t ' t· : I I .I ·. I i l I f : I •'-! ; 1 . I : f. ' I . l . \' . -:· \ J ,. ' THE CONCORDIENStS. proachful tone, that we had lost our way was versed in parlian1entary law; cried out, ,and must turn around. I told him to go \Boys bolt and destroy the qHorum.\ The back and ask how far we were away from president had been told inn11ediately before ho.me, and whether or not there was a . the 1neeting of what had beeli done, and shorter way of returning. He went back, had detern1ined his course of action. \It and came out on a fast run, crying, \We are is a by-law of this society, that any member thirteen miles fron1 hotne. 1~here is no · who leaves the room unexcused shall he shorter way. We'll never get back in time.\ fined at the discretion of the president I Just as he reached the gate, I struck my . shall in1pose a heavy fine upon any such horse with the whip and shouted back at • member. If anyone desires to leave the him, \Good-bye; I don''t believe you \Vill . room, let him state his excuse.\ Our op- get back in time,\ and drove off. ponents saw that they had lost,. and sunk He was thirteen miles from the college at a back in their seats. 'The election proceeded. quarter to four, and the election was to come Chum was elected president My best off at five o'clock. I knew that he would friend, next to chum, had been scarcely de ... try to hire some one to carry him back, but clared to be elected vice-president, when he could not possibly return in time. He Hatch burst into the room. must bargain with the farmer, and all of them in this county like to haggle about the price; then the horse must be harnessed. With good luck he might start by four o'clock. However, I had delayed as long as I dared; for I did not wish to injure my horse by returning in less time than an hour and a quarter. I arrived at the college at five o'clock pre- cisely. Chutn had done his duty, and col- lected all the boys in the society rooms a little before five. In the confusion of so many being in the root11 :tt once, (there were seventy-six of us in all) the absence of my comrade was not noticed. The president, one of our fellows, took the chair promptly at five. \ The society will please come to ord.er. The secretary will call the roll.., When Hatch's name was called there was no response. It was called again ; no re- sponse. The look that came over the faces of our opponents was peculiar. Our men were ast8nish ed ; for I had not told them what I had done ; but they now under- stood that Hatch was absent, knew that the election was ours, and were con seq uen tl y much pleased. One of the opponents, who ' \Oh had I the wings of a dove!\ she' ex- clain1ed. \What dearest, that you tni.ght fly to me?\ he inquired. \No; so that I could fix over my last sumn1er\s bonnet.\ He wilted.-Ez. According to the Colleg£an, the first col- lege paper, was published at Dartmouth in I 8oo. A few years later the Literary Cabi- 1tet appeared at Yale, but did not s~rvive a year. In 1809 The Floriad appeared at Union, surviving about two years. At this tin1e, John Howard Payne, who was a stu- dent at Union, conducted ~The Pastime, which was popular outside the college as well as among the students. The recent criticism made by the Presi- dent after morning prayers upon the lack of a high sensibility of honor in college life~ it must be admitted by all was very wt:ll foun- ded. Undoubtedly, we often hear a great deal of \College honor,\ but the article has a very indefinable meaning, and in emergen- cies is not to be much trusted. In fact we doubt if any one kno\vs just \vhat it means. · If we were obliged to defi·ne it, we should say that dishonesty was only justifiable where it worked no injury to another, but certainly other forms of lying are not offenses against it-Amherst Student.

.• -·-.¥ \ .- THE CO NCORDIENSIS. 73 L:O<!f!L. The first examination for condition~ will be held pn Saturday, lVIay 2nd, in the math- N . C b d \ en1atical room~ Satd exatninations will com- . . . now · oasts a '' octor. mence at 8 A. M. At last the Gar1zet has appeared. The examinations for engineers' finals have Elizabeth is still taking Aumie's place. been posted as follows: Algebra, May 2; The Kappa Alphas are now boarding on Geometry, May 16; Trigonometry, May 30; N ott Terrace. Calculus, June I 7· Prof. Perkins has changed the text-book Noel Gower's lecture in the Chapel was in Chemistry. , not very succes.sful, at least, financially. The A tennis association has been formed and • \Honorarium twenty-five cents\ rather per- courts laid out. plexed everybody, no doubt. Prof. Ashmore has taken Prof. Hawley's Freshman B. translates \ et hu11tidite a class in English literature. . .fin£ par raviver les blesseurs de 1na bonne The Freshmen have finished algebra and . Jambe '': \And the tnoisture has finished commenced solid geometry. . by reviving the wounds of my wooden leg.\ The Sophomores are having Mechanics Dr. David Murray has accepted the invi-- this term under Prof. Chaplin. tation of Union College' to deliver the chan- cellors' address this year. The Rev. Dr. Several students have been out to the Ecob will preach the baccalaureate sermon. \Old Fort'' in search of arbutus-. A gan1e of ball was played between a The armory on State street has been se- nine picked from the Kappa Alpha Society cured for the commencement balL . and one from the Delta Upsilon. It resulted Will some one please explain for the ben- . in favor of the D. U's, with a score of 10 efit of Junior L. the construction of a calci- to I I· mine light? The instruction committee of the trustees We understand that \Vandy\ has been of Union College met on the afternoon of appointed to the position of Superintendent the I 7th to transact business, part of which 9 [ Buildings. was to be the appointment of new instructors for the college. Prof. \ What colored horses drew the char- iot of Xerxes ? \ Frosh. \A sort of re( a )d The Adelphic Society held its election of horse I guess.\ officers for the current term April I 8: They are as follows : Allen, '86, president ; I .. an,.; Prof. Lamoroux has returned from Denver, don, '86, · vice-president ; Redfield, '87, Col., whither he was called on account of the secretary ; Phillips, '87, librarian. death of a relative. Preparations are being made to have The plug hat parade was a very tame affair \Field Day\ on the campus. A track of this year, as the Sophomores took no part, one eighth of a mile has been laid out, and w.hatever, in the ~xercise. with the exception of a bicycle track, every- Since spring has shown itself the Fresh- thing will be as favorable as the Fair men look anxiously over the Terrace to see grounds. if the cows are in the pasture. The following programme for \Field - The S. C. bell seems to be rather irregu- Day,'' May 8th, is announced : One bun- lar, frequently sounding its matutinal warn- dred yard~ dash ; I mile run ; slow bicycle ing after the \big whistle\ blows. race, roo yards; pole vault ; throwing base ball ; running broad jump; half mile run ;, During the recent warm weather the Prof. running high jump, 120 yards hurdle; po- of Latin was seen one afternoon walking tato race; three-legged race; consolation down street carrying his trousers on his arm. race. Entries will be closed May 6th.

~ I I t - ,. 74 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Landon and Heatly will probably enter· The registrar has returned from Washing-. the field-day conte~t at Geneva. · ton, and once more we ·see her genial coun- tenance in the office. First hoodlum, a.t ball gatne :: '' Which class is in nuw ?'' Second h. : \ Dun.no.\ Here is what a Junior or Senior of forty (t( Eli\ goes to batamid cries of '85). First. years ago inflicted on a most able and ex ... h.: \Oh I see; '85, that means they've cellent instructor, who courteously inquired been here one yea.r, so they're Freshmen.\ . what it w;:ts with which Archimedes proposed to move the world. Looking up to the ceil- College exercises were postponed on the · ing for ingpirat'ion and then down to the 7th inst .. , through respect to Prof. Pearson, · fl ~ d' f h 1 1 whose wife was b·uried on the afternoon of oor. or stea Iness 0 purpose, ·. e res.o ute Y launched Ol1t into the deep, as he replied : that day. Profess(irrs Staley, Foster, Perkins, ,, A pulley, sir.'' Whitehorne, Wells:,. and Lieut. Hubbell, Jr., were pali -bearers. The Psi Upsilon Association of Buffalo held its annual·banquet in that city on Tues- At the game of ball between '86 and '85, day night, the Zist inst. Among the mern- a little boy, who was looking on, was quite bers of the association at Buffalo the gradu- severely injured by being strucl{ in the face · ates from Union are E. B. Vedder, Dr. c. by a bat that acoidentally slipped. This w Harvey, Dr. Leon F. Harvey and George ought to be a warning to the ''kids'' who w. Bonney. At the business meeting after persist in crowding around the batter. · the banquet Dr. Leon F. Harvey was elected The following ar·e the subjects for essays president. this term. Juniors. : \ The Origin and De- The lectures given by Judge Landon are velopment of an .1\..verage American River- very much enjoyed. The subject, The His- side Town.\ SOJ?homores: \ Benefits and tory. of the United States Constitution, is Evils of the Dormitory System in Colleges.\ one in which the J udg~ is deeply interested, Freshmen: \Will.ter as Developing Na- and upon which he has spent considerable tional and Individ-ual Character.\ study during several years past. Several of The barn whichstood back of Mrs. Nott's the Faculty are regular in their attendance, residence was destroyed by fire on the eve- and we wish it could be so arranged that all ning of the 1 Ith inst. The fire department students so desiring might attend as well. was on hand, but was powerless to do any thing toward extinguishing it, as both hy- The first Hop- on- the- Hill after Lent, drants were frozen_ The barn belonged to which took place April Ioth, was as much - the college. The loss was between $ 500 and enjoy-ed as ever. Although the gentlemen $Boo ; there was n.o insurance. . were in the majority, yet all expressed thetn- selves highly pleased. Besides students, The Seniors fbis term will recite ethics five times per week to Dr. Darling ; his- tory of civilization, three times, to Prof. White horne ; architecture, twice, to Prof. Stal~y ;· political economy, three tin1es, to Prof. Perkins ; and will listen to lectures twice a week on United States constitution by Judge Landon. The following are the appointments for the \Varsity:\ W. Landon, pitcher; W. F. La- Mont,catcher; Robert Earle, I st base; M. H. Begley, 2nd base; C. B. McMurray, short stop. R. Furman, 3d base; G. S. Dorwin, left field ; F. F. E'lessing, centre field ; E. J. Perkins, right field. LaMont and Earle will, when the occasion warrants, exchange places. there were present H. V. N. Phillip, '84, of New York ; F. G. Jewett, of Williams Col- lege; F. W. Cameron, '81, and C. Temple- ton, '84, of Albany; W. H. Veeder, '86, and Mr. Fitzgerald, of Schenectady. A few days since the Seniors were desired each to bring a list of the ten novels from which he had derived the greatest pleasure. Over one hundred natnes were given in all. Some of the natnes contained in the great- est number of lists are as follows: \Ivanhoe I 6 ; \ David Copperfield,\ 1 5 ; \ Last Days of Pompeii,\ r2; \Vanity Fait,\ 9; \Dan- . 1 n d \ · ,, n· b & s \ 6 · 1e eron a, 7 , . om ey on, . , \Vicar of Wakefield,' \Tale of Two Cities,'' and \Rienzi each 5·

THE c·oNC'ORDIENSIS. 75 tithletie~. Following is the schedule of games to be . played by the State Intercollegiate league : • At Schenectady } with . Union College. At Clinton 1· with 1-Iamilton College. At Hochester 1· with Rochester University. · At Syracuse }· .. with Syracuse Univer:sity. At ~ft~eva }·· . Hobart College. At Ithaca } with Cornell. · r Cornell, May 15. Rochester, May 22. .:{ Han~i~ton, June 6. I Hobart, June 9· l Syracuse, June 15. r Syracuse, May I3· I Cornell, May r6. 1 Union, 1\'Iay 20. Rochester, Ma.y 23. Hobart, June 8. r Hobart, l\1ay 9· I Syracuse, June 12. ~ Harnilton, June 19. I Union, May 26. l Cornell, May 20. · Rochester, May 15. Hobart, June 13. . Cornell, May ·r9. Union, May 25. Hamilton, June 20. I Cor•nell, May 14. Syracuse, May 16. Union, May 27. Rochester, June 6. L Ha1nilton, June ~7. I Rochester, May 21. 1 Syracuse, May 23. ~ Hobart, May 25. I Union, May 29 L Hamilton, June 16. YATES CUP CONTEST. '85. '85. { , 86 . {. April 20. . May6. '86. April 20. May6. '87, April 24. May rr. April 27. May 13. , 8 {April 24. April '1-7· 7· May 11. May 13. , 88 {April 29. April 22. April 17. · May 15 May 8. May 4· '88. April 29. May r_s. April 22. MayS. April 27. May4. retary at least two weeks before the n1eet- ing. Prizes to the amount of -$225 will be awarded. For the 1 oo-yards dash, 440- yards dash, I2o .. yards hurdle race, 220-yards dash, mile walk, half. mile run, and bicycle · race, first and ·second priz;es, consisting· of gold medals valued at $10 and $5 each, will be awarded. For the pole vault, putting the shot, throw- . ing the han1mer, and the four jumps, first and second prizes of $8 and $5 will be given. In addition a silver cup valued at $2 5 will . be awarded to the college winning tpe most contests. It is expected .that most of the colleges intending to participate will hold their field days the week previous and send th,eir win~ing men. / flbituarg. 'vi/~ (Again it is our painful duty to chronicle ,the death of an honored member of our faculty. Twice within the present collegiate . year· have we been shocked by the news of the death of a professor. Of the departure The above is the schedule of games, the first of which was played April 20, between '85 and '86; '86 was victorious. .of Prof. Price we were expecting to hear, as he had been lingering on the verge of the grave for several months. But who, to have looked upon the vigorou_s frame of Prof. Hawley, the ideal of apparent health and strength, would have dreamed that he was so soon to fall? p·rof. Hawley had not long been among us, but by his Christian char- acter, his faithfulness tv his duty, and devo- tion to the interests of the students, had won for himself many warm friends. For some time he had been troubled with rheu- matism, and was for a few days confined to his room. Since Prof. Hawley has been with us, he has taken great interest in musical matters, and it is owing to him ·that our orchestra is in its unusually excellent con- dition. It is due to him also that the choir: has been revived; the hymn books in use in the morning exercises, as well as the use of the piano, being his gifts. Of rof. Haw- ley's former li~, we spoke at len th in our INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS. The first field day of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association will take place at Gen- eva May 30. The change to this date from May 22 was made in order to a1luw such colleges as might desire, to send delegates to the field-day exercises of the Eastern Col ... lege Association, which will be held in New York May 23. The annual dues from each college belong- ing to the association will be five dollars. Each contestant will be obliged to pay fifty cents for every contest entered, and must give notification .of his intention to the sec- October issue. · occurred in Al- bany, April 2 3· is remains were accom7 panied by Profs. Ashn1ore and Perkins to Potsdam, his native place, where amidst the scenPs of his early life, he was laid in his last resting place.

I . THE CON·CORDIENSlS. RESOLUTIONS OF RESP,.ECT. ·. and August Rtb, I 845, he was also chosen At a :meeting of the students held in the · pastor of the church at Kealiakekua. This extended his field of labor from that of chapel, April 24, the following preamble and • Missionary Thurston' on the north to that of resolutions were adopted: Titus Coan on the southwest. In the spring WHEREAS, God in his goodness h.as seen · of 1848 he was stricken down (as he wrote: fit to remove by death our beloved instruct- • to a friend) \in consequence of over-eftort. or, Giles P. Hawley; be it of the brain, from which I n.ever recovered.\ Resolvecl, That \vhile we bow in submis- In I 849 and 1850 he made extc.nsive mis- sion to the Divine will, we are sensible of sionary tours through the Islands. He then, the loss of a conscientious and painstaking . in still in1paired health, returned to New instructor. England, and has since resided mostly at Resolvecl, That we extend our sympathy · Cornwall, Conn. He married Miss Mary A. to his ber,eaved relatives, and that w·e re- . Brainard,. of HaddanJ, Conn., a relati_ve of con1mend them to look for comfort to that the missionary, David Brainard. 1-f e leaves One in. whom o ,Jr departed friend so implic- several children, one of \vhom is the Rev. J, itly trusted. B. D. Ives, residing in Kansas. Resolvetl,, That the chapel be draped with . the properemblems of mourning. Resolvecl, That these resolutions be pub- lished in the Concordiensz's, the Schenectady and Potsdam papers, and that a copy be sent to the relat:ives of the deceased. S. B. COFFIN' ]. T. MPREY, w. P. L-ANDON, w. B. WILLIAMS, W. B. TEN EvcK, Committee. Mrs. Pearson, the beloved wife of Prof. Jonathan :Pearson, after a long and severe . illness~. died April 4th, '85, at the age of 6g. Mrs. Pearson was endowed with a bright in- tellect and the qualities of a true wcrman ; a zealous and earnest Christian worker, she was of an exceedingly modest and ·retiring disposition. Rev. Mark Ives died in Danbury, Conn., March 21st '85. The burial was at Corn· wall, Conn., March 23rd. Mr. Ives was born at Goshen, Conn., February 10th, I 809; graduated at Union in 1833 ; studied at Andover 'Theological ·Seminary two years, and graduated at the Theological Institute of Connecticut (Hartford Theological Seni- inary) in 1836 ; was ordained in Sharon, Conn., in Septem her, 1836; received an ap- pointment as missionary of the American Board for the Sandwich Islands ; taught there from the spring of 1837 till the sum- mer of I 845, when a church having been formed at ,Kealia, he was chosen its pastor, There are twenty graduates of Harvard on the New York .._)un staff. Cornell is having a magnetic observatory erected. There are at present 563 students .· in the university. Of the six professors in the Harvard di- vinity school, three are Unitarians, two Bap- tists ~and one Orthodox Congregationalist. There are ·thirty-two general, sixteen local · and seven ladies' fraternities in the United States, 'distributed through over 175 col1eges. Yale students use a hymn book compiled by_ several members o( the faculty. 'The college has sixty-nine base balls won from various clubs. 'fhe morning~ prayers cost Harva~d $5 ,ooo annually. Out of the class of 250 -freshmen, rg6 take tatin, 163 Greek, 141 Mathematics, and 83 taking all, three of these branches. One hundred and thirty-:five thousand dol- lars of the two hundred thousand dollars re- quired for the construction of a woman·s university at Baltimore, has been subscribed. Students at Princeton have regular instruc- tion in singing, given by an eminent New York musician. l'he nine will play ten games with professional clubs before the championship season opens. The six fastest an1ateur runners in Amer- ica at one-quarter mile are L. E. Myers, time · 48 3-5 seconds ; H. S. Brooks, 50 r -5 seconds ~ ]. A. Hodges, 5 I seconds; Wendell Goo-d~­ win, Jr., 51 1-5 seconds; J. L. Jenkins, 51 1-2 seconds; and T. Murphy, 52 1~2_seconds. /

\ TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. 77 - PEl\~Oj{.fiL. '85. Stanton is working on the New York World. , '49. J. L. Pearce is seriously ill at his '85. ·McCauley is catching on the Buffalo home at Adamsville, N. Y. He is the j nine this season. pastor .of the Reforrned church of that · '8s. Mills, who has been ill with typhoid place. fever, has rejoined his class. ~< '8t'. :Vood is an at.torney and counselor- '8 s. Bond has taken charge of the school at-law In New York ctty. at Lisha's Kill in a short tin1 e . . '82. I.Jyon is attending the Albany Law '86. Harris has left college. SchooL '82. Greene is attending the Theological Seminary, Hartfon1 , '8~. At a n1eeting of the presbytery ofWest- chester, held in Peekskill, N. Y., Mr. E. W. Greene, of the Hartford Theological Semin · ary, was on 1\'uesday evening ordained to the ministry. The moderator, the Rev. H. R. Schenck, of Mahopao Falls, proposed the constitutional questions and offered the ordaining prayer.- The Rev. J. Aspinwall Hodge, D. D., of Hartford, gave hin1 the charge. Mr. Greene is soon to go as a mis- sionary to Utah.-Hartford Courant. '83. Dent is teaching school at Water- ville, N. Y. '84. Fairgrieve is on the U. S. man-of- war Trenton, stationed at Hong Kong, · China. '8 t. Allison, Kitts and Phillips paid a short visit to the hill shortly after Easter / vacation. '84. The marriage of C. H. Hill to Miss Mills, of Fo~da, occurred at t~e bride's h?me on the evening of the 8th{ The spac1ous mansion was thronged witH friends, who were handsomely entertained After the ceren1ony, supper was served, and the rest of the night was occupied in dancing. Among the presents was a bronze vase, presented by the Delta Phi Society, of which the groom was a member. F. W. Cameron, '8 I, was best man, and the groo1nsmen were Frank Burton, '83; F. M. Severson, '85 ; F. W. Ray, '85; C. B. McMurray, '87, and Henry McQueen, of Schenectady. Besides these, old Union was represented by C W. Stryker, '85; F. X. Ransdel, '87; E. M. Cameron, '87; E. P. Towne, '88.) '85. Brann spent part of his vacation here. '86. Courtwright has taken a short respite from his college duties, but will return next term. '87. Ashton has left college for the re- mainder of the term. '87. Escourt has left college and is study- ing (?) law in son1e office down town. '87. DeForest is very sick with gastric fever at his home in DeFreestville, N Y. '88. Sweeney is in (assville, N. Y. '88. DeLong and Cummings have the measles. I. Gifts to American coil eges from twenty n1en amount to more than $23,ooo,ooo. Stephen Girard, Johns Hopkins and .. A.sa Packer gave between them $I 4,ooo,ooo. Henry F. Durant contributed $1 ,ooo,ooo to Wellesley College. T'he post-office department, in the case appealed- by the An1herst students, has ruled that no students, unless brothers, shall be allowed to use the same post office box, on the ground that they -are not a family, firm or corporation, Prof. George I-'- Raymond, of Princeton, has completed a poen1, having for its sub- ject an old poet, who dying, leaves manu- script poetns written by hin1self when a student, at different periods of his life; de .. scripti ve of a student's life at the various periods. A num her of students at the Medical School invited a prominent homceopathist to lecture to them on homo:opathy, which in- vitation was accepted. The Faculty of the Medical School refused to allow a homa!o• pathist to lecture. there, and it had to be given elsewhere. '

.- ·~ '.+ ,. '• > l ! THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Acta Columb£a1ta shows conimendable , enterprise in getting out an Easter number. \Jii.1HE Haverfordian, for March lst, con- .. • The only thing the Notre Dam~ Scholastic C?J G • d d' 01 tains some very goo.· rea 1ng, amongst ; has in common with other college papers is ·l· which is an articl.e on \Coasting. Like . an exchange column. The Sclzola.stic seems •• ourselves, however, they appear at · more like an independent literary magazine, 'G' times to be hard up for poetry. .. or a church organ, .. than a college paper; and Nat withstanding the rath~r decided oppo- for that reason it seen~s hardly just for it to sition of President Seeley, the Amherst ·• make some of the criticisms it does. The Student still holds its own among our leading . sam:e propriety with which the Scholastic exchanges. The Student n1ight do a little • calls the poetry of sorrJe of the best eastern better in the line of prose literature, how- Journals \ moonshiny rhymes,'' would allow ever. us tO' dub the poetry of the Scholastic as cast-iron verse, or indi,gestible effusion. We The Dickinsonia1t is still correcting mis- takes about the number of Dickinson men in · are well aware of the wrath this n 1 ay bring upon our heads, for the Scholastic is notori- , Congress. Now, wouldn't it be too bad, · ous for its ability to \ sit _on \ too critical after all the pains they've taken, if sonie papers. And in performance of this duty it naughty college paper·would again announce · has shown itself not entirely free from the that Dickinson has only jive representatives : you . tickle- me -and- I'll -.tickle-you spirit, in Congress! when it smiles benignly on a paper which The Dartmouth, although containing ex- · conlpliments it, and bestows a look of pity cellent literary matter, is an unsightly paper and contempt on another rash enough to both inside and out. The Men1oranda criticize. Alumnorum is a very good department, and we wonder where they get all their material for it. Maine University after being closed twenty The \three patient little editors\ of the : years will reopen soon.-Ex. ·Lehigh Burr exhibit a good deal of backbone Cornell, Michigan and Virginia Universi- and no mean literary ability. We wonder if . ties have adopted the principle of voluntary chapel at ten dance. the board of editors is never more than three, or if there are vacancies to be filled? The fact that \Ve are well pl_eased with the last Williams Argo, makes us regret more keenly that it is the last number of that worthy paper we shall receive. As a The total nutnber oT students attending the collegiate department of colleges in the . United States is 32,000. ~ Annie M. Woodson, of Cambridge, gives in her ·will $zo,ooo to the Chandler Scientific . Department of Dartmoi1th College. punctual, interesting, well edited, and well Two graduates of the Institute of 1\'ech- filled paper, the .Argo holds fl. place in our nology won the second prize, $3000, for de..,. estimation rivaled only by its cotHemporary, : signs for the new Boston public library· ·~ the Athe 11 ceu 1 n. That the new venture will Nineteen candidates for the Columbia prove a success, we deem it safe to predict, College crew are in training. The average age is twenty; average weight, I 50; aver- and we shall look as eagerly in the future for age height, five feet nine and a half inches . . the Lit. and Fortnight as we have in the· The freshn1an class has twenty-three candi- past for the Argo and Athenceum. dates in training for the class crew. . ·

