I' ' \ . ft . •· - • • (l No.2.: li I I I 1995. ,. • I I I . ! I 1 • • ' ' ; .. , ') J . ) . , , .,. ; CONTENTS '. ,;-i\ • - . ' PAGE. l'AGR. '\' ' EDITORIAL: l . '' LITERARy : '1 . Comm urticated Articles, 13 To Union, - . - - I7 I - - - - - - - II Base Ball Fund,. - - . - . . 13 A Queer Experience, - - ·- - - I7 I I Senate, - - - .. - - - I3 What My Lover Said - - - - - 17 j ' Chapel Decorum, - - - - - IJ Turn and Return, - - - - - 18 - ~ l Removal of the College, It Cannot Be, ~ - - - - 14 - . - - - - - 20 Literary Societies, - . - - - 14 Dr. Taylor Lewis, - - - - - 20 . ,. CoMMUNICATioNs : LocAL, - - - - - - - - 21 PERSONALS, - .. - - - - 2J Base Ball, - - - - - - 14 GENERAL CoLLEGE NEws, - - - - 24 ' Condition of the Colleges, I5 CLIPPINGS, 24 - -· - - - - - - - - - Exchanges, - - - - .. - 16 MARRIED, - . - - - - .. 24 ·, .. ! l' i.

~~:r 17 Di~D ~ ;~ . l!!!!!!]v ... l UNION COLLE,GE) SCHENECTADY\ N.Y. HoN. JunsoN ·~.LANE oN, President ad inte1·im. :r. CLASSICA.L CouRsE.- T 1 he Classical Course is the t:lstial baccalaureate course of American colleges. Students may he permitted tG pursue additional studies in either·ofthe other courses. · . 2. SciENTIFIC Cou~RSE.-ln the Scientific Course the modern languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount.of mathematical and English studies ,is increased. . , ~. ScHOOL OF CIVIL ~ENGINEEJHNG.- The student in this departlnent enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of instruction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulations of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and .also in unusual facilities for ac- quiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4· EcLEC1lLC CouRSE.-An Eclectic Cou~rse, consisting ofstudies selected at .pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon exalllination, is found qualified to pursue it On the completion of this a ~certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytic Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For r.atalogues or for special infortnati0n address CADY STALEY, DEAN: OF THE F~cuLT¥, ScHENECTAJJY, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY :rifBDICAL CoLLEGE.- Term commences first Tuesday in September and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction co:rt1bines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study. of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. ExPIJ:NSEs.-Matriculation fee, $s; term fee, $roo; perpetual ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25: dissecting fee, $5.: fee for laboratory course, $·ro; histological! course, $m. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., REGISTI<AR, ALBANY 7 N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHOOL.- The course of instruction consists of three terms: the first commencing Septembers., the second November ~s, and the third March 6; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as ca.n be found any- where. The I.aw Library of the State is open to students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and aH the terms of the Court of A·p:peals. Tuition, $so,each term, in advance; $I30 for full year, in advance. For information address PROF. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D .. ALBANY, N\. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This departillent of the University is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and .Meteorology. For information address PRoF. LEWIS BOSS, ALBANY, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMA~CY. ALBANY, N. ¥.-For information apply to PROF. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D. W. & L .. E. GURLEY, NOTMAN @o., TROY, N.Y. 48 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANr. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roller Drawing Paper, Engineers' REDUCED RATES TO STUDENTS. and Surveyors' Transits, etc., etc. ~College Views a1zd Faculty Pictures kept z'Jz Stock.

T'I IE CCYNCOitDIENSIS. -----·----~-- ---·---- -------------~----- ----- A GOOD PRINTER IS KNOWN BY HIS WORK. ~ ~·~ ~L~ w_ 3'__.___, : ~: ' 7~)<, I - I, .i --~ ... . . - ......... . ' . . , J~ L ~1- rfJJ • ·. _,. \ 0 6 ? ARTISTIC PRINTER. ... '~ · rh '! '( ..... \, . :>l~)., ~- 'I ~ tl.{/ )r.. • • ... 'J. :~ • . . . \ ' ,..;': '\.... ~-. •• l ~, ~~ 4S.LIB-ERTY STR~~~~~.G;') SC::S:E~:::ECTA::DY., N. Y- ---~ -------- --------- ' t ' • , ~ • • •• -. -, \\.\': DENTIST~ OFFICE .\;-;D RE~II>E~C:E: 1\ro. +7 State· Stn:ct, Sclzcll£'C!cu~1', .L'V. Y. - . i A NDR~~\V :\IclVfULLE:J, DE.\I.ER I'\ Kind lin <r \\'oo(l ::-.... H u 'l I_~~~ IZ' s OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY \\:\D Fl:\E }1():\BO:\~. 1\ro. 35 1\ro rt lz 1 >t·cr r! .'->'! r(ct. ..·1! (Jtr Jl)'. ..~. \ T. 1 T. (Late with Gl'R'SEV of ~ew York,) SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. FOBT:E!..A.ITS. 15 and 17 f\/urtlz !)carl Strr ct, Alb£rnJ', }l. V. ~----- --·-·- TEN'fH_ _REGIMEN~ 11ILIT-lt\RY B.A.NJ) l~ ()RCHESTR.A_. ESTA!il~!SJIEJ> I.V 1S5S. Tlu· Finest J!us£cal Organi:.;cdit'1l in tlzc State, comfc'St'tf oztinly ~-us:r:c Fc'r ( 'c'l!t·ge ( 'cl11tJit t' Jl( l'J1h'll f.,·' c,l!lCL' rts' R t't't'f!lt 1 1!S' Jl·,·ddiltgs. Se r· otad,·s, Hct!ls, !'arad,·s, c'r ll'll)' t>,·casic>Jl 'lt.dlt're tile st'r- -:•ictSt2f First-cltrss Jlu.dt'lcli/S arc recJUired . • \ddn·ss. JOH); L. (i.\RTL.\:\D, Leader~ DirL·ctor, HEADt~l'.\1\TERS AN!l <lFF!L'E. j 5(1.; li'chvay, .f. Do,Jrs ,.Yortlz t:/ .Lllaic!ell JjaJil', A!!J(ll!)'· t. r ; . ! .. , 'i,'

THE CONCO,RDIENSIS ... ~ . . - ~~ A GOOD PRJN'TEH IS KNOWN BY HIS WORI<. ARTISTIC PRI:NTER • •• • ,I o• 4-6 LIBERTY STREET, @) F D_EF. GRAY, ·-------- DENTIST, OFFICE AND RESIDENCE : No~ 47 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A_ NDREW McMULLEN, DEALER IN .. ., Coal and Wood, Kindling Wood AND FIRE KINDLINGS, 92 and 94 Uttion re 8, 9 and IO .Dock St., Schenectacly. HUYLER'S OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CiNDY. AND FINE BONBONS, No. 35 North Pearl Street, Alba1zy. J?. V. (Branch of 863 Broadway, New York.) B. DelCLYN, ':Jr., Manager. (Late -with GURNEY of New York,) SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. 15 and I7 Nortk Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. TENTH REGIMENT .MILITARY B.AND & ORCHESTRA. ESTABLISHED IN r858. The Finest Mtest~al Org-anization in. tke State, composed entt'relJI qf Professional Musi'cians of acknowledged ab-ility. For College Commm.ce11tents, Concerts, Receptions, Wetlding-.s, Ser- enades, Balls, Parades, or a1ty oc~asi'on wkere the ser- viCes clj First-class Musicians are required. Address, JQHN L. GARTLAND, Leader & Director, 1IEADQUARTERS AND OFFICE, 504 B'dway, f Doors North of Mat'den Lane, Albany.

THE CONCOROIENSIS. BROKAW MFG. co., NEWBURG, N.Y. \R E L I A B l E'' No. 14. No. H. C. ASK RETAILERS FOR THEJY.I:. BARNEY & BERRY'S Roller Skate for Racing & Fancy Skating. SrzEs, 8, 8~, 9, 9~, ro, Io_%, II, II~ INCHES. Pfice, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Wheels, - $9 oo Price, Polished & Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals & Wheels, 12 oo Price, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels, Frames, Foot Plates and Clamps Engraved, and Name of purchaser engraved on Frames, :rs oo All rolling parts of the above weeels and journals are of steel, case hardened. each truck consisting of 36 rolls, h.! inch in diameter, making a total of 144 rolls to a set. Testimonials as to the speed and durability of this Bearing have been received from the leading skaters. PoRT jERVIS, N.Y., June 27th, t88s. BARNEY & BERRY, Springfield, Mass. GENTLEMEN:-The new skates with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels received; find them the fastest I have had yet. I can say your skates are superior to all others, having given them a good trial m long and short races. They are the lightest in weight, fastest in speed, and more durable than all others, WM. M. BoRsT, Six day Roller Skater. RoLLER SKATING RECORD.-First Six Days' Race, 1045 miles. Sec- Qnd Six Days' Race, 1148 miles. (C'. E. WENDELL & CO. PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC. RULL STOCK AT LOWEST PRICES I 8g AND 91 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N.Y. A_. M. POWERS, li>HOTJ.10GF{APHIG f.I~TJ.1IST!l, 265 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. TH IS p· A·· PJ!.Ris on :fileinPbiladelpbla . 1 ~ ,at the Newspaper Adver- __ , tifling Agency of Messrs. N. W. A 'V E R & SON, our ~.: uthorized a.gents. I l l 'i f l

I l l 'i f l I VOL. IX,. UNION COLLEGE, . OVEMBER 25, 1885. NO.2. T'HE CONCORDIENSI. PUBLISHED MONTHLY B~ THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. :SOAED OF' ED:ITOES. F. s. RANDALL, '86, EDITOR-IN-CI-IIEF. E. S. C. HARRts,. '86, } AssocrAT~ T. R. WooDBRIDGE, '86, · 1_ F. X. RANSDELL, '87, LITERARf c. F. BRIDGE, '87, PERSONA> H. c. M .. .ANDE;ILLE, '88,} F. D. LEWIS, 88, LocA J. H. HANSON, '89, I. P.· JoHNSON, '87, BusiNESS EDITOR. TERMS, $r.so PER Yu:AR, IN AuvANoE. We desire our frz'ends to send us co1ztributiolls, iteuzs of t1derest a1zd inf.onnati01z concenzinJr Abt1nni. All bztsi1zess letters should be addressed to the Busl- 1tess Editor, Box 96o, Schetzectady, N. r. E?ttered at the Posto.(jice, Schenectady, N. Y., us seco?td-c!ass matter. PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. EDIT·ORIAL. W E call attention to cb1nmunicatecl articles on. base ball and the condition of the college. They are of interest to every.student, and being written by 1nen outside of the editorial board, show .that they are i1nportant. A s .it is understood that we are to have a ~all n1ne, and are to send 1nen to the colleg1ate contest, is it not a good plan to devise son1e 1neans to raise funds before the end of the terrn ? The entertainrnent given last year, successful as it was, would have been a greater success had we gone to work earlier in the winter. While we have not the 1naterial to produce an entertain- tnent like last year's, there are still 1nany ways to xaise the sa1ne funds. Let a college 1neeting be calleq and the 1nost feasible plans discussed. (f ONTRARY to general expectation a great \.:> deal of interest has been developed in the Senate by the Seniors, and there is little cause for con1plaint. Yet we think that if a little tin1e should be en1ployecl -QUtsicle of the Senate by each 1nen1 ber in studying parlia1nentary prac- tice, and n1ore especially the .college senate rules, a good deal of needless confusion would be avoided and a greater a1nount of progress 1nacle during the 1neetings. We would also recon1n1end that 1nore tilne be devoted to dis- cussing the ,1nore itnportant n1easures than is now the case. With a little effort on the part) of the 1ne1nbers there is no reason why the Sen- ' ate shoukf not be both enjoyable and profitable. N ow that we are to have orations in chapel for the rest of the year, a few words on the subjeCt wiU not be out of place. .l\s it is, with- out doubt, a beneficial exercise, and as it has been settled that we are to have orations, it re- mains for the Seniors to enter into the work with so1ne spirit, and to tnake the Friday Inoi·n- ing exercises a success. Often as attention has been called to the fact that not one student in ten exhibits respeCt for chapel exercises, or for the one who officiates, no efiort is 1nade on the part of the students to present a 1nore respectful and attentive appearance. This does not see1n to be a vexy flagrant breach of good 1nanners until the student is called upon to address the in- teresting (if not interested) audience, to which he hi1nself belonged a motnent ago, and then one glance is sufficient to show hitn what a dis- graceful view we have of chapel decortun. All that we can do is to ask the students in general to re1ne1nber that chapel is not a place for study, and that respect for the place, for vvhoever offi- ciates and for the orators, de1nancls at least an approxi1nation to silence and attention,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. A . GREAT deal of space in the newspapers has been devoted recently to considering the question of the retnoval of the college to Albany. We have every reason for believing that this is only mere talk, yet if anyone seriously enter- tains the idea, they will see the impraCticability of such a ,movetnent by carefully considering !he . obJeCtions. Dr. Murray says: \There is one · objection which, perhaps, may seem sentitnental, and yet is quite real, and that is that the attach- · ment nattnally felt toward the college by its alutnni would be in a measure destroyed as soon as the associations were swept away by a change · of sites. In a tneasure the college would have We think that if a series of public debates be- tween the two societies was inaugurated, calcu- lated to show the benefit of their work, the in- terest would be awakened and the societies would soon regain their fonner prominent posi- tion. At least it will do no hann to tnake the trial. COMMUNICATIONS. Base Ball. Walking down town recently behind some under-classtnen I overheard the following re- to take root anew.'' The statetnent tnight have marks : been made n1uch stronger, for in the event of ' F.-· \Who's going to he base-ball director such removal there would be left only a few this year ?\ members of the faculty to remind the alumni of S.-'' Don't need one unless we have a better an institution which they knew and loved as nine than last season., and 1 for one can't ~ee \Old Union.\ In fact, a removal would be ·. where or how we are going to get any good nothing less than the fall of '' Union\ and the players.\ founding of an entirely new college. It was rather a bitter remark to catch, and W ITH little hope of success we make the an- nual appeal in behalf of our literary socie- · ties. The present condition of these societies reflects discredit on our college and on the char- acter of the students. In other institutions the · literary societies are one of the most important teatures of college life, and we venture to affirm that every graduate who actively participated in the work of our own Adelphic and Philomethean would declare that the experience in speaking, ability to think on one's feet, and abundance of useful knowledge gained by work in these socie- ties are of as much real benefit to them as any- thing acquired during the college course. Nev- ertheless, with all the advantages to be derived, with good halls and libraries, our societies are almost a complete failure owing to the stnall metnbership and lack of attendance by those who are members. We appeal to the students to retnedy this evil and restore \ 0 ld Union\ to her former high position in this respeCt. Let the members, at least, tnake a determined effort to revive the interest, if not for the benefit to be received, for their own honor and reputation. perhaps the adage that \listeners never hear any good of thetnselves\ was true. However, noth- ing is in vain, and that retnark was good food for thought. Thought No. I.-It is settled who is to be our ball direCtor. And it is due to the senior class to say that for once they laid aside factional feeling and elected a 1nan who is interested in the nine, and who many tirnes has shown his interest in athletics at Union, and who, we hope and believe, will tnake a good direCtor. Thought No. 2.-\ Have a better nine than last year.\ I had a ready solution for this, but one which does not rest with the director, nor captain, nor any individual player, but with all the nine and with the support of all the students, backed by the hearty support and approval of the faculty. Now, can this be accomplished? I think it can. I think every one will agree with me in saying that, as freshtnen, Union en- ters as good players as any college in the State league, with perhaps the exception of Cornell, which is a much larger institution. Also that we have arnple means to develop players if we would. Why can't we; or, rather, why don't we. ' I ! I ~ j. r i ,. \

' I ! I ~ j. r i THE CONCORDlE'NSIS. do it?, In the season of '8z the nine, with Ana- . prov-ided we should win a game please don't say ble and McCauley, made a great reputation for we beat---but they beat. And, if we do go under, Union· in the ball arena-but an honest one. remember you helped do it, and when you grad- In '8 3 the nine could not bear to drop below uate see if you can't get an appointment as sue- . d' · '' p d \ at a cessor to Lieut. Greeley and search for the north the previous n1ne, an 1n came · en ~ · . · great expense. In '8 4 the dishonest v~cton:es · pole~ where you will find plenty of cold water to b 1 · \U · \ the throw on othe~r's schemes. CAPTAIN· were followed up y p ac1ng n1on on , . breasts of two more professionals, and thus in- • curring an additional debt which was left for the · association to struggle with, and which greatly bin- . der·ed the fonnation of last year's nine. Last year public senti1nent-perhaps it vvas lack of money '· -. caused a nine to be formed of legiti1nate play- ers, men who had never played together before, and most of who1n had done no \ gytn\ work al~ · V\Tinter. After the first two gatnes, which were in faCt: terrible exhibitions of our national gatne, sentiment, aided perhaps by rnalice and tnean- ness, was so strong that it was with difficulty any nine at all was placed in the field. Even then one-fourth of the expenses were borne by the players thernselves. What was the result? It was not good. It might have been worse. We had a show for second place had the last gatne been played. We stood third. We also detnonstrated the fact that the nine could be run without leaving a debt for this year. N O\V there is only one way in which we can solve the last part of S.'s query of how we are going to get . any good players, and that is expressed in the sn1all word-work. We have the raw n,?-aterial. Shall we develope it? Yes. E1nphatically yes. Look at what Cornell did by work. Their nine was in as deplot·able a state as was ours. They worked. We didn't. They took first place. We didn't. We have a good gyn1nasiun1 and an excepti9nally good 111an iiJ. charge. Let the 1nen who are put in the \gyn1\ try to see :yvhat they can do. There will soon be a goodly nurn- ber who will be put there to do allotted work, not simply to report at the dressing roo1n and lazily smoke a cigarette Let your college spirit out, if you have any, and try to bootn the ball interest of \Old Union.\ If you haven't any college spirit keep still. Stay away, any- where you please ; don't throw cold water on ·so1neone else. Don't cotne near the gatnes, and The Condition of the College. • U NI.ON has begun the present year n1ore ~a­ vorably than for several years past. A dis- position to 1nake the best of everything prevails throughout the college. Although the present fresbrnan class is small, most of its members come from our immediate vicinity, where the true state of the college is known. To an out- sider, obtaining his knowledge only from the newspapers, the troubles which divided the Faculty and President would seem necessarily to have interfeted with instruCtion. In fact, however, if the newspapers had not fanned the spark of discord into a flame, the students would never have been heated through partisanship; and the dissension would have been quieted without their knowledge of its existence. As it was, the work of the college moved steadily on without any apparent friCtion. The professors tnay have disagreed with one another' but they did not allow this to affeCt their relations toward the students. Now all are united. We have no President, it is true, but that officer is not a necessity to the educational part of the college. He would, however, quiet the tninds of people ignorant on the subject ; and for this reason it is to he hoped that we will soon have a head to our institution. Tl1e instruction did, however, have one seri- '\. ous drawback ; our corps of professors was too small. Through death we had lost two of them, and last co1nmencetnent we were in- forrned of the resignation from the fflculty of a third who1n we all loved. Altogether it loo:ked blue for the prospeCts of this year. To fill t11ese vacancies three new professors have been chosen, and a fourth has been 1nade through pr()motion. Out of the four it would naturally 1

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. be expected that at least one would not be coin- erly attended to, take tnuch of our titne. But petent. But fortunately for Union the trustees . those students who plead lack of titne as an ex- were particularly happy in their selecrtions. cuse from the attendance to the duty of tnaking The chair of English has been only partially our organizations a success are the very tnen filled for tnany years. The professors who at- .· who waste 1nost titne. He who accuses the tended to that deparhnent had so 1nany other trustees and alumni of negleCt of the college is duties, that through neglect, it becatne weak. . generally the one who fails to n1ake his particular Now we have a professor who gives to that part of the college a .success. The hard worker, branch, not only all of his titne, but also abilities who bends his best energies toward the accotn- of a high order, and love for his work. This plishment of an object, even though he fail, yet departn1ent only began, as it were, this year, benefits the college; but he who cavils at every and therefore the indications for the future are scheme calculated to brin.g credit upon the stu- very protnistng. dents, but who, when it is a success, appropri- , Prof. Wright was called to take the chair of ates the credit to hitnself, acts as a wet blanket one of the ablest professors, and, perhaps, the upon the ardor of every son loving his ahna- tnost popular of the college. That he fills his ·mater. place is sufficiently great praise. During this year, however, the students seen1 The studies of the Senior year are expeCted to feel that they can 1nake their enterprises sue- to stir up in the student his reasoning powers cessful, if they will only try. We tnust under- and to furnish hi1n with food for thought for fu- stand that we are in a s1nall college, and that it ture years. God created Prof. Hoffrnan espec- is therefore necessary to concentrate our energies ially for this purpose. \ upon those lines in which we are most likely to There is no need to 1nention the work done in prosper. Aiding the professors by good recita- the other deparbnents. We know its rnerits. tions in the class-roo1n, aided by their advice in Yet, because of the increase in the numbers of our own concerns, and working to carry out our tl1e faculty, all of the professors have 111ore thne plans, let us do what we can toward tnaking the to devote to their special branches, and their college strong. instruction has., therefore, itnproved. They are, of course, the satne n1.en, but they now can con- fine themselves to their own specialties. While there may be one or two professors who cannot pound learning into a student, yet, frotn all of our instructors, a student hungering for knowl- edge can be filled. · A college is co1n posed of professors and stu- dents. Our professors are co1npetent to instruct us, and they take an active interest in us outside of the class-roo1n. Last year, when the expen- ditures of the ball nine exceeded the receipts, the professors tnade up the deficit; and this year they are taking an active interest in our prayer meetings, and through God's help will make then1 a success. To any of our organizations they are willing to devote their tin1e, n1oney and brains. In the past we students have not always been as willing to do as rnuch for our college. Our studies are reasonably difficult, and, if prop- EXCH'ANGES. The Nassau Lit. cotnes for the first titne to our table, and in adding it to our list we feel not only pleased but honored. Ftotn our previous \ ideas of college literary tnagazines we expected to find the pages as dry as-well, the ll£adz'so1z- ensis for instance, but the well written sketches, stories and ''Voices\ of the Nassau Lit. are anything but dry. In justice to ~'A Word to College Critics,\ we n1ust say that our judgtnent of the literary work of college n1en is tnaterially aided by the able article. · It is a faCt that we expeCt too rnuch fro1n the average writer; that, having in tnind the plots, descriptions and de- lineations of pron1inent writers, we adopt these writers as our standard and require college men to place then1selves in the ranks of noted writers with their first attetnpt. The Nassa'tt L,/t. is an ably edited n1agazine. I f • ' ' ·~·· ' .. ' l . ' .. t \ - \

I f • ' ' ·~·· ' .. . ~ i ~· l i l . ' I I \ - \ THE CONCORDIENSIS. To \Union.'' F AIR dost thou sit, oh, mother! on thy hill, . Arched overhead by Heaven's stainless blue; Swept by the wind, wooed by the Sltlnmer breeze, And to thy ancient promise ever true. Then press around her, boys! close, loving, warm; Though broad her acres and her woodlands be, Naught can gi-ve strength and vigor to her soul Like the assurance of you.r loyalty. A. A. LITERARY. A Queer Experience. For so1ne reason or other I didn't feel easy . that evening. The clock's tick was unusually · harsh and rasping, the wind had a mournful whine as it swept around the corner of the building, every sound in the hall 1nade me start frorn my chair, and the very ahnosphere of the roon1 seetned to he penneated with so1nething of a decidedly 1nysterious nature. I had been reading all the ~vening about curious phe- nomena of the mind, and when I detennined to go to bed I was prepared to see strange sights · of all sorts. Why didn't Bob cotne up? He had gone down town after supper intending to get the tnail and then to cotne right up on the hill. Bob was 1ny roo1n-1nate and was seldo1n absent from the rootn in the evening. Here it was half-past eleven and he had not cotne. Feeling that he would cotne soon I went to bed . ' but in no easy state of n1ind, as I have already indicated. I must have fallen asleep itnlnedi- ately, and although Bob did not wake n1e when he came in, son1ething did wake tne later on, and just what that so1nething was, for a n1inute · or two I could not tell. The first sensation I had on waking was one of extretne fright. I felt sotne one lying across tny breast, apparently holding tne down with one hand and bathing tny head with the other. I tnade a slight strug- gle to release tnyself, and in so doing discov- ered that whoever it vvas holding me down he was disrobed like tnyself, Then, like a flash, it came over tne that it was Bob himself. All this time he kept on vviping tny head with the wet cloth, and when I asked him in a voice strangely unlike my own what the matter was he stopped for an instant, but did not answer. A moment later he drew himself away from me and rolled over. By his deep breathing I knew him to be asleep. You can, or rather can't, im- agine my :feelings after passing such an evening, and then waking up to such unusual circum- stances. It is not to be wondered at that I slept no tnore that night. The next morning Bob, while dressing, looked up with a stnile and said : ''I had a queer dreatn last night about you and tne, old man; mighty queer drearn. I thought you and I had a fight and that I hit you on the head with a club, knocked you senseless and cut a fearful gash in your forehead. Great Cresar's ghost how that cut did bleed ! I was afraid that I had killed you and began to bathe your head with n1y handkerchief. You wouldn't hold still, and that cut kept on bleeding. Somehow you got away fron1 tne, and that's the last I remember of it. When I woke up I felt as if I had com- lnitted a crime.\ How Bob did laugh when I told my part of the story and shovved him the wet towel that he had used. How it is that I didn't yell and wake him up I can't see. Bob never has performed in his sleep since then, and I for one hope he · never will. --------------- What My Lover Said. HOMER GREENE, '76. T HE following poe1n was published ano~y­ rnously son1e years ago, and quite a discus_ sion arose as to who was its author. It was at one time credited to Horace Greeley : By the merest chance, in the twilight gloorn, In the orchard path he met me; In the tall wet grass with its faint perfume, And I tried to pass but he made no room, Oh, I tried,-but he would not let me. So I stood and blushed till the grass grew red With my face bent down above it; While he took my hand as he whispering said- How the clover lifted each pink, sweet head To listen to all that my lover said; Oh, the clover in bloom,-how I love it!

il 'l'HE CONCORDIENSIS. In the high wet grass went the path to hide; And the low wet leaves hung over; But I could not pass on either side, For I found myself when l vainly tried In the arms of my steadfast lover. And he held me there and he raised my head, While he closed the path before me: And he looked down into my eyes and said-\ How the leaves bent down from the boughs overhead To listed to aU that my lover said, Oh, the leaves hanging Jowly o'er me! Had he moved aside but a little way I could surely then have passed him; And he knew I never could wish to stay, And would not have heard what he had to say Could I only aside have cast him. It was almost dark and the moments sped, And the searching night wind found us, But he drew me nearer and softly said- How the pure sweet wind grew still instead To listen to all that my lover said, Oh, the whispering wind around us! I am sure he knew when he held me fast That I must be all unwilling, For I tried to go and wotiild have p:a.ssed, As the night was come with its dews at last, And the sky with its stars was filling; But he clasped me close when I would have fled, And he tnade me hear his story, And his soul came out from his lips and said- How the stars crept out when the white tnoon led To listen to all that tny lover said, Oh, the moon and stars in glory! I know that the grass and the leaves will not tell; And I'm sure that the wind, precious rover, Will carry his secret so safely and well That no being shall ever discover One word of the many that rapidly fell From the eager lips of my lover; And the moon and the stars that look over Shall never reveal what a fairy-like spell They wove round about us that night in the dell, In the path through the dew-laden clover; Nor echo the whispers that made my heart swell As they fell from the lips of my lover. Turn and Return. It was near the close of a raw, stonny day, •. and as I sat gazing steadily at the fire I couldn't help feeling a little homesick. The sound of someone cotning up the stairway broke the depressing silence, and I began to wonder who it was. Slowly the steps ascended the stair\vay., and a mo1nent later I heard a tin1id knock at my , back door. At my bidding to enter, a strange . figure ca1ne in, and advancing toward the fire, . asked for so1nething to eat and pennission to warm himself. So1nething in the man's face and manner appealed to 1ny sympathy, and bid- ding him sit down I proceeded to grant his re- quest. Now, as a usual thing, I don't keep eatables in tny roo1n, but it happened that a well- filled box had arrived fro1n home that tnorning, and it was fro1n this that I was to feed my strange guest. Fro1n the way he devoured cold turkey, biscuits and 1nince pie it was evident that the 1nan had fasted, and by the time he had finished, my pity had so increased that I gave him and old overcoat and a pair of shoes which, though cast off, weTe an improvetnent on those he had on. He thanked me brokenly and de- parted. . ' Partly from force of habit and partly in hope of receiving so1ne 1nail I hurried down town that night through the sleet and snow and in the face of a cold, raw wind. As I neared the Grand street crossing I heard a freight train ap- proaching. Quickening 1ny steps ,I took the chance and risk of getting across in preference to the certainty of having to vvait five or ten 1ninutes in the cold, for the train to pass. It was a time-saving but foolish custon1. we had of run- ning across ahead of 1noving trains, and little apprehensive of danger, I hurried on. It seetns that the track-hands had been raising the road- bed that day, and being unable to finish the work had left out the ordinary planking between the rails. Just as I reached the track, over which flashed the headlight of the on-co1ning How loneson1.e it seemed with the fellows all gone home! It was Thanksgiving day, and as the vacation allowed us was short I had decided not to go home but to stay and do a little back work. train, tny foot tripped and I fell with stunning force between the rails. When I recovered consciousness I found my- self lying on a couch in Dr. Ellwood's office with the doCtor bending over 1ne bathing 1ny

. ' ' ' '' THE CONCORDIENSI~ year ago ! The picture was a good one-, the best I had taken. I tnounted one, labeled it ''My Hero,\ dated it and placed it with tny colleCtion. Returning that evening frotn 1ny photographic tour, I learned frotn the papers the details of a ~murder that day in Northville, a s1nall village forehead. It see1ns I had fallen in such a way that my forehead came in contact with the far- ther rail, rendering me senseless and leav~ing a short, jagged ~ut. The doCtor told me that an unknown man had, at his own risk, dTagged rne. from the track just before the heavy train rolled by. Upon asking to see my preserver I was told that he had gone, and that when it was sug- gested to him by the bystanders that it n'light be to his. advantage to wait till I \came to,\ he said that I had done him a good turn that day and that he had no more than returned it. Itntn,e- diately I thought of tny strange visitor and con- gratulated 1nyself upon having done a charitabie deed at so opportune a tirne. I saw nothing tnore of tny hero till about a year later. It was 1ny Junior year, and having a little spare time I had taken up atnateur pho- tography. I had succeeded quite well in taking views of the surrounding country, and at the time ()[which I atn writing, was engaged in tak- ing instantaneous views. . about ten 1niles to the east. George Kilmer, sta- ble-boy of the only hotel Northville sported, had been fatally stabbed in the breast, about noon. He had been found dead in the barn about one o'clock, and as he had eaten dinner at twelve it was certain that the tnurder had been committed during the hour. Who was the 1nurderer was a matter of conjeCture, but suspicion settled on one John Rankin, who was at that tirne rnissing. It was known that he and Kilmer had had a dispute that morning, ending in blows, but nothing had been seen of Rankin later in the It was Thanksgiving again. The day had dawn.ed bright and clear, and having no invita- tion for dinner, I shouldered tny camera and started out for the country. Noon found 1ne · about a tnile outside the city on a road frotn · which could be obtained a fine view of the valley and the range of hills opposite. Noticing a man, with the appearance of a tratnp, co1ning down the road, I detennined to get an instanta- neous view of him as he passed. Accordingly I placed the catne:ca near the fence on the side of the road opposite the path and focused it on a tree just in front of which the path ran. Every- thing was ready, and leaning on the fence I a p- ... peared to be taking in the view of the valley · regaTdless of the presence of anyone. At any rate the man just gl.anced at 1ne curiously for an instant and then looked steadily at the ground as he tra1nped on. Just as he passed between me and the tree I exposed the plate. So occupied had I been in carrying out tny scherne that I did not look at the man closely, but on printing from the negative next day I recognized in the picture a face which I have reason to remetnber. It was the man who had saved my life just a day. Sotne ti1ne in January Rankin was and the trial catne off a month later. · little interested in the trial I entered captured, Feeling a the court. room one day near the close of the trial. The evidence, which was 1nostly circtunstan- tial, was decidedly against the prisoner.. A strong feeling of hatred had been shown to exist between Kiltner and Ran.kin and the fact that they had had a fight that tnorning, and that Rankin had got the worst of it, was dead against him. He had failed to prove an alibi, and the case was about to go to the jury. Just as the judge was to deliver the charge, the prisoner turned half around in his chair, and turning his eyes on the crowd of speCtators seerned looking in vain for a friendly face. Until now I had not seen the prisoner's face, and as his eyes met tnine there see1ned son1ething strangely farniliar in his rough, despairing countenance. Sud- denly it all flashed over rne. He was \My Hero.\ The recognition was tnutual, and an instant later the n1an was on his feet and cried, as he pointed to tne : '' There is the n1.an who can prove 1ne innocent. For God's sake, sir, save an innocent tnan.\ Tableau!

I I I :. \ 20 THE CONCORbiENSlS. The judge paused in his charge, the now ex- which we find 1~ore correCtly expressed in the cited speCtators were hushed to silence,. while Greek, in Hesiod's ''Works and Days,\ 709. before them all, with his finget~s pointed at my '' The first is the noisy vox populi; the second white and frightened face, stood the altnost con- is the stiU, yet powerful vox hutnanilatls.\ vicred tnan in his one last attetnpt to prove his Sorne of these tnanuscript notes ·were the innocence ! . foundation of articles contributed to leading To tnake a long story short my testitnony was · Reviews, or etnbodied in his various writings; called for, the tnan given a new trial and ac- . but tnany of them have never seen the light out- quitted. You see 1ny own testitTlony, along '. side the library where he spent so n1any years with the piCture I had taken of hitn, the time in profound study of the subjects so near his the picture was taken and the distance it ptoved : heart. the man to be fro1n the scene of the murder at In the Easy Chair of Harp.er' s Monthly for the very hour it was comtnitted, alltnade up the Novetnber there is a flattering notice of Dr. chain of evidence which proved the alibi. • Alexander's address in m·etnory of Dr. Lewis, It was an accidental return for a heroic act, but delivered by him in 1882 before the New York a happy one. The poor wretch thanked 1ne . Alpha of the Phi Beta Kappa society at Union. with tears in his eyes and hurried away. Since In this notice the writer quotes fron1 Dr. Alex- then I have never seen hitn, but I have cause ander, as follows: ''Dr. Lewis believed in to think that he will retnetnber the incidents I . progress, believed that sotne things are settled have related as long as your htnnble servant, as the basis of progress. * * * Never would and he, I assure you, will never forget the1n. he assent to the adage, ' .Vox popull, vox L)ei.' It Cannot Be. l T cannot be. When you and I Were happy in the days gone by, I .seemed to love you as I ought, Your face was with me, and I sought Your own sweet self and company. 0 titne! 0 years that swiftly fly I How could ye break the tender tie? I 1 ;Ve to learn that thou hast taught It cannot be. Forget the past. Forget and try To help tne say the last good- bye; If love like yours were sold or bought, Had not our love-dream come to naught, I should be spared the bitter cry It cannot be. Dr. Taylor Lewis. Among the tnany manuscript notes, both · Classical and Biblical. which ·were found in the . portfolios and scrap books of Dr. Taylor Lewis after his death, is the following: '' VOX POPULI, VOX DEI.\ \This fan1ous Latin proverb, as it has been . called, is but the echo of a n1uch older saying . The vox popull is fickle, discordant, atnbigu- ous ; he was listening reverently for the 'still, sad tnusic of hutnanity.' Underneath the con- fused echoes of the vox populi he heard that · deep, stable, majestic note, vox populorum. He V\ras content to be at variance with the spirit of •. the age, while conscious that he was in harmony with the spirit of the ages.\ The writer in the Easy Chair also adds: \ Pxofessor Lewis was a ' Grecian' of great ac- co1nplislunent., a firm believer in the classical curriculum in college, and a tnan who held that a scholar tnust not cease to be an aCtive citizen. ·* * * * He was a religiou~ tnan, a tnan of profound faith in God, and doubtless he would have reverently acknowledged that one with God is a n1ajority. He was also an Atnerican patriot, and if his pupils had asked hi1n, How is one with God a 1najority? he would have answered, ~'Because the truth that one sees, all \vill at last receive ; and it is not because the tnajority is necessarily wise~ but because the tnultitude is capable of willing loyalty to tl1e wise, that popular governtnent is good govern- • tnent.\ Dr. Lewis had charge of the Editor's Table of .1-Iarper's Jl([ag·azine for five years, during which period many striking articles fro1n his pen appeared upon its pages. ..

~. ~ . ' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 LOCAL. How is your arn1? What becatne of field-day? EleCtric lights at the Blue Gate. Prof. Lamoreaux has a class in Italian consist- ing of seniors. South college is filled with lights now and everyone is polling. The library is now open fro1n 2 o'clock to 4 o'clock every afternoon. North college has a new chatnbennaid who rejoices in the cognotnen, Christina. Lieut. Hubbell has abolished freshtnen Thurs- day drill (or the remainder of the tenn. G Several of the freshtnen's autobiographies failed o bring a six-spot through lack of subjeCt tnat- er. Why are tnen who are absent from the chapel exercises allowed to corne in afterwards and in- terrupt the orations? Professor Wells has favored his classes with a leCture on the troubles in Bulgaria. All were delighted with the infonnation itnparted. The historical society has chosen rooms in south college, north seCtion, first floor, in the old college office. They are being fitted up to receive the curiosities and relics. ''I wonder why Charlie don't con1e,\ she said. The reason-Because his washwotnan won't let him have his shirts until his other little bill is p~id and his roo1n-1nate's trunk is locked. Sophotnore to Freshtnan.-\ I tnust infonn you with all perspicuity that it is a cogent necessity for you to \ Frightened Fresh.-'' I will get the water, sir.\ interesting works are included in its four thou- sand volun1es. The sophotnores tneet in the chapel every Monday afternoon in order to listen to the differ- ent divisions in declatnation. Prof. Truax gives his criticistn before the entire class, and good work is the result. he class nine of '88 cotnpleted its round of - victories by defeating the nine of '87 by the fol- lowing score : '88--16 · 2 ' I I 0--20. '87-- 3 0 8 I 2-I4· Great progress is being made by all classes in their several studies, the sophon1ores having nearly completed their tenn's work in rnathe- matics and rhetoric. Tl1e freshmen are nearly through the tenn's algebra. On Saturday, 14th, the college Y. M. C. A. held a conference in Professor Hoflinan's rootn with her sister association at the Troy Polytech- nic. Among those present frotn the Polytechnic were Sikes, '86, Selden, '86, Reider, '87. Maybe the seniors didn't \lay\ for Professor Hoffman in the last exatnination in Psychology! The nun1erous 9.8's, 9·9's and ten-spots testify to this fact. The Professor felt pleased over it, but he wasn't any tnore tickled than the fellows were. Freshman to Carhnan.-\ l-Iow tnnch wil you charge to take these things on the hill?\ Carttnan.-\ Fifty cents.\ Fresh.-\ I'll carry that broom and chain up. Will that tnake it any less?\ Cartrnan retires in disgust. Freshtnan to Professor (displaying a list of credentials frotn his Sunday school teacher, pas- tor, &c.)-'' Have I the honor of addressing Pro- fessor W. ?\ A freshtnan the other day accosted a senior . Professor (waving his hand desperately)- '' Stand back ! Stand back ! \ with, ''How are you getting along in algebra?\ ( Sophomore scientific polling Rhetoric.-\ I wonder who this 'Ibid' is that is referred to so often.\ The library of the Philotnathean Literary So- ciety has lately been re-arranged and is at pres- ent being newly catalogued. Many antique and ' Professor.-'' Now, Mr. V., is the fact that 1nan can fonn a general notion of all that has existed or can exist a proof of tnental strength or weakness?\ Mr. V., bracing up and trying to appear thoughtful, \1..- es, sir, I think he can.\ And then he couldn't see for the life of hin1 vvhy the fellows laughed so.

20 THE CONCORbiENS1S. The judge paused in his charge, the now ex- cited spectators were hushed to silence, while before them all, with his fingers pointed at rny white and frightened face, stood the altnost con- victed nian in his one last attetn pt to prove his innocence! To tnake a long story short tny testitn,ony was called for, the tnan given a new trial and ac- quitted. You see tny own testirnony, along with the piCture I had taken of hitn, the tin1e the picture was taken and the distance it proved the man to be frotn the scene of the rnurder at the very hour it was cotntTlitted, all rnade up the chain of evidence which proved the alibi. It was an accidental return for a heroic act, but a happy one. The poor wretch thanked rne with tears in his eyes and hurried away. Since then I have never seen hitn, but I have cause to think that he will retne111ber the incidents I have related as long as your hutnble servant, and he, I assure you, will never forget thetn. It Cannot Be. i T cannot be. When you and I Were happy in the days gone by, I seemed to love you as I ought, Your face was with me, and I sought Your own sweet self and company. 0 time! 0 years that swiftly fly! 1 low could ye break the tender tie ? I l.ve to learn that thou hast taught It cannot be. Forget the past. Forget and try To help me say the last good- bye; If love like yours were sold or bought, Had not our love-dream come to naught, I should be spared the bitter cry It cannot be. Dr. Taylor Lewis. Atnong the rnany rnanttscript notes, both Classical and Biblical. which ·were found in the portfolios and scrap books of Dr. Taylor Lewis after his death, is the following: ''VOX POPULI, VOX DEI.\ \This fan1ous Latin proverb, as it has been called, is but the echo of a n1uch older saying which we find n:ore correCtly expressed in the Greek, in Hesiod'.s ''Works and Days,\ 709. ''The first is the noisy 'VOX popull; the second is the still, yet powerful vox humanltatis.\ SotDe of these tnanuscript notes ·were the foundation of articles .contributed to leading Reviews, or embodied in his various writings; but many of then1 have never seen the light out- side the library where he spent so many years in profound study of the subjeCts so near his heart. In the Easy Chair of Harper's Monthly for Novetnber theTe is a flattering notice of Dr. Alexander's address in memory of Dr. Lewis, delivered by hitn in I 882 before the New York Alpha of the Phi Beta Kappa society at Union. In this notice the wTiter quotes fro1n Dr. Alex- ander, as follows : \'Dr. Lewis believed in progress, believed that sotne things are settled as the basis of progress. * * * Never would he assent to the adage, \ Vox populi, vox L)el.' The vox populz' is fickle, discordant, ambigu- ous; he was listening reverently for the 'still, sad 1nusic of humanity.' Underneath the con- fused echoes of the vox populi he heard that deep, stable, mwjestic note, vox populoru1n. He vvas content to be at variance with the spirit of the age, while conscious that he was in hannony with the spirit of the ages.\ The writer in the Easy Chair also adds : '' Professor Lewis was a 'Grecian' of great ac- cotnplishtnent, a finn believer in the classical curriculun1 in college, and a tnan who held that a scholar tnust not cease to be an aCtive citizen. * * * * He was a Teligiou? tnan, a n1an of profound faith in Go(l, and doubtless he would have reverently acknowledged that one with God is a n1ajority. He was also an Atnerican patriot, and if his pupils had asked hirn, How is one with God a tnajoTity? he would have answered, ~'Because the truth that one sees, all vvill at last receive; and it is not because the tnajority is necessarily wise, but because the rnultitude is capable of willing loyalty to the wise, that popt1Lar governn1ent is good govern- tnent.\ Dr. Lewis had charge of the Editor's Table of Fiarper' s Mag-azi'ne for five years, during which period tnany striking articles fro1n his pen appeared upon its pages. .. •. ·~ .. I ) . I

•. ·~ I ) . THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 LOCAL. interesting works are included in its four thou- sand volun1:es. How is your ann? The sophotnores n1·eet in the chapel every What becatne of field-day? Monday afternoon in order to listen to the differ- EleCtric lights at.the Blue Gate. ent divisions in declamation. Prof. Truax gives P1·of. Lamoreaux has a class in Italian consist- · his criticistn before the entire class, and good ing of seniors. South college is filled with lights now and everyone is polling. The library is now open frotn 2 o'clock to 4 · o'clock every afternoon. North colleg-e has a new chatnbermaid who rejoices in the cognomen, Christina. Lieut. Hubbell has abolished freshtnen Thurs- day drill (or the remainder of the tenn .. G Several of the freslnnen's autobiographies failed o bring a six-spot through lack of subjeCt mat- er. Why are tnen who are absent frotn the chapel exercises allowed to cotne in afterwards and in- terrupt the orations? Professor Wells has favored his classes with a lecture on the troubles in Bulgaria. All were delighted with the infonnation itnparted. The historical society has chosen rooms in south college, north seCtion, first floor, in the · old college office. They are being fitted up to receive the curiosities and relics. ''I wonder why Charlie don't cotne,\ she said. The reason~Because his washwotnan won't let him have his shirts until his other little bill is p~id and his rootn-tnate' s trunk is locked. Sophotnore to Freshtnan.-\ I tnust infonn you with all perspicuity that it is a cogent necessity for you to \ Frightened Fresh.-'' I will get the water, sir.u A freshtnan the other day accosted a senior with, \How are you getting along in algebra?\ ( Sophotnot·e scientific polling Rhetoric.-\ I\ wonder who this 'Ibid' is that is referred to so often.\ The library of the Philotnathean Literary So- ciety has lately been re-arranged and is at pres- ent being newly catalogued. Many antique and • work is the result. he class nine of '88 completed its round of - viCtories by defeating the nine of '87 by the fol- lowing score : '88-r6 · 2 · r r o-zo. '87- 3 0 8 I 2-14. Great progress is being tnade by all classes in their several studies, the sophon1ores having nearly completed their tenn's work in tnathe- matics and rhetoric. The freshtnen are nearly through the tenn's algebra. On Saturday, 14th, the college Y. M. C. A. held a conference in Professor Hofli:nan's rootn with her sister association at the Troy Polytech- nic. Atnong those present fro1n the Polytechnic were Sikes, '86, Selden, '86, Reider, '87. . Maybe the seniors didn't ''lay\ f~r Professor Hoffn1an in the last exatnination in Psychology ! The nun1.erous 9.8's, 9·9's and ten-spots testify to this fact. The Professor felt pleased over it, but he wasn't any tnore tickled than the fellows were. Freshtnan to Cartrnan.-'' How tnnch wil you charge to take these things on the hill?\ Cartman.-\ Fifty cents.\ Fresh.-'' I'll carry that broom and chain up. Will that tnake it any less?\ Carhnan retires in disgust. Freshtnan to Professor (displaying a list of credentials frotn his Sunday school teacher, pas- tor, &c.)-'' Have I the honor of addressing Pro- fessor W. ?\ Professor (waving his hand desperate! y )- '' Stand back ! Stand back ! \ Professor.-\ Now, Mr. V., is the fact that tnan can fonn a general notion of all that has existed or can exist a proof of tnental strength or weakness?\ Mr. V., bracing up and trying to appear thoughtful, •' 1:.,. es, sir, I think he can.\ And then he couldn't see for the life of hin1 vvhy the fellows laughed so.

~,: ,, A \;~ :;1 22 THE CONCO&DIENSIS. ------------ ·-- --------- _____ ____{;__ __ ------------------------ ' J:.;,,f The delegates to the Inter-collegiate Y ... M. C._/ The Union College Senate tneet weekly in A. association were Gulick, '87, and Yates, '88.1 Prof. Truax's roon1. The President pro tempore The convention was held at Madison Univer/ for the present tnonth is T. R. Woodbridge. \I sity, Hamilton, N. Y.,. and an1.ong the~ colle. ge1' The .follovving bills are on the calendar : represented were Unton, Cornell, Syracus ·~~ An aCt to repeal an ad: of the laws of r883, Rochester, Hatnilton and the Troy Polytechni ' . e~t~tled '.'An. a~ to re~~late and itnprove the Th · · :~: . . b civil service of tne U. S. e question chosen ior the JOint de ,ate b A resolutioa to atnend the constitution. tween the tnetnbers of the Philotna thean a · An aCt to establish a new extradition treaty Adelphic Literary societies is, with Canada, looking to the suppression of de- Resolved, That the peaceful annex~tion 01 falcations. . . . Mexico would he 1 nore beneficial to the Unite An act to provide for the education of the States than the peaceful annexation of ·Canada. i~literate, especially among the colored popula- . · · bon. It wtll take place January 14, I 886 ; proba- A n t 1: • 1 t d ·r·h n acL o 10nn a cotntnercta ra e Wl · bly in the C.ongregational ch~rch. . \}\1exico. Lest some of our alumni return1ng to the ~ The sophornore class sat down to a sumptu- scenes of their college days shall think they have ous repast at the Merchant's hotel October 2 2, stopped at the wrong statlon, we will inform provided thetn. by the newly elected officers. them that Old Dorp has a new depot, and its a After satisfying the inner tnan the following \.la-lah too. Furthennore, they 'n11:rst not be toasts were responded to: su.rprised to find other hnprove1nents, for be- The Class of '88-by President Brennan. sides ~his last gigantic stride towards ~ivHizati~n The Faculty-H. c. Mandeville. the ctty has bee~ 1~ash enough to 1 ndulge In , , Ashy \-A. Iskanian. sewers and electnc lights. Our Military Career-S. W; Little. On Friday, 14th, the entire faculty and stu- :l,, Our New Me1nbers-A. J. Dillinghatu. dents retnained in chapel after the usual exer- ~ Dorp-E. P. Towne. !,'' cises to listen to the senior orations. Angle ~ \Weincke \-W. T. Bishop. gave a pleasing and powerful oration OH politi- ~1 The Absent Ones-F. D. Lewis. cal refonn. Cole discussed Washington as a ~ The Pretty Waiter Girl-E. B. Coburn. ?:\. statE:stnan. An e~cellent oration was delivered i The Scientific Division-H. P. Cutnmings. by Felthousen on the Power of Earnestness. i The Classical Division-L. M. King. LaMonte followed with a patriotic address on , Our Futuxe-J. E. vVinne. Our Pilgri1n Fathers. Landon's eH:ort was a ~· Our Alrna Mater-C. E. Blessing. 1#. thoughtful and earnest treatise on Monopolies. f After indulging in an hour of song the n1eet- On Friday the zoth the second division of ) ing broke up an1id the yells for '88. ' ' ~ the Senior class delivered orations in chapel. ·f By a tnisunclerstancling we failed In the last Courtright delivered a well written oration· on :; issue to report the newly eleCted officers of the ''The Conspiracy of Aaron Burr.\ · Dorwin : Senior class. followed with a good article on\ Conservatis1n.\ ' The officers of the Senior class are as follows: Harris, who has a weakness for anything per- President-T. W. Allen. taining to politics, did hirnself credit in .a strong Vice-president-E. C. Angle. article on \Civil Service.\ Kinne's o1'ation on Secretary-W. F. LaMonte. ,, The Oratory of Wendell Phillips\ was a glow- Treasurer-- r· W. Skinner. ing tribute to the tnetnory of the gre~tt orator, ... Orator-D. B. K.inne, Jr. and was delivered in a dignified, n1c:1nly and Prophet-T,. C. Lawler. earnest manner The last oration by Lawler on I·Iistorian-G. S. Dorwin. \Longfellew\ was pleasing in cotnposition, Poet-F. S. Randall. stnoothly delivered and a good article generally. Addresser-F. F. Blessing. ''

'' ,• .. THE CONCORDIENSIS. ---- ----- --- ---~ --- '8' 2. Waller :a11d A. S. Wright are studying in Europe. Pipe Orator-E. W. Courtright. Ivy Orator-L. C. Felthousen. Ivy Poet-E. E. Veeder. Toast Master-L. J. Little. Grand Marshall-A. H. Jackson. '83. Burton and VanNess have been admit- . te{t to the bar. Base Ball Director-E. W. Courtright. Professor Hoffn1.an is to deliver a lecture be- fore the Adelphic Literary society on Decernber 5th. Years ago. soon after Dr. Potter returned fron1 his trip ::1 broad, bringir1g '• his nobbs,\ the idol, it was discovered that our clin1ate vvas too · changeable for this handsotne ·specirnen of hea- then deity, and that unless sotne n1easures were taken to preserve it the idol would. soon disinte- grate and return to the prin1itive state of 9.11 n1a- terial-· dust. Then it was that the students catne to the rescue and ended the ravages of ti1ne and weather by a good coat of paint. For I a time every Freslunan class celehrated its maiden racket by painting the idol 1'hat hap- py, sensible custotn has, sad to ~a y, ceased to exist, or rather had ceased to exist till the great and glorious class of '89 entered the classic halls ot ~~Old Union,\ and now the iciol rejoices in a coat of paint rivalled in hue only by the \Beacon of the Class Room.\ Why the Fresh- men chose red for a color is a tnystery unless it .is because green and red being cotnplitnentary colors, the one would naturally suggest the other. Big joke, Freshtnen, big joke? but it \vas an awful H give away\ on_ you to cotne to chapel next n1orning with a large grin on your faces and your clothes all spotted with paint. But then this is your first attetnpt at college ... funny business~\ and in the future we n1ay ex- 1 pect better executed jokes, even if they are less brilliant. PERSONALS. '87. Kitts is in business with his brother. '82. Fay is preaching at Mineville, N. Y. Vaughn, '85, is preaching at Tannersville, N.Y. Wells, '84, is teaching school at Grangerville, N.Y. I<etiey, '87, is Principal of Union Free school at Victory Mills, N. Y. '84. I<.itts is engaged in the 1nanufacrure of hosiery at Oswego, N. Y. Salisbury, '86, is studying law in tll.e office ·of U. -G. Paris, Sandy Hill, N. Y. '85. Hoy has accepted a position on the edi- torial staff of the New York World. '82. E. N. Wright is tnedical direB:or of the Lehigh coal tnines, Lehigh, Ind. Ter .. _ '6 (?) Col. A. J .. Parker, Jr., of Albany, was elected State Senator at the last €leB:ion. '82. Y outnans is in the office of LeRoy F. \\Tou1nans U.S. DistriCt Attorney, Charlestown, s. c. Richard S. Hand, '57, was Democratic can- didate for Justice of Supretne court for this dis- trict. W. J. Pollard, '82, was Republican candidate for me1nber of Assetnbly in Seneca county, N.Y. 1 '59· Elnathan Sweet was elected State en- gineer by the Detnocratic party .at the last eleCtion. '86. Wheeler is traveling in Europe with his brother, but intends returning in titne to grad- uate vvith his class at Williatns. '87. Wentworth, since going to Williams, has becotne an expert foot-ball player, and is a tnetnber of their eleven, the coming champions of the Inter-collegiate Association. Edward W etnple, '66, of Fultonville, was the successful candidate for State senator in the E igbteenth Senatorial district. Austin A. 'Yates, '54, ·of Schenectady, was the Republican candidate, and was beaten by a 1najority of nineteen votes. - ---- -~ ---- ----- ~---- ------ =========::=::=== Prof. : \ I-I ow dare you swear before tne, sir ! \ Student : '' How did I know you wanted to swear first?\

THE CONCORDIENSIS. GENERAL CO!LLEGE NEVIS. \\TALE-· -President Porter l1as resigned rrhe college library has been presented with the death tnask of Oliver Cro1nwell.- . It is ru- n1ored that '89 contains .a fast sprint rnnner. ---There are prospects of two glee clubs this winter. The report of the treasurer of the college, for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1885, shovvs that the expenses of the college ex- ceeded the incon1e by $I I ,534· HARV ARD.-'88 has lost over forty tnen.--- The boat club is $I ,8oo in ,debt. A foot- ball eleven has been chosen. P. S. Sears and H. M. Sears, brothers of the tennis cham- pion, R. D. Sears, represented Harvard in the Inter-collegiate tennis to.urnatnent. The nine has lost two n1en. The Literary Monthly has appeared. It is rtunored that J aJnes Russell Lowell will be vice-president next year. PRINCETON .-'89 contains the boy who won the class cup of '67. A billiard tournament .is going on. Free access to the library shelves has been denied the students on account of the nutnber of books pilfered. A polo teatn has been organized. MISCELLANEOUS.-A new chapel costing $zso,ooo is in process of ereCtion at Lehigh. Bowdoin's new president, Rev. Williatn De Witt Hyde, is a graduate of Harva:cd, '79· Brown is to admit on certificates.--, Clippings .. Judge : '' Why did you strike this wotnan ?'' Prisoner: \Because whenever I see a wotnan with a Mother Hubbard dress on, I feel iike giving her a belt. '''-Ex. A Georgian darkey prays with discretion. He said : ''If I ask the Lord to send 1ne a turkey, I won't get it, but if I ask hi1n to send 1ne after one, I get the turkey before daybreak.\ THE LOST SCENT. Seated one night at the table, I was hungry and ill at ease, And my glances wandered idly Over the bread and cheese ; I knew not what I was eating, Or what they were cooking then, But I struck one whiff of odor That I wish I could smell again. It flowed from that grimy kitchen Like '' ile '' from a fresh-struck well; And it fell on my starving spirit Like the smile of a Bowery belle) It quieted thirst and hunger Like p'licemen bouncing a beat, And seemed the harmonious herald . Of everything good to eat. It linked all perplexed flavors Into one perfect dish : But alas, 'twas the same old supper- '' Dry toast, baked potatoes, fried fish!\ It may be Delmonico's artists Could give to my soul content, But I fancy that this side of Heaven I'll never recover that scent.-Ex. Barry, the chatnpion athlete of Q:..1een's College, -7 Ireland, threw the hatnmer I 14 feet, breaking MARRIED. the best amateur record by 20 feet. The senior class at Brown is in trouble over class- .·, day eleCtions, and the affair is to be se~tled by .At Scranton, Pa., Sept., I6th, W. E. ANDERSON, the law. Princeton offers $25 for the best '86, to Miss ELIZABETH, youngest daughter of Mr. \distinctly Princeton\ song. Progressive and Mrs. Dr. Hollister. The couple reside in Scran- tennis is in vogue at Yale. More th1n ton, where Mr. Anderson is engaged in engineering eighteen and less than fifteen hours a week are work prohib~ted at Syracuse. The _tower on the -At Schenectady, Nov. 13th, R. ]. ·LANDoN, 'So, to new Williatns gytnnasiuin will contain chitnes. ~Miss MARY T. GILMOUR of this city. The Williams foot-ball eleven leads in , At Providence, on the Mississippi, Nov. 15th, J. E. the cha1npionship. Chapel attendance is RA~sn'ELL, '82, to Miss OLIVE PowELL. Mr.· Rans- voluntary at Cornell, Michigan and Virginia.' dell is State's attorney in the I2th Judicial district, La. There is a rnarked falling off of attend- At Schenectady, November 3d, A. B. BisHoP; '85, to dance at Michigan since the tuition fees have Miss MARY LouiSE GooDRICH of this city. The been raised. Colutnhia is the wealthiest couple will reside at Warwick, N. Y., where Mr. college in America. Bishop is teaching school. ~1 ' I .. ' > '

~1 ' I .. . > . ! TI-lE CONCORDIENSIS. HELP THOSE WHO HELP US! TRADE WITH THOSE WHO HELP SUPPORT YOUR COLLEGE PAPER. ·~PORTS MAN'S ----- CAP ORAL. The latest, aud becomillg very pojntla r. 1\/a~tujactur- .· , d by special rr>qttest. A deliciou' blend ~~ choice Turkish a1td Virginia. 'The following are our well known Standard Brands: S\VEE'f CAPORAL. CAPORAL. CAPORAL 1 2' ST. J 4.\MES -~, ST. JAM·Es, AMBASSADoR, ENTRE Nous, SPORT. Khnzey Bros. Straz\ght Cut, Full Dress Cigarettes. Our Cigarettes are made from the finest selected Tobaccos, thoroughly cured, and French Rice Pa- per, are rolled by the highest class of skilled labor, and warranted free from flavoring or impurities. . Every genuine Cigarette bears a FAC-Sil\HLE of KINNEY BRos, Signature. KINNEY TOBACCO CO., (Successors to Kinney Bros.) ~ -xo:e:s::: • . ROBERT T. MOIR, (Successor to John T. Gilmour,) DEALER IN BOOKS, STATIO~ERY AND PAPER HANGINGS, zor State a1zd II6 Centre Sts., S.chenectady, N. T . Agency f~r Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Transatlantic Steamshtp Lmes. STANFORD BLOCK. HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Boots, Sh9es and R~ubbers, 142 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. Diplomas, Views, Portraits, Wedd-ing and College lnvitatz'otts, Cards, Monogra1ns, etc. ORIGINAL DESIGNS WHEN DESIRED. .. RICHMOND STRAIGKT CUT (NO.1) CIGARET'rES. f:)ERSONS who are willing to pay a little more F than the price charged for the ordinary trade Cigarette will find these Cigarettes far .superior to all others. ~BEWARE OF IMITATIONS AND OBSERVE THAT SIGNATURE OF UNDERSIGNED APPEARS ON EVERY PACKAGE. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, Richmond, Va. JOHN 1'. JOHNSON. JOHN <9. JOHNSON, - -THE- POPULAR CLOTHIER 35 ::tv.taiden Lane., Next Door to the Wz'1tdsor . ALBANY, N. Y.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. · 10 WALL STREET. :. 'Schenectady Steam L~aundry i Merch.ant ;y~ Tailor, I I 5 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. DR. 0. J. GROSS,. ->+DENTIST.,~ 235Yz STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. wooD BROS., MENS' JfURNISHINGS, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS, CUFFS. Goons RECEIVED FOR TRoY LAUNDRY. 133 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. - GEORGE E. VINCEN1', Work de>ne at the following low rates: Collars and Cuffs, 2c. each; Uadershirts, 8c. each; Shirts, 12~c. each; Socks, 4c. each. All other work in like proportion. THOMAS ODY, PROPRIETOR. Waski1zg, $s.oo, per Term, includiug repairing. 0. VAN SL YCK, DEALER IN FLOUR, COAL, SAWED & SPLIT WOOD·, Lime, Calcined Plaster, Cement & Hay, 57 CENTRE a1zd 7 PINE Sts., Schettectady, N. r. c-oNRAD GCETz,- - . MERCHANT TAILOR, 85 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ~Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. J, H. BARHYTE, DEALER IN GE]\1lJ!S' NU~]\1I~JIING G88D~ BOOKS AND STATIONERY~ AND MANUFACTURER OF ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, Myers' Block, Schenectady, N. Y. 203 S1'ATE STREET. W. T. HANSON & CO., DRUGGISTS AND- APOTHECARIES, FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC OORN SALVE. 203 State Schenectady, N. r. TOILET ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. Paper Ha1zghzgs and Decoratio1zs. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. ROOMS PAPERED AT SHORT NOTICE. III State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. DINNERS, SUPPERS, AND LUNCHES FURNISHED AT SHORT NOTICE. ICE CREAM ALvVAYS ON HAND. REEVES' RESTAURANT. 67 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ...

'l'IIE C<>:\C()H.l>IE:\~1~. Merchant -:,~ Tailor, -~DENTIST.,·~ ,,_, T\TF ST -. ) .. ., ~ ~ . ' . . ' '' T () () I ) B R (_) s. ' j I 1~ X~ q I ~,l T ] { \ l ~Ill ~ (iS, s I r I 1\. r 1' s ' l.' :\ I ) 1·~ R \\ T I ·: :\ R ' G I J ( ) \ T I·~ s ' 1() \V1\LL S'l'H.EE]'. ~<·llt 1 ll t 1 etu (l~r ~ten 111 Tja Ulltlry. \\',•rk d•>lH.: :H tht: f\l]cl\Vin~ !11w Ltte-.: ( 'ollar..; all!l Curt:.., 7C. each: l'nclcr--hirt-.. -~··. e:.t< It: :-;]tirh, I.' 1 >~:.each; :-'oL·ks, 4c. each. :\!luther \\ork in like pr<•i\'rti••ll DFAI.ER 1:--1 FLOUR~ COALi SAWED & SPLIT WOOD, Lin1c, Calcined Plaster, Cen1ent & flay, ~IEll.CIIANT TAILOR, Ho~I~-:Ic-.·. :\EL-r-=\\'1·~.\l{. L'()LL.\R~. cl·Fv~. : s 5 ch-J.·VJ'f-:1~~ .. ~·!,., .sc-1/EJ\?iCTAD y·, N. 1~ I 33 State Street, Schenectady, :-J. Y. (JI~C)I\CE E. \Tl:\J'('E~rrl J ' II. Bi\I.Zll\TTE, p ' I>RALRR 1:--1 GEN1~s· Eni~NI~JIINH Goon~· sooKs AND sTATioNERY, .\:\11 \1\\lT\<'TI Rl.l.:. <ll. 1\~CIE::-\·r Cl'l'Y SIIIR'I'I :\ 1 \ · <.:: r s I H 1 c , L' k I S c h c n L' c t ~t cl y , :'\ . \ · . J 1)1\.C<;<;Is·rs ;\:\1> :\P()'l'liE('.:\l\.1ES, F/.\'1:' CJr;_.1/l)·\'· .·1 .\/)/:'C/,1/. TJ\. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIU CORN SALVE. .\ 1-'l'LL Ll:\E OF L'OLLEGE TE\.T BOOKS. ROOMS PAPERED AT SHORT NOTICE. I I 1 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. j) IN::\ ERSI SlJPPERS, A :'\ n L lT N C I I E S Fl'l\:\J:-;IJJ·:D .\·r SIIORT :\OTJCE. JcJ:· CA)J:~\-1.11 .. ·IIJ n· . .-1 V.\· o .. \T 1/Ai\TJ). REEVES' RESTAURANT\ 67 State Street, Schenectady,~. Y. ' ' l ·.' I , ,. ' ',

,. A NDRE\JV T. VEED·ER,. Wholesale & Retail DI·ttggist, r4r STATE SCHENECTADY,. N. Y. Largest Sto·re in town, and Finest AssorhneFJ.t of Toilet ArHdes. SCIENTiriC AMERICAN ' E s TA B·L.. Is H E 0 I c. .i 6. ' . T~e most popul'!-i\ We~kly p.ewsP.niper d~vo~ed to sctence, mechan·ICS, eugmeermg d~scover1es, tn- ventions,a.nd J>&tents ever puhlished. Every num- ber mustrated with splendid engravings. This publication• furnishes a most valuable encyclopedi& of information which no person should bewi·thou t • . The popularity of th.e SCIENTLFI:0 .AMERICAN is such that its circulation nearly eguals that. of all other }!apers of its class oomhined. Price, $3:20 a ~~ar •. Discount to CJubs. Sold by aU newsdealers. MUNN & CO., Pubhshers. No. 361Broadway, N.Y. rEN .TS Munn&Co.ba.v:e also had Thl.rty• · • ·E·Ight years' practice before the Patent Office and :have prepared than One Hundred Thou• sand applications for patents in the Unitea ~tates and foreign countries. Caveats,· Tr~de-Marks, Copy-rights, .Assignments, and all other. papers of or securing to inventors their riglits in the United States. Canada, England, France, GerDl.any and other foreign countries, pre- pared at sbort.notice and on reasonable terms. Information as to obtaining_patents,cheer- fully given without charge. Hand-books of information sent free. Patents obtained through Munn & Co. are. noticed in the Scie:tfti~e .American free. The advantage ()f such not1ce 18 well understood by all persons ''vho wish to dis- pose of their Jl&.tenta • .Address MUNN & CO.. Office SciEl('l'IFIO .A.MEBICAN, 861 Broadw&y, New York. JtEMOVAL! L. FELD.JY.I:A.N, -·CUSTOM TAILOR- 70 :fay St., (ojp. Dr. Faust,) Sche1zectady, N. r. 'The place where a perfect fit is guaranteed. Two hundred of the latest styles of s~rnples just received from New York. Call and examine them. Repairing, cleaning and alterations of all kinds promptly, neatly and cheaply done. . ... MIXTURES ]?OR :I?ipe ·O:C o·:t.ga:rette. THREE KINGS, Tttrkish, Perique or Virginia. JJ,fELLO W MI .. lLT UR E, Turldsk a1zd Perique. TURKTSH and VIRGINIA. PER.l~UE a11-d VIRGINIA. GE1VUINE TURKISH. FLAKE CuTs Es:PECIA.LL Y ADAPTED FOR THE PIPE. VANITY 'FAIR~ OLD GOLD. Fragrant Vanity Fair, Superlative and Cloth of Gold Cig·arettes ALWAYS FRESH, CLEAN AND SWEET. Our Cigarettes were never so fine as now; not be surpassed for purity and excellence. purest rice paper used. they can- Only the WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

E. :EJ. A TX::::J:NSO~., AN.Tf~T 1i\.Nl5 p>Ple)'f'e)~\JE)~1ID~~-rg . ~ . ~~ ~~~~, NOW LOCATED AT 2$7 .AN.D 25 9 STA.TE ST., SCHENECTA.Dr, N. r., Has been the Class Photographer to the foHowing institutions: Cornell, R,.. P. I., WiUia•rns (twice), Columbia (twice), Stevens and Wesleyan and several other noted institu:Uons. ~St'tul~nts are welcome • F. D. HUBER, . REESE & HARTLEY •. DEALER IN DEA-LERS IN Eoots and Shoes._, CHOICEGROCERIE·S;&PBOVISIONS STACY, ADAMS & CO.'S GENTS' FINE SHOES\' A SPECIALTY. Also, Custom Work and Repairing. I I2 State St., Schenectady, next to Walker & Mairs. KING, ,, T ,, HE TAILOR, No. I02 State St., Scleenectady, N. r. FULL DRESS SUITS TO LET. AT THE City Boot and Shoe Store Is the place to· find the celebrated Yohnston & Mztrphy, Sam'l Gcetz, Y. & H. Fitz}atrlck G:SNr.:t'S' l:':t:N\:E.l s::a:o::e:e, 267 STATE STREET. }OHN G. SCHUMACHER. The largest and most complete a~sortment c£ Toba~co, Clgars, Cigarettes:, Pjipe~, etc., IN 'THE CITY. CORNER OF UNION AND ROMEYN STREETS. .· L, T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER. Agent for Dunlap and Knox Hats. Best . assortment . of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, etc., in U~e city. No. IOI St(lte Street, .Schenectady, N. Y. . A. BROWN & SON, Established xS.~!). • . Upholsterers * and * FuJnitnre * .D·ealers, I54 ST.ATB ST., SCHENECT.AI>r, N. :I: . L' A. YOUNG, t ------ fianos, Organs and Mus~ical Merchandise GENERALLY. Domest-ic and otker Family Sewing Mackt\nes. 166 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N. Y. JOSEPH GILLOTT'S STEEL PENS. THE FAVORITE NUMBERS. 303,404, 332;351,170... AND \HIS OI'IIER S'IYJ.ES SOLD BY All DEALERS 'IHROUGHOUT 1HE. WORLD. I:W.Tl'ltY BOLTZMANN & FITZMAURICE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL @UOfl1HIE~S -;y~ AND~ ffiE~GHANfl1 ~ €>AIUO~S, 77 AND 79 STATE ST., Cor. FERRY, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

