VOL. VIII. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 25, 1885. NO.4· --~---~~--------------------------------------------- ----------------7-------------------------- PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. ]. T .. MOREY, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A. C. EGELsToN, '85, . AssocrATE F. s. RANDALL, '86, LITERARY H. J. COLE, '86, PERSONAL T. R. WooDBRIDGE, '86,} E. M. CAMERON, '87, LOCAL G. D. BUEL, '87, WILLIAM HUTCHINSON, BusiNEss EDITOR. TERMS, $r.50PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE We desire our j'rie1zds to send us contributioJts, items of interest and information concenzlng· Alumni. All business letters should be addressed to the Buse'- ne.ss Editor. Entered at the Postoffice, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EkJITOl\IfiL. mH I LE our department in physics, in re- ~ spect to its equipment with apparatus, ~ etc., is second to few in the country, I the students have not, as it seems to ~ ~s, derived the benefit which would have been possible under somewhat differ- ent management. It has been feared that if students were allowed the privilege of ex- amining for themselves the various mechan- ical devices for illustrating the scientific principles with which they are supposed to becon1e familiar, and were allowed to use them in performing experiments, many would abuse the privilege and by their carelessness injure the instruments. Nor are we in favor of granting the use of valuable instruments to students indiscriminate! y ; but the plan, which is now being tried, of pern1itting all who may desire,. to perform for themselves, under the supervision of the professor hav- ing the department in charge, the experi- ments described in the daily recitations, we certainly approve. It is not likely that all will care to takt the time and trouble which these experiment~ require; but by those who are sufficient1y interested, the privilege will be highly appreciated. A similar need is felt, though for different reasons, in our departn1ent of chemistry. Many in the study of this science would be greatly benefited if suitable means \vere pro- vided whereby they might perforn1 such ex- periments as are described in the text- books. To be sure, there is a laboratory course cpen to students, but this is too expensive for those not wishing to n1ake it a specialty. What is needed is son1e arrange1nent by means of which, at slight expense, simple experin1ents may be perforn1ed. ~GAl N we raise the base-ball question. It is generally accepted as a fact that I we are to have a nine next tern1, and ~ that the nine shall be composed wholly of college men. It is true we have lost all the old players except the substitutes, but there are still players enough left to forn1 a nine whicl) would do us credit. At any · rate, we shall be free fron1 taunts of having hired players, and whatever superiority the nine 111ay attain wtll reflect all the more credit on the college: It is now about time to 1nake a selection of players to work in the \gym.'' As the nine is to be wh oily of ..

THE CONC:ORDiliENStS. new players, it would seem advisable to se- lect at least twenty men to compete for positions. We say \select twenty men,\ not because there is any trouble in finding aspirants for the positions, nor to exclude any one frotn trying for a position; but be- cause ~ome evidence that there is to. be a nine must be given before candidates will show any interest. When, therefore, the director shall have made a selection, it is to be hoped that the candidates will enter ·into . the work with some spirit and prepared to form a nine which shall continue the bril- liant record achieved by the nines of the few preceding years. And they will do well to remember that it depends on them whether the distinction of belonging to the Union College base-ball nine shall be de- sirable or undesirable. mE wish to show our appreciation of the ~ manner in which the recitation in po- ~ litical economy is conducted. The I encouragement there given by the cJ professor to a free expression of opin- ion is clearly in accordance with the latest methods of instruction. We would also call attention to a thought suggested by this recitation, namely: the importance of a stu- dent's thinking for himself. The chief profit of a coHege education lies in this power of originality and independence. If the col- lege man has not acquired it, partially at least, at the end of the course, then he might better have remained at home. He has no use for a liberal education ; and, on the other hand, educational interests have no use for him. This matter should be realized by each student, to the end that he may im- prove his opportunities and not lead the in- consistent life of a n1an attending an institu- tion of learning, yet not striving for the benefits offered by the institution, :Nr!HERE is one fact in connection with ~· ~coHege life to which the attention of ·I our students should be seriously di- LC<iJ rected, viz: the indifference manifested in the general college meetings. These meetings are called for the purpose of giving students of every class an opportunity of ex- pressing their sentiments in regard to the subject in hand. Not only is it their privi- lege,. bat it is their duty. It is not enough. that tb.ey should sit passive, showing neither approval nor disapproval. When a question of g:eneral interest to students is brought before them, the n1overs wish to know the feeling in regard to it. We know that schemes are sometin1es entered into which are 11ot approved by the majority, simply be- cause each one waits for another to say son1ething. ~~he ~~ollegian. ~~COPY of a n1agazine bearing the above ~ title is before us; the object we will cuy~ let it state for itself: I \ In presenting this, the initial num- ~ ber of The Colleg£a1t, to the considera- tion of the public, the management desire to call attention to the following considera- tions, and to set forth briefly the objects of the publication. \The paper will be devot~d primarily to the interests of colleges and their graduates. All .c()lleges and the graduates of all colleges will receive equal attention in its columns. \ Tke Colleg£an in its departments will cover a wide field editorially, having con-, stantly in view the need, on the part of the youth of America, of a broad and liberal ed- ucation, and will always oppose the belief, which seems of late to be gaining ground, that a liberal education unfits a man for use- fulness in life. Arrangements are being made to secure, from college professors of distinction, frequent contributions on sub-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 33 ---------------- -··- - jects of present interest in the various branches of learning.'' The present number contains a directory of something over a hundred colleges, giv- ing the date of the establishrnent of each, the name of its president and the president of its Alumni Association. Concerning this it says: \'The registry of colleges, as pre- . sented in this number, will ahvays be a feat- ure of The Colleg£an. It has been prepared at considerable pains, and it is believed that there is nothing like it extant.\ An obituary notice of Prof. Price is given, as well as items concerning several of Union's graduates. The account of our Idol-Freshman episode, however, was slightly inaccurate, as the Freshman was hardly \bound on the idol and left, like Simeon Stylites, to keep his solitary midnight vigil.'' atire. \' BY THE OWL OF RIGHTY-SJi:VRN. ~UREL Y 't would seen1 in these halls that the ~ spirit of Learning would hover; J ~ Long have their ceilings re-echoed the low dron- ing voice of the student, Working out intricate problems oc connmg some Greek conjugation, Till the old clock, growing weary of striking such long, tedious numbers, Stopped with one petulant stroke, and the 111oon, sink- ing low in the heavens, Peeped in to see why a mortal, unasked, thus was sharing her vigils. Forth from these doors have been sent with a smile by their Cherishing Mother Men who have since made their 1nark; in these ro01ns they have left their initials Carved on the old massive doors, or engraven out under the windows. Have they left none of that spirit which gallantly bat- tled with Conics, Patiently dug after roots in a way that would please even \ Whitey,'' Or in the gray of the morning aroused them to wrestle with Logic? For, if the truth must be told, not even these memo- ries hallowed- No, nor the peaceful seclusion befitting a temple ot Science, Seem to be able to banish the worst foes of studious habits. Strange it may be, but 'tis true. Do you doubt my assertion? Then follow. First to the woods we must go, and there in the moist, shady hollows Gather the seed of the fern, and while the tall pines nod and whisper, Sprinkle it inside our shoes; for as soon can be seen autu.mn's breezes As can the one who availeth himf5elf of this charm of the fairies. Like to the film of a bubble our forms disappear in a twinkling. Praise to the wise little men! But haste, brother spirit, come follow, Though, like the prattling nymph Echo, I give but n1y whispers to follow. . Now past the hideous idol, past cross-bow and cheese- box, we hurry Back to the old dormitories. The halls with our foot- steps resounding, Seeing no cause, look blank (as blank as they can when so scribbled). Hist! now be quiet, and enter the door on the left I shall open. Let the door gently s:wing shut, and hear what yon student will mutter, Raising his head for a mo1nent from that which ab- sorbs his attention : ''Did not the door just now open? Oh, pshaw! 'twas the wind. I am thankful None of my pleasant companions have yet sauntered in to disturb me. And if they would not this 1norning! These lessons-\ \How are you, old fellow? Got up the Greek? Plague take Analytics! I'm sick of the business. Well, B., your bed is a nice place to poll-\ \Equals r titnes the cosine-\ \ Say, do you know what the Chi Psi' sare planning?- Oh! here comes old Fatty.'' ''IIi! youoldboy! yougotleft,eh? Oh!B.,didany tell you How he was 1nittened last night?'' \Don't believe one word of his nonsense.'' \Hear the innocent creature! Why, B., it was per- fectly killing.'' ''Pity it didn't kill you. There'd have been in the world one less donkey.\ ''Thank you sincerely, my brother! But really I mustn't stop polling.'' \Help rne a little on this, B. I can't get it quite through my noddle.''

I , ,, 34 THE CONCORDIENSIS. '' \Vell, if here don't come sotne tnore!\ ''Sit down, fello\v·s and make yourselves friendly. Chairs lacking? Draw up the trunk to the fire, F.\ \ Say, 'vhat is the reason F.'s like an elephant? All give it up? Why, he car- ries a trunk.\ \ Oh-h!\ [Those who don't know college custotns will doubtless desire explanation. \Vhene'er a joke or a pun's perpetrate<}, all sink back- ward gasping As if about to expire, and sigh \Oh-h!\ in dolorous chorus.] \Come off! I hardly thought that of you, H. It tnigh t be expected Of the man double you [W] in size at least. But when you go to punning, 0 boasting Pharisee, pluck first the beam from your own swollen optic.\ \ Corne, boys, it's time to be going.\ \ Hold! you are too fast by a long shot.'' \There you are off your base.'' \ Terribilis jlu1zk erz't mihi !'' ''So sav we all of us. So-'' and the rest is lost in o/ the clatter As down the staircase they hurry; while B., picking up a few text-books, Follows, but with a sigh which tells more than lan- guage can utter. Going with them, we tnight see the result of this hour of hard study In the old class-room, South College, where B., in the chair before \Whitey Blunders through all his tt·anslations, arousing the ire of the latter. \Come come, young man! You must not forget derhrations, I tell you. Oh! dear, dear, dear! '(ti\.lta,' 'but!'' Why, I've told you times more than a hundred '\~·1A.i\..cr' don't always mean 'but.' Why don't you translate as I tell you? What did you say? Dictionary? Consider me your dictionary. See here; you don't know the meanings of words.! Why, what has possessed you? I gave to all of you fellows good marks last term ; you deserved them. But now, if this sort of work goes on, I will make a reduction. Then, I imagine, there '11 be some suicides down in the Mohawk. Well, that will do now; but don't you forget to look out derivations.\ Jutit as a poor little mouse cowers under the paw of old Tabby; Just as it scampers a way to its hole if the overfed crea- ture, Tired of her sport, lets it go; B. sits in the chair,. pale and trembling, Venturing hardly to rnake a reply till the lat;t words are spoken; When, scratched and ruffled, still smarting., he seeks his place in the corner, There to derive some small comfort fro·m watching a new victim's writhings. Or mathematics, pethaps, is the cause· of our hero's disaster: And at this moment poor B. is standing perplexed at the blackboard, Biting his lips, with a brow like that of a rain-gullied mountain, Gazing helplessly, hopelessly there at the obstinate figures, Which somehow will not come right; while before his brain, tired and bewildered, Cosines and coversines flit, parabolas, circles, ellipseR, Zeros, infinities, x's and y's, in the wildest confusion; p,owers, differentials, equations and formulas all but the right one, Brackets and minus and plus being powerless to quell the disorder, And every white ghostly symbol sings loudly a song of derision, Faster and faster still dancing in endless and intricate mazes: \Zero a zero, a zero-yes, naught but a zero awaits yott'!\ Sad, sad the sight! Flunked, flunked is B., his di~­ consolate features Forming a picture of perfect despair, as he turns fron1. the blackboard. 0 thou poor victim of overkind friends, may sotne angel befriend thee! One of those beautiful angels that tnake this quaint city an Eden. May her soft hand, on thy manly but trembling arm resting so lightly, Raise thee to the third heaven, as you saunter along in the moonlight; May her sweet whispers drive far from thy mind every care, every sorrow! But-oh, alas! that the visits of angels should take place so rarely! Woe that the sorrowful souls to be cotnforted should be so 1nany! Dawns there a morning that sees not such scenes as I've been describing? Countless the nutnber of failures, and as for the cause, I have told it.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 35 Every one suffers anJ knows, too, that every .one else also suffers ; Yet this fact rarely restrains him from talking when- ever he wants to, Whether his friend be studying Greek or writing an essay. What does it 1natter to him? '' Peek-a-boo~' he will sing just as loudly. Or if the case be reversed, though his mind be a raging volcano, Not a word falls from his lips, when a word would stop the annoyance. \Oh!\ I can fancy I hear some one say, \ shall I tell n1y cmnpanions Bluntly and sharply, ' Stop talking; I want to attend to my lessons'? One who should follow that practice would soon, I fear, find hin1self friendless.'' Satirists ridicule only, and need not find remedies al- ways. Nearly exhausted my paper, of galloping dactyls I'm weary .. But if you choose, in conclusion I offer a single sug- gestion: Friendship which bears not the truth, is not worthy the title of friendship. Oh! Leo ! Leo ! Leo ! Leo ! The sweetest eyer seen ! ' T were butter we had never tnet, ~h ! Leo Margarine ! \-Targum. The new elevator recently put in at Vassar College is not n1uch used, as the girls prefer to slide down the banisters. \What do you think of Fielding?'' asked a Boston girl of a .Harvard :5-raduate. \Oh it's in1portant of course, but it don't amount to any thing without good batting \-Ex. \What fine kickers you have on your nine this year,\ remarked Miss Jones to a young PrincP-tonian. And she is still wondering why he cut ber next day on the Avenue.- Acta Colunzbiana. \There's something about your daughter,\ Mr. Wang hop said reflectively, \there's something about your daughter.\ \Yes said old Mr. Thistlepoe, \ there is ; I had noticed it myself It co1nes every night about 8 o'clock, and doesn't go away usually till abont 1 r o'clock. .And some of these evenings I am going to lift it all the way fron1 the front parlor to the side gate and see what there's in it.\-Ex. LOefiL. The Seniors are reading Julius Ccesar. The task of recataloguing the library is approaching completion. Rev. E. N. Potter, President of Hobart College, was around recently. In spite of the good work of last term sev- eral N.-S.'s appeared on the roll. Van Benthuysen, formerly a member of the class of '87, has joined the class of '88. Freshman (having been called upon to re- cite) : \ I am not prepared. I was up yes- terday.\ It is reported that the college has pur- chased the house that belonged to our late president. Prof. Whitehorne has so far recovered from his late illness as to be able to resume his classes. The Senior class in astronomy has been engaged in star-gazing. Very interesting, but rather cool. Lieutenant Hubbell drills the Freshmen, together with the Citizens' Corps, once a week in the annory. We are glad to see that Foot, '86, has so far recovered from his accident as to be able to return to college. One of the Freshn1en, showing an unusual amount of enterprise, is taking political economy with the Seniors. \The latest work of fiction\ is the cata- logue of 1884-85. If you wish to keep up with the literature of the day get one. Prof. Haw ley has been suffering fro1n a severe attack of rheumatism, aggravated by inflammation, but is again able to be around. Soc!ety 1nen tell us that Schenectady has been quite lively so far this season, parties, socials and germans being of frequent occur- rence. Bailey, of the Senior class, has been as- tortishing as well as edifying the natives of Great Barrington, Mass., by turning red litmus blue, and vice versa.

. i i i . I I 36 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Seniors anticipate enjoying their class supper at Saratoga. The Juniors will not spend the whole term on heat, but will ta~e up electricity as soon as their present work is completed. Swinton's \Studies in English Literature'' have beea taken up by the Sophomore class. It is the intention of Prof. Hawley to prac- tice oratory in connection with them. Eighty-eight shows lots of\ push.\ One of its n1em hers stated not long ago that not a committee which had been appointed had properly performed its work. The commit- tee on the class cut was so dilatory in the performance of its duties that the editors of The Garnet meditated furnishing one for it. having for its design an elegant and chaste engraving of a rn ilk- bottle. It was rumored on the hill a few days ago The fifty- eighth annual convention of the ·. that a college man had been arrested upon Delta Phi fraternity was held at the house the charge of a countryman who had his of the Eta Chapter, University of Pennsyl- clothes-line stripped the night before. In- vania, on the last three days of December. quiry proved the falsity of the outrageous One of our professors fell into the river story, and closer investigation revealed its while skating a short time ago. He received origin-a pillow-case stuffed with clothes no harm from his accident, with the excep- being transported to the laundry on the tion of losing the young lady's skates with shoulders of a sturdy Freshman, and what whom he had been skating. \ might have been !\ The prospects for an early funeral fron1 N. S., N. C., are quite bright. This section contains a violin, two banjos, a piccolo and t\vo tin whistles, besides numerous n1inor instruments, such as \ bones,\ horns, etc. Prof in Latin : \ You are rather late in to- day, Mr. 13. '' B.: \ Yes, sir ; but this is the Iat( e )in class.\ When the ·Prof. regains consciousness the class has disappeared, and nothing is beard save the thumping of the steam pipes in the basement. Stoller, of the class of '84, has entered · upon his duties as tutor in natural history .. Aside from his regular work he has taken T~tor Depuy's class in algebra That Mr. Stoller is proving a satisfactory instructor is evidenced by the esteem in which he is held by \the boys.\ 'The following appointments have been made in the military company: Second Ser- geant, H. M. Van Dusen ; First Corporal, ]. E. Brennen ; Second Corporal, W. T. Bishop; Third Corporal, F. B. Richards; Fourth Corporal, C. S. Davis ; Fifth Cor- poral, J. M. DeLong. The following are the subjects for essays: Seniors: \Sources of the Pleasure of an Evening Party (at least the primary sources).\ Juniors: \Advantages and Disadvantages of the Legal Profession as a Career.\ Soph- omores: \ Intercollegiate Contests, Literary . and Athletic-their Benefits and Evils.\ Perhaps most of the residents of North College remen1ber the unstable condition, about last commencement tin1e, of the spout belongiog to the pump .which adorns the grounds connected with said college. A certain Junior of that time had a pet pitcher in which he was accusto1ned to convey the fluid necessary for the proper performance of his ablutions, and as he is said to be an ardent adn1irer of St. John, it might be in- ferred that his thirst was quenched frotn the san1e source. Regularly every morning might this pitcher be seen on its accustomed round; but the proverbial fate which hangs over a certain class of pitchers was n~t to be escaped by this one. One morning, as our] unior in his usual dignified n1anner was in the act of drawing his allowance, there was a sudden crash--his pitcher had \ gone up the spout,\ or, 1nore correctly, the spout had gone down his pitcher. While this was indeed a sad blow, it served, no doubt, a good purpose by teaching a lesson of pa- tience in misfortune, thereby enabling him the better to endure the disappointment of the last campaign. A new pitcher, how- ever, soon took the place of the old one; but, hard to relate, its first trip was its last. The treacherous spout had put in its work quickly but effectually. Though as he gazed upon the wreck his face was a picture of de- spair, his pent-up feelings found vent in that short but expressive phrase, \the dickens.''

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 37 At a meeting of the class of '87 it was de- cided to have a class supper at Hotel War- ner, Amsterdam, at as early a date as con- venient. The con1mittee of arrangements consists of G. W. Fur beck, chairman, C. H. Ashton, G. T. DeForest; Robert Earl, 2d,- A. 1~·. Phillips. L. B. Smith was unani- mously elected toast-master. A college meeting was called Tuesday, January 27, to take steps in regard to send- ing delegates to the convention of the Inter- collegiate Base-Ball Association, to be held next month in Syracuse. The delegates chosen were the Senior base ball director and the president of the Athletic Associa- tion ; the latter to represent us in the Inter- athletic i\ssociation to· be formed at that time. The third entertainment given under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. was listened to by a large audience of interested listt-ners. Mr. Very, of the Sophomore class, acquitted himself quite creditably, as did also Mc- Clellan and Thon1son, of the class of '83, while the young ladies \:vere really quite charn1 ing ; at least such -was the verdict of many ot the boys present. The next enter- tainment, as announced, will be given by Instructor Vanderveer, assisted by students of his own selection. Many of our students have no doubt no- ticed the Hebre\v characters worked in the dome of the '~round\ building, and for the benefit of such as may n-ot be acquainted with that language we append a translation accidentally discovered : · Dies brevis, Opus multum, Merces magna, Magister domus urgef. The day is brief, The work is vast, The reward is great, The master of the house is urgent. Prex. was recently noticed to be strenu- ously endeav-oring, by wild flourishes of his cane, from the college steps, to ward off from the hallowed Campus the two too sport- ive children who had followed hin1 to the halls of learning. Frightened by the stern mien under which the Freshmen quail, the children retreated in dismay, and from the manner in which they sought refuge \vith Prof. Webster, who was approaching, it was easily seen they belonged to him. Prex. received a suggestive warning frotn the pa- ternal guardian to the effect that in order to avoid difficulty he had better let those chil- dren alone, and then everything was ex- plained and the machinery of the great in- stitution once more rolled smoothly on.-The Ro~·hestcr Ca1npus. A student of N. C. not long since observ- ~.ng that his lamp was burning rather dimly, and considering that the oil was exhausted fron1 his own can, essayed to borrow son1e from a neighbor, that he might pursue his astronomical calculations preparatory to his morning recitation. Therefore, lamp in hand, he entered the aforesaid neighbor's roorn, the occupant of which happened at the time to be out. The oil- can, however, stood in plain view, and raising it he noticed that it had been newly filled, when suddenly changing his mind, he determined to await the arrival of the owner, and, replacing the can, returned to his room. In a short time the absent one, accompanied by several friends, returned, and in response to his knock our hero of the ernpty lan1p was hid- den enter. '' Sorry I can't accomn1odate you, but I haven't a drop in the room; used up the last day before yesterday.·' Jl!!oral: When you see what you want, don't ask for it. The Schenectady Star says: \The ne\v catalogue of Union University from I 797 to 1884 has been issued and is complete in every detail. All facts concerning the fac- ulty, alumni and those now in attendance at the college can be learned quickly and easily by reference to it, and the searcher is left in no doubt in regard to the infonnation which he seeks. The catalogue is a great improve- rnent over the 'triennial' issued by the ma- jority of universities, and in examining it one is not bothered by the Latin hiero- glyphics, whtch hinder more than they aid in the generality of books of the kind. In this catalogue the his tory of each of the 6,694 men who have been at some period or other connected with the institution is given clearly and succinctly. In the case of grad- uates there are indicated the place of origi- nal residence, residence after graduation, the professions, the positions (official and pro- fessional) held by the graduate, and the date of his death if he is deceased.\

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~~e -~l~rc6h -~~an. _, ~ t;' .... C) ~~r-= .. · ~ §AY, n1y son, thou dost err in surmising . -~ that all fresh n1en are Freshmen. t While, forsooth, it is beyond dispute ~ that all Freshmen are fresh, the con- f Yerse, to \Vit, that all fresh, etc., by no . means follo·weth. \When is a n1an fresh ?'' Why, bless thee, n1y son, a man is fresh when he is-is-when he possesseth too much previousness ; that is to say, vvhen he is exceeding new. But perchance thou canst more readily understand \vith the aid of son1e simple illustrations: Seest thou that youth who now approacheth? Mark well his manners-or, if thou Hkest, his want of 111anners .. Note wi-th what familiarity he greeteth those c•f the superior class; how his vapid tones do sound above the words of his n1ore circumspect comprt11ions. Two vears, in truth, hath he been with us ; these ~·enerable walls have shed in vain their in- fluence over him. He hath been salted down-yea, he hath been pickled, as it were; the terrors of the pu'11p have been pre~ented to him without avail. He still retaineth all his pristine freshness, which doubtless he will transmit to his posterity for an inheritance forever. But let us visit the gyn1nasium ; there, perchance, we may find a fit illustration of our subject. N ovv look thou close, and tell me if thou percei vest aught thou wouldst designate as ''fresh.'' Which, sayest thou? Thou'rt right; his very gait is indicative nf the prematureness which distinguisheth him. See hin1 now at his pet trick as he perceiveth that our gaze is fixe cl upon hi n1. Enough of this. 'Thou'rt quick, my son, to learn thy lesson, and if thou dost indeed desire to avoid the ways of them who are known as \fresh.\ do thou subscribe unto these rules, and paste them in the crown of thy chapeau or on t be tab I e t s of thy n1 em- ory: I. I will attend to n1ine O\vn affairs; and the business of my neighbor vvill I not in- quire into. I I. Nor will I contend with the professor in Greek, saying, for- the second tin1e, \ Lo! it i s thus an d so in n1 in e 1 ex i con, \ or ' · Be- hold! in this n1anner the notes have it.\ III. When my classmate is called upon to elucidate \:vh at he doth not understand, I will not attempt to gain the privilege of showing n1y superior know led§\ e by attract- ing the attention of the professor with a nodding of the head in approval or disap- proval. IV .. If, perchance, I may be permitted to enter for a season the class of my superiors, I Vv'ill keep n1y peace and not thrust forward vain opinions ; for behold ! this Is a sure sign of prematt1r~ness. V. I will subscribe to and hand in promptly the requisite amount of shekels for THE CONCORDIENSIS. VI. I will not say unto the editors there- of, do this way or that, but will betimes in- dite for its col un1 ns that which will be of interest and for the general edification. ------·---- ·---- -------------- ~(~N infernal machine for the extermina- -~ tion of punsters; anvthing from a shot- ..-c~ - i gun to a dynamite born b, but n1ust be \varranted to work at forty rods distance and to kill every tin1e. Cost not to be considered. Leave at CONCORDIENsrs office. And this is why. The sanctum is too oftei1 inyaded by a set of heartless punsters who do nothing but inflict their cruelties upon the poor hard-worked editors. The wretches nntst be killed or cured, for, as \evil communications corrupt goo-d man- ners,,, some of the staff are becoming affected with the disease. 1'he other day Jimmy (our fighting editor) came into the roon1 where we sat writing and r~rnarked to the Freshman as he settled himself before the fire: \ I've just been over in the museun1 for the first time. What a pile of specirnens they have over there. I liked the collection of birds best, though. :Fine, isn t it?\ \Nothing to crow over, said the Freshman; \got just as good a one down hon1e.\ \Oh come off, ' said Jimmy, catching on. \ I don't swallow that. The only collection of birds you'd be likely to have would be made by robin a ben-roost or sotnething like it\ \Well no,·' said the Freshman. \My con -duck is above all such reproach. Ovvl long do you suppose a chicken thief would enjoy my good reputation?'' \Oh dry up!\

THE Cl 'NCORDIENSIS. 39 saiC: Jimmy. \Let's stork about something else.\ This was rn ore than we could bear, and grabbing the nearest article of warfare (which happened to be a stove poker) we let it fly, but the wret.ches had escaped through the door ~ and as J i n1 my s 1 i d down the stairway we heard him chuckle, \Well I ,, swan. f'E~l\~0 J{f1L. 0-57. B. PJatt;C:arpenter bas been appointed Governor of Montana. '73. The Rev.]. J). Countermine, of the Albany Sixth 'Presbyterian church, is coun- tP-rn1ining against the ene1ny's approaches (Darwin, Spencer.. Huxley ct al.) by arguing that t bere is a !hell full of roaring fire. He knows pretty near where it is.-1/artjord Tintes. 9 77· Catneron is now a successful lawyer at Albany, N. Y. v--~77· Devlin~ w·ho has a position in the State J~ibrary at Albany, N. Y., has gone South for his health.· '8o. J. V. L. Pruyn is winlcring at Colo- rado Springs, CoL ·~2. Willian1 H. Reed spent a fevv days here before tl1 e holidays. He is still en- .gag cd in n1ini ng-engineering in the northern part of the Stat e. ~82. Frank l-I. 'vVright visited friends at Union on his \va.y to the Theological Sen1- inary of New Vorl<. The Troy Tinzcs says that he is en gaged to Miss Lillienthall, of Saratoga Springs. V';{'t.f. Harry Veeder, engaged in fan11ing- in Dakota; is no\v visiting relatives near this city. V j84 Me Far1a.ne has e11tered the Albany Medical Colleg-e. (He is the fifth '84 man who bas e11tered.i '85. MunseH, who for some tin1e was con- fine? to his be(l b~ illness, we are glad to see 1s an1o ng us again. '86. Groat was here last week on business.. '86. Mosher and Foote, who were out most of last tern1 on account of sickness, have returned. AJ. Radliffis teaching at New Lebanon, Columbia county, N. Y. '~ J. J. W. Schermerhorn has left college and entered mercantile life. -V'g 7· E. T. Root has been chosen deacon of the East Avenue Presbyterian Church. · V'88. F. J. Davis has entered the Fresh- ~ class at Dartmouth. '88. Gilchrist has left college and gone to Joliet, Ill., to analyze iron preparatory to going to the mines in Michigan. ~EVERAL. papers. have .come to us in ~ very pleasing holiday att1re. The most Jtf~ noticeable in this respect are the Ha11z- L ilton College J!fontlzly, .-f eta Co!uJJzbiana and A1nlzerst Student, wl:ile a few others have put on a little extra finery. The young ladies of Hamilton especially are to be con1- n1ended for their good taste and enterpris~. This is indeed a praiseworthy effort, hut is in the case of the majority of college jour- nals, we presume, as with ourselves, inlprac- ticable on account of the limited amount of cash assets. Outingfor January has arrived, and con- tains as usual a varied \feast of jollity and good cheer.\ An exceedingly bright and · interesting paper is \ Down the Merrin1ac, ., .\ by](. C. Atwood•; \Tangle-leaf Papers\ is continue<.l; a plain and practical article is contributed by R. B. Forbes, entitled \ I-I ow to Construct a Model Yacht.'' Taken alto- gether, the present number of Outing will not be easily excelled. A new claimant for honors in college jour- nalism greets us this month-the Blair Hall Literary Max-azi?ze, published by the stu- dents of Blair Hall, New Jersey. While it presents a very creditable ~ppearance, we shall expect, however, to see it before long n1ore near] y able to stand alone, the present

THE CONCORDIENSIS. number consisting for the greater part of n1atter drawn from outside sources. V£ck's F1oral Guide comes with its pic- tures of bright aBd beautiful flowers as a re- minder that the cold of winter will soon give way to the sunny warmth of spring. The usual number of college. papers are before us, filled with matter mqre ·Or less of local interest. ~~ommencement ::~§ommi.ttee6. ·f. Card Committee--Mitchell,· Foote, Stryker, Morey, Bond. Music Com.rnittee-Barhydt, Mills, Egel- ston. Ball Com mittee-Severson, Perkins, }'ow- ler. Picture Cornmittee- Sweetland, Gibbes, Ebaugh. Supper Committee- Delaney, Crane, Hutchinson. . Class Day Committee-Vaughn, Lewald, ?dcSorley. Reception Committee --~ 3 !~h~rds, Brad- ley, Bailey. \ F. W. RAY, Pnesident \85. ~' ... - ' ~lruotee ~liJeeting.:~ At a meeting of the trustees of;the college clnring the past week the financial condition of the college was shown to be more pros- perous than for several years. No action was taken in regard to the election of a pres- 'dent, though such action will probably be taken as soon as practicable. The subject qf secret societies received considerable at- t~ntion, a plot of ground having been granted the Psi U 's on which to erect a chapter bouse. The president's house, erected for Pr. Potter by his father-in-law, was bought, the sum paid being $ Io,ooo;~· i,. Hon. J. S. Landon, pre~Ui;~nt ad z'Jzteritn, was appointed to deliver tbje,..<;hancellor·s ad- dress at the ensuing com-rn~ncetnent. The Mother Hubbard is of such frightful mien, That to be hated needs but to be seen ; But when sunnounted by a pretty face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace. -Wooster Collegian. Oeneral lollege .eW6. The old est college fraternities are Phi Beta I(appa, founded in I 776, and Kappa Alpha, founded in 1~25. A niece of Washington Irving has offered the class of '85, Princeton College, for the class ivy, a slip of an ivy planted by Wash- ington Irving's own hand. The original plant cam,e fron1 Sir Walter Scott's home at Abbotsford. A regular system of physical training is to be adopted at the University of Pennsyl- vania. It is proposed to erect a gymnasiun1 costing $ so.ooo. Each year a cup is to be presented to the class winning the most ath- letic events. .. The death of Cadet Frederick Schwatka Strong at the Annapolis Naval Academy has been brought before Congress by Represent- ative S. S. Cox. Strong was appointed to the academy from Oregon, September 25, 1'884, and within twelve hours after reaching the academy was in the hospital. His inju- ries were said to be the result of falling from a hammock. A surgical operation was neces- sary, resulting in his death. There are rea.- sons to believe that instead of falling from a hammock, he \vas put in a barrel by n1em · bers of the third class and rolled around the grounds. A thorough investigation of the case is to be made, and the indications are that a system of extre1ne hazing at the acadr emy will be disclosed. 1Hpping6. A Freshn1an of depraved taste approached the librarian the other day and asked for the Police Gazette. \ We don't keep it,\ said the librarian. \Well then give me .the N-iagara il!dez.\-Lehigh Burr. A miss is as good as a tnile, A kiss is as good as a smile, But four painted kings Are the beautiful things That are good for the other man's pile. A beautiful maid at White Bear Sat down on a bumble bee's lair, And then the 1'oft breeze Was full of mad bees, And shrieks, and wild wailings, and swear .-Ex.

