·~~.' . ~/-, ',:··r,· :~: I : I . 1 ! ' l ' I . I :1.996. - - - • .. - 11 .. - CONTENTS:· PAGE EDITORIAL: LocAL, - - - .. .. Forced Apologies • ... .. - • ... 27 LITERARY: Cremation, . • - .. - .. 37 Asleep (Poem)f .. .. - New York State College B. B League. .. 37 A Tobogganing Episode, - The Base Ball Convention, - · - .. 38 ExcHANGEs, .. - .. .. - The Mission of the College Paper - - 38 Freedom of Discussion AllowedSeniors, 38 A REMINISCENCE OF DR. N OTT, Sanitary Matters in North CoUege, .. - 38 DELAY oF THIS IssuE, .. - - THE COLLEGE F.A.rR, . - ... - - 38 GENERAL CoLLEGE N:~tws~ .. SERMON, by Rev. Henry Graham_, - .. .. 39 PoEM, Outre Mer. • - .. No.~. :,' :-- I PAGB. . - - 32 .. .. 48 .. .. .. 48 .. .. so .. .. - 51 - - 52 . .. - 52 - - 52

UNION :COLLEGE, SCHENE,CTADY, N. Y. HoN. Jv:nsoN S. LANDON, Pres-ident ad z'nterbn. x. CLASSICAL CouRSE.- The Classical Course is the usual baccalaureate course of American .coUeges. Students may he permitted to pursue a dditiona:l stadies in either of the other courses. 2. ScritN'tnr.tc CouRs:E.-In the Scientific Comse the modern languages are substituted for .the ancient, and the amountof mathematical and English studies is increased. .. . · . . -:;. ScHOOL oF CIVIL ENGINEERING.--The student in this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of instraction, in its collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulati:ons of many years by the late !Professor Gillespie, .and al'so in unusual facilities for ac- quiring a practical knowleclge of instrumental field work. 4 . EcLECTIC CouRSE.-An Eclectic Course,. consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it .On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be ·given. There are also special courses in Analytic Chemistry, MetaU:urgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address CADY S'l'ALEYj iDEANOF THE FACULTY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE.- Term commen.ces first :ruesqay in ~eptember and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and ,of Practical Anatomy. EXPENSEs.-Matriculation fee, $s; term fee, $roo; perpetual ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25: dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course. $:ro; histological course, $to. For circulars address WILLlS G. TUCKER, M·. D., R.ttGISTRA:ft, ALBANY, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHOOL.-The course ofinstruction consists of three terms: the first commencing Septembers, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found any- where. The Law Library of the State is open to students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Depa'rtment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition, $so each term, in advance; $:r3o for full year, in advance. For information address PROF. HORACE E. SMITH, LL. D .• ALBANY, N.Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This. departn:ent of the University is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomv and Meteorology. For mformatwn address PROF. LEWIS BOSS, ALBANY, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALBANY, N. Y .-For information apply to PRoF. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D. W. & L. E. GURLEY, NOTMAN MANUFACTURERS OF <§>o., Civ'il Engineers' & Snrveyors' Instruments TROY, N.Y. 48 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANr. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, REDUCED RATES TO STUDENTS. Sheet and Roller Drawing Paper, Engineers' . and Surveyors' Transits, etc., etc. ~ Colleg·e Views and Faculty Ptctures kept bz Stock.



its of , . \ \. 1'IIE CO~CORDlE:\~I~. A GOOD PRINTER IS KNOWN BY HIS WORK l'·;i.\, ! •• \ I • • I . ,' \.;..' . . / I . . ., l ,:~~ I : '. ; ,· -~>. ·' ·¥ :~1~ ARTISTIC PRINTER. ---- - ---·--------------\\ 45 LIBERTY STREET, \\\(~~ r. / . . SC::S:::E~::ECT.A.:DY.,. ~- \Y . T_EI~'l'I I \YI'TI ICH_T1' PL~\'fES BY THE SIIEFFlELD SYSTE:\I. ~=- A\·oid painful extractions of Roots and Teeth. --DR. I~'. })El-i'. Gl{AY,--- Opcrati;~·~· J/allanint! DI'J!It\sl Ojli,·c aild Rcsz\dcnec _:\In, 47 ~T.\TE ~!'REEf, ~CHE~ECL\llY. A~DRE\V 1\Icl\iULL~.:N, DEALER IX Coal a11(l \\rood, Ki11(lli11g \Yoo(l A:'\D FIRE KI~DLI~GS, 92 and 91 CH loll d· S, l) a Jld 10 Doc!.· ,','f., Sdlt'JU'dat~l'. H?YI~I~l{'~ OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY A:\\D FI::-\E BO:\'BO:\S. JV,.o. 35 J.\Tort!t J>t·arl .Street, Lllbcnl)'• ... \~. 1~ (Brandl of S(>.) Broadway, ~nv York.) H. /)1·1\?J r.Y, :lr .. Jl!alla.J.tiT. ----- ------ (L:<te with CCR~F:V of ~ew York,) SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. POBTB..e.:...J:TS. T~~!-~- _R_EGI M E~1~ }IILIT:\RY R.Lt\~1) l\: ORCHESTR~A.. ESTAHL!SIIEJJ I.V IS5S . ~ -c.:r s :r: c FuR~:CS:S:ED J.~·r Cc>l!,·ge C,•mmt.'J!L't'lllt'nfs, C•nc·,·rts, R,·,·,-pt:~•1ls, Jreddings, Ser- t'!lad,·s, Ra.' Is, !'a rtJJ,·s, ,,r a II.}' ,,,.c·an~'·Jt 1uhe re t IIC se r- z·t'c-t's.y J·':'rsf-t\!ass .1/us:'.-ians are rc,lu/red. Addn:~~, JO II:\' L. G ARTL..:\~D, Leader ... ~...z Drrector, HEAD\~l'ARTERS A;:o;D lli'FlCE, 5o.; /)'(h~·ay, ·I Doors .Vorth c~( Jlaidot 1-tlllt', Alhll1l'.Y·

THE CONCORDlENSIS. A GOOD PRINTER IS KNOWN BY HIS WORK ARTISTIC PRINTER. -- ---------~----------- ------::-=-i .9 'I' Q_) :~ II 45 LIBERTY STREET, / (~;/ /,...-~ ----~----- ------- -·- ----- - --\\'-... SC~::EN:::E:CT.A.:OY., N. Y. ', ~ G'il -~-~=---i~-+.~1 ---------- TEE1~H WITHOUT PLATES fly THE SHEFFIELD SYSTEl\I. Ilcautijltl! Com_fortable! l~crmancnt! ~ Avoid painful extractions of Roots and Teeth. --DR. }1. IJEF. GI{AY,-- Operatiz.·~ Mechanical Dentist, Office and Residence, No. 47 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY. ANDRE\V 11cMULLEN, DEALER I~ Coal and Wood, Ki11(lli11g \Vood AND FIRE KINDLINGS, 92 and 9-J lht ioll d· S, 9 u ml IO Dock St., Schcncdad)'. HUYLER'S OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY AND r\INE BONBONS, No. 35 ltort!t Pearl Street, A/ball)'· N. Y. (Branch of 8(}3 Broadway, New York.) B. lJt·fi?, rN, 'Jr .. Afa\a.!.:-n·. (Late with GURNEY of New York,) SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. PO:ET::B~J:TS. I 5 a11d I? North Pearl Strtct, Albany, N. Y. TENTH REGIMENT ~IILIT.l~RY BAND l~ ORCHESTRA. ESTABLISHED IN 1858. The Finest JIIusz'cal Org-a1l-izati'on in the State, composetl e#ttkt!ly qf Prtyessi'onal iVusi'cians o/ ackncYwledg-rd ability. .For College Commencements, Concerts, Rece}tii:ms, IVeddz'ng-s, Ser- e~tades, Balls, Parades, or any oc~asii;n where the ser- 'l'ices (7f First-class .~fusicians are required. Addres:-;, JOil~ L. GARTLAND, Leader & Dh-cctor, HEADQUARTERS AND OFFICE, 50,1- R'dn·ay, .f. Doors North of A£aid~ll J ... anr, Albat1\)'.

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. BROKAW MFG. co., NEWBURG, N. Y. \R E L I A B L E\ No. 14. No. H. C. ASK RETAILERS FOE TE:E~ BARNEY & BERRY'S Roller Skate for Racing & Fancy Skating. SIZES, .8, 8~, 9, 9~, IO, IO~, II, II_% INCHES. Price, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Wheels, - $9 oo Price, Polished & Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals & Wheels, 1:2 oo Price, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels, Frames, Foot Plates and Clamps Engraved, and Name of purchaser engraved on Frames, - I5 oo All rolling parts of the above weeels and journals are oi steel, case hardened. each truck consisting of 36 rolls, 7,4 inch in diameter, making a total ol I44- rolls to a set. Testimonials as to the speed and durability of this Bearing have been received from the leading skaters. PoRT jERVIs, N.Y., June 27th, x885. BARNEY & BERRY, Springfield, Mass. GENTLB:MEN :-The new skates with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels received; find them the fastest I have had yet. I can say your skates are superior to all others, having given them a good trial m long and short races. They are the lightest in weight, fastest in speed, and more durable than all others. WM. M. BoRsT, Six day Roller Skater. RoLLER SKATING RECORD.-First Six Days' Race, xo45 miles. Sec- ond Six Days' Race, n48 miles. A.M. POWERS, ~HOJ110G~APHIG fl~TJJISTll, 265 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. T HIS p· APER l~ orh~eN~!s~!~~el~~:~ - -...~~ tising Agency of Messrs. N. w. AVER & SON, our authorized agents. STATIONERY AND ENGRAVING DEPARTMENT. Engraved Invitations for Cnmmencement and Class Day Celebration\ Class Receptions and Social Gath- erings. Fine Steel Plate work for Fraternity uses. Our work is carefully engraved by Hand Process, which is considered superi 1r in result to the various artificial methods now employed by many for a flashy effect. Dance, Menu, and Exercise Programmes.. Class Dies Cr~sts, Monogram, Fraternity Note Papers, etc., etc. GEO. R. LOCKWOOD & SON, Pnblisbers, Booksellers, Stationers and Engravers, 812 BROADWAY, NEW YORK. J¥jf\ Our name is a guarantee for the correctness and refinement of our various productions. J t ' t t

VOL. IX. UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY 25; 1886. ~0: 4· THE CONCORD lEN SIS· APROPOS to t~>e foregoing co~{,supthemat- pusLrsHn MONTHLY s 1 : ter of cremation. A. short tune ago there THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE.· ·. were hopes of a peacef·ul cretnati~n, but the re- cent squabble between the two lower classes put an end to all s~ch hopes. Wit~1out doubt, the :· general sentiment of t1f.te college is in favor of al- AssocrATES · lowing the Freshment() carry out their progi·amtne LITERARY successfully as they can, and of protecting, instead PERSONAL · of harassing then1. The difficulty in bringing F. s. RANDALL, '86, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. E. s. c. HARRIS, '86, } T. R. WooDBRIDGE, '86,. F. X. RANSDELL, '87, c. F. BRIDGE, '87, H. c. MANDE;ILLE, '88,} F. D. LEWIS, 88, ]. H. HANSON, '89, .. I. P. JoHNSo~, '87, BusiNEss EDITOR. LocAL about this state of affairs arises from two sources : first, that every Sophomore· class wishes. t<;> in- flict on the Freshrnen, the sa.tne punishtnent which they themselves suffered ; and second, TERMS, $r.so PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. that were a Sophotnore class to depart fro111 th.e We desire our frie,nds to se1zd us contrz'btdions, items of interest and i-Jzfonnation cmzcerni1lJ{ Alumnz'. All busz\Jzess letters should be addressed to the Bu.si- 1teSS Editor, Box 960, Schenectady, N. r. E?ttered at tke Postoflice,. Schenectady, N. Y., tos second-class matter. PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EDITORIAL. T HE Freshman and Sophon1ore classes have been indulging in a good deal of nonsense in the shape of newspaper notices and forced apol- ogies(?), all arising from the fact that the Fresh- tnan toast-1naster saw fit to celebrate at the Freshrnan class supper the discon1fiture of'' eight silly Sophs.\ If we 111a y be allowed to express an opinion; the eight Sophs, or at least a few of them, proved thetnselves to be exceedingly silly when they took any notice of what \vas said of thetn at '89's class supper, and the rest of the Sophotnore class is unfortunate in having to own as classtnates a few tnen who, in the chagrin of defeat and stnarting fro111 twits on facts, seek retaliation in forced apology and, if possible, in brutal hazing. • usual custo1n the Fresbrnen would regard it as conclusive evidence oftir:nidity .. The latter case is that which prevents '88 frotn pursuing a peaceable course, for we believe the 1najority of the class are in favor of this course and are 111en of sense as well as of sufficient, courage to n1ake it particularly unpleasant for the Freshtnen should they choose to do so. The whole specta ... cle as portrayed last year is disgusting, degrad- ing and demonstrates the fact that a custom so carried out should be abolished. The Freshtnan are unwise in indulging in taunts and from the . average student's standpoint the Sopho1nores vvould be justified in retaliation. Notwithstand- ing this, the class of '88 lias a chance to show a little countge by refraining frc;:nn the usual course of proceedure, and by establishing a sensible precedent for '89 to follow. T HE executive cotn tnittee of the New York State College Base-ball League has been given pern1ission to adtnit the Troy Polytechnic nine. The CoNCORDIENSrs would like to see the R. P. I. nine adtnhted. What savs the ., Polytechnic .2

38 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE Rochester Campus is indignant at the ·action of the base ball convention at Syra- cuse. If the Rochester delegates had no instruc- tions about paying the guarantees to Hobart and Union, then it does seen1. as if the league was a little hasty in expelling Rochester ; but at the same titne it seems a little negligent on the part of Rochester t.o cotne to convention uninstructed on points which were sure to be brought up. Whatever the facts of the case are the Campus shows an honorable and cotnmendable spirit in advocating paying the debt, and in heading the subscription list circulated for that purpose. We hope to see Rochester re-instated at an early date. I T is not the 1nission of the college paper to give publicity to all events occurring in stu- dent life. There are events which, fro1n their very nature and frotn the disgrace they bring upon the students and the college in general, are debarred frotn free discussion and are dropped as soon as possible. If however, we tnay hope to remove an evil by presenting the case to the students, in plain black and white, there is no reason why it should not be discussed in these .columns. It is in this connection that we speak of the 1nysterious disappearance of text and note books, -in other words of stealing. It is un- pleasant to think of a thief in our 1nidst, but we can explain the tnatter in no other way. We speak first fro1n nu 1nerous cotnplaints which co1ne to us and second, fro1n personal knowledge for the writer has suffered not a little inconven- ience frotn the unaccountable disappearance of books. All that we can do is to express our opinion of a 1nan, contetnptible and sneaky enough to steal ~ooks and keep a sharp lookout for the offender. T HE freedo1n of discussion allowed the Seniors in political econotn y and 1noral science too often degenerates into a personal or general vvrangle. As we appreciate this 1nethod of conducting a recitation it would be well to have more regard · for propriety and respect for the professor. The fault is that of no one rnan hut of the class in gen- eral, and it needs only a ''being endowed with reason and free will\ to see where refonn is needed and how to effect it. rs IT a mere, strange coincidence that two deaths and 1nuch sickness have taken place in North College within the last year or is there sotne defect in the '\sanitary condition? It is not the purpose of the CoNCORDIENSIS to create a scare or to lnis-represent things, but it does seern as if North College had ali the sickne&s, and that there is 1nore sickness here at this titne of the ye~r than there should be under ordinarily healthful circutnstances. Will the college au- thorities please inve~tigate the 1natter? At college rneeting held a few days ago it was decided to have a college fair, the proceeds of which are to be divided between the Athletic and Base-ball Associations. .l\ co1n1nittee vYas appointed, composed of the following gentle- lnen: Skinner, '86, (chairman) ; Dorwin, '86; Little, '86 ; Angle, '86 ; Radcliff, '87 ; Rans- dell, '87 ; Johnson, '87 ; Bates, 88 ; Brennan, '88; Towne, '88 ; Hunsicker, '89; Culver, '89; Conover, '89, whose duty it is to Inake full ar- rangCinents for the fair. At a recent rneeting of the above co1n1nittee, their first work was to elect Johnson, treasurer~ and Culver, secretary, after which the following sub-comtnittees were appointed : Making arrangements for hall, Rad- cliff and Bates; fancy booth, Dorwin~ Towne, Culver, Bates; candy booth, Johnson, Hun- sicke~· ; flower booth, Little, Conover ; tniscel- laneous, Skinner, Radcliff, Ransdell ; to consult with the ladies of the city, Little, Johnson, Towne; dra1natic exercises, Ransdell, Dorwin, Brennan, Hunsicker. The fair will be held 4th, 5th, and 6th of March. Tickets are out and can be obtained fron1 any metnber of the cotntnittee. The college chapel has been utilized for the afternoon rehearsal of the intended prog:catnn1e. The students will attend to a tnan, and with a liberal patronage frotn the city, success is as- sured.

THE CONCORDIENSIS: 39 SERMON Delivered in Chapel, January 27, 1886, by Rev. Henry Graham. sionate, dissolute young tnan, and long struggled to hold his passions in check }- y his own power, btlt as often failed, and ran into excessive vice. · When o.t length h~ was converted there was, of PHIL. 2 :r2-r3.-· Work onC-your own salvatz'on with k d h fear a1zd trembling; for £l is God whick v.;orketh ·i~t course, a tnar e · · c · ange, and the power of God you both to will a1zd to do of his good pleasttre. was peculiarly tnanifested, and he naturally T HIS text seems to strike the golden mean he- came to think that God did everything, and that tween two extren1e views that have been held he hitnself had no share in the work. Thus TespeCting. the work of human salvation. The each of these men 1nade the tnistake, which is one view clailns that it is exclusively n1an's . very cotntnon even yet, of tneasuring the work work- a work of reforn1ation. It takes the . of salvation by the pron1inent features of his own first clause of the text, ''work out your own ·· exceptional experience, rather than by the worcl salvation,\ and goes no farther. This view · ·Of God. takes the natne of Pelagianistn frotn its origin- · This second view, which tnakes God accom- ator, Pelagius, one of the early church fathers plish the entire work of hu1nan salvation, co_n- who lived in the fifth century. His opinions . verts man into a 1nere tnachine. It denies were doubtless a reaCtion frotn the extre1ne and . hutnan freedo1n in any true sense of the term, degrading views of the Gnostics, that man is God controls the hun1an rnind and absolutely de- tnentally incapable of good. Pelagius was a tennines the action of every faculty; so that 1nan strictly n1oraltnan, and his growth in tnoral ex- . has nothing to do. While the fonner view cellence seemed so entirely to keep pace with tnagni:fied hutnan freedotn so as to deny all in- his own efforts that in the end he catne to regard fluence fron1 God, this view destroys human his own efforts as the sole cause of his tranfor- · freedotn and n1akes God play on the keys of the 1nation fro1n evil to good. He taught that no hutnan tnind as a 1nan plays on a piano. grace or aid frotn God is necessary ; that free- The one vie·w is as rnuch an error as the will and the teachings of t~1e law are sufficient ot:1er ; the truth is found in the middle ground to refonn men ; \that free-will would not be between thetn. God influences tnan, and still free if it stood in need of aid fro1n God;\ that tnan is free. In the work of hutnan salvation pardon is granted according to our tnerits, and . there is something for God to do and so1nething not according to God's grace ; in short, that the for us to do. We are to work out our own sal- power of God in saving 1nen is inconsistent with vation, and still God is to work in us. Man hurnan freedom. has, not an absolute, but a qualified freedotn. These views of Pelagius have been received And now we reach the really difficult part of by many in different ages who have contended the subject- to draw the line between God's for an absolute freedotn on the part of man. It work and rnan's work. What is God to do in has seetned to them that if God cotnes in with this work of hun1an salvation, and what is tnan his resistless power to aid rnen and save thetn, to do? How, and to what extent does God he n1ust sotnehow infringe on their freedotn. operate on the hutnan n1ind in saving n1en? To Let us keep in 1nind that an extretne view of what extent is the hutnan tnind free, and to what human freedo1n was what led to the belief that extent is it under the control of God? Where .. tnen can work out their own salvation without any aid frotn God. Now let us return to the very opposite vievv, that God does everything and tnan nothing in accotnplishing htunan salvation. This view has borne the natne of Augustinianistn, the cele- brated opponent of Pelagius. He was a pas- does God'~ work end, and our responsibility begin? These are the difficult and itnportant questions ; and in searching for an answer vve rnust look at the hun1an n1ind in the light of tnost recent investigations. And keep before you the thought that our investigation is to find out to what extent the hurnan n1ind is free-for when ...

T'riE CC)NCORDIENSIS. there is freedotn there is responsibility. To \Undoubtedly diflerent intellecrs, or the sa1ne what extent .then, are our -1ninds free? intellect at different tiines, n1ay so1nethnes pass The hun1an rnind is, of course, a unit, an in- different judgrnents in regard to the san1e thing divisable spiritual essence. )_.,.. et we find it ex- · Sotnetimes it 1nay he deceived; it will judge erting itself in different directions. It is capable that which is false to be true, the good to be of distinct acts, and, £or purposes of analysis, is · bad, &c. ; but at the 11101nent it judges, it is not said to possess certain faculties. .i\..fter 1nany in the power of the inteUect to pass any other ages of investigation philosophers are generally , judgn1ent than that it passes. It obeys laws it agreed that the Tnind possesses three distinct did not make. It yields to 1notives that deter- faculties, and only three. That is to say, the · mine it independent of the will. In a word, the tnind is capable of three distinct kinds of acts. phenomenon of intelligence, cotnprehending, These three faculties of the 1nind are the intel- judging, knowing, thinking is 1narked with the lea, the sensibility and the will. Each of these characteristic of necessity.\ faculties perfonns a distinct vvork. The intellect We are all conscious of the fact that the· in tel- thinks, the sensibility fee~s, and the will chooses. lect is not free ; we cannot think ot things other- Now let us look at these faculties separately, . wise than we do think, unless we get sotne new and see whether they are free. light. If freedotn exists, then, in the hun1an Take first the intelleCt. This is the faculty · mind, it 1uust be elsewhere than in the intellect. that thinks, reasons, judges, knows. For in- God controls the intelleCt by laws that He hiln- stance, a loaf of bread lies on the table before· us. self has tnade, and that are absolute in their The intellect fixes its attention on it, and carries sway. And we may be thankful that this is the on a process of reasoning with regard to it. The case. We should be in a sad plight indeed if, at size, shape, color are decided. The intellect will, vve could believe that tvvo and two tnake settles the fact that the bread was once flour, and five or seven. determines whether it was wheat or r_ye flour; Let us now turn to the second faculty of the that the flour was once grain, and the grain once mind, the sensibility. This is the faculty that a grass blade growing in the ground. Many feels. It covers the ground of the desires and questions 1nay be raised and settled in this way. passions, and longings, and etnotions of the soul, Now is the intelleCt free in this process? In by whatever natne we choose to call the1n. other words, can vre think what we please about Vnder the head of the sensibility are ranked that loaf of brerd? No, we tnust think just hunger, thirst, a desire for rest, a desire for what is, and nothing rnore. If it is square we sleep, and all the natural appetites and desires; cannot think it round if we -vvish to. If it is likewise the love of parents for their children brown we cannot think it white, we must think and children for their parents, the yearnings for it brown, as it is, in spite of ourselves. If it is companionship, the feeling of pity or fellow- bread we cannot think it wood or stone. The pleasure, the emotions of beauty, grandeur and intellect is not free to think of things otherwise subli1nity, the love of truth, and by so1ne author- than as they are, or as it sees the1n to be. We ities, that discerntnent of right and wrong which cannot think a cow is a horse if we try. The we call conscience, and many 1nore. intelleCt has no power to think that a circle is a Now we may ask ours.elves whether we are square. And though in his business transac- free in these particulars ()r not, and our own tions a man may try to n1ake hhnself and his consciousness will give us a cotnplete answer. neighbor believe that two and two are five, yet We fully understand that these things are beyond he can never co1npel the hutnan intelled. to as- our control. These appetites and desires will sent to such a proposition. Two and two 1nake rise up in spite of us and clatno1· for gratification. four in spite of us. We 1nay refuse to gratify thetn, but we cannot A celebrated philosopher speaks as follows: silence then1. If we see one of our fellows. in ..

'I'HE CONCOHJ)IENSIS. great agony or distress we can no more help and in the will we find the part of tnan that is pitying hitn than we can help breathing the air · free, in the will our responsibility begins. of heaven. When vve see a great wrong done · Dr. Mark Hopkins says: \Without the to a fellow-n1an, a feeling of righteous indigna- intelleCt there is no light, without the sensibility tion will boil up in our breasts., and we have no there is no 1notive. As distinguished frotn tnere power to make it 'otherwise. And any person in1pulse, rational wiU involves rational choice ; who is incapable of such indignation is sotne- but without the intelleCt there can be no ration- thing less than a tnan. The tnother cannot help • ality, and without the sensibility there can be loving her child. It is no merit of hers that she . nothing to choose. With these we have all that loves it; that love is a natural instinCt: that she . we need, not as a cause, but as a condition for cannot control. And if any 1nother is destitute · will. We mean by will that constituent of tnan's of this love it only proves that she is an excep- being by which he is capable of free aB:ion, tion to her race. If we do a m.ean action it is not knowing himself to be thus capable ; just as we in our power to feel self-complacent over it. If. tnean by the intelleCt: that constituent of his we stand on a hill-top and look over a valley being by which he is capable of thought, know- and n1ounL1in landscape, it is nJt for us to say ing hitnself to be tbus capable.\ whether etnotions of beauty or grandeur shall be Take an illustration of the operation of these stirred in our breasts. three faculties of the 1nind,-a scene that vvas Here then is a second faculty of the tnind that very fatniliar during our late rebellion. A com- is not free ; .. another deparbnent of our being pany of rnen gathered frotn a given section of which the Ahnighty God retains under his own country are listening to an orator. A. recruit- control ; still another set of strings belonging to ing office has been opened. The 1nen are not this cotnplex harp which none but the fingers of to be drafted, but are to volunteer, to choose for Deity tnay sweep. thetnselves. The orator cotnmences by gaining Now let us pass to the third faculty of the their assent to the ~act that Fort Sumpter has mind, the wilL This is the faculty that decides, been fired on. H€ tells thetn it is rebellion, and chooses, prefers, acts, perfonns. And V\Te do their intellects assent to it. He tells thetn that not feel at once that we are standing on different rebellion 1nust be put down, that our country ground now? Does not our own consciousness must be saved or our hon1es and property will teach us that this faculty of the 1nind is free, that be worthless. He tnakes an argument in favor God does not control us in this respect? Do we ot the war, and carries his audience with hin1 ; not choose our own food and clothing, choose their intellects assent to all he says, and if they our cotnpanion& and friends, choose our books do not he can have no ·influence over them. and sports and atnusements, choose our profes- Then, after having gained the assent to their sion and place of residence and church relations, intelleCts, he rnakes an appeal to their feelings. do we not choose whether we will serve God or He tells them how noble a thing it is to defend serve the world? We are living lives of abso- one's country, and a feeling of patriotism is lute delusion if we are not free to choose these awakened; he pictures the cruelties of the rebels things. Our thoughts are not under our con- to their prisoners, and arouses a righteous indig- trol, our etnotions cotne and go as they like, but nation ; he tells tales of the heroism and suffer- we choose for ourselves, we acl according to ing of their brethren in the field, and tnelts his our own liking. In thinking the mind is in a audience to tears. He has satisfied their intel- passive state, and is aCted upon by laws outside leB:s, and stirred their feelings-and that in spite of itself; in feeling the n1ind is likewise passive, of thetnselves. They could not help assenting and is swayed by influences over which it has and feeling. But does he go any further? Does no control; but in willing there is a positive aCt: he enlist for then1? No; they must do the rest. which vve are conscious we perfonn ourselves; He sitnply asks then1-'' Will you enlist?\ Th\ey

4 '? ,., Tl-IE CONCORDIENSIS. tnust decide that question for thetnselves. If they all shake their heads and go hotne; we s::ty that their tears a11d huzzas were very cheap. Why? Simply because their intelleCts were s:ttisfied, anJ their feelings stirred without any choice on their part. But they could say whether they would enlist or not, and here their tnerit or de1nerit cotntnenced. And this may give us the true view ofreligion. It is not religion to think right, to have grand thoughts of God and heaven and hutnan duty ; to reason nobly respecting systetns of theology, for our thoughts are not under our C?ntrol. ~t is no virtue of ours to have great thoughts., and no fault of ours to be destitute of great thoughts, -God conttols this departtnent of mind and gives us such power of thinking as He deetns best. It is not reltgion to feel well; to have good desires and noble longings; it is not religion to haye the etnotions stirred by glowing pictures and pathetic tales ; it is not religion to weep, or laugh, or shout, or yield to any of the itnpulses or etnotions of the tnind-for these things are governed by influences outside of ourselves. God may give us large capacity for thinking and feel- ing, or stnall capacity-we have no responsibility in the rnatter; they are neither our virtue nor our vice. Sonie of the worst tnen have had the largest power of thought and feeling and son1e of the best tnen the sn1allest. But true religion is a thing of the will. It is not to think, or to feel right, but to will right, to choose right, to act right. Right thoughts and right feelings are good if they lead to right will- ing and right doing, but they have no 1nerit in thetnselves. And God, controlling these two faculties of the tnind, gives us right thoughts and right feelings in. order that we tnay be induced to will right and do right. And when God is operating nonnally on intellect and sensibility, we have power to choose for ourselvE:s. God n1oves upon these departrpents of tnind that are under His control so as to pron1pt us and help us to wisely exercise the one faculty which He has placed in our poY'Ter. All His dealings \\.vith rnen are to this efleB. He pur- poses largely to save 1nen through the foolish- ness of preaching. And unquestional)ly the n1o\.lel serrrton 1nust undertake to reach 1nen just as God undertakes to reach thetn. The success- ful preacher tnust address the gospel to these faculties of the 1nind which God has retained under his own control. The .tnodel sennon tnust address itself to both the intellect and the feel- · . tngs. And it will be found that tnost sennons shape thernselves after this order. The preacher first explains the tneaning of the text, and unfolds irs teachings ; he presents the great truths of the gospel and reasons out their claitns on our con- sideration ; he points out~ in the light of Scrip- ture, our evident duty and the great responsi- bility that rests upon us~ and gains our assent to aU these things. l-Ie first addresses hitnself to the intelleCt anrl presents reasons that control its action ; and unless He can control our intellects He can exert no influence whatever upon us. Then he addresses himself to the sensibilities, and stirs the feelings and etnotions ot the soul. He pictures the love of Christ to awaken our sympathies; he dwells on the glories of heaven to arouse the en1otions of beauty and grandeur ; He speaks of the loved ones gone before that our natural affeCtion tnay be an instrutnentality to lead us to Christ. He does not disdain to touch any cord of the hutnan tnind that God has seen · fit to place there, and to touch hin1self. · And after the preacher has gone over the ground of these faculties that God hitnself con- trols, can he go any farther? Can he choose for us? No; he tnust stop here. He has 119 power to detennine the choice or the will. He can only say to tnen, ~'Will you cotne to Christ? Will you enlist under the banner of King Etn- nla:nuel?\ God hitnself will go no farther than this; and it is only God operating on the tninds of tnen through the instrtnnentality of the preacher. And when God's spirit tnore clireetly and tnanifestly undertakes to produ~e conviction in the tninds of tnen the rnethod is the san1:e ~ This blessed spirit first convinces tnen of sin, righteousness and judgtnent ; he first satisfies the intellects of n1en that they ought to be Christians ; ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 43 then he tnoves tnightily on their feelings, awak- in their nature. He cannot be holy and un- ening hop~, feat, longing, des ire, until n1en can holy at the satne titne. He cannot cause a crea- solnetitnes hardly contain thetnselves, they are . ture to be and not to be at the satne titne. And under such pressure of conviction. second, even an Altnighty Sovereign tnay be But He never goes farther; l-Ie never ur:der- .Selj-li11t£ted. His own will tnay litnit His takes to con·trol the' choice of the will. Ho·w- sovereignty. While it is true that no being in ever much God may do for us, He always leaves the universe can litnit God's power, it is equally sornething for us to do. The -fingers of the AI- •. true that He tnay litnit it hitnself. He would tnighty n1ay sweep the strings of the . intellect . not be ahnighty if He could not do this. It does and emotions, awakening a blissful tnelody of .. not follow that he tnust do everything that He right thought and right feeling- but the sh·ings · has the power to do. Man has a little circle in of the will tnust forever retnaiR silent untH they which he is sovereign. There are certain things are swept by hun1an fingers; and these hu1nan . that he can do, but he is not obliged to do every- fingers, if they will, tnay stix sweet tnusic there, ·. thing he can do. Any one of you has power to in full hannony with that 1ID£ty Inelody \vhich ·. co1nn1it tnurder before night, but no necessity is God's O\Vn fingers awaken in. the soul o{ man. laid upon you to do this sitnply because you The proper mt=>lody of the hurnan soul is a duet. have the power. And so God is not a vast un- God plays his part and we tnnst play out· part thinking tnachine that always works up to its in hannony with him, or f1€re will be eternal full capacity without sense or judgtnent. He discord. does what He thinks best, and leaves the rest In answer to the question whether the cup o~ undone. lie is an intelligent, wise, benevolent li(e has n1ore of sweet than sour, the poet says: sovereig~, vvho does what will be for the best ''If most was sour-the drinker, not The cup we blain~. Each in hinlSelf the means Possessed to turn the bitter S\:-'ve-et, the sweet To bitter; hc!nce from out the ::;elf-same font, One nectar drank, another dr~ughts of gall. Hence from the self-same quarter of the sky, One saw tt n thousand angels lo()k and smile; Another saw as many demons f1<own. One discord heard, where harmony inclined Another's ear. The sweet was in the taste; The beauty in the eye; and in the ear The melody; and in the 1nan -for God Necessity of sinning laid on D()Be- To form the taste, to purify the eye, And turn the ear, that all he ta.sted, saw, Or heard, n'ight be harmonious, sweet and fair. Who would, n1ight groan; who would, tnight sing for joy.\ But sotne one will say right .here-\Is not God the Sovereign of the Universe? Can He not do as He pleases in spite of us? If He is Altnighty c...tn we resist 1-I is will? This in- volves the great question of the Divine Sover- eignty. God is Sovereign of the U niveTse, no .doubt. His will is absolute. But even a Di- vine Sove 1 ·eign n1ay be lirnited in two ways. First, He cannot do things th.at are contradictory interests of the universe, and tnore. If the question arises then,-\ could not God · override the human will and co1npel n1an to obey hitn\- the only answer is-\Y es ; if he thought best; but He doesn't think best.\ He has chosen to tnake men free within certain litnits-free to will right or wrong, free to choose right or wrong· in tnoral questions. There is a little circle in which we are sover- eigns. God has chosen to tnake us so. He re- signed his sovereignty within that circle, and left us free. He thought best to create certain beings free tnoral agents, and hold the111 respon- sible for their doings. If we do right within that circle, that is all God requires of us. But the question will arise at once-'' Why did God give us this freedot-n, vYhen it could lead to sin and all its consequences? Was it wise to surround man with this circle offreedotn? vVas it best for God to litnit his sovereignty, in order to 1nake tnen free agents? God thought it was wise and best, and perhaps this is the only answer -vve can tnake with cer- tainty. But a little reflection will lead us to see that this tnoral freedon1 is our highest glory.

44 THE CONCORDIENSIS. .A.nd I call your attention to this solernn ·exist in God's irnage without it. It is here that thought in conclusion : In the case of the tnost our orbit intersects that of Deity and we corne in . of us God has fully done His part-all in kind contact with the divine. Take away our tnoral that He ever will do-and the reason 've are not freedom and you unman us, and convert us into saved is because w¥e have not done our part. tnen anitnals. This tnoral freedotn is what lifts · We are a Christian people ; God hrts enlightened us above the anitnal and allies to heaven. It is our understanding by His word and His spirit; our highest glory, although it likewise involves · we have an open Bible, and the evidences are so our greatest peril. There could be no sin with- overwhehning that we cannot but believe that out it, to be sure, but there could be no holiness ' Bible is the word of God. And we know what We could not be n1en without it. We could not that Bible teaches ; we have had the advantages of Sabbath School teaching and gospel preach- ing. \'God has been laboring with our intellects frotn childhood to n1ake it itnpossible for us to believe anything but the truth, and we stand to- day in the position of those who know their duty. God has fully done his part in controlling our intelleCts so that we have right thoughts on this great subject. without it likewise. It is our highest glory that we can sin ; it is our deepest shatne that we ever . do sin. .... .L\.nd tnen hold their destinies in their own hands. They can turn the scales; this 1noral · freedotn gives thetn the power. It is for each of us the greatest thought in the universe that we hold our .destinies in our own power. We can rnake or untnake ourselves. The In ere exercise ·of the hutnan will can forever fix a 1nan's destiny. And it is so easily done. We often tnake these great decisions without a motnent's thought. The Savior says: \Follow Me;\ and the · young man, without deliberation or stopping to consider the consequences, says perernptorily- ' '0h, I can't be bothered with religion now; there will be titne to attend to such tnatters by and by ,\-and in this brief answer it tnay be that an eternity is disposed of. The streatn of his life, while yet near the fountain head, on the tnountain ridge, is given a direction which de- cides whether it shall flow down the right hand slope, through a land of singing birds and blootning flowers, and happy sunshine ; or of the left through a land of darkness and death. Let us now return to our text, although we · have not been far away frotn it. \Work out your own salvation, for it is God that worketh in you.\ We see then, that in these tninds of ours there is a place for God to work, and a piace for us to work. And God is ceaselessly doing ]]is work, and giving us ability to do ours. He has worked within us the power to vdll and do, and He only asks that we will right and do right. We are responsible for the right use of this faculty that God has given us control over, and we 1nust render an account of the use we 1nake of it. And God has not left our hearts sluggish and indifferent. He has tnoved on our feelings in various ways. His spirit .has directly stirred our hearts ; the beauties of nature have thrilled our sotrls and lifted them heavenward ; God's boundless goodness has awakened our gratitude; the loss of loved ones has given us an intense longing for heaven; the sufferings of Christ have tnelted our hearts and awakened our love. In a thousand ways God's fingers have touched the strings of intellect and heart, until our ~ntire be- ings have thrilled with a divine influence. And then, while under that influence, God has said to us, \Now choose Christ ; now accept of sal- vation,\ and too 1nany of us have not yet done it. Is it not a solemn thought that God has done all He can for us? He has used, and is using upon us all the influences that He ever employs, and yet our wills are stubborn. He is saying to every one of us to-clay: \What tnore could have r een done for my vineyard that I have not done in it?\ Do we expect God to do any more? Are we hoping for any furthei 4 influences? Do we not feel in our very souls that it only remains for us to will right and act right? God leaves with us the soletnn alternative: ''Choose ..,vou this day whon1 ye will serve.\ God has oper- ated on your intelleCts, and stirred tbe depth of

Tl-IE CONCORDIENSlS. 45 your en1otions, but you tnust choose for your- selves. The trouble is, men resist God's gracious in- flences, and the longer they resist the greater their power of resistance becotnes. And they can resist all the irifluences that God ever tnakes use of. God might, indeed, con1pel us to yield to Hirn, but He does not wish to compel us. I · have seen a tnan take hold of the handles of a galvanic battery, and the first passage of the . electric current tnade hitn twist and writhe like a wounded snake. He was ahnost ready to cry, \enough.\ But he was a tnan of resolute will and steady nerve, and he held on while the cur- . rent was increased little by little, until at last he could withstand the full power of the 1nachine, and could S·mile at the weak ones who cried, \enough.\ And so men resist God, and grow strong in resisting, until they can withstand all the in- fluences that He ever brings to bear on intellect and feelings. They take hold of God by those two handles, the intellect and sensibility, and down through these channels God pours all of heaven's saving influences upon thetn, and they resist thetn all and go on in the ways of sin. I have known tnen boast of the nurn ber of revival · tneetings they have gone through without yield- ing to God. When God's servants vvere exhort- ing and urging thetn to corne to Christ, they would stnile in their faces and say : • ~We've seen it hotter than this.\ And men thus live on year after year, vainly . expecting sotne further displays of God's power, when in fact He is doing all that He ever will do-the gospeltnachinery is working up to His full power.; with all steatn on- and yet they will not yield to it. Are there not mqltitudes in this christian land who have for years successfully resisted the influences that God brings to bear on intellect and sensibilities? In spite of right thoughts and right feelings you have chosen wrong and done wrong. The fact that you are unsaved to-day proves that you have successfully resisted God all these years. Do you suppose God has vvanted you unsaved all this thne? You are unsaved in spite of all that God has done to save you. If God could have chosen for you he would have chosen salvation lo~g ago. And if you have resisted God in the past, you can resist Hitn in the future. He is using upon you to-day all the instrumentalities that he ever etnploys. He will never do more for you than He has done-He tnay do less. You tnay he lost in spite of all that God ever has done, or ever will do to save you- if you will not yield to His call. Oh, will you not will right to-day? Will you not choose the Savior at once and settle this question for titne and eternity? May God help you to do it! I need not say that. I ought not to say that. God has helped you, He does help you, He will help you. God will do His part without fail. It only retnains for you to do y_our part, and that part you tnust do if you are ever saved. LOCAL. Every morn When a newday to earth is born, The college bell unlocks my sleepy eyes, Its harsh tones says-Awake! Arise! Arise and flunk in thy usual way; Behold the day! On Friday night, February 5, the 1nen1bers of the class of '89 proceeded to Albany in a body where, at Ca.fe Ma-rz\-lneau. they s~tt down to their first supper as a class. They had enter- tained many fears that their supper would be stolen; the toast-1naster kidnapped ; the train wrecked, and that other calatnities would befall them at the hands of the Sophotnores ; so, great secrecy and precaution was observed by all. At 1nidnight the tnetn hers of the class, began to assetnble from the theatre and other places of atnusetnent, and shortly after were doing full · justice to choice menu. The following toasts were given by toast- master, Geo. E. Merrell, and \vere responded to in a hearty rnanner : Alma 1\tlater .............................. M. Nolan. \Sit perpetua.\ Schenectady Police .................... J. L. \Vhalen. \Relics of Earnumism.\ . Colors ................................. H. G. Dean. \I would not change this hue.\

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Th~e Id·ol ..... 4 •• & •.••.••••••••••••••• • D. S. Voot-h·ees. '' Who is he that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon:o- Clear as the sun, terrible as an army with banners?\ Beau·ty ..... ........................... L. L. Ca.meron. \All orators .a:re dumb when Eeau ty pleadeth.\ Music . ............ a ••••••• o •••••.••.••• J. M .. Fut .... 1n-an· .. \Friend of Pleasure, Wisdom's aid.\ Faculty ...........•.•..........•.•.• C. H. Flanigan. \Well favored, skillful in wisdom, and cunning in knowledge.\ Pretty Girls of Schenectady .....•.•.•.• C. W. CulveJ\. \Thy like ne'er was.\ Motto ........ , .......................... A. R. Co~n~over. Finis Coronat Opus. Eight Silly Sophs .....•........•...•.. J. H. Hanson. \ A set of Blue-Nose, Mexican-Greaser, drunken, cowardl-y wretches, that fain would eat the crumbs falling from the table of the jolly Freshman, but no one stoops to feed them.\ Cribs ..... , ........................... E. S. Hun-sicker. \A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse.\ Class of '89· .......................... M. M .. Smith. \Multnm in parvo.\ The following was the cotntnittee ef ·arrange- tnent: C. H. Flanigan, E. S. Hunsicker, N. W. Wait, R. H. Washburn and J. M. Funnan. The Rev. Mr. Pendleton, rector of the St. Geqrge church, has offered a pt·ize of $2 5 for the best exan1ination on so1ne latin author whose works are not read in college-Cicero preferred -open to the three higher classes. The con- test will take place during comtnencetnent week. Further particulars will be stated next lTIOnth. The students remained in chapel Friday rnorn- ing, February r9, for an hour, during which titne they listened to five members of the Senior class and four frotn the Junior class deliver their orations. Those fro1n '86 were as follows: Blessing-subject, \ The Assassination ofPresi- Jent Garfield;\ H. J. Cole, \ The Value of Ideals;\ Harris, \Literary Reading of the Present Day;\ Lawler, \ Charles Sum11er ;\ Angle, \ Literature_,\ all of whom delivered their orations in a forcible and pleasing .tnan- ner. They evinced much thought and careful study. Ashton, of the Juniors, was the firs.t to s.peak. His subject was \Our Laborers.\ Bennett fol- lowed vdth a well taken e~ort on the ''Sanctity of the Ballot.\ Buel, in his oration, discussdd with force the \ Spoils SysteJ.n con1pared ~ith the Civil Service Act of r88_3,.\ Ca1ne1·on treated '~------- -------------------- , the subject of ''Our Republic'' in such a tnan- , ner as to make an old subject new. Prof.- ''What is a rnonarchy ? \ Fresh.,-' ''A people governed by a king.\ Prof.- ''Who would reign if the kink should die ? \ Fresh. -''The queen.\ Prof. - \'And if the queen should die?\ Fresh. -'''The Jack. \ The subject for the Vedder prize has been an- nounced and the required ten participants have already registered. The general subject is Labor Organ;[zations. The prize ($5o), is for the best extetnporaneous speech to be delivered at coinn1.encernent. The following students will co1npete: Landon, '86; Bennett, Gulick, Rans- dell, Ca111eron, Johnson and Redfield, of '87, and Cole, Winne and Dillingha1n, of '88. The Ingharn p.1izes (for Seniors), are as fol- lows: Subject I, Grant's Title to greatness; 2, Literary rank of George Elliot. The Clark prizes (for Juniors), are: Subject I~ \A Genturyof Dishonor:\ 2, TheGreatEpics. The student cotnpeting for one of the above prizes tnay choose from one of the two subjects. Prizes a1·e aw-arded at colntnencetnent. The college exercises were not entirely dis- continued ()U Thursday, prayer day for colleges, as they have been in past years but were contin- ued until 10 o'clock, at which time the usual chapel exercises were held and a sermon was preached by the Rev. Henry Graham, D. D., of Troy, N. Y. His lucid and psychological ser- tnon will be found in another of our columns. At a college tneeting, the following officers of the Athletic Association were elected : Presi- dent, Landon, '86; vice-president, Bennett, '87; treasurer, 1\\'owne, '88 ; secretary, Voorhees, '89, after which the association elected the following delegates to the New York State ~nter-collegiate Base-ball Association : Courtright, '86, acting base-ball db·ector of Senior class, and Angle, '86,. as associate delegate, with Kinne, '86, as alter- nate. At a Later meeting the president was au- thorized to appoint a comtnittee of five to tnake arrangements for a field-day and atb1etic tourna-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 47 tnent as soon as advisable. The comtnittee were given power to act, but as yet the men have not been appointed. The Freshtnen under cotntnand of Lieut. Hubbell are now drilling with the 36th separate company at the armory. They were eseorted to the armory on the evening of their first drill by a Sophotnore tin band who tnade the hill re. sound with noise. Much improvement was noticed in the drilling of the Freshtnen, as they were able, after due explanation, to con1e to a ''right shoulder\ in three tninutes. Mosher, '86, has left college to accept a posi- tion in the Utica insane asy hun. However, this will not interfere with his graduating. He is to be congratulated upon the fine position which he now holds, but the college is sorry to loose hin1 so early in the year. Since our last issue, JYliss Kate Landon, daughter of Hon, Judson S. Landon, president ad interim of Union college, was tnarried to Lewis A. Cass, a member of the Albany bar, and of the class of '78. The ceretnony was per- fanned by the Rev. Dr. Griffin. Over two hundred guests were present, atnong whon1 were Hon, Platt Potter and Mrs. B. F. Potter, Hon. and Mrs~ N. C. JYloak, Major MacMurray, Rev. and Mrs~ D. Wortman, Prof. Perkins, Prof. and Miss Whithot·ne, Prof. and Mrs. Lamoreux, Prof. and Mrs. Wells, Professors Ashn1ore, Hoffman, DePuy and Wright, Mrs. Dr. Nott, Dr. and Mrs. Duryea. On Friday, February 19. there vvas held a .joint tneeting of the Adelphic and Philotnathean societies in Prof. Hoffman's rootn for the pur- pose of awakening tnore interest in the college debating societies. A chainn~tn was elected pro tetn, and a debate.followed on the subject, \' Resolved that, in general, strikes have im- proved the condition of the laboring n1en.\ It is to be hoped that an increased interest will be felt ·in these rnatters sunong the students. library table after use. The library is open daily except Saturday afternoon frotn IO to I 2 Yz and fro1n 3 to 5. The Fulton County .Democrat tnakes a notn- ination for president of the college. The follow- ing article c~ipped frotn the Democrat explains itself: We are informed by good authority that an1ong the natnes suggested for the above posi- tion during the last 1neeting of the college trus- tees recently held in Albany was that of Rev. Williatn E. Park, pastor of the Congregational church at Gloversville. Our infonnation is not that the name of Dr. Park was proposed in open n1eeting (we understand that no one was there notninated), but that it was seriously discussed outside, not only by certain n1e1nbers of the board, but by others who take a ~houghtful in- terest in Union college; and moreover, his nan1e is apparently 1nentioned not as a restdt of careful and studied political effort, but as the honest ex- pression ofopinions produced by an acquaintance with the 1nan. We have not the pleasure of knowing Mr. Park, but from his reputation in this county we have no hesitancy in affirming that in the sug- gestion of Dr. Park's nan1e there is opened to view a tnost happy tennination of the uncertainty which has too long attended Union college. In this expression we are sincere and enthusiastic, and as a graduate of the institution we assutne the liberty of placing before the trustees of Union college the natne of Rev. Dr. Willia111 E. Park. A college glee club has been fonned consist- ing of the following tnen: Culver, '89; Flani- gan, '89, and Dillingha1n, '88, first tenor ; Catneron, '87, Ransdell, '87, Shaw, '89, Is- kanian, '88, second tenor; Barally, '88, Vor- hees, '89, and Hunsicker, '89, first bass; Ran- dall, '86, Phillips, '87, and Pierson, '89, second bass; Funnan, '89, pianist. Rehearsals are held daily in the chapel and the club is doing as well as cotlld be expected. Messrs. Courtright, '86, and Kinne, '86, rep- resented the base-ball and athletic interests of Prof. Latnoreux has been appointed librarian Union in convention as Syracuse, January 29. of the college library. The following rules have Rochester was expelled fron1 the league and been adopted : Student~ are allowed free access power was given the executive con11nittee to ad- to the shelves. Books are not allowed to be 1nit the R- P. I. nine. The schedule of ga1nes taken fron1 the roon1s and n1ust· be left on the for the follovving season is not yet tnade out.

' THE CONCORDIENSIS. LITERARY. Asleep. A SLEEP my darling? Yes, the eyes of blue, Which rival azure heavens in their hue, Are closed. One chubby arn\l so white and bare, Is pillowed 'neath a head of golden hair. One little hand tight shut upon her breast, Holds fast a lily,-· flower that she loves best. Then sleep, my precious. When the birds again Pour forth their liquid melodies, and when Each rose and lily hfts its dainty head, Then wake thou fresh an.d rosy from thy bed. Sleep sweetly now; the stats above are keeping Their silent watch whilst thou below art sleeping. Asleep my da 1·Iing? Yes, thy last, long sleep, A slumber cahn and terrible and deep. Thy heart is stilled. Thy eyes of heavenly blue Are closed-are closed forever. Faintly through The window comes the light of breaking day, Thy dawn, divinely fait·, is far away We sorrow, but the hosts above rejoice, The heavenly ·choir has gained one more sweet voice. Then sleep the sleep which has no earthly waking, 0 God! my heart with bitter grief is breaking. And while the stars their silent watches keep, T mourn my loved, my lost. I pray and weep. A Tobogganing Episode. \'Hello Bert-old boy-glad to see you! When'd you co1ne? Only hvo weeks vacation? ·Why, we have four'! \ and In any In ore, were the exclarnations Lev Stnith rattled off as we tnet orte afternoon duTing the holiday vacation. It was n1y blue day, frotn the fact that the friends of the once merry clique of tny pre- college existence were scattered, and the ap- parent prospect of another opportunity to coin- pile an '~ Eletnentary treatise on Parliatnentary Rules.\ So you can itnagine with what pleas- ure I hailed the happy countenance of an old friend. \'Going down to the new slide to- night, aren't you? The whole town '11 be out and besides we are to have a big fire,\ said he. He ended the discussion, at least, so far as I was concerned by arranging to stop for tne after tea and saying he had sotne work to do before he went hon'le. After tea I kindly but finnly impressed tny brother with the idea that he should loan tne his toboggan. I fished out rny last winter's suit,. and when Lev'~ old call sounded at the gate it seen1.ed as though I had never seen Union college, and that I had just skipped out as of yore when I should have been polling up to-tnorrow's Latin for '' Old Bliss,\ up at the acadetny. There was no necessity that evening for Iny singing.: ''Backward, turn backward, 0 time, in thy flig-ht, Make me a child again, just fo1· to-night.'' I was a child in spirit and and the last four years with their pains and worries had appar- ently been erased frorn my memory. As we started down-town Lev infonned n1e he had written a letter to Beth Morse, a friend of his, asking her to get sotne one for me:. to es- cort and ~that we were to call for thetn on our way down. We called for the young ladies and after various cominents on the snowshoe club's new suits, the speed of our respective toboggans, etc., we started for the slide. Lev was walking with Miss Morse, and they plunged. inunediately into sotnething apparently very confidential, leaving tne to entertain her friend as best I could. During the interlude betvveen less sensible topics and the \ weather,\ to which, soinethnes even the tnost expert conversationalist is d:rh:en, I overheard Lev. ask, \Why didn't you try and get May to con1e down with Bert? It would \ '- ~- ~ have done her good.\ '~I dtd try, but you know how she feels,\ answered Miss Beth. Miss Blake tnust have thought the \ weather\ the last straw to the catnel's back during the l'e- tnainder of the walk. I kept wondering in my tni'nd whoever May could be and what was the cause of Miss Morse's answer, but as soon as we caine in sight of the fire and slides, and the long line of spec- tators, we all chitned in together and I think I redeetned n1.yself as synonytnous with V ennor. Who can justly describe a toboggan slide? Not I. Who would live in a wann clin1ate dur- ing the winter, and who says the Canadians don't enjoy theinselves? Not I. What a t11ed- ley of yells, laughter and tnusic as the toboggans with their healthy, red-cheeked, fur-clad loads, flew down the chute past the crowds, past the slowly returning line. The very twigs flbrat.ed

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 49 and each toboggan seerned to be trying to outstrip . sisted that they take his toboggan .and finish the the others-, finally beating its own shadow as afternoon. This they refused point blank. they shot down on the river where night was ·. You know how srnoothly and 'politely he contending with the fire as to which those 111erry could put anytl1ing like that, so that it would tobogganers loved best-ligl1t or darkness .. seen1 perfecdy proper. He became very elo- After sliding till the work in getting back largely quent, and as I :thought tnade 1nore out of the over-balanced the sport in going. dovvn we .. accident than was necessary. Finally he effected started for hotne and again as he had rnany titnes a cotnprotnise backed by my tnild secondings during the evening, Lev referred to the confi- that .as long as they would not go down alone, dential subject by asking Miss Beth if she re- that the girls, Ton1 and tnyself should 1nake one 1nen1bered a .year ago to-night. After escorting trip together. The other fellows had turned and the young hidies ho1ne, we went down to the left leaving us to get out of the rnuss as best we \Snowshoe's\ rooms, and as we lit our pipes could, we were perfectly satisfied. That was and prepared to put In a good visit tny curiosity the first titne we ever tnet Beth and her cousin overcatne 1ne and I asked hi1n to tell tne the May Morse. They arrived here from Ottavva story he 11ad touched upon so often, which seen1ed to fonn .a strong tie to a no inenviable · young lady. _._~ solemn look catne in his eyes, and his face had an expression foreign to its usual pleasantness, and a~ter silently gazing into , the grate a few 1ninutes he told tne the following: ''It is both a pleasant and a solemn story to tne. You retne1nber Totn McAllister, and what inti- tnate friends we were where we graduated up at the acaden1y? We were a bout as good friends as it is allowable for two of the satne sex. You know oiu class was the one after yours, and the fall after graduation Totn went into Hohne's law office and I entered the medical. Early in Noven1ber we fon11ed the \B. Y. Snowshoes,\ and fixed \lP these roon1s as they are at present. We were a jolly crowd and had so tne great old tilnes the first of the winter. The ice and the snow were fine and the slide was in good shape. The only drawback we had was in the rivalry of the older club and in their trying to outshine us. It was a year ago this afternoon Ton1. and 1nvself and two other ''medics'' went down to the \' slide to -try a nevv toboggan of Ton1's. · It was a present fro1n his tnother and was fitt;d up ele- gant! y. We beca1ne careless and through so111e fault of ours we ran into a toboggan two young ladies were pulling up completely, wrecking it. Of course we apoligized, looked cheap and all that. They took it very philosophically and said it could not have been helped. r_roln, in- that fall. I see you are stniling. Perhaps you think they acted improperly, flirted a little, etc. Perhaps the exacting chaperone vvould not approve, but I don't know what the hann was. In walking up we found out among otl1er things, that May's n1other and Totn's had exchanged calls. So we stretched a point and asstuned vve had been duly introduced. We took a good 1nany more than one slide and we had such a jolly time it was agreed to use Totn's toboggan all that evening. We walked home with the yqung ladies and explained to Mrs. Morse. She thanked tis very nicely and said she presun1ed the accident ~as the girls' fault and that we were lucky not to have been hurt. Those succeeding weeks were the happiest of n1y life. We were together nearly an the titne, skating, ice-boating' dancing, or son1.ething. I a1n afraid we spent a great deal too 1nuch of our titne at Morse's. I suppose such things are always so. They used to· tell each other about all we said and I atn 1norally certain we did about the san1e. Any- way Beth asked rne once if Ton1 thought any- thingofMay,and said that he had been saying no end of foolish things. Totn told tne that night that May asked hirn nearly the sa1ne question. About that thne the Riel rebellion broke out. We both belonged to the'' Q!1een's Own,\ which by the way, was the crack co1npany at the Ottawa review t~at year. It 1nay seen1 funny, but when an order catne one day for 100 men to be chosen frorn the company, and to leave

I' THE CONCORDIENSIS. that night for Winnipeg, nearly every tnan was anxious to go. Everything was war and glory. Out of about I 50 volunteers 100 were chosen by lot, atnong whom I was one. Totn was one of the craziest to go, but luck was against hin1. Even tnoney was offered by tnany in considera- ble sutns to substitute, but he could not be en- rolled. He can1e to tne and said he was bound to go and had decided to steal in and take his luck as to the result, hoping he would not be detected till far toward the Northwest. That night when we all went for a farewell slide, what a n1ockery it all seerned. The slide was nearly deserted. Every thought of the whole town was centered on those so soon to face death. After one silent trip we left and went hotne. vVe were to leave on the Grand Trunk at 2 A.M. I becatne conscious then how tnuch I thought of Beth, and it seemed that May and Tom were conscious of the sarne fact. No doubt we said lots of silly things about being true, and-don't smile Bertie, you will know how it is son1etime. Atnong other promises, they promised never to slide till we came back, and we made greater ones. Tom said it was so cold his eyes watered -they looked like tears to n1e. We left .at 2, and the whole to-vvn were at the depot to bid us God-speed. Three others beside Totn had stolen in, but they were not found out till we were nearly to Manitoba, and Captain Crawford admiring their pluck took the1n on. What war was we never knew till we marched over the ice and snow in the coldest weather. We were ordered to Batouche. Captain Crawford formed a scouting party and put Totn at the head. The half- breeds were sacking and massacreing the settlers who had not been able to get within the the lines. Tom's party covered thetnselves \\vith renown the first day, but that night they were a1nbushed and the whole party killed. After the half-breeds were driven back frotn Batouche we found the bodies about three n1iles up the trail frozen and ghastly. We buried the . poor fellows in the snow and returned to camp with heavy hearts, I can tell you. It seetned impossible to 1ne. Those eight of our company were the first killed in the rebellion and four of thetn were the poor fellows so anxious to go to th:e Northwest. That is about all of the story ~o far as May is concerned, except that she has never been to the slide since, and very seldotn goes out. Lately she has been ill. If I were a believer in such things I should say her heart was broken. She will soon be with poor T'otn if a change does not take place. There is Totn's picture over the other side and his name is ·the ·first on the list on the new monu111ent just put up in River park in honor of those poor fellows we left in the snows of the Northwest.\ As Lev soletnnly knocked the ashes out of his pipe, pulled down his toque and bade tne good night. I felt that silence was more fitting than anything I could utter. JoHN BuLL. EXCHANGES. The Amherst Student issues a tnidwinter nntnber. Aside of the well written editorials there is little in the Student of interest to the average exchange editor. The Lafayette presents a fine appearance, but can boast of little in the literary line. The poem \A Letter/., in the February number is hardly up to the standard of college poetry, for it has little or no point, is almost destitute of metre and displays anything but poetic imagina- tion. . '?• The Wz\lliams Fortnlg-ht excels in pretty, graceful verses, but the prose articles seetn written merely with the idea to fill up space. It seems queer that so interesting a paper as the Fortnight should lack support. The Cue, from the Albany Academy is one of our brightest exchanges. The holiday num- ber was especially good, and the whole paper is exceptionally free fron1 schoolboy sentitnent and . expre·ston. We hardly like the change frotn the Unz\ver- S'ity Magazz\ne to the Pe1znsylvanlan. The new paper n1ay suit the students whotn it repre- sents, better than the old one., but the subject tnatter of the Pennsylvanlan is certainly of less interest to an outsider than was that of the . magaztne.

TIIE CONCORDIENSIS. A Reminiscence of Dr. Nott. congregation had convened in the old church of Franklin and the services were about to com- . n1ence, a carriage stopped at the church door To the Sons of Old Union, the following an- and a gentle1nan and a lady decended and en- ecdotE; of \Old Prex\ will, without doubt, be • tered the church. They did not hesitate a n1oment acceptable. It was related to 1ne 1nany years but walked directly through the principal aisle ago by an old 1nan, a native and resident of Ash- to the tninisters pew where they seated thein- ford, ConneCticut, of which town the venerable selves and remained until the conclusion of the doctor was also a native ; for its truth I cannot · services. When the tninister decended from his be responsible, though I give it as I received it, pulpit and passed his own pew in going out, and as I subsequently learned, ~s other people · he bowed to the strangers without stopping to in that place had received it and accepted it as address thetn. He entered his O\Vn shaky and true. rattling old wagon and drove hotnewardse His The parents of Eliphalet were poor, and in dwelling was about a tnile frotn the church . .and early life he was apprenticed to a brick layer or was reached by a long, narrow, private lane · stone tnason. He had an elder brother Sa1nuel, which led to it frotn the public road. As he who was 1ninister of a Congregational church in turned to enter this lane he looked behind him. Franklin, in the satne state ; it so happened that and saw the stranger's carriage at no great dis- either the church or parsonage in that place re- tance behind hitn, and when he had reached his quired 1·epairs, and Eliphal~t's master was etn- 1 house he was surprised to see that the carriage ployed to tnake thetn. Dunng the progress of had entered the lane also. When he had ar- the ·work the young apprentice lived in his rived at the house, the strangers decended and brothers' fatnily, and how he enjoyed, for the approaching the clergytnan with extended hand first tin~e in his life, the privilege of having ac- said: \Why Satn, don't you know me?\ \I cess to what appe~red to hitn to be a large do not,\ said San1, \unless you are tny brother library ; every spare Ino1nent, especially during Eliphalet, and that I should not have guessed, the evenings, was devoted to reading, and San1- had you not called rne Satn, in your old familiar uel perceiving his brothers love for books, sue- tnanner.\ ceeded in purchasing his tilne, or otherwise ''I a1n indeed your brother Eliphalet, and liberating hitn fro1n his obligations to his 1naster, have cotne with n1y wife to spend a week vvith and conunenced at once to direct his studies. you.\ How long the two brothers remained together I ''Are you a preacher 'Liph?\ have foTgotten, probably four or five years, but ''I atn, but I have no church.\ at length sotne difficulty arose between thetn ''How is that?\ and Eliphalet left for parts unknovvn to shape \I a1n president of the new college at Schen- his own course through life. Satnuel heard trotn ectady in the state of New York.\ hhn occasionally through indirect sources, that During the week it was published in Franklin he was teaching and studying attentively, and and the neighboring towns that 'Liph Nott was at length that at the age of nineteen he had grad- to preach the next Sunday, ''And he did uated at Brown University. Long years pas- preach,\ said 1ny infonnant, \and I heard hitn; sed before he learned anything 1noTe of his the old church in Franklin \\V;;ts never so filled brother, except a rutnor that a young preacher before ; every sitting and every standing place natned Nott or Mott 'vas creating quite an ex- was occupied, and the wagons were driven up citen1ent in the state of New York. Postal to the door and windows and filled with people facilities existed in those days, but they were w~1o had con1e to hear hitn who was but a boy exceedingly unreliable ancl uncertain. when th~y last saw hhn, the old church never One Sunday, the year I have also forgotten, before nor afte:c had such an audience nor heard though it 1nust have been after r8o4, just as the such preaching.\

TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. ,Delay. An unfortunate ,tnistake, and pressure of busi- ness have delayed this issue. This is the only explanation we can n1ake, and asking our sub- scribers to bear with us, we will state that sometinze in the ditne future \\Ve intend to cotne out on titne.-· [EDs. GENERAL COLLEGE NEVIS. YALE-A site for the new gymnasiutn has been selected, and the subscription fund is rapidly reaching $roo,ooo. The U niver- sity crevv will be cotnposed altnost entirely of new rnen. Interest in track athlethics re- VIVIng~ Much indignation is fel,t over the . appearance of an article on Yale in the N. r. World, Jan. 24. It see1ns the article was a series of fabrications and exaggerations frotn be- ginning to end. It is not known who wrote the article. The last copies of that day's World sold in Nevv York for twenty-five cents apiece. CoRNELL.-A fevv infidels and free-thinkers will opose the establishtnent of a chair of n1oral philosophy and ethics, for which Hon. H. W. Sage gave $Go,ooo, on the ground that as a state ~nd secular institution the college has no right to teach such branches. Recitations have been 1nade optional for the present. Gynl- nasium practice is made cornpulsory for the two lower classes, duTing the winter ten-n. MrscELLANEous.-W elleslev has received a o/ bequest of$roo,ooofor building a College of Arts. ---The annual H bowl figh\ at the Univer- sity .of Pennsylvania, took place on January 29. Lasell Se1ninary has\ two nevv lecture cours.es, in law and in cooking.. Phillips Exeter Acadetny received $4-o,ooo fron1 the es- tate of the late Francis A. Parker, of Boston. ---The '~ Mikado\ seetns to be very popu- lar with college glee clubs. Stevens wants its na1ne changed to ·'The New Jersey Institute of Technology.\ The Fresl1n1an class at Oxford is said to nurnber 6ro; that at Catn- bridge, 865. Princeton has fanned a dra- tnatic Association. Lynch, of the Metropolitans, is coaching the nine. A1nherst intends . to build a toboggan slide. T'he S()photnores are about to build a college fence to roost upon, a la Yale. For twenty-five years An1.herst has kept statistics of physical measuretnents of evety one of its students. Till within eight years no other· statistical work of this kind has been undettaken in this country, outside of the army and navy. The University of Pennsylvania has 3,ooo graduates in Arts and Sciences.; r ,sao in Law, and I z,ooo in Medicine. Professor Tho1npson is lecturing at Yale on \Protection.\ It is l~e­ ported that tne university has received $6o,ooo for the investigation of s.piritualiEin. Penn- sylvanian students will hold a State Intercol- legiate Athletic meeting in the spring, probably , at Philadelphia. Donations to Oberlin for r885, atnounted to $8o,ooo. Matthew Arnold has accepted the professorship of poetry, in the University of Oxford. At Oxford, classics may be got rid of before entering the university, leaving the student free to specialize. President Holden, of the University of California, receives a salary of $8,ooo, larger by a thous.and or two, than that of any other college president in the country. Phillips Exeter Acadeiny has pre- pared 5 ,ooo students for college. A new feature in scoring will probably be adopted by the Inter- col1egiate League this year, which is to credit each 1nan with the sacrifice hits he 1nakes .. Brown and yellow have been proposed as col- . lege colors for Lehigh. The average salary of a college professor in the United States is $r ~530.; Outre Mer. The cloud-ship sailed in a burnished sky,. The shadows spread on the lea, With a farewell smile To the earth, the while, The sun sank into the sea. · He seemed to pause at the ocean's brink As if he were loth to go, He kisses the lips Of the sea, and slips Down to the lands below. He little knew of the kiss I threw, vVhere the restless ripples curled; But he took 1ny kisR To the lips I rniss On the other side of the world. -[Record.

TIIE CONCORDIENSIS. HELP THOSE WHO HELP US! TRADE WITH THOSE WHO HELP SUPPORT YOUR· COLLEGE PAPER. SPORTSMAN'S CAFORAL. The latest, a?td becoming very jojula r. .ftfarnifactur- ed by special request. A deliciou\ blend of choice Turkish a1zd Virginia. The following are our well known Standard Brands: SWEET CAPORAL. CAPORAL. CAPORAL ~, ST. J.A.MES ~, ST. JAMES, AMBAssADoR, ENTRE Nous, SPORT. Ki11ney Bros. Straight Cut, Full Dress Cigarettes. Our Cigarettes are made from the finest selected Tobaccos, thoroughly cured, and French Rice Pa- per, are rolled by the highest class of skilled labor, and warranted free from flavoring or impurities, Every genuine Cigarette bears a FAC-SIMILE of KINNEY Btws. Signature. KI1VNEY TOBACCO CO., (Successors to Kinney Bros.) ~\i\7\ yo:e.x. ROBERT T. MOIR, (Successor to John T. Gilmour,) DEALER m ·BOOKS, STATIONERY A~D PAPER HANGINGS, 20[ State a'Jtd I Ib Centre Sts., Schenectady, N. r. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Transatlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Boots, Shoes and R~ubbers, 142 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. R .. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. Diillomas, Views, Poi~traits, Wedding and College lnvz'tatz'orts, Cards, Monognnns, etc. ORIGINAL DESIGNS WHEN DESIRED. *A~r~CARD~Y:TO~Y:CIGARETTE~Y:SMOKERS. +- Owing to the persistent attetnpt of nutnerous cigarette 1n.anufacturers to copy in part the brand na1n'e of the '' Richmond Straight Cut \ now in the eleventh year of their popularity, we think it alike due to the protection of the consurner and ourselves, to warn the public against base itnita- tions, and call their attention to the fact the origi- nal Straight Cut Brand is the Richtnond Straight Cut, No. I, introduced by us in I 87 5, and to caution the students to observe that our signa- ture appears on every package of the genuine Straight Cut Cigarettes. ALLEN & GINTER. Richmond, Va. . JOHN 1~. JOHNSON. JOHN <9. ~OHNSON, -THE- POPULAR CLOTHIER 35 :tv.t:aid.en Lane., Next Door to t!te 1Vi1ldsor. ALBANY, N. Y.

'ri-lE C()NCORDIENSIS. WI I .. SON DAVIS, Merchant ~(, Tailor, I I 5 State Street, Schenectady, N .. Y. DR. 0. J. GROSS, _,~DEN IST:T,·~ 235~ STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. WOOD BROS., MENS' } 1 URNISHINGS, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS, CUFFS. Goons RECEIVED FOR TROY LAUNDRY. 133 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GEORGE E. VINCENT', 10 W_A~-~--~TREET. Schenectady Steam Latlndry. Work done at the following low rates: Collars and Cuffs, 2c. ea<;h: Undershirts, 8c. each; Shirts, I27~c. each; Soc~<s, 4c. each. All other work in like proporti0n. THOMAS ODY, PROPRIETOR. Washi1zg, $s.oo, per Ternz, i1zcludiug rf'pairhzg. C VAN SLYCK, • DEALER IN FLOUR, GOAL, SA WED & SPLIT WOOD, Lime, :Calcined Plaster, Cen1ent & Hay, 57 CENTRE a-;ul 7 PINE Sts., Scheuectady, N. r. CONRAD GCETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, 85 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. :Y~ ~Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. J. H. BARHYTE, DEALER IN GE]\TlFS' NU~NISJil]\IG G88DS BOOKS AND STATIONERY, AND MANUFACTURER OF ANCIENI' CITY SHIRT, Myers' Block, Schenectady, N. Y. oo3 STATE STREET. ~ W. T. HANSON & CO., DRUGGISTS AND APOTHECARIES, FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OP HANSON'S MAGIO OORN SALVE. 203 State Sche;zectady, N. r. TOILET ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. Paper Hangings a1zd Decorations. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. ROOMS P .APBRED AT SHORT NOTIOB. r I I State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. DINNERS, SUPPERS, AND LUNCHES FURNISHED AT SHORT NOTICE. ICE .CREAM ALliVAYS ON HAND. REEVES' RESTAURANT. 67 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

Merchant :'{; Tailor, -:~-DEN IS T T;·~- .. \ '1'1' .. , . ..: . .;.::: '·: ~I. ·. ~ .. SCIIE:\E(.T:\I>Y. ::.J. Y. ~II I 1\TS, \\I• \I\'\! I \<'Tl 1-:11.: !ll , \ ~ ( . I I·: ~ ·1· ( . I . I . \. S l I I J{ , I .. ~I\·crs' HJt,l'k, Schci1L'CLtdy, ~. \r. •)()\> ST.\TE STRI·:ET. .......... p) lJI<l·(;(;ISTS .. -\:\1) .\P<>TIIE<'.\RIES, F !. \ ·~:· ( . I r , . ·I N. \ . l . \ I 'I:· ( . I, 1 I. T r PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. -'''· .\/,,/, ,<...,,J;,J/11/(ttl\'. .\·. ;·. f() \\'.\LL s·rRELT. ~<~hPllP(dta(ly StPatll IAtltndry. • • ' • • I 1 • -· \\',IlL_ o!<>tl<: .11 the j,.J]<l\\ Ill-! 1•<\\ !'.I!C< ( .,JJ.I!~ Ill•• ( 1!\1', '~ • t-• .ll_ ! 1 ' I lldt hlll! ''· -.·. ···\' j,. \iiiii~. I.· •' . c,,,, 1 1: :--. )\ J .• ~. 1'' (\ ·•' .I. \\Ill i, ill ltf.t• )>1\) 1 \111• •II. \ ll • •t lw 1 FLOUR~ COAL, SA WED & SPLIT WOOD, J II. lL\RIIYTI·~. I' • l•F\IEI:I\- /' 1 !f• )' ffllll.!.,'/11:.,'' tfi!J j), 'tl)'((/lOI/S. .\ 1-'li.L Ll'\1·~ <ll-' t..'<>LLL<;F TF\.·r I~<H>K~. ROOMS PAPF.RED AT SHORT NOTICE. I 11 ~LttL' Strt·ct, SchcnL·ctady, ::\. Y. I ) I :'\ ~ I·: 1\ s . Fl l'\\l~lli:l> .\T ~li<>I'T :'\C>'l'll'L. !Cl:. CA) 1:·. 1.11 .I r l I'. I } ·.\· ( >. \. II.·L\.JJ. REEVES' RESTAURANT~ (,j ~t:ltt· Strt·l·t. SchcnLTLHly, -:\. \'. .,



'I 0. E. WENDELL.& CO. PIANOS, OR·GANS, MU·SIO. FULL STOCK AT LOWEST PRICES I 89 AND 91 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N. Y. CATARRH CURED. A clergyman. after years of suffering from that loathesome d·isease, Catarrh, and vainly trying every known remedy, at last sound a prescription which com- pletely cured and saved him from death. Any sufferer fro.m this dreadful disease sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to Dr. Flynn, II7 East 15th St., New York, will receive the recipe free of charge. /J(jJ\\ Mention tltls paper. MIXTURES FOR .Pipe or O.i.ga:rette. THREE KINGS, Turldsk, Pert\que or Vlrglnla. MELLO ·W MIXTURE, Turk-ish and Pert'que. TURKISH and VIRGINIA. PERI~_[JE and VIRGINIA. GENUINE TURKISH. FLAKE CuTs EsPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE PIPE. VANITY FAIR. OLD GOLD. Fragrant Vanity J?az'r, Superlative and Cloth of Gold Cig-arettes ALWAYS FRESH, CLEAN AND SWEET. Our Cigarettes were never so fine as now; they can- not be surpassed for purity and excellence. Only the purest rice paper used. WM S. KIMBALL & CO., Rochester, N. Y. REMOVAL! L. FELDJY.IAN, -CUSTOM TAILOR- 70 7ay St., (opp. JJr. Faust,) Schenectady, .N. r. The place where a perfect fit is guaranteed. Two hundred of the latest styles of samples just received from New York. Call and examine them. Repairing, cleaning and alterations of all kinds promptly, neatly and cheaply done . .ANDREW T. VEEDER, Wholesale & Retail Druggist, 141 STATE SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Largest Store in town, and Finest Assortment of Toilet Articles.

E. :a. ..6.. 'J:'X::Z:NSON., AN T~ST ~Nn F>FI <9Te.>~ N~F>PIB1N, NOW LOCATED AT 2 57 AND ast; STATE ST., SCHENECTADr, N. r., Has been the Class Photographer to the following insHtutions: Cornell, R. P. I., Williams (twice), Columbia (twice), Stev~n.s and Wesleyan and .several other no·ted institutions. ,~Students are welcome. F. D. HUBER, REESE & HARTLEY, DEALER IN DEALERS IN E oats and S.hoes .. CHOICEGROCERIES&PROVISIONS --HANAN & SONS'-- GENTS' FINE SHOES A SPECIALTY. Also, Custom Work and Repairing. I I2 State St., Schenectady, next to Walker tf: Maz'rs. J(ING, ((THE\ TAILOR, No. I02 State St., Scltenectady, N. r. FULL DRESS SUITS TO LET. AT THE City Boot and Shoe .Store Is the place to find the celebrated 'Joknston & Murphy, Sam'l GO!tz, J. & H.. Fitzpatrick 3-::El::tN':t'S\ ::r::\::t:N:EI S::S:O:ElS~ 267 STATE STREET. JOHN G. SCHUMACHER. The largest and most complete assortment of Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes, Pipes, etc., IN THE CITY. . CORNER OF UNION AND ROMEYN STREETS. L. T. CLUTE, FASHIONABLE HATTER. Agent for Dunlap and Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Gaps, Trunks, Bags, etc., in the city. No. IOI State Street, Sckenecta~y., N. Y. A. BROWN & SON, Established 182~. Upholsterers * and * Fnrnitnre * Dealers, r 54 STATE ST., SCHENECTADT, N. r. L. A. YOUNG, Pianos, Organs and Musical Merchandise GENERALLY. .Domestic atzd other Fa1nily Sewing lllachines.. 166 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N .. Y. JOSEPH GILLOTT'S STEEL PENS. IHE FAYGRITE NUMBERS. 303.404. 332,351,170_. AND.HISOiliER S1Y1ES SOLD BY ALL DEALERS TKROUG90ut'IH!. WORLD. BOLTZMANN & FITZMAURICE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL @UOJDHIE~S ~ AND~ ffiE~GHANTJ.l ~ <9AIUO~S. 77 AND 79 STATE ST., Cor. FERRY, SCHENEC1~DY, N. Y.

