, 1 , ·r _u_r n n_ lt n_ n_ n n_ I __ [ __ lt ru~~: ~~ ~= \WC5B~~X. 'J\ AN'\CT A~Y, :l.S_se. No. :3. :t - I II L 0 u 11 u u liD I [ 11 0 I 0 I • I CONTENTS • I . l • I I PAGE PAGE, ' i EDITORIAL: I Dynamite and Its Uses, 27 .. • - . I Base Ball, 25 Tobogganing, 28 I - .. - .. - - - - - - - .. I Senate Examination, - .. • - . 25 Civil Service versus Spoils System, - .. 29 Literary Society Libraries, .. ... • 25 Elizabethan Drama, .. - - 30 . I New Resolutions, .. .. .. . .. . 26 Tramping in the Helderbergs, - - .. 31 Marking Syste~m, .. - . .. • 26 LocAL, .. ... - .. a - - . 32 Out Excuse, .- - - - - .. - 26 PERSON AJ.S, ... .. . .. .. . 34 LITERARY: CLIPPINGS, - .. .. ... ... . 35 Homer's Farewell to the Delian Girls, .. 27 GENERAL CoLLEGE NEws, .. - - . 36

.t. + UNION COLLEGE, SCHE.NE~CTADY, N.Y. HoN. Juoso~ S. LANDON, President ad ·interhn. t. CLASSICAL CouRsE.-The Classical Cour.seis th~ usual baecalaureate course of .American colleges. Students may be ,permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. SciENTIFIC CoaRSE;-ln the Scientific Course the mooeril ·languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies is increased. '1· ScHOOL oF CIVIL -ENGJNERRING.-The student in this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course ·of instruction, in its col.l~c i on ·of m~dels, instruments Jlnd books, the accumul'ations of many years .by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusual facilities for ac- qumng a practlcal knowledge ofmstrumental field work. 1-· EcLECTI~ C?URS~.-An Ecle<?tic Course, co~sistix1g of studies s~lected a~ pleasu~e from the .J?recedin~ cours~s, may be taken by any one who, upon exammatto~, 1s found quahfied t<;> pursue. tt On the completion ?f thts a. certtficate of attamment w1U .be gtv.en.. • . There are also spectal courses m Analyt1c Chemtstry, Metallurgy and Natural Htstory. 'For cata:l_ogpes or for spectalmfermat10n address CADY STALEY, DKAN OJI' 'l'HR FACULTY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE.- Term commences first Tuesday in September and continues twenty weeks. \'The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures, ~pecial opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. EXPENSEs.-Matriculation fee, $.5; term fee, $10o; perpetual ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25: dissecting fee, $~; fee for laboratory course, $1o; histological course, $xo. For circulars address WILLl:S G. TUCKER, M.D., REGlSTRAJt, ALBANY, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THI£ ALBANY LAw ScnooL.-The course of instruction consists of three terms: the first commencing September 5, the second November ~s, and the third March 6; each term consisting of twelve weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are. as great as can be found any- where. The Law Library of the State is open to students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition, $so each term, in advance; $130 for full year, in advance. For information address PROF. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D .. ALBANY, N.Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This department of the University is located at Albany J and is devoted especially t0 Astronoinf and Meteorology. For information address PROF, LEWIS BOSS, ALBANY, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALBANY, N. Y.-For information apply to PROP'. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D. W. & L. E. GURLEY, .NOTMAN Civil Engineers' & Surveyors' Instruments f?HOrrtOG~AF>HIG MANUFACTURERS OF @o., TROY, N.Y. Dealers in Drawing Instruments of every description, Sheet and Roller Drawing Paper, Engineers' and Surveyors' Transits, etc., etc. 48 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBAN2 ... REDUCED RATES TO STUDENT'S. ~ College Vie'Ws anti Faculty Pictures J:ept ,·~e Stoch. I \ I ( '

1 \ I -1<.. -<; ._, . ~ .) '> ~ ' .. I- :.(; ' .L r~ -;-!- 't • ..... . . ..\ -~ ' . : .-.{. ,, ,, .' .! 0 . . . -....' / . . . . ~' ,. 'filE CO~COIZDIEXSIS. A GOOD PRINTER IS KNOWN BY HIS WORK. (· ARTISTIC 45 LIBERTY STREET, SCI.!J:E~ECT..AD\Y~ ~- \\'T. DENTIST, ( ) F F I<.' 1·: .\ '\; I > R F :-.. I I> 1·: :\' (' r: : AND R 'E \ v :\I c l\1 u I .. L E :\' ll.E.\I.EI{ I\\ I . I • >f. :; - ----~--.:;;,.,:..;=- ···-·- _'j T I·: N yr I r R E ( ; I :\ r I~ :'\ ·1· Jl IIJI'r;\llY 1~. ~\I) &~ () HC III~:~rrH. \. 1.\ :· OLD FASHIONED ~10LASSES CANDY F u R J:::(l'\\ I S :a: :C :0 ..... I .:\:'\D FJ:-:E 1~():\BO:\S. I ' .' I :t. ·~· ' J' {. : .LVo. 35 i\r<'rtlz l)t'drl .)'trt'£'1, .·11/Jclll)'- ... \~. }T.

THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. ~ A GOOD PRINTER IS KNOWN BY HIS WOR~---~ ARTISTIC PH INTER. @/ 45 LIBERTY STREET, ~~ @ ~-s_c~~-~:EC?~-:=:o-=-~~--=~----~-_® __ : __ F. DEF. GRAY, DENTIST, OFFICE AND RESIDENCE : (Late with GURNEY of New York,) No. 47 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. SJJECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS. A_ NDREW McMULLEN, FOBTE..A..:CTS. . I5 and 17 North Pearl Street, Albany, N. :V. Coal and Wood, Kindling Wood TENTH REGIMENT DEALER IN I AND FIRE KINDLINGS, 92 a1zd 94 Union & 8, 9 and IO .Dock St., Schenectady. ~IILJTARY BAND & ORCHESTRA . HUYLER'S OLD FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY AND FINE BONBONS, No. 35 North Pearl S'treet, Albany. 1V. Y. (Branch of 863 Broadway, New York.) I!· DeKLYN, :Jr., Ma11ager. .EST..A.BLISHED IN I858. Tlte Fbzest Musical Orgmtizatimt in. the State, composed e1ttirely ------- --- ------- -----·-- of Professional Mttsi'cians o.f acknowledged ability. For Colleg-e Commencements, Concerts, Recejti'ons, Weddi?igs, Ser- enades, Balls, Parades, or any occasion w!zere the ser- vices of .Fz\rst-class Musicians are required. Address, JOl-IN L. GARTLAND, Leader & Director, HEADQUARTERS AND OFFICE, 504 B'dway, 4 Doors Nortk of JI!Iaiden Lane, Alba1zy.

THE CONCORDIENSfS. BROKAW MFG. CO., NEWBURG, N.Y. \R E L I A B L E\ No. 14. No. H. C. ASK RETAILERS FOR T::S:E~- BARNEY & BERRY'S Roller Skate for Racing & Fancy Skating. SizEs, 8, 8~, 9, 9~, ro, ro~, II, nYz INCHES. Price, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Wheels, - $9 oo Price, Polished & Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals & Wheels, I2 oo Price, Polished and Nickeled, with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels, Frames, Foot Plates and Clamps Engraved, and Name of purchaser engraved on Frames, - xs oo All rolling parts of the above weeds and journals l:!.:r(! of st«:!el, case hardened. each truck consisting of 36 rolls, 7,1 inch in diameter, making a total of I44 rolls to a set. Testimonials as to the speed and durability of this Bearing have been received from the leading skaters. PoRT ]EHVIs, N. Y., June 27th, I88s. BARNEY & BERRY, Springfield, Mass. GENTLEMEN:-The new skates with Roller Bearing Journals and Wheels received; find them the fastest I have had yet. I can say your skates are superior to all others, having given them a good trial m long and short races. They are the lightest in weight, fastest in speed, and more durable than all others. WM. M. BoRST, Six day Roller Skater. RoLLER SKATING RECORD.-First Six Days' Race, I04-5 miles. Sec- ond Six Days' Race, II48 miles. A. M. FOWERS, 265 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. TH ·IS PAPER is on :file in Philadelphia . ·. .at the Newspaper Adver- ..._. · tising Agency of Messrs. N. w. AVER & SON, our authorized agent&. STATIONERY AND ENGRAVING DE- PARTMENT. ENGRAVED INVITATIONS For Com,tnencetnent and Class Day Celebrations, Class Receptions and Social Gatherings. STEEL PLATE WORK FOR FRATERNITY USES. Dance, Menu a1zd Exercise· Programmes, Clas:s .Dz'es, Crests, .#Ionograms, Fraternity Stationery, &c., &c. G::ElO. B. LOOE:'\OOD & SON, Pu~li'shers, Booksellers, Stationers and Engravers, 8I2 BROADWAY, NEw YoRK. fl.?ir Our aame is a guarantee for the correctness and refinement of our various prod1.1ctwns.

VOL, IX. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 25, 1886. NO. 3· THE CONC;ORDIENSIS PUBLISHD MONTHLY BY THE STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. :eO~D O::E\\' EDJ;TO::EX.S. F. s. RANDALL, '86, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. E. s. c. H.\RRIS, '86, } T. R .. WooDBRIDGE, '86, AssociATES F. X. RANSDELL, '87' c. F. BRIDGE, '87, H. c. MANDEVILLE, '88,} F. D. LEWIS, '88, J. H. HANSON' '89, LITERARY PERSONAL LocAL I. P. JoHNSON, '87, BusiNEss EDITOR. TERMS, $r.so PER Yu:AR, IN AnvANcE. We clesire oztr friends to seJZd us conth'b1ttions, items · of z'1zterest and bJ(ormatimz concernz'ng Al'ltmni. All bztsi1zess letters should be addressed to the Bttsi- tzess Editor, Box 96o, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Posto[lice, Sc he?Zectady, N, Y., tt-s second-class matter. ---------- -----~~------------ PRINTED BY CHAS. BURROWS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -------- -- -- ---------=--------=-=------- EDITORIAL. T HE base ball association to whici:· Union be- longs, tneets in convention at Syracuse on the 29th. The schedule for the cotning season will be rnade out, and other necessary measures will probably be taken; While it is the duty of the delegates, in convention assetnbled, to trans- aCt all business, and to introduce ali tneasures, there is no hann in tnaking a suggestion right here. That is, to tnake sotne provision for a case sitni1ar to -the backing-out of Rochester last year after taking their trip and receiving their fifty dollars to pay expenses frotn the different colleges with whorn they played. Perhaps to cotnpel Rochester to pay what is due the several nines before entering the association again would be unfair, but what we advocate is tneasures to prevent any nine frotn doing the satne thing in the con1.ing season. W E think the Seniors are justified in finding fault with the examination in parlian1entary rules that was itnposed upon them. In the first place it has been custotnary to have this exatni- nation at the end of the secona tenn. Then again, it see:rns that a special endeavor was tnade to select all . the fine points of the rules for the exan1ination. This appears all the n1ore out of the way when we consider that tl~e rnetnber of the faculty, who aCts as instruCtor in this depart- tnent has not shown hitnself equal to such an ex- anlination, and that he was understood by the class when he annoutlced the exatnination to say that it would be of an entirely different character than what it turned out to be. Again, it seetns to us, to be hardly right to have the class spend an hour a week in the Senate and then have those who had not taken any interest in the \vork during the the tenn, by a streak of luck, in an exatnination which in extretnely fevy particulars contained anything bearing upon the vvork done during the tenn, obtain the highest standings. If it is the desire of the professor in charge to becotne fatniliar with the fine points in parlia- tnentary praCtice we think arrangetnents could be made for recitations once a week in Roberts' Rules of Order. T HE Literary societies here possess two large, and to a certain extent, quite valuable libra- ries, yet they are, at the n1ost, used but very little. It has been suggested that they should be cotnbined with that of the college. Such a course would at least tnake then1 available to a larger nutnber of students, besides securing their preservation, and we think tt;at it would be 1nore convenient for the me1nbers of the two societies thetnselves. We are infonT1ed that such action has been taken in a ntnnber of other colleges with success. We would like to have our socie- ties consider this 1natter.

., z6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. T H~ new resolutions rnad.e by the Faculty are, wtthout doubt, benefictal to both students and professors. Too often have men left college in the latter part of the course on account of ac- cumulated conditions. When these conditions must be made up within a short period of tin1.e it cotnpels the student either to drop back one year or to keep his work up. So when Senior year cotnes round he is spared the trernendous task of making up three years conditions in one, . and is thus en~ouraged to tnake the most .of his · last year. dent to find hirn 1narked below a student of much less ability and industry because the latter has . successfully cribbed in the recitations and exami- nations, and on the other hand it is equally as co1nmon for a really able student who, at the end • of the tern1, has a thoro·ugh knowledge of the subject pursued, to stand much 1ovver than an almost stupid fellow who has the constitution to spend hours in getting up daily recitations. W ITHOUT regard to the 1nerit or detnedt ~ of the tnarking syste1n when itnpartially . followed, 've wish to call attention to the n1any defects of the system, as praB:iced in thi& college, and the need of refonn in this particular. In the first place an observer notices that no two 1nembers of the faculty tnark alike, which would tend to show in itself that tnost of the faculty are not just in their n1arking. Again it · is a prominent faCt that the tnarks in some de- . partments, then as a whole, are higher than those in others, so that the student that takes one class of studies has a great advantage over those who take another class, in the contest for honors at the end of the course. Next to consider particular instances, we have here one professor who seetns to totally disre- gard the work done by the student. One in- stance foo·cibly illustrates the charaB:et of his marking. Not long ago a student took a sub- jeCt one tenn and then dropped it, but the class continued for another tern1. When this student received his repot·t for the second tern1 he found his highest mark was on a subjeCt he hadn't taken at all. Another professor makes his marks depend on the amount of flattery and taffy that is bestowed upon him, while still another v\Till raise or lower a student's mark in. proportion to the an1ount of abuse that he receives. G In another department any atnount of good work will not overcotne the effeCt of a bolt. Bow ever, the defects of this syste1n here do not depend entirely upon the faculty. It is a cotn- mon occurrence for a hard-working, honest stu- In the face of these fads it is almost ridiculous to claitn that the marks give a fair expression of the ability of the student, and yet upon these marks depend scholarship and the stage honors at commencement. There should be sotne Temedy for this state of affairs and it should be applied imtnediately. W E suppose that rnany tender epithets have . been showered upon us at the non-appear- ance of our Decetnber nun1ber, but please to spare your fault finding till you locate a worthier victitn. Don't pick on a poor, distra&od col- lege editor; for if there ever was a man, wor- thy of the most honeyed expressions, and most pitying cotntniseration, you will find hin1 seated, with blue fingers, in the cheerless sancru1n of the CoNCORDIENSIS, tr~ying to elicit some little warmth from a stove, which has not seen a fire for many a day, except on occasional hnpromptu affairs built frotn old exchanges, so dry that they burn like tinder. And we think the economi- cally minded student would forgive us this ex- travagance, did he reflect on the little cotnfort which lightens an' editor's journey in the thirsty pursuit of knowledge. So please don't grumble at u~.. Though we are just conceited enough to hold that we render the best possible services in consideration of the retnuneration received; never more than a poor, wea.k joke at the thought of such fellow's presurning to edit a college jour- nal, though it was not an office of our own seeking, but one which our respective classes pressed upon us; and, indeed, their appreciation of our ability was so great, that they would not even listen to our declin.ing a berth in the sink- ing ship. But we are not a sinking ship by any means; we have only laid up for repairs, and ; \ -· . ! ' ~I

; \ -· THE CONCORDIENSIS. now that they have been obtained we shall en- deavor to pursue the even tenor of our way. The real, hard faCt is that just one-twentieth of our suhscription list has thus far handed in the need- ful. So, if you have received n·o Dceetnber nun'l- ber, don't grutnb-le at all unless you belong to that honorable twentieth, and if you do belong to this noble, righteous band, don't grun1ble at us, but rather at your fellow subscribers, the nineteen-twentieth who have forgotten to • renut. The work of the 'Literary Editors of the present LITERARY. \ Homer's Farewell to the Delian Girls.\ A TRANSLATION BY PROF. TAYLOR LEWIS. (From \ Notes \ of a former student.) '·'And now farewell to all of you! Yet still in other days Remember tne when next shall con~e some roatner of the earth; Sotne wandering, much-enduring bard, one who, per- chance may ask, 'Who is it, girls, that sweetest sings of all the minstrel race That hither come, and who is he in whom ye most vohune is worthy of the highest cotntnendation, and it has been successful in a 1neasure warrant- ing a tnore substantial appreciation. delight?' · Then promptly answer every one, with kindly voice and smile, ; 'A blind old man it is who dwells in Chio's rocky The Business Editor has also done so1ne work with indifferent success (with a n1ost euphelnis- tic rendering of the word indifferent) . Yet it ' is really more than can be expeCted that one rnan : should dun son1e three hundred and fifty men · without seriously neglec-ting his college work. On the other hand, if subscribers do not pay up protnptl y the business editor does not feel like taking the responsibility of issuing a number for which there is no certain tneans of p.aying the printer's bill. Many of our subscribers, when asked to pay, deny their having ordered the paper. But in a college paper we are obliged to use the sarne list as was used the year before~ and unless sub- scriptions are discontinued, they are transferred fro1n one year's list to the next. If you do not wish the CoNCORDIENSIS sirnply refuse to take it fro1n the post office and we are notified of the faB:, but by continuing to take it you acknowledge yourself as a subscriber. So, if those who receive this ntunber~ who have not already done so, will retnit their sub- scription at their eaTliest convenience or discon- tinue the paper, they \vill confer a great favor on those who are striving to edit the little sheet which now so unworthily represents its great ahna tnater in a creditable 1nanner. So we ask your pardon for thiR see1ning negleCt on our part, and hope you all will overlook the cnnission of one of our nu111bers. BusiNESS EDITOR. isle.' '' -Thucydides extra from Hymn to Apollo, chanted by l-Iomer at Delz'an Festival. It Dynamite and its Uses. The train was quite full when I boarded it at Albany, but I had the good luck to find an empty seat before I had ~ooked through the first car. As I sat down I noticed in front of n1e a figure that seem.ed fatniiiar, and a rnoment latter recog- 'nized Allen Shepard, an old acquaintance and former chum in a boarding school. Shepai-d was in business somewhere down along the Hudson, and, like myself, had started for home to spend the holidays. We had no 1nore than shaken hands and exchanged greetings when tne noticed a thin, shabby-genteel-CoL-Sellers-per- sonage co1ning down the aisle, apparent! y look- ing for a seat. Now, the only vacant places in the car were beside Shepard and myself, so it was evident that one of us must take him in. He settled on Shepard, however, and depositing his grip on the floor sat down with a self-satis- fied sn1ile. Fot a while Shepard and I kept up conversa- tion and the thin-Col.-Sellers-gentletnan listened, evidently much interested in all that was said. This annoyed Shepard, and he soon relapsed into silence and began to study his time-table. The Colonel was just as 1nuch interested in the titne-table as he had been in our conversation, and looking over Shepard's shoulder began to read aloqd the stations.

28 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ''Syracuse, Jordan, Weedsport, Port Byron, • Clyde-I get off at Clyde,\ said the Colonel. \0 you do !\ said Shepard, \well that's ' nice. Hope you will enjoy yourself.\ Shepard said this with the same tnalicious twinkle in his eye that I had often noticed, years ago in schooL The Colonel hardly knew what to say, so he just indulged in· a particularly joy- ous sn1ile, and then began to look as if he knew · he had hurt son1e one's feelings and was anxious to make up for it. For twenty tninutes or so we rode along without speaking, and then Shep- ard produced his \World\ fron1 an inside pocket and began to read. This just suited the Colonel ; he had 'nt seen a paper that morning, and here was a chance to get his news cheap. So he read along for quite a while without even \vinking or resting his neck. I say resting his less confidence in his knowledge of the subject ; '' Well, you ain't afraid of it, are you?\ '' Great guns, 1~0! '' Sh~pard replied; ''We throw it .around like so rnuch brick. Why, I've got so1ne right here in tny satchel. Shall I show you son1e ? \ '' Do, hey? 0, ho! Got son1e right here, have ye? No! no! don't take it out! You don't suppose-of course not, no danger,\ and the Colonel rnoved uneasily in his seat. \ Say, I guess I'll go in the sn1oker and take a sn1oke. Sorry tny case has only one in it,'' tapping his upper vest pocket significantly, and with a sickly, scared stnile he picked up his grip and tip-toed out of the car, as if he was walking on eggs at forty cents a dozen. ''Well, I 've got dd of hin1, if I did have to lie,\ said Shepard. · neck because he stretched that connective organ so in endeavoring to get a good squar~ view of Tobogganing. the paper, that I think it tnust have ached all . ADOWN the slippery chute we glide the rest of the day, Finally he re1narked: On tny toboggan. 'Tis with pride I sit behind her here and guide ''Wonderful invention, those dynamite torpe- · My speedy rao=-r. does.\ \Yes said Shepard. \Tell ye we · Away we rush, a8 swift as sound, don't need any iron-clads to proteCt us while And as we reach the level ground we've got thetn,\ the Colonel continued. She turns her dainty self around, ''What eleCtricity and dynatnite can't do we And so I face her. needn't ask done. Now, there's electricity, powerful, n1ajestic and destruCtive, when ·dis- played in the clouds ; just as powerful, but hannless as a kitten, when harnessed bv man. . ~ Then there's dynarnite, (here Shepard, who had looked resigned to a hard death till now, began to brighten up a little and listen to the leCture), terribly destruCtive in the hands of the ignorant and tnalicious, but when intelligently applied, 1nore serviceable and powerful than Aladin's genie. Now, some people are afraid to handle it,\ he rattled on, \but there ain't no danger whatever if you ate stiddy and don't loose your head. Ever seen any of it?\ \Well yes,\ said Shepard, smiling happily, \ now you're striking rne where I'm at home. I'm engaged in the manufaCture ot dynarnite cartridges over here in Massachusetts. We furnish cartridges for blasting oil wells and all such work.\ ,, 'Po,, hey?\ sa_iq. th~ (;glonel, apparently with_ Her cheeks are t·ed, her eyes are bright, She's fairest of then1 all to-night, And as a proof of her delight She sweetly s1niles. I wish we might go on just so And didn't have to stop below, I'm sure I'd be content to go This way for miles. But every slide must have an end, We reach the bottom, where I lend My arm, and as we re-ascend She says, demurely: \I had a chance to ride with Hugh, But then I couldn't, for I knew That if I stood and waited, you Would a.sk me surely.'' With what a joyous thrill I start! The shaft has reached my very heart, And now, transfixed by Ct1pid's dart, And growing bolder, I make report, and she. adopts It, every word ; for when it ~tops Her head in affirmation drops Upon my shoulder.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Civil Service Reform Versus the Spoils System .. It is said by those favoring the spoils system that, in a republican government, one man should not hold office for life, but should give place after awhile to others, that they too may in turn enjoy the sweets of a public position. But is this a patriotic view to take of the matter? Does it not indicate that the office is rather to benefit the man than the n1an the office? Where matters of policy are concerned, a change of policy necessitates a change of the 1nen who are In the early days of our Republic, the civil service was so primitive in its cotnposition and so sitnple in its working, that it presented none of the difficulties with which it has become entangled in later years. In those days, the officers having the power of appointment, used it solely with the ailn of filling offices with men of high n'loral reCtitude and of special qualifica- tions for the duties to be perfonned. In fact, so well was thi~. power dire&:ed, and so highly esteemed was faithful perforn1ance of duty, that for the forty years preceding Jackson's adtninis- tration there were but 100 removals from office, and those for valid reasons. · the exponents of the policy ; but this change should not be so sweeping as to ren1ove those officers whose duties are 1nerely of a routine character. But, with the advent of Jackson, a new theory · was introduced into Atnerican politics. '' To the viCtors belong the spoils \ becan1e the cry, and so it has continued until the present day. This phrase has~ for tnore than half a century, served in nutnberless capacities,-as a pretnise, · as a conclusion, even as an axiotn, so great is the endeavor of interested tnotive to. create a setnblance of logical right for its actions! According to the code thus laid down, a party does not consist of 1nen united by the patriotic intent of enforcing what they conceive to .be cor- rect principles, but of a band of fortune-hunters, more eager than the soldiers of Pizzan·o to turn public power into private gain. Of course there are appointive offices under , governtnent requiring tnen in perfect sytnpathy with the Executive. But how few are these compared with those .offices which, it has been claimed, should undergo a cotnplete change of incutnbents at every change of the administration, Otnitting the few mentioned, a sound policy would dictate a tnaintenance in office of those who, by long experience, have qualified them- selves for the able performance of their duty. It is not denied that there are thousands of persons out of office just as well able naturally to perform · those duties; but why try the needless experi- ment of selecring one, and then the needless trouble of instruCting hitn, when the man a~ready in the p!ace does the work in a satisfaCtory tnanner? Again, offices as spoils ten'd to corrupt the whole political system fron1 the pritnary caucus upward. For what tnore alluring bribe is there than the promise of a desirable office? And it is a bribe that costs nothing to the giver ! This leads to another evil, the produCtion of a superfluous set of incutnbents whose chief duty consists in drawing their salaries; and this num- ber is largely swelled by those appointed on grounds of relationship or personal friendship. It tnay be asked: \ vVhat tneans, then, shall be adopted to rid the civil service frotn the evils of the spoils systern? \ . The following rules would I think, if carried out, fully answer the question: F-irst. Let appointtnents be tnade 1. On- grounds of ability. 2. On grounds of merit. Second. Let appointees be retained in so long as they satisfactorily execute duties. office their Thlrd. When a vacancy occurs in a higher grade, let it be filled fron1 the grade next lower, if there is an incumbent in that lower grade who has ably and zealously perfonned his duties, and who has sufficient ability for the higher office. Thus, promotion would aB: as an incentive to industry. Fourth. Upon reaching a certain age, let the incumbent be retired upon a cornfortable pension to run the remainder of his life. This is but just, and suitable laws could be enacted to pre- vent persons near this age from entering the

. I I I I ! THE CONCORDIENSIS. office, as their services would not be great An Elizabethan Dra1na .. enough to entitle the1n to a pension when retired • There is son 1 ething peculiar about Elizabeth. a few years later. . Whether it is the coal-ash color of her eyes, or There vvould at first, possibly, be son1e diffi-. · the marked assertion of her left shoulder toward culty as to the best tnethod of carrying out these the corresponding ear, I will not pretend to rules, but a little experience would soon re- assert, but as she gently wabbled into a Sopho- 1nove it. The CiYil Service Conunission, as it now . exists, is probably as good a body for the put- lJOSe as could be fonned; better than the Execu- · tive, vvho cannot devote to the subject a 1noiety of the tin1e it requires. There 1nay be sotne question aR to what con- stitutes ability for adn1ission. A person who is able to pass a good exan1ination on general sub- jects n1ay be supposed to have sufficient qualifi- cations to n1aster the duties laid upon hitn. This is certainly a n1uch better test than a record as a political heeler, which, a few years ago, constituted a pasport into n1any a lucrative position. The test of ability for protnotion should be like that for achnission, but tnore technical in its charac-ter, treating of the duties to be per- fonned in the higher office. The tests for 1nerit will present a 111 uch more silnple probletn than those for ability. The applicant should possess a good 1noral charaCter, and if, in any capacity, he has rendered good service to the country, it should be taken into account, The other rules would, I think, pre- sent no difficulty; a little experience would' detnonstrate the best n1ethods for their execution. The benefits evolving from a sweeping refonn of this kind would be great; the difficulty of tnak- ing it, slight; the glaring evils of the spoils sys- ten1 would be eradicated, and the country could by that 1neans be brought nearer that ideal political purity so earnestly desired by every true American. N~ M. R. The Harvard library contains I84,ooo volu1nes; Yale I IS,ooo; Dartinouth, 6z,ooo; Cornell, 53,0~0; ~rown, sz,ooo; Cohnnbia, .51 '.ooo; Williams, r8,ooo; Princeton, 49,000; Mtchtgan, 45 ,ooo; Iowa, I8,ooo; Oberlin, r6,ooo, .and Minnesota I 5 ooo. Amherst college has recetved 6oo skins ~f birds, the remnants of the colllection of th~ ~~~~bra ted J· J, Audubon. more's rootn the other day, she 1nade, in faCt, an impression. The literary n1an of the roo1n, im- Inediately recalling the fact that 1nany weeks had passed since the last sweep-out, opened upon her son1ething like this : ., ' Excuse me, Elizabeth. I would not for the world disturb your gracious equani1nity, but I feel it 1ny duty to re1nind you that although your eyes have that blue, crystalize translucency that raises tny soul into cerulian bliss, you have not swept out yet this term.\ Slowly did Elizabeth con1prehend the thread of his discourse, and at its tern1ination signs of a ·gathering stonn appeared upon her countenance, but he hastened to avert it. '' Do not mistake 1ne,\ he said, \ hotnage to beauty is never an insult. If I re1nark that you hav~ a shell-like ear, which the purest diamond would but 1nar, it is only that I 1nay better incline that beautiful organ to listen to tny plaintive cry- Oh! Elizabeth, sweep out!\ Elizabeth was debating within herself whether she could get out of the roo In in safety or not, when the poet broke out in the following : '' 0! thou of charming grace, With sweet, angelic face; 0! thou the fairest of the fair, Listen to my tearful prayer- Oh! Elizabeth, sweep out!\ \Dost thou not remember How, in last December, You promised '' How long he would have kept it up is un- known had not Elizabeth suddenly bolted for the door followed by a coal-hod, two dutnhells, five ' . books and a blacking brush. And the colleg1ates were again lost in study. G. U. F., '88. The Atnerica's cup was harder to capture than a jack.-pot. Even four races did not take it.- .Ex. [ 'I .I I •i i ., \

[ 'I ,\ I •i i ,, .. THE CONCORDIENSIS. Tramping in the Helderbergs. Our nineteenth century civilization has not · quite driven the custon1& of our forefathers frotn · the heart of New .York State. Within sight of: the Albany Capitol, the busy housewife still spins yarn and kJ;Jits stockings for her farnily in the same sitnple way in which her grandrnother did before the invention of the n1achi nes which ~.ow embody in steel the svvift hand and ready brain of the mythical fairies of the olden thne. While can1ping on the Helderbergs last sum- mer, I walked over not a stnall deal of country. In one of my tratnps, stopping at a fann house to get a drink, I saw what I had ahvays thought I never could see, except in rny mind's eye,-an old woman spinning. For a long time I watched her at work, as she skillfully drew out the yarn, and talked with her about her life on those hills. She told tne, in excuse for spinning in sutnmer, that her supply of yarn had been drawn upon by one of her neighbors, who was kept, by the . sickness of her husband, from spinning for her- self. It was a true exatnple of country kindness begotten by dwelling at a distance from stores. From ,her talk I gathered that their life was very quiet ; and, although the place was delight- ful then, during the sumtner, I wondered what they did in winter, when the snow, many feet deep all over the hills, had swept down into the hollow in which the house lay and had shut then1. out from the rest of the world. To my question, the good wotnan said that she and her husband, and their three sons, tnade little wooden pill boxes, and that if they worked hard, they could earn about thirty cents a day. It was small pay but then they lived in a stnall way. Again, on another day, I went with a friend through a fann yard, protnpted by the satne desire for drink. In satisfying my thirst for water, it often happened that tny thirst for knowledg~ was aroused and then slaked. Pas- sing by a woodshed door, we saw a very old man bending over, and a stnall boy-perhaps ten years old-standing behind hirn and cutting the little hair that was left on the lower part of the man's head. He catne outside and gave us a hearty welcome, and then said that he had been cradling oats, and as he had become some .... - what tired and had cotne into the house, his little grandson was cutting his hair. He added that he was eighty years old and therefore could not work so hard as he once could. As we were talking, the short, sharp barks of a dog came up from the rneadow some distance off, and the old :tnan, as eager as the little boy by his side, cried.: \Shep 's got a W?odchuck; cotne on, let's go and get it.\ Now, sotne of the men at the catnp had set a trap for woodchucks, and used to go out regularly every morning with a gun, and cotne back as regularly in an hour or two with the gun and wet feet, but no wood- chucks. . So we thought it would be great luck and an eloquent cotnmentary on our :fellow campers' skill if we could bring back one with- out the aid of gun or trap, but only with our own attractiveness (and the farmers' hoe. and dog). As we trudged through the field, the man informed us that he had always lived within a mile of that spot, and had never been away, except with loads of farm produce to Albany and once to Canajoharie, and was then gone only over one night. With great precaution lest the animal should escape us, we and the dog dug it out; and after the dog had taken his pay out of it by giving it a thorough shaking, we carried it up to the house. The gathering clouds warned us that we must make haste, and as we bid our host good-by,'.we placed in his band that offspring of tnodern cor- ruption-a tip. He drew back and said, \0 pshaw ! I don't want that,\ but as we insisted that he did, he, with a kind of guilty smirk, put it into his pocket. His wannth of manner, however, was, if possible, increased; and he several titnes insisted that we should cotne again. In returning we were overtaken by the stonn, and walked three or four miles in a pour- ing rain, but were well satisfied with our experi- ence. We had a mighty good meal off of the woodchuck ; although some people don't like the animal, we do. For some time instructions on the tnethod of catching woodchucks were given in catnp, free of charge, and were even pressed upon the pupils, though desiring to be left alone.

THE CONCORPIENSIS. 'I - -· \ Lest anyone should think that all of the. good Prof. Truax says that the Sophomore,exan1.i- .· ... people of the Helderbergs are as simple as those /.'nation. papers in rhetoric were as good as he. described, I would say that the 1najority a:re just .~ver expeCt:s to receive fron1 any college class. ·· as vvell inforn1cd as those of any other fanning · Professo1~ in Engineering: \ Can anyone tell· district, and that tnost of thetn are a little tnore· ·me how ~yenite received its natTt:e ?\ Senior S.. . ·· greedy of gain; but when you go away from quickly respond :· '' Fron1 cyanide of potas- . . the tnain roads, you occasionally find a fatnily sium.?' strangely behind the titnes. LOCAL. Attend the college fair. Have you been mestnerized yet? What has becotne of the college dances? ... No tnore conditions, under the new resolu- tion. Two new tnen have entered the Freshn1an \ class. Freshn1en have Inilitary drill only twice a week this tenn. . . l:· • . Miller, '87, and De Long, '88 have, returned ~o their respective classes. , Many students are attending Prof. Bass' dan.c- ing assetn bl y Wednesday evenings, at Stanford hall. The Freshn1en are rnaking preparation for a class suppeL Albany has been chosen as the place for the repast. The n1eetings of the Union college senate. have been discontinued for the tenn, for what reason the Seniors only know. ' . It is rutnored that the ball nine of the class of '88 are intending to challenge the nine of the satne class at Hatnllton, early in the .season. Senior C. in Psycology : ~' If the first man possessed rational intuition, what did the pre- vious man have? Applause from the gallery. Dorwin, '86, while perfonning in the gymna- siutn, suffered a sad spTain, but, with the doc- tor's aid, he was saved any permanent injury. Beautiful Classical Institute girl, watching the Freshtnen '' 111arking titne\ with that peculiar shuffle which only Freshn1en can execute, says : '' I. wonder what tnakes those poor Freshmen so nervous-they can't stand still?\ ·Geological Professor to Senior S. : \Now ·. Mr.- S., where is the current in a river the swift- est?\ Senior S. : \ Where the water runs the . slowest.'' The Fresh111en having at last finished their prin1ary English gran1n1ar, are. now struggling with, \How to Write Clearly.\ Retnarkable' progres§J --=- . Student (who has just con1e in late). in Astronotny: '' Professor, do watches ke_ep mean sGlar titne ?\ Professor: '' Yes, sotne keep very mean tin1e. The public debate, betvveen the Philotnathean and Adelphic societies, has been postponed frotn tin1e to titne, until now it is uncertain . - when it will take place. Profes_sor in n1odern languages: \What word in that line is con1rnon to both the French and German?\ S_tudent (with g1~eat glee): \Billy (billet).\ Class con1e~ down. Professor in Geology : \ N ovv, Mr. H., .if. I put this · little ball of shoetnakers' wax on the . table, what will becon1e of it?\ Mr. H. : ·\·I will_ go right through the table.\ Prof. Hqffman recently addressed the tnetn- bei·s of the Adelphic Literary society on \ Observations Concerning Orators.\ All pres- ent listened to his retnarks with n1uch pleasure. Two Freshrnen are standing by the section entry, when one retnarks : ~' Say, you ain't got that interpolation exatnple yet, have you?\ Passing Sophotnore : '' Better go in-ter-poll-it, then, Fresh.\ Prof. Van Derveer has a very large class in the gy1nnasiutn every afternoon. Many are candidates for the base- ball nine. Frotn present indications we will· be well represented next season on the ca1n pus. 1.. \' .~

1.. I . \. -~ >. THE CONCORDIENSIS 33 Student .going down street, to charcoal vender:'' '' Have you got any charcoal in your wagon?\ ~ \Yes sir.'' ''That's right; <'tlways tell the trttth and peo1)le will respect you.'' . Professor ( con1plaining that too n1nch tin1e has . already been consu,tned in correcting Latin sen- . ten.ces) caUed on Mr. w-· -to recite, who has _written on the board '' Nihil est quod .fest in e- . ,., M- w· · · 1 · 'I\'l · mus. · .:t. -- nses anc says: '• . 1ere ts -;no ~·eason why we should hurry.'' . The Phi lon1athean Literary Society elected the following officers at the last tnecting of last tenn: President, Courtright ; Vice-President . ~ ' B~11nett; Secretary, P. H. Cole ; rfreasurer, Furbeck; Board of DireCtors, Marvin, DiHing- President Allen. has announced the following senior cotntnittees : Cards-Felthousen, Courtright, Lawler, Ran- dall, Little. Music-Woodbridge, Lawler, Franklin. Ball-Jackson, Foote, Dorwin . PiB:ures-·-LaMonte, Little, Blessing . Supper-Harris, Randall, Cole. Class Day-· Mosher, Skinner, Ostrander. Reception-· Cole, Veeder, Dorwin. harn, Merrell ; Curator, Gillespie. The college has been favored, through the enterprise of sotne of the n1etnbers of the )..,.. . M. C._ A. organization, with the presence of Mr. Studd, of England. Mr. Studd is a graduate of Catnhridge University, where he took a high place in athletics, as well as in studies. He: \vas ~ \The last division ot the senior class wh:; · a leading tnetnber of the cricket teatn, and also delivered orations in the chapel \Vere as follows: an- excellent foot-ball player. Mr. Studd held Jackson, suhjeC1:: \ Popularity;\ Mosher: . i1wetings, throughout the entire period of his \ Why we should be F j rst ; \Ostrander : \ Marti 11 stay of near! y a week, with those results which Luther;\ Randall: • 'A Ret>I-ospect ;\ Skinner: ·only a genial, whole-souled, thoroughly Chris- \ Change;\ and Vedder: \National Aid for tian man can produce. Although his meetings Education.\ were not as well attended as they should have The Sophomores have been required to deliver been, they were of marked benefit to the college. Mr. Studd is now· at Cornell. an oration in place of the usual declan1ations for : the tenn. The. subject for the essay is, \'The At a 1neeting of the faculty, a fe\v days ago, ~fl'ect of the Norn1an Conquest on the Civilizh- the fol~owing resolutions -vvere adopted: tion of England.\ T'he oration being due at Resolved, That hereafter no student of the the end of January, and· the essay is due at the · freshtnan class shall be passed into the sophon1ore ~of February. / class who has any conditions unsatisfied at the As an effect of the general bolt taken after close of the college year ; nor any sophon1ore the tennination of the T'han.ksgiving vacation, with the junior class ; nor any junior into the , a resolution was passed by the Faculty, rnaking senior; and that no senior student who· has not it necessary that all students be back on the re- tnade up all his work of every kind by the end qui red day and register. Without the registra- of the second tenn of the senior year shall be tion certificate, no one was allowed to enter adn1issible to a recOJntnendation for a degree, recitations. What next? excepting by a unanin1ous vote of the faculty. 'An1ong the tnany hnprovernents in the English· Resolved. Further, that in the case of students departtnent of the college, that of the critical of the three lower classes, an opportunity to study of the English language and literature is regain their position tnay be offered to deficient one of the tnost itnportant. The subject runs students at the entrance exatninations in Septen1- through a large part of the .course, and each ber following their failure. If a student fails to author of consequence is taken up separately avail himself of this oppottuntty he shall be and made the subject of special study. Prof.. excluded from his proper class; nor shall he be Truax is tnaking It· not only a profitable bHt a restored thereto excepting by a unanitnous vote delightful study. ·of the faculty.

l l ' ! . : i . I I . 1 I \ 34 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PERSONALS. '23. G,en. Robert Too1nbs died at his ho1ne in Washington, Ga., on Dec. r5. I-Ie was born July 2, r8ro. After graduation he studied law at the University of Virginia, and practiced ir1 his native place. In I 836 he served with Gen. . Winfield Scott as captain of volunteers in the Creek war. He was elected to the Georgia leg-is-: lature in 1837, and, with the exception of r84r, continued a metnber. Fron1 1845 to 1853 he was a 1nen1ber of congress, and was then eleCted a metnber of the United States senate, served a tenn and was re-eleCted, but the State of Georgia having passed its secession ordinance on : Jan. 19, r86r, Gen. Tootnbs withdrew fxo1n the • senate on the twenty-third of that 1nonth, and ()n March 14th following he was expelled. He was. a mernber of the Confederate Congress which met at Montgotnery, Ala., was subsequently for a short time secretary of state of the ConfedeTate States, and was also a brigadier-general in the · Confederate army. '37· Henry J. Carter, of Stockbridge, Mass., . died Jan. Ist, r886. '5r. Dr. Wtn. Frothinghatn, who was a resi- dent of Washington Heights, New York,,. accidently shot and killed hin1self in that cHy a few weeks ago. He was born at Johnstown in I83o. His mother was a niece of Washington Irving and a daughter of Gen. Richard Dodge who tnarried the author's sister, Anne Irving. After graduating fr01n Union he entered the College of Physicians and Surgeons, graduating in 1854· For three years afterward he worl<ed at Bellevue hospital, and then went abroad and studied medicine for two years at Paris and Berlin. He entered the war as surgeon of the Forty-fourth New York Volunteers, but before its termination he contraCted typhoid fever ancl was honorably discharged. Upon the restoration of his health he settled in New York and co11- tinued the praCtice ,of his profession. l-Ie vvas one of the ·physicia~s who attended Chades O'Conor when his life was so long despaired· of. I-Iis wife and two daughters are living. f '59· Dr. Nonnal L. Snow died at Albany, Dec. ( P) r885. fie was of English ancestry on his father's side and Swiss on his Inother's, and was born at Root, Montgotnery county, N. Y., in I839· He attended the College of Physicians and Surgeons of New 'l,... ork city, graduating in I 86 I . In r862 be entered in the One Hundred and T\venty-fifth Regirnent, New York State Volunteers. In .August of that year he was appointed assistant surgeon in the anny, and in r864 surgeon, which position he· filled until r865. Subsequently he settled in Canajoharie, where he 1naintained a large practice. In r87 5 he retnoved to Albany, and there continued his praCtice. He was a rnember of the Montgomery county rnedical society, the Albany tnedical society and also the state 1nedical society of New York. In April,. r884, he was elected alder- n1an-at-large on the detnocratic ticket. He be- cmne president of the co1nn1on council, and served in that position up to the ti1ne of his illness. '84. R. B. McCown has been elected presi- dent of the class of '86 ..... .L\..lbany law school. '84. George F. Allison was 1narried on Nov. 25, 1885, at Oswego, N. Y., to Miss Charlotte L. DeWitt, daughter of Dr. Byron DeWitt of that city. The wedding took place in Grace church at r I A. M. The ushers were Foote, '85, Barney, '84, Bridge, '87, I<:itts, '84, Haslett, '85, Bates, '88, and F. J. Patterson, of Cleveland. After the bridal trip, Mr. and Mrs. AJlison went to Brooklyn, N. Y., where they will hereafter ~·eside, the grootn being engaged in business with Barney in New York. '85. Sweetland has been ele~cd historian of the class and Waketnan, '88, was eleCted lnar- shal. Dr. Isaac G. Collins died recently at Sing Sing, N. Y., of nuralgia of the heart. He was fiity-three years old, was born in Greenville, Gr~ene County., N. Y. He was a graduate of the Albany Medical College, and at the ti1ne of his death was the. attending physician upon all the injured 1nen on the new aqueduCt in the vicinity of Sing Sing.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 35 ------- CLIPPINGS. Where it was Needed. J\ BOY threw his'hat on the floor, .t1_ And was told he 1nust do so no tnore; But he did it again, And his fond mother then Used her slipper until he was sore. the co-operative store.-There are l43 Aztec In- dians in the Freshtnan class.-The new cata- logue shows that the total number of students in attendance at the college is over 13,000. This includes three Turks who \vere not admitted.-· The Law School now etnbraces women.- Hockey is practiced at the Sophomore eating club.-It will be added to the required studies. The boy then looked up askance, And his mother cast down a mad glance: ''Do you know now,\ said she, '' Where your hat ought to be?\ ''Yes·,'' he answered, \inside of my pants.\ -Columbus Dt~'i_/Jatch. Summary of News. THE patent outside enterprise has con1e to be such an important factor in the life of the ordi- nary newspaper, that we see no reason why the schetne 1night not be utilized in college journal- ism. We offer the following as illustrating the possibilities along this line in the Inter-collegiate departtnent for exan1ple.-[Eds. WILLIAMS :-There are now 902 books in the library, including almanacs, catalogues of stars~ marine charts, Dutch logs, missionary reports, and the librarian.-'l\'he Congressional Records are reserved for tnembers of the faculty .-A so- ciety for improving the co~dition of the chapel is being organized, the object of which is to as- setnble in chapel an hour before prayers and disseminate heat by the natural 1nethod.-The college has subscribed $soo,ooo this year for the support of its nine.-Professor Pra·.t has been elected president in the absence of Dr. Carter. -Every n1·an in college pays for three copies of the Fortnight. , YALE :-·The 1.:eport that Yale lost her head over her defeat by Princeton is etnphatic~·Uy de- nied.-There is talk of 1noving the fence nearer the sidewalk so that the Freshtnan c1-n expeCto- rate in the gutter without spoiling the dresses of the young ladies who pass by .-U nder-cla.ss- tnen are now allowed, by vote of the faculty, to appear in the hall of their donnitories with . neckties on.-1 ... ale spirit( s) can be procured at HARVARD :-The Advocate has been adopted as a text-book in the English Lit course.-The Faculty are at present sitting on the new peti- tion for voluntary prayers.-A Freshtnan has been suspended for cutting his teeth.-Beside stnall-pox, several cases of anglo- mania have broken out. The Crimson has them well-un 'er vva y, however .-Efforts are being .tnade to re- tnove Boylston Museutn and Francis street to Cambridge.-The conference committee have voted that (h) ashes rnust not be slung on the slippery floor in Metnorial Hall.- Willt'ams Fortnight. Rebuked. O NCE on a summer day Far fr01n the beaten way, Some fairy bade me stray- Cupid, mayhap. Under a leafy tree, Whom should I chance to see, Whom, but my Rosalie, Taking a nap! There in a lovely nook, Screened fro1n intruder's look Near her neglected book, Slmnb'ring she lay. What could a fellow do? Tell me, sir, wouldn't you Kneel and take one or two Kisses away? Ah, but I broke the spell! Opened her eyes and-well, Could I do else than tell Ho-w it was broke? Hmnbly for grace I plead; Sternly she shook her head; '' Couldn't you wait,\ she said, ''Till I awoke?'' -Harvard Advocate.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Col:Jege Falr. At a chapel tneeting Jan. 19th, a cotntnittee con1posed of Messrs. Skinner, Dorwin, Little, Angle, Johnson, Ransdel:l, Radliff, Bates,, Breng nan, Towne, Hunsicker, Culver and Conover, was appointed to superintend a college fair. The proceeds of the fair are to :go into the base-ball fund, and the e\rent wiH probably take place about the first of March. Fron1. the fact that ' Schenectady has already had several fairs this year, and that one or two tnore will he held be- fore the first of March, it would seen1 at first in1- practicable to attetnpt to raise tnoney in that \vay. Hovvever, nothing pays better in Old Dorp than a fair, and with an energetic conl- Inittee, good entertainn1ent, and the aiel of the ladies clown tovvn, ('who, \Ve understand, have kindly C\Hlsentecl to help), there is no reason vvhy the fi1ir can not he etninently successful. It is hoped that every student will give what assist- ance he can, ancl that each one will clo his best to n1ake the afEli r a success. GENERAL COLLEGE NEV'JS. ---~-----~-- Gyrnnasiutn attendance is to be tnade con1pul- sory at the University of Pennsylvania.--- Joh~ns Hopkins is to have a new $roo,ooo Physical laboratory. The Senior class at Colun1hia propose to raise $roo~oo for a gyin- nasuun. IIarvard students are circulating a new petition for voluntary chapel. Atn- herst has established a !-louse of Con1n1ons.--- Oberlin has lost by fire a $5o,ooo donnitory and IIobart a $25 ,ooo library. It is run1ored that President Giln1an, of Johns Hopkins, will be called to the chair at \Tale. Cohunbia Seniors are to recci ve no In arks this year.--- Williams has a toboggan slide. Sixteen colleges are without presidents. Princeton is to be a university within five years. T'he Athletic grounds of that college inlpt·oved. Yale has representatives from thirty-five :States, four territories, and (·leven foreig-n countries. Princeton is expecting a salaried trainer, who will have the entire charge of the athletic sports. One half the salary coming from the alutnni and the other half frotn student associa- tion. T11'e Seniors at Princeton expect to have a n1emorial for their class. Princeton has beaten Yale at Lacrosse, Rase-ball and Foot-ball in the last tvvo years. Thirty thousand dollars has recently been donated to Syracuse University. ---At a recent 1neeting of the Trustees of Cornell University, the salaries of the professors were raised to $z ,5oo. and those of the instruct- ors to $r ,zoo. Tuft's College is to have bronze statues of all its Presidents. Moody is holding revival n1eetings at Dartmouth.--- It is said that Jesse Seliquau has endowed four fellowships at Colun1bia College. U ni- versity of Pennsylvania has compulsory gytnnasi- un1 exerc tses T'his Year. for the second con- secutive tirne, a Rugby foot-ball tearn fron1 Lon- don, has defeated a joint teatn from.· Oxford and Can1bridge. Five colleges have been es- tablished in Dakota within the l~st year.--- 1-Iarvard' s annual, the Index is out. Prob- IIarvard fi1culty have decided to allow the stu- dents to play foot-hall. Se1ni-n1ilitary discipline is to be introduced at Vassar.--- It is said that the Bostonians want Gen. Francis A. Walker for president of Yale College. A stu- dent of 1\\ ale recently gave $650 to have the .ably the largest literary prize ever oflered is that of$r,ooo,ooo, to be given in r925 by the Rus- sian Acaden1y for the best work on the life and reign of Alexander I. In 1825, shortly after the death of Alexander l., the sum of so,ooo roubles was ot1ered by one of his favorite ministers, to be given as a prize a century after hts death, and this at cot11pound interest will a1nount in 1925 to $r,ooo,ooo. The law library of the late Merritt King has been purchased by the 1'rustees of Cornell University, and is said to be the finest private law library in the State_. It contains 4,100 volutnes, p~rticularly rela- ting to the early history of Jurisprudence. The purchase was tnade to establish a law school at C.ornell, which the President thinks can be nu1.de a success at Ithaca. A n1edical school is also to be established, and its founda- tion will be 111ade within a cotnparatively short ti1ne at Cornell. •

TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. HELP T.HOSE WHO HELP US I TRADE WITH THOSE WHO HELP SUPPORT : Y.UUR COLLEGE PAPER. S PO_R_ !S MAN'.S CAP ORA.~- The latest, aJld becomhzg very popu.!a r. JJJanufactltr- , ed by special request. A deliciou' blend · ~f choice Turkzi.\h and Virg-hzia. The following are our ·well known Standard Brands: · SWEET' CAPORAL. CAPO·RAL. -CAPORAL 1 ~, ST. J.:\MES §, S:r.; .JAMES, AMBASSADoR, ENTRE Nous, SPORT. Ki11ney Hros. Straight Cut, Full Dress Ci'gareltes. • Our Cigarettes are made from the finest selected : Tobaccos, thoroughly cured. and French Rice Pa- · per, are rolled by the highest class of skllled labor, · d.nd warranted free from flavoring or impurities. Every genuine Cigarette bears a FAC-SIM ILE o KINNEY BROS, Signature. . KI1VNEY l\'OBACCO CO., (Successors to Kinney Bros.) N.:El'V'V YO:E?.:IC. ROBERT T. MOIR, (Successor to John T. Gilmour,) DEALER IN BOOKS, STATIONERj AND PAPER HANGINGS, 201 State a?zd II6 Cetztre Sts., Schetl.ectady, N. r Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Transatlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. HARMAN \ONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Boots,. Shoes and R,ubbers, 142 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. R. ~-QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. Diplomas, Views, Portraits, Wedding a1zd College l1tvitations, Cards, Monognnns, etc. ORIGINAL DESIGNS WHEN DESIRED. RICHMO~p STRAIGHT CUT (N0.1) CIGA~ETTES. ~ERSONS who are willing to pay a little tnore f' than the price charged for the ordinary trade Cigarette will find these Cigarettes far superio1~ to all others. ~BEWARE OF IMI rATIONS AND OBSERVE THAT SIGNATURE OF UNDERSIGNED APPEARS ON EVERY PACKAGE . ALLEN 8t; GINTEit, Manufacturers, RichmonQ., Va. . . . JOHN 1'. JOHNSON. ~OHN <9. ~OHNSON, -·-THE- POPULAR CLOTHIER· 35 :bi.Caiden La:n.e., Next Door to the Wt.'tzdsor. ALBANY, N. Y.

- -THE CONCORDIENSIS. WII .. SON. DAVIS, Merch,ant ~~Tailor, I 15 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~DENTIST.,~ 235~ .STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. wooD BROS., MENS' } 1 URNISHINGS, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS, CUFFS .. Goons RECEIVED FOR TROY LAUNDRY. 133 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GEORGE E. VINCEN1\' 10 WALL __ STREET. Schenectady Steam Laundry. Work done at the following low rates: Collars and Cuffs, 2c. each; Undershi-rts, 8c. each; Snirts, r2Jic. each; Socks, 4c. each. All other . work in' like proportion, THOMAS ODY, PROPRIETOR. Washing, $s.oo, per Term, inclttdz'ttg repat'ri'ng. 0. VAN SL YCK, DEALER IN FLOUR, COAL, SAWED & S~LIT WOOD, Lime, Calcined Plaster, Cement & Hay, ~- 57 CENTRE and 7 PINE Sts., Sche1zectady, N. r. CONRAD GcETZ, MERCHANT TAILOR, 85 CENTRE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ~Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. J • H. BARHYTE, DEALER IN GE]\PFS' Frii~I~JU]\lG G88D~ BOOKS AND STATIONERY, AND MANUFACTURER OF ANCIENT CITY SHIRT, Myers' Elock, Schenectady, N. Y. 203 STATE STREET. W. T. HANSON & CO., Paper Hanghzgs a1zd DecoraHons. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. ROOMS PAPERED AT SHORT NOTICE. I I I State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. DINNERS, SUPPERS, AND LUNCHES DRUGGISTS AND APOTHECARIES, FURNISHED AT SHORT NOTICE. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. ICE CREAM ALU7AVS ON HAND. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIO CORN SALVE. 203 State Schenectady, N. r. REEVES' RESTAURANT, TOILE':{l ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. 67 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

ffliE C()=\CORI)IE:\SIS. 'VILSON l)A \:Is, Merchant ~(;Tailor, I 1 5 State Street , S c h en e c t a c1 y, N . \r. J)l{. 0. ]. GROSS, -:+DENTIST.,+<- SCHENECT'AJ)Y, N. Y. I I ! SdteHettady ~team Laundry. \\\l)rk d<~ne at the fo]J.,win:.!; lnw rates: Collars and Cuff-;, 2c. each; l'ncler~hirt>-, s.:. t.:;wh: :-;hirt,.;, 12 1 -!c. each; Socks, 4c. each. All other ' work in like pr11pnrtion, 'I'JI0:\11\S OJ)Y, PI<OPR.IETOR. ! DEALER IN I I FLOUR, COAL, SAWED & SPLIT WOOD 1 Lin1e, Calcined Plaster, Ccn1ent & Hay, 57 C E.V TN E and 7 P I .. V E ,t..,'ts., Sl'!u·llt'clm(v, N. Y. \VOOIJ BROS., (j() :\T R/\ IJ CCJ~TZ, MENSl lj,URNI8HINGS, ~lER<;HANT TAILOR, SHII<1,S, UNDI~l{WEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, ~ECK\VE.\R, COLLARS, Cl'FFS. SS Cl!.~l\-'TJ(h~ .. '>·T., S{i!EJ\lf~CTAD Y, .N. Y. I 33 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GEORGE E. VINCEN'l', J . II. BARII\TTE, , . GE}\1lllS' NUI~}\1ISJII}\1G GOODS UEAI.El~ IN BOOKS AND STATIONERY~ A:..;I> :\L\~l.F:\CTl'RE}{ <>F 1\ N C I EN 'I, C rr \' S II I R, r, .\ Fl. LL LI.~ E OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. ROOMS PAPERED AT SHORT NOTICE. l\1yers' Block, Schenectady, N. Y. I I I State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 2();3 ST1\l'I~ S'l'REET'. J)INNERS, 1\r. 'f. II:\XS()N & C(),, S l r I > I > I~: R S. A~n LUNCHES Fl·R~ lSI lEI> .\T SIIORT :\'OTICE. F!iVE C/(T'AN.' ... ; A .<..,'/)RCIAIJTr. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. !CJ~· C~A)E./IJI . .-1/J Ir .. ·I YS 01V IIANIJ. .:!0/ c\.'\'·· .\.rh··m···'\:~'.·· .~~· .. r: . . . . I TOILET ARTICLES. IHU (J(dSIS Sl:\:DRII·.S.! REEVES' RESTAURANT • 67 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

l· i i ! 1 C, E. WENDELL & c·o. PIANOS, OR.OANS ' , MUSIC. -::MIXTURE~ FOR ,, P~:P·e o:r Oiga:rette. THREE KINGS, Turkls/r., Perique or Vlrginia. MELLOW MIXTURE,. Turkislz and Pert\que. : TURKISH and VIRGINIA. ,· PERI.J'lUE and VIRGINIA. GENUINE TURKISH. FULL STOCK AT L01¥EST PRICES! • FLAK£ Cu-rs EsPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE PIPE. 89 AND 91 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N.Y. sctENTtnc AMERICAN -; • • h•• l • ~·': . I l .. , : 1 ~-= :; ~ .~. •:,_ .- The most populyo WeeklY news_paper devoted to science, mechanics,ensineerine. discoveries, in- ventions and patents ever publisned. Eveey nThuJI!• ber illustrated with splendid engravings. ~a pu~lication;fmnis~es a most :nluable encycl.ovecba of 1nformat1on whtoh no ~rson should be wtthout. The pgpularUl of the Somw:rii'IO A.MDIC.U ia aueh that its circulation nearly equa.lt that of all other J)apera of its class combined. Price. t3·~ a ;,~at. Discount to Olubs. Sold by all newsdealers. HUNN. CO., Publishers, No. 361Broadway, N.Y • .. ENTS !l::~~~h~~;~ ~I . • Eight ,ears' --------practice before Patent Oftice and haTe prepared than One Hundred Ttlou• applications for pa~nts tn the States and foreign cou»;tries. Caveali!l, Trade-Ma.rks, Copr-nghts, Assignments, and all ~th~r pap~rs for securing to inventors thetr ngllts tn the United States, Oan&d&, . England,~ France, Germany and other foreign countrieS, pre- paredat short notice and on reasonable terms. Informa.tion as to· obt.~ining~a.tents cheer- fully given without cho.rge. Band-boo~s of information sent free. . Pa~ents o~t&n~ed throuJh Munn A Co. are. nottced m the Sete~tlf!C A.mer 1 can free. The advantage of sue~ notJC~_lB well understood by a.ll perl5ons \b.o WISh to 4111- pol~d!!!;eiY(~~~ts. & CO.. Office SOllll('mFIO A.MIUUCAN, 561 Broadway, New Yorlt. VAlfiTY FAIR. OLD GOLD. Fragrau,t Vanity Fair, Superlative and Cloth of Gold Cigarettes ALWAYS FRESH, CLEAN AND SWEET. Our Clgarettes were never so fine as now; they can- not be surpassed for purity and excellence. Only the purest riee paper used. WM. .S. KIMBALL & CO., Rochester, N. Y. REMOVAL! L. FELD:J:v.f.:AN, _;_CUSTOM TAILOR- 70 7a1 St., (opj. Dr. Faust,) Sckenectady, N. r. The place where a perfect fit is guaranteed. Two hundred of the latest styles of samples just received from New York. Call and examine them. Repairing, cleaning and alterations of all kinds promptly, neatly and chea}lly done. · ANDREW T. VEEDER, Wholesale & RetaU Druggist, 141 STATE SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Largest Store in town, and Finest Assortment of Toilet Articles.

:Ea. ::E::l. A':I:':EC'J:NSON~ j\_N_'r'~S'P 1\.N~ :FlFie>'J\'e)~fill\.PPIEN NOW LOCATED AT 257 AND 25<} STATE Sr .. , SCHEN.ECTADr, N. r., Has been the Class Photographer to the following institutions: Cor:oeU, R. P. I., Williams (twice}, Columbia (twice), Stevens and Wesleyan and several other noted ins.t·iilu.tfons. ~Students are welcom·e. F. D. HUBER, ' REESE & HARTI~E:Y, DEALER IN DEALERS IN 8 o,o t s a r1 d 8 hoes. • CHOICI. GRO'C.ERIES & PR·OVISIONS STACY, ADAMS & CO.'S ''J}hela11gest and most complete assortment af GENTS' FINE SHOES A SPECIALTY. . Tobaccc;,)_ ,Czgars, Cigarettes~ Pipes, etc., IN THE CITY. Also, Custom Work and Repairing. I I2 State St., Schenectady, 11ext to Walker & Mairs. KING, \THE\ TAILOR, No. I02 State St., Sckenectady, J\T. r. FULL DRESS SUITS TO LET. AT THE City Boot and Shoe Store Is the place to find the celebrated Yoh1zston & Murphy, Sam'! Ga3tz, ·y. & H. Fitzpatrick G:SN'::t'S' ::E=\J:NE S::B:OES, 267 STATE STREET. JOHN G. SCHUMAC}iER. CORNER ,C)f UNION AND ROMEYN STREETS. Ij. T. C.LUTE, Fi\8',HIO·NABLE. HATTER. Agent for I>unlap and Knox Hats. Best assortment of Hats, Caps, Trunks, Bags, etc., in the city. No. IOJ State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A BR:OWN & SON, ~. - Est:;lblished t829. -_ UpholsteJers. *and *Furniture * Dealers, r.s 4 ST.~Ar7.B ST., SCHENEC'TADr, N. r; L A. YOUNG_, • • Pianos, .Q;rgans and Musical Merchandise GENERALLY. Domestica~cl.other Family Sewing Machines. r66 S-.rATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N.Y. JOSEPH Gl LILOn'S · STEEL PENS. THE FAVORITE. NUMBERS, 303,404, 3SZ1a51,170. AND 'HIS OTHER S'IYl£5 SOLD IIY ALL DEALERS THRGUGIIOU1DEWORLD. e:w ..... Y HOLTZMANN & FITZMAURICE, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL @L0111HIE~S ~-r: AND ~-r: ffiE~GHANJil ~· <9AIUO~S~ 77 .AND 79 STAlE ST., Cor. PLiRRY, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

