ATKINSON, PHOTO, DR. HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of Union College.

IMPO·RTANT t t See Special .N oiice on !'Page 'Thirteen (IJ.) • THE CoNCORDIENSIS. VOL. XI. UNIO~ COLLEGE? SEPTEMBER, 1887. NO. I Tl1e Concordiensis. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY STU:OENTS oF UNION Co1JLEGE. Board of Editors: I l place,'' \\Te now need all our energies for :foot ball ; base ball has its place in the 1 1 spring.. 'rh~ class gan1es as arranged ~rill no doubt bring out some good material, ]but it is the duly of those who can play at H. c. l\1.ANDEVILLE, 't>8, EnrToR-IN-OniEF'. all, to turn out and work in the practice M. NoLAN. JR.,, 'S~, I. AssrsTANTs. gan1es. It should be the duty also of the J. H. HANSON. 89, ) 0. W .. BIJF.JSSfNG, '88, LITERARY EDITOR. . foot ball lnanageffi81Tt to place that Sport H. C. DEPuY, 90, AssocJATES. E. T. CARROLL,. '89, ~. upon an equal footin·g in every. respect '91, with base halL The fAll field rneeting will F. D L~wrs, '88, BusiNEsg EDrToK not interfere with foot ball, and those who G. c. BAJ{E\R ' 88 · t A . . t 1 . . th fi ld t h ld b H. T~ MosHER, '90, r SSOCJA'rES .. 111 enc entering . e . e . spor s s ou e •. already in training. Those who are fairly $1.50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE' _ 20 CENTs. proficient in any branch should not fail to TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of inte-rest enter, aS it lS OUr duty and to OUr Credit and information concerning Alumni. t k fi ld d · t t · t t Subscriptions taken at Robison~s news room, 143 State street,. ·o ll 1 a e e ay au 111 eres 111g even 0 where receipts can be obtained. Extra copies can be obtaint'd the spectators Don't erJter ''for fu \ at above news room or on application to Business Manager. ;-.:ub- · -' '· · . - · · n, scribers not receiving paper::5 promptly, will kindly aotJEy Busi- you only 1nake yourself ridiculOUS ·, enter ness Manager. All remittances should b€' made and mall sent to THE Co~COR- tc ~uin. As to base ball and spring ath- DIENSIS, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post Offtce, Scht-'nectady, N. Y., as second-cla~s mattP.r. tbitorinl. letics, their tiine has not yet conle and we will speak of them later. The sting of defeat and the painful n1e1nories. of ath- letic farces should be sufn~ient incentive ================-.to give the fielcl athletics the impetus that WE ARE pleased to acknowledge our· they deserve·. But ren1ember one thing, thanks to the Editorial board of last year nothing can be done \\\'\ithout conscientious · and to state that nearly one-half of the training and practice. ~expense of printing this number was met by means of a balance left on their ac- count. 8EP1'EMBEH is again upon us, and one more year has been added to Union's hiRtory. The great wheel of tilne has AT the beginning of a new year we turned another quadrant and we look for shou~d look back, and seeing tl;te mistakes ward to a year of increased prosperity of of for1ner years, strive to correct th.em, the college. The ad vance in on trance re- and so now we should profit by experience quirements, the ~rrangen1ent of the course in the several branches of athletics. ''A ' allowing classical students to take up the place for everything, and everything iu its study of the modern languages in con-

2 THE CONOORDIENSIS. nection with their regular work, the in-· of last year and will make every effort to troduction of practical laboratory work in· be a credit to the college students and an the natural sciences, all show that the work organ devoted to their interests. To do of improving the departments and build- . this we must have the suppo:t·t of every ing up the course has not been allow·ed to undergraduate and of every loyal alumnus. flag. .A strong spirit pervades the college, . Co-operatibn is the only means of success. ·~ among both students and professors, a ·If every one i11to whose hands this paper spirit of earnes~t and undivided work in comes would make it a matt.er of personal the interest of the college. This is Union's' interest to send us not only their sub- sowing tirne. The harvest is yet to come. scription but items of interest to the The professors are doing earnest and sue- college and co1nn1unications concerning cessful work in their classes. The course .. a[umni, the success of your college paper and college work is without doubt equal would be secured. We invite criticism of to that of any college and the students are our work and consider as a favor any sug- ready to testify that they are .somewhat gestions for irnprove1nent.. For the future superior. The finances of the college are of the paper we can best refer you to your in firm condition and are conRtantly ·in- own support and the following, articles creasing under the present skillful man- to appear two in each nurnber: ag-e1nent. The alumni are alive to the ~'Literature as a Profession\--Homer college interests, and are pledged to raise Greene, '76, winner of $1,500 Youth Com- a fund that will be a substantial and per- panion Prize. manent endown1ent. Surely the harvest \College Men, Past and Present\-Prof. can not be far in the future. The selec- tion of a president to meet the public John Foster,. LL. D., '35. \Does Journalism Pay ?\-Frank A De- Puy, '77, Washington correspondent New York Tirnes. ~'Union Alumni in the West, their N unl- ber, prominence and loyalty\-Hon. John I. Bennett, '5'4. demand is, however, an urgent necessit,y. All eyes are turned toward Dr. George Alexander as the man for the place. Thoroughly fan1.iliar with the history and interior workings of the college both past and present, at once popular with alumni, professors and students, of unquestioned \Suggestions for the Care of the Eyes\ ability in the pulpit and professor's. chair, -Dr. 0. M. Culver, '78. it can not be doubted that Dr . .Alexander \Colleges and the Ciassics\-Prof . .Bid- is peculiarly fitted for the place. It is. ney G-. Ash1nore. indeed, an imperious duty that the trustees \Social Life at Union\-A. Perkins. elect him, and au equally ilnperious duty that he accept-for if ever a man was called to a position, Dr. Alexander is called to Union. WITH this number the CoNCORDlENSIS hegins its eleventJ1 volun1e and assun1es to itself a burden that has never before been atte1npted. It will endeavor to illus- trate each nurn ber with cuts of interest to all Union rnen. It will double the issue ''Professors vs. Lecturers\-J arnes R. Monks, '65. \Military Life and Education\-. Lieut. H. EL Benham. ''The Pacific Slope as a Field for College Men\-- W. A. Waddell, '82. · '' Charaeteristics o£ TJ nion College ..AJumni\-Willia1n P. Landon., '86. '\The N evv South as a Field for College Men\ (two papers)--F. X. Ransdell, '87, Alexandria, La. ,,.

,,. THE CONOORDIENSIS. 3 ''Is Philosophical Study Profitable~,,_ this influence is strong enough to give a E. E. Vedder, '86. sentimental character to a majority of our ''Experiences . of a Oivil Engineer''-·· novels. It is not to be inferred that senti- .Prof. C. C. Brown. ·mental novels are objectionable per se, for The Rev. Lansing Bailey, '45, President· there are many examples which prove the of Adelphic literary society, while in col- contrary; for instance, we have read no lege will contribute a paper on so1ne .sub-.· 1nore entertaining, purer, or better written ject relating to the literary societivs of his. story during the year than '' Kenyon's tirne. Other articles \vill be announced Wife,\ by Lucy C. Lillie, yet it is nothing later. but a love story pure and simple. What is to be regretted, however, is that this STUDENTS V\rill find it to ,th~ir advantage kind of novel has so long been the only to patronize the business firn\ls. that are kind, that one seldom finds any new idea advertised in the CoNCORDIENSIS. A good in the1n. Ousto1n and prejudice have bargain makes the heart, even of a ri~h n1ade a conventional novel and our auth- man, to rejoice. How much more then ors have to be content with changing the ought the student to rejoice, \Vhen he characters and locality only. finds where he can deal to the best ad· In a n1ajority of cas.es vve find the same gaudy hero or heroine, love is· the ruling vantage. ~it2rarg. po\ver, all other n1otives, .all other faculties ~~~~~~~- ---=------------- FICTION OF- ·i887-.--- ·-- ---- --- are subordinated. One educated by these stories \Vould think that there is nothing The 1nost noticeable charaeteristic of to live· for or enjoy in this vvorld but that the fiction of this year is the inc1 ease in vvhich rnoral scientists call conjugal love. -the number of books. Our publishing· We have said that this sentitnental novel houses have surpassed the work of all is the only kind, there is, however, an- previous years in l)Ublishing An1erican other class of stories which are altogether stories. One ''literary pirate \ alone in too frequent-those in vv hjch the leading one of our leading cities, publishes four characters are lecl through a wonderful volu1nes a -vveek of the n1ost popular for- n1onotonous life, in which they are con- eign novels. We infer fron1 this, for the tinually rnaking superhun1an, efforts at- law of supply and den1ancl goYerns books tended by the greatest sacrifices, to follow the san1e as everything else, that the the straight path of duty. This last kind number of readers has largely increased. of story is even less valuable and enter- Couple this with the fact that the in- taining than the worst of the romances. crease seems to be principally arnong n1ale These n~ovels, appealing to the sensibility readers, \\\·e are encouraged to think that and flattering the passions, fron1 their our writers .. are at last to be relieved fron1 nature furnish very little \Vholeson1e food entire dependence upon fen1ale caprice or for the intellect, V\..-hile their sin1ilarity of sentin1ent-call it -vvhat yon will-for the conception n'lake then1 small value for succe:ss of their stories. A veTy desirab]e entertainment. state of affairs, for n1any of our writers Because of these featuees of the typical have long complained that they could not n1odern novel, for a number of yc~ars the do justice to themselves or their talents \Yritings of several different g1·oups of while co1npelled to lin\lit themselves to authors have beco1ne n1.0re and 111-ore, de- subjects pleasing to the fen1ale rnind. Still servedly or undeservedly, popular, till the

4 THE OONOORDIENSIS. . present year they are the predo1ninant novel;\ there is still to be exa1n:ined an- feature of our fiction. In point or popu. other group of writers, who, having seen larity, those which for the want of a bet, the need of progress and change in our ter term may be called sensational would literature, have to their own satisfaction con1e first. These include the African . at least discovered the method iu modern tales of Rider Haggard, son1e of Robert · realisn1. Louis Stevenson's stories, Sin fire by Julian \ V hat this modern realism is, it is very Hawthorne, Douglas Duane ·by Edgar difficult to describe or expb.in. It is not Fawcett and the like... the complete ostracism of the ideal, for No one has failed to find them excit\ none of these realists are void of ideality ing or interesting. Allan Quartermain or romance, in fact a certain amount of is a fair illustration of the kind. Its idealism is as necessary as realism. It is th1-illing situations, the sudden turns in certainly not actuality which would ueces, the narrative which startle us, the sitate too much of the common-place. It extravagant language and high color,· might be called the portrayal of life. The all tend to make it attractive. But idea conveyed by this definition carries there is no refinement, no underlying with it the idea of realism, yet it is not principles, though on the other hand the sGrictly this because an accurate portrayal author is careless in his application oi of life would often be disgusting. It sound moral principles. ::>eems to be a longing of the mind after Indeed it seems to be very questionable cruth, after study of true life. Jt is this whether such stories should be made om. Jisposition which is the noteworthy ten- standard novel.· Entertaining to be sure,· Uency of t.he period, and particularly of but can we say that they are profitable· the present year, a condition of things reading? which comes very acl:eptably. The more Another gl\oup of books which probably cealism in our literature the better. There owe their popularity to the public desire is no better antedate for the evils of the for something pew, for something fresh, convt·ntional, of the extremely sentimental are the Russian novels of Solstoi and Tur- and absurd. geneff. Marking the rise of Russian The Russian novels previously referred fiction, they are not limited by any con, to are good examples of the results of this ventional restraints : vvhile on the othe1 influence. Henry James' Prince Oosam- · hand they have all the vigor of new life. assima is another illustration. This infi.u- .Adding to this the admitted ability of the cnce should be welcomed with. much authors, and it js easily seen why they are vleasure. B_y it our literature \\\-HI be so popular. Aside from these advantages tnade 1nore profitable and n1ore healthful. of style and mode of treatment, these l'he growth of realistic ideas is by far the works recon1mend then1sel ves as valuable ~nost noteworthy feature of the fiction of and interesting pictures of Slavonic life. d:k\7. It is unfortunate that we have so few oi this class of books, and all his readers will regret that C~unt Solstoi has deyoted hin1- self to a different field of literature. So far, we have been considering onl) those books which the public have seized upon as· a substitute for the \1noderL E. s. FlARRIS '86. Dr. Henty Whitehorne, whose portndt appears n this number, has been connected with the college i.nce 1862. He has been professor of G1·eek Lan ... 1ta<re and Liter.ltHI'e ~;incl-' 1869, and since 1886 has 0 ··1<1 the position of Dt>an ot the Faeulty.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 5 . . O.AMP UNI<;>N. \Union,\ and l{ot allow themselves to for- • \ 1 get the yell, as it is often the rneans of Oamp Uuion is a~delusive title~ as it was hringing ·students here that tnight not . I 11ot a camp, but a pretty little cottage at come otherwise. Quite a little was done Ripley'~ Point, Lake George, over which in that direction by \Can1p Union,\ and waved the Union flag for three weeks last plans are being made to have a camp at sun1mer. Its inmates were Leslie R. Pratt, 1 the san1e place next surnn1er on an en- '86, N orn1an L. Bates, Fred. B. Richards larged plan. ·---- STUDENT LIFE IN GER1v1ANY. and George 0. Baker, '88, and Nelson W. Waite and Phil. S. Dorlon, '89; who were I there for pleasure and to spread \ Old I U ni.on's\ fan1e. The '~ lJ nion College Sift- ; A notable feature of student life in ,Ger- ers.\ as they were kno\\rn, had hardly un- i n1any is the absolute freedon1 of it. When· packed their ,trunks and given a preiirr1i- a Gern1an university student registers at nary yell before they organized a base ball the beginning of a se1nester, that makes nine that proved a terror to all eotners him a student for that 1)eriod, entitled to and would have brought tears of joy to all the privileges of the university and the eyeR of Johnson, '87, if he could have subject to no obligations. It is at his op- seen it. The. next thing in order was of j tion whether he regularly att~nds t~e lec- ?ourse the fair sex, and they were foun? I tures or Iabo:atory courses for which he 111 swaTl11S. HoV\r n1a.ny ruptured peri- . has entered h1s name ; there are no roll- cardiums were left behind is not stated, caUsJ no recitations and no term examina- (sun1mer flirtations are said not to pierce tions. The only examinations are at the the heart, but only to affect the pericard- beginning and at the end of the univerE?ity iun1.) I tnight refer you to one oT two of course; at the b~ginning to show hin1self the ''Sifters'·' for partjculars, but don't· educationally qualified to pursue university wish to unduly flatter. Rowing and sail- studies, and at the end to show hitTiself ing were not neglected, neither was fish- entitled to the degree vvhich he seeks. Of ing, but the fish neglected the c~unpers cuurse Inany students never come up for sharnefully. Many excursions by water their degrees, and _these have all the priv- and by land were indulged in, also straw ileges and outward honors of university rides. (Right here I will say that I cannot life without necessarily perforn1ing any of i1nagine how a fellow could hold and its duties. Any one who supposes the squeeze the paw of a base ball catcher German university student is so devoted under the in1:pression that it was a tnaid- to study that he never abuses his liberty en's soft and di1npled hand; but let that has quite a wrong idea. Hard and faith- go). Many new friends vvere made and fui work con1es no easier to the Ger1nan 1nany old. ones f1om Dorp met, including student than to the Atnerican or to those a professor, to whon1 a single glance of any other country. There is not Inuch through the cottage window told that the . doubt that iu studiousness Arnerican col- fellows were enjoying themselves. .And lege students maintain a higheT average so they did. There was not a dull or an than students of the Ger1nan universities. unoccupied hour passed by al).y one during However, it is to be borne in n1ind tha.t in the three weeks. To those of the students the gymnasiu1n, the course of study of who can1p during the vacation we would which the Gertnan student 1nust complete suggest that they fly the colors of \Old before he is admitted to the university, ·

' ! 6 THE OONCORDIENSIS. the discipline is very severe. The uni- The students, in general, rent rooms in versity does not open its doors to the stu-. private houses and get their meals, except dent until his power of study has been. the morning FrUhsUlck of coffee and rolls well developed, and then aU its privileges . which their landlady serves then1 in their are at his con1t11and, but he rnust use the In roo1ns, at restaurants. The cos·t of .living by choice and not under com pulsion. The . in this way is quite n1oderate; $2f> per ·Ger1nan boy enters the gytnnasiu1n at nine month is a liberal allowance for room and and ren1ains till he is eighteen. board. The university fees are also low, Ins~ruction in the Gerlnan universities. seldom exceeding $50 per year. is given entirely by lectures, and in the The students have societies,calledcircJes, natural and practical sciences by laboratory devoted to sociability and conviviality. work, etc. The lectures are non1inally an The n1e1nbers of the circles wear colored hour in length, but fifteen 1ninutes are caps, the colors indicating the circles to allo-\ved for students to get their places.· which they belong. Members of the same Each student bas his own seat, made his circle dine at the same restaurant. They by bei1~g taken possession of at the first have a body-servant in attendance to help lecture of the course and ownership de· then1 put on their coats, etc. They have, noted by his card tacked upon the desk.· of course, a lodge-roon1 or Knezpe, where When the Professor enters the lecture they n1eet and indulge in their bibulous roon1 the students rise and re1nain stand- a1nuseinents. Duelling, which is a conl- ing unti] the Professor takes his chair and 1non practice in at least son1e ·of the uni- adJresses the In as '' Jl!Ieine Herrn.\ The versities.~ is confined to members of the Professor has a waiting-111an in attend- ·circles. The duels are either mere conteRts ance, who takes his hat and coat when he of prowess or honor affairs over sotne enters the roorn and perfortns any other offense. A graduate of one of the uni- services needed during the hour. The versities vvho wore a large scar on his students are invaTiably orderly during the cheek\ told the writer that he received it lecture. An incident will illustrate this : in a duel to which he had been challenged One day in the first vveek of the se1nester for failing to bow to a n1ember of another the gas suddenly went out during the pro- . circle, who1n he met on the street1. but had gress of a lecture, lea v lng the roo1n quite no acquaintance with at all. Those who dark. There was no demonstl\ation no ·indulge in duelling seem to be proud of disturbance whatever. The lecturer sim their s.cars, at least for the titne they stay ply paused until the servant had lit the at the university. I did not hear tha.t\ the gas and then went on. Lectures are held students have any athletic sports. at all hours of the day fro1n eight in the The Ger1nan students are gentlemanly 1norning till five or six in the afternoon. in their bearing toward one another ; they The nutnber of students attending a lee- are polite and obliging to Americans or ture varies, o:f course, according to the. other foreigners who may be among them ; subject and the total nu1nber of students they are no doubt greatly devoted to their at the university. In the largest universi- · peculiar custo1ns, but in these, as in all ties there are com1nonly from one to two other phases of univers~ty life, doubtless hundred. The total number of students . the principle of pers0nal liberty (I believe at the university of Munich last year was .they have the phrase, akadi1nische Frei- .3, 350. This number was exceeded by that heit) is recognized. The relation between of only one other, viz.: Berlin. the Professor and students is rather forn1-

THE OO·NCORDIENSIS. al. Probably the Professors seldom be- reference to it from the false or abbre- come personally acquainted with the stu- -viated name. (See notes) . .dents until the time of their graduation. When you know only the name of the Graduation is a somewhat formidable editor, compiler, or translator of the book, affair. Not only must the candidate pass. you will find under their respective names examinations an:d read and defend a thesis, a card as above with reference to the au- but he tnust call upon and personally in- • thor's name ; if a book has more than one vite the Professors in whose departn1:ents · author, reference will be found under he has studied to attend the reading of the name of each. thesis, and he n1ust go to the place of In the present imperfect state of the reading in a carriage and clad in full dress. · catalogue, the manner of fin ding the con- Finally, if he is successful in gaining his: tents of the library under the following degree, he is expected to give a banquet to conditions, is rather cun1bersome and im- the Professor8 under who1n he has studied: perfect, but will be replaced as the cata- and the students who were his coUeagues .. logue is completed. Doubtless, however, 1nany of these form- When yov kriow only the title of the ali ties may be neglected without giving. book, look in the printed catalogues of the offense. · Brooklyn library or of the Boston Athe· The writer 1nay add, in conclusion, that: naeum, which are placed by the card cata- the statements here given apply directly· logue, under the first word not an article to the University of Munich and only by· and reference will be found to the author's inference to other German universities. · or editor's na1ne, and, by use of author JAMES STOLLER, '84. catalogue as above, it can be found -vv hether it is in the library or not. THE l.JIBRARY. Vli7~en you know only the sub}ect of the book, or wish to know what there is in the Most of the students who were here last library on a particular subject look in the year are already fan1iliar with the college above na1ned catalogues for the spec'ific library but for the benefit of newcomers subject itself and not under any compre- we give the following information : hensive subject, e. g. if you are looking Hovv TO usE THE LIBRARY. for a work on Algebra, look for it under When you know the author's name look that name and not under Mathematics and for it in its alphabetical place among the you will find Hst of authors and titles of cards, in the card catalogue, and if the books on that subject. If, however, you book is in the library, you find a card giv- are· seeking the ge1ieral subject Mathe- ing: 1. The author's full name, if known; .1natics, you will find all general works on 2. The exact title of the book ; 3. The that subject entered under Mathematics, place and date of publication; 4. The with reference therefrom to ..Algebra, or number of volumes ; 5. The size of the any other specific branch of the general volume or volumes. . subject. Direct reference to the shelves When .you know only the false or abbre- where all books on a subject are together viated name assurned by the author look will also ansvver this question but will not under that name and you will find a card give cross references or references to col- .as full as that just described, unless the· lected works that the catalogues contain. author;s name has been discovered, when To find rnagazine articles on any subject you will find the full card under it, with look in Poole's \Index to Periodical Lit-

8 THE OONOORDIENSIS. erature\ and its quarterly supplements -·Professor Ashmore has allowed the and under the given subject, reference Juniors to select Cicero's De Officus for will be found to the volume and page, · this term's work .. treating of that subject, in the principal· -. It is said that Charley Shaw repre- English ljterary magazines and reviews. sented (?) the Union Y. M. 0. at Round · Look also in the general or special cyclo- Lake last summer. pedias under the given subject, and articles --On Thursday, 29th inst., double and will be found which, at their end refer, to single tennis contests will occur upon the more complete works on the subject. campus. ' When you have found the book you are· seeking in the catalogue, its sl1elf location -·The college has an Equestrian club . co1nposed of Bates '88, Baker 'SS, Culver will be found })enciled in the up· .per leit ''8H,. Voorhees '80, Rob_ ertson, '91. band corner of tlie card or the librarian will direct to, or procure it. -The Sopho:more having beavers were NoTEs-· 1. Initials have been alpbabetizPd undt·r scarce this year. It was not the Sophies' the last one,. e. fl., the initials ~- G. H. would ~· . fault however but the fault of Dorpian found under H., A. G. 2. Compound names, If · . ' ' · . English, a1~e uuder the last part; if fortign under the tradesn1en. firs~. s. Surnarno s pr.~ccded by prdix.,g are .entered V- (MARRIED-. Geo D Buell '8 7 to. Miss as follows: lu aU joreign languages und<'r the word . · · . ' . ' . foHowing the prefix, e. (!., von Holst under Holst;.· OaTrle Page of New York) Buell has in English und .. ~ t~e prefix, e. JJ.' DeQ•dney. 4 · · broken the ice in '8'7 and we expect to an- Proper names uegwrn1ng .lVf1, Me, St., are arranged as . . . . · . . if spelled .i\lac, Saint. 5. lu the case of a biograph) nounce hke fate 111 the others Ill rap1d sue- an eutry wiU be ~·ound under the subject of the biog- · cession. raphy a~ well as Its author. -- Landon, '86, and Kastendieck, a fornl- ~ 1 er mernber of '87, ar~ frequently seen in \ o c:n s. -----~------------·their practice suits on the campus, show- -A field dav will be held this fall. . , . ing that they still retain their passionate ·Jove of athletics . -'88 and '89 have each t\\vo new men. -'89 defeated '90 at football bv a score \' -· Fortnightly college meeth1gs will be f 18 t o E p T ~88 f o . o . · ·. · . . owne, · , re eree. the order this year. '90 defeated '91. Score 14 to 0. 0. W. -Culver '89 has been chosen captain of Culver, 'S9, referee. .A game has been thA foot-ball eleven. arranged between the College eleven and the Medicals. -The Sopho1nore class will hereafter be compelled to drill. -Pe1·kins, a former member of '86, has returned to college and entered '89. -The old idol is again brilliant with the Freshn1a11 class colors. The Freshmen are vigorous. -Lieut. Benham, it is rumored, will study law when l1is detail at Union termi- nates. -The SenioT and Junior Classical divi- sions have begun the study of German together under PTofessor Wells. -The campus is in a splendid condition and the entire surroundings of the college look more beautiful and inviting, if pos- sible, than ever before. The graveled walks and drives have had especial care. -Prof. of English to Sophon1ore : '' So you had a pleasant time on your vacation!'' \ Oh, yes, but I didn't gain much flesh. ,., Prof.: '' HoV\rever you will now after your return. ''But, Professor, I'm in the Englis_h de-· partm.ent.\ Exit Professor hastily.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. ·-During the summer regis:·ers were course in addition to present requirements. pu-t, in the main room of the library. This In 18811, the same V\Tith six books of Vir- is a, wise provision and shows the in- gil's Aeneid an9: in 1890, Ancient geogra creased popularity and usefulness of the phy and six orations of Cicero. library. -A regular n1eeting of the Philon1~- ---We think it our ilnperative duty to theon soci~ty was held Saturday, Septem- re-echo t.he annual 4 ' chestnut ~' and com- ber 17, and the following officers chosen : -plaint of the refrigeratorial condition of the President, P. H. Cole, '88; Vice-President, bath roon1s. The health and cleanliness J. E. Winne, '88; Secretary, E. F. Pick- of the students de1nand that fires be kept· ford, . '90 ; Treasurer, J. H. Hanson, '89 ; in these roo1ns. , Librarian, E. L. Carroll, '89 ; Executive -The longed for change in the classical Committee, E. H. Wimans, '88, M. Nolan, course has come. Hereafter our classical '89, F. L. Carroll, '90. students can acquire a needful knowledge -Professor Wright has recently com- of German and French-a want which· pleted a book on ~'Mechanics\ which will forn1er students of Union have severely hereafter be the text- book of the course. fe]t. The change will not fail to benefit. Professor Wright is also the author of a the course. treatise on the ''Adjust1nents of Observa- -It is gratifying to note the steady and tions,\ which is at present a text-book in excellent work of the two literary socie- · Columbia College. ti€s. They seen1 to have taken a new life. -. The following officers of the Adelphic L(jt there be, no n-:1ore talk of a com bin a- Literary Society were elected at a meeting ti()l1, but let us have plenty of public de-· held Saturday, September 17 : President, bates. · L. M. King,, '88 ; Vice-President, H. 0. -A meeting of the Foot-ball Associa- Mandeville, '88; Treasurer, C. W. Culver, tion was held September 15 and the follow- '8V ; Secretary, H. T. Mosher, '90, The ing officers elected:. Captain, 0. W. Oul- society will hold its usual regular meet· ver, 'b9 ; Director, ],_ D. Lewis, '88 ; ings throughout the term and will fully S€cretary, C. Johnson, '90. A series of sustain the reputation it gained last year. class games will be played in order to pick -.As everyone expected, the faculty has out an eleven. refused permission to play foot-ball with -The following is the Committee on R. P. I., owingto the excitement attending Junior Hops : Voorhees, Psi Upsilon ; Dor- the base-ball game of last spring. The lon, Delta Phi; Conover, Phi Delta Theta ; faculty of Williatns take the same stand. B~rsdow, Sigma Phi ; Flannigan, Delta Altogether the students of R. P. I., by Opsilon ; Hunsicker, Kappa Alpha ; Har- reason of their slightly erroneous idea of der, Belta Theta Pi; Pierson, Alpha genuine college spirit, see1n to be isolating Delta Phi ; Whalen and Turnbull. Hops themselves from other institutions. will be held the same time and place as -When the terror-inspiring Sopho- last year. mores were '' setting up \ Freshmen one -It is stated upon reliable information night they ordered two Freshmen to lug a that at the entrance examinations of June table fro1n south to north college while and September, 1888, Latin gran1mar and they marched behind. Reaching north four books of Cresar's comm8ntaries will college the Sophies very foolishly ran up bB required for entrance to Scientific stairs for a few n1inutes leaving the Fresh · .

10 THE OONOORDIENSIS. and the table at the section entrance. 'H2-Ja1nes T. Joslin, .forn1erly a drug- When they returned the Freshn1en were_ gist in Newburg, i1ow resides in Schenec· there but not the table. It is the first tad:y. time in years that Sophs have been taken 'f)3-· Thos. H. Fearey has been appoin.t- in by Freshn1en. . ed P1 1 ofessor of Physics in Vanderbilt Uni- -At aeollege meeting held inthechapel versity. A Nashville paper, commenting Friday, September 16, it was decided to upon_ the appointment, says that \bring- hold a :field day this fall and also to boom i:ug with him a broad culture and learning foot-baH alone, instead of running an acquired from his Alma Mater, and the eleven and a nine as in former years. The Universities of the Old World, he will add following com1nittees were appointed: To' ·greatly to the strength of the faculty.\ colleet money for foot-ball, Bates, '88, · ; '64-Edward. W. Paige,. a trustee of Do:rlon, '89, DePuy, '90, Conant, '91; On. Union and now a lawyer in New York field day,. Kennedy, '88, J)illinghan1, '88, • city., -received the degree of LL. D., at the Snowe, '89, -McDonald, '90, McDonald, '91. ··last ,commencement of I-Iobart. Professor On lawn tennis, Towne, '88, Voorhees, · Ashtnore beca1ne an L. H. D. at the same '8'9, Athey, '90, Robertson, '91. . tilne. '67-· Horace C. Stanton, Ph. D., was tl·~ttsonals. latelr compelled to resign his pastorate in Albany because of poor healLh, much to '38-0larence Walworth, the venerable the Ilegret of his large and steadily grow- , father of a Ro1nan Catholic church in AI- • ing congregation. We hope fo1~ his speedy bany, was made LL. D. at the last meet- . rec9-v€ry. ing of the Board of Regents of New York · ''70-Major W. 1-I. 111apes, a pron1inent · State. officiaJ of Orange county, N. Y., and a '4u, '45, '52, '60-Geor.ge F. Danforth, 1ne1nber of the late Republican State Oon- LL. D., '40, and Hobert Karl, LL. D., '45, ventjon, paid the college a visit a short are co-laborers on the bench of the Court time ago. of Appeals of this State. vVhe11 OolunJbia I '7!J-Edward P. White, of An1sterdan'l, College held her centennial celebratioi1 re- was [Il<liTied Septe1nber 7th to a young cently she was desirous of confer1·j11g de lady ()f Leroy:- N. Y. grees on 1nen whose l'eputatjons vYouJd 'tH}-Dr. Willian1 J. Gibson was 111arried · add brHliancy to ihe occasion. Judge Ear] in August last to an e.sf.in1able you11g was selected as the rep1·esen1ativeof Union lady of Philadelphia, where G-ibson is e11- to receive the degree of LL.D., although joying a handson1e practice. previously honored in il1e t:anl e way by : '80-- McMaster is practicing law in Bir- his own alma mater. He w_iih George A. mingha.m, Ala.(havi?g remov~d there Hardin, LL.D., '52, of the Supreme Court, after t,he great quake 111 Oolun1b1a, S. C) and United States Senatol' Warner 1\!Iiller, ~ 'SO-H. rr. Thompson is editor of the LIJ. D., '60, were a con1mittee to receive DarliJ1gton (8. C.) N evvs and the father of Governor Hill at the recent Herkin1er an ex(;e€dingly interesting daughter. county fair. Such talent do the farn1ers 'SO-W. H. Sadler has an engineering of New York State command. positio11 in Freeport, Ill. '48-WiJlianl J. Stillman, who bas been '80-· ''Ickier & Benedict\ is the title of· U. S. Ooi1sul at Ron1e and Crete; is now the :pri11cipal real estate firm in St. Paul, in London, Eng. 1Y.Iinn.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 11 · '81-· Neagle is practicing law at Omaha. -Buell is studying law at South Balls- '82-Herbert ·0. Hines has accepted a ton. call to the pastorate of the Second Re- -Cameron is engaged in the lumber formed· church of this city. business at Albany, N. Y. '83-Franklin ·is Principal of District -De Forest is working wi~h the Cham- School No. 7, Al hany. ·plain Canal engineer corps. '84-Heatley and Mynderse are both l -Fur beck is study~ng at .theN ew Bruns- practicing medicine in this city. wick Theological Seminary, New Bruns~ '84-Young is practicing medicine at wick; .N. J.. . . .. Hagaman's Mills, N.Y. -Guhck 1s studying at Princeton Theo- ' ~4-· · Kern p is making a specialty of Latin ··logical Seminary· ?tnd' Greek 'at Johns Hopkins. -~awkes is at P~resent in Schenectady, \_ '84-· Estcourt is in the drug business at but will enter a New York: medical school. Omaha; firm of Estcourt & Co. , -Howe will probably teach in New '85-Bradley is surveying on the O~ble York city. line at Omaha~ N eh. -Huyck is a clerk in the postoffice at '86--Angle and Jackson are attending _LeRoy, N.Y. the Albany Law School. · I -Jaycox is teaching 1nathematics at '86-Ski:~merisstati.oneda~ Los Angelos, [Alexander In~titute, ~bite Plains, ~· Y. Cal., and IS engaged 1n a railroad survey. 1 -Johnson IS studying law at Bristol, · .;86 All · l d · th G Conn. · - . en 1s emp oye In e overn-- ment Harbor Survey at Sandy Hook, N. J. 1 -~_urth i~ now in Schenectady studying '86-· Lawler is employed in the office of\· medicine :V 1 ~h Dr. V\_an .A.llen. the State Board of Health Comn~issioners, · -Marv1n 1s study1ng law at Elizabeth- and is also a n1ember of the Board of Su- town, N. Y. pervisors for the county of Albany. -McMiUen is studying in his uncle's law 'SO-Landon is studying law in Sche- office at Grand Rapids, Mich. nectady. -.:McMurray is with his father in Lan- , '86--Van Vranken has opened a law singburgh, N. Y. . office in Schenec':ady. -Miller is Principal of a school at New- '86-Peirson is cashier in the bank of burgh, N. Y · Peirson & Pexkins, Newark, N. Y. -Pepper is making a specialty of mod- I '1'\8-TenEyck is in Omaha practicing ern language preparatory to teaching. Is law. located in Schene~tady. , --Phillips is Professor of Mechanical WHAT '87 IS DOING. \Engineering in Purdue University. · -Radliff is an electrical engineer in the · -Ashton is teaching in Cary Se1ninary, . €mploy of the Edison Machine Works. Oakfield, N. Y. . -Ran.sdell is Principal of the public ·-Bennett is studying at the General schools at Lake Providence, La. . Theologicai Seminary, ·near New York·. -Redfield is stationed at Crossville eity. . · . . , . Tenn., in the employ of the engineerin~ -Bridge ~s m the engraver s b~smess at de~artment of the Cumberland y alley Omaha~ F1rrn of Adams, McBride & Co.\ Ra1lroad Company. '

12 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ing corps of the Edison Mac}}ine Works. DanielS. Printup died, January 18, 1887. -Van Voast will probably enter the Mr. Printup was a colonel in the Oonfed- Albany Medical College. erate. atmy, a railroad president and a menib_ er of Congress. A lawyer by pro- -Very is an assistant division engineer· in the employ of the Kansas City & Omaha fess~on, he was one of ·the bright orna- Railroad. ments of the illustrious class of '46. -Vrotnan is in the office of Landreth& -'49-John B. Steele, of Albany, died of Fitzgerald, civil engineers, Schen(}etadr, . paralysis in the latter part of August. N. Y. '55-· Augustus Brodhead, D. D., Q. B. K., -Root, a former member of '87 at Union, died recently at his home in Bridgton, N. and later a 1nembe1· of the sar.ne class at J. He was a distinguished clergyn1an. Yale, was salutatorian of the largest class , '66-Daniel M. Swan, after a long illne~s, that was ever graduated by that college.· died at Leavenworth, Kas., December 2, 1886. He was a member of Q. B. K., a lawyer and president of an insurance corn- pany . ' !lec:rologg. . '78-0has. · G. Davis, M. D., died Sep .. tember 19, 1887, in Orange county. THE rrYPIOAL SENIOR. '19-Judge Daniel Goodwin, the' Nesto_r of the lvtichigan bench, died during the sutnmer in Detroit. He was born in · Geneva, N. Y., November 14, 1799. Judge Goodwin graduated from Union college in 1819, having William H. Seward and Symbol; Ego. Atomic weight (taking Bishops Doane and Potter for college· a freshman for a unit), 100.. Distribution; mates. He studied law with John 0. Spen- is found in all colleges, and rarely in tech- cer at Canandaigua, then regarded the nical schools. Analysis and method of ablest lawyer in the state. · Not long after, identijication.-The leading characteristie in 1825, Judge Goodwin went to Detroit. of the subject is dignity augmented by a He was United States district attorney un- silk hat. The last is not absolutely nec- der Jackson and Van Buren. ei'he patriot essary, but is very desirable. The subject war in Canada occured during his term is enveloped in a halo of dignity that is · and he prosecuted the Americans who often visible to the naked eye long before took part in it. The excitement was so the subject itself comes within the range great that h~ was in constant danger of of vision. The Appolo-like side whiskers his life. and was frequently guarded and hirsute chin are also leading char- through the streets by personal friends. acteristics. (See junior class history in In 1843 Judge Goodwin was appointed Garnet of '88, p. 28.) judge of the Supreme Court of Michigan. Experiments and characteristic reac- In 1851 he was elected judge of the Upper tions.-Oombined with a junior there is . Peilinsula of Michigan. no reaction, but upon adding a few drops \.-· '3~-- Rev James Dunbar, died at his of class feeling, much gas is evolved at- home in Northfield, Mich, in the 74th year tended with explosions, the strength of of his age. {Jle was loved and respected which is proportionate to the density of by a. host of friends) the liquid added. According to existing '46-At his ho1ne in Rome, Ga., the Hon. -Swanker is on the electrical engineer- •

.. THE OONCORDIENSIS. 13 circuinstances. the junior is either I'edueed · world. .Theology, philosophy, state craft to a state of silence or the senior suffers and social problems are overturned, cut the loss of much dignity, generally the up and reconstructed in a n1anner beauti- former. If a sophomore is in close proxi- · ful to behold. After coming in contact mity to a senior the latter immediately . V\rith graduation the senior is entirely beco1nes coated with a compound of pity· ehanged. He hears the world's hard blows and contempt. In the presence of a fresh-. with the sa1ne feelings that a freshtnan, man the senior acts as a freezing mixture,· just fron1 a military academy where he soon reducing '' it\ to a state of congealed·. held high office with more gold braid than envy, admiration and respect. When a drum major, experiences when he is;? speaking to a professor the senior has the ''set up\ at the first of his coUege career, appearance of a sole proprietor of the and with a regretful'' How are the n1ighty college. Kept for several 1nonths in the fallen\ air he begins his life in earnest. company of a young lady, the result is GEORGE CoMSTOCK BAKER, '88. either a visit to Tiffany's or a college widow: generally the latter. With beer the .senior unites only under the most favora- · !looks anb. !lltagn~int!s . ble '· conditions,\ {symbol N. S. ). When· -''The Age of Electrici,ty\' gives a rem!trkab1y clear, large quantities are absorbed, an equal. concise and interesting history of the discoveries and a1nount of dignity is thrown down and . dev(llopments in the uses of electricity, taking the the hat reduced to a hopeless mass. In reader from the myth of the amber-soul down to the telephone of the present day. Ir. is by Park Benja- college meetings the compariso_n between· min, Ph. D., a noted writer, and is published by the senior and the other classmen is most Oha:rles Scribner's Sons, of New Yorlc strongly marked, his sense and self-pos- . - Thf!. Writer is a new literary venture of William H. sess]on· being in contrast with the con- Hills and Robert Luce, two Boston journalists. The tinual and untin1ely applause of the sopho- magazine is brimful of bright hints and .sugge~tions mores and the vacant, child-like stare of about preparing and editing manuscript, and will make its influence felt.. The success of the undertak- the freshmen. Whether lo11g soaking in : ing is already assured. and it is, as it claims to be, pschycology will remove the religious (?) \helpful interesting ana instructive to all literm·y belief fro1n a senior is still an open: workers.\ question. That will be settled when '88: . -From the press of Charles H. Kerr & Co .• of Chi- finishes the study. The result will be ea$o, come three little works: ''Aphorisms,\ by Ed- watched by scientists at home and abroad., ward 0. Towns, a collection of very bright sayings, At tinles the senior evolves what lnight sentimental, patriotic, pathetic and humorous. \The Legend .of H.:1mlet,\ by George P. Ha,nsen, late consul at first sight be mistaken for ancient his-: at Elsinore, In Denmark, and '·I) 1 ogress from Pover:· tory, but which upon close scrutiny proves· ty,\ an answer to the George theories, by Giles B. only to be a \ when I was a freshman\ Stevens, a sound. sensible argument. story. But the most amusing and in- teresting experiment that can be performed SPECIAL NOTICE . With the SUbject iS to place hjm UpOn the . We believe that the \Conco1•cliends\ will be accept- t t h h t · th able to the majority of Union men and to save trouble COilllnenoernen S age, W 811. e ac S Ill 8 we adopt tl1e following plan of mailing · •bl b Th.is cnpy of the \Concoi'<liensis\ will be sent to stu- lllOSt incomprehellSl e manner ; y 0118. dents and Alumni gra.tis. -\11 those who do not wish - to beco1ne snbscribei'S will please retu.I·n, Inat•ked I·e- sentence he destroys principles and theories fused, or notify US by p«lStal. If, after mailing two numbers, we receive no reply, · that have been perfected by centuries. we will transfer your name to 1,•egu.lar Illailing list and send bill in February, 1888, understanding th.at you Nothing is too deep or too venerable to desire the paper. ~ Hespectfully, ld I · \THE CONCORDI.I£NSIS,\ scape him, he wou · revo uttonize the Box ~ts, Schenectady, N. v. ..

·, ADVERTISEMENTS. SMOKE THE BEST! Pure Tobacco! Pdre Paper! ;..':Jweet Cap oral, Full Dress, Sportsman's, ·Caporal; Caporal 1-2. St. Ja1nes l-2. KINNEY BROS.' STRAIGHT CUT. KINNEY TOBACCO CO. (Successor to Kinney Bros) NEW YORK. . CLARKE, OA 'I,ERER -·TO-· J3ANQUETS, WEDDINGS .AND PARTiliJS, 94 Hudson A venue, Albany, N. Y. HARMAN OONSA UL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in ' . BOO·TS SllOE'S AND l{UBBEI\S, 260 STATE :ST., SOIIENEOTADY, N.Y. Every genuine Cigarette bears a FAc-srMILE of Reserved for CAVIT & 00., KINNEY BROS.' SIGNATURE. ----------- · ENORAVERS AND PRINTERS, A CARD TO CIGARETTE SMOKERS. Owing to the persistent attem.pt of nu- merous Cigarette Manufacturers to copy in part the brand name of the ''Richmond Straight Out,\ now in the twelfth year of its popularity, we think it alike due to the protection of the consun1er and ourselves, to warn the public against base imitations, and call their attention to the fact that the original Straight Cut Brand is the Rich- mond Straight Cut, No. 1, introduced by us in 1875, and to caution the students to observe that our signature appears on every package of the genuine Straight Out Cigarettes. ALLEN & GINTER, Richmond, Va. ALBANY, N.Y. Established 1840 . • c. E. WENDELL & 00., FULL STOCK AT LOWEST PRICES ! 89 .AND 91 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N. Y. c. G. CRAFT, -DEAI,ER IN- FINE CL01'HING MEN'S, YOUTH'S AND BOYS' .. 18, 20, 22 and 24 James Street, Cor. Maiden Lane, Albany, N. Y, /

ADVERTISEMENTS. WILSON DAVIS, coNRAD GCETZ, ME-RCHANT TAILOR, MERCHANT TAILOR, NO.SCENTRALARCADE ' ,.. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 237 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. Perfect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. ~~~~--~-------- wooD BROS., BARHYTE & BIROH, MEN'S FURNISHINGS, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSfERY, NECKWEAR, OOLL.ARS, OUF'FS. Goons RECEIVED FOR TROY LAUNDRY. 733 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. J AS. SANDERS' SONS,. Diamonds, Watches, Jewelry and Clocks. OPTICAL GOODS, ETC .. MAKERS OF COLLEGE FRATERNITY PINS. 233 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 203 STATE STREET, W. T. HANSON & CO., DRUGGISTS AND AP~THECARIES, FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Proprietors of HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. -DEALERS IN- Bet,BI AND i'rA.'fEeQNKllT, PAPER HANGINGS ANJJ DEOORATI01VS. A FULL LINE OF COLLEGE TEXT BOOKS. Rooms Papered at Short Notice. 23~ State Street ' Schenectady, N. Y. --~------·-- L.A. YOUNG, PI.6.NOS, OBCA1~-S, -AND- MUSICAL MEROH.ANDISTiJ GENERALLY. DoMESTIC AND OTHER FAMILY SEwING MACHINES. Arcade Block, Schenectady, N. Y. t. -~ AUGUST SCHMIDT, SHAVING -AND- HAIR DRESSING PARLORS. 203 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. TOILET ARTICLES. DHUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. OPPOSITE GIVENS HOTEL. (Up-stairs.) DR 0. J. GROSS, DENTIST. CROWN AND BRIDGE WORK. OFFICE HOURS 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. 437 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. GLOBE HOTEL, Cor. State, South Pea1·l and Howard Sts. ALBANY, N. Y. Rates $2.00 per Day Entrance 7 S. Pearl St. JAMES A. HOUCK, Prop.

I' ADVERTISEMENTS. ~--~--------------------------~------~~~----~------~-------- R. K. QUAYLE, A, BROWN & SON, ALBANY, N. Y. ESTA:BLISHED 1829. -DIPLOMAS, VIEWS, PORTRAITS--- WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITA- TIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. ORIGINAL DESIGNS WHEN DESIRED. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC 00., 48 NOR1,H PEARL ST., ALBANY. REDUCED RATES TO STUDENTS. College Views and Faculty Pictures Kept in Stock. s I E. MILLER, JR.' --o~MEN'S·OUTFITTER~ NECKWEAR, UNDERWEAR, HosiERY, GLOVES, ETC. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts and Coats, Norfolk Jackets, Knee Pants, and Bicycle Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 AND 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY. REEVES RESTAURANT, Alwavs Open to 1 o'clock Every Night where OYSTERS AND LUNCH CAN BE HAD. SHAw & ROBINSON, MANUFACTURERS OF 302 STA 'rE. ST., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. • REESE & HARTLEY, --DEALERS IN--· CHOICE GROCERIES & PROVISIONS The largest and most complete assortment of TOBACCO, CIGARS, CIGARETTES, PIPES, ETC., IN THE CITY. CoRNER OF UNION .AND ROl\IEYN STREETS. ED. L. DAVIS, UNION STREET PHARJY.i:AOY. Cor. Union and Yates Streets, . SCHENECTADY, N.Y. J. V. VROOMAN & SON, -ESTABLISIIED 1854- Dealer in MEN'S CLOTJII TO ORDER. 9 HARDWARE, STOVES, TINWARE, 41 WASHINGTON AVENUE, PLUMBING, STEAM AND HoT-ArR FuRNACEs. All Plumbing; Steam and Gas Fittling promptly attended to. ALBANY, N. Y. 138 & 140 State St., Schenectady.

ADVERTISEMENTS. ------··- --------------- --------~---\--~~~-~----- - . - - -· -· .. THE EDISON :MANUFACTURERS OF :MACJIINE WORifS, EDISON ELECTRIC SCHENECTADY, N. Y. INSULATED ·vVIRE . ' Light macbinery, UNDERGROUND • TUBES AND CABLES SPRAGUE -FOR .ALL-- Electrical Work. Electric Motors, etc., etc. SHAFri~G, PULLEYS AND GENERAL MACHINERY. Mixtures for Pipe or Cigarette. THREE KINGS, Turkish Perique and Vi1·ginia. MELLOW MIXTURE, TMrlcish and Perique. TURKISH and Vi1·ginia. PERIQUE and ViTgtnia. GENUINE TURIUSH. Flake Cuts Especially Adapted for the Pipe, VANITY FAIR. ··· OLD GOLD. SA L.AMA. G UNJJ I, a New Granulated .llfixture. . Fragrant Ya.nity Fair, Sutlerlative and Cloth of Gold STRAIGHT CUT CIGARErfTES, People of refined taste, who desire exceptionally fine Cigarettes should use only our Straight Cut, put up in Satin Packets and Boxes of 1 Os. 20s. 50s and 1001.'}. We take pleasure in announcing that ~ve are pTepared to s-upply . . 'Without dela11 OO:LLEG I: F±<,ATE&NITIES -WITH OUR- SATIN STRAIGT:IT OUT CIGARETTES J>ack~d in FRATERNITY COLORS. Also CLA.SS and COLLEGE COLORS. Name of ::;ociety can be insert('d on label if dt>Rir~d. Our Cigarettes were never so fine as now. They cam1ot be surpassed for purity and excellence. Only the purest rice paper used. Esrr.A.BLisHE:P 1846. 14 FIRST PRIZE MED.A.Ls. W. S. 'KIMBALL & CO, Peerless Tobacco Works, Rochester, N. Y MARBLE HALL. Gentlemen's Cu~tont Departm(int. (Second Floor Front) ~SPECIAL TO STUDENTS. The young gentlemen of \OLD UNION\ are respect- fully invited to note our remarkable proyision for A UTUMN-1887 -8-WINTER . In Superb Foreign Cloths of prevailing styles, tones and weights, strictly our own Importations. The~e are made 11p to order from Sterling, Standard Plates by our Artist Cutters and carefully c~hosen Corps of Custom Tailors. The completed work unrivalled in the Great FaRhion Centers at a third more cost. Our New Departure in Ready-l\1ade Firf-lts and in Top-Coats will -prove a revelation to callers, sharing the honors with our To Measnre Outfittings. We shall be pleased to add .to our number of College patrons. Respectfully, MORRIS GROSS, Importing Tailor and Clothier, 336, 338 River St., extending through the bloc£ and including 13, 15 and 17 Front St., THOY, N.Y.

ADVERTISEMENTS. Merchant's Gargling Oil. . ~ 00 00 Trade-Mark Registered in U. S., Great Britain and other Countries . Oldest Liniment of the United States. CURE:-) Foot Rot in Sheep. Garet in Cows. Yellow Wrapper for Animal and White for Human Flesh. CURES SPECIAL NOTICE. m= Ask your druggist for Merchant's Gargling Oil Lini- ment, manufactured at Lockport, N.Y., U.S. A., and take no other. All we ask is a fa.ir tl'ial, but be surP and follow directions. Merchant's Gargling Oil and Mm·chant's Worm Tablets are for salt> by an druggbts and dealers in genera.! merchandise throughout the 'vorJd. LARGE SIZE BOTTLE GARGLING OIL £0. 4, 0. ($1.00.) MEDIUI\f SIZE, £0. 2. 0. (50 cents.) SMALL SIZE, £0. 1. 0. (25 cents.) MERCHANT'S WORM TABLETS PER BOX, £0. 1, 0. (21'> c.) MANUFACTURED BY Roup and Cholera in Poultry. Mange in Dogs. Merchant's Gargling Oil Company, Lockport, New York, U. S. A. JOHN HODGE, Secretary.

l\.1 t:\rc' l1 :11·1t (} < 1 rg 1 i 11 g ()il. rr Trade- Mark Registered m U. S .. Great Britain and other Countries. ----~ ---- -. r- Oldc~r Linin1l'nt ( )f the L nitcd States. t'' t' •. I. I- , r · '• I I . I' ' . . ·: I ' f . ' ' '' ' I I 1 • - _.. I ' _, ' , ' i I : ~ ' . f' :,:1 ' \ I , I 0 \ '. , : , , 1 J ·. 1 •• •• r ' : 1\1.1 .I: ,I·'' :- t: ', i: I/ I I. -·: : I ; I. \:,I. 1.1\ I' '•II. ~·· 1 '' ..: ! . '' I •: I . i ·-; /' - ·1 ·. I · • · · ~ i : ' f· I '. , . I I\ 1.1 : .... ,., I: j:l '\ !_'•I I. . -~··. '. I I I i : I .... \LI!I_;._:-,. Ill ,,, ·~·-.._ Merchant's Gargling Oil Con-:p~-~ny, Lockport New York, ·u. S. A~ JOHN HODGE. Secretary.

CHA.S. G. ELJ.,IS, Pres~t. W .A.L'i'ER McQUEEN., V. P:res,.t. ADVERTISEMENTS. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas.. ,A..LBERT J. Pl'l'KIN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCO,MOTIVE WORKS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Locomotives ofStandard Design for all Classes of Service, or from Designs Furnished by Railroad Companies. ANNUAL CAPACITY~ 300. :1888 .. ~848. . '' TI-lE RELIABLE,\ -l\iADE ONLY BY- NEWBURGH, N. Y.

