: ' .... '•'j : <··: ':,·i • l J . . ·· ~ . I OOTO:SEE,.1SSS. <! •••• nio.n LITERARY- What Can~e of It-A Story, I Lecttlrers and Professors-] as. R. Monks, 5 Satan's Bride-Geo. C; Baker, 7 The Suspension Bridge-T. W. Barrally, 9 EDITORIAL- Sal uta tory., - - - 12 The Junior Hops, A Correction, Our Advertisers, - CoLLEGE NEws-. Foot-ball at Union, Locals, Our New President, Foot-ball, 12 PERSONALS, A Hint. ... - 12 CoLLEGE WoRLD, - REVIEW, 13 . I5 r6 .. !7 I I

UNION COLL,EGE, SCHENECTADY,· N. Y. HARRISON E. \VE:BSTER, President. :r. CLASSICAL CouRsE--The Classical Course is the usual baccalaureate course of American colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in eitl:1er of the other courses. 2. SciENTIFic C0URSE.-1n the Scientific Course the modern Ianguagf,!s are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and .Englii>h studies is increased, 3· ScHOOL oF 'C!IVIL ENGINEERING.- The student in this department enjoys advantages nO\vnere surpassed in the course of instruction, in its. collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulation of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusual facil.ities for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrumental field work. 4· EcLECTIC CoiJRSE.-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleascue from the preceeding courses, may be taken by any one who,. upon examination, is found qualified to pursue it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, MetaUurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address, HENRY WHlTEHORNE, Dea:n.ofthe Faculty, Schenectady, N, Y. DEPARTMENT. OF lVIEDICINE. ALEANY MEDiCAL CoLLEGE- Term commences first Tuesday in September and t:ontinues twenty weeks. The plan of ii1struction con1bines. clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Cheinistry and of Practical Anatomy. EXl'ENSEs.-Matriculation fee, $s; term fee, $roo; perpetual ticket, $so; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $·IO! histological course, $18. For circulars address ·wiLLIS G. TUCKER, M.D.; Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LA\V ScHOOL.- The course of instruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November z8, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found ahywhete. The law library of the State is open to students.; the General Terms of the Suprem~ Court of the Thi:td Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition, $so eacb term, in advance; $130 each year, in advance, For information address PRoF .• HORACE E. S.l\HTH, LL.D., Albany, N.Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. • • • • • • • • ~ t This Department of the university is lo<aa!ted a~ Allfany ,4:and ~s .. a~~ol;cf.espeiiwtlY.atl:Jt; A:stroifQ)nYr and Meteorology. For information address ••• • :a: ~ f..t. • • •.sot. fie etc~ ,z . •s ••• s C¢. ~ ¢ c r (c. ¢... • • • •• ¢¢. tt (. t( c (; ¢ PRoF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N.Y •. \. • • • (; '.c :tit a:lt t f.. v ( • .o •••• •· ~ ALBANY/od>£tf-rfi:ci~.~ PHARMACY. ALEANY, N. Y.-For information apply to PROF. \VILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D. ' ' ~ f I ·I \ •,

•·. ., . ' .. ~ ' . .... . , .. ... ,~ ; > • . ' 1i ··~.l ... ·! • ~ o<t ' •• ' .-;.~ •. :! 'ct '1· ·, : '( -'·

ADVERTISEi11ENT.S. Fl :\E Ct >~FEC1'IO:.'\ S, BCJ~ H< L'\S Ai\D CIIOCULATES. Abo fith..: line of Fancy Good~ and Bonbonkrt~ . 35 :'\:01~'1'11 PE.\RL STREET, . \LB;\N\', :'\. Y. ~ Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, .1.\Ianager. ---,-~~ ---- ~ ~ '-~- ~-~~-~-~ ~-- ----------~- - TROJAN STEAM LAlT~DRY, --- 115 SO[TT/1 CE.VTRE STREET. 'fhe ttndL'r~i.~ned ha~ had elen.>n _YL'ar:-. c:-.:pcril'llce 111 the Laundrr hu~irte':'s -in Troy, and the procluc- tion ot thi~ Laundr\' is St_'Cond to none. Erjltal fjz n•r1:v rrsj>rrt to Troy Hror!.·. (;h,e Its a trial. E:\1 :\IOTT 1 10\VD, Proprietor. L E\'i C\\SE & co., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works. I STE,\:\1, HOT \VATER, A:'\D Fl'R:'\,\CE III~~\Tl:\(1. A SPECJ.\LTY. SMITH & TALBOT, , \ I\· r Is· rs ;\ \ I) PH C)· r C)(; I\~·\ P f~J E R s. sos (new :\'o.J State St., Schenectady,~. Y. I Ian-' !Jcen the Class Photogr:1phcrs to I.) Graduating Clas~e'-, including l·nion. Stut~cllts are wclcollle. Proj~·ssoJ'.,' l)orlrail.' a11cl Collr·.!.;'l' J ·t't·-z:·s 011 ham!. t'! 'liS/a 111ft• .... ' OTTO KLEE:\L\:'\ . ..!lj Stair· ... '·)trn·t, ... \- .V. r. German & French Caterer & Confectioner. \\'eddings, Partie\ and Fcstiv:lls furnished with Cream, lcllit:s, ( 'h:11lottu de Russe. ;\;e:1polit:1n Creams, Ron!an l'u-nd1, n;s,·ttit <:~:tee, 1'1-um Pudding (:lace, Tutti Fmtti aml Fanl'\' ( lr.tn~c ami ~ong:1t Pvramids in all qvlcs, t 'hicke.n ;md · Lobster <dads, l:mH~d Tinkey. ( 'apm :ntd Larded (;;!me, etc., etc. \' Jtio raJ : Ins ll·rt~ 111, lirt~ 1 \'1) ~l1· 'EtJ 1 1 \'1) <;.; ~, ~' ~. _,J _ _.J_ ~' .)_. l\lEHCII.\:\'T '1'.\ti.OI{I:\(; llot'SI·:. ~o. '\'- ... ).)

AD l/ERTISEME1VTS. ·---------------------- FRANKLIN H. JAMEs, 57 STATE STREET, ARCIIITRCT, ROBERT T. MOJR, . (Successor to John Gtlmvur,) -DEALER IX- Books, ~tationsry and Paper Hangings, 333 State and ISO CeJzfre St., Schnzcctady, N. r. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlantic Steamship Lines. .. ' STANFORD BLOCK. E. W. BOUGI-ITON & CO., MANUFACTURING I-IATT'ERS. TROY·, N. 1r. FUR CAPS. FUR GLOVES. FUR LINED COATS. BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, N.o. 320 Sta.te Street, FINE CUSTOM WORK. Sche1zectady, N. 1'~ A FINE LIKE OF ALB.\NY, N. Y. D. R. SMITII, 505 UNION STJ?EET, Resident Dentist. CROWN WORK A SPECIALTY. ~Call and secure my Special Rates t0 Students. .ARCADE RESTAURANT, GEORGE C. ZEIZER, Proprietor. JaFties + iupplied + in+ jFGade + flall. Full Stock of Wines, Liquors and Cigars. SCHENECTAD1 ... , N. rr. HENRY McMULLEN & CO., (Successors to ANDREW McMULLEN,) Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Coal, Wood, Lime, Cement, CALCINED PLASTER, MAsoN's HArn., ETc.; Ready-made Clothing and Gents' Furnishing Goods. 306,308 and JIO Un-ioJt altd 209, 2II a11d 2.13 Dock Sts. Next to Ar.r:l.e:rioa.n ::r=::xp:ress O:ffi:::e. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Go TO L. T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, For the Correct Styles in Hats. Also a full line of Tru12ks, Bags, Gloves, Utnbrel!as, &c., &c. ,. Agent for DuNLAP CELEBRATED HAT. J • H. DEVINE, Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot-Wear, Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dtess Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies fine foot-wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. llfail orders promptly attended to. \',' i.l' ,· .. ,. tr .··.

r: i.l' ,· .. ,. tr ·----- VoL. XII. UNION ·COLLEGE, OCTOBER, 1888. No. I. LITERA.RY. What Came .of It. Fron1 his youth, Henry Wheaton had always had a great reverence for the truth. This adtniration was not an innate virtue, but one carefully incu:Lcated by his anxious parents, who, as soon as his understanding was ripe enough to grasp its tneaning, constantly strove to i1npress hitn with the celebrated 1naxin1, \ Tell the truth, and sh~une the devil.\ I atn not sure that the Ine:t-e 1~epetition of these words would have had the desired effect upon his in- fantile n1.ind, had not any divergence fron1 this excellent precept been invariably followed by severe castigation,. And there was one point in it upon \vhich he never could co1ne to a satisfactory conclusion, not even when he grew older and spent n1uch ti1ne in 1neditation upon it ; why telling the truth should shatne the devil. But be this as it 1nay, he grew up the very personification of truth ; and never did any, not even the slightest devia- tion fro1n its path, sully his lips or his thoughts until after he becarx1e, at the age of twenty-four, engaged to the sister of his college clnun, vVill Munson. The circutnstances I shall relate, then plunged hi1n into a whirlpool of falseh::>od, which nearly destroyed his fair n~une and all his hopes of hap pi ness. He lived in the ilittle country town of Nobles- boro, where his father, and I-Ieaven kn.o-vvs how tnany generations of ancestors had I ived before hitn; in fact, he continued to live there sin1ply because they had, not fron1 any advantage offered by the place itself. To enter into any description of the channs of his fiancee would be foreign to n1y story. Be good enough to tale it for granted that she was perfection in every particular but one-she told fibs ; and on this point they bad n1any disputes- she in general acknovvledging her fau:It, and pro1nising to do better in the future. One day after so1ne graver discussion than usual of this description, he gave Kitty £l severe lecture on her evi 1 propensity. I-Ie pointed out its in11norality, its tneanness, and its uselessness. There was nothing clever in it~ for any one could tell a lie with the g-reatest ease. When he paused to take breath, Miss Kitty arose, ''Just listen to 1112 a n1on1ent,\ said she. \I totally deny the justice of any of your re- n1arks ahout white lies. The oractice is neither - n1ean nor useless. Mean! How l11cU1V friends do we save frotn pain or tnortification by a harnl- less fib. Useless! Why, \vhat a world this would be to live in, if all our thoughts were fully expressed, ur1concealed by what you call lying, but what is generally tenned courtesy. And as to its being easy, just you try it-just you see if you can, at a Ino1nent's notice, invent a fib so probable as to be accepted as truth; so naturally spoken as to raise no suspicion ; and of such a nature as to itnplicate no one but yourself.\ So saying she left the roon1. He sat speech- less. Lying recotr:unendecl to hin1 as a virtue! It took hin1 so1ne ti 1ne to recover. At last he .arose and walked botne, tneditating upon vvhat she had said. \ Not easy to tell a fib,\ he thought. '' Bosh ! nothing so easy. I'll prove it by taking her ad vice.\ So he detenni ned to tell an untruth. 1nerel_y to prove the soundness .of his principles. What should be the subject of it? It then struck hin1 that the fairest vvay to test the 1natter would be to wait till opportunity offered, and then. invent a story on the spur of the 1110111ent. To afford occasion for his lie, he staid away fron1 l{itty one vvhole evening, and vvent, vvith 1nuch trepidation, on the following n1orn-

2 TilE CONCORDIENSIS. ing to call on her. lie was not a little bothered ' to find Will vvith his sister, as well as son1e othe1· acquaintances. (There was no n1atnn1a in the case, for Munson and his sister were orphans). '~ Why, where were you last night?\ cried a general chorus. '' The-·-eh? Oh, yes ; very dark- .. -very glootny; but, pray, let us change the subject. It is nothing so strange for a n1an to take an even ... ing ride.\ '~ I--whv-I-1 went out for a ride.\ \ A ride ! \ said Will. \ vVhy, I thought you were no horsetnan. Which way did you go?'' 'Vheaton hadn't bargained for this. He found hitn5elf cotnpeHed to back his 1niserable attempt . at falsehood by other fibs. fie felt inclined to draw back. No, he would teach l{itty a lesson. H No,\ ans\V\rered one of his friends, \ but when one goes at dusk in the direction of a hous·e known to be ah11ost the prison of a very pretty girl-well, if you were not engaged, I should think it very suspicious.'' Poor vVheaton saw Kitty change color, and though he felt his experitnent had plunged hin1 into deep difficulties, he deterrnined to carry the thing through~ While tryin.g to talk on other subjects, the door burst open, and in rushed Will, holding in his hand a printed notice, and appearing greatly an1nsed. \ Where did I go? Why, let tne see. I went-\ '• Why, surely,\ said Kitty, \ you didn't go with your eyes shut; although frotn what I hear of your horsetnanship, I shouldn't wonder if you had.\ That taunt aroused hitn. ~~ I rode down the Switzer Hill road.\ '' No, did you? \ said one of the others. '' I walked down that road tnyself, last evening. Strange I didn't see you. I turned to the left at Parson's corner.\ \ Oh, that accounts for it,\ answered Harry, for fear of again putting his foot in it, \ I turned to the right and catne back by the plank road.\ \Well I declare,\ said Kitty, \I a1n aston- ished. Whose horse did you ride? \ ~'Whose horse? Oh, lV1iller's.\ \What the white tnare?\ asked Will, with a queer s1nile. ~' Yes,\ Harry returned, rushing desperately on, \the white tnare.\ Will looked at }larry for a few n1otnents in a way he didn't like, and then left the rootn whist- ling. Delighted at his departure, Wheaton tried to change the conversation, but in vain. \About what titne did you start? \ asked one. \Just at dusk,\ answered Harry, for he thought this vvould account for no one having seen hitn in the streets. '~At dusk!\ Kitty exclaitnecl. ~' What an extraordinary creature you are. You vvere never known on horseback before ; and when you do go, you choose a horse known to be vicious, and set out at night on a lonely road. \tVas Hovv- ard's old house looking as gloon1y as ever? \ '~Well,\ said he, \you certainly are a won- derful fellow when you do get on horse.back. Just listen to this : NOTICE. TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS REWARD! The above reward is offered for evidence leading to the detection or conviction of the man, who, on the night of Sept. 4th, galloped a white horse through the flower beds of the undersigned and was seen prowling around his house. JAMEs HowARD.\ \ Oh, Harry,\ exclain1ed l(itty, \what have von done?\ '~ Done l Why, who says it was I?\ \Not you!\ said Will. \Didn't you say you rode out yesterday on a white horse?\ '' I did.\ ''Didn't you say you V\rent down the Switzer Hill road and turned to the right at Parson's corner?\ ~'I certainly said so.\ \Well if you crossed to the plank road at Parson's corner, you n1ust have passed Howard's. '' Yes,\ added Kitty, ''you clearly did go near his house. I an1 afraid there is tnore in this escapade than appears on the surface.\ '\Why you don't doubt n1e?\ \ I don't go quite so far as that; but the whole aflltir is very strange.\ At this ITIOinent the servant Gridley, a lawyer of the town. ushered in ::Wlr. After the usual greetings, he turned to I-Iarry. '~I congratulate

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 3 -- --------------- - ----- -- -------- ~-- -- --- -- you on the reput~ttion you have so suddenly n 1 ade 'as a horse-tnan, Mr. Wheaton, but tny pleasure is lessened son1ewhat by being retaine~l by Mr. Howard to clairn for hitn a considerable sun1 of 1noney for the darnage you did last night to his flower garden.'' . ~' Btlt--\ Harry interrttpted. '• One tnotnent~ if you please,\ said the old lawyer. \While tny client is detennined to have recourse to the ubnost rigor of the law, .shoukl you refust.~ hirn cotnpensation; he is not averse to a ·Co-1nprornise if it is in11nediate.\ '' I refuse to do any thing of the kind. Let hi n1 prove I a1n the 1nan ; but I fancy he will find it diflicult to do that.'' \ Not at all,\ said Gridley ; '' and for this very reason I advise y<Hl to accept his conditions. It seen1s that the old gentletnan, whose jealous guardianship of his daughtet you doubtless know, was going his evening rounds when you leaped his fence. Startled at such an apparition, he allowed you to approach the house without giving an alann. It was too dark to recognize the rider, but he said the horse was whit~. K~nowing of but on:e horse of that kind, I went to Miller for infornu1tion.\ \ Oh ! \ said H~tny, jubilant; for of course the stable n1an would know he did not hire a horse. '' But Miller had been out the night before, and GOuld teJl us nothing. The stable boy, how- e\Ter, who saddled t11e horse, described a gentle- tnan of your size and appearance, 1naking the tnatter n1ore certain by describing the gray over- coat I have seen you wear. I called on you at once, and discovered you had cotne here. I then asked your h()usekeeper to show 111e your gray coat. The old lady did so, and I found it torn in several pLaces, apparently by bnln1bles. I then catne here t() see you, a liberty which I kno\-v, rnadatn, yo1:r will pardon, (this to Kitty) to settle this disagTeeable business as soon as possible.\ Here was a pretty kettle of fish ! llad he been out riding \-Vi thout knowing it? Of course it occurred to hirn to tell how he vvas only jok- ing when he said l1e had been out riding; but he had been alone the whole evening. How could he prove an rtlibi.~ He hadn't n1uch titne for n1editation; for no sooner hc,Hl Gridley fi·n- ished than Kitty had her say. \ Well, I think the evidence is pretty conclu- sive; in fact, you have attempted no denial. I a(h·ise yon to settle this thing at once, and here- after, to avoid such excursions. They do not reflect too creditably ttp~n your reputation.\ This with a toss of her head and a bang of the door as she went ont. vVheaton could see but one way out of his difficulties ; that was to pay the cotnpensation den1anded by old Howard. Therefol-e, he ac- con1panied the ~awyer to his office and paid what was dee1ned a fair atnount for the dan1age he was supposed to have done. He vvas very tnuch puzzled. 1-Ie certainly had not been out for '' ride; but son1ebo\ly had; so1nebody tnust have used his coat ; sotnebody rnust have galloped over Hownrd's garden-perhaps 1nacle love to Hovvard's daughter-and he, n1iserable victin1, paid the dan1ages. Here \vas the whole town discussing his tniscleeds-1nisdeeds he had confessed; that he had paid a certain sun1 of 1noney to hush up, and w.hich he was perfectly certain he had had no hand in. I--Iow he cursed the 111.0n1ent vvhen he had detennined to tell a lie. Kitty '-Vas right about the difficulties sur- rounding a fib. Friend after frien<l dropped in to hear the details of the aft~tir, and he soon dis- covered that the itnpression prevailing in the public n1ind was, that he had tried to steal an interview with Howard's daughter. Horrified at this slur upon his character, he hurried ofr to Miller's to try and obt.ain sotne clue of the real cu'lprit. vVhat was his disgust at being presented with a bill for the use of the white tnare. This was bevond en.durance. ol ·'My good tnan,\ said he as quietly as he coulcl, \I assure you it was not I who rode your horse.\ '' Sir,\ said the stablen1an, astonished, ''not you? vVhy, the whole town is ringing with it. You are joking, JV[r. Wheaton. \Vhy, surely, you paid M·r. 1--Io\-vard for the dan1agc the horse did, and now are you going to refuse to pay for the horse ? '' He paid the tnoney-\-vhat else coulcl he do- and detern1ined to walk out to the scene of his supposed transgressions and study the locality.

I ' ! I : ·! ;, ,, ~ ', . ' J I 'I j I 1; I, I . ' '. i; I. j i '. I 4 THE CONCOitDIENSIS. Being steeped in falsehood, he thought he r:nig ht as well carry things \Vith a high hand, padicu- larly since he had paid the expense of the ex:p e- <lition, and so he went to look around and pr€- pare to answer all the questions which for t:he next week would doubtless shower upon l1itn. Harry arrived about sunset and began observa- tions. Howard's house was sotne way baclc fr\'0IH the road, and ahnost hidden frotn sight by an in11nensely high fence. Great Gods! thought Harry; and atn I supposed to bay·e jun1ped '<i1Ver that? I wonder who the feUow was! What a rider he 1nust be ·~ He then approached the fence, and peering over, scanned the enclosure. He didn't look long, for he perceived a youRg lady walking near. I-Ie no sooner caught s1gh:tt of her than he cautiously withdrew, fearing tbat if she were to see hin-:t she would raise an alann, and really place hi1n in the predicatnent w hie 11 every one supposed hirn to have been in the eve- ning before. As he turned round, to his intense confusion, he sa\v a lady driving down the I~O>ad in a village cart, whon1 he itn1nediately recog- nized [JS Kitty. Now, though his presetiC€ there was innocent enough itt }act, to her rhi IKl it tnust appear suspiGious. He now detern1ined to tell her the truth, \the whole truth.\ \Why said I<.itty, stopping short, \vvi1at l . 1 . ~\ are you c 01ng 1ere ,ag-azn. \Studying the locality.\ ''Upon n1y word, you take this very coolly; you first of all cotn1nit a gross outrage on pl-o- priety, letting alone the want of respect shown to tne, and then follow it up by deliberately in- sulting tne. ' Studying the locality,' indeed! and pray, 1nay I ask with what object?\ \Really Kitty, I do not think your reproaches are justified by the facts; and even were I guilty of the slight 111 isdetneanors attributed to 111e-'' ''Which are ' attributed' to you ! \ broke in_ J(itty. \ Did you ride out or not? Didn't you confess to having jtunped _Howard's fence? Heaven knows for what, except, perhaps (h.e1~e she_ began to sob), perhaps-\ '' Listen, Kitty; this story of the ride-this trespass on Howard's g-round-I give you 1ny word, so far as it itnplicates tne, there is not one vvorcl of truth in it. I never rode out here. I never was on horseback in 1ny life, I assure you.\ - --. -~ ------- + -- ---- -- ~-------- ----- ... '' Do you 1nean to say, Mr. Wheaton, that JOll did not speak the truth, when you spoke of this excursion, only this 1norning? \ '' I confess, to tny shatne, for once in rny life I descended to falsehood.\ ~' For what purpose? '' ''Merely to prove to you that telling fibs was easy; but I yield the point now; in fact, I atn inclined to agree with you.\ \ But if this be true-. -the stable boy's descrip- tion-your coat too-and then here again, ' studying the locality ! ' vVhat is the locality to you? No, I 1nust be on tny guard.. If you spoke falsely then, you tnay be doing so now. Ifyou spoke the truth then, you 11zttst be de- cetvtng n1e now. I have a right to detnancl dear proof that vvhat you say is true ; and until then, it is, perhaps, as well that we should not n1eet. Good evening.\ She drove on, leaving hi1n, it n1ay be in1ag- ined, in a very pleasant, con1fortable fran1e of mind. As b?On as she was out of sight, he strolled back into town. Now the thing \Vas becotning serious. He n1ust do sotnething. So thinking as he went, he resolved to find Will, tnake hin1 a full confes·· sion, and enlist his services to discover the real culprit. He found Mr. vVill in his roon1 with his feet on the n1antle shelf, and his chair thrown back enjoying a glorious sn1oke. \Will said he, \will you listen to n1e a n1on1ent? \ \ Well, I'll try, if it vvill oblige you, old 1nan, what's up?\ \ What's up? Nothing is up. down. My spirits are down. down.\ Everything is My hopes are '' Then send for son1e beer, and when that is down I shall be as grave as a judge.\ ''Yes, but not so sober. So just ' lend tne your ears' for a Ino1nent.\ As he told his story, Will's a~tonishtnent knew no bounds, and he burst out in such exclan1a- tions as\ Bless tny soul!\ ''You don't say so!\ \ I never heard the like ! \ and at last burst into a fit of uncontrollable laughter, threvv hi n1self into an easy chair and rolled. IIarry bore it for son1e titne. At last, however, he exclaitned. \Really Will, I see nothing to laugh Clf;

,., ,., '',' ' .·.' 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. your sister is very angry ; and I think, instead of rolling about in that idiotic fashion, you 1night suggest son1e way of finding out the villian who . . \ has cast such a stain upon n1y natne. At this he only laughed the rnore. But see- ing that Harry was becctning very angry, he gasped out: ·'' One tnornent-·-I shall recover. Ha l Ha ! \ Harry turned to leave the rootn in disgust, out Will caught hold of hitn. ''Stay, tny dear fellow ; this rascal, this ~ vil- lain,' who has so terribly tnisused you vvas-\ ''Who?\ '• I-I-- tnyself. Ha l I-I a l \ ''You l \ said Harry, atnazed. \No one else. Listen. On the tnetnora- ble evening~ I can1e here to borrow your coat, as the weather was cool, and I wanted particu- larly to see Fannie Howard. I could find you nowhere. So I took your coat, hired Miller's horse. and was the real trespasser on Howard's ground. When, on the following tnorning, you said you had been riding, I knew you were fib- bing. I led you on until I tnanaged to itnpli- cate you in the affair of the night before, and then stole out and replaced your coat. Really you behaved handsotnely about those dan1ages. Ha! Hal\ \ Oh, laugh away, confound you ! But that idiot of a stable boy-\ '' Idiot ? A deuced clevet fellow. I knew there ·would be· trouble, so I tipped hitn hand- sotnely to put any questioners on a false clew, and I think he has done wonderfully well.'' ''This 1nay be a joke to you, Will ; but its death to tne. A pretty tness you have gotten tne into!'' \Gotten you into! Gotten yourself into, you tnean. If you hadn't taken. an insane notion into your head that you could tell fibs, this never would have happened. Let this be a warning to you never to swerve frotn the tt'uth.\ '' 1~ ou are a pretty fellow to lecture tne about the truth,\ answered Harry, though I shall cer- tainly take your advice ; but I don't let you out of n1y sight, tny friend, until you have explained n1atters to I<.:itty.\ That this explanation took place, and was satisfactory, I can offer no better proof than that vVill's sister is, at present, Mrs. Wheaton. Lecturers and Professors. Most instructors find it both agreeable and advantageous to cotnbine in their class work the , forn1al lectute with questioning and topical recitations. The relative positions ·of these tnodes depend on the special condition of each .case. There are sotne branches in which the less said by the teacher, and the n1ore said and done by the class the better ; in others, titne de- voted exclusively to repetition of sentences learned frotn a book, or to the expression of ill- digested· juvenile opinions,· is altnost wasted. Fortunately, .tnost subjects allow a ju(licious use of both tnethods. The class tnay have its assigned work, either in the study of authorities as presented by a text-book, or in original in- vestigation and experitnents, and in addition to this, the teacher, frotn the resources of his richer scholarship, and vvith t~1e enthusiasn1 horn of his devotion to his specia'1 work, can in1part in a fonnal address other facts and thoughts and ideas that will be doubly valuable, because charged with the -vis ·vivida of the teacher's personality. rrhe object of this article is not to jnstitute a con1parison between t~1ese t\vo n1odes of instruc~ tion, but to protest . against their separation. There is a tendency tnanifestecl in sotne colleges to divorce the natural union of these two n1ethods, and have one set of instructors hear recitations, quiz and drill classes, and another deliyer occa- sional addresses and fill all the general lecture requiretnents of the college in a fortnight's spec- cia! engagetnent. Oue set is expected to lead their plodding disciple by daily stages slowly up the hill of knowledge; the other conducts a palace car excursion into son1e region of adver- tised attractions. The peripatetic lecturer is a tnere speaker-distinguished perhaps, eloquent, popular ; but after all, he is in this work only a traveling talker; the resident professor, if fit for his place, is a teacher with all that the natne itnplies-an authority, an inspiration and an ex- atnple to his pupils. An exatnination of college circulars recently tnade, shows that the policy of etn ploying lec- tttrers and non-resident professors to do the full work of even itnportant departn1ents, or to sup- plen1ent the results of regular instruction, pre-

>' I' I> ',' ·' \ li i I iji 'i i: ,, I ''i 6 THE CONCORf)IENSIS. vails in -n1any colleges. T'he principles of sound scholarship and honest college 111anage1nent alike conden1n the whole s_ysten1.. 1 ~ou will find it all wrong vvherever you exatl:1i ne it. These lecturers are not en1ployed on then1.es ~~here the range of knowledge is so li1nited, or the degree of public interest in the su hject is so 1o\\t· that all real educational detnand can he honest! y sup- plied in this way. Brief courses of addresses, \\\rithout study and investigation by the student, and without any subsequent ex:an1.ination tests by the college governn1ent, In tLst give superficial and transient results. The Jecture svstern in ., Inost colleges has entered departn~ents where the range of know ledge is broad, the interest deep and practical, and -vvhere success depends upon conditions that the transient, i:n1personal, and generally irresponsible relations of the lecture plan do not supply. Incleed, tlle studies n1ost often taught by }his systen1, are the very ones in which there should be insisted on at every step the n1ost careful investigation, and the n1ost patient plodding. There are coBeges entertain- ing their classes with lectures on history and civics and literature, by 1nen wlro neither knovv nor care whether the college library has even standard works on these subjects. Tl1e lectures are often only a hash, 1nore fron1 ol'd text-books vvith garnishing of a few sprays of fresh illustra- tions. But the best are objectionable, because not suitable. Atnerican college students w'h.o have not stud- ied history, civics and literature, cannot profit n1uch by eloquent discourses on con.stitutional history, nor ex parte .discussions on questions of political econotny, nor brilliant analysis of I ite- rary eras. The exercises tnay l)e vrery enjoya- ble. The addresses n1ay flatte1· the hearers with the cotn pli1nentary, but son1etin1es tlangerous, asstnnption that they know son1ething of the subject, and the speaker n1ay entertain thet11 for an hour with his theories and anecdotes. But all such learning \\Till soon fade fro1n the hearer's 1nind like \ the baseless fab1·ic o,. a drea1n,\ he- cause it has no solid foundation of slowly accu- Inulated knowledge to rest upon. Tl1e young 1nen of the colleges do not need a few hours of eloquent, philosophizing and flattering lectures so 1nuch as vveeks and n1onths of laborious study, careful investigation and inexorable class- roonl drill under the intelligent and sytnpathetic supervision of teachers who will daily direct and inspire their efforts. 1\'he student should not be listening to profound disquisitions on events when the geography, dates, deeds and charac- ters-the essential rnaterials of historic:,tl stncly-- are all unknown to hitn, nor be revelling \atnid the creations of fancy, -vvhen he could not get a thirty per cent. standing ih a fnir exan1ination upon the plain facts that underlie the lecturer's logic and eloquence. No lecture can give clear conceptions of econon1ic principles in the logic of events to 1nincls that have not by tnonths of patient plodding, cli1nbed to son1e height thern- selves in these studies. The systen1 is bnd because it stands in the vvay of better things, the instruction and influence of a pennanent teacher. It inevitablv belittles what is the true work of a college-the disci- pline, guidance and inspiration of young tninds, by the constant personal contact with lives con- secrated to the special work of tead1ing. Sup- pose that a college announces that it has secured the g-reat Dr. A., or the illustrious 1-Ion. B. for a course of lectures. Every educator kno·ws ·that these celebrities are thus selected and her- alded, in order that a tetnporary and fonnal kind of instruction n1ay be pnln1ed off as a substitute for an actual professorship. The arri\ral of a lecturer is a public confession of the need of regular teachers. If the 1nan who is at the head of a college de- partinent is not '' a prophet and king'' in all the do1nain of his deparbnent that his college enters into, it n1ay be excusable for an itnpecunious college to have son1e illt1strious personage n1ake an annual visit, and let its pupils see what it would have if it could a fiord it, although even in this c::tse the visitations should be judiciously infrequent. Not to use the natnes of the distin- guished scholars now in her faculty, suppose that Union college, years ago, had in1ported n1en to lecture to its students on Greek Philoso- phy and Metaphysics and Chetnistry, when Taylor Lewis, Laurens P. Hickok and Charles F. Chandler were giving instrncti ons daily in the class-roo1ns. How long before the~e non- residents would have seen that thev were an ele- \

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 ·--- --- ---- ------- gant superfluity? Not only would the other teacl~et·s and the students h~ive regarded such a proceeding as an insult to these three iHustrious scholars, hut the college would have been de- graded by such a piece of charlatani s111. Colle- ges do not engage such assistance except to cover ·weakness. Rochester does not hire a celebrity to lecture on Greek poetry, nor Syracuse on history, nor Colun1bia on constitutional history, nor Cornell on logic, nor Princeton on 1neta- , physics. Every depatttnent included in a colleg- iate course should be under the constant i11- , struction and direction of n .tnind su:ft?.ciently schofarly, enthusiastic and inspiring, to n1ake any ina portation of learning and inft uenc e need- less Any other policy n1agnifies a fonnal and transient relation at the expense of the honest industry of the lnen whose vvorth :Inust n1ake the college whatever it shall be as an educator of youth, and it deceives the public by giving as a substitute fot• the actual instruction and grow- ing personal influence of a professorship, the delusive fan1e and transient influence of 'tcourse of lectures by son1e illustrious visitor. A circus tnay delude rustic crowds a season or two, by the partnership of a big nan1e and a little show, but the patronage of a college ought not to be attracted by that or any other shrewd <levice. Tbe plan of 1nagnifying the reputation of an in- stitution by the association of a few great names 'vith a cotn pany of overworked and underpaid teacl1ers, is n1ore enterprising tl1an honest. The solid work of a college n1ust be done in the classes of its regular and resident teachers. If · these 1nen have strong, clear, inspir.:ing tninds, thciT cl1aracters and 1nanifold labors win 1nake the college great, for the greatness of a C()llege is prir:narily in its tnen. A corps of actual teachers who are learned, progre&sive and pntctical n1inded, who have knowledge and can irnpart it, and vYho, having sound ideas upon the, great questions that affect personal character, can in- spire tbe young n1en vvho cotne under their in- fluence with right sentitnents, \vill (lo tnore to enhance the reputation and usefulness of the col- lege than a score of non-resident instntctors. For while the nan1es of non-resident professors and lecturers 1nay swell a faculty list and give a kind of prestige to the enterprising rnanagetnent that hires then1-and novv and then a notable exception Ina y be really good work-·-. the systetn, taken as a whole, is a college fraud and a cheap kind of educational quackery. JAMES R. MoNKs. Satan's Bride. BY GEORGE COMSTOCK BAKER. There are seven events to break the n1onotony of each day at Lake George. Three n1eals and four boat landings. About as 1nany people are to be seen .at each hotel at one of these events as the other. It was the arrival of the '' Horicon \that called out the crowd at one of the largest hotels one ' tnorning in July. Everyone seetned to be in a good natured tnood. 1-r oung tnen in various negligee coshunes looked up at the crovvd of 1niscellaneous tourists and estitnated the n1nnber of pretty girls on board. Girls in sutnn1e1 finery-· generally in couples, ann in ann-shaded their eyes with the latest novel and kept a sharp lookout for 1nasculine arrivals. '\_fhe tniscel- laneous tourists leaned over the rail and sn1iled down benignly. One young fellow in spotless white sat on a big pile and invited the entire boat load to land; stating as his reasons that this hotel possessed a corner on girls, and then added regretfully, \' But we have no bar.\ This evi- dently settled the question for no one left the rail. '\Step ashore, please,\ spoke the captain briskly and the arrivals \tetered\ down the springy gang plank and passed rather enlbar- rassed through the laughing, good natured 1nob. They had just con1e from the city, and had not as yet put on their sutnn1er abandon with their flannels. The last trnnk vvas soon landed ; the cases of gin gel' ale all on shore ; the crew skipped on board ; the wheels began to churn, and after a farewell yell the crowd turned its back and went to the office for its tnail. We did not go down to the dock that Inorning, but sat or reclined on the grass under the trees. Jack \vas half asleep over a novel, Van's latest sutntner girl had gone the night before, and left him a widower, and I was lazy. So vve sleepily watched the crowd file past. A very livelv

':' I I: I ' ' , I i .i, i : ,. ! i. I j:; I, ! :I ~ ' : ' 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. girl left the walk and running over to n1e said, \ The Devil and 1\!Irs. D. can1e n p on this boat. Did you see thetn ?'' and then departed leaving tne very tnuch tnystified. '' Catne up after her, I guess,\' grunted Jack who was not over fond of that particular darnsel. I n1yself could not see the point, but upon looking at the passing crowd I started involun- tarily, for there was the Devil sure enough, dressed in a business suit and a straw hat. At least it looked like the pictures of that noted gentletnan. I never saw hirn. Minus the tail, horns, and hoofs, this rnan was the walking in1age of the evil one. TaU and spare, with coal blade hair, huperial tnnstache, and heavy eyebrc ws, and eyes that seetned to pierce one through and through. On his anu there leaned his very opposite. A Yision of golden hair, pink and cream cheeks, and deep blue eyes. In short,a retnarkably pretty, blonde child-wife. As they passed she had the air of being afraid, not of what her husband did, but of what he could do. They were seated at our table at dinner, and were registered in a rapid foreign hand rnore ren1.arkable for charac- ter than legibility, for I could not rnake out the signature at all. Of course everyone was soon talking of the111, ancl they becatue generally known as Mr. and Mrs. Devil. ~hey :kept to thetnselves however and politely repulsed all advances, that is the husband did for they were always together and he was always spokestnan. They spoke to each other in French, but their English was very pure. Now Van was a perfect scan1p, and one day at the table began to tnake eyes at . Mrs. D., which she returned in a shy~ kittenish fashion, but a flash frotn those deep set eyes stopped then1 both instant! y. If eyes could say \ take care \ surely those eyes did. Rut ''take care\ was ahvays thrown away upon Van. It was sotnethil)g he was never known to do ; and consequently he was in hot water the greater part of the ti1ne. \I teU you what,\ he said, as we stnoked our after dinner weeds, \It's a sharne for that angel to be tied up for life to old Mephistopheles ; she don't care anything for hin1 and he treats her like a sister.'' Van had yery little veneration for brotherly and sisterly rove-perhaps because one or two girls had pro1nised to be sisters to hin1. \Well what are you going to do about it?\ asked Jack cynically, \ Throw old Nick in the lake and elope?\ \ I'd like to,\ answered Van sn1iling at the thought. * * * * * We were nll surprised when a day or two later, Mr. D. took the boat and left his wife alone to be gone a few days. Upon the evening ofhis departure I was sitting out under the trees by the edge of the lake with a young lady, watching the soft tnoonlight as it danced across the water and listening to the'' slap, slap,\ of the night swells fron1 the north as they struck against the dock.. Away across the lake a girl was singing a waltz song, which was wafted dreatnily across the lappi1\g 'Water Hke a soft, sensous perfun1e. Suddenly 1ny cotnpanion spoke; we had not spoken for sotne tnotnents, words are sotnetin1es unnecessary for the conveyance of thought. \Isn't that Mr. Van.?\ and as she spoke a light boat shot across a patch of Inoonlight and into the shadow of overhanging trees. I did not notice the n1an but as the pale 1noonlight fell upon the boat, I recognized JVIrs. D. reclining on the soft cushions in the stern, dabbling one little dhnpled hand in the water. '' I did not notice,\ I said truthfully, but soon I heard Van's deep, clear voice break out in :1 song of exultation and triutnph. It vvas the ToTeador's song frotn \ Canuen.\ I understood its tneaning and said nothing. So we sat and talked of everything and nothing under the rich full tnoon. I cannot recall what I said and perhaps after all it's a good thing I can't, for who can be responsible for what he · says under those circutnstances? One of the protninent hotels has the fact blazoned atnong its rnany othet attractions, that tnore love tnatches are tnade at Lake George than at any spot. I think the claitn is valid, one seetns to breathe it in with the an1orous air. So we sat and talked. Suddenly n1y cotn- panion gave a little sn1othered cry and threw her arn1s around n1y neck. I looked for the cause of her fright, and saw two greenish yellow, incandescent eyes advancing rapidly through the

'fHE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 darkness. I an1 not a titnid 1nan by any 1neans, but I confess that I felt as if some one had dropped a hunp of ice dovvn rny back. It was Mr. D. and he never looked so like his infernal narnesake as he did when he passed, singing in a deep, rutnbling voice like the vibrations of a cannon atnong the hills the satne tnarch frotn ,,, Carn1en ,; that Van had just sung in his glad, ringing tones. I soothed n1y cotnpanion as best I could, and in this pleasant occupation nearly forgot Mr. D. * * * * * * * That evening at about 1nidnight \Fan staggered into n1.y rootn. His face was ashen and haggard as froln a long illness, his eyes were sunken and purple-ringed and upon the dead white skin, was a 1n::uk which he carries to this day. It looks as if son1e one had dashed a drop of coal black ink upon his forehead. The Suspension Bridge. BY T. \V. BARRALLY, '88. The Suspension Bridge, in its sitnplest fonn, is a platfonn hung fron1 chains or wire c:tbles which pass over towers, and \V hose ends are an- chored securely into tnasonry or the n~tural rock. A suspension bridge of this kind is free to oscil- late under t.he action of the wind. A heavy n1oving load passing over this platfonn causes defonnation of the cables, which sets up shocks ancl vibrations dangerous to the whole structure. The pdnciple defect of the systen1 is, therefore, a lack of rigidity. Very tnany tneans have been devised to stiffen the sus pens ion systen1 so that if n1ay be enabled to resist the deforn1ing action of a traveling load, and to render the whole sys- ten1 as tnuch as possible a right one. I shall describe a few of these briefly, and try to show hovv far they are successful in accon1- plishing their object, and also the objections which tnay be rnised against tben1 will be con- sidered. The con1bination of the catenary and the sus- pended bea1n or girder, is especially useful for very great spans. The theory of this, as well as every con1posite structure is, that the tvvo systen1s, if n1ade of the san1e n1aterial, shall reach their elastic lin1it sitnultaneously; or vvhether they are cotnposed of the satne tnaterial or not, the defection at any point of ~onnection shall be the smne in the t\'~o systetns. The usefulness and econotny of this syste1n has been very 1nuch increased by the inventions of Sietnens and Bessetner, which enable us to obtain wire of great strength and uniforn1ity at reasonable cost. It is now possible to tnakc galvanized steel wire cables of 70 and tnore tons, of ultitnate strength per square inch of 1netal of the finished cable. Since the capacity of elastic 1naterial for absorbing tensional in1pacts vvithin the elastic limit increases in direct ratio of the lengths, long vvkes are capable of \vithstand- ing the influence of n1ovable loads better than riveted structures or even ordinary bridge links. By good connections, five to ten per cent of the original strength of the wire is lost. Eye-bars · of twenty-five feet in length, if tnade six inches wide, require sixteen per cent additional tnate- rial for eyes and pins. If 1nade three inches wide, eight per cent is required. Galvanized steel wire of No. 8 guage can be furnished in great n1asses -vvith an ultin1ate strength of 16o,ooo lbs. per square inch. For steel eye-bars not tnore than 7o,ooo lbs. can be counted on, and for good ductile iron eye-bars, so,ooo lbs. More- over, owing to the fact that the stresses in a cable are known with great certainty, and be- cause they are always in tension, a very low fac- tor of safety n1ay be assutned. ·'I'he suspended girder not only has the office of distributing the concentrated loads and neu- tralizing the greater part of the n1o1nenta caused by one sided loads, but it also serves to fonn chords for the horizontal wincll)racing. Owing to the changes of tetnperature fron1 1nid-sun1n1er to n1icl-\vinter, the center of the cable in a long span , n1ay rise and fall through several feet. In order that the truss and cable tnay act vvith advantage, and also to ayoid tenl- perature strains, the truss is hinged at the centre and fixed on rollers at the ends. The use of in- clined stays running fron1 the top of the saddles in the towers to the truss, is very often adopted to give additional sti tfness. Stays render the accurate detern1ination ofthe trusses itnpossible; we do not knovv vvhether a load is carried by the stay and suspender at any

I. i' i j ,, ' ' ,}j : ,\ ! 1,; :,• '' . i ! IO THE CO·NCORDIENSIS. point, or by the suspender and truss, or by the stay and truss. For this reason, the use of stays has been conden1necl by a great tnany as un- scieHtific; furthennOJie, it is held that they are entirely unnecessary, since the truss is a rigid stn.1cture in itself. Mr. Chas. Bender has investigated tnathetnati- ca:ll J the theoty of a loaded elastic bean1 sus- pended frorn an elastic catenary. His investiga- tion led hhn to the belief th(tt any degree of stiff- ness ·can he g·iven to .a suspension bridge; he £Luther says .,, that additional arrangen1ents, as inclin:ed stays, are not only not needed, but lead to waste of .1naterial and labor, because the point ofa.ttachrnen.t of each stay, under certain posi- tion'S .of the tnoving load is taxed with a high tnotnent of flexure. 1'hese stays, and sitnilar additional appliances lead to uncertainty of all stt·ains, and hence to unscientific rule of thut:nb design and to distutbance, under the influences of ch.anging tetnperatures~ of the conditions of eqail i:briutn. The be~un, if properly designed, is aU that is wanted; it is necessary, and is ffi . \ su .ctent. \iVe tnust retn€tnber, however, when condenln- ing the use of stays, that they have been success- fully employed by ~fr. Roebling in the East R.ivet· bridge, and in the Niagara bridge, which has ~carried heavy railroad trains for tnany years with perfect safety. Mr. Bender introduced an arrangen1ent, which is a con1bination of both stay and suspender, and is s:tid to be very effective. It consists of wire ropes running over pulleys attached · to both cables and truss, and continues frotn end to end of bridge. These also serve to neutralize the eflects of tetnperature, and the truss tnay be built witl1out hinge. Prof. DuBois does not recotntnend the use of stays, and sa)'S in addition, that the truss should be l1orizontally fixed at ends, and that it should becontinuous and without hinge atcentre. The truss rnay be free to rnove horizontally by a slid- ing joint, which tnust not act as a hinge. This arrangetnent does not appear to be very practi- cable, since a fall of tetnperature will produce heavy, upward loads on the truss and str~in it too .Jnuch ; while a rise in tetnperature will allow the truss to carry too n1uch of the 1noving load. Another suspension systen1 is that fiTst pre- sented by a celebrated Austrian engineer, the curves consisting of two pairs of parallel chains, one above the other, and both connected by triangular trussings. At these bridges, the chains represent a stiff it?-verted arch, and are to be calculated as such. This plan was carried out for a railroad bridge of two tracks in Vienna in r85I, to bridge the Danube river. Though this bridge has no great span (being only 252 feet), it is regarded as the best and tnost cotnplete, in point of principle, of all existing suspension bridges. The proposed Nodh River bridge by Mr. Lin- denthal is a bridge of this description. It is a gigantic structure ; its n1iddle span being nearly three thousand feet, and towers neatly five hun- , dred feet in height. The supports are intended to react on the cables like hinges. For this pur- pose, the 1nan1n1oth cables rest on balancing platforms in the cable chan1bers on top of t'he towers. When one of the cables is bearing clown tnore than the other, it will raise the lighter cable till both are reacting alike. The saddles rn.ove on the platfonn independently of their balancing action. These platforrns take the place of end hinges, so that the arch ribs will act like an in- verted end-hinged arch. There is also an equiv- alent arrangetnent at the anchorages. This sys- tetn is tnore econotnical than that of the auxiliary girder, as there will be a gr~at saving of tnate- rial, since the only girders needed will be re- quired only to fonn a strong chord systen1 foT the -vvind-bracing, and will not be required to resist the action of the traveling load. Professor Ran- kine, while claitning that tnaterial will he saved by this tnode of stiffening, as cotnpared with the auxiliary girder, says that it would probably be less durable as the alteration of curvatures of the chains by changes of tetnperature, would tend to strain and loosen the connections of the braces. The balancing platfonn n1ay to son1 e extent neutralize the effects of tetnperature, hut not e~1- tirely, as the end-hinged arch is subject to quite considerable ten1perature stresses, and no ar- rangement can prevent the change of cu rvatut·e of the cables. Before such an itntnense under- taking as this structure could be thought of,



'; I i : ! .j ; ,., I I :! I I ·I '' :1 • 12 THE CQN:CQRDIENSIS. ~ <9HE ·:· @ONGOf\DIENSIS. ~ PUHLISHED MONTHLY BY STUDE!\TS OF UNION CoLLEGE. EOAE:::D OF ::E:::D!:TCE.S. J AME~ HowARD lli\:r-.soN, 'Sy. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. L. L. CAMEROX, '89. \ F. E. HAWKES, '90, J E. T. CARROLL, '89, I I. C. DEPuv, '~o, \ B. c. LITTLE, '9I, J 1 I. T. MosHER, '9o, J. \V. FERGUS07'J, '91, ~ G. F. MosHER, '92, r TERMS, ~INGLE CorrEs AssociATES. LITERARY EI>I 1 fOR. As soc Lt\:r ES. BusiNESS Eni1'0R. AssoCIATES. $1.50 PER YEAR I~ ADVANCE. 20 CENTS. We desire our friends to• send us contributions, items of interest and information concerning A1ttmni. Subscriptions taken at Robison's news room, 263 State street, where receipts can be obtained. :Extra copies can be obtained at above news room or on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly, will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be m:1.de and sent to THE CoxcoRDIE:Xsrs, Schenectady, ~. Y. Entered at the Post Office, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. CHAS BURROWS, PRINTER AND BOOKBINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. EDITORIAL. AGAIN the CoNCORDIENSIS n1akes its bow to the student world-again it stands at the tlnesh- olcl of another veaT-and whether it is to b~ one oJ of success or failure, \'\vho can tell? If our paper is to be a success-if, \vith Ahna Mater, it is to take unto itself a new lease of life, it n1ust have besides the untiring efforts of its corps of editors, the hearty, enthusiastic support of the student body. We issue this appeal to you at the out- set ; let those who can nid us \vith contributions ; let those who have no literary propensities, lend us their financial support; and let those who have no inclination to do ei'ther, at least nssist us by the kindly word. Bravvn instead ot brain, an athletic victory instead of a creditable college paper, these, we fear, are too fast becon1ing the doctrine of the Atnerican college student. Let it not be thus said of the students of lJnion col- lege-rather let us choos8 the golden 1nean, and excel in neither at the expense of the other-but glory in both. Tu1~ twenty-sixth of June last was a gala day for the students, AhJn1ni and friends of '' Old Union.'' It was tbPn th~1t kindly words of wel-. con1e were uttered by trustees, ahu11ni, faculty and students to the new president of Union col- lege, Dr. \V cbster. It was hoped, and in a large rneasure the hope has been realized, that the college would in1n1ediatel y feel th.e effects of the exceedingly creditable action of the board of trustees. The incorning Freshtnan class is the largest that has entered in several years, and a fine body of tnen they are too. Cruel and un- just criticisn1 has kept silent, harn1ony prevails, the o kler students feel a1nbition urging thetn on to better work in the clasE, roon1 and in the ath- letic world, and all things see1n to o1nen that Union's future will far eclipse her past. If not too late, we would add our word of vvelcotne to Dr. \IVebster, and strong in the beilief that the right rnan has been chosen for the task, we bid hi 111. God-speed in his effort to restore Aln1a Mate1· to her rightful place-in the first rank of Atnerican colleges. * * * TuE foot ball season is again upon us, and perchance a fevv words of caution and advice to the E:1even and to the students at large will not be untirnel y. In the first place, our~' varsity \Eleven ought to profit by the experience of last year's players, and should strive to retnedy the defects and diffi- culties with which they contended. We would not disparage the Eleven of last year, under the circtunstances they did n1ore than well. Yet in all their gmnes this one fault was painfully noticeable, i. e. lack of practice. This, and the weak Tush line oflast year are difficulties by no n1eans insurn1~untable. There are n1any 1nen of goocl physique, both in the Acadetnic Hn~ Medical departn1ents, who would, with n tnoderate atnount of training, 1nake good rushers, \V h ile the can1pus, and the absence of afternoon recitations surely afford abundant tirne and a suitable place for all the practice that the Eleven 1nay need. In t11e great Harvard and Yale contest of last year, it was clearly detnonstrated by the success of\\\'\ aic that skillful strategy, tnore than brute force is necessary to insure a victory in foot ball. \'

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 For the acquiring and successful using of tricks, the tean1 tnust play together, and to enable thetn to do this a picked Eleven frotH the rest of the college should play as often as possible the regular tean~. We wish the Eleven all success and feel certain that if these 1ninor difliculties are overcotne, victory cannot help but be theirs. * * * APROPOS to the opening of the colleges, the editorial departn1ent of the October Century contains an exceedingly able article entitled \ Modern Collegiate Education.\ The follow- ing extract fron'l this article in reference to the elective syste1n is well deserving of attention frorn both instructor and student. ''All that is necessary is that a college should see to it that the instructor should not convert the elective course into a n1achine for \ cra1nrning\ the student within narrower lines as he never vvas cratntned under the old systetn ; and that the student shall not, under the guise of a wider freedotn, be deprived of the license and encour- agen1ent to think for hin1self, which the old sys- tern gave hbn. After all, it is fron1 the two or three 111en out of a hundred who think for thetn- selves, and think correctly, that a college 111ust expect to obtain the reputation which con1es fron1 a line of alu111ni distinguished in public life, in literature, and in all fonns of htunan activity.\ * * * IT IS a 111atter 111 uch to be regretted that the Junior \hops fro1n unavoidable causes, vvill not be held this year. The fault is, we under- stand, not with the college authorities, but with n1any of the alutnni, who objected to the college countenancing dancing by granting to the stu- dents any of its buildings for such a purpose. We do not wish to be hard or unjust judges, hut vvould it not be both wise and profitable for the old to re1nen1ber that they too were once young, and that there are greater evils in every college than the seeking to disturb the 111onotony of student life in a properly conducted dance? * * * VVE notice that several of our exchanges in re- ferring to Union College and its ne\v president, have erroneously stated that the students cele- brated the president's election by '' bolting\ for a vveek. For the enlightentnent of our ahunni, and of the college world at large, vve feel that it is not out of place, here to deny such a state- nrent. ''Tis true that our joy outstripped our caln~ good sense for a s-ingle day, but that the faculty and authorities should allow us with in1- punity to '' cut \for a week, :would be detrin1en- tal to their own reputation, and to the d~ign1ty of our tin1e-honoted institution. * * * A \VORD for our advertisers. Seneca, the old Rotnan philosopher, sotnewhere said that ''God tnade n1an and then fon11ed fron1 hin1 other tnen that they 1night help one another.\ Our advertisers have helped us tnaterially, for 'vith- out their assistance we could not publish our paper; let our readers, and the students especially, re1nen1ber this, and whenever an opportunity affords, patronize the business finns that are represented in our colunu1s. Foot-Ball at Union. When autun1n con1es on, and the weather is too cold for rowing, tennis and the other warn1 weather sports, and when it is even too chilly to enjoy base-ball, it is then that a good rousing gan1e of foot-ball is sought for. Then after a few lively scrin1n~ages and a little sharp \ tack- ling,\ the blood circulates freely, every nerve tingles, and a ruddy glow appears on the cheeks of the players, no n1atter how cold the weather tnay be. There are a great n1any cotnplaints 1nacle against foot-ball on the ground of its being rough, brutal and dangerous to the lin1bs, and even the lives of the participants. But on investigation, it will be found that no tnore accidents occur than in baseball~ running, swin11ning, horse-back rid- ing or any of the other tnanly achieven1ents; in a word, it is not nearly ~ s dangerous a gan1e as it is generally thought to be. The gatne originated with ot,tr English cousins at Rugby, and is generally called by that narne, although our Atnerican college gan1e differs tnaterially frotn that played in England. The first gatne played in this country was be- tween two class tean1s at Yale quite a nun1ber of years ago. Soon after Princeton and Har- vard recognized it as a good gatne and adopted it, and during the last ten years the grovvth. of foot- ball has been so rapid, especially in our eastern

I '' . l ' . ' ., ' ·: f ·f'l '• ,· I .,, ' .. I '' ' : 14 1'HE CONCORDIENSIS. colleges, that now ahnost every college in the country boasts of a teatn, and it is recognized all over as one of the 1no.st popular of college sports. The gan1e is also played at the larger and bet- ter preparatory schools, son1e of whose tean1s play very creditably indeed. To be a foot-ball player, all the sterling quali- ties of a young rnan are necessary ; he 1nust be strong, active, coo1, plucky, a good runner and not easily fatigued. In addition to this, he n1ust be in perfect physical training; and oftentin1es, it is to a lack of this training that a great nutnber of the accidents on the foot-ball field are due. The gan1.e has been greatly itnproved of late years, and now it requires n1uch skill to play it properly. Not only n1ust the player be a fast runner, and a good dodger, but also 1nust be able to throw and kick the ball well, two accotn- plishtnents not easily acquired. Although so1ne little interest was evinced over foot-ball in. '8r and '82, no tea111 was organized, and it tna}' be said that the gan1e was not intro.- duced at Union until '86, when son1e n1en, who had played it at their respective preparatory schools, conceived the idea of establishing it as a college sport, and it was by the efforts of these tnen that the origin of foot-ball at lJnion is due. There was little or no encouragetnent given at first hy the rest of the college, and it was with the greatest difficulty that a sufficient nu1nber of tnen were induced to try the new gan1e. The first tean1 we tried was the Albany Medi- cal School, by which \Ve were defeated 8 to o. Soon after a challenge was received frotn R. P. I., and the eleven that we sent down to Troy was a very poorly organized affair indeed, with- out uniforn1s; in fact, only one tnan wearing the regulation canvass jacket; and the R. P. I. were not tnuch better off. ~fter a lively\ claw- ing n1atch,\ which -vvas hardly worthy of being called foot-ball, both sides clai 1ned the victory. Although no n1ore gatnes were played that year, n1ore enthusiasn1 was sho~rn, and the col- lege recognizing its good qualities, and seeing that sotnething tnight be achieved at -the garne, detennined to do better at it the following season. And, sure enough, the next fall an association was duly organized, with cotnpetent officers, a teatn was selected and put into training, uni- fonns were procured, and a field properly laid out ·upon the ca1npus. Of course we were not as successful as we could have wished to be, but we certainly cHd ! not disgrace <:>urselves or the college, and fron1. such a s1nall college as Ut1ion, the showing tnade bv the tean'l. was a creditable 011e. ol In the :first gcnne, we played a tie with the J\ledicals. In the nex:t two g-atnes we we·re de- feated by the Ridgefield Athletic Club by scores of 8 to 4, and I 2 to o, at .. l\lbany and Schenec- tady r~spectively. Both of those garnes were very hotly contested., the results being in doubt until the last n1on1ent. In the fourth gan1e, of course, \!Villian1s gave us a horrible drubbing, hut it was, in a rneasure, \vhat we expected, a·lthough we did rtot think the score 1vo uld be such a crushing one as 94 to o. We n1ade up, however, for this defeat by our victory over Cornell, which 1nade the teatn exceedingly proud, and justly so .. In all of the gmnes our boys played, they had all the dis~tdvantages, invariably playing, how- ever, better at the end than in the beginning. This autu1nn we ought to have a tean1 far superior ilil every way to that of last year ; n1ost of the 111en who played last year are back; and with their experience should play a vastly better gatne. Besides these, there are 1nen who have not yet tried, yet who would surely tnake good players; with these, together with what nlate- rial we get fron1 the Freshn1an class, the Medi- cal and La~.,.. Schools, \Ve ought certainly to put a teatn in the field that could cope s11ccessfull y with any of the stnaller colleges. It is certainly too bad that there are not tnore colleges in tl1e State which play foot-ball, so that an association tnight be fonned, such as. our base-ball association, and Union should put forth strenuous efforts to get up such a one. This year vve should endeavor to play as n1any gatnes as possible with all colleges that are rea ... sonably neat· us, as Williatus, Cornell, R. P. I., Rutgers, Stevens and Colun1bia. Let us trust that all \will go in \Vith a will and do everything in their power to enhance the success at '' Olcl Union,\ of that grand old gan1e---foot-ball. c. Vi. c., '89. ..

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 5 ------~~----- ---r-- -------- -T'he follo\'ring officers have been chosen in Locals .. -Welcotne Ninetv~Two! v .-.Thirty-seven FTeshrnen ! __,Where is the College senate? -College n1eetings will be held year. .. as usual this ~The President bas located his offi.ce in n1iddie section, South College, first floor. -'89 has defeated '90 in foot ball, score 6 too, and '9 r has defeated '92 by a sco-re of 4 tn o. -.-The Freshn1an war whoop is,. Ra, Ra, Rn, Ru, Ru, Ru, Boo1n-a-ling, Boon1-a-ling-, '92. -'90 defeated '92 in base ball Sept. z8th, fi \·e innings 'vere played and the score was 3 to 2. -The College 1 ..... M. C. A. ·will hold vveekly n1eetings a~ usual, th.is year, in Prof. ,Ifoffn1an's recitation rootn. -The Juniors hRve taken an entirely new hook in chernistry. '\Perk\ says, '~as science progresses, discard old books.\ -We rejoice to find Prof. HoH:J.nan in his lecture rootn again, having apparently recovered his forn1er health and strength. -l'he Seniors have tvvo essavs to vvTite this ~ . tenn. One for Prof. I-Iofftnan~ due Nov. 5, and one for Prof. Truax to be rea(;ly by Dec. r. -Many of the Freshn1en haye proved thenl- selves to be quite skilled ball players, and there are a few pron1ising athletes -an1ong then1. '91 : President, Gibson; Vice-President, Pres- ton; Secretary and Treasurer, Clen1ents ; Base Ball Director,. Little; Foot Ball Director, Fer- guson; Toasttnaster. -The popularity of our engineering course is shown by the fact that seventeen Freslunen are registered engineers. Nine have chosen the classical, while only seven are pursuing the regular scientific course. -The Junior officers are as follo\vs : Presi- dent, Cotnstocl< ; Vice-President, \ 7 an v· oast; Treasurer, Mosher ; Secretary, Baker : Base Ball Director, ~1cDonald; Foot Ball Director, Johnson; Toasttnaster, Pickfonl. -1\he few 1ne1nbers of the Senior class who have elected philology, find the subject very interesting and profitable. Philology is one of the latest additions ~o the Senior list of electives and every one should avail hitnself of the oppor- ·tunity of taking it. -Following are the electives chosen by the Seniors : 1'en have elected tnodern languages, four physical laboratory, three natural history laboratory, four chetnicallaboratory, one higher n1athe1natics, two Greek, three Latin, eight philology and sixteen geology. -Prof. Hoffrnan has given out the following ~ubjects for Senior essays : I. \Is science progressing?\ 2. ~' What is the field ot probability?\ 3· \What is the difference, if any, between m~n and brutes?'' +· \' What is the legitimate use of the imagination?\ -The Freshtnen have already shovvn their ~ devotion to the College by tvvice paying their respects to its guardian diety. llis Holiness wears a speckeled coat this ti1ne. -rfhe following tnen vvill con1pose the board of editors of the lT nion college annual, The Garnet, for this year: Editor-in-chief, Cassedy, BehL Theta Pi; business n1anager, Johnson, Alpha Delta Phi ; editors, Pickford, Phi Delta Theta, :Niosher, Psi lT psilon and Baker, Delta Phi. -1'he Gillespie Club has elected the follovv- ing officers for the ensuing year: President, Conover, '89; Vice-President, Baker, '90; Treasurer, Con1stocl<:, 'go; Secretary, Preston, ; 9I. -The followingcon1n1ittce has been appointed to collect subscriptions for the foot ball associa- tion : Hunsicker, '8~ t ; Carroll, 'go ; Little~ '9 r and Prest, '92. Treat then1 kindly and gener- ously. -After protracted 1neeti ngs and nutnerous ballots, the Freshrnen at last succeeded in elec- ting their officers ; they are President, Fisher, Vice President, Hunter; Treasurer, Dougall ; Secretary, Settbring; Historian, Prest; Poet, Robinson ; Base Ball Director, McQ:.teen ; Foot Ball Director, Coons; Toastn1aster, Hills.

i' 'I \ i i i \ : ~ . I I ' l . I ' ll'. ' ' ' I t'l ' ' ): I . ; i ' ' : 16 TilE CONCORDIENSlS .. -The Seniors have elected the following J':~o. ] . L. :Fitzgerald was recently married officers: to Miss Grace Van Vranken of Sch:e'nectady. President, Flanigan ; Vice-President, Lewis ; ·. ~8o. A. H. Dougherty is studying art in Secretary, Snow ; Treasurer, Fairgrieve; Grand E'urop~: Marshall, !-larder ,· ·Orator, Blessing; Historian, / .. v·'8r. The Rev. Henry Schlosser was recently Nolan ; Poet, Sin1pson; Addresser, Washburn ; n~arried to Mrs. Selleck, of Englewood,. N. J ~ Prophet, Hunsicker ; Ivy Orator' Conover; Ivy. Schlosser is p11eaching at Q.!.:rogue, Long Island. Poet, Sin1pson; Pipe Orator, Fairgri.eve ; Base Ball Director, Turnbull ; Foot Ball Director, v83. Sloan 18 111 the einploy of the Edison Waite; Toastlnaster, Whalen. Mfg,. Co. -The ·union coHege corps of cadets have organized for the ensuing year with the follow- ing officers and non-con1missioned officers: Lieut. H. II. Benbatn, con11nandant ; Lieut. C. Johnson, adjutant; Cotnpany B. Capt. H. T. Mosher; I st sergt., E. T. Schwilk; zd sergt., H. Preston. Co1npany B. Capt., F. L. 'Carroll ; 1st sergt., T. Robertson; zd sergt., Le\vis. The lieutenants and sergt. 111ajor are yet to be appointed. -The kindly feeling tnanifested by the press towards Union and her new president, is both pleasant and encouraging. The following is fron1 the Eltnira Advertiser of recent date: '~President Webster is a tnan ofbrilliant talents, a 1nagnificent instructor, a thorough organizer and a 1nan who con1pletely understands the student nature. He is able to get rnore work and better results out of college tnen than even the n1en thetnsehres realize until out of college. Webster is worshipped by the students, and ad- tnired and respected by all vvho know the college. The increased ntnnber ot applications for en- trance, and the enthusiasn1 that is felt by n1en _ favoring Union college and knowing its advan- tages is a proof of the vvi sdotn of his election and a guarantee of the continued prosperity of the college.\ Personals. Contributions for this department are requested. Hon. A. A. Yates has been renon1inated for tnen1ber of assetnbly by the Republicans of Schenectady County. ~o. Ex-United Statef:) Senator, \!Varner Miller, is tbe Republican candidate for governor ofNew )Tork. \1<83. McElwain is recorder ·Of the city ot Cohoes. '84. Nay lon. is chairn1an of the Schenectady Detnocratic County Con11nittee. '84. At tb.e October general tenn held in Rochester, J .. G. Green was adn1itted to prac- tice as attorn_,ey and counsellor of the Supretne Co7wt. 086. F1etdrer is practicing 1nedicine at 'Eau Claire, Wis. v(\86. HarJi:s was a delegate to the Den1ocratic Congres~io11al convention held recently in Schenectady. /86. Dm·win is practicing law in Ogdcns· burgh. ~6. Lan<lon is at the Albany Law School. t;/''86. Vee(J'er was ad1nitted last n1onth to the New l:.T ork .s tctte bar. I \ v'§6. Jackson ancl Angle are practicing law in Schenectadv. \ Bridg-e is at the Albany Law School. I . V:-'87. Bennett is at the Ca1nbridge Divinity School. Van: V oast is studying law in Schenec- DeF()rest and Estcourt New Glasgow, Q!1ebec. They on the consb'tH:tion of the Great way. are located at are cn1 ployed Northern rail- vis. Barndl y is inspector of tnasonry con- struction on tbe Long Island railroad. '88. Batt~s is in business at his hotne in Os-vvego. y/'88. Baket· is at the Albany Law School. \ \ \

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 [/;88. Blessing is professor of ancient and 1nodern languages at Central City college in Iowa. /js. Cantwell is studying law with his li1ther at Malone, N'. ·y·. ·· ~8. Coburn will study the eye and ear as · specialties. - V/88. Cole is at the Union Theological Setni- tl:ary. /\ . V\88. Ctnntnings. is at his hon1e in North Madison, Qhio. A88 ~/ ... Davis is at the Boston Institute ofTech- nology. J88. J8s. tady. DeLong is engaged in civil engineering. Dillingbatn is studying lavv in Schenec- vSs, Gilmore is also studying law in\ Dorp.\ I{ennedy is a broker in New ·y· ork. King is studying lavv with Judge ).,..ates in Schenectady. vSS. Lewis. is private secretary to John San- ford at Atnsterdatn. J88. Little is studying tnedicine at college of Physicians and Surgeons in New York. ds. Mandeville has taken up law at his home in Ehnira. 48. Richards has just returned fron1 a trip to Europe. 088. Scofield is teaching. t}SS. Stevenson is practicing rnedicine at M,·Jtia \Tille, N. y·. L.sS. Towne is studying law in Lansing- burgh. v18s. \Vinans has engaged in the study of law in Gloversville. I . t/;88. \Vinne is at RtJtgers' Theological Senti- nary. 088. Me Intyre V\'rts n1arried on the 22nd of .August to Miss Gerh·ude Schennerho1·n, of Schenectady. \J\1ac '=' is at present studying theology at Princeton. I' 089. E. \r. Peirson is assistant book-keeper in the hank of Peirson & Perkins. Newark, N.J. '90. Bennett has returned to college. '9r. Stniley, Hull, Roe, Barney, Rogers, and Dewey have left college. '' SPE.OIAL\ The College World. -\ 7 ale has introduced lectures on \T olapuk. -Cornell has established a departtnent of journal isn1. -Cornell has raised its standard for passing exatninations roper cent. -The University of Bologna recently cele- brated its 8th centenary. -President Patton, of Princeton, is an un- naturalized British subject. -Michigan University has established a course in the art of playvvriting. -Dartrrtouth has graduated 337, and .~..L\n1herst zoo college professors and presidents. _-y·· ale's Freshtnan class rnnnhers 337, An1- herst's 96, Princeton's I so and Stnith's I s6. -The University of Pennsylvania has built a greenhouse· for use in its botanical departn1ent. -Syracuse is soon to hr-nTe its ne\\T building, vvhich, it is said, vvill l)e the finest college building in the 'vorld.

' ' ' ' ' i i ; I I I I . I ( j .. I ADVERTISEMENTS. = ====··====~====~~~~-----.~-.~-~-~-=-~--=--==~==~====-=~----~-· -----~--.- .. ~~---.--------.-- .-~-~--------- ... -- -- s .E. MILLER, JR.. . E~GANT AND USEFUL GOODS. . . . · ~Our assortment indudes a fulllir1e of . ~~ .~9:0..~9 0'\\.:Ltfl.tteJ:~.:~~--~: s ilv·er- Plated. ~a-re., . •:.;..,......... ' . Nr:>cku.~ear UJ!derzvear Hosh1y Clvt•es, &r. '\-;;· .· · . . .. · . . _ . • , . ' ' ' · Elegant Larnps, Chma, Fanc:Y Glassware and Nove.lt1es Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy' Flannel Shirts and . in great variety. 'Many other a.ttractions too Coats, NorColk Jackets, Knee Pants, and tnlmerous to mention-COME. Bicych~ ·Good!:i. FINE SHIRTS 'fO ORDER. 34 a;1d 36 MAIDEN LANB., ALBA1VY · Y. M. C. A. BLtilding. SCI-IENECTADY, N. Y. A BROWN & SON, ES 'T ABLISHE D I 829. -+U~holsterers and Furniture Dealers.~ WOOD BROS., JdE)\1'~ BU~j\JI;5JHNG G88D~, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, IlOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. ~ Good.s :received. :for \l:':roy La.und:ry ~ 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTAD r, N. Y. 733 State Street, SCflENECTAD r, N. r. CHAS. BOLTZMANN, . DR. 0. ]. GROSS, CLOTHIER & :MERCHANT TAILORi J[Jl U ~, T' :J6 5 T.' ~ JVos. 2oi ~nd 203 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OFFICE 1-IOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. Perfect F'£t arld GofJl Work Guara1zteed. rs6 Jay Street, ScuENECTA.DY, N. Y. BARHYTE & HULBERT, - DEA T:,ERS IN- A.M. POWERS, ·:eoOltS AND STATIONBR Y, Paper Hangings an.d Decorations. PHOTOGRAPHIC ARTIST. A Full LiNe o_(Colleg:e 'TP.,ti Books. l?ooms Papered at Short Notice. z~s STATE STREET, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. No. 429 State St., Sclle11ectady, N. r. AUGUST SCHMIDT .. ZIMMER & KINGMAN, LilleDy, pale and E:X:cha.ne:e S~ables, 130, 132 AND 134 CENTRE STREET. OPPOSITE GlVENS HOTEL, Single and Double Rigs fU1·n1shed on Short Notice. ( u j .Sf £ti 1'8.) Te1epho·ne Connection.

AD :f/ER T'JSEldE:NTS . 1 • V. VROOMAN & SON, ESTABLISHED 18$4· Dealer in HARDWARE, STOVE.S, TINWA,RE, PLUMBING, STEAM AND Hor AIR F.uRNAC'Es .. All Plumbing, Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attendedite. 138 and 140 STATE ST., SCHENEC'r'A.DY. HANFORD ROBISON, NEWSDEALER AND STATIOlfER, 263 STATE STREET. Cigars, Tobacco, and,. Cigarettes. Newspapers and Magazines. Circ~lating Library. L.A. YOUNG, :I:? ia :l:l. o s., O:rga,:c..s ·-AND- MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENER.ALL r. Domestic and other Family Sewing Madt in.es. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, ~. Y. ARTISTIC P~I]\PFI]\TG ~ B88K BI]\IDl}\IG. CHAS. BURROWS, 332 State Strett, ~)chenectady, N. Y. • SITTERLY'S RESTAURANT. J2I STATE STREET. .. Oysters, Lunol:l.es., &c. Special attention paid to Society suppers. F. c. SITTERLy' PROPRIETOR. ESTABLISHED r84o. GAVITT & CO., . PRINTERS & ENGRAVERS, ALBANY, N. ·y-. Sjecial .Atte1r#on given to College JiVork. E. c. HARTLEY, DEALER IN Choice Groceries and Provisions, Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery, &c. Ft'1te B1ttter a Speclalty. 6or ani! 603 Union Street. KING'S Gents' Fur11ishing Emporitlm, 218 STATE STREET. The finest line of 1\1en's Apparel can be found here. All Novelties in Neckties, etc. Call and see our variety of College Shades in Muffiers Handkerchiefs and Ties. Goods received for Troy Lau1rd1y. ~- F. S~ITH 7 S NEW ONE-PRICE CLOTHING and MEN'S FURNISHING GOODS HOUSE, JII STATE STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. 1: Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom W<Jrk, Headquarters for Boy's an.d Children's Clothing. PRICES LO·W.ER THAN THE L,OWEST.

! : I ' I , I < I I , 'I I ! I : ! I i I. • I . I i • I I . I I I ' : ' I .i : i f. , I ; I I· I 11.' : 'I\ I I I ·: .,, ,. ' ;'! ll i,: 1 .:'1 i 'l ; ( r :1 I ' I '1 : . t ·I ; f I :l' r :r I!;! AD' VER TISEJI;fENTS. - ··- ~----~-~~------------ -~-------- Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigar~ttes. Cigarette stnokers who ar~ 'yvillfng 'to :P~Y a ' . . . little n1ore than the price charged for the ordi- nary trade cigarettes will find· T'HIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richtnond Straight-Cut No. I~ Cigarettes are rnade fr01n the brightest, tnost deli~ately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf geown in Virginia. 'This is the Old and Origina'I Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was bro.i1ght out by us in the year r875. Beware of itnitations and observe that the finn nan1e as belovv is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, Riclunond, Va. CLARKE, CATERER --TO- WEDDINGS, BANQUETS & PARTIES, 49 Hudsmt A·lJemte, AJ:BAN r, 1V. r. . c· . liAS. N. Y_ A.·. T.- ES, . . .. 13p State Street,. Schntecfad;v. N .. ~r. ' . Beds, Chairs, J\1attref'ses, .and all a.r~ides pertain- . . hig to furnishing student's rooms. .~Goons DEJ .. IVERED FREE. JAY A. RICKARD, Manufacturer's Agent and Jobber of 2$3 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. All Orders by lJtiaz'l will Ilecei·ne Prompt Atte11tio?z. NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC co., 48 NORTH PEAilL ST., ALBA·Nr. Reduced lla1 es to · Stttdents. . ' College Vie\vs and Faculty Pictures Kept in Stock. THE WENDELL MUSIC CO., Limited. . HARMAN CONSAUL, Pia11os, Orga11s a11d Mtisic. FULL STOCK AT LO,VEST PRICES 89 & 91 NoRTH PEARL St., ALBANY, N.Y. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. Origi'llal DesigJts when Desz'red. Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Bonts,. Shoes and Rubbers, 260 State Street, Scke1:tectady, N. Y. WILSO:-J DAVIS, .~e:roh.al:l. t 'J:'ailo:r., 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTAD\.T, N. Y.

ADVER TISEiJ4.ENJ\'S. ~- ·- ~ -- --------- ---~-- ~ ... ___ --·- ·- ---:---- -------- ... ----- ----- - ---- ~--- ------ --~--------~- ---------- THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS~ ,_ SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Sprague J1jlectrie ~rotors, Edison UndergromHl Conductm·s. IN~U.LATED WIRE .AID ~AB~&S, ~HAFTIIG PULLEYS ---AND---- GENERAL MACHINERY. EDISON ELECTRIC COVERY. A 11y booh leanzed in o?le read in g-. llfi11d wa11deri1zg- cured. • \peaki1lg without ·notes. 1Vholly mtlike artificial systems. Piracy coude11l1ted by Supreme Court. Great in:duce;meuts to corresp01lde1lce classes. Prospectus, with opinions of I)r. W m. A. Hammond, the world famed Specialist in Mind Diseases; Daniel Greenleaf Thompson, the great Psychologist; J. M. Buckley, D. D., Editor of the Christia1t Advocate; H.ichard Proctor, the Scientist; Hans. Judge Gibson, Judah P. Benja- min and others, sent post free by Prof. A. LOISETTE, 237 Fifth Ave., New York. DR. WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, lJ:'h~ \N\\e:~:l.d.~Fa::r.c.ed. Sp;cia.list in. ~ind :Cis- eases, sa.~s., \ I am familiar with various systems for improving the memory, in- cluding, among others, those of Feina.igle, Gouraud aq.d Dr. Pick, and I have recently become acquainted with the system in flll its details and applications taught by Prof. Loisette. I am therefore enabled to state that his i!>, in all its essential features, entirely origin(tl; that its princi- ples and methods are differerft from a:ll others. and that it presents no matenal analogies to that of any other system. · . I consider Prof. Loisette's system to be a new depa.rt11re in the educa- tion of the memory and attention, and of very great value; that it being a systematic body of principles and methods, it should be stttdied as an entirety to be understood and appreciated; that a COlirect view of it can- not be obtained by examining isolated passages of it. \V!LLIAM A. HA.l\IMOND.\ New York, july 10, r888. LIGHT MACHINERY. MIXTURES FOR PIPE OR CIGARETTE. THREE KIJ.VGS, '.l'urkz.'sh, Periqtte aJtd Virl{iJri(z. MELL 0 W MI~YTul~ E, Turkish and Perirruc., 1 ... UNKJSH a·nd VIRGINIA, PEJ~I.P<_ UE a1td VIRGINIA, PERI~UE a·JZd VIRGINiA, GENUINE TUNRZSf-:1 . FLl\KE CUTS, ESPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR TliE PliP!i:. VANIT~ FAIR. SALAl\1AGUND l, A NEW GRANULATED 1\li XTURE, ->~ STI~AIGHT-CUT OIG A RETT ES.~- UJ/surpassed in ~ua{ ity. U:.wd by Feojle o/RejiJt('d 7:asie. .JVJJf. S. I<IA.IBALL & CO., Fourteell First Prize Medals. lloche.\ier .. l!f. 1-.

. j cj ' .: I I , I I. i I t' , I . . , ' i ; l' t ' ' i ,•r ./ ; ',! I ' I I , i : '\ j .. ; I ·;. : ... ·i ' ' ' ' ,:I i ,·; 1' i ~ \ I''·' I I ' II t ' ' ' ~ ' t : ' j '' ·i'' ~ '' ,~ i ' ' ' ' ~ ·~ i' . I .i t' ; I , L , l! : t > ~ I ,',I ; : t:. ' ' ~ : I I ' ' ' ' I : ) ! \ ' :: ( : I ~ :. l '! ' i ! 1 ) J IN1'ERES1~El) IN lJNION lJNIVEl(SrfY SUBSCRIBE FOR THE '' CORGORDIERSIS.'' LO~c;·s L:i ~ery Sta. ble, LacHes' aiHl Gent's Restaurant, IU J , ~ALL ,)'l,'N EE T. ... ':·.·. Single atld l>ouhlc }{ig~ furni:-;hcd 011 Short ~oticc. D(·pot Ca /Is a S pe(ta! (I'· Tti,·phont' Co1111 ('('/ io11. Caterina a. SJ?ec5..alty.

t,

t' l II ( CHAS. G. ELLIS,, -Pte~'t. · WALTER McQ__UEEN 1 Vice Pres't. AD ' ·, v· c.R ]' ... T•)• ' r: 7LITENT.'S -'· .1~ · · .J· ...._ . .L!,~lYJ../· ,. · • ED'\IV ARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKIN, SupL Schenectady x Locomotive x Works, Locomotives of Stand:ard D·esigrt f.c)l~ all Classes of Service, Ol\ from D;esig11s fut~nish~~d by Railroad Co1npanies. lS4S. lSSS. . ... --· ~ . ~ ~ :I 0 c ~ ~ ~ c f:&1 t!J' ~ l:rt ~ ~ \' ~ ~ ~J.) I E-1 ...... ~~!l Pit ~ t.'\ ·~ ~ ,..., (j) ';::) .. '3>- \ •N ?-. •N ~ ··t-t 0 B ~ ~ ~ ·th ~ • CJ:) ~ ...-.; t:) ~ .....:l 'N C) ~ &i ~ ~ .... ~ ~ . ·~ ~ ~ ~ . 1\£1 ~ \' ~ ~ 'i:J 1=-1 ~ ~ f-1 ...:1 :::1 ~ ~ t5 ~· 7-. ~ 1-t rO 'N ~ ....-t <4 ·\1:! ~ ~ ~ ::c E-1 ~ tl) ~ ~ rn J:c-1 ~ r--... I ~ ~ ~ ~ Jr. Q.) ~ tr: ::c ~ ~ 1:4 X ~ (f). ~ ~ ~ 0 -~ ~ ~ :Tose:ph Gillott\' s STEEL PENSll · The Favorite Nos., 303, 404, 382, 851, 170~ AND HIS OTHER STYLES. SOLD BY ALL DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE VVORLD.

.A.CIJJ PHOSPHATE. Prepared according to the directions of Prof. E. N. Horsford. Especially Recommended for Dyspepsia,Nervo:nsne.ss,Exbanstion, Headache, Tired Brain, And all Diseases arising from Indigestion and Nerve Exhaustion. This is not a compounded \patent medicine,'~ but a preparation of the phosphates and phosphoric acid in the form required by the system. It aids digestion without injury, and is a beneficial food and tonic for the brain and nerves. It makes a delicious drink with water and sugar only, and agrees with such stimulants as are necessary to take. Descriptive pamphlet free. RUMF·ORD CHEMICAL WORKSJ Providence, R.I. ::Se\\?V\'a.:re of Su bsti tu tes anc::t :I::rx::!..ita.tions. CAUTION-Be sure the word \Horsford's\ is printed on the label. AU others are spurious. Never sold in bulk. ASK FOR THE FAMOUS ~ANCHOR ·:· BRAND +- COLLARS, CUFFS A.~.VD SHillTS. They Will Outwear t\vo Ordinary Collars. All Fashionable Styles. For Sale Everywhere. w T. HANSON & CO., e 335 STATE STREET, Druggists at~d Apothecaries. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Proprietors of HANSON's MAGIC CoRN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. P A:ODOClt 8G VI:N:B, gyMNA$1UM UNIFORMS. TIGH1 1 S, SH-IRTS, SWEATERS, STOCKINGS, gc. A FULL LINE OF EXERCISING APPARATUS. HUNTING & FISHING TACKLE, TOILET ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. I GREEN STREET, ALBANY, N. ,Y.

