Volume XII. a au~ Lri'ERARY- President Webster before the Troy Con- Vesuvius at Night-A. S. Wright. In a Coal Mine-Hon1er Greene, A Plea for the Classics, 127 130 ference, .:: Fraternity Greetings to President Web- Hard Luck, (A Poem) Sine Qua Non, (A Poem) ED[TORIAL, CoLLEGE NEws- Our Alumni in ,California, -!I - 134 !36 136 137 :ster, The Base Ball Trip, LocALS, - PEllSONALS, REVIEW, • 1 39 140 If I 142 1 43 1 43

I II rj J I il t-' ll !j I I II , I 'I t' ! ' I I II ' 11 I ! I . I I ·I I I ' I i i ' i ji ' I 1: ,, 'I ll I 'I I .. HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL. D.; P.,-,est'dmzt. UNION COLLEGE, .SCHENECTADY, N. Y. I. CLASSICAL CouRsE- The Classical Course is the usual baccalaureate course ·of American colleges. Students may be permitted t~ pursue.· additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. ScrENTIPic CouRsE.--lntheScientific Course the modern languages are·sribstituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathematical and English studies js increased. 3• ScHOOL oFCIVI·L ENGINEERING.-The student in :this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of instruction~ in its collection of models, instruments and books, ·the accumulation of many years by the late Professor Gillespie,and also in unusual facilitiesfor acquiring, a practical knowledge ofinstrumental field work. 4· EcLECTIC CouRsE.- An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at ,pleasure from the preceeding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon ex:amination, is found qualified .to ,pursue it. On the completion of this a cer-tificate of attainment will he given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address, .:? ..LI.:.: HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of the Faculty, Schenectady, N.. Y. ·DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE- Term commences first Tuesday in September and continues twenty weeks. The plan ot instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study ofChemistly and of Practical Anatomy. EXPENSEs.-Matiiculation fee, $s; term fee, $10o; perpetual ticket, $so; paduation fee, $25: dissecting fee, $s; fee forlaboratory coul'se, $:ro~ histological course, $x8. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N,. Y. DEPARTM.ENT OF LAW. THE ALBANY LAw ScHOOL.- The course oCnstruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of :rz weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found anywh<:re. The law libra:ry of the State is open to students; the General Terms of the Supreme. Court of the Third _Depa~tment, and all the terms of the C<>urt of Appeals. Tuition, $so each term, in advance; $~30 each year, in advance, For information address PRoF. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany,. N .. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For information address PRoF. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. AI-ZANY, N. Y • ....,For information apply to FRoF. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.,

. . ' . . ·., • ~ ::.:. •I .,: •• • ·: : ·. -r··;.· ,;,,. ',, '• ' . ~' ., ·. ' . ' '·~ ' -' > ,. ._;' '';' ~:- '::' ' _··:· < •• ' ·\\· . . . .. . '\· . -. ·~·' ·• •• j' ·,, .··. '.,·. : :' .... .' : .. . ., ~' ( ' ', \ .. - ' ! ,. < . ' .~Nte>N ,JffN::tV~N~I'J!T',, ;.:/ '\ .J . .. , '·. < •' . ,., :·· .. · .. ·. '·· .. \ . ,• .· '· ' . ' .. :'' .>:' .· { ·' ;' .m ' . ... ) .. ~ . x. CLA$SICAi.. Cov;RsK......;The Classi<;al . Gt!u.rse i~ the usua.l · bacc~i~u~:eate · <lO\lfse. of American c(l'lleges~ Students rtt~y be :Per.iTOtted' t~ Pti~$h~:~ · , . additional studies in· either of the other cO,Ul'Se$! -~ _ _ . _ _ . _ ;z. SciE~TIFlC Cou~Szt.~I:qtheScientinc Co.urse thcunoder'n l;~nguag'e$ ar~ substituted 'for ~he angien t. and fh~ arnotirtt·of rnathem~ticai attd: 'E~Jish . ' studies is irlcreased. · ~ ' .· ·. \ . 3'• ScHOOLJ>F c.VIL ENGlNJl:ERI.NG,.,.... 'rhe stu.dent i~ this. depar.tme~t ;enjoys. ~dV.antages 'Jiowhere 's-u-rp:ts$ed in ftb;e' ~9U.I:Se oC,lii,$~l'itt'ti~l1; i'i.t~J(s i collection ohnoo~l's, instruments and book~, the. a.ccuptulation of ~al\yy~ars by the late.Ero(~s~or O:iUe!;ipi<l~and ~lso,in uxl,u$u~If~ciJiti~sfqr ~~qgiri~g:': a practical knowle4ge of instrumental field wqrk 1 · · · · • · · ·· · · ~· · · • · . · ·· · ·· · - · 4'• ~Ct.ECTI~ C.ouRsk.--An 'Eel~ctic ·Course~ consisting ~f studies sel~ct~d at pleasur~ from tbe precee;di1,1~ co~r$es, .may be t!llceitl>y .any Qil~ yh6J!. ··' . Upon e~amination, is found qualified to purstie ·it.. O~l the completion ofthis. :a certjfi;oate of attainment will' be gj:v~:n. . . <. • • • • • ' • ' • • • ' • • •• . Tl:iere are aiso spe<;ial' courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy: -and Natur:al· HistorY;• :For. <;atalogp~s -Or for spec~al :infQ-.tltlat~oll addr~ss_,, ·~4: .~ _.· · HENRY W1IITl::HORNE,. Dean of the .F~culty; $ch~ncbtftdy, N. ':Y~ , . . ' • < •• '' • • ' ', ' . ~. ;,. . . • . .t ~. ( l ' . . ! . ' ,· '. . ·.··· -·DEPARTME'NT.OF ··MEDICIN.E. ' . ALB~NY M~oiCAt. Cou,E<xE:-,..,.':ferm· commenc~s :first 'rl,t~$<;1ay frt .September and continu~s twenty week;s. ~he pian ot· instructiQil' c;oirioinef .. ·. clinical te:~ching with lectures.. · Speqi~l opportunities fQr the study of Chell1istry .an~ of Practical· An~:toiny. · · · · ExJie:Ns~s.~Matiiculation fee,· $-s.; term fee; $:r:oo; pe:rpetuat ticket~ $so.; g·,.-ad'u,atioil: fee\ $:zs.; ·dissecting fee, $s; :fee fQrlaborqtoty cour~e,·$~Q: · · • histological Cpurse, $I8. ' For circulars addrt:)ss · - .. · ---.· ' . • WILLtS G. TUCKE'~,·M. D.,-Registrar, .All>ariytN, .. ·Y. < • • . DEPA:R~MENT OF LAW . • ' r.: ; TH:!t .:aLBANY LAw ScHo.oL.-.-Th~ cou~se of~nstrudion ~orisist~ ~f three terms.; the first commendng Septembers, the.secondNo:VellJ.ber ~s; :an.(}. the thir<l March. 6; each ter.Ql consisting of x2 weeks. . T~e advantage$ for the study of law ~t Albany ~u:e as great as· can. be· fbiJnd any.W~re~ 3:'1ic law library ofthe State is open to students; the General Terms of the.Supr~me Court of the 'Third _Pepartme1,1t; and aU the terms of the .C~4tJ:'.:q£ Appeals; · TujtiQn, ~$Q~e~ch._t~r.qt, in.adyanc~; $~soeach:year,in ~dvance, For information address •• < . . • . PRoF •. HQRACE E, SMITH, L],.D;, ,Alb~ny~ if. y; DUD·LEY O:BSERV.ATORY. This Department of tQe. univ~rsity is located at Albany~ and is devotetl especia:lly to Astronomy and Meteorology. F~dnfo:rn;la:tion ;~ddfe#- .. _ · PRoF·. LEWlS BOSS, ;Aib~y;,.N. v .. : -, ALBANY ·COLLEGE OF PHA-RMACY. ALBANY,. N. ¥.-For infoanation apply ta ' ; t. .\: '-· \ . ' · .. · ,'•. ,·: :·' ',!' '< ' ,·,·,,· ... •' ''' ; 1 •• !-l .::_ . .... -·: I>

AD VER TISEJY!ENTS. FINE CONFECTIONS, BON EONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbonieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Br.anch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, Manager. =====c======-===----------------~-_- ___ :c_--:--:--- TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTJ?E STJ?EET. The undersigned has had eleven year:-; experience 111 the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL J.110RK GUARANTEED Equal in every respect to Troy TVork. Gh•e us a trial. EMl\10TT HOWD, Proprietor. LEVI CASE & co., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works. STEA!YI, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING, A SPECIALTY. sMITH & TALBOT, · ARTISrfS AND PH01~0GRAPHERS. 505 (new No.) State St., Schenectady, N. Y. Ilave been the Class Photographers to 13 Graduating Classe~:;, including Union. Students arc welcome. Professors' Portraits a11d College Vietus coJtsfantly OJZ ka nd. ============------------- ---- 0 TTO KLEEMAN, 21.5 State Street, Sch('Jzectady, N. r., German & French Caterer & Confectioner. 'Veddings, Parties and Festivals furnished with Cream, Jellies, Charlotte de Russe, Neapolitan Creams, Roman Punch, Biscuit Glace, Plum Pudding Glace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy Orange and Nougat Pyramids in all styles, Chicken and Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, etc., etc. TRAVELERS/' -- ------------ -- JOHN T. JOHNSON'S Merchant Tailoring House, NO. 35 MAIDEN LANE, (~ext door to the \Vindsor.)

I> AD VERT/SEMENTS. - ·--- . -- ~ FINE CONFECTIONS, B·ON B·ONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also tine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbonieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, Manager. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOLTTH CENTRE STI?EET. The undersigned has had eleven y:earl::i experience m the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL 1-¥0RK GUARANTEED Equal i1t every respect to Troy Work. Give us a tr/al. EMMOTT HO·WD, Proprietor. LEVI CASE & co., Copper, Brass and Sheet Iron Works. STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING, A SPEC1ALTY. SMITH & TALBOT' ·ARTISTS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS. 505 (new No.; State St., Schenectady, N.Y. Have been the Class Photographers to 13 Graduating Classel::i, including Union. Students are welcome. Professors' Portraits a11d College View.\ collstan!ly on hand. 0 TTO KLEEMAN, 2IJ State Street, Sckenectady, N. r., German & French Caterer & Confectioner. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished with Cream, Jellies. Charlotte de Russe, Neapolitan Creams, Roman Punch, Biscuit Glace, Plum Pudding Glace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy Orange and Nougat Pyramids in all styles, Chicken and Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, etc., etc. ''Moral : Irts~ure in the TRAVELERS/' . ------- ------- -----~- ----- ----- JOHN T. JOHNSON'S Merchant Tailoring House, NO. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBAN\YT N. Y. (Next door to the Windsor.)

ADVERTISEMENTS. FRANKLIN H. ]ANES, 57 STAT·E STREET, ARCHITECT, ROBERT T. MOIR, (Successor to John Gilmour,) -DEALER IN- Books, Stationery and Paper Hangings, 333 State {(1td ISO Centre St., Schenectady, N. r. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. E. W. BOUGHTON & CO., MANUFACTURING HATTERS, TROY, N.Y. S.ATCHELS. SATCHELS. BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, No. 320 State Street, FINE CUSTOM WORK. Scke'nectady, N. r. A FINE LINE OF Ready-made Clothing and .Gents' Furnishing Goods. ~ext to -A::r:Q.e:riean ::E:;:xpress O:E.fi.ee. GOTO L. T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Streett For the Correct Styles in Hats. Also a full line of ·Trunks, Bag-s, Gloves, Umbrellas, &c., &c. Agent for DuNLAP CELEBRATED HAT ALBANY, N·. Y. D. R. SMITH, 505 UNION STREET, Resident Dentist. CROWN WORK A SPECIALTY. ~Call and secure my Special Rates tn Students. . ARCADE RESTAURANT, GEORGE C. ZEIZER, Proprietor. JaFtias + lupplied + in+ iFGada +I all. Full Stock of Wines, Liquors and Cigars. SCHENECTADl:.,., N. Y. HENRY McMULLEN & CO., Coa.l, (Successors to ANJ:?REW McMULLEN,) Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Wood, Lime, . Cement, CALCINED PLASTER, MAsoN's HAIR, ETc., 306, 308 a1zd 3IO Unz'oJt a1zd 209, 2I I and 2I3 Dock Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. J • H. DEVINE, Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. . Gentlemen's Finest Foot- Wear, Elegant Walking Shoes, anq Evening Full Dres~ · Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies fine foot-wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Mail orders promptly attended to.

VoL. XII. UNION COLLEGE~ MAY, r88g. No.8. Vesuvius at Night. Hot noon of an August day! Five hungry Atnericans at the P6n1peii railway station! Hotel du Soleil, Hotel Diomede, which? Of the first Baedeker says: \Chiefly frequented by artists and highly spoken of; the landlord procures guides for Vesuvius.\ That decides us. We take a cab as it is very dusty. The driver is a unique specitnen-big, fat, dirty, sn1all-eyed, larg~-cheeked, his face a perfect putnpkin for expression. He abuses his poor jaded little beast and proves hirnself during the two days we hire hitn to be what his appearance indicates-a n1ere anitnal. Our artist hotel is a two-storied brick structure, whitewashed inside and outside and situated within a few rods of the an1phitheatre of Potnpeii. A good dinner and we are ready for a start. Six shaggy, long- eared, short-tailed ponies are led into the court. We choose our steeds, exatnine our girths, swing into the saddle and with a shout frotn the crowd are off on a run. What a clatter! What stud ! What sport ! Our course runs along the wall of the great City of the dead. It has cast a strange spell over our boyhood irnagination. We would fain enter and walk through those silent streets paved with lava, we would peer into the tnansions of the great and the humble hotnes of the poor, we would poetize in the house of Glaucus and tnoralize in the ten1ple of Apollo. · But we have other work on. hand now. These beasts are contrary, these saddles uncotnfortable, the heat oppressive. Besides, the people are gazing at us and who would be laughed at even by a cro~d of rascally Italians? Let us gallantly charge Vesuvius and rnoralize under tnore favor- able conditions. Suddenly a halt is called. '88 is an expert bi~yclist but not a horsen1an. His steed wz\ll trot instead of galloping and his saddle is a veritable instrurnent of torture, proba- bly purloined frotn son1e Neapolitan Inquisition n1useu1n. He says he is going back. We ren1onstrate. l-Ie persists. Like Napoleon, vve · point to the volcano and tell hin1, '' forty centuries look dovvn upon hitn ;\ he is inexorable. Finally a con1prornise is effected throug:h a change of horses and we proceed. Groves of all tropical fruits abound. Nature s tniles, fairly laughs. It is hard to realize that over these ve1·y fields Vesuvius once dropped its thick, dark shroud. His tory repeats itself. Who knows what strange freak that great tnonster tnay take into his head son1e clay? T'here is really no dependence to be placed on volcanoes. They do things at such unpropitious titnes. They s111oke away quietly for a thousand years, or perhaps '' swear off'' altogether, establish a reputation for peace and quiet, and then sud- denly do sotnething so rash and uncalled for as altogether to destroy their good natne in the con1n1unity. It is astonishing how trustful lunnan nature is. Not to speak of several fits of uncontrollable rage in the past and sotne very violent turns of late, Vesuvius is always sput- tering and fL11ning away, a dissatisfied, ugly old grutnbler, and yet people continue to be friendly with hitn. As for us we would build our thatch and raise our vine an1ong neighboTs more con- genial. A two-hour's ride brings us to a long . ..._ village whose nmne we don't recall. We rnake a great fuss in riding into town. All ply the whips son1.e yell. Not that anyone desires to be undignified, but out' guide is a very boisterous fellow and we are unwittingly led on. With flourish of trun1pets we draw up before a stnall inn where certain preparations are to be 1nade for the ascent, and are surrounded by a crowd. . u Boisterousness has its Teward. Had we ridden quietly into town we should have n1.issed one of those picturesque street scenes which are atnong

128 THE CONCORDIENSIS. the pleasantest souvenirs of travel in Italy. What a tnotley throng! Won1en with babies in their anus, and wotnen without babies and babies without wo1nen. A score and 11101~e of dark-skinned bovs with teeth and eyes for a Murillo. One grabs your bridle, another your stirrup. One offers you grapes, another wines. All beg for charity. Twenty ragged rascals pleading with tongue and eye and gesture for a sou ! We throw one on the pavernent and there is a scran1ble. Another, and another! Sur- vival of the .fittest, 111y lads ! A tnother presents her babe to be kissed for a sou ; '89 finds the 1 sou. Really, this stnacks of the serio-cotnic ; we had better go. All being ready the guide tnounts; leans over his saddle and bawls in the pony's ears son1ething which sounds like \ Ounce ! \ Six stnall boys seize as 111any tails and bawl, \Ounce!\ The crowd takes up the rc::frain and ba,vl, \ Ounce !\-we are o.ff. So are the stnall boys. We gallop ; they gallop. We cry, \ Ounce,\ and gallop faster; they echo the cry, cling to the tails and gallop with us. We increase our pace~ we fairly fly over the ground but ever behind us we hear that fiendish ''Ounce!· Ounce! Ounce!\ We slacken speed, we ren1onstn1te, threaten, abuse; in return they offer us grapes and smiles. It is only after threatening revolver and scalping knife that we succeed with thetn, and two persevere to the end. yet. Our eyes aren't accu_sto1ned to this sepul- chral light nor our respiratory organs to carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen gases. We aren't quite sure as to how near we ought to approach to the crater, nor quite at rest about the giant's intention and ahilit) to shoot his guns in the right direction. There is, l1owever, little titne to reflect-the 1nighty battery is at work. We look down into that midnight blackness and lo ! a gaping red tnouth is opening. The flatnes leap forth frotn sotne subterranean con- flagration. The earth trernbles. 1\hen crack! crack! crack! crash! a tnvriad rnolten rocks \ are hurled with frightful velocity frotn those ugly jaws. Then follow volu1nes of cinders and ashes all aflatne fn?tn the reflected light of the 1nolten lava ; then darker clouds of volcanic sand right athvvart the face of the full n1oon and 1nidst it all the thud ! thud ! thud ! of the falling scoriae. For a· few 1nornents all is quiet at the surface, but deep dovvn in the bowels of the Inountain one hears a dull n1n1bling and roaring. Now 'tis Hephaistos with the tnighty Cyclops forging Zeus' thunderbolts ; now ten thousand Titans clash in deadly cotnbat with ten thousand other sons of Earth and Sky ; now Kronos and his followers are breaking down the triple walls of Tartarus. All den1ons of earth and hell are ho.lding revel ! What rnad tumult ! What tren1endous force ! Heaven's artillery transferred to the bosotn ot earth. 1'hen the rushing of a tnighty wind. A wild chariot rctce! Wheels striking! Horses falling! Chariots breaking! Reckless confusion, tunnoil, disastet, death ! On they cotne toward the goal. A tnonstrous Silurian wins the race, then a Devonian, then a thousand others leap into the air two or three hundreds of feet above our heads and fall back hissing and groaning into the great black pit. The action of the volcano is intern1ittent. The grade now becotnes heavy. Vegetation disappears-nothing but scattered clun1ps of grass finding food upon such a soil. We had hoped to see the sun set fron1 the sun11nit but already it is ninking beyond fair Capri and it is dark ere the foot of the cone is reached. Here we leave our ponies in charge of the persevering lad. The cone is very steep and the cli1nbing exceedingly difficult owing to the looseness and depth of the pulverized cinders and ashes. By picking one's way, however, it is possible to find solid blocks of slag offering finner foothold. As one ascends, the gases and vapors escape n1ore and more freely and the cinders becotne \Varn1er and wanner. Very suggestive all this. We are hot and tired as, after an hour and a quarter of hard clitnbing, we reach the ritn of the crater. I tnight add, we are a little-only a little- excited. We haven't quite gotten our bearings After a heavy discharge, the tnouth puffs clouds of Hshes and cinders with an occasional incan- descent rock and after an interval of frotn five to ten tninutes belches forth a great volley. Is it not dangerous to stand so near? No, not if one keeps to the windward sid~. However, a man can not be called over-tin1orous, if, at a particu- larly violent eruption, he cries, '~Look out!\ Our guide did so and we didn't reprove hiln.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 129 At the ti:tne of the great eruption of '72, twenty petsons wl1o were enjoying the spectacle, were overtaken by the flood of lava and perished. \At the sa.me titne, atnidst tenific thunderings, the crailer poured forth huge volurnes of smoke mingled vvith red-hot stones and lava :to a height of four tbousand feet, ·whilst clouds of ashes, tising t~ double that height, vvere carried by the wind as £at- as Cosenza, a distance of oNe hundred and forty tn:iles.\ Since 1875 the rnountain has entered l:l])On a new period of activity. The effect upon one is altogether uniq_ ne. On the one hand, this vast daTk shadow-land, a veritable reahn of lost spirits ; on the other, the wide ·Ca1~panian plain, flooded with t11e light of anAugus.tmoon. Within the crater, trernendous, awful foTce, war, tumult; without it, restful, quiet. Here., at last, we can philosop1Qize. The volcano- is a voice frotn the dead past. It is the one living thing wl1ich has participated in and survived t11e vandalistn of the tnidd~Ie ages. It has never forgotten those troublous tin1es, never adjusted itself to its environ1nent. In a quiet ag.e, it is ever turbulent. Would it but grun1hle., that were not inappropriate ; there is a deep u n<lercurrent of discon.tent with church and state in Italy. But wh~ those violent out- breaks suggesting to us the times of the Orsini and the Colonnas. The daJS of n1idnight raid have ·g()ne by. They will never, can never, return. Far <lown by the bay the tnists ~n~e iowering; the rnultitudinous lights of CasteJ:lamare and Torre .Annunziata are gradually being extin- guished ; the world will soon be as silent as Pompeii and Herculaneutn. We wonder how many of those sleepers have seen. Vesuvius at night. Probably very few .. The average Italian, who, wit11 the pickaxe, wins bread for hungry tnouth s, is not of a poetical turn of 11.1 in d. He, too, has failed to adjust hitnself to his surround- ings. The Forutn at Rorne is for 1~itn a place in which to earn two francs a day <ligging dirt; St. Peter's, a big building which ho'lds a crowd ; the Al'Cli of Constantine, a sad waste of building tnatetial. He breathes the very ahnosphere ot art and history, and yet grovels in the tnire. He lives in the past and yet is not of it. We coul¢1. have stayed all night with pleasure, but the air grew cold and we thought best to descend. About fifty feet below the edge of the crater the guide stopped and pointed to a vent hole. He held our hand that we tnight peer into it, then borrowed our utnbrella, fastened a piece of paper to the end of it and held it over the hole. The paper was all aflatne in an instant; so was the un1brella. We are satisfied; the air wh1ch issues fro.m the interior of volcanoes is hot-we have .. established that fact upon an experitnental basis. Utnbrellas are cheap in Italy. The cone is steep, the gradient being about 35 degrees. The surface is covered with loose ashes so that one sinks to the ankles at every step. We had toiled laboriously up this plane; we shot down it. The writer can still see far down the tnountain three clouds of dust rnoving with frightful speed, representing '86, '88 and '89 in a desperate foot-race, while above him cotnes our friend, the honored District Attorney of Her Majesty Victoria, vainly struggling in the clutches of the guide, who is bound that he too shall run and is crying at the top of his voice,~' Venez, papa! Venez, papal Venez, papa!\ Our steeds were eager for the hotne trip. They fairly fretted tor a race and as soon as we reached good roads we gave the.n1 free rein. We soon lost our gl;lide, lost our way, lost one another, lost everything save our exuberant spirits and that one sn1all boy clinging firrnly to the tail of his favorite steed. What a glorious ride that was ! Moonlight, a strangely beautiful, picturesque region, bracing night air, highly- wrought irnaginations ! On we raced through sleeping villages, along lonely country roads, past caravans of slowly-tnoving, heavily-laden wagons, till finally we skirted the walls of Pon1peii and turned into the court yard of Hate~ du Soleil. Tired, sleepy, hungry, thirsty, dirty ! All that and tnore, self-satisfied. That tnorning our younger rnen dreatned d·rean1s. '86 saw a spirit gladiatorial co1nbat in the a1nphitheatre opposite and a dance of the Furies about a great cauldron in a deep, dark chastn ; '88 sat at a wine banquet in the house of a Potnpeiian nobletnan, Strada

130 '*' THE CONCORDIENSIS. di Mercurio ; and '89 witnessed a base-ball tnatch, All Arnerica against Chicago, in the Ternple of Jupiter. strange and awful, on the frightfully steep descent of the narrow r.airvvay which plunged into it, and on the flimsy-~ooking contrivance by which A. s. WRIGHT. ------ --------- -------~ ----- ----- --- ~--- -- In the Coal Mine. THE CoNCOR:DIENSIS ca1ne in possession of an article by a well-known author and Union graduate, which, because of its exceHence, vve reprint below. The article appeared originally in a Pennsylv1t11ia paper. we were to be ushered into its tnysterious pre- ciiicts, I appreciated, as I never had before, the feelings of Mr. Winkle, just before that fatnous duel, when he begged his friend Snodgrass, not to call a policetna.n. In fact, I was just on the point of assuring rny con1panion that, tather than trouble hi1n to .such an extent, I would content n1yself vvith looking at the outside surroundings, when he handed n1e a lighted la1np bearing a strong resetnblance to a tniniature coffee pot, with _the wick protruding ftotn its spout, and, taking his place on the .car, tnade rootn for tne by his side. So,. with a strange tnisgiving I seated 1ny:self and prepared for the worst. He cried, \ slack off'\ to sotne one, the engineer, I suppose, and we started; I asked hitn, in as unconcerned a tone as I could possibly com- nland, what the effect would probably be if the rope to which the car was attached should break, and he answered in a still tnore unconcerned tnanner that we would, in all probability, go to the bottotn in an indefinitely short space of tinie and that, having arTived there; the progratntne for the future would depend very much on the · history of our past lives. I an1 at present staying at Pittston, Penn., one of the largest tnining towns of the Lac!ca- wanna and Susquehanna coal :fields, and the principal base of operations of the Pennsylvania Coal Co. Having exptessed a wish the other day, to investigate the 1nysteries and wonders of the regions \ underneath the ground,'' I accordingly found myself, on the following rnorning through the courtesy of the Co1npany's officials, at Port Griffith, one extre1nity of the Pennsylvania Coal Co's gravity railroad and one of the suburban villages of Pittston, about tvyo tnnes below the central portion of the latter place, on the Susque- hanna river. I stood facing a tnine car railroad which ran by 1ne and entered a rectangular opening in the earth,. a few feet below at an inclination some- what steeper than that of an ot~dinary house roof. On going to the rnouth of this opening and peer- ing down into the darkness I saw, at what appeared to n1e a11 ahnost infinite distance, the faint twinkle of a light. I asked tny cotnpanion, one of the fore1nen having charge of the tnine, who was to accornpany n1e, where the light was that I had seen, and learned that it was a lmnp at the foot of the slope which is nearly a quarter of a n:)ile in length. By this ti1ne the car which was to_ convey us into the underground world tnade its appearance and stood waiting before us. It was a 1nere plat- fonn on wheels attached to the enc1 of a wire rope which passed up into the engine house and was unwound from a huge revolving dnan turned by a stationary steam engine, Standing there, in the early tnorning, looking upon that black opening into the solid earth, significant of things And then he 'vent on to relate a very pleasant little anecdote of how, not long before, some half dozen tniners had started frotn the head of the slope in a coal car and, when about one third of the vvay down, the rope 'broke in two, the car descended to the foot with a frightful velocity and all were killed save one, who was so badly injured that life to him is a constant torture. Strange as it n1ay seetn, this little story did not tend to exert the most soothing effect on 1ny nervous systen'l,. and I grasped the side of the car convulsive! y several titnes, thinking that the rope had parted, for the constant downward tnotion, together with the excessive noise tnade _ in so narrow a passage, and the close proximity of the walls on eithe1· side, tended to strengthen the illusion that we were traveling at a very high rate of speed. On ·arriving at the foot of the slope 1ny cotnpanion was call~d away to attend to sotne itnportant work in a distant part of the rnine and I was turned over to the care of a

THE CONCORDIENSIS. • 131 small boy who was to .take me to the end of the '' long heading,\ where we were to meet a person narned Sandy, a sort of sub-foretnan, \vho would show rne around. The boy drov_e -~ ----~---- a mule which drew cars back and forth in this headit;tg, and, while we were waiting for enough cars to arrive to complete his nutnber, I seated· myself or1 a rude wooden bench and looked around me. My eyes soon becatne accustomed to the darkness, which was only partially dis- pelled by the feeble light of the miniature coffee pots, and I found tnyself in a plaoe frotn t-vventy to thirty feet wide, ten or twelve feet high, and extending d~rectly onward frotn the foot of the slope sotne five or six rods to where it separated into two passages, one opening into the right, the other to the left, and both having tracks laid along thetn for the mine cars. There were a half dozen men and boys sitting and standing around, waiting for cars, all with little latnps fastened to the front of their caps, and dressed in suits of which the original color had long been lost beneath the thick coating of grease and coal dirt which covered them. They answered readily the various questions which I asked, but with little regard, as I afterward learned, to the exact truth of their statetnents. to hold my lamp with the other, but the involun- tary movttnJ,ents of my body, caused by the irregular oscillations of the car, induced me finally, although with no direct intention on tny part of doing so, to drop the latnp, which was soon extinguished on the botton of the car, and hang on as though for dear life. And that .awful boy proceeded to curse and lash his tnule with still greater vehen1ence and blew out his ·· own light for the purpose, as I have always thought, of enjoying stili more hugely tny tnentaJ and bodi}y confusion and n1y apparent concern for the safety of my life and litnbs. And so we thundered <?n· I say thundered, for one who who has not had experience can fonn no adequate, idea of the deafening noise made by a trip of these cars moving rapidly through so narrow a passage, where the sound, having sucl1 litnited means o{ escape, bounds directly bac1c ftom the closely surrounding walls to one's ears. I was really frightened. The total darkness, together with the awful din, and the thought of unknown dangers to which we were hurrying at such a furious rate, did not tend in the least to allay my fears. There carne a violent crash at last and the car in which I was sitting overturned arid threw tne sprawling into a pool of dirty · water, not hurt, but badly frightened. I picked myself up just as the boy concluded a volley of oaths, and inquired ofhiln as to the cause of our somewhat sudden detention. He replied that one of the mule's ears had caught in the roof As the lo~ded cars began to arrive frorn the interior, the scene became one of noise and con- fusion, plentifully interspersed with oaths of the tnost startling originality, directed tnainly at the n1.ules which drew the cars. These animals, I learned, often stay in the tnines, for years with- out ever once seeing the daylight, and becotne so fatniliar with tniles. of the passage that they can find then· way through thetn at any time in total darkness. I was infonned, at last, that the '' trip \ was ready which was to carry tne to Sandy, and as I climbed into one ot the rninia- tute cars, I beard a little black-faced imp say in an undertone to rny driver, '' Give 'itn a ride on the lightin' express, Jin1my !\ Jitnmy evidently accepted this unwise counsel, for, no sooner were we well started than he proceeded to adn1inister to the tnule which was drawing us, a most unrnerciful \vhipping, which caused that animal to start off at a furious pace, increasing in arith1netical ratio as we proceeded. I grasped the side of the car with one hand, and endeavored and jerked him back suddenly against the fore- most car, but that there 'vould be a light there soon and we would fix things all right. I heard a run1bling in the distance and there soon ap- proached us, frotn the opposite direction, a boy with a trip of loaded cars which he stopped on a siding a little way ahead, and catne and gave us lights and helped us on with our cars. I was not particularly anxious to take another ride on the '' lightin' express\ but being deter- tnined to see it through at all hazard.s, I took 1ny place in the car again and we proceeded on our journey; 11ot so fast as before, but still fast enough to fully satisfy me. We catne, aftet· a long ride, to the end of the heading, where we found Sandy, a good-natured looking Scothtnan, sitting on an etnpty powder keg holding a safety

132 . THE CONCORDIENSIS. lamp in his hand and smoking a clay pipe. My up to the old heading by a stationery steam compa!(non de voyag·e explained to him that I engine for reasons which are obvious. was a \ greenhorn \ come t<l see the mines, and At last, Sandy, having kn<>cked the ashes from Sandy invited me to take a seat on another his pipe and put it in his pocket, we set out on empty powder keg near by and said tlmt as soon our tour of exploration. Walking back through as he had smoked his pipeful,. he would show me the heading a little way, we came to a door around. opening from its upper side which we pushed While we were sitting there I gathered from open, and passing through, stood in what is him the following facts relative to n1ining coal: called the \air-way.\ This is a passage driven When it has been decided, frotn a series of . parallel to and simultaneously with the heading geological observaNons, drilling &c., which of ,at a distance of ten or fifteen feet ft~tn it along th · d' th d h ..ct t 1 1 its whole length, with entrances from one to the , . ree or 1nary tne o s, s a.11, unne or s qpe, other at the foot of each chatnber. The air, will be the tnost practicable for conveying the coal to the surface, the opening is driven until cotning in at the shaft or slope, is obliged to th~ under surface of the vein of coal is. reached, travel to the furthest extrernity of the heading,. the working vein in this region being frorn ten since the openings between the heading and air- way are all closed, excepting the last one, to fourteen feet in thickness. Frotn this point through which it is allowed to pass up into the passages, or \headings are driven, usually airway and back through that, to the shaft or t~o, in opposite directions, as far as is practic- slope, circulating through the chambers on its able or necessary. But as the rise and fall of the return trip. Many ingenious and complicated strata beneath the .surface is nearly as varied as .tnethods are resorted to for supplying pure air that at the surface, and since the satne principle under varied and peculiar circun1stances, for this must be followed in building underground rail- is one of the tnost i tnportant features of 1nining ways that is followed in building those on the engineering~ without which the foul and explo- surface, the heading~ tnust necessarily have sive gases could not be dispersed and men could frequent and often sharp curves in order to keep not work. the level of the stratutn which it follows. At We passed frotn this' airway directly into one dista?ces of fifteen or twenty feet, along that side of the chan1hers, up the entire length of which a of the heading frotn which a passage would wooden track had been laiJ. A mule was slope upward, openings called '' chatnbers '' are made at right angles to the heading, usually drawing an etnpty car up to the head of this chatnber, there to. be loade-d with coal and about twenty-four feet wide, and are driven directly up the slope. allowed to run back down to the heading by force of gravity. Passing up the chamber I These chambers often become so long that noticed, at regular intervals along each side, it is more profitable to drive a new heading openings of eight or ten feet in width, which I along their upper extremities and open from this learned connected this.chamber with the parallel a new series of chambers, a trackway being laid ones on either side, and were made to allow a through one of the old chambers down which free circulation of air as well as to obtain the the loaded cars draws the light ones up, for it is coal. By this means the system of chambers is still necessary to draw cars to and from the foot formed into. wide, paralled passages crossing ~ - of the shaft or slope on the originid heading, them at right angles, thus leaving pillat·s of coal, since that alone is on the same level. If, how- of a square or rectangular horizontal section, to ever, it is desired to take coal frotn that side of support the roof. the heading which is below its level, a slope Having reached the upper end of the chamber, must be driven down the desired d i sta nee,. a new which is called the \ face \ or the \ breast,\ we heading opened parallel to the original one, and stood for a while yvatching the miners drill holes .chambers driven up from the new one to the into the coal and their 1aborers load that into the old. In this case the loaded cars must be drawn car which was already blasted down and broken

'THE CONCORDIE;tqSIS. 133 in pieces. Two n1iners generally engage a .. chatnber and are paid eithet· hy the nun1ber of tons or the nutnber of car ·1oads of coal they send frotn it. Thev ~ in turn, hti re laborers to break -' and load the blasted coal and run it down to the heading, for it would be altogether beneath a tniner's dignity to do these things for hin1self, even if he had sufficient titne. The tniner generally cotnes in early in the rnorning and, if be have ordinary luck, will blast enough coal in four or five hours to keep lds laborers busy the re1nainder of the day. Th'€ n1iner usually nTakes frotn tV\ro to five dollars per clay and his laborers fro1n one to two. u One of the holes had be.en drilled sufficiently deep while we were sta.nding there, and the powder had been inserted t·eady to blast. We beat a hasty retreat through an entrance into the next chatnber, the n1ine1·s cried \fire at the tops of their voices and ran.. There was a dull, heavy noise, followed by a crash when the explosion catne, the waves of air caused by the report and confined by tl1e surrounding walls, beating on one's ears with a peculiarly unpleasant sensation. After having ]_)assed along the heads of several of this series of·chambers by tneans of the entrances which connected thetn, and watched the progress of the work itl each, we catne down one of then1 and out- or1 the original heading again. When Sandy rnentioned this fact, how- ever, ·I was obliged to take it on faith~ for tny ideas of latitude and long-itude had becotne sadly confused during tny prog-ress through the charn- bers. We walked back tl1rough the heading a considerable distance and then passed off into a kind of branch heading which had been unused for a nu1nber of years. Having gone a little way in this Sandy bade me set 1ny lan1p down and follow hitn. I did so; and stutnbled along by the feeble light on his safety lan1p, to the head of an old cha1nber. Here he stopped and held the latnp about the height of his head, when i1n1nediatel y the space in side the wire gauge was filled with a pale blue flan1e. Sandy told n1e that it was the inflannna ble gas or fire damp which had been the ca11se of so tnany accidents to 1niners, and when he rernarked that there was enough gas there to blovv that whole part of the rnine into fragtnents, I followed him without the least 1~ esttat.fon back to the foot of the charn ber. As w.e- passed _through this old heading I noticed that eve1y,thi ng around us was c·overed with a coatir~.g of a darnp~ sticky substance of a reddish color.,, and. learned that sotne two or three years before :t l1e tnine had taken fire fron1 some un- knovvn ca Hse and the 1nethod of turning a running- stream into it filling it with water had to be: resorted to to extinguish so extensive a conBRg1~a.tion. Many months were required to pu1np .t11e water out and it was then found that the <C 11:etoi cal action of the tninerals with the water h.ad deposited this residue on every sur- face tl1e ~ater had touched. Passing along into a ver·y oicJ portion of the 1nine, we stopped a rnor111eat to listen, and heard, in every direction arou.r1d tl.'S a succession of quick, sharp noises, like ib.e sn.apping of dry twigs. Sandy ex- plain~d that this was due to the enonnous weight of tbe 10()f crushing gradually the pillaxs and wall (){ coa.l beneath it. This \ working\ for- \ bodes an. extensive fall, which often extends up to t1~e earth's surface, but continues for davs and \' weelcs .and often tnonths before the fall takes place. . _ Further on the rnassive pillars of coal had been H:terally crushed to fragtnents beneath the weig:-ht of t11e sinking roof, and great tnasses of slaty rock had fallen down and lay piled in high irreg:ular hills, up and over which we clambered wit1l nile greatest difficulty' often dragging our bodi~s tln~ough apertures just large enough to adrnit H1ern, left between the fallen rock and the roof~ or between the rocks themselves. After half a.n hour or so of clatnbering through this confused wilderness of fallen rock which pre- sented sc€nery at once startling and picturesque, we ca.tne to the place where the fire during the con8a.g1·a.tion had hollowed out a sort of parebolic do n1e in the roof, sotne thirty or forty feet high and R11out fifty or sixty feet square at the base. Ligllted up with the blaze of a burning news- pa.p.ec, the scene became very striking and beautifuL I saw here a large flat stone weigh- ing perhaps several tons, that would have gladcle11ed the heart of a geologist, for its surface was literally covered with the tnost beautiful and perfect specin1ens of fern and other leaves and figrtres that I have ever seen.

134 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Not far frotn it I saw painted in la~·~e white .. , letters on the sloping side of an itntnense piece of fallen rot:k, \ Hultnbold's Buchu \ and· difle·rs frotn this in having an iron ~·oof to afford protection frotn falling objects, and iron dogs which are arranged so as to clutch firmly the wooden guides or tongues of the shaft in case the rope or tnachinery should break, thus holding the carriage in its place, no tnatter hew far frotn the top or the botton1 of the shaft it tnay he. C01ning at last to the surface, it was sotne titne before tny eyes becatne sufficiently aecustotned . to the full glare of .the noon .. day sun to see objects distinct! y. ' C · L\ . · t \ . I · 1 . . • entaur · nun1en , wtt 1 t 1e1r accornpany1ng trademarks. I was rather surprised, to say the least, to find that the daring advertisers had penetrated even to these regions of darkness and unearthly n1ystery, but when tny guide infonn-ed tne that it was the \Vork of a witty n1etnber of the engineering corps who had been in there sut-veying a few days before, I subsided. We now left the fa Hen portion of the n1ine, a:n d after a very long walk, during which I saw sorne of . the beautiful snovv vVhite fungous substance, softer than the softest fleece, that grow upon the decaying wood, we can1e to a heading along which a trip of loaded cars was passing, and which Sandy told tne led to No. 6 shaft. We here tnet a person whon1 tny cotnpanion addressed as Billy-a queer looking W elslu11an, with crooked legs and a long hooked nose, who, had it r.ot been for the kindly glea1n of his blue eyes which wet·e the only parts of his face un- Co\-ered with latnp stnoke and coal .black, and the absence ofa caudal appendage, would h~ve made a tnost excellent impersonation of the evil one. Sandy turne<.li n1e over to hitn, saying that Billy would take n1e out by the shaft while he would go back to the slope and attend to some work. My presentcotnpanion was not so talka- tive as tny fonner one had been, and I found the long walk to the foot of the shaft quite weari- some. When we arrived we found the safety carriage at the foot, and stepping on it, ascended 'vi thou t delay. A wooden paTtition extends down the whole I depth of the shaft, dividing it into two equal parts, down one of which the etnpty carriage is descending while the loaded carriage is ascending througl1 the other. On~ of these car- riages is usually· a patent safety carriage. The ordinary carriage is tnerely a wooden platfonn witb vertical postg at the n1jddle of its sides, united by a cross-beam, at the top of which is attached the wire ropes. Grooves in the outer sides of the vertical posts fit tongues extending down the entire depths of the shaft along which they slide for steadiness. The safety carriage Stepping fron1 the carriage I stood on an elevation frorn which I took a broad view of the beautiful Wyon1ing Valley, from the Junction of the Lackawanna and Susquehanna on the north, the historic village ofWyotning, clustered about its gray stone tnonutnent on. the south ; and the n1ountain range growing blue in its 'vindi~g distance and fading slowly into dreatny haze. I thought I had never seen this world of ours look one half so beautiful as it did then, con- .trasting so strongly in its channs of light and life, with the deathlike blackness and stillness fron1 which I had just etnerged. I stood a few rnon1ents watching the tnen run the cars frotn the carriage as they arrived at the top of the shaft along a high ·trestle to the breaker, a huge wood_en building containing great iron-toothed revolving cylinders, which cri:tsh the coal as it passes through thetn, afterward to be run suc- cessively through coarse and fine screens, thus giving us our different grades, and then dumped into the shipping cars. I found tny clothes in a sad condition, literally covered with latnp oil, coal dirt and yellow n1ud, and tny hands and face cotnpletely coated with the same, but thi~ was nothing cotnpared with tny admiration of 1ny~elf upon assuring n1yself that I had been '' down in a coal tnine.\ HOMER GREENE. A Plea for the Classics. We are continually hearing argutnents regard- ing the desirability of studying Latin and Greek. The question is so often asked \ Why do stu- dents waste so 111uch tin1e in the study -of the Classics when they n1ight be learning sotnething that will be of use to thetn after they have en- tered of the these Do repea Class.i a1~e be the ai guag( custo away with< t11e s~ udicE amo A liken great like t thou: Tl ·is tn: ofth :But won whe to a 1nea ·of t goo' of tl titnt C011l whi of tl It . tng. bett will one less case tne: the is ~ and lab I the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 135 tered upon the duties of life? It is :not required or without awakng the interests o1· passions of of them that they should write or speak either of modern life. This enables the student to study these languages.\ carefully and without bigotry, and gives in aftel·- Does it not see1n p(lssible to answer thi:s oft life the absence of tuetuorandurns,, which so often repeated question and defend the study of the distinguishes classically ,educated men. In the Classics? I think so. In the first place they second place the study of the classics is a benefit, a1~e better fitted to develop the tnind, for that is because they ate languages; they are not a the aim of all study, because they are dead lan- special branch of knowledge, but they are the guages. The nations to which they belong, the literature of nations. They, rno1~e than any customB,. the political prejudices have long passed other study, give to the student a refinetnent of away, and for that reason they can be studied speech, and the close study of the old rnasters in without the fatniliar knowledge of the peopTe, prose and poetry gives great power of expres- t11e sirpilarity of custotns, and the political prej- sion. There are, to be sure, men in nearly aU udice which would naturally attend the study of ·. the professions, in the Senate, at the bar, a modern language. authors, who are t;toted for the -vigour of their A sentence in Latin or Greek has been aptly :, language and for the clearness of their utter- likened to a nut having a hard shell, den1anding :· ances, who have never opened a ~Greek or Latin great labor to get at the kernel. A sentence · book; but infinitely b1·oader is the advantage of like this causes on the part of the student great a classical education than the ability to express thought, and that is the solution of the problem. clearly and in neat language ones thoughts; the The task of understanding a modern language question is will not the study of Latin and Greek ·is 1nade cotnparatively easy by the familiar sound · quicken the intellectual powers 1nore than a of the words and the .accustotned flow of thought. study which tnay on the face seetn n1ore useful. :But this is not so in a dead languge where each It '\vould seetn as if the student is not only word is not at once made clear by association, profiting by the hard work necessary to get at where it is necessary to have constant reference the meaning of a sentence in a language entirely to a Lexicon, and thus pick out frotn an array of new, but he is being continually benefitted by 1neanings, the one that best expresses the thought their reasoning, seeing where their argutnents ·of the author. It is also necessary to have a have proved false, and where they have proved good understanding of the subject of the writer, n1ore wise than any which have since been ad- of the history and politics and geography of the vanced. titne. All of these tnake the obstacle to over- The great benefit claitned by the study of co111e tnore difficult, and the larger the obstacle mathe1natics is that they quicken. the reasoning which has been overcotne, the stronger the n1ind powers, and n1athematicians are apt to say that of the one who has conquered. language does not fill the requiretnent. But if It is as often said that the thne spent in study- a s~udent conscientiously wot·ks through his ing the ancient languages tnight be spent to course in the Classics, he is able to push his better advantage on ones . own tongue, that we , principles to iust results. '\iVhile in1mense will place in the hands of a student two books, amo~ts of algebra and calcultls can be stored one English, the other Greek, and given equal up without calling the reasonin.g powers into lessons in each one, will find that in nearly every a\ction for they may be gained by quickness of case the Greek is better understood in its full observation. tueaning than the English. And why? Because \ But,\ sotne one asks, ''granted that the the English is run through so swiftly that little students do cotne out with their 1·easoning powers is gathered. But the Greek being unfamiliar so ... fully developed, does it cotnpensate thetn for and difficult, is gone through with so' slowly and the loss of the accurate knowledge of sotne laboriously that a deeper impression is gained. science which they 1night have gained if they By reason of the political parties being dead, had spent their titne in the study of son1e more the principles can be discussed without prejudice, practical subject?\ And in reply to this we say

l36 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------ ---.-~ that ac-curate knowledge is not a test of educa- tion so much as it is an outcotne of it ; but education is that which develops a tnan's facul- ties and fits hitn with a tnind well balanced, to bear the heat and toil of his life work. It is the ain1 of all educational institutio'ns to turn out men, not stt:.ong in one subject only, and weak in all other branches of knowledge, bnt 111en with minds well trained and able to grasp all the vexed questions of the titne. And we ,claitn another point which shows the classical study to be superior to other studies as an educational instrument; namely the greatness of those writers who have tnade the languages. When parents begin to educate a child, one of tl1e first things they do, or ought to do, is tc select books which w~in not lower the tone of ib mind, but will tend to elevate its character. It has been said that '' the society of the best and greatest men is the most powerful educator down to the end of life.\ Where can be found men better fitted to act ·as the educators of the yo'ung, than the g_reat classical writers. For in the first place we can look at the beauty of the fonn of their writings. They were written when writers were few, when the n1aterial on which to write was very costly, and consequently when there was far 1nore listening to, than reading of their works. On account of this they had to be far tnoJe cateful in the writing than authors of the present day, for although people will read a book that is not written ·in a pleasing style, they will not listen to it. And it would seem altnost i tnpossible to bring together, for study in the modern languages, as tnany books which cotn- hine beauty of style and general excellence of 111atter as can be found atnong the Classics. So why abolish the study of the Classics which has been so satisfactory for ages, and when it has so 111any advantages over other studies in the education of the n1ind? When they contain the works oftnen, which, for beauty of style and clearness and purity of expression, have never been surpassed. Do not abolish the study of the ancient languages, but if there is any way by which the study can he made of greater advantage~ let us seek it, increasing rather than decreasing the itnportance and benefit of the study of Latin and Greek. R. c. Hard Luck. I'm d:isgusted with girls and all theil· whims, Though I am called ''a ladies' tnan,\ But if you had been treated the way I've been, YotJ would Ray the same thing, Dan. You saw how that dark-eyed girl snubbed me, At my sister's luncheon to-day. And you were much puzzled and could not see Why she treated me that way. Now last Thursday I had an engage'lnent, To meet a friend ofn1ine; With whom I had made an appointment, To he in the depot at nine. Well, I entered the depot that morning, And had walked but a few paces, When I noticed the dock was not going And-one of the sweetest faces. With ·eyes just as brown as they could be, Dan, Though I thought they looked much distressed, And thinking it became a gentleman, To her side my way I pressed; And knowing it was just about nine, . I said: \You'll excuse me, I pray, But I thought you might wish to know the time And the clock has stopped to-day.'' The great brown eyes flashed into mine, A look that meant more·than anger; And she said: ''If I had not kqown it was nine, I should not have asked a stranger .. \ Then she drew he1· watch from her dainty, pink belt And wished me a haughty\ Good-day.\ While I, more crushed than I ever had felt, Wished that clock was miles away.'' I met her at my sister's to-day, And she would not notice me, Dan. Hut I'm not in love with her, anyway, That is-I don't think I am. I think I I ike girls best who have blue ·eyes; They never are haughty, nor frown; And, yet, before tne there will arise A face-and the eyes are-brown. M. L. F. Sine Qua Non. Ah, do not tell me of her charms, I know her beauty well, I know her lips an~ red and warm, Her eyes my praise com pel. I care not for such passing gifts, My heart, they could not win I do not scorn my Katie's lips, But ah, she has no ti 'n '! The brightest, fairest cheek may pale, With passing by of years, Of eye the light and gladness fail, Its lustre dimmed with tears, Of beauty th' reign too soon is past; Love's fires, as they begin, I would should burn on to the last; How can they with no ti 'n '? c. JAN. L. L. F. E. E. T. H. C. B. C. H. T. J. w. G. F. C. H. TERM SING] We1 inform; Sttbs receipt roomo papers All Schem Enter<: - T the SUt'J \' b . 111, ro'U con col1 1 stm . tn ha( Cit sa11 . Clr' wo qu~ of tl1t att

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~~HE·:· <§ONGO~_DIENSlS. ~ PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY p[aintiff. The case, decided against the College in the state courts, has, we understand, been carried before the United States Supretne Court. STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. * * * \ UNION's prospects for next year are very t flattering indeed. 1~he awakening of theAlutnni ! JAMES HowARD HANSoN,' '8g. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. I of the College throughout the 'country, and the L. L. CAMERON, '89. } F. E. llA WKES, '90, . E. T. CARROLL, '89, H. c. DEPUY, '90, B. c. LITTLE, '91' } H. T. MosHER, '9o, J. W. FERGUSO:\i. '91, ~. G. F. MosHER, '92, f c. H. FLANIGAN' '89, TERMS, SINGLE CoPIES AssociATES. • LITERARy EDITOR. AssociATES. BusiNESS EDITOR. AssociATES. GrLt.EsPrE CLUB EDITOR. $I.50 PER YEAR I::\ ADVA~CE. 20 CENTS. We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of interest and ' information concerning Alumni. Sttbscnptions taken at Robison's news room, 263 State str:eet, where receipts can be obtained. Extra copies can be obtained at above news room or on application to Business. Manager. Snhscribers not receiving papers promptly, will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be m~\de and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSis, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post Office, Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWS; PRINTER AND BOOKBINDER, SCHENECTADY, N Y. EDITORIAL. - THE conduct of tnany of the students during the Hatnilton-U nion gan1e at Ridgefield, was surprisingly ungentletnanly. The atten1pting to \' break up '' the opposing nines if persevered in, will give us, no .enviable reputation for rowdyism. It is not smart but rude, and such conduct on the part of college n1en to\!\rard . college tnen, deserve nothing but censure. * * * THE friends and Alun1ni of LTnion were startled son1e days sinc:e by an announcetnent in the Associated Press,- that the College had had a judgetnent filed against it by Long Island City, to the amount of sotne three hundred thou- sand dollars. Feeling that such a report, widely circulate.._d, would tend tq . hurt the college, we would say in explanation, that the 111atter in q ue3tion is an old one. The debt is largely one of interest on n1unicipa.~ :itnprovernents vvhich tl1e college is able to p~lY but objects to the atnount, hence the suit i1;1 which Union was the fonnation of g-raduate associations in st1ong centres have done tnuch to d ra\v once tnore the attention of the world to Alma Nlater Then too, the itnpression that Dr. Webster is tna king upon the country of being the tnan that he is-. - earnest, able, energetic and good-is fast reki nd- ling the flatne in favor of Old Union. As the present volume of the CoNCORDIENSIS draws to a close, we feel that the prophecy of its first nutnber will, .ere long, be ~~uHilled and tha!t the next editor will find a brighter field of lal::Jol-, in that the hopes of the present will have been ree:11ized. * * ·* THE glootny faces and depressed spirits ()f the Union n1en at the Inter-collegiate gatnes recently held, told ~rthe story of their deep disap·point- n1ent, or rather chagrin. Hardly a man was there, who did not go to Albany in high glee, expecting to see. Union .carry off her share ·Of the honors. When the p::linful fact catne to be realized, that our share would he an exceedingly srnall one at the tnost, the first iinpulse was to find son1e one on who1n to lay the blame. The facilities for practice cannot be accounted guilty nor can our trainer, Prof. VanDerveer ; both excel those of any coHege in the le~lgue The fault, ·and it ir a serious one, lies with the students thetnselves. 1\'he authorship of the aphorisn1, ~. Suretyship is the precursor of ruin;\ n1ade an old Greek forever farnous. Tl1e truth of the tnaxirn has frequently been brought before the tninds of the Union students of to-day. We ahvays n1anage, by stretching our in1aginations, to get out·selves upon a high pinnacle, only to wake up on a sudden and :find our lofty strllcture prone upon the ground. .Hovv could it be other- wise? It was si tnply c:~ ,pyran1id standing on its apex. Ere anothet: se~~Oll C0111CS -around' let us I' ' have a base hall nine and an athletic ass(:)ciation ! ~ r ·with tnuch tnore practice ~tnd far less vain confidence.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. COLLEGE .NEWS. Dr.- Griswold, OAKLAND, March 7, I889. Our Alumni in California. While on the Pacific Coast last winter, Pro- fessor Wells, as a labor of love, visited all the Alu1nni of Union in any way within his reach:, and especially called on. all in and near San Francisco. DEAR SIR: Pardon tne for not r,eplying to your note of invitation to a re-union of alun1ni of Union College, before this. I shall be most happy to attend at the time specified. I hope this gathering will be a tneans of organizing, in permanent forn1, those who look back with pride to fonner days passed in the honored halls of our Ahna Mater. The result was that they kindly returned tl1is attention in the issuance of a call to give hitn a reception and a banquet before his departuTe. Tl1e replies t<;> this invitation 'vere wann and hearty as will be seen by some of then1 which we give below : Class of' 57. Yours Truly, ]. B. lVIc CHESNEY. SACRAMENTO, March 6th, 1889. .W. W. Griswold, il£. D. and Wm. Britton, Esq., San Francz\sco. Ge1ztlemen: y·our kind favor of the rst inst., inviting tne to join you in a reunion and banquet to be given by the sonl:-5 of \ Old lJnion\ on Tuesday evening, March I 2th, in cornplitnent to Professor Wells, is received. It is unnecessary for tne to assure you that it would afford n1e great pleasu1:e to be present and enjoy with you the festivities of such an occasion. Grand old Dr. Nott! (\~Old Prex\ as we used to fatniliarly call hitn ;) and grander still \ Old Union \ herself! I revere the 1ne1nory of both for the good that they have wrought. It is possible that the Legislature will adjourn sine die on Saturday next, and if so, I shall 1nost certainly be present and enjoy with you the festivities of the occassion; but I fear we wiU ' not adjourn until next week Saturday, in which event, I regret to say, I shall be unable to attend. Desiring to be re1nen1bered to all and hoping that you will have a tnost happy reunion, I . retnatn, Fraternally Yours, c. II. HEACOCK. BERKLEY, March 5, 1889. Dr.. W. W. Griswold, DEAR S 1 n : Your note of the I st inst is just received. I hasten to say that it will give n1e great pleasure to tneet Pr<?f. Wells and the sons of H Old Union\ on 1'uesday evening, March -I zth. · Yours Very Truly~ W. WILKINSON. SANTA RosA, Cal., Feb. I st, r 889 W. W. Gris'Zt.Jold, .iVE. D. MY D·EAR SIR: Your favor extending invita- ·, · tion to join you at ·banquet of the Alutnni of old U ni?n College, catne t.o han(~~~es_terday. ·y- o~r motive 1neets tny hearty appreciation, and I w11l be with you on that joyous occasion, Providence pennitting. Yours as ever, MARK L. McDoNALD. Class '59· \ 'Vith this encouragetnent the Banquet was appointed to be held on the evening of March I 2, at the Occidental, one of the finest Hotel in the city. The proceedings. were published in one of the l~ading journals of San Francisco, and we copy thetn verbatim etc., below. An1ong the college tnen that have helped to shape the fortunes of the .Pacific Slope, none look back to the hotnes of their childhood, their ' early instructions, tnore than do those of that fatuous old college of the State of New York in the old Dutch town of Schenectady. Dr. Eliphalet NDtt ,was in r~lity the founder of it and presided over it for about two generatim1s of tuen, and then lived for years afterward in a state of second childhood until well nigh his centen- nial birthday. He was fatuous as a practical instructor of successful tnen, and tnany of these turned their steps toward the Gold.en State in pursuit of wealth and fatne. J.\tiany of thetn were &uccess- ful and finally joined their interests with the - ·gro\ frui:1 to tl they hem ont '[ fon~ thet neVi sco~ a n fon Ho O're 0 knc Wi o£.1 Ian for: anc ma. the sor U:n of· tal pa: \V,E fa\ tht the let re• Stl w as nc St ak of M :F: JM .A -£~ <J1

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 139 - -----·----~---·----- tnen throughol1t the State foe the purpose of arn1ual tneetings. After the adoption of a constitution and by- ·growing land of gold and wheat and luscious frui:ts.. And still in quiet hours they look back to the scenes and ties of young· tnanhood when they were wild and thoughtless, though generous he~rt4ted college boys, indulging in n12ny a prank on teacher and cotnrades. laws, and electing officers, the cornpany ad- . journed, with expressions of pleasure at the These loyal sons of A1rna Mater were there- fol'e very glad to welco1ne an old teacher an1·ong thern ~ with his wealth of story of the old and new. Professor Williatn .. Wells, for over a sc<n~e of years one of the faculty of Union, found a .most hearty reception and a welcon1c in the fon-n of an alutnni banquet at the Occidental Hotel. It was a distinguished co·1npany that greeted hitn, for what San Franciscan does not know of Levi C. Lane, M. D.~ and of Dr. Wilkins<?n of the State institution at Berkley, or o£.Principal McChPsney of the schools of Oak- land and others .h~t 1night be named? T'hey forgot not their boyish days of fun and frolic, and like nothing bette1· than to pass in review ma..ny a day and perhaps tnany a night when they n1ade the welkin Ting with joyons college songs. Professor WeLls, in a chatty story of old Union's haps and mishaps, opened the fountains oftheir tnetnories, -vvhich poured forth tnany a tale of the olden titne. Pleasant incidents were pa~sed in quick review, .and endless questions 1vvere asked as to the fate .and career of various favorites atnong the faculty, or the boys, until the advanced hour bid the elderly tnen hie away their hotnes. But they first resolved before so doing not to let this be the last tneeting of the kind. They received with pleasure the grateful ne\NS of the success of the new President, Dr. lim-rison E. Webster, and sent through Prof~ssor \Vells the as-suran~e of loyalty to the gra_y old halls that are now venerable in their sight. They fonned an Alun1ni Association for the State of California, co1nposed of the gentletnen above tnentioned, together with Mark 1\icDonald of Sa~ta Rosa, Isaac N. Thorne of this city, Dr. Me Lean of Oakland~ Dr. Gris,volcl of San FTancisc.o, Lieutenant Hollis of the navy and Major Me Murray of the anny, Judge Mc- Alister of this city and Lawyers Talcott, Swort- iiiguer and Britton of this city. These and <Jthe1·s will be linked together with the Union . reunlon. ----------------- President Webster Before the Troy Con- ference-· ·Introduced by Prof ·wens-A Warm Reception and a Good Speech. The 'I'roy conferecce in session at Saratoga~ towards the close of the first niorning ~ession, by the courtesy of the cotninittee and the presiding Bishop Andrews, Prof. Wells was invited to the· platform to say a few words to the conference regarding the present status of the college and the work of the Methodist representatives in its faculty, showing to the conference the advan- tages that it had enjoyed in this line for n1any years. His real object was to introduce to the con- ference the new presklent of the college, Dr. Webster. who was then invited to the platfonn by the bishop and was received by the confer.: ence standing. Dr. Webster was in a very happy tnood for the occasion and assured the clerical body th[tt Union college wns in a rnost en1phatic sense a christian college without teac.hi ng dog1nas~ basing its hihlical instructions on the broad platfo rrn of christian love and unity. He was careful to say that with the college there was no conflict between science and religion., and the latter was not specially defended because it -vvas in no need of defence. His ren1arks were recei_ved with great enthn- siasn1, and he held quite a levee after th~ ad- journtnent of the body for the 1norning. He 1net no less than ten graduates of the college in rninisterial work in conference relations, and several gentlen1en who have honorary degrees fro1n her hands. In short he vvas soon n1ade to feel at hotne atnong the n1e1nbers, and received the n1ost cordial attention.frotn the Union college rpen during the afternoon, at the close of which he returned feeling that he·had a pleasant and profitable day atnong that large body of 1nen who corn pose the Troy annual conference within whose bonds Union college has been situated ior so tnany years. •

--~~~~------~--------=---------------------~---~==~----===~======================~======~ Tf-IE CONCORDIENSIS. Fraternity Greetings to President Web- ster. The Psi UpsiFon Club house, at No. 33 West Forty-second stt;eet, was on Saturday evening, May IS,. owned in fee by the Theta, or Union Chapter, on the occasion of the receptio11 ex- tended by thetn tG); President Harrison E. Web- ster, of Union College. About thirty-five of the resident rnetnbers of the Theta Chapter, as well as a few men1be11s invited fro111 out of town, were present to h:onor the guest of the evening. Judge Hooper C. V ari< V orst, on the part of the fraternity, welcorned Dr. Webster to their hospi- tality in a graceru:l address. He recalled the fact that Psi Upsi I'on. like tnost of the older Greek letter societies, derived its origin fron1 Union College, and gave son1e enjoyable ren1iniscences of tl~-e society's early struggle to overcotne the unitted opposition of the literary societies, and hOY\' the favor of President N ott was successfully invoked. 1'he policy of Union had always, he sa:id, been to foster rather than to suppress or deskoy the Greek letter organiza- tions, and tin1e had justified the wisdotu of this spirit of liberality. He congratulated the presi- dent upon the success of his adtninistration, the happy outlook for tl1e college, and the universal enthusiastn -vvhich hi>s wise and vigorous course was inspiring into faculty, altnnni and students. PRESIDENT' 'VEBSTER 's TALK. Dr. Webster, in reply, expressed the gratifica- tion he felt in 111eeti ng with the altunni 1nen1bers of the Theta ChaptE\r of Psi U., frorn whose annual convention in Rochester he had just cotne. Although himself a Zeta Psi, his rela- ' tions with the Psi U .'s, as well as with one or two other fraternities, had been so intitnate that he felt ahnost as one of then1. He heartily approved of the .college fraternities, and instead of regarding thetn as the etnanatiop of the Evil One and their chief function and atnhition the raising of the san1e, they were, in his opinion, a positive aid, not only to the student hut also to the facultv in the n1ai ntenance of sound instruc- tion and college or(ler. So long as they kept to - the high standnrd of conduct and scholarship which characterize(} the fraternities at Union, they would tneet w~i th nothing but encourage- tnent and liberal treatJnent at the hands of the faculty. The trustees had recently assigned to the Theta Chapter one of the 1nost beautiful sites on the college catnpus for their chapter house, <tnd he hoped the boys would obtain encourage- tnent frotn the ahunni of the chapter in corn- pleting their new chapter hon1e. THE PARENTAL THEORY OF COLLEGE GOV- ERNMENT. Passing to the subject of college govern 1nent in general, Dr. Webster s<:~id he was a finn believer in the parental systen1 of college educa- tion vv hich Dr. Nott had so successfully prac- ticed. He did not believe that the duty of the professor to the pupil ended vvith the disn1issal of the class, but that the faculty were personally respo11sible for the tnoral and physical develop- n1ent of the student as well as the intellectual. With this systen1 in view, large ntunbers were not desirable. The present teaching force at Union is larger and certainly as devoted and as effective as at any ti1ne in the history of the college; but the large nutubers which fifty yee:1rs ago thronged the college halls would now be an etnbarrasstuent and a tnisfortune. The reason is that in the old days students were allowed to re1nain whether they kept up their work with the class or not. Now, however, as soon ~ls it is evident that a student will not or cannot do the work he is infonned that be cannot with profit either to hitnself or his class1nates re1nain with his class, and he is retnoved. '' Unless the teaching force is still further increased,\ said Dr. Webster, ''and the endowtnents increased proportionately, I do not want to see over 2 so students in lT nion College, for t<? a larger nunl- ber we cannot do full justice.\ This litnit will apparently soon be reached. Last year's class was nearly double thut of the preceding year, while a still larger next year is assured. CHRISTIANITY THE BA~S OF COLL~GE TRAINING. While Union was, and is, in its odgin, in its history and in all its tendencies a non-sectarian college, it is ju&t as positively a· Christian college. The pure and sitnple religion of Jesus Cbdst is recognized as the basis of all the instruction. Nor is this incotnpatible with the \ teacl bet\i\ -conf s. co lit visit fuln1 ecor he s sine a fo ignc '' trus app No altn dut: pro Un: the tiot the of 1 ( M2 Pre put we ch CL . 111( Sa tht th( w H ah pr nu W. pr B1 C1 th c F, B

\ THE CONCORDIENSIS. I4I teaching of the tnost, advanced science, for between Chri~tianity and science there can be no conflict. The Base BaJl Trip. The nine that left May 16th to play the other colleges in the New York State league, consisted of Me Donald, pitcher and captain; Rhinehart, S. B. Brownell, the senior trustee of the college, adrnitted that he was not a frequent visitor at the club house, but testified to the use- fulness of the Greek letter. societies in the college economy. The question of their right to exist, he said, is no longer an open one, having long since been decided in the affinnative. They are a force which no college officer can afford to · catcher ; Pickford, first base ; \Lewis, second base ; Mosher, third base; Little, short stop ; Hunsicker, left field; Stnith, centre and Mc- Q}leen, right field ; DePuy, substitute. The first gatne was played with Rochester University on May 17th, and resulted in our deteat by a score of 23-r6. We offer no excuse for this abotninable score, save that Rhinehart was knocked out in second inning, thus making it necessant to put in a substitute battery. It is sufficient to say that it was the n1ost distnal game that could have been devised to entertain the large nutnber of college tnen assetnbled at Rochester attending the Psi Upsilon convention ; . tgnore. ~' The dignity and respon~ibility of a college trustee,\ said Mr. Brownell, '' is not gel)erally appreciated, and is often too lightly esteen1ed. No n1an who has in his l1eart a true love for altna mater can conscientiously shrink from any duty which devolves upon hhn, either as trustee, professor or alutnnus, and it is the duty of every Union man to vigorously support the officers of . the college who are charged with the administra- tion of its affairs, and to hold up the hands of the new president in his earnest efforts in behalf of the college.\ Other speeches were made by Dr. James S. MacKie, '45 ; Edward L. Stevens, '55, and Prof. J atnes R. Truax, of the college, and a puen1 was read by Ward McLean, '43. Letters were read fron1 ex-Gov. A. H. Rice, of Massa- chusetts; the Rev. Dr. M. VanRensellaer, Clark Brooks, Frederick W. Seward and others, including an interesting letter frorn the Rev. Satnuel Goodale, D. D., of Nebraska, one of the founders of the society. Besides the president there were present fron1 the faculty Prof. J. R. Truax, Prof. T. W. Wright and Prof ..... ~. S. Wright. Prof. Benjan1in H. Ripton and Prof. Wendell Latnoroux are also tnen.1bers of the Theta Chapter, but were prevented frotn being present. Atnong the nutnber in attendai1ce were John T. Mygatt, to whose efforts the success of the event was principally due ; the Rev. Henry A. Powell, of Brooklyn ~ E. W. Crittenden, Williatn P. Cha.tnbers, John M. Rider, Herbert S. Wilbur~ the Rev. W. A. Waddell, Satnuel T. Freeman, Charles T. Haviland, H. R. Fancher, W. T. Foote, and Dr. F. H. Dillinghan1 fron1 the Bowdoin Chapter. and undoubtedly gave them a high appreciation of New York college ball games. A,T SYRACUSE. The ne~t tnorning at Syracuse, the college located there presented a good nine and a valuable urnpire. He was so valuable to Syracuse that it was in vain for Me Donald to split the plate; the Syracuse n1en got their base on balls never- theless. Yet, notwithstanding this, the score at the beginning of the last half of the ninth inning stood I I to 9 in favor of U11ion; but in this half the utnpire's valuable qualities and three errors by Union let in three runs, and we were defeated I I-IOi rfhe gatn~ has been protested. AT MADISON. The following two days the nine was to have played at Hatnilton and 1v.Iadison Colleges ; but both garnes were delayed by rain ; and it was not until the tnorning of May 22nd that the gatne with Madison catne of[ J\1adison had won, up to this titne, every gatne she had played ; defeat- ing Syracuse, Rochester and I-Ian1ilton .. This was her fifth league gatne,. and it was with great delight, if not sotne surprise, that word was received, that Union had won by a score of 5-6. The features of this gatne were the excellent catching of Hunsicker, an unassisted double play by Lewis, and the strong work of the battery. AT HAMILTON. The joy over ~Iadison's defeat in the morning was hardly subsided, when our wonder was \.

142 T'HE CONC'O·RDIENSIS. further increased by hearing that the game at Hatnilton in the afternoon had been won by Union 11-7. This was the tea1n that had defeated Syracuse 19-o; and the gaze of the Union rnen was once n1ore directed. toward first place in the league. 'The ga1ne was characterized by hard hitting by the Union tnen, every tnan who stepped to the plate, seerning to find the , delusive Geer; while but three base hits we1 4 e ,, made by Hatnilton from Me DonaJ!d's pitching. Both gatnes testified to the good qualities of the ~~ nine and showed ,a retnarkable improven1ent in ' base running; the fellows running with a snap and coolness that often made scores. THE ANNUAL FIELD. DAY. -The field day this year took place on Friday, May 1oth. As the Inter-collegiate tournament was to take place under the auspices of Union ,, two weeks later, but little attention was given to this it, being arranged principally to decide upon what tnen to enter at the Intercollegiate. The following 1nen won their events.: 100 yard Dash, Stewart,. '90, 10-! sec. Hammer Throw, Culver, '89, 68ft., 6 inches. ~Mile Run, Furbeck, '92, 2 min., 27 sec. Putting the shot, McQueen, '92, 28 ft., 7 inches. 220 yard Run, Stewart, '90. Running Broad Jump, Smith, '92, 17ft., 4 inches. The relay race between '90 and '92 was won by the Freshmen. The tug-of war between the Freshmen and Sopho- mores was won by '9r in a two minute pull. -The following attended the Psi Upsilon convention held with Rochester :university on May 16th and 17th. Culver '89, Hawkes, De Puv, Mosher and Clute, '90, Robertson, '91, \' and Mosher, '92. Culver, Hawkes and Mosher acted as delegates fron1 the Theta Chapter.. Locals. -Can you graduate ? -What's the tnatt.er with the nin€? -Senior vacation after the twenty-ninth. -Besides a diploina tax o(four dollars, eighty- nine pays a graduation fee of eight-fifty. -· -The canrpus, with all the college grounds, never presented a tnore channing aspect than at present. -The Junior assernbly which was held in the Arcade Hall, May 1oth, was a perfect success and refleotecl tnuch credit upon '9o's hop cotn- rnittee. -With the exceptions of chapel service and senior oratoricals, the college will be granted a recess .Friday the 24th, on account of the inter- collegiate field-day. -The second concert, under the auspices of the Ladies~ Musical Union of this city, was given in the college chapel the 16th inst, and was tnost successful in every particular. -P1:ofessor Brown~ wit~1 the Senior, Junior and Sophomore engineers, tnade a tri'p to Rottnd · Lake early in the month, for the purpose of inspecting J. M. Powers' celebrated patent pro- cess of sewerage disposal which has recently been intToduced into the drainage systeJn of that place and they found it to be perfectly satisfac- tory. Tl1ey also visited l\1echanicville and examined the work which is in process on the Chatnplain Canal. -Union is well represented in the inter- collegiate field day which is held at Island Park,. Friday the twenty-fourth, under her supervision, and tnay she figure conspicuously in the prizes. Following are the entries frotn Union: Culver, '89,-100 yards, r2o and 220 Hurdle. Stewart, '9o,-1oo and 220 yards Run. Me Donald, '9o,-roo and 220 yar·ds Run. Clute, 'g>,-Ji and }2 mile Run. Furbeck, '92,-~ mile Run. Trumbull, '92,-U mile Run. Dugall, '92,-X( mile Run. -Prize essays 1nust be in by June first. Landon, '86,-Pole Vault, High Jump, Broad Jump and Putting Shot. -There will be no college exercises Decora- tion Day. -Quayle of Albany has ·received '89's order for cointnencement cards. Hills, '92,-Bicycle. Smith, '92.-Eroad Jump. Me Q.!.1een, '92,-Putting Shot. Vorhees, '89, Pickford, '9o, Little, '91 and Daley '92, -Tennis. . DePuy, '90,-'rug of war (Anchor.) - \/ ... ,;j ~ . lan yot Up ha.E neE an< ·OC< naJ ~ ), '-~~-~ ha: C<J Tr w tvv Et re G, ~ II at E F J - ll

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 143 . P:eisonals. \/;;,61.. Tirnothy Lightborn was born in Eng- land, but cotning to this ·country when quite young, settled in Sanquat,- Oneida Co., N. Y. Upon grad'\i1ation, he returned to England and ha.s been a very successful and protninent busi- ness tnan. He is a tnmrufacturer of linen goods and. paper, has been Mayor of Darwen, and has occupied rnany other official positions in his native land . . / .· handsom~e illustrations of celebrated Yachts. An exceUent fishing sketch,. entitled '' The Pleasures of Fly Fishing,\ by \V. Holberton, appears in Outz\ng for June. Daniel C. Beard, has furnished six spirited pen-and-ink drawings. In Outing for June appears \The Care of Dogs, by D. Boulton .. Herrald. This article will be of great value to all lovers ot dogs, tor the mass of useful infonnation it contains. In Ouli1zg for June Alfred Balch discusses \Catnping Outfits and Equiptnent.\ This article wiB be of great value to all who contetn .. plate roughing it in the n1o-st con1fortable way. \.\'\ Botner Greene, the well-known author, has· .a book in the press of Houghton, MiHin & Co., Boston, on '' Coal and the Coal Mines.\ '8r. J. · P. Lyons was tnarried recendy in Boating is such a popular pastitne, that Mr. C. Turner's article on \ Pleasures and Pastimes on the Cam,\ which appears in Outing for June, : will be eagerly read. The ·paper is richly illustrated £ron1 photographs, etchings, etc. Outing for June contains a very good article ' on ''Australian Cricket\ by G. H. D. ·Gossip, which gives the readet· an ·excellent idea of the ,, strides colonial cricket has rnade of late years. Troy, and has taken ~1p his residence in Tacotna, Washington. '82. Roseboom is about to start with twenty-five others on a bicycle tour thxough Europe. M';. Waddell, located in San Pedro, Cal., represents the Presbytery of Los Angeles at the General Assernbly in New York, this year. ~e \'rill attend Commencen1ent.'\ /s4. Hutchinson has abandoned :the ministry and is now a cotutnercial traveller. ~6. Ostrander occupies a good position in tl1e State Engineer's office. at Albany. v'.S6. Landon was recently adtnitted to the Bar of New York State. . '87. Pepper will spend the summer in France / -';87. Bridge was recently adtni tted to the New York State Bar. ((\\' t,..'.87. Funnan graduated last month fron1 the .Albany Medical College, and is now practising in aNew York hospital. '88, Me Intyre will occupy, during the surnmer, the pulpit of the Presbyterian church ·at-Chester, Warren Co. Review. Outing for June contains a re1narka ble account of \Yacht Voyages to ·Australia,\ by F. C. Sun1.ichrast. The text is en1 bellished with Ouf't'ng for June is of great interest to the general reader. Atnong the1n are \June Days in the Saddle,\ by C. H. Crandall ; '' The Cruise of the Sybaris and Sha\v-Shaw,\ by E. L. Chicheste-r, and a cycling story by President Bates, entitled, \ How O'Tulliver Bard won the Chan1·pionship.'' An article of practical value to ladies who conternplate a trip to Europe is \Ladies' Short Purses in Europe,\ by Horteur Hathaway, which appears in Outing for June. Outing for June is a nun1 ber to delight all lovets of outdoor literature. The leading article, \Yacht Voyages to Australia,\ by F. C. Surnichrast, describes passages made to that far- off country. Excellent illustrations embellish the article. Other principal article are\ Sports, Pastirne and Pleasures on the Catn,\ by C. Turner, richly illustrated; '' The Pleasures of Fly Fishing, by W. Holberton, for which Daniel C. Beard has furnished pen-and-ink drawings; and the \ Care of Dogs,\ by that well-known authority, D. Boulton Herrald. Lovers of the horse will read with pleasure \June Days in the Saddle,\ by C. H. Crandall. Cricketers will be Interested in \ Cricket in Australia,\ by G. H. D. Gossip. \Camping Outfits and Equipn1ent,\ .is an article of value to all who wish to spend a · sutntne:r in the woods. \ How O'Tulliver Bard won the Chatnpionship\ will interest wheel- men. '' The Bobolink,\ \ The Scarlet Pitn- pernel,\ ''One Day Upon the Hills,\ and \Boating are poetns of much merit. The Editorials e1nhrace criticisms on Photography, Lawn Tennis and Yachting, while the Outing Club and other departn1ents, as well as Records, contain n1uch useful and titnely infonnation.

AD J7ERT ISEMENTS. ''SPEO:IAL 1 ' f;[i~h ~ erass + ei~arrett!es. .. DE LONG'S Ladies' and Gent's Restaurant, ro4 WALL STREET. FIRST-CLAss IN EvERY APPOINTMENT. · Oe.te:ri::t:~..g a S:peoi.a.l ty. PROFlTABLE VACA.fiON WORK. The STATESMAN COMPANY, Chicago, afforded very profitable work to a number of college students during- the past summer, and is pre- pared to do the same for anyone who cares to give part of his Christmas vacation to the purpose of making an honest dollar. Anyone so minded can learn the full particulars by addressing, with stamp, THE STATESMAN CO. po Wash'ton St., Chicago. $75 00 tO ~25' Q 00 A MONTir can be made working for us. , · · · ljJ). · • Agents prefened who can furnish a horse and give their whole time to the business. Spare moments may be profitably employed also. A few vacancies in towns and cities. B. F. JOHNSON & CO., x:oog Main St., Richmond, Va. N. B.-Laclie.s Employed also. Never mind about se1zdi1tg stamp for rejtv. Come qtt·ick. Yoursfor lnP;, .LJ. F. :J. &> Co. New England Bureall of Education. HIRAM OBCTJT'l', Manager, 3 SOMEitSE'r S'r., :SOS'l'CN. C-irculars and Forms Free. · l Testimom'a!.] From Supt. A. P. SToNE, Springfield, Mass.-We have obtained several teachers from the New England B-ureau of Education for the schools of this city, aU of whom have pr()ved highly satisfactory. We have always found there a good list of well-educated and experienced teachers to select froin, and the reptesentations made to us concerning the candidates :have 'been in every case fuJI, reliabl~ and true. Much time has been saved by seeking teachers th.r<>-ugh the Bureau. From Han. JoliN EATON, Pres. Marz'ettrx. College and for 16 years U. S. C()m, of .Educatlon :-From my kn<lwledge of Dr. Hiram Orcutt, I should not expect any man in the country to excel him in selecting the right teacher for t:he right place. ACADEMICAL GOWNS. Correct styles and materials for University and Col- lege use .. These Gowns add grace and fullness to the speaker's forrn, and are universally worn. Prices, $15 to $25, according to 1naterial. Specia} prices f<>r large numbers to classes. For measurement, send height, width of shoulders, size of neck,. length of sleeve. Address a.~- sJ:::r:..,a:::::tv!to~s &s co., S ~ '::t'O 4:4: :N\' 0 ~rr::a: S'J:I:S::::E::::E:'J:', BOSTON, MASS. TEACHERS WANTED! Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for :tvlusic, also Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application form and circular~ of in- formation to NAT.lONAL SCHOOL SUPPLT BUREAU, Mention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Li~e:ry . Stable., 304 CLINTON STREET. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Depot Calls a Speclalty. / R th Wl m hi 0 at A ~ (

/ ADVERTISEMENTS. ====~==================================~========~-~==· -~~-----·~·------------~----_.-_-.--~~---~~-~ Richmond Straight-.Cut No. I Cigarettes. Cigarette smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the pt•ice charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will :find THIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. r Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the · Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and wag brought out by us in the year I87.5· Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, Richtnond, Va. CHAS. BOLTZMANN, CLOTHIER & ~fERCHANT TAILOR, Nos. 2oi and 203 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Perfect Jt'z\t and Good Work Guaranteed. • EUGENE c. HULBERT' (Successor to Barhyte & Hulbert,.) n·EALER IN :BOOICS AND STATIONERY, Paper Hangings and Decorations. A Full Line of Colleg-e Text Books. Rooms Papered at Short Not-ice. ELEGANT AND USEFU.L ~OODS. Our assortment tnc_ludes a full ltne of Elegant Lmnpt-;, China, Fancy Glassware and Novelties in great variety. Many other attractions too numerous to mention-· COME. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ~ Y. M. C. A. Buildl.ng. =====·.::::==--=-=--·-_-- ___ .. _____ ._·_, -==== WOOD BROS., . fdEN'~ Ntl~)\ll~Jll)\lG G88D~, SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HO~IER¥, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. . ~ G-ood;s :received. £ox r:I:':ro'Y' La.u::n.d:ry. 255 State Street, SCFJENECTADY, N. r. DR. o. J. GROSS, OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. ZVJ. TO 4 P. M. rs6 Jay Street, ScHENECTADY, N. Y . A.M. POWERS, PHOTOGRAPHIC ARTIST. 235 STATE STREET, ScHENECTADY, N.Y. No. 429 State St., Sche1zectady, N. r. AUGUST SCHMIDT. ZIMMER & KINGMAN, ld\Ueiiy pale and E,;cchan~e Stables, 130, 132 AND 134 CENTRE STREET. OPPOSITE GIVENS HOTEL, Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. (UP Stalrs.) Telephone Connection.

. -----'7\\ )\ ,#'• I AD VER TlSE}}fENTS. S . E. MILLER, JR., • Neclh.vea r, U?tderwea 1:, Hoslny, Glo~ves, etc. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts and Coats, .Norfolk Jackets, Knee Pants, and Bicycl€ Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. eliAS. N. YATES., . . 1.36 State Street, Sc#e?zect(ldy. N. r. - RU~NI!l1UT~E ~tS- WA~E~OOM.S. Beds, Chairs, Mattresses, and all .articleR pertain- ing to furnishing student's rooms. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANr. · .~ Goons DELIVERED FREE. A BROWN & SON, . JAY A. RICkARD, . Manufacturer's Agent and Job~r of ESTABLISHED 1829. ~Upholsterers and Furniture Dealers.~ 253 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. J02 STATE ST., SCHENECTADr, N. r. All Orders by k1az'l will Recdve .Prompt Attention. CLARKE, CATERER NOTMAN PHOTOGRAPHIC co., 48 .LVORTH PEARL ST., ALBANr. --TO- WEDDINGS, BANQUETS & PARTIES, : Reduced Ra1 es to Students. 49 Hudson Aven11e, ALBAN r, 1.V. r. College Views and Faculty Pictu1~es Kept in Stock. THE WENDELL MUSIC CO., Limited. HARMAN CONSAUL, Pianos, Organs and Music. FULL STOCK AT LOWEST PRICES 89 & 91 NoRTH PEARL St., ALBANY, N.Y. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. \ kliPLO]VIf!~, YIEW~, FO~TI\f!IT~, WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. Original Desz'gns when Desi1·ed . Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Boots, Shoes and Rubbers, 260 State .Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, ~e:roha:c.. t 'J:'ailo:r., 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. - J 1 :N Ci ] J

AD VER TJSEMENTS. J • V. VROOMAN & SON, EST~BLISHED 1854· Dealer in HARDWA'RE, STOV·ES, TINWARE, PLUMBING, STEAM AND HoT AIR FuRNAcEs. All Plumbing, ?team and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to. 138 and 140 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. HANFORD ROBISON, NEWSDEALER AND STATIONER; 26j STATE STREET. Cigan,, Tobacco, and Cigarettes. Newspapers and Magazines. Circulating Library. L.A. YOUNG, ET:CHINGS, ENGR~WlNGS : : : . .··. · .. ··· .• ·. · ... · ' ·' . ll~t~MAIERIAl~ w T HANSON & CO., .· ·.···. * • 335 STATE STREET, Druggists and Apothecaries. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. Proprietors of HANSON's MAGIC CoRN SALvE. 335 State Sheet, Schenectady, N. Y. TOILET ARTICLES. DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. ESTAELISHED 184o. GAVIT & CO., PRINTERS & ENGRAVERS, ALBA:N·Y, N. Y. Special Atte?Ztlott g-iven to College w-ork. HARTLEY . ' DEALER IN __ J?ia:c..os., O:tga:c..s ·~ Ch ~ -AND- . o1ce Groceries and Frovisions~ MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLY. Imported and D01nestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery, &c. Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines; ARCADE BLOCK, lii..T y Fi1ze B1ttter a specialty. 6or and 6oJ ~_,~'1.ion Street. SCHENECTADY. ~\\· . KING'S (lents' Ftlritishitlg E111porittlll, 218 STATE STREET. The finest line of Men's Apparel can be found here. All Novelties in Neckties. etc . . Call and see our variety of College Shades in ~1uffiers, . Handkerchiefs and Ties. Goods received for Troy Laundry. ARTISTIC P~l]\llFI]\lG ~ B8.8K Bl]\1DI]\lG. CHAS. BURROWS, 332 State Street. Scltenectady, N. Y. NEW ONE-PRICE CLOTHING and MEN'S FURNISHING GOODS HOUSE. JII STATE STREET, Cor. WALL, SCHENECTADr, N. T. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work, Headquarters for Boy's and Children's Clothing. PRICES LOWER THAN THE LOWEST.

ADVERTISEMENTS. - -----~ --- -- ------------ --~---------- --- -- -- ----------- THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCIIENECT'AD .. Y, N. \'\. Sprague Electric Motors, 'Edison Undergrouu(l Conductors.· -------------- --------- - ---------- - ----- - - .,__ -------- --AND-- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACIIINERY. =:::::::====::~==~ ~- -- ~ ~- ~~- ~ - ~ ---- ~- --~ -- -:c~~==:- -=-- --- -- ~ WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED THE BEST INVESTMENT FOR t.he Family, the School, the Professional or Private Library. The latest edition Ponta.in~ 3000 ruorp Wore]~ antl nPa!'Iy 2DOO more Engravings than any other A meriean lJktiouary . .Among the supplementary features, original with Webster's Unabridged, and unequaiPd for concise and trustworthy information, are A BIOCRAPHICAL DICTIONARY giving brief fal'ts CIHl<'Ptning ll<'arly 111,1 JUU Noted Per-.1ms of anciPnt and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF THE WORLD l10cating and bri<·fly de~cribing 25j1)00 Pla<'eH; ~nd the Vocabulary of the names. of Nnt<'d FICTITIOUS PERSONS & PLACES The latter il:! not found in any other Dictiona·ry. ~ We:bster excels in SYNONY.lliS, wlti<·h are appropriat('ly found in the Lody of Ute work. Wehsteris Standard Authority in the Go:v'tPrinting Office, an<i with the U. S. Supreme Court. lt is recommended by the State Supt'!i of Schools of 3.6 States, and by the l<'ading- C()Jiege Presidents of the U.S. and Canada. Illustrated Pamphlet R€nt free. P:ublished by G. & C. MERRIAM & CO., Springfield, ~Ia~s. KIMBALL'S Str~iglt-~ut ~lgar~tt~s. [ 1 Jtsllrj>asscd ht .~uality. {.\('(/ l~l' Froj!t· o/ Rrj;llt'd Taste. The finest S:r:n.oking :lM:ri:x:tu::res a.re of our :tv.:r:a:n. ufacture. TVAI. S. A.~.llii BALL & CO., FifterJZ P'irst Prize .ilieda ls. Rorhcs!t·r, N. r. '· t.' ''·\':. .-·~ CJ w ]

AD VERTISEiWENTS. ----·-----------------------------------------------------------~----~-------------- ·--~------------- --------- THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, Sprague Eleetric Motors, 1 1 .,l], 1. ~ o· Jl· '-J' ' ' k:) ' Underground Contluctors. · --AND-- GENERAL ::n.LrAOHINERY. EDISON ETJECTRIC -- -- --· - - WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED THE BEST INVESTMENT FOR the Family, the School, the Profet:>sional or Private Library. The latest edition <'ontain~ 3000 morp WordH a11d twarly 2000 more Engravings than any other Ameril'an I>idionary. Among the supplementl.lry featurPB, original with \\'t>hster'H Unabridged, and tmequal<'d fur concise and trm;tworthy information, are A BIOCRAPHICAL DICTIONARY giving brief fac·ts enne(•rning; 1warly lii,<JlJ()-_KotL•d Per,..ons of atH•iPnt and modern times. A CAZETTEER OF THE WORLD locating and bridly desl'ribing; 2.'i,ooo Plaees; and tiiP Y<H\al tllla.r.v of the nameH of 1\'ot<•rl FICTITIOUS PERSONS& PLACES The lattl·r is not found in anv other 1Jietionarv. Webster excels in SYNONYl\IS, · wlli<'11 are appr<hwiatr·ly found in the body of the work. WehRteris Standard Authority in thP Gov't Printing Office, and with the U. S. Supreme Court. 1t is rP<:ommendPrl l.y thP. State Supt'!l of Schools of 36 States, and bytlw lf·nding College Presidents of tlw L\. S. ~nd ('unada. Illustratf'd PnmphlPt SPilt frPl', Published by G. & C. MERRIAM & CO., f-;pringfi<>ld, ~Ia:-;s, MACIIINEitY. KIMBALLJS lTllSNrj>ass{'(/ ill ·':.!tta!t'~v . .( ~,·td l~v Fr oj!t· o/ Nrjtl'Jn{ Taste. The finest Smoking ~ix:tures are of our l.v.l:a:n ufa.cture. Norltl'sln·, .JV. 1~ c v

'\ •', ·,. '·.' .-·.··. '. ' ' ..... )\ ' ' ' ' ' ' : ~. ; . . ', .- .. ,·' . . ··,:·.·, '· '•'• AD VliRTISEMEN7.S~ - ~.~~-~··-.··--~ '::~~~~~~==~~~~~~==~~~·==~~~~==~ . .,..,._, :,-- \ .~~~~···.c··-· -~---·- ·-. . .. ~· ... CHAS .. G. ELLIS; :P1'~s't .. WALTER M.cQyEEN, Vice Pres't~ , . ·· .,· .. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBER1' J. PITKIN, $t!pt. . ·~ . • • f._'\· • . K ' .! ... . '); ', I ·\; ' . . . . .. , • • \ ' ' ' . .... ~\ ScKenectadJ ~ ', Locomoti¥e ,.x Works, < ' ' ' L(}eomotives-of Standard Design for all Clas~es of. Service, I 4 ,.. f ) · f' · ·1 · d' b· · u ·1 d·. c· 1 · • or · l'Otn t eBtgus < urnts te , · ·. y ~troa · · ompan1es. '·' ' 1a:ae. 'f.:' •· ' ' FLANNEL S.11IRT8 attd • ,. • ... • • . l ,· ' .-· .~ . ALSO FOR TUE ' ~ ... '' IDEAL \· $2.50 REf:AIL · ·: · . FANCT FLANNEL SHIRTS .. . . - . ' ~ MADE ONLY .BY Tl!E' . ' . · · · I . - ·. ~· . ' ' '~ ' ·, '• ·, ' . ' . ·:· ·; '·. 1~• ,._,:~~~~:;.AttttE~ B~o~AW ffiAN~flG. @0., - 1 -~··•tLt-iWHJiu \''J; OTHER jM STYU~:s. . NE~BURGH, N. Y. oTHERSTYI..·ESl..ACEP. · ·· · · . ' . . ' . ' ' . ' . \ . · .·.·,s·····.·•.:•£ .. ·· ...•. ~. t<•: :mat ~.: •. ·. . TH ..... ,Aw,Rtrl·NUMBERS~·~· ~·4 t~·\ \'\', . .,·.1l, .. ,,~••·••\'~·~fft · J . . . . AND 'HIS entER SWI:ES ...-r~ .. · ·- nAU.DEA;l-R$1iiROIJG~ •••. ·~Bit·lll: . ~ • ' f' ... ~ ,,_ .. L,• \\' ....... . ,' . ' . '~ ... ':' ~ :. ' . : .. :· ' ' ' . ~ :' .. '• ' . . ,. ' ~ . ·.'· ... : 't~,' -. ''

I { ' . \'- .· ::: ::::::::=====---=-:::::::.-:-::. =-- = -- -:~- ___ ·- __ · =-====:--====::==:::::~::::=-::==~=========~================ ---- -------------~--- . AD TIER T JSEMENT.S. EDWARD ELLIS,, Treas! CHA.S. G. ELLIS, Pres't. WALTER McQ!JEEN, Vice Pres't. .,..__ AL:BERT J. PITK[N, S.llpt . . ... 1- •·• ·-~ t • Schenectady X.· Locomotive x Works, SCHENE-~CTAD·Y, N. Y. Locomotives. of Standard Design fo1· all Classes of Service, or from ;Jesigns furnished by Railroad Companies. 1S4S. lSSS. t -ASK RE.1,AlLERS- FOR ' ~ ~~~,.I. ' A ~·,. .C'~. ' TRADE THE 1lili~.W .fi-.r;lcahllfMj MARK. qr.,-·= -· . FLANNEL SHIRTS and OUTING GOODS. ALSO FOR THE \IDEAL\ $2.50 RETAIL FANCT FLANNEL SHIRTS. MADE ONLY BY THE ;tHE !R: .. E 8 ··.AL·IcAKBL.cEo'AFTL.ANNEL B· _ r.>QVA. W mAN· .'aG. r.::t.o., ·- ·. • \ • t ~ P \!eJ 't\\1. \tti.UAII.AR IIEL lllf.fJ; OTI-IER -~ STYLES. N.EWBU·. ·RGt..:I, N. Y. ~ .i.~ OTHER STYLES LACED. EPH CILL~TT'S STEEL · PENS. ,___.,., ,. 1HE FAYGRm NUMBEf.!S, 303~404~ 604,851, AND ·H1Scmt!E..\'t 51YIES SOLD IIY ALL DEALERS THROlJGHOUT 111EWOR .. ~ ... ·. ,. ·' '• '.\ '~ .. 1. ·.' ! ' I . ·,; • ·~ ~~t ' :.1'! .· l.' • ',t'~ . . ' ~ ' . ~(' .. -·- -- ~ ..... -. .... - .-_,.L.:-'~.\

' .... f •· :; . : ' .. 1- ~ ', • . ~. :· . ·' · .. : '.·· '.- . · .. _\. '. .. : ·• .' · .. , ~: . ' •·. 'l .. ;· .. ,; ···: ,• . .. ' ''t· '• . , ··' '· I ' . '' > :.··: .. ; . . : ·~ .. ' :·· . -~ ·' . '·,\ . ~' . . ·,' ' ' ' : . ' . . ,, .. •. ;,, . . '·'· . ' . . ' - :' : .. 1 ' •. '. ··. ,.· .. ' ' ... .. ,.'! !, ,; •' .. · t' I :· ,·, .,., ' :· ... . '. '• ', ' .~ : )• I ' '.,·· f,'' -, ,·· '. ' ' . I ' :~~- ' ' 'I, . ' ~ f ' • ACID PHOSPHATE_ . . . . .. . . t, . ' ' P:re,pared according to· the dfrections. of Prof. E·: N. Horsford. ; . ·, : .. \' ' .. ,-· ':,.:: .. :···:'· ~. ', . . . ~~ . >.~· ....... .' . . - . . ~~ .; ( <: ·:~·~:~· ,._·r;·. Espoo,ially Retommended fer Dyspepsia,lenoosntss,Exhansti~n, R~ada~he, Tired Brain, , · ·· .;.~lld all Diseases arising from Indigestion and Nerve Exhaustion .. .t' I ,'- ;,'\ ' ' ~ '. . ' ' . ' · .. This is not a compounded \patent medicine,'' hut a preparation of the phosphate:s aticl. ::. p:.llf?Sphoric acid in the form required by the system.. . '!( It aids digestion without injury, and is a ben.efi:cial food and tonic for the brain and :;:: . nerves. It makes a delicious drink with water and sugar only, and agrees with such stimulants as are necessary to take. Descriptive pa1nphlet free. l{UMFO.Rl) CH.ENIICAL WORKS, Providence, R. I. :Se\.?\7\~re o:f Su\'k;>stit1=L tes a.::o.,CL · :CJ.\r.l.ita.tions. · CAUTION-Be sure the word \Borsford's\ is printed .on the }'abel. All otpers a1·e spuriou,s. Nevet sold in bulk. E. W. VINE. . ' - ' •.• v: -1 . .. . gYMNA%1UM UNIFORM~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . , ASK FOR TiiE l•'AMOUS ~ANCHOR ·:· BRAND tJ:~ COLLARS, CUFFS AND SHIRTS. They Will Outwear two Ordinary Colla1·s. .AllFasltz'onable Styles. For Sale Everywhere. 30SZPlt Mel')O:NOtTGR, 39 North Pearl St., Albany, N. Y., .• and 744 Br()auway, It Y. City, DEALEQ. IN N·ew and Second Hand Books. The largest stock of books in.. the state outsiqe of New York ci~y, com- prisirt~ Ameri9an~r,.:H~s:~<;>ry, Biography, Medicine,, Theology, andGen- er~l Literature. NEW BOO:KS ordered at large dtscoun~~ &\'S;pec:~&l 3ates to Stua.•=..-t•. TI .a,._uT- .;' c:t fifl(41 . 10' i. \.. ' ·sHIRTS, . . .. . . -~ . ~· . . . ~ ·, . ; - ,' •,, SWEATERS,· STOCKINGS, .g.c • . · .... ... ·\\.· ..... · ' j '.· . . :' . . A FULL LINE OF . EXERCISING HUNTING & FISFJJNG TA.Ci(£$, .. I GREEN STREET' I . ','· ·.· ' , i ,, ' '! '\- I ,I.' ': .... ;··/'\ ' .,

