I· Volume XU l. · Null)ber 3. DECEMBER, ~s·se. ~THS~~c~ ..., 0 ., a r a JF ........ ~ SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ----------------~--------~---- OO~TEN\\'TS. EDITORIAL- Union College Men Unite, THE CoNCORDIENSIS Prize, LITERARY- .,. 33 The Lottery in College Edification, 41 44 44 45 46 Old Union Half a Century Ago, COLLEGE NEWS- Ridgefield vs. Union, - R. P. I., a---.-Union Io, Lecture by Lieut. Hollis, - Freshman \Set Up,\ • American Protective Tariff League-Prize Essay Proposal for r8go, Death of Mr. Whiting, At Elmira, LOCALS, - 3 5 PERSONALS, INTER-COLLEGIATE NEWS, 38 NEC:ROLOGY- 38 Jeremiah Green, 38 Judge David P. Whedon, 38 G. Lansing Oathout, BOETRY- 39 The Girl I Love, 39 The Lock of Hair, 39.

1 I I· I ! ! I I ; ; ~ ' ' r I i I .I ~\ i t I ' j I I ! I ! I ; -j i i l i ' ' . ., -- UNION UNIVERSITY - HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL.D., President UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1. CLA.BsrcAL CouBsE'-'T!le Class!oai Course is tile usual baccalaureate course of American colleges. Students may be\Permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. SCIENTIFic CouusE-In tile Scie:nti.tie Course tile modern langqages are Sl:lbstituted for the ancieitt, and tl:!e amounJ;:of mathe- matical and English studies is increased. 3. SoRooL o., CIVIL ENGIN)!:EBING--'The student in this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed In the coilrse)'of instruction, In Its collection of models, instruments aud books, the accum1>lation of many years by the late Professor Glllespie, and also in unusual facilities for acquiring a practical knowledge of ·instrumental field work. 4. EcLEcrro CoUBs:e-An Ecle<>tioCourse, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from tile preceding courses, may be tate:n by any mae Who, upon examlnatiou, is foud qilalitied to pursue it. On tile completion of this a certificate of attainment will be .given . • There are also special courses in .A.nalytioai Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natura.! History. For catalogues or fOr special information address HENRY WHITEHO!RNE, Dean of the Faculty, Schenectady, N. Y. D:E?PARTMENT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE-Term commences first Tuesday In September and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. EKPENSEs-Matric1>1ation fee, $5; term fee, $100; perpetual ticket, $50; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N .. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LA,V. THE ALBANY LAw SCHOOL~The course of instruction consists of three terms; tile :first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third Ma:rch 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State is open to students; the General Terms of the .Supreme Court of tile Third l).epartment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each year, in advance, For information address Prof. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany, N. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, and is devoted es.Pecially to Astronomy and Meteorology. Ji'or infor- mation address Prof. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ALB.A.NY, N. Y.-For information apply to · Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D. ' ' '· • r i I f '! .. . i l t· ·~: ··~ ~ i \l f

•' ·· ... ··.:::.: .. :.:...'·' ' ' . ~ ' ,. ~~ : ~: .·, •. ·• · . .' ,· . ' - ·;, . '.;.:·,.I· ... _:· ' ; : ~. . ''· :\\-. ~ ,. '- . ; : ~-. , I ' -'. 'r_;· .. :- -:_ . ; '-: ·; ,, .·.· \. ' . ·-·. ' '• ,., ... '·. r '' ·' ..... t:- -' .,-1 f . '. ·: ',. . . ~-· ' . . ~- . ,_-.\ ' ,. . - ·~ - .} . -.·, '' ' . ~.' ·:( I.· ,·;· ' ..,,_ '. ,·_: ·•. f'. . ~-?-- . . \\~ .. ~ ' \ : . .. ~·· ·,· . ' .~·,- . '.., \' .·/' •, .. , ;. ' ... :•. ·:_ ;.:' '· ,,~,. .· '· .. .. ,·. t ,. ,\ .. . \,1, I< · . ....:·.:. l!A:.R:RISON E. WEBSTER, · Lt. D., President . ' · .. ·,, ····\'' ' .. ,, ' ,. ' . . . .. : ::~_ .. ~.' ., : . ·, . .. , ..... ,;:· . . - .. , ........ -- ..... . :· _-:··., • , .. ,._·r,, ,, .. \ _ .. · · .... ·. /·: ... UNION.COLLEGE. SCHENECTADY. N Y .' .·, I -,, '• ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' . ' ' ' ' ' ' . . ··': • ..... .' ,'I> . \\ - . .. . . . ~--- . \~ .~ . ' t. O...sS!oAL OouBsE'--Tbe ClassiQllil C!ollnle I• tbe USUa,l ba<l!lalalU:<lllte ·COU!'!Ie of Aw~ficil!I CQlleges. Stli<lents ~Y belpi;\'lllittM: · te pursue _additional studies in either Of the otb.e:r oo~.- · . . 2.. SCil!:NTili'W Cl:ra:as,_..ln the SCientiftc Course the ino<fern langna:ges \\\ suQstit'Q.ted tor U.e al)<)ieltt; and tbe 1\!D.Qttntot Jlla,the· · ··. lll!!otleal and EQgll$h studies 1s fuo>ease<t · j • · ' • · ll. Solloot o:r Crvn:. lilNG-:R!>fG:.,.TM stud~11t in till$ deparl;IQeQt. enjoys adVantages llOWhe:te SlirPil$Sed Ia ·tb<) ·OI>~Bl· of · fustltuctlon, ln its col!eotlon ~>f models, instl'liments and boob, the aecwnulation. of man.;Y yeli.l;S •bY the late PrOfessor GillWlPie 0 an(~; · \ aJso in unusual f~tellities for :wquirlQg a practical !!:nowl~dge. oflil.Stru.wentallleld work .. · .._ 4. ;&otEotto CO'!JRSE-.An Eoiecttc Celli'Se, oonsil!tilig of studies selected at I:>IeaslUe frol!l the. pre~ couraes,l!lla:Vbe tWtan .bY ally bne Who, upon exOJ!tinatton, is foll!ld ,Qi1Mifi1ld to pursue it. On the \'D>Pleti<>n of this a certitioate, of atta>nment, Will he given.. • '£'here are a!SQ special ooutSes in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and NaturaUllstliry. · For Cl!ola,l~es <>i' for spilo).aJ illf<;l~ati<m add11ess HENllt 'WIU'I'EHO:{tNE, De3n of the Faculty; Schenectaa,;y, N. 'Y~ ·' ,1' • . _•;.' J ' ·.--·· ' . ' -r ; . . : . ·:_ .............. \\\ ... :- ~-.:-.. . ' . ·' 1,'.·,:.:·~--: .... ·.: ·.' .. D~PARTMENT OF MEDICINE . .A.i.BANY l!:Jmro,A:~; COLIJIGl!'-Terl!ll OO!Dm®oes first Tuesday fu S!>p;t6mber and contlnnes ¢1v<iiity W\lel,s. The Plan of in.strnotlen <JomJ>fues clinical teaching with lectures.. Special o}lPQrtunities for the study. pf C4eJitlstry and of lTaetlcM Anatom.y. ~sEs-Matrlculati\>n fee, $5; term fee, $100; perpetnal ticket, $511; grl!dlliltlon fee, $25; disseotl:lt¢ fee, $5; fee :tQt-la!Joratoey course, $10; histological Qourse, $18~ For circu:lars address · · · WILLIS G. TUCKER, 1L D.., R~gistrar, .A.1b~ny, :N. Y. . ·.~ DEPAR'FMENT .. OF LA\V . Tim ALBANY LAw Soxoou.--The course of in.struotl<>n co!!sists of three tenns; the first coml!len<)iJJg September 5, tile second November 28, 11ll<l the ihlrd M...;,h 6; each tern:> conslsting of 12 weeks. The :0v!Oi>tages for th\> study of law at Albany are as great:·_ as can. be found &nyWhere. The laW library of tbe State ,is <>Pen W students; the •Gen.eeal Te\'llls of the Supreme Oolllt of the ~ Qepartment, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition,.-$50 each .term, in advance; $130 each ye~r, in advance; :For information address . Prof~ HORACE E. SMLTH,. LL.D.; Albany, N. ·¥. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY . . -:' - .. '\ ' ,f-·. ' . . '~ .·,, ._ ....... .• ! . .•, ,!: '• ' ·. ~ ' . ' Tills Department of the· nnlversity is located at Albany, and is devoted <li!P<ioially te .Astronomy an.d Mllteorology; j!'or lnf<>t- mation address ' \: . ·- -·. Prof. LEWIS :SQSS, Albany; N. Y. '' ALBANY COLLEGE OJ}'PHARMACY. AL:sAn, N. Y.-For information apply to' Prof. WlLLlS G. ~UCtmR, M. D. ,·, •• •'< . ...-· .,, . ' ... -':._·,. . ·.-·. -- •' ·, ' .. ,_ i-- ' .. - : - . ' '\ . ' ~- ..· ·: ,, i,·.,. ,· '. ~. • •I '• ' ~ ,I .,. . . ' ·, ... ·,' ;_ .. _,· .. ,_. -:-:

\ ' '· '! ADVERTISEMENTS. C IGARETTE smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will :find THIS B.RAND superior to all others. The Rkhmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicatdy flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf gro1vn in Virg1oia. This is th(' Old and Original Brand of Straight- Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year r875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm nam·e as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMOND, VA. ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. F-inest in the C £ty. 8 & IO S. PEARL STREET, Ojp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T .A.:I:..a:BC>T :J 505 STA.'Y'E STR.EE T. KLEEMANN, ·. CATERER & CONFECTI:ONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHEN.EC'J'A.D Y, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished 011 short notice and at reasonable prices. :::rMI: AD:EJ ':::0 O::S:::D:S::e_ Fmuy fees, Cream, 'Jelli'es, Charlotte de Russe, .Nt!3ajolitan Creams, Romatt Ptmch, Btscuit Glace, Plu.m Pudding Glace, Tutti Frutti a?tcl Fancy Oratzge attd Nougat Pyrantz'ds z'n all styles~ Chicken and Lobster Salads, Bfmed Turkey, Capon attd Lartled Game, Oyster Patties, etc., etc. TABLE SETTING, FRATERNITY DINNERS A.N D SUPPERS A SPECIALTY. ''Moral: Insure £n the H. F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods House, 3Ir STATE STREET, Cor. !VALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

·: ·, '·. :: ~ ·., .- ' '··~- ,. ADVER'TISJJ}MENTS. C IGARETTE smokers \Vho are wili;ing to pay a little rnore than the pdce :charged £or tht:e ordi;n- ary trade cigarette~ will find THIS BRAND superior to all others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. r Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most dtdicately flav·ored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the : Old and Original Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875. Beware of imitations and observe that the finn name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER,. Manufacturers, RICHM:OND, VA. ARNOLD'S BILLIARD :PARLORS. F£nest £n the C£ty. 8 & IO S. PEARL STREET, Opp. Glove Hotel, ALBANY;, N. Y .. w HI':~ ~~U .~ A~T PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME '1'0 T .A.L:Bc:>T, .505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, ... ' CATERER & CO·NFECTIONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals fur:nish€d on sho1·t notiee and at reasonable prices. . ::tv.:E:A:O::El ~0 O~:OEE,_ Fmzcy Ices, Cream, Yelli'es, Cltarlatte de Rtt.sse, Neafolila?tCreams, Roma?t PU1tck, Bt'scult Glace, Plum Pt~daitz~ Glace, Tutti Frutti and Fancy Orang-e and Nougat Pyrantlds in all styles, Cki'c.ken mzd Lobster Salads, Boned Turkey, Cafon and Larded Game, Oyster Patties, etc., etc. TABLE SETT:INO, FRATERNITY DIN I.ERS AN,D &.UPPERS A SPECIALTl. ''Moral~· Insure £n the 7~A VELERS.'' H . F. SM[TH'S • ---NEW--- ~ONE- PRICE Cloth'in;g and Men's Furnishing Goods House, .Jri STATE STREET, Cor. \/VALL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Ta:ilc:>r-M:ade Clothing Equal to Custom Work. Headquarter-s :t:or Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

·ADVERTISEMENTS. .. . ,. . COLLE~GE BOOKS, . ' Dra'wing Papers, Pencils and fn-st1-uments. A!! ,Rrades of Station-. ery. Orde1's for sp.ecial books not in stock filled promptly at the lowest prices. HULBERT, 23'.5 Sta:te St , (below the canal bridge,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. R OEERT T'. MOIR, (Successor to John Gilmour,) H ENRY A. KERSTE, Ph. G., DEALER IN (®) lPlJarntarist. ® 333 State and I50 Centre Street, A FINE LINE OF SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IJnported and Dom,estic Cigars and Cigarettes. Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlan.- tic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK. RESTAURANT IN THE Y. M. C. A. BUILDING, UNION S':tREET PHARMACY, Cor. Union and Yates Sts., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. GLOBE HOTEL, ]. A. HoucK, Proprietor. now under the direction of the Association. Rooms · especially reserved for Ladies. Cor. State and Pearl Sts., Open fro?JZ 7 A. M. to zo P. M. ALBANY, N. Y. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner, 25c. Rooms. Prices Moderate. Pleasant ' BOSTON ONE-PRICE ClOTHING HOUSE, 320 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur. nishing Goods. Terms: $2.00 per day. B ARHYTE & BIRCH, WHOLESALE .AND RETAIL DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD, Lz'1ne, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. ·· 306, 308 and 310 UNION STREET, l SCI£ENECTAD y N. y 209 and 211 DocK STREET, ~ ' • • --GO TO-- L. T. CLUTE'S, 2 2 7 State Street, FOR THE CORRECT STYLES IN Also a .full line of Trunks, Bags, Glo7Jes, [lmbrel- las, &c., &c. Agent for DUNLAP CELEBRATED HAT. J • H. DEVINE, Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot- Wear Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies' Fine Foot- Wear. DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N.Y. Mail orders promptly attendea to. ! '

'' '• . ' ' {. HE~ ONCORDIENSIS VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER, 1889 No. 3 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED MONTHL \Y BY STUDENTS OF ·uNION 'COLLEGE. BOARD OF ED.ITORS.· F. E. HAWKEs, 'go; , --·------, go, B. C. LITTLE, 'gr, W. A. McDoNALD, 'gr, HOMER B. WIL~IAMS, '92, .~ L. H. CARRIS,. 93, \ H. T. MosHER, 'go, J. W. FERGUSON, 'gr, } G. F. MosHER, '92, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF •. AssociATEs •. - LITERARY EniTOR. AssiSTANTs. · BUSINESS EDITOR. ASSISTANTS. . . E. B. BAKER, 'go, TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, GILLESPIE CLUB EDITOR •• $I. 50 PER YEAR, IN AifVANCE. 20 CENTS. We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of .inter- est and information concerning Alumni. Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Man- a_ger. . Subscribers not receiving papers :promptly will kilildly notify Business Manager. . All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNOORDIEN- Sis, Schenectady, N.Y. · Entered at the Post-office at Scl1miectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. BRANDOW PRINTING COMPANY, ALBANY, N.Y. --·---------------------------------- The Concordiensis Prize. \Let me write the songs of a nation, and I care not who makes its laws.\ Whatever the relative efficacy in the economy of nations of the functions of . the legislator and the minstrel, few college 1nen of to-day will deny the ilnportance of college song, in contributing to college life , one of its most enjoyable elements, and in awakening in the graduate's heart the brightest memories of by-gone days. Union is rich in her heritage of song, and in the fame of her song writers. Two men, at least, have gone out frorn her halls whose names are fan1iliar, one · throughout the world, and the other wherever a Union man has found an abiding :place, and y-et the reputation .of each inheres solely in the writing of a single, but immortal song. One wrote \Ho1ne .Sweet Home,\ the other., the '' Song to Old Union,'' that matchless hy1nn whose inspiring notes quicken the pulses of the Union graduate as long as the heart continues to beat. Hardly less esteemed is the name of Truman Weed, who first gathered and arranged in permanent form the scattered songs and music of old Union by publishing his admirable collection, '' Carmina Concor- dia.\ The times are ripe for another Fitzhugh Ludlow and another Truman Weed. It is fifteen years since the Oarmina was published, and in that period little that is new or valuable has been added to the catalogue of Union '.s songs. Even the habitual singing of the old songs has been of late years sadly neglected, and the recent requisition on us by the New York Alumni Association for a glee club and some new songs awoke us to the fact of our 1nusical delinql-lencies. This is not as it should be. The stock of good college songs should be constantly increasing. · We ought to have a large and enthusiastic glee club in constant practice, not only by its organization promoting the general college interests, but prepared to give a series of public concerts for the benefit of the athletic associations. We should hear the rollicking songs of Union more frequently on the ca1npus, ·on the streets, on the terrace, in the dormitories. More than all, we want sorne new songs, and a new edition of '' Oarmina Concor- dia.\ In order to promote these objects, the 00NCORDIEN~IE? :t;l9W offers a :prize of $2!)

34 THE CONOORDIENSIS. for the best original Union College song • . Tam wemarkable game played Thanks\ submitted to it by a Union undergraduate • giving at Elmira closes the foot· ball sea- before the 1st day of March, 1890. ' son for us;. and the team, manager and The following are the conditions of the ·• interested ones are to be heartily congrat- award: ulated upon the work done during the 1. At least ten productions must be , latter part of the season. Union has offered in the competition. . demonstrated that with proper attention 2. Each production shall be not less than · · she can play good foot-ball, and no reason 12, nor more than 24 lines in length, ex- exists why we should not have, next elusive of the chorus, if one. · season, a team that, in the language of 3. The songs must breathe the spirit of . the Rochester trainer, can compete with old Onion, that is, they mllst be so far Cornell and Columbia. We urge upon the unique or local in sentiment as to render · college the advisability of forming an them inappropriate for any o tber college. inter-collegiate league, and have little 4. Both words and music may De original, doubt that Rochester, R. P. I., and Syra- or the words alone he original, and be cuse would gladly enter. adapted to some familiar air. * * 5. Each song shall be sign eel by a ficti- * tious na1ne, and be acom,paoied by a THE OONCORDIENSIS this month is en- sealed envelope containing tl1e true name larged four pages, and even with th:is of the writer. increase 1nuch valuable matter is crowded 6. All songs submitted shan become the , out. This is only another indication of property of the OONCORDIENSIS, or of the the revival of interest in, and the growth person the editors shaH intrust with the ·· of affairs at Union. And with this publication of a new song book. ' growth this paper will endeavor to keep On March 1, 1890, if the requisite ·• pace, feeling that the increased effort and number of productions shall bave been · expense will be appreciated by our pa- submitted, the editors will exan1ine them, •· .trons. The delay in the issue of the and award the prize by a 1najori~ty vote of .• nun1ber is caused by the late date of the the editors. The envelope accompanying · New York Alumni banquet; but we hope the successful song will then be opened we are in season to wish most heartily for and the prize paid the writer_, and the faculty, alu.mni and students the merriest song itself, with the true name of its · of Christmas times. author attached, will be printed in the * * * March number of the 00NCORDIENSIS. In making the award, coi±sideration will be taken of poetic n1erit, rbythrn and adaptability to the music accompanying the song, or the air selected, and also of the· character of the sentiment expressed in the verses. . Now let us have a lively competition and see what 111usical and poetic talent there is still lurking iuside Union.'s ''gray old \valls \ to-day. We aTe authorized to offer this prize by one of the first editors of the OoNCOR- . DIENSIS. IT is claimed by one of the best foot- ball players in the state that the decision by which Union was prevented from scoring Briggs' touch-down at El~ira shovved a lamentable ignorance of the gan1e. Had this been allowed the score would have been 4 to 0 anyway, and as the touch-down was directly behind the goal, a goal would undoubtedly have been · kicked, and Union would have won by 6 to 0. Were we ''faked\ out of the game?

.. l ,· I THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. 35 THE annual dinner of the New York: friendly converse an the nigh.t.\ And City Union College Alun1ni Association •• with these win mingle scenes and faces was held D:ee. 9, at Delmonico's. The asso- · with which the only joy that can be asso- ciation has over 450 me1nbers, and is not • ciated is that of repentance and pardon surpassed by any in the country, not even through infinite mercy. ''The child js by those of Yale and Harvard. It was a •. father of the man,\ and the shadows of n1agnificent celebration. When such men · evil begin to gather and darken even when as President W <:pbster, ''Eli\ Perkins, Ed- · ''life itse~,f is one gay festival\ in the ward Bella·my and \!Varner Miller gather bright college days. And marshaling around the boards one can be certain of a . itself to briltg up the rea1\-guard of such 4 ' feast of reason'' as bountiful as the re1niniscences, is the proper work of col- more substantial one provided by Delmon- • lege life-the acquiring of knowledge, ieo. And it was so this time. A full · which Bishop Butler pronounces as mol'·e account, from the New York Tribune, is pleasant than the acquisition of it, ever given elsewhere. ·. leading on step by step to new and larger * * 7:- gains, each helping the other in unex- IN this nurn ber we give the first half of pected ways and opening new paths to an exceedingly interesting article entitled the explorer; and the intercourse vv~ith ''Union Half a Century Ago.\ It is master-minds, and learning from theiT written by the Rev. Dr. Maunsell Van wisdom, k110vvledge and experience, in Rensselaer,. '38, ex-president of DeVeaux . spite of ourselves, it may be, the truth of College and Hobart College. The article · Will~an1 of Wykeham's maxim, \Man- will be co1npleted in our next nu1nber. ners n1aketh man.\ -x- * -x- College life fifty years ago was not WE have received from Prof. Truax, a essentially different from what it is now, n1ember of the Holland Society, an elabo- however changed its details may have rate memorial of the late Hooper C. Van becon1e. Then Saratoga was the northern Vorst, prepared by the society. We regret terminus of the n1odest railroad system exceedingly our inability to publish it on of New York. The traveler westward account of lack of space. fro1n Schenectady must go by stage~ cross- PURCHASE OF OUR ADVERTISERS. ing the river on the old bridge, an in- describable structure of n1assive timber arches describing ''the line of beauty and of grace,\ eovered with a succession of \OLD UNION\ A HALb'-CENTURY AGO. irregular roofs giving an air of great an- When I consented to write ''an article · tiquity; or l)y canal packet n1aking its descriptive of college life in your {my) four miles an hourJ day and night. The day, and containing reminiscences of men trip to Albany in winter took two hours then in college who are now known,,; I by the coach-cars drawn by horses on little imagined what the task was which '·The ~1 ohaw k and Hudson Rail Road.\ I had undeetaken. For what. does it in~ · You were dTawn up an incline plane at volve? The recollection of happy days Schenectady and sent down on another at forever flo\vn of bright faces and joyous . Albany, where you were landed in \the hearts foreveT stilled, of pleasant and pasture,;, at a sufficient distance from the sacred friendships engulfed in '' death's Capitol to 'give abundant exercise in cold sullen wave,\ of '~the club and reaching it, Morse had not utilized the

36 THE CON·CORDIENSIS'. wonderful discoveries of J osepl1 Henry in . electro-1nagnetisn1, and news traveled · slowly. It took t\vo days for the tidings .· of the great fire in New York jn 1835 to . reach Schenectady, and the postage on • letters from there on a single sheet, with- • out an envelope, ~ras 18£ cents,. [he U. S. • appropriating the extra quarter, as there · were no stamps; an envelope would have made it double I Think of that, ye col- . lege swains as you affix the head of the . father of his country upon the scented envelope that encloses the billet doux which is expected, it may be, on the . shores of the Mississippi or on ·the coast of the Pacific, and be grateful. that encounter, the fiftieth anniversary of his rectorship in his first and only church; the steadfastness of his youth having borne its fruit in unflinching :fidel- ity in his sacred calling. Except at the west college we had noth- ing to boast of in the way of recitation and lecture rooms. The grand plan for buildings had stopped with the colo11ades, in which were the only comfortable rooms for the classes. To make up the defi- ciency we were required to mount to the third story over the residence of a pro- fessor, whose family was subjected three tin1es a day to the tran1p of a hundred or The overflow of students bad led to the re-purchase of the old college building by . the canal, in which were lodged the . fresh1nen and half of the sopbon1ores .. One consequence of this was that the upper college n1en knew very little .of the west collegers, and· thought stiU less of the1n, so that in going into town in a body . and n1eeting the others going up to their meals, they filled the two lines of :flag- stones that lead fTon1 the hill, tu.Tning the · ascending cro·wd into the gutter. After bearing this for son1e tiine the west-end- ers took counsel and devised an effectual remedy. Placing at their head a stalwart son. of Maine, they closed up as the enemy bore down on them headed by a gallant . southron, brave as a lion but lignter by several avoirdupois than the sturdy chain- pion whom he encountered. The result need not be detailed. They met and they parted like the French and English officers whon1 Napier describes as marching side by side to Salamanca with only a brook between the arn1ies, and saluting one 'another ''like gallant gentlemen who more feet unshod with Mercury's wings, with a not unfrequent interlude of stamp- ing or sera ping given with a will. It was remarkable how Inany seniors and jun- iors could be stowed away in those two dens separated by a thin partition in which was a sliding door pushed back for prayers or the soleu1n occasions when we required a \ talk\ fro·m our venerable Prex to reprove us for some escapade or knew no fear and felt no 1nalice.\ Thenceforth the west collegers had a ''right of way.\ I have just had the pleasure of celebrating, with the hero of to ren1ind us of our duty. These, sooth to say, did not co1ne often, but when they did they never failed to hit the 1nark. But whatever the acconHnodations n1ay have been it was a n1an's own fault if he did not find \light and sweetness \ there in the. good and solid instruction given and in the way in which it was imparted. No text-books were allowed in the roo1n, except in classics, and each man was required to take up the subject whete it had been left o:f£ without any prompting; while favoritism was unknown,-I do not ren1ember to have heard any complaint of it by a student, which I consider very rernarkable when I recall some subse- quent experiences of my own .. I do not know the present customs, but then Saturday mornings, after first recita- tion, were given up to the literary socie- ties, the Philomathean, the Adelphic, and

' ' i . - .. ! ' I, ~ ', I 'rHE CONOORDIENSIS. 37 the Delphian Institute. There had always.: cordice cons·titutoo Novi Eboraci Repub- been a keen rivalry between them in ,get- : l~ca faciunt,\ and his consequent reception ting the best men and making the most ) as a member; signed by the president and show at Con1mencement, a society oration •. :secretary, with . Real and ribbon affixed~ being one of the honors spal}ed by the : with due formality. I have also :a very -reforming hand of Dr. Nott. ·~he Insti-- · handsome oval plate_d silver badge with tute, although the youngest, looked down ) scalloped edge, ·which was attached to a with serene self-complacency, not to say · broad ribbon and worn on the breast. contempt, upon her elder sisters, thus : Along the sides, within a graceful wreath, reversing the Cinderella way;. but they · are the words in Greek letters, ~ ~ Koinonia survived it, I believe. There we met to (:1l194) Philomathon.\ In the center is a read essays and to debate, to plot and · scroll surmounted by what seems to be a counterplot, to criticise and to discuss bouquet and on it the words '~ Virtus, Sci- r~forms in society and politics which our e1!ttia, et Amicitia.\ Underneath are the elders had forgotten, and, in general, to irdtials of the owner in another Wieeath. act on our mimic stage the great dran1a • These would not have been so carefully which the busy world outside of us was p±>€served if they had been regarded as performing in reality. It was a study to mere Laubles. see how early the politician developed in 1 cannot tell why it was, but '• hazing\ the youth in his teens, and how sldllfully io its modern forn1 was ~'more honored he could make his combinations, manage. in the breach than in the observance;\ his friends and outwit his enemies. Very· the ''cane rush\ was unknown; fresh- pleasant is the recollection of those meet- · nJen could wear any headgear that suited ings, when I recall the dignity of Archi- their taste or fancy. It was part of the bald Reid in the chair, and his quiet ''unwritten law\ that advancement to utterances of cheerful encouragen1ent the hill carried with it an abstention from and good Scotch common sense, and the the pranks and frivolities of those left eloquence of John K. Porter, wao gave behind at west college ; not that it al- evidence, even at that early day and on w~ys produced that effect, by any means, that small arena, of what he was to be- -'' Coolum non animun Inatant\ was come in after days. These weue by no the Horatian motto of not a few restless means all; they come back to me as spirits. In athletics we have been far specin1ens by no n1eans rare. But the sur·passed by our successors. In spite of glories of the literaries were waning un- th(} inviting waters of the Mohawk, once der the growing influence of the Greek alive with the swift canoes of Indians letter societies. In the earlier days the and traders, the silence was unbroken by greatest importance was attached to be- rival crews struggling for victory, and longing to them, and they conducted their awakening the applause of the eager affairs with corresponding ceren1!ony. I sp€ctators. Football was only read of in have before me a parchment eighty years boo-ks about English school life. The old containing a handsome and· well-en- ''National garne\ was undeveloped and graved certificate in regulation Latin its~' precious jewel\ had not yet appeared announcing that '' Amor culturaque Vir- in the dark setting of the campus. Our tutis, Scientire et Amicitim A. J3. idon- eaTly annals record no achievements of a eum ad honores et omnia p.ri vilegia belted nine contending for the name and I Societatis Philom~thon in Qollegio Oon- fan:te of Qld 1) nion on the ''diamond

38 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ----~------. -- --- -- ~ --- ------~----- field,\ eager\ for victory, but consoled in defeat by D~an Stanley's Tennysonian distich, \'Tis better to have fought and lost Than never to have fought at all.\ As for cest he tics, in their n1odern ac- ceptation, wealth and foreign travel had not yet a wakened the desire for the1n and 1ve were content to enjoy the varied beau- .ties of natuee, of which none a1~e more delightful than the view of the Mohawk valley from the college plateau, and the n1agnificent sunsets; and the exquisite garden of Professor Jackson was '' a · 1ihing of beauty, and a joy foreveT.\ PATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. Ridgefield vs. Union. Lecture by Lieut. Hollis. Thursday evening, Decetnber 5th, Lieut. Hollis, of the U. S. Navy, lectured to the Gillespie Club on the construction, arms, and arn1ors of 1nodern .Men of War, Mr. Hollis is thoroughly fan1iliar with his sub- ject and for an hour and a half enter- tained those present with facts about and critical views of the sa1ne. With com- mendable tact the speaker interwove his experiences with the subject 1natter thereby enhancing the interest. Freshman \ Set Up.\ · The freslunan class held its ''officers set up \ at DeLong's, on Friday evening, N oven1 ber 22d. 1 1 he affair pas~ed off very pleasantly and all report a good tilne. Upon returning to the hill the class found the furniture in their roon1s a little out of order, the result of a desire of the soph- mores to give the freshmen a double \set up_, The following are the toasts which weTe offered: The return game with Ridgefield was played on our can1pus and in a pouring rain. Owing to the weather only one three-quarters was played, and in that Ridgefield scored tvvo toueh-downs fron1 which she kicked goals. Her points were all made in the first eight minutes. After tl1is our tea1n played very sharply and kept the ball in their opponents' territory most of the tinae. Score 12-0, in favor of Ridgefield. Lord, the toast 1naster, in his opening address, spoke of the class of '93; McAl- pine, ., rrhe Future of the Class;\ Dough- erty, '' W o1nan's Rights;\ Thatcher, ''Our . \President;\ Morey, ''Our College;\ Ham- ilton, '' Poetry;\ Pike •' The Ladies.\ After the toasts had been offered, the ' class sang college songs. Among the songs vvas one composed by a member of the class entitled '' To Drive dull Care Away.\ This song was dedicated to the class of '92. R. F. I., 0-Union, 10. An elegant day, an excellent tea1n, and ahout sixty 1nen fro1n R. P. I. greeted our tea1n N oven1ber 23d. In the first b alf R. P. I. n1ade a safety, scoring 2 for Union ; in the next half Van Valkenburg and Clute each made a touch-down, making the final score 10-0. The game was sharply contested but, withal, a very good-natured one, and has shown -conclu- sively that Union and R. P. I. can and vvill hereafter meet in many profitable and har1nonious athletic games. Probably the best playing of the day was done by Ginebra the R. P. I. full-back. Melville D. Landon '61 (''Eli\ Perkins) lectured at Union Hall some time since and the following 111orning lectured to the students in the chapel. His kindness was greatly appreciated. Mr. Landon will still further favor us by providing an ar- ticle for the February number of the CoN~ CORDIENSIS. .. , ·'· ' . ' ' ~

·'· ' :·.t i.·' ', '(\ THE OONOORDIENSIS. 39 American Protectiv,e 'I'ari:tf League- Prize Essay Proposal for 1890. De·ath of Mr. Whiting. NEW YoRK, October 15, 1889. The Atnerican Protective Tariff League offers to the und€Tgraduate students of senior classes of colleges and universities in the United Stat€s, a series of prizes fo1·. approved essays on the application of the . American policy of protect~on to American. shipping engaged in international com- , merce. The freshman class sustains a severe loss in the death of one of its members- Charles S. Whiting. Although Mr. Whit- ing had been in the college but a short time he had endeared himself to the hearts of all of those who had been associated with him. His death was from blood poisoning, caused by an abscess, the result of a fall in the gymnasium. Mr. Whiting was re- moved to his home in St .. Paul, Minn., a short time before his death. Competing essays not to exceed eight : thousand words} signed by so1ne other ' than the writer's name, to be sent to the .· office of the league, No. 2:3 West Tvventy- ;: Third street, New Tork ci-ty, on or before : March 1, 1890, accornpanied by the na1ne : and address of the writer and certificate .· of standing, signed by some officer of the .• college to which he belongs, in a separate · sealed envelope (no-t ;to be opened until the · successful essays have beeu detern1ined), marked by a word {)l' syrnbol correspond- ing with the signatuTe of the essay. It is desired, bot not required, that Inanuscripts be typ€-written .. Awards will be made June 1st, 1890, as follo·~vs : For the best essay, :$150. For the second bes-t, $10.0. For the third best, $50. And for other essa.ys ~ deemed especially meritorious, silver rn€dals, of original and approved design, will be awarded, with . honorable n1ention of the authors in a public notice of the awards. The league reserv€s the right to publish, at its own expense, any of the essays for which :prizes are awarded, and will print the essay receiving tb e first prize among the annual publications. The names of judg€s will be announced hereafter. Respectfully, etc., EDWARD H. AMMIDOWN, HENRY NL HOYT, President. General Secretary. On account of his death the following actioi1 was taken by the freshman class: VVHEREAS, It has pleased God to take from among us our classmate Charles S. Whiting, there- fore, be it Resolved, That the class extend their profound sympathy to the bereaved family_; Resolved, That, as a token of respect, the nlem- bers of the class ·wear a badge of mourning thirty days· R :solved, That, a copy of these resolutions be sent to the family, also inserted in the city papers and the CONCORDIENSIS. WARREN B. LIPPINCOTT, ALLEN F. WRIGHT, HENRY D. MERCHANT, For the class of '93, Union College. AT ELMIRA. A Rem:arkable Game-Neither Side Scores- Rochester Play the Weaker Game. The Union team, with about fifteen supporters, left Schenectady on the morn- ing of the 27th in a snow storm, and arrived at Elmira during the afternoon in a rain storm. This did not see1n an abnormally propitious outlook, nor did the dissatisfaction lessen, as the storm in- creased throughout the evening ; never- theless, the 1nen practiced for half an hour in the state armory on1itting, how- ever, to take the ten n~ile run advertised in the Elmira papers, and went to bed early. The rain storm vvas again up before the men in the morning and con- tinued until about ten o'clock, when the sun came out bright, and the air clear and

40 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ·cold. .A walk upon the streets showed all · the store windowsdraped i1npartiallywith · Union and Rochester colors, while every- · where was the white and blue of the A. D. K. E. ;Club-the managers of the game. ball was about eight feet from ·union's line, but it didn't stay there long, and when time was ealled the score stood 0-'0. The condition of the grounds was in some places very bad, a fact possibly in our favor. The Union team was a little heavier than Rochester's, and undoubtedly played the better game-this· was the verdict of the daily papers, the spectators and the Rochester men themselves. The entire team played remarkably, the seven men on the line seeming indeed to be a \brick-wall while it is no disparagement to the rest of the players to say that the honors of the day undoubtedly belonged to Briggs-running magnificently, block- ing firmly and tackling often and surely, The game was ·Called promptly at 2:30 .. with W. G .. Barney, Oornell'86, as re£eree, :' and 0. 0. Bidwell, Williams '86, as : umpire. Union won the toss, and fot~m- · ing the V, gained ten yard3 befo11e it · broke. On the :first •'line-up\ Briggs :. takes 'the ball and makes an elegant run • · of thirty yards, being handsomely guarded · by McQueen. Twice Van V alken bui:g : ;''gets out of the mud,'' and the ball is · within eight yards of Rochester's ~ine, but here it stops, and after four ''downs\ goes to Rochester. Comfort kicks it to the middle of the field and by sharp play- ing Rochester drops on the ball and secures it again. Now for fifteen minutes the ball alternates its residence between the two sides and neither seems to have . the advantage, when by sharp blocking Union secures the ball on four downs, and with. runs by Francisco, Stewart and Clute the ball is rapidly worked into Rochester's territory. Three desperate dives through the center by Van ·valken- burg, each time overpowers RocheBter, and as the Union supporters swing hats, ribbons and canes, and frantically etll brace each other, the ball is placed twelve . inches from Rochester's goal. But alas! an unfortunate fumble by Clute gives :the ball to Rochester on the fourth down, aud the ball is kicked back into the field. A few minutes later tin1e was called. '1he second half was a repetition of the fil'st. .At no time, save one, ·was an approach to a score 1nade. Then Briggs made a rnagni:ficen t run fron1 the middle of the field and secured a touch -down, but this was not aJlowed as '' Coons' head was off-side.\' Once in the second half the --his playing was noticeable 'from the start, and is an exa1nple of what hard and constant practice, combined with train- ing, will do. . After the game the editor of this paper sought out Mr. Winston, the Yale trainer, the Amherst trainer, ·and finally and un- approachably, the Rochester trainer, and reminded him that he had predicted in the papers a week before, the defeat of our eleven, claiming that they were already beaten and that his team should be able to cope with Cornell and OoJumbia. Mr. Winston partially denied the authorship of the statements in the Rochester paper, saying that he was always very ''careful\ what he said to reporters, and then pro- ceeded to unbosom himself of the follow- ing ''careful\ statements : \Union played the better _game.\ '' Union blocked better than Rochester, seeming to understand how.\ \The greater part of the game was played in Rochester's territory.\ ''Union ought to have won, her failing to score when close to the line was inex- cusable.\ ''Union has Inagnificent materjal.\ '' If Rochester had had Union's quarter- l f. ''

l f. . ' THE OONCORDIENSIS. 4-1 back she could easily have wotJ, as lle1· !, The Rev. Dr .. Charles D. Nott presided own quaTter got rattled.\ over the Unionists with a ponderous gavel All of which we publish because it .: made fron1. a piece of the old wagon that comes from such high authority and cer~ · hi.s grandfather, Dr. Eliphalet Nott, pres- tainly speaks well for Union. ident of tbe college for sixty-two years, PUN,.rLETS. 1 , used to ride in. r~rhis wagon was as cele- The .A. D. K. E. ciub speak llilJ.ghly of i, brated as the wonderful' \one-horse shay.\ the n1anagement of Mr. Johnson. Hi 8 [, It ran on three wheels, and ex-Gover110r consideration hi regard to expens€s being· · Hoffman once spoke of it as the '~fore­ greatly appreciated. · father of the n1odetn tricycle.\ The par- Hamilton played with a streamiTlg nose, ;· trait of Dr. Eliphalet Nott hung on the but in the language of his opposite, •· ·wall behind the chairn1an. Directly op- '' played an awfully wicked gatne.\ ' posite, draped in the Star Spangled Banner, Unio11 will probably play with so1ne , was the picture of Chester A. Arthur, one other team at Elmira next year. , of Union's sons. Near by was the por- Our team averaged as heavy as Yale's., trait of Judge Hooper 0. VanVorst, who Remarks were numerous in Elrnira as was president of the association at the to the gentlemanly appearance of ou1· :' tiine of his death. The flag of Camp men and of the freedom with w l1jch they Union, a pleasant reminiscence of the spent their money. ''times\- the '' boys \ have in their sum- Several Union men attempted to steal n1er camp at Lake George, was pro111inent the immense foot-ball banner bung in arnong the decorations of the room. fro1~t of the hotel; but bfJing detected in SOME OF rrHOSE PRESENT. this, 1n·omptly }Jurchased it. To the right and left of Dr. Nott sat UNION COLLEGE MEN UNI'PE. Annual Dinne~ of New York Alumni. 'TOASTS AND SONGS TO ALMA MATER, AND SPEECHES WARM IN HER PRAISl!.-SOME OF 'THE Goon THINGS SAID. Charles E. Sn1ith, of '61; John H. Starin, a college trustee; '' Eli Perkins,\ '61; Warner Miller, 'GO; the Rev. Dr. Everett Hale, representing Harvard: William H. Me Elroy, '60; V\r. H. H. Moore, the new president of the association; President ''If you want to go to Union, just co1ne • Webster, of the college; General Butter- along with me, by the light, by the light ; field, '49; St. Clair Me Kelway, of the of the moon.\ So sang Union College Glee. J3oard of Regents; the Rev. Dr. Willian1 Club last night, by the light, by the light · Irvin, a trustee; Professor William Wells, of electricity, in the great dining-hall of of the college faculty; the R8v. Dr. A. V. ·Delmonico's, where the members of the · V. Raymond, president of the General Union College Alumni Association ()f New : Alumni Association; Professors Ash1nore, York obeyed the 1nusical invitation in spirit .. Erown and Perkins of the faculty. if no~ in body. Everybody's thoughts • A1nong the others present were Robert were with old Union. She vvas talked of, P. Orr, James B. Lockwood, L. H. Mitch- an~d sung of, and yelled of, and di11ed to ... en, Professor 0. P. Steves, of Trenton; It was the second annual dinner of the Professor T. VanDusen, New Brunswick; association, and was a most successful one. The association is flourishing. It has over 450 I11en1.bers, and js one of the largest college associations in New York. Theodore R. Shear, E. N. Anable, F. P. S. :C'rane, of Middletown; Charles F. Bishop, Chauncey B. Ripley, William B. Rankine, A. T. S. OlaTk, Ed'\lvard Cary, George A .

42 THE CONOORDIENSIS. ========:::================-=::-=--::- __ -- --- --- -- Brandreth, Silas W. Burt, Samuel Marsh, . James T. Hoyt, Craig A. Marsh, Uharles · E. Sprague, John H. Burtis, Theodotus : would do anything he could to favor the proper physical development of the rnen; Burwell,. '30; Clifford A. Hand, A. P. Ber- : thond, the Rev. Dr. S. B. Rossiter, 01aTk •· Brookes, Henry Bacon, John H. Btu--tis, : Frank Loomis, the Rev. Dr. S. M. Haskins, , the Rev. Dr. John D. Wells, John 1vL River, •· Henry Parsons. ::] h dd a· ' ' ·r · t anet, .:ea.- e.,, 1: we are going -o com- pete with other colleges at :all, we want to win, you know.\ (Cheers.) W. H. H. Moore, the newly elected president of the association, in a few graceful words expressed his appreciation of the honor done him. MORE THAN SIXTY YEARS A GRADUATE:. Homer Greene, author of the poern., · '' What My Lover Said,'' sat at one of the · tables. The oldest Union man present . \\vas Dr. Elijah Whitney, of New \Yor]c who carries his ninety-three years lightly, • and boasts that he was graduated in 182:8. The menu was very elaborate. The arrangements for the dinner we=re made by the Executive Oomrnittee of 188 8- '89, consisting of the following members: _ John Bigelow, '35; John D. Wells, '38; Frank Loomis, '60; William H. McElroy, '60; William B. Rankine, '77, and Rober.t C. Alexander, '80. THE SPEAKING BEGINS. The chairman congratulated the pi·esi- dent, faculty and alumni of Union on the present condition and bright prospects of the college. Loud cheers and the . witd Union whoop followed his encouraging remarks. The ''yell\ runs this ·way: \Rahl Rahl Rah! U-n-i-o-n! Hikah I Hikah! Hikah ! \ The faculty was complin1ented thus : '' V\7hat's tl:te n1atter with the faculty? They're all right! They're Lallahs, J()U · bet!\ The chairman now announced that he wae about to introduce a. tnember of the professi0n of Ananias, a gentleman whose friend George Alfred ·Tovvnsend thus once referred to him : '-' The city of Washing- ton contains some very remarkable celeb- rities, but the ehief an1ong its prizes are the three greatest liars on earth. Don Piatt is one, and ''Eli \ Perkins is the other two.\ (Much laughter.) TRUE TO HrS UNTRUTHFUL NATURE. \Eli'' n1aintained his reputation. He graphically described the adventures of his class, that of '61, during the 'var. Historians, he aBeged, spoke of them as '' the great war class,\ and Herodotus had termed them '' the great rebellion crush- ers.'' Having closed his na.rra ti ve by re- marking that his class went to the front seventy strong and came back seventy- three strong, Mr. Perkins went on to dis- cuss the subject of veracity. He defined an excellent distinction between wit and hun1or. Hun1or, he declared, was abso- lute truth all the ti1ne. Wit _was always an exaggeration. He illustrated this by exan1ples. 'I,he art of the caricaturist, he said, was wit by exaggeration. At the election before last ''Tom\ N ast used to draw Carl Schurz, and he n1ade people laugh at Carl because he exaggerated hirn. President Webster, of the college, in an •· earnest address, set forth the possibilities of Union, and his aim in the conduct of his office. ''I am willing to put my lif€ into the work,\ he .said, \but if the col-- lege is not cared for by the men --vvho grad- uate from it, it will not be cared for by anybody whatever.\ He declared him- self in favor of athletics, and said he \ This last election,\ he went on, \'Tho- mas Nast never made fun of Carl SchuTz. Why? IJo you know why ? Because they were fellow-Inugwuinps. (Laugh- ter.) One mugwump never makes fun of J u· ':· 'l ' r:' ''; ~ .'~ ;.

''; ~ .'~ ;. THE CONOORDIENSIS. 43 another mugwump. You see, to make fun of a mugwump you would have to exaggerate him, and you can't do it.\ {Roars of laughter.) Edward Everett Hale began his address • with: \Union forever, hurrah, boys,. hu.rrah! Down with the traitor and up with the star!'' Then he spoke of college Freemasonry and its part in unifying the country. He .. spoke eloquently in favor of bringing· America and things American to.the f:t .. ont . in American colleges. ''I go about,'' said he, ''saying to college faculties, 'let us · have one professor of An1erica, American projects and American religion.' '' He · thought Warner Miller would be a good • professor of America for Union College. William H. McElroy said a few words, and then ''spoke a piece \-a clever poem descriptive of his early experiences in the pursuit of knowledge. It was received · with loud applause. MR. MCKELWAY'S WORDS. St. :Clair McKelway spoke in part as follows: Many people have asked why Union College was ever named Union College. Various answers have ·been supplied with impartial inaccuracy which distin- · guishes, received history. I shall not make a selection from among these pleasing fictions, but shall unhesi- tatingly give my own confident and uninformed views upon the subject. The name Union could hardly have been chosen merely because of the Union of the · states. The Federation was not in danger when the college was founded and did not need the mortising aid of titular adoption. Nevertheless, if you will look over the names of those who went to the college in the remote past, you will find a large infusion of those whom we afterward had occasion to call our ''erring southern brethren.\ There was thrift, Horatio, thrift, in the designation, .whether it was intended to be so or not. It was not every northern institution in those days which was regarded as a safe place for the matriculation of the fire-eaters and hotsp-urs of the · future. Union was not unmindful of her duty to the country when the hour struck danger, but during the years in which a compromise political policy tried to throw loaded dice, with the manifest destiny of freedom, the old college offered an academic home to the youth of both sections. In the civil strife she found she had given hostages to both si,des, and those who had been opposed to one another in the friendly sports of the campus were afterward at feud amid the hostiie con- tentions of the camps. Among the first of the institu- tions to regain a measure of support from the South after the war was t:his same venerable institution whose teachings had had no agency in producing our National troubles and whose policy was :broad enough and benign enough to accelerate and survive their settlement. There is an appositeness in the name of Union for an institution of higher education. in the state of New York. With all respect, it is a better name than Col- umbia, which was ·chosen as the alternative to a royal appellation. (Applause.) With all respect, it is bet- ter than the designation of any institution, whether in New York or elsewhere, baptized into the· name of any benefactor of learning, however munificent or far- seeing. {Applause.) The name expresses the most lovely and permanent feature of our Governm.ent. It speaks the tendencies which are afoot and on horse- back in religion, in sdence, in reform, in education and in politics. (Applause.) The thought of the wise and tolerant in every department of theology is toward agree.ment upon essentials, toward charity in non- essentials and toward union in behalf of the bringing of men. to God. Your name sums up an aspiration of the best preaching. (Applause.) Warner Miller made a neat little speech. John H. Starin was cal1ed upon, but con- ten ted himself with one of the shortest addresses on record -not more than three sentences. Otherswhospoke were Charles E. Smith, Homer Greene, Professor Wells, Edward Bellamy, the Re-v. Dr. Alexander, Dr. RaynJond, GeneTal Butterfield and Dr. W. H. Woodruff. With song, speech and story ''the min- utes winged their way with pleasure,\ and so, for that n1atter, did the hours. It was late before the boys, old and young, bade one another a warm farewell in the name of aln1a mater, with wishes for old Union-~~and foT n1any a day, as thy walls grow gray, rnay they ring with thy children's chorus.\ At the businessmeeting, held before the dinner, a memo1ial of Judge Van V orst was read. rrhe following officers were elected: President, Williarn H. H. Moore; vice-president, Willian1 H. Me Elroy ; \

44 THE OONOORDIENSIS. treasurer, William B. Rankine; secretary, R. 0. Alexander; executive comn1ittee, J. Lockwood, Frank Loomis, J. IJ. Hill, S. B. Brownell, Dr. D. M. Sthnson, A. 'G. Hull, the Rev. Dr. George Alexander, Williatn' P. Chamber's, the Rev. Dr. S. B. Rossiter.-New Yorlc Tribune. --\-- four lotteries to be drawn, to produce $85, 000 for Union College. .Another act, nine years later, authorized the creation of lot- teries ~.,.hich shouid yield Union $200,000, Hamilton College $40,000 the College of Physicians and Surgeons, in New York city, $30,000, and the Historical Society $12,,000. Thedrawing was solongdelayed The Lottery in College Edification. that the lesser beneficiaries began to despair One of the favorite devices of our grand- of obtaining their share of the spoil,\ and fathers for raising money for educational finally Union, or rather Dr. Nott, in his institutions was the lottery. Its use was own name, bought out the interests of the well nigh universal, not only for erecting · other institutions in the lottery, and .was and equipping colleges, but for establishing himself appointed its sole manager. He libraries, charitable institutions and even afterward sublet the job, but watched the churches. The lottery was the ''church . drawing so carefully that it eventually fair'' of an earlier generation, but in those · yielded the college over $300,000. Dr. days the for1ner title was as innocent and Nott's management of the lottery was unobjectionable as the latter is in ours. Lot- fiercely assailed liy his enernies, and the teries were then sanctioned and decla;eed , honesty of his acts and motives questioned, lawful by the state, who appointed man- • but a legislative inquiry, in which Dr. Nott agers to superintend the drawings, the was defended by the Hon. John 0. Spencer, proceeds of the lotteries to go to the insti- one of his old pupils, thoroughly vindicated tutions fortunate enough or influential his honor as well as demonstrated his enough to secure the legislative favor. shrewdness and ability. The fact that ~rhe first step taken in founding Kings lotteries are no\\N'\\ regarded as in the high- (now Columbia) College, was the grant by · est degree reprehensible, and that the law the state of a system of lotteries. The · which once sanctioned and officially in- College of William and Mary, the Univer- . dorsed them now declares them to be sity of North Carolina and Brown Uni.: ''unlawful and a .public nuisance\ (Sec- versity have each been the recipient of tion 324, N. Y. Penal Code), is not com- similar favors. In 17'75 Harvard College forting to the carping pessi1nists who took 2, 000 chances in a public lottery, . delight to dwell upon the degeneracy of and realized $18,000 toward the erection these latter days.-Mail and Express. of Stoughton Hall. Later, in 1811, Mass- achusetts Hall was almost entirely built from the a vails of a lottery which netted the college $29.,000. Williamstown!' Aca- demy, from which grew Williams College, was partially endowed in the same manner 100 years ago. Union College, probably more than any other, has profited by the lottery syste.m, owing principally to old President N ott's business tact and shrewd- ness, and his influence in .Albany. In 1805 the New York legislature authorized :PATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. R. P. I., 0; Union, 10. Rochester, 0; Union, 0. Ridgefield, 12 ; Union, 0. Roy, '93, is home, ill with typhoid fever. President Webster is going to build club courts for the Tennis association.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 45 Prof. T. w. Wright has been elected a At a meeting of college presidents and Fellow of the American Society for the professors of the middle states and Mary- Advancement of Science. land, held at the University of Pennsyl- vania in Philadelphia . on ~ovember 29t~ 'I'he brilliant oration delivered by Charles . and 30th, the following Union alumm Emory Smith at last Commenooment was were present: H. E. Webster, president repeated by him on Foundeor's Day at . of Union College; Pl·incipal 0. P. Steves, Dickinson's College. , 62 of Trenton, N. J.; Prof. G. A. The glee club that .sang so acceptably at· Hdadly, '74, professor of physics at the banquet was composed of Johnson, ! Swarthmore College, Pa.; and F. H. '90; Briggs, Fiske aad Adams, iH; Turn-' Giddings, '71, professor of political econ- bull_, Mo~her and co·ons, '92. Olny, Bryn Mawr College, Pa. The freshmen have at last -performed •· their duty toward his venerabl€ majesty, .· . the Idol, ~by preparing him for the chill •. blasts of winter with a coa-t of black: paint. One of the last public acts of the late , Judge Van V orst was to recommend Prof. ·. James R. Truax as a me1no€r of the·. Holland Society. Prof. Trua:x was duly elected, and recently rece~ved the orange •. credentials. On Sunday, No-vember 10th, the Rev. •· Eliphalet N ott Potter, forn1erly pre~ident · of this college, delivered an add-ress 111 All . Saints Cathedral on ·'' Highee education as a part of the work of the church.\ Passed engineer Ira N. Hollis, of the United States navy, was r-ecently in Schenectady. Mr. Hollis was S(}IDe years ago connected with the colleg~ as instruc- . tor in mechanical drawing; sinee then he has been on a cruise to Peru and was also stationed -at San Francisco. Prof. Maurice Perkins has ~eceived an appointment as a men1ber of th€ commit- tee to revise the United States D-ispensary. This is a very important wo1~k, as the Dispensary is a book largely used by drug- gists. The comn1ittee is com~~sed of the leading chemists and pharmacists fron1 all . over the country. A meeting of :this com- mittee will be held in W ashh1gton in a short thne. p ATRONIZ fiJ OUR AUYERTISERS. '64. The University says: \Dr. Stim- son is a member of the University and · Oeutury Clubs, and owes his great success iu life to Union College, from which institution he \Vas graduated in 1864.\ '67. Tennis S. Ha1nlin, D.D., has a ;aluable article in the Univers'ity coneern- iur:- the '' Revision of the Westminster <- Oonfessjon.\ t ''76. D. B. Frear was the den1ocratic non1inee for the assembly from the first district of Ulster at the recent election. '84. J. G. Green is practicing law in Rochester, N. Y. ·'87. Estcourt has taken Beattie's place ab. city editor on the Daily Union. '87. Edward D. Very is visiting in Schenectady. \For the last two years Mr. Very has been on the engineering corps employed on the Nicaraugua canal, and will return to that country about January 1st. '89. Culver sprained his ankle severely while playing full back on the Columbia eleven. '92. Fisher is back again. '92. Banker has returned to college. '93. Domingo Cordovez, of Equador, South A1nerica, has entered college.

I. l I l I I J 1 I I l I I I ! I I 46 THE OONOORDIENSJS. -·~=============:::::::::::::::::::::-===: --.----=-~.::=----=-=-----=-~~-=---- -~-- ·.::- .. ~ -------.~~- ======~==~================ Beattie, for three years city editor on · ·Of over 1, 200 student·s in Cornell Univer- the Daily Union, has accepted a position . sity last year, only 605 }laid tuition. on the staff of the New York Times. Harvard's new donoitory, Hastings The following Union n1en were chosen .· Ran, cos-ting $200,000~ will be ready for to places of honor at the recent e~ection : •. occupancy in about two months. '66. Edwa1·d Wemple was re-elected Prof. A.· G. Uarknes~, of the chair of comptroller of the state of New York by. Latin and modern lang;~llages at Madison, a large majority. has resigned to become associate professor '81. Naylon was elected distriet attor- of Latin at Brown Univeesity. ney in Schenectady county. The four leading female colleges in the '84. Dow Beekman was elected district .· United States are : WeUes1ey, with 620 attorney in Schoharie county. s,tude11ts ; Vassar, with 283 ·; ~mith, with 37:6 ; and Bryn Mawr, with 79. There are 500 colleges in the United States. Willian1s won the New England inter- collegiate base-ball. \ Where did you ge~t that hat, where did you get that tile ?\ Girls, if you desire fresh candies, get the boys to take you to Long's. A chapter of Beta Theta Pi fraternity has been established at Wesleyan Univer- sity. The Dartmouth faculty have assun1ed supervision of the .LEgis, the ju~ior annual. ..... Eight 1nembers of the Harvard eleven have been playing foot-ball during the summer 1nonths. Madison University will hereafter be called Colgate University, after its great benefactors. The students are opposed to the change. The lectureship on poetry at the Johns Hopkins University will probably be of- fered to James Russell Lowell for the · . coming year. Pope Taylor of Vanderbilt University at Nashville, Tenn., recently ran 100 yards in nine and three-quarter seconds, accord- ing to their college paper. Professor Andrews, f()rJnerly of Brown University, but for the p~st year professor -of political economy in :Oor·nell, returns to Brown this fall to talc:e the presidential chair. Prof. Alexander J ohnsbon of Princeton, a inaster of the political history of this country and the author of that well-known text-book, has died at tl1e early age of forty. By an act of legislabure of Virginia, merchants and others ar€ .prohibited, un- der severe penalties, frorn crediting stu- dents attending educatiot1al institutions in that state. Only seventy of the two hundred and fifty applicants passed the examination for Clark University. Tbe standard for admission is said to be higher than that of Johns Hopkins. The idea of reducing the course in Har- vard College fro1n four t(i) three years is being ear11:estly considered. by the faculty of that institution. and jf the change is made it will occur in1n1ediately. \' Union, which has made a giant's stride in one year, under the administration of President Webster, needs rnore than any- thing else a well-regulate<! hotel on the college grou11ds} which aY€ ample for that purpose. .,

' . : \ THE CONOORDIENSIS. 47 An examination in gymnastics is now . required of Johns Hopkins under~gradu­ ates, before a degree will he given. Vault- ing, jumping, and siinpllie exercises on parallel ba1~ and ladder are req nired. To the students who are intending to study [aw, it migl1t be encouraging to state, that 19 out of the 23 presidents .of . the United States have been lawyers , . ' and for 82 out of 100 years that office has · been filled by la wyeTs. The Rensselaer Polytechnic institute ' received a grand prize;· at the Paris exhib- , ition, which is the highest award given. , But two other American colleges, New York University and Johns Hopkins Uni- · versity, are si1nilarly con1.plin1ented. The shortage of the registrar of Brown · University is found to be about $6,000 .. The cause alleged is ignoran~e of book- · keeping and carelessness.. Ex-President •· Robinson, father of the registrar, will , make good the loss 'to the university. There are a few instances in n1ind where the old rule as to ecclesiastical presidents has been violated, but in each case the gentlerna11 selected has had a well-estab- . lished reputation as an educator or a peculiar adaptability for college govern- . 1nent. I refer to Dr. Pepper of the . University of Pennsylvania, Gen. G. W. Curtis Lee of the Washington and Lee ; University, Dr. Webster of Union, and Dr. Gates of Rutgers. rrhe Phi Beta Kappa Society proposes to offer, in connection with the quadric€n- . tennial of the Discovery Qf America, two prizes, of $3,000 each, for the best general essays on An1erica'.s Progress in Science and Art. The corn1nittee appointed to take charge of the 1natter consists of Bishop Potter, Chair1nan ; Pres. Adan1s, . of Cornell; Pres. Gilhnan, of Johns Hop- · kins; Pres. Eliot, of Harvard; Pres. Angell, of Ann Arbor; Pres. Northrop, of Mill- nesota University. More than half the metnbe1·s of the jun.ior class at Dartmouth · · bolted '' on acc<Junt of the suspension of several of the meinbers. Later, howeverJ they re- turiled to their duties, as they did not meet with sufficient encouragement at hon1e. Princeton College is to have a journal ma1-a.aged and edited by the faculty. Pres- ideut Patton will' be editor-in-chief, ap_d departments in the different bra..nches of learning will be conducted by tbe various professors. They will can it the Princeton College Bulletin. Plans for the proposed gyn1nasium at Yale were decided upon at a meeting of the gymnasium coi1llnittee recently held in New York. The plans chos€n were those presented by E. E. Gandolfo. These plans can for a three story buiiliding and sub-cellar. Bowling alleys, heating ap- paratus, and store rooms will be located in the cellar. The first floor will be de- voted to bath rooms, two rowi11g tanks, and the janitor's apartments. The second floor will be occupied by lock€rs and separate rooms for the several clubs, a sparring room, offices and bathing con- veniences. The entire third flooT will be devoted to the main gymnasium, which wiU contain a running track and all the most improved apparatus. The building wiU probably be one of the most complete of its kind possible. The walls will be either of brick with stone trimmings or entirely of stone, which point has not yet been decided. There 'vill be two ent,rances to the building, one of V\ 7 hich is intended for those arriving or leaving in carll'·iages or barges, and -vvhich will bear- ranged so that a tally-ho can be driven to the entrance. The feontage of the build- ing will approach 300 feet, and its depth will be about 80. ~T ork will be com~ n1enced upon the g1~ounds as soon as is practicable. -Ex.

I I 1 .. · .l I i l I I I I l ; l i i I\ ' l I I I ' 'l l i I f l I I I ! I f j\ l l 48 THE :tJONCORDIENSIS. William Raymond Baird, of New York, is about to publish a new revised edition of his ''American College Fraiternities .. '' This deservedly popu1a;e work has been of g1~eat value to the fraternity men at large, and the new edition will be generally we1- · corned. At the Phi Beta Kappa eonvention 1en senators were chosen for six years, the first seven being re-elections : Rev. E.. E. Hale of Boston, Prof. Adolph v\Terner of the College of the City of New York, :0 ... B. Frothingham of l3oston, Prof. F. P .. Nash of Hobart College, Hon. J\1athe-w· : Hale, Prof. Theodore D. Dwight of Oo1- ; umbiaLaw School, Pr·es. D. 0. Gilhnan of:, : Johns Hopkins Univ., Pres. 0. K. A.dan1.s i· of Cornell 'U ni v. , Pres. H. E. W ebstetr of ·. Union College, Rev. E. B. Parsons of .: Williamstown. .Clark University opened in October. · Following appointn1e11ts are announced : Prof. Arthur Michael of Tufts College, professor of chemistry ; Prof. J. Playfair McMurrich of Harvard College, docent ]n biology ; Dr. Franz Boaz, docent of the University of Berlin, docent in anthTop- ology; B. 0. Burt of Michigan University, docent in historical psychology ; Prof. Alfred Cook of Bryn Mawr College, docent in psychology ; Dr. Arthur McDonald, docent in psychology ~ Prof. Herman C. Bu1npus of Olivet College, Mich., fellovv . in biology. , '58. J ere1niah Green, a IneTchant at · Ol~~fl.e, N. Y., died at that place ~October 19, 1889. Judge DaviQ. P. Whedon died in. Park City, Utah, Nov. 30th, after a few days' illness. The deceased had been a resident of Utah for a nun1ber of years, and was well known and respected throughout the . territory. He vvas assistant United States .. distrie:t attorney in the celebrated John p. Lee case, and was police justice o0i Park City during last year. Hts funer:;t], which was largely attended, took place Monday afternoon under the auspices o i Utah Lodge F. and A. M., of which hf3 vyas a membe1·. He graduated fron1 lJnion in . I 1846. , G. Lansing Oathout. Ripe in years and as the result of the debility caused by age, from whic:b he has suffered for some years past, ·G. Lansing Oathout departed this life Septem h€r 13th. l\1r. Oathout. was a man of grea:~ ability. He graduated 1n the class of '29. (~fe ever took an active interest in the w .. €lfare of his Alma Mater, and ,;vhen his health permitted he never missed the annual I . . t :j_ t• J a un1n1 reunions a commencetnen:~:~ Ill~/ Subsequent to his graduation he 11ead law and vvas adn1itted to the bar, but never followed the profession. While .be had sufficient mea11s to live without e11_gaging in active business, yet he was for .a time so engaged in Michigan, and subseq_uently in New York city. He was twice n.?arried but had no children. His tastes were literary, and he was especially gi-ven to the study of the classics. The Girl I Love. The girl I love, her age, ·I guess, Is twenty sumtners or even less ; Graceful figure, and stately air, Broad high forehead and golden hair, Cheeks that rival the rose in hue, Eyes of a seldom-met...:with blue, Would that I could here express All the charn1s she doth possess. N. B. Y. The Lock of Hair. This lock of brown, so fair, so brigh,t,. Is still more precious in my sight Than rosy beatns of heavenly light), My darling. For could I not view it or thee, Life scarce would worth the living be~ The sun would cease to shine on me·, My darling. N. lf. Y .

ADVERTISEMENTS. ST. NICHOLAS. \l:nE. CENTURY Co's MAGAZINE FOR YouNG FoLKS. ENLARGED AND PRIN'l'ED IN NEW\ TYP'E. S JNCE 1873, when, under the edit.'orial rnanag~­ ' ment of Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge, the publr- ccdi on of St. Nicha!as for You11g Folks was begun, it has led all magazines for girls and boys. Noth- in£ lik:e it was known before, and to-day, as the Chicago Inter- Ocean recently said, \it is the :rn(jdeJ: and ideal juvenile magazine of the world.\ Tll<I-ough its pages the greatest writers of our time ar~ speaking to the youth of An1eri·caand England, a11d_ the best artists and engravers are training the e.res (}{ the boys and girls to appreciate the highest in .art. · Nobody knows how Inany readers St . .. N'k·l~IJ!as bas. In the third largest public library in· Arnerka,-that in Indianapolis,-. -1nore than 3r<:lDD _people read each 1nonth's nun1ber. Since the first issue Mrs. Dodge has ren1ained as eci.it{)r. Early in its history other young people's rnaga.zines, \Our Young Folks,\ '.( Th.e Little Cor- p()l:a!l,'' H Riverside,\ etc., were consolidated with it, a ud its history has ·been one of growth frorn the first... Tennyson, Bryant, Longfe How, \Vhi ttier, Miss .Alcott, Mrs. Burnett, Charles Dudley Warner, W_ ]). Howe11'3, and ahnost every well-known writer of ()U! time have contributed to its pages. T~here is ()rJ.Iy one way in which its conductors can rnake it better, and that is by making n1ore of it, and so ther announce that, with the beginning of the seve-nteenth volume (November, I 889), St. Nich(Jlcl s will be enlarged by the addition of eight, and soru(!ti<rnes sixteen, extra pages in each nu1nber. Tltis enlargement is absolutely required to make roo11.1i for the ricl1 store of new material which has been secured for the benefit of St. Nicholas readers. J)u:tiing the coining year there are to be four itn])Ortant serial stories by four well-known Arneri- ean authors. Athletic and outdoor sports will be a specia:] feature (contributed by Walter Camp, of Ya]e-, and othe1·s ). 1lle :price will be the same as heretofore, $3.00 a year, 25 cents a nutnber, and all dealers and the pu\biif>hers (The Century Co., New York) take subscriptions. Exchanges. Duling for December is a splendid number. The illustrations by Henry Sandbarn of the opening article, Wabun Anung, have a true Christmas flavor. 'fhe article itself is a clever de- scription of a hunting tour in the Great Lake Re~;ion. . 0'uting for December contains Merits and Defects of the National Gual'c;l, by Lieut. vV. R. Hamilton. Views of camp scenes: and portriiits of officers brighten the article greatly. O~tting for December contains a most interesting paper on iEnstantaneous PhotQgraphy, by W. I. Lincoln Adams, with spleNdid illustrations. Tll.e Game of Curling is described in a most spirited manner by James Hedley in Outing for December. Wheelrnen will read with great pleasure Wheeling through the Laud of Evang·eUne, by Annetta J. HaLliday in Outing for December. Sportsmen bound for the South should read AlligatOJ.' Shoot- ing in Florida, by J. M. Murphy in outing for December. outing for December contains an article by Margaret Bisland, entitled Women and theh Guns. Of the g·reatest interest to an women. Outing for December is of interest to the rowing fraternity, and particularly to college oarsmen. R. M. Hurd discusses The Yale St1·oke, and tells of its successes. 'i'he December numbet· of Outing is one of the best ever issued. ':Phere is a wealth of illustrations of a high grade. .Some of llenry Sandham's best work is shown, and sterling artists, like J.)alziel and Hoskin, have furnished most beautiful wood engrav- ings. The opening article, W a bun A nu.ng, by J:!'. Houghton, is a clear description of a tour in the region of the Great Lakes, beautifully illustrated. Another very noteworthy article is the Merits aud Defects of the National Gual'd, by the eminent authority Lieut. W. R. Hamilton. 'rhe criticism will assuredly can forth much discussion. We note further the Hame of Curling, by James Hedley; Wheeling through th~ Land . cf Evangeline; Game Protection; a very interesting iHns- teated article by ·w. 1. Lincoln Adams on Instantaneous Pho- togJ.'aJ)hy; Women and their Guns; The Yale Stroke; .A.Higator Shooting in Florida and Na-tna-g·o-os, a fishing sketch. Our Vista, Snow Sculptui·e, The Ag·e of Sail, and A Skating Interlude, are poems of much merit. 'l'he edi- torial departments present authoritative opinions on questions of the day, while the records show what has been accomplished in the various pastimes A Valuable and Unique Business Calendar. The most convenient, valuable, and unique business table or desk calendar for 1890, is the Columbia Bicycle Calendar and Stand. issued by the Pope Mfg. Co., of Boston, Mass. The < ~alen­ dai' proper is in the form of a pad of 366leaves, each 5~ x 2% in., one for each day of the year, to be torn off daily, and one for the entire year. A good portion of each leaf is blank for memo- randa, and as the leaves are not pasted, but sewed at the ends, any entire leaf can be exposed whenever desired. By an ingeni- ous device, the leaves tear off independently, leaving no stub. '!~he portable stand, which holds the pad, contains pen-rack and pencil-holder, and is made of solid wood, brass ruounted. Upon each slip appear quotations pertaining to cycling from leading publications and prominent writers, and although this is the fifth year of the calendar, the quotations are fresh and new, men- tioning the notable facts in cycling, opinions of medical authori- ties, clergymen, and other professional gentlemen, the rights of cyclers upon the road, advice upon costumes, directions about road making, with occasional mention of the bicycles and type- writers made by the Pope Mfg. Co., and the information therein contained would, if placed in book type, make a fair-sized volume. PROCTOR'S THEATRE, ALBANY, N.Y. Prices, $I, 7 5c., JOC., and 35c. The only Theatre in Albany Playing the Best Attractions.

I I I I l - I t I I I l ! i I . I I l ~ i I I I, . J . I l j L AD VERTISEMEN.TS. E LEG~NT .. AN~ u~.EF!!L ~?ODS. Our assortment includes a f\ullli.ne of Elegant :Lamps, China, Fancy Glassware and Novelties in great variety. Many other attractions too numerous to mention-COME. S. ~- J\ ~~ES, :Dva:ana.ger., Printing. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVJ:TA 'i.P IONS. VISTPING CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPES. Engraving. Brandow Printing ~company. Y. M. C. A. Building, SCHENECTADY, N.Y .• I 5 North Pearl Street, · Albany, N. Y .. WOOD BROS., 255 State Street, SC.l-fENECTAD Y, N. Y. SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~========DE NTIS T ,========~ OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. 156 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, 1PlJotogrn,p~ic 2\-rti.at, No. 429 State St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. z IMMER & KINGMAN, (iuer~, Sate a no Q!rdJange Stubtcs, IJO, I.J2 and IJ4 CENTRE STREET. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Telephone Connection, J OHN L. BURGESS, Manufacturer of SOLID GOLD JE,WELRY FRATERNITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-staks, ALBANY, N. Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~bavin9 and Hair Bressin9 ~arlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (UP ST.AIRS.) DE LONG'S Ladies' and Gentlemen's Uining Rooms, I02, I04 and Io6 Wall Street. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. s • E. MILLER, JR., MEN'S OUTFITTER, Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves, ~c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel' Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY,

ADVERTISEMENTS. THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS . ·. CIGARETTES. SPECIAL FAVOURS. Club, Opera and .Prince of Wtr1es for Gaz.tletrun, and Bou- ' cloir size for Ladie..s, SWEET CAPORAL, NE\\T YO:RK STANDARD THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD. FINE CONFECTIONS, EON BONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also fine line oJ Fancy Goods and Bonbonieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broad way. B. DEKLYN, Manager. UR:o~i~·F· a·E:E Watch: . : ' 1 S1oo.ou. ~est$&s ~wa11~n in the . world. Perfect ~u•t•·'• Warranted·heavy, GOLD 1 huntinJ cases. ladies' and gents sizes, · wo1·ks and c a s·e s of value. ONE PERSON :in locality can secure one tog~ther with our large le lmeofHousehelod These samples, as weU t'ree. All the work y~u heed do is to show what we you to those who ca11-yoor .friends and 11eighborsand those about you-thatalways results in valuable trade for us, which holds for years when once started and t.lUs we are repaid. \'Ve pny all express, freight, etc. Afte: you know all, if you would like to go to work for us. \'ou can ear!.l trom 820 to $60 per week and upwards . .Address, Sttnson & Co., Box 812, Portland, Maine .• pHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES of all kinds For Professional's and Amateurs. FULL LINES OF LEADING MAKES OF Cameras, Dry Plates and ~Card Stock, AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRIGES. .DARK ROOM FOR USE OF CUSTO·MERS. J. N. Mc>DONNALD, Opposite Delavan House. 582 Broadway, ALBAMY. N.Y. FALL AND WINTER , CLOTHING. COLLEGE BOYS' HEADQUARTERS FOR FI:NE CUS'TOM AND REA.DY·MADE AT THE LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. .Fifth Avenue Cutter, Desigvs the very Late.st. JAMES H. CROSS & CO •. Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. TEACHERS WANTED! EDWARD s. BRIGNALL, BOOTS a11d SHOES, Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number · for Music, also Art and Specialties. UNION HALL STORE. 'tlir'The most complete line and latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, Send stamp for application form and circulars of information to NATIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTON ST.' CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. 3I and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot Calls a Specialty. Telephone Connectit7n.

! I I l I I • I ! l I L l I l I •j l j. I l I I I I ,. l I 1 I I ADVERTISEMENTS. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II.5 SOUTH CENTRE ST.A>EET. The undersigned has had eleven years' experience in the Laundry business in Troy, and the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL {lf;ORI{ GUARANTEED. Equal .in every respect lo Troy Work. Gi7.1e, us a trial. EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. A. :BROWN & SON, • EST .ABLISHED 1829. c~AS, N. YATES, I.J6 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. IJurniture * fiartrooms~ Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertaining to furni·shing students' rooms. ~GOODS DELIVERED FREE. ' c HAS. HOLT,ZMANN, ffl]a\thleJP allld \la.\WiV/1 v-..-.~-w:,. ~~-~ UPHOLSTERERS AND fURNITURE DEALERS, . Nos. 20I and 203 STATE STREET, 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CLARKE, CATERER -To- WEDDINGS, BAlVQUETS AND PARTJES, 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. THE FINEST CHOCOLATES, BONBONS AND CONFECTI-ONERY Jruzde fresh dai!J'. A !so t!te largest assortment of Fancy Cakes for Parties or Suppers in the city, made at short 1totice. BA.KERS, SCHERMERHORN & CO., 112 WALL STREET, 431 STATE STREET. R K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. 01igi·nal Designs when Desired. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Peifect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. -:- -:- WILLIAM PAASCHEN, Cor. Liberty and Centn Streets. MILWAUKEE AND ROCHESTER LAGER AND FRESH ALE. A First-Class Lunch Counter Attached; also Pool and Billiard Tables. HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in llloots, £lijoea Olth lttttbbers, 260 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, MERtHANT TAILOR, 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y,

ADVERTISEMENTS. J-- . _ .V. V.ROOMAN & SON, --DEALERS I·N-- ESTABLISHED 1854· H~rd1zll~re, Sloves, Tinw~re, PLUMBING, S~EAM AND HoT AIR FuRNACEs. All Plumbing, Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attended to rs8 and r 40 State St., SCHENECTADY. AT LOWEST MA:AKET PRICE. VAN SLYCK & GARNSEY, r 7 and I9 South Centre St. ETCHINGS, . ENGRAVINGS, ._ fl~l'g MAifRJAl~. W T. HANSON -& C:O., • 33.5 STATE STREET. :IDruggtats an~ t\potbecariea. FINE CIGA:Rs A. SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOILET ARTICLES.-- -- DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES. STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING, A SPECIALTY. L A. YOUNG, E. c. HARTLEY, . • PIANOS, 0RCANS, • DEALER IN .AND MUSICAL MERCHAN.DISE GENERALLY. Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. KEELER'S --11botel ant) 1Reetaurant, 1-- 26 and 28 Maiden Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. KING, THE TAILOR --AND-- MEN'S\ OUJFITTER, No. 303 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY,N. Y. · Imported and Domestic Cig-ars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery 7 &c • .Fine .Butter a Sjuialty. 6oi and 6o3 Union Street. Grain '.fhresberR. unequa.l~d in capacity for sep- arating .and cleaning. «Jombimed Grain and. Clover Threshero fully equal to regular grain machines on grain, and ar genuine Clover Hulle:r :tn addition. Two Speecl Traction snd Plain Engines. 4 to JS Horse Power, positively the most desirable for Lightness, Economy, F()wer and Safety. Boiler has horizontal tubes, and is therefore free from tho ol:?j~ctionable features of vertical boilers. 1-.nc- lforse Powen 1 both J..ever and En.dless C.l..lGILLIC All sizes. Send ror catalogue. Address - THE WESTINGHOUSE CO., Schenectady, H.Y.

i I I I . 'i ' ' ' . I I f : l ' i i i l : I i I i i : I , I I ! ~ :! . AD VERTISEMENT8. --------------~=- =======:::::=================================~========~ THE EDISON MACHINE WORKS, SCHENECTA-DY., N.Y. Sprague Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. . .. ·.~1 INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND---- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. SCHENECTADY STEAM LAUNDRY PREMIERE AND QUALITE BONNET BLEACHERY. THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, CIGARETIE. 67 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . A SUPERB ARTICLE. The standard of One of' the FREE BESTr.rel- escopes in tl1e world. Our facilities are unequalt'd, and to introduce our superior goods we willaendFH E E -· to ONE PEJtSON in each locality, as above Only tlaose who write to us at once can make sure of the chnnce .All you have to do m return is to show our goods to those who rall--youa· neighbors and those nro1,md you 'I'he be- gfnning of this advc>rtisement shows the small end of the tele- lcope. The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to about the fiftieth part of its built. It is a grand, double size tele- ilcope, as large as is easy to cnrry We will also show you how 1ou can make from $3 to$10 a day at least, from thestart,w1th., out expe1·ience Better write at once. We pay all express charges. Address, H. HALLETT & CO,, llox 8~0, PORTLAND, MAINE. purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos prevents that dryness of the throat usually produced by smoking other brands. l)o not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving this incomparable Cigarette a trial. It is simply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1pe. WlVI. S. KIMBALL &, CO., Rochester, N. Y. I7 First Prize Medals.

. . • ADVERTISEMENTS. _--_- ___ ---_--------- _-:_ __ -- ----=========-===========================:::::=:======================================: THE EDISON MACHINE SC,HENECTADY, N .. Y. ... ~~: Sprague El:ectric Moto:rs, Edison Undergro~ud Conductors. . .. \:.~: INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM LA,UNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHERY. THOMAS ODY, Proprieto:r, 67 Cen tra.l Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. One of\the F.R E;E BESrJ;• 'rei- _ · esco.pes i o , , the \t-VOR:•Id. Ou1· facilities-are unequa.lt'd, and to introduce our euperior goods we WillllendFHEI!: · toONE PEJtSON m each lorality. as above ()n!y those who -write to us at once can make sure of the chnnce All you have to do m return is t~ show our goods to those who <'1111-your nei~rhbors and those ~round yon The be- ginning of this adv<'rti~ernent shows the small end of the tele- Jcope. The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to !lbou~ tht> fiftieth part of its bulle It is a gr~nd, double eize tele- scope as large as is easy to carry We will nl so show you how ;you can ~ake from $3 to $10 a day at least, from the stut,with- out experience Better write at once. We pay allexpr.ess charges. lddt•ess, H. HALLETT & CO,, Box~ ~t), PORTLAND, MAINE. A PREMIERE SUPERB QUALITE CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos prevents that dryness of the throat usually produced by smoking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you fron1 giving this incomparable Cigarette a trial. It is simply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1pe. WlVl. S. KIMBALL & CO., Rochester, N. Y . I7 First Prize Medals.

' ' - • < ~ ' •.' ,· ' ~ .. - ' ~' > • - ,_· '~ ' ::. •'• ·CHAS. (7. ,ELLiS P:re~l't~ . ·- .' ' . . ' . '\ . ,, - . .. ·. ' ' WALTER McQUEE'N, Vice-Pres't .. EDWARD ELLIS Tteas. · . '' ' ', . . .A:tEER.T J. PITKIN,:supt. ... SCHENE;CTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS - '' .. ' . ' . ·• ' .. ,. '' '· ' ' •' ' ,· ' ' ' ·- S·CHENECTADY, N. Y., L()comotz'ves o/ Standard Dest'g-n for all Classes of Service, or from Desz\gns furnished by Railroad ComjJanz\es. ~ '. .: -. . . . . . 1(.&o-- FoR 'RE·LIABL ... E' TB.A.DE THE .. . . . . . ... . . . . . · M.A.RK • . P.c ' ~ Flannel Sh£rts, ~-· ~~ Louttglng Coats, 0~ ~/ ' -~ft/n'0 Hou-Se Robes, -Pa;·amas, ~c. MADE ONLY BY THE NEWBlJRGH, N. Y. 1'889. TH E ., R·E L I A 8 L E'\ L.OUN CINC !JOAT. CrH ER .·~ STYLES~

CHAS. G. ELLIS, Pres't~ WALTER McQUEEN; Vice-Pres't. EDWARD ELLIS Treas. ' ' ' ALBERT J. PITKlN,:supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, :SCHENECTADY, N. Y., Locomotz'ves qf Standard Desz'gn for all Classes of Seruz'ce, or from Desz\gns furnished by Railroad Companies. 1843. A:N:NUAL 1 CAPACITY 300. 1889. ASK RETAILERS 1~~0 FOR 'RELIABL:E' TRADE THE MARK. ~ , ot o.'/. Flantzel Shz'rts V& ' ~ Loungz'ng Coats, ou ~/ · ~Vn ~~ND .(;1 ?1~ '(~ House Robes, MADE ONLY BY THE ,G) Brokaw Man'fg Co., THE \R EL 1 As L E'!' LOUNCINC ~OAT. NEWBtTRGH, N. Y . OTHER ·~· STYLES. . . EPH GILLOn'S . STEEL PENS. . lHE FAVORITE ftlJMBERS.I03,404, 604,351,170, __ _ AND 1115 OTHER STYlES 'SOLD BY ALL DEALERS 'TIIRGUGHOU1 \1111. -·-----

ASK FOR THE FAMOUS :Building ALBANT, N. r. ns. P· .. E· :G·· ·lA'· ·. L: N: io·r~ 'E. to STUDENTS to the 11 . .· · • . ' · · · . fact that we have the Largest and Finest Stock of Ready\Made Clothing, Hats and Caps, Trunks, Bags and Furnishing Goods in Albany. m=we have a beautiful Custom Department attached.., in Which will be found a large stock ·of both Foreign and Domestic Woolens. Best talent and workmanship are employed. When in Albany y.ou are invited to inspect the building and make the store your resting place. T HE stoc~ used In the ma11ufa,cture 0f this Cigar is the most expensive of any five\cent Cigar ever put on the market. It .is really a ten-cent. Cigar for five cents. Competition drove ' us to it. 3ANCHOR BRANDE -·- • COLLARS, CUFFS and SHIRTS, They will Outwear two Ordinary Collars. -·- . . All Fashionable Styles. For Sale Everywhere. . We have a c.omplete assortment of these celebrated Banjos and Guitars always in stock and sell them very_ low~ .to clubs. ~- @) STRAIGHT f/1 CLUETT & SONS. Ill ~· . . . 0 ~:) Ill 49 State St., Albany. /II \======~~~~=<> .· RElVIElVlBER, The Price is 5 cents. Not 10 cents. -·

