Vulume XHL N11mher 7. EDITORIA-L~ Lr:rERARY' __,.. APRIL, 1.890. ~,. TH·~J' -,~··. '~}\( .D a• tau~ SCHENE,CT ADY, N. Y. ~--------~--------------~-- CO~TEJ$fTS. At Commencement, The Plug Hat Parade, The De legates, 5 a . 98 99 99 Eli Perkins with the Humorists, Retrospect, Union Serenade, His Three-score and Ten, 99 President Webster at Albany Femal~.Academy, 99 Ode to Old Union, COLLEGE NEWS- . Don'ts for the Base-Ball Team, The Fair Land of France, Relative to the Chicago Banquet, The Commencement Honors, LOCALS, - g6 . PERSONALS, 97 NECROLOGY, 98 NOTES, IOO - roo IOI - IOI 103

UNION UNIVERSITY HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL.D., President UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1. CLASSICAL CoussE.........:The Classical Course is the usual baccalaureate course o:f! .American colleges. Students may be permitte to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. ScrENTu~ro 'CouRsE- In the Scientific Course the modern languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathe matical and English studies is increased. 3. ScHooL OF CIVIL. ::ENGINEERING-The student in this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of instruction, in. its collection of models, instruments and books, the accumulation. of many years by the late Professor Gillespie, and.\ also in unusual facilities :for acquiring a practical knowledge of instrum.ental field work. 4. EcLECTIC CouRsE-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected. at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examiuation, is found. qualified to pursue it. On the cornpletion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of the Faculty, Scli\enectady N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE .. ALBANY MEDIC.AL CoLLEGE-Term commences first Tuesday in Septe1uber and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities for the study of Chemistry and of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSEs-Matriculation fee, $5; te1·rn fee, $tOO; perpetual ticket, $50;. graduation· fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory com·se, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address . _WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. . •. DEPARTMENT OF LAW . THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL-The course of instruction consists of three terms; the first commencing September 5, the second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State is open to students; the Genet·al Term~ of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Co.urt of Appeals. Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each year, in advance, For information address Prof. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany, N. Y. DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is 'located at Albany; and is devoted especially to Astronomy and Meteorology. For infor- mation address Prof. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF FHARMACY. ALBANY, N. Y.-For information apply to Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D. ·\

ADVERTISEMENTS. ==========:=:::::===='========::-=:===-:__ - -------- ------- FOR CHOICE ,(!ut jf'Lowers, FLORAL DESlGN.S ·OR BASKETS, ---- GO;, TO- EGER, the Florist, '275 State St. Greenhouses, 825 Union Street. Flowel's furnished for parties at . short notice. . C OLLEGE STUDENTS who would like to earn from one hundred to five hundred doUa:rs during vacation monthsare invited to correspond w·ith the undersigned. Send for our illustrated catalog-ue., and if you will state just when you will be ready to commence work and how long you can continue at it, ; we will guarantee to m·ake you an acceptable proposi- tion. CHARLES L. WEBSTER & CO., Publishers of the Grant and Sheridan ·Memoirs, Mark : Twain's books, and other standard works, No. 3 East · ·14th St., New York. DE LONG'S ladies' and Gentlemen's Dining Room·~s, I02, I04 and ro6 Wall Street. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T ..A.X:..:B C>T, .505 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN ... .. CATERER & CONfECTIONER, 2I5 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Weddings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. JMtAD:EI ~0 O::e:CE :9. Fancy Ices, Cream, Jellz\es Ckarlottede Russe,Neapolitan Creams' Roma1t Punclt, Biscuz't Glace, Plum Puddz\ng Glace, Ttdtz' Frtliti and Fancy Orattge and Nougat .Pyrami'ds l1z al! styles, Chickett a?td Lobster Salads,. Boned Turkey, Capon and Larded Game, Oyster Patties, etc., etc. TABLE SETTING, FRATERNITY DINNERS AND SUPPER$. A SPECIALlY. ,. ':'Moral: Insure i1t the 1RAVELERS.'' H F. SMITH'S ... ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men's Furnishing Goods House, 3II STATE STREET, Cor. lYALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine TaBor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work. H eadLJ: uarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. P·rices Lower than the Lowest.

.ADVERTISEMENTS. · . . . COLLEGE BOOKS, • . . · Drawi-;zg· Papers, Pettcils and lnstrutJten.ls. All g1\ades of Stat-ion- • ery. Orders for special books not in stock filled prom.pt!y at the lowest prices. HULBERT, 235 State St., (below the canal bridge,) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. R OBERT T. MOIR, .(Successor to John Gilmoar,) H ENRY A. KERSTE, Ph. G., DEALER IN ·(@1 lPDarmariet. - (@) TOILET ARTICLES, SOAPS, PERF~TMES, Etc. 333 State and ISO Centt\e Street, A FINE LINE OF SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Imported and Domestic Cigars an4 Cigarettes, Agency for Anchor, Iuman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlan- . tic Steamship Lines. STA.\FORD BLOCK. UNION STREET PHARMACY, Cor. Union and Yates Sts., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. RESTAURANT IN THE Y. M. C . .A. B UILJ)JNG, GLOBE HOTEL, J .. A. HoucK, Proprietor. now under the direction of the Association. Rooms especially reserved for Ladies. Cor. State and Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N. Y. Open from 7 A. M. to ro P. M. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinne1, 25c. Rooms. Prices Moderate. Pleasant BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, 320 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing- and Gents; Fur- nishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. --GO TO-- L ·• T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, FOR THE CORRECT STYLES IN Also a full line of Trunks, Bags, Glo11es, {hnbrel- las, ~c., fs'c. Agent for DuNLAP CELEBRA.TED HAT. Terms: $2.00 per day. B ARHYTE & BIRCH, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD~ Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feet!, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 810 UNION STREET, l SCHENECTA.IJ y N y 209 and 211 ])ocE STREET, ~ ' ' ' J • H. DEVINE, ~ Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co: Gentlemen's Finest Foot-Wear Elegant Walking Shoes, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt, Ladies' Fine Foot- Wear. . DEVINE, cor. State & N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N.Y. Mail orders promptly attended to.

HE~ ONCORDIENSIS VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, APRIL, r89o No. 7 CoNCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. BOARD· OF EDITORS: . F. E. HAWKES, 'go, ., ------.-----~, go, B. G. LITTLE, 'gr , } W. A. McDoNALD, 'g~r, HoMER B. WrL~IAMS, '92, ~ L. H. CARRIS, 93, \ H. T. MosHER, 'go, ]. W. FERGUSON, 'gr, G. F. MosHER, 'g2, E. B. BAKER, 'qo, } EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. A.ssocrATES. · - LI'fERARY EDITOR •. AssiSTANTS. BusiNEss EDITOR. · AsSIST ANTS. : GILLESPIE CLUB EDITOR. TERMS, $r. 50 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. . S:i:NGLE COPIES, • 20 CENTS. • We desire our friends to send us contributions, items of inter- · est and information concerning Alumni. · Extra copies can be obtained on application to Busililess Man- , agi~bscribers not recei-ving papers promptly will ki111dly notify . Business Manager. Ali remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIEN· sis, Schenectady, N.Y. · Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. BRANDOW PRINTING COMPANY, ALBANY, N. Y, THE spring of 1890 is come. The third term of the collegiate year that meant so much to '90 is. arrived, and the senior returning from his Easter vacation, now, for the first time, fully realizes the magni- tude of the parting that is so soon to come. As the mazy panorama of the past four years passes before his mind's eye and well remembered scenes re-enact them- selves; while the pulses beat faster and the changing emotions transform sun- light to shadow; he seems for the first time to realize the value of the equipment furnished by his alma mater, and to rec- ognize the truth and falsity of much that was once misunderstood . • He beholds once more the pranks of sophomore and follies of fresh1nan year- the more weighty matters and more seri- I ous thoughts of junior and senior days; and, while finding much for joy and much for sorrow, sees little for true regret-all has had its part in the training gained from Old Union. All must necessaTily count in the sterner life outside of our chetished college. Yes, the senior is soon to go. Here will remain the campus, the gray cloisters, and the second or fifth-hand text books of Old Union; here will remain n~uch that has served to shape the future course of ninety; but we will not be here. yet fron1 the busy world in imagination will we often return-Old Union-to thee. To wander once more in Captain Jack's garden; to listen to the splash of the '' bounding brook,'' and to drink from its spring with the old rusty cup. Again, in fancy, will we lie on thy velvet campus and drea1nily watch the clouds that drift over the storied Mohawk, beyond whose edge flash the matchless sunsets that have so often enchanted us; again will we wan- der joyously, though reveTently, through thy halls and conjure again forgotten scenes. Yes-to thee; Old Union-will our fondest memories ever turn! Of thee can vve always say: \With dreamy eyes My spirit lies Under the walls of Paradise.\ * * -K· EviDENTLY Union College students are not mercenary, or else the ranks of poetry writers will never be filled by Uni0n men; for after a postponement of several weeks still the requisite number of songs is 11:ot forihcoming and the $25 prize fora Union College song cannot be awarded. From the number received, three will be found published in this number. These all dif-

92 THE CON·OORDIENSIS. fer entirely in plan and sen tim en t, and each has points of roe~~it and peculiar interest. Others received will be returned to the writers. As the $25 is at the disposal of the CoN- CORDIENSIS, it has been decided to offer it in the interests of base-ball. 'f1he donor has said \from minstreillsy to batting is an easy transition, and there will certainly be an award if offered thus;\ so we now place before the college the OoNCORDIEN- srs batting prize; and the sum of $25 wiH be given at the end of the season to that member of the regular nine who shall · have made the greatest rMJAnber of base- · hits in the playing of the league games. • In order that there may be no tendency • toward individual play resulting in the . sacrifice of team work, a.H sacrifice hits •· shall be counted as base-hits. The record· at the end of the season shall be taken from the books of the offieial scorer. If this offer shall have the effect of providing an incentive that shall urge to · constant practice, a high position in the league will surely be our lot, and the dis- •· position of the prize will he to the satis- • faction of both the donor and the . :QoNCOHDIENSIS. * * * THE Mail and Express, in a long and , able article concerning civil engineering schools in this country, has the following · to say of Union's course i11 that branch. We reprint a part of i:t, hoping that it · may be of sorne interest -to outsiders who are thinking of taking up the study of this important profession at the begin- ning of the next year: \At this time the United States Mili- tary and Naval schools, the University of Virginia and the South Cai'olina Military Academy all furnished, with other scien- tific instruction, a desultory and unorgan- ized training in engineering pursuits. The first :regularly organized and system- atic course in civil engineering in this country was, however, the course estab- lished at Union College, in 1846,. by Prof. Willian~ M. Gillespie, whose engineering works are still popular text .. hooks. He brought this course up to the very highest standard, to which it ha.s. since been main- tained by his successors-· Prof. Cady Staley, now president of the Case School of Applied Science, in Cleveland; Prof. W. S. Chaplin, ITow occupying a similar chair at Harvard, and Prof. Charles C. Brown, the present able incun1bent. '' Until 1S64, when the School of Mines was established at Columbia, with civil engineering among its subordinate courses, Rensselaer and Union remained the only well-recognized institutions where the best engineering instruction could be obtained. In 1868, by the munificence of Asa Packer, Lehigh University was founded at Bethlehem, Pa., now probably the best equipped engineering college in the land. The Case School, at Ole,reland_, with an endowment of $1,200,000 from the late Leonard Case, established in 1877, also holds a high place among engineering schools.\ * * THE CONOORDIENSIS takes pardonable pride in presenting its patrons this month with the inclosed elegantly illun1inated double page cut. We regard it; certainly) as , t h finest thing of the kind vv-e have seen. It first appeared in the April num- ber of the University, and -vvas furnished to them, as to us, by Robert 0. Alexan- der, '80. A large part of this number was devoted to an article concerning - Union College, written by the above- named gentle1nan. The article was ac- companied by illustrations as follo\rs: General view of Union College. Powers' Me1norial Building. Memorial Hall. North College. South College. A walk in the __ Garden. President Webster's House. The Blue Gate. A drive through the Grove. The Idol. Considering the extensive circulation of the University, it is easy to see the value of such an article as an advertising aid.

THE! OONOORDIENSIS: 93 'The constau,t and 11qtiring efforts of .· didn't say ''good mornin.g,\ but palled Mr. Alexander in behalf of the college out an old envelope, and, looking over his ba ve, bee11 of the greatest influence in glasses, :exclaimed: producing results so happy in th:eir nature \I've got it!\ and are not lacking of appreciation by \Got what~\ I asked. others. * * * ''Got a new one-Jet me read it to you,\ and thel!l he looked :at the envelope and read slowly and. carefully: \When-a-man-tries-to-make-·· himself -1ook-butiful- he- steals--a -woman's-· patent -rite. How's that ~\ '; Is that one of your best ones, Josh ~·\ I asked. \That's the best one this year,\ he said. Josh Billings often worked on a maxim a week to get it just right. He told me he worked for days, and almost screamed ''eureka,,, when he finally got this maxim to suit him : ' ' You'd better not no so IN this number will be found an aTticle by Eli Perkins, written expressly for the OoNOORDIENSIS. In this. Mr. Landon de- scribes his meetings, with other well- known American humorists. In sending . his eopy Mr. Landon writes: ''I sail for Europe-· City of Rome-May 3d. If she goes down you'll have my last article.\ That the life of the City OJ~ Ronve 1nay be as '' eternal \ as her namesake, and that '' Eij\ may be long spared to live in the pride of his alma tnater will f>e the wish of e-very Union n1an. · much, than no so many :thrings that oint so.\ This he called his w~sest saying. PATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE \US. Eli Perkins with the Humorists. I do not }{now of a living wit or humor- · ist whom I have not n1et, and some of : them dozens of times. I used to meet . · Josh Billings almost daily, for years. I · can see the old man 11ow with his long . hair and twinkling eyes. Josh was like • an old Greek philosopher-like Diogenes, · or like those grand old Romane, Epictetus . and Seneca. Yes, Uncle .Josh with his phil- : osophy was always reminding me of the. Roman Stoics. Epictetus says ''He who . puts honey in his drink is like him ~who • puts vice in his reason.\ When a man corn.plained that he got no credit foT being • good, Epictetus said, ''Why the sun shines . without prayer or praise.\ 'These were . the kind of wise things that Josh Billings : was; always saying. r.fhe last time I met Uncle Josh was on the street cars, just before he died. He One dZLy in a Saratoga letter I made my Uncle Consider sav: '·'A boor is a man oJ who talk~ so much about .himself that you can't talk about yourself.\ This so pleased Uncle Josh that he came and took break- ..!~) fast with me, and then together we evolved this saying: ' 4 Never blow a man's b~ains out to get his money, but sly around and blow his money out and get his brains.\ One day I was talking with Mrs. Caro- line Browne, .Artemas Ward's mother, about the boyhood days of .the humorist. '~Yes,\ she said, as sherubbedher spec- tacles, ''my boy .Artemas was always full of pranks. Cyrus his brother was 'matter-of-fact' enough, but Arte1nas, bless his soul, he kept us all busy. One night,\ continued the old lady, ''Cyrus went to bed in the warn:t roo1n over the kitchen. It was a blustering night, and I remembel\ how I :filled the old fireplace with greeil wood to keep him warm. But about midnight Artemas catne home fron1. Waterford, and, standing in front of the

I l l l . I I ' i I I ! ' I l I I I f I I I r I . t 94 THE C.ONCiORDIENSIS. house, commenced screaming ~Cyrus ! .. sting. Pure wit never harms the truth 'Cyrus ! ! con1e down ! ' but it does hurt error. The satire o1; \ 'What do you want·~' asked Cyrus, Nasby did more to break up human slavety shivering from head to foot as he opened ·· than Wendell Pldllips' denunciation. the front door. Then it is tl1e ·-virtuous man who has '' ' I want you to tell me honestly, Oy- the brightest intellect and '\V ho sees every rus,' said Artemas in a very solicitous joke. The wicked man, sordid with vice voice-' I want to know if you think it aud with mind blunted by intemperance is wrong to hold slaves ? \' and crime, cannot appreciate a good joke. Such jokes I lteep, for the clear eyed, moral man. He appreciates them and this is his re\\vard for being virtuous. Be virtuous and you will be happy-·. see more joy and jokes in life. I know this from my own experience. (Smile here.) Burdette is one of the sweetest charac- ters I ever met. I said this to Nasby once. '' Yes, Burdette may be a nice enough fellow,\ said Nasby, ''but there was a woe. pronounced against him in the Bible.'' \.J..t\ woe pronounced against Robert BurdPtte ! '' I exclaimed. \Yes .said Nasby, \the Bible says: · 'woe. unto him of whom no evil is spoken.'\ When I asked Burdette what was the funniest situation he ever saw, he said: \It was, when prayers were ended and our dear old college professor was giving . us boys some good advice. ' Boys,' he said, as he closed the Bible, 'you Cffiust • never get excited-· never let your angry passions rise. Now, when I was a worldly student, before I experienced religion, I used to often get excited, and, sometimes I fear I used profane words; but now I · always keep my ten1per under absolute control. No, I never get excited any more. Now, young gentlen1:en, you see that fly on my nose-(pointing gently with his finger). It is a little thing, a fly is, but once it would have excited my temper and I would have snappishly sworn at it and killed it. Now I feel dif- ferent. I simply say, with a soft motion of n1y hand, go away little fly-go away- con-DARN-. .A.TION ! IT's A WASP ! '\ * * * These humorists to be successful must all have kind hearts. Pure wit does not Rumor js the absolute truth while wit. is always the bl()ssom of the imagination. All poets, when they deal in the imagina- tion are wits. When Longfellow· says: \The sun kissed the dew drops into pearls,\ it is refined wit, of course it is un- true. It is all imagination. When · the inspired Psalmist says: \The morning stars sang together for joy,\ he exaggerates like the wit. Poetry is wit a little obscured. I once asked the Danbury News Man who was the lazi€st man he ever knew ? \Well he said; V\ 7 ith a little poetical license, ''It was old Deacon Monson. Why he was so lazy that he wouldn't shovel a path to the front gate.\ ''How did he manage it ? \ I asked. \Why he used to pinch the baby's ears with the nippers till the neighbors can1e rushiug in to tread down the snow.\ So I say the wit and poet deal entirely with the in1agination. When President Webster asked me one day at dinner who was the meanest man I ever kne-w, I knew he expected an exaggeration for an .answer. So I told him I knew a man once who kept a college boarding house who was so mean that he used to stop his cloclc nights. ~' What for ? \ asked the president.

95 ''To keep· the gearing from wearing :, And slowly I crawled from tbe sheets and the out.'' covers, ,, '·Why,\ said I, ''this man kept a dairy, Stili cursing the clappeT and day I was born. and he was so mean that he used to skin1 · Chorus-. his Inilk on top, and then, when the stu- : The old rusty dapper, the ponde:rous iron clapper, dents were not looking, he used to whirl ·: The confounded clapper, that struck every morn. it over and skim it on the bottom .. \ , And there were the rooms where we met the pro- ' ' That wasn't meanness,\ said· ~he pres- • · t: :~:essors, ident·, as his imagination began to glow ,· Where dassics and\ matics\ were taught us by till he forgot to ask the blessing, ''that rule j wasn't meanness, that was simple frugal- . And Potter's stone idol to which we were debtors, ity. It wouldn't be meanness till he Till .every class painted the head and the stool. skimmed it on the sides and ends.\ How dear are these memories when we come to .! But the president did agree with me recall them, that it went beyond frugality when my:, And the sections and rooms where we all used boarding-house-n1an went down to the · to dwell, butcher's shop one morning, and holding ,: The fun and the chams that we often had in them, out his old hat full of .something-or-other, i, But how we did hate the old\ clap\ of the bell. called the butcher over to hin1 and whis- ,! Chorus-- pered: The old rusty clapper, the ponderous iron clapper, ''Won't you please refill the In sausage : The confounded dapper that hung in the bell. skins?\ ELI PERKINS. HENRY S. RAYMoND, '93· NEw YoRK, April 17. Retrospect. .Air--\ The Old Oaken Bucket.\ How dear to~ my heart are the scenes of Old Union, • W'hen fond recollection presents them to view ! The college, the chapel, the spring in the wild wood, , And ev'ry fond place that tny intimacy knew- .' The path in the garden, and the brook th,at flowed · · by it, . The bridge and the rocks where the clear water • fell, The round house of Potter's, and the bell-room · near by it, And e'en the old clapper that hung in the bell. Chorus-- The old rusty clapper, the ponderous iron clapper, •. The confounded clapper that hung in the bell. The rust eaten clapper j I curse it with pleasure, For oft before seven when buried in sleep, I found it a source of a sound that was measured, . The loudest and meanest that metals could beat. How frantic it made me, the sound of that clapper, As clearly I heard it rebound every morn, The following, written to the beautifully sweet air entitled d Sweetest Love~\ we think might be worked into a popular Union song. It is simple, yet admirably adapted to the music and would doubtless be effective as a, serenade: Union Serenade. Air-\ Sweetest Love,\ by Dave Brahnm. Let us sing of the fair ladies, Who on Union's sons do smile, We will shout our glorious '' hika,\ And now leave our cares awhile. Seniors, Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen, Lend us the11 your sweetest aid, For we'll wake old Union's woods With our midnight serenade. Wake, wake, ladies wake, And list'n to Union's song, Slumber's guard we'll breal:, But 'twiU not be for long. Wake, wake, ladies wake, The moon begins to fade, Our song sung, our way we'll take And.end our serenade. ARTHUR ::M. LEWALD, '93· ..

l i t _j . . ! . . . I I l , I l !' .. i ' . ' ' . l 4 I ' . l . ( i :' l . I l I I t j • I l I, I ! ! l l I I I THE CONCORDIENSIS. Ode to 01d Union. Air-'~ Fair Harvard.\ Old: Union, thou home of our manhood's first years; . We· hail thee again, as of yore, When with youth's high ambition we entered thy • haUs, An.€1 itrusted our fate to thy care. Taolt fu.ast taught us the lesson,-for others to ]ive, , An.~ our hearts' richest treasures brought forth ; Don't attempt to field balls that are difficult for you to get. and comparatively easy for the third baseman or short-stop to field. Don't neglect to cover first-base if the first baseman is fielding a batted ball. Don't ''hang-up\ our catcher's hands. Catcher.-Don't throw to a baseman until you are sure that he is aware of T:ll.e: hopes of thy -chi'ld:ren are centered in thee, Th.ou pride of the land of our birth. ': · your intention. Tl:tou hast nourished our sports as thy campus we • thronged, An.cf smiled on our fro14c and fun j Th.ou hast watched o''er the strifes that with rivals ;. we waged,. A·ad ·greeted us with a ''well done ! '' And. when victory deigned on our efforts to smile, And our courage had won the good part, ......... When the c.t Hikah\ rang out to the far away hilils, . We know thou hast cheered in thy heart. When the moon's gentle light on thy majesty beams, .· And. spiritS' and elves are abroad, Then the spectres of ·those who before us have gone, Pass :by on the dark, endless, road. And as memories throng of the far long ago, And the halcyon days that are gone, We vow to be loyal, Old Union, to thee, Till time, and thy labors are done. T. H. RoBERTSON, '9 r. FATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATitONIZE US. . Gslle{ie ~ews. '' Don'ts \ for the Base- Ball Team. The following few suggestions, pre- pared by a base-ball man, are given me:r€ly as pertinent reminders to the men wh() are about to n1ake or mar our base- ball reputation ; and in nowise refer to the Flaying of any possible cancUdate for the nine.-ED. Pitcher.-Don't throw to bases too oft(jn for the purpose of catching a base runner •napping. Too often it fails dis- astJJously and too few times is it suc- cessful. Don't try to throw down to second base too swiftly, but throw quickly. There is a difference between throwing swiftly and throwing quickly. Don't be slow in returning the ball to the pitcher. Often by a quick return you can aid the pitcher in catching the batter off his guard. Don't get your hands ''banged-up.\ First Baseman. -l)on't feel obliged to keep one foot touching the base when a ball is thrown wildly to you. Step off and catch it squar~ly rather than try to reach it with one hand. Don't be afraid to· leave your base to go after ground balls that are knocked in your direction. The pitcher will or ought to cover first base for you. Don't watch your base runner, watch the ball. Second Baseman.-· Don't, where there are no men on bases, stay too near to your base. Your position in fielding batted balls is a sort of a right short-stop and you should play it as such. Don't run too far back after a fly ball, the right fielder will be running forward and will have therefore an advantage over you, and can probably reach it better. Don't, when the catcher is trying to catch the man running to second base, stand in front of the base line to receive the ball. Stand just back of the line. In the former ease the runner is sure to slide in behind you. Don't forget to back up the first base-

THE OON·CORDIENSIS. 97 man when the ball is thrown to him from • The Fair Land of France. third base or short-stop. This was the subject that Prof. Wells, Third Base.--Don't be afraid of fielding • on April 15th, announced to the audience certain grounders for fear that they ought · gathered to listen to the first lecture in t() be fielded by the short-stop. It is his • these always popular courses.. Opening busi11e.ss to get those balls that you can't · witl1. son1e stories of Mary, queen of ~et. Scots, and of Napoleon~ in which these Don't, after fielding a ball, throw it to · historical characters often talked of, .~ basen1an wben it is evidently imposible · thought of, and yea1~ned for the '~ Fair t-o get it there in tim·e. land of Fra11ce;\ the genial pTofessor Short-stop.-.· Don't fail to back-- up the asked '' What is the reason that this .t\hilld baseman on all possible occasions. . country is so loved? \ He then pteoceeded Don't throw too high to baseinen. to answer by desctibing the peculiar ,, 'Throw l9w Tather than high \ is a good characteristics of France, particularly its rule to follow. hexagonical shape and com1nandiug posi- Do11't stand too far in toward home tion in the centre of Europe, its clin1ate, base when a heavy batsman is at bat. civilization, traditions and beauties. He For the Fielders.-Don't fail to be on told of its connection with various nations the alert all the time. by its many ports ; ho\v Marseilles has Don't hold the ball after catching it; b~en moved away from the mouth of the r~eturn it at once to the infield. Rhone by the accumulation of debris, and Don't stand too far in toward the dia- noted the novel fact that the MediterTanean m.ond. It is easier to run forward after a is a tideless sea. He 1nentioned the iln- fly ball than backward. portance of the streams and canals to the Don't fail to back up the different base- .agriculture and prosperity of France. men ~rheneve:r;~ the chance offers. 'The French nation bears the impress of To the Batsmen and Baserunners.- eight or ten different types of people. A Don't be in a hurry to strike at the first century has wrought a great change in balls pitched. France. Now there are eight 1nillion soil Don't, if you can possibly overcome owners, nine or ten million artisans, and your inclination to, bat at high balls. about two n1illion professionals.. The They are the hardest kind of balls to hit, French are alive to France, and seldo1n and they are more often balls than strikes. . leave it, always being poor colonizers, Don't, if you see that a 1nan on base is ' and ever aiming to return to their cherish- going to attempt to steal a base, bat at , ed France, from which to be. exiled is the the next ball pitched. severest punishment. France is regarded Don't, after you have hit a fair ball, by her people as the centre of civilization. stop or turn your head to see what par- The speaker then dwelt upon the inter- ticular n1an is going to field the ball but minable strjfe with Germany for the river get to first base as fast as possible. Rhine, and told how the French are Don't neglect a chance to steal a base. • educated to believe it the natural boundary 'Jake every chance that offers. Many : line and that Alscace and Louraine should gan1es are won by daring base running. · belong to them. Prof. Wells closed with Don't get discouraged under any cir- • some remarks upon the political sta.tus of cumstances, and : France to the pretenders frorn both the J)o play ball from the word go. ; Orleans and Bonaparte houses ; and an-·

! I I ~ ! i . I . j ' :98 . THE CONCORDlENSlS. nou11ced that his next lecture would be,· Alexander, the secretary of the NewYork: upon the \Rise and fall of the Second , association .. Napoleonic empire,\ this to be given from • The entire heavy expenses of the pr·esi- persoual reminiscences. dent in connection with thi:s meeting Other lectures will be upon the '' Birth ;; wei\e paid by the Chicag:o association. and growth of the third republic,\ ''Of :: The entire day following the banquet was parliamentary regime in France,\ of the : devoted by President Webster to tbe ''Education, literature, arts, and popular '' reception of callers at the hotel . Ou his and do1nestic life in France.'' All of these : return fro1n Chicago the president stopped lectures will he reported in the May and over at~ Newark, N. Y., and spoke at a June numbers of the OONCORDIENSIS. The union meeting in the Presbyte1·ian church, lectures are intensely interesting and and later met several Union men at the should be attended by all who can. residence of S. K. Williams, LL.D., '4:8. Relative to the Chicago Banquet. The Alumni Association of the North- west is not only ·one of the n1ost enthu- siastic and valuable, but one of the oldest Union associations as welL The banquet and n1eeting held on the evening of April 9th, at Chicago, was the thirteenth con-. secutive gathering of this body. While other associations have been born and ·. subsequently become defunct, this has lived and steadily done good service fo,r the college. The banquet this year was held some- what late on account of the illness of both · the secretary and president of the asso- ciation, the latter of whom, although in attendance, was still ill. The chairman of the meeting was Wm, If. King, '43, and the secretary, William P. ~illiams, '81. Representatives from Michigan, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, and the North west generally, were present. The speeches were numerous, hearty and enthusiastic. .Among the speakers were Judge J. S. Stacy, '57, of Illinois; Robert . H. McClellan, '47, of Illinois ; Fred. F. Bennett, '83, of Chicago ; and the Rev . Jas. D. C. Locke, '49. A pleasant feature of the banquet was the distribution of , copies of the double page cut found in the 00NCORDIENSIS of this month. These ele- gant sheets were furnished by Robert 0. He also visited the school at thjs place. At Commencement. The office of honorary chancellor of the university for this year has been offered to and accepted by William H. McElroy, of the New Y ol'k Trt'bttt'lle staff. ~fT. McElroy graduated from Union iu 1860, and has always been recognized as an earnest and serviceable, as well as a distinguished alumnus. He is weB known as an editorial V\'riter, and also known widely by his literary productions. Un- doubtedly all who will hear him ean pro1nise themselves a treat not less than that enjoyed last year through Charles Emory Smith, who is also a uewspapet· man. The Baccalaureate this year will very likely be delivered by President Webster him self. At least this will be the ca,se if his official duties of the term do not pre- vent the carrying out of the idea. At a meeting of the senior class it was recently voted to do away with class day altogether. The evening usually filled with these interesting exercises will be devoted to a Phi Beta Kappa oration; to be delivered by some prominent member of the order. This is only the· reestab- lishment of an old custom and will, undoubtedly, meet with general approval and success. ..

I I ,J 'rHE OONCORDIENSIS.. 99 ---- - -- ___ -_- - ~-~=------==-~=---=-=-==::;:=============================-=-=~-.:=.-=-=--=--~- - __ -_ ==- -:-- The Plug Hat Parade. About noon oi1 the opening day of the _ tel'm a large nun1ber of freslnnen might have been seen emerging fron1 the college · chapel. One unused to college custonu; . would have been at a loss to understand · the object of this motley crowd as they . marched along. the streets. They were - clothed in long rubber overcoats which were not intended to keep off the rain, . for spring had come and the sun was feed- · ing nature with his genial vvarn1th. Their . high hats looked as though they hacl de- • scended fron1 the tim.e when the grand- ._ fathers of the participants were students : at Union. - \~rhe reason of this demonstration was -· the plug hat and cane parade_ of '93. The- '' Tovvnies\ were out in full force and • .aided by '92, gave the paraders their . full allowance of eggs, which, fron1 the odor that they exhaled, had evidently l1een kept over frorn the Easter of 188H .. They were also given an allowance of . vegetables. Certainly the donoTs could not have thought that '93 was fresh any • longer, for the vegetables donated to them • were not in that state. Geological speci- . n1ens were not what the class was looking : for and with the aid of a policeman these . gifts quickly ceased to be received. · Since the parade when ever you .see a freshman you always see hjs class cane. He seen1s to be very proud of it and dis- plays it to the best advantage. The Delegates. ·The inter-collegiate base-ball rneetin'g was held a short ti1ne since in Syracuse, and we clip the following account of the proceedings fron1 the University News. · Last Friday afternoon college men were seen gathering in the corridors of the Globe Hotel manifesting the usual enthu- siasm characteristic of themselves. Im- portant business was 011 hand and at 3 o'clock the convention 1net in the assembly roo1n. 1-:l. W. Pveston, Union, president of the Base-Ball Associatjon, called the meeting to order. Delegates from the following colleges were present: Ham- ilton, Union, Rochester, Syracuse, Colgate and Hobart. The convention divided itself, Mr. Preston presiding over the base- ball del€gates, and G. F. Shepherd, Syra- cuse, was appointed to act as chairman of the Athletic 1neeting. In the Athletic n1eeting the following business was trans- acted: The report of the treasurer, F. M. Macurnber, Rochester, for last year was Tead by the t:eeasurer fo1· the present year,. F. L. Carroll, Union. Mr. Oarioll's 1 Teport was 1·ead and approved. Each delegate pron1ised for the college he repre- sented that the deficiency f1~on1 his college -w-ould be paid within three weeks. The preE~ent treasurer, _G. F. Shepherd, was instructed to have 50'0 copies of the con- stitution printed. · The following schedule vvas adopted by the base- baH delegates: BASE BALL SCHEDULE. At Union I Colgate I Hobart 1 Roc'ter I Sy'c'se I Hrn'ton Union ... I * ' I June 10 I June 9 !·J-une 7 I June 6 I June 11 Colgate .. I May 24 I * · I June 6 I June ~_L<!_~·~~-~ (!~n~ 14 Hobart ... 1 June 3 t June 4 1 * ! May 3 1 June 2 I J'une 5 Rochester I Ma,Y 28 I May 30 I May 9 I * I May 10 I May 29 Syracuse. I May 16 1 May 31 I June 14 I May 241 --*--,-May:-30 Hamilton I May 211 May l2_l~a~_l7_ll\!_~Y_}61 May 271 * 'rhe sec11etary 'vas instructed to have 100 copies of the constitution of the Base- Ball Association printed. The Hobart nine was unanin1ously reinstated in the Association. His Three-Score and Ten. Prof. w·illiam Wells celebrated his seventieth birth cia v on the 14th of this month by giving a reception to the faculty at his resirlence. Prof. Wells began teach- ing when only about tw·enty years .old - and for half a century has devoted hlnl- self with untiring energy to the study of the literature and gram1natical structure of the 1nodern languages. Few men are 1nore conversant with the topics of curTent history than Prof. Wells, and his lectures on these subjects are rare literary treats. Prof. Wells has been con- nected with the college for t-\venty-five years ; during this ti1ne he has proved himself an able instructor, and has never failed to win the esteem of all with whom he has come in contact.· President Webster at .... t\lbany Female Academy. ,, rrhere was quite a large gathering last night at the Female Academy, the occa- sion being the first lecture of the course under the auspices of the Dana Natural

. r I l l - I l ' ! I ' l I I I I .. 100 THE OONOORDIENSIS.. History Society. The audience listened · with rapt attention to the admirable dis- · course of Dr. Harrison E. Webster, presi- dent of Union College. Dr. V\r ehster took for his subject., 'Science ·and Religion.' He handled the theme in a scientific -vet · fully comprehensible manner, and ex- . plained with lucidity that the two great · causes were not foreign and not opposed in .any way. ''-Albany Press and Knick- : erbocker. The C'ommencement Hono1·s. The follov,ring men have been posted · as having gained the ten highest ranks in · the senior class, and will consequently be • the comm.encen1eilt orators: E .. B. Baker, •· J. I. Bennett, H. G. Dean, N. D. Fish, • F. E. Havvkes, 0. Johnson, S. J. Lochner, E. F. Pickford, G. 0. Stewart and A. B. ·van Voast. The valedictory honor has • been awarded to Van V oast. The literary work for this ter1n will co1nprise a senior essay. subject, '· Ag- • nosticisrn vs. Dog1natisn1 ; \ a junior · oration and also an essay upon '' Human slavery in the last decade of the nine- teenth century;\ a sophomore oration and an extemporaneous essay from the freshrnen. Spruel, '93, has left college. Locbenstein, '93, has left college. Culver, '93, is at home ill with ty11hoid . fever. The freshmen are very proud of their class canes. Syracuse men claim their team to be heavy hitters. Wright, '90, is ill at New York with typhoid fever. Orders f?r invitatio1~s n1ust be_ given to the co1nnuttee by April 25th. The old benches in the chapel are soon · to be replaced by opera chairs. A nun1 ber of the juniors have elected · photography vvith Prof. Perkins. _ L. J. Little, Union '86, is assisting Prof. · Brown with his engineering classes this terna. · Edwards, '90., has left college. This leaves thB office of cla;ss prophet vacant. The baU nine is now practically chosen, and the rnen are doing splendid work in their daily practice. The engineers of the freshman,. sopho- n1ore and senior classes are busy with field work i;his tern1.. ' Prof. Ripton has taken up his classes again, having al1no.s t entirely reco:vered from his long siege of illness. rrhe ma,nager of the freshman nine has picked ou-t his tean1 whieh promises to be · a very good one, and has arranged for several g.arnes this t.ert:Il. Students in Prof. Hoffn1an's classes will not have tbe benefit of the '' 10 percent bolt schen1e \ ibis ier1n, but will be obliged to obtain exeuses for every absence as in n1ost otheY classes. , Colgate claims to have t.he strongest tean'l in the league, Hamilton's tea1n is about the san1e as last year, and therefore it is a good one. Hobart's nine is not a very good one this year, so the Hobart n1en say. Sanders,, '92 has been caeed for, during a recent s€-vere illness, at the residence of Prof. PeTkins. Vague runJ.ors of the custon1ary convalescent appetite give evi- dence of bis excellent care and complete recovery. The '' 11ine \ will be picked from the follovving n'len: McDonald, '90, Begley, 'DO, Braht, '93, Mosher, '!)0, Pickford, . '92, Little, 91,, Talhnan, '93, Thatcher, '93, McQueen, '92, Babcocl{, '93, Wright, '90, Briggs, 'f)J, and Shanahan, '93. Manage1· Comstock's scheme for raising n1oney for base ball expenses has proven to be a veYy. good one. The major~ty of the men have purchased the season tickets and it seems as if no one ought to be with- out one of those garnet ribbons. Roches.teT pro1nises to have a very fa~r teain. They expect good work from their battery. Syracuse University has several new 1nen on the team ancl hopes to take a good place in the race for the pennant. Time will show what Union's team can do. p Besides ihe regular league schedule, found in another column, other games have been arranged as follows: With

/ THN CONO·ORDIENSIS. 101 R~dgefield at Albany, April 20th;: with. University, and in 1883 wasbeaten for the Ridgefield at Union, May 3d; with the • 'Supreme c·ourt. In 1885 he was chosen '' Edisons\ at Union,. May 30th; with · prosecuting attorney of his county, the Clinton Institute at Union, April 26th;: sa,me office he. had filled nearly. forty with Michigan University at Union on. years before. He was mentioned for a May 19th, possibly. place on _the Civil Service Commission . Friday, April 11th, eighteen of the • when President Harrison came in. His young ba~helors in town gave a very ele- : recent appointment as assay commis- gant ball In Wedge hall, to which a nun1- · sioner is said to be gratifying to hin1. ber of the students were invited. It was · Notwithstanding his frequent changes, a very successful and pleasant dance .. ·Gov. Blair has always had the r~spect and Parlatti of Albany furnished the m.usic, • confidence of both parties in Michigan. and Lucas of Troy served the supper. -·Chicago Tribt:tne. Thursday, April lOth, a game of ball' · ;81. WiHiam B. Landreth and fan1ily was played between the upper and lower have returned to Schenectady after a win- classmen, which resulted in a decided ter's residence at White Plains, vvhere Mr. victory for the upper classn 1 en. The I-!andreth was engaged in engineering. score stood 1'7 to 5~. Braht·and McDonald, .. / '82. The popular professor·, A. S. '90,_ played battery for the upperclassmen Wright, was married during Easter vaca- ~ while Babcock and T11atcher showed their tion to Miss Julia Barhyte uf Schenectady. skill for the others. The other players Mr. and Mrs. Wright have taken up their were, UpperClassmen: Mosher, '90, 3d B., residence on the hill in the house formerlv Con1stock, '90, R. F., Pickford, '90, L. F., occupied by Prof. T. W. Wright. v Clute, '90, 0. F., Briggs, '91> 2d B., Little,. '87. Dow Beekman, who was last fall '91, S. S., McDonald, 91, 1st B. Under elected district attorney of Schoharie Olassmen: Pickford, '92, lstB., McQueen, county, was in town recently calling on 2d B., Prest, 3d B., Shanahan, L. F., his old friends. Esselstyne, S. S., McAlpine, R. F., '89. Max M. Smith has been chosen I...Jamb, 0. F. The game showed some valedictorian of the class of '90, of the good batting and much good fielding, Homooopathic College of the city of New demonstrating clearly that there is plenty York. of first-class material for the team. · '39. The president has appointed ex- Governor Austin P. Blair of Michigan, as assay commissioner. Gov. Blair is now in his 72d year. His has been a reinarka- ble political history. In 1859 he was prominent enough to be a republican can- didate for the Senate. In 1860, he was a delegate to the Chicago convention. His record as war governor of Michigan is . still remembered. After leaving the gubernatorial chair he served for eight years as a member of the House, and was once ortwiceagain a candidate for the Sen- ate. In 1872 he was one of the leaders among the liberal republicans, and was a strong opponent of Gen. Grant. In 1876 he headed the Tilden electoral ticket. Four years later he was a Garfield .elector. In 1881 he was made a regent of the State , '.29. Philip Bard Bradley died March 21, at Andrew, Iowa. He was a well-known l~wyer, and was prominent in the early h1story of Iowa. ~ '38. Robert F. McAuley died at Kings- ton, March 19. He was born in Delaware county in1816, .and was the son ot William McAuley, a Scotch Presbyterian minister. After graduation he studied law with Amasa J: Parker and was admitted to the bar in 1845. He was a rnember of the well-known law fir1n of Van Buren & McAuley. He was elected district attorney of Ulster county in 1850, and recorder of the city of Kingston in 1872. He gradu- . a ted from college in 1838. He was a <I>. B. K. . '64. J. H. Stewart died March 8th at rrrenton, N. J.

I. I ·I I l ! ' I I I· l . 102 ~~.·: ·~ THE OONOORDIENSIS. COLUMBIA ·~- COLLEG8. JVEW .:Y 01?,K CirrY: SCHOOL OF MINES. • • (j)~ - .· The system of instruction includes eight courses of study, v.iz.: mwtng engineering,. civil engit1:eerlng, metallurgy, geology and palreontology, analytical and applied chemistry, archi~tecture, sanitary engineering, electrical engineering. The courses in sanitary engineering and electrical engineering are for graduates of the School of Mines and other schools of like grade and standing. · The plan of instruction Includes lectures and recitations in the several departments of study ; practice in the chemical, tnineralogical, blowpipe, metallurgical, architectural and electrical laboratories; field and under- ground surveying; geodetic surveying; practice and study in mines, mill's, machine shops, and foundri.es; projects, estimates, and drawings for the working of mines and for the construction of metallurgical, chemical, and other works; reports on mines, industrial establishments, and field geology. . During the Summer Vacation, there are Summer Schools in Mechanical Engineering, for practical work in foundries and machine shops; in Surveying, for practical work in the field; in Practical Mining; in Practical Geodesy-all under the imm,ediate superintendence of professors. · SCHOOL OF LAW. The course of study occupies three years, and affords not only a genera'l view of common law and equity jurisprudence, but may be widened at the option of the student to include medical jurisprudence, criminal and constitutional l'aw, international law public and private., and comparative j.urisprudence. Graduates of literary colleges are admitted without examination. Other candidates for a degree must pass an entFa·nce examination, or produce a certificate of Regents' examination. Applicants whoare not candidates for a degree are admitted without a prelitninary examination. SCHOOL OF POLITICAL SCIENCE. The prime aim of this school is the development of all branches of the political sciences. It offers ten courses in political and constitutional history, nine in political economy, nine in constitutional and adminis- trative and international law, five in Roman law and comparative jurisprudence, and two in political phH()so- phy-in all, more than forty hours per week through the academic year. Opportunity is also given in Semi1z- aria for training in· methods of research. The full course of study covers three years. For admission as candidate for a degree, the applicant must have satisfactorily completed the regular course of study in this college, or in some other maintaining an equivalent curriculum, to the endof the junior year. Special students admitted to any course without exami,nation upon payment of· proportional fee. The degree of A. B. or Ph. B. is conferred at the end of the :first year, A. M. at the end 9f the second, and Ph. D. at the end of the third. In addition to the above :special schools for graduates and others, th,ere is, in connection with the School of Arts, a Graduate Department in which instruction is given to graduates of this and other colleges i.n a wide range of subjects, e-mbracing advanced courses in languages and literatures(andent and modern), mathematics and the mathematical sciences, philosophy, law, history, the natural sciences, methods of :11esearch in chemistry and physics, practical work in the astronomical observatory, etc. A student in this department may attend a single course, or any number of courses; he may also, at his option, enter as candidate for the degree of master of arts, doctor of letters, doctor of scienc~, or doctor of philosophy, Circular of Information, giving details as to courses of instruction, requir~ments for admission, remission of fees wholly or in part, prizes, fellowships, etc., etc., of any of the schools may be had by addressing the Registrar of the College, Madison Avenue and 49th Street, New York City. SETH LOW, LL. D., President of Columbia College.

ADVERTISEMENTS. Notes. We came across the following ]a;tely in 'an old newspaper, and repr(Hlluce it in the hope that some of the many admirers of Prof. Jackson may chance to see it. The poem was written by the Rev. Horatio N. Powers, D, D., who gradua~t€d in ''52. IN MEMORIAM. PROF. ISAAC W. JACKSON, UNION C{)LLEGE. HORi\.TIO N. POWERS. This man was manly through and through, He loved his life with noble cheer; Simple, and strong, and wise, arid tr-'t!te,, His youth bloomed to his latest year. He grasped the inner thing. He tore Aside the masks of vain pretense. To dearer light the truth he bore, In conquering arms of stalwart sense. By this he won our youthful trust, Our ripened reverent friendship kept. How grateful rise, now he is dust, A thousand memories that slept! For this the \Boys\ who bear to-day Of toil the b11rden and the heat, Cast lilies with full hands, and say, \ 0 master, may your rest be sweet ! '' July 28, 1877. ACADEMICA~L GOWNS an:d CAPS Correct styles and materials for uni- versity and college use. 'These gowns add grace and fullness to speaker's form. P R I C E S according to mate rial and number ordered. Special prices for large classes. For measurement, send height, width of shoulders, size of neck, and length of sleeveu G. W. SIMMONS & CO., OAt< HALL, • • BOSTOW, MASS. Send 5 cents for cap and gown circular with PHOTO· GRAPH. Rlchm:ond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes. C ,lGARETTE smokers who are willing to pay a Httle more than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to aU others. The Richmond Straight-Cut No. I Cigarettes are ,made from the brightest, m,ost delicately flavored and hig:best cost Gold Leaf grown in Virgiaia. This is the Old and Origin~l Brand of Straight-Cut Cigarettes, aad was brought out by us in the year r875. Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below .is on every package. ALLEN & ·GINTER, Manufacturers, RIC~fMO~D. VA. PROCTOR'S THEATRE, ALBANY, N.Y. $Dly ~,if~t-$ta~$ 'UraiUon~. Prices, $I, 7 sc., soc., and 35r. The only Theatre in Albany Playing the B .)t Attractions.

I I I ' l I .. I I I i I I . I ·i 1 ,, I I I . l - ! ! , I l - I I I I I I I ' ! ADVERTISEMENTS. E LEG~NT __ AN~ U?,BFI!.L ~?ODS. Our ass0rtment inclu.des a full line of $ll\?er== ~~late() utlare, Elegant La;mps, China,, Fancy Glassware and Nov;elties in great c variety. Many ~ther attractions too numerous to mention-COME. .s. B.. J\' .A.~ES, ::t:v.:I:a:n.a.ge:r., Y. M. C. A. Building, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WOOD BROS., . . 255 State St-reet, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLA.RS AND CUFFS. DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~==· ===== D EN TIS T ,=======~ OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P.M. 156 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, . Printing. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVITATIONS. VISITING CARDS. NO':I.,E HEADS. ENVELOPES; Engraving. Brandow Printing C·ompany\ I 5 North Pearl Street, Albany., N. Y. 1 OHN L. BURGESS, Manufacturer of SO,LID GOLD JEWELRY FRATERNITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stairs, ALBANY, N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~bavin9 and Hair- Bressin9 ~ arlors, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (1JP STAIRS.) ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. Finest in the C£ty .. No. 429 State St., ·scHENEc. TADY, N. Y . s & ro s. PEARL STREET, Opp. Globe Hotel, ALBANY, N. Y. z IMMER & KINGMAN, .ftiucry, 9 aLe uno \lttt~ange 5tables, IJO, I32 and .I34 CENTRE STREB T. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice .. Telephone Connection. s • E. MILLER, }R., MEN'S OUTFITTER, Neckwear, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves, ~c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. FINE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE, A-lBANY.

ADVERTISEMENTS. -----~------------- !. - ·--------- THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS .··. ClGi\RE~T'TES. SPECIAL FAVOURS. Club, Opera and Prince of Wales for GentteJJten, atul Bou- doir size for Ladies, SWEET CAPORAL, NEW YORK STANDARD, THE S'.PANDARD OF r.t:HE WORLD. FINE CONFECTIONS, BON BONS AND CHOCOLATES. Also fine line of Fancy Goods and Bonbonieres. 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, ALBANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway. B. DEKLYN, Managet·. EDWARD s. ERIGNALL,. BOOTS a1;zd SH·OES, UNION HALL STORE. ~iiirThe ntost complete lz'ne etttd latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, -- -- --------- 'Solid. . . UR NEW·F·R·E'E Watch . · . · . • $100.00, Heat BS the world. Perfect ....... _vv J~'\ . warranted heavy' GOLD hunting cases. -ladies' and gent's sizes, works and cases of -H .......... value. ONE PERSON in locality can secure one together With our large valu:able line ofH ouseheld These .samples, as well as the are free. All the work you heed do is t() show what we send you to those who call-your friends andneigllborsand those about you~tlmtalwaysresults in valuable·trade·f'orus, which holds .for years wh~n once started, and t.ms we m~e.repaid. Vve pay an express, freight, etc. After you know al 1, if you would like to :go to wo:r.k for us. you can earn from $~0 to $60 per week and upwards. .Ad~ress, Stinson d.>i. CQ., Box 81~,. PoJ.•tland, Maine. pHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES of all kinds For Professionals and Amateurs. FU\LL LINES OF LEADING MAKES OF C\-ameras Dry Plates and Card Stock, AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRICES. DARK ROOM FOR USE ;QF CUSTOMERS. J: .. N .• McDONNALD, Opposite Delava:n Honse. 582 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. FALL AND WINTER CLOTHIN,G. COLLEGE .130 YS' HEADQUARTERS FOR FINE CUSTO:M AN'D READY·MAD;E AT TH~ LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. Fifth Avenue Cutter, Designs t!te very Latest. JAMES H. CROSS & CO., Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane,. ALBANY, N. Y. ' I TEACHERS WAN.TED Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for Music, als<> Art and Specialties. Send stamp for application form and circulars of in formation to NATIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUNEAU, :Mention this paper. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTO I\ ST. CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. 31 and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot Cal(s a Specialty. Telephone Connection,

I I l I ! P' ~ j i ' l I . I I l i ADVERTISEMENTS. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDRY, II5 SOUTH CENTRE STREET. The undersigned has had eleven years' experience in · the Laundry business in Troy,. and the produc- tion. o:E this Laundry is second to none. CHAS. N. YATES, I36 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ALL WORK GUARANTEED. ·. Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all artides pertaining Equal in every nspect to Troy Work. Give us a trial. • EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. A. BROWN & SON, ESTABLISHED 1829~ :UPHOLSTERERS AND fURNITURE DEALERS, · 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CLARKE, CATERER -TO- to furnishing students' rooms. ~GOODS DELIVERED FREE. c HAS. HOLTZMANN, Nos. 2oi and 203 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Peifect Fit and Good Work Guaranteed. -:- -:- BELLER'S :JBitliarb )parlors. EIGHT COLLENDER TABLES-FIRST- CLASS WEDDINGS, BANQUETS AND PARTIES, BAR ATTACHED. 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY, N. Y. s • SCHERMERHORN & CO., BAKERS AND CONFECTIONERS, 431 State Street. The finest Fancy Cake, Ice Cream, Con.fectiotzery and everything for Society SupperJ on hand and to order at short notice. VIENNA BAKERY. Union Hall Block . SCHENEC'rADY. R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, CARDS, MONOGRAMS. 01igina! .Desig·ns when Desired. I C. A. G. BELLER, PROP. Cor. State and Center Sts., Schenectady, N. Y. H ARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and RetaH Dealer in 260 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, MERtHANT TAILOR, 237 STATE STREET, SCI-:!ENECTADY, N. Y.

ADVERTISEMENTS. EsTAELISHED 1854. · J V. VROOMAN & SON,. e --·· DEALERS IN-· - Hhrd '\zi~re, Sloves., iin\llt\re., PLUMBING, STEAM AND H0\1' AIR FURNACES. All Plumbing~, Steam and Gas. :Fitting Promptly Attended to. · ·' J38 and I 40 State St., SCHENECTADY. WE ALWAYS SE.LL Co·~Ll. Wood! And Best Patent Flour AT LOW:EST MARKET PRICE. VAN SLYCIC & GARNSEY, · 17 and Ig South Centre St. ETCHINGS, ·.:: ~ENGRAVINGS, · ·. fl~l'~MAl'(RJAl~,.: W 'f. HANSON & CO., • 335 STATE STRE:E T. ll)ruggtsts an~ t[potbecartes. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS OF HANSON'S MAGIC CORN SALVE. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. -DRUGGISTS' SUNDEIES. LEVI CASE & co., ... tmne~r, in~~ and i'ui iran W,'artp, STEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIAL 'fY. L.A. YOUNG, . . . E.c. HARTLEY, PIAN:OS, 0RCANS, DEALE!~ IN AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLY. . Imported and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. ARCADE BLOCK, SCHENECTADY, N. ~· KEELER'S --11botel an~ 1Restattrant, 1-- 26 and 28 Maiden Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. KING, THE TAILOR --AND....,...-- MEN'S~ OU1.'FITTER, No. 303 STA1'E STREET, SCRENECTA.D Y, H .. Y. tionery, &c. Fine Butter a Specialty. 6oi and 6o3 Union St?:eet. THE FINEST . • I: I BA~ IN SCHENECTADY. • • CHARLES H. MYERS. Cor. Centre and Liberty Sts. WIENCKE'S Germania Restaurant, 322 STATE STREET.

! I l I r . f l 1 I I- l l I I I I I I .ADVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MA:CHINE U/QRKS, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. S:prague· El~ectric Motors, .Edison Unde:rgrouud Conductors. INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND-·- EDIS·ON ELECTI'RIC LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM LAUNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHERY. THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, . SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Oneof'the FREE BES'.I' ~r.el- • e!i:copes 1 n the WOI'l d. Our facilities are unequaled, and to introdt1ce our ... superior goods w~ will sepdF~ 'EE . toONE PERSON 1D each JNihty, as above Only those who write to us at once can malte sure of the clumce .All you have to do 1n return is t~ show our goods to those vvho rail-your neig-hbors and those around yoU- The bt.>- gfnning of this adv.ertisement shOWs tlie small end of the tele- acope. The following cut gives the appearance of·it reduced to abou~ the fiftieth part of its bulle It is .It grand, double size tele- scope as large as is,easy to carry We Wlllnlso show yotl how ;y-ou a ~ake from $3 to$1 0 a day at ]Past, from the start,wJth- ~u~ experience Better write at once. '\Ve pay all express chargl•s. ~ddress, H. HALLETT & CQ,, Box 8~0, PORTLAND, 111AINE. A PREMIERE SUPERB QUA LITE CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos 1revents that dryness of the throat usually produced by srn oking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving this incotnparable Cigarette a trial. It is simply perfection, a luxury and not a low priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the pipe. WlVI. S. KIM:SALL &, CO., Rochester; N. Y. 17 First Prize Medals.

CHAS .. G. ELLIS, Pres't. WAt.I'ER McQUEEN, Vice-Pres't. EDWARD ELLIS, Treas. ALBERT J. PITKtN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1 Locomot£ves· of Standard Design /or all Classes of Set11ice, ~o·r (rom DesZ:gns jurnzshed by Ra£lroad Compan£es. 1843. ANNUAL CA'PACITY 300. 1889. ASK RETAILERS Co., THE \RELIABLE'~ LOUNC·INC COAT. NEWBURGH, N. Y. OTHER ~ STYLES.

ASK FOR THE FAMOUS ! r· I I . I ·I }fe11.1 ~uiZding , J 4LBANY, N. r. I .. I .. ! t ' '' I ' . FlNEST STORE IN TH:E UN.ITED STATES. Largest and Finest Stock ·of Ready-Made Clothing, Hats and Caps, Trunks; Bags and Furnishing Goods in Albany. , _ .. .- .. ·~ ~ ~We have a beautiful Custom l)epartment attached, in which will be fou!Jd alarge stock of both Foreign and Dornestic Woolens. Best talent and workmanship are employed. When in . .Albany you are invited to inspect the building and ma)te tb~ store y<>llT resting place .. ·. r· HE stock used in the manufacture <>f this Cigar.· is th~ most • • expensive of any five-cent Cigar ever put on the D!al'~~t. It · is really a ten-cent Cigar for five cents. Competition drove 11s to it. 3 ANCHOR BRAND E COLLARS, CUFFS and SHIRTS, ·:· They wil.l Outwear two Ordinary Collars. ·:· All Fashionable Styles. For Sale EverywherE . ' ' ' ,. , '

