!· Volume XIIL FEER U AR Y, :t890e @·--Union .~ •JIZL IS~ SCHENECTADY,. Ne Y, ----·~----~----------~------ OOJSTTEN\TS_ EDITORIAL, LITERARY- Sources of Error in the Measuren1ent of Ang~es, COLLEGE NEWS- A Generous Donor, The Gillespie Club, On Prayer Day, The Sophomore Ball, Concerning \Eli Perkins,\ A Long Unanswered Qnery 11 To the Alumni, The .Albany Banquet, LOCALS,. - 65 INTER-COLLEGIATE NEWS, NECROLO·GY-- Frank A. Paddock. Dr. }ohn Orville Taylor, Judge ] ohn C. N ott, Orlow W. Chapman, ExcHAN\G ES, I Null)ber 5. 2 F 74 74 74 74 75

... _.~ ;:· +t ~ · t : ~ 7 . : ':\ ~ . r r-!,.. ~ ; -~ ¥ ... ' ' .I ;. • ;~w\ '[.~.~ ! ,tf;; t..... A ~~· :. ; . .,.. * ~ .............. ~-- ...... ~h- .. -?....-----·- ....... Volume XIIL FEBRUARY. :1890 . . , . ~. All 0 SCHENECTADY, Ne Y, ----------~------~--------- EDITORIAL, LITERARY- Sources of Error in the Measurement of Angles, COLLEGE NEWS- A Generous Donor, The Gillespie Club, On Prayer Day, The Sophomore Ball, Concerning \ Eli Perkins,\ A Long Unanswered Qnery, 6g To the Alumni, The Albany Banqnet, LOCALS, - INTER-COLLEGIATE NEWS, NECROLOGY- Frank A. Paddock. Dr. John Orville Taylor, Judge John C. Nott, Orlow W. Chapman, EXCHANGES, NuiQ.ber 5. F M 74 74 74 74 75

UNION UNIVERSITY HARRISON E. \iVEBSTER, LL.D., President UNION COLLEGE, .. SCI-IENECTADY, N. Y. 1. CLASSICAL Cou.RsE~Tbe Classical Course is the usuall>a.<JGalaureate coU:rse of American colleges. Students may be permitted to pursue additional studies in either of the other courses. 2. ScniNTIFtc CouRsE--In the Scientific Course the mode:rn. languages are substituted for the ancient, and the amount of mathe- matical and English studies is increased. 3. ScHooL OF CIVIL ENGINEERING-The student iu this department enjoys advantages nowhere surpassed in the course of in.struction, in its collection of models, in.strumen.ts and bo0ks~ ,tlte accumulation of many )ears by the late Professor Gillespie, and also in unusual facilities f<n· acquiring a practical knowledg,e ofbJ.strumental field work. 4. EcLECTIC CouRsE-An Eclectic Course, consisting of studies selected at pleasure from the preceding courses, may be taken by any one who, upon examination, is found qualified to pursue :it. On the completion of this a certificate of attainment will be given. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallll.rgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address HENRY WHITEHORNE, Dean of the Faculty~ Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTM:E.NT OF MEDICINE. ALBANY MEDICAL CoLLEGE--Term commences first Tuesda;:yin September and continues twenty weeks. The plan of instruction combines clinical teaching with lectures. Special opportunities. for tbe study of Chemistry a.nd of Practical Anatomy. ExPENSEs-:Matriculation fee,· $5; term fee, $100; perpetual1tieket, $50; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $5; fee for laboratory course, $10; histological course, $18. For circulars address WILLIS G. TUOKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LA\V. THE ALBANY LAw ScHooL-The course of instruction consists of three terms; tbe first commencing September 5, tbe second November 28, and the third March 6; each term consisting of 12 weeks. The advantages for the study of law.at Albany are as great as can be found anywhere. The law library of the State is()pen to students; the General Terms of the Supreme Court of the Third Department, and all the terms of the Court of Appeals. Tuition, $50 each term, in advance; $130 each year, in adva.noe.. For information address Prof. HORACE E. SMITH, LL.D., Albany, N.Y . . DUDLEY OBSERVATORY. This Department of the university is located at Albany, aad is devoted especially to .Astr-o:uomy and Meteorology. For infor .. mation address Prof. LEWIS BOSS, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLE.GE OF PHARl\1ACY. ALBANY, N. Y.-For information apply to Prof. WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D.

; . ADVERTISEMENTS. FOR CHOICE <rut jflowers, F'LORAL D:ESIGNS OR BASKETS,. -GO To-·- EGER, the Florist, 275 Sta.te :St. Greelillouses, 825 Union Street. Flowers furnished' :foTparties at ; short notice. · WIENCKE'S :Ger~ania Restaurant, 322 STATE 'STREET •• ARNOLD'S BILLIARD PARLORS. Finest £n the C£ty. 8 & ])0 s. PEARL STREET' Opp. GloO.e Hotel, ALBA .ATV, N. Y. PHOTOGRAPHS THAT ARE PHOTOGRAPHS, COME TO T .A.:I:..a:EJC>T 7 50.5 STATE STREET. KLEEMANN, CATERER & CONFECTIONER, 2IS .STATE STREET, SCHENECTA» V, N. Y. Wedd·ings, Parties and Festivals furnished on short notice and at reasonable prices. MADE \1:'0 OE::OEE.. FancyFce.s, Cre.ti11t, :Je lli'es, CkarltJtte de R usse, N eapoliia~t Crea·ms, Ronuztt Pttnch, Blscuz't Glace, Plu-m. Puddi?tg Glace,. 7u:.tti Frutti am~ Fancy Oratzg-e and Nougat Pyramids ln all styles, Ckz'cke1t and Lob.st.er- Salads, Bo1eed Turkey, Capon attd Larded Gcmu~ Oyster Patii~s, etc., etc. l~&LE SETriiUI, FRATERNITY DINNERS AND :SUP.PERS A SPECIALTY I I . ''Moral: ltzsure in the JRA VELERS.'' H . F. SMITH'S ---NEW--- ONE- PRICE Clothing and Men~s Furnishing Goods House, 3II STATE STREET, Co-r. WALL, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Fine Tailor-Made Clothing Equal to Custom Work Headquarters for Boys' and Children's Clothing. Prices Lower than the Lowest.

ADVERTISEMENTS .. • • COLLEGE B·OOKS, Drawing Papers, Pfncils and Tnstruments. All g1~ades .o.J Statimt- . e-;y.. Orders for special books not .in :stock filled promptly al the lowest prices. HULBERT, 235 State St., (below the canaJbridge,} SCHENECTADY, N:. Y. R OBERT T. MOJR~ .(Successor t0 J'oh.n Gilmour,) HENRY A. RERS'fE, Ph. G., DEAI:.:ER IN @ :p·t!h~o rma cist. '(@) TOILET ARTICLE'S, SOAPS, PERFlT.M'ES, Etc. 333 State and 1.50 Centre Street, iA... E'INE LINE OF SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Imported and DoJJUJsUc~. Cigars and Cigarettes, · .Agency for Anchor, Iuman and Hamburg-Americau Trans-Atlan- tic Steamship Lines. STA.\FORD BLOCK. UNION .STREET PHARMACY, Cor. Union and Yates:Sts., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. RESTAURANT IN THE Y. M. C . .A • .l3 U I LJ) I NG, GLOBE HOTEl,, J. A. H ·01JCK, Proprietor. now under the direction of the Association. Rooms especially reserved for Ladies. Cor. State and Peari,Sts., ALBANY, N. }. Open from 7 A. K. to IO P. M. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner, 25c. Rooms. Pnces Moderate. Pleasant BOSTON ONE-PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE, 320 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A fine line of Ready-Made Clothing and Gents' Fur- nishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WO'RK A SPECIALTY. --GO TO-- L T. CLUTE'S, 227 State Street, e FOR THE CO:RRECl' STYLES IN · ~!=======HATS.=======-·~ Also a full line o.f Trunks, Bags, Glo'lJes, {hnbrel- · !as, &c.~ &c.~. Agent for DuNLAF CELEBRATED HAT. Terms: $2.00 per day. B ARHYTE & ]JRCH, WHOLES.AL]LAND RETAIL DEALERS IN COAL AND WOOD, Lime, Ce11zent, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grai\! Baled Hay and Straw, and Fertilizers, 306,. 808 and 310 UNION S'l'BE.ET, l SCHENECTADy N Y 209 and 211 DoeR STREET, S · ' • • ]. • H. DEVINE, . Sole Agent for Stacy, Adams & Co. Gentlemen's Finest Foot-Wear Elegant Walking Sho-es, and Evening Full Dress Shoes. Sole agent for Edwin C. Burt,. Ladies'·Fine Foot-Wear. DEVINE, cor. State & :N. Pearl Sts., ALBANY, N.Y. 11fail m~de'J\S ::Promptly attended to.

HE* ONCORDIENSIS -----~~--~ VoL. XIII UNION COLLEGE, FEBRUARY, r89o No. 5 THE - CoNCORDIE.NSIS. PUBI.;ISHED MONTHLY BY STUDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. BOARD· OF EDITORS: college, to-day requires and iinparts more in the freshman year than the '' forty- niner '' received in his en·tire course. Said a graduate of '5'3 : '·• I ne¥e1· vvrote but one essay in n1v entire course.\ Think of ~ u that, ye seniors who are required to wade EDITOR-[N ... CHIEF : k' B k d\ f +b · : through \ Loo: n1g ac' war · or :~:~ · e F. E .. HAWKES; 'go, ---------·-----·· ' , go' } B. C. LITTLE, 'gr, W. A. McDoNALD, 'gr, HoMER B. WIL~IAMS, ''92, ? L. H. CARRIS, 93, \ AssociATES. : sake of one essay! To the man of literary - LITERAR\Y EDITOR. : tastes in those days the societies were a AssiSTANTS. ' H. T. MosHER, 'go, J. W. FERGUSON, 'gr, G. F. MOSHER, 'g2, E. B. BAKER, 'go,, BusiNEss EDIToR. , necessity. The man in either of the } AssisTANTs. , literary courses who can to-day find time GILLESPIE CLuB EDIToR. : to do his work in one of •these societies is TERMS, 'SINGLE COPIES, $r.5o PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. : lucky. 20 CENTS •. * * * We desire our friends t() send us contributions, items of inter- est and information conce1·ning· Alumni Extra copies can be obtained on ap-plication to Business Man .ager. Subscribers not receivi11g papers pmrnptly will kindly notify Business Manager. • All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIEN· , sis, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. BRANDOW PHIN'TING COMPANY, ALBANY, N. Y. THE recent revival of the Adelphic and Philomathean literary societies, and the universal hope that this revival may be pertnanent and successful, makes the time opportune for answering certain questions usually propounded by a visiting alun1nus. Returning frotn a long absenc€ from college, he learns the lax condition of the literaries, and co1nplainingly, inquires the . cause of the decadence. Were he consist- ent, he \rould also ask why we have ceased to use Dr. Nott's famous old. wood : stoves. They are both somewhat alike · superfluous. The Aecret societies which in his day were largely of a social character, are to-day taking up the literary work. The English course which · in his da.y was the least important in any . STILL again are we under the sad necessity of noticing the death of several prominent alu;rnni. So noticeable has been the deat.h of l' nion graduates of prominence lately, that t1he occurrence has been of general com:ment. Judge John 0. Nott, of Albany (a grandson of Dr. Eliphalet Nott), a man widely kno\f\t·n for his uprightness and ability, is gone. An attendance of more than 3,000 people at his fu.neral showed the esteem in which he was held. Orlow W. Chapn1an, solicitor-general of the United States, more prominent, and not less 1vell beloved for ster 1itlg personal qcalities than Judge Nott, died about the same day ; and :finally has departed. John 0. Taylor, one of the foremost figures in educational matters in ~the country. He was the nephew of John W. '\Taylor also a Union graduate, who was a member of congress for twenty years, and Spealcer of the house of representatives in 1820. The loss of such n1en must serve to ren1ind us of Union's great past, and should serV€ to arouse a resolve that her future sons may be vvortby of such predecessors. ..,

64 THE CONCORDIENSTS. AN ·Ohio ''journalistic\ :tb,·m having, arnong other things, arrived at the conclu- sion that our '' tyrannical coUege faculty '' causes us to '' waS:te Inortaili ti.rne and parental n1oney '' in attempti11g to do too tnuch at college, kindly offers to furnish li~terary productions to down-trodden sen- · iors ·at an expense of $3 to ·$'2 5, according • to the nature of such essay or invective .. They assure the nerve-wasted senior that : their productions always '' win p:rizes '' ' and receive '' favorable press notices,,., , and with a happy appreciation of the .: financial condition of the average senior, 1 kindly state that ·'no money is required : in advance.\ Having subscribed theln- selves '' yours confidentiaHy, '' they ask, • as a slight revvard for their thoughtfulness, that you will hand their circulars to your . classmates in order that they ~may confer . their generous bene_fits upon them also. \Ve are sure that our senio1~s will appre- ciate this suave n1anner of calming eon- • scientions scruples, and will not be back. ward in procuring productior1s by ''two of the most prolific writers of :the age.\ Were it not that they come too high ($25), vve should certainly hurl an in veetive at our tyrannical college facul~ty at our earliest opportunity. * be understood that each man competing is to pour out his whole soul in a single p:ro- duction. Two songs by the same author will be barred. Diluted productioiJs of a single brain are not wanted. One n1onth more remaii1S. Who will earn the $25 aud futur.e fame ·.~· Send in your songs ! T.HE follo,,;ving is from the Rochester Carnpus: \ Union College, according to· the CONCORDIENSIS, feels so badly over the result of the Thanksgiving Day game that she will probably do the ' Harvard Crawl' act.\ Being astounded that our intentions were perceived so easily, we diligently seaTched the 00NCORDIENSIS and have failed to find any statement, direct or indirect, that could possibly lead one to gather the above expressed idea. We can explain the statement of the Oarnpus only upon the hypothesis that it is another exhibition of the amazing acuteness lately characteristic of Rochester men concern- ing foot-ball matters. Union feels so badly over the result that she is aching to get at Rochester again. * * * IN accordauce with the general expec- tation, the president, on February lOth, nominated Charles Ernory Sn1ith, '61, to be envoy extraordinary a11d minister plenipotentiary to Russia. As the matter has been under consideration for sorne time ,there is no doubt of Mr. Smith's ac- ceptance. THE 00NCORDIENSIS board, feeling that neither all the musical nor all the literary ability of U11ion College is resident within itself, has decided ;that greater satis- faction and possibly greater fairness will result if the a ward of iihe prize of $25 for a Union College song is made by others. Accordingly, at our earnest re- quest, the a'vard will be made by the generous donor of the prize. We hope that there is sufficient entel~pr-ise and spirit in college to make the competition a· lively one. The an1ount offe:red is too large to be given for a production other- .· wise than meritorious. Of course it is to He was born in Connecticut ; has been editor of the .Albany E'xpress and Albany Journal, and for some years editor of the Philadelphia Press. The New York Tri- bune says that he is a man of wide culture, a ·writer of pure English, and popular with both the republican and den1ocratic press. The mission is a '' first-class \ one, and is salaried with $17,000.

THE CON·CORDIENSfS. 65 WITHIN a fe\v days an event important to athletics has occtu\rPd-· the formation ·. of the New York State Inter-Collegiate . Foot-ball League. The league err1braces · Union, Rochester, Syracuse and Hamilton. · R. P. I. did not send a request for adn-:tit- tance, but if she so desires, we can see no existing reason that. vvill prevent her, admission.. The formation of this league means that foot- baH, the grandest and . best of college games, will be the sport hereafter. Union has not had the base- ball championship in some tin1e, but we can see no reason for failing to secure the . foot-ball pennant ne:xt year. The recent · election of Mr. Robertson. '91, as n1anager · for next year gives the assurance of faith- ful, enthusiastic and energetic work ; which, combined -vvith our n1agnificent . material,. must bring about not doubtful success. * * ·~ THE subject of our illustration this month is 'Taylor Lewis, LL. D., who was a professor at Union from '47 until his death in '77. He ·wasone of the men vvho served to make Union's name fan1ous .. He was considered one of the best, if not the best, Greek and Biblical scholars the co~ntry has produced. lie was a graduate of the college, being in the class of '21 . with Wm. H. SeVv'\ard and Dr. Hickock, the great Inetaphysician. * * * THERE was a noticeably sn1all percent- age of students present at the Prayer · Day exercises. We cannot understand a neglect like this; it gives a poor impres- sion of out· spirit to the audience present, and is, besides, anything but con1plirnen- tary to the speaker. -X- * * As AN experin1ent vve publish this nu1nber of the OoNCORDIENsrs in a cover of white, printed with garnet ink-the college color. We hope the novelty and attractiveness will justify the change. THE a:rn bition of our printer to remodel the Greek language, and carelessness in our proof-reading-· not a mistake in copy- \Vas the cause of a few mistakes in one of out .. liteTary articles last 11un1ber. PAT:RONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. Sources of Error in the Measurement of Angles. In an angular measuretnents the errors to be expected e-vidently depend upon the quality of the instrument made use of, and area[ together irrespective of the space over wl1,ich the work extends. For if the distance is long, it is only necessary to take into account the connection for re- fraction. 'The 111~ean of all the verniers should invariably be taken, and each angle re- peated a number of times. In this way the errOiiS due to eccentricity and g·radua- tion of the instrument are 1nost nearly destroyed, and those of observation most diminished. 'The object of reading off two verniers placed dian1etrically opposite to each other, is to counteract the effect of eccentricity in the two circular_ plates and the inclina- tion of their axes. The principle of the instrun1 ent requiring that the circles should be concentric with the axes on which tl1ey are n1ade to turn, and with each other ; and the vertical lines through the centres of the axes should coincide. No\v, \\ hatever be the extent of this devia- .tion, its effect is neutralized on the result of the observations depending on the grad- uations of the li n1 b by taking the n1ean of the t\vo Teaclings, for the effect of eccen- tricity is always to increase one such read- ing by exactly the sarne quantity by whic:h it din1inishes the other. Hence, the sun1 of the two readings gives us tvvice the true angle. Or th€ error of ecceut1·icity 1nay also be

I ! I •. I· ' . ' l ) • I 66 THRl OONCORD!ENSIS. eliminated by reversing the telescope and ness, defectiv.e vi~ion, attnospheric india- reading the ang1e backward. tinctness, momentary instrumental de- The error caused by the inclination of rangements due to the want of a firm the axes is small in amount in any case ; bases to support the legs, slips in clamping., it can be perfectly eliminated by the loosening of screws, etc. method of observing in some cases, and in To obviate in a great degree these general its effect may be ma.de imper- errors the principle of repetition is applied. ceptible in the final mean of the measure- •· Let the angle be repeated as many times ment in any angle. as is deemed advisable,. then this angle One should not rest satisfied vvith one · will be affected by the joint errors of aU measurement of the angle, even thus · the observations, but only by the same corrected frorn the error of eccentricity, • constant error of graduation which for the result is liable to ·two other sources · depends on the initial and final readings of error-· that of graduation and that of . alone. observation itself. Now the errors of observation, when To whatever degree of perfection the ' numerous, tend to balance and destroy constriction of geodesic instrurnents n1ay ·· one another ; so that if suffi:ei~ntly Inul- have been brought, it constitutes only an tiplied, their influence will about disap-- approxirnation to geo1netrical accuracy. pear from the result. There remains, A1nong the varied operations of this high then, only the constant error of gradua·- branch of mechanical art none presents tion, which comes to be divided in the greater difficulties than the accurate divi- final result by the number of observations, sion of the circu1nference of a circle · and is therefore diminished by the recipro- turned in metal into 360 equal parts, and cal of the number of readings, of its pos.- these again into smaller subdivisions. sible amount. The attainment of perfect accuracy in this· The abstract beauty and advantage of work has hitherto baffled the utrnost this prinQiple, seems to be counterbalanced stretch of human skill and industry ; 11or in praetice by some unknown cause, if executed could it endure. The ever which probably Inust be sought for in im- varying fluctuations of heat and cold have proper clan1ping and straining of the a te11dency to produce 11ot merely ten1- parts consequent on the action of tang~nt porary and ttansient, but pernlanAnt, un- · screws . compensated changes of forrn in all con- But if the instrument is in perfect ad- siderable masses of those metals which justment, with the-· use of these principles alone a1~e applicable to such use. And an angle may be measured, \vhile not per- then, too, the weight of these plates, how- fectly accurate, yet to such a degree of ac- ever symn1etrically formed, n1ust always curacy as is now possible. be unequally sustained since it is irnpossi- WILLIAM 0. LAY, '91. ble to apply the sustaining power to every part equally; even could this be done, at all events force must be used to Inove and fix them, which can never be done with- out producing tetnporary, and risking pern1anent change of form. 'I'he errors of the second class, called · errors of observation, arise fron1 inexpert- More Specimens. The gift of a collection of specimens by Rev. 0. B. Hitchcock~ '52, noticed in last number, has been increased by another amount of fossils. Some of t~ese are very valuable; arr1ong them are a number of foot- prints of birds.

! .. ! ' , THE OONCORDIENSIS. 67 A Generous Donor. A check for $200' has lJeen received by the college for the purchase of books on · American history. The donor is Lernon Thomson, Esq., ()f Albany, one o,f .the college trustees, and the benefactor of the \Len1o11 Thomson alcove'' in the library. This alcove will be the newest and one of the most valuable portions of the library and is being constantly supplied with books by Yr. Thomson. The Gillespie Club. The Gillespie Club is at present in a n1ost flourishing condition. Meetings are held regularly every two weeks, at which papers on various technical subjects are read and discussed. Several of the lead- ing scientific and engineering journals are taken bv the club and are on file at the o/ rooms. At the beginning of the -present term the men1bership was considerably increased. The foUowing officers were elected : E. B. Baker, president; H. W. Preston, vice- president ; B. C. Little, cor. sec.; G. H. Daley, rec. sec.; ·w. (J. Lay, treas.; W. H. Van Alstyne, curator. . On Prayer Day. Owing to the severe illness of the Rev. . Henry A. Powell, his place as Prayer Day speaker was filled by the Rev. A. 0. Sewall, of Seheneetady, who kindly consented to act, after only two days' notice. This· kindness was greatly appreciated by the audience who listened to his scholarly and forceful address. Mr. Sewall t<?ok, as his subject, ''How shall man be just with God ~\ ''Science, ancient or n1odern philosophy, cannot an- swer the question,\ said the speaker ; \not even natural religion. The perfect answer can come only through revelation. To be just with God we must perfectly obey his · laws as revealed in the Comn1andn1ents. As in natural law, th~ slightest variation spoils the resul~t, so in moral ]a ~r, a de- parture from the broad est. con1prehension of the Divine law, vitiates the whole.\ Mr. Sewall explained son1e of tbe vvays in which we break the Con1n1andn1ents, not overtly, hut unthinkingly. Christ showed that a perfectly ethical life could he lived in this world He alone was just with God. \I bring you not the ethics, hut the essence of Christianity. You can find the ethics in the wise sayings and 1noral precepts of heathen moralists; but the Christ himself you cannot find. I w·a nt to leave this as the answer to my ques- tion : 'To as many as receive him gives he the power to beconJe sons of God.' \ The closest attention was paid to this excellent serrnon. ·The singing was led by the glee club and the scripture lesson was read by President Webster. The Sophomore Ball. Perhaps the pleasantest dance tb at has been given in so1ne tin1e by the students, was the sophotnore soiree, which took place Friday evening, the 24th of last month. ':Che committee who had charge of the arrangements is to be congratulated on its success, and to be commended for their selection of the hall, which \\Vas a great irnprovement in many respects on '' Arcade Hall,'' where the college dances are usually held. The hall ·\vas tastefully decorated with greens, interspersed with plug hats, canes, and othAr like paraphernalia characteristic of Union's sophomores. There were over forty couples present, and the majority of the men pr€sent were undergraduates of the college-a fact which it is hoped will be noted at every succeeding and successful college dance. The comrr1ittee was given in our last number. •

\' - 68 THE · OONCORDIENSTS~ Concerning '' Eli Perkins.\ We are happy to announce that our • next (March) nun1ber will contain a letter : of ren1iniscences by Mel ville D. Landon, , '61 (Eli Perkins). This ren1ind~ us of a ·• pleasing circumstance in connection with · Mr. Landon, and so publish a sample of the :. For whose benefit and use is the library? for the faculty in thP. first place and n1erely by way of condescension for the students, or for both faculty and students upon equal grot~_nds and under the immediate supervision of the librarian ? If the library belongs to the college it see111s to us that the papers, books and pAriodicals belonging to that library are pri~marily for the use of the students who MODERN INTERVIEW. After Eli Perkins had delivered his recent , lecture before the students of Union College, and been dined by President : Webster, the Rational Psychology reporter ·. pay for these advantages V\Then they enter the college, and that the faculty of the coHege have no more right to violate the la vvs governing that library than the students. . of THE CONCORDIENSIS inteJ?Vie,ved the · hun1orist at the depot. It was noticed that JVIr. Perkins, though a geaduate of '61, was well preserved, physically, mor- ally and intellectually. Eying hjs white, regular teeth, our reporter n1odestly re- lnarked: '' It is rernarkable to see teeth so \Vhi te · and well preserved; you 111 ust have taken great care of them, Mr. Perkins!\ \0 no; I've given then1 only ordinary · care.'' '' To keep them white, perhaps you have · always let the cereals predominate in your diet,\ suggested our reporter. '' No ; I have never chosen the silicates. I eat anything; fruit, nuts and even olea- ginous food. I eat any food, hot or cold.\ '\rhen you do nothing to keep then1 vv bite?\ \No nothing; except-well, to teJI you the truth, I do son1eti1nes put then1 in ~\arm water nights.\ A Long Unanswered Query. To the Editors of the Concordiensis : Actuated by an honest desire of self- enlightenJnent, and convinced that in this case the enlightenment of one would be . equally lun1inous to n1any, I Have ven- tured to ask these questions : 'l,o whon1 does the Union College libi~ary belong and who n1akes and executes its laws? If theTe vvere a law prohibiting stnoking in the t·eading alcove of the library, as I think there is, would any professor ven- ture to srnoke there ? I think not. '~'hen if there be a law prohibiting the rernoval of periodicals or books from the library, 1vhy should any professor venture to violate this law or per1nit the members of his fan1ily to violate it? Yet it is con- stantly done. Again and again students, seaTching in vain for one of the peri- odicals, are informed by the librarian that \ i~t is out, one of the.faculty has it.\ If the1~e are certain hours at vvhich the 1ibr·ary is open, why should any men1ber of the facult_y sit within the door ten 1ninutes before the library opens and refuse to open the door to a student de- n1anding admittance, saying : ''I an1 sorry, but if we have 1a-vvs they should be lived up to, and it is against the law for rr1e to let you in.'' It seerns to me that no longer hours or greater privileges should be extended to the faculty than to the students-the professor of the English c1 epartnJ:etTt alone excepted by courtesy to his chair .. N OV\T these ideas of justice and equity may be a little antiquated, but they are put forward vvith all due 1nodesty. Any- one who will kindly answer the above

'· THE OON·OORDIENSIS. 69 questions, and eau establish reasonable ; objections to these ideas of justice, V\ .. ilJ . confer a favor not only upon me,. but also · upon many others vvho will anxiously . await his reply. Let some one answer ' whoean speak \as one having authority,\ and he shall be hailed public, not -- WouLD- BE-BENEFACTOR. To the Alumni. The following circular is addressed ~to the alun1ni by the General Alu1nni Asso- ·· ciation of Union College : .DEAR SIR.: It is the purpose of the General Alumni Association to Inake the coming 0Dn1- mencernent season an occasion of unusual · in_terest, and thus to inaugurate a series of · successful alun1ni reunions leading up to the ~oente11nial Anniversary of the found- ing of the college in 1895. It has long been customary for the De- cennial Classes t.o take the most prorninen·t part in the proceedings of Alun1ni Day, and at the Commencement of 1890 this privilege belongs to the classes of !820 (if any survive), 1830, 1840,. 1850, 1860, 1865, 1870 and 1880. A circular lette1·, enclosing the pro- gran1r11e of Cominencement week, will in · due tilne be Bent to the 'vhole body of liv- ing alumni who can be reached, but it is none too soon for these anniversary classes to get to work and arrange to attend in large numbers their several class reunions and the general alumni rneetings on June 24th. It is therefore earnestly requested that tl1e secretary of each of these classes, or in th.e absence of such officer the Inenl- · bers. thetnsel ves, by correspondence and personal solicitation, make every e:ffoJ·t to secure as large an attendance as possible from their respective classes, and desig- nate in advance two representatives to speak, one at the alumni meeting in the chapel, and the other at the alumni din- ner. · These na1nes should be suggested to the president of the association before the annual meeting. Everything is propitious for a great alumni demonstration in June next. Under the ad1ninistration of President \?\;\\ ebster the college has taken a great for- ward stride. Again the fee,t of the youth are turning in large numbers from all parts of the count.ry toward the good old college, and every\vhere the sons of ''Old ·anion\ are organizing in her hearty sup- port. · At the same tin1e with this circular will be sent you from Schenectady a copy of the last General Alumni Oataiogue, pub- lished in 1884. A nevv catalo:gue is in course of preparation, and it is requested that you forward to Prof. W. Larnoroux, librarian of the college, any corTections in the record of your own or other classes which you see to be necessary. Yours very truly, A. V. V. RAYMOND, President. The Albany Banquet. The sons of ''Old Union\ asse1nbled in force at the Delavan house last ,evening. It was the second annual meeting of the North -eastern New York Alu.mni Associa- tion of Union College·. Alun1ni to the number of 130 sat about handsomely decorated and \Veil laden tables in the large dining roorn shortly after 1 o'clock, and for two hours paid c]ose attention to a fin~ 1nenu.~o The dinner was most enjoy- able, and the hour for. breaking up came too soon. The business meeting tool{ place at 6 o'clck. These officers were then elected : President, James H. McClure, Albany. Vice-President, S. H. Jackson, Sche nectady. Secretary and treasurer, Charles B, Te1npleton, Albany

'70 THE CONOORDIENSI8. tuous applause and the college cb€er, President Webster vvas introduced to respond to the toast of ''Ol.d Union.\ Committee, John E:. Sherwood, Joseph C. Craig, M.D., and William P. Rudd, Albany ; W. Bcot,t Hunter, Schenectady ; the Hon. Samuel Edwards!' Hudson ; · Jas. F. Fea:therstonhaugh, Cohoes; Albert Smith, Troy; E. P. White~ An1sterdam ; ·• John B. Hubbs, Johnstown; Dow Beek- man, .Schoharie_, and the Rev. Lee 1N. Beattie, Cam bridge. President Webster made a speech of his usual excellence, but the reporters being at the farther point in the hall from the speaker, and the clatter of the heels of the waiters and the shifting of chairs of diners, seriously interfered with the pleasure of recording it. The notninating com1uittee was made · up of John A. DeRemer, W. P. Adams and .J..L\.. H. Jackson. The secretary re- ported that three sets of circulars giving information about the college and its' workings had been 1nailecl during the year to the six hundred and over me1nbers . of the association. The college glee club preceded the party as it filed in.to the dining- room. The toastmaster, Dr. Samuel B. Ward, of this city, and the college president, Dr. Harri- son E. \V ebster, carne next, followed by the speakers, the college faculty, a delega- tion fron1 the faculty of the Albany . Medical Ooll8ge, a delegation fron1 the faculty of the Albany Law School, and the college trustees and older graduates. Charles M. Jenkins, '29 ; Willian1 0. McHarg, '42, and Jan1es H. McClure, '52, of this city ; the Rev. Francis B. Hall, '52, Plattsburgh ; Joseph Potter, '41, White- hall, and Earl L. Stin1son, '56, Cohoes. THE BANQUET. The banquet was opened with prayer by the Rev. Lee W. Beattie, '79, of Cam- · bridge. \Yhen the dishes were cleared . away and the smoke from a hundred and 1nore cigars wreathed overhead, the fine · physique and pleasing face of Dr. S. B. Ward appeared above the table. He was the toastmaster. He said that he did not feel competent to fill the place of toast~ master of so important an assemblage. He then told funny stories, the hidden · point of which was known only to the alun1ni of Old Union. Then amid turnul- '~Old Union should not beoo1ne a local college ; it has not been such in the pa8t, it must no;t be so in the future,'' Pr.es](]ent Webster deelared. He then urged 'the necessity of the support the alumni C()'llld give, and urged all to give all they could. When he sat down the assemblage broke into Fitz Hugh Ludlow's ''Old Uni(])n,'' singing it with a virn. Prof. John E. Sherwood of this eity read the le-tters and telegra1ns from It :O. Alexander, vVilliam H. McElroy, Ju,dge Robert Earl, William H. King, of Ohica;go, of the class of '46, and about 12.5 oth€}rs. Dr. Ward used the happy faculty he possesses in introducing each speaker- by prefacing the introduction with a story. Sorne of these, however, VV\ere chestnuts, notably the one about the old man who found the name of but one man in tthe scriptures who drank water. This he g~ve in introducing the Rev. Dr. George \'-L\.lex- ander, who responded to \The Board of Trustees.'' Dr. Alexander's remarks, however, had but little in relation to the subject. The trustees felt that they had performed a great part of their work wbe11 they placed President Webster in -the chair. The trustees have but one thougb.t, and that is to sustain and encourage the president in his work. The college is jn position now to prepare all young men who come to it. In proposing the toast ()f the Medical Departtuent, Dr. Ward said that if he had ever heard a good joke on his profession he would tell it. Several •I

' ; 'rHE, ·OONCORDIENSIS. 'rl ghastly attempts had been 1nade. Dr. • Willia1n Hailes, Jr., was called upon to . respond. ''We have a good president, .· and now we want a good many students,\ said the doctor, after telling a nun1 ber of good stories in which Irish1nen and goats · foTmed the central figures. Irving Browne was called upon to talk . of the '~ Departn1ent of Law.''' Through· the atmosphere thickly charged with · cigar smok.e,, a few of Mr. BrowTie's vvit- . ticisins reached the further end of the roon1. Mr. Browne kept his hearers convulsed with stories frorn his ample . fund. Entertaining responses wer~e made by W. H. Moore to the Alutnni Association . of New York and by the Rev. Dr. A. V. V .. Ra.ymond to the Alun1ni Association of North-eastern New York. The toast1naster also called upon others for imprornptu remarks. All of the speeches were of the brightest class of after-dinner efforts, brin1ful of eloquence, wit and sarcasm. College songs were given with youthful vim. and enthusiasm and the party broke up at midnigh-t. rrhe success of the reunion was largely due to the untiring efforts of Dr. Joseph D. Oraig, PTesident James H. McClure and Principal John E. Sherwood, all of this city.- A1bany Evening Journal, Jan. 29:th. NOTES. The letter of regret sent by the Dean provoked a storm of applause. The Glee Club is an addition to these banquets and should be encouraged. rrhe presence of a renlarkab~y fine orchestra was an enjoyable feature of the banquet. The following men1bers of the senior class attended the Albany banquet : Bennett Mosher, Schwilk, Hawkes, , Clute, Carroll, Wright and Knox. Members of the faculty present were : Professors .l~ ... S. Wright, Brown, T. W. Wright., Ashmore, Wells, Hoffman, Ber- kins, President Webster, Mr. Cole and Mr. Winans. One of the after-dinner .speakers told of a freshn1an, noV\r in college, hailing from that county which bears the na1ne of tlle father of his coun~try, who evidently has peculiar means for arriving at an exact knowledge of his marks. For the speaker, instead of telling the grades got,ten by his protege, stated that he was rnarked 10 in everything excepting alge- bra, and 9. 8 in that. The little tale pTo- voked a smile among the students and faculty now in college. PATRONIZE THOSE WHO PATRONIZE US. The foot-ball team had a picture taken lately. The senior commencement con1mittees have been appointed. Oon1stock has been elected base-ball director in place of Cassidy, resigned. Bennett, '90, was elected as delegate to the Inter-Collegiate Athletic Convention held at Syracuse, January 31st. At the beginnin~ of the second term, the following new men entered college : Aftirn us, '92 ; Crane, '93, Gilbert, '93, Lochner, '93, and .AJlen, '93. The classes for .critical study of Bible subjects n1eets evel'y Wednesday after- noon at 5 o'clock in the English room. They are conducted by Prof. A. 8. Wright. The Adelphic elected the following : President, Baker, '90 ; vice-pre~ident, McDonald, '91 ; tre~surer, Trurnbull, 'H2 ; secretary, Mosher, '92; curator, Van .Alstyne, '93. Prof. Ripton is son1ewhat recovered from his long and severe illness and has been seen on the ca,mpus several tintes. He will not be able -to take his classes this term, however.

72 THE O'ONOORDIENSIS. Dean, '93., and Dougan, '92, have been · appointed on the Glee Club in piace of . Johnson, '90, and Adan1s, '91. 'Prof. Willian1 Rost, '73, win train the club • weekly. Prot Rost is a :popular teacher of • m·usic in Schenectady. Junio1~ Oratorical-Ferguson, Briggs, Olen1~nts and Burr. Sophomore Oratorical-Masher, W enl- ple, ]deserve, l)ougall, Prest and Williams. The general subj~ct of reading for the Veeder is '' Competition versus co-opera- tion.'' The Philomathean Sociliety met in Prof. Hoffman's room on Saturday, Jan. 25t:h.; and elected the following officers : Presi- · dent, BennAt, '90 ; vice-president, Briggs, '91 ; treasurer, Clements, '91 ; se0retar:y, ' Wemple, '92 ·; curator, I1errick, '9:3. Tbe • judicial eotnmittee are ·: Ohief-justic€_, · Carroll, '90 ; associates, Ferguson, '91, and. . Dougall, '92. PURCHASE OlJ' OUR ADVE:RTISERS. Its Origin. Out from the realms of darkness, Out from· 0blivion's night, The cry c01nes : Helen's hair was red, And the wooden horse was white. 'The engineering depar:t1nent is in receipt of a Field Book for the Location of Rai1- road Curves on the Metr·ilic Systetn, by J. McGee, 0. E., of the class of 1868, pub- lished in Buenos Ayres, and of two news- papers fron1 that city c011taining cornpli- mentary notices of the s:tn1e. The publi- cation is a Yaluable one.fol' those countries that use the metric system, and js very full and convenient for field use. The registration for pl'izes too~ ,plac€ February 3d in Prof. Tl'uax's room. By •· new rules the essays are all due June 1st, · and the oratorical compeitition will take place May 3d. The following are lists of the entries: Ingharn-subjects, ''Literary genius of Nathaniel Hawthorne,\ and '' Froude's rank arnong English historians,\ Iviessrs. Carroll, Bennett, Pick-ford, Wright, Hawkes, Knox, Van Voast, Ste\vart, Dean, Johnson. Allen-,the san1e as for fnghan1 prize. Veeder Extetnporaneoas-Meserve, Mc- Donald, Briggs, '91, Ha.wvkes, Lewald,. Lord and McAlpine. Clark-subjects, ''Study Df the style of Washington Irving,\ and ~'Wilkie Collins as a novelist,'' Messrs McDDnald, Briggs, Ferguson and Robertson. Ba11croft, the historian, is the senior alumnus of Harvard. The next New York State field day will be held with Syracuse University. Dr. A. V. V. Ray1nond represented Union as a guest at the recent Yale banquet in Albany. The captains of next year's elevens will be Cumnock of Harvard, Poe of Princton, and Rhodes of Yale~ The Cornell foot-ball association is in debt upward of $700. It cost about $3,000 to run the eleven last season. Prize cotnpetition, class honors, and the 1narking system have been abolished at the University of Michiga11.-Ex. In the Christmas number of the Yale Courant there appears an editorial oppos- ing the formation of a dual league between Yale and Harvard. After the recent exa1ninations at Heidel- berg University, 'Germany, two students are said to have comtnitted suicide on account of failure to pass the examina- tions. · The Hon. Seth Lo,v, of Brookl;yn, was inaugurated president of Columbia Col- lege on Monday, February 3d. President vVebster of Union was among the prom- . I

THE O:QNCORDIEN:SIS. 73 inent in vi ted guests. Two of Columbia's trustees, and men of national prorni- · nence-Bishops J..Ji:tttJejohn and Potter-· • are graduates of Union College. The suggestion to call Yale's new gytn- nasiuln, ''Richards Gytnnasiurn,\ in· l1onor of Prof. Richards, to whon1 most of the credit for the building is due, is n1ee t- ing. with univeesal favor an1ong the students. President Eliot says that Harvard is the • only college fro1n which a professor was · ever taken for president oiE the United . States, John Quincy Adarns having held .· the chair of rhetoric and 01~atory in that institution. 'The Mail and Express is authority for the state1nent that the seniors at Dart- tnouth, in their English course, in place of an exan1ination, are obliged to ,rnake externpore speeches of fifteen tninutes' duration. The speeches are made before the class. The trustees of John's Hopkins recently passed a resolution to the effect that an under-graduate publication was undesir- able, and forbidding the publication of any newspaper by anyone connected with tl1e · institution. The resolution was called . forth by a recent effort to start an under- · graduate paper. A silver cup bas been offered by an alun'lnus of Lehigh UniveTsity, as a tro- phy of the foot-ball championship of Pennsylvania) to be contested for by Lehigh, ~afayette, and the University of Pe11nsylvania. The cup becomes the property of the college 'vhich shall win the cha1npionship three successive titnes. The cotntnittee on foot-ball, at the Uni- versity of PennsylVania, in its report to the Athletic Association, gives the record of foot-ball gan1es during the past season. : Of the thirteen games played, the college team has won seven and lost six. They have scored 198 points while their oppo- nentS~ have made a hundred and sixty-five. What the teatn has to be proud of, how- ever, is their score against Ya1e, 10-20, the best ruEtJde for many years. \Yes replied the doc:tor, \~there is a gl'and picture of my bel:oved departed friend, Dr. 'Theodore Dwight Woolsey. Yonder Df. F. A. P. Barnard,, president till lately ·Of Columbia, a graduate of Yale, and over there, again, one of the grandest men that ever lived, Dr. Elipha1et N ott, of Union, who also can1e fro:rn Yale.\-· Univer si.ty. The Harvard faculty ha_ve recently decided upon a plan whereby an academic students may take the full course in three years instead of four, as at present. Stu- dents in the four yeaes' course are now obliged to take four and a half eourses per week, while under the new arrangen1ent six courses pee week vvill be required. It is clai rned that under the ne\v plan a year's tin1e and from $600 to :$)1, 000 n1ay be saved. The Eev. Dr. EbenezeT Dodge, LL. D., president of Colgate, fortnerly Madison, University, died at Ha~milton, N. Y., January 5th, of peritonitis, after an illness of less than three clays. Dr. Dodge was born at Saletn, Mass., April 22, 1819. He ,_ was graduated at Brown University in 1840 and at Newton Theological Seminary in 18-1-5. He was pastor of Baptist chut~ches in Ne-vv Han1pton and New Lond()n, N. H.~ fron1 1846 to 1853. Froin that tirne to 1861 he was professor of Biblical criticisn1 and interpretation in the Hamilton Theological Setninary. At the same time he held the chair of Evidences of Christianity in Madison University. Fron1. 1861 to 1868 he vvas professor of Christian Theology in the seminary. In 1868 he was called to the presidency of the university, made vacant by the death of the Rev. Dr. G. W. Eaton, LL. D.

' I 74 ·THE OONCO·RDIENS1S.. Is this ''I'rue P The Lehigh University team won eight and tied three of the thirtee:n games played this season. Both Le1bigh and Cornell claim fourth place in foot-ball.- • Ex. . , / .Judge John C. Nott. v'56. Ju.<ilge John 0. Nott, of Albany,. died in that city on January 11, 1890. He vvas a grandson of Dr. Eliphalet Nott. He graduat€d from Union college in 1856. He studied law and was adn1itted to the bar in 18 6:3!. He practiced about ten years, was ~hen elected police magistrate, and after B~rving three tern1s was elected county judge in 1883. He was famous as Dartmouth and We:s:Ieyan would contest . Lehigh's claim. No body wou~d :adn1it · Cornell's. '4'7. Frank ..A. Paddock, a lawyer of . a just and impartial man. The regret at Glens Falls, has just died at th€ age· of ·his d~ath ·was \videspread, and men1orial six.ty-two of paralysis. Mr. Paddock was rneetings of n1any organizations were a graduate of Union ~Oollege of the class. held to take: action. He was born August of forty -seven. He was one of the 15' 1836, in the town of ·Guilderland. earliest members of the Union league •· His father was Benjamin Nott, who was club, and at the tin1e·of his death was a for nJan_y years judge of the old court of member of the comFuittee on political . common pl'eas in Albany county. His refor1n. He was also a n1embe 1 • of the mother was. Elizabeth Cooper, a vvoman bar association.. and chairman of its . of strong dbaracter and great vYorth. He judicial corn.mittee. He was a <I> B. K. was a man t>f unquestioned integrity and recognized legal ability . . Dr. John Orville Taylor. '30. Dr. John 0. Taylor died in New Brunswick, N. J., Jan. 17, 1890. He was born in Charlton, Saratoga county, N. ·y. He graduated from Union College in 1830. He taught school in Philadelphia and becarne prominent in educational reform. He lectured for 15 years on the improve- · 1nent of the common school system. In 1837 he induced the [egislature of this state to pass a law establishing school libraries. He was at one time professor of popular education in the University of the city of Nevv York. At one time he lec- tured at the invitation of congress in the house of represen tativ:es. He was a re- cognized authority on educational subject~, and \Vas the author of many well known books upon such subjects. Dr .. Taylor was a nephew of John W .. Taylor, also a· graduate of Union, and famous as a member of congress for 20 years, and who was speaker of the house of representa- tives in 1820. O:rlO<w W. Chapman Dead. THE SOLICITO.R-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES- A H'IGHLY vALUED MAN. '54. ·Or low l~. Chapman, solicitor-general of the U nit.e<l States, died suddenly at his residence in Washington J aiJ uary 1!1th. The cause was an affection of the kidneys, aggravated by an attack of the grip. He had been daugerously ill only 24 hours. He was born jn Connecticut in 1832, · and graduated at Union OollegA in 1854. In 1856 he began the study of Jaw with Judge Amasa J. Parker, another farnous Union grad11ate. He had since resided ~t Binghan1ton. ~e was always a repub- lican. Jie served In the state senate fFom 1868 to 1872.. He was superintendent of the insurance department fro1n 1872 to 187~. As the solicitor-general is the legal adviser of. t~e. government, his position was not Inferior to that. of a cabinet officer. Mr. :CJhapman was highly valued by Attorney ·General Miller. (He was a genial, co~1rteous man, of thorough cul- ture-. a w1dely traveled Inan, and said to be a delightf11l cornpanion.J I I .

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 75 The Uni11,.ersity, published 15y the Uni-- versity Print of New York cit,y, has just issued a magnificent January number, containing a large portrait of Prin ce:ton';s . champion team, and fourteen large cuts of rooms and prominent men belonging to the well-known University Olub of New . York. Fr()n'l this number we gratefully clip the followi\1g ·: '' The OoNOORDIENSIS, the brigh,t and en- terprising publication of Union College, has offered a prize of twenty-five dollars for the best college song, subn1itted by any under-graduate. Its object is to stimulate the writing of new songs, and .· so n1aintain the musical reputation of a · college which has produced John Ho,vard Payne and Fitzhugh Ludlow. ·The sue- . cessful song, with the music, wiU be pub- . lished in the March nu1nber, of the CoN- · CORDIENSIS.\ Outing for February is a very good number and is filled with articles of ster- ling value. Atnong the more important · ones we n()tice Fishing for Tarpon, by 0. A. Mygatt, richly illustrated ; The Sette;e, a most valuable paper by Edwin H. Morris, illustrated with portraits of fine dogs ; Wintering in California, by 0. H. Shinn, which pleasantly describes Cali- fornia and its advantages as aJ winter· health resort, and a place for sportsrnen. This article is fully illustrated. Other ·articles are Brant Shooting on the Atlantic Coast, by Alexander Hunter, the New York Cyclists Meet, The College Foot-ball Ohan1pionship, Fencing for Women, To- bogganing, and Russian Field Sports. The serial, Flycatcher, by Capt. Hawley Sn1art, is continued, and increases in interest. Longing, and My Gift are poems of much merit. The Editor's Open Win- dow is unusually replete with interesting comments on topics of the day. Alto- gether the February Outing is a number well worth a careful perusal. :Richmond Straight-Cut ,No. I Clgarettes. C . J:GARETTE s.mokers w:ho are willing to pay a Httle more than the price charged for the ordin- ary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND superior to an others. The Ri~hm:ond Straigllt-Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This i·s the Old a.n' d Original Brand of Stniight-Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year 1875· Beware of imitations and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, Manufacturers, RICHMOND, VA. Prof. Loisette's E DRY DISCOVERY AND T'RAINING METHOD In spite of adulterated imitatiOns which miss the tbeory, and practical results of the Original, in spite of the grossest misrepresentations by envious would-be competitors, and in spite of ''base attempts to rob\ him of tlie fruit of his labors, (all of which demonstrate the ~~~l.uE~s'!t~~Paei~t~l ~~~e~ 0 8~~;~\ln~ ~sr~~~~~~a to-day in both HemisQheres as marking an Epoch in Memory Culture. His Prospectus (sent post free) gives opinions of people in all parts of the globe who have act- ually studied liis System by .corres}}ondence, showing that his System is used ontv while being studied, not afterwards; that anv booM cun be lea'rned in a .~inole readino, m~nd-wanderino. cured, &c. For Prospectus., Terms and 'l'estimonials address Prof. A. LOISETTE, 237 Fifth Avenue, N. Y PROCTOR'S THEATRE, ALBANY, N.Y. Qmy fi~t~$113• turaa&iamJ. Pric~s, $I, 7 sc., soc., and 35c. Tie only Theatre in A:tbany Playing the Best Attractions.

.ADVER'TISEMENTS. E LEG~NT .. AN~ u~.EFl!.L ~?ODS. Our assortment includes a fulHineof $il \?et ==:~late~ 'Umare, Elegant La~:nps, China, Fancy Glassware and Novelties in great • · variety. Many other attraetions too numerous to mention--COME. S. B. :r ~~ES, ::IN.:ea.nager, Y. M. C. A. ~uilding., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. , Printing. MENUS. PROGRAMS. INVlTATIO~S. VISIT1NG CARDS. NOTE HEADS. ENVELOPEf\. En·graving. Brandow Printing Company, I 5 N or':th Pearl Street, Albany, N.Y .. WOOD BROS., JOHN L. BURGESS, 255 State Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. • Manufacturer of SHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CUFFS. w=Good.s reoel. \V'\ed. for ':C'roy La.und.:ry- _ --·------------------------------------ DR. 0. J. GROSS, ~·=======DE f1 TIS T ,-----'·~ OFFICE HOURS FROM 9 A. M. TO 4 P. M. r 56 Jay Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. A.M. POWERS, I SOJ~ID GOLD JEWELRY FRATERNITY PINS, BADGES AND MEDALS, No. 12 PLAIN ST., up-stairs, Al ... BANY, N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, ~bavin9 and Hair Bressin9 j@) arbrs, OPPOSITE GIVENS' HOTEL, (UP STAinS.) DE LONG'S Ladi,es' and GenUemen's Dining Rooms, I02, I04 mzd ro6 Wall Stnet. No. 4Z9 State St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Catering for Balls, Parties, Banquets, &c. z IMMER & KINGMAN, (ioer~, 9 ale ana ~fr~anl't ,Stables, I.JO, IJ2 and I34 CENTRE STREB T. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice. Telephone Connection. s • E. MILLER, JR., MEN'S OUTFITTER, Neckwear, UnderwtJar, Hosiery, Gloves, &c. Jerseys, Tennis Shirts, Fancy Flannel Shirts, Tennis Suits, and Bicycle Goods. FI.NE SHIRTS TO ORDER. 34 a;zd 36 MAIDEN LANE, AL.BANY. I . ; ' ;·,

i '' ADVERTISEMENTS. THE GENTLEMEN SMOKE HIGH-CLASS . ·. CIGARETTES. Club, Opera and PYitzce of Wales for Gentlemen, ,and Bou- doir size for Ladies, SWEET CAPORAL, NEvV YORK STANDARD, THE S'J)ANDARD OF THE WORLD. FINE CONFECTIONS, BON BONS AND CHOCOLATES. A !so fine lilt~(}/ Fancy ·Goods at~ci~i~.o,nbonieres. ~··,. -~ 35 NORTH PEARL STREET, · ·,.M~t~ANY, N. Y. Branch 863 Broadway.' B. DEKL YN, Manager. EDWARD s. BRIGNALL, BOOTS a1~d SHOES~, UNION HALL STORE. 'flli8»The most ct?mplete line and latest styles. THE WINDSOR Restaurant, ll:o~;~FR·EI: ~~i_c~o. 00. tietJI ~.watc~h in the wot·Id. ·Perfect ..... ,,A.,,,...,_~c. W:arrantedheavy. GOLD hunting cases. ·ladies' and gent's sizes, . works and cases of ~Arn1a1· value. ON•E PERSON in locality can secure one together with our large ........ ,., · .• .,Une ofHouseheld ... ~••ny••- • These :samples, as well . · as the are f\l•ee~ AH the work you need do is to ~how what we send you to those wl10 caB-your friends and neighbors and those about you-tbatalways results in valuable trade fo1· us, which holds for years when once started, and t.1us we are -repaid. We .pay a:ll express, freight, etc. After you know all; if you would like to go -to work for us. vou can earnfrom 8~0 to $60 per week and upwards .. Addre11s 9 Stinson.& Co., Box 81~, Portland, Maine. pHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPUES of all kinds For Professionals and A11ateurs. FULL· LINES OF LEADING 'M.AK.ES OF Cameras, Dry Plates and Card Stock, AT THE LOWEST MARKET PRl'CES. DARK ROOM FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS. J. N. McDONN.AL:D, Opposite Delavan House. 582 Broadway, ALBANY. N.Y. F ALL AND WINTER CLOTHING. COLLEGE BOYS' HEADQUARTERS FOR .FINE CUSTOM AND READY•MADE AT THE LOWEST CONSISTENT PRICES. .Fifth Avenue Cutter, Desig·1zs the very Latest. JAMES H .• CROSS & CO., Broadway, cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. TEACHERS WANTED ., I Eight Principals, Eleven Assistants, and a number for Music, also Art and Special6es. Send stamp for application form and circulars of in formation to NATIONAL SCHOOL SUPPLY BUREAU, Mention this paper .. CHICAGO, ILL. HATHAWAY'S Livery Stable, 304 CLINTOIS' Sr. CHAS. FAIRFIELD, Proprietor. Single and Double Rigs furnished on Short Notice .. 31 and 33 Maiden Lane, ALBANY. Depot G'ctlls a Specialty. Telejlzone Connection.

I I I I I I i I ADVERTISEMENTS. TROJAN STEAM LAUNDR¥, .1r5 SOUTH CENTRE STRZ!Jb:T. The undersigned has had eleven years' •experience in / the Laundry business in Troy, ancl the produc- tion of this Laundry is second to none. ALL WORK GUANANTJE71.D. CHAS. N. YATES, I.J6 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Equal it~ every respect to Troy l-Vork. ·Gi'Ve us a trial. ' Beds, Chairs,. Mattresses and all articles pertaining to furnishing students' rooms. • EMMOTT HOWD, Proprietor. •· ~Goons DELIVERED FREE. A. BROWN & SON, !EST.A:BLISHED 1829. • UPHOLSTERERS llND fURNITURE DEUERS, 302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY,, N. Y. icLARKE, CATERER -To- · c HAS. BOLTZMANN, · \]li\\thieJP aq~:lldi flif!PceibaRD1 y~i a~]111\~lri \t.._v ,.._, __ ,. ~\'\\\'-... JJq __ ~---\\' ...... :w ~ ~-l~t..' - Nos. 20I and2o3 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Peifect F£t and Good Work Guaranteed. -:- -:- BELLER'S :tBiUiar~ ~arlors. i EIGHT COLLENDER TABLES-FIRST- CLASS I WEDDINGS, BANQUETS AN.D.RAJ?T.IES, BAR ATTACHED. 49 Hudson Avenue, ALBANY,. N. Y. THE FINEST CHOCOLATES, :BONBONS AND CONFECTIQN:E'RY made fresh daily. Also the largest assprtvzent of .Fancy Cakes foy Parties or Suppers i1z the city, marlt: at short 11otice. BAKERS, SCHERMERHORN & CO., 112 WALL :STREET, 481 STAT.E S':FREE'l 1 ; R. K. QUAYLE, ALBANY, N. Y. WEDDING AND COLLEGE INVITATIONS, <:AR.DS, MONOGRAMS. I C. A.f ;; BELLER, PROP. Cor. State and Center Sts., Schenectady, N .. Y. HARMAN CONSAUL, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in :Ill oots, S~ots anb t!tubbtrs, 26o State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DAVIS, MEIWHANT tAILOR, 01iginal Desig1zs when Desired. I i 237 STATE STREET, SCHENECTA.DY, H. Y.

AD VER'TlSEMENTS. J . V. VROOMJ\N & SON, --DEALERS IN-- H(\rd\k'~re Stoves, iinmr(\re., EsTABLISHED x8s4- PLUMBING, STEAM AND HoT AIR FuRNACES. All Plumbing-, Steam and Gas Fitting Promptly Attemled t0. IJ8 and I40 Stale St., SCHENECTADY. WE ALWAYS SELL Coal, Wood, And Best Patent ·Flour AT LOWEST MARKET PRICE. VAN SLYCK & GARNSEY, 17 and 19 South Centre S:t. L A. YOUNG, • PIANOS, 0ROANS., .AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE GENERALLY. Domestic and other Family Sewing Machines. ARCADE BLOCK,. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. KEELER'S -i 1botel an~ 1Restauratlt, 1-- 26 ana 28 Maiden Lane, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. V. K lNG, THE TAILOR --AND-- MEN'S~ OUJFITTER, .. No. 303 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. · ETC RINGS, ·.::;. ENGRAVINGS, .. • tl$1~ MAI(R~I:Al~ · W 'T. HANSON .& CO., • 335 STATE STI?EET. JDruggtstl3 an~ t(potbecartes. FINE CIGARS A SPECIALTY. PROPRIETORS oF HANSON's MAGIC CoRN SALVR. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TOI:LE'l' ARTICLES.- -DRUGGISTS' SU>NDRIES. LEVI CASE & co., t~I~tr, jraaa and ''ul jrt~R fwrb, S'fiEAM, HOT WATER, AND FURNACE HEATING A SPEC[ALTY. E. c. HARTLEY, DE.A.LER IN .I m,{>orted and Domestic Cigars, Tobacco, Confec- tionery, &c. Firtt:? .B-utter a Specialty. 6or and 6o3 Union Stred. Grain Threshen. unequaled In capacity tor.sep- arating and cleaning. Combined Grq.in and Clover Threshers fully e.qual to regular grain machines on grain, and a g~nuine Clover Huller 1n addition. Two Speed Traction and Plain Enclnes. 4to J5 Horse Power, positively the most desirable for Lightness, Economy, Power and Safety. Boiler ha~ horizontal tubes, and Is therefore free from tll.o oQ.J_ectlonable features of vertical boilers. Horse Powers 1 both Lever and Endless ChaiD. Allslzes. Send tor catalogue. Address , ~ THE WESTIN&HOUSE CO., Schenectady, N~l.

l I \1 ' I ! I J ' . I I I i I I I l l I I I ·I . i I I 1 ; I I I ; I ; _4DVERTISEMENTS. THE EDISON MACHINE fVORKS . . ' SCHENECTA:DY, N. Y. Sprague Electric Motors, Edison Underground Conductors. INSULATED WIRE AND CABLES, SHAFTING PULLEYS -AND- EDISON ELECTRIC LIGHT MACHINERY. sCHENECTADY STEAM lAUNDRY AND BONNET BLEACHERY. THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 67 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. DESTTel- . . One of\ the F·a·EE escopes i 11 . • the w-ot•ld. Our facilitiesare unequal~d, and to introduce our superior goods we will sendFREE toONE PERSON in eacb ~Jcality, as above Only those who write to us at once can make sut·e of the chnnce All you have to do m return is t() show our goods to those who call-yoUl· neighbors and those around you. 'l'he be- ginning of this adve1·tisement shows the small end of the tele- 1cope. The following cut gives the appearance of it reduced to a-bout the fiftieth part of its•bulk. It is a grand, double size tele- Bcope, as large as is easy to cat·ry We will also show you how ;rou can make from $3 to S t•• a day at least, from the start, wu h- out experience. Better write at once. We pay all express·charg1•s. A.ddress,H. HALLETT& CQ,, Box 880, PORTLAND, ~1.AINI.L A SUPERB PREMIERE QUALITE 'CIGARETTE. ARTICLE. The standard of purity and excellence. The faultless union of two matchless tobaccos 'Jrevents that dryness of the throat usually produced by smoking other brands. Do not allow prejudice to prevent you from giving this incomparable Cigarette a trial. It is sin1ply perfection, a luxury and not a l()W priced article. Our Vanity Fair and various Smoking Mixtures are the finest for the p1pe. WM. S. KIMBALL & CO., { · I7 First Prize Medals. Rochester, N.Y.

CHAS. G. ELLIS, Pres't. WALTER McQUEEN, Vice-Pres't. .. EDWARD ELLfS,. Treas. ALBERT J. PI!RJN, Supt. SCHENECTADY LOCOMOTIVE WORKS,! SCHENECTADY, N. Y., Locomotives of Standard Design for all Classes of Se-; vice, or jrom Designs /itrnzshed by Railroad Comjatz£e5 .. 1848. · A·NNUAL CAPACITY 300. * ASK RETAILERS 1<J'o FoR ~RELIABLE' TRADE THE .· MARK. ,t-01 ~ou Flannel Shirts, \\<' '1. Lounging Coats, ou : ~ ' ~/ •:. ~f\!VD/0 House Robes, Pa;\a1nas &c . .. :1Jk ~~ 1\fADE ONLY BY THE 1889. ·- ~ . Brokaw Man'fg Co., THE \RELIABLE~£~ LOUNC!NC COAT. NEWBURGH, N. Y. OTHER ~ STYLES. iWilf -iUS liJll9iX ,. Ull W> GL iU&/0:;:: .,.. ...... J ... OSEPH Gl LLOTT 41 S STEEL·· ENS. lHE FAVORITE NUMBERS, 308,404,604,351, AND 'HIS 011!ER SlYI.ES SOLD BY AlL DEALERS tHROlJGUOUT THE. WORLD.~~

ASK FOR THE FAMOUS I I I I I I I I i I . I I . ' . I I I Building ALBANT, N. r. FINEST STORE lN THE UNITED STATES. A SPECIAL NOTE :~tst::n:eN::v:o::: Largest and Finest Stock of Ready-Made Clothing, Hats and Caps, Trunks, Bags and Furnishing Goods in Albany. ~We have a beautiful Custom Department attached, in which will be found a large stock of both Foreign and Domestic Woolens. Best talent and workmanship are employed. When in Albany you are invited to inspect the building and make the store your resting place. T HE stock used in the manufacture of this Cigar is the most expensive of any five-cent Cigar ever put on the market. It is really a ten-cent Cigar for :five cents. Competition di·ove us to it. 3 ANCHOR BRAND E COLLARS, CUFFS and SH.IRTS, -:- They will Outwear two Ordinary Collars. ·:- All Fashionable Styles. For Sale Everywhere. n ~ Ill ~J~~~:~ BANJOS II Q -~ fl ., GUITARS WASHBURN fi/ . . _ BAY STATE 1 We have a complete assortment of these celebrated Banjos and Guitars always in stock and sell them very low, to clubs. 0· . . .· . . . ~ €} 0 Ill ClUETT & SONS. Ill o~~~~=-========F~~~~~======~ REMEMBER, ~ 49 State st., Albany. W · The Price is 5 cents.--- Not I 0 cents.

