. - -~ - ------------ UNION COLLE.GE,.DECEMBER J, r89o. No. 5· =--=-...:.=.....-=:.·-=----=-=-- ---------==========:=;=====~~======~= VoL. XIV. ==---=---=-·.-_-:_-_ ------- -=- =:::::::=:::::::============ TRUE EiLOQUENCE. HE rosy-fingered morning had hurled th-e dismal gloom of night and darkness froro the world. The loud and mighty thun-. ders ceased to shake the poles; contending . lightnings veiled their vivid faces, and furi- ous \vhirlwinds gave their dying groans and back with his finny hand; anon he turned his glance downward to the mundane sphere beneath. With majestic step he turned toward the sparklinK spring and as he walked he rr1oved. He reached the watery p0ol; with thoughtful, piercing eye he looked deep into the babbling wet below; he turned, gave one long, lingering gaze into the azure heaven -lowered his head and took a drink. All hid themselves in the tip end of a lady's was still. thimble. The eagle rose from the mountain UNION '30 ' ' cliff, the dew was yet upon his breast, and as AN ABSTRACT OF THE LAWS OF UNION COLLEGE. his golden wings cut the upper ether, he (Under President Nott, I84o.) glanced his piercing eye and on the mighty I. THINGS REQUIRED OF ALL STUDENTS. mundane ball that rolled majestic beneath I. To return punctually at the opening of his airy course, and with its golden wheels each term, report themselves and pay col- \ that on burning axles turned,\ rolled on lege bill. it\ splendid round, he spied a little mouse. 2. To be present at all college exercises. As lightnings fly from heaven to earth, so 3· To keep order at prayers, recitations, was tbe eagle's course. Full on his strug- etc., and attend diligently to their studies. gling prey his talons he fixed, and as he bore 1 4· To keep their rootns neat and orderly, him onward towards the blue canopy of! and to open their doors at all times to an heaven's vaulted arch, the expiring victim, officer. in all the agonies of .. ~dissolvir g nature, clung .~. To keep a pail or bucket of the kind his tail around the giant leg of his victo · prescribed in roon1. rious foe, anC: squealed - . The lion, too, 6. To attend three recitations daily. had left his den and shook the flea. fron 1 off 7· To prepare parts assigned for Com- his mighty rnane. His roar defied the ocean's groan and mocked the thunder's hoarser . growl. Nature humbled, seemed to crouch beneath his tread. The vales resounded at his approach, and, as be leaped from hill to hill, a bee lit on his tail and stung it to the very core, \vhich made him squat quite, and bite the .very spot in which the bee had run his little sting. And now, aroused by the commotion from his dreamy siesta that scaly monster ofthe deep, the short-limbed croco- dile, crept from his mud-bespattered en- vi.ronments. He gazed on the ait·y nothing- ness above him ; he ~cratched his itching mencement. 8 To be examined after any absence from college of more than one month. g. 'ro leave the key of rootn with the sec- tion officer at the elose of each term. 10. To have their rooms scrubbed and whitewashed at the direction of the Register. I I. To pay for letters on deli very, as neither the College Post-Master nor letter carrier is allowed to trust. II. THINGS PERMITTED. To join any class as a University Student, and on leaving the same to receive a certif- icate of progress in place of a diploma. •

48 THE CONCORDIENSIS. HI. THINGS NOT TO BE DONE WITHOUT PER- MISSION. I. Going more than a mile fron1 college in term time. Io. Going to Rail-Road depot when cars arrive or depart. I 1. Allowing disorder in room, or n1aking disorder within or about college, especiaHy at night. . 2. B~eing absent from prayers, recitation or church, in any instance. 3· Being tardy at same, or withdrawing before the exercises have closed. I 2. Throwing water or other things from . fhe windows or about the buildings-injur- ing the buildings or grounds, &c. 4· Being in town, or at a bouse of re- freshment at night. 5· Being present at any entertainment given either in town or at coUege. 6. Being out of room in study hours or at night. 7· Being absent from examinat,ion. 8. Meeting of a class or society-especi- ally at night. 9· Removing from one room to another, or taking down stove or other fixture. Iq. Retnaining in college during vacation. I I. Using tobacco in any form, of which parents to be informed. I 2. Attending dancing school or shows of any sort. I\3· Going to the city Post-office. IV. THINGS FORBIDDEN. 1. Avowing or propagating infidel prin- ciples. 2. Profaning the Sabbath by noise, ex- cursions from college/ &c. 3· Using profane or obscene language- lewd conduct, &c. 4· Playing at cards, billiards or other un- lawful game. 5· Using intoxicating liquors, or giving entertainments, either in or· out of college. 6. Keeping gunpowder, fire·· arms, or deadly weapons of any kind about the per- son or room. 7· Striking or insulting any person. 8. Combining to resist the government of college. 9· Visiting taverns or groceries, or stand- ing round doors of hotels. I 3· Speaking at Cotnmencement or exhi- bitions any passages not approved. I 4· Joining any secret society. I 5· Carrying light into society halls at night. I6. Attending a bali or festival entertain- ment, at close ofterm. LAWS OF UNION COLLiEGE, Under President Webster, r8go. (Unabridged.) \Do your work, and conduct yourselves like gentlemen .. \ THE GA.RN:ET PRIZE. JN order partly to bring out any latent ~ ability, and partly to add to the success of'92's GARNET, a prize is offered by the Board of Editors. This prize will be $I o . for the best original piece of literary work suitable \\· for GARNET purposes, provided six such ar- ticles are contributed by January I 5, 189r. The Board of Editors are to he the judges, and all articles contributed are to be their property whether deemed worthy of the prize or not. The manner of sending in the ar- ticles will be the same as that of sending in the college prize essays, viz: each article will be accompanied by a sealed envelope beari-ng on the outside a fictitious name, and within a card with the true name of the writer. It is the strong hope of the e4itors that a sufficient number of suitable articles may he handed in to justify the awarding of the prize.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 49 ===================j===================--------·- NO SUN GOES DOWN BUT LIGHTS ANOTHE.:R SKY. Conservation of Forces. They still shine on although we see then1 not- · May for a season, even he forgot. CIENCE affinns,. and proves, beyond a doubt \!!- ' Thoughts, too, have force, electric and intense They flash and burn, yet unconsumed, and hence They too, are indestructable- the Ia \\V Of conservation hat; no break or flaw. Nothing in nature can be blotted out. Oid fonns and Inodes, tnay be exchanged for The light afforded by the shining sun, Is of cotnbustion ever going on. All forces that we feel, conc-eive or know new, May e'en forever disappear frotn vi-ew; Yet though existing fonns ·tnay pass away, Or be resolved, as scientists would say, To their constituent eletnents once rnore Their essence still continues as before. ' All forms are 1nutable and ever change, Taking such shapes as nature's laws arrange; All things tnust yield to law at any cost, Nothing is wasted, thrown away, or lost; But nature is conservative, and hence, For every change, she giYes a recotnpense. The earth her dailv revolution 1nakes ., By which the surface of the world partakes One-half, alternately, of day and night- One-half the sun supplies his flood of light, His genial wannth and fructif:,Ving power Fro1n so-called rising till his setting hour. Meanwhile until his sinking in the west, The other half gain sleep and needful rest. Why then should tnan repine, cotnplain or sigh, \ No sun goes down but lights another sky.\ All forces are but parts of one great w·hole, All are correlative, and law the soul. So rnental powers, and forces of all 111en, Though we tnay never see their fonns again, Which ever changeful, yield t_o death's decay- Their forces are not lost, nor pass away; As intellectual suns they still shine on, Each to his powers in due proportion, In full meridian light, another sky- For mental powers and force can never die, But will continue for all future titne, To light the heavens, in their course sublime- As emanations of the soul and heart Men's thoughts, as deeds, are of thernselves a part; Thoughts heing sotnething, cannot be destroyed But live forever as at first etnployed, ' If an~lyzed~ but from cotnbustion flow. What need we further inference or truth, That correlation stands as law in sooth? All forces are correlative, or sam,e, As well conservative in fact and na1ne. Hence 'tis no paradox, as said before, ''What has been, is, and shaH be evennore.\ What greater proof could Nature, then, supply- '~ No sun goes down but lights another sky.\ Can we no sage conclusions, then deduce, That well may serve us for our future use? Of all the rnillions that now live and breathe, None are so poor but tnay, and must bequeathe Son1ething to future time for good or ill- ' The light each leaves behind, will shine on still. JYian rules supre1ne o'er all created kind ' The crowning glory of tnankind is mind. Mind 1nakes the tnan, the lack of it the fool ' He who thinks not, is but a slave and tool ~ ~ The march of mind is onward, to be free, Its banner floats o'er every land and sea, Inscribed in light, upon its folds unfurled_ \ Freedotn to all\- its empire is the world! Each one, for his own self, tnust so elect ' And choose what see1neth best in this respect ; . They who choose well, and steadily pursue, Will never fail to reach the good and true, So think and act, that when your race is run, You 1nay receive the tneed of praise \well done.\ Ever retneinbering, what you do, or try, \No sun goes down but lights another sky.\ E. D. HELM, 'so. ----- THE Christian faith is a grand Cathedral w~~h divinely pictured windows. Standing :VIth~ut you see no. glor~, ~or can possibly 1~ag1ne any; standing Within, every ray of hght reveals a harmony of unspeakable s pie n do r. -Hawthortze.

·I . I 50 THE CONCORDIENSIS. --- ·===~==== PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY BY STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. B. c. LITTLE, '9!' W. A. l\fc DoNALD, '91., ,) HoMER B. WILLIAMS, 'gz, r E. J. PREST, '92, - L. H. CARRIS, '93, } J. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FKRGUSO~, '91, G. F. MosHER, '92, t H. D. MERCHANT, '93, ~ EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. ' AssociATES. LITERARY EDITOR. AssiSTANTS. BusiNESS MANAGER. AssiSTANTS. TERMS, SINGLE CoPH~:s, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 15 CENTS. We desire our friends to send us conttibutions, items of interest and information coHcerning Alumni. Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. -----=--~ -_ - -~~~--~=-- ~- -- ·_ ::__-=::-_:___=_--:: --=-: -- --=-- --~ -~-~ ___ -_ - -=---- Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenectady, N.Y. edly weak in original student matter. There- fore with the greatest of hopes that the literary talent lying dormant in the u9der- graduates will receive a new and much needed impetus, THE CoNCONDIENSIS offers the following prizes,: . To the student who shall write the greatest number of accepted sht rt stories for THE CONCORDlENSIS during the present College year, $20 will be given. To the student who shall wr:ite the great est number of accep~ed short poems or \skits\ $I 5 will he given. To the student who shall write the grea~test number of accepted articles, not belonging to eith.er of the above classes, as for example essays on leading topics of the day, or perhaps, discussions of subjects especially interesting to the under- graduates, $I 5 will be given. By'' accepted article\ is meant, any article ~vhich is printed and appears in THE CoNCORDIENSIS. The contest will close on the first day of June, I 8gr, and the winners' names will appear in the following issue of this paper. No man should hesitate to try for one or all of these prizes. It can do you no harm to try and it most certainly wil:l do you some, if not con- siderable, good.· Another thing, don't keep !JUtting this matter off too long; heg.in now and enter this literary struggle abreast with the ·other contestants. Already several of the students have written different articles for THE CoNCORDIENSTS, but of course these articles will not be counted in the awarding of the prizes, as they were written previous to the announcement of the prize· offer. Address all communications to Box 213, City, 1 GAIN THE CoNCORDIENSIS sets before its -~~ readers an offer of a new prize, or rather of a set of prizes. But before giving the statements of these prizes, it would perhaps be well to state the cause for their appear- ance. The editors of this magazine realize that their paper receives its best support from the students and therefore think that the paper should be made more especially interesting to those supporters. Now we must find a way to bring about this result. We believe that there is one .excellent way to do this, viz: To induce the students to take a more active share in the workings of THE CoNCORDIENSIS. If the undergraduates of the College preceive that each issueofTHE CoNCORDIENSIS contains a certain number of contributions from their own pens, surely the paper will become more interesting to them, and moreover a ,g-reat improvement will thus be made, for THE CoNCORDIENSIS is undoubt- · · and if you don't wish to have your own name appear in I'HE CoNCORDIENSIS, sign some fictitious name to your articile, in addition to your own name. * * * THE foot ball pennant is ours! We have \VOn the championship! There is now no need of asking, \What's the matter with Union's foot ball team ?\ We know that the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 51 team is all right and we are proud pf the men ·. for the interests of the 'Varsity they h. ave composing that team. Gladly and gratefully, • gone on playing and have given the '\'\arsity trying to express our thanks, we pass along just that practice which was so much needed, Union's plucky rush line and shake each and which has told so well in the league n1an's hand, stoppi'ng a moment at the centre gan1es. All honor to the second eleven! to give an extra squeeze to our captain's good But now have we finished with our praises? right hand, and then on to the quarter-back. I-Iave we thanked everybody to whom thanks With: a smile he welcomes us and as we grasp · are due? Not by a good deal. Let us his hand, we think of how well that hand has. hasten over to South College, and, entering performed its duty of passing the ball quic'~ly • north section, and mounting two flights of and surely. Yes, faithfully and earnestly has : stairs., stand before the door of room 42 and the quarter-back helped his team on to vic- give the loudest kind of aU nion yell forT. H. tory. With our hearts full of gratitude, we Robertson, the manager of our Champion turn to the two half-backs. The Junior and foot ball team. He is the one, who, most of the Freshman-nobly have they worked all, deserves our thanks. With pluck, per- together, and often, very often, has each one severance and the hardest kind of work, he with the ball hugged close to his side, and has managed to bring forth a victorious team, running low and fast, gained, at once, his when, at the beginning of the season, the five yards, glory for Old Union, and applause prospects for such were far from favorable. for himself. As we are talking with the half- Tb rough troubles which no one but he him- backs, the 'Varsity full-back steps up and self realizes, he has stood by his team, and receives his share of praise, and well .merited now at last he sees his efforts crowned with praise it is. Many a time using his head and triutnph, and is correspondingly happy, and his foot at the same time, has he sent that we, with all our heart, rejoice with him. old leather bail just where it should go-well Once again in the na.me of Old Union, we down the field towards his opponent's goal. thank the members of the team and their Yes, each and every man. on the team deserves our praise. But who is that stand- ing over there, watching our victorious team with a ]ook of pride and gratification in his eyes? Can it be that we have forgotten \Billy our trainer, even for a moment? Come w1th us while we express our thanks to him for the way he has trained and taken care of our foot ball men. With a twinkle in his eye he listens to us and then remarks: \Why I knew we were 'jn it.' We played foot ball.'' Yes, \Billy\ we did play foot ball but it was you who taught us how to play. the fine points of that satne game of foot ball. And now a word for those who, day after day, · have come out on the campus and lined up against the 'Varsity in the practice games. Many hard knocks and not much praise have · they received, yet with never a thought but manager, \ Bob.\ * * * IT rs with much hesitation that vve reply in any way to certain articles that appeared in the last issue of the RoCHESTER CAMPus. We hesitate because we believe that the sentiments expressed in those articles are not at all the sentiments or feelings of the Rochester University students, but merely the statements of one or two men, written by them probably when they were in a highly excited state of ·mind. Still the paper is supposed to represent the students and there- fore we feel as though some cotnments fron1 us are necessary. We cannot and will not reply to these articles in the same sort of language which the editor of the Ca1npus uses, for we have too much respect for THE CoNCORDIENsrs. In regard to the charges,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. - =· ===:._:== ntunerous and varied, which the Campus . magazine,,published by the students of Union makes against the students of Union.·College · College, and when that time does come the and indeed against the College itself, a few · magazine will he warmly welcomed hy THE words will suffice. The·charges .are, to speak · CoNCORDIENSIS. * •x- IT rs gratifying to see the Glee Club re-- very,. very n1ildly, incorrect, exaggerated, unfounded. Further than this we have nothing to say, for we know that to enter int:o a more con1plete discussion oftnis matter would be distasteful to every gentleman · enrolled among the students .of both H.oches:ter University and Union iCollege. * * * organize, for the year, so auspiciously as it has this fall. The manager states that there are now twenty-one applicants for :positions, and the n1aterial so good that he hopes to secure fifteen or sixteen competent voices. Prof. Wm. F Rost, who directed the· club THE '' ab:--tract\ of the Laws of Union I last year, will continue his instructions this College in another column, repri.l!!ted. from a · year,. meeting the club at least once a week, venerable leaflet sent us by an oil:d alumnus, and if, under his instructions, the improve- is interesting chiefly as illustirating, the .m.ent is not marked, it will be the fault of the changes in the ''paternal system\ of college m,en themselves. government, to which both President Nott Too often has it been the result of insuf- and President Webster are on record as ficient practice that Union has not bee·n rep- favoring. The \abstract'' is apparently a resented by her organizations as w~ll as she condensation of a more elaborate code of sta- should be, and in order to obviate this, the tutes, printed as a Vade 1necum for the stu- manager has adopted the scheme of recording dents of a half century ago. the attendance of the men at rehearsals, and * * IN THIS issue of THE CoNCORDIENSIS, the literary matter appearing is considerably less in amount than is usually the ease. This is on account of the large amount of local col- lege news which is presented. It is believed that the appearance of a great deal of college news in the columns of this paper will excite more interest among both the .alumni and undergraduates tban would the appearance of a less an1oun t of college news and a corres- ponding increase in the stdctly literary de- partment of the paper. THE ~ONCORDIENSIS is, under present circumstances; obliged to do its best towards filling the difficult posi- tion of being both a college literary magazine and a college newspaper ; but as ~ong as the present managetnent continues, articles con- tainiLlg college news will always be given the preference over articles known especially as literary articles. The time w.iU soon come perhaps, for the appearance 6f a literary · when the time comes for picking out a Double Quartette, to attend the New York Alumni banquet, those who have been the most regular in their attendance, and faithful in their work, will secure the positions. THE CoNCORDIENSIS has always advocated this scheme, and now that there are so n1any applicants, with voices so nearly equal in quality, as to make the r.ompetition sqarp, \Ve hope to see no man appointed, however good his voice may be, who is not regular in his attendance at rehearsals. FOOT BALL. :UNION 16. HAMILTON 5· The last foot ball game on the campus for the season was played on Monday, Novem- ber 24, when the Union team met and de- feated the Hamilton College foot ball tean1. This game was to have been played Novem- ber I 3, but as the Hamilton men were unable to come to Schenectady at that time,

THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. 53 the game had to be postponed. The Ham- ilton team, as it lined up against the Union . .. eleven, was quite materially different in its , make-up from the team that had played Union one month· before at Hamilton Col .. lege. Howard Conant of Union, umpired, and Mr. Allison of Hamilton, refereed, and with the excepti<?n, perhaps, of one or two decisions, these men perfor1n ed their duties in an excellent manner. 11amilton got the toss and took the ball, and at just twenty-five . minutes past three started the gan1e with th·e • oft used wedge rush. They gained consid- . e:rable on their first rush, but soon the ball went to Union on four downs.. On the next line-up the baH was passed to Daley and he succeeded in regaining what ground had been lost to the Hamilton team. But now for about ten minutes the ball was kept · pretty nearly i'n the centre of the field. Dur- · ing this time both the teams did consider- able fun1 bling, and also some excellent tack- ling. Finally Union slowly, but surely, fotced the ball down the field and \-Vben they had :reached Hamilton's 20 yard li.ne the ball was passed to McCowatt for attempt at a goal from the field; the attempt fai]ed, how·ever, and Hamilton made a touch back. The ball was taken out to the twenty-five yard line and punted down t~ast the cen t,re of the field. McCowatt returned it, however, \\ ith a \veil · directed p·unt. Again the two teams strug- ·g:l'ed for some ti_me without either one gain- ing any advantage. At last, however, the ball was passed to Daley who,, guarded in .splendid form by McQueen, made a good run and scored the first touch-down for Union, from which a goal was kicked. Although the ball was kept in Hamilton's territory for the rest of this half the Union m.en were un- able to make another touch-d(}wn, and there- fore the score at the end of the first half was 6 to o in Union's favor. The second half was only thirty minutes~ long, the captains of the two teams having decided that it would be too dark to play the full forty-five minutes. Union started with the ball in this half, and played a quick, sharp game. Before two minutes had passed Daley on a good rusn through the centre, gained another touch-down, a!ld for the second time McCowatt kicked a goal. The ball was taken to the centre of the field. Hamilton kept the ball for some time but finally lost it on a bad fumble. On Union's third down the ball was passed to MeCowatt who made a long, low punt down the field. Welch, Hamilton's full back, tried to catch the ball but made an unfortunate fumble, and. Babcock, seizing the ball, rushed it over the line and made.,.a touch-down; McCowatt failed to kick a goal this time. Hamilton now began to play a much sharper game, and by continually rushing the ball through the centre, forced it down into Union's part of the field. They failed to make a touch-down but just before time was up Welch kicked a very pretty goal from the field, leaving the score 16 to 5 in Union's favor., In the first part of the last half of the game Briggs was quite seriously hurt, and it was feared that his leg had been broken, but fortunately this was not the· case; instead, one of the muscles of his leg had been very badly bruised and strained, which caused him intense p~in. Babcock took his place. Lee, of Hamilton also received several hard knocks but pluckily kept on playing to the finish. Lee, Coventry, G. Wood and Welch seemed to play the best gan1e fur Han1ilton, while Daley, McCowatt and the two Van- Voasts played a very good game for Union. The two teams were as follows: UNION. POSITION. HAMILTON. McQ,!;teen ......•. Left end .•..•....•..... , .•... Budd Briggs ........... Left tackle ................. La Rue VanValkenburgh Left guard ...•...••........ Tregure Coons (Capt.) ... Centre ................... G. Wood Van Yoast, A .... Right guard ..•.......•.•. W. Wood Van Yoast, H .... Right tackle ......•..•.... Conough Clute •••......... Q_yarter back ............... Judson Daley ........... Left half back ••. : • ....... Coventry

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Gregory ......... Right haTfback ........ Lee (Capt.) ' a goal was n1ade but was not suecessful. No McCowatt ....... Full back .................. Welch ' · t d · t. • h 1·f .c h more po1n s were rna e 1n tu1s · a:. , 10r t 1 e UNION 6. RocHESTER 4· Union men had braced up in their playing, Another comedy with Rochester ·univer- : somewhat. However, for the greater part of sity, was the result of the Rochester-Union : this half, the ball was in Union's territory. foot ball match on Thanksgiving morning at . In the second half, Union started off with a Rochester. It was a splendid day for foot : rush and soon had the ball dan:gerously near ball, hut there was not n1uch foot ball played. ~ochester's goal. Now Mr. Warrem. came to Instead the tw.o teams spent most of their Rochester's aid and, claiming that an offside time in wranging and finding fault with the : play was made by Union, he gave Rochester decisions of the referee and umpire. Wm. · five yards and the ball. It was snapped back Hyland, Union's trainer, acted as referee and ·· and passed to Comfort, w-ho kicked it a long Mr. Warren, of Rochester, umpired the game. · way down the field, and, where a .mon1ent The game began at twenty minutes of eleven .. before, Union \tvould undoubtedly have had the Rochester teatn having the ball. By ·. a touch-down, now some sixty or seventy repeated forced rushes the ball was steadily yards lay between them and Rochester,s worked down to\vards Union's goal. To the goal. It was an unjust decision of Mr. Union sympathizers who watched the game, Warren's and extremely disastrous for Union. the Union rush line seemed to be very weak. Now the battle raged furiously for quite a Although much lighter than their opponents, while and several men were hurt, though the Rochester men made their greatest gains, none so seriously as to prevent their going and indeed almost their only gains, by forcing on with the game. On a fumble Union lost· their ball right through Union's rush line, the ball to Rochester, and Comfort, with one sornetimes shoving, seemingly, the whole of his long punts, sent the ball down the field '{Jnion team back ten or fifteen yards. It was and across Union's goal line where it was this mode of playing that occasioned the first downed by Bostwick, who claimed a touch- big kick. The Rochester men had gotten down. As the ball had been kicked over the the ball down to Union's twenty-five yards line, naturally the referee would not alJow line. There the ball was given to one of the the claim of a touch-down. The discussion backs, and he, with all the Rochester men of this point lasted for half an hour, but behind him, and all the Union tnen in front at last the Rochester men gave in. Soon of him, was pushed towards Union's goal. after this, Robertson made the best run of Before they had gone ten yards., the referee the game passing by every Rochester n1an blew his whistle for a down. The Rochester except Comfort, who tackled and downed men paid no attention to it, howeyer, and in him after he bad gained some thirty yards for a few mon1ents had crossed the line and Union. The ball was now given to Gregory claimed a touch-down. This was, of course, and he was sent through the centre. With not allowed, and after much arguing on both three men clinging to his back and the ball sides the game went on. Soon after this, under his arm, he emerged frorn the heap of Elwood, Rochester's half, made a good struggling players, and staggered on towards run, doing son1e excellent dodging, anq before . Rochester's goal. He went on for some dis- he was downed he had crossed the much 1 tance, then passed the· ball to Van Voast, '90, coveted line and Rochester had four points who gained ten or fifteen yards more before ... to her credit. The ball was punted out and he went outside. Coons immediately put it from where it was caught, an attempt to kick in play again and rushed it behind Rochester's

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 55 -. - -- -- ------~----- - ---·- -------- -- - -- . ----- - ~-- -- - - ------· ---- goal. From here it was taken out by Clute at Cooperstown in the year 1830, and at the and a goal kicked by Coons. The excitement age .of s.ixteen entered Union College, from was now intense. T'he Rochester men had which he graduated in the class of '50. no idea of ever allowing that touch-down to While in college he was a member of the Kappa Alpha Society. After leaving col- count. They said t·hat the ball had been downed long before the goal line was crossed .by Coons. Everybody talked at once, those lege he took up the professio11 of law, and, knowing the least about the game doing the until the war broke out, practiced quite ex- most talking. Every Rochester man was as tensively in MUwaukee, Wis. He enlisted mad as a March hare and they threatened every kind of harm to Union men. How- ever no harm was done, and most of the stu- dents did the best they could to queH the disturbance. It was impossible, on account of the crowd, to go on with the game, and as there was only about a minute rnore to p1ay the referee called the game. Score 6 to 4 in Union's favor. The Rochester men would not acknowledge this ·score and it will be a much disputed point with them, (as will the scores of most of the games that Rochester has played) until the n1eeting of the league next month, when it will be decided, w,e kope, to their satisfaction. The teams were as follows : ROCHESTER. POSITIONS. lJNION. Toaz ........•....... left end ................ Stewart Barrett .............. left tackle ......... Coons (capt.) Slaight.... . ........ teft guard ..........•.•.... Miller Kinzie .............. centre rush ........•.•.•. Kenny MeN air .....•....... right guard ........ A. Van Voagt Pattison ............. right tackle ........ H. Van Voast Love ................ right end ............... Babcock Bostwick ............ quarter back .............. Clute Elwood ..........•... right half back .......... Gregory Knight .............. left half back .. VanValkenburgh Comfort (capt) ...... full back .......•••.• Robertson .. GEN. JOHN C. STARKWEATHER. 0 R the first time, since the beginning of the present college year, is THE CONCOR- . DIENSIS called upon to announce the death of one of U nion'·s prominent alumni. On the I5thd.ayof November, 189o,Maj. Gen. John C. Starkweather died at his home in Washington. Gen. Stark weather was born in the war at the first call, and in Mav, 1861, ,., he became Colonel of the rst Regiment of Wisconsin Volunteers. In less than two ·months he had his regiment under fire in the battle of Falling Waters. From that time on he took active part in a number of engagements, and while stat~ioned at Mur- freesborough, Tenn., he received a Briga- dier's commission. ·He participated in the attack at Chickamauga and was wounded in the battle around Chatanooga. He after- wards served in comtnand of various posts in Tennessee and Alabama until the war ended, when he received an honorable discharge, in May, 1865. Leaving the army he re- turned to Wisconsin, and for a while tried farming, but afterwards returned to the law, and finding that his opportunities for success would be greater in Washington than else- where, he· went to that city and made it his home for the remainder of his life. OF INTEREST TO STUDENTS. Ist tenor, S. Braman, Dougall, Gillespie, Weeks. 2nd tenor, Burbank, Hills, Lord: Robert- son, Trumbull. 2nd bass, A. Braman, Coons, Fiske, Mc- Alpine, Mosher. 1st bass, Briggs, Crandall, Lamb, Millard, Reynolds, Waite, Whipple.

s-6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ---- ------- . =========================::::::::= -Now that the foot ball season has closed the manager for next season should be chosen befor-e long. -The Glee Club meets in the chapel, daily, at 2 P. M. The following positions have been assigned to the me:mbers of the club by 'Prof. Rost: -- At the last CoHege n:1eeting, it was voted to elect the base bali scorer and assistant :tnanager for the corning year at the next -meeting. -- Wm. Hyland, Union's foot ball trainer, left Schenectady last week. · It is to be hoped that he will be with Union ,s foot ball team next year. -The Sophomore Class will give their soiree on Friday evening,. Jan. 16th. This promises to be a most enjoyable affair and t,be Sophomores are already making great preparations for it. -The third\ Junior Hop, of the term will · be held on Friday evening, Dec. I 2. At the last \ Hop\ it was remarked that the ladies' dressing room was much too cold for com- fort. This will be rernedied at the coming dance. -The Garnet editors are already actively at work and this year's Garnet bids fair to be a success. The editors would like any member of the Freshmen Class who has any , talent for drawing and sketching to communi- cate with them at once. -1'he.Sophomores recently visited Fresh- man Reeves and reprimanded him for his in1 politeness to the Foot Ball Manager. He · finally obliged then1 by subscribing $2.00 for foot ball. They also took Cass and gave him a cold water bath in the creek on account of· insubordination. -- The attractions at the city theatres for the next two weeks are: At the State Street Opera House, Dec. 8 to 14, :B\\rost & Fran- h D \ R. - P. k ' Ch 'ld ,., s a w ; • · ec. I 7, - , . ag 1c er s ~ 1 . , and for one of the floliday attractions, J. L. Sullivan in \Honest Hearts and Honest Hands.'' At the CentFe Street Opera House, Dec. 2, ~on roe & Rice in '' Aur1t Bridget~'; Dec. 4, Edgar Selden,. ~~n ''Will o' the Wis:p \~; Dec. 8, Farren, in \ Irish Corporal '' ; Dec. I I, Barry & Fay, in'.' l\[c Kenna's Flirtation.\ PE:R:S()\fiALS. '35. Hon. John Bugelow, L.-L. D., who has been in turn, Editor of the Evening Post, U. S. Minister to France, and Secretary of \ State, (New York,) has crowned his honor- able career as journal.ist, diplomat and states- man, by undertaking to write the biography of his friend, William Cullan Bryant. (:rhis \vork, completed in se-veral volumns, has been performed with such exhaustiveness of re- search and with such literary skill as to place the writer among the foremost biographers of the day. '48. It will be of interest to aH Union College men to learn tbat it has been decided to erect in New York 'City, a monument to the late Chester A. Arthur, Union '48, ex- president of the United States. The sum of $25,000 has already been secured for that purpos.e, and a distinguished Baltimore sculptor bas been engaged to take charg_e of the work. A feature of the proposed monu- ment \vill be a statue ,of President Arthur of .. heroic size. '55. Brig. Gen. Philip Sidney Post, re- cently U. S. Consul at Vienna, has been

THE CONCORD'lENSIS. 57 ============================7====::-:-_-·-_-----------._c _ _: _ _:__ ~·--~---- elected to Congress from the Ioth Illinois dis- · ·enJ'ovina a n1uch needed rest at Lakewood, _, b trict. N. ] . .. /56. The New York Tribune recently . '8g. T{iffi Moore ~vas married on 'Wcdnes- . published ·a portrait and gave a very good day, Nov. rg, to M!i·s:S Bertha Vroom-an of biographica:l sketch of Andrew J. Perry, th~ . Schenectady. Mr_ and Mrs. Moore are now Republican candidate i11 the last election fo:r . living in PhoenixvHl e, Pa., where Mr. 3Ioore Congress, in the fourth district. Mr. Perry ··is jnterested in t N-e Pha:nix Iron Works. . k ·f . th. t' 1 ' f h , 11 '8.g. S . . t W t ·s . Ill 1s spo en o 1 n · 1s ar 1c e as ' one o t: e now 1s a · es u pen or, · .. , best-known Republicans of South Brooklyn .. \ . engaged in engineering with Flanigan. '6o. Ex-Senator Warner Miller has an '92. G. F. Mos\h has been eiliected article on \Business Men in Politics,\ in the manager of the Glee Club. November number of the Nort!t American '94. Brookins bas returned to college . • . Review. '94. Perkins is necovering frnm a light '63. Job n B. Robinson, of Philadelphia, -has been elected Nlember of Congress from the sixth district of Pennsylvania. '64. P. W. Bartholom'ew was recently elected one of the judges of the Superior Court of Indianapolis, Ind. '65. The new Member of Congress from the 15th district of New York is Henry Bacon. He also enjoys the dis tinction of being counsel for the Players' Base BalL League. 1 '67. The State of Wyon1ing has elected as her first senator, J. M. Carey, of Cheyenne City, Wyo. Mr. Carey has thrice been elected Mayor of Cheyenne, and has repre- sented his territory in Congress as a delegate since 1884. '72. Col. Daniel S. Lamont was elected honorary president of the Delta Upsilon Fra_.t-ern it y at its recent cvn ven tion in Chicago. / ·/~75. Rev. Dr. John G. Lansing, professor in the Theological Semin:try of the Reformed Church at New Brunswick, N. ]., has been compelled by continued ill health to reli n- quish class rootn work for a tin1e and is attack of fever. \A FAR COilJ:firTREE,\ ll'iDEED. It is doubtful wh etiher even Stanley in the Dark Continent eve~r discovered a region of such remarkable fauna and flora as did the author of \A Far <:ountree,\ the story of whose adventures begins in Outi11g for December. Here were thickets of cane, somewhat like batnboo, from four to twelve inches in diam- eter, and rising up ft1U two hundred feet or · more, their tops featnering out in long, hair- like filaments or tern1inating in a stiff, pi umy spike; a great leaf rolled itself, sheath-like, about the stalk, and about half way up un- folded and fell away like a giant scirnetar. Here, too, were r:m shes, their blades two, three, and even eight feet in width, veined and seamed leng.tl1.~ise with innumerable channels, and towering up toward the sky fifty or a hundred feet n ntil by their own weight they bent again to the earth. A bright and vivid green was the pre- dotninant color, but hrilliant tints of scarlet, gold alld blue, snowywhite ana royal purple mingled with the waste of emerald, and a strong odor, w h i c h to a s t r o ·~ g e r sense n1 i g h t have been a perfun1e emanating from a n1oist herbage, oppressed n1.e like a deleterious gas.

f < i l < • I THE c·ONCORDIENSIS. ====~- --- THE SWI:TZERS OF AMERICA. One of the characteristics of the miners who sought California for gold, and, yielding _ to the subtle influences of the r~gion, took . up their residen·ces there, is pointed out by Mr. Charles Howard Shinn in Outi1zg- for December. Other Californians may be rovers, but those whose homes were built : forty years ag·o in the shadow of the Shasta . pines live and die there, with the si.m~ple faithfulness of the Swiss mountaineers. The - LATEST whole foothiH land is furrowe-d with their ancient toil. They have torn down the walls of rock and sifted the sands of thousands of str.eams. Their forgotten camps once . throbbed with the strong life of men, and now the land lies waste. but thev still live on · J in log cabins by half acres of orchard nested in the midst of the mountains. -------- ''UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, October r3, ~890. WRIGHT, KAY & CO., Manufacturing Jewelers, Detroit, DEAR SIRS: I received the D. K. E. pin to-day and can hardly tell you how pleased I am with it and the trouble and pains you have taken to carry out my wishes. I consider it the finest piece of fraternity badge work I have ever seen. Yours sincerely, EDWARD HuRD SMITH.\ STEAM, HOT WATER AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIALTr. Successor to A . .liE. Powers, 17HOTOQ~Al7111C i ARTIJT, No. 421 State SL, Schenectady, N.Y. Cl(tt\RRTTE.S -~-------------~---- -~---- THE STANDAND OF THE T¥0RLD. The stock used in the manufacture of this Cigar -is the mojt expensive 'Of any five-cent Cigar ever put on the tnarket. It is reallv a ten-ce'lll Cigar for Jive cetzts. Competition drove us to il. $.STRAIGHT B.Bd.&M.~t:;IJ., The Price is 5 Cents.-~ Nat 1:0 Cents.

VoL. XIV. UNION COLLl::.GE, DECEMBER 19, 189o. No. 6. Eli Perkins~ ----..••••\•ew york ·LectuireiiB.ullrlleall· ll\il. ·iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii

6o THE CONCORDIENSlS. daughter to mourn his loss. He died wealthy, hut hi~ ·. greatest legacy to his family was his literary reputation. His fame spread through England as weU as America. ··----------- ---- -- The last time I saw Josh Billings was on a MONG our many noted :alunlni, not one Madison avenue street car in New York has reached a higher standard of excellence · City. I think of him as I saw him then, in his own particular calling than has '' Eli . lVI ELVILLE D. LANDON. Perkins,\ that great American humorist ' sitting in the corner ·of the car, with his spectacles on his :nose, and in a brown study. His picture appears in this number of THE His mind was always on his work, and his CoNcORDlENSIS and the following short sketch w.ork was to think out dry .epigratns so fuH of his life win no doubt be interesting to all·of . of truth and hu:man nature that they set the the sons of Old Union. h 1· ld 1 h' Th · , h . . . . . . . . . . w: o e wor ·aug tng. . ·· at morning, w en Melville D. Landon (Eli Perkins), was born . .· . . . . . . . . .. . . · h · Ed N y . · 8 t d' d th· h th . the old man espied .me, he was so busy wit •· 1 n • . . en , · . . . , In I 40, s u I e · r o u g. · e . . Sophomore year at Madison University, grad- I h1s thoughts that he d1d not even say good uated at Union College in I 86r, and entered morning. He simply raised one hand, looked the army and gained the rank .of major. He over his glasses and said, quickly, as if he traveled _abroad in 1.867, was actin.g Secretary had made a great discovery : of Legation to Russia, under Cassius M. Clay, \I' t 't El' ,, and published the history of the Franco- ve go 1 ·', 1 • \ G t h. t ?' Prussian war in 187r. Mr. Landon first be- 0 w a · came noted as a humorist by letters from \Got a good one-lem me read it,\ and Saratoga,in tbe New York Com111ercial Adver- then he read from a crumpled envelope this tfse~, signed Eli Perkins, in I 872. After pub- epigram that be had just jotted down·: hsh1ng several humorous books he entered \ un t · t k h · If look . vv tzen a man rzes o 1na e 'ttmse the lecture field and contnbuted to the . , amusement of audiences all over the country. beautiful, he steals-he steals a woman s patent His humor, wit and satire is illustrated in his · right-how's that?'' various books, \Saratoga in 1901\ (r872), \Splendid I said. \How long have you \Eli Perkins at large''( I 87~ ), his great work, been at work on itt' \Wit and H urn or of the Age,'' (I 886), and . \Kings of Platform and Pulpit,\ to be pub- lished soon by the Belford·Clarke Co., . Chicago, advance proofs of which are now · appearing in THE CoNCORDIENSIS. He resides in New York City. ELI PERKfNS O:N AMERICAN HUMORISTS. \JOSH BILLINGS.'·'* ENRY W. SHAW, the well-known wit and satirist, ll better known as \Josh Billings,\ was born at ::-:, f Lanesborough, Mass., in r8r8, of a family of poli- ti.cians, his father and grandfather having both bee11: in Congress. H~e went early in life to the West, where for twenty-five years he was a farmer and auctioneer. He did not begin to write for publication till he was forty-five years old. He has bten one of the most popular of popular lecturers. M1·. Shaw died at Mon- terey, Cal., Octobe·r 14, I88s. He is the author of several books which have been collected into one larg·e volume by Mr. DHlingham, successor to Geo. W. Carleton, and which is still having an immense sale. Mr. Shaw left an accomplished wife and a beautiful *From advance proofs of Melville D. Landon's'' Kings of Platfor.m and Pulpit,'' Belford Clark, Publisher, Chicago. q Three hours,\ he said, '' to get it just right.\ Mr. Shaw always worked long and pa- tiently over these little paragraphs, but every one contains a sermon. When he got five or six written, he stuck them into his hat and went down and read them to G. W. Carle- ton, his publisher and friend, who was an ex- cellent judge of wit, and he and Josh would laugh over them. \ One day I told Josh that I would love him forever and go and put flowers on his grave if he would give me some of his paragraphs in his own handwriting. He did it, and when he died I hung a wreath of z'mmortelles on his tombstone at Poughkeepsie. These are the sparks from his splendid brain in his own hand writing just as he gave them to me:

THE CONCOR.DIENSIS. ON&T J/u.- Jrhok~ mM--&&Mw ~a. ,/,_o&_ »ak,/ltYtd ku; ;t kkflln..- a4t.\t fnrd fo-~ /JiVn7 . el,e..- tr_ /. , ·~,~· ~$3 so, tNS 4 ~~9 3 ' ~ i/ho.he iz m<~ (JYU_ ~/i.a f- Jt14'l k .Secl ~ '/G/Yt:IU/rb'lr tiL ~tu,t;._ -7/uy_ J1Wh a., cvnfJ.r? if a;t.(.. lu3 o#ur s~.=. :fslt /J~s. 61

THE C·ONC·ORDIENSIS . . The next day after Josh gave me the above \Because he never blunders with his epigrams, he came and dined with me, and . heels.\ together we smoked and laughed and fixed \What was the best thipg said by our old · friend, Artemus Ward?'\ the following interview: \ Mr. Billings, where were you educated?\ \Pordunk Pennsylvania.\ \How old are you?\ ''I was born 150 years old-and have been . . . , .. , growing young ever since. \ A · · . d· ? '' re you marne .. \ Once.\ ''How many children hav~e you ? '' · \ Doublets.\ \ What other vices have you ? '' \None.\ H . t ? \ \ ave you any vu ues. '' Several.\ ''What are they?\ \ I left them up at Poughkeepsie.'· \Do you gamble?,, \When I feel good.\ '' What is your profession?., \Agriculture and alminaxing.\ \ How do you account for your deficient knowledge in spelling? \ \Bad spells during infancy, and poor memory.'' \What things are you the most liable to · forget?\ ((Sermons and debts.\ ''What professions do you like best?\ \Auctioneering base-ball and theology.\ \ Do you smoke ? \ \Thank you, I'll take a Partaga.\ \What is your worst habit?\ \The coat I got last in Poughkeepsie.\ \What are your favorite books?'' \My alminack and Commodore Vander- . hilt's pocketbook.\ \What is your favorite piece of sculpture?'' · \The ·mile stone nearest home.\ \What is your favorite animal?\ ''The mule.\ \Why?\ \ All the pretty girls in :{Jtah marry Young.'' \Do you believe in the .final salvation of all men?'' '\ I do-·· let me pick the men!'' In the evening Josh and [ reviewed the · interview, and pronounced it faithfully rendered. He wished to add only that Mr. Carleton, who published his alrninack, had the most immense intellect of this ot any othe:L age. JOSH BILLINGS' L:B:CTURE. WIT, PHILOSOPHY AND WISDOM. This is Josh Billings' last Lecture Programme. SYNOPSIS OF THE LECTURE BY JOSH. 1-Remarks on Lecturing-General. Over- ture. 2-The Best Thing on Milk. 3-The Summer Resort. 4-J osh on Marriage. 5 -Josh on the Mule. 6-The Handsome Man, a Failure. 7-The Dude a Failure. 8-What I know about Hotels. g-The Bumble-bee. Io-The Hornet I I-l'he Quire Singer. 1 2-J osh on Flirting. I 3-. Courtin'. Josh Billings' lecture was unique. It was . an hour of short paragraphs, every one worth its weight in gold. The great philosopher always wore long hair (to cover a wart on the back of his neck), and always sat down when he lectured. He delivered his quaint philosophy with his bright eyes looking over his glasses. His lecture was too deep to be . popular. It was really the college professor or reflecting judge who fully appreciated him.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Think of such paragraphs as out once in a minute : Lad£es and Gentlemen :-. these tumbling .· musik out ov a bobalink, or like a yung bird , out ov its nest, when it is feathered enuffto fly. 1 hope you are all well. [Looking over . his glasses. J Whenever a man haz made up hiz mind that he iz a wit, then he is ,mistaken without remiedy, but whenever the publiek haz made up their ·mind that he haz got the disease, then he has got it sure. Thare is lots ov folks who eat well and drink well, and yet are SICk a]l the titne· Theze are the folks who alwuz \enjoy poor health.\ Then I kno lots ov people ·whose only . reckomendash un iz, that they are helth y-so iz an onion. [Laughter. J And so Josh Billings went on for an hour. always wise and a:lways draping food for thought. ELI PERKINS. The subject of my lecture is Milk-plain M-i-1-k. The best think I've ever seen on milk is cream. [Laughter.] That's right [joining]. \People of good · sense\ are thoze w hoze opinyuns agree with ours. [Laughter]. People who agree with you never bore you. The shortest way to a wornen's harte iz to praze her baby and her bonnet, and to a man's harte to praze biz watch, his horse and biz 1ectur. Eliar Perkins sez a man iz a bore when he talks so much about hisself that you kant talk about yourself. [Laughter.] Still I shall go on talking. Comik lecturing iz an unkommon ·pesky thing to do. It iz more unsarting than the rat ketching bizzness az a means ov grace, or az a means ov livelyhood. Most enny body thinks they kan do it, and this iz jist what makes it so bothersum tew do. When it iz did jist enuff, it is a terifick success, but ·when it iz overdid, it is like a burnt slapjax, very impertinent, Thare aint but phew good judges ov humor, and they all differ about it. If a lekturer trys tew be phunn y, he iz :like a boss trying to trot backwards pretty apt · tew trod on himself. [IJaugh ter.] Humor must fall out ova man's m·outh, like THE NEW CATALOGUE. HE annual catalogue of the coillege has ap- peared, and it is a volume worthy, in every way, of Union Collage, and its appear- ance and contents shows that a great deal of careful work has been put upon it by its compiler. The first thing which attracts the attention is the increase in size of this over former issues of the catalogue. This is made necessary, of course, by the increased number of students, and.also by the addition of the several new courses which have been added to the college curriculum. T'hese consist of three courses leading to the degree of Ph. B., a special course in Sanitary Engi- neering, and a graduate course in Sanitary Engineering leading to the degree of C. E. In the list of students, those taking post- graduate courses, and those in the elective courses, are classified separately from the students in the four regular c.lasses. There have been several new studies added to the elective studies which may be cbosen during the Junior and Senior years. The depart- ments of the catalogue devoted to the Medi- cal School, the Law School, and the College of Pharmacy, have also been somewhat en- larged. Another excellent innovation is the announcement of the Honorary degrees con- ferred at the last commencement of the col- lege. On the first page of the book is an excellent reference calendar for 18gr, sho\v- ing all the days in which college is in ses- sion by printing such dates in large type. The book is withall a neat and most interest- ing volume, and its neat appearance is en- hanced by the Union College seal on the cover, being printed in garnet ink, thus popu- larizing the idea of the college color.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY BY STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. B. c. LITTLE, '91' W. A. Me DoNALD, '91, ? HoMER B. WILLIAMs, '92, f E. J. PREST, '92, L. H. CARRIS, '93, }·· J. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FERGUSO~, '91, G. F. MosHER, '92, I H. o. ME-RCHANT, '93, r EDITOR- IN -CHIEF. . AssociATES. LrT,ERARY EDITOR. AssisTANTs. BusrNEss MANAGER. AssrsTANTs. TERMS, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE •. SINGLE CoPIEs, IS CENTS •. We desire our friends to send us conttibutions, items of interest and information concerning Alumni. Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenectady, N.Y. HRISTMAS is coming,'' so carols the child and the thought is re-echoed joyfully in the heart of everyone, young and old. Yes, Christmas is coming, that grandest and happiest of our holiciays. Retnember, ye students, that on that day of all others, you are to lay aside all your cares and sorrows and are to enjoy yourself to the utmost. Remember all your ten spot examinations, and forget all others. Recall \\tith joy all of the victories Old Union has celebrated and blot out from your memory all of the defeats she has suffered. Keep in mind the fact that it is \more blessed to give than to receive,\ and therefore give freely and gladly on that day; but allow others a chance to be blessed also and receive then what is offered you. All through the civilized world on Christmas morning, will go sounding that happy greet- ing \Merry Christmas.\ Remember then that you belong to the civilized world and help to swell the echo with your \ Merry Christmas.\ The more often you repeat these well-wishing words, the better you will be for it. But amid all your rejoicings retnem her what this great natal day con1memorates. You can all recall that hymn which you learned years ago, and which, if it seemed beautiful then, seems four-fold more beautiful now when you read it. You remember how it begins, ''While shepherds watched their flocks by night, All seated on the ground, An angel of the Lord came down And glory shone around.\ And the rnessage which was thus brought to those shepherds thousands of years ago, is just as true and just su~h \ glad tidings of great joy,\ to you now as it was to them, for most assuredly on Christmas morning, \is born to you, this day, a Savior which is Christ the Lord.'' Rem em her then, for all the blessings which you have received, to render thanks to Him to whom they are due. Be at peace with your fellow-men. Let all sins be forgiven and forgotten. You are happy, rnake others so. Finally we join our best wishes with those of all your many friends and hope, with all our hearts, that yours will indeed be a very Merry Christmas. * * * IT SEEMS to be the general op1n1on among the students that, during next term, sotne sort of an entertainment must be given, the proceeds of which shall go towards defraying the expenses of maintaining our base ball and foot ball tearns. It is a pretty well under- stood fact that there is no money at present in the base ball treasury, and that the expenses for· foot ball this fall were much greater than the receipts; therefore in order to make up this foot ball deficit and give sound financial support to our base ball team, a considerable amount of money must be raised. There have been sevenil plans sug- gested· for raising this n1oney, and perhaps it would be well to enumerate those that seem

THE CONCORDIENSIS. the most feasible. One plan is to rent the · churches in the city, served supper and thus opera house for one night and engage some i aided very materially in the success of the first-class company to come here to Schenec- : fair. If such a successful fair was given five tady and play for the benefit of the college · years: ago, certainly we should be able to give athletics. Another suggestion is that the · one now. We have at present a very credit- students get up a. minst:re1 organization, as . able glee club. The gymnasium instructor was done three or four years ago, and give a · has inform.ed us that, by the time we are benefit performance. There are objections •· ready to give the fair, he will have a class of of course, to both of these plans, as there are · me.H so trained in the gymnasium, that they objections to most everything. The first \Vay · will be able to give a first-class exhibition of would be the least trouble, and if tnanaged in different athletic feats. We have men in the right way, would undoubtedly prove to · be a profitable investment, still, the expenses would be rather large an d1 the amount realized would probably not reach the amount desired. The second plan might be an excellent one but there are one or two grave objections to it. There is not now in college talent enough among the students with which to organize a first-class college minstrel troupe, or if there is this necessary talent it would take too much time to discover and properly classify it ; but, granting that there is this talent, and that it is all ready to be utilized, the organization of a minstrel trouve with the necessary rehear- sals and attendant study that would have to be put upon it, wou]d necessitate our taking more time and work away from our regular collegiate duties, than we believe the college authorities would allovJ us to take. The best plan, in our estimation, which has been offered is the idea of having a Union College Fair. Five years ago a fair was held under the auspices of the students, for the benefit of college athletics, and over eight hundred dollars was made in this way. Part of this money was expended in laying out the run- ning track which now encloses the college . tennis courts, and the rest was handed over to the base ball management. The fair lasted ' three nights.· There was a stage perfonnance each evening, consisting of singing and athletic exhibitions and concluding with a . short farce acted by the students. Each · evening ladies representing the different college who can, with practice, produce some · very good instrumental music, and there are rnen :in college, who, we are sure, are capable ofdoing son1e excellent acting in any little comedy that we might. wish to produce. Sur·ely here are attractions enough for the best of entertaiments. As for the other things which go to make up a successful fair, we :feel confident that the people in town will, if asked, help us all they can, and with their help we can carry it on successfully. It will require work, and hard work to do this, but it is for a good cause and everyone will, undoubtedly, be willing to do his share. We 1nust,. z'n so1ne way, raise 1noney for ou,- athletics. Why not have a Union College Fair? * * * THE Fresh men have gotten through with their cremation of Algebra, and we are very glad of it. It is always a relief to chronicle the fact that cremation is over. Would that it were over for all time! Or rather we wish that it would be remodeled into a more civilized procedure. Everyone knows its evils and none can point out any good that is effected by the Union College Freshmen's form of cremation. If it only amounted to good-natured rivalry all would be well and good, but, under the present code of crema- tion ethics, this laudable rivalry degenerates into personal ill-feelings and petty animosities between the mem hers of the two lower classes. Another somewhat uncomfortable ' . l '• ' i' . I ,·, ' ! : 1

66 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ------ ----===f============================ result of this heathenish ritual, is the fact that there are always anum her of bandaged heads and bruised bodies to be taken care of-·· not the pleasantest work in the world. It is all wrong and we know it; why not stop it then? The class of '94 can, if they will, put an end to these evils by refusing to persecute the Freshmen next year, in the usual barbarous way, at cremation time. This will bring no d~iscredit upon then1selves, but rather it will he an honor to them and of great bene.fit to their college. THE NEW YORK !BANQUET. · .,HURSDAY, Dec. 11, was the occasion f. of one of the largest and most enthusiastic meetings of the sons of \ Old Union'' that has ever been known. The occasion was the third annual meeting and banquet of the Union College Alun1ni Association of New York, at Hotel Brunsw.ck, New York 'City. At six o'clock in the evening,. a business meeting was held and the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: President, Wm. H. Me Elroy, '6o; Vice Pres~dent, George Alexander, '66; Secretary, George F. Allison, '84; Treasurer, H. V. N. Philip, '84; Mernbers of the Executive Com·mittee, James C. Duane, Silas W. Burt, Silas B. Brownell, John Z. Lott, Frank Loon1is, Edward Carry, Daniel W. Stimson, S. B. Rossiter and James B. Lockwood. At seven o'clock the meeting adjourned to the elegant dining hall of the Hotel Bruns- wick, which, on this occasion, was made resplendent with everything significant of Old Union and her famous memories. At one end of the hall, suspended across the imrnense plate mirror, was a large banner bearing the words, \Camp Union,\ while at the opposite end wa~ a similar one with the inscription, \ Union, Hikah !\ The tables were beautifully arranged and splendidly decorated. The long elevated table running the full length of the room at one side, was reserved for the prominent alumni and invited guests,,. while at right angles to th i:s- were shorter tables t:or the cLasses in order of graduation from '29 to '89. A tinge of:garnet, the c0 Hege color, was noticeable in every- thing,. and the effect was ,most pleasing. As the college glee club sang the \'Song to Old Union,'''' tne members :marched in, headed by President Webster and ex- President of the Association, Wm. H. H. Moore. Then followed ,the different classes in regular order from the oldest dowa. After several repetitions of the chorus of the Old Union song, in which the entire :company hearti'l y joined, the Divine blessing was asked by Rev. Dr. Wortman, after which the very tempting menu was s·erved. During the supper the hall resounded with all of the Union. Co11ege :songs, which were sung by the coUege glee club, which was in attend- ance at the banquet. The men1bers of the glee club recei-ved many complime;nts upon their singing abHities and proved then1sel ves a credit to the college. The banquet proper having been. finished, speeches were in order and it rs with much regret that we are unable to print them an, for it was remarked that they were the best, most interesting, and n1ost enthusiastic that have ever been given at a Union Alumni gathering. Mr. Me Elroy., the new president of the association, rnade the first speech, and then Dr. Webster,\ Our · President,\ fol1o\ved with one of his inter- esting talks. He spoke of the new courses that had been recently established at Union and of the courses that he would like to have established, especially courses in mechanical and electrical engineering. Warner Miller followed with a most eloquent speech. He spoke of the great need that existed in the colleges, of having a department that would teach the ethics of politics. He believed that young men should thoroughly learn about the institutions of our country and about the duties. of an office holder. Then followed

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 6J ·--- -~-----~-----·- ~-- ---~---- ------- ~ ------------- - ----~--+ -- --~--------------- some good oild enthusiastic Union speeches -There have been several rumors afloat by Rev. Dr. Rayn1ond, ·Charles Sprague, , about ereoting a toboggan slide in the college Rev. Dr. Chades N ott, Prof. Wm. Wells, . grounds, but as yet no definite action has who received an ovation as he arose, and, in his unique way, told of the n1en1ories of Old . been taken in the matter. Union, and Rev. Dr. Rossiter, who in his . -The hour of the Sunday afternoon speech eulogized Dr. Hickok, Tayior Lewis, : reiigious meetings has been changed to five and Jonathan Foster. One of the best o'clock, and the .meetings are now held in speeches oft he evening was made by Gen. Professor Hoffman's recitation room instead Daniel Butterfield, who spoke of Union · College in the anny. Among· other things of in the ch.apel. General Butterfield offered to furnish one-fifth -The double quartette which attended the oft he means necessary to establish such a alumni banquet ,in New York was made up chair in Union College as was suggested by . as follows: 1st tenors, Weekes and Gillespie, Warner Miller. Finally the last speech was zd tenors, Trumbull and Robertson ; Ist bass, made and the last song sung and the annual . banquet of the New York Alumni for 1890 . Briggs and Fiske ; 2 d bass, Coons and was over. OF IDTEREST TO STUDENTS. -College opens on Tuesday, Jan. 6. -The Senior c1ass have not yet held their class elections. -Prof. Brown has gone out to Indianapolis to spend the Christmas vacation. -Most of the Senior engineers have begun work upon their graduation theses. -Sanders, a former n1ember of Union, '92, has ente-red the University of South Carolina. - Prof. Perkins has taken ad vantage of the vacation to make an extended southern trip. -It is to be hoped that a large number of the students will take regular \gym \ work next term. -The last Junior Hop of the term was held on Friday, Dec. I 2. It was, like its predecessors, a very enjoyable affair. -At the last regular college meeting A. M. Banker, '92, was elected to the office of scorer and assistant base ball manager. -The meeting of the foot ball league which was to have been held in Syracuse, . Dec. 13, has been postponed until January, r8g1. -Prof. Maurice Perkins is President of the Technical Club of Schenectady, an association recently formed by the prominent scientific men of the city. Mosher. -Professor Truax reoently delivered an address on Washington Irving before the Oxford League of the State Street M. E-. Church, and the Epworth League of the Albany Street M. E. Chur·ch. - The daily papers spoke very highly of the address. , --The committee on the Sophomore soiree is composed of the following men: E. D. Lines, chairman ; E. J. Webster, H. D. Cordovez, B. R. Babcock, D. N. Tallman, ]. A. Shanahan, II. D. Merchant, E. Gilles- pie and R. I-I. Eellows. They are hard at work making arrangements for the dance and intend to make it a great success. -The attractions at the theatres for the near future, are: At St.ate Street opera house, Dec. 24, the author and actor, Duncan B. Harrison_, and the world's champion, John L. Sullivan, in the great play, \ flonest Hearts and Willing Hands.'' At Centre Street opera house : Dec. 25-28, Pearl Me'lville ; Jan. 1, M ugg's Landing ; Jan_ J, Neil Burgess' County Fair. PERSONALS. '29. Prof. Hugh S. Banks of Newburg, N. Y., was the oldest of the Union College alumni, at the recent alumni banquet held in N~w York city . t :foj. Gen. Amasa J. Parker of Albany, on ifecern ber 6, handed in his resignation as Commander of the 3d Brigade of theN ational Guard. He has been in command of this brigade since I 886.

68 THE CON·CORDIENSIS. '84. B·enjamjn Guerard Chisholm, an al- umnus of this college, died recently at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was born at Charleston, S. C., graduated from Union College in the class of '84, and up to the · time of his death was a 1nember of an archi- tectural firm at Birmingham. While in col- lege, he was a mem her of the Sigma Phi society, was a society leader, and had many friends in this city, who will be paihed to learn of his death. ROBEI~T T. MOl~, (Successor to John Gilmour.) DEALER IN look6, ltationerg and laper gangin-g~, 333 State and I)o Ce11,lre Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y Agency for Anchor, Inman and Hamburg-American Trans-Atlantic Steamship Lines. STANFORD BLOCK.. STEAM, HOT WATER AND FURNACE HEATING A SPECIALTY. Successor to A. M. Powers, PHOTOQRAPHIC ~ ARTIJT, No. 421 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. LATE'ST' ENGLISH ,, CIGARETTES THE STANDAl?D OF THE WORLD. ACADEMICAL COWNS & CAPS. Correct styles .for UNIVERSITY ,& COLLECE USE. Price according to Material and number ordered. Special prices for clases. For measurement send height, width of shoulder, size of neck, and ftength of seeve. These gowns add grace and ful• ness to a speaker's form. 'MILITARY EQUIPMENTS. Swords, Sashes, Belts, Boxing Cloves, FoUs, Footballs, Jackets;: everything that Students use in athletic sports, we supply. C. W. SIMMONS & CO., \OaK Hall,'\ Boston_, Mass.

AlJ VER TISEMENTS. RICHMOND STRAIGHT CUT NO. 1 RESTAURANT IN THE Y. M. C. A. BUILZJ1NG, Now under t!he direction of the Association. Rooms especially reserved for Lacltes. OjN?1t_from 7 A. M. to Io P. M. Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner zsc. Pleasant Rooms. Prices Moderate. HENI\_Y A. KE~ST E, Ph. 'G., • P HARM A GIST . • • ·• . CIGARETTES. TOILET ARTICLES, SOAPS, PERFUMES, ETC. Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade Cigarettes, will find this brand superior to aH others. The Richmond Straight Cut No. I Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the old and original brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was bought out by us in the year I875· Beware of Imitations, and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. T-~~ A:&I;..B~ & Gl!NT.·.BR ~~an~& Of the Amerz'ca1z Tobacco Compa·Jty, Manufactztrers, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA. MACINTOSHES I! Both from Chas. Macintosh & Co., England, for whom we are sole agents, and our best American makers. We have now a stock of about 150 Men's Coats from $6 to $27. There is no factor of society that finds in them such utility as College Men. We invite your inspection. COTRELL & LEONARD, HATTERS, FL/RRIEl?S AND IMPORTERS, 472 and 474 Broadway Albany, N. Y. A ji1ze lz'ne of Imported a:;zd .Dotnestzc Cz'gars and Cigarettes. UNION STREET PHARM.A<CY. Cor. UnioJla?zd rates Sts., SCHENECTA.DT,N. r GLOBE HOTEL~ J. A. HOUCK, Proprietor. Cor. State and Pearl Streets, Alllany, N. Y. TERMS.· $2.o£J PER DAr. BARHYTE & BIRCH, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEAL:ERS :IN Lim,e, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw a?td Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union and 209 and 2II Dock Streets, SCHENECTADY, N. T. Dr. 0. J. GROSS, O.f!ice hou,rs from 9 A. M. lo 4 P. M. I56 J'A T STREET, SCHENECTADr, N. r. i' '1,

ADVERTISEMENTS. ======--=======- -- - 'I' HI~·.· SrfOltl\1·: KING·: I) A~ 'l,.S · · COl\1P ANY,·: Ltd. D. FI\_AZER, Manager. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF ALL WO:OL PANTS TO ORDER,$]. 121 WALL STREiET AND :a EDISON BUILDING, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IIJ SOUTH CENTRE STJ?EET. FIRST-·CLASS . : WORK . :·OUR . : SPECIALTY. EMJVIOTT FJOWD, Proprietor. . A. B~O\LVN & SON, Established I829. U'PHO:LSTERERS ~y; AND ~1: FURNITUnE ~{: DEALERS. .302 STATE ST., SCHENECTADr. N. r. • I StHENE<:.TA[)Y JTEAM LA\IN[)RY -AND-.- .BONJ\/ET ·: BLEACHER Y, 67 CENTRAL ARCADE, SCHENECTADY. CBAKLE o YATE , IJ6 State Street, Schenectady, N. r. ·-~·FURNITURE. .:: W ARERO·OMS,~~- -~~· . Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all articles pertaining to furnishing students rooms. GOODS DELIVERED FREE . BOOTS* AND t SHOES. UNION HALL STORE . ~The most complete line and latest styles. O.f all kinds for Pr.ojessionals and Amateurs. Full litus of leading makes o_f . Cameras. Dry Plates and Card Stock, At the lowest nzarl?et prices. Darh room for use ,of custoJJters. J~ Ne U~DQNN_.J,.p, Opp. Dela:oart How• e. 582 Broadway, Albany, N .. r. E-X:. QUAYLE, -w-OOD EROS., ALBANY, N. Y. Wedding and CollPge IJJV£iations, Cards, and Monograms. ()RTGfNAL DESIGNS WHEN DESIRED. 255 State Street, Schnzrctady, N. r. SHIRTS, UNDENWEAR, GLOVES, HOSIER r NECKWEAR, COLLARS AND CliFFS. noons RF.CR.TVED FOR TROY LAUNDRY.

