s to fhe but . • ;·· .. ' '' . ' ·. ,..,_ ..... .. : .' .,,, ·, . I • .. \. ,_-. \• • '..t,.• ~ } f ,. •• ,II ' .. ' -· .;..... '· ... ,.· ·~·t~ ~ l ·---- UNION COLLEGE, APRIL r8., r89r. 1\o. 13. ---------- --- --- -- -- - --------------------- - ------ - -- -· -~~- - --- -- ---- ----- ---- -- ·---- ---- -- ---· - - - -- - - -- --- --- -- -- -- ALONG THE HUDSON. MONG the greatest bridges in the world is the Poughkeepsie bridge. Approach· ing it from the north or south it appears like an immense structure suspended in the air from the hilltops on either side of the river. The eastern viaduct alone is more than half a mile long, with twenty-four spans, the first from the river's edge being one hundred and seventy-five feet long and nearly two hun- dred feet high. There are six n1ain piers, one located on each shore and four in the river's channel. There are also two anchor- ages of masonry, one hundred and twenty- eight \pony piers\ and two abutments at the ends of the viaducts. To each of the main piers is firmly fastened a steel tower one hundred feet high, and upon these towers rest the trusses and cantilevers of the superstructure. The distance from center to center of shore piers is two thousand six hundred and ninety-two feet, which is cov- ered by five principal spans, each a little more than five hundred feet in length. The · base of the rail is two hundred and twelve feet above the water at flood tide. The length of the whole structure from the abut- nlcnts on the east side of Washington street, Poughkeepsie, to that in the open country on the west side is six thousand seven hun- dred 1nd sixty-seven feet, or more than one a1td one-fiftlz 1niles. The floor of the bridge carries a double track railway and a footway on each side, protected by a substantial iron railing. It is capable of sustaining at atly point two eighty-five ton engines, each draw- ing a train of three thousand pounds weight per running foot. This is fifty per cent. greater strength than \vas required in the Niagara cantilever bridge, and is practically equivalent to a train of locomotives on each track extending the whole length of the bridge. The '' factor of safety'' is five, or, in other words, the estimated load that would be required to break the bridge down is five times as great as that above given. The foundations of the piers contain, in round n L1 n1bers, twelve million feet of timber and forty thousand cubic yards of concrete, and the piers themselves about t\venty thousand cubic yards of masonry. The superstructure of the n1ain bridge contains about fifteen thousand tons of steel and the viaducts six thousand tons of iron. Ten miles above Poughkeepsie on the same side of the river is Hyde Park. This pretty village was named after Lady Anne Hyde, a British lady of renown. On the west bank, nearly opposite Hyde Park, is the harnlet of West Park. Staatsburgh comes next to Hyde Park on the east bank. This vicinity is noted for its handsome country residences. The view from William B. Dins- more's estate is wide, varied and beautiful, and a 1 ittle farther north the elegant man- _sion of Vice-President Morton, and the path leading down to his boat-house on the shore, are plain I y seen. From this point looking across on the west bank of the Hudson, the peach orchards and vineyards of Esopus are seen, while in the distance is the peaceful Valley of Wallkill, famous for its dairy pro- ducts. The island in the river here is Esopus Island, on which will be noticed a large light-house known by the same name. We have reached Rhinebeck where the ferry- boat \Transport\ ·will quickly convey us to

.. ~ 1-' ' •,, < .. '!.• ~-~~ {, -- ~ .. ~ ..... I. _; ~ ·. was .. ,. ·' ··. .. _. ( .··· but · ..... !v-· ~ : ... . .r: •• ..... .:{. ; .... ~ ~ .• r • ..._ ·: ; _:: . ~ ·. '. ' • ,< • \ ~' J ,\) ;, 2!-j ' ~ . I . : l· •;f, . ·, ~' '.. ... ~\ <' : , ... . I ,. ' - - - - - . ~ - - - - -- - - --- --- - ---- ------ ------------- VoL. XIV. UNION COLLEGE, APRIL r8, r89r. No·. r3. .. ---=-:= -:--:-=::::--===:..~_:__..:.:. --.:.---=---....:::::--- _ __:__-:: ____ -_ -: ___ --:- ______ _ -::_ per running foot. 'This is fifty per cent. greater strength than was required in the Niagara cantilever bridge, and is practically equivalent to a train of locomotives on: each ·M·?NG the greatest. bri~ges in the world tirack extending the whole !length :of the ~ 1s the Poughkeepsre bndge. Approach· bridge. The \ factor of safety'' is five, or, ing it from the north or south it appears like . in other words, the estimated load that an im.mense structure suspended ,in the air : would be required to break the bridge down from the hilltops on either side of the river. is fiv,e times as great as that above .given. The eastern viaduct alone is more than half The foundations of the piers conta~in, in a mile long, with twenty-four spans, the first round n:Jmbers, twelve million feet of timber from: the river's edge being one hundred and and forty thousand cubic yards of concrete, seventy-five feet long and nearly two hun- and the piers themselves about twenty dred teet high. There are six main piers, thousand cubic yards of masonry. The one located on each shore and four in the superstructure of tbe n1ain bridge contains river's channeL There are also two anchor- about fifteen thousand tons of steel and the ages of masonry, one hundred and twenty- viaducts six thousand tons of iron. ALONG THE HUD:SON. eight \pony piers\ and two abutments at Ten miles above Poughkeepsie on the the ends of the viaducts. To each of the same side of the river is Hyde Park. This main piers is firmly faslencrl a steel tower pretty village was named after Lady Anne one hundred feet high, and upon these Hyde, a British lady of renown. On the towers rest the trusses and cantilevers of the west bank, nearly opposite Hyde Park, is the superstructure. The distance from center · harnlet of West Park. Staatsburgh comes to center of shore piers is two thousand six next to Hyde Park on the east bank. This hundred and ninety-two feet, which is cov- vicinity is noted for its handsome country ered by five principal spans, each a little ;. residences. The view from William B. Dins- more than five hundred feet in length. The · ~more's estate is wide, varied and beautiful, base of the rail is two hundred and twelve and a little farther north the elegant man- feet above the water at flood tide. The _sion of Vice-President Morton, and the path length of the whole structure from the abut- ;Jeading down to his boat-house on the shore, rncnts on the east side of Washington street, are plainly seen. From this point looking Poughkeepsie, to that in the open country across on the west bank of the Hudson, the on the west side is six thousand seven hun- peach orchards and vineyards of Esopus are dred '::l.nd sixty-seven feet, or more than Olle seen, while in the distance is the peaceful and one-jifth miles. The floor of the bridge Valley of Wallkill, famous for its dairy pro- carries a double track railway and a footway ducts. The island in the river here is Esopus on each side, protected by a substantial iron 1 Island, on which will be noticed a large railing. It is capable of sustaining at apy i light· house known by the same name We point two eighty-five ton engines, each draw- I have reached Rhin~beck where the ferry- ing a train of three thousand pounds weight j boat \Transport \ will quickly convey us to

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. Rondout on the west side. Rondout is the lower portion of the City of Kingston, which · is hid from view on the river by hills. Kingston, like Newburgh, is hallowed Revo- lutionary ground. It was here that the Constitution of New York State was adopted and where the first L.egislature met. From Rhinebeck to Catskill, a distance of about twenty :miles, the main objects of in- terest are the Catskill Mountains so plainly visible a short distance back fro·m the west · shore. As mountain su.mmer resorts the Catskills are second to none in America. Thousands of tourists annually spend their summer vacation iu those mountains so noted for wild and rugged scenery and healthful climate. No more charming descrirJtion of the Cats- kills could be written than that given to us nearly a century ago by Washington Irving, in his opening sentences ·Of the '' Legend of Rip Van Winkle.\ He says: \Whoever has made a voyage up the Hudson n1ust re- . member the Kaatskill Mountains. They are \' a dismembered branch of the great Appala- chian fan1ily, and are seen away to the west of the river, swelling up to a noble height, and lording it over the surrounding country. Every change of season, every change of weather, indeed, every hour of the day, pro- duces sorne change in the magic hues and shapes of these mountains; and they are regarded by all good wives, far and near, as perfect barometers. When the weather is fair and settled, they are clothed in blue and purple, and print their bold outlines on the clear evening sky; but sometin1es, wh_en the . rest of the landscape is cloudless, they will gather a hood of gray vapors about their sun1mi ts, which, in the last rays of the set- ting sun, will glow and light up like a crown · of gloi·y.\ Such were these mon ntains in the times of Irving, and such they are to-day. One familiar with the legend instinctively thinks, as he gazes at the rising hills, of the eccentric Rip and his twenty years' sleep in the mountain, his dog Wolf and his shrew- ish dame. To this day travellers are shown the hole mqde in the rock by Rip's head during the years of his protracted ~leep. The hotels '' KaaterskHl\ and \ Mountain House,'' two of the largest and best equipped summer hotels in this country, are plainly visible though situated n1ore than twelve miles back from the river. The village of Catskill, 1 IO mi:'les from New York, is ot1 the west bank of the river. It contains thirteen hundred inhabitants and is connected with the n1ountains by the Cats- kill Mountain Railway. '91. AN APPEAL FOR TRACK ATH- LETICS. ~T is now about time that Union manifested ij some interest in field day sports. It is a deplorable state of affairs when a college can win b~th base-ball and foot-ball pennants in the State League and then have no represen- tative at the annual field day. The Athletic Association of Union Col- lege is getting to be a farce; every year officers are elected, but seemingly for effect and Gar1iet publication. The officers are not wholly to blame for this condition of affairs, but the whole college. Notices for a college , field day have been posted, and a nurnber of names have been handed in as entries, but no contestants ever appeared. To use the slang phrase, \it has mape the officers tired.\ Such has been the state of Union's athletics for the past few years. We have always had a Nine and Eleven in the field, but never a good athletic team·, if any. The only reason that I can give for such a lacK of interest in this branch of athletics is, that those men who were and are most fitted for these sports ·would not train for the races, and have showed a decided lack of interest in them.

THE CONC,ORDIENSIS. 133 ------------~ --------- ----~--------------. Now what can be done if the leaders, if · ----The junior Hop, which was to have taken we can call them such, wiU not take part in place on the 1oth inst., has been postponed. the field days? -~~ Some of the bridges over the creek in Union,men are· notorious for not training. Captain Jacks.on's garden are in an unsafe It does not reflect any credit upon them. condition and are sadly in need of repairs. The reason why the Nine· and the Eleven · were successful was that we had exception- :. -The attractions at the local play houses for the next two weeks are: At Centre ably good material a_nd a great deal of prac- . tice. Street opera house-McGibbney Family, There m·ust be a hearty co-operation of . April 27; minstrels, April 29; G:ilmore's the students with the officers of the Ath- . Fam-ous Band, May. The season will close letic Association, and also~ conscientious with \Parlor Match\ May , 2 3· training on the ·part of the contestants in the · -Much interest is being created over the coHege field in order to rnaintain our posi- , tug-of-war between tean1s from the Fresh~ tion in the college world. man and Sophomore classes, which is to take A spring field day should be held about place as one of the events of field day. May Ist, and ten entries at least (by entries There will also be an exciting relay race be- I do not mean names, but individuals who tween teams from these two classes. w-ill participate) for every event; and then -Prof. Maurice Perkins has been elected competent judges should select those show- as the Faculty member of the College Ath- ing the best prospects to go to the Inter- letic Advisory Board, and A. v. v. Ray- collegiate. And these men must be made d ., R c AI d '8 d w mon , 75, . . exan er, o, an . n1. to train and the college should send them to P. Landon, '86, are three of the alumnj the meeting. members. The fourth one is yet to be I sincerely hope that this may have some elected. effect in promoting the athletic interests of Union College. G. H. c., 'go. -~Hear the Glee Club !n the chapel _M()n- day evening. -G. H. Daley has been prevented by ill- ness fron1 returning to college on time. -~~ ]. V. Wemple, of the junior class, has been unanin1ously elected to the office of .V\\oot Ball Director. -The first regular game of the season played by the Varsity nine will take place at Oneonta on Saturday, April 25. -L. E. Roe, a forn1er student at and a member of the class of '91, . town for a short visit last week. Union, . was 1n -Every student who possibly can should attend Professor Wells' lectures on Alaska, as they are proving to be extremely interest- ing. Quite a large number of people from town are availing themselves of this oppor- tunity of learning something about Alaska. -. The start of the athletic, canoeing, lawn tennis and cycling season is coincident \vith a new departure in Outing, which contest- ants and spectators alike will appreciate, 8.nd secretaries of clubs will welcome as a boon. Its April nun1 ber contains a table of the best \records\ and champions of I 8go, which are not only authorative and accurate, but handv and clear as well. The ball nine is _, practicing daily and gives protnise of doing excellent work this season. [NOTE. This is a statement that is now appearing in about every college vaper in the country.]

• 134 THE 'CONCORDIENSlS. P.UBE.ISHED SEMI-MOKII'HLY BY STUDENTS oF UNION CoLLEGE. .BOARD OF EDITORS. B. c. LITTL'E, '91' W. A. Me DoNALD, '91, ~ HOMER B. WILLJAMS, '92, ) E. J. PREST' '92. - L. H. CARRIS, '93, ]. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FERGUSO~, '9I, G. F. MosHER, '92, H. D. MERCHANT, ~93, } ~ EDITOR -IN-CHIEF. AssociATES. LITERARY EDITOR. AssiSTANTS. BusiNESs MANAG,ER. ASSISTANTS. TERMS, $z.oo PER YEAR, IN AnvA~CE. SINGLE CoPIES, IS CENTS. We desire our friends to send us contt ibutions, items of intefest and information concerning Alumni. ': world t·hat there is a class in Union college that has faiTed, through ehher utter careless- ness or inability, to publish the regular coHege annual, when in contrast they might have done their coflege a good deal of good by publishing a book of which Union mjght be proud. The whole board is to blame for ·. the present deplorable state of affairs that exists in regard to Garnet matters, and there- fore the whole hoard deserves the severest sort of criticism ; hut perhaps some are more to blame than others. There are two or three rnen represented on the board who at times have been v-villing to work hard, and Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers p:mmptly will kindly notify Business · Manager. who have been enthusiastic over getting QUt a good Garnet, but the editor-in-chief and the business editor, the only men who All remittances should be made and sent to THE CqNCORDIENSIS Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. Y ., as second-clas5 matter. Chas. Burrow-s, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenectady, N. Y. should do the greatest share of the work, have not been among those two or three .. There is another phase of the mattet: that those eight men should regard. It is sup- posed to reflect some credit upon your societies if you produce a creditable Garnet, and especially is it deemed a mark of honor ~~1-P to· this time we have neglected to do · to those societies whose representatives are ~~ any fau1t-finding with the editors of at the heads of the editorial and business the Garnet about their seetningly lax methods departments of the college annual ; but now of working on their book and about the ap- if you fail ingloriously to produce a Garnet, parent indifference with which they have it will undoubtedly reflect to some degree, looked forward to its publication, because we although perhaps. unjustly, upon your have thought that it was scarcely our place • societies, something which, as long as each to criticise them and their methods of work one of you is loyal to his society, none of before the result of their work, in the shape you care to have happen. After this great of the Garne-t, appeared. Now, however, amount of fault fin·ding, perhaps a few words when the editorial board are debating · of encouragen1ent will be agreeable. Don't whether to have any Gar1zet at ·an this year, give up the ship yet! Begin anew, with a and the prospects at present being that no fixed determination to get out your Gc:rnet, Garnet will he pub1ish ed by them, it seems : and you will find the hardest part of your a fit time to say something on the subject. work is over. It does not of necessity take If no Garnet appears this year, the eight i two terms, or even one term, to make up a men who were appointed as editors, and who . book the size of the Gar1zet. You have two were supposed to see that it did appear, d~- months in which to work, and in that time serve, and will undoubtedly gain an unenvia- · it is possible to get out a better publication ble reputation for doing their college a good · than has ever represented Union, and also deal of harm, by showing to the college to make it pay fi nanciaUy, for· the plan of

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 135 having it on sale just at commencem,ent time will prove, as you will find, of much advantage to you in the way of selling a large number of copies. But to do this wi11 require work, and pretty hard work at first. It will take time-perhaps that you have been accustbmed to put upon your studies, but you are all good students and can afford to take some respite from your studies; rnoreover, the work of collecting \ ads,'' drumm.ing up subscriptions, writing articles and reading proof, will teach you a good many lessons that you will learn in no other way while in college. You will undoubtedly h'ave to give up some pleasures in order to devote yourselves to your work ; but for the sake of your c1ass, your co1lege, and your society, try and deny yourselves a little and thus get out a Garnet. There are other men besides yourselves who have work to do outside of the regular collegiate duties. The foot- ball manager did sotne of the hardest kind of work last term, not because he liked it, but for the sake of doing his college some good. The base-ball ·management, includ- ing as it does the management of college operas and n1agic lantern exhibitions, is full of disappointments and hard work, and, to be egotistical, it is no easy n1atter to get out the CoNCORDIENSIS twice a month, and it is often a pretty d~scouraging and thankless task. Yet all these undertakings have their pleas- ures and encouragements, and it is an unva- rying truth that to those undertakings-foot- ball, base-ball, the Garnet, the CoNCORDIENSIS and the like, for which we work so hard while in college-to those things will we look back in after days with the n1ost de- light, and the n1emories of our triafs and struggles with those undertakings will re- main longest and be, above all else, the re- minders of the good old times had in coBege. Work, then, ye Juniors, on your Gar1zet, and thus have something that in future years you may look upon with a great deal of pride and the happiest of recollections. You now ap- pear to be a lot of good-looking, studious men without much class or college spirit. You can very easily show that you have a good deal of spirit by getting out a Garnet by co-tnmencement time. The editors of last year's Garnet are willing to help you all they can, and they are capable of helping you a good deal. Don't let the class of '92, which was the first class to .check Union's down\vard ·Career, and which, by entering a goodly number of men, turned the tide in Union's favor-don't let that class he the first to break the long line of Garnets which mark the existence of the last thirty-five or tbirty-six classes which have graduated from Old Union. * * * .L'\.GAIN does the base-ball management call upon the students and their friends to sup- port an entertainment to be given for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the base- ball season, and again does the management offer an entertainn1ent which promises to be well worth the price of admission. For these two reasons the chapel ought to be \comfortably filled,\ as the papers have it, on Monday evening, when Mr. Butler, with his splendid views of college athletes and athletic events, and the college Glee Club, with its quota of Union College songs, will unite in giving a very pleasing evening's en- joyment. To those who may be inclined to grumble at the idea of having· a second en- tertainment for the base-ball association, we would state that a great share of the pro- ceeds of the Pinafore performance have been used up in paying debts that were left over fron1 last season. * * * WE owe an apology to Hobart College; and we are very much obliged to the Hobart Herald for calling our attention to a mis- statement that appeared in this paper some

\ THE C,ONCORDIENSIS. time ago. Throue-h no fault of ours, for the . A II I At th fi t t' f h L.JO ·RT. · ... -· · ·• · ·,e . rs mee 1ng o . t e Secretary of the Inter-collegiate Base-ball · Board an Auditor shall be elected who shall Associatian had so stated, there appeared in t b b f th B d d h no e a mem er o • e · oar., an. w o these colun1ns a statement to the effect that shall audit the accounts of the Treasurer and Union College was the only college in the, report them to the Board. l~ague that had complied with the rule re- ART. IV.-The duties of tpe President quiring each c:J:ub to send in to the secretary shall he to call and preside at all meetings a score of each game played on the home of the Board. grounds. The Hobart Herald says that the · The duties of the Vice-president shall be Hobart club also obeyed this rule, and we to perform the duties of the President- in his take great pleasure in stating the fact. The absence or disability. students of Union College have always been on the best of terms with the Hobart stu- The duties of the Secretary shall be to dents, and Union College teams, when visit- issue by letter the call 'for all meetings of ing Geneva, have always, to the best of our the Board, at ieast seven days before the knowledge, been treated like gentlemen by hour of tneeting. He shall keep an accurate gentlemen, and therefore when we have record of all the votes and other doings of made any mistatement vvhich reflects on the the Board, in a book provided for that pur.;. characters of Hobart students we arc> very pose, in which, also, shall .be written· the glad to correct 1t and apologize for iL Constitution and By-Laws of the Board. He shall also record the place, time, score, and THE ATHLETIC ADVISORY BOARD. l HE first meeting of the Athletic Ad vis- ~ ory Board was held Tuesday afternoon. Mr. Robertson called the meeting t0 order and the Board proceeded to perm anent organization. Prof. Perkins was elected president; H. W. Preston, 'gr, vice-president; T. H. H .. ob- ertson, 'gr, secretary; and W. A. McDon- ald, 'gr, treasurer. The Board then adopted the following by-laws : ARTICLE I.-The officers of the Board shail be a President, Vice-president, Secre- tary, Treasurer and Executive Comtnittee consisting of five members, namely: .the fac- ulty n1ember and the undergraduate mem , hers. ART. II.-. The election of officers shall be by ballot, at the first meeting of the Board. The officers shall be elected for terms of one year. expense of all official games and contests. He shall notify the chairman of each ._,._com- tnittee chosen by the Board of his appoint- ment, and each individual of any duty as- signed hitn by the Board. 1~he duties of the Treasurer shall be to receive and account for all the money of the Board in whatever way placed in their hands. He shaH pay out money for all general pur- poses only on the vvritten order of the Exec- utive Committee. All of his accounts shall be kept in a book prepared for the purpose, which shall be open for inspection at any tin1e to members of the Board. The duties ·of the Executive Con1mittee shall be to act upon all questions which shal) require attention between the meetings of the Board. They shall submit all such action for approval to the Board at its nex-t meet~ ing. A meeting of the Executive Commit- tee shall be held at any time that any mem- ber of said comtnittee may request such rneeting, provided that all the members of said committee shall have been notified.

THE CONC,ORDIENSIS. 137 ART. VI.-The head of any association: THE ENTERT AlNMENT FOR THE may draw from the treasury a sum not to i BALL NINE. exceed ten dollar~ for urgent expenses, pro- On Momday evening, April 20, in the col- vided that the association which he repre-: ~ege chapel, there will be given a novel sents stands credited with that an1ount. entertainment for the benefit of the Base- ART. VII.-. Three me1nhers of the Board' ball Association. Mr. W. H. Butler, a recent shall constitute a quorum for transaction of, graduate of Sheffield School, the scientific business, provided there be present at least , departm.en t of Ya.1e University, will, with his two undergraduates. elegant ster·eopt~i.con present a large num her * ART. VIII.- These By-Laws may be ad- of very interestin·g views of prominent ath- ded to, altered, amended, or repealed by a . ~ietic events that have taken place during the two-thirds vote of the members present at · past few years among the American colleges. any regular meeting, or special meeting · He has a nut1J,ber of oictures of the Matt J. called for that purpose, provided that the Haven athletic teans, and also different addition, alteration, amendment or repeal is :views of the exciting inter-coJlegiate races left with the secretary and notice thereof that take place each year at New London, given to each member one week, at least, · not to mention a nulllber of intensely inter- before said meeting. esting scenes from the base-ball and foot- Professor Truax was chosen Auditor for ball field. Besides these he has photographs the Board. which are exceHent likenesses of all the lead- After ordering the purchase of a set of i'ng and well-known athletes of the colleges books for the Secretary and Treasurer and throughout the country. Mr. Butler is, n1aki ng a careft:ll estimate of the base ball n1oreover, a very entertaining talker and has expenses for the coming season the Board something to say about each of his pictures. adjourned. He describes each e,vent in an interesting The Board now consists of the following and accurate manner fro-m the stand-point e~ght members, with one vacancy to be filled of an eye witness. [ n addition to this enter- at the next college meeting: tainment the ,Glee club has kindly consented Prof. Maurice Perkir .. s. to sing a number of selections, and thts part Rev. Dr. A. V. V. Raymond, of Albany. of the evening's performance will by no Robert C. Alexander, of New York. · means be the least enjoyable, for the listen- William P. Landon, of St. Paul. ing to college songs when we11 sung, as they Henry Preston, '91. undoubtedly wiU be, is about as pleasant ·~ Tracy H. Robertson, '91. ·.way as possible to spend an evening. The Willian1 A. McDonald, '91. · price of admission has been fixed at fifty George H. Daley, '92. cents, and every student, together with his • friends, should be present, for the cause is a -J. 0. Reynolds, '93, who has been ill so ·. good one, the entertainment an excellent long with typhoid fever, is now at his home one, and the exrense is not large. and is slowly regaining his health. Ail of the n1embers of the Beta Theta Pi Society, of which Mr. Reynolds is a member, are unanirnous in their praise of Professor and Mrs. Truax, who so kindly took Mr. Rey- nolds into their own hon1e and took ·Care of him during the greater part of his illness. __,_The base-hall season tickets in the ·shape of new garnet buttons are now on sale. They are very pretty and much tnore con- venient to wear than the garnet ribbon, which constituted the season ticket last year. Every lady sbould wear the button.

138 THE CONCORDIENSIS. OB1TUARY. ~dward Dorr Griffin Prim.e died at This hon1e in New York city, Tuesday, :.l\pril J. .. . . . ... \<!:9' ., ' ,,· ,- ,. . . . : ': . ' ' I I •I • I . . ·• For mor.e than thirty-two years he was assn- · ciated with his brother, the Rev. Dr. S. I. ; Prime, in the editorial work of the New : Homeopathic ~edieal CniiBye nnd Hn$pital · 6~ \d'Y .... York Observer. He was born at Can1 bridge,, N. Y., November 2, r8o4 .. He ·enter:ed Union College during the Presidency of Dr. Cor. 63d S-treet & Eastern Boulev-ard, N.Y. City. Nott, and graduated in IR3 2 , in his l8th , SESSION BEGINS OCT. 1, 1891. • OLOSES APRIL 1, 1892. year, taking one of the honors .of his class- : . BHE course of instruction is carefully graded, beginning in laboratory the Latin Oration. He was a member of: ~work and didacti~ teaching in Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology and Histology. In these branches the students are provided with chemical the Kappa Alpha So iet I 1 g· 3 5 h apparatus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, microscopes, and all instru- •' ' ' : i c y. ~ n ' ' e en- ments and material requisite fora thorough knowledge of the various sub- tered Pr~inceton Theological Seminary, and jects taught. The Seniors are carefully instructed in General and Special Pathol- graduated froln there three years later. In ogy, Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as appliedto all forms of disea!>e. Clinical instntction constantly supplements the lectures, material being 1853 he took his place as editor of theN ew supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College.' Bed-side instruction is given in the diseases of Children, and in Obstetrics. Oper- Y ork Observer with which pa· per he ·bad· ations in General Surgery and Gynaecology at the Flower Hospital . · ' . . ' . '· • · · ·.. · • · , adjoining the College, and Laura Franklin Hospital for Children. corr~esponded for many years under the sig- . T. F. ALLEN, M.D., LL.D., .Dean. nature of Euselius. He spent the winter of I 8 54-55 in Rome, officiating as chaplain of the American Embassy under the appoint- ment of the American and Foreign Christian Union. In 1857 he received the degree of D. D. from Jefferson College, Pennsylvania. Besides contributing largely to several vol- u n1es which were issued without his name, he has published a number of books on civil and religious questions. I , /George G. Leland, a well-known citizen of Mount PI easan t, S. C., died of col:)4s u mp- tion on Sunday, March 29. He was born .in 1859 and was educated at Union College, fron1 w hie h he graduated with distinction in '8 I. While in co1lege his efficiency, espec- ially in matherr1atics, was remarkable. After leaving college he accepted a position as teacher in the High Schools of Charleston, which for years he filled with err1inent satis- faction. About a year ago he was obliged, on account of his dis ease, to leave his posi- tion as teacher, and si nee then, up to the time of his death, he w~s engaged in farn1- . tng. For information and announcement, address the Secretary, L. L. DANFORTH, M.D., 35 WEST 5IST ST., N.Y. CITY. ILLVSTRATED CATALOGVE FREE ~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 139 ~ ==================================~===================================== Ed\vard Walton Watkins, a member of the . class of '8o, di~ed ~ery su~d enl y at his horne in this city on Tuesday, April 7· fie was a very popular young man, and his sudden death was a great shock to his many friends. :. His funeral took place Friday afternoon and \VaS attended by a large number of Union ' m·en. His only near living relative was his brother, Delancy W. Watkins, who VJ'as also • a mem her of the cla~s of 'So at Union. · '52. Ex-congressman Henry A. Reeves· has been elected supervisor from the town of Senthold, Suffolk county, N. Y. '55. Rev. Dr. Sheldon Jackson, the able · representative of the Government in the Ed- . ucational and Missionary work of Alaska has been in New York city, and has given very · in_teres~ing talks upon Alaska in different I churches. '6o. Hon. Warner Miller, President of the Nicaragua Canal company, vvith his party, was wrecked on Roncada Reef, roo miles from Greytown, while going to n1ake a tour of inspection of the canal. After three days waiting on a desert island the party were taken off safe and sound. General Danie Butterfield, '49, was one of the party. '78. At the city election, Tuesday, April 8, Everett Smith, Republican, was elected mayor of Schenectady. ~-- -- ·------------------~------- ------- ------- -- -- \ HIGH CLASS CIGARETTE '' LATE:ST ENGLISH,,, AND THE STANDARD O~THE WORLD, \' SWEET CAPOHAL.\ The stock used 'tn the marzu[acture of this Cigar is the mojt expensive ·if any five-cett t Cigar ever put on the tnar.ket. It is really a ten-celd Cigar for jive cents. Competition drove us 'to it, $. '· ---- STRAIGHT R ~- ~~ 1:::' 1t.vr BE· 00 · = ,&lf.I:J.'!I!~.&.Y.,., -- < ~, The Price is 5 Cents.-N ot 10 Cents.

COLUMBIA COLLir-:GE, IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK. COLUMBIA COLLEGE IN THE CITY OF NEW YORI<: at the present titne consists ot the SC:fi 00 L OF ARTS, the original college, founded in r 754; of sundry professional schools, to wit: the SCHOOL OF LAW, the SCHOOL OF MINES, and its Medical Departtnent by joint reso~lution, the COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS, adtnission to all of ·which, as candidates for professional degrees, is open to all students, whether or not they are col- lege-bred rnen ; and of the UNIVERSITY FACULTIES OF LAW, MINES (Mathen1atics and Pure and Applied Science), POLITICAL SCIENCE, and PHILOSOPHY, which conduct all courses leading to the university deg~ ee of MASTER OF ARTS an~ DOCTOR OF PHI- LOSOPHY. The point of contact between the college and the university is the senior year in the School of Arts, during which year students in the School of Arts pursue their studies, -vvith the consent of the Faculty of Arts, under one or tnore of the University Faculty. The various schools are under the charge of their own faculties, and for the better conduct of the strictly university work, as well as of the whole institution, a University Council has been established. I. THE SCHOOL OF ARTS. The School of Arts, or the college proper has a curriculum of four ye~rs' duration leading to the degree 13achelor of Arts. Candidates for adt11ission to the School of Arts tnust be at least fifteen years of age and pass an exan1ination on prescribed 'Subjects, the particulars concerning which rnay be found in the annual Circular of Inforn1ation. · IL THE UNIVERSITY FACULTIES. 1\'he University Faculties of Law, Mines ( lV1athe111atics and Pure and Applied Science), Political Science, and Philosophy, taken to- gether constitute the University. These univer- sity faculties offer advanced courses of gtudy and inv.estigation, respectively, in (a) J;'rivate or Municipal Law, (b) Mathetnatics and Pure and Applied Science, (c) History, Econotnics, and Public Law, and (d) Philosophy, Philo- logy, and I..Jetters. Courses of study under one or more of these university faculties are open to metnbers of the senior class in the School of Arts and to all students who have successfully pursued an equivalent course of undergraduate study to the close of the junior year. These lead through the bachelor's degree to the univer- sity degrees of Master of Arts and Doctor of ,Philosophy. III. 1\'HE PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS. 'rhe professional schools are the schools of · SET::S: LO-v\r, LL. D . ., Law, Mines, and Medicine, to w bich all stu- dents, as well those not having pursued a ·course of undergraduate study as those who have, are adtnitted on tenns pre·scribed by the faculty of each school a~ candidates for professional de- grees. r.- The School of Law, established in I 858, offers a three years' course of study in comtnon law and equity jurisprudence, tnedical jurispru- dence, critninal and constitutional law, interna- tional law public and private, and comparative jurisprudence. The degree of Bachelor of Laws is conferred on the satisfactory con1pletion of· the course. 2. The School of Mines. established in 1864, offtrs the following courses of study, each of four years' duration, and each leading to an ap- propriate professio11al degree, natnely, 111ining, engineering, civil engineering, 1netallurgy, ge- ology aud palreontology, analytical and applied chetnistry, architecture ; and the following as graduate courses_, each of two years' duration, and each leading to an apptopriate degree, nan~ ely, . sanitary engineering and electrical eng1neenng. 3· The College of Physician~ and Surgeons, by joint resolution· of June r8th, r86o, the Med- ical Departtnent of Cohunbia College, offers a three years' course of study in the princi pies and practice of tnedicine and surgery, leading to the degree of Doctor of Medicine (M. D.) - - Fresident. • I . l I

