-.>'. HARRISON E. WEBSTER, LL. D., PRESIDE NT OF UNION UNIVERSITY. J PHOTO GY

' I HARRISON E. WEBSTER·, LL. 0., PRESIDENT OF UNiQ~ UNIVERSITY. PHOTO BY l I I I

l i I ' ' J I' Ren1iniscences and Studies of the Class of 1 829, Union College. ·:'fll{EAT' changes have taken place since -_.) that t i n1 e i n t h e In e an s of t rave 1 and .. con1n1unications fro111 one part of our country ' to another. Your correspondent, leaving; his hon1c in Westchester county early in the n1orn i ng, took the stcan1 be) at fron1 New York, stopping opposite to Peek·skill on the Hudson ; and after a sail of ten or eleven , I hours on one of the finest and fleetest of i boats of that day, arrived in Albany at about 9 o'clock p. 111. 1\fter an bour's delay \Ve took the stage for Schenectady, reaching t h ere at abo u t 2 o'clock a. n1 . n c x t day, making the joun:cy in t\venty hours, which is now accon1plishcd fron1 New York in less t han four h o u r s. their lodgings in the colleges, even those having the i r res i d en c e i n t h e city. Two students were assigned to a roon1, and no on e co u 1 d h ave a s i n g 1 e roo n1 i f t h e college was full ; and t be students wer c rcq u i reel to f u r n ish t h e i r roo 111 s. 1~he Faculty of the college was: J)r. )Jott, president; ]Jr. Proudfit, professor of I.,atin an d Greek ; Dr. J o s 1 in, of n1 at h e m at i c s a n cl natural philosophy. J)rs. Potter and \Tates were absent in Europe during part of tbc juuior year and the \\'hole uf the senior year of I 829. ] oel B. N ott, non1inZ11ly professor of c he n1 is try , but not act i n g i n t hat capac i t r , gave a few 1 e c t u res u p on g co 1 D g y an cl 111 in cr. alogy. Dr. Jackson, w b on1 n1an y of t be n1ore recent alutnni will ren1en1ber, though tutor at that tin1e, acted as professor of chemistry, and was Yery successful in his illustrations and experin1ents in that science as then understood, but f~tr behind what it is at this time, csuecially in electricity and tnagnetism. The classical course was continued pretty extensively through the freshman and sopho- n1ore years, and sometin1cs into tbc junior y car. 1{ he tori c, co tn posit i on and d c c 1 a n1 a- t i o n w c r e p r act icc d d uri n g t b e f1 r s t t h r e c years. 1,hc Greek course consisted of the selections contained in l)alziel's (;raeca l\1a- After procuring a little breakfast, with a f r i en cl w h o a c co n1 pan i e d n1 e, we p roc e e d e d to tbe college, and were ushered into the presence of two of the august professors for exan1ination, which was entirely oral and by no 1neans se\·ere, and I passed n1ore readily than bad been anticipated ancl quite satis- factory ~ o the professors, as they expressed t b c n1 s e 1 v e s, t h o ugh I was c x ~nn i n c cl for an advanced class and without any certificate fro n1 an y t c a c h e r. 'fhe colle<re buildin<r~ were very n1uch in b h - appearance as the north a11d south colleges are at present, with t\vo boarding halls, one north ancl one south of the college buildings; but students were not cotnpellecl, as in Yale an c1 so n1 e l> t her co 11 e g c s , to board in co n1- n1o n, but could p roc urc board in r cs pee table private fan1ilies, but not in hotels or restau- rants. All, however, were required to have 1 jora, one vohnne of prose fron1 the his- torians, orators and philosophLTS, another fro n1 t h e p oct s I I o n1 c r, l·l e ~ i o d, t h c t raged i- ans .L-l~scbylus, Sophocles and Euripides, with son1e minor poets. In Greek t h c on] y dic- tionary that could he readily procured was Screvilir's Greek, with Latin definitions. 1~he L,atin course was perhztps n1orc ex- tensive than that of the present day. It consisted of large port ions from th c philo-

l I I I ---- --------- VoL. XIV. UNION COLLEGE, MA \r z, r 89r. No. 14. ~==========-============:=========----- Reminls:cences and Studies of the Class · their lodgings in the colleges, even those having their residence in the city. Tw:o stadlents were assigned to a room, and no one could have a single room if the college of 1829, Union College. lREAT changes bave taken place sfnce ~.,[ that time in the means .of travel and comn1uni:cations frorn one part of our country to another. Your correspondent, leaving his home i:n Westchester county early in the morning, took the stean1boat from New York, stopping opposite. to Peek-skill on the Hudson ; and after a sail of ten or eleven hours on one of the finest and fleetest of boats of that day, arrived in Albany at about 9 o'clock p. rn. After an hour's delay we took the stage for Schenectady, reaching there at about 2 o'clock a. m. next day, n1aking the jourr.ey in twenty hours, which is now accomplished frotn New York in less than four hours. After pr()curing a little breakfast, with a friend who accompanied m;e, we proc-eeded to the college, and were ushered into the presence of h..vo of the august professors for exan1i natjom; wbi ch was entirely oral and by no means severe, and I passed more readily than had been anticipated and quite satis- factory to the professors, as they expressed themselves, though I was exan1ined for an ad varrced <:!lass and without any certificate from any tea.cher. The college building~ were very much in appearance as the north and south colleges are at present, with two boarding halls, one north and one south of the college buildings; but students were not compelled, as in Yale and some <>th er colleges, to board in ·Com- mon, but could procure board in respectable private fan1iHes, but not in hotels or restau- rants, All_, however, were required to have was full; and the students were required to furnish their rooms. The Faculty of the college was: Dr. Nott, president ; Dr. Proudfit, professor of Latin and Greek; Dr. Joslin, of mathematics and natural philosophy. Drs. Potter and Yates were absent in Europe during part of the junior year and the whole of the senior year · of 1829. Joel B. N ott, nominally professor · of chen1istry, but not acting in that capacity, gave a few lectures upon geology and miner· alogy. Dr. Jackson, whon1 many of the tnore recent alurnni will rem em her, though tutor at that time, acted as professor of chemistry, and was very successful in his illustrations and experiments in that science as then understood, but far behiQd what it is at this time, especially in electricity and magnetism. The classical course was continued pretty extensively through the freshman and sopho- nlore years, and sometin1es into the junior year. Rhetoric, cotnposition and declama- tion· were practiced during the first three years. The Greek course consisted of the selections contained in Dalziel's Graeca Ma- jora, one vohnne of prose from the his- torians, orators and philosophers, another from the poets Homer, Hesiod, the tragedi- ans.tEschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, with some minor poets. In Greek the only dic- tionary that could be readily procured was Serevilir's Greek, with Latin definitions. Tbe Latin course was perhaps more ex- tensive than that of the present day. It consisted ot large portions from the philo-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. sophical writings of Cicero, from the histories of Livy, Tacitus and Sa:llust, the odes and satires of Horace and J uvenal, and some- times of the meta-morphosis of Ovid. All the authors then, both Latin and Greek, were annotated with Latin notes, often more difHcul t to be read than the text which they were intended to illustrate. With all these difficulties, I am not sure but that the grad- uates of those days were not better scholars and better drilled in classical literature than those of the present day. The mathematical and scientific course, though equal perhaps to that of other col- leges, was not what it should have been. It consisted of algebra, plain and solid geome- try, plain and spherical trigonometry, with applications to surveying, navigation, astron- omy, etc.; also something of conic sections, analytical geometry, calculus and other branches of higher mathematics, so useful in estimating the various forces, powers and resistances which solids and fluids effect discussion: Before he was allowed to resume his seat he was asked if he thought that the sentiment there advanced by the author. was correct. The reply would probably be, ,., he supposed it was,\ as Kames was an author of considerable reputation. This, we sup- posed, would end the recitation for ourse~ves for the time being. But \V·e had but just begun, for we were required to give our reasons for our agreement with the author, and we were criticised upon our opini,ons upon the subject until the President and the student were pretty well satisfied upon tt1 e matter. Nor was this alL We were asked what use we were to .make of what we had learned when we went out into the world, for if we could make no use of the infor·ma- tion we were acquiring, our labor was j n . vain. In this way,, in the course of the year, almost every subject of moral and menta[ philosophy and of the operations, passions and emotions of the mind were brought up and discussed. The student was allowed to upon each other; also in the investigation ask the Doctor any question in return and of the various curved lines and surfaces, and to differ fro1n him if he could give any valid in astronorny in estimating the exact motions and sensible reason for it, and the more and positions of the heavenly bodies. , questions asked and opinions advanced the The senior year at Union was the most I better the Doctor seemed pleased with him, instructive and the best etnployed by the so that son1etimes two or three students only students of any college in the United States. were called upon to recite during the hour. We had regularly three recitations each day This also induced those students desirous of for five days in the week up to the tin1e of making the best use of the opportunities our last examination. We had two full terms they possessed to consult the writings of in chemistry with Prof. Jackson, one term Locke, Stewart, Reid and Brown, which each of optics and of astronomy under Prof. were accessible in the libraries of the col- } oslin, with lectures on geology and miner- lege. alogy with Prof. J. B. Nott. But the most In addition .to recitations in the classes, valuable and interesting lessons of all, once there were three literary societies, which each day throughout the whole senior year, held regularly two sessions of three hours were those with the President. The text each every Saturday for mutual improve- book used was Kames' Elements of Criti- ment in writing essays, declan1ation, de bat- , cism, but almost any other book woul~ have ing, etc., and in freely criticising each other's answered as ~well, even old Richard's AI- labors. • manac. The student was called upon to For out-door athletic exercises, there was recite a paragr~ph or two a~ a subject for a small gymnasium erected between the two

THE CON:CORD1ENS1S. 143 -------~------------ --- . -- - -- ---~-------------- -- -· colleges, consisting of some ladders, hand- The class of'29 numbered eighty-two grad- rails and ropes for swinging, etc. We had uates, the largest of any one preceding it; no ball playing or rowing matches.to n1eet but succeeding ones were generally much with students of other institutions, \Vhich larger for twenty years, until they reached have become so popular of late, often, as we 109, the largest in number at that time of think, injurious to the health of the body any college in the country. Though none and detrimental to the improvement of the have risen to the highest pinnacle of fame, mind. .~ there were quite a large proportion of pro- For a few years, however, companies were fessional gentlemen, more than thirty of the organized, which met through the spring and law, some of whom have been senators and early summer, during the short intervals o,£. judges in the States of their adoption, some study hours, for military drill, and a week . fifteen clergymen, two of whom were pro- before commencement they took a tour fessors in theological seminaries, two presi- through the country, prepared with a mili- dents of colleges, several physicians and tary .outfit of dress and cap, with musket, some teachers. While other and older in- knapsack, tents,. provisions, etc., for the s:titutions have had hundreds of thousands week. About fifty of the class of' 29, with a of dollars poured in to their treasuries, we few juniors, started the last Monday of June, hope that Union vvill not be forgotten and passing through Saratoga or Glens Falls, and that the alurnni and their friends, who have reaching Lake George about Wednesday the means, will enable the present efficient noon, camping out at night in our tents and management to replace Union College, or taking our n1eals soldier-like, halting at the University, among the most prominent lit- roadside. The next day we left for Fort Ed- erary institutions of our country. v1ard, took a canal boat for Waterford, thence I-1. S. BANKS, Class '29. by road through Troy to Albany. We camped in the lobby of the Capitol. The Mayor furnished us \Vith a fine breakfast, and rhe corporation of the city, for our bravery and laborious and dangerous expedition and extraordinary services, with a hearty dinner. Saturday being the Fourth of July, the mili- tia were out on parade, and we were highly honored with the position on the right of the regiment. Major Worth, of the regular anny, said we were the best drilled corps he had ever seen excepting the cadets at West Point. We took stage in the afternoon for Schenectady, where we arrived about 8 o'clock, marched up to college in military style and were disbanded without a pension, but soon afterwards were honored wit11 a sheepskin for our labors. I forgot to say that Captain Jackson was the commander of the expedition. This, I think, ended tbe military services of the class. A LETTER FROM ''ELI.\ MoosoMIN, AssA., April 16, 1891. ( (Near the Rocky Mountains.) ~ Editor Co1tcor.dz'ensis: I this day order my publishers, Belford Clark Co., Chicago, to send CoNCORDIENSIS my new book, '' Kings of Platform and Pulpit,\ just published, from which you have complimented me by using some advance sheets. You see, the book has been indorsed by Kings and Cardinals and Presidents. The .. publishers wanted me to get testin1onials from Moses anrl Abraham, but I drew the line on the prophets and stubbornly refused to write to them. Yours, truly, MELVILLE D. LANDON, (\Eli Perkins\). 208 West End avenue, New York. I have just completed a new house, 208 West End avenue, New York, where I will be glad to see all friends of Union. I love college boys and keep a special room for them. M. D. L.

tHE CONC:ORDIENSIS. THE PATHOS OF POETRY. point me. I do not ask any pecuniary re- HE n1ail which reaches the editors of a : turn, but would, of course, be pleased by a magazine is always interesting, even if: small return for niywork. It has had printed , compliments from the men who sent it back. it be not always pleasing, and it is as varied ' * Yours, truly, as the colors of the rainbow. Sometimes a: letter is full of such scorching sarcasm and : fault-finding that it fairly burns one's fingers.· to open it. Someti m.es a letter will contain bit~ of humor and wit as sparkling and as ·· delicious as the water from the old spring in Captain Jack's garden, and so11tet£mfs en- closed vve find a check for two dollars, the subscription price of this paper, and once again do our fingers burn-with impatience to get that check cashed. The following letter is a still different kind. The deep pathos, expressed and unexpressed, which it contains is son1.ething to think over. We gladly publish the poem, and hope that its author will soon reach the highest round on the ladder of fame. Perhaps we are influ- enced by a sort of compassionate fellow- feeling for the writer·· and perhaps also by the thought that the writer is a young woman (young and therefore beautiful); but, in any case, we think we see some merit in the poetry, and we hope others will recognize it also. In regard to the \pecuniary return,\ we feel obliged, against our will, to refuse it, as we are in the same state as the writer evidently is, namely, a state of financial em- . barrassment. For various reasons we with- hold the nan1e of the author, but when her name becomes fan1ous in the world of poetry then shall we take the liberty of stating that we were the first ones who publicly recog- nized her genius. Listen to her appeal: Editor-in- Chief C01zcordiens£s: A SUMMER GIRL. Gently swinging} There she li~s, In a hammock 'Neath the skies, Merry twinkling those cl:ear tves, As she's swinging. Softlv breezes ol Blow her hair, Wh He I wonder Does she care Who is sitting .by her there As she's swingi11g? Tho' ~weetly smiling Can I know She is happy Lying so, Would it matter should I go And leave her swinging ? Stepping lightly I depart, Slightly trembling Ig my heart, Another goes to play the part, To watch her swinging. Sadly sighing, Through the door I look backward Yet once more, She's ·lying happy as before, Gently swinging. ·Merry twinkling Still those eyes, Happy smiles Do still arise, A fire of hope once bright now dies, While yet she's swinging. DEAR SIR :-·I am informed that you would be likely to accept pretty little poems for , your paper, '.lnd am anxious for your approval and acceptance of the one I enclose. 1 sent it to several papers, but, you know, they are hard on these poets. Please do not disap- -The stereopticon entertainment netted quite a sum for the base-ball team, although it was not as great a financial success as had been expect~d. The pictures were excellent and the few· selections by the Glee Club were · well rendered.

THE CONCORD[ENSIS. I45 ----· --=-=-=----··================ IN AN, O'LD WINDOW CASING. (From Post-Intellt\ Seattle, Wash.) R. HANCOCK NA·GI..E, justice of the peace, has a re!Jic which he prizes highly-· the autograph of the late Chester A. Arthur. It was cut into a spruce board with a penknife when .z-\rthur was a student at Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., in 1853, over thirty-seven years ago. Mr. Nagle, who attended U--nion, was grad- uated in 1 88r. He says that when the pres- ident was at th·e college it was the custotn, of the boys to cut their names in the spruce window casings of the dormitory, and in 1855 every window casing was lined with tbe names of students. In 18 55 or '56 the trustees of the college concluded to renovate and repair the build- ings. The old casings, with their wealth of· carefully carved names, were taken out, the • painters puttied up the ho.Jes made by the . penknives, painted them over, and for over thirty years the old casings have formed a part of the fence that encloses the college grounds. When Mr. Nagle was in college the rain and sun of years had beaten down upon the ol'd fence, washed away the paint and laid bare the coarse-grained wood. Since the putty was of much lighter color than the boards, the names stood out in bold relief. Then the students were wont to search for names on the old fence, and found the work interesting, for many of the names cut so many years before were recognized as be- longing to men who have gained national reputation. When Chester A. Arthur was nominated for vice-president in I 88o, Mr. Nagle began hunting for his name on the old fence, and found it in two different places ; in one the nan1e was entire and perfectly cut, but in the other the letters were not so. clear, and only the \Arthur in stnall capitals, re- nlained. Both strips of casing were cut out, and Mr. Nagle has had the,m in his trunk ever since.. The full name 'is\ C. 1\. Arthur,\ ' ' cut in capitals and small capitals. The first big C of the nan1e shows plainly every move- .ment of the pen knife in the hands of Arthur. At intervals there is a slash in the board at right angles, showing where the knife slipped and shot off the grain. Below the narne, in Greek lettering, is carved'' Psi Upsilon,\ the nan1e of the college society of which he was a men1ber. The college was founded in 1791, and the surroundings are very interesting and full of historic associations. W. H. Seward, President Lincoln's Secre- tary of State, was a graduate of Union Col- lege. Just out~ide the window of his room protruded a broad stone ledge, in which Seward, when a student, chiseled his nan1e in large, even letters. It is still there, as permanent as the stone itself. When Arthur attended college his room was one story above that once occupied by Seward, and Arthur could look out and see the name in the window ledge below. The sight evi- dently inspired him, for he, too, chiseled his name in the stone of his own window ledge. A. visitor can step into the room oc;.. cupied by the president and see his name in the ledge. Leaning out of the ·window a little he discovers the name of Seward clearly cut below. SONG ,OF THE SPORT .. The winds they are a sporty set, The la~bs they gambol light and free; The eatth drinks all that it can get, That's where they'te just the same as me. The mountains have a lot of jags, The biggest tanks are in the sea, The stars are pretty speedy nags, See? But still they can't keep ui> with me. See? Now here's a tip. We take the lead. So if you join our gang of glee, You'll have to hurry up your speed To keep along with them and me. See? -Brzmoniatt. i'

146 . THE CONCORDIENSIS. - -_- ~=--=-=-==--===:======================== PUBLISHED SEMI-MOKTHLV BY STUDENTs OF UNION ·CoLLEGE. BOARD OF E.DITORS. B. c. LITTLE, '9I' W. A. l\1c DONALD, '91, ( HOMER B. WILLIAMS, '92, } E. J. PREST, '92. L. H. CARRIS, '93, J. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FERGUSO~, '91, G. F. MosHER, '92, H. D. MERCHANT, '93, } EDITOR-IN-CHiEF. AssociATEs. LITERARY EDITOR. ASSIST ANTS. BUSINESS MAN.liGER. ASSISTANTS. TERMS, SINGLE CoPIEs, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN AnvA~CE. IS CENTS. {J nion College, but good, earnest work by the team, even if it he a losing team, will make a reputation of which Union need not be ashamed, and that is the kind of work which the team will do this year. The members of the team do not intend to win every gan1e from now on, hut they do intend to play the best ball they know how, and no one can do better than that. So don't criti- . cize the players, or even the manager, too much,. for they are all trying to do their very best, and it is not their fault that their college does not contain better players. Not one of the men ever strikes out or makes an error We desire our friends to send us cont1ibutions, items of interest and . · information concerning Alumni. on purpose. He trt\es to do ,otherwise, and Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. f · Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kindly notify BHsiness i he fails he feels it a bun d red per cent. Manager. more than do the spectators. Bear, then, All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS Schenectady, N.Y. these facts in mind \Vhen watching the baJl Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. V., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenectady, N. Y. · Tli the opening of the base-ball season there arises, of course, a great amount of discussion as to the merits of the 'Varsity nine and as to the num her of games which the nine will have to its credit- at the end of the season. The absurdity of the statement made by some that we would not lose a game this year has already been proven, and the statement made by others that. the team is no good and that we ·will lose nearly every game \e play, is equally as absurd. Our · tean1 is not invincible, neither is it one that will continually suffer defeat. As now corn- posed, the team is very probably the best that can be made up from the material at present in the G.,.ollege, and ·each man on the team is a good, earnest ball player, who has &ecured his position only by steady practice and hard work. The winning or losing of games by the college ball nine will not, to any great extent, make or mar the future of games, and don't forget that the oftener dur- ing a game that the nine hears the P\nion yell the better will that nine play ball. ~v. ,, * * BANKRUPTCY, and other unpleasant things of a like nature are threatening the editors of this paper, and unless our subscribers pay up, and pay up promptly, the threat is likely to he carried out only too thor- oughly. It is undoubtedly forgetfulness on the part of most of our subscribers that is the ca·use of the delay in forwarding that two dollars; but no matter what the cause, the delay gives us a great deal of annoyance. It costs money, and quite a sum of money, to publish a paper, even if it be a college paper, and with each issue of this paper the editors run deeper and deeper into debt, the printer gets more and more anxious about our ability · to pay him, and the paper itself ge_ts more and more uninteresting and tiresome with its continued appeals for subscribers to\ pay up.\ A little thoughtfulness and a check for two dollars from each subscriber would change all this and, to say the least, would be appreciated by the board of editors of THE CONCORDIENSIS.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 147 WE have received of Melville D. Landon • a copy, and one of the very first copies; of his new book, and if there were no other · reason, gratitude alone would compel us to • speak kindly of it. But this handsome vol- . tune deserves, by its own merits, to be read, and widely read, throughout the country. It is full of the very be~t wit and humor of: the age-that real, true kind of wit and · humor which \Eli'' himself so clearly de- \ fines and of which one never tires. But in · addition this book· has between its covers a great deal of interesting information and · many valuable teachings and lessons which the lectures of such men as John B. Gough, De Witt Talmage, Henry Ward B·eecher · and others, necessarily contain. We cannot say more of the book than to say, as many · of the most prominent n1en of this country have said of it, that it is the brightest and best book that we have seen in a long time, and we wish to thank Mr. Landon for it and also for his great kindness in sending us son1e ad vance proof sheets of his book for publication in this paper. The last article which he has sent us on \Bill Nye\ will appear in our next issue. * * * THE photograph of President Webster, which appears in this number, is the same one that was so much admired two weeks ago in the chapel when it was flashed on the screen at the stereopticon entertainment. It is undoubtedly a better picture of Dr. Webster than has ever before appeared in this or any other paper, and vve are indebted for it to Mr. O'N eil1, the photographer. He very kindly offered to place it gratuitously in THE 'CONCORDIENSls, and it is needless to say we very gladly accepted the offer. -The President of Han1ilton College, Henry S. Darling, D. D. LL. D., died of pneun1onia April 20. -------------- ·- -------- -----· --------- =-============ -· The Glee Club has decided to give a concert in June. -- The date of the Field Day has not been _ decided upon as yet. -T'he commencement ball will probabl'y be held in the Round Building. -The Sigma Phi Society gave a small \German\ in the parlors of their chapter house Friday evening, April I 7· -The committee on class pictures have decided upon J. A. O'Neill, ·of this city, as the class photographer of 'gr. -The attractions at the theatre are: Gi!l- nlore's Band, May 5, afternoon only; How- orth Specialty Co., May 16. -Archie R. Perkins, a former mem her of ~92, is now secretary and treasurer of the Perkins Manufacturing Co., Poland, N. Y. -The Junior Hop Friday evening was a great success, and the Juniors will probably give cne more at least before commence- ment. -The students are not buying the base- ball buttons as rapidly as the manager would like to have them. Every loyal Union under- graduate should have one. -The Chancellor's address wil! be deliv- ered th.is year by the Hon. C. H. Saxton, State Senator. He is Chairman of the Sen- ate Cotnmittee on Education. -Gillespie, ·93, sang C. Bohrn's ''My Happiness'' at one of the Y. M. C. A. con- certs recently, and}. V. Roberts'\ Seek Ye the Lord \ in St. George's Church on Easter Day. -Why doesn't the B'!;njo Club get to work and do something? There are plenty of banjos and guitars in college, and with good, earnest work between now and Com- mencement they could materially aid the Glee Club in its first concert.

-------------------------------------- THE CONCORDIENSl$. --~----------- -- -The 'Glee Club was well received on the occasion of its first public appearance, on. the evening of April 16. They sang the decisions were pretty fairly made. score follows : NORMALS. A.B. ''Hunter's Joy'' {Astholz), and for an en- Giles, 2b .......... 5 - · \St ·f tt... S N' h .. '' , McCue, c .......... 6 core, - ars o - n:e. ummer ·1g. t. Davies, r.t .... · · · · · 5 -The follo-wing Seniors have received. Lynch, P· · ·· · · · .. · 5 Van B-uren, 3b..... 4 stage appointments: H. W. Briggs, W. S. · Robinson, s. s..... 5 C d W H Ed d Cb F .. k J VV' · Ballard, !b........ 2 · asse _. y, . j·-. • . war· s, as. Is e, . . . : DLtval'l. c..f......... 4 Ferguson, W. 0. Lay, A. B. C. I. ... ittle, W. Arnold,. l.f.... .. .. 5 A. McDonald, H. W. Preston, T. H. Rob-. ertson. Beekman C. Little has been ap- • pointed Valedictorian of the class. ·------- BASE-BALL. : Total. .. ·• . • • *' • UNIONS. Babcock, zb ..•.... Brookins, 3 b . ..... Smith, 1·. f • • · • • • • • • Briggs, I b •..•. .... Little, s.s .. . ... . ... Tallman, c. f, ...... Thatcher, 1. f . ...... Fagan, c .•.... . . . . Beebe, p . ..... .. ... Total .•.. ..... 41 A.B. 5 5 4 5 5 5 4 3 4 ....,_ 37 R. IB. 2 2 I 2 2 I :i 0 0 I I I 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 7 R. lB. 0 0 I 0 I I 2 I I I 0 I 0 0 I 0 0 I 6 5 *Winning run with one mat~ out. BY INNINGS. S.B. P.o. 0 0 I 7 0 I I 3 0 2 I 3 0 14- r 0 0 0 4 30 S.B. P.o. 0 3 0 I 2 0 0 10 0 I 0 0 0 2 0 8 0 3 2 28* A. '7 0 0 6 () 0 0 0 0 13 A. 3 I 0 I 2 0 0 I 4 12 E .. 0 0 () 0 2 2 2 0 0 6 E. 2 2 0 () 2 0 I 0 I 8 UNION, 6; ON:EONTA, 7; TEN INNINGS. \Played in a snow storm,\ was ·what the tel&gram said which was sent announcing the above score, and never did a telegram speak ;more truly. From the comm-ence- ment of the game until the seventh or eighth innings it snowed continually, and it is a wonder that either team could play any kind of good base-ball. . But they did-at least, Oneonta did. They outplayed and out- batted the college team, but were away behind the latter team in the matter of base running. Very few of the runs were earned, most of them being due to errors, and it would Normals. . . . . ..... Unio·ns ....... .... . 1 I 0 0 3 0 0 0 0- 0 0 2 ·0 0 ' I 2 l I-.7 ., I <J-6 Earned runs-Normals, I; Union, L Base on balls -By Lynch, r; by Beebe, 6. Hit by pitched ball- Bv Lynch, 2. Struck out-By Lynch, 7; by Beebe, 7· Left on bases-Normals, 9; Unions, 6. Two-base hit -Van Buren. Three-base hit-Giles. Passed ball- Fagan. Umpire-Rogers. Time-Two h<>urs. uNION, s ; TROY BUSINESS COLLEGE, 3· The first game on the campus this season was won very handily by the 'Varsity. The day, Tuesday, April 28, was lik~ the day of the Oneonta game, very cold and very w-indy, without, however, any snow storm. Union went to the bat first, but failed to score in the first inning. Troy had better luck, and placed :one run to her credit on an error by the short stop, a wild. throw from the field and a sacrifice hit. In the second inning Union, _to use a popular base-ball phrase, bunched their hits, and before the . therefore be tedious to give a special descrip- tion of how each run was made. The fea- tures of the gam-e were: A long hit by Smith and the excellent playing of Giles, the Oneonta's second basen1an, and of Briggs, \\ho played first base for Union. And es- . pecially noteworthy was the work of Union's battery. Not a wild pitch and but. one pass ball is, considering the state of the weather at the tiroe, a record to be proud of. Nat- withstanding the snow, the wind, the cold and the errors, the game was quite exciting, and at the close, when Oneonta made the winning run, the sn1all crowd present went wild with delight. The urnpiring was not by any means the worst that Union College has met with, and with a few· exceptions the . Troy .men had put the third man out, six of the 'Varsity bad. crossed the home base. Troy failed to score in her half of the second and Union now had a good lead. In the third inning Union added on·e more run to

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 149 her· credit, and the men from: Troy were again blanked.. Union n1ade no more ruNs until the seventh and last inning-s, when one more run was gained, principaHy through the errors of the Trojans. In the fourth in- nings., and again in the seventh, Troy scored, making tb e game at the finish 8 to 3 in Union's favor. After the first innings the Union tean1 played a sharp, quick gan1e and made very few misplays. There was qui·te a good deal of hard batting done, although the official :score does not seem to show that this was the case. The base running of\ the 'Varsity was not first-class and must be im- proved upon. The men should do more sliding to bases. 'The team from the T'roy Busine~s College played a rather poor game, both in the field and at the bat. Both bat- teries did very weH, although Manning was a little wild in throwing to bases. The best play of the game was made by Briggs, who made a very pretty jump and catch ot a ball thrown wildly fron1 third. FoBowing is the score: UN;ION. R. Babcock, 2b... .• .. .• . . • .. .. . I Brookin~. 3 b . .... \ . . . . . . . . . . 2 Be.ebe, r.f.. . . • . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . o Br.iggs, lb. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . r Little, s.s ... -.. . . . . .. ..... ., . . 2 1\\'a·ll man, c.f.. .. . .. . . . • . • . • . . . . b Thatcher, I. f. • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . I Clare, p.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I Fagan,. c........ . . . .. . . .. . . . . . o 'Total . • . :• . .. . . . . . . ... · ... • 8 TROY. R. Manning,~·................... r Donnelly, zb and s.s.. ... •. . . . o Gar·Ian·d, c. f... . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . r . P e·,n d.e rs, p . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . o Hogan, zb .and s.s..... . . . . . . . I Page., 3.d .. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o Goodwin, I b..... . . . . . . . . . . . . o McCra-in, r.f... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o Sin d.d e 1·, l. f. . • . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . o Total .... ..... . . . . . . .... 3 BY INNINGS. B.H. P.O. A. I 0 0 I I I 0 0 0 0 9 0 I 2 4 0 I 0 I 0' 0 I 0 IO 0 8 3 5 2I I8 B.H. P.O. A. I 12 2 0 0 3 0 0 2 0 I 12 I I 2 0 I 2 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2I 23 E. 1 I 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 3 E. I 4 0 3 2 2 I 0 0 13 U nio.n. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . o 6 I o o o I-'8 TrO}'. . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 o o I o o 1-3 Two-base hits-Hogan. Stolen base-Beebe. Doub- le play-Penders to Goodwin. Bases on called ba.Hs -Union, 2. Struck out-By Clare. 8; by Penders, 8. Passed balls-Fagan, I; Manning, 3· Umpire-C. W. Vanderveer. Scorer-A. M. Banker. .___.:iJ@ NE\W' YOT\_K ~. \'<5\ ... . ·• ·• . . . . . ~tl ~·----~~------- .. ------------------~ . . •· . . . . . Homeopathic ~edioai GollBye and Ho$pit,al ~ ~ i¥' Cor. 63d Street & :Eastern Boulevard, N.Y. City. --~------- SESSION BE.GINS OOT. 1, 1891. CLOSES APRIL 1, 1892. ~HE course ~f ins,truction. is c:=tre~ully ~raded, beginning in !a bora tory ~ work and dtdactlc teachmg m Chemistr-y, Anatomy, PhysiOlogy and Histology. In these branches the students at:e provided with chemical apparatus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, micvoscopes, and all instru- ments and material requisite for a thorough knowledge of the various sub- jects taught. The Seniors are ca·refully instructed in Geneml and Special Pathol- ogy, Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as applied to all forms of disea~e. Clinical mstruction constantly supplements the lectures, material being supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College. Bed-side instruction is given in the diseases .af Children, and in Obstetrics. Oper- ations in General Surgery and Gynaecology at the Flower Hospital a4joining the Col·lege, and Laura Franklin Hospital for Children, T. F. ALLEN,. M.D., LL.D., Dea.n. For information and announcement, address the Secretary, L. L. DANFORTH, M.D., 35 W·EST SIST ST., N. Y. CITY. lLLV.STftATED CATALOGVE FR:EE ~ .L i

150 AIJVERTISEMENTS. ---- --------=======j============================= '29. Sam: tiel W. Judson is still j:n active · practice of the law in New Yorlt city. With the ·exception of Judge Phil:o T. Ruggles, '2r, and Dr. Elijah T. Wbhney, '28, Mr. Judson is the oldest Union graduate in New York city. His classmate, Prof. H. S. Banks, still in excellent health, is a resident . I of Newburgh. '4 1. Lewis C. Platt has been e1ected super- visor from the town of White Plains, West- chester county, N. Y. '65. Col. Dayid C. Robinson has been elected Alderman from the fifth ward of the city of Elmira by the united votes o.f Repub licans, D·ern o crats and In dependents . . · '73. Rev. Dr. Henry A.. Po weB, for several years pastor of the Lee Avenue I Congregational church in Brooklyn, has re- signed his pastorate to practice law. He will begin practice May r at 206 Broadway, New York. '8o. A. H. Dougherty, who has been pur- suing his study of Art in. Paris dur·i:ng the· winter, expects to return to his Albany stu- dio in a few weeks. . '81. Frederick W. Cameron was married '-b'n April 2d to Miss Jeannie Armsby Dean, of Bloomfield, N. ]. The wedding took place at the house of Theodore DaCue Pal- mer, '79, Mrs. Palmer and Mrs. ·Cameron being sisters. -- - -- - ----- - - -- - HIGH CLASS CIGARETTE \ LATEST ENGLISH\ AND THE STANDAND OF THE WORLD,. \SWEET ·CAPORAL.\ ,_.., j - ~~J - J -, -, -, ACADEMICAk· COWNS & CAPS. Correct styles for UNIVERSITY & COLLECE US.E. Price according to Material and number ordered. Special prices for crases. For measurement send height, width of shoulder, size of neck_, and length of seeve. These gowns add grace and ful· ness to a speaker's form. MILITARY E·QUIPMENTS. Swords, Sashes, Belts, Boxing croves, Foils, Footballs, Jackets; everythi.ng that Stude.nts use In athletic sports, we supply. C. W .• SIMMONS &. CO., ''OaK H aU,\ Boston., Mass.

VoL. XIV. UNION COLLEGE, MA \\\ 16, 189r. No. 15. I' --- ~--- ------- ----·-.- --·--------- ----------- -- -------~------ ------ ============ .. .:=-=-·--_-_::_- __ - _-::=_-=-----=:.:.. wild West order. For exan1ple: Snmeone asked the editor of 7'he Boomerang the q ues- tion, \What is literature?'' .. ELI PERKINS ON \BILL NYE.-\ 1 ... DGAR W. NY E, whose humor reaches as l far as the English language, took his pseu- donym from the Bill .N ye in Bret Harte's poen1; \Plain language from Truthful James.'' The poem was written years before \Bi11 Nye '~ hecan1e famous, and reads: ''Ah Sin was his nam.e; And I shall.not de.ny In regard to the same What that name might imply, But his smile it was pensive and childHke, As f frequent remarked to Bill Nye. ,., Mr. Nye, like Artcn1us Ward, was born in Maine. He first saw th.e light near the woods of Moosehead Lake. When I asked him about his life, he said : \We m·oved frotn Moosehead Lake when I was very young, and lived in the West among the rattlesnakes and Indians until I grew up. I practiced law for about a year, but,'' he added, without changing a ·muscle, \nobody knew much ab0u t it; I kept it very quiet. I was Justice of the Peace, in Laramie, for six years.'\ \Did you ever n1arry any one?\ · '' 0, yes; I married my wife, and after that I used to marry others, and then try them for other offenses.''' Mr. N ye is. the author of several books, among which are \Baled Hay\ and \Bill N ye's Chestnuts,\ by Belford-Clarke Co. · He has also contributed to the CeJZtury Mag- azine. Every newspaper in the English language is now filled witb his writings. The attention of the public was first called to the humorist's writings on account of his vigorous English. His language was of the '' What is literature?\ exclaimed Bill, half contemptuously, pointing to the colun1ns of The Boomera1zg, ''What is iiterature? Ca~t your eye over these logic-i,mbued col- umns, you sun-dried savant from the rernote precincts. Drink at the never-failing Boome- ra,ng springs of forgotten lore, you dropsic-al wart of a false and erroneous civilization. Read our ''Address to Sitting Bull,' or our 'Ode to the Busted Snoot of a Shattered Venus De Milo,' if you want to fill up your thirsty soul with high-priced literature. Don't go around hungering for literary pie while your eyes are closed and your capa- cious ears are filled with bales of hay.'' Years after Bret Harte's poetn was writ- ten, Edgar W. Nye commenced signing his articles \Bill N ye. '' Mr. N ye always considered the best joke ever p~rpetrated by an English newspaper was when The London News came out with a serious edito- rial saying that '' Bill N ye '' was a real char- acter. Mr. N ye would get his scrap-book and read this serious editorial from The Lo1z- don News: If ever celebrity were attained unexpectedly, most assuredly it was that thrnst upon Bill Nye by Truthful James. It is just possible~ however, that the innumer- able readers of Mr. Bret Harte's \Heathen Chinee '' may have imagined Bill Nye and Ah Sin to be purely mythical personages. So far as the former is con- cerned, any such conclusion now appears to have been erroneous. Bill Nye is no more a phantom than any other journalist, although the name of the organ which he \runs\ savors more of fiction than of fact. But there is no doubt about the matter, for the Washing- ton correspondent of The JVew York Tribune tele- graphed on the 29th instant, that Bill Nye had accepted a post under the government. He has lately been domiciled in Laramie City, Wyoming Territory, and

152 THE CONCORDIE'NSIS. i::; editor of The Daily Boomeraug·. In reference to Acting-Postmaster-Gen. Hatton's appointment of him, as postmaster at Laramie City, the opponent of Ah Sin writes an extremely humorous letter, ''extending\ his thanks, and advising his chief of his opinion that his '' appointment is a tri utnph of eternal truth over error and wrong.'' Nye continues : '' It is one of the epochs, I may sa_y, in the nation's onward mar·ch to- w~u-d political purity and perfection. I don't know when 1 have noticed any stride in the affairs of state which ha::; so thoroughly impre:;;sed .me with itS. wis- dom.'' In this quiet strain of banter, Bill Nye con- tinues to the end of his letter, which suggests the opinion that, whatever the o.ffidal qualifications of the new postmaster may be, the inhabitants of Laramie City must have a very readable newspaper in The Daily Boomerang. During the preparation of\ Kings of Plat- forms and Pulpit,\ Mr. Nye kindly sent n1e the following note, which gives the true his- tory of his family : Dear Elz': You ask me how I came to adopt the JWJl de plume of Bill Nye, and I can tJ uthfully reply that I did not do so at all. My first work was done on a territorial paper in the Rocky ]_\~fountains some twelve years ago, and was not signed. The style, or rather the lack of ·it, provoked ~ome comment and two or tht-ee personal encounters. Other papers began to wonder who was responsible, and various names were assigned by them as the proper one, among them Henry Nye, James Nye, Rob- ert N v·e, etc., and a general discussion arose, in which I did not take a hand. The result was a compromise, by whkh I was christened Bill Nye, and the name has clung to me. I am not especially proud of the name, for it convevs the idea to strangers that I am a lawless, profane and dangerous man. People who judge me by the brief a11d bloody name alone, instinctively shudder and examine their firearm~-;. It suggests daring. debauchery and defiance to the law. Little children are called in when I am known to be at large, and a day of fasting is an- nou need by the governor of the State. Strangers seek to entet~tain me by showing me the choice iniquities of their town. Eminent criminals ask me to attend th etr execution and assist them in accepting their ~~e­ spective dooms. Amateur criminals ask me to revise their work and suggest imprO\·emcnts. All this is the cruel result of an accident, for I am not that kind of a man. Had m_v work b~en the same, done over the signature of \Taxpayer\ or'' Vox Pop- uli,'' how different might have been the result! Seek- ing as I am, in my poor, weak way, to make folly appear foolish, and to 1nake men better by speaking disrespectfully of their errors, I do not deserve to be regarded, even by strangers, as a tough or a terror, but as .a prain, law-abiding Americau citizen, who begs leave to subscdbe himself, Yours, for the Public Weal, EDGAR WILSON NYE. To be coutt'nlted. For several years the Hon. Frederick W. Seward, '41, has been at work upon a com- : plete biographical sketch of his father, the H.on. William H. Seward, '20. The manu.! script is nearly finished and will soon be p~laced in the hands of the printer. It\ will b~e a very valuable contribution to the politi- · cal history of the time. '5 r. James R. Henry died at his home in Jersey ·City, N. J., on April I r. He was a lawyer in New York city, but has be~n out of active practice fo.r the last year on account of ill health. '59· Rev. W. W. Baldwin has been in- ' stalled pastor of the First M. E. Church at I I Athol, Mass. '67. Dr. Frederick W. Seward is the .med- ical superintendent of the Seward Home. for Invaiids at Goshen, N. Y. He is an exp-ert i :til aU brain diseases. '70. James B. Lockwood is one of the School Con1missioners for the ,county of Westchester. '86. Wm. P. Landon is President of the Minnesota Christian Endeavor Union. He bas finished a theological course at the lV;Ic- . . Cormick Seminary in Chicag<?, and is no·w · connected with the House of Hope churc,h in St. Paul. '87. W. A. Jaycox has an interesting arti- cile upon college journalism in the April number of the Un-ivers-ity Magazi11e. It re- cords that the Pt!-stinte, published at Union College by John Howard Pay'ne (class of r:3r2,) was the second publication of the kind in America, the first having been published at Dartmouth in 1809 by Daniel Webster. '88. Rev. C. W. Blessing has given up his theological studies and become pastor of the M. E. Church at Sea Island City, N.J. • I \ , II • I

. II . I THE CONCORDIENS[S. I 53 ================·=====c:===================-=:.:-:::c=---~--=---:::.::.:-- ------ '8g. R. H. Washburne was ordained April . killed the tnonster, whose skeleton was I 2 at the :First Church, Lynn, 'by Bishop · brought afterward to Rome. Bowman ofthe M. E. Church. The third day put us on the shores of Africa at the mouth of the Suez canal, one , /'go. E. B. Baker was recently unanimously l 'elected by the Board of Alderman of Glov- of the most remarkable engineering \vorks ersvil]e to the office of Su perin ten dent of of modern times. Th~ necessity for the , ~ublic Works of that city. short cotnn1unication between the Mediterra- nean and the Red Sea has long been urged OVER FOUR CONTINENTS. To the Editor ojlhe Co?tcordie?zsis : DEAR SIR:-· At your request I submit to the readers , of your paper a few d-etails of the trip I took in coming ; to Union fro.m my hqme in Syria. J. F. A. . · • fT was at the close of the summe~r of I ~89 · ~- that I b~de adieu to the picturesque hills . ~-. '}nd valleys of Mount Lebanon, and on the t~vening of the 3d of September I found my- self among the busy passengers on board the steamer Niger, to be carried over the Medi- . by different nations and kings, but it re- nlained for the celebrated French engineer, M. Lesseps, to carry out the desired passage between the two seas. This passage bas r·e- duced the distance between Western Europe and India from I 1,379 to 7,628 miles and freed thousands of vessels frotn tbe round- about way of the Cape of Good Hope, with all its ocean dangers and excitement. On the fourth day vve arrived at Alexan- dria, the seaport of the land of the Pharoes. Egypt is a land that has few rivals on earth where existence is invested with such terranean. charms, where scenery presents such attrac- The s;teamer steered along the coast of tions, and where life is so ful1 of .surprise. Phcenecia all night. Lights from old Sidon Alexandria, one of its greatest cities, pre- a~d Tyre flashed every now and then to re- sents the appearance of a European place, veal the unkind and unmerciful treatrnent of having handsome streets, squares, bourse, time. The waves that once carried the theatres, and many other -magni.ficent palaces Phcenecian ships n1urmured words of woe, .I and public buildings. In its suburbs are and 1noaned under that tiresome foreign load. many handsome villas with pleasant gardens. '~ The Tyrian harp has slumbered long, A~d Tyria's mirth is low, The timbrel, dulcimer and song Are hushed, or wake to woe.\ Th.e next day we arrived at the palmy shor~s and orange orchards of Jaffa, where I spent the l~st day on my native soil. . ] affa is the seaport of Jerusalem, and is now connected with it by the first and only line of railroad ever built in that country. Jaffa has rich gardens of oranges, pome- · granates, figs, palms and bananas. On its . shores are found the famous rocks, claimed . to be the place .where Andromeda was ; chained and exposed to the mo'nster, and . where Perseus freed her from her chains and Alexandria was built by A:Jexander the Great, and was ruled by many nations after him; Few of its remains are still visible. Among its ancient relics are the two obelisks \ Cleo- patra's Needles.'' One of then1 was taken to Paris, the other is found in Central Park, New York city. The most striking monument found in Alexandria is the Pillar of Pompey, a hun- dred feet high. The shaft is one solid piece of red granite, 7 5 feet high and 30 feet in circurnference. It was built in honor of Emperor Diocletian, and was formerly sur- mounted by his statue. ]. F. AFT1MUS. (To be continued.)

I 54 THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED SEMI-MOI\THLY BY STUDENTs oF UNION CoLLEGE. that, with the least sort of response on the part of the alumni, an annual sum of $43,000 could be added to the treasury of Union Col- lege. If every alutnnus carefully reads this lit- tle book through, one of two things must in the BOARD OF EDITORS. · nature of things follow-either that fund will B. C. LITTLE, '9I, EDrToR-IN-CHH~F. ·• at once assume definite proportions or else W. A. Me DoNALD, '91, I AssociATEs. HoMER B. WILLIAMs, '92, f the alun1ni will prove that they are unworthy E. J. PREST, '92. LITEI~ARY EDITOR. f th . f ,, 1 l f Old u . ,, L H C , o · enameo · oy·a sons·o ·. · nlon. • · · · ARRis, 93, } AssiSTANTs. · J. W. VEEDER, '94, There are one or two statements made in J. W. FERGUSO~, '9:1, BuSINESS MANAGER. h h} h b · f ' · . · OSHER, 9 2 ' ASSISTAN'i'S. G F M ' ·~ t e pamp: et t at must · nng to every. nend H. D. MERCHANT, '93, of the college a feeling both of pride and '§;~ 0 ~ 5 ~ CoPIEs, $ 2 . 00 PER YEAR, IN ~ 0 ~~:~~: ' mortification ; for example, it is stated that We desire our friends to send us conttibutions, items of interest and Union ranks fourth, and perhaps third, information concerning Alumni. . among American colleges in the number of Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly wi:ll kindly notify Business : her graduates and that she is second to none Manager. in the wealth and distinction of ,her alumni. All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS Schenectady, N. v. Both of these statements are undoubted! y -- true and they are something to be proud of, Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady-, N.Y., as second-class matter. ~----- but in the same sentence with these two Chas. Burrows, Printer and Bookbinder, Schenectady, N. '!· .NION COLLEGE has been busy during ::1\\\ the past week in sending out to her alumni a neat little pamphlet containing the constitution of the Union College Alutnni Fund Association and also a statement of Union's present condition and her present needs. 1'he purpose of the Association, as is very clearly stated, is to obtain for the college a regular yearly income to be used for the current expenses of the college. The condition of affairs at Union to-day is a11 right and the college is prospering as it has· not done for a good tnany years; but in order to keep up and forge ahead in its pros- perity the college needs-not any large en- dowments especially, but an available \fund which can be drawn from at any time for general college purposes. It is proposed to g€t this fund by annual subscriptions from the alumni of the college, a.nd a hypothetical calculation is made which shows very clearly . statements goes apother one that must, to use a homely expression, make those alumni ashamed of themselves; it is as follows : \The sum of $25,000 would probably cover the whole an1ount of the contributions of the sons of Union toward the general purposes of the college.\ In another place it men- tions that Dr. Webster has collected a· cer- tain sutn, a sum not large enotigh for the alumni to be proud of either, by persona 1 solicitation. We wish the alumni of the col- lege could appreciate the atnount of tin1e, labor, and health, that this \personal solici- tation '' has cost Dr. Webster; and we wish that they would n1ake it unnecessary for Dr. Webster to do so much traveling, so that he could come back to Schenectady and stay for a while and thus give the undergraduates chance to get acquainted with him. There is one way in which the sons_ of Old Union can bring this about, and therefore we respectfully ask them for the honor of their airrta mater to \read mark, learn and inwardly digest \ the contents of the little volume which contains on its cover the title,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 55 in letters of garnet, ''The Union College ' ing her representative elected President of Alumni Fund.'' the Association for the ..coming year, and, * * *' ;, without c9-sting any reflections, it is to be WE have lately received several anony- mous articles addressed to this paper, and : although some of then1 are good and may : find their way into the columns of the ,CoN- ; CORDIENSIS, they do not receive· from us : nearly the amount of attention or respect · that do those articles to which the writers' . hoped and expected that the Assooiation will be a much better conducted and a more pr'l'sperous org,anization than it has been in the past. There were several changes made in the constitution, all of then1 tending to \' remove the evils that existed last year, but we can suggestone ,more change that would, we are sure, be another move in the right direction. Each college should play but one ch::tmpionship game with each of the other colleges in the league. The playing of two games is an expensive luxury not tol- erated, \Ve believe, by any other college foot- ball association, and surely the members of our association cannot stand it if other and older leagues cannot. We leave this sugges- tion with the respresentatives of the associa- tion in the hopes that they will carefully consider it at their next meeting. names are affixed. In ,m,ost cases, we think that an anonyn1ous contribution expresses · n1erelya sort of modesty on the part of the wri- ter, but sometimes. it looks very much as though the author wa~ ashamed of his or her work, and we don't care to have the latter kind of article appear in this paper. So, in future, if you have any thing to cotnmunicate to the editors of this paper which you wish to have published, please sign your name to the arti- cle. Should you desire that your name should not appea·r in connection with your article you have myrely to say so and your ·request will he heeded. Articles, either prose or poetry, for this paper, are earnestly solicited and always welcon1e; but if you want to hCJ.ve your efforts printed and if you desire the thanks ,of the editors, you rnqst not send in anonymous contributions .. * *' * '! .. AT LAST a meeting of the representatives of the New York State Intercollegiate Foot 13alf Association has been held and Union has been officially awarded the pennant which she won last fall. 1'he students had almost despaired of there ever being another meeting of this Association, and had about ~eci_ded that they must content themselves wh:h knowing that they had won the pen- nant without its being openly awarded to them, and therefore, this news of the Asso- ciation's decision in regard to the matter, being, as it was, so long delayed, was doubly welcome. Union also had the honor of ha v- · BASE-BALL. UNION, I 2 ; COLGATE, 6. In this game, played at Hamilton, August r, the Colgate nine seemed to be at the mercy of Union's pitcher, and therefore there was very little fielding for the visitors to do. In the seventh inings, how .. ever, the Colegate nine seemed to pick up in their batting and added four runs to their score before the last man was .put out. The Union team seemed to have no trouble in hitting Potter, Colgate's pitcher, and in the sixth inning Johnson took his place. Both teams played a fair fielding game. At the end of the seventh inning the Union nine were obliged to stop in order to catch a~ train. Although the game was not yet finished, and although the Colgate nine had a fair chance of winning the game if the nine innings were played, they still paid their guarantee in full and gave the game to Union by the

THE CONCORDIENSIS. score of 12 to 6, and for this they deserve a great deal of credit. The score follows: RTDGEFf ELD. A.B. . R. 3 IB. S.B .. P.O. A. E. 2 I 3 I 0 4 I 0 2 0 UNION. Babcock, 2b ........... . Brooki n~. 3b. · · · · · · · · · · · Bee·be, ~r .f ................. . Briggs, lb •......•... · · · A.B. R. 5 5 4 4 4 I 2 3 IE. I 2 2 2 0 I I. 0 P.O. A. 2 I I I 0 0 0 McDonald, ~.s · · · · · 4 Qyinn, 2t!.. •.. .. .. • 6 Smith, c.. . . . . . . • . 6 E. · Batchelde;r., rb · · · · · 6 ~ Ha 11, I. f. . . . . · · · · · · 5 Gallien, r.f. . . . . . . 6 0 0 0 2 2 3 3 3 3 l 12 I 2 0 I 9 I 0 3 0 0 0 0 2 3 0 0 [ Little, :s.s ............. . Talltna<n, c. f .... • ...... . Thatcher, I. f ... · · . · · · · · · 3 4 Clare, ,T>·· ••••••••••••.• Fagan.\' ~c. . · . · · · • · · ·· · · · 4 4 2 2 I I 0 0 5 2 l 0 0 9 2 0 0 I2 4 I I 0 0 2 I Rogers, 2h. • . • ·· · • · S Link, P· ·· · · · · .. · · 5 Cox, ~c. f ...•..•. ······ 5, Total. .... · · · · 48 UNJ,ON. A.B. r8 3 2 2 I I I 0 I 4 0 2 2 0 0 0 20 II 27 IO 4 IB. S.B. P.O. A. :E. Total ....... · · · · · · 37 I2 COLGATE. A.B. R. Eckley, Iib .••• • • • • • · • · · • 4 De Woody, 3d···· .... ·· 4 Brown, l.f. .. · · · · · · · · · · · 4 Leete, s. s . . . · · · · · · · · • · 4 Tupper, 2 b ..... · · · · • · · · 4 I I 2 I II :!B. I 0 I I 0 0 0 2I P.O. A. 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 0 2 0 0 0 Babcock, 2b. . • . . . . 4t, 6 · Brookins, 3b · • · · · · 4 Smith, r.f. · ·: · · · · · 4 Briggs, rb .. · .. · .. · 3 Little, s.s ....... • · 4 Tallman, c. f~ . • . • . • 4. Thatcher, Lt.·.···· 3 Holmes, c... • • • • • • • • 2 Beebe, p... ... . .. . I E. O• I I I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 5 I I 0 I 2 0 0 0 10 0 2 0 0 0 3 2 I 0 3 0 I 0 I I 0 I 0 0 2 0 3 0 0 2 2 l 0 0 2 4 0 johnson, r.£ ...... · · · • · · · 4 Riselv, tf ........ ······· 3 Parsons, ,c.......... ·· 4 P·otte r, jp • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • I TotaL •... · · · · · 33 0 0 0 0 I 6 BY 'INNINGS. Union ..•...... · · ·. · · · · • · · · · 5 3 c o.J gate ,, .. .. e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·- 0 0 I 7 5 I2 I 2I II I 0 I 0 I 6 0 2 0 0 I-12 0 0 0 2 4- 6 -------------------- Earned Rnns-Union, 5· Two-base hits-Briggs, r. Double plays-Little to Brookins. Bases on called balls-O.ff Clare, I; off Potter, 4· Hit by pitched ball -Bv Clare, .:!. Struck out-By Clare, I I ; by Potter, .v 9· Passed halls-Hilton, r; Parsons, 2. Umpire- Mr. Cooke. UNION, 0; RIDGEF[ELD, I 8 At Albany, May 2, the 'Varsity was de- feated by the above score, and it is the first time in a great many years that Union has been \shut out\ in a ball game. .l\ large number of students went down to Albany to see the game, in the hopes that Union might win, and it is needless to say they came away disappointed. It is not necessary to go into a detailed description of tl)e game, for it consisted mainly of errors on the part of Union, and excell.ent b~ttin~ on the part j of Ridgefield. The Varsity d1d not seem 1 to be able to hit Link with any effect at all, and the Ridgefield men batted Beebe almost at 'will. :For some reason the college nine played a miserable game both at the bat and in the fie'ld. The official score follows : Total .... · · · · · 29 0 2 I 24 16 II BY INN£NGS. Ridgefield.......... 3 r 4 o o 5 5 o x-r8 Union .... _......... o o o o o o o o o- o Earned Runs-Ridgefield, 2. Two-base hits- Q.yinn, 2, Smith, McDonai?. ~acrifice hits-· Babcock. Bases called on balls -Off Lmk, 4: off Beebe, 2. Bases from being hit by pitched balls-Roger, :McDon- ald. Struck out-By Link, r3; by ~eebe, I. P~ssed balls-Smith, 2. Wild pitches-L1nk r. Umptre-. Charles Sabin. Time ofgame, I: 55· UNION, I I ; SYRACUSE, 9· Tuesday, May 5, on the campus, Union de- feated Syracuse in a rather interesting game. The day wa~ rather cold and windy, and both players and spectators were glad when the contest was· over. The weather was un- favorable for anything like brilliant playing, and both teams made a number of errors. Tallman's catch of a fly ball in the last inning, and Craig's hatting were the features of the game. UNION. A.B. R. Brookins, 3b ....... · · · ·. 3 2 Briggs, Ib ...•.•........ I 2 Clare, r. f ...•.. • . . . . . . . . 2 I Little, s. s ........... ·. ·. 4 2 Tallman, c.L .......... · 3 o McCowatt, 2b. •••••••• • • 4 I Thatcher, Lf .......... · 4 o Beebe, P·· .. • ..... ·· ·· · 4 I S·mith, c ...•..•....•... · 4 2 To ta I . , • .. • . . . . • . . • . 2 9 I I I B. P.O. A. 0 4 3 0 5 0 0 0 0 2 0 3 0 2 0 I I 3 0 2 0 I 0 5 I 7 0 5 21 I4 E. I I I 2 0 I 0 0 I 7

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I 57 SYR..A:CUSE. A. B. R.. Reddington, I b . . . . . . . • . .5 2 C ra n,e, ·c . . • . • . .• . . . . . .. • .. 4 2 Craig,. p. . . . . . . . . . . .. · ·. 5 I Wright, 3b...... ... .... 5 r French, s. s ........... · · 3 o Wheeler, l.f.. .. . . . . . .. . 4 o Stevens, rb .•..•.....•. 4 I Heaton, r.f .......... · •. 4 r Brewe1·., c. f. . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 I Total: • . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 9 IB. I I 3 I I 0 I I 0 P.O. t 2 3 0 2 I TO. I I 9 21 A. 2 I 4 0 2 0 0 0 0 9 E. CORNELL. Moore, r. f . . . . ,, . . . . .... . 0 · Fowle, c. f ........... ·. · I A.B. R. 5 I 4 0 I I I 0 0 0 I 5 Field , ·C • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4 2 Burrows, s.R ..... · · · · · · 4 I Taylor, tb · · · · · · . .. .. .. . 4 2 M d ler, 3 b . . .. .. . . . . . . • . 4 I Rich., 2·b.. . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 r Dowd, I. f... . . . . . . . . ·.. 4 o *S' . l ·.eymou•, f> ••••••••••• r_ 4 I Priest, p . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ Total .. · .. · · · · · · · · · 37 9 *Retired a.t third .inning. IB. I 0 3 2 0 0 0 I P.O. A. I 0 I 0 7 0 I 2 ro o 2 2 3 s I 0 I 3 8 27 12 E. 0 0 0 I 0 0 2 0 0 3 BY INNINGS. BY INNINGS. lJnion ...•........... o r 2 o o o o o o--3 lJni:on · .... · · · · · · · · · · · ··· · · 4 2 o 2 I 2 ·O-r I Co 1 ·nell............. .. o I 2 o o o o· 6 .. x--9 Syracuse. . . • . . . . . . . . .. . . . . I 2 o 3 2 o I- 9 Earned runs-Syracuse, 2. Two-base hits-C1·aig, 1. Three-base hitb-Craig, I. Bases on called balls , -·Off Beebe, 2; off Craig, 7· Struck out-By Beebe, 4; by Craig, 2. Passed Balls-Smith, 3; Crane, 3· Wild pitches-Beebe, 2; Craig, I. Umpire--W. A. McDonald. UNION, 3 ; CORNELL, 9· The best game played by Union this sea- son was played at Ithaca May 6. In the second inning Union and Cornell each scored a run, and in the third inning each added two runs to their score, the four runs in the th·ird inning all being earned. No more runs were gained until t-he eighth inning, when Cornell took a great spurt and batted in six runs. The battery work on both sides was excellent, as indeed was the work of all the players. 'Thatcher distinguished hin1self in left field by making five put outs and no errors. McCowatt also tnade a difficult catch in center field. The batting and playing of Field was the n1ost brilliant part of Cornell's game.. The score follows : UNION. A.B. R. Babcock, 2 b .......... · · 4 o Brookins, 3b .... · · · · · · · • 4 o Briggs, I b ........ ·. · · ·. 3 I Beebe, r.f ............. ·. 4 r Little, s.s ......... · .. · · 4 I McCowatt, c. f .•... · • • • · 4 o Thatcher, l.t .... · · , · · · ·. 4 o s.m it h ' c • . • . • • • . • \ . • • . . 4 0 Clare, p .... · · · · · · · · · · · · 4 o Total ... •. · · · · · · · · · 35 3 IB. 0 0 I I I 2 I I 0 P.O. A. I I I 0 7 0 I 0 0 3 2 0 5 0 7 0 0 7 7 24 II E. 0 0 I 0 J 0 0 0 0 2 Two-base hits-Beebe, I ; Burrows, I. T'hree~base hits-Dowd I. Home runs-Field, I. Struck out- By Seym.our, 4; by Priest, ·I; by <:;lave, 7· Hit by pitched balls-By Clare, 2; by Pnest, r. Passed balls-Smith, 2. Wild pitches--Clare~ I. Double plav-Burro·ws to Rich to Taylor. Earned runs-- lJnion, 2; Cornell, 3· Umpire-Mr. Cushing. UNION, I I ; SYRACUSE, 13. The return game vvith Syracuse was played May 7 on the new Syracuse U nive.r- sity ball grounds. In contrast to the game of the day before, Union played ~rniserably, much worse, in fact, than the score shows. Syracuse also played a poor fielding gan1e, but their errors did not seem to be so costly as did those of Union. Beebe made a fine record at the bat, going five times to the bat and making four base hits. Reddington at second base played a fine game for Syracuse. Following is the score. -------------------- UNION. A.B. R, Babcock, 2b............ 6 o Brqokins, 3b .. · ..... · ... 5 2 Briggs, Ih.............. 6 I Littles.s ......•.•...•.• 6 o Mc.Cowatt, r. f. . . . . . . . . . 5 2 Tallman, c. f.·.· ...... ·· 5 2 Thatcher, I. f. . . . . . • ·... 5 2 Beebe, p .............. . 5 I S·rnith, c ............ ·. · 4 I To ta 1 • • • • • • • • • • • . • • 4 7 1 I SYRACUSE. A.B. Reddington, 2b ••.• · · • · · 5 Crane, s.s .... ·• · · · · · · · · 4 c·.rane, l.f............. ... 5 Wright, 3b .. · · • · • · · · ·.. 4 Yr:ench, p ...•. • · · · · · · · · 5 W·heeler, r. f. ... ·· · · · · · · 5 Stevens, Ib. · • · · · · · · · · · · S Chadderton, c.. . . . . . . . -1- Heaton, c. f. . • . . . . . . . . . . I R. I 2 2 2 3 0 I I I Total .......... · · · · 4I 13 IB. I 0 I I I 0 0 4 I P.O. 0 2 I4- I 0 0 I 2 4 A. 2 0 0 4 I 0 0 I 3 9 24 II IB. P.O. 0 s I I 2 I 0 I I 2 I 0 I 12 0 4 I I A. I 5 I 0 3 0 0 0 0 7 2,7 T 0 E. 0 I 0 :2 0 0 l; I 0 s E. I I I I 0 0 I 2 0 7 > j,

THE CONCORDIENSIS. BY INNINGS. :U n ·ion.. . • .. . . • . • . • .. • . ,. r o Syracuse . . . . . • . • . . . • 5 o 2 0 0 0 5 I 0 I I--II I 4 2 I -13 -Senior vacation begins June L Earned runs-Union, r; Syracuse, r. Two-base · hits~-Beebe, I ; Crane, 1 ; Heaton, r. Three-base hits-Brigs, r. Bases ·On called balls-Off Beebe, o; off French, o. Hit by pitched balls-by French, 2. Struck out-By Beebe, 2; b,· French, 7· Passed halls-By Chadderton, 1; by Smith, 4· -It is time '93 should have her Garnet · board organized. -The college authorities gav:e the stu- ~ents a ''bolt\ on Arbor day. May 1. UNION, 25; MECHANICVILLE, I L -H. W. Preston, 'gr, spent three days last week at Rouse's Point surveying for Prof. Brown. -Robertson, '9r, and Mosher, '92, at- tended the annual convention of the Psi Upsilon society, held at Amherst, Mass., last week. The game with Mechanicville on the cam- pus May I 2, was characterized by heavy hit- · ting and rather loose fielding. The college nine were manifestly the superiors of their opponents, and knowing this the m·en on the 'Varsity showed very bad taste by' playing a careless game. The double umpire systen1 was tried, and half of it was very had, and this half was not that represented by Mr. McDonald. The score follows: -Mr. A. M. Banker successfully ~anaged . the base-ball team on their trip to Ithaca and Syracuse in the absence of Manager Preston. -Each student should make it a point to be on the campus every afternoon to encour- age the base-ball team, both in its practice and exhibition games. \E. UNION. A.B. R. Babcock, 2b...... . . . . . . 7 lB. P.o. A, Brookins, 3b · · · · • · · · · · · 7 Briggs, r b • . • . .. . • . • . • .• . 6 Beebe, r.f ........ ·. · · ·. 5 Little, s. s. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 6 McCowatt, c. f .. ·• . . . .. . 7 Thatcher, 1.£..... . . . . . . 6 Cla·re, p . ............. · · · · 3 I I i Ito n, c ...... · • •. · · · · . 4 2 4 2 4 4 2 2 2 3 3 3 I I 4 2 0 ..., ._\' I Total .............. 51 r8 MECHANICVILLE. A.B. R. IB. Lawton, p . ...•......... $ 2 Lowman, r.f ............ 5 I Massey, I b · • · · · · • · • • • • • s 2 Shanahau, 1. f. - .. ·• ...... 5 3 Whalen, s. s .•.•.•.••.•.• 5 - 0. J) u d.J e y, c . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4 0 Sullivan, 2b ....•.•••..• 4 0 G. McBurney, Jb\ •..•.. 3 2 ]. McBurnep, c.f . ....... 4 I Total .............. 30 II BY INNINGS. Union....... . . . . . . . .. r:- 2 2 o 5 ,) Mechanicville . . . . • . . 2 o o I I I I 0 2 0 0 0 o. 2 6 I 2 I 0 2 0 2 0 II P.o. I 0 9 0 2 6 4 s 0 27 I 0 I 4 2 0 0 0 4 I I 9 3 20 A. 5 0 0 0 3 I 2 4 0 I 3 2 I . I 0 0 . I 0; 9 E. 0 0 2 I I 0 2 2 0 IS 8 8 2-25 I I-II Home run-Shanahan, L Two-base hits-Babcock, Brookins, Little, Clare. Douhle plays-Whalen to Sullivan to Massey, Thatche1- to Briggs. Bases on · balls-Off Clare, I; off Sullivan, 9· Struck out-By Clare, 9; by Lawton, 4- Wild pitches-Lawton, I; Clare, r. Umpires-A. McBurney, W. A. McDonald. -Dr. Griffith, who was once a member of the faculty of the college, lectured May 28 under the auspices of the college at the First Reformed church. -1'he office of Class Historian of '9r, formerly held by Thomas L. Walker, who has left college, has been filled by the elec- tion of B. C. Little. -The alurr1ni association of Western New York, which was to have had a banquet in Rochester last week Monday, has indefi- nitely postponed the event. -The prize stage appointments. have been made as follows:· Juniors-Hunter, Fur~ beck and Reddish. Sophomores-Burke, lVIcAlpine, Morey, Thatcher and Clowe. -Daley, '92, and Cassidy, '94, left last week for Baltimore, Md., where they at- tended the annual convention of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity, with the Chapter at John Hopkins U ni versi ty.

THE ·CONCORDIENSlS. 159 -· -J. Aftim us, a former me121 ber of '92 is to graduate :with 'gr. -The Senior engineers have been engaged in measuring the flow of water in the Mohawk. -Sunday morning, as the students went to breakfast, they read upon the section doors, \Union gets the pennant,\ an inscrip- HI·GH CLASS CIGARETTE tion which tiad been painted in large white letters the ni£!ht before by some enthusiasts ,, on receiving the ne\vs from Syracuse. • LATEST ENGLISH'' THE PENNANT. Union is Awarded it at the Syracuse Meeting. ··A meeting of the New Y:ork State Inter- collegiate Foot-ball Association, \vas held at · Syracuse on Saturday, May 9, and the pen- nant was awarded to Union College. Union was rerJresented by Manager Rob- ertson ; Rochester by Thomas Parsons ; Syracuse by H. E Stout; and Hamilton by T. H. Coventry. Mr. H.obertson's motion that all matters to come before the Board for consideration be taken from the table in the order in which the respective events occurred, \vas, after a long discussion and numerous rulings, car- ried. Union's protest of the game with Roch- ester, on Nov. 4, was taken fron1 the table. Union claimed the game six to nothing, and the protest was granted. I'he protests of Nov. 15, Rochester vs. Syracuse ; Nov. 22, Syracuse vs. R.ochester; and Nov. 27, Roch- ester vs. Union, were gran ted. Syracuse made a satisfactory adjustn1en t of her pecuniary differences with Rochester, and the contested gan1es being disposed of, the record stands as follows : CLlJB. WON. LOST. PER CENT. Uni-on ..•.••. ~ .• .......... s I .833 Rochester ...... ............ 3 3 .sao Syracuse ........•.•....... 2 4 ·333 Hamilton . ................ 2 4 ·333 AND THE STANDARD OF THE WORLD, \ SWEET CAPORAL.\ The stock used in the manufacture of this Cigar is the most .expensi-lJe ~~ any ftve-cent Cigar ever put on the Jna,rket. .It is 'really a ten-ce1d C'z\gar for .five cents. Competition drove us to it. The Price is 5 Cents.-Not 10 Cents. ·' ,, ' r·· 1·:· ' I 1: '. !'' r!: \ ,,, ~ ' ' )· I l'r' i:

16o THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Penn g,nt was then forn1al1y awarded · to Union, and it was moved and carried that : the fund now in the treasury for the pur- : chase of a pennant be turned over to the · Union manager. • ~.~~·41-'-'-'.~\'--'-T.r?0~· . -~~ ._.~ NE\W YOT(K ~ •• ''<fS? .,,,., '49 .... . ' : .. .. . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . Homeopabhin ~edical QoUege and Ho~pibal 6~ .,. ~ '437 ..... Oor. 63di Street & Eastern Boulevard, N. Y. Oity. SESSION :BEGINS OCT. 1, 1891. OLOSES APRIL 1, 1892. A constitutional amendment was then passed to the effect that the manager of the home team shall su hmit, at least ten days .. prior to a game, a list of ten names, from , which the manager of the visiting team shall , select two, one of whom shall act as referee · and the other as un1pire of the game, and :. that no referee or umpire shall be an ~]urn- . nus or undergraduate of the competing col- leges, or trainer of the competing teams. .HE course of instruction is carefully graded, beginning in laboratory ~ work and didactic teaching in Chemist·ry, Anatomy. Physiology and Histology. In these branches the students are provided with chemical apparatus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, microscopes, and all instru- ments and material requisite for a thorough knowledge of the various sub- jects taught. The Board then adjoureed sine die. The new Board, consisting of Wemple of. Union, Parsons of Rochester, Carley of Syra- cuse, and Curran of Hamilton, then met and elected Mr. Wemple President of the Asso- ciation. Colgate U ni versit_y \Vas admitted to n1embership, and the Board took an ad- journment until May 30, at Geneva, when the schedule for next fall's games will be adopted. At the recent New York conference of theM. E. Church the following assignments of Union men were made: Rev. Alfred Coons, '66, Presiding Elder, Kingston ; Rev. Wm. H. Mickle, '65, Presiding Elder·, New- burgh ; Rev. John J. Dean, '66, Coeymans; Rev. John A. Roche, '77, Washington St. Church, Brooklyn: Rev. Orrin R. Bouton, 57, Five Points Church, N e~. York city ; Rev. C. A. Holla, '83, Prattsville, N. Y. ·-------------- ------------------------- The Seniors are carefully instructed in General and Special Pathol- ogy, Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as applied to all forms of disea!:>e, Clinical mstntction constantly supplements the lectures, material being supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College. Bed-side instruction is given in the diseases of ChildFen, and irt Obstetrics. Oper- ations in Gener.al Surgery and Gynaecology at the Flower Hospital adjoining the College, and Laura Franklin Hospital for Children, T. F. ALLEN, M. D~, LL.D., Dean. For information and announcement, address the Secretary, L. L. DANFORTH, M.D., 35 WEST SIST ST.,. N.Y. CiTY. [tLVSTRATED CATALOGVE FREE ~

====================== --:~. -=--:c-= -- ·~. -:c-:c-., ... -_-_.::: --- -- . ~ -:.c:_ --=-=--=-· ;-c-- _..,-_--=-=---~---_- ==--~ -_ ~.-= VoL. XIV. UNION COLLEGE, MA ,- 30, 1S9r. No. r6. ELI PERKINS ON \BILL NYE.\ (Concluded.) One day I asked Mr. Nye how he kept his teeth so white. \Oh that's easy,\ he said; \all teeth will remain white if they are pro peri y taken care of. Of course I never dnnk hot drin~s, always brush my teeth morning and even- ing, avoid all acids whatever, and, although I am forty years old, n1y teeth are as good as ever.\ \And that is all you do to preserve your teeth , i s i t ? \ I ask e d. '' Yes, sir; that's all-barring, perhaps, the fact that I put them in a glass of soft · water nights.~, Somebody asked Bill what he thought of the Democratic party. \The Democratic party?\ be repeated. ''Why, a Democrat keeps our drug store over there, and when a little girl burned her arm against the cook stove, and her father went after a package of Russia salve, this genial drug store Democrat gave her a box of 'Rough on Rats.' What the Democratic · party nee~s,\ said Mr. N ye, \is not so n1uch a new platform as a car-load of assorted brains that some female seminary had left over.'' An Englishman was talking with Mr. Nye about English and American hun1or. \In my opinion,\ said the Englishman, \the h un1or of the United States, if close I y exam- ined, will be found to depend, in a great measure, on the great ascendancy which the principle of utility has gained over the imag- inations of a rather imaginative people.\ ------------- ---· --- ------------- --- -------------------------- --- - --- \Just so,\ replied BiH, \and according to tny best knowledge, the h urn or of Eng land, if closely examined, will be found just about ready to drop over the picket fence into the arena, but never quite n1aking con- nections.· If we scan the English literary horizon,, we will find the humorist up a tall tree, depending from a sharp knot thereof by the slack of his overalls; He is just out of sight at the time you look in that direction. f-Ie always has a man working in his place, however. The ~man who works in his place is just paring do·wn the half sole and newly pegging a joke that has recently been sent in by the foreman for repairs.'' Speaking of mean n1en one day, Mr. N ye remarked: \ I've seen mean n1en, and Laramie used to have the meanest man I ever knew-a church member, too.\ ''How ·mean was he?\ asked a by-stander. ''Why, he was so mean that he kept a Sunday handkerchief, made to order, with scarlet spots on it, which he stuck up to his nose just before the plat~ started round, and then left the church like a house on fire. So, after he had squeezed out the usual amount of gospel, he slipped around the cor- ner and got home ten cents ahead, and had his self-adjusting nose-bleed handkerchief for another trip.\ .. Mr. N ye was the guest of I .. awrence Bar- rett and Stuart Robson, at Cohasset, Mass- achusetts. When asked how he enjoyed his visit, he said: \ 0, finely. Barrett enjoyed it too. You know he was in Boston during the visit. I found Robson, however, at his house, walk- ing under the trees and thoughtfully eating 1::.

162 THE CON,CORDIENSIS. green apples, of which he is passionately I by Mr. N ye. His introduction was like fond. l-Ie r'aises upward of sixty barrels of this : apples on his estate each year, any one of \Ladies Getttlemen :-I am glad that it h . 'h . r: 1 ,, h d ] w 1c · Is 1ata. · as evo ved upon me to-night to ann ounce \ 'A neighbor of mine had an odd experi- ence with his applies the other day,' said Robson. 'He has son1e of this san1e breed. It is an apple which will turn when it is trodden upon. Nobody but a cider press can eat one and live. This friend of inine went out one day and discovered a boy, narned Jam.es, sitting up in the branches of his apple tree, eating the luscious fruit, and filling his shirt and trousers with enough to stay his stomach when he got home. ' I wish you vvould not do that,' said the man. ' I do not care so much for 1 he fruit, but you are breaking the tree and disfiguring it.' . ' Oh, you shut up,· retorted the lad, knocking the tnan's glasses off, together with the bridge of his nose, with a large lignum-vitce apple. 'If you don't go into the house and keep quiet, I will come down and injure you.' ' Very well,' said the man, ' I will have to go to-morrow and tell your father about you and your insulting language.' 'All right,' said the youth. 'Go in, you old pessimist, and get the razzle-dazzle, if you wish. I will, in the meantime, select a few more of your n1irth-provoking fruit.''' \The next day, full of wrath, the man went over to the boy's house, and said to the father: ' Sir, I have con1e to do a very dis- agreeable duty. I have come to tell you of. your boy and the insulting language he used to me yesterday.'\ '' ' Do not speak of it,'\ said the old tnan, softly. \'He told the doctor and.me and his mother about it last night. He was very sorry, indeed, very sorry, indeed. Your · <- that we are to have an interesting lecture 011 Lying by one of the most distinguished-- [Th ere was a long pause; for Mr. Nye's in- flection indicated that he had finished and . the audience roared with delight, so that it was some time before the sentence was con- cluded] lecturers fron1 the East.\ Mr. Nye continued, \\Ve haYe our ordi- nary country liars in Laramie ; but Mr. Perkins comes from the n1etropolis. Our everyday iiars have a fine record. We are proud of them, but the uncultured liars of the prairie can not be expected to cope \vith the gifted and tnore polished prevaricators fro111 the cultured East. Ladies and gentle- men, permit me to introduce to you Eliar Perkins.\ '·'Ladies and Ge11tleme7z,\ I said in reply, '' I feel justly flattered by your Lara- rnie humorist's tribute to n1y veracity; but truly I am not as great a liar as Mr. Nye-\ and then I seemed to falter. The audience saw my dilemma and applauded, and finally I couldn't finish the sentence for son1e mo- n1ents, but continuing, I said, \ I am not as big a liar as Mr. Nye-would have you think.\ A day or two after this I picked up Tlze Boo1nerang and read this paragraph: \When Mr. Perkins was passing through Laramie, he said he was traveling for his wife's pleasure.\ \Then your wife is with you?'' suggested the reporter. \ 0 I'' . d El' h . . N , no . sat · I, \ s e rs In ew York.\ MELVILLE D. LANDON (\ Eli Perkins.\) errand is unnecessary, however, sir; the boy is dead.' '' A few years ago the writer passed through Laramie, and was introduced to an audience · -The championship of the New York State Intercollegiate Base Ball Association will probably go either to Colgate or Syra- cuse.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. OVER FOUR CONTINENTS. Along the shores of Italy and Sicily the (Continued.) • scenery :~wvas most ,charming and most in- ~HE vessel had to stop in. the port of structive. The hills and valleys forming the J,r Alexandria for a few days, and this great voicanic district told volumes about gave us time enough to make a short out-of- · contending races and creeds, and told 111any the-way trip to Cairo, the capital of Egypt. a legend about gods and goddesses. But by Cairo is situated on the east bank of the Nile, far the most surpassing in beauty was the twelve miles above the apex of its delta. lurid rush of smoke and the red rolling flame The many European building-s found in Cairo of JEtna's volcano. The great prison of the give a tnarked contrast to those of the na- giant Typhon owed its flames to his breath, tives., which are built generally in a style of its thunderous noises to his groans, and its elaborate arabesque. Frum the citadel, sit- shaking earthquakes to his movement. uated about 300 feet above the level of the The sight of Elba, Nar.)olean's exile, rtnd town, one can see the magnificence of the Corsica, his birthplace, and many other his- eity, with it~ m~ighty walls and towers, its . toric islands added much to the beauty of gardens and squares, its mosques and pal- th t · e np. aces in all the beauty of their delicately · The 27 th of Septenl ber put us on the carved domes and minarets covered with shores .of France at Marseilles, and two days fantasti. c tracery. In this city· is found after that we found ourselves in the glorious Mosque-El-Azhar, the Moham:medan univer- city of Paris, then busy with the crowded sity, where about 8,ooo students are en- visitors of all nations, attracted by the expo- rolled. sition. The two weeks spent in studying Cairo and its vicinity is the abode of the the city, on the tops of the Eiffel Tower and oldest remains left bv the ancients. In the - the Arc of Triumph, in Place de Bastile, the ·museum of Bulak we sa\Jv the oldest dried boulevards, the royal palaces and museums, meat in the mummies of men that lived al- seemed to be too short a time to give a full ·most 2,000 years before Christ and were in idea of the greatness, glory and civilization the presence of His Majesty King Ran1esis .of the French nation. I II. A -few miles from Cairo we climbed the At Havre we bade farewell to France and g-reat pyramid ot Gizeh, 500 feet in height and built by the Fourth Dynasty. enlisted among the passengers of the steamer The first traces of land that came in sight Gascoigne, and after eight days of pleasant after leaving Egypt \Vere the 1\[ountains of voyage we entered the port of New York, October 20. Crete, towering 8,ooo feet above the sea level. Crete is one of the largest islands of In the stillness of night the magnificent the Mediterranean, and was then surrounded sight of the Statue of Liberty on one side -by the Turkish navy, sent from Constanti- and the suspension bridge on the other made nople to quell a rebellion. Those sturdy each spectator uncover his head in reverence mountaineers have not lost rn uch of the to th8.t glorious nation and prosperous com- spirit of independence inherited from their munity with which we were to come in con- forefathers, who stood a great show against tact. Tw.o months later, as I stood on the the attacks .of the Greeks and Romans. Ac- grounds of the Garnet, between the idle and cording to the Roman legend, Crete is the the athletic campus, I uncovered my head birthplace and burial ground of Jupiter, their again and thanked my stars that my lot was great god. cast in Old Union.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED S·EMI-MO:KTHLY BY STUDENTS OF UNroN CoLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. B. c. LITTLE, '9I' W. A. McDoNALD, '9r, I HoMER B. WrLVIAMs, '92, f E. J. PREST, '92. L. H. CARRIS, '93, }.·, J. w. VEEDER, '94, J. W. FERGUSO~, '91, G. F. MoSHER, '92, I H. D. MERCHANT, '93, f EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. AssociATEs. LITERARY EDITOR. ASSISTANTS. BusiNEss MANAGER. ASSISTANTS. TERMS, Sr:NG LE CoPIEs, $2.00 PER YEAR, TN ADVANCE. IS CENTS. We desire our friends to send us cont1 ibutions, items of interest and information concerning Alumni. Extra copies can be obtained on application to Business Manager. Subscribers not receiving papers promptly will kindly notify Business Manager. All remittances should be made and sent to THE CoNCORDIENSIS Schenectacly, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. V., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer and Book binder, Schenectady, N. Y. ' HE time is drawing near for the choice of Garnet Editors for next year, and a few suggestions may not be out of place, since objections may be urged against the present system. The Garnet need not nec- essarily be a Fraternity publication, and if it can be improved by not being so, the sys- tem should be changed. The primary ob- ject of a college publication of this kind is, beside being a memento for the students, to represent to outsiders \vhat the students do among themselves. To prepare such a .work needs an active cotnmittee working together. The present systen1 does not produce such committees and we would offer as a sugges- tion for '93 that the GarJtet be made a pub- lication of the Junior Class, the editors to be elected fron1 the whole class and limited in number to five. By this change the best men in the class would be elected while a com mit tee of five would generally work :, together better than a larger one. The i 1 Fraternities would be represented in the ', book as before, and would contribute to the • expense by taking a certain number of copies '. - -which, in fact, amounts to the present :: arrangement since each ;p·raternity virtually , buys by its contribution the books it re- ;; ceives. There is always talent for such : work as the preparation of a Garnet outside ·. the Fraternit!ies, and this talent will increase in amount as the classes grow larger. There is no time better than the present to make a change and this is offered merely as a sug- gestign to '93. We expect a good Garnet from '93 and hope they will consider the best means to produce one. * * * THE field day held on the college athletic grounds last week, brought very c.learly to light one fact, which, though guessed .at before, was proved conclusively at the close of the games, namely, those who train and practice wz\ll witt. This maxim will not always and in every case prove true, but it :i,s an excellent rule to go by, and in the end will justify itself. In the case in question, :the men who won the m9:jority of the events, and the men who had trained n1ost faithfully previous to the field day, are members of the Freshmen Class, and they are to be com- plimented on the excellent showing they made. There has been lately a real interest aroused in track athletics among the students and especially among the rr1em bers of the lower classes, and it is to be hoped that this interest will not be allowed to flag. There are men in the Freshmen class who, if not first-rate runners now, will easily and surely develop into such with training, and they can bring just as much athletic honor to their college as can a successful foot-ball or base-ball team. It caused the editor of this paper no pangs of regret to see a man who had not trained in the least, enter an event

THE CONCORDIENSIS. C!-Ud get defeated by an uncle~ classman, in fact, it was a great satisfaction. The Fresh- · men had trained and practiced faithfully and they deserved to win, an~ may they, and others., who thus P.ractice faithfully always win, and may they invariably lose just as soon .as they cease their training, with the thought that they don't have to practice to · . wtn. * * * IT is a great pleasure to be able to say that Professor Ripton, the Treasurer of the Union College Alumni Fund, reports that already quite a large number of subscriptions for the fund have been received from the alumni of the college. There are no very large subscriptions and there are very, very many alumni whoas yet have not responded~ but the amount already obtained, increasing as it is all the time, gives promise that this • appeal fro.rn U n~on College will meet with the hearty support that it deserve&. It will no doubt be a source of gratification to thc·se · who have given, to thus learn that others havea:Jso subscribed to this most worthy of causes, and it may possibly bring offering from some men who give because· others give. We wish that each graduate could or would give some sun1, however sn1all, to help swell this fund so that he might be put down as a financial and loyal supporter of his alma mater. A copy of The Pacific Magazine, published in Seattle, Wash., has reached our hands, and for various reasons it receives unstinted praise fron1 us. Replete with descriptions and the characteristics of that land of sun- : shine and flowers-a land, though much ad- · mired, as yet unvisited by us-it is an ex- tremely interesting rpagazine. But its breezy western air does not alone make it attractive. Its brighe stories, its pretty . poems, and its sensible editorials make up a paper which is fit to vie in a literary way with · our many eastern .monthly periodicals. -The Round Building has been receiving several needed repairs during the past week. -G. F. Mosher, '92, spent a few clays last week at Lake George the guest of Rich- ards, '88. -The Commencement invitations of the Senior class will probably be out by the 4th or sth of June. -·The Interco1legiate Field Day at Hobart College pro-mises to be the most successful in the history of the Association. -The annual convention of the Kappa Alpha Society takes place at Ithaca with the Cornell Chapters on Decoration Day. -The music for the Comtnencernent ex- ercises, including the ball, will be furnished by Gartland's Tenth Regiment Band. -L. H. Carris of the Sophomore class has left college, and intends to return after a year's vacation and enter the class of '94. -The Freshmen, on the night of their victory at base ball over the Sophomores, had a big bonfire on the can1pus and cele- brated until long after midnight. -By a vote of the Faculty John W. Burr, 'gr, has received a commencement appoint- ment in addition to the commencement ap- pointments made some time ago. -W. 0. Lay, '91, is spending his senior vacation at work in the Dudley Observatory. He has been offered and will probably accept a permanent position at the observatory. -The manager of the 'Varsity team is making arrangements for the game with the Alumni on Tuesday of commencement week, and expects to have a very exciting contest. -The game with Ridgefield arranged for June 6 will probably be played at some later date, owing to a reque~t from the Ridgefield management for a postponement of the game.

166 'THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. -The Senior Class have at last fully de- ' -The College Glee Club have adopted,~ cided to don the cap and gown to grad nate r constitution and elected the following of- in and have thus fallen in line with the grad- .· fleers for the ensuing year: President, E. uati ng classes of most of the leading colleges S. Coons, '92; Vice-president, A. J. Braman, in the country. ' '94; Secretary, G-. F. Mosher, '92; Treas- -The class ball games so far played have , ~1rer, J. C. McAlpine, '93; Musical Director, resulted as follows: The Fresh,men defeated ' Wm. C. Rost, '73. The Club will give a the Junior 27 to 9; the Seniors defeated the complimentary concert in the Chapel at 7.30 Juniors 17 to s; the Freshn1en defeated the P.M. Wednesday,June 24. Sophom:ore I 1 to 10. -H. W. Briggs, of the Senior Class, has left call ege to accept a position on the day boat '~Albany,'' running between New York BASE BALL. UNION, I I ; COLGATE, 10. Friday, May 22, Colgate played a return and Albany. He will return at Commence- game with Union on the latter's campus and ment time to graduate was again defeated. -The Rochester, University base-ball · The game though not devoid of errors, team, owing to lack of funds and players, was highly exciting from start to finish, and has disbanded and dropped from the NeW more enthusiasm was manifested by the York State Intercollegiate Base-Ball Asso- students than at any previous game this ciation. Finis corona! opus. . .~ year. Union presented her Freshman b.at- -Prob<lbly the last Junior hop to be given tery, Brookins and Sullivan, and they did by '92 was held in the \ Gym\ on the 22d themselves proud. Colgate started the in st. AJthough not largely attended, it was run-getting in the second innings by scoring very enjoyable affair, and it is to be hoped two. Union gained the lead in the third that '93 will be as successful with her dances innings by getting five runs on hard next year as '92 has been this year. batting and good base running. In the -The Commencement Ball to be given in fourth innings Union added one more run the Round Building promises to be the pret- to her credit and Colgate brought her score tiest ball that has been given in some tim e. up to four. In the fifth innings Colgate The great expense of putting down a suitable made another run, and in the sixth, on costly floor for the dancing is to be defrayed by errors by Union, gained the lead by getting subscriptions, and in the next CoNCORDIENsrs .four men across the plate. Union in her the names of the Alumni and others who half of the sixth scoring two runs thus have subscribed and the amount of this sub- making the score at the end of this inning scription will be printed. nine to eight in Colgate's favor. In the -The Chapel orations for the past two next innings, however, Union regained the weeks have been: Dougall, \Books Good lead by making three runs. In the eighth and Bad.\ Wemple, '' 1'he Study of Self:'' Union was blanked and Colgate made one Prest, \William of Orange.\ Meserve, run. Score elev·en to ten in Union's favor. \Are the Works of the Imagination Real?'' In the first half of the ninth Union was Prest, ''The Aristocracy.\ Hills, \The Tra~ning of a Hero and Statesman.\ Orr, \Cardinal Wolsey.\ Williams, \Causes of Our Political Degredation.\ easily disposed of and Colgate went in for her · last time at the bat deterrrl i ned to \vin. Tb e first man up knocked a little one to third base and was th ro\vn out at :first. The next

THE CONCORDIENSIS. batter knocked a long fly to centre field . which was captured after a long run by TaU. rnan. The third .man at bat lined out a . splendid three base hit and for a ·n1oment Colgate's prospects ·were bright. The next man struck out, ho\Yever and Union had won and the crowd was happy. In his endeavors to have his side win, one of the Colgate men used some rather questionable tactics which may very possibly be allowed in professional bail games but which are surely no credit to collegiate players. The score follows. UNION. Babcock, 2 b .........•..... Briggs, i:b . .........•...•. Little, 3b . ............ · .... . B.rookins, p ............... . Thatcher, l.t .............. . Tallman, c. f .............. . Smith , r. f. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . D-ale ... '·, s. s ... , •••.•...•.•.•••• S u 1·1 ivan , c .. . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . R. B.H. 2 2 I 2 I I I I I 0 0 3 2 I 2 0 I 0 P.O. A. $ I 9 2 I 3 I 5 0 I 2 0 I 0 0 J 8 2 E. 0 2 I 2 I 2 0 3 0 Total... . . . . . . .. . . .. . . II ro 27 IS I I COLGATE. Eckley,Ib ................ . Potter, p . . , .............. . DeWoody,Jd ............ . Brc)w·11, c .. f ............... . Leete, 2 b. . .. . . . .......... . Parso·n s, c. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Tupper, I. f ............... . Johnson, s.s., p ............ . Briggs, r.·f . ............... . R. B.H. I I 0 I I 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 3 2 0 2 I P.O. A. I3 0 0 2 I 2 2 0 I 0 8 2 2 0 0 2 0 I E. 0 2 2 0 2 0 0 3 I Total . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . ro 6 27 9 IO BY INNINGS. Union .. . . . . . . . . .. .. o o 5 r o 2 3 o o-r I Colgate .. . .. . . . . . . . . o 2 o 3 o 4 o I o-Io Three base hits-Tupper. Two base hits-Tupper (2) Briggs, Tallman and Briggs. Stolen bases-Tall- :rnan, Briggs, Parsons and Babcock. Struck out-By Brookins, 8; by Potter, 6; by Johnson, 2. Passed balls-Sullivan, S; Parson, 3· Bases on balls-Union, 2; Colgate, r. Utnpire-W. A. McDonald. Time of game-Two hours and five minutes. UNION, 9 ; CLINTON, 6. Monday, May 2 5, the 'Varsity defeated the tean1 from Fort Plain in a game which though close and exciting, was not very well played. There were no especial --·· ------- - - - ------- --- features of the ga,me unless it was the ex- ceeding! y poor and reckless base-running of the Union nine. The batting work on both side was very well done. Brookins and S ulU van for Union .. repeating their triumph of the Friday before. The day was an ideal one in which to \Vatch a ball game and yet the crowd of spectators was a very sn1all one. Up to the present writing not a game has been lost this year on the campus by the home nine, and it. would seem that the games ought to be at- tended by a larger number of people. Certainly the n1anage:m,ent of the nine can- not go on and arrange dates on the home grounds, when at every such game any- where from ten to thirty dollars is lost. The score of Monday's game follows: UNION, R. B. H. P.O. A. E. McCowatt, I. b . ............ 2 I 9 0 2 Brookins, iP· ••..• 'I ••••••• I 3 I I 2 Little s. s .•. ............... 0 0 I 5 I Daley, E., 1 ... f. ,, •.•.•.. s •••• 0 0 0 0 0 Babcock, 2,b ' • .. . . • . • . 4 • • Cl •• 0 0 3 2 I Thatcher, 1. f . .. \ ..... ... ' . 2 I 2 0 0 Daley, G., 3b .............. I 0 2 4- 4 Tallma.n·, c.f .... ~· ......... I I I 0 0 Sullivan, c. . ,, . . . . . . . . . f ••• 2 2 8 2 0 Total .................. 9 8 27 14 10 CLINTON R. B.H. P.O. A. E. Borland, p . ................ 2 ...., 0 5 2 ..::> Rosa. 3 h . ................. 0 I 0 I I Crow lev c. , ......... -. ' ~ .. .0 0 7 7 \ . ' ..) Fagan, I\. f ...........•. . ... 2 0 0 0 0 Brewer ' 2 b . ............... 0 I 4 3 I Smith, I -b . .......•.... .... 0 0 I I 0 0 Bro\vn, s.s ................. 9 I 0 2 3 :Mel Iarg, 1. f. • • • • • • • • • • • e • • I 0 I 0 0 Walwrath ............. .... I I 0 0 0 Total .. ·~ ......... .... 6 7 *23 I8 IO *Daley out, hit by batted ball. BY INNifNGS. Union . . . . . .. .. .. . .. I o 2 o o 5 I o *- 9 Clinton............. 2 o I I o o o 2 o- 6 Two base hits-. \Val wrath. Left on bases-Union. s; Clinton, ro. Passed balls-Sullivan, 3; Ct·owley, 2. Bases on balls-Union,. 3; Clinton, r. Struck out-B.r Brookins, 6; by Bosland, 6. \Vild pitches-· Borland, r. Time of game-Two hours. Umpire-C. W. Van Derveer. ...

r68 THE :C'O,NCORDIENSIS. THE FIELD DAY. THE GARNET. ' HE games held on the campus TuescLay, i (A Communication.) May rg, u~der the d_ir~ction of the l.Tm io~ : ~HE Garnet, the annual publication. ~f CoUege Athletic AssoCiatwn were ver~ sue .· w!.~ Union College, has not yet appeared th1s cessful. There were not so many entnes as year. Believing that some actio·n should be could have been desired, and no very fast;; .taken in the matter, and that certain of the time was made in the races, but they were i: editors were to blame fOr the non~appearanc·e close and well contested. J. L. Van Va!Ken- l, of the work, the CoNCORDIENSIS i.i\ its editor- burg broke the U 11ion College record hr : ial columns set forth the state of affairs, and, putting the shot (29ft. 2 in.) by coverin£ 3° ji naturally enough, placed the blame mostly feet and 5 inches .. H. W. Briggs, wh? cane ;: upon the two men to whom all look for the in second, also broke the record by 6 mcliles ' responsibility of the publication of a good The tug-of-war between teams fr?~ the hvo ;, Garnet, namely, the Editor-in-chief and the lower classes was the most exc1tmg event, !, Busilless Manager. Pursuant to the sense and was won by the Sophomores after a hard ' of the editorial a meeting was called by rep- struggle. The different events with ! he · resentatives of the different fraternities in- winners' names follow: , terested on April 28th to examine into the Ioo-yard dash-A. J. Braman, I I seconds, ··affairs of the .Garnet. first ; J. D. Jenkins, I I~( seconds, secoad · The first action of the board was to call Putting I6-lb. shot-J. L. VanValkenburg-,. for a report of the Editor-in-chief and Bu.si- 30 feet 5 inches, first ; H. W. Briggs, 29 feet ness Manager. 8 inches, second. These reports were quite lengthy, and set 220 yard dash-· A. }. Braman, 26 seconds~ forth in detail the an1ount of literary matter first; J. D. Jenkins, 28~ secopds, second.. and funds on hand. The lirerary matter em- One-half n 1 iie run-S. Braman, 2 minut(!s braced about the usual amount, and the 1 2 seconds, first; G. Furbeck, 2 minutes 1.5 I money from advertisements and other sou:ces secon s, secon . d d corresponded to the amount usually requued B\ 1 th · d ·1 G H D I for the publication of the Garnet. ~eye e r::e, one-d Jrfi ml eH _H· M ~ eJ. It was also shown that there were some I mtnut~ 77::z secon s, drst; .. d . . c ow- members of the Garnet board who. had not att 1 ~m1nu te 9~ sec on s, sec on . . ' . attended the rneetmgs of the board, and who Relay race, one-half mrle-F:eshmen~ I . had shown a spirit of utter indifference from minute 55~ seconds, first; Junrors, I mrn- ·th ·fi t .. e rs . ute 57 seconds, second. , The investigating board therefore passed Three-legged race, fifty yards-Bra~nu •· a resolution to the effect that it is the senti- brothers, 7U secouds, first; McCowatt au~ ·• ment of said board that from the standpoint Cassedy, 834' seconds, second. •' .of finances and literary matter on hand the i· Tug-of-war-Won by Sophomores. Garnet could have been published. The tennis tournament in doubles between It is now, undoubtedly, late to get out a E. W. Daley and D. Campbeii, Jr., and <i... Garnd. It is, moreover, certain that the H. Daley and C. W. Hills was exceedingly . failure to issue a Garnet will reflect little interesting and well played, and was won ()i[J •• credit upon Union College, and less yet upon its merits by the first-named players, ooly ' those members of the Garnet board who were after continued hard playing. · either indifferent or opposed to its pubiica-

THE CONCORDIENSIS. tion; but it is equally certain that, \vhHe, there has been a prevailing spirit of indiffer- ence and lack of har,mony in the Garnet· board, the blame rests upon the board as a ·, board, and not upon any one or two of its · officers. 1~RACY H. RoBERTSON. THE A TTRAC:riONS FOR COM- : MENCEMENT WEEK .. . . I. f • • • • • • • • • • • • --------~-~-----'-'-'--'--'''~------------' ~omeopathic ~edicai College and Ho~pita! ...,, ~7 6~ Oor. 63d Street & Eastern Boulevard, N. Y. ·City, ~~~R the be~efit ~f the aluroni and others .• 'J 1 nterested in U nton college, who expect to · SESSION BEGINS OCT. 1, 1891. CLOSES APRIL 1, 1892. be in Schenectady at .commencement time, .HE course of instruction is carefully graded, beginning in laboratory the follO\ViDE.\ list of attractions is printed. ~work and didactic teaching in Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology and '-' Histology. In these branches the students are provided with chemical Sunday, June 2 r. The ·preaching of the ~~paratus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, microscopes, and an instru- ments and material requisite for a thorough knowledge of the various sub- Bacculaureate sermon in the First Methodist : iects taught. The Seniors are carefully instructed in General and Special Pathol- cburch at 10:30 A. 1\f. Monday, June 22, ogy, Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as applied to all forms of disea~e. Clin,ical mstruction constantly supplements the lectures, material being is class day exercises by the graduating class 1 supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College. Bed-side instruction is given ia the diseases ofChildren, and in Obstetrics. Oper- and a concertby Doring's band will be held~. ations·in General Surgery and Gynaecologyat the Flower Hospital adjoining the College, and Laura Franklin Hospital for Children, in Captain Jack's garden at three o'clock in T. r. ALLEN, M.D., LL.D., .Dean. the afternoon, and in the evening at eight ; For information and announcement, address the Secretary, ' } k th l ' · t' f th L. L. DANFORTH, M.D., o c oc . e c ass exercises, consts 1 ng o e 35 WEsT srsT ST., N. v. CtTv. Class History, Prophec.y, Poem, Oration and , Address wiH be given by the senior class. 1'uesday is alumni day. In the forenoon the • different classes hold their reunions in the col leg~ recitation rooms. The General Alumni association n1eets in the chape[ and · n1eetings of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi societies are held for the election of offi- : cers and members and for other routine work. At one o'clock the alun1ni banquet will be serv·ed in Memorial hall. Many pronlinent alumni of the college have signi- fied their intention to be present at this banquet and good after-dinner speeches may be expected. At the conclusion of the ban- quet there will be a base ball game on the catnpus between the undergraduate ball nine and a team made up of alumni Tues- day evening the prize speaking takes place at the church at half past seven sharp. These contests consists of the ] unior and Sophomore or~toricals and the Veeder Ex- temporaneous speaking. At the conclusion of this prize speaking, most of the Greek ~- .... / ./'/ ,. *\ p. / . f ~~- - . ,_;-if?M~~JUir -'~ ~'-i ~. Slr~ef. . ~ ~·' ..BQ~/(;>/'1. 819/UYCH HOUSES 12 W/IRREN 5T IYEW YOI9X. 1?91 WrlB/'1511 IWE..,CiiiCrlGO. r.IICT019Y 11/iRTFOR/J .CCJI'tl't

IJO THE CONCO·RDIENSTS. --- -- --~------~---- Letter societies ~old their reunions, ban· q uets and initiations at their different lodge : rooms. Wednesday, June 24, is commence- .. ment day. Beginning at _I0:30 in the n1orn- , i.ng, the co.mmencemen t exercises, consisting · of orations by members of the graduating class, the conferring of degrees, the chancel- lors address and the awarding of prizes wifl take place in the Methodist church. Wed- nesday evening at half past seven, the col- lege Glee Club will give a complimentary concert in the coHege chapel. At its con- clusion the presid ent':s reception will take place at Dr. Webster's house, and at ten o'clock in the evenin_g, the commencement· ball, given by the senior class, will begin in . the Round building. With the closi·ng of the ball, some tin1e in the early hours of' Thursday morning, will close the 94th com- mencen1ent of Unj on college. \ · '2 J. Judge Rufus W. Peckham and family are now at their sumtner residence in the Helderbergs. '44. James F. Ra~som, a prominent citi- zen of Bangor, Me., and a n1emher of the Chi Psi Fraternity-, died at his home on · May 8. '88. E. P. Town is practicing la\v in Chi- .· cago. He expects to return to .Schenectady in J pne for the triennial reunion of his clas0 · · 8g. It . will i nt eres t the class of '89 to know that Nelson W. Wait is the father of the first baby born to a rnetn ber of that class. ----- ------------- --~----------- HIGH CLASS (/UAJ{ETTE \L~TEST ·ENGLISH\ A.ND THE STANDA!?D OF THE WORLD, '' SWEET CAP ORAL.\ ACADEMICAL COWNS & CAPS. Correct sty.les for UNIVERSITY & qoLLECE USE. Price ~ccording to Material and number ordered. Spec~ial prices for clases. For measurement send height, width of shoulder, size qf neck, and length of seeve .. These gowns add grace and ful• ness to a speaker's form. MILITARY EQUI PM.ENTS. SWords, Sashes, Belts, Boxing Clnves~ Foils, Footballs, Jackets; everything tfJat Students use in athletic sports, we supply. C. W.·S·IMMONS & CO., \OaK Hall,\ Boston_, Mass.

