~ THE CoNCORDIENSIS . .. VoL. XVII. UNION COLLEGE, SEPTEMBER 27, 1893. No. L Li tei(ct f!:Y. :. graceful it is ! How varied its themes, how sweeping its vision! It is the perfection of TH'E LITERARY ANU O'RATOHICAL EMI;N:ENCE OF GEORGE Wll'LIAM CURTIS. . scholarly conception; it is the consummate . flo\ver of expression. w.eu do\es the maga- 'Like the last stage of Milton's \preparation .. zine leave vacant the pages which this depart ... period'' were the years of travel in the life of • ment has filled so long. To this king there George William Curtis. With anJple store of . can be 110 successor. classic, rotnantic and historic lore, with the · But Curtis had a voice as \vell as a pen, taste of the artist and the soul of the poet, and its superb announcement :was at the call with youth and perfect health and vvith the · of honor. In the financial downfall of the profession of lit.eratu.re as a direct object, he Putnams, his private fortune was swept away, was prepared to glean all that \vas best in his and for the discharge of the additional obli-. four years of roarning through Europe and gations which he voluntarily assun1ed, his the East. It reminds us of that other Puritan lyceun1 lectures were begun. Such was the youth, who, two centuries before, had gone value of his prose threnody, whether it sounded out from his scholarly seclusion to feel the social and ~sthetic chords or \vhether it rang rapture of Italian verse and view the n1arvels forth boldly when gravest issues of national of Italian art,-The iast step in the training honor and human freedom \vere at stake, that was to render immortal the name of that when in r 873 he stepped from the plat-. Milton. form, never to ascend it again for pay, the. Ret~rned to America, Curtis began his burden had been lifted and he was a free literary career on the Nezv Yo.rk Tribune. At man once more. Curtis was a great orator,- fi,rst his pen. ran along cesthetic lines, which one of the greatest orators. Less artificial were afterwards to merge into broad, deep than Everett, he \vas his equal in iufuriance furrows, characteristic of the travels of the of diction ; less vehem,ent than Beecher l1e . . ' times, in touch with which he lived and \vrote. was his su peri.or in nicety of construction ; less After that his writings tnay be likened to a scholarly than Sun1ner, he vvas his peer in broadly flowing river, which passes through earnestness and excelled hitn in the orderly every clime, reflecting the local coloring of ·sequence of his thought. But why indulge each country through which it flows, rippling . in comparison ? Better than the speech, bet- and smiling in the sunlight. t re(er especi- ter than the writing of Curtis is the character ally to the Easy Chair, upon which the future behind. When all has been said that can be reputation of Curtis must largely rest. It is said of the literary and oratorical eminence one of the fairest products· of our n 1 odern of George WilliaJJ:l Curtis, there yet remajns literature, and the present can express no the '1/'tatt. better hope than that it will endure to be our When one vvho has been esteemed great in representative in the future. It is a n1onu- his generation dies, the present busies itself ment of a past that is dead; it is a mirror in speculation as to the durability of his fame. for the good that is present ; it is the work of Will his work live after him or will it fail to a hand that could touch nothing that it did stand the test of time ? Eagerly the question not grace. How stately, ho\vv sparkling, how seeks an answer from the future, and the

ADVERTISEMENTS. 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~------------~-- - --~~- = ----· ------- ---- ----~-----~---- ---~ - -- -~\ ---- September 12, 1893. Our .stock for Fall and Winter of l8B3 - '94 is now ready in all depart- men is. While the assortment will be found as complete and varied as heretofore, including goods of the hig l1est grade, we have not overlooked the necessity for moderate prices. Bro\oks Brothers, Broadway, cor. 22d St., NE'V YonK CITY. CLOTHING AND FURNISH- } ING GOODS, READY-MADE AND MADE TO MEASURE. CONRAD GOETZ~ ~CHftNT lfiiLoR, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Office Hoursfrom qA. M. to4P. 111\. 156 .Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WILSON DA TIS~ .. E. C. ANGI,.E, '86, Fres't. DANIEL :NAYLON, .TR,'~O, Vice Pres't. .ALLEN H. JAcKsoN, ~so, Se<;'y. HoRATio G. OLEN, 'Hl, Treas'r. SCHENECTADY FEINTING ftSSO'ClftTION Docs all kinds of Job vVork and Printing at reasonable pr:ices. College vvork solicited. 147 So. Centre St., CHanson Block) · SCHENECTADY, N.Y. I~ BJO 1/f~II/, 313 Sterle St., Scherlecictdy, Carpets, Matting, Oil Cloth, Furniture, Fancy and Easy Chairs, DESKS, BEDDING, BED SI)RINGS, CLOCKS, LAMPS, PlC'TURES, LA·CE AND HEAVY CURTAINS, A..T A Low· CASH PRICE. .GEO. T. LUCKHUltST, Tf ~ First-Cla/s8 Service. __,___AND -- •• $1!- A08A*'rt'~ · 141-11;3 Soztth Ce1~ire St. Oysters, Ste~ks, Broiled Chicken, Etc., to Order. REGULAR MEALS, 25 CTs. BOA.RD BY THE WEEK, $3.50. W. H. SLOVER, Prop:rietor. QUAYLE & SON, . . ALBANY, N.Y .. ~ -Eftf]Ifi!Bf J !It OR'> VISITiftG CARDS, STJ\TIDNERr, 237 State St., Schenectady, N. V. FO~ GL}SS A~D SOCIETY PU~POSES,

2 ADVERTISEMENTS. P~~~ON & ·::e:AL:L., RELIABLE SHOE DEALERS. New Stock. Latest Styles. · Good Goods. L-oweSt Prices.- PIITTON & tiiiLL, 245 STATE ST. Drawing Papers, Pencils and Instruments. All grades of Sta- tionery. Ordersj'or special Books notin stock filled pro1ttptly A'I THE LOWEST PRICES. HULBERT, 235 STATE ST., (Below the Canal Bridge.) SCHENE~TADY,· N,. V. A FULL LINE OF FINE • · . . . . •. ~MOil! G. JIIXIUBIS l · ... r{ (0lle~e ~ 000rl\ ~ ®0lt(lfe~ .. ·. Ix=portea a=ct Domestic .... ·~ y-_:n. ~TON, . CIQJIRS ~ Cl<lii~ETTEJ, Successor to J. A. O'NeHI,· ~45 Ja.y Street,. · Schenectady, N.Y. Freneh Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, Jlfr I!IOIIS!rM~HNttS Dr,__,_g Sto:re., 129 Wa~Zl St., r:vp. Post Office . .. Eenfral publisQin~ f{'0use COLLEGE CAPS AND GOWNS,. 433 STATE ST., CLA.SS CA~E$. MACKINTOSHES, &c., SchenE?otad.y., N\\ Y · For Union, Yale and other Colleges. PUBLISHERS OF STANDARD SUBSCRIPTION BOOKS COTEELL & LEO~ ..a.:RD-; ... Agents Wanted. Special Terms to College Students. 472 and 474 BltOADWA.Y, H. M. POLLOCK, \ FRJ\NK G. YOUNG, Secretary. President. ·Near :Maiden Lane, -. . .ALBANY.

: t '! . 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. door of the future closes to the quest. What one generation has cherished the next n1ay cast aside. The ~present knows not what may be the action of the future. But ·we of the present and rising generations, as often as we shall assemble to mourn illustrious dead, vlill ever account George William Curtis among our truly great American men. DOUGLAS CAMPBELL, '94· EXTRACT FROM THE LAWS. CONTROLLING THE MANAGEMEN·T OF \THE CO.NCORDIENSI.S.'' ro~ CompensatJon : The five tnen shall receive one copy each of the paper through Sophomore year; the thr,ee men four copies each through J unioryear; business tnanagers, four copies each from the time of their elec- tion; Editor-in-·chief, $roo; Business Mana- ger, $roo; Literary Editor, $5o, o\r pro .rata . up to these amounts and 50% of all profits ' above these amounts, and in· the same ratio. : The remaining so% to be given to the athletic . :: association of the college, and no divisions to .: be made until the report of the Business ·• Manager shall be presented at the last college meeting of t.he year, his .accounts having first In order to acquaint the tnen in the Fresh- :' been audited by a cotnnJ.ittee consisting of man class with the rules which control the : the presidents of the Senior, Junior and selection of editor-in-chiefof THE CONCORD!- · Sophon1ore classes, members ex-officio of the ENSIS, we print the following extract frotn the laws adopted by the college last fall. EDITORIAL BOARD. I. The selection of literary editors shall be by competition. 2. All Freshmen are eligible to the com- petition. 3· Registration of all competitors must be made \Vith the editor-in-chief by December 1st, of Freshman year. \ 4· Original work ·\vill be required from every competitor and special work under the direction of the editor-in-chief. 5· On the basis of all work submitted, five men from among the competitors shall be selected before the following June by a com- mittee as hereinafter provided for. comn1ittee. MUSH ER -SE\VA~R D. On the fifth July, at Rochester, N. Y., oc- 6. The five men selected, shall continue work as before, and, from among thetn, three shall be selected before the next succeeding June to continue until January I st, of Junior year, at which titne one shall be selected to act as senior editor-in-chief, and one to act as senior literary editor. 'f. All these selections shall be n1ade by a committee. Every committee shall consist of three n1embers-the editot-in-chief, the 1i terary editor and a mem her of the faculty, appointed by the faculty. The member from the faculty shall continue in office over the satne class until the final selection of editor- in-chief and literary editor in Junior year. 8. Vacancies occuring shall be filled by the committee in whose class the vacancy n1ay occur, and at their discretion. . curred the wedding o.fMary Josephine Seward) daughter of Willian1 Seward, to Prof. Howard T. Mosher, of the Modern Language ·Depart- ment of Union college. The wedding cere- mony \vas attended ~y the relatives and intimate friends, though at the reception fol- lowing many called to offer their congratula- tions. The ceremony was ,performed by the Rev. Dr. Adan1s, of the Congregational church of Rochester.· Chas. W. Ttun1 bull, '92, of Cleveland, Ohio, was best man. An1ong those present front Schenectady \Vere President-and Mrs. Webster, Prof. and Mrs. A.S.Wright and Mrs. Price. Imn1ediately after the reception Mr. and Mrs. Mosher de- parted for the Thousand Islands, where they spent theretnainder of the summer. Returning to this city a short time before the opening of college, fhey estab:lished themselves in a very pleasant home on Union street. CHANGES lN THE FACULTY. Prof. A. H. Pepper, Union '87, who last year was an instructor in the department of n1odern languages in Rutgers, has accepted a sin1ilar position at Union. g. The duties of literary editor shall be assigned by the editor-in-chief~ E. M. Burke, '93, is assistant professor in the English departtnent. Prof. Burke has charge of the Fresh.man vvork in this depart- nlent. ' .... '!~ ,;, -: ·~::·

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 5 ,fOOT BALL PROSPECTS. Never before in the history of \Old Union\ has the prospect for success in athletics been as good as it is for foot ball this falL Twenty- one men announcing thet'llselves as candidates for tlie \varsity\ is son1ething unheard of be- fore in the college annals. Last year an ineffectual attempt \vas made to arrange a · game with West Point. This year we play them on Nov. 4; Cornell, Oct. 14, and Wil- liams, Oct. 18. The team will have to vvork hard in order to get into condition for these early games. \Villiams and Cornell are very weak this year and the 'varsity, with proper practice, ought to tnake a good showing .... aga~nst them. .. For the first week t~e practice has been very good. The team does not play a rapid game yt~t but this is probably due to the un- accustomed signals. The month of October has some very hard ·gan1es in it and the team should acquaint thetnselves thoroughly with the signals as soon as possible in order to be able to give their entire time to the practice of tricks. The Cornell and Willian1s games being so early, it is necessary that the team should get into shape right away. The only \vay in which this can be done is by coming out promptly and playing hard while out. An innovation this year, a61d a good one, too, we think, is the systematized practice. In fonner years the men had no practice ex- cept a rough and tumble game every day. In this way a number of men were always laid up by practice gatnes. The idea this year seen1s to be to bring the men gradually up to their proper strength without laming or injuring them in any way. The starts practiced . every day \vill un- doubtedly make the men quick on their feet. Th~ Japanese wrestling participated in by the line men should quicken them and mate- rially develope their offensive and defensive play. The twenty-n1inute game every day gives the men ample time to learn the tricks and signals, while the ru.n which clo~~~ the .. \vork pushes them to their full capacity and wiH tend to get then1 into good condition very rapidly. RULES AND REGULATIONS. The Sophomores posted_ the following set of la\vs on the sidewalks, trees, telegraph and electric light poles on Monday night of last week. They seem to be very anxious that the Frosh go not astray and \Vere very kind in the tnanifestations ·of their care for the welfare of '9 7 : OH FROSH! RULES AND REGULATIONS. Section I. Conduct of Freshmen on the street,-when permitted to be there. 1. General conduct. All Freshmen must 'valk very circutnspectly in the public high- way. They must not stop to play marbles nor to quarrel with the children along the street ; but they shall proceed upon their way as becotneth good and obedient FROSH. 2. Conduct toward Sophomores and upper classtnen. When a Sophomore or U. C. is seen approaching, it shall be the duty of the Freshman to stop, remove his hat, and re- main uncovered until aforesaid dignitary has passed. Section 2. Conduct of Freshmen about the buildings. r. All Freshn1en must be in bed by eight o'clock. z: No Freshman is allowed to arise before seven in the morning. 3. All Freshmen tnust remove their shoes before entering the sections so as not to dis- turb studious Sophomores. 4· Whenever a Freshman shall meet a Sophomore in the section, he shall quietly withdra\v behind a coal box. 5. No Freshman shall be allowed to bring coal or oil into any section without first de- positing the required an1ount-three-fourths- in some Sophomore's box. GENERAL INFORMATION. Freshmen are ·warned against crossing the pasture when cows are in sight. Green things are at a pren1iun1. Sale of chapel seats \vill occur Saturday tnorning at nine o'clock, at the box office, north college. Notice for the sale of tickets to the Library,

; ' ., 1 I 'I '' . ' .. i , 'I :I 'i 6 THE C,ONCORDIENSIS. Museum; Capt. Jack's Garden and Tennis Courts \rill be posted upon the bulletin board. Arrangements have been made with all the leading restaurants and bo~rding houses, whereby Freshmen can secure the necessary amount of milk. All Freshmen desiring to vvorship \vill find the idol back of the Library building. Offer- ings of fruit may be handed to the priests,-··· the Sophotnores-at any time. The portion of the campus. between the \ Round Building \' and Laboratory \\'ill be reserved for the use of the Freshmen each afternoon from two to four; at this time they will be unn1olested in playing pull-a,vay, hide-and-seek, tag and other of their iittle gan1es. Copies of these rules may be found on all the principal telegraph poles in the city. Signed, CO!\:IMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS. TERRENCE ADE'L.PiiOE. Professor Sidney G. Ashn1ore has com- pleted his edition of the Adelphoe of Ter- rence with an historical introduction, notes ATHLET:I CS. Athletics have taken a new start, and dur- . ing the past y~ar have :quite reached the high expectations of the most enthusiastic supporters of this departn1ent at the college; This year we shall have the advantage of one years' hard work,-few having had more than this-the experience and training derived frotn the several events and games will materi- ally aid the 1nen on entering once more into active preparation for the coming contests. The developn1ent and endurance acquired will be increased, the standard of competi- tions raised, and the chances of a successful season considerably enhanced. The incom.ing class will furnish additional • material for the different departn1ents. Sev- eral quite promising candidates have already shovvn their ability to push the older{!)men for honors on the athletic field. Regular habits with thorough and constant . training only, will bring success. C. P. LINHART. ·and critical appendix. It is published by · MacMillan & Co., of London, in their classi- cal series and is a work reflecting great credit upon th~ author and his publishers. Prof. Ashmore spent a part of his vacation in Lon- · don, hurrying the \vork through the press in order to have it ready for use at the opening . of the collegiate year. The Sophomore class is the. first one to have the benefit of this new edition. They are reading it with Prof. Ash- TENNIS. With the opening of college has appeared a greatly increased interest in tennis and n1uch good material can reasonably be ex- pected to be developed in a short tim.e. It should not be forgotten by all those inter- ested in. tennis 0 that in a few weeks occurs, at Syracuse, the New York State Inter-Colleg- iate tournament. With practice and hard work on the part of Union's players there is no reason why we should not hold the tennis championship as well as those in foot ball and base ball. more this term. THE FOOT BA·Ll SCHEDULE. Oct. 7 .-R. P. I., at Troy. Oct. I I.-Laureates, at Schenectady. Oct. 14.-Cornell, at Ithaca, Oct. r8.-. Williams, at Willian1s. Oct. 2 I .-R. P. I., at Schenectad·y. Oct. 28.-Laureates, at Troy. Nov. 4.-West Point, at West Point. Nov. I I.-Syracuse, at Schenectady. Nov. I8.--Hamilton, at Schenectady. Nov! 25.-Rochester\ at Ro<;hesteL COLLEGE DlRECTORYi The Union College Christian .P\\ssociation has placed in the hands of the students a neat and useful hand book containing much useful information about the college and its organizations, the city ch~1rches and leading merchants. It also contains a short descrip- tive account of the college and its surround- . - tngs. ..

THE CON·CORDIENSIS. 7 OUR NEW TRACK. UNION AT LA.KE G:EORGE. Among all the improvements in our athletic . Geo. c: Baker, '88, N. W. Bates, '88, F. B. department Dr. Linhart has not forgotten.: Richards, '88, G. IL Miller, '94, 0. C. Richards, track athletics. During the sufnm~r months : '95, L. C. Baker, '95, W. L. Sa·wyer, '95, Ed- he has stayed in Schenectady; and through ward Shalders, '95, M. A. Twiford, '96, and • his influence \Ve have had built one of the A. S. Derby, '96, composed the annual en- finest tracks of any college in the state. The · campment of the Psi U. Navy ·at Kattskill track ,fs built of clay, and lacks fifty yards ·of· Bay, Lake George, frotn July 31st to August being one-fourth of a mile. · The hundred : 9th. They occupied Sn1ith's cottage on yards dash course is sixteen feet wide, and · Ripley's Point; and the stean1 launch Theta, the .remainder of the tra~k ten, except the · owned by Mr. Richards, of Sandy Hill, \vas curves which are twelve· feet wide. The . at their dispos•~tl to convey them to any point curves are all raised, thus making it n1uch · of. the lake. The weather \Vas perfect all the easier than the old track, to run on. As yet while, aud a most enjoyable tin1e is reported it is not very hard ; but as soon as it is used · by all. sotne, and is rolled once or h:vice, it 1vvill be in excellent condition. With such a track, and .. such an instru·ctor :we n1ay expect to see tnany records broken in our inter-class meet in the spring. Let every man do all he can. to sho\v his appreciation of the good work done by the college authorities. . - ATHLETIC MEETING. The Athletic Association held a meeting last Friday afternoon, in the gymnasium, for the purpose of getting rna tters started and putting the men in practice as early as possi- ble. There are a number of promising men FALL ATHLETI,C FIELD D.AY. A handicap rneet, open to the students of Union CQllege, \vill be held on the college g~ounds Oct. 20, 1893. The follo,ving are the events that will take place at that time : roo yards dash. 220 yards dash. 440 yards dash. 880 yards run. r mile run. I mile walk. I zo yards hurdle. 220 yards hurdle. Pole vault. Running high jun1p. Running broad jump. Putting 16-pound shot. Throwing. 16-pound hamn1er. 2-mile bicycle. in the Freshman class and with good training .. they may be expected to do good work for the college. Severaltnen have begun regular work on the track and the n1anagement is determined to put Union at the head in track and field sports as \vell as in foot ball and base ball. HandsQme Silver prizes are to be given in each event. CLASS ELECTION. The Sophomore class held a meeting in the chapel Tues\day afternoon and elected the foUo\ving ticket : President, Z. L. Myers ; vice-president, J. E. Kelley; secretary, R. Guernsey ; treasurer, J. Herring ; toast master, R. B. Beattie ; foot ball manager, C. VJ. ·Clowe; base ball manager, W. ]. Renwick; poet, · N. ·· E. Webster ; business manager of THE CONCORDIENSIS, H. F. Briggs. It 'vill be understood that this is to be thoroughly· a he;1ndicap n1eet, so each man stands an equal chance of winning a prize · whether he has competed before or not. Entries may be given to Manager Barnes or Capt. Alfen on or before 6 o'clock P. M. Oct. 16. Let every man vvho thinks he can do any- thing in the above events come out on the track and take regular practice.

I ~ ': I . I I l l. ; : t' '' '' i :. t '' 'It· 8 .THE CONCORDIENSIS. WELCOME TO NINETY-SEVEN FULL NUM:BER REGISTERED, 78. 18 Will Take the Classical Course; 2a the Engin· eering .; 27 the Scientific and l 0 an E·electlc Course. REGISTER OF THE FRESHMAN CLASS. 19 ec A. H. Birch, Amsterdam. 39 c A. M. BLodgett, Ingleside, N ... Y. 62 eng A. F. Bookhout, Walt.on, N. Y. I 6 c F. B. Boss, Schenectady. 57 c E. G. Bowers, Oxford, N. Y. 41 eng R. E. 13rizee, East Syracuse. 30 sci S. B. Bro·wn, Gloversville. 46 sci W. E. Bullard, Saratoga Springs. 47 ec A. D. Burlingame, Dryden. 14 sci B. Burtiss, Schenectady. 24 c F. T. Cady, Albany. 22 eng P. Canfield, Middletown, N. Y. 38 c E. S. Cl1amberlayne, Wellsboro., Pa. 44 sci W. T.· Cherry, Schenectady. 49 eng J. D. Clark, <;rescent. 25 eng P. J. Cleaver, Unadilla. 37 c J. C. Cooper, Schenectady. 19 sci J. S. Cotton, Burnt HillsA 34 c T. W. Cregan, Schenectady. 72 ec C. P. Crumb, Bloornfield, Mo: 28 c E. R. Cummings, North Madison, 0. 6 eng 0. J. Den1pster, Cazenovia. 48 eng C. S. Daley, Stapleton, S. I. 73 ec G. G. Daniels, Ogdensburgh. 59 c H. M. Dann, Downsville,. Del. Co. 6o lsa C. A. Da nn, Downsville, Del. Co. 55 eng Thomas Decle, Trinidad. 21 Is b G~ E. Denman, Auburn. 77 ec L. K. Devendorf, Herkimer. 40 eng D. M. Doherty, Fairport. 17 eng A. J. Dor:en, Ogdensburgh. 52 c E. E. Draper, Lansingburgh. 26 eng G. A. Ensign, Bemis Heights. 67 sci P. Filkin, Lansingburgh. 66 ec J. E. Fischer, Newark, N. J. ·69 sci M. R. Fonda, New York. 3 eog H. A. Frey, Palatine Bridge. 45 sci R. D. Fuller, Waterport I I c H. R. Furbeck,. St. Johnsville. 53 eng H. A. Furn1an, Schenectady. I 8 eng J. A. ~·Giles, Al hany. r 3 sci c .. B. Hane, Ohio, N. Y. 76 eng W. S. Hegamin, Lansingburgh .. 31 eng H. J. Hemstreet, GloversviHe. 6r sci H. Herring, Walton. 20 c J. Hotaling, Albany, N. Y. 43 sci E. H. Johnson, Norfolk, Ct. · 7 I ec F. G. Kelsey, Fort Plain. 4 eng C. V. l(irby, Canajoharie. 68 ls c T. J. i.,eonard, Schenectady. I c F. Little,. Rochester. 75 c A. McDonnell, Schenectady. 15 sci C. J. McMullen, Schenectady. · 63 c J. C. Merchqnt, Nassau. 64 c A. Merchant, Nassau. 50 sci G. Morgan, Brockport. 32 sci M. J. Multer, South Worcester. 35 ec L. F. O'Neill, Auburn. 5 r ec J. A. O'Neill, Schenectady. 74 sci F. P. Palmer, Ogdensburg. 33 sci S. B. Patrick, Cobleskill. 58 lsc R. A. Pearse, Minaville. 27 Is b 0. B. Pershing, North Madison, 0. 65 sci W. H. Robinson, Albany. . 70 c W. H. Sinclair, Schenectady. 7 eng S. E. Slocum, Schenectady. 2 5 sci A. Smith, Schenectady. 2 sci G. J. Swettland, Jr., Dryden. ro eng H. C. Todd, Saratoga Springs 56 eng W. Turn bull, Lasellsville. · 5 eng W. A. Westcott, Auburn. 9 sci R. E. Wilder, Newark, N.Y. 8 Is b G. E. Williams, Newark; N. Y. 42 eng H. P. Willis, Hornellsville. 36 sci J. Wingate, Princetown. · 54 eng F. T. Wright, Schenectady. 12 c A. C. Wyckoff; Pine Plains. 78 ec H. M. Young, Somerville, N. J. In addition the following men have entered the Sophotnore class : G. C. Merriam, Dennison, Pa. J. Wood, Gloversville. H. S. Vedder, Schenectady. A. M. Gregory, Bangall. Q •

THE CONCORDIENSlS. 9 UNION; VS. WilLIAMS AT THE CAMBR:IDUE FAlRc One of the: principal attractions at the annual fair recently held at 'Cambridge, Washington county, was a game of foot_ ball. between teams from Union and Williams colleges. In spite of the fact that both teams were out of practice, a good game was played, neither tearn being able to score. Union was assisted by MacCord of· Stevens Institute, · and by McPherson and Payne of the Troy Laureate team, and Williatns '\Vas aided by · · Ogilvie of the Cornell team. The teams lined up as follows : vVILLIAMS. POSITION. UNION •. Lafayette l. e. Robinson 1. t. Ogilvie I. g. Perkins Davis Taylor G. I-I ollister C. Hollister J. Hollister, capt. Evans Goodrich \iVilliams started c. r. g. r. t. r. e. q. b. 1. h. b. r. h. b. f. b. with the Myers· Payne . McPherson Linhart Van Voast Allen Young Melius I-Iolleran Braman MacCord, capt. ball and after a short gain were held. Union bucked the centre for several gains and sent a half back around the end for ten yards, getting danger- . ously near Williams goal when they lost the . ball. After a few gains titne \Vas called with the ball in Williams' territory. on the oppos-ing teams made sprints of fifteen yards around the ends assisted by the excel- lent blocking of the men back of the line. Both teams played an excellent game as the score shows. DOME ISLAND. Rising from the centre of Dome Island, in Lake George, is a tall and stately flag staff. From this staff has floated in the breezes all summer long a flag of garnet color ·with the inscription \ Union College Catnp.\ The island is the property of Pliny T. Sexton, of Palmyra,. our honorary chancellor of '93. Mr. Sexton, although an adopted son of \Old Union,\ has so much love and loyalty for his foster alma mater as to publish to all \Vho have been fortunate enough to sail this sum- mer on the queen of American lakes that there is a hon1e for all Union men on one of the most beautiful islands in Lake George. UNION ON THE SHORES OF LAKE ONTARIO. C. W. Fields, '93, E. D. Lines, '93, H. L. Baggerly, \'94 A. E. Barnes, '95, W. Allen, '95, G·eorge \tVilliarns, '97, D. Douherty, '97, and Wilder, '97, encamped on the shore of Lake Ontario during the last week in August. This is a good feature and there is no reason why the Alumni and undergraduates of Old Union should 11ot n1aintain an annual camp on the shores of Ontario. AMUSEMENTS. The following attractions \viU appear at the Van Curler opera house on the dates men- tioned : Friday, Sept. 29th.-\ The Black Crook,\ with car- loads ,of beautifu1 scenery, ,costumes and effects; three grand ballets. Saturday, Sept. 3oth.-Stetson's \Uncle Tom's Cabin.\ Matinee and night. Matinee prices 25, 35 and 50 cents.; Children, 15 cents. Tuesday, Oct. 3d.-Al. G. Fields' Columbian min- strels. Positively the biggest show on the road to- day. U niori started vvith the ball in the second half and rushed it dehwn the field. Williams secured it on a beautiful punt made by Cap- tain MacCord. Union soon had the ball again and Allen went through the centre with old time spirit for several yards. Captain MacCord made a bold dash for a touch down, but fell and time was called, neither side hav- ing scored. Great work was done in the second half by McPherson, Melius, Mac Cord and Braman for Union, and by Evans, Lafayette and the Hollister brothers for Williams. Fridav, Oct. 6th.-. Edwin· Stevens in \Wang · with over So people. The most gorgeous production of the piece ever given. Evans, W. and Braman, U., right half back Later we will have an opportunity of seeing \The Fencing Master,\ by DeKoven, composer of \Robin Hood,'' \Blue Grass,\ \Tuxedo James O'Neill in \Monte Cristo,\ \A Trip to Chinatown,\ \In Old Kentuckv,\ \Eight Bells,'' \Dr. Bill,\ \Joseph Hopkins' \'Trans ,Qceanics.\

·.' '1 'I 'I' 'I '' i • I ' ,, I . ,. i' ; , I 10 THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. THE CON'C:ORDIENSIS. PI1DLISRED ON liTERNATE \WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR Bv THE STuDENTS OF UNION CoLLEGE. . . BOA.RD OF EDI'IO.RS. AsHLEY J. BRAMAN, '94, H. L. BAGGERLY, 'g4, - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MkNAGElt C. W .. CRAN~ELL, '95,) J. M. CAss, 95, l- M AssociATES H. F.· BRIGGS, 'g6, J N. E. WEBSTER, g6, l . A. L. PECKHAM, g6, ~ H. B. VAN DuzER,'g6 1 - REP OR TORIAb STAFF M. A. TWIFORD, g6. J 'TERMS: SINGLE CoPIES, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE - I5 CENTS Address all communications to THE CoNCORDIENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. THE GAZETTE PRINT, SCHENEC'TADY, N. Y. The Concordiensis will be sent to every Student in College and to all ol<I: subscribers residing in and ~ut of the city, and unless we are notified to the contrary they will be considered as subscribers. OUR CALENDAR, Oct. 3.-Christian .Association. Subject, \ One Man Power.\ Oct. 7.-Foot Ball. Union vs. R. P. I., at Troy. Oct, 9.-J unior Essays due. Oct. 10.-Christian Association. Oct. I I .-THE CONCORDIENSIS, Vol. I 7, No. 2. Oct. I I.-Foot Ball. Union vs. Laureates, at Schenectady. How do you likt; our first number? The foot ball pennant must come to Union. We need it in our beautiful trophy room. The class elevens should be organized at once. The Starin cup is at stake this fall. We should not be so carried away \Vith the foot ball craze that we neglect our literary training. What are tbe Adelphic and Philon1athean societies doing? We have not heard fro·m them yet. We are not going to be contented with this issue but \villendeavor to give our subscribers a better paper every two weeks. One rnember of the class of '97 has already signified his intention of competing for the position of ed it:ar-in-chief of THE CoNCORD- lEN SIS. Students! patronize our advertisers. Give them your trade. They support your college paper and they have a right to ask you for your patronage. The leading article in this issue was crowded o.ut of the Con1mencement number. · Mr. CatnpbeU was awarded the first Junior prize at the last Comn1encement. The subjects for the term essays and ex- temporaneous discussions were well selected. ''The Silver 'Question ;\ \Federal Election Law,\ and •'1'he Educational Influence,of the World's Fai~r,\ are the important questions which are attracting the attention of the American pe<>ple. • Dr. Webster has been very busy during the summer arranging for the class of '97, and judging fron the number and appe3.rance of the tnen entered we think he has managed· affairs very a.dmirably. Every student is glad to see our beloved president tnoving about with his olcl time vigor, and we wish the doctor a long continuance of strength and .. health that he may be able to bear the bt1rdens devolving on him as President of Old Union.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 1 r THE CONCORDIENSIS is. our only coUege ·. year, however, there is an a bun dance of rna te- paper and as such deserves the support of rial. We still have \vith us the majority of every student. We \vant to see eyery under~ last year's second eleven and in addition graduate's nan1e upon our subscription list · about twenty-fiv.e men of the Freshman ·class before our second nun1her appears. have announced themselves as candidates for · positiOf!S on the 'varsity. The new men are To 'varsity we \vould say practice! prac- . more than anxious t<?get ou.t on the field and tice!! practice!!! To the second eleven, · Manager Cooke has not been able to supply con1e out on the field every day in the vveek · suits for all men asking for them. The and J~ive the 'varsity the hardest kind of a : varsity have had good practice games every straggle. ~6 the undergraduates, subscribe day since the opening of college and they to the foot hall fund liberally, pay promptly have been opposed on ,the field by some and be prese!lt at every fo.ot ball game. pretty strong ne\v players. The practice The Butterfield lecture course this year . begins well. Mr. Dana, of the Su11, the first lecturer, is a n1an who stands at the head in· his profession. His subject i.s one which is discussed n1uch in the ne\vspaper and magaz.ine, but we hear very little of it in the . college. rfhe editors of THE CONCORDIENSIS . hope to profit much from this lecture. Although this is not the base ball season son1ething should be said about base ball ~aterial in the new class. Nearly eyery day . since the opening the remaining n1embers of the '93 team, together with several n1en from '97, have been out on the field engaged in catching flies and base throwing. Son1e good ~aterial is being discovered and developed in the Freshman class, and when the proper time comes no doubt we will have a teatn worthy of our college and one which will sus.,. tain· our past reputation. Manager White has secured some good men and is still in communication with severaltnore. The prospect for a successful foot ball team is very encouraging this year-far more so than has been the case at this time during the last three years. Of late years it has been somewhat difficult so early in the season to get a sufficient number of n1en out to play any sort of a game against the 'varsity. This games have been played with a snap and ''get there\ \Vhich speak volun1es for the suc- cess of the 'varsity, if this spirit of determina- tion does not din1inish. A hetter game is played by the 'varsity to-day than they put up last year in our first regular game with the Laureates at West Troy. Manager Cooke has been busy aU sutnmer \corres- ponding \vith new men an.d n1aking prepara- tions for entering them at Union. He is deserving of great praise not only for this but also for the vvay in which he has started the foot ball season of '94. CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION. Last Friday evening, at the home of Presi- . dent Webster, the Christian association of the college, began its year's \Vork by giving a re- ception to the students, especially to those of the incoming class. About sixty-five students, professors and ministers of the city churches \Vere present. The ne'v students \Vere introduced all round. A few college songs sung and light refreshments served. At the close of the meeti.ng President Webster pleased all by giving one of his n1ost earnest talks encourag- ing the christian vvorkers· to n1ake greater efforts than ever before to ad vance the re- ligious interests of the college. A Con1plete programtne of the Butterfield lecture course \vill appear in the next issue.

:, i2 THE CONCORDlENS!S. Finnan, '94, has left college. Melius, '96, our last year quarter-back -vvill not return to college. E. ]. Webster, '93, located at Tribes Hill, . \vas in town over Sun day. Wilson, '96,. is in Chicago. He will soon return and enter the Freshn1an class. .,.. . -~ .... A. M .. Gregory, a forrr1~r m~rnber of the · class of '95, has returned and entered '96. · G.eorge H. Hoxie, '93, principal of the high school at Palatine Bridge, was in town last week. Yanney, '95, has gone into business in Boston. The foot ball team thus loses a good n1an. J. A. O'Neill, fonnerly a photogra..rher in this city, has disposed of his business and entered '9 7. Al-len, '93, captain of the foot ball team last season, is expected to coach the team for a \Veek this fall. C. \V. Field, '93, Clyde, N. Y., heads the Galen delegation to the vVayne county Demo- era tic convention. Perkins, '93, left last Tuesday for Can1- bridge, where he will pursue a post-graduate course in Harvard college. E. A. Vanderveer, of Albany, a former · n1etnber of '95, now at the Yale Sheffield scientific, visited his Alpha Delta Phi friends on the hill last week. E. J. Wieneke, ex-'96, has entered the class of '96 at the AJ.bany Medical college. Mr. Wieneke has been studying medicine \vith Dr. Schoolcraft, in this city. Gregory, '94, who vvas absent from college a portion of last term is back again and is prepared to do all in his power as captain of our foot ball tean1 to win another pennant. ] . C. McFarlane, Princeton, '94, and H. H. · McCowatt, ex-'94 Union, both of Amsterdarn, were on the hill Tuesday, watching the foot ball teams in· their practice garnes. They gave the tea.m sorne valuable points. Dr. T .. W. Wright returned Monday frqm his tour across the \Vater. Ife spent some tirne in Gern1any, attending a mathetnatical congress in Munich. The Doctor expresses hin1self as having had a very pleasant trip. .A. J. Brarnap, '94, and A. D. Bissell, '95, will represent the Union Chapter of Delta Sullivan, 'g6, the catcher on our base ball · '? · Upsilon at the fifty-ninth convention to be held with the chapter of the University of vVisconsin, at Madison, Oct. 4, 5 and 6. They will be accompanied by White, '94, and Stevvart, '95. tean1. last' year has returned. No doubt he will play good ball next season. Webster, '96, is still detained at Chicago by his World's Fair position. He will return to his college duties as soon as the fair closes. Mr. Kirby, of Canajoharie, and Mr. li'ry, of Palatine Bridge, \vere on the hill Saturday visiting their sons, who have both entered '97. Sloat, '94, 'vas called away fron1 college last \Veek on account of the death of a rela- tive. I-Ie returned to work, however, on Mondav. .. A. E. Barnes, '95, was one of the delegates to the Wayne county Republican convention \\rhich was held on Saturday, Sept. 23, at Lyons, N.Y. Campbell, '94, Daley, '94, and Perkins, '93, were contestants in the New York State Tennis Tournament held in Saratoga in July. They contested with such n1en as Hovey Hobart and Slocun1 a1id brought hotne son1e very handsorne and valuable prizes won in consolation n1atches. Professors Brown and Stoller have been engaged during the past summer in analyzing the water in the Mohawk. Their purpose is to ascertain ho\v far down the river the water is polluted by the sewage fron1 this city. They have also been experimenting with bacteria, using a process of extennination · \Vhich they have discovered.

THE c:ONCORDIENSIS. A new piano has been placed in the chapel. The faculty held a very important n1eeting last Thursday afternoon. The Psi Upsilon fraternity have a :rte\v ten- nis court in the rear of their house. The goal posts on the campus have been painted white. A decided improvement. · New~ bulletin boards, nicely painted, have replaced the old ones \vhich mysteriously dis- appeared one night last term. The glee and mandolin clubs will soon con1mence their rehearsals. There is rna terial in the new class for both clubs. Goodwin ; \Memoirs of :Charles Sutnner,\ by E. L. Pierce ; \ Baedeker's Hand Book of the U ni~ed States\ ; Bolle's \Financial His- tory of the United States; \ and ''General Greene,\ by Francis Greene. The members of the glee club met Prof. Rost in the chapel Tuesday afternoon at 2 :JO. Plans were laid for this year, and we under- stand that several changes will be made in the club. The first m,eeting ·of the Union College Christian Association was held in Prof. Hoff- · n1an's room at 4:15 Saturday afternoon. The vacant room in South college colonade, adjoining Prof. Winans' recitation room, \vill be fitted up as a trophy room in which all our athletic prizes and trophies of foot ball and base ball victories will be displayed. A large number of the '94 Garnets are yet unsold. George Sn1ith has the sale of these in his charge and will see that every man in college who will give hin1 one dollar is sup- plied with the best Garnet ever published at Union. A training table will soon be started when • the foot ball men will be put on a systen1atic · diet, preparing them for the foot ball season. The Alpha Dalta Phi fraternity will soon · con1mence the erection of a fraternity house . on the~corner of Park Place and Union street. Dr. Linhart has begun to take the physical . measurements of the Freshmen. As soon as possible regular gymnasiun1 work will be commenced. A reception \Vas tendered the- students of the college by the ladies of the Y·oung Women's Christian Association, at the Y. M. C. A. roon1s, last Saturday evening. While the Psi U. boys were encamped on Lake George this sun1mer, Miller, '94, dove . in fifteen feet of water and brought up an old anchor supposed to be a relic of the war of 1812. The Freshmen have adopted this for a class veil : Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! Rah ! . . Ninety-seven, Ninety--seven, Rah! Rah! Rah! It will probably meet the fate of \Hickety- hix.\ • Arrangetnents at:e being made for the for- mation of a college choir. This organization, it is intended, shall have charge of the m usi- cal part of the chapel exercises each morning. A competent pianist will be selected from the Freshman class. A scrap book will be purchased and kept in the trophy rootn in vvhich \vill .be entered all articles on foot ball and base ball and • athletics in general at Union, whether pub- lished in our college paper or in any news- paper. The students are urged to hand all such clippings to Dr. Linhart. The tennis courts have passed from the con- trol of the tennis association into the hands of the college. The tennis association is still in existence and desire as many ne\v men1 bers as possible. The initiation fee is fifty cents. Tickets affording men the privileges of the courts may be obtained at the registrar's office. About fifty new books have been added to the library during the surnn1er· vacation. Among the number are the following : \Eulogy on George William Curtis,\ by Parke At a college meeting held last Friday morning at the close of chapel exercises, re- marks \vere made by Manager Cooke con- . cerning foot ball, Manager White concerning

• THE CONCORDIENSIS. base ball, Douglass Can1pbell spoke for the '93· James W. Burke has a position in the tennis association. A. Bran1an made an an- High school at W·esterly,. R. 1: nouncerncnt \Vith regard to the Concordiensis. '93· B. H. Sanders is etnployed in civil Smith spoke about the Garnet and Barnes 1 engirieedng in N evv York city. and Allen spoke on track athletics. After I. '93· George .I-L. Hoxie is principal of the son1e songs and a rousing Union yell the high· school at Pa_latine Bridge. meeting adjourned. _ I · '93·. C. A~ Burbank is pastor of the Meth- :::::::::::~~~::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::~:::::: \ o d is t church at Cooks bo r o, N. Y. 1i.1tlUlfti 2l11-qsi011S· '93· Wright is studying lavv in the office of ~- G. /\. Pate, Atoka, Indian Territory. '93. I-I. l(line is reading lavv in An1sterdan1. . '93· C .. w.· Clowe has entered the New '93· George T. Bradt is reading la\v iu this Brunswic·k, N. J., theological setninary. city. 'g3. Lamb is engaged in engineering work. '92. J. V. Wen1ple of the Union Thc:ologi- lie is at present at his horne in Clifford. cal seminary, New York city, was on th~ hill '93· E. G. Conde is one of the reportorial 1'uesday. staff of the E~'etzing Star, iti this clty. '93· E. D. Lines is in business in .f\_n1st~r- '93. H. D. Cordovez is about to engage in datn, N. Y. business in H..ioban1ba, Ecuador, S. A. '92. A. W. 1-Iunter has entered the Albany '93· _I-Ienry Glen is reading law in the office La\v school. of his brother, H. G. Glen, in this city. '93· A. J. l~oy is at tl~e Dudley Observa- '93. Frank Cooper is reading lavv in this tory in Albany. city in the office of Postmaster Paln1er. '91. Ferguson called on his Beta Theta, Pi '93. H. H. Esselstyne is professor of Latin friends recently. _ l and history in the Brooklyn Polytecnic. '93. Charles W. Field is reading law ~this \ ,93· D. N. Tallman has a position as civil home, Clyde, N. Y. i engineer on the Great Northern railroad. '· '93· E. M. Burke has a position on the '6o. l-Ion. Warner Miller is recovering frotn Union College faculty. a severe sickness at his horne in Herkimer. '93. H. D. Merchant has opened an 1nsur- ,93· J. C. McAlpine is in the real estate ance office in Brooklyn. office of G. K. Harroun, Long Island Cjty. ,93· Burton Van Zandt ts attending the '93. Fred. Crane has gone to Johns Hop- Albany Medical college. kins, to take post-graduate vvork in chemistry. '93. S. G. Parent has entered Auburn, N. '93. H. A. Van Alstyne has charge of fhe Y., theological seminary. I con~truction of a sewage system at Fort '93· I-1\airlee is studying law with I-Iastings 1 Pla1n. and Schoolcraft, this city. '93. George T. Hughes is connecfed with '93· E. Gillespie is pursuing a course in· the Star during the absence of Conde, who is the Albany Medical college. in Chicago. '93· Fox expects to enter the business '93· J. R. Morey has accepted the position ·----.__ arena in Detroit, Michirran. of tutor'in the Irving institute at Tarrytown- '93, F. W. Grupe has entcr~d the Oberlin, on-the-Hudson. Ohio, theological seminary. '49· G~n. Daniel Butterfield, LL. D., the '93· F. W. Allen is engaged in civil cngin- well kncnvn founder of our lecture course, has eering \Vork in Hoosick Falls. been seriously ill. Gen. Butterfield was taken '93. E. J. Webster is acting as principal of sick at Chicago and was taken to his summer the Tribes Hill village school. hon1e, Cragside on the Hudson. opposite West

• THE CONCORDIENSlS. I5 Point where he is receiving n1edica1 attention. . . ' We wish the general a speedy recovery. '93. Warren B~ Lippincott has a professor- ~ ship in the Case School of Applied Sciences, • Cleveland, On io. . 'gz. \Villian1 T. Dougan_, of Mineville and . Miss Clara C. Eisenbrey, daughter of Dr. E. : C. Eisenbrey, of Glovet..:sville, \Vere n1arried c August 29. '48. W. J. Stiiln1an l1as a very interesting · article in the_ .LL\ugust -nutnber of the CcJZtury Ma_gazine on \The Philosophers Ca111p,\ de- scribing -a SUrtlmer in the Adirondacks \Vith a party composed of E-merson, Agassiz, Lowell and others beside himself. In the September number of the san1e magazine is a sketch of · the life of Mr. Stillman with a portrait. This distinguished son of Union is now residing in Rome, Italy. THE COLLEGE WORLD. Heffelfinger and\ Pop \ Bliss are coaching the Palo Alto foot baH team. The colleges throughout the country are entering large Freshn1en classes. There are 77,000 fraternity tnen in our American colleges-so says an exchange. The nevv Associate Judge of the Supreme Court, I-I on. W. B. I-Iornblower, is a Princeton man. Leland Stanford University is the heaviest end.o\ved educational institution in the United States. Columbia college stands second. Oberlin was the first college in the world to admit \Notneti on the satne plane as tnen, and opened its doors to the negroes twenty-eight years before their ernancipation.-Ex. Two of America's celebrated colleges sprang into existence about the satne tin1e. Williams was founded in 1794 and Union· in 1795. Both are no\v passing the hundredth tnile stone of their history under n1ost auspic- ious circu tnstances. PresideH{~~hwing, of Adelbert College, has very carefully·'~one through Appleton's Cyclo- pcedt'a of' A tner}'ca1~ Biog-raphy, keeping an ex-[ ;; ,• #' ·~ .. \~.' \; D:)liEP -~J)OP{iN(i ·~LE: · IXllJJ{E ;p ¥\5>-~ · f~MMEHT · FAVOR.rre:. B'O.R.. T:::EI:E FIPEL 1\Iade by MARBURG BROS. FRED E. WELLS Would ask those conte1nplating leaving their measure for a Fall Suit, Overcoat or Pants, to first in- spect our -stock in these lines. Our goods fit well, wear well and look well. Many prefer a sure fit in RBaOu-MaOB GIOthlllO to a chance fit in Custom-Nlad-e, and why not you. when you can $ave 40 Per Cent. on the price of a gannent. We also curry a large and complete line of Furnishing Goods, Hats and Caps in leading styles at popular prices. Full line of the latest E. & W. t.OLLAKJ AMI:) ~\IFFJ. 401 STATE ST., Cor. Centre.

• 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. act record of the men ·who have graduated , from college, and those who have not~ Out of I 5,142 persons, who have becon1e noted , enough to have their natnes and lives in this vVork, 5,326 are college graduates and 941 of the ren1ainder are graduates from son1e acad- . emy. The ratio of college grad.uates who are n1entioned in Appleton's Cyc!opmdia to those that are not thus mentioned is one to forty, while that of non college men w·ho are met1- tioned to those who are not, is about one to ten thousand. The nun1ber of graduates fro,m the leading colleges is as follows : Harvard, 883 ; Yale, 7 I 3 ;, Princeton, 3 rg; Dartmouth, 208 ; Cornell, I98 ; Brown, I 89; Union, r 88; Pennsylvania, I 7 5 ; vVilliams, I 57 ; Bo\vdoin, ' 104; Amherst, 102. A TALE OF WOE. Puer ex Jersey lens ad school Videt in meadow Infestus tnule. Ille approaches 0 magnus sorrow Puer it sky \Vard Funus ad-tnorrow. MORAL. Quividet a thing Non ei vvell known ~~st bene for him Relinqui id alone. -f{or t !rzve s t er ll. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. H. MANSFIELD, Proprietor. ;RICHMO~D ST~AI<i:ttT CUT H~ I Cl<iAKETTEJ. Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the pdce charged for the ordtnary trade Cigarettes, will find this brand superior to all others. The Richmond Straight Cut No. 1 Cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately :flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the old and original brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was bought out by us in the year 1875· Beware of Imitations, and observe that the firm name as below is on every package. ALLEN &; GINTER BRANCH The American Tobacco Company, Manufactnrers, RICHMOND. VIRGINIA. rntliiesiioA Horsford's Acid Phosphate Is the most effective and agreeable remedy in existence for preventing in- digestion, and relieYing those diseases arising from a disordered stomach. Dr. W. W. Gardner, Springfield, Mass., says : ''I value it as an excellent pTe- ventative of indigestion, and a pleasant acidulated drink when properly diluted with water, and sweetened.\ Descriptive pamphlet free on application to Rumford Chemical Works, Providenae, B. I. Bfiware of Substitutes and Imitations. For Sa.~e by a.ll DX'\\.:lo.ggie-te.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. IJ 11. s. DJIKNEY. & co., . . NEW YORK HOM<EOPATHIC 217 to 223 State Street, . MEDICALCOLLEGE A.EE E:E.A..DQU .A.RTERS FOR AND H OS pITA L, Gents' Fnrni.sbtng Goods, H:OSI:ECRY, ETC. Pri;oes Lower, Styles :Better, than·any oth,er House. STUllENTS ~AND OTHERS~ If You Want La~~:~k!~~',et~:;Ware, Housefurnishing G~oods, 4 Silver Ware, Bric-a-Brac, &c., You will find all at S \ JA,'ES the popular stores of • d;V • · · .JAVJ. · ' ZOa & Z04 S'::I:'A':J:'E ST. 7 Schenectady. F. W. DWYER, P~OP'R. ~ Jmv~i~~~~~ ~~~'• ~ HOTEL EDISON. CollegeStud.ents'E:airCutting-aSpecialty .. Co:r. 63d St. and Eastern Boulevard, N:ew York City. SESSION BEGINS OCT. 3, 1893, CLOSES MAY 1, 1894 The course of instruction is carefully graded, be- ginning in laboratory work and didactic teaching in Chemistry, Anatomy, Physiology and Histology. In these branches the students are provided with the chetnical apparatus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, microscopes and all instruments and material requisite for a thorongh knowledge of the various subjects taught. . The Seniors are carefully instructed in General and Special Pathology,. Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as applied to all forms of disease. Clinical instruction constantly supplements the lectures, material being supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College. Bedside instruction is given in the diseases of children, and in Obstetrics. Operations in General Surgery and Gynrecology at the Flower Hospital ad- joining the Colleg®, and Laura Franklin Hospital for Children. W. T. HELMUTH, ltl. D., LL. D., Dean. For information and announcetnent addres~ the Secretary, L. L. DANFORTH, M. D., 35 West 51st St., New York City. The Union Clothjng Do. THE VEOYLE'J. Of ..A..~'bany-7 GUARANTEES A SAVING OP STORE. AN ALL-ALIVE HO\ISE. $3.00 on $10.00 \The M idd Ieman's Profit.'' 80 & 82 STATE ST. SAFE! CERTAIN ·I QUICK! PLEASANT! - ~~~~~ A TRIAL SATISFIES. P • t• OF EVERY rtn tng DESCRIPTION At THE GAZETTE Office, 148 S. Centre St.

'. 18 ADVERTISEMENTS. ELEVAN OUSE, .A.L E ANY., ::t-::r. Y .. ., Headquarters of ·College Associations while visiting Albany. HUR·LY & M·OORE, Pr.op'r·s. -TRY A- The HRAPID WRITER\ FOUNTAIN PEN. { BEFO. RE. BUYING RAPID WH.ITER. {{ TINCONDITIONA.LLY wa1•ranted. Do'uble Feeder that neve?· jails. The best and cheapest. Late2t improvements. ·Best Gold Pens. ~ Send for Circular D . .ARTHUR J. BARNES, Law Reporter, St. Louis, Mo., says: ''The' Rapid W'i'iter Fountain Pen.s' ar~ the most delightful pens I ever tried. The t.ouch is like vel:vet. It will write a hair line and will shade with ease.,, ..A..LV ..A:a:: :FA:t:aLEE., Agg-ent., ScHENECTADY, N.Y. FOUNTA.lN PEN ()0., Wa&hington, D.(). BOX 606 LEVI CASE & 00., GODDHr Brass and Sheot Iron Wnrk rrrr dll T ~ 9 ~#ll r ~9 · IF~ ~~9 ' ' Trunks, Bags, Gloves, Umbrellas, Mackintoshes, &c. STEAM, HOT WATER ,/[JV'D Also CLASSOANES. · FURNACE HEATING ' .. A SPECIALTY. --BOSTON\\ ®nE .. Price (l0thin~ ft0use, 320 State St., Scl~ertectctdy, N. Y~. A Fine line of Ready- made Clothing and Gent's Furnishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM WORK A SPECIALTY. Jos. Gioscia's Orchestra ~ --OF-- Harman us Bleeck.er Hall. JAUSIC ful:\_NISHED fof\}LLpccASIONS Guaranteed the Best Orchestra. 11 CLINTON AVE., ALBANY, N.Y. L. T. CL\'CT\TE., Hatter and Forrier, 227 STATE STREET, SCI-IENECTADY; N.Y. ~SINS A DA\IQI1'S ~ ~r-.-\.r-...~ ·Gat6r6r o R6~taurant. STRICTLY FIRST -CLASS SERVICE. Guaranteed for Wedding Parties, Etc. .Also, the best of lee Cream, Fancy Cake and Confectionery. 20 Third Street, - - TROY, N. Y- ·PAY' YOUR~. t • .. · ~SUBSC.RlPTION TO The Concordiensis. ., ., G - Ice - Fisl -

i\DVERTISEMENTS. I9 J. TRUMBULL LYON, (Successor to W. T. 1-Ianson & Co.,) GitU Boot ~IS hOB Stor6 - --::=\.. ~t:n . J. G. SCHUMACHER, Prop'r. Toilet Articles, Etc., Etc., Fine Cigars a Specialty. 335 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y .. 9fJMt86Jf/ PiMJfJ /P(!}){f}J'4Wt!NJLI! 5 l 9 State Streets ''Character in Printing'' Tells. P. F. McBREEN, Printer, Removed to the New Fire=Proof Building 218 WILLIAM .ST., N. Y., Next to the Brooklyn Bridge. YOU SHOULD DRINK Ronal DUt6h GOff66. IT IS DELICIOUS AND HEALTHFUL. T'he strongest and finest flavored Coffee in the market. It \vill not disturb the n1ost deli- cate stotnach. Consult your present and future Greater Facilities for the comfort by refusing any other kind but ''Always Ready Printer.'' . \ROYAL DUTCH.\ , RESTAURANT ·-IN THE- ~- l!v.t. 0 .. .a. :Su:CLD::C~G, Now under the direction of the Association. Rooms especially reserved for Ladies. OPEN FROM: 7 A. M. TO 10 P. M. ~ Ice Cream in season. Regular Dinner 25c. Pleasant Rooms. Prices Moderate. J·f\Y f\. RICKARD, Wholesale and Retail Dealer in Fishing Tackle,· Fire Arms, Lawn Tennis, Foot Ball Supplies and Sporting Goods, No. 2 5·3 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. AQQ\IST St~MII)_T, . Shaving &. Hair Dressing P.A.RLORS::r pPP. jroisdN jfoTEL, · CUP-STAIRS.) Sole Agent for the justly celebrated Haines Brothers, Decker Bros., Keller Bros. and Jacob Bros. Pianos, and Unit€dStates, Estey, Clough& Warren, Ster- ling and Bridgeport Organs. Prices Lo1v t~n cl 1..,erni8 Libero.l.

·: i ·' ! '\ .. :l i 20 ADVERTISEMENTS. tHAS. N, ·Y ATEJ & J:ON~ . Stt. ,/J~MllS /l!fJftll~·~ u6 State St., Schenectady . ....-.--UTICA, N. Y. l!lllflN11!111JIB Wt~llllllfJ(I)M8, SMITH &. WHITE, Proprietors. Beds, Chairs, Mattresses and all artiCles pertaining RATES $2.00 and $2. so-. to furnishing students' rooms. .... Goods Delivered Free . ALL THE BEST GD-A])ES OF Fine .Foot '-xrear vv ' Oysters and Little Neck Clams, . To ve had at all linus and bz any quantity, in the shell or opened to order, at UNION IJ.JLLL BLOCKJ 429 State Street, • •· - • Schenectady, N. Y. WIENCKE'S, - - 322 State Street. 'The Most Complete Line and Latest Styles. PETER JM:_ DOT-y-, PHOTOGRAPHIC ·sUPPLIES -DEALER IN- of all kinds for Professionals and A:mateul'S. Full lines of leading makes of .ftats, ~aps, C[lrunlZs, l&a2s, Etc. (ameras, DryplG\tes a~d (ard ~t0clZ A:t the lowest market prices. Dark Room for use of customers .. Sole Agent For Knox & Miller Hats. --FOE__,--- Roses, Cut floWers, or Funeral Designs, --GO TO-- GRUPE, THE FLORIST, 125 Wall St., - Under Edison/Hotel. SO:S:EN\\ECT A.D·\'Y' THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, 6 and 7 Central .Jlrcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. J. N\. UoDO:N\\N ..A.L:O, Opp~ Union Depot Afcade, 544 Broadway, Albany, N. Y. ~OOD :SEOS~., - 296 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. M:EN'8 FURNISHING GOODS, ~HIRTS, UNDERWEAR, G~OVES, HOSIERY, NECKWEAR, C9LLARS AN~ .CUF.FS. II@r Goods received for Troy Laundry. BARHYTE & DEVENPECK, Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Lime, Ce,ment, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, G·rain, Baled Hay and.Straw and Fertilizers, 306, go8 and 310 Unton and 209 and 211 Dock Streets, SCHENEOTADY, N. Y; ,',·: ... :\,.· ( '.·' '• ~~.· ! ,_,. ' .:.·

