THE CoNCORDIENSIS. VoL. XVII. UNION COLLEGE, JULY 3, '1894· No. IJ. 'f!lrR:ST BLAT-tHFORD ORATION. The 'Crusades and Modern CivilizaUon. Grand as all this \vas, the indirect ·results of the Crusades have even a deeper signifi- cance. In the echo of the bells dtat tolled the death-knell for the leaders of the Crusades Three great constructive epochs in the • ,vas heard the pron1ise of the political de .. history of Europe serve as conspicuous land- · liverance of Europe. Steadily, irresistibly, marks o:f ht1·man progress. In the first and ' through long years of the past had been de\ second centuries before the Christian era, , veloping the n1ighty system of Feudalisn1. Ron1e., i1n obedien.c:e to the impulse of a ·• Individual liberty was lost-. \No rnan \Vas genius for conquest,. for organization and for . 'Without his lord.\ But as otie after another governrn:ent, had brought the whoL.~ of the . of the great fe.u.dal barons put on the Cru- known \Vor:ld under the sway of her law, and sader's mantle and set forth never to ~eturn, laid deep the foundations of tnodern civiliza- the systcn1 began to totter toward its down- tion. Fifteen hundred years later Europe fall. It had served its end in history, and its felt the quickening po\ver of that new life overthrown made \Vay for a better social \Vhich we call Renaissance and Reforn1ation. order and a truer national life. Standing between these two eras is another, . Sirnultaneously the serf advanced. The possessed of a like significance and den1and- stimulus of travel and of different surround- ing a Eke consideration-the era of the · ings, the contact with t~vo ne\v civilizations, Crusades. quickened his \vhole intellectual life; and he The great forces of history are largely un- returned to Europe a ne\v n1an. consciotts forces. The race in its upward Moreover the Crusades occasioned inter- progress, in its .fighting and toiling and su,ffer- change of con11nodities as \Veil as of thought. ing, has often wrought for invisible ends. In then1 arose that spirit of com rnerce de- Out of nnnoticed events and unmarked efforts stined to create great empires and carry have cotne the tnost con1tnanding results; civilization to the ends of the earth; while out of apparent defeats the noblest victories. the citie.:; gro,ving in numbers and in strength, Gloon1y failure slowly changing into splen- begin to assert that n1unicipal liberty \vhich did blessings-such \Vas the issue of the \Vas at once the pron1ise and the potency of Crusades. Ho\V their story awes and thrills our modern civil freedon1. us yet! We picture to ourselves the multi- The Crusades served another purpose. tude at the Council of Clern1ont, the passion- They kept the Turk out of Europe for three ate appeal of Urban the Pope., the eager hundred years. They gave tirne for the acceptance of the sacred symbol of the cross, Gennanic people, \vith their vigor of brain the thousands shouting: God \vills it! God and muscle, to organize great nations, strong \Vills it! We dvveH in imagination on the ten enough, when Christendom met Islam in that Crusades that foUowed; on the heroic deeds · last conflict for mastery, to maintain their of Godfrey of Bouillon and Richard the Lion- existence and preserve to the \Vorld a I-Iearted ; on temporary deliverance of the Christian civilization. sacred places from the rule of the hated But vvas the Church, whose appeal had Moslem ; on the uncounted lives sacrificed to aroused Europe to these mighty undertak- the honor of the Cross-and in vain. ings, to reap no benefit frorn the Crusades? Yet it vvas not all in vain. The lives of Her own history rnakes answer. The pious men 1vere s\vaye~ by the inspiration of a · everywhere had come to think with rever- great putpose. In the place of a torpor ence,-aln1-->st with adoration-on the Holy broken only by petty warfare and dornestic Sepulchre and the Sacred City. But \'Then bra,vls~ 'A-~ere substituted an intense enthusi- Sepulcre and City \Nere held by the Infidel asm, a ,fierce religious zeal, a mighty energy men began to turn their thoughts to\vards an glowing with the \vhite heat of passion. All invisible city of God and to learn the lesson l~urope \vas startled into a nc\v life. that not by long pilgrimages were they to

ADVERTISEMENTS. I ESTABLISHED 1818. E. C. ANGLE, 1 80, Pres't. DANIEL NAYLON, Jn;, '80, Vice Pres't :SROO:E:·s :SROT:::S::E~S., Broadway, Cor. 22d St., N. Y. City. CLOTHIN·G and FURNISHJ:NG· :G:Q:Q:DS READY MADE AND MADE TO MEAS URI~. Specialities for Spring and Summe·r of 1894. READY MADE. Riding Jackets of tweed, with Linen Duck: Tennis T<I·ousers, long trousers or b1·eeches white or brown,. different and leggings. 'yeights anel qualities. Knicketbockers, nmde up plain for rough country wear or \Samlown Racing Coats and ALLEN H. JACKSON, 'i:i(j, See'y. HoRATIO G. OLEN, '81, Treas'r SCHE-NECTADY t>RINTING ftSSOCiftTION Does all kinds of Job vVork and Printing at reasonable prices. College work solicited. 147 So. Centre St., CHanson ·Block) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. reinforced with buckskin for \Coverts withsilk or.serge riding. Scotch knit stock- lining. 7l Dl a l!J G!J 'Ill! ings or Devon leggings to Heavy Cord Ri(;fing -waist- , ~ ·~ ~ ~ W ~ ~ match. coats. In the department for Clothing to Order wUlbe found Scotch 313 Sta.te St., Scl~e71bectady, and English suitings in all the year rou.nd and tropical weights, and a large variety of other goods, giving the fullest oppor:tunity Carpets, Matting, Oil Cloth, Furniture, for seleclion. In the style and cut of our ready made clotlliHg we h.ave en- . Fancy and Easy Chairs, deavored to guard against those exaggemtions of fashion so , generally founcl in lo·wer grades of garments. DEST.T c BEDDING I3ED SIJRINGS In our Furnishing Department is a carefully selected stock of '· · · l'-.. ... 'J, , · · ' · • ·, • : -t · ... · ·' · · , goods, embracing about eyerything in that li:Be and inc'luding CL· Q(l.T.S, LAMPS, PI· CTURE.,\'S many seasonable novelties. In this department we have added .1\\\.. a new line of leather and wicker goods, incl,uding Luncheon LA·· CE AND· H£- 1 AVY ·CUR. TAI. NS, Baskets, Holster Cases, Sheffield Plate Flasks, Riding 'Vhips, Crops, Dog Canes and Golf Sticks. Catalogue, samples and rules for self-measur~ment will be sent AT A LOvV CASH PRICE. on application. CON~AD GOETZ~ GltU Boot ~~ShOB StorB ~CHftNT lfiTLoR, J. G. SCHUMACHER~ Prop'r. 3. Ce1~trctl \flructde 519 State Street. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. --AND-- 8$$·t' Ao:aA•t-, 141-143 Solttl~ C!e1~lre St. Oysters, Steaks, Broiled Chicken, Etc., to Order. Office Hours _fro11t9 A . ..J!. to 4f...J. Jlf. REGULAR l\:1EALS, 25 CTs. BO.A .. RD BY THE \VEEK, $3.50. 156 Jay Street, Schenectady, N.Y. W. H. SLOVER, Proprieto1 ... QUAYLE & SON, ALBANY, N a Y ., VISITI~G CARDS, STATIONERY, 237 State St., Scl1er.cctady, N.Y. FOIL CL;\SS A~D SOCIETY PU~POSES.

ADVERTISEMENTS. New Stock. Latest s.tyles. Good Goods. Lowest Prices. PATTON & HALL, S·HOE bE.IILERS, 245 .STATE .ST. Dra·zuing Papers, PeNcils aud instruments. All grades of Sta- • tiuJZery. Orders for special Books not in stock filled promptly AT T J!A' LO ,WEST PRiCES. HULBERT, 235 STATE ST., (Below the Canal Bridge.) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. SUCCESSOR TO J. A. O'NEILL, PHOTOGRAPHER. Studio, Jay Strl~et. Publishet· of College Album. A FULL LINE OF FINE French Briar and Meerschaum Pipes, #1:1' lf/Jf/JNS:PM;~LNN~S D:r\.:t.g Sto:re~ 129 WGtll St., OpJJ. Post Office. - . (entr&l publishin~ tf0use . .···· .BosT~:N 433 STATE ST., ®nE'\' op. fl(e (.'l0fh111r.i lJ'0USe Sch.e::L\'l.ecta.d:y. ::t::r. Y _ \ 1 \:5 1 ~ ' PUBLISHERS OF STANDARD SUBSGRIPTIO:N BOOKS . 320 St~te St., Scl~enectctdyJ N.Y. Agents 'Vanted. Spceial Terms to College Stmlcnts. H. M. POLLOCK, FRANK G. YOUNG, Secretary. President A Fine line of Ready- made Clothing and Gent's Furnishing Goods. FINE CUSTOM \VORK A SPECIALTY. I .,

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. con1e into J-Iis pre .;ence, but by seeking I-Iim in their nwn h ~. trt s and lives. Christianity lost a shrine. It gained a nobler \Vorship and a new spiritual po\ver. GEORGE BRIGGS LYNES. VAtEDICTORY ADDRESS. The \vord valedictory vibrates alike \vith · the tenderness of pathos and the courage of hope. Vale! vale! frorn Roman lip n1eant not only farewell. It had an older and ?eeper significance : Be strong and prosper 1~1 thy strength. 1.\!Iy present office, the tntn~led voices of the past and the future, are bnng- ing both meanings to our hearts this morn- lng. JV[r. Pres£dc11t :-To you \Ve n1ust conl- municate words of greeting and parting altnost in the san1c sentence. Your ability and character, your \Vorthy record in your forn1er field of \vork, your unceasing loyalty to our con1n1on Altna Mater, are the etninent qualifications which you bring to tJ1e great \vork lying before you. The future ts full of promise. vV c bid you God Speed ! Ge;ztleJlll!ll of tiLt Board o_f Trustees :-'vVe desire to express our appreciation of your \vise rnanagernent of this colleg·e and your faithful devotion to her interests. ~V e have kno\vn at tnost fe\v details of your labors. But we cannot forget that under your control the life and gro\vth ·of the college have been protnoted. 'To the n1en who leave the ~ails of Old Union to-day, you have been sdent benefactors. vVith feelings of gratitude, they bid you farewell. Gcutlt1JZeJz of tiLl' F acuity :- I cannot for- bear in passing, an especial tribut~ to the eldest of your n u n1 bcr. Doctor Whttehor~e, our venerable ex-Dean, long entrusted w1th so many of the affairs of the college, \~e feel tc)\vards you senti rnents that \vords are Inade- quate to express. The long yea:s \vhich you have spent in the cause of learning, the un- swerving rectitude of your character, and the aenuine kindness of your heart, de,mand a higher recognition than our offerings of praise -offerings all too feeble to express the affec- tion \vith which \Ve shall ahvays regard you. Dean Ripton, \Ve \vho have kno\vn you chiefly in your capacity o~ teacher_have recog- nized your scholarly atta1nn1cnts 111 ~o ma~1y lines of research, your clear and 1n1partial judgment, and your abounding love for our Aima Mater. You have our heartiest \vishes for your success in the administration of your ne\v office. To the Gentlernen of the Faculty, the men1bers of the graduating class owe a large debt of gratitude for faithful. instruction_ dur- ing the past four years. Wtth you our In tel- lectual companionship has beet: most intiln~te. You have not been content simply to gutde us to the learning that is contained in b~oks. You have inspired in us a \vorthy enthus1astn for study, an interest in the great \Vorld of thought, a tonging for the broader, deeper, and more spiritual fife. In your \vork Y.ou have united the skiH of the professional In- structor to the courtesy of the gentlemen and the culture of the scholar. Such powers as we have for usefulness in this world have re- ceived their most important training at your hands. In all future praiseworthy achieve- tnents of ours you will be entitled to a gener- ous share. Gentlernen of the J-i'aculty \Ve bid you farewell. Gclltle11ten of tlte Class of I894- :-Of all the ties that have been formed during our course, the ties that unite us as classmates are closest. We have felt the satne tide of subtle influences which go to make up college life. We have gradually gained that kinship of heart and tnind which unites those who \Vork long to- rrether for a worthy end. In the case of most ~f us the period of preparation for life's. great duties is cotnpleted. In the future lte the toil of conflict, its ·weariness and pain-and its triumph! For, believe me, \Ve should not listen to the carping voices that are ahvays prophesying failure to a young tnan's hopeful enthusiasm. l.Jet us remen1 ber rather the spirit of our tnotto: Plan wisely; v~nture nobly. Striving honestly after our htghest ideals, no real failure can overtake us. For if our own hearts do not condetnn us, \iVC need no absolution from any earthly power. Cotnrades of the Graduating Class, class- nlates, vale ! Be strong. Farewell ! Prosl?er in your strength. Good bye ! God be wtth you. GEORGE BRIGGS LYNES. Students be on the lookout for n1en for '98 during the sumtner vacation, and through your personal efforts let us enter next term the laraest class in years. It can be done b d . and you are the ones to o It.

\ • THE 'C'ONCORDIENSIS. 5 FIRST JUNIOR ORA.fi:O'N. stand out pron1inently a noble hun1an per- sonality. The Poss:ibiHties of Life:. The true work of n 1 an ~is God-like. It is When a voyager sets out upon his travc[s, creative. Out of confusion he should bring he not on:ly bethinks hin1self of all the per- o:~der, out of darkness light. But, to achieve sonal kno\vledge he has of the per its, pleasures, the best re:ults possible, he should so invest and advantages, of the trip he is about to the capital, with which he is primarily en-- take, but he avails hin1self of aU the info.rmia- · dowed, that it shall hring to hin1 the largest tion he can obtain frorn those who have ·. per cent of interest aHowable. \To hin1 that preceeded him ; as; frorn the knowliedge so • hath shall be given;'' !but it is not the n1iser gained, he hopes to escape the whidpools : who subsists longest, and best, on his hoard. that have engulfed n1any a stronger cratt fhan : The nonnal use of every one of the Ltc1dties his, or the rocks about ·whose hidden cFests augn1ents and refreshes it. flo tts the debris that speaks of ship-wreck. , 'fo obtain the best results, it is necessary So, I, to-day, standing near the bot:der Hne · that each ind·ividual, concentrate regularly th Lt divides the shore of a protected Hfe fron1 , and dosely, his energy upon one given sub- t'1e tempest tossed sea of self support, and .. ject. The diversity of talent, that opens self n1aking, look out to the far line, where • widely n1any roads to the one man, is no the Harbor-light glows dimly., and ask of rny : tnore to be taken as an assurance of his ulti- own inner consciousness, and of the know- .~ ~mate success, than, that the one talent of ledge of the fate of those who have gone be- · another leading through a narro-w byway fore : What are the possibilities of life? . presages ·ultimate defeat. The possibilities The pessimist's view of life ·is a cl:ear and ·· of life open \vays so vastly divergent, that the concise one. l-Ie is satisfied that no one is • n1an vvith the one talent, who rightfully uses happy or can be so. T'he dead-:lock to , it is rnore sure of reaching the desired end 'vhich his pessin1is1n brings us is, that life is · triumphantly, than the other, \vho wastefully an evil; and that there are no possibilities squanders his many gifts by trying to cover for good in it. The optin1ist on the contrary . too many fields. believes that \all things \Vork together for • Reason declares that human life i'3 to be good,\ carrying the truth of tl1at assertion, regarded as an arena for the fulfillment of without its modifying clause, into the fields duty. Whatever n1ay be n1an's lot, life, of debauchery. while obedient to duty, has a dignity and a Behveen the t\vo, there is a tnean that ap- \vorth, that cannot be over estitnated ; and peals to the mind that realizes that hurnan the possibilities open to such a life, leave it, life is a thing of solemn itnportance, and that never without;. a full meaning; never vvithout it is of the utmost matter ho\v vve Hve it. an adequate ain1 ; never without utility, never Lived in one way, it is an ugly failure; :lived deprived of a sphere of meritorious action. in an another it is a beautiful success. There should be son1e supreme, sotne uni- Man enters existence upon the plane of versal, some attainable end to strive for, necessity. l-Ie enters into an endo\vrnent whose beauty shall outshine passion, and hereditarily derived. He is made the incH- \Vithstand the dissolving force of reason ; that vidual possessor of a certain atnount of nerv- shall be ever luring- us onward like a steady ous force. He stands pre-etninen t iin the pilot star, and forever urging us onward like created \Vorld, through a peculiar power a favorable wind. This with the supretne known as Will. It is not true that \'all men importance of doing the day's imn1ediatc are born equal.\ They are not born equal duty, in hearty sympathy with those atnong in vital energy, or nervous power, or \:vill \vhom our lot is cast will so arouse and force; and it is thes.e that ~if:ferentiate the quicken our best impulses, that, when the possibilities of life for each individual. Man time has come to furl our sails, and enter the may lawfully extend himself, achieve r~sults, Harbor, \Ve n1ay feel that we have garnered obtain development, upon the lowest plane, the best things offered by the Possibilities necessity; or his soul may soon begin to of Life. throb with ~higher desires, and more expan- CLARK:~: \VINSLO\V CRANNELL. sive aims. He n1ay, in other 'vords, ren1ain a two-legged animal without feathers, or Union owned the town con1mencetnent week

6 THE CONCORDIENSlS. _:..::_-__:-_--=._- __ __ -::-::_ __ - -=-==-=--:=:._=-=- --==- -====--=--=--===========================::::=::===:::::=::::::::=:~ ~c:ol\lf}\;fJ~\'N·c· Vl\fJl'N. JT 1 1 ' . ' 1ll. . l : :J . ' . J\'-1ill . ~ ' . 0 DR. !RAYMOND'S iiNAUHUR.J\liON. Detailed Account ot· the Events -of Commencement · Week. SUNOAY. The Bac~a1aui1eate Sei'nlon. The Rev. Dr. I-I en ry M. Booth, pre...;ident ofthe Auburn Theological serninary, preached the Baccalaureate serrnon itt the I;'irst Pres- byterian church on Sund:1y evening. Dr. Booth took his text frotn the n~inth verse of the second chapter of St. lVIatthew: ''And ln, . the star, wli1ich they s.t w in the East, went before thetn, till it catnc and stood over where the young Child was.'' :MONDAY. Jl'feeting· of Centennial Con.:ttnittee. The meeting of the Centennia:t Con1n1ittee took place in \tV ashburn I I aH at two o'clock Monday afternoon, and was caHed to order by Dr. Rayn1ond, the ch3.irman. Afterwards the tninutes of the last meeting were read by Chester I-Iolcon1b, Secretary, and adopted. Col. Sprague then subtnitted· the Treasurer's report, and Judge Landon reported as chair- man of the· cntnmittee on Cornmen1orative Exercises. Centennial Anniv{lrsary. rfhe prospective progratnn1e is as follows : SuJZday.-Rev. Georg-e Alexander to preach the honorary sern1on outlining- the religious past of Union. Baccalaurc~te sermon. 111\onday.-Symposi un1. Addresses to con- sider how n1uch a college education stands for. Tuesday.-Thc progran1me \Vas left to the cotnmittec. The schen1c talked of is as fol- lows : 1. A 1 urn n i tneeti ng ; 2. Trustee elec- tion ; 3· Alun1ni dinner; 4· Meetings of classes and societies ; 5· R.eccption at 4 P. M ; 6 . .E~1.,Cltillg-.-Addresses of ten to fifteen nlin- utes to be delivered by the alumni. Also ::.1 poem. lVed;usJaJ'.-Addrcss on Union in the ant1y; Union in religion; Union in educa- tion; Union in politics; Union at the bench atld bar; Union in the various \Valks of life. S. 1(. Wi:'l Hatns, and on Finance by Col. Sprague, th•e rneeting adjoll rn~d. Ivy ExcrciHes. On l\1oH clay afternoon occurred the Ivy exercises l.H!der the old elrn in Capt. Jackson's garden. A large crowd lLtd gathered when the Sc11ior cl:~ss tnarched in at three o'clock singing-c:lass son~-s and giv.ing their class ydl. 1'he Ivy oca ti.on w ,ts on1i ttet.l on account of . the absence of l'vir. Anch:unpaugh, and 1\.1r. , S. 'f. B.r(u<rll:ft, of SdH.?nect;Jdy, reaJ the Ivy poern fnr Mr. I Iow.trJ, who was ob'liged to be away. T'hc pocn1 was very wetl writt<hl, and sho\ved th:tt the author h.ts ability in that direoUo:Fl. \Vhi.J:e this wa<-; being rea.d the class had 'l·ighted their pip~s. Joseph Nc\vton \V h·ite, of ,\ n1sterdan1, then deli vcred · the I)ipe onttion. .lVIr. White deserves special n1ention, not only for the subject n1~1tter of his speech, but also for the excellence of its delivery. At its conclusion he won rounds of 1nerited a ppLtusc. lntcrsperced with the other exercises Gioscicl and his orchestra of fourteen pieces rendered several excellent selections. Following this the class adjourned to the lV1emorial Hall \vhere the Ivy was planted. Tl1e Prize Spealdng. Monday evening, at the Presbyterian church, occurred tl1e Junior and Sophon1ore prize ~peakit~g, and the contest in exten1poraneous speaking for the R. C. Alexander prize. Gioscia, of Albany, furnished the tnusic, and by the tin1·c the overture \vas ended every seat \Vas tak:en and standing roon1 was above par. The church \Vas very \Varn1, but the oratory seemed to interest the audience so much that they forgot all about the heat. Professor Cole presided over. the exercises assisted by Instructor Burke. The first Sopho1nore speaker of the even- ing \vas vVilliam H. Hall, of Kalan1azoo, Mich. I-f e took for his subject, \The Relief of the Poor,\ and portrayed very vividly the condition of the pauper classes in our large cities. Mr. f-I all offered a few solutions for the question, dwelling n1ostly upon that of the \college settlement.\ It was sug·gestcd that a paper should be prepared on Dr. N ott and also on Dr. Tayler Levvis. After the report of the comn1ittees on the Centennial Endowment Fund by Hon. I-lo\vard Mallery, of Middleburgh, N. Y., was the next speaker. Mr. Mallery took for his subject, \International Arbitration;\ and ch()osing the old maxim, \The Pen is Mightr~r tltan the S\vord,'' showed where the fonner had triumphed over the latter. The

THE CONCORDIENS[S. 7 speaker made a very graceful appearance on the stage, sp~aking 'vith great freeness. The last Sophon1o.re speaker \vas Dann [ •. 'vVood, of lVIansfield, N. Y., and his .subject \vas, \The Duties of a Citizen.\ The speaker clain1ed the paramount nuty of a citizen was the right use of the haHot, and showed ·where this had been proven. At this point Professor Cole announced that the special subject for the Alexander prize \vas, \Resolved That it is for the best i 1terest of the United States that the Sand- . I wich Isld.nds be annexed.\ The gcncFal sub- ject for this extern poraneous .contest was ··The Increase of the l)omain of the United St . .ttes.'' W.iHiarn Allen, .of Clyde, N.Y., was the first Junior orator. In treating llis subject, '' Patriotism and Pol:itics,\ l\tlr. Allen held the closest attention of the aud iencc. By the rnanner in which he c.onducted hin1self on the stage ai1d his earnestness of tone, the speaker showed that he was an orator, indeed. 'fhe next speaker was Theodore F. Bayles, of \Vest Kortright, who had for his subject, \ The An1erican Scholar.\ He pictured very forcibly the ideal scholar and by his free manner won ·great applause. \Better City Govcrnrnent\ \vas the sub- ject of the oration of A. S. Cox, of Schenec- tady. Mr. Cox in his oration com pared the politic~l conditions of our cities \vith those of England and found that they excelled us in nearly every respect. The production \vas very well prepared, and \Vas received \Vell by the audience. The last Junior speaker \vas Clarke Wins- lovv Crannell, of Albany, and his subject \vas, \ The Possibilities of Life.\ The oration was excellently prepared, and showed a great amount of \Vork. In his delivery, Mr. Cran- nell, by his personal appearance, graceful gestures and excellent declatnation, captured the audience, and \Vas cheered loudly upon conclusion. Fallowing this came the contest for the Alexander prize of $50 in gold. There were eight contestants ; A. S. Cox, '95 ; 1{. H. Potter, '95 ; T. F. Bayles, '95 ; \V. E. Bullard, '97; H. M. Pollock, '95 ; Doug- las Campbell, '94; R. D. Fuller, '97; J. Wood, '96. All the contestants did exceedingly well ; and all took the affirmative side with the ex- ception of two. Ev€rybody seemed to be well acquainted \vith the subject ; and n1any good argutnents were brought up in favor .of anncx<ttion. \V. E. Bullard, '97, \vho won the prize fu:tly deserved it, for h. is address was exoelilent. ~Ie spoke with great ease, al- though extetn poraneously, and sho\.ved hirnseilf to be a:n orator in every sense of the wonL R. 1-l. Potter, '95, was a warded an honorable n1en tion. Douglas Can1pbell, '94, also de- serves special n1ention fnr the 1nanner illl which he cte:livercd his address. Tl . . 1 f lC pnze connntttce \vas con1posc 1 o \Vi1,lis ·r. 14.anson, chairnLtn ; 0. S. LufL11an, J as. B. A lcxander. TUESDAY. Phi Beta Kappa and Sigm.a Xi. J\. n1eeting of the Phi Beta l{etpp::t society was !held in the \Vashburn building Tuesday n1orning, at which time officers were elected for the ensuing year. President, Dr. \Vhite- hornc; Rec. Sec., John C. Van Voast; Cor. Sec., II. G. Glen; Treas., Robt. J. Landon. A con1tnittee ·was appointed to confer with the Centennial con1mittee to try to arrange for a part of a day during the exercises in 'vhicb. to present a literary program. No honorary members were elected, but C. 1\ti. Matsori, '71, \vas initiated. At a meeting in the first part of June, keys \Vere granted to G. B. Lynes, Harris Cooke, -Arthur Doig and DougJ:as ,Can1pbell, all of the class of '94. The S,igtna Xi society held a tneeting- in the engineering rootn at 9:30 A. M. W. L. Lawton, Nathan Beck\vith and Richard Van Beusekom, Jr., of the class of '94, \vcre initiated. Prof. Landreth, Prof. l(ilpatrick and E. J. Wheeler ·were elected to memtber- ship. Officers were elected for two years as fol- lo\vs : President, Prof. Perkins; Vice-presi- dent, }>rof. Pepper; Recording Sec., Frank Cooper ; Corresponding Sec., I-L P. Curll- mings ; Treas., Prof. Stoller. At a meeting held a short time ago, the Union chapter voted favorably upon the esta b- lishment of a chapter at Yale this fall. Ahunni Meeting. At 10:45 Tuesday morning Dr. A. V. V. Rayrnond, president of the general alutnni association, called the alu n1 n i rneeting to order in the chapeL Prayer \vas offered by Rev. Jacob L. Perse. Then followed the regular business of the association. After the reading of the tninutes of the last tneet- ing, a nominating cornrnittee vvas appointed

8 THE CO!NCORDIENSIS. consisting of Chester Holcomb, Rev. L. W. Beattie and Richard AnabLe. At this point Dr. Rayrnond was caHed to attend a rneeting of the board of trustees, and Gen. Daniel ! Butterfield vvas elected chainnan. At the call for the reports of corn mit tees, Dr. Wells, cha irn1an of the alLHnn i' banquet comn1ittee, . reported that arrangen~ents had been n1ade · Chas. E. Sprague; '60; EHsha Curtis, '64. It ·was decided that only those \vho are grad- uates of Union of three years standing, are ,eligible to vote for trustee. The balloting lasted for nearly an hour and t~esulted in the election of Col. Sprague. Alumni Banquet. for one of the finest dinners the alurnni had · On Tuesday noon, in Memorial hall, were ever partaken of. I'ihis atlnounce!ment \Vas spread five long tables extending east and greeted with great applause. A few words · west, and one shorter one across the cast end frotn the Trea.surer showed the associat:ion : of the hall. The tables were decorated with to be ,in good condition financially. Then ; ;palrns, evergreens and roses. Pilates \vere laid came the report of the Centennial cotntniUee. for two hundred guests. At the Lniddle table The Secretary of the con1n1ittee reported · were seated the graduabing class, the faculty that they had the n1atter of the celebration · and the trustees ; the hvo tables at each side well in hand. 'The progran1 was aln1ost made \vere filled with alumni, while the shorter out, except that all of the speakers had not tabl!e was the post of honor, and there sat been secured. The exercises will be opened · Hon. An1asa J. Parker, Hon. Joseph M. Carey, by a sennon, Sunday morning, by Dr. Geo. · Gen. Daniel Butterfield and ex-Gov. Rice. Alexander. Monday there \vill be a sympo- Just before the l-Ion. Mr. Parker called the sium of three sessions. The speakers for assembly to order to listen to the toasts the this occasion have 1~ ot yet been chosen, but alun1ni showed with what ~ove they cherished the topics \vill be a:]ong educational lines. · the memory of their professor, by the rounds Tuesday \vill be alun1 ni day as usual. In tl1e of applause \Vith \vhich they greeted the tnorn ing the altunni n1eeting, in the afternoon entrance of Dr. John Foster. a reception \Vith an address and poem. , Toasts were responded to by Senator Carey, Wednesday will be given up to addresses, and Gen. Butterfield, \vho read telegrams frotn and Thursday to the regular graduating Gov. W m. McKinley and Chauncey M. exercises. Gen. Butterfield then called on Depew, stating they \vould be at Union dur- the 1'reasurer of the con1n1ittee, Col. Sprague, in()\ the fall tern1 to deliver their lectures in \ of the class of I 776,\ to n1ake a few th~ Butterfield course. Prof. Sidney G. Ash- ren1arks. Col. Sprague said that this celebra- more responded in behalf of the faculty. Mr. tion would represent all departn1ents of the Van Deusen spoke on \Athletics.\ As soon University; that it rtecessarily \vould entail as Mr. Van Deusen had taken his seat, C. W. great expense, and each alutnnus was called Field, '93, announced that the class of '93 upon to contribute. The average atnount pledged $25 for ·athletics. G. B .. Lynes, '94, needed fron1 each \vould be twelve dollars. then spoke for the undergraduates. He was Col. Sprague established an office in the followed. by the call of decennial classes. \ T'rophy H .. oom '' for the reception of funds. Gov. Rice spoke for '44, Dr. N ott for '54, Dr. Next came the election of officers for the D. M. Stin1pson for '64, Hon. Tracy Becker ensuing year. The nominating comtnittee for '74, and Dow B~ekman for '84. Isaac reporte-d as follows: President, Hon. Amasa Pt=!ndleton, '54, of Sioux City, Iowa, paid a ]. Parker; Vice-President, Rev. Chas. D. fe\v \Vords of tribute to Dr. Eliphalet Nott. Nott, D. D.; I{ec. Sec., vV. T. Clute; Cor. 1'he caterer was A. L. Owens of Utica. He Sec., Alex. §. Thotnson ; Treas., I-Iern1an B. gave the greatest of satisfaction, and furnish- Myndersc. l~xecuti,ve con1mittee, W. II. • ed a tnost excellent dinner. Me Elroy, '6o; E. P. White, 'So ; Nelson Mil- lard, '53 ; J arnes Hea.tly, '79; A. P. Strong, '6-t. 'fhe -Secretary \Vas instructed to cast · one ballot for these officers. In the absence of Mr. Parker, Dr. Nott was called to the chair and nominations \Vere tnade for the election of one trustee. The nominations were : Dow Beekman, '84 ; Col. Class Day l~xei•cises. Owing to the inaugural ceren1onies, class day ·was observed this year 011, Tuesday after- noon instead of evening as' usual. On the staae \verc seated the officers of the class ; ..'::> the hou~;e was well filled. Following is the very interesting program : ' \ I l, '

' ; ' ' f THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 MUSIC. President's Address,G. Briggs Lynes, Middleburgh. Oration, John Val.il Schaic:k, Jr., Cobleskill. ::oi1USIC. Poen1, Wm .. J. Van Auken, :Schenectady. History, Raymond A. Lartsiqg, Lisha's Kill. MUSIC. Address, Richard Van Beusekom, Jr., 1\icKnows- ville office, the cap and gown. Judge Landon then proclaimed hirn President of Union Col- lege and presented him to the President of ·. the Board of Trustees. Mr. BrowneU wei- . con1ed him with a few well chosen words. The inaugural address delivered by Dr. Raymond was a n1ost scholarly and interest- ing effort. As the address will be preserved Music. in pa:mphlet forn1 \Ve give only the following Prophecy, G. Vrooman Smith, 'l'ioga, Penn. h t ·b t t s .or. a s rae : TI'te Inaugu.I•ation. After responding to the welcome \Vhich had The event around which centered the most been extended fro.m Trustees, Alun1ni and interest both of students and alutnni, was tl1e friends the President spoke in part as follows: inauguration of Dr. A. V. V. Raytnond as THE.Mrssw~ oF THE AMERICAN coLLEGE. President of the colleg-e. And if one may 0£ the value of collegiate education in general I judge by the great cro\vds gathered on shall not speak at length. The worth of broad know- u · 1 b c · ledge, of trained powers of thought, of cultured ·· · nton street ong • e1ore the church gates sympathies and refi.ned.sensibilitiesneedsnoetnphasis \vere opened, the people of Schenectady \ver.e . in this presence. The first mission of the college is also greatly interested. to develop life-life., which is more than meat; to The students, the alunlni and their families unfold those powers and capacities which clothe men with dignity and honor. Education is the leading out were adrnitted first through the chapel, and of life £,rom narrower limits to wider horizons, bring- occupied the body of the l1ouse. The central ing within the range of appreciation a larger world chair of the platform was occup·ied byT Silas filled with higher and more enduring ministries. The great end of llfe is its own increase, more life, B. Bt~ownell, L .. L. D., president of the Board abundant life. The educated man inherits this of Trustees. At his right sat Dr. Rayn1ond promise of life itself and is blessed with keener vision, and at his left Hon. J. S. Landon. On one with broader sympathies, with deeper experiences. The col~ege is his emancipator. This liberty of life side of the stage was the faculty and on the is the birthright of humanity. When Channing said, other the Trustees. Other rnen of note on '·He is to be educated because he is a man and not h 1 ,c H A J p k . because he is to make shoes, and nails, and pins\ he t e P abonn were : · on. tnasa · ar ~er, gave forcible expression to the underlying principles ex-Gov. Rice, l-Ion. Pliny T. Sexton, Con1p- of all educational work. Its value is not to be esti- troller James A. Roberts, President Taylor of mated by the standards of gross utilitarianis1n but by Vassar colleQ\e Mayor Jacob W. Clute, Rev. its influence upon man himself. Because the life is n more than meat, its own ex.pension and enrichment A. C. Sewall, Rev. A. l{usscH Stevenson and are the supreme good, Without the thought of this Douglas Campbell, '94-. representing the reflex influence of quickened intelligence, this ennob- students. ling of man as man, there can be no appredation of the priceless value of what is called significant! y \ a Prayer was offered by Dr. G.eo. Alexander, liberal education.\ This alone can justify and it does then followed the addresses of welcotne. justify abundantly those studies whose results are not Fronl the Trustees, Silas 13. Brownell ; frotn so much broader knowledge as the refinement of life, and whose value therefore a materialistie age ~ver the Undergraduates, Douglas Campbell; from calls into question. The weights and measures of the Faculty, Dr. I-Ienry Whitehorne ; from com1nerce have no spiritual adjustn1ents; and life is the Alumni, Hon. An 1 asa J. Parker ; fron 1 the spirit. Too delicate -for sensuous appeal are the in- fluences of science and literature and a1·t upon the Board of H .. egents, l-Ion. Pliny T. Sexton; soul, establishing communion with the world of from the State of Nevv York, Co~:nptroller unseen and infinite truth, but the great encl of life is J A R b t f tl C't f S h communion with this eternal world. atnes · 0 er s ; rom lC · 1 Y 0 c en- The first mission of the college is therefore to de- ectady, Mayor Jacob W. Clute; fron1 the velop individual life; to unfold in n1an all that is College Presidents of the State, President essentially worthy; and to this end the college n1ust T 1 · f V offer to young manhood an1 bitious to make the most · ay or 0 assar. of life, the 1ninistry o£ the best thoughts, the noblest The Investiture of the President was taken ideals, the purest sentiments, the most cultured charge of by l-Ion. Judson S. Landon and was sympathies. most in1pressive. After appropriate ren 1 arks But beyond this sphere of individual gain lies the realn1 of public interests; and ~o beyond the imtnedi- he invested the President with the insignia of ate influence of collegiate education in general lies his office ; first, a copy of the charter of the the special mission, as we regard it, of the American college; second, the formal title of l'residen t ; College; and to this we now give particular attention. If the American College has any distinctive 1nission third, the keys of the college. He was then it is determined by the conditions and ain~s of our clothed in the gannents appropriate to his national life, for the college must ever be the servant

IO THE CONCORDIENSIS. of the state. This is indeed fundamental to a true conception of its broader work. It is not '1.11 inde- pendent institution existing for its own sake nor :£or the sake of science or of culture in the abstract, but an integral part of tlw nation identified with its inter- ests and charged with its welfare. The distinctive mission of A1nerica among nations is universally recognized. Our importance is not determined by our vast territory. our \vealth, our n1ihtary strength, but by our civil and social institu- tions and life. To us as to no other nation has been given the opportunity and the privilege of .. working out the problen1 of popular government upon the basis of equal individual rights, a problem theoreti- cally sin1ple but practically found to be increasingly complicated. Above all things else this is the n1ission of America, the suprerne end to \:Vhich all our ener- gles must be directed; for the problem is tlot yet solved. Either because of a mistaken policy in the past by which the n1ost diverse elements have been admitted into our national life, or because our funda- nlental error in tl:te theory of popular government, we are now face to face with iniiuences which lnake the practicability of self government still an open question. I use the term government in its broadest sense as including all the forces that tend to the peace, prosperity and general good of society. The highest conception of the state involves not only the stability of the administrative povver, but the laws, institutions, and life of the commonwealth; so that the question 1 cfore us is not sin1ply the permanency of a political systcrn but the bene.ficence of that system judged by the standard of the greatest good to the greatest number. · Now the first condition of good governn1ent is the auility and character uf the governing class. In popular government the governing class is the numerical n1ajority of the citizens. Whatever arbi- trary power 1nay be assumed and exercised for a time by individuals and factions, ultimately the people assert their authority and the rule of the n1ajority is not only theory but the fundamental fact of our national life. This at least, has been established by our history of n1ore than a hundred years, anclit inc1i- cates the direction and ai1n of the service which the college is to render the state. The college exists for the development of good citizens. This I consider to be its highest duty, a duty v;;hich either lin1its or enlarges 1ts sphere according to the point of view. The limitation is indicated by the exclusion of purely professional studies anc1 of independent investigation-s carried on in the interests of science as such, which belong to technical schools ancl the university rightly conceived. rrhe enlargelnent of its sphere appears in a just estimate of the duties and responsibilities of citizenship which it n1ust subserve directly. Great popular 1nove1nents although accon1panied by violence and followed by \vide spread disaster generally bring to the surface son1e bidden truth, some divine idea buried deep in hu1nan consciousness, just as the convulsions of nature throw up buried treasure. The French Revolution of a century ago thus disclosed a sublime principle which found ex- pression in the term '' citizen \ which for the time took precedence of every title of rank and of scholar- ~hip. It \vas the one designation of superior \vorth. \Vith all the misconception of its meaning, all the injustice and crime to which it led, it represented essential truth. It em bodied a divine idea destined to control the development of later civilization. Just as the barbarism which over-ran Europe from the North, destructive, devastating in its progress nevertheless introduced the principle of independence, ot indi- vidual liberty which while lost for a tin1e carne forth at last in the mighty -vvork of the Refo,rmation; so this principle of citizenship introduced by the French Revolution is now appearing in the new reorganiza- tion of society, the new Reformation whose beginning marks the close of the 19th Century; for the essential truth of citizenship is not individual liberty, although it is based upon that, but responsibility. The very tenn indicates identification wHh other and broader interests than those of the individual. The citizen is a member of the con1monwealth; his individuality is in a sense merged into the life of the com1nunity, and just because the life of the con1muni ty is of more itnportance than the life of the individual, his identi- fication with that larger life is of greater dignity and honor than his personal excellence. It is this that exalts the title citizen above any title designed to ex- press individual greatness. This finds its highest and con1plete illustratic:tl in the tenn which the divine n1an constantly applied to hi·lnsetf-'' The Son Of l\1an, \-thus identifying himself with all humanity, linking his life with the life of th:e world which he came to redeem. Others 1night call him Rabbi., King, Lord. He was all that these terms implied but he called himself the Son of lVIan, the brother of every Inan. His union with hutnanity ·was his great glory, but it was the glory of self sacrifice. The growth of the race into his likeness is marked by the en1phasis which it puts upon the vita: relations between man and man, the n1erging.of the individual into the life of the community and of the wodd, the principle embodied in citizenship; and so the great work of the future ushering in the higher civilization of the 2oth Century is the developm:ent of the spirit of citizenship, the 111aking of citizens; and this is, or is to be, pre- eminently the work of the American College. Insti- tutions of higher education have al vrays lccl the world's thought and inspired reforms. No great advance has ever been made that has not been directed virtually by the schools. To-day the univer- sities are the dread' of the Russian Czar and the hope of the German liberals. The story of progress in our land cannot be told without such repea~ ed reference to college graduates as makes theu leadership the rule rather than the exception. Ali history mak,..s it ineqitable that the An1erican College should mold the new American civilization, and this certainly is only en1phasized and increased by the fact that each vear the An1erican College is becoming tnore manifestly a popular institution. It is within bounds to say that the next t\venty-iive years will make a collegiate training the ai1n of o11r 111ost self respecting and honorably ambitious L 'YS. All this only shows the growing importance of the college to American life and n1agnifies the Wvl k of the college in the develop- lllent of a truer citizenship m:J.d so a nobler individual and national life. It remains for us now to indicate some of the specific lines of influence which the college 1nust fol- low in its mission to American citizens. I shall not speak of the educational work which all recognize as essential. The college n1ust promote scholarship and inspire in te~lectual ideas or it ~fails conspicuously. Beyond th1s, hovi·ever, I would emphasise the influence of its own spirit and life. I. The college itself must be intensely and pre- em~n.ently .d~mo~ratic, the persistent enemy of all fictltwus d1st1ncbons between man and man. This I think has been its glory in the past. But such virtue is not kept without struggle, and no 1nore serious duty faces college officials than the conservation of \ ' 'I l I ' .. f. I '\:; 'I I 1

'I l I ' .. f. I '\:; 'I I 1 THE CONC:ORDIENSlS. I I this spirit, in view of the rapid growth in our land of · a contrary spirit whose inHuence is felt already in the college world to the loss of simplicity of life and inde- pendentjudgm:ent. The very subtlety of this foe to manly dignity makes its resistence the n1ore difficult. It cannot be n1et by the show or even the e~ercise of authori~y, but only by unceasing disregard of all the pretenstons of wealth. Young 1Tl!en are quick to honor fairness, quick to respond to the worthiest con- ceptions of life. Nowhere else are the conditions so favorable for fostering the spirit of brotherhood, and so nowhere is the duty so imperative as in the college · world charged with the responsibility of deve}oping American citizens. · 2. Closely allied with this spirit of democrac5r, as £unclan1ental to n1anly character, is the sense of honor \\'hich indicates a further duty to the Am,erican Col- lege. The tendency of a n1aterialistic age is toward · the depredation of spiritual qualities. Visible, tangible, sensuous success is the controling a1nbition. ''The sense of honor'' as Addison says, \ is of so fine and delicate a nature that it is only to be ,1net with in n1inds which are naturally noble, or in such as have been cultivated by greatexatnples or a refined education.\ The school of honor is not the market place nor the battle £eld, but the environn1ent of great thoughts and noble characters. It is the pro- duct of reverence, of the spirit of worship as Emerson has taught. '' Honor exists for him who always recognizes the neighborhood of the great, always feels himself in the presence of high causes .. \ The college . as the conservator of honor must teach it as a virtue and insist upon it as a duty not only but quicken it by the steady influence of its own high ideals and exalted life. This suggests the influence not of books so much as of 1n·en, the atmosphere of strong person- ali tv, the touch of noble character. Honor is not a \worcl '' ''a trim reckoning but spirit. The teacher n1ust incarnate it, the life of the institution must illus- trate it. The .college that is to develop the citizen of the future who will say \If I lose mine honor I lost n1yself '' must be instinct with the spirit of truth, disdaining all subterfuge and unreality, persistently honorable in all its relations to the young manhood entrusted to its care. 3· A third essential influence in the American Col- lege is in the direction of a quick sense of obligation. This we have shown is to be the crowning character- istic of future citizenship, the higher law of life detennining the new civilization. The sphere of ser- vice thus indicated calls peculiarly for the inspiration of Christian truth and the presence of the divine life itself; for tnan's strongest citadel is his selfishness and the surrender of self is n1ade only to Hin1 who is Mightier. For this reason the American. College must be definitely Christian, not theologically Christian, but practically Christian, owning allegiance to IHn1 who came that he might •'give life and give it more abundantly,\ and who said, \He that savcth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for n1y sake and the Gospel's shall find it.'' r:l'hc citizenship of the future is expressed in the \vords '' Bear one another's burdens.\ But the Christianity of the col- lege that is to develop Christian citizens must be the Christianity U'Jt of precept or of creed, but of life; the Christianity of helpfulness, of brotherly kindness, of charity. The spirit of an institution is of more far reaching influence than its curriculum. The spirit of the American College 1nust make the knowledge which it con11nunicatcs, the thought which it stitnu- lates, the culture which it fosters 1neans to the great end of service. Thus only \Yill it be true to its own mission as the servant of the state. In. all tha.t I have said I beHeve that I have repre- sented the historic position and influence of Union college which now glories in the ministry of a h unclred years. Born in the early Jays of the Republic. baptized ·with the nativnal spirit, as \vith the national name, her great distinction has been the service of the com:niJ:onwealth. To this she has brought rich treasures of kno\v~ec1ge, the strength of n1anly characte:r and the inspiration of a Christian faith that has known nothing of divisive creeds. That the Union of :the future may repeat the vigorous life. the high aims and the public service of the Union of the past is the prayer, the hope, the confidence of every loyal son. '\VI~DNESDAY. Cotninenceinent. Propitious weather is alvvays a feature of Union's cornrnence1nents and the ninety- seventh conHuencemcnt \vas no exception to the rule. \Vith the reviving of old tin1c prosperity for the college, old tirne custon1s are again renewed and among then1 the tinlc- honored march of President, faculty, students and alu:tnni fron1 'College Hill to the church. A little before 9:30 Wednesday tnorning the forces began to assemble in front of the coUege chapel and, shortly after, the colun1n began to n1ove toward the Blue Gate. A squad of police headed the line followed by the Burgesses Corps of Albany in their fine uniforms and i,mposing n1ilitary dignity, then came the board of trustees, the faculty, the seniors in cap and go\vn, and the undergradu- ates by classes in order of seniority. A goodly body of venerable alun111i con1poscd the rear. A halt \vas called in front of Dr. Rayn1ond's residence and our new president was received into the ranks at the position of honor irnmediately behind the Burgesses. 1'he procession now moved down Union street, the stud cnts singing college songs on the way, to the First Presbyterian church \vhcrc the exercises were held. The con1~11enccn1ent exercises proper began with the singing of the I I 7th Psahn by the whole assen1bly. Prayer was then offered by the l{ev. Chas. D. N ott, D. D., class of '54, and after n1usi.c by Gioscia's orchestra, lJr. H.ayn1ond, presiding, introduced the cotn- nlcn cc1nent orators whose nan1es and su bj ccts of orations \vere as follows : r. ··The Aim of the Ideal Man.\ Nathan Beckwith, Stissing. 2. \The Greatest Thing in the vVorlcL\ Douglas Campbell, Schenectady. -K·3. \A Legal Fetish.\ Harris L. Cooke, New York city. 4· '' The Search for Happiness.\ Arthur K. Doig, Scotia. (Continued on page 13.)

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONC:QRDIENSIS. PL'BLISHED ON ALTERNATE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAH, BY 'fH:E STUDENTS O:F UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF E'DITORS. AsHLEY ]. BRAMAN, '94, H. L. BAGGERLY, '94, C. w. CRANNELL, '95, I T. M. CAss, '95, ~ - 1-I. F. BRIGGS, 'g6, J w. H. HALL, 96, I A. L. PECKHA,l\1: 9?,. ~ H. B. VANDUZER, 96 I }r1, A. T\YLFORD, 96. J T l!.'R .Jf ... ~': SINt;LE CoPIEs, EnnoR Ii'l CnmF BusiNEss MANAGER AssociATES REPOR'l~ORIAL STAFF $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE - IS CENTS Address all con1munications to THE CoNCORDIENsrs, · Box 213, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. THE GAZETTE PRINT, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. \Ve wish to call the attention of our sub- scribers to the fact that the present number has been enlarged to n1eet the dernands of con1111encement vveek. With this issue, edited by the new board, the XVIlth volume.of TilE CONCORDIENSI~ is cotnpleted. We appreciate the journalistic drill that we have experienced under the able leadership of Messrs. Bran1an and Baggerly, both fron1 an editorial and business stand- point. rfo keep the paper in the foren1ost rank of college journals 've \viii need the hearty co-operation of the stuJent body. It is stated at the head of'3 our cditor.ial column that THE CONCORDIENSIS is publish- ed on alternate Wednesdays during the col- lege year by the students of Union college. If this n1eans anything it n1eans that the paper is the students' paper, not the editors ; and \Ve desire to make it n1ore the paper of the students of the college than it ever has been before. To do this you tn ust n1eet us half way. ' vVe want your contributions- your subscriptions will cotne as a rnatter of course. Every Union n1an subscribes, but few contribute. Another year made men1orable by the many brilliant achievements of the sons of Old Union has been brought to a close. Modesty forbid's that we make n1ore :than n1ere rnemtion of our many victoriP.s on athletic fields. A foot ball pennant carrying with it the chan1pionship of the stat,e league hangs upon the \Valls of the trophy room. ...t\.nother hanner, telling the story of Utlion's prowess oa track and field keeps 'it con1pany. And st.ill a third, wrested from the base ball league corn pletes the set. We prophesy even greater things for the future. We pause for a titne in the busy rush of events that .make up commencement ·week to look back over the year that has just been added to the irrevocable past ; and we are sobered as \Ve rem·en1ber the three whose \Vork here has been accomplished. One who entered \vith us daily in college :eon1petition and endeavor, Harry E. Sprague,. was taken a\vay in the bright protnise of a glorious tnan- hood. We miss his pleasant face and his genial tones, and \Vonder why-but \that way rnadness lies.\ vVe speak his name in reverent tones this comn1encernent \veek. The announcen1ent of the death of Mrs. Hoffman, wife of Professor Hoffrnan, canle to grieve us later, and last we clasped hands in silent sympathy with I)rofessor Truax, when we learned of little l,owell Truax, that \God's fint;er touched him and he slept.\ During the surnmer rnonths, \vhen the days are of supernal beauty, of ineffable sweetness, of perfect rest, vvhat better thing can you do than to prepare short breezy articles for THE CoNCORDIENSIS. Song sparrows, orioles, blue-birds, thrushes and robins \vill \Vake you in the morning. L,ater you \vill wend your way through the sup· -rb Tcn1ple of the Land- scape, where nlead,,ws ·of daisy and clover and buttercups and waving grass are the pa vern en ts, the cl m branches are the arches, the hills are the \valls, and tl1e stainless blue of the sky is the roof; and you vvill 1ie beneath the cool shadows of son1c n1aplc tree that stands beside a little brook whose waters murn111r lazily as they glide a\vay, and taking out your pad and pen you \vill write glowing bits of prose or verse or song; and vvhcn September con1es again you \vill walk into our sanctum and b11ry us beneath a pile of manuscript, thus tnaking our path easy and our heart light, paradoxical as it n1ay seem.

THE CON'C:ORDIENSIS. I3 (Continued from page ll.) MUSIC. 5· \Philosophy the True Basis of Theology.'' En1met Sloat, Scotchtow1J1. *6. '' The Tax on Inheritances.\ Charles R. Sn1ith, Tioga, Pentl. · 7. '' The Need of a Modern Beowulf.\ Richard Van Beusekom~, Jr., McKovvnville. 8. \The Crusades and Modern Civilization.\ · George B. Lynes, Mi:ddleburgk . THESES IN ENGINEERING. ·X· r. ~~ A Discussion of Results of the Recent · Governn1e11t Timber Tests.'!' Charles E .. Gregory, Bangatt · *2. \Tests of Asphalt.'' Walter L. Lawton, Glens :r~al1s. Starred orations were excused. After tnusic by the orchestra, President Raymond with a few appropriate words intro- duced the Honorary ChanceHor, Hon. Joseph M. Carey, '67, United States Senator from Wyon1ing. Senator Carey's address \\vas sound and very interesting. 'The degree of Bachelor of Arts was con- ferred upon Edwin L. Auchan1paugh, Hiland L. Baggerly, Nathan Beckwith, Ashley J. Bran1an, Sidney T. Braman, Douglas Canlp- bell, I-Iarris L. Cooke, Arthur K. Doig, I--Iarnilton E. Furman, Robert F. Gilmour, Raytnond A. Lansing, George B. Lynes, Leonard McClintock, En11net Sloat, Charles H .. Smith, George V. Smith, vVillian1 J. Van Au ken, Richard J. Van Beusekom, Jr., J oln1 Van Schaick, Jr., and Joseph N. White. The degree of Civil Engineer \vas conferred upon Charles E. Gregory, Walter L. Lawton, Guy I-I. Miller and Justin 0. Reynolds. The n1osf important feature at a corm- tnencetnent of Union college is the singing of the \Song to Old Union,\ and on this occasion there was no lack of the old tin1e ardor among the alun1ni and students. With John I{ eyes Paige at the organ and Gioscia' s orchestra to lead the singing of the enthusi · 2.stic rnultitude, the venerable old church edifice fairly trernblcd to the strains of \ O~d Union.\ After everyone had sung hitnself hoarse all were anxious to hear the awarding of prizes. which were given as follows: The Warner Prize, to Geo. B. Lynes; the Inghan1 Prize, to Geo. B. Lynes ; the Allen Prizes, first, to Leonard McClintock ; second, to R. A. Lans- ing ; third, to John Van Schaick, Jr. ; the Clark Essay Prizes to Juniors, first, Horatio lVL Pollock; second, W. A. Johnston; the . ------- -·~- ---- Junior Oratorical Prizes, first,. Clarke Wins- io\v Crannell; second, Willian1 ADen. Sopho- nlore Oratorical Prizes, first, \Vtn. I-I. I-Iall; second, Howard MaUory. The Engineering Prize offered by the class of ''89,. to Chas. E .. Gregory vvith honorable ment,Ion of W. L. Lawton, and the Blatch£ord Oratorical Medals for 'Cotntnencernent Orations, first, 'Geo. B. Lynes; second, Richard Van Beuse- kom, vvith honorable rnention, of Douglas Campbell. The specia:l honors were : Walter L. Law- ton, in Chern~istry ; Geo. B. Lynes, in English ; R. Van Beusekom, Jr., in Ger~man ; Geo. B. Lynes, in Greek, and John VanSchaick, Jr., in Political Science and History. After the ~nvarding of prizes and announce- n1ent of special honors, divit~e benediction \vas invoked and the ninety-seventh con1- n1encement exercises of Old Union were at an end. DegTees Conferre<l. A. B.-Benjamin W. Arnold~ Albany; Hon. John I-Iennesy, Brooklyn. Ph. D.-James R. Truax, '76~ professor in Union college; Alfred E. Phi'lHps, '87, profes- sor in Pardue university ; Wi lHa n1 A. Wad- dell, 1 8 r, professor in San Paulo college, Braz.il. D. D.--Rev. Albert C. Sewall, of Schenec- tady; Rev. Willian1 Durant, Saratoga Springs ; Rev. \Villian1 D. Ma.xon, '78, Pitts- burg, Pa. LL. D.-Hon. Joseph M. Carey, U. S. Senator fron1 Wyon1ing; H on. Rufus W. Peckharn, Judge N. Y. Co11rt of Appeals; General Horace Porter, New Yor1< city. A. l¥1.-Bradley lVfartin, '63 ; Edward Van Vranken, '66; Clark L. McCracken, '69; Joseph C. Gates, '7 3 ; Freddck J. Bassett, '77; Josiah Still, '81; Edward B. Waller, '82; Pickens Neagle, '84, and \Villiam A. Mc- Donald, '9r. Honorary degree A. M.-Dr. Carlos F. MacDonald, of N evv York. Honor- ary ·C. E.-C. A. Cockroft, '84-. A. B.-Ed,vin L. Auchampaugh, Quaker Street; I-liland L. Baggerly, Clyde; Nathan Beckwith, Stissing; Ashley J. Bran1an, Schenectady; Sidney T. Braman, Schenec- tady ;. Douglas Catnpbell, Schenectady; Harris Lee Cooke, N e\v Vorl< city; Arthur K. Doig, Scotia ; l-Iatniltot1 E. Furman, Schenectady; Robert F. Gihnour, Schenec- tady; Rayrnond A. Lansing, I..isha's Kill; George B. Lynes, Middleburgh; Leonard

TI-iE CONCORDIENSIS. -- --- =:.::==============-================::::::::= - ------ ----~---------- ----------- McClintock, South Worcester; En1n1et Sloat, Scotchto\vn ; Charles H .. Sn1itb, Tioga, Penn. ; George V. Stnith, T'ioga, Penn. ; Wi:llian1 J. Van Auken, Schenectady; R.ichard J. Van Beusekom, Jr., lVIcKowt1villc ; John Van Schaick, Jr., Cobleskill; Joseph N. \Vhite,. An1sterdam. C. :E.-Charles E. Gregory, B::tngaH; Walter L. Lawton, Glens Falls; Guy I-I. _ Miller, Herkimer; Justin 0. Reynolds, I-1-:-alls · Village, Conn. The presidents reception frorn eight t0 ten vVednesday evening, \Vas unusually well attended by ahnnni and friends of the college . who were anxious to greet the new president. The house, \vhich has been corn pletely re- novated, presented a very attractive appear- ance and was taxed to its utmost cap~city by the good natured throng \vhich packed its interior and gathered on the broad piazza. Among those present were ex-Senator \Varner Miller, ex-Governor l~ice, Col. Chas. E. Sprague, Senator Carey, Judge Landon, Rev. Dr. Geo. Alexander, 1\.ev. Dr. Denis Worttnan, Senator Parker and S. B. Brownell. During the evening rcfreshn1ents \Vere . served by caterer Ovvcns, of Utica, and shorHy after ten o'clock the guests began to disperse fron1 one of the n1ost enjoyable receptions ever held on Ccllege Hill. 'l'he n.tH. The cro\vning event of the season was the graduating ball \Vhich took place in the Nott Memorial hall. tnore popularly called \the round building.\ 1'he hall, \vhich is naturally a gem of art, being finished in polished n1arble of n1any hues and ornamented \Vith reproductions of n1any fan1ous antique statues, was made additionally attractive and beauti- ful with tasty decorations. Gioscia's orchestra of Albany, of 16 pieces, furnished the n1usic, and never has a better orchestra played in Schencctad y. The ball was a great social success and served as a fitting· close to the n1ost n1e1norablc con1 n1cncctncnt season the college has seen for years. l~arely has such an aggregation of beauti- ful won1en graced a ball roon1 floor in Sche- nectady ; and certainly n1cn were never n1ore gallant than \Vere the Union n1cn. All seen1cd loth to leave the fascinating scene, and the sun was slowly rising above the eastern hills before the tnerry dancers dis- persed. The fah- n1aidens with their matronly chaperones ~have sought their hotnes, taking with thetn one priceless trophy-- a soiled and wrinkled ordier of dance--that will serve in after years to recall the face of rnany a lion of the hour·, or stir the heart with .rnetnories uf sot11,e spirited deux tc11lj or the last wa:I:tz. And \Vhat o:f th~ students.? rfhey need no written record to recall the clos,ing scenes of the great panora n1a. Those scenes have been drawn \Viith an indelible hand upon memories ~tl11a1t shall be ever :green, until gri n1 ]'irne sha;Jl wield his scythe and call :the races run. lHIE SUMMER VACATlON. What the Faculty and Some of the Students Intend lloi:ng this Summer. Professor Cole vvill spend the sun1 mer abroad. Prof. Mosh,er will spend the su-mn1cr \Vi th relatives. II c expects to leave for H .. ochcster soon. Dean Ripton intends spending tnost of the sumtner here. His trips, if he takes any, will be but shoct excursions. Dr. vV r:ight \Nill retnain in Schenectady during the fore part of the sut11n1er. He, ho\vevcr, con tctnplatcs going abroad later in the season. Dr. Trua.x has tnade no definite arrange- ment for a st1n1n1er outing as yet. He was greatly pleased \Vith his White. rviountain trip last sumtner, however, a·nd n1ay repeat it this season. Dr. \Vhitehorne stated that he had no de- finite plans for the sun1mer. I-Ie expects to remain at l1on1e n1ost of the tin1e but wi:ll take occasional trips during the season, one of ·which vvi H be to visit his son in New Jersey. Prof. l I onrnan is too busy to th,ink of going away this smn1n1cr. l-Ie is just as well satis- fied to rcn1ain here as anywhere and expects to devote his tin1e to his literary labors. l-Ie is writing a not her book \Vhich will be finished before long-. Prof. Perkins h~1s not had titne to ~consider the question of a sun1n1er outing as yet. l-Ie expects to be engaged during the sumn1er in the study <Jf his favorite subject, analytical chemistry. :fie expects, however, that when the tin1e cornes, he and Judge I.,andon will take their usual trip to some secluded locality

THE CON'CORDIENSIS. I5 where they can enjoy a few weeks of quiet and rest Dr. Wells says that after years spent in travelling in this .and Gther countries, he has concluded tha;t there is no tnore pleasant or enj.oyable place in which to spend the su:tn- . n1er months tlaan right here within s.ight of· the fam~iliar b tJtildings of dear old Union. It is his intention to remain at ho.me during the · su'rn·mer, thoug1I he rnay take a day or two · out of town no~v and then. W. A. J ohnstoti,, '95, intends spending the sumn1er at Sharon Springs. 'G. V. Sn1ith,. ~94-, will study law in Sche- · nectady during :the sNmtner. · Doig. '94, win spend his sun1mer at Ridge- wood. Conn. He will teach next year. Ayrault, '95., \¥ill travel for the \Vestern New¥ ork Mf'·g- ·Co., tnakersof aspha1t roofing. S I 6 • • • 1 f . on1n1ers, 9 , 1s engtneer 111 c1arge o a w;;tter works construction at Coxsackie, N.Y. · C. R. S rnith, '94-, will rernain in Schenec- tady for a .fe\v tnonths in the ernploy of the college. Gregory, '94, will do engineering dudng- the sum tner. He n1ay take a P. G. course at Union next year. Pemberton, ~95, leaves in a few days for D,eer Trail, :Colorado, where he intends spending the sun1n1er. . Williatn H. Jtobinson will be found at hts home, in Dehnar, N. Y., also at Bennington, Vt., where he has relatives. G. A. Johnston, '95, ·will spend most of his titne at his l1ome though he tnay spend a portion of the sun11ner in the Adirondacks. l)aley, '97, \vill spend the fore part of the summer at Lake George. While there he \vill be the chief attraction at camp Andrews. · Ki:Ipatrick, '97, ·will spend the sumn1er \vith the New Y.or]{ Athletic club at 'Iraver's Island, training for the American champion- ship gatnes at Saratoga, July 2 I. Reynolds, '94, has accepted a position with Ham and Tuttle, a well known engineering .firn1 of N auga.tuck, Conn. Possibly he will enter the Colu·mbia School of Architecture next year. Day, '95, intends to spend the sun1n1er at his home in Cambridge. Fron1 there he con- tern plates taldng an extended drive through the Adirondack region. I.. .. ater in the surnmer he expects to have the n1aterial for next season's foot ball team in training at the Cambridge lal\es. ·----- ---- ·-=-- -=============::== :FOOT BALL PROSPECTS. In the words of lVLtnager Day \We' are going to l1ave the best team \Ve have ever had.\ I-I e has already secured some exceilent material for the tearn and says that he \viil have a nutnber of rnen trying for each posi- tion; and when he uses the \vord trying he n1eans just what he says,. for there \Vill be no half-way business abqut training next season. The policy of the manag-cn1cnt will be to secure the best tean1 \Vork even at the expense of losing the best individual players. The tearn will go into training, under the super- vision of Captain Brown, on the first of Sep- temberat Lake Launderdlaie, near Cambridge, N. Y. From the I )th of Septetnber .until Thanksgiving day, James MacNaughton Thornpson, Prir.ceton, '94, will be constantly on the ca n1 pus to coach. The schedule of gatnes is as follows: Sept. 29-R. P. I., at rfroy. Oct. 6-Cornell, at Ithaca. Oct. ro-Laureate, at Troy. Oct. I 3-\i'Villian1s, at \Villiamstown. Oct. 20- Arnherst, at Albany. O·ct. 27-Williarns, at Albany. Nov. 3--West Point, at West Point. Nov. ro-I-Iatnilton, at Clinton. Nov. I 7-Syracuse, at Syracuse. Nov. 2 !--Rochester, at Schenectady. Nov. 28-Wesleyan, at Albany. Garnes with R. P. I., Laureate and Ridge- field \Vill be arranged at Schenectady. -- m msiRllic:mrasw:smtalll4c Has anyone seen for years such a real old fashioned celebration as we hau for three days last \Veek ? The President's house will be kept open this summer by l\1rs. R.ayn1ond. Dr. Ray- mond \vill continue to stlpply pulpits in this vicinity until fall. The Hon. and l\1rs. John l\. DeRemer gave a r~ception for Dr. and Mrs. Raymond, at their handson1c residence on Church street, on Friday evening preceding commencement week. It \vas an occasion that called forth Schenectady's sn1artest social set. The n1en from the hill who were present were Douglas Catnpbell, '94; R. ~~. Giltnour, '94; Clarke Day, '95 ; I-Iarry Tooker \tVarnick, '95 ~Clarke Winslo·w Crannell, '95 ; George L. Streeter, '95, and I-io\vard Pemberton, zd, '95.

16 T'HE CONCOH.DIENSIS. It cannot be said of the student who does not. remain over for con1n1encement that he has been to college. If you know of any foot ball tnen 'vho intend entering college in the faH send their nan1es and addresses to Manager Clarke Day, Cambridge, N.Y. The committee of arrangements who so successfully conducted the commencem;ent ball was composed of 1~. F. Gilntour, J. 0. Reynolds and C. T. Loebenstein. The Sophomore assistants at thecornn1ence- n1ent ball \vcre: T. V. ·vv. Anthony, R. B. Beattie, A. S. Cox, A. S. Derby, H. A. Dc- Graef, R. S. Greenrnan, J. B. I-Iotaling, Ray Morris, W .. J. l~enwick and \V. IJ, Terry. The Sigma I)hi fraternity sent out about 200 invitations for a dance which \vas held in Fuller's hall on Monday evening of con1- mencement \Yeek. It was one of those en- joyable affairs that go to n1ake the conl- rnencen1ents at Union the so cia 1 successes that they are. Scientific Suspenders t_.o strain on b u tcons. Waistband is never puHed up. No baggy pants. No dragging down on shoulders .• No straps in vie\v in full dress. Trousers not pulled up away from shoe \\Vhen sitting. Cables preserved from wear. Built for, nnd \vorn by, the best dressed rnen in America. WEAR TH .E\\ ON~E a.nd you will pnt a pair on [t.IJ U each pair of Trousers. fiy mall, 50c., 75c., $1.00, $1.50,$2.00 ~ nostplrid, ~CIE~TIFIC SrSPEXDEU CO., Lim., Buffalo, N.Y. (Formerly llatile Creel!, nlich.) For sale by II. S. Barney 8;; Qo,t ~ctl~neQtad,y, N .. Y, rruL: .. A·Dt:tJG~fi£-'/E~y .f!Nn .of T\ D .. ' BL~llY fC ....... ·.· ·af&1' .~£~p-IS .JH.t: •. ~£NT. LfMAI'l'S 5MOKE. a 2 o~~ ·h·ia.l ~ackage \ . by r,natl post pald .for -.. 2.0 CENTS- t\ARBUffG BFrOS. ..,~~~ BAtTlMORE.f'\.D. FRED E. WELLS W <>uld ask those contemplating leaving their measure for a Fall Suit, Overcoat or Pants, to first in- sp€ct our stock in these lines. Our goods fit well, wear well and look well. Many prefer a sure fit in R6aou-Mad6 Giotnino to a chance fit in Custom-Made, and why not you, when you can Save 40 Per Cent. on the price of a garment. Ve also carry a large and complete line of Ftrnishing Goods, Hats and Caps in leading styles at popular prices. Full line of the latest E. & W. tOLLARJ J.IN[) t\lffJ. . 401 STATE ST~, Cor. Centre.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. iJ The foHowing. ladies were patronesses at · the com.mencen1ent ball : Mrs. Andrew V. V. Raytnohd, Mrs. PhiHp H. Cole, Mrs. Witherbee Foote, Mrs. Samuel W. Jackson, Mrs. O·. P. McQueen, Mrs. John Keyes Paige, .· Mrs. ) . W. Smitley, Mrs. J. N. Veeder, Mrs .. William Wells, Mrs. Daniel Butterfield, Mrs .. John r\. DeRemer, Mrs. John Gilmour, Mrs. DanielS. Latnont, Mrs. lloward T. Mosher, · Mrs. Maurice Perkins, Mrs. James H. Stoller, Mrs. vV. C. Vroon1an, Mrs. 'C. J. White, Mrs. J. B. Cahoon, Mrs. Edward Ellis, Mrs. W. S. H un1ter, Mrs. C. P. Linhart, Mrs. Warner . lVIilte~r, Mrs. Benjamin H. Ripton, Mrs. Char,fes E. Sprague, Mrs. W. E. Walker, Mrs. 1'. Vi!. \tV right, Mrs. A. A. Yates and Mrs. Thomas Yelverton. w-.&LL PAPERS 60 CENTS p:ER ROOM. :BANKRUPT STOCKS- Gol<l Fapers, 10c. High-class E;mbossed Golds, 20c., formerly $2 .oo, 'Thris week. Samt>les Ulailed for 10 cts. DISCOUNT TO CLERGYMEN. AGENTS WANTED. W'ALL PAPER BARGAIN HOUSE, 10 \'\Vest 23d Sb·e ·t, NEW YORli:. JJOHHSOH1l FASHIONABLE TAILOR, :15 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY. SPECIAL A-TTENTION PAID TO TRADE FROl\I UNION CoLLEGE. TRICK CIGARltTTlt. Made of finest tobacco, reg- ular size, and packed in legally stamped _box. When partly stnoked down, a beautiful red illumination takes place, to the surprise of the smoker and amusement of the spectators. Perfectly harmless and .a g1·eat joke. Per box, 25c., postpaid. Cata- logue of thousands of latest tricks and nove1tiesfr.ee. PECK & SNYDER, BOX 2571, NEW YORK CITY. Horsford's A~cid Ph,osphate Is the most effective ancl agreeable remedy in existence :for preventing in~ digestion, ancl relieving tl1ose diseases arising fro1n a clisorderec1 .stomach. Dr. W .. W. Gardner, Sr)ringfield, Mass., says : '' I value it as an excellent pTe- ventative of indigestion, and a pleasant acidulated clrink_ -vvhen }1Toper1y L1iluted with water, ancl sweetened.'' Descriptive pa1nphlet free on application to Jtumfo1.•d Chemlcal Works, Providence, R.I. Beware of Substitutes and Imitations. For Sale by all Dr-uggists_ ~ICH.MOiiD STRAJQnT CUT H~ I CJQ.IfRETTEJ. Cigarette Stnokers who are \\villing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade Cigarettes, will find this brand superior to all others. The Richn1ond Straight Cnt No. I Cigarettes are 1nade fr01n the brightest, n1ost delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the old and original brand of Straight Cut Cigarettes, and was bought out by us in the year 1875· Beware of In1itations, and observe that the firn1 11ame as below is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER BRANCH 'Ihe American Tobaceo Company, Manufacturers RICI-IMOND. VIRGINIA.

I8 THE CONCORDIENSIS . .) I_ LEVINE:~ THE TAN eURIJER OPERA HOUSE TAILOR. WRIGHT & DITSON, :SOSTO~~ ATHLETIC OU TFITTERSl FOE UNION\'_ SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. 344 \\W\ashi:n..gto::n.. Street;, Boston.., :Mass_ The Collumblltffi Standard Bilcycnce of the W owicdl9 graceful, light, and strong, this product of the oldest bicycle establishment in America still retains it$ place at the head. Always weli up to the times or a little in advance, its well-deservedand ever increasing popularity is a source of pride and gratification to its makers. To ride a bicycle and not to ride a Columbia is to fall short of the fullest enjoyment of a noble sport. Pope Mfg() C({))o 9 B({))stoll1l, New Y orlk 9 Clh1ncago9 IHiawtiordl() A beautiful illustrated catalogue free at any Columbia agency, or maHed for two two-cent stamps. Take Home a Stew in a ran, 25c Always pleases and interests those ·who appreciate well- executed work. 104 & 106 Wall St. fOCIETY AND _ROMMERCIAL . JRINTING A fPEctiALTY, Your patronage is earnestly desired. All favors receive prompt attention. ROY BURTON MYERS, 277 State St. '\W\edge :S-:u.ildi::n..g. COLLEGE STU ·DENTS wanting employment for the t. · • • su~mer should address P. vy. Ziegler & Co., Box 1801, Philadelphia, Pa., who offer great m- ducements for special work to which st1:1dents are well fitted, and Take Home a Fry in a Box, 25c. which pays $75 to $150 per month. A. G. SPALDIN'G & BROS., CHICAGO, los Madison Street. MANUFACTURERS OF ATHLETIC AND SPORTING GOODS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. The National League Ball, Bats, Catchers' Gloves at ... d Mitts, 111asks, Body Protectors, etc., etc. The Spalding Tournament Tennis Ball, The Slocum Racl(ets, Racket Covers, Presses and Nets, Court Meas- ures, Markers, Poles, Forks, etc. Uniforms and Clothing for all Sports, Outing and Gymnasiun1 Use. The finest imported Serges and Flannels. Newest Styles and Patterns. SEND FOR OUR NEW CATALOGUE. NEW YORK, 243 Broadway. PHILADELPHIA, 1032 Chestnut Street

THE CONCORDlENSiS. 19 Quiri' s Shoe Store 18 THE PIJAOE TO GET GOOD GOODS LOWE S'I' PRICES. All the Goods are n1ade by the Leading ]Manu- facturers in the Country and are the VERY LATEST STYLES. PLEASE GIVE US A CALL AND BE CONVINCED. 325 STATE STREET. HOTEL Al\_D l1_E.ST)UitANT, j3ROADWA.Y AND ji1.AIDEN ~ANE, EUROPEAN PLAN. ALBANY, N. Y. \g '* ~~ THE ''AXDERBILT, SYRACUSE; N• Y. Cor. Wanen atHl Washington Streets. J ...A..::M:ES ..A.~ :S..A.RR'\Y\\::~ - - :Proprietor. Headquarters for Union's Athletic Club when in Syracuse. 324 & 326 S. Ce~ltre st., Schenectady, N.Y. Good Single and Double Turnouts. Everything First-Class Telephone Connection. WM. H. HATHAWAY, Prop'r. AN AGEN .. c· y·· ·• is valuable it: proportioii to its in- fluence. If 1t 1nerely hears of va- cancies and t.clls THAT is son1ething, but if it is you about then-'1 · asked to recon1mend a teacher an.d recomm.encls R E C 0 1\lr MEND S you that IS more. Ours 111 C. \\V. BARDEEN, Syracuse, N. Y.

20 ADVERTISEMENTS. MARKS & K.RANK, ! d !) IE&a - 1 1119 ~ .·~ .. .! ;ewalera~ 'i' 271 State Street. Li -u-e:cy Stables., 130 & 134 S. Centre St., Schenectady, N. Y. College Work a Specialty. Telephone Communication WHOLESALE J..ND RETAIL DEALERS IN MEN'S, YOUTHS' AND BOYS' CLOTHING, College, Bicycle and Society Uniforms a Specialty. Nos. 18,. ~o, ~~ and ~4 JAMES STRltltT, Cor. Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. n a.. CRAFT, B. M. SECOR, J. D. CHAPIN. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. H. MANSFIELD, Proprietor. ::S:UYLE:e·s -JINSAfJAQQM'S- BON BONS AND CHOCOLATES GatBfBr O RBSta urant. PURE, DELICIOUS AND FRESH, AT Lyon's Drug Store Only. .IMPORTED and KEY WEST CIGARS, SMOKING TOBACCO, ~ETC, STRICTLY FIRST -CL./\SS SERVICE. Guaeanteed for Wedding Parties, Etc. Also, the best of Ice Cream, Fancy Cake and Confectionery . 20 Third Street, - - TROY, N. Y

ADVERTISEMENTS. ZI t1. S. fJJIKtfEi & (Q., . . . NEW YORK HOMCEOPATHIC 217 to 223 State Street, MEDICAL COLLEGE A.RE .E:EADQU..A.RTERS FOB, AND H OSP I'T A L, Gents' Furuishi:ng Goods., ·Underwear, HOSIERY, ETC .. Prices Lower, Styles Better, than any other House. .STUl)ENTS ~ AltD OTHERS~ IfUftuW,~n· L Lamps, Toilet Ware, h ·II ~ Crockery, Glass Ware, H ousefurnish ing Goods, s·i I ver Ware, Bri c -a- Brae, &c., You will find .all .at S R JA''ES the popular stores of · • . • · J.VJ. ' Z0:3 & 80-4; S.T..ATE ST-., Sch.e:n.ecta.d.y- F. E. DWYER, PROP'R. ,.t wu~~mam~~ ~~[[l~~Jl ~9D~J ·~ HOTEL EDISON. College Stud en ta' HairCutting a S:Pecial ty. Cor. 63d St. and Eastern Boulevafd, New York City. SESSION BEGINS OOT. 3, 1893. CLOSES MAY 1, 18M The course of instruction is carefully graded, he- ginning in laboratory work and didactic teaching in Chetnistry, Anatomy, Phys,iology and Histology. In these branches the students are provided \vith the · che1nical apparatus, re-agents, subjects for dissecting, I n1:kroscopes and all instrun1ents and mat~rial·reqL~·isite for a thorough kno·wlcclge of the vanous subjects taught. The Seniors are carefully instructed in General and Special Pathology, Diagnostics and Therapeutics, as applied to all fonns of disease. Clinical instruction constantly supple1nents the lectures, material being supplied from the large Dispensary attached to the College. Bedside instruction is given in the diseases of children, and in Obstetrics. Operations in Ge11eral Surg;ery and Gynrecology at the Plower I-Iospita.l ad- joining the College, ancl -Laura Franklin Hospital for Children. • W\. T. HEL]IUTH, lU. D., IJIJ. D., Dean • For information and announcement address the Secretary, L. L. DANFORTH, M. D., 35 vVest SISt St., N·ew York City. The Union Clothing Co. TH:E fEOV·LE'J .STO;RE. Of A~ba.ny., GUARANTEES A SAVING OP AN ALL-ALIV'E HOQSE. $3.00 on $10.00 \The Middleman's Proflt.' 80 & 82 STATE ST .. SAFE! CERTAIN! QUICK! PLEASANT I College of Physicians and Surgeons. Opp. Cook county Hospital, Chicago, Ill. Th0 Wint\r Term bt>gi~s September, 1R94, and eml:;; A}1l'il, 18fl;') Tot.al f~es, $105 Pach 'Ymter Term, and a Laboratory n('posit ·winch IS returnable. 1 1 our Annual Gradf'd Com·Res, with Ad- vanced Standing for graduates in Pharmacy and Uniwrsi ty Pre pamtory Cmn·sps prior to the study of meclicinf'. Clinical an<l Laboratory facilities m1sm·passerl. For Annual Cir<'nlm· of Infor- mation apply to \V. K QUINE, M.D., Pres. of the Faculty, fb14,Qt 813 'Vest Harrison St. ·

22 ADVERTISEMENTS. ELA.VAN OUSE, Headqua:rte,rs of ~College Associations while visiting Albany. HURTY & MO~ORE, Prop'rs. ~ ·nrmz -~ z · rr · J OSEPH GILLOTT'S STEEL PE:N,S. . THE FAVORITE NUMBERS, 303,404,604,351,170, AND HIS OTHER STYLES SOLD BY ALL :DEALERS THROUGHOUT THE. WOR CAP.S AND GOWNS,. HATS, TRAVELING BAGS, Mll.CINTOSHES ' CLASS CANES, &c. COTRELL & LEONARD, 472 anu 474 BROAD\VAV, ALBANY, N. Y. LEVI CASE & CO., COD• DHr, B ... rass and ShBBt Irn1 Work,·~ lnl~ll~v (~lf~v lr~~~v Trunks, Bags, Gloves, Umbrellas, Mackintoshes, &c. STEAJJI, JJOT TT'/1,/lTlllt ~!l){IJ FUR,N .JlCE Iilt,;J_TJ.}{G A SPECIALTY. Jos. Gioscia's Orcl1cstra ..,.----- (JF- Hat·n1anus Bleec-ker Hall. JA.USIC fuF\!'IISHED fo~}LLPCCASIONS Guaranteed the Best Orchestra. 11 CLINTON AVE. A:LBANV N.V Also, CLASS CANES. L. T. CLuTE., Hatter and Furrier, 227 STATE STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. MAJON,'TttE TAILOR' SUITS, TO ORDER, . PANTS, TO ORDER, OVERCOATS, . I • • . $16.00 I I I 4.00 I I I 18.00 137 JAY JTK·E·ET.

ADVERTISEMENTS. 23 H. W. BALDWIN, ~ M6fi'S Sh06S. ~~ f\lbilllU~ N. Y. I ·mal~e a speciaJty of SHOES FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS. ..tll Styles and ~fa­ terials are represented in 1ny lines. Higlt Grade Gool1s at I.)opnlar Prices. TEN PER CENT. DISCOUN'f T:O UNION STVDENTS. H. W. BALIJW.IN', - 2~9! ·N. Pearl St. & 41 :Maiden Lane, Albany, N.Y. '' Character in Printing '' Tells .. P. F. McBREEN, Printer, Removed to the New Fi~re= Proof :BuUding YOU SHOULD DRINK ROUill D UtGh 601166. IT IS DELICIOUS AND HEALTHFUL. T'he strongest and finest flavored Coffee in the n1arkct. [ t will not disturb the n1ost deli- 218 WILLIAM ST., N. Y., • cate stornach. Consult your present and future ' cotnfort by refusing any other kind but ''ROYAL DUTCH.\ Next to the Brooklyn Bridge. Greater Facilities for the '' Always Ready Printer.\ -y_ ~- c . .E.. RESTAURANT, COR. STATE & FERRY s:T··~t Best Dinner in the City For 25c. ·. ~Meal Tickets will be sold to Students·· only for $J.OO for 2 I tickets, until Dec. 3 I, '93. •· GEO. '1'. LUCKHURST, Proprietor. 242 & 244 Liberty Street, :Scheneetatly. ENTRANCE. ALSO FRO:M STATE STREE'l'. A First-Glass Livery Connected Witn the House .• Funeral Parties a Spccialt y. AQQ\IST StHMII)T, \V. E. l\1cE\VAN, hn'ORTER, .l\.LBANY, N. Y. ::S::OTEL EUR:t'TS., Cor. Stn.lth Clinton & 'Vest Fayette Sts., Syracuse, N. Y MILTON A.. ROBERTS, ~lANAGER. Newly Furnished and Equipped Throughout. CLERKS: GEo. D. BABCOCK, N.H. vVooF, JAs. L. '\YIIITI\. L. A... ;r o u J>:ra., S baYi g & Hair Dressing 2 12 state st., schenectady, •. . n . . . . . .... Musical MEtchandiSE 0f ~11 ~inds. FARLOE.Sj .PPP. fDISON jloTEL,. (UP...:STALRS.) Sole Agent for the justly celebrated Haines Brothers, Decker Bros., Keller Bros. and Jacob Bros. Pianos, and United States, Estey, Clough & \Varrcn, Ster- ling and Bri(1geport Organs. Prices Low aAzcl Terrn,s Liberal.

24 ADVER.TISEMEN1,S. tHAJ. N. Tf.1TEJ ~& JON, Sf!~ JtilMJIS /l!~fl!/1/#l~ , IJ6State.s~t., Schc;uclady. ~-----UTICA, N.Y. Ffii~Hl:Jf'flfMb? Wet~BBM(j(JjMS~ SMITH &. WHITIC, Proprietors. Heels, Chairs, l\lattresscs and all ::uticlcs pertaining RATES $2.00 and $2. so. to furnishing students' roon1s. =. - OYSTEES. ALL TUE BEST GRADES OF Oysters and Little .Neck Clams, To be had at all tzines aJZd in any quantity, zit the shell or opozed to order, at WIENCKE'S, - - 322 State Street. PETER JY.r_ DOT~:: -DEALER IN- Sol·e Agent For l<nox & Miller Hats, --FOR-- Goocls Deli-oerecl Free. Ef) WA R·D S. B:RI~Q~PALL, Firte F;oot \?\!ear, U;N.IOJlllt~lLL BLO·CIC, 429 State Street, - - - - 'Schenectady, N. Y. The l\Iost Complete Line and Latest Styles. of all kiml::; for Professionals aml .Amateu1·s. Full lines of len,<ling makes of .At the lowest market 11riecs. Darl;:; Room for use of customers. Opp. Union Depot Arcade, 544 Brondway, Albany, N. Y. ~OOD.EEOS.~ Roses, Cut Flowers, 255state street,schenect:uly~N. Y. or Funeral Designs, , MEN'8 FURNISHING GOOD8, -Go To 1 sHIRTS, UNDERWEAR, GLov~Es, HOSIERY, I GRUPE, THE FLORIST, I NECKWEA.R, CJ~LARS ANI> GUFFS. 125 TVt:~ll St., - U1~cler E(lisort H oiel. d,., Goods received f~~r Troy Laundry. so::a::EN\\EOT AD'\Y i 1 . BARHYTE & D,EVENiECK~nn \VllolesnJe aad Retail Dealers In. iJ:tJtatm Jt~nu~~v~ fl}fJiJIL 4/NR Woo• THOMAS ODY, Proprietor, SCHENECTADY, N. Y lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay and Straw and Ferti l'izers, 306, 3-08 and 310 Un1011 a.ncl 209 and 211 Dock Streets, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ;'lt lJ l f,_, ~'t;,

