' I . I ' -.; . ~ . ···.·~ ' ,·'I .. ' . '-I ,. .. _ . ·' - n, .~&r.~: ;:-;:~ VoL. XIX.- No. 1. .- ... • UNION COLLEGE, SEPTEMBER 25, 1895. I • .•.- ·- - FtRST .BLAT·.c·HFOHO OHATI:ON. tion, although not so faulty as the analogy to the 111achine, is still found to be inadequate. · There is in it no analogue for individual free- Man himself is man's most perplexing ·• do-tn. Society is an organism, but it is also problem. M'odetn logic has been· as valn in · something mote. Its parts tnust not only act its endeitv0/to solve the riddle of his existenc-e · 1 h · • 1 b 1 h. THE tNDIVI'DtJAL AND SOCIETY. · , •.. · . ' . toget 1er annontous· y, · ut t 1.ey must ave .a as the~ p1~ayers of antiquity. What divine pur- . freedom and autonomy of their own. pos~ does- ·htunanity fulfill? is the first and [ast , - · · We tnust, in our attempts to progress, follow ·qu.estiop . history addresses to the Father of . · ., ·.. · the trend of the past. This, since the beginning L:igl1:f~:.:· ·. Partly discouraged and partly inspired : of the Christian Era, has been an advance of by the greatness of his task, tnan turns from the : individual liberty. The striving of rnankind for oracle with its meaget and doubtful replies, and · nobly endeavot·s to find this purpose written in •. freedorn found its most absolute expre8sion in the Fi·ench Rev-olution. In this wild struggle the laws ordained by his Maker. the proposition that liberty equals anarchy con- One of the first lessons the human being is : forced to learn is the necessity of adapting hitn- : tradicted itself. Entire independence then self to the nature of others of his kind. He . proved to be impossible. finds this in seen1ing contradiction to a Jaw , within himself-the law of his own freedotn. These two great facts he must 1:econcil'e. He · :finds re';istance to the first and a practical denial : of the second equally in1possible. He cannot even take a neutral position. He must ever strive with the great forces about him. In the advancernent of civilization there are three processes-· subjugation, liberation, organi- zation. Ancient history is characterized by the . process of subjugation; medirevaL h+story, by · liberation ; and we are now ... ,s,trJ.;v:-ii1g .. foT ··har- tnonious organiz~tit111. Th:e~ .~\J1;·Q:bleitt1~efot~ us is·to find the golden ·mean bet.W.~eri. a~arcl;y-·arici univ'~it$al sl~;yerl~~li:li~rt is·, to detennine the true natJ~!:e.·.t>f 1't~.ee.a6n1. · ... · ·.. . . . ~ ·:'--_··, T):te prQcess ~f organization is one attended by great dangers and great difficultit~s. What is the social structure to be? Is society a machine or an organistn ; or ib it neither? On the answer given to these questions depends the . whole trend of social evolution in so far as that evolution is the result of n1an's conscious en- • deavor. The consensus of tnodern science has been to : regard society as an organistn. This concep- · For the last half-century, the results of thought and experience have shown tnore and more the limitation of individual freedon1. There is now a tendency to tninirnize the indi- vidual and magnify the organic brotherhood. Too much stress is laid on the positive authority of the State. Society, undoubtedly, has the right to regulate things for the greatest possible good ; but how is it to know what this greatest good is? Ignorant of this, it is entirely unable to wield supreme authority over the lives and property of its rnernbers. Absolute authority rests only with absolute reason, and society cannot possess tl1e former till it has gained the latter. Humanity has by no means reached its ma- n1aturity. It cannot yet put its knowledge into practice. J-Iad Christianity been able to re- generate mankind by forcing entire compliance with the vvhole code of Christian ethics, there would soon have been no hutnanity to regener- ate. The greater part of itnprovetnent is beyond the realm of authority. It can only be ~ffected by a growth whereby the will of the individual shall be harmonized with the needs of society. We must cherish in our hearts the spirit of

\J I\ t74 . l a Vt \ c, \ G,~NG~RDIENSIS. i I ., ' I·:~·:-> l ' ~ . VoL. XIX. UNION O·OLLEGE, SEPTEMBER 2!l·, 1895. No. 1. FI::HST BLATCHFORD OR~ATI~ON. THE INDIVIDUAL AND SOCIETY. Ma11 hirnself is tnan's most perplexing . probl'em. Jyfodern logic has been as vain in its en<:leavor to solve the riddle of his exis:tence as the: pn:tyers of antiquity. What divine pur- pose does hurnanity fulfill? is the first and last . questi.on history addresses to the Father of Light. Pardy discouraged and partly inspired . by the greatness of his task, rnan turns fro1n the oracle with i:ts tneager and doubtful replies, and nobly endeavors to find this purpose written in the l:nvs ordained by his Maker. One· of the first lessons the butnan being is forced to learn is the necessity of adapting hitn- self to the nature of others of his kind. He finds this in seen1ing contradiction to a hnv withi·n himself-the law of his own freedotn. These two great facts he must 1~econcile. He finds 1·e-;istance to the first and a practical denial of the second equally itnpossible. He cannot even take a neutral position. He must ever strive with the great forces about him. In the advance1nent of civilization there are three processes-subjugation, liberation, organi- zatioEt. Ancient history is characterized by the process of subjugation; 1nedia~val history, by liberation ; and we are now str] ,r:t1g foT har- tnonious organization. T'he DrQbletn before us is to find the golden 1nean b~~~\veen anarchy and u niven~al slavery~--th~~t is, to dctennine the true nature of free-d~n1. TJ1e process of organization is one attended by great dangers and great difficulties. What is the social structure to be? Is society a macl1ine or an organistn ; or i~ it neither? On the an.svver given to these questions depends the vvho]:e trend of social evolution in so far as that evolution is the result of· rnan's conscious en- deav()r. Tl1e consensus of n1odern science has been to regaTd society aS an organistn. rThis concep- tion, although not so faulty as the analogy to the tnachine, is still found to be inadequate. T1l!ere is in it no ana.Logue for individual free- dotn. Society is an organism, but it is also something tnore. lts parts. tnust not only act . together hannoniously, but they 1nust have a freedom and autonotny of their own. We tnust, in our attem~pts to progress, follow the trend of the past. This, since the beginning of the Christian ETa, has been an advance of individual liberty. 'The striving of tnankind for freedorn found its most absDlute expre8sion in the French Revolution. In this wild struggle the proposition that liberty equals anarchy con- tradicted itself. :Entire independence then prov-ed to be impossible. For the last half~ centtn-y, the results of thought and experience have shown tnore and mot·e the limitation of individual freedon1. There is now a tendency to n1inimize the indi- vidual and magnify t11e organic brotherhood. Too tnuch stress is Ia idon the positive authority of the State. Society, undoubtedly, has the right to regulate things for tl1e greatest possible good; but how is it to know what this greatest good is? Ignorant of this, it is entirely unable to wield supreme authority over the lives and property of its metnbers. Absolute authority rests only with absolute reason, and society cannot possess the former till it has gained the latter. Humanity has by 110 means reached its ma- n1aturity. It cannot yet put its knowledge into practice. J-f ad Christianity been able to re- generate mankind by forcing entire compliance with the vvhole code of Christian ethics, there would soon have been no hurnanity to regener- ate. The greater pari: of itnprovetnent is beyond the realtn of authority. It can only be effected by a growth whereby the will of the individual shall be harmonized with the needs of society. We must cherish in our hearts the spirit of

4 THE 0'0NOORDIENSIS. altruistn. This is the only solution to the great .· Modern Languag€s, Mr. McKenzie has studied enigma befo!\e us. Chains, the dungeon, and . at Harvard for seven years besides having spent the sword have their part in history ; but woe · two and a half years in Europe. He received to that na,tion w l1i ch shall use them too free} y. the degree of Ph. D. from Harvard in in '9 5. The spirH of brotherly kindness, that Heaven- He will have the Sophomores and Juniors in sent messenger of hope, endures not the harsh ·. beginning Gernta'n and French. rattle of iron gyv-es nor the fietr ce clangor of the . Me John L Bennett, Union '90, has taken battle-trum pcl. Brute force is its. defeat. It is post graduate work at the Univetsity of Chicago Ihe ever-active spirit of Him who came that and Harvard. FOr some time he has taught in humanity might have life, and might have it tl\e Hyde P'at·k High School of Chicago. more abundantly. JoHN N. V. VEDDER. During the absence of Prof. Ashrnore, Mr. Bennett will ins1rHct the Sopho1nore class in Latin. He will aliso assist in the Greek depa~1:t- the ancients.. Philip H. ·Coil 1 e who has been assistant professor in tl1e English departn1ent for six years has severed his con.mection with the college and devotes all his tim~ to his pastorate of the Second Reform·ed church. Deatl] ·o] ~x-(iou. F{iee. One of Union's most loyal and enthusiastic alumni, Ex-Gov. Alexander H. Rice, passed away at his '-hqtne at Melrose, Mass., July 22. His death was caused by para1 ysi_s; this fatal shock having been the third. . Mr. Rice was bon'l in Newton, L·ower Fall, Mass., Aug. 30, I 8 18. His father was_. an ex- tensive paper manu£1cturer, and he learned'tlfe·· .. business in his father's mills. He entered Union in r84o, graduating in '44-· After leaving college be entered upon a business life as clerk in a paper finn in Boston. After two years service lle became a 1nember of the firm, and was sooH 1·ecognized as one of the leading merchants of Boston. He always took: .an active interest in the municipal governt:nent, and entered upon his political career by being elected a common r::· .·.·.:·:·. .~ . ' . . ' ' ' ' ( .... · ' : .-.-, '~ . i '· ',·..., ' .. ·. ::: ..

4 THE OONOORDIENSIS. altruis tn. Thi~s is the only solution to the great enigm-a before us. Chains, the dungeon, and the sw-t>rcl have theh part in history; but woe . to that nation whicl1 shall use then1 too freely. The spirit of brotherly kindness, that Heaven- . sent rnessenget of hope, endures not the harsh rattle of iron gyves nor the fierce clangor of the battle-ttrur11pet. Brute force i:s its defeat. It is · rhe ev-er-active spirit of Hin1 who came that · hun1am. ity 1night have life, and might have it tnore a-bundantly. JoHN N. V. VEDDER. Modern Languages. Mr. Mci{enzie has sh1died at Harvard for seven years besides having spent two and a half years in Europe. He received the degree of Ph. D. frotn Harvard in in '95. He will have the Sophon1ores and Juniors in beginning Gennan and French. Mr. John I. Bennett, Union 'go, has taken post graduate work at the University of Chicago and Harvard. For son1e tiine he has. taught in the Hyde Park High School of Chicago. During the absence of Prof. Asl11nore, J\fr. Bennett will instruct the Sophotnore class in Latin. He will also assist in the Greek depart- ment. Prof. Ash1nore will avail hirnself of a recent decree of the faculty which grants a leave In ac:cot-_dance with the progress of the college . of absence of one year to any tneanber of the in depa:ttm ents where improvements are possible, Fa Gul ty ~l]a,1]·9es. faculty ·who has taught for ten years in the a nun1~er of additions have been 1nade to the · college. He will spend the year in travel and faculty that now en a hle us to boast of one of study, visiting Rotne especially, in orde:r to con- the larg:est, best and most efficient of any of the · tinue his studies of the manner and customs of smaller colleges. the ancients. Edw\t-d Everett Hale, Jr., comes to us to •· Philip H. Cole who has been assistant take the chair in Logic and Rh€toric, thus professor in the English departn1ent for six years transfenri ng the logic frotn the Phi1osophical to has severed his connection with the college nncl the Eng]ish deparbnent. Dr. Hnle is a graduate devotes all his tim~ to his pastorate of the Second of Harv-ard, and subsequently studied at the Reformed church. Univers1ty of Halee, in GenHany, where he received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. In addiGon to the regular work required in the curriculum,. Dr. Hale will give a series of lectures on the \ Influence of Colloqualistn on Style.\ The English department also receives another addition in Mr. Reeves, a graduate of Johns Hopkins University. Mr. Reeves has a Ph. D. degree and has 1nade an extensive study in the lines of work which he will teach. He is to instruct in Rhetoric and Logic. The 1Pl1i1osophicaL departn1ent has been enlarged by the addition of Mr. A. F. Buck, as instructo•· in Philosophy, Mr. Buck wi11 also instruct it1 English Literature. He is a graduate of Atnhe:t·st and has ta.ken post graduate work at Harvanl when he received the degree of Ph. D. He will give especial attention to Advanced Ethics a.n.d Physiologi,cal Psychology. Mr. JCenneth McKenzie, a graduate of Harvard in '9 I, will assist in the department of ---------·-- --·---·----~-- - Dea tl; ·of tx-(iov. [.{ice. One of Union's most loyal and enthusiastic alumni, T-l:x-Gov. Al'exander H. Rice, passed away at his hotne nt 1\Ielrose, Mass., July 22. His death was caused by paralysis; this fatal shock having been the third. Mr. Rice was born in Newton, Lower Fall, Mass., Aug. 30, 1818. His father was an ex- tensive paper manu£1cturer, and he lenrned the business in his father's 1nills. He entered Union in r84o, graduating in '44· After leaving college he entered upon a business life as clerk in a paper fin11 in Boston. After two years service he becam,e a Ine1nher of the finn, and was soon recognized as one of the leading 1nerchants of Boston. He always took an active interest in the municipal government, and entered upon his political career by being elected a con1mon

v i ' ... -···. .~ . '' ' ' ' ' ( .... · ' ; \ ' .. · ... ·. : .-.-, '~ . i .. ·· ·'' . . · ··-,;t THE O·ONCORDIENSIS. councihnan.. He sei·ved succe:ss.ively as presi- The Bib[;e classes were conducted by W. H. dent of the council and tnayor of the city. SaUon1on and Pvo£ ... James McConaughy ; the During his administration many improvements Round Top m·eetings were in charge of Rev .. were made, both in the city and ~ts governm~ent. H. P. Beach, and the conferences to discuss In 1859 Mr. Ric~e was elected to ~Congress by colllege work were led by John R. Mott. the Republicans, aH.d served for four successive .· Swimming, tennis:~ base-ball and other athletic tenns. After leaving Congress he ret,ired fi·om . amusetnents filled up the afternoons. Base-ball public life until 1876,. when he was chosen ganes were played f<n· the championship of the governor .of Massachusetts, and served for three · conference, which was won by Yale. The firs:t terms. And as governor he show~ed the satne . ga.tne of the seri~es. was between Union and ability and consci:enti:o.us devotion to duties that Haverford, and a glance over the Hst represent- he had m:a:nifes.ted in other positions of public ing Union is enough to show how well her service. base-ball hon:ors we:r.e·defended. For with such .Nfr. Rioe was a 1ne1nber of the Pt~otestant veterans as Van Deu.sen and Hilton as battery, Episcopa:l Church, and took a very activ·e part. PoUock first and Hover third, the team was in all its services. invincible. ·Of course the work done by HaU To Union tnen he has endeared himself in · at short and )_,.. oung :in left field was phenominail. 1nany ways. He has delivered a lecture in the · The rest of the team played a strong, steady Butterfield C·Ourse on ''' The Duties of a Gover;.. . game. nor and His Work,\ and his smiling face has. One ,evening, or rather midnight, Union always been seen at college on coJntllencement varied the program .o.f things by arraying them- day. Union has cet·tainly sustained a loss. · selves in their retiring gowns and taking Prince- UI]iOIJ at fiortl}fi~ld. Each year, imrnediately after the close of coUege, l\!Jr. D. L .. Moody holds a conference · of college Y. M .. C. A.'s at his home at North- . fi.eld\ Mass. This year there were 500 students in attendance, re:P!.crsenting 125 ·College associa- . tions. The conferenc,e is held in the buildings ·of the ~Iorthneld Serr.inary. 'The forenoons were given up to Bible classes and platform meetings, the afternoons to recreation and the evenings to platform n1eetings. Union was represented by twelve m·en: Geo. E. Pollock, J. :G. Raton, D. L. Wood, G. L. VanDeusen, Geo. Young, W. H. Ha.Jl, 0. B. · Pershing, H. R. Hover, G. ·C. Perry, E. H. Rodgers,.· C. H. Mattison, W. M. Swann. Next to Cornell this ~·as the largest delegation from New York State, and Union tried to rnake herself heard from. For speakers, Mr •. Moody brings together the best talent trom, this country and Great Britain -such men as Theo4 L. Cuyler, President Patton, of Ptinceton ; Bishop Hall, of Ver- mont; Dr. A. T. Pierson and Robert E. Speer. • ton for a ride in a hay ·wagon, Princeton being sim,iiarly arrayed. A.t the 4th of July celebra- . tion the garnet waved over a booth of ib~ own, and the \ Song to Old Union\ vindicated its right to being caUe.d the finest of any college song. But merely repeatin.g the program cannot teU the story ot that convention. Nor can the in- Huence of it be told in words. All who met together there to study plans for advancing the association's wotk saw a broader life open before them, and felt an influence that cannot be ex- pressed in words. The wedding of Oow Vro·man, '88, and Miss Sloan of Buffalo, took place Thursday afternoon, Sept. 26. Mr. Vroman is a member of a very prosperous law fit·m of Tonawanda. Dr. Linhart wisb.es to announce that the gymnasium will not open until Oct. r st. His examinations began last Monday .

(Vi + 'cl ·f-... <;..·. lN)· ' :, ' ' ',' 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 5 counciln1an.. He served stlccess.ively as presi- · The Bible classes were conducted by W. H. dent of the council and 1nayo1- of the city. : Sallon1on and Prof. James McConaughy; the During his administration n1any irrnproventents Round Top meetings were in charge of Rev. were tnade, both in the city and its; government. ;. H. P. Beach, and the conferences to discuss In 1859 Mr. Rice was elected t0 Congr:ess by · college work were led by John R. Mott. the Republicans, and served for f0ur succe~Ssive · Swimming, tennis, base-ball and other athletic tenus. After leaving Congress he retired fro·m · atnusetnents filled up the afternoons. Base-baH public life until 1876, when l1:e wa1s chosen , 1 games were played for the championship of the governor of Massachusetts, and served for three . conference, which was '\von by Yale. The first terms. And as governor he sho-vved the sarne : game of the series was between Union and ability and ·consci:entious devotion -to duties that ' Haverford, and a glance over the list represent- he had manifested in other positions of public : ing Union is enough to show how well her service. base-ball honors were defended. For with such 1\fr. Rice was a tnetnber of the Protestant . veterans as Van D:eusen and Hilton as battery, Episcopal Church, and took a -very active part · Pollock first and Hover third, the team was in all its services. invincible. Of course the work done by Hall To Union 1nen he has endeared himself in . at short and)_ ... oung in left field was phenon1inal. tnany ways. He has delivered a liecture in the · The rest of the team played a strong, steady Butterfield course on \ The Duties of a Gover- · nor and His Work,\ and his srn:it rng face has · always been seen at college on cot-n1nencen1ent day. Union has certainly sustained a loss. Each year, imn1ediately after the close of college, 1\tJr. D. L. Moody holds: a conference of college Y. M. C. A.'s at his h()me at North- fi,eld, Mass. This year there wer~ 500 students in attendance, representing 12 5 C()llege associa- tions. The conference is held ia the buildings of the 1'Jorthfield Sen:inarv. ':Cl1·e forenoons ' v were given up to Bible classes and platform meetings, the afternoons to recreation and the evenings to platform n1eetings .. Union was represented by twelve men : Geo. E. Pollock, J. G. Hilton, D. L. Wood, G. L. VanDeusen, Geo. Young, W. H. H~ll, 0. B. Pershing, H. R. Hover, G. C. Perry, E. H. Rodgers, C. H. Mattison, W. M. Swann. Next to Cornell this '\vas the lat·gest delegation . from New York State, and UnioH tried to 1nake herself heard frotn. For speakers, Mt. Moody brings together the best talent front this country and Great Britain -such men as Theo. L. Cuyler, President Patton, of Princeton ; Bishop Hall, of Ver- mont ; Dr. A. T. Pierson and Robert E. Speer. , game. One evening, or rather tnidnight, Union varied the progratn of things by arraying thetn- selves in their retiring gowns and taking Prince- ton for a ride in a hay wagon, Princeton being sitnilarly arrayed. At the 4th of July celebra- tion the garnet waved over a booth of its own, and the '' Song to Old Union\ vindicated its right to being called the finest of any college song. But merely repeating the progratn cannot tell the story ot that convention. Nor can the in- . fluence of it be told in words. All who met together there to study plans for advancing the association's work saw a broader life open before then1, and felt an infiuenc·e that cannot be ex- pressed in words. The ·wedding of Dow Vroman, '88, and Miss Sloan of Buffalo, took place Thursday afternoon, Sept. 26. Mr. V rornan is a tnetnber of a very prosperous law firm of Ton a wanda. Dr. Linhart wishes to announce that gymnasium will not open until Oct. I st. examinations began last Monday. the His

THE OONCORDIEN'SLS. 78 :F:RESHM.EN HAVE ENTER-ED. MEMBERSHIP OF THE NiEW CLASS. Seventy-eight Freshtnen had entered up to Tuesday and more are expected. The class, while not as large as that of last year, could easily have been increased to a larger number· had not 1n:any been turned a way, owing to lack: • of preparation. Those who have registered are as follows : COURSE. NAME. E . E. Julian V. Aquilera, E.. Lucius C. Barry, JL E. Havilah L. Beardsley, c. H. J. Bonestead, s. Lloyd D. Bray, L. s. Aaron J. Bradt, C-- Leroy T. Bradford, L. s. W m. F. H. Breeze, B. E. B. E. :Ej. s. L. S. s. s. c. E:. E. E:. E. s. L. s. s. s. ~c: E. E }i~. s. s. Mount Vernon. Inage. Plattsbul~gh,. Albany. A.msterdarn. Sandy Hill. Massena. Aibany. Victor. Ballston. LeRoy. Chicago, Ill. Albany. New Yo1·k City. Schenectady. Schenectady. A.Ibany,. Newark. Albany. Ogdensburg .. Schenectady. Sandy Hill. Albany. Johnstown. Ballston. Potsda1n. :E. Wm. E. Brown, s. A. 0. Casey, L. s. Frederick R. Chan1pion, Auburn. Hudson. Auburn. Schenectady. E. E. . L. S. Waterford. Middlebury. c. Roy N. Clayton, c. John Hawley Cook, E. E. James H. Cotton, E. E.. John F. Oregan, c. Wm. B. Davis, L .. s. Homer Dillenbeck, E. R. L. S. L, S. George A. Doran, Robert M. Eames, Wallace H. Failing, Geo. Clarke Foote, G·ranville. .Albany. Fl'iendship. Schenectady. Schenectady. Palatine Bridge . Amsterdam. Albany. Baldwinsville. Po~·t Henry. Binghamton. L. S. Chauncey French, Wtn R. Fox, Kalamaz()o, Mich. L. S. L. S. L. S. L. s. s. E. E. L. S E. E. c. Snider Gage, Robert C. Gam bee, Frederick L. Green, Wm. L. Guernsey, Stilln1an S. Ham, Geo S. Haggart, Edmund L. C. Hegeman, Harold J. Hinman, A. J. Hornsby, Allen C. Hotchkiss, II~ E. Burton E. Huggins, E. E. c. L. ;3. Robert M. Huntley, Irving Ketchum, Walter G. Kellog, Erwin E. La1npher, Johnstown. Waterloo. Albany. Broadalbin. Schenectady. Gloversville . N ewa.rk, N. J. Albany. Palrnyra. Potter. Salamanca. Amst~rdam. Schenectady. Ogdensburg. Lowville. E. S. E. Cornelius Wygant LockWQOd, Newburg. L. S. .s . E. c. s. c. s. s. c. . E. E. . c. '98. H. J. l\fange1·, Brooklyn. Schenectady. Glovers ville. :Brewster. Schenectady. Albany. Albany. Dunsville. Schenectady. West Hebron. Buffalo. Pulaski . Ed\V\rard Wi11ian1 Walker, Schenectady, Post Graduate in Cbemistry. A very pleasant Union College ca1np was located at Sodus Point during the summer. Those who were there included Hon. S. K. Williatns, one of the trustees, Charlie Fields, '93, William Allen, '95, A. E. Barnes, '95., Geo. Willinrlils, '97, Homer A. Cro.thers, '98, E. W. Sylvestet·, '98, C. A. llartnagle, '98, F. · W. Closs, \'98 and Purchase, '99· :~ . :,.\ '·'·'' .,.. ' •' ~· :• ' ' . . ~ ': ' .. J .·. ·:-_: .. ·,: .;· ·. ·;:. - ,.;·-. ~ ·-,' ' ' I I. I · .. ' ·: ; \ ! I· l I • '•,.'

' ·, :,.\ ' \• .,.. ' .'<, ' •' ~· ... ' ': ',' '• ·,: .;· - ,.;· . . . ; ~ . I. I · .. ' ·: ; \ ! I· l THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. · Ptof. Wright was at home tnost of the summer, UJ~ere tl]~ faealty 8p~l)t i51)eir Vaeahoqs. · but he spent a while on the Long Island coast The name and fame: of Union College entered . and up a 1 nong the Helderbergs, inhaling that distant places in '' far countvees ., last sumtner, refreshing atmosphere. for she was well represented both at hotne and And now Prof. Ashtnore went to Europe this abroad. While one ·member of her faculty . sumtner only to return again on a 1nt:sston not fished, another was clitnbing the 1\:fa:tterhorn, : Latin. His story is told in another column. and still another, perhaps, going over, with : Prof. Hofftnan almost devoted the entire schol~stic brain, the dreatny legends of the Rhine. ·. of the vacation months to his work in this city,. President Raytnond, after the excessive and • finally pennitting himse~f a week on the coast of ardous labors of commencelnent week, sought .. Maine, and a visit to the points of histone inter- recuperation for rnind and body on a slow Dutch •. est in and about Boston. ocean liner bound fo! Holland. After a few weeks : It is not with a bit of surprise that we learn in the Rhine country, a return was tnade and . of Prof. Pepper's stay in Spain. Never too old -vvork was resutned.. to add to that vast fund of knowledge that has Dean Ripton was so taken up with the new · n1ade him such a prominent figure in the history curriculurn, and work generally incident to an ·. of A.m·erican colieges, he has devoted the entire increased faculty, that he fo-und it impossible to · summer in the study of Spanish as the Spaniards' get away :for a long vacat·ion. He did allow · speak it, and all with a view of teaching it himself a week, and this was spent in Canada. here at Old Union. We all know what a delightful place Lake Prof. Patterson found so much work to do George is, and can fully appreciate the cotn- in local .circles that he could not get away, as pleteness of Pt·of. Lamareaux's sutntner at the did also Prof. Perkins. Prof. Landreth also Sagan1ore. spent mnch of his time in this city . Probably no one however enjoyed a n1ore P.rof. Edwards spent tnuch of his vacation on. pleasant and profitable vacation than did Prof. Peconic Bay near his home at Riverhead, L. I. Stoller, at the Cold Spring Harbor Sutnrner Prof. Whitemore spent a very quiet summer, School for teachers. Prof. Stoller was an his time being divided between his horne on. instructor in the Biological Labratory. The college hill, and those of his sons in the vicinity last week in August, however, he found titne to of New York. attend the ·convention of the American Associa- tion for the advancement of science, held at Springfield, Mass. Prof. Truax, accompanied by Mrs. Truax, took an extended trip abroad. They left itntnediately after the close· of college, taking the stean1er Westernland for Antwerp. From that point they visited rnany of the 1nost inter- · esting points in Switzerland, Holland, Gern1any, France, England and Scotland, returning the day that college opened. Prof. Wells. says he has been told n1any titnes to ''go to Halifax,'' so he tnade up his tnind to try it. While he was away he made an extended tour through Nova Scotia and the land of Evangeline. He also spent a titne on the coast of Maine and in Boston. His trip occupied about a month, and the rernainder of the titne he. spent o.n college hill. Prof. Winans enjoyed a very·pieasant sutntner at his former hotne in Gloversville, while Dr. Linhart played tennis and mapped out this year's work at Bolten Hill, just east of Hart- fort, Conn. Prof. Bennett wheeled all over Chicago and vicinity. This sutntner, Prof. Hale, apart fro1n a short stay in Rhode Island, devoted his attention and titne to Schenectady. Prof. Mosher found rest in Rochester, where he spent the entire summer. One who had unusual facilities this sun1m.er for a thoroughly enjoyable and profitable vaca- tion was Prof. Kenneth Mackenzie. Mr. JVIac- kenzie visited the Russias, and also toured Switzerland, Italy, Spain and France. Prof. Opdyke spent a quiet vacation at his Massachusettes home.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Prof. Buck was at Cape Cod and Nantucket · the satne class until the final selection of editor- for a tnonth's outing, and spent also a few days . in-chief and literary editor in Junior year. at Richfield Springs. . 8. Vacancies occurring shall. be filled by the Prof. Prosser put in an unusuaUy busy sum- •· committee in whose class the vacancy may n1er, being assistant geologist on the New York · occur, and at their discretion. geological survey under Prof. HaH, the State .• 9· 'The duHes of Hterary editor shall be as- geologist, being engaged on this work frotn the signed by the editor-in-chief. 1st of July to the opening of college. In con- ro. Compensation: The five n1en shaH •re- nection with the work, Prof. Prosser made a . ceive one copy each of the paper through Sopho- 1 arge and val uahle collection of rocks and fossil 1nore year ; the three men four copies each fonns, for use by the college. through Junior year:; business managers, four copi·es each from .the titne of their election; Editor-in-chief, $Ioo .;. Business manager, '$Ioo; [aws (QOI]trolliQg tl]e fn.aQaQe!me~I]t of. Literary Editor, '$5o, or pro rata up to tl1ese amounts, and 50 per cent. of all profits above these amounts, and in the same ratio. The retnaining 50 per cent. to be given to the athletic The attention of new students is called to the ·· association of the college, and no divisions to be following extract frotn the laws cont~oHing the .· made until the report of the Business Manager tuanagement of the THE CoNCORDIENSis, the shall be pvesented at the last college tneeting of selection of Editor-in-·Chief, and other .members •. the year, his accounts having first been audited of the editorial board. by a cotnmittee consisting of the president of EDITORIAL BOARD. 1. The selection of literary editors shall be by competition. 2. All Freshmen are eligible to the competi- • tion. 3· Registration of all competitot·s ,must be made with the edito•r-in-chief by D.ece,mber 1st, of Freshman year. 4· Original work will be t·equired frotn every competitor and special work under the direction · of the editor-in-chief. 5. On the basis of all work submitted, five men from among the competitors shall be selected before the following June, by a com- .mittee as hereinafter provided for. 6. The five men selected shall continue work as before, and, from among them, tlu~ee shall be selected before the next succeeding June to con- · tinue unttl January r st, of Junior year, at which · thne one shall be selected to act as senior editor- . in-chief, fl,nd one to act as senior literary editor .. 7. All these selections shall b~ 1nade by a cotnmittee. .t. very comtnittee shall consist of three members-.the editor-in-chief, the literary editor and a metnber of the faculty. The mem- . ~ ber from the faculty shall continue in office over the Senior, Junior and Sophomore classes, members ex-officio of the comn1ittee. UQiOQ'S Tax Qu~stioQ Settled. We take the following ·clipping from the New York Times of Sept. I I : '' City T.reasurer Knapp, of Long Island City, to-day straightened out the back taxes due the city from Union CoUege. The last Legislature passed a bill that virtually makes the State pay the taxes for the college. There was due the city $rso,z68.72, and at a tneetingof the Queens County Board of Supervisors, held to-day, County Treasurer Dykes reported that the matter was ready for settlement. \Long Island City owed $roo,ooo of taxes up to r8g4, and $72,ooo for 1894· It was arranged that the county should give the city credit for the $101 ,ooo and :that c;ity Treasurer Knapp should pay the other a1nount out of the city treasury. The at·rangement leaves the city with a balance due from the county that will be passed upon when the next levy is made. The State comptroller ha.s already given Queens County credit for the entire an1ount.\ '\ ·,· '' ·,· ': ' ' ... ·· . . ,' . ' ' . : .. :~ > . . . ' . i, .· ,• ,. l . 1 I I I, .

'\ ·,· ,' ' ,.·' ·,:: '. ···.·: ·.,\~ .. ·, ., ' ,· . - / ~- . . :, rr·. THE OONCORDIENSIS .. 9 :poot-BaU prospe<:ts for 5easol] of :1895· seasons of '90, '9r and '92. in coaching he follows the general style of the Pennsylvania The prospects for a good foot-ball team this • game and insists upon t!ard vigorous playing season are good notwithstanding the fact that . for ,every tnan on the teatn. His greatest seve tal of our best players of last season will not a·nxiety is in the work of:gettiRg out the '' scrub\ !be with us. Many new 1nen have entert-ed and , which as we all l\now is essential to the success atnong the1n is sotne excellent rnaterial. Lyon, of any foot-ball tearn ~ no ,matter hQW good the who entered with '98, is back again and will . individual p:I:ayers or how good H1e coaching. ce:rtaJ!nly do good work at fllll back. Peters, It is the duty of every 1 man who can to come '96, who needs no introduction to Union CoHege · out on the field an.d help lbe i' scrub\ and by so n 1 e:n., will probably play behind the line. doing strengthen the \ 'varsity\ :for the early M~ers, '96, wiU back the line as usual. Hayes, games. a new tnan,. who has had four years experience, Ex-Capt. E'rown is back coa:cl1ing. If the hav-ing played two years on Fordhatn, n1ay · enthusias1n which charact.erizes\ Father Brown\ find a ;place behind the line. Sn1ith, '99, and • could by sor:ne ffi{\'ans be transferred to the Sonuner, '96, at-e trying for quarter, and not- ·. players 0 ~ this season's 'varsity, we could have wi;thstandin.·g their Hgbt weight may do .good h t t f tl t t e .s a1· · ea1n o. , 1e counH!y. w~rk in that position. 'Capt. Beckwiith is doittg all he can to raise 'J'he line will no:t be as heavy as last year 'but ·. the standard of each man's playing as well as the new styie of play will not require weight so that of the tean:l in generaL lTIUCh as activity. The center will be held The schedui]ie of games as it stands at present down by the invincible ''Pop\ Sweetland, '97, is as follows: wh.o has in past yea,rs added so 1nuch glory to Un ... ion's kickers. The guards are uncertain. '' Big'' Sweet, who played right guard last year is sadly tnissed but we have both Terry, '96, and Willis, '97, to pick frotn. Taylor, '96., a new rnan, who has captained a Kansas university team, is an experienced player and with McM:illen, '98, we need not fear a weak left guard. Both Capt. Beckwith, '96, and Paltner, · '97., are back in their old places at tackre .. Booklh out, '97, and Beardsly, '99, are trying · for Palmer's place at tackle, who as yet is a . trifle slow but tnay wake up before the season · is over. Mallery,. '96, is again on right end, · while Barry, '99, and Jones, '98, are trying for Hildner's place at left end. Hildner, who was · compelled to give up the place on account ofill . heaith:, wilL coacll them. 'I' here are a large number of men \'rho will do excellent work on tl1e \ scrub\ and in case of rfecessity may be used to good advantage on the · \ 'vat•sity .\ Among the1n is Hilton, '96, Cotton, '9\7 Mallery, '97, McLean, '99, Humphrey, '98, Crichton, '98, Lord, '99, Miller, '99, Thomas, '98, McKee, '99, and Price, '99· Our coach, Mr. E. M. Church, was captain ·Of the University of Pennsylvania's teatn fat· the Sept. 28-R:tdgefie'ld at .Scheiil:ectady· Oct. 5-Yale at Albany. Oct.12-Middlebury at Schenectady. Oct.l9-A:m.herst at Albany-. Oct. 23-Prineeton at Princeton. Oct. 26-Renssalaer PolytecJmic Instit11tte at Schenectady. Oct. So-Ridgefield at Alban-y. Nov:. 2-Dartmouthat Manc1l.ester, N. H. Nov. 9-Wtllia.ms at Albany. Nov. 16-West Point at We~;t Point. Nov. 23-Wesleyan at Albany. 8opl]omore-Fr~sl]mary Scrap. The annual salting ()£ the Freshmen and the cane rush took place on the ca111pus Friday afternoon. The Sophom()re gathered up the salt that they had received a year ago, added to it a few pouncs purchased for the occasion by a Freshtnan, .and waited outside the laboratory for the new ,cla&s to appear. The Fresh1nen had adopted assiogan of war,\ zigger one, zigger two, zigger zagger zan ! '99, '99, lick us if you can ! And with this yell rushed into the conflict. Salt flew in the ail· and it was difficult to see who was .salted most. A ball club was then procured and for fifteen 1ninutes the two classes strove for its possession. The Sopho.morcs were found to be in the n1ajority and were awarded the vic tory.

10 THE OONCORDIENS!S. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED ON ALTERN ATE WEDNES,DAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR By THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF JJ])ITORS: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '-96, Editor-in-Chief. WALTER L HUGGINS, '96, - Business Manager. WILLIAM H. HALL, '96, Literary Edi,tor. EDW .ARD E. DRAPER, Asst. Business l\.fanager. WILLIAM F. CHERRY, '97,, } F. PACKARD PALMER, '97, . Assistant Edit-,ors. HUEBELL RoBINSON, '9:7, . 0ARLHAMME~~8,~, WILLIAM B. REEpJO '98 , Reportorial Staff. P. P. SHEEHAN, 98, TERMS, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. :SINGLE CoPIES, .. 15 CENTS. Address all communications to 'I' HE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRIPfFER AND BINDER, SCHENEC\fADY N.Y. S'r'UDENTS, ATTENTION! THE CoNCORDIENSIS aims to boon1 ''Old Union.\ PATRONIZE} our advertisers! It will pay you in . the end. DoN'T forget that THiE CoNCORDl~~NSIS belongs to the college, not to the editors. IF ANY one knows any alun1ni news, no 1natte17 · ofwhatkind, will he be so kind as to furnish Hswith it? We want to be at the front in this line as weU as in all others. The alumni are the life of the college, and they ought to receive their sha1·e. EVERY rnan in college :should patronize our advertisers. We have secured an excellent list of business houses in all lines of trade, botp iu this city and adjacent ones, and we can recom-- mend then~ as always reliable. If it were not fo~ · our advertisers our paper could not exist, so sho\r your appreciation and patronize then1·, for in assisting thein you in the end help the coBege. IN OUR next and following issues we intend to A copy of tbe fi,rst number of TBE CON COR· devote space to news from all the other depart- DIENSISwillbemailedtoeverymanincollege. · ments of the University. We believe thatthere If you do not wish the paper continued, please • ought to be a closer relationRhip between all the notify the Business Manager to tha,t effect. Un- . departn1ents, and we hope in this. way to ht\ing less we are advised to the contrary, we shall it about to souw degree. The students at present place the names of all students upon our .sub- in one departntent never- know what is going on scription list, and eall upon them for the .sub- •. in another; but J ereafter we hope to be .able to scription price of' two dollars. Send all changes · supply then1 with that inforrnation. of address to the Business Manager. BOX 213. TO THE ALUMNI .. THE CONCORDtENSIS will be continued to all of last year's subscribers unless it is ordered discontinued. If any chang-e of a.ddress is de- sired, please notify the Business Ma.aager. BOX. 213. Schenectady, N. Y. WE AIM to be better next tinte. WHA:T do you think of our new dress? WE ARE always ready for suggestions. l:B.., YOU don't see what you want, ask for it. SUBSCRIBE for THE CONCORDIENSIS. Don't borrow your cbun1's. WITH this number of THE CONCORDIENSIS begins its nineteenth year of existence. In accord with the advances that are being made by the college we are striving to keep up the sa1ne pace. \Vhether we are doing it or not we leave fo1· you to decide. This is the first board that has been under the I'Ules that now govern the Inanagement of THE CONCORDIENSIS, and those laws will be carried out to the letter. vVe think they are good ones, and as the paper now declares a dividend for athletics after the office~s of the paper have been paid, we see no reason why every man in college should not support it. It is a college organ,. and an organ that can do the college a vast amou.ut of good if it receives the hearty support of all the students. We have no doubt but what it will, for we think Union College men \1\:now a good thing when they see it.\ I . •.-·'. . :·, ... '1. ',_,'. . . -~. : ' \ .•. ·· ;· ~ ., 'I t · .• ' > ' . • _4 ..

I . .. •'· ;·, ··-· . ... _.·;:,· ·:,,:. -, ... .. ·,- .. ; t t ' '' : ' I ~ .. 4'· . rHE OONO'ORDIENSIS. 11 IN ANOTHER coluntn n 1 ay be ]oulild an extract many as that of last, is eoinposed of 111en that fronl the laws .governing the ntanagement of TBE have con1e to college to stay. The nUinber could CoNCORDIENSIS. AU Freshrneu who jntend to easily have been made Inuch larger, but President take up journalis 1 n as a profession, or are any way Raymond is determined to hold to his present interested in literary -work, should avail them- poHcy, kno·wing in the end that it will be best for selves of the opportunity that is offered and begin .· the eollege. Many rnen were turned away owing their work in the contpetition at (i)nce. The value to a lack of preparation, and it is far better that that one gains through ~experience on a coDege they should go now than later. The policy is journal is great, and one's success is in. proportion sureily a good one, and while the nun1her of the to the interest that he takes b1 his. -worlt. We entering classes n1ay for a while be s1naller than since1·ely hope that the number of competitors ·. usHal', the college cannot help in the end receiving this year may far outnuinber tba.t of any former . a great advantage from it. yeat•. Tli~J prospects for athletics at 1Jnion were never EVERY man in ~college should support the, brirgbter than to-day. Men have entered college foot-ball team in one way or another. If. YO?- , . that have already made names for thernselves as don't think you can play, get out and try, and lf : athletes, and who are ready to uphold the honor you find that you can't, then get out and yell. :; of the college on all occasions. The foot-ball teain Show your enthusiasm in son1e wa.y, and show the : is at its work, and work that counts, every day, men on the tean1 that you appreciate what they ! • and. Ooach Church says that he has good reasons are doing for the college. Captain Beckwith says to believe that he can develop a strong team out that he cannot get out a good second ·eleven. H'e of the n 1 aterial on hand. The team is doing its ought to be able to say that he ca,nnot use aH the : best· and while we lose several of our strongest men on the field. Out of 250 n1en i!t is a shame , and 'most reliable players,. there are lots of nevv that the 'varsity can.not get~ scr11:b to give thein i n: 1 en to step into their places. As a coach, Mr. practice, and they need it badly enoug~. Some 1 Church goes about his work with a viin and of the men on the team, too, seer..n to think that : dete~Inination that shows he is there for business. ·hard trainin~ is not necessary. ~t is as necessary : He is doing the team a wonderful a1nount of good, as the practice, and no 1nan on the tea111 should . and the manageu 1 ent is to be congratulated on iose sight of that. Now hereafte:t· 1et us show our · securinO' such a man. foot-ball enthusiasm. We have some larg~ games · The base-ball outlook seems to be far brighter on hand, and we 1nust ~ake a go()d showing, for :• than it has for the past few years. 'rhe candidates our honor depends on It. Let as have a good :, have been on the field practicing for a few days scrub out every ?ay,. and let us h~ve a ,· past, and there are n1any new men that are show- crowd on the field w1~h It ~o see tlle practice and · ing up in fine forn1. There are severalinen trying encourag~ the teanl In this way. , 'Ve cannot e~- J for each position, and after a sharp competition pect a good .team unless the e()liege body Will : which will arise fro1n this, a better tean1 ought to enthuse oyer It. • be on the diatnond next spring than we have ever . • had before. Track athletics, too, are on the advance. The UNION COLLEGE has begun her new century · rapid strides Union has taken in this direction in and with it comes many changes. The greatest, ,~ .the past seem not to slacken. Nearly all of last perhaps, and certainly the one which will attract year's team have returned to college, and Inany the rr1ost attention, is that of raising the entrance ', new n1en are showing up Kilpatrick, the record standard. Heretofore a man coald easily enter . · breaker, and Sands will both be back, and Union, but it was hard for him to stay unless : \Tommy\ Conneff, the world's champion long thoroughly pt·epared. As a result, large classes , distance man, will also be with then1. \Vith such would enter, but smaller ones graduate. The ,. a trio and the other second class Inen, Union need trustees and faculty have, howe-ver, taken the have no fear but what her colors will be borne to stand that unless a man can p.ass his entrance ·· the :f:l\ont on the track and field. examinations un~onditioned, thus showing that . · he has a thorough preparation~ he will not be allowed to register. This bars out all the class ' that has been known as eclectics. The class this year, while not nu1nbering as G. W. Spiegel, '98, acted as one of the · bicycle 1narshals at the Saratoga floral parade.

12 THE CONCORD1ENSIS. '95. Lipes, '98, enters the Medical this fall. \Shortie\ Bowers is hack as big as ever. A nun1her of Union :tnen spent the summer tll'~:ere tt)~ ~el]t~:I]I]ial :CJass is Cocat~d. at Lake George, W. Allen is reading law in the office of Bacon, Prof. Prosser took a class in field geology to B;d:ggs, Beckley & :Bissell, at Rochester. Hofiinans on Friday. A. E' . .Barnes has been appointed principal of H. C. Todd, '97, was on tih.e ball con1mittee the school at Palatine Bridge N. Y. at the Saratoga floral fete. 'T·. F. B'ayles enters the Presbyterian Theologi- M. H. Strong, '96, spent several weeks on cal:Sem:inaryat New B~·u.nswick; N.J. Lake George last sumtner. W. G. Brown is reading law with Ward & W. A. Catnpbell, '96, spent the sumn1er at· Cameron .at Albany. He will enter the Albany the Sagan1ore, Lake George. ·· Law :School when it opens. Pershing, '97, spent .a part of his vacation at · his horne in Cleveland, 0 luio. l. M.. C'ass will take the theological course at :Boston University. Mensuration is a new subject that Freshmen • Engineers will study this year. Wn1. I-I. Hall has spent the .sun11ner studying ' at his ho1ne in Kalatnazoo, Mich. S. B. Brown, '97, is s·tudying law at Glovers- . ville, and will not return to 'College. · R. B. Beattie has assisted in the First National • Bank of Middletown the past sutntner. Streeter, '95, Perkins, '94 and Brown, '95, have been spending several days on the hill. G. M. Schofield, '96, has a good engineering position in Ohio, and wiH not return to college. H .. ·Olen1,ents has entered Auburn 'Theological Serninary. Clarke Day is studying law at .Albany. H. R. Dwight will probably take P. G. work at Johns Hopkins. G-. A. Johnston is in business with his father at Paiatine Bridge. J. Y. Lavery follows up his engineering work in · West Virginia. liGward Pernberton, 2d, remains in .Albany studying law. H. M. Pollock, accompanied by a fair daughter of Cobleskill as his bride, wiB continue his studies Failing, '98, held a position in the city · engineers' office, Syracuse, during the sumtner. W. J. Sotnmer and :George Jones have reported for Bufralo papers during the vacation. · in G-ern1any for two years. Dexter Hunter, ex-'98, now a member of the class of '99, at Harvard, has been visiting friends on the hill for the past week. C. V. Kirby, ex- '97, has been admitted to the Art Students' League of New York, and will enter next tnonth. E. Pildain, '96, has been. spending the sutn- tner in the city, but n1aJe sotne short visits to Lake George and New Y o1·k. E. A. Somtner has been working for the · \Vhite-Crosby Construction Cotnpany in build- ing an electric road frotn Buffalo to Niagara. A. S. Derby, '96, spent a few weeks before returning to college on the coast of North Carolina, on a fishing and hunting expedition. '' Totn1ny \ Cregan, '98, has played with the Richfield Springs base-ball team the past sumtner and has added renown to Union's name. At the dedication of the Second Refonned Church at Rotterdatn, on Monday, Prof. Hoff- man delivered a sennon on ''Why Study the Bible?\ W. J. Sanderson attends Auburn Theological Sem:in~ry. George Streeter takes a course in Inedicine at Johns Hopkins. John N. D. Y edder is at home. He .expects to ente1~ Harvard next year. W. E. Walker returns for P. G. work at Union. Or1nan West enters Drew Theological Se1ninary, Madison, N.J. C. W. Crannell is on a, visit to New Yot\k and Long Island. J. A. Collins is at Auburn Theological Seminary. F. N. Eames is teaehing English, Latin and Zoology in York Collegiate Institute, York, Pa. M. R. Skinner has entered the Unive1·sity of Pennsylvania Medical College. S. W. Skinner is studying law with Randall & Huyck, at LeRoy, N. Y. S. L. Vossler is working as draughtsman in the General Electric Works. A. D. Bissell is in the law office of his father and grandfather. '. '· r ' . 'r ,• ,•\ : ·,\ .. ·,, ',• .... \ . \ ' ... · . ·. . .- ·~' . ' '';, ' .· ·-. ·: ' . ., . ' . ; '·:·;.', ~-·· .. ~}

'· r ' . . , ,··:··' ,'··.· : ·,\ . . ·,, ',• \ '\ ,, . . '';, ' .· ·-. ' . ' . i . ' ·.: ; \' -,. ·_ ..j '·:· ,:.'. ~-·· .. ~} THE CONCORDJENSIS. 13 A. 8p€ncer is in New Yolk teaching an evening . :UNION\ A·.T· r:a •. · E·· 'Ni,·T'E• .·. R·N' ·AT·· ·I···~N' .AL! G·A· uE·s· .. school :and reading law. . . . . . . l · . U . IU M. Ayra:utlt is in business with his fath.er at ·· Tonawanda . C. Ba:nnis,ter is at horne. B. ·o~. Blilrgin is· teaching school at Lowville. I:saae H~arbey is entployed in New York City. ·· Chas. KHpatri:ck Wins the Half-Mile Run in 1 Minute, 53 ·2-5 Seconds, Breaking the World's R.e·cond by One Second. B. Howard, after a season at base-bail, takes up· · thestudyof law at HornellsviHe. ·. L. I. :Lane takes a medical course at the Uni- · versity of Pe!Flnsy lvania. F. v:an :der Eogert is studying 1nedicine at the . UniV'e11si1ty of Pennsylvania. W. li. Wright is assistant chemist .at the General: . Electric Works. R. H. Potter has entered Yale Divinity Schoot. W. McEwan is in his fathe1·'s office at A.lbany. D. B. Eldridge is at home. E. Shalders has returned to Brazil. W. L. :Sawyer is studying :faw at Sandy Hill . F. Klein is in Gloversville. L. :0:, ·Guernsey is teaching school at Griffin's Corners, ::N. Y. The ladies of Saratoga, in July, gave what they eaHed a ''College Tea\ for the benefit of the Saratoga hospitaL Convention hall is -vvhere it was held and the idea was a novel one. The whole floor of the hall was filled with small tables decorated with the colors of a sepera te college and waited on by young ladies also dt:essed in the same colors. There one could buy ice creatn and other refreshtnents and meet his college tnates. During the evening a continuous high class vaudeville perfonnance was carried on, and the whole affair was a very enjoyable one. The Union table was taken care of by two of Saratoga's fairest daughters, Miss Varney and Miss '\tV alb ridge, and they made every Union man feel thoroughly at hotne. Saratoga con- tains ·many Union alun1ni and they turned out in good ntnnbers. They, together with the Saratoga undergraduates and several Union visitors, showed up Union at her best, and none of the other colleges could boast of a larger r~presentation. Never befo1~e in the h~story of athletics has there been so much interest centered around a set of games as those which took place on Sept. zt, between the London A .. C. and the New York A. C., for it was really 'Great Britain against Arnerica. .. 'The enthusias1n at Union was naturally great, for two of her undergraduates took part in those gatnes, and won laurels for her that every col- lege in H~e country can with good reason envy. The New York Athletic Club won out of the eleven events all the first places and six of the seconds. Four new world's records were tnade and one equaled. Of course the new record that was established by Kilpatrick in the half- tnile run interests Union ·m.en rnore than the others .. The New York A. C. people had said but little about Kilpatrick in the papers, but they had been thinking just the same, and they kne\v the record was in danger. He ran a great Tace, and he has won a place in the hearts of all Atnerican athletes. A description of the race as taken from the New York World will show how it was run and won : '' The first event, the half-mile run, n1eant tnuch, for it was one of the events which was most in doubt. ''A cheer went up for Kilpatrick, for the Atnericans depended upon hin1 to defeat the Cambridge crack, FrederickS. Horan, a shorter, stockier man. The long, loose-jointed Kil- patrick worked his liberal n1uscles and shook his brown, curly hair. His trunks and shirt, like those of all the New York Athletic Club 1nen; were ttitnmed with red bands. The English111~n wore narrow black bands. ''The officials gathered about the start; and the tnen arranged then1selv~s. A. A. Jordan, the starter, stood behind then1. The whistle was blown, and the runners made ready. They •

14 THE CONOORDIENSIS. went away easily, Lyons setting the pace, and Lew in, the other London man, going up and down in the air in a fussy way. '' The runners tnoved around the track with long strides, landing ligl1:tly on their toes. The crowd wat~hed their every tnovement. 'They waited for Kilpatrick to 1nake his showing, to cut out and see what he ,could do. ''It vvas on the second time around that his knees came up higher, his toes reached out further. In :four jutnps he was <~head, and then sweeping along, ~covering many feet with every stride. Horan started after hirn, and Kilpatrick shook his curies out of his eves and went the £1.ster. '' And then came a roar. It broke from thousands upon thousands of throats at the sam~e instant. The pent-up enthusiasm and excite- rnent had its first outlet, the Am~erican eagle had its first chance to screatn and give a sharp wrench to the tail of its ancient enemy. For in the space of a few seconds they saw that Kil- patrick had the race won, and that he would rotnp holTI>e, so easily had his big legs carried hin1 forward. And when he snapped the red cord across the line from four sides, another shout went up, a voicing of joy and triumph. On the fields a score of hats went into the air. ,,, They caught Kilpatrick as he crossed the line. Two men supported hitn and went litnp- ing tu the club-house as if he had broken both legs. They cheered hi1n as he walked, and they cheered Horan, too, especially the English people, hut he shook his head wofully. And then the An1ericans cheet~ed him, for they were sorry and they liked his effort. '95 'TO THE FRONT. Union College ~tnen have distinguished the.tn- . selves in n1any :noble and daring deeds, and • some of them have a1so had hair-breadth escapes, but as yet I have been unable to find anything •. in the annals of the college that :ean equal a per- f6n11'ance by one of tbe class of '95. 1 was on · the scene of action only shortly after it occurred, . and can vouch :for the veracity of the account which 1 take from the Albany Evenlng ·. Jot./-rnal. It is as foHows : A WOMAN''s SHRIEK SAVED HIM. ''A form·er Albanian, Townsend H. Fellows, has had an experience that be will remetnber · should he arrive at the age ofMethuselah. His splendid baritone voice has made hiln famous . ·at his new ho1ne, New York, and this season · he has been stopping at the Tetnple Grove Setninary, Saratoga Springs, which is a hotel · in the summer. Tlile night clerk is a graduate , of Union College, a native of Brazil and an ex- ceedingly intelligent and agreeable gentleman. •• Since the Puritanical crusade again-st cards and .·such things, singularly enough, there has been a sot·t of sporadic epidetnic of petty crimes, such as sneak-thieving, in the village. The man from Brazil was not to be caught . at a disadvantage, a~nd supplied himself with a self-cocking, quick-action revolver. In the hours of the night or tnorning, comtnonly denon1inated by the Scottish bards as •' stna,\ he was accustotned to catch forty winks or tnore on a comfortable lounge in the office, and now comes in the blood-curdling episode in the life of Albany's great baritone, Townsend H. Fel- lows. It so happened that on a certain night '' And when the titne went up on the board and the crovvd saw that the American chatnpion had broken a \\\-Torld's record, held bv an ·Oxford 1nan and made as far back as 1888, the splendid enthusiasm broke forth again. Long Kilpatrick had lowered that record a full second, making the run in r n1in. 53 2-5 sec., and placing the .A rnerican record of the once peerless Walter Dolun further in the shade. And the loyal qnes felt that it was in truth a ·vi,ctory which would be talked of for years to corn e.\ · last week, about 2 A. M., Mrs. Fellovvs was seized with a sudden and very acute attack of dyspeps:ia, and '' Town \ hastily donned his Geo. Sands also represented the Atnericans in the q uarter-tnile iun, but he was running under orders to help the other American, Burke, finish a winner, so of course he was not placed, although he ran a plucky race. · clothes and hied him down stairs to the office · to get sotne tnedic:ine. Here he found the amiable Brazilian on the lounge, fast asleep, with his revolver in his hand and his finger on the hair trigger. Mr. Fellows had seen this shooting iron before and knew of its quick- firing propensities. l-Ie therefore hesitated to I I t ;,. i . L . ' ;., . •·: ~·.:· ' \- :· ~· ., •' '. . J •. . ' ' ~ r . - :. ·< ·, ·. . .c·' .•· ! I I .. ! • I ~. I ,

I I t ' ;., ~ : . ' . ·. '··,' •' ,·.· . •·: ~·.:· . \- '• ~· _., .. '. . , ' ~ r . - . : • .. ~ .. .c·' .•· ! t . ,, I. .·. ! • I ~. r , THE CONOORDIENSIS. 15 RE.AD THE ADVERTISE'MEN'TS. IT WILL PAY YOU. YALE MIX:TURE SMOKING TOBA,C:CO ,Uneqnall:e~d fo~ De:lioacg and Fl'avoii. M;ade in two strengths,, -----~~----- awake the sleeper too suddenly. He stepped into the corridor and called out loudly. 1\his he did several tirnes, and then the BraziUan arose, and with revolver in hand advanced on the baritone and ,only stopped when the tnuzzle of the weapon covered his heart. Townsend H.. then began an oration in gentle tones of ~expostulation, but not a word in response passed the lips ofthe youth of South Amierica, and in lieu thereof he only uttered an inarticulate sound, something like '' huk. '' Then there followed a fevv ntore flights of vocalization with sitnilat: results. There was vacancv in the eve ... .... of the tnan with the gun, and with feeling of horror Mr. Fellows discovered that the clerk YALE MIXTURE is now packed in two blends, • one of which contains less St. James Parish Peri- que and u1ore Tt;trkis1l a~d R ~':ana, thus reducing the strength without nnpa.Iring the flavor or 1 T' th t \ T d aroma. 'The boxes containing this blend have the was as eep. 0 say ··· a· · · ownsen · was word '' MJLD·\ printed across the top. 'Tbe origi- ·. scared \ would be to put it mild. The hairs of nal blend rmnains unchanged. . his light chestnut locks stood on ends like quills A two ounce trial package by mail, postpaid, for 25 cents. MA.RBURG BROS •. ,. upon the fretful porcupine, and if his blood was not frozen in his veins, it took on a particularly chilly temperature. Shouid the n1an awake Th.e America.n Tobacco Co., Successor, · suddenly, he thought, the baritone would Baltimore, Md. UNION COLLEGE ~ ~I BOOK EXCHANGE 3 3 :::t.::r- s. s. c. .COLLEGE TEXTS BOTH NEW AID ,OLD · c;;.ALS0-:.....9 ·DRAWtNG IN81'RUMENT8 A.ND MATERIALS, 1'AB'LE'T8,, FOUNTAIN PENS, PENGI LS, lN FAG'T ~E1lell}'tltin~ a ~tudeilt ]'!eeds*- IN HIS WORK. COODS AT LOWEST PRICES. A. B. VOSSLER, '96. H. N ELlS, '98 speedily join the Heavenly choir or assist in the Miserere of those in the Mephistophelian dominions. Then there was heard a sharp and decidedly COAL. !ifr ~COAL. BVY YOUR GOAL OF * W. P. GARNSEY, Office, 433 State Street. Yard, 229 Park Place. --~--~ ~COAL. OOAL. ~ VAN B. WHEATON,-=======:::\ PHOI'OG RAPHE R, CLASS, f PHOTOS FACULTY ! . • FRATERN,ITY, ~.1 <V . ,....,~~ ltudio, lag ltreet. mateur lupplie6 and lrinting.

16 THE ·ooNCORDIENSIS. ====================~======~-~- =================================================== GIYE Y 1 0UR PATRONAGE 'fO 'THOSE WHO ARE INTEREST'ED IN UNION. ':::E;aJ:o~:a:~·OND Straight- 01..1.t No. ·Oi.:ga:~:ettes. 1 fe1ninine shriek, and the clerk frotn the land of beetles awoke. His pistol dropped to the floor and Townsend H. Fellows dropped into a chair, saved l The housekeeper had heard the sound of a voice, a rich Berlin-trained baritone voice, in plainti\'e plea,. and arriving on the scene of a possible tragedy, let out, in horrot, a spasmodic high. C note, and so it was that tnusic saved to · the world the corning leading baritone of Atnerica .. \ A RUMOR. Of eonrse only rumors and conflicting reports are· afloat; but at the same tin1e eYery one knows there is fact at the botton1.. And with the fact is also a very pretty little romance, for Cigarette Smokers who are wiHing to pay a Httle more than the \t 1h t f £' It } 1' 'd 1 t price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes. will find THIS BRAND . 1 See rns t. a OH e 0 OUr 1acu .· y ·1as O'eC 1 ec :o superior to an others. take a vacation of a year in Europe. But These cigarettes are m<!de from the brightest, most delicately flavored · b and highest cost Hold Leaf grawn in Virginia. This is the Old and · · efore going he participated in the cotnnlence- Original BI·and ofStl·aig·ht Cut Cigarettes, and was brought nut ment festivities, and there met a charming by us in the year I875. BEWARE OF' IMITATIONS, and observe that the .firm young lady frotn Troy. :Qf course he enjoyed na1ne as beiow, is on every vackage. 1 1 1 · d d 1 1er company very tnHc 1; so great y rn ee t~at ALLiE.~N & GINTER, he felt he would be content to live forever \Vith Th A .. T b c· her. Therefore, about the titne of sailing for . e ·. ffieiiCan · 0' · aCCO ·•· ·011lpany, ·. Europe he wrote a little note te1ling her his love; Successor., Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~~~ CITY ~~ TROU.SERS ~r, CO., ~----E_._F~·-D_A_L_Y_. ___ ~,. , FfHe CuSTon' TAliloRIN<i. Suits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4 tT:p. Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a postal ca1·d ,a,:nd o-ar representati-ve ( U. E. HENNESY) will call. 149 80. 8:ENTRE STREET. Next door to Barhydt II ous~. and w'hat was his ffi!()St extreme joy to receive · a cablegrarn saying he was accepted. ·Of course nothing would do but the professor tnust hie himself horne and ~ee to his future happiness. And that happiness we understand js soon to be realized Of cotuse this is only \what they s.ay ,\ but then we wish the gre.atest possible joy to the professor. W. A. Johnston, ex-'95, Arthur Peters, ex-'96 and Boss, ex-'97, who le~t college last year thr~ough sickness have returned, and will enter respectively '96, '97 and '98. Jatnes E. Kelly, '96, will not return to college, he having received a good engineering position at Tuxtla._;Gutierreg, State of Chiponas, lV: exico, where he will in the future make his hotne. ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,·~ FURMITURE liD BEDDiiNG -~ ALL~NDS £. FOR ® STUDEITS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. 30~ ST..A.TE Sr:t\::SEE'r. > ',. _.;: . ; . ·:.,,·; I; .. l.'.·. ''' '' .' . ·.,.

r I; .. ;.-.·. l.' •',-;;'-• '' .' . ·., : _·_,', THE ·OONCORDIENSIS. 17 ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR ADVERTISERS. September 16, 1895. Our stock £o;r Fall and Winter 1895-'9'6· is now ready in an departments .. . ., It will, we believe, be found fully up to the .standard. Brooks Brothers, Broadvvay, cor. ·22'd St., New York City. CLOTHING AND FURNISH- ) ING GOODS, READY -MADE 't AND MADE TO MEASURE. J . - - - - . -••••••••••••••••••••••oooooooooooooooooooooouoooooo••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••Uo•Uo•ooooooooonoooooooo•o~ooooooooooooooooooouooo••••••­ o,.oooooou•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••oo-•u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••u•-••••••••••••••• -·- ........ -- .............. - .. --- .............. - .... -- --- ........ ---- .. --- .. - ...... -- --- .............. ----- -- .. - --·- -- ........ ,. .... - ...... -------- ...... ----- ------- .. ----------- ................................... ~ .............................................. ;;·······--·-- .. ·-·············u•u••-····································· .. - - - - 129 W A.LL S'J;.'., Opp. Post Office, The largestand finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. A CoLLEGE EDucATION Is very helpful to a YOUNG MAN and should 'b.eobtained when possible. GENT's FURNISHING GooDs Are what you must have (and perfect fitting ones too) in order to make ~ your .stay at Old lf nion pleasant and satis- . factory. H. S. BARNEY & CO. have Shirts, Collar-s, Cuffs, Umbrellas, etc. Everything in fact, in Gent's Furnishing line at the Lowest Prices. •>+<• H. S. BARNEY ,&:CO. The following attractions will appear at the Van Curler Opera House on the dates n1entioned. Tuesday, Oct. 1-The great n1agician, Herr- inann in a marvelous entertain1nent, assisted by ' . Mn1e. Herrn1ann in beautiful dances. . Thursday, Oct. 3-· J an1es A Hearne's beautiful ·. play '' Shore .Acres.\ Superbly sta;ged and Inag- nificently acted . Saturday, Oct. 5-:Matinee and night, Jefferson, Klaw and Erlanger's mamn1oth indoor entertain- ment, '' The Country Circus.\ Tuesday, Oct. 8-The greatest of aU co1nic ·. operas, \ Wang.'' Wednesday, Oct. 9-· ''The Silver King.\ Thursday and Friday, Oct. 10 and 11-1\:forri- son's \Faust.\ Monday, Oct. 14-· ., ''Twelve Temptations.\ ~·UJ ~ '-2 EMPIRE STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 JAY STREET, VvALTER & HEDDEN, Props. .. Students' $i) pf'r term, strictly ) ) J in ad vance. ~ I. H·OUGH, 313 STATE ST. EVERYTHING IN 'l 1 HE LINE OF NU~]\llJFU~E, BEDDING, Cfi~PEJFS, GU~JF;RI]\1S, EJFC. SPECIAL PUICES WILL BE . . . . . . . . . • . QUOTED TO STUDENT~::'' TRADE.

18 -- ADVERTISEMENTS. -------- cc; 0 .~ ~ ~ .b 0 z H 0 ~ w ~ ·~ ·~ ~ ~· ~ tr1 r ~ ~ 0 .t-rj [/) ~ (j) ~ 0 0 ~ I. LEVINE, Van Curler Opera House Block LOWEST PRICES. c ~~ ~lf A Y\LE & SON, 0 J . ~ * E.!i<iRJIVE~~, * ·~ ~ .. \ ...---ALBANY, N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dressing · Opp . .Edison Hotel (up sta!frs.) 'U'SE A. SOHMID'r'S SANDERS'§·~· ~~.:.....2> ·. @~~- Detection and Correction ef · '@:) . Visual Imperfectiens .... EYES EXAMINED F·REE. Prescriptions Accurately Filled. Our Repair Dept. is ·Complete. 233 S'fA'T'E S'f., SGHENEC'fADY. N.Y. BARHYTE & DEVENPECIC, . • . . , . Wholesale and Retail Dealers in ee}lL -:- JINB -:- Weon Coal, Lime, Cement, Plaster, ~ir, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. CTARR, -~r-~----_ ARTISTIC L459~ DtiOTOQR~VHER. STATE STREET. 1.::...:.:, Finest • in *the *City. NEV.DISCOVRY FDI THE !Ail. . -+~one\'e Wo11 .. r.!:iTten F'11ompt r.rttsntion.·*- A certain c\J.re for Dandruff, Scalp ~ ~ ~ •L •L and Skin Diseases. P·revents falling of the hair. PHOTO(}l{APHIC s UPPI_JIES ... I Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of L-eading Makes of ..... ~am~ras, Dry plat~g aQd ~ard ~toe~ At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. Successor to J. N. ;McDonald. WILSON DAVIS, .... MER~ CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544 D~·oadway, Albany, N. Y 237 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N. Y. . ' ' . . '· . . ~- ' 1 ; . ~ ... ' ..

