Trin G®NG®RDIBNSIS. VoL. XIX. UNIO,N O~OLLEGE, JULY 1, 189·6. No. 18. THE RATIONAL ENDS OF THE STAT'S. and ()flaw, and having attained among its sub- jects a disposition to obs·erve order, the state 1nustnext establish a system of individual liberty. This sphere of personal autonomy, at first neces- sarilly narrow, is ever widened as civilization The student of politicai science rnust dis- . adva:.nces, that each individual m·ay have the tinguish carefully between the state and the · grea iest opportunity £or the use and develop- governrnent. He n1ust rernember that the true 1nelilt of all his powers. It is a grave error to conception of the state is that of a partioular , suppose that liberty is an inalienable ·natural right, and that the state only imposes necessary portionofmankind viewed as an organized unit, . while the governm~ent is an organ of the state . for expressing and executing its wiU. The state , rest,raints. On the contrary, the only solid foum.dation and safe-guard of individual rights are found in the sovereignty of the state. True is the whole body-politic, occupying a: cotntnon · liberty can never exist upon this earth outside territory and possessing the satne governm·ent. of state organization. Unless the state defines As such, it is an-comprehensive.. einbracing , the limits of individual action, and repels en- croachtnent upon those limits, liberty is in- every person within its organization. But its evitably displaced by anarchy. The freedotn of chief and most essential attribute is its sover- . baribaristn produces discord, slavery and stagna- eignty, by virtue of which it possesses original, · tion ; but f1·eedom that emanates from the state absolute and universal power over aU its sub- brings peace, liberty and progress. jects. After the state bas founded governtnent and With this conception of the state in mind, it becotnes possible to deduce its rational ends. View·ed from the historic standpoint, the first end which the state aitns to accomplish is the formation of government. This, the first step out of barbaristn, :is the rneans for the enlighten- lnent of the people as to what the w~elfare of the state requires, and at the same tin1e the instru- ment through which the state is defended against attack or disorder. But it n1ust not he supposed secured individual liberty, it has yet attained only its proxitnate ends. But these are a step toward the accomplish1nent of a higher pur- pose. The grand and chief design which the sta,te 1nust ultitnately accomplish is. clearly the perfection of hutnanity, by the formation of a wodd-state. But before mankind can be po:litically organized as a whole, the individual brotherhoods must first be perfected. Before the universal state can appear, the national state must be everywhere developed. There~ fore, the secondary purpose of the state is the that the chief function of governtnent is pro- .· perfecting of its nationality, the developtnent of tection; it is rather the instruction of t:he citizen its national genuis. To secure this end, it must upon the needs of the brotherhood, and as his bring its citizens to the possession of a common relations become tnore co.mplex, with the growth language and customs and co1n1non ideas of of civilization, the greater is his need of that . governtnent and law. And not only in these enlightentnent which is afforded by governtnent. respects must the state aim to render its popula- Having, by the establishment of its sovereignty tion hotnogeneous, but it is also bound to pro- throu~h governtnent, secured the reign. of peace teet its nationality against the deteriorating in-

THE' OONCORDIENSIS. fluences of immigration. When this ceases to contribute to the existence and healthful growth of the state, and endangers its national language, .customs and and institutions, the titne has cotne for the state to close its gateways until it edu- cates these foreigners into hartnony with its fundatnental principles. By no other tneans can the national state be preserved, strengthened . and perfected. The state developes its nationality, however, not as an end in itself, but in order that it may the better attain its ulti1nate end-the civilization of the world. As the chief aim of an individual is the perfection of an his powers, so the funda- mental purpose of humanity is the complete dev_rlopn1ent and enlightenment of the universal brotherhood. The logical consequences of this doctrine are evident. It involves the duty of the prosperous state to aid the unfortunate, and of the enlightened to uplift the uncivilized. It gives to the state a universal hurnan purpose, it causes it to stand for the interests of the race, it ai:ms at the perfect developtnent of human reason. With such ends as these to accon1plish, the true state is the grandest of all earthly institu- tions, for it recognizes humanity as a b1·other- hood, secures tnen their rights and creates their liberties, increases individual opportunity, and augn1ents hutnan prosperity. When this con- ception of the state is fully realized atnong n1en, and when these ends are con1pletely attained, enlightentnent and peace will fill the earth, and the state ~ill have perfonned its true mission. RoscoE GuERNSEY, '96. Valedietory _Rddr~ss. As it becomes our lot to bid a lasting farewell to the beloved institution which has fostered us, and to our instructors and cornrades for tbe past four years, we experience feelings that lie too deep for words. Yet our valedictorian, though filled with the sadness of parting, is pervaded with the courage of hope. I would have tny words carry not only a farewell, but also strength for the future. Most worthy president :-After passing only t'he last two years of our course under your adrninistration, we 111ust lJid you farewell. We shall ever treasure the tnetnory of our relations with you, for we have experienced with profit the Tnotliding influence of your high character and of your untiring efforts to inculcate ideals of n1anliness and of righteousness. We have hailed with pleasure your endeavors to add greater pron1inence to intellectual training, the pritnary function of a college. Congratulating you upon the advance which has resulted in the educational standard of our Alina Mater, and wishing you greater success in your future labors, we bid you God speed. Gentietnen of the Board of Trustees :-Al- though to us, in our undergraduate days, the details of your work have seldorn been apparent, yet we are aware that our profitable course has been possible only through the wisdotn of your n1anagement. Your able and intelligent control of Union Col lege, promoting her life and prog- ress, has proven your loyal devotion to our conJtnon Alma Mater. The rnen who graduate fron1 this institution to-day desire to acknovvledge their obligation to you as their silent benefactors. May God bless your efforts. Gentletnen of the Faculty :-With you our relations have been tnost inti tnate. You have been our faithful instructors, our constant advis- ers, our true friends. To you we owe no small part of our intellectual attainn1ent and discipline. Your scholarship, your earnest qualifications, your character as tnen, have left upon our lives indelible itnpressions. We have found you able teachers of the text book, and trusty co-vvorkers in the classroom. But more than this, by your precepts and exan1ples, by the lofty ideals which you have held before us, you have ai1ned to itn- plant within us those sterling qualities vY hich are intended pi·e-etninently to inspire us with nobler aspirations, and to fit us for our stations in life as intellectual, upright citizens, and as 1nen. Gentletnen .of the Faculty, we appreciate your worth and bid you a reluctant farewell. Comrades of the Class of I 896 :-. For four years we have been con1panions in the satne field of work, laboring for the same worthy end.

~ lly ur le ns fit er of v-e ld 1e lg 1e td s, 1- 1e t, lS 1r )1 'f- ., 3. 3- ll ::> .... .e ·s Lr h 1- h h lS . S :e .r e I. \' THE ~CONOORDfEN:SIS. 5 During this period of college lite, have been fonned ties of union growing into kin.shi p of heart and mind-bonds that it seetns a n1is£or- tune to sever.. As classmates we have been singing a hymn. R_ev. Mr. Stevenson :read a port:1on of the sixth chapter of Matthew and Dr Sewall offered prayer. After an anthem by the church choir, caru:e strengthened ~u~d h~ne.fitted by the subUe influ- Pt~esidlent Raytnond's .sennon to the class of '96. ences of e~ch others hves. Although we shaH The text was \Seek ye first the kingdom of soon he w~de_ly separated, yet the results of 0 ~ 1 r I God and His righteousness. and all these things ~on~ assoctation togeth~r, and that feHowsh~p shalil: ~e added unto you.\-Matthew VI: 33· whtch has been developed for one anothe~· wdl ever ren1ain. To-day as we graduate frotrt the college of our choice and afl:ection we are stan.d- ing on the threshold of a new and broader life. Many of us will now cease ouT preparation and enter at once into the activities of the worid. But this can be to us nought else than a 11opeful though. t. For amply trained in the discipline afforded by the opportunities of our Ahna Mater, and fully grounded in the fundan1ental essentials of a successful life, believe tne, w·e shoukl give no heed to pessirnistic prophesies of failure. In our fuhtre years we can do no better than to rear upon the enduring foundation which we have laid in. Union College, a corresponding superstructure of rounded tnanhood. If this be our aim, I can truly predict in the words of our tnotto, \'Onward we will find a way foT our- selves.!'' Clabstnates, con~rades, vnlete! fare- well ! Be strong. God be with you. Ros·coE GuERNSEY, '96. COMMENCEMENT . Tt)e Ba\<:alaureate. SUNDAY EVENING. The one hundred and first Cornmencen1en.t of Union ·College opened Sunday evening, June 21st, with the Baccalaureate Sen:non, by Andrew V. V. Raytnond, D. D., LL. D., president of Union University. The State Street Methodist . Church, where all the exercises were heid, was . crowded at ari early hour, with tl1ose interested in \ Old Union.\ On the platfonn were seated President Rayn1ond, Rev. Albert C. Sewall, D. D., Rev. A. Russell Stevenson and Rev. Henry Grahatn,.D. D. Dr. Graham invoked the · divine blessing and then the audience joined in Dr. Raytnond said in part: We call this the Senlfl'<Hl on the Mount,. and yet judged according to ot11· 1nodern conventional standards there is little of the sennonic about it ; Christ's one aim was no serve n1en, to give them truth that wou:l(}i tnake thetn free. There is a suggestive- ness ~bo11t the ·popular therne 'Sern1on on the Mount' as though the speaker stood above the plane of our connnon life. 'I:'11.e question Christ saw on the faces of hi\ audience was the ever recurring question of hun1an.ity ' What shall we eat, what shall we ddnk,, and whei·ewithal shall we be clothed?' He sought the development of tnankind, th.e unf()tcling of the possibilities of his nature, to direct l1i1n in his attetnpts to realize the prornise of his, own capacities. In seeking to release men frorn bondage, h~ struck at the n1ost repTessive, tnost narrowing, 1nost galling in- fluence in the world vtz : Anxiety about food and etothing. Bttt Christ made no direct effort to abolish pove1ty for that was not the real curse. He hitn&elf was as poor as the poorest. He taught co1nnrunisn1 of a certain sort, but to the rich, not ~to the poor. The principle which Christ sought to in1press upon. aU is this, ' Blessedness is tneasured by the un.:Colding of a man's noblest powers.' He wo·uld have put stress upon money tnaking as the & 111re road to heaven, but he knew, as vve know, that more tnoney does not mean liberty of s&ul. What Christ sought was to make rnen great ......... gt-eat as 1nen created in the irnage of God. He knew that the greatest obstacle to t11e tna king of men, to the development of the noblest power and capacities of human nature, was supreme interest in the food and clothing prohlem.

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ease of the dusky Indi.an, pale faced Faculty, All the sin of the world cot1:1es from putting the body fh·st. ·Christ knew this hutnan frailty and went at once to the root of the tnatter. He sought to abolish both ~in and wretchedness by removing the cause. He did not say that the care of the body was wicl{ed. He only said it was sinful to rnake it the first question. Right- eousness never rneans idleness. Work is the prin1ary cond,ition of righteousness. The m~tn who will not work is the least, the sn1aJlest of man. Kind of work is not itnportant so long as · and the braves of '96. The Ivy Poe1n was omitted on account of the necessary absence of A. B.Vosslet, the Ivy Poet, and after more rnusic the Ivy was planted by G.. L. VanDeusen. He th.en ascended the platfonn and delivered the lvy Oration, speaking affection- • ately of the college life about to he left behind. Here an innovation was introduced. President Dar1n presented \i\t\'\ m. H. Hall, who produced · a little wooden horse and called on R. B. Beattie it is honest and useful. The foundation of all to tnake some appropriate retnarks. Mr. Beattie stable prosperity lies in righteousness. Idleness · responded feelingly and told of the services is always demoralizing whether in the son of a · which the much ridden horse had rendered to millionaire or in the tran1p. . '96. He then proposed to cretnate not only the But the crowning principle in the progressive horse but all the horses stiH in their possession. revelation of scr·ipture is the law of service- •· Blue books, cotnpends, scrolls and .note books the service of sacrifice. The profoundest truth · were all contributed to the blaze. ever revealed to .man is the truth that centres in The exercises were interspersed with srnoking, Calvary. It has been the great reden1ptive force singing and yelling, varied by orchestral sel:ec- in the world for 1900 years, and the truth of • tions. After the cremation the class adjour11ed Calvary is the truth of gain ·through sacrifice. . to the terrace where they sang Union songs. Before closing President Raytnond rna de a short address to the graduating class. The remarks were interesting and will undoubtedly leave a lasting impression on the class. The services closed with a hytnn and the proHounc- ing of the benediction by Dr. Raymond. MONDAY. Of all the Cotnn1ence1nent gayeties none ap- peal more strongly to the in1agination than the Ivy ExerciRes. This year they were held as · usual, Monday •afternoon, under \Dr. N ott's Elm\ in the garden. The black robed graduates placidly smoking their pipes, the bright faces . and gayly colored dresses of the pretty girls, for whom Union students have always a strong pen- chant; and axound and behind and above all · the enttartcing fairness of the June day with its beautiful foliage made a picture long to be re- membered. After music by ''Gioscia\ the Pipe Oration , was delivered by Jeremiah Wood. ''Jerry,\ as he is commonly called, spoke with his accustomed prize 8pea~iQ~. The annual contests in Sophotnore and Junior oratory and for the Alexander prize for · extemporaneous speaking were held Monday evening in the State Street Methodist Church. A large audience was present and great interest tnanifested in the speaking which was of a high order of merit. Professor Hale presided. At intervals delightful music was furnished by Gioscia's orchestra. The Sophotnore orators and their subjects were as follows : \Our Foreign Elernent,\ Harry E. Barbour; \Our CouGtry Toward Venezuela,\ Francis E.. Cul- len ; \National Reputation,\ vVillis E. Merri- man, Jr. ; '\International Arbitration,\ Chester H. Utter. At this point the announcetnent was made of the special question for the extempora- neous contest which was: \Resolved that the Government of Great Britain is tnore Demo- cratic than that of the United States.\ The four Juniors then delivered their orations as follows: \Moral Aspect of the Eastern ~1estion,\ A. M. Blodgett; \The Pole Star of

THE CONOORDIENSlS. Nations,\ Elory G. Bowers ; ''The· Rela6on of ~· Church and State,\ Ja;mes C. Cooper; ''The 7 Mission cgfthe Iconoclast,\ Orlando B. Pershing. The Sigma Xi society convened in annual The AJexander prize contest followed with session in the Engineering roon1s in North nine participants: Roscoe Guernsey, 'g6, Her- . Colonade, Monday at 9 o'clock, A. M. bert H. \B1·own '97 ,, Walter M. Swann, '98, This society bestowed its keys upon five men Chas. lL Mattison, '98, Pedey P · Sheehan, ·· of the graduating class as follows: '98; Pete1· Nelson, '98, \Ynl. D. Reed, '98, Gardiner L. Van Dusen, Argyle; Charles George 13. Young, '96, D. Howard Crave~r,. '96. Cleaver, Unadilla; R. Burton Rowe, Clarks- All the contestants eX!cept Swann, '98, took the . ville; George E. Pollock, North Argyle. The negative side of the question. following officers were elected for the ensuing The C()tnrnittee to decide the contests was 1 · year: President, Prof. A. H. Pepper; vice- composed of Wn1. J · Kline., '72, Robert J · , president, Prof. Howard Opdyke ; treasurer, Landon~ '\8o and Frederick W. Catneron, '8r. : Prof. J. H. Stoller; secretary, Prof. Elton D. ·They awarded the fii-st and second Sophomore •. Walker; corresponding secretary, Prof. J. H. prizes respectively to Francis E. Cullen and : Patterson. Cheste'· H. Utter; the first and second Junior •. prizes to E'l 1 ory G. Bowers and A. M. Blodgett, , and the Alexander prize, fifty dollars in gold, to · D. Howard Craver, 'g6, with honorable tnention : of Wtn. D. Reed, '98. TUESDAY. Atnasa J. Parker, president of the Alurnni ·• Association called that body to order for its annual business session in the college chapel, Tuesday 1norning at 9 : 45 o'clock. The meet- ng was opened by prayer by Rev. Henry Gra- hatn, after which the president delivered his The annual meeting of Phi Beta Kappa was : annual address. held 1\1onday morning of Cotntnencement week, The tninutes of the previous meeting having been read and approved, Dr. W. T. Clute addressed the rneeting at length upon the needs bershi p .and initiated. The fol1owing tnen were elected to n1e1nbership and initiated at a special of the college, and rt=-ad an urgent appeal for n1eeting held June 9th: Roscoe C. Guernsey, funds to supply their needs. Money was es- East Cobleskill; George J. Dann, Walton; D. pecially requested for the following purposes Howard Craver, Albany; Daniel M. Westfall, and the approxitnate cost of providing thetn was in the En,.glish roon1. At this tneeting Marvin H. StroJJH! of Schenectadv was elected to tnetn- u - Cambridge. also gtven : Offi.cers were elected for the ensuing year as r. An additional inco1ne to cover current ex- follows : President, Dean B. H. Ripton; vice- penses and the endown1ent of additional profes- president, D. W. L. Pearson ; recording secre- sorships in honor of Union's great teachers. An tary, PTof. IC. McKenzie ; corresponding secre- endowtnent of $5o,ooo for each professorship tary, PTof. J. I. Bennett; treasurer, R. J. Lan- would 0e required. don. 2. An equipment for the new departrnent of A reso:lution was adopted to give the sum of electrical engineering at an estimated cost of $roo.oo to be expended for books for the college . $ro,ooo. library 4 It was also decided to cotntnunicate . 3· An engineering building with professor- with each rnen1ber of the society who has writ- . ships. With proper equiptnent this want should ten any books and secure copies of his works. be supplied for $Ioo,ooo.

'THE CONCORDIEN:SIS. 4· A chernical laboratory with appropriate furnishing at an estimated cost of $25,ooo. .. 5. A natural science building for the use of the departrnents of geolo~gy, botany, biology and physioiogy, at an estimated cost of $5o,ooo. 6. A new dormitory to accotnodate 6o stu- dents at an estimated cost of $5o,ooo. 7. Professors' houses at a eost of $5o,ooo. 8. An endown1ent for the library. The appeal is signed by President A. V. V. Raytnond, Judson S. Landon and John A. De- Retner, the two latter colilstituHng the local comtnittee of the board .of trustees. At the conclusion of the reading of the appeal, on n1otion of Dr. P.R. Furbeck, '54, ofGlovers- ville, the following cotn1nittee on notn:inations was appointed: Dr. C. W. Anabl;e, '46, J. Keyes Paige, '65, Geo. H. Buell, '87. The treasurer of the association read his · annual report, which showed a balance on hand of $349·5°· The cornmittee appointed at the last annual meeting to obtain subscriptions to the an1ount · of $zooo for the purpose of purchasing the library of the late Dr. Taylot~ Lewis was asked to report. None of the COlTirnittee were present and as there was no evidence that any work had been done a new cotnmittee was appointed as follows: Lewis E. Gurley, Harmon V. Myn- derse, A. J. Thotnpson, W. J. I-Iillis and J. K. Harroun. The no111inating con11nittee presented the fol- lowing report which was una.nitnously adopted : President, Rufus K. Tryon, Vice-President, Frank Bailey, Secretary, W. T. Clute ; Treasurer, Allen Jackson; Executive Com- mittee, A. J. Thompson, Jarnes Heatly, B. C. Sloan, J. B~ T. Warner; Metnber of Athletic Board, for two years, R. J. Landon; for three years, C. E. Franklin. Lewis E. Gurley was appointed chainnan of a cotntnittee to act with the tTustees in the tnat- ter of constructing a house to replace Dr. Foster's, which was destroyed by fire in March of this year. He was etnpowered to choose two other alutnni to act as his associates on this committee .. The floor was then taken by Alexander J. Tho,mpson, who spoke at length upon the ignorance of the genera:l body of the college alurnni in regard to the :condition of the college and to the actions and policy .of the board of trustees. In conclusi:on he embodied the above idea in a resolution. No action was taken on this resolution, but th:e follo-vving resolution in- troduced by A. S. Wright was adopted : Resolved, that a cornrnittee of three be ap- pointed by the Alumni Association of Union College, whose duty it shaH be to :send out annuaHy two bulletins, one in the fall giving the transactions of the preceeding annual rneeting and other matters of general interest to the alurnni; one in the spri11g infonnjng th.e altnnni of matters to be considered at the altnnni meeting. Pxof. A. S. Wright, the Rev. L. L. Bennett and Andrew McFarlane were appointed as tl;le cotn mittee. Prof. A. S. Wright ancl the Rev. L. L. Ben- nett weTe made tel'lers for the election of a trustee to succeed the Hon. Stephen I<. Willian1s of Newarlc whose tin1e had expired. · Geo. W. Featherstonhaugh non1inated David E. Sprague. '79, to the office and he was unanitnously elected. The tneeting then adjourned. The alurnni dinner W[l:S served in Nott Metno- rial Ha11,. Tuesday at r :30 P. M. The interior of the hall presented a very at- tractive appearance with the long tables decked in white and here and there beautified by potted plants and vases of wild flowers. T'be alurr1ni were seated according to their classes, and the Glee club was placed 11ear the centre of the hall so that their voices 1night be heard by aH. Caterer Owen laid covers for about 250, and served that nutnber with a very acceptable re- past. Previous to the serving of the dinner, grace was said by Rev. Dr. Graham of this city. After the last coutse the Glee Club sang the \Drinking Song\ in a very creditable tnanneT and then order was called by the toashnaster, i-' f. Ron upon thing By by L after G<: the c all\ and: Tl speec Jainc tnem Tl fort] ofth .Tl to b) Tl 1·esp( Botb sp1n activ larg<: Aj to l class cidec that Unic diffi< mat<: en de 1nee1 T titne spee T wen Met ably then p

THE OONCORDJENSIS. 9 Hon. Amasa J. Parker, '63. He first called upon Dr. Wells, who gave notice of several · things ot interest to the alumni. By this tin1'e the first .gallery was well fiUed by ladies and gentletnen anxious to hear the after dinner speeches, by Union's fatuous alutnni .. General ·Parker called for responses frotn all the classes that held their reunions this year and all were heard frorn with the exception of '76 and '86. The class of '46 was well represented and speeches were made by W. S. Vroon1an, Dr. Jatnes Rankin and Dr. John Wade N ott, all tnetnbers of that illustrious class. The Rev. Dr. George Alexander responded for the class of '66 in a speech that told of tnany of the achievetnents of that class when in college. 'The call for the olde5t aiutn ni was responded to by Judge G. F. Danforth, '40. The classes of '4r and '51 were represented respectively by S. p. Luce and L. E. Gurley. Both .of these gentletnen displayed great college spirit and tnade eloquent appeals for a more active interest in the college by the alun1ni at large. After the Glee Club sang \If you want to go to Union,'' Dr. Raytuond responded for the class of '75· His ren1arks were brief, but de- cidedly to the point. He spoke of the difficulties that stook in the way of the advancetnent of Union College and assured the ahunni that these difficulties could be easily overcotne if only material aid could be obtained in the fonn of endowments such as those appealed for at the tneeting of the alutnni that tnorning. The Glee Club sang again and in a short titne the hall was quiet after the two hours of speech Inaking. The Class Day Exercises of the class of '96 • were held Tuesday afternoon, in the State Street Methodist Church. The building was comfort- ably filled and the audience at all tirnes showed thetnselves n1uch interested in the exercises. Promptly at 3 :30 the graduating class entered • to the music of an inspiring 1narch and seated thernselves near the front. The President, Geo. J. Dann, spoke of the past and future of Union, and thanked the people of Schenectady for their kindness. Robert B. Beattie then read the class poem which was repiete with hutnorous con.Hnents on the 1nen1bers of the class. After an orchestral selection the orati.on was delivered by George E. Pollock, who said that it is our duty to press our way forward with the tnotto '' We will find a way or m·ake one.'' There is nothing n1ore pleasant than success, and the possibiiity of success lies in ourselves. Atnbition, perseverance and self reliance, are all essential cbaracteristics, but there is something higher toward which we must strive, a realiza- tion of the Divine Ideal. The class history was then read by Wrn. H. Hall, and tnuch laughter was caused by the t·etniniscences of the career of the class. A selection by the orchestra followed, and then Chas. I-I. Vosburgh gave the address to the class. He denied that greatness is a necessary t~esult of labor and paid a high tribute to genius. The prophecy was next read by Edward P. Foley, who created tnuch amusement by the startling futures n1arked out for his classmates. The exercises vvere then closed by the singing of the Class Song. rnus ioal F 550Giatio I)' 5 ~0 f}Gert. 'The concert given by the college musical organizations, at the Van Curler, Tuesday even- ing, was a success frotn every point of view, and inaugurates a precedent that should be followed for years to cotne. Every nu tnber on the prograrntne elicited hearty applause from the large and select audience in attendance. 1\he success of this concert is a great en- couragetnent to the management for the coming year, as the incorne frotn it nearly clears up all the debts of the association, and brightens the prospects for a successful season next year. The following programtne was rendered:

io FJRE CONCORDIENSlS. FART I. x. YALE MARCH, \ The Power of Imagination,'' George S. Van Baar j D f w·. lt .. :ann o · ·a ·.·on. MANDOLIN CLUB. 2. UNION EESIDE THE MOHAWK VALE, c. E. F,-a,zklite, •g 3 • ''' Militadstn in Civilization,'' Archibald S. GLEE Cum. :. De1·by of Sandy Hill. 3· MELODY IN F, Rubhtstti1z :. MR. BALLARD ANn STRING QuARTETTE. I ' 1 ' Supernatural Testilnony ,\ George E. Pol- 4· FRESHMAN QUARTETTE..,_~eTHE FATHERS' LULLABY,'' : lock of North Argyle. MESSRS. GREEN, HINMAN, MACMAHON, EAMES. 5 • FLEMISH DANCE, Bo~t!uur : '·' The Rise of Political Freedotn,\ Marvin. H. BANJo CLuB. • · Strong of ScheR ectad y. 6. BA-A EA-A BLACK SHEEP, · Wish~ ''' The Cli~nax of Character,\ Howard M GLEE CLU:B. • I Westfall, Jr., of Ca1nbridge. PART H. Engineers (eX:cused fro.rn reading) : 1. CREOLE LOVE SONG, Smz'th · GLEE CLUB. 2. CRADLE SONG, MANDOLIN CLUB. \A Systern for Heating NottMetnorial Hall,\ JanTes Herring of Walton. Hauser I ':' Asphalt as .a Lining for Reservoir Dan1s,\ 3· FRESHMAN QUARTETTE,-'' FAIRLY CAUGHT.\ MESSRS. GREEN, HINMAN, MACMAHON' EAMES. ROMEO AND JULIETTE-(By special request.) MEssRs. BEATTIE, MAcMAHON AND HEINZ. 4· DARKIES PATROL, Lansin{[. BANJO CLUB. 5· (a) TERRACE SONG, Fitz Htegk L1edlow, '56 (b) DRINKING SONG, (c) SONG TO OLD UNION, GLEE CLUB. 6. MEDLEY-\ GOOD NIGHT,\ MANDOLIN CLUB. WEDNESDAY. Fitz Hu![h Ludlow, '.sb Arr. by O'Neill, 'en The comtnencetnent this year, as ir{ fortner years, was held on the fourth Wednesday in June. The occasion, taking place in the State Street Methodist church, was as usual intensely impressive. Shortly after IO: 30 A.M., Gioscia's orchestra in the gallery, assisted by John ICe yes Paige at the organ, struck up the stirring strains of the \ Centennial March,\ cotnposed es- pecially for last year's celebration by John T. Mygatt, '58. Mr. Mygatt personally conducted the orchestra. Gioscia's introductory was then rendet~ed, after which the entire audience joined in singing the I 17th psalm. The Rev. David Sprague of Atnherst offered prayer, after which the honor speakers were introduced by President Raytnond. The speakers and their subjects were as follows: \ The Synthetic Value of National Spirit,\ D. Howard Craver of Albany. George L. VanDusen of Argyle. \' Tests of Portland Cetnent,\ 1-Ioward M. West of Glens Falls. The V aledic.torian, Roscoe Guernsey of East CobLeskill, \vas then announced, and greeted with applause. He spoke on \ The Rationa.l Ends of the State.\ At the conclusion of ·his oration Mr. Guernsey bade a touching farewell to President Raytnond, the faculty, the trustees, and to his cotnrades in the class of '96. The orchestra then rendered a selection, and the Chancellor's Address by l-Ion. Geo. R. Peck of Chicago, followed. The address, the thetne of which was '' Th~ Ethical Basis of Atnerican Patriotistn,'' was a splendid one, holding the enrapt attention of tbe audience from beginning to end. It was one of those fine appeals to that which is truest and best in all young 1nen, and it left a deep im- pression. ~'The patriotistn that benefits an Atnerican scholar,\ Mr. Peck concluded, \is a tnoral force ; strenghtened by faith and in&pired by a generous and courageous sense of duty. Such a patriotistn alone can withstand the te1nptations tha:t will conJe to you, not once, but a thousand tirnes, as they co1ne to aU. Sotne soft voice will whisper that this is not an age of heroi:s.tn and self-denial, and will bid you drift with the current of ease and custom. You remember- do you not ?-the entrancing story of that island home, where Calypso sweetly sang as she threw the golden shuttle. But the .souls of In·en will always be more deeply stirred as they read how,

THE O.QN;OORDIENSIS. 1: ' out on the stormy main, gazing with fixed eyr:e : upon the Pleiades. the great Ulysses ~clung to tib.:e • raft that bore him bravely on.'' AWARD OF PRIZES. GRADUATE DEGREES. Warner prize to the Senior of highest stand· ing in the perfonnance of collegiate duties and ' in moral deportment, awarded to Roscoe Guern- sev. President Raymond then conferred the foUow- · Ingham prize to the Senior of at least two ing degrees upon the graduates: years attendance who presents the best essay on Bachelors of Art-Theodore Van Wyck An- an assigned s.u bject in English literature or thony, Robert Brewster Beattie, Josiah Gael · history, awarded to D. Howard Craver. Beckwith, Jr., Charles Waldron Clowe, David · Allen prizes (three) for the best essays on Howard 'Craver, ·George Joseph Dann, Ja,mes : any subject fro·m Seniors. Third prize, George Harvey Dunham, Paul Foley, Roscoe Guern- • Joseph Dann; second prize, Roscoe Guernsey; sey, John G. Hilton, Howard Mallery, Marvin' first prize, D. Howard Craver. Howard Strong, Arthur Burdette Vossle1~, · Clark prizes for the best two essays by tnetn- Daniel Millet~ Westfall, Jr., Je.retniah vVood. bers of the Junior c[ass, on assigned subjects in Bachelors of Philosophy-John Bullions A,n- . English literature. First prize to Howard R. derson, Archibald Steuart Derby, William ReT- . Furbeck, second prize to S. Ellner Sloctnn. man Hall, Walter Leslie Huggins, Richa~;d Prizes (four} for the best Junior and Sopho- Eurton Rowe, Albert Benson VanVranken. tnore orations. Juniors-First, E. G. Bowers; Bachelors of Science--Burt H. Boorn, Zede- second, Abba M. Blodgett. Sophomores- kiah LeRoy Myers, Alva Lawrence Peckhan::1, Francis E. CuUen ; second, Chester H. Utter. George E. Pollock, Alfred George SorraneT, Engineering prize for the best thesis by a Walter Lancelot Terry, Major Allen Twiford, tnernber of the graduating class in the engineer- Andrew T. Gifford Wen1ple, George B. Young. ing course, awarded to Charles H. Vosburg. Bachelors of Engineering-Charles E. CleaveT, The Allison-Foote prizes (two )-One for the jan1es Herring, Gardner L. VanDusen, Chades literary society, one for the best individual de- Herbert Vosburgh, Hovvard M. West. bater regardless of society relation. Awarded Dr. Rayn1oncl then addressed the graduates to the Adelphic society, and to Herrick C. with a few brief words of inspiration and advice, Allen of that society. after which the diplomas were presented. Gilbert K. Harroun prize for the best thesis HONORARY DEGREES. The following honorary degrees wet~e then announced: A. M., in course.-Frederic H. D. Crane, '93; George H. Hoxie, '93; David Van Horne, '64 ; Truman Weed, '75. LL. D.-George R. Peck of Chicago. D. D._:The Rev. George F. Genung~ '1-o, Amherst; the Rev. C. D. F. Steinfuehrer., '64,, Astoria; the Rev. George Gamble, Plattsbtug; the Rev. J. Philip B. Pendleton, Schenectady. A. B.-William H. Albro, '65, Middleburg. When this portion of the exercises had been concluded, \The Song to Old Union\ w~s sung with splendid enthusiasm, after which came the in Sociology. Co1nmittee appointed by the donor. Awarded to \Valter E. Huggins. Prize offered by the National Society of the Sons of the AmericanJ Revolution for the best ... essay on a given subject. Awarded to Paul Canfield, '97. Blatchford Oratorical Medals for the best two orations by Seniors. First prize was awarded to Roscoe Guernsey; second prize to D. Howard Craver. Honorable mention was made of Geo. J. Dann. Special honors-In Greek, George J. Dann, Roscoe Guernsey; in Latin, George J. Dann, Roscoe Guernsey ; in G~rman, George J. Dann, George E. Pollock; In English, Arthur B. Vossler ; in Philosophy, D. Howard Craver Marvil; H. Strong; _in History, George J. Dann: Jeremiah Wood; In Chemistry, Albert Van V ranken ; in Biology, Alva L. Peckham · in Geology, Richard B. Rowe. '

12 THE CONOORDIE.NSIS. THE CONC.ORDIENSIS. 'PUBLISHED ON ALTERN.\TE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR, BY 'l'HE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OB EDITORS: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. WALTE.R L. HUGGINS, '96, - Business Manager. WILLIAM H. HALL, '{)6, - - Literary Editor. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst.Business Manager. F. PACKARD PALMER, '97, l A CIRCULAR has been .addressed to the Union College Alnu1ni in wl1icl:1 is noted the failure of the project to rernove the College to Albany and the urg·ent needs of the institution at the present tiu1e. We regret that laek of space will prevent us frotn printing in fuH such an impoTtant docu- ment. It is an appeal to 8enthnent which should stir the heart and open the purse of every loyal alumnus. To quote f11o,tn the circular-· '',the senti- ment that is nothing nlore than an affectionate memory that lives in the past and nJ~anifests no practica~ interest in the present and futul'e,. the sentin1ent that asks only that it shall not be dis- H. C. TODD, '97,, I H. H. BROWN, 97, J. A. H. BIRCH, '97, R. D. FuL~ER, '97, D. WooD, 97, CARL HAMMER, '98, I WILLIAM p. REED, '98, .~ P. p. SHEERAN, '98, I Assistant Editors, turbed in its occasional delightful reveries while it raises no hand to help, is not the sentiinent that builds up a college Ol' demands the serious con- sideration of those who are charged \With the wel- fare of the college. '' Reportorial Staff. ,--;The ~ital question is this: Will the alumni of F. Boss, '98, ) E. S. BROWN, Law School. Union Dollege respond to the appeal? Will they supl?ort the instituti(!)n which gave them their TERMS, $ 2 00 F y A ... \e4:r(cation as heartily and loyally as they should? · ·- ER .}f~R, IN 15 , DCVE.AN'l'qE. ···If they will, the future prosperity of the college is SINGLE COPIES, . ~...... .. - N s assured. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribel's are Tequested to 111ake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTA D, N.Y. WITH the present issue of THE CONCORDIENSIS, Vol. XIX is con1pleted. The Board of Editol's for the conling year, according to precedent long ago established, take charge of the publication of this issue. They assume the responsibilitjes of office and enter upon their work with pleasure. The retiring Board of Editors owing to the earnest and well directed efforts of Messrs. Twiford and Hall, .greatly iinproved the literary department of the paper. Mr. Huggins as business manager has also improved upon past management and pla~ed THE 00NCORDIENSIS upon a good financial basis. The work of the incoming board has therefore been Inade .comparatively easy. They have but to carry on the work of the p·ast year to receive the plaudits of both student body and alumni. They, however, do not propose to stagnate, but intend to press on and, if possible, raise the standard of THE CoNCORDIENSIS still higher. Pro1nises however are often but vain boasts. so we will not now say what we will do, but will wait and see what we can do. CoNSIDERABLE trouble has of late been caused the library comn1ittee fron1 the violation of the library rules by the students of the college It is the opinion of the C~NCORDIENSIS that the fault lies primarily, not with. the students, but with the system which has been in operation for son1e time past Many books lilave doubtless been inten- tionally stolen, but we aTe inclined to think that by far the greater nu 1nber of those now missing were taken by the s-tudents with the intention of returning them as soon. as they were through with their use. The fact thai they have not been re- turned is no indication that they have been stolen. In ruany instances thoughtlessness or lack of favorable opportunity has been the rAason why they were not reiur-ned. Many of them will probably be found in the dormitories during the summer. There is but one way to avoid this difficulty and that is, to allow the free circulation of the books among the students of the college, after the system adopted in eirculating libraries. Under the present system the library is of but little practical service to the s-tudents. The first thing which should be done however, and one which is of pri:rne importance, is the re- cataloging of the l:ibi·ary after some n1odern scientific n1ethod. At present it is impossible to . find a book without an outright search .for it.

THE, 0'0NC~ORDIEN8IS. 13 THE class of '96 has bid a final f:arewell to \Old · Albany Medi,cal College of Union University. Union.\ . During their four years life in Scbenec- ' For 57 years he has been distinguished as a -tady they not only beca:tne warmly attached to their college, the faculty and their brother students, practitioner, teacher and writer. but to quaint old \Dorp\ as welL Many of them • Union respectfully tenders her sytnpathy to most heartily I'eg-ret that the onward inarch of · his kindred and to his n1edical brethren on the time compels them to leave the surroundings · which have grown abnost as familiar to them as loss sustained by his death. those of their native town. The ~esident friends they leave be]+ind ha-ve grown as dear to them, if not dearer, than the friends of any other clhne. To their Schenectady _friends they all bid farewell -No, truth co.mpels us to state that the~e is already an exception . THE GONCORDIENSIS takes great pleasure in recording the Inarriage of Mr. Charles E. Cleaver, .,96, to Miss May A. Dayton of Schenectady, on Wednesday, June 24, at 5 o'clock. We extend to Mr. and Mrs. Cleave1· congratulations, and hope that the exception which they so early instituted may prove to be the rule with '96. ·····'), DR. THOMAS llUN. At a special meeting- of the faeulty of the Albany Medical Ooil~ge, held ,June 23. 1896, to take action on the death of Dr. 'Thomas Hun, a biographical . sketch was rPad by Dr. Vander Veer; . rem arks were made by Drs. W a~~d,. Hailes and other menl- . bers of the faculty, and the following n1emorial · minute was ordered entered 11pon the minutes, transmitted to his sons, and published in the daily papers. \The members of the facuity of the Albany Medical College assembled in special meeting, June 23, 1896, on the occasion of the death of Dr. ·'Thomas Hun, Dean of the college, Emeritus Pro- fessor of the Institutes of Meoicine, and one of the earliest members of its faculty, desire permanently to record upon their minutes the sense of loss which they experience, and ·the sorrow which they feel, in the death of their honored associate A eli pping ft om a Seattle Newspaper infonns . and friend. When they review the history of his us as follows of the death of Hancock Neagle of long and useful life, memorable for professional the class of '8 r. researches, wise counsels and benefieent deeds no \Hancock Neagle, fonnel'ly of this city, died less th.'an for successful labm.\s in behalf of this early y,esterday 1uorning in Pomona, CaL He was school during the g1·eater part of its existence, and a native of North Carolina. After corning to · for distinguished services rendered to the pro- Seattle be was selected justice of the peace, and fession of which he was so conspicuous and illus- served in that capacity in 189t and 1892. He trious a representative, they realize that in the possessed considerab~e literary taste, and only last · death of their emi~ent and honored associate their fall a poem appeared ]n the Post-Intelligencer from •· loss is great, and that they have been bereft of a his pen. He was never robust, and had been in wise counselor and a-,steadfast friend. But the bad health for several years. More than a yea:r me~nory of his long life, full of good works and ago be went to California, but apparently the · kindly deeds ren1ains and will be ever cherished, climate there failed to benefit hiin, and last night serving both as an example and as an encourage- the Post-Intelligencer received .a telegrain from ment to them and to those, who shall succeed his father, John L. Neagle, announcinghis death.\ them. They therefore order that this minute be entered in full upon the faculty records, and that, as his death is not only a personal loss to them. 'The Death of Dr. T· homas J.ilun of lllbany. but one in which the citizens of Albany ha·ve equal '/ 'I '/ J'' ., r' ., . interest and common regret, it be published in the It is with t·egret that we 1nust announce the -death of Tho1nas Hun, M. D., LL. D., of Al- bany, who gxaduated frotn Union ColJege in the ·class of '26 and who has been the oldest living ·graduate of Union for several years. From 1839 Dr. Hun was officially identified with the daily papers; that the faculty attend his funeral in a body; that the eollege be draped for thirty days, and that a copy of this minute be trans- mitted to his sons as an expression of their syJn- pathy with them in the berea~ement which they have sustained . \ A. VANDER VEER, M.D., Chairman. W. G. TUCKER, M. D . , Registra1·.

14 'l,HE OONCORDIE'NSIS. =========================================~====================~==================== ·· gramme. If any did not, it was because they .• had entered tnore fully into the sentitnent of the ·.· occasion ; because they had sought.o..-rand not From eight until eleven o'clock on Tuesday , alone-· some secluded nook where the n1utual evening, Dr. Raytnond's h.ouse was thronged :. sympathies of four years intimate acquaintance found expression-if in nothing rnore-· in the with students and others who had gladly .· unison of their heart beats. availed themselves of the opportunity to . meet the president and bid hiln fareV\rell, some :· probably for .many years and others until college : reconvened in the fall. ! Beside the president, the foHowing ladies : received· Mrs. Judson S .. Landon, Mrs. Ripton, Mrs. : Patterson.. Refreshrnents w.ere served by caterer Owen, • during the evening. All report an enjoyable time. : There is no event in the college year which is so 1nuch talked about and planned for as the . senior bail. It is the crowning feature of cotn- Inencetnent week. Every one vvants to go. Nearly every body does go. And those who stay at hcnne regret it afterwards. The Senior Ball of the class of;>96 was no ex- ception to this rule. It certainly was the finest con1tnencernent ball ever held under the dorne of 1\ott Metnorial Hall. It could not well have been otherwise. The class of '96 had to follow precedent and n1ake their ball better than any preceeding one ever held at Old Union. It is needless to say that they succeeded, as every one who went knows it and those who did not go have already. been told so by their more fortunate friends. Everything was in harn1ony with the occasion. When the sun sank to rest that evening a gentle zephyr s prank up fro1n the north bringing with it a delightful coolness. Did :the cotn1nittee send for that cooling breeze? They must have, because there was nothing which could have added to the comfort of the dancers or enhanced the beauty of the ball which they did not pro- vide. The decorations, the lights, the beautiful gowns and more beautiful faces, the music, the floor, everything which might please the eye or gladden the heart was found at the ball of '96. Gioscia and his orchestra never played better. · Little Joe always makes his violin speak but on this night he made it sing. Nearly every one danced the entire pro- The deep and life-long interest which Union's alumni often n1anifest for their ahna tnater is at no time better illustrated than in the attendance during coinm·encetnent week. Many who graduated fron1 Old Union cluring the first half of the century were here and the average attendance of son1e of the early classes was retnarkable-. The old and distinguished white haired 1nen chatted over the scenes of their col'leg.iate life with as much! interest as though they had occurred but yesterday. The class of r846, distinguished for their \good looks\ as Dr. Anable expressed it, was the oldest class to hold a reunion. On the afternoon of Ahunni day, the surviving Inem- bers of the class of' 46 n1et in \iV ashburn Hall and in an informal vvay, talked over the event& which occurred between the years of r842 and r846. The 1nembers present were: Rev. Jatnes Rankine, D. D., at one time a tutor at Union, Assistant Pr.ofessor at Trinity College,. President of Hobart College and at the head of DeLancey Divinity School; Rev. John Wade Nott, a cousin of President Nott, vVilliatn H. Vrooman of Geneva, N. Y.; Rev. C. W. Anable, D. ·D., New Brighton, Staten Island; John M. Carroll, Johnstown, N. Y.; J L. Leavitt, Schenectady, N. Y. ; Richard Osborn, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.; S. ~1. Ingalls,. Springfield, N. Y. The oldest graduate who visited Union during commencement week was Charles M. Jenkins, '29, Albany, N. Y. Atnong the representatives of other classes prior to 185o were Stephen K. Williams, '37, S. D. Luce, '41, S. W. Jackson,' 42, W. H. H. Moore, '44, Judge Robert Earl, LL .. D., '45, C. B. Warring, '45, C. A. Waldron; \4-8 Alex. J. Thompson, '48. No reunions were held by the classes of '76 and '86. The class of '96 have elected D. M. Westfall,. Jr., permanent secretary.

THE. C~ONCORDIENSlS. 15 -·-··======================================~======================================= JempletoQ'S ~RC<llQiOIJ. Templeton, '8o, walked slowly across the • caLnpus. The birds were singin .. g sweetl'y, :. flowers and grass were throwing ofl their soft · aro1na, and the tops of the high old .elms were ·· them engaged. And as he sat there in the church with the graceful head and shoulders of his old love occupying his :entire range of vision, he let his rnind stray back to the scenes of [ong ago. He renilembered it all distinctly fi·on1 the first act of the little dra1na at a hop in the '' gytn,.'' to a sad closing at a dance down town nodding gently in the breeze. It was a peTfect : -·· when one Martindaie, '9I' had gone for a day of early sunltner, such as n1any another . walk vvith M~iss Falconer, and she had not fourth Wednesday in June since time iln:tne,mo- 1 .c d .: returnee 10r the ances protnised. Ten1pleton riable. There was sotn.ething in the very ·• felt himself getting wann, even n1ad, when he atJnosphere that made Templeton, \The Hon- . thought of it. Since then he had attended orabie,\ if you please, threw out his chest, -.. b L , b '' Colu1n ·ia •, aw,' · een on the other side and puffed proudly at his bi~g 1-Iavana, and yet even gone into politics a little, lHlt still he had laughed softly to hitnself. \ Oh ·! what a ras- not quite forgotten that night when he left with cal I was,\ he rnused, \ and still if I had it all to resolves never to return. He had never forgot- do over again-by jove there'd be one :tess col- ten either, quite,. a very sweet girlish note that ege wid · \ But iust then some one 'inter- can1e a few days after the dance, full of tender rupted '·Mr. Templeton-Bob!\ The ex- little sentirnents and translucent hiclden rnean- Assemblyman turned with .more speed than · ings. He answered it in what he then thought grace. \Why' Miss Falconer,\ he Cl'ied, a \ cold, curt, professional style.\ He called it gallantly doffing his hat, \' a tnost unexpected assinine now, and gloried in his judgtnent. pleasure,\ \yes!\ she said, with a glance that The crowd was leaving the church. tnade him recalltnore than ever the days of his ''J\!Ir. Templeton, you haven't forgotten Mr. youth. They turned and continued their way Martindale? He says he retnetnbers you q_uite together-he the boy of thirty-eight-she the tnaiden of-but that would be indelicate. \Don't join that old procession,:~' she had said as he tnentioned his intention of marching to the church with the faculty and alumni, so it hap- pened that at half-past ten they had entered the church together, full of fervor for Old Union, and reminiscence of old times. The church was already fairly crowded, but still Tetnpleton is not to be excused for swearing softly to )hirnself when the usher seated hi tn several pews to the rear of Miss Falconer, and then shortly after, sotnebody '45 or '5o, who had been seated at that young lady's side arose and left the church, and before Templeton could move, somebody . '75 or 'So came and took· the vacated seat. The back of the head and shoulders looked familiar to the ex-Assemblyn1an ; especially when he leaned over and spoke pleasantly to the one at his side. They know each other mighty well ; Ten1pleton retnarked to hin1self with an incipi- ent sense of jealousy. He and Miss Falconer had been sweethearts in days of yore. The gossips of Dorp had had welL\ \Ah Martindale, glad to see you; back for commencetnent ?\ \Yes and to renew old friendships,\ said that worthy glancing at Miss Falconer. She looked at the ground and poked a fallen Tose with her parasol. Ten1pleton pretended not to notice. \You see/' said Martindale resun1ing, Miss Falconer has protnised to go with me to the ball to-night. As I was saying in the church, it's been tnany a long year since we've danced together,-Why I believe you were at that dance Tetnpleton,-sneaked out with the boys and 1nade the girls 1nad-don't you re- metnber ?\ \G·uess I do,\ said the honorable senten- tiously. And then they changed the subject. It was with a variety of emotions that Tetnple- ton arrayed himself fot· the b~ll that night, but above all he felt the satisfaction of a gritn and unrelenting determination, a determination suf- ficient unto itself,-whose source or object he did not stop to question. Nor had that de-

16 THE O·ONCORDIENSIS. tennination weakened when a few hours rater, while the orchestra was rendering ''Rastus on · Parade'' with intoxicating verve,. he strode up • :to where Martindale 'So and Miss Falconer were • seated. '' I-low handso1ne he looks,\ quoth one • of the chaperones with a little sigh. '' Oh here · comes Mr. Templetoa\ cooed a wall flower. \Un::1ph\ grunted Martindale. \Will you have · rne, Miss Falconer?\ said the Honorable. \With pleasure,\' and they disappeared a1nid , the dancers. Martindale waited. ''I'll ask her to-night,\ he repeated to hin1self for the thirty-third ti111e. The Inusic ceased, and across the crowded floor he saw the object of his cogitations leave. the building with her escort. ''I'll ask her to-night, its now or neve1·.\' He arose and sauntered toward the punch bowl. He was not in a hurry. He had a delicate hesitancy about precipitating tnatter~. The fact of it is, correspondence is always unsatisfactory anyway, perhaps he bad . not interpreted those letters exactly right after aU. But she had given hin1 her picture; and Ruth Ashtnore says-but this is digression. Away fron1 the glare of electric lights, Tetn pie- ton~ '8o, was promenading the shadowy real1ns of Washburne hall. Sotne one \vas with hi1n, who clung to his ann and agreed with all he said; and with something he didn't say when he bowed his head very low. And the funniest part of the whole thing was that Martindale, who had n1ade his thirty-third t·esolve, the fifty-third by this tin1e, was the first to hear the announcetnent. P. P. s., '98. The Union C'ollege Sutntner School opens at Saratoga Springs, Monday, July 6th. The session will continue until August I sth. The following professors will constitute the faculty. Prof. James R. Truax, Prof. Olin H. Land- Teth, Prof. Albert H. Pepper, Prof. Hovvard T. Mosher, Prof. Edward Everett Hale, Jr., Prof. Jarnes H. Stoller, Prof. George V. Edwards, Prof. John Ira Bennett, Jr., Pro:f. C. P. Lin- 11art. Regular college work will be offered in tnost of the departments. <51} e 8um.m e r ·(i i rl. How long shall we prate of her, Idly debate of her :Manifold virtues, her wisdom Aud all; TeU of her follies,. l1er Drag-net of ChoUies, Sapient fellows be:u wiles will Enthrall? She will ·exist for aye, her You will e'er espy, :she Is a part of the season I ween. She gladdens the summer, she's Just a forerunner of Suru;hine and aU that has laughter's I Bright sheen. On n1ountain she'Ll dally, she'll Glide through the valley, }laking a rout of youth, cttllow Of heart. O'er every park and pale, By every wood and dale, She will come blithely and gaily Depart. The sea-shore she'll capture, e'en Neptune in rapture, must Put down his trident and join he1· Gay throng. Like a true Lorelei, men who Are passing by, fail In her 111eshes, and WOI'ship Her song. Like the brook in the song, she Just chatters along, and Her course nothing rnortal Can sever. Men may yet come and go, She will still onward flow Laughing and chatting and smiling Forever. W. A. J OHNST()::N, '97. The following have been appointed as dele- gates to Northfield: Birch, '97, Hewitt, '97, . Wood, '97, Hoxie, '98, Rogers, '98, Sh~f>ng, '99, Ketchutn, 'gg, Post, '99 and Bradford, '99· Far· Lies Whe In a Tl past patt insti' tract 'I'l Ball datic have wen cerh then seas< othe: vidu his c tion~ the c even thor< thor< the f stud~ in th Tl abo!: hasb . ., ffilSU avot4 mon bod) undt: acco have that bef01

THE CONCORD1ENSIS. 17 Far beyond the bounds of reason, Lies a weird phantasmal sea; Where th.e wind sings on forever In a low prophetic key. Where from lal'.tguid waves distilling, Wafts a n1ystic' ·vague perfuine- Half inspiring, balf dispelling, In the soul a sllbtle gloo1n. Marint:I~s who course this. ocean, Drifting there, may oft' behold Gallies, which are spirit haunted, Freight with Farne's ephem.eral gold. But ha:ve care, ye who ·would j@urney, Where the perfun1ed waters•fiow, With seductive fascination And the siren breezes blow. For at times the musie 1nurmurs Of a mist enshrouded shoal, Where deleriu1ned hor&-es of shipwrecks Curse this sea of melanc:hole. p. p. s. - '98. gain credit and glory for 1the college is the revival Ftl]l~tiGS., · of that spirit of enthusiast\ll; which is essential to pron1otion of the athletic. interests of any insti- The history of Union college athletics for the ,, t t• 'u 1011. past year has been a record of events which in • patt has added to the good reputation of the : institution and we regret to say in part has de- , FOOT-BALL PROSPECTS. tra:cted frotn it. The Foot-Ball prospect for next fall while 'I'he earnest and untiring efforts of the Foot- • not as encouraging as info rnter years, is certainly Ball teatn last fall received the hearty commen- • not at all disheartening. 'There are many men dation of students and alumni. We may not ' in college c~pable of play:i ng a good gatne of have won tnany gatnes, but that was because we ·. Foot-Ball who have never tried to make the were unlucky, or perhaps over ambitious. It • team heretof0:re. On these men rests the sue- certainly was not the fault of the Foot-Ball men cess or failure of next season's Foot-Ball teatn. thetnselves. vVith the end of the Foot-Ball : Manager Catnpfield has already scheduled season, the faculty, following in the foot-steps of • many games, and in so doi:ng has carefu~ly selec- other institutions and desiring to help the indi- • ted those institutions with. whom Union has vidual athlete in the aU itnportant question of · always been identified, aa<il against whom there his college work, revised the rules and regula- is a fair probability of successful combat on the tions governing the various athletic interests of: gridiron. the college. It is not necessary to review the ' It is to be regretted that the meeting of the events which followed, as every student is · yvarsity Foot-Ball team held last Friday after- thoroughly conversant with thetn. Ail are now noon resulted in no election of 'varsity captain thoroughly convinced of the good intentions of. for next fall. The dispute was over the question the faculty in placing such restrictions upon the • -of admitting proxy ballots. The Athletic students as would spur thetn on to greater effort . Board had however at a previous meeting in their regular class rootn work. decided that all 'varsity men who were regulat· The action in the undergraduate body in students throughout the last year were entitled abolishing athletics during the spring term was ·· to a vote. No understanding could be arrived hasty and uncalled for. It was the result of a at so the 1neeting was adjourned by Captain misunderstanding which .tnight have been Beckwith. avoided had both faculty and students worked · We understand that a portion of the ·varsity more in harmony with each other. The student team, seven men in all, held a meeting after the body however realized their tnistake and have · adjournment, and elected a captain. Such undertaken the re-establishment of athletics in action however, was invalid as there was not accordance with the new regulations. They . a quorum pre~ent. Captain Beckwith therefoer have been 111et half way by the faculty and all reported no election to the advisory board. that is necessary to again place Union's athletes Another election will pr()bably be called for before the college world in such a manner as to • early in the fall.

18 ------· ADVERTISEMENTS. ~ PATRONIZE OOR ADVERTISERS. f.oeal al)d p~r5o1JaL At the 75th Cotnmenoem·ent Anniversat:y of An1herst College the degree of Ph. D. was con- fetTed upon Frank Sargent Hofftnann, A. M., in recognition of his recent work on \The Sphere of the State''. Dr. Hofftnann expects to complete his new book '·'The Sphe1·e of Science\ :before .going abroad. He has been greatly gratified with the success of the ''Sphere of the State'' but owing to the .more scholastic natuFe of his present ; undertaking does not expect it to tneet with ' such hearty pubtic approval. ~TENOGRAPHY. _,., W} 1 ~ D!CTA110N TAKEN AND· ~ NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORA T10NS AND ESSA YS NEATLY COPIED. B .• E. HUGGI'NS, 22M. S. S.C. ALL WORK CONFIDENTIAL. 33 N. S. S.C. ~~~s~~s®~~s~~~~~~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ooooooooooooooooooooo•ooooouooooooooooooooooooooo•ooooouooooo•uoo••••••••••••• .. •Ooooooooooououoooo•oooooououooooo•••••• - {] >- w ·~ w (9 w CIJ (fJ LU z: 0 _) 0 co _) t- 0 ~ c( C) w l:- CfJ WE tOULD NOT .JMPROVe THe QUALI If PAl D DOU BLf' THE PRIC.E A Z OJ. TRIAL PAtKAC.E ~~1'-YI. \\t<\tc POST PAl D !h.)':r:n fO.R 25 C,ENT.S. 1r11~.-..,~,., =!!!~ft'J/i' MARBURG BROS. tSIOR·· Ttf E AMERIC.AN TOBA<.GO CO·~ ~.v..~.,. BALTIMORE, MD. ESTABLISHED 1818. BI\OOKS BROTHERS, . Broadway, cor. 22d St., N. Y. City. Clothing .and Furnishing Goods, READY MADE AND MADE TO MEASURE. SPRING .AND SUMMER, 1896. The shape, style and finish of our Ready Made Gannents for Men, Boys and Children, continue, · we believe, to show irnproven1ent and at prices that will cotnpare favorably with articles 111Uch inferior in material and workn1enship. We have, besides the usual full stock of suitings, a complete line of \ Knickerbockers\ reinforced and plain for Riding and Golf, Morning Coats, Riding Vests, &c. In our Furnishing Departrnent will be found novelties in Fancy Half Hose, Scotch Long Hose and dch brocades.for Scarfs to order. Shetland and Fair Isle Sweat€rs. Many of these goods are in confined patterns and cannot be found else- where_. Catalogue, sa1nples and rules for self-measure-· ment will be sent on application. Our location, one block from Madison Square, · is convenient to the leading hotels and easy of access f1·on1 the principal railway stations in New York and vicinity~

THE CONOORDIENSI8. 19 GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE 'TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNION. :EJ:O:S:,l.v.!:OND St:caight. 0\\l.t No .1 Ciga:rettes. Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little mo~e than the price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes wiH find THIS BRAND sHperior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most cldicately .flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. This is the Old aBd Odginal Brand of Straig·bt Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year r875. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observe that the firm nalll.e as below~ is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER,, rfhe American Tob.acco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~v~ CITY ~~ TROUSERS ~~~ CO., . -~--E_. _F_. _D_A_L_Y_. __ ®b. F1Nf CoSTon' TAitoRINQ. cluits, $10 Up. Trousers., $4 Up. Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a. postal card and our representative (C. E. HENNESY) \'V\Hl call. 149 80. GENTRE 81'REET. Next '-tt>Or to Barhydt House. A communication inform·s us of the present good h~ealth and prosperity of Tracy H. Robert- son, '91. Mr. Robertson has recendy 01·ganized a fishing and tr~ding cornpany which is to carry on operations in the vi~cinity of Seattle, Wash.. The SeaUle Telegraph mentions hin1 editorially as follows: .. ~The public will very Inuch regret that Mr. Robe~rtson .found i1t necessary to 1~esign his posi- tion as secretary of the chautber o:f colunierce. J\fr. RobPrtson has, by his uniforn1 courtesy and tireless energy in the discbarge of the duties of the office, made a host of friends.\ One of the features of the electrical engineer- ing course is that the stu dents taking it spend eight weeks of the sutnmer vacation doing practical work at the works of tn:e General E:lectric Co1n pany. The tnembers of '99 who are to work there this su'lutner are: Beardsley, Cotton, Brown, Hegeman, Hornsby, Huntley, Lockwood, Lord, MedbeiTY, Miles, Pruyn, Rogers, Smith, Wilson and Weston. ~COAL. B·UY YOUR COAL, OF W. P. GARNSEY, * COAL.~ Off.ice, 433 State Stree 4 Yard, 229 Park Plaee • ~COAL. ·y · . dress and we $ 3 D S ·sendusyourad- a a . ure. will 'show you how io make $3 a day ; H bsolutely sure; we . fur~Ish the work and teach :vo.u free;you work m the locallt:v where you live. Send us y.ouT.address we will e~plain the buRiness fully; remember- we guar- antee a clear profit of $3for every day's worll: :absolute- ly sure; write at once. ROYAL M.ANtFAC'fl'RING tO., BOX A.. A.t DETROIT, MICH. ~A. EI~O-w-N & SON,~ FURNITURE AND BEDDI:NG ~ ALL~NDS ~ FOR ®'STUDENTS ® USEl THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ONLY ~ELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR AD\VERTIS'ERS'. Dr. Vander Veer of Albany gave a reception last Thursday evening, June 25, to the Convo- cation of the Regents of the State of New York which had for several days been in session at the capitoL Invitations were extended to the , faculty of Union College and others, ,many of •· w hon1 accepted. Gioscia and Gardand's com- bined orchestras furnished 1nusic throughout the evening. Refreshn1ents were serv,ed by one of · .. Albany's caterers. The following representa- tives of the Union College faculty attended: Dr. Hoffn1ann, Dr. Hale, Jr. and P:rof. Bennett. ~~ '-'71 ~ EMPIRE STEAM LAUNDRY, 1 27 JAy STREET I WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per term, strictly V;. in advance. f r ~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - ~ - - ·ttl~ ::::::~·,::~:·::~\·\.,\_\ 6 °.,\;. --------------- ------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- .. --- ................................................................................................................................................................................ - - - - 129 WALL ST., Opp. Post Office. The~argest and finest line of cigars and 1 smokers supplies in the city. THERE A,RE' TWO KINDS OF BICYCLES Columbias and others. There are no untried devices in l896 Col- umbias. Every detail has been perfected by at least a year's use. Beautiful Art Ca;talogue for f896 of Columbia and Hart- ford Bicycles is free if you call upon any Columbia agent ; by mail f:rom us for two 2-cent stamps• • POPE MANUFACTURING CO. Factories and General Officest Hartfordt Conn. Branch Stores and Agencies in almost every city and town. If Columbias are not properlyrepresented 1n your vicinity let us know. WILLIAM 'DOBER~MANN, --- Gf\TERER FOR--- EDDINGS, .. • • • L::::::::.=---8U PPE RS, El'C. VARIETY OF ICE CREAM AND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND. . • • • • FRIED OYST1R8 $2 PER HUNDilED. • • • • DoBE~MANN's ~ESfl1AU~ANJI1 104 ~ 106 Wf.ILL STREET. 0'Yste¥ Stew in Pail to take Hom,e, 25 cents. Oyst~¥ O'l' OZam FTy in a Bo~, 25 cents.

