G~NG~RDIBNSIS. VoL. XIX. UNION COLLEGE, JUNE a, 18H6. No. 16. from professor flsl]more. . exaggeration to say that the stars and stripes ·.were to be seen floating there most of the t~ime. \V\r e are fortunate in again being able to pre- · But gratifying as this was to those who were sent our readers. with some extracts front Prof. • theFe from beyond the sea, the impressive thing Ashn:1ore's letters to Dr. Raymond concerning ' about it all was the scene itself. You may read the Olytnpic ga. 1 nes. \vVe a1:e sure that they .. about the contests themselves, and the men who will prove of great interest, as have all the :; took part in them, in the New York papers- othet~of his letters. They are both from Athens, probably in far greater detail than I could give the .first being dated the 13th and the second the ·• you. But the ancient Stadion reconstructed on 17th of April. :, its own lines, of which the indications are q_ uite \I fear I have not tim~e for much of a letter. . sufficient to ·make its renovation an easy matter, During these days .of the 'Games' things are i -the 5o,ooo spectators seated within it, and the pretty well crowded together, and each hour in 1 hill-tops about the ancient hollow cotnpletely the day is filled with sotnething. To see every- •· hidden from view by the people gathered there thing is impossible. Moreover we did not reach ' to catch a glimpse of what was going on below, Athens in time for. the opening of. the Gam<es. -the wild excitement that prevailed when the But the most important occasion-that of Friday, runners can1e in from Marathon, and the win- April ro-fell within our allotted time here, ; ner of the race was known to be a Greek-all . and we congratulated ourselves that the Greek : this, added to a well founded belief that the steamer which we took from Brindisi landed us : scene. and its setting were, at least in their gen- at tl'le Peiraeus on Thurday evening. The con- .• eral features th~ same as those with which the tests of Friday took place in the Stadion, at 3 ~ old Greeks wet~e fam~liar at their Olympic and o'clock in the afternoon,. and we succeeded in • Panathenai.c festivals, gave a zest and meani-ng obtaining very good seats. I would not have. to it all that on]y those who were lucky enough missed it for a good deal. The contests them- to see it can appreciate. All the Greek men selves were very much like others of the kind. here-Richardson, Wheeler, Waldstein, An- Few of them were distinctively ancient. In • drews, etc.-pronounce it a great success.\ fact the only contest that was so-the casting · * * * * * * * * the dlscus-had taken place on a previous day, \ The ' Games ' here have occupied so tnuch and was won, not by a Greek (as it should have time and attenf,ion that seeing other things has been), but by an American, who had never · scarcely been possible. Apart from the ' Games' seen a d-iscus before. The foot races, steeple themselves there have been entertainments of chase, running 'high jump, pole vaulting, and various sorts, in the way of dinners; receptions, even the wrestling, one may see at any titne at . illurninations, torch-light processions, and 1he our college gaines at hotne, and it is an interest- like, given chiefly in honor of the athlete8, ing as '\vell as iRspiring fact that nearly all of • which have attracted the curious and interested, these events were won on this occasion by · and tended to block the schemes of persons Americans. At the entrance to the Stadion wishing to see Athens, and to do a little work there was a flag-pole, at the top of which the · of permanent value to then1selves.\ The King nationality of t:l-:1e winner was indicated by the gave a lunch to the athletes last Sunday, of flag of his country, which was ~'broken\ there which a detailed account was to be seen the next at the conclusion of each event, and it is no day in the local French papers. His Majesty

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. see:ms to have been especially complimentary to persons practically selected by themselves, frotn the Americans in the speech that he made on · that time to the present. W aid stein,. though of this occasion, and indeed the good feeling German extraction, is a native American and a existing between the Greeks and Atnericans graduate of Columbia College o( the class of '76. generally is very marked. The. American school His position here, and his work here is· general here appears to be well to the front .; and if it · and interesting, especially because, while he is is \ranked'' by the German Instiiute as far as · so much engaged in attending to matters that its scientific standing is concerned, it is certainly belong, so to speak, to other nations, he never first in general favor and in social prestige. loses sight of the fact that he is an American. Sclenti.ftcally speaking, Dr. Dcerpfe1ld (director He told me an amusing story about hitnself this of the Ger.man school) is at the head of every- . morning, which I will repeat even at the risk of thing. How he may be esteetned otherwise I · taking too much of your tirne. He was invited do not know. He is at present away some- • last evening to dine to-day with a certain where in the Peloponnesus. But in everything Baroness frotn Russia. An invitation from the connected with the gatnes, as weH as with all . Crown Prince to take dinner with him this social functions immediately associated with the .· evening forced him to write to the Baroness and latter, Professors Waldstein, Wheeler and · withdraw his acceptance of her invitation. Richardson seem to have been only less promi- . Shortly after he had accepted the invitation of nent, active and interested than the Crown · the Prince he received a message from the King Prince, Prince George and the King. Last ·. \commanding\ him to dine at the palace. evening the Crown Prince gave a supper to the · This necessitated a letter to the Prince wherein athletes in the Hotel Grande Bretagne-a .sort of . he was obliged to express regrets corresponding reception, for the guests did not sit down. It to those which he had already expressed to the was quite noticable however that .tl1e Princes Baroness.-But the favorite with the people, and sought the society of the young men frotn · the man who tnanages n1os.t of the minor detaiJs Princeton, Harvard and the Boston Athletic connected with the performance of the contests Association, ~in preference to the athletes frotn· . in the Stadion is Prince George-a great big other parts of the world. This was natural and · fellow of about 22 years, and six feet four in his ''proper\ enough if you choose ; but it was . stockings. He was the cynosure of all eyes in rather amusing at the thne, and significant too, 1 the arena, for he could be distinguished easily I thought, of n1any things. The republican among the judges and umpires and he seems to spirit is strong in Greece ; there is no aristoc1~atic be ubiquito~s-shaking hands with ''the boys,\ class to come between the King and the people, and encouraging thetn in their efforts to win. and a man who contributes in any way to the But I have said to much about royalty, and supposed welfare or development of the country · my excuse must be that within the last four or may find hilnself hob-nobbing with royalty as · five days royalty has been so prominently in the with an elder brother.. Perhaps no .man has had foreground here that not to see it and be amased more to do with the organization of the Olym- ' has been difficult.\ pic games, and ~he settlement of the question . SIDNEY G. AsHMORE. relating to this quadrennial reception at Athens · than· Dr~ W aldstein, Professor of Art at the American school. His natne has not appeared · Prof. Truax showed great presence of tnind in print as ·often as those of others, but he has , one day last week. He was going through Jay been the power behind the throne, both figur- : street and saw a horse running away, with a atively and literally, for it was he and Prince · small child in the carriage.. He ran into the Constantin who arranged the preliminary meet- :' street and caught the horse by the head and, ing of the International committee at Paris in • after being dragged a distance, succeeded in 1894, and carried the movement forw~rdthrough · stopping it. A to S1 a . Vl e'\ . 'Sl. h( . Cl ti' nc R lY n S< to\ a: 0 s~ h c p sl . 11 fi c n a e n v t] c n s a t

.. THE •C·ONCORDIENSIS. 5 . not been a good one (I) Because of her aggres- JlHiSOQ-Foote prize' Debate. · sio.n in India,. Africa and America; ;( z) Be- The Allison-Foote prize debate between the . cause she b.ad v·iolated the rules of international Adelphic and .Philonlathean literary societies • law; (3} Because she had used bad means. took place last .Friday evening at the State .· Canada would not hold as an example, for the Street Methodist Episcopal church. There was . home government has no vo·ice in her doings. a good sized audience present and thev showed ·• India is no better since the English Went there; ,much enthusiasm by frequent app1a~~se. Re- •• China is no better since Engiand forced opiutn . upon .her ; Africa is no better since rum was vitt's orchestra furnished the music during the . . :'.· forced ~into the country. eventng. The question was . \R esolve'd that the aggres- Allen, '98, then spol~e for the affinnative. He ' ' .. ·sive policy of England during the past century ~, said he was to say a few words upon the wei- has been in accord with the higher inte1·ests of ', fare of 25o,ooo,ooo souls. Before Burke set up civilization.\ The A del phics had the affinna _ :: the En~lish poUcy of to-day India was productive tive side, of the question, the Philomatheans, the :; of nothlng ; to-day she feeds the world. Every- negative. The former was repr,esented by '! W~le~e there are internal improvem·ents, and she Roscoe rGuernsey, '96, Herrick C. Allen, '98, ;: stll~ IS on th_e roa{! _to progre~s. The English and Zeeikiah L. Myers, ' 9 6; the latter by Wm. ,i pohcy_has gtven Indta schools tnstead of heathen H. HaU, '96, George B,. Young, ' 9 6, and Geo. :! worship; England has freed India's slaves ; A. Holcombe, '98. Each man :spoke twice, ,, Engla?d has freed India of havoc and despair. his opening argutnent being limited to six ! All thts shows her progress. tninutes, his closing argtunent to four., 1 Young, '96, took up the argument for the President Raytnond 1nade a few prelirninary , negative. He said that England's aggressive remarks concerning the nature of the two ! policy had not been to the best interests of societies and the donors and then announced the : civilization in India, Africa, Turkey and two presidents of the societies, who in turn \ America. He said that England was always announced each of their men. Guernsey, '96, :· breaking the rules of internation~l law and opened the argument for the affirmative. He !' pointed to Jameson's raid-as an example. Eng- said that England's policy was the opening of : land has always ·encroached upon the Dutch in her territory by establishing colonies, and that South Africa. In the acquisition ,.of India Eng- civilization requires such. Every uncivilized ,· land committed some of the rnost dastardly people should become civilized. if he ,could i: ,crimes every recorded in history. It was owing show that England had by means of her colonie!» , to England's promise to protect Turkey from increased civilization, his point was won. He , Russia that the Turks had comm~itted the Ar- first took up Canada and showed how that ! menian atrocities. Turkey would not have country has been developed from a supposed , dared allow it if Russia had had power to inter- nothing. Then the English goverament has, fere.. She has also extended such a policy to always treated the Indians with respect and has : the western continent and has been oppressing establisl1ced schools and hospitals for them.. H,e : Venezuela of late. next turned to Africa and contrasted it to-day : Myers, '96, next spoke for the affirmative. with what it was .before Englishmen went·. He said Jameson and his South African crimi- there. He closed with a few remarks con- nals did not represent the English policy and cerning slavery. · that he was to discuss the benefits England had Holcombe, '98, opened the argument for the done to humanity. England went into Egypt negative. He defined aggression as not acqui- in I 88r not to oppress the people but to restore sition of territory, but it is unjustly attacking order and she has to stay there now to .keep and forcing other nations. He said he was order. It was not earth-hunger that drew her to prove that Englands aggressi-ve policy had there, but it was for the cause of good govern· ' •

6 THE CONOORDIENSIS. ment :and hun1anity. He then contrasted the stopped when the United ·states says ':'stop.'' Egypt of to-day with that of those days and . The aggression is aH for the sake of hade and showed how cotntnerce and finances. increased. has not :ehanged frotn what it was a century ago. Where the English :Hag goes the n.1issionaries Allen, '98, charged the aflh:mative w'ith p~ay­ nlay follow, and this is the case in New Z:ea- . ing on the prejudice against England. He said land. 'There the natives were not driven out, but ·that England was not to blame for the Ann·enian land was bought from then1 and treaties n1ade. massacre, for she never pro·mised to punish In consequenc·e the inhabitants of that island are . Turkey. The butchety in India was t:h.e work advancing, and we now ~ee thetn intelligent • of :men who had lost their reason at seelmg their people. He closed by referring to Austl·alia. : loved ones murdered. He would not palliate . Hrall, 'g6, then took up the negative. He :. wrong doing but these outrages had no :con· said the millenium had ·come if England was nection with governmental policy. doing all its opponents claimed that she was. Young, 'g6, next spolce and denied that Eng- The crimes committed in India, the forcing · land had done much for India. The former of opium into China and rutn into Africa are educational system ;bas been steadily opposed surely not in accord with the best interests of •· and 250 out of 280 ~millions ·can not 1:ead or civil:ization. They were not necessary. If · write. When India shall become enlightened tnore peaceful means had been used, the same · the English will be cast out. England bas been end of colonization would have been ac- · neutral in religious matters and by her cowardice complished. He then cited the case of Com- • caused the Sepoy rebellion. The natives are modore Perry and the way by which. he opened heavily taxed to pay rooo officials who spend up Japan to A!m·erica. EnglaRJ c_ould have . their money in England. done the same. She went to Egypt because Myers, '96, the last speaker for the afHr,mative, she was invited by the Khedive and not ag- declared that England's policy had not been a gressively by any means. The aggressions were bullying one and cited as illustrations Australia in India, Africa and China. She has violated and New Zealand. In Africa the Dutch killed international law wherever she went and she has never failed to oppress the people at the same time. She never keeps her word, but lies and fills her ·coffers by means of atrocities and op- pression~ This surely is not in accord with the best interests of civilization. Guernsey, 'g6, commenced the rebuttal for the affirmative by defining aggressive policy as a policy of push and extension. During this century Canada has been developed in pur- suance of this policy and money has been con- . tributed by the parental government. The Venezuelan question has not been settled and · Dr. Jameson's raid was promptly disavowed. A policy which developed Canada, explored . Africa .and reclain1ed it for civilization, and abolished slavery must be considered beneficial. Holcombe, '98, for the negative drew a dis- tinction between progression and aggression and said that the question was not one of push . but of policy. England never attacks great powers but bulldozes weaker !countries, and has the natives by ru n1 and violence untH England . had stepped in and stopped it. India could not come to an ideal state in a day, but the ag-gressive policy of schools and railroads has greatly ad- vanced the condition of the natives. ·To benefit humanity is surely in accord with the higher interests of civilization. Take away the results of England's policy and see what India would be. The debate was closed by Hall.. '96, who clain1ed that the negative had proved three points : England has violated international law ; her aggressions have been atrocious and were not the work of a few soldiers but of govern- mental policy ; England could have used other means. He recapitulated the arguments of the negative, denied the points tnade by the affinna- tive, and closed by saying that if the aggressions were placed in one side of a balance a.nd there- sults in the other the results would be far less than they ought. The committee, cornposed of Rev. Dr. Graham, Edward C. Whibnyer and G. the to: bef lU( enj to tht on Tl th< an G1 th:~ . lUJ as llli Bt Bt D~ to G: R M p~ p( PJ H H S: V\ ~ lY.l A A at C< rl: fi

and said nish liate osed or been are tive, a illed not . ad- gher who law; the sions re- less ed of THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 Dr. TrtlaX'$ Ceetu res. Concerning the course of lectures that Dr. Truax finished a few weeks ago at Salem the Revi'ew-Press of that village makes the follow- ing remarks : G. W. ·Gibson, retired and when they returned the prize for the stronger argument was awarded to tl1e Adelpbk ·society, and the prize for the best single speech to Mr. Allen, '98. Dr. Ray- 1nond presented the winners with documents . entitling them to the prizes which wiH be given • to the:rn at ·Cotnm,encel!l.1ent. ·CQ·omm~QcecneQt Bal'l. '' On Friday evening, May Ist, the last lecture in the University Extension course on ·. A-m,erican Literature, wa.s given by Dr. James R. Truax. This lecture on Whittier, Whitman Elaborate arrangenu,ents are being made for · • and Lowen, as poets, was a beautiful ending to the Comn1ence1nent BaH which is to take place a series of discourses which, while fonning a on Wednesday, June 24., in NottMemorial Hall. · most harmonious whole, were each complete, The comrnittee is n1aking every effort to eclipse . taken a~ one. To the people of Salem who have the ball of last year and the present indications . been fortunate enough to listen to Prof. Truax are that it will be the best ever given at Union. for two seasons, no comment need be rnade on Gioscia and Gartland's full orchestra will furnish the interest he gives to each author and his tb:e rnusic and Owen of Utica will do the cater- writings, nor to the thoroughness which he puts ing. into his work ; the testitnony comes from many ·The ladies who wilt serve as patronesses are that these lectures have aroused an earnest de- as follows : . sire for the best authors, and the best books of Mrs. Levs P. Morton:, Mrs. A. V. V. Ray- · those authors. The attendance at these lectures 1 nond, Mrs. W. C. Anthony, M·rs. Charles was good, and the attention invariably perfect. Beattie, Mrs. Samuel Benedict, Mrs. Daniel Butterfield, Mrs. G. W. Clowe, Mrs. John H. Derby, Mrs. John A. Dc;:Remer, Mrs. J. New- ton Fiero, Mrs John Foster, Mrs. G. W. Guernsey, Mrs. Edwa1·d E. Hale, Jr., Mrs. Rufus King, Mrs. H. T. Martin, Mrs. Warner · Miller, Mrs. Howard T. Mosher, Mrs. John K. Paige, Mrs. Jarnes L .. Patterson, Mrs.· Maurice . Perkins, Mrs. I. B. Price, Mrs. Charles S. Prosser, Mrs. J. V. L. Pruyn, Mrs. Benjamin H. Ripton, Mrs. J. H. Stnitley, Mrs. James H. Stoller, Mrs. Alonzo P. Strong, l\1rs. Sarnuel Terry, Mrs. James R. Truax, Mrs. E. W. VanVranken, Mrs. W. C. Vrooman, Mrs. William Wells, Mrs. Edward H. Winans and Mrs. Thotnas W. Wright. The comtnittee consists of Theodore Van W. Anthony, chairman; Archibald S. Derby, Albert B. Van Vranken, W. Lancelot Terry and Roscoe Guernsey. Frank A. Beach, Secretary-elect of the inter- collegiate movement of the Y. M. C. A., ad- dressed the college Y. M. C. A. on \North- field,\ May I 7. 5t}eta Si~ma Girls EQtertaiQ. The Theta Sigma sorosis of the Union Classi- cal Institute, gave a very delightful entertain- ment, followed by a reception and dance, at Arcade Hall, on Friday evening, May 22. A great many of the college students were in attendance and all speak very highly in praise oi the hospitality of the young ladies. The entertainment was a very unique and enjoyable affair, the farce, \ Champion of the Eve,\ being received with exceptional good favor. The dance which followed was a very pleas- . ant part of the programme, and it was quite early in the morning when the happy young people broke up the party. Gioscia furnished the music. The young ladies who took part in the enter- taintnent were: The Misses Veeder, Ostrom, Horstmann, Teller, Goetz, Kruesi, Van Slyck, Kriegsman, Van Vranken, Witbeck, Strain, Alexander, Van Deusen, McMullen, Kuhn, Schoolcraft and Boldt. '·

THE CONCORDIE·NSIS. \ fl]e fT\eaQiQ9 of ~:iuilizatioi].\ Franklin H. Giddings, ''t7, Professor of Soci- ology at Columbia College, gave a lecture in the Chapel Wednesday afternoon, May 20, ~n '~The Meaning of Civilization.'' Prof. Gid- • dings expressed his pleasure at renewing his . associations with his Alma Mater, and said in part: '' In recent times we have heard a great deal about the duty of civilized nations, and the thought of possible ·,complications leading up to a war between the two greatest English speak- · ing nations has filled us all with horror. . . In this connection it may help us study the or,igin of civilization and the transition from the tribal to the civil system of government. Just as men who had for a long time studied prob- lems of anatomy or biology, by comparative methods, saw, as a flood of light, that in history could be found the answer for curious fonns and survivals, so in a study of society we have a flood of light, suggesting that in Genesis and Evolution, 1nay he found the reason for sotne of the perplexing anomalities. We are lead to ask, 'what was that first form of hu~an society that could properly be called a com- munity '? Unquestionably the first organized communities were little hordes living in caves or camps. When for rnutual protection three or four hordes united into one greater aggregate · there was a tribe. At this time, by .a natural process, was forrned a division of the tribe known as clan, composed of a group of relatives tracing descent through only one line. This tracing of families for generations in one col- lateral form of descent, usually matromytnic, was the old Gentile systen1 of relationship and society. Then a systetn like the Roman Gens. became the foundation of human society and government. All these little groups were anitnated with a strong consciousness of kind and this was broadened by the federation of tribes that was necessary for their tnutual pro- tection and advancement. The feeling that we speak of as ''fraternity\ was widening and all within a federation were regarded as kinsmen. Each of these little groups regarded its own laws as unique -embodiments of wisdom. But from time to time men left their paternal com- munities and for ctnnmercial or other purpoHes . .. ' JOlned thetnselves into a town or city. Not- withstanding the loss of land and kin thousands went, for economic reasons, to foreign places, and the relative status of these emigrants and the original patrician land holders was, and has been the most important municipal question. . It became necessary to incorporate 'these aliens · into the body politic, and after several plans had failed, Cleiosthenes invented one that was a success. The old tribal and clannish distinc- tions were retain.ed, in accordance with them geographical divisions were named, and the aliens were adopted into the clan in whose · division they resided. Thi& was the transition fro1n the tribal to the civil syste1n of govern- ment. When this incorporation became neces- • sary tnen were forced to see that as strangers adopted the language and custotns of the country they becam,e one, if not in blood, in the · spirit. Out of this spiritual oneness would · come through marriage, a new and broader unity. The meaning of this was to substitute an ideal to be ~ealized for a traditional system, and that is the true meaning of civilization to-day. When a civil state was formed, its first task was to defend itself against the bar- barous outside. That task done, we find that the energies ofrnen began to expend themselves in development of criticistn and investigation. Following this began the period of industrial activity when man used his power over nature in converting nature's resources to his own uses. In studying the last great task of man we come back to the original question. It is the conviction of most men and women that this great industrial success is bringing about the separation of man from man, of kind from kind. The great idea of philanthropic endeavor is to bring about the assimilation of the conflicting elements. The reality of the brotherhood of man is the _realization of the true ideal of civili- zation. The subsiitute of an ideal to be realized rather than a tradition to be maintained is the essence of Christian ethics and of higher civiii- zation. It should be a leading feature of ~tudent . 1 \' s s ( r t I ' r r ' ( I t ] ( ( . ] 1 . (

• • t THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 and college life to fix much a.ttentio.n upon the ideal, upon that which is yet to be realized. We should keep before our eyes the many- sidedness of life. No coUege, I atn proud to say, has had in this respect a better record than Old Union. It will be the wish, the achieve- nlent of every son of Union college to live up to the words of that puvest a.nd best of patriotic . poets, Milton, ' Nor l·ove tlily life, nor hate, but . what thou livest live wen.,, • To THE ALUMNI oF UNION CoLLEGE: Your attention is called to the accompanying announceLnent of the exercises of Comtnence- . ment Week. The classes of '36, '46, '56, '66, · '71, '76, '86 .and 'g6, will hold their re-union on Tuesday, Alumni Day. It is hoped that many who are not members of these classes will take this opportunity to l~eturn to their Alma Mater and show their aHegiance to the old · college-and begin its Second Century. The attendance of a large number of graduates will do much to help strengthen the loyalty and increase the enthusiasm upon which the work of the ·ruture so largely depends. It will greatly assist the comtnittee of arra.ngetnents if you will write to the chainnan, Mr. Howard T. Mosher, signifying your purpose to be present at the Alutnni Dinner on Tuesday. The progratnme of Commencement week is as follows: Sunday, June 27-7:30 P.M. Baccalaureate ' Sermon by President Raymond. Monday, June 22-3 P. M. Grove Exercises by the graduating class, under the Old Elm Tree in Jackson's Garden. 7:30 P. M. - Alexander Extemporaneous Prize Debate, and Junior and Sophomore Prize Oratory. Tuesday,' June 23-9 A. M. Meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi Societies. ro A. M.-Meeting of the Board of Trustees . and the annual meeting of the General Alumni Association. I 2 M .-Balloting for a Trustee to succeed U1e Hon. Stephen K. Williams, whose t~:rm of office . exp1res. I: 15 P. M.-· · Alumni Dinner in M'emorial Hall. 3:.30 P. M.-Class day Exercises of the Class of '96. 8 P. M.-· Concert in the Van Ctu·ler Opera House by the College Glee, Banjo and MandoHn Clubs . Wednesday, June 24-10 A.M. :Commence- ment Exercises and Chancellor's Address by the Honorable George R. Peck, of Chicago. 8 P. M.-President's Reception. 10 P.M.-Senior Class Reception ~in Memorial Hall. Unless otherwise stated aU public exercises will be held in the State Street Methodist Episcopal Church. Th~ Garnet board has been organized and will consist of the following men : 'Charles D. Griffith, Phi Delta Theta, Edit()r-in-Chief; Harry E. Barbour, Sigtna Phi, Business Man- ager; Miles E. Merriman, Psi U psi:lon, Asssist- ant Business Manager; Perley P. Sheehan, Alpha Delta Phi, Literary Editor; Fred W. Hild, Delta Phi, Athletic Editor; WiUiam C. Yates, Kappa Alpha, Art Editor; Harvey R. Hover, Delta Upsilon; Robert S. Hoxie, Chi Psi ; Herrick C. Allen, Phi Gamn1a Delta ; Allen B. Andrews, Beta Theta Pi. Prof. McKenzie has recovered from his recent · illness and is at college again. Atnong those present at the presentation of \ The Rivals\ by Joseph J eiferson and his star cast at Albany last Thursday evening- were Prof: . Reeves; A. S. Derby and M. A. 'fwiford, '96 ; E. P. McKeefe, W. E. Merriman~ Jr., S. G. H. Turner and C. J. Vrooman, '98 ; F. J. Bone- steal, L. T. Bradford, G. C. Foot, Robert Hall, W. G. Kellogg, J. P. McLean, S. C. Med- berry, Wentworth 1\ucker and W. M. Wilson, ' 99· . ' . '

10 THE CONC·ORDIENSIS. THE CoN·coRDIENSJs. PUBLI5HED ON ALTERN'ATE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE, COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE :STUDENTS OF UNION 00LLEGE. BOARD OJJ' EJJITOJ!l~: MAJOR ALLEN TWIFORD '96, .E<litor-in-Chief. up before the next number,. the notice given in chapel is recalled and emphasized, that the names • will be published. It is hoped that no such . measure will be necessary ; and yet it is no more than right that those students who subscribe for everything and pay for nothing should be exposed and future managements warned. THE Allison-Foote debate is receiving just · praise from all who heard it. Never once during ·• the whole affair was there any lack of Interest or .: enthusiasin. The whole exercise was exceedingly . • entertaining and was well appreciated by the , audience. H·ood as the debate was last year this · one was even better. All of the speakers did .. excellently and too much cannot be said in praise •. of the manner in which they handled the question. . ' They all showed earnest study and honest effort · in their preparation, as weU as excellent judgment ' in their presentation. This part of the college WALTER L. HUGGINS, '96, .. Business Manager. , WILLIAM H. HALL, '96, LUerary Editor. Enw ARD E: DRAPER, '97, A,sst. Business l\Ianager. F. PACKA~D ,PALMER, '97, l II. c. '}'ODD, 97,,. I H. H · B. ROWN~ .97, }- Assistant Editors . A. H. BIRCH, 97, I R. D . FULLER,, '97, J' D. Woon, '97, CARL HAMMER, '98, ) WILLIAM D. REED, '98, }· P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial Staff. F. Boss, '98, J E. S. BROWN, TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, Law ,School. $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE. 15 CENTS. Address aU communications to TKE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. • exercises is bound to qecome one of the most interesting of the whole college year. Throughout all the college world there is an increased interest · in the work of debating in. preferance to simple oratory and this phase of college work is bound to increase from year to year. Nor need Union be ashamed of her progress in this line, for the ex- , hibition given last Friday evening demonstrated beyond a doubt that there are here debaters able to cope with any team that any of the colleges Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. =================:::;::============ ·. could produce. Subscribers are requested to Inake checks pay- able to Walter L. Huggins, Business .Manager. QHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND ·BINDER, 8CHENEC1'ADY • :N, Y, A NEW and decidedly pleasing fea.ture is to be · NOTHING .can exceed the beauty of the college added to the Commencement progr.am this year; grounds as they are at this season of the year. and that is a glee and mandolin .club concert · The recent rains have made every thing as fresh Tuesday evening. The opera house has been en- · as possible; while the green waving grass, the gaged for that evening and a most excellent pro- . ov~rhanging trees, the gray walls, and the creep- gram is sure to be presented. The idea of having . ing ivy and woodbine all combine to make the such a concert at such a time is bound to please · whole campus one bower of beauty. Nor is it the every one and to be enjoyed by all. The clubs immediate surrounding,s that irnpress one alone, have never before been so good as they have been but the whole prospect both far and near. The this year and they deserve the place given them .. hills encircling the valley, the river winding · through, the golden sunsets and the banks of clouds complete the picture and make a setting To ALL alumni who have not paid their sub- · that gives the college and its campus a peculiar scriptions bills have already been sent and a charm. Whether at morning or evening, by day nu1nber of them have responded; but there are or night, the scene is most beautiful is bard to still quite a number who have not and those we · say, for each has its own particular charm. We would urge to please do so as soon as possible. greet with delight the first clear rays as they pierce The present management has only one more num- the foliage of the eastern pines, we admire the ber to publish and is very anxious to settle all ac- . bright shining sun of mid-day, we are filled with counts when it ceases to control affairs. Those ecstacy at the golden flood that overflows the who have not paid when the next nnmber is issued western valley, and we love to dream in the will have their papers marked a.s a. reminder. •. evening's ·moonlight. Cm~tainly these June days To the attention of the students who do not settle are the best of the year.

THE CON'OORDIENSIS. 11 . Tf]e tJortljfield ·8'tad~Qt5 \p:ryf((:r~QGe. To FJ.~FEH true student the suinruer weeks foliow- I ing the eloseof a college year do not present them- selvesas a, favorable time for idleness, but rather for a healthful change which will seeune to him Several years agG> a student of one of our not only needed rest, hut physical, mental and , prominent :colleges was 1·iding in the train with moral stimulus. The summer schools in :connec- . Mr. Moody, and asked pennission to visit tion with universities and with various educational . Northfield that. he might study the Bible with and :veliigious movements afford excellent oppor- tunitiesfor spending at least a portion of the sum- ·. hitn. Mr. Moody, in his charae:teristic way' mer in a very profitable manner. •. told him to cotne and bring one hundred The fraternity of Christian coHege, students, . students with hitn. About one hundred students known. .as the Intercollegiate 1\1ovetnent, which is •• went to Northfield that sun1m,er., and the work now WQdd-wide in its extent, initiated the system ' proved so profitable that an annual confelience of :students' summer .eonfere. ,nces which have be. - t bl' 1 d and 1- annuaolly 1 ·nct·eas·ed , was es a · IS 1e . uas . ·, · , ·c.. . · · . • come so indispensable to the Ohr.i:stian work in : L . .. the colleges on this continent and have extended , ast yeat there were over soo students .as- their influence to the student fields of Europe and .' sembled. There began a wod{, fro,m whtch Asia. '·'Northfield\ is a familial' and popula1· \: have sprung like gatherings in the West, the word among the students of the east. F1or the • South, in Great Britain, Germany, Scandinavia, ~le~enthsuccessive season ~r. D. L: Moody h~s; India and Japan, and which has deepened the Invit€d them to meet near his home In the beaut1- . 'r't 1 1·.c: f tl sa d of st d'ent'- and t 1 as . . . , • . i spt 1 ua lte 0 , ·lOU n S U .' · ~ a, ' ful C()Dll@Cticut Valley for nine days of :conference, .· . . . h . . 1 ~l f h y Bible study and recreation and indications point : gtven sue an tmpetus tot le WOl { 0 t · e oung to th€ usual representatio~ of between fou.r and : J\1en's Christian Associations in our colleges five hundred studen-ts from the universities, and especially to the .Bible Study Department. colleges and ~chools of the United States and Can- : The conference is intended to assist in carry- ada.. !I'omi~e':t spealc~rs representing all lines of . ing on more effectually the Christian work of Chnst1an .activity have· already b. een secured and th 11 b k · · t r st mong . . · e co ege, y awa en1ng an 111 .e e a . · • · othe~s :are yet to be announced. Provision has . ~ . . . . . . . II b been made for the supervision of the athletics to the students foi that work and especta y y which t:he afternoons are wholly devoted.. The emphasizing the hn portance of daily devotional Bible cla~ses, which asre made such a prominent Bible Study. Students are trained in tnethods featur€ of the conferences, are to be in charge of of studying the bible,, so that they are not only unu~ually stro.ng men .as leaders, and the miss.ion- benefitted individually, but may be cotnpetent ary u1-terest will secure a good share of attention. t d t th b'bl t. ·d fth· .11 . A l t 't' . 11 f . t' o con uc e 1 e s u y o e co ege. s u:sua , oppor un1 1es WI occur or associa Ion . and conversation with repres·entative student Lastyear Un1on sent twelve 1nen to North- leasders, as well as with men of recognized ability . field, and as a result twelve men returned in intellectual and religious fields of wo1·k. The . trained to conduct dasses in bible study, and names of the following well-known speake1·s, who enthusiastic for the general work of the associ- already have been definitely secured, indicate the . ation. About thirty-five men have been en- nature of the provision which has been made by d · d ·. . . : ·. .. · . 1 th 0 , 'll D t t f' th 1 t t' 1 C gage In otng tegular wotk In these c asses, e o ege epar men o e n erna Iona om- mittee of Young Men's Christian Associations: and we expect that next year a greater number Rev. Alexander McKenzie, D. D., Cambridge, will take up the work. The work as outlined Mass.; 1\Ir. Cbas. T. Studd, B. A., Cambridge for the ensuing year will be as follows: Seniors University, '83; President Francis L. Patton, will study the Old Testament or some portion Prineeton Universit~ ~; P~esi.dent ~errill E. Gates, of it, Juniors will.take up the Epistles of Paul, Ambel·st College ; 1\lr. Robert E. S peet•, New . . . . . Y 1~ ·O.'t . R R A rn ' C·h· . M SophoiTIOleS will study the Book of Acts W1th orn ·. 1 y, ev. . . _._ o1rey, ·Icago , r. . . David McConaughy, India ; Rev. Harlan p. espectal reference to the Ltfe of Paul, and Fresh- Beach, Springfield, Mass., while Mr. Moody wiU men will study the life of Christ. The ·Confer- preside as usual at tl1e platform meetings and will ence will be held this year June z6 to July 5. speak from time to time, • Co:x, '95, was in town Sunday, May 17. Some of the younger professors took a · drive to the Helderbergs on Monday.

12 THE OONCORDIENSIS. ;iere acyd T~e.re. crowd. The rnajority of the throng were satisfied at once, but one member was so incensed that any one should dare to wet his exhalted plumage, that .And still another membet· of our illustrious he rose in his wrath and hurled a stone a.t one of :Board has distinguished hin1self'; though this •. the windows. Then noticing our Business Mana- might more properly be called extinguishing, for. ger with head extended from the window and in it the above mentioned person was nearly· wreathed in smiles, he proceeded to cast another drowned. It seems that one of our meru bers has · miniature flag-stone at that window. Bis aim was recently become exceedingly interested in the . such that the stone struck the very spot. where our study of botany and makes trips every afternoon ; B. M's. head had recently been. It was then the in search of specbn.ens. While on these trips be : latter's turn to act and rushing forthwith to the is accustomed to carry a telescope dress suit case. .scene of action he proceeded to speak in un- Ou this particular occasion, in eompany with a'. measured ter1ns of disgust to the irate Junior, friend, he was in the region of the ponds east of He even caused that gentleman to remQive his hat the city. They eame, in the coqrse of time, to a · and to lay it low in the dust. Could so:me phono- srnall creek that must be forded. The friend graph have been present it would, without doubt, sprang across, but our botanist decided to go · have a very interesting conversation to repeat. further down towa.1~d the pond and there attempt· Another point brought out was a new rule that a crossing. At length he found a desirable place . was ennuncia,ted by the officious Junior, and that and gathering up aU his strength,. with one Inighty was, that no one had ~ny business to have his bound he leaped for the opposite bank. His feet head out of the window any way. However, we gained the desired spot ; but alas, his head was understand, that that point was settled l'ight there. not so light and overbalanced his lower portion so • There is just one moral to be drawn frolll: this in- that he fell backward into the depths below. The , cident and that is for the benefit of til'tose who water was fully three inches deep aud as he lay : have 1nisjudged the patience of our Easiness De- for a minut.e in perfect helplessness, flat on his . partment. Remember, there is a limit :and do not back, his hands a,:nd feet tossing in the air, he in.- . drive bhn to extremities whether in regard to the deed presented a pathetic picture. But his heathen · business of the paper or in other ways. friend only leaned against a tree and laughed. while the case of speci1nens floated quietly away . into the pond. The future editor, however, extricated himself and was then so wroth that he Greenman, ex-'96, was in town May 22. Miles and Barry, '99, were in Saratoga over Sunday. for a time intended to dmnolish his companion for · his rude sport. He was dissuaded, though, and . then proceeded to remove his clothing and wrii1g tbe water from his trousers in order to return to . the college in good condition. W. G. Brown, '95, was in the city last , Sunday. Prof. Opdyke spent the vacation at Willian1s- .And at last our genial Business Manager has be- d h b town, N. Y. come arouse , .. as even ecome angry; so very . much so that he bas had a desire to express hhn- . Frank P. S. Crane, 'So, was in the city on self in very strong language. Trained through. May 18-zo. long months of adversity in connection with the: H. C. Todd, '97, spent Saturday and Sunday business department of this paper, it was thought in New York. that his patience was inexhaustible. But when, : The Golf club has been duly organized and only a few days ago, a certain student set out to : officers elected. throw stones at his head, as it protruded from his· own window, then he objected. ·The whole mat- : Prof. Mosher was in Washington for a few ter was this way. A number of Juniors were con-. days last week. versing in very emphatic terms in front of South : Perkins, '98, spent Sunday with his parents College; they were even waxing exceeding warm : in Lynn, Conn. in their discussions and there seemed danger of a · Noel, '99, after an extended illness is once riot. A.t this point some peaceful minded citizen • of the fourth floor, in order to quell further : more in college: trouble, thought to sooth their ruffled spirits and · Tucker, '99, spent a few days in New York, for this purpose emptied a pail of water into the week before last.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 Robert C. Alexander, '8o, was in the city a few days recently. Collins, '95, recently spent a few days with . friends on the hill. M. H. Strong, '96, spent Saturday and Sun- day at Lake George. Dr. Reed A. Sauter, Med. '95, has opened an office in this city. Haviland, '98, spent Sunday with his parents · at Glens Falls, N. Y. Little, '97 and Parsons, 'g8, were at Willianls· town during the vacation. Jam,es W. Veeder, '93, has been appointed canal collector at Waterford. Kellogg, ~99, spent week before last at New York and Washington, D. C. Delaney, ex-'98, now of Holy Cross, is doing good work on the track tean1.. Mr. Closs of Rose, N. Y., was the guest of· his son Closs, '98, May 2L Mr. A. E. Twiford of New York visited his brother M. A. Twiford, '96, last Saturday and Sunday. Prof. Buck has returned to his home in Boston, having c?mpleted his work with the Senio~rs. Ctarke Winslow Crannell, '95, of the Mall and .E'xpress, spent May 23 and 24 with friends in the city. Dr. Raymond will deliver an address at the Com:mencement of the Etnrna Willard school at Troy, June r o. Prof. Prosser's class in geology tnade an exa- mination of the rock formations at Hofhnan's Ferry, May 22. Rev. J. V. V\ 7 emple, '92, has accepted a call to the pastorate of the Presbyterian church. at ·. Ballston Centre, N. K. Charles H. Hill, '84, died in New York city last week. He was fonnerly proprietor of the · Gloversville Standard. There will be no examination in Latin at the Clements, ~95, will spend the sutnn1er in Sche- end of this term, for Freslunen. . nectady. He has been at Auburn Theological Barry, '99, was absent from college a few . Seminary for the past year. days last week on accouat of sickness. A new fence adorns the Park Place side of Charles Baxter of Eln1ira, was the guest of S. the pasture. The old fence that was torn down G. H. Turner, '98, on May 15 and 16. ·• had been there for 30 years. Peacock, '99, went to New York last Thurs- . Cregan~ '99, added renown to his name on day and remained there until Tuesday. Satu1·day last by winning the half mile race at Bradt, '99, has left college to accept a position •. the Schenectady Driving Parle in the Union National Bank of this city. Professors Edwards and MacKenzie attended Beattie, '96, has resigned his position of basso ' a Latin play given at Boston by the students of in the Congregational church of this city. ' Boston University, May 19-20. Breeze, '99, was called to his home in Au- Prof. Prosser conducted a geological · trip burn last week by the illness of his sister. · to Howes Cave on May 23d. He also conduc- Clinton Ball, ex-'97, is making a prospecting ted one to Saratoga on May 3 I st. tour through New Mexico and California. Prof. Edwards has been giving his classes C. W. Clowe, '96 and H. C. Todd, '97, at- . some very interesting lectures on the Latin play tended a dance at Gloversville on Niay 15. which he saw in Boston recently. Charles P. ·Crumb, ex-'97, of St. Louis, Mo., . M. H. Strong, 'g6, A. S. Derby, '96 and H. visited college friends a few days last week. A. Frey, '97, rode to Sandy Hill on their wheels The Senior examinations ended last Thursday • last week and retnained over Sunday. and tnost of the Senio1·s are now out of the city. George T. Hughes, '93, has been promoted Sands, '98, has recovered from his recent ill- , from telegraph editor to assistant managing ness and is now in training at Traver's Island. editor of theN. Y. Mall and Express. George C. Foote, '99, was called home very • The. Freshmen taking French will have no unexpectedly last Friday by the death of his • exatnination on the subject at the end of the sister. term, longer lessons having been substituted.

' j ' 'l ' i. 14 P.NTRONIZE OUR A.DVERTI8ERS. Dr. C. P. Linhart while on a bicycle ride :to . Albany, broke the sprocket wheel when ·seven miles from his destination, and was compelled to walk the rest of the distance. Bayles, '9 5, who has been attending New Brunswick Theological Seminary for the past · year, has been asked to conduct Sel'vices at tb.e • Prospect Hill Chapel during the summer . • TENOGRAPHY. ~i~ DICTATION TAKEN AND ' NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORA 170NS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COP/B.D. B. E. HUGGINS, 22M. S. S. C~ ALL WORK CONFIDENTIAL. 33 N. S. S.c. ESTABLISHED 1818. BR:O·OKS BROTHERS, Eroadway, cor. 22d St., N. Y. City. Clothing and Furnishing Goods, REAllY MATIE AND MADE TO MEASURE. S[I?RING AND SUMMER, 1896. ~~~~::S::$~~~~$~·::s;~~~·s. The sha·.pe, ·style and fi- ni·sb of our· Ready 1\Kade ...... ·-····-········· .. ····•· ..... ~ .•.•..•....••.... ~···································· .. ·······························-· .. ·························-··.. l.t.l.. l) w w (9 (fJ (fJ w 0 ....) _) ((} 0 ~ C) UJ .. >- n:: w z: 0 - ~ c( }.-\ Cll Gar1nentsfor Men, Boys and Children, continue, we believ.e, to show improvement and at prices that will {~ompare favorably with articles much inferior in material and worl\:n1enship. We have, besides the usual full stock of suitings, a complete line of \K:nickerbockers\ reinforced and plain for Riding and Golf, Morning Coats, Riding Vests, &c. In our F:arnishing D~partrnent will be found novelties in Fancy Half Hose, Scotch Long Hose and rich brocades for Scarfs to order. Shetland and Fair lsle Sweaters. Many of these goods are in confined patterns and cannot be found €lse- where. Catalogue, sainples and rules for self-measure- ment wilt be sent on application. Our loca11ion, o11e block from Madison Square, is conveni€nt to the leading hotels and easy of access f1·oru the principal railway stations in New York and vicinity.

THE CONOORDIENSTS. 15 GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE 'TO THOSE~ WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNIO·N. ::e:I:O:S:.lNa:O~D St:raight Ou.t ::t'To.. :1. O:iga:rettes:. Cigarette Smokers who are ~illing to pay a little more than the price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will :find THIS BRAND superior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately flavored and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. 'f'nis; is :the Old and Original Brand of St1'aigb.t Cut Cigarettes, a11d was brought out by us in the year :r875. - BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observe: that the fir·m name as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER\, The American Tobacco ·con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, :E;eJ:O::E:JMI:O~, V:IEGI-:INJ:A. E:LECTRIC ~~·ciTY ~~ TROUSERS -;y~ CO., --~--E_._F_._D_A_LY_. _·_·~;- , 'I j; Ge()rge Clute appeared on the campus Wed- nesda.y -tnorning with a new Buckeye mowing ,machine. H·e says it cuts magnificently and wiN rnake the grounds look smooth as a floor. ;: Rev. Dr. Teunis :S. Hamlin, '67, and his i: wife were given a reception in Washington on : the occasion of the tenth anniversary of his con- nection with the Church of the· Covenant in ; that city. ! George Young, '96, has accepted a position as teacher in the preparatory department of Robert College, Constantinople. This is the same .college in which G. E. Pollock, '96, has a~ccepted a position and Young will accotnpanJ him and Hall, 'g6, on their tour before be- g,inning work. COAL. c·OAL. '\-- . ·BUY YOUR GQf\.L OF * W. P. CARNSEY, • Office, 433 State Stree~ Yard, 229 Park Place. COAL. FINE Cu.STon' TAitoRINQ. · tluits, $10 Up. Trousers, $4 Up. Overcoa.ts, $16 Up. Drop a postal card and our representative (C. E. HENNESY) ~ill call. ~ Next uuor to Barhydt House. ~A. BRO\LVN $ 3 0 - s Send us your ad- y · · dress and we a a u reI Will SbOW you. bow to make $3 a day; absolutely sure; we furnish the work and teach :von free ;you wol'k: in the locality where you live. Sene;] nR your addrese we will explain the buRineAs fully; remember we guar- antee a clear profit of $3for every day's work :absolute- ly sure; write at once. ROYAL lllANlJFA.CTt:RING CO., DOX A. A.., DETROIT, 1\liCH. FURNITURE AND BEDDING ~ ALLC:mns ~ FOR ® STUDENTS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

16 THE CONOORDIENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR A.DVER.TISERS. Clinton W. Clowe, '93, is the guest of friends · in this city. He has just graduated frotn the New Brunswick Theological Setninary and will shortly be ordained into the ministry. H. M. Pollock, '95; who i~ studying biology and modern languages at the University of Leipzig, has been assigned thQ subject ''Water Mites and Hyrachita\ for original investigation preparatory to a degree. The Rev. Dr. and Mrs. E. C. Lawrence of Quoque, L. I. wet·e on the hill last week visit- ing their son, A. B. Lawrence, '99· Dr. Law- rence graduated from Union in '69, and for four years held the chah· of Higher Mathematics. ~UJ .--g- EMPIRE STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per term, strictly V:.. iu advance. f,.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ·~~ - ::a:o::esTJMI:.A.l:'r~\S - - - - - - - - . ::::: ... ::::.. .. :::.·::::·::::.,;:: .. ·::~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::.·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;::::::::::::::· --·----------------~--~------------ ....................................................................................................................................................... ol .... ~-- ........................... _ .............................................................................................. ;·········································································· .. - * .~--- - - - 129 WALL ST.,Opp. Post Office\ The largest and finest line of cigars and smokers supplies in the city. No Guesswork About ,Columbias The Department of Tests of the Pope Manufacturing Com- pany, with its Emery Testing Machine of l 00,000 lbs. capacity, has no superior, :even among the Govern- ment testing stations. Expert Engineers and Metallurgists watch everything that enters into Columbia con- struction. There .are no untried devices in the Columbia. That is why ~ ~ Jl ~ ~ Columbia Bicycles are Standard of the World Art Catalogue of ·poPE MFG CO fifty pages for · · . · · · ' · ' • • two 2-cent H :£ d C stamps. $&· ~ att10t , · onn. WILLIAM IDOBERMANN, ---CATERER FOR --- EDDINGS, .. • • • ~~-&UPPERS, EJ'G. VARIETY OF ICE CREA_M: .A.ND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND •. .. , .. FRIED OYSTERS $2 PElt HUNDRED. . ., . . 104!!! 10' VIALL .STREET. Oyster Stew in Pail totu-1ce Home, 25 ~e'ltts. Oyster or Olmn :Fry i'n o, ..Booo, 25 ce'ltts.

--ADVERTISEMENTS. -- 17 READ THE .ADVERT[SEMENTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. WA ,~'·' '\ ~· ,,,' ' ' , ' . . • FOR SALE. • J ,fQR TO LEAS'E. MANUFACTORIES.~ AND DWELLINGS. \ . Dwelling Houses and Flats Excellently Located, Adapted to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union Colleg-e. :85 BORDEN AVE., LONC IS'LAND CITY.

18 --ADVERTISEMENTS. -- LET OUR ADVERTISERS KNOW YiQU ARE COLLEGE MEN WHEN DE'ALING WITH THEl\f. ~J 0 ~ ·• FOUNTAIN PENS,~·. -~-·- ~==-­ tr: tr:1 . ......l ~ ~- b 0 z ~ Q ~­ [iJ, ~- liJ: ~­ b ~ > ~ rQ M (f) ~ (JJ -~ 0 0 ~ . 1. LEVI:::N:E, Van Curler Opera House :Block. LOWEST PRICES. m_tJ_Jt_'l_L._E _.&_S_O_N ___ -~ ~ * &QRAYEKS, * AUGUST SCHMIDT, ShaJing~ &-Hair Dressing : OJJP• Edison Hotel {up stairs.) · USE A.. SCHU:IDT'S · ~EW JI~C~VE&Y FOB 1HE HAlB. A certain C\lre for Dandruff, Scalp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. PHOTOGI{APHIC SUFPLIES •.. i Of aU kinds for Frofessionals aod Amateurs. · Full lines of Leading Makes of . . ... ~am~ras, Dry ·plat~& aqd ~ard ~toe~· At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of .Customers. Q:EO. H. <i\lf.IRDlNEER, Successor to J. N. McDona.ld. ~ 80VV'ENIR,·SPOON8, ~-·- ~ FLAG P,IN8, E'fG. ----~--- SA :N fl E R S' dEW !E·L,E R,S, 233 S\fA'T'E ST., SGH·ENE:C'fADY. f't. Y BA11tiYTE & l11~VENPECK, . . . . . Wholesale and Retail Dealers in ee}tL -:- ANB -:- W00D _Coa,~, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Gr~in, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M. C. A.~======--. -Htc ~ESJFflU~rlN~, jt~ --===-==-==CoR. ST A '1E AND FERRY STs. -ile6t iJiinncr in the -i§itg :For 2S i§ent6. ~Meal Tickets will be sold to Students only ... \ .. . . . ••. for $3.00 for 21 Tickets. WILSON DAVIS, .... MJ£R.CKANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544: Broadway, A.lba:ily, N. y 237 STATE s.- .... ScHENECTADY N.Y.

G®NG®RDIENSIS. VoL. XIX. UNI,ON o:oLLE'.GE, JfUNE 1'7, 1896. No. 17. trial of :strength with Spraker., was always beaten. E'oth boys being from neighboring Athletics as a distinguishing feature of college • communiti:es, White was particularly desirous life has arrived, and is here to stay. Its roots : of exulting over hi>s successful competitor. The are imbedded so deeply, and its hold upon : two graduated together, neither one probably poputar favor so manifest, that it admits of: ever imagining they would meet again to try conclusi:ons in a raoe. · divers doubts if its opponents of the older generations ever succeed in removing it from its · At th·at time the construction of the Erie soil. There are still many who adhere to the • Canal was in rapid progress, and had reached \ birch and rod\ system, and they feign would . completion .as far as the vicinity of Canajoharie. have us believe that these days of spirited . The newiy made tow path, .smooth and hard, athletic contests are wholly .a product of the • afforded an excellent opportunity for the young declining years of the century. For the benefit , men of the neighborhood to try their speed, not of . those who are strong in its defense, and only among themselves, but a~lso vvith strangers especially for those who clamor loudest for engaged upon the canal. The pastime became the suppression of the so-called \innovation •. exceedingly popular, and each favorite son took I inv·ite your indulgence while I relate a story. pride in his abilHy to perform his part in the The following incident actually occurred at race, and to rece,iva the applause of his backers. Canajoharie, in the tnonth of August, 1824: . Joseph White, then across the 'mountains at While the story has passed largely into his. horne in Cherry Valley, thought this a favor- tradition, yet I doubt not of its authenticity, and able opportunity to challenge and defeat his that there a.re still a few gray heads to be found opponent of college days. After training him- in the villages along the Mohawk, who, when self for the effort, he sent a challenge to Sprakers boys, were witnesses of the feat I relate. . for one moTe trial of speed before they settled David Spraker of Palatine,. and Joseph White · 'down to life's con1ing cares. Spraker at first of Cherry Valley, were classn1ates in Union . was ill disposed to favor the race, but the solici- College-members ofthe class of 1822. They tation of his friends, and pride in his own Were young men from the best fatnilies in the ability were too strong inducements and he comrnunity. Both possessed marked physical sent his acceptance, the race to come off two btrength, and if we are to believe tradition, both weeks from the time of accepting. It conveys exemplified it frequently while in college. It an idea of the extravagant interest in the forth- was customary in those days for the boys, by coming event, when we recall that one thousand way of re€reation, to test their powers in a foot . dollars cotl:1prised the stakes, and in case of race with their fellow students, it being con- either party failing to enter he was to pay a sidered somewhat of an honor to be- the fas~ forfeit of tV\r:o hund1·ed and fifty dollars. 1.\'here lived at the then hamlet of Sharon a schoolmaster, who was somewhat of a profes- sional sportsman for that early tirne, and knew sotnething of the method of training for a race. Sprake.r engaged the schoolmaster, whom tradi- tion caBs a Mr. Deill, to train him for the occason. So intense was the interest of the man in college. '\'- The distance was usually short, often not exceeding fifty or sixty yards. Spraker at the time of graduation had succeeded in winning ·from all his adversaries, and was looked upon , as by far the best runner in college. White ~opld outdis~an~e al~ t)J~ oth~r students, but his

. . ~ THE CONOORDIENSIS. peopte o-ver his race, that the tnaste:r readily · gained the co:nsent of the comrnunity to close :. the schoo•l, in order that he m·ight give aH his ,, All arrangements have· been co,lnpleted for ti!me to Spraker. the exercises otcornmencement week and ·everv- Olil the appointed day for the event, a pleas- :: thing points. to a most ·enjoyab~e <>ccasion. 'Tl;e ant one, a large crowd, a thousand or m:ore ,· past two years there have he.en the special people assembled to witness it. Many fro~m : features of the President's Inauguration and the Cheny Valley were there anxiouB for the sue- · ·Centennial which have turned aside the regular cess of their contestant. The course of 5S : course of events. But this yeai there is only to yards or r65 feet, had been previously nlarked .· be the regular ·Comm,encement, but as it is the off on Montgomery street, and running west- : first of the new century it oug:ht to attract ·a ward:. 'The runners were ready and the judges :: good de~}; of interest. AJI a1urn ni are urged to were to give the signa1 by cou~ting one, two, be back tf possible. The classes of '36, '4<5, '56, three, which 1neant go. At the wo 1 ·d go, . '66,. '76, '86 and '93 will hold reunions. Alumni Spraker who had been carefully trained by the • wiU be sure to register as soon as they arrive, wily schoolmaster, ,made a tretnendous leap, : for the college keeps a record o.f all visitors at gaining much on his opponent. White how- . that time. The procession that ;has been formed ever, being in n1uch better phpsical condition : for the past two years on com:tnencement morn- gained rapidly and was fast closing up the gap •. ing wiH be continueJ; it will fon.n at th~e college when the tape was breasted and Spraker was chapel at 9·30 and march to th,e church. It is in the :lead by three feet. The judges rendered • desired to tnake this procession as large as pos- their decision, and the stakes were turned over . sible so all alurnni and undet~graduates are to Spraker. Thus ended by far the most inter- . specially urged to be ready to march promptly. est~ing foot race ever witnessed between white · 'l'he program of the week is ~republished this m~en in that locality, and the contestants were · issue, together with the narnes of the graduat.ing chu1ns in Union college. · class and their degrees. Spraker became a well known lawyer and · Sunday' June 21-7:30 P.M. Baccalaureate died :at ·Canajoharie, the scene of his foot race · Sennon by President Raymond. in r863, full of days and honor, and is un~ Monday, June 22-.-3 P. M. 1 Grove Exercises dou?iedly remembered by 111 any of 111 y readers. ~y the gra~uating class, under tlie Old Elm Tree Whtte a}so becarne a lawyer and died at West- 111 Jackson s Garden. field, N .. Y., in the year 184o. But whether ? :30 P. M. - Alexande1· Extemporaneous from grief over the loss of the race is not known. Pnze Debate, and Junior and Sophomore Prize G. v. s. , 94 . Oratory. At a meeting of the Athletic Board, Thursday evening, June I I, officers were elected for the com,ing year. Mr. R. J. Landon was re-elected as president and Mr. A. ]. Dillinghatn as tieas- urer. The executive oornmittee will consist of Dr. J. L. Patterson, chairman, Mr. E. C. Angile and Birch '97· Tile Freshman class had their pictnres taken · last Wednesday by Photographer Wheaton. 'l'uesday, June 23-9 A. M. Meeting of the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi Soc~eties. IO A. M.-Meeting of the :Board of Trustees and the annual meeting of the General Alumni Association. . 12 M.-Balloting for a Trustee to succeed the Hon. Stephen K. Williams, wh<}Se te;m of office . expires. I: 15 P. M.-Alutnni Dinner in Memorial Hall. 3:30 P. M.-Class day Exeroises of the Class of '96. 8 P. M.-Concert in the Van Curler Opera House by the College Glee, Banjo and Mandolin Clubs.

THE OONCORDIENSJS. 5 Wednesday, June 24-10 A .• M.. Commence- ment Exercises and Chancellor's Address by the · Honorable G.eorge R. Peck, of ·Chicago. 8 P~ M.-President's Reception. 10 P. M.-Senior ·Class Reception in Memorial HaU. . Unless otherwise stated all exercises will be held in the State Stt:eet Methodist Church. The members of the graduating class are as foHow.s: For the degree of A. B. T.V. W. Anthony, Newburgh; R. B. Beattie, Middletown; J. G. B·eckwith., Litchfield, Conn.; C. W. C1owe, Hudson; D. H. Craver, Albany; G. J. Dann, W~lton; J. H. Dunham, Coila; E. P. Fo~ey, Schenectady; Roscoe Guernsey~ East ,Cobles- kill; J. G. Hilton, Luzerne; Jeremiah Wood, May Held ;: Howard Mallery, Middleburgh ; M. H. Strong, Schenectady; C. 'T. Taylor, Mul- berry, Kan. ; A. B. Vos~;ler, St. Johnsville; D. M. West:faU, Jr., Cambridge. For the degree of B. S. B. ·H. Boorn., Sche- nevus; Z. L. Myers, St .. Johnsville; A. L. Peckhatn, Schenectady; Geo. E. Pollock, North Argyle; A. T. G. Wemple, Princetown; W. L. Terry, Walton; M. A. Twiford, Coopers- town; A. G. Somtner, North Tonawanda; G. B. Young, Cobleskill. For the degree of Ph. B.. J. B. Anderson, Catnbridge; A. S. Derby, Sandy Hill; Wm. H .. Hall, Kailamazoo., Mich.; W. L. Huggins, Salatnanca ; R. B. Rowe, Clarksville; A. B. VanVranken, Brooklyn. .For th,e degree of B. E. C. E. Cleaver, Unadilla ; J an1es Herring, Walton ; C. H. V os- burgh, Palatine Bridge-; G. L. Van Dusen, Argyle ; H. M. West, Glens Falls. In dt·earHy peace old Dorp doth :ue Beneath her dome of silver sky ; And save the ever-~mournful strain Of dyi:ng winds, and sweet refrain,-· A n1andolin's soft. qu.iver,- Of brooding night, the silken thrall Doth wield dominion over aU Alongthe Mohawk river. As sof1ter sinks the whispered note Of lis :ping stream to languid bo~:tt; Then o'er my spirit, lightly steal The eharms that pagan spirits feel When freed from Stygian shiver;- For ne'er more true did Lethe roll To cheer a sorrow laden soul , Than ~does the Mohawk river. -P. P. S. '98. /fl\asical .RssociatioiJ. The ·musical clubs are holding rehearsals daily in order that they may be in prilne con- . clition for the concert to be given Tuesday even- ing of Comim~encement week. . A concert at this busy time in the college year • is a decided innovation, and everyth:ing points to a grand success, for the 1nanagement is • assured of a large patronage by the aJutnni and the friends of the graduates, besides the usual . attendance from the city. An advance sale of tickets is being n1ade by . the students, and the chart for the engagement ~ of reserved seats will be opened at the Van •. Curler, Monday 1norning, June 22. · At a recent m·eeting of the association the .•. following officers were elected for the coming Hon. Wallace T. Foote, Jr., '85, of Port • year: President, S. Elmer Slocum; vice-presi- Henry, has been repotninated by the Repub- · dent, Charles C. Ballard; manager, H. C. licans of his district for Congresstnan. Mr. ·. Todd; assistant manager, Roger D. Sinclair. Foote so outclassed his only opponent in the : At this meeting it was decided to adopt some field that he withdrew in the Essex county con- 1 insigna that will denote 1nembership in the vention, and he was renotninated unanimously , musical assodation, in oi·der that an additional at the district convention. Mr. Foote has served .· stimulus may be offered to men trying for one term ;in Congress and has the record of being : positions on the clubs, and so that the success- the handsomest man there. He is the youngest :: ful candidates may be designated by an emblem tr\-l~te~ of th~ college. . distinctive of their positions,

THE CONOORDIENSIS . . upon the written order of the m,anager. of ,that ' associat~ion and the :chairman ·of the Executive con1mittee; all of his accounts shall ·be kepfin At a rneeting of the Athletic Board held a book prepared for the purpose., which . hook Tuesday evening, June 2, and at a college n1eet- shall be 0 pen for inspection at any dme to the ing Friday morning,, J· une 5, alterations '\vere · tnem.he~r s, of the board. made and ratiHed in the constitution and by- Sevea. ~members of the board shall constitute laws of the board. The paragraphs under ...sec- . a quorum for the transaction of business pt1o- tion II of the constitution which were amended, ~ead as follows : vided -one Faculty memhet·, one Alumni mem bet,.., and one undergraduate me:mbe.- be The board shall be cot11posed of twelve tnetn- present. bers, natnel y; the president of Union College, Imrnediately after the ra~i:ficat,ion of the above ex-officio, three tnetnbers of the Faculty, four : amendrnents at the college meeting, Turnet·' 98 Alumni P.ot tnembe1rs of the Faculty, and the tnanagers, respectively of the Football, Baseball • was elected assistant FootbaU manager, Mr. A. and Track Athletic Associations and a fourth , J. Dillingham was re-elected as one of the rep- .. resentait ives of the Alumni, and Bh·ch '97 was under-graduate, who is not a me1nber of any athletic team. elected as the fourth undergraduate representa- The three Faculty rrtembers shall be elected · annually by the Faculty. The Alumni association, at each annual meeting, shall elect one rnember to serve three : years; except that ~tt their annual tneeting in : June, '96 they shall elect one rne1nber to serve : two years and one 1nen1ber to serve three years. : 'I'he undergraduates shall annually elect, from the Sophomore class an assistant manager of the Football association at their second regular tneeting in May. The undergraduates shaH annually elect, fron1 the Junior class bef{)re February first, an assist- ant manager of the Baseball association by bal- iot of Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores. The undergraduates shall annually elect, from the Junior class before the first Wednesday in October an assistant tnanager of the Track Athletic association by ballot of Seniors Juniors and Sophomores. The undergraduates shall annually elect from the Junior class at the last regular meeting in May, a fourth undergraduate who shall act as · secretary of the Athletic Board and as a mem- ber of the Executive comrnittee of said bQard. The paragraphs under the by-laws which were altered read as follows : The treasurer sh~ll pay out monies for gen- eral purposes only upon the written order of the Executive cotnmittee; he shall pay out money for the expenses of a single association only tive. On Friday evening last, Yates' Boat House was the scene of a very pretty da nee given under the auspices of the Musical Association. This is the second year that the Musical Association has held a dance, and judging from the success attaineCI it promises to become a social function of the s:Pring tenn for years to come. A boat seventy devotees of terpsi;chore were in attendance, and danced to Gioscia's music until an early morning hour. Those from out of the city weTe: Mrs. Belden and Miss Starr of Gloversville, Miss Hutnphrey of New York. From the city were: Nrs. R. J. Landon, the Misses Grace Watkit1.s, Charlotte Barker, Madge Campbell, Marcia Johnson, Eleanor Miller, Dora Yates, Susan Yates, Rachel Yates, Gt·ace Horstman, En1elin e Westinghouse, Grace Walker, Jessie Horsttnan, Hortense Cooney, Gertrude Clute, Leah Frame, Ma1·y Landon and Beulah Shir- land. Dr. Raymond delivered the address at the cotnmencement exercises of the Emma Willard school ~t Troy on Wednesday last.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. \{ Myers says he will remain at ho.m~e and rest (Jass of '96.--UIQC(re Tl]ey U/i II ~0 J~Jter • for the sutnm~er months preparatory to teaching G ra:dv a ti I]Q. next fall. Mallery wiU be bnm:e at Middleburgh for the Co:rnmenc_e~ment Hme is always; one of parting · sum.mer and in the fall has accepted a position and scattering; hardly two of the class go in the .. 0 f teacher. same pirection. Each starts in his own way in Dunha1n expects to stay at ho m.e for the sum- life and foUows the path leading toward the . mer and enter Auburn Theoilogical Seminary ]n special profession or business he has ~hosen. As .· Septernber. far ~s could be learned at pres·ent the class of , Pechham spends most of the su.mmer at Lake '96 vvill go as fol1ows: . George and goes to a rnedieal college in Phila- . D·erby will spend the summer abroad. , delphia this fa]l. Rowe is to he at his home in 'Clarksville. Pollock says he will sport till August when Sh·ong is to ren1ain in the city probably. he sails ior 'Constantinople to instruct in tnathe- Terry will teach during the coming year. . matics in Robert college. Van Vrankin expects to study medicine. Craver is uncertain where he will be .duting Herring will engage in engineering work. the summer but expects to enter Auburn Thea- Foley goes to the Albany Medical next year. logical Seminary in the fall. he .will Albany. Beckwith will enter the Harvard Law School Hilton has thought little as to where Cleaver will follow his profession of engineer. spend the summer but may remain in Clowe studies law at his home in Hudson, N. He go~s to Auburn in the fall. Y · . Vossler has accepted a position as professor West expects to accept an engineering post- in a preparatory school in Denver, Col. and left tion. for that place Tuesday, J nne 9· Westfall will study law in his father's office Anderson will spend the vacation at Cambridge. home in Cat:nbridge and wiU enter the at his Albanv Twi.~ord is to be at Temple Grove, Saratoga School of Phat·macy in the Fa_ll. for the summer· Beattie is undecided where he will be during \ .. Anthony is going abroad for the purpose of · the stun mer months but will spend the next three studying German. years in the Auburn Theological Setninary. · Van Dusen will probably take a position in Hall will visit his horpe Kalamazoo, Mich., the Edison Works. for a few weeks and then leaves fo.r a Beirut, Sommer is to study law with Patten & Vroo- • Syria where he will teach in the American col- man .at Tonawanda. lege of that piace. . · Young goes to Constantinople as an instruc- tor in Robert college. Wemple has been appointed assistant city engineer of Schenectady. · . Taylor will study law at the. Missouri State University, Columbia, Mo. Huggins has accepted the position of night clerk in a hotel at Seabright, N. J. Guernsey will remain at home this sutnmer but will teach at York, Pa., next year. Dann has been appointed assistant principal of the Delaware Academy ot Delhi, N.Y. Vosburg will recuperate at his home during the summer and wilil do engineering work next fldelpl]ic ElectioQ. The meeting of the Adelphics held Fr.iday, June r 2, for the election of officers restllted in the following ticket being elected. A. M. Blodgett, '97, president ; J. G. Putnatn, vice- president; C. Lord, '99, secretary; and F. Schmitter, '99, treasurer. The society will soon come into possession of a valuable catalogue of the members of the so~ ciety, published in 1830, through the kindnes~ of Mr. Sweezy, of Jackson, Mich.

1 h THE ·OONOORDIENSlS. Professor Truax, after a most successful co1- UII]~'re t~~ Fa\Uity Uli:U 8peQd u,e .vaGa- • legiate year in the English Department, that ' has embraced ten different courses in Literature, will recuperate at Atlantic City and the White , Mountains. If the sutnmer school is opened he Our faculty will be widely ·separated during ; will however remain at his post as head of the the approaching vacation. Whil:e some will ; · Department of the English Language and Lit- tour abroad others wHl represent '' Oid Union\ ; :ti:OIJ. erature, during its session. in many of the brightest spots of the Eastern : The busiest one of the Faculty will be Pro- summer resorts of our own country. StiB others • of our faculty will conduct the classes of the ! fessor Prosser. He will be for a time engaged proposed sumtner school in Saratoga, or quietly · in the service of the fifteenth annual report of the State Geologica[ Survey, describing the look after the interests of the college upon the : hill. The proposed summer school at Saratoga has ' materially affected the definite plans of m.ost of • the faculty, but there wiH be m.any a quiet jaunt • enjoyed before it opens, and severaT weeks of· well earned rest after its close. Professor Whitehorne will spend :the summer upon the hill. Prof. Winans will continue his law practice at Gloversville. Prof. Stoller expects to teach his particular studies at the ,Summer School. . Dr.. Linhart will spend a portion of his vaca- tion at Mrs. Linhart's home in Bolton Hills, Ct. Prof. Hoffman expects to spend two months of the summer at Oxford and the remainder of the year in study at Berlin. Professors Patterson, Hale and Mosher will . divide their time between Schenectady and the Sutnmer School at Saratoga. Prof. Pepper expects to be at Saratoga teach- ing at the Sun11ner School. If he should not be required there he will run over to Paris. Prof. Cummings will probably go West on engineering work. Prof. Lamoreau>r will re- . main quietly at home except for a short outing. Dean Ripton has arranged to leave for Europe on J u] y I. He will go to England .and thence to the Continent, including France, Gennany, Italy and Switzerland in his travels. Prof. Edwards believes that \To feel the de- · light of living, and to plow the salt-blown acres of the shoreless deep,\ is the best means of spending the hot summer months. While not engaged at Saratoga he expects to be boating about Long Island. Devonian rocks of Eastern New York. In July he will spend his tim.e in field work an~ in August wHl conduct a ·Geological excursion through the Genesee VaHey. As Dean Ripton will go to Europe this year, President Raymond will spend most of the sum- mer upon the hill, attending to coUege interests. CoHege duties will continuously demand his attention during the summer tnonths and ·he will only be able to make a brief trip to Europe in the late sutn,mer and return with. Mrs. Ray- mond and family during the first week of Sep- tember. Y. Jn. ~. fl. tfaryd Boo~. Among the publications ofthe college, one of the neatest is the Hand Book issued each spring by theY. M. C. A. This little book cotnes very tastily bound in leather, printed on firie paper and containing half tone cuts of the grounds, together with a \'·rite up of the college organizations and a list of aU the· fraternities, clubs and associations. It has much valuable information for students both new and old. The little map showing the principal part of Schenec- tady including the college grounds with all the most important buildings of city and college in- dicated, is indeed very convenient. There is also given a list of suggestions to new students that is exceedingly good. The work reflects great credit upon the comtnittee in charge which consists of A. M. Blodgett, '97, W. H. Hall, '96 and M. G. T'homas, '98. .

h] teafy JuiJa. · 'f'he lazy urchin on his way to school, · With body out of tune, Qaes-tioRs: '' T0 be or not to be a fool ? A wiseacre or loon ? '' 'I'he birds call loudly fron1 the leafy trees, There is no otheif answer to his pleas; What need of V ergil on such days as these ? In .June, in leafy June. 'Tis first the inelination, then ~the will A bout the hour of .noon, With some fair n1aid, to climb the distant hill, Or by the river's dune,. 'iro loiter happily: to sing; to play; ']JQ dream. perhaps_, how .great we grow one day, With Te1npus F'Ugit as a rounddelay, In June,- in lea(y June. Alas, the clangor of the noisy bell Awakes me all too soon; And yet I cannot rid me of the speH- Perhaps it is the moon; I saw her late last night; and she was fu[l, Tbe round June moon-let n1e together pull Myself-· I know 1ny wits are gathering wool In June, in leafy June. ·, Why should this month run riot with our wits? Oh what .a thankful boon If the '\'exams\ that give us all .r nne fits Should come in May ! What swoon Of ecstasy ·our t ntor then would fe~iJ. ! How proud our record! Then we would reveal Xhe kno.wledge that we can't express, but feel In June, in leafy June. C. W. CRANNELL. Y. fn. ~. p.. lUor~ For '96 al]d' '97. When the present graduating class entered college there was no such organization as a Y o,ung Men's Christian Association. A few of the students catne together and held weekly prayer meetings, but it was not until two years ago that t l1e present organization was es- tablished. The benefits arising from such an organization have already been manifest. That consciousness of being a part of a world-wide 'movetnent has broadened our sytnpathies and incited in us a deeper inte1~est in the general 9 work. At the sam~e tin1e we have been able to profit ;much by the varied ,experience of other associations which are working for the same end as we. Since we have been established, the work ha:s graduaHy increased in all departm,ents of the association. The tnembership has increased, it being about sixty during the past year, and the average attendance at the meetings has been about twenty. Next year the Bible Study De- partment will receive especial attention. We believe that there cannot be too much emphasis laid on regular systematic Bible Study, and in accordance with this idea the Bible Study com- mittee has arranged a course that is to be taken up by classes, the Seniors studying the Old Testatnent, Juniors the Epistles, Sophomores The Book of Acts, with especial refe1·ence to the life of Paul, and Freshmen, the life of Christ. There will also be regular work in the Mission- ary Department. The associati:on is interested in every man in college, and one of the ways that that interest is manifested is in the work done for new students. Next September this work will be carried on along the same lines as last but with the aid of past experience it is hoped to make it still more efficient. There will be n1en at the train to meet new men, and at the association rooms there will be a bureau of infonnation where informa- tion concerning board, rooms, etc. tnay be obtained. The Students Hand Book will soon \>e out, and copies will be sent as far as possible to those tnen who intend to enter next fall. Shortly after college opens there will be a re- ception at President Raymond's house, at which all students are requested to be present. The association as a college organization and does much to bring the college before the col- lege world, and is a great factor in tnaking intercollegiate relations closer, and as such is . we believe, deserving of the interest and hearty support of the student body. C. A. Hunt, ex-'g6, recently spent a few days at the college. Mr. Hunt is working on the canal sut·vey and is located.

io TBE 'C·ONCORD!ENSlS. THE C·ONCORDlENSIS. PUBLISHED ON ALTERN'ATE WEDNES])AYS DURING THE CO·LLEGE. YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BO..ARD OF EIJITORS ;~ MAJOR ALLEN 'TWiFORD '96, Editor~ in-Chief. WALTER L. HUGGINS, '96, - Business Manager .. WILLIAM H. HALL, '96, Literary Editor. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business Manag·er. F. PACKARD ,PALMER, '9'7, l H. C. Tonn, 9~, ·~ II. H · BROWN, '97, Assistant Editors. A. H. BIRCH, '97, . R. D . FULLER, '97, · D. WooD, '97, J CARL HAMMER, '98, I WILLIAM D. RHEn, '98, r P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial .Staff. F. Boss, '98, J E. S. BROWN, Law School. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2.00 PER YEAR, IN ADV A.NCE 15 CENTS. Address all communications to THE C'ONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. , 1·ea1 college life is to be found as in this. The class ' reunions,. the· alumni meetings, the exercises them- :, selves, a:nd all the. visitors of the season combine ·' to make .it a :solid week of enjoyment. Then it is that the und~rgraduate has opportunity to learn how one's college days are never forgotten by seeing the joy with which alumni return. At that • time, with the work of the year completed, noth- . ing can afford so n:iuch satisfaction for the year's :. labor as to be free to go in and out and enjoy all the festivi,ties of the occasion. Underclassmen de- light to .go home for their preparatory school graduation exercises, but they will find those of the. college :doubly interesting. Every under- i graduate should make up his mind to attend as : many comKlence:tnents as possible. The alumni get half ;their pleasure in seeing the students; so ~ for the sake (i)f tbe college if not for their own •en- joyinent let tbe ~students stay. Let the fellows try it once and they will never miss another if it is possible for them to be present. THE S'enipr class will soon have left old Dorp, but many oJ us leave behind fond recollections of our home fG>r the past four years. True, aU have had dis91ppointments, but there have been more. ·• than enough joys to overbalance them. The Subscribers a.re requested to 1nake checks pay- • college has been good to us all, and now on the able to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. · eve of our departure, as we look back on our ( record of tli·:e past four years, we can think only Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as ~econd-class matter. • Of the Opportunities that have been SO freely CHAS, BURROWs, PRINTER .AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N. l(, LET everyone plan to go to the concert given by . the Musical Association Tuesday evening of corn- • tnencement week. It is going to be one of the • most pleasing features of the week and will well • r~pay everyone who attends. All were delighted · with the concert given befo:ve; this promises to be • even better. FROM the JJetroit Legal News we learn that· Hon. J. Newton Fiero, Dean of the Albany Law· offered u.s . ''J'here are but few men in the class who are not glad to be through their course and to be put upon ;their own responsibility, but there is not one but feels that he is leaving behind him many fond friends and associations. In after years, when we return to our alma mater, our friends may have disappeared, but the associations of the college can never. True Union sons can never forget her associations, and that is what we all are-true blue sons of Old Union. As we pass from out her portals and enter upon a new life our one principal thought should be, what can I do for the college that has done so much for me ? School, was the guest of the Michigan State Bar • The attention of those finding a blue mark Association at its annual meeting.. Mr. Fiero read · a paper on ''The Reform Procedure-Its Advan- •. upon this paragraph is once more called to the tages and its Limitations.\ At the conclusion of fact that their subscription still remains unpaid. the address, Mr. Fiero was elected an honorary . As this is the last number un~er the direction me1nber of the Association and a vote of thanks . of the present board it is necessary that these be was extended to him. paid at once so that all accounts may be settled ALL students should make their plans to stay for the comn1encen1ent exercises. There is no . at the close of the college year. We trust all such will give this their immediate attention and thus enable us to leave our offices to our sue- week in all of the college year when so much of · cessors \vithout any incumbrances.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 11 ·THE ·Ninety-six Board of Editors of the CoN- 'CORDIENSIS .bid farewell to the public with this • ?:>:lj·e 'Offi{I)8I]'G8ffi·t<l)t of t~e VQiiOQ CJag.gj- nnmber. Just one year they have presided over the paper and whether it has been in a satisfactory manner or not is for the readers to decide. The Gal lQ.gbi tv:t~. )36ard has tried to edit a first class college Journal, T'he prize speaking and graduating exercises one that would stand well with any of the college . · papers! A few new features have been introdnced of the Union Classical Institute will be held at and have bee·n received with favor. The paper ·• the Van Curler Opera House, Thursday even- bas tried to deal with fairne~s in all ·questions · arising,: and the· very. few co1nplaints that have .• ing June 1 8 at 7 =3°· The contestants for the De Rerner prize are Miss H·elena Kriegesman, Mae DeGraff, Mable Ostrotn, and Lueva Vroo- been heard are proof that no great partiality has been shown. The work of the Board has certainly · been very p]easant and it wishes to •express its · gratitude to an who have in any way assisted; ·. man; for tll'e Vedder prize, Chas. W. Shannon, friends have been exceedingly kind and have : St. Elrno Goetz, Harry R. Cooper, and Frank helped greatly; enemies, if there were any, have : 1\11\ p 1 Th 1 h 1 l.n.·c' art on. . · · e spea!tcers on t e 1onor stage been very quiet in their criticism, and to all the : :Board expresses its thanks. For the new Editors , are Evan R. Cullings~ salutatorian; Joseph S. the same support and hearty sympathy is asked · Patterson ; Douglass W. Paige ; G.eo. W. and a splendid paper is sure be the result. To the ' '97 Editors the 'm> Editors would extend a hand of Feathe.rstonhaugh; Chas. E. Palrner, jr. E. welcome and- at the saJTie time would lay down . Martin Dings ; the Misses Goetz ; Kruesi ; the burden of the year and would bid adieu to Ca 1 ·y ; Kreuger ; Behan and Vroo 1 nan, valedic- the college world. J1:oiJorary 8oeit<ties. The Phi Beta Kappa society have elected to membership the following 1nen from the Senior · class: .. Roscoe Guernsey, East Cobleskill; Geo. J. I)ann, \\Talton; D. Howard Craver, Albany; D. M. Westfall, Ji·., Catnbridge. The Sigma Xi society have elected Gardiner L. ·van Dusen, Argyle ; ·Charles Cleaver, Una- dilla ; R. Burton Rowe, Clarksville ; George E. Pollock, North Argyle. The meetings of these societies at this time is merely for the election of metnbers ; the annual meeting for election of officers and transaction of other business can1e at con1mencement time. The commencement number will be sent to student subscribers at the addresses given in the catalogue unless otherwise ordered. Please hand all changes to E. E. Draper, Assistant Business Manager. . It has been decided to postpone the list of delinquent subscribers until the last number so that every student, who intends to do so, can pay up. Prornises are of no use unless ac- companied by the atnount due and the list of all in arrears at that titne will be published a5 pre- viously announced. torian. The Class Day Exercises will be held Friday evening at the First Refonned church. The co:tnn)itteee in charge consists of H. Reginald Cooper, Arthur R. Howgate, Evan R. Cull- ings. The officers of th:e class are George W. Featherstonhaugh, president; Jeanette Veeder, vice-president; Paul J. Kruesi, secretary ; Mable Ostrom, treasurer; H. R. Cooper, ora- tor; Emily M. Kruesi, essayist; Chas. E. Pal1ner, historian; Lillian Goetz,. assistant his- tor ian ; St. Elmo Goetz, prophet; Mable Horst .. tnan, prophetess ; Douglass W. Paige, poet ; Helena M. Butler, poetess; Howard P. Dun- ham, grand tnarsbal. The commencen1ent ball will be held at the State Armory, Friday evening at 10 o'clock. Revit's orchestra will furnish the rnusic. The ball comtnittee consists of P. J. Kruesi, W. B. Larkin, R. F. Yates. The Alpha Zeta fraternity held their banquet in their rooms, Tuesday eveningJune 16. The annual convention of the Pi Phi fraternity will be held in this city June 18, zo. The six- teenth annual banquet of Beta Chapter and annual banquet of Gamma Chapter will be held at Hotel Edison, June r8 at 10 p, M.

12 TRE' CONCORD1ENS1S. H·on. Atnasa J. Parker, president of the board of tt·ustees, presented the sev;eral prizes Th . r t fir.tl 1 · as follows.: · · e 10r y- t 1 annua · comrnencem~ent of the Albany Law School was held in Odd Fellows' The Edwin Thompson Company prize. HaH, Thursday evening, June 4 . The large An1erican and English Eneyc1opaedia of Law, anditoriutn was crowded with friends and rela- : valued at $r85, for the gra(!hlate who reached tives of the gTaduates. , the highest standing in the performance of his The exercises were opened with a prayer by •· studies and in deporttnent, b• Arthur J. Ha.m- Rev. N. W. W. Battershall. Then followed n1ond, of Geneva. the salutatory by Arthur J. Hamnlond.. His . 1\he A1nasa J. Parker prize of fifty do:llars in subject was. '''The Possibility of B'etter Gov- •. cash to the graduate who passed the best exa.m- ernment.\ ination during the course, to Charl,es Irving The second oration was delivered by Albert · ·OHver, of Albany. J. Danaher on the subject. ''The Right of One The Frederick W. Cameron prize of twenty- Nation to Intervene in the Affairs of Another.\ . five dollars, to the graduate 1naking the best Williatn G. Brown, Union , 95 , the next presentation of his case at moot court during the speaker with an easy and fluent delivery of his rear, to Fletcher W. Battershalt, of Albany. oration, ''The Suprerne Court of the United The Boston Book Cotnpamy prize, a full. set States,\ captured his audience and won the of ''Green Bag,\ valued at thh-ty-five dollars, to prize for the best delivered oration. the student who delivered the best oration at Edwin C. Brown's topic was ''Our Policy of conHnencement, to WHlianl' G. Brown, of Arbitration.\ He was followed by the valedic- Albany· torian, Charles I. Oliver, whose theme was \The Problein of Municipal Government. The graduates were addressf'd by Hon. Dan- forth E. Ainsworth and conferred with diplo- mats by President Raymond. :hose who secured the tnuch coveted sheep- skins were: Arthur H. Abbott, Gouverneur; Fletcher W. Battershall, Williatn G. Brown ' Albany; Edwin S. Brown, Howard; William ]. Burke, Middletown; George K. Cordgan, Pawtucket, R. I. William H. Daigneault, Al- bany ; Albert J. Dana her, West Troy ; Frank H. Deal, Green Island; John C. Donnelly, Troy; Patrick F. Driscoll, Albany, George L. Gibbs, Oneonta; Arthur J. Hamtnond, Geneva, Charles V. R. Johnston, Geneva; Hennan L. Kelly, Sodus; Peter R. Kilgallen, Schenectady· J ~ ' ohn P. Lee, Dobbs Ferry; David A. Mc- M~ster, Cherry Valley; J atnes McPhillips, Fnends Lake; Henry D. McPhillips, Friend's Lake; Henry D. Merchant, Nassau; Harry J. Mosher, Bainbridge; Charles Irving Oliver, Albany; Louis F. O'Neill, East Greenbush; J. Arthur Perkins, Arcade; John H. Sawyer, Auburn; Scott W. Skinner, LeRoy; John B. Taylor, Troy; William H. T'oohey, West Troy, l.ll)iOQ us. GeQeral :~leatrics. The oollege teatn was defeated on the c~mpus last Saturday afternoot.:l by fhe ·General Electrics of this city Considering the fact that the college · 1nen had scarcely seen their suits for ,atmost two tnonths, the gan1e carne hardly .as a dis- appointtnent. Kelly's throwing and Hayes' work behind the bat were• the rnain ft!atures of the gatne for Union, while the out-fielding of the General Electrics was unusually clean and sharp. Follo\\·ing is the score: R. H. E. G. ~ ......... I 0 6 0 7 0 5 3 X-22 16 9 Un1on ..••••• o o o o 6 o o 6 3-15 16 13 Batteries- ... Moran and KeUy ; Parsons, Sulli ... van and Hayes. Umpire, Meade, '99· At an early hour Monday morning, June 8, a large white flag in the center of which was. 99, in large garnet letters, was seen floating gently in the breeze from the top ()f Nott JVletnorial Hall. It did not retnain there long. 1: I t ,

THE OONCORDIENSlS. Theodore F. Bayles, '95, is going to fiU .. the pulpit of Prospect Hill chapel during the sum- mer. Dr. Raymond was in .Albany June 5 • Beardsley, ' 99 , left for Kalamazoo, Mich.,., Sotntner, '96, was in Atnsterdam last week. Friday, June t z ,. on account of the iUness of his A meeting of the Detnocratic club was held . tl tno. 1er. last Monday. P. Nelson, '98 was appointed on the execu- Hild,, ':98, w·on first place .in the bicycle race , :tive committee of t11e N. Y. I. C. Oratoricail Saturday, June 6. . . League. · Kilpatrick, '98, will enter the Juniot 4 class at .· A nutn'ber of the engineers will spend the P~inceton. next fall. • suu 1 mer vacation vvorking for the General Elec- .. Breeze, ' 9 9, expects to accept a position in . tric Company. this city for the sumtner. . B 1 ,eeze, '99, French, '99, Sherwood, '99, are ~~.tei<nert, '99, is going to enter the A~bany • candidates for assistant business manager of the Medical 1CoUege next -fall. CoNCORDIENSIS. Haggart, '99, spent Saturday and Sunday, Dean Ripton was honored at the ·com1nence~ June 6and 7, on the hill. · m,ent exercises of:Syracus·e University with tb.e . Green~man, ex-'96, was in town last Thursday, degree of LL. o~ visiting :friends on the hill. Tl 1 e Freshman French classes are reading Beattie, '96, is spending the Senior vacation \'La Prise de la Bastille\ in lieu of taking a. at his hotne in Middletown. final examination. ·Barry, '99, won the two tnile bicy...:le race at Hall, ' 9 6, left last Friday for a visit of a few Syt~acuse, Saturday, June 6. days with Dun1ham, '96, at the latter's hon1e in Dey (])e, '98, and Andrews, '98, were in Cambridge, N. Y. Waterfo1·d, Saturday, June 6. Fuller, ' 9 7, Eames, '99 and Fox, '99 were · Han1., '99, spent Sunday visiting Merchant, atnong those at the closing reception of the ex-'97, at his hotne in Nassau. Albany Fernale Acadetny. Van W ortner, '99 has been at his ho1ne in The tickets are out for the concert to be g~iven DunnsviUe for several days past. by the 11usical association at the Van Curler Kilpatrick, '98, attended the inter-scholastic . during cotnmencetnent week. meet at Albany, Saturday, June 6. M. A. Twiford, '96, spent his Senior vaca- Wm .. H. Hall, '96, addressed the Y. M. 'C. tion at Sandy Hill, Lake George, Ticonderoga A; at Amsterdam, Sunday, June 7· and Cotnstocks, visiting college friends. The· Mandolin club will play at the class day The nan 1 e of Jan.1es Herring of Walton, N:. exercises of the U. C. I. on June 19. y., was accidentally ornitted when we gave, the Wingate, '97, will act as toastmaster at the list of stage appointments a short tirne ago. Pi Phi convention banquet this week. About fifteen 111 embers of the freshtnan and Scott W. Skinner, '95, has been itppointed Sophotnore electrical engineering divisions are clerk to :the canal collector at WateJford. going to work at the Edison works during the Rev.}! ohn Gray, D. D., ofKalatnazoo, l'viich., t' sumrner vaca Ion. was the guest of Hall, '96, a few days ago. Professor Edwards will lecture on \Nero\ at Hall, '96, spent Sunday, June 7, with Win- · b M D a literary entertainment to be g1 ven y · r. · ar- . ~gate, '97' at the latter's hotne in Princetown. ling's Sunday school class at the First Presby- Sindair, '98, left for Chicago, June 6, to ac- terian church on June r6. cept a position on one of the Chicago papers. The Mandolin. club are learning several new Breeze, \99 who was called to Auburn by · the death .of his sister has returned to college. pieces, among w hjch are the \Yale March\ N and also a medley \'Good Night\ arranged by Clarke Winslow Crannell, '95, of the · ew • Mt~. O'Neil the conductor of the club. York Mae·z and .llxpress was in town May 30.

14 ·----- ADVERTTSE'MEN:TB. ~ PATRONIZE OUR ADVER'1'ISE:RS. The tnetnbers of the Chi Psi fraternity gave a whist party at their rooms in Myers Block, Friday, June 5· The following guests were entertained: Mrs. Wtn. Vrooman~ Mrs. Strain, l\t1isses l(ingsbury ~ Ostrorn, Truax, Can1pbe:ll, . Kruesi, II alsey, Stra.in, Schoolcraft, Brown. · the Misses Bates, Curtis, Veeder and florst- · n1ann. ~1·TENOGRAPHY. \\':\' J .. lo. ~-cJ; n -~· ;ey 1 ~ DICTA 170N TAKEN AND· ! NOTES TYPEWRITTEN. ORATiONS AND ESSAYS NEATLY COPIED. B. E. HUGGINS, 22 M.S. S.C. Ar.JL WORK CONFIDENTIAL. ESTABLISHED 1818. BROOKS BROTHERS, E.readway, cor. 22d St., N. Y. City. ~ . Clothing and Furnishing Goqds. RE.A])Y MADE AND MADE TO MEASURE. ,} 33 N. S. S.C. SPRING AND SUMMER, 1896. ~~s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ............................ ............................................................................................................................... The shape, style and finish of our Ready Made () w w (9 CIJ CIJ .w 0 _) _) d) 0 :E C) w - >- ~ w z: 0 - l- c( l- (fJ Gannents :for Men, Boys and Children, continue, we believe, to .show improvement and at prices that will compare favorably with articles much inferior in material and workmenship. We have, besides the usual full stock of suitings, a complete line of~! lLrdckerbockers ''reinforced and plain for -Riding and Golf, Morning Coats, Riding Vests, &c. In our Furnishing Departrnent will be found novelties in Fancy Half Hose, Scotch Long Hose and rich brocades for Scarfs to order. Shetland and Fair Isle Sweaters. Many of these goods are in confined patterns and cannot be found else,- wl'lere. Catalogue, sarnples and 1·ules for self-measure- ment will be .sent on application. Our loeation, one block frorn Madison Square, is convenient to the leading hotels and easy of access fl·ofn the principal railway stations in New York and vichlity.

THE O'ONOORDIENSIS. 15 GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE TO THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED IN UNION. J:e:I:O ::S:J:va::OND St:raight C1.:Lt No 1., O,iga:rettes. Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a Little more than the price·charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will ·find THIS BRAND · superior to all others. These cigarettes are made from the brightest, most delicately :flavored and highe~t cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. Thif; is the Old and Original Brand of St;raig·ht Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the year I875· BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, and observ~;; that the fi1·m name as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, The American Tobacco Con1pany~ Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~:~ CITY ~r: TROUSERS ~'{ CO., .. ~ E. F. DALY. ~ru, . .. ~ ·~- ftHE Cu.5Ton' TAiloRIH<:i. duits, $l0 Up. Trousers, $4 Up. Overcoats, $16 Up. Drop a postal card and our representative ((J. E. HENNESY) fViH ca.ll. 149 80. GENTRE SI'RE'E'T'. Next ttvor to Barhydt House. flmof)q t.~e tna~azir]~S· The June Atlantic begins with another install- I;aent of the letters of Dante Gahdel Rossetti edited by George Bkkbeck Hill. Striking features in this i~sue are an article Hpoa The Politician :.~nd the Public School by Mr. G. L. Jones, Supei·in- tendent of Schools, Cleveland, Ohio, and Restdc- tion of I1nn1igrat,ion by President Francis A. Waiker. Other readable art.icles which give this n1nnber a varied interest are 'The Oubliette, one of Mrs. Catherwood's sketches of French Provincial Life; The Bii·d of the Musical Wing, by 1\iirs. Olive Thorne Miller; Orestes Brownson, the c~tholic Atnerican, a sh·iking biogTaphical study, by George Pa1·sons Lathrop; rl'he Opera before the Court of Reason, by W. F. Biddle; Lord Rowe's Con1mission to Pacify the C·olonies, an hnportan t COAL.~ :BUY YOUR COAL OF W .. ~· GARNSEY, * ~ COAL . Offke, 433 State Stree~ Yard, 229 Park Place. ~·COAL. · y · i , dress and we $3 . D s Sendusyourad· a a . u re. will show you ho\'v to make $3 a day ; n bso lutely sure; we furnish the work and teach vou free ;you work in the locality where you live. Send us your address we will explain the bmlineRs fully; remember we guar- antee a clear profit of $'Jfor every day's work :absolute· ly sure; write at once. ROYAL MANt'FACTt:RING CO., DO:XA. A., DETROIT, IUICll. ~A. BRO-w-N & SON,~ FURIII'TURE AND BEDDING ~ ALL~NDS ~ FOR® STUDENTS ® USEl THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. ~0~ ST..A..TE STBEE'J:'.

16 THE OONCORDIENSJS. ONLY RELIABLE ·GOODS HANDLED BY OUR ADVERTISERS. historical eont1·ibution, by Paul Leicester Ford; en1bodying a hitherto unpublished manuscript. Fiction is representfld by a further installmPnt : of H~nry Jan1es'absorbingserial, The·Old Things; a sho~t story of Alaba1na life, The Price of a Cow, by il\I1·s. Elizabeth \V. Bellan1y, and the \\VhirUgig of FortunP, an incident of the French Colnu1une, by 'T. R.usseU Sullivan. 1'be Mandolin club played at the State Artnory the 9th, at an entertaintn,ent given :in h0nor of the County Superintendents of the Poor, vvho wer·e holding a convention in this city. ~~ \\:?)' EMPIRE STEAM LAUNDRY, 127 JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Props. Students' $5 per term, strictly V;. in advance. f r ·~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - - ~ - - ~~ -•••••-•••u-••••-••••••oo•••••••••••••••••••••••U•••••••••••••••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••oN ................ - ................ ~ .......................................................................................................................................... . .................. _.,,. _______ .............................................................................. ~ ....................................................................... .. - - - - - - 129 WALL ST., Opp. Post Office. The largest and finest line of cigars and~ smokers supplies in the city. J Qtimesoutof l Q The New York Journal ~ecently of- f~red ten bicycles to the ten winners in a guessing. contest, leaving the choice of machine to each. ALL CHOSE C I i b- ·. o:um ta Bicycles Nine immediately, and one after he had looked at others. The Journal therefore bought TEN Columbias at .$100 each. On even terms a Columbia will be chosen TEN· titnes out ·of TEN. POPE MANUFACTURING CO. HARTFORD, CONN. 1896 Art Catalogue for two 2-cent stamps. WILLIAM DOBERMANN, --- CA'TERE.R FOR----- EDDINGS, .. • • • .L:::::==.==-._ 8 v p p E R SJ E 'T G I VARIETY OF ICE CREAM AND tOES CONSTANTLY ON HAND .. , , • • • • • FillED :QYSTEI{S $2 PER HTJNDRED. • • • • 104- !!!! 106 WALL STREET. Oyster Stew in Pail to take Home, 2$ cents. Oyster or OZam Fry i'lt a Booo, 25 ce'ld&,

-~ ADVERTlSEME'NTS. ------------ 11 R-EAD THE ADVERTISEMENTS. I'l' WILL PAY YOU. ~==~====~==~=== • • i ~~WA ·cr· ;{ .· ' . . • ··D.-' . ' . ' i FOR SALE. ),. J TO LEA:S:E. MANUFACTORIES ~~ FOR R_ENT ·~~· Dwelling Houses and Flats Excelle1~tly Located, Adapted to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union College. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONC ISLAND CITY ..

• 18 ·-- ADVERTISEMENTS. ----- LET OUR ADVERTISERS KNOW YOU ARE COLLEGE MEN WHEN DEALING WITH THEM. • J .~ 0 .~ ~ ~ b d z ~ 0 ~ w ~ w X b I. LEVI:NE, r :P .!X) ( 0 tr:J (JJ ~· {/) ·~· 0 n ~· Van Curler Opera House Block. LOWEST PRI.CES. (l_ll_Jl_Y_L E_. _&_S_O_N_. , .:._g) ~QRAVERS, * ..._ ___ ALBANY., N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dresstng Opp. Edison Hotel (up stairs.) USE A I SCHMIDT'S NEW DI~COVERY FOR THE HAI&. A certain CtJre for Dandruff, Scalp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. PHOTOGI{APHIC SUPPijiES .... Ofall kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes of . . . . . <eam~ras, Dry plat~s aQd <eard ~toG~· At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. QEO. H. Q\IARDINEEK, Successor to J. N. McDonald. .· UNION COLLECE .:. ·- SA Nf):E RSJ cJ EWE LE 'RS, ,. -. 233 S'TATE 8~ .. , SCHENEC'fADY. :~. Y . • . . . Wholesale and Retail Dealers ir Coa.l, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay,\' Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 3@8 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M. C. A.~=====-- • -Htc ~E~1F7IU~7I]\1~, jt~ ·---====-==CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. inner in the ~§ity ftor 2S ~~ent6. ~Meal Tickets will be .sold to Students only •..••• . . • • . . for $3.00 for 21 Tickots. WILS.ON DA YIS, .... MERCHANT TAILOR, .., . . Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 5~4: Broadway, Albany, N. Y 237 STATE Sr ... . ScHENECTADY N. Y,. t g c I f . 1 t J. ( . J 1

