. J I in y. Tr1n VoL. XIX. G®NG®RDIRNSIS. UNION C:OLLEGE,, JANUARY 15, 189:6. No. 7. n-e-v-e-r sang. Many ~of you sentimental young ladies have been out Late at night with your Eli Perkins has often been criticised about his : sweethea·rts and you listened-i-i-s-t-e-n-e-d-··- vivid inu1gination. The hun1otist maintains that 1 and you were willing to stay there all night- exaggeration is simply the itnagination written i (Iaughter)-if those stars would only sing, but down. Imagination in cold type is .exaggeration. they never sang. The Psalmist did't want to After speaking of things appertaining to the ; deceive you, he only wanted to please yoll with Centennial of the college at the Centennial 1; sweet imagination. dinner, the hu1norist made the following re- :' '' But this imagination is best developed marks 011 the imagination: ; among tnoral, tetnpera:te, Christian people. \·You have no idea,.\ said Eli, \'how much : It's a fact. If I've ·got a fine joke that has to of your innocent laughter comes from the itnagi- !. he discounted twice, do you think I would take nation. Why, all the laughter that a cultured : it to some low slum and give it to a wicked Christian gets cotnes frotn the imagination. i. man sordid \vith whiskey? No, it wouJ:d be There is a kind of low, vulgar herd in the circus .• pearls befo1·e swine. No, I'd wait till r saw and the side-show where the down bumps up ! some . k~en, .temperate: . moral. Christ! an En- against Humpty-Dumpty and then rolls over in 1 deavotet cotntng, and I d tell h1m the JOke and the sawdust, but that don't make you Christians : he'd laugh 'hal ha!! '-and that is his reward laugh-that tn-a-k-e-s you t-i-r-e-d. (Laughter.) ; for being virtuous and good. Be virtuous and \.,.._our laugh~ter comes frotn the hnagination as it : you'll be happy- see more jokes -I know that paints the joy of J\iary at the ascension when : from my own experience. (Laughter.) the pearly gates opened and all the stars sang : \ I've often heard a dear old Christian min- together for joy. ister get off a little sermon in the pulpit, so full \The SV\ 7 eet poetry that makes you laugh and •· of Christian wit and wisdotn to the Christian- cry is all itnagination. Milton's 'Paradise . up in Bible quotations and the hyrnn book, Lost' js the imaginary struggle of angels and . while some wicked, intemper·ate man who never demons in chaos. The Oddissa of Hotner and , read his Bible and didn't know what these the ~niad of Virgil were the soaring itnagina- • quotations meant would be crying-crying while tion of the Greeks and Rotnans in heroic verse. : the Christian would be laughing. I've seen it. Your own Christian Longfellow says: \I knew a dear old Baptist clergytnan in \The sun kissed the dewdrops and they ; Boston who kept hearing about that wicked were pearls. Now that's all imagination. town of Hurley, Wisconsin. Wicked Hurley! \The sun never kissed any dewdrops, and if: Ninety-seven saloons and three churches. Mines it had kissed them it wouldn't have made pearls ' and madness-saloons and sin-whiskey and of them. If that was the case, you shrewd : woe l I say he kept hearing about wicked fan11ers wouldn't tire yourself out in the field .. Hurley in the church newspaper until finally he You'd sit around on the shady balcony, and • was seized with the desire to go there and after the shower you'd go out and roll in those . preach. He had a good church in Boston and pearls. (Laughter.) And the divine Psalmist • drew a big salary (paid regularly), but he was says· willing to give up that salary and go to Hurley '' r. The stars sang together for joy.' and preach the gospel without tnoney and ''Now the stars-they never sang. They : yvithout price-just lik~ a clergyman. No

I .. , '' .. ·; I I . ' > ~ l ' II 4 THE OONOORDIENSIS. lawyer woutd do that-. (laughter) -no doctor · j'{<(W Yor~ fiiUmJ]i. of \ Old U!]iOI) \ Dil]e. would do that-(l:aughter). \Finally he gave up i>is Boston church and . If any one doubts that Union COllege has a went over to Hurley, stayed there six months ' body of alumni in New York that are not and was nearly starved to death. Then, with .·enthusiastic to the last over the college, they sad eyes and empty slomach, he called his •· should have been present at the Eigbth Annual church togetbeF to hid them a last farewell. .· Re-union and Dinner of the Alumni Association \ ' B·t·ot·l·le··t·s. a·11d· .s.t':ste·l·s of Hurley~' he said, . y 1 D b ·895 F· t·otn of New . or( on ecetn er rz, I ·. . · 'I've called you together to-night t-o say fare- ·• the beginning to the end the banquet hall was well-f-a\r-e-w-e-1-L I don't think the Lord filled with the \ Song to Old Union\ and loves you very much, for none of you seem to other songs dear to every Union man and there die. He don't want you-and I don't think was not one present who did not appear as you love each other, for I've never married any enthusiastic as he did in his undergraduate days, of you-and I clon't think you love me, because · and some more so. It was a happy gathering you don't pay ne my salary-and yom dona- . and one to he looked forward to in the future by tion~ are mouldy flour and wonny apples-by · the unde' graduates .. their fruits ye shall know tl•em. (Laughter.) The dinner was held in one of the grand And now I am going to a better place- . banquet halls at the Waldol'f. The tables ~ere b-e-t-t-e-r place! I've been appointed chaplain • set for groups of six and at each plate, bestdes of the penitentiftry at Sing Sing. Where I go . the menu card, was a garnet rose and an ye cannot cotne-but I go to p1·epare a place elaborately decorated card of the most popular for you.' (Laugilter.) Union songs, including the \Terrace Song,\ \When the dear old dergyman had got \If You Want to Go to Union\ and the through I looked around at the audience, and \Union Marching Song.\ the Chistians had their handkerchiefs crammed As the last act of his official capacity Gen. in their mouths. These Christians, they get all Butterfield presided and acted as toast- tbe good, honest fun in the world l But they discount theit· fun. They don't want fun with a stinger in it. They don't want fun where they are going to have a rolH{:king tin1e for two weeks and then have to put their tretnbling anns around their weeping, broken-hearted wives, totter over to the baby's cradle and let their tears patter down on the baby's face and then-go off to the gold cure l I say I saw the Christians-up in Bible q uot:ation~-. get all this fun, and then I looked down on the front seat, and thfire sat an old saloon-keeper who had never read his Bible and never heard these quotations-and as the preacher's voice. was sa.d, tears were rolling down his cheeks wh1le Chns- t.ians were laughing. I think the old salo?n- . keeper who never read his Bible was be1ng punished for something . '' I found out afterwards that he wasn't all right on the tariff.)' (Laughter.) Irving W. Ketch.utn, '99, has been adn1itted to the Albany Presbytery as a student. REV. GEORGE ALEXANDER,, D. D., '66. n1aster. He was seated in the center of a crescent-shaped table elevated at one end of the rootn, and directly in front of hitn was an exact reproduction of the college buildings as they stand to-day. At the satne table '\vere President Rayn1ond, Mayor Strong, Major-Gen. Thomas

Dil)e. has a not they Frotn ·was d an there as . grand were an d the Gen. toast- of a the they ident as THE OONCORDIEN:SIS. 5 .H. Ruger., •Charles A. Dana, Charles R. Mi!Jter, Atnasa J. Parker, Senator Joseph M. CaTey, Warner Mi:Uer, San1uel R. Thayer and Fred. · W. Seward. After the inner 1nan was satisfied and cigars • ·were lighted, Gen. Butterfield, with a few well chosen re·marks, introduced the first speal\:er, . Gen. Ruger, who responded to the toast, \ The • Flag.\ lie said that the flag is an embie1n, ·. and that to-day it represents no chief but the governtnent and the people which it is the duty · of the govern1nent to protect. It represents the . rights of every Arne_rican citizen and it is the . institution of the family, which, of all the per- · n1anent relliationships established on earth, is · nearest to the thought of the Creator. The coUeges of this country are the great storehouses of the sentirnent of patriotisn1. At the end \ An1erica\ was sung and before President Raymond was introduced to respond to \ Old Union \ the \ Song to Old Union '' was sung, all standing. When Dt-. Raytnond was introduced to re- spond to the toast \Old Union\ it was several minutes before he could proceed, the cheers were so nurnerous. He began by saying that · he could talk on almost any subject, but that Old · Union vvas his chief topic. He then pointed out the great need of 1nodern improve- n1ents at the college and said that to-day she could not n1eet the requiretuents of young Atnerica. He described the itnprovetnents that have been rnade and especially the 1nanner in which the student body is governed by the f~tculty. He closed with the following retnarks: '' The spirit that made Union College respect- ed in daJS gone by is still treasured and cherished a.nd fostered by us to-day. We try to tnake it a school of honor, where the tricky m.an will n1eet the contempt he deserves; where rnen 1nay be trusted without being watched and believed without being cross-questioned. These are the men who are to make the nation of the future, and the college which is to do the great_ est work is the one which shall send out the tnen to stand foretnost in Atnerica for truth and righteousness. Young rnen tnust learn that the purpose o{ all education is to fit men to lift the burdens of hutnanity and to help the poor fellows who have fallen a.rnong thieves.\ After paying a tr[bute to Dr. Nott, Gen. Butterfield called on Mayor Strong who re- sponded to the toast, \New York 'City; Muni- cipal Governn1·ent; Municipal Affairs.\ After informing the tnayor that \He's all right\ sotne one suggested a '' tiget~\ to go on the end, bat the tnayor infonned them that they d .d 't - t '' . \ 1 . · · H. 1 n wan· any bget t1at even1.ng. · 1s speech was brief and he said that they had tried to make the governtnent of New York City better. l-Ie said they ha~d succeeded in getHng the streets cleaned and if they hadn't closed all the doors of the saloons. on Sunday they had the name of trying to do so. After a few words on the rnanner of governing the city he closed by saying that as far as he had found out ail the mayor has to do is to receive the condemnation of the people for an their bad acts, while they · themselves receive all the glorification for their good ones. A letter of regret was read fron1 Eli Perkins, after which Mr. Charles R. Miller, editor of the New York Times and a graduate of Dartrnouth, in a few spicy remarks in responfe to the toast ''Our Sister Col1eges\ compared Union and Dartmouth, saying they were alike in many things and both have a definite field to cultivate. Gen. Butterfield next introduced Charles A. Dana of the New York Sun, who spoke on the toast, \The Press.\ He said in substance: ''The first reflection that occurred to tne when I look over this assernblage was that Union College rnust be the healthiest place on the face of the earth, for this is the healthiest array of heads that I have ever seen. I an1 a friend of D nion College. I have never heard and I don't believe anybody else h.as, of any Union tnan who ever advocated anything but the principle of liberty. As I sit het·e I am retninded of one of the greatest graduates Union ever had. I mean the late Mr. Seward, and I take great pleasure in saying in the presence of his son, who, like his father, is a son of Old Union, that he was a tnan who wTote in undying characters far into the future, the doctorine of the Stars and Stripes. If th~r~ was no other son who had

6 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ever left your alnut 1nater's walls, there would McElroy, '6o. Mr .. McElroy said he liked to still be for her abnost unparalleled glory.\ .. think that we to-day are as good 1nen as those The secretary of the association, Mr. Edgar who went before us and that they were all there S. Barney, '84, nex:t read a nutnber of regrets to do everyt:l1ing to advance the rnerits of the which included those of Gov. Morton, Gov. college. He said the influence of such a feast McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt, Bishop Potter, was analogous to the fount of youth, and while Gen. Horace Porter, Sec. Lan1ont and Sec. there aH grew younger. Morton. In reply to \'Union in the West.'' Senator FreeL \V. Seward, '49, a son of the great • Joseph M. Carey, '67, pointed out the difference statestnan, followed and he said that when he , between the east and the west, and said there first went to Union, it was in a ti1ne of intense : ought to be a closer relationship betvYeen the two. religious exciten1ent and controversy. The : The east does not take enough interest in the thing that most :irnpr,essed hin1 was that at ; west, but the west wants union in tnany things. chapel exercises a Presbyterian divine would ' Gen. An1asa J. Parker, '63, followed and, in pray for thetn all one tnorning; the next, an ·. answer to the toast, \ The Ahunni Association,\ Episcopal clergyman would read frotn the :: said that the alutnni wants so1nething practical prayer book ; the next day, a good Methodist ; that will bring tnoney into the treasury. brother would plead th:eir cause. Thus it was The college cannot rest quietly with her new life that at Union he l:earned his first great and last- · unless she has the rneans to do an enlarged EDGAR S. BARNEY~ '84. ing lesson of the tolerance of religious op1n1on. They learned the principle which lies at the bottom of the Atnerican Constitution and of the Protestant reformation. Gen. Butterfield, with a short speech, turned over the badge of ofHce to his successor, Rev. Dr. George Alexander. As Dr. Alexander received the badge, a garnet ribbon with the seal of the college on it, he said his first duty was to confer upon Gen. Butterfield the degree of P. E. (President iEn1iritus). A unanitnous vote of thanks was given the GeneraL Dr. Alexander then introduced Williatn H. work. He closed with a tribute to Dr. Ra v- ., tnond. ELECTION OF OFFICERS. At 5 =45 o'clock the annual business 1neeting of the Alumni Association was held in the parlors . of the \Valdorf, President Daniel Butterfield presiding. The principal itetn on the calendar was the election of officers. This resulted as follows: President, the Rev. Dr. George Alex- ander, '66; first vice-president, Silas B. Brown- ell, '52; second vice-president, DL Daniel L. Stitnson, '64; secretary, Edgar S. Barney, '84 ; treasurer, vVillian1 C. Roberson, '77; executive committee, General Daniel Butterfield, '49, Prof. Franklin H. Giddings, of Colutnbia Col- lege ; Charles W. Culver, '89, William B. Rankine, '8r, Williatn K. Gilchrist, '89, Andrew W. Gleason, '6o, Charles D. Nott, '54, George E. Marks, '7o, and Willian1 L. Kennedy, Jr., '87. An atnendtnent was also adopted pro- viding for an increase of the executive com- . 1nittee fro1n nine to fifteen tnetnbers, the addi- tional nan1es to be chosen frotn among the younger altnnni. He loves the brooldet's n1usic, He loves the horse's neigh; But in rustic lyric He loves best the chi<ck'ns. lay. H. D. '99. T whi sine the lish vol1 hou ven . prn wit 1 . wn con 1 biol . 1ng \S Off chu the -I can '\f Th, Me or \I lTI·O -] \' \l Ca late Un J cat OBI the no· bo~ un tlu rer

THE c:oNOORDIENSIS. .Batt~rfi~ld [~etares publi:6>t}Hd. to give 75 per cent. of the profits from the sale of the books to the college to aid in the continH ... ance of the Lectures after General Butterfield's The first volume of the Butterfiel~d Lectures, course is completed, or for other uses as 1nay he which has been in the hands of the publisher . decided by the Board of Trustees. since last sutntner, has finally been Placed before The price of the book is $3, but THE CoN- the public. Mr. F. Tennyson Neely,. the pub- . CORDIENSIS has tnade arrangements whereby lisher, has spared no pains in 1~naking the • ten or rnore books n1ay be had at the rate of volutne a neat and attractive one. It i·s well . $r ·75 each. [f the students who desire a copy bound in a green cloth cover, wi:th the Uni- will give their natnes to Mr. Blodgett, '97, who versity seal on the front side, and the p<tper and . is the agent, or to the editor-in-chief, they will print are both of the best. A second volurne . be supplied. will soon follow. The introduction to the present vohune was , written by Prof. T'ruax, and there ;h<J need of no · cornm,ent on its excellency. There is a half-tone cut, together with a short biography of each lecturer, and his lecture is given in full. Those that it contains are as follows: \West Point-its Purpos.e, its Train- ing and its Results\-· Gen. Pete:L· S. Michie. '' So1ne Inside Views of the G ubetnatorial Office,._ ex-Gov. Alexander H. Rice, of Massa- chusetts. '-'Military Law, Martia.T Law and . the Suspension of the Writ of Habeas Corpus\ -Lieut.-Col. John W. Claus, U. S . .A. \Anleri- cari Diplotnacy \-Hon. Fred. W. Seward. '\Politics and the Duty of the Citben \-Hon. Thomas F. Bayard. \Architecture \-Mr. Montgomery Sch~yler. \Is Electrkity Energy or Only Matter?\ -.Albon Mann, Ph. D. \Brains and Muscles; Their Rela:dve Training · \'and Developtnent ,_. -Gen. Willian1 A. Ham- Inond. \The Electro-Magnetic 'Telegraph\ -Ex-Gov. Alonzo B. Cornell, of New York. ''Wealth and its Uses\-Mr. Andrew Carnegie, \Banking and Currency \-Hon. Henry W~ Cannon. \Roads\-Col. Francis V. Greene, late U. S. A. ~'The Postal Se1·vice of the United States \-Hon. Thon1as L. J an1es. By looking over the list .of the :lectures one can readily see that the book is a very Yaluable one, for they come from the best authorities on those subjects in the land. To tho-.se who were not fortunate enough .to hear the :speeches the book will be of especial interest. Alumni and undergraduates alike should endeavor to n1ake the book a financial success, for .,ts it will be ren1e1nbered, Mr. Neely has generously ofrered fUI'isoQ-Foote Debate. The date of the inter-sor.iety debate for a prize of $roo has been fixed for this year on Feb. zo. It has been considered best to take this event out of the crowded progratn of co1nn1encetnent week, hereafte1· holding it near Washington's birthday. This, it is thought, wi 11 insure greater interest in the debate. The question for this year is- \ Resolve,d, That the aggressive policy of Great Brita,in during the century is jn accord with the higher interests of civilization.\ The rule requiring speakers to have partici- pated in ten debates has been waived in con- sideration of the short time for preparation. Speakers al 1 e chosen fro1n those who have ap- peared tnost frequently in society debate. <St}e N. E. ~. Y. ,RILI[TliJi Rssoeia tioQ DiQI]er. The annual dinner of the Union College Alumni Association of North Eastern New York will be held on Tuesday evening, Tan. 27, at the Kentnore Hotel in Albany. A large attendance is expected, and several noted speakers are announced. President Raytnond will be present. The officers of the association are : President, Edward D. Ronan, '67 ; vice- president, Seytnour Van Santvoord, '78; secre- tary and treasurer, Charles F. Bridge, '87 ; chainnan executive corntnittee, Willian1 P. Rudd, '73· The undergraduates are also cor- dia1ly invited to attertd.

.. \ 8 Tl]~ JioiJor System. The class of '99 of Union College has adopted the Honor System, as observed in Princeton, Cornell and Wesleyan. The idea was suggested by a 1nernber of the faculty to one of the class, who, looking upon if favorably, brought it up in a tneeting, and so well was it received that a comtnittee was appointed to draw up rules under which the system might be enforced. The system was unanin1ously adopted, as W•ere the rules, and to-day the Freshman class at;e sailing smoothly along with quite as good heart as they might have had under the ·reglme of \cribs \horses'' and \ponies.\ The rules governing the system are, to speak briefly, as follows: ( r) No cheating shall be done in exatnination. ( 2) A student seeing another cheat shaH report hitn to a con11nittee elected by the class. (3) This con11nittee, after consi?ering his case, shall repritnand hitn for the first offense. (4) Second and third attempts will subject him to other reprimandings. (5) After being reprin1anded there times, if he be caught cheating again, the comrnittee shall detnand his expulsion fro1n college. The whole thing is tnan:1ged entirely by the con1mittee, who are bound to secrecy concern- To flleet 'oo perstoUJQ. The track athletic rnanagement has n1ade arrangements to meet the Cooperstown Athletic 'Club in an indoor contest on February 7. A team of five n1en will be selected frotn the college to tneet a like n urn ber in a series of four events, as follows: (I) Running high jurn p ; ( 2) putting I 2-lb. shot; (3) running high kick; (4) fence vault. Preliminary trainq ing for Union's contestants began in the c·ollege gytnnasiutn last week, and probably about Saturday previous to the above date, the team will be chosen. Enthusiasm over this m,eet should rise to the highest notch. Last year we had a meet with the saJne club, and, with the addition of a stand. ing high jutup, the events were the satne as this year. We were then represented by Myers, '96; Scofield, '96; Holleran, '95; Sylvester, '98, and Burgin, '95, and lost the n1eet by only I 2 points, the score being r 69g-r687. With the splendid new material now in col- lege, given favorable circtunstances, we ought to bring the banner to Union this year. ing their actions. The faculty has nothing I The Shakespeare Club tnet near the close of whatsoever to do with it, except when the con- last tern1 and discussed the work to be taken up duct of the offender tnake an appeal to thetn during the present term. It was decided to necessary. The governing body consists of the have a series of six tneetings, and a variety of president of the class and five tnen, one chosen dran1atic work ·will be studied and criticised. from each cf its divisions. At present it is . Dr. Truax will treat on \How to Study a composed of Messrs. l(ellogg, Hin1nan, Wright, Shakespearean Character\; Prof. Edwards will Roselle, and Lord discuss a Sanskrit play; Prof. Bennett will dis- Thus far the Honor System has been a sue- • cuss a Greek play; Prof. Opdike will cite cess. No cheating has )et been reported,. the Henry It~ving as a Shakespearean critic; Prof. class is entirely satisfied with its workings, and . Buck will discuss one of Shakespeare's plays, nothing but a brilliant future can be predicted · and at the last 1neeting the club will tnake a for it. The leading colleges of the country · study of and discuss Henry VIII. have adopted it, and old Union, knowing a · The officers of the club are Geo. E. Pollock, good thing when she 5ees it, has taken it up, 'g6, president; Ira Hotaling, '97, vice-president; and with the energy and push. of the \fin de ·. W. M. Swann, '98, secretary; Carl Hatntner, siecle\ class behind her, will, we hope, possess • 'g8, treasurer; J. Wood, '96, chainnan execu- it for many years to come. · tive co1n1nittee . by , ·~ 9< lw A Cl th to to as of pl H h: a1 ti h n S. F r: a ( a c

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 9 Obituary. 1-IORAG:E EGLESTON FAIRWEATHER. The cio:sing- days of last term, were saddened won for hitnself a host of fri,ends, by whotn he will be sadly missed. The Freshtnan ~class sent as clelegates to his funeral, Raymond D. McMahon and W. M. Wilson, and his frate1·nity also sent a large by the death of Horace Egleston Fairweather, delegation. At a meeting held Dec. 1 6, hi:s '98, on Dec. 19, 1895. He suffered in his dass took action regarding his death and a p- last illness at the hotne .of hi.s uncle, Hon. John pointed a comtnittee to present suitable reso- A. DeRetner, of Schenectady. Mr. Fair- • weatliler prepared for college at the Union · lutions, which are given bdow : Classical Institute, graduating with honors in IN MEM~ORIAM. the dass of ' 9 4, taking the commencement ora• Whereas, The han.d of death hath taken from torical prize of that institution. In his prepara- , our midst ·our esteemed friend and fellow class- mate, John Ed wards Seaman, Jr., and tory work l1e was very popular as a student and · Whereas, We, the menibers of the class of '99, of as a tnetnber of Pi Phi fraternity. In the fall Union college, ,are in. his loss bereft of one whose of '94 he entered Union, with the intention of manliness and kindly nature won our deepest preparing hi rnself for the profession of law. respect and affection; and H,e was a 1 nember of the Chi Psi fraternity. Whereas, We deeply ntourn his loss, be it there- for.e Popularity and good fellowship vvent hand in Resolved, That in this, the hour of our 1nutual hand with tl1e student in his ~collegiate course .· sorrow, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his and :he ahvays tnade the n1ost of his opportttni- beveaved family, and further be it ties. He was a good student, a frequent con- · Resolved, That our class button be draped for a tributor to THE CoNCORDIENSIS and later a period of fourteen days, that a copy of these reso- 111em:ber of the Editorial Board. He also : lutions be sent to his family and a copy be placed on the class records. showed great interest in athletics. · Lucius c. BARRY, A large repr\esentation of the Chi Psi anc1 Pi • WENTWORTH TuCKER, Phi fraternities, and of. the ,class of '98, were . W. MoRSE \\VrLSON present at the fune1·al servioe, which was held Oonunittee. at ML Fairweather's hotne in Birchton. Cut flowers -vvere sent by both fraternities and a ve,ry fine floral\ pillow by mernbers of the class of'5)8. 5il]e 8opl)o:more ,soiree. The annual soiree which is given by the Sophomore class will be held on Friday even- ing, Feb. 14, at the Van Curler Opera House. JOHN EDWARDS SEAMAN, JR. This is the social event of the year at Union, On the 14th day of Decetnber, 1895, John with the exception of the Cotnn1encement ball, Edwa1·ds Seatnan, Jr., one of the most respected and the soiree of this year promises to eclipse and honorable metnbers of the class of '99, died any that has ever preoeded it. The cotntnittee, at his bo1ne in Johnstown, N.Y. He went , which is working hard to n1ake it a grand sue- haute for his 'Thanksgiving vacation and while cess, is co1nposed ofT. B. Brown, M. L. Havi- there was stricken with the typhoid fever, but. land, P. P. Sheehan, C. J. Vrootnan, J. W. everything that could be done for hitn proved Haggart, R. A. Avery, W. J. Sotntner, P. B. of RO avail. · Yates, C. D. Griffith, W. A. Earles and H. C. Mr. Seatnan was a good student, of kind dis- A.11en. position, and an upright and thorough gentletnan in every respect. He stood well in his class · and was taking the engineering course. He wa& a mernber of the Alpha Delta Phi frater- nity and during his short sojourn in college had On Sunday afternoon, Jan. 19, Mr. Frissell, principal of Hatnpton Institute, Va., will be here with a choir of singers frotn the Hatnpton Institute.

lO THE OONOORDIENSIS. PtJBLIS.HED ON: ALTERNATE WEDNESDAYS DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLE:GE. BOARD OF EDITORS: MAJOR ALLEN TW]FORD '96, Editor-in-Chief. W A.LTER L HUGGINS, '96, Business Manager. WILLfAM H. HALL, '96, .. Literary .Editor. EDW.ARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business 1\.fanager. WILLIAM F. CHERRY, '97, } F~ PA:CKAR .. D PALMER, '97, .Assistant Editors. HUBBELL RoBINSON, '97, · CAR~ HAMMER, '98, I WILLIAM D. REED, '98, t P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial Staff .. F. Boss, '98, J £. Me CLINTOCK, '97,, } R. Y .AN BEUSEKOM, E . .S. BROWN, Medical College. Law School. TERM:S, SI:NGLE COPIES, $2 .. 00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE .. H5 CENTS. Address all communications to THE CONCJORl>I- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to 1nake checks pay- able 1to Walter L. Huggins, Business Manager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as ~econd-class Matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRI~TER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N. 'f. WE WISH you all a happy new _year. WE ARE indebted to the New York Tribune for the cut of Mr. E. S. Earney, which we print in · this number. W:s-y NOT have son1e heat in the gymnasium, so that those who care to exercise may do so · without fear of catching cold ? O'UR XMAs. nun1ber made a .great hit, and it was a success in .every way. That the nuiDber was a very neat and artistic one everybody ad;mits, and we owe a great deal to Mr. Chas. Burrows~ our printer, f<Jr the excellent work he did on the paper for ··us. '' It was the best numbe:t• of 11HE: (JoN- CORDIENSIS ever put before the public,\ several have told us, and we are grateful that i:t .shonld have been so favorably received. IT IS with deepest sorl'ow that we are eompel'led in this number to record the death of two of Gur fellow students. It is the first tiine this unpleas- ant duty has befallen us and now it comes doubly hard. It is useless to teH here their good qualities , for everyone who knew Mr. Fairweather and Mr. Seaman,. knows that they were Inodel young men, always ready to stand up for everything .that was right and honorable. It is needless to .say any- thing further than that the whole college very greatly feels their loss and that the fa·mHies . of both young men have the heartfelt sympathy of the faculty and undergraduate body. THE MATTER which was brought up at the last college meeting concerning a post office on. the hili, where the students Inay get their mail, is a ve:t·y important one. A com1nittee was appointed to look the matter up, prepare a petition and present the san1e to the post-master· general, and we hope this committee will see the need of the students in this respect. At present there is n~ deli very at all to the students and they are compelled to go down to the post office, a rnile distant, in. order to get their mail matter, which soinetirnes is very ilnportant. This not only causes a great delay in getting one's mail, but in many cases causes the student a great inconvenience when he is busy :at his work. Several years ago the college had such , an office, and why it was abolished we do not know, ·. but we sineerely hope another rnay be established. 'THOSE who heard Eli Perkins' speech at the alumni dinner during the Centennial last June .· WE ARE more than pleased to be able to note the will readily recognize it as our leading article in · fact that we are to have more Butterfield lectu 1 ~es the present number. and that they are to begin at once. Gen. Butte:t\- PL:E.ASE pay your subscription. We are very much in. need of money in order to keep up our running expenses, and we must get it in some way. It is the beginning of the term when every one is supposed to have son1e money, and please pay up now and save the annoyance in the future. field, it seems, has not forgotten us and we are glad that he has not. There is not a Inan in college who is not indebted to the G·eneral, and some in a very great degree, for the n1ost practical and interesting co11rse of lectures ever delivered before any student body Every speaker in the course has been a n1an at the very top of bis profession, thor- •( ,(

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 ongbly versed on the .subject of his lecture. .And . :a .g,reat many of them have been nren. that could not have been obtained bad it not been for Gen- : era!l Butterfield's close personal acquaintance with . them. There still remain, however, a few lectu:ues, nearly all of wbich are by extrem·ely prominent · 1 nen, and weare glad that we are to have the pleas- ure of listening to them before the year is over. In this ~nstance, as in all other$, General Butterfield has proved his interest in his Alma Mater, and the stuclen. t body thank and reverence llilin1 for this devotion. 'JHE EXCELLENT showing n1ade by Union men, both graduates and undergraduates, at the civil service examinations for positions on the State Engineering corps proves what we have always held to, that Union has one of the best engineer- ing courses in the country. Not one Union man faHed to pass the examinations, and out of about two hundred appointed up to date from all over the State thirty of them are sons of Old Union. Their training, of coursf,, is due to the work of the mathematical and engineering departments, and wbile the work of both at times seems very severe, its results are always for the good of the stu. dent. It has been so in the present instance and it will continue to be so in the future. attention during the past few n1onths and in some colleges has been adopted in toto, in others has been accepted by individual classes. \' The Honor Systen1 '' as such is con1paratively new in northern :colleges. It has been adopted from the south where it has been in .successfnil operation for a ~great n1any years. G-radually working nerth it has now n1ade its triun1p1t aln1:ost cornplete ov,er the old syste1n. By this ol4 systen1 it see1ned as though the student and professor were natural enernies and that the latte.r· was attempting to thrust down the throat of the former a certain amount of knowledge in a given. titne. Under such a condition of affairs the student · was bound to make every effor~t to resist and to use every tneans to out-wit the professor. But a, new order of things is now being established; the instructor and the instructed are working together ' to see how 1nuch can be learned and not how n1ucb. can be gotten out of. As long as the professor acted as a spy and took it for granted that the . student would cheat, the student considered it as · his duty to .fulfill the professor's expectations. Students who w.ould not stoop to a n1ean or dis- honest act, ·considered it as legithnate to \horse not realizing that they were cheating themselves •, '' and all about thern. But with this new system and with the thought WE ARE glad to note the inte1·est that is being : that is being a wakened by the discussions, a higher , sense of honor is certainly being developed in the ,' very Ininutest details. It n1ust surely help estab- iish a higher n1oral sense and a greater realization of individual responsibility. The Mail and ExpTess, in a long editorial hails, this new syster-n with delight and counts upon it to do n1uch for the production of more sincere n1anhood. F. C . Woodward, of South Carolina college, writing in the Educational Review, refers as follows to the success of \the honor system\ in the south, and to what it is doing for the students. shown in the Shakespeare Club by the faculty. : If the students will only show half as n1ucb inter· : est, the club is bound to prosper and work for the · good of .all. During its existence in college it has . been a vast benefit to all who have associated · themselves with it, and no one has ever regretted · being present at its meetings. The study of Shakespeare is interesting to aU, and especially to the college man, and one can never learn too 1:nuch about our greatest poet. The exceHent progran1 that bas been mapped out, w hicl1 is to be found in another column, ought to be a great incentive to all ; and the members of the faculty, who will devote their time and energies in order to furnish the club with suitable addresses, ought to be made to feel that their efforts are app1·eciated. IN ACCORDANCE with the general moven1ent among northern colleges, \ the honor systen1 \ in e:xaminations has received a great deal of discus- sion at Union and has been adopted by the Fresh- man elass. This subject has received rnuch \This high estimate of personal responsibility and careful guardianship of personal honor gives to individuals and to national character that mora,l irnpregnability against which no onslaught of vice, no subversions of anarchy, shall prevail. And thus do our students guard their own and their college's. sacred honor, and put away evil from among us.\ Surely if after years of trial in southern colleges this systen1 has brought such good results, Union will welome the introduction of the system to her own college life. Pershing, '97, is recovering from his illness, and will soon return to college.

12 THE OONCORDIENSIS. W. H. Hall, '96, visited R. B. Beattie, '96, during the Christlnas vacation. Edwards, ex-'97, is attending Andover. M. A. Twiford, '96, visited hi's old home in Cox, '95, was in town during the holidays. Maryland, during the holidays. Multer; '98, has entere,d Brown University. M. H. Strong, '96, tnade a short visit to 0. Cox, '98, spent his vacation at Glens FaUs. · Sandy Hill during the vacation. Moulter, '98, has .gone to Brown University. • Bowers, '97, returns this term still feeling a Failing, '98, and Failing, '99, have left •· little weak after his long illness. college. . Charles J. Vrootn,an, '98, was in New York F. H. Eatnes, '95, was in the city during the j and vicinity during the holidays. vacation. 8 Of the 84 enrolled in the class of '99 seven Prof. Buck takes the Sophotnores in Chaucer •. l1.ave left college and one has di:ed. this tenn. Robert C. Alexander, 'So, editor of the Mall Prof. Edwards spent his vacation in Balti- : and Express, was in town recently. tnore, Md. S. B. Brown, ex-'97, was the guest of friends Prof. J\tfosher spent the Xmas vacation in , on the hill during exatnination week. Rochester. Coanant, '92, principal of the_l1igh school at A. W. Peters, '97, spent the holidays at Waverly, N.Y., was in town Dec. 21. Rochester. Dr. Raymond attended the \Villiams College Van Wonner, '99~ spent his vacation at· Ahunni banquet at New York, Dec. 17. Dunnsville. Cooper, '93, and Potter, ''95, attended the for funeral of Horace Egleston Fairweather. A. B. Lawrence, '99, was in New York the holidays. Kilpatrick passed part of his vacation at Clyde, N.Y. Dr. Linhart passed the holidays at Man- chester, Conn. Sheehan, '98, spent the l1olidays at his home in Harnilton, 0. Prof. Opdyke spent the vacation in Plainfield, N.J., his hon1e. R. M. Huntley, '99, was on the hill again for the exatn.inations. Fred. Klein, '95, is studying law in an office in New York city. A. B. Lawrence, '99, spent part of his vaca- tion in New York. Sands, '98, attended the Old Guard's ball at New York, Jan. 6. Craver, '96, is still detained frotn college on account of sickness. T. V. W. Anthony, '96, spent his vacation Prof. Wright is using a new work on Physics this tenn. It is edited by H. S. Carhart. George H. Hughes, '93, of the New York JJd\ail and Express was in town Sunday. R. D. Fuller, '97, spent a few days of the vacation at Dryden with G. Sweetland, '97. McMahon and Wilson represented the class of'99 at the funeral of the late J. E. Seatnan. The engineers that secured positions on the State Engineering corps have all begun thei:r work .. Barbour, '98, Johnson, '98, and l(ellogg, '99, spent the vacation at their homes in Ogdens- burgh. Enders, ex-'96, has accepted a position on the reportorial staff of the Schenectady Daily Gazette. President Kellogg, V{ilson and McMaholil. were appointed to attend the funeral of John. E. Seaman . hunting in Virginia. Cook, '94, was the the close of last tenn. . Our ever-welconle friend '' Charlie \ Kil- guest of friends here at . patrick has returned to college after his unfor- tunate illness. Haggart, '99, is seriously ill with typhoid fever at his ho111e in Gloversville. Van der Bogert, '95, who. is attending the medical departtnent of the University of Penn- at sylvania, spent the holidays at his home in this city. Prof. Winans spent the holiday vacation Glovers ville, hfs former hon1e.

THE CONCORDJENSIS. 13 Grupe, '93, now a student at the Oberlin Additional electives have heen offered as Theologk:al Seminary, at Oberlin, '0., was in follows: Advanced Rhetoric, for Seniors and town duriNg vacation. Juniors, by Prof. Hale; Bactedology, for Geo. Dann, '96, J. S. Cotton, '97, and W. Seniors, by Prof. Stoller ; French, for Seniors Swann, '98, con1pose the Adelphic executive ·. and Junior, Prof. Mosher; Ethics, for Seniors, committee this winter. · by Prof. Buck. Clements, '95, who is attending the Auburn A. J. Bratnan, '94, who for some titne past Theological Setninary, passed the vacation with . has been connected with the local department his parents i 11 this city. of the Schenectady Daily Gazette, has severed Dr. Raymond gave an address on '' Honi:es . his connection with that paper to take a more and Churches \ in the State Street Meth:od.ist · lucrative position in the office of the ·General Church, Saturday, Jan. 11. Electric Company. Lewis, '90, who has been the guest of S!lJ The Philornathean Society has elected the aunt, Mrs .. Peissner, for several weeks, bas re- following officers; President, Geo. E. PoHock, turned to his ho1ne in Washington. '96;. vice-president, J. Wood, '96 ;. secretary, Prof. McKenzie is acceptably filling the posi- . Mabon, '98 ; treasurer, D. L. Wood, '97 ; tion of organist at the First Refortned Chut~ch · curator, Gan1bel, '99; judicial bench, G. L. during the illness of Prof. Kingsbury. ·VanDeusen, '96, H. H. Brown, '97, Wm. H. Prof. Hoffn1an took an extended southern trip , Reed, '98. during the Xtnas vacation, and visited lhe . Atlanta Exposition before it closed. Tl]e 'oll~Q~ f.ibrary. Rev. W1n. P. Landon, '89, of Chicago, Ill., who has just returned from an extended Euro- The college library is a feature of inestimable pean tour., spent the holidays with his father, . usefulness and value, and it is with pleasure J S that we learn of added improvernents and new Hon. · udson · Landon, of this city. arrangetnents that have been n1ade for the con- Dr_. Ray1nond officiated at the n1arriage of venience of every student. Dr. George H. Beebe to Miss Lilia D. Brainard, Prof. Lamoroux spent much of the stnnmer at Albany, Dec. r 7. Dr. Beebe was the vale- vacation, and is still devoting his tilne, in dictorian of the class of , 94 , A. M. ·C. · rearranging the books. The volumes of the old The New York World of Dec. zoth con~ Adelphic and Philomathean libraries have been · placed upon the shelves of the 1nain library tained atnong its \Mothers of Noted Men.,\ a under their appropriate beadings, fTom which portraiture of Mrs. (Bishop) Alonzo Potter, of th~y tnay still be obtained by students for New Yorl\:. She is a daughter of Dr. Eliphalet periods of tvvo weeks. Upon placing these N t ' books in the n1ain body of the library it was ot. G '. found that the college was in possession of en. Daniel Butterfield, '49' addressed the . tnat1Y quplicates. Other works had lost their National Republican comtnittee at Washington, ·. usefulness. Such books are being turned into Dec. ro. He spoke in favor of New York City . cash as fast as possible. The proceeds are to as the place for holding the national convention ·. be used in obtaining valuable books that will be in ' 9 6. . of imtnediate use to the college depa1tn1ents. The Intercollegiate Association of Amateur · There is already a sn1all increase in the ntnnber of volutnes since last year, especially in college Athletics of America vvill hold its annual con- departtnental texts. Other works have been vention in New York City on the 29th of received frotn loyal friends of'' Old Union.\ February. Manager W. L. Terry, '96, will Our college library has no special fund at represent Union. present to dravv upon when new books are The faculty have ruled that no one can be on desired, and so in the absence of any standing endow1nent, Prof. Lan1oroux's schetne of re- the athletic team who has 1nore than two condi- placing the old and duplicate volutnes by new tions. This is for the interests of non-profes- works of practical and daily use, will n1aterjally sionalism in athletics, of which Union has enhance the value of the library to the student always been an advocate. , and reader. ;.~ .· . ~ 1 .

14 -- ADVERTISEMENTS. - PA'r•RO,NIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. I The committee in charge of the exa1ninations : I, under the honor syste1n for the c'tass of '99 for : the Freshman year consists of W. ·G. Kellogg, ', chaittnan; H .. K. Wright .frorn tbe Classicals, · H. J. Hintnan frotn the Latin Scien:tifics,, W. K. · Rosselle frotn the Scientifics and ~c. Lord from . the Engineers. The officers of the Ade:lphic Society for this tenn are: President, R. Guernse-y, '96; vice- president, Ira Hotaling,. '97 ; secretat·y, L. E. Cullen, ·98 ; treasurer, H. C. Allen, '98; cura- tors, H. L. Beardsley, '99, A. 0:. Casey, '99, L. L. Schmitter, '99; executive con1mittee, • G. J. Dann, '96, J. S. Cotton, '97, W. M. Swann, '98. Dr. Truax has been engaged to deliver a , second course of lectures before tire U niverity Extension Class at Saletn, N. Y. Two years ago he was at Salem and last yeat 4 at Saratoga, but he n1ade such a decided success in the · fonner place tl1at he had to consider their call this winter. The course consists of ten lectures, and the general subject is ''American Litera- • ture.\ He has already delivered two lectures, · one un \ Colonial Literature,\ and the other on • \ Benja1nin Franklin and Washing 1 ton Irving.'' • UNION COLLEGE 1 __/ ESTABLISHED 1818. . . . . . .·. ~ BROOKS BROTHERS, ~I BOOK EXCHANGE 33 :t:'T. e. s. o. COLLEGE TEXTS BOTII NEW AND OL,D <9\:-ALSO~ DRAWING INSTRUMENTS AND MAI'ERIAL8, TABLETS, FOUN'T'AIN PENS, PENGI L-8, IN ;FACT .-..»E1let1t~in~ a ptudeil.t Needs#- lN HIS WOHK. COODS AT LOWEST PRICES. A. B. VOSSLER, '96. H. N El.LIS, '9a. Broadway, cor. 22d St., N. Y. City. Clothing and Furnishing Goods, READY MADE .AND MADE TO MEASURE. Our stock for Fall and Winter of 1895-96, now ready in all departments, will be found especially complete and attractive. For Clothing to order we offer a selection of all the various materials now popular in London, with proper facilities for executing orders with the least possible delay. The particular care exercised by us in the cut, manufactut·e and novelty of patterns in our Men's Ready Made Garments' is also extended to our CLOrfHING ]j-,OR BOYS AND CHILDREN, and guarantees exclusive styles; at the same time the NECESSITY FOR MODERATE PRICES has not been overlooked . Our Furnishing Goods Department contains the usual cornplete line of standard goods besides novelties in Shetland and Fair lsle Sweaters, Lamb's Wool Jackets, etc., etc. Our location one block frorn Madison Square, is convenient to the leading hotels and easy of access from the principal railway stations in New York and vicinity.

THE OONCORDIEN:SIS. 15 GIVE YOUR PATRONAGE TO 'THOSE WH'O ARE INTERESTE:D IN UNION. I 1' HACA, N. Y., Nov. r 5, r 895. , EDITOR CoNCORDIENSIS : The following letter ·of Dr. Nott is taken fron1 . atnong a nutnber of testhnoni:als appearing in _ · the then recently cotntn:on publication of the · Bntish .Revz'ew tnentioned: EJ:O:S::~'OJ::'T::C ,St:raight 01.l.t No_ Oiga:rettes. ''Sir-· ln offering to the pubEc such works ···as the Erdlnburgh and ~uarterly Reviews; ,: recornnrendation and apology are alike unneces- : sary. These distinguished journals have already passed the ordeal and received the stamp of 1 : approbation. And whatever dive1·sity of opinion ! ,may be entertained as to their distinctive n1erits , the inforn1ation concentrated, and the talent ·Cigarette Smokers who are willing to pay a little more than the evolved in each is such as to render ofboth, to the price charged for the ordinary trade cigarettes will find THIS BRAND . sutl:;~~ ~ig: 1 ;e~:~se~~~ made rrom .the brightest, most delicately flavol'ed . American scholar and statestnan, an object of and highest cost Gold Leaf grown in Virginia. Thili is the Old and ·· the first ·importance.\ Original Brand of St1•aight Cut Cigarettes, and was brought out by us in the yea-.: 1875· ELIPHALET NoTT. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS, .and obse.rve that the fi1'n1 name as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GINTER, I'he American Tobacco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELE:.CTRIC ~{~ CITY ~r: TROUSERS -;y~ co., .-4@_- _E_._F_._D_A_L_\Y\_. __ ®!?. FfHE CuS Ton' TJiito_R_Itt___,J<i. duits, $10 trp. Trousers, $4 Up. Over~oats, $16 Up. · Drop a postal card and our representative ((),E. HENNESY) will call. 149 SO. CENTRE 8'T'REET. Next door to Barhydt House. The letter is undated, but the others, frotn distingui,shed conte1nporaries of Dr. Nott: Bishop Hobert, Justice Story, De Witt Clinton, Rufus King, James Kent, Cresar Rodney, Joseph Quincy, President Kirkland of Harvard, and others, have the date 1812. Yours veTy truly, 0. B. HlTCHCOCK, '52· COAL.~ ~COAL. BVY YOUR CQ.AL OF W. P. GARNSEY, COAL.~ Office, 433 State Street. Yard, 229 Park Place. ~COAL. ~A. BRO~N & SON,~ FURIITURE AND BEDDING .#JJ. ALL~NDS ~ FOR® STUDENTS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY.

16 THE OONO~ORDIENSIS. ONLY RELIABLE GOODS HANDLED BY OUR ADVERTISERS. At the recent exan1inations held by the State to secure an engineering corps for the canal itnproYenlents, Union n1en were etninentlv suc- cessful. At that tirne eng:neers old and young, .. frotn far and near, gathered at Albany to try ': the civil service exarninations for engineer, level- nJan, rodrnan and chainn1an. The rigor of the exan1inations n1ay he inferred frotn the fact that but a little over haif of the whole nurnber pre- senting themselves were able to pass the exam- inations and secure appointments. But of the zoo receiving such appointtnents, 30 were Union men, both alun1ni and students ; every Union man that attetnpted was successful. Fro1n the undergraduate body there were nine Seniors and one Junior that received appoint- tnents ; of these, eight were of the engineering and bvo of the scientific course. This will show that the courses of study offered at Union are finely arranged to fit the student to tneet the requiretnen.ts of practical life. T'he result of the exarninations reflect great credit upon the tnathematicail and engineering departments, for they were Inostly engaged with these two sub- jects. Those gaining appointJnents were: E. A. Sotntner, '96, H. P. Willis, '97, levelrnan; C. E. Gordon, Chas. Cleaver, C. A. Hunt, L. M. Scofield, R. S. Greenn1an, Alex. Blessing, A. T. Wetnple and Ray Morris, all of the class of '96, rodn1en. All of these, except Mr. Green- Inan, have accepted the appoinbnents and left last Monday for \fnork. \ Hira,1n always sends for 1nun, Says as everythink is dun-. Dun fer kerridge, dun fer hack- 1\fust hev ha.d a bill-yus'tack.\ P. P. S., '98. WILLIAM DOBER:MANN, --- CA'TE~RER .FO:R--- EDDI·N,GS, VARIETY OF ICE CREAM AND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND.. • ..•.. . . . •· . . ,. . . FRIED OYSTERS $2 PER HUNDRED. . . . ,. D·oBE~MANN's 11ESfllAU~ANm t 04 !!! t 0·6 WALL STREET. Oyster Stew in Pail to take Home, 25 cents. Oyster OT Clan'b Fry in a Box, 215 cents. ~~ ~~~~~E~M~.~PI~R~~E~~~~ STEAM LAUNO;RY, 127 JAY STREET, WALTER & HEDDEN, Piops. Students' ~. 5 per term, stri0tly } J in advance. __ lt) - - - - - - . r?l~ -••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••U•••n•••••••••••••••••u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••ooooo•••••••••oouooooo•••••~•••••••••••••••••••••••- t•••••,.•••••••••••••••••••••• ................................................................................................................................................. . ·------------------------·-·-----------------------------------------------------------------·---·-----------------------·---· .. - ........................................................................................... u ........................................ _ ................................................. .. - - - - 129 \\VALL ST., Opp. Post Office. The largest and finest line t>f cigars and smokers s11pplies in the city.

,, -- ADVERTISEMENTS. ------ 17 READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. D FOR FOR SALE. TO LEASE. AND DWELLINGS. ~================-~=========: D'ltJell,iJtg Houses and Flats Excelle1rttly Located, Adapted .to Small Families. Apply to G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union C,ollege. 85 BORDEN AVE., LONC IS,LAND CITY. ,t ' ' ' ·'

18 -- ADVERTISEMENTS. ----...;., LET OUR ADV:E.R/i'ISERS KNOW YOU ARE COLLEGE !fEN WHEN DEALI:NrG WITH 'l'HEM ~ :~ 0 ~ '---1 ~ [~~ d z ~ J ·~ .:::c 'h-1, t .... j. :~ ':P ~; ·r GJ: ·trj. FO UNT'AIN PENS, ~. ~===--'-2) ~ .•. 80·VVEiN:I:R 8PQO,N8, ~ FLAG PI:NSJ ETG. ~. SANDERS' cJEW!EL:ERS, Cl <r: UJ ~ (JJ 2.33 STA'T'E ST., 80/HrEN EG1AD)'. N. 'r'. ~ 0 ~ BARHYTE & DEVENP]:CIC, . I. LEVINE, Van Curle1· Opera Rouse Block. LOWEST PRICES. ~l.J.RYLE & SON, ~ ~ * E!1Q,RAVERS, * ..--. __ ALBANY, N.Y. AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Ha-ir Dressing Opp. Edison Hotel (up stai1•s,) USE A. SCHMIDT'S NtW DIS COVE& Y FOB THE HAll. • A certain cure for Dandruff, Sca•lp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. PHOTOGI{APHIC SUPPI_JIES .... Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes of . . . . . At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. QEO. H .• Q\ll!JRDINEEK., Successor to J. N. McDonald. . ..... Wholesale and Retail Dealers in ee}iL -:- J!NB ,-:- Weon Coal, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, :Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M. C. A.~==-===-- • ~fc ~E~JilflU~fiNJil, jt~ --=====-==CoR. STATE AND FERRY STs. *if'\ Meal Tickets will be sold to Students only . . . . . . • • • • •• fo.r $a .oo for 21 Tickets. WILSON DAVIS, .... M}]R.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544 Broadway, Albany, N. Y : 237 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N.Y. .,, '

= T~IB G~NG~RDIBNSIS. VoL. XIX. UNION :OOLLEGE, JANUARY 29, 1896. No. 8. . - - - . - . C51]e 801)~ to Old 1Jryio17. about a tnonth. before Fitz Hugh'sgt. 4 aduation, we were sitting in our roorn playing whist, when The Con1m,ence1nent Ode is Union's best there was .a knock at the door. It was Dr. dassic. For fifty years it has been sung at ' Nott's servant who announced that the President Connnencement, and every year hs 1 nelody . would like to see Mr. Ludlow. Fitz gave his seerns to swell tnore grandly; every year, the whist hand to another and left, we chaffing him a throng demands more eagerly the repetition of its bit about being diciplined. In a short titne he refrajn. The ardor with which it was readered retutned, saying the doctor w~nted hitn to write' at our Centennial exceeded that of any previous an ode for Con1n1encc::tnent. We ·Continued our N ·t bl game, and Ludlow sat down and scribbled. occaston. ever was 1 s power more no y tt t 1 . Tl t d' 1 1 d. 'tl We had hardly finished the han~ when .he rose a es et. . 1e grea au tence 1us 1e w1 1 ex- - pectation, the solemn notes of the organ, the and read the cotnplete poem. To our exclatna- beautiful, soulful lines: \ Let the Grecian tion, 'Pray when did you write it?' he an- drean1 of his sacred strearn,\ chanted by two swered, 'On the way back and here.' The thousand voices, the faces of aged alutnni lighted whole afrair did not take to exceed three-fourths b 1 1 . of an hour.\ y t 1e t 1rong1ng n1emorie~ of the past, the happy countenances of the young, illutninated One is ren1inded by this retnarkable bit of by I know not what influence-but know 'tis a i1npron1ptu production of the writing of sacred son1ething which links thetn, too, with \America by Dr. San1uel Francis Stnith. the past the ever incrensing enthusiastn cul- In a half-hour, he says, he wrote upon a piece 1ninating in a thrice repeated chorus-this all · of scrap-paper the words of the entire anthem forrned a scene 1nost tnemorable., a study for substantially as they stand to-day. There are psychologi~t or philosopher. Nor was the n1any instances of rapid literary production. effect different, save in intensity, frotn that of . Alexander Dutnas was wont to write a play in ()ther Comn1encetnents. 'There is always the a week, but he pondered over plan and charac- same eager expectancy on the part of alun1ni ters a year in advance. There are cotnparatively and friends of the college, the sarne desire to few cases where conception· and execution alike have our friends participate in the pleasure, the are the work of an hour. Mr. Raytnond says same enthusiasm and kindling of etnotion. All Ludlow wrote everything in this same careless, ... , feel that the Cotn1nencen1ent Ode repays the rapid way. A thought, a dash of the pen- .~, sacrifices we tnake to visit Altna l\1ater. 'twas done. The stanzas of the Terrace Song And yet, this lyric which octogenarian and were con1posed off-hand as the boys sat singing stripling alike love, engraved as it is in all our on sutntner evenings. Later, as a book-reviewer, hearts, was written by a youth in a half-hour. his habit was to read a book on his way home Not many know the story of its co tnposition, in the otnnibus, then to write his critique after and at any rate, it will bear re-telling. Mr. dinner. He was one of those literary geniuses Henry N. Raytnond, class of '58, now residing to whotn all co1nes of inspiration. He was in Cleveland, was Fitz Hugh Ludlow's chutn no Mastersinger, tnaking verse by rule, but a and roo1n-mate. They were both n1ernbers of Minnesinger, who would sing the praises of his the Kappa Alpha Fraternity, and roomed in noble lady out of the fullness of h:s heart. what was then the l(ap. Section, N. S. N. C. 1 give the story in his own words. \' One day Mathernatics and kindred suhjects he disliked. Con1ing out of his final test in n1echanics, he '·' ., '!': i .~ ., . I

'THE OONC·ORDIENSIS. fUbal)y al]d Old Lll]iOI). threw his text-book high in air and shouted, \Whoop la ! good-bye, Jack.\ . - . His hasheesh habit was contracted while in . ' coUege. He brought a piece back with hitn •. At last the people .of Albany have decided to do so1nething concerning retnoving Union to one vacation, and tried to induce others to try •· its delightful effects. Som.e did. Under its . that city except talk. For sotne time they have spell, one niusician found he could sweep the .· been doing the latter, and it really seetns that they organ-keys with marvelous power, while Fitz •. do mean !o do something else after all. Mayor Hugh could and did poetize by the yard. Though John Boyd Thatcher was elected on a Union the habit led to his final downfall, it did not : College retnoval platform, and now he 1nust, of prevent his doing tnuch good literary work : before he died. A year after graduation he , necessity, show the people .that he was sincere. wrote The Hasheesh Eater, de~cribing his What the result will be retnains to he seen. own pleasures and pains. His Little Brother ' A m·eeting, the object of which was to con- and Other Tales appeared i_q Harpers Monthly .. s:ider the matter of the removal of the college as a series of short stories. Later, he wrote . to that city, was held in the High School build- The Heart of th_e Contlnent, describing, I be- · . . Alb S t d · ·1 t Tl 1 · ... e.• 4 e ''\as a ' Jng 111 . ' any a ur ay ntgJ . l n lieve, his travels in the y osetuite Valley. In The Opium Hablt he again gives his personal • good attendance, and there seetned to be lois of · enthusiastn over the subject. Rousing speeches expenence. His death took place in Switzerland in 1870 . were n1ade by Prof. C. E. Franklin, Justice D. AU who read his life story Inu&t feel that 'tjs a Cady Herrick, Prof. ~1elville Dewey, Rev. Dr. d H b h · 1 1 Battershall, F. W. Catneron, Louis VV. Pratt, sa· one. e was not a poet, · ut e n11g1t 1ave been; not a notable tnan of letters, but he 1 night ·Prof. 0. D. Robinson, Father Mangan and have been. Intellectually strong, tnorally weak. J. Newton Fiero. Letters were also read fron1 We think and speak of him as \ Poor Fitz Hugh Bishop Burke, Dr. Fred. Z. Ro? ker, Dudley Ludlow.\ But he has erected his m on umen t, • 0 lcott, W. E. Dri slane a 11 d Secretary of State and Union boys will ever keep the garlands , green upon it. So long as the \grand old seat • Paltner. Nearly ~111 were in favor of the pro- of stone\ endures, so long as Altna Mater gives •. ject, and the result was the adoption of the fol- her dips, will his tnetnory be precious to the .• lowing resolution. wearers of the garnet. A. S. WRIGHT, '82. Resolved, That the chah·tuan of thi~ Iueeting Chas. H. Kilpatrick, '98, has added to his already large assorttnent of trophies a beautiful watch chann, the gift of the New York Athletic Club to the world's champion. The face of the chann bears the Mercury Foot of the club, formed .of 15 rubies and ro diamonds, together with the inscription '' Half-1\file Run \ and the • bearer's initials. On the reverse is engraved, . ''New York A. C. v-s. London A. C., World's Record, I rnin., 53 2-5 sec., Sept. zr, r895.\ Kilpatrick and Geo. Sands, '98, will both re- ceive the M-ercury Foot scarf pin, which is given to every tnember of the teatn, It <;optains 37 diamonds and rul)ies. , appoint a cou11uittee of fifty, which shall be charged, on behalf of the citizens of Albany with the duty of acco1uplishiug the purpose set forth in the foregoing n1e1uorandu 111 in such a rnanner as they Inay deetu proper, and to that end to obtain legislation necessary th~refor and to present such legislation, wl1en obtained, to the com1non council for its approval. Resolved, 'l\'bat such cou1udttee have power to appoint SUCh SUb-COllHnittee Ol' COllliHittees and charge then1 with such duties and responsibilities in connection with this n1atter as it shall dee1u proper. Work is still being carried on in the class roorns, and we have as yet seen no signs of the buildings about the campus being torn down. The weather is rather cold for the students to be turned out and removed at present, so we pt·esutne the work will be delayed until spring at least.

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 5 .(T\oJ]ammedaiJi5f11, 'of}flJeiaQiS{l), j1iQdoo- . i5fll, Budd t;ism. The cotntnittee having in charge the arrange- It is probable that very few of us could give ll}ents for the annual soiree given by the Sopho- a questioneT any definite idea of these great faiths more class are sparing no efforts to mak; the which dominate the religious life oi 900 ~ 000 , 000 · soiree this year the 1nost successful one ever of our fellowtnen. Recognizing the fact, the · given at Union. At first they thought' some of educational department of the .College Young giving the soiree in N ott Metnorial Hall, but Men's Christian Association has prepared a after considering everything carefully they de- coarse for college men that will,. in its eight cided to hold it in the Van Curler Opera House, studies, aitn at a con1prehensive but brief study · .as ha_s been done the past two years. The Van of these faiths in their relation to Christianity. Curler certainly mak~es an ideal place for a sue- \' Few argutnents for Christianity are stronger cessful dance. With the floor extended from than those arising from a careful study of other the stage over the pit and covered with crash religious systetns,\ and this course should appeal excellent dancing room is given; and, too, with to each college tnan. ·. the addition of floral and bunting decorations a The course will be pursued during the present . beautiful hall is obtained. Gioscia's and Gart- term at Union, under the direction of the mis- land's orchestra is to furnish the n1usic, and this s,ionary committee Df the Young Men's Christian is a guarantee that it will be \up to the limit.\ Association, and a cordial invitation is extended : The refreshrnents wiU be served on an elaborate to each man who is interested to join our class. scale by Dobennann, Schenectady's popular The text-book will be Grant's \ Religions of caterer. It is expected that the attendance will theW orld in Relation to Christianity,\ and 1 nay · be the largest ever present at a U n.ion Coilege be ordered of any 1 ne 1 nber of this cotnmittee soiree. In addition to a large nutnber of resi- ( consisting of )? oung, ' 9 6, Rogers, , 9 8, Matti- dents of Schenectad .Y, parties of young people son, '98). The classes will be held in the fronl l'roy, Albany, Lansingburgh, Johnstown Y. M. C. A. rootns every Sunday at 9 : 30 A.M. and other places even tnore distant will be This hour has been found rnost convenient by · present. those who have pursued those studies in the The ladies who are to act as patronesses are: past. '\rhe text-book used during the last tern 1 · Mrs. A. V. V. Rayn1ond, Mrs. ·B. W. Arnold, was Beach's \The Cross in the Land of the Mrs. C. C. Brown, Mrs. J. A. De Remer, Mrs. Trident,\ and it proved a n1ine of infonnation . G · W. Gibson, 1v1 rs. John l{ruesi, J\1rs. E. E. to those who pursued the study of India. Hale, Mrs. C. P. Linhart, Mrs. H. T. Mosher, MATTISON, '98. Mrs. J. K. Paige, Mrs. J. L. Patterson, Mrs. Maurice Perkins, Mrs. I. B. Price, Mrs. C. S. fnatter of Faet. '' \Vbo is the lady,\ my fair friend said, H The one to whon1 Brown is talking now?\ I glanced across at the curly head ; ''His wife is blond, it is she I vow \ In a tone fron1 which the fun had fled- Here is the gem \>of n1y canzonet- · \It can't be his wife, you know,\ she said, ''.For he toul<. off his hat when they rnet.\ 0. W. CRANNELL. Prosser, Mrs. B. H. Ripton, Mrs. J. W. Smitley, l\!Irs. J. H. Stoller, Mrs. }an1es Strain, Mrs. J. R. Truax, Mrs. W. C. Vroornan, Mrs. W. E. Walker, Mrs. C. 0. Yates. 1'he tnetnbers of the Chi Psi fraternity were entertained at the resident of Miss Halsey, on South Church St.~ last Friday evening. Mrs. Clute received, assisted by Miss Halsey, Miss Arthur, Miss Kruesi, Miss Str~ip, Miss Brown and the Misses Bat~s! .

6 THE CONO·ORDIENSIS. The· Shakespeare Club held the first regular .m:eeti11g of the term's series Thursday evening, The alumni of the Medical department of· Jan. 23 . Prof. Bennett delivered an interesting Union University have recently formed the · and instrnctive lecture on the Greek play. He Albany Medical College Alumni Association of. hriefly s•~etched the origin, character and pur~ greater New Yot·k, and on J~n~ary 16th the ' pose of the Greek tragedy, as represented by first re-union of the new assonahon was ~e1e- · the three gTeat masters, .JEschylus, Sophocles bra ted in New York City. The tnemberslup of, and Emipodes, with illustrative readings from the assoda:tir(:}n has now reached seventy-five :· several Gr~ek authors. and applieab()ns for admission are being freely •. Cottolil .and Pershing, ' 9 8, Mattison, Fisher, feceived. Tbe first dhmer was enjoyed in the · Nelson atHI McMillan, ' 9 8, were elllcted mem- banquet hall of the Hotel Savoy, a-nd about ·. hers. Action was also taken to arrange for a fifty members. assembled. cut bt• the Garnet. Two weeks from the The president, Dt·. John W. Warner, occu\ · above date Prof. Edwards will discuss a Sans- pied the ceRtral seat at the table of honor. In · krit play. co·mpany witll hitn wei'e the Rev. Dr. John E. Bushnell, Pr~esident Rayrnond, Professor Albert : Van der Veer and Professor Satnuei B. Ward of • the faculty .of the tnedical college. Atnong the guests were Assistant District Attorney John F. Mcintyre, ofNew Yorl(; John P. Fa.ure, Con1- n1issioner of Ptublic Charities ; Professor Willimn H. Thotnpson, ex-Congres~man Tohn·s. Wise, of Virginia; Dr. Maurice J. Lewis, Secretary of the State Board of Jv1edical Exan:}iners, and St. Clair McJCelway. There were also present the following officers of the ahnnni: Dr. Horace Macy Hanks, vice-president; Dr. Warren C. Spalding, secretary; Dr .. Robert F. Macfarlane, assistant secretary; Dr. Allen Fitch, treasurer ; Dr. John A. Custer, Dr. Robert E. Fivey, Dr. L. N. Lanehart, Dr. Henry F. MuUer, gover- nors. The speeches of the evening were charac- tedzed by n::.any flashes of wit and humor, and were delivere<l by President Raymond, Dr. Warner, Professor Van der Veer, Dr. Hall, John S. Wise, Professor Smith, Dr. Bushnell, Professor Warcd, St. Clai.r McKelway and D·r. Levi. A cotnn1ittee .cotnp.osed of the following men l1as been appointed by the President of the . dass of '99 to see about purchasing class canes: Messrs. 1\fea,cl, Davis~ Gatnby, Medbery, Tucker and Bradford. --------------- \0 l:n(T)'Uf)iGati 0 f]S. We ai~e constantly being congratulated on the exceHence (}f THE CcNCORDIENSIS of this year. . The following are satnples, and they speaks for · themselves : Walter L. Huggins, Esq: Dear Si1': Schenectady, N. Y. Tbe tbppearance of THE CONCORDIENSIS is perfect, and for that reason I can~ot refrain f~on1 reminding :you that the post failed to deliver number 3; of your worthy paper, and you will con- fer a great f.avor upon 111e by Inailing such to n1y address. I a1n, sir, Yours truly, GEORGE V. SMITH, '94. M1·. Walter L. Hngg.ins, 8chenectady, N. Y 1.\[y DE.A..R HUGG-INS: Enclosed please fi11d check for $2 in pay1nent of n1y subscription for C ONCORDIENSIS. I con- gratulate you and the other n1embers of the Board of Editors upon. the success of the paper. It appears to be alive_ I an1 especially pleased with the manner you llave treated the Williams-Union g·an1e Fro1n what I have been able to learn of the par- ticulars of that gan1e I deern your report both dignified .aR<l sportsrnanlike. I trust the fellows will give the paper the support it deserves. Very truly yours, WJ.VL ALLEN, '95.

\ THE CONOORDIENSIS. 7 Tt}~ JuQior Jiop,. The fourth dance of tb1e Junior series was held last Friday evening at Yates' boat house. At this period it is too cold to heat Memorial Hall, and so the boat house was chosen, and a good choice it was, too, for it is especially fitted · for such a party. Of the 'brops given this season the one. on Friday evening was by far the best, :and everybody seetned to enjoy thetnselves itn- · m~ensely. There was a :good-sized crowd present, and the tnusic was beyond description -Gioscia always is. Tl1e comtnittee is to be congratulated on their work, for the series has been a success clear through, both socially and financially. Probably several rnore hops will be give after Lent, and the series is to close with a Junior protnena~le. No rnore will be given this tenn, in order not to interfere V\'ith the Sophon1ore soiree. An1ong those present frotn out of town were Miss Cobb,. of Grand Rapids,, Mi·ch. ; Miss Mason of Baltirnore and Miss Leatnan, of Philadelphia. Frorn the city were Mrs. Price, Mrs. Truax, Mrs .. Watkins, the Misses Beattie, the Misses Walker, Rachel Yates, Carrie Davis, Truax, Johnson, Sikes, Madge Catnpbell, Watkins, Greenleaf, Ellis, Nott, Fraine, Clute, Caldwell, Mrs. LoYejcy, Mrs. Cannichael, Mrs. Briggs, Mrs. Raym:ond and Mrs. Arn1strong. p. plea for 8broiJ~· fneQ. God give us men! A tin1e like this demands Strong minds, great hea.rts, true faith and ready hands. Men whom the lust of office does not kill; Men whorn the spoils of office cannot ~Juy; Men who possess opinion and a will; Men who ha.ve honor-men who will not lie; Men who can stand before a deinagogue And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking; Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog In public duty and in private thillking. For while the rabble, with their thurub-worn creeds, Their la1·ge professions and their little deeds- Mingle in selfish stiife, lo! Freedorn weeps, Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice sleeps. ELI PERKINS. Our Foot-BaH CS<(;alr\. AIR-'' The Ten·ace Son,q.\ Conte, Unioa boys, let's have a eheer, And yell with all our n1ight, To help. our gallant foot- ball n1.en, Who on the gridiron fight; To ,cheer theu.t as they buck the line And 'round the ends ,do dash, And help then1 with a '' hikah,\ As through the line they crash. The garnet dear is bound to wave TriuHiphant on this field, It ~ever to the onslaughts of Tbe enemy can yield; So cheer again, n1y n1erry boys, Let's have another cheer, To help along the Union line That to us is so dear. Now tackle low, ye Union boys, And tackle good and hard, Get low upon the line, we say, Don't let them gain a yard; And Captain '• Beck,'' ehee1· on You1· n1en, they're unde:t· your cont1ul, For surely Myers and Sweet. and Lyon In the line will find a hole. Let's have another cheer, n1y boys, A cheer for Father Brown, As we hear the referee cry out, Fo1· Williams 'tis third down; Now take the ball ye Union rnen, .And push H o'er the line, Fo1· a touchdown n1eans a vietory, Fo1· which our hearts do pine. CHORUS: Our grand old foot-ball tean1, Our gallant foot-ball team, With eleven such men we'er bound to win; Our mighty foot-ball tearr1. R. B. BEATTIE, '9(). At a joint meeting of the Philotnathean and Adelphic societies, held Saturday morn.i ng, Jan. 18, the question of postponing the Allison- Foote debate was thoroughly discussed, and a con11nittee was appointed to confer with a com- mittee of the faculty to see if a later date can be arranged. rrhe shortness of the tin1e before Feb. zo is the objection to that date. I .;

8 THE OONOORDIENSIS. tl ~ fl( acyd TlJere. fl Gtivi ty i Q Y. rn. ~. fl. It looks strange to see th~ address, \Police Amid the genera:l activity that prevails pre- Headquarters, New York,\ appear in the list of · paratory to 1 nid-\vinter 1neets, debates and ora- addresses in the new Harvard catalogue; but Mr ... tori cal contests, only those who study the inner Theodore Roosevelt is one of tile 0 ve:rseers of the · University, and of course his address must appear. life of the student have noticed the quiet but Well, after all,. it will be comforting- to Harvard . steady enthusiastn· that is radiating :frotn the 1nen to know where to find their friends when ·.rooms of theY. M. C. A. There, since the in the m.etropolis. beginning of last week, half-hour prayer tneet- THE HANDSOMEST M. c ings have been held every evening at 7 o'clock. Union rr1en. are dist.inguisl~dng then1selves in · A score or tnore are generally found assembled many directions, and their popularity of course · here, and earnest expression tnade of the interest increases in cons.equence. Naturally they are : of the Christian wo1·kers in their fellow-students. always noted for their good looks but itJs seidorn that such a thing is comn1ented upon in the • papers. In reading the Sunday TV O?'ld a few . ·weeks ago we ran across the following clipping . concerning one of Union's younger trustees and a : graduate in the class of '85-Congrf\ssnlan Wallace · T. Foote, Jr., of Port Henry, N. Y.: \When you go to the Capitol go early; and if you're clever, get hold of one of those. nice little boys that flutter around. Then you give hiin a quarter, and he will tell you st()ries th~t will open · both your eyes. He will point out the handsornest 1nan in Congress and will tell you his narne is Charles Bennett of Brooklyn, N. Y. You will observe that he has a tall and finely n1oulded figure and wears well-cut cl()thes. The wavy blond hair and the finely cut features, and the · long, tawny lllustache that go to 1nake hilu the handsornest man in Congress have a substantial backing in a strong chin, a firru n1outh and a broad, well-shaped forehead. If that s1uall page boy does his duty, he will also point out that other New York Congressman, Wallace T. Foote, Jr., ·whose narne should be bracketed with that of Mr. Bennett in speaking of the bandsotnest rnem- ber. Sou1e won1en declare Foote is handsomer than Bennett. I heard two women quarelling up in the gallery over that very point. I heard one of the wo1uen saying: 'But l\1r. Foote's iron gray Paderewslii hair is so n1 uch rnore ron1antic and picturesque. And that red carnation in his buttonhole and that dark red necktie and gray suit and his jet black n1ustache! Why he is a perfect syntphony in gray and black and red. Of course he's the handsomest.' 'Oh, but he isn't; you know Mr. Bennett has so n1uch the finer figure and'- But something here cut off the cenversation.\ J. 0. Reynolds, '94, assistant engineer at Naugatuck, Conn., spent Sunday in the city. The work is not without fruit. Some tnen are declaring thetnselves tnore strongly on the side of right and truth. These services are preparatory to the ap- proaching Day of Pi·ayer for collegesa It is very fitting that this depat·ttnent of college life should 1nake its influence felt in a decided manner when everything else is .at the height of interest. No student whose sytnpathies are with Christian life for the college man should neglect to attend and help the service of the association. {T\u5iGal flssoeiatio:Q f'lotes. The tnusical clubs are holding weekly re- hearsals, and will soon begin to rehearse twice a week. The outlook for all the clubs is very promising, especially for the bat)jo and rnan- dolin. Mr. Stewart. of the preparat<>ry depart- tnent, is a recent valuable addition to the banjo club. The 1nandolin club has pla.yed at an entertainment at the Presbyterian Church~ and will also play at the First Reformed. Dates have been secured for Albany, Johnstown and Gloversville, and other concerts will probably be given in the vicinity. The quartette which sang at the Northern New York Alumni ban- quet, Tuesday evening, at the Kenmore, was con1posed of Beattie, '96, Gillespie, Medical, '96, Green, '99, and Hild, '98. The clubs have been photographed, and cuts will appear in the Garnet. The athletes are starting to train for the tnid- winter and spring meets, and the \gyn1.\ presents quite a lively sight these afternoons.

THE C'ONO·ORDIENSIS. pl(rSOI]al aiJd Coeal. Blessing, ex-'96,. is doing engir.eering work under Division Engineer Sebring, '92, near · A1nsterdarn. Rev; Mr. Fay, '82, officiated at chapel Jan. 14. Gen. Horace Porter has been elected con1- H. E. Barbour, '98, is ill at iln)lne in Ogdens- ,, 1nander of George Washington Post, G. A. R., burg. of ::Nevv York City. H. A. Fisk, of Albany, has entered the class The first exa111 inations of the tenn in Junior of '99· . History and Psychology occur Tuesday and Bonesteel, '99, spent Sunday at his ho111e in ·• Wednesday of this w·eek. Kingston. We are very sorry to note that the registrar, The essays to be written this tern1 by '99 will · Mrs. Peissner, is, on account of rhetunatisn.1, be descriptive. cotnpelled to use crutches. S. B. Brown, ex-'97, of Gloversville, was in Fox, '99, ~tnd French, '99, ha¥e purchased town, Jan. 2r. the\ Book Exchange,\ fonnerly conducted by Sage, '99, spent the latter part of last week Vossler, 95, and Nellis, '98. at Binghamton. Dr. Raytnond is making an effort to establish Det·by, '96, spent Sunday, Jan. 19, at his a Charter Day celebration for Union College., home in Sandy Hill. to be held annually between Feb. 20 and Feb. 25. Hoxie, '99, visited friends at Saratoga the Rev. Henry G. Dean, '89, has resigned h~is latter part of last week. charge at Lyndonville, N. Y., and is now Dr. George Furbeck, '92, was the guest of enjoying a much needed rest at his home in this friends in town, Jan. zr. city. Wemple, ex-'96, is stationed at Schuylerville Fuller., Williams and Multer kave been on the Champlain Canal. notninated by the students as candidates for the Six Freslunen are registered as candidates for position of scot·er for the coming base-ball the 'varsity base-ball team. season. The candidates for the 'varsity base-ball tean1 The mandolin club took part in the entertain- begin indoor training next week. ment given by the E. A. Darling Band of the Mattison, '98, has preached at Prospect Hill First Presbyterian Church, Friday evening, Chapel for several Sunday evenings past. Jan. 17. The tnandolin and guitar clubs were photo- Lawton, '94, has charge of the engineering graphed at Talbot's, Wednesday, Jan. 22. work between locks 19 and 24 on the E1·ie Robel't C. Alexander, '8o, of the New York Canal; Sebring, '92, has a section west of jjfaz\l aud Express, was in town, Jan. 21. lock 24. A. B .. Lawrence, '99, spent Saturday and The Mandolin club, at a social held at the Sunday with J. M. E. Pruyn, '99, of Albany. First Presbyterian Church, of this city, rendered E. A .. Sommer, ex-'96, who has been ap- several selections which ·were well received by pointed leveler, is stationed at Lockport, N. Y. the audience. S. W. Skinner, '95, who is attending the The petition for a college tnail carrier was Albany Law School, visited friends on the hill, signed by President Rayrnond Friday afternoon Jan. zo. and itnrnediate'ly forwarded to the posttnaster- Young,. '96, occupied the pulpit of the First general at Washington. English Lutheran Church on Sunday eventng, J\tiorris, '96, a.nd P.ayne, '95~ who have been Jan. 12 . appointed rodrnen~ are stationed at Rochester Rev. Will1a 1 n Elliot Griffis, D. D., of Ithaca, . under Division Engineer Little, '88, at one titne an instructor at Union. formerly a professor at Union, occupied the pulpit of the First Refonned Church, Sunday, R. C. Alexander, '8o, Gen. Daniel Butter- field, '49, and Gen. Horace Porter are n1e1nber~ Jan. 19. Dr. Griffis was pastor of the First of the recently formed cotnmittee of 500, an Church for nine years. anti-Platt organization, of New York City. I r, , ,· I , ' I

10 THiJ. OONO'ORDIENS1S. THE CoN:coRDIEN:srs. PUBLlSHI!:D ON ALTERNATE WEDNESDAYS DURING THH C0LLEGE YEAR BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLHG-!H~. BOARD OF' EDITORS: MAJOR ALLEN 'TWIFORD '96, Edi:toTcin-Cbief. WALTER L HUGGINS, '96, :Business Manager. WILLIAM H. HALL, '96, Litera.1·y .Editor. EDWARD E. DRAPER, '97, Asst. Business 1\.fanager. WILLIAM F. CHERRY, '97, ) F. PACKARD PALMER, '97, l Assis,tant Editors. HUBBELL RoBINSON, '97, ) CARL HAMMER, '98, l WILLIAM D. REED., '98, (- P. P. SHEEHAN, '98, I Reportorial Staff. F. Boss, '98, j JJ Me CLINTOGK, '9'7, ( R. VAN BEUSEKOM, ) E. 8. BROWN, 1\lediea'l CoHege. La. w 8ehool. TERMS, SINGLE COPIES, $2 00 PER YEAR, IN\ .A:DVANCE. t5 CENTS. Address all cominunications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Scheriectady, N. Y. Subscribers are requested to 1nake cbecks pay- · able to Walter L. Huggins. Business Ma:lil_ager. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. CHAS. BURROWs, PRINTER AND BINDER, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WHERE is our dramatic club? THE SOIREE of the Sophomore class bids fair to eclipse any that has ever befo1·e beeJ] held at . Union. Enorn1ous preparations are being n1ade by the comn1ittee to have it a grand success, and everybody in college ·who dances sboulcT be on hand. the nl:orning'. We would also like to suggest that . an effort be made where by those papers Inay be put on tHe at an earlier hottr. The New York papers arrive at 8:47, and it is often 11 o'clock, and · aiways 10:50, when they are put in the library. It seems absurd that it should take such a long thne befove the students are able to procure then1, and it wo:m.ld be a great convenience if they could be obtained earlier. IT SEEMS .strange that the librarian should be compelled nearly every week to place a bulletin on the board calling for the return of soine book that has b~en taken from the library. Yet stranger still it seerus <that he is also compelled to call the attention ,of the student body to the fact that sOine one either takes or destroys newspapers which are kept on file in the library, and which are va]uab~e for purposes of reference. This should not be necessary. The library of course, is open fo1· the convenience of every student so far as he uses it as he should, but if any one is caught destroying Ol' ren1oving anything that is of value to it, he should at once be treated in such a n1anner by the student body that it would be necessary ~or hirn to leave the institution. It is a disgrace t() the college that such things should occur, and if the student body would take the interest in the rnatter that they should it would have to be stopped. The sooner it is done the better it will be for all. THE CowcoRDIENSIS heartily agrees with Presi- dent Rayntond in his views as expressed in chapel a few weelts ago concerning the date of the joint debate which is to take place between rnmnbers of the Philomathean and Adelphic societies. This debate is destined to becon1e of great consequence to Union CoHege students, and especially to the n1e1nbers of the two societies. Its importance, however, -will depend more upon the tirne when it is to take piace than upon any other considera- tion. It should be given the utn1ost pro1ninence, not only for its own sake but in recognition of the ATTEN'I'IOX! Albany hereby notifiesth€students of Union College that it will be unneeessary for . the1n to engage board in Schenectady for the spring tern1. Arrangements have beeu rr1ade whereby the college is to be rmuoved to A:lbany during the Easter vacation-all except 1fen1oriaJ Hall and a fleet of canal boats is \h€ing con- ~tructed on which to reiuove it_ at a later dat,e. For furthm· inforrr1ation apply to the eoTlrmittee · of fifty. ·. loyalty and generosity of the founders of the prizes which are to be a warded in its connection. 1\fr. George F. Allison, '84, and Mr. Wallace T. THE CONCORDIENSIS would like to ,ea]] atten- tion to the fact that the daily paJ)€I\S in the library are used by the students 1nostly- dn.ring Foote, '85, have done Inore in establishing these prizes to advance the interests of the two societies and to renew the old time prominence given to debating than anything else which has taken place here for many years. The date upon which this debate is to be held has ·· not yet been decided. A com1nittee was appointed · to consider the matter, but they have not vet re- . a •

e THE OONC:ORDIENSIS. 11 i ported. 'Ve would suggest that they hurry up, ,, gr·eat, and without doubt there ·would be two as tilne is valuable· and th€ winter tern1 is fast ! hundred and sixty .students in one or the other passing away. Why not act upon the President's \ each afternoon and all day Saturday. Besides suggestion and nave it during the latter half of ;' thAse ad vantages there is the superior fire depart- this tertn? The President always has the be~t : nl'ent and the water system, and the general high interests of the students at heart, and he probably I standard of health. There might also be rnen- f)·ave the matter careful consideration befo·re tioned the theatres and the park where the college t:l speaking abou.t it in chapeL boys could play. Albany certainly has a strong case. and is will- WHAT is t11e rnatter with having a colleg ~ banquet'? Now that the work of the tern1 is fairly under headway, we do not see why the student · body should not have a gathering, such as a ban- qnet, w hPre they n1ay corne togPther anrl have a . jolly good titue. It has been the custoru every year to have such a gathering, but last winter, owin~ to son1e unaccountable reason, none was . held. Almost every other collPge in the country has an annual undergraduate banquet, and Union · should not be behind. in this respect. Of course at times there are son1e highly enthusiastic sons of Old Unien who are not satisfied with th·~ feast of reason, but go a little beyond.; but no one can. clailu any barrn is done. A cornrnittee ought t() be appointed-one that has sou1e hustling ability about it-and if we are not mistal\:en the under- . g-raduates will work with then1 in order to insure a banquet that has never been equalled. in the history of the college. ing to giv8 any aruount to have these deparbnents of science and a1·t in her 111idst. There will soon bP over two nlillion dollars ready, and then the coHe~e will go. Good- bye, dear old Dorp! This i:s where a very few of us have wooed and won, where UlORt of us have loved and lost; but you have no cha.rn1s compared with th<? State 111Useun1 and the peniten- tiar),.; no rneinories can hold us here. IT MUST be recognized that during the past year Union has had a great n1any disappoiutrnents in hPr athletics. \\T ith the best foot- ball tPaul she has ever had. and with track athletes of a national and international reputation, still ruany things have conspired to 111ake the past season one to be regretted. Union has had the charges of profes- sionalisnl and dishonesty brought against her, and some testiluony has been brought forward to Rup- port the charges. But there is probably not a college in the country that has had teau1s corn- posed of rnore bona .fide students and 1na.naged in a 1nore thorough business like rnanner than \OLD UNION ,must con1e\ is the big headline of Union. Everything goes to show that all the one of the A.lbany papers. Well, that probablr charges have been founded on tricks intended to decides it, and soon the college 'viii n1ove front draw Union into a snare and pushed forward by '·the hill\ in Old Dorp, and will locate itself ia l jealousy. the vicinity of the penitentiary in the capitol city_ But, nevertheless these reports have been in- Albany is really in earnest this tiine about n1oving dustriously circulated and published; and Union the college. She has held a. mass n1eeting of her to-day has to stand up before thmn and prove her representative citizens, and they are all enthusi- claiin to honorable and honest athletics. How astic on the subject. She has even gone so far as shall this be done is the question that rnust be to 1nake overtures to Schenectady, and offers to answered. And the faculty have taken the first trade the poo1·-house for the college. This would step in the right way by issuing the rule which be perfectly fair and satisfactory to all parties_ they recently have that no student having more The college alurnni would be particularly pleased; than two conditions, or having one after two they could co1ne back in future years for reunions opportunities to ren1ove it, nor any ec],ectic or and sit on the Terrace and sing about\ Old Union irregular student, shall play on any teauJ. This stniling o'er us,\ while the inrnates of the poor- is not a blow at any u1en1ber of any team, but a house were n1aking merry on the campus. n1ere announC'ernent that Union will have none But then, there are the advantages which but actual college rnen engaged in her athletic Albany offers; \ there is the State library and tl1e contests, and that, although the value of athletics geological exhibitions,\ says one speaker; anCI is recognized, they are not to be considered the \the library and State n1useun1s,\ says another~ n1ost important feature in college life. and still a third remen1bers that it would offer the 'Vhat then is left for the student body to do? college the use of the State library and the geo- It is to put the best tean1 in the field that the logical exhibits. Of course these inducen1ents are college has eve1· had. Backed up by this rule the ., '

12 THE. CONOORDIENSIS. college can look straight ahead and fear no one. As long as this rule is en frot·ced there can be no doubt as to the honesty of the teams. Athletics at Union are helped, not li11indered, by this rule, and the students should put forth every e·ffort to 1nake the teanu; the best p()ssible. As HAS been announced, the Inanager of the brack athletic association h::ts 111ade arrangeinents to hold a dual indoor cont€st, on Feb. 7, with a tearu frnm the Cooperstown Athletic Club. J.Jast . year ·we had a similar contes-t,. and owing to several ciscurnstances unlooked for, were beaten by a ve1·y sn1al1 Inargin. At present it lool\s as if we will be beaten again. 'Vith such a eontest so near at . hand there ought to be ma:ny contestants in the gymnasiun1 every afternoon who are ready to do all in their pow.er to upholld the athletic fan1e of their college. Instead, h<Jw 1nany are there? ' Perhaps one or two, and tbe:y only at odd thnes. No one except the rnanagEr seen1s to take auy interest at all in the IllattEq~. This should not be the case. We have our hooor to defend, and if the athletes in college wou[ d do the work they should, our tean1 could COU!I:B bo1ne victors. We have the n1aterial in college, but it aruounts to naught if undeveloped. UI'kless our athletes get in good physical condition, ·~re would ad vise that the Ineet be canceled. O·o-+-o· ALBA:NY The Medical Society of the State of New York will hold its nineteenth annual rneeting on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of ·this week,. at Jennain. Hall in Albany. On Tues- day tnorning the President's inaugural address will be delivered, and a business 1neeting ,will be heJd. The rest of the titne will be devoted to reading and discussing papers. Those doc- tors who will read papers are: W. E. Ford, A. Van der Veer., Herman Myntern,. J. D. Bryant, Willy MeJer, J. Garrigues, Reynold V\r. Wilcox, 1~. Halstead Meyers, E. D. Fisher, M. A. Starr, Seneca D. Powell, B. ~achs, Charles L. Dana, Jas. W. Putnatn, W. C. . Ktauss, George Woolsey, Wtn. Pepper, Jas. H. Etheridge, W. ·G. MacDonald, R. S. Hard- ner, W. S. Cheestnan, W. Browning, FloydS. Crego, H. N. Vineherg, ~1. A. Veeder, W. W. Seymour, W. Hail.es, J. P. · Creveling, M. L. Foster, Grace Peckhatn-Murrav, Louis F. Bishop, Eli H. Long, J. W. Wl~itbeck, E. H. Wilson, W. P. Mason, M. A. Crockett, Chas. Jewett, A. W. Suiter, J. L. Heffron, Geo. T. Elliot, Ernest Wender, E. H. Grandin, P. W. Van Peyma, President Chas. W. Eliot of Har- vard, M. D. Mann, G. P. Clarke, Paul F. Mundy, H. C. Mac Lean, Nathan Jacobson, H. R. Hopkins and J. H. Hunt. But where does the faultlie? It is not in the 111anager for he is doing a.ll he ~an to arouse interest and to make the iJbing a success. Is it not in the fact that the gyr:nnasiurn is so cold and disagreeable that one dislikes to go there to ex- ercise? How it can be expected that a n1an will go to the gymnasium, change to his athletic suit, exercise, and then take a shower bath, with the air so cold that one 1nay eat his breath with a knife, is hard to understan€1. One runs a great risk of catching a cold that will do hhn a far greater i1ujury than the exercise will do hilu good, so he stays out and takes bis exercise in some other way. If we are to do anything at all in athletics, we nntst have so1ne place to exercise without running the risk of hurting our health. Just whose fault it is THE CoNCORDIENSIS does not know. but we call attention to the fact, and the sooner it is ren1edied th t~· better it ·will be for . athletics and for the college. The annual dinner of the society will be held at the Kenrnore on Wednesday evening and preceeding this the President delivers his anni- versary address in the Senate Chatnber. The officet·s of the association are: Roswell Park, president ; Williatn ~1addern, vice-president ; Frederich C. Curtis, secretary; Chas. H. · Porter, tre~surer. Sotne of the younger prGfessors were .enjoy- ing the fine coasting on the :union street hill the other night. Falkner, '96, has left college. Sawyer, '94, was in town\ last week. Bailey, '95, visited friends here last week. Dr. Bartlett l1as resurned his course of lec- tures on electro-therapeutics. Dr. McDonald, after a short illne~s, is again welcomed in the lecture room. Stevens, Rooney, Bignal and King, of the class of '98, are on the sicl< list. '(

New this ues- ,will oted doc- D. nold c. Jas. rei- d s. . L. F. H. T. w. F. son, and nnt- H. lee- . In the THE. OONCORDJENSIS. 13 ~~============================~======~======~====================-=·~~-=-=-==--===-~-- ~ ·• 9 . c7o~~~ 1_0'. Pi IS. . \ ·;~ . <!) UQiO:IJ (iets ary ~l)dow·mel)t. ~~~~;~L ·~~-. tl\ID sc·. OOL . By the will of the late Thomas Armstrong, . , ____, . · of Plattsburgh, N. l: .... , the coHe~e has been tnade ~~,9, . ~ ?iJ; :~~ · a handsome bequest of $roo,ooo. Thi•, together .jl) with other Rtnounfs previously g .. ·iven by the ~ Since the last issue of THE CoNCOR- ~ doner, but in which a life interest had been re- .DtENSlS t:he following n'1mes have been · . . . . . ··d·d· d t ·t.·l· . . · ·t • • · T. t J D. · .. . f. tatn.ed by ht rn, raises the \vho le atnoun.· t to . . a . e o . 1e tegts et . ten o.n. . avts, o .. b.. $ , . . . '0 .. 11 N y . ·0 'T N: . f W .. ·tk' N \r . . etween zoo,o'- o and $3oo,ooo. It has been . 1 we , . • , . . ye, o a Ins, . . , , · d d b . : · · · S . . . 1 D A·. ··11: · f El ··. N. y · In ten e · Y Mr. Annstroug that the funds be a mue . u s , o tn 11 a, . · . d · ·. . M O 'N '11 1 b . . evoted In vanous ways to the departn1ent of . . r. · · et , 1as een rece1v1ng congratula- . 1 ' · · l' · . . SOCIOOgy. twns upon ·1ts appotnttnent as stenographer of Tl 'll h. • . 1 • 1 S C t . 1e WI , w . 1c 1 provtded so generously £or t 1<e upretnc .. our . . o' . . . M D · 1 . d . . . ld U nton, however, has been contested by · r. av1s 1as receive· an appqtnbnent of T-h . . . . . . . 1 . k f s· t • d .M . on:as Atmshong, JL' a son of ·the testator c er o a ena e cotntnittee, an . essrs. N ye~ ..1 • · ' . . . . . . · anu a ,member of the class of '89. The entire and Aulls each have posthons 1n the Ass~tnbly. · . . . · · . . . . .. M R . 1 ·· · d h' 1 . A b 1natte1 Will be left to the cou1 ts, and 1 t w 1 11 be r. · tc 1 v1·site 1s 10n1e at u urn ~everal . d 1 . t 1 probably several months before the final settl.e- . ays as wee (. tnent. . McPhillips has been confined to his home several days by a severe attack of tneasles. Prof. Lawson has our congratulations upon his selection as tnayor's clerk by Mayor Thatcher . . David J. Brewer, who is chainnan of the • Venezuela cotnrnission, and who is also Asso- ciate J ndge of the U. S. Supreme Court, was a . men1ber of the class of '58, Albany Law School. Irving G. Van, lately appointed Judge of the , Court of Appeals, was a tnember of the class of '6 5. The first setn·ester of the law school will close this week with exa1ninations on Thursday and Friday. The last bar exarnination is reported to have been unusually severe, although the present commissionexs had already gained a reputation for giving difficult examinations. It is sotne- what difficult to understand why the exatniners require law students to pass an exatnination that would be ·a stu tn bling block for the ordinary practitioner. Friday, Jan. 31-The Comedian John J. Burke in '' The Doctor.\ Saturday, Feb. 1-Al. G. Field's Man1mouth l\1 instrels. 0 b i tuary. '45-Henry J. Bowers, of Cooperstown, N. Y., died at the home of his daughter, at Ashe- ville, N. C., where he was visiting, on Jan. 14. Mr~ Bowers belonged to one of the oldest and best known fatnilies in Cooperstown, and he was held in high esteem by all. He graduated with honors at Union in the class of 1845, being elected to the Phi Beta Kappa society. Preparations are already being tnade for the inter-collegiate oratorical contest which is to take place at Rochester during the cotning tern1. The Union representative is chosen bv com- petition and must be a n1ember of eitl1er the Adelphic or Philornathean societies. We understand the prelirni nary con test will take place son1etim~ during- the term. From the Adelphic society Myers, Dann, Allen and Swann, and from the Philomathean, Young and Van Deusen are already in training. This con- . test created considerable excitement last year over the close fight between Potter r~nd Crannell in the prelitninaries. Potter, as we all know, won . and carried off the honors with great ease at the final.

14 ~---------·ADVERTISEMENTS.-- PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS. C. E. Gregory, '94, consulting engineer for the water works comn1ission of Red Hook, has · been spending a few days visiting friends on the hill. The class of '99 held a tneeting in the chetni- cal laboratory on Wednesday, Jan. 22, 1896. The first topic brought up for consideration was class canes, and the following tnen were chosen to act as a cotnrnittee: G. W. Mead and W. Tucker. The next subject to be discussed was a class plate for '97 Garnet, and it was, decided to have a steel engraving. The last topic to be .· discussed was that of a class yell. For various •· reasons it had been decided to change the yell as first used. The con1n1ittee appointed for this busine~s, after much hard work, finally pre- sented the following yell, which. was approyed by the class. \Rah! Rah! Rah! Rah! Rah-Rah-Rah! I.~abor Vincit On1nia! Eyia Kui EvcPi .kovral Union!\ CHAUNCEY FRENCH. WILLIAlli R. FOX. (Successors to VOSSLER & Nellis). A NEW FIRM AT oo oo oo ® oo THE OLD STAND. 33 Ne S. S.C. The Union College Book Exehange still eontinueR to receive orders for all kinds of Text Books, Fountain Pens, Engineer's & Draughtsmen's Supplies. Tablets, Pencils, Inks and Second Hand Books always kept in stock. . . . . * . . THE LATEST THING IN \UNION\ STATIONERY JUST RECEIVED. Compare our prices with those of the city book stores and give us a trial, FAIR TREATMENT TO ALL. ----- __ -:--:::_-~-~============= ESTABLISHED 1818. BROOKS BROTHERS, Broadway, cor. 22d St., N.Y. City. Clothing and Furnishing Goods, READY MADE AND MADE TO MEASURE. Our stock for Fall and Winter of 1895-96, now ready in all departments, will be found especially co1nplete and attractive. For Clothing to order we offer a selection of all the various materials now popular in London, with proper facilities for executing· orders with the least possible delay. The particular care exercised by us in the cut, manufacture and novelty ot patterns in our Men's Ready Made Gartllents is also extended to our CLOTHING FOR BOYS AND CHILDREN, and guarantees exclusive styles; at the san1e time the NECESSITY FOR MODERATE PRICES has not been overlooked. Our Furnishing Goods Department contains the usual con1plete line of standard goods besides novelties in Shetland and Fair lsle Sweaters, Lamb's Wool Jackets, etc, etc. Our location one block fron1 Madison Squal'e, is convenient to the leading hotels and easy of access from the principal rail way stations in New York and vicinity. Ci~ price super '])h., andb Orig by us El na,m Th EL Fl J will FU

--~ s, ' now ially all cut, our of THE CONOORDIENSIS. 15 GIVE YOUR PATRONAG-E rro THOSE WHO ARB INTERESTE',D IN UNION. EJ:O:::S:~O~D ·straight 01.1t ~o :1. o·iga:cettes. Cig.arette Smokers .:who are will!ng te pay_ a little 1,11or~ than . the price charged for the ordmary trade ctgarettes wtll find 'I HIS BRAND superior t<;> all others. . . . .. '])h.ese ctgarettes are made from the bnghtest, most dehcately flavored andhighest cost Gol(l Lea! grown in Vi_..;ginia. Thij; is the Old and Original Brand of Stt•aJ.ght Cut Ctgarettes, and was brought out by us .in 1 he yea,: 1875· :BEWARE OJ!\' IMITATIONS, and observt that the firnt na,me as below, is on every package. ALLEN & GI N'TER, The American rfobacco Con1pany, Successor, Manufacturer, ELECTRIC ~:; CITY ~'* Tl OUSERS ~Y~ CO., _ .4@ __ E_._F ._D_A_l_\Y_. __ ~. FtiiE Cu:STon' TAILoRtH<l. ..A.. T LO VV :l?~I:CE S. ~uits, $10 tTp. Trousers, $4 U':p. Overcoats, $16 tTp. ' Drop a postal card and our representative (U. E. HENNESY) will call. 149 80. CENTRE 8T'REE'f. Nex.t door to Barhydt House. The contribution in the February Atlantie which will attract perhaps the widest attention is . an able paper entitled ·\ The Presidency and. Mr. Reed/' It is a thoug·htful presentation o.f the requirements of thf' presidential office and a di'S- cussion of M:r. Reed's fitness for it. Another fe.a- tul'e of ilnportance in this issue is '·Glasses,\ a complete story. by Henry James. Mrs. Rose Hawthorne Lathrop contributes son1e recollec- tions of Hawthorne, covering the period of his . English consulate. The second of Mrs. Cather- wood's studies in provincial France is entitled ''A Little Dom:estic,\ and is a charrni:ag picture of peasant life. The second installment ofF. J. Stiin- son's \Pirate Gold\ is full of dra1natic interest. H. Sidney Eve,rett contributes a paper on'' Unclairned Estates.\ Further contributions by Gilbert Parker,. Bradford Torrey, Henry D. Sedgwick, Jr., and and others, coruplt-te this.readable issue. 'The lecture of President Eliphalet N ott Potter, of Hobart College, formerly president of Union,. upon ''Washington, a Model in II is Library and Life.,\ has been published in book form. It has received much favorable critiCistn from the press and frotn pron1inent perbons, among whon1 is 1\!Ir. Gladstone. COAL. {ffi- -~COAL. ~ ---4--- --~ BU.Y YOUR GOAL OF W., P. GARNSEY, * -----~ ....... COAL.~ Office, 433 State Street. Yard, 229 Park Place. ~COAL ~A. BRO\L\TN & SON,~ ~ FURNITURE AND BEDDING ~ ALL~NDS ~ FOR® .STUDENTS ® USE. THE OLDEST BUSINESS HOUSE IN SCHENECTADY. 30~ ST.A..TE S'T~EET.

16 THE OONOORDIENSIS. ========O:::=J.:::::N=::=L:::Y=:R::=. ::=E::=\L~lA=:= .. ::=B~L=::E:=G=:=:: 1 =::=O=:::O=::D=:S===::=.:H:=A=:=N==-:D:==L:==• E:==. ::::::D=B==Y===o=u=. =R=A=D=· =V=E=~ R=T==I=S=E=R.:::::::S=. ====--=:::::::::: WILLIAM ,DQBE:RMANN, --- GAfERER IF'OR--- VARIETY OF ICE CH'l1JAM AND ICES CONSTANTLY ON HAND. • • • • • • • FHIEl) OYSTEHS $2 PElt llUN11l{l~ll. 1 04 ~ t 06 WALL STREET. · · OytiJl~/r .'itew ·i-n Pail to take Hmne, 25 cents. Oyste'l' 01' Cla-m. Ji\'Ty in a Booo, 215 cen,ts~ --·---------- ----~--- . j I EMPIRE ,. ·STEAM LAUNDRY, I 127 JAY STREET, ,, WALTER & Hl<.DDEN, Props. 1 Student~' $5 pPr term, stl'ictly ) ) j iu arlvance. (~ - - - - - . -······ ...... ,,. ............................................................. ~ ................................. _,._,, ...... ~ .................................................... _ •••••••••••••••••u•••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o•u•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••H-•Ooo•••U••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• --------------~-----------·-----·-···--··--··----·-·---·----------·- .......................... ,_ ................... ~-------------------.: ....................... _ .................................................................................................................................................................................. . - - -- - - 129 \\VALL ST., Opp. Post Office, The largest and :finest line of cigars and smokers suppljes .. in . t)1e . city:. , The \ Garnet, '97 ,'' is ·partly in typ-e. It pro,mises to excel all Garnets. It w:Hl, as usual, be the best Garn,et ever otfe.Fed foQr the 1noney, and greater than all these, it is dair:ned that it is the only Garnet ever published ~i:n . thne for the feUows to take hon1e at Easter. Certainly the '97 board of editors is rapidly conQ~ pleting its work, and have great expectations that the detnand will exceed the supply. Any one wishing to contribute tnatter for publication should hand it to the editor before the end ~>f next week. 1 Qtimesoutof 1 Q The New York Journal recently of- fered ten bicycles to the ten winner-s in a guessing contest, leaving. th~ choice of· machine to each. . ALL CHOSE Columbia Bicycles Nine immediately, ancl one after he had looked at others. The Journal therefore boug~t TEN Columbias at $100 each. On even terms a Columbia will be chosen TEN titnes out of TEN .. POPE MANUFACTURING CO. HARTFORD, CONN. ~896 Art Catalogue for two 2-cent stamps. ::::

It as the ' ~I:n . ~>f __.__ ADVERTISEMENTS. -- 11 ~--·. READ THE ADVERTISEJME.NTS. IT WILL PAY YOU. ---- ~- .{0A @ ce.. --- i~~. -. ·• • • J FOR • ~ F(QR SALE. TO LEASE. MANUFACTORIES ~ AND DWELLINGS. \' F'OR r<ENT ·~ ~ D1,velli1~g Houses and Flats Excelle1~tly Located, Adapted to SJn,all Families. Apply. to ·G. K. HARROUN, Treasurer Union College. 85 BOjRDEN AVE., ,LONC ISLAND CITY. :·' '

18 -----------------ADVERTISEMENTS. -- d z ~ Q ~ w ~ 4) l:: ~ I. LEVINE,\ ~· ·:r: M r )> ::0 0 .r-rJ U'J ~· :(/) ~- 0 n ~ Van Curler Opera House Block. LOWEST PRICES. OV}lYLE & SON, <-9 * E!iQRAVEKS, •* ...-.-.___ALBANY, N .. Y .. =-=--'--'=---=-------=-.::..::.:..--=---:-:.:_;:· -.::....:.-- =-__:_.:--- -- -- ----------- -~------- . AUGUST SCHMIDT, Shaving & Hair Dressing · Opp. Edison Hotel (up stairs.) USE A. SOHMI:OT'S FOUNTAIN PENS, -_ - .~ UNION COLLEGE \'---- SOUVENIR 8POON8J • • ~ FLf\G P~I.NS, ETC. 23 3 8 T A 1 E 8 I., SG H E NE QT A D Y. N, y. RJ\1\HY'fE & J)l~VENPECI{, . . . . .. Wholesale and 'Retail Dealers in ee}lL -:- JlNB -:- W00D Coal, Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, . Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers, 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 ancl 211 Dock Street, SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Y. M. C. A .=-=========== ~tc ~E~ll!:RU~fl~JF, jfk- ~~e6t ~P,inner in the ~§ity for 2S ~~entc. N !'w t\I·SCOV\ey FO~ ruE !!:Ate ... · -~Meal Tickets will be sofd to Students only ..... . II Ill i~ ~ i lj ~ ..... , for $3.00 for 21 Tickets. ' · A certain cure for Dandruff, Scalp and Skin Diseases. Prevents falling of the hair. · J>JIOTOCiRJ\PHIC SU PPtiES .... Of all kinds for Professionals and Amateurs. Full lines of Leading Makes of ..... ~am«ras, Dry plat((8 ai]d ~ard s.)toe~ At the Lowest Market Prices. Dark Room for use of Customers. QEO. H. <i\IARDINEEK, Successor to J. N. McDonald. . WILSON D~tt VIS, I I •• ·' M~R.CHANT TAILOR, Opp. Union Depot Arcade. 544 Broadway, Albany, N. Y 237 STATE ST., ScHENECTADY, N.Y.

