. ' '.\ .··oncordiensis. VoL. XXI. .. - ).. ..... -- PU.B'LISHED WE~KLY BY T.H;E STUDE:NT·s OF UNION COLLECE SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OCTOBER 1· 1 1897. N-0. 2.

2 -ADVERTISEMENTS .--~ UNION COLLEGE .A.NDBZW V. V. IAntONil,D. :0., LL. D., PreaidtD~. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B • .......:The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. ~. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern lan~uages are substituted for the a-,;tcient and the amount of .Mathematics and English studies is increased. After t.he Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Courl!ie Lead-ing to the Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omis~ion of Greek and t:he substitution therefor of additional WOl'k in modern languages and science. 4:. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. F~.­ This course is intended to ~ive the ba$is of an Engineering educa.tion, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and Germ&~ and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the G.eneral Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Cou1.·se in Engineering Leading to the Degree of CJ. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallur4ty and Natural History. For catalogues or for !peeial information address BEN.T .AMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, 1f. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three year! !!trictly graded eourse. In- struct.ions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Ex:penses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. ~rUCKER, M.D., Reiistrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Atba11y Law Sehool.-This department is loca.ted at Albany, near the State Capitol. lt occnpie! a building wholly devoted to its use. The oourse is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Ma~riculatiop. Fee, $1.0; Tuition fee, $100. For oataloguePJ or other mformat10n, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, X. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture t~l'm c<>mmencea Monday, Oct. 5. .For catalogue and informa- t,Jon address DE BA.UN VAN .AKEN, Ph. G., ~eet\eta.ry 222 Hamilton St. Gentle.me11 G a • Buy Your Shoes at -QUI~I'S. The largest and most modern Bo(}t, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York Stat-e. QUlRI'S SHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST., COR. WALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' -AN[)- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhc line~t ligar6 and the lurc~t oft'Jjrug~ AT LYON'S DRUG STOR-E, 335 STATE ST., COR. CEN'TRE4 <9HE ... €DISON QOJIYEL, .......---Scllenectady., N. 1::-r. Centrally located, aJtd the Largest atul Best .Ajpobtted Eiotel in ike city. Headquarters fo1~ Co1n1n ercial Travellers a7tcl Tourists CHf\8. B-ROWN, PROPRIETOR.

The Co11cordiellsis V XXI UNION COLLEGE, :OCTOBER 1, 1897. No. ·2. OL. ·~· ==========p==========~=:== l.lQiOQ, 6; f{td~efield, 4· The first football game of the season was ·· played on the campus Saturday afternoo?, Sept. 25, and was a decisive victory for U nton. It ,vas just the sort of an experience with which to cotnmence the season. It was no e.asy thing for Union but it taught the wearers ·of the garnet that they are a good, strong, courageous tea1n and can pull victory out of the very jaws of defeat. The ruffianisn1 which has caused so ·tnany to denounce the game, was entirely absent, and the spectators without exception pronounced it one of the cleanest gatnes they have ever seen on the catnpus. It was pure, scientific football. There was very little open play. Nearly all ofU nion's gains were n1ade through the visitors' ' line. Ridgefield made several good runs around Union's end but found no holes it1 their oppo- , nent's centre. Game was called shortly after 3 o'clock. Ridgefield kicked off, a close play, and the ball was returned to Albany on a fumble. Union got the ball again on downs. Robinson tnade a good gain atound the end. Ridgefield re- ceived the balls on downs and it returned to Union again on a fumble. Capt. Crichton took the ball through the center for a good gain amid great applause. Ridgefield received the ball again on a fumble and pushed it to the Io-yd. line. Ridgefield made another desperate at- tempt and got within two feet of the goal. They ntade another effort and crossed the line. Ridgefield failed to kick a goal. After a few n1inutes more of play time was called. The second half opened with a good kick off by Hoxie for Union. The Albany teatn re- turned the ball to the centre of the field by end plays. Union won the ball on downs and by l1ard playing advanced the ball nearly to the goal. Ridgefield got the ball on a fumble and made a short gain, but spoiled their opportunity The Ridgefield teatn, cotnposed mostly of fanner college men, av .. eraged several pounds heavier than Capt. Crichton's n1en, but lacked the latter's snap and courage. ' with a fumble. The college men now played desperately and by hard bucking crowded the goal. When on the four yards line, Union made a supreme effort and pushed the ball over the goal line. Hoxie made a beautiful kick, The home team received hearty support from the student body and the visitors also had several \rooters\ with the1n. At the end of the first half, the score stood 4-0 in favor of Ridgefield, • but the cheering on the collegiate side was as strono- as if the score had been revexsed. The · 0 enthusiastn among the students was intense and if their zeal continues, as it has every encourage- 1 ment to do, Union's teatns will never lack support. C~ptain Crichton's fearless playing won several rounds of applause. He was always the first man through the line and when he tackled a man he did not escape. His animation and courage put much spirit into the team and his support was excellent. In fact, every man played well and few fun1bles or errors were made by Union. landing the ball over the bar an1id \1-Iikas'' from hundreds of throats. The ball was put in play again but before either side could score another touchdown, time was called. The followicg was the line up : UNION. POS:ITIONS. RIDGEFIELD. Weed ................ left end ............... Gould Carver ............. left taekle .............. Morl'is Fenton ............. left guard ............. Gilbert Bookhout ............ centre ................. Price Thomas ........... l'ight grra1·d ............ Gilbert Schmitter ......... right tacl~le .............. Cook Price ............... right end ........... Docharty Smith ............. q uartei' back .......... Fanning Robinson ......... left half back ........... Hemke Crichton ......... right half back ........... Keogh Hoxie ............... full back .............. Taylor

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ~ A fak sized audience was present at the chapel service Sunday afternoon, to hear an ad- dress bv the Rev. Dr. Sewall of the First Re- · \ formed church of Schenectady. The address was an extremely interesting one and was greatly enjoyed by those present. Dr. Sewall spoke on the study of the Bible, giving as the key to his thoughts, Psalm I 19, verses 8g to 104 inclusive. We are to consider, this afternoon, reasons and rnotives for Bible study. First let us see what the Bible is. It is an historic literature. It has passed through the · fire with the production of less dross and tnore gold than any other l1istoric literature; so that if vitality be the test, the Bible has a right to be called a literature. And where will we find poetry like the Psahns ; or an idyll like the book of Ruth ;. or history like the five book~ of Moses ; or mystery like that of Daniel and Revelations. It may perhaps be known to some of you that Rotnans and Gallatians are frequently recoin- mended to law students for study, as tnastet·- pieces of logic. The Bible is the literature of a Sen1itic people, and from thetn have sprung the three religions alone worthy to be called world religions; Judaism, Mohamedanism and Chris- tianity. If we leave to science and philosophy the realm of the intellectually provable and knowable, we must go to the Bible as a door to what their province furnishes us no opening, the realm of the spiritual understanding-that larger knowledge which we get fro1n the expe- rience of the soul. Christ said, \Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that pro- ceedeth out of the rnouth of God.\ 1\'he spirit of the Bible is the only atmosphere in which a high spiritual nature can thrive. And where is greater inspiration to be had from contact with character, with men who have led pure lives. The Bible, then, is the hand book of Christian living. The kingdom of God, which is to be guided by it on earth, is the tnost hnportant or- ganization atnong rnen. The old idea was, that our salvation meant to be saved from future damnation. The broader view is now taken, and we believe that salvation is just .as n1uch for this life, for men in their relationships, as for the life to come. And as we study the Bible we become the more ·convinced that this was God's purpose, for He has n1ade it intensely practical. Moses, with all his faith in God, believed also in proper sanitation, and what writings teach so much respect :for the body as the New Testa- nlent? We find econotnics touched on, and in- ternational law, and rnany other considerations which affect tnen, the fundatnental truth about · which is the satne today as then. Men recog- nize this in a large measure, for the Bible has . been translated into more than four hundred languages. Doetor potter j1of)ored. The Rev. E. Nott Potter, D.D., Union's former president and the founder of Union uni- versity, has accepted the presidency of the Cos- mopolitan university, John Brisben Walker's great educational scheme. The position was at first offered to President Andrews of Brown, who has withdrawn his resignation and will re- main at Brown. Eliphalet Nott Potter is the son of Alonzo Potter, hhnself a graduate of Union in the class of r8 r8, and afterwards its vice-president, also bishop of Pennsylvania. President Potter was born in this city in 1836, graduated from Union , in x86r and from the Berkely Divinity school in 1862. Becotning president of Union in 1871, he founded the university and was president of botl1 institutions until r864, when he resigned. He refused an appointtnent as bishop of Nebraska and became president of Hobart, where he re- n1ained until forced to resign on account of ill health. He received the degree of D.D. from Union in 1869~ Rev. John J. Henning, '81; of Green Island, was on. the hill last Saturday. Bray, '99, is recuperating his health in Europe and will not return to college until N ovetnber. Ex-Captain Beckwith, of the '96 baseball team, was on the hill last week, coaching the candidates for this year's team.

THE OO,NCORDIENSIS. 5 Ptofessor Frank Hoffman has returned from a year of European travel and study to res.urne l1is duties as head of the philosophical departtnent. Prof. Hoffman's trip was ,n1ade in accordance with the custom of allowing to the tnernbers of the Gtrculty a year's vacation after each ten years · of service, the year to be spent in som.e form of stud)'· Prof. Hoffinan first visited the universi- ties of Glasgo'v and Edinburgh. At :ihe latter he attended a course of lectures given by Prof. 'Calderwood, whose work on Ethics 11a.s reached its sixteenth edition. Y. fn. '· ~- Ulor~ for t~~ Y({ar. The college Young Men's Christian associa- tion have outlined their work for the ,coming year. In June the association sent a delegation of twelve students to Northfield, Mass., at which place a convention is held every year, at the in- vitation of Dwight L. Moody. Here large nunl- bers of college students assetnble forth~ purpose of Bible study, and are trained to become lead- ers in college Y. M. C. A. work. The Y. M. C. A. movement is now a recog- nized factor in every well organized college, and the local college association is doing its best to tnake the work so beneficial that the students will be induced to join in this great movement. During the coming year there will be a systetn- atic study of the Bible. The work has been ar- ranged in graded courses. The Freshtnen will take up '' The Life of Christ,\ as given in St. From Edinburgh Prof. Hoffman went to Ox- ford where he ren1ained three months in study under Dr. Edward Caird, who so worthily fills Jewett's place as tnaster of Balliol. Pt 1 of. Hoff- man!'s attention was given to the evolution of re- ligion and to Kant. While at Oxford he had the pleasure of tneeting Dr. Max Mu:ller and Mrs. Hun1phrey Ward. . Luke. The Sophomores, ''The Early Church, with special reference to the Life of St. Paul.\ The Juniors, '' The Epistles of St. Paul.\ The After leaving Oxford, he went to BeT:Iin and took up the chief object of his trip, the study of the philosophical tendencies of the last fifteen years. At Berlin he studit-d under the erninent philosopher, Dr. Frederick Paulsen. Pv()f. Hoff- · man found a vigorous criticism ofthe old masters and a strong demand for independent Tesearch with reference to the practical dernands of mod- ern life. He says that at present there :is great interest being manifested in all the universities of Europe, in the philosophy of the state, and a . strong feeling exists that the state as a body poli- tic n1ust take up tnany of the matters tnat have fonnerly been left to the individual. At Heidel- berg, the professor renewed his acqttaintance : with Prof., Kuno Fischer, under whom he pur- sued a course of study about ten years a.go. He . says that Heidelberg is an ideal university. Out • of tbe 150 professors on the faculty, o:nly forty receive salaries, the others teaching purely for , the love of that mode of life. The remainder of his vacation was spent vis- iting places of interest. He arrived home on July 28, rnuch improved in health. . Seniors, '' The Old Testament, or sotne portion of it.\ A half hour each week will be devoted to each study and the students will be assisted by the faculty. The class in tnission and personal work will meet one hour each week. During the fall tenn, \Niissionary Biology\ will be taken up. During the winter term, ''The History of Mis- sions.\ During the spring tenn, '' 1v1issionary Methods.\ The association will be visited at various titnes during the year by secretaries of the inter- national association, who are constantly travel- ing from college to college. The college Y. M. C. A. rootns are located in the middle section of South college, '\Yhere religious rneetings are held every Tuesday even- ing at seven o'.clock, lasting for forty-five n1in- utes. Every Sunday afternoon meetings are held in the college chapel, which are addressed either by the president or some outside clergytnat;· It is desirous that every student take an tnter- est in this Christian work, and encourage their fellow students to join the association. The freshmen especially are invited to come !nto _the weekly meetings and take up the course 1n Btble study.

THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE CoN:coRDIENSTS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE S'TUDENTS OF UNION CO:LL:EGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. P.~R.:LEY PooRE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-ln-Ghief · 'OB!A...\RLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager ;(JA.R.L HAMIVIER, '98, - - - - - News Editor. .ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F~ R. CHAMPION, '.99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G-. c. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. ]L()UIS 'T'rX~ING-, 1900, P. L THOMSON, 1900, D. \\T. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: CoNCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents P' .AR'I'HENON, $1.00 per Year, in Advance ~oth Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. A...ddress a.ll CODH11Unications to THE CONCORDI- . ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. E:mtered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Cbas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. ~EGISTRATION OF CANDIDATES. All members of the freshman class desiring positions on the Parthenon and Concordiensis boa:rds, are requested to register theiT names wl'th. Mr. Hammer before noon, Wednesday, ~october 6. 'THERE has been much talk in the past about the efficacy of ''good organized rooting\ as a .factor of atblectic ,success. and its importance shculd not be under-rated. In the game with :Earnilton and in all future games the men on the otller side of the ropes should concentrate and ch_eer their team on to success. It is enough to ~a1npen the a1·dor of any tean1, this claminy, wet -\blanket of silence. ences in college life that can be less advantageously neglected. The discourses are invariably crisp and instructive, almost always inspiring. To the most .skeptical' they at least would serve to relieve- the tedium of what is too often considered a very dull day. THE two literary societies, the Philomathean and the Adelphic, should not be allowed to drift into abeyance because of lack of interest or inat- tention. These societies have a place of no small in1portance in the history of Union college, and should have a place of no less distinction in her conternporary life. The mournful fact that many college men use bad gramn1ar is due largely to !he- fact that they do so little speaking before a critical audience that dares to cr.iticize. And in later years, who will conduct public meetings as well as those fan1iliarized during college days with public speech and parliamentary procedure? No one is debarred from these societies, rich or poor. On the cont1·ary, the membership of everyone is earnestly solicited . LAST Monday morning at the second college . meeting of the term, the first definite steps were taken toward the adoption of a constitutional honor system. Althougl1 there has always been an honor system at Union, unwritten and unde- fined, as there ever is where college men assemble. mistakes and misunderstandings have unavoid- ably occ~1rred that have proven costly, if not to- '1'1-rE attBntion of the students is called to the f&uro'clockmeetings held in the chapel every Sun- day afternoon. At these meetings, which are not tiresome nor long drawn out, President Ray- m.ond, or some member of the local clergy, delivers a short discourse of especial interest and import- ailee to the unde!graduate. There are few influ- . the college, at least to the individual. And yet the only opposition to the above n1entioned constitu- tional system has found genitian in the belief held by the minority that the old system was, and is, sufficient. That this belief is not well sustained by past experience, requires no specific citations of fact. It is a truth recognized by college men all over the country that there are those in every institution of learning, however high the standing, who will take advantage of their neighbors and of themselves at the slightest opportunity. That this is caused as Inuch by lack of judgment as- lack of morals, goes without saying. And this very fact is what makes a written constitution a necessity. \You can't legislate ntorals,\ of course not. _ But you can do rnueb, by concerted action, in calling out the best that is in a man; and, by

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 7 making biru feel his responsibility, in developing his judgment. While we feel that there are none who are .avowedly opposed to the spirit of the proposed constitution, we hope that in the formu- lation of the work, that spirit 1nay not be killed. 'TIIE results of last Saturday's game have been apparent in other departments of student activity than that Inerely of football. vVhile the Yictory has enthused and so strengthened the 1nen1bei'S of the tearu and the players on the scrub, it has also stirred to increased effort the Inein hers of all other undergraduate organizations. Further, it has gone forth to clahn the attention of the alumni and friends of the college at the outAet of what promises to be a brilliant season. One of the most important lessons taught by the contest was that courage and spirit can accomplish results im- possible to n1ere weight and experience. Best of all, .it has exemplified to the fresh1nen class what college spirit is, in concrete form. If \college spirit is public spirit for college men,\ we have seen, prospectively, a Slllall band of public spirited citizens, cheered on by other public spirited citi- zens, win a battle in the face of an organized oppo- s'ition before which less courageous citizens would bave faltered and failed. Errata. In the last issue of the Parthenon, several mis- takes crept in for which we hasten to offer amends. Unfortunately all the n1istakes, which were of a peculia1· aggravating nature, occurred in the article by Professor Bennett. According to the copy, it -was a ''bore,\ not a ''lovP,\ that Horace fled as the plague. The satue substitution' of terrns should ae lllade in the last clause of the same sentence. And when Horace moralizes it is on \The beauties of Nature,\ not on that doubt- ful quantity, \the beauties.\ On page one, '' ob- ject\ should have been ''objective,\ and \races\ should have been in the singular number. On page three, \serious\ should have been \serious- ness.\ Hereafter the contributor 'vill be furnished a revised proof of his article before publica.tion. -ED. ')'leGrolo~y. General Frederick Townsend, '44, of Albany, died at the Wayside Inn, Lake Luzerne, on Saturday morning, Septernber I I. He bad been feeble during the entire sutntner and had suffered much from weak lungs, which weak- ness eventually caused his death. General Townsend was born at Albany, Sep- tember zr, 1825. A few years after his gradu- ation from Union he was admitted to the bar. Having always been fond of rnilitary affairs, l1e was appointed adjutant-general of the state in 1856. The n1ilitia was at that tin1e in a rather disorganized condition, but he set about ener- getically to refonn it, and pt·epared the first annual report which the departrnent ever ,made. The next Governor reappointed him and it was largely on account of the continuance of his efficient work that the state '\i\?as able to fur- nish so many troops to the government at the beginning of the civil \iVar. In r861 he declined reappointment as adju- tant-general and organized a regiment of which he became colonel. He took part in the battle of Big Bethel, but soon afterward was appointed major in the regular arn1y. As rnajor, his first duty was to organize troops in Columbus, Ohio. He fought in the battles of Pea Ridge and Stone River and in other engagen1ents in the west. In r863 he was appointed assistant provost n1arshal general in Albany where he retnained several years. He tnade an inspection of the tnilitary posts in Arizona in r867, and resigned fron1 the army in r868. In 1878 he becmne a brigadier-general in the state national guard and afterward adju- tant-general again under Governor Cornell. He brought the nutnber of guardstnen up to rz,ooo effective men and successfully urged the adop- tion of a state service unjform and a state catn p of instruction. 1 43 The Rev. Stephen Turtelot, '~ once a prorni- nent Methodist minister in Herkhner county, died on Wednesday, Sept. 8, at the home of his son at Onondaga Valley. He was born at Herkin1er, October 29, r812,, and when 21 years of age was graduated from Union college. l-Ie studied n1edicine and was graduated from the Geneva Medical college and practiced for a number of years in Newport. Then he was admitted to membership in the Northern New York conference of the Methodist Episcopal church. He took an active part in politics and in 1866 was n1en.1ber of assembly from the first district of Herki tner county.

8 -----· .c'\D VERTISEMENTS. ---- The tennis tournament is being finished this week after much deiay caused by rain. The idea of a class tournament had to be abandoned, making the gatnes handicap and open to the students, sixteen of whom entered. The winners of the first round were Merri- man, '98, Sawyer, '99, Stewart, 1900, Lawton, r9oo, Hoxie, '98, Nevins, 1901, Van Vlack, 1900, and Gutmann, '98. The second round wa:s won by Merritnan, 'g8, Stewart, 1900, Hoxie, '98, and VanVlack, 1900. The serni -finals were won by Stewart, r 900, and Hoxie, '98. The result of the tournan1ent wiH be given in next week's issue. The electric launch Ianthina, with Prof. Har- , ris and a party of students from the geological departtnent of Cornell university~ has been in the vicinity of Schenectady for the last few days. 'Who is .• s C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who i n1 ports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and '\Vinter. CALL AND SEE THEM. 3 Central Arcade, .SOHENEOT AD Y, N.Y. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- 'kJ:try and ~beam ~leanin~ and klteinS W o!!Its. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-claa;s work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJAGOB RINDFLEISCH, 13 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Open until9 .P.M. 'Vork done at short notice. The students are :Studying the geology of the Mohawk valley as. a part of their university work. The Helderbergs and other fatuous geologicat localities in this region were visited, for the pur- pose of collecting fossils and studying the differ- ent formations. 'rhe field work in the J\iohawk valley is being conducted by Mr. E. R. Cum- tnings, Union, '97, who is now an assistant in the geological departn.1ent of Cornell university. -Daily Union. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. BOTHAM, 214 GLIN1'0N ST. Students' Trade Solicited ! Star~ Restaurant, R. MORRISON .. MEF\L 'TICKETS ~21 FOE $3.00.__.?> 14:4 So. Centre St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

-ADVERTISEMENTS.- 9 ====================:::=;========================- -~----- Qterary Soeieties at Ulor~. T'he Philomathean society met last Friday afternoon in their roo1ns in South college, and elected the following officers for the ensuing year: President, Perley P. Sheehan; vice presi- dent, George Perry; treasurer, H. K. Wright; secretary, StephenS. Read; executive commit- tee, R. C. Ga1nbee, L. S. Broughton. At the last inter-society debate the Philotna- theans won the society prize of $5o, and a com- mittee consisting of Griffeth, '98 ; Reed, 'g8, and Noel, '99, was appointed to use the $5o in fitting up the roon1s. The Adelphic society last Spring, elected the following officers for the ensuing tenn : Presi- dent, Peter Nelson, '98 ; vice president, W. F. Breeze, '99; secretary, Carl Dalton, 19oo; treasurer, John M. Tuggey, 1900; executive comn~ittee, E. H. Rogers, '98; B. E. Huggins, '99, and Louis rfinning, 1900. Lane, '95, and Derby, '95, visited friends on the hill last week. I~SifS -~ ~Ull!~~l[ll(O)!NJS ~ ~ and othm· cut flowers \'\ constantly on hand. . . .• JJw.- GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., . . . THE LEADING •.• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICK. II HIGH GRF\DE SHOES II -AT LOWEST PRICES.-· W. tc L. E. CURLEY, 514 FULTON ST., TROY, N. Y. Largest Mann:facturers in America. . . I • I • • of Engineers' and SurvsJors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Iustru1nen ts and Materials. WH ~.r. .. ~.~-- .. -~ ... 80 N ~ \ * E!lQRJIVE.KJ, * ..-..--ALBANY, N. Y. E. Lee Hegeman, 19 M. S. S. 0., representing * HULBERT BROS. & C(l.~ ~ .... of New York. DEALERS IN ALL l(INDS OF SPORTING GOODS . Students can obtain the best quality at the lowest figure. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Samtoga Mineral \-Vaters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Craokers. 245 State St. PATTON & HALL. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.

10 Yates' Boat House. The largest and best equipped in the State. Excel- lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY,. N. Y. COAL .• •• ,,a•~ The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEED:ER BROS., No. 424 STA'TE STREET. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), 6 PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photograp:hic Supplies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for p0pular . prices. Special attention given to out-of-door , grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 496 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College-, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '9'7 Cornell University, '90 t0 '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '9'7 l31!1\r!'YTE ~ k)E1CE]'!:E'EC?;l(, o-;- wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}iL aQd W00B Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 306,308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St •• and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. Wade & Co., FL0F\ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MA.IDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE,-- ... ..-.-. HATT·E:R AND FURRIER. .A..lso, T'l\unka Bag11, Suit Oases, Glo1Jes, \lhnb'l'eZlas (Jan~s,Etc. 227 S'fA'T'E S'fREE'f. . At .. THoMAs' Music STORE :~ (j; (j; w w l!J No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHEURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. The UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. F~aternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ~-..-THOMAS HAS THE BEST. EMBOSSED-\'\''''\'''''\'' UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, :SY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall Street, • - SCHENECTADY, N.Y. \

\ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 5asc BaLL 1 Supplies, Spalding League Ball, }Iits, Masks, ete. Managers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Traek and Field, Gymnasiuin Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Sururner Sports free. '' The N an1e the Guarantee.\ A. 6. SPALDING & BROS., NewY~~ii?.icago, W:IENCKE'S- ........ l)or.rtEL GE~MANIA AND J1ESJitAU~ANTJ.l. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. . P'ICKFOR.D BROS., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESII MEATS AND POULTRY. ·. -~Ga1ne in season. T~elephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. =================------- Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE 'ST. · Wholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Co1nmission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and ]\'ruit.s . BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSOH.A UM Pipes. Do You Want Gold? TIIE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GENTRAL PHARMAGY, CoR. S'l'ATE ST. AND R. R. JrVILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor. No. 23i' State St., SOHEN:EOTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. S:8W .ARD H. FRENCH. BNI®N eoLLEeE B®OK EXeJiANGE. All College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary :ollege supplies. Everyone desires to keep informed on Yukon, the Klondyke .and Alaska Gold Fields. Send lOc for large compendium of vast information, and big color map, to Hamilton Pub. Co., Indianapolis, Ind. FURNISHED ROOM Warmed and lighted, $1.50 a week; with board, $4:.00. I11quire at 114 Nott . Terrace. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 -----ADVERTISEMENTS.- f.lRES A R9SES, GU'T' FLOWERS FV RNif;IH:E,D A1' SHORT NOTICE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Peari 'St., ALBANY, N. Y. Intercollegiate B'l1reau ror--.o <4AP~, goWN~ AND HOODS •. I1lustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTitELL AND LEONA...R.D, 4:7~-478 R1•oadway, ALBANY, N.Y. S. ~l.. ~~~~EN, ~~., l\1 en's • • F ur11ishing Goods. Sole agent for ll.AN1\N & SC)N MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 38 1\:I:a..iden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. Jdall Jlasqio'ls aqd 1Jab1~cs READY F'OR YOUR INSPECTION .A.T JOHNSON'S, THE PoPuLAR TAILOR. fl. 35 ~fAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, :N. Y. 8. F\ USTI N ENGRAVI·NG GO., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers • Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College wm·k a Specialty. F. A. VanVranken. F. VanVranken. VF\N VRF\NKEN BROS., lMPO~flliNG <9AILORS, 48 NORTH PEARL Srr., Notman Building. ALB ANY, N. Y. P. F. McBREEN R. T., MOIR, ~~======-­ sooKs, FINE 81'A'T'IONERY, PIG1'URE FRAMING, 218 William St.,, New York ALWAYS PRI'NT' ·E·R READY . . THE ONLY FLORISTS IN ALBANY Who own. their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. \i\TH ITT LE BROS. .ALL CUT F\LOWERS FRESH CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. L()ng Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST~DESIGNS. WALL PAPERS, Errc. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ..••• 888 State St., Scheneota,dy, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL~~ HEAD- TO- FOOT . ALBANY, N. Y. ~SAUL. ' '

' ' The (uxros r·;·)~L.LEG-£-1 t SC JI }~I\ l~ (]'f1\DY) . . '--.·--- - ----· d .. . . onco~r 1ens1s. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE SCHENECTADY, N. Y. OCTOBER 8, 1897. No. 3.

2 -ADVERTISEMENTS -- UNION COLLEGE ANDREW V, V. iAY:MOND, D. D., LL.D., Presbhnt. UNION COLLEGE,. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. . l. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.~The usual Classi(}a.l Course, including French and German. After Sopho- mor& year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern lan~u.a~es are substitt1ted for the ancient. and the amount ot Mathematics a.nd English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of ele<'ti ves is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B.-Thi~ differ:sfrom the A. B. cour~e chiefly in the omjf!\'linn of Greek and the s11bstitution therefor of additional work in modern langmages and science. 4.. General Course Leading to the DegTee of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis ·of an En~iueering educ2tion, inclu.ding the fundamental p1·inciples of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and Gel'Ina.n, and a full course in English. r.. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This .differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 'o. Electrical Course Leading to t11e Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This cou·rse is offered in co-operation with. ·the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Gra(luate Course in Engineering Leading to the Dejp•ee of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4:, 5 or 6. '':rll.ere are also special courses in Analytica:l Chemistry, Meta1lur~ and Natural History. For catalogues or for special informatiOn address BENJAMIN H. lUPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. ---------------- DEPARTMENT OF MEDlC:INE. A..lbany Medical College,_:Term commences last Tues- day- ~in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- structions by lectures, recitations~ laboratory work, clinics and pra..ctical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantage:::; exc:ellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100:. perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee~ $25; dissecting fee, $10 ~laboratory course, each, $10. 'For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER. M.D .• Re~istrar. Aibany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department is located at .Alna.nyl near the State Capitol. l t occupies a. building wholly de-votea to its use. The course is one year, divided into two se:mesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee~ $10; Tuiti()n fee, $1.00. For catalogue! or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean . .ALBANY LA. W SCHOOL, .Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- t.iCJn addresR DE BAUN VAN .AKEN, Ph. G., ~ecretary, ~~2 IlamHton Rt. Buy Your Sboes at QUI~I'S. T1:te largest and ntost u1odern Boot, Shoe and Rubbe1· Emporiuu1 in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST., COR. WALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' -------·--- ---·-- -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar~ and the lure~t o£ Drug6 AT LYON'S DRUG S'TORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CEN\\r:RE. (9HE .. ~ €DISON F)OTitEU, ----Scl:tene y, N. Y. Centrally located, and the Largest~.· a:ud Dest Apjwi1zted Hotel z'n t.lie cny. Headqua1'iers for Commercial Travellers and Tourists G!H:RS. sRow·N, PRoPRIE'IoiR,

The Co11cordieJlsis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, OCTOBER 8, 1897. No. 3. Tl]e (4ame witl] j1amiltoQ, 4- 4· The first of the scheduled ga1nes for the foot- ball championship of the New York State Inter- collegiate Athletic union, was played on the carnpus last Saturday afternoon, bet\veen Ha rn- ilton and Union. The ga1ne was close and ex- citing throughout and was witnessed by a large nurnber of spectators. The result of the game was a tie, each side scoring a touchdown and each side in turn failing to kick a goal. The two tean1s were pretty eYenly tnatched but the wearers of the garnet in \Veight averaged lighter than their opponents, but nevertheless put up a tnuch faster ga:tne. Especially was this evident in Union's oflensive play, while our defensive was far inferior. The game was char- acterized by clear, fair playing and the i111partial decisions of the officials. Hatnilton worked with n1uch success a long pass frorn one half back to another, £lnd it is this play that cost 1 Union the gan1e, for in all other respects Union's playing was superior to her opponents. Both teams are anxious to 1neet each other again, and if the managers can arrange a satis- factory date the teams will prohably line up on neutral ground. As \Vas the case in the gatne tvvo weeks ago, the score at the end of the first half vv·as 4-0 against Union, but this fact did not see1n to de- press the \ rooters\ whose hearty support did tnuch to encourage the eleven. 1'he game was called at three o'clock. I-Iam- ilton won the toss.-up, and chose to defend the south goal. Hoxie started the gatne with a long kick which went behind bounds. On the second attempt the ball was caught by a Hamilton back who was downed on their twenty-yard line. Union soon got the ball on downs and started to advance it towards their opponent's goal. Hatn- ilton took the ball but were unable to gain and lost it to Union. When only five yards fror:n the line Union furnbl:ed and then had to bring into practice her defensive play, for Han1ilton began to steadily push the leather back across the field. Several times they fumbled, but it was always a Hamilton man who feB on the ball. When only one yard fron~ Union's goal line, Hatnilton fum- bled and when the n1ass of players had been un- tangled,. \Trollt\ Bookhout was found on the ball. Hoxie kicked, but only for twenty yards, and soon by a series of rushes, Hamilton had n1ade up the lost ground and scored a touch- down. CuBningham failed to kick a goal, and before the playeTs could line up, tin1e 'rvas called for the first half. I-Iamilton opened the second half\vith a kick- off. Iloxie caught the ball and made a pretty run to the centre of the field. Crichton then took the ba 1:1 around the left end for t'-'rentv yards, but Union, after another short gain, lost the ball and vVe her for Hatnilton tnade a splen- did run of fifteen yards around the right end. Union got the ball on downs and then started toward the Hamilton goal. l'ime and again they went through the Han1ilton line, \-vhich seemed totally unable to resist the onslaughts of Capt. Crichton's tnen. On the ten-yard line Hamilton got the ball and kicked, but it took only a few more rushes on the part of Union to score a.touchdown. Hoxie tried for a goal but the ball struck the side of the goal-post and glanced ofr. The ball was again put in play by I-Iatnilton but after a few tnoments' playing titne vvas called, with the ball on {Jnion's hventy-yard line. Two halves of twentv and fifteen minutes ., each were played, and the officials were: Lines- tnen and timekeepers~ Messrs. Pollard and Towner; refe11ee, first half, Mr. Wilson, second half, Mr. Richards; umpire, first half, Mr. Richat·ds, second half, Mr. vVilson. The two teams lined up as follows: HAl\'IILTO~ (4) U:NION (4) Millha1n ............ rig·ht en<l ................ Price Stowell ... , ....... right tae kle .......... Sch1nitter Finn .............. right guard ............. Fenton Red1nan .............. centre ............ Bookhout Drumn1ond ......... left guard ............. 'l'homas Cunningha1n ....... left tackle ............. Carver Warner .............. left end ................ \Veed Hey I. ............. quarter back ............. S1nith Rogers .......... , 1·ight half back ........ Crichton Weber ............ left half back ........ Robinson Robertson ........... full back .............. Hoxie

4 THE OONOORDIENSIS. I I}tereolleQ ia t.~ F tl} letiG5 Di seussed. The advisory board of the New York State . Intercollegiate Athletic union held its annual meeting Saturday afternoon at Bagg's hotel, Utica. The fol~lowing representatives were present from the :£our coUeges composing the union; From Union, Prof. Howard F. Mosher, F. E. Cullen; fro1n Hamilton, Prof. W. H. Squires, C. J. France, George E. Dunhatn ; from Hobart, P1·of. J. C. Fernand, ] . M. Johnston, J. C. Jager; from Colgate, Prof. J. F. McGregory, W ... E, Weed, E. H. Smith. 'The finance cotnmittee reported that $558.14 had been received at the athleti'c 111eet last May, of which $281.30 remained in the treasury. Of this. amount, $5o was appropriated for each coUege and turned over to its representatives. 'The following officers were then elected for . the ensuing year : President, W. E. Weed, Colgate ; vice-president, F. E. Cullen, Union ; secretary, J. C. Jager, Hobart; treasurer, George E. Dunhatn, Ha111ilton. The following con11nittees were na1ned by the president: Finar1ce-Prof. Fernand, Hobart, Prof. Mosher, Union, Prof. Squires, Hamilton, Prof. McGregory, Colgate; athletic-E. H. Smith, Colgate, Prof. McGregory, Colgate~ Prof. Squires, Hatnilton, C. J. France, Hat11il- ton, F. E. Cullen, Union, J. C. Jager, Hobart; judicial-]. :tv1. Johnston, Hobart. Union's representatives attetnpted to change the niles so that t:he povver of arranging schedules and deciding on a unifonn system of guarantees should be transferred fron1 the captains and tnanagers to the advisory board. After some discussion the resolution was tabled until the neKt meeting in March. There was considerable discussion concerning the existence or non-existence of a baseball and football league. The constitution was interpreted to provide only for a track athletic league, thus leaving the question of the other two leagues to the discretion of the managers. If they arrange a complete schedule of gatnes, the league has then a tangible e:xistence but only to the extent that it is responsible for the pay1nent of guaran- tees. Utica vvas again fixed upon for the Memorial day games of 1898 and the board then adjourned. tlQiOQ'5 fnu5ieal lqterest5. Now that the regular college work has gotten into good working order, atten6on is turned to the various undergraduate organizations and not the least atnong these is the musical association. The managers are confronted daily with the question, '' What are the prospects for the year?\ To all such questions an indefinite reply is received. The brilliant reputation, however, made by the clubs last year is not yet forgotten by the students, the alumni, nor the audiences which listened to their ·concerts. Some of the mem- bers of last year were lost by graduation but there is still an1ple material in college for clubs of the fir'5t rank. Mr. Frank MacMahon and Clarence Stewart, who conducted the glee and banjo clubs re- spectively last year, will again fill those posi- tions. The place of Mr. O'Neill as leader of the mandolin club will be filled by Prof. Henry McClure, the director of the fan1ous Capitol City Mandolin club of Albany. The tnanagers have .undertaken son1e new de- partures and it retnains with the student body whether they will or will not co-operate and make the association what it should be, the ex- ponent of the refined side of college life as found at Union. A review of these facts will make it evident that the ''prospects \ of the association are encouraging and it will be a cause of regret if minor and personal advantages are sought in preference to the success of an organization which has done the college so much good and of which every student has a reason to feel justly proud. To create and maintain a successful club, cotnpetent leaders are required and their services cannot be secured for a mere pittance. Until the reputation of the clubs is better established they are compelled to travel on new ground for actual expenses, therefore for the present the financial support of the students is necessary. Bray, 19oo, of vv\\illiams college, spent Mon- day among friends on the hill.

'l'HE OONCORDIENSit;. 5 leaving e1ght events to be won by th.e man who works hardest. Captain Sylvester .and manager Although football ,is taking the greater part Cox are doing all in their power ; let us show of our attention at present, we are soon to have · that we feel how tnuch \college spirit is public an inter-class track and fiel<l n1.eet in which the .. spirit for college n1en\ and .make .a success of freshmen are expected to show their colors and the meet. in which we can get a forecast of the athletic strength and skiU thalt we expect to hold up the . colors of old Union next spring. In this branch of sport we have always been strong and while · present appearances do not point to a teatn of such record breake~rs. as we have known form- erly, yet we can expect consistent all-round re- sults of a high class .. Several entering fTeshmen have won renown in their preparatory schools. Weed, who has made the football teG!~m, has records in the high hurdles and pole vault better than those of the college which have stood fot- el,even years. He has also -won sevet·a 1 quarter mile races in fast time. Bennett won. 1nile and quarter tnile in · the spring n1eet of tl'le An1sterdan1 High school. Han·an is well known as a good quarter miler, and Keller's reputation as a pole vaulter and sprinter has pre~eded him. Cooper is a fast bicycler, has a pole -vault record equal to that of the college, and is a good shot putter. Merri- Jnan is expected to do well in the half mile. Other freslnnen are taking parts in the cross country runs, and tb:e outlook frotn the class is encouraging; the mo1~e so if they take as rnuch interest in track atl1letics next spring as they are now taking in football. It will be seen that we have in embryo, ma- terial that will sup:ply O'Neill's place in the quarter. But Cott(}n in the walk will be sadly missed. He made an enviable record in this game, solely through perseverance ; beginning with a touch of consutnption and ending with fourth place at Mott E-Iaven, no sn1all honor for any athlete. In the approachjag meet many of the events ]ack champions and the men who work best President Rayn1ond left this n1orning for the Tennessee centennial at Nashville. Dr. Ray- mond and the party frotn New York state will go by special train to the exposition, stopping ofr at Lookout mountain and Chattanooga. October 12 vvill be New York Day at the Cen- tennial and the exercises will be presided over by Lieutenant Governor Timothy L. Woodruff. Several prominent men fron1 the state will take part, but the main address of the day will be delivered by Dr. Raytnond. The president expects to be back by Oct. 14 or 15. An Associated Press despatch frotn New York says: The New York state coin missioners to the Tennessee Centennial at Nashville, held a meeting yesterday afternoon and decided upon a program for New r\rork state day, Tuesday, October I 2. The people fro1n New York 'vill go in carriages fro1n the city to the exposition grounds, escorted by the provisional batallion frotn Kings county. The exercises will be in the auditoriun1 building and will include an address by Lieut. Gov. Timothy L. Woodruff, who will also preside. There '\vill be short addresses by Robert R. Hefford of Buffalo ; Hon. Titus Sheard of Herkitner, and Stephen B. Corliss of Albany. The 1nain address will be delivered by Dr. Rayn1ond, president of Union college, Schenectady. Stewart UliQS Out. will probably win tl1eir events. The sprints The final singles in the tennis tournament \'-ere will probably go to Price, the bro<td jump to played off Tuesday afternoon between Hoxie,'98, Davis, the bicycle to Hild, the low hurdles to and C. Stewart, 1900. After a fine series of Captain Sylvester, and the half to Hartnagle; games the championship was won by Mr. Stew- this is all of which we can be fairly certain, an.

6 TI-lE CONOORDIENSIS. THE C·ONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR· BY THE STUDEX'rS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES .J. VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager CARL HA111:MER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JoHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. l3us. Manager. THE gante with Han1Hton showed such a ruarked improven1ent in the team, that the n1e1nbers of the ''scrub'' should asl{ no additional evidence as to their prime utility. '\\Ve hope that this week will be characterized by a larger .and heavier second teain thanever. No other one factor enters more extensively into the ulthuate success. WHILE football is properly attracting so rnuch ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G. c. ROWELL, '99, H. K. \VRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LoUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. V{. PAIGE, 1900, F. R.. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: Co:NCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in Advance · attention, there should also be kept in mind the existence of our track athletics. Those athletic undergraduates who will not or can not play foot- ball, should be getting in so1ne good practice in anticipation of the annual fall meet. This meet always presents a splendid opportunity for new n1en to show of what stuff they are n1ade, to say nothing of the honors to be won for one's class. Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in . Advance. Address all con1n1unications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street,. Schenectady. N.Y. THE attention of every undergraduate is called to the statement of the 1nanager of the musical organizations in another colu1nn of this issue. The matter is of as vital importance to Union's welfare as any department of athletics. LAST Saturday's game while it did not result in the much desired victory was not without its bright features. In fact, the students and the team, the alumni and the friends of the college are to be congratulated; not on the score of four to four, for that was of course, a disappointruent. nut tbey afe to be congratulated upon a splendidly p1ayed ga1ne, and on the spirit that was manifest throughout its progress. The contest was one to delight the soul of Casper vVhitney or any other lover of college sport at its best. The most carp- ing critic could have found no cause for cornplaint. The Ha1nilton team also played an excellent game and won their honors falrly and honorably. They 'veil n1erited the good treatment they received from their friends in Union . FoR the benefit of those who have registered for positions on The Concordiensis and The Par- thenon editorial boards, we will state that the fundamental requisite is proof of ability to work. The fact that a man has secured a place by wor·k in his freshrnan year, by no rr1eans insures hiln a position in his junior year if he ceases his efforts during his sophomore year. This rule has always been in vogue where ath~etics were concerned and shall rule all future literary appointments. If a 1nan, by hard practice, 'n1akes' the football or baseball teal1lS one year, it would be absurd to give hin1 a place on the succeeding team merely because of endeavor in former years. The truth of this should appeal to every student. Further- more, if son1e candidate for editorial honors should prove his excellence and worthiness during his sophomore or junior years, even if he had not previously entered the contest, he will be accorded a fair opportunity. It should not be fo1·gotten, however, that pre- ference shall always be shown those who have entered by regular registration in the freshman year. And the cases of fitness developed later than the sophomore year are so rare, that they should have little or no place in the plans of pro- spective editors. ,/

/ THE OONO·ORDTENSIS. 7 For Editorial <ea9d ida tes. In the first place, the position of editor on a Tb.e political atmosphere of carnpus and university daily serves, as nothing else can do, to .· ~chapel has been decidedly clouded during the ·put a man into touch with eve1·ything that con- past two weeks, and not without reason. ·cerns the welfare of his college, and also brings . All .of the classes have now chosen their hirn into personal contact with Inany who hold · ·positions in its administration. As a consequence, officers for the ensuing year· The seniors held there is cultivated in hin1 a strong and loyal their meeting Monday afternoon in the chapel at interest in ~verything affecting his ahna Inater, · 2 o'clock, and elected officers as foHows: Presi- and a broader view than he can othe1·wise obtain dent, RalfBradford; vice-president, Malcotn G. -of her relation to her students and o1~ganization, Thon1'as; secretary, John·G. Putna 1 n; treasurer, and to the educational wo1·ld in general In the · Frederick W. Closs ; toastmaster, Fred W. Hild; second place, .such a position serves as an invalu- · able aid in enabling one to cultivate a clear and ivy poet, W. L. Fisher; ivy orator, Francis E. ··Concise English style, a priceless possession . 'CuHen ; grand marshal, John P. J\fabon ; pipe .throughout life.-Ex. orator, Walter M. Swann; class orator, \Villiam A rneeting of those 1nen eligib-le to vote for ·captain of the baseball teatn was held Saturday morning, and Warren W. Thatcher, r9oo, was unanitnously elected to that position. Mr. Thatcher pitched all last season on the 'varsity . and was one of the best pitchers Union has ever had. The selection was a fortunate one and a :successful season is assured. At the college 1neeting held last Monday, Leroy T. Bradford, '99, was elected assistant track athletic n1anager. psi tl. DaQG~. A 1nost enjoyable dance -vvas that given by the Psi U.'s in their chapter house la&t Friday even- ing. Gioscia furnished the tnusic, which, as usual, was excellent. Dancing continued until long after tnidnight, when \ Joe \ accompanied those present in some of Union's good old songs. Among those present fro1n out of town were : Misses Beecher and Mrs. Hall of Balston, Miss Anderson of Los Angeles, Cal., Miss H ulty of Brooklyn, Miss Mason ofBaltim.ore, and Messrs. White, Smith and Ganger of Han1ilton college. The· chaperones were Mesdames Price, Truax .and Mosher. D. Reed. The officers of the junior class are : President, William J. S·mith; vice-president, Robert M. Huntley; secretary, F. Roy Chatnpion; treas- urer, Joseph Mark; toastmaster, ]a1nes N. Vander Veer; captain of class football teatn, Havilah Beardsley; n1a nager of football team, Harold J. Hin1nan ; captain of class baseball tea n1, Stephen C. Medbery ; manager of base- ball tearn, E. LeC. Hegeman . The officers of the sophon1ore class are : President, Lester T. Hubbard ; vice president, En1il Winterberg; secretary, C. H. E. Reilly; treasurer, Douglas W. Paige ; toastrnaster, John D. Edwards; football n1anager, Howard P. Dunl1am ; captain of class football tea1n, D. W. Paige; track athletic 1nan~ger, Seward H. French; captain of track team, Frank Miller; assi·stant business manager of the Concordiensis and Parthenon, to succeed as manager in the senior year, G. Ernest Raitt. The officers of the freshn1an class are not supposed to be known to any one except the fresb.tnen thetnselves until after their class ban- quet, bu_t it is supposed the officers elected by the freshmen at their meeting last \'eek are as follows : President, Richard F. Warner ; vice president, Leroy Shelly; secretary, Arthur H. Robinson ; treasurer, Louis C. Kuker ; toast- master, Clayton J. Heermance. Orson Richards of Sandy Hill, visited college friends during the past week.

8 -----ADVERTISEMENTS.------ Hiran1 C. Todd, '97, was the guest Saturday of fraternity friends on the hill. Walter L. Huggins, 'g6, was the guest last week ot his brother, B. E. Huggins,. '99· In place of Mr. Lynes, Instructor W ehster will have the sophotnore class in English history. The class in fi.eld geology went to Little Falls . last Saturday, under the direction of Prof. Chas. ; S. Prosser. J. W. Ayrault, 1901, who has been ill for several days, was rernoved froin his rootn in North college to the city hospital Tuesday after-· noon. The many friends of W. L. Terry, '96, fonner manager of track athletics for the college, will be delighted to hear of his most recent success. Mr. Terry has been elected professor of science . in the Kentucky State. Military institute with the rank of captain. His old associates extend congratulations. Messrs. Phillips and Swan of the New York university were guest of friends on the hill, over Saturday and Sunday. , .,...S. Eln1er Slocurn, '97, has entered Clark uni- · 'V\ersity Worcester, Mass., where he will take a thr~e-year's course in tuathetnatics. v/vVilliam A. Johnston, '97, of Canajoharie, with vVillard J. Stone, of Gloversville, have gone to Ann Arbor university, Mich. Mr. Stone has been at the university for a year, but Mr. Johnston enters this year to take a post- graduate course in 1nedicine. Who is ... C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who hnpo1·ts goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. BOI'HAM, 214 GLIN'lON 81'. Students' Trade Solicited 1 Star~ Restaurant, R. MORRISON. . . . . + 'k>11}' and pteam ~leaning and k)yeing WoiTI\s. MEAL TICKETS Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Specialratesgivento Students. First-cla:ssworkguaranteed. ~21 FOE $3~00.~ Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJF\GOB RINDFLEISGH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 144 So. Centre St., Open until 9 P. M. Work done at sl10rt notice. SCHENECTADY, N. Y ..

-ADVERTISEMENTS.--- N earo lro~y. JOSEPH A. LOCKWOOD, '67. Joseph A. Lockwood of the class of '67 died vecently at Stan1ford in the Catskills. He had been suffering frotn acute tuberculosis for some time and was taken fro1n l1is ho·me at Yonkers in the hope that the mountain air might im- prove his health, but all attempts were useless. Mr. Lockwood was born in Poundridge, Nov. 5, 1847• He graduated at Union in r867, having taken the engineering course. He then went to Yonkers and engaged in engineering work. In r873 he was appointed assistant engineer of the water works and in I 886 became superintendent. He wa.s a director of the Citizen's National bank, trustee of the Yonkers Savings bank, and a 1nember of the First Pres- byterian church, the New England Water Works association, Nepperhan Lodge, F. and A. M., and Hope Hook and Ladder Co. He is survived by a widow and three children. l~Q.5Jf.5J ~ ~ ~{fj]Olllfll(Q)INJ.5J ,/ '~ and other cut flowers constantly on hand. • . •• •••• GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Re:paired. 307 STATE ~STREET. Do You Want ~Gold? Everyone desires to keep informed on Yukon, the Klondyke and Alaska Gold Fields. Send lOc for large compendium of vast information, and big color map, to Hamilton Pub. Co., Indianapolis, Ind. II HIGH GRADE SHOES II - -AT LOWEST FRICES.- W. 8c L. E. CURLEY, '514 1 FULTON ST.' TROY' N. y I Largest Manufacturers in America I I • • I I • of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Iustru1nen.ts and Materials. liB ~-Y.·~-~---··-~-- seN~ * E.!i.QRAVEKJ, * ..---ALBANY, N. Y. E. Lee Hegeman, 19 .M. S. S. C., representing ~ HULBERT BROS. & CO., ,.. ... of New York. DEALERS IN ALL KINDS OF SPORTING GOODS. Students can obtain the best quality at the lowest figure. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St. Grocer.'' Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. 245 State St. p A'I'TON & HALL. Telephone 38. 601~603 UNION STREET.

10 Yates' B·oat House. The largest and best equipped :in the State .. Excel- 'lent Dancing Hall, which canbe rented for Private Parties Only, in con.nection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. COAL---- ···=-•r•••*.,, The ·Celebrated/}. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEEDER B·ROS., No. 424 STATE ST'REET. (Successor to Van B. W'heat0n), ll PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photogra·pblc ·supplies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for p0pular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. G1oscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broadway, ALBANY, N. Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams 1 College, '91 to ,9'T Cornell University, '90 to '96 Govern01·'s Mansion, '94 to '97 2.11~r.IYTEi ~ k)E1fE]'!JPE<Zl\, o- - Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}tL ar}d WeEJB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 300~ 308 and 310 Unien, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St .• and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y,. Wade & Co., FL®RISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LA.NE, L. T. CLUTE,----- H,ATTER AN'D FURRIER. Also, Tr'unks, Bfr.,gs, ~-~uit Cases, G-loves, U!fnbrellas, Cc.nes, Etc. 227 S'f A'T'E 81R:EE'f. At .. THoMAs' MUSIC S:1'QRE [!] w {f) w w [!] No. 15 Nortl:l. Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banj.os and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and M.u~ical goods within 150 miles. The UNION CoL LEG liJ, boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. -- lHOMAS HAS THE BEST. UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 832 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. A.LB.ANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall Str~et, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

THE CON0 1 0RDIENSIS. 11 5ASE. BaLLI ·s:applies, Spalding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Mana.gers sho11ld send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gy1nnasiurn ]Iquipxnents :ttnd Out- fi-ts. Oon1plete Catalog-ue of spring and :Summer Sports free. \ 'rhe Na:rne the . PICKFORD BROS., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH ME'JlTS AND POUI_JTR~. · ~Gan1e in season. 'l'elephone 38-3. Guarantee . \ WI EN C K.E''S-------... r)olllEli GE f{MAN IA AND ~ESJitAUF{ANTit. BILLIARDS, POOL AND 130WLING-. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Libe>rty Sts. BRIAR AMBER AND ' Pipes. MEERSCHAUM THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S CEN'T'RAL PHARMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. A.ND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Ta,ilor. No. 23'1 State St., SCHENECTADY, N.Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. BNI®N eoLLEeE B00 K · .EXeJi}t]'lSE. All College Texts, Draughting 'lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary ::ollege supplies. 602 UNION, COR. BARRE,.rT STS. ---------- Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, E'TC. 53 Sourrn CENTRE ST. \ 'Vholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Conunission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., ••. THE LEADING ... ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A.. G. HERI~ICK. FURNISHED ROOM Warmed and lighted, $1.50 a week; with board, $4.00. Inquire at 114 Nott ·Terrace. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 11 & 19 So. CENTRE STREE'1. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Weeh.

12 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- THE A ONLY. FL·ORISTS i IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Peari St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BE:S''I' AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Intercollegiate Bureau for ·---s gAP~J goWN$ AND HOODS. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRE¥ AND LEONARD, 472-478 Broadway., ------·..-·--- ALBANY, N.Y. S. E. lmf~~ER. ~R., M '. ens . . . Furn·ishing Goods. Sole agent for H_ANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. lfall Jdasl(iot(S aqd JJab,ics READY F'OR YOUR INSPECTION .AT 'JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. fl. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. c. A USTil N ENGRAVING GO., ••• 80 .& 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers,. Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. F. A. VanVranken. F. Van Vranken. VANVRANKEN BROS., IMJ.VOR111ING <9AILO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL S'r., Notman Building. ALBANY N Y . J I I P. F. McBRE'EN R. T. MOIR, ~· ~=====-­ sooKs, FINE 81'AfiONERY, PIC~'f,URE FRAMING, 218 William St., New York Wf\.LL PAPERS, Era. AL':EAJo 8 YPRINTER r~ YJ~Es A R9scs, 8UT FLOWERS FURNISHED AT' 8HOR'f NOJ'IGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENCY .•••• 388 State St., Sclte'lte(Jtady, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR AijL_________... ~ HEAD-TO-FOOT. ALBANY, N.Y. ~SAUL.

T , /~. .'\. ' . ' . . . he d . . . oncor 1ens1s. VoL. XXI. P'UBLIS'HED WEEKLY BY THE S.TUDENTS O·F UNION COLLECE S·CHENECTADY, N. Y. OCTOBER 15, 1897. No. 4.

2 -----ADVERTISEMENTS------ UNION COLLEGE 'G(~ntlemell • • • AltDBEW V, V. ltA'nlOND, D~ D., r..t.. :0., Ereaident, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. :B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and Germ~n. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degreeof B. S.-The modem languages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot. Mathematics .and English studies is increased. .After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading ,to the Degree of Ph. B.-'This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omiS'3ion of Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in. modern languages and science. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to ,give the basis of an Engineering education, including the fundamental ;principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substi,tuting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications,. in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-opeTa.tion with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurgy and Natural History. For catalogue! or for special information address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- structious by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100 ~ perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25 ; dissectin~ fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, .Albany, N'. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. 1t occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean .. ALBANY LA. W SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. .Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue aud informa- tion address DE BA UN VAN .A KEN, Ph. G., Secretary, 222 H~mtlton St. Buy Your 'Shoes at QUI~I'S. 'The largest and n1ost mode1·n Eoot, Shoe and Rabber Emporium in New York State. Q,UIRI'S SHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST., COR ... WALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. !he lineot ligctr6 and the lure6t of Drug~ AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. ~HE •.. €DISON I)OfllEL, ----Schenectady, N.Y. Centt•ally located, attd the Largest and Best Appolnted Hotel t'n the city. Headqua1·ters for Commerct'al Travellers and Tourists CHf\8. BROWN, PROPRIEroR.

The Coll.cordie11sis · VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, OCTOBER 15, 1897. No. 4. Cast Saturday's (iame. A large number of students and Union sym- pathizers went to Albany last Saturday afternoon and witnessed one of the best gam,es ever played on the Ridgfield grounds. Union was lined up against the eleven of the New Jersey Athletic Club. The opponents were n1uch heavier than the local team, but notwithstanding this fact, the game was not at all one-sided or uninterest- ing. The day was a perfect one for football, although a high wind made it uncomfortable for the spectators. The crowd was with Union in sympathy and the vocifero~s cheering of the rooters was augmented tnore than once by the clapping of sn\Iall gloved hands. As in all previous games this season, the contest was absolutely wanting in objectionable features, and the captains of both teams are to be congratulated. Robinson, I 901, played a remarkably spirited game, and if he keeps his present standard up he is destined to be one of the finest light half- backs on the team of any small college. Captain Crichton also displayed more than his usual courage and spirit and handled the team like a veteran. ''Trout\ Bookhout made an excellent showing as in the previous two gatnes. Union was defeated by a score of r6 to 4 but the game was an honor to the garnet. Although the game went in the direction of the wind in the first half which helped to the score of i2 to o, when time was called after the intermission, Union played such football as she has seldom played in years. She made the New J erseyites look well to their laurels. Jersey won the toss and chose the north goal, having the wind at its back. Hoxie kicked off, but the ball went out of bounds and was brought back; Hoxie sent it down the field 35 yards and it was secured by Hollister. On the line- up Whyte was sent through right guard and right tackie for four yards. Couch found a hole between Poole and Thomas and sped down the field, but after running 40 yards Crichton got him. Whyte was sent through the centre for :four yards. C'ouch went through Poole and Thomas fo1· five yards. Whyte hit right centre :for five yards. Houston went between G. Price , and Fenton for five yards and over the line for a touchdown. Whyte kicked the goal. Score- 6-o. Hoxie kicked off for 40 yards, White secured the ball and ran 25 yards through Union's line before he was downed. Couch went through for eight yards. Hayes struck Fenton for two yards. Eat· clay then went around right end. He had good interference and the only man to elude was Hoxie, but the latter was far away and it looked very much as if Barclay would make a sensational long run for a touchdown. But Hoxie skirted across the field and caught him after an exciting run of 40 yards. Then followed some terrific line pounding, before which the collegians gave way inch by inch. Whyte of Jersey was sent again and again with his 170 pounds to hammer out an opening, and Barclay's weight was also a telling force. This continued until the line was crossed, after which Whyte kicked a goal. Score-12-o. Hoxie kicked off again. Shortly afterward Jersey was forced to kick out and Hoxie secured the ball. This was Union's first chance at the ball and her playing elicited n1uch applause. Price, Poole, Crichton and Robinson made suc- cessive gains, bringing the ball well into the Jersey territory when time was called. Shortly after the second half was begun, Jet·sey secured the ball on Poole's fumble and stnashed through the line for a touchdown. Whyte failed on the goal. Score-r 6-o. Hoxie returned the kick-off and the ball was rushed to Union's zo-yd. line. Here Jersey lost the ball

4 THE O:ONC:ORDIENSIS. Nortl] ~olle~e UJeH celosed. oil a forward pass and Union began to show her \ mettle. Union started off well by Robinson skirting . Thursday afternoon, Oct. 7, George Clute the .end for eight yards. A double pass permit- and a force of men removed the pump from ted Weed to bring the ball three yards nearer North college well, as the students naturally Jersey's goal. Robinson went through Couch supposed, for repairs, but it is difficult to for two yards. Crichton hit Houston for four imagine their surprise, when this ·notice was yards. On a double pass P-rice fumbled, but conspiciously posted nearby the · following Smith fell on the pigskin, gaining a yard by it. . morning: UNION UNIVERSITY. Gains by Crichton and an ·end run of r 5 yards by Robinson brought the ball within ·· ENGlNEERIN.G SCHOOL, two yards of Jersey's goal. Here the . great . UNION COLLEGE. struggle of the day occurred. There was a : • :Schenectady, N. Y, Oct. 7, 18117. crash and Crichton was seen to hurl } 1 imself 'The students of North college. are reeom.mended to use the city water in preferen~e to that from against Couch, .gaining a yard. He tried agaill North college w,eJl as the latter is probably in- but only got a foot nearer the object of his rush. ferior to the city water in clearness at lea~t. The supply may be procured front the hydrant ,. One foot remained between Union and a touch- · in the bath roorr1s at present, and Presiden:t Ray- down. It was the third down.. Again Crich- mond is endeavoring to have another conne.ction provided. ton plunged through Couch and Masterson and Respectfully, .went over the line for the first four points. (Signed) MAURICE PERKINS, :M .. D,., OLIN H. LANDRETH. Hoxi.e failed to kick a goal. Score- I 6-4. In a conversation concerning the rriat~er, .Dr. A few tninutes were left for play. Crichton, Price and Robinson each made good gains and the ball was in Jersey territot·y again when time was called. The line-up was as follows: Pe·rkins informed a Concordiensis repres~ntative, that the college authorities consider the city water from the Rotterdam wells so much su- perior to the North college well that ·they had decided to close the latter. The clay ~~diment UNION. N.J. A. C. Weed ................ left end ........... lfasterson Fenton ............. left tackle .............. Couch G. Price ........... right guard ............... Peitz Bookhout ............ centre .................. Cole Thomas ........... right guard .............. Lyons Poole ............. right tackle ........... Houston M. Price ............ right end ............ Hollister Sn1ith ............. quarter back ......... Sintmons Robinson ......... left half baek .......... Barclay Crichton ......... right half ba.ck ........... Hayes Hoxie ............... full back .............. Whyte Referee-umpire-Charles Podvin, Union M. C.; u1npire-referee, W. G. Brown, Union, '95; lines- · 1nen, C. J. Vroon1an, Union, Mr. Cooper, N. J. A. C. ; touchdowns, Houston, Whyte, Barclay and Crichton; goals from touchdowns, Whyte, 2; time of halves, 15 minutes each. Last Sunday night at the East Avenue Pres- . byterian church, C. H. Mattison, '98, tnade a cotnprehensive report of the California conven- tion of the Young People's society of Christian Endeavor held last summer. has caused considerable trouble for sotne time past and recently it has been putnped up .with the water. Dr. Perkins further stated that it was ouly .a question of time when South college.well.would meet the same fate. These two wells have had a wide rep .. utatio.n of being the purest chemically and bacter-io- logically of any .water· in this vicinity. :It was recom,mended by physicians as the best .to ·he obtai·ned, until the Rotterdam wells were opened. The general health of the students .has .. never been better than it is this ye.ar. Heretofore ·.the river water .caused a considerable . atnount of illness among new students, but this year only one case of illness has been reported .and the cause of that could not he· traced to drinking water. The healthy condition of the ,stude.nts and also of the city is attributed directly to . the unsurpassed excellence of the water &up ply. -·

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 5 ff\ii]Or Topies. Wiley, '99, spent Sunday in. Albany. Sheehan, '98, has been iU during the past week. Deyoe, '98, spent Sunday at his hom,e in Bacon HilL Sullivan, '97, renewed old acquaintances on the hill Monday. Bray, '99, has returned frorn recuperating his health in Europe. -A new and handsorne stove has been placed in Dr. Wells' recitation room. The ·senior class in Italian has cotntnenced to read the ''Quore'' of De Amici:s. H. K. Wright, '99, occupies the pulpit of Prospect Hill chapel, every Sunday evening. John S. Bishop, '84, of Lyons, N. Y., spent Tuesday night an1ong fraternity friends. Instructor Lynes' classes had a welcon1e bolt on Wednesday owing to his absence fro1n tovvn. O'Neill, '97, was on the hill Monday. He has tnatriculated at the Albany Medical College. Professor Pro~ser's class in field geology spent last Saturday at Countrytnan's Hill in the Hellier- bergs. Ayrault, 1901, who is suffering frotn typhoid fever at the City Hospital is reported to be im- . proving. Herhert VanBuskirk, N.Y. College of Phar- macy, '96, of Saugerties, visited friends on the hill on 1\!Iondav. J Instructor W. K. Webster met the fresh- man class this week to consider with them their narrative essays. There was a slight explosion of chlorine gas in the chen1ical laboratory last Monday. No one was injured. In Gennany one tnan in 513 goes to college; in the United States one in 2 ,ooo ; and in Eng- land one in 5,ooo. Robert C. Alexander, '8o, editor-in-chief of the New York Mail and Express, was in the city last Thursday. · Professor H. T. Mosher's classes in French have subscribed for L'illustration, a weeklv \' paper printed in Paris. B. T. Wefers lowered the world's record for the 220 yard dash to 21 sec., at the Canadian Athletic association meet held at Toronto. F. Packard Paimer, '97, spent 8everal days with friends on the hill this week. Mr. Paltner contemplates op~ning a real estate office in New York city. The announcetnent of the Fall handicap meet was cro\vded out of this issue. Full accounts of the tneet vvill be published next Friday. ,c·arver~ 1901, who was disabled in football practice iast week is again able to get around. He win probably be in condition in time for the game \Tith Rutgers. '1hre new .apparatus for the gymnasium has been ordered. The walls and floor of the huiiding wHl also be put into shape. With these itnprovetnents the old \gym'' will finally become ., 'up to date.\ Owing to the failure of Syracuse to conform to those conditions of elegibHity required by Union frotn members of her athletic teams, the foot hall gan1e scheduled with that university has been indefinitely postponed. Professor Charles F. Ernerson, professor of physics in Dartn1outh College, visited Cornell last week, for the purpose of exatnining the workings of the pl1ysical department of the university. He has been tnaking a lengthy tour of inspection, including Yale, Union, Williams, Cornell and a nun1 ber of other institutions in this section of the country. The object of his tour was to procure data, on different depart- ments of physics at these colleges and universi- ties, for use in the establishment of a like depart- tnent at Dartn1outh.-Ex. fraterQal ll)itiatiOQS. Several of the fraternities have held their initiations. The 1nen thus far who n1ay be con- gratulated a1~e: Alpha Delta Phi : Chas. P. Wagoner, Albany ; Russell H. Nevins, Statnford, Conn.; James W. Miller, Johnstown ; Thomas F. Leaven- worth, Amsterdam ; and J a1nes W. Cheese- borough, Biltmore, S. C. Delta Phi: George Hackett, Utica; and vVil- liat11 P. Smith, Newark, N.Y. Sigtna Phi: Richard F. Warner., Rochester. Psi Upsilon : Leroy J. Weed, Binghatnton ; Clayton J. Heennance, Hudson; Wilfred D. Hodgson, Binghan1ton; William F. Sheehan, Ti·oy; Neil G. Medbery, BaHston; Porter L. Merrirnan, Albany. Phi Gamtna Delta: A. H. Robinson and R. H. Robinson, Brandon, Vt. ; and Herbert L. Fuller, Waterport. Delta Upsilon: Roy E. Argensinger, Johns- town, Edwin J. Travers, Johnstown, and Homer Strong, Schenectady, from the class of'9S. Phi Delta Theta: Leroy Shelly, Atnsterdatn ; Everett G. Grout, Cooperstown; Harry A. Bar- rett, Albany; and John Ludden, Troy.

THE Q:ONOORDIENSIS. :THE CONCORDIE,NSIS. 'TBE place for every student on Monday morn- . ings frcnn 8:f5 to 9 o'clock is the ·college chapel. To bolt a .college meeting is. to shirk a duty. The ethics of the rnatter are sufficiently w·eU kno·wn to ·PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEA,R. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PooRE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief· CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, · Business Manager CARL HAl\1MER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JoHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. · the upper classmen and should receive from thern a ntore serious regard. :By the freshmen vv.e trust .: the matter will be better understood in the future. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G. c. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. Lours TINNING, 1900, P. L THoMsoN, 1900, D. Vv. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: CoNCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 1@ Cents PARTH~JNON, $1.00 per Year, in Ad vance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. IT is with extren1e gratification that we note the co1·dial treatment extended the college, especially in her under-graduate affairs, by the local and Al- bany press. To many people the press is the only mediu1n throu'gh which a college becomes favora- bly or unfavorably known. \Ve wish to be fair with everyone and fairness is all \\Ve ask in return. Put ·college interests before yo.tr own. A.uoNG the many college and educational nlaga- zines that have come to our desk during the past month, not one has been more welcome or more interesting than the initial nu1uber of New York Eilttcation, published under the rnanagen1ent of Professor C. E. Franklin of Albany. Professor F,ranklin, by the way, is an alumnus of Union, a n1e1nber of old '83. Arnong the 1nany bright features of the number are excellent articles by Doctor Truax and Doctor Hale. Here's wishing all success to the venture! AFTER last Saturday's showing at Albany, the most pessimistic should consider our foot baH pros- pects for the rernainder of the season as 1nost en- couraging. The New Jersey Athletic club, accord- ing to the New York Sun, has a stronger and heavier team than she has had for years. Two of these players are old Union men who are veterans 011 the football field, and yet the score was only 16 to 4. It needs no expert to see, however, that Union's weakness was in he:t.· defensive plays. When she had the ball, she broke the Jersey line ahnost at \rill. But when the opponents secured the ball tllPY could do the san1e with Union's line. Now an excellent rernedy for this is to have a scrub that will attack the 'varsity and n1ake it fight to hold its own. Let the defensive be improved and Union ·will have a stronger and better team than she has bad for years. No finer spirit was ever evidenced by a college ToMORROW Union plays Laureate at Troy and as n1any students as possible should be there to lend assistance in the cheering. The ga1ne is an ilnportant one and those who do not play can do much in assisting those that do. The game is im- portant because it will he closely watched by many teams who have u1et the Laureates in the past or conten1plate doing so in the future, to say eleven than that shown by Captain Crichton's nothing of those scheduled to meet us. During men last Saturday. With the game al1 against the week the defensive work of the team has tllem and Fortune smiling on the opponent, they shown a decided improvement and while it is im· , not only kept down the score, but pushed their possible to foretell the result, that the contest will way through superim· weight almost the lengtll of , be an excellent one is beyond question. the field for a hard-won touch-.down.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 OF .ALL the improvem·ents that have character- n.o place or right to a place within the :college ized the opening of this term, not the least im- ·. fauUy. portant is that of the gymnasium. Owing to the • As bas been truthfully said, ''True college sPirit untiring labors of Professor Pollard, supplemented · is an evidence of a broad mind. Not everyone can by the generosity of a prominent alum nul!, the be an orator nor an athlete, nor a musician, but gymn has been refitted with new apparatus, the everyone can and ought to have an interest in the floors and walls have been renovated and the lock- · · .different lines of college life. Ability to sympathize .ers have been bronght again to a high state of · with all kinds of 'vork and activities should be the efficiency. It rests now with the .students whether . resua o:f a liberal education. or not these desirable conditions continue. Those students who have not yet outgrown the destruc- tive age of childhood should be promptly and .ef- fectually squelched by those who know better. And as for tan1pering with the locker assigned .somebody else, that should not, nor wi1l it be tol- erated for one single second. Such little misde- meanors, even when done in a false spirit of levity, are not in the slightest accord with the present sentiment of the under-graduate body. The students of North college celebrated on '' general principles\ last Tuesday night. About ten o''clock a bonfire was lighted which the elo- quence of Dr. W·ells made brighter. A little later a mattress saturated with oil was lighted, alil.d drawn by students uniforn1ed in nightrobes up Union street and Union avenue and thence THERE is perhaps no organization in college that brings the institution before a critical and re- fined audience so advantageously or disad van- tageonsiy as the 1nusical organization. Nothing appeals 1nore strongly to the pa1·ents of prospec- tive students. Again, there are few 1nore impor- tant influences for refinement and culture of the under-graduate than that of the musical side of college life. In short, our musical interests are vital ones, and should be considered as such. A student who has it within his power to assist the manager of this department to,vards a success- ful season and who does not, for n1inor or selfish reasons~ is as worthy censure as a trained athlete, who, for shnilar reasons, 'vould refuse to play. The fact of the matter is, there is too general a tendency a1nong a certain class of students, to take all that their college gives them and to give noth- ing in return. A college is not a factory or some sort of a financial investment, to be worked for all there is in it. It is literally an; alma 1uater, and the man who would regard his college as anything else, would be liable to forgetfulness in filial duties of another kind. Those men who are constantly putting self before Union, and they are not many, thanh fortune, are good men to avoid. They have back to the catnpus. Dr. Truax and Dr. McKenzie were called on for speeches. Dr. Truax responded by \ivishing that the boys tnight have all their bonfires upon earth.. The North collegians then proceeded to put the South collegians to bed, after which they disbanded. Apropos of college records the University Magazine tells the following at the expense of Eli Perkins, who was graduated fro1n Union though his first two years of college life '\vere spent at Colgate. One day a Colun1bia college tnan called on Eli, and, w bile waiting in the parlor, \vas enter- tained by Ethel, the humorist's little daughter. \Let's see, what college did your father graduate frotn? '' asked the caller. \ I don't ren1en1ber very well,\ said Ethel, '' but I think it was the sophotnore class ! \ Checking his laughter, the caller continued : \What was your papa's class record?\ '~I think it was 6o rods in a n1inute,\ said EtheL-Daily Gazette. :, ·j , I I I ! .·

8 _____..A_DVERTISEMENTS.-------- In the doubles in the tennis tournanment, last Monday afternoon, Hoxie and Yates defeated Sawyer and Van Vlack. The winners later met Paige and Merriman. The fina1 announce- ment of resu.lts will be tnade next week. At a specia:1 n1eeting of the PbHornathean so- . ciety held last Monday afternoon, it was decided to hold the regular meetings of the society thereafter, on W·ednesday evenings at 7 o':c1ock. Aiso contracts were let for re-upholstering the furniture of the hall and the tnakin.g of <Yther im- No Quorum presecyt. The attendance at the usual coUege meeting, Monday tnorning, was so stnall that no attempt was made to transact business and the further consideration of the honor systetn was post- poned for a week. The general sentitnent of those present was that there is no excu~e for the absence of so many fellows fro·m the college . meetings and that everyone should come under any circumstances. The greater part of the hour was occupied by singing and yelling, until such a height of enthusiastn was reached that the entire student body 1narched around the catnpus in lock step, giving vent to their exuber- ance in every itnaginable fonn of noise. 'Who is. e. C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Scheneetady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. provements. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen ot' hundr·ed, caH and get my prices. Also Boiled 1-Iam, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. BO'f:HRM, 214 CL.lN1'0~N 81'. KEELER' g ___ ,., • ..-J • . EUHOPEAN •• HOTEL AH:D REST AURAtiT,, Broadway a.n d Ma.iden. Lane, ALBANY,N.Y. ~ • • QENTLEME.N ONLT. Z50 ~ROOMS •. • . • Ladies Restaurant Atta.ched • . , • • 3 OentTal Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- UNION RESTA:URANT, \ kl:tt:f and pteam eleanin~ and kJ-:{eing W O:ttl\S. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Cor. Centre and Fran:klin Sts. 2l Meals $3. Prompt Service .. Special rates given to Students. First-cla£s work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJACOB RINDFL.EISCH, SHOES tiEATL T REP~Il~f[). • AT THE , , • 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ENTERPltiSE ~ IlEP AIRIN,G A 8HO p ,, Open unti19 P.M. Work done at short notice. 45 SOUTH CENTRE :S'rREEFJ:'.

__...ADVERTISEMENTS.- 9 A :Qlost interest~ing g0lf. match was . held last . • Saturday between the College Hill and·General . Electric golf clubs. Tbe players and their .scores were ... as follows : COLL~G.E· ;HI~L. Pildaiu.... . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Romering ............ 13 Hale .• ~· • . .. • . . . . .. . . ... • . _;5 Robinson. . . . . . . . . . . . :O Bennett ............. 0 Lovejoy ............. 0 .GENERAL EL:EOTiRIC. Williams ............ 0 Bishop .............. 0 E. Conover .......... 0 .J. Conover. . . . . . . . . . 9 Erben ............... 11 Green ................. 4 514· FULTO:N ST., TROY, N •. y. Largest lannfactnrers in lme·rica. I I I • I • • of Engtnee:rs' and Snrv~yors' · Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Iustrutnents and Materials. 23 24 · gH ~-~-~-~-----~---seN~ ::From the time the .first pair finished until almost the last it seemed almost certain that the College .. Hill club would win. Before the last pair finished, the score :Stood 23 to .zo in favor c;>f College Hill. When the :last pair were mak- ' ing the last hole they were so close that it nee.ded but one drive to tie .or a successfal drive by the oppo11ent . to win. Th.e General Electric tnan was successful and won out in the face of immi- nent defeat. - . ' . l~q~f~ ~ ~t1ll~~dll~~IMI~ and other cut flowers ~ constantly on hand. • • . • 'a GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rent~d and R~palred. . 307 STA..TE ST:REET. Do You Want Gold? Everyone desires .to keep informed on Yukon, the Klondyke and Ala.ska Gold Fields. Send lOc for large compen<tiu:m of vast inf()rlllation,and big color map, to Ham.iltion Pub. ()o,, Indianapolis, Ind. .. HlGH GRADE SHOES II ----AT LO\V:EST PBICES. - * B!$iKAV·EKJ, * ..---A.LBAN-Y, N. Y. E. Lee Hegeman, 19 M. S. S. C., representing • HULBERT BROS. & CO .• of New York. .DEALERS IN ALL KINDS OF SPORTING GOODS. Students can obtain the best quality Q.t .the lowest figure. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union .St. Grooer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral W:~ters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crac.kers . il41LSta.te.st. PAT_TO!l & .BALL. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET. ... 1' I) \ I . ' ·. \ I l •,; { ~

10 ....,...._.._.A_DVERTlSEMEN'l'S. = Yates' Boat House. The largest and best equipped in the. State. 'E:x:Gel- :· lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private , _Parties Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. COA L------••••••,,-- The ~Celebrated D·. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEEDER .B·ROS .. , No. 424 STATE STREET. ]A. }\.. S€JR.j\FF0f\B, (Successor to Van E. Wheaton), A PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cam·eras and 'Photouraphic SuppUes. .STUDIO, J A. Y STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for p0:pular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GrosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. AL:BANY, N.Y. 4:96 Broadway, ·Telephone 4:82 .. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, ''ilO to '-96 Governor's Mansion,. '94 to '97 13.1!1\rf'YTE ~ klEVE]\!Ftlel(, a- Wholesale and Betail Dealers in .... €0}\L aiJd WeeB 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock St •. Schenectady, N. ¥. Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers. Wade & Co., FL0RISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MA.IDEN LANE, L. T .. CLUTE,---- :HATTER AiND :FUR;RJ.~ER~ • .. I ~ i' .A..Zso, T'l\lllnks Bag8, ,Suit Cases, GZoves., Vmb'l'ellas, Oa'ltes, Etc. 227 S'f:A~E 8'f,REE1'. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE ·~ ·® w. $. [!] No. 15 N<nth :Pearl St., A.l.EANY,. :N.Y. I You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zitne-rs. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical go(!lds within 150 -miles'. 'J.ihe UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a .dis. count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANO&. ~--THOMAS HAS lliE BEST. UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS. BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions. etc. Ice Crea111 and Ices constantly on band. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 wau Street~ SCHEKECTADY, N. Y.

THE CONC,ORDIENSIS. 11 ..... ·.·· . . it · .. 1 DASE BHLL. Supplies, Spalding Leag~e Eall, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for samples and ,special rates. E'very requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gyu1nasium Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Summer .Sports free. ''The Name the G- t ,., · uaran ee. A ·G SPA· :L·.OING ·& B· R:O. S New York,, Chicago, . 1 1 · , • • . · • , Ph1la. . WIENC·KE'S-----~ QOJJ.1EL GE~MANIA AND ~ESTilAU~ANfll. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTAJrY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. BRIAR, AMBER AND :MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GEN'rRRL PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor. No. 23'1 Stat~ St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWA.BD H. FRENCH. l:fNI®N eOLLEeE Bt80K EXeJiJ\N6E. PICKF·O:RD BRO:S., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH :MEATS AND POULTRY. ~Game in season. Telephone 38---3. 602 UNION., COR. BA.RRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, p:QULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS .A.ND CLA.MS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Con1mission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECT.ADY CLOTHING CO., ..• THE LEADING ••• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Edison Hotel Building. A.. G. HERRICK. The Arlington Hat Co., 308 State 1.fiit., S.cheneetady, N\. :Y. MANVFAGI'URER8 OF Hf\1'8. Hats Cleaned a.nd Repaired. Wholesale and Retail. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, ProJJ. , 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. All College Texts, Draughting lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary :ollege suppl'ies. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 ------ADVERTISEMEN.TS.---- IN ALBANY ~Tho· own· their·own··Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WMITTLE BROS .. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10' No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance 'fetephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Intercollegiate Bureau tor auicz- aAP~, &·()Wtl~ A'HD HOOD:S. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialt-y. COTTRELL AND LEONARD, 472-478 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. 9. ~. l.Wl~~~EN, -a-·N., Men's . . . Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for H~t\.NAN & SON MEN'·S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. .ALBANY, N. Y. •.t • • '' • •· ••••• .... , ........ -. •• • -- --· -AooOoooOOo_o .. O --- • ·o•O • •o o• _, ••. •- - o0• 0 A+•' ·--- 00 _.oOO~ - 0 Jlall· Jias~i·otts aqd JJab~ics READ'!' F0ft YOUR INSPECTION AT JO.HNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. fl. C. P.V~:;o~s~~a~::~~~..:~:·N;y; Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. Collegework a Specialty. F. A'. Van Vranken. F. VanVranken. VAN VRANKEN BROS., lMF>O~JiliNG @AILO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL S'r., Notman Building. ALBANY, N. Y. P.F.McBREEN R. T. M'OIR, ~---~~ ~~~ · =======.____,_ BOOKS, FINE 81'A1'10NERY, PlG1'URE FRAMING, 218 William St.,. New York A·L::Av:v PRINTER WALL PAPERS, E'T'c. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ••••• 833 .state St., Scheneda,dy, N~ Y READY FOR FALL GUI' FLOWERS FURNISH ED AI' 8HOR1' tiOfiGE. . CLOTHING FOR ALL~~ HEAD-TO- FOO.T. ' Shipped ·io ainy part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. ALB~ NY, N. Y. ~SAUL.

The Concordiensis. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY ,BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE ., ~CHENECTAOV, N. Y. OCTOBER 22, 1897. .. No. 5.

2 -----ADVERTISEMENTS - UNION COLLEGE ANDBIW V. V. iA.Y:trtON'D., D~ D., LL. D.,,l'reaident. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY,N. Y. 1. Course Leacling to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Clal!!sical Course, including French and German. .After t;opho• more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S.-'\The modern la.nguages are substituted for the ancient and the amount ot. Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a. large list ·of ·electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Pb. B .. __:This : differs from the A. B. course chiefly in the omission of Greek and the ~mbstitution therefor of additi@nal work in modern languages and science . .4:. General Course Leadin,g to the Degree of B. E~_, ' This course is intended to give, the basis of an Engineering eduea.tion, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession., a. knowledge of botb· French and German, and a full course in English. I 5. Sanf,tary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in suastituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering; I studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Elee- trieity and its ap-plications, in place ef some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with th\ Edison General Electric Company. . 7. Graduate Cour&e in Engineering Leading to the..· Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to ~raduatea of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallur~ and Natural History. For catalogues or for special informat10n address BENJ A.MIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, K. T. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Alban,- Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly gr~ded course. In- struetions by lectures. recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and ope1·ations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- :Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissectin\' fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Re~::istrar, .Albany, Jl. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department is located at Albany. near the State Capitol. It occnpies a building wholly deToted to its use. The oourse is one yea.r, divided into' two semesters. Expenses.-1Yiatriculation Fee, $10'; Tuition fee, $100. For catalog~es or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO,. Dean • .ALBANY LA.W SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercise• held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture terJil. commence• Monday, Oct. 5. :F<>r catalogue and informa- tia addreae DE BA.UN VAN .AKEN, Ph. G., 8eeretary, =Hamilton St. Gentleme11 • • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The la1·gest and most modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York .State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 STATE ST., COR. WALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ .BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe .ine~t ~iga;r~ and the lure6t o~ 1Jrug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. (9HE ... €DISON r)OrrtEU, ---Schenectady, N. Y. Ce1tt1'ally located, a1zd the Largest and Best Appolnted Hotel t\n tke clty. Headquartet's for Comtnercial Travellers and Tourists GHAS. BROWN. PROPRIETOR,

The Co11cordie11sis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, OCTOBER 22, 1897. No. 5. AT REST. Out ·of respect to the memory of Dr. Foster, all college work, with the exception of ·chapel exercises, was omitted on Wednesday and Professor John Foster Passes Peace-·· Thursday. The Hag over ;memorial hall was fully Away in Boston. placed at half mast and the portrait of Dr. Foster in the chapel was draped in mourning. A telegrat'h frotn Easton received in this city. John Foster was born August 1 8, 1 8 1 \, in the last Tuesday at noon announced the death of village of Hebron, Washington county, New Professor John Foster. For a number of years ' . York. His father was a sturdy farm·er of ·.Scotch-Irish descent, and from hitn were re- ceived the strong will and rnethodical habits for which the illustrious son was afterward distin- guished. After a happy childhood, he attended he had been in deciine but the tidings were un- expected. He had passed the four-score 1nile- stone and the angel of Death was not unwel- come. Dr. Foster's health had been failing for the last nine months but he was still vigorous. About five weeks ago, in company with Mrs. Foster, he went to Boston and took lodgings there. On 1\1onday he was seized \vith an at- tack of .acute pneumonia and was removed to the hospital. All possible care was taken but it availed nothing and on Tuesday morning it was apparent that the end was near. About I I o'clock in the morning he passed peacefully away. Telegrams were .at once sent to this city and a letter of instructions followed. Wednesday, meetings were held of the students, faculty and Sigma Phi fraternity to tnake arrangements. The body reached this city at 10 :32 Wednesday evening, and was n1et at the station by the Sig- ma Phi fraternity and a students' committee as follows: '98, Bradford, Fisher, Little, Ham-· mer, Reed, French.; '99, Hegeman, Sawyer,· Wiley, Vander Veer ; 1900, Brownell, Dunham, Raitt, Thompson, Tinning; 190I, Cooper, Cletnents, Golden, McNab and Bennett. The remains were escorted to the college chapel, where they were placed until morning, attended by watchers from among the students. In. the morning they were taken to the First Presbyterian church where the last sad rites were conducted. · the district school of Hebron, assisting mean-. w bile in the work about the farm. When he reached the age of I 7 he felt that the time was come when he must look tor a higher and more complete education than was afforded by the district school. But his father's means were not sufficient to send him to college, and it became apparent that he must depend upon hitnself. Accordingly he taught in the district schools of Argyle and Salem during the winters of 1828-3 r, devoting the summers to the study of Gt·eek and Latin under the Rev. ]a1nes Irvine. In the . spring of 183 I, young Foster went to the academy at Fairfield, Herkimer county, study- ing there until September, 1832, when he be- catne a teacher in that institution. His prepa- ration had been so thorough that he was enabled to enter the senior class at Union in the fall of I 834· He was a men1.ber of the Sigma Phi fra- ternity and is said to have been a general favorite. He graduated with honors in I835 and was elected to the Phi Betta Kappa society. He hnmediately resumed teaching at the academy, remaining there a year. In 1836 Union summoned hhn to a tutorship and he willingly accepted. At that time the sophomore and freshmen were quartered in the old West college and they were placed under his supervision. He resigned this position in I

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS .. 1837 to become superintendent of the Albany • ·Boys' academy. But in 1838 Union gave hhn '. the degree of A. M., and recalled him to teach . . mathematics, Latin and Greek. His connection:· The Laureates of Troy defeated the Union \:ith Union remained uninterrupted for .fi:ll:y- :' College foot ball team at Troy, Saturday after- nme years. From 1839 to 184 9 he was assist- ': noon, Oct. 16, by a score of 16 to o. The day ant professor of mathematics and natural philos- : was far too warm . for good football and took ophy • In 1842 he gave a course of lectures in the snap out of the players. The Laureates astronomy, leveling and surveying, and from: averaged several pounds heavier than the colle.ge this course started the school of engineering. ·. tea~ and their ends were superior in skill. Meanwhile he lectured on mechanics and WJote Umon played a good steady game, but were an . \ Elementary Treatise on Electricity, Mag- . weak in defensive work. Yet this weakness netlsm, Galvanism, Electro-Magnetism ancl Ac- does not seem to be beyond repair. coustics.'' In 1849 he became professor of nat- Captain Crichton, Price and Smith did the ural philosophy. best work for Union. McChesney of the Lau- In 1867 Dr. Foster visited Europe, spending reates played a fine game and made a beautiful his time principally at the universities ofHeidei- dash of 95 yards. Baxter and Murphy also berg, Boan, Zurich and Munich, and at Paris. played a strong game for the boatmen. On his r~tum he devoted himself to building up ,. ~wenty and fifteen minut~ ha~ves were played. the phystcallaboratory and collected over $5 ,ooo Umon ~on the toss. Rankm ktcked off, caught from the alumni for that purpose. In 1 s 74 he by H~xte, who advanced it 20 yards. Crichton was sent to Europe by the trustees, authorized took 1t around the end for fiye yards, and re- to spend $6,ooo for apparatus. This he selected peated for another five yards. Hoxie went with great care in London and Paris, with the through the centre for four yards. result that Union had for a time the finest collec- Morton Price and Smith could not advance tion in the country. The same year the Univer- it, so Hoxie kicked 30 yards. Evers of Lau- si~y of the City of New York conferred upon reate caught it and advanced 20 yards. Hunter htm the degree of LL.D. fumbled and the ball was found by Crichton. I~ 1884the infirmities of old age began to un- .. Union also fumbled and the boatmen again got fit htm for active work and, at his own request · the ball. It was pushed to the centre and Ev.ers he was retired. About a year and a half ago' punted. Crichton caught and Union adv.anced his house on the college grounds beyond Cap: . 30 yards and lost on a fumble. The ball went tain Jack's garden took fire in the night and was . out of bounds at Laureates I 5 yard line. McChes· partially demolished. Through the coatribu· aey made a 25 yard dash. Cleary and Kober tions of the alumni, the house has been rebuilt · followed with I 5 yards each. Baxter was pushed and is nearly ready for occupancy. o,ver for a touchdown. Rankin kicked goal. Dr· Foster was twice tnarried. · His first wife, Score, 6 to o. ~ho died many years ago, was Miss Lyrn~n, of Only fifteen seconds were left .. The ball was Schenectady. By her he had two daughters, . taken to the centre of the field, hme was called who both died befme him. After the death of\ and the score remained 6 too. his first wife he married Miss Van Bodge, of In the second half Hoxie kicked off. Evers Newton, whowasa teacher in the public schools caught but f~mbled and Union took the ball of Schenectady. She brought him no children only to lose tt on downs. Laureates worked and alone surYives him. ' their halves and tackles, and assisted by two pretty A full ~ccount of the services will appear in runs by Mc~he~ne~, succeeded in sending Bax- the next tssue. ter over Umon s hne for another touchdown. Rankin made the goal. Score, r 2 to o. The Adelphic Literary society held a business meeting Thursday, October I5· Hoxie kicked off. Evers caught again and McChesney made his beautiful sprint of 95

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 5 S~rub, o ; \. l· l., o. yards and a touchdown. Rankin attempted a · goal but Evers put the ball in play too soon and ; Captain O:i:chton fell on it, thus blocking the The two hundred people that sawtbe game kick. Score, 16 too. at Fort Plain last Saturday, witnesse-d a very · Hoxie kicked off. Rankin caught and lost pretty contest. The Union tean1, Nb1ch was to Union. Again Union lost the ball on downs. composed chiefly of sophomores, 'WVaS pitted Evers punted 25 yards. Union advanced 15 against the C. L. I. team. The two tea~ms were yards and lost once more on downs. Evers evenly matched in weight, but the scru:b's inter- kicked again. Thi~; time Union advanced to ference was constantly being broken !Joy Crissy, Laureates 10 yard line before losing to Lau- who played right half for C. L. I. and who reate on downs. Evers punted. Union worked · played tackle on the 'Varsity last year 17or a sho.rt hard but lost again on downs. time. Barton, C. L. I.'s left ta.:kle, who It was up hill for the Union player.s but they played on the Boston Athletic Association's worked like veterans.. Laureate again secured team last year, was also an important factor in the ball and Evers kicked. The ball was G. L. I.'s gains. f ' caught by Hoxie and then time was called. But notwithstanding these two veterans, to Score,. 16 too. The line up was as follows: whom may be added Grosvenor, Arnl:!erst, '97• UNION. LAUREATE. the right end on the Fort Plain team,. the scrub Barrett, Weed ....... left end ............... Cleary had a little the better of the argument. Fenton ............. left tackle ...... Baxter (Capt.) The game was called at 3 :35, and the scrub Bookhout .......... left guard ............. Johnson having won the toss had the advan·tage of the G. Price .............. centre ............. Maullasso wind. Thatcher kicked off and C. L. I.'s left Thomas.········· .right guard············· .Jones half was downed before he had gone .fiye yards. Poole ............. right tackle ............ Hunter,- · M d . ht d { Kober, Murphy By good team play the ball was then advanced esmar · · · · · · · · · · · ·rig en · · · and Lane · fifteen yards only to be lost on a fum ole. Crichton(Capt.) .. righthalfback ............ Cook The scrub then show:ed its prac\ti..ce andby M. Price.········ .left half back····· .McChesney . good interference pushed the ball steadily for- Smith ............. quarter back ........... Rankin db t h 1 th d r. C L I ' H · war u w en on y ree yar s Horn · . · • . s oxie ................ full back ............... Evers Touchdowns-Baxter 2 , McChesney l. Goals · goal the ball was lost on a fumble. The ball from touchdowns-Rankin 2. Umpire-Referee- then alternated back and fortp until time was M. F. Fleming, L. B. C. Referee-Umpire-Prof. called. In the second half the C. L. ]. reached Pollard, Union. Linesmen-Charles Knight, L. B. C., and George Foote, Union, '99. . the scrub's fifteen yard line, but were held on downs and the ball was carried on t of danger. Bl]e FrateriJitY ElemeQt. At Ann Arbor the proportion of students who are members of fraternities is 24 per cent.; at Cornell, 33 per cent.; Lehigh, 42 per cent.; University of Virginia, 48 per cent. ; Johns Hopkins, 46 per cent. ; Union, 64 per cent. ; Stevens Institute of Technology, 30 per cent. ; Wisconsin, 22 per cent. ; University of Pennsy 1- vania, 41 per cent. ; Kenyon, 50 per cent. ; Chicago, 24 per cent. ; Wesleyan, 70 per cent. ; . California, 14 per cent. ; An1herst, 8o per cent. ; · Minnesota, 23 per cent.- U. of M. .Daily. The game was ably refereed by z. L. Myers, Union, '96. The line-up was as follo-ws: UNION 2ND. C. L. I. Strong ............... left end ........... :Mock.ford Thatcher ........... left tackle ....... - ..... Barton Tuggey, Hild ....... left gL1ard ....... _ .. ~ ... Shultz Closs .................. centre ......... _ . . .... Skeels Miller .............. right guard ........ On derwood Beardsley .......... right tackle ........ L. Leonard French .............. right end ......... , . Grosvenor Pruyn ............. quarter back ..... - ...... \Pellett Nevins ............ left half back ............. Armor Paige (Capt.) ..... right half back ........... Crissey Parsons .............. full baclt ...... Parks (Ca. pt.) Referee-Umpire-Z. L. Myers, Unio:a, '96. Um- pire-Referee, C. Hollis. Linesmen,. S. E. Read, Union, 1900,. and R. S.White, C. L. l. Time of halves, 20 and 15 minutes.

6 THE' CONOORD1ENSIS. fall }1aQdieap f{\eet. 2 2o-yard hurdle---Won by Sylvester, '99, ( s.) ; znd, Closs, '98, (4 yds.) ; 3rd, Wright, '99, (s). ' T'in1e, 29 3· 5 sec. The annual faH handicap games of the coHege 'Two-rnile bicycle-Won by w. B. Davis., were held on Friday, October 15. The weather , 99 , (So yds.); znd, Sinclair, ' 9 8, (so yds.); conditions were perfect for the meet and doubt- · · 31'd, Huntley, '99, (zo yds). Thne, 5 ,min. 21 less had something to do with some of the very .... ! 4--5 :sec. Haif-n1ile run-Won by Wright, '99, (s.); excellent perforrnances. ·· As had been :expected the freshrnen were out · zmd, Merriman, I90I, (20 yds.); 3t~, Hart- in full force and captured a large share of the day's honors. From the dash, which opened, nagle, '98, (s ). Time, 2 n1in. 9 sec. Mi 1 le walk-Won by Hegeman, '99, ( s.) ; to the broad jutnp, which closed the gatnes, they captured firsts and seconds with an ease that argues wen for the strength of next spring's team. The high hurdling and pole vaulting of Weed were features; his style is .graceful and powerful and he captured both the .events. Merriman gave quite a surprise when he beat out from the 20 yd. tnark the college crack, Hartnagle, who see:ms not to have arrived at his form since returning to college. Heermance won the mile bicycle in excellent form, riding the distance with good judgment. In the two tnBe, Davis, '99, outdid his com- petitors from the 50 yds. mark. He is a new champion in this event and we shall hope to hear tnore of hitn in it. Herran, r9or, proved his ability as a sprinter, capturing the dash from the one yard mark, after losing a yard by false starting. Of the old timers, Captain Sylvester, Closs, :fiegeman, McMillan, Price and Deyoe showed good form and captured firsts. Following is the summary: Hundred-yard dash-Won by Hen·an, 1901, (2 yds.) ; second, Weed, I go I, ( 2 yds.) ; third, Price, '99, (s). Time, I 1 r-5 sec. Mile bicycle (scratch race)- Won by Hevr- ' mance, 1901; 2nd, F. R. Davis, 1900; 3rd, Huntley, '99· 'Time, 2 min. 28 sec. 1 zo-yard hul'dle- .... Won by Weed, 1901, ( s.) ; 2nd, Sylvester, '99, (s.); 3rd, Closs, '98, (s). Time, I 7 3-5 sec. 22o-yard dash-Won by Price, '99, ( s.) ; znd, Closs, '98, { 4 yds). Time, 25 3-5 sec. . Mile run-Exhibition by Wright, '99· Time, 5 min. 20 1-5 sec. 440-yard dash-Won by Herran, 1901, (s.); 2nd, Closs, '98, ( 15 yds). Time, 58 sec. znd, McMillan, '98, (35 sec). Time, 9 min. z,r sec. Putting :r6lh. shot-Won by McMillan, '98, (s.}; :2nd, Hoxie, '98, (1 ft.) ; 3rd, Vrooman, '98, (r ft). Distance, 33 ft. 7 r-2 in. :Po1evault-Won by Weed, 1901, (s.); 2nd, Hodgson, 1901 ; 3rd, Cooper, I90I. Height, 9ft. Running broad jump-Won by Hamtnond, (Med.) ; 2nd, Weed, 1901. Distance, 16 ft. . II tn. Throwing 16lb. hammer-Won by McMillan, '98, (s.); znd Hatnmond, Med.; 3rd, Vroon1an, ~98. Distance, 87 ft. 10 in. Running high jump-Won by Deyoe, '98, (s.) ;. 2nd, Davis, 1900, (z in.); 3rd, Weed, 1901, (2 in). Height, 5 ft. 1-2 in. The board of editors of the '99 Garnet are using every effort to make the publication a credit to the institution which it represents. It will appear this year in a new and enlarged fon1.11 and contain many new and distinctive features. The art editor, Mr. A. B. Lawrence, wishes to call the attention of all the students, but par- ticularly those of the freshman class, to the need of illustrations for this work. Any freshman who has any artistic ability would confer a great favor on the board by conferring with the art editor, and any efforts in this line will be thoroughly appreciated . Paige, 1900, has been elected captain of the Observatory 'Cross-country club.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 New York day at the Tennessee centennial exposition now being held in Nashville was celebrated Oct. 13, ,with appropriate exerci:ses. 1 President Raymond was the orator of the day and the Nashville press pronounce his effort as one of the tnost eloquent ever delivered on a like . occas1on. The celebration began with a parade led by the officers of the New York troops mounted. Next followed the cotnpany of the New York state guard and these in turn were followed by a troop of United States cavalry. Then cam.e the carriages containing Gov. Taylor, of Ten- nessee, Lieut. Gov. Woodruff, Chancellor Kirk- land, Dr. Raymond, and other distinguished New York and Nashville citizens. There were almost 3000 people in the audi- torium on the exposition grounds when the exercises were begun. Governor Taylor opened the meeting with an address of welcotne and called upon Lieut. Gov. Woodruff as the first speaker. The Lieutenant Governors speech was an especially happy one. Chancellor Kirk- land. then delivered a brief address, and then Doctor Raymond was introduced. The oration, while a lo~g one, was of absorbing interest from beginning to end. An attempt to convey an idea of the effort as a whole by any brief abstract would be wholly useless. After the usual complitnentary preface, Presi- dent Raymond said: \The secret of American o-reatne&s is found not alone nor chiefly in the b boundless mate1·ial resources of this Western world, but is written large in the masterful spirit of the men who came hither to subdue and transform. * * * * The v~igorous qualities of their splendid manhood have come down through the years, conquering and still to con- quer. * * * * We see the spirit that knows no fear; the enterprise that leads resistlessly forward ; the strength that wins, and, winning, holds; the quick intelligence that seizes oppor- tunities and meets emergencies; the patience that achieves ; the faith that triumphs. * * * If the Southern cause was lost· Southet·n chivalry and sacrifice were not. The issues that marshalled opposing armies are settled forever, and the ar·mies are gone, but that which. abides is the spirit that counts not the cost of devotion, the spirit that is the very life of the· new nation charged with a mighty destiny. • '* * * About us are the ·evidences, not of a new North nor of a new South, hut of a new statehood where North and South have met in. truer union ; type of the new nation that joins the spirit of North and South as never before and receives the equal devotion of all her valiant sons.\ * * * * \Brothers of Tennessee, after a hundred years your mission begins anew, and all about us are prophetic voices. The influences that have moulded your history and made you great are with you stil[ and urging onward to larger triumphs. Your future is written in your past, . in the devotion of valiant souls, in the vigor of cultured n1inds, in the faith of Christian hearts. To the nation you have given strength and glory. rro the nation you are still to give of your own abounding life. As in fraternal greet- ing we join hands today, let it also be the hand- . ·clasp of a fraternal covenant, that in vvord and deed, in spirit and life, we will together con- serve the nation's future; that this regenerated republic shall know no more constraining, up- building, inspiring influences than those th~t spring fron1 the loyal hearts of New York and Tennessee.\ Says the Nashville Amer-ican, \Dt-. Ray- tnond's address was a magnificent effort and at frequent intervals he was interrupted by the hearty applause with which the audience greeted his sentiments. At the conclusion of his speech he was the recipient of ·many warm :congratulations from . gentlemen on the plat- form.\ The essence of knowledge is having it, to apply it; not having it, to confess your ignor- ance.-Confucius. · The rule for every man is, not to depend on the education which other tnen prepat·e for hitn -not even to consent to it; but to strive to see things as they are, and to be himself as he is. Defeat lies in self-surrender.- Woodrow Wilson. ,, I, ' ,, ~ ''

8 THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE 'CONCORDIEN,SIS. the ultimate solution of the uegro question. How- ever this may be, such displays as that at Nash- PUaLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THK COLLEGE YEAR. ]3y THE STtrDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. . ville point to the physical independenee of the race. And this, for all t:L1nes, has been the natural predecessor of moral and :mental independence, both in public and private life. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Edi~tor-in-Chief CHARLES J, VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager • CARL HAMMER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JOHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. 'l'. BRADFORD, '99, G. C. RowELL, '99, H. K. W:a.IGllT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. W. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: CONCORDIENSIS, - $2t00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - - - - - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in Advance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in .Advance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street. Schenectady, N.Y. THE college has every reason to be proud of the showing made by her athletes at the Fall han- dicap meet last Friday afternoon, although it is to be lamented that the number of men in the various events was so small. In spite of the fact that . many of the contestants had spent more time in playing football than in practice on the track, the measurements generally showed an improvement over those of previous years. With plenty of practice and determination there can be no doubt as to the outcome of the association meet next spring. PRESIDENT RAYMOND made a brief but highly - interesting report of his Tennessee trip in the chapel last Wednesday morning. Especially inter- esting was his reference to the growth of indus- trial education among the colored population of the south, as evidenced by the excellent display of Afro-American handiwork at the exposition. It is believed by many thinkers on American sociological problems that industrialism will prove AFTER a long life spen~t !i:n high accomplishment there has passed away one .of Union's most famous ;sons. He was not wen known to the, younger generation. :But in the hearts of the old alumni, the name of Professor Foster will never cease to live until they too journ~y to the great beyond. Tbat b.rilliant intellectua.l eou.rt of Doctor Nott is almost. ;gone. Isiaah Price, Jonathan Pearson, Isaac ,Jackson, Laurens Hickok, Elias Peissner, Taylor Lewis, all are with their chief on the other shore. And in that court, Rone held more exalted place, when at the zenitll of his powers, than he who last has joined thea . Restrained from college activities for ruore than a decade by the heavy ba.nd of advancing years, no doubt it was a glad JD:~ment that brought him the relea.se-that summ.()ned him to the coutpan- ionships of long ago. IT is a very dark cloud indeed that can lay no claim to the proverbial silver lining. While the 'Varsity was playing a heroic but losing game against the superior weignt of Laureate last Sat- urday afternoon, the second team was doing splen- didly in holding the Clinton Liberal institute to a score of 0 to 0. And while the 'Varsity was not so fortunate, its playing evid.eneed in no small degree the excellent work done l>y the scrub in the pre- ceeding week's practiee. rrhe team is still weak in its defensive, however, a.nd the efforts or the scrub to abate this fault should be unceasing. Fumbling can be rectified only by praetice and resolution on the part ()f the individual players. Fumbles are being made in every game, even by the best of teams, so but little blame can be at- tached to the player making them. At the same time it shouid never be· forgotten that one fumble can not only offset the \best tactics of the captain but can also lose the game. The time to fight this evil is not when lined up against sorne other col- lege, but when lined Ull gainst the scrub.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. Union has again been so unfortunate as to temporarily suffer from misrepresentation in the Albany Argus. It is generally conceded, how- ever, that the managetnent of the organ in · question is to blam·e only in the retention on its staff of some person believed to be morally or · mentally irresponsible. That the Argus itself wishes to act fairly is evidenced by the pub- lication of the following self-explanatory letter in their issue of the I 2th inst : Editor of The Argus.-On behalf of the ath- letic advisory hoard of Union College I should be glad for an opportunity to make a few state- ments with regard to certain allegations which appeared in an article headed \Questionable Tactics\ in The Argus of Friday, October 15. The article in question, will you allow me to say, must certainly have been based upon in- formation that was partly erroneous and partly inadequate. The natural inference which a reader of the article would make would be that the management of the football team, or at all events certain persons connected with that management, have acted with unfairness and actual deceit in permitting persons to play on the team who had no right to be associated with it in any way. Such implied unfairness and deceit I desire to repudiate' positively and at once. The athletic board of Union College, representing the alumni, the faculty and its students, and having ultimate and final authority and control over all the athletic affairs of the college, would be the first to denounce any trickery or intentional unfairness of any kind on the part of any person who assumed to represent the college in any way. The article in question makes two definite charges against the Union football management. The first charge reads as follows: \The specta- tors at the Union-New Jersey Athletic club game last Saturday were surprised to find Price, the Ridgefield centre, playing with the collegians, and more so when it was claimed that he was a bona fide student of the Medical college. It was well known that Price never attended the Medi- cal college, and the staten1ent was received with doubts. An investigation proved that Price is enrolled as a student .at the Medical college,. but does not attend. Someone paid $5 to the regist~rar and Price was given a m·atricula- tion card, which permits him to atten.d several lectures during the year.\ On investigating this matter, 1 find the follow- ing to be the facts: Mr. Price states positively that he registered in good faith as a student of the Medi·cal college,. and that he paid his tnatric- ulation fee himself. He acknowledges that he . has not as yet attended lectures, but states that this has been due to certain personal matters that have prevented him, up to this time, from attending the lectures. The Medical college opened on September 28th. About a week after that time Mr. Price's n1atriculation card was presented to tne, as chair- man of the executive committee of the athletic board, as evidence of his being a. student in the Medical college. I accepted this evidence tem- porarily, there being no further evidence ob- tainable at that time from the Medical college, as that institution does not give further papers until the end of the term. The registrar of the Medical college jnforms me that it is quite possible for a student to matriculate, be absent three or four weeks, and then begin his work. The Medical college has now been in session for about three weeks. Now, Mr. Price states that he entered the college in good faith, paid his own matriculation fee, and also explains his absence from lectures. There is no reason to question his statements, and all of the evidence in the case sustains our position in accepting him at the time as a student of the medical de- partment of the University. In addition to all this, each of the mem hers of the Union football tnanagement denies all knowledge of arty effort to play a non-collegian. It would seem, therefore, that there is insuf- ficient evidence upon which to publish this accusation, and that the Union football manage- ment should be exonerated therefrom. The second statement in the article under dis- cussion reads as follows : ''Yesterday two other

10 TRE. CONCORDIENSIS. Ridgefield players received letters from Union, . asking them to play on the college team this year. · They would receive matriculation cards from the : Medical college, also monthly tickets on the New . York Central so that they could .go up to Sche- · nectady daily and practice, also their supper · each day. They not even go to sch9ol, etc., etc.\ In regard to this, I find the following to be the . facts: The Argus reporter himself told me, on · Saturday last, that he was mistaken about one of these letters. He said that the Ridgefield play- ers referred to had been approached not by letter but personally, by a member of the Union team, and that, therefore, he (the reporter) had no . evidence to prove either his assertion or that the , alleged member of the team alleged to have ap- proached this Ridgefield player, had any au- thority to n1ake any such proposition. . As to the second letter, the reporter stated to me last Saturday that this had been received by · Mr. W. A. Taylor, a member of the Ridgefield Athletic club. Mr. Taylor has today informed · me that he has received no letter of any kind · whatever from the Union football management ; and that he had told the reporter who wrote the · article, that he (Mr. Taylor) had never received ·any such article. Investigation, then, shows that there is not the slightest evidence to sustain this second charge. As to the statement regarding railroad ex- penses and suppers, I can only say, that it is, and always has been, and will continue to be our practice to pay all legitimate expenses of the students in our university who give up their time and energy to the athletic interests of the university. For this we make no apology what- ever. Very respectfully yours, H. T. MOSHER. Faculty Mem her and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Athletic Advisory Board of Union College. Union College, Schenectady, ·October 18, '97. E. E. Kriegsman, '76, is the Democratic can- didate for county treasurer of Schenectady . county. The main need of Union £or many years has been adequate, modern building8.. We have been hampered considerably by this lack and no --4-. extra energy of facnlty or students has been able - to compensate for it. Particularly is this true in regard to the Engi·neering depart~ent. The recitation roo.ms of this department have been scattered throughout different buildings, and the valuable collection of models and instrument.s which the engineering schoo] possesses has been improperly cared for sin1ply because there bas been no fitting place for keeping them. The college has some very fine material for equipping a good engineering building and deserve one for the thorough work it has done along this line. Schenectady is well situated for an engineer- ing school. The location here of the General Electric works, acknowledged the best electric plant in the country if not the world, furnishes ample opportunity to1· practical work in elec- tricity, while the Schenectady Locomotive works holds a high rank in the railroad world. Then too, the railroads passing through here, and the Erie canal, which may some day be a ship canal, afford opportunities for studying the application of engineering to commercial life. The college grounds are so :commodious that new buildings can have almost any desirable situation. Power is easily and cheaply ob- tained. The library of the college .contains many valuable volumes on the various branches of engineering and is well supplied with the older and standard works which so many schools lack. For surveying and topographical work the college grounds and the country sur- rounding them possess as much value as any similar location. Prof. Landreth has worked faithfully and well in building up this department and should have hearty support from. students, faculty and all who are interested in the :success of Union. We sincerely hope tl1at the engineering school may be hindred no longer in its progress by an inefficient equipment in buildings and shops. The \greaser\ is the man that becomes the master. _I

./ J .. '' \ THE OONOORDIENSIS. 11 fT\irJor Topies. The Septe:mber number of \Accountics a Sheehan, 1901, spent Sunday at his home in --business 1nagazine, contains an excellent half- ; Troy. tone portrait of Col. Charles E. Sprague, '6o, , W. J. Kline, '72, editor of the Amsterdam president of the Institute of accounts and of the .Democrat, was on College hill last Tuesday. Half-back Sullivan; of Harvard's team, is the Union Din1e Savings bank, of New York. A uncle of Cochrane, the team's quarter-back. well-written. biographical sketch accompanies On account of Professor Mosher's absence, the article, from which we take the following: Monday morning, his classes received a \bolt.\ In Col. Sprague's mental endowm,ent there is Baseball practice has begun in many colleges a rare combination. He has great talent for and will continue as long as the weather per- mathe~matics, and is an enthusiast in linguistic mits. pursuits,. When at college he acqui~ed a know I- Quite a congregation of students saw the edge of Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, German 'Varsity off on their western trip last Tuesday and Spanish, and since his graduation has con- night. tinued the study of those languages. He was C. S. Daley, '97, has matriculated in the law the first student of Volapuk in this country, and department of the lJniversity of the City of New is the author of the standard American text- . York. book of Volapuk. The mathen1atical side of Professor Truax will confer with students his character has 1n·anifested itself particularly registet·ed for honors in his department, next in his accomplishment as an accountant, includ- ' Tuesday evening. ing his analytical investigations into the princi- Professor Bennett and E. C. Angle,'86, made pies of accounts. The system of accounting · a bicycle trip to Williamstown and back last used in the Union Din1e Savings bank is the . · Friday and Saturday. evolution of his mind, and is one of the most · The leader of the glee club, Mr. F. C. Me- comprehensive and efficient systems to be found Mahon, is giving instruction in vocal music at anywhere. In conn~ction with his bank work , the city Y. M. C. A. he has served as consulting accountant in a very . Owing to Professor Pollard's absence from considerable number of large operations, and in the city, the Physiology class recited on Tuesday this rega.td has a most enviable experience. instead of Wednesday. Colonel Sprague was one of the charter mem- The members of the ~A B fraternity gave a bers of the Institute of Accounts. He is one of very enjoyable dance at their house, 404 Union the State Examiners of Public Accountants. street, last Friday evening. * * * * The social side of Colonel Sprague's life is · prominently shown by membership in the Loyal Legion, in the Grand Army of the Republic and in several other organizations. At the pres- ent time he is Colonel and Assistant Paymaster- General ofthe State ofNew York. Saturday the football team will meet Syracuse university at Syracuse. Next Saturday they will meet Rutgers on the Ridgefield grounds at Albany. Fisher, '98, is assisting Prof. Prosser in mak- ing a geological map of the country lying between Schenectady and Amsterdam. The hall of the Philomathean society has been handsomely refitted. The first evening session of the society was held last Wednesday night. Lord Kelvin, the eminent British scientist, is making a visit among the leading colleges of this country. Lord Kelvin attended the late meeting in Toronto of the society for the advancement of science, and last year ·celebrated his 5oth anniversary as Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburg.

12 ADVERTISEMENTS.-- Charles Emory Smith, ''6r, editor of the Phila .. ;, The classical Latin division, 1901, have peti- delphia Press and ex-minister to Russia, has , tioned Professor Ashmore to change the hour of been elected a m'eilnber of the Union League .· recitation from 2:30 to 12 o'clock, in order to club of New York. give time for football practice. A large number :of students from Union wit- ·: At the college meeting la:st Monday morning, nessed the game in Albany last Saturday, in · it was decided to petition the faculty for a recess which Lehigh defeated Williams. On the Le- : on the ~on day preceding election day. This ~gh team was a brother of·Canfield, '97: . : recess would be necessary for 1nany students V Fred. B. H. Howell, '92, was marned last wishing to go home to vote. · week to Miss Carrie Fur beck of this city. The ceremony was performed by the Rev,. Philip H. ' Cole,'88, formerly assistant professor of English. The Albany board of education has favorably considered a committee report recommending , the appointment of Mr. Horatio N. Pollock, '95, as assistant in physics to Prof. Onderdonk, in the high school, at $r ,ooo salary. Mrs. E. Josephine Daggett, late of Rchenec- tady, whose will was recently admitted to pro- bate, bequeathed Union college $x,ooo, the income of which is to be known as the Daggett prize and is to be awarded each commencement to the student who has maintained the best moral deportment. \Who is .•• C. GOETZ?. The only Tailor in Schenectady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE TREK. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, ~offee and Milk. e. E. B01'HAM, 214 GLINTQ!N ST. KEELE R'S ______ ..,.,. ......... J • • EUROPEAN I • HOTEL Alii) RESTAUR~HT, Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY,N.Y. ~, • • QENTLEMEN ONL T. 250 ROOMS. • • , Ladies Restaurant Attached ••• • • 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- ~. : UNION RESTAURANT, 'Dl'Y and ~beam eieanin~ and Dyein~ WoP~s. Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-class work guaranteed. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Goods called for and deltvered free of charge. c:JAGOB RINDFLEISGH, ••• AT THE ••• .5nOE5 tlf!ATL T REPAIRED 1K Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . ENT'ERPRISE A REPAIRING A SHOP, Open until9 P. :ll. Work done.at short notice. 45 SOUTH CENTRE STREET.

-ADVERTISEMENTS . ....._· - 13 At the faculty meeting on Oct. 14, two peti- tions were received from the undergraduates asking for a decrease in work. One was from the scientiHc, latin scientific and classical divi- sions of the junior class, and the other was signed by members of the classical division of · the sophomore class. Both petitions were re- ferred to the committee on education and they will report their recommendations at the next 1neeting of the faculty. Prof. Prosser has gone to Sharon Springs on work for the New York State Geological Sem- inary. On Saturday he will meet his class in field geology at Howe's Cave, where the rocks of the upper Silurian formations are found. The class has already this term studied the exposures of the Comb ian at Troy, the Archean and lower Silurian at Little Falls and Hoffmans, and the upper Silurian and Devonian in the Helderbergs at New Sale1n. In connection with these field trips the geology of the Mohawk valley and the Helderberg plateau is being :carefully worked out and two articles by Prof. Pro&ser and his students are in course of publication as a part of the report of the State Geologist.- Dally Unlon. D(Q)~~~ -~ ~~IR{~~TR(Q)INl~ ~~ ~--·--·'\= ==- \-.. and other cut flowers constantly on hand. . • •• . ana GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. Do You Want Gold? Everyone desires to. keep informed on Yukon, the Klondyke and Alaska Gold Fields. Send lOc for large compendium of vast information, and big color map, to Hamilton Pub. Co., Indianapolis, In(l, .. HIGH GRADE SHOES II ----AT LOWEST PRICES.- - W. tc L •. E. CURLEY, 5t 4 ~FULTON ST., TROY, N. Y .• Largest lanuracturers in America I I •• • •• . of Engineers' and: Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruments and Materials. ~tfAYLE & St3N, u. ·-•••••••••••••••••••••u••••••oo••••••••huo••u-u \\\' \ * E!iQRAVEKJ, * ..-.--ALBANY, N. Y. E. Lee Hegeman, 19 M.S. S. C., representing • HULBERT BROS. & CO., • of New York. DEALERS IN ALL KINDS OF SPORTING GOODS. Students can obtain the best quality at the lowE:'st figure. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St. ,Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers • 245 State st. PATTON & HALL. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.

14 -ADVERTISEMENTS.--- Yates' Boat House. The largest and best equipped in the State. Excel- · lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N .. Y. COAL MMS@HW rr.,.. The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VE·EDER BROS., No. 424 STATE STREET. L. T. CLUTE,----- HATT~ER AND FURRIER. Also., T'l'unks, Bags, liuit (Jases, Gloves, TPmbreUas, Oanes, Etc. 227 S1'A\T'E 8T'REE1. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton.), ., At .. [!] {jJ {j) {f) (j; A PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Supplies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at t.be Studio for popular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GrosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broadway, .ALBANY, N .. Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 l'3JI1\f.('YTE rc k):EftE]'[FE~l\, a- Wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL aQd W00B Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St •• Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, I 306., 308 and 310 Union, and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N.Y. Wade & Co., FL0R.ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, THo.MAs' Music SToRE 1!1 No. 15 North Pearl St., ALEANY, :IS .• Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mand0lins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, :Picks and :Musical goods within 150 miles. The UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIAN OS. ~----THOMAS KAS THE BEST. UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIE.S. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. :Dobermann,, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall Street, SCHEMECT.A.DY, N. Y.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. .15 I DASE. Bf.ILL I Supplies. Spalding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Mana.gers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equiptnents and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Summer Sports free. '' The N arne the Guarantee.\ , PICKFORD BROS., Union Market DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEA.TS AND POULTRY. · ~~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. A. G. SPALDING,& BROS., NewY~~ii~icago, WIENCKE'S------ QorrtEu (~E~MANIA AND ~ESJilAU~ANlll. BILLIARDS, PoOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. • BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GENTRAL PHARMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON D.A VIS, Merchant TailoT. No. 28'1 State St., SOH.ENECT.A..DY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. BNI®N eoLLEBE B00K EXe}-I}lNBE. All College Texts, Draughting lns1ru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils . and all necessary :ollege supplies. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, OY:STERS AND CLAMS, 102 :So. CENTRE ST. Commission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits . ~SCHENECTADY C10TIIING ,CO., • • • THE LEADING . • • ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURt-USHERS. 3!5 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Edison Hotel Duilding. A. G. HERRICK, The Arlington Hat Co., 808 State !'it., Scheneetady, N. Y. MANUFAGfVRER8 OF HATS. Hats Cleaned and Repaired. Wholesale and Retail. Morton House, THOMA.S VROOMAN, Prop. , 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

16 --- ADVERTISEMENTS .......... - - THEA ONLY A FLO'RI'STS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS ... ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Te1ephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Intercollegiate Bureau. ror --.. e.APS, GOWNS AND HOODS. · Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL AND LEONARD, 4't2-478 Broadway, . .ALBANY, N. Y. S. E. Nlt~~~R! -()Ft., Men's . . . . Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. Jiall Jlas~ioqs a'ld Jlttbfits READY FOR YOUR INSPECTION AT JOHNS·ON'S, 'THE Po·PULAR TAILOR. fl. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. c. f\ USTI N ENGRAVING co., ••• 80 & 82 State S.t., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. F. A. VanVranken. F. VanVranken. ·Vf\N VRRNKEN BROS., lMPORJiliNG <9AILORS, 48 NoRTH PEA.RL 8'r., Notman Building. ll L B a to.J y N Y n n ., , 1 1 P. F. McBREEN 218 William St., New York R. T. MOIR, §\-~====­ sooKs, FINE 8~A'fiONERY, PIG'T'URE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, E1\a. AL:EAAYDY 8 PRINTER E.lRES • RgSES, GUT FLOWERS FURNISHED AI' SHORT NOTIGE~ 'Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., A.LBANY, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENCY. • . •• 888 Stat~ St., Schenecta,dy, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL---. HEAD-TO- FOOT. f\~BF\NY, N. Y. ~SAUL.

The Concordiensis. - VoL. XXI. PUBL,ISHED WEEKLY BY THE STU:DENTS OF UNION COLLECE SqHENECTADY, N. Y. OCTOBER 29, 1 897. No. 6. MEMORIAL NUMBER.

2 -ADVERTISEMENTS- UNION COLLEGE ANDBZW V. V.lU.!MOND, :0. D., Lt.. D., President., UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. l. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Sopho- moro year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Deg1•eeof B. S.-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient a:rad the amount ol Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a lar~e list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to tlte Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the .A. B. course chiefly in the omisc;;ion of Greek and the BUbstitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and science. · 4:. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- ; This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering education, includin.g the fundamental prin:ciples of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, &nd a. full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting. special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. :Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course -4: in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineerh1g Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to ~ra.duates of · Course ~' 5 or 6. There are also special courses in .Analytical Chemistry, :Metallur~ .and Nat ural History. For catalogues or for speeial informatiOn address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MED:ICINE. Albany Hedical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- struetiou!l by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100 : perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25 ; dissectin\ fee, $10; laboratory courf.le, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. 'l 1 UCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, 1T. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sehool.-This department is located at Albany~ ne~r the State Capitol .. It occnpies a .b1lildin(r wholly deyotea. to 1ts use. The oourse IS one year, diVIded mto two a em esters. Expenses.~Matriculation Fee, $10; ·Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercise• held in .Albany Medical College. Annual le()ture term commence• Honday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- iion address DB B.A. UN VAN AKEN, Ph. G., ~eeretary, %22 Hamllton St. Gentleme11 • • • Buy Yonr Shoes at :QUI~I'S. The larg·est and most modern Boot, Sl1oe and Rubber Ernporium in New York State. QlJIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311.STATE ST., COR. WALL,, ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ BONBONS -.AND- CHQCQLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the lure~t oft lrug~ AT :LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <§HE ... €DISON l)OTDEL, .._.._.-Schenectady, N. Y. C~ntrally locatea, and tke Largest and B1st .Appo,-nted Hotel in the city. Headqt1a·rters for Commerct'al Travellers and Touri1t1 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIEfO.R, 1 v Th~ 1 L: the c SUffi city~ and one ters T in t nigl and esco cha1 nigl frat€ grac v cha] wer can that wil1 eulc \ whc gen mo! . pat~ gre: No' WOl day wa: tuti pet an< tio:

The Coil•,cordiel(sis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, OCTOBER 29, 1897. No. 6. IN MEMORIAM. The Mortal Remains of Doctor F;oster Laid at Rest. Tributes Rendered. Last week it was our sad duty to !Chronicle the death of Professor John Foster. Tbe events surrounding the retnoval of the remains to this city, their reception at the station by students and faculty and their final disposition, complete one of the most impressive and affecting chap- ters in the history of the college. The train bearing the dead professor arrived in this city at ro: 30 o'clock last Wednesday night. It was met at the station by students and faculty, who a little later formed a silent escort as the pall was carried to the college chapel. Here it lay in state throughout the night, guarded by members of the Sigma Phi fraternity and an honorary cotnmittee of under- graduates. When the bell slowly tolled the b()ur for chapel exercises the next n1orning, £ew there were who did not respond. No greatel:' tribute can ever be paid the memory of Doct()r Foster than that reverential gathering ofstudents. Nor will there ev·er be forgotten by those present the eulogy then delivered by President Ra. yrnond : \Before us this 1norning lies the body of one who was known and respected and loved by generations of Union college students,. :and it is most fitting that in this place a tribute should be paid to his memory. He was the last of the great teachers who under the presidency of Dt. Nott gave Union a national reputation, and I would that some one intimate with him in the days of his prime when his strong personality was an important factor in the life of the insti- tution, were here to speak, as I can not, from personal knowledge, of those qualities of mind and heart which gave him a commanding posi- tion for more than half a century. John Foster was born in Hebron, Washing- ton Co., N.Y., August x8, r8I r, and was pre- pared for college at the Acadetny in Fairfield, N. Y., which at that time was one of the great preparatory schools of the country. While a · student at Fairfield his ability was recognized and he was employed to teach mathen1atics. In I 834 he entered the Junior class in Union College and quickly showed the characteristics which distinguished all his subsequent life in this in- stitution. Inheriting from Scotch-Irish ancestors · a strong physique and positive virtues he threw himself into his undergraduate work with an energy and zeal that commanded the attentibn of the authorities so that, altnost imtnediately after his graduation in 1835, he was appointed a tutor in his Alma Mater-a signal honor then as now. After only three years of service in this capacity, he was 1nade assistant Professor of mathematics and natural philosophy, and ten years later was placed at the head of the depart- ment of natural philosophy, a position which he filled with exceptional ability until nearly forty years later he was made professor emeritus, re- tiring from active work upon half salary as a special mark of appreciation of his long and abundant services to the college. This brief recital of the main facts of Dr. Foster's life gives but little idea of his influence as an educator, or of the important contribution which he made to the narne and fame of Union. In his special department he was a recognized authority, and prepared a t~xt-book on electricity when that science was yet in its infancy. In 1874 he was sent abroad by the trustees and com- missioned to spend several thousand dollars con- tributed by the alumni, in the purchase of physical apparatus. He was absent, I think, two years, during which ti tne he supervised the construction of instruments in Paris ; and when he returned he brought back with him a collec- tion of physical appliances which it has been

4 THE CONCORDIEN'SIS. said was without a rival at that titne in this three such beloved professors serving conte·mpo- country. It is an interesting fact that when two · · raneously as Lewis, Jackson and Foster, and years ago the discovery of the Roentgen ray now that the last of this triumvirate has passed created a detnand for Crook's tubes, some of the away, many of Union's sons wHl feel that for leading institutions in America were without . them· the glory of the college has departed. them, while a complete set was to be found in Dr. Foster's strength did not appear alone in our own laboratory, having been purchased the c~lass room and in his personal relations with twenty years before by Professor Foster. students, he was an aggressive force in aU As a teacher, Dr. Foster was exact and college affairs. His keen Judgment of men exacting. As one of his associates has said., made his services valuable in selecting new ''He disturbed the indolent but gained their tnernbets of the faculty, and for years this seemed gratitude.\ His ability as a disciplinarian was to be a part of his work. He would make long early recognized, and in the days when the journeys to interview those who were regarded students were separated, the lower classes living as protnising candidates for some vacant posi- in West College situated between the· canal tion, and his recommendations were generally and what is still known as College street, he was · accepted. In still other ways, apart altogether placed in charge of the West dormitory-always fro1n his teaching office, he served his Alma a turbulent place-and our older alumni never Mater conscientiously and efficiently. He visited weary of telling of the success with which he academies and preparatory schools to present discharged his difficult trust. But his austerity · the claims of higher education, so that many a was never of the kind that repelled. To an un- youth received frorn hitn his first inspiration for usual degree he won the confidence and sincere · a college couvse. He early became interested affection of his students. No one who knows in the cause of ten1perance and responded to calls our college alumni can doubt this. Wherever I for special addresses upon this important sub- have met them, almost their first inquiry has ject. 'l'he strength of his vigorous n1anhood been concerning \dear old Jack Foster,\ as they was given to every good cause, and in this way lovingly called hitn, and tnany a tender story he imp1·essed himself upon the life of many have I heard of his sympathy and kindness. communities, and used his gifts for the general Rarely has an old graduate visited the college in weal. recent years without turning his steps first of all Scarcely less dear to hitn than the college was to Professor Foster's house, there to renew the church in which for tnany years he fulfilled delightful n1emories and pay his grateful tribute. the office of ruling elder. The duties of this When I was president of the General Alumni office cat·ried him to synods and assemblies, association and had charge of the annual meet- where he took no unitnportant part in shaping ing in this room during commencement week,· the policy and furthering the welfare of the great I knew that the entrance of Dr. Foster would denomination to which he belonged by descent be the signal for a burst of applause, and that and by strong personal conviction. the proceedings would be interrupted for a time And now this long and active life has come by the crowding of his old students about him for to a close. Before us lies all that ren1ains on a hand-clasp and a greeting. The secret of his earth of the teacher, administrator, counsellor hold upon the affections of men was to be found and friend. We, who knew him ·so slightly . in his wann personal interest. In their under- during the years of his retirement, cannot appre- graduate days, he showed by many little atten- ciate all that he was and all that he did in the tions that he cared for then1 and sought their years of his vigor. If, however, our places good, and after they went out from the \old were taken this tnorning by the students of long gray walls\ he did not forget them. While ago who sat at his feet and caught his spirit, they live they will treasure his memory. It is this place would be filled by a great company not every college that has been blessed with who would in gratitude and love thank God for the gon } and the1 chu se, on one I Ste Fo! ser· . pn Ste gle hyl no1 fac ta~ ter pic sp1 vel St~ ev . ffi] of U1 to tu au pl pl al tb tb . ltl C<

4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. said was without a rival at that titne in this country. It is an interesting fact that wll:en two years ago the discovery of the Roentgen ray created a de1nand for Crook's :tubes, son1e of the leading institutions in America were without thern, while a complete set was to be found in our own laboratory, having been purchased twenty years before by Professor Foster. As a teacher, Dr. Foster was exact and exacting. As one of his associates has said, ''He disturbed the indolent but gained their gratitude.\ His ability as a disciplinarian was early recognized, and in the days when the students were separated, the lower classes living in West College situated between the· canal and what is still known as College street, he was placed in charge of the West donnitory-always a turbulent place-and our older alumni never weary of telling of the success with which he discharged his difficult trust. :But his austerity was never of the kind that repelled. To an un- usual degree he won the confidence and sincere affection of his students. No one who knows our college alumni can doubt this. Wherever I have met them, almost their first inquiry has been concerning \dear old Jack Foster,\ as they lovingly called hi1n, and 1nany a tender story have I heard of his sympathy and kindness. Rarely has an old graduate visited the college in recent years without turning his steps first of all to Professor Foster's house, there to renew delightful n1e1nories and pay his grateful tribute. When I was president of the General Alumni association and had charge of the annual meet- ing in this room during commencement week,· I knew that the entrance of Dr. Foster would be the signal for a burst of applause, and that the proceedings would be interrupted for a time by the crowding of his old students about him for a hand-clasp and a greeting. The secret of his hold upon the affections of men was to be found . in his wann personal interest. In their under- graduate days, he showed by many little atten- tions that he cared for then1 and sought their .good, and after they went out from the \old gray walls\ he did not forget them. While they live they will treasure his memory. It is not every college that has been blessed with three such beloved professors serving contempo- raneously as Lewis,, Jackson and Foster, and now that the last of this triumvirate has passed away, many of Union's sons will feel that for them the glory of the -college has departed. Dr. Foster's strength did not appear alone in the class room and in hi:s personal relations with students, he was an aggressive force in all college affairs. His keen judgment of men made his services valuable in selecting new tnem hers of the faculty, and for years this seemed to be a part of his work. He would make long journeys to interview those who were regarded as protnising candidates for som.e vacant posi- tion,. artd his recommendations were generally accepted. In still other ways, apart altogether fro1n his teaching office, he served his Alma Mater conscientiously and efficiently. He visited academies and preparatory schools to present the claims of higher education, so that many a youth received frorn hitn his first inspiration for a college course. He early became interested in the cause of tentperance and responded to calls for special addresses upon this important sub- ject. The strength of his vigorous manhood was given to every good cause, and in this way he in1pressed himself upon the life of many communities, and used his gifts for the general weal. Scarcely less dear to hitn than the college was the church in which for tnany years he fulfilled the office of ruling eider. The duties of this office carried him to synods and assemblies, where he took no unhnportant part in shaping the policy and furthering the welfare of the great denomination to which he belonged by descent and by strong personal conviction. And now this long and active life has come to a close. Before us lies all that retnains on earth of the teacher, administrator, counsellor and friend. We, who knew him ·so slightly during the years of hi:s retirement, cannot appre- ciate all that he was and all that he did in the years of his vigor. If, however, our places were taken this 1norning by the students of long ago who sat at his feet and caught his spirit, this place would be £lied by a great company who would in gratitude and love thank God for the got an< the ch1 Se· on onj Stc Fo set I pr: St~ glt hy no fa< ta] te1 pll sp ve St ev m of u to ttl at p~ p. al tl tl • 1t c~ d n h

THE OONCORDIENSIS. 5 the life that has finished its earthly course and · gone b> an eternal rewa.rd. scholarship, whereby he rendered distinguished service to the cause of sound education during the long period of his. active career as a teacher, THE LAS'f :S.AD RIT:ES. . and now holds the abiding esteetn and gratitude At 1 :3p Thursday afternoon the entire faculty : of a. widely scattered host of alutnni once his and student body gathered at the chapel, and : puptls ; then proceeded to tbe First Presbyterian Resolved, Th~t th~ sytnpathy of the £acuity church where the servi:ces were held at 2 :Jo. b~ extended to hts wtdow,. and t~ all t? vyhom . . . . .· . · .. . lus death means the sundenng of ties of tnt! mate Several apptopnate floral emblems were placed . companionship; on the casket, conspicuous among them being • Resolved, That, as a further n 1 ark of respect, one frotn the students. all college exercises be suspended until after the Pres.ident Raymond and Rev. J. RusseH . funeral, and that the faculty attend the funeral in Stephenson, pastor of the church of which Dr. a body; Foster had been a ruling elder, conducted the Resolv~d, That these resolutions be inscribed services D. R . . d . d 1 . · on the tntnutes, that the secretary send a copy to ••. • • 1 • ayrnon' rea . severa appto- the family of the deceased, and that a copy be ptl<'lte selections from _the Sen ptures and Mr. · furnished to the college paper and the local press Stevenson followed w1th prayer. The college for publication. glee club were present and rendered several hymns, after which the benediction was pro- nounced by Dr. Raymond. After the services t11e retnains accompanied by faculty, students, relatives and friends were taken to their final resting place in Vale ceme- tery. The interment was made in the college plot, in a n1ost beautiful place beneath tl1e spreading elms and overlooking the lake. At the place of interment Dr. Raytnond spoke very briefly and was followed in prayer by Mr. Stevenson, this ending tbe services. FACULTY \RESOLUTIONS. At a meeting of the faculty held Thursday evening the following 1·esolutions were adopted : Whereas, Death has just taken from our midst, John Foster, LL.D., emeritus professor of natural philosoph-v, who was identified with 0 nion college for more than 60 years, from 1835 to the present time, in the several capacities of tutor, assistant professor of natural philosophy and mathematics, N ott professor of natural philosophy, and etnel'itus professor of natural philosophy ; Resolved, That in the ren1oval of our vener- able colleague there is stricken frotn its place at the head of the roll of the Faculty the name of the last of the active co-workers with Dr. Nott in the establishing of the early fame of the college; Resolved, That the rnembers of this Faculty desire to pay a deserved tribute of respect to the memory of their recent colleague for his ability, his zeal, and his devotion to a high idea of OBSEQ.,UIES IN BOSTON. Judge John W. McKinn, '44, of Boston, in a letter to Prof. Isaac W. Dunham, '46, of this city. writes : ''As soon as I heard of his sick- ness, I hastened to the hospital. But he was too far gone to recognize ·me. We had services here, at the room of his friend, Mr. Talbot. Several graduates of Old Union assembled there and gazed with affection upon the features of that grand old n1an. Two Episcopal clergy- men, graduates of Union, and fonner pupils of Prof. Foster, read our beautiful funeral service, and another clergyman of our church was also present, who had graduated at Union, and was a friend of Mr. and Mrs. Foster. Near the casket sat Hon. Charles A. Phelps of the class of r841, and myself of 1844-probably the two oldest graduates in this state, and another gradu- ate of U11ion. Mr. Codwise had charge of the funeral. It was a very sad and sorrowful little band of friends that drew together that n1orning to pay the last tribute of respect and affection to the memory of one whom none of us will ever forget.\ In the obituary column of the Boston Journal of Oct. 20, appeared the folllowing : The vene1·able and beloved Dr. John Foster, for half a century one of the instructors at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., died on Tuesday at the City hospital. He had been passing a

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 5 the life that has finished its ·earthly course and . gone to an eternal reward. THE LAST SAD R:rTES. At 1 :30 Thursday afternoon the entire faculty : and student body gathered at the ·chapel, and : then proceeded to the First Presbyterian· church where the services were held at 2 :go. Several appropriate floral ·emblems were placed on the casket, conspicuous amoRg them being one fro1n the students. President Raymond and Rev. J. Russell Stephenson, pastor of the church of which Dr. Foster had been a ruling elder, conducted the services. Dr. Raymond read several appro- priate selections from the Scriptures and Mr. Stevenson followed with prayer. The college glee club were present and rendered several hymns, after which the benediction was pro- nounced by Dr. Raytnond. After the services the retnains accompanied by faculty, students, relatives and friends were taken to their final resting place in Vale ceme- tery. The interment was made in the college plot, in a n1ost beautiful place beneath the spreading elms and overlooking the lake. At the place of interment Dr. Raytnond spoke very briefly and was followed in prayer by Mr. Stevenson, this ending the services. FACULTY RESOLUTIONS. At a meeting of the faculty held Thursday evening the following resolutions were adopted : Whereas, Death has just taken from our midst, John Foster, LL. D., emeritus professor of natural philosophy, who was identified with union college for more than 6o years, from 1835 to the present time, in the several capacities of tutor, assistant professor of natural philosophy and mathematics, Nott professor of natural philosophy, and etneritus professor of natural , philosophy; Resolved, That in the ren1oval of our vener- able colleague there is stric~en frotn its place at the head of the roll of the Faculty the name of the last of the active co-workers with Dr. Nott in the establishing of the eady fame of the college; Resolved, That the members of this Faculty desire to pay a deserved tribute of respect to the memory of their recent colleague for his ability, his zeal, and his devotion to a high idea of scholarship, whereby he rendered distinguished service to the cause of sound education during the long period of his active career as a teacher, and now holds the abiding esteetn and gratitude of a widely scattered host of alutnni once his pupils; Resolved, That the sytnpathy of the faculty be extended to his widow, and to all to whom his death means the sundering of ties of intimate companionship ; Resolved, That, as a further n1ark of respect, all college exercises be suspended until after the funeral, and that the faculty attend the funeral in a body; Resolved, That these resolutions be inscribed on the tninutes, that the secretary send a copy to the family of the deceased, and that a copy be furnished to the college paper and the local press for publication. OBSEQ_UIES IN BOSTON. Judge John W. McKinn, '44, of Boston, in a letter to Prof. Isaac W. Dunham, '46, of this city. writes: ''As soon as I heard of his sick- ness, I hastened to the hospital. But he was too far gone to recognize me. We had services here, at the room of his friend, Mr. Talbot. Several graduates of Old Union assembled there and gazed with affection upon the features of that grand old n1an. Two Episcopal clergy- men, graduates of Union, and fonner pupils of Prof. Foster, read our beautiful funeral service, and another clergyman of our church was also present, who had graduated at Union, and was a friend of Mr. and Mrs. Foster. Near the casket sat Hon. Charles A. Phelps of the class of 1841, and myself of 1844-probably the two oldest graduates in this state, and another gradu- ate of Union. Mr. Cod wise had charge of the funeral. It was a very sad and sorrowful little band of friends that drew together that n1orning to pay the last tribute of respect and affection to the memory of one whom none of us will ever forget.\ In the obituary column of the Boston )'ournal of Oct. 20, appeared the folllowing: The venerable and beloved Dr. John Foster, for half a century one of the instructors at Union College, Schenectady, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the City hospital. He had been passing a

6 THE OONCORDIENSIS. few weeks in Boston,. and was taken suddenly : be unjust to him and to his boys' memories of ill on Thursday last with pneumonia. He was him to overlook. graduated frotn Union in 1835, and his life was The institution itself on this occasion 1nay given to tea.cbi ng. He was a tnan of high ·. weU recall the m·any and .most solid services scientific atta.inrnents, and by his visits abroad, . rendered it by hitn. In the selection from undertaken ito obtain instruments of precision . candidates for tutorships o1· professorial chairs for the colilege, he had becoine well known to. his judgment was often etnployed by Pr.esident leading ph~ysidans abroad. He received the Nott and the trustees. Often on suspense o.f degree of LL .. D. from the University of New · some departm.ent through iHness or absence of York in r874. For neady 20 years he was an its head he overburdened himsdf with its officer of tbe New York Alpha, of Phi Beta duties through entire terms, laboring as thor- Kappa, and was always a zealous member of oughly as in his own c~ass-room. The Physical the Sigma Phi, ·over whose general council he · apparatus which even yet amid the splendid often presided. advance of recent science is a credi:t to the ·Col- Educated under the famous Dr. Nott, he re- lege, owes much to his selection when in sembled him not alone in the urbanity and · Europe and sotnewhat to his own ingenuity. His courtesy which. distinguished that fatuous presi-. · frequent lectures during many seasons in the dent, but in his remarkable popularity among • public lyceums, without manuscript, instructive, both students and alutnni. enlivened with his hutnor, brought credit and FROM PROFESSOR WENDELL LAMOROUX. numbers to the College. Atnong those who through long association Through his long life our friend gave to the are best fitted tc write of Professor Foster, there many youth within his reach and to our ,com- is none who :could rnore appropriately fill the munity the example of a truly Christian faith office than Professor Lamoroux. His gradua- and practice; sitnple, unqualified in its trust in tion following but nine years later than that of the written Revelation, active for God and Doctor Foster, Professor Lamoroux writes from human good, in his long eldership in the Presby- the full heatit of an enduring and sympathetic terian church, in his earnest teaching of its large friendship wbicfu. had lasted half a century. His Bible·class for many years and in the regular tribute here follows: offering of hi's tithe of income to the ·service of Nearly fifty classes of Union's alumni, some his Lord. That faith and his fixity of will would of them the largest, some the worthiest, of the have borne him to tnartyrdom for his creed or hundred she bas given to the world feel a for a moral principle. special interest in the departure from this life of It is useful to recall the facts that shaped such their early friend, Professor John Foster. a nature and life. Our friend's parents were Upon most of those young minds and wills typical Scottish Covenanters, which accounts for at their critical stage he fixed a certain itnpres- well-nigh the whole of him. But also his youth sion unlike that of most teachers in our country. enjoyed the benefit of hut moderate means, It was a sense of the mighty virtue of thorough- which tnade self-control and persistence to one ness in appli·catiQn. In his class-room every end a daily habit. Also that youth was passed young worktilan had to yield up his \full tale in the pleasant farm-region of our neighboring of the bricks\ or then and there be brought to Washington county; this with such a com- direst shame and .confusion of face for his indol- munity could only help to make wholesome ence or inattention; and perhaps not a victim · body and wholesome soul. His student life was of the many but has recalled just those tribula- moulded as an earnest life like his would surely tions, even yeat~s after, with a certain half-awe be, by the personal magnetism of President but a most distiEct gratitude. The frequent play Nott, the equally powerful (though different) of humor, too., with its true Scotch turn, with personality and breadth and force of Bishop which he gritnly relieved the situation, it would Alonzo Potter, the discourses of both ofwhon1 he hal his of cle: sou Ja< ] pa1 mt: lan re(l anl act fdt ed M . tn B( F( Cl H . 111 n~ L at . Cl v~ h I t] Il I t \

THE OONCORDIIDNSIS. habitually recorded in his note book as well as his memory ; by the literary accotnplishtnents · of Professor John Austin Yates and by the . clear, versatile intellect, genial nature and oft:- sought private counsel of Professor Isaac \V. Jackson. Mrs. Foster alone survives, the helpful cotn- · panion of all his pursuits ; hut a score of com- munities-a hundred of them-in our broad . land are at this moment all unconsciously reaping through Union's graduates resident an1ong them the fruits of that long and efficient activity of our departed, honored and latnented frk~. ~4· CHARLESTON'S MEMORIAL. The following memorial appeared in the editorial columns of the Charleston, (S. C.) News and Courier of Oct. 23 : Prof. John Foster, LL. D., senior professor in Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., died in Boston, Mass., the day before yesterday. Dr. \ Foster was well known and much beloved in Charleston, where he ·was a frequent visitor. He had expected to spend a part of this winter in our city, and was only temporarily in Bobton, when he was· taken ill with pneumonia and soon quietly passed away. The funeral services were held in the College chapel of Union, where the president paid a :feeling tribute to the teacher of three score years' service, and the only remain- ing men1her of the faculty which contained such names as Eliphalet Nott, Alonzo Potter, Tayler Lewis, Isaac W. Jackson, Williatn M. Gillespie · and Laurens P. Hickok. There are many graduates of Union College in our state and city who will grieve to hear of the de1nise of the venerable professor, whom affection never names but as ''dear, old Jack.\ THE TRIBUTE OF DR. VEDDER. . The following lines were written by the Rev. Dr. Charles S. Vedder, LL.D., on hearing of the death of Professor Foster. Dr. Vedder, a member of the class of '51, is now pastor of the Huguenot church in Charleston, S. C. The tribute cannot but indicate the feelings of those who learned to love their old professor in under- graduate days-days when he was giving mind and body to their advancement. In the words of Dr .. Vedder in a private note, \It expresses what 'We 'old boys' of Union College feel for the last ()fthe old regim,e of Union's faculty.\ JOHN FOSTER.. S'o far- from home, thy last on .Earth to see I So far ~rom home, and home so much to thee! From ron grey walls, where thou as grey didst gro-w In fr.u.itful travail, care and zeal to know; From tba.t dear hill, enamored of thy tread Whil~t, th.l!ee-score years had harvested their dead ; So far- b~om home. to draw thy parting breath, And wha.t thou lovedst in life, to leave for death! ''So far :from home ? \ Ah, no I A wiser Power- Thy eonstant trust-disposed thy fateful hour. Thy bome was one no narrow line could bound, No pLaee enclose, no circling walls surround ; No hUt of beauty, when the day was done, Rich itt ,the radiance of the lingering sun.; No -wtOndrous st1·etch of river, 1nount and plain, Wh~r-e care its burden lost, and grief its pain. Nay, none of these, thou all of these were thine, On 1J:n:i.on's terrace-Memory's hallowed shrine! None, none of these thy home. They were but parts Of Home xnore lasting far in hnman hea:rts, 'Vhere thou dost live in love's enduring trust, And ~a.nst not die, though passed to kindred dust, And ib.ough afar from scenes thy life adorned Tho11.:ealnly laidstit down-our thought is warned Thy llome is where-beside whatever sea- Thy ''13oys'' name all that's true in naming thee. A.nd thus, although the heart that made thy home Beat ·near thine own, when that last hour had {~ome, A.nd te:nderest hands which thou hadst l()ved the best Closed.. ~thy worn eyes in that far distant r~st ;- Not iais alone forbids the plaint-''Alas, \So :fa.::r from home this noble life should pass,\ '.rnis thought, enshrining that, estops our tear- Co m.e death to thee, at last, or there o1· h.ere, Not fa.r :£r()m home couldst thou e'er live or die, When h.earts we1·e Home to thee, 'neath every sky t On account of the illness of Prof. Truax, Friday, his classes were excused from recita- tions. The freshman class received an exan1ination in French Tuesday afternoon, from Professor Mosher.

8 THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING \'HE COLLEGE YEAR. Vedder in the hearts of the many. And many indeed are they who have received from Professor Foster their noblest impulses and highest aspira- tions. 'The earth bas claimed its own; but the BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. =========================== '· strong, pure spirit hnplanted by him in the breasts B·OARD OF EDITORS. of his pupils insures an earthly !immortality. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief· CHARLES J, VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager,' A LINE of work which properly belongs to the CARL HAMMER, '98, - - - - - News Editor .· College Young Men's Christian association and JOHN L .. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager .. · which is being ;successfully prosecuted by the ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G. 0. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. \V. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERM8: CoNCORDIE.NSIS, - $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - - - - - 10 Cents PARTHENON, · $1.00 per Year, in Advance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. .Address all comn1unications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at. Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. NOTICE TO CONTRIBUTORS. All copy intended for insertion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDAY noon. IT IS pleasing to note that the library is con- stantly receiving additions other than those accruing from the ordinary sources. In fact, the growth has been so rapid within the last year or two that the question of sufficient room is be- ginning to receive serious consideration from the con1mittee in charge. The shelves are rapidly becoming erowded and the question is one that of necessity must be coped with in the not distant future. FROM all over the country come expressions of love and reverence for him who has lately passed away. The tribute of President Raymond finds echo in the tribute of Dr. Vedder; and that of Dr. associations in other colleges, is the furnishing of work to students who are largly dependent on self-assistance in financial matters. A student wishing work could leave his name at the associa- tion room.s, stating also what kind of work he is fitted to do. The men1bers of the association and others interested in its work could inform its secretary of any opportunities for work that would happen to come under their notice, and the plan would be on a working basis. It would, of course, be some time before the arrangement could be made highly efficient, but some .good would be done from the out-set. THERE should be no discouragement in matters athletie simply because the football team has repeatedly met defeat. This is notably a season of weak teams from colleges previously having strong teams and of strong teams from colleges previously having weak teams. So if Union has proven no exception and is destined to the first class, the undergraduates should regard the ma.tter philosophically and bide their time. They can do this with an especially good grace because the baseball outlook is really excellent and the track athletic prospects have never been better. Captain Thatcher and Captain Sylvester, while they can- not possibly make greater efforts than those of Captain Crichton, have every reason to look for- ward to seasons in their respective departments that will soon make the football scores a matter of record only. Captain Crichton has labored faith- fully and well. And if the fact of his untiring zeal has not found expression in victorious scores, he at least has exemplified splendidly that college spirit wl1ich is so little acted out but of which so Inuch is said . 11 , .thl de: :ch a is: co: fid wl pr th nc ce b) ar th . 1n tb et fe Ill dl k: n rr. fli \ tl J eJ tl tl ft ~ h s: s· a a i1 t:

T.HE 0'0NOORDIENSIS. 9 The students can prove in no better way that .their ardor is not to· be dampened by temporary defeat, than by going to Albany .Saturday and :cheering the team as though they had never lost a game.. The team is battered but probably so is Rutgers. Whether victorious or defeated at the conclusion of S'aturday's game, we may be con- fident the Union team will have played a gaUie of which every loyal so:n of our Alma Mater may be proud. TlJe <:ouraqe of ~l]rist. A sermon of peculiar strength and beauty was that preached in the chapel last Sunday after- noon by President Rayrnond. But little con- ception of its inspiring quality can be conveyed by an abstract. The subject was Christ's personal courage, and the text Matt. xxii :16, \Master we know that thou art truth, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man : for thou regard est not the person of men.\ These words were spoken by Christ's en- emies and show that even they recognized his fearlessness. Christ was both physically and morally courageous. In youth he was not a dull, unthinking carpenter ; his character as we know it was a growth and he held himself in reserve for the season when his work would be most effective. In contrast to this, young men now rush into business and trade unprepared, without the manhood that will carry them through. Then, the period of waiting over, he received John's baptism and went into the wilderness to endure the hardest temptation, that of the thoughts. His first active work was to cleanse the temple and his courage is the more notable from the fact that l1e was a perfect stranger and without authority. When Nicodemus came to him he neither equivocated nor temporized and said plainly, \Ye must be born again,\ in spite of the fa~t that Nicodernus represented the aristocracy of Israel. Christ went to Nazareth and did not hesitate to speak the truth, though it opposed his boyhood's friends; a courage that made him forever after an exile from home. During his stay near ~the sea of Galilee he became popular and w:as followed by a multi- tude, who were ready to ,make hin1 king. But he was able to put aside~ any desire for temporal power, and he forced :himself to suppress the growing enthusiasm. To the useless and foolish social customs of the Pharisees, such as the washing of hands on ~entering a house, ara.d non -intercourse with Samaritan~ and pubHcatts, he paid no attention, but denounced the Ph.arisees to their faces as hypocrites. At the last he went up to Jerusalem though he knew it was full of spies. In Gethse~mane, his courage seetned to have failed him, but triumphed before he fa<;ed Pilate. And this is the kind of man who asks us to \ follow him ; the titnes caU for Christianity not of creeds, but of Chri:st with his high, firm, courage. Doe tor Jial e '~'Ofl\plimeiJted. New Tork Education this month says edi- torially: We are in receipt of many letters thanking us for furnishing the teacbers of this State with the very suggestive and helpful little sketch by Dr. Edward Everett Hale, § r., of Union College. But the most effective compliment to his article and its helpfulness to teachers was given when Prof. of State N()rmal College at Albany told his class to read it,. as being one of the best things appearing in recent educational publica- tions. As a result the recitation hour the next day was taken up by the class in discussing the · two positions so clearly- .set forth by Dr. Hale- whether science or sytnpathy is the greater factor in education. .At the close of the discus- sion Prof. ''summed up,\ declaring that, in his judgtnent, sytnpathy, in the main, was the most potent force in making of character, and thus of men. The Klndergarten Maga- zine of Chicago, includes the sketch in its list of important educational articles in the current magazines that all should read.

10 THE CONCORDlENSIS. · Bott ................ left end .............. Messmer Vorhees .......... quarter back ............. Smith B·uffalo Defeats UQiOQ. , · Storey, Eabarn .. right half back ... Capt. Crichton The University of Buffalo had everything Got~don ........... left half back ......... Robinson its owa way after the first ten minutes of the . Baggerly ... ··· ...... full back .. ·· ...... ·· .. ·· Hoxie game with Union on Wednesday, Oct. 20 • Touchdowns-· Pilkey, (1), Storey, (2), Gordon, (2). Goals .. Gordon, (3). Halves-. · 20 Ininutes. ·Offi.- They were much too heavy for the Union . team, and their weight and good interference . won the ·gatne. Euffalo won the kick off and on the second trial the ball was caught by Robinsor, \.Vho . made a gain of 8 yards. Union continued to go right through Buffalo's line for about fifteen . yards, when the tide of fortune changed. Noth- . ing else was done by Union during the game · except continual retreat before the beefy Buffalo team. Euffalo won the ball on downs and made re- peated gains through Schmitter and Poole. The first touchdown \\vas made in about seven min- utes. No goal. Union kicked off and Buffalo made a 35 yard gain. Repeated gains through the tackles and around the ends soon scored another touchdown but no goal was kicked .. The same thing was repeated again and again. · Union had possession of the ball only three times during the gatne except at kick off. At the end of the first half the score stood Buffalo I4; Union o. The second half was a repetition of the first except tbat the game was constantly interrupted by some player being hurt. Euffalo fumbled the ball frequently but other- wise they played well. Alport, the Buffalo right tackle, has played with Yale; and White, the left tackle, used to play on the Cornell team. Good work was done by Price and Messmer. Union's tackling was poor, and they did not have the ball long enough in their possession to display their in- terference. BUFFALO 26. POSITION. UNION. Pilkey ............. right end ................. Price Alport ............ right tackle ............... Poole :Kruse ............. right guard ............ Thomas Meyers .............. center .................. Close Somiskoy ......... .left guard ........... Bookhout White ............. left tackle ............ Schmitter cials-Mr. Peale of Buffalo, and Jones, '98. fie WaQted to l{QOW. The late Professor Jewett had a curious way of comtnenting on the work that was brought to him by students. On one occasion he was shown a set of Greek verses. After looking them over carefully he glanced up rather blankly and said to the author, ''Have you any taste for mathematics ? \ BusiiJess EQterprise. Mr. Charles Burrows has recently n1ade an. addition to his printing and publishing plant that will be fully appreciated by the students. He is now ready to do all kinds of embossing,_ especially fraternity, college and business. letter- heads. To secure this work it has been neces- sary heretofore to go to Albany. Among the first work of this kind done by Mr. Burrows were some handsome college note heads which he has on sale. The College Hill Golf club tnet the Schenec- tady Golf club on the college links last Satur- day. The Schenectady Golf club was defeated by a score of 22 to I 2. The score follows: COLLEGE HILL. SCHENECTADY. , Romeling ............ 1 Williams ............ 0 Pildain .............. 4 Erben ............... . 0 Hamil ............... 10 J. Conover .......... 0 Bennett ............. 0 E. Conover .......... 5 Hale. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 0 Green. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Raymond ............ 7 Oudin .............. 0 Lovejoy ............. 0 Kirkland ........... o Total. ............. 22 · Total ..........•... 12 an sit wl th ml m: as . lll sc ro th ar ki a u u tb d< w be C< tl T h: tl fi v t1 Sl \[ ]! -v :E }i c '1 I I '

TilE CONCORDIEN.SiS. 11 Syraeuse Vietorious. · Robinson. . . . . . . . . . . .left half ............... Wilcox The 'Varsity went to Syracuse last Saturday • and m,et defeat at the hands of Syracuse univer- sity by what seetned to be a large sco1 4 e ; but when the fact is taken into consideration that the game with Buffalo left Captain Crichton's · men in poor condition, the score is not so re- markable. Syracuse worked to win this game ·. as they had never worked before, for they real- ized that in football Syracuse had never triun1phed over the Garnet. Each man went into the garne with the remembrance of such scores as 66, 62, and 6o to o, which Union rolled up against them a few years ago : each of their eleven n1en resolved that they must win ; and win, they certainly did. In the first half 'Goodwin caught Union's kick off and returned the ball twenty yards. By a series of rushes Syracuse brought the ball to Union's 25 yard line where it '\~las fumbled. Union lost the ball on downs and Crane was then pushed over the line for the first touch- down. Vorhees kicked the goal. Union's kick was caught by Vorhees who made a good run before being downed. After several gains Wil- cox took the ball for a twenty yard gain around the left end and soon after scored a touchdown .. The goal was kicked. The remainder of the half, Syracuse, by steady gains scoaed again, thus leaving the score at the end of the first half 18 too. The second half was but a repetition of the first, Syracuse using several trick plays to good advantage. Pa1JDer made two touchdowns, •. Wilcox, one, and Gendatl, one, from which three goals were kicked. Score, 40 too. The sumn1ary: UNION. SYRACUSE. ,...... 1 ft d { Palmer J..U.essmer. . . . . . . . . . . . . e en . . . . . . . . . . . . Lyon Wilson ............. left tackle ............... Oday Bookhout .......... .left guard ........... Franklin Mill~i t ~ tb Close ) .............. cen er ............ .w.at ews Thomas ........... right guard .............. Glass Poole .............. right tackle ........ Smallwood Price } · ht d G d · weed . . . . . . . . . . . . . rig en . . . . . . . . . . . oo w1n S 'th t b k 5 Gendall m1 •.•.•..•...•• quar er ac ....... , l Palmer C . ht . ht h lf· J Crane . ric on ... ~ . . . . . . . rig . . a1 . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Dorr Hoxie ............... full baek .............. Vorhees Referee-· W. T. Young. Umpire-W. F. Palmer, Cornell, '99. Line~m.en-J. S. Briggs. Rochester, '90, and S. G. H. 'rurner, Union, '98. Time of halves, twenty min.utes. Wagner, 1901, -visited his hon1e Sunday, at Albany. Heermance, 1901, spent Sunday at his home in Hudson. Miller, 190!, spent Sunday at his horne in Johnstown. W. C. Yates bas been elected captain of the senior eleven. Professor Mosher's French classes were examined this week. Ayrault, 1901, who has been ill with typhoid fever, is convalescent. Medberry, '99, has been at Ballston for a few days visiting his parents. Professor Pollard visited his parents in V er- mont during the past week. The freshman essays are being corrected this • week by Professor Webster. Van Vlack, Igoo, spent Saturday and Sunday at his home, at Canajohat·ie. A two-step composed by Collier, 1901, has . been dedicated by him to the college. Turner, '98, and Price, '99, were entertained at a dinner party at Syracuse Saturday. Smith, '99, will coach the Fort Edward foot ball eleven for the ren1ainder of the season. Sylvester, '99, visited his parents at Lyons, N.Y., Friday. He also witnessed the Syracuse- Union game. Brown, '99, accompanied hitn. The freshman class will, at their next meet- ing adopt a gytn~nasitll'n uniform. The jerseys will be garnet and light green, the class colors. At a meeting ()f the freshn1an class held Mon- day afternoon, ''Garnet and Green\ were adop- ted as class colors. Also, Gage and Cook were appointed a committee to secure a class cut for the Garnet.

12 -ADVERTISEMENTS .. ----- -~==============================~===============================~= John VanSchaick, '94, has been appointed ·instructor of English and French at the college of Emporia, Emporia, Kansas. Prof. Van Schaick was for two years after his graduation, principal ,of the Sharon Springs high school, and has since spent a year in post graduate work at Boston. His new field is one of the newer co-educational colleges of the west, and he is deservedly thought a considerable acqui- sition. cl]e DebatiQQ Soeiet.ies. The Adelphic literary society met as usual on last Friday afternoon and debated the following question : Resolved, that Hawaii should not be annexed to the United States, even if the Hawaiians then1selves favor annexation. The The debate was won by the negative. The Philomathean's have changed their time of meeting frotn Friday afternoon to W ednes- day evening. The second meeting under the new rule was held Wednesday evening, and the 'Who is .•• ·C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large asso1·tment for Fall and Winter. CALL A.N'D SEE THEM. 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY,N.Y. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- tll''Y and ~team eieanin~ and k:lyein~ Wo!lir.s. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-class work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge, cJ~GOB RINDFLEISGH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Open. until9 P. M. Work done at short notice. INSURANC·E. EVERY DESCRIPT.ION, B. C'LEVELAND: ·SLOAN, 424 STATE STREET. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, caH and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Mille G. E. BO'l'HAM, 214 CLINTON ST. KEELER'S a •• EUROPEAN •• HOTEL AHD RESTAURANT, Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. _._.._ • • QENTLEMEN ONL T. 250 ROOMS. • , • Ladies Restaurant Attached • , , • • WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. UNION RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. \ SHOES N.Ef.ITL T REPAIRED •• , AT THE , •• ENTERPRISE A REP .AIRING A SHOP, 45 SOUTH CENTRE STREET. pre dis mu ne, tlu . lll Be A. c. un c. Vc B:: w N. y ex N M bt Jo r 1(} r Co St: m~ l B. 2

------ADVERTISEMENTS.- 13 present political situation in New York ·city discussed. The appearance of the rooms is much improved ·since the furniture has been newly upholstered. W. tc L .. E. CURLEY, 51 4 FU L TO'N ST. , T R 0\ N. Y. · · Largest Manufacturers in America . . . . @w 8el]ool Eteet.ioiJS. At the election of officers of the class of '98 of the Albany Law school, the regular ticket won : in all but four cases, as follows: President,. J. G. Beckwith, Jr., LitchHeld, Conn. ; vice-president, A. J. McNaught, Jr., Delhi, N. Y.; secretary, C. A. Deneen, Fort 'Covington, N. Y. ; treas .. urer, R. W. Scott, Albany, N. Y. ; addressor, C. C. Flaesch, Schenevus, N. Y. ; orator, J. W. Veeder, Schenectady, N. Y.; historian, J. W. Barrett, Malone, N. Y. ; poet, R. Dawson, Fort Wayne, Ind. ; prophet, W. J. Gratton, Cohoes, N. Y.; toastmaster, J. H. Curtice, Webster, N. ' Y.; tnarshal, P. A. Pitcher., Watertown, N.Y.; executive committee, J. L. Gibson, Jr., Salem; N. Y. ; S. Shephard, Ithaca, N. Y. ; E. A. Mackey, Delhi, N. Y. ; L. K. R. Laird, Au- burn, N. Y., chainnan. Organized 1858. Incorporated. J K · The largest membership of L H AN 0 ~·. LEIN, any musical organization OUIS, INKELM ' Duector. in Albany. Manager. lOTH BEGT. MILITARY :SAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, Hamilton, Cornell, Williams, Middlebury etc. Furnished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, .Tan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, 1,Veddings, :Balls, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. HINKELMAN, :Mgr •. , Telephone 1240. 75 State St., Albany. l~~f~ ~ ~dll~U~J~'fll~INIS and othe~ flowers ~ constantly on hand ..•.. At • GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. II HIGH GRADE SHOES II -AT LOWEST PBICES.--- . . . of Engineers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Instruments and Materials. ~l:f A YLE .& SeN, ~ ....................................................... ~ * E.!iQRAVEKJ, * ..---ALBANY, N.Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City wlth FlR'E- PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. E. M. 1\'IOORE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. 245 State St. PATTON & HALL. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.

14 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- Yates' Boat House. The largest and best ·equipped in the State. Excel- lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties OJi].ly, in connection with house. 29 Front 8treet, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. COAL_ .wMM .... ~ The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal. for sale by VEEDER ·B R·QS .. , No. 424 STATE STREET. ]Vl.. }l. Sei{}lFFE>I{B, (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), b. PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Sup:pUes. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for popular prices: Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GrosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 4:82. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' Colle~e, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 13/:tl\JiYTE ~ TJE1lE]'IJ?Eel(, •- wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL aiJd WeeB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, li,eed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw and Fertilizers. 306, 308 and 310 Union, 209 and 211 Dock St •. Schenectady, N.Y. Wade & Co., FLE>I{ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE,------- HATTER AND FURRIER. .A...lso, TTUll'tk&, Bag11., Suit Dases, Gl()rves, Umb'l'el:las, Oanes, Etc. 227 STATE 8'TREe1'. u . At .. [!] No. 15 THoMAs' Musrc SToRE w {f) {f) (f) North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. ., [!] You will find. the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zi,thers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 1.'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write fol\ terms on PIANOS. ~----THOMAS HAS THE B·EST~ EMBOSSED-\\''\''\'''\'' UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104:-106 wan Street, SCHE!fECTADY, N. Y. Su Ma sar sit4 Fh fitf Su Gt A. v B: =

THE ·ooNCORDIENSIS. 15 f)ASE BALLI Supplies, Spalding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for samples and special rates. Every requi· site for 'Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gy1nnasiuu1 Equipments and Out- fits. Cou1plete Catalogue of spring and Sumn1er Sports free. '' The Name the Guarantee.\ A. G. SPALDING & BROS., NewY1i~il~icago. WIENCKE'S--------.. l)oTllELL GE~MANIA AND ~ESfllAU~ANTit. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. BRIAR, AMBER AND l\£EERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S CENI'Rf\L PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor. No. ~8'1 8tate St., BCHEN.EOT.A..DY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. tfNI0N eOLLEEiE B00K EXeJ~JiN6E. All College Texis, Draughtirag lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary :ollege suppli.es. ·PICK:FORD BROS., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULT·R£'\. ~Gan1e in season. Telephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SouTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Cotnmission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECTADY CLO:THING CO., ••• THE LEADING .•• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Edison Hotel Building. .A. G. HE:RBICH. . The Arlington Hat Co., 808 State St., Scheneetady, N. Y. Mf\NUFAGTURER8 OF H:f\1'8. Jlats Cleaned and Repaired. Wholesale and I\etail •. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 11 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. · Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table· Board $3.50 Per Week.

16 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- 'THE• ONLY • FLORISTS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. .ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT .• 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE :BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Intercollegiate Bureau ror ~ ~_ApgJ GOWN$ AND HOODS •. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL AND LEONARD, 472-478 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. S. E. ~~~~~N, ~~., Men's . . . . Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE· REGAL SHOE . ... 1:. -... ~.' \ 3 A & D6 1\1' 'd T;,.;'f.' . .,... •. ± . o 1:ua1 en _ua,ne. . . ALBANY, N. Y. P.F.McBREEN Jlttll Jlas~iflt(JJ attd Jlttb~its READY FOR YOUR INSP::ECTION AT JOHNS·ON'S, THE POPULAR TAIL:OR. fl. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. G. AUSTI:N ENGRAVINGOO., •• , 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line :Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estima.ies. College work a Specialty. F. A. VanVranken. F. Van Vranken. VF\N VRANKEN BROS., IMF>0~111ING <9AILO~S, 48 NOR'JH PEARL Srr., . Notman Building. ALBA\-.JY ·N Y I .., ' I I 218 William St., New York. R. T. MOIR, ~~===­ BOOKs, FI:NE 81'A'T'IONERY, PICTURE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, Erra. AL:E~YDSY PRINTER STEAMSHIP AGENCY .•.•• 883 State St., Schenectady, N. Y ElKES A RgSES, CV'f FLOWERS FURNISHED A'T' SHOR'T NOTIGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL~ HEA·D-TO- FOOT. ALBANY, N. Y. ~SAUL. •

