'.. . .~. ·,;.' . --· ~. ; ··- '•· .• ' . _T _____ .......... __ '1 . ' . . ~. -. ..· \ '· : . ' ' ' ' . ' . . .-}·- ·h'. -e-. ' r • ' -·' '''\ . . r ' ~- d ' . . oncor 1ens1s. VOL •. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY T:HE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. I SEPTEMBER 22, t 897. No. 1.

-ADVERTISEMENTS- UNION COLLEGE A.mliiW\ T. T. li'mOlfD, D. :0., LL, D., Preaident. UNlON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y . . 1. Courl!!e Leading t() the Degree of A. B.-The usual ClM!ioal Course, including French and Germa.n. .A.fter ~opho­ mor• year the work is largely elective. ~. Cour•• Leading 't() th.e Degree of B. S.-The modern lan~u&ge8 are substituted for the ancient and the a.mount ot. )!fa.thematics :and English studies is increa,sed. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to tl1e Degree of :Pb.. B.-This differs from the A.. B. course chiefly in the omis~i.on of Greek and th• .Bubstitution tberefor of additional work in modern lanirtla.ges and ~cience. 4.,. G•neral Course LeadiRg to tile Degree of :B. E.- This course is intended to ~ive the basis of an Engineering edue&tion, inctuding the :fundamental principles of all special branches of the -professio~ a knowledge of both French and Germa:n. and a. full course in English. lS. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of :B. E.- This differl!J from Course -4: in substituting special work in Sft.nita.rr Engineerin~ foT some of the General Engineering 11tudies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course -4: in Sllbstituting special work in Elee- trlcity and its applications, in. place of some of the General Engin~e:ring studies. This course is offered in co-oiJeration 'With the Edison General Electric Company. '· Graduate Cour11e in Engineel'ing Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4. 5 or ~. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, lfetallur~ and Natural History. For cataloguel!J or foT special information address :BENJ.A.ltiTN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded eour~e. In- rtrnetio'llA by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical ad-vantages excellent. Expense:S.-MatTiculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetn.al ticket, $250; graduation fee, S25 ; dissecti.n~ fee, $10; laboratory course, each. $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, ll. D., Re~strar, .Albany, :N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Scbool.-This department is located at Albanyl near the State Capitol. l t occupies a buildin~ wholly deToteo. to itt! use. The eourse is one year, di-vided mto two !em esters. Expemues.-Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For eatalogues or other information, addres! J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean . .A.LBA.NY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Jb:erciBeJ held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commence& Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- t.iOil addreas DE 8.4.UN V .AN AKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, Z22 Hamilton St. Ge11_ tleme11 • • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and n1ost tnodern :Boot, Shoe a.nd Rubber Emporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST., COR. WALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' BON SONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. IJhe line6t ~igar6 and the lure6t of J2rugo, AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9HE ... €DISON r)OJitEU, ...._.--Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, and the Largest a1zd Best Apjointed Hotel in the ct'ty. Headquarters for Commercz'a} T1•avellers a1z.d Tourlsts 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIE1'0R,

The Co11cordie11sis VoL. XXl. UNION COLLEGE, SEPTEMBER 22, 1897. No. 1. President Raymond Greets New Students and Old at the First Chapel Service. The first chapel &ervice of the new college year was held last :Friday morning and few stu- dents were absen:t. Fresident Raymond presided and at the close of the customory devotional ex- ercises delivered an informal address of welcotne to the old and new students and to those present for the first time. He said in part : '' On behalf of the f:aeulty and trustees, as well as personally, 1 greet you this morning with a most cordial we ]come. It is a pleasure to look into the familiar faces and feel that an- other year of :fellowship is before us; for above and beyond all else in college Hfethatwhich brings the largest return. of enjoy1nent fo1· the present and the future ~s fella-wship,-the intercourse fron1 day to day that directs thought, moulds character, 1 and creates mu.tua.l:understanding, mutual respect, mutual regard. And if it is a pleasure thus to re- new the friendsbips already formed, it is no less a pleasure to op€n ou1· circle to receive those who ask to share our pri ~ileges. Though strangers as yet, I can say bs way of introduction that they have been chasen out of many applicants as worthy to bear the name of Union college men. As such we bid .tllem. welcome in the na1ne of all that makes the old college dear to us. I an1 re- minded among other th.ings of the flight of time as I turn to the Senior seats and realize that the men sitting the11e were the first whom I had tbe pleasu1·e of welcollling officially to the Fresh- Inan seats, and because of the fact that I have fol- lowed you. tb.roug,ll. a,ll your college course thus far, it is natural that I should feel a special interest in the class of '{}8, and a special confidence in your co- operation in reaJizing tl1e ideals always before us, and toward whieh we have been g1·adually work- ing-sentiments, principles, standa1·ds of scholar- ship and of cluu·aeter which we would make the distinguishing feat11res of undergraduate life at Union. Bette1• tba,n any other men who have come into ;the pia~e of inflnence a,nd leadership belonging naturally to Seniors, you understand our purposes and aims, and so it is not strange that I turn to you at the beginning of this the last year of our associated life, and say: let us make it a year of special progress in the things that com- mand universal respect, progress in the ¢f.irection of the worthiest rnanhood. Let us establish here, firmly and forever, the principle that no man is worthy of our fellowship who does not hold his honor above price. We meet today under encouraging conditions. There can be little doubt that our whole country is entering upon a new era of commercial pros- perity and this is a general assurance that when you go forth as educated men you will face in- creased opportunities, a larger demand for your services than the last few years have promised. It isamarked feature of every advancing civilization that it calls for trained ability. The need of de- veloped powers increases 'vith every new stage of progress, so that today the young man who as- pires to a large place in the life of his generation shows his wisdom by taking time for self-develop- ment. It is this that gives special meaning to the years you spend in college, even though you there- by miss passing opportunities of employment; but the benefit of these years depends, of course, upon the use you make of them, the earnestness with which you devote yourselves to the work in hand. That work is primarily study, thought, mental training. Of this work the class-room must al- ways be the truest expression; so that in a general way your work in the class-room becomes the measure of the good you get from college life. What I wish you to realize, young gentlemen, at the beginning of this new year, is that the college by the requirements of its curiculum and by the ability and zeal of its faculty, o:ffe1·s you opportu- nity. That word 1 better than any other, expresses the advantage which you have here; and, when you think of it, all that any man has a right to ask is opportunity. a fair chance; and it is always and everywhere the use that a man makes of his opportunities that determines what he becomes. We cannot quarrel with this law of life. When \'e talk of the blessings'of a free land, what do we mean n1ore than this, that it gives every roan a chance to rise; and so I repeat, the most that any man has a right to ask is an opportunity. Given \

T8E CONCORDIENSIS. that, the result rests wholly with hin1s~lf . 'The ' college cannot give you knowledge and trained . faculties. It only gives you an opportunit~to get them for yourselves-a better opportuilility than. , you ·can get out of college and as good a.n oppor- · tunlty here as you can find in any othe~ :eollege. Our responsibility ends when we give y(iru as fair ; a cha.nce as any man can have. When you accept : · the ehance you.r responsibility begins; ·a,nd it is this very responsibility that shows every day wbat kind of men you are. There are few re- stra.ints in college life; we have no :pr-esci'ibed hours for study, no 'regulations that eu:rtail a man's liberty withi~n certain broad lilnits. Every · man is his own master ; he can .go and C(i)De as he pleases, do in :general as be chooses. FJhe use wbich be makes of his liberty tells the std that is in bim. If it is the stuff of which men are nade, : he does what he ought to do,. makes the ruost of : his chance, and -when he leaves college he ~s ready to 1na.ke the most. of other opportunities tha.t n1eet : him. 1 would not seem to imply that you are here simply to prepare yourselves for a successf.al busi- ness or professional: career. In the best sense you are llere to prepare yourselves for larger living,- that kind of living that identifies a man with the inte:rests of the ·eommunity, making hin a sharer in the work of building up a stable and benificent civic life; and fortnis the college offers e:xe(lptional opportunities, not e>nly in the studies whJeh per· ta.in directly ot· indirectly to the duties of ·eitizen- ship, but also in the various institutioas~ enter- pr-ises and interests of college life. A student is part of the college community charged with a mea.!ure of responsibility for the advanceinent of all the interests of that community. Whatever concerns the college concerns him, and to jnst the extent that be shares this larger life of the college l.lfJiOQ at tl]~ UQiv~rsity (.oQvoeatioQ. The annual convocation of the University of the State of New York took place in the senat~ chamber at Albany, June 28-30. Many promi- nent educators were present and amongst them a conspicuous place was taken by members of the faculty of th.is college. 'The first day was devoted to the welcoming address of Chancellor Anson Judd Upson and an. :address by Gov. Black. The second day, after a number of interesting papers by profess- ors from differen.t colleges and schools, Prof. James L. Patterson of Union opened the discus- sion of college athletics. After a short review of the grovvth of athletics in the college world he said that the past few years had witnessed an increase of interest shown by the faculty in out- door sports. The alumni had also taken a hand and more interest in general had been shown. By degrees professionalism is being driven out of college athletics, Prof. Patterson said, and, though there are a number of young men to be found in some of our large universities who are kept under salary for the purpose of representing the college in athletic contests, the tendency now is to drive this sort of dishonesty out of the realm of collegiate .athletics. He dwelt on the rowdyism displayed by some college enthusiasts in yelling and shouting during a contest. Play- ing ball with one's mouth is not athletics. 'l'm- portant and bene£cical as athletics are to the is he developing himself as a man. This puts edu- cational value in the enterprises athletie,. :m usieal, social, religious, which form so large a partoitheeol- Iege world today. 'I' hey tend directly to devel'op that public spirit which is one of the ehief ch.ara.cter- isties of civilized life, and upon which the :pr-ogress of eivilization depends. Every man needs some- thing to call hin1 out of himself, to create in him enthusiasm for ·something larger than his own. per- sonal interests. I -would have you feel, taerefo1·e, that it is a legitimate part of your work t() :enga.ge whole-heartedly in these enterprises, giving them your practical support, your active co-oJ)eration. For the time being they are your public in.terests. They make the world to which you belong. Col- lege spirit is publie spirit for college men, and public spirit. on the part of her educated men is wha;t America needs today. In this way -th.e col- lege becomes the tra.ining school for citizenship, and you are doing the most for yourselves and for the Dation when you are doing the most f~i' lJnion ' college student, it should be remembered that the out-door sport that tends to take the scholar's time to the detriment of his studies is a serious irnpedi ment to a bene£cial college course. college. · With these principles before us and worldng to- g~ther, faculty and students, the year wil:l be one of progress. \ One of the special features of the afternoon's session was a paper on '' Rhetorical Exercises and Exhibitions\ by Prof. Edward Everett Hale. Prof. Hale said in part : '' 'Orations' and 'debates' do not exist because our scholar- ship demands manifestation; they exist for an- other reason, because we Americans are fond of public speaking. Neither can be regarded as representative of scholarship. They are each Inanifestations of a particular form of student ene1·gy. There is this to be said about college orations and debates. The first we . may say

THE CONOORDIENSIS. 5 are put:ely ornamental; the speaker has no real object except to 'exhibit himself.'\ During the third day, Prof. James R. Truax read a paper on '' The American College and the American University,'' arguing that the col- lege does not necessarily decrease as the univer- sity increases. Prof. Hale spoke along the same line and said that each has a distinct field of usefulness. Prof., Ashmore declared at some length that the college can do its proper work only when it adopts t}1e German idea. At the closing session Professors Hnle and Patterson spoke again in favor of athletics and Prof. Landreth read a paper on \The Relation Q( the Engineering School to the University.\ Ult}ere t~e Faeulty 8pef]t tl]e Summer. President Raymond and family were at the seashore near Cape Cod part of the titne. Dr. Raymond supplied a New York church Sun- days. Doctor Whitehorne visited his son in New Jersey. Dean Ripton with his fatnily was at Ocean Grove four weeks. Professor and Mrs. Ashmore were at the Sagamore, Lake George, with a party of friends. Professor Wright attended the annual meeting of the British association for the Advancen1ent of Science at Toronto, and remained in this city the rest of the time. Professor Landreth and Instructor Walker have been engaged in engineering work at Saranac. Professor Hale has been the guest of his father at his summer home in Rhode Island. Instructor Lynes has been at work in the library all sutnmer, but took short trips to his borne at Middleburgh. The last ten days were spent at Baltimore. Instructor McKenzie has just returned from a trip to Europe. Instructor Opdyke remained quietly at his home at Plainfield, N. J. · Professor Perkins has been in the Adirondacks ~nd at the seashore. . Instructor Bennett took a canoeing trip through Lake George, Lake Champlain and the St. Lawrence. Mrs. Peissner has, as usual, spent all summer at Asbury Park. :G:t}e ~aQe ~usl7. The Freshtnan and Sophotnores had their cane-rush last Monday afternoon on the campus, at).d in spite of the rain the contest was one of the best that has been held for years. The Freshtnen as usual, had assembled in chemical laboratory, while the Sophomores used the Chapel as their headquarters. For over .an hour before the engagement, several captured Freshmen were held to put the stores of salt in small paper bags, while their free brethren stored up tom a toes and planned tactics for the approaching catnpaign. Both classes were out in almost full force, and the \ cane,\ a \\Tell greased base ball club, was gotten in readiness by upper classrnen. Shortly after four o'clock, while the Fresh- men were still practicing their new yell, in which they harmonized only on the \oh Soph,\ the '' Sopqs \ themselves sallied forth in foot ball attire and in the raiment of days gone by. They came with lusty cheers. Their slogan reached the Freshtnen in the chemical laboratory, and in a moment the battle was on. The Freshmen rushed forth and met the enemy fifty yards from North college. For a moment there was a n\leteoric shower of white salt in one direction and a twin shower of red toma- toes from another direction. The upper class- men yelled with approval. Then while the con- flicting forces were still separated, except here and there where individual wrestling matches were in process of accomplishment, Ref- eree Holcomb, '98, tossed the stick high in air with a haloo for attention. If it had rained sticks none of them would have ever touched the ground. The bat was seized by a dozen eager hands and the game was on in earnest. Back- ward and forward they sut·ged in a hollow square of umbrellas and onlookers. Everything was interesting to the extreme when tin1e was called and the hands were counted. There was a moment of suspense and then the words '' The Freshmen Win.\ A wild cry from the Fresh- men and sheepish looks from the Sophomorei, crys of '' Good Frosh ! \ from the onloookers, then a wild scu.rry through the increasing down- pour ~nd all was over.

6 THE: CONCORDIENSIS. ~olle~e fnef] iQ 8umm~r j\tl]f~ties. It is interesting to all to note the sutn mer per- formances of athletes vvho have been dis- tinguished during the year in college athletics. : Good natured rivalry between members of · college teams is often continued under the ·colors of the various athletic clubs, and many a defeat is reversed under t:hese colors. AU Union tnen are inte1:ested in knowing , that while the trainer of tlleir victorious track team,, John Cosgrove, did not w-in the A.tnerican all-round chan1pionship as he has £onnerly done, he bettered the figures of last years' vvin- ner, and Ellery H. Clark, who defeated him, broke an all-round record that has stood since 1891. Another athlete in whom Union men are interested is John F. Cregan of Princeton. As will be ren1en1bered he was decisively beaten in the spring inter-collegiate games by Orton of University of Pennsylvania. On the 28th of August, in the A. A. U. chatnpionship games, he settled scores by running Orton off his feet in the tnile, winning this ntce and the half-mile as well, both in fast time. This feat has not been accomplished in a number of years. Bernard J. Wefers of Georgetown university has also retrieved his defeat in the Mott Haven ga:mes. He has defeated Maybury and Rush the farnous Western collegians, and has repeated his record figures of 9 4-5 s. for roo yards. The sutntner's career ofT. B. Turner, forn1er holder of the Princeton tnile record, should be an encourag~ment to all persistent athletes. rren years ago when he began to train, his best perfonnance after a year's running was a n1ile in sm. I7S. vVhile in co11ege he was pace- maker for Vvalter Dohtn, and on the 7th of last August made a new rnetropolitan record of r m. 56 2-5s. for the half-t-nile. This is the best ~unateur half-tnile of the year, with the excep- tion of I-Iollister'e rm. 54 2-5s. made in his spring inter-class games. Among the bicyclers the tnost noted college man of the year is probably Powell of Colutn- bia, who besides nutnerous other su1ntner vic- tories, won the two mile an1.ateur at the great L. A. W. meet in Philadelphia. ..Among the western collegians the most noted at present is A. C. Kraenzlein, the low hurdler. He hol,ds the world's indoor record at this gatne and Perkins of Yale is the only hurdler able to push hin1 at present. He was the only western coUege man to win an A. A. U. cha,mpionship . this year. Fettennan, of the University of Pennsylvania, :the inter-collegiate champion in the walk, has been forced to take second to Liebgold of the N. J. A. C. His work is as consistent and fast as were his college performances, but the new Jersey man is a world beater and has had much more experience. 1'his brief review may be fitly ended with a notice ofT. E. Burke of Boston university. He has not been beaten at 440 yards this year, and has won numerous races fro1n 250 to 88o yards inclusive. At 6oo yards he holds the world's reco1·d. Twice he has been inter-collegiate cha.rnpion in the quarter 1nile and for a number of years A. A. A. champion. His 49 seconds, on August 28th, are the fastest figures for the year, and this together with his other perform- ances mark him as the fastest middle distance man 1i ving, and an athlete of whom college men rnay be proud. Tt}~ Y. m. \. fl. f1~GeptiOIJ. TheY. M. C. A. gave their fourth annual re- ception at the hotne of President Raymond' on Friday evening, Septetnber 17. In the past this has proven to be one of the most pleasant gath- erings .of the college year, and this year's recep- tio.r:t will evidently he no exception. An un- usually large number of students were present, and for the time being all class feeling was for- gotten and all joined in making the incoming Freshmen feel at hotne. Many members of the faculty were there to welcome the new students, and greet the older ones. Several of Schenec- tady's clergymen were also there, representing the various churches. Part of the evening was spent in singing college songs. Everybody had a good time and the evening afforded an €xcel- lent opportunity for everyone to heco1ne ac- quainted with each other.

·,. THEJ CONCO:RDlENSlS. 5:t)e OpeQi9~ 8ermotJ. A large number of students and members of ;' the faculty were pt~esent at the chapel service last Sunday afternoon to hear President Ray- mond preach his opening sermon. The dis- course was a powerful one and of peculiar fit~ ness to the occasion and the auditors. He took his text from Paul's second Epiistle to the ,Corinthians, 1 :19. Among other things he said: ''Paul was a o-reat man, as writer, orator, organizer, and as b such he is entitled to respect for the truth he spoke. But like all great men. he had ,enetnies, sotne even in the church. And when he was forced to break his protnise of a visit to Corinth, some in the church tried to hurt his reputation by saying he was either treacherous or fic\kle. Now it is a good thing to have a good reputa- tion. Men should diligently seek for this, and they shoul:d be positive and open in. all things. When we atten1pt to count up the number of those whom we know ¥vill be on the right side in any question of right and wt·ong, we have to stop soon, for rnen are not positive enough. It was nothing praiseworthy for the seven thousand in Israel who had not bowed the knee to Eaal that Elijah did not know of their exi~tence. It is doubtless a con1fort to know that in every community there is n1uch unknown virtue; but how much better for the cause of Christ if the leaders did know it and could count positively on it. \Paul says that in God was yea, and the posi- tiveness that is a part of Him is a trait for all tnen to cultivate. A wrong belief strongly held is better than no belief. There are n<> dyna n1ics in agnosticism. The safest place for a n1an is in the heart of a country, not on tl1e fl~ontiet· be- tween two beligerent powers. It has been said that it was a wonderful thing t11at Colt:tmbusdis- covered America, but it would have been far more wonderful had he failed to discover it. That is to say, it was a wonderful thing that he sailed west, when all other navigators were sailing north and south and east. But once having started west, and continuing in that di- rection, it would have taken a miracle t<> pre- vent his discovering the new continent. Col- lege life is, to an entering class, an undiscovered world. It has 1nuch richness to afford, and it will require a miracle to prevent him who starts and continues aright, from acquiring and enjoy- ing this richness. Then start in the right di- rection and be positive in everything, for the zeal that will enable one to lay hold strongly on. falsity, will likewise enable a man to be power .. ful in truth.\ (ieqeral fltl}leties. The golf li~ks are being gotten into good condition and a fine season is being looked for- ward too. Daley, Pildain and Campbell will be missed this season in the expected tourna- ment with the Edison club, but several pron1is- ing players are looked for from the incoming class. As yet no gatnes -vvith other clubs have been arranged. Tennis is enjoying an active revival just at present, and to most of the men in college it has lost none of its old time interest. Two of the four courts are in use every available hour of the day, and the two other courts will be put into fonn within a few days. Under the auspices of the Tennis association, an inter- class tournan1ent has been an·anged which promises to be of decided interest. What the result will be is a much-mooted question. The star players of each class are putting in some hard practice and there is every indication that the contest will be a close one. Although it is rather early yet to forecast the track athletic season, the prospect is anything but a gloomy one. The loss of O'Neill, Cotton, Pildain and Campbell, is of course a serious one. But already some new men are looming up on the horizon who will make worthy suc- cessots. What is needed just at present are the cross-country runs to develop some of this new material. The student-body feel assured that they have a stronger band than ever between themselves and the faculty, now, in matters athletic. It is a rather novel sensation to have a member of the august body work w~th th~ men o~ t~e campus and in the gymnasium wtth enthusta~t1c interest and common sympathy. The sensation is as novel as it is gratifying.

8 THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. . PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE 8Tl;JDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOMAN, - - Business Manager CARL HAMMER, - - - - - - - News Editor. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, L. T. BRADFORD, G. c. ROWELL, H. K. WRIGHT. TERMS: CONCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - - - - 10 Cents PARTHENON,. $1.00 per Year, in Advance ' Both Papers to one Address, $2. 50 per Year, in Advance. Address all comn1unications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas •. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. IN the freshman vocabulary just at present, the word ''sophomore \ stands for all that is un- savory, foul and offensive. In twelve months he will have us understand it as meaning that which ie ' nobly sweet and audacious.' IN another column of this paper will be found a statement of the present status of affairs of the n.ew athletic-field. It is urgently requested that under-graduates and alumni give the 1natter their immediate and sympathetic attention. The field should have been completed long ago. Eeginning with this issue a weekly statement of subscriptions will be published, together with the names of sub- scribers unless otherwise requested. LET the beginning of the new year mark the be- ginning of a new era-an era of loyal and enthusi- ~tic support to captains, managers and commit- teemen. Not that this has been entirely lacking in the past, for it has not. But now let it be lacking not at all. In many respects this is an inaugural year and the demand for combined effort in all that has to do with the wellfare of the college wa.s never greater. The concrete form of this is to subscribe as much as you can, pay what you subscribe, and then fill the measure to over- flowing with active participa.tion. . WE wish to offer the right hand of fellowship to our brothers in the class of 1901 and extend official g1·eeting. They have taken the path which, according to history has been trodden by one President of the United States, two Secre- taries of .State, two Justices of the United States Supreme Court, ten Senators, two Speakers, 130 members of the House of Representatives, 36 col- Iege presidents and ''one-fifth of the whole num- ber of judges elected to the bench of the Court of Appeals and of the Suprerne Court in New York state.\ Surely, here is inspiration to students of Union f(}r honest effort. THE opening address of President Raymond delivered in the college chapel last Tuesday morn- ing, should be carefully perused by every man in college, not once, but often. It should have a permanent place in the mental and moral furni- ture of every student at Union, for it is a terse statement of those principles that have made our beloved old college renowned. It is not so much to her statesmen, her scholars, or even to her poets that her fame is owing, although these have not been few; but it is rather to ihat vast army of her sons who have been famous in noth- ing but good citizenship. The faculty of being a man, uader circurnstances however trying, can seldom be acquired by post-g1·aduate study. No school of manhood invented by civilization c~n quite compare with the campus, the class-room and the chapel. AN effort will be made this year by the editorial boards of The Concordiensis and Parthenon to make these publications of especial interest to the older alumni and friends of the college. We shall strive to have all alumni news full and up to date, and cont1·ibutions from their pens are earnestly solicited. We trust that they )Vill use the pages

;THE CONCORDIENSIS. 9 of the college publications as freely as they did in undergraduate days, or mo1~e freeiy as the case may be. We feel that the number of alumni who could, if they ·would, enhance the literary value of the Parthenon, is a large one. Prose or verse will be greedily accepted, and the name of the author will be published only when the mss. is unaccompanied by a request to the eontrary. We trust this appeal will be heeded by undergraduate writers as well. It will not have to be repeated often, we hope, but will hold througbout the year no small place in the undergraduate and alumni mind. PRESIDENT JORDA.N of Stanford, it would seem, takes a rather extreme view of some things or per- haps the sons of our far Western ,sister -carry some things to extreme. In a recent interview Dr. Jordan is reported to have said, ''~he faculty is opposed to that form of rowdyism. known as class rushes, and f'Specially to the barba.ric custom of hazing.\ The nomenclature suggests the lariat and bowie knife. Dr. Jordan has also vested extreme powers in the student C():m.mittee that regulates undergraduate affairs-a revival of the old \vigilance committees,\ it would appear-for he gives the committee authority to virtually ' expel not only \those found guilty of specific acts of immo1·ality or dishonesty, but any whose per- sonal influence is objectionable.\ Reeven author- izes this committee ''to check e~cesses of zeal for advancement,'' as it is expected to check other excesses. Whether this is all right or all wrong, would seem to depend largely on what standard is used in guaging Stanford students. If they are held as so many persons, somewhat b·responsible and having a little world all to theinselves, very well and good. But if, on the oth€r hand, they are regarded as prospective Ame:rican citizens they should be educated under no system so un- American. WHILE the football team is working hard every day in the rain and cold, it should not be foi·got- ten by the other men in coll~ge that they have a place of equal importance to fi.U. It is as much a duty for every able bodied student to don a foot- ball suit and take part in the da.ily practice, as it is for Capta.in Crichton. himself. The amount of glory in a football captaincy and the amount of actual hardship endured, are not commensurate in the least. It is not pleasant to perform labor that a stevedore would shudder at, we admit, but when the honor and wellfare of the college are concerned who of her sons w0uld be so dis- loyal as to stop at fire 01· water~ We venture to say not one. And yet when. we ·~orne to lesser things, we find no small amount of lethargy and lack of interest. It seems as though the true sublimity of little things has never, to any great extent, taken hold of the student mind. It seems to be forgotten at times that the man who, of his own free will, comes out on the ca1n pus with the scrub and works every day, although no chances are his of making the team, is a hero. And all the more a hero because his works are soon fol·- gotton and seldom sung. We need ''rooting,\ to be sure, but more than anything else we need the spirit that makes men work. In matters like this there is nothing more inspiring than persph·ation. · Our Football SeasofJ. ·· The beginning of the college year brings with it another football season and we are all hoping that it may be a successful one. We have an excellent managetnent, a good schedule, and plenty of good n1aterial. If the fellows keep on working as they have begun, there is no reason why we cannot have an old-ti1ne '\-Vinning team. There is, however, a lot of undeveloped tnaterial atnong the students and if they will come out and practice they will greatly help the manage- ment. There are places on the team open · to every one who can play them. Even if a place should not be won, nothing helps a team so much. as a good scrub. There should be at least 30 men out every day. All the old men are back except Palmer and Blodgett, who graduated in June, and Jones, who wil1 not return until next term. The team is very strong at ends, centre and guards, but is a little weak at tackle. This can and will be remedied by good, earnest work. There will be a t·egular training table in the near future. The candidates for positions are partially as follows: Center, Cooper, Mattice ; guards, Bookhout, Scl11nitter, Thomas, Carver; tackle, Beardsley, Carver, Slack; ends, Price, Weed, Mallery, '98, Robinson; quarter, Smith, Robin- son, ~trong ; halves, Messmer, Crichton, Mallery, 1901, Sylvester; fullback, Hoxie, Messmer, Mallery. Manager Turner has announced the following schedule for the teatn : Sept. 2 5, Albany Y. M. C. A. team on the campus; Oct. 2, Hamilton college on the campus; Oct. 9, New Jersey Athletic club at Ridgefield, Albany ; Oct. r6, Laureate Boat club of Troy at Troy; Oct. 23, Syracuse university at Syracuse ; Oct. 27, Princeton university at Princeton ; Oct. 30, Rutgers college at Ridge-field, Albany; Nov. 3, Laureate Boat club of Troy on the campus; Nov. 6, Colgate University at Hamilton; Nov. 13, Buffalo Football club at Toronto, Canada; Nov. zo, Hobart college at Ridgefield, Albany.

, I 10 'THE CONCORDIENSlS. The class .of 1901 entered with a metnbership 1 , of about so. Although this is rather smaller , than in previous years, they have been sel~ected : from a much larger number of less wen prepared , applicants. The usual increase in the percen;t- • age of cla~sical students is maintained this year, and the bar and the pulpit prospectively are well The m,ovement for the new athletic field which has, beef:l under way for the past few months, is one of great importance to the college. Considerable progress has been made and the outlook is such as to warrant strong expectations of an early accomplishment of the work if the , alumni who have not yet contributed will do so represented. An alphabetical list of the names. of the Fresll- men follows : Claude Adams, Amsterdam; Roy Edwin ~..§i!l~J ohnstown ;. John Win- throp Ayrault, Fairport; Henry James Bahler, Saugerties ; Chades Joseph Bennett, Amster- datn; Lewis S. Benton, Phelps; Robert An- drew Bowden, Mont Pleasant; Horatio Jones · Brown, Schenectady; James Walton Cheese- borough, Biltmore, N. C. ; Joseph Harvey . ~~ Schenectady; Guy Bain Collier, Kinderhook ; Peter Winne Finger, Saugerti;es ; Herbert L. Fuller, Waterport; Walker MiUer ~'· Johnstown; Arthur Spencer Golden, Rensselaet·viUe ; George Racket, -·utica ; George Patrick Harran, Schenectady; Clayton J~ ~I.­ malic~,. Hudson; Wilfred Day Hodgson, Bing- ! hamton; Edward H. Keller, Schenectady; Louis Clifton ~.., Florence, S. C. ; Ernest ~haJ:rp_,_ Norfolk, Neb. ; John Anderson Laing, Andes ; Thomas Frederick Leavenwotth, Amsterdam; John Ludden, Troy; Levi Lewis Lu1nenski, Fairport; Everett Turner~~' Middleburg; John Barnard ~J!i.Ge, Middle- burg; John McNab, Troy; Neil Gilmour Med- bery, Ballston; Robert Lee Mer~inlrul., Albany; Charles P. Messner, Schenectady:; J atnes Wads- worth Miller, Johnstown; R·ussell Hubbard Nevins, Statnford, Conn. ; Charles Andrew R~!!Q.Ws, Ouray, Col.; Arthur Henry Robin- son, Brandon, Vt. ; Robert Bayard Rol;>inson, Brandon, Vt.; John G. Schumacher, Schenec- tady; William Francis Sheehan, Troy; George LeRoy Shelly, Amsterdam ; Earl Brown Slack Groton; William Purdy Smith,. Newark· Ed: win James Travis, Johnstown; Robert 'Bruce Trummond, Fairport ; Richard F. Warner, Rochester ; Charl.es Porter Wagner, Albany ; Leroy J .. Weed, B1nghamton; Wellington Eu- gen~ Wormer, Middleburg ; Thomas Herbert Wnght, Andese at an early date. All those in touch with athletic affairs, will at once see of how much value such a field will be to the college. With the present population of Schenectady, in which there are so many college men from alrnt>st every institution in the land, to be attracted to well equipped athletic grounds, the new field will of a certainty remove athletics from that depressing condition of everlasting de- ficit. If that were the only gain, it would be wo1·th a great sacrifice to obtain. But with bet- ter finances will come a great increase in our athletic powers and reputation and our name will be known at a greater distance than ever. Subsctiptions to the new athletic field : Proceeds of lecture by '' Eli P.e1·kins \ (Mel- ville D. Landon, '61).. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • $95 90 St. Clair M:cKelway, LL. D. (his special re· ·quest) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................. . An1asa. J. Parker, '63 ...................... . Dr. J. Rufus 'rryon, '58 .................... . Hon. Robert Ea.rl, '45 ..................... . Ron. Charles E. Patterson, '60 ............ . Class of '75 (through Dr. Job.n L. School- craft, treasurer) ......................•... Chester C. Bowman ....................... . Nicholas V. V. Franchot .................. . James N. Gowenlock ..................... . Andrew V. V. Raymond .................. . Harwood Dudley ......................... . De W'tt ·0 S' 'th 1 ' I llll ' t t ... I e t t t I • 1 t I t 1 e 1 t I • I • I e I Henry C. Hodgkins ........... , ........... . Truman Weed~ ! !!: •••••••••••.••••••••••••••• John L. Schoolcraft ....................... . Hon .. Warner Miller, '60 ................... . Col. Charles E. Sprague, '60 .............. . 25 00 15 00 5 00 10 00 10 00 10 00 10 00 10 00 10 00 10 00 5 00 5 00 5 00 5 00 6 00 25 00 10 00 ·Total acknowledged ...................... $260 00 ''l'otal contributions .so fa.r .................. $735 00 In the second issue after this will be published the contributions from the class of '76. Other classes will be bulletined in succeeding issues.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 'The following faculty changes for the college year, have been announced bY; President Ray- mond: Prof. 'T. S. Wright will have general direc- tion of tnathematics and physics :and will event- l:laHy fiU either the chair of. mathematics or physics when another professor has been chosen. Since much of his tir:r1e wiH be given to the teaC'hing of mathen.1atics, an assistant in physics has been provided and Nr. FrankS. Thotnpson has been appointed to the instructorship for the ~current year. Mr. Thornpson graduated frotn Princton in the class of '94, 'vith the degree of A. B., taking the ex peri n1.ental science fellow- ship in physics. He then entered the post-grad- uate department of the Engineering school at Princeton, and in June last received the degree of electrical engineer. DuTing the sumn1er months he has been employed on constructive ! work with the finn of J. G. White & Co. Under the rule of the board of trustees, Prof. J. H. Stoller has been given leave of absence for one year, for travel and study in Europe. Prof. Stoller and fatnily are now in Germany where they will remain until the beginning of the next college year. Dr. A. A. Tyler has been appointed as instructor in biology during Prof. Stoller's absence. Dr. Tyler is a graduate of Lafayette college in the class of '92, taking the degree of A. B., and was appointed Latin salutatorian, one of the highest honorary ap- pointments of his class. After graduating he was appointed instructor at Lafayette and left to take up post-graduate work in biology in Co- lunlbia university, New York city. He has just completed this special course, taktng the degree of Ph. D. last June. Dr. Tyler is eminently fitted for· the work before him at Union. Mr. John W. H. Pollard has been appointed to·the instructorship in phyisical clulture, tnade vacant by the resignation of Dr. Linhart. Mr. Pollard graduated from Dartmouth in 1894 with the degree of B. L. Throughout his whole col- · lege course he was pron1inent in athletics, play- ino- on the football team and the track team. b After taking his degree at Dartmouth, he entered Dr. Sargent's Harvard school of pl1ysical cul- ture and after graduating fro·rn this school, began his work as a teacher in the west. Mr. Pollard is full of enthusiasm over his special subject and will be .a great help to the athletic interests of the ·coHege. The new instructor in civil engineering to take the place of Mr. Cummings,, is Mr. Ed- ward B. Kay, a gt:aduate oftheR:ensselaer Poly- technic institute, of Troy, in the class of '83. He was instructor in the same institution for two years after graduation, when he went into pro- fessional work and has been engaged for the last tw·elve years in many important engineering · enterprises, especially in the west, such as the drainage system, the inclined railway, the Waldo Park railway and the drainage system of the Armour Packing Co., Kansas City, Mo. In the east he has been connected with. the waterworks system in several towns in Pennsylvania. His long experience in practical work adds greatly to the efficiency which he showed as a teacher during his engagement at the institute in Troy. The important position as instructor in elec- tri.cal engineering has been gh\\en to Dr. Byron B. Brackett, who graduated from Syracuse uni- versity in 1890 and from Johns Hopkins in r897 with the degree Ph. D. Dr. Brackett has had several years' experience as a teacher, but con1es directly to us from Johns Hopkins, where he has been doing special work for three years in electrical engineering. Under his direction it is confidently expected that this new and impor- tant part will grow rapidly. Mr. H. K. Webster has been appointed to the instructorship in the department of rhetoric and logic, held last year by Dr. Reeves. Mr. Web- ster is a graduate of Han1ilton and has shown Inarked ability both as a writer and speaker. Firgt \oll~~e JT\~~tiQ~. The first college meeting of the year was held last Monday morning in the chapel, and favor- . able reports were made on every department of student effort. A pleasant feature of the oc-: cas ion was a brief address from Mr. Pollard. At the meeting next Monday mor~ing the question of a geneaal honor ~ystem wtll come up for adoption.

12 ........._ADVERTISEMENTS~-- )'Jew ceonmittees flppoiQted. The following standing committees of the faculty have be~n appointed for the ensuing year: Education and Curriculum-Professors Rip- ton, Whitehorne, Wells, Perkins, Ashmore, Truax, Wright., Hoffman, Landreth, Stoller, Hale and Prosser. Librat·y-Professors Landreth, Truax and Ashmore. Catalogue- Pr<>fessors Hale and Ashmore and Instructor O?dyke. Scholarships-Professors Ripton and Winans and Instructor Bennett. Athletics-PrvfEssors Mosher and Perkins and Instructor Pollard. Rules-Professors Ashmore, Wright and Hoffman. · Preparatory Schools-Instructors Bennett, Opdyke, McKeDzie, Brackett, Kay, Pollard, Tyler, Webster and Thompson. Senior Class-Professors Hale, Landreth and Winans. Junior Class-Professors Perkins and Mosher and Instructor B-ennett. Who is .•. C. GOETZ? The only Ta.ilol\ in Schenectady who imports goods direct 1rom England. Just reeeived a large as~o-J.tm.ent for Fall and Winter. CALL A.lfD SEE THEM. 3 Central Arca<le, SCHENECTADY,N. Y. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- Sophomore Class-Professors Whitehorne and Pepper and Instructor ·Opdyke. Freshman Class-Professors Hoffma·n and Walker and Instntctor Thorn pson. CH.APEL MONITORS. Senior Class--Pt~O-fessor Hoffman. Junior Class-Instructor Opdyke. Sophomore Class--Ililstructors McKenzie and Bennett. Freshman Class-Instructors Tyler and Thompson. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get .my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. a. E. BO'T'Hf\M, 214 GLIN1'0N ST. Students' Trade Solicited ! Star~ Restaurant, R. MORRISON. . . . . • 'E>PY and ~team eieanin~ and Dysin~ Wo1J(s. ME Pt L 1 1 C K ET 8 Alteratiom• and Repairinc- a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-claMs work guaranteed. A. n 1 F 0 -.::::l ch 3 0 0 ~ Goods ca.lled :lo:r and delivered free of charge. ~~ ..a;;v ~: • -~ d~GO:B RINDFLEISGH, ... • 18 Central A.rca.de. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 144 So. O'entre St., Open until~ P. 111:. Work done at .short notic~. SOHENBJ'OTADY, N. Y.

-ADVERTISEMENTS ... -- 13 5~~ f{ew fiul~ for <eoHe~e fT\~~tiQ~~. At a meeting held June 17th, the Faculty adopted the following regulations : · 1. On Monday m·ornings, chapel services shall be held at 8 o'clock,. ao recitations being sched· uled for that hour, and the portion of the hour remaining after the service shall be given to the students for a college m:eeting each week. z. The recitations displaced by the college n1eeting shall be put at any convenient time during the day. 3· No part of the scheduled hours of recita- tion, except as provided by this faculty rule, shall be given for a college meeting for any purpose whatsoever. ~musemeQts. The attractions to appear at the Van Curler soon include Jerome's comedians in \A Jay in New York'' Friday of this week, and the Eng- lish cotnedienne Bessie Bonehill and a company of 50 people in the operatic comedy ''Little Monte Cristo\ Saturday, Sept. 25. On .Mon- day, Sept. 27, the famous Wilbur Opera company with Susie Kirwin will commence a week's engagement, appearing in a repertoire of standard operas. f~5f..5> ~ t.~~~ouTn~~s ,r '-...~ and other cut flowers '\ conatantly on hand ••••• nr .Q RUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING- CO., • • • THE LEADING ••• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 815 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. ..&.. G. HERRICK. .. HIGH GRADE SHOES .. --AT LOWEST PRICES.- • W.- L,. E. CURLEY, 5t-4 F1JLTON ST., TROY, N. Y, Largest IannJaeturers in America . • . . , . . . or Eagilleers' and Surveyors' Instruments. Also dea.lers in Drawing IuBtruments and Materials. ~HAYLE & S®N, ~ ----C.-- ............. __ .. _......... \ * E!iCiRJ.IVE~J, * ..-----ALBANY, N. Y. E. Lee Hegeman, 19 M. S. S. C., representing • HU1EERT BROS. & CO.~ • of New York .. DEALERS rN ALL KINDS OF SPORTING GOODS . Students can <>btain the best quality at the lowPst figure. E. C. HARTLEY, \ The Union St. Grooer.\ Flne~ssortment of Cigars, '.robacco, Pipes, &c. Sa:r-at()g-3Mlneral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larra..bee's Cakes and Crackers • 246 State St. p .A.TTOlf & HALL. Telephone i38. 601-608 UNION STREET.

14: -ADVERTISEMENTS.- Yates' Boat House. The largest and best equipped ln the State. Excel- lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with. house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. COAL~ u!IIIJ!'?'EPr ..,., Tke Celebrated D. L. & ,w. Coal. for sale by VEE[)ER BROS., No. 424 STATE STREET. ]A. JL seR}lFF0RB, (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), A PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Supplies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for popular :prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 496 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' Colle~e, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94: to '97 l3J11\f.['YTE ~ J;JE1lE)\!FEGE\, o- wnolesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL af}d WeeB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hair, Flour, 1306, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Bay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St .• and ].,ertilizers. Schenectady, N.Y. Wade & Co., FL0F{ISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE,-......__ .HATTER AND FURRI:ER. .Also, Tr·unks, Bags, Suit Cases, Gloves, Umbrellas, Oanes, Etc. 227 S'T A1'E SfR E E1'. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE 0 (f) {jJ {f) (f) [!] No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the 'V .ASHBURN King of Mandolins, Hui.tars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 mile~. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. .... __ THOMAS HAS THE BEST. UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104:-106 Wall Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

THE CON'OORDIENSIS. 15 l'ASC Bf.ILL I Supplies. Spalding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for 5amples and special rates. Every requi- !!ite for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Summer Sports free. '' The Na1ne the Guarantee.\ A. G. SPALDING & BROS., NewY~:u~icago, . WIENCKE'S---.-... I)orrtEu GE~MAN IA AND r{ESTitAU~ANTit. BILJ...~IARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty :Sts. BRIAR AMBER AND ' Pipes. MEERSCHAUM THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S CEN'TRAL PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Tailor. No. 23'1•tate St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD lJ. FRE:NCH. l:fNIBN eOLLESE BBOK EXeJ1JlNSE. All College Texts, Draughting Instru- ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary :ollege supplies. PICKFORD BROS., U nlon Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTRY. ~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, -OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Co1nmission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs aRd Fruits. NEARES'T HOTEL 1\0 OPERA HOUSE---.. l)otel Slover, RATES $1.25 PER DAY. $3. 00-TWENTY -ONE MEALS-$3.00 W. H. SLOVER, PROPR. 141 So. Centre St. . SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

:' j I 16 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- Jdall Jlasfriotts attd II abl[its ~r: READY FOR YOUR INSPECTION AT JOHNS0N'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 MAIDEN .LANE, . ALBANY, N. Y. Intercollegiate Bureau cor ~ gAP~, goWN~ AND HOODS. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELJ\.J AND LEONABD, 472-478 B1•oadway, ALBANY, N.Y. S. E. ~~~~EN, ~F?.., Men's . . . . Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. f!_~ES ... RgSI!S, GUT FLOWERS FURNISHED A.'T' 8HOR'f N·OT'I~G·E. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y . fl. e. AUSTIN ENGRAV.INGco., • •• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. . F. A. VanVranken. F. VanVranken •. •· IMF>O~JitiNG <9AILO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL S'r., Notman Building. ALBANY, N.Y .. P.F.McBREEN. R. T I M 0 I R, ~~====-___,.­ BOOKS, FINE 8'T'A1'10NERY, PIC'TURE FRAMING, 218 William St., New York· WALL PAPERS, Errc. AL::Av:v PRINTER STEAMSHIP AGENCY .•.•• 383 State St., Schenectady, N, Y. WHITTLE BROS., ~FLORISTS~ CUT FLOWERS DELIVERED OR SHIPPED PROMPTLY . ... Made pieces carefully attended to. No. PEJARL ST., ALBANY, N. Y .. , READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL----- HEAD- TO-FOOT. RLBF\NY., N. Y, ~SAUL.

