, Concordiensis,. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. DECEMBER 3, 1897. No .. ·1 o.

UNION COLLE·GE ;A;NDB!IW V, V. IAYMOND, :D. D., LI.. D., President, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading t0 the Degree of A. B.-The usual <Jlassical ·Ceurse, including French and German. After So:phe- more year the work is larg,ely eiective. 2.. Course Leading to the Degret·H~f B. S.-'The modern languages are sl!lbstituted for the ancient and the amount ·of Mathematics and English studies is increased. After t.11e Sophomore year a. large list of electives is .offered. 3. Cotuse Leading to tile Degree of Pll. B.-This diners from the . .A. B. course chiefly in the omis.,ion of :Greek and the substitution therefor of additional work in modern 1a.niuages .and science. 4. General Course Leading to tile Degree ef B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineerin.g education, including the fundamental principles of all special branchea ef .the profession, a knowledge of both French and German. and a full course .in English. 5. Sanitary Co1.n·se Leading to the Degree ef B. E.- This differs frem Course 4: in substituting special work in Sanitary Eniineerin\ for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.~ This differs from Course 4: in substituting special werk in Elee- tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in eo-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Enginee:ring Leading ·to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year ·Offered to iradua.tes of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are a.l!o special courses in Analytical Chemistry, KetaUurp and Natural History. For catalogues or for special informat1 on address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Alb&ny Hedical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years l!ltrictly graded course. In- struction• by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and .practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantages excellent. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, S5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25 ; dissectin~ fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Re~istrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A.lba.ny :Law SehoQl.-Tbis department i~ located ~t · A.lbany! near the State Capitol. lt occupies a building wholly deTotea to its use. Th.e course is one year, divided into two ;aemesters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. \For e&talo&\Ues or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dea.n . .ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Jb:erciae1 held in .Albany Medical Collere. Annual lecture term commencu llonda.:r, Oct. 5. For cata.Iorue and informa- ·dnaddreas D1il BA.UN VAN ..l.X:EN, Ph. G., ~eeretary, :=Hamilton St. ·Gentleme11 • • • Buy Your .Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and 1nost modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium. in New York State. QUIRI''S SHOE STORE, 311 STATE ST., COR. WALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices., BONBONS -AND- CH OCO',LAT:ES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhc linc6t §igar~ and the lure6t of Jjrug~ AT L'YON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. C9HE ... €DISON Q011lEU, ...._._.-Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, and the Largest a11d Best Apjot'ntetl Hotel in the city. .Headquarters for Commerct'al Travellers and Tourists 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIE1'0R,

The CoJl.cordie11sis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER 3, 1897. No. 10. Last (ia file a ?5ri u fT\ pI]. Union's football season came to a tnost fitting close on Saturday, Nov. zo, when the wearers of the garnet gained a signal victory over I-Io- bar:t. The game was a great struggle from start to finish, and the result may be laid to no one indi- vidua:l nor to any particular thing: Union won the game because of the conscientious work of every man on the team, the untiring zeal of Prof. Pollard, the faithful work of the second eleven, and the hearty support and encouragement of every man in college. The Hobart eleven went into the gatne with confidence. They had, two days before, defeat- ed the Laureates; they were fully aware that Union had not been playing for two weeks and that the team was in poor physical condition ; and they expected that their trick plays would win for thetn the game. Union came to the field with a remetnbrance of last year's defeat by Hobart, and a detennination to change it for a Union victory for 1897. The game had been so much heralded that on the side lines was the largest crowd of the sea- son. The students were there in force and the new Union flags added much to the enthusiasm. The storm of the day before had left on the campus two inches of snow which, after the gatne had been in progress a short time, was conve1ted into a dirty-looking tnusb which ma- terially hindered the work of both teatns. The best playing for Hobart was done by L. Carr and Dennison. Individual mention of Union's players is difficult, as every man on the team played his best. The most brilliant work, how-ever, was done by Captain Crichton,Wilson and MaBery, 1901. At half past two the Hobart team trotted out upon. the snowy gridiron and began to warm up. They were followed by Union, greeted with cheer after ch.eer. At 2 :45 the referee's whistle sounded and the two teatns took their positions, Hobart choosing the north goal and the kick-off. ·Folger put th.e ball in play and the first down was called on Union's 20-yard line. On the line-up Crichton was sent through the line for four yards, Wilson through right tackle for five, and Crichton again for fifteen. Hobart took the ball on downs but neith,er of their plays gained a yard and t11:ey were forced to kick. Union broke through Hobart's line, and Messmer was next sent around the right end twelve yards. Union then began a steady advance toward the north goal which Hobart was powerless to stop. Crichton, MaUery, and Wilson were i11 turn given the ball and each was able to make from four to seven yards without the least difficulty. By these plays the ball was brought to the 8-yard line. Crichton was given the ball and by a pretty run around the left end scored a touch- down. Hoxie kicked a goal. On the line-up Hobart kicked off and Crich- ton carried the ball to Union's 25-yard line be., fore being ,downed. The required five yards was not coveTed and Hoxie kicked thirty yards. Hobart then tried several trick plays without the least success, and Union took the ball. On the first play Crichton encircled Watson's end for twenty-five yards and Mallery was sent for three consecutive gains of five yards each. Hobart got the ball on downs and for some time sent their backs through Union's line at will. At length they were forced to kick and Hoxie returned their punt forty-five yards. Hobart then made eight yards around the left end, and kicked. At this point time was called with the ball on Union's 30-yard line. Union opened the second half with a kick-off to Hobart's 5-yard line. Hobart then took a decided brace, going down the field at a fast pace. Tilne and again the Hobart backs plowed through our Hne and around our ends, the great-

I . I ! 4 est gain being a run of fifteen yards around : U . ' ' Messmer's end. The ball was now on n1on s · zs~yard line and the signal was given for a place : . kick of a goal from the field. The kick was ' blocked and the ball caught by Mallery, 'or,who · ran eight yards before being downed. On the ~~ side lines the students redoubled their cheering . but the yelling stopped when i:t was seen that . the umpire had not only not allowed the eight- : yard run, but had given flobart the ball as w~ell : as ten ya.rds for alleged offside play by Uni,on. Hobart then tried another place ki,ck of a field . goal trom the 15-yard line, but the pass was a : poor one, quarterback Teiier fumblied, and it · was at last Union's ball. Crichton, Wilson ~nd . Mallery in turn all made good gains and the • bail was then given to Maliery four times in ' succession, the plucky runner gaining eighteen · yards by the four dovyns. At this point vVilson was obliged to leave the game owing to an · injured leg. His place was :filled by Fenton, who made a hole for a five-yard gain on the :first play. Mallery then made two runs of ten and . eight yards around Reynolds' end; Chrichton, five yards more through tackle; and Mallery, fifteen yards through the line on two downs. The ball was now 28 ym-ds from the Hobart line; it was given to Crichton, who, guarded well by interference encircled Watson's end and scored the second touchdown. No goal was kicked. The teams lined up again but after a few moments' play, time was called with the ball near the centre of the field. Score: Union, 10; Hobart, o. The lineup of the teams fo Hows: HOBART, (0). UNION, (10). Reyno Is .............. left end ............. Messmer Lockwood .......... left tackle .... Wilson, Fenton Sanford ............. left guat·d ............. Black Snell. ................. centre ........... Eookbout Read ............... right gua1·d ........... Thomas Carr ................ right tackle ............. Poole Watson, Capt ........ right end ........ MaBery, '98 Teller .............. quarter ba.c'k ............ Smith L. Carr ............ left half hac}{ .... Mallery, 1901 Dennison, Smith .. right half back ....... Crichton / Folger ............... full baclt .............. Hoxie Touchdowns, Crichton (2). Goal from touch- down~, Hoxie. Referee-umpire, Mr. Evans. Um- pire-referee, Mr. Messmer. Linesmen and time- I keepers, Messrs. Plum,m,er, Dobart;and Vrooma,n., Union. Time of game, two twentytninute ha~ves. ELECTION OF C.APT AIN SMITH. Irnm~ediately after the ga,me the team pro- ~ceeded to the chapel, where next yea.r's ,captain was elected. The selection was a unanimous one for William J. Smith, '99, of Waterford. \ Bill\ has played :qaarter back on fh:e 'Varsity for three years and has shown him:se:lf to be a level-headed football player, well capable of managing the team. After the selection had been announced the enthusiasm of tbe students was r.edoub[ed. Capta,in Crichton, Prof. Pol- lard, and Captain-elect Smith were raised to the shoulders of the c~rowd and paraded around the campus. 'o.ll~Qe Editors <:oQU€1]~,. The annual convention of the New York State Inter-collegiate Press Association was this year held at Elmira college on the 19th of November. Owing to a series of inadvertencies representatives fro1n Union were unable to attend. In the afternoon interesting papeYs were read and topics of interest to college editors followed by informal discussion. At that time also the annual election of officers was held and resulted as follows: President, Walter L. Mason of the Colgate Madisonensis ; vice-president, Elon Gilbert Galusha of the Rochester Campus; secretary and treasurer, Hope Mason of the We Us College Chronicle. The Sytacuse University Tribune was ad- mitted to the association. In the evening a banquet was tendered the visitors at which the Elmira edit<>rs proved themselves charming hostesses. The Elmira College Sibyl was selected as the ~ssociation official organ, and it was decided that the next 1neeth:1g will be held at Colgate university, Hamilton, N. Y. The Yale corporation has voted to estabHsh the degree of master of science in the Sheffield Scientific school.

presideryt :f1aymof)d OQ Football. After the chapel exercises of 1~uesda y ~m-orn-. ing Nov. 23, Dr. R:a.ytnond spoke of the suc- cessful football seasot:t that has just ended. He declared with spirit that great credit should be given Capta·in Chrichton, to wh.ose untiring enetgy and perseverence so tuuch honor for the college had been won. He spoke of the good feeling that existed and the election without opposition of Captain Stnith of next year's teatn,, showing that he had the support of the ·whole team. J\!Janager Turner was praised for the interest he had taken in rnaking the season an honorable one, free from all uncleanliness. Dr. Rayrnond said it was hardly necessary for hirn to speak of the coach ; that every one knew how faithfully Prof. Pollard had labored to tnake a creditable football teatn. The fact that the tea n'l had gained in strength since the o,pen- ing of the season was sufficient proof of Prof. Pollard's ability. The spirit of the student body was cuinpared with the spirit of fonner years. He said that there had been less boasting of what they were going to. do, and more zeal displayed by the students cotning out to line up against the 'var- sity. He added that the daily practice against a strong scrub had been an itnportant factor for the creditable showi ag n1ade throughout the season. He advocated the plan for obtaining football material for next year. The idea of sending out students to the preparatory schools for the pur- pose of bringing men to Union was cotnt11enda- ble, but the students should be very careful to talk Union college particular! y, and get men to enter because of the college itself, and not merely to play footbalL The tenth annual :reunion and dinner of the Unio11 College Alurnni association. of New York will take place Thtn·sday evening, December 9, at the Savoy. A large attendance is expected' and the occasion vvill undoubtedly surpass' in brilliancy all that have preceded it. Last year . the sophomo,re quade~ was present to furnish music for the dinner., and it is probable that there will be some student .representation this year. 5 ~eGe f) t 'Cibra ry p. d di ti of) 5. ,, 'Electricity and Magnetism,\ E. T. Hous- ton ; '' Natural Law in the Spiritual World,\ Henry Drummond; \Mechanics of Engineer- . ing and of Machinery,\ 2 vols., J. and Herman G. Wieshack ; '' Guide to the Study of Alneri- can History,\ Channing and Hart ; ''Messages and Papers of Presidents of U. S.\ vol. V., R~ichardson ; '' Comparative Administrative Laws,\ 2 vols., Goodnow; \Constitutional History and Governrnent of U. S. ,\Judson S. Landou; \Municipal Problen1s,\ Frank J. Goodnow; \Municipal Horne Rule,\ Frank J. Goodnow; \City Governrnent in the U. S.,\ A~fred R. Conkling. f'(eeroloQy. Dr. Abrahatn Flanders, '48, died Novetnber 10, at his hon1e at Morristown, N.J. He was born at Canaan, New Hampshire, in r827. After graduating frotn Union, he studied medi- cine and practiced in Boston until r884, when he retnoved to Morristown. In r 890 he suffered a stroke of paralysis and was a partial invalid for the rernainder of his life. He was a metnber of several medical societies of thi5 country, of the Italian Medical society, counsel in this country for a medical college in Gennany, the author of several medical works, and a frequent contribu- tor to the 111edical journals. fniiJor Topios. The freshman class in Greek have com- pleted the \Story of Achilles.\ The fir~t. Junior·· hop of the season will be held this evening in Yates' Boat house. Every- one sh'Ould attend. ~ .,. fChat~les A. Burbank, '93, has recently ac- cepted the chair of mathernatics in Rust un i- versi ty, Holly Springs, Miss. The final exan1ination in solid geornetry was held last Tuesday afternoon in the chapel. In place of geometry, the freshman clas5 will pur- \sue the study of algebra for the ren1ainder of the term.

'I 'i I i I . I . ·I \! ,' i ' 'I j! I :; !; ' , I I 1: !i 6 'THE CONOORDIENSTS. THE c~o:NCORDIEN.SIS. l\U8LISHKD EVERY WEEK DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD :OF EDITORS. PERLEY PooRE SHH::EHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief ' CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager ~ CARL HAMMER, '98, - - - News Editor ' JoHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOC:IATE EDITORS . F. R. CHAMPION, ''99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G-. C. ROWELI~, '99, If. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1'900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. w. p .A.IGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: Co::NCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in Ad vance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address all comntunications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Cha5. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. NOTICE TO CONTRIBUTORS. All copy intended for insertion in the Con- cordiensis must \be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDAY n()on. THE Daily Union in a recent article on football sajd editorially, \ So far as Union college is con- cerned, football has been played in a gentlemanly manner by the students, during this and previous seasons.\ NEXT Friday night in the Van Curler opera house will be given. the first concert of the season SoMETHING that should appeal to the students frotn motives both selfish and philanthropic is the extreinely well chosen lec·ture course, notice of which is given in another co!I.U:mn. The first en· tertainn1ent oecurs this :Saturda.y night and if tbe general ·Concensus of opinion as voiced by the New York press be criterion, the at·traction will be of greatest interest. Miss Herford, it seems, well merits tl11e a~most unlimited praise her nlono- 1ogues have of l1ate been l~eceiv:ing. THE college is to be congratulated on the choice of the tearn foT next year's footha1l captain. 1\'Ir~ Smith has ·worked hard on the gridkon and in the class room for the past three years and has proven himself a rn an of marked ability. He is a hard, sure player and, what is of more irnportance, an excellent general. He is a captain to con1mand the respect ()f eve,ry Inen1ber of his tean:1 and to win the best efforts fron1 every in- dividual p1ay€r. Undet· his leadership the pros- pects for the '{)8 season can be considered but little short of brilliant. Now that tile football season is over we n1ay in- dulge in a Ht·tle self-gratulation without fear of having to eat the proverbial cro\v at an early future date. Not that ·we eveT were greatly con- strained by soch a fear, but then, disappointments have occurred. :But it is a fact, r1evertheless, that not a solitary disappointinent of the football sea- son has rellJained long unleavened by decisive victories. To the n1i.nds of many, though, there has been sornething beside the winning score to make this season a happy one, and that is the splendid manner in which the team has conducted itself. In victory or defeat the 'Varsity has never ceased to be an honor to the G-arnet. Captain Odenton is universally pronounced one of the best captains the tearu has had in years. His personal :magnetism and his splendid examples of courage, dash and plu.ck have been a constant inspiration to his men. The additional loss of Hoxie, Bookhout, Thornas and Closs, all of them by the musical organjzation. The concert will star men, will 1nean lots of hard labor for the surpass anything of the kind ever given in Sche- nectady. It should be the occasion for a crowded house. 'Varsity of '98 Thes~ 1nen n1ay at least know that neither by faculty, students nor alumni are their services to Union unappreciated.

:THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 T~e Foot :Ball 8easoiJ. The U ni,oil 'eollege :football seasen which was brought to such a sucoessful close or'l Saturday, Nov. zo, was in m~any ways the tnost remark- able ev:er experienced by wearers ·of the garnet. When college opened in Septetnber the pros- pects were far from hr,ight. 'The freslunen material was sadly in need of systetnatic develop- ment and Mr. Pollard was forced to devote the ·early part of the training to teadhing the funda- mental ruditnents of the gatne. When the teatn was prepared for hard prac- tice a scrub of sufficient size was wanting. In- stead of loud exhortations fron1 t1re captain and manager at chapel meetings a new schetne was tried successrully. Every n1orning Captain Crichton posted a bulletin outl~ining the needs .of the teatn and the scrub was soon organized .and efficient. Ten days after college opened the team had developed wonderfully and surpt·ised even thetn- selves by defeating RidgeHeld on the can1pus 6 to 4· The Albanians were a hea. vy teatn cotn- posed of forn1er college playersand this victory instilled entbusiatn into both tl1e team and its supporters. Still further encouragement c.an1e to Union on Oct. 2 when the strong Hatnilton tean1 was tied 4 to 4· Union was a lighter but far superior team. The following Saturday, U n i~H' s reverses be- gan. She vvas defeated 16 to 4 by theN~ J. A. C. at Albany in a hard gatn·e against great odds. Then on Oct. 16 the defeat by the Laureates r6 too, nearly crushedevery student's spirit. However, the sorry defeat was mitigated the san1e day by the ~crub whi d1 tied C. L. I. o too. Then came two n1ore bad defeats; one at Buffalo, z6 to o, the other at Syracuse, 40 to o. But Captain Crichton never fo1- a motnent lost ·confidence in the abilities of the teatn and Manager Turner at once corrected or denied any adverse reports concerning d1e team. October 30 detnonstrated tlle ability of a Union teatn to extricate itself frorn the depths of defeat. She won fron1 Rutgers at Albany by a score of ro too. Every student assutned a rnore satisfied countenance. The following W ednes- day she defeated Laureate, 6 to o, the boat~tnen having defeated Union two weeks before r6 too. This was a very hard gatne and crippled several of Union's best pilaye~·s, but it served its greatest purpose in showing fast and steady de- veloptnent. A few days of light train~ing fol- lowed by two weeks or hard work brought thern to a stage of perfection which made thetn the victors over Hobart by a score of ro to () on Nov. 20. Thus closed one of the finest seasons of ,foot- bali for Union with few but profitable defeats. The ren1arkable ease with which the tearn re- covered from defeat won for it wide reputa~tion. The last gatne on the carnpus was witnessed by many Schenectadions of 1neans and influence who took deep interest in the game and play- ers, and who asserted their intentions of sup- porting college athletics hereafter. This latter fact will reap innnense benefit to the teams in the future for the lack of interest on the part of tl1e townspeople has long been a matter of cotnplaint. The 1nanagen1ent also found it possible to collect admission fron1 the students. The members of the team are worthr of columns of praise for their bravery and courage, often playing a star garne when in disabled con- dition. The season, as a whole, is an honor and ct-eJi t to Union. The victory at Utica last spring, the recent football season and the inevitable success of the baseball team next spring are destined to place Union in the front rank of eastern colleges. \ lmportal)t Gift to Cibrary. President Ravn1ond is in receipt of a letter J froa1 Ex-Governor Alonzo B. Cornell ~lnnounc- ing a donation to the library of bound V()lumes ofthe New York Daily Titnes fron1 r86o to date. This file of papers is altnost invaluable and the addition is of greatest itnportance. Cheeseborough, 1901, spent Thanksgiving day with friends in Ttoy. •

l: t '' ~!I I, 'I 'l II , :I , I 8 ----ADVERTISEMENTS.------ U[]iOf} ft~l)ds if] <eourt. An irnportant case involving over a quarter of a tniHion dollars in which Union College and the Aibany Law school have interests nt stake as beneficiaries t:t nder its tenns, catne up for argurnent in the AppeHate Division of the supren1e court at Albany. 'I'he title of the case is David F. Dobie, individually, and as ex·ecutor, etc., et al., respondents, agt. Etntnett Ann:.. strong and another, appellants. Justice Lan- don was disqualified from sitting as he is a trustee of Union College. The lawyers in the case were preparing to start the argurnent when Justice Herrick, who was conning over the brief, discovered that the Albany Law school was a beneficiary under the provisions of the wiH. As he is one of the trustee~ of the law school this deba1Ted hitn frotn sitting in judg- ment on the case as well and he so infonned his associates. Under the existing state of affairs the case had to be stricken fro1n the calendar and transferred to the Fourth Department, as the court cannot sit with less than four justices. -Daily Union. \Who is .•• C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who irnports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. IN'SUR.A.lfC.E .• EVERY DESCRI'PTIO.N, :8. C:LE.VELAN:D SLOAN~ 424 STATE :S·':r.REET. When in want of Sandwiche_s by the dozen or hundred, caU and get tny pric€s. Also Boiled Ham, Pi~irCoffee and Mi:lJ\. G. E. BOT' HAM, 214 :Gt_,l NTON ST. I • EUROPEA..:N •• 110TEL AN~ Rf:S'T ~(JR~HT,~ Broa.d way and 1\faiden Lane, ALBANY,N.Y. - . .. tlENTLEMEN ONLT. 250 ROOMS., I • . • Ladies Restauran-t Attached • . . • I .. 3 Central Arcade, SOHENECTADY,'N. Y. WILLIAM H .. KEELER, Pt-o:p. ANNE:X-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- tltT'Y and pteam eleanin~ and k)1ein~ Wol'~S. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-clas;s work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJAGOB RINDFLEISCH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. I I I-ll G H G R A D;E :s H 0 E 8 I. Open until 9 P. M. Work done at short notice. ----A.T LOWEST PR.lCES.---- 245 states.t.. PAT':fO:N & HALL ..

-ADVERTISEMENTS.------ Cib~ary _A-id Ecyt~rtaiQmeQtS. A splendid ~course of entertainments in aid of the Schenectady Free L.ibrary has been arranged, the first entertaintnent of which comes off Sa:tur- day night in the State Street Methodist church. It is a rare opportunity for the students to hear som:e of the best talent now on the A,m,erican platfonn. The attractions and dates are as follows: Dec. 4, M~iss Herford-Original Monologues; Dec. 16, F. Marion Crawford-Lecture on Italian Life and Art; Jan. 17, Anthony Hope -Readings; Jan. 27. Louis Fagan-Illustrated Lecture on the Curiosities of the British Museum. The first tbree entertainments will be held in the State stJ·eet Methodist church and the last in the First Refor~med church. The freshtnan essays for. the fall term are all completed. Organized 1858. Incot~orated. J K The largest membership of L H E ... AN 0 ~· LEIN, any musical organization · oms INK Lnl ' Director. in Albany. Manager. lOTH REGT. MILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, Hamilton, Cornell, Williams, Middlebury etc. Furnished 50 men for State Ba:ll at .Armory, A.lbauy, Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddings Balls, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Adclress, LOUIS F. HINKELMAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240, \ 75 State St., Albany. I~5!E.~ ~ ~dll~~dl1Tll(O)INJ5 ~ ~ and other cut flowers '\ constantly on hand. • • . • en • GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. POPULAR FLORISTS. CHRYSANTHEMUMS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. SO NORTH PEARL STREET. ALBANY, N.Y. 514 FULTON :ST., TROY, N. Y, · Largest ~Manufacturers iu Amerlca . . . . . . . of Engineers' a.nd Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Drawing Iustruinents and Materials. ~tf Jl YLE ~& S0N, ~ .............................................. \ * E!1$•RAVEKJ, * ~--ALBANY, N. Y. TI-lE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELE'VA.TORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and lTpw:ards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. 8. D. WYATT~ CO., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St. Grocer.'' Fine assortment ()f Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &e. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. • • (' • -------L. D. TELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.

' ~ ,, I '! ' ,, :I il il i: :I II :, ,I I I i I 1! i 'II :! :1 : II i ll , I, ,, ;I I I I i \ I ~ l >1. \ ,\. ':! :, 'I 'II ··'I .; i I /, ' ! I I I I ,, .j :I ' II I ,, ! 'I ,. !• :I I Jl l: II 'I II il ' I! I !I ljl ' ! ,. ,. \I ,I 'i ' li I!J . I }I ,! ' I, ll ,, t ~ i il I:· I I. i , I I l: : '\I i ', j! •' . 1: :\ ·. i· 'j; ' 'I i II''· I:: I ' 'I ; I 1•1 10 -.:.--;.·.ADVERTISEMENTS.~ Yates' Boat Hol~·se. The largest and best :equipped in the State. . Excei- lent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Oniy, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ·c~oAL----s•r·.-·..,...- • The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal. for .sale by v.EED E R BR08., No. 424 .STATE STREET. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton}, A PHOTOGRAPHER, 1::. and dealer in Cameras and Photo:graphic Suppl'ies. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for pnpular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GiosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 4:96 Broadway, AL:BANY, N.Y. Telephone 482. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94: to '97 l3.r.t~rfYTE ~ klE1l'E]'i!~E·~E(, • - · Wholesale and Retan Dealers in .... eort L aQd WeeB Lime, Cement, Plaster, Hai·r, Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Stra-w 209 and 211 Dock St •. and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. Wade & Co., FL0ftiSTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE,-~ HATTER AND· FURR:tE.R. Also, TTunks,. Bags, Suit Cases, Gloves, U'lnbrellas, Oanes, Etc. 227 S'f A'fE ST·R:E·E'T'. At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE [!] w {jJ w w [!] No. 15 North Pearl St., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the W .ASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The C:lloicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l.'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered.. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ...-...-._THOMAS HAS THE B:EST. EMBOSS ED _,,,,illl,l.lll' UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, • • NEW AND HANDSOME DIES . CHAS. BURROWS PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALEANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 Supplies. Spa]ding League l3aH, Mits, Masks; etc. Managers should send for. samples and special rates. :Eve.ry requi- site for Tennis, 6-olf,, Cricket, Track and Field., Gymnasium Equipm:ents and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring .and Summer Sports free. ''The Nan1e the /G-uarantee . \ A. G. SPALDI:ft6 & BROS., NewYWtil~icago, I)o1i1EI.t GE~MANIA AND ~ESJ11AU~ANT11. BILLIARDS, POOL A.ND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINES'l' LINE IN TOWN Arr W EBBER·'8 GENI'RAL PHARMACY, Co&. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Mercha1~t Ta,ilor. No. 237 State St., SOHENEOTA.» Y, :N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. tfNIBN eOLLE6-E B®OK ·EXeJi}lN6:E. Atl College Texts, Draughti ng lnstru ;ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils amd all necessary :ollege supplies. .PICIKFORD ·BROS., :union Manket DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTR'I. ~{}arne in season. 'l,elephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRE'TT STS. ~\riedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retai i FISH, OYSTERS A-ND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Connnission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., ... THE LEADING ... ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel B-uilding-. A. G. HERRICK. UNI·ON. RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3 .. Prompt Service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached- Table Board $3.50 Per We.ek.

I . I' \I 1:1 • 12 -------ADVERT1SEMENTS.-- THE• ONLY A FL,ORISTS: IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses,. and run a :first-class store. i i: i' \ i: i WHITTLE BROS.: ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. ·' THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. fl. 8. AUSTIN ENGRAVINGCO., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Hlustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a .Specialty. S. E. Ni~~~EN, _g~., Men's . . . . Furnishing Goods.· Sole agent for HANAN & SON MEN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 ]rfaiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. -·- - --- ---- P.F.McBREEN IJall Jlas~i,otts alfd Jlab~ics READY F'OR YOUR INSPECTION AT JOHNSON'S, THE PoP·ULAR TAILOR. F. A. Van Vranken. 35 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. INTERCOLLEGIA'rE :B'O'REA'C' FoR CAPS, GOWNS & HOODS Illustrated Manual on application .. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL & LEONARD, 472-4:78 B'way. A.LJ3.ANY, N. Y. F. VanVranken. VAN V RF\ N KEN BROS., lMPOf\TDING <9AILORS, 48 NoRTH PEARL S'r., Notman Building. ALBA:NY, N. Y, 218 William St., New Yor'k R£ T. MOIR, ~~===-­ soaKs, FINE 81'f\TIONERY, PICrfVRE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, Ere. AL':EAAv:v PRI~_:[_Ef-t · STEAMSHIP AGENCY. • . •• 8ll8 State St., Sc_he'lte(}tady, N. Y EL~ES • RgSES, GV'T' FLOWERS FURNISHED A'f SHORT' N01'1GE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL-- HEAD-TO-FOOT. ALBANY, N.Y. ~SAUL.

The .. __,..... -- -~-- .. --.--- ..... ~ . Concordiensis. VoL. XXI, PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY T'H:E STUDENTS OF UNION COL LECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. DECEMBER 10, 1897. No~ 1 4.

2 -----ADVE.RTISEMENTS- ---~-----· - UNION COLLEGE · Gentleri~ e11 ANDtEW V, V. B.AYMOND,.D. D., LL.D., Presi~ent, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to tlite Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including li'Tench and German. After H'opho- more year the work is largely eleetive. 2. Cour:se Lea(Ung to th.e Deg·ree of B. S.-The modern lang-uages are substituted for the ancient and the amount of Mathematics ana English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of elertives is off·ered. 3. Course T~eading to tlre Degree of Ph. B._:~rhis differs from the A. B. course ehieflv in the mniH\lion of Greek and the suh~titution therefor 0f additional work ill modern languages and seience. 4. Genera;} Ceurse Leading to t'he Degree of R. E.- This course ls intended to give the baRis of a:n Engineering education~ inrludtng the fundamental principles of an special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German. and a. full course in English. · 5. Sanita-ry Course Lea,ding to the Degree of B. E.- This differs fr0m Course 4: i:n substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. IUectrieal Course Leading to the Degree ef B. E.- This differs from Course 4: in substituting special work in Elec- tricity ~nd its applications, ht place of some of the General Engineering: .stndieR. ThiR co1nse is offered in co-operation with the Edison Heneral Elec~tric Company. 7. Gra.dn.ate Course in Engineering I .. eading to the Degree of (J, E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurf?Y and Natural History. For catalogues or for .special informatiOn address BENJ A:MIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Alba,ny Hf'dical College.-1'erm commences last Tues- day in September. Three yeat·s strictly graded course. In- Btructions by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical ad vantages excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100: perpetual ticket, $:!50: g-raduation fee, $25; dissecting- fee, $10; laboratory course. ear.h, $10. Ji'or circalar address \YILIJIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Hegistrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department is located at .Albany, near the State Capitol. l t occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The oourse is one year, divided into two &em esters. Expenses.- :Matriculation Fee, $10: Tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address J'. NEWTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday., Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- tioll. a.ddi~~ss DE BAUN VANAKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, 222 Hamilton St.. Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. ThP .large::;t and 1uost :rnodern Boot, Shoe and RubbPr Etuporiutn in New York State. QUlRI'S ·sHOE STORE. 311 STATE ST., COR. 'VALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' BON BO'NS -AND- Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ~igar6 and the gure6t o~ JJrug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9Hs ... €DISON f)OJilEU, ---Schenectady, N. Y. Central~y located, and the Largest and Best Appolnted Hotelln ike city. Headquarters .for Commercz'al Travellers a1zd Tou rists 8HF\8. BROWN, PROPRIE10R,

The Coll,cordie11sis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, DE:OEMBER 10, 1897. No. 11. JuQ:ior flop. The first in the series of junior hops was held at Yates' boat house, Friday evening, Dec. 3, and was a success in every way-financiaHy as well as socially. The dance was not very largely attended by the students, but the attendance of Sch.enecta- dians was far in excess of the cornmittee's expect- ations. The tnusic for the tw:enty-four numbers was furnished by Gioscia. Atnong those present were the Misses Beat- He, Walker, Brown, Strain, DeForest, Ray Yates, Van Duesen, Ballard, Willian1s, White, Campbell, Horstlnann, Miller, Susan Yates, Curtis, Darling and Lewis of this city; Mrs. Wait and the Misses Kline, Stove1·, Phillips and Jewett, of An1sterda1n; Miss Dodge of W ashingtcn ; 1\!Iiss Heatly, of Troy ; Miss Stevenson, Arygle; Miss Strong, of New York; and Miss Catneron, of Toronto. Profs. Opdyke, McKenzie and Webster, Messrs. Vrooman, Foote, Nevins, Parsons, C. D. Ste\vart, P. B. Yates, Turner, Dunham, Van Vlack, R. F. Paige, Featherstonhaugh, Hoyt, Price, Howard Wright, vVilson, Frank T. Wright, E. E. Y el- verton, Hinman, E. W. Strong, J. S. Stewart, llomer Strong, Lawrence, Hoxie, R. E. Brad- ford, P. L. Merrin1an, I-Ieennance, L. 1'. Brad- ford, Edward vV alker, Leavenworth ; Mr. Frank vV. Smith of Rexford's Flats and Mr. Cook of Troy. The patronesses w,ere : Mrs. A. V. V. Ray- tnond, 1\frs. B. H. Ripton, Mrs. Maurice Per- kins, Mrs. T. vV. Wright, Mrs. J. R. Truax, Mrs. S. G. Ashrnore, Mrs. E. E. Hale, jr., Mrs. H. F. Mosher, Mrs. W tn. Wells, Mrs. I. I. Yates, Mrs. W. C. Vrooman, Mrs. G. W. Featherstonhaugh, Mrs. Langdon Gibson, Mrs. I. B. Price, Mrs. J. W. Smitley, Mrs. J. K. Paige, Mrs. S. Dana Green, Mrs. J. S. Landon, Mrs. J. W. Strain, Mrs. C. C. Brown and Mrs. John A. De Retner. Nutnber I, Volume II, of the setni-annual alumni buBetin ,js now under course of prepara- _ tion and will be issued about tbefirst of ]anua1·y. The con11nibtee in charge are Professor A. S. Wright of the 'Case School of Applied Science, Cleveiand, 0.; Rev. A. L. Be11nettof Waltham, Mass. ; and Dr. A. 1-1acFarlane of Albany. A sub-committee cotnprising the instructors of the faculty are also assisting in the -vvork. The publication will contain an account of the last commencement, a brief sutntnary of recent college ~ws, an account of the new 1nen1 bers of the faculty, articles on athletics, the college press and the centennial volutne. Registers of officers of the yarious altunni associations and of metnbers of decennial classes will also be in- · eluded. An account of the recent bequest to the library will be furnished and the boo\, will contain an obituary of the late Professor John Foster. Edu~atioQal 'oiJfereQGe. At the Association of Colleges and Prepara- tory schools of the Eastern states and Maryland, held in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., Novetnber 26-27, Union was represented by Dr. Raytnond, Pro- fessors Ashn1ore, Hale, Hofrrnan, and Wright. Prof. Marvin of the Union Classical institute, was also present. The discussion of teaching of history, seience and the ancient language received special atten- tion. Dr. Raymond presided at a n1eeting of teachers of history on Noven1ber 26. Union was honored by having Dr. Hall selected as vice-president of the association for the ensuing year. The institutions forn1 ing the association were well represented and the progratnme proved very interesting and brought out much discussion. The place of tneeting for next , year has not yet been decided upon.

,I li ., ,, I 4 ~ THE CON·OORD1ENSIS. The last meeting of the term was of :much in- ' terest. A large ntunher of students filled the :. association roon1s. The -college quartet sang ' two selections and Dr. Raymond delivered the : address. He said in part: At the end of an account of Eleazar's single ,· handed con1bat with the Philistines., we are told ·· that '• His sword clave to his hand.'' From tllis :. we can gain a very important lesson. After the ' heat ofbattle, with all the weariness that tnust ' have cotne upon him, the n1an kept a finn grasp : upon his weapon. And it is in this keeping of, a £rn1 grasp upon our weapons, and not simply · in the fact that we have good weapons that we . ate strong Christians. We may take exa.mples. without nutn ber. Fo.r instance, worship is a part of tnan's nature. We tnust cultivate the virtues which are given us, and no trtan who is not regular in the worship of the sanctuary can come to his full growth in strength of character. If through weariness or letting the tirne slip by, we neglect our privileges, it argues a weak- ness. Opportunity is before us everywhere and in itself cannot mean success or failure. Return for weapons if you will, to first principles, which are few and simple. Take the principle that sin curses ; nothing in the world can change that. Again take the principle that honor, purity, integrity are worth more than all the world to tnan. Could anything be more simple or more powerfnl if we cling to it? But the notable &inners, the de- faulters, the men who becotne personally itnpure do not fall through a deliberate wish to do evil. In fact their creed is directly opposed to that, but they did not cleave to their weapon. Now the Bible is called the sword of the spirit, and as such should be studied. Many think they have no need of this, but while religious literature is plentiful it can never take the place of the Bible. Its exegetical study is not a part of the college curriculum, probably because such study was considered hostile to the union of beliefs for which the college stands. But I urge you to use such advantages as you have for this interesting work, that you may arm yourselves with a powerfu 1 sword. Gailey, the Princeton football centre, will ·enter the missi0 nary :fiie1ld in :China. University o.f Pennsylvania will erect a m;'e- m~orial tablet :to. :Osgood '91, who was killed in Cuba. A1onzo E. Branch., '99, left half back on the WiHiams tearn, has been elected football captain for next year. Harvard has arranged a southern baseball trip during the easter vaca~tion '98, when they wiU meet the Universities of Virginia, Georgeto\\·n, Carolina and Johns Hopldns. The Cornell n1 u:sical ciubs will take a western trip during tbe Christn'las vacation, giving con- certs at Rochester, :Buffalo, Toledo,. Cleveland, Grand Rapids and Cildcago. At Rochester the rushes b~tween sophotnores and freshmen. have been abolished by the two classes. Football and baseball games will here- after decide tb:e question of class suprell}a:cy. The University of Penn.sylvania has adopted R syste1n of required physical examination among the freshtnen. The tests have been very thorough and have revealed many serious bodily defects requir·ing immediate attention. Several candidates for the athletic tean1 have been found either physicaH y defective or unable to pass the strength test. The system works well and the students are enthusiastic in its support. ._/' Dean Sage a.nd W'm. H. Sage have presented Cornell with the large house in Ithaca which was occt;tpied for nany years by their father, the late Henry W. Sage. The house will be altered at their expense and used as a hospital for the Cornell students. The donors will en- dow it with $.roo,ooo, which will be used solely for the \ Cornelllnf:innary,\ as it wiH be called. Henry W. Sage was, for many years president of the board of trustees of Cornell and gave large sum.s to the university. He built Sage college and endowed it with $Ioo,ooo, the library building at a cost of $3oo,ooo with an endowment of $3oo,ooo., and gave $27o,ooo for the maintenance of the Sage School of Philo- sophy. His other gifts. were numerous and his sons have followed dose ly in his footsteps.

'rHE CON·OORDIENSit;. 5 Next year will be the centennial year of the incorporation of Schenectady as a city, and plans have been adopted for an elaborate cele- bration. The act of incorporation was passed by the legislature on March 26th, but, o·wing to the in- clemency of the weather fit that time, the cele- bration will take place in June. William Howes Stnith, ex '69, and Dr. Charles C. Duryee, ex '82, are metnbers of the cotnn1ittee, and Alexander J. 'l~hon15on, '48, is its permanent secretary. 'l'he programme fol- lows: Sunday, J nile 5, 1898.-Metnorial observ- ances in all the churches relating to the early history of the respective churches where ser- vices are held. Monday, June 6.-In the morning, general display of National flags, choral singing and historical exercises in all the schools of the city ; in the afternoon, Tegatta and other sports on the Mohawk; ~n the evening, grand open air instru- mental concert by our city and visiting bands, with a tnarch composed for the occasion, at Crescent park, and grand chorus of voices cotn- posed of all singing organizations of our city. Tuesday, June 7 .-Forty-five guns at day- break; in the tnorning, grand civic and tnilitary parade in which all city and visiting organiza- tions will join ; in the afternoon, sports, exer- cises and games of all nations, together with a balloon ascension at the driving park ; in the evening, grand historical pageant and centennial costume ball ; costumes relating to the year 1798, at the new state annory. Wednesday, June 8.-At sunrise a salute of one hundred guns cotnn1e1norative of the years of our existence as a city. and the ringing of bells; at IO o'clock in the n1otning, military escort to orator and other distinguished speakers, poet, city guests, etc., to place of holding cen- tennial exercises; centennial exercises, music, invocation, poem, oration, addresses, etc. ; in the evening, elaborate display of fire works and a, banquet and reception to distinguished guests and others. f1ev. fnr. ~ole to [;eav~. The Rev. Philip H. Cole, pastor of the Second Reformed church of Schenectady, has accepted a call to t~e pulpit of the First Reformed church of Syracuse. The students of -Union college will regret to hear of Mr. Cole's departure for he was very popular with then1 and his services were attend- ed by 1nore Union men t11an those of any other Schenectady church. He is young, being now in his thirty-third year, has an established repu- tation as a brilliant orator, is a deep student in Biblical subjects and an extensive European traveler. Mr. Cole was reared on his father's farm near Red Hook and entered U uion college in the fall of 1884. He at once showed masterly abilities both as orator and student. He graduated in '88 with the degree of A. B. and captured the valedictory and many other prizes. Mr. Cole was a student at the Union Theo- logical Seminary for a time and then in 1889 re .. turned to accept the assistant professorship in English at his alma mater which he held until his resignation in 1895. He has been pastor of the Second Reforn1ed church since 1891 and this is his fifth call to other fields. President Elliot, of Harvard, prophesies that college fraternities will, in time, canse Atneri- can universities to be broken up into colleges after the English plan. The University of California now has a daily paper, Daily Californian by natne. It vvas last year known as The Berkeleyan, and was changed at the beginning of the present year to The Californian. The change to a daily publi- cation has only recently been tnade, and brings the total of daily college papers up to eleven, viv. : The Californian, The Daily Palo Alto, The Brown Daily Herald, The Wisconsin Car- dinal, Yale News, Harvard Crimson, The Pennsylvanian, Tie Cornell Sun, The Prince- tonian, College Spirit (Tulane University) and The U. of M. Daily.

I I ,I ! 'i Ll }I :11' , . 6 1'HE 0'0NC~ORDIEN8IS. THE CONC:ORDIENSIS. :PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK DURlJifG THE COLLEGE YEA•Ro BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOMAN, '98, - Business Manager CARL HAMMER, '98, - - · - - News Editor JOHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, G. 0. RowELI.1, '99, II. K. 'VRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, j}. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. \V. P A.IGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 190Q. FRIDAY, December 10, will long stand as a red- letter day in the history of the college. Neither the lecture of the afternoon nor the enjoyable concert of the evening -will be soon forgotten. Few lllOre engaging Sp(lakers than Mr. vVallace :Bruce ever occupied the college rostrum, and the students .are duly :grateful. They are grateful, too, for that beneficent power that brings such speakers to the college. This same power. may it be said, is only one of very many powers t.hat are at present working for Union's well-being and all of whieh have a con1mon source. ATTENTION is called in another colu1nn to a question that rnerits thP attention of the faculty and students and all othel's interested in securing TERMS: abroad the reputation of Union. A free circula- CoNCORDIENSIS, $2.00 per Year, iu Advance , tion of the college publications in the preparatory Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 per Year, in .Advance schools of this and adjacent states, would not only Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in be a good advertisement for the colle.ge in a gen- Advance. eral way but it would attract the attention, we Address all com1nunications to THE CONCORDI- n1odestly affirm, particularly of prospective stu- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. dents interested in literary worh.-a very desirable Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 332 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. NOTICE TO COr-l'TRIBUTO~S. All copy intended for insertion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDAY noon. THE students living in the sections should take some interest in the general good appearance of the dorn1atory halls as well as their rooms. There is no license that we are aware of authorizing a student to put his ashes in the ball. Other means for their disposal is furnisbed gratis by the college. It is son1etimes to be larnented the ash-dumping fiend n1ay not as easily be disposed of. THE enjoyment of the entertainment in aid of the public library given by 1\:fiss Herford last Friday night was not a little enhanced by the musical setting furnished by members of the col- class, we take it. The collegian intere~t.ed in literary work is not as a rule the illiterate, false- syntax type of collegian one reads about so much in the press of the times. J3y means of the above mentiont-d plan. perhaps we could work up to so1nething like a balance of the two classes. 0N11~ of the rnost irnportant pieces of inforrna- tion contained in the third alumni bulletin soon to be issued is that referring to the recent bequest to the library. The gift while an important one is not as hnportant as the fact that it is Inerely a big wave in the gPneral tide now running in that direction. The library is steadily increasing, and that rapidly. Under the .effective managem0nt of Thfr. I.Jynes its utility is also greatly enhanced. The tirne is not far off w ben Union will have one the finest libraries in this section of the country. Not the least important element in this recent prospel'ity are the gifts fl'oJn the Phi :Beta Kappa and the Instructor!s club. The books from the latter source, especially, fill a very long felt want for current fiction. In former years this depart- ! 1nent of literature had been aln1ost totally neg- lege organizations. It would scarcely be pardon- able however, if we were to suggest that the Sche- lected from which arose a corresponding apathy nectady public reciprocate when opportunity pre- on the part of the students. Nowadays the library sents itself and support college affairs a little more ! is receiving no end of attention from the under- warrnly. graduates.

THE OONOORDIENSIS. 7 The last issue of The Alumni Prinaeto111ian con- tains an article on '' Football Next Year '' that is one of the most eloquent essays on college spiri:t it has ever been our good fortune to see. After paying high tribute to the m,en who plil.t up such .a n1agnificent fight in ~the face of defeat, the t.ri- bute of Yale also is quoted as expressed in the .Altt1nni weekly * * * * \And stilt Prince- ton, by which is meant the spirit of Princeton, was unconquered. Broken in heart and battered by the :fearful fight, half of the players threw them- seJves on the ground and like honest boys, when nothing was left to do, gave way to honest, bitter feeling. But they were still Princeton's team and Princeton would not leave them vanquished. The thousands in Nassau's cheering sections held their places in the stand, -waved their flags all the more wildly, rolled out their songs all the more loudly, and cheered for each and every player as he was carried up before the1n, in such a ·way as they never could have cheered players on a team vic- torious: '' Sueh happenings as these,\ the writer goes on to state, \can haye but o_ne result. They give the college spirit a flavor which nothing can detract frotH. Men knowing they will be honored in de- feat as well as in victory, so long as they do their best, will work as only men can work to play upon our tean1s and help those teams -win. 'All of these things are certain to bear fruit in the future.\ 61}is Des~rues flttel)tior;. Editor Concordie7zsis : At this tin1e of the year when the tnatter of getting new students, and especially those who are proficient in athletes as well as in the classics is under consideration, it seetns to be an oppor- tune titne to offer a suggestion as to one way of getting new material. Frequently influences appear to us insignifi- cant when to others they are far from being of little importance. One of these, for exatnpie, is a college paper in a preparatory school. A neat paper always attracts attention and if in ad- dition the news is furnished in an attractive way, the paper is sure to tneet with a warm welcotne. If we furnish copies of our papers .to the schools which have already sent graduates to Union, we can in this way give them an opportunity to hear now and then what their boys are doing and so keep their interest active. If V\re also furnish the schools which are likely to send us candidates for admission with copies of our paper we can give thetn a glitnpse into our col- lege life and very probably awaken in the1n such an interest that we can hereafter depend upon them for support. As has been said before, this matter may seem of slight itnportance to so1ne but in reality it ex- erts a strong influence and should not therefore be thrown aside without consideration.-\ 1901 .\ n'liQOr TopiGS. Cotton '99, -vvho has been sick has resumed work. The condition exatninations for the fa11 term closed yesteaday. The freshman final examinations will close on Friday morning of next week. A basketb~ll outfit is soon to be purchased and placed in the gymnasiutn. Howard 'iV est '95, of Mechanicsville was in the city last week visiting friends. The freshman class began their physical culture under Mr. Pollard last week. The Science Teachers' Association of New York State will convene at the University build- ings, Ithaca, Dece1nber 30-3 r. The Concordiensis has received a copy of ''The Journal,'' a rnonthly n1agazine of current and professional topics. It contains a long and highly flattering notice of Hulbert C. Mande- ville, '88, who is a pro1ninent lawyer of Eltnia. The new baseball cage is now in course of construction and will soon be ready for use. The bow ling alley has been enlarged and the wooden floor removed, thus giving the players a dirt floor and increasing the height of the room several feet. Baseball candidates can begin work in it at the opening of the winter term.

•I \ ,. 1: ,. (· I I \: i li I' 'il 'li ll II!; jJ ~r . I I i 1 '.ll r~ \: li,l ' I , ' i'r . I !'I! l 'l •i: -----AD VERTISEMEN'TS. -----· ~ 1'. C. Ham, Dartn1outh '95, of Dover, spent Sunday with Physical Director PoHard. While in college Mr. Ham distinguished himself in the q uarter-n1i le. :i ' The Union college March and Two-·step by Guy B. Collier, 1901, has been copyrighted by 1 the con1poser and is just out. The march is published by Clute & Sons, of Albany. W. J. Bryan has given $250 to the Nebraska University, which is to he invested and proceeds given annuaHy to the writer of the best essay on \ Science of Governrnent.\ D.ean Alford, a great authority on gran1~mer, says in a sentence like '\ It is me '' the word \ me\ is not in the objective case but is a sec- ondary fonn of the nominative; and the philo- logist Sweet confirms this. Good gratnmarians approve such fonns for colloquial use. '' 1vf ost men work for the present, a few for the future. The wise work for both-for the future in the present, and for the present in the future.\- Guesses at Truth. 'Who is .•. C. GOETZ? The only T'ailor in Schenectady who imports goods direct from England. Just received a large assortment for Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- k)l11 and pteam ereanin~ and D1eing Wo:ul\s. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-clari!s work guaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. cJAGOB Rl N DFLEISGH, 18 Central Arcade. SCliENECTADY, N. Y. Open until 9 P. M. Work done at short notice. INSURANC.E, EVERY DESCRIPTION, :e. iCL·EV~ELAND· S·LOAN, 424 STATE STREE'T. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get tny prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. B01'HF\M, 214 CLI:NTO·N 81'. KEELER'S----.... . • EUROPEAN •• HOTEL AND RESTAUR~HT,\ Broadway and Maiden Lane, ALBANY, N.Y.---. • • c:iENTLEMEN OflL T. 250 ·ROOMS. • .• Ladies Restaurant Attached ••• • • WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNE X -507 8c. 509 :BROA OW A Y. II HIGH GRADE SHO'ES .. ----·AT LOWEST PRICES.- - 245 State St. PATTON &:, HALL.

-ADVERTISEMENTS.---- The thirteenth annua'l holiday conference of the A ~sociated Acadetnic Principals of Ne~ W. tc L. E. CURLEY, 514 ·FULTON ST., TROY, .N.Y. York State wiU he held at Syracuse Decetnber' ' Largest Manufacturers in America I I • I z8-3o, r 897. Topics of great educational in- I • • of Engineers; and Surveyors' Instruments. terest win be discussed, and mutual acquaint- ance and good feliowsb.ip will be protnoted. While the conference is of secondary teachers and is in the interest of high schools and acad- emies, colleges and nonnal schools, other repre- sentatives will be welcomed and given oppor- tunities to take part in the discussions. Dr. Raymond and the heads of the departtnents of Union have heen invited to be present at and participate in the conference. It ends by an ad- ' dress Wednesday evening by M. Woolsey Stryker, President of 1-Iatnilton college, in the City HalL-Ex. Organized 1858. Incorporated . .J . K The largest me:mbership of L \EI A 0 ~· L\E;N any musioa:l organization OUIS .c: INKELl.\'1 N, D1rect01. in .Albany. Manager. 10TH 1.tEGT. lUILITARY HAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, Hamilton, Cornell, Williams, Middlebnry, etc. FurBished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, .Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddin.gs.BaHs, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. 'HINKELMAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240. 75 State St .• Albany. D~S~~ ~·· ~Ull~~UllTll(O)INJ~ l':: othe:::::::~ ·---··- '~ constantly on hand. . . •• . ..,,. GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 ST..ATE STREET. G®kDRIN.GS~ POPULAR FLORISTS. CHRYSANTHEM~l\IS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 50 NORTH PEARL STREE'l'. AL,BRNY, N. I. Also dealers in Drawing Iustl'Uinents and Materials. ~HAYLE & S0N, ~ . ....................................................... ~ * E!LQKAVE~J, * ..---ALBANY, N. Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, ~2.50 and Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards . 8. D. WI A'TT ~ GO., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. G. HAR.TJjEY, \The Union St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Sara.toga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackel'S. • .. r • -------L. D. TELEPHONE 104, Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET .

I i '' '! 'I I' 1' .I ,, :I tO ..;.:;;;:_.__AD VER'f!SEMENTS .~ Yates' Boat Honse. The largest;a,nd best equipped in tb.eSta:te. Excel- lent Dan.cing Hall, which can be ·rented ,for Private Parties Only., ·in ·connection with he use. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. :CQ AL---•rMMII#IP',., The Celebrated D. L. & :W. Coal. for sate by V EE[)E:R B R:O'.S,., No. 421- STATE STREET. (Successor to Yan B. Wheaton), h. PHOTOGl~APHER, ~ and dealer in Cameras ara.d Photograph'ic SuppUes. ST'UDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio .fo1· pt~pular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. Gro.scrA & GARTLAND's 0 RCHE.STRA. ~96 Broadway, ALBANY, N. Y. Telephone 4:82. Union College, '91 to \97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University., '94 to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University~ ~90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94: to '97 :SJ11\Ji'YTE ~ D EltE]'!J?.E<Zl\, •- - Wb.olesale and Retail Dealers in .... eo}l.L ai]d W00B Lime, Cement, Pla.ster, Hair, Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled. Iray, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St •. and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N.Y. Wade & Co., FL0RISTS. • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, ALBANY, N. Y. ,, L. T. 'CLUTE,---------- HrATTER AND 'F'UR!RI;ER. .Also, T,·runks, Bags, AfiJuit Gases, Gloves, Umbrdlas, Canes, Etc. 227 .Sf A'l'E 8'fR E E'T', At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE [!] {jj w w (f) [!] No. 15 Nortll Pearl St., ALI:JANY, N.Y. You will find the \V ASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guita·rs, Banjos and Zithers. 'l.'he Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ....----._THOMAS HAS TH:E BEST. EMBOSSED UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEAD:S, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS PRINTER, 332 STATE STREET. Wm. Doberman.n, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. rce Crea·m and Ices constantly on hand. 104-106 Wan Street, SCHKNECTADY, N.Y.

THE. OONOORDIH'NSIS. 11 DASE BIILLI .Su.pplies, :Spalding League Ban, 1\Iits, Masks, etc. Managers shoqld send for samples and .special rates . Every requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, 1.'ntck and Field, Gy1nnasiuru Equipn1ents and Out- fits. Complete Catalogue of spring and Suntmer Sports free. '' The N a1ne the Guarantee . ;, WIENCKE'.S-~ I)orrtELL GE~MANIA AND ~ESrrtAU~ANTit. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty Sts. BRIAR AMBER AND ' Pipes. :MEERSCHAUM THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GENTRAL PHARMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. A.ND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, M e1\cl~a1ttt Ta·ilor. No. 28'1 Stat~ St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. HNI0N eoLLEeE B00K EXeJi}l.NeE. All College Texts, Draughti ng lnstru ments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary ::ollege supplies. PlCK·FO.R·D 8'R0S., Union 'Market DEA..LERS IN ALL FRESH MEA.TS AND POUIJTRY. ~Ga1ne in :season. Telephone 38-8. 602 UNION. COR. BARRETT STS. ~\\'riedman Bros., O'HOIOE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SOUTH CENTRE 8'1'. Wh ()l esale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CENTRE ST. Ccunnission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~SCHENECTADY CLOTHING CO., .•. 'rHE LEADING .•. ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNI'SHERS. 315Sta,te Street, Rchen€etady, N.Y. Edis<Jn. Hotel lluild.ing-. A. G. HERRICK. U'NION RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 2 !I Meals $3. Pron1pt Se·rvice. Morton House ' THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Ge,ld Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.60 Per Week.

12 --ADVI~RTISEMEN'rS.--'- THE A ON:L y A FLORI:STS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. T1IE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. fl. G. AUS'TI N ENGRAVING 80., ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send l!.,or Estimates. College work a Specialty. M ' ens • • • Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for IIAN AN & S()N ~!EN'S SHOES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. Jl)all J1asltio11s .a1Jd .Jjf;lblfiCS READY F'OR YOU:R INSPECTION AT J 0 H . N·· · c: o· N· '<. •. :.'· \ .. : ::, ~..; \ o, Tr_JIE PoPULAR TAILOR. F. A .. Van Vranken. 35 MAIDEN LANE, AL:BANY, N. Y. INTERCOLLE'GIATE .BUREAU FoR CAPS, GOWNS & HOODS Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL & LEONARD, 472-478 B'way. ALBANY, N.Y. F. VanVranken. VAN VRF\NI·'<\EN BROS., lMPORTDING <9AILO~S, 48 NORTH PEARL Sr.r., Notman Building. ALBANY N Y • , I . I P.F.McBREEN, R: T. lVIOIR, ~~===-­ sooKs, FINE STATIONERY, PIGIVRE FRAMING, 218 Williani St., New Yor·k 1 AL:'EAJ:v·PRINTERi WA L.L PAPERS, El'c. E.lKES A RgSES, GUT FLOWERS FURNISHED RT SHORT NOTIGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. 11 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENCY ..... 3.'~3 State St., Schenectady, N. Y READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL·---- .... liE AD- TO- FOOT I F\ L:BANY, N.Y. ~SAUL.

