~. '-• .... ~··· -- .... ------ __ ..__ .. -·-·· .. The Concordiensis. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STtJ DENTS OF UNION COLLECE, ScH,ENECTADY, N. Y. JANUARY 7:, 1898. No. 12.

,f. i ;I i. -ADVERTISEMENTS- UNION COLL,EGE ANDBEW V. V. RAYMOND, D. D.,.LL, D,, l'resiCI.ent, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. l • Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.~The usual Classical Coarse, including French and German. After Sopho- more year the work is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Deg.ree of B. S.-The modern lan~uages are substituted for the anclent and the amount ot Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Leading to tt1e Degree of Ph. B.-This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in. the omis.;;ion of Greel{ and the sabstitution therefor of additional work in modern languages and s·cience. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree ofB. E.- This course is intended to g-ive the basis of an Engineering education, including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 .in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for smne of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of H. J!J.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of Rome ·Of the General Engineering- studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. G1·aduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Deg1~ee of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduate~ of Course 4, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallurg-y and Natural History. For catalogues or for special information address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Term commences last Tues- day in September. Three years strictly graded course. In- structionlil by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantag~s excellent. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $25; dissecting fee, $10; laboratory course. each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany I .. aw Scllool.-This department is located at Albany 1 uear the St~te Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devotea to its use. The course is one year, divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For eatalognes or oth~r i1;1formation, address J. NE\WTON FIERO, Dean. ALBANY LA. W SCHOOL, .Albany, N.Y. ... ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held ip. Alb~ny Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. ],or catalogue and informa- t.ioll address D:E B.AUN V .AN AKEN, Ph. G., Secretary, 222 Hamilton St. Gentleme11: • • • Bny Your Shoes at QUIJZI'S. The largest and most modern Eoot, Shoe and Rubber Emporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 STATE ST., COR. vVALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ BON SONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the 1Jure6t oft ugrug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. €>HE ... €DISON QOJilEL, ••===· Schenectady, N. ¥ . C~ntrally located, and th~ Largest q1'1d Best Appoint~d Hotel in the city. Headqu(lrters for Commercial Travellers a1ld Tourists 8HA8. BROWN, PROPRIE'fOR.

' t'f; Th<5 CoJlcordie.Ilsis -VoL. XXI. . UNION Q,OLLEGE, ~JANUARY 7, ·1898. ·No. 12. · · seated at twelve tables. · A table· was reserved J'f:ew Yor~ flll.lffiQi foss.oG:iatiOQ BaQ·quet ,' ·for the. pTess ~nd one for ttie U:nion College The tenth annual dinner ·Of the Union College Alumni A·ssociation of New York City, took. place ;;tt the Ho.tel Savoy, Thursday evening, · Decetnber 9· Over roo ,en.thusiastic alumni wei·e present ~nd the reunion was the most en_:- joy~ble that has ever been :held. Quartette compose-d of John · H~: Gutman, '98, ·Robert M. Eame~, '99, Harold J .. ~inman, '99, and Frederick L. Greene, '99· · ~n orchestra furnished tnusic and between the courses the ·quartette sarig Union songs. The menu ·was ·as foliows :· . . H uitres Pointe Elene. . . Petites 'Bouchees de Crabes d'Hnitres a 1' Amiral. Filet de Poisson du Roi ala Meuniere Coneo'mbres. Darre d' Agneau en Casserole a _la Mira beau. Pommes Donees. Haricots V er.ts au Beun~e . f?upreme ·de Jam bon ·a la Royal. Terapene ala Maryland. Sorbet en Surprise. Caille·. Bardee au Cresson. Salade ·Ese~role et '1;omate. Glaces de Fantaisie. Petits Fours. Fromage. Fruit. Cafe. ·Previous· ·to the banquet a business tneeting. was held and officers were elected. as follows': ·President, Silas B. Brown, '52 ; first vice-presi- ·denf, Dr. DanielM. Stim·~on, '64; second vice- -president, the Rev. Charles D. Nott, D. D., '54; 'secretary, . Edgar S. Barney, '84; treasurer, 'Eayard Whitehorn, '82; ex:ecutive committee, . Gen. Daniel Butterfield,' 49; Prof. Franklin H~ Giddings, Ph. D., '·77; Charles W. Culver, 'S9; Talcott C. Van · Santvoord, 'So ; Howard J. Cole, '86; CoL: Ch.a!les E. Sprague,_ '6o; Frank _:Bailey, '85; G:. Herbert Daley, '92; George T. J:Iughes, '93; Glarke W .. Crannell~ '95; Dr. ·An~rew H. Smi.th, '5.8; .Hon .. F,rederick W. . After the plates had been removed, Dr. Alex- S_eward, '49; Willhtm K. Gilchrist, '83; Do~g- ; an·der .W:elcome~ the guests and called upon Gen. lass Carnpbell, '94; Dr. Joseph Allan O'Neill, 13utterfield, who respo_nded to ~he toast: \The '97· Secretary Barney reported that the associ- .Flag.\· He gave several. war reminiscences and ation has 6oo member~ ·in Greater New York _con~~uded with a graceful tribute. to the stars and and vicinity. · .. : , ·;stripes . . · The Rev. George Alexander, D. D.; '66, the ~ Pre~ident A~ y. V. Raymond, w~o spoke of :retiring president, sat at the. head of the dis_ : r,.;,, Al~a . Mater.',' was greeted :w·itl1 great ap- tinguished guest's table, at which were ·Dr~ ,plause. . He said that. the importance of Union .Raymond,. Prof .. Wells, St.. Clair McKelway, College had never been fully undet·stood. At its L.L .. D., Gen. Daniel .Butterfield,. Gen. Daniel foundation the state was sparsely settled, beyond E. Sickles, Hamilton W. Mabie, L.L. D., Utica· all J being, practically · w:i~derness. As :Horace B. Sillim·~n, L.L. D., Hon~ Frederick_ .. : ,young tnen graduated fro~n Union, the only col- .W.: Sew.ard, .and . Gen. J. ·Rufus Tryon, U. S ... Ie.ge north of New York and west of the Hud- A ... Th~ other guests, Dr. W. A. Bartlett and son, they we.nt west· and became\the leaders of • .Messrs. John Bqgart, Georg-e ,B. Bonney, Edgar their communities.· During the 6rst-l1alf of the MacD·onald,. J~mes.P. Foster, Walter E. Frew, century. the ~1istory of Union was identi~al with .All;:.tn ·D.~ J{enyon; W .. R-. Kissam, Andtew th.at of the stat~. \ What Harvard .has been to .McCall, Wheeler G.-Peckhan1, Frank W. Run- Massachusetts, that Union. has, been to New ·Y?n.;J<?hn Townshend, Gilbert C. Wood, Judge Yo.rk, pre~n1inently.the·?ne institution that has Martin L.~ .Stover, a~d the .. a.lumni pr~sent .wer.e. shaped the destiny of, the cotn.moq:w;ealth. This

I j 't i I ·\ ' 1 ' ' ' ' ' ( j l I:; I . I '\ '! ll 4 is no mere assertion to be easily refuted by citing the relative unimportance of the ·college to-day. The foundations of New York's greatness were not laid yesterday, and when they were laid Union college was dominant.\ Dr. Raymond referred briefly to the death of Prof. Foster and urged that something be done to perpetuate the memory of Nott, Potter, llickock, Jackson, Tayler Lewis, .and Foster. He spoke of the importance of the small college., the present prospects of Union, and of Dr. Hitchcock's be- quest to the library. Other toasts were res ponded to as follows : \Sons of Old Union,\ Gen.· J. Rufus Tryon, '59; \ Our Guests,\ Dr. Horace B. Silliman; \ Our Faculty,\ Prof. William Wells; \ Our Trustees,\ Col. Charles E. Sprague, '6o; \ Our Sister Colleges,\ Prof. Franklin H. Gid- dings, Ph. D., '77, of Columbia College. St. Clair McKelway, L.L. D., editor of the Brooklyn Eagle and honorary chancellor in I 897, then gave an address on \ The University of the State of New York.\ The address abounded with witty sayings ·and closed with a scholarly tribute to Union College. The Union alumni residing in and around Scranton, Penn., met at Scranton Monday, De- cetnber zo, and organized the Alutnni Associa- tion of Northern Pennsylvania. Homer Greene, '76, was elected president, and George Coe Merritnan, '96, secretary and treasurer. The members are very enthusiastic and displayed much college spirit. An effort will be made to send students from that part of the state to Union, and one alumnus has offered $roo toward the support of the first poor student coming to Union fron1 that vicinity. The alumni of the Albany Medical College will hold a banquet in New York city, January 25th, r898. Invitations have been extended to the alumni of other medical institutions to be present, and the same courtesy has been extended to graduates of Union College. W as,f]i :1] Q to I) fll UJ11.Qi DliJ e. The Union CoUege Alumni association of Washington, D. C., held its annual banquet Saturday, December r8. The attendance was larger than at any preceding banquet and notes of regret were received from many resident .alumni who were unable to be present. At the business tneeting of the association officers were elected as follows: President, Charles C. Nott, '48, Chief Justice of the U. S. Court of Claims; vice-presidents, the Rev. Frederick Z. Rooker, D. D., '84, and the Hon. Charles E. Pearse, '63, member of congress; secretary, Norman E. Webster, Jr., '96; treas- urer, the Hon. Henry N. Copp, '6r. There w·ere also present Dr. James E. Benedict, 'So, Dr. W. A. :Croffut, '89, CoL Weston Flint, '6o, the Ron. Walter H. Smith, '46, Williatn M. Lewin, '82, the Hon. George C. Hazleton, '58, the Rev. Teunis S. Hamlin, D. D., '67, Dr. A. J. Corning, 'so, of Baltimore, and the Hon. W m. P. Williams, '8r, assistant U. S. treasurer at Chicago, and Addison A. Hostner, '57· After the dinner had been eaten, ] ustice N ott called on Representative Pearse, Dr. Harnlin and Dr. Rooker, who responded with witty ad- dresses. Col. Hosmer, who was a friend of Fitzhugh Ludlow, '56, led the alumni in the singing of the old songs, and many htnnorous ren1iniscences were related. Tli~ pi pl]i DaQ\~. The Pi Phi boys of the Union Classical insti- tute held their annual dance at Yates' boat- house on Tuesday evening, Dec. 28. Besides the active chapter, a large nutnber of the society's alumni together with a few invited guests were present. The Union men present at the dance were : Frank Cooper, '93 ; Howard Wright, '95 ; P. B. Yates, '98 ; T. B. Brown, ex-'98; W. R. Brown, ex-'98; F. vV. S1nith, ex-'98; 0. W. Strong, '99; M. M. Price, '99 ; P. L. Thom- son, 1900; G. W. Featherstonhaugh, 1900; E. R. Cullings, 1900; H. P. Dunhatn, 1900; C. E. Palmer, rgoo; F. R. Davis, rgoo; H. J. Brown, 1901, and P. L. Merriman, 1901.

'T.HE CONCORDilTINSlS. 5 On Monday morning, December zo, the coil- lege ~musical clubs left Schenectady in a special cat for Buffalo, where they were :to give the fir&t concert of the Cbristmas tour. [n the even- ing they appeared for the first time in the west- ern part of this state at Concert Hall in Buffalo. A large audience of fashionable Buffalonians greeted thetn, while the balcony was filled with ' the students of the Buffalo High School. The programme was given in full and for each num- ber an encore was dem::tnded. After the concert the whole association was invited to the Sat11rn dub by Mr. Walter \iVilson. Here the boys made n1erry, singing and chatting unta an early hour. Mr. Wilson was a royal host and has the gratitude of the whole club. On ,..fuesday morning many of the members of , the association made a brief visit to Niagara Falls. The second concert was given in Lock- port under the auspices of the Lockp():rt Wheel- men. The clubs were entertained during the afternoon by the wheeimen and after another excellent concert before a good sized audience the boys were invited to an enjoyable dance given by Mr. G. Pound. Rochester Music hall was well fiUed on Wed- nesday evening when the curtain rose. A large portion of the audience were alumni who waved Unionoflags and joined in the college cheers at the end of the prograrnme. Thursday morning the association arrived in Syracuse to give the fourth and last concert of the tour. During the afternoon a reception was given the clubs by the Misses Alice and Helen Graves who are cousins of Manager Sinclair. All pronounced the affair a delightful one. A number of young ladies from Syracuse U niver- sity -vvere present. In the evening the concert was given at Music hall, but the audience was not large. The Buffalo concert was managed by New- man Walbridge, ex-1900, and LamarR. Leahy, of Buffalo. The size and quality of the audi- ence bespeaks the praise due them. The Rochester concert was managed by J an1es G. Greene, '84, who was assisted by ~ Allen, ' 95, Fuller, '97, Morris,. '97, and Wil- liams, '97. To them many thanks are due for the success of the evening. The press was, without exception, liberal in praise of the m.erits of the concerts, tnany papers devoting more than a column to criticistn of the various features of the programn1e. This, the first western tour of O!ld Union's tnusical clubs, cannot fail to arouse interest in the college. The trip was pronounced an enjoyable one by all. T·be association was not without competi- tion as other college clubs gave concerts either prior to or after Union. So1ne of them failed to draw as large audiences and none received more praise than Union. fnode:rQ [aQQl.la~~s flssooiatioQ JT\I(~tii]Q. The Association of Modern Languages which is cotnposed of the professors of English and the n1odern languages in the colleges and high schools in the eastern states, held its fifteenth annual convention at the University of Pennsyl- vania during the Christmas holidays. The Union faculty was represented by Pro- fessors Hale arid Pepper and Dr. McKenzie. Prof. Hale took a prominent part in the discus- sions of the convent~ion, and Dr. McKenzie read a paper entitled ''A Sonnet ascribed to Chiaro Davanzati and its place in fable literature.\ Dr. Patterson, who left Union last fall to be- come head master of a school at Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, was present at one of the tneetings. One of the subjects discussed was that of entrance requiretnents in the modern languages. Each college now fixes its own requiretnents, but it is proposed to prepare a general uniform scheme, as in the case of the English require- ments, which are now uniform at nearly all the colleges in the east. A committee of twelve with Prof. Calvin Thomas of Columbia as chair- man, was appointed to consider this matter and report at the next tneeting of the association, which. will be held in December, r898, at the University of Virginia. Children may be strangled, but Deeds never; they have an indestructable life, both in and out of our consciousness.- George Eliot.

6 'TilE CONCORDIENSIS. UJaUaee Bruse's leetlJre OQ ftobert BurQS. Friday afternoon, D·ec. 10, an unusually large audience listened to an address by Mr. Wallace Bruce on Robert Burns, which will be recalled · with pleasure whenever his name is heard or his sayings quoted. President Raym.ond in intro- ducing the speaker said, \With this co·mbina- tion of names, if we do not see the thistle and smell the heather, it will not be the fault of the combination.\ Mr. Bruce illustrated m.an y of the character- istics of the poet hy reciting representative passages from \Tam O'Shanter,\ \The Cotter's Saturday Night,\ \To a Louse on seeing one on a Ladies' Bonnet,\ and from a poem to his chum Andrews. His own poem on the meet- ing of Sir Walter Scott, Robert Burns and William Shakespere was especially well de- livered and received much applause from the appreciative audience. The substance of his lecture follows. \President Raymond, Ladies and Gentlemen and Fellow Students :- A few years ago I was present at the unveil- ing of Burns' statue at New York when Sir Walter Scott met Robert Burns and introduced him to Will Shakespeare, all in bronze. This meeting seetned a fit then1e for a poetic inspira- tion. Bobbie Burns was probably the best es- tablished man in literature and mathematics in all England in his day. As an example of his efforts to attain this position and to show that he did not gain it without a struggle I will cite an instance in Burns' life in London. He wished to learn French and so went to the great Corbin and asked him to teach him French. Corbin declined ; but Burns insisted and said that Burns was no ordinary 1nan. He said that any hour convenient to Corbin would satisfy him. Corbin named ten o'clock every Thursday night as his hour. Burns sacrificed his pleasures, declined invitations to dine with nobility and seriously offended many of his friends in order to keep those engagement~ which, if once broken, would be discontinued by the autocratic Corbin. And so at the age of twenty-seven Burns mastered the French language. Born Januafy 25, 1729, in a clay-built, thatch- roofed cottage, homely, poor and sirnple, like many others of its family in poverty, reared through hardships greater even than ~those of an ordinary Scotch laddy, Bobbie Burns became so loved and admired by ihis countrymen, fatned wherever known and so truly prominent in the minds of all literary people, that his humble birthplace was transformed from a clay cottage into a ''Temple of Muses\ and Scotland became \The Land of Burns.\ Hardly a day passes but son1e personal tribute is paid to his 1nemory. The qualities shining out fron1 his poems interest all classes. But especially marked was his compassion and tender sytnpathy for humanity. He knew its strength and its weak- ness. There is no outcast, however low and forsaken he may be, but finds hope in his lines. He had those predominant characteristics that made him the ''Poet of Poets.\ No other man but Burns has united the poets of nations into giving tribute to one of their nutnber. All poets eulogize his poems. He is not a favorite of a class nor of a nation. All this appreciation cannot but be said to be just. He found Scotch a dialect and elevated it into a language. Would any other language give the strength to those well known quotations of Burns' which the Scotch dialect imparts? How could we express \0 wad some Power the giftie gie us to see oursels as ithers see us!\ in as strong a form without the Scotch dialect? Burns needed no rules nor forms to write the language of the heart. He knew that it was safer to stay on terra finna than to leap to the stars and fall back into the mire. He gathered his natural inspirations along streams that lnltrmured and among flowers that bloomed. He was not ashatned of his humble birth, but drew his strongest scenes from this life among the lowly. \The Cotter's Saturday Night\ is a very good exatnple of Burns' ability to paint a touching picture of homely life rather of granduer than of simplicity. And this was written in a poor garret over a farmer's stable. Genius is in the mind what electricity is in the universe. Burns knew he possessed it and

THE, c·6Nd6RbiENSIS. wrote for all time. There ne·ver was a writer, except Shakespeare, who could so excite all the passions in sucl1 rapid succession as could Burns. In his' ~Tam O'Sh.anter\ he shows such ludicl'OUS situations in such a tnanner as to make a true Scotchtnan laugh, even unto the third and fourth generation, brings into prorn·inence the ·efforts of · today to exchange the candle curtain for the rostrutn and produces the idea that if women w.ould use the broomstick more and not trj to use the ballot they would n'lake it warm even in Alaska. Whoever reads the picture there de- picted of convivial .exaltation is not without a certain sense of satisfaction. But Burns does not neglect to emphasize the moral to be de- rived frotn such conditions. He writes fiction as if it were reality.· His is a natural and pointed wit. His writings are not confined to the Scotch dialect. Sentitnental and cor11tnonplace subjects are written in plain English but when he has a humorous or a satirical subject be naturally falls into the Scotch · dialect. He saw in the jewels of the nobility the crystallized teat·s of poverty. He pictured haughty aristocracy on one side and humble poverty on the other with a yawning gulf be- tween. He pointed out the difference between affectation and true worth. lie taught the nobility to be kind to the peasant and the peasant to be happy in poverty. He never, in any of his controversies, attacked religion but always tnen. He has written his own history without reserve jn his poetns. But whatever his faults, one thing can be credited to him which may be placed against all his failings. He always conducted daily fan1ily devotional services until the day of his death. At the time when Voltaire's heretical doctrine threatened to invade England Eurns showed his strength and character, combating it to the end. It was fitting that a country's hero should champion every truth and right. When in dire poverty he was approached and asked to write his songs for a n1onetary consideration. he re- fused absolute! y and told tb.e1n, \You rnay con- sider them below price or above price, but it would be downright prostitution of sot.1l to do such a thing.\ I have two laddies of rny own and I would rather have thern kno-w one poem by Bu~ns than anything else I knovv- except a page frotn the Good Book.\ Y. Jn. ·(Q. p.. UJor~. The following leaders and subjects have been chosen by the Devotional Committee of the Y. M. C. A. for the weekly Tuesday night meetings: January 4· What ,is involved in loyalty to Christ? Luke 10: 25M3'7· WalterM. Swann, '98. January 1 r. Daily feeding on God's word. John 6 :63. Psalms 5 :3. Harrison K. Wright,'99· January 18. The secl'et of strong lives. I Corinthians 9: 25. Clayton J. Potter, 1900. January 27. Prayer, how to use and enjoy it. Luke r8 : 1-14. Orrin G. Cox, '99· February r. Lessons frotn great tnissionaries. Acts 13: 1-3, 13-33, 4z-52. Charles H. Matti- son, '98. February 8. Source of wisdom. Colossians 2:2-3. Prov. 9: 10. Edward W. Strong, '99· February 15. Conteattnent. Phillipians 4: 4-r I. George C. Perry, '98. March r. Our temptations and their con- quests. Hebrews 4: r I- r6. Frederick L. Greene, '99· March 8. How Christ helps us in our daily tasks. Colossians 3 : I 7. March 15. Purity in thought, word and deed. Titus I: rs-r6. William. L. Fisher, '98. March 22. Electionof officers. Final meet- ing of the tern1, led b.Y the retiring president, RobertS. Hoxie, '98. An urgent invitatiotil. is extended to all the students to attend these r:neetings which are held every Tuesday evening in the Y. M. C. A. rootns at 7: 15 and last for only one-half hour. If any of the leade1·s find it itnpossible to take charge of the meetings on the dates assigned to thetn, they vdll please speak to the president or to the chairman of the devotional committee and other arrangements will be made. ''Every person has two educations, one which he receives from others, and one, more im- portant, which he gives to hitnself.\;_ Gt'bbon. '·

8 THE ·OONCORDIENSIS. THE ·coN:coRDIENsrs. 'PUBLiSHED EVERY WEEIC DURING THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE 'STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. B,O.ARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEERAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. \VROOMAN '98, · Business Manager CARL HAMMER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JoHN L. SHE,RWOOD, Asst. Bus. Manager. .ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. :BRADFORD, '99, G. C. RowELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. THOMSON, 1900, D. ,V, PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAViS, 1900. TERMS: CoN CORDIENSIS, $2. 00 per Year, in Ad vance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $LOO per Year, in Advance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address aU communications to TJIE CONCORDI- ENSIS, :Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, {I2 State .Street, Schenectady, N.Y. NOTICE TO CONTIUBUTO:RS. All copy intended fer insertion in the Con- cordiensis must be in the hands of the editor by WEDNESDAY noon. THE Musical Association is undoubtedly the most important of the various undergraduate enterprises. In football and baseball Union sometimes fails and someti;mes ·wins, but in music she always takes first place. The recent western trip of the clubs has been no exception. The enthusiasti~ welcome received by the association in cities which had never before been visited shows that th.e fame of 1J nion's musicians has pre- ceded them . A western trip :will hereafter be a feature of the concert season. For the first time in the history of the association five successful concerts have been given this season before the first of January. The rnanagement has arranged several short trips for this term and as many con- certs are to be given in places where the clubs a1·e known the concerts must prove successful. N oth- ing advertises a college better or more widely than a good musical association and Union is ' gaining much [rom. the associati:on. The students showed their appreciation of the endeavors of the management and me.mbers of the clubs· by a large attendance at the .Schenectady concert. THE OoNC'O:RDIENSIS has frequently been called upon to mention the improvements in the manage- ~ 1nent. of the ][brary and the many advantages, that have been given students because of recent changes in the arrangen1ent of papers and tables and through reeent :additions of books. In placing the credit for these increased facilities the men who have planned and worked for appropriations and directed the general affairs of the library should not be overlooked. The library connnittee of the fac ul~ty, consisting of Prof. Landi~eth, chair- man, and Di·s. Truax and Ashmore, has spent much time in bringing about the present arrange- Inents and the rnernbe:rs of the con1mittee deserve the thanks of' both faculty .and students. To Prof. Landr-eth especially is due the efficient lighting system. Tll.e library is now in such a condition that it is a ple~sure for students to work there. The increased use of the library is an indicatio:Q. of the value of the appreciation shown by the students. THIS week ~s CONCORDIENSIS might perhaps be called an alu1nui number, for it contains the re- .. ports of three alumni banquets and a larger num- ber than usual of notices concerning alumni. It is son1etimes said by graduates that we do not make the Co::NCORDIENSIS of interest to them by telling what they are doing in the world. This is not our fault. We would rather publish alumni news than almost any other kind and do so when- ever we hea:t· of anything of note. 'Vhenever an alumnus dies or mardes or inherits a fortune or writes a book or joins a prominent club or society or is ele~ted to office or any of the hundred and one things that make up life occurs to him, if he or . some friendly alumnus will let the CoNCORDI- ENSIS know, w.e shall be glad to publish it. There is one of the younger trustees who sends us what- ever alumni news he can find in Greater New York. Would there.were more like·him.

. 'rHE CONO,ORDIENSIS. 9 THE decided improvement in class- room work noted by President Raymond in his remarks at chapel Tuesday morning deserves commendation. The work of last term was ha1·der than that of the corresponding term last year, yet only two-thirds the number of conditions were incurred. This . shows tbat the advance Union has made in other departments has no.t.hind,ered the students in the regular course of study,• but has aided them by adding increased zeal. That a high grade of scholai·ship should be Inaintained is ,the desire of all, and when this is done and fewe:r.· men fail than fortnerly the advisability as wellas the desirability of t~aised standards is shown. WITH this weel\: we enter upon the duties of a new te:r.·m and a new year. It is in the Winter ' term that the most effective college work is done and it is probable that there will be a great deal of healthy practical work done by the students. The financial prospect fo:t\ the new year is very bright and we can reasonably hope and wish for ourselves and others a year of great 1naterial prosperity. As 11oticed elsewhet•e, the alumni of Scranton have organized an Alumni .Association of Nor.th Eastern Pennsylvania. They -wi'll make an effort to send students to Union from that part of their state. The action is very encouraging and it were well if Union 1nen in other parts of the country should take an equally practical interest in their Alma Mater. Sopl}omor~ 8oir~e <Qomreittee. President Hu1Jbard of thE? sophomore class has announced the following soiree comn1ittee: Clarence D .. Stewart, chairman; Charles H. MacCulloch, George E. Pike, J. MacE. Pruyn, G. Wilson Francis, Harold S. Kirby, Douglas W. Paige, DeW. G .. Wood, Everett G. Brow- nell, Fred. R. Davis; Eugene M. Sanders. The comrnittee will hold its first meeting this week and expects to fix the date for the early part of February. Since the opening of the tenn on Tuesday, the familiar figure of Prof. Mosher has been rnissed by all connected :yv,ith the college. Prof. Mosher has been in poor health fo:r son1e ti·m·e, and as he realized that with the confine1nent of the class-room hiE~ ,condition was not one of im- prove·ment, he determined to give up teaching. He accordingtly sent his res~gna tion to the trus- tees, and with the final examinations of the fall term his work at Union carne to a close. Prof. Mosher was gradtlated frotn Union in the class of' 90, taik.ing the degree of .i\.. B. He then spent two years in Paris studying the French language, and upon his return in the fall of 1892 becatn.e instructor .in French at his altna mater, which position he has held up to the titne of his resignation. During his con- nection with Union. he has received two flatter- ing ofrers fro·m Rutgers College, both of which he refused, preferring to retnain here. Prof. Mosher has always been protninently identified with athletics, having been a n1ember of the baseball teatn while a student, and for the past two years one of the faculty metnbers on the Athletic Advisory Board. He was a great favorite witb the students and his de- . parture will be tnucb felt by then1 as well as his many friends in the city. Prof. and Mrs. Mosher left on Saturday, Dec. 18, for RochesteT, vvhich will be their future home. There Prof. Mosher will engage in the practice of law. fl (iift to tt}e EQQiisl} D~partmel)t. A friend of Union college, \\V hose rnodestv cotnpels hitn to conceal his identity under the phrase, \ one of the boys of '93,\ has sent to Dr. Truax a draft to enable hitn to purchase for the reference section of the college library Charles Dudley Warner's Cyclopaedia of the World's Best Litel-ature. This montunental work will be placed on the shelves at the opening of the vVinter tenn. 'fhe freshtnan pins, of ~' Green and Garnet\ have made their appearance this week.

' ' '\\\\\'\'\'\ ;j: I !l: 10 :FfffE c6:NcokbfENSiS. Dr. ·~urtis' Bota I]:ieal Cecture. On Wednesday, Dece·mber 15, at half-past four o'clock, the last lecture of the ter·m was de- livered in the chapel under the auspices of the Departm.ent of Biology by Dr. C. C. Curtis of the Department of Botany of Columbia Univer- sity. The subj:ect presented by Dr. Curtis was, H The Evolution of the Flower.\ He spoke of the types of flowers found in the various groups of flowering plants from the cones .of the pines, representing the lowest and m.ost primitive orders, to the high~y modified flowers of the Orchids and Com posits, which stand at the head · of the two branches of the series. The increas- 'ing complexity of the flower in the ascending scale was shown by diagrat.nmati:c lantern slides · and further illustrated by beautiful colored slides prepared by Mr. Cornelius Van Brunt, showit:Ig actual specitneps of the types of flowers figured in the diagratns. The representations were so natural that all who were so fortunate as to be present were delighted. '. ation as he flits from flower to flower in search of sweets. The lecture was well attended and thoroughly enjoyed by all and the kindness of Dr. Curtis in favoring us with a popular scientific lecture was warmly appreciated. The success of the occa- sion goes to show how interesting a scienHHc subject m·ay be made to a general college audi- . ence and leads to the hope that others of a like nature may follow. JHl.Ifl'\Qi rfotes. Monroe M. Cady, '66, is editor of the Phi Gamma, the monthly paper of the Second Presbyterian cln1rch of Dubuque, Iowa. ·~ Hotaling, '97, who is taking a theologi<;al course at the Colgate Divinity school, H~mil­ ton, visited old :friends at Union on Tuesda_y~ ' Furbeck, '97, was in Schenectady on New Years day. He is teaching at Martind~:de, Columbia Co., and will study theology next l year. E. R. Cumt-nin~, '97, who has been taking , post graduate work in Palaeontology at Cornell, has been appointed instructor in Palaeontology and Stratigraphic Geology at Indiana Uni· versity. At a meeting of the Schenectady Common Council held Tuesday evening, Everett Srnith, '78, was elected city attorney, Dr. John McEn· croe, '84, city physician, and Lewis B. Sebring, '93, city engineer and surveyor. Dr. vV. Seward Webb, '72, and Mrs. Webb gave a Christmas party to the children of Trinity parish and Shelburn€ Farms, Vermont. Practi- cally the whole town was present, there being 350 guests of whom 150 were children. Dr. Curtis spoke of the causes leading to the tnodification of flowers arising from the change in the tnode of pollination. The primitive forms of flowers being dependent upon the winds require a large nu rn ber of pollen-bearing sporophylls to accomplish this object as the larger part of the pollen produced is necessarily lost. The higher flowers are dependent upon insect visitation, a much surer 111eans of accomplishing fertilization by the bearing of pollen fron1 flower to flower upon the bodies of the visitors. In correspondence to this method of fertilization the higher flowers have developed nectar-glands and highly colored parts, in marked contrast to the simpler primitive forn'ls, to serve for the at- traction of insects, ·V\rhile those of individual families and orders are modified in form to A. L. Peckhatn, ;96, of Hahnetnann Medical adapt them to the visits of particular kinds of College, spent the Christmas vacation with his insects or even of single species. As the loss parents in this city. During his stay Mr. Peck- of pollen by this method is much less there has h~m entert.ained George H. H~xie, '93, who is been a reduction in the amount produced and. now supenntendent of schools 1n Penn Yan. in the number of the stan1ens. The stamens \ .. J. Bayard Backus, '74, of New York, has and styles are also so fitly placed that the insect been appointed chairman of the Sub-Cotntnittee visitor cannot fail to perform the office of polliJJ- on Enrolment of the Committee of Fifty-three, '

which is arranging for the new Republican organ.i,zation of Greater New York. A bi:o- g,raphi:cal sketch with portrait was given in the New York Tribune for December 25. ~.:~ Th.e Rev. Dr. Sheldori Jackson, '55, sailed December 25 for Norway, as a special agent of . the War Departm-ent. His errand is to buy five hundr~ed reindeer, which the government will use to forward suppHes to miners in the Yukon river valley. He win also buy outfits of s~eds and harness and hire several drivers who will return with him. The Johns Hopkins News Letter recently offet'ed a prize of $ro for the best collection of . verses, not to exceed thirty lines, written by a student at the University. Two cotnpetitors were of .such equal merit that the prize was divided, half being given to Roger G. Perldns, '94, who is a senior in the Medical College. His verses were en titled \Voices of theW oods.\ General Roy Stone, '56, acting president of , - the National League for Good Roads, has a 4 plan for making postal savings banks and good -roads promote each other. The scheme is to have the deposits in the proposed banks invested.· in county bonds for the building of good roads. The idea is backed by the L. A. W. and otl1er road im provetnent associations and has been em,ib.Qdied in an atnendment to the Postal Savings bill. ....., Arba Martin Blodgett, '97, who was sub- stitute on the 'Varsity foot baH team during the seasons of '93 and '94 and right guard in '95 and \96~ was married in the early part of Sep- tember last to Miss Minnie A. Alderman, of Thurston, N. Y. Mrs. Blodgett is a charming young woman and previous to her marriage was a teacher in the Starkey Seminary. Mr. Blodgett is tiow principal of the Fifth ward public school at Corning, N. Y., and his wife is assisting him in the Gennan departtnent of the school. The Musical association gives a concert in Albany to-night. This afternoon the members are being entertained by Mrs. Albert Van der Veer. 1i Kulser, 1901, enjoyed the, vacation in New York. Laing, 1901, passed the vacation at his home in Andes. Prof. Wells has giv,en up his senior elective in Ger-tnan. Guy Vroman, '98, is ill at his home in Middleburg. Finger, rgor, spent the holidays at his home ' in Saugerties. Fred. M. Davis, 1900, spent his vacation in New York city. Sheehan, rgor, returned to his home at Troy, for the holidays. Heen11ance, 1901, spent the vacation at his home in Hudson. Wright, 1901, enjoyed the holidays with his parents at Andes. The sophomore class hegin the study of Chaucer this term. Grout, 1901, spent the vacation with his par- ents at Cooperstown. Cheeseborough, 1901, spent the holidays with friends in New York. Wagoner, rgor, passed an enjoyable vacation at his home in Albany. William C. Yates, '98, spent part of the vaca- tion with friends in Rochester. Ames, ex-'97, has re-entered college and will take the rest of the year with 'g8. Prof. Truax gives an elective in American literature this term to the seniors. Giles, '97, has a position with the U. S. ship canal survey and is located at Cohoes. McPartlon, ex-rgoo, is pursuing a four year course at the Albany Medical College. Dr. Raymond occupied the pulpit of Broad- way Tabernacle, New York, last Sunday. Elvin S. Ketchum has returned to college and -resutnes his studies with the class of 1900. Owing to an attack of the grip P. P. Sheehan was unable to attend to college duHes this week. Aagust Kruesi, '98, and Paul Kruesi, I 900, attended the annual convention of the Sigma Phi fraternity in the Waldorf Astoria hotel in New . York, this week.

i2 ~ADVERTISEMENTS.--------- ,...---·-------------· ----· - .. ---··-~-- . ___ .., ~---·-·d•- ··-------·---·-· _-. -~- Gayetty, '98, has left college to accept a posi- tion as rodman on the canal and is located at INSURANCE, Syracuse. EVERY DES,CRIPTION, A speoial tneeting of the t~rustees of Union College has been called on January 15th, 1898, inAibany. ·s. CLE'V:EL.AND S,LOA:N,, Van Duesen, '96, has been appointed rocln1an by the ~ta~te civil service and is working on the 424 STA.'TE STREET. canal at Rochester. Prof. Bennett spent a week in Boston and several days at Haverhill, Mass., at the hotne of Instructor Pollard. Slocun1, '97, who is studying tnathernatic~ at Cbrke university, Worcester, Mass., spent his vacation with his parents in this city. Instructor Tyler spent the vacation at Lafay- ette, assisting in the reorganization of the botani- cal collections that were datnaged in the destruc- tion of Pardee hall. No instructor has, as yet, been selected to fill Prof. Mosher's lately vacated position. His class work will be divided an1ong the other pro- fessors of the 1nodern language departrnent. W'ho is • • 'il Cm GOETZ? The only TaBor in Sehenectad y who ilnports goods direct frotn England. .J nst received a large assortu1ent for Fall and \Tinter. CAI .. L AND SEE ''l'I-IEl~a. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Hatn, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. BO'THf\M, 214 CLINTON 81'. KEELE R'S---·-·•a.• •• EUROPEAN •• HOTEL Jlfi:f) ~REST JIURJI.N~T, Broadway and 1\iaiden Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. • .. , • • QENTLEMEN OiiLT. 250 ROOI1.S. • . • Ladies Restaurant Attached • . • • • 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. V~ILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROA,DWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- kJJ.T1 &nd ~team C!Ieaning and TJyeing W OJ:~s. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-cla.~s work guaranteed. Goods <'allrd for and delivered free of charge. cJ ?\GOB Rl N DFLEISCH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. . .. HIGH G,RF\DE SHOES .. Open until9 P.M. Work done at short notice. -AT LOWEST PRICES.- - 245 State St. PATTON & HALL.,

-ADVERTISEME'NTS.- 13 JOHN COSGRAVE. J obn Cosgrave, the well-known athlete, died in Albany on Dec. 26. ~n the years 1894 and r895 Cosgrave held the aU-around atnateur cl1ampionship of Atnerica. He did not corn- pete in i 896, hut last year was beaten at Boston by Ellery Clark, the present champion. His farne did notcotne alone for his all-around work, as in r895 he broke the vvorld's record for the hop, step and jump, the distance be coY- ,ered being 30 feet, I I inches, which is .the pre.sent world's record. Cosgrave was vvell known among Union n1en. He coached last spring's track tean1 and the credit for the brilliant victory at Utica was due to him tno1·e than to any other man. He will be rernetnbered by Union men as a picture of perfect manhood, a genial and whole- ' souled fellow of a cheerful and kindly disposi- tion. 'The direct cause of his death vvas an operation perfonned upon hin1 for appendicitis. Organized 1858. Im~orpora ted. Jos. KLEIN, The large.st member~hip. of I LoUIS HINKEL:MAN, Director . any mu~wal orgamzat10n Manager. · · mAlbany. lOTH REGT. 1\IILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. Thi~ organization has for years played at Union, HamiltoR, Cornell, Williams, :Middlebury, etc. FurniRhed 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, .Jan. 7, '97. Colleg-e Comnlenee- ments, Receptions, ·weddings Balls, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. HINKELMAN, Mg-r., Telephone 1240. 75 Rtate St .• Albany. ~~~IE~ ~ ~~rfiff\ll~ii~(0Jrr,35 ~ . -= ~ and other cut flowers \ constantly on hand ....• AM~ GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE 8'1.,1-tEET. POPULAR FLORI.STS. CHRYSANTHEMUMS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 30 NORTH PEARL STREET. ALBANY, N. Y . -~-CURLEY, ·514 FULTON ST., TR'OY, N. Y. Largest rlianufacturers in An1erica . I I I • • . of Engineers' an.d Surveyors' Instruments. Also dealers in Dnt·win~~ I ustrun1ents and Materials. -.~~EfHYLE & S0N, ~ :::.; ....................................................... ........... ' * TI-lE DELAVAN, The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE UNE1(CELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards. Ellropean Plan, Hoom:s, 75c ami Up'vvards. S. D. WYATT~ 80., E. :M. MOORE, Ma11ager. E. C. HARTLEY, \The Union St Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral 'Vaters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Oakes and Crackers. ... r+-------L. D. TELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.

14 -ADVERTJSEMENTS.- Yates' B:oat House. The Ta11gest a11.d best equipped in. the .State. E:x:cel- lent Dancing Ha11, which can be rented ·for Pl'ivate Parties Only, :tn connection with house. 29 Front Str-eet, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. CO AL-----•••••'1#'..,...- The Celebrated D. L. & 1W. Coal, for sale by VEEf).ER B~Rr08., Na. 424 STATE STREE~T. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), ~ PHOTOGRAPHER, A and dealer in Cameras and !Photographic Supplies. S~UDIO, JAY STREET. First-class \'ork done at the Studio for p(\\~pular prices. SpeC'ial attention given to out-of-d()or grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. ~96 Broadway, ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 4:82. Union College, '91 to '97 Hamilton CollegE~, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams' Colle~e, '91 to '97' Cornell Univei'Slty., •90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, \94 to '97 J3Ji~J-.['YTEl ~ DE1tENFEC:l\, • ~- wholesale and Retail Dealers in ..... eO}lL ai]d WeeD IJime, Cement~ Pla.Rter, Hair, Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Uui()n, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 a.nd 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. ... FLORISTS ... • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L,. 'T. CL.;UTE, •a :a ·:HATTER AND .FURRIE:R. I Alsa, T'J•unks, Bags, lituit Cases, Gloves, Umbrellas, Oanes, .Etc. 227 81' A'\nE ST.R EEl'. At, .. T·HoMAs' Music SToRE Na. 15 NORTH PEAR.L ST., ALBANY, N.Y. Yo11 wiH find the WASH:BUH,N King of MandoliNs Guitar~, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings: Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION COLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ..... THOMAS HAS TH,E BEST . EMBOSSED_,,,,.~~~~~~~.~~ UNION COLLEGE BY THE QuIRE, ENVELOPES, NO~fE HEADS, 100 OR 1000. + lfl NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 412 STATE STREET. W.m. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall Street, SCBEN.ECTA.DY, N. Y.

-ADVERTISEMEN'TS.- 15 Supplies, SpaJding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for sam.ple8 and special rates. Every req ui- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gymnasium Equipments and Out- fits. Cornplete Catalogue of spring and Sununer Sports free. ''The Nante.~the auaran tee. \ WI EN C K Ei'S-------.a r)omEu GE~MAN IA AND ~ESJ11'ArJ~ANT11. BILLIARDS, POOL .AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty St. BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSOHA UM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S CENTRAL PHARMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Merchant Ta,ilor. · No. 28'1 State St., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CH'AUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD H. FRENCH. l:fNieN eOLLESE BE)OK EXeJi}lNSE. All College Texts, Draughting Instruments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college supplies. ,prc·KFOR:D B.ROS., Union 'Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTRY. ~~Game in season. Telephone 38~3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. F ried1nan Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SouTH CENTRE ST. Wholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND OL.AMS, · 102 So. CENTRE ST. Conunission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. :~.~ ... SCHENECTADY CLOTHING- CO., ••. THE LEADING .•• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 S.tate Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICJ{. UN'ION RES,TAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery alld Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

' 16 -ADVERTISEMENTS.- TJ1E ONLY FLORISTS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. n c. Avs'TIN ENGRAVING GO., ~ .J. • ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. :Photo. Engravers, IlJustratOrR and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etching and Phusochrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. Men's • Furnishing Goods. Sole agent for IIANAN & St)N MEN'S SHOES. AIJSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 ]faiden. Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. Fall Fashions and Fabrics Ready f(i)r your inspection at JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. ,INTERCOLLEGIATE .BUBEA'C' FoR CAPS, :GOWNS & HOODS. IllYstrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. OO'l'TRELL & LEONARD, 472-478 B'way. ALBANY, N.Y. F. A. Vnn Vranken. F. VanVranken. VF\N VRf\N,KEN BROS., IMI_()Q~JDING <9AIUO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL ST., Notman Building. ALBANY, N. Y. R, T. MOIR,. ..._ 218 William St=, New York BOOKS, FINE STATIONERY, PICTUR~. FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, ETC. ALWAYS READY RINTER E.XRES & RQSES, - GU'Y ,fLOWERS FURNISHED R'T SHORI' NOTIGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-class. No. 11 No. Pearl St., Albany, N.Y. STEAMSHIP .AGENCY. . . •. 388 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. READY 1-,0R FALL OLO'THING FOR .ALL IIEAD-TO-FO:OT. ALBANY, N.Y. ~sAUL.

T 'h . I .' ,~'.:! ·e· : . . . ; '. . Concordiensis. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WE:EI<LY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLECE, SCHE.NECTADY, N. y I JANUARY 15, 1898. No. 13.

--ADVERTISEMENTS - ANDiiW V. V.ltAYHOND, D~ !>., LL, D,, Prerdelent. UNlON COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B.-The usual Classical Course, including French and German. After Soplw- more year the work is largely ,elective. 2. Course Lea~lingto theDe,greeofB. S.--'Tbe modern languages are substituted for the at1cient and the amount of Mathematics and English studies is increased. After the Sophomore year a. large list of electives is offered. 3, Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. n.___:This differs from the A. B. course chiefly in. the ornis<;ion of Greek and the sabstitution therefor of additional work in modern lan~uages and science. 4, General Course Lea<ling to tbe Degree of B. E.- This course is intended to give the basis of an Engineering education, including the fundamental principles of all special branchea of the profession, a knowledge .of both F11ench and German, and a full cou,rse in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in sufustituting special work in Sanita.ry Eng-ineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec~ tricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering- Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are al!o special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallur~y and Natural History. For catalogue3 or for special information address BENJAMIN H. lUPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical Collegc.-Terrn commences last Tues- day in September. Three years ~trictly graded course. In- structioJu by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical advantage~ excellent. Ex:penses.-Matriculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, SlOO: perpetual ticket, $250: graduation fee, $25; dissectin~ fee, $10; laboratory course. each, $10. For circular address \'WTLLIS G. TUCKEH, U. D., Re~istrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. A.,lbany Law School.-This department is located at Albany~ ne~r the State Capitol .. It occupies a .b~ildin~ wholly devotee to 1ts use. The eourse IS one year, divided mto two iemesters. Expenses.-Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For ~a.ta.logue~ or other information, address J. NEWTON FIEHO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. E:xerciaea held in A.lbany lfedical Colle~e. Annual lecture term commence& Monday, Oct. 5. For cataloc-ue a.nd informa- tion ~ddreu DEBAUN VAN .AKEN,-Ph. G., ~ecretary, ~ ~~ Hl\milton St. Gentleme11 • • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and il!llOSt Inodern Boot, Shoe and RNbber Eruporium in New York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 STA'l'E ST., COR. WALL. '' :Honest Goods at Honest Prices.\ BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the ~ure6t oft Brug6 AT LYON'S DRUG .STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. €>HE ... €DISON I)OrrtEL, •====· Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, a1td the Largest attd Best Appointed Hotel ·in the ct\ty. Headquarters for Commercial Traveller-s and TDun\sts GHAS. BROWN, PROPRIE'TOR.

= The Co11cordiellsis VoL. xxr. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 15, 1898. No. 13. The Musical Association gave its annual Albany conceit iast Friday evening in Odd Fel- lows' Hall. 1'hat it was an unqualified success financially, tnusically, socially, goes without say- ing. A comlrnittee of prominent alumni did all they could to aid Manager Sinclair in the disposal of tickets andth.e result was a more successful con- cert than our clubs had ever before given in Albany. During the afternoon the members of the association were entertained by Mrs. Albert Vander Veer at her hotne at the corner of State and Eagle streets. Mrs. Vander Veer was as- sisted in receiving by this year's debutantes: Miss May ICing, Miss Ruby Newcotnb, Miss Margaret 1'ucker, Miss Dorothy Kernochan, Miss Alice Treadwell, Miss Julia Gardner, Miss Ethel Van Benthuysen, Miss I{atberine Norton, Miss Edith Easton, Miss Gertrude Sanl, Miss Ruth Pruyn, Miss Tillinghast, J\tlissMiller, Miss Banks. Tea was dispensed by Mrs. Stott and Mrs. 0. M. Benedict. When the clubs catne on the platfonn of Odd Fellows' HaH, they were greeted with a stonn of applause. The audience, which filled the hall, was con1posed largely of young people, of whon1 the g1·eater portion were young ladies. Albany is deservedly famous for its pretty girls and it seems no exaggeration to say that every one graced the occasion by her presence. The clubs were never in better condition than on Friday evening and as each nurnber was con- cluded, the audience enthusiastically dernanded an enco1·e until the musicians were suffused with blushes. All the clubs outdid themselves on this occasion and individual excellence served to make this concert an exceedingly delightful affah. At the conclusion of the progratn, the tnetn- bers were entertained at the Fort Orange Club. Fort Orange Club men are right royal hosts and a merry time was· enjoyed which will be re- · garded by those present as atuple reward for many hours of faithful practice. 59·e Citerary SO\i~ti es. The Adelphics and Philomatheans are meeting Thursday evening of each week and holding de- bates on some phase of the general subject of the Allison-Foote debate : Resolved that muni- cipalities should be governed by municipal parties. The Adelphics have chosen Swann, '98, Nelson, '98, and Cullen, '98, as debaters. The Philomathean debaters are W. D. Reed, '98, Holcombe, '98, and Sheehan, '98. The annual debate between the two societies vvill take place February 17. An unusual amount of interest is being taken by both societies, as until last year the Adelphics have been successful in winning the prizes. At that ritne CuUen, '98, an Adelphic, won the prize for the best individ- ual debate, while the Philomathean Society carried away the laurels for the best debate as a society. The debate pro1uises to be of unusual interest as the debaters of each society are conceded by disinterested parties to be very evenly matched. Too n1uch cannot be said in support of these grand old institutions. Five years since the Garnet was authority ior the statement that they had become a thing of the past. Present cir- cutnstances make this statement ridiculous. While they may not thrive as they did in their palrny days before fraternities had been founded to such an extent, they are still a potent factor in college life. Since prizes were offered three years ago new interest has been awakened which pron1ises to rival that of former days. Their utility cannot be questioned, as they stimulate a phase of work too much overlooked in the educational systems of the day. The present support of them by the undergraduate body speal<s well for their con- tinuance. If the past may be used as a criterion, their dismetnberment is yet a long way off. At a recent tneeting the Adelphic Society elected the following officers for the winter term: President, E. H. Rodgers, '98; vice- president, W. H. Breeze, '99; secretary, G. E. Raitt, 1900; treasurer, J. M. Tuggey, 1900; curators, Sheehan, 1901, Slack, 1901. ·

4 Saturday, Jan. 8, the next to the last enter- The annual mid-winter athletic rneet of the tainn1ent iH the course given for the benefit of :, year will take place son.'}e time during the m·onth the Schenectady Free Library was given in the ' of February. The place has not yet been de- First Refonned church. Jvir. Anthony Hope cided upon. Ha\-vkins, who has achieved such a protninent The records of the fall meet show that there place among the prose authors of today over the i:s good athleHc materiai in Union ·college, but signature of Anthony Hope was introduced by the winners of the events should not be content President Rayrnond and very enjoyably enter- to let those records stand; by hard, persistent tained a large and cultivated audience by reading training they should ,endeavor to break thetn, selections frotn his own writings. and win honor for thetnselves and for the l-Ie read \The Philosopher of the Apple coUege. Orchard,\ the chapter fi·otn \The Pdsoner of The success of the intercollegiate n1.eet next Zenda,\ entitled \If Love were all,\ and June depends upon the athletic work done by selections fro1n \The Dolly Dialogues,\ en- the college ·during the remainder of the year. titled \Cordial Relations,\ \ Retribution,\ \A The other colleges will put forth their best Siligbt Mistake,\ and \A Very Dull Affair.\ efforts to defeat Union, and if we carry off the Anthony }lope is not an elocutionist but with pennant again this year, all the more glory vvill his clear, f\11l voice and stnooth, etnphatic 1nan- he our due. ner he is what 1nay be called a natural reader, The gymnasiutn has been refitted and every carrying his listeners vvith hirn and revealing 111an who thinks he can do any kind of athletic the fine delicacies of htnnor and pathos by the work tnust con1e out and train. Even if a tnan voice as well as hy the text. He uses few ges- wins no place in the events, he will show his tures and but few obtrusions of self into the good will by con1ing out, he vvill build up his spirit of the subject. One closes his eyes and O\Vn body, and his efforts to gain a place will is equally as vvell entertained as he who watches inspire the rest with enthusiasm and better re- every 1noven1ent of the reader. suits will be accomplished. The audience, while keenly enjoying the This is the best of weather for training. It is emotions produced by the turns of hutnor or too cold to retnain standing, and exercise will pathos in the readings, was not disposed to be tnake the blood tingle. Students are apt to detnonstrative in their appreciation. 'rhis was spend too tnuch time indoors during the winter, due, perhaps, to the quality of Mr. Hope's and an hour's training in the gytnnasiun1 every hun1or and pathos. T'he eHect of his hun1or is afternoon will itnprove the condition of every to leave one in such an agreeable state of tran- man. quil an1use1nent as to preclude any idea of out- rfhat nothing permanent can be accomplished ward expression except, perhaps, a faint, fleet- except by persistent labor is equally true in ing smile. I-lis pathos is so genuine and so study and in track athletics. There are few natural that one's sytnpathies are so tnuch college men who cannot spare sotne titne for aroused that one is surprised to find thetn so exercise each day ; so let each tnan fet=--1 that the abundant in his own nature. success of the mid-winter n1eet depends upon Mr. Hope, personally, is a plain, smooth- ;:~ ;~::~Jf t~~~ ~~-i~~m;~~ ~~~ 8 1 :::~~- C£~~~ faced, serious young Englishman. I-Iis manner up those who have done athletic work and bring is quiet, precise, unassun1ing and thoughtful. thetn out into the gymnasium. Let there be Should he again visit Schenectady before return- enthusiasm throughout the college and an estab- ing home to England, he will be cordially wei- lishrnent of nevv records that will surprise the other colleges. Let there be strong cotnpetition cotned by those w hotn he so channingly enter- and hard work and the cotning meet will be a tainecl Saturday evening and also by tnany who success and the intercollegiate meet in the spring have since t~egretted not hearing him. will again be won by Union.

y c s s s ·TfiE ,OONOORDIENSIS. 5 <5~~ 8uQday ftfterQOOQ Service. At the tn:eeting of theY. M. C. A. on Sunday afternoon, Dr. Raymond addressed the students, taking .as his text, '\ l nu1st work the works of Him that sent tne, while it is day.\ l-Ie said in part: Christ said :this of hin1self, but since vve sh,~uld say of ourselves whatever Christ says of hin1self, the words ba ve a very personal applica- tion to Christians. In choo,sing this text for the first afternoon meeting of tbe year, we desire to give living and practical force to the purpose which made Cl~rist's vvork so rnanifestly divine. To our Lord it was a recognized obli- gation of manhood that he n1ust 'vorlc With sotne this truth runs counter to their idea of blessedness. But desire for idleness, so far as it rneans longing for rest, is but a result of ex- hausted nerves and will disappear with the re- turn of normal vigor. But if one thinks of vvork as a curse, it indicates a lack of the fir~t elements of tnanly character, the lack that we find in the typical tramp. It is hard to sympa- thize with such a man, for we see in him noth- ing worthy of respect; not because of his rags and dirt, but because of the absence of this funda- mental virtue, which shows more than any other the difference between a man and a tnere anin1al. But the tramp nature is not alvvays distinguish- able by the accessories of poverty. One whose only thought is his own ease, who feels no obli- gation to use his powers for other ends, is full brother to the man in rags who meets hin1 on the street with a request for food, drink, and a night's lodging, Both are parasites. ,Carlyle hafl said \ the epic of our times is not, an11s and the man, but, tools and the tnan, an infinitely wider kind of epic.\ But we tnust not glorify the mere exercise of energy. Much as we adtnire activity, we sotne- how reserve judgment until we know for what end the tnan works. Idleness is only one fonn of selfishness. If a brother of the typical tran1p is the rich man who does no work, then his half brother is the tnan who, however much he may work, works for the satne end, hin1self. Christ did not stop after, ''I rnust work,\ but con1- pleted his words with, \The works of Him that sent rne.\ This brought the matter fro1n abstract to concrete. He had discovered a n1an born blind. After rebuking the irrelevancy of the questions put by the Pharisees, he healed H1<e hlind 1nan, showing how itnportan.t he considered ministry, \vhicb sbo.uld he the purpose and end of all activity. '\fhe particular form is not so irnpott- ant as the fact that it ,must be t:ninistry. There is yet a deeper rneaning in Christ's words. Many would think they do God service, if they fling the blind beggar a coin. Christ \vent to the root of his poverty and tnade hitn able to earn his owt~ coins. 1\'he divine way of rneeting an appeal of wide spread suffering is not a relief fund, but en1ploytn.ent. Arnong m,en in such a case, if work can not be found it should be made, though it is harder than ahns giving ; not the easiest thing but the best. Our n1ission as sons of God and workers together with God is to address ourselves to the deepest needs of hutnanity, to bear the sin and suftering and sorro\-V and unbelief of others on our hearts, till feeling with them and for them \-Ve are able to give thern peace and triumphant faith. Sopt}omort{ 8oiree. The Sophomore Soiree Con11nitte held its first n1eeting at the Alpha Delta Phi house, Monday, Jan. 10. The date decided on was Feb. 18, the Friday before Lent, and the place the Van Cur- ler. The following sub-cotntnittees were ap- pointed: Printing-Francis, chairman ; Gage, Law- rence. Refreslunent-Kirby, chairman; Francis, Wood. Patroness-Paige, chairman; Brownell, Mac- Culloch. Music-Lawrence, chainnan ; Paige, Carriage- MacCulloch, chairman; Pike. Kirby. Davis, Finance-Stewart, chainnan ; Francis, Kirby. The meeting was then adjourned. MacMillan, '98, and Jones, '98, have returned to college after a term's absence.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUI!LISHED EVERY WEEK DURING THK COLLEGE YEAR, ::S.y THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOM:A.N, '98, - Business Manager C.ARL HAMMER, '98, - - - - - News Editor JOHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. MaR.ager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. T. BRADFORD, '99, Eh C. ROWELL, '99, H. K. WRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STAFF. Lours TINNING, 1900, P. L. THoMsoN, 1900, D. ,V, PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TERMS: C'ONCORDIENSIS, $2. 00 per Year, in Ad vance Single Copies, - 10 Cents J> .ARTHENON, $1. 00 per Year, in Ad vance :Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. .Address all communications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 412 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. THE enthusiastic reception given the concert of the Mnsical Association at Albany last Friday night is a token of the popularity of that organiza- tion with those who know its worth. Albanians have always supported well the annual concert of the association and they regard it as one of the chief events in the musical life of the capital city. '1HE request that was 1nade at the last college meeting for the speedy payn1ent of all outstanding subscriptions deserves attention. Good nlanage- rnent and good playing are essential elements of every athletic contest, but neither of these can be expected unless hearty financial support is given by the students. The expenses of each season are carefully estimated and the arnount subscribed is taken as the basis of expenditure. Failure to pay promptly all subscriptions hinders the management and th~s seriously affects the teants. The Athletic Board will not sanction any schedule until all bills for the preceding season are paid. A prompt re- sponse to the appeal of the managers will insure the financial success of the coming season. IN track athletics the prospect .for this year is as bright as ever. Union has neve;r been forced to take an inferior position in this branch of athletics, bat has invariably equaled and surpassed neigh- boring colleges of her size. The gymnasium has been thoroughly re:novated and the facilities for training are better than they have been in previous years. All that is needed is the spirit of work, the spirit that. sacrifices personal pleasure to the good of the college. With conscientious, regular train- ing almost any able-bodied man can succeed in track athletics, and individual work counts here even more than in basel>aJl or football. Union needs n1en who will devote time and energy to pr,eparation, for only by careful individual train- ing can a team hope to win. MUCH comn1ent has been caused by the assertion of President Harper, of Chicago University, that the poor quality of food furnished by Chicago boarding houses has brought about the death of several students. Although the statement seems sensational, there must be some truth in it. Presi- dent Harper does not usually speak rashly. May not the method he proposes for obviating this difficulty be worthy of thought~ Many colleges have found a co1nmons at which all the students can obtain good food and plenty of it, a profitable financial venture as well as an econon1ic ad- vantage. The suggestion that a cornn1ons be established at Union is not new, but those in authority nlight find it practicable if they once put it to the test. THE decadence of literary societies in colleges has been a favorite theine for the pessimist. Un- doubtedly there was for many years a lack of interest in public debate, but that was only temporary. Today public debates between col- l@ges and college societies are ordinary occurrences. 1\iore attention is paid by the public to oratorial contests than to any other feature of the intel- lectual life of colleges. Prize debates and oratori- cal contests at Union have invariably drawn large audiences. This tenn. an especial treat is reserved for Union in the inter-collegiate oratorical contest between Rochester, .Syracuse and Union. All who recognize the importance of such contests should support theu1 by their patronage. May the tiine never come when interest in oratory or debate shall cease.

'THE CON·OORDIEN:SlS. 7 /niQor fopi·G5. R. H. Rogers, '99, has left college. W. D. Hodgson, 1901, is ill at his home in :Binghamton, N .. Y. Dr. Charles P. Linhart has been elected vice~ pr:esident of the Association of Physical Directors. E. S. C. Harris, '86, has recently accepted the /position of Superintendent of Schools of Poughkeepsie, N.Y. · Chas. A. Marvin, '87,. returned last ·vveek from the west and has begun the practice of law in BaUston Spa, N. Y. Orson Richards, '95, has secured a position as inspe~tor on the state canal. He is at present located at Fort Edward. · Paul J. Strohauer, '97, now in the New Brunswick Theological Seminary, was in town lately looking up old friends. Prof. Sidney G. Ashmore delivered a lecture illustrated by lantern slides before the Fortnightly club in the college chapel, Monday. fil ot~s from Otl]~r <eoH~9es .. Tbe l.iegistration at Princeton this year is ro65, zo rnore than last year. VVork has been recommenced on the new library of the University of Wisconsin. The Yale Musical Clubs are taking a three • weeks' trip, going as far west as D.enver·. The trustees of Arnherst College have decided · to addto the curriculutn a course in tnl!lsic. For the fourth successive time Harvard has defeated Columbia, Princeton and Yai!e, in the order natned, in the contest for the inter• · collegiate chess chan1pionship. The University of Pennsylvania has estab- . lished a publication fund to defray t:lie expense . of printing original contributions by members of · the faculty. For the third successive time, Yale l1as won . the annual Yale-Harvard debate. Yale took The next regular meeting of the board of · the negative side of the question, which was, trustees will be held in Albany, January 25, not . \Resolved That the United States s'h.ould an- January 15 as erroneously announced. . nex the Hawaiian Islands.\ Gov. Black has been asked to speak at the . banquet of the Northeastern New York Alun1ni Association to be held in Albany at the Hotel Kenmore, January 28, 1898. H. C. Allen, ex-'98, is one of the eight con- testants in the prelirninary debate to detern1ine the Cornell debaters in the annual Cornell- Pennsylvania debate, to be held at Ithaca in March. A large number of alumni and a few students attended last night the semi-public installation of the re-elected officers of St. George's Lodge, No. 6, F. and A. M., bv the officers of the ·Grand Lodge of New York. Prof. Sidney G. Ashmore attended, on Wednesday, the marriage of his sister, Mrs. Pasco I St. Leger Grenfell, formerly Mrs. Charles Ashmore, nee MiEs Isabel Ashmore, to Mr. William Schall, Jr., at the residence of her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Ashtnore, 102 Waverly Place, New York. The Philomathean society met vVednesday evening and elected officers as follows: Presi- dent, William L. Fisher, '98 ; vice-president, M. G. Thomas, '98; secretary, E. R~ Cullings., 19oo; treasurer, J. N. Vander Veer, '99; curator, Cheeseborough, 1901. The Cornell alumni of New York. City have formed a pern1anent organization with club roon1s in the Royalton. The real purpose of the rnoven1ent is to have an active graduate member of the athletic council. Lafayette has suffered a severe loss in the burning of the scientific building of the college, Pardee Hall. The insurance is $145,ooo, but the total loss will be over $roo,ooo, many valu- able collections having been destroyed. The Rev. T. K. Cheyne, M. A . ., D. D., Oriel Professor of the Interpretation of ~oly Scripture at Oxford, is giving a series of six lectures on \ Jewish Religion and Religious Life after the Exile,\ at the University of Penn- sylvania. At their last meeting, the trustees of Prince- ton University passed a resolution to enforce an old rule of the university which pro hi bits students from frequenting any place where intoxicating liquors are sold. The action is aitned principally . at .the now fatuous grill l'Ootn of the Princeton

8 -ADVERTISEMENTS.------ Inn, and was brought about chiefly through the .efforts of the New Brunswick Svnod of the ...,. Presbyterian Church. vVholesale distnissions have been n1ade at Leland Stanford, Jr., University forimtnorality, vulgarity, and inferiority in college work. Forty-one students have been dropped, who had distinguished themselves by drinking, carousing and parading the streets of San Fran- cisco, and rnaking thenaselves generaHy offensive when the Stanford 'Varsity defeated the Cali- fornia State University tea1n on Thanksgiving day. These dismissals ~n~e in accord with the policy recently announced by .President Jordan, W. tc L. E. CU RL.EY, 514 FULTON ST., TROY, N. Y~ Largest Manufacturers in Am~erica .. • I I I I . of Engineers\ and Surveyo:rs' Instruments, Also dealers in Drawing Iustrun1ents and Materials. ~BAYLE & S0N, • ~ ................................................ \ * who stated that idle and dissolute students are a ' E!tCiRJIVE~J, hindrance to good work by the industrious. Organized 1858. Incorporated. J os. KLEIN, The large.st member~hi~ of I Lours HINKELMAN, · Director any mu~ICal orgamzat1on Manager. · m Albany. lOTH REGT. MILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, Hamilton, Cornell, \Villiams, Middlebury,. etc. Furnished 50 men .for State Ball at Aru::wry, Albany, Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddings, Balls, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Ad<h·ess, LOUIS F. HINKELMAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240, 75 State St., Albany. 1~5f5 -~ (#1Jlf{~di]lf~JNI~ and othe:::flowers ~ constantly on band .•••• hr · GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Hen ted and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. G®kDRIN.GS~ POPULAR FLORISTS. -- . -- \ CHRYSANTHEMHMS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 80 NORTH PEARL STREET. AL.,BANY, N.Y. * ..-------f\LB.RNY, N. Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City witlt FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. 8. D. WYATT ~ 80., E. M. MOORE, Manager. E. G. HARTLEY, \The Union 'St. Grocer.\ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Oakes .and Crackers. L. D. TELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET.,

______....... · AbVER'ftS:n1MENTS.- ~ 8o,ioloq'ieai t:ibrary. The senior class in sociology, under the direction of Instructor Jones, will not ~confine themselves to text books d:aring the remainder of the year. Each member will contribute a minitnum of fifty cents,. and with this amount reference books wiU be bought for the use of the class. These will be suppletnented by Dr. Jones' library and som,e books from the:. elepart· ment, and the collection win he reset·ved for the members of the class. The tri-college oratorical ,contest between ~the universities of Rochester, Syracuse and Union will be held in Schenectady early in March. 1:'he prelhninary trial will be held about a tnonth earlier. This is open to any regular student who has no .conditions, and is a tnetnber of one of the literary societies. Who is .•. C. GOETZ? 'l\~he only Tailor in Schenectady who hnports goods direct fron1 England. Just receiv·ed a large a~sortment fo1· Fall and Winter. CALL AND SEE THEM. INSURANCE, EVERY DESCR'IP'TION, B. CLEVELAND S.LOAN, -~~4 ·STA·TE STREET. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Hatn, Pies, CoHee and Mille C. E. B01\'HAM 214 CLINTON 81'. KEELER'S----••L • • EUROPEAN .. HOTEL AND RE5TAURA'NT, Broadway.and Maiden Lane,. ALBANY,N.Y. ~ • • QEHTLEMEN ONLY. 250 ROOMS. • •• I~adies Restaurailt Attacl1ed •.• • • 3 Central Arcade, SOHENECrrADY,N.Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN- k)p;( and pbeam elea.nin.g and k)}\ein~ W Ol'~S. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-clais work guaranteed. Goods call<:'d for and delivered free of· charge. cJAGOB RINDFLEISGH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECrrADY, N. Y. II HIGH GRADE SHOES II ·. -AT LOWEST PRICES.- Open until9 P •. M. Work.dmte at ·s-hort no.tiee. 246 state st. PATTON & HALL.

io Yates' B,oat House. The largest arid best equipped in the State. Excel- lent Dancing Hall, which ·can be rented for Private PartieR Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 'CO· ·A·. L· ------·•-••••·........-- ·- ____ .. - The Celebrated D. L. & W. Coal, for sale by VEE[)ER BROS., No. 4-24 STATE STREET. ]A. }t. Sef\}lFFef\B, (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), 6. PHOTOGH.APHER, A and dealer in Cameras and Photographic Supplies. S'rUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class '\Vork done at the Studio for P< 'Pular prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. -4:96 Broadway, ALBANY, N. Y. Telephone 482. Union College, ,91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '96 Governor's Mansion, ,94: to '97 . J3Ji~]'iyTE ~ DE1!E)'iFE:(!I(, • ~~ Wholesale and Hetail Dealers in .... eO}lL aQd WeeD Lime, Cem('nt, Plaster, Hair, :Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union, Feed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. • ade ~ lo., ... FLORISTS ... • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE, ..... HATTER AN'D F·U.RRIER. Also, T'l•unks,. Bags 11 lihtU Oases, Glove8, Umbrella6, Oanes, .Etc. 227 81' A 1'E 81'R E E'f. At .. THoMAs' Music SriORE No. 1.5 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos:a,:nd Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION CoLT..iEG:E: boys' trade is solicited aud a dis- count offered, Fxaternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. ••••• l'H,OMAS HAS THE BEST. E MBO SSE D-ii\IIILTIII'II.III UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. lfc 1ft NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. ~ CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 41'2·STATE STREET • Wm. D·,obermann, Caterer for We~dings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 WaJl street, SCHENECTADY, ·N, Y.

, ----ADVERTISEMENTS.- 11 -=================================~=============================~=== 5~5E D~LL Supplies,. :Spalding League Ba.Tli. Mits, Ma~ks, e,to. Managers shou1'd seud for ,samples and speciaJ 1·ates. E.very requi- site for Tennis, Golf, Cricket, Track and Fie~d, ·Gymnasium. Equipm·en:ts a}:td Out- ftts. Complete Ca.talogue of s,prur1g and Summer Spor~ts free. \'The . N auJ:e the Guarantee.\ A '.G. ·s:p.A· ·L'DJ~IG & ,B· RO· 5 NewYor~,Chicago, • • · · · · •• · ... , Plula. WIENCKE'S--~ r)omEL GEf\MANIA AND ~ESfllAU~ANJil. BILLIARDS, 'POOL .AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y~ Cor. So. Centre and Liberty St. BRIAR, AMBER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE [N T()WN AT WEBBER'S CENI'RAL :PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST. AN\D R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Mercha1~t Ta,ilor~ No. 28'1 Sta-te St., SOHE.NBCT.A.:D Y, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SElVARD H. FRENCH. HNI0N eoLLEBE B00K EXef{}lNeE. Pt~CKF:ORD B'ROS~., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTRY. ~Game in season. Telephone 38-3. G02 UNION, COR. BAltltETT STS. F riedn1an Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SoUTH CENTRE Srr. 'Vholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND OL.t\_._MS, 102 So . CENTRE S'r. Oon1n1is~ion dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~~.~ ... SCHENECTADY CLOTliiNG CO., ... THE LEADING ..• ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICK. UNION RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. All College Texts, Draughting Instruments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college s~upplies. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 -A_DVEI~TISEMENTS.- TJiE ONLY FLOR_,IS-'TS·: IN ALBANY Who own their ow.n Greenhouses, and l'Utl a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. ALL CUT' FLOWERS FRESHLY Cl:T'1'. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance T,elephone 156-2. , THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. ,t:J c. A.USTI'N EN:GRAVINSGO., ) J. • •.. 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Ilh1strators and Desig-neJ!s. Half Tone, .Line Etching and Phusochr-ome. Send l!'or Estimates. College work a S]'lecialty. S. E. m~~~ES.R, -:lN., Men's . . . . Furnishing Goods,. Sole agent for I-LAN AN & SON MEN'S SH 0 ES. ALSO THE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 Maiden Lane. ALBA..NY, N. Y. P·. F. McB.REE:N Pall Fashions and Fabrics Ready for your inspection at JOHNSON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 Maiden Lane. F. A. Vnn Vranken. ALBANY, N.Y. INTERCOLLEGIATE BtTREA 'U ·~ FoR OA.Ps, GowNs & Hoons. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. COTTRELL & LEONARD, 472-4'78 B'way. ALBANY,N. Y. F. VanVranken. VAN~VRF\NKEN BROS., IMPO~JJ.1ING <9AIUO~S, 48 NORTH PEARL ST., Notman Building. ALBANY, N. Y. R. T. M·OIR,-.- ... 218 Wil~liam, Stm, N,ew York· BOOKS, FINE STATIONERY, PICTURE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, ETc. AL':E~v:v PRINTER. 838 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. STEAMSHIP AGENCY .•... EY.RES ~ RQSES, GU'T ,FLOWERS FV RNISHED A'T' SHORT NO'T'IGE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed fi.Tg.t-class. No. 11 No. Pearl St., Albany-, N. Y. READY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR ALL HEAD~ TO- FOOT. . ALBANY, N.Y. ~sAUL.

·f .r . - . . . - .. 1! .. ~ ~ , ..- . . . ._.. . . •• I . ' ~· (.;i .. J lJ N 1 () N C f) I~ J ... },. i ~ i · ~'\ ·· S C liE Nl~-:crr.:\.lJ \ . ' ' .. . '· __,........,. . .,( The C . d. . oncor · 1ens1s. ~..,... 1/ P·UBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE ·STUDENTS OF U NIOI'~ COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. VoL. XXI. JANUARY 22, 1898. No. 14.

UNION COLLEGE ANDB!lW V,. V. KAY:M:OND, D. ~D., LL, D., l'resident. UNION COlLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. Course Leading to tile Degree of A. B.---''lPhe ti.suai Classical Course, tncludi;ng F~re;ncb. and German. After s·opho- more year the wo'l·k is largely elective. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of n. S.-The modern languages are substituted for the ancient and the amoant of Mathematics and. English stuclies is increased. After the Sophomore year a large list of electives is offered. 3. Course Lea.tling to the Degree of Ph. B.-'111is differs from the A. B. course d1iefly in the omis.;;ion of Greek and :the substitution theref0r of additional work in modern :languages and science. 4. GeneJ.•al Course Leading to the Degree .ofB. ]~.­ This course is intended to g-ive the 'haRis of an Engineering educa.tion., including the fundamental principles of all special branches of the ,profession, a knowledge of both French and German, and a full course in English. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary Engineering for some of the General Engineering studies. 6. Electrical Caurse Leading to t11e Degree of B. E.- This differs from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- tricity and its applications, in place of some of tl~e Genel\al E~gineering. studtes. This co~rse is offered in co-operation With the Edison General Eleetr1c Company. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering J,eading to the Degree of C. E.-A. course of one year offered to ~radu.ates of Course 4:, 5 or 6. There are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, Metallur~y and Natural History. For catalogues or for special informat10n address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College._;Term commences last Tues- day in Septembel\. Three years :'Strictly graded cour~e. I.n- 15tructio:tu by leetures; recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practical demonstrations and operations. Clinical ad vantages excellent. Expenseiii.-Ma:triculation fee, $5; annual lecture course, $100; perpetual ticket, $250; graduation fee, $2f); dissectin: fee, $10; laboratory course, each, $10. For circular address WILLIS G. 1'UCKEH, M.D., Re{:istrar, .A.lbany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Sc:hool.-This department is located at ..\_lbanyl near the State Capitol. l t occupies a building wholly devotea to its use. The course is one year, divided into two a em esters. Expenses.- Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For eatalogue:s or other information, address J. NEWTON FIERO, Dean . .ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercise• held in Albany Medical CoHere. Annual lecture term commence• Monday, Oct. 5. For catalogue and informa- tion addreN DB B.A.. UN V .AN .AK.EN, Ph. G., ~eeretary, %22 Hamilton S.t. Gerxtleme11 .. ,. Bny Your Shoes at QUI~I'S. The largest and 111ost modern Boot, Shoe and Rubber Ernporium in Ne'v York State. QUIRI'S SHOE STORE, 311 STATE ST~, COR. '\VALL. '' Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'.' BONBONS -AND- CHOCOLATES. Kodaks, Premos and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 and the ~ure6t oft Jjrug6 AT LYON'S DRUG STORE, 335 STATE ST., COR. CENTRE. <9HE ... €DISON f)OJIIEL, ••••• Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, and the Large# a11d Best A ppointf'd Hotel z'n t!le city. Headquarters for Commercial Traveller~ atzd To'Nrists GHAS. BROWN, PROPRIE~OR.

Its Th0 Co11cordieJlsis VoL: XXI. UNlON !O;OLLEGE, JANUARY 22, 1898. No. 14. PRAISE FOR THE DU'T:CH. presideQt (laymoQd tellsliol1laiJd'5 8o;1)5 of tfollaQd'5 'Virtues. The annual dinner of the Holland society was held in the Astoria, New York city, 1ast week and among the leading speakers present was , President Rayn1ond. His speech on \The Dutchman as an Enemy\ was a particularly happy one, being pronounced by those present to be one of the finest ever listened to on any sitnilar occasion. In introducing President Raymond\ according '' Som,e becnme enemies because of their spleen, others because of their total depravity, and others still because they insist upon standing upright when some one wants them to lie down and be 'Stepped on. That is the meaning of backbone in this world of hurnan strife, and if frotn time to time it has made enetnies out of peace-loving Dutchmen, there has been sotne- thing about their entnity that has comtnanded respect and not a little gratitude, for it is the kind of enrnity that makes the world tnore toler- able as a place of temporary abode. If no one resisted tyrants and thieves and heretics and franchise grabbers, corner lots would soon drop in price. It is the fight in the man who will not be stepped on that determines the progress of civilization, and that is why civilization owes so much to the Dutchrnan. He may not be aggressive, enterprising, inventive, but his powers of resistance are superb, and it is some- tin1es better to hold fast than to be fast, and so Providence seerns always to have put him in the front wherever any great battle was to be fought for the preservation of hutnan rights. * * ''We have institutions and principles and rights and privileges in this country that are constantly being attacked, and it is titne for the backbone which the Dutch have given Arnerica to assert itself. Hospitality ceases to be a vir- tue when it means the destruction of the Lares and Penates of our firesides. When a guest in- sists upon sitting at the head of the table, it is titne for the host to become 'hostis.' \ What America needs in this new year of grace is not less hospitality toward friends, but more hostility toward intruders. There is no tnore portentious war cloud hanging over Europe today than that which hangs over this western land ; and, the war which it threatens is nothing less than a struggle for the supre1nacy of Ameri- can ideas and American principles ; not a war of conquest, but a war of defense and self-preserva- to the Mail and Express of Jan. 13, Mr. Vroo- rnan said he announced on request that there was no better college anywhere than Union col- . lege, and that he could announce ·on his own knowledge that there was no better president. Dr. Raymond's sallies were appreciatively received. He spoke in part as follows: \ When one has been rocked in a Dutch cradle, baptized with a Dutch name, caressed with a Dutch slipper, nurtied on Dutch history and fed on Dutch theology, he· always accepts an invitation frotn the HolLand Society. It is now four years since I had the privilege of speaking my mind freely about the Dutch~ and in the n1eantime so much n1i ncl (or is it only speech?) has accun1ulated that the present opportunity is a merciful interposition of provi- dence for me. These years have brought a change of residence, for, whereas, I used to live in Albany, I now live in Schenectady, which is like moving frotn The Hague to Leyden, or, in other words, getting further into the heart of Dutchdom. Nowhere else is Dutch written with a larger D than in the city which I now call my hotne-with Lisha's Kill on one side, .. Rotterdan1 on another, A,msterdam on a third and a real dike on the fourth. * * *

4 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS. tion.. The spirit of the age is iconoclastic. It seeks to destroy sacred m~ernorials, hallowed as- sociations, holy shrines-all that speaks of the faith and worship of a God-fearing past. The spirit of the age is cynical, irreverent, faith less. Against this and ali despoiling forces are we as patriots called to anns. ''For what does Atnerica stand? Wha.t truths have entered into her blood and made her strong, beautiful, dominant? The divineness of human rights, the clai~tns of a rnan superior to the clahns of property, popular governtnent- not an oligarchy, popular governn1ent, no:t a dictatorship-the sacredness of the h01ne, the holiness of the sactuary, faith in hutnanity, faith in God-· without these there would have been no Arnerica. Without these there can be no America ; and, because they are attacked, the need of the hour is a patriotisn1 that breath,es again the spirit of the people, vvho, above all others in history, have known how to keep their land, their honor and their faith. 1.'be 1nission ofHtt1e Holland is not ended so long as Am,erica needs the inspiration of her exan1ple, the de- voted citizenship of her sons.\ The '' Quad\ held another delightful dance at Yates' boat house, Friday evening, Jan. 14. Music was furnished by Zita and refreshments by Dobennan. Those present \vere: Miss Vincent, Pough- keepsie; Miss Murdock, Pittsburg; Miss Cal- vert, Maryland ; Miss Strang, New York; Miss Kline, Atnsterdarn; Miss Esseltyne, Hudson ; and from the city, Mrs. Price and the Misses Williatns,Curtis, Lewis, Price, DeForest, Miller, Kingsbury, Walker, Strain, Horstn1an, Catnp- bell, Yates, Veeder and Beattie and the- Messrs. Turner, Strong, W. Yates, P. B. Yates, S. Medhury, W. Merritnan, P. Merrin1an, Foote, F. vVright, Sylvester, Paige, I<.irby, Bender, Kline, Warner, Nevins, Parsons, VanVlack, Miles, Lawrence, Loucks, Leavenworth, N. Medbury and Vrooman. Wi:th the ai tn of eneouraging literary activity at-nong coUege gradiuates, The Cent11ry rnaga- zil\le offers to give, anRuaHy, during four succes- sive years, the priz.es of $250 each, open rto the cornpetiti·oN. of persens who receive the degree of :Bacheior .of Arts in any college or un iver- si ty in the United States duting the con1n1en.,ce- tnent seasons of l:S97', r898, 1899, and rgoo. r st. $250 for H:re best metrical writing of not fewer than fiftv lines. 2d. $250 for tllie best essay in the field of biography, hi story, or literary criticisrn, of nor fewrer than four tlh.<~usand or 1nore than e~ight thousand vvords. 3d. $2 50 for the best story of not fevver than four thousand or more than eight thousand words. On or before Jane I of the year succeeding graduation, con1peti tors tnust subn1 it type-written manuscript to the Editor of The Century Maga- zine, n1arked, on.tside and inside, \'For the Col!lege Competit·FOn ,\ signed by a pen-natne, and occotnpaniecl by the name and address of the author in a se_parate sealed envelope, which wiH not be opened until the decision has been made. The manusct·ipt subrnitted n1ust be ~the product of literary work done after graduation, and must not hav€ been published. A circular giving full detai 1 1s concerning the cotnpetition will be sent to any addt·ess by The C.entury C~., Union Square, New York. \ The editorial boa:rd of the '99 Garnet announce that the book this year will show a decided ad- vance over all previous issues. The book will be handsomely hound in gt-trnet with gilt top and untrin1med edges. An edition of 400 vol- umes will be published and the price has been fixed at $1.25. The art departrnent, in charge of Mr. Lawrence., and the literary department in charge of Mr. Hinman, are both far above the ~verage both in. the quality and the amount .of 1natter secured. The first sheets will go to p:ress next Monday and the book will be out within a few weeks.

s- e- lg a- e, of be n, ar d- nt to 'l'I-IE CONC:ORDIEN'Slt5. 5 Rev. Walter H. Waygood, pastor of the East Avenue Presbyterian church of this city, gave an infonnal but very interesting talk in chapel last Sunday afternoon. Mr. W aygood used as the leading topi·c of his discourse, Rotnans viii, 30, '\ I\loreover whotn he did preclesti nate, thern he also called; and whcHn he called, then1 he also justified; and whon1 he justified, the1n he Sixty-five 1nen have \Vorked their way through Yale in the past six years. also glori:fied. '' In his opening recm,ad<S be treated the doctrine of predestination in a very comprehensive and lucid .tnanner, and laid especial stress on justifi- cation. l-Ie recot11111ended a frequent perusal of the parable of the prodigal son. The twofo'ld nature of sin, enters largely into rnan's experi- ence. He conltnits a sin of comrrtission and ' while enga~ed in that, sorne important tneans of . developtnent of his better nature has been neg- lected. Thus the sinner not only is farther fron1 justification because of his s1 n, bnt for the same specific reason he has failerl to make the advance toward it he should have done, because the means of advance1nent bas been neglected while engaged in sin. The twofold character of Christ wholly counteracts these deteriorating influences. He did no sin hitnself and· yet he suffered for our sins. Hence the twofoldness of our sin is wa!:'hed away by Cln·ist's blood. It is n1ost difficult for tnan to realize the extra- ordinary responsibility of one man in bearing the sin of the whole world. We could cotnpre- hend it better by a cotnparison ·which though u.nusual yet serves its purpose. Could Qyeen Victoria by a death of suffering free the insect wo~·ld from sin, if that.cotnparison were possible, the difference would be no greater than Cln·ist dying on the cross for our sin. Joe-What became of Ryter, who used to do so many pretty verses in our college paper? Eli_;. Why, haven't you heard? He has be- come famous as the- poet laureate of the Porcine Soap company.----Fiarlem Life. At Colun1hia ten n1inutes is allo\ved for students to pass frotn one recitation to another. President Schunnan, of Cornell university, has expressed willingness to establish a course in road tYlaking if funds are forthcon1ing. The faculty of the University of Cincinnati is engaged in a squabble with the students over a proposed faculty censorship of the college press. \V. H. flo\vetll, '99, medical, has been elected captain of the 'varsity crew of the University of Pennsylvania, in place of San11,1el Boyle, resigned. .A. bust of the late General Francis A. vValker of econon1ic fan1e, has been presented to the Massachusetts institute of Technology, by the undergraduates. The Athletic association of the University of Penns_ylvania is trying to raise $6o,ooo to build an athletic club bouse, Over one-half that atnount has been secured. 'I'he freslunen at the University of Pennsyl- vania, have adopted a class pipe. This is a violation of college cu&tom and the sophotnores, supported by the upper classes, have forbidden their use on the university premises. Yale extended an invitation to Cornell to race this year at New London, and Cornell accepted on the condition that she be allowed to natne the place next year,. Yale refused to accept that condition and the probability of a triangular race this year is doubtful. The Cercle Francaise of Harvard, has been presented by its president, J. H. Hyde, '98, ' with a ft1nd of $3o,ooo, to establish an annual lectu1·e course on French literatute, art and his- tory. Rene Doumic, literary critic of the '' Reven des Deux Mondes,\ will give the course of eight lectures this year on \ French Rotnanticism.\ The lectures will be given in Frencl1.

·6 THE CONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORD1ENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK: DURING TH!t :cOLLEGE YEA,R. BY THE S·ruDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. BOARD· OF EDITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chief CHARLES J. VROOUA.N, '98, · 13usiness Manager CARL 1-IAMMER, '98, - - - - - N·ews Editor JoHN L. SHERWOOD, Asst. Bus. ~fanager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPIO~, '99, L. T' l3RADB\OR.I>, '99, :G. c. ROWELL, '99, H. K. 'VRIGHT, '99. REPORTORIAL STA.FF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, P. L. 'I'HOMSON, 1900, D. ,V. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TER:rtfS: Co:NOORDIENSIS, $2. 00 per Year, in Ad vance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1.00 pel' Year, iR Ad v::tnce Both Papers to one ... -\ddress, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address all communications to THE CoNCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213, Schenectady, N.Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N. V., as second-class matter. Chata. Burrows, Printer, 4-12 State Street, Schenectady. N.Y. the co11solation that it m.ay l> e h andeu iu ISOnle- tirne when other duties a1·e p-1~essi:ng; for a first, second or third grade. .AN lil.ndergrad ua.te conten.tp<(Jrary has bee,n_ :so thoughtless as to publish og:ures showing tll€ faculty attendance at chapel i~n the institution it represents. Need we state ~ba.t those fig aves discovered? And figures ae·\\Ver lie. But uUl' astute conteu.1porary shou:l.dl Hot forget ·tha.t cbap(:\1 had probably been OlJ.Oe ''passed up\ by , ' the honorable and august boa y assailed,· long years ago \hen chapel waiS uGt.bing short of ch u.rcb, as the saying :goes. ACTING upon the suggestion:. of Dr. Jones, the senior .class has estahJbhed & orost couunendable p~·ecedent in the 1:natter of pre-semta.tion of books to the college library. Instea-d of the regu·lar pur-- chase of individual text bo()lcs in sociology this tern1, the n1e1nbers of '98 each .. ~ontributed a fixed au1ount, the sum of 'vhicb 'v-iU be invested in books pertaining to econotnic .anCI. sociological sub- jects. The selection of the b~oks is to be n1ade IN spite of all that bas been said on the subject, by D 1 •• Jones. They rernain· the- property of the there are still several misguided denizens of the dormitory sections who make a practice of empty- ing the contents of their ashpans into the halls. Those persons that continue such a nuisance after onee having their attention called to it, are open to the suspicion that something was lacking in their early training. Their present opportunHies avail thmu little. ATTENTION is called to the announcement ap- pear.ing in another column of the Century's offer of prizes to college graduates. The announceu1ent has probably been seen before by all the readers of this paper, but vve give it space hoping that some laggard genius rnay decide to becon1e a con- testant; and so deciding, do a little experin1enting on the college press. The Century editors tell us that \'rhe department of our literature perhaps most in need of stimulus is that of the essay.\ There's a suggestion. Sit down and write an essay. And if it is not accepted) there still is left class during the terrn anrl are then to be turned over to the library. By this J:aeans quite anum- bei' of volu1nes will be added te a departtuent of the library at present rather -w~a,k. By shnilar action on the part of othe,r- cl~sses this could easily beco1ne a souree of inco1ne to the library 0f no 1uean hnportance. No1· ne-efl the scheme, be lhnited wholly to the departrne:nt of sociology. ,_ v 'rHl1~ man who regular:Iy slips -out of chapel 1\Iou- day n1ornings, before co]]e~e r:neetings, with a self co1uplacent smile on his rae(}-, need consult no palmist concerning l1is present or future. He may fancy be is clever but any hone;3t student will dis- illusion h hn. It is the san1.e cleverness he uses when dodging an athletic sab seription or a pay game on the can1pus; the artfuliHlSS that bm-ro\·Ys a conn·ade's books and papet s.; th.e cunning that feeds upon unfair advantag€ in the classroom; the craftiness of acute selfisll1il€SS. But he is kno\vn. 'Vith all his trickery b(}- ,deceives no one. \

\ THE CONOORDIENSIS. 7 So {Ouch for the undergraduate. When such a fellow getsout into the world he ·becomes the aluntnusthatscoffs at hi's Ahna Mater; b:e beco:rnes the citizen tfuat does not vote; what- , -e·ver his calling he re1nah1s the skinflint. He is now, and he will be then, a good man • to avoid. fllumf)i f{otes. Congress.man Wallace T. Foote, '85, one of· -the board oftrustees, has returned frotn a pleasure trip to E..,urope. .' The ~ngagement has recently been announced ' .of Guy Miller, '94, the son of ex-Senator Warner Miller, '6o, and Miss Margurite Lansing of Watertown, Robert C. Alexander, 'So, editor of the Mail ' .and Express, was one of the speakers at the fourteenth semi-n.1onthly dinner of the Catnpfire club at the Hotel Vendome, New York, Satur- day,. Jan. 8. G·eneral Daniel Butterfield, '49, gave an ad- dress on the life and work of Ezra Cornell, founder of Cornell University and his intimate friend, before an audience of a thousand persons, in the University Armo1y on Tuesday, January I r, \Founders' Day.\ The annual dinner of the New England Alumni association will be held at Hotel rfuil- 1eries, Boston, on February ninth. Dr. 'Vin- ·Chester Donald, successor to Phillips Brooks, as· rect9r of J'rinity church, will be a guest and speaker. An1ong other protninent men Dr. · .. Ed.ward Everett Hale will be present. ' , .... General Horace Porter, LL. D., '64, the ' \\<United States Arnbassador to France, gave a I r'dinper January 9, at which were present Mme. ·Carnut, widow of President Carnot, the Turkish .nnd Chinese ambassadors, Princess Isenburg- Brinstein, the Due d'Aner';taedt, Grand Chan- cellor of the Legion of Honor, and others. 8opt;omor~ Soiree. [t has been decided to hold the annual sopho- ·more soiree in the V:an Curler opera house as usual this year, the event to take place on the evening of February r 8. Giocia will probably furnish the music. The cornmittee is an unusu- aHy active one and the dance will be one of the best of any held for years. The tickets of ad- mission will be at the usual price, $3-50. (:1\iQor Topies. J. W. Ayraullt, r9oi, has left college. Smith, '99, wars at Fort Ed,vard last week. Minken, 190T, spent Sunday with his parents ii1 Albany. T. B. Brown, ex-'98, is confined to his home in this city. Tinning, 1900, spent Sunday at his hotne in Pattersonville. Ptof. Opdyke has decided to excuse first men from his Algebra examination . Owing to th.e absence of Pt·of. Ashmore on Wednesday his classes did not meet. Wonner, 1901, who was injured recently in the gymnasium, is rapidly improvtng. Mr. J. W. Fa~lk of Hudson, N. Y., was the guest for a few days of Heerrnance, I 9or. The A. B. and L. S. freshtnen algebra. divisions were ex:amined last \V ednesda y. A number of students attended a dance given by the Nu Delta Sigtna ti·ate1·nity at Albany last Friday evening. Cullen, '98, has resigned from the Adel- phic debating team. Breeze, '99, has been elected instead. The general engineering division of the senior class will design a sewerage systetn for the village of Middleburgh, N. Y. The sophomore soiree committee held a meet- ing at the Alp,ha Delta Phi house, Friday, Jan. 14, at which the chairmen of the sub-cotnmittees tn~de their rep()rts. Messrs. Hoxie, '98; Wilson, '99; Bonesteel, '99, and Thomson, 19oo, were guests at a recep- tion given last week by the Misses Bates at their home on Jay street. Dunham, 1900, entertained a number of his friends at his home Wednesday evening. Gage, 1901, secured the gentleman's prize at pro- gressive eu cl-~u-e. The last college dance before the soiree is to be held this evening, when the members of the Chi Psi fraternity will entertain their friends at \ Yates' boathouse. Gioscia .of Albany, will fur- nish the music.

8 -ADVERTISIDMENTS.- Gailey, the ex-foot baU centre of Princeton, · who will enter the missionary field in ·China when his theological course is con1pleted, will be at the college Y. M. C'. A. January 25 and • 26 in the interest of the Student Voilunteer rnove- . ment. The students have been enjoying th.·e skating , on the river during the week. The ice in the n:tain river opposite the city, with last week's , tha'v broke up, but in th·e BennekiU and the several branches of the main river the ice re- maining intact has been in good condition for skating. The students were weH represented at the reading Monday evening, given by Clyde Fitch, the dramatist. Mr. Fitch is a graduate o£ Atnherst, in the class of '86, and \vas for many years a resident of this city. Tuesday afternoon he was entertained by the rnen1hers of the Chi . Psi fraternity of which he is a 1netnber. Organized 1858. Incorporated. Jos. KLEIN, The large.st ~ember~hip. of I Lours HINKELMAN, Director any mu~ICal orgamzat1on Manager. · mAlbany. lOTH REGT. J.\IILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years played at Union, HamUton, Cornell, Williams, Middlebury, etc. ;Furnished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, Jan. 7, '97. College Cornmence- ment-l, Receptions, Weddings Balls, Concerts, etc., .a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. IIINKELMAN, Mgr., Teleph.one 1240. 75 State. St., AlbaQy. 1 xg~[E,~ ~ ~fflllf«lf!l~T~~!Nl5 /'\ '-.__~ and other cut flowers \ constantly on hand •••• , • •••• GRUPE The Florist ' ' Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREE~.r. POPULAR FLORISTS. CHRYSANTHEMtlMS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 30 NORTH PEARL STREET. F\LBANY, N. Y. Wa *: ·L. E. CURLEY,. 514 FULTON s-r., TROY, N. v. Largest Manufacturers tn America I 'I I I I I . of EngineHrs' and Surveyo:rs' Instruments .. .. Also dealers in Drawing I ustrunwnts and Materia~s. m efAYLE & S0N, ( . .. . .. . .. ....................................................... - . . \\\ \ * E!$iKAVE~J, * -----ALBANY, N. Y .. THE DELAVAN ' ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PROOF ELEVATORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwards. European Plan, Rooms, 75c and Upwards. S. D. WYATT~ 80., E. M. MOOHE, Manager. E. C. HARTLEY, \'The Union St. Grocer.''~ Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga ~ineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. · •\•-------L. D. TELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601-603 UNION STREET ..

-ADVERTiSEMENTS. 9 f(\usioal ~:tubs' ltiQery · INSURANCE. The remainder of tb.e season of the tn usical organizations bids fair to outshine the successes that have been rnet with thus far. 'The pros- pects of the Lansingbn Tgh concert, held 1:'hurs- day nigbt,wer~ rnostBattering and both Manager Sinclair and his assistant, Mr. Vander Veer, are to be congratulated. After the concert the organizations were handsotnel y entertained by the Riverside club. The An1sterda1n concert will be given on the evening of February 1 I, at the opera house in that city. 1'he Atnsterdam alutnni ancl undergraduates are using every effort to n1ake the affair a success. Early in April the organizations will tnake their annual New York tour, spending a week on the road. On tb i:s trip, Hudson, Newburgh, Poughkeepsie and ICingston will be also visited. The Albany concert wiU be repeated sometime in May. Who is .•• C. GOETZ? 1'he only Tailor in Schenectady w l1o ilnports goods direct fro1n England. Just received a large assortn~ent for Fall and Winter. CALL ..L\.ND SEE '1'1HEM. E',VERY DE:SCRIPTION, B. CL:EVE'LA~~N:D SLOAN, 4'24 ,STATE STREET. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. 8. E. BOTHAM, 214 CLINTON 81'. KEELER'S se •· I • EUROPEAN .. HOTEL AND R~EST AU RANT, Broadway an.d Maid.en Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. & • • QENTLEMEN ONLT. 250 ROOMS. , •• La(lies Resta.u:rant Attached • . • • • 3 Central Arcade, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 & 509 BROADWAY. -ARTISTIC PARISIAN-. 'kJ:rry and ~team Cleaning and 'Dyeing W OP~s. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-clalils work guaranteed. Goods called fo1·.and delivered free of charge. cJACOB RIN,DFLEI8GH, 18 Central A read e. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. .. HIGH GRADE SHOES .. --AT LOWEST PRICES. - • Open until9 P. :M. Work done at short notice. 245 Sta.te St. PA ~TON & HALL.

io Yates' Boat House. The largest and best equipped in ~the State. Excel- lent Da;noing Hall, which can be rented for Private PartieR Only, in connection with: house. 29 Front Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. The Celebrated D. L. & ~W. Coal, for sale by VEEf>E.R BROS., No. 424 STATE STREET. (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), b. PHOTOGRAPHER b. ' and dealer in Ca·meras and Photographic SuppHes. STUDIO, JAY STREET. First-class work done at the Studio for p, 'PUlar prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GrosciA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. ~96 Broad way, .ALBANY, N.Y. Telephone 4:82. Union College, 1 91 to '97 Hamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94: to '97 Williams' Coliege, '91 to '97 Cornell University, '90 to '~6 Governor's Man~ion, 1 94: to '97 13J11\fl'YTE ~ k)E1CE]'IFE~:E(, • ~-- wholesale and Retail Dealers in .... eO}lL ai]d WeeD Lime, Cem(mt, PlaRter, Hair, Flour, I 300, 308 and 310 Union, }.,eed, Grain, Baled Hay, Straw 209 and 211 Dock St., and Fertilizers. Schenectady, N.Y. i\ladc ts lo., ... FLORISTS ... • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAIDEN LANE, L .. T. CLUTE, ursg • H.A,TTER AN:D FURRIER. .Also., T'ru'nks, Bag8,. Suit ,Cases, Gloves, VrnbTellas, Cane11, Etc• 227 Sf A'fE 8'fRE,E'if. At .. THoMAs' Musrc SToRE No. 15 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find the WASHBURN King of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. The Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 miles. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIAN OS. ••• a THOMAS HAS THE BEST • EMBOss E D-WIIIIflllllll UNION COLLEGE ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, B-y 'TiiE QUIRE, 100 ORlOOO. tc + NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 412 STATE STREET. 'Wm. Dobermann, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. ll. o~.t:-106 Wall Street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.

• , • 11 -------ADVERTISEMENTS.- ======::::=::::==::::::::::::::======:::::::::===================i==================== ---- --· BA5E PaLL SuppUe8, Spalding League Ball, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for samples and special rates, Every requi- site for Tennis,. Golf, Cricket, Track and Field, Gyntnasiuul Equipments and Out- fits. C'o1nplete Catalogue of spriug and Sununer Sports free. \The .Nan1e the Guarantee . \ A ·G· SPAL. •-0: ·JiliG ·& 'BR·.Q· :S New YorK,, Chicago, • - • - - n · • , Phtla . W.IEN:C:KE'S--------.. l)omsu GE~MANIA AND ~ESrrtAU~ANfll. BILLIARDS, POOL AND BOWLING. SCHENE'CTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty St. BRIAR AMJ3ER AND ' MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN A'r WEBBER'S GENi'RRL PHARMAGY, CoR. STATE ST. A.ND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, Mercha1~t Ta,ilor. :N(), 23'1 Stat~ Bt., SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SE'V ARD H. FHENCH. tfNI0N eOLLE6E B00K EXe}I}lNBE. PI,!CKFORD B-ROS., Union Market. DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND P'OULTRY. m;-~Gan1o in season. Telephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRgTT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE ~1EATS, POULTRY, ETC . 53 SOUTH CENTRE ST. 'Vholesale and Retail FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CE~'l'RE ST. Comrnission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits . ===========-===---- ~SCIIENl~CTAl)Y CtOTIIING CO., ... THE I.JEADlNG •.. ONE PRICE CASH CLOTHIERS, HATTERS AND GE.NTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street, Seheuectady, N. Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HEURICI{. UN'ION RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3. Prompt Service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. OENrrRE STREET. All College. Texts, Draughting Instruments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college supplies. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

12 ADVERTISEMENTS.---- =================------=~======~--==-~--=-~~==========~====================== TJ1E ONLY FLOFtiSTS IN ALBANY Who own their own Greenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS.· ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Long Distance Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. z:r c. AUSTIN EN\3RAVING co., ~ J. • •• , 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N. Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone. I.Jine Etching and Phusoehrome. Send For Estimates. College work a Specialty. Men's . . . . Fur11isl1ing 4 Goods. Sole agent for H_LLiNA_N & SON ]fEN'S SHOES. ALSO TJIE REGAL SHOE. 34 & 36 :Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. P.F.McBREEN Fan Fashions and FabriC'S Ready for your inspection at JOHN,SON'S, THE PoPULAR TAILOR. 35 Maiden Lane. F. A. Vnn Vranken. ALBANY, N. Y. INTERCOLLEGIATE BUREAt1 FOR CAPS, GOWNS & HOODS. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts a specialty. ~ COTTRELL & LEONARD, 4:72-478 TI'way. ALBANY, N. Y. F. VanVranken. VAN VRRNKEN BROS., IM)!)ORllliNG <9AILORS, 48 NoRTH PEAHL ST., Notman Building. ALBANY, N. Y. R. T, MOIR, - · • .,. 218 Will.iam St., New York BOOI'CS, FINE STATIONERY, PICTURE FRAMING, WALL PAPERS, ETC. ALWAYS PRINTER READY·. • · · E.XRES £ RQSES, GUT FLOWERS FURNISHED A'T' SHOR'T' NOTICE. Shipped to any part and guaranteed first-elass. No. 11 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. STEA..:MSHIP AGENCY. • . . • 833 State St., Schenectady, N. Y. RE,ADY FOR FALL CLOTHING FOR AJJL HEAD-TO- FOOT. ALBANY, N,, Y. .,.. -sAUL.

T ''h ·;.·.··.e· . ~· ' ' . ' ' . ' .. .. ... ..... ., -.-IJJ~IO~ COLLECEI ·,!?C HJ.j X E(! 'tt~ j d . . oncor tensts. VoL. XXI. PUBLISHED WEEK·LY BY THE STUDENTS OF UN·ION COLLECE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. JANUARY 29, 1898. No. 15.

2 UNION COLLEGE ANDIEW V, V. llAYMOND., D •. D., LL. D., l'reai~ent. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 1. ~ourse Leading to th.e Degree of A. B.-The usual Olassica.lOourse, in.cluding French .and German. .After h)opho- moro year- the work is la·rgely elective. 2.. <Jourse Leading to the Degree of B. S.-The modern · iangu.a~es are .substituted for the ancient and the amount o{ Mathe111.a:tics and English studies is increased. After the Sophom .. ere year a large list of electives is offered. 3 .. -<:ourse Leading tH the Degree of :Ph. B.-This · 1 differsf1~o1n the A. B. course chiefly in the omisc;;;ion of Greek and tl1e: .substitution therefor of additional werk in modern langU:a~es and science. 4. General Course Leading to tlte Degree of B. E.- This cc.urse is intended to g-ive the :basis of an Engineering educa.n-()n, .including the fundamental principles of all specia·1 bran:ehes of the profession, a knowledge of botb French and Ger:rnao.., and a full course in English. 1 5. Sanitary Course J ... eading .to the Degree of B. E.- 1 This di::ffers from Course 4 in substituting special work in Sanitary :Engineering for some of the General Engineering studi€s. 6. Electrical Course I~eading to the Deg-ree of B. E.- This dt.Ef.ers from Course 4 in substituting special work in Elec- ' tricit-y and its applications, in place of some of the General EngineeJ.lillg studies. This course is offered in co-operation with t\1~ Edison General Electric Company. 7. G-raduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of c. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of Course 4, 5 or 6. Ther.e are also special courses in Analytical Chemistry, MetaJlr:l.rgy and Natural History. For catalogues or for special infonnati()n address ~ENJAMIN H. lUPTON, Dean of the C0llege, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. AiJ'IJa.ny Medical College.-Term commep.ces last Tues- day in September. Three years l!!trictly graded course. ln- ~tructic:ms by lectures, recitations, laboratory work, clinics and practieal demonstrations and operations. Clinical adyan.tages excellent. :Ex:pense&.-Matriculation fee., $5; annual lecture course, $100: p-erpetual ticket, $250; ~radu.ation fee, $2.'5; dissectin~ fee, $10; laboratory course, each, SlO. }i'or circular address \WILLIS G. 'TUCKEH, M.D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Atl>a.ny Law School.-This department is located at Alban37,. :near the State Capitol. l t occupies a. building- wholly devoted to its use. The course is one year, divided into two semest;el\s. :E~penses.-Matriculation Fee, $10; Tuition fee, $100. For eatalc>gue!'l; or other information, address .J. NEWTON InE I-tO, Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. ~~el\cises held in Albany Medical College. Annual lecture term commences Monday, Oct. 5. For catalorue and informa- ti<>lil address DE B.AUN VA.N AKEN, Ph. G., ~eeretary, z2= Hamilton St. Gerltlem:eq. ,. • • Buy Your Shoes at QUI~I'S .. The largest and Ill()St modern ~(j)ot, Shoe and Rubber Emporiutu in New York State. QUIRI'S iS:HOE &r·Olt'E, 311 STATE 8'1\, ·COR. 'VALL. ''Honest Goods at Honest Prices.'' BO:N EONS -.A..ND- CHQ'CQLATES. Kodaks, Premos. and Photo. Supplies. lhe line6t ligar6 (lnd the l·u..re6to£ JJ~ug6 AT LYO'N'S DRUG S'TORE, 335 ST..A~E ST., COR. t!\]}NTRE. <9HE ... €DISON I)orrtEL, •====· Schenectady, N. Y. Centrally located, and the Largest and Best Ajjoittiui Hotel in the cz\ty. Heaclqu.arters fiN,. :Com.,nerct'al Tra 1lerle-r$ and Tourists GHAS. BROW'('{, P'ROPRIE'I:OR.

• Is The Coflcordieflsis VoL. XXI. UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 2:~, 1898. No. 15. One of the leading social~events of the college year was the dance given Friday eveNing, Jan- uary 2r, by the Chi Psi fraternity. The affair was given at Yates' boat house and delightful n1usic was furnished by G~ioscia of Albany. Besides a large nurnber of invitations out of town over eighty were sent out to residents of the city, two upperclasstnen frotn each of the fraternities being invited as well as a number of neutrals, and several members of th.e faculty. Dancing began shortly after nine o'clock, at twelve refreshtnents were served, and it was nearly four o'clock when the strains of the last waltz brought the dance to an end. The guests frotn out of town were : Miss McClellan, Catnbridge; Miss Murdock, Pitts- burg; Miss Green1nan, Albany; Miss Guard- ineer, Albany; Miss Calvert, Baltin~ore; Mr. and Mrs. Eames, Buffalo; Edward E,. Draper, '97, Lansingburgh; Russell S. Greenman, '96, Frankfort; ThoLnas Sinclair, Arnherst, Mass., and Neil F. Towner, Albany. Those present frotn the city were: Mrs. C. C. Brown, Mrs. W. Scott Hunter, Mrs. A. J. Thornson, Mrs. J. W. Strain, Mt. and Mrs. W. C. Vrooman and the Misses 13rown, Strain, Lewis, DeForest, Marion Bates, Alice Bates, Curtis, Miller, Ostro1n, Kingsbury, Susan Yates, Ray Yates, Anna Beattie, Isabella Beattie, Grace Horstmann, Mabel Horstmann, Walker, Willia1ns, Mynderse, Carnpbell, Veeder and Price; and Messrs. P. P. Sheehan, Hin- tnan, Turner, Price, Hild, Crichton, Champion, Griffith, Cullen, P. B. Yates, D. W. Paige, Reed, Wiley, W. J. Smith, F. W. Smith, R. F. Paige, Curtis, Mynderse, Carey, Frank Cooper, Tremper, W. R. Brown, T. B. Brown, Hoxie, Sinclair, R. E. Bradford, L. T. Brad- ford, Casey, Wilson, Bonesteele, Bray, Francis, Rogers, Potter, Tho1nson, H. J. Brown, ICuker, and Golden ; and Prof. Bennett, Prof. Opdyke, Prof. Pollard, Prof. Webster, Dr. Jones, and Dr. Mcl(enzie. At Lansingburgh, Thursday evening, Jan. zo, the ·musical clubs added another to the season's list of successful concerts. Never before this year has the interest of the students in the musical association been so 1narked, and if the concerts which have already been given this season are any criterion, Manager Sinclair will be able to -report at the end of the college year the n1ost successful year that the association has ever enjoyed. The concerts up to the present thne have all been a success fron1 a musical and social point of view and vvith one or two exceptions from a financial standpoint, and it is safe to say that no other undergraduate effort has to such a degree given the public a larger and fuller interest in Old Union. The concert at Lansingburgh was no exception to ~he rule. T~l1ursday afternoon the clubs left for Troy and after a short stay at that place went on to Lansingburgh where they were the guests of the Riverside club. A large audience gathered at the hall, and the n1any encores they demanded proved that they 'vere appreciating the music, wh i!ch was of the sarne high order that bas characterized all the concerts of the year. At the conclusion of the concert dancing was begun, and it continued until one o'clock when the mernbers of the clubs left by way of Albany for horne. W. D. Reed, '98 and L. T. Bradford, '99 accotnpanied the clubs on the trip and while in Lansingburgh, Bradford, and Sinclair, '98, Kuker, r9or, and R. E. Bradford, '98, were the guests of E. E. Draper, '97, of that city. The Williams Musical clubs will take 3n Eastern trip d1rough this state, giving concerts at Albany, Utica, Syracuse, Auburn, Lyons, Rochester, Buffalo, Ehnira and Bingharnton.

4 THE OONOORDt:ENSlS. {T\edie ~IumQi Dii]e. The Albany Medical College Alun1ni asso- ciation of Greater Nevv York held its third annual dinner at the Hotel Savoy, Thursday evening, January 20. The table was set in the form of a large U and was decorated with gat~net roses. President Ra:ymond was the first speaker. He greeted the guests in the name of Union university, eulogized the Medical college and hs :faculty, and urged the alutnni to take steps toward providing the n1uch needed new build- ing. Dr. Joseph D. Craig, Union '8o, talked of the Medical college and the faculty of which he is a metnber. He urged that the standard should be raised, the number of students curtailed, the elimination of physics and chetnistry, vvhich should be taught in lower schools, and the substitution of ethics. The Rev. George Alexander, D. D., Union '66~ congratulated the physicians upon the nobleness of their calling, unequaled by any other profession, not excepting the n1inistry. Further remarks were made by Edgar S. Barney, Union '87, the Rev. W. C. Bitting, D. D., Dr. George Shrady, the Hon. Charles M. Earle, and Dr. J. Montgon1ery Mosher, Union '86. [The Concordiensis is indebted for the above repo1t to the Mail and Express and Clarke Winslow Crannell, '95·] ?;~e eopl]omore 8oiree. If the coming Sophomore Soiree is not an unqualified success, it will not be the fault of the committee, who are making every possible effort to give a dance that will surpass all that have gone before. It goes without saying that Gioscia will furnish the music, and that is alone sufficient to make the dance a delightful affair. Colburn of Albany will provide refreshments and Ni.ms of Tt·ov the programs. 1\he usual prornise is n1ade that the defect in the floor wiU be remedied. The boxes are being auctioned off this afternoon at the Van Curler, . and additional boxes will be made up. if desired. The Hst of patronesses follows : Mr .. s. A. V. V. Rayn1ond, Mrs. S., G. Ash- tn<!lre, Mrs. S. B. Brownell, Mrs. w·. G. Cat-ey, Mrs. H. F.· T. Erben, ~1rs.. G. '\V·. Featherstonhaugh, Mrs. L. Gibson, Mrs .. S. D. G:11eene, Mrs .. E. E. Hale, Jr., Mrs. 0. H. Landreth, Mrs. H. C. Lewis, Mt\s. C.' F. Levvis·, Mrs. M. A. Oudin, Mrs. J. K'. Paige, Mrs. H. Parsons, Mrs. M. Perkins, Mrs. G·~ B:. Pt.:ic~,. Mrs. C. S. Prosser, Mrs. B. H. Ripton, Mrs. J. W. Smitley, Mrs. J. W. Strain, M.t~S'. A. J .. 1.\hornson Mrs. J. R. Truax, Mrs. W:. C. V:roo1nan, Mrs. D. vV. vVatkins, Mts .. N. \i\!. Wait, Mrs. W. vVells, Mrs. C. 0. Yates .. D;iddnson Sen1inary will celebrate its sen1 i- centennial in June. At a recent fencing contest between teams fron1 Cornell and Pennsylvania, Cornell won by the ·score of 79 to 76. 'The Boston Athletic association will hold its annu.al indoor tneet on February 5· Most· of the eastern colleges will be represented. The Teacher's College of New York has been amalgamated with Columbia university as .a co-ordinate department with the post g~aduate sch<>ols. RepTesentatives of Harvard, Yale; Princeton, c~rnell and Pennsylvania will meet at the U:niversity Athletic club of New York on S·atur- day, February 19, to revise the football rul~s. Pt()f. 0. C. Marsh, of Yale, has presented to the university his collections of palaeontologJcal, oste(}logical, mineralogical and A.merican arel1ae()logical specimens. The collections are cotuplete and was declared by Huxley to·. be sur.J?assed by no other in the world. Prof. Marsh secured for Yale a hundred and fifty thousand dollar gift in 1866 from the late Ge<t>rge Peabody, and has been professor of palae0n.- tolog-y ever since, serving without pay .. '' E1 Ootn.m s. c '' l\(en \/Yintb (U.S Snyde Agrk Ease Eattlle lfon. :Fishe Muse1 Coltu natiot Land ninth Inde} E. E vols. and Thw Liter \Frc Spie~ and J eren u.s Statt stitu: Sch< State the J Ten· Firs w. Gill Mrs Cor netl Mal Ha< ~ bon ,, s Mo

'THE OONO·ORDIENSIB. 5 ''Eighth Annual Report ofthe N. Y. State Co11nm.ission in Lunacy ; '' ''' Repo1t of the U. S. 'Com1nissioner of Education,. 1895-96; '' \1\{.ernoir of Robert C. Winthrop~'' by R. C. \!Yinthrop, ]1·.; \Losses in Boiling Vegetables,\ (U. S. Dept. of Agricultur·e Bu,netin) by H. Snyder ; '' Library BuUeti n, U. S. Dept. of Agrkulture; '' \So1'ution of Silica, Erosion at Ease Level,'' Hayes & Campbell; \' The Eattlle of Lexington as Looked at in London,\ lfon. John Winslow; ''List of Sotnali-Land Fishes and Reptiles,\ ( Fi,eld Columbian Museum) ; \Annual Report of Director of Field Columbian Museum;\ \Diagratn for Detenni- nation of Horse Power of Turbines,\ 0. 1-I. Landreth; '' N. Y. State Museun.1;\ (Forty- ninth Annua~l Report of Regents) ; '' General Index of the Laws of the State of N. Y.,\ A. E. Baxter; \l{ecords of New Amsterdatn,\ vols. I -7, Berthold Fern ow; \Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents,'' vols. 9-10, R. G. Thwaites ; \Library of the World's Best Literature,\ vols. r-zo, Charles D. Warner; \French and English Pronouncing Dictionary,\ Spiers & Surenne; H Directions for Collecting and Preserving Scale Insects,\ T. D. A. Cock- erell; Srnithsonian Institute (Pt·oceedings of 0. S. National Museum); ''Report of N. Y. State Engineer and Surveyor for 1896; '' \Con- stitutiol!al Studies-State and Federal,\ James Schou]er; \Industrial Evolution of the United States,\ Carrol D. Wrjght; '' 'Tbe Children of the Poot~,\ Jacob A. Rus; \A Daughter of the Tenei.nents.\ Edw. W. Townsend; ''That First Aflait·,\ J. A. Mitchell; '' N ephele,\ F. W. Bourclillon; \The Seats of the Mighty,\ Gilbert Parker;\ Sir George Tressady ,\ 2 vols., Mrs. Humphrey Ward;\ A Book of Martyrs,\ Cornelia A. Pratt; \ The Golden. Age,\ Ken- neth Grahame; \ Taquisara,\ 2 vols., F. Mation Ct·awforcl; ''The Men of the Moss- Hags,\ S. R. Croch:ett; \A Gentletnan Vaga- bond and Some Others,\ F. Hopkinson Stnith; ''Sentimental Ton1111y ,'' J. M. Barrie; \A Monk of Fife,\ Andrew Lang; \ Etnbarass· ments,\ Henry James ; '' Poems,\ Johanna Ambrosius; ''Dame 'Care,\ Ludermann; ''The Little Room,\ Madelene Y. Winne; \With the Procession,\ Henry B. Fuller; ~'When · Vahnond Ca1ne to Pontiac,\ Gilbert Parker; \Lord Onnont and His Aminta,\ George Meredith; \Gathering Clouds,\ F. W. Farrar; \ The Sowers,\ IIenry S. lv'Jerriman; \Dona Perfecta,\ B. Perez Galdos; ''The Green Graves of Balgorvrie ,\ Jane H. Findlater ; ''The Journal of Countess Francois Krans- inska ; \ \ Life and Letters of Dean Stanley,\ 2 vols., R. E. Prothero. J1olidays C.oQSOI ida t({d. There are several off days in the Union college calendar during the n1onth of February. On the twelfth is Lincoln's birthday, Charter's day is the seventeenth, and Washington's birthday is the tvventy-second. These ho 1 ida ys interfere to a great extent, with the regularity of college work, and so the faculty have decided to grant a vacation of three consecutive days, February 22, 23 and 24, instead of three separate days on which fall the holidays already natned. The progratntne has not yet been fully arranged, but in all probability, the Allison-Foote prize de- bate will take place on the evening of the twenty-second ; on the follo,ving night will occur the undergraduate banquet, to which an invitation \Vill be extended to the students or the Albany Law school, Medical college and School of Pharn1acy ; and on the twenty-fourth the mid-winter meet of the Track-athletic associa- tion will cotne ofr at the Centre Street Opera house. There will be proper exercises to cele- brate the founding of the college, and son1e well-known speaker way address the students at that time. During this vacation attendance at chapel will be required each morning. The Amherst faculty has decided that every discovery of dishonesty in examinations tnust be reported to the faculty by the discovering in- structor and the minimutn penalty for each offence to be suspension for one tenn.

6 THE OONOORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. PUBLISHED EVERY WEEK D'B'RIN\G 'THE COLLEGE YEAR. BY THE STUDRNTS OF 1JNION COLLEGE. BOARD OF EIJITORS. PERLEY PoORE SHEEHAN, '98, - Editor-in-Chi·ef CHARLES J, VROOl\IAN, '~8, - Business Manager CARL HAMMER, '98, - - · News Editor JoHN L. SHERvVOOD, Asst. Bus. 1\fanager. ASSOCIATE EDITORS. F. R. CHAMPION, '99, L. 'I'. BRADFORD, '99, G. C. RowELL, '99, H. K. 'VRIGHT, '99. RHPORTORIAL STAFF. LOUIS TINNING, 1900, J?. L THOMSON, 1900, D. ,V. PAIGE, 1900, F. R. DAVIS, 1900. TER~1S: CONCORDIENSIS, $2.0@ per Year, in Advance Single Copies, - 10 Cents PARTHENON, $1. 00' :per Year, in Advance Both Papers to one Address, $2.50 per Year, in Advance. Address all comrnunications to THE CONCORDI- ENSIS, Box 213. Schenectady, N. Y. Entered at the Post-office at Schenectady, N.Y., as second-class matter. Chas. Burrows, Printer, 4r2 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. AN anxious public awaits tbe sociological thesiR that will ten why Scheneetady becomes the Venice of America eve1y tim.e it thaws. Or is it nothing but the old Dutch weakness for canals ? EXCEPTION has been tak.en by a n1ernber of the faculty to the statement in ]ast week's issue that figures do not lie. We or1l y 1narle the stateinent in facetious mood. Of course figures lie. We have stoutly maintained their rnendacity all along. How otherwise, in the nan1e of Adam Stnith, could we hop·e to counteract the influenee of those darnning terrn reports? IF the mid-winter 1neet serves no other purpose than that of stirring up a. little .spirit it will be an occasion of gratitude and celebration. vVe never wel'e aware before that college spirit could so saccessfully imitate the hibernating qualities of the turtle and the toad. 'The fault lies with that whole clan tha;t be,ars fori ts motto, '' What can I get out of it?\ The fellows who, -wl1De able to do so, refuse to pay tht>ir subscriptio·Hs:; \\Vho refuse to put· the interests of their coHege before the interests of a contemptible self. THE librarian was laughing softly :to ldn1self the other morning 'vhen the editor of the Concord- iens&s entered. In re~ponse to a look of inquiry, the latter was permitted ~o read t11e follo\\ving serui-oflicial.coinnlunieatio:n, which be succeeded in obtaining as :'copy\: DEAR LYNES:- My dog atternpted to take a ·whole course in French literature in one night. The blue Dow- den's History of French Literature, ·is now there- fore \a russet coated epic)\ bound in dogskin. I can make restitution in one of two ways. I can send you the dog, or pay the bHl for a new cloth bound Dowden, if you will order it. Please take your choice. Y 0urs truly, JAMES R. TRUAX. IT is highly gratifying to notice the increased use of the libraTy that has characterized thus far the present terrr1. This is owing chiefly to two causes, the first being the large amount of class- roorn assign1nents to the library alcoves and the other being a growing appreciation on the part of the students of the opportunities tlu.~re afiorded. Of course it nlight be said that to 1nany the library serves Inere1y as a convenient shelter. But excepting these from the count, the number of readers is notably on the increase. A suggestion has been offered that the library be kept open until ten o'clock p. n1.., being opened an hour later in the Inorning. lf the 1najority of the students so desire, this will be done. THE .man that breaks windows, and instigates riots, who disregards the rights of others and keeps them froJn their work, the man of such in- ferior stamp that he recognizes no superio1· in station, the n1an \rho does all h€ can to n1ake society Iniserable and ·who maltreats in every way the college that gives not a 1ittle toward his / susteiJ place· .-char a~ why presei to th€ Th€y .selveE ing tc well-1 '' swi] expel that .are tl LA cepti .coUel mear have meet clam bolt~ ·even fora it co goes thei: tim€ the: how roue .som .som beli in l: I1 the Nm Wl litt• wil ing an< all< les1 ea1 thE

/ THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 sustenance-should be in jail, in the shnns, any place but in the proxiinity of decent men. Such cCharacters are not tolerated by society in general, why should they be l;>y the college? Their presence in the college is essentially antagonistic to the purpose for which. the ,coUege was founded. They are incapab~e of learning anything them- .selves and they seek to deny the privilege of learn- ing to others. It is only a little fun, they say. A well-known housebreaker began with a little \swiping.\ 'rhe n1an who cribs an essay and is expelled is an angel co1npared to these nuisances that the authorities continue to tolerate. Why .are they tolerated? Gl]e Day of prayer. The morning service on Thursday, January 27, the day of prayer for colleges, was con- ducted by President Raymond, who preached from the text \' Lord, increase our faith,\ taking as his subject the ministry of faith. The sennon was one of unusual power and eloquence, bringing out forcibly the tneaning of faith as the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen, and drawing sharply the line between faith as intellectual belief and as a vital and vitalizing force. It is not enough that we believe in Christ, we should believe as he did, before we can be called His followers. It is LAST Monday's college meeting, with one ex- ception, was the most poorly attended of the . college year. If attendance at the meeting had meant a bolt from recitation, every seat would have been filled; and a proposition to prolong the meeting an extra hour would have been met by clamorous approval-by those who are now the bolters. Ou1· statement bas ample proof in the ·events of last year and the year before. Let time for a meeting be refused by the authorities because it conflicts with an hour for recitation, and a howl goes up fron1 the present habitual absentees that their l'ights are being trampled upon. Let ample time be granted in which no conflicts occur, and the howlers stay in their roorns. As a class, these howling stay-at-hornes remind one of nothing so much as a bad -n1annered little boy who \\Vhines for . something until he gets it, and then throws the .somethi,ng a way. They almost tempt one to believe that the san1e rem.edy would be salutary : foolish not to be courageous and hopeful as was Moses, for it was a living faith that led him and the children of Israel from Egypt to Canaan . Men are too apt to mistake faith, for the channel it has cut through the realm of thought, though the channel may have lost the living strean1 as many a barren waste of orthodoxy will attest. The singing was in charge of the college quartette, which sang several hymns, and a sacred duet was excellently rendered by Messrs. in both cases. Important business came up for settlement at the last meeting as there does at every meeting. Next Monday's meeting will be an important one. Whether the stay-at-homes, the bad 111a11nered little boys, so to speak, are there or not, business will be tl'ansacted. And so at every future meet- ing. It is to be hoped though, that by t?e time another tern1 arrives the present schente of an allotted hour be abandoned. To let these shift- less and irresponsible bolters bring their more earnest and honest comrades into bad odour with the faculty should not be tolerated. Greene and Gutmann. f\lumQi }'fotes. Charles Emory Smith, '61, has been elected second vice-president of the National Primary Election Reform league . The Hon. R. L. Hand, '58, has recently been appointed vice-president of the fourth district by the State Bar association. Alexander V. Catnpbell, '81, bas been elected recording secretary of the Republican Club of New York, of which Chauncey M. Depew is president. The basket ball teams have been reorganized at Atnherst. During the past year Yale has received nearly half a n1illion dollars in endowments.

8 -----·ADVERTISEMENTS.- Professor William 8 .. Tyler, emeritus pr.o- · fessor of Latin and Greek at A.mherst, died . recently, aged 87. Mt. Holyoke college has an elective course ia . journalism. Lectures are given by an ex- per,ien.ced journalist. The faculty of Columbia univ·ersity has a total of two hundred and ninety-seven professors, instructors, lecturers and tutors. The petition of the students of Hobart college, asking the trustees that no professor be allowed to join a fraternity, has been granted. Three four-oar boats were presented to Prince- ton last year. The question of forming a boat- , ing association is now under consideration. Mr. Gregory Keen, for the past ten years librarian of the University of Pennsylvania, has been appointed librarian of the American Historical society. Org~nized 1858. Incorporated. Jos. KLEIN, The large.st member~hi~ of ·1 Lours HINKELMAN, Director any mu~wal orgamzatwn Manager. • . m Albany. lOTH REGT. MILITARY BAND AND ORCHESTRA. This organization has for years pl~yed at Union, Hamilton, Cornell, Williams, Middlebury, etc. Furnished 50 men for State Ball at Armory, Albany, .Jan. 7, '97. College Commence- ments, Receptions, Weddings. Balls, Concerts, etc., a specialty. Address, LOUIS F. IIINKELl\:IAN, Mgr., Telephone 1240. 75 State St., Albany. I~5~E5 ~ ~~!R\lfll~lfn~rNJ5 ' / . ~ and other cut flowers · \ constantly on hand. . . . • a... GRUPE, The Florist, Bicycles Rented and Repaired. 307 STATE STREET. G®kDRINGS~ POPULAR FLORISTS. CHRYSANTHEMtlMS ·:· AND ·:· VIOLETS. 30 NORTH PEARL STREET. ALBANY, N.Y. '514 FULTON ST. 11 . TROY, N.Y. Ltrgest ManuJactnrers in lme\rica 'I I • I •• • I of Enginee:rs' and :surve,yars' lnstrnmentst. Also dealers in D.:ra:wi:ug Iustrun1ents and Ma teria:Ls. lllJ ~-!.C-~.~-----~-- seN~ * EtlQKAVEKJ, *· ..-.--ALBANY, N.Y. THE DELAVAN, ALBANY, N. Y. The Only Hotel in the City with FIRE-PiROOF ELEVA. TORS. CUISINE UNEXCELLED. American Plan, $2.50 and Upwa.rds. - European Plan, Rooms, 75c and U :pwards. 8. D. WYA'T'T ~ CO., E. :M. MOORE, Na.nager. E. G. HARTLEY, \Tb:e Union St. Grocer.n Fine assortment of Cigars, Tobacco, Pipes, &c. Saratoga Mineral Waters, Ginger Ale, &c. Fancy Groceries of all kinds. Larrabee's Cakes and Crackers. •'--,...-..~....,~ ••-------L. D. TELEPHONE 104. Telephone 38. 601--\\603 UNION STREET~ D·r0: Sunda: Tbe cont.e.sJ of. Fee Proi of the at Uth \Our 'fhe day, (! was a ness·~ until] On Mr. a scene their and~ by th( Wb The 3Ce Speci~ 1s c~

.......,__.AbVERTISEMEN·TS.- Lnir,or ro.p:ie5. D·r0: &a ymond pl~eached in Amsterdam last Sunday .. Tbe Ne;W York;S.tate Intercollegiate oratorkal cont'-.S1t wilthe·\:he.ldjn this ,c~ty on the evening of. Feert:ta.:1~y 1 1 • Professor Hale attended the altunni banquet of the Harvard a&sociation of Central New York at Utica last week. He responded to the toast \Our Club.\ 'fhe board of trustees met at Albany on Tues- day' for its regular semi-annual meeting. rfhere was a large attendance but no important busi ness was done and the meeting was adjourned until F'ebruary 25. On the· evening of January 19, the home of Mr. and Mrs. Jackson on Hulett street was the scene of a very pretty wedding, at which tirne their daughter Miss Anna Katheline Jackson and Mr.AaronJ. Bradt were united in marriage by the Rev. A. C. Sewall, D. D. Who .. is ••• C. GOETZ? The only Tailor in Schenectady who iluports goods direct from England. Just received a. large atSsortment for Fall a,nd Winter. C~LL AND S·EE THEM:. INSURANCE,, EVERY DE·SORIP':FION, B. CLEVELAND s:LOAN, 424: STA. TE STRE,E'T. When in want of Sandwiches by the dozen or hundred, call and get my prices. Also Boiled Ham, Pies, Coffee and Milk. G. E. BO'THAM, 214 GLI NT'ON ST. KEELER'S ,..~ • • EUROPEAN ..... HOTEL ANI) RESTi~QRANT, Broadway and Maid~Cn :Lane, ALBANY, N. Y. ·-\'''!~... • • <iENTLEMEN Q.NL Y. 2.50 ROOMS. • , • Ladies Restaurant Attacl1ed •.. • • 3 Central Arcade, SCHENE:CTADY,N. Y. WILLIAM H. KEELER, Prop. ANNEX-507 &509 BROADWAY. ~ARTISTIC PARISIAN- ;)py and p~eam. eieaninS and k>y'ein~ W Ol'~S. Alterations and Repairing a Specialty. Special rates given to Students. First-cla111s work gaaranteed. Goods called for and delivered free of charge. dACOB RINDFLEISGH, 18 Central Arcade. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. .. HIGH GRADE s.HoEs .. = -AT LOWEST PRICES.-- Op~n until 9 P. ll ... Work done at short n(>tiee. 245 State St. P ATTOlf k HALL.

''I :i '' '' i I i i to -ADVERTISEMENTS.- The largest and illest ·equipped in the State. \Excel- , : lent Dancing Hall., which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street, s~cHENECTADY, N.Y. The Ccli/Jrated D. L. & W. Coat, for sale by v:EE[)ER BR~o:s., No. 424 ST.A TE STREET. ]A. }t. Se}\}lFF0RB, (Successor to Van B. Wheaton), A PHOTO;GRAPHER, A aad dealer in Cameras and ·Pitl'Btographic Sup:plies. STUDIO, J..AY STREET. First-class work do:tH:l at the Studio for pt 'PUlar prices. Special attention given to out-of-door grouping. GroscrA & GARTLAND's ORCHESTRA. 496 Broadway, ALBANY, N. Y. Telephone 482. .. Union College, '91 to '97 IIamilton College, '90 to 97 Colgate University, '94 to '97 Williams' College, '91 to '97 Cornell University, ~go to '96 Governor's Mansion, '94 to '97 13J11\r.('YTE ~ k)E1t~J{FE~E(, ~ ~-- wholesale a..nd Retail Dealers in .... eOfl_L aQd WeeD Lime, Cement. Plaster, Hair~ Flour, I 306, 308 and 310 Union, l!,eed, Grain, Baled Hay, St:ra. -w 209 and 211 Dock St., a.nd Fertilizers. Schenectady, N. Y. .adc ~ lo., ... FLO}tiSTS ... • • • Choice Roses, Carnations, etc. 40 MAillEN LANE, L. T. CLUTE, me • HATTER AND 'FUR'RIER. Also, !.Ctl•unk·s, Bags, ,.,fi/wit Cases, Gloves, Umbrellas, Canes, Etc. 2'27 S'T'1\1E 81'RE'ET. At .. THoMAs' Music SToRE No. 15 NORTH PEARL ST., ALBANY, N.Y. You will find theW ASHBURN King- of Mandolins, Guitars, Banjos and Zithers. 'l'he Choicest Strings, Picks and Musical goods within 150 ·miles. 'l'he UNION CoLLEGE boys' trade is solicited and a dis- count offered. Fraternities and Societies should write for terms on PIANOS. •••••• THOMAS HAS THE BEST. E MBO SSE D-.,~~.~~~~.~.~111' UNION COLLEGE BY THE QUIRE, 100 OR 1000. ENVELOPES, NOTE HEADS, NEW AND HANDSOME DIES. CHAS. BURROWS, PRINTER, 412 STATE STREET. Wm. Doberman·n, Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand. ALBANY, N. Y. 104-106 Wall street, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. z:t Suppl] Masks: sau.1pl• site fo· Field, fits. 4 Su~nm Guara BILL BRl ME: WI }, SOB CF. All

-~ADVERTISEMENTS.-- 11 BASE DALL Supplies. Spalding League l3an, Mits, Masks, etc. Managers should send for sau.1ples and special rates. Every requi- site for T'ennis, Golf, Cricket, Tl~ack aud Field, G-ytnnasiutu Eq uipn1ents and Out- fits. Cotnplete Catalogue of spring and Supuner Sports f1·ee. ''The .N.a1ne the PtCKFoR~o sRo·s., .Un'ion Market. Guarantee.\ DEALERS IN ALL FRESH MEATS AND POULTI-~Y. :~Gam·e in season. Telephone 38-3. 602 UNION, COR. BARRETT STS. Friedman Bros., CHOICE MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 53 SouTH CENTRE ST. W:l ENC:K·E'S--\\\\'\\--1) r)ofi1Eu GE~MANIA AND ~ESJitAU~AN Jll .• . Wholesale and Retail BILLIARDS, PoOL AND BOWLING. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Cor. So. Centre and Liberty St. BRIAR, A1\1BER AND MEERSCHAUM Pipes. THE FINEST LINE IN TOWN AT WEBBER'S GEN1'RP\L PHARMACY, CoR. STATE ST. AND R. R. WILSON DAVIS, JJ!Iercl~a1~t Ta,ilo1~. No. 231' State St., ' SCHENECTADY, N. Y. CHAUNCEY FRENCH. SEWARD II. l!'RENCH. tfNI0N eOLLE6E B00K EXeJ1J\_]'fBE. All College Texts, Draughting Instruments and Materials, Pads, Pencils and all necessary college ~upplies. FISH, OYSTERS AND CLAMS, 102 So. CEN'rRE ST. Connnission dealers in Butter, Cheese, Eggs and Fruits. ~~.~ ... SCHENECTADY CijOTIIING CO., ..• THE LEADlNG ... ONE PRICE CASH CLOTH IEHS, HATTERS AND GENTS' FURNISHERS. 315 State Street. Schenectady, N.Y. Edison Hotel Building. A. G. HERRICK. UNION RESTAURANT, Cor. Centre and Franklin Sts. 21 Meals $3. Prompt ·service. Morton House, THOMAS VROOMAN, Prop., 17 & 19 So. CENTRE STREET. Good Livery and Boarding Stables Attached Table Board $3.50 Per Week.

i I ! '' 'I .. \ 12 -ADVERTISEM~NTS.----·- =--=-==·-=--=-=----=-~--==~~========~======================================~ TJiE ~QJ\fL '[ FL:Of\ISTS IN ALBANY Who own their own G-reenhouses, and run a first-class store. WHITTLE BROS. ALL CUT FLOWERS FRESHLY CUT. 10 No. Pearl St., Alba:ny, N. Y. Long Distance 'Telephone 156-2. THE BEST AND CHEAPEST DESIGNS. Fall Fashions and Fabrics Ready for your inspection a,t J·OHNSON''S, THE P·OPULAR TAILOR. z=r c. A·USTIN: ENGRA'VINGGO.,. 35 Maiden Lane. ALBANY,'N.'Y. J J.. • ••• 80 & 82 State St., Albany, N.Y. Photo. Engravers, Illustrators and Designers. Half Tone, Line Etch·i:ng ana Phusochrome. Send J!\or Estimates. College work a Specialty. S. ~ .. ~~~~~R. --3\~. M ' en s . . . F urnishi11g Goods. Sole agent for liAN AN & SON MEN'S SIIOES. 34 & 36 :Maiden Lane. ALBANY, N. Y. P. F. McBREEN F. A.. Vnn Vranken. INTEBCOLLIGIATE B'UB.E.AtT FoR CAPS, GOWNS:& HOODS. Illustrated Manual on application. Class contracts. a .specialty. COTTRELL ,& LEON·ARD, 4:72-4:78 B'way. ALBANY, :N. Y. • F. VanVranken. VF\N VRANKEN BROS., IMr>O~JI1IN6 <9AIUO~S, 48 NoRTH PEARL ST., Notraan Building. ALBANY, N. Y. R. T. MOIR~-----~ ... 218 William St.,. New York BOOKS, FINE STATIONERY, PICTURE FRAMING, WAL,L PAPERS, ETc. AL:EAAYDSY PRINTER EXRES • RQSES, CUi' FLOWERS FURNISHED Ai' SHORT N01'1GE. Shipped. to any part and guaranteed first-class. No. 11 No, Pearl St., Albany, N. Y~ STEAMSHIP AGENCY •••.• 888 State St., Sche-nectad/V' )(:. Y. READY FOR FALL: CLOTHING FOR ALL HEAD-TO-FOO·T. f\.LBANY, H. Y, 'Vo

