• ' 1 I i ' l ~ : ·.·1 '' : + + + +.THE + + + + . ' ': CONCORDIENSlS VOLUME XXVIIl :~·. DECEMBER 3, 1904 ... PUBLISHED WEEKLY .. BY NUMBER 10 r·--- co~-L~GE ~IBRARV L·-~- _ c_~L~~~~a:~ _ HtLL .. ~. _ THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

2 AD.'V ER TISEMENT~ ... U . u . •t nton · · .. ntverst y. ANDREW V. V. HAYMOND, D. D., LL. n., P:RESIDENT .. UNION COLLEGE,. SOHENBOTA.DY, N. Y. I. Course Leadil\g to the Degree of A. B. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B. S. J. Covrse Leadil\g to the Degree of Ph. B. 4. General Course Leading to t.be Degree of B. E. 5. Sa.nita·ry Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 6. Electrical Course Leading to the :Degree of B. E'. This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Electl'icity and its applications, in pla.ce o:f some of the General Engineering studies. This course is o:ffered in co-operation with the Edison General Electrie Company, un- der the immediate supervision of Prof. 0. P. Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A co-urse of one year o:ffered to gradua-tes of courses 4, 5 or 5. For cata.logues or for special information,. address BENJAl'rliN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Sche:nectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDJ(JJNE. Albany N.edical College.-Instruction by Lectures,.Reeita- tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Pra.-tical Operations. Hospi-tal and Laboratory advantages ex::ceHent. Catalogues and circulars containing fuU inf()rmation, sent on applica. tlon -to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar,. Albany. N.Y .. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Schooi.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. Itoccupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course lea.cling to the degree of LL. B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Ma-triculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SOHDOL, W. R. DAVIDSON, Secretary Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College Building. For catalogue ;,nd information address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary,~ Albany, l\1. Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty ·Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. ' F. C. KRUEGER & CO •. The Up-to .. date Grocery House FULL AND COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their Season. 142 & J44 STATE STREET. Dr. St. Elmo N. ~Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State~alld Clinton Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BONBONS and c'HOCOLATES Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon's The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, .Schenectady, N. Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWNS and HOODS to the Ameriea::n.O()Jleges an.d Universi- -ties from the Atlan.tic to .tbe Pacific. Class cf1iftitoa.cts .a sp~ctalfy. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 237 State St. Schenectady,. N. Y.

ADVl RTISEMEiVTS. 3 I I THE TENEYCK .,A.LE,..ANY? ~- Y. :J?ositi\\'Vel:y Fi:re-Froof. Euro,pean Pial\. Most attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITOL and other places of iBterest. Restaurant and Ori:ll Special Features. Orchestra Music during evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. H. J. ROC,KWELL ®. SON KEELER'S Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and :Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlemen (i)nlly 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attached Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. .Annex, 507 fU 50' Broadway .•. THE .·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY,_N. Y. T!te Larg·est a1ul Best Appointtd Huttl in tlze City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. ~---...-..-- .... ~~~. The best place for \ 0 .· .' •E ~ ·B· y CANDlES, TOBACCO I\ lee Crean1, Cigarettes S 0 D A, C I G A R S 511 UNION ST. Three blocks from the campus Established 1845 Incorporated 1900 W. & L. E. GURLEY, TROY~N. Y. Largest Manufacturers in America of Field Instrutnents for Civil Engineers' and and Surveyors', also makers of Physical and Scientific Instrutnents of all kinds and U. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing Instruments, Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T-squares, Triangles, Curves, Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, H.ubber, Scientific Books, Anernorneters, Barorneters, Thermorneters, Magnifiers, Etc. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by C. GOETZ, Tailor 3 Central Arcade Scl\.enectady, N. Y. E. C. HARTLEY, Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full line of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UNION STREET For Hats. Caps, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases, Etc., go to M~MANN'S Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. YATES' BOAT HOUSE The L11.rgest and BeRt Equipped in the Statt>. Excellent Dancing· Hall, which ran be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with house. 29 Frol\t Street Schen.ectady, N.Y.

AD VER 71SEJJ, ENTS. Photographs LEVI 8V/00RE f 5 North Pearl St.:~ Alhany~ N. Y. Special R.ates to St:ude~ts A,ppo·intments by Mail or Telepbon.e HOPKINS & CO. ~~TTT . k f fh' ~·~ rre ma e our own cw mg. 64 North Pearl St. CiOLLEGE TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS ALBANY, N. Y. ~-·~,.. Our fall and winter line of brown suitin.gs and overcoat- ings is now complete in the Custom Tailoring, as well as Ready-to- Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be exceLed. Suits and Overcoats from $15.00 to $60.00 The Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WAL'l'ON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel BuHding 313 and 315 State Street cALLEN'S CJ300KSTORE 508 FULTON ST., TROY; N.Y. cAll Union College Text Books Second Hand and New:~ in stock Long Distance Telephone LIMMER & EVANS .• Florists .• Van cLurler <Dpera 1)ou5e LORRAINE BLOCK STATE STREET C. H. BENEDICT TELEPIIONE 'No. :il5 Both Phones Manager r i i

i i - THE CoNcoRDIENSI.s VOL. XXiVJJJ. UNIOJ\T COLLEGE, DEC. 3, I904. No. IO INTERESTIN:G LETTER FROM BRAZIL. Alumnus Tells of His Work Since Gradua- . bon. Early in the fall, the missionary committee of the Y. M. C. A. wrote to several Union alumni who ate in the foreign mission field, asking them to write to the association about their work and o·f the greatest needs of their field. It was thought that in this way the members of the association would. become more interested in foreign missions. rn response to this request, the following letter was received last week: Caixa 9 2, Bahia, Brazil. I shall be glad to do anything in my power to help the boys get or keep up an interest in mis- sions. In my day I do not think we thought much about them though Can tine '8 3 and myself are dabbling in the business a bit now. I just heard that \Guv\ Mosher, whom I knew as the most un- mitigated terror of a Capitol Hill gamin to be found in Albany, is also at it in Shanghai. How I should enjoy comparing experiences with them! My own experiences have been mixed. You see I was one of \Prof.\ Staley's engineers, so when I got out here and they wanted to found an Ameri- can college in completion of the mission school system the job of starting the scientific and engi- neering side of the college fell to me. I put in 8 years of hard work as dean of the Mackenzie Col- lege and only left it when it could walk alone. After a furlough (in 18 9 9) I was transferred to evangelistic work and took charge of this city sta- tion. Bahia is a city of 250,000-more than one- half negroes-with 85 Romish churches, 30 fetish grounds, 2 morgues and some Protestant mission work. For nearly 30 years my predecessors had been at work and had sown much seed with little visible result. It was given me to \enter into their labors\ in a special sense and now after a little more than 4 years, I am. turning the ·church over to a :Brazilian pastor who was once my pupil in the Mackinzie. In 1905 I expect to live at Cach- ouira in this state. All my life I have been the victim of a mis- fortune. My accounts always come out straight. Consequently I generally have the job of mission treasurer and business man in general. This is a part of my present lot and gives me much hard work for our men are widely scattered and the treasurer has much to do for them. 1902-3 were pleasant years for me. I was obliged to leave the work here largely to the eld- ers of the church and itinerate in an up-country field. The district was new to the Gospel and for 20 months I had the thrilling joy of carrying the Good News to ears that had never heard that \Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners.\ In that time I founded two churches and visited very closely a district larger than New Jersey and \scattered myself over\ about 50,000 square miles. I hoped to retain the field but the ill health of a colleague called for hill work and I turned it over to him. Next year I expect to spend some time in the same district and perhaps move to it a bit later if you will help me. You say the boys want to contribute a small sum of money to some definite work. I can show some fellow a better way. We need in this mission a young man to fill this post. ( 1). To serve as teaching principal of our Cen- tral Mission school. This has a course which in- cludes primary, grammar and high school classes and some Normal study-. -10 years in all from the start. We now have 70 pupils and can have more when we have a man for it. He would teach High school science and mathematics. We have plenty of good primary and grammar teachers. (2). To superintend the other mission schools and act as advisor to the pastors in parochial school matters. ( 3 ). To act as mission treasurer.

\ 6 THE ·CONCORDJENSiS. ( 4). To reside in and generally superintend the boys' boarding .department. (5). Any other kindred work that may turn up. Any earnest, sensible, Christian man -who has finished sophomore year in either Classical, Scien~ tific or Engineering work-who has taught school with success-who know$ a sensible Christian woman-· preferably a teacher-who wiiJ marry him and come to the field to work for Christ with him will fill the bill. The Board ( 156 5th Ave. N. Y. C.) has voted to appoint him if he turns up and he will get his chance to come by asking for it and showing fitness. For a year we have been looking for him. We do not want a preacher-few of us preach- ers have the sense the job calls for. We do not want a college professor-no college professor could get his gun on the work without a dog to point it for him and we haven't the dog. We want one of those fellows who were teaching school and doing a selection of things to climb in the world and finally decided that college was a good lad- der. To such a man we say \You are right up to the stopping off floor for a job that wHl do more good in the world than most men ever see done. If you are a Senior, plan to come out in July and we will wait for you. If you are a. Junior, come as soon as you can. If you have any glim- mer of interest in the question write m.e about it and I will give you full information. Tell me all about yourself when you write. Billy Wells and Ripton are my references. P.S.-Every year on your head above 21 up to 25 will be an advantage. Not a conventional missionary letter is it? I wish I had time to tell you some yarns that would do for the \Grand-Old-Seat-of-Stone\ audiences but Lammy drilled me so thoroughly on \Advan- tages and Disadvantages\ that I get prosaic, not to say prosy, when I get a pen in my hand. Suppose I turn the tables on you fellows and ask you for a Union letter from the Volunteers and others in- terested in mission work-a letter that will give me some idea of who and what you ar.e. I am a lot more interested in you than you can be in me for I put in some years amid the scenes you now enjoy and can enter into your life while until I get the guage of the reader I cannot make him see my surroundings or live my life. If any fellow who hopes to carry the message to the u. ttermost parts wants a .South American correspondent I am at your orders. Very sincerely, W. A. WADDELL, '82. COLLEGE BRIEFS. The Union College Alumni Association ·Of New York will hold its annual reunion and banquet Thursday evening, Dec. 8, 1904, at the Hot~l Man- hattan, Madison Avenue and 42d St. Among Union's distinguished speakers for the evening appear the names o.f Andrew W. Gleason '60, and William H. McElroy '60. Alumni of the Medical and Law Departments will attend. * * * * Plans for a Junior week have been taken up ser- iously by the .Junior class and Imrie, president of the class has appointed the following committee to investigate: 'Mead, Classen, vVadsworth, Dwight, Cook and L. H. Peebles. * * * * At the second meeting of the Engineers' Club from the eastern section of the State last Thurs- day evening, Professor Steinmetz read a paper on \In1proved Methods of Illumination.\ The meet- ing was held in the college chapel at 8:15 and was preceded by a dinner at Redmond's new res- taurant. * * * * The Glee and Instrumental Clubs will have their regular rehearsals at Silliman Hall, Monday even- ing at seven and eight o'clock respectively. The clubs are working steadily and deserve the support of the students; pay up your musical tax, and get square, boys. The quartette have received an invitation to attend the Alumni Banquet at New York City, early in December. * * * * Thanksgiving night the Y. M. C. A. entertained those students who remained in college through the vacation, at Silliman's Hall. Mrs. Stoller, Dr. Raymond and several of the faculty were present

THE~ :CON,CORDIENSJS. 7 and all enjoyed a pleasant evening around the open fires and the refreshments served later. * * * * Professor Steinmetz delivered a lecture on .. ~rrade Unionism From an Outsider's Point of V~ew\ last Sunday before the Labor Lyceum. * * * * Donald Hawkes, '0 2, was on the hill this week. * * * * The next Junior Hop wiill occur on Saturday evening, December 1Oth. The tickets are $1 apiece. This is the secohd dance of the· series and , every man in college should go down to the Eoat House that evening and show whether or n0t he wants the dances to continue. The committee has worked hard and guarantees the best of everything. Parsons and Rubens, who have already proved their worth, will furnish the music. * * * * At a meeting of the Philomathean Society Tues- day night, Ellenwood for the negative, defeated Elmendorf for the affirmative, on the question, Resolved-That the present system of election of U. S. Senators is preferable to the so-called pop- ular election. Y. M. C. A. Tuesday of this week, Mr. Walter T. Diach, state secretary of the student department of the Y. l\:1. C. A., visited the association. During the after- noon he met the different committees and went over with them the work already done and offered many plans and suggestions for its continuance. At the evening service, he gave a very helpful and interesting talk. Taking his subject from. Paul's letter to th13 R01nans, where he states that he is \not ashamed of the gospel of Christ,\ the speaker went on to say that if Paul was not ashamed to stand for Christ under the conditions that then existed, he saw no reason why the college man of the present day should :be ashamed to do the same. Weier '06 was leader of the meeting. The December meeting of cabinet will be held next Wednesday at 5 o'clock. The subject of the meeting next Tuesday is \vVhy not study on Sunday?\ The leader will be Hunt '(:)5. The first m~eeting of the mission study class will be held Sunday afternoon at 4:30. The first part of the course will be biographical. The life of David Livingston will be the first lesson. It is earnestly hoped that many of the fellows will avan themselves of this opportunity of learning about smne of our greatest missionaries. You are in- vited to j,oin the class. Prof. Hoffman will give the third of his talks on the Bible Sunday at 5 o'clock. \THE BIBL:E; WHAT IT IS-WHAT IT IS NOT.\ Second Talk of the Series. At vesper service of Sunday, November 20th, Dr. Hoffman gave the second of his talks on \The Bible; What it is-What it is Not.'' Dr. Hoffman began with a review of the ·:fa~ts pointed out in the preceding talk,-that all human be:ngs establish some kind of a religion, that our judgment of the Bible must be in accordance with what we ourselves get from it, that we have no right to say we will believe everything in it, that every age is placing a value and an interpreta- tion on certain points in the Bible which vary according to the needs of its civilization. There are som.e things which existed long before the Bible and which will always continue to exist. The first is God, the second man, and the third the material world. The Bible can be of no use to God or to the world, therefore it must have been written for the benefit of man-to show him his relation to God and nature. According to Socrates 1nan's greatest need is to know himself, but we should also seek to know nature or the world about us and through the knowledge of these two things we may come to know our rela- tion to God. We would not believe a statement in any ordi- nary book which collides with our knowledge of the world about us. Suppose in taking up the Bible we saw some such passage as \And God said unto Moses all water runs uphill.\ Any man true to himself would not believe it from his know!-.

8 THE CONCORDlENSIS. edge of nature. If any man tried to believe Sil:lch things his thoughts would soon be ~n a state of chaos. It would be easy for him to say that he believes, but really he takes one of two positions. Either he knows the statement is false or else he does not understand it. We go to no bool{ saying we will believe everything in it and the Bible should be just as open to investigation. THE SKATING RINK. Completed at Last After a Long Wait. Last year the skating rink committee used to report at varying intervals that work would soon be begun on it. This was all well enough until the committee reported great progress about the latter part of May and then we lost hope. This fall as soon as college opened a new com- mittee was appointed .a..nd instructed to \get busy\ which instruction it followed and today there is, on the large plat of ground near the chapel, a good-sized rink all banked for flooding. The committe~ which is under the direction of C. S. Arms '05 has had a great deal of difficulty in getting the rink ready for use on account of the extreme cold weather early in the season. It is expected that the rink will be flooded next week and ready for use. HOCKEY TEAM. The thought which naturally occurs when talk- ing about a skating r:ink is that of a hockey team. Last year some of the fellows got together and formed a team by no m.eans unworthy to represent Union College. This year, with a good place to practice and the o1d players back it is expected that we will be able to hold our own with other colleges which have teams and consequently Man- ager Arms has written Amherst, Williams, Ham- ilton and other colleges which have excellent teams. CROSS COUNTRY ·CLUB. On the Monday after the New York University game a cross country club was formed for the pur- pose of keeping up some form of athletic activity during the remainder of the term. About fifty feHows met, and a good deal of enthusiasm was aroused. It was agreed to hold two runs a week ' one a regular cross country run and the other a 1<1are and hound chase. Dr. Towne, at whose instigation the club was :foTmed, was elected president. He appointed Capt. Raymond of the track team, the cross ·country leader, and also the following scent com1nittee frorn the class of 190 8 for the hare and hound runS': Flowers, chairman; W. P. Hildreth, Par- sons and Schoolcraft. The ·first run, a hare and hound chase, was heid Wednesday afternoon. The weather was ideal and the run proved very successful which should en- courage other fellows. 'Jl\he next run will be he:ld this morning at 11 o'clock. The c1 ub cordially invites all men in college who need and are anx- i.ou.s for out-door exercise to take part in these runs. PHARMACY. Elliott, Walker and Loneys '05, were recently notified that they had passed the examinations for license as pharmacists in this State. A quiz class is being formed to prepare for the December board. The Junior class entered chemical laboratory for the first time on Saturday last. The final examination in Physics takes place on Saturday, Dec. 10th. lVIr. Rutman announced that the laboratory work in practical dispensing would shortly be completed and that Volumetric analysis of phar- macopacial preparations would take its place. It is unfortunate that this course cannot be contin- ued throughout the entire course for while the volumetric work is valuable no one will deny that the dispensing is of more practical utility. Salaries of pharmacists in state institutions have been raised from $50 to $75 and a movement is on. foot to give them a uniform social status. Dr. Edmund J. James, president of North- western University, says the disappearance of men students from the co-educational institu- tions in the Mississippi Valley may be only a mat- ter of time. ! . f( b v I1 I

THE CONCORDIENS!S. 9 ~~- ---~- -_- _____ - __ ·:._: --=== :KAPPA ALPHA EN:TERT AINS. .A.ntrd a:. p:rofusion of evergreen ar.td seasonal foliage and lights, softened by cunningly wrought shad.es, the local chapter of Kappa. Alpha enter- tained a number of its fri-ends Friday, Nov. 18th, by a.. reception and dance at the _Lodge. Lunch was served by IJoberm.ann; Parsons furni::;hed the music. Among those pFesent were Dr. and Mrs. Hoffman, Dr. and Mrs. Stoller, Dr. and Mrs. V\Tilliams, Mrs. Hale, Mrs. Linn, Mrs. Lawsing, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Briggs, Miss Brice of Albany; Miss Van Schoonhoven of Troy; Misses Graves, };inn, Elizabeth Yates, Margarite Yates, Scher- merhorn, Bates, Ostrom, Featherston.haugh, Pear- son, Button, Kriegsmann, Grace Gilbert, Thoin- son, Lundgren, Peck, McMullen, Wright, Hoff- man, Osborne, Griffith; Prof. Opdyke, Messrs. Yates, Parker, Van Epps, Peet, Gardner, Stebbins, Moreland King, Thomson, Ellenwood, Warner .. King, Wadsworth, Vedder, Rider, Classen, Peebles, Edgerton, Imrie, Stothhoff, A. B. Law- rence, W. C. Yates, Hatch, Fiero, Bascom, Cool, Law.sing, J. J. Lawrence and the members of the active chapter. PHI DELTA THETA CONVENTION. The Phi Delta Theta fraternity has just held its biennial convention at Indianapolis, Indiana, dur- ing- Thanksgiving week. New York Beta was rep- resented by Mr. Harry N. Haight. Of the eight petitions for charters none were granted. It was one of the largest conventions the fraternity has ever held, there being over three hundred Phis present. ALUMNI. '\68.-George \Vestinghouse has recently been granted two patents on a controlling system for electric motors. * * * * '00.-1\ielvin T. Bender and Harold J. Hinman, ~99, published last week through Matthew Ben- der, '66, of Albany, \Constable's guide; contain- ing a full exposition of their rights, privileges, duties, and liabilities, giving the statutes, both civil and criminal, of the State of New York.\ The price of the book is $1.5 0 . * * * * '41.-Rev. Saurin Eliot Lane, D. D., died at Lit- tleton, Mass.,. Nov. 25, 1904. He was born at Townsend, Vt., Aug. 21, 1821. His boyhood edu- cation was acquired under private tutors. He graduated from Union Theological Seminary in 1844. He spent two years in further study and travel and was ordained by the Albany Presbytery, Oct. 2 2, 184 5. Dr. Lane was pastor of the Pres- byterian .church at Galway, N. Y., from 1847-62 and at Carmel, N. Y., from 1863-69. He was in South Carolina from 1869-73 and during the days of the \reconstruction\ performed loyal service both for the church and the country. He was stated supply at Point Pleasant, West Virginia, fron1 18 7 4-78 and at East Marshfield, Mass., from 1882-83. He was without charge at South Farm- jngham, Mass, from 1883-87, and at Auburndale in 18 8 8. He has since lived at South Boston, Littleton and Boston, Mass. Dr. Lane was mar~ ried to Miss Elizabeth Toll of Schenectady, in 1844 and of the five children born to them, three sur- v:ve him. After the death of his first wife, he 1narried Miss Louise Devons of Charlestown, Mass. Dr. Lane's record as a minister has been a long and honorable one. Dr. Lane was a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity and of the Philoma- thean Society. * * * * '61.-Rev. George Robinson, D. D., chaplain at Fort Wayne, Detroit, Michigan, has been pro- moted fron1 the rank of captain to that of major. In point of service, Maj. Robinson is the oldest chaplain in the United States Army, having served 27 continuous years. On his retiren1.ent, March 19, 1905, he will receive the rank of lieutenant colonel. * * * * '64.-Brandt G. Smythe is an attorney-at-law at Newark, Ohio. His address is 69 North 4th Street. * * * * '72.--Andrew W. Archibald has offered his res- ignation as pastor of the Porter Evangelical Con- gregational church at Brockton, Mass. Mr. and Mrs. Archibald will travel throug·h the Orient.

zo 7.HE CONCORDJENSIS. The C d . . : ·on cor·_: 1ens1s. eA Litera'(;)' and :J(cws .Weeklp ?ublished by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNliVERSI'TY. BOARD OF EDIT~ORS, E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. 'C\ HART, 'o5, F. W. MILLER, 'o6, E. G. SIMONS,. 'f' 5, R. J. NOWELL, 'o5, M.. 1'. RAYMOND, 'o5, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. :C. FIERO, 'o4, R. B. SMITH, Editor-in-Chief Busi mess Manager A sst Busi n:ess .Manager Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor La'W' Depart:ment Phanmac y D·epartm·ent ASSOCIATE EDITORS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, W. KING. 'o6, D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, P. L. ~CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. FBED, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. :REPORTORIAL STA:FF. E. C. BRAD£EER, 'o7, M. H. ELLIOTT, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, 'o7, L. S. PARSONS,'o7, H. E. :CANTWELL, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, 'o7, A. H. V/IHTE, 'o7, W. S. SPEIR, 'o7. CO·LLE(iE DIRECTOHY. Football (,F. C. Patton, Captaia; I L. L. Odell, Manager. { Paul Hagar, Capt8in; Baseball A. J. Thompsou, Mallager. 7 k { rv1 T. Raymond, CaptaiH; rae W. T. Hunt, Manager. Gl Cl l { _- B. W. Reed, Leader; ee U'J - J. R. Stevens, Jr., lVla nager. 1 t l Cl b J B. W. Reed) Leader; nstrumeu a u i J. R. Stevens~ Jr., Manager C d . . { E. J. Ellenwood, E_-_ d-itor; oncor zenszs L. C. Hart, Mana,g:er. G S S. J. Raymond, Edit<H; arnet 1 A. G. Chapman 7 Managet:. y M C A ) Malcolm McGregor., President; · · · · ·) W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSlS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per \\Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all cornmunications to THE Co NCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, l't Y. Publication :Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. A WELCOME NUISANCE. The Journal of Quee11's University 'Can- ada, con1n1enting 011 the r:ecent article, \Fraternity Spirit Versus College Spirit,\ written by an altnnnus and published in 1'he Concordiensis, says: \Union is not the onJy college in which fraternities have proved the1nselves a nuis-- ance.\ ·Our able conte1nporary has misjudged the motive of the article and formed a -conclu- sion from a series of facts which depict only one side of the history. Union has lived arJ,d thrived with her fraternal brood even when they had to cling to her skirts for support. They are all standing alone now on both feet, and we cannot make ourselves believe that they are hindering in any way the progress of the college that gave them life. Greek letter fraternities stand too high in the college world and, we hope, in the other world, to allow Union to forget to tip her chin when it is casually observed that in r825 the first fraternity was christened under a Greek letter na1ne with Union as its mother. Five others c[aim the same rela- tionship. Children someti1nes err. Union's have not been models of good behav~our, we know. Unworthy and disgraceful acts have in many instances characterized their conduct. But with all their faults the col- lege loves them still. BREAKING UP SLEEP. At the football dinner in New York sev- eral ah1111ni took occasion to co1nment on Union's dead condition in the newspapers. These n1en ought to be pretty good judges of states of consciousness for they interpret different forn1s of such states every day in the papers which they represent. Anyhow they said that Union wasn't rep- resented as she should be in the public press. They said that she didn't seem to realize what a good thing it was to have alumni I. 1

I. 1 II THE CONCORDIENSIS. ====================================== AN OPPORTUNITY. on the staff .of nearly every paper in New York City. Not knowing whorn to blan1e they decided it was the ~an1t of The Concordiensis. It vvoulcl seen1 strange to an observer to note that Union University has a successful basketball tean1 but is getting no credit for \ATe n1iay he prejudiced, perhaps, hut vve fail to see how this paper with the Etnited tin1e anct other disadvantages which go with it can be ex.pectecl to furnish outside itself, and in an able way, all the news of this col- lege for the newspapers. V\T ere everything at its disposal, :it is questionable if it should hy right asstn11.e that responsibility. It don't it. The Law teatn has already a schedule for five gan1es. Two of these have been won and one -vvas lost by one point. It is known about college that there is exist for that purpose. As a bit of news to those who have for- g-otten let ns hereby announce that a Press Club was for1ned last year. It had a pur- pose. T!h_is was stated in the Club's consti- tution as. follows: \The o1Jject of the Cluh shall be, \To irnprove the position of the college in the pHbiic press, \(a) By seeing that the proper news is sent o1:1t; (b) By seeing that it is sent to the prop- er places.\ There's the reason for its forrnation clear- ly rendered. It held two tneetings and ap- peared in the 1905 Garnet several times. After that it retired behind a hedge and be- gan a drea1nless nap. Although the breathing space for our clubs and organizations is rather sn1all, yet the Chess and Cross Country Clubs elbow in, probably in the hope that son1e of the others around then1 will be decently buried to n1ake room. J nst because an alnn1nns wants a student to get 1narriecl and go to Brazil is no reason why there should be several applicants for the position. The war is on and tnay the steatn ptpes . W111. A full review of Union's football season wiU appear in the next issue. so1ne rather notable basketball tnaterial here. 1\1 ust it go to waste? A. 'varsity tean1 con1posecl of the law and college players would make a strong show- ing. This seen1s an open chance to increase our athletic reputation to the welfare of the university. The opportunity is too good to let slip. Manager Thotnson inforn1s t1s that there is still n1ore to be learned about the Union- N. Y. U. baseball gan1e last spring than was given in the report in the last issue and which n1ay son1ewhat change the bearing of the affair. 'fhe coach could hardly expect as n1any congratulations and good wishes if every- body didn't feel that he would be back here next year. THE BOlLING POT. REFERENDUM EST ASHMORIBUS. Latin Professor-\Miss S., give the principal parts of the verb 'to accept.' \ Miss S. (aside to Miss M. )-\What is it Bess?\ Bess-\Darned if I know.\ Miss 8.-\Darndifino darndifinare, darndifi- navi, drandifinatum.\ Prof.-\What verb are you giving?\ Miss S. -\Darndifino.''-Ex. ·* * * * WHEN THE CHAPEl~ BELL RINGS. 'I'vvo worlds there are. In one I live. And in the other seem . The one doth perfect pleasure give, The other is a dream. -Rutgers Targum.

I2 THE COl\lCORDlENSIS. FITTING CLIMAX T,Q' THE FOOT- BALL S:EASON. Union Outplays N:. Y. U. in Every Depart- ment of the Game-· Score 21 ... ..~0. About five thousand football enthusiasts gath- ered on the grand stand and bleachers, saw Union defeat decisivel'Y N. Y. U. on their own. Ohio field. The grand stand was packed with .supporters of the violet while across the gridiron a couple of hundred Union men kept things enlivened by :songs and yells of Old Union. Union's teamwork was . fine, not once during the game was there a fum- ble. Patton and Becker figured largely in the scoring and never once failed to make the required distance, while Harvey and Moore made good their reputation as ground-gainers. The excellent man- ner in which Davis and vVright stopped the end plays of N. Y. was very gratifying to the Garnet spectators and as for the line, every man played a strong, hard game. Credit must be given to every man on the team for excellent work- above all credit is due to Bill Sn1.ith who has coached the team in such a highly successful manner. FIRST HALF. Union won the toss and chose the south goal. Coe kicked off to Union's ten yard line to Moore • who advances it 2 0 yards. Union gains 2 0 yards on the next five plays which are only interrupted by New York's being penalized twice for holding. Union makes first down in three plays but after being penalized for ten yards, McNab tries for a drop kick but fails, the ball falling on N. Y. D.'s two yard line where the runner was downed. Belcher made 5 yards to which were added by Rogge, Cragin, Reynolds, ten, 3 and 2 yards re- spectively. Raldaris was injured but resumed play. It may be remarked here that at no time in the game was there more -than thirty seconds delay by Union men. N. Y. tried a fake but made no gain. Rogge was given the ball and made 3 yards. N. Y. punted 6 yards and Union got the ball on the '30 yard line. Although penalized 10 yards Union makes 3 3 yards on the next six plays .anj the ball is on New York's five yard line. On the next piay Harvey carries it over for a touch- down. Patton miss·ed the goal. Score-5-0. Moore kicked of.f to New York's 10 yard Une to Belcher who brought it back 10 yards. Time was taken out for Reynolds. N. Y. advanced the ball 10 yards and were then obliged t0 punt. Harvey got the baH 30 yards back on Union's 40 yard Hne. Union now brought the ball steadily down the field taking no more than two plays to make first down. The half ei'lded with the ball on N. Y.'s 40 yard tine. Bcore-·-Union, 5; N. Y. U., 0 . During the intermission the N. Y. U. student body formed a parade, singing \Voilet\ and others of their college songs-and were answered back by Union's terrace song. Then Captain Patton's team came on the field apparently as fresh as they were when the :fi.rst half began. N. Y. U. was late coming on the field. SECOND HALF. Moore kicked off to N. Y.'s goal line to Cragin who slipped, but recovered himself and advanced the ball about 3 yards. Belcher made 3 more and then Union braced and N. Y. was obliged to punt. Union caught the ball on the 20 yard line. The ball was passed to Dann who made a very difficult run of 6 yards as N. Y. U. was stubbornly con- testing every inch of the ground. Moore evidently forgot this when he carried the ball 6 yards more the next play. Becker made 51;k more and the following play ·was shoved over for a touchdown. Patton kicked a difficult goal. Score-Union, 11; ~. Y. U., 0. Moore kick,ed the ball to the 5 yard line and Cragin advanced it 20 yards. N. Y. now tried a quarterback run but they had forgotten Von Dannenberg was in the game and consequently raade no gain. Rogge made 4 yards and Belcher 15, but N. Y. was penalized 10 yards for offside playing. N. Y. then made 7 yards on a fake kick. Hulsart made 2 more and the ball went to Union, on downs. Union advanced the ball 4 5 yards and Moore made a touchdown. Union made big gains through the line. N. Y. fought stubbornly, but Union's back field formation and perfect team work was to much for the Violet line. Score-.-

THE CO/vCORDIEl\!SlS. I'J Unton, 17; N.Y. U., 0. lY.[oore ki-cked to Reilley who ran back 1'5 yards. N. Y. U. tried but o:ne play and then Rogge made a nne punt of 50 yards. MacNab brougb.t it back 10. Robinson now took quarterback. Union ad- vanced the !baH 55 yards and Patton pushed it over for a touchdown. Score-Union, ~1; N. Y. song books printed for the occasion containing the favorite songs of olden days when Wieneke's and others such were in .full power. There were about forty Alumni present and needless to say the occasion did not 1ack Union spirit. u., o. The ball was on Union's ~ 5 yard line when time was called soon. after the last score was made. After the gaine a hundred and fifty tJnion root- ers paraded across the gridiron: singing the song of victory so dear to the heart of Union men. Line up: N.Y. U. UNION. Wylie ....................... Davis (Hildreth) left end. Reilley (Capt.) ................. Patton (Capt.) left tackle. Coe ......................... -Von Dannenberg left guard. G-orham ................................ Ntltt centre. Raldaris .................... Norwood (Kluge) right guard. Reynolds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dann right tackle. Lowry ...................... Wright (Shutler) right end. Hulsart (Manchee) ......... McNab (Robinson) quarterback. Rogge (Van Winkle) ................... Harvey left halfback. Belcher (:Mowen) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moore right halfback. Cragin . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Becker (Raymond) fullback. Referee-Mr. Hockenberry, s:lyracuse. Umpire -Mr. Van Tyne, Trinity. Head Lineman-Mr. Saunders, Columbia. Time of Halves-25 min- utes. \Touchdowns-Harvey Becker, Moore, Patton. Goal-Patton. THE BANQUET. After the game the squad and a number of un~ dergraduates went downtown to a restaurant where the N. Y. Alumni had arranged a banquet. The banquet hall was in tmitation of an old French gun. The tables were each arranged in the form of a U. The committee in .charge had Mr. Allison '84, acted as toastmaster and spoke of the season as the most successful in the history of football at Union. He mentionel, also, the ex- cellent teamwork of the eleven, adding that there was not a single fumble of the baH during the entire game. The next speaker was Andrew Gleason of the class of 18:60. Mr. Gleason had the audience in an uproar from the time he began his impression on football until he finished. Captain C.ulver '89, was then introduced and told how Union's first team was organized and of its variable successes in the athletic world. He was followed by Messrs. Bennett '8 7, Klein '95 and Barney '84, who all made some happy re- marks on Union and her graduates. .. Then came Captain Brown '95 with his story of the great victory over Cornell and how it was done. He was followed by Captain Gregory '94, who told of other victories and some defeats. Mr. Sa>1s '98 of the \Globe\ spoke on the sub- ject of Union's publicity. He regretted the fact that there is no active Press Club in college to send the athletic news to the N. Y. papers. He added that nearly every paper in N. Y. had a Union man connected with it and that it would be an easy matter, indeed, to have excellent ac- counts of all our athletic events appear in the dailies. His suggestions were well received. Manager Odell spoke of the finances of the ath- letic association and told the manner in which the money is raised to support the various teams. Various alumni then suggested schemes for raising money and although all were not the same iil. every point, they all agreed on one thing- that-Bill Smith is the coach for Union and that he must be :persuaded to return next season. To facilitate matters a co1nmittee was appointed headed by F. Klein '95, to arrange plans for rais- ing funds. A toast was drunk to next year's team and Captain Ernest Dann 1906, predicting a highly

! I \ I ,: I r i i :! '4 THE CONCORDIENSIS. $uccessful .season and a worthy leade1' of a victor- ious team. 'The affair terminated with The Song to Old Union. Those present besides the squad were: Messrs. Gleason '6 0 ;, Allison '8 4; Barney '8 4; iBrown '9 5; C1,1lver '8 9; Johnson '9 0; Crannell '95 ; Klein '9 5; Gregory '94; Sands, '98; Ward Bennet~t '87; Bar- Miss Edith J. Slade was bridesmaid and George J. Corbett· of New York aeted as groof!lsman. After a reception at the residence of the bride's mother, Mr. and Mrs .. Srnitl:l left for a wedding trip and wHl reside in Brooklyn. Bill Smitll graduated from Union in '99. He et:t:- tered Columbia Law School in the fall and grad- stow '89; Weed ',01; Bolles '0.3.; Carver '02; Shaw uated in '·02. He began to coach the Union foot- '02; Gillespie '02; Gould '03; Gardiner '04; Smith '04; Andrews '04; Olmstead '04 ;. Block '(!)2; Me- Coombs '04; Davis '06; Barnes '06; Chapman '06; R~eder '06; and Elmendorf '05. UNION'S FOOTBALL COACH MARRIES. BiU Smith Ends Successful Season in Unique Way. In the fall of 1903, a year .ago, Union's lucky football star went out behind a clo'l!ld and there was gloom in athletic circles on the hill. That season ended with 142 points against U·nion. Last Saturday the 1904 season ended with 21 points. against Union, and the same star shone with a brilliancy not quite surpassed ~eretofore. There was cause for rejoicing, and everybody did rejoice in his own good way. On the Monday following the New Y·ork game Bill Smith was married. It is doubtful if a more appropriate time could have been chosen. The bride was Miss Bertha M1cintosh of Water- ford and the ceremony was perfor:m.ed at St. Mary's church of that place. Rev. A. H. Valiquette perform.ed the ceremony. 230 State St. The mer{ s sfioe that makes men talk F earey ~ s Nabob 3.50 FEAREY'S bail team in 'no. In ''0 1 he was again coach. In '02 another coach was tried and the result was disappointing in the extreme. Consequently he coached again in '03. Present signs declare that he wiil return every fall from now on if it is left for the students to decide. He has been singularly successful in his coaching work, and the good he has done Union in athletie lines has made him one of the most popular and best known of Union's younger alumni. THE FOOTBALL SMOKER. Alpha Delta Phi Acts the Genial Host. The successful football season was brought to a fitting conc!Jusion by a smoker on Tuesday evening, November 22, given to the faculty, football squad and the upper classmen by the members of Alpha Delta Phi at their chapter house. A more oppor- tune time could not have been chosen. As the result of a splendid season, climaxed by the vic- tory over New York University, college feeling ran high and everyone entered enthusiastically into the spirit of the occasion. Those who cared to smoke found an abundance of the \weed\ and soon Nicot.ine was receiving an oblation of sweet Schenectady

THE :CONCORD!ENSIS. !5 swelling incense offered up in braziers of corn cob. varied forms of amusement were provided for any • 0·~ ·~.);.. TIFFANY & CO. who did not indulge .. About ten o'elock light refreshments were served after which President Raymond cal'led the asse1nblage to order. Here follow.ed a long but interesting list of speeches. The central thought of them .aU was that the revival of athletic inter- ests at Union has come to stay, not only in foot- ball, but in baseball, track and all other activities. Every effort must be expended to obtain Bill Smith to coach the 1905 team, notwithstanding the rumor that he has decided to discontinue coaching. No one is more familiar with. the cir- cumstances and conditions at Union than he. The victories on its gridiron this year have given a deeper sense of satisfaction because there was not the least doubt that every player on the team was eligible to play and there was not the slightest possibility of the repetition of last spring's dis- grace. The personnel of the squad was also su- perior to any preceding one. Each player was not simply a good football player, but an all- round man. Perfect harmony pervaded the team which was free from all petty jealousies and fac- tions. The evening was ended by giving the college yells and singing the college songs. FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE. It has been reported through the newspapers that President Roosevelt has agreed to becom·e President of Harvard at the expiration of his term, March 4, 1909. * * * * The 13 8th anniversary of the foundation of Rutgers College has been celebrated. A portrait of the late Joseph P. Bradley of the United States Supreme Court, was presented by Charles Bradley and accepted by Dr. Austin Scott, president. * * * * Chicago university students have protested against the presenee of the co-eds in the library of the law department, claiming that their pres- ence there interferes with serious work. * * * * The students of the College of Fine Arts at Jewelers to College Men. * * * * Designs and estimates furnished for Frdternity Pins, Class Rings, Class Cups, Stationery, Ftc. * * * * No order can he accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy to bear the narne of the House. UNION SQUARE, NEW YORI< ·~respondence lnv.=it=e=d=.=== Syracuse are to form a unique \Fakir's Associa- tion,\ which will give one or two \freak\ exhi- bitions during the year. Purdue is to erect a memorial costing $100,000 to its undergraduates who were kiUed last year in a railroad wreck, while attending a football game. * * * * The theatre party is an annual, enthusiastic and well planned affair at McGill. * * * * Amherst has interfraternity tennis tourna- ments. * * * * The Cercle Francais at Harvard will present Regnard's play Les Folies Amonreuse this fall as its annual production. The \Cap and Eells\ of Williams will present \Capt. Racket,\ a comedy by Charles Townsend. * * * * President Eliot has decided that admission to athletic contests will be free to all Harvard stu- dents as soon as the Stadium is paid for, which, it is expected, will be within three· years.

THE CONCO'RDIENSIS. A college wHL probably be opened at Johnson City 1 Tennessee, next December for the benefit of such persons who were not abQe to attend col- lege in their youthfl!ll days. About two hundred gray-bearded freshmen from the city of Chicago are reported to have already matriculated to enter the opening class. ::j: * * ::j: Williams has beell .awarded a gold medal for its educational exhibit at the St. Louis exposition. * * * * Notable action has been take:a at Oxford in the case of Earl Mur.ray, who was last year awarded the Cecil Rhodes scholarship for the State of Kansas. Mr. Murray refused to become a mem- ber of the Church o·f England, and on these re- ligious grounds purely his admission was re- fused. :1: * * * One hundred and twenty-six: freshmen were initiated by the fourteen Greek letter societies at Dartmouth this year. * * * * The oldest college in the world is the Moham- medan College~ Cairo, which was a thousand years old when Oxford was founded. It has an enroll- ment of 11,000 students. ::j: * * * Colgate has ado:pted proper insignia to be awarded by the student body to the intercollegiate debaters. * * * * A great pajama :varade recen ty took place at California. The pajamas used in this annual af- fair are reserved especially and are handed down from year to year. They are white, or were once, and are decorated either with paints or with cut out football pictures. * * * * Pennsylvania, Columbia and Cornell have agreed to form a triangular debating league. The league will hold three debates annually. These debates will be held on the same evening, on the same question, each. university being represented by two teams. :>!: * * * All .students who took part in the Spanish- American war ha:ve been granted free tuition at the university of Iowa. ·The new six day-three hour system has been adopted at Minnesota. It was the idea of the fac- ulty that by means of this new system the work would be distributed over six days instead of five. The method is not meeting with approval among the student body, because it necessitates such ir- regular classes and hours. * * * * The senior class of Nebraska is making prepar- ations to present its annual play. * * * * The total expenditures of N. Y. U. for the past year were $305,704 by means of which 2,200 stu- dents were given instruction. * * * * Hamilton has arranged a debate with the Col- lege of New York City. * * * * A serious riot occurred at Vienna University re- cently when the German students attacked the Slavs and Italian students. The cause was the . refusal of the latter to sing \Die Wacht am Rhein.\ * * * * The imperial authorities at Pekin have cut off the appropriation in support of the Nan Yang College, patterned after Western educational in- stitutions, and the school closed. The college was founded ten years ago, and it was considered the foremost seat of learning in China. The Good and Bad Points -. <!I- COLLEGE FRATERNITIES Impartially Treated -in the- NEW YORK TRIBUNE Sunday, December 4 A. L. OWENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, N. Y. j.A. RICKARD & Co. Sporting Goods 253 State Street Schenectady

THE CONCORD.IENS!S. r7 Collegemen find a grateful degree of comfort and service in the Brighton. Flat Clasp Garter. Now worn by near= ly two million men. Made from one piece of pure silk webbing with nickel trimmings that cannot rnst. Price zsc. at 5tores or by mail. PIONEER SUSPENDER CO., \18 Market Street, Philadelphia. 1\Ialwrs of PioncFr ;.uspl'uderR. firthur J. CIJhite Successor to MacLean \3he College Photographer\' Liberal Discount to College lVIen. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. ) 492 Home Phone { 47m U. R. DR U Gs . L!r~~,e~!:~:ndies Anything . and Everything OPEN ALL NIGHT REYNOL . DS COR'NERSTATE STREET . . · f AND THE RAILROAD John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE .... MERCHANT TAILOR 35 Maid.en Lane Albany, N.Y. 259 STAT:E STREET Hawes Hats are the ideal college Men's Hats. In buyin_g them we had the m:en o£ Union College in. mind. We have shapes that wUl please yon college men. They are $3.00, with our usual coBeg·e discount. cA.}. 8JlJcG EE Successor to HERARDUS SMITH Dealer in COAL AND WOOD Tele.phone 321 140 South Centre St. Schenectady~ N. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S GREATEST STORE HEADQUAHTERS FOR Men's Furnishings of all l(inds Specicd Prices to Students COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 G Show your College Spirit by giving it your patronage. ® Orders Attended to Promptly. W* HUNT, ~os Silliman Hall ~obson a/fdee :BOOKM:EN SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA

AD VERTISElVIE\'NTS. Electric ·Lighting A,pparatus. Electric Railway A.ppa·ratus. Electric Power Apparat-us. E·lectric Transmission of Power. Sales of,fi.ces in all the large cities of the United States. General Electric C~o. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. BOWLS MADE. IN FRANCE Pi pes Rep a l red EYRES, .Socie·ty Florist. FLORAL EMBLEMS ARRANGED IN ARTISTIC STYLES. THOUSAN~DS OF ROSES, CARNATIONS AND VIOLETS ALWAYS ON HAND. l No .. Pearl St. Tel. 208. Albany, N.Y. - ----- ~----- ----------------------- OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9A. M.t04P.M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. - ----- ------- --------~---------- IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, .PORK, VEAL, LAMB, HAM:S, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty GRUPE THE FLORIST, -- t ~6STATESTREET Supplies Flowers for Balls, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York. Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N.Y. Brooks Works, Dunkirk, N.Y. Pittsburg Works, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. ,.,.,,... ........... •,\Hoo'/!•~~·· ,-,- ... ~ •O,>Uo~~· •\\• .- • -~ • n -._ .,,_,~~-l. Cooke vVorkR, Paterson, N.'J. . ! Rhode hlan_d WorkR, · Providence, R. l. · Dickson Works, Scranton; Pa. 1 MancheRter Worlu;;, .J Manchester, N.'H. I..~ocomotive & Machine Co. l Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE. 4 •

ADVERTISEMENTS. C£he Gazette is easl{J the foremost .dally in Schenectady. -PRINTERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904 Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telephone 425 General Office 420 State St. Schenecta.dyt N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six F orn1alities, THE 'VARSITY MAN WHO WEARS \STEEFEL\ QUALITY CLOTHES :HAS THE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN•T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRIED. STEEFEL BROT:HERS 78-80-82 State Street Albany, N. Y. James H. Barhyte Luca;s W. Devenpeck Barhyte & Devenpeck Wholesale & Retail Dealers Coal and Mason Supplies Telephones 242 & 24.2-2 Office l06 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y •. CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE New York City '([HE course covering four years .be.gins during the first week in October and continues until June. A preliminary training in natural science is of great advantage. AH the classes are divided in small sections for redta- tion, laboratory and clynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the required examinations. The successful completion of the first year in any College or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory stand- ard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annual announcement giving full particulars will be mailed on application. WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D~, DEAN, Cornell University Medical College, 27th. and 28th Streets and lst Avenue; N.Y. City Telephones H. R.. 745·A Home 792 103 North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union College-'92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, 'OO, '01, '02, '03. Cornell University-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. Colgate University-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03; Williams Oollege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02. Governor's Mansion-'94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. EDWIN POSSON'8 TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCurler, Jay Street BATHS~ ·Razors Honed The best equi:pped shop in -the city. All modern improvements. A new compressed air ou.tfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor toR. T. Moir Books, Pine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steam.shi p Agency lll State Street Schenectady, N. Y. WOOD 'BROTHERS MEN?S FURNISHERS 265 STATE STREET Fine Dress Shirt~ in Manhatte1n and Monarch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and Mallory Hats. Crawfory and Foremost t;hoes. Home Steam ~aundry.

I 46,7 State St. Schenectady Good Clothes We have a line of suits that for busi- ness, dress or full dress wear have no , equal. Suits that are made from the best materials, fashioned in the most approved styles, taHored in good taste and finished perfectly. Such high-grade manufact- · urers as Rogers, Peet & Co. and others contribute their best productions to our stock. We do not care ,how · particular you may be about your clothes, we have a suit that will satisfy you in every particular. Our Overcoats and Rain ·Coats are also very swelL - The Finishing- That is, the little things that go to make a man Touches well dressed-· hats, gloves, neckwear, collars, cuffs, shirts, etc. These goods express the newest and most approved styles and are perfect in every detail. We also have a very fine line of underwear, hosiery, handkerchiefs, sweaters, etc. , BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. Pearl Street, S·TULL BROS. Albany, N. Y. 46 7 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN HAB-ERDASHERY CUSTOM 1~AILORING The J904 College Men will wear •' TI-lE 3 ll~~ci.f .· FOUR-IN-I-lAND THE LARGE E'NGLISH SQ.UAR.E Gloves, Hosiery, I'Jight Shirts, Pajamas, Shirts, Collars and Cuffs, all strictly high--class goods Everything new. Sl1irts and Pajamas made to measure~ The bigness and fullness that characteriz~~d clothes last season are just as noticeable features of the fashions for Autumn and Winter. Coats will be 29t inches in length with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in length. Plain and fancy browns are the Ia test shades. The particular dresser comes to us, for we dress him in a partic- ular way.

+ + + + THE + + + + CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXVIII ~----~---~----------~----------------!~------~· DECEMBER 1 0, 1 904 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY !, ! THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIV:ERSITY ----- - -- •

I ~ f I l i f ! . : I I I I l \ I 2 A.D VER TISEMENTS. U . u . •t nton · ntverst .y. · . \ ANDREW V. V. RAYMOND, D. D., ll. D., PRESIDENT.· UNION COLLEGE, SOHEN.EOT.A.DY, N. Y . . I. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B. 2. Course Leading to the Degree of B.S. l. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of 8,. E. 6.. Electrical Course Lea.din.g to the Degree of B. E. This· differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in place of some of the . General Engineering studies. This course is offered in . co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company, un- der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4:, 5 or 5. For catalogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany .ZV::edical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita- tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Pratical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full information, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law School.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. · Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, W. R. DAVIDSON, Secretary Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany ~.1edical College Building. For catalogue ;,nd information address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N.Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. F. c,. KRUEGER & CO. The Up-to~date Grocery House FULL AND· COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES AND Pij.OVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their Season. 142 & J44 STATE STRF.ET. Dr. St. Elmo N. Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State and Olin ton Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BON BONS and CHOCOLATES Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon's The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, Schenectady, N. Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N.Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWNS and HOODS to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from tlie Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 237 State St. Schenectady, N. Y~

AD:VERTISEMENTS. 3 THE TENEYCK ..A.L:SANY., N- Y- Fos:Lt5.. ve~y F5..re-J?:roof. European Plan. Most attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITO~ and other places of interest. Restaurant a:nd Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music duriq_g evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. Jl. J. ROCKWELL ®. SON Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attach.ed Wm. H. Keeler, Prop_. Annex, 507 fa 509 Broadway ••. THE •·• EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Tlze Largest and Best Appoi12ted Hotel i1z the City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. DERBY 511 UN ION ST. Established 1845 The best place for \ CANDI:ES, TOBACCO Ice Creant, Cigarettes S 0 D A, ·C I ,0 A R S Three blocks from the campus Incorporated 1900 ·~ W. & L. E. GURLEYt TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers .in America of Field Instrutnents for ·Civil Engir1eers' and and Surveyors', also mak.ers of Physical and Scientific Instrutnents of all kinds and U. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing Instruments, Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T-squares, Ttdangles, Curves, Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, Rubber, Scientific Books, Anemorneters, Barorneters, Thermometers, Magnifiers, Etc. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by C. GOETZ, Tailor J Ce~t,ral Arcade Sch.enectady, N. Y. E. C. HARTLEY, Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full line of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UN,ION STREET For Ha.ts, Caps, Furs, Trunks., Bags. Suit Cases, Etc., go to M.MANN'S Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 2·27 STATE ST. YATES' BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with house. 29 Fro~t Street Schenectady, N. Y.

I : l ' I , I ! : I l ; ; \1 ; ! ' l ' I , ! : j I ; II : I ,· I I : . ' . ' I ' I I :I ' ' AD VEl?. 71SEME'NTS. Photographs LEVI ~OORE 15 North Pearl St.., Albany, N. Y. S:pecial R.ates to Students Appeintm.en.ts by Mail or Telephone HOPKINS· & . CO. ~' We make .our ocwn clothing. \\ 64 North Pearl St. COLLEGE TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS ALBANY, N. Y. Our fall and winter line of brown suitings and over coat- ings is now complete in the Custom Tailoring, as well as Ready-to-Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be excelled. Suits and Overcoats from $15.00 to $60.00 The Sc:henectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WAL'I,ON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Building 313 and 315 State Street ~LLEN'S c:BOOKSTORE 508 FULTON ST., TROY. N. Y. c:All Union College Text Books Second Hana and New, in stock Long Distance Telephone LIMMER & EVANS •. Florists .• Van ([urler Q)pcra £;ou5c LORRAINE BLOCK STATE STREET C. H. BENEDICT TELEPHONE No.335 Both Phones Manager -

THE CONCORDIEN.SI.S VOL. XXVIII. UNION COLLEGE, DEC. Io, I904. No. II ·COLBY PROFESSOR ON ALUMNI SPIRIT. The succe·'IS and the standing and the quality of a college depend upon its graduates. They can make it \Vrhat they choose. For m.:y p.art, I would rather teach for nothing in a college wh .. o.s·e gradu- ateR loved it and were loya:l to it than to teach for ever so large a salary in a college whose graduates ·were always apologizing \for it and n1a.king ex- cuses for it and were asharned of it. It is the atti- tude of the graduates of a oe·oliE--ge that puts the heart tnto, or takes the heart out of the men vViho are giving their lives to its• s.ervice.-Colby E.cho. POLITICS AT UNION. The above subject offers such an extensive fie1d for investigatior:. and thought that it would he folly to think of saying tbe laf:t word on the 1natter in the pre.sent arUcle, both becau.se of the limits of Bpac,e and becaw::;e of the lin1its of exact kno\vl- edge. It seems to thp present vvriter, how~ever, that the person who attached a great deal of importance to the \shoving along'' which fraternity 1nen receive frmn professor~ has gone far astray as regards facts, and is at the same tirne unjust in his esti- n1ation of Uni0n's professors.. Equally hasty and in- correct is the n1an who lays all the wickedness of politic~ :tt 'Cni.o11. to the charg'e of \frats.\ One of the worst dea.Js', of which the· writer has:. any know1edgo, -vvas carried out in a. most high- handed way by so-called neutrals·. But this is not mea11t as a geneTal defense of the \frats'' nor as a wholesale c.ondemnation of neutrals. Ii n1.erely sho1\rs that \frat\ is1 not a synonym for rottennes.s i'11 politics nor \neutral\ for purity in politics. Of course, the question of ·clean p·olitics is not peculiar to Union. The ~~rnc trouble ::tncl the s.a.me c2.uses of the evil ar<\ found in an places' whet'e men aspire for oi'Ure ancl prestige; and so, the man Wlho settle's f.or hin1se~f the principles ·which shall guide him ~n the politics of his colleg€, is at the sarne tilne also fixing upon principles ·which \Vill be binding upon hirn when he enters· the larg<?r poUtics ou tE>.id'E~ of college. No man can afford in colleg8 to stoop to practices. of \.Vhich he \v·ould be ashanv~d in the roli tics of his h01ne co:minunity; and no man in college should offer as an excuse for keeping out of the politics of h.is .college. that :r:rernieious excuRe which is bas-ed on the general or total dep·ravity of said politics. Tne salvatioil of Union's politics is the san1.e as the salvation of the politio::;s of city, state and nation, nam·ely, th·~ entrance of men \\Vho cannot be hnught, whether the bribe be the chairmanship. of a dance corn- mittee or a fat city job. No do1Jbt 1nany guiding prineiples mjght be given for conduct in college politics; but these two ought to have a place: First, respect for one's OvYn price- ~ess. charact<=r, and, secondly, loyalty to one's col- lege. And these two, whE·n p·roperly understood, do not co·nftict. Let us have at 01 d Union men \rho will scorn an office \Vhicl:. they do not deserYe u.nd cannot gain without resorth,.,g to unworthy practic'E's sneh as brihing -. .rotP.s by pr01n ised favors. Let us ha.ve, too. a large nu.n1.ber who \\~in tuke ~uch offered brihes as· insults to their characte1· and as presump- tive evidence that the man w·ho so offers is not worthy of thP ol'fkc. Let us have, finally, men who are so loyal to Old Union that they will do their level best to p·ut into the offices those who will best repre.sent the college· that we lew(' and bring honor to her na1ne. These principles are Huch as will U..J•lJlY to \fr-at\ man and \neutral'' alike; and they hit one no mort> than the other. It is to be hoped that all right- minded feUows,, ~·irrespective of l'art:y affiliaticms,'' 2.s the campaign orator would say, wHl stani1 loyally fo·r uprigh teousness in the politic.s (lf our college. ALU.l\'INUS, '03.

THE CONCORD!Ei\TSIS. NEW ·SCHOLARSHIP FOR UNION. Will Benefit Engineers. The Arn1ioHr Institute of T'ee.hnology has· offerwl the college one (ani!. possibly two) free srcholarship in their corresp~onrtence coursre, to be awarded to the nwst deserving l11,emher (or memb-ers) of the stud<':nt body. Prof. Lrandreth has charge of this Slcholarship, which w'ill lJe awarded in the near future. It ln·· eludes: (a.) Insrb~uction in the course Srelec1ted. (b) Free tuition in the sum•metr term of the Armour Tn.stitute of Technology_ (c) One set of ''Referenc,e Lribrary, M;odern Eingi- :1eedng Practice.\ (d) One Rret of ie~t papers, to 'be delivered a.s the stufl.ent progresses. (e) Pos'tage on all m,atteTSI sent to the student. (f) Ben.e.Jlt of 8c.hoo1's disoount on all technical boolis, publications, instrument~~ •. ~uppile·s, etc. The lis't of optional courses ts1: E:lectrica.l E:ngi- neering, Central Station Work, Ellectrlc Light:ng, EleC'tr c Railways, Telep.hone Prac:tic.e, Mechanical Eigine.ering, l\1echanica.l-Ellectric.al Eln,gineering, Sheet Mrtal Pattern Drafting, Shop Practice, Sta- tionary .Engtneering, JY1arine Engineering, LiOCDn1o- tive E'ngineering, Structural E 1 ngineering, Munici- pal E'ngineering, Railroad E'ngineering, Surveying, S.trnc.tura.l Drafting, Heating, Ventilat·ng and Pluinbing, Com:plete Architecture, Contractor's and Bui!C.er'R Cours0, Cotton Course, Woolen and Wor- sted Goorls. Course, Knit Goods Cour,se, Mecha11ical D'rawing, Architectural Drawing, including drawing outfit a11d drawing enc,yclopedia, Com1plete Me- c: hanical Courr·~·. Con1plete College Pre para tory Cnurs'2. PRESS CLUB REVIVAL. Begin$ With Large Membership. F'anne(l by invigorating breezes. from the who.le- some ~ollege spirit and rev~ving interesrts; the Press Clnb is on,e-ning its eyes and the rosy glow· of health is taklng the place of the deathly pallor of uncon- scinusneo;;R. The .first n1eeting took plac:e last Tu.esday after- noon in SHLlTiaYl Hall. Definite organization was delayed until the next rn.·eeting, inasmuch as Dr. Raymrond hart said that he ha.d a p;lan in mind to organ~ze a dub as an aid to the Press· C:Iuh. Consequently seve·ral men from various. parts., of the eountry assrc·mbled in Professor Hoffman's :romn yes1terday at 5 P:. m. t0: Hsten to ihe Presi- dent's plan, which \\Vas. in part asr .follows.: He called the men to his office to form an organization com1posed of college students1 who would agree lo send a letter frequently to their ho)me papers, tell- ing of aU happen5ngs in Union that would be of interes1t to sun-freRhin:en and alumni. It was. sug- gested that in places where news wou 1 ld not be eas.,ly accepted for publication, the city pape'rs antl The C'oncordiensis could be sent and in view of this fact Manager Hart offered to make a special rate for this purpose. Great enthustas1n :vvas arous,ed and Dr. Barnes was appointed Director of the organization. At the next regular tneeting o.f the Pres.s1 Club, act:on will be: tak.:m on the new c.lub and it w'ill be de- eided as to the work of each. At pres,ent the Press Cluh has. exercdsred censor- ship on nev .. :'S rnerely, but it is expected that in the ~uture the club W 1 ill do more toward advert!sing and spreading a better knowledge of Old Union abroad. In the pres,ent age, when there are so many new ·colleges and so mHny old o·ne's ~cla.mor­ ing for a. hea.rtng. Unio·n can ill afford to retire behind. the curtajn and s.till expect to keep her desks. all occ:up,i·ed. It is hard to expect to get men to Union by keep- ing still. Nor should the s.tudent get the idea that l~e·ca.use there -is a Press Club he ought not to exert hin11se.Jf. Tfbe object of the Press· ·Olub is not to take the entire w,ork of advertis-ing the c.oUege on its s.l:!.oulder.s, but to aid the srtuden t body in diss.emfnating news. There arc a great n1any ways to spread news, an1ong ihe best hPing that of writing news articles for prep. s.ehool journalf:1;. It m1ust be understood fr01n1 the bt'ginning that unless there iS: a comp.e- tent head to the Club rtnd one who is satisfied to be busy an the time, little good ·can be accom- . plished. That the Press C'lub can be made to hold a very ill rE tl c '] I

' : THE ·CONC:O'RDIENS!S. 7 influential pos,.tion in college affair$ is not d0'11)te'l HOW THE BIBLE ORIGINATEiD. :n1:d that it can easily crawl into .a snug burrow and rerna·n there i:s another incontE'B'table fact. Upon the st,l:ldent body dep<:'nds the result. A WIN:TER FANTASY. Oh, the fu:B, rich da,yst of blOSISO,m·ing June have com.e our way at last-· Vacation's near, exams are o'er and all our work ts past. The campus •ions its summ.er suit, O'ld Union's fah·e'st now- L1e-t's go paddling up the Mohawl:;: w':th the right girl in the bow. When the glistening :ray.s of dying sun cast dia- monds in the stream, And afar down in the waters m.ingling sunset c.olors glcain- And the fresh ·cool evening breezes s.eem. to thr'll you, who knows how- Then go p3ddllng up the Mohawk with the right girl in the how. So'Jn the twilight shades have fallen and the sun has ,gone to rest, With a silence, deep and tender a.s the silence of the bles:t- Now the hirjl ;ngs. cease their ves,pers,, and the tree- toads m·urmur low, While we're paddling up the Moha,wk with the right girl in the bow. See the sum1nm· Inoonlight s.him,lncrs on the ripples as they dancE>, Casting shado\i\Ts wieru and ghostly on the trees a.<:> we advance- ITec..r the m:urmur of the \vaterlet.s1 a,s they part be- fore our pro·w, As 'YYe're paddlln~ up the Mohawk with the right girl in the bow. As we tlo:tt down toward the bo:1t house; ·mids:t the stra:ns of sweet guitar There's a pPace that seems to fill t.he world and reac·h from star to star-1 And when college days have long gone by we'll .st'l1 remember how We \\Yent paddling up· the Mohawk w'ith S!Oill1e·bo:ty in the bow. By '06. Dr. Hoff·man at Vespers. Dr. Hoffman based the third of his series of talk~ Oil \'T'he B1ble, \iVhat It i.s.-·VVha t It i.s Not,\ on the follovting que~tions submitted by one nf th~ students \How D-id the Biblt- Originate and By W'ha.t Right Did a Rolly of l\fen Throw Aside a Portion of the Or:ginal Books Known as the Word of God?\ Tn beginning Dr. JJoffman saifl that in answer- ing thesE\ questions he would sim:ply f:ltate \\Yhat js generally knG\.Yn by s·tudenlts of the Bible. Dr. II0ffman f'ald: \In gf.:'neral the Old Testament is a hi.sttory of the experiences and thoughts of the Je·v·ish people from about 1500 B. C., up to the time of Nehem;lah a.r}d E·zra, 4.00 B. C. During this tin1e it grew and was added to as history proceeded. \\Ve do not 1~.now what it originally c:onsisted of, tor it is evident that in Nehemiah's tim.e it was· re\.''lS'ed and -ed \'ted to a large extent. Of this there are man:,r provfS·. MosC's could not have WT'ittf!n the Pentetuch as it stands· at present, for it con- tains accounts of his death and burial, and de- S1Cribe8 the Promised I:....~and w·h-ich, ac.eording to 3-od' s prom.:i.se, lV1os-es. was never to .see. Then by reading carefully and separating the verse·s which co11tain the word God from thos·e tha.t refer to' God as the Ltord, it w'ill be found that there are· two f'Ustinc't &..cc.ounts of the flood embodied in the ont~ we have in <1-Pnesis. The History of Nat~ons. T'he Book of the \\IVan; of Jehovah and other book.s re- ferred to in onr 0111 Testa1TIC'nt are n1is:s.Ing. r.f'h2 old Hebrew Bible, frmn which ours in translated, began as i::: the c:ust01n of l{ebrew books, at the - ;a.st pa.ge and read forward. T'he books were not 11amed as we have then1, but w·ere designated by the first fevv words w'ith which they began. They \\Vere diVided into three divis.ions, The Law. The Pro,pbets and The Psalms. T'he' translators of our B.ible arranged the books to suit themselves and also left out several of the stories contained in the reestan1ent used in Chr:st's time. \1'he New Testam·ent is a h:istory of Jesus ancl His followers, and like the Old Testam.ent, is also a growth. The first book written was I. T'hessa- lonian~·. a lett(r written by Paul to the people of

j 'i I ;i 8 THE CONCORDIENSJS. Thessuly- to encourage them to wait for the comiug of Christ, whose coming they thought \vould he immediate. Mos.t of the other books were written for sin'lilar purposes, and the vvhole was gathered together and edited some tirne after the Apost1es.\ In answering the seeond question subm.itted, Dr. Hoffn1aP. said that in making up our Bible the editor8 used their best judgr.aent as to what \Vas rnof.:t needed by man to show him his relations to God and nature, and we have the result. Y. M. C. A. Hunt, '05, led the T 1 uesday night 1neeting' thls week. T'he subject was \\\Vhy Not .Study on Sun- day?\ ':rhe meeting ti.1ne of the Mission Study Clas.s Is ±:30 Sundays. Th0 clas•s met last Sunday and com- rnenc:ed studying the life of David L1ivingstone. The lives to he taken up next are George Leslie MaclG 1 Y of F'orwosa.; Isabella Thobun1, of India; Cyrus Hu.mlln, of Turkey, and Joseph Hardy Ne<=S·in'la. of Japan. 'The Decernher 1neeting of the Cabinet was held Wed~!e~day afternoon. The la~t Tuescl.n.y night 1neeting of the tenn will be helci nexi \veek, December 13. ·The .subject of the rneeting ·wiE be \Standn.rds• of Christ Applied to College Elthir~.\ The lE!ader will be Reed, '06. .Prof. Hoffman's talks on the Bible are growing in in t<::rest. The attendance has been by far the largest this year. Next S.unday Prof. Hoffman Wiill answer n1any of the questions. that were handec] in last week. * * * * Y. M. C. A. IN OTHER COLLEGES 'rhe lVlission Study Class· at Rutgers: w·ill use '·Protestant Missions in South Ame·rica\ as a basis for their \vork this• year. A joint Bible and Miss.ion study institute was ~1eld at Lafayette College Noven1:ber 12-13. The following i ;.J stitu tions were represented: L~e·h igh, East Strow:'lsburg State Normal School, Moravian Col1ege, and Perkiomen Seminary. 'I'he A:rnhers.t Association has adopted the plan of sending deputations of the n1ore prmninent un- '1ergrad uu tes to preparatory s•chools, c)J.Hr 1 ches and Christian A.ssociaUons in citie1s within a rea- sana hle distance. '1'hese students hold them;selv<~s~ in readines;::: to go at any time and speak on any pro10er subject, rc+igious or athletic, provided their expense.s ::1.cP. paid. The students thus sent out cannot ll::'l'J,_; but e-xert a good in:ftuence for the col- lege. Over 1!)0 men have been enrolled in the A.ssocia- tion Bible classes at the University ·Of vVIsconsiH. By a car-efully planned and executed canvass the UniY~'rs•ity of North Carolina As.soeiation has increased it~ rrJif,siort study enrollment this ye::tr :?ro11n 20 to 120. The Corr~e11 Association enrolled 125 Freshn1en in Hibie clas.sN.:; before they entE>red College. This was accompli~bed by ·writing a pE.rsonal letter 1.0 every pro~pective E-!tudent. E.ighty-t\YO n1cn out of 165 have been enrolle'-1 in Bible dasscB at Millsafs College, Jackson. lVIiss. J.....a,si. year tbe enr0lllnr:nt was 50. The VirginhL Polytechnic Institute at Blacks- burg, Va., has. nnrolled over 100 m·en in B:ble classes. Thc~y expect to rclisf' this number to 300. Colg::ttP and HamUton are to hold a Bible insti·- tute Janriary 6-7, at the latter College. CHESS CLUB MEETS~ 'l'he annual fall Plf'ction of the Union Univ·ersity Chess Club wa.s held at Sillirnan Hall, November 25th, 190-~. The follo·wing officers were elected for the coming year: President-~George M. Elmendorf. Vic:e-President, 3-eorge W. Hitt. Treasurer-Herrick M,cClenthon. Secretary-Ja 1Ylt'S H. Richard.s. E 1 xer:utive Committee-. Losee, E:Jm,endorf, Moon. An inter-collegiate n1eet was discussed, and the following tournament was arranged therefore: Elrnendorf, G. 1\i., v-s. F:Jliott. I-Iouston vs·. Ric~hards. Losee vs. Davis. McClenthon vs. l\lloon. Hitt VH. Dann. Elnwn dorf, C. E:., vs. Meeker. .Bell, H. W., vs. \Veyraucb.

THE CONCORD!ElvS!S. =================================== 9 --· ===============----- GARNET NOTES. The G~o...rnet Boa.rd this year nave so f;-1r het·'i1 verY sHee.e-ssful in their endeavors to g'Pt tlw b(JO ~\: out at ar.t early ~late, and at present the wor1--;- if!• well uncJf•r ws:v. rnv~ fi.rst half of th(\ hnok is nezu1y 1 ·eac1y for tlle puhiisher (U1d will 11e il~ thei!~ hands DeC'ember 14th. ~11 mat('rial which is h1c·hjrled ill the s.e-::tion .shm.1lcl. be in the hands of the Bo::trd bY the 13th at the latest. The management h8.S announced that all groups which are to be in this section. ·will unc1e1· no considerat~on be· inc:;erted unless the insert assNl::inlent is paid to the m.an- ager by the 12th. In Drder to have a sufflcie·nt Ilumber of copie.s, Manager Cl1aprnan has. iss:ueu subscri 11tion blanks ·which should be filled out anLl handed to the 1nana.ger before the 13th. bY all who de:s,ire eo pie;:;, as the book will be guara..n. teed only tc thns~e handing in such blanks. blan.ks· rnay be obt.a.ined from any men1her of the Board. The Board wishes to urge the students to hand in pictures of int0:cest around the can1pus, literary a.rticleB and cl.ravvings for the second half of the book. These should be in not later than Ja.nuary 2nd. The Garnet thiE year will con t.ain the his tor· es of the Senior Phannacy. vV. W. Norton ha:S 'b~en appo~nted frmn Delta ehi and. George Donnan ·Will tal~.e Sehenck's pla~.'e on the Board. THE WEST·~RN CLUB. About a \veek ae;o all fellows, in college that c·mne irorn. a vVe·stern preparatory Hchool or have h0111C'S in the West. met 1n Sillhnan Hall and formed themselves into a club to be known as the Vveste1·n Club t'f Union Golleg;e. 1nen1bers: Charles N. The following are thf' vValdron, '06, Detroit; E:rnes>t Osborne, '07, Chicago; Earl Bradbeer. '07, Detroit; vVillian1 B. Colburn, '08, Detro:t; William II. Cat··hart, '08, Chic:1.go; H .. Sherley B3.rtholnmew, '08, Indianapolis. and Lewis C. Benedict, '08, Chi- c.ago. Charles N. \Va1dron was elected president and ~E'rne~t Csborne secr0tary. logue;:.;, and any it e11l.fi of interest connected \-vith the .college-, anc1 hy personal influence while ·::tt hom·e. At the ftrs·t meeting of the club the men1be:rs yo ted to n1PE't regularly for a s:ocial tiine and thus to report infonnally to eac.h other ·what they \vere doi!1g. '1'l1e fir::t 1110eting of this kind was• helcl last Tue:!day eYening at the Alpha Delta Phi hou.st'. A gre,lt deal of interest \vas displayed and ways and ntcans were ell seussed to ::tssure the success• of the club. If this intere<st is continued it will no doubt haVP its effect and Pnion College will becJme n1on. of a reality in the West and the West a strouger reality in college. PHARMACY. A sta tr- board quiz class has been formed whL:h m.eets P1·ofess~:n· Rutman at the PhannRceutical lab')ratory on Wednesday rnornings. ~'lid-winter exams. begin nn Monday, Dec. 12th, with Pharrnaceutical laboratory work. On \iV'c·dnesflay la~t the cla~.s of '05 sat for a group picture at Moore's studio. This· is fo~r in- sertion in the Garnet. It is gratifying to note the way the two dnsses have taken up the Garnet .matter. When H was br0ught before them the vote for rerre~ent2.t'on was unanimous, and the faculty vvE:rE no lt:ss enthn.s:iac;tic. Although o\ving to someone's· blnnclP.r, the time in which to collect 1nai 11:~1· was lilnited, eve1·ything seenus well under wav and \Vill doubtles.3 be in on time. A m.nnoer of the class haYe sug-gested that the '05 pin comP1 it t~e nPeds a more or less gentle re- lninde~'. They will certainly be obliged to act quickly if the piil.S m·e forthcmning before the holi-· days. It is staLPd on ~;xcelle,nt authority that S:hoor, '05, is the bciug \Yho ins•pired the popular ~ong, \The l\'Ian RPllind,\ and that. notwithstanding the nanw \\'l~ich apvc:us on the n1usic, it wa~ written hY a r-ertain popular 1nemher of our faculty, as- ~istE::l1 by a city photographer. HOT AIR ON THE RISE. The plnpo.::;es of the club are to arouse :nterest in Union Colll:ge in the \Ve.st ancl to induce fellows to corne here to college, bY sending papers, catu,., A good talker gives pleasure to others and to hirnself. To be able to talk well wil bring dollars to your pocket-and friends to your home. -Seminary· Opinator.

d! !' 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The Concordiensis. .tA Literary and ;}(ews Weekly 'Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS. E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. C. HART, 'o5, F. M. MILLER, 'o6, E. G. SIMONS, 'o5, R. J_ NOWELL, 'o5, M. T. RAYMOND, 'o5, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o4, R. B. SMITH, Editor-·in-Chief Business Manager Asst. Business Manager · Literary Editor Athletic Ed it or News Editor Alutnni Editor Law Department - Pharmacy Department ASSOCIATE EDITORS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, W. KING. 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. REPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, M. H. ELLIOTT, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, 'o7, L. S. PARSONS,'o7, H. E~ CANTWELL, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, 'o7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, W. S. SPEIR, 'o7. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football { F. C. Patton, Captain; L. L. Odell, Manager. Baseball {Paul Hagar, Captain; A. J. Thompson, Manager. rrack { M T. Raymond, Captain; W. T. Hunt, Manager. Glee Club {B. W. Reed, Leader; J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager. lnstrumeutal Club 5 B. W · Reed. Leader; f J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager Concordiensis {E. J · Ellenwood, Editor; . L. C. Hart, Manager. Garnet J S. J. Raymond, Editor; (A. G. Chapmani Manager. y M c A 5 Malcolm McGregor, President; • · · • f W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $2.oo Per Year, in Advance Io Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y~ Pu-blication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. S.ELF s:UPPORT. One of our professors has put himself on record by saying that he has no sympathy whatever for the man who has to support himself through co-llege. A literal translation of this statement would, in our judgment, be too severe both as to the professor's real meaning and on any student who belongs to the work- his-way-through class. Such a student de- serves sympathy in big bunches, for he has to start the race at the scratch, after others of his fellows have already struck their stride. There lies under the professor's statement the inference that an education is only for those of means. American democracy and American institutions trample on this relic of serfdotn. It's too dangerous, mediaeval and absurd. Moreover everybody realizes this so much that the subject has becon1e too trite for discussion. AccorditJg to statistics collected by Pro- fessor Lewis of the U. of Maine, nearly fifty per cent of the entire student body of the United States is 1nade up of students who pay their own way. And we think we're right in saying that our country stands rather high in the educational world. \fhe old time notion, however, that the boy, who has to earn his bread with his hands while filling his head with a college education, can get the most of all that his college offers, has become sere and stale. Fifty college presidents report that out- side work is a hindrance to college studies; only three out of fifty-nine believe that it is not detrimental. The student who comes to college to sup- port himself will soon face the stern fact, presented to hi1n in various ways, that he has not an equal chance with hin1 who has nothing to do but eat, sleep and study. \V e believe that such a student would appreciate without injury to himself a little syn1pathy now and then.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. II 'DO SOM,E'TH il NG.. A motion ought to be proposed at the next college meeting to the effect that, if anyone n1entions hereafter with serious de- tneanor and intent the ·subject of a Union basketball team loud enough for another student to hear it, the one expressing his vision in audible· tones shall be ostracized from aH association with the student body. Let him be cast out. as a disturber of the peace, as qne seeking to arouse energy and Union enthusiasm. Such a motion as this, if passed, would do a lot of good in some ways. It would suppress these bubbles of hope which ef- fervesce here and there in spite of the gen- eral cahnness and placidity around the~n. Everything would be quiet and restful. The passing of such a 1notion would avoid a big quantity of work. But · n1ore than this, every student would k~ow just how ~the college stands in athletics this winter. He would feel with a certainty that Union knew that she was one of the chosen few of the many col- leges in the country, n1any stnaller than herself, who did not care to be represented by a basketball team. He would know that she wished~ it to be so. But something, anyhow, ought to be done to either quiet or encottrage these mut- terings about basketball. --·- REDUCE IT TO PRACTICE. Our worthy alumni gives us enough the- ories and working 1naterial with what is already in the con11non storehouse to dispel all fear of n1aking a will-o' -the-wisp chase out of a crusade against politics at Union. His exhortations ought to stir the blood when the fight becomes general. In 'The Concordiensis for Nov. 12th, a n1an_ was called for who would presutne to introduce some tnethod. Nobody listened. So the year of 1904 protnises to get off the earth with Union's old systen1 of elections still in force. The Xtnas va·cation ought to provide tin1e for thought if its pleasures woufd not be spoiled by thinking over such a subject. Perhaps son.1ebody will come back in Jan., saturated with ideas of peace on earth, good will to 1nen but, at the same tin1e, deter- n1ined and effective in ridding the college of its \spoils\ and \deals.'' -- THE LAWYERS' STANDPOINT. However much the Albany Law Depart- tnent lacks university spirit, it must be con- gratulated on the spirit which it manifests in fonning and supporting an athletic team of its own. It ought to help the department wonderfully and we can't help but envy the good fortune of our brethren. The ·Concordiensis was hardly disap- pointed when it received the reply to its letter regarding a university basketball team. One can hardly expect a well con- ducted, well balanced organization to ally itself with something which exists only in the fa1;1ciful shapes of curling tobacco sn1oke. And our law school is too unfatniliar with the scope, purpose and possibilities of our university to lead it to share any of its own goodies with its h. urtgry colleagues. \Albany won't join.\ But what is there for it to join with? \You buy the stan1ps and we'll do the rest\ is the ·motto of sotne correspondence schools. But where is one that can teach a man the benefi. ts derived fron1 watching a professor tnake in a little book a diminu- tive olongated circle which is known to sotne as zero, to others as naught, to others as \flunk\ and to still others as \stuck?\ It was not cleen1ecl feasible to attetnpt to present a cotnplete account of Union's foot- ball season to our readers without a finan- cial report. As that could not be obtained in tin1e for this week's issue, the review of the season had to be postponed ·a week.

. I l i i I i , I I l r : I I I I ' l I I 1 t ' ~ f i I , I ' ! : j : I 1 I I I 1 I . I : { , -~ . l i ! I l I I I ~ I l' . ! t·! ; ' I ·l I I '·I :J· ___ _ THE COAlCORD1EN.S1;_'>~. ALUMNI. '52.-Rev. Natha11iel G. Spalding died at the Albany hospital Nov. 17, 1904, after an iU- 11ess of ten days. county in 1825. Mr. Spalding was born in Essex He was pastor of what is now ~i. Luke's M. E. church of Albany, and also past~>r of J\1ethodist churches in Saratoga and Glovere;- vi.lle. At the close of the war he was chaplain .€)f a regin1ent, but never sa \Y active service. He took a pron1inent part in. public affairs and alway:--.s worked in the interests of the people. He organ-- ized the New York State Farmers' Congress a.nd was for several years treasurer of the National Farn\lers' Congress. He was a leading advocate e:f good roads in this State and was appointed in 18 9:3 a con1missioner by Governor Flower. He became president of the Fort Plain Collegiate institutioi::~. in 1864 and later of the Amenia seminary at An\lenia N. Y. Shortly after the war he purchased. the Van San~ford estate at Schodack Landing, where he lived the greater part of the time. He was a descendant of the old Spalding family of Revolutionary fame and was a first cousin of Sec- retary Shaw of President Roosevelt's cabinet. He is survived by his wife, Harriet Dot-r:: Spalding, a daughter and two sons, Dr. Warren Spalding of Rew York, and N. B. Spalding of Albany. Mr .. Spalding was a Philomathean and a member· of Phi Beta Kappa and the Fraternal Society. * * * * '59.-John H. Carter is a. farmer 2.t Lexington, Kentucky. * :i: * * bany He r<:f.ld th:s pa]lC\l' before the Medical So- ciety of AH-.~ny Connty, Nov. 16, 19,04. :!: * * * '93.-Charles Willard Field died at his home at Clyde,, N. Y., Nov. 13, 1904, of uremia. He was born at Clyde, June 22, 1872, and was prepared for college at Clyde High School. Mr. Field studied law in the office of the late .Judge Charles T. Saxton and had practiced law in Clyde till his death. He held the office o:E potice justice and was president of the Electric Light Company of Clyde. In politics he was a Democrat. He is survived by his wife, Jane Moriarity Field. He was a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. * * * * }9·:1.--J. Dc:m_r,:ster nrnwnell is in thP fi.re insm·- ance husine-~s rr.t J::tn~sville-, vV.is. * * * * '95.-A. E. Barnes, principal of the Unadilla High School, was elected president of the Tri- County Conference of Principals of Delaware, Chenango, and Otsego Counties, which met at Sidney, Nov. 4-5.-Howard Pemberton, Jr., of AI- ' bany, has been appointed claim agent of the Sche- nectady Railway Company. * * * * '96.-Through oversight the name of Norman E. Webster, Jr., secretary of the Washington, D. C. Alu1nni Association, was not placed with the alumni of Washington, published in the Concord- iensis of Nov. 12, 1904. * * * * '97.-James Wingate of Princetown was elected second vice president of the State Association of '6!1.--Tlle Pafraets nook Company Of Troy has School Commissioners at its annual meeting at recently is~u,..,,J a reprint •>f F''rederic R. ~1\'larvin's, Syracuse, Nov. 22. ''Plo\vcr of 8ong for l\1c.tny Lands.\ * * * * '70.--The New York 'Tim:es, Snturday R~vjew of Books, ha.c; a Y'E'Vif'W }Jy John v\r. Chadwick. of Prnf. Jolm F'. GeJJlJng'f', \Kohei et.h.\ * * * * '79.-William W. Childs has changed his ad- dress from 2018 G St., N. W., to 1733 G St., N. W., Washington, D. C. * * * * '8·1.-'rhc: -\ llJafly !\-T('clical .An nalA f(Jl' nee., 1904, c·ont.ains a paper nn thf~ \Yledic·ai .AHy,c·ei of Acu1e Appendil:iti~,\ hy Dr . .Andre;;v l\'facfaTlanE\ of Al- * * * * '!)9.-·f1ornfdins \V. Lockwood is tr:acher of Rcien.1'·! in the N'.=wlmrgh, N. Y .. Acar1emy. * * * * '99.-Geo:rge Earnest Sage died at a hospital in Buffalo, Oct. 19, 1904, of typhoid fever. Mr. Sage was born in New Berlin twenty-seven years ag-o and during boyhood lived at Oneonta. He at- t<::mded the public schools of Oneonta and, later, went to Union College at Schenectady, where he r€mained a year. From that institution he went to a school in Milwaukee, Wis., and, after leaving there, accepted a position with the engineering

THE CO.'VCORDIEIVS!S. 11 -----· ------ --------- corps. o~ the Chicago Construction CompallY· His the 2d Battalion of Engineers at Washington duti~s with that e<Jrnpany took him to Harriman, Barracks. Tenn., where he remained several years. In * * * * 'O 1.--EYel F-tt. T. Grout ha~ bN'n selt:r·tf· !\1 a.<:\' tlv= November, 1900, lre n1arried Miss Geneva Stack- land, of Prarie d u Chien, Wis., and returned to Oneonta to reside. He was for a time associated with Frank L Pruyn, under the firm name of F. I. Pruyn & Cm.npany., in the coal business, and sold out to the Oneonta Coal Company. Later, in partnership with Allen Rockwell, he had exten- sive lum her interests in this town, and last July left this business to associate himself with Irving L. Pruyn in the 1nilk business in Buffalo. He was treasurer of the :Buffalo Milk Company, of \Vhich Mr. Pruyn was president, but illness prevented his ever taking an active part in the business, which promised to be most successful. . He ·was a. director of the First National Bank of Oneonta. and was possessed. of exceptional business qualifi- cations and suffi.eient capital to insure him bril- liant success in the future. His father died when he was about se-veR years of age and his rnother, a sister o-f Allen Scramling of this place, and Mrs. Amanda Rockwell of Rockwell's Mills, died about two years ago. He has a half-brother, Eugene Sage, living at Xe-w Be1~lin, and a half-sister, Mrs. Dr. Brooks, of Milwaukee Wis. Mr. Sage was a member of the Chi Psi fraternity. * * * * '00.-E. G. Brccl\1 nell i ~ st 1.H1/ug nwrl ir 1n e in th~ Oollege of Phys~ ci :=u: ~ :.1 :~c1 s.urgenns, ~ew Yo:·:k City. * * * * '01.-G. L. Shelley is Professor of Greek and Latin in Mercersburg Academy, Pa.-lst Lieut. I-Iarold C. Fiske has been assigned to duty with '02.-John D. Guthrie is taking a ()nc-year course in the Yale Forestry SchooL-Herbert L. Fuller has passed the State Bar examination. * * * * '03.-John A. Bolles is studying la\V at the Columbia Law School. His address is 2(}6 West 10:6th St., ::\ew York City.-Guy B. Griswold is with the American Locomotive Company at Pitts- burg, Pa. His address is 55 Jackson St., Bellevue, Pa. * * * * '()4.-Archibald H. Rutledge is teaching English in, the Mercersburg Academy, Pa. SHAKESPEARE CLUB. 'J.'h<:: Sha~~P<=lpeal·e Cluh held an organiz-ation. ses- ::tion on l\.Ionday eyen;ng last. Dr. H3.le pre~.idell, ancl l\1iller, ·Of\, acted as ~ecretary. It '\liS decided t.o nre'3t on :01011day night at 7 o'clock. The 1neel ~ng decidPcl tc·, have a r;n.Jg:rarn com- 1nittee and the c~uir ap1-~o:nted Elrne-:1dorf, ·c;-·~. chainnar1; Losee, '05, ancl Mille·l'. '06. After .~mts·idf'ral-Jle disn.1ssion it ·was yoted to ex.- d ude F\rc~hn1en from members-hip, After the routine bnsh~e<:~s D-r. Hale de1ivn·ed a very intr·l'esting addrt'SS whkh serYed a.s an ap- propri:'lte introduction to the work about to be taken up. '~Fearey?s Nabob is a fine shoe, ell better one I rzever sa1;J:J for $3.50 ~~ }os. Fearey B Son, cll.lba.ny~

I i ! ,I .·1 t ' 't· f ; :, 'I' I i:; · . ,,. i:!' . ,· I . ,,i :,.! .. , ' = THE ·CONCORD!EN.SI.S. COLLEGE MEETING. ::. l\feetin.g caUed to order by President L,os:ee. lVIr. Chapmnn SPPctRs on Garnet. Mr. Stevens speaks on Mus.ical Clu.t>s. l\1'r. Elrnendorf annouRces1 the first m,eet:in.g o·f ,the Chess Club. Mr. R·eed an·- nounces• regular 1neeting of the J·lee C\luh. M'r. Arms reports ih.at the skating rink w'ill he tloojed during the wef,k. ~ ..... ·~· i , TIFF ANY & CO. . . =: -- COLLEGE BRIEFS. At the Philo!Tiathean meeling Tue.sda y n · gh.t, Raym.onn and M.cC'lellan supporting the nE>gati\re, defeate·d E1lmei.1dorf and Sylvester for th~ affinna- live on 1-ht.· q t:lest,ion, Resolved. r:rhat rt-·cipro2Ity b~etween the LT. S. and Canada. '~rould be advant- ageouc::: to both ptntic~s. l\1cGuirk acted as judge. * * * * A num1lJer of th8 faculty and also the quartette ~!ttended th<\ a1um.ni di·nner at New Yorh: Thurs- day nighL An a rcoun t will be given later. * * * * Dr. Raymond has been elected to fill the pol'ac.e of Chancellor D·ay cf Syra.cuse on the award conl-· rnittee of the Rhotd8s ~cholarships in New York state. * * :!: * Water was :rut ()J1 the ground broken for thP. skating rink for the first time Thursday afternoon. * * * * A large crowd of fellows attended the ~yracuse­ C'o. ID haskeiball game at the Arm1ory Friday night. * * * * Don't forget the Junior Hop tonight. ALBANY WON'T JOIN. Editor of Concordien.sis, 8chenec:tad y, N. Y. Dear Sir:- Tow· favor of the third addressed to Mr. C. H. Chappelle has been handed to me for inve.stiga.t'on. Jewelers to Coilege Men. * * * * D:esigns and estimates furnished £or Frdternity Pins, Class Rinos b ' Class Cups, Stationery, Ftc. * * * * No order can be accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent -with the best workn1anshi p and a quality worthy to bear the name of the House . UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK ==============~ this season, as \the ColtegP. s~chedules are all com- pleted. Secondly, the L:1w Departm·e·nt a! ready ha.s .:t fast tearn w.ith a full schedule. The s;tudent bojy of the School has S·uibs1oribed most Ii'beraUy for the suppo·rt o~ thjs1 team,, s;o we think the a.ban- do·nm.ent of our ~·chedule would be, a great inju:stice, both to the st'.lr1ents. a.nd to the players who bave s;pent much_ time already in prac:t'cing for the team. Perhaps next year something could he done in that 11 ne. In the event of the for-m3.tio;:l o·f a COL,L,EIG:m· ie::tm wish you 'vould have the Manager send m·e a list of his hn1n1e dates. Yours, etc., SCH I. TYLER K. SWE 1 E'TIN 3. OR FLUNK. If logical conceptions come from physical reac- tion, If appercepUon goes before some terrible trans- action; If the psychic constant fails at last to make on€ ride a bike, Replying, \v-ould say in regard to any plan th.ere i~ or might be on foot for the fonno.tion of a Uni- vers.ity basketball tf~am the same would no't IR.eet with our approvaL In the first P·lace, gam.es. could not be s1ecured with any Colleges or Univers•~ties, How many stars will students see before they pass their psyc ? -The Normal Magazine.

THE ·CONCORDIENSJS .. I5 PSI U DANCE .. T'he autumn reception and dan.c.e of the 'T 1 heta Clhapter of P.3i Upsilon. was: held Friday evening, Decelnber 2nd, at the Chapter Hous:e, and proved . to be a m•ost enjoyable event. The hous:e was ta.ste:fully decorated 'by Limm;e.r and Elvans, a.nd Parsons and Rubens furnished the mus1i.ci. T 1 hose present were: Dr. and Mr.s•. Willia,ms:,. M:r. and Mrs•. C. B. Pond, 1\l[i'S·. G. -w;, ~e'athers,tonha1igl1, Mn:. Van Guys.Jing Furman, and Mrs . .D:eFo·rest Yates. of Schenectady; lVI/r. and Mrs .. F. W. C'arn- eron, of Albany; Mrs. T. •H. H.eard, of Ki:ngSiton; Mliss·es Eihresn1a.nn and L.a Roche, of Binghamton; Mliss All~n. of GloversYillE.•; M is·ses BrJ71Cie, Sp•2ir, Gray, Ronan and Van Etten, of Albany; the Mi.s;ses~ Pearson, of Hudson; M·iss Hild.reli:h, of Herkimer: M:iss Medbury, of Ballston S.pa; lVIiisses Bates, Brown, Metlbury, Stebhi.nS', Durant, Weed, Hodg- son, We:l1s, T'hom.son, M'. Kd.ng, E. King, W. K.ing, L .. P:eebl:::s•, J. Peebles, Vedder, Webb, Rider, No- WieH, IIart, Wes•t, Patton, M. Raymond, S. Ray- mond, S.tevens, Haggart, lmr•ie, Drw!lgh t, Brooks, Stoney, Cook, Wadsrworth, Waldron, Hus'ton and the nJ:einber8 of the active chapter. The, corner stones for four new buildings, Liv- ingston Hall,. Hartley Hall, :School of Mines and St. Paul's Chapel were laid at Columbia Univer- sity recently in connection wd:th the celebration of the 15 Oth anniversary of the founding, of Kings CoUege, and the Physical Training building for Teachers' College was dedicated. SO 'SAYS SHAKESPEARE. When one hundred and fifty .college men line Feathersionhaugh, :F;. Yates, M .. Yates, Peek, Os- up the east side of the gridiron and watch their trom, M. Krieg~m'lan, J. vVright, F. Wright, De- team wipe the earth with another and not give Forest. s:teers, T'homson, 3-ates., Ktitts., Hawlf~Y. the·m a single yell of ppreciation there is some- Stevens., and Calhoun, o·f Sc!henectady; Prof. thing \rotten in Denmark.\ Opdyke, the Mes:srs. Alllen, Parker, White, Burt'ss, - .. -Madisonensis. The Scarlet and Garnet· A FITTING CHRISTMAS PRESENT FOR A U·NION MAN TO GIVE IS A VOLUME OF ''The Scarlet and Garnet'' A collection of the best college poems of Rutgers and Union. Price One Dollar, Postpaid. MAIL ORD·ERS filled by CHARLES R. BLUNT, 4 2 Comstock Street, New Brunswick, N. J. N. B.-'' The Scarlet and Garnet\ was published three years ago by A. H. Hinman, Union 'o2, and myself, a Rutgers man. There were soo volumes in the edition and Mr. Hinman and I each took 250 volumes to dispose of at our respective colleges. All of the 250 that went to Schenectady were sold~ but of the number that came to New Brunswick only 170 have so far been disposed of. I am making an effort to sell the remaining 8o volumes of the edition before Christmas, :so this will probably be the last opportunity .offered to Union men to obtain a volume. Y,ours truly, CHARLES R. BLUNT.

' ; I; 1 ! '' 1: ,, I ,, : .' ' j ~ ,, I6 THE CONCORDIENSIS'. ---- ~------- - - - - ·- ---- -- -- -----------~-- THE STREN':UOUS LIFE. The report of the Medical Examiner of Yale University showed that of the 331 men in the Freshman Class, 141 smoke, 102 wear glasses and 12 more have been told to get them, 134 never had gymnastic training, 4 6 cannot swim, and 196 have been in athleHcs. Average age on entering is eighteen years, the average height i!' is 5 ft. 8 in., the average weight 13 6 lbs. Of the 196 who have taken part in athletics, 101 were in football, 81 in baseball, 7 4 in track and 4 9 in basketball. * * * * An interfraternity council has been formed at Dartmouth. The organization was formed for the consideration of interfraternity matters. * * * * A new system has been tried with the ninety- two Amherst freshmen this fall with surprising results. The instruction in physical training in the past has included dumbbell and pulley weight exercises and the like, but this year the freshmen were taken out to the athletic :field and given a course of outdoor gymnastics. The 'ninety•- two increased in height from Sept. 2 3 to ~ov. 21 by one-fifth of an inch on the average and seven pounds in weight. The Amherst ath- letic authorities have been conveFted to the system of outdoor exercise. * * * * The American Rhodes scholarship students at ~;xff1rc1. Elig1nllc1, tnok first plae.e in f:evrn of the eleven events in the freshman athletic meet held this fall. * * * * The University of Cincinnati is considering the plan of having all students wear caps and gowns on the ca1npus, as is done in many foreign uni- versities. * * * * A new Masonic fraternity has been founded at Stanford. A man to be eligible must be a Master kfa~~on. 1\lembership in the organir.:-tt:o:l :fl purPly elective. The prime object of the order is social benefit. Only Masonic students and faculty mem- bers are e-ligible to membership, and the aim of the new organization differs from the usual Greek ~letter fraternitr in that ·tne .social side is not pre- dominant. Loyalty to Masonic principles and higher education are the cardinal points. * * * * Last year Yale had an annual deficit of $41,.926, This fall the managem:ent of the football team cleared $70,000, and it is said that the total amount which has been earned by this depart- m·m'ilt .of athletics has reached a million dollars. * * * * The result of decision in the will case is to sus- tain the executors of the will of Daniel B. Fayer- weather, the leather merchant, in paying over to twenty colleges, in 1897, something like $3,500,000 which was the residuary estate. COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 0 Show your College Spirit by giving it your patronage. ® Orders Attended to Promptly. W .. HUNI: ?05 Silliman Hall A. L. OWENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, N. Y. --- -------- -------------------- COLLEOE GOWNS, CAPS The Best \Yorkmam:::hip at Lowest Prices Silk Faculty Gowns, Hoorls COX SOI\JS & VINING 262 .F'ourth Ave.; NEw YoRK ------------- ---------------- l{obsona/ldee BOOKMEN SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA

THE CONCORDIENSJS. Collegemen find a grateful degree of comfort and service in the Brighton Flat Clasp Garter. Now worn by near= ly two millipn men. Made from one piece of pure silk webbing with nickel trimmings that cannot rust. Price zsc. atstoresot·by mail. PIONEI<:R SUSPENDER CO., 718 Market Street, Philadelphia. Makers < f Pioncrr f'n::peuder~. firthur J. ldhite Successor to MacLean \3he College Photographer\ Liberal Discount to College lVIen. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. Ph J 492 H_ orne one { 47rn H. R. DR - UGSPipes,Cigars - Lowne_y's Candies Anythmg and Everything OPEN ALL NIGHT REYNOLDS CORNER STATE STREET t AND THE RAILROAD John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE .... MERCHANT TAILOR 35 Maiden Lane Albany, N.Y. 'CHAS. HoLTZ:MANN & SoN 259 STATE STRE'ET Hawes Hats are the ideal .college l\1en's Hats. In buying the111 we had the men of Union College in mind. We bave shapes that will plpase you college men. They are $3.00, with onr usual college discount. /1 j CJf Jf GE• r:;' Surcessor to <::/1.. ·: • ClYJC L. GERAHDFS Sl\IITH Dealer in COAL AND WOOD Telephone 321 140 South Centre St. Schenectady~ N. Y .. ------------- ----------- H. S. BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S Gl~EA TEST S1'0R.E HEA.DQU AHTERS POR Men's Furnishings of all l(inds Special Prices to Students f. A. RICKARD B Co. Sporting Goods · 253 State Street Schenecta.cly

I ' I ' ; ' 't ., :I. I· I' II! : 1 ! I,,,; , I: il i I. ' ' i I , .. I I I8 AD VERTISEJJ;JE\'NTS. Electric Lishtins A·pparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric , Power Apparatus. Electr.ic Transmiss·ion of Power. Sales offices in all the large cities .of the UBited States. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. BOWLS MADE IN FRANCE Pipes Repaired EYRES, S·ociety Florist . FLORAL EM·BLBMS ARRANGED I~N ARTISTilC STY!LES. THOUSANDS OP ROSES, CARNATIONS AN:D VIOLEtS ALWAYS ON HAND. I No. Pearl St. fel. 208. Al:bany, N.Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. · OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY. N. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK. VEAL, LAMB, HAMS, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty GRU . PE THE FLORIST., 1 426 STATE STREET Supplies Flowers for Balls, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York. Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N. Y. Brooks Works, Dunkirk, N. Y. Pitts burg \\Vorks Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. Cooke Works, Paterson, N.J. ·. Rhode Island Works, Providence, R. I. Dickson Works, Scranton, Pa. Manchester Works, Manchester, N. H. Locomotive & Machine Co. Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVIC}-i~. = < ..

::: T • ADVERTISEMENTS. 'The Gazette is easily the foremost ·daily in Schenectady. -PRI~.TERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904: Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telephone 425 General Office 420 State St. } Schenectady, N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Cet~emonials; or for After-Six Forn1alities, THE 'VARSITY MAN W 110 WEARS \STEEFEL QUALITY CLOTHES HAS THE SATI'SF ACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRIED. STEEFEL BROTHERS 18-80-82 State' Street Albany, N. Y. James H. Barhyte Lucas W. Deven.peck Barhyte & Deveqpeck Wholesale & Retail Dealers Coal- and Mason. Supplies Telephones 242 & 242-2 .. Office lO 6 Union St. · Schenectady • N. Y • . ·CORNELL UNIVERSITY ' MEDICAL COLLEGE New York City t[HE course covering four years begins during the first week in October and continues until June. A preliminary training in natural science is of great advantage. All the classes are divided in small sections for recita- tion; laboratory and clynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted , to advance standing after passing the required examinations. The successful completion of the first year in any College or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory stand- ard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission · which have 1ately been raised. The annual announcement giving full particulars will be mailed on application. WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D.~ DEAN, Cornell University Medical College, 27th and 28th Streets and 1st Avenue, N.Y. City Telephones H. R.. 74·5-A Home 792 lOl North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y.· MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union College-'92, '93, '94:~ '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Cornell University-'94:, '9.5, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. , Colgate Un.iversity-'94:, '95, '96-, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Williams College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton College-'95, '96, 'in, '98, '99. 'OO, '01, '02. Governor's Mansion-'.94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03/ / EDWIN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanC~rler, Jay Street BATHS~ Razors Honed . The best ~quipped shop in. the city. All modern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON r ·Successor toR. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steam~hip .Agency lll State Street Schenectady, l't. Y. WOOD 'BROTHERS MEN'S .FURNISHERS 265 STATE STREET Fine Dress Shirts in Manhattan and Monarch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and. Mallory Hats. Crawfory and Foren1ost Shoes. Home Steam Laundry. ' \

' ;:lj : Jill : 1·•1 '• !'', I , I, I II il '• i I THOSE NEW CLOTHES ~E ha~e just wh~at y.· ou w.a.nt~-the kin·d that pleases_ the most ~ particular dressers. Ours ts an enormous collection of fine Suits, Overcoats, Fur Coats and Raincoats. Every garment is new---made from throughly reliable fabrics and cut in the most approved styles. The prices are so low that everybody can afford to buy their clothing of us. You will never make a mistake if you wear our clothes. · . We are also showing a very attractive assortment of Hats, Caps, Gloves, Neckwear, Shirts, Collars, Cuffs, Sweaters, Underwear, Hosiery, Etc. Store closes 6:oop.m. Saturdays 10:30 p. m. BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. 'Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y .. 467 State St. Schenectady STULL BROS. 467 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN HABERDASHERY CUSTOM TAILORING The 1904 College Men will wear THE 3 INCH FOUR-IN-HAND THE L.A.RGE ENGLISH SQUARE Gloves, Hosiery, Night Shirts, Pajamas, Shirts, · Collars and Cuffs, all strictly high-class -goods Everything new. Shirts and Pajamas made to measure. The bigness ancf fullness that characterizfd clothes last season are just as noticeable features of the fashions for Autumn and . . Winter. Coats will be 29 J inches in length with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in length.. Plain and fancy browns are the latest shades. The particular dresser comes to us, for we dress him in a parti~­ uiar way. . i

· ... -~ . I ~ ~-· --~~--~--~----~~------------------------------~ + + + + THE + + + + CONCORD lEN SIS '.,. VOLU'ME XXVIII NUM:BER 12 < •, ' . ' , Qll mnutJS¥8 IIK4fij@ 4 I!JQR11C!JW3iA QWQ N DECEMBER 17, 1904 ,! l .. { J. Br~-~1 1 , College .LdiJ.rary PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

2 ADVERTISEMENTS. Union University. ANDREW V. V. RAYM'OND, D~ D., LL. D., PRESIDENT. UNION OO:LL.EG.E, SOHENEOTADY, N. Y. '1. Courie Leading to the Degree of .A.. B. Z. ·Course Leading to the ·Desree of B. S. :J. Co\J·rse ·Leading to the Oegree of Ph. B. 4-. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. S. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 6. Electrical Course Leading·.to the Degree of B. E. This differs from course 4: in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in -piace of some of the General Engineering studies. 'This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Eleetric Company, un- der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4:, 5 or 5. For catalogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF IYIEIJIOINE. Albany Medical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita- tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Pratical Operati()ns. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full information, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany. N. Y. DEP .ARTMENT OF LAW. , Albany Law Schooi.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the .t;tat~ Capitol. It occupies a buUding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to · the degree of LL. B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $1<1; tuition fee. $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, W. R. DAVIDSON, Secretary Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exerch:;es held in Albany :Medical College Building. For catalogue ;,nd information address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N.Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIE'S Fraternity House Sttpplying a Specialty · Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. F. C. KRUEGER & CO •. Th·e Up-to·d~te ,Grocery House FULL AND COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their Season. J42 & J44 STATE STREET. Dr. St. Elmo N. Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State and Clinton Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BONBONS and CHOCOLATES Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon's The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, Schenectady, N.Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY. N.Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWN.S and HOODS to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from the Atiantic to the Pacific. Class confr'acts a specialty. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 237 State St. Schenectady, N.Y.

ADVERTISEMENTS. 3 THE TENEYCK AL:S..A.NY. N. T. .J?os5...t5...v-ely FS.re-Froof. European Plan. Most attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITOL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music during evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone i11 every room. H. J. ROCKWELL tn SON KEELER'S Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and :Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attached Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Anne.x, 507 ®.. 509 'Broadway .·.THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Tlte Largest and Best Appointed Hot~l in tlte City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. ' ~~------...---=I~=·T•h•e•b•e•s 11 t•p•la•c•e•f•o•r•• \ • 0 . , .• '.E. .:.R· ..... · . 5 .y~ . CA'N:DlES, TOBACCO . Ice Creatn, Cigarettes S ·o :D A, C .f 0 A ~R S ·. 511 UNI.ON ST. Three blocks from the campus I Established 1845 Incorporated 1900 W. & L. E. GURLEY, TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers in America of Field Instrutnents for Civil Engineers' and and Surveyors', also makers of Physical and Scientific Instrutnents of all kinds and U. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing Instruments, Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T -squares, Triangles, Curves,· Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, Rubber, Scientific Books, Anemometers, Barorneters, Thermometers, Magnifiers, Etc. Headquarters for Novelty .Suitings. Speeial attention always given to students by C. GOETZ, Tailor l :CeR.tral Arcade Schenectady, N.Y. E. C. HARTLEY, Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full line of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UNION STREET For Ha.ts, Ca.p.s, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases. Etc., go to M.MANN'S Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing HaU, which can be rented for Private Parties oE.ly, in connection with house. 29 Front S.treet Schenectady, N. Y.

' I ' ADVER TJSEMENTS. Photographs LEVI fMOORE 15 North Pear{ St.~ Albany~ .N. Y. Special R.ates to Students Appointments by Mail or Teleplkone HOPKINS & CO. 64 North Pearl St. u 'We make ,our ocwn clothing.\' ALBANY, N. Y. COLLEGE TAILORS AND CL,OTHIERS Our fall and winter line of brown suitings and over coat- ings is now complete in the Custom Tailoring, as w.ell as Ready-to-Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be excelled. Suits and Overcoats frotn $l5.00 to $60.00 The Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Building 313 and 315 State Street ---------------~--~--~--~···-~----~~ dlLLEN' S CJ300KSTORE. 508 FULTON ST., TROY, N.Y. cAll Union College Text Books Second Hand and New~ in stock Long Distance Teleph.on.e LIMMER & EVANS .• Florists •• Dan~urier Q)pera !)ou5e LORRAINE BLOCK STATE STREET C. H. BENEDICT TEL'EPHONE N<».Jl5 Both Phones Manager

THE CoNcORDIENSIS :VOL. XX.Vlll. . UNION ·C·OLLEGE., DEC. I7, r904 .. No. I2 ~u:N:ION WARMLY 'TOASTED BY NEW YORK ALUMNI. Prominent Men Attend Annual Banquet-- . President Raymond ··Makes Enthusiastic Speech for the College-Quartette·· Present '['he seventeenth annual reunion and banquet of 0 Ure Union College Alumni Association of New York was held at the Hotel Manhattan, New York City, on the evening of December 8th. There were one hundred persons present, and the real, though col- leg-e spirit was felt and showed by all. '£he ta. bles were decorated with American Beauty roses and ferns, and were excellently arranged. A long table was provided for the speakers and ~·lnaller circular ones, seating from four to six, for the guests. The b_anquet hall with its beautiful pa,in lings and draperies was well set off by electric lights and candelabra. ::::.vrusie was furnished by the Neapolitan quartette, 'Tony Lignati, leader, and by the Union College GlE.e C1ub quartette, composed of Byron W. Reed, '0~, leader; William S. Speir, '07; Alexander Kline, '08, and Rayinond Snow, '08. The Neapolitans sa.ng in Italian, and acted some of their songs in an intere~ting manner~ The college quartette sang the following songs between the courses and speeches: Union Marching Song, Fac\llty Song, Unio11 Beside the Mohawk Vale, Alma Mater, Old Union, (by B. W. Reed), Medley, Ching-a-Ling, Bulldog in the Bank, The N ott Elm Tree, If You Want to Go to Union, Terrace Song, America, and Song to Old Union. At the conclusion of the last course President Seward. of the Association called the banqueters to order and gave a brief talk on his impressions ~ of the centennial of Dr. Nott's inauguration. He then called .. the \decade roll-call,\ and when num- ;ben; were compared, declared the 80's to have the lai·6est delegation.'present. Led by the quartette, the entire assemblage sang \A1nerica\ in response to the toast \The Flag.\ ~Toastmaster Seward then a.:nnounced Presiden~ Rayn1:onti. as the fir.st speaker, on Alma Mater .. The ''Song to Old Unior;t\ was sung by all, and then President Raymond responded to the toast in a n1auner which stirred everyone present to a high pitch of enthusiasm. Among other things he said: \Vvhen a whole man enters\ college, the college enters him, gets hold of him, lives with him, be- cornc.,s a part of him, so that ever after he feels that he is not true to himself unless he is true to hi~ college; that when he honors his college he honorA himself; that wh;:t,tever honors his college lifts him. a little higher. \rrhat is why the true college man is willing to n1ake sacrifices for his alma n1ater. There is no mathen1atics above his devotion, no consciousness of a quid pro quo, any more than there is about his devotion to his mother, his wife or his country. It is instinct of loyalty, the impulse of a. spirit that has been touched and quickened by another spirit. \VVe may deplore some things ~bout college athletics, and surely there is large room for honest criticism, but the best word has not been said for athletics till attention has been called to the spirit fostered by them. Say what we may, it is a fine thing for a boy to be fired with ambition to do . . something for his colle~e, an ambition that means long self-denial and the hardest kind of effort. \'Ihe something that he wants to do may not be the worthiest thing he can do, but he does not realize that, and, after all, it is for his college, so1nething for the larger life of which he is a part. That spirit, whether or not it is fostered by athletics, is the most real thing in college life to- day: The other responses were as follows: The National Union .... Charles Emory Smith, '61 Our Union .............. Hon. Wm. S. Bennett, '92 The Faculty .......... Prof. James H. Stoller, '84 The Trustees ...... Prof. Franklin H. Giddings, '77

THE CONCORDIE.lvSIS. The CoUege Spirit ........ William H. McElroy, '6@ vVha t ShaH We Do W:ith Him? ............... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrew W. Gleason, '61 The banquet ended by all joining hands and singing \Auld Lang Syne.'' It was a .success in every way. The specjal guests, who sat around the speakers' table, were the President of Union College, An- drew Y. V. Raymond, '75; Prof. William Wells, Prof. James H. StoHer, '84; Hamilton W. Mabie, George H. Daniels, William S. Bennett, '92; Wil- liam II. McElroy, '60; Andrew W. Gleason, '61; Prof. J!,ranklin H. Giddings, '77; T. B. Bleeker, George S. Greene, Jr., Henry Churchill, Rev. T. S. Jackson, Wilson T. Powell, Jr., '59; Andrew C. Clark. Others who partici:Pated in the banquet were Edgar S. Barney, '84; Clarence Johnson, '90; Frank A. DePuy, '77; Edward I. Devlin, '81; John M. Scribner, '59; Edward H. Ripley, '62; Edward J. Prjest, '92; Frederick Klein, '95; DanielS. Lamont, '72; Wheeler H. Peckl1am, Silas B. Brownell, '52; vVHliain A. A. Brown, '77; S. L. F. Deyo, '70; Jus- tin 0. Reynolds, '94; Lewis M. Bloomingdale, '02; v\r'\arner Miller, '60; George F. Seward, '60; Daniel M. Stin1son, '64; Clark W. Crannell, '95; William H. H. Moore, '44, and George Alexander, '66. The following officers were elected: President, Frederick W. Seward, '49; vice-presidents, George F. Seward, '60, and Charles E. S:prague, '60; secre- tary, Edgar S. Barney, '84; treasurer, Clarence Johnson, '9~.~ ALUMNI. ~38.-The address of Rev. Livingston G. Parker is Numa, Iowa. * * * * '44.-Louis Livingston. died at Tivoli, Nov. 27, 1904. * * * * '60.-Joseph P. Burt is searcher of records at San Diego, Cal. His .address is 18 0 4 C. St. * * * * '74.-Robert A. McDuffie is a lawyer at 309 Broadway, New York City. * * * * '75.-Edward E. Whitehorne is practicing med- icine at Mazomaine, Wis. '82.-F .D. Van 'Wagenen is a seedman at Ful- ton, N.Y. '85.--Robert J. Wands ~is a merchant at Albany. His address is 377 Broadway . * * * * '87.-George L. Flanders, first assistant com- missioner of .agriculture of New York State, de- livered an address on the proposed repeal of the oleomargarine tax law at the annual meeting of the New York State Dairymep's Association, which met at Herkimer, Dec. 13-1·5, 19@4. * * * * '98.-J ohn H. Gutman is a physician at A;lbany, N. Y. THE STU·DE:NTS' COLUMN:. NOTE-(N o .anonymous communication will be considered, nor will the .editors as- sun1e responsibility for what may be said below) .. Editor of the Concordiensis, Union College. Dec. 11, 1904:. Sir:--ln last week'·s Concordy appeared an edi- torial ·wrongly setting forth and criticising a state- Inent made by one of our :professors in a discussion -v-vith one of his classes. As a member of that elass, I wish to say in justice to the professor, and to the class, that, since H was evidently written by .some one not a member of the class, it must have been very much misinterpreted by the author of the article or very much misunderstood by the mem- ber of the class who told it. V'\'hat tlle professor really said was that through- out the colleges of the country students who work their way through are likely to and do neglect their ·work on account of the leniency of the :facul- ties \li-'ho do syrnpa thize with them. He said that he thought that pressare ought to be brought to bear 011 them to pay more attention to study and less to idle amusement; not to curtain their oppor- tunities to support themselves. Above all he did not say that he had RO sympathy for the man who ·worked his way through. 011. the contrary, that he had every sympathy for him if he really spent his tirr1e in study and deserved his diploma by his classical attainm0nts. A man in college should be 1narked for his classical attainments; and if just beea use he is self-supporting even though he is a poor student, he is mJrked high, it is an injustice to the good student who is not supporting hi.mself. It is only a justice to the professor and to the class that the editorial be contradicted. Very truly yours, ''A STUDENT.''

t e e THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 UNION'S FOOTBALL SEASON: FOR 1904. ~G. took on such games as Brown, Amherst and \Vest Point. :Hamilton also played Williams, Col- gate and Cornell. It is doubtful if they gained any benefit from any of those games, judging by the Financial Gain-Statistics of ·T earn-Record of Games-President ·Raymond and Others Make Statements- Prospects. . scores. For two seasons previous to this last, Union football tea1ns broke training with a string of de- cisjye ·and in 1nany cases overwhelming defeats for their record. Union alumni and students be- FINANCE. Therr:! is much to be noted in the financial report, • but space forbids it here. Attention is called to the fact that over one-half of the coach's pay carne from the student fund. ''Cash on hand\ when all is {jver is one of the surprises of the year. The Concordiensis is indebted to Mr. Pond for the foi- came so accustom.ed. to seeing their team walk lo,ving concise report: RECEIPTS. discouraged and beaten from the field that an ex- cess of exultation and pride over the record this past Reason n1ay be pardoned if detected. The record as it stands is one to be proud of and it faithfully serves its best purpose by re- viving Union men from the football apathy into which they seemed to be falling. Six won out of nine gaines played with a total of 157 points scored on opponents n1ay be mentioned with pardonable pride by any interested in Union's football career. The season shows a slightly weaker schedule than Union usually faces in the falL With the exception of Colun1bia, every team played was from a college in Union's class. r.rher8 were no Darhnouth, Am- herst or sin~ilar gaines as last year. 'I'he manager showed good judgment and excel- . lent foresight in doing this this year, but next fall a slight departure could be reasonably made. Also one more game at least could be added to the schedule. Another feature that turned out well for its ef- fect on the college· especially, ,was that six out of the nine games were played on Union's Campus. One of the six was lost. Next year the students cannot expect to witness as many .games, and the tean~ ·will be put to a stern test. Rochester and Hamilton forced down Union's throat thE.\ only bitter medicine she had to take. At the opening of the training table in 1905, there should be hung in full view of the Union players the namefl of those two institutions· in black. The results of the games with them must be written in blazing garnet letters another year. · It might be well to note incidentally that N. Y. Aug. 1st, 1904-Balance forward from sea- son 1903-1904 ...... · ....................... $ 163.53 R ecelved from :various alumni for coach ful~d .................. ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110.00 HE:ceiYed from students! campus tax and returns from games by L. L. Odell, manager ................................. DISBURSEMENTS. .i 2,634.66 $2,908.t9 vV\'HTiai\~l J. Smith Coach .................. $ 500.00 500.00 Guarantee paid to visiting teams ........ . Paid Mrs. J. S. Snyder, on account of training· table ........................... . Stlpplies .... o~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Paid to Manager Odell for trips and inci- d.ei1tals .................................. . Printing, advertising, stationery, postage, freight, express and general incidentals. Cash on hand and in bank Dec. 14, 1904 .. .\ 182.85 455.76 615.00 250.05 $2,503.66 404.53 $2,908.19 ThP-re are still several accounts for which in- voi('eS have not as yet been received, and when these are audited and paid, the cash on hand and in bank will amount to $195.85. COACHING. Redundant praise is hardly possible when the coaching department is mentioned. Dr. Raymond, Dr. To\vne, Capt. Patton, alumni, every man on. the te;--..nl, every man in college, utters the name of Bill Smith first, and then begins to tell the story of the season. r_rhis universal praise shows one thing, and that is that the coach has secured such a hold on the football feelings of this institution that disaster may follow if he attempts to let it go at this stage. Coach Sn1ith knows the rough and smooth places at Union, for he is an aluiniius. He knows what

8 THE CONCORDIENSlS. his strengib of 1naterial is, he knows what points have to be overlooked, and what have to be de- veloped or considered:. He understands the pecu- Har charaeuer of the student body here and knows how to treat it. He can harmonize his ways with those of th€ faculty to the advantage of his tea,ms. His 1nethods are very dif-ferent from those of coaches \-YhO have come he:ce from large univer- sities. H,e can treat with patience many condi- student body at hi:s back in whatever he does. He nraintains the eonservatism and power of his posJ.t1on while us.ing ·every force and element in college to further his ambition and ·aims for ~he tean1. That's why he will ever be the coach for Union. MANAGEMENT AND CAPTAIN.OY. J\1anager Odell and Captain Patton were each coilslstent, faithful hard workers with always the THE UNION FOOTBALL TEAM ./ Wright Norwood Shutler Hal'vey Nutt Moore Gilmour Cook McNab Becker Kluge Patton, Capt. Dal\n R.aymond Robil\son Hildreth. Davis tions to -which they won't submit or which they don't uncierstand. He kno-ws that his independ- ence is to some extent limit€d, that it is necessary to personally urge the student body to support the teEm, but he accepts this as one of the difficulties of the place. H'is results count. He gets unusually large scruhs. He turns out successful teams that play -vvell and win games, Re feels the faculty and interest of the college at heart. A g1ood big share of credit for the success ·goes to their efforts in their respectrve :positions. Despite the desires of the management the cam- pus \-vas crowded day after day with non-descripts, who seriously interfered with the wor-k of the team and the coach. Rochester and Hamilton played l.T'nion at unseasonable times, ·· but od·en . had to take them then or not at· alt A .juai~ious

8 THE CONCORDIENSJS. his ~tr,·Jlgtll of 111<\ tvrial is, hl' knows what I JOints h:tYL' to ht• ovvrlookL·<1. <\ltd \\·h:lt ha\·v to be' tle- Yl·lol H·d ur L'Oll~idt ·n·<l. He un dersta m1:=; thL· pt.·cu- 1 ia r vll:n·al'tl·l' of tlw ~t U<lL'llt bmly hvre <llld know:=; how to tn·at it. Hi.· can hm·mm1i:~.e his ways with tho~v of tlw fitculty to thL· a<1n1ntagt.~ of hi:=; tL•<tms. Hi::-1 nwt lwd::-1 :tn· Yvl'~y difi\'l'l-'Ilt from those of <·o<td1l'H \\'ho ha\'L' L'Ol11l' lH•l'L' from large uni\'l'l'- ~i tiL·s. 11 <. ea n trPa t \Yith pa tit.•J1l'e many concH- stuclc·n t body at hi:=; ba('k in wha tl'YE:'l' he <Joc•s. He maint:lins the consel'\·a tism an<l JlO\\'L'l' of his position whilL' uRing l'\'ery fort.:l' mHl v1L-'111E'Ilt in colkgr~ to furthL·r hi~.;; ;unbition an<l ain1s fm· the tean1. That's why lw will en~r lw the c·oct('h for Cni011. ~L\:\'\AGE:\li~XT A:\'D C.:'\PT.\IXCY. ::\lanager Otl P 11 and <':q>t< dn }>a ttoll \H'l'l' t'<t d1 consi~'ltl·nt, faithful hanJ. workt.·rs with al wu ys the· TilE UNION FOOTBALL TEAM Wright Norwood Shutler Harvey Nutt Moore Gilmour Cook McNab Becker Kluge Robinson Patt()n, Capt. Dann Davis R.aymond Hildreth. t io11s to whkh tlwy \Hm't ~ uhm it or wh kh they don't llJH1< 1·stand. H<· lu1ow~ that hi:::1 inde11end- Pl1C't' is tn ~onw PXtt'nt lin1Ht·<l. that it is Iwcessary to JlPrsou;1lly m·gt• thP stw1<·nt lHHly to support tlu~ t<·~;m, lmt lw ~H'<'t>pts this as onP of tlw <1iffkultic~s of the p1nco. His n·sults <·ouut. HL· gds uuusunlly lai·g-~~ St'l'llh~. Ht· tur11:.;; nut su<·<'·t·~sful tv;uns that Jllay wdl null win ganws. HL' fePls tlH_' faculty and i 11 t ( ·r< ·st of the• coil pgp at lH •a rt. A ~nod ll ig· s lw n' of C'l'Pdit for t1w SUL'<'PSS go~·s to tlwir L·fi'orts iu Uwi r l'PSpcdi n· po:::1i tions. Tkspitc· thP <lL·Sil'PS of tl1P m;uwg-t·nwllt t1ll' <·am- J•u:=; was ('l'O\\'t1l'd <1ay aftPr d;ty with non-<l<·St'l'iJlt~. who Sl'l'inusly iut<·rfPl'<'<l With tlll' \\\Ol'k of tlw tPH111 tl11<1 nw ('Oach. Hol'llP~tt'l' an<l Hamilton plnyP<1 1·nio11 at U!lSPa:::1on:tlllt• tinws, hut (h1l'11 h;tll to takl· th~'nl then or uot at all. A judidous li ~ f I

THE CONCORD!ENSIS. 9 ~mrtLngen1ent of games counts for a team's success and requires time and consideration. Managers <'an always count on Union teams playing at their 1 nax.iTnUnl ability near the end of the season. Cu.ptain Patton was ail:ways fair an.G: unselfish towanl hts 1nen. He set them good examples both in hls playing and leadership. Their opinions of 1lin1 expressed as they .are in loyal terms are fully justif1E~d. His generalship could be seldom ques- tioned exeept in the Rochester game, where he al- ro~vv.ecl a wrong play to go through. He might per- ha.r.~s have directed the plays more during the rJ'rogres~' of the games, for his judgment on many occc::t:sions would have been better than the quarter- ba.ek's. THE rrEAJ\1. Ends.-At end Union was exceptio11ally strong this year. The three regular men, Wright, Davis and Slu:;.tler, were all first class. They played much alike, getting down the :field fast under punts and guarding their positions well on the defense. The substitutes, Cook and Hildreth, were strong, Cook sho\ving all his old time speed when in the game. 'Tackles.-At tackles Patton and Dann played the whole season through. They rnade a good W()rking pair with little to choose betw·een them. Patton was probably a trifle better on the offen- sive while on the defensive, wbat advantage there was lay with Dann. Guards.-Von Dannenburg and Kluge started in these places but in the middle of the season Kluge was obliged to surrender his place to Nor- wood, a newcomer. Von Dannenburg was the be:::;t of the trio, being especially strong on break- ing through and s1nashing trick plays. Norwood played a very consistent game. Centre.-Nutt played a strong, consistent game at centre. He was light, but aggressive, and, us- uaJly, was pretty reliable in his passing. Gilmour gave him a hard run at first but later his work fell off although at times he showed flashes of almost brilliant playing. Quarter.-This position was keenly fought for during the whole season by Robinson and McNab. They were well n~atched, McNab possibly being better in head work and in running the ball back while Robinson handled the baU much n1ore cleanly. Halfbacl{s.-Although there were no stars on the team this year, Harvey and Moore came near- est to deserving that appellation. Of the two, Harvey was somewhat more consistent in his playing. Reeder was good but was not out enough. Cook was used here as well as at end. Flllilbael{.-This position was a hard one to determine upon. Becker and Raymond both played well and could be depended upon for the best in them at all tin1es. Becker's advantage in. weight and strength was about equalized by Ray- mond's superior knowledge of the game and his agility. STATISTICS. tton· ......... · ... Pa Ra Be Da \'Tl Da No Kh Vo Nu Mr Ha Mo Ho Sh Hi Gil Co ymon.d ......... cker ............ .\,.iS • ............ ·ight ............ nn .............. rwood 'I· ........ lgf'> .•.•••.•• ' ••• nDannenburg. tt ............... . Nab ........ --: ... r'Tey ............ ore ............. hinson ......... lltler ............ ldreth .......... 1nour ........... ok .............. A(le - 22 20 26 18 21 22 23 20 24 25 19 19 18 19 19 19 23 20 Height ft. in. - 6 0 5 11 6 0 5 10% 5 9 5 11 5 9 5 10% 6 1 5 10 5 9Yz 5 8% 5 11 5 10 5 6Yz 5 8 6 0 5 10~ *New York Wt. Class - -- 186 1905 155 1905 175 1905 160 1907 168 1907 180 1906 175 1906 175 19~5 190 1906 170 1906 156 1908 160 1907 160 1908 142 1907 156 1908 148 1908 180 1906 H9 1906 Pnp. School *Albany A eadem y Hig·h School, Pa ~<Middleburg High Lynchlwrg·High, Va *Pulaski High *Walton High Han1prlen High, l\1 e *Elmira Free Acad. *Brooklyn High S. *Hoosick Fall:-; High *lTuion Cla~s. Inst. *:Union Class. lnHt. *Ogdensburg F. Ae. *WaterYliet HighS. *:Utiea Free Acad. Hig·h School, Pa. *Ogdensburg F. Ac. *Albany High S. Average age-20 8-9 years; average height- 5 ft. 10 1-4 in.; average weight-165 5-6 lbs. STATEI\fENTS. PresWent Raymond-\I was pleased, as we all were, at the outcome of the season, and I feel that the lJoyfl accon1plished what thC'y did because of their united spirit and the enthusiastic feeling of the college. \One gratifying feature of the season was the fact that there was little or no interference with regular college work Most of the gan1es were playC'c1 on the campus, ·while those out-of-town wero played on holidays. There \vas no question of eHgibility because of scholarship. All the men wer'e in good standing-so1ne of thern with excel- lent rr::cords. \tJndE:r the present conditions there can be little just criticism of athletics at Union.\ Coach S1nith-\The Union team of 1904 was one

l' ill _hl' (' 11 li ~ f I TH F; [f)~VCO f(JJ! J:J.YS!S. 9 111 a:xilllUlll nbility nv:tl' tht· t•nd of tlw :-;t•:t:-;on. ( ':q,l.<lill Pntton \Yil~ al\vay~ fail· :nul un~t·lti~h to\va rd hi~· llll'll. H P ~L't t1wn1 g·<lod <'X:tmplt·~ both ill ]li~ pl<tying- :111<1 ll·:t<1<·r~llip. Tlll'ir opinion~ of lliltl (':\l'n·::-;~t·t1 as Lht·y nrt· in lo~·:tl t<·rtn::-; ar<· fully lo\\·l·d a \\Tollg' pia~' to go thrllugll. Ht• might ]ll'l'- 11:q•:-; ll<lYt· <1irvdt·tl tlw pl<ty:-; llWJ't• <1Ul'ill!!.- tlw 1 r():~T<·::-;~; pf tlw g·:tllll'~. for lli:-; judgJnt·nt on lllctllY (il'l..'it~i<)]J~.; \\OU!tl h:t'\'l' lH't'll lH'ttl'I' tll:tll thl' <(llill'lt•J'- T II E T E.\ :\I . Ewl:-i.-.\t l'tlll l'nioil \\'as l'X('l'l'tiollally ~trong- thi~ y<·:tt'. Tlw thr·t·v l't•gul:tr nH·n. \\'rig·lrt. J>:t\·is t·\Jld ~ln.tit'r, Wt>l't' all fin . .;t cla~s. Tlwy pby<·d mtwh alil\t', gl'tting <lo\\11 Ow 1h·l<l fast UJHkr l·llllt::-; :ttld ~·u:tl'ding tlll'il' po:-:Hi<lll~ \\'t•ll <lll tilt' tk!'t•Jt:-:t•, TlH· :-:ul,::-;tittltt·::-;, <'oul.;: and Hildn·t]l, \Vt·n· ::-;trong, ('ook ~11<1\\111!.:: :til hi~ llld tinw s}wt·d \\llt·ll il1 tlH· ganH·. Tadd~·~.--.\t taddt•s l'atttlll :111d I ':.tltlt play~·. I tht· \\'holt' ::-;t·a~on tln·,,ugh. Thvy lll:t<k <l g·1H1•l W<JJ'ldllg l':.til' vdtll littll- to vlltHlSt' lll'l\V\'l'll tlwnl. Pat toll \\'C.l~ Jil'o1Ji\ hly a t1·itk lll'tt<'l' 1111 t IH· o!Tt•Jt- si\'l' \\'hil<· nil tllv dt•ft·ll~i\'1', \dwt :t<h·:ultc.q . .!,·t· tht·rv w<t~ lay with I>ann. (~uard~.--\'oll llctllll\'ll.hurg <tlld Klug-t· :-;t:trt,·d \\' OU!1. <I Ilt'\\'C! l Ill t·J\. l>l'St of tht• trio, ht•iltg· v-.:Jil't'!:tlly ~tl'tlll, .. !,' till lll't·:tl~­ ing· through and ~mashing trick 1days. ~ ,, nVtHHl pI a y1 ·d n \'t'l ~- col 1~ ist t·i 1 t g·<t m c·. u:1lly. was pn•tty n·linhh· ill his }l<t:-:siJJg. <;iillHl\ll' g-aY<' hiln a hard run at iirst hnt l<ttt•J' lli:-; w,,J'!~ fdl off nlth<lUgh at timt·::-; Ill' slltl\\'t•d !l:1~h~·s ,,r alnw~t brilliant pln~·ing-. QWH'tPl'.-Thi~ po::-;itioll was kt•t•llly f,,U.~.!;ht for <1urillg th1..• \Yll<ll!' ~~·ason hy Ito1dlt~<lll a11d :\1<·:\nll. Thl'Y \\'C'I'l' w·l'll m:tteht·<l. ..:\1<·:\al> ptlssildy ht•ing hdtt•r ill lwad\\'o!'l{ H!l1l iu !'Ullllillg tilt• h:tll hc.u·k whHe H.obin::;on htuldll'll the ball much !ll<ll'l' elt·anly. Halfhat•l{!-i.---.\ ltll()ugll t lH·r·t· wc•l't' nn ::-;tar~ on t•::-;t to <lt-~l'l'\'illg t'll:lt ~lpjw]l:ttioll. ()f t]H• twn, ({:11'\'t•~- \\'(\~ ::-;llllll'\\'ll<tt lllOl'l' l'Oll~i~t!•llt ill hi~ dl'lt•J'lllillt' lllJtlll. h t·~.; t iII t I H' Ill :1 t :111 t i l1l L~i:i. \\·t·ight and stn·ngtll \YiU:i alHlllt t·qu<tlizt·tl hy n<ty- rnoltd'~ ~UJll'l'illl' lUltl\\'ll~dgt' uj\ tilt• g:lllll' :tlltl llis :t~·i]ity. Pat 1 (}11 . • . . . • • . . . . . ·~·> l{:tylllll])(\ ......... :m Ih·d~t·J'............ 2ti I>aYi~ ............. l\i \\'J·iu:llt ............ ~1 I>atllt .............. ·>·> ::\til'\\'()()(\ I ........ ~:~ h:lt1!_!'(• ............. ~0 \'11111 >:tllll!'lllll!l't!'· ~~ :\tl 11............... ~.i :\1 1 • .\ a l , .. . .. . .. .. .. 1!1 I I :tl'\' t· ~·.. . . . . . • • • . . 1!1 \\tlll]'t• ............. 10.... H.( d ) i 11 ...; (} II . • • • • • . • . HI :--; l1tt tIt· r. . . . . . . . . . . . 1 !I llildn·tll .......... 1!1 ( ; i llll'llll' ... '... . . . . ~;~ ('()()k . .. .. . .. .. .. .. ~() ST.\TISTI( 'S. ft. 'j 11. ;) fi _, ,) ,) ,) ., fi ,) ,) ;) ,) ,) ti ,) . () 11 •o 101, I q- I ' !ll ~ ! l :m 1 2 . 1 :!() I !l', I :--,\1 ,lt 1(0 IiI 2 '-i () (()I 2 1 'i't'f'· S1 ·hnu{ 1\1i \!11);-, '< .\ Jl l Hll ;-· • \ t' :td t•Jl 1 ~· ~.-,~, 1 !lll:i II i!..d 1 :--;'·It\\ I. I' a 11.·, !!Ill.-, '<\! idcll··l>lll'!..!' Hi~d1 llill l!Hl7 l,yJw!JI,,·I'!.dli~.d1:\·a lt i\> I ! Ill 7 \ P ul as k i H i td 1 l'-.1) l!lllti \'\\'alttifl llidt 11.·, l!ll!ti Ilan1pdt·J1 1 iiu:lt. \It· 1i'.i l!l .-> \'l·:l!nir:t Ft·t·t· .\<·ad. l!lll Hlllti \l~t· ~. 1 i'll Hlllti 'II 111 ,..,il-k FaJl ..... \I idt 1 .·.1 i I! II)<.; q · 11 i 1111 < '1 a ~\. lu ~ t. l till Hll l7 ' l . 11 i \11 < 'Ia .., .., . I 1.1, t. llill Hill\' '·t > t!'dt·l1\ h11 n.:· F .. \ , .. 11~ l!lll7 \'\\'aknlid lli!.!·h:-\. l.it; Hlll\' .;.l · 1 if-a Fnt· .\ nt d. ll\' l!ll\' llidt :--;,•lttll)l. Pa. l\D Hlllti *! >···dt•J1 ... hlll'\' F \t• 1-1!1 l!l!lli ·'.\JLany Iligl1 ~: · *~ (-•\\' \' lll'k ST.\TE~·I EXTS. \\'< l't•, :tt tilt• llUktllllt' oft ht• :-;t•;t:-;()11, :tl\11 f f<•t•l that tilt· l1(ly~ :tt't'llll!Jdi:-:h•·d \\'h;lt tilt·~· did hf·t·;tll~t· o!' t 1: . · i 1· ll' , il t • d s 1 , i r i t a 1 1 d t h, . t · 1 1 t h u ::--: i : \ :-; t it' t\. t ., i u g or .. ( l I ' t ' .~ I i I t i f Y i II ~· !' l 'i I t lll\ t • 1 l f t llt· ::-; t 'a~ n 11 \\ i l ~ [ } H' .:.\1(}:-;t of tlll• g:tlllt'~ Wt·n~ pl:t:.(•d (}]] tilt· l':lllJl•ll~. \\hilt· tllll~l' nu\-!lf-to\\'ll Wt·l'!· ]''\~·t d <lll ltl)lid:t y~. Tllt'l't' \\'iiS 1111 qltt•stinn :lt' t·l~t~il·ility lH·,·:Iu~~· ,,r :-:1'!11ll:1r::--:hip. .\II tht· mt·n \'.t'l't• in ~·IHH1 :-:taJtdill~:; ~()Jilt' ,,f 1!Jt·nt ,,.itl1 t'Xt't·l- ' . l . 11 d! l' 1 h t ' lJ I' t' S t 'I Jt l 'I l 11 ,{ j t i 0 II:-; t h t 'l'l' l · i \ 11 lH' J it t Jt> ,iu~1 t·riti• i:-:111 llt' :1thll't.it·s :tt l'Jli<lll.\ ~'ll;'t·Jl ~11Jith -\Tilt• l'11inn tt•;tlll of l!Hll \\'HS Oil(' I I I

IO THE CONCORDIENSJS. . The Concordiensis . eA Literar:_y and ;}\(ews ]Veekly 7JubUshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD Of EDITORS. E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. C. HART, 'o5, F. L. MILLER, 'o6, E. G. SIMONS, 'o5, R. J. NOWELL, 'o5, M. T. RAYMOND, 'o5, J. R.:BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o4, R. B. SMITH, Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Asst. Business :Manager Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor Law. :Department Pharmacy~'Department ASSOCIATE EDITORS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, P. L·. CLASSEN, 'o6, W. KING, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. REPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, M. H. ELLIOTT, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, 'o7, L. S. PARSONS,'o7, H. E. CANTWELL, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, '07, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, W. S. SP-EIR, 'o7. COLLEGE D:IRECTORY. Football{ F. C. Patton, Captain; L. L. Odell:, Manager. Baseball {Paul Hagar, Captetin; . A. J. Thompson, Manager. Track { M. T. R(tymond, Captain; W. T. Hunt, Manager. Gl Cl h {B. W. Reed, Leader; ee u J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager. 1 t t 1 Cl b) B. W. Reed, Leader; ns rumen a u I J. R. Steven's, Jr., Manager C d . . {E. J. Ellenwood, E.· ditor; onc.or zenszs L. C. Hart, Manager. S S. J. Raym0nd, Editor; Garnett A. G. Chapman, Manager. y M C A 5 Malcolm McGregor, President; · · · · ~ W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication_ Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. of gradual development and. of consistency in per- forruance. It was this consistency which gave ther.n ·confidence and Which enabled them to win theN. Y. U. gam.e, in which their opponents great- ly out-weighed them and where in running attack they {1~.~. Y. U.) had shown more power.. ''The team was aggressive, self-reliant and de- te:ernined: and it was these qualities, together with the development which was so thorougbly con- sistent, that made Patton's team at the close of Coach Smith the sea,son a remarkable product and one of the strongest that has ever represented Union. \More attention should be given in the future to the arrangement of the schedule. Failure:~ to do this b::.·ought Hamilton and Rochester far. tQo early in the season, both games being clearly mispl:;t.ced, and apparently no regard having been pa.id to t;h.e

10 The Concordiensis. c:_~\l !.ita.1r_J' ,md ~\'tzcs JV~·el:~r 'l)uMislzed ~t' THF .\Tl '[)E.\'TS OF l 'l',/JON CNI lrERSITY. BOARD Of EDITORS. E. J. ELLEI\\\'OOD, \o5 L. C. HAHT, 'o;, F. L . . \'\ILLEI<. 'oo, E. G. SL\\ONS, 'o5, R. J. NO\\'ELL. 'o5, .V\. T. l<AY1\\0:'\D. 'os~ J. H.)3HO\\'l\. Jr., 'o 3, S. C. riEPO, 'o4. R. B. S1\\ITH, :\SSOCIA TE (~. r. HALL, 'o(1, \V. Kil'\G, '<l(>, [). F. L\\ l<I E, 'o(J, Editor-in-Chief Rusiness Manager Asst. Business Manager Liter~1ry Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor L:l\\' Department Pharmacy:_ Department EDITORS. P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. I<EPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. RI~:\!JBEER. 'o7. H. E. CANT\VELL, 'o7, :'V\. H. ELL!CHT. 'o;, VV. E. WELLE!<, 'o7, \V. T . . \\r~I:\TO~II. ··>7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, L. S. PAI<~ONS.'o;, W. S. SPEIR, 'o7. COLLEC)E l)lRECTORY. I . tl II f F. C .. P~ltt()n, Captain; ·oo . l,z I I 0 i 11 M I .. -· le , , anager. I ) . r.. II I P:lll1 Ha~:1r, C:1pt;1in: J.l.\fc•.1 \ 1 '1'1 1\11 \: • . J. 1()mpson •. v1:tn:tger. ·r .. z, f.\!\. T. H:1ymond. Captain: I ,h ,, \H '[' H J\A 1 \ • • u nt, 1:uuger. c;Jlt' Club .f H. 1 ~\'.cReed, Lejade\:, I .. r\. ~\\'~teven~. r., Jnanager. [JJstnm~c·llful Club_\ B. W. l<eed. Le:tder: - 1 J. R. Stevens. Jr., M:1nager l . . f r::. J. Ellenwood, Editor: Cont·or, zt'lzsts \ l .. C H t M 1 _ • ar , j an~1ger. . t \ S. J l-?:l\'tl1()J1d. ELlitor: ( l rile' . ' . I• 1 A. ( :.. Chapman, Manager. i }\\dlcol m Me( ~reg or, Pn:~ident; y·. ,\1. C. A. W r M I t I S t 1 • u. c n ()~ 1, ecre ary. CO :\CO I~ I )J EN~ IS, Singk Copies, TERMS. Sz.oo Per Ye:H, in Advance 10 Cents AdJress all cc>mm tmications t() THE Co NCOHDIENSIS, Union Co lle~e, Schenect:1Jy, N. Y. Publicatitm_ Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. of gradual dcvl'lolH11C1lt antl of co11sistency in lH'r- f<'l'!;J:tl~c· .. It w:ts thi:..; Ctl!J~-dstt·!H'Y whkh gave th<·IJJ ('ollfidt·nn· an<1 wllil'!1 <·n:tbkd tllt·lll to win tlw ~:. Y. r. g:lllll', ill wllil'll tlwir Olljl(llH'Jlts gn.•;d_- ly out-wcighcL1 Uwm. <UH1 ·wlwrc in ru!lning attack tlH y (X. Y. 1T.) lla<1 sllowu llH>l'L' llO\\\l'l'. \T]H' lL:llll W:tS tl[...!.\i! St·]f-rl'lilllll <tlld l1l'- it'l'llJill< t1: :tll<1 it \\':ts tllt·:-;(• qu:diti<·S, togvtht•t' with U1<· <:<•\'tlo]•m<·nt \Yhkh \Y:t:-; S<> thorou:2.·IJ1y L'()ll- sistt 111. tllat lll:tL1<· Patt()ll's tv:tlll :tt thv clust· of Coach Smith this l,:·oli!-!.l!t I l:tllJi1t()lJ :111tl I ~~~~·h~·st< r l';tl' too t•:trly ill tllt· St ::~()tJ, l>cllh g;tnw:-: l>•·ill;.!,' l'k:tl'IY lllisplllt'L'(l, anti <lllPHl'l.!lltly no rcganl having 1Jccn paid to the

THE CONCORDIENSJS. JI 1 developn1.ent of the team., Which requires that games should be secured progressive~y, more and 1nore hard, leading by easy stages to the last and more irr1portant contests of the season. The schedule was an injustice to the team, for it was due to this that the team suffered defeat by a team nnlch its inferior. Such an injustice ·deserves criticism .. '' Dr. r_rowne-\There are a number of reasons for this success. F1rst, the team was coached by the best n'1an Union has ever known. His influence and pei·sonal rr1agnetisn1. held sway over each and every IneJnber of the team. \Seeond the tean1-work was of a very high order. 1\i[:lsundt=.!rstandh1gs were practically unknown qualities. \Third the team was in unusually good physical condition. \Fourth the snap and speed with which the felloWi3 got under way. \Fifth we- hi.td a good captain. He was fair and honest and played an important part in leading the tt~a111 on to such a glorious ending. \Sixth there v.ras a very large amount of avail- able 1naterial. Never did a day go ,bY but that seyerat candidates could be found waiting along the side-lines. \fh_~ the scrub was of a very superior order. The 'A 11 Americans' surely come in for their share of th'3 credit. \Last but by no means least, comes the knowl- edg3 that the Inanager did his work well and sur- cessfully.\ Prof. Opdyke-\A successful season, whether in football, in baseball, or in track athletics never comes as the l'esult of one cause alone, but one thing there is, that contributes as much, perhaps, as any other to victory; and of this, the season just finished has been a good exan1ple. The team has had college backing. Not only has there been plenty of competition for positions so that it was an honor to gain and keep a place on the team but the student body as a whole has been unfail- ingly loyal in its support. The small college is doulJlY -vveak without this, but doubly strong with it.' 1 Capt.- Patton-\This football season has been one of the n1ost successful seasons the coHege has had since the recognition of football as a part of the college life in ''86 or '87. 'l,he success is due to many rt!asons. The main ones are· the coach, the train- ing t.a ble and the scrub. Bill Smith as a coach for a Union season cannot be beaten. He understands the conditions and the fellows and sends every man on the team into each game prepared and ·willing to do or die. \No 1nan was seriously hurt during the season. ThPre \vere thirty-five n1en on the squad. These were out so regularly that on no afternoon was the tean1 iu need of substitutes or a good strong scrub. The ilnportance of the scrub was clearly shown before the last game, when it was found that N. Y. Manager ·L. L'- Odell U. was playing a formation, which the 'VarRitY was not fainiliar with, the All An1ericans played this for1nation and, although there was snow, ice and 111 ud on the field all week, by their faithfulness in coming out made this game an easy 1natter. \Taken as a whole, the schedule \vas a good one, having six games at home and all with colleges of our own size, except Columbia. The Columbia garne is ilnportan t, as it gives the tea1n the best ex-11ericnce at the best time, and allows the Union

lw to do rl y ( ·<1, 11< Yl·lopnlOit of the tl'<tlll, 'i\·hil'h l'l'<l\UircR that ~·:1 illL ·s sl1c, u 1<1 bv ~l' cu n·d progTe~s i Y v ly, lll<ll'L' a 11<1 Jl\('l'l' h<ll'<1, 1P<H1ing 1JY ert~Y st<lW'~ to thv last alH1 IIH>l'l' important coiJtt:stR of thv st·ason. The nn1d1 itf' inferim·. t'l'i ticiPm.\ Jlr·. rl'O\\\lll'-''ThvJ'(' Hl'<' :l llUlllhl'l' of l't•.a ~ollS for lw~t 111<111 1'nion ha~ t'Yt>J' l<~:!iOWll. His inllu<·JH'C ~lll<l ]H'l'Silll<.ll 11t.lg·llvtl~l1 1 }H-'l\1 ;-nV<tY 0\ l'l' t><l<.'h illll1 t•\'t·I·~· 1l1<'1111lt>I' of tht• tt•:.un. \\\«..'l'l \ pntct ka ll y llill\ 11< l \VU q11alit iPS. \rl'llil'il tllt• t<'<\!11 \\'<IS ill llllllSU:dJ;\· g'llOd phy~\<'i\l C< 1 llC lit iolt. ''Fittll, W<· hul a e,·<HHl t·:.q;taill. Ht• v-;;ts f<liJ' ;tll<l llt,ll\'St <tJid ll<lYt''l :tu impol'l:tJlt pa1·t i11 l·.·;Idirw; \~i:--tll. th<'l'l' \\·<t:-; <1 \'t~ry ];trg·t· :tmount <>f :t\';ti\- :ll•k n;:ltt·ri<tl . .:\l'\'l'l' <li•1 :1 da~· go ,bY llut that ~··\·t·r·:Jl <·:tllllid;tt(·'; <'~lul<\i lH· i'<lUIJd waiting ;tlong tJH• ~i<l••-1iiH'~. \Last hut hy 110 TI1t•an:-; lva~t. eonH·s tlw l<nowl- <·tlg• that tht• lll:Ulag·t·r <1id lli:-; \\.oJ·].;: wl'!l :111<1 ~llt'- < I ~~~ ru IJ~· ... t 'l't lL n l Hl:,:kv-\ ~\\ ~ll('l'«..'~:-;ful ~t·a~< Ill, wlwt lwr in ftHlil>all. in h<t~('h,Jll. m· i11 tr:wk athldil'~ IW\'t•r COlll< ·~ (\:.; th<• J't'~lllt of Olll' C<lllSl' <l lollt', hut Oil<' thi11g tl!Pl'<' is, th:1t voutrihut<·s a~ JllUt·h. J~t·rh:tp~. ;1~~ allY ('tlwr to \'idory; :llld of tlli~. tlw ~~·;t~<lll ju~t fi;!i:-;111'<1 hns lH't'll a go<Hl vxampk. Tilt• tt•:llll ll:1:.; h:ul <'ollc·!..!;t• h;wking. ::\Pt only ha~ til: 1·•· ll.'t'll l'ltl, t~· of t'.<>lllPl'ti tion f<11' 1·osit ion:-; ~o tht t it ,,-,1~ : 11 ~ ll < 1 11 <> r t () ga i 11 a n < l k < • t • p a pl:t < • t • o11 t 11 t • t < ·: 1 1 11 but tlit' ~tudt•JJt ]HHly a~ a \\'holt· lw~ lH't'll unt'ail- Tht· ~J.nall t'<lllt·g·,. i~ tloulJI:'-' \\l':tk without this. hut doubly ~tl'<lllg· \'.'it h it.\ <':tpt. Patton-\Thi~ foolb:dl ~<'<!SOil lla:-; lH't'll o1w II t·tdlt•f.c.'t' l;k ill':-.\!) <ll' ':--.7. Tlw ~lltTt'S~ i~ du·.· til Jll<tn:: 1 ( ((~{lll~. Tilt• lllHill Oil!':,-.; (\]'t• tilt• l'il:ll'h, tlll' l ]';till- ing· l;iJ.}~· ;lllll tht• :-'t'l'll1l. J\jJl ~111ilh :1:-: <l 1'11(\l'h f<IJ' :t t'!JiOil ~~ <l~tlll t'<lllllOl }H· lll'<t1t•ll. ll\' llltdt•]'~;t:tl\lb t1H· t·onditioll~ ;tlld tht• t't·ll<l\\:-; ;tJld ~t'ild~; t·\·t·ry lll<lll <lil tlw tt·:Ull illt<> ~-~u·ll g:·tlllt' pn·J :tn·'l :tltd \\' ill i j 1 ~~· t ( I d () () J' ( li ( ', \:\o 1ll<tl1 \V:t~ ~t·J'i()u~ly hurt dl!l'ill~· tilt· :-:•·:t;.-.;1111. Tht·n· \'.t'l't· thirty-li\t· lll!'ll t>ll tl~t· :-:'ill:td. 'Tht·Si' \Y<·r·<· ()ll1 ~o rt·t.?,·ularly th:lt <lll 1111 :tt'l•·l'lliHlil \\:t~ th•· t:·:llll itt llll'd <It' ~uh~titut~·~ <It' :1 !.!.'IHld :-:tl'llll.!.. s:·t·ull. Tht• inq•ort:tlH'<' of t.L<· ~~·I·uh \\:t~ ,.J :11ly ~l!t>\\'11 l)l'ftll't' tlH· Ja:-;t gaJllt', \\'ht·ll it \\'<IS f(ltll\tl tll:tl ~·~. Y. Manager L. L'- Odell l. w:t:.; ]d<l~.'i.Jtg· <·I t'onn:ltitlll, \\hkll til•· '\':tr~it:-,· w<~:-: not l':tllJiliar witl1. lll•' .\11 .\Jtlt rit-:t!t~ ]'l:t.'·,·d this !'ornt:\ti(lll <11111. alll1tllP..?.Il tllt'l't• \\·;~~ ::-:lJcl\\·, i<'l' h:1\'i11g· ~ix g-:llllt'~ :tt h<lllH' :111tl :dl \\ith c<>llt•g\·:-; of (llll' ()\\'11 ~izt•, <'X<'•'l't ('tdlllllllia. Tilt· ('(lltllnld:t g', l l lll' i:-; i Ill }II l l' t :II l 1 , :l ~ it g i\. l ':-; tllt • 1t •; I Ill l h t • ll t • ~ l

I2 THE ,COJ{CORDIENSIS. alurnni to see in person our faults in the beginning of the year; then at the end in the N. Y. U. gam,e thE'Y see how much the tean1. improves. This year they \Yel.~P not disappointed in either game. ;'The team fought for every inch they lost and played their hardest where most teams would have gone to pieces.\ THE RECORD. Sept, 24.-Columbia vs. Union at New York, 10-0. Cct. 1.-E.dison Club vs. Union at Schenectady, 0-12. Oct. 8.-Rochester vs. Union at Schenectady, 6-5. Oct. 15.-Hamilton vs. Union at Clinton, 5-0. Oct. 22.-R. P. I. vs. Union at Schenectady, 0-21. Oct. 29.-Rutgers- vs. Uni'on at Schenectady, 0-35. Nov. 5.-Trinity vs. Union at Schenectady, 0-22. Nov. 8.-Middleburg vs. Union at Schenectady, 0-41. Nov. 19.-N. Y. U. vs. Union at New York, 0-21. Points scored-Union, 157; Opponents, 21. SCRUBS. Dubbed the \All-Americans\ by the student body, the band of players familiarly known as the \Scrubs\ has proved its right to share and share largely too, in the glories of the football season just passed. A team can be composed of the best possible material but what can it accomplish unless there is a good, earnest second team to combat it every day? On Union's squad this year there were about fifteen or twenty men who realized that they could not n1.ake the team yet day after day found them on the campus, in the process of being battered and hammered by the Varsity, their only thought being to aid in getting the reg- ular line-up in shape for the next contest. It was the scrub team which had to suffer defeat after defeat in order that the Varsity might get the experience. The squad this year was the largest in years. It has been a long time since Union has sent thirty men out to her football field every day. Last year the team often had to go through signal Captain F. C. Patton practic8} merely because· there wasn 1 t a second team at hand. This season there were always two full teams on the field and often three. It is difficult to give a correct line-up because in several instances regular Varsity men alter- nated, as in the cases of Becker and Raymond, who played fullback on the scrub, MacNab and Robinson each played about the same number of Varsity games.

T'HE CO .. VCORD!Ei\TS!S. I'J E\lvin J. Becker, who gave so much attention to the scrubs has been. called \Capta..i·n'' of Union's \All-American'\ team and as such b:a..s been hailed as one- of the savioars of the Garnet on the gr-td- iron and his 'name has been cheered along with Patton's, Doc. Towne's .and Bill Sm:Lth's. CHEERING. When a team. realizes that its €very play is being followed with keenest interest by an enthu- siastic crowd of supporters who manifest their hearty appreciation by continued systematic cheering and spirited, snappy siNgi:ng, every man on the team. is nerved to play his best game. No one realizes this better than Bill Slllith, who made it a point to get the students and Glee Club out on the bleachers to practice songs and yells dur- ing the varsity practice. Union has always shown :plen.ty of yeHing ability; even in ttmes of bitter defeat consistent hearty cheering has been Inaintained to the end. But the singing by the student body at many a game has been shaky, to say the least. During the last season there has been some improvem.ent. The gift of new bleachers, on \\vhich the men bunch together, has been a marked help, and the awakening of the Glee Club has helped some, too. During the last few games the s{udents were enabled to do some good work in the singing line. And toward the end of the seas()n the che€ring THE PRESS. Not satisfactory can be generally said of the newspaper accounts of the Union football games both at home and abroad. Even the general style of play as described was inaccurate and once at least the score of a game was reported wrongly through the papers. The Brooklyn Eagl-e was perhaps the fairest to Union and the most accurate in its accounts. The Herald gave the longest accounts but made many minor reports of detaHs of the game which were not true. The Rochester De,mocrat also had in- teresting stories of the Union games but could not always be depended on for faithful details. Less space was given by the Tribune, Sun and Times. With a press club in full swing next year, better, fuller and more regular accounts of Union's foot- ball season should be seen in the papers. The alumni in New York City complain that, even when there are several Union men on staffs of the dailies there, they cannot obtain enough desir- able material in the way of news from the college to make satisfactory reports of the athletic doings here. The student body will do well to give this more attention next year. Supplying newspapers with football information of Union needs the efforts and backing of more than one, two or three men. NEXT YEAR. improved also; so that the yelling and singing together with the brass band at the last game Very i<'w men will be lost from this year's team. was satisfactory. Those that graduate in June are Patton, tackle; But this improvement came too late; the first Raymond, fullback; Becker, fullback; and Kluge, games of the season are the ones in which fine guard. Norwood, '06, has already proven his worth cheering and singing c.ount for m.ost. as a guard, and conseCJuentlY only two positions FEAREY bas shoes a man isn1't ashamed to wear. 230 State Stf-, Schenectaay. $3.50 ~--~--------------------·--------------------~-----

I i ,. ) ' ~ !i' '4 THE CON.CORDJEN.SIS. ·will need to be filled, narnely, tackle and fuHback. 'J.:'aking into consideration the excellent string of ~:ubstitutc·s and secon•d tea::tn men of this last sea- rno11Py we h'ope to have a professional trainer. There has been a litUe difficulty in securing the right kind of games-doubtless due to the team's son and counting on the usual amount of good rna- success this yea.r.. However, partial agreements terial in the incoming cJass, the coach and captain should have H ttle difficulty in filHng t:hese two positions with able men. ITa vlng the experience of two seasons behind it and the tfa111 work so excellently deveLoped by a season of offensive play, it can be safely -said that have been nmde with four coJ::leges.\ There are many thing about this Last season that ~hould serve as lessons to Captain Dann .and his team. He can improve on several phases of the work last fall. Aided by his coach, his ability to perceive and incorporate these j1nprovements VARSITY AND SCRUB th.e tean1 of 19C5 shall have a splendid chance to be successful. Capt. Dann seems to have the necessary con- fidl·nce alrEady, for he says: ''Next year we stand a chance for even a better team iha n this year. If we have any S()rt of a fn·shrnan class, we ought to do wonders.\ Le Van Barnes, who will manage the team for next season, says: \My opinion of the prospects for next year is that they are better than they were for this. There is a vossH1ili ty of receiving a liberal contribution from the New York alumni. With this extra in the work of his own team will count a great deal in determining the success of the 1905 season. A fund for th0 assistance of 11eedy students at the Unive-rs•ity of lVI:ichigan has been es•tablished by the graduating class of 1903 in the literary and engi- neering dep::.:_rtinE·nts. The funds will be loaned to n-ee•ly stud~nts at a low rate of interest and on long·-tim.E: r;.otes. * * * * 'I'here js only one \co-ed\ in the freshman clas!9 at WeBleyan.

THE CON,CORDIENSIS. I5 THE STREN:U,OUS LIFE. 'The hockey rink at Williams has been com- P'leted. It will be flooded in a :few days when practice for the team wil'l be begun. * * * * Amherst is to build a seventy foot swimming pool in a structure adjoining the gymnasium. b This was made possible through the gift of two alumni. * ;J: * * Burr Mcintosh, the proprtetor of the Burr Mc- Intosh monthly and a graduate of Lafayette Col- lege has agreed to give $50,0,0@ to that college for a new gymnasium as soon as the subscription list of his magazine numbers 150,000. To insure this number he has taken out a life insurance policy in the Mutual Life Co. for $50,000 the premium of which will be $1,500 and which will be paid in the following manner: From every three dollar subscription received, one dol- lar will be laid aside for the premium. He ex- pects in this way to receive aid from alumni and also from the undergraduate body. * * * * Announcement has been made officially that a freshman had been expelled from Princeton Uni- versity for viola,.ting the \honor system.\ At a recent examination he attempted to secure out- side aid which was noticed and reported to the student tribunal. Investigation was made in the undergraduate court, and a req_uest for his im= mediate expulsion was submitted to the faculty. This is the first breach this year of the honor system, which has been in operation at Princeton over 10 years. * * * * We~~leyan ·won the annual debate ·with Wlllian1s at Willia.m.~stowln. The question was: \Resolved 'That the gover1nnent of territories and of alien peoples l>y th~ Pre~ident and Congress· of the United Stat~s unrestrained and unqualified by the , . \:F\. . .· ~ TIFF ANY & CO. ·~ Jewelers to College Men. * * * * Designs and estimates furnished for Fraternity Pins, Class Rings, Class Cups, Stationery, Etc. * * * * 't No order can be accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy to bear the name of the House. UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK '\ ~respondence In:i~ed~ ... I I I Federal Constitution necessarily will be 1 injurious ~o our repuL•lica.n institutions and to our forn1 of government.\ .P1·esident :Hopkins of \tVilliam.s. ten- clered the tt'am. and judges a rece•ption. after the de,- bate. * * * * Dr. T'horn:::ts :\I. D·rown, pres·1c1en t of Lehigh Uni- versity, rlied. at his home, in South Bethlehem, Wednesday rnorning, November 23. President Drown submitted to a surgical operation last week, ana his. condition eontinued critical until the tilne of his death. * * * * An organzation known as the Colgate 'L'niversi ty D'ebate Counril ha8 hPE:n formed to re·present debate interests at Colgate and to arrange and control g!l intercollegiate debat~s. The Council is. con1po.-1ed of t\7\'0 cl..elegate~ frmn each of the college d~bating stocieties. * * * * lVDm·gan Hall, the largest and newest of the dor- Hl!itories conncct<~U. with. \\7\TilliaJTIJS College, was darnaged to the extent of $21,000 Thanksgiving D·ay by a fire that started fro·nl a. cigarette dl'opperl

THE STRENUOUS LIFE. The hockey rink at \\rillian1s has bc~n co111- 11ldcd. It ·will be flo<H1L'(1 in a few dnys when practice for the tean1 ·will be DL'gun. Am.herst is to build a scYPnty foot SY\·in1ming pool in a structure· adjoining the gyrnnasium. This was 1nade possible through the g·ift of two alumni. * * * * Burr Mcintosh, the proprietor of the nun· 1\Ic- Intosh monthly and a graduate of Lnfa;')TL'Uc C<ll- lege has agreed to giye $50,000 to t1u1t college f<H a new gymnasium. as soon as the subscrir1tion list of his magazine nutnbers 150,000. 'l'o insure this n1.nnber he has taken oat a life insurance policy in the l\Iut ual Life Co. for $50,000 the prC'1niun1 of whieh will lJc $1.ri00 an<1 which ·will be paid in the following nl<tlllll'l': From lar will be lai<l aside for the p1·cn1iu m. He c-x- poets in this way to receive ai <1 fronl al u 111 ni a 11<1 also frotn the undergraduate 1Joc1y. * * * * Announcement has been n1a<lc offic'iaJ!y that a fresh1na11 had been cxpc-lle(1 fl'oln Prim·t·ton 1)ni- versity for violating the \honor systcn1.\ ...,\ t a. recent exan1inat.ion he attcn1IJteL1 to ~cL·un' out- si<le aid which ·was noUcec1 a.1Hl rcportc d io the student tribunal. Investigation was mfH1c in the undergrauuato coud, and a rc·qucst fot~ his im~ mcuiate expulsion was subm ii il'<1 to the fneulty. This is the first brcal'h thi:.-4 yl'al' of tlH' hnnnr systmn, which has been in opvntiion at Pl'ilH't't'm over 10 years. * * * * [lt \\Ti1licunsto\\·n. Tlw qw•..;titlll \\\<1~: \Il(·~ll!Y That the g'PV<·r:lPW11t (lf 1l•JTitnrit·s nnd <lf al:··ll I_) lj;\~ =i::(;,: ~r TIFF ANY & CO. t~~ Jewelers to College Men. * * * * 1) c signs a n d est i n1 ate s f u r n ish c d for Fraternity Pins, Class 1\.ings, Class Cups, Stationery, Etc. * * •'• .,. * :\'o order can be accepted ft>r ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best worktnauship and a quality worthy to bear the name of the I I ousc. c :\ I()~ s (_] l T i \ R E, NE\V \T()l\.K. ~ Corresl)l>t1Ll e11 cc ~ ~8 1.--& <) ~~~3>C Invited. ~';<)\'i·n·Jn•·ut.\ I'Jt·~idt·Jlt ll<qd·:ill~ ()r \\.i1li:u:· .. :-: tt·.i-· tlt•rt•d thl' t,·;tul :u1d jwl!.!.·\~ a l't't't'ldi•ll.l :l!'lt·r tlll· d··· 1 1:l t C\. * lH'0\\11 SUlllllitl··d Ill :l :--.;ll'gi.-:11 tllH'l':ltitl]} Lt:-;t \\\t' ·l.z. <lllti hi-.; t•tJ!ldit :u11 1 tl 1 l\i::Ul'd l·ritit-<ll lllllil tllt' tiillt' sot ·i l't i es. * * * ...

·, lj \\ill lll't·d t<• ht· lilkd. JJ.tlllt l,\·. t;H·klv and fulll><tt·k. T:ild11g illl<l <':llt::-.i<l<•J';dillll tht· t·X<'l'llt•JJt ~tring of Hlll:-:!itllt•·~ :tl,d ~t'<'<Pld tt·:tm l11l'll of this la~t ~t'<t­ :-:111'1 :tl!t1 t'1,lltiti:•.!.2.· oil th\ tl..;ual ;niwunt of g-no(1 Inn- tt-;·ial in t!.t· iL<'<lltlint~· ('l;t~s. tht· coal'11 :t11d ('<tpt:titl sh,lltld ILt\'t· !ltt],· diflit-ult~· i11 tilling thl·se tv·;o 1 l ( : s i! i (HI:; \\ i t h ; I I d l' lilt' 11, }!;; \'illg· l ht• l'Xjll'l'it 1 1l't' 11! t \\'tl St•;tS()IJS llt•hind it iilld t!Jt• l< illll \\'()! k SO t'XI't•Jlt•!Jt]y dt•\'t•]()jil'!] ])y Cl St';\:-'llii <•!' lltlt·L~i\·,· pJ<ty, it l'.illl llt• Silfl•ly S<titl that lll<llh':-· \•\l' h<>;w t<> ha\'v a J>roft•ssional t1·ainor. Tllt'l''' h:ts lll·l'Il a Iittlt> tlifficulty in sc·c·uring tlu• ri~d1i ki1:d of f?:<tnH·s-doulltlvss dtll' to the team':::; ~:u~·~·~·~;s tlli~ Yt'<:ll'. HoWP\'L-'1', partial agn•enwnt:::; b:t\'t• ]J:·t·li 11lctd:· 'v\'ith fOUl' {'O]]pgt'S.\ Tlwn· nrt· llWIJ~· thing alJ()ut this last st·ason that sh()u ld ~~·r·H· tts ll'ssons to Captain Dann and his ll'(ll1l. Hv l'Hil impl'O\'l' Oil SC'\'l'l'Hl vhases of thl' work la:-;t fall. .• \i<h'<l hy hi~ conl'h, his ability to 1 )(•n·l'in• a 11 < 1 in em· porn tL' tht'SC' .iinprovemcnt~ VARSITY AND SCRUB t!J,. tr·.tl:J t>! I~H~, sL:tl! ]~;l\t• ;~ S]l]t•JJdid dl:tll!'t' to 1>:· ~;I i'. ( ., ':-;:-:I ll J. <';qd. Tl,ttJ;I ~t·t•lJJ~ to ll:t\'t• th<· ll!'<'(•:-:~<tr·y <'Oll- firktw.· ::ll't .tdy, fnr l:t· s::y-.:: .. .:'\\ r • x t y 1 ·: t r \\ < • s t : 1 1 1 d .t < • J 1 :1 1 w < • for· t • \ • t n a 1> d t < ·r I•·;I.Jll lliilll tlli:~ _\'(•:tt'. If \\'c• !l:l\'1' <lll.\' Slll'l or :t i'rc·:~Lni:III <'Lt:-:!--', \\.t' l'u.~·llt tt> do \\'<lll!lt·!'s.\ fp \':111 l:ill'll!':-:, \\'II() will lll:IJ!,lg't• th<· lt•<llll f()J' \.\J_\· l:f,ild()IJ t)j' tilt· ]ll'li!\}H'<'lS f11r II!'Xl ,\'!'ill' is t!J:tt tll<y <tn· h·tf<·r thilli th•·\· \\<'l't• f'o1 tlli:-:. Th<•J't' is a J~~~'·:~:ldlit:.· of l'<'<'r·i\·itJg il IiiH·J';tl t·oJJll'ilnlti()JJ fl'lllll t]J;· ;,;<'\\ York :ilunllii. \\.ith this c·xtra in tlw \V()l'k of his own t<·am will count a gn·at dvnl i11 ddt'l'l1lilliiig the sLH.'CL·:-:s of the 1~05 ~l'<lS<lll. ..-\ ftl!ld ft.J' tlJr• <1.!-'Si:-:l;tiH'.{' of llPl'd.\·~tW]t•IJts a1 tht.' l'tli\·,·r:-:ity ()f ~\lir·llig·a11 lw:-: 1WI'JJ t•stahlis.}It·c11Jy the ~·.rurllt<dillg· ,-~a:-: . ...; '•f l~lll:l i11 tlw lit<·J·;u·y and Pngi- 'Jt•t·J·iJ:.~· d<'J•:'!'llJJ.< ut~. Tilt• fn11d~ will }H• }()~tJlt'cl to !l<'<··!:.· :-:1 udr·l'l ~; :tt ~~ ]ll\\' l'att qf illtl·n·~t and <ill ]11!\g·-tilll<· LCJ[<·.~. * * * :j. T 11 1 • I'{' i ~ o 1 Jl y 1 > 11 P • 't • < > - < • d \ i 11 t h P f n ·:..: h m a 11 ('} a .-> .,, ~\t \\.t·!-lt>.\':lrt.

TH~-- (,\ONCORDIENSJS. in a room on the second floor. T'hi~ i:s the first serious fire which the collE'ge bui1dings. ha.ve suif- fered ~ince 1841, ·when East CoUeg.e vvas. des.troyed. T!:le loss tu tlle college is covered by insurance. Morgan Hall was built in 18~2, during form.er Pres.idr:nt CartGr'~• adm .. inistration, anc1 was the gift of Ex-Goyernm· :Morgan of New York stat€. * * .. -.. * It is annonncPd Lbat an entirely nevv scl1:edu'le .of rec:taUo1:s IYill go .into effect next faH at Trinity. Jn orc'.er to lf·ssc-n the n un'1ber of conffi:ets which ~he pr(~sent sclleuule entails, recitations' 1vill be ar- r:tngec1 for ~at11rd2y till 1 p. 111. T'his w'il'l not in-- volve any qfl.ditional 1vork in any of the course~·. t.ut thos-2 who have hours on Saturday will :ill.nd their scheduks n1arle 8asier in the e:::~.rly :part of the \Veek. At prel::l.ei:t the only otter college in NtW :B~ngland ··which does not hold recitations on Satur- day i~ vVes1~yan, and it is. \Vestleya.n'.s int€ntion to ad•)pt the schen1e within a yery fevv years. * :;: * * ALL DEPENDS ON THE PLAYER. Our purpose is to give, if poss-ible, an inkling to a great fact which only the yea:_rs ,can. force home, that not all college rewards or victories are worth the winning, and many a loser of them wins the game. -Yale Alumni Weekly, BOSTON ONE PRICE CLOTHING HOUSE CLOTHIERS, FURNISHERS, HATTERS, TAILORS. 322 State Street LUNCH Cuisine and Service Strictly First Class Schenecta..dy, N. Y. l\4ichigan· has 15,0!00 living alumn;, the larges-c nu;mber of ::tny university in the United States; H.arvard ha.s 14,0'00', and Yale 11,.000. COLLEGE B:OOKSTORE (:) 0 0 Show your College Spirit by giving it your patronage. @ Orders Attended to Promptly. W. HUNT: '0'5 Silliman Hall A. L. 0¥/ENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, N. Y. CO~LLEOB uOWNS, CAPS The Best Workmanship at Lowest Prices Silk Faculty Gowns, Hoods COX SONS & VINING 262 Fourth Ave., NEw YoRK ~obson a/Idee BO:OKMEN. SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA RESTAURANT One of the Finest Equip.ped Restaurants in the State BRANCHES JOB State ..J'treet OPEN Day and Night CLOSED Sunday During Church Hours 10 to 12 A. M., 7 to 9 P. M, 171-173 Clinton Street High School, Nott Tel'l'ace General Electric Works Parties wishing tahle resen.'e<l or the 11se of private dining room may do EH> by telephoning head waiter (uo extra charge).

THE CONCORDlENSfS. 17 Collegemen find a grateful degree of comfort and service in the Brighton Flatc Clasp Garter. Now worn by near::: ly two million men. Made ft,om one piece of pure silk webbing with nickel trimmings that cannot rust. Price 25c. at stores or by mail. PIONEER SUSPENDER C()., 718 Market Street, l\>hiladelphia. :M:11.kers o~ Pioneer Suspenders. .ftrthur J. llJhite Successor to MacLean ··3he College PhotographerHJ Liberal Discount to College lVIen. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. 5 492 Home p,l\_one { 47 m H •. R. D - ... - R u·GsPi])es,Cigars • Lowne_Y's Candies Anythtng · and Everything OPEN ALL NIGH'F REYNOLDS CORNER STATE STREET · · t AND TtlE RAILROAD John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE .... MERCHANT TAILOR 35 'Ka.iden Lane Albany, N.Y. CHA~s. HoLTZMANN & SoN 2'59 STATE STRE:ET Hawes Hats are the ideal ·college Men's Hats. In buying them we had the men of Union College in mind~ We have s1tapes that will :please you college men. They are $3.00, with ou.r usual college discount. cA.]. f)l]cGEE SnccesRor to GERARDUS SMITH Dealer in COAL AND WOOD Telephone 321 140 South Centre St. Schenectady, N. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S GREATEST STORE HEADQUARTERS FOR Men's Furnishinas of all Kinds t::> Special Prices to Students f. A. RICKARD & Co. Spo~ting Goods 253 State Street Schenectady

I8 AD V ER TJSEJI!!ENTS. Electric :Lightin.g Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Powe.r Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. Sales offices in aU the large cities of t11e United States. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. BOWLS MADE IN FRANCE Pipes Repalr~d EYRES, Society Florist. FLORAL EMBLEMS ARRANGED IN ARTISTIC STYLES. T'H·OUSANDS OF ROSES, ·CARNATIONS AND VIOLETS ALWAYS ON HAND. :1 No. Pearl St. Tel. 208. Albany, N. Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK, VEAL, LAMB, HAM~ BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty GR . UPE THE FLORIST, t 42_6 STATE STREET Supplies Flowers for Bans, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New Y ark. S ~henecta<ly \Vorks, l:::lchenectady, N. Y. Brooks Works, Dunkirk, N.Y. Pittsburg \Vorks, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. Cooke Works, Paterson, N.IJ. Rhode Island Works, Providence, R. l. · ' Dickson Works, Scranton,! Pa. Manchester Works, Manchester,~N .lB. Locomotive & Machine Co. Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE.

ADVERTISEMh\NTS. C£he Gazette {s easl[J the foremost· cla.lly in Schenecta.dJ. -PRINTERS' INK, Aug. ao, 1904 Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telephone 425 General Office 420 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six Formalities, THE 'VARSITY MAN WHO WEARS \ST:EEFEL\ QUALITY CLOTHES HAS THE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRIED. STEEFEL BROTHERS 78-80-82 State Street Albany, N.Y. James H. Barhyte Lucas W. Devenpeck Barhyte & Devenpeck Wholesale & Retail Deale1·s Coal and Mason Supplies Telephones 242 & 242-2 Office 306 Union St. Sc~enectady, N. Y. CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE New York ·city {!;HE course c~vering four years _begins duFing the ·first week tn October and continues until June. A preliminary training in natural science is of great advantage. AH the classes are divided in small sections for recita- tion, laboratory and clynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the required examinations. The successful completion of the first year in any College or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory stand- ard ·is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annual announcement giving full particulars will be mailed on application. . WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D., DEAN, Cornell University Medical College, 27th and 28th Streets and 1st Avenue, N.Y. City Telephone• H. R.. 745-.A Home 792 IOl North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union Oollege-'92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Cornell Univ:ersity-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. Colgate University-'94. '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Williams Oollege:__'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02. Governor's Mansion-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01; '02, '03. EDWIN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCurler, Ja.y Street BATHS~ Razors Honed The best equipped shop in the city. All modern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successo1· to R. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steamship Aa&ency lll State Street · Schenectady, K. Y. WOOD 'BROTHERS· MEN'S FURNISHERS 265 STATE STREET Fine Dress Shirts in Manhattan and Monarch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and }.iallory Hats. Crawfory and Foreu1ost Sl1oes. Home Steam Laundry. I I' i l 'l • I . .l .\ ; I : l . J \ -.I 'l : j I \ I i ; I I I : \ : '!

., ; . ' . I THOSE NEW CLOTHES ~E have just what you want--the kind that pleases the most ~ particular dressersG Ours is an enormous collection of fine Suits, Overcoats, Fur Coats and Raincoats. Every garment is new--made from throughly reliable fabrics and cut in the most approved styles. The prices are so low that everybody can afford to buy their clothing of us. You will never rnake a mistake if you wear our clothes. '· We are also showing a very attractive assortment of Hats, Caps, Gloves, Neckwear, Shirts, Collars, Cuffs, Sweaters, Underwear, Hosiery, Etc. Store doses 6:oo p. m. Saturdays ro: 30 p. m. BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. &hi§ *IN iWii!!RS&rl • m &\''F\!t1 PWP &WIIMJWMI\ w 467 State St. Schenectady STULL BROS. 467 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN IiABERDASliERY CUSTOM TAILORING The 1904 College M.en will wear THE 3 INCH FOUR-IN-HAND . THE LARGE ENGLISH SQUARE The bigness and fullness that characteriz~·d clothes last season are just as noticeable features of the fashions for Autumn and Winter . Coats will be 29 J inches in length Gloves, Hosiery,. Night Shirts, with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in Pajamas, Shirts, Collars and length. . Cuffs, all strictly high-class goods Plain and fancy browns are the E·verything new. latest shades. The particular dresser comes to Shirts and Pajamas made to us, for we dtess him in a partic-w ~~~~~--~e----------------~~-~~j _____ u_I_~~-:-~-u~~~-,·----- .. +-••n~s•---e---~---w--

