••• - ... .. Md& ., 8 4 + + + + THE + + + + CONCORDIENSlS NUMBER 7 NOVEMBER 5, 1904 - .. COtt.e·.. .. - · - ··· G~i ·L· ·IB··~- · · CO. · .. · · n:ARy · LlEQ· .. 1:::'· u. · ··· ·.·· ~ _ ·· .. --. .-.I'LL _ : f ·,. '~·- -· ........ PUBLISHED WE'EKLY BY TI-IE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVE·RSITY

2 ADVERTISEMENTS''. U . u . •t nton · ntverst y. ANDREW V. V. RAYMOND, R D., Ll. D., PRESIUENT. UNION COLLEGE, BOHENEOT .AD·Y, .N. Y. I. ·Course 'Leading to the Degree of A.. B. 2. Course :Lea.ding to the Degree CJf B. S. l. Cou:rse :Leading to the .Degree of Ph. B. 4. Genera.), Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 6. Electrica.l Course Leading to th.e Degree of B. E. This di:ffers f:vom course 4: in substituting special work in Electrieity and its applieations, in. place ef some ·Of the General Enginooring studies. This eourse is offered in co-operation wi-th the Edison General Electric Company, un- der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree . of C. E.-A course of one year offered te graduates of courses 4:, 5 or 5. For catalogues er for speeial information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita- tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Pratical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full information, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany. N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Schooi.-This department of the university\ is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B., is two years, eaeh year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, W. R. DAVIDSON, Secretary Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. :;, Exercises held in Albany Medical College Building. For catalogue 11.nd information address. Tl:IEODOBE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N. Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. . F. C. KRUEGER & CO. The Up-to-date Gro~ery House FULL AND COMPLETE ·LINE OF GROCERIE'S AND PROVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their Season. l42 & l44 STATE STREET. Dr. St. Eltno N. Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State and Clinton Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BONBONS and CHOCOLATES K.odaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon's The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, Schenectady, N. Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWNS and HOODS to the American Colleges and Unive,rsi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contr<acfs a specialty. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 237 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. =-- 1 Wm E

ADVERTISEME1VTS. 3 THE TENEYCK ...6..L:SANY., N- Y- J?os5.. t5.. v-e~y :F'5..:re-~roo:f_ European Plan. 1\fost attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITOL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music during evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. H. J. ROCKWELL ®. SON KEELER'S E\''EOJ?EAN Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Atiacl\ed Wm. U. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507 ®. 509 Broadway •·. THE .·• EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Tlze Largest and Best Appointed Hotel z'n the City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. ~--·--- r--------~- .. The best place for D .·. E.·· _RB' ,y~· CANDIES, TOBACCO I\ ·Ice Creant, Cigarettes 51'1 UNION :ST. S 0 D A, C I G A R S Three blocks from the campus Established 1845 Incorporated 1900 W. & L. E·. ·GURLEYt TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers in America of Field I nstru:tnents for Civil Engineers' and and Surveyors', also makers of Physical and Scientific Instrutnents of all kinds and U. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing Instruments, Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T -squares, Triangles, Curves, Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, l~ ubber, Scientific Books, Anemorneters, Barorneters, Therrnometers, Mag-nifiers, Etc. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by C. GOETZ, Tailor 3 Central Arcade Schenectady, N. Y. --------------------------- E. C. HARTLEY, Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full line of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UNION STREET For Hats, Caps, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases. Etc., go to M~MANN 7 S Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE The L}t.rgest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent ])ancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street Schenectady, N. Y.

,, I•, j: ;:: l:i :; ~ 'I! ;:t u! ;;I ,t; ,jl if: ~ I' !tl H~ ~ t; t•t rl pi ~ l; HI ,, :il j,; l;i li, ! ~; t:l : ~~ t ~~ !i! );I Li ljl .; q~ jl' ll' 'ii !~ ~~ !! I' jl 'l ., ll .~:! l!J ,,, L! :.I ,, !I' I ,;, j;i / ~ i' + ! ~: :.; ·'· n: \ ;~ ,,, ,,. ,,, q i'' ,.,, 1,, :: ; : ~ l 1;, i'. l 'I I I ~( 4- AD VER T1SEME\NTS\. Photographs LEVI 8fJOORE 15 North Pearl Sf 4, Albany~ N. Y: Special R.ates to Students Appointlnents by MaH or Telephone HOPKINS & CO. n We ma.ke our ocwn clothing. n 64 North Pearl ·st. :COLLEGE TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS ALBANY, N. Y. Our fall and winter line of brown suitings and overcoat- ings is now complete in the Custo:m Tailoring, as well as Ready-to-Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be excelled. Suits and Overcoats from $15.00 to $60.00 The Scbenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, ·Class Caps, Canes. Edisol\ Hotel :Building 313 and :SIS State Street cALLEN' S Cf300KSTORE 50& FULTON ST., TROY, ;N.Y. cAll Union Cotlege Text Books Second Hand and New~ in stock Long Distance Telephone LIMMER & EVANS .• Florists .. Dan~urier Q)pera !)ouse LORRAINE BLOCK STATE STREET C. H. BENEDICT TELEPHONE No.JJ5 Both Pilon es Manager ..... - ·- ON In as 1· atte· to ~ on 1 wor essa cha: g1v<: imp littl 11 try, wif gre ger are sta: ty sor: anc ott be~ tio be1 thE of we be Cl ne W< Ot Cl] or

CoNcORDIENSIS ,VOL. XXVIII. UNION CO;LLEGE, NOV. 5, I904. No. 7 ONE SIDE 'OF SETTLEMENT WORK Its Appeal to the College Man In presenting this article on \fresh air\ work, as it is well named, the writer will not make any attempt to 1nass an array of statistics, hut will ai1n to give as silnply as may be a few ohservations on his o-vvn experience during two months of such work in the su1nmer just past. This ai1n will nec- essarily make the recital so1newhat personal in its character; but I trust it will on that account also give the words the stamp of genuineness and the impress of belief, without which they would be of little avail. It is a fact worthy of note that all over the coun- try, wherever college men are thrown in contact with the poverty and ignorance and evil of our great city populations, they are taking an intelli- gent interest and an active part in the efforts that are being m.ade a1nong these people to raise the. standards of life and conduct. It is less than twen- ty years since the experiment which started the soc:ial settlement i.dea was begun in East London; and vet in that brief ti1ne this form of helping . ' others has gained a place in the college world far beyond any other method of servioe. In illustra- tion of this fact one need only point to the num- bers of young men enthusiastically at work along these lines, frmn Harvard in the poor sections of Cambridge and Boston; and from the numerous educational institutions of New York in the slums of that city. Fresh air work, which is only one side o:f the work which a city settlement does, and which is being furthered also by sotne churches, such as the Church of the Sea and the Land in New York, is nevertheless an intensely interesting branch of that work. If one is looking for an opportunity to ·find out by a short experience the fundamental prin- ciples of settlement work, he should give a month or two out of his summer to fresh air work. The wo-rk appeals to n1e because it seetns to be a worthy way of investing influence; it gives a chance to do sotnethjng really worth whil-e. I say \in- vesting influence,\ because it does not mean so 1nuch speaking as doing; there is n1.ore living than preaching,-in fact, preaching does not take much an1ong the boys. The work carries with it the presupposition that one desires to help the boys with whom he works to a higher standard; and I suppose that further presupposes that one can rningle with them, be a \boy among the boys,\ and yet continue to lead them. The settletnent idea, as has been hinted, is to live among the people the life which one believes is the right life, and to so live it that they shall he at- tracted to it and endeavor to live it themselves. And this seems such a natural course in fresh air work. The boys with whom you are to work are away from the ordinary, oftentimes degrading, in- fluences of their city lives, revelling in the freedom and beauty of the country. The boys with whom I worked last su1,nmer were, for the most part, from the slums of Pittsburg,-slums which I am bound to say are probably correctly described as worse than those of New York. As each new party ·would come for its two weeks' outing, I found 1nyself wondering what I had to give them; anc1. each time I would try to live with them in such a way as to help then1. On the day of their arrival I was tempted to look upon then1 in the mass and to notice merely the all too evident n1arks of the.ir surroundings. But, as \Ve proceeded to the baseball field and en- tered into the good old American game with all the zeal of Pittsburg boys, differences began to appear; son1e boys were picked out for their skill in the gatne; other for qualities of leadership, or good nature, or sturdiness, or allnost any of the qualities which go to make up a boy. Then it was that ties of friendship were fonned, and I be- gan to see in almost every one of those boys traits

'\ ' 6 THE CONCOR.D!ElV.SJS. =======================================================================================~- - which I could admire. As the days went on, they were varied by such activities as appeal to an all-round college man. indeed, if I could have closed my eyes to the fact that the hiU on which Lillian Horne stood was not exacdy the hill on which stand ·Old Union's gray walls and to the fa·ct that the lads clustered abot:tt n:Je were under sixteen instead of fellows of my own age, I could well have believed that instead of being an alu1nnus I was again living my four years on the can1J?US. A hot baseball contest would be enlivened by a sturdy cheet· from sixty lusty throats; again, football with punts and catches and rushes would enliven the scene in front of the l1o1ne; or yet again, all hands would enter heartily into athletic contests in which every race was hard fought. And how they did relish a plunge in the pond! Music, too, ca1ne in for a high place in their esti1nation; and they showed allnost collegiate discernn1ent by applauding and promptly learning ''The Dutch Company\ and ''1\tiary Iiad a William Goat,\ You will have noticed that little or nothing has been said of instruction; and that 1neans there was none in a syste1natic way. Of course, it was nec- essary to detnonstrate the fact that the apples or berries on the other side of the fence belonged to the fan11er and not to us, which, by the way, is not always easily understood by the city boy who is having his first experience froM under the police- man's eye. Then, too, there were scraps to settle on principles otber than the one which says that 1night makes right. Son1eti1nes there were bullies who needed to be shown the error of their ways. What I have been trying to show by these rather random remarks is this: Fresh air work (and I belieYe it is typical of settlement work in general) is carried on hy the method of life touching lives and leading then1 upward. To do this effectively the college n~an can bring into play all that is genuine and true in his college life; and all this must be united and directed by the desire not to patronize, but to serve and help. I know of no more wholesome work than the endeavor io inspire in boys true ideas of man- hood; and I know of no more potent method of doing tl1at work than in some such way as I have I des~eribed. Indeed, rn all such efforts to help, w;het11er :by church or settlement, it is the life of strong friemdship that counts. H. A. PEARCE, '03. POLITICAL VIEWS OF TH'E FACULTY Roosevelt the F avori:te At a titne when· every thought centres on e'lec- tion, it is interesting to find out the political pref- erences of men of experience and thought. The following brief state1nents were made by members of our faculty, on being asked the direction of their tendencies and the reasons. Son1e declined to n1ake public their opinions. Dr. Rayn1ond: \I am a Republican from prin- ciple and for that reason vote for the Republican National ticket. I believe in the personal and political integrity of Mr. Higgins and in his ability to adrninister the affairs of the State honestly and in the best interests of the people. In local con- tests I always try to vote for the best .man, irre- spective of pal ty affiliations.\ Dr. Ripton: ''In \vhat direction will my political v·iews turn in this election? Why, right down across the pasture to that little building that is provided for voting, as the law requires. When anyo11e asks my political views, I feel like the 1nan who never 1nentioned Heaven or Hell, for, as he said, he had friends in both places.\ Prt.1f. H offtnan: \I believe in general in the principles of the Republican party; and I think that the policy we have adopted, especially in our foreign relations is vvise and should have the sup- port of the An1erican people at this very critical time in the history of the far cast. I believe that Roosevelt and Fairbanks are thoroughly upright and c.on1petent 1nen, worthy in every respect of ttpholding the offices for which they are candi- dates.\ Prof. Stein1netz: \I will vote the Republican National ticket because, \1. The present adn1inistration has been per- fectly satisfactory and there is no sufficient reason for a change- \z. but that \3· dent. gove Pr Roo: I'm Pr vent polic tion caus the Derr fran] Pr velt, of a: Pr thou very Pt can the P1 ticb a 1n he Am( COUl undc PJ sati~ Rep The PJ lllg PJ a R adm a cr D favc in 1 pres

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 \z. We need a president who is conservative, but who doesn't hesitate to act in the direction that se~ms desirable. Such is Roosevelt--- \3· I do not beHeve in electing a lawyer presi- dent. The law is sufficiently represented in the government by the Supreme Court.\ Prof. Bennett: ''I haven't decided. I don't like Roosevelt arid I don't like the Democratic party. I'm reading speeches.\ Prof. Ashmore: \I am going to vote for Roose- vent partly because he's n1anaged our foreign- policies well, and his election will assure the reten- tion of Mr. Hay as Secretary of State; partly be- cause I believe that the Republican party will, on the whole, do better for the country than the Democratic; and partly because I like Roosevelt's frank, and outspoken character.\ Prof. Hale: \I'm going to vote for Mr. Roose- velt, chiefly because I believe him a ·fine example of an honest rnan in politics.\ Prof. Stoller: \I'm a pretty good Republican, though not a strong partisan; I like the president very much and believe in his policies.\ Prof. Landreth: \I intend to vote the Republi- can National ticket. I think Roosevelt will make the better president.\ Prof. Opdyke: \I an1 supporting the Republican ticket. I have utlnost confidence in Roosevelt as a 1na11, and am convinced that in any emergency he wottld be guided by principles n1ost truly American. ~lso, the great prosperity of the country in recent years has taken place chiefly under Republican ad1ninistration~\ Prof. Ellery: \Roosevelt is my preference. I'm satisfied with the conduct of government by the Republican party in all the years it's been in power. The Democratic party is practically untried.\ Prof. March: \I am a Republican, but I'm go- ing to vote for Parker and also for Herrick.\ Prof. Barnes: \I shall vote for Roos,evelt. I'm a Republican on principle; a1n satisfied with the ad1ninistration, and see nothing to be gained by a change.\ Dr. Towne: \In the National question I am in favor of Republicanisn1. I have utn1ost confidence in Roosevelt and an1 perfectly satisfied with the pres.ent ad1ninistration.\ J\[r. Garis: \I am a Republican, yet favoring Parker, as a safer man for the presidency.\ 1Ir. Cunningham: \I adhere to the Republican patty, but an1 in favor of Parker as a n1an.\ LIBRARY. sa New Books. GarFlett and Go~se. -English Literature, V. 2; 4· Ho:Uand Society of New York. t -Year Book for I904 • .M.os~:ley Educational Commission. -Reports. Newton Theological Institution. -General Catalogue, 1899. New York City. -Report of the Commission on additional Water Supply. Syracuse Univer~ity. Trevelyan. -Alumni Record, 1835-18 99 . -Am,erican Revolution, V. 2, pt. 1 and z. Yale University. -Catalogue of the Officers and Graduates 170I-I904. ' Alumni Alcove. Graham, Henry, '65, of Albany. -Old Truths Newly Illustrated. White, Homer, '61, of Randolph, Vt. -Norwich Cadets. ~Vermont Volunteer. JUNIOR HOP. The fibt of the series of Junior Hops was held at Yates' Boat House last Friday evening, and proved to be a successful and enjoyable dance. Among those present were: Mrs. E. E. Hale, Jr. Mrs. G. W. Featherstonhaugh; Misses Patton, LaDow and Sims of Albany; the Misses Pearson of Hudson· ' Misses E. Yates, Thomson, M. Yates, McMullen, Fur- man, Featherstonhaugh. Osborne, Peck, Ostrom, Schermerhorn, Hardin, Bates, DeForest~ Case, Scherer, Huber and Gilber:t of this city; and Messrs .. Parker, Stiles, Weed, Wiederhold, E. King, Stevens, W. King, Barnes, Brooks, Newbury, Wadsworth, Reeder, Clas- sen, Rider, Waite, Fairbairn, Huston, Osborne, Fran- chot, Richardson, White, Cabot, Gifford, Wright, Vincent, Huppuch, Watson, Halla, Conklin, Waldron· ,. and S. J. Raymond. Parsons furnished the music.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. RESURRECTION A1ND LIFE The :Glee and Instrumental :Clubs are Pros .. pering Under New Management-First Concert Announced One of the most lJOpular departn1ents of college life anywhere, and one which is especially popular at Union because there js no Dratnati,c Assuciation is the Giee Club. There was no glee club 1ast year and consequently there is all th:e more interest in ·== a n1an who is so well versed in n1usic as Mr. Reed. JVIr. Stev-ens, the 1nanager, has had a great deal of experience along- n1anagerial lines and is bound to have a good series of concerts for the club. The Instrun1ental Club is really an adjunct of the Glee Club as it accon1panies it on the tours and the comcerts are joint. This club is con1posed of 20 men1bers and is under the sarne n1anagement and leadership. ?v1eetings are held every Monday night and two The Musical Clubs Watson Marx Read Osborne King L'avies Cantwell Reeder Sterms Spier Richardson Bell Smith Tiffany Bishop Snow Kline Tomlinson RkharJs Schoolcraft Locke Farrington Stevens Fuller Shelley Vrooman Tiedeman Bow:n1an REED, Leader Huppuch Minahan Barnes STEVENS, Manager the one which has been organized this ~11 under the managen1ent of J an1es R. Stevens!\ 'ct~ld the leadership of Byron W. Reed. One of the features of the clHb this year 1s the fact that it is essentially a college production, tnade up of college 1nen and coached by a college 111an. It is custotnary for glee clubs to be trained by ll hours' practice is given. The 1nen1bers of the Glee Club are: First Te11or-Spier 'o7, Bishop ~07, Sterns '07, Davies ~o8. Second Tenor-Cantwell 'o7, Fuller 'o6, Richard- son 'o7, Reed 'o6, Snow 'o8. First Bass-Osbourne 'o7, Reed 'o7, Stnith 'o8, professional teacher but Union is peculiarly fortu- Bell 'o8, Watson 'o8, Marx 'o8. nate in having a111ong her undergraduate students Second Bass-l\1c1'vi uller 'o7, Richards 'o7, M. :=--==== :Kin! 0 l\:1 :os, Tiff~ G1 :Mar Vi Bo~ Ct Fl c( Pi vv schE ran~ Bap one and COV( R fine B cert Nev and and The In \Vh Do; Bee· Dat

THE CO/VCORD!EJYSIS. 9 -~============= T'' 'o\' K. l1'·ne 'o8. n111g ::;, Of the Instrun1ental Club the foHowing: 1\landolins-Richards 'o7, Huppuch 'd8, Locke : 0 8, Fullerton 'o8, Ton1linson 'o8, Vroon1a~:t 'o8, Tiffany 'o8. Guitars-Bishop '07, Schoolcraft 'o8, Davies 'd8, l\!I arx 'o8. Violins-Tiede1nan 'o7, SheUey 'o8, Lanahan. 'c8, Bowtnan 'o8, V rootnan 'o8, Mahar 'o8. Cello--Klein 'o8. Flute-Reed 'o6. Cornet-Stevens 'o8. Piano-Bell 'o8. Reed 'o6. \Vhen seen, JVIanager Stevens said that the schedule had not yet been ratified but he has ar- ranged for a -concert to be given in the E1nn1anuel Baptist church on Tuesday eveniNg, Nov. r 5; also one to be given at the Van Curler in Dece1nber, and a four days' trip at Thanksgiving ti1ne to cover the northern part of the State. Rutgers, which is known far and wide for its fine n1nsical clubs, is already highly elated ov-er the prospects in a musical line there. It has akeady arranged its Christrnas trip as foUows: Beginning on the evening of December 26, con- certs will be given successive nights at Yonkers, Newburgh. Liberty, Kingston, Catskill, Hudson, and with one night intervening, at Potlghkeeps.ie and Nyack. The programme for ·union's first concert 1s. c.ts follows, subject to slight changes: MU.SICAL CLUBS' CONCERT. Progratnme. PART I. The Three Bumble Bees .................... Steele Glee Club. In London Town ......... ~ ................. Astin Instrutnental Club. \Vhat's the Matter with the Moon Tonight. Sloane l\1essrs. Bishop, Reed, Bell and Kline. Do~u Yo Cry, l\1a Honey ............ A. W. N o11 Glee Club. Bedouin LoYe Song ....................... . Bell 'o8. :Medley ............................. Popular Airs Instnnnental Club. PART II. Daniel e e 1 e 1 1 1 I 1 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I e I I I I I I I Anon. Glee Club. Buds and Blossorns .................... ·· .. Doyle I nstr11111en tal Cln h. In Silence .................................. Sloane Quartette. Trust in the Lord ......................... Handel Glee Club, Violins, Cello and Piano. Terrace So·ng .......................... Ludlow, '56 Glee and Instrutnent~l Cl-ubs. REPU·BLICANS' LAST POW WOW. Mr. Loucks, '66, Speaks. A Republican mass meeting of the students was held Thursday ·evening in ,Prof. Hoffman's recitation room. The meeting was called to order by President Wads- worth, who .after a few remarks introduced Mr. W. D. Loucks, an alumnus of the college class of '66. Mr. Loucks, in discussing the campaign so near at hand, began by bringing before the minds of the feHows- the conditions existing in the country 50 years ago, when with Abraham Lincoln, the Republican party was born, and how Lincoln with firm resolutions and the convictions of that party guided the nation through the greatest crisis in the history of the ccuntry. In speaking of the Democratic party as compared with the Republican party he said that the former was one of opposition and omission, while the latter stood for aggression and commission. He then reviewed the trouble with Spain in connec- tion with Cuba, and brought most stnkingly to the audience the fact that in all the trouble the whole aim of the Democracy was that of detri:Jnent to the country in order to in some underhand way shame the ad- ministration. In clos.ing the speaker dwelt upon the Ufe of Theodore Roosevelt and in part the wonderful work accomplished during his term of o·ftice. COLLEG 1 E MEETING. College meeting, Monday, was caUed to order by Mr. Thomson in the absence of President Losee. A motion was made, seconded and carried, to have the undergraduate council petition the faculty for a recess on the Monday following Thanksgiving. Mr. Raym~ond and Mr. Patton praised the good work of the ''All American'' team, otherwise know as the \scrub.''

IO THE CONCORDIENSIS. The C d . . · oncor ·1ens1s. eA L£terarJ' and :J(e.ws Weekly 'Publ£shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS. Editor-in-Chief E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. ·C. HART, 'o5, F. W. MILLER, 'o6, E. G. SIMONS, 'o5, R. J. NOWELL, 'o5, M. T. RAYMOND, 'o5, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'oJ,. Business Manager Asst. Business Manager Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor ASSOCIATE EDITO'RS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, W. KING, 'o6, P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. REPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, H. E. CANTWELL, 'o7, M. H. ELLIOTT, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, \'o7 A. H. WHITE, 'o7, L. S. PARSONS,'o7. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football {F. C. Patt?n, Captain; L. L. Odell, Manager. B b ll {Paul Hagar, Captain; ase a A. J. Thompson, Manager. Track { M. T. Raymond, Captain; W. T. Hunt, Manager. Gl Cl h { B. W. Reed, Leader; ee u · J. R. Stevens, Jr., Mana,ger. I t t l Cl b 5 B. W. Reed~ Leader; ns rumen a u 1 J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager. C d . . {E. J. Ellenwood, Editor; oncor zenszs L. C. Hart, Manager. G t S S. J. Raymond, Editor; arne 1 A. G. Chapman, Manager. y M C A .) Malcolm McGregor, President; · · · · I W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year, in Advance ro Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. It is not true that all the faculty are op- posed to prohibition just because they have taken sides with either the Republican or Democratic parties. A ;LAST APPEAL. T~e granting by the faculty of Monday as a vacation is going to injure the student at- tendanc~ at both today's and Tuesday's games. Cheering and singing and otherwise repre- senting the college for today and Tuesday is left to the efforts of a din1inished nutll her· And those who are away are expecting that the tean1 will get its usual an1ount of side-line encouragement, which it deserves, with the usual amount of volutne and vigor. Will it ? If it does, every student ;left in the coUege has got to be on the bleachers at both gan1es and has got to yell as he has never yelled before. It should be known before the referee bl Dws his whistle if the three cheering leaders are going to be present, as a great deal depends on them. This is the time when the team needs the most encouragen1ent. The next two games are the last hon1e games., and the results of the ren1aining three games are going to de- termine whether or not the season has been successful. · We expect to win the rest of the schedule The team expects the same. But your support on the side-lines is counted as a rnain factor. \All it requires is good moral charact~er,\ says President MacGregor, \and so there is no reason why every student should not be a • member of the Y. M. C. A.\ There are sorne things which everybody knows, but vvhen they are expressed in a pleasing \vay by an authority, they tend to make one feel sort of satisfied with himself-at least hopeful. If these glittering accounts of Garnet pros- pects continue to come in, we shall expect nothing less than a book bound in gold, stamped in gold, printed in gold and calling for gold. sk re th he <X w L lll a nc t1 tl C< S< v s1 V\ h t~ tl b c t t F 1 F I 1

THE CONCO'R.DJENSJS. II TH:E N:EXT STEP. It must be that w~e are going to have a skating rink here this year, for we have al- ready seen the site plowed up and we hear that arrange,ments have been made for the water. In view of this, vvhy not organize a hockey teatn. There· is no conceivable reason. why Union should not follow the exarnple or other -colleges a·nd have a hockey team ; less reason why she should not turn out a winning team. Last winter a club was organized and a nurr1ber ofgames were played, all resulting in a very satisfactory manner. Of that team nearly all the men are in college now and there must be a nLH11ber of others besides these who have played the game. Why not organize as a re-organized Union college team and begin tzo1v arranging a good schedule ? It is not too early. There are a number of colleges in this vicinity, as well as athletic clubs of good standing, which have tean1s that would be worth meeting. We have no basket ball team because -vve have no good place to play. A good hockey team would go a long way towards filling up the l.ong gap between foot ball in the fall and base b~ll in the spring. THE HOSPITAL. The latest indications of the condition of our several patients who have been with us two years or more, may be briefly stated thus: Football-Strong and healthy. Some weak parts, but developing constantly. Track-. Rather frail. Good physique to build on, but in need of exercise. Gymnasium too unhealthy a place for it. Philomathean-Dying by inches. --Hospital Y. M. C. A.-Convalescing fast. Basketball-Dead. Musical Clubs-Fully revived. A vigorous, useful life assured. Tennis Club-Chances for improvement, but feeling better than usual. Adelphic-Living yet, with fair prospects. Press Club-Unconscious. Dramatic Association-Dead. Garnet-· Lots to hope for. Cross Country Club-Almost go~e, but brightens up for very b nef spells. · Hockey Club-Not strong enough to stand yet. Concordiensis-SHgh.tly better, but worrying along; witth signs at times of a relapse. Skating Rink-Dependent on cha~ity and consequently quite weak occasionally. Soiree-Still in a stupor. Physicians disagree over the diagnosis. EN'LARG,I NG A LARGE STAFF. At a rneeting of the Senior Board of Editors, Wednesday night, the assigned work of the rnen1bers of the Junior and Sophomore classes was examined and on the merits of the contdbu tions, n1en were elected to fill vacancies existing in the staff of Associate Editors and Reporter5. D. F. In1rie was the Junior who received the appointment, with George A. Vedder as alternate. G. W. Spier received the Sophornore ap- pointment, with N. V. Franchot as alternate. Alternates were selected by the Board to .fill, without further competition, any vacancies which n1ay occur during the year. The work handed in by all of the several contestants \vas first class, and the Board found much difficulty in making the selections. It was proposed by some of the members to print only the names of the Senior and Junior Editors of the Staff each week on this page, but this suggestion vvas voted down by a rnajority of the Board. We note with pleasure that the trustees are not going to risk sinking too rnuch money on improvements, and then have some one in the dim and distant future waste a new gym- s In S ·,,.lcl1 an event think of the nastum on u . L loss of all this investtnent l And you can't tell vvhat may happen. Are you reading your own Concordy? Is there anything the n1atter with it? We just love \ knocks.\ .

I2 THE COl\rCORD!E.lVS.l.':>'. ================ ==================== - -·-=· ========== ''A BOOK ·OF VERSE.\ Press Comments on Prof. March's Work. Last spriing John Lewis March, Professor of the Modern Language Department, issued through the Gotham Press of Boston, a volumie entitled, ''A Book of Verse.'' At the time of its publication the Concor- diens,is gave a brief review of th.e work but, naturally, could only pr:edict its 5uccess. The following excerpts. from vanou:s journals throughout the country convey a slight impression of the favor with which it has been received. \Here we have another evidence that if those who are constantly bewailing the decadence or absence of poetic effort wiH only look a~round them they will find that we stH I have writers who can and do produce verse that is worth reading. Mr. M.arch is unpretentious but earnest, and the skill of versification is his in no mean degree. Besides ·this he has the imagination of a true poet, an imagination behind which, it must be said, his technical skirJllags from time to time. We hear it said that no one ever buys or reads poetry nowadays; those who make an exception of Mr. March's book will have no cause for regret. \-Public Opinion. \A book of verse by John Lew is March contains fifteen poems. all showing the inspiration of real genius. The sentiment, combined w~ith felicity of poetic expres· sion, give a particular charm to this volume, which will be heartily welcomed by lovers of English verse.''- Journal, SomervHle, Mass. \'A Book of Verse,' by John Lewis March, is made up of poems, every one .of which is of an unusual order of merit. The writer has a clear vision and in- spiration of the true poet, joined to a happy gift of poetic e.:xpression. ''-American, Nash ville, Tenn. \ While JVlr. March is not destined to become one of the immortals, his muse is not without attraction. If the lines halt ln places and the rhymes limp occasion- ally, the singer has injected I1il uch homely pathos and feeling in his unpretentious verse.\-Express Los Angeles, CaL ''There is the ring of life, of truth, and vigor about these poems which makes them a welcome contribution in an age of sickly verse. The exquisitely lyric quality of 'The Wh;ite Throat' may be felt in the verses called 'Evening,' which must bring back to many of us the thoughts of beloved country roads at the drowsy end of day, when sunset lights have meant to us 'the covered fire' of rest a mel love. It is like one of those dim twHi:ght pictures of Carol these shadowy verses : Now wend the great rose-glories toward the West, And darkness rises in H1e shady hollows; And like a BeowuUian mGnster·waHows, Ere i:t uprear its gray and ·misty crest. Hark how where billowy woods move wind-carest, And where the faUow fidd the brooklet swallows, A fulil, dear sound of vesper music follows. God's ·dear wHd things looking up to be blest. And wanderers Iook up along the way, With pure-felt joy, w.ith comforted desire, Blessing the sweetness of their toil's release; That after all the passions of the day, Follows the evening rest, the covered fire, And God's sure :love holding the world in peace. -Mail and Empire, Toronto, ·Ont. REV. F. W. ADAMS AT VESPERS. Says College is Best Place to Train Men for Emergencies. At Surtday afternoon's vesper service the Rev. F. W. Adams of the State Street Methodist church, spoke on the question, \Are College-bred Men the Best Citizens?\ Mr. Adams laid great stress on good preparation as a means to the highest citizenship. Speaking of the event which suddenly threw upon President Roosevelt the responsibilities of the highest office of the land, Mr. Adams said that it was by no sudden effort that he was able to 11ileet these responsibilities, but a life of constant endeavor which prepared him for them. There is no such thing as an extemporaneous acquisition of char- acter. Wlien after the Webster-Hayne debate some one asked Webster how it was that he was able to make such a reply to Hayne, he replied that he had spent his whole life in preparation for that debate. McKinley's great work for the Protective Tariff was the result of a failure when a boy in high school, to sustain his arguments for Protection in a debate be- tween two school societies. The college men who make their mark are those that take the preparation college affords. The man who meets an emergency is he who prepares for it. The Civil War ·was but the opportunity of those great men the war is said to have produced. Emergencies often come which we are not able to meet. By the chaos frnr: through tl was able periocl. There : country ' alild the s: in Nation: ia .colleg( training t LastS Methodi~ Vesper ~ M.en the On ao service ~ meeting~ wiU also 1hrou Concord in there LifE Bro Mac Sen Uni Th( Ori Ou Ed Rec Stt: Tri Ta The: We·dne Last part of the as~ last y( reache1 now st tion at alread~

THE CO.'VCORDIEl\TS'lS. IJ By the Revolution France was thrown into a state of cha0s frnrn which it has not yet recovered, but England, through the work of John Wesley fifteen years before, was able to m..eet the same emergency .at the same tee and be given an invitation to become a member. periocl. There is no such thing as future success for this country without trained men to meet its emergencies alild the strong, nobie, manly ideals of citizenship which in National life are daily shown to have been developed ia .college men prove that there is no better field for training than the college. Y. M. C. A. Last Sunday Rev. F. W. Adams, of the State Street Methodist church, gave a very interesting talk at the Vesper service. His subject was, \Are College-bred M.en the Best Citizens.\ On account of the election vacation, there will be no service Sunday afternoon· or Tuesday evening. The meetings of the Freshmen and Sophomore Bible classes wiU also be postponed one week. 1hrough the kindne::;s of the editor-in-chief of the Concordiensis, the following college papers are on flle in the reading room in Silliman Hall: Life ........ , ......... Hamilton Brown and White ..... Lehigh Madisonensis .......... Colgate Seminary Opinator .... Wyoming Seminary University Monthly ... Alfred tP The Lafayette ......... Lafayette Orient. ............... Bowdoin Outlook .............. McGill Echo ................ Colby Record ............... Williams Student ............... Amherst Triangle .............. New York University Targum .............. Rutgers, The regular monthly meeting of the cabinet was held We·dnesday afternoon. Last spring, the membership committee adopted, as a part of its policy, that it would raise the membership of the association to 100, which is nearly double that of last year. Although this number has nearly been reached, the committee is still hard at work, and are now striving to make the membership of the associa- tion at least 125. Every fellow. in college, who is not already a m.em ber, will be interviewed by this commit- Any student of good moral character m.ay become a member of the association, and as this is the only religious organization in college, there is no reason why every fellow should not become a member. Y. M. C. A. IN. OTHER COLLEGES Miss Helen Gould has presented the Y. M. :C. A. of N. Y. U. with a stereograph outfit, which includes views of Japan, Palestine, Switzerland, England and the United States. There are 100 views of each country! That the McGill Association has been doing good work is manifested by the number of men who become missionaries. Those who have recently set saH are Messrs. A. W. Lochead, J. A. Mowatt, C. S. Paterson H. J. Keith and E. C. Woodley. ' Iowa State College has already enrolled over five hundred men in Bible classes. Fraternity Bible classes have recently been organized at Cornell, Brown, Lehigh, Syracuse and the University of Illinois. The students of Simpson college, Indianola, Iowa, are supporting one·of their alumni as college missionary. At present there are twenty Indian student associa- tions with a membership of 1,725. Nearly 8oo were enrolled in Bible classes last year. PSI U HOUSE PARTY. The Theta Chapter of Psi Upsilon entertained In- formally last Saturday evening. The house was deco- rated with cornstalks, jack-o-lanterns, autumn leaves and pine boughs. Dancing and Hallowe'en pastimes were enjoyed. Those present were: Mrs. S. G. Speir and Mrs. F. L. Classen of Albany; Mrs. E. H. Heard of Kingston; · Mrs. Furman of Schenectady; Misses Stevens and Bryce of Albany; Miss Bowman of Troy; Misses Ostrom, Furman, Featherstonhangh, Marguerite Yates, Elizabeth Yates, McMullen, Peck, Lundgren, Bates, Horstman, Schermerhorn, Osborne, Wright, Mary Krie.gsman and DeForest of Schenectady; Messrs. Ver- beck of Ballston Spa; Mr. Finch of Kingston; Messrs. Burtiss, Stiles, Weed and the members of the active chapter of Psi Upsilon.

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS. FOOT BALL FOR THE WEEK After the good showing of the team in last Sat- urday's gatne, the outlook today is most favorable. As was n1anifested in the Rutgers' gatne, the team has made a decided itnprovetnent in one m<?re of its weak points, that of receiving punts. A num- ber of new forn1ations have been tried during the week with gratifying results. l'vicN ah still continues his good drop kicking and Moore has co1ne to the front as a, promising punter. Peck, a new tnan on the squad and a sub- stitute centre filled the position well during part of the last half against Rutgers. Wright who has been laid up with a bad leg will probably not play but will be in the game on Election Day. Referring to the Trinity-Stevens game, the Hart- ford Daily Courant says: \Besides being closely contested and exciting, the garne was especially interesting fron1 the fact that a numbe.r of old Trinity players were on hand to inspect the work of the tean1. They expressed satisfaction with the showing n1ade and all were of the opinion that the tean1 will round into fine shape for the Wesley- an game. Landerf el d and Madden were especially strong at line bucking and Lee's end runs were . . \ exc1ttng. According to reports Trinity is in rather a crip- pled condition, but every day this week over 25 men have been out for practice, and, with an eye for the Vvesleyan game which is most important to them, they will be here with a strongly developed teatn. Middleburg are to play here Tuesday, and are coming like a Japanese attack. It has been UTI- possible to gain any idea of their condition for there hasn't been a score of any of their games published, as far as could be found, in the. papers this season. One thing can be safely counted on. They will bring as husky a lot of players as have played here thus far. Vermont seldom turns out anything else. Last year by playing only a strong defensive gan1e they held the score o-o. This year nobody knows what it n1ay be until after the first scrhn- U1age. T rini:ty' s Record Trinity vs. Yale-0-42. Trinity vs. Amherst-o-40. Trinity vs. N. Y. U.-o-6. Trinity vs. Stevens-· 5-0. END OF FALL. MEET Results of Postponed Events Last Saturday morning the remaining events of the i11ter-class :meet wer·e run off. The first places in the high jump and relay race went to the freshmen. In the high jutnp, Bennett 'o8 was first, clearing the bar at 4 ft. 8 in., Langley '07 and Yeyrauch 'o8 taking second and third re- spectively. Tl'ie high hurdles were won by Lang- ley '07 in 21 2-5 sec., with Moore 'o7 second and Schoolcraft 'o8 third. In the relay race only the two lower classes were ·represented, Weyra11ch, Bennett and Schoolcraft, 'o8, winning out by considerable over Wheadon, Moore and Langley, '07. Ribbons were given to the winners of the first three places in each event at chapel meeting JYfon- day morning. The score by classes for the entire meet: Seniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 ] uniors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Sophotnores . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Fresl1tne11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 RUTGERS BADLY DEFEATED Union Clearly Outclasses New Brunswick Aggregation and Wins by 35 to 0 By team work and individual play noticeably superior to that of Rutgers, the Union team de- feated the New Jerseyites on the campus last Sat- . urday by a score of 35 to o, in the first gan1e be- tween the two colleges in four years. The visitors arrived early enough in the morning to take note of our commodious quat't:ers in the gymnasiutn and our unsurpassed bathing and light- ing facilities in that building. At three o'clock the two teams lined up on the gridiron, with Union defending the south goal, and Rutgers ten-yard yanced tlowned. aains of b Ha:rvey : son line the p1gs was east first tou the SCOl Rtttgers~ gatne, a ceutre 1:: had bee Pattot where 1 and bv yards. 1 and rigl for gai: They a~ bt1rg g' Rutgen of the ~ for dov their fif advance:: J erseyii Cri1nso J\lloore Rutger ors on fence I downs, holclin~ ba 11 fo1 was to the Ur trick p part o throug ner fo seSSlOl' a gatn Dann pigs kit

THE CONCORDIENSIS. IS Rutgers kickoff. The baH was kicked to Union's shoved .over for a touchdown. Patton failed to ten-yard Hue where Sh1.:1tler received it and ad- kick .goal. Score I I -o~ yanced for a gain of ten yards before being tlowned. Patton was sent around left end for two gains of twenty-five aad twenty yards respectively. Ha:rvey and Moore wer.e pushed through the crim- son line for .good gain 1 s and within four minutes the pigskin was on Rutgers :five-yard line. Dann was easily pushed between the posts and made the first tottchdown. Patton kicked ~n e.asy goal and the score stood 6-o. 'The ball had not be-en in Rtttgers' possession at .all during tlili.s .part of the gatne, and their line was ripped up at will, the ceutre being especiaHy weak. a'lthol!~gh easy gains had been n1ade around the ends. Patton kicked to Rutg.ers' twenty-yard line where MacNeil made a:.n excellent running catch, and by snappy intederetJ.ce advanced the ball ten yards. before he was clowned. By a double pass and right end run Rutg-e·rs fooled the Garnet boys for gains of twenty and ten yards respectively. They again tried the sa_me fake, but Von Dannen- btlrg got past the int ederence and downed the Rutgers' end in his tracks. Here, at the centre of the gridiron, the Union team held tl1e 'Skeeters for downs. and they were compelled to\ punt from their fifty-yard line. McNab received the bal1'and advanced it to Union's thirty-yard line before the J erseyites downed hirn. Line bucking tore up th:e Cri1nson defense and Tiann, Patton., Harvey and J\lloore were pushed through for telling gains. On Rutgers' thirty-yard line the ball went- to the visit- ors on a n1isunderst o.od signal. The Garnet de- fence proved a veritable stonewaH and, held for downs, Rutgers was f0 n::ed to punt. Penalized for holding, Union had to al:low Rutgers to keep the ball for first clown on the line f~om -which the punt was to pe n1ade. After two ineffectual rams at the Union line, the Rutgers' team again tried the trick play that worked so successfulty in the first part of the game .. Von Dannenhurg again tore through the Rutgers' defense and downed the run- ner for a loss. The ball now in Union's pos- session was sent aro1:1nd end in Patton's hands for a gain of over thirty yards. A lin.e bt1ck shoved Dann through for a seven-yard gain leaving the pigskin on Rutgers' tv-vo-yarcl line. Raymond was Patton again kick-ed off to MaeN,eil. He was downed in his tracks by Shutler, and after three abortive attempts to gain the necessary d[stanee, Rutgers lost th-e ball to Uaion. In the sttcce€ding play Union was penalized fifteen yards for holding. A well played fake punt advanced the pigskin ten yards. On thiTd d@wn Patton punted to Rutgers' fifteen-yard line, w1~ere the· Crimson tea1n was held for downs. Taking an unexpeeted brace, the Rut- gers line held Union for downs., just as time was called. Score I il:-'0. Patton kicked off to Weaver on Rutgers twenty:.. yar·d line. W eav·er mad·e a he-a~1tiful catch but was downed on the twenty-five yard line. The Crimson boys tried in yain to gain their distance in the next plays, and, held for downs, were forced to punt. Dann c.arried the ball in the fonnati.on through the Rutgers' line, for :five yards. Harvey then carried the ball around end for a run of forty-five yards and a touchdown. The Rutgers back had off.ered no interference and, through a misunderstanding of the referee's signals, asked that the play be ruled out. Th~ decision stood in favor of Union. Patton kicked goal. Score 17-0. The Rutgers line at this stage of the proceedings went to pieces, the effects of Union's weeks at the training table showing the super~or stayin-g qual- ities of the Garnet over the Critnson. At no time did the Rutgers team take a decided .brace, and Unio11 sent the ball at will through any part of the Crimson defence. Harvey, Becker and again Har- vey were sent over for touchdowns within fifteen n1inutes. The weakening Rutgers line was offer- ing but little resistance when the garne was called with the ball dangerously near their goal. Patton had kicked the three final goals and tl1e score stood 35-0. The Unio'n team played well on the whole, the finest work being done by D ann, Von Dannenburg~ Patton and :Harvey. Moore was not playing up to his usual standard, but easily outclassed his Rut- gers opponent. During the second part of the 1111 first half three bad fumbles were made, indicating a laxity so1newhere, which in a gam,e with a strong tea1n would have counted tremendously against us,..

r6 THE ,COMCORDIENSIS. even to the outranking of our stonewall defence and our otherwise strong line pJay. During the latter .part of the last half most of the substitutes were sent in for a few moments of play,, showing up well. The line up fo11ows: UNION. RUTGERS. Davis (Hildreth) .................... W. · MacN ei1 left end. Patton (Capt.) ......................... Broyger left tackle. Von D annenbur g . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Black left guard. N utt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 'f:horp centre. Norwood (Knight) ..................... Koehler right guard. Da11n . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Watson right tackle. Shutler • t • t I t t t t I t t t I t t I t I I I I I I I I I I ••• I I Murray right end. MeN ab (Robinson) ..................... Weaver quarterback. Harvey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bak:er left halfback. lVIoore (Reeder) . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . ]. MacNeil right halfback. Raymond (Becker) ................ Cobb (Capt.) fullback. Score-Union, 35; Rutgers, o. Touchdowns- Hanrey, 3; Dann, Becker, Raym.ond. Goals-Pat- ton, s. Referee-Van Tine, Trinity. Umpire- Berkshire, Purdue. Timekeeper-Griswold, Union. Titne of halves-20 minutes. Sophmores Defeated The Sophotnores lost a well-played game to 1\lbany :High School last Monday afternoon at Ridgefield Park, the final score being 17 to 6. The teams were pretty evenly matched but the game showed plainly that if the Sophs had had an equal an1ount of practice the score would have been quite different. The Union players could ga1n nothing to speak of around Albany's ends due to their lack of trained interference. However, the High. School boys could not withstand the re- peated attacks on their line. la the first half Al- bany scored twice, but in the second, Union took a more offensive attitude and prevented any decid- ed gains except when Thorn snatched the ball on a fun1ble and scored a touchdown after\ a sensational run. After this the Sophomores. bucked the Albany line time and again and invariable secured good. ga1ns. As a result of another fumble DeMey ran nearly the le·ngth of the field to score the Soph' s only touchdown. After the kickoff the ball was swiftly advanced to Albany's four-yard line. Here the ball was car- ried across the line, but due to aH off-side play the Sophon1ores were penalized five yards. Time was called before the next play was begun, so that the Union players did not have the chance to score agatn. vVl~eadon played the best game for the Soph- omores, but consi:dering the lack: of training and practice every man on the tean1 did remarkably well. The following table gives universities and colleges represented in the University Club of New York City by a membership of twenty-five or over: Amherst, 3~; Annapolis, 146; Brown, 76; C. C. N. Y., 47; Columbia, • 331; Cornell, 31; Dartmouth, z6; Hamilton, 30; Har- vard, 641; Princeton~ 304; Rensselaer Polytechnic In- stitute, 29; Rutgers, 32; Trinity, 5o; UNION, 37; Uni- versity of Pennsylvania, 27; West Point, 88; Williams, 173: Yale, 949; and all others 356. c4 new Shoe Store in Schenectady. FEAREY'S at 230 State St~ MacLean REY John 35 Maide

THE CONCOR DJENSIS. I7 BRIGHTON FLAT' GARTER CLASP - 41 scored\ at the first try for \goal.\ A \line up\ -of Brighton wearers would show nearly two·million men. There is no \sub'' for the Brig:hton. The si~nal for Brighton \play\ is- \ Comfort-Neatness-Service.'' Made from one piece pure s1llc web with nickel trimmings. Price 25c., at stores or by mail. PIONEER SUSPENDER CO., 118 Market Street, Plliladelphia, Makers of Pioneer Suspenders. firthur J ldhite Successor to MacLean · ~ 3he College Photographer'' Liberal Discount to College Men. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. Ph. j 492 Home one t 47m H. R. DR UGS Pipes, Cigars - Anythmg . . _ _ Lowne_y 's ca_ ndies and Everything OPEN ALL NIGHT ------------------------ CHAS.- HoLTZM-A-'N·N, & SoN 259 STAT:E STREET Hawes Hats are the ideal colleg·e Men's Hats. In buying them. we had the men of Union College in mind. We have shapes that will please yo1:1: college men. They are $3.00, with our usual coHeg~e discount. /1 ) Cflll G£'£ Successor to (71,., • CIYIC GERARDUS SMITH Dealer in COAL AND WOOD Telephone l21 140 South Centre St. Schenectady? N,. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S GREATEST STORE HEADQUARTERS FOR Men's Furnishings of all Kinds Special Prices to Students COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 0 Show your College Spirit by giving it your patronage. ® Orders Attended to Promptly. W. HUNT, '05 Silliman Hall REYNOLDSt c1~~E~:JAR~~t:~~T ~obson a.Hdee John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE .... MERCHANT TAILOR 35 Maiden Lan.e Alban.y, N. Y. SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA

AD V ER TISEJV! ENTS. Electric Lighting Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. Sales offices in all the large cities of the United States. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE GU!I/IANT££0 IIDI~I~fi\1 BOWLS MADE: IN FRANCE Pipes Repaired EYRE.S, Society Florist~ FLORAL EMBLEMS ARRANGED IN ARTISTIC STYLES. THOUSANDS OF ROSES, CARNA'1IONS AND VIOLETS ALWAYS ON HANiD. I No. 'Pearl St. Tel. 208. Albany, N.Y. OSCAR]. GROSS, D. D.& OFFICE HOURS: 9 A.M. to4P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHEN,ECT ADY. N. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEJALER IN. BEEF, PORK, VEA~ LAMB, HAMS, BACON .All kinds (i)f P0ultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty GRUPE . THE FLORISTt . · ,. 426 STATE STREET Supplies Flowers for Balls, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street~ New York. Schenectady vVorkr->, r---..-- . Schenectady, N.Y. Broolu; \Yorks, Dunkirk,~. Y. Pittsburg \Vorks, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. . __ .. l: Cooke \Vorks. Paterson,'N. J. Rhode Island Works, Providence, R. l. Dickson Works, Scranton, Pa. .l MancheRter Works, Manchester, .N. H. ., 1 Locomotive & Machine Co., Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE. c t s~ 420 ~ Wl Str Fo or TH \S1 SA' DR 78· James Lucas Office: Bos·

ADVERTISEMENTS. CThe Gazette is easily the foremost daily in Schenectady. -PRINTE;RS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904 Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telephone 425 General Office 420 State St. Schenectadyt N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Day 1 igh t Ceren1on i als; or for After-Six Forn1alities, THE 'VARSITY MAN WHO WEARS I \STEEFEL'' QUALITY CLOTHES HAS THE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRIED. STEEFEL BROT·HERS 7 8·80-82 State Street James H. Barhyte Lucas W. Devenpeck Albany, N. Y. Barhyte & Devenpeck Wholesale & Retail Dealers Coal and Mason Supp1ies Office J06 Ul\ion St. Schenectady, N. Y. • CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICA.L COLLEGE · New Yor:k City ([HE course C?vering four years .begins du!ing the first week m October and continues until June. ,A preliminary training in natural science is of great advantage. All the classes are divided in small sections for recita- tion, laboratory and clynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the required examinations. The successful completion of the first year in any College or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maint~:tining·a satisfactory stand· ard is sufficent to satisfy the .requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annual announcement giving full particulars \vill be inailed on application. WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D., DEAN, Cornell University Medical College, 27th and 28tl\ Streets and 1st Avenue, N .. Y. City Telephones H. R.. 745-A Home 792 IOJ North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y .. MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnisked Music- Union College-'92, '93, '94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Cornell University-'94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. Colgate Univergity-'94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Williams· College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02. Governor's lVIansion-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. EDWIN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCvrler, Jay Street BATHS~ Razors Honed The best equipped shop in the city. All modern improvements. A new comp1·essed air outfit. Successor to R. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steamship .Agency lJJ State Street Schenectady, II(. Y. WOOD 'BROTHERS MEN'S FURNISHERS 265 STATE STREET Fine Dress Shirts in Manhattan and Monarch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and Mallory I-Iats. Crawfory and Foremost Shoes. Home Steam L.aundry.

1 J • 1 ~• 1 0 t • ~ • ' ~ I ' J 1; I - ' 1 0 ' • ,. I 0 • 467 State St. Schenectady ·G· d Cl th We have a line of suits that for busi- • · oo ·o• .es ness, dress or full dress wear have no • equal. Suits that are made from the best materials, • fashioned in the most approved styles, tailored in good , taste and finished perfectly. Such high-grade manufact- · urers as Rogers, Peet & Co. and others contribute their . best productions to our stock. We do not care how . particular you may be about your clothes, we have a suit . · that will satisfy you in every particular. · Our Overcoats and Rain Coats are also very swell. The Finishing· That is, the little things that go to make a man . Touches well dressed-hats, gloves, neckwear, collars, cuffs, . · shirts, etc. These goods express the newest and most approved styles and are perfect in every detail. We also have a very fine line of underwear, hosiery, handkerchiefs, sweaters, etc. BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. Pearl Street, STULL BROS. Albany, N. Y. 467 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN HABERDASI-IERY CUSTOM TAILORING The 1904 College .M.en will wear THE 3 INCH FOUR-IN-HAND THE LA·RGE ENGLISH SQUARE Gloves, Hosiery, Night Shirts, Pajamas, Shirts, Collars and Cuffs, all strictly high-class goods Everything new. 4 Shirts and Pajamas made to measure. The hlgness ani fullness that characteriztd clothes last season are just as rJoticeable features of the fashions for Autumn and Winter. · Coats will be 29~ inches in length with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in length. Plain and fancy browns are the latest shades. The particular dresser comes to us, for we dress him in a partie- · ular way. - ... -

.+ + + + THE + + + + CONCORDlENSlS VOLUME XXVIII NUMBER 8 qw . 11rt ·'i*dai w · wa jUDO_ · ;e . NOVEMBER 12, 1904 PUBLISHED WEE:~ Y BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY ' *'·. I . I t . I , I I

2 A.lJVER TISEMENTS. Union University. ANDREW; V. V. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. 0., PRESIDENT. U NIO.N COLLEGE, SCHENEOT AD Y, N. Y. I. Course Leading to the Degree of A. B. 2. Course Lea.ding to the Degree of B. S. J. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. : 6. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. · This differs from course 4 in. substituting special work in Electricity and its ,applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered i:n • co-operation with th.e Edison General Electric Company, un- · der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P . .Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4:, 5 or 5. For catalogues 01' for special information, address BENJAMIN B. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDIOINE. Albany .ZV:edical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita- tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Pratical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full information, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Registrar, Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAfV. Albany Law Schooi.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. , It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. l3xpenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee. $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, W. R. DA.VIDSON, Secretary Albany, N.Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College Building. For catalogue knd information address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N.Y. LOUIS M. CIJUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. F. C. KRUEGER & CO. The Up-to-date Groc.ery House· FULL AND COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their Season. 142 & J44ST.A~TE STREET. ~--=--------------------------·u-·--=--------·u-au~•~~ Dr. St. Elmo N. Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State and Clinton StR. SCI-IENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BON BONS and CHOCOLATES Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon's The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, Schenectady, N. Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWNS and HOODS to the An1erican Colleges and UniverRi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty. - WILSON DAVIS fVIerchant Tailor 23 7 Stat? St. Schenectady, N. Yt Tl ·Wm. E

ADVERTISEMEJVTS. 3 a~··--:·--- r.------------=:-· The best place for \. D .. · .: .·.E· . R· . B .. y CA·NDIES, TOBACCO. lee Creant, Ci.garettes THE TENEYCK .A.L:SANY., N- y_ :J?os5.t5.. \Ve~y :F\5.:re-J?:roof- Euro,pean Plan. lYiost attractiv-e Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPI':t'OL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grilil Special Features. Orchestra. MuRic during e'iTening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. H. J. ROCKWELL ®. SON KEELER'S Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N.Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attached ·Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507 ®. 509 Broadway .·.THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Tlze Lt.rrgest and Best Appointed Hotel ill tlz·C Cit)!. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers.' S ·o 0 A, C I G A R S Three blocks f,rom the campus 511 UN I ON ST. I E stablislted 1:84:5 incorporated 1900 W. &L.E. GURLEY, TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers in America of Fie[d Instrutnents for Civil Engineers' and and Surveyors', also makers of Physical and Scientific Instrurnents of a:ll kinds and U .. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing l nstrumen\ts Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T -squares, Triangles, Curves, Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, Rubber, Scientific Books, A nemotneters, Barorneters, The no orneters, Magnifiers, Etc. Headq-uarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by · C. ,GQE~rz, Tailor 3 Cen.tral Arcade S h t d N Y c eneca·y, .•• E. C. HARTLEY, Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full line of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UN'ION STREET For Ha.ts, ·Caps, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases, Etc., go to M.MANN'S SuccesRor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. YATESt BOAT HOUSE· The Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall. which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with house. 2~ F.ront Street Schenectady, :N. Y ..

• I 4 ADVERTISEMENTS. . . Photographs LEVI 8VIOORE 15 North Pea.r[.St.~ Alha.ny~ N. Y .. Special R.ates to Students Appointments by Mail or Telephone HOPKINS & CO. u We make our own clothing. ,.,. 64 North Pearl St. COLLEGE TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS ALBANY, ~. Y. Our fall and winter line of brown suitings and over coat- ings is now complete in the Custom Tailoring, as well as Ready-to-Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be ex.ce:fied. Suits and Overcoats frotn $l5.00 to $60.00 The. Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Buildinjj 313 and 315 State Street o4LLEN' S CZ300KSTORE 508 FULTON ST., TROY, N. Y. cAll Union College Text Books Second Hand and New :f in stock Long Distance Telephone LIMMER & EVANS .. Florists .• Dan~urler QJpera !)ouse LORRAINE BLOCK STATE STREET ·C. H. BENEDICT TELEPHONE No.3l5 Both Phones Manager ----- --- vo PRE~ cc The workir which true t' is in can m which his al: rendeJ Tha to exi 1 190t banq1 Alba I more Th tend~ and thre€ tend' At gues rep a S:t burs hote arri' ing a sl T. out:: had not F and

CoNCORDIENSis VOL. XXVIII. ' PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT TO THE COLLEGE :M:EN 'OF AMERICA The man who is content to go through life working his alma m~ter for an educatiGn for which he has made no adequate return, is not true to the ideals of American citizenship. He is in honor bound to make such return. He can make it in but one -vvay; he can repay that which he owes his alma mater only by making his alma mater proud of \Vhat he does in service rendered to his fellowmen. That is the type of return we have the right to expect of the university men in this cou·ntry. THE FRESHMAN BANQUET 1 908 Does Itself Proud at the Annual Feast The ne\VS that the freshmen were to hold their banquet on election night at the Kenmore in Albany spread like wildfire. among the Sopho- mores on college hill Tuesday. The banquet was a success and was well at- tended, there being about 15 seniors, 2 5 junio1·s and 50 freshmen present,· and there were also three, sophomores who rather involuntarily .at- tended. At 9:3 0 the majority of the freshmen a..nd their guests were seated at the board and enjoying the repast before them. Shortly after, several large bottles of ammonia burst through the large plate glass window of the hotel, announcing that the 19 0 7 delegation had. arrived. 1908 welcomed them by forcibly bring- ing three of their number into the hall, causing a short scrap. The sophomores, in spite of the policemen outside, who were guarding the broken window, had kidnapped the freshman secretary ·who did not appear again the rest of the evening. From this time on everything went smoothly and the guests enjoyed the remainder of the No.8 dinner, after which the toastmaster, Mr. J. L. Schoolcraft, made a few remarks and introduced.: Mr. Carlos G. Hafley '@ 8, who toasted on the Presidential year. J\1r. Barnes '0 6, followed with a few words oa football. Mr. Parker '0 3, it was observed, well remem- bers Old Union as he expressed his thoughts in.. his toast \To the Faculty.\ He was followed by Mr. l\1orris T. Raymond '05, who told some apt stories in his words on ''Our Track Team.\ Mr. A. G. Chapman '06 showed a keen knowl- edge of his subject in his rernarks as he toa:.sted to \The Idol.\ The toasts closed by Mr. Philip F. Shutler '08, who spoke a few words on the s1:1.bject \The Campus.\ The banquet broke up about 11:45, everyone feeling that it had been a grand success an1 that great spirit was manifested by the new class. THE GYMNASIUM AT LAST Trustees Startle Everybody With Their Plans For Improvement The Trustees of the college, acting through the Finance and Improvement Co1nmittee, have de- cided to transform the large room over the chapel, which old students remember as the museum, into four recitation rooms. Plans have been submitted and accepted which provide fo:c large, well lighted and well ventilated rooms, leaving ample space for Professor Stoller's pri- vate laboratory. The omathological and oth~r collections will be removed to the new museum in the library building. The Trustees have also decided to repair and improve the gymnasium. The plan includes the introduction of steam heat and €lectric lighta,.

6 THE CONCORDIENSfS. a larger entrance, a new floor and a general renovation of apparatus, lockers, etc. Only so much money will be expended as is absolutely necessary to put the building into condition for immediate use, as the needs of the eollege de- mand a new gymnashun \vhich it is hoped \nU soon be provided. The Trustees have further provi:ded for the maintenance and further enlargement of the electrical laboratory. PHARMACY NOTES. A victoria trimmed with garnet and white held four white-robed, white-masked figures. Th2y bore a transparency with the legend \Albany Col- lege of Pharmacy, V. V., appropriately flanked by mortar and pestle, graduate and scales while a skull and crossbones occupied a prominent po- sition. Following the victoria came forty ghostly be- ings upon whose backs were, in letters of fire, various chemical symbols. It was rem.arked that C2-H5-0H was more in evidence than H2o. Although many members of the two classes did not turn out, those who did were more than satisfied at the appearance of the college in the carnival parade. All along the line of march we we,re greeted by delicious shivers and chattering of teeth. Although we did not receive a prize we got honorable mention which will satisfy us for this year. It is up to next year's classes to go us one better. Applications for examination by the State Board of Pharmacy must be in by the fifth of this month otherwise those desiring to try will he debarred. 'Tis said that a visitor to the State library found Walker '0 5 deep in botany and materia medica while two employes trotted to and from the table he occupied with books galore. Sajd the visitor, \Why this sudden and deep plunge into the pool of learning?\ Walker replied, ·'I am looking for more opinions as to the contents of laticiferous ducts.\ Mr. Dillenback's weekly criticisn1 of p.rescrip- tions becomes more interesting and helpful at each meeting .. This merely iHustrates what has been so fre- quently said by A. G. P. graduates. That in a course like ours the practical dispens:ng phar- macist can g,ive from his own experience, facts and examp:l€s that the purely scientific man would never t01ach upon. While the scientist could give us hundreds upon. hundreds of the- oretical chemical incompatibilities of \Vhich, probably three-fourths would never be met w:th in the average city pharmacy, yet he would probably ignore the greater part O·f the more puzzling pha:rmacentical incompatibHities \.Vhich must be seen and overcome, not by laboratory work but by practical d:spensing counter experi- el1ce. We are fortunate in numbering upon our faculty so nany men of wide practical d:spens- ing experience. The query now is, \Are you going to try the board next week? Wednesday's exam. is the last one regularly scheduled for this year although there &re good grounds for 'b€Uef that an overflow ·will be held so1netime in. December. Y. M. C. A. At the Vesper service Sunday afternoon, Prof. Hoffman will begin a series of talks on the sub- ject, \The Bible; What it is and What it is Not.\ The series will continue every Sunday afternoon for the remainder of the term. No special topic will be announced for any of the meetings, as each talk wiU be a continuation of the one pre- ceding. Rem.etnber that the first of the talks will be given Sunday afternoon at 5 o'clock. For several years the International committee of the Y. M. C. A. has designated a week in No- vember as a 'veek of prayer for young men. Th:s year, it is Nov. 13-19. In observance of this week of prayer, the Association will hold a short serv- ice each night in the week beginning Monday, with the exception of Saturday night. The gen- eral topic for all the meetings is \Prayer.\ Mc- Gregor '0 5 wHl lead the meetings. Toe sudden full of the lar their tt sympa is to b1 1906 ( the spi of the novel TherE year t< the lar well c prospE this w to the Am to apr of thE ball c: footbt: being game, snapr Th( LesliE view~ Pharr 1ngs < cal la gmm by th nellia any c be w Dra\1\ Ne 111 an mucr the fi de cis body \Ga1

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 7 1906 GARNET. Garnet Notices. To everyone this year Union seems to have taken a sudden inspiration. Every department of coHege lite is full of s;pi:rit and advancement. Our football squad is the largest in years, the men are working hard and their team play shows it. The track ·m.eet was ~in full sympathy with the movement; and now the old \·gym\ is to be made fit for use. Under the same influence the 1906 Garnet board is doing its utmost to keep up with the spirit and to put out an annual that will be worthy of the new spirit in Union. Many improvements, rnany novel features, many enlargen.1ents, are under way. The result will be that the college will have a book this year to be proud of; a book to be compared with any of the large college annuals in quality and appearance, as well as in quantity; a book one would wish to show a prospective son .of our Alma Mater. Such a book as this will be a lasting honor to the board of editors and to the management. Among the changes and additions noted are the cuts to appear this year. There are going to be small views of the campus, of class-scraps and rushes, of the foot- ball and baseball games, etc. The glimpses of the football games especially will be 0f interest. These are being taken by a photographer from Saratoga at every game. Nearly all the touchdowns so far have been snapped, as well as the team formations. There will be a series of the views which appeared in Leslie's Magazine before the Nott Memorial celebration; views of the Medical College, the Law School, the Pharmacy, the Dudley Observatory, and all the build- ings on the campus; nor will the newly equipped electri- cal laboratory be forgotten. The drawings at the be- ginning of the various sections will be made probably by the young ladies who make the same for the \Cor- 11 . \ Th 1· ne. Ian. e Iterary section is to be enlarged, and any one of the students wishing to submit material will be welcomed by the boar.d, providing he come early. Drawings, too, by students will be willingly accepted. Nearly all the material for the first part of the book is in and the work is progressing most satisfactori:ly. So much so that the management expects to have it out by the first of March. A great deal now rests with the decision of the Business Men's Association. If this body recognizes i.t as an advertising agent, the old \Garnet'' in its new dress will hardly be recognized. Senior and Junior individual histories are due by Nov. 16. Walter F. Well man takes Paul Hagar's place as Literary editor. In view of the fact that the book will cost between $2.75 and $3.00 this year, the managementcontemplates raising the price to $r.5o this year. Those who wish to submit drawings of any kind such as cartoons, etc., are asked to hand the same to Hall, 'o6, ct> Ll 8 7 N. S. S.C. before the Thanksgiving vacation. OUR 1904 GRADUATES. Varied Occupations. Walter E. Beadle is now studying law with Judge Tenwatt in Cooperstown, N. Y. Claude Norton Brown is teaching at Central Bridge, N. Y. Joseph G. Cool is in the insurance business with his father at Glens Falls. Thaddeus G. Cowell is taking a course in the Albany Law School. William C. Durant is with the General Electric Co., in the test department. .,.L W.l D h . k. \· ev-t . on auser Is ta mg the medic course in the Albany Department. Edward D. Greenman is now employed at the State capitol. He is residing at 43 3 Clinton avenue, Albany. William H. Guardenier is with the Title Guarantee and Trust Co. of New York. C. Lansing Hayes is now taking a course in law in the Columbia Law School. Leland W. Irish is on the state engineering staff at Albany. James .f. Lawsing is on the engineering division of the Schenectady Railway company. Andrew W. Lent is studying law with his father at Highland, N.Y. Luke F. Lovelock IS now taking a course In the Albany Normal school. John A. Mahar has a situation with Siegel, Cooper & Co., in New York. Carl E. McCombs is now following the electrical trade in New York. He is residing at 221 W. ro6th street. James E. Malcney is with the General Electric Co., in the test department.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Elbert V. MuUenaux Is In the insurance business i:n Albany. HenryS. Otmste\d is with the Title ·Guarantee and Trust ·co. ·Of New York. Samuel D. Palmer is at ho:me 66 Fran'kHn street, Ogdensburg, N.Y. Lafayette C. Reynolds is in the city engineer's office in Albany. Elbert F. Rulison is in the mining business in Rich 'Gulch, California. Archibald H. Rutledge is in the U.S. Patent office in Washington, D. C. He is residing at 1733 G. street. George V. Sherrill is on the state engineering staff in the Adirondacks. George E. Smith is in the Schenectady Hardware Store on State street. in this city. Roland Stebbins is in the General Electric works, in the test department, Charles G. Stiles is taking up civil engineering with Mr. Gifford of Schenectady: Winslow B. Watson is in the State Barge and Canal office at Whitehall. Harry Q. Wickham has a position in the city engi- neer's office. Statistics show that more students than ever are flocking to the colleges and universities this year. >!: * * * The CoUeg~e of the City of New York Is so over crowded that students find it necessary to sit on the window sills and radiators. The number of students for the winter term is expected to reach the 2, ·5oo mark and there seems to be little doubt but that when the new buildings are completed the student body will num- ber s,ooo. This is an iUustration of a rapid growing eastern col!lege. The distinguishing characteristic of it is the fact that ~it is supported by the city, and this, in a m.easure, accounts for the enormous classes that enter. * * * * Williams is to have a new chapel. It is said to be one of the finest college chapels in the country. * * * * \ I have found,\ said Prof. Bailey, assistant profes- sor of economics at Yale, \that the average student spends $1 ,Ioo a year at Yale. Some spent over $3,ooo, w~1ile others spent as low as $300 per annum. No fabulous sums are ~pent for chance. Expenses for tobacco and intoxicants are not abnormal. I found the men unasualiy desirous of abetting my object. I think most of those rendered were honest records.'' * * * * Hobart has been fined $roo by theN. Y. S. I. A. U. for cancelling a ga_me with Rochester on May z8th, without sufficient excuse. At the same meeting of the board, Colgate was awarded the baseball and track pennants for 1904, and R. P. I. was refused admission By granting the team permission to enter the New to the association. England inter-collegiate tournament at Springfield, Oct. 19-22, the faculty of Williams have recognized golf as a regular branch of athletics at that college. -:}< * * * The freshman class at Amherst numbers I24. * * * * J. S. Huyler, the candy man, has offered to pay half the cost of establishing a big undenominational college at Asheville, N. C. * * * * Brown's campus has been beautified by the building of two fraternity houses, Alpha Delta Phi and Delta Upsilon. Before these were completed there was only one fraternity house on the campus, the Psi Upsilon. * * * * The students of Lehigh have subscribed $r6oo toward their new field house and cage. * * * * The seating capacity of Yale Field is 31 ,4oo. * * * * A new building to cost $roo,ooo is to be built on the campus ·Of the University of Southern California at Los Angeles. It will be devoted to the science departments. * * * * By act of the legislature of Ohio, Miami University will enlarge its Science Hall to about three times its present size and will build a new $4o,oJo dormitory. . * * * * An imposing gateway and stone fence 278 feet long will soon adorn the front entrance to Princeton's campus as a result of the recent $25,ooo bequest of Augustus Van Wyckle of Hazelton, Pa. * * * * Dean Thomas Holgate, the new president of North- western University, elected to succeed President James, has been connected with the university for eleven years. The slight1 There~ curricu sdenti: The for th as 4,1( In I colleg1 of Ha Par show are 1 Ohio Mary Kent are: The are: Gree Gra1 Nort PR \ stuc hou exi~ cha am mit gre cen OUl ma car tor gn w

THE CONCORD!ENSIS. The Freshman class at Princeton numbers 418. a slight falling ·off as compared with the class of 1907. The record still shows a departHre from the old classical curriculum, for there are 81 more applicants for· th.e scientific than for the academic coUJrse. divide our students into diques, or emphasize loyalties which at best sli!onld ever be subordinate to loyalty to the entire coil:lege. Yet, on the !other hand there are some advantages to * * * * . The total registration at the University of .Michigan for the present year has been officially announced be found in such houses. A refinement of life, a type of sodal orgamzation is tllere attainable which it may be difticult otherwise to cultivate. It is po.,sible that the establishment of a few such houses may supple- as 4,1oo. . ment, without ·Nljuring, the present dormitory system. * * * * In point of service, President Eliot i~ now the old.~st college president in America. He has been at the head of Harvard for thirty-five years. * * * * Partial statistics of the freshman ciass of the R. P. I. show the membership to be n6. The following states are represented: New York, 52; Pennsylvania, I 1; Ohio, 5; Connecticut, 4; Illinois, 4; New Jersey, 3; Maryland, z; Missouri, z; Tex~s, South CarO'lina and Kentucky, 1 each. The foreign countries represented are: Cuba, 3; Central Amei:ica, Mexico and Scotland. The cities and villages in this vicinity represented are: Troy, n; Albany, 8, and one each from Cohoes, Green Island, Waterford,. Cambridge, Granville, Middle Granville, Stillwater, Castleton, Schuylerville, Hudson, North Creek. PRESIDENT FAUNCE ON FRATERNITY HOUSES From His Annual Report for 1904. \A ~ovement appears to be in progress among our students and alumni for the establishment of fraternity houses near our campus. One such house has been in existence for some years. Another has just. been pur- chased, and a third will soon be opened. Personally, I am not eager to see this movement extend, for the dor- mitory life of Brown University has always been one great cause of onr sound and sensible democracy. The centrifugal forces of a city are strong enough, without our creating new ones. lt is our aim and hope to maintain such buildings on our campus that students can there' find all that can be demanded of a true academic home. I should be sorry to see our dormi- tories deserted by the very students who do most to give them a wholesome atmosphere and high character. We should protest against any influence that would If, however, such houses are to exist the important duty atoH.ce devolves on fraternity alumni to see that each building is wisely and strkHy controlled and that there is a dear understanding between the administra- tion of the house and the administration of the University.'' BALLAD OF A BOSTON BABY .. It was a Boston Baby, A literary shark, Who cowld rhapsodise in sonnets And speak Hindoo in the darkL Now Baby had a little dog Named \Introverted Past Transmigratory Canine One Upon a Bleak World Cast.n The dog oft proved an epicure For ever and anon, Plump human calves became the food This youngster fed upon. Then quoth the Babe,\ My canine friend May neither read nor talk Yet causeth sore impediment To persons in their walk.\ \ Lo, 'l wiH give a warning And yield the rest to Fate,\ And so he hung a signboard with \Ecce Canis'' on the gate. Kluge stopped a trolly Glr By standing on the track, It gave his saystem quite a jar, Kluge's sister now wears black. -One of the All- Americans. Teacher: Tommy, can you tell me how iron was discovered? Tommy: Yes, sir; I heard papa say the other day that they smelt it.

IO THE CONCORD/ENSIS. ·The Concordiensis. e.A LiterarJ' and ;}(ews Weekl:J! 'Published,by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS. E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. C. HART, 'o5, F. W. MILLER, 'o6, E. G, SIMONS, 'o5, • • Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Asst. Business Manager - Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor Law 'Department Pharmacy Department R. J. NOWELL, 'o5, M. T. RAYMOND, 'o5, ... J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o4, R. B. SMITH, . ASSOCIATE EDITORS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, W. KING, 'o6, D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. 'REED, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. REPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, M. H. ELLIOTT, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, '07, L. S. PARSONS,'o7, H. E. CANTWELL, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, '07, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, G. W. SPIER, 'o7. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football{. F. C. Patton, Captain; L. L. Odell, Manager. B b ·u{ Paul Hagar, Captain; ase a. A. J. Thompson, Manager. r k { M. T. Raymond, Captain; rae W. T. Hunt, Manager. Gl Cl h { B. W. Reed, Leader; ee u · · J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager. I t t l Cl b 5 B. W. Reed~ Leader; ns rumen a u i J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager C . d' . {E. J. Ellenwood, Editor; oncor zenszs L. C. Hart, Manager. G t 5 S. J. Raymond. Editor; arne i A. G. Chapman, Manager. y M C A 5 Malcolm McGregor, President; · · · · · ~ W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. 0 U N I 0 N , 'T:l S 0 F' 1' H E:,E. Evidence of a student awakening to per- nicious cust0:ms vvhich the college has been fain to wink at, and which have been slowly and surely al,ienating the interests of the students then1selves, and dividing into rnany narrow pathways, the one road along which Union life should travel, are as welcome to the editors as the flowers in May. Apathetic has too long been the word to ·dec;cribe the condition of the student body in its relation toward affairs which vitally and directly affect · the welfare of this college. The de rna nd for one 1na1t wbo will dare to stand forth and offer, regardless o.f lzis frater- 1lity, class or society relations, a n1ethod of purging effectively and definitely, the lo\v, n1urky, parasitical politics of Union College, was never as earnest and urgent as no\v. But this subject, broad in one little sphere, everlasting according to present observation, wiH not be dealt with just here or now. We drop it like a live coal that's always bright and always hot. We say that we like to see an awakening to any evils existing here, but the shock that our correspondent Bozzaris g-iv~s to the sleepers, is, in our meagre judgrnent, quite rude .. Such a n1anner seldom inspires the good will and consequent necessary action of those who perhaps wish for rest and peace. Not caring to act as censors of the com- munication, yet we must discredit most em- phatically Marco's insinuation in his question as to \the professors' sympathy,\ etc. Rely- ing on over three years experience to guide us, which apparently the writer of the letter has not had, we would say that he, who shows the least attention to his work and the ' greatest indifference to his standing in scholar- ship, gets the ''sn1allest show of the professors' sympathy and shoving along.\ Other questions and statements are rnade by the author of the letter \vhich seem to lack proof as their foundation. We point€ .stude1 colleg of stu .a disc Ma desirt God blunt ment \V stitu1 Thu: ing i at or any and pros than our ancc two n1a1 that the befc a lor wor I tic1 anc ] fin~ r ce~ COl fai

THE CONCORiJ!ENSJS·. II We believe that an open, free, logica~ and pointed discussion of problems that beset .student life here .. would be beneficial to the college,. but the tendency to .array one body of students against another would choke such .a discussion on its first m·utter. earnest management for the interests of Union? Marco Bozzaris :is all right in pl.lrpose. He desires to strike for his altars and his fires, God and his native land, but his axe is so blunted with incongruity and lack of argu- ment that it isn't likely to cut very deep. THE CROSS-COUNTRY CLUB. \Vhat has becotne of that tirne-honol'ed in- stitution known as the 'Cross-Country ;ci ub ? Thus far nothing has been done toward reviv- ing it and unless a deterrnined effort is:tnade at once there will be no opportunity to take any runs this fall. Now is the tirne to act, and if a beginning is made this~autumn the prospects for next spring wiU be brighter than ever before. One of the crying needs of our track team is the lack of good long dist- ance men, there being only .one )~or possibly two good men in college. Why cannot vve n1ake a start right now and seek to remedy that deficiency? We naturally give credit to the physical advantages accruing, but even before this vve should do what we can to help along the best interests of our college. t P!t:ase won't son1ebody do something? X. CAUSE AND EFFECT. Every student should have tat least two tickets for the concert next Tuesday night, and should be there \Yith sotnebody else. If reports are true, the concert ought to De fine. The attendance is going to decide l1.o\V suc- cessful the Musical Clubs will be during the If you don't, stay away . Under the supervision of lVIL George Clute, the first work on the skating rink has begun . The entire site has been plowed,, and covers almost the whole field stretching in front of the Chi Psi house. THE BOlLING P·OT. DE·EP AND BRINY. We are as waves, that age long m.ove1nent first Which slowly in a thousand years ;;vill change rrhe pounds and extra-mural thing-s ·Of Life. Down crashing falls the beetling Cra.gs of Cu::;- tom, And altered Hes the very floor of Human Insti- tutions. -1\t~lcGill Outlook. * * * * FORCIBLY IMPRESSED. I am deep1y touched remarked the diver as he struck his head on a rock on the bottom.·- Harvard Lampoon. '* * * * ANOTHER FOND HOP::ffi BLASTED. Every one of us enters .college with the hope of here at last being a ieader, and perhaps nine- tenths of us reach the end of the game with an unavoidable conclusion that after all we are pi€bians. -Yale Alumni ·weekly. * * * * NOT MUSCLE BOU~TD. Union is strong in flag carrying and the men bearing the banners understand. that they aro quite as effective in ::p.roducing good playing !).S the songs and yells. -Hamilton Life. * :!: * '* WANTED - AN ANTIDOTE. Wholesome, sympathetic cr,iti~cism is a spur to progress and is ean1estly invited, but supgrcili- ousness is as the poison of asps to the pains- taking editor who has en1vloyed €very available means to make his columns interesting, attrac- tive and stimulating, but who ha-s found it im- possible to keep a stream of perennial freshness. -Queen's University Journal. coming winter. Do you want the college represented throughont the country in a musical way? * * * * TOO BAD'! Do you want to show your appreciation of faithful and painstaking effort and of live, Now, this paper ·cannot, for various reasons, be run on a charitable basis. --'The Triangle ..

. I I2 THE COl'tCORD!ENSJS. =======================================~~===-~-====~======~ ALUMNI. The Alumni Catalogue Cornmittee has prepared the following alumni lists for Philadelphia ar~d Washington, D. C. Additions and correct.i:ons a:re asked for and should be sent to the committee at the Union College Library. PHI:LAnELPH lA. '47.-·· Joseph W. Hunsicker, 309 Stephen ·Girard Building, '47.-George H. Walsh, 1412 Pine street. '48.-J .. Hays Linville, I £7 South 3Sth street. '5r.-Jacob Fry, 7301 Germantown avenue. '54.-Edwin W. Rice, 1122 Chestnut street. '55.-. Augustus A. Feather, 2919 Hartville street. '56~-Charles W. Sanger, Frankford. '58.-Josiah R. Sypher, I9 East Penn street. '6o.-John P. Birch) 38oi Powelton avenue. '6r.-Arthur H. Davis, z6r North 6th street. '61.-Charles Em·ory Smith. '6z.-David C. W. McCorkle, Box 500. '6z.-Edwin Foster Smith, 4I02 Locust street. '63.-Anthony W. Atwood, 8o I Walnut street. '63.-I 5aac W. Heysinger, r 52 r Poplar street. '63.-Isaac E. Roberts, Ii44 North I 3th street. '64.-Walter N. Gourlay, 8og Drexel Building. '64.-Louis Y. Schermerhorn, 5 ro Mariner and Mer- chants Building. '65.-Charles E. Dana, zoi3 DeLancey Place. Y\ '65.-John R. Sa~son, 8149 Ridge avenue. '7r.-Percival J. Parris, 222 Drexel Building. '77.-\:Villiam A. Holman, S. E. Cor. 4th and Wal- nut streets. '8r.-George B. Tullidge, 5400 Lansdown avenue. '84.-Robert R. Benedict, 32 South Broad street. '84.-George E. Fisher, University of Pennsylvania. '87.-Nelson J. Gulick Station G. '93.~John C. McAlpine, 906 Penn Building. '95.-William Allen. 205 Walnut Place. '98.-Malcolm G. Thomas, Univ. of Pennsylvania. ... ) 'o3.-Walter E. Kruesi? 421 McKean Hall, Univ. of Pennsylvania. WASHINGTON, D. C. '37.-William W. Dean, r5r8 Kingman Place. '38.-William H. Burr, 1017 K. street, N. W. '43.-Franklin Moore, I344 Rhode Island avenue. '46.-Walter H. Smith, uq Rhode Island avenue . '48.-Charles C. Nott, Court of Claims. 's.o.-Lew.is S. Wells, 13II N. N. W. '55 .-Sheldon Jackson, Alaska Div., U. S. Bureau of Education. '5:8.-George C. Hazelton, r8r8 F. street. '6o.-- · Weston Flint, uor K; street. '6o.-George W. WormeUe, 207 Elm street. '6z.-Henry N. Copp, 706 Eighth street. '63.-·Chase Roys, 63I F. street, N. W. '67.-Teunis S. Hamlin, I316 Connecticut avenue. '7o.-John J. Freeland, I3 Seventh street, S. E. '71.-· · Thomas F eatherstonhe!ugh, II4 Maryland ave- nue, N. E. '75.-Frank Tweedy, U. S. Geological Survey. '77.-Franklin W. Hough, Atlantic Building. '77.-John C. Pennie; McGill Building. '79.-William W. Childs, zor8G. street, N. W. '8o.-J ames E. Benedict, Smithsonian Institution. '8o.-W. deC. Ravenel, U.S National Museum. '8o.-Philip J. Ryan. 141 r Massachusetts avenue. '8z.-William W. Lewin, 406 Fifth street, N. W. '84.-James J. Kemp, ¢Civil Service Commission. '84.-Pickens Neagle, I5 Io Park street. '85.-Thomas G. Addison, St. Elizabeth Hospital. '89.-Herbert C. Dickinson, 1632 Sixth street, N. W. '9o.-E. T. Pickford, Loio East Capital street. '94.-John Van Schaick, Jr., Church of Our Father. '95.-Edgar Brown, U. S. Dept. of Agnculture. '96.-John B. Anderson, U.S. Bureau of Forestry. '98.-Tnomas A. Crichton, 507 B. st;eet, N. E, ',99.-J .. Irving Gayetty, U. S .. Geological Survey. oz.-GilbertS. Woolworth, LIbrary of Congress. ... : .. /o4.-Archibald H. Rutledge, 173 3 G. street. j~ * * * * '46.-\ After nearly fifty years of labor Prof. Isaac W. Dunham of 347 Summit avenue, is prepared to pub- lish his volume tracing the ancestry of the Dunham families of this country back to Deacon John Dunham of the Mayflower, ·and tracing the ancestors of this Deacon Dunham in England ·back for several centuries. Over 7 ,ooo names will be found in this book, which will be published shortly in Burlington, Vt. ,_. Daily Gazette. * * * * '56.-Rev. DeWitt C. Durgin, President of Hillsdale College, Michigan, from I874 to 1884, is living at 6o Northampton avenue, Springfield, Mass. * * * * '79.-Williarn Walton Craig died at his plantation at St. George, near Charleston, S. C., Oct. 25, 1904. Mr. Craig v Schenec of Alba -years h 'SI.- ·Orchar '98.- teri~n < '99.· N. Y., '01.- the Pl '02. from Chica Hoopt on hi his SE Cong Jan. eng a: ·o~ in tl the 1 RobE '3 man He a ton vog tidy Win pap for to\ \al mg , by1 la~

THE CO.V:CORD!ElVS'lS. I1 Craig was the son ·of James Q. Craig and was born in Schenectady. He was married to Miss Florence Pease of Albany, and is survived by a son. For the last few '60.-- Ex.- U.S. Senator Warner Miller made his first appearance in the speaking campaign of 1904, at the meeting of the Flat bush Republicans, Oct. 27. * * * * -years he has lived in retirement. '63.-lsaac W. Heys.inger has an article \On Some * * * * 'St.-F. W. Moore is in the lumber business at Crab :Cotlceptual Errovs Relating to Force and Matter\ in ·Orchard, Tenn. the Monist, V. 14, No.4· * * * * * * * * ':69.-A repdnt of :the \Last Words of Distinguished W&f\1\ - '98.-- Rev. Walter M. SM'W' is pastor of the Presby- teri~n church at Georgetown, Colorado. * * * * Men an.d Wom·en\ by Frederic R. Marvin of Albany, has been made by the Fleming H. Revell Company. '99.-George E. Sage died at hi'S home In Buffalo, N.Y., Oct. 19, I9o4. * * * * '01.-James W. ·Cheesborough, who is teaching in the Philippines, may be addressed at Manila P. I. * * * * '02.-William H. Gillespie has changed his position from the offices of the Western Electric Company at Chicago, Ill., to those at San Francisco, Cal.-W. Hooper Adams made the college a visit this week, while on his way to the Hartford Theological Seminary for his se~ond year's work. He has been in charge of the Congregational church at White Water, Colorado, since Jan. I, 1904.-Foster G. Morss is with the company engaged in the track elevation at Schenectady. n* * * * '03.-Morris Bloc' is teaching German and Spanish in the Albany High SchooL-Arthur ·D. Peck is with the Meridian Street Railway Co. of Meridian, Miss.- Robert Gordon is a civil engineer at Bloomfield, Ind. * ::t: * * '39.·-An exchange in commenting on the loss of · manuscripts of books says, ''While the Rev. J. T. Headley was eng;aged in the composition of \Washing- ton and His Generals,'' a work that had considerable vogue half a century ago, a chambermaid engaged in tidying his room took it into her head to dean the windows, and seeing what she supposed to be a' 'lot of papers all scribbled over,'' used as much as she needed for wipers, the consequence was that Mr. Headley had to write most of the book over again, for the papers \all scribbled over\ were the manuscript of ''Wash- ington and His Generals.\ * * * * '57 .-Rev. Chester C. Thorne is pastor of the Pres- byterian church at Whindham, N. Y.-J. Willis West- lake is an orange grower at Lake Helen, Fla. * * * * '77 .-Frankilin H. Giddings has an article on ''The American Idea'' in Harper's Weekly for Nov. 5, I904. * * * * '85.-The address of B~njamin S. Guion is New- bern, N. C. * * * * '96.-The address of Major A. Twiford is the New York Athletic Club, New York city. * * * * '97 .--William Alexander Campbell was married to Miss Mary Sm,ith of Schenectady, Nov. 2, 1904. Mr. Campbell is a practicing attorney in New York city. * * * * '98.-Charles H. Kilpatrick has form ally tendered his resig;nation as athletic manager at Wisconsin Uni- versity, to take effect Jan. I, I905. His contract with Wisconsin does not expire until next June. He has received an offer from A. G. Spalding & Bros. of Chicago, which he has accepted on condition of his re- lease by the University. He will take charge of their college trade and will make a valuable man for the firm as he is intimately acquainted with the managers of the various institutions, and very popular with college men. Mr. Kilpatrick's retirement from athletics will be keenly felt by the supporters of the Cardinal, as he was considered as one of the best coaches in the coun- try, and has developed more athletes than any man in the West. Since his advent in Wisconsin athletics he has developed men that hold every collegiate record from the 44o-yard run to the two mile, inclusive, as well as the z2o-yard low hurdle and the running high jump. He will leave the institution with the best wishes of the student body, faculty and alumni, and his loss wiH be keenly felt by all supporters of Wiscon• sin athletics.-Evening Wisconsin. * * * * '02.-Harry L. Crain is president of the Y. M. C. A. at the Auburn Theological Seminary.

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS. THE STUDENTS' 'COLUMN NOTE-(No anonymous uommuntcattons wlll be considered, nor will the editcrf assun1:e te- sponsibility for what may be said below). UNION COLLEGE, Nov. 7, 1904. To the EdHor of the Goncordiensis: Dear Sir:- As a student ·of Union, not a member of a Greek letter fraternity, it will perhaps seem that I am prejudiced in writing this letter, but it ap- pears to me in view of the facts, to be entirely proper. As suggested by \Unius'' in his article in your publication, \Fraternity Spirit vs. College Spirit,\ I would like to follow out the line of argument therein contained and ask a few trite question8 on this vaunted \Fraternity Spirit.\ In class politics, for instance, do the \deals\ gotten up by members of the various Greek letter societies promote the welfare of the college? Fraternity men might deny the accusation that such deals are 1nade, but the fact that they are is self-evident to any college man with open eyes. The present trouble over the sophomore soiree chairmanship illustrates the point sufficiently fo1· the politics of the present time. Again, from campus talk have I gleaned facts concerning a club formed four years ago by cer- tain fraternities which was a disgrace to any colege, rivalling, as I understand, the infamous Tammany Hall. The \Tiger's Eye\ sUll exists, but thanks due to \College Spirit\ after a reign of two short but eventful years this ring was forced to retire to the background because of the calumnies heaped upon it by all fair-minded men in college. Next, in consideration of the fact that several institutions have recently adopted the honor sys- tem, and rumors of the probabilities of Unil)n falling in line, the question comes to my mind- Are the students of Union honorable enough to make the honor system a prosperous institution? Then for questions to ponder upon, Who shows the most spirit in college life, such as turning out to cheer at football games, frat men or neutrals? Who gets the smallest share of the professors' sympathy and shoving along? Who are really the brightest scholars? Who has more altogether of the real \College Spirit?\ What men are free to do, think and act •. ts they please ? Is not \Neutral .Spirit\ more to be desired than \Fraternity Spirit,'' yea, than much fine \F\rater- nity Spirit,'' which like the wind, \bloweth wheJ~e it listeth, and. thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so :i:s everyone that is born of the 'Spirit'?\ . . MARCO BOZZARIS. TRINITY LOSES TO UNION 22-0 Trinity, following the precedent set by numer- ous other teams which came to our campus with hopes of victory, gracefully gave up twenty-two points to the Garnet, receiving nothing in re- turn, in what Bill Smith, in an interview, te,rmetl the \best game of the season. Union, owing to the excellent physical condi- tion of the men, easily won, although numerous plays would bear criticism without being in any way too harsh on the players. The fumbling habit, in particular, seems hard to overcome, and several times when by hard play, the ball had been advanced for good gains, valuable time was lost because someone failed to make proper con- nections with the pigskin. Another weakness was manifested in Union's tackling. Over and over again the Trinity tea1n bore through the Garnet line for distance, owing to the inefficiency .of the tackling on the Union side. The main trouble consisted in the Union line not keeping low enough for effective work, by tackling too high the weight of the opposing line bore them back, and ground was lost \by the yard,\ to be regained only after most deter- mined work. This defect can be easily remedied, as has been proven by the team's work against stronger opponents. In spite of these two faults, the principal one being the fumbling by McN\ab and Shutler, in- dications point out that with steady practice, Union can defeat N. Y. U. in next Saturday's garne. her st vey, P .defen< made; dowec :and t: Hal -consi~ ler cl secon with brokE most In gamE his '1 our 1 -exch: -ened from In seve: the Tl u: Dai1 Pati Von Nut Nor Dar Sh1: Ro' Ha M<J M<

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 SNOWED UNDER garne. The strongest point in U11ion's favor ~s her strong offensive play. Almost at will Har- vey, Patton, Dann and. Moo-re pierced the Trinity ·defence. Never was any determined resistan·:;e made; for, although the Trinity meri were en- dowed with a sup.e·rior amount .of. pluck, weight :and training told str<Jngly against them. Green Mountain Boys Experience :Defeat by Union on November 8 Harvey, Dann and Patton played the mo~;t .consistent games, with Moore, Becker and Shut- ler closely following. One of the best plays of the ga1ne was in tbe second half, when, on our own fifteen yard line, with Trinity trying a drop-kick for g-oal, Becker broke through the defence and blocked an al- most certain score. In the exchange of punts near the end of the game Patton demonstrated his ·superiority over his Trinity opponent, when, after five punts from our five yard line to our thirty yard line, and four exchanges from Trinity, the rrrinity punter weak- ened and the ball was rushed by the Union tearn from too close p~oximity to the goal line. In the last part of the game Union put in several substitutes, Hildreth sho·wing up well in the last few moments of play. The line up: UNION. TRINITY. Daivs (Hildreth) . . . . . . . . . . . . Behr (Gateson) left end. Patton {Capt.) .................... Dougherty 1 eft tackle. Von Dannenburg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lauderbu.cn left guard · Nutt (Gilmore) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Buth centre. Norwood (Kluge) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cameron right guard. Dann e • I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 1 1 1 Lauderfeldt right tackle. Shutler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Marlor . right end. Robinson (McNab) ...................... Lee ·quarterback. Harvey (Cooke) .......... T. Morga~ (Capt.) right half. Moore e I 1 I I I I • I ... I • I I I I' I t I I 1 1 1 1 1 1 0. Morgan left half. Becker (Raymond) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Madden fullback. Union 22, Trini:ty 0. Touchdowns,.-Harvey 2, Moore2. Goals-Patton, 2. While Parker and Davis were be:ing· condemn8d by the voters of the country, Middlebury college was experiencing a similar defeat• at the hands .of Union. One game in one month was the record of the Middlebury college football team prior to the game on election day ancl yet when Pickard made a 52 yard run through Union's right end the boys on the Garnet's bleachers had.. a bad attacK of heart failure which was cured only by McNab's snappy tackle. It was a queer specimen of football which the five hundred spectators watched that day. Union completely outplayed, outclassed and outweighed the visitors, but even at that the ball spent a. great deal of time cavorting about on our terri- tory, more than necessary, it seemed, co·nsider- ing the fact that the final score \Vas 41-0. The students headed by Gartland's Band marched to the campus at 2:30 :p. m. The Mid- dlebury team came on at 2:45 followed immed- iately by Patton and the' Garnet defenders. Middlebury defended the south goal and re- ceived the ball on their 20 yard line. By straight line bucking and shift formation they advanced the ball to the centre of the field but were penal- ized 15 yards for holding. They were forced to punt and Harvey receiving the ball ran it back 15 yards. By line bucking Union shoved the ball to the 3 yard line, when Harvey was pushed over for the first touchdown. Patton ki:cked an easy goal. Score 6-0. Patton kicked to Middlebury's 15 yard line where they quickly lost it. Patton ran '\Vith it 20 yards and scored the second touchdown fro .. :n.. which he kicked an easy goal. Score 12-0. Patton kicked over the line and Middlebury punted out. Union was unable to gain and Pat- ton punted to Middlebury's 15 yard line. Turce, by straight line bucking through the centre, Mid- dlebury made her distance, when they were downed for a loss of 5 yards. A quarterback run was tried but Shutler was too quick for hiln

16 ' THE CONCORDIENSIS .. and downed Cushman in his tracks. Middlebury centre then passed high over quarter's head an(l Kluge falling on the ball rolled over for the third touchdown. Patton kicked goal. Score 18-·0. Moore kicked to Pickard who was downed with no gain. Twice, however, they made their distance but lost the ball on downs. Patton. with four men hanging to him made 23 yards. Mid- dle bury was penalized 5 yards and Harvey start- ing with the ball was downed ·with no gain. Raymond gained 4 yards and Moore was dragged along for 4 additional yards. Patton. ran around the end for 5 yards, scored a touchdown and kicked the goal which made the score 24-0 just as time was called. At the beginning of the second half Middle- bury kicked to Becker who returned the ball ::.:5 yards. Patton made 20 yards but the team was penalized 15 for holding. Patton then punted to Vaughan who was downed by Dann. Middle- bury was penalized 15 yards and the ball was punted to MacNab who ran 15 yards. Becker was finally shoved over for a touchdown. Patton kicked to 5 yard line and Middlebucy gained 15 yards before Von Dannenburg tackle•l Long for a loss of 5. The signal for a punt was given and Pickard received the ball, seeing no one on Union's right end he ran for 52 yarLls before MacNab got him. Middlebury then be- ing forced to punt did so and Harvey got the ball. Union lost the ball but Middlebury was held for downs and it was Union's ball again. Becker gained 5 yards and Moore made a pretty run of 55 yards for a touchdown. Patton kicked the goal. Score 3 5-0. Moore ki!cked to Midd,. who fumbled ball and ahd failing to gain punted to McNab who runs ball to 15 yard Hne. After gains by Dann, Beck- er and Harvey, Moo-re rushed over for the fin'll touchdown. Score 41-0. Gilmour at centre and Kluge at right guard put up anythrng but a good article of football and were both taken out of the gJ:t,me. The game was a ragged one throughout and rese1nbled a prep. • schoot game of second rate. The game although won by a large score need not be taken as indic- ative of success in New York. In order to he successful there the team must get into the .ganre from the sta,rt. The line up was: MIDDLEBURY. UNION. Lon.g . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Davis left end. Nulty Patton left tackle. H. Taylor ................... Von Dannenburg left guard. Caldwell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gilmour (Nutt) centre. Parker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Norwood (Kluge) right guard. Pickard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dann. right tackle. Shephard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ShutL~1.~ right end. Lane (Cushman) .......... Robinson (McNab) quarterback. Vaughan Harvey left halfback. Dodge Mooce right halfback. Pilger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Raynwnd (Becker) fullback. Touchdowns-Harvey, Moore ( 2), Kluge, Becker, Patton (2). Goals-Patton (6). Vrop info Fearey\ s new store and see cwlza.t really fine shoes ca.tZ he hought in Scheneda.dy. FEAREY'S Scfzenectady 230 State St, Macl c. RJ

THE CONCORDIENS!S. I7 BRIGHTON ll;flp GARTER \scored\ at the first try for \goal.\ A \line up\ of Brighton wearers would show nearly two million men. There is no \sub'' for the Bri~hton. The signal for Bri~hton \vlay\ is- .. Comfort- Neatness-Service.'' Made from one piece pure s1lk web with nickel trimmings. Price 25c., at stores or by mail. PIONEER SUSPENDER CO., 718 Market Street, Pllilaclelphia. Makers of Pioneer Suspenders. firthur J. liJhite Successor to MacLean '' 3he College Photographer\' Liberal Discount to College Men. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. Ph.one j 492 Home -~ 47rn H. R. DR .. U GS r:;~~·e~!:~:ndies Anythmg · · · · · and Everything OPEN ALL NIGHT REYNOLDS . CORN_Eg STATE STREET . · t AND THE RAILROAD John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE . . . . MERCHANT TAILOR 35 Maiden Lan.e Alba~y. N.Y. CHAS. Ho:LTZMAN'N &;_ SoN ® 259 STATE ST'REET Hawes Hats are the ideal·college Men's Hats. In buying them we had the men :of Union College in mind. We have shapes that will please you college men. They are $3.00, with our usual c0Uege discount. SuccesRor to GERARD US SMiTE dl.j. 8VlcGEE Dealer in COAL AND WOOD . Telephone 321 140 South 'Centre St. Schenectady~ N. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO . SCH EN ECT ADY'S GREATEST STORE HEADQUARTERS FOR Men's Furnishings of all Kinds Special Prices to Students COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 :(!) S ho\V your College Spirit by oivino- it vour patronao-e b b .I <:::> • @) Orders Attended to Promptly. W. HUNT, '0 5 Silliman Hatl Robsona.lfdee BOOKMEN SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA

!· ADVER TISEJVJENTS. Electric Lighting Appa.ra.tus. Electric Railway Apparat;us. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. Sales offices in all the large cities of the United States. Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE 61/Ailii!VT££0 !ID1~1~~1 BOWLS MADEIN FRANCE Pipes Repaired EYRES, Society Florist. FLORAL EMBLEMS. ARRANGED IN ARTISTJC STYLES. THOUSANDS OF ROSES, CARNATIONS AND VIOLETS ALWAYS ON HAND. I No. Pearl St. Tet 208. Albany, N. Y .. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y .. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK, VEAL. LAMB, HAMS, BACON All kinds of Poultry in ~eason Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty THE FLORIST, 426 STATE STREET Supplies Flowers for Balls, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. • AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York .. Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N. Y. Brooks vVorks, Dunkirk, ~. Y. Pittsburg \Yorks, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. . ,,, .. : .... ]Cooke WorkR, :!!' Paterson,IN. J. A .::Rhode Island vVorks, .,! Providence, R. I. 1 Dickson Works, ; Scranton,' Pa. ' ·';!Manchester vVorks, 'l Manchester,~N.'IH. Locomotive & Machine Co., : Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE. • ( 420 w St F~ or TJ ..411 .. - J.am€ Luca Offi~ Bo

ADVERTISEMENTS. I9 = 'The Gazette ls easl{y the foremost clai{J in Schenectady. ---PRINTERS' INK, Aug. 30~ 1904: CORNELL UNIJ!ERSITY MEDICAL ;C·OLLEGE New York Ci.ty '([HE ·course c?vering four years .begins during the~ first week 1n October and contmues until June. A :preliminary training in natural science is of great : advantage. All the classes are divided in small sections for recita- tion, laboratory and clynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted. to advance standing after · passing the vequired examinations. . The successful completion of the first year in any ., College or U n.iversity recognized by the Regents of the :: State of New Yo·rk as maintaining a satisfactory stand- ----------------------- ard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annualalil.nouncement giving full particulars will Schenectady Railway Compaily ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Tele-phone 4:25 General Office 420 State St. Schenectadyt N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six Formalities, THE \VARSITY MAN WHO WEARS \STEEFEL\' QUALITY CLOTHES HAS THE SATISFACTION OF ICNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRiED. STEEFEL BROTHERS 7 8-80-82 State Street Albany. N. Y. James H. Barhyte Lucas W. Devenpeek Barhyte & Devenpeck Wholesale & Retail Dealers Coal and Mason Supplies Telephones 242 & 242-2 Office lO 6 Union St. S ch.enectady,. N. Y. be mailed 011 application. f/M. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D., DEAN, Cornel'l Unive.rsity Medical College, 27th and 28th. Streets and 1st Avenue, N. Y. City Telephones H. R.. 745-A Home 792 IOJ N()rth Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. MUB10 FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union Oollege-'92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. CorneU University-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. Colgate Unive:rsity-'94:, '95, '96, '97,. '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Williams C()}:lege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton Ccllege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00~ '01, '02. Governor's Nan.sion-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. EDWU\{ POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCurler, .Jay Street BATHS~. Razors Honed ':rhe best equipped shop in the city. All modern. improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor to R. T. Moir :Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steamship Agency 333 State Street Schenectady, lit. Y. WOOD 'BROTHERS MEN'S FURNISHERS 265 STATE STREET Fine Dress Shirts in Manhattan and MonaTch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and Mallory Rats. Crawfory and Foremost Shoes. Home Steam Laundry. '1 I I 1\ . l! l I , I: I: 1\ I. I ( I; ' ' . I ij ' i ,. i 1

i ' !. I. I ' I ,...., :- .. • '1 ~'# •, .: • ~· .. '1:<.,...( •,til;~, i!f' .y-.•n,....- ,~·. ,,~s \\' ' Good Clothes We have a line of suits that for busi- ness, dress or full dress wear hav.e no equal.. Suits that are made from the best materials, fashioned in the most approved styles, tailored in good taste and finished perfectly. Such high-grade manufact-- urers as Rogers, Peet & Co. and others contribute their best productions to our stock. We do not care· how particular you may be about your clothes, we have a suit that will satisfy you in every particular. Our Overcoats and Rain Coats are also very swell. The Finishing That is, the little things that go to make a rnan Touches wen dressed-hats, gloves, neckwear, collars, cuffs, shirts, etc. These goods expFess the nevvest and most approved styles and are perfect in every detail. We also have a very fine line of underwear, hosiery, handkerchiefs, sweaters, etc. BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. ·. . .,.. llfiiR **2?Wriii'-JWW&&&IWJ'i-WAW¥&•&14DN;W ~-~-----~-------------------.,__-·~·· 467 State St. Schenectady STULL BROS. 467 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN HABERDASHERY CUSTOM TAILORING . ~ The 1904 College t ~ .Men -Nill wear ~· ~ - THE 3 INClJ. i~;OUR-IN-HAND THE LARGE ENGLISH SQUARE The bigness a.nd fullness that characterizt·d clothes last season. are just as noticeable features of the fashions for Autumn and Winter. Coats will be 29f inches in length Gloves, Hosiery, Night Shirts, with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in Pajamas, Shirtst Coiiars and length. Cuffs, all strictly high-class goods Plain and fancy browns are the Everything new. latest shades. The particular dresser comes to Shirts and Pajamas made to us, for we dress him in a partie- ! . measure. I ular way. -·-- ~~-=~~~tt«<O'·m=\C:!'!I!IO. ----- .. ~- -- am -

+ + + + THE + + + + CONCORDIENSIS ,_ VOLUME XXVIII NOVEMBER 19, 1904 · PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY •· '·. I .· ----·\\- I . ' I . I . I I I . 'i ! I \ . l I • ' 1 : I l '

I. '/ 2 ADVERTISEMENTS. Union University. ANDREW V. V. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. D., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, 80HENEOTADY, N. Y. I. Course Leading to the Degree of .A. B. 2. Course Leading to th.e Degree of B.S. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 5. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 6. Elecirical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. This differs. from course 4, in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course ]s offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company, un- · der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7· Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates. of courses 4, 5 or 5. For catalogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady; N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany JV:edical CoUege.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita- tion, Clinics, L~tboratory Work. and Pratical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalog·ue s and circulars containing full information, sent on applicati()n to vVILLJS G. TUCKER, l\1. D., Registrar, Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany L:a.w School.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its uRe. The course leading to the deg-ree of LL. B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses. -Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee. $100. For catalogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, W. R. DAVIDSON, Secretary Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany l'I.I:edical Colleg-e Building. For catalog·ue hnd information address, THEODORE .J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N.Y. LOUIS M. CLU1~E FINE G·ROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. F. C. !(RUEGER.& CO. The Upm.to-date Grocery House FULL AND COMPLETE LINE OF GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS. Fruit and Vegetables in their- Season. 142 & l44 STATE Sl\\'REET. Dr. St. Elmo N~ Goetz DENTIST Rooms 7 & 8 Lorraine Block State and Clinton Sts. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. HUYLER'S BONBONS and CHOCOLATES Kodaks, Premos and Photo Supplies. Lyon' .s The Finest Cigars and Drug Store, The Purest- of Drugs. 335 State St., cor. Centre, Schenectady, N. Y. COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N.Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GOWNS and HOODS to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class conf,..acts a. specialty .. \ft/ILSOf\J lJ~.toVIS fv1erchant Tail or 23 7 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. TJ Wr

AD VER TISEllfENTS. 3 THE TENEYCK AL:SANY., N- y_ :I?os5.. t5.. ve~y ::E=\'5..:re-:J?:roof_ European Plan. Most attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITOL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music during evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. H. J. ROCKWELL tU SON KEELER'S Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Resiaurant Attached Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507 ®. 509 Broadway .·.·THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N.Y. The Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in tJze City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. DERBY The best p·lace for \ CA:NDlES, TOBACCO· Ice Crean1, C.igarettes: 511 UNION ST. S 0 D A, C l G A R S Three blocks from the campus -------------- E::;tablished 1845 Incorporated 1900 W. & L. E. GURLEY, TROY, N.Y. Largest Manufacturers in America of Field I nstrurnents for Civil Engineers' and and Surveyors', also makers of Physical and Scientific Instrutnents of all kinds and U. S. Standard Weights and Measures. Dealers in Drawing Instruments, Drawing Paper, Draw- ing Boards, T -squares, Triangles, Curves, Pencils, Pens, Inks, Water Colors and Brushes, Scales and Rules, Rubber, Scientific Books, Anemometers, Barorneters, Thermometers, Magnifiers, Etc. Headquarters for Novelty Suitings. Special attention always given to students by C. GOETZ, Tailor 3 Central Arcade Schenectady, N. Y. E. C. HARTLEY,· Grocer The supplying of Fraternity Houses a specialty. Full J.ine of Tobacco and Cigars. 601-603 UNION STREET For H~ts, Caps, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases, Etc., go to M. MANN'S' Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE The L;.,rgest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with house. 29 Front Street Schenectady, N. Y.

4 ADVER T'JSEMENT.S. Photographs LEVI fMOORE 15 Nortk 'Pearl St.~ Albany~ N. Y. S·pecial R.ates to Students A.ppointments by Mail or Telephone HOPKINS & CO. ~ ~ We make our oc:wn clothing .. ~ ~ 64 North Pearl St. COLLEGE TAILORS AND CLOTHIERS ALBANYt N. Y. Our fall and winter line of brown suitings and overcoat- ings is now complete in the Custom Tailoring, as well as Ready-to- Wear Dep't., and our designs for young men cannot be e~ce/led. \¢7'''~ Suits and Overcoats from $15.00 to $60.00 The Sch\enectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Buildins lll and :ns State Street cALLEN' S 'BOOKSTORE 508 FULTON ST .• TROY. N. Y. cll:ll Union College Text Books Second Hand and New~ in stock Long Distance Telephone LIMMER & EVANS •• Florists .. Van~u-rler CDpera !)ouse LORRAINE BLOCK Both Phones STATE STREET C. :H. BENEDICT Manager TELE·PHONE No.Jl5 ·.1·.·· I ' V0.1 - UN'lO By H< In t to fit : few S 1 thems standj most of thE: colle~ civil tion and 1 erat( In lege: subj Cor: ran: ln ( 1. Sta thE He Sb Cl: of ia a~ ir t~ t

T ·····-·· H E CoNC·ORDIENSis VOL. XX;V/11. UN!O.l\1 COLLEGE, NO f 7 . I9, I904. No.9 UNION ·COLLEGE MEN IN THE STATE CIVIL SERVIICE. By Horatio M. Pollock, '95, Senior Exa~miner State Civi:l Service Commission. In this country colleges make no special effort to fit men for work in the civil service and very few students enter with the view of preparing themselves for the service of the State. N otwith- standing this fact, college men are found in al- most every branch of the government and in some of the departments almost all the leading men are college graduates. As a rule the entrance to the civil servi·ce has been an advance from the posi- tion they had been able to secure in pri-vate life and they have accepted it not as a result of delib- erate planning but as a fortunate opportunity. In the New York State civil service many col- leges are represented. Although statistics on the subject are hard to obtain, it is probable that Cornell leads and that Union is second. The wide range of technical and agricultural courses taught i·n Cornell accounts for her leadership. Union is especially fortunate at this time in the State engineering department. At the head of the department as State engineer aJLd surveyor is Henry A. Van Alstyne, Union, '93. Next to the State engineer is the deputy State engineer, Charles W. Trumbull, Union, '92, and at the head of the eastern section of the canal work is Will- iam B. Landreth, Union, '81. Under these men are more than a score of Union men etnployed as assistant engineers, draughtsmen, levelers, inspectors, rodmen and chainmen. Several of these are occupying responsible positions and their work will be of great importance to the State during the building of the barge canal. Among them we note Edwin V. R. Payne, H. P. Willis, Russell Greenman, Orson Richards, 0. J. Dempster, Byron E. Failing, Pittson J. Cleaver, ~\ :N:~ Sanders, E. A. Lamb, Charles H. McCul- lough, George A. Ensign, Fred J. vVagner, Carl Bannister, Guy H. Miller and It. J. Hemstreet. As • . t all these engineers received their positions by ap- pointment in order frQrn civil service lists, much credit is reflected on the engineering course given by Union. One of the chief features of New York State which excite the envY of othe,r states is the forest preserve. The great wooded section of the State in the Adirondacks and Catskills which offers so much of pleasure and health to the people of the State is now being carefully guarded and cared for by skilled foresters under the direction of CoL William F. F'ox, Union, '60. Colonel Fox: is not only developing the, property of the State but is also awakening the interest of the people of the State in the beauty and value of trees for shade and decoration. His recent work on \Tree Planting on Streets and Highways,\ will do mueh in assisting people to beautify their homes and towns. In a related field but from a different stand .. ' point is the work of the State botanist. Charle~:~ H.'8.. Peck, Union, '59, who has filled this. Important position so ably for thirty-seven years, is a scien- tist and an investigator. He is a recognized authority on the fungi and is an expert in sys- tematic botany. Another Union graduate who has rendered long and faithful service in the State is William H. Shankland of the class of '62. Mr. Shankland has held the highly responsible position of cierk of the court of appeals for over twenty-two years. In the State architect's office Union's repre- sentative is Howard M. West, of the class o.f 1896. As structural engineer Mr. West has to pass judgment on all plans for the erection of new State buildings, to assist in constructing water and sewer systems for State institutions, and to perform other like duties which require great judgment and skill. Mr. West's predecessor was Walter L. Lawton, Union, '94.

6 THE .CON~CORDTElVSIS. The agricultural college at Cornell furnishes most of the experts for the department of agri- culture. Ho\\vever Union has two representadves in this department in the persons of Charles L. Enders, of the class of '96, and Edward P. Mc- I<:eefe of the class of '9 7. Mr. Enders is an in- spector of nurseries and Mr. McKeefe is one of the leading chemists of the depart·ment. In the. State library we find as assistant libra- rian Peter Nelson, Union, '96, formerly librarian at the college. In the State insurance department a recent appointee to a lucrative position ~s Mr. Charles E. Heath of the class of 1904. Several graduates of the Albany Medical Col- lege are in the State service. Among these a,re the resident physician of the New York State hospital for consumptives at Raybrook, Dr. Willis E. Merriman, Jr., Union, '98, and the assistant physician of the Elmira reformatory, Dr. D. L. Van Der Zee, also of the class of '9 8. Of the five men employed in the State civil ser- vice commission two are Union graduates. Fred M. Eames, Union, '95, the technical examiner, has charge of the examinations for steam, electrical and civil engineering positions. From this brief review of the work of the Union men now employed by the State, it will be seen that the in:f:h;t.ence of our college is felt to no small degree in the State government. Let the men now in college see to it that such influence does not dimin:sh. \THE BIBLE; WHAT IT IS-WHAT IT IS NOT\ Dr. Hoffman Begins His Series of Talks At the Sunday afternoon vesper servjce there was a large number of students present at Si11i- 1nan Hall to hear the first of Dr. Hoffman's talks on \The Bible; What it is-What it is Not.\ The talk was informal, Dr. Hoffman beginning by asking that the students give their co-opera- tion in making the subject interesting by asking any questions which might occur to them. In part, Dr. Hoffman said: \In the beginning discussion on the Bible itself will to a large e:x- tent l>e left out and we will determine in what stat.e of mind it is to be considered. '''Ought we to go to our Bible for the origin of re:Ngton? It would not be logical to do this as an pe-oples have a BibTe of some kind and whether they admit it or not, all men have some kind of a r81ligion, religion being a more or less definite reia.H-<>n to sorne higher power. How are we, then, to determh1.e the worth of our Bible? The stanritard of estimation must be within ourselves and not in the Bible as our judgment of it, as of aay object, rrtust be made according to our condi-tions. The value of any object •constantly rises or falls according to the conditions under whi<!h it is placed and we must continually apply this fact to our Bibles. Every age is contributing its interpretation on the Bible. To some, certain points are of great value, while to others they are 0:f comparatively little value. lias anyone the right to say a priori that he is going to believe everything in the Bible? Must he not apply to it the same methods of thought that he applies to everything else in the world? It is the business of all to know as much as pos- sible ()f the world in general and then make their judg.:~nents according to their knowledge. Our estinate of the Bible and what it is should depend upo1.1 the light that it throws upon the present needs of civilization.'' Later Dr. Hoffman said: \In order that one may :fully appreciate these talks it is necessary to be present at every meeting and to keep clearly in mind the line of argument. The next talk will be on. sqme things that existed long before the Bible was written and -vvhich must be presup- posed if we are to get an intelligent view of its contents.\ COLLEGE MEETING. Meeting called to order by President Losie. Messrs. King, Patton, Hunt and Odell speak on N. Y. U. ga1ne. Mr. Reed announces the first concert of the Glt>e Club this season for Tuesday evening. Mr. Arms speaks on skating rink and hockey team, asking for the election of a n1anager next Monday morning. lY.I€eting adjourns. The ing n comm ment SawyE quish~ pute to fo howe pro vi Uon Glt the ~ a ga clas~ GOO( Mau getb a g< M defE deb soh the I beE COl cai pi< elE of ju u h: t~ f 1

7 THE CONCORD!ENSIS. = COLLEGE BRIEFS·. The two p-rincipa~s in the ·controversy concern- ing the chairmanship of the sophomore soiree committee, ras:t week. carne to an amicable agree- ment concerning the cause of the trouble. Mr. Sawyer, by the terms of the agreement, relin- quished the position to Mr. Fairbairn. All dis- pute being thus settled, a. soiree fully coming up to former standards, is assured. This trouble, however, will arise ann11:ally unless some definite provision is made concerning the method of elec- tion of the soiree chairman. Gloversville High School succeeded in holding the sophomore football team to the score @ -0 in a game at Gloversville last Saturday. The Union classmen played the rnost offensive throughout. Good playing was especialy n~arked in Wheadon, Maure and Fairbairn. For so little practice to- gether 'it is reported that the sophomores played a good game. McGregor and Franchot for the affirmative defeated Hart and Richardson in an A.delphic debate W~dnesday night on the question:· Re- solved, that the presid.en.t and vice president of the U. S. be elected by popular vote. Professor Barnes and Librarian Brown have CHI PSI RECEIVES PICTURES The Gih of a Fraternity Alumnus The Chi Psi fraternity .of Union College has been presented with two handsome engravings, o-ne of Harrow College and the other of Eton, both of England. The pictures were engraved an.d presented to the fraternity by Kenard C. J{reyer, a graduate of the Rochester University -with the class of 1887 and a member of the Chi Psi fraternity. Mr. Kreyer is a famous painter in. England and is official engraver for the King of EJn.gland.. The pictures are each 26 by 38 inches and are brown in color. The picture of the school occupies the centre while around the edge is a border of pictures of fan1ous graduates. Artists who have seen the pictures are loud in their praises of the workmanship and the artistic ability shown. The pictures are now at the a,rt store of M. C. Ster'ling, where they will be framed in Sepia, com- monly known as London smoke colored wood. They will be on exhibition the latter part of this week in the display windows of Mr. Sterling's store. Pi Phi Alumni Organize been appointed by the Board of Trustees as a committee to prepar·e material for an alumni catalogue which it is proposed to issue next year. White, the new college photographer, took a picture of the football squad last Thursday. A club was formed last week which is to be known as the Pi Phi Alumni Association of Union College. Sixteen students in college representing three chapters constitute the membership. The meeting decided to have a page in the .coming \Garnet.\ The officers elected are as follows: Prof. Chas. P. Steinmetz has invented an electrica'l machine by which a new arrangement of generating coils may be made. T. D. Coffin, 'G2, lectured recently before the junior and senior engineers on \Water Filtration.\ Under a resolution of the Board of Trustees~ the Librarian is to have additional assistance in his work. Classes 1906 and 1907 have had their pictures taken for the new ·Garnet. All the senior and junior histories have been handed in. Peter Nelson, '98' Hooper Adan1s, '02, and L. W. Irish, '04, have visited the college recently. - The freshmen football team will play Ridge- field A. C. today. A ga}lle of association football was played on the campus last Saturday between two G. B. teams. President, Eric King, '05, Kappa. Secretary, Fairbairn, '07, Kappa. Treasurer, Van Olinda, '08, Eeta. Executive committee-Chairman., Thomson, '05, Beta; Minahan, '08, Beta; Collins, '08, Lambda. Freshmen Officers \The officers of the freshmen class have been given out as follows: President, Carlos Hafley; vice president, Henry W. Bell; secretary, Daniel J. Bennett; treasurer, S. H. Cabot. The committee who arranged the banquet consisted of William T. Hildreth, chair- roan; H. M. Bartholomew, W. F. J3ell, F. S. Cabot, and J. L. Bacon, Jr.

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. MUSICAL CLUBS PLEASE LARGE AUDIENCE. First Appearance Extremely Gratifying to Union People-Prosperous Year Assured. After a year's inactivity, the musical clubs have revived and have made their bow, perUm- .. inary to the year's work. In other words, the first concert of the year was given last Tuesday evening in the Emmanuel Baptist church. The hQuse was filled, to the great encouragement of the management. StiH better, there were many present who are not directly connected with the coBege, proving that the people of Schenec- tady are ready and willing to patronize the ·musical clubs. Messrs. Stevens and ~eed surely deserve credit for the manner in which the entertainment was run off; Mr. Stevens for the business end, and Mr. Reed, leader of the clubs, for the point to which he has brought the fellows with so .. little practice as they have had. It was hardly the fault of either of these that the comings and goings of the clubs upon the platform were not as smooth as they might have been, particularly in the case of the instrumental club. Owing to the limited space on the platform, the members of the. latter club were obliged to carry their chairs on and off at every appearance. Far be it from the mind of a humble scribe, and•one little versed in musical matters, to crit- icize too strongly th~ makers of thE; evening's en- tertainment, but it does not seem as if full justice • were done to the college in the line of songs. Where, for instance, were those two songs which are never missed when two or three Union men are gathered togetherJ. the \Song to Old Union/' and \Union Beside the Mohawk Vale''? The audience was not so strange to Union's ways and customs thdt either of these would have been amiss. The concert was opened shortly after eight o'clock, the first number being a snappy little song entitled, \The Three Bumble Bees.\ It was heartily encored, as was nearly every other selec- tion on the program. The \Bedouin Love Song,\ ,' the only single number of the evenin.g, wa,s ex- 'Cellently !rendered by H. W. Bell, ':08, who pos- sesses an excellent voi,ce which he uses to good effect. An entertaining part of the program was when, encored at the end of the seventh selection, the Glee Club gave the last verse o·f the .song in pantom.in.e, giving gre~t enjoyment to the audi- ence and not a little to the actnrs i:n it, as was evidenced by their expressions. The hit of the evening was a song entitled \The Faculty.\ It was written by O'Neil, '9'7, who is now a surgeon in the Philippines, and was sung by the quartette, assisted by the Glee Club on the chorus. The selection, .set to a rollicking measure and taking off various prominent members of the faculty, took well and was roundly a:ppl'auded for several minutes. J. R. STEVENS, Jr., Manager. One of the nicest bits on the pr·ogram, Handel's \Trust in the Lord,\ failed to mak.e the impres- sion that it should. Whether this was the fault of the club or of the audience, it was hard to tell. As a try-out, Tuesday evening's entertainment was very successful. It gives the fellows confi- dence in themselves, which is by no means an easy thing to acquire. The next concert, which will probably be held in the Van Curler, will be more than a venture and the clubs can safely vary the program a little more than thjs last one. A few more \stunts\ would add materially to the popularity of the club and also enliven tne melt as well as their audience. 'The whole club lacked the ease and jocund manner which is always .so characteristic of college men. The an Gth izing a seleeti whtch club. Am here, The g can 1:: in th tenor Wi tion~ bu.t: com as so ( e

THE :CONCORDIENSfS. 9 Th.e members of the Instrumental Ci ub injured an @therwtse exceHent impression by not memor- izing all their music, and marred their fine second selection by giving a pooe encore, ''Teasing,\ whkh had never been practiced by the whole club. Among the students, and! their opLnion counts here, the quartette was a decided disa:ppointment. The general feeling is that it is not the best that can be selected from the voices that were heard in the songs. of the Glee Club. First and second tenors especially, it was said, should be improved. With all weighed in and. coun.ted, the concert to everybody came as an agreeable surprise.. To be sure there are numerous places for modifica- ti·ons and many rough edges to be snoothed over, but none are so serious that they cannot be over- come wtth hard work which Leader Reed and his associates show much pro·mise of doing. The city papers commented on the concert as follows: B. W. REED, Leader. •'After a lapse of several years, a Union College G'lee Club again ap:peared before the public last evening in the Emmanuel Baptist church and ga;ve a ·concert of which all friends of the college are justly proud. The thirty students who com- pose the clubs have been working earnestly for the past six weeks in anticipation of their first concert and the s1:1ccess they met with must have been flattering to them.''-Evening .Star. \Music lovers, and more parUcularly admirers of eodlege music, were afforded a rare treat at the fi.rst concert of tbe newly re-organized glee and instrumental Clubs .of Union CoUege, in the Emmanuel Baptist church last evening. The large auditorium of the church was well fil1ed with representatives of local society, who ap- plauded emphatically fine renditions of the old Union songs. It was a real Union College audi- ence, and hence demonstrative.\-Daily ·Gazette. The first r·eci tal of the Glee and Instrumental Clu b.s or Union College was held in Emmanuel Baptist chur.ch last night. The entertainment was a success in every respect and the efforts of the clubs were appreciated by a large audi- ence. Encores were demanded after every .se·lec,., tion. The clubs showed that they had done hard work and the men deserve great praise.\-Daily Union. The program: PART I. The Three Bumble Bees .................. Steele Glee Club. In London r:Fown .......................• Astin Instrumental Club. What's the Matter With the Moon Tonight. Sloane Messrs. Bishop, Reed, Bell and Kline. Doan Yo Cry, Ma Honey ............ A. W. Noll Glee Club. Bedouin Love Song ...................... Anon Bell, '08. Medley Popular Airs Instrumental Club. PART II. Daniel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . Anon Glee Club. J3uds and Blossoms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doyle Instrumental Club. In Silence • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••• $ Sloane Quartette. Trust in the Lord ...................... Handel Glee Club, Violins, Cello and Pian·o. Terrace Song . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ludlow, '56 Glee and Instrumental Clubs. SHOWIN,G THEIR COLORS. It has been remarked this year that all upper- classmen. remove their hats when meeting one o:f the professors while the freshmen keep their hands in their pockets. -The Madisonensis.

IO THE ,CONCORDJENSIS. The C d . . ' oncor · Iensls,. d1 L£terarJ' and {](ews Weekly 'Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. BOARD OF EDITORS. E. J. ELLENWOOD, 'o5, L. C. HART, 'o5, F. W. MILLER, 'o6, E. G. SIMONS, 'o5, R. J. NOWELL, 'o5, M. T. RAYMOND, 'o5, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FlERO, 'o4, R. B. S.MITH, Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Asst. Business Manager Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor All:lmni Editor Law Department - Pharmacy Department ASSOCIATE EDITORS. G. F. HALL, 'o6, W. KING, 'o6, D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, L. H. PEEBLES, 'o6. REPORTORIAL STAFF. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, M. H. ELUOTT, 'o7, W. T. MCINTOSH, 'o7, L. S. P ARSONS,'o7, H. E. CANTWELL, 'o7, W. E. WELLER, 'o7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, W. S. SPEIR, 'o7. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. h tb ll {F. C. Patton, Captain; 00 a L. L. Odell, Manager. { Paul Hagar, Captain; Baseball A. J. Thompson, Manager. r k { M. T. Raymond, Captain; rae W. T. Hunt, Manager. Gl Cl h {B. W. Reed, Leader; ee u J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager. 1 t t 1 Cl b j B. W. Reed. Leader; ns rumen .a u I J. R. Stevens, Jr., Manager C d . . {E. J. Ellen woo. d, Editor; oncor zenszs L. C. Hart, Manager. G t { S. J. Raymond, Editor; arne, A G c·h M . . apman, anager. y M c A .) Malcolm McGregor, President; • • • • ,l W. G. Mcintosh, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year, in Advance Io Cents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. CLASS ATH'L.ETlCS Coach Smith bas dispelled all doubt as to his opinion on the subject by stating definite- ly that he favored class athletics. It seems strange that the notion that he was opposed to them, should get so widely diffused around the college as to seriously hinder their progress. But it has. One has but to go to the ¥. M. C. A .. and see the former cltass trophies to understand the interest that was once taken in class athletics. Those were the times when we had our best athletes and our best athletic teams. It doesn't appear to have injured 'varisity teams in any way. Bill Smith says that it won't now. He says that it will bring out new m·aterial, and tend to make a healthy athletic spirit more general among the students. We go further and say that, by regularly sending out class teams of all kinds around the country to compete with the preparatory schools., :vve e~nploy an easy and effective method of drawing men to Union. We are opposed, by th~ way, to sending out teams which contain two or three fresh- men under the narrt-e of sophomores, or to sending out a freshmen team that is not ali freshn1en. It won't pay in the end even if victory follows. Class athletics arc dead here because they lack the things that make life. There is no one system to control them, no definite rules to define their course. The awarding of numerals has becon1e well nigh a farce, and they are of no rrtore value or honor to the wearer than a bunch of daisies. However they look well on a sweater. There is lacking sorneone to take the initiative, someone to propose a method of establishing regular sophomore and freshmen teams with regular schedules that must be played. Numerals should not be thrown around like hand bills. A ··heal befo A last Jus1 up: sorr \' fror ap . spr: I fro1 am . got ., wo at . 1m te<: sa1 ex m w . Vl 'I fc \' f:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. II Anyhow if these things cannot live in a -·healthy condition, they ought to be kiHed before they suffer any longer. L.Es·T WE FO·RGET. Apparently the trials and tribulations of last spring's baseball season are not ·oVer. Just after the old suit is c1eaned and patched up and laid away for the winter, along comes s~rnebody and points out a stain right on the front, which has got to be wiped off before a presentable appearance can be made next .. ·sprtng. Little satis~action is going to be derived . frC?tp blaming anybody now. Soliloquizing among ourselves as to how it happened isn't going to vindicate what didn't happen at all. We know how the student body here would feel if a large crowd should be present at what was expected to be one of the n1ost important garnes, only to find no opposing tean1 as scheduled, or no explanation to satisfy the inevitable criticisms: We know what the student body would expect of the other College in such a case. Unfortunately we are the other College. Chapel meeting should be long Monday morntng. HARE AND HOUNDS· Four years ago, a hare and hound chase was held here during the Thanksgiving vaca- tion and was successful from every point of . VleW. Most of the students will be here over Thanksgiving, the weather promises to be favorable, it would be new and interesting, so why not propose one Monday tnorning? SMOKER. ALBAN;Y HIGH SCHOOL CLU,B. The Albany High School Club met at Silliman Hall last Monday aft€rnoon and elected the fol- lowing .officers: Louis C. Hart, president. Arnold G. Chapm:;tn, vice pre.sidea t. Williain S. _Speir, secretary. Harry _Qook, tr.easu:rer. ,. . Of the twenty-one m.embers there were fifteen pr~sent. O.f these there are ten previous rnem- bers of the olub and eleven new members. It was decided to hold .a banquet during winter term; arrange for a111 insert and photograph of the club in the 19'06 Garnet and send a copy of the Garnet to the 1\.lbany High School. Each member of the club agreed to do an in his power to induce new Alban-y men to come to Union, and noted with pride the increasing membership of the club. Dr. Ellery is an alumnus of the Albany High School and has joined the club as a, faculty member. The m·embership at present is: Faculty-Dr. Ed'\\rard Ellery. 1905-George M. Elm.endorf, Louis C. Hart, Thomas E. McGuir'k, 190 6-Arnold G. Chapman, Philip L. Classen, HarTY C. Cook, George F. Hull. 1907-James G. ::Brennan, Joseph Dillon, Wil- liam S. Speir. 190 8-Henry W. Bell, Emanuel H. Bocian, Joseph Caplan, Walter J. Clark, Jared S. Horton, Cortland T. Mahar-, Charles F. Mulrooney, Ed- ward J. Penrose, Raymond Shelley, Frank R. Stevens. The photograph of the club ·will be taken on the steps of the Ro1:1nd Building on Monday, Nov. 21st, at 1:45 p. m. Thanksgivin§?; -vvill result in tbe dtsappear- ance of the Concordiensis until Decetnber 3· If all our differences, our d ickerings, and our sn1a'll intrigues for college \honors\ could be settled by a fl.ip of the coin, ho\V sweet this life \vould be:t WITH BREAKERS AHEAD. Next Tuesday night the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity will give a smoker at their house. The smoker is given prin1arily to the foot- ball team, and all the upper class n1en are In the case of college honors, Ute fraternity . which pushes a man into office without consid- eration of bis ability to fulfill the duties of that position, simply invites dishonor and disgrace upon itself. -Amherst -student. invited to attend.

I2 ·THE CO./llCORDIENSI.S'. Y. M. C. A. At vesper service last Sunday, Prof. Hoffman gave the first of a series of talks on the Bible. 'The second .of the series will be given tomorrow afternoon at 5 o'clock. That these talks will ibe of great interest, goes without say.ing. By his first talk, Prof. Hoffman showed that he was going to treat aspects of the subject that one is very liable to overlook. The attendance at the meeting last Sunday was by far the largest for any meeting this term. The week of prayer for young men was ob- served by the Association by holding a short meeting every night during the week, with the exception of Saturday. These meetings were led by the president, who, each evening, read a short account of the work done during the p:;:tst year by the different departments of the Association throughout the country. As the general topic for the week was prayer, a greater part of the meet- ings was spent in prayer for the different depart- ments of tl1e Association. Although the attend- ance was not large, a great spirit of devotion seemed to prevade each meeting. The following co-llege papers, not mentioned in the last report, a:re to be found in the reading room at Silliman Hall: Daily Nebraskan-University of Nebraska. Record-Williams. University Journal-· Queen's University. Alumni Weekly-Yale. University Monthly-Alfred. Herald-Hobart. The two games recently given to the Associa- tion were presented by Ass't. Treasurer Pond. Pictures of the 190 4 baseball and track teams now adorn the walls of Silliman Hall. The Cabinet had its picture taken for the Gar- net Thursday. Don't fail to hear Prof. Hoffman's talk Sunday afternoon. · Y~ ·M. C. A. IN OTHER COLLEGES 1\![r. John W. Lewi~ is the new general secretary of the New York University Association. A Bible S;tudy and Missionary institute was held at Lafayette, Nov. 12-13. The Association of the University o!f Nebras1l.;..a. has recently organize€!. a branch at the farm of the agricultural department. Last year, $160 was contributed to foreign missions by Southern University, Greensboro, .A_ra. At the first meeting at the University of Mis- souri, five decided to ,enter the Christian life. About 225 men were present. At Cornell University, 250 st;adents have al- ready been enrolled in Bible classes. Classes are already arranged for twelve .of the leading fra·- ternities. President Schurman and two members of the faculty wiH train the leaders in special classes. The Pacific Coast Stadent Conference will meet at Pacific Grove, Cal., Decembet 30 to January 8. AL,UMNI. .ALBANY. '44.-Theodo.re Townsend. '54.-· Wm. D. Murphy, 103 Central Ave. '55.-Henry D. Burlingame, 50 State St. '59.-Charles H. :Peck, Geological Hall. '60.-William F. F.ox, 342 Hudson Ave. '61.-John M. BaHey. '62.-James L. Bothwell, 160 EJ,m St. '62.-Joseph M. Lawson. '62.-John E. Sherwood, 2 High St. '63.-Amasa .J. Parker, 14 Washington Ave. '64.-Frederick M. Newman. '6 5 .-Henry Grahan, 5 North Pine Ave. '65.-Marcus T. Hun, 31 Elk St. '65.-Lewis H. Rockwell, 206 Elm St. '66.-Matthew Bender, 108 Lake Ave. '66.-William Loucks, 760 Madison Ave. '67.-James N. Fi·ero, 100 State St. '67.-Henry C. Littlefield, 231 Madison Ave. '67.-William H. Murray, 290 Lark St. '67.-Edward D. Ronan, 22 Willett St. '69.-Frederic R. Marvin, 537 Western Ave. '71.-Emmet T. Waterman, 383 First St. '72.-William J. Hillis, 21 Lancaster St. '72.-Charles H. Mills, 14 Pine Ave. '73.-William P. Rudd. '7 4.-James F. Barker, 54 Clinton Ave. '75.-Hezekiah Smith, 119 ·South Swan St. '75.-Edward B. Wooster, 1 Englewood Place. '76.-Franklin T. Hastings, 136 South Knox St. '76.-William P. Newman, 64 South Swan St. '77.-.-.John A. Delehanty, 38 or 451 State St. '78.-Lewis Cass, 152 Elrn St. '78.-Charles M. Culver, 36 Eagle St. '78.-Hugh H. Dey Ermand, 248 Hudson Ave. . . '78 '79 '7 9 '80 '8(] '8 ( '. -''8( '8: '8: '8 .Ave· '8 Alb~ '8 ~~ '~ Bui ,, ' ,, ' 0

tHe· CQ».VCORDIEiVSIS . . ·'78.-· ·John J. O'Hara, 24 Fir~t St. '79.-Job:n ].;:J~ l?arsons, 256 Lark. St. '7 9 .. -· Charles Stanford, 15 6 .St~te St. '8 0.-Wilber E. Anderson, D. & H. Co. '80.-Joseph D. Craig, 1.2 T·en Broeck St. '80.-Andrew H. DoughertY, 57 North ;pearl St. .. -''80.-· · David Nuhlfelder, 50 Jay St. , '81.-F'rederick W. Cameron, 251 State St. '81.-William B. Landreth, 434 Clinton Ave. '84.-·-Andrew MacFarlane, 198 Washington Avenue. '99.-Frank H. Fisk., Jr., 1 Clinton Square. '99.-Harold J. Hinman, 8i Chapel St. '99.-·-Geo:rge G. Rowell, 81 Chapel St. '.99.-Wen:tworth Tucker, 395 Broadway. '·99.-.James N. Vander V·eer, 28 Eagle St. '·O·O . ...,-:&te.JvM:t·•T':··\E~.der 1@8 L~ke Ave. 'OO.~Lester 'r. Hubbard, 4.67 Broadway . '00.-·-Charles li. F. ReiH'Y., 25 North Pearl St. '01.-· -John H. C0oik, 12 Mac)?hersnn. Terrace. 'Ol.~!P. W. Finger., 250 Delaware Ave. ~ ''OL~Porter L. Merriman, 5 Maine Ave. '01.--Leopold ~in.ldn, 223 State St., or 37 '84.-Charles B. Templeton, *5 Lake Ave., or Albany County Bank Building. Mai-den Lane. '02.-Lester W. Bloch, 3'76 Madison Ave. '85.-Thomas J. Delaney, 6 Cross St. '85.-John S. Hoy, 219 Lark St. '85.-Nathaniel B. Spalding., 12-13 Waterman Building. '86.-Thomas C. Lavvier, 350 North Pearl .St. '86.-Jesse M. Mosher, 170 Washington Ave. '87.-Charles F. Bridge, 600 Madison Ave. '87.-Edward M. Cameron. '87.-George W. Furbeck, 522 Central Ave. '87.-William B. Wemple, 72 Pine Ave., North. '88.-George C. Baker, 444 Broadway. '88.-Charles W. Blessing, 157 Hamilton St. '88.-James E. Smith, 246 Washington. Ave. '8 8.-Michael D. Stevenson. '89.-· M. H. Begley, 54 Church St. '89.-Charles H. Flanigan, 44 First St. '90.-S. Edgar Templeton, 217 South Pearl St. '92.-· E. N. P. Dailey. '92.-.Jeremiah V. Wemple, 190 First St. '93.-Ernest A. Lamb, 385 Hudson Ave. '93.-Arthur .J. Roy, Dudley Observatory. '93.-Henry A. Van Alstyne, State Engineer's Office. '94.-Elwood G. Blessing, 71 State St. '94.-Walter L. Lawton, 132 Chestnut St. '95.-Warren R. Borst, 69 Eagle St. '95.-Bryan 0. Burgin, Albany High School. '95.-Fred M. Eames, 31 North Swan St. '95.-Walter S. McEwan, 461 Western Ave. '9 5.-Howard Pemberton, Jr., 55 Tweedle Bldg. '9 5.-Horatio M. Pollock, State Civil Service Com1nission. '95.-Edgar A. Vander Veer. '96.-Russell S. Greenman, 433 Clinton Ave. '9'6.-How_ard M. West, 39 Jay St. '97 .-L. K. Devendorf, 68 State St. '97 .-T..~yn.n M. Schofield, 4 5\6 Hamilton St. '97.-H. P. Willis 1 State Engineer's Office. '98 . .,.-John A. _Best, 153 First St. '9 8.---Joseph G. Delaney. '02.-.-Walter A. Cowell, 94 First SL '02.-Walter E. Hays, 64:6 Central Ave. '03 . .....-Morris Bloch, 376 Madison rAve. '03.-Artnur P. Clark, Albany Medical College. '03.-Morey G. Collier, 98 Eagle .St. '03.---:C~linton B. Hawn, 15 Manning Square. '03.~0tis. F. Lewis, 17 Myrtle Ave. '03.---James G. Perkins, 186 First St. '04.___:Thaddeus G. Cowen, 94 First St. '04.-J. Lewi Donhauser. '04:.-Edward D. Greenman, 433 Clinton Ave. '04.-Leland W. Irish, State Engineer's Office. '04:.---.}Tilbert V. Mulleneaux, 68 Chestnut St. * * * * '53.~::1\farshall Calkins is a physician at Springfield, Mass. * * * * '55.-Almon G. Case died at his home in Charles City, Iowa, of pneumonia, Oct. 19, 190 4:, aged 72 years. He was born in Sodus 1 N. Y., March 2, 1832, and was tB.e son of James Case. Mr. Case was a graduate of the Albany Law School in 18 55 and went to Iowa in the spring of 18 56. He located at Bradford, Iowa, where he practiced law until 18 71. He then moved to Charles City, where he has ~ince resided. He or- ganized the First National Bank of that city and has been its president since organization. Mr. Case was state senator of Iowa from 186·6.-68 and Commissioner of the State of Iowa for building the Insane Asylum at Independence, Iowa, and a trustee of the same. Mr. Case mar- ried Miss Elizabeth Squier, Nov. 15, 1858. and married his second wife, Anna H. Lathrop, May 5, 189 9. Mr. Case was a member of the Psi Up- silon fraternity. * * * * '94.-.-Sidney T. Braman is assistant managei· of the Colonial Life Insurance Company of America at Newburgh, N. Y. Address Columbus Trust Co. Bldg., Newburgh, N. Y.-Florence J. Sullivan is practicing law at 346 Broadway, New York '~8.-Edward P. McKeefe, 79 Chapel St. '98.-Willis E. Merriman, Jr., 5 Main Ave. '98.-Peter Nelson, State Library. '·99 . ..--Robert M. Eames, 54 Commercial Bank. City.

THE CONCORDIENSIS. ;Consolation When sweethearts ,greet with chilling frost The ardent heart's devoted call, \ 'Tis better to have loved and lost, r:rha.n never t·o ha-ve loved at all.\ ~ When cruel exams. eur thoughts assail, And. find our minds a whited wall, 'Tis better far to try and fail, Than never to ha -v·e tried at alt When partridge whirrs from startled nest Unscathed by myriad whistling baU~ · 'Tis better to have fired and missed, Than never to have fired at all. So don't be \downed\; come cares or joys .. Whatever goal we're striving toward, This be our .consolation, boys: Th' attempt is oft its own re··ward. --By '@6. PHARMACY. Thanksgiving vacation begins Wednesday, Nov. 23. Exercises resur:rl!e Monday, Nov. 28. On Wednesday :morning a forlorn looking bunch of applicants lined up before the Humane Society building. At the stroke of nine· the pro- cession marched gravely up the stairs to the torture chamber t0 try examinations for State licenses. se11ted. All ages and both sexes were re.pre- Behind the youth of nineteen, looking for an assistant's lic€nse, 1vho mounted the steps as one going to certain doom, came the clerk of long experience but without coHege training. At last Saturday• s chemistry quiz Professor Bradley said that the acetone procf!ss for the manufacture of chlorogorm should be of especia.l interest to all A. C. P. students. This process was discove-red and perfected by Gus- tavus Michaelis, Em·eritus Professor of Pha:rmacy who now holds the position of chemist with the Albany Chemical CO·. The acetone process is now the one most used for the manufacture of fl'{aboh chloroform on a Iarge scale. Dr. Laird announced that the ntieroseo:pical laboratory will be ·aitered so th.at t1le classes will have more light. This is a change that will be appreciated as hithe·rto the lack of sufE,ieient light has been a great handicap. This !br~nch of the course, which h~s been so neglected, promises to develop into one of great pit:acti<al utility. There is no reason why the pharmacist should not make sputum and urine ·e:xamf.n;a.tions for physicians. This is a branch of the profess.ion which even though conducted at a pecliniary l·oss is of value to him. as an indicatton of his profes- sional competency. UNION CLASSICAL lNSTrTUTE CLUB. Monday morning after chapel the graduates of the Union Classical Institute, who are h1 college, met in Dr. Barnes' room and organi!zed a club for the purpose of securing more stl!l:dents than ' the }Iigh School customarily sends up. Dr. Barnes spoke of the .desire of the Fa..eulty that clubs of this sort be organized in ord..er to fur- tiTer the interests o.f the college. Dr. Elleiy also spoke of the need .of more students next fall and urged particularly for an increase in the classical and latin scientific courses. Prof. Garis was also present. With Morris Raymond temporary chairman, the following officers were elected: President, George A. Vedder, '0 6. Vice President,. Earl E. Harvey-, '0 7. Secretary, Albert H. White, '07. Treasurer, Albrich S. Tiedeman, '07. The club decided to have a picture tal\:en in the near future and also to ·make a canvass of the students who are in High School, with the object in view of ascertaining how many expect to enter college in the fall. It is very likely that a smoker or dinner to the seniors of the High :S ehool will be given sometime during the winter te:rrn. Fearey necver imitates. Ha'be a look a.t the necw styles for men at $3.50 FEAREY~S The new shoe for tnen 230 State St. Scfzenectacly Foll nities: Jun Knap Ju Johi'l Tll good pellE on ~ Iast feat are: L L L T L ~ thi ID2 by ho ffii lit w tc f1 'I t a I l

THE CONCORDIENSIS. I5 LAW SCHOOL. Following are the 'initiates of the legal frater- nities: PHI DELTA PHI. Juniors-Morgan Jones, J. B;. Thacher, C. H. Knapp, W. L. L, Peltz. DEJI..~TA CHI. Juniors-Byron L. Davis, Charles L. Earl, H. Leslie Wilbur_ GA.MMA ETA GAMMA. Juniors-John· F. Gleason, James E. Carhart, Johil. J. MeGrai!Ji. The basket baH team has been keeping up its good work u 11der the leadership of Capt. Chap- pelle, with the €xception of the game at Frankfort on Saturday, wnich was lost by one point in the last moment 'oi play, the team has not met de- feat this year. The scores of the last three games are: Law vs. San.·tlY Rill, 24-14. Law vs. Mechanicsville, 12-6. Law vs. F~rankfort, 13-14. The next games are: Law vs. Hoosick Falls, Nov. 18. Law vs. Hadson 1 Nov. 2 3. F·OOT 1 BALL FOR THE WEEK Snow, rain and hail combined to make practice this week anything but encouraging, and it re- mained witll the squad to make up _for lost time by extra pra:ctice for the past two days, aided by hosts of cheering students on the bleachers. From New York came stories of great improve- ment on the part of N. Y. U., stories of proposed end runs, trlolt plays, etc., all of which were taken literaHy by our team and prepared for carefully. The .tea-:m. is fast hardening into shape and when they left for New York thE'Y were ready to humble the Violet eveti as they d~d last year. Practice Thursday was snappy. There was no fumbling, there was no hesitation. It gave the watchers col . .:l'rage and renewed their failing hopes. To win to day means glory for Union, success for the team, henor for Bill Smith and Doc. Towne, and pride fer the students. ~ew Y nrk University has also been hard at work. WhUe our team has been playing team-s like Middiebury, Rutgers .and R. P. I., she has Trim and Neat Above the Feet are the legs tba t wear · BRifiHTON ~Ltt~ fiARTERS FOR MEN The garters that FIT-that WEAR--that PLEA::; g. The famous Brighton fiat clasp can't possibly <'atch. or fray the clothing- mal\:es the garter simple, secl:lre and abso- lutely comforta. ble. i\l ade of one pie<'e .pure silk web witll nicl{el trimmings tllat cannot rust or rub. Prit'e only 25c. at stores or by mail. Get the '\HFIGHTON.\ PD:O~'\EER SUSPEN])ER CO., 718 Marl~et Street, Plliladelphia. :Malwrs of Pioneer Suspenders. ~- -- --- ------ been struggling and grappling \Vith West Point, Amherst, Trinity, Haverford, etc. Hence, it is to be inferred that N. Y. U. is not a poor team. r.rhey have had a hard schedule and they have recruited their battered forces for one last hard blow and this blow is to be directed against Union. 'The Students of N. Y. U. have congregated on the side lines every day this week. They have sung parodies and cheered for their team and they expect to win. The New York World said: \Thinking that they did not know their signals well enough to grasp their meaning he placed every one of the varsity linemen in turn behind the line yesterday ·where a perfect kno\vledge of the .signal is absolutely necessary. * * * * As the team has been putting up an erratic ga1ne all season the fltudents are at a loss to surmise what the result of the game against West Point next Saturday will be.'' Against Rutgers the ~ew York boys seemed to have been ·welded into shape by former de- feats as they outplayed their opponents at every stage of the game. New York gained forty yards against West Point at one time. These are the scores of N. Y.

I , I . ' I ,; I ' .I . i THE CONCORDIENSJS. U. as nearly accurate as possible, owing to the fact that we ~ave ;not yet rece~ved the verified ·report from the;m.. N. Y. u. vs, 'frinity-6-0. N. Y. U. var Rochester---5-6. N. Y. U. Y~. Haverford-0-34. N. Y. N. Y. N. Y. N .. Y. N. Y. u. u. u. u. u. y;5. West Point-0-41. ys. Wesleyan-0 .... 39. vs. Rutgers-3 5-6. ys. R. P. L-53-0. vs. Fordham-0-22. A casual observer can see that Rochester de- feated N. Y. U. to the same tune as Union. N. Y. U. beat R. P. I. 53-0. We beat R. P. I. 21-0. N. Y. U. vs. Trinity, 6-0; Union vs. Trinity, 22-0. N. Y. lJ. vs. Rutgers, 3 5-6; Union vs. Rutgers, 35-0. Bill s·mith said: \It will be a hard game, we will have to play a very hard game to win. Blil.t we will try our best.\ To conclude: If Union wins it means the successful conclusion of the best season in years, added iaurets to Union's crown and immense satisfaction to all Union men. MORE TROUBLE. 1904 Baseball Season StilT Here. Some weeks ago The Concordiensis was in- formed indirectly that a baseball game had been scheduled with New York University last spring but that on the day of the game the Union team did not appear and that no word was received from the Union management in explanation. Knowing' that such an occurrence was not known to the student body here, and feeling that it should be, The Concordiensis wrote to the man- ager of the N. Y. U. baseball team for the facts. The followihg was received: New York University, Nov. 16, 1904. Editor of Concordiensis: Dear Sir:- Your letter of Oct. 2 5 came to the present man- ager of our Baseball Ass'n, and he just handed it to me, being the ex-manager, to answer. I opened negotiations with your manager early last summer and the date was closed about Dec. 15. I had the letter i:n my possession until a few days ago, when our janitor here got energetic in cleaning and threw out all my mail. At any rate after the date was closed, nothing was done until a week before the game, when I sent him the usual notice of the game, telling him when and where it would come off and directions to get here. I didn't hear anything from h.im, but that i~ no~ out of the ordinary so I didn't worry. But on the d~y game was to be played I had everything ready and there was a good crowd inol1:1.ding a: number -of your own alurnni, but your team put :in no appearance and you know the result of such a thing as that. I immediately telegraphed your manager and that same might wrote him so that I -could explain matters to the student body, but have had no answer fro-m that day to this. I sh1cerely hope that this thing can be amiably settled so that our relations may continue. Respectfully yours, D. HERBERT O'DOWD. Tiffany & Co. New York A. L. O'WENS . .. CATERER ... UTICA N. Y· ' j.A. RICKARD 8 Co. Sporting Goods 253 State Street Schenectady l R Jc

THE CONCORDIENSJS. I7 BRIGHTON l/:tlp GARTER \scored\ at the first t~y for \goal.\ A \line up\ of Bri~hton wearers would show nearly two million men. There is no \sub'' .for the Bri~hton. The si~nal for Bri~hton '\t>lay\ is- .. Comfort-Neatness-Service.\ :Made from one piece pure sllk web with nickel trimmings. Price 25C. 1 at stores or by mail. PIONE:Elt SUSPENDER CO., ,18 Mar~~t Street, Pl1iladelphia. .»al:te~ of Pioneer Suspenders. firthur J. Mhite Su~cessor to MacLean ... 3he Collsgs j'hotographsr\ Liberal Discount to College Men. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. Phone ) 492 Home { 47m H. ·R. D . R· UGS E!r;~~~!~cr:ndies , Anythmg · and Everything OPEN ALL NIGHT REYNOL ·ns CORNER STATE STREET . · t AND THE RAILROAD John T. Johnson FASHIONABLE . . . • MERCHANT TAILOR :J5 Maiden Lane Albany, N.Y. :CHAS. HoLTZMAN·N & SON 259 STAT.E STREET Hawes Hats are the ideal college Men's Eats. In buying them we had the men of Union College in mind. We have shapes that will :please you college men. They are $3.00, with our usual college discount. Slil:ccessor to GERARDUS SMITH cA.]. 8.llcGEE Dealer in COAL AND WOOD Telephone 321 140 South Centre St. Schenectady, N. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. SCHENECTADY'S GREATEST STORE HEADQUARTERS FOR Men's Furnishings of all l(iqd~ Specia.l Prices to Students COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 0 Show your College Spirit by giving it your patronage. @ Orders Attended to Promptly. W. HUNT. '05 Siltiman Hall ;tobsonaAdee BOOK MEN SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA

r8 ===---~=-=--============================ Electric Lightil\g Apparatus. Elect tic Rallway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmission of Power. Sales -hl:ffiees in aU the brge cities ef the Pnited States. General Electric Co. SCHENEC1AnY, N.Y. TI-l£ Cl/AilAtVT££0 !ID1~1~!) BOWLS MADE IN FRANCE Pi pes RepaJred EYRES, Society Florist. FLORAL EMBLEMS ARRANGED IN ARTISTIC STYLES. THOUSANDS OF ROSES, CARNATI:QNS AND VlrOLETS ALWAYS ON HAND. l No. P-earl St. TeL 208. Albany, N.Y. OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOFRS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. ------~------~-------------- IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK, VEAL. LAMB, HAiMS, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59·A. 53 So. Centre, ·Cor. Liberty GRUPE . THE FLORIST, 1 426 STATE STREET Supplies Flowers for Balls, Parties, etc. Also Palms, Ferns and other potted plants in the greenhouse at the rear of store. AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York. Schenectady 'Vorks, Schenectady, N. Y. Brooks 'Yorks, Dunkirk, N.Y. Pittsburg \Vorks, Allegheny, Pa: , .. Richmond \Yorks, Richmond, Va. '· r<'o'. ·-- .~ ...... -.\'<'~·.:.. .. -- ............ ,.._ ~l :~.. · Cooke VVorks, · ~4:· Paterson, N. 'J. :~. j · Rhode Island Works, Providence, .R. I. Dickson Works, Scranton,[Pa. -:\Ianche:;;ter VVorlcs, Manchester, N.rH. Locomotive & lVIachine Co. ' Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE. == s J I

/ AD!VERTISEMENTS. CJ:he Gazette is easlly the foremost daily in Schenectady,, -PR.IN'l'ERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904 Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Te1e1)h()ne 4:25 General Office 420 State St. Schenectadyt N~Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six Forn1alities, THE 'VARSITY MIAN WHO WEARS \STEEFEL\ QUALiTY CLOTHES liAS THE SATISFACTION OF K.NOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER IF HE TRiED. STEEFEL BROTHERS 7 8-80-82 State Street James H. Barhyte Lucas W. Devenpeck JUbany, N. Y. Barhyte & Devenpeck Vvholesal-€ & Retail Dealers Coal an& ~llason Supplies - Office 306 Un.ion St. Schenectady. N. Y. CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE New York :City {[HE course covering four. years begins during the first week in October and continues until June. A preliminary training in natural science is of great advantage. All the classes are divided in small sections for recita- tion, laboratory and dynical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the required examinati'ons. The successful completion of the first year in any College or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory stand- ard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annual announcement giving full particulars will be mailed on application. WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D., DEAN, Corl\ell University Medical Coilege, 27th. and 28th Streets and 1st Avenue, N. Y. City Telephones H.ll .. 745~A Home 792 103 North Pearl Street, Albany, N. Y. lVIUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union College-'92, '93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Cornell Univei·sity-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00. Colgate University-'94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Williams College-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. Hamilton C()llege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02. Governor's ::Man.sion-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03. EDWIN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCurler, Jay Street BATHS~ Razors Honed The best equipped shop in the city. All modern improvements. A new comp1·essed air outfit. Successor toR. T. Moir Books,- Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steamship Agency 333 Staie Stu·eet Sch.enectady, N. Y. WOOD <BROTHERS lriEN?S FURNISHERS 265 ST,;1TE STREET Fine Dr(~ss Shirt':3 jn Manhattc--..n and J.Vlonarch. Fine Negligee Shirts. Boston Derby and I-v1allory I-Iats. Cra-vvfory and Forerr1ostBhoes. Home Steam Laundry.

467 State St. Schenectady ' G d C -1 th -·we have a line of suits that for busi- ·.oo. o.,es ness, .dress or full dress wear have no equal. Suits that· are made from the best materials, fashioned in the 1110st approved styles, tailored in good taste and finished perfectly. Such high-grade ·manufact- . urers as Rogers, Peet & Co. and others contribute their best productions to our stock. We do not care how · · particular you may be about your clothes, we have a suit that will satisfy you in every particular. Our Overcoats and Rain Coats. are also very swell. The Finishing That is~ the little things that go . to make a man Touches well dressed-hats, gloves, neckwear, collars, cuffs, shirts, etc. These goods express the nevv,est and most approved styles and are perfect in every detail. We also have a very· fine line of underwear., hosiery., handkerchiefs, sweaters, etc. BABBITT & Co. Albany's Greatest Clothiers · 23, 25, 27 and 29 S. Pearl Street, STULL BROS. - Albany, N. Y. 467 State St. Schenectady Tailors and Furnishers to College Men IN .HABERDASHERY CUSTOM TAILORING The J904 College ..M.en will wear THE 3 INCH FOUR-IN-HAND THE LARGE ENGLISH SQUARE Gloves, Hosiery, Night Shirts, Pajamas, Shirts, Collars and Cuffs, all strictly high-class goods Everything new. Shirts and Pajamas made to The bigness and fullness that characteriz-t~d clothes last season · are just as noticeable features of- the fashions for Autumn and Winter. Coats will be 29t inches in length with slits in back 4 to 5 inches in length. Plain and fancy browns are the · • latest shades. 1~he particular dresser comes to us, for we dress him in a partic- ular way. measure. I ------------------------~.~.~~~. ~----~=~:·-·---~------~------------~;~-~ '!'. ~ ' . . '

