+ + + + THE + + + + CONCORDIENSI.S VOLUME XXIX NUMBER 2 OCTO'BER 7, 1905 . . .. • •.j ' I; --.-.. ... _ \.· ... _ ------- - { .T. Bro·wn · ·• C·o11 ' \. - . ege -· .. __ ijlbrar.y PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY I . THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

' ' . 2 = ADVERTISEMENTS Union Univ,ersity. ', AN-DREW Y. V. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. D., PHE8IOENT. :, UNION COLLEGE, SOHENEOTADY, N Y. I. Course Leadin.g to fhe Degree of A. B. l. Course Leading to the Degree of B S. l. Course Lead,ing to tbe Degree of Pb. B. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. S. Sanitary Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 6. Electrical Course Leading to t:h.e Degree of 8.-E. This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in place of some of the General Engineering studies. This course is offered .in eo-operation with the Edison General Electric Company, un- der the immediate supeevision of Prof. C. P. Stein1netz. '1· Graduate Course in EngineeringLead,ing to the Deg.ree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates .of ~ourses 4, 5 Ol' 6. For catalogues or for Rpecial information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean Gf the College, Schenectady, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEJ)Jt.\INE. A.lbany ~edical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Reeita· tion, Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Practical Op-'rations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages. excellent. Catalogues and circulars containin~r fuH information, sent on application to . WILLIS G. TUCKER, M.D., Rel'istrar, Albany. N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany Law Schooi.-This department of the university · is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a , building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B., ia two rears, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matrieulation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For ca~alogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, JOHN J. HUGHES, Secretary Albany, N.Y . .ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. lCzerclsea held in Albany Medical College Building. P'or eatalo.rue hnd information address. THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, .Albany, N.Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. RECENTLY ENLARGED WITH 25,000 NEW WORDS AND PHRASES New Gazetteer of the World New Biographical Dict-ionary Edited by W. T. H.\.RRIS, Ph.D , LL.D., United States Commissioner of Education. 2380 Quarto Pages. 5000 Illustrations. FREE, \Dictionary ·wrinkles.\ AI,o illustrate.! pamphlets. G. CJ C. ME..RRIAM CO. Publishers, Springfield, Mass. GE.T THE. BEST LYON'S DRUG STORE Agency for Huyler•s Bon Bons and Chocolates. Eastman Kodaks. Films and all Photo Supplies. Prescriptions Accurately and Reasonably Filled. l35 STATE ST., Cor. Clinton SCHENECTADY COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY. N. Y. MAKERS OF CAPS, GO\VN5 and HOODS to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty. \VILSON DAVIS Mercl1ant Tailor 237 State St. Schenectady, N. Y .. ..

.. ADVERTISEMEN'T·S 3 CHAS .. HoLTZ 1 MAN.N & SoN 259 STATE STREET Hawes H.ats arethe ideal coHege'Meri's Hats. In buying them we had th..e men of Union College i11 mind. We have shapes that will pJease you college men. They a:ve $3.00, with 0ur usual college discount. THE TEN EYCK 1 cA.} •. tJVlcGEE aE&Xifri\JSr~MrTH ALEAN7~N-Y- . . :Fosit5.-vely :Fire-'J?:roo~- Dealer in COAL AND WOOD European Plan. Most attractive Hotel in New York State. Near STATE CAPITOL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra lVIusic during evening dinner. Long Distance 1._\'elephone in every room. H. J. ROCKWELL tll. SON KEELER'S Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N.Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attached SPECIAL NEW RATHSKELLAR. Bowling Alley and Billard R.oom also Twenty-five Private Dinning ~ooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507 ®. 509 Broad. way . ·. THE .•. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Tlze Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in tlze City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. Tele,phone 321 140 South Centre St ~ Schenectady, N~ Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. Headquarters for Men's Furnishings • H. R. Phone 175-M. Ho1ne Phone 192 -GATES- COLLEGE BAGGAGE EXPRESS Agent Outside 'ff Station Office l25 Wall Street For Hats, Caps, Furs, Trun.ks, Bags • .S\Uit Cases, Etc., 8o to M.MANN'S Successor to L. T. Clute Headquarters for Stetson and Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE The L111rgest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Daneing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with bouse. 2' Front Street Schenectady, N .. Y .. l .

4 ,· I ADVERTISElVIENTS ED~OND E!LI.ABLE ESTAURANT THE PLACE Weddings Banquets Private Parties SERVED in a Hi,gh Class Manner \ 75he LEVI MOORE Studio \ MAKERS OF .ARTISTIC PUOTOGRA~PHS Ernory Ircving Wendel(, Proprietor 15 North Pearl Street Alhany~ N. Y. firthur J. ldhite Successo~r to MacLean ., 3he College PhotographerH Liberal Discount to College lVIen. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on File. Ph • ) 49 2 Home one ~ 47m H. R. GO TO F- D- :S::U::SEE~S FOR FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL, GYM, GOLF, AND HIGH CUT HUNTING SHOES. ALSO HEAVY SOLE OXFORDS FOR FALL AND WINTER. 457 STATE STREET .A. L. 0 -wENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, .N. V Dan ·\Lurler Q)pera .0ouse C. H. BENEDICT TELEPHONE No.JJ5 Manager ·MR. JOHN McCLOSKEY .., MERCHANT TAILOR Invites your attention to his new line of Fall Wool- ens for the season of r9o5. His line will be found replete with Novelties and absolutely new, which marks it one of unusual merit. No old stock. Nobby Clothes for College Men. The College Tailor . I 26 WALL STREET

THE CoNcoRDIENsts }{1), 2 VOL. XXIX. . ' UNIOJ\T c~oLf-,EGE, ocr. 7, r9o5. PLAIN 'TALK ~ . President Wheeler's Address to Incom1ng Freshm.en. rooters, go at an .appointed time and do yolil'r duty · hard. There are more important things for y& u to do in the afternoons. By a new rule, each o:f you is President Benjamin Ide Wheeler of the Univer- entiUed to a bath at the gymnasium, and you have ,sity of California, in speaking, the other day, to the privilege of indulging in a little exercise ther·3 the entering class of that institution, put himself for your own good. There is no excuse for anv on record as opposed to \bleacher athletics,\ and I§· u~'ldergraduate to go uncleaned. You s!heuild have announced it as his h1.tenUon to overthrow, to $Orne extent, the undergraduate custom of \root .. ing\ nightly at the football practice on the cam- pus. He also spoke ir1 plain language against other student excesses, notably the wearing of shabby clothes a11d class hats, smoking cigarettes and keeping late hours. It may not be amiss to quote. He spoke, in part, as follows: This university marks the turning point in most of your careers. A man who waHts to go to hell can go very easily from this point. It is a dan- gerous place for any one who has not every hour in the day planned for. You enter each one of you on a life of manhood and womanhood, and you 1nust leave aside childish things. Above all, this is no place for idlers, and freshm.en are too enough self-respect to be neat and dean. It is a part of your education to look prosperous. I don't want anybody to think they have to be dressed l.iD to go to college, for \Ve have no place :f-or dud l'S. )[n fact, one of the distinguishing marks of this un1versily is that it is an institution for Ute poor man's son. But a man can have his shoes blacked. He is by this a more self-respecting man, a better Christian and a better me1nber of soci·ety. The \vearing of slouchy clothes has no excuse. Jt does not make a man a better fellow or a m 0re suc- cessful athlete. There is no reason \VhY students should be dressed differently. We are n .. ot a pe- culiar people, n1onkish in our attire. \'\Ve are a part of the world, and we need not affect uncouth styles of hats for all occasions. .;~ :, · prone to begin their undergraduate course in a:im- A student going to college needs to conserve and \' lessly wandering about without any fixed purpose. protect his own strength. He should get good It will not do to spend too much time hangin~ about the football field. W..e don't want any fresh- men to get in the habit of ·drooling around the campus, waiting about on the steps and bleachers. There is no need for you to spend every afternoon yelling at the football team. I have c0nfyrred with the coaches and those in authority about this matter, and we shall have a change this year. Once a week at most is sufficient to gather on the football field and cheer the eleven. During the rest of the week you should preserve a reason~tbJe silence, except on great occasions. Football is an advanced sc.ience, and the men studying it do not want their work accompanied with a great noise. When there is need for your services among the food. Along with good food you need J)'lenty of sleep-eight or nine hours a night. I deprecate the late hours needlessly indulged in by so many students. Another evil is the smoking G·f cigar- ettes. I smoke myself, but I am not rroud of it, and for this reason I can the m.ore entreat you. Smoking represents a habit that may be the ruin of you. You need your growth at this reriod of develop1nent. Let nothing interfere \vith your health. The University of California shows a. decrease in registration. Indications point to a. smaller Freshman class than last year, but the number of graduate students will be greatly increased.. I j i ' I

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS Christian Associati~n VESPER SERVICE: l\11'. 'I1aylor of St. Geoi~ge's Chnreh will talk on Spiritl!lal Atldetics. TUESDAY E.VElNlNG: Bible Study RaHy---- J. T. WI~ight, '07, leader. Of all the work the AssociaHon. offers to the feHows that of Bible .study is the most valuable. By this means men find firm g:ro·und f.or their be- lief and the support necessary for better riving. This year our efforts will be concentrated in two classes that there may be no doubt as to their efficiency. For Freshmen and those beginning the work Dean Ripton's class on Tuesday evenings is offered. For advanced students Mr. Wright wiH lead study in the Acts and Epistles. 'Foo much can not be said as to the good as well as pleasure to be obtained from study under the Dean. We who have been in hi:s classes ·will realize this and cart well urge the attendance of freshmen as well as all other students. Circu- lars will be in the hands of all the fellows by Monday and we ask them to read them carefulily. Mr. 'Tay~or's talk at Vespers prnmises to be in- teresting. He has recently come to Schenectady and has never spoken on the hill before. It is hoped the feHo\.vs will give him a hearty recep- tion. * * * * Vesper Service At Sunday's Vesper service Dr. Lunn of the First Reformed Church addressed the students on \The Overworked Future.\ value of the present. VVhat you are going to be depends upon what you are.\ Dr. Lunn illustrated his point by a story of the blasting of a mans character through an element of closefistedness in his character Which he could not bare to begin to break. He ended by saying, '''It is onry character that has power. It i:s only by their character that you measure fellow college n'l:en. Live; ado-pt the motto, 'Seize the day! Begin to be now, and don't bow do'\vn to the future as it is only the point where the heart will break.\ --- CoU.ege Meeting At college meeting Monday morning Captain Waldron announced that the faH inter-class track n1.eet will be held on :the oval, Saturday, October 21. He urged the men. to come out for practice, which will be held at 4: 15 each afternoon. The team. is especially in need of high jumpers and h. urdlers and anyone having ability in these lines ~is especially urged to come out. Captain Dann spoke on the Colun'lbia game and 1nade a request for more football men. J. L. Moon requested that more fellows be on the sidelines, to cheer for the team. James G. Brennan, '07, was elected assistant baseball manager for the coming year. H. M. Haight, '0 6, 1vas elected secretary of the Athletic Board. The following four men were elected to the undergraduate council: Classen, '06; Stoney, '0 6; Mooers, '07, and Newton, '07. Dr. Lunn began with a quotatiG>n, \Of man's miraculous mistakes this bears the palm-that an men are about to live.\ \This he said, \is especially true of the college student. The Fresh- man begins his course with play, the Sophomore continues it with folly, the Junior, in jolly go.od- fellowship, and the Senior looks forward to 'be- ginning life' when student days are over. A col= lege man may have the ability to stand at the head of his ·class but unless he begins at once to use H .he loads the future with a growing burden.'' President Chapman appointed William Hildreth as secretary of the student body. \Dreams make the world rosy-to the dreamer. -But he will learn that though the future receives, Jt will not produce. Its only value lies in the The Bed (After Longfellow.) I sought my bed at daybreak After a night in town. It dodged when I approached it, Side-stepped and knocked me down. Enraged, I grew strategic, But it slipped through the open door Just when I tried to grab it. So I slumbered 011 the floor. -Princeton Tiger.

u. e t THE CONCORDIENSIS 7 ON 'THE IDOL \Prex's Little God Has Changed Its Color.\ 1877 .. 19()5 Wake Mi·stress Muse, whom o.ft I've sought in vain To he,lp me sing som.e sweet or sad refrain; come now and fill my soul with heavenly fire I· To tell this tale in Omjar's happy strain. I would not ask for roses nor for wine; I want no bul-bul singing from ,the vine, Nor Kaikobad, nor mighty Kaikosru, Nor Saki with her ern;pty glass, for mine. An empty .glass is but a vain deceit; Give me some clinking rhymes, some language neat, For no pne but Fitzgerald yet has made This quartrain business travel on its feet. And yet methinks, this verse is just the 'thing;- This kind of verse, I mean, with easy swing:- Quartrains of Oriental measure and design;. For 'Us an Oriental goddess I m 1 ust sing. Within som.e temple of the flaming East; There was a goddess served by many a priest And m 1 any a king and mandarin within the shrine Left every morn a rich and dainty ft:ast. Of marble white this goddess was designed; The fopn uncouth, perchance, to modern mind:- A mother beast and twixt her feet a cub:- I never thought the Chinamen refined. Wide star1ing eyes and tongue a-hanging out; There seemed to be about it and about That kind of queerness which arrests the eye And makes the godless raise unholy shout. Great Murray, teaching young ideas to shoot In far Japan-He was a kind of Tute; In fact the He Tute-stole that Chinese thing And said to Potter,\ Isn't she a Beaut?'' Then Prexy when he saw it bowed low: Crying,. \To prove my love for Union ere I go, Upon a pedestal shall this image stand:- Let all good students abject reverence show.\ Alas, the schemes of men, e'en Presidents, Cannot direct the sequence of events:- The goddess scarcely mounted on her ped A few feet back from Prexy's garden fence, All draped in white to wait Commencement Day When Potter's hand should dra··w· the veil away Amid the plaudits of the multitude:- A miracle occurred; historians say. vVithin the confines of a s:ngle night That marble, wh~ch had been for centuries white, Was black as ink, except for eyes and mouth--=- Yellow and red,~Oh, what a fearsome sight. And since that time or sinner may, or saint, (If this aint gospel I know nothin' aint). Know Prexy's idol is a female god I go s in Business FoU0wing is a partial list of the occupations of the men who graduated last sp-ring: AJ,exander J. Thom,pson has entere<i Albany Law. ~ Eric King has accepted a position with the U. S. ·Geological .Survey at Chandler, Oklahoma. Morris Raymond is with Arnold & Co., lumber dealers, Albany, N. Y. Fred Patten has entered the lumber business in Nova Scotia. Tho-mas Holmes has entered Albany Medical College. Clarence Arms is w'ith the engineering depart- m·ent of the Central R. R., New Jersey. LeRoy L. Odell is working for the Schenectady . R. R. Co. ~eil C. Holdredge is with the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co. James H'. Cunningham is in the G. E. Test. Louis C. Hart ·is with the General Electric Co. Karl F. West is with the engineering depart- ment of the Rapid Transit Co., Brooklyn, :N. Y. E. G. Simons has procured work as an engineer on the Barge Canal Construction at Port Byron, N.Y. E. J. Ellenwood is with the Central Railroad of New Jersey. T. E. McGuirk has a clerical position in Winni- peg, Can. An Appeal For Union College Publication~ The College Library is making an effort to col- lect a complete set of Union College publications. The following numbers of the \Concordiensis\ and the \Parthenon\ are wanting, and it is earnestly desired that anyone who is in a position to do so will send any of the numbers mentioned to the librarian: Concordiensis-v. 4,. Nos. 1, 3, 4, 6; v. 14, Nos. 9, 12; v. 16, No. 18; v. 17, Nos. 12, 14; v. 21, No. 21; v. 22, Nos. 1, 4, 15; v. 24, Nos. 8, 29. Parthenon-Third series-v. 3, Nos. 4, 9. Because she hides advancing years with paint. J. H. LA ROCHE, '77. The University of Nebraska opened its skating rink Monday.

;rijE CONCORDIENSIS JUNIOR CLASS ME.ETING Resolutions for Clean Politics An important meeting of the Junior cwass was held Wednesday afterno.on in the chapel. For some time the class has been casting about; f6-r son1e plan whereby it could n1ake .a stand against ·certain quesUonable methods in the college poli- tics. At a recent meeting, President Blinn .ap- pointed a committee of five to draft a set ()f i'eso- Jutions, voicing the sentiments of the 1nemhers -of the class and binding them to the cause oif clean politics. Niagara Falls and was admitted to the ba;r in ·1880. Fer ten years he practiced law in New York, in the office of Jennings, Stetson & Bangs. :He met and won the respect and confidence of t;n;en of prom1nence. He had brought with h~m. from Niagara Falls ideas as to the deveTopment of power from the big cataract. He interestf\ a. Francis Lynde Stetson, D. 0. Mills, the Astors and other financiers in his propositio~l,. and out .of his ideas grew the first power plant at th0 Falls. u - -- The com.mittee announced itself ready to re- port Wednesday. A class meeting was caHed and the following four resolutions were adopted: AU candidates for office shall register With the president. Mr. Rankine gave the remaining fifteen years of his bu.sh1:ess life to the Niagara ].,ails Power ·Company a:nd the manifold industrial en.terprises growing out of the development of power. His At least one week's notice shall be given before all class elections. There shall be no electioneering for any of:fi.;ce. Opportunity shall be given candidates to speak before the class, if they so desire. A resolution was also passed that aU offices he made elective by the class. 'This resolution will do away with any disputes over chairman- ships of permanent committees which formerly were appointed by the president. After temporarily setting aside the rule requir- ing a week's notice for elections, the class elected F. W. Newton, as1stant manager of the Con,cor- diensis. I WILLIAl\£ B. RANiiiNE. William Birch Rankine, a graduate and life trustee .of Union College, died at Franconia, jn the White Mountains, New Hampshire on Sep~ tember 30. undertaking of the hard work and laf·ge respon.- S·i1Jilities coNnected with the big power enterprist:, ill spite of the heart disease that had stricken hin1 in 1'\ew York, gives some idea of the solid gr·1t of the man, and the splendid success of the corrl- pany of which he was the working heetd, and the successes of the many interests which he built up at or brought to the Niagara Frontier, proves the largeness of his ability and capacity. \Mr. Rankine was a remarkable man, a man of :fine character and excellent mind. His allot- ment of life was short, but in his brief career he acemnplished much to deserve the place that the.:. history of the industrial development of the Niagara frontier will give him. To meet vYilJiara B. Rankine was to meet a friel)d. Hence the hosts of frie11ds in Niagara Falls, Bl.iffalo, New York and elsewhere who will mourn him sincere- ly, His manner was always courteous, his bear- ing, respect~winning. His deeds of charity and kindness were unostentatious. He vvas a fine type of the Christian American gentle1nan.\ College Briefs The following :is an excerpt from the Buffalo Ex- press: \Wiiiiain B. Rankine was born in Owego, Tioga County, on January 4, 1858. He was edu- reated at Hobart and Union Colleges, graduating ·from Union in the class of 18 77 ·with the degree of A. B. and later receiving the degree o.f A. N .. No, Clorinda, it's 11ot an extension of the New York subway to Union College campus, nor a line of redoubts; :merely a hot air connection between various college buildings. * * * * from both colleges. Mr. Rankine studied law in Agitation has started. in the sophomore class ·J:he office of the late A. Augustus Porter at at least, on the advisability of organizing a basket-

in of .l}11. ut , THE CONC~ORDIENSIS 9 ball team. At the next ·class meetin:g captain A. W. Lent, '04 is taking his Senior year at the and manager will be elected and a .schedule ar- Alba:ny Law School. * * * * ranged. * * * * Dr. J. H. M·oon, '7 2 of the Albany Medic was Last :Monday, for the ftrst tim•e in many moons on the hill vV:ednesday. * * * * of Union's history, the so.phhomore class com- pletely blocked the freshmen from rushing out ·Of chapel, except a few who ·escaped by the window. * * * * The annual rain of '\kids\ upon the campus has begun, and it looks sometimes as though the football team mi.ght have to stop practice; so as not to offend the youngsters. * * * * Wlth but two or three exceptions 1.906 is back this fall, and promises to graduate .a banner class. * * * * Captain Gagen of the AH~Amertcans, who was temporarily laid up .with a bad knee is again. back at his post of duty. * * * * Cheering from the side lines at football practice seem.s to be of rather less account than ·was hoped. * * * * The following is the schedule of the remaining class football games: October 9-1907 vs. 1908. October 12-1908 vs. 1909. October 16-. 1906 vs. 1907. October Hl-1907 vs. 1909. October 23-1-906 vs. 1908. * * * * Dr. Stoller is again meeting his classes after a few days ill ness. * * * * A custom observed at many colleges in the United States is that of placing in the trophy room all footballs and baseballs used in games won by the college. Why not start this custom at Union? * * * * Prof Edward E. Hale, Jr., delivered the Phi \ ·Beta Kappa oration at the Hobart College Com- 1 1mencement, June 21, 1905, the subject being , \Modern Standards· of Criticism.\ * * * * Van Nostrand Gom1pany announce a second edi- tion 'Of· ''Adjustments ~of Observations by tbe Method of· Least Squares, with Applications. to Geoderic vVnrk,'' by Prof. Thomas W. yYright and J. T. Hayford, * * * * Several persons, have asked why the mercury arc lights are no longer n1aintained on the cam- pus but no one seems able to answer . The Flunker The subjects of athletes neglect:ng college work is one that always comes home. Particularly at this season. is the theme of interest. A writer in the Dartmouth Magazine deals sensibly with the subject. \The Flunker,\ the writer says, \is not always the man who fails in acco1nplishment, nor the man who is lacking in ability. He is oftener the man who fails, or neglects, to convince his instructors that his studies absorb his entire in- terest. It may be that his native ability enables him to 1nake a fairly good recitation without preparation. But there are instructors who, if they know a man has not prepared his lesson, will n1ark him zero regardless of how \vell he may recite. Perhaps such cases are extreme, but they are not isolated. \Very often the Fl unker is a man who has neg- lected certain lines of college work to do more work in others, as for instance the man who serves his college in athletics. A season of severe training, which calls for both time and labor, is not particularly conducive to good results in the class room. If a man has ability in the field of athletics the college demands that he shall come out. He may need the time for study, but gives. it up in the interest of the college, with the result that he flunks. Is he the type of man that the college can afford to lose?\

l' IO THE CON:CORDIENSIS ·The Concordiensis. ==============·-' . .,A Literar.J' and [J(ews Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. Entered at the P<:>stoftice at S~hen.ectady, N.Y .. as Second Class Matter BOARD OF EDITORS. D. F~ I'MRIE, 'o6, • F. L. MILLER, 'o6, F. W. NEWTON, '07, W. KING, 'o6, - P. L. CLASSEN, '-o6, 13. W. REED, 'o6, J. :R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o4, Editor-·in ·Chief Business Mana·ger Asst. Business Manager - Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editot Alumni Editor Law Department ASSOCIATE EDITORS. E. ~C. BRADBEER, 'o7, W.T. MCINTOSH,'o7, L S. PARSONS,'o7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, N. V. V. FRANCHOT zd, 'o7. REPORTORIAL STAFF. B. A. COLLINS, 'o8, A. V. V. RAYMOND, Jr. 'o8, L. S. HOFFMAN,. 'o8, E. VANOLINDA, 'o8, M.S. WATSON, 'o8, M. H. WEYRAUCH, 'o8. H. C. POWELL, 'o8 COLLEGE DIRECTORY. p, tb ll {E. M. Dann, Captain; 00 a . G. A. Vedder, Manager. Baseball { L. N. Rider, Captain; J. L. Moon, Manager. rra k{ C. N. Waldron, Captain; c S. J. Raymond, Manager. Glee Cluh {B. W. Reed, Leader; G. C. Newbury, Manager. Instrumental Club 5 B. W · Reed) Leader; l G. C. Newbury, Manager. Concord£ensis {D. F. In:trie, Editor; F. L. Miller, Manager. Garnet 5 E. E. Haevey, Editor, ·~ B, N. Mooers, Manager. Y. M. c. A. 5 C. N. W:aldron, President; t A. S. Kmght, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year, in Advance 10 Cents Address ali communications:to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. The football season has opened with what might be called a bad defeat, at, first glance. Fron1 the score in the game last year with C0lumbia, and fron1 the work done by the boys in practice, a much closer score had been expected by alL It was probably due to this opti1nistic feeling, that we all were so1newhat stunned at first by the size of the score. We had not taken into considera6on the fact that Columbia was stronger than last year, a year as disasterous for the Blue and White as it was successful for us. Looking over the game, ia detail, there does not .see1n to be so much cause for dis- couragen1ent. The teatn was outweighed n1any pounds to the man; was outclassed cotnpletely, in that respect. The eletnent of 1 uck entered materially into the size of Colutnbia's score. Careless, rather than poor, football on Union's part helped on the work. The teatn did not fall ~lown through lack of ability, but through failure to apply that ability to the best advantage. This week the teatn has been put through its paces harder than at any time before, in expectation of a hard game with \'f\f illia1ns today. Improvetnent has been noted in every department and the tean1 has been playing fast and snappily. Williams_ is re- ported as having the best team in years and tnade a good showing against Harvard. Every man in college should be on the side lines this afternoon, prepared to do his best in cheering our team on to victory. TO FRESIIMEN Last week we took occasion to speak of your need of learning the college custorns, and now we wish to aid those who may not have received advice heretofore. First of·. all, never hesitate to speak to any n1an onl I the campus. Nine chances out of ten he~ belongs here, but the ice may never bt; I broken if you do not take the initiative'. ! Have a cheerful '''Hello!'' for everyone ' \ ' \ I (

! . '' ! ' ( ·-·~---- ---- --- --~·- -·------·--~-- - - --~---··-·-\·--- ·--··---------·· ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS :tr whom you think a student. The courtesy of always standing by to let upperclassmen pass through a door first should be followed out carefully. Furt:her1nore whenever you meet a professor or instructor, either on the can1pus or the street, adhere to the college custon1 of giving the n1ilitary salute. This custom is as old as the institution and should never be discontinued. Learn to be a stickler for all our tinte-honored precedents and cnsto1ns. Get all the inforn1a tion von ,.1 can about the history of the college so that you won't pose as a blockhead when yon go back home. Be familiar with all the col- lege records and above all sit down and learn each and every one of the yells and ·\D- o 1't now .1\'' songs. TRACK While there is so 1nnch being said and written about football, we n1ust not forget that there are other college activities ·which den1and some attention. Fall activity on the track has always been a pron1inent part of our work in that line, and it is not n1eant that this year shall be an exception to the rule. '· The fall track 1neet is ·but tvvo weeks off. This is always taken as the time wh~n a fair line can be got on the ability of the new men. At this time of the year, of course, football is above all else in the athletic line. But there must be many 1nen of track ability who are not out for the football team. It is the duty of those n1en to get out for the daily practice on the oval. In other colleges \hustling\ committees are going to the men individually and get- ting then1 ont for the football team. This schen1e might be tried with advantage here for both football and track. THOSE JUNIOR RESOLUTIONS The Junior class has taken a step in the right direction. Its intentions are good, and for that reason its recent stand in re- gard to class elections should be commend- ed in the highest terms. The only doubt expressed is whether O·r not the plan is feasi- ble. Its operation will be watched with keenest interest by the rest of the college. Once in a while, so1neone, usually out- side the college holds up his hands in horror and exclaims about \dirty politics\ here. \1\T e cannot see the reason for this. We deny that we are worse than other colleges. In fact, fron1 what we have been able to hear, w~e are decidedly better than 1nost !n this resp-ect. We clain1 that it is in the very nature o£ An1erican college students to play politics before they come into cqptact with those of practical life. But \Ve cannot deny that, at tin1es, \play politics\ have, and are, carried to excess here at Union. It is this excess that r907 plans to do away with, by going to the very root of the tnatter. If the class can induce the other classes in college, and those to cotne, to fol- low its exa1nple, then it will indeed have ac- cotnplished a great work. For Our Advertisers After more or less trouble our business manager has succeeded in obtaining a considerable num- ber of advertisers. We hope that he may obtain more. But that is not the :point. These business m.en who are patronizing us are not in it for charity but with the expectation of equal returns. They are paying m·oney for ads that will bring their wares to the notice of the students. It is, therefore, no more than fair that the fellows patronize them in turn. Accordingly, we urge the men in college, and those out, who may see the Concordy, to give the preference in buying to those who advertise in our columns. The Sophomore The Sophomore is a reckless man Who' dresses sporty as he can. The way that last girl eyed his clothes Is tickling this one here, God knows. Widow.

12 THE·CONCO~DIENS~S j Alumni '37.-William W. Dean died at Auburn, N. Y., .- Sigma Phi fraternity and Adelphic Soci-ety of Union College and the Oda Fellows. .· . * * * * June 20, 1905. He had been employed as a J '44.-Theodore Townsend di·ed at Westport, N. treasliry clerk since 1865. and was the oldest em- . ploye in the departmeRt. 1\ir. Dean was born in Central New York, April 19, 1812. He studied law and in 1836 was employed as chi-ef clerk in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court of IndtaJta. He was admitted to the Chicago bar in 183 7 in whi<ch city he practiced his profession for eome time. Feeling called to enter the ministry, he prepared himself for his new work, and wa,s ordained in Louisville, Ky., in 1840. He served as pastor in Louisville and in no,rthern Illinois for som.e ,years, and from 18 47 to 186 0 he was pastor of churches in Quincy and Boston, Mass. At the close of the Civil War he took up the work· of sending wound'ed soldiers to their homes. In car- rying out this charitable labor, Mr. Dean's sym- pathies frequently caused him to spend more of his private income than he could well afford. He concluded to seek employment under ·the govern- ment to supplement his income and was appointed to a clerkship in the Treasury by \Villiam P. Fes- senden, Secretary of the Treasury, in 18 6 5. * * * * I J '42.-William C. McHarg, the dean of the Al- bany County Bar, died \Yhile asleep on the couch in his office at 51 State St., Albany, June 6, 1905. Y., Aug. 3, 1905, where he had gone for the sum.- 1ner with his family. M·r. Townsend was born at Albany, Oct. 9, 1826 and was the son. of John and Abby Spencer Townsen-d. He prepared for col- lege at the Albany Academy and in college was a member ·Of the Delphian Institute and the Sigma Phi frate·rnity. In the spring of 1846 he engaged in the foundry and iron business in Albany. He remained in this bus~ness until 1862, when he was appointed by President Lincoln United States col- lector of internal revenue for the counties of Al- bany and Schoharie, 'vvhich office he held until Dec., 1869. In Jan., l870, he became connected with the Albany Insurance Company. He re- signed as manager in 18 82. In 1882 he was elect- ed treasurer of the Albany Savings Bank and held the position at the time of his death. On Dec. 18, 1851, Mr. Townsend ilnarried Miss Louise Mickle. She di:ed Aug. 3, 1862, and in June 15, 18 6 5, he married Miss Mary Lathrop Sprague. Mr. '.rownsend had four children, of whom the eldest Mrs. Winthrop S. Scudder died in 18 90. Two daughters and a son, John Townsend of St. Paul, Minn., survive him. '49.-T;h.e address of Andrew H. Green is 4 2 Mr. McHar'g was born in the town of Bethlehem, Wood\vard Terrace, Detroit, Mich . .Jan. 23, 1819. He had been a resident of Albany * * * * since graduation from college, with the exception V '56.-Jefferson Burns Weston, one of the found- of about two years' residence at Salem, Washing- ton County. He prepared for college at the Al- bany Academy and was a graduate of the Albany Law School. Mr. McHarg was adinitted to the bar at a General Term of the old Supreme Court in :0Tew York in 1846. Some years ago he was elected secretary of the Callanan Road Improve- ment Company, which positio11 he held up to the time of his death. He served on the board of public instruction of the city of Albany fro1n 18 6 6-6 8. In politics he was a Republican. He is survived by his wife and daughters, Mrs. H'ugo Reid of M.ontclair, N. J.-, and. Mrs. W.- L. Smith of Brooklyn. Mr. McHarg was a member of the ers of the city of Beatrice, Neb., died at his home at Beatrice, Sept. 15, 1905. He was born at Bre- mem, Maine, March 3, 18 31 and entered Union College at the age of twenty, In 18 57 he -went to the te.rritory of Nebraska and engaged in various freighting ventures across the plains to Denver until 1872, when he began th.e practice of lavv. In the fall of 1872 he was elected auditor of public accounts of Nebraska and held the office until 1879. From 1875 to-1885 he resided at Lincoln. Mr. Weston was one of the founders of the Beatrice National Bank and was elected president of the bank by the first board of directors. He held this position until his death. In 1860 he was r ,. I I I ,

of N. 1- a d s l ,. \ THE -CONCORDIENSIS rnarried to Miss Helen Towle, who with hi:s children Raiph A.~ Elizabeth L., and Herbert T .. , survives him. '~ * * * '60.-Charles :E.nory Smith has an article on \The InternatienELl Situation ·of Russia'' in the Annals of the .Anre:ri:can Academy, for July, 1905. News of the 'f'rack Notwithstanding the inc:lenilelacy of the weather during the first two weeks o·f co Uege, the track has heen rounded U.P in·tG ].)l'etty good shape. Captain Wa1dron has had ,squads out every day, for the past few days. Fetthousen is on. hand and wi'Il have his eye open for likely material in the -Samuel R. 'J'ha:yer delivered an address on freshman class. The fact that the track has lD€en tended to this ''Arbitration'' at the international Peace Confer- ence at Lucerne 1 :Switzerland, SepL 23, 1.905. * * * * /,69.-Frederick R. Marvin of Albany will pub..., lish shortly through Putnams a volume entitled \The Companions\hip ·of Books.\ * * * * '80.-Wil ber E. Anderson has been nominated for member of assembly by the Democrats of th.e first district of Albany County. '* * * * '02.-Howar d' M. Parsons has changed his ad- dress from Bu:fifal0 to 23 0 W. Main St. Batavia \' ' , N.Y. * * * * / '03.-Arthur P. Clark has opened his office for the practice of .medicine at New Hartford, ~. Y. * * * * '04.-James N. :Barkley and wife of Lake George attehded the summer session of Columbia University. ' fall and that interest is being taken so early leads us to think that our seasoi'l ·nex.t year can not be O·therwise than prosperous . 'There have been. rumors (passed about of the track's being enlarged, be!or€ long and various other improven1ents being nad:e. If some im- proveinents could be made an.d. the track wen hardened early in the spring till. ere is little doubt but that the track team of 190·6 ·will have the same good season that was accustomed to come to Un- ion's team a few years ago. The hearty co-operation ()f every man, whether of great or little ability is absolutely necessary. There are not many men im our college, but if everyone can sacrifice som:e of his time, and do something for his Alma Ma.ter to the best of his ability we can show ourselves to be equal to any adversary of our own calibre. Every freshman that has ever done anything on the track should be out \vithout fail, and any one who has never tried any work on the track, Style is King in Shoedom these days, and tb.at :{s no merry jest either. 'I!ie .careful clresser considers we[l the looks of fils shoes-the shape:~ finish:~ all the fittle points, friJrn heel to toe, which taken all together means ~~smartness. :II' These details are a.aded to the every best in q.~a1lty of leather a.nd ~orkmanshlp to ma.ke our $3.50 8{abob Shoes. Where? Only at Fea.rey' s Shoe Store 230 State St, .Scfienectacfy u On the rwrong side of the street'' 1 l 1 .. l

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS = can now have a chance to see what he can do. Several valuable men have been coming out during these few weeks. Schoolcraft, captain of the Fresiunan team last year, has been out regu- larly for work and is expected to make good in the sprints. A Fall meet wHI he held on the track, and then a definite i:dea .of what there is in the Freshman class can be obtained. Last year this meet was a great success and caused a great deal of interest. The rivalry was keen, and bids fair to be the same this year.' There are sev,eral places among the field events which can easily be filled. These latter are places which can be practiced without much loss of time. A little practice may be enough to win the place. The track work in the spring affords pleasant ,exercise and occupation, and any one of any ability at all who doesn't do something in the ath- letic line shows poor college spirit. Let every rnan get out and do everything in his power to help along the track team. Football WILLIAMS VS. UNION. For the first time in years Union meets Williams at football on the campus today. .F' TIFFANY & CO. Jewelers to Coileg,e Men .. * * * * De£igns and es,fiomates furnished tor Fraternity Pins_, Class Rings, ·Class Cups Stationery, Etc. * * * * No order will be accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy of the name of the House. UNION SQUARE,. NEW YORK ~e Correspondence Invited. ~~ ~ ~ Peck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Capt.) Bixby RJght Guard. Dann, (Capt.) ....................... Johnston Right Tackle. Wright I I I I I I I I f I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Elder Right End. Since the game last Saturday, Union has been putting in good hard practice. There has been a good squad out during the past week but still not as large as can be desired. Newton from the AI- \\ bany Law School has joined the squad and is show'ing up well at quarterback. Cook, '0 6, is also hard at work and is making a good showing both at quarterback and end. McNab (Starbuck) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Waters Quarter Back. The Williams team is about the same weight as Union and altogether everything points to a rather evenly played game. The game is called at 3: 3 0 sharp. The probable line-up will be: Union. Williams. Davis ...................... Curtis or Blaisdell Left End. Von Dannenb urg 1 e 1 I 1 I e I I I I I I I I I I I I I Marshall Left Tackle. Lent I I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I e I Eldridge Left Guard. Nutt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Campbell Center. Harvey I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Brown Left Half Back. Moore I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I C1 I I I I I • I I • I I I I I I I I I I Hill Right Half Back. Mulrooney I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I •I I I I I, I I I I I Bates Full Back. * * * :~ COLUMBIA ~NS-SEASON OPENS WITH A LOSS. Last Saturday Union was defeated by Columbia at American League· Park in New York by the score of 23-0, though the defeat was by no m.eans as bad as the New York papers represented. In fact those who saw the game say that for the first few minutes even Columbia's rooters kept pretty silent and it was only when th.e heat and Colum- !. !

on er I. rs II THE CONCORDIENSIS I5 hia's weight w·ore the men out that the game was sure. The game was opened by the kick-off to Wright, who carried the baH 10 yards. After two downs, :Moore punted., sending the ball over 50 yards. Right here, it :i!s well to say that Moore cohsistent- ly out;punted his· Columbia opponeNts throughout the game. The punt was returned and after another exchange, Columbia got the bal1 on the 2 5 yard line on a fumble, after which they steadily bucked through for .a touchdown, but .failed at goal. 5-0. M·cNab caught the kick-off but was downed in Dann . . .• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • Right ·Tack:te. Von Saltzen on the ball for a touchdown. The ball was punt- vVright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Muir, Hurley) Enos ed out to Columbia and under protection of a Right End. his tracks. Punts were exchanged. McNab fell close wedge formation, Helmdch ran 6:5 yards for McNab (Starbuck) . . . . . . . . . . (Bassett) Donovan Quarter Back. a topchdown. No goal. 10-Q. Uni-on kicked off) both sides still continuing the punting game. Davis was disabled and Hildreth substituted. The half closed just after a safety was m.ade on a high pass. Score: Columbia, 12; Union, 0. The second half opened with Merrill .and Star- Harvey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Armstrong) Helm.rich Left Half Back, Moore ........................ (McGee) Fisher Right Half Back. Mulrooney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Haskins) Starbuck Full :Back. Umpire, McClaire (Princeton); referee, Con- buck relieving Lent and McNab. Union lost the ball on the kick-off and Columbia easily pushed nelly, (N. Y. U.). Halves, 15 minutes. through 10 yards for the third touch-down . Kicked goal. 18-0. Nutt got the ball on the kick-off and at that time Union won several yard.s on line- bucking and end-runs by Mulrooney, Harvey and vV'right. More punting was then resorted to, and Colum- bia finally made another long run around Union's left end for the last touch down. No goal. 23-0. Union kicked off and soon after time was called. Final score: Columbia, 23; Union, 0. Union. Colun1bia. Davis (Hiildreth .... ,, ........... (Bangser) Post Left End. Von Dannenburg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Nalthing Left Tackle. Lent (Merrill). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Echeverria Left Guard. N u tt . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Aigel tinger Center. Peck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Davis) Duden Right Guard. NOTES. \The prospects for a successful football season at Wesleyan are brighter this year than ever be- fore in the history of the college. \All of last year's team are back except Capt. Eyster and among the new material may be men- tioned .Seeley, a 2 0 5 pound freshman, Hampson and Frank R.eiter, formerly of Princeton, and WOOD BROS. THE. :MEN'S OUTFITTERS. Have the Best and Latest Styles in Goods for Men. Manhattan Dress Shirts. Adlers, Fownes and Perrins Gloves. Crawford Shoes. The \Boston Derby\ and Tourist' Hats. The Largest Line of N eck,vear, 265 STATE ST. ,. ! : ',)

I' d ! I, II /i II ,, !i I! II l' I I :i6 Tf--tE c·oNCORDIENSIS = West, 'Who played last year 0n Exeter. '()'9 and the positions of. some of 1ast year's. men ''Twenty-seven men re)>o,rted for practice last have J3,een threatened. So far, however, no one Week. From tackle t• lael!:le the average weight of last years club kas lost his place, altho' several is 198 lbs. A. K. Deru-l>orn, right tackle, is cap- have deciGed not tG come ,out this year. At Dres- tain and \Hosey\ Retter· -will coa:ch.\-·-Wi..J]iams ent the list of m,en pieked i:s as follows: Record. * * * * G-LEE CLUB At N. Y. U., the outl:ook is bright for a suceess- ful season. Among the 1'1€W candidates are a 235 lb. guard, * * * * etc.. Fnr the first tine in several years a re.gil!l.lar training table wH[ be maintained by the foothaH association and picked men will be taken on it soon after practice hegins. -(~. Y. Tribune). First Tenors. M·0oers, '07 Col!\hin '09 Sterns,. '07 Fuller, '08 Davi1es, ' 1 0 8 Fi1•st Bass. Richardson, '07 Beers, '06 McMullen, '07 Second Ten(n~s. Watson, '08 Ti<edeman, '@7 Perry, '09 :Snow, '0<8 Cantwell, 'D7 O'Donnell, 'Q 6 (or 1st Bass) Second Bass. KHne, '08 Osborne, '07 Faust, '09 Bell, '08 Already about half of th.e ,anderground founda- tion for the new electrica11 engineering buH cl!ing has been completed. * * * * Harvard University wiH offer to her graduates and undergraduates the rie:best prize that has ever been held up for academic distinction. A prize of $500 will be awarded each year, by the department for the best thesis on any econo:m.i·c subject. The Musical Clubs The response to the caH for men to represent Old Union on the Glee and Instrumental Clubs was certainly encouraging. The present difficulty is not how to find men for the different positions, but how to pick the ablest fr.om the big bunch of applicants. Although the leader had expected to limit the Glee Club to sixteen_ or seventeen men, he changed his policy wheH about thirty men. applied; and so far, there have been picked twenty men, and this doesn't count a few of the old standbys who haven't reported. The same difficulty is experienced in picking instrumentalists. Exceptional performers on 1nandolin and violin have a:ppear~d in the class of Reed,'06 (or 2d'T.) leader Ma.r:x, '08 Gui,tars. INSTRUMENTAL CLUB Schoolcraft, '@8 I) a vies, '08 Marx, '08 Riee, '09 Reed, '@6 Fi<rst Violins. SheHey, '08 Vroornian, '08 Minahan, '08 Tiedeman, '08 Cornet. Stevens, '08 Cello. Kline, '08 l\Iandolins. Vandergrift, '0 9 Merrill, '·@ 9 Sehaupp, '09 Mead, '09 Stewart, '0 9 Secon(l Violins. Burleigh, ·' 0·9 Maughan, '0 9 Piano. Bell, '08 Reed, '06, leader };\'Jute. WeHes, '09 Reed, '06 Beside these men, a number are on trre waiting list, ready to take the places of their m.ore for- tunate competitors. At the first meetings or both clubs, the follo·wing Inoti-on was unanimously passed: \There shall be two Glee Club rehearsa}s and one Instrumental Club rehearsal per week; every member shall be allowed a certain definite num- ber of \bolts\ during the year and on over-step- ping this limit shall be ipso facto expelled from the Association.\ The Glee Club rehearsals will come every- Mon- day evening, from seven until eight and e-very / Wednesday afternoon from 4: 3 0 to 5 : 3 0. Tll.e In- strum·ental Club will rehearse at present on Tuesday afternoon from 4:30 to 5:30. At a joint m,eeting. of both. clubs, Richardson Lorraine Building Co~. State and Clinton '07, was elected President of the Musical Associa- Special Prices to Students tiGn and W}atson '0 8, Secretary. . The first eut-.of· H. R. Phone 366-li' town concert comes in about a month.

men one I pres- r- d . ADVER1'ISEMENTS Cfhis space reserved. for a. £(. Yfewman Sons [ornpan~ ,...._ ~cl'\tertectaclj ,, Rooms Beatet1 Throughout by Steam Refitted aml Refurnished HOTEL VENDOM.E EDWIN CLUTE, Prop Cor. of State and Centre Sts. Schenectady, N. Y Shampooing and Massage a Specialty. FRANK FRIEL, BARBER MOHAWK THEATRE SC!H E'N·ECTA DV, N. V. . WEBER & RusH, Props. & M.grs. ,. •.A' L .. . : .W· .A. . . y s A s H 0 w Entire Week Starting Monday Matin:ee, Oct. 9 '''SOUVENIR bAY, FRIDAY, OCT. 13TH.\ Handsome Souvenirs to all Ladies Atten~ling Afternoon and Evening Performances. ONLAW TRIO Wonderful Equipose a:nd W.ire Workers. GRIFF BROTHERS Herculran Athletes. WOODFORD'S EDUCATED ANIMALS SAILOR & BARBERETTA The Man and Girl with the Ohangea;ble Eyes. LARKIBS & PATTERSON Singers and Dancers Par ExceUel!lce. MUSICAL SIMPSONS Premier Artists. KINETOGRAPH. Special Feature GRACIE EMMETT & CO. Presenting Her Laughing Hit, \Mrs. Murphy's Second Husband.\ PRICES Matinees 10 & 20 Cts. Evenings 15 to 5'0 Cts. Home Phone 173. COMING-DELLA F·OX M ·A T I N E E E v E R y D A y f. A. RICKARD B Co. SPOR TJNG GOODS an,d lf'1tll Line of l)ra mi-ng .Instr'll?nents. 253 State Street Schenectady F. ROTHMYER Groceries, Provisions, Fruits, Etc • !04-106 STATE STREET Home Phone r6g H. R. Phone I6g-W. The Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. WALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Bldg. 313-315 State St. 5cfipse c(aundry 2I5 HULETT ST. J. H. PRUNIER, Prop. 120 Jay St., Schenectady, N. Y. Basement Clapham's Hotel. Work called for and delivered Snow Flake Work Home Phone 1020 li '!

:,; 'I '! I8 ADVERTISEMENTS. Elechic Lishth\.g Ap,pa.ratus. Electr.ic Railway Apparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transmiss;ion of Power. Sales offices in all the large cities of the United States. Genera] Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE 604/IAIVTEED fmlQJ~fl BOWLS MADE IN FRANCE Pi pes Repair~d one--- COLLEGE BOOKSTORE :0 0 0 Qu;ick Service. Correct Editions Guaranteed CAS:LER., ''0 6 DeMEY, '07 South Section, South CoHe.ge ~obson a /Idee BOOK MEN SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N·. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK, VEAL, LAMB, HAMS, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York. Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N.Y. Brooks Wo1·ks, Dunkirk, N. Y. Pittsburg Works, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Wo1·ks, Richmond, Va. Cooke Works, Paterson,!N.'J. Rhode Island Works, · Providence, R. I. Dickson Works, Scranton,!P.a. Manchester Works, lVlanchester,~N.IH. Locomotive & Machine Co. Montreal, Canada . BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE.

====...:::=: >RE ,y, '07 A J .• y. ~rty - • ADVERTISEMENTS ·CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE, New York City .?:\'HE cou~se. coverin~ ~our years begin~ dur!ng the first week in ·October and continues until June. 'Lt A prehm.tnary trainlf!g. tn ~atural scten~e Is of gre~t ~dvantage. . . . . . . . All the classes are divided tn small sectwns for recttabon, laboratory and clintcal bedstde mstruchon. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the requisite exa~:ninations. The successful completion of the first year in anyCollege or University recognized by the Regents of the State of N~w York as nn.intaining a satisfactory standard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for adtnission which have lately been raised. The annual.announcem·ent giving full particulars wiB be mailed on applicati'on. WM. M. POLK, M. .0., LL. D., DEAN, 19 Cor.nell University Medical College, 27th and Z8tl\ Streets and 1st Avenue, N. Y. City BOTH PHONES J 127 Lark Street, Albany, N. Y. 1 MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -Furnished Music- Union College-93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03, '0£, 'OS. Cornell University-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02, '03. 'Colgate University---'94}95,'96, '97,'98, '99,'00, '01, '02, '03, '0&, '05. Williams Oollege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, ~02, '03, '0&, '05. Hamilton Oollege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02, '03. Governor's ~ansion- '94, '95, '96. '97, '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03, '0£, '05. CThe Gazette is easi[J the foremost daily in Schenectady. -PR.INTERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904 EDWIN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Schenectady ·Railway Company Razors Honed : Opposite VanCYrler, J&.y Street BATHS~ The best equipped shop in the city~ All modern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor toR. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steam.ship Agency l:SJ State Street Schenectady, N. Y. WHOLESALE AND, ... RETAIL BOTH PHONES 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck Coal and Mason Supplies Office l06 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. CHAS. LIMME.R •. Florist •• LORRAINE BLOCK STATE StREET Both Phones ELECT~IC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATING ELECT'RIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS 'Telephone .425 '., General Office 420 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six Forn1alities, THE ·vARSITY MAN WHO WEARS \STEEFEL\ QUALITY CLOTHES HAS THE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER. IF HE TRIED.. STEEFEL BROTHERS 78-80-82 State Street Albany, N .. Y. PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS i ! ! I' . J

There is a certain air and ·style about our Clothimg that you do ltot get anywhere else. There is a liberality about it and a .fi.neness of finish that is only secured by the greatest of care. The fit is perfect, the style up to d;ate and the ,fabrics the most approved. Our Hats and Furnishings also express the mo.st approved styles. BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROA:DWAY ALBANY, N. Y. We make the most Up-to-date and Best Fitting Clothes . . . . . . . . . . . . . We have the Finest and Largest Assort- ment of Fabrics to Select From We carry the Best Line of Gents' Furnishings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . We give the Best Value for SOc, $1.00, $J.50 Neckwear of any house j In~ Schenectady STULL BROS Tailors and Haberdashers Near Clinton 467 State St. \ ,

\ ' I .i \ + + + + THE + + + + ~CONCORDIENSlS , VOLUME XXIX NUMBER 3 OCTOBER 14, 1905 . - ·: College L\b ' I rary coL l·E·~E u . · \\ - nllL . PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

. ' .. ~ I ., ,· i' ! ~ . '. 2 ADVERTISEMENTS = =======:===========:::===========================··- =. Union University. ANDREW V. Vi RAYMOND, 11. 11., LL D.~ PRESIDENT. V N ION' OOLLEGJJJ;:: SOIIEN EOTA.D Y, N· Y. I. Course Leading to the Degree of A. ·o. 2. C<»urse Leading to the Degree of B. S. l. Course Lead-iB.g to,the<Degree of' Ph. B. 4. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. 5. Sanit·ary Coutse Leading to·· the Degree of B. E. · 6.. Electrical Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. This differs from. course £ i:n substituting special work in Electrinit·y·\'atid ·its'\a))pUcatfons in· pl[;l.ce of som·e of the General Engineering studies. This course is -offered in co-ol:)eration with the· Edison Ge'ne.ral Electric Company, un- der the immediate supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7· · Oraduate Course in Engineerin:g Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of_ courses £, 5 o:r 6. For catalogues or for special information, address BENJAMIN H. RIPTON,. Dean of the CoUege, Schenectady, N .. Y. .DEPARTMENT OF ME.DIOINE. Al;bany N:edical College.-Instruction by Lectures, Recita• tion~ Clinics, Laboratory Work. and Practical npArations. Hqspital and Laboratory advantages excellent .. Catalogues and circulars containing :full information, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, :Albany~ N. Y: . DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Al'bany Law School.-'l,his department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. · The course leading to the degree of LL.B., is two years, each year is divided into two •semesters. Expenses.- Matriculation fee, $10;; tuition fee,. $100. For cata~ogues or other information, address ALBANY LAW:SOHOOL, ~ R.ECENTL Y ENLA I WITH 25:,.000 NEW WORDS\ AND PHRASES New Gazetteer of the World New Biographical Dictionary Edited by W. T. HARRIS, Ph.D., LL.D., United States Commissioner of Education • 2380 Quarto Pages. 5000 Illustration.s. FREE \Dictionary Wrinkles.\ Also illustrated pamphlets. . , G. & C. M!E.JlRIAM CO. Publishers, Springfield, Mass. GE.T TH:~ BEST LYON'S DRUO STORE JOHN J. HUGHES, Secretary Albany, N. Y. AlBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Agency for Huyler's Bon Dons and Chocolates. Eastman Kodaks, Films and aU Photo Supplies. Prescriptions Accurately and Reasonably Filled. Jl5 STATE ST., Cor. CJin~on SCHENECTAD.Y Exercises held in Albany Medical Colle~e Building. For· catalogue ;,.nd information address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretarr., . Alb~ny, l'l. Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES . Fraternity House Supp1ying.a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty: COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y .. MAKERS OF CAPS, OOWNS and HOODS to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. : Class contracts a specialty. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 237 State-St.- ·· ·· Schen.ee-tady,. N •. Y.

I . .. .. ADVERTISEMENTS 3 CHAS. H-oLTZMANN & SoN are the ideal college 1M-en's Hats. In buying them. we ·had the men of Fnion CoHege in mind. We have shapes tha·t will pl-ease you college men. They :are $3.00, with our usual coiilege discount . THE TEN E Y C K /1)-- -- qlJ GEE Success0r to crJ.., • c:J Yl. C GERARD US SMITH .A..L:SANY ~ N. Y _ :I?os5.ti-vely F5.re-F:roof_ Dealer in COAL .AND WOOD European Plan. Most attractive Hotel inN ew York State. Near S•rATE CAPITOL and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra l\Imdc during evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. H. J. ROCKWELL ®. SON KEELER'S EvEO:J?EAN Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N.Y. Gentlemen Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Restaurant Attached SPECIAL NEW RATHSKELLAR. Bowlin.& Alley and Billard lloom also Twenty-five Private Dinning R.ooms Wm. H .. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507 ®. 509 Broadway .·• THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Tlze Largest and Best App.ointed Hotel in the City. • Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. Telephone ~21 140 South Centre Sf. Schenectady, N. Y. ---------------- ----- H. S. BARNEY CO. Headquarters for M ' F 'h' en s urn1s tngs H. R. Phone 175-M. Ho1ne Phone 192 -GATES- COLLEGE BAGGAGE EXPRESS Agen.t Outside of Station Office l25 Wall Street For Hats. Caps, F\lrs, Trunks, Bags. Suit Cases. Etc., ga to M.MANN'S Successor to L. T. Olu.te Headquarters for Stetson a.nd Knox Hats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equi:pped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which c.an be rented for Private Parties only, in c<>nnection with house. 29 Front Street Schenectady, N .. Y ...

li ~ . ) ' . ~ ,, '·, 4 ADVERTISEMENTS .EDMOND ELIABLE ESTAURANT THE GOOD PLACE· Weddings Banquets :Private 1Parties SERVED in a 1 High C:lass Manner \ T5he LEVI MOORE Studio \ Emory Ircolng Wenclell 7 Proprietor MAKERS OF ARTISTIC PH010GRAPHS 15 North Pearl Street Alhany ;f N: Y. firthur J. ldhite Successor to MacLean ··3he College Photographer'' Liberal Discount to College Men. We try to use you right. MacLean Negatives on 'File. GO TO --- P L J 49. 2 Home none i 47m H. R. F. D. ::S:U:SE:e~s FOR FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL, GYM, GOLF, AND HIGH CUT HUNTING SHOES. ALSO HEAVY SOLE OXFORDS FOR FALL AND WINTER. 457 STATE STREET :t:v.I:e:n. \s and :Soys' Shoe Sto:re A. L. OWENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, N. V lJan~ur[er Q)pera .!)ouse C. H. BENEDICT .Manager TELEPHONE No.ll5 MR. JOHN McCLOSKEY MERCHANT TAILOR Invites your attention to his new Hne of Fall Wool- ens for the season of r9o5. His line will be found replete with Novelties and absolutely new, which marks it one of unusual merit. No old stock. :rs·obb~ Clothes for College Men. The College Tailor . 126 WALL STREET

r I. ;.t t l I THE CoNCORDIEN,sis VOL. \'¥XIX. uNJOA' coLLEGE, ocr. I 4 , I 9 o 5 . No.3· .MORE STRE.NUOUS LIFE Dr. Eliot's Advice to Freshmen \It is a very saf~ protective rule to live today as if you were going to m.arry a pure woman within a month, That rule you will find a safe- New Bleachers for the Campus The new bleachers came as a most pleasant .sur- prise to all after the announcement by the foot- ball rnanagem.ent that the bleachers on both sides of the campus were to be reserved for the \Vii- guard for life. It is a good rule early to work liam,s game. to learn how to work hard. It i.s a good rule The bleachers are the gift of the college Chris- never to tak~ four minutes to do what you can well accomplish in. three minutes, or to take four years to do what you can well accomplish in three years. It is a good rule to live intensely. And it is a good rule to live today and every day like a man of honor.\ Such was the ad vice given to the 19 0 9 fresh- man class of Harvard by President Charles W. Eliot in the Harvard Union last week. \As an indispensable foundation for solid, dur- able satisfaction,\ he said, \a young man ought first to he a clean, wholesome, vigorous animal. That is the foundation for ~verything else. \The second thing necessary is a strong mental grip, a wholesome capacity for hard mental work. The great difference between the privileged class of ~ducated men to which you belong and the great majority of other people is that the educated class lives by the exercise of mental, not physical, powers. \The third thing necessary is a spotless reputa- tion. This only comes by living with honor, on honor; by b~ginning to live so now. There are things an honorable man won't do, can't do. He will never do wrong or degrade a woman. H.e will never oppress or cheat a person weaker or poorer. He is honest, sincere, candid, generous. It isn't enough to be honest. An honorab)e man must be honest, not with money alone, but in judgments, judgments of women, men, history and the prospects .of mankind. Evidence shows that honor comes, not in the favorite judg·ment of our tian Association and the only condition stipulated in the gift is that they shall always be reserved for the students in order to promote better singing and yelling. The gift is one that affects every f~llow in college and should receive merited ap- preciation. New Boiler Room Excavating is now being done for a new boiler room to be erected in the rear of the left wing of Washburn Hall. The new building, the dimen- sions of whi.ch are 40x40 feet, is to be of brick and is to have an 3 5 -foot metal stack. By this new arrangement the heating of the various col- lege buildings will be much facilitated. At pres- ent the boiler room is under Washburn Hall and the quarters are very much cramped. The build- ing is not to be completed until Spring, College Briefs Houghton, Mifflin & Com.pany announce a new edition of Shakespeare's \Henry V,'' in their Riv- erside Literature Series, by Prof. Edward E. Hale, Jr. * * * * Prof Olin H'. Landreth read a paper on \Water Resources of This State Available For Poftable Water Supplies,\ before the Fifth Annual Confer- ence of the Sanitary Ofifcers of the State of New York at Albany, Oct. 5. * * * * elders, but .of our contemporaries.. This judg- Watson, '04, Quinn, '05 and Cantwell, ex-'06 ment is most important. were on the Hill Saturday and Sunday.

T I .I, ''I \' ~. ' 6 M·onday morning a student tax of fifty cents \\'as levied by the student body to help defray the cx- pe.nse connected with fixing the skating rink. There is a consensus of opini-on that the ditches in various parts of the campus shoul:d 'he marked 'by lanterns at night. Seve.ral students l:J,ave fallen into them, some befng painfully hurt. '['lien, too, any one, ignorant of the J:ay of these exca:va:.Hons is liable to injury through the lack of precaution: on the part of tb:e contractor. * * * * ''Prexy'' has put a banrr upon chapel rushes. He announced that chapel ru:shes, if continued, would mean the distontinuance of college meet- ings. * * * * * * * * A preliminary survey of the skating rink was The tennis tourney is on in. ful'l force. Many sets have been pilayed thus far, and the interest of the students is quite marked. VVe have good reasons for a successful season next s:r>,ting, as we have a mass of exctUent players to pie\k from. :made Tuesday! * * * * Prof. Ashmor~ has made a novel departure in his Sophomore Latin class. He has opened a psychical dei1tistry laboratory in Room 3, Wash- burn Hall, with hours on Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 11 to l2 A. 1\I. He makes announcements that there are enough vi·ctims in the Sophomore class to keep him busy for thi·s term at least. None others need apply. * * * * King has been elected captain of the Senior Football team. He will hold office if there is a team. * * * * The motto of the Glee Club is to be \Mark Mark, Mark.'; * * * * Vogt is losing his proboscis. * * * * The site of the new boiler house is rapidly being deared of underbrush and stumps. Mr. Pond intends to have the new boilers under cover before cold weather comes, although the college will be heated by the old plant this season. * * * * Prof. Ashmore's schedule for Freshm.an Latin classes seems to be invariably 12 M., to 1:15 P. M. * * * * '~Let there be light.\ * * * * 'rhe Junior Hops \viii begin Xov. 3rd, at the Yates boat house. * * * * r.rhe foundation of the new Electrical Labora- :tory has been completed. * * * * Now for a corking hockey team. Spier :has left, to be sure and we miss him, but we hava Fuiier, '08, \Vho piayed goal on Cornell 'varsity ~ !'l'0·8-4-5·. * * * * Everybody works but C. B; he sits around all day, Feet upon a flat-top desk, taking our money away. Prexy works for that money, the test of work are fond ( ?) Everybody works in Union, but C. B. Po.nd:. \Tinkle.\ Alumni '46.-Stephen Marshall Ingalls died at his home at Springfield, N. Y., June 8, 1905, in th_e 80th year of his age. Mr. Ingalls vvas born at Middle- field, X. Y., Feb. 18, 1826. He attended school at Hartwick Seminary and graduated from Union College at the age of twenty. Mr. Ingalls was a comm,encement orator and was elected to mem- bership in Phi Eeta Kappa. He was a member of the Philomathean Society and the Delta Upsilon fraternity. He studied law and was adm.Hted to the> bar in 1849 at Cooperstown, N. Y .. and prac- ticed his profession at Addison and Springfield. Mr. Ingalls \vas much interested in educational matters and was one of the founders of the East Springfield Academy and for fifteen consecutive years was pr·esident of the Board of Trustees. He was principal of the Canajoharie Acade:rn.y for two years and of the Pompey Academy for one year. Mr. Ingalls held the local offices of town auditor, supervisor and justice of the peace and ' .j --\ \

ches too, is on est ood as a n 0 1 I .j --\ ,,, \ THE CONCORDIENSIS 7 postmaster of Springfield. Anna Davy, A:prH 2, 1857. wi'fe and three daughters. He married Margaret He is survived by his Mr. Ingalls was a frequent contributor to periodkals on religious, economic and educational s:ubj.ec.ts.-·-·Johli W. Ste b:bi:ns, a prominent lawyer of Rochester diad in August at the Hahneman1,1 Hps.pital, aged 86 years. He had been. ill with a general breaking down, but his illness was not regarded as serious, until a day bBfore his removal to the hospital. Mr. Stebbins was born at Herkimer, N. Y., Oct. 22, 1819. He was the son of John and Achsah Stebbins. He ·obtained his early education at the Wesleyan Se,minary at Cazenovia. M 1 r. Stebbins first took up the profession of teaching_, bo2ing p:rincipal or Macedon Academy from 1846 to 1850. He studied law in the meantime and was admitted to the bar at Rochester in 1851. He .soon became interested in politi·cs and was elected to the As- sembly in 1855. He was one of the presi,dential electors on the Lincoln ticket in 18 6 4, and was postmaster of Rochester from 1865 to 186 9. Mr. Stebbins was grand master of the New YorR: State Grano Lodge of Odd Fellows from 1875 to 1877, 5, 190'5. Mr. M.cCoy was born at Wantage, N. J., Dec. 3, 1823. His parents were Andrew R., and Mary Wintermute McCoy H.e attended school at Papakating a.nd Deckertown and taught school from' 1844 to 1846. In 1.846 he entered the Sepho·- m.ore class of Uni~on College. Mlr. M'cCoy assisted his father on the farm in 1851-2. and in 1853 ac- cepted a position as civil engineer on the Belvidere and Deleware Railroad. Later he was in the em- pl·oy of t:fu.e Missouri Pacific Railway. He return- ed to Papakating and took up farming on the old home~tead, which he bought in 1858. H.e was married to Jane Hall of Wantage in 1851. She died July 14, 1893. * * * * '52.-G. P. Putnam's Sons announce a new edition o;Jf David Murray's \Japan in their Story of the Nations Series. * * * * '61.-\EJU Perkins\ has an article on \From Oriental Note Book\ in the Four Track News fo·r Sept., 19 05. * * * * '68.-Grenville M. Ingalsbe read a paper on \A grand sire of the Grand Lodge of the United Bibliography of Sullivan's Indian Expedition\ be- States from 1894 to 1896 and grand representa- fore the New York State Historical Society at Lak.e tive to the Sovereign Grand Lodga of the World George, Aug. 22nd. Mr. Ingalsbe was re-elected for seventeen years. Mr. Stebbins' \Jurisprudence Vice President of the Society. of Odd Fellowship\ and \History of Rebekah Odd * * * * Fellowship;' are regarded as authoritativ~. Mr. Ste hbins had lived for many years with his son J. Ward Stebbins at 14 Oxford St., Rochester. Mr. Stebbins was ~ mem.ber of the Sigma Phi frater- nity and the Phi Beta Kappa Society. * * * * '77.~Prof. Franklin H. Giddings has in prepar- ation a book entitled \Readings in Descriptive and Historical Sociology\ to be published by the Macmillan Compa:r\y. * * * * '86.-Rev. Harvey DeWitt Griswold, of Lahore, '47 . ..,.....,.Georg.:l B. Warren is dead at Troy. He India, read a paper on \The Messiah of Qadian\ was born in Troy, June 9, 1828 and had lived there before the Victoria Institute, May 15, 1905.-. The all his life. His grandfather was mayor of Troy and the deceased was also mayor of the city dur- ing thE;l Civil War. He is survived by a widow, three sons and a daughter.\-Daily Union, Oct. 10, 1905. * * * * Albany Medical Annals for Oct., 1905, publishes Dr. J. M/ontgomery M'osher's paper on \Specialties in Medicine,\ which was read before the Ogdens- burg M!edical Society at its 4Oth anniversary, Sept. 5, 19 05. * * * * '51.-.James Wintermute McCoy, surveyor and ·.t '89.-:Michael D. Nolan o·f Troy has been nomi- , farmer, died of the infirmities of .age at his home nated for member of assembly by the Democrats with his son, James R., at Papakating, N. J., June of the Second Renssel::ter district of Troy.

' ,, ' 8 'tHE CO~CORDIENSIS '90.-The address of George H. Clute :s 1\'Lnne- apolis, Minn. comm~tted to N ott, as a leader of the younge:r ministers of Eastern New York, the prineipl·es of the plan of Union, which did .so mllCh not only for Union College, but aliso for t:q~ ecclesiastical and evangelical life of the whole .. r~gion in which the * * * * '98.-'The Report of the State Paleontologist of ~ew York for 1903, recently published, contains \Xotes on the Siludc or Ontartc Section of Eastern Xew York,\ by C. A. B:artnagei. '~ institution was founded, a~d into which there vver·e then great num,bers of,..the very best immi- grants. The serv:ce of Dr. John Blair Smi~h, . as president of Union Coll~cv de~er:vc.s to be fully ·written. It was a great and fr~Hful. service for * * * * ·o3.-George W. Donnan and Grace Foster of Troy were 111arried Oct .. 3, 190'5. John Blair Smith {From \HJstory of Old Pine Street,\ ty Hughes 0. Gibbons.) While the Pine Street people were seek:ng for a rninister, the pastor. 1vho1n they had given up ,,~ith so deep a sorro\v, was actively at work at L'\nion College. He was the first president of that institution. which had been a long-cherished en- terprise. His high scholarly attainments, his long experience in edu-cational work, and his genius for leadership and organization brought success to the infant institution. He unified the Presbyter- ian, Congregational and Reformed Dutch elements of the regi,on in which it was planted, so that the school becan1e in fact Union College. His service as president of the institution bears out this sin- cere and beautiful tribute fron1 one who was thor- oughly acquainted \Yith Dr. Smith: \His wisdom, Inodc-ration, and clearness of conception. added to 11 ... ~ . '. the cause o.f Christian educatLen.'\ Op~ning Exercises of College. of Pharmacy The Aibany College of Pharmacy opened M.on- day ev€ ning, Oct. 2. ChanceHor Raymond of Union University was expected to deliver an address, but was unabie to be present. The exercises, consequently, were considerably shortened, consisting only of a short, though interesting address by Dr. Tucker, and some very good advice by Dr. Husted. Nearly all of last year's class were back, and a cordial v~/elcom.c and hearty hand shake were the order of the evening. The junior class of th~s year numbers about twenty-five members. Doctor Hale on \The Taming of the Shrew\ Wedn.esday evening Doctor Hale gave a very interesting talk on Shakespeare's most popular comedy. The attendance was unusually large and everyone was well-repa,id for coming out in the disagreeable weather. Before proceeding to a discussion of the play itself Doctor Hale talked· upon various things of interest in connection vvith Shakespearian plays. The play itself was particularly well handled, the portions read being arnusing as well as interest- ing. The talk was a most fitting introduction to a good appreciation of the performance as g:v~n last evening by M1ss Marlowe and Mr. Sothern. a happy faculty and pertinence in speech. a force in reasoning, and a \Vell-known and approved zeal for truth and duty, contributed to render h:'s counsel al\yays weighty and for the most pa'rt de- cided.\ Many things in Dr. Smith's life-work prove the justice of this testimony. One of the most interesting is Dr. Sm.ith's influence over Eliphalet Xott. It may be said that he discovered Xott, v\·hen on his way to take charge of a home missionary appointment. That evening vYhich the young man spent with Dr. Smith 1vas ind2ed an 'E'poch in his life. The doctor introduced him to Presbyterianisin, clearly presenting to his mind the fact that orthodox Congregationa1isn1 was pre- ·Cisely the same system of doctrine that had always been maintained by the Presbyterian Church. He Dartmouth has this year adopted the system of a single athletic tax instead of the usual cus- tom of having separate subscriptions for each branch of athletics. i I 1 ' ·'

unge:r I~es of ly for l and the there .as fully for -vvas to ort, a ar in s. 0 '\ THE CONCORDIENSIS 9 ··---~ ----· --- =================== ----- --------- Christian .Association VESPER SER.VICE: ~lr. Rogers will speali on \Work in the Phillipines/' TUESDAY EiVENING: l\Ussion l{aHy-·· L. It. Lewis, '06, leader. Sunday Mr. Rogers, a missionary from the Phil- lipines,. will .speak. We are fortunate in having him with us as his experiences make him well able to give us a good picture of religious condi- tions in this dark possession of ours. Congress, reaUzing the duty we owe them, sent Secretary Taft with a commdssion to fully learn of Philli- pine needs and we as students should all be in- terested in what Mr. Roger·s will say. The Mission Rally will place before the fellows what work is to be undertaken in the class to be formed and why such a class is offered. Let everyone come out and hear what is to be said on the subject. Vesper Service R.ev. B. w, R. Taylor of St. George's Church led Sunday's Vesper Service with an address on \'Spiritual Athletics.\ After giving a short re- view of :;;orne of his own college days with an enthusiasm which made his listeners feel that he was still full of college spirit. Mr. Taylor said, \'Though in these days .colleges are apt to loose sight of the fact, there is no reason why they should not aim to try their undergraduates to spiritual rather than simply moral or ethical fit- ness. We. should strive for the development of manhooa along spiritual lines. There is a differ- ence between the spiritual athlete and the spiritual gymnast or contortionist who twists and turns under temptation. St. Paul hits on a good com- parison when .speaking of life as a race and as a fight. Training here in college means earnest preparation ori the spiritual side. It lies not along the pleasant alleys of life but must he de- veloped by constant wrestli:ng in prayer. We are here to undergo culture, to cultivate our bodies and our minds. Man is more than either body or mind; he has a spirit. A man without power of self-restraint, a man strong mentally and bodily It is dangerous to teach him his powers without teaching him their control. \There is a difference between morality and spirituality, though the ~orm.:lr depends upon the latter. MoraHty says, 'Know culture. Spiritual- ity; know God.' It is on 1 ly when we do this that we rise above ·men. The tendency nowadays is to say, 'Avoid dishonesty, killing, or committing adultery.' These are only part of the Teh Com- mandments. Thc3 rest say, 'Wo·rshi:p God.' \College life has a tendency to unfit men for the life it is .supposed to ·fit them for. The de- lights it opens to him are apt to overshadow its obligat:ons. For this reason small colleges are the. hest as they bring ·mren in to spiritual reiation to their professors. \It ·is impo.rtant to get strength while we are in college as our manhood wH I be tested when we get into the world.\ :rgo7 GARNET Prospects Are :Good The E'ditor of the 1907 Garnet promis-es a book fully up to the standards of previous years, at least. The board has done nothing, as yet, ex- cept to organize and make preliminary arrange- ments with the representatives of various publish- ing houses. A photographer has also been selected for the work of the board. The Board of Eaitors is as follows: E. E. Harvey ................... Editor-in-Chief B. N. Mooers ................ Business Manager H. E. Butcher .... 1st Assistant Business Manager James Carhart ... 2nd Assistant Business Manager W. H. McClellan ................ Literary Editor L. S. Parsons .......... A_ssistant Literary Editor E. J. Wiederhold ....... Assistant Literary Editor Erastus Corning ........ Assistant Literary Editor Ralph Trumbull. ............ J ••••••• Art Editor C. R. Waters ................ Assistant Art Editor Roy Keigher ............... Assistant Art Editor H. G. Davis ..................... Athletic Editor W. 'T. Mcintosh ......... Assistant Athletic Editor N. C. Goodwin ...•..... Assistant Athletic Editor but without power of control is a dangerous man. Paul Wait ................... Secretary of Board

IO T'HE CONCORDIENSJS The Concordiensis. u1 L#erary' and [J\(ews WeeklY 'Publt'shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. Eu.tered at the Posto:ffi.ce at Sc~hen,ectady, N.Y .. as Second Class Matter BOARD OF EDITORS. D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, - F. L. MILLER, 'o6, F. W. NEWTON, '07, W. KING, 'o6, -. P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6,, B. W. :REED, 'o6, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o4, Editor-in-Chief Business Manager Asst. Business Mana:ger .. Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor Law Department ASSOCI:ATE EDITORS. E. 'C, BRADBEER, 'o7, W.T. MCINTOSH,'o7, L. S. PARSONS,'o7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, N. V. V. FRANCHOT zd, 'o7. 'REPORTORIAL STAFF. B. A. COLLINS, 'o8, A. V. V. RAYMOND, Jr. 'o8, L. S. HOFFMAN, 'o8, E. VANOLINDA, 'o8, M. S. WATSON, 'o8, M.. H. WEYRAUCH, 'o8. H. C. POWELL, 'o8 COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football {E. M. Dann, Captain; G. A. Vedder, Manager. Basebau{L. N. Rider, Captain; J. L. Moon, Manager. rrack {C. N. Waldron, Captain; S. J. Raymond, Manager. Glee Club {B. W. Reed, Leader; G. C. Newbury, Manager. Instrumental Club ) B. W · Reed~ Leader; I G. C. Newbury, Manager. Concordiensis {D. F. I~rie, Editor; F. L. Miller, Manager. Garnet 5 E. E. Haevey, Editor, i B, N. Mooers, Manager. Y. M. c. A. j C. N. W. aldron, President; ~ A. S. ICmght, Secretary. TERMS. OUR SINGING. Perhaps the n1ost powerful incentive for the accomplishtnent of a given purpose is song. Down through the ages song un- doubtedly has been an important factor in the rise and fall of nations. Again and again, as we turn the pages of history, the chapters of which have been stained with the crimson record of battle_, we are remind- ed of the fact that the power of song has figured in no insignificant way. This may or 1nay not be to the point: the simile is perhaps overdrawn,' but nevertheless there is a likeness to be found in song as found ·in our college. Let us take, for exatnple, last Saturday's ga1ne. Could we then have had a well drilled chorus, it would have done no harm and might have helped immeasurably to cheer the tean1 on. But, on the contrary, the singing then was,-well, we hate to say all we think. But it certainly wasn't tnusic. Our lack was made particularly tnanifest by the sharp contrast afforded by the sn1all group of Williatns' rooters, whose· singing it was a pleasure to hear. That cannot be said of ours. It was a poor attempt, and, we tnust better it, for our songs are too fine to murder. CoNCORD I ENS IS, Single Copies, $z.oo Per Year,~in Advance ro Cents Address all communications 'to THE CONCORDIENSIS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. In sotne other colleges they have what are known as \college sings.\ At these the entire .student body is brought together to rehearse its various songs, so that when necessary, the college is capable of render- ing its songs in such a way as to give pleas- ure to the hearers and to inspire enthusias1n in those fighting for it. V\T e believe that this would be productive of much good here. Another point con1es to our mind. VVhy can't we }]ave some good snappy football songs. Last year we had sotnething of this style, set to the refrains of various popular songs. \1\f e have rhymsters aplenty here; what can they do for us in this line? ; <. l I:

for . 1s un- 111 and the has lS ' s rm to . by be s r ' ' fi'•'. I l . I I THE CONCORDIENSIS II Now, this paper cannot, for various rea- sons, be run on a charitable basis. -The Triangle This expresses, word for word, our senti- n1!ents. It stands to reason that charity is not the sole aim in getting out a college paper. Too often it is the result. Certain of the feliows seem to have the idea that the Concordy is a source of unliln- ited \graft.\ It is, until the pipe goes out. The subscriptions colected from the college are a very necessary and important item. But these subscriptions are not forthcom- ing in the ~ay that they should be. It proba- bly isn't necessary to subscribe when you can ''sponge\ on your neighbor, but that shows· mighty poor spirit. The lack of support comes chiefly fron1 the freshmen. To them, doubtless, the Concordy seems but another of the many things here in -college created especially for their amusement and pleasure. \N\ e are really ashamed (for thetn) to say how few have filled out their subscription blanks . What is the n1atter? Isn't the paper run to suit them? We are open to advice and love \knocks.\ If there really is a reason why the paper is unsatisfactory, let us know. If not, show a little bit of the right kind of spirit and sub- scribe. The subscription rates won't break anyone. When the team really woke up last week, it showed what it could do. It showed that there is little chance of losing today's gan1e. But the fact of the gatne being reasonably certain, should not keep the fellows off the bleachers. The yelling at last week's game was good, if the singing was not. Let us keep it up. We have some mighty hard games ahead of us yet. A series of evening \sings\ has been inaugurated at Illinois. The purpose of these meetings is to make all students better acquainted with the col- lege songs. Waiting In Adirondack woods I lay, one chill September morn, Waiting for deer, watching for deer, And throagh the slowly rising mist the dead leaves looked for1oTn, Waiting for deer. My clothes were .soaked with morning dew, And I was chillded quite through and through, But stiH I waited-wouldn't you, To get a deer? Before a Western dry goods store I stood one wintry day, Waiting for \Dear watching for ''Dear'' And o'er the~ wind-swept w'indow pane, I watched the snow flakes play- Waiting for \Dear.\ Mjy lips were blue, m)y feet were numb, I thought I freeze before she'd come, And yet I bet you'd waited some, To get that dear. \By '06.\ The Reorganization of the Tennis Club On Monday, October 9, '05, the tennis enthu- siasts collected in Silliman Hall and talked over the prospects for this year. Eric King last year's prcsiden t not being in college, the m.eeting was called by Dwight, '06, the only remaining officer of last year's club. Several of those present at the meeting ex- pressed wishes that tennis interest might be heightened and more made of the team than has been in years passed. The club was reorganized. Dwight being elected president, and Vincent, sec- retary and treasurer. It was voted that the presi- dent or secretary make an effort to procure some matches. to be played off next Spring, and that a regular schedule be arranged with other colleges of our own size. The Full tournament was spoken of and several men registered on the spot. To date the number of registrations has largely in- creas-ed. The matches are to be played on the several fraternity courts and college courts, which- ever suits the convenience of the contestants.

;:J , . .. 1 ;, ;,1 1! 1 ~·f 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS ===============:====================~-.-~=- ==· :=:::::::::ot========= The admissh>n fee was decided upon as tw~nty­ five cents to be paid to the treasurer upon regis- tration. This money will be used for balls for this tournam·ent and if any is left over it will be plaeBd in th'e eiub's treasury in vi·ew .of meeting some debts that w'ill be incurred next Spring by ntltside m-p,tches and the Spring tournament. 'The .forming of this club prom,ises to be an in- terest making affair.; for the college tournaments which will be carried on under the :elubs auspicies and the outside matches will certainly draw the attention of mJ3,ny tennis enthusiasts. McNab (Starbuck), Q. B. Harvey (Armstrong), L .. H. B. M·oore (McNab), R. H. B. ShutLer (Mulrooney), F. B. WILLIAMS VICTORIOUS Union Drops Loose ;Game In a game full of surprises, Union was defeated by her old tim.e rival, Williams, on the campus. last Saturday. The main surprise was the score, after the two teams had been seen in prelim.inary Any one wishing to become a rnem ber of the practice. ThH next greatest surprise was the fact ~ .. club ·can do so by paying the same fee as is that we didn't win, after we had seen the teams chargad for the tournament, and applying to play. in the early part of the first half, tha either president or secretary. Rutgers vs. Union For the past week the team has been putting in som.e good hard practice and the scrubs, too, have been doing their share to duplicate last year's easy victory over Rutgers. A squad of about twenty-five men has been out every day, and the 'varsity has had all it could do to make Garnet team was overcom,e with stage-fright- no other term can express it. The Williams team did look big, it is true, but that is no excuse for the high s0hool style of footbaH which was used. When the team got over the idea that it was about to he ea:ten, it showed its supporters an article of football that it is hard to improve upon. Fron1. that time it was Union's .game; William;s' line was pierced and the ends turned apparently at will.. consistant gains on the scrub. The boys played football and retrieved themselves It is not expected · that the Rutgers team will be as easy this year as last, for its game is much improved. It defeatdd Stevens by 5-0, and was beaten by Trinity, 14-0. Some little change has been made in the 'varsity since the Williams game. The surprise of the fall is Shutler at full-back. Taken from sub-end to fill this position he has apparently made good and will probably start this afternoon's game in that position. His line- bucking has been a fea- ture of the week's practice. Anderson, '02, formerly quarterback, has as- sisted in coaching the team during the past week. His presence has helped the team considerably. The line-up: Davis (Cook), L. E'. Von Dannenburg, L. T. Lent (Knight), L. G. Peck, C. Merrill, R. G. Dann, (Capt.) R. T. Wright, R. E. nobly, turning a disasterous beginning into an ending which made glad the heart of every Union man present. The work of the ends throughout the game was worthy of mention, those being the mainstay of the team in the first half. In the second half everybody was in the game all the time. Moore was the best ground gainer. Von Danncnburg broke through repeatedly, once getting the Wil- liams quarter on a trick play and carrying him back several yards before being downed. The other aspects of the game were satisfac- tory. The day was perfect, though possibly a trifle warm. 1 The financial end was a success,. nearly 1,5 00 spectators being on the campus. The game itself was cleanly played except for the tendency of one of the Williams ends to swing his. arm.s in a pugilistic manner at every down. There was a large delegation from Albany, who cheered enthusiastically for the college, a fact much appreciated. To add to the general enjoy- ! '

' l J . I l' ' . I \.' 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS The admission fee was decided upon as twenty- five cents to be paid to the treasurer upon regis- tration. This money \ViU be used for balls for this tournament and if any is leift over it will be placed in the club's treasury in view of meeting some debts that will be incurred next Spring by outside 1n-p,tches and the Spring tournam.ent. 'The forming of this club promises to be an in- terest making affair; for the coilege tournaments vvhich. will be carried on under the ciubs auspicies and the outside matches will certainly draw the attention of many tennis enthusiasts. Any one vdshing to become a n1.em'9er of the club can do so by paying the same fee as is charged for the tournament, and applying to either president or secretary. Rutgers vs. Union For the past week the team has been putting in some good hard practi1ce and the scrubs, too, have been doing their share to duplicate last year's easy victory over Rutgers. A squad of about t\venty-five men has been out every day, and the 'varsity has had all it could do to make consistan t gains on the scrub. It is not expected · that the Rutgers team. will be as easy this year as last, for its game is much ilnproved. It defeated Stevens by 5-0, and \.vas beaten by Trinity, 14-0. Some little change has been made in the 'varsity since the Williams game. The surprise of the fall is Shutler at full- back. Taken from sub-end McNab (Starbuck), Q. B. Harvey (Armstrong), L .. H. B. Moore (McNab), R. H .. B. Shutler (Mulrooney), F~ B. WIL,LIAMS VICTORIOUS Union Drops Loose Game 'In a game fl!lll of surprises, Union was defeated by her old tim.e rival, Williams, on the campus last Saturday. The main surprise was the score, after the two teams had been seen in preliminary practice. The next greatest surprise was the fact that we didn't win, after we had seen the teams play. In the early part of the first hal'f, tha Garnet team was overcome with stage-fright- no other term ean express it. The Williams team did look bi·g, it is true, but that is no excuse for the high school style of football which was usad. When the team got over the idea that it was about to be eaten, it showed its supporters an article of football that it is hard to improve upon. From that time it was Union's game; William.s' line was piercad and the ends turned apparently at will. The boys played football and retrieved themselves nobly, turning a disasterous beginning into an ending which made glad the heart of every Union man present. The work of the ends throughout the game \vas ·worthy of mention, those being the mainstay of the team in the :first half. In the second half to fill this position he has apparently made good everybody '\vas in the game all the time. Moore and '\Viii :probably start this afternoon's game in '\Vas the best ground gainer. Von Danncnburg that position. His line-bucking has been a fea- broke through repeatedly, once getting the Wil- ture of the week's practice. Anderson, '02, formerly quarterback, has as- sisted in coaching the team during the past week. His presence has helped the team considerably. The line-up: Davis (Cook), L. E'. Von Dannenburg, L. T. Lent (Knight), L. G. Peck, C. Merrill, R. G. Dann, (Capt.) R. T. Wright, R. E. Iiams quarter on a trick play and carrying him back several yards before being downed. The other asptcts of the game were satisfac- tory. The day was perfect, though possibly a trifle warm. 'T'he financial end was a success ' nearly 1,5 00 spectators being 011 the campus. The game itself was cleanly played except for the tendency of one of the Williams ends to swing his arm.s in a pugilistic manner at every down. There was a large delegation from Albany, who cheered enthusiastically for the college, a fact much appreciated. To add to the general enjoy-

m d. .. g . ! . 'THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 :rp,e_1:1t, tP._~ Williams root•ers sang and Union tried t~:\. · Last but not least was the eminently satis- factory :stand of one o.r two R. P. I. men who came w:th the avowed intention of rooting for Williams, which they did. One had the kindness, after the first touchdo-wn, to inf.orr:n us, backed by all the power of a lusty pair ·Of lu,ngs, that we were beaten, a fact patent to all. His voice sounded familiar, a:s· we. have, be:Eore this, heard the same remarks from the sa·me sop.rce, though with less justification. The game was called at 3.: 3 2. C. Brown re- ' ' - ceived the kick-off. for Williams, returning about ' ' . five yars. A. Brown· th.en r·ar~ forty far·a·s, being downed by MeNab. After tvvo orthree downs, C. Brown went through guard for a touchdo\\,..n. Bixby kicked the goal. 6-0.. Williams ki-cked off and Davis returned the ball 15 yards, but Union lost the ball iminediately by ·wretched fumbling. Union was forced nearly to the goal_ when the baH was recovered and Moore punted well down the field. VVilliams brought .. the ball back steadily by line-break:ng and finally Ro bb was rushed through tackle for the second touchdown. Bixby again kicked the goal. 12-0. Steady line bucking carried the ball to our 15 yard line when tim·e vvas called. in the second half Mc~ab ca-ugh.t the kick-off and ran 10 yards. Uni-on. was penali2ted for off- side play and Moore punted. Waters dropped the catch and Von Donn en 'burg fell on the ball.· Then began Union's best work. Moore made a 20 yan:l end-run, Dann bucked the line for: 5 yards, and Harvey gained arolilnd right end. U1~·ion lost the ball and after two unsuccessful down\'3, Wil- '· Iiams -vvas forced to punt, Harvey catchil~g the ball and running it back well. Then bet~an a ser:es 0-f short end runs and line ptunges, nE.ytth1.g from three to ten yards, that were taking the\ ball \Vell along towards the opposite goal, Will~~ 1 a1ns rushing substiutes in, in a vain attempt to ch\eck the advance. Time was soon called, leaving .tthe score-Williams, 12; Union, 0. Line up: Union. 'Villian1s. Davis .... , . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L. E. Von Dannen burg .............. (Johnson) L. T. Peck (Lent) ........................... Harter L. G. On the next kick-off, Bixby kicked the ball so · Nutt (Peck) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Campbell that it struck Peck squarely in the chest, bound- C. ing back into the arm.,s of a Williams 1nan. lVIerrill Eldridge . .., Style is King in Slzoedom these days~ a.nd that is tto merry jest either. Cfhe careful dresser considers ewell the looks of his shoes-the shape, .finish, a.ll the fittle points, from heel to toe, which taken all together means ~'smartness.,.' These details are a.daed to the every best in quality of leather and rn,orkmanship to make our $3.50 f}.,(abob Shoes . Where? Only at Fearey? s Shoe Store 230 Sta.te St, Schenectady uon the %rong side of the street'\ --- ....... --

re, or of m g 'T'HE CONCORDIENSIS 13 .- ----- -¥ -----.----:-- • - - -- ·- - . .~ -~- -- - - - --.:::=.=::::.=::=::.===:::;:..- • :rnent, tlle vVilliams rooters sang an.d Union tried Steady line bucking carried the ball to our 15 to. Last but not least \vas the en:nently satis- yard line when time was called. factory stand of one or two R. P. I. 'lneTl who ca.1ne ·w:th the avo\\·~d intention of rooting ,for Williams, In the second half McXab caught the kick-off and ran 10 yards. \Cnion \:vas venaliz:ed for off- w·h:ch they did. One had the kindness, after the side play and Moore punted. \Vaters dropped Ute first touchdown, to inform us. back<:'d by an the catch and Von Donnenburg fell on the ball. Then power -of a lusty pair of lungs,. that we \vere beaten, a fact patent to all. His voice sounded began enion's best work. Mom·p madt\ a 20 yard end-run, Dann bucked the line for 5 yards, \' familiar., as we have>, before this, heard the sa1ne and Harvey gained around l~i!ght end. Ur. ion lost remarks from the sarne source, though vdth less justification. The game was called at 3:3 2. C. Brown re- ceived the kick-off for Williams, returning about - .. five yars. A. Brown then ran fm~ty yatds. be;ng do1vned by McXab. After t\YO orthTee downs, C. Ero,,·n ,,·ent through guard for a touchdo11·n. Bixby kicked the goal. 6-0. \Villiams kicked off and Da\ris retuened the ball 15 yards. but enion lost the bc1ll ilTIITiediate!y by \·retched fumbling. Cnion was fm·ced nearly to the goal \\'hen the ball was recovered and Moon· })unted \Yell down the field. \\Villiams brought .. the ball back steadily by line-break:ng and finally H.obb ·was rushed through tackle for the second touchdown. Bixby again kicked the goal. 12-0. the ball and after two unsuecE'ssful down's, Wil- liams was forced to punt, Harn''Y catchil\1g thf:' ball and running it back \rell. Then bel-~an a \ ser:es o.f short end runs and 1 int: plunges, netting frorn three to ten yards, that \Yere taking the\ ball well along towards the oppo~ite goal, WilL 1 ~arns rushing substiutes in, in a n1in atten1pt to ch\eck the advance. Time 1\·as soon called, score-\Villian1s. 12; \C.nion 0. Line up: Union. \Yillbnus. Davi~ 01 0 0 o 01 0 01 01 0 01 0 I e o 01 01 0 I I 0 t 01 t 0 01 I 01 01 0 01 0 0 01 L. E. Von Dannen burg .............. (Johnson) L. T. Peck (Lent) ........................... Harter L. G. On the next kick-off, Bixby kicked the ball so . Xutt (Peck).. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Campbell that it struck Peck squarely in the chest. bound- c. ing back into the arms of a Williams rnan. l\!Ien·ill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . ' . . . . . . Eldridge -------------------------------------------------~~- Style is King in Shoedom these aays~ and thal is rto merry jest ettft?r. Cfhe careful dresser considers ewe[[ the looks of his shoes-tfte shape, finish, all the little points~ frotn fzeel to foe, which taken all together means ~~smartness.~~ These details are added fo the every best in quality of leather and rworkmanship to make our $3 .. 50 8\(ahoh Shoes. Where? Only at Fearey\ s Shoe Store 230 State St, Schenectady H On the ?:/Jrong side of the streer\

' ' ' , ; , 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS R. G. Dan:n ·( Cap·t ) ) 'I I 'I I I I I I I I I I I 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 • 1 1 1 1 Marshall R. T .. Wright ...................... (Blaisdell) Curtis R,. E. McNab I I· I •I I I• I I I I ,I I I I I I I• I •I I I I ,f I I I I I I I I Waters Q. B. Moore • t • • • • • • c • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••• C. Brown L. H. B. HarveY~ 1 I I I I ,1 I I •I' I I I I I 'I I I I •I I I I (Hill) A. :Brown <JR. H. B. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I (Bates) Robb F. B. Sc ore-Wiilliams, 12; Union, 0. Halves--15 min'Vutes. T'ouchdowns-C. Brown, Rohb, Goais -E ixby (2).. R.eferee-Easton of Yale. Umpire Tyne of T·rinity. Linesm.en-Dorticos of Eldred of Williams, and Shutter of Uni:on. Wiiliam'S, Odell of Uni:on. ' Igo8-rgog FOOTBALL ., . Play. No Score Game Thursday afternoon, after football practice the annual football tussle betwaen the sophomores and freshmen was held. During the whole after- noon the various members of the two teans had been gathering, in battle attire, so that by five o'clock the sophs ware represented by at least five men while the frosh had an over-abundance of material. After much coaxing, 1908 obtained five more men and a waited the game, short one man. The game was called with Capt. Dann as referee. 1909 kicked off, Colburn returning the ball thirty yards. For a few downs the sophs gained easily, but the freshmen obtained the ball on a fumble. The ball changed hands .several times near the center of the :field after which the freshmen got it and started for the 1.9 08 goal. They lacked 15 yards when time was called. The sophomores kicked off in the second half. As before, the play was somewhat in favor of 19 0 9, though no score resulted. The half was cut short by darkness. The line-up: ·~ .f-\ 'TIFPANY & C·O. Jewelers to College Men. * * * * Designs and estimates furnished for Frah:!rnity Pins, Class Rings, Class Cups Stationery, Etc. * * * * No order wiU be accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy of the name of the House. 1908 1909 Cabot . . . . . . . • .. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • Maughan L. E. Ki11g ....•.•. • • t • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • McCormick L. T. Bell .......•. . . . . . . . . ... -· . . . . . . . . . . . . Walton L. G. Vandegrift , ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moore c. Hildreth ...•. . . . ... ·• . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rankine. R. G. Weyrauch 0 • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••••••• Streibert R. T. - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ·• . Schoolcraft R. E. Jewell .....•. t ~ t e t -e C t 0 • • t .. I t I t • t t •i i i • Bayliss Q. Bell .......•........................... Welles L. H. B. Hafley .....• , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Potter R. H. B. Colburn . . . . . - .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mead F. B.

ick ore THE CONCORDIENSIS IS SCHEDULE. September 30-· Columbia 23, Union 0. October 7-·-Wil!liarms 12, Union 0. October 14-·-· ·Rtttgers at Schenectady. Octo b~;r 2 1-''I',rinity at Hartford. October 2 8-· -~\€sleyan at Schenectady. November 4-·-H:arnilton at Schenectady. November 7-!fY-Hddlebury at Schenectady. November 11-:::Rocbester at Rochester. N OVC)mber 8-Efo bart at :Schenectady. Novemb~r 25-N. Y. U. at New York. The First Football Gam.e in the United States Class Officers FoUowing are the class officers of the various classes with the exception of those of the fresh- men, which are not out for publication at the Th~ first foot:~@ all game played ~n the United :present time: States between colleges took plac·e in 1776, be- Seniors. tween Harva·rd an<il. Yale. A. G. Chapman ...................... President In 17 75 a garne had been played between thesC) E. M. Dann ..................... Vice President rival teams, unaer a set of rules compiled for the .r. G. Webb .......................... Secretary occasion, partly Rugby and partly Association. R. D. Sherman ....................... Treasurer Yale gave Ft,arv--ard the right to carry the ball in Juniors. the arms, and Ha..rvard alloWed Yale the privilege of batting the ball with the hands. ·The superior- ity of the rush was soon shown, Harvard scoring again and again. The game o:f 1776 was played strictly under Rugby rules. Ca..ptain Baker, of Yale had a hard time selecting a team.,, but after much practice eleven men were chosen. They :practiced in light canvas suits with no padding, and with a round rubber ball, as they were unable to procure a Rugby outside o:f England. This fact gave the Yale men less chance of vic- tory. Harvard played all around them from the first, and lJu.t for a run of bad luck would easily have bea.t~n them. Yale at last forced the G. R. Langley ....................... President E. E. Harvey .................... Vice President Sophomores . H. T. Hildreth ....................... Presid2nt L. s. Hoffman ................... Vice President A. L. La Roche ...................... Secretary F', H. Meeker ........................ Treasurer Senior Ball Committee-J. B. Peebles, chair- man; Cook and Im·ri~ . Junior Hop Committee-G. L. Richardson, chairman; Mcintosh, Osborne, Brennan, Curtiss, Wait, Gardiner, Harvey, Bishop, Cantwell. ·- __ ....,.. ----- WOOD BROS. ball to Harvar-d's twenty-five yard line and THE MEN'S OUTFITTERS. Thompson kiel\:ed the ball between Harvard's Have the Best and Latest Styles iu Goods for Men. goal posts, thus scoring a goal. Harvard made three touchdowns, but as a touchdown did not count without tne goal kick Harvard failed to score, missing d:i:fficult kicks each time. This was the first of a series of annual contests between the two institutions, which has continued to this day. -Targum. Manhattan D1•ess Shlrts. Adlers, Fownes and Perrins Gloves. Crawford Shoes. The \Boston De1~by\ and Tourist' Hats. Tbe Largest Line of Neckwear,

, I I; ; I I I :! '. I6 THE CONCO~DIENSIS Foreign Correspondence The Yale Summer School of Arts and Sciences had an attendance of three hundred men. * * * * Bucknell has this year opened a new course in Electrical Engineering. * * ~­ ... * President T. Clark Seelye, of S1n:ith College, has received an offer from. Fred Bennitt, a wealthy resident of Joliet, Ill., to rernove that wen-known institution from Xorthampton, Mass., to Joliet. M.!r. Bennitt agrees to secure an endowment of a million. dollars and a tract of eighty acres of land, and guarantees certain othe·r privileges. How- ever, no change in location will be made fm· some time at least. l1 An Arizona co-ed at the University of Nevada refused to sing \VhHe being hazed and was thrown into the lake with a rope around her waist three tin1.es. Then she pulled her gun and put the upperclassmen to flight. * * * :l: Columbia has this ye-ar inaugurated a School of Philanthropy, and Professor Edward T. Devine has been elected to the chair~ Clerk-( over the 'phone )-Mr. James, there's a lady wants to see you at the office. James-All\ right, ·hold her tHl I come.-Sphinx. Jerome K. Jerome We have received notice that Jerome K. JeronTe, the famous author-hum.orist is to appear at Red Men's Hall, Tuesday evening, Oct. 24. His lec- ture will consist of humorous recitals. Mr. Jero1ne's speaking is as am:using as his writing, which most of us have read. This is the first opportunity that we havt had of hearing Mr. Jerome and it will probably be taken advantage of by many of the fellows. The Swellest line of Ready-to-wear Clothes --Hats and Men's Furnishings.~.-- P .. B. KEARNEY 303-305 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Exclusive Sale of the W. S. Peck & Co., Clothing Made in Syracuse. Drawin·g M t , I a ertas and~ Surveying Instruments CLARK WI'l.,BE'Cii:. 413 STATE ST. MO·HAWK THEAT;RE SCHENEC1'ADV, N·, Y. WEBER & RusH, Props. & MgrR. Jos. WEBER, Res. l\1g.r A L w A y s A G 0 0 D s H 0 w H. R. Phone 168cJ Home Phone 168 \ALWAYS AND A GOOD SHOW.\ Entire Week Starting 16 Monday Matinee, 'Oct. · DRESDEN STATUETTES, The latest Lyric Novelty. YOUNG AMERICA QUINTETTE, Led by Miss Mattie Boorum. MARTINI & MAX MILIAN, \The World's Worst Wizards.\ FIELDS & WOLLEY, Our German Friends. PETE BAKER, Songs, Stories and Recitations. THE GIRL BEHIND THE DRUM. KINETOGRAPH. Engagement Extraorinary, 4-LA PERLAS-4 World's Greatest Casting Act. PRICES Matinees tO & 20 Cts·. Evenings 15 to 5'0 Cts. Watch For DELLA FOX M A T I N E E E v E R y D A y l \

N·, Y. M A T I N E E E v E R y D A y l \ ADVER1'ISEMENTS =========================================r===========-=-==-~-~==-~-~-=-=--===- -C~~========== Gfhis space reserved. for a. ]\. J{ ewm an, Sons ~ompan::; 5chmedad.~ Rooms Heated Throughout by Steam Refitted and Refurnished HOTEL VENDOME EDWIN CLUTE, Prop Cor. of State and Centre Sts. Schenectady, N. Y {[~c <Llare Stubio Lorraine Building Cor. State and Clinton. Speeial Prices to Students H. R,. Phone 360-F. 60 YEA.RS' EXP.ERIENCE TRA;b£ M.ARKS DESIGNS Copv,RIGHTc; &e. Anyone sending a sltetcb and descri.ption may .qulclrly ascertain our opinion free whether. an invention is probably patentable. Commum~a· tioRs strictly confidential. HANDBOOK on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing pate:nts~ Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive special notice, without charge, in the Scitntifit Jlm.tritan. A handsomely i1lustrated weekly-. IJargest cir· cu!lation of any scientific journal. 'l'erms, $~ a year; four months, $1. So1d by all newsdealers. 'MUNN & Co. 3618 roadway, ~New Yo:rk Branch Office, 625 F St., Washington, D. C. C. GAPCZY.NS·KI Also a. Fine Line <ff-- JEWELRY PICTURE FRAMING, STATIONERY SCHOOL BOOKS AND SUPPLIES H. R. Telephone 319-'R 14 CENTRAL ARCADE f. A. RICKARD &Co. SPORTING GOODS and ll\ztll Line of Dratving .InstTtt?nents. 253 State Street Schenectadj F. ROTHMYER Groceries, Provisions, Fruits, Etc. !04-106 STATE STREET Home Phone 169 H. R. Phone 16g-W. The Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSON. 'VALTON & HAGADORN Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Bldg. 3r3-315 State St. 5clipse ~aundrg 2r5 HULE.TT . ST. J. H. PRUNIER, Prop. \'ork called for ancl delivered Snow Flake Work Home Phone I020

:I ' 'l:'! ' . ) : ' IS ADVERTISEl\1ENTS. Electric Lishtins Apparatus. Electric Railway Apparatus. Electric :Power Ap~paratus. Electri~c Transmission of Power. Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. BOWLS MADE. IN FRANCE Pipes Repaired ohe-- COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 0 0 0 Q~.ic!k Service. Correct Editions Guaranteed Low :Prices. DeMEY, '07 South $ection, South CoUege Jtobsona/fdee SCHENECTADY AND SARATOGA OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER IN BEEF, PORK, VEAL, LAMB, HAMS, BACON All~kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY General Offices, 25 Broad Street, New York. Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N.Y. Brooks v~l orks, Dunkirk, ~. Y. Pittsburg Works, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond \Vorks, Richmond, Va. Cooke \Vorks, Paterson, N .!J. Rhode Island Works, Providence, R. I. Dickson Works, Scranton,!Pa. 1 Manchester Works, Manchester, N.H. Locomotive & Machine Co. Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICf:.

'07 • N. Y. iberty Co. a ADVERTISEMENTS 19 # ===================:::::;:======================:::::;;;;~ ... CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE:, New York City {[I-i:E cou~se. coverin~ ~our years begin~ dur~ng· the first week ·in October and continues until June. A prelim mary training tn natural scrence Is of great .advantage. All the classes are divided fn small sections for recitation, 'laboratory and dinical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passi n~g the requisite examinations. The successful completion of the first year in anyCoHege :ar University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining ~ satisfactory. standard is. sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission whkh'have lately been~ raised. The annual annoanGernen:t:. giylng full.particuJar.s wHl be mailed on appl,ica.tion. WM. M. PO'LK, M. D.. LL. D.. J)EAN •. Cornell University Medical CoUe'ge; \:;·.2.7th.-·and Z8t-h ,Str~ets &nd ;Jst Avenue, N.Y. City BOTH P·HONE.S. \ ' 121 Lark Street, Albany, N. Y. M1JSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY -· Furnis·ned Music.-· Union College-93, '94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99., '00,.'01, :02, '03, . ./}04;;'05. Cornell University-'94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, 'Q2, '03. Colgate University-'94.'95,'96,'97,,'98, '99,'00, '01;'02,1?03, ;~041 '05.: • Williams College- '95,./96, '97.,.~ '98,~ '99, ..'00, !01, ·.'02, '03, '04, '05. Hamil ton College- '95, ''96, ~'97, '98; '99: \'oo· ~'ot; '02, '03 . Governor's Mansion- '94:, '95, '96. '97, '98. '99, '00,'01, '02, '03, '04, '05. EDWIN POSSON'S TONSOHIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCvrler, Jay Street BATHS~ Razors Honed The best equipped shop in the city. All modern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor toR. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationary, Picture Framing, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steam.ship .Agency 3:SJ State Street Schenectady .. N~· Y. 'VHOLESALE . AND .... RETAlL BOTH PHONES 242 Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck Coal and Mason Supplies Office JO 6 Union St. Sclumectady, N.\ f. CHAS. LIMMBR, .. Florist .• LORRAIN.E BLOCK STATE STREET Both Phones · crhe,~Gazette· is easily the · foremost dally in Schenectady. -PRINTERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904 S chenectadv Railway Company:- ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTR-IC HEATING ELECTRIC P 0 W E R ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telep4.on~ 421> .. ' General ~Office 420 State.St. Scheneotad-y, N.Y. --; • t ! Whether for ' Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After~Six Forn1alities, THE ·vARSITY MAN W H;O WEARS ..STEEFEL\ QU ALl\JY CLOTHES HAS THE SATISFACTION· OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS, BETTEll..IF HE TRIED. STEEFEL BROTHERS \' ~~-~~~-80-82 State Street Albany, N. Y. I I, I --------------- -----~---- --· PATRONIZE OUR· ADVERTISERS· -----------------------------------------------------------------~

a ! ' ' '1 ' • ' ' I ,. ,. ' I I• ;\! ; j~, ' : There is a certain air and style abodt our Clothing that you do not get anywhere els~. 'There is a liberality about it and a lineaess of fiqlsh that is only secured by the greatest of care. The lit is perfect, the style up to date and the fabrics the lnost approved • . , Our Hats and Furnishings also ex~ress the most approved styles. BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY A:LBANY, N. Y . We make the most Up-to-date and Best ' Fitting Clothes ............ . We have the Finest and Largest Assort- ment of Fabrics to Select From 'In~ Schenectady ·~ We We carry the Best Line of Gents' Furnishings. . . . . . . . ...... . give the Best Value for SOc, $1.00, $1.50 Neckwear of any house J STULL BROS Tailors and Haberdashers Near Clinton 467 State St.

I, \• I • • • ' ,· • ; t ' ' f • • ' • ' ' ' ' ' ' ~ I, ' j I i' '' ' '' + + + + THE + + + + CON.CORDIENSIS VOLUME XXIX ,NUMBER 4 OCTOBER 21, 1905 · PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY ... College Lihrarl'~ THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNl., COLLEG.E ~ .L.

i :I ' I '' ' , I ' ' 2 ·-·-· i: Union University .. :! ANDREW V. V. RAYMOND, D. D., LL. D., PRESIIDENT ... UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 1. Cmuse Leading to the Degree of A. B. 2. Cou.rE.P Leading to the Degree of B . .S. s. COlUSe Leading to the Degree of Ph. n. ·1:. General Course Leading to the Degree of :B. E. ;:;, Sanitary Co1.use Leading to the Deg'ree of B. ID. tt. Electrical Course Leading to theDegree of BJD. This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in plac€ of son1e of the General Engineering Studies. TJ1is covrse is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Co1npany, under the immediat€ supervision of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7. Gradl&\lte Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one year offered to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6. For cataJogues or for special information~ ad- dress , BENJAMIN H.\ RIPTON, Dean of the College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. AlbanJr JUedicaJ CoHege.-Instruction by Lec- tures, Recitation, Clinics, Laboratory Work, a.nd Practical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent_ · Catalogues and circulars containing full infor- n1.ation, sent on Rpplication to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. · Albany La·w SchooL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building \Vho11y devoted. to its use. Tho course leading to the degree Df LL. B., is two years, each year is divided in to two semesters. '· Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuit: on fee, $100. For catalogue or other information, address ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, John J\. Hughes, Secretary Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College lnnrd- ing. For catalogue and infonnation address, THEODORE J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany. X. Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity 'House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. RECENTLY ENLARGED WITH 25,000 NEW WORDS AND :PHRASES New Gazetteer of the World New Biographical Diction.ary ·Edited by W. T. H.d.RRIS, Ph.D., LL.~., United States Commissioner of EducatiOn. 2.3 s,o Qu.arto Pages. 50 00 I1lus1rations. FREE, ''Dictionary ·wrinkles.\ Also ilh1strated pamphlets. G. C!J C. MERRIAM. CO. Publishers, Springfield, Mass. GET THE. BEST LYON'S DRUG STORE Agency for I-Iuyler's Bon Bons ancl Choeolates. Eastinan Ii:.odaks, Fihns and all Photo Supplies. Pr·esci~iptions Aceu.ra.tely and neasonably Filkd. 335 STATE ST., Cor. Clinton, SCHENE.c•:rADY -------~- ---------- COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. MAimHS OF CAPS, GO\VNS AND HOODS to the American ColJeges an\i Universi- ties from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class Contracts a Specialt;r. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tailor 2 37 State St. Schenectady, N. Y.

DY Y. ADVERTISEl\1E.N1'S 3 'CHAS. H.OLT2MANN & SON 259 State Street Hawes Hats are the ideal colleg.e :Men;s Hats. In buying them we had the men of rnion College in mind. Viv.,. e have shape~'\ that will please you college meR. They are $3;(!)0, with our usual colle.ge discount. THE TEN EYCK. cA.J. tMcGEE ALBANY, N. Y. SucceRRor to GERARDUS SMITH Positively F:ir-e-Proof. Eu.ro:nean Plan. Most attracHv·e Hotel in New York State. Near State Capitol and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music during t·he evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every ro0m. H. J. ROCii.WELL & SON KEELER'S EUR'OPEAN Hotel and Restaurant Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. Gentlen'1€n Only 250 Roo1ns Ladies' Restaurant Attached SPECIAL NE'V RATI-ISii.ELLAR Bo\vling Alley an(l Billiiard Rooms, also Twenty-five Private D,in•ing Rao:ms Wm. H. Keeler, PrOJJ. Annex, 507 & 509 Broadway .·.THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, N. Y. The Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in the City. Headquarters for sons and friends of Old Union, Tourists and Commercial Travelers. De.aler in ·COAL AND WOOD 'fe[e})hone 321 140 South Centre St. Schenectady, N. Y. ----------------------- --------------- H. S. BARNEY CO. H!ea~dq uarters for Ment s Furnishings H. R. Phone 175-M. Home Phone 192 --GATES.-- COLLEGE BAGGAGE EXPRESS Age-Jilts 01tts~tlc of Station Of.fice I2§ WaiJ Street For T-Iats, Caps, Furs, '.I:I'Utlli:s, Bags, Suit Cases, Etc., go to M- MANN'.S Successor to L. T. Clute Hcadquat•t.ers 'for Stetson anel Knox Jiats 227 STATE ST. -~- ------~-- ------- YATES' BOAT HOUSE ~ The Largest and. Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Partiie:S only, in connection with house. 29 Fr0nt Street Schcnectacly, :X. Y.

. I 'I ,. 4 EDMOND ELIABLE ESTAURANT Wed:dings ~Banquets Private Parties THE GOOD SERVED . 1n a High Class Manner \Ohe LEVI MOORE Studio\ MAKERS OF ARTISTIC PHOTiOGRAPHS Emory Irving Wen dell, Proprietor .ftrthur J. liJhite Successor to :uacLean \The College Photographer\ Liberal Discount to College l\Ien. \V e try to use yon right . I 1\facLcan Negatives on File. mL I 492 Horne / .:none/ 47m H. R. J GO TO-- FOR FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL, GYM, GOLF, AND HIGH. CUT HUNTING SHOES. ALSO HEAVY · SOLE OXFORDS FOR FALL AND WINTER. 457 STATE STREET J\!en's and Boys' Shoe Store ------------------------------~~-- I ·A. L. OWENSI I . . . CATERER... I I UTICA, N. Y. I 15 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y. VancLurler <Opera !)ouse C. II. EE:NEDICT TELEPIJO:NE 1\fanagei' No. 335 MR. JOHN McCLOSKEY MERCHANT TAILOR Invites your attention to his new line of Fall Woole11.s for the season of 1905. His line will be found replete with Novelties and absolutely new, ·which 1narks it one of unusual merit. No old st0ck. K obby Clothes for College Men . The College Tailor. 126 Wall Street

y ly THE CoNcORDIENSIS VOL. )(LYIX. UlVIOJ\T COLLEGE, ,Q,C!'. 21, 1905. COLLEGE ·SPIRIT Rare Display m Local Daily Lately there arose sorne trouble bet·ween t11e coil ege office and the football n1anagement. This was s:ezed upon by the college reporter for one of the local dailies as good copy for a stirring story. In his haste, he overstepped the confinr.>~ of prudence as to his assertions and this particH- larly at the expense of the college. He devoted some space in his first chapter, to history, telling in well-turned phrases, of the l'f'- cen t peace between the college of:fice and the st,u ·- dents. In the second chapter, he explains the immediate causes of the trouble, also quoting the college rule regarding the ·wearing of cleated shoes in Silliman Hall. The third act follows: \Some time after the game Captain Dann wa..s informed that a fine of $5 per head would be levied on all who had entered the building wear- ing the tabooed cleats and that the college office \vas busy preparing an exhaustive list of the of- fenders. There were some rapid calculations and several of the students were heard to remark tllat it would be cheaper to buy a new .floor. The mat- ter of the fine was brought to the attention of the players and the management and naturally the managern:ent took the responsibility. ?\ oth ing was done officially, but the management allowed it to creep out that any tendency on the part of the college office to persist in the imposition of the fine would mean a disbanding of the team and a few minutes later the captain was informed that the fine had been repealed, but that the athletic \vearing of cleated shoes In Silliman Hall. It is also tl'ue that the team did use Sillin~an Hall last Saturday, giving R,utgers the use of the gymna- sium. Fro1n that point, the above article is such a blencli ng of fact and fiction that it is of little value. The fine was not even. levied. As far as the Athletic Association is concerned, the matter has not been brought of.fi:cially before it. Therefore!, it i8 difficult to find the writer's authority for say- ing tl1at the a:ssociation \Voulcl pay the fines. The management brands as absolutely false and without foundation, the statement that the team \Vould disband if the charge were not with- dra\vn. ~o such childish idea was entertained for an instant. A Decade of University Growth In a recent issue of the Boston Transcript, some observations, very pertinent to college men, are m.ad·e by Merritt Bu tier respecting the marvelous growth of our American Universities during the last ten years. Mr. Butler says: \In no decade previous· to the period from 18 9 5 to 1905 have! the larger educational institutions of this country leaped forward \Vith such vigor, gained so heavily in attendance and efficiency or demonstrated so clearly by the shifting popu- larity of studies, the striking changes that are taking place in the intellectual and industrial worlds -of America.\ \A study of the statistics of thirty universities, including the historic insti- tutions of the East, the great State universities of the West, and a number of typical Southern institutions, develop some noteworthy facts.\ association would be expected to pay all dam- The fig1tres of attendance at these institutions in ages.\ the last completed college year, 19 04-5 in com-, The facts of the case may be stated briefly. It parison with those of 1894-5, are 62,588 against is true that a notice was posted regarding the 37,928. The universities are growing much faster

: 'I I i ' i 'I'I-IE CO~CORDIENSIS than the population. Frorn 18§0-19-00 the popu- f.onn as to preserve this historic 9ld spot. On laHon of the United Stat~s increased less than motion, Presi·dent Chapman appo~nte.d MiUer, t\\renty-two per cent. The attendance at these thirty institutions increased sixty-five per cent. \There is nothing East or West in any\\~ise con1- parable V\,..ith the trem:endous growth of the Uni- Waldron and· Casler as a committee to inVEsti- gate the n1.atter, as to its cost and best means @f accomplishment. versity of Illinois, a 1n;ore than quintupling in ten Christian As'sociation. years. Of the Eastern universities Columbia, SUNDAY VESPERS: :Rev. H. '\1T. 1.\faier :wiU \vith 108 per cent. gain; Cornell, with 91 per cent sp.eal{ on \'frue Eleinent.s of Success.\ and Xe\\~ York, \\rith 134 per cent., have grown with ·western-lik~ rapidity, but the 28 per cent. increase of Harvard, 32 per cent. of Yale, 18 per cent. of Pennsylvania and 2 4 per cent of Prince- ton pull down the average. Yale and PennsY'l- vania have both fallen in possession, the f0rmer from_ fifth to ninth, and the latter from fourth to twelfth.\ Then, again, Mr. Butler points out that the trend of American youth is definitely to\vard prac- tical studies. The increase in the nu1nber of stu- dents in the several courses fo rthe ten years con- sidered was: Arts and sciences 56 per cent.; en- gineering, 162 per cent.; medicine, 35 per cent. and la ·w, 4 4 per cent. Lastly, the number of women students is grow- ing n1uch faster than the number of men. I go6 Memorial Sometimes it is a custom for a class about to d~part from college to leave some memorial; one by which the class will l:>e remembered and which \\rill be of some value and use to the college. It has even been the custom here in Union in past times. We are not aware how often it has been TUESDAY E:V:ENING: Subject '\Vill be \Pi:'ofi- table Service.\-W. T. lUclntosh, '07, leader. The Christian Association's field of work is now fully planned and all its branches are in action.. In som.e branch there is a plaee for each one o.f u.s and when approached on the subject at least g:ve it personal attention. This week the field of Mission Study is especial- ly before us. Monday night MsClenthen.'s ciass oll Home Eroblems meets. Here is a chance to learn of conditions that we as coHege men and Chris- tians w:ll have in our power to improve. X one of us may ever go to China or Ind:a but by jo:n- in.g this class let us see \Vhere our lives rnay count towards improving conditions at home. Every man can and should be something of a mission- ary. Vesper Service. Those who attended Sunday's Vesper Service heard an unusual and interesLng talk by Rev. Jos. Rodgers, D. D., of Manilla on \Mission Work in the Philippines.\ Dr. Rodgers spoke in a force- ful, concise \Yay on the three phases of life in the Philippine Islands, that of our government of- done ·within the last few years. At a meeting ficials and army officers, of the soldiers, and of last Monday morning of the Senior class it \Vas the natives themselves, presenting to his listeners moved and carried ·with enthusiasm. that 1906 a birdseye view of the field for mission work. leave some suitable memorial with the college, In part Dr. Rodgers said: \The question of the thus reviving a pleasant custmn. Philippine Islands now, is not one of whether we Lately the fam.ous old spring in the garden has are or are not wronging the natives in taking pos- not beei1 kept up as it might have been. It has session of their terr~tory but one of v\.rl1ether th8 been filling up with sticks and dead leaves and nat:ves are going to gain confidence in the Ameri- its old wooden cover, can·ed with the numerals of can people. If this is done, peace and prosperity so many illustrious classes, has been going to \Yill result, if not done-failure.'' Dr. Rodge Is pieces. In vie\v of this, it ,,·as suggested that it would be fitting to have the memorial of such spoke of the life of discharged soldiers and riff. raff of the army who, seized with a kind of trop- ,. ,.

t. On MHler, sti- @f :wiU snow o.f least ecial- oll learn X one jo:n- very on- rvice Jos. in the of- of the we pos- th8 geis riff. ; 1 ! ! -; ! ' 1 '• ~ i rrHE CO~CORDIE~SIS 7 icalennui have given up hope of better lives and settling down to lives of vice, drag down in moral tone the habits of the natives wtth '\vhon1 they con1,e 1:nto cor1.tact. He contrasted with thenil the work of many soldiers, who after discharge frorn the army enter into bus:ness or, often in the case of ofJ.cers, take up a profes2ion and by Hpright respecta~le lives such as are led by the average An:erican at home have an influence upor1 the na- tives which is going to be the strongest factor in the·r Ameri:canization. \The Phil:pino is un- usually susecptable to impressions\ said Dr. Rodg- ers, \and it is on account of this character:stic that there cornes home to us the many div<2,rse opinions as to h's rEal nature. Bow in hin1 kind- ness or rn.ich:ef and we \Yill reap the same.\ For this reasolil there are 1nany cases in business ard in the professions, '\Vhere individual Americans by their just dEalings -vv:th the n::ttives have con1e to wield a11 enormous influence over them and. such 1nen the government is not slow to place in posi- tions of authority. The government in this case, especially partial to the co Uege trained rnan makes three year con- tracts with young men at salaries of fro1n n'ne hundred to one thousand dollars a year, in in- struction, engineering, administration and medical departments and though they cannot teach any one branch of Christianity under these con tracts, their opportunities for Christ:aniz:ng and civiliz- ing influence are unli1nited. \The Filipino~ ha YC some bad traits,\ said Dr. Rodgers in closing. \They are gamblers, liars and licentious l:\·ers naturally; but easi:y trained, anJ those who do positive 1vork make much progress. Teach a por::itivc relig·ion of manhaod and 1nake the>n1 for- get their meanness. The work of the Christian Church is an absolute necess:ty for the success of the Islands. It :s net nece;:sa;_·y to have Christ'an ministers go there to work for it but upright lnE'n in all professions.'' vVith the accmnmodations for 200 more seats, making 1.400 in all. the Memorial Hall at Harvard becomes on.e of the biggest restaurants in the country. The Junior Way A shady nook---· A babbling bro-ok- A ge·ntle fanning breeze. Horne bits of blue, With .sunshine, too, A-peeping through true leaves. A Junim· rare- A maiden fair- A whisper very sweet. A hasty arm, vVhat is the harm? Encircling waist Eo neat. A little blush- A little hush- A little word intense. Another blush- l~· n.other hush- Eternity's suspense! A little sigh- A drooping eye- Quick heaving of the breast. Then upward glance- A lover:s trance- A \yes\ you know the re!\lt. -Ex. NEWS BUREAU Successor to Press Club L:\nion has followed the exarnple of many of the larger collE'ges in the establishment of a so-called \news'' on \publicity\ bureau. The object of the- bureau is to supply Ii('WS of the co liE: ge to ne\YS- papers in the surrounding· c:Ces. ~uch nc>ws w:ll prove of great intc1·t:>st to Union's numProu~­ alurnni. as we~l as serving to bring the college be- fore the notice of rnen in preparatory schools. Last year the ~~an1e purpose was attempted by a reorganization of the Press Club, but the ven- ture did not prove a gteat success. The new or- ganization \Vill have its hraclquarters at the library and \Vill do the work in a more syste1natic manner than the old Press Club did. The news bureau should prove a success and if it does \Vill be a posit:ve benefit to the college.

:! ., , . .. , l ;·:1 ... '\ ,., .i ; i• : I i I i I I 'f 8 ROOSEVE'LT ON FOO.TBALL Meets ·College Coaches. At the White House recently, President Roose- velt met the leading athletic representatives ()f Harvard, Princeton and Yale, at luncheon. \W1l.en the whole range of college athletics was thorough- ly gone over, special empt:lasis, ho·wever, heing placed upon the discussion of football as :it is no1v played. The President's object in calli:ag these m.en together was to consider whether or not some revision can be made of the pres.ent rules govern- ing the sport, whereby it can be relieved of so~ne of its brutal features and still retain its good ath- letic characteristics. During the conference, an agree1nent w:as drawn up and signed by the repi·e- sentatives present, \'\Vhich cans fm.~ the strict2st interpretation of aU rules relating to roughness and foul play. If this agreement is lived up to, it will benefit the game immensely, as th.c present rules are comprehensive. The foHo\ving are quoted as President Roose- velt's views on the subj.cct: \I believe heartily in sport. I believe in out- door games and I do not mind in the least that they are rough games or that those who take part in them are occasionally injured. I have no sym- pathy whatever \.V'ith the over-wrought sentimen- tality which would keep a young man in cotton wool and r have a hearty contem.pt fo·r hi·m if he cou;1ts a broken arm or collar bone as of serious consequence when balanced against the chance of showing that he possesses hardihood, physical rnan neg:le.cts the spiri't of the rule whHe striving to keep within th..e letter.\ College Briefs Chapel meeting. \To be or not to be.\ * * * * At the lecture of Rev. Putnam Cady, '86, on \The Jordan Valley and the Dead Sea Region\ at the First Reformed Church on Tuesday evening, the few students w'ho attended received a treat well worth the time .spent from studies. * * * :!< Our songsters have written several football verses set to popular tunes, which appear on the chapel blackboard at in ter1nittent intervals. The Glee Club is learning them. and we hope to have some less dismal singing at our next gam·e. * * * * N\. B.-First Junior Hop will occur ~ovember third. * * * * Last Saturday Prof. Stoller guided his geologi- cal class on the first expedition of the season to Hoffmans. * * * * The lack of interest in the interclass football shows a decided failing somewhere. It might be well for the classes to try and rouse u:p a little spirit over the series. * * * * A few of the mercury arc lights are to be seen on the campus again. They have been missed ability and courage. But when these injuries are since the opening of college as they add materially inflicted by others, either wantonly or of set de- sign, we are confronted by the question, not of damage to one man's body, but of damage to the other man's character. \It is a bad thing for any college man to grow to regard sport as the serious business of life. It is a bad thing to permit sensationalism. and hys- teria to shape the development of our sports. And finally it is a 1nuch worse thing to permit college sports to become in any shape or any way tainted by professionalism or by so much as the slightest suspicion of moneymaking; and this is especially true if the professionalism is furtive; if the boy or to the beauty of the grounds at night. * * * * The present color of the idol seems to be a neutral color. It has been wearing the same coat of paint since the Williams game. * * * * The chemical laboratories are being re-wired for a more extensive and better system of electric lighting. :!: * * * In last week's account of Prof. Landreth's paper before the State Sanitary officers, \Portable\ should read \Potable\ in the title, \Water Re-

on at ning, treat the The have logi- n to t be ittle ally tric per T'HE CONCORDIENSIS 9 sources of This State Available For Potable Water Supplies.\ * * * * Anderson, '03, will be back next week and will devote his energies to coaching the scrub. Alumni '52.-John Townsend, aged seventy-three, for twenty years rector of Christ Church, Middietow11, Conn., died June 13, 1905. He was bon1. in Al- bany in 18 3 3. Mr. Towr1send was a member of the Sigma Phi fraternity and the Adelphic Society. He was a graduate of the first class in Berkeley Divinity School after it \vas separated from Trinity College. He received the degree of M. A. from Trinity College in 1884. Mr. Townsend was mar- ried to Georgiana P. D2v·ereux in 1861. * * * * '52.-Daniel M. Van A uken lives at Milford, Pa. * * * * '56.-North American Review for September has an article _on \Our Failure in Porto Rico\ by the late Gen. Roy Stone. * * * * '68.-Robert Mayh2W has a biographical ac- count of George Westinghouse in the American Illustrated Magazine for Sept. * * * * '77 .-Franklin H. Giddings has an article on \The Legal Aspects of Compulsory Education\ in the American Education for Sept. * * * * '96.-James Herring is a civil engine·er at Wal- ton, N. Y. * * * * '99.-Havilah Beardsley of Joplin, M~o., called on college friends Tuesday of this week. * * * * '00.-Willard D. Brown of Middletown, N. J., has accepted a call to the pastorate of the Re- formed Church of Passaic ~. J., and will move his family to that city this n1.onth. * * * * b.igh schooil at Binghamton, where he is teaching Latin ·and :Science. * * * * '00.-Archibald L. Anderson of St. L0uis, :Mo., is a visitor on the hill. * * * * '66.-In the October number of \The Business World,'' Charles E . .Sprague, president of the Un- ion Dime Savings Institution of New Yorl<, begins his new series of \Problems and Studies in the Accountancy of Investment,\ which wiH later be published in book form. For the past year CoL Sprague has been president of the savings bank section of the Ain'erican Bankers Association, and would probably have been re-elected but for the one term. claus~e. Sigma Phi On Saturday afternoon last Mrs. vVilliam Gil- mour gave a very delightful tea at the Sigma Phi Place. Half an hour before the guests arrived for the tea the various Sig families of the town assem;blcd in the dining roo1n to witness the un- veiling and presentation of a stained giass window given by Mrs. Gilmour in memory of her late hus- band, Mr. William. G. Gilmour. The vvindow, which is of a m.ost artistic design, was executed by Tiffany & Co., of New York. A large number of town people attended the tea which was held from four to six. Mrs. John Gil- mour and Mrs. George W. Featherstonhaugh poured. Parson's orchestra furnished the music for the occasion. Foreign Correspondence Following the introduction of the t1:1.torial sys- tem at Princeton, several chang·es have been made in tha faculty. Princeton now has a faculty of 13 8 professors and instructors. * * * * Proe Evan P. Lewis, president of Phi Beta Kappa at the University of California, has an- nounced that hereafter members will be elected into the California chapter during their junior. '00.-Herman B. Jones, formerly principal at year and not in their senior year, as is now the Alexandria Bay, is now first vice-principal of the custom. (/

' '•· IO 'The Concordiensis. i • m 1 ; - o:a c;u 51-••w Qelll•;>;,--=n -· u1 Lz'tera1J' a!ld ;}\(.:U'S IYNkb} 'Publz'shed b_1• THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNiVERSITY. Enteredattlre Postoffice at Sc·henectad~r, X. Y .. as Second Cln~s 2\Iatter BOARD OF EDI fORS. !i D. F. lJ1\1.RIE, 'o6, - F. L. .M It L ER , 'o6, F. W. NEWTON, '07, W. KING, 'o6, - P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, J. R. BROWN , Jr. , 'o 3 , S. C. FIERO, 'o-l, Editor-in-Chief Business Maaager Asst. Business Manager Literary Editor Athletic Editor News Editor Alumni Editor Law Department ASSOCIATE EDITORS. E. C. BRADBEEl~, 'o7, 'vV. T. MCINTOSH, 'o7, L. S. PA!RSONS,'o7, A. H. WHITE, 'o7, N. V. V. FRANCHOT zd, 'o7. REPORTORIAL STAFF. B. A. COLLINS, 'o8, A. V. V. RAYMOND, Jr. 'o8, L. S. HOFFMAN, 'o8, E. VANOLINDA, 'o8, M.S. WATSO:.J, 'o8, M. H. WEYPAUCH, 'o8. H. C. POWELL, 'o8 COLLEGE DlRECTORY. Fi tb lt j E. M. Dann, Cartain; 00 .J ·· l G. A. V eJder, Manager. B.Aseha!l{L. N. Rider, Capt('in; J. L. Moon, Manager. Trach{ C. N. Waldron. Capt:1in; S J. Raymond, Manager. Glee Club { B. W. Reed, Leader; . G. C. Newbury, Manager. !Jtstrummtal Club -,' GB. VCV. NReedb. LeadMer; . . ew ury, anager. C d . . {D. F. Imrie, Ed.itor; oncor zenszs F L M. I . . ll er, Manager. G t ~E. E. Haevey, Editor, arJZe i B. N. Mooers, Manager. y M c A j C. N. Waldron, President; · · · · I A. S. Knight, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year ,:in Advance 10 cents Address all communications-:to THE CONCORDIENSlS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. -·--- --- --· --------- ----~--- - -- In another colun1n of this nun1ber, atten- tion is called to an article vvhich appeared in one of the loca[ papers recently. Had a like article appeared [n the sa111e paper, hut under other conditions, it -vvoulcl have creat- ed little con1n1ent. Such things are cus- totnary and 111 ust be endured. But the ob- jectionable article was written by one who is a student and \vho, fron1 respect, at least, {or his coUege, 1night be expected to state accurately and fairly the college ne\vs. Ex- ception is taken in two ways to his article. Its first half is con1posed of a succession of caustic rernarks on the college 1nanagen1en t \vhich cannot but hurt the institution -vvhen read by persons who, through ignorance of existing affairs, are unable to enter into the spirit of the writing. The latter- of the ar- ticle, the story itself, is so inaccurate as to show that the writer took little or no pains to get at the botton1 of the 111a tter but has- tily con1posed the narrative fron1 n1ere run1ors, which are always plen~iful here. In one respect, the writer is not to be blatned. Hitherto no restraint has been put upon this sort of writing and, as a result~ son1e of the local papers ha,Te overflo\ved, fron1 titne to tin1e, with flJ.n1boyant accot'n ts of college doings. A 1111.rk ·already being- ·set in this respect, both by hin1self and others, .it was n1ost decidedly up to the re- porter to keep up his reputation. -l\Joreo,rer, in certain of his vvritings, directed as this one was, he has had, and still has, the en- couragen1ent of son1e of the students. It has ben suggested that the Press Club control cases of this kind, if such an organi- zation exists. There is an inactive Press Club, but in the past it has been unable to exercise control over the local papers. It ne,Ter had n1ore than an advisory power, -vv hich is only supported by sentin1ent. Its chief use was to send out ne\vs. It repre- sented but a part of the student body. A n1atter of this kind 11111st be taken up by the whole college ,not in a blust~ring but in a

=::::::=::==: tten- (., \,.... I a , hut reat- cus- ob- who east, Ex- of of the ar- s to a1ns be put ts . re- en- lub ess to It Its re- A 1''HE CONCORDIEKSIS II . ---~---- --- -~ \ reasonable n1anner. \V e caHnot threaten, Some in1pottant c11anges in the pharmacy for we have no power to carry ou't our course have been made which, now,ever, ·will not own threats. But if every n1an in college afiect the Senior class this year. The Jun:·ors \vere to show his distaste for such artkles, \ViH be required to cany the study of pharrnaceu- we have little doubt that the distates of re::t- tical arithmetic, and physics fnUrely through the son would prevent this one n1an. fron1- fol- term instead -of for ten weeks only. This is a lowing a decidedly unpopular course. much needed change, for the amount of ground At any rate we appeal to hin1, in the nan1~ to be covered in those subJects is far too great to of his college spirit, , to alter his present permit of an exhaustive study to be accomplished course. It shows poor spirit in one who, by in ten weeks. publishing inaccuracies about his college, rrhe Jun:or class is regis:ter,ed as follo-vy.s: \vill deliberately injure her in order to satis- fy his personal spite against one n1an. And such articles do injure Union, for they give a decidedly erroneous in1pression of our life here. JVIuch trouble and inconvenience has been given to the football tean1 by the tnanner in which the n1en watching practice crowd around the teatn. The work of both the tc an1 and coach is han1pered in this way . X aturally the latter cannot say all he would wish to the teatn when he is surrounded by a group of inquisitive listeners, who son1e- tin1es are not all college n1en. Let us see if we cannot aiel the tean1 in this respect. Let the upper-classrnen set the exan1ple by re:maining on the sidelines and they will be followed by the under- classmen. All can then see equally well. Pharma.cy Notes I Some diversion from: the usually quiet routine of college life was offered last Monday evening R. F. Avery. L. c. Eaker. N. L. Eaker. vv. H. Canfield. L. E. Carey. c. G. Clifford. B. F. Donahue. J. H. Dro,mey. H. 0. Failing. W. B. Foody. F. H. Franchois. P. S. Haines. J. L. Harrington. K.athryn Hick€Y Joseph Houscweller. J. C. Komeczny. Ida Moore . W. l\11. Pratt. W. N. Purple. H. H. Reller. Fred Salvione. M. A. Stephens. S. C. 'Taylor. G. M. Tinney. when the Seniors held their election. In the after- -n-r vv. A. Townsend. noon two tickets had been nominated by caucuses E. J. van Tassell. in the Pharmaceutical Laboratory. After a thor~ ough canvass fo,r the various men the following ticket was elected: President, Carroll Strong; Fall Tennis Tournament. Vice President, Darren Van Housan; Second Vice One of the most noticeable features of the fall Pres,ident, W. C. Barton; Secretary, Leslie Horton; tennis tournament is the rapidity with which it Treasurer, Joseph Mitchell; Historian, J. Leslie has been played. Providing the good weather Everleth; Valedictorian, Joseph Beavan; Alter- continues it will be finished this week. Som~:t nate, J. Christopher; Corresponding Secretary, good material has been developed in the Fresh- Wayne Rice. man class and the old men are in good form.

' \ ' ·~ 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS Union vs. Trinity Cornell vs. W. U. ·of Penn. Practice, during the past ·w-eek, has been hard in anticipation of to-day's gam.e with Trinity at Hartford. It is realized tha!t vast impn1>vement over last \\veek's form is needed to even. beat Trinity, to say nothing of it'U1Hiling U:ta' a score similar to last year's. One of the chief faults of the team, its fumbling, has appeared less frequently as the praetice has proceeded. Quarterback also, is not causing so much worry as before. McXab has show·111 great- ly in1proved form and is getting n1uch more speed out of the team. Starbuck .is running elose to him. In the line, there has been som-e change. Von Dannenburg has been m0ved back to guard, the pos.ition he filled so brilUantly last year and will thus brace the center of the line. · Merr·Hl has been shifted :from guard to tackle and is doing well in his new position. The scrimmage work ·was hard throughout the ·week. The varsity's defence was tested repeat- edly, Wednesday afternoon. Coach Cr<Hlkhite gave the ball to the scrub on the varsity 2-yard line and the former pushed it over three times, showing that the line is still not what it sh()uld be. The gam·e will be played at 3:30 toda.y. The officials will be Glass and Hale, both of Yale. The team. left at 1: 3 3 P. M. yE)sterday, arriving in Hartford about 7 o'clock in the evening. The line-up: Davis, L. E. Merrill, L. T. Lent, L. G. Peck, C. Von Dannenburg, R. G. Dann, R. T. Wright, R. E. Armstrong, L. H. B. Moore, R. H. B. Shutler (Mulrooney), F. B. McNab, Q. B. Substitutes-Starbuck, Knight, Harvey, DeM:ey. Football Games 11oday Union vs. Trinity. Yale vs. Penn-State. Syracuse vs. Colgate. Columbia vs. Amherst Lehigh vs. F. and M. Howard, '0 9 vs~ An dover. Pennsylvania vs. Brown. Navy vs. N. Catroiliina. WiUiams vs. Dartmouth. Carlisle vs. D·iek.inson. Princeton vs. Lafayette. Georgetown vs. Swarthmore. Wesleyan vs. N. Y. U. AI bright vs. M:luhlentmrg. W. J. vs. Alleg-heny. Bogart vs. Niagara. Holy Cross vs. Worcester Poly. Hamilton vs. St. Lawrence. St. Johns vs. V. N. I. Maryland Agri. vs. Wes. Md. Haverford vs. Wesinus. Virginia vs. Bucknell. Trinity's Record Trinity, 11, Rutgers, 0. Trinity, 0; N. Y. U. 0. Union II-Rutgers o In a game devo-id of any sensational playing, Union scored her first victory last Saturday by defeating Rutgers. vVith an over amount of con- fidence, we w.::nt i11to the game expecting to have things all our own w1ay and on the contrary dis- covered that in order to avoid a repetition of the \.Villiams game we must put forth every ounce of effort available. 'The team did not show up as well as w·ere the ex::pectations and the numerous fum:bles prove that an extra amount of work is needed to place the team on a standard with the exhibition it gave during last season. The play- ing, as a whole, was ragged. As before, during this season, the line seemed to lack cohesion and fight. The half-backs, full-back and ends played brilliantly, as usual, and deserved much better support from the rest of the team. The usual and time honored 'brace was displayed in. the last half, and this time it produced results. All in all,

·ing, by ~on- Lave dis- the ~ of as ous ~ is the ay- ·ing tnd ved :ter ual ast all, THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 a much different style of footbaill must be sh.o\\Yn to beat ·Trinity. 15 yards. After a gain of 10 yards they were forced to punt and Shutler secured the baU mak- The day was a pleasant one and at 3:30 about ing a 2·0-yard run. Repeated line bucking and , 1,000 spectators had assembled. Our team was end runs carri 1 ed: the ball to Rutgers 1 (} yard ma,rk first to appear on the fie~.d accompanied by the and there Mo0re was sent around right en.d for a entire squad, a fact worthy of m.cntion. Eefore touch-down. On the punt-out ShuU'er caught the the visiting team appeared it was nearly S: 4 5 so kick and heeled it, Moore kicking an easy goal. that little time was lost before the play began Score-6-0. after they arrived upon the field. Moore kicked to Rutgers and Rice returned it Union won the toss and chose to defend th·e 15 yards. On the first down Brogger went around south goal. Rutgers kicked off to Union's 15 end for 5 yar·ds but lost it when Von Dannenburg yard line and Moore caught the ball returning it caught him and by sheer strength carried him about 15 yards. A gain. of 20 yards was then back for the same distance. Rutgers was again made by Dann around the left end and then Rut- forced to punt. Here Union. played a steady gers secured the ball on the inevitable fumbJle. game, and by continued advances Harvey went However they could not make their distance and through for a, touch-down. Union failed at the were forced to punt. Here Union fumbled again goal and score was 11-0. and Rutgers tried once more to pierce our line but to no avail. From. this time on the ball changed hands a number of times as a result of more or less punting and fumbling. Twice in succession from within the 15 yard line, did Tharp, of Rutgers try for a field goal. Each time it ·was blocked, Union obtaining it on the five yard line on the last trial. Then some improvement ·was shown, but it was too late, for tim.e \Vas called ·with the ball in the center of the field, in our pos- session. Score-0-0. SECOND HALF. Union. kicked off to Rutgers and Tharp returned Union again kicked off and soon obtained the ball on a fumble. The advance was rapid towards Rutgers' goaiJ. and on their 15 yard line, with a few seconds to play, M,oore tried a place kick. He got the ball off well but Rutgers \\V'as .off-side and lost 5 yards. Time was called before the teams could line up for a second kick. Final score-11-0. Following is the line-up: UNION. RU'TGERS. Davis ........................ Green (Captain) L. E. Style is King in Shoedom these days~ and that is no merry jest either. Cfhe careful dresser considers welt the looks of his shoes-the shape~ finish~ all tfze little points~ from heel to toe~ cwhlch taken all together means ~~smartness.,.~~ These deta.l[s are added to the every best in quality of leather and rworkmansnip to make our $3.50 tl{abob Shoes, Where? On[y a.t Fearey' s Shoe Store 230 State St, Schenecta.cfy \'On the ?:Prong side of the street\'

' i 'i . I I 14 'I'HE CONC-Ol<DIENSIS Von Dannen burg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bragger L. T. Lent 1 • •t t t • • t t t e 1 • t t • •• • t 1 • 1 t t t • • t • • t • 1 • Black L. G. P·ec·k ........... . . . . . . ~ . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . Loblein c. MerrHl ...................... Cusach, Den:1.arest R. G. Dann (Capt.) ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Steinke R. T. \Vrigh t ..........•......... W. McXeil, l\1urray R. EJ. I-Iarvey {Annstrong~ ............ Stafford, Fisher L. H. B. Moor~ ......................... R:ce, Edwards R. H. B. ShutlPr ...................... Allen, J. MacNeil F. B. l\1cXab, Starbuck. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tharp Q. B. Referee-\Veeks, Syracuse. Umpire-Van Tine, Trinity. Time of halves-2 0 1ninutes. Touch- downs-Moore. Harvey. Goal kicked-Moore. Score-'Cnion, 11; Rutgers, 0. Schedule September 30-Colurnbia 23, Union 0. October 7-\Villia ms 12, Union 0. Octob<:r 14-Rutgers 0, Union 11. October 21-Trinity at Hartford. October 2 8-vVesleyan at Schenectady. Xov<-'rnber 4-Harni lton at Schenectady. Xovember 7 X O\'einber 11-Rochester at Rochester. Xovc1nber 18-Hobart at Schenectady. Xovember 25-~. Y. U. at ~ew York. Middlebury Cancels . A fe\v days ago, the management received -vvord from Middlebury College, ·cancelling the Election Day ga1ne. Xo other explanation ·was given c-x- cept that a game was desired with Vennont and that that day had been selected. If such is the case, it is hardly conduct becoming a college of any standing. Manag-er Vedder is trying to arrange for some - . & ~co. : II I Jewelers to College Men. * * Designs and estimates furnished for Fraternity Pins, Class Rings, Class ~Cups Stationery, Etc. No order wiH be accepted for ex- ecution at a price not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy of the na1ne of the House. UNION SQUA.RE, NEW YORK ~:espondence Invited. -~-=c.=....:.-_·~ other easy game on that date coming, as it does, in the middle of the \Veek. bet·ween the Hamilton and Rochester games. The Spring Hid in a cool sequester'd spot Sometime remem.hered and oft forgot, Covered by marks of a by-gone day; Classes and namrs no\:>{ far a \Vay; Choked ·with the leaves of many a fall Rotted, abandoned, neglected all; Such is our fathers' pride, \The Spring.\ Surely it is a pitiful thing, That, right beside our bounding brook Shut in its fto\very, foliaged nook, Its sweet, pure ess.ence \Vastes a way; Its carved cover waits decay. Take heart, 0 font of life and health! Old Union's sons will bring thee wealth. And stone-encircl,ed thou shall be; :Xew classes, entering, shall see, When thou art purg~d of leaves and sticks, This carved symbol, 19 06. By '06.

. . . I ton Track Meet The track team has been \vork<ing hard lately, Capt. Waldron having held practice eveTy after- noon at 4 o'clock. There has bEen a large nun'l- ber of men out for p:ra-cti:ce every day. Paul Vla:it is showing up well in the low hurdtes; Flo\Yers is back at his old distance, the two-mile; while Par- sons ai!:'ld Raymond are again. fightin;g it out in the half mile. Capt Waldron can be depended upon to take points in the quarter, t\vo twenty, hundred, and. broad jump and Eren in the high jump if -called upon. Capt. vValdron says again that ·we need high jumpers and hurdlers. Every man that has one whit of athletic ability should co1ne out and help in these places and 1nake the team the strongest in years. 'This afternoon the fan track meet will be held on the oval. Every man, '\Yho can, should come out in a suit and help his class \Yin the greatest number of points. Those 1\Tho can not do any track work should be on hand 1vith their sup- port and sp:rit. The events will be: 100 yard dash. 2 2 0 yard dash. 440 yard run. 880 yard run. One mile run. 120 low hurdles. 120 high hurdles. Shot put. Hammer throw. Pole Vault. Broad jump. High jump. Foreign Correspondence President Angell of Michigan began his thirty- fifth y.ear as the head of that institution this fall. '* * * * Dean Cooley of the Michigan Engineering Col- lege favors a six-year course for engineers. * * * * Young \Teddy\ Roosevelt, Jr., has entered Har- vard as a freshman. He is follo'\ving in the foot- steps of his father, but he has some mighty large tracks to fill. ( .~~~.~.~®~~~-~~.~@~~~~.@~@~~~~~~:~~~~~~ y~~ : THIS SPACE IS ! ! ~ .· . ~ ~ R~. ES·· ER· · VE: . D· · F; -·O·R· i ~ .• i •. . . . '- • ' -~· tfi,. ~ '\~~ -~ S It· ~~~ . . d ~ ~ . I a • . . . a = .. au s ~ . ~ ·~ 503 s··TAT. 'E: S'T.... L . Bl k ~ ~ · · · · · .· . . · .· . . · ·orrame · oc _ e ~~~~~~~~~~~!lil~~~f;-~~ Purdue University has a $40,000 appropriation for a civil engineering building, \Vhich is available on and after Xovemher, 1905. * * * :~ Dr. Edward C. Kirk, dean of the Dental De- partment of Penn, and a noted writer and lec- turer on dentistry, has been decorated by the FrEnch governm,ent as an Officer d' Acadernie for his contributions to the science of dentistry. * * * * It is estimated that ten tim·es as m.any children have been taught in Porto Rico in the last six years as in the 400 years of Spanish m:srule. Education in Porto R:co under Spanish ruJe was controlled by the priests. So far as common peo- ple ·were concerned there was practically no schooling. *' * * * Of 1,800 students applying for admission this year at Cornell 800 were refused, and to enter, President Schurman told the student body, did not insure staying. He advised the freshman to get a hard chair, go into the garret and c'grind.\ THE MEN'S OUTFI-TTERS. Have the Best and Latest Styles iu Goods for Men. 1\fanha ttan Dress Sbi1•ts. Adlers, Fo\vnes and Perrins Gloves. Crawford Shoes. . The \Bost(}n Derby\ and Tourist' Hats. The Largest Line of Neck,veati, 265 STATE ST.

I6 THE CONCORDIENSIS It is rumored that Dr. McCracken, formerly a star athlete at Penn, will go to China as a 1nedical missionary. * * * * Drawing Materials Colby Colege has a horn rush in which the and ....... ,. ... . Fresh1nen blow a horn and then try to retain pos'- session of it for an allotted tim.e, while the Sopho- mores try to capture it. * * * * Colun1bia University, at her coininencement, gave the degree of D·octor of La·ws to Baron Ko- mura and M. Sergius Witte, the plenipotentiari.es of Japan and Russia to the recent peace confer- ence. * * * * Wisconsin has invited a number of the large Western universities to a conference which has for its purpose the found:ng of \Vestern basket- ball league. * * * * Part of the endowment funds of Dartmouth College is invested in a \voodland grant in New Hampshire. Experiments are now being made to increase the forest by gro1ving pines from seed. * * * * The following is a list of the captains of some of the eastern colleges and the positions which they play: Lafayette-Newbury, tackle; P.rinceton-Coo- ney, tackle; Pennsylvania-Reynolds, half-back; Lehigh-Herman, end; Yale-Shevlin, end; Har- vard-Hurley, half-back; Swarthm:ore-Crowell, quarter-back; Cornell-Costello, tackle; Colunl- bia-Thorpe~ ta.c.kle; West Point-Gillespie, er:.d; Annapolis-Howard, end; Brown-Russ, end; Dartmouth-M)ain, end; Amherst-Hubbard, half- back; Bucknell-Cooper, guard; Williams-Bixby, tackle; . Dickinson-Davis, tackle; Syracuse- Tuckee, tackle; Colgate-Runkle, full-back. The Swellest line of Ready-to-wear Cloth2s --Hats and Men's Furnishings.-- P~ B. KEA,RNEY 203-305 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Exclusive Sale of the W. S. Peck & Co., Clothing'------Made in Syracuse. Surveying Instruments CLARK WITBECK 413 State St. SCHENECTADY, N. V. \VEBER & RvsH, Props. & Mgrs. ,Jos. \VEBER, Res. Mgr A L w A y s A G 0 0 D s H 0 w H. R. Phone 168-J Hou1e Phone 16S \AL·WAYS AND A GOOD SHOW.\ Entire Week Starting 2 7· Monday Matinee, Oct. , SOUVEKIR DAY, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27. MRS. STUART ROBSON In the Comedy Playlette, \The Saving cf Mrs. Shaw.\ MeRPHY & WILLARD Presenting t1Pir lnt:st Comedy Creation, \The Phrenologist.\ TROJA, \Types of Society in Song.\ HARPER, DESMOND & BAILEY, SingciS, Dance1s and Comedians. ALL & PEYSER, Ac:robatic Comiques. BCSKIRK & RICH, Som.ething N ?W in l\fusical Novelties. KINETOGRAPH. ------- Special Feature, MARVELOUS FRANK & LITTLE BOB, CJmedy Gymnasts. ------------ ------------ AMATEL'R NIGHT, THURSDAY, OCT. 26. PRICES ::Vfatinees 10 & 2'() Cts. Evenings 15 to 5'0 Cts. Next Week DELLA FOX IM A T I N E E E v E R y D A y

ADVER'I'ISEMENTS ~ .. _ tt:c:es.s. If you can afford a journey to Xew York and a $100 suit, you are lucky, but we a1'e not. If you ,,~.ant the effect of a Xe\v York $100 suit '\vitnout its cost, have a look at the special lines of .clot'hi·ng we carry for college m.::n. Hand sewed, \hand shaped. And not at all like ·what has al\,·ays been called \ready made\ clothing .. Hand shap:ng and hand sewing, means not only that \difference\ of price \Vhich is so im- portant at the beginning. but means clothes that hold their shape and never look \pulled down\ at the shoulders. Sa.cli.:. suit pr;cEs begin at $10.00 and end at $35.04). Lorraine Euilding Cor. State and Clintcn Spec:al Prices to Student::; H. R. Phone 360-F. Rooms Heated Throughout by Steam Re.fitted and Refurnished HOTEL VENDOME EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. 60 YEA:RS' EXP 1 E R liEN C E. TRADE !M.ARKS :DESIGNS COPYRIGHTS &c. Anyone seH<.Ung a sketch and descriptionrna.y quickly ascertain our opinion. free whether an invention is probably patentable. Communica- tions strictly confidential. HANDBOOK on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents. Pa;tents .take~ through Mu.~n & Co. recei·ve spectal notwe, Without charge, m the S~i~ntifit Jlmtri:eaa. A handsomely mustrated weekly. J,aJ1gest cir- culation of any scientific journal. 'l'erms, $3 a year; four months, $1. Sold by all newsdealers. MUNN & C0. 3616 roadway, New York Branch Office, 625 F St., Washington, D. C. C. GAPCZYNS:Kl ~\lso :a Fine Line of-- JE\YELRY PICTURE FRA.JII:s-G, STA.TIONERY SCIIOOL BOOJ{S AND SUPPLIES H. R. Telephone 319-R 14 CEN':rrtAL ARC.l\.OE f. A. RICKARD f3 Co. SPORTI::\G GOODS and Fnll Line of Drawing Instru1nents. 253 State Street Schenectady F. ROTHMYER Groceries, Provisions, Fruits, Etc. ro4-ro6 STATE STREET Home PhoJ:le r 6g H. R. Phone I6g-W. The Schenectady Clothillg Co. GIBSON, WALTON & HAGADORN I-Ieadquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Bldg. 313-315 State St. 5clipse J:,aundry 215 HU.LETT ST. J. I-I. PRUNIER, Prop. \Vork called for ancl delivered Cor. of State and Centre Sts. Schenectady, N. Y. Sno\v Flake \York IIo1ne Phone 1020

IS ADVERTISEMENTS. Electric Lighting Apparatus. Electric RaH\Yay .... -\ppara tus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electric Transntission of Power. ~xm Sales oillces in aU the large cities of the United States. General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. BOWLS MADE.IN F,RAN.GE Pi pes Repa:i r~d The:-- COLLEGE BO:OKSTORE 00(i) Quick Service. Correct Editions Guaranteed Lotv Pl.'ices. CASLER, '06 De]}IJDY, '07 South. SectioD, South College ~obsona.lldee SCHENE·CTADY AND SARATOGA OSCAR ]. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: § A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UXION STREET SCHENECTADY, N. Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER l); BEEF, PORn:, VEAL, L ... -\1\IB, HA.;.\18, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE C·OMP ANY Schenectady Works, Schenectady, N. Y. Brooks Works, Dunkirk, N. Y. Pittsburg Works, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmond, Va. General Offices, 2 5 Broad Street, New York. Cooke Wo.rks, Paterson,!N. J. · Rhode I Rland W o,rk~. . Providence, R. 1. · DiC'kRo:u '\V\' orks, · Scranton. Pa. Ma.nchester \I\\\ orks, ::\1anchester,.N. H. Locomotive & Machine Co. :Montreal, Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE.

ADVERTISEMENTS :C'ORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL COLLEGE, New York City '([HE cou~se. coverin~ ~our years begin:; dur~ng the first week in October and continues until June. A preliminary trammg m natural sCience Is of great advantage. AU the classes are divided in small sections for recitation, laboratory and clinical bedside instruction. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the requisite examinations. The successful completion of the first year in .anyCoUege or University recognized by the ~egents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory standard is suffi.cent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. · The amilual announcement giving full particulars will be mailed on application. WM. M. POLK, M. D., LL. D., DEAN. 19 Cornell University Medical College, 27th and 28th Streets and 1st Avenue, N.Y. City BOTH PHONES 127 Lark Str·eet, Albany, N. Y. MUSIC FOR. WEDDINGS A SPECIALTY --Furnished I\- I usic-:- Fnion College-93, '94, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00. '01, '02, '03, '04, '05. Cornell Univrrsity-'94, '95. '96, '97, '98, '99. '00', '01, '02, '03. Colgati UniYf'r~ity-'94.'95.'96.'97,'98, '99.'00, '01, '02, '03, '04, '05. \\~ illiam~ Collpg·r~- '95, '96, '97. '98, '99, '00, '01, '02, '03, '04, '05. Hamilton Colleg-e-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99. '00, '01, '02, '03. Omrprnor's J.\[al:J.sion-'94, '95,'96, '97, '98. '99, '00,'01, '02, '03, '04, '05. EDWIN P08SON'8 TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCtu•ler, Jay Street BATHS Razors Honed The best equipped shop in the city. A llmodern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor to R. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationery, Picture F'raming, Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steantship Agency 333 State Street Schenectady, X. Y. \VHOLESALE and .. RETAIL Both Phones 242 L. Vl. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & DevenpecJ:;: Coal and Mason Supplies Office 306 Union St. CHAS~ LIMMER •• Florist •• I...~ORRAINE BLOCii: Both PhoiH\~ STATE STH.EET '!:he Gazette is easily the foremost daily in Schenectady. -PRIN'l'ERs' INR, Aug. 30, 1904 Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC I-IE A 1\'IN G ELECTRIC POWER ELECTRIC EXP·RESS Telephone 42 5 General Office Ltzo State St. Schenectady, N. Y. \ ~--·-----m-----•-------------------·---------·---~ \i\/hether for Street Wear ; For Daylight Ceremonials; or for After-Six Forrnalities, TI-lE 'VARSITY JUAN V\TIIO \VEARS II \STEEFEL\QUALITY CLOTHES JIAS THF SATISFACTION OF ICL\JOWING IIF COUI.JDN'T DR.ESS BETTER IF HE TitlED STEEFEL BROTHERS 78-80-82 State St1•eet . Albany, N. Y. --------------- 21 ......... -------------------- PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS i ~ ·,i

There is a certain air and style about our Clothing that you do not get anywhere else. There is a liberality about it and a fineness of finish that is onily secured by the greatest of care. The fit is perfect, the style up to date and the fabrics the most approved. Our Hats and Furnishings also express the most approved styles. BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N. Y. We make the most Up-to-date and Best Fitting Clothes . . . . . . . . . . . . . We have the Finest and Largest Assort- ment of Fabrics to Select From ' In~ We We ' carry the Best Line of Gents' Schenectady ~ Furnishings . . . . . . . . ...... . give the Best Value for SOc, $1.00, $1.50 Neckwear of any house J STULL BROS Tailors and Haberdashers • Near Clinton 467 State St. ,

+ + + + THE + + + + · CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXIX NUMBER 5 ' , ' •' t ~ , ..,. 1 ° \ , ' • 1 • ,.. I 1 • • • 0 I 1 1 1 J. 1 't ,_ - 0 ,:~ 0 : - ' 1 ' 1\ ' • • , I ~ r;-,; . . . . . - · 1~.]' JJoUe~~ · Li'orary · ·· .. · t2.... -, - . .' .. :'·;~· ' . . . .. ~· ·. ~· ~: .· • OCTOBER 28, 1905 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY ' ~ 1 ' \ 1 - • .' If~' • ' • ' ( • ~ • 1 ' f\' . I ' , ' I : . ~ , \ ~ ~ \• \ • \ ' tn. \ ~ : ,, , , \ ' . i .

' ' I : i ' I I , i i I . I , I I'' j i I , I; I I I, ' ! i I j i' I: I i. I, I, I ; I I, 2 ADVERTISEMENTS Union University. ANDREW V. V. HAYMOND, D. D., LL. 0., PRESIDENT. UNION COLLEGE, SCHENEC·T ADY, N; Y. 1. Course Leading to the Degree of A, B. 2. Co1u·s~ Leading to the Degree of B. S. 3. Course Leading to the Degree of Pll. B. ·1. General Course Leading to the Degree of B. E. ;j. Sanitary Cou1•se Leading to the Degree of B. E .. tt. ElectricaiCourse Leading to theDegree of B.E. This differs from course 4 in substituting special work in Electricity and its applications, in Place of some of thil General Engineering Studies.. This course is offered in co-operation with the Edison General Electric Company, under the immediate supervi·slon of Prof. C. P. Steinmetz. 7. Graduate Course in Engineering Leading to the Degree of C. E.-A course of one .Year offered to graduates of courses 4, 5 or 6. For catalogues. Qr for special information, ad- dress BENJAMIN H. RIPTON, Dean of the College; · Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE. Albany Medical CoUege.-rnstruction by Lec- tures, Recitation, Clinics, Laboratory Work, and Practical Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages tJXcellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full infor- n1ation, sent on application to WILLIS G. J:'UCKER, •.1\1:. D., Registrar, . . . Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW. Albany La\v School.-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupjes a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the. degree of LL. B., is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses.-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $100. For catalogue or othar information, address ALBANY LAW SCH:OOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary Albany, N. Y. ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY. Exercises held in Albany Medical College :Buna- ing. For ca,talogue and information address, THEODOR.E J. BRADLEY, Ph. G., Secretary, Albany, N. Y. LOUIS M. CLUTE FINE GROCERIES Fraternity House Supplying a Specialty Corner Jackson Place and East Liberty. RECENTLY ENLARGED ] WITH 25,0(}0 NEW WORDS ,AND PHRASES New Gaz:e1teer of ,the World New Biographical DiC?tionary Edited by\W. T. HA.RR.IS, Ph.D., LL.J?., United States <JommissioneP of EducatiOn. 2380 Quarto P131'ges. · 5.00() Illustrations. FREE, \Dictionary- Wrinkles.\ Also illustrated pamphlets. G. C!J C. MERRIAM CO. Publishers,,· Spririgfield. Mass. GE.T THE .6.~ .T LYON'S DRUG STORE Agency for HUJ'le3r'~ Bon Eons and Chocolates. / Eastutan Kodah:s~ Fibns and all Photo Supplies. Prescriptions Accurately and Reasonably Filled. 335 STATE ST., <Jor. Clint<>n, SCHENECTADY COTRELL & LEONARD, ALBANY, N. Y. M.AICERS OF <JAFS, GOWNS AND HOODS -to the American Colleges and Universi- ties from the .Atlantic to the Pacific. Class Contracts a Specialty. WILSON DAVIS Merchant Tail or 237 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. I•

/ ADVERTISEMENTS 3 Q ------------------------------------~--~. 'CHAS. HOLTZMANN & SON 259 State Street Hawes Hats are the ideal coUege l\fen's Hats. In buying then1 we had the men of ,e nion College in lll.ilil:d. \Ve have shapef3 that will please you college men. They are $3.@0·, with our nsualcoHege <liscount. THE TE~\ EYCK cA.J. f.McGEE ALBA.N\I , ~. Y. Successor to GERARD US SMITH Positive'ly Fire-Proof. Eur~nean Plan_ Most attractive Hotel in ~ew York State. Near State Capitol and other places of interest. Restaurant and Grill Special Features. Orchestra Music durililg the evening dinner. Long Distance Telephone in every room. JI. J. ROCI{WELL & SON KEELER'S EUROPEAN Hotel an~cl Restaurant Broadway a..nd Maiden Lane ALBA_NY, N. Y. Gentlenren Only 250 Rooms Ladies' Rest:aut•an.t Attached SPECIAL NE\r RATHSKELLAR Bowling Alley and Billiard RooJns, also Twenty _,fi. ve Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. J{eeler, Prop. Annex, 507 & 509 Broadway .·.THE.·. EDISON HOTEL SCHENECTADY, ::\'\. Y. The Largest and Best Appointed Hotel in the City. D,ealer in COAL AND W·OOD Telephone 321 r 40 South Centre St. Schenectady, N. Y. H. S. BARNEY CO. Headquarters for Ment s Furnishings H. R. Phone 175-M. Home Phone 19 2 --GATES-- COLLEGE BAGGAGE EXPRESS Agents Outshle of Station Office I25 Wall Street For Jla.ts, Caps, Furs, Trunks, Bags, Suit Cases, Etc., go to M- MANN'S Successor to L. T. Clute lleadquarters for Stetson an(l Ii.nox :flats 227 STATE ST. Y A TESt BOAT HOUSE Tha Largest and Best Equipped in the State. Excellent Dancing- Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties only, in connection with Headquarters for so11s and friends of Old Union, house. Tourists and Commercial Travelers. 29 Front Street Scllenectady, N.Y.

.! 'I :t ~ i •! . I ,, '! \':.\ D \' E l \. '1' 1 S I~ ~ 1 E ~ ~1' S ED_I\;IOND ELI ABLE ESTAURANT W:ed~dings Ba:nquets Private Parties SERVED . 1-fl a. THE GOOD PLACE High Class Manner firthur J. lJJhite MR. JOHN McCLOSKEY· Successor to Jfaci..~Pa:n. 1VIERCHANT TAILOR \The College Photographer\ Liberal Discount to College ~I en. \ Y e try to use yon right. Invites your attention to his new line of Fall \Voolens for the season of 1905. His line will te found replete with Xovelties aEd absolutely MacLean .Negatives on File. P ,_ 1 492 Home none 1 47mH. R. -------- -~ ---- now, which n1arks it one of unusual merit. ol c1 stock. Xobby Clothes for College Men . The College Tailor. 126 Wall Street ~0 ----------------- -- -------------------- 240-242-244 STATE ST. College Fellows Wear Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes I Sell Them I want to make the acquaintance of every fellow on the hill. I want to sell everyone his CLOTHING, his HAT and CAP, his SHIRTS, his UNDERWEAR, his SWEATER, and every little thing that he needs to wear. I am selling the kind of things to wear that college fellows like and I am selling them at the right ki11d of prices. \' • I j l . ' i '

y '' I j l ' . ' I ' j THE. CoNCORDIENsis VOL . .._¥.){!X. UNIOiV COLLEGE, OCi. 28, I905. No.5 $200,000. Generous Sum for Old Union At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of Union College held in New York Wednesday at the of- fices of Mr. George H. .Seward, it was decided without hesitation to accept the offer of Mr. An- drew Carnegie to present the College with $10 0,- 000 for a general engineering building provided the alumni could secure another $100,000, ·which the Board of Trustees intend to hold as an en- dowment fund. With such a fund the Trustees will be enabled materially to raise the standard of the college. Dr. Raymond, Hon. N. V. V. Franchot, chairman of the finance com:tnittee, Mr. George F. Seward and Treasurer Frank Bailey were chosen to secure the needed amount. A meeting of this com1nittee will be held in Ne\v York during the ensuing week to decide upon its future activities. Further details will then be given out. Instruction to Freshmen The Tiger, published at Colorado college, has a chapter of instructions to the freshmen. The following is the most important part thereof: Wherefore, 0 freshman, give ear unto the la'\Y, neither depart therefrom, lest peradvrnture the hosts of the Philistines, which is to say the sophomores, shall come upon thee like a thief in the night and smite thee hip and thigh, and de- feat thee ·with great slaughter, for the sophs are a brave and warlike people. Be meek and lowly of heart, slow to butt in, and plenteous of horse sense, neither be of a for- ward tongue and inclined to much babbling, lest one of the wise and holy men of Colorado col- lege, which is to say a senior, shall send his 1nighty man o:E valor, which is to say a soph, upon thee for to chastise thee, and he shall smite thee upon the fifth rib, for the soph loveth not the gentle freshman, and \Vhereas thy father chastised thee with whips, the mighty soph will \Vhal~e thee long and lustily with a board, for he deligh teth not in freshmen. A bit for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a long board for the freshman's back. Gee thee out to all football games, neither neglect to lend that blatant raucous voice to cheer the Tigers; hik~ not at all to the canons ·with a young maiden for she will weary of thy childish prattle. Come, therefore to the games, and let thy horn be exalted like the horn of a unicorn, lest the heart of the chief rooter waxeth wroth and he take counsel with a lusty soph for to do thee hurt. Be not wise in th'ne own conceit, neither seek to bluff the wily Prof., for it doth appear that he is dead on to thy babbling and \Vill quickly give thee a zero. Study to show thyself a good and faithful grind, neither hold good marks of slight import,. for the dean knoweth the ways of the wise guy, but the \Wuffer and babbler shall flunk. Pharmacy Notes A 1n.eet:ng of the senior class in pharmacy was called M\onday evening, at '\Vhich it was decided that the school would not take part in the Car- nival parade this year, the consensus of opinion being that Albany pavements, as a whole, ar3 somewhat too rough for the tender feet of the pharmacy students. Doubtless when the CarniVal committee is in- formed of our decision it will take prompt meas- ures to have the streets carpeted and strewn '\vith flowers, but our decision, like the \Law of the Medes and Persians,\ is unalterable.

6 'I'HE c:o~CORDIENSIS Alumni ~59.-· H. l\1ely·ille Hanna has retired fron1 busi- ness and is living at 60 9 Prospect St., Cleveland, 0.-Burr Scherm.erhorn is a pl1ysician at Hones- dale, Pa. * :!: * * •6t.-David Yost is practicing la:w at Fonda. * * * * '6·2.-. -George L. Srn'i th is pastor of the Presby- terian church at Cedarville, :::'\. J. \80.-'Talcott Camp Van Santvoord, son of Cor- nelius Van Santvoord, and nephew of the late Com1nodorC' Van Santvoord, died at his home at 112 West 12th St., Xew York City, Oct. 21, 1905. Mr. Van Santvoord was born in New York City, Feb. 7, 18fu8, and left coJ'lege in his sophomore year in 1878, to enter the Lincoln National Bank of X ew York, where he ·was assistant cashier for twenty-five years. He was also secretary of the Hudson River Day Line and a me.m ber of the Union League and N'ew York Ath~etic Club. M:r. '64:.-. -James L. Se\Yard is a farm·er at La \\Tence~ Van Santvoord was a member of the Kappa ville, Ill., and Morr.;s C. Tuth.Dl at Washington- Alpha fraternity. ville, ~. Y. * * * * * * * * '6.7 .-Ralph K. Paige has retired and may be addressed at Painesville, 0. * * * * '67 .-James Duane Featherstonhaugh di€d at his horne at 132 Mohawk E:L, Cohoes, l'\. Y., Oct. 21, 1905, after a long illness. He was born at the British legation, vVashington, D. C., Jan. 2 4, 184 5, his father James D. Featherstonhaugh, be- ing an attache of the legation. He spent several '86.-T. vVarren Allen is asistant civil engineer of the U. S. War Dept., at Cebu, Cebu, P. I. * * * * '93.-F·rank W. Allen is a civil engineer and may be addressed at 865 8th Ave., 1'\. Y. City. * * * * '94.-Fritz \.V. Upde Graff is an electrical en- gineer at Prolongacione del Ayuntamiento 814, Mexico City, Mex. * * * * years in England and France. •.vhen quite young '98.-Malcolm G. Thomas has been elected to and in 1855 returned to America with his :parents the principalship of the Coxsackie schools. and settled in Duanesburg. His preparatory education was received at the vValnut Hill School, at Geneva, X. Y ., after \Yhich he entered Un;on College and graduated in 1867. He was a mem- ber of the Sigma Phi and Phi B€ta I\::appa frater- nities. He entered Albany Medical College in 1867, but later \Vent to the College of Physicians and .Surgeons fro1n \Vhich he graduated in 18 70. Dr. Featherstonhaugh located in Cohoes and has resided there ever since. He \Vas married to Miss Caroline M. Johnston, Sept. 22, 18 91. Mrs. Featherstonhaugh died on April 4, 1904. Dr. Feath€rstonhaugh ·was chairman of the Public Improvem·ent Commission for several years. He was an independent in politics and a member of the Episcopal church. His father, .James D. Featherstonhaugh, Sr., was a member of the class of 183 4. He is survived by two brothers, Thomas Featherstonhaugh, '71, of Washington, D. C., and George W. Featherstonhaugh, '71, of Schenec- tady. * * * * .. '02.-.-· Gilbert S. Woolworth, \Yho is studying law in Georgetown University, \vas a visitor on the hill this week. Literary Societies The tw·o debating societies have started their year's work by assigning subjects and sides for the first debates. The Adelphic debate will be held vVednesday evening, on the subject, \Re- solved, That the separation bet\.veen Norway and Sweden is a benefit to both countrie·s. '' Affirma- tive, Classen and Webb; negative, Chapman and Mooers. The Philomathean subject is, \Resolved That the present policy of the United States with re- gard to Chinese exclusion is to the best interests of the United States.'' Affirmative, Sylvester, Hagar and Van Zandt; negative, McClellan, Bishop and Tiffany.

or- at 05. :r. pa n- to ir d 'THE CON'C:QRDIENSIS 7 Westwafod Chapel Meeting Through the silenc~ of the even Meeting caUed to order by President Chapman. \Vhen the world is from me falling, Corne the voices of the Westward From the shrouded distance calling, \Hith:er hither to thy home!'' And rpy soul of souls makes answer, '\fhither thither will I come!\ 0 ye voices of the Westward I have felt your inspiration, Heard your clarion cry compeUing, Solemn, eager invitation, Your imperious commands; And I cannot choose but follow Toward your secret-laden lands. Though I know that on the even Of the farthest morro\v's morrow Capt. Dann spoke on the Trinity game, praising work of every man on th~ team, and praising the ex·cellent treatment of the team at the hands of the Trinity management. Manager Vedder an- nounced that because of the larg~ guarantee de- manded by Wesleyan,. the bleachers would again be reserved except the one set which has been presented for the use of the student body. Capt. '\Valdron spoke on the track-meet which had been postponed from Saturday till Monday because of bad weather. He also showed the necessity of winning the spring me~ with Trinity. Dann announced a meeting of the\ Varsity Club. Reed spoke on the importance of cheering and singing at the Hamilton and Wesleyan games, and called for volunteers for a fife and drum corps to take the place of the impromptu \band\ of Sat- You will summon still to West\vard urday n:ght. He also announced the rehearsals w:th all tones of joy and sorrow, of the Mus:ca·l Clubs and the time for election of Crying \Hith~r to thy home! assistant manager of this organization. \Here are love and life and labor; Harvey announced new ideas in regard to the \Westward ever!\ Lo, I come. 1907 \Garnet.'' -N. F. B. in Queen's Univ. Journal. Haight called for a meeting of whist enthus- iasts. Christian Association \\;'ESPER SE.RVICE: Rev. Jolln c. l(nox of Games Today Luzerne will speak on \'\Vhat Christ Has Done.\ Yale vs. West Point. TUESDAY EVENING: \The First G1•eat Coin- Syracuse vs. Lehigh. mandn'lent.''-Nutt, '06, Leader. Amherst vs. Vermont. The speaker Sunday, Mr. Knox, is a graduate Harvard '09 vs. Worcester. of the college in the class of 1890. In coming Penn. vs. Carlysle. ~rom Luzerne to speak to us, Mr. I{nox is show- Annapolis vs. Swarthmore. i11g true colleg.c spirit and we hope a large num- Williams vs. R. P. I. ber will comoe out to vvelcome him. Lafaye,tte vs. Lebanon Val. Learning that the college library is to discon- Penn. State vs. Villa Nova. tinue their subscripti-on to Everybodys Magazine, Georgeto\vn vs. Washington and Jefferson. it has been added to the list on file in our reading Dickinson vs. West. Univ . room. Beginning next month it will be found Trinity vs. Hamilton. in Silliman Hall. Columbia vs. Princeton. Some of us either come from farms or are in- Princeton, '09 vs. N. Y. Military A. terested in them. To such the Breeders Gazette, Holy Cross vs. Springfield T. S. a'lso on file in the reading room, will be of inter- St. Johns vs. Richmond. est. The agriculturist is of great importance to Gallandet vs. Western 1\.fd. the country and it is well that we ke8p in touch Haverford vs. Johns Hopkins. with him. Colgate vs. Rochester. \•·\J ~. :.~ir ~ . \! : ~; ·1 ' ., ' 1

I' jil I ,, •' 8 'l'HE CONCORDIENSIS College Briefs Junior Hot> XoY. 3! * * * * \By\ had an idea in chapel meeting, Monday. * * * * At a business meeting of the M;usical Clubs, Monday evening, Parsons, '07, \Yas elected assist- ant managE'r for the coming year. * * * * The first junior hop of the year \Yill be held in Yates' Boat Housel next Friday evening. A Eosting ?\ \:\o no relation,'' Jim replied. ''The golf I refer :to, is a Scotch game.'' \Well John B. \Yas gam-e too, I reckon,'' laughed Asa, in which Jim and the squire joined. Some time later in New York Asa wandered unaccompanied aC'l.·oss 3 4!th Street, to Broadway, where he was soon accosted by a sUck-looking stranger, who addressed him as follows: \Ah how do you do;- Mr. Adams. Com·e to town once in a whUe, I see. I'm. selling coun. ta'y real estate now; don't care where it is located. good attendance is expected. Have you got any for sale over in Hohokus ?\ * * * * \No my friend, I ain't got no land for sale, I The '07 Garnet board held an executive session ain't Adam, and I don't live in Hokus-Pokus,\ Monday evening. Asa replied grimly and with emphasis. * * * * \Well well!\ replied the stranger, \what a re- White, the photographer, snapped the 'varsity markable resemblance! I never saw anything and squad Wednesday afternoon. quite so extraordinary. You must be a relative, * * * * another branch of the Adam's family?\ The Freshman football tea1n plays Albany High \Not this eve, stra11ger,\ said Asa. School at Ridgefield, Albany, next Tuesday after- \I really beg your pardon, but I am sure I noon, at the time of the carnival. haye met you somewhere, and got the name and * * * * Dr. Stoller left today to attend the 1neeting of the Montgomery )County T 1 eachers' Association at Canajoharie. While there, he is to deliver a paper, \Suggestions for Teaching Biology.\ * * :;: * vVeed, '0 1, is spending the week on the hill. He is coaching the scrub. * * * * Reed, '06 and Parsons, '07, spent Thursday and Friday at Hamilton College as delegates to the National Convention of Delta Upsilon. * * * * location mixed. Let me see, your name is --\ \Pinkham said Asa. \Certainly certainly, now I remember. I n'let you do·wn in let me see don't tell me 110\V --- it was down in --- er--- er --- how mortifying.\ \Lynn suggested A sa slyly. \Ah that's just where it was. Now it all comes back to me 1 and the first name is \ \Lydia said Asa with a laugh that attracted even the attention of a policeman on the oppos·te side. THE MAN FROM MAINE, by Frank Carlos Psi Upsilon gave an infor1nal dance at, its chap- Griffith. ter house Saturday evening, for the members of The C. M. Clark Publishing Company, Boston. the chapter. \The Man From Maine\ When Asa first hea't·d of golf, he turned to his friend and crony, Squire Doolittle and remarked: '\We never heard of goff, did we, squire?\ The squire agreed with his friend. Then turning to Jim Bailey, Asa asked: \Was he any relation to old John B. Gough, the temperance lecturer, that I once heered up to Treemont Temple in Wesleyans Record Wesleyan 30, Conn. State 0. Wesleyan 0, Yale 2 7. Wesleyan 0, Colum1bia 0. Wesleyan 19, Vermont 11. Wesleyan 31, N. Y. U. 0. Amherst has dropped basketball from her ath- letics.

in ng to I \ I \ et es THE CONCORDIENSlS 9 Tennis Results in the tennis to:u.rnament to date are as foHows: Dwight Curt:i'ss MiHer Fuller Dw:ightt_ .. J Curtiss .... Curtiss 6-r, 6-'8, 6-z. MiHer ( l Ful:ter ..... . FuUer J 6-o, 6-,r Merrill } Brow.. n •...... Brown 1-6, 6-r, 8·6 . Snow .... 1 Snow .. }' , 6-z, 6-o ··Snow ....... . Yates .. · 6-2,6-1 Fuller ..... 1 6-o. 6-3 I . . . . . . .. Mead •.. } Rowe ....... . Rowe . . 6· 3, 6-o . . . . . . J Colburn} · Colburn. . .. Brooks. · 6-4, 6-3 Potter. ~ ... Potter ..... St } Potter ... oney · · · · . · 6-r, 6-1 Stoney .... Mcintosh .. r-6,6-2,6-3 Meeker ... ( Schaupp ... ~ ....... · · ·. • Cabot ..... l . l Kmg ...... King ...... J 6-o, 6-z Vincent ... } Vincent } Vincent .. } McCormick McCormick 6-z, 8-6 LaCrosse .. ( LaCrosse} ...•.. Bayliss .... ) Bayliss . . . . . . . . I I l . . . . . . . . J Foreign Correspondence Those recently selected for the Hlall of Fame at N. Y. U., were John G. Whittier, Gen. William T. Sherman, John Quincy Adams, James M'adi- son, Alexander Hamilton (who received the high- est number of votes), Louis Agassiz, John Paul Jones, Maria Mitchell, Mary Lyon, and Emma - -_:::_-- _-:__c::.=================== Willard. Considerable surprise was expressed that Poe failed of election. * * * * The compulsory morning prayers of Princeton have been cut down from six times a week to two. This bids fa.ir to their aholishment. * * * * The total registration of th~ University of Pennsylvania, including all departments and all classes; is 3.:5 30. * * * * The laws of Minnesota forbid all pupils in the high sehools or universities of the state, under 21 years old, to use tobacco in any form. * * * * Hereafter the editors of the Minnesota Maga- zine, a Senio~r monthly, will be elected by a vote of all paid subscribers. Schedule September 30-Columbia 23, Union 0. October 7-Williams 12, Union 0. October 14-Rutgers 0, Union 11. October 2±-Trinity 0, Union 5. October 28-Wesleyan at Schenectady. Xovember 4-Hamilton at Schenectady. Xovember 7- November 11-Rochester at Rochester. November 18-Hobart at Schenectady. Xovember 25-N. Y. U. at Xe\v York. Omar Khyyam Up-to-Date The Post-l\Iorten1.. The grave professor writ2s, and having writ Goes on; nor all your deep regrets nor wit Shall lure hhn back to cancel half a line, Nor aU your moans shall change your fate ond whit. All Gaul is divided into three parts: Cheek, cast-iron nerve and brass.-Ex. * * * * There was once a young belle nam.ed Nell, Who when skating one day fell pell-mell; And those standing near, Were astonished to hear Her cry out in anger \0 my!\-Ex. '. I • ' I'

,, ,, 10 1\'HE CO·NC01~D1ENSIS ==============================================~==============~================.-.-- The Concordiensis. u1 Literary' and :J(ews Weekly 'Publzshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. Entered at the Postoffice at S<~henectady, N.Y .. as Second Class Matter BOARD OF EDITORS. D. F. IMRIE, 'o6, - F. L. MILLER, 'o6, F. W. NEWTON, '07, W. KING. 'o6, · P. L. CLASSEN, 'o6, B. W. REED, 'o6, J. R. BROWN, Jr., 'o3, S. C. FIERO, 'o-t., Editor-in ~Chief Business Manager · Asst. Business Mana:ger - Literary :Editor Athletic EJ!ito·r News Editor Alumni Editor Law Department ASSOCIATE EDITO:RS. E. C. BRADBEER, 'o7, W.T. MClNTOSH,'o7, L. S. PARSONS, 'o7. A. H. WHITE, 'o7, N. V. V. FRANCHOT zd, ''o7. REPORTORIAL STAFF. B. A. COLLINS, 'o8, A. V. V. RAY MONO, Jr. 'o8, L. S. HOFFMAN, 'o8, E. VANOLINDA, 'o8, M.S. WATSON, 'o8, M. H. WEY;RAUCH, 'o8. H. C. POWELL, 'o8 COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football {E. M. D.1nn, Ca;)t;tin; G. A. VeJder, Manager. B h ! , { L. N. Rider, C:.lrtrin; ase at J L M M . . · . oon, cmager. r k {C. N Waldron, Captain; rae S J. Raymond, Manager. Glee Club { B. W. Reed, Leader; G. C. Newbury, Manager. Instrumental Club 5 B. W · Reed~ Leader; ( G. C. Newbury, Manager. C d . . {D. F. Imrie, Editor; oncor zens1s . F L M'Il M • • 1 er, an3ger. G t I E. E. Haevey, Editor. arne I B. N. Mooers, Manager. Y. M. c. A. l C. N. W,aldron, President; · ··· I A. S. Kmght, Secretary. CONCORDIENSIS, Single Copies, TERMS. $z.oo Per Year,~in Advance 10 Lents Address all communications to THE CONCORDIENSlS, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Publication Office, SCHENECTADY GAZETTE. 'l.,HE' TRINITY 'GAlU:E Saturday's gatne contained a surprise for us. Not the victory itsd f, for we expected that. The surprise was the gan1e and its att~endant incidents. The tean1 had gone out to Hartford, expecting, to put it n1ildly, trouble. All fall we had been hearing re- ports of proceedings at Trinity, which, if true, wer.e a disg-race to a college. Between unfair officials ancl rough players, the opposing teatns had had hard titnes. So it was that the- teatn went prepared for the worst. It is far frotn us to cast any doubt upon the word of the other colleges itnplicated. \Ve know that they did have trouble. But it gives us pleasure to record here that the opposite \Vas the case Saturday. The ·treat- n1ent was fair in every way, the officials vvere honest and con1petent and, above all, the gatne was clean. Son1e of the players said that it was the cleanest gan1e that they had ever played in .. The few penal ~ies itn- posecl are proof of this; one on C'nion for holding and tvvo o:1 Trinity for off-side play. \\r e are not probing into the events before our gatne; vve are not entitled to speak of the1n, in fact. But we desire to say this one thing: Union has no cotnplain t to tnake for Trinity played a gentletnanly gan1e, a ga1ne of which any college n1ight well be proud and which tnany can afford to imitate. THE TRACJ{ l\1EET l\1onclay's track n1eet had an unusual re- sult in that it was \Von by the Seniors. A .. s this is the first titne that this has happened in we don't know how long, it is worthy of tnention. When it is considered that there are three or four Seniors who are on the 'varsity track team but who were not con1- peting, it is not wrong to consider that the victory n1ight have been still tnore decisive. But in this victorv there is a future ele- \' 1nent of danger. It is encouraging to look 1 ' ~ ~ .\ j

for its re- i£ it on he ey or de to ly e- ., ' l 'fHE CONCORDIENSIS ii forward t? a season with ple11ty of seasoned n1en on hand. Yet th·ere are other seasons coming. When one stops to consider that a small group of men in one class can carry all before thetn in such a way, he rnust snre-- ly see what a hole will be left in the team when that satne group of ·point winners shall have graduated. This, then is our point. Strong· 1nen n1ust be found and de- veloped who will step into these men's posi- tions. Partly these will con1e from :the tnaterial in the other classes, particularly in the Freshtnan class, where there seen1s to be sotne ability. But new men must also be found outside. When we are looking around for prospective freshtnen, vve n1ust not forget the track any n1ore than football and baseball. Last year we had the n1ost successful track tean1 in years. This year's protnises tnuch better. Let ns work to obtain the continued supre1nacy in track athletics that \Ve enjoyed in the days of our \world-beat- \ ers. CO:NCORDIEXSIS ~IEETIXGS. Perhaps all of the tnen1bers of the Con- corcly staff are not aware that a tneeting of the board is held every :\Ionday evening at 7 :rs o'clock in Sillitnan Hall. The attend- ance at those tneetings has hardly been what it should, and the above is the only explanation that we can find. If that is the case, no one need be in the dark any longer. At the meetings whatever business tnay con1e up is transacted. l\Iore than that, the regular week's work is assigned. This is itnportant. It is so1netin1es tnuch easier to give work to those men present than to spend the rest of the- week trying to find other men. It is no tnore than fair when the weeding out process comes at the end of the year that the preference be given to the tnen who have done their work and have displayed an interest in the paper. There is a little food for thought in this situation for those vvho· wish to rernain on the board. UNlON- TRINITY Varsity Wins by Narrow Margin Last Saturday· Union defeated Trinity at Hart ford, Conn., by the score of 5-0. The teams \vere very evenly matched as to weight but Capt. Lan- derfe:l d played more than his share of the game for Tr:nHy. He carried the ball more than any other t\vo players and carried it well. The strong feature of tlle game was the cleaness with which both sides played. Union was penalized 15 yards for ho.1di,rlg- and Trinity twice for off-side. The team \\Vhile at Hart;ford stopped at the Alleyn House. Every one \vas feeling in the best of shape when .they went on to the field. Union. has yet to have her 2nds outplayed, ·while the line sho·wed b:g improvement over the last game. There were no special stars, each man seeming to kno\\Y \vhat was expected of him and doing his full share of the work. Peck and Lent broke through and made several tackles. Von Dannen- burg and Capt. Dann played their usually strong game. Mulrooney at full back played a very consistant game. Long runs by Moore helped materially in 1naking our touch do'\vn. Arm- strong played in Harvey's place at left half and filled the position creditably. Merrill was tryed out at left tackle and made a good showil!g· The most notable improvement was McNab at quarter. He played the game without a fumble and saved his team from being scored on. by a clean tackle of the Trinity full back after he had broken away from the rest of the team. At 3:2 5 P. M., the teams lined up and Capt. Dann \von the toss. Wright received the ball and ran it back 20 yards. Moore ·went around the end and Dann followed. Davis took the ball around the end and Armstrong through guard. In this way the team worked the ball down to the 5 yard line, where it· was ·held for do\vns. Trinity took the ball back 20 yards by plays around left end and then was forced to punt. McNab got the ball and carried it 10 yards before he was downed. By line bucks and end runfl by ·i' ,,. ·-~ '·· ,, .. _, ,'· l -~­ l.l :t.t' 'ji· ,, [; I· l ljj \ ·'1:: '\ ii ! ''. 'I !l ! it . I ·: h ' ~~

.,. l i; 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS Moore Union again got down to Trinity's 6 yard line when Wright fumbled, Trinity falli:ng on t!h.e baH. By close formation plays and tackle baek Trinity worked Union back 3 0 yards, when they ·were penalized 5 yards for off-side and Union got the ball. Moore made a 2 0 yard run. Arm- strong got within a. yard of the line and :Mul- rooney \vent over for a touchdown. Moore failed! to kick a very difficult goal on account of th~ wind. Score-Union, 5; Trinity, 0. Xanders caught the kick-off and fumbled but advanced the ball 5 yards. Landefeld went through left tackle for 3 yar~ds. Donnelly rnade 1 yard on right side. Maxson went for 8 yards around left end. Her2, the third down, they tried old tandem play but Union held and got the ball. From this point till the end of the half the ball went up and down the field, mostly in Un- ion's possession. Uni:on was steadily and surely advancing the ball up the field and had only 2 5 yards to go when time was called. .After the brief intermission with teams lined up without a change in line-up, Union kicked to Mlason, who was downed 12 yards after receiv- ing the ball. T'rinity btgan to use tandem and close formation plays and carried the ball suc- cessfully to the center of the field, where Union \\voke up and from then. on. there was no fear of Trinity crossing Union's goal line. One. of Trinity's most spectacular plays was to have full back Xanders jump on Lauderfelt's back and hurdle the line. This play they tried twice but neither time was it successful enough to get them first down. During the last three minutes of play Union was in her old second-half form and had the ball on Trinity's 20 yard line when time was called. Final score-Union, 5; Trinity, 0. The line-up: \Union. Trinity. Davis • o • • • • • • • • • t • • • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • Pond L. E. Merrill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . Donnelly L. T. Von Dannenburg • . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . • • • • . . • Euek L. G. Peck I I I I I I I I I I •I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I '' I •I I I I I Burns c. Lent . . . . . . ...... ·• . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . Dougherty R. G.. DanE. (Capt.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Capt. Landerf,eld R. T. Wright .. Q •• • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Mo1--·gar1. R. E. McNab . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hubbard Q. Armstrong G I I I I t I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Mason L. H. :M:'oore • • • Cl • • •••• ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Maxson R. H. Xanders F. B. Umpire-Washburn of Amherst. Referee- Weeks of Syracuse. Head linesman-Roberts of Hartford. Timekeepers-Lynch of Trinity, Had- :fley of Union. Halves-25 and 20 minutes. FALL TRACK MEET Seniors Victorious The Fall track meet betw·een the four classes~ scheduled to take place on Saturday afternoon, October 21st, was postponed on account of the inclemency of the weather. However, there were several cont~stants, who appeared on the oval and not until a consultation between Captain Wald- ron, Dr. Towne and Felthausen had been held,. was it decided to put off the meet. The time de- cided upon was Monday at four o'clock. On Monday the competitors were again on hand and the meet run off although the day was very cold. There were no records broken, but the meet proved to be interesting and each event rather warmly contested. The class of 190 6 carried off the honors of the day, making a total score of 24, the other three classes taking 19 points each. The follow'ing were the events and the results: c 100 Yard Dash. \\Valdron '06 I I I t I I I I t I I I I I I I I I I I • t I I I I I I first Ha·gar, '06 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . secon,d R.oosa, '0 9 .... o • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • third Time-10 4-5 seconds.

THE CONC,ORDIENSTS I3 '' 75he LEVI MOORE Studio '' MAKERS OF ARTIS'TIC PH,Q,T·QGRAPHS Emory Irving W·endell, Proprietor J\Iile Run:. Langley, '07 .............................. first Cantwell, '07 ......................... second JZeith, '0 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . thi:rd Time-5 minutes, 15 1-3 seconds. 100 Ya·rd Lo\v Hurdles. Roosa, '09 first Langley, '07 ........................... second Rice, '0 9 . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • .. • . . . . . . . . . . • . . third Time-13 3-5 seconds. 88(!) Ya.rd RtUl. IS North Peari Street Albany, N. Y. Rice, '0 9 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . third Time-58 2-5 seconds. FIELD EVENTS. HaniDler Throw. first Klein, '08 ......... ·· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . second \'\Veyrauch '0 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . third Distance-79 feet, 6 1-2 inches. Running Broa(l Jump. Hagar, '06 first Waldron, '06 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . second Parsons, '0 8. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . first IT 1 '·ssl 1 'ng '0 9 tl1I·1·d :'!~... ' ' ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . Raymond, '08 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . second Flowers, '0 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . third Time-2 minutes, 10 4-5 seconds. Distance-18 feet, 10 inches. Shot Put. Rankin, '09 first 220 Y artl Dash. O'Donnell, '07 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . s2cond Roosa, '09 first Curtin, '08 ............................. third White 1 '0 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . second Distance-32 feet, 10 1-2 inches. George, '09 third Time-25 4-5 seconds. 440 Yard Dash. The meet has shown us that we have the mak- ing of some very good men in our fresh1nan class. We have men that may have the ability to Waldron, '06 first \sprint\ and \sprinters\ are \VVhite '07 ............................ second, badly almost as anything else. A few men. might Style is King in Sltoedom these days, and that is no merry jest either. Cfhe careful dresser considers well the looks of his shoes-the shape,. finish,. all the little points,. from heel to foe, which taken all together means '~smartness.\' These details are aaded to the every hest in quality of leather and ~orkmansftip to make our $3.50 t/'(.ahob Shoes. Where? Only at Fearey's Shoe Store 23,0 State St,. Schenectacly ~~On the 'Wrong side of the street'' ' . i ;

,. I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS also be developed without any harm who could handle the weights and make us a little more sure in one or t\:vo 1nore of the field events. The officials w·ere as follows: \Valdron, '0'6, referee. S. Raymond, '06, cierk of the course. Newbury, '06, field judge. Dr. Towne, track judge. Felthausen, starter. Von Dannenberg and Moon, timers. Union vs. Wesleyan The vars:ty will play one of the hardest games of the season today, when it meets Wesleyan on the campus. Wesleyan co,mcs h~re supported by son1e excellent scores. 'The team is said to be fast. In point of weight, it far outclasses our team, averaging t\:venty pounds more to the man than Union. 'The line from tackle to tackle is said to average 203 pounds. This advantage in ·weight, it is hoped, will be in great part, over- come by speed and endurance. The physical condition of the men, with but a few exceptions, is fine and they are fit for a hard, ·wearing con- ·~ . ~· TIFF ANY & CO. Jewelers to College Men. * * * * Designs and es61nates furnished for Fraternity Pins., Class Ri11gs, Class ·Cups Station.ery, Etc. * * * * No order will be accepted for ex- ecution at a pri:c~e not consistent with the best workmanship and a quality worthy of the na1ne of the House. UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK II I ===~ men playing with the guards. Some new forma- test, as today~s will be. ::\o chances will be taken tions, which will b~ used on Wesleyan today, \\Vith the men, however, as every effort is being were successfully used on the scrub. made to keep the1n in shape for the Hamilton game, which is of more moment to us than the Wesleyan game. There will be little change in the tea1n from that played last Saturday. Mulroony, who played so well against Trinity, is improving steadily at full back and will be played there. He shovvs The game will be called at 2:30 P. lVL, that · \Vesleyan may get an early start for home. Weeks of Syracuse will umpire. The halves will be twenty-five minutes each. In order that the sing-ing may be better than before, the members of the Glee Club will be seated in the middle of the bleachers with the much more life and vim than he did early in the fellows grouped around them. Better results season. It is welcome news to all that Xutt has are hoped for by this rn€ans. rejoined the squad. At present, the coach is working him into all line positions, for any of which his aggressiveness fits him. He may play today at tackle in place of Capt. Dann, whose leg has been troubling him for the past week. Har- vey's foot is still in bad shape and he also will be saved. Ar1nstrong will take his place at half and can be depended upon to give a good account of himself, as he did at Trinity. Throughout the week the scrub pushed the The line-up: Wesleyan. Davis F' 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1n ey L. E. Merrill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . North L. T. Von Dannenburg . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Seelye L. G. Peck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Doe c. varsity hard. M'ore men were out and the scrub Lent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rraylor was usually composed of thirteen men, the extra R. G.

THE ·CONCORDIENSIS IS Dann (Nutt) I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Dearbo:rn R. T. vVright 1 1 1 1 I 1 I 1 I 1 I I I I to I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Iteiter R. E. McNab I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Van Surdam Q. B. Armstrong I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 'I I I I I I 10 I I I I Hampson L. H. B. Moore I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Gildersleeve R. H. B. Mulrooney I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Bailey F. B. FRESHMEN AT ·GLOVERSVILLE High School Wins Easily The Freshman football team journeyed to Gloversville last Saturday to try conclus:ons with the strong High School team there, and were easily beaten. T'he F'rE'shmen, through ·want of practice, lacked unity and strength while the heavier Gloversville men were in good condition and showed the result of careful practice. It ·would be a good thing, if Freshmen intend to send out teams that are bound to be more or less representative of the college, to spend a little time between games in perfecting their style of play. In that event they might become a match for the neigh boring preparatory school teams. To go around the country vvith a picked up team and lose is of no credit, either to the class or the college. Saunders, the big full-back was easily the star ground gainer for Gloversville, though he was aided much by the good interference of his team mates. His long end runs helped materially in GO TO:-- FOR FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL, GYM, GOLF, AND ~IGH CUT HUNTING SHOES. ALSO HEAVY SOLE OXFORDS FOR FALL AND WINTER. 457 STATE STREET Men's and Boys' Shoe Store .dz.fJ:~~~~~~~~~~·~~~J-?'~~~~·~~~1-?'~R~t?.~ ~~~41~~~ ~-~~~~~~~~~'~::So.'!~~~~~-~~~~~·~·~~~·~\~ !I· . ~ ! .J'peci,al}'ri:ces ,fo Col e9e JYien ·~ ~ T .:> a:l C811ege men we offer special i;:1duce- ~ ~· r.:ents in our ready t~ wear Garments. . .:. ~ VIe also ha_ve. a .spec1al crd.er. department tlus ~ ~ feas:.::n an-1 wrU bmld your smt JUSt as you want ~ ~ it .fr.::m $15.00 up. It will not cost you any ~ ~ mere than the garment all ready made. A ~ ·~ liberal discount \':ill. be allowed on yo.ur pur- ~ ~il chaze. Y cur credtt 1s good, for artyth1ng you ~ ~ v- a'1t. Call and let us prove .h sw well and ~ ·~ ccrectly we can dr~;: you,·. ~or httle money. ~ : ~au: s 1 !, G. W . .SLAGHT, Manager. .; ~ 503 State Street Loraine Block ~~~®-~~~®~i~®®~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the size of the score. He scored the first touch- down and Stille scored the second. Stille kicked one goal, th-e score at the end of the first half being G. H. S. 11, '09, 0. After Gloversville kicked off for the second half, the Frosh made some consistent gains, using Mead, J\Xaugham and Vedder with fair success. After an exchange of punts, High School held for do\-rns. After a series of good gains, Stille \Yas shoved over for the third touchdmvn, also kicking goal. Score, G. H. S. 17, '09, 0. Time ·was called with the ball on the F'resh- men's 12 yard line. :Maugham. Mead and Potter excelled for 190 9. 1 The line-up: G. H. S. 1909. Erovvn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Vanderbosh (Kelly) L. E. Fish . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cabot L. 'T. D2 Golyer . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . McCormick L. G. Arthur II I I I I f I t f I I I I I I f I I I I I I Bayless (Moore) c. WOOD BROS. THE :MEN'S OUTFITTERS. 1-Iave the Best and Latest Styles iu Goods for ~len. J\lanhattan Dress Shirts. Adlers, Fo-wnes and Perrins Gloves. Cra·wford Shoes. The \Boston Derby\ and Tourist' Hats. The Largest Line of N eck\vear, 265 STATE ST.

'I· I• I6 THE CONCORDIENSIS Tl~ompson ......... ~~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brown R. G. Lake • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • \ • Gl • • • Vedder R. T. Crapo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Maughan1. R. E. II,ucha:I1S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Potter Q. B. Stille . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hendricks R. H. B. Wilkins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Col bur11. L. H. B. Saunders (Capt.) (Capt.) Mead F. B. Drawing Materials an:d .......... . Surveying Instruments 413 State St. ..WEBER & RusH, Props. & Mgrs. J os. WEBER, Res. l\1 gr Van~urler Q)pera !)ouse A L w A y s A G 0 0 D C. H. 13E:SEDICT s H TELEPHONE 0 ~Ianager No. 335 W A. L. OWENS ... CATERER ... UTICA, N.Y. The Swellest line of Ready-to-wear Clothes --Hats and Men's Furnishings.-- P. B. KEARNEY 303-305 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Exclusive Sale of theW. S. Peck & Co., Clothing·----Made in Syracuse. H. R. J>h.one 168-J Home Phone 168 \ALWAYS AND A GOOD SHOW.\ Entire Week Starting 3 Q Monday Matinee, Oct. · · DELL PRICES Matinees 1'0 & 20 Cts. Evenings 15 to 5Q Cts. M A T I N E E E v E R y D A y

ADVER'I'TSEMEN'TS If you can a.fford a journEy to !\ew York and a $100 suit, you are lucky, but ·we are not. If you ·want the effect of a Xe\Y York $10·@ suit without its cost, have a look at the special lines of clothing ·we can y fm: college 1n.:n. Hand se·wed, hand shaped. And not at all like ·what has always been called \ready made\ clothing. Hand shaping and hand sesving, n~eans not only that \difference\ o.f price which is so irn- portant at the beginning. but n1eans ctothE's that hold their shape and neYer look \pulled dOI\Tn\ at the shoulders. Any college man knows another college rnan as soon as he st es hirn. There is an at1nosphere one can never los...:. Clothes may not nulke a man, but they can un1nake him. We haYe eYelything college 1nen \Year. Watch our advertisc:'ments. rnion. Collll'g'e Coh:H s in S\Y('HH'l'S and Ja<.'-krts. Sack~ uit Prices begin at $to and end at $.i5 Jffb%ewman PIT:-:~I:LD c?fo n-J (30m pangOLJ:J~~r:;~u.J.£ SCHENECTADY ~-----------•90S ____________________ __ Lorraine Building Cor. State and Clintcn. Spec:al Prices to Students H. R. Phone 360-F. Rooms Heated Throughout by Steam Refitted and Refurnisbed HOTEL VENDOME EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. 6'0 YEA:R'S' EXP;E':R I:ENC E T·RADE -MARKS 'DESIGNS COPYRIGHTS &c. Anyone sending a s;ltet.ch and description may qulcldy ascertain onr o.piHioH free whether an invention is probably patentruhle. Communica- tions strictly confidential. HANDBOOK on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents. Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive special notice, without charge, in tbe Sci~ntifi( Jfm¢1•i,ta;n. A handsomely illustrated weekly. J,nrgest cir- cnlation of any scientific joU:rnal. 'l'errns, $3 a year; four months, $1. Sold by all newsdealers. MUNN & C0. 3616 roadway, New York Branch Office, 625 F St., Washington, D. C. C. GAPCZYNSKI .\.l~o a PitH' Line oi'-- JE\\TEIJHY PICT\CRE FRAJII~G, STATIOXERY SCHOOL BOOliS AXD SrPPI.JIES . H. R. Telephone 319-R 1-.l CEXTlL\l.J ~-\IlC..:\DE JA. RICKARD 8 Co. SPC)Rrfi::\G GOODS ancl Full Line of Dra \ving I nstru 1nents. 253 State Street Schenectady F. ROTHMYER Groceries, Provisions, r::ruits, Etc. ro4-ro6 STATE STREET Home Phone r6g H. R. Phone r6g-W. The Schenectady Clothing Co. GIBSO~, WALTOX & HAGADOR:N Headquarters for Dunlap Hats, College Brand Clothing Dress Suit Cases, Class Caps, Canes. Edison Hotel Bldg. 3I3-3I5 State St. S.clipse J:,aundry 2r5 HULETT ST. J. H. PRUNIER, Prop. Work called for and delivered Cor. of State and Centre Sts. Schenectady, N. Y. Sno·w Flake \Vork Home Phone 1020 . i

IS ADVERTISE1\1ENTS. Electric Lighting -'--\pparatus. Electric Railway .... \pparatus. Electric Power Apparatus. Electi•ic Transmission of Powei._ Sales offices in all the lail·ge cities of the United States. :General Electric Co. SCHENECTADY, N. Y. BOWLS MADE: IN FRANCE Pipes Repaired The-·-·-· COLLEGE BO;OKSTORE Quick Service. Correct Editions Guaranteed Low Prices. C~e\SLER, '06 Del\IEY, '07 South Section, South College ltobsonaAdee BOOKMEN SCHENE,CTADY AND SARATOGA OSCAR J. GROSS, D. D. S. OFFICE HOURS: 9 A. M. to 4 P. M. 404 UNION STREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. IZIDOR FRIEDMAN DEALER I~ BEEF, PORK, VEAL, L&.\\fB HAMS, BACON All kinds of Poultry in Season Tel. 59-A. 53 So. Centre, Cor. Liberty AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE COMPANY Schenectady Works, Schenectady, i\T. Y. Brooks \Yorks, Dunkirk, N. Y. Pittsburg \Vorks, Allegheny, Pa. Richmond Works, Richmon.d, Va. General Offices, 2 5 Broad Street, New York. • o.n' •w• -~~-,,-.\=·~. :;:· ~~::r'· \i\if!?;r;r::r;1f:;7j':~t:'~\'\\·'\''d:~ . nn • •• \\~. • • ~=\1 . ;, Cooke \.Yorks. i Paterson,!N: J. Rhode Island \\Yorks ProYidence, R. I. : Dick son \Yorks, Scranton. Pa. ' 1\Ianch eRter \\VorK.s ~ranchester, N. H. Loc<i)lnotin• & l\faehine Co. '! Montreal. Canada BUILDERS OF LOCOMOTIVES FOR ALL CLASSES OF SERVICE.

ADVERTISEMENTS CORNELL UNIVERSITY MEDICAL c·OLLEGE., New York City ~HE cou~se_ coverin~ f;our years begin~ dur·~ng the first week in October and continues until June. A prelim mary tratmng tn natural science 1s of great advantage. . . · All the classes are divided in small sections for recitation·, laboratory and clinical bedside tnstructton. Students are admitted to advance standing after passing the requisite examinations. . The successful completion of the ikst year in anyCoHege or University recognized by the Regents of the State of New York as maintaining a satisfactory standard is sufficent to satisfy the requirements for admission which have lately been raised. The annual announcement g,iving fuU particulars will be .. mailed on application. W.Mi. M. POLK, M. D •• LL. D., DEAN, Corl\ell lJn-iversity Medical College, 27th and 28th Streets and 1st Avenue. N.Y. City BOTH :PHONES 1.27 Lark Street, Albany, N .• Y. MUSIC FOR WEDDINGS A SPJ!ICIALTY --.Furnished Music-.....;. Union Colleg~-93, '94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '0(), '01, ~02, '03, '04:, '05 •. Cornell University-'94:, '95, '96, '97, '98, '99. 'OiL '01, '02, '03~ Colgate University-'94:.'95,'96,'97,'98, '99,'00, '()1., '02, '03, '04:, '05. · Williams Oollege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99, '00, '()1. ~(:)2, '03, '04, '05. Hamilton Oollege-'95, '96, '97, '98, '99~ '00, '01, ''02, '03. Governor's Mansion-'94,'95,'96.'97.,'98.'99,'00; '01, '02, '03, '04:, '05. EDWlN POSSON'S TONSORIAL PARLOR Opposite VanCurleJ.•, Jay Street BATHS Razot\s Honed The best equipped shop in tbe city. All modern improvements. A new compressed air outfit. WM. J. GLEASON Successor to R. T. Moir Books, Fine Stationery, Picture F\raming Wall Paper, Etc., Etc. Steamship Agency 333 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. WHOLESALE and .. RETAIL Both Phones 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck Coal and Mason Supplies Office 306 Union St. Scheneet~td,f, ::S. Y. CHAS. LIMMER •• Florist •• LORRAINE BLOOK Both Phon(~~ STATE STH.EET 'The Gazette is .easily the foremost dally {n Schenectad)). -PRINTERS' INK, Aug. 30, 1904: . •. Schenectady Railway Company ELECTRIC LIGHTING ELECTRIC HEATIN·G ELECTRIC POWER ELECTRIC EXPRESS Telephone 4~5 General Office 420 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Whether for Street Wear; For Daylight Ceremonials~ or for After-~ix Formalities, II THE 'VARSITY MAN WHO WEARS \STEEFEL\ QUALiTY CLOTHES HAS 'TI-lE SATISFACTION OF KNOWING HE COULDN'T DRESS BETTER IF HE TRJED STEEFEL BROTHERS ' 78-80-8.2 State' :Street Albany, N. Y. ~---·~·------------------·------------- PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

There is a certain air and style about our Clothing that you do not get anywhere else. There is a liberality about it and a fineness of finish that is onily secured by the greatest of care. The fit is perfect, the style up to date and the fabrics the most approved. Our Hats and Furnishings also express the most approved styles. BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N. Y. We make the most Up-to-date and Best Fitting Clothes . . . . . . . . . . . . . We have the Finest and Largest Assort- I I ment of Fabrics to Select From fl~ We We carry the Best Line ·of Gents' Furnishings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · Schenectady ~ give the Best Value for SOc, $1.00, $J.50 Neckwear of any house ) STULL BROS Tailors and Haberdashers Near Clinton 467 State St.

