UNiON COL I £{) s~ · L u£ LIBRARY. ~ ~ .,:f ~ THE k· • • • CONCORDIENSIS VOLUlVlE XXXIII NUMBER 10 DECEMBER 1, 1909. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

D I~CE ~~ BI£ R 1, 1909. _.,.. ._._ ..... :11:\\ fOil' •• 3l>l ·e-••• IP Si'Jil·-~----·-IQ ___ W ... il<lj PUBLISHEIJ \VEEKL ·y Biy 'ri-lE STUiJE~T'S C)F Ui\11()0J UNIVERS!Tl:.

;:_ ! I ! ; ~ .: 2 THE CONCORDIENSIS • • • UNION UNIVERSITY • • • CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D.~, Chancellor UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. T,he ·College offers undergraduate courses as follows: 1.--iCLASSICAL COUlRSES-Leading to the De- gree of A. B. A. Greek is required for admission to this Course. B.· Greek i·s begun at entrance and is required for f.our years. 1 • 2.--'LATIN-SCIENTIFlO COURSE-· Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. This Course offers Latin without -Greek. 3.----~SCIENTIFIC COURSE~Leading to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater p:art of the work of the last tw<> years is elective. 4.-GENERAL ENGINEERIN 1 G COURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. During th·e third and fourth years two alterna_ tive options are offel\'ed in this ·Course. Option A--~In which the fundamental princi- ples of advanced tBchnical subjects receive ·emph·asis. Option B-In whicb studies are offered which give a preparation for engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. 5.---4GENERAL ENGINE:ERING COURSE, of six years, leading to the degrees of B. E. and Ph. B. This Course ·provides college and technical training ·by combining Courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANITARY E·NGINEERING COURS.E-IR.adL. oing ·to the Degree of B. E. 7.~ELECTRICAL E:NGINEERING COURSE- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers ·also graduate cours·es in Engineering of one year's res.id!eut ·study, as follows·: 8.~Graduate Cours·e in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. C. E. 9.--Graduate Course in. Electrical Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. E. E. For catalogue, address FRANK COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. There Must Be a Beginning Why ~ot rnake it no.w ? $I.oowill open the account Interest begins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY :MJEUICAL COLLEGE__,In.struction by Lectures, Re·citations, Clinics, Laboratory Work, Practical Demonstl\'ations and Operations. Hospital and Labor.atory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion, sent on appl!i cation to WiiLLIS G. TUOKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPAR7MENT OF LAW ALBANY LA W1 SCHOOL-!This department of the University is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. EXPENSES---~Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or othe·r information, ad- dress ALBANY LA WI SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBAN·Y COLLE:GE OF PHARMIACY-.Exer_ cises held in Albany Medical College building. Graded course ·of instruction comprising two terms of six and one-half months each. Fees, eig.hty dollars per term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, address THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lan0aster St., Albany, N. Y. Secretary. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YATES' BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State q Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connec- tion with house .. ::::::: 29 FRONT STREET, SCHENECTADY

== THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N.Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FRED'K W. ROCKWELL fbunday mv~ning 'Dinner Special Orchestral Programme fbupp~r aft£r the ~?lay Music in G ill begins at 10.30 Dinner Music in Grill Friday and Saturday Evenings Dinner Music Daily I 6.30 to 8.30 o'clock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S EUROUEAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadrway and Maiden Lane GENTLEMEN ONLY ALBANY, N.Y. 250 Rooms LADIES RE:STAURAINT ATTACHEO . :SPECIAl.~ NmW RATHSKELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Room Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms \V.\1. H. KEF:LEF:, Prop, \nnex.[>~~·an.d5.!\l Broadway COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of . Caps~ ti~wns and Hoods ·Te the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in PURE DRUGS GOOD CIGARS KO'DAKS PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYLER'S BONBONS and CHOCOLATES Lyon Drug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 7 14 Hamilton Street 13 McClellan Street: Catering to Ladies and Children \\\Teber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. Taylor, Resident ManageT matin~~ Ev~ry Day 3 Cbangin~ Pr~~ram mondav and Thllrsday WITH Big Extrava~anza C\)mpanv PRICES-Matinee 10 cents and 25 ceuts Night, I 5 cents to 50 cents Daily Matinee for Ladies and Children~ r o cents, reserved any part of the house SEATS.NOW ON SALE

4 Student STU~EN!S furnis~ing thei.r own. roo~s will b;e Interested tn our ,display for thetr especial benefit, from which we quote: Strong lron Couc'hes, $2.75 Beading Ta.bles, $3 •. 50 to $10 Furniture Com~Jet.e wUh Mattre'Ss, 4.7 5 Writing nesks, 3.50 to 24 The Wallace Co. The White Wav - el Q NE can be an Indian in Summer with perfect pro- priety but the call of the White Way is now quite imperative. First Aids to the White Man in Society: White Shirts made in a white manner. Stiff bosoms, pleated and negligee. Other whiteness in Collars, Hand- kerchiefs, Gloves, Dress Ties, etc. We are consistent. We will treat you \ w bite.\ 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop ,· Morse Bowling Alley FRED TH.L1LMAN Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, Etc. Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. GATES, Proprietor • Cigarettes Cigars • • lee Cream and Ices consta11tly on h.and · RES'fAURANl-t 238 State Street .. . . C OLLEGE DAYS is one of the special mo~ntings and folders among the large vanety we have, lets show you what we can do for you; and we wont rob you on the price either. THE OBENAUS STUDIO 305 STATE STREET LORRAINE BLOCK

THE CoNCORDIENSIS VOL. XXXIII. UNION COLLEGE, DECEMBER 1, 1909 No. 10 .FOQT.BALL. Atkin Veseley . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -- Union Badly Defeated. On Saturday, November the twentieth, Un1on was badly defeated by New York University ~t >T ew York, the final score being forty-.seven to In this, t11e last football gan1e of U1e 'b' ll·O'C lllg. year, the Garnet team made a p·oor showing, doubtless due to the fact that many of t:he regu19.r })layers were unable, be·cause of injuries, to tn.ke part in the game. The greatness of the score rn~y a.1so be accounted for, when one realizes that the ~ew York University team has not sustained a single defeat this season. •One of Union's greatest weaknesses in tl:lis f·ame was that both' Brown and Stewart, w~o nave been depended upon to do the kicking, did not play. Consequently the kick offs were made very poorly. Brown was missc3d on. the line al~.o. Micks played a star game at fullback, bot'h on the defensive and offensive. Following a kiclr-off ty New York University, Micks carried the baH forty yards before he was tackled. On account of the time which llas interv':>n~d since the ga1ne was played, no full account i8 given. The first half ended with the score twenty- three to nothing; while, in the second h~lf, ~~. Y. U. rolled up twenty-four points. The team.s lined up as follows: Union N. Y. U. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ee er · apt.. 1ris'h, Dunbar ) Wh 1 (C Left end. Tra1)n D · B .1:' ••••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • av1s, rennan Left tackle. \ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . enne erger, Dress1or Sellnonr H b Left guard. Right tackle. l\HUer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... Crawford, Elifft· Right end. Shutler, We hb ~ixon I t I I I I • I I I I I I I I I I e I I ' I t I I I Quarterba~k. Reilly, Dewey I I I I I t I t t I I I t I I I I I Gorsch, Norlin Left halfback. He.quembourg (!Capt.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Moore 1Right 1l.a1fback. · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ule, Kennedy lVIicks y Referee-Kinzer, of Columbia. Umpire-Sann .. ders, of Columbia. Field judge-Knolt, of Hanl- ilton. Time of halves-30 minutes. THANKSGIVING GA.M ES. Fordham, 5; Syracuse, 5. Pennsylvania, 17; Cornell, 0. Carlisle, 32; St. Louis University, 0. Washington and Jefferson, 18; University r-'f \Vest Virginia, 4. Notre Dame, 0; Marquette, o. Colgate, 38; Carnegie TeclL School. 6. Bucknell, 12; George Wasbin~ton, 6. Pennsylvania State, 5; University of P1tt~- burg, 0. La fayette, 5 ; Dick in son, 0. Ohio State, 22; Kenyon, 0. 'Missouri, 21; Kansas~ 6. Drake, 11; Ames, 0. 1Haskell, 16; Nebraska, 5. Bewanee, 16; Vanderbilt, 5. Auburn, 16; Georgia, 5. Denver, 29; Colorado College, 6. Buller College, 12; Wabash College, 0. -------- Y:~dder ... ' .................... . Cooney, K!:lpff According to statistics compiled at the Univf1r· sity of Minnesota, out- of 1,660 women who h., ve graduated from that college only 380 have mar- Center. O'Connell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... Mackay Right guard. ried.

6 THE OONCORD.IENSl~ THE NEW GYM. New Gymnasium, in addition to the names of the We have not heard J.nuch recently about the purchasers of bricks and their c~asses, there will progress of the Gym m.ovement but the m·en in be placed a bronze tablet. This will contain the charge of it are working all of the time. They have recently gotten out the following three arti- cles W 1 hich are to be sent around in order to keep the alumni constantly in touch with the plans. In the trophy room of Union's gymnasium there will be a large fireplace. This will be named after the class which, in the final reckoning, shows the highest percentage of loyalty. Tt ... is percentage will be ·computed as follows: The classes will first be listed in the order of total subscriptions; second, in t'he order of percentage of responses; third, in the order of average swb- scriptions })er subscriber; and fourth, in the ord·er of the average subscription per living member. The number of the pla·ce occupied by each class in each of these lists will be added together. Tte smallest total will indicate the highest percent- 0 age of loyalty. The na1ne of the winning class will be carved on the fireplace. If you would have your class respond most lov- ally to this -call from the old College send in your check or subscription TO.JDAY, to Prof. Howard Opdyke, Union ·College, Schenectady, N. Y. Make checks payable to The Trustees of Union Col- lege. One-half of the hundred thousand dollars neces- t:ary to the success of Union's New Gymnasium project 1nust be subs·cribed by February 1, 1910. At each time a detailed report will be made of the subscriptions 1by OL.A!S8E.S. This will in· elude the total subs·criptions of each class, the percentage of responses, the average subscrip- tion per subscriber, and t:he average subscription per living mem·ber. Have you sent in YO·UR subscriptions? If not, do so at once so t:hat your class may make the best possi'ble showing. Checks and subscriptions may be mailed t0 Professor Howard Opdyke, Union Gollege, Sche- nectady, N. Y. Make checks payable to The Trustees of Union College. narnes of those Alu1nni or friends who provide lhe means for several of the most intportant feat- ures of the ~building. The swtmming pool can be lJ a:ined for ten thousand dollars; the general equipment of the building for a like amo11.nt; the furnishing of the ladies' parlor, etc., also provides splendid opportunity for special subRcri:ptions; as -does the running traek; memorial entran·ce doors would provide similar opportunity and would add much to the attractive appearance of the building. J £ these things do not appeal to you there are other things about the new gy1n that will. Send on your subscription and state your wishes, but above all, send on your subscription. ~M:ake checks payable to Trustees of Union Col- lege and mail both checks and subscriptions to Howard Opdyke, Union College, 'Schenectady, N.Y. HOCKEY. During the winter of 1906-07 and 1907-08 U~ere was a ·college hockey team here at Union which :1 layed several games although unrecognized by the Athletic Association. This past week an ~f­ fort v.;-as started to get hockey recognized as a regular college sport. There is undoubtedly a large amount of good material in college at pres- ent and t'here is no reason why this talent should not be organized into a first-class team, which will do credit to Union. At a 1neeting of those interested in the sport after college meeting on Monday last, T. D. Walser, '10, was elected man- Hger and he is now under negotiations to obtain [;_ regular rink for practice. He is also making out a schedule and now it rests with the fellows. If enough interest is manifested, the movement will prove a success and it is therefore up to PVery man in college with any hockey ability at a 11 to turn out for the practices. Announcement will be made when and where they will be held as soon as possible. DO IT NOiW-TO-DAY. There are fifteen companies in the university Upon the walls of the trophy room of Union's ~-~egiment at Illinois.

~' . rrHI~~ <;<)NCOltlJlfl£NSl8 7 :CONVENTION OF GOLLEGE AND PREPARA- TORY s~CHOOLS OF MIDDLE S1'At'ES AND 'MA.RYLAND. President Richmond Present. ''·Prexy\ Richmond wa:s present as the repre- sentative of Union College at the twenty-ttl.ird an- nual convention of the Association of Collegeg and Preparatory 8chools of ehe Middle ·States and Maryland, which was held on Friday ~.nd Satur·· rlay of last week, under the auspices of the Uni- versities, Colleges and Schools of Washington, D. C. 'THE CHRIS1'lAN ASSOCIATION. iO:r. 1 Brown of Union Seminary to Speak. At the, vesper service next Sunday afternoon Dr. Wi:IUa:m Adams Brown of New York city will ~peak '011l: the subject, \The College Man in the NUnist~·y.'' Mr. Br,own is well quali'fied to speak on a su.®ject of this sort owing to his wide ex- perience. For over ten years he has acted as Roosevelt professor of systematic theology in Union Sem.inary. He has had considerable ex~ perience in literary work and has written seve:ral works on religious su'bje·cts. The .Association hopes that there will be a full attendance at this meeting, since Dr. Brown has f'ome up from New York for the sole purpose nf ·hei :ng at the meeting. T 1 h€ weekly Bible classes met as usual in ·Silli- the author of \The Reorganization of Our Col- rnall Kall on Tuesday evening. The attendance On Friday morning the subject, ''The Utiliz'l- tion of the College Fraternity in Student Life,\' was considered, the main address being deliveron by Mr. Clarence F: Birdseye of New York city, at these classes is steadily increasing, the dis- rus'Si0ns with Dr. Hoffman being especially well- Eu-pp()ried among the seniors. \Prexy\ Richmond bas charge of the freshmen, and a course of un·· usual interest is being given. The juniors and sophernores have been united into one class under th.e guidance of Dr. Ada1ns. Owing to Dr. Adams 1.avi11g other engagements this group will not l11.eBt again until next Friday. leges.\ Mr. Birdseye is also the editor of a '·:na~­ azine ealled \The AmBdcan College,\ whic'h has heen published but a few months. ·President Richmond also entered into t:1e dis- cussion on this topic an.d said that although he himself was a non-fraternity man, coming as he did from PrinGeton where fraternities are un- known, :he spoke as the presi-dent of the .college in which many of the older fraternities were or- ganized. He then went on to tell about the fr3.- ternities whicll were originally founded at Union College-Kappa Alpha, in 1825; Sigma Phi, in 1827; Delta Phi, in 1827; Psi Upsilon, in 1833, and the Chi Psi, in 1841. He said that from his short observation of the working of fraternities at Union, he felt that they rould be~ used to supply the need of 'home life in college as well, if not better than any other FOOTBALL SCHEDULE. Oppts. UP1on Oct. 2-M. A C. on Campus . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . {j . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Oct. 9-vV. P. I. on c;,_mrus Oct. 16-Hobart at Geneva Oct. 23-Rochester on Campus . . . . . . . . 6 Oct. 30-,iVesleyan at Middletown. . . . . 24 ~ov. 6~Middlebury on Campus ........ 6 ~:o-v. 20.-1~. Y. U. at New York ....... 47 0 3 \ ,) 3 18 0 agency we have at present. He also expressed his opinion that the evils existing in the fr:1ter- :---lo'l. 20-~. Y. U. at ~ew Yor1c ....... - T:otals ............................... 102 33 nities are capable of correction. At this conference the question of entrance re- quirements in English was also taken up. The general feeling of those present was that greater freedom should be allowed among the students as to the ctoice of books to be read for entrance Englis'h, .Al1 men1bers of the sopho:;.nore class at the \t;n:i'versi Ly of Was\hington who did not take })art in the underclass s.crap two weeks ago are to be ducked in the lake by members of their own class.

8 '1'HE 0'0NCORDIENSI~ The Concordiensis A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE S'l'UDEJN'l'S OF UNION UNIVERSTTY. Entered .at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Ya, as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, H. G. Van Deusen, '10, Phi Delta Theta House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, T. D. Walser, '10. BUSINESS MANAGER, A. R. Chaffee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIATE EDITORS, .T. Beakley, '11. W. D. Ca vert, '11. REPORTORIAL STAFF, H. T. Case, '13. J. H. Po,tter, '12. R. P. Patterson, '12 H. A. Schermerbarn, '12. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Football. .... A. IIE'qnemlJonrg, '10 ......•. Captain ~ L. { II. K. Ilntehen~, '10 ........... Yianager 1 .T. G. CharE'st, '10 ............•. Captain Basketball ... .J. 7.;iinmPr, '10 ................ M:anagPr 1 A. lL l>Pnnis, '10 .............•. Captain 'l'rnclL ...... . I I. II. G1·rwPr, '10 .............. Manager · 1 II. P _ fitE'wart, '10 .............. Captain Baseball ..... ~. K. Hy<lP, '10 ................ Manager Y. ::\f. C. A .... lion or Caurt Terrace Council ~Insical Clubs Concordiensis 1!)11 Garnet •. Press Club ... 1 ~. :u. Cuyprt, '10 ............. President .J. II. PottPr. '11 .............. SE'cretar:r ~ T. n. WalSPI', '10 .............. President ? \V. D. ('a YPrt, '11 .............. Se-cretary i i l { S. ::\L CaYPrt. '10 .............. President H. II. Grever, '10 ............. Secretary f'. m_ Smith, '10 ............... Manager Glee, 0. A. Faust, '11 ............. Leader :\.Inmlol in, ~. W'\. Sl utter, '10 .... Leader ll, G. Vnn DPnRPll, '10 .......... Eflitor A. R. Chafff'e, '10 .............. Manager .T. R('akl('~'. '11. ......... Editor-in-Chief 'T. U. Townsf'IHl. '11 ......... Bus. Mgr. i A. E. Kt·iegsmau. '10 .......... President II. ~. TnnnlmH, '12 ........... Sec1·etary TER::\fS: One subscription .................................. $2.00 Single Copies ................................. 10 Cents. Publication Office, Schenectady EvPning Star. The football s-eason of 19·09 li.as closed and though our team did not FOOTBALL. win many victories during the sea- son we do not think that we ought to feel disappointed over the re- sults. At the beginning of the season t'he pros- pects were not very bright for a good team be- cause of the fact that so few of the positions would be filled by old men but would be open to new material. As a result of this very few of the men who played did so as regulars but were being constantly changed a!bout. Another thing that went against the team was the fact that some· of the best men were kept out of the game because of injuries and Vhe effect of this was es- pecially felt in the last game. But many of the new m-en showed up well and promise to make ex- ceptionally good material another year. We can he certain that the team for next year will be far stronger than this year for, while several good ~en will be lost by graduation, their places will be filled by very good men and with the proper coaching tile season will be far more successful than this one. Within the past few mcnth:-; R EC.ENT there has seemed to be an epi- COLLEG,E demic of new presidents among PRESIDENTS. the ~colleges for during that tim·3 several have been inaugurated. Some of the men who have been chosen as heade of the several institutions were men wt~o were not much heard of in public life and others were n1en who had previously been jn the public e~;e for sorile time. But they were all c·hosen after due consideration on tile part of the college trus- tees and they have all re·ceived the hearty sup- port of the students to whom they went. They all seem to stand for an advar.ce in education along broad lines and it is hoped that they may fill the positions which they have receivP-d and whi·ch demand so muc\h of them as men. ,··

i' I ,·· 'fHE CONC·ORDIENSTS 9 THE NEW. COLL.EGE .PRESI~DENT'S. 'l,he year nineteen hundred and nine has been an important one for education· in the United States, for during this Ume nine universities be- sides several smaller colle~es have inaugl!lrated new presidents. This signifies that a new gen- eration is coming into tne control of education. A generation whose ideals of a college president are far different than those of a generation ago. 1The head of the college to-day must be not only a good sc.holar and an intelle~~tual leader, but he must also be the possessor t.A executive ability and of qualities that make 'hlm a leader in the world at large. .For proof of this statement we need but investigate tfie charauter of some of the persons who have recently beea ~called as college presidents. At Harvard Dr. Eliot has ~,een succeeded bY President ·L. Abbott Lowell. ·D:r. Lowell, who was born in Boston is a descendan.~ of a family who have long been noted for theil interest in social, business, religious, and intellec .. ual activities. His whole life has been devoted to the practice of law and to educational work, and :t.e is well fitted to shoulder the responsi'bilities co .. 1nected with such a.n institution. s•cientific achievements and his personality, a splendid leader for young m.en; a person who is looked up to with respect and administration. Dr. Maclaurin, wh~ was recently called to the Massachusetts ''TeC:h,\ is a man of exceptional ability, although not yet forty years of age. He is not only a thorough scholar, but a shrewd busi- ness man, and he is already facing .such pro b- lems as the selection of a new site for the insti- tution .and the need of an adequate endowment. In the University of Mtnnesota no one has as yet been .found to carry on· the work recen Uy laid down by President Northrup, who has retired after ·~hirty years of usefulness in the institution. Heartily in sympathy with any new educational rnovement is Dr. M. L. Burton, a young ·clergv- man, who has been chosen as president of Smith College, btlt who will not assume his duties this year, as be intends first spending a year in the study· of educational work in Europe and America. At Colgate Dr. Bryan has ·been installed as the new head of the university, while still more re- cently Wesleyan has inaugurated Dr. William Arnold tSha.nklin, a Methodist clergyman, born i11 Misso1:1ri, as the successor of Dr. Bradford P. Raymond. ~·o\i.hing :.1eed be said about our own president, The following words recently spoken about hiat, give a clear conception of his character, \A citi- zen of the modern world, in sertrch of knowledge, but more in search of wisdom·; teady to follow the light but not to plan without ~1ght; vigorous, ob- Dr. Rich •nond. Tile stand which he takes on every muvement tending to the improvement of educa- tional m·2thods and the uplift of humanity is well known. ·Taken separately, perhaps no one of these men shows a marked advance toward modern and more improved educational methods. But, taken to- gether, they are destined to exert an influence whose l)ower and importance we ~can scarcely servant, tolerant, fearless.\ President Angell of Michigan University, who realize. MRS. ELLERY RETURNED. president may ·be found in Dr. Ernest Fox Niehols, vbsence of several weeks. She was called to her the new head of Dartmouth, and Richard ·C. Mac- home in Newport, Maine, by the illness of her \aurin of the Massachusetts Institute of Techno!- mother, who died a little over a week ago. ThP ogy. President Nichols, while not a clergyman or students wish to extend their sympathy to ~fT.,, at the age of eig.hty has now retired after forty- three years of leadership in. college work, has completed a career of untold usefulness in the 8-tate of Michigan. Dr. Angell's successor nas J)Ot yet been chosen, but whoever- is called to fill the chair will have the opportunitY of making Michi- gan the greatest of all the State universities. Two splendid exam.ples or this new style of Mrs. EHery has returned to the \hill' after ::tn ~ even an A. B. college p;raduate, has become by his Ellery in her .bereavement. f t l .\ ':•

10 rrHE C(>NC·Ol{DlENSlS Triangular Debate, March 4, 1910. This year we are to be in a triangular 'varsity debate with Colgate and Hamilton. Representa- tives of the three colleges :have drawn up sevet·a.l arUcles of agreement which are to govern the conditions and methods of the debate. Following are the articles: Articles of Agreement. Representatives of Hamilton College., of the Colgate DHbating Council and of the Debating Council of Union College, do here by agree to form a triangular Intercollegiate Debatins Leagne, to hold a debate on March 4-, 1910, under the fol- lowing conditions: [. 'The Executive Committee of the League shall consist of three members, one representing 0R,~l.t college in the League, and shall have charge of qu.estions suggested. In e:lete;rmining the question claosen,. the first dhoice shall be counted three points, the- second two po[nts, the third one point. The qaestion thus receiving the greatest num· her of points shall be chosen. In the event of a deadlock, the colleges s·hall take another ballot, to decide between the two questions highest on the list. \r:he Execl!rtive Officer shall in all cases promptly notify the colleges of the results of the balloting. IV. Ti:J.:e college un.der whose auspi·ces each de- bate is held shall have cl1arge of all loc.1l arrange- ments, and shall assume all financial o·bligations thereof, excepting the traveling expenses of the visiting delegation. V. ,Each college s:hall select for each team three representatives and an alternate from its student body, but no one shall be chosen who is not a bona fide undergraduate student and a candi- date for a degree. VI. Each debater shall be allowed two speeches, all matters pertaining to t'he league, subject to one of nine (9) minutes' duration, tile ott.er six t·he provision herein contained. The single offi- ( 6 )-except the closing speakers for each side, cer of the League shall be called an Executive who shall be allowed nine (9) minutes in the Officer, chosen from its membersllip. closir:g speech of the debate. T'he order of the II. 'The League shall hold three debates under speakers shall be as follows: Al, Nl, A2, N2, A3, the following ·plan: All debates stall be held on ~3,-re but\Lal NJ, Al, N2, A2, N3, A3. There the same evening and upon the same questio~, each college being re'Presented by a team main- taining the affirmative and a team maintaining t'he negative. At each debate the .affirmative shall be upheld by the visiti:Ug team. The schedule of the debates shall .be as follows: shall be an intermission of five minutes between the direct and the rebuttal speeches. No notes, or authorities, will be allowed on the platform ex- cept on the rebuttal. VII. Ea<:O. contest shall be judged and decided 1by three judges, who shall be disinterested per- Affirmative. ~egative. sons, not holding a degree from either competing At Hamilton ........... Union ..... Colgate. At Clinton ............ :Colgate ..... Hamilton. At S ct..enectady ......... 'Hamilton ... Union. III. ·The question for debate shall be selected as follows: On or before November 15, each college shall submit to the Executive Officer of the League two formulated questions for llc~ate. The Executive ·Officer shall immediately notify all mem.bers of the Executive Comznittee of all six questions. On or before December 15 each -col- college or connected therewith in any relati'on, and chosen in the following manner: The dis- interested ·college shall select the judges for each debate, viz., Union shall select the judges for the Colgate-Hamilton debate; Colgate for the Union- Hamilton, and Hamil ton for the Colgate-Union. These appointments shall be forwarded to the member of the Executive Committee in each col- lege, and .be held confidentially by him until the time of the debate. lege sball submit to the Executive Officer its or- Y.III. ·The award shall be made on the merits tier of preference or choice as to three of the of the argument as presented .in the debate, and

THE CON·OORDIENSIS 11 not upon the merits of the question. The decis~ ion shall be ann.ounced by one of the ju.dges. SUBJECl'S FOR THE T'R;JANQ,U:LA.R D~EBATE. The subj'ects for i]he triangular de!bate have been handed in to the intercollegiate debating council and the su'bje·ct will be definitely decided upon in a few we·eks. The following subjects were submitted, tbe first two being from Colgate, the second two from Hamilton, and the last two from Union. 1. An independent voter can do more for nnre politics than a party man. '2. t.A. pro rata income tax is the best method of raising public revenue. 3. The U. S. government should establi'3h a Rystem of postal savings banks. 4. The U. S. Senators should be ele-cted by di- rect vote of the people. 15. A graduated income s!honld be a part of our federal system of taxation. •6. The U. S. government should establish a nation::tl 1bank of issue. '1.,he debating council of each college has been asked to suhmit to the inter-collegiate council their first, second and third choice of these sub- jects. The Union council has made the follow- ing choice: First, number five; second, number six, and third, number 3. The Allison-Foote de- bate may be held on ehe same subject that i'3 chosen for the tri-league. ALU~NI. 1851.-A book ·entitled, \New Ideas on 01<1 Sub- jects,\ has recently been given to the college by its author, Jaco·b Wilson, a Union man in the clas~ of 1851. Mr. Wilson has acquired a wide reputa- tion for his literary work, and he is also the author of several other books. 1909.-The college library has just received a book called \Representative College Orations,'' among which is found t'he ·commencement or~­ tion of E. W. K. Mould on \Ethics in American Public Life.\ The book was presented to th·3 library by Mr. Mould, wilo is now an instructor in Mercersburg Academy. The Popular Drug Store Fellows bring their friends to QUINN'S for refreshments when down town. Our Soda Fountain presents a very attrac- tive menu now-a-days. There's- Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea Sandwiches Salads Coffee lee Cream Soda All are extra good and are served in the characteristic Quinn manner WM. H. QUINN Druggist Vendome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre Sts .. SOPHOMORE SOI-REE. President Riley of the Sophomore class has ap- pointed a committee with Westcott as chairman, i o perfect arrangements for a soiree. From pres- (·nt indicatlons it is probably that the event will Le held sometime during the latter part of ,Janu- ary, although: no de~finite plans have been made as yet. T 1 h e committee is as follows: Westcott, chairman; Van Aernam, Slade, Coykendall, Mann, Palmer, .Sawyer, Munson, S. Shepard, Churchill, Lowrie, Ladue, O'Laughlin and Shaw. JUST ACROSS FROM GREEN GATE FINK'S PHARMACY THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP

!I 12 THE OONCORDIENSIS COLLEG·E BHfEFS. ·Ex-President Angell of Michigan receiv·ed from. Dartmouth ilis tenth L:L. D. degree. ·The Greek department of the University of California will present a Greek play next semes- ter. A school for waiters has recently been estab- lished at the University of Chicago. A :a1arried students' club was recently organ- ized at the University of Indiana. Wisconsin is to have a new biological labora · tory. The site has been ·chosen officially. For the iirst time in the history of tt .. e two inBtitutio:.s Syracuse and Colgate are to meet in an intercollegiate debate this year. \The Devil's Own,\ a senior law society, has recently established a chapter at Syracuse. Holy Cross has an enrollment of three hundred R. Jay Knox :has been elected track captain at Hamilton College. Over 600 volumes have been added to the Swedish divi-sion of the University of Minnesota library. One of the new features of the curiculu.:.n at the University of Vermont will be a depart- m.ent of ho:Lne economics. By tho will of .C. C. Gupler, Princeton Univer- sity re·ceives $100,000 now and about $3,000,000 at tf.e death of Mrs. Cupler. The University of Minnesota suspended all classes and anniversary activities during the day of the funeral of Governor Johnson. The University of Pennsylvania had headquar- lers at the Seattle Fair last summer, as a gather- ing place for alumni who visited the Exposition. Professor Charles W. Brown of the department and sixty-three, the largest in its history. of geology at Brown University has received the The University of Illinois recently expelled two appoint;:nent of superintendent of the Rhode sophomores for hazing. Island Natural Resourees Survey. Borrowing money and betting on horseraces, it t.as been discovered, form a considerable part of the industry of undergraduates of Cambridge and Oxford Universities. Tlhe facts have been dis- closed by a case brought under the betting acts, in w:hich Edward Fairfax Studd, Justic-e of the l'eace in County Devon, sued a sporting ''tipster'' for sending his son, a ;ninor, an invitation to gam- ble on the Czarowitz race. The defendant was fined $50 and costs. Mr. Studd told the Masis- trate that thousands of circulars were distributed among undergraduates of Oxford, and Cambridge, some detailing how wealth could be acquired by §.rambling, and others offering loans on promis- t:ory notes without security. Ordinarily u·.Le fast !ife of the universities is confined to the \bloods a small minority of tJhe students, but the co:n- Lination of tips and proffered loans is said to tempt many poorer students to gamble. Andrew Carnegie has presented $30,000 to Illi- nois Wesleyan University to be used toward a new s.cience building. The candidates for basketball at Syracuse Uni· versity have reported and a splendid season is expected. Princeton is to have a vivarium, a building where animal life can be thoroughly studied in all Hs forms. A botanical garden will be connected witlh th·e 'building, and a greenhouse will be t:-rected f<~r use during the winter months and for the propagation of rare and delicate plants. Nearly all of tile lyrics have been chosen for \The Misfit Man,\ the play that the Cornell Masque is going to give this year. Extensive campus improvements are being c!lr- ried on at the University of C::tlifornia. There are in the course of construction a che::nistry build· ing costing $200,000, tbree new tennis courts, an ornamental drinking fountain and a n1emorial gate. A large natural cave. full of stalactites, stalaq- I1ites, and blind fish, has been discovered near tlle grounds cf Indiana University. A wireless telegraph apparatus is to be instal1ed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The botanical department of tile University of ~ebraska has over 200,000 speciments in the her- barium. Captains of all teams at the University of Iowa wnl get a star in addition to their letter. The

rl'HE CONCORDlENSlS 13 nu:;n her of years a man has played will be indi- cated by bands on the arm of his sweater. The new swimming pool at Yale, t!he gift of Andre•w ·Carnegie, has been opened informally for cban.·ce of :meeting the mentbers of the Theta Sig- ma Alumni .Association and of t'he active chapter in Albany. The Albany people are already making arrange- ments for thls affair and the students should sup- the use of the students. IFrom figures co1npiled at the University of port it in every way possible. Michigan it appears that the total enrollment is 4,627 this year.. INTE,RCOLUEGIA1'E. In the literary department of ·Michigan the freshmen are debarred from all college activities. 'Irhe sophomores won the preliminary round of the Harvard interclass shoot recently, defeating the fresilmen by a score of 152 to 143. < One hundred and twenty freshmen have matri· eulated at Colgate this year. The faculty of Ohio Wesleyan has ordered the Glee ·Club not to make any engagements away from the University this year . ... Chancellor Day of Syracuse TI.as put the Uni- versity lband at that place on a solid foundation . hy furnishing partial scholarships for all men holding regular positions. Twenty-three ~en ha,·e been chosen for the positions. ----- WEEKLY CALENDAR. De.:;. 2.-4: 30-Faculty :meeting. 5: DO-Meeting of Concordiensis Board. 5: oo--,Special rehearsal of Glee Club. Dec. 4.----Examinations for conditioned stuuents. Ce~. 5.-5: 00-·Y. 1\tl. C. A. vesper service. Dr. William Adams Brown of Union Seminary, speaker. Cec. 6.-7: oo~Fllilomathean Society. 7: 30-Glee Club rehearsal. Dec. 7.-4: 30-1Baskt:~lb111 practice in Ar:nory. 7: 15-,Bible ClaEs meetings. Hlee Club concert at Albany. De:. 8.-4: 30-Adelphic Society. 7: 30-·Press Club meeting. 7 :30-•:vlandolin Cluib rehearsal. TH E1'A SIGMA TO ENTERT.AJIN AFTER ALBANY CONCERT. Yale ea.sny defeated the Harvard cross-country squad in their annual dual race recently by 15 to 52. Dr. Andrew S. Draper, New York State .commis- sioner of Education, recently spoke to the under- graduates of the University of Iowa. Pennsylvania is said to have more alien stu· dents than any other .American University, hav- ing an enrollment of 2:25 foreigners. 'l'he Stanford Rugby footJball team defeated the Vancouver team of Canada by a score of 55 to 0. It has been figured that 69 per cent. of those whose names appear in c'Who's Who in Americg,\ are college graduates. Since less than one per cent. of the total population go to college it would Eeem that the college graduate's chances of mak- ing a name for himself are 69 to \1.. !Dr. Frank J. 'Sexton, coaclr of the Brown base- lJall team for several years, 'has resigned from the vosition. ·Oberlehrer Dr. Kieryert, of the Oberrealsci:lu1e at Berlin, is in this country for an eighth months' stay for the purpose ()f making a study of Ameri- can educational institutiens. Dr. Kierpert's preg- ence here was secured by the Carnegie Founda- tion. At present Dr. Kierpert is teachin<s in the School of Education of the University of Chicago. The first intercolleg:ia te all-American socc<ar tearn that has ever bBen selected in this country is announced by G. ~wyer, of Columbia, manager of tfie Intercollegiate League. The selectionR were made by Reynold A. Spaeth, of Harvard, for- The Tb eta Sigma Alumni Association of Alb1nY j:: to give an informal reception to the members of the Glee Club and to all students and fri ?nds of Union after the eoneert in the Unitarinn metly president of the Le·ague, and they are based Church on Tuesday, December 7. Tht:' purpose on the playing of tl}e men on the various college 0f the entertainment is to give the student~ a teams in the season w'hich ended last spring.

Juniors! Your Pictures for the Garnet WHJTE. Ofhciai Garnet Photographer 19>03-10 Make arrangements with must be taken This Week PHILIP T. HILL, - College Representative COLLEGE MEETINGS. N-ovember 22, 1909. After Alina Mater had been sung and the frG:-:;h- rnen had come down from the gallery, Pr<~sident Ca vert opened the 1neeting by calling on Prof. Opdyke for a few words on the N. Y. U. game. Leon led a long yell for Prof. Opdyke. He re- sponded by saying that however depressing the g.ame Inight be to a Union man, it \\vas \a vEn·y 1Jlucky fight.\ Moreover, the feel fhat \we're \V. & L. E. ;GURLEY TROY, N. ¥. Civil and Mining Engineers' and La-nd Surveyors' Instruments Also Sci.entific Books Send for Catalogues 1;ractice. Walser said that everyone who could play at all should get out for the h·ockey team. all together,\ was more inspiriting u·!.an even a Potter spoke on the attitude of the Terrace ·victory would have been. Council toward .the Union posters whicl-... many of This was followed by No. 1. for the tean1, lP.il. the men have on their suit cases. by Leon. Charest, as head of the winter cap col'!l- lnittee, asked the student body which of two styles of caps, one seventy--five c·snts and the other cheaper, they wished._ The vote was prae- tically unanimous in favor of the first style. Charest also spoke concerning tbe basketb3ll t:5an1. He said that all who could play at all ~hould come out afl_er Thanksgiving. If there were only five good men and the rest se~ond­ rate, the five could not make a good tea.m. If there were ten first-class men, each 1nan on the team would have to do his best to keep his plac~. Zimmer asked all who wished to try out for as- sistant manager of lb.e basketball tea1n to s~e ltim, after whic'h the 1neeting adjourned. November 29, 1909. The meeting was opened by President Ca vert \fter Alina Mater and \Old Union Beside the Mo~ hawk Vale,\ had been sung. Hutchens led a long yell for Charest. Charest said that it is n0w time to begin basketball practice, which will b8 l1eld on Tuesdays and Thursdays, between 1: 30 ~\nd 5 : 30 in the Armory. A schedule has be:' en ar ranged which gives the team two or three fairly ~'asy ga1nes at the beginning of the season, but the team should be careful not to make the mis- take of thinking them too easy and neglectin?; Faust S\poke of the Glee Club. He said that trips had 'been arranged to Albany and Ballston Spa, and that everyone who wished to go :nust attend every rehearsal. HAN A NS $6.0 0 PATTON & HALL To- Young Man of Taste Are you inter- ested in real fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better for WEAR See our THE URE: ¥IT~ 1106 $4.00 \Unions Headquarters for Styles\

rrHE '0'0NCORDIENSI:S 15 Tb¢ St¢rlin~ Jlrt Sbop · Wants every Union man to caH and see tbceir line of Pictures, Calendars, Cards and Christmas Novelties Never mind whether you wish to buy or not, we,H be glad to see you. 212 Stat¢ Str¢~t • • Picture Framing--- I Did she give you her Photograph? Frame lt! THE GLEASON BOOK CO. The •• Ara-N otch\ makes the •• Belmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perfectly '5c,2/ot25c. Cluett, Peabody &Co. Makers ARROW CUFFS 25 cents a X: dr .. Pass Word-Pschoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Sauer- kraut or Potato Salad NICHOLA US One Block East of Central Station Large, Bright Sample Rooms L. D. Tel. in Every Room. THE \NEW VENDOME\ AMERICAN PLAN FIRST CLASS IN EVERY Pi\RTICULAR NEWLY FURNISHED, RENOVATED and ENLARGED- WM. J. GEASON All Outside Rooms ~ 3. so and up Manager. SchenectadY, N. Y. A. C. SPALDING & BROS. The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throu~thout the world as a are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFlCIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES I F Y 0 U aH tnte;- All College -News Always in The Gazette Guarantee of Quality est ed zn AtkletiJ Sport you should have a copy of the ::,palding Catalogue. It's a complete enc)'Clojedza of Wna•'s New ip. Sport and is sent free on request. A. G. Sp~lding & Bros. BUFFALO SYRACUSE NEW YORK I ~---------------------------------~ ' i' !

1() WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration of ARy Descrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an order placed direct with . will re.ceive every attention afforded by our unexcelled facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Show,er Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouses :md Nurseries: L. D. Pene 1413 N y C A d S S Town of Florida and Hoffman, N.Y. Home 425 • . • : • . rca e, tate t. We Can Fit Your Foot Exactly In Regal QUARTER-Sizes Do you know that Regal Shoes are the only ready .. to .. wear shoes in the world made in quarter ... sizes } In addition to the usual half and full sizes, Regals come in the one-quarter and three ... quarter sizes in between. This means that in REGAL SHOES there are just double the number of sizes found in other shoes. You no longer have to be content with a shoe that is a little too 1 oose or too tight. Come to us and we will give you an exact fit in a Regal quarter-size. If your foot-length is just between the half-sizes of ordinary shoes, Regals are the only ready ... to-wear shoes in which you can a~ecure perfect fit and comfort. We have the exclusive local Regal Agency. $J50 $400 and $500 On Sale On1y HERE ~ 8~ S. L. NUSBAUM, - 271 State Street. Sizes For the best things to eat we go to the Crown Hotel Opp. N. Y: C. Depot Wall and Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY G. A. CASSIDY CO. Pianos, Musical Merchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos ~l~~t:~dstreets, SCHENECTADY The Mohawk Hotel - and Baths Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOODS & MEEHAN Props. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Rooms: $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russian and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. Fir:;t Class Restaurant in Connection. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes. The Right Place to get it is at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just opp. Jay St. Geo. B. Cavanagh 314 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

17 '0\N'T pay more than hall a dollar for a scarf---it isn~t neces- sary, Don't pay less---it isn't safe. Fifty cents &ughf to buy as F ashionahle and Durable a scarf as any man wants on any occasion. It will buy just that if you ask for and get LeMar Cravats, sold everywhere :for Half a Dollar. They're the same scarfs for which you have been paying twenty-five to fifty cent:s more. Eighteen separate processes enter into the making of LeMar Cravats. Thirty-six hands cut, line, sew and shape them. A won- derfully drilled organization creates them in a cravat studio, not a actory; Every part is as carefully made and correctly adjusted as at - watch. That's why LeMar Cravats look aristocratic, knot grace. fully, slip freely and wear ........ wear ......... wear. Stull Bros., State St. Near Clinton, Schenectady, N. Y. Ira _ • • , ~ ...;. ... • • - • _· ~ ~- _ .. ,. ~ 1 : .. .. .. _ \' - r • p Snappy Styles For Young Men '1 I T~e JusT WRIGHT ShoE We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YouNG MEN's SHOES-and no whe e will you find such an array of exclusive styles as we are showing. In our Fall Display you will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the new shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes you' 11 find here, made in styles to please the young men of fashion. Exclusive styles is our hobby ; styles you '11 find in no other store. Convince yourself by a look at our display window!\. Prices from $3 .oo to $7 .oo. l~ .. ---.H U BE R'S, 457 St~te St. 1

: l! ' . :·;. . :·· ·. ·,' j.' '. 1 i: ] . ' \ '·.· 'l;, 1;. 1 :. ' 18 'l'HE CONOORDIENSIS A. R. Z . 1 · t .. a'S o·· ·r·che·st. f .. a.·. furnished music at Union ·Col- leg.e 1905 ''()6 '07 '·08. '09 ' . ) ' ' BEST DANCE. MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-W Only llu Best Se1--vice. .No Better for Concert Office and Res.: 3% Plain St., Albany, N.Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine Metropolitan Service SANDERS The Oldest Optical Establishment in Eastern New York Prescripti-on Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY May be you know us and our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of ,, rfhe Schenectady Clothing Co.\ (Gibson, Walton & iHagadorn, Edison Hotel Building) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of s.erviceable and smart clothes for College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD & HEDEEN Propriet.ors Phones 557 21 Jay Street Wood Bros .... 'Men's Outfitters Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's Kid Gloves Sole Agents for Star Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 STUDENTS We Want Y ou'J Banking Business The Schenectady Trust COmpany 318-320 State St. Home Phone II9I H. R. Phone 1764-W C@npliments of H. S. WEE·KS Artistic Decorator-Oealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall Pa-per, Wood Mantles, Etc. Job Work r.: eatly Done 106 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. GOODMAN Caterer and iil~licatessen f&erves and fJczlls .@ver :~fifty Varieties of flandwicbes 107 ~ay fl:Jtreet Both Phones ••stearns-Faster•' '10 Cotton Fel1 Mattress They measure alnunt up to the $15 Standard! If you wish something that is sanitary, comfortable, altogether good and quite unusttal in its quality and make up, you will not be disappointed in these mattresses. A. Bir.~WN &: SON CO. 30Z·3D4 State Street 7rOW'~t& ;Bto~ Albany's Leading Eye Glass Makers 68 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. ,On.der Kenmore Hotel L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N.Y. Some students work because they have to ; some because they think they ought to; some because they like to. In any case it is easier if they lead the \ELECTRIC LIFE\ SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIETY PRINTING The Evening Star Job Departmen~t \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206

On The Hill Copy1~ga; a;.·c; bv Hart Schaffner & Mar\\ Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Cloths made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaks\ any they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don't all say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-242 STATE ST. THE COL.LEGE CLOTHIER

UNlON COLLEGE pBRf;.·:?y · :. I, ~ THE ~:- • CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXXIII NUMBER 11 DECEMBER 8, 1909. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

: ~ ' ' I ' ~ ·~. t J; .. 1'. . : II.· .... , '! J ; I ! ) :'J i I !···).I !' : . .~ ' . , . . r , ~ t..i .. , 'i' 2 ~L\HE CO·NOORDIENSIS . • • • UNION UNIVERSITY • • •• CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND; D. D~, Chancellor ' UNION COLLEGE, SCH~NE~TADY, N.Y. The ·College offers undergraduate courses as · follows: 1.-cLASSICAL COUIRSE:S-Leading to the De- gree of A. B. A. Greek is required for admission to this COUTSe. B. Greek i·s begun at entrance and· is required for f.our years. 2.---'LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE.-Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. , This Course offers .Latin without Oreek. 3.---,SCIENTIFIC COURSE::_,Leading to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater part of the work of tne la:St two y~ars is elective. 4.-GENERAL EN·GINEERINH OOURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. During th·e third and fourth years two alterna_ tive options· are offered in this Course. Qp.tion A~In which the fundamental princi- ples of advanced te·chnical subjects receive ·emphasis. Option B-In whieh studies are offered· w·hich give a preparatio-n for engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. 5._,GENERAL EN1GINE:ERING ·COURSE, of six years, leading to the degrees of B. E. and Ph.\ B. This Course ·provides college and technical . training ·by corp.:bining Courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANITARY ·E-NGINEERING OOURSE-LieaW. 1ng ·to the. Degree 'Of B. E. 7.~ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING COURSE- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers also graduate cours·es in Engineering of one year's res.idlen.t ·study, as tollow:s·: &.~Graduate Course in ~General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree <>f M. C. E. 9.---JGraduate Course in Electrical Engineering, leading to the I)egree of M. ·E.· E. For catalogue, address FRANK 'COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. There Must Be a Beginning Why not· ,make it now ? .'!1 I l $x.oo will open the account Interest begins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton I DEPAR·TMENT. 0~: MED:ICINE \. ' l • ' ALBANY MJE!DTCAL.COLLEOE-. Instruction by Lectures,· Recitations, Clinics, Laborato-ry Wiork, Practical Demonstrations and Operations. HospHal and ·Labor.atory advantages e~cellent. Catalogues. and circulars containing full informa- tion, sent on application to WiiLLIS G. TUOKER, M. D., Regi·strar, Albany, N. Y. DE;P ARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW! S·CHOO~This d·epartment of the University is located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupi-es a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degr-ee of LL. B. is two years, each year is divid·ed into two semesters. ~· EXPENSES-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other info1'mation, ad- dres·s ALB.ANY LA WI SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMIACY-Exer_ cises held in Albany· M,edical College building. Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of six and one-half month·s e·ach. Fees, eighty dollars per term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, addres.s THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., .Albany, N. Y. Secretary. :C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YA·TES' BOAT HO.U·S·E I . The Largest and Best Equipped in the State · f Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connec- tion with house : : : : : : : : : 29 FRONT STREET, SCHENECTADY l ·' '

, l ·' ' THE OONCOI{D\~NSIS THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N. Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FRED'K W. ROCKWELL f&unday lBv~ning 'iDinn~r Special Orchestral Programme f&upper after the Play Music in Glill begins at 10.30 Dinner Music in Grill Friday and Saturday Evenings Dinner Music iDaily 6. 30 to & .30 o'clock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S EUitOUBJAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway a.nd Maiden Lane GENTLEME'N O~LY ALBANY, N. Y. 250 Rooms LADIES REST'AURAINiT ATTACHEO S.PECIAL NEiW RAT'HSKELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Room Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms WM. H. KEELER, Prop., Annex, 507 and 509 Broadway COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of Caps, ti~wns -and H~~ds To· the American Colleges and U nivetsities from tq~ Atlantic to the. Pac.ific. Class con- tracts a .s.pecialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in ;PURE DRUGS GOiOD CIGARS KODAKS PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYL.ER'S BQ,N BONS and CHOCOLATES Lyon D~ug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 714 Hamilton .Street r 3 McClellan Stree Catering to Ladies and Children Weber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. Taylor, Resident Manager matintt Ev~rv Day Cban\)ing Pr~gram monday and Tbursday WITH Bi~· Extrava\)an~a c~mpany· PRICES-Matinee 10 cents and 25 cents Night, r 5 cents to 50 cen is Daily Matinee for Ladies and Children, ro cents, . reserved any part of the house . - ·sEATS NOW ON SALE 3 ,.: ,

l'HE CONCORDIE'NSlS Student S TU~EN!S :furnis:~ing thei_r own_ roo~s 'Will .be Interested tn our d1splay for thetr especial b'enefit, from whic:h we quote: Strong Iron Couches, $2.7 5 Readlng Tables, $3.50 l:o $1 0 Furniture ComJphte with Mattress, 4.75 Wr.iUng Desks, 3.50 to 24 <\The Wallace Co. ( ' The White,Wav _, - el ,0 NE can be an India~ in Summer with perfect pro- priety but the call of the White Way is now quite imperative. First Ai.ds_ to the . White Man in Society: White Shirts rna~~ in a wh.ite .. ~~nner. Stiff bosoms, pleated and negligee. Other whiteness in Collars, Hand- kerchiefs, Gloves, Dress Ties, etc. We are consistent. We will treat you \white.\' 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse ·Bowling Alley. . . Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this· part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERN·EST I. GATES, Proprietor • Cigarettes Cigars • • FRED THALMAN Caterer for Wedrlings, Recept-ions, Etc. Ice Cream and lce.s constantly on hand .. RES1,A URANJ' 231{ State Street .. . . Both Phones C OLLEGE DAYS is one of the special mountings and folders among the large · va_riety we have, lets show you what we can do 3 f6r you;'· and we wont rob you on the price either.· THE OBENAUS STUDIO 305 STATE STREET LORRAINE BLOCK .. I. I I·: ' ~ I '\

!- I. I .. I. I . '- ' \ .... THE C 0 N C a··R DIE N SIS VOL. XXXIII. UNTON ,C'OLLEGE, DECEMBER 8, 1909 No. 11 .FOOTBALL. The Season-S,quad Statistics. The past football season from the viewpoint of the number ol garnes won was not a succesc;. yet many things about the season were satisfac- tory. The season started off with the loss ~)f Streibert, Starbuck, Walton, Brown, Potter ant! Walser from last year's Varsity team. With tl:e other Varsity men left in college, together witb other material, \ Bill\ IVIurray, the coach, Pllt out a team which fought an up-hill but pluclCI fight all season. Only one game was \\\'OUJ while two were ties, but in spite of this fact, the sta dent body and the team showed their good spirit and foyalty by rnaintaiRing life and enthusiasm throughout the whole season. This fact acts· ~s oil u1:;on the wattrs of discontent caused by d(:'· feat, for while it is doubtless hard to turn out a team that will win consistently, y€t it is ·harder still to turn out a team, which in the face of d~·· feat, will not be a \ ba·d loser.\ Finally. with the n1aterial left in college now, next year's team s11ould prove a success, and wr~ expect that outcome. Following will be founrf statistics of the squad of the 1909 season. Class of 191'0. Nam.e. Position. Weight. Height. Age. Anderson Rt. end ..... 161 6ft. Oin. 21 Dunbar End f t I I I t I I 137 5ft. . 7in. ~3 Hequembourg * Rc half ..... 146 5ft. lOin. 24 Irish* Rt. end ..... 142 5 f'L. 6in. ~·) o) Kriegsman Lt. half ..... 146 5ft. 8in. .23 Shutler* QL;arter I e I I 137 5ft. 5in. 24: Stewart* Full t • I • t e I I 160 6ft. Oin. 23 Vedder* Centre 190 5ft 11in. •)') 1 e I I I I ~ -' Class of 1911. Atkin Guard I e I I I • 164 5ft. 9in. ~1 Brown* Tackle-half .. 182 5ft. Sin. 21 Houk Guard . . . . . . 169 5ft 9in. 22 Micl{s* Guard-full . . 164 6ft. Oin. 20 Miller End I e I I I I I I 131 5ft. 6in. 2:2 O'Connell* Guard ' ..... 183 6ft. Oin. 22 Fairbairn* Riley, J. E. Sellnow* Smith Dewey Kitts on Stewart, J. Class of 1912. Quarter .... -128 Qnarter 115 Tackle ..... 177 Full . . . . .... 174 Class of 1913. Half ........ 142 ~nJ ........ 145 Ta-ckle . . . . . 160 5ft. 6in. 5ft. 3in. 20 5ft. lOin. 2'J 5ft. 11iri. ~0 5ft. 9in. . 5ft. 6in. 5ft. 11in. *Men w:b.o have been a warded the \ U \ for tt1 ': 190·9 season. 'FOOTBALL AWARDS. At a meeting -of the Award Co.nmittee last Monday the football a wards were made for t1·1e past season. Fewer \U's\ were given this sea- son than usual, t:he committee thinking that in the past this gridiron honor has ~been too easil v attained. The following awards were made: \U:\ Vedder, O'Connell, Sllntler, Sellnow, Hequembourg, Micks, Brown, Irish, Fairbairn, H. Stewart, Riley. (law. school.) \aUa:\ H·ouk, Kriegsmann, Dewey, Dunbar, Atkin, Anderson, S:nith, ·Miller, Trapp. \U\ second: Mann, J. Stewart, Webb, Riley, '12; Kittson, Dillinger, Robinson, Lowrie. TWO ALUMNI RE-UNIONS THIS WEEK. ·Last Monday evening \Prexy\ Richmond was among the guests of honor at the re-union of the llnion Alumni of Buffalo. Ex-president Dr. A. V. V. Raymond was also an1ong those present. On Thursday evening of this weE'k th·2 ~'='\Y York Alumni are to hold their annual re-union at the lVI:anhattan Hotel. \Prexy who is to be present, will also be one. of :the spe.akers. It is expected that Dean Ripton will .also. ,be. present. ~ Songs and ;:nusic for the occasion will. be fur- Iiished by the Alumni Glee Club.

THE CONCORDIE:NSIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE. D·ecember 16.;22, Inclusive. The following is the schedule for the final ex· aminations for the Fall Term, to be held from December 16 to December .22, inclusive. The ex- aminations hagin on Thursday and end on the following Wednesday: Thursday, 9 a. m.-De-cember 16. Senior Latin . ., Logic. 'J English History. Theory of Equations. iSolid Geometry. Technical Literature. Direct Current Circuits. Senior Law. So ph~. Engineering C'.hemistry. Engineering Alg·e;bra. Thursday, 1 :30 p. m. Spanish (b) History of Education. ~soph. Academic English. Physiology. Electrical Design. Thursday, 3:30 p. m. Advanced Argumentation. Spanish (a) Friday, 9 a. m.-Decembe,r 17. Qualitative Analysis~/ Quantitativ·e Analysis. English Poetry. Junior Greek (A) Fresh. Intermediate French. Senior Seminar. Motors. Mechanics. Friday, 1:30 p. m. Medieval History. ·Hygiene. Fresh. <Greek (B) Algebra (B. IS.) Senior E. E. Th·esis. Junior E. E. Laboratory. Fresh. Drawing. Fr1day, 3: 30 p. m. Junior French. Saturday, 9 a. m.-December 18. Shakespeare. Argumen. taUon. E.U:e.m. German (a) Sop h. Greek (iB) Fres'h. Intermediate German. rran.smi,ssion. . Juni:or E. E. Mathematics. Stresses. Roads and Pavements. Soph. B. E. Physics. Monday, 9 a. m.--~December 20. Advanced Psychology. Juni,or Acad. American History: SoUd Analytics. .Soph. Latin. Fresh. R·:hetoric. Alternating Current Cir·cuits. Junior E. E. Applied Mechanics. Architecture. Topographical Surveying. S oph. B. E. Calculus. Monday, 1:30 p. m. European History. Differential lDquations. Junior English.\ Sop1. Irtermedtate French. Fresh. Greek (A) Senior E .. E. Laboratory. Monday, 3: 30 p. m. Senior Ge~man. Tuesday, 9 a. m.-·December 21. Economics. .T unior Latin. Soph. Acad. Physi-cs. Ele:n. French (a) Elem. French Junior Eng. Ameri·can History. Sop'h. B. E. English~. Tuesday, 1:30 p·. m. History of Philosophy. General Chemistry. Integral 1Calculus. ISoph. Greek (A.) Economic ~Geology. Junior Seminar.

- ' = ·~ - -. . - - - - ---. Tuesday, 3:.30 .P· tn. . Senior Greek (B) and many others, Justly famous in the history of that period . •-,\-\'\'\' .. \'• \ I .f unior German. W:edn.esday, 9 a .. m.-December 22. C0nparative Politics. Junior Gr·eek '(B) Bto[ogy. E}]em.. German. Tifl.erm.o Dynamics. Hydraulics. Ra.i1road Construction. Ju11ior B. E. Mechanics. \Ned 11:esday, 1:30 p._ m. Senior Greek (A) ·Ge0logy. 1Soph. Intermed:ia te Oer:;nan. Fresh. Latin. Wed t:~esday, 3:30 .p. m. Senlor Frencll. - · '' T'HE RETROSPECTIONS OF A1N• ACTIVS Ll FE.\ John Bigeto~w, U nron, '35, Author. An. important literary work has recently been lDubJish.Ed, The Retrospections of an Active Lifd written by John Bigelo·w, one of Union's oldes~ li-ving; alu1nni. Mr. Bigelow was a member cf t~J.e class of 1835. The work consistt~ of thr~t~ rolumes, and contains many _portraits, togeth~r v, itll a map and appendix. It cov~rs tb(> first fif1:Y y-ears ()f Mr. Big€low's life, from his birth, tn 1817, to the end of his diplomatic service,· whe11 he resigned as united States Mini-ster to Franc·~. in 1866. Th.e latter part of the work is the more inte!·, estiRg and important, as it deals wit1l the War of the Re'bellion, and with the question of tt:(~ Mexican BJ.mpire, both of_ which are v1ewed fro In a di:plomatic stand:point, and with a keen insight into the diplomatic relations of the United State~ -with. France. .A part of his n1emories are taken up with lPt· ters which Mr. B1g·elow received from sympathiz- €rs with the Union Cause, particularly from those in England. .Among his American correspond- ents are William H. Seward, another Union grad- uate, Thurlow 'W1eed, ·Charles Sum.ner, John Hay, ... ~lthou;gh. ti!_e gri~t~~::~P~r.t of th~~ work con· cerns . the relati9ns of this country with Franc·J, much attention is given to local affairs in France, such as elections Jand the relation of France to the Papacy. The part which Mr. Bigelow played in tt:.~ Mexican complication was an important one, in- deed; and its su.ccessful termination was in no small nart due to his eftorts. It was in connee· . . tion with this affair that he received from lVlr. . . Seward t'he longest cable-message that had been sent at tilat time, and that caused such a commo- tion among the diplomats in Paris. , By ~o, m~ans least important is that part of this work which tells of important statesmen ot the time, and of tt;~ impression they n1ade upon him. Particularly striking and interesting an~ his d·escrlptions of the· E.mperor Napoleon III and. of the Em.press Eugenie. As for Gladstone, Mr. Bigelow was . not greatly impressed by him, and he never approved of the policies and methods of the great E·nglish statesman. His recollections of Thackeray, and of Dumas are interesting, the vein being somewhat lig'hter than in his other descriptions. A fact which adds greatly to the interest of the book is that there is in it a great deal of hi~ tory w'hich has heretofore been untouched. Mr. Bigelow is able to relate thi.s, because of his per- sonal knowleJge of the fa·cts, as Unjted Stateq Minister to France. As said before, these three volumes cover fulLY the first fifty years of the life of Mr. Bigelow. Concerning his later career, the assurance is giY· en in the \ Prelude\ that more volumes nre to follow. T:he first and second basketball teams of Prince- ton are having d~ily clashes. Two of the professors of Massachusetts Insti- tute of Technology have perfected an apparatu~ which will indicate the depth of well borings . Since intercollegiate basketball has been abol- ished at Hamilton they are to have this winter a series of Interfraternity and Interclass games. A loving cup will- be· a warded to the winning team of the Interfraternity series. .·• . '

1 <;~ l l I I I 8 't'llE CONUOl{DlEN~l~· The Concordiensis A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, H. G. Van Deusen, '10, Phi Delta Theta House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, T. D. Walser, '10~ BUSINESS .MANAGER., A. R. Chaffee, 'Hl, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIATE EDITORS, .J. Beakley, '11. W. D. ·Cavert, '11. REPORTORIAL STAFF, I .I T C '13 J. H. Potter, '12. . . ase, . R. p. Patterson, '12 H. A. Schermerhorn, '12. COLLEGE DIREC'.rORY. l1'oothall ..... Basliethall. . . . i .r. <i. Charest, '10 .............. Captain .J. ~imnwr. '10 ................ Manager 1 A. H.. Dennis, '10 ............... Captain 'r .. ack ....... . I I. H. Hroyer, '10 ....... · ....... Manager { l I. P. Rtewart, '10 .............. Captain Baselmll ..•.• ~- K. IlydP, '10 ................ Manager i ~. :\I. Ca vert, '10 ............. President Y. M. C. A .. ·· S .r. H. Potter, '12....... . . . . . . . ecretary Honor Court Terrace Council j T. I>. 'ValRPl', '10 .............. President ( '\V. D. Cavert, '11. ......•...... Secretary { H. :\1. CaYert. '10 .............. President II. II. Grover, '10 ............. Secretary :\lusical Clubs Glee, 0. A. Faust, '11 .....•....... Leader { (;, E. Smith, '10 ............... Manager :\lnmlolin, N. W. Slutter, '10 .... Leader Coucordiensis j H. fL Van Deusen, '10 .......... Editor ( A. H. Chaffee, '10 .............. Manager i 1911 Garnet .• .J. Beakley, '11 .......... Editor-in-Chief T. l\L Townsend, '11. ........ Bus. Mgr. 1 A. g, Kriegsman, '10 .......•.. President Press Club. . . . s t I I. N. Trumbull, '12 ........... ecre ary TERMS: OnP ~nhscription .................. · ... · ·. · · · · · · · · .$2.00 Ringle .Copies ................................. 10 Cents. l'ul>lication Office, Schenectady Evening Star. At the last meeting of the Athleti~ HOCKEY. Board Hockey was formally recog- nized as an Inter,collegiatE- · sport ~tt Union although the financial support of the board was not s·ecured. This is the first year that Hockey has thus been recognizeJ and plans are now being ma'de to arrange a schedule that will include several games with colleges both here and away from home. There is much gooJ ma- terial in college for such a team and the sport s'hould receive the hearty support of all men in college, as far as possible. It will be anot.h er means of getting into athletic relations with other colleges and will be a very good thing. The basketball men are out B.A~SKETBALL. daily pra·cticing and are putting in some good hard work pre- paring for tThe first game. This year there is 2n abundance of material with which to work ant~ several of tl1e men are showing up well. We ha:v~ not been very su·ccessful in ba~lietball previously. ·but it is expected that a good strong team· will be put out this year. The first two games of the- season are to be playe'd here in the Armory where the men are now practicing twice a week. It is time for us to begin to think of attending all of the home games and showing the team that we are behind them all the time, just as we did with the football tea:tn. It is suc'h support that makes a great difference in the way we succeed in athletics, so, if we want to see our team win we will get out eV.ery time and helJ:. the tea1n along with our presence. EXAM. SiCHEDULE. Elsewh•ere in the issue will be found a full and ·complete sched- ule of the final exams which are to be held from Dec. 16~22, inclu- sive. Specjal care has been taken to make tlH.ll- sche'dule entirely correct so that it can be relieri upon and it has been put into a form that wiH enable everyone to find out readily when all or his exams come. It 1s hoped that this will be of coJ).siderable help to all.

I Tll~· UONCOl{DlENSIS C.ON1CERTS IN THE C·H APE.L. Through the influence of Dr. Richmond a series of thr~'·e musical concerts has been ar ranged for .the coming winter. They will be held in the c·hapel and the rat8s for students have been reduced so that many may be able to attend them all. Because of th t) fact that Dr. Riehmond was instrumental in s~\\· curing the different musicians it is certain tba t their work will be first class, and so a particular adv~antage has 'been afforded the men in college. They all need the support of the men and it is hoped by the musical 1nanagement that many will avail themselves of the opportunity of hear· ing these musical concerts, which will indeed b~ treats. Within a v·ery short time the ·commit~e.e CLA.S.S· appointed to make arrangements for CAPS. the purchase of class caps, will have decided upon the designs to be worn bY each class and will be ready to order for all men in college. This is an excellent scheme and one that should be helped along by all the men. : t can be made a success only by everyone securing one of these caps and wearing it during t'he whole winter, both on the campus and 1n the city. A very good quality -cap will be secured for a very reasonable price, so that a chance will 'be given to each to buy a cap within his means. The com- mittee is very desirous of making arrangements satisfactory to all, and so, when they have finally decided upon t'lie designs, everyone will do the committee a favor by s·eeing that he orders hl.:3 cap as soon as possible, thus making it possible to have them in a short time. The awards committee has made FOOTB.A1LL the awards for the football season AWA.RDIS. of 1909. The committee adopte1 a new plan of a wardinE?- the \ U \ this year and were very successful in making the awards. The members of the committee thought. and rightly, too, that heretofore it had been too easy for a man to se-cure his \U and that many men 'had been awarded the \U\ who did not 'de· s·erve it. This condition naturally decreased tlle honor -connected with wearing the \ U \ and the committee thought it time to somehow raise the standard by which such awards were made. As a result of this conclusion on their part, the~ was g1ven o me:n w o, 1n t e minds ot \'U\ . t h . h those on the committee, had really. earned it be- cause of both th€lr ability and· their faithfulnefl:=:; during the whole seas-on. The committee is le> he commended upon their new attitude and the awards show that they were a·ctually made upon such a basis. It is a scheme which we hOpe will be hereafter applied to all branches of a tll letics at Union. It will result in developing bet- ter material and in attaching greater honor to the wearing of the \ U.\ It seems well that a few words b€ ORD1ER IN said here jn regard to the conduc1.: CHAPEL. in chapel mornings during the exers· cises. For some time past many of the men have persisted in talking· and making other noises that have disturbed the exercises very much. It comes down to the simple matter of showing a due amount of respect and courtesy to the men who are in charge of the servi-ces. If we must converse let us do it in a way that will not disturb, but let us desist as far as possible from all conversation while the exercises are in progress. We think it is mostly due to thought· less·ness, so this is merely to call our attentiC>rt to the matter. COLLEOE MEETING. o~ecember, 1909. President Cavert called the meeting to or<h:r aJfter the singing of ~'Alma Mater \ and '~ V\Te .Score.\ Hutchens led a long yell for Charest. Charest urged all who could play basketball to come out, and said that the prospects are good for a first class tean1.. He also announced, as chairman of the ·ca:p committee, that the -ca:ps would soon be decided upon. Hutchens warned the Fres'hmen against laxitY in the wearing of the regulation caps. Manager Sn1ith announced the concerts to ue given in the college chapel in the spring, a de- scription of which is found elsewhere in tllis issue. A 79 year old :JITas'hman woman has matri- culated at Ohio State University. I , ''l '·] ,.'-!

·. ~~ I ' .. i 10 rl,HE C-<JNCOltDIENSI8 SELF HELP AT UNI.ON COLl·EGE- ------ As· Seen by a Student Observer. It is so:neHmes thought that a college i~ a place where young men go to spend their father's 1noney and lead lives of ease and idlf\ness. While this may sometimes be the ease, the criticism does not hold good at Union College. Union has, .of course, her share of students who come froa1 'homes of comparative wealth, but these men arr~ not found spending their time in idleness or devoting their whole energy to sport. On. the other hand, a large percentage of h.er stu- d~nts ar~ young men of limited means, who work their own. way through college, wholly or in p1rt. At Union the men of limited means and the sons from wealthy homes become infused wit'h the democratic spirit and feel that they are on the same footing, for Union, tllough old and rich in traditions, ·is ess·entially a democratic college. ·::.Jo stigma rests on the man who works his way; on the contrary, the student body h::ts the htg11est respect for t'hose who are energetic ~:.::::ough and ambitious enough to desire a college education and. to strive for it even against heavy odds. Of the to tal number of students, between 1 0 tind 15 pGr cent. go through college practically on tll.eir own resources. Besides these, there are many others who defray a part of their expenses, while a large majority engage in some form of remunerative work during the summer. In rnany cases. it .is not becauEe the man is obliged to work 1n ·order to keep up his colle?,·e career, but be cans~ he prefers to- do somet'hing for himself rather than to have those at home bear the entire ex- pense. T:he lines of work followed by such a student are various and n1ake up a business world in miniature. A striking instance is that of a graduate in tr.e class of 1909 who paid his way througr~ college entirely by his own efforts, and that without tak- ing up ·anything not directly connected wi t.h his college work. During his college course this :nan won nearly $800 in scholarships and pri.zes, was assistan.t to t:he college librarian, and was co11· sidered by the faculty one of the most capable tutors on the ''hill.\ At the close of his college course, aftt?r defray ing all of .his graduation·: expenses, he was ahead financially. At present he is filling an excellent position as instructor in mathematics and Latin ln. a well known college preparatory school. Another noteworthy case is that of a graduat::~ of a few years ago who earned all b. is expen se.s by his work in music, as teacher, conductor, or- ganizer, and assistant in piano houses. Witr.: the surplus of his earnings in this way and the sav- )ngs from a successful two years' service in one of our Spanish possessions, he is now studying in a leading eastern law school, with money E:nough ahead for his entire course. 'rile above two cases are exceptional, lout not unparallelled. A more co1nmon one is that of a n1ember of the class of 1910. Entering .collPge with only :money enougb. to pay his first term's bills, he had a surplus of $100 over all expenses at the end of his freshman year. While not S') strikingly su·ccessful in the ot'her years of his cours·e, and sometimes hard pushed, this young n1an has, nevertheless, by his own efforts, been able to meet all his needs and graduates free 0f deht. In some ways this case is more notewortt... v than the first two as those were in the academic coQrses, where scholarships are available, while this man had to pay tuition as well as other . clui.Tges, being in the engineering course. It 1s also illustrative of the opportunities for earning money open to engineering students from aln1ost the. outset of their work. 1Men with special training in any line of wo-rk can usually find opportunity to put their abiliti<='~ to profitable use. Telegraphy, accounting, type- writing, nevvspaper correspondence and reporting, editing and public reciting are among the special •· occupations by which Union students have helned themselves in earning their way. Men without special previous training also find abundant ways of filling in any spare time they raay be able to save from their regular dutie9. T':he college itself offers the student many 01)- v·ortunities for earning money. The care of the recitation rooms and some of the buildings is in large part entrusted to students. The positions

UNlON COLLEGE L\BP. '\fHE CON'C()RDIENSIS 11 ~~==========================~== of assistant librarian and of assistant in the chemical laboratory are fill\ed by students. Two men. reeedve their tui tio11 in retl:lrn for ringing the bella at the end of the recitation periods. The athletic 'board hires each year a nas·seur for the athletic teams. · Tllis position is also filled by a stud:ent. The twt:oring of students wr ... o fail to l)a~B l!lP their college work is a com.mon source of ine()me and there are usually some ten. memberR of the upper classes- who are approved as tutors by the faculty. These :men are frequently called upon to give their assistance to those who for one reason or another are behind in their stuates. Niany stu.dents find work ol!ltside the college w'11ich yields good returns. Schenectady offers unsual advantages in this respect, and the C'ollege endeavors in every way possible to aid the stu- Gents in securing positions and has an employ- ment committee which is -often of great assist· ance, especially to members of the entering class w:ho are not acquainted with the city. Many ob- tain employment in the down town stores on Friday afternoons · and Saturdays, and there is hardly a shoe store or cloth.ing house in the ·citY ' ' that has not at some time employed a student salesman. The restaurants and boardi11g houses 111 the city are also a source of help _to many, and go-od board is earned in return for work as waiter. Oftentimes roo:ns are to be had in return for tending a furnace or doing other light work. A not unusual source of income for qualiflerl m-eri is offered by th·e Schene·ctady Railway Co-ril- vany, and positions as conductor and in oth~r eapacities are often available for· evenings and unoccupied after.noons. This work is son1etim ?s continued througli the sum:ner. During the long vacation many students are regularly employed in the various departments of the General Electric Works. This is an t?SDG- cially desirable opportunity because of the valu- able experience gained from the work and bP- cause of the comparatively high rate of pecunbry remuneration. rrhe nigb.t schools of tr1e city· offer attractive working during the winter, giving valuaJble 8X· r:erience in teaching. Students are son1etimes The Popula.r Dr:ug Sto.re Feltows bring their friends to QUINN'S for refreshments when down town. Our Soda Fountain presents a very attrac- tive menu now-a-days. There's-· Sandwiches Salads Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea lee Cream Coffee Soda A 11 are extra good and are served in the characteristic Quinn .manner WM. H. QUIN· N Drugg~·st Vendome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre Sts. engaged in this work during the entire winter. Occasionally substitute work and half-day posi- tions can be had in the day schools. In the fall of 1909, a considerable part of the work of taking ti1e school census of·· Schenectady was done by Union College students. Frequently students taken the agency of son1e commercial house which deals iri articles which can be handled on co::nmission. Others de31 [ CONTINUF.D ON PAGE 14] JUST ACROSS FROM. GREEN GATE FINK'-S PHARMACY THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP ;..; \' '

12 TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS UNION COLLiEGE DINN'ER. -·-· -· -·- N1ew York City, ·Thursday ·Evenin,g· 1 Dec. 9, 1909. .. Tbe. Union College Alumni of New York City will hold their 22nd annual Reunion and Ban quet at H~te~ :Manhattan, on the evening of D~~­ cember 9th. An unusually large attendance 1~ expected for the reason that the Alumni wHl have as their guest for the first time Union's new President, the Rev. ·Charles Alexander Rlch- mond, D. D.,, who was inaugurated Chancellor of Union ·universtity at the ·Commencement last June. The Bon. FreJerich vV. Seward of t'he Cla\s of '49, who is President of the Alumni Associa- tion, will preside. . Among the other distinguished speakers wttl be the two former Presidents of Union Univer· sity, Rev. Andrew V. V. Raymond, D. D., of Buffalo, and Rev. George Alexander, D. D., of New York City. Also Hon. Joseph E. Ransdell. Member of Congress and President of the Na- tional Rivers and Harbors Congress, and Benja- min H. Ripton, Dean of the University, and Prof. Ashmore w'ill be present. Many ot'her distinguished guests who are not graduates of the College are expected. Th-3 Alumni ·Glee Club will be present to furnish music and songs for the occasion. The younger Alumni of the College are always welcome to this dinner and are especially urged to attend if possible. A good bunch of the mon recently from college are to be seated at one table and they will undoubtedly make things lively. ATHLETIC B;OARD M:EETING. The Athletic Board held a meeting on Monday evening, December 6, in .Silliman Hall, to con· sicler the advisabHi ty of taking up Hockey as an Inter-Collegiate s:port. The matter was discussed in all its phases and .finally the following ar- rangements were agre,ed upon. T. D. Walser as manager, was authorized to draw up ,a sc'hedule for a regular College Hockey Team on the c-ondi- tion that fifty dollars could be raised in volun- tary subscriptions from among the students and friends of Union. This money is to be refunded to thos·e subscribing if at the end of the season the management is fifty ·dollars ahead, and if it i~ more than fifty d·Ollars a:tead, the amount o;er fifty dollars shall be deposited for next year's team. This .financial arrangement was made for it was considered impracticable and in- advisable to levy another regular tax for athleticq upon the students. T'he present arrangement wilT allow the management to charge the students for admittance to all home games, and it is sin· cerely hoped that not only those especially inter- ested in Hockey, 1 but the whole student body will support the first regular Hockey Team tnat Union has ever had. AMERICAN CHEMIICAol. S·OCIETY MEETING. Dr. Ellery to Speak . At Boston, fron1 December 27-29, will be held the regular annual meeting of the American Chemical Society. This society includes about five thousand chemists from all over this coun- try. It's sphere is divided into several different divisions; one for organic chemistry, one for iP- dustral chemjstry and one for chemical education. Dr; Ellery, hea·d of the chemical department at Union, will be present and speak before the lat- ter division, that for ·chemical educ~tion. Thn subjec! of his address is, \Use of Quantitative Experiments in General Chemistry.\ The work in the chemical department here i~ somewhat unique, in that all of the laboratory work in the first year consists in quantitativt:-: experiments. This fact has attracted consider- able attention among· teachers in chemistry and because of this method, Dr!. EHery has been in- vited to deliver this address. The chemical laboratory has recently been ver~~ well equipped by the addition of balances an1 other necessary instruments which are as a·ccur- ate and of as good quality as those of any la b•) · ratory. So, at prE'sent, one is able to ~al{e ~ four-year cours·e in chemistry 'here that will fit him to secare a position in any experimentat: laboratory in the country. Mr. and Mrs. William B. Neilson, Jr., have taken up their abode on Union 'Street. Ev-eryone is ·Cordially invited to visit tbem in their new home.

CAL:ENDAR FOR THE WEEK. 'Dec. 9-4: 30-Basketball Practice in .Armory. 4: 30--Faculty Meeting. -. 5: 00--Concordiensis Board Meeting. 1.3 · Dr. Brown, in taking HP this su bj.ect, said that he. spoke· not so much to- persuade men to enter die mini.stry, as to explain the duties of the min-' ister ana how other :persons should aid ilim in 7: 00-Annual Dinner of the Union Col- bis work. After stating the duty of a minist0!' lege Alumni Association of. _New York-Hotel 'Manhattan, N. Y. Dec. 10-7:00-\1Philomathean Society try-outs for Allison-Foote debate. 8: 00-Concert by Union College Musical ClUJbs in Ballston Spa. Dec. 11-6: 30-Banquet of Missionary Confer- ence in Armory-Stl:\dents to waU on tables; Glee Clu,b to sing. Dec. 12-5:00-Regular Sunday afternoon Ves- pers; Henry Wymans speaker; \The College Law,\ subject. Jessup, lv.Ian in Dec. 13-12:00-Weekly College meeting. 2: 00~5: 00---Ex·cuse Committee to re· ceive applications. 7 :00-Philomathean Society Meeting. 7: 30--~Glee Club rehearsal. Dec. 14-4: 30--1Basketball practice in Ar:nory. 7: 15-~Bible .Study classes-·Seniors with Dr. Ho:trman; Freshmen with Dr. Richmond. D·ec. 15-4: 30-Adelphic Society Meeting. 7: 30-Mandolin Club rehearsal. Dec. 16-22, inclusive, final examinations. -------- NEW·S FROM THE CHRISTIAN A·SQC.JATION. Henry Jessup of New York to Speak. IN ext Sunday afternoon at the regular vesper service the speaker will be Henry Wymans Jessup, one -of the leading lawyers in New York City. He is to speak on a subject that will un- doubtedly be of interest to a large number of stu- dents, \The College Man in the ,Legal Profession.\ Mr. Jessup is a .Princeton graduate and a college friend of \Prexy'· Ri·chmond. Last Sunday afternoon was held one of the best attended services -of the y·e,ar, when Dr. Williaat Adams ~Brown, Roosevelt professor of systematic theology at the Union Thelogi-cal Seminary in New York City, spoke on the \·Function of the Minister in the 'Modern World.' as the .fitting of men for Christian service throw?;h the forma 'Lion and development_ of character, he took up the three thi:ngs involved in this duty: 'To show men what the end of Christian service really is; to persuade them. to accept that end as their own; and to train men in the practical ap- plications of ·Christian principles to life. The Senior ·Bible Class, with Dr. Hoffi:nan, and t:h e Freshman ·Class, witlT \Prexy\ Richmond, both met as usual on Tuesday evening. · Owing to the fact that Dr. Adams had another eng!lge- m.ent, the Junior and Sophomore q1asses will .. neet this week on Friday evening instead of Tuesday. SUBJ E·CT CHO,SEN FO'R TRI-LEAGUE D·EBATE The smbject for the triangular deb:.:tte between Union, Hamilton and Colgate, which is to be held ~~n March 4, has now been definitely chosen. It reads as follows: Resolved, That a graduated income tax silould be made a pari:. of our federal system of taxation. According to the terms -of the agr·eement, each college will prepare two teams on the sa.ne quf:\s- .tion. Thus, on the same evening, Union. will send one team to de bate Colgate on the affirma- tiv siae of the question, while another team will rema.in at home and debate with 1 Ha:nilton on the .negative side, in tP,e College Chapel. The men for tne inter-collegiate team will not be chosen until after the Allison-Foote debate which will probably take place -on January 14. Although Union lo·st two of her best debaters by .graduation last spri-ng, there is still plenty of good material in college, and there is no reason why Union should not maintain the enviable reputation in inter-coBegiate debating which she has acquired during. the last two years. -- The art supplement of last Saturday's Troy ~ Times contains a picture of t'he Senior Class of Union ~.College. ,. _,. ',1 F_; t'i 1 1· __ ;._: :} .. I. i_:. I'' 1- ,. \,· I t r I I I I· r r t' I I \ I ! ! l I I I· t· I I '

<·!' ,hI ,• Juniors! , your ;P_i~. tur:es W·· :.··. · H:. .1· :rE· · ' ~ ' ',. .. . ' . .. . . ,. . ' for the Garn:et ' :~ .. · ... , ' : · · · OHicial Garn~t. _Photographer . 1903-10 .. ~ ... 1.. • . Make arrangeme~t;· with .. . ., ••• t ~ ~ ~.,. This Week PHILlP T. HILL, College Representative ' . [CONC.LUDED FROM· PAGE il] t:ithe·r on co-mmission or· independe:r;rt1y in variO·US ~ oods' 1.1sed by their fellow stu.de:p.ts, such as ban- ners, statio.nery, .phQtographs, calendar, view po-:;t ear:d$, eiiJblems, 1 cla~s ·pins, etc.~ etc. Example·s · could b-e multiplied in.depinitely for illen wlho, Uke the three first mentioned, havf!' ~:·arned · th·eir way entirely, down til.rough the eases of those who earn portions of tl1eir neees· sary outla,y in sums ·varying from the smallest to -:ery conside:rable amounts. ·Wher~ there is a will there is usually a way, and it is but rarely th3.t the man who will work. is .unable to take his co1- lege course suc,cessfully. THREE MUSICAL CONCERTS. To Be Given In the Chapel President ·Ricllmon'd has announce(! a course of three notable musical -concerts to be giv{~n in the college chapel. On January seventeentl1 Mme. Larmar, the famous ·pianist, will give the concert; on F'ebruary fourth, Mr. George Hamlin, teno_r, and on March fourth, the Flonzaley String Quartett, probably the fin~st in the v.rorld. Th8 }Jrice 9f tickets for these .concerts is five doilarG for the course, or two dollars for a sin'2le cancer:. . - The special price for students is one-half the regula.r price. The tickets will 'be procura bl ,~ from Carson E. Smith, '10, and Otto A. Faust, '11. Dr. Ric'hmond has been very fortunatf.~ ; n . being able to procure the services ()f these mn- sicians, who are leaders in their pr()fession, an:J every student should avail himself o1 the oppor- tunity of hearing them. The third rail is fast being installed in tli:e ·walk from the Blue {}ate along South College.· It is reported that one night recently one· of our· staid Prof.essors ·accidently got into tlie ditch wbich was meant for bricks, but no damage was done. . - TROY, N.Y. Civil and Mining Engineers' and Lati.d Surveyors·' Instruments Also Scientific Books Send for Catalogues Prof. Garis, ·during the absence of Mrs. Garis, is .s·laying with Dr. M0Comber. Tbey are verv }Jeaceable at all. times, too. ~Dr. ~llery, Prof. _Stollar and Prof. Cunningt.am lla ve been elected delegates from Union to attend tho National convention of Sigma Xi, w'hich is to ·~b·3 held in Boston during the holidays. The attendance of the faculty in chap·el wa>J - very good on ¥onday, but it is evident thqt Reveral of the mem!bers are liable to get condi- tions if they do not report :;nore regularly. HANA·N·s $ s. o· o· ' Tn- Young M.en o.f Taste •, Are you inter- ested in real fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better f o r WEAR See our THE .. URE: .. ; ¥1T~- 1106 $4.09 PATTON & ·HALL \Unions Headquarters · forSiyles.. ·

THE !C:ONUOl{DlENSlS Tb~ St~rUng Jlrt Sbop Wants every Union man to 'Call ::tnd see their line of Pictures, Calendars, Cards and Christmas· Novelties Never mind whether you wish: to.buyor not, we'll be glad to see you. • • S~btnt(lildY. D. ·\'. . . Picture Framing--- Did she give you her Photograph? Frame It! THE GLEASON BOOK CO. The \Ara-Notch\ makes the ••Belmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perfectly f5c,2/ot25 c. Cluett, Peabody & Co. 1\iake11 ARROW CUFFS 25 cents a r. tit All College News Always in The Gazette Pass Word--Pschoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Sauer- kraut or Potato Salad NICHOLAUS --------~--- -- -------~-------- > - ----~------ One Block East of Central Station L. D. Tel. in Every Room. Large, Bright Sample Rooms THE \NEW VENDOME\ AMERICAN PLAN FIRST CLASS IN EVERY PARTICULAR NEWLY FURNISHED, RENOVATED and ENLARGED- All 0 u tside Rooms WM. J. GEASON ~ 3 .50 and up Manager. Schenectady. N. Y. A. C. SPALDING & BROS. The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES IF You a,1·e tnte;- es ted tn · A t .h l e t t.':J Sport you should have a 'copy of the Spalding Catalogue. It's a complete encyclopedta of What's New in Sport and is sent f1'ee on request. A. G. Spalding V Bros. NEW YORK BUFFALO SYRACUSE ' '-~ ' I i ' ' ,-, '. ''-

16 rrHE OONCORDIE·NSlS WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration of Any Descrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an order placed direct with . will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled .facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouses and Nurseries: L. D. Pene 1413 N Y C A d St f St Town of Florida and Hoffman, N.Y. Home 425 . • . • • rca. e, • a :e . . We Can Fit Your Foot Exactly In Regal QUARTER-Sizes Do you know that Regal Shoes are the only ready-to-wear shoes in the world made in quarter.- sizes t In addition to the usual half and full sizes, Regals come .. in the one-quarter and three-quarter sizes in between. This means that in REGAL SHOES there are just double the number of sizes found .in other shoes. You no longer have to be content with a shoe that is a little too loose or too tight. Come to us and we will give you an exact fit in a Regal quarter-size. If your foot-length is just between the half-sizes of. ordinary shoes, Regals are the only ready-to-wear shoes in which you can secure perfect fit and comfort. We have the exclusive local Regal ·Agency. $350 $400 and $500 On s.ale On1y HERE 8~ S. L. NUSBAUM, . 271 Stcte Street. ·~ S . . IZeS · For the best things to eat vv•e go to the : Cr;own Hotel ·' Opp. N. Y: C. Depot . Wall·and Liberty Sts., SCHEN!ECTADY G. A. CASSIDY CO. Pianos, Musical Merchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos ~tl~~t~~ctstreets, SCHENECTADY The Mohawk Hotel and Baths Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOO!DS & MEEHAN Props. 5CHENECT ADY 9 N. Y. Rooms : $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russi an and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. Fir~t Class Restaurant in Connection. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes. The Right Place to get it is· at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just opp. Jay St. ---- ------ ----- Geo. B. Cavanagh 3 14 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

r I THE CONCORDIENSIS 1 ,., 4 ON'T pay more than half a dollar for a scarf---it isn't neces. · sary, Don·t pay less---it isn't safe. Fifty cents ough t6 huy as Fashionable and Durable a scarf as any man . wants on any occasion. b ·wiU buy just that if you ask for and get LeMar C,ravats, . . sold everywhere for Half a Dollar. They're the same scarfs l()r which you have been paying twenty-five to fifty cent:s more .. Eighteen separate processes enter into the making ol LeMar Cravats. Thirty-six hands cut, line, sew and shape them. A won- derfully drillecl organization creates them in a cravat studio, not a actory. ·Every part is as carefully made ancl correctly acljusted as at watch. That's why LeMar Cravats look aristocratic;~ knot _grace_ fully, slip lreely and wear---wear---wear. Stull Bros., State St.\ Near Clinton, Schenectady, N.Y. a Snappy Styles For Young Men We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YouNG MEN'S SHo~s-and. no whe e will you find such .an .array c.f exclusive styles as we are showing. In Ot•r Fall Display you will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the new shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and 'Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes you'll find her~ made in styles to please _the young m~n offashiQn. Exclusive styles is our hobby; styles you'll find in no other store. Convince yourself· by a -look at our display windows. Prices from $3 .oo to $7 .. oo. \.~-- ... HUBER'S, 457 State St.,

18 T'HE OONCORDIENSIS A. R. Zita's Orchestra furnished music at Union Col- leg.e 1905 '06 '07 '08 '09 ' ' ' ' ' ' BEST DANCE MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-W Only the Best Service. No Better for Concert Office and Res.: 3 ~ Plain St., Albany, N. Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady~ New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine Metropolitan Service SANDERS ·The Oldest Optical Establishment in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among th.e :.~ College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY .. ' · May be you know us and our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of \'fhe Schenectady Clothing Co.\ (Gibson, Walton & Hagadorn, Ediso11; Hotel Buil~ing) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD u HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street wood Bro·s. . .. Men's Outfitters Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's Kid Gloves Sole A$ents for Star Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both ·Phones

., TilE ()ONCORDIENSlS . 19 ·sTUDENT'S . \We Want Your Banking Business The Schenectady Trust Company 318-320 State St. Home Phone 1191 H. R. Phone 1764--W Compliments of H. S. WEEKS Artistic Decorator-Dealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall Paper, Wood Mantles, Etc. Job Work i'\eatly Done 106 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. GOODMAN CJat2rer and D2licatessQn Ji~rves and .ells @v~r :lrifty Vari~ti~s of f.iandwiches 107 3ay JStreet 1Bot!1. lPhones -·stearns-Foster'' 110 «:elton· Felt Mattress They measure almost up to the $15 Stanclilrd! If you wish something that is sanitary, comfortable, altogether good and quite unusual in its quality and mate up, you will not be disappointed in these mattresses. A. BROWN & SON CO. 302-304 State Street Albany's Leading Eye Glass Makers 68 ·No. ·Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. · Under Kenmore Hotel ~ .. L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck , COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N. Y. Some students work because they have to; some because they think they ought to ; some because theylike to .. In any case it is easier if · they lead the . ''ELECTRIC LIFE\ -· . S·CHENECTADY . ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIETY PRINTING The Evening Star Job Department \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206

. ·, On Tl\e Hill . ' . ' ',' I ''1··'\'. . ···. ,.· -~ ~ .: { . ' .· • I ; ..... ~· .. ' \... .. : ~ Copynt;i.>l l9.;9 by Hart Schaff'ner;~· Marli- Hart, Schaffner &Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not ''freaks\ any they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little a bout them and see if the fello'\.YS do11• t all say so • ar1d H. S. & lVl. Overcoats are popular too. • • 240-242 STATE ST. THE· COLLEGE CLOTHIER

UNION COLLEGE. USR:\'\\1 .. , <tJf ~ ~ ·:c THE n- • • • CONCORD lENS IS VOLUME x·XXIII NUMBER 12 '\' • DECEMBER 15, 1909. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

; , ,-' 1 ... :: l,l 2 THID CONCORDIENSlS • • • • • UNION UNIVERSITY • CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., Chancellor UNION COLLEGE; SGHENECrfADY, N.Y. The College offers undergraduate courses as follows: 1.-1CLASSICAL COURSES-Leading to the De- gree of A. B. A. Greek is r·equired for admission to this Course. B. Greek i'S begun at entrance and is required for f.our ye·ars. 2.--'LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE-Leading to the Degree of P·h. B. This Course offers Latin without Greek. 3.----SCIENTIFIC COURSE-~Leading to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater part of the work of tne: last two years is elective. 4.---;GENERAL ENGINEERJN:G COURSE, o! four years, Ieadin·g to the Degree of B. E. During the third and fourth years two alterna_ tive options are offered in this Course. Qp.tion A-~In which the fundamental princi- ples o·f advanced technical subjects receive -emphasis. Option B-In which studies are offered which give a preparation for engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. 5.----~GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE, of six years, leading to the degrees of B. E. and Ph. B. This Course ·provides college and technical training ·by com.bining 'Courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANITARY E·NGINEERIN·G OOURSE-I..eadL. ing to the Degree ·of B. E. 7.-----ELEOTRICAL ENGINEERING COURSE- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers also graduate cours·es in Engineering of one year's res.idle·nt srtudiy, as toU.ows·: 8.---~Graduate Course in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree ·of M. C. E. 9.--lGraduate Course in Electrical m·ngineering, leading to the Degree of M:. E. E. For catalogue, address FRANK COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. There Must Be a Beginning Why not make it now ? $I. oo will open the account Interest begins each month Cal] for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MlE·DICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by Lectures, Recitations, Clinics, Laboratory Work, · Practical Demonstrations and Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages exceHent. Catalogues·an-d circulars containing full informa- . tion, sent on application to WiiLLIS G. TUOKER, M. D., Regi'Strar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LA VVI SGHOOJ...--lThis d·epartment of the University is located at Albarly, near the State Capitol. It occupi.es a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to th.e degree of LL. B. is· two years, each year is divid.ed into two semesters. EXPENSES:---'1\fatriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalog·ue or other information, ad- dress ALBANY LA W 1 SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMIACY-Exer cises held in Albany Medical College building. Graded course ·of instruction comprising two terms of six and one-half months each. Fees, eighty dollars pe-r term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, address THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., Albany, N. Y. Secretary. C. A. Whelan & Co. · Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YATES' BOAT HOU·SE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State Clf Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connec- tion with house : : : : : : : : : 29 FRONT STREE'\f SCHENECTADY

'THE C'0NUORDt£NSlS THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N.Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FRED'K W. ROCKWELL fbunday 113vening IDinner Special Orche~tral Programme t3upper after the iPlay Music in G1ill begins at 10.30 'iilinner Music in carill Friday and Saturday Evenings Dinner Music IDaily 6.30 to 8.30 o'clock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S ~i~UROUEA N HOTEL AND RE5TAURANT Brcn~~way and JIIniden Lane GENTLEME:J O~LY ALBANY, N.Y. 250 Rooms LADIES RESTAURA:NT ATTACHE 1 ) SPECIAL NE,\V RATHSRELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Roon1 'i'wenty-five Private Dining Roon1s \Y :\I. H. K E f;~L E R, Prop., Annex., ilO'I and f>!l\1 BrOlul \\·ay COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of ~ Caps!J Gowns and H~~ds To the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in PURE DRUGS GOOD CIGARS K 0 D A K S PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYLE-RJS BONBONS and CHOCOLATES rm -= Lyon Drug Stores Corner State a·nd Center Streets 714 Hamillon Street 13 McClellan Street mobawk Catering to Ladies and Children vVeber and Rush, Proprietors and Manager!' Charles T. Taylor, Resident Manager ITiatin~~ Ev~ry Day Cban~in~ Pro~ram IDondav and Thursday WITH Big Extravaganza Company PRICES-Matinee 10 cents and 25 cents Night, I 5 cents to 50 cents Daily Matinee for Ladies and Children, ro cents, reserved any part of the house SEA T~S NOW ON SALE

. ; '·, L I 1 . ' l 1 ' '~ ' .. 4 Student Furniture STU~EN!S furnis~ing thei_r own roo~s will be tnterest~d Hl our display for their especial benefit, from which we quote: Stro:ng 'Iron Couches, $2.7 5 Readlng Tables, $,3.5:0 to $10 c~omplete wUh Mattress, 4.. 75 Writing Desks, 3.50 to 24 The Wallace Co. SPECIAL: From now until Christmas ''U . '' Pen· nants I will sell aU - - - - lllOD with Idol Emblem for 69c regular price $1.00 ''Union'' Pillow Tops, Idol Em_blem for $1.48, regular pnce $2 .00. These will make an Ideal Christmas Present to your friends and at very low prices. 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse Bowling Alley FRED THALMAN Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, Etc. Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. GATES, Proprietor Cigars :. Cigarettes Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand RES'fAURANT' 238 State Street .. . . Both Phones C OLLEGE DAYS is one of the special mountings and folders among the large variety we have, lets show you what we can do for you; and we wont rob you on the price either. THE OBENAUS STUDIO . 305 STATE STREET LORRAINE BLOCK ' ; ) ·~ ( '1

THE CoNcoRDIENsfS . I UNION COLLEGE, DECEl\llBER 15, 1909., ~0. 12 THE GROWTH OF FRATERNI1'1ES. --.-- An Article Publis.hed in the November Number of The lntercoHegian Which Wi II Be of Par- ti-cular Interest to Union Students. Hard thing·s have been said a.bout college fra- ternities, but w.itihout gr·Gat signifi.cance. Col- lege presidents, growing exasperated oveT condi- Uons which taxed their patience, have had. their say fro1n time to time. Most of the other unkind. re1narks have eo1ne from outsiders who have not understood. Baok in the 40's and 50's, wll~en thr3 Greek letter societies w·ere in their infancy, says 1Vlerri tt Bu c- ler in the New Yo·rk Post, they pr·ovokeo keen re- sentment by their untactful demeanor to\~vard out- siders, making their conti.nued existence a matter of grave concern to the educatorR of the period. ~.owadays things an~ on a better basis; stron -;· llH3n are in the alumni lists; cha.pters are run on businesslike lines; the yo.uthful und8rgraduate members are made to study and be gentlemen, and, gerrerally, they beUe PresidGnt Schurman of ·Cornell when Jle soberly remarks that \if frater- nities are to pr·osper in the university, you .must find some w.ay of getting more wor~ done.\ Problems undoubtedly exist. ~~ext month there is to be a meeting i,n 1'\ew York between frater- nity men and educators to discuss questions com- illon to tb em both. The fraternity desires to re- solve th.ese questions-no one can ask n1ore. In a quarter .of a century the number of n1em- b·ers enrolled in the national ·fraternities has ris·en .from 72,000 to almost 270,000. The undergTadu- ate me:m.bershi~p in a normal yea.r now ranges be- tween 30,000 and 35,000, and of the Inore than For almost a generation the alumni t.1ave been contributing for the erection and maintenance o.f c·:hapter houses. In 1883 the number of houses owned or rented by chapters was thirty-threG; the total to-day, as stated above, exceeds 1,100. They vary in pretentiousness from t'he modest ones in the small ·college towns, ac·con1modating a dozen or more members, to finely appointed ones at the we;althier institutions, valued at $30,- 000 to $50,000 or even more apiece, and 1· ousing sometimes two score men. The tendency is to build more and more expen- sive houses. Naturally the undergraduate heart :yearns after a home finer than the rival's acrosR the way. T!:O.is general trend is most :::narl;:ed in the East, where ,fraternities ar·e older and better backed with money. At Columbia the pro.perty tenanted by the fraternities eannot be worth less than half a million dollars, and at Cornell the hou.s·es 1nust be valued at fully as much. At Wil- liams, where the disposition to erect costly houses has been partieularly strong, the twelve frater- nities own property valued at more than $300,000. Pili Betta Kappa, a purely honorary affair, was the first Greek letter society organized in an American college (Willia-m and M.ary in 1776). The establishment of Kappa Alpha at Uni·on in 1825 is comm.only aocounted the be~inning. Sigma Pihi and Delta Plh.i were found<?d at the same ~college in 1827, Psi Upsilon in 1833 and Chi Psi in 1841, and when, in 1831, Sigma Phi established a branch' at Hamilton, it initiated the movmnent which has given us the unique intercollegiate or- ganizations of to-day. E·ig:ht years later the first western .fraternity was founded-iB·eta Theta Pi at o1d Miami. At w:hich College Phi Delta Theta 1,700 branches or chapters of these societies 1,100 was al~o founded a few years later. Then other own or rent ·houses, which at a conservative es- timate are valued at m·ore than $8,000,000. The frater.nity has ceased to be an amusement and has become an instituti·on. fraternities sprang up in the E~st, West and South with gr·eat rapidity. The original Union triad, so-called, began as senior societies, but qui·ckly extended their privi-

6 l'HE UONC{)l{D1EN.8f.~ leges to the low·er classmen. To-day, exee:pt in the ·cha.pter over its men to keep then1 straight a few institutions, notably Yale, fraternities take Eiid clean is :nost powerful. 1n me.n o a · c asses. . n tJ. . ea · · s · , · f 11 1 I t'•e rly day 1't was _~ll t,r1e steady devel:orJment of this undoubted not unusual to elect ·£.o active or honorary .:nem- bersihip pron1inent n1:embers of the faeul[y. This wa.s espe-cially true at the organization of new cha}Jters. But in later years this pra:ctice las been generally abandoned, ·and to-day the initia- tion of any man into a frate:rnity excP.pt as an undergraduate is a rarhy. To maintain the fraternity activities requires money and this is obtained largely by per capita assessment on the undergraduates. The ra..te varies from abouc ·$4 to more than $30 :a year, the latter ainou.nt being paid, it is said, by the melll- bers of a small eastern fraternity. Some people would have us believe that the moven1ent into houses has been a detriment to sohola.rship. Undue attention to social aedvities is a charge that in some lfratern.ities cannot be .de- nted. In the wealthier societies, no d·oubt, ex- travagant 1 bia.bits are bred that are not hel pEul to chara•C(er. Another in.fluence of ch3.pter house life is often overlooked. This is the leveling off of fraterni- tir:~s ,the destruction of their individuality. When the chapters rented roo·m.s for n1eetings, and the chapter Ufe centered about classroom and cam- pus, chere was large opportunity for m~e of the S·21G·ctive principle i.n obtaining men. It was in- evitahle that different types sh·ould group them- selves into different fraternities. To-day, with. l&rger emphasis put upon material thin ~s. the inclination is strong among cl~ apters in any in- stituHon to imitate the methods of the societv whicil is a·ccounted most succe·ssful from a.n ex- ternal point of view. T1he natural ~eonsequence is that many fraternities are losing the character~ istics that distinguished them 1fr·om their rivals. On the ot:bier hand chapter ho11se life has -:>'iven many a man useful training for work in the world. The awkward boy gains e·ase; the unbuginess1ika mind is taugbt by experience in ·Chapter finanre: the lleedlGss youth learns che m·eaning of es nrit de corps and gains a. sense ,of J'P.qn()nsihi!it\:r. WheTe the moral tone is sound the influence of in1fiuence .for good that fraternities ·poss,ess lies tho hope ·o-f ·collese authorities and fraternity le·aders. Extravaga,nces .must he eurhed; ex·ces- sive devotion to nonacade·mic interests must be eliminated; saner re.lati:ons to the true functions of college life must be sedulously cultivated. HOCKEY. Now that the Athleti.c Board of the college has sanctioned hockey and taken it under its juris- di-ction, the fe-llows have been endeavoring to prodwce a team which will b·2 worthy the name of \Old Union.\ Practice has brought out a large amount of fine material for a fast team and with the opening of next term a nurnber of new n1en will probably appear. Just at present, 'how- ever, there is one thing which is causing :Manager vValser no little trouble. With their sanction the atlhletic committee imposed the condition t:hat those interested in a team, or to be more defin- ite, that Manager Walser obtain the snm nf fifty dollars other than by .a student tax. Tb 8 pre- vailing idea being that the studP.nt body has C> l· ready be·en taxed too heavily. On the other hand, should the team obtai.n support fro1n 2 student tax the students would be anowed to ent·~'r f! t the games, p;aying no adn1ission. The hockey team would neeessarily have to promise guaran~ tees of a considerable amount together wilh hir· ing the rink therefore from a business stand]:.oint it is better that this new organiz::ttion be supported by individual subscription rather than by a stu·· dent tax. 'VVith this ide~ in mind one n1emb·2r or the Athletic Board i. e., Prof. Opdyke, has o~GrerJ ten dollars to1ward the .:fifty needed to equip the team. Manager Walser has communieated with th·e managers of the \Villiams and A111terst teams. One restri·ction which the Ath:letie Board laid do.wn was that the team would h(l allowed to play only one or two local teams of the best ::~tanding in the :City League. The reason for this is v·cry apparent. ·Last year the team was a Jocal organization not sanctioned by the Athletic

Board. This ye~ar it is :to be re.cognized as an intercollegiate sport and therefore it should play interc·oUegiate hockey. Arrangements will be ,e·omplete:d by next term so that fo.e team will lhtave a permanent place in whi·ch to practice. 'Game·s played with visiting teams will probably be played on the Boa.t Club rink. Undoubtedly there ar€ m:en with some ability in t:his line of s.port in .college who as yet have not &.p.peared at pra,ctice. Next term t•he <?xams being over everyone .should come out and support this branch of atib:letics. If everyone comes out a.nd works hard to help make the ·hockey season a suecess Union should soon have a team of which she might well be justly proud. OUR NEW UNIVERSITY CATALOGUE. The one hundred and eleventh edition of thP union University catalogue, which was recently distributed among t'he students, is the n0atest and most attractively arranged of any that hag ever been published. Not only does the light gray, covered with the s1nall University seal on the upper left-hand corner, make the catalogue more attractive, but it is also much :;nore dura b1y bound. Great credit is certainly due to Dr. Barnes, who had charge of the compilation and publication of the catalogue. T11e total number of students in the w'hole University is row 759, which is an increase of 69 over the number registered last year. In every department there is a marked increase in nn:u- bers. The College of Pharmacy shows the -(·· greatest increase, there now being 23 more stu.- dents than last year. A comparative summary of the students in all the departments for this year and the previous o:ne are as follows: 1909-'09 Union College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 331 Medical College . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 4 Law 'Sch.ool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 College of Pharmacy . . . . . . . . . . . 66 691 Counted Twice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1909-'10. 344 192 136 89 762 3 7 ~This catalogue also announces the estabUsh· ment of a new scholarship ana two new prizes, all of which are given by Daniel F. Pullman, of Knox, Albany .County, 1N. Y. The value of the scholarship, whi-ch is to be given to a student in the classical coure, is $120 a year. The two prizes are worth $40 each, one being a warded to the Senior who attains t'tle l1ighest .standin,g in the classical course, and thr. other to the Senior engineer who has the highest average standing. In awarding both the scholar- sb.ip and the prizes, preference is to be given to members of the Methodist Episcopal Ct1urch. D•ORAN BROWN ELECTED FOOTBALL CAPTAIN .. Last Monday Doran Brown, '11, received as l:ihe wr~ll-earned reward of tJhree yeH.rs of hard work on the college football gridiron the e-lection as football ·captain for next year's team, one of the m<?st influential positions open to the members of the junior class. Ever since his entrance at college Brown has b·2en nne of the most faithful trainers and one of the most consistent players on the w\i1ole team. He has not only filled the position of tackle, but bas also played an admirable game both as fu11- baek and h.al1fba.ck. His skill at kicking field go~ls is one of his strongest points, and this h\ several tilnes saved the Garnet eleven from de- feat. Alttough it is difficult to anticipate th~ success of tbG saaso.n of 1910, it is certain, that if it lies ,:v-ithin the power of the captain oT manager, Lhe season will be one of the most sn·ccess•ful ever 1aJown at Union. Good men will be lost by gradu- ation next June, but it is hoped that their posi- tions can he capably filled from the material al- ready in the ·college and Albany departments and fro1n the entering classes. Sawyer, '12, spent last Sunday ·evening at Ball- ston Spa. President Richmond presided at the denomi- national servi-ce of the Laymen's Conferenc€ at Total ............ _ . . . . . . . . . . . . 690 .,~, tr,e First Presbyterian Church Tuesday afternoon.

'I ' 8 'l'HE OONCORDIENSIS The d . . Concor 1ens1s A Literary and News W·eekly Published by THE STUDEN'l'S OF UNION UNIVERSITY. I•Jntt>·I·ect at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, u. G. Van Deusen, '10, Phi Delta Theta House. ASSIS'l'AN':r EDITOR-1N-CHIEF, 'l'. D. Walser, '10. BUSINESS MAN AGEJR, A. R. Chaffee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIATE EDITORS, .T. Beakley, '11. W. D. Cavert, '11. REPORTORIAL STAFF, C '13 J. E. Petter, '12. H. 'f. ase, . R. P. Patterson, '12 II. A. Sc1lermerhorn, '12. Football ..... Basketball ... '!'rack ....... . Baseball .... · Y. :\I. C. A .... Honor Court Terrace Council COLLEGE DIREC'rORY. j L. A. Heqnembourg, '10 ...•.... Captain ~ H. K. IIntcheu~, '10 ........... Manager 1 .J. G. Chat'PRt, '10 .............. Captain ,J. Zimmer, '10 ................ :Manager 1 A. IL !>ennis, '10 ............... Captain II. II. OI·on'r, '10 .............. Manager 1 II. P. Ste,vm·t, '10 .............. Captain ~- K. IIrclP, '10 ................ Manager 1 ~- :\L <'a vert, '10 ............. President .T. II. PottPI', '12 .............. Secretary j T. n. \Yal~Pl', '10 .............. President ·~ \V. D. Ca vPrt, '11. ............. Secretary ~ ~- :\L Cn YPI't. '10 .............. President ( 11. H. OI·o-rf'r, '10 ............. Secretary ~iusical Clubs Glee, 0. A. Faust, '11 ............. Leader 1 fi. W. Smith, '10 ............... Manager :\lnmlolin, ~- \Y. SlnttPr, '10 .... Leader Concordiensis 5 II. 0. Van Df'U~Pn, '10 .......... Editor ( A. R. ChaffPP, '10 .............. Manager { .T. BPaklPr. '11 .......... Editor-in-Chief 1!)11 GarnPt .• T. l\J. TowmH'IHl. '11. ........ Bus. Mgr. i A. I·~. KI'iPgRmnn, '10 .......•.. President Press Club ... .H. ~- Trumbull, '12 ........... Secretary TERMS: One subscription .................................. $2.00 Single Copies ................................. 10 Cents. Publication Office, Schenectady Evening Star. To-day begins a series of Final Ex- OUR aminaUo:ns, the first in the history of H ON 0 R UnioN. to he eondliJ:eted under an Hon-or System. Hitherto, it has been ne,ces- sary for bhe JH·,ofessors to watch· :the examinations to keep dishonesty out of them. But now the stu- d·ent body itsel.f has undert~ken the responsibil- ity of purifying the e·onduct of the examinations and raising the honor and moral tone of t~1e stu- dents. In other words, a speeies of moral evolu- tion has taken place, ,for w'h:ile hitherto we have been watched, n-ow we are to be place-d on our own feet and made to bear our own responsibil- ity. T·here are several things that might be me.n- tioned. In the .first place, the Faculty, to a man, is ba,ck of the mov-ement and it rests only with tha ~tuden·~s as to whether the Honor System shall succe2d. And, lastly .from a personal stand- point, is it no:t a satisfa1ctory feeling to realize that you have been 'white\ and sq.uare to your- self, to others and to Old Union? Let each one of us then make up his mind that this ·movement for Union's sake shall surely suc,ceed and the rest will ta.ke care of itself. Thus shall our standards and morals be raised. There is one thing in reg;ud to the ORDER IN 'Honor System which makes some EXAMS. of th·e students opposed to it and ri s·h tly fO, too. That is the matter of the order that exists during the examinations. All of the tests ·Of thi.s fall term ·have been con- du,cted under the Honor .System provisions and have been very successful. But when the Pro- fe·ssor or Instructor in charge of the examination leave:s tt e room there is a. certain degre·e of laughing, talking and walking about. Of c-ourse that i.s permitted and it is safe to say that n-o.n·e of the discussion is concerning the subject of the examination but it is :hardly fair to som.e men in the ·class. Some of the men cannot write out a creditable paper when there is any disturbance in the room so an injustice is ·often done many of the men. Just bear this in mind and during the present examinations let us kee.p good order during an 01f them and this will materially aid the work of the Honor System.

UNJON COLlEGE UBRARt ·T 1 he .suggesUon wldch Dr. Rieh- M EMO~RIA:L mond made to the Alumni last GATE. -week concern.i.ng the erection of a Memorial G·ate in ::n1onor of John How:ard Payne, of the ·clas.s of 1810, met :with the hearty approval of that body and s.hould be wel- ·comed by the students. of the college as well. It is an excellent way of ·commemorating the names O!f gTaduate-s of ou.r college who have become famous in the world at large and who have done mucih for their generation. It win do sevel'lal thi.ngs for our old college. If this s.dheme is con- tinued, as it u.ndo.ulbtedly will, it will result in the er·ection of several similar memorhtls about the campus and in that way the beauty of the cam- pus will be a.dded to. While such ttings. do not have much plaJce in the real work of a college they help very much in reaching the .goal be- fore t!h1e institution. Such memorials will c.all to people's attention the Ifact that the alumni <>f Uni-o.n hold as high pla1c.e-s in pubUc service as those of any institution and will be the means of bringing Union before the pUiblic in s-uch a way tha.t Union will seem to the people the right place to send t1l·etr children for ·colle~ge training, as we know it is. And furth·er, this prominence of ehie ·colle~e will result in the financial s.u.pport of mau y rot only of our graduates but of othe·rs, a tnat- tE:r wbich we ·can not ignore if the work of the ·college is to be carried on and its i-deals to be realized. Until very re·cently there was THE publistied by the college, edited UNIVERSITY by members o·f the Faculty, a QUARTERLY. magazine ·called \The Univ·ersity Quarterly.\ T'his has been al- lication eould be secured by a thorougt: c·anv·ass ·-,. of the Alumni for subscriptions .as well as other ai-d. We hope that this may re.c·eive attention and that matters will be adjusted so as to a_llow the pr-inting of this magazine as it was pre- viously. NOTED MIS·SIONARIES SPEAK AT THE CHAPEL EXER~CI~SES. At the chapel exercises during the first thr:.e mornings this week, the students have had some rare opportunities of hearing the views of Chris- tian men who have devoted their money and their Ufe towards· bettering the conditions of the people in China, India, and oth.er parts of As.ia. On Monday Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, ·a ,former missionary to Arabia, forcefully de-scribed the \v·ork do.ne by the missionaries to the Orient and told about the ·conditions as they are at present. lVIany of the students had heard Dr. Zwemer speak while at Northfield, and for thi.s reason - they were especially interested in his talk. .Qeorge SD.erwood Eddy, a young missionary from India, spoke before the students on Tues- day. After graphically telling about his work in uplifting the Hindus, he appealed to the students for help in the work. We-dnesday morning a Union ahtmnus of the class of '85, the Rev. Dr. Harvey De\Vitt Gris- wold, was present. Dr. Griswold is a professor in the Forman Christian College of Lahore, In- dia. It was due to his efforts that Shiv ~arayan, wbo graduated from Union last June and has since returned to :his native oountry, was sent b ere to learn modern methods of engineering, his expenses being paid by the government. PRESS CLUB. The Press Club ·calendar will be out this week at $1.00 each. Thos•e wiho have not ordered should see Shepard, '1·2: At the last· meeting re- ports .from all .committees were submitted. The clu·b tJ.as be·en suecHssful ·financially, · having started tihe year with a debt of ·$7 and now hav- lowed to drop, principally because of thg lack df sufficie.nt funds for its publieation. Tt was a 1nagazine that filled a place in the University and ~~:ave ·:a clh:ance ·for th·e .publication of much mat- ter, both interesting and instructive. A great amount of the material ·consisted of articles writ- ten by our p:rofessors upon im-portant questions. ing $23.50 in the tre1asury. The hat proposition H seems a s·haru.e t.o have this magaz-ine ·disap- at the Hamilton game -was not very profitable, })ear and it seem.s that money enough for its pub- many more hats being made t'han were· sold.

10 rl\HE O·ONCORDIENSIS · ALUMNI OlNNE·R• · MU.SI·C.A;L CLU.B TFUPS. New York, December 9, 1909. The annual alumni dinner 01f the Union College Alumni of New York, whieh was held in New York city last Thursday night, was an e~cep- . tionally enthusiastic one and one that will prob- ably result in many favora.ble matters for tile college. Dr. R]c!h,mond spoke at length' before the gath- ering, snowing them the present condition of the coHegG and also the present needs for financial aid. The alumni present seemed to be very wi.ll- jng and eager to carry out wihat Dr. Richmond suggested to the-m in his s:peech and to assist in all ways :possible. H·e also spoke to them in re,g~ard to the gymna.sium movement and they seemed very enthusiasti·c over it and ready to support it. Another matter vyhich· was brought up at that ti'm-e was the erection of a suitable me:norial in honor of John How::trd Payne. M'r. Pa~ne was a gtadua.te frotn the coHege in the .clas·s of 1810, and was tbe author of \Home Sweet H·om8,\ one of the best 01f th·e songs in the English language. In view of tihe fa~ct that next year will be G1e centennial of his graduation it was t'hougl:t best The. mu.siCal C1u'bs !hiad ·-a busY' time last. week. On Monday :the combined: Clubs leift on ·a s :peei al car ·for Albany, wher·e a concert was gtv.en in. the Unitarian Church. The p·rogra.m: Part I. 1. College .Songs\ Glee Club. 2. \In Royal' Favor\ Mandolin Club. 3. Solo Whitney, '13. 4. \Yankee Dandy\ Banjo Club. 5 \vV.ai ting\ Davies, '08. 6. \'Village Ohoir\ Glee ·Club. Part II. 7. \'Carmen.a\ Glee Club. 8. a. \To my First Love\ b. \You'd 'Better Ask Me\ Ferguson, '10. Potter :vlilla rtl Lyn€s vVilson Lo'b: Lo1w 9. \Romance of a Rose\ O'Conno1· String Quartette-Slutter, 10, Tiet·out, '11: Clowe, '11, Fink, 11 I o erect su.ch mem·orial at tbat time as ~eems fit- 10. \Jonathan Jones\ Slater ting. Some thought a tablet would be the proper Wnitney, 13, -and Glee .Club. memorial, but Dr. Richmond suggested the erec- 11. \Pansies for Tbollgfhts\ Rlyn tio,n of a m.emorial gate to be in ac.cord with the Mandolin Club. fence which is proposed to extend finally around 12. \Ahna M1ater\ Ludlow, '51) the entire c'3.mpus. This idea a-ppealed to t:1ose present, and although the matter has not been deffinitely decided upon, a gate will prohahly be erected. r~ot only Union Colleg·e ~raduates, but every nne who is interested in the famous poet will have an opportunity of contributing toward the ere·ction of this memoria'L Although the first i-dea was t·lla.t it sihould be the work of the col- l-ege alumni, it is now decided t:1at the monev will be raised by popular subs,criptions ranging rrom ~ $1.00 upward. A com:mittee bas been ap- Combined ·Clubs. An informa.l dance was enjoyed aft€r the ~on­ ·cert. This was given by t~he Albanv HI~h School •Chapter of Theta 1Sigma and proved deJigntful O·n Friday ev·ening the clubs g-ave .a con cart in ~allston under the auspices of th€ Younc; Women's 'Club of Ba.1Iston in St. M·grv's Hall. \rte same program was re.ndered as in Albany. On Saturday evening the •Glee Club sa.ng be·fore tw·elve hundre·d men ga..there.d at a ban ouet of tbe - Laymen's Mis.sionary Conference fn U1e Armorv. TJJ.e following men made the trips : 1910- p:ointe·d to take ·c:litarge· of all arrangements for tlre Hutcilens, Leon, Paul, Potter, W1al.ser: 1911- rnemorlaL B:entley, Bowm:a.n, Clow·e, Coffin, Di~k, Faust, I·,. ,.

lfjn~, ~· FowJer, · ·Gr[ty, .· Eyde, ;Mc;C?llough, Morss, O!iraH~ ·'fiebout; l9l2_._,~wcJdeY.,: ·Ohur.e1I:ill, Ooyk,en- dall, Fishe·r, Hequemhourg, Hoyt, Lawsing, ~a.nn, Riley~ .~roith, St~ John, Van. .A~rnam,. W_alser, Wes tc(>tt ;. l913-l8rate, Cook, ~Davi:s, Finley, Gid- ding, Kline, L·e Barr·on, .Lowe, Mabie, Male, May- ham, Rogers, Smith, Whitney. NOTED LAWYER SPEAK'S AT VESPER SE·RVICE. At th1e last vesper service of the fall term, Henry Winans Je.ssup of New York city gave one of the most interHsting and ~helpful talks that the students have heard this year. M:r. Jessup, who is one o1f the leading lawyers of New York ·city, took :as the subj·8ct of his talk the question, ''Is the Profession of Law a Voca- tion for College Me:n ?\ Mr. Jessup is a Prince- ton graduate and was entertained by \Prexy'' Richmond during his stay on the \hill.\ In taking up the subje~ct, :he said that he did not wis·h anyone to think that he conEider·ed law as \the\ vocation for .colle-ge men. \For he sa.id, \in the first place everyone must show reason why he sho11ld not preach the gospeL Cir~cnmstances, bowever, are often sucb that some of us cannot prea:ch t!he gospel ~from the pulpit or proclaim it as a missionary. For those who cannot preach better in some oth-er way, law is a profession where Christian men can render goo·i sqrvice.\ He also spoke about the temptations of the 1a.wyer. a11d said fhq,t n·o one is justifl9d in shrink- ing frow a profe,ssion beca.use it is beset with tern pta.ti ons. The regular group Bible classes were not held on Tuesday evenine,· in order that th~ students wbo desired might attend tihe m·eeting of the Laymen's Missionary Conference. DRAMATIC CLUB. The play, \A Family Affair,\ 'has been selected by th€ Dramatl!e ·Cl1.1b. Those trying out should learn the part desired and be ready for rehear- sals direetly after the Xmas va.cation. Nothing d·e1fini te as to the time for the play has been de- cided, but an attempt will be made to put it on some time in ·February. l.J Tlte_Populat Drug:Store Fellows bring thei~r :friends to QUINN'S for refreshments vvh.en down town. Our ~oda Fountain presents a very attrac- tiVe menu no.w-a-days. There's- Sandwiches Salads Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea lee Cream Coffee Soda AH are extra good and are served in the charac:eristic Quinn mamner WM. H. :QUINN Drug~·ist Vt:ndome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre Sts_ COLLEGE. BR:JrE,FS. Hanigan, '13, was Decently announced as. one ·of the· winThers in ·a priz.e essay contest recen,tlv off€red by· Colgate and Goropany as to which of two propose·d advertiseinents was the better and ' why. Hanigan won fourth prize out of ovG'r 59,000 co:nt estan ts. 'The photograp'hers' .finn of Philip Toll Hill & Co., in which Arthur J. White seem~ . to ha a s:ilent partner, now has a special bulletin board for the display of college :pictures. JUS'r ACROSS FROl\!1 GREEN GATE ' . - .. ~ - .~~ . FINK'S PHARMACY ·rHE COLLE.GJ~. SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS . COLLEGE M 1 ·EETING. December 13, 1909. Immediately after the meeting was called :to order the fellows g:ave a cheer for \Johnny\ Charest. As basketball ·captain, he a:a·ll·OUnced tTI.at the only pra.ctice iheld this w·e·ek would be on Tuesday at 4:30 p. m. in th~ Armory. He emphasized the fa.ct that all who know anything at all about the g.ame should come out and that those who are out should keep in shaJpe during vacation. As ·chai:r.man o.f the class toque ·committ·ee, TI.e an- nounced that the sopihomore -color would be dar~k blue with. t:he usual garnet trim·mings. Hutchens, football manager, announced that a meeting of the squad w·ould be called immed.iat·e- ly after noon chapel on Tuesday to ele-ct the ca.p- tain for 1910 season. There is still hope of having a Union College h.ock:ey team. Walser, '1 0, announced th~at if enough men come out and if t:ile fellows will show enough interest to see that fi.fty dollars is rajsed a.m·ong the students and alumni, the schedule will be ratified by the Athletic Board. ·There will be was its Albany eorres~pondent. He lh:as .als·o re- ported marry nation:al and .state voliUcal con- ventions. 189.6.~An article on \Cement Its Constituent Materials,\ by 1RusseU 8. Greeman, '96, published in tJhe ~~ovember numher c>1f the \Barge Canal Bulletin,\ is receiving very favorable ID:entio.n and is frequently being given :as a ''text bo·ok\ on the subjeet to conerebe wor~kers. l'H E HUDS·ON'S HJ.GHLAND G·A..TEWAY. By Eric T. King, '0·5. At a large dinner given by H·on. J. Waldo .S.mit;h, chief engineer of the New York City Board 01f Water 'S.up1ply in New York ·On Decem- \ler 10th, the following poem written by Eric T. King·, Un~on '0.5, was engraved upon the menu -:.ard. _A.t the dinner were so.:n:ething over one ltcus.a.nd engineers employed in various branches of this imm.ense :proje·ct. The Hudson's Highland Gateway. Pause, stranger, for a L.nom8nt, and look on ful in between- Two s:tately mountains tow' ring high; and peace- practice after vacation and all who can play or in between- even skate should be out there. The Q.ueen of Rivers siletUt flowing ever on Otto Faust said a few words about the men in the Glee Club who were not pr·esent in the Armory Saturd:ay night when tf'ne .Layman's banquet was held. He reprim•ande·d them and said that all but a few w!ho had good e:x;cuses for not being there would be dropped from the clubs. More men, espe·ci.ally tenors, ar·e needed to take their places. As there was no further business to be brought up the meeting was adjourned. ALUM 1 NI NOTE.S. 1895.-Announcement ha.s been made of the appointment of Clarke W. .Crannell as private se·cretary of Distri·ct Atto:rn.ey-ele·ct Whitina.n of New York county. 'Mr. Crannell was born in Al- bany and is a graduate of Union College in the 'class of 1895. After graduating from Union he began w·ork on the N·e•w York Evening Mail and has since served on th:at p.aper ·continuously. lfi,or the last eleven sessions ·of the Legislature :O.e and on, Till n1irglii1g with the gTeater sea, her goal is fairly won. Yon massive p~le of granite rock which Time could not deCtay, vVvs guarding well this river-gate, 'ere man ~aw li·ght of day; - And we, with borrowed forces, which God, Him- s~elf cO'mmands, Would mould it into usefulness to serve our own demands. ~lrea.dy have the artisans begun on their attack Nor will tile din of h:ammers cease, nor zeal nor ardor slac~k rrill all their lahor finished, th:at day s·hall happ·en, Kind when, .Nature's purest thirsty men. water greets four million ·-Eric T. King.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 THE CLA 1 S·S O·F '84. ['his year the Class of ':84 ceie'brates its qua~·­ te~r century of existence. It has recently .gotten out the following which may be or .some intereiSt to many of the men in college, and it may do a great 'deal to stir up more loyal spirit for \Old Unio·n.\ The Class of '84 df Uni•on College. \Ol:d Eighty-Four, Old Eighty-Four, thy loyal sons are we; Tl~o years may pass 01 fortune, we still .shall faithful be.\ The Class of E1gh ty-Four of Union College num- Hall and Kitts in busi:ness. Eighty-Four was well prepare·d for the. work of life by ahna mater, and has ceased not since the day of graduation to love and: honor, and give to the dear old col· lege that did so much for us. In a quarter of a ·century a fourth of ol!lr class dropped by the way. Probably the decrease will be equally as ,great at our semi-centennial, and beyond that the reunions are bound. to grow smaller as the years go by. l\1any classes t11at have left tlle gray walls of Old Union have been content to let their class life die at graduation, but we have spent our time, and thot and money 111 perpetuating these cone.ge formed friendships, and h.ere vow to hold our class reunions as long as two or three of us can meet together. Harvard' d class of '29, among -whose sixty members were Dr. Holmes and S. F' . .Smith, 11eld reunions thro sixty-two years, and until only Holmes, and Smith and Dr. May, th.e class Secretary, werB left. The class of '84 of Amherst has held thirty duri-ng college days. References to these wer~ reunions since graduation, publishing a book each bered seventy-nine men) of whom forty-thr8n graduated in ·course and three in other classes. Twenty-one of these men have died since entrance or graduation. vve have been able to keep track of all the graduates but one, and of aH the mem- oers.of the class but eight. Old \ Concordienses '' c~.nd clippings from the \·Star\ and \ Union·· give many side lights on the history of the class made in the vigesimal record. This quarter ceD·· hirY record is the briefest resume of the life and work of each man so far as we have been been able to learn it. We G.oubt if any class ever graduated from the college has been kept in ~loser touch with each other t\.:an the fellows of '84. President Raymond wrote the Amherst '84 Secretary, \The class of '84 has perhaps held more rernions than any other class which has graduated within the last half century. 'l'hey nave publisl1ed Eeven class books (the present issue makes the ninth) and have contribute·l as a class to tbe funds of the college.\ Not alwaY'3 tilne, and gathering annually at ·commencement. At a recent reunion they gave $10,000 to the college. Our word to Etg'hty-F·our is this: a formal and elaborate reunion, but at every com- mencement the fellows present have rallied around a common centre to review the past, to congratulate the present, and to look hopefully toward the future. We believe that as a whole we may write over the roll of this class the word \ success,' for in tracing the general story of all the men we are led to believe that as a class it is far above the average. If we 'vere to individualize we could point out m8n in our class who stand well up in the world. of business, and men who rank high in the leading professions of the country. Brilliant lights have already gone out, as Rooker and Pm> cher in the ministry. and Delaney in newspaper work, and Wells and Chis1om in engineering, an1 \Once in a twelvemonth, come what n.1.ay, Anchor your ship iR a quiet bay; ·Gall all hands and read the log, And give 'em a taste o' grub and grog. Stick to each other thro thick anc thin; All the closer as age leaks in; Squalls will blow and clouds will fro·wn, But stay bY your ship till you all go down.\ We do not say that ours was an unusual class either in cone.ge or since graduation, along the lines of mental power, or social progress, or nlJ.- terial possession. The virtues that Jifferentiat2 '84 in college and out of it, were the class-spiriter1 leaders'hip of certain of its membeTs, who yet had good material to work upon in the class More than this, there is the enthusiastic loyalty and the deep rooted sentiment that made Old Union the eternal Mecca of our hearts, and when June approaches we begin our annual pilgrim- age to this classic shrine, where our ideals were formed anJ our friendships cemented. ''Then here's to thee, the brave and free, Old Union sn1Hing o'er us; And for many a day, as thy walls grow gray, . May they rin2; with thy children's chorus.': W. N. P. DAILEY, Secretary

,, ' '. ' 14 THE UONOORDIENSIS Now 1{eadry! Glee Club and Football Pictures Also Artistic Frames WHITE, The· Photographer PHILIP 1. HILL, College Reprensentative COLLEGE B.RIEFS. Dr. Robert W. Hill, secretary of State Board of Charities gave a talk on \Public Charities\ before the eeonomic class last Thursday morning. Training :for relay tean1 will start directly af- ter the opening of next term. Webb, '12, has been ele·cted to ca.ptain the so11homore basketball team this season. The s·ophomore ha.sketball team will play the Saratoga High .Sohool team t:h;is 'coming Saturday night at Saratoga. . The Press Club calendars will probably be ont in a day or two. DramaU.c Club rehearsals begin in earnest after X1nas vacation. ~ow that vacation begins very shortly and every one is planning on going home we should realize that now is the time to turn men toward \Old Union.\ Union has quite a reputation in the college world for debating. It is ·probable that a number of indoor meets will be arran.ged for the trac·k team this co:ning seas·on. Potter, '09, has returned from New York, w'here he attended the .New York Alumni banquet. !Schuyler, '12, has le1ft ·college on account of ill health. He expects to return next term. Ashy says that ·every fellow ought to get a ten s·pot every day; hut the fello·ws say it is easier to get the deu.c.e. Prof. Hoffman was a speaker at a dinner of the Yale alumni of this city last Saturday night. Prof. McKean is to preach the Gh.rist:nas ser- INTERCOLLEGIATE. Oberlin is going to have a soccer football team There are 1,110 students at Dartmouth this year. Beginning with next year, Dartmouth will debar Freshmen frorn intercollegiate ·contests. W. & L. E. ·GURLEY TROY, N.Y. Civil and Mining Engineers' and Land Surv·eyors' Instruments Also s.cientific Boo1ks Send for Catalogues Wisconsin wiU probably have a tnliner an ,t custodian for the football team next year. The Yale Co-operative Association, in its report 1.0r the year 1908-9, shows an increase of cash business of a·bout $6,800 over that of the ye:;u oefore. \ A City Chap\ is the title of the play written by George Ade for the Dramatic Club of Purctu0. The Athletic Association of the University oi Washington has received' $1,000 from busines~ men of Seattle for the purpose of building two eight-oared shells HANANS $6.0 0 PATTON & HALL To- Young Man of Taste Are you inter- ested in real :fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better for WEAR See our THE ~'{..~~ 0t-to6 $4.00 \Unions Headquarters for Styles\

THE 0'0NOORDIENSIS 1 ;:-} Tb~ St¢rling Jlrt Sb~p WantseveryUnion man to call and see their line of Pictures, :Calendars, Cards and Christmas Novelties Never mind whether you wish to buy or not, we'll be glad to see you. 212 Stat~ Str¢~1 • • Picture Framing--- Did she o·ive you her b ..; Photograph? Frame It! THE GLEASON BOOK CO. The •·Ara-Notch\ makes the \Belmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perfectly (5c,2fo,25c. Cluett, Peabody &Co. M:akers ARROW CUFFS 25 cents a :t dr All College News Always in The Gazette Pass Word-- Psc;hoor Brau Therringer B,ratt Wurst with Sauer- kraut or Potato Salad NlCHOLAUS =-a=== ,,..,.** ·=e . -~---~ - - --· ------- ----- One Block East of Central Station Large, Bright Sample Rooms L. D. Tel. in Every Room. THE \NEW VENDOME\ AMERICAN PLAN FIRST CLASS IN EVERY PARTICULAR NEWLY FURNISHED, RENOVATED and ENLARGED- WM. J. GEASON All 0 u tside Rooms ~3.50 and up Manager. Schenectady, N. Y. A. C. SPALDING & BROS. The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of · Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES IF Y 0 U are inter- . estedin · Atlzleti.J . . . sport you should have a copy of t!z.e ;:,palding Catalogue. It, s a complete encyclopedza of What's New in Sport and is sentfree on request. A. G. Spalding & Bros. NEW YORK BU,FFALO SYRACUSE·

16 rrHE CONCORDIENSIS WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration ol Any Descrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an order placed direct with . . . will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouses and Nurseries: L. D. Pene 1413 N Y C A d St f St Town of Florida and Hoffman, N.Y. ' Home 425 • • • ·rca e, a e · • You Can SEE The Real Oa~ Leather In REGAL SHOES -Through the \Window of the Sole'' There • s a little circular slip of paper pasted on the sole of every Regal Shoe. By lifting up this \ Window of the Sole \ you can see the white, Live-Oak-tann{.d leather underneath-the finest sole leather in the world. The cheap, red, Hemlock- tanned leather in other shoes is blackened over to hide its tell-tale color. Hemlock leather is brittle and stiff, but Regal Live-Oak-tanned leather is flexible u.nd wears like iron. If you want honest sole leather-if you want shoes that will last-get Regal Shoes at our exclusive Regal agency. $350 $400 and $500 S. L. NUSBAUM 271 State Street A Smart Regat .Alodel For the best things to eat we go to the Crown Hotel OpP.. N. Y: C. D,epot · Wall and Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY . G. A. CASSIDY CO. Pianos, Musical M·erchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos ~~~~et:~ctstreets, SCHENECTADY Th~ Mohawk Hotel and Baths Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOODS & ME:EHAN Props. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Rooms : $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russian and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. Fir~t Class Restaurant in Connection. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes. The Right Place to get it is at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just opp. Jay St. Geo. B. Cavanagh 314 State Street . Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

'rHE CONCORDIENSlS 17 ON'T pay more than half a :deBar for a scarf---it isn't neces- sary, Don't pay less---it isn't sak Fifty cents ough to buy as Fashionable ana Durable a scad as any man wants on any occasion. It will buy just that if you ask lor an<l. get LeMar Cravats, sold everywhere lor Half a Dollar. They· re the same scarfs for which you have been paying twenty-five to ~ifty cent~ more. Eighteen separate processes enter into the making of LeMar Cravats. Thirty-six hands cut, line, sew and shape them. A won- derfully drilled organization creates !hem in a cravat studio, not a actory. Every part is as carefUlly nade aml correctly adjusted as at watch. That's why LeMar Cravats look aristocratic, knot grace .. fully, slip freely and wear----wear---wear .. Stull Bros., State St. Near Clinton, Schenectady, N.Y. &W Snappy Styles For Young Men We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YouNG MEN'S SHOES-and no where will you find such an array cf exclusive styles as we are showing. In our Fall Display rou will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the nevv shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes you'll find here, made in styles to please the young men of fashion. Exclusive styles is our hobby; styles you'll find in no other store. Convince yourself by a look at our display window'. Prices from $3.00 to $7 .oo . '\ ...___..!\\~ U BE R'S, 457 -State St. 1

.. 18 TilE UO~U0l{Bl1£N~IS A. R. Zl .. t_ a's O·rc· h·.• .·e.·st··r· a furnished music a:t Union Col- lege 1905 '06 '07 '08 '09 . - . ' ' ' ' BEST DANC.E MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-W Onl_l' I liP Best SE'ndcP. .No Better for Concnt Office and Res.: 3~ Plain St., Albany, N.Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine 1\!letropolitan Service ~-----------------------------~ SANDERS The Oldest Optical Establishment in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among the . College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY May be you know us and our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of I ,, rfhe Schenectady ·Clothing Co.\ ; (Gibson, Walton & Hag.adorn, Edison Hotel Building) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We i are traveling companions spreading the l gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for ' College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD u HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street wood Bros. . .. Men's Outfitters Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's I<id Gloves Sole .A.g~J.1t~ fqr Star Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones

(I THE CONOORDIENSIS 19 STUDENTS We Want Your Banking Bu~iness The Schenectady Trust CoUtpany 318-320 State St. Horne Phone 1191 H. R. Phone 1764-W Compliments of · H. S·. WEEKS Artistic Decorator-Dealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall Paper, Wood Mantles; Etc. Job Work i\;eatly Do1:e , 106 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. GOLlDMA_N Caterer a:n.d IDalicatessen )»erves and ~ells @ver 'ltifty Varieties of ~andwiches 107 3ay Street Both Phones ''Stearns-Foster'' $10 Cotton Felt Mattress They measure almost up to the $15 Standard! If you wish something that is sanitary, comfortable, altogether good and quite unusual in its quality and make up, you will not be disappointed in these mattresses. A. BROWN & SON CO. 302·304 State Street ~row-~1@ ;BtoJ Albany's Leading Eye Glass Makers 68 No. Pearl St., ALBANY, N. Y. Under Kenmore Hotel .L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collar! in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N.Y. .. Some students work because they have to ; some because they think the}r ought to ; some because they like to. In any case it is easier if they lead the \ELECTRIC LIFE\ SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIETY PRINTING The Evening Star Job Department· • \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206

.. On The Hill Hart, Schaffner &Marx Su~ts are deservedly. popular. We sell them. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaks\ any they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don•t all say so. Copynj;ll· UJ09 by Hart Schaffner & Mar,. and H. S. &· M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-242 STATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLOTHIER

