-THE CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXXIII JUNE 9, 1910 NUMBER. 26 . ··. '· .. - -.·. ' ~· <' -~ ' . ·)' ., ! ' ·\ ' . ' ~ ....... - . . ' . • ··.' . The One Hundred and Fourteenth Commencement of Union College

'1'' l I I~; < . < > 'y ,,. < I . · . '.. : . · ... , \__ > { l> 1 B X B 1.~ • II • • • UNION UNIVERSITY •• CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHl\llOND, D. D., ·Chancellor UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. The College offers undergraduate courses as follows: 1.-GLASSICAL COURSES-· Leading to the De- gree of A. B. A. Greek is required for admission to this Course. B. Greek is begun at entrance and is required for four years. 2.-LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE--Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. This Course offers Latin without Greek. :3.-SCI ENTIFIC COURSE-Leading· to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater part of the \vork of tne last two years is elective. 4.-GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. During the third and fourth years two alterna_ tire options are offered in this Course. Option A-In which the fundamental princi- ples of advanced technical subjects receive 1 emphasis. Option B-In which studies are offered which give a preparation for engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. ri.~ -GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE, of six years, leading to tQ.e degrees of B. E. and Ph. B. This Course prnvides college and tecnnica;l training by combining Courses 2 and 4. G.-SANITARY ENGINEERING COURSE-Lead- ing to the Degree of B. E. 7.-ELECTRICAL E~GINEERING COURSl'J- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers also graduate courses in Eng-ineering of one year's resident study, as follows: S.-Graduate Course in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. C. E. ~L-G1·aduate Course in Electrical Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. E. E. For catalogue, address FRANK COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. There Must Be a Beginning Why not make it novv? ~I .oo will open the account Interest hegins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MJEDICAL COLLEGE-· Instru-ction by Lectures, Recitations, Clinics, Laboratory Worl\, Practical Den1onstrations and Operatlons. Hospital and Laboratory advantag~es exceHent. Catalogues and circulars containi~ng full inforn~ a- tion, sent on application to WILLlS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, A'l b.any, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW. SCHOOL-This departn1ent of the University is located at Albany, u ear the State Capitol. It occupi~es a building wholly devoted to its 1 use. The course leading to the deg-ree of LL. B. is two years, each year is divided in to two semesters. EXPENSES-Matriculation fee, $}0; tuition feP, $110. For catalogue or othe1· inforn1ation, ad- dress ALBA~Y LA vV SCHOOL. John J. Hughes, Secretary, Alban\· ~. Y. \ ' DEPARTMENT OF PHA:RMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Exer_ cises held in AI bany Medical Col lege buil di ug·. Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of six and one-half months each. Fees eio·htv ' :::> ~ dollars per term. For ca tnlogue giving full i nfor- m::ttion, address THEODORE .J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., Albany, N. Y. Secretary. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YATES' BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State (jf Excellent Dandng Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connec- tion with house 29 FRONT STREET, SCHENECTADY

·t I I l· > j l r \ I I 'l'HE UUNCORDIENSlS THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N.Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FR:ED'K W. ROCKWELL fbunday Evening iilinner Special Orchestral Programme fbupper aft~r the iPlay Masic in Grill begins at 10.30 'IDinner Music in Grill Friday and Saturday Evenings ii)inner Music iilaily 6. 3·0 to 8.30 o'clock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S EUROUEAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broa·d1way and Maid,en Lane GENTL~EMEN ONLY ALBANY, N. Y. 250 Rooms LADIES RESTAURAINiT ATTACHEO SPECIAL NEiW RATHSKELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Room Twenty-:five Private Dining Rooms WM. H. KEELER, Prop., Annex, 507 and 509 Broadway COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of Caps9 Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities fr .. )m the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you m:ay happen to want in PURE DRUGS GOOD CIGARS KODAKS ;PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYLER'S BONBONS and CHOCOLATES Lyon Drug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 714 Hamilton Street 13 McClellan Street A. G. SPALDING & BROS. The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES ·1 F y· 0 U ~~~ ~n;~~~ Athletic Sport)'OU should have a copy of the ~palding Catalogug. It's a complete encyclopedza of WhtJt's New in Sport and is sent free on request. A. G. Spalding & Bros. NEW YORK BUFFALO SYRACUSE

4 Student Furniture THE UONOOI~DIENSIS STU~EN!S furnis~ing th,ei.r o~n. roorr:s will be Interested 1n our d1splay for their especial benefit, from which we quote: Strong Iron Cuuches, $2.J5 Reading Tables, $3.50 to $1 0 Com,plete with Mattress, 4.l5 Writing Desks, 3.50 to 24 The Wallace C:o. College Chaps A RE Charter Members of our Fashion Club. To them is the Style World greatly indebted for raiment that is new, distinctive and novel. A.tnble in in hours of ease and stroll thru our smart shop. It's our own desire to make y~u take notice. With the styles of the day we're after you. With such classy haberdashery the other shops come after us. Mayhap they will show what we show, but we'll show it first. That's reason enough. : : : : : : : : : : : 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse Bow ling Alley · FRED TH~1LMAN Caterer for fVeddings, Receptions, Etc. Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. GA.TES., Proprietor Cigars Cigarettes • • • \ lee Cream and lees constantly on lzand RES'J'AURAN1~ 238 State Street .. • Both Phones W. J. FRIDAY Van Curler Opera House First Class Drugs .. 1 ; , ' l ·I \ i I, i ( I , I i ,{ I; t

I.- I .. l ; ~i- .·~l • l ,, .. 1 l ·I \ i I, i ( I , I i ,{ I; t THE CoNcORDIENSIS VOL. XXXIII UNION COLLEGE, JUNE 9, 1910 No. 26 OLD UNION'S 114th COMMENCEMENT One More Class Joins the Ranks of Union's Alu111ni . COM M ENC.EMENT PROGRA.M .. Sunday, June 5. 7:30 P. ·M.--~Baccai:aureate.Serman by President Richmond, in the First Presbyterian Church. Monday, une \:; 2:00 P. M.-Meeting of the Board of r.rrustees, at Si:liman .Hall. 7: 30 P. ·M.-·Extemporaneous Prize Debate, and Junior and Sophomore Prize Oratory. Tuesday, June 7. 9: 00 A. lVI.--tl\'Ieeting of the Phi Beta Kappa and ~Sig:;::na Xi Societ:es. 10: 00 A. M.-Meeting of the Board of Governors. 10:30 A. M.-Meetin.g of the Board of Trustees, Silliman Hall. 10: 30 A. M.-· Annual Meeting of the General Alumni Association, College Chapel. l'HE BACCALAUREATE S:EHMON. T.b e OlJe n-ing exerc'ses of Old Union's one hun- dred and fourteenth ·com.:mence1nent were held on Suitday evening in the First Presbyterian ·Chnrcb when President Richmond delivered his fir.3t bac- calaureate ,sermon to the members of the gradu- at:Lg class. Despite the inclemency of the weaLher, aU the seniors were present in c::tps and gowns an.d the church was weL filled ·by the Union students and friends of the college. Dr. lllichiDond took as his text: \Behold I have set ~efore thee an open door.\ During the course 12: 00 JL-Bal.oting for one Trustee to succeed Thomas Weir, ''76. 12:30 P. lVI.-Alumni Dinner (prov:ded and served by the ladies of Schenectady). Schenectady Arn1ory. <? 2:45 P. M.-Baseball Game, Union vs. Colgate, on the Campus. 4: 30-•6: 00 P.· M.-.President's Reception, Pre~­ ident's House. Wednesday, June 8. 10:00 A. M.----1Com.mencement Exercises in the First Presbyterian Church. Chancellor's Address by Count von Bernstoff, German Ambassador to the United States. 8:30 P. lVL-Senior Class Reception. College Library. 3:00 P .. M.-Grove and 1 Class Day Exerc·ses by the Graduating Class. fields, and woods, and streams, and harvest; so Christ upea the door into his spiritual world- ~ he ki11gdom of w:sdom and peace and purity and spiritual harvest. \To lhe door of the Spiritual Kingdom Christ t.as P~\.~ key. The key to the door i.s in his pierced l1and. When we look back and see what Christ has done in the world, we realize n1ore and 1nore how crue this is. The doors that have been openeil into the great kingdom have been opened b.v 1Christ. Before he came, a Chinese waL of exclu.si~n stretched around the privileged land of ~~ght and liberty. The history of Christianity in of the f)errnon.· he said in part: the WLrld has been a story of the opening of ''Ju;:;t as ·God sets before his children an open doors. The whole missionary movement with u~ door iHto his physical world, the k:ngdoms of immense significance-- has its point in th1s.''

6 THE CONCORDIEN818 Opp·O•rtu nity. In speaking o·f the opportunity which the open door. :brings aboat, Dr. Richmon:d said: 'Let us mark sec.ond that the open door means ,jo opportunity -the greatest thing on earth-the M·cKean :presided, introducing the speakers and makin-g the announcements. !Mus:c was furnished between the contests by Zita's orchestra. Sophomore C-ontest. The program was started with tlie sophomore ~contest, A. Winfie:d Trainor of ·West Leyden .be- ing the first spea1ker introduced. Mr. ·Trainor took as the subject of his oration, \The Obliga- tions of the Superior Man.\ 'He showed what the superior man, who has had unusual advan- tages is duty bound to do, and what is re~quired of him by society. Kenneth .E. Walser of Cohoes, the second speaker, won second prize in the contest on the oration, \The .Stranger Within Our Gates.\ He told of the injustice which the .immigrants receive thing men long for-· the most universal ·Cry-a. chance to grow-to expand-ito come to his own. There is the kingdom of knowledge. How men have longed to enter it and explore its ·fields. Some men are boTn into it but how many are like foundlings iaid outside the doors. :Some of them never get inside the walls, and d:e in t1·1.eir ignorance. Others storm the ~ates .and beat in the doors like .Abraham Lincoln with his one year's schooling; .seizing every book he could laJ hands on and spelling them out at night 1J3 the light of the 'ire. in our e-ountry, US 1 ng as a particular example \Every open -door is an oppor:tun~ty. $t is a · the manner in wh~ch they are treated by the standing invitation-a beckoning hand, a provoca- large .contracting .c-ompanies. tion to enterprise. IJames H. Potter of Olenville, who won first ''And mark you, it is a great and rare privi- prize, delivered an excellent oration on ''Chang- lege. This very kingdom of knowledge-how ing Ideals in Public tLife.\ He said that the small a number .ever have op·portunity to enter time of graft and corrupf on was gradually paas- :t let alone exp_ore it-or the whole great Empire ing away, and that the wLy politician was now of Spiritual truth of which the kin.gdom of knowl- being forced to make way for th.e man of un- edge is a part. How straight is the gate and how spQtted character in public life. narrow the way and how few there be that The oration of tB. Raymond -Butler of .John3~own find it.\ was delivered in good form and was well re- ln closing ''Prexy\ addressed a few pers·onal ceived by the audfence. H's subject, \A p:~ea tFor words to the 1nembers of the graduating ~lass. In an American Merchant ~Marine,\ was well treated heartfelt words be said that he was proud of the and the importance of an efficient merchant cla.ss of 1910 and was glad to send them forth · m.arine was clearly shown. into the world and call them Union men. He Juni,or Oratoricals. exl) ressed the earnest hope that as . theJr went forth from college they would live up to the idea_s of manhood taught at Qtld Un~on, and would ev~r remain worthy sons of their Alma lVlater. ORATORICAL CONTESTS. Bartlett, Faust and Potter First .prize Winners. The annual junior and sophomore or_atorical con- tests in connect:on. with the prize for extem- poraneous speaking were held in the First Pres- byterian Church on Monday evening. The opeak- ers all showed the results of .careful training, and the evenin·g was a pleasant one for t.b.e large audience whi-ch -was present. As usual Professor In the junior c-outest Otto A. Faust of Schenec- tady, who delivered a masterful oration on the subject, \Wanted-Doctors was awarded first prize. .He showed: the great need for well trained doctors ~n both our own country and u.n_,Chris- tianized lands. He showed how greaLy the med- ical profession was abused in heathen lands and ended with an app.eal to the young nHm and young women of our America colleges to invest their lives in a profession ·in which they could be ot the mo.st account. 'The second prize w_as won by Manly L. l\Iackey of 1Coblesk:ll, whose subject was, \A Plea Fo\!' Individual ~Thought.\ The oration was well writ- ten and showed the result of careful thought.

7 iThe other tW{> eontestants weli'\e Harry ;S. Rey- ·been announced until that time. Arthur n.o·lds of !Schenectady, who spok:e on \'l Un- fl.edged Professtonaly Man,\ sh.-Qi'OV.'hiJ.g the evil ef- rects ·of aUowing poorly traine!l young :r..J.€1!1 to enter any of the prominent pr{)]essions, and .flar- o]d ·E. Blodgett of .Schenectadr, Vi 7 llO delivered a well written oration. on '\TJJ;e <Criter~on of PiabUc Opinion .. \ Chaffee and Harry Gordon of SchenectaL' ~· sp·oke on the affirmative of the question, whil n T. D. Wa~ser of !Cohoes and Roland lVL Bartlett of Giendale, Mass., defended the negative. The debate was a good one and the ,1nesticr') was well handled by all four speai{ers. T!H! CLASS OF 1910 The Exte1m.poraneou s Con test. At the close of the sophomore oratoricals Prof McKean announced as the s~bject for the ex- temporaneous ·debate the qae:::;tion: \ReEolvell. That woman should be given ·e·qua: suffrage with . man in the U'nited ·states.!'' He .stated that although the general subject 'had been announced some time before, the de1finite subject had· not ,, first prize was awarded to Mr. \ffiaflt.ett and th J second to ~Mr. Gordon. ·The board of 'judges who awarded the prize.~ \ in all three contests consisted of H. F. ~uosher '90, of. Rochester, chairman; Dana L. Wood., \:4 -of :S<;henecta~y, and Rev. A. Pierce, '03 of R'ly Shore, N. Y.

8 'I'HJ~; (,:0~ .... , .... 0. ·I•D·II;o-,~T~I\ ~ . .) ,;, ~ ., - . . . \ ' . ~ ..i... \l ~ ·~ The Concordiensis A Literary an(l News Weekly Publi:sbed hy THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY. ITintered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDI'l'OR-IN-CHIIDF, W. D. Cavert, '11. AS'SISTAN'l, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, B. A. Gray, '11. BUSINESS MANAGER, A. It. Chaffee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIA'l'E EDI'.rORS, R. P. Patterson, '12. H. A. Schermerhorn, '12. K. E. Walser, '12. REPOitT'ORIAL STAI~jj\ H. T. Case, '13. A. G. Duane, '1:3. F., S. Harris, '13. A. L. Oppenheim, 'i12. M. G. Wend, '13. COLLEGE DIREC'.rORY. ~ A. D. Brown . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Captain Football •...• H. \V. Baker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :Manag€r 1 H. R. ~Hcks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Captain Basketball. . • . G. C. Atkin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :Vlanager 1 S. V. Travis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Captain 'l 1 rack ....... . W. D. C'avert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :Manage:r 1 T. G. Dunn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Captain Basel>all ....• T. .11. To-wnsend . . . . . . . . . . . . Manager 1 0. A, FnnHt ............... . Y. M. C. A .... D. R. Finley ............. . President Sen·.eta l'Y 1 C. F\. Duelu;<'herer . . . . . . . . . President llonor Court \V. D. Ca vet't, '11. ............. Secretu·y Terrace Connell j S. .)I. Ca vert, '10 ............ , . President ~ H. H. Grover, '10 ............. Secreta1·y 1 E. D. J;~ink . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . :Manager Musical Clubs Glee, :S, c. Miller .............. Leader Concordi(msls 1911 Garnet .• Press Club .... }lnndolin, R. H. Tie bout ....... Leader j W. D. Cavert, '11. ..•...•...•.•. Editor ~ A. It. Chaffee, '10 .............. Manager 1 J. Beakley, '11. ......... Editor-in-Chief T . .)J. Townsend, '11 ......... Bus. Mgr. 1 0. A. Faust ............... . A. L. Oppenheim .......... . TERMS: President Secretary 011e SUbSCription e •••••••••••••••••• ,., •••••••••• , .$2~00 Single Copies .................•.............. . 10 ·Cents. Publication Office, Schenectady Evening Star. THE C.LAS1S 'Tb:e class of 1910 has ceased its 0 F 1910. college career. Over fifty ::11en have received their diplomas and no longer ex- perience, except in fond recoHection, the joys. and sorrows of undergraduate days. We who are left behind are the losers, and we realize that the loss is not a smaH one. '.It is, indeed, witr.L· deep regret that we who have been their compalilions for one, two and three years, see th.em go, r-o:r to all it means the loss of many tried and true friends. Since its birth the class of 1910 has striven for the interests of the college with un- wavering loyalty and faithful spirit. We feel th.at the work which they have done for the co:Iege during their und.ergraduate days will not SO(:)n be forgotten lby us. who were their fellow-students. For the sake of our beloved Alma Mater we moat earnestly hope that we who are 1.eft behind may be imbued with the spirit Of the ·Class Of 1910. During the coming college year, may the class of 19,11 show themselves worthy of the mantle that has fallen upon them. 'The class has left us, but its greatest work for the college is still to come. Dropping the responsibi:ities as students, the m~n of 1910 have assumed a responsib:Uty which seems to us as great, if not far greater. The roll of Union'sc alumni i:3 lonf~ and as illustrious as it is long. Every man in leaving college is put on his mettle that he ;nay in no way :essen its fame. To her students old Union has freely given all she has. .She ex- pects, and has a right to expeet, that the deeds of her sons may .be worthy of the training which she has given them. Knowing th.e mem~bers of the graduating class as we do, we may rest assured that they will acquit themselves well. 'They have already mani- fested on the ca::npus and in the class ~·oom enough of what are called the principles of suf!- cess to make tlieir progress sure and glorious. Men of 1910, the undergraduate body bids yoh farewell. You have done well in college, your training scr ... ool for life's work. May the same success attend you in the life upon which you are entering. I \

I \ PH:J: ~BETA KAPPA. Tuesday morning the Phi .Beta· Kappa iSociety held ita annual meeting for the eiliection of offi- -cers and reception to the newly e:ected members. The two mmbers of the senior class elected to th society were 1Samue1 1M. !Cavert and Roscoe Paul. The off:cers which were elected for the ensuing year are as follows: President, Professor J·ohn, I. Bennett; vice ,president, Professor Frank Coe ~Barnes; treasurer, R. J. L,andon; rec-ording secretary, 1Samuel lVi. Cavert; corresponding secretary, Professor :S. G. Ashmore. S.IGMA XI M·EETING. The rn.eeting of !Sigma Xi was held .at the same time in .s:llim.an .Hall when twelve new:y elected members were formally received. They were: Roland M. 1 Bart1ett, R. S. Bennett, J. H. Bovier, A. J. Horn, ·P. 'F. 'Shutler, W. J. Becker, vV. E. Paul, E. 'B. Whitmore, all of the class of 1910: Instructor J. A. C. ca·.lan, ·Professor W. A. Garrison and William Allen ()f the class of 1895. Tte newly elected officers of the society are: Pres!dent, Dr. Edward 1Ellery; vice president, Prof. 0. J. ·Ferguson; recording secretary, In- structor J\1. B. King; secretary, Instructor J. H. Cunningham; treasurer, Prof. ·Howard Opdyke. ---------- IMPORTANT MATTE,R.S -DISCUSSED BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES. _, __ _ Seward's p.Jace Taken by Bailey. At the meeting of the B·oard of Trustees of the college ~any impcrtant matters were -orought up. ~Hon. iFrank Bailey of Brooklyn was elected a trustee to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Ge,orge ·E. Seward of ·New York City. One of the most important matters which was discussed was the establishment of a night course which might possibly lead to a degree. This would be of great advantage especially to tlie young men of :Schenectady, and to all those who wish to work their way through college. 'No definite action, however, was taken about the a1atter. College Commons Discussed. Another matter of importance, especially to the non-fraternity students, was, also, discussed. r:rhis was the establi:shment o!f a co[ege com~ons at wtich the students might obtain their meals on the campus at reasonable rates. A petition had been previously drawn. up by the me~bers of the athletic tearns and the non-fraternity .stu- dents. Although no money was appropr:ated for the purpose, it is practica~ly eertain that sooner or later a college commons will be esta'blist.ed. President Richmond reported concerning the improvements Which have been made to the col- lege during the past year, and showed that the scandard of the college had been raised in a marked degree. 'He commended the student gov- ernment during the past year, and spoke t1ighly of the success of the honor system. ---------- GENERAL ALUMNI ASS.OCIATION. Adams Succeeds Wetir. At the meeting of the general Alumni Associa- tion which was held in the chapel on Tuesday morning, William P. Adama, '79, of Redhook, N. Y., was -elected to succeed Thomas Weir, '76. The officers who were elected for the coming year are: President, F. W. Cameron, '81, of Al- bany; vice president, Bishop 'Sheldon ·M. Gris- wold, '82, of sa:ina, Kan.; secretary, Robert S. G~lmons, '94, of Schenectady; treasurer, Charles E. Palmer, 1900., of Schenectady. The executive eommittee of the past year was re-elected. It consists ,of: Putnam Cady, '85; C. D. ·Lester, '70; W. :S. M·oEwan, '95; 1 W. W. Wem- ple, '86; H. S. Baehler ~ '01. ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET HELD IN STATE ARMORY. ----- Function a Gre1at Succ.ess. The ann·ual alumni dinner which was held in tte armory o·n Tuesday was considered by all to be one of the most successful ones ever hPld. Hundreds of old graduates were back, seat- ed with their ,classes, and the enthusiasm was unbounded. As they seated themselves at the tables, one class after another gave the old class yell, and

, I I I I' \ •, I . 10 'l'HE CON<J<.>l{l ·~~NSIS tl~.e hall was made to ring with the cheering. Yells were also given flor ·prominent persons ,present, after which all settled down to the task of disposing of tlHl good things provided by the ladies of the ·city. While interest was shown in all of the ad- dresses, the one by \President Richmond ap- peared to be the one most .eagerly looked for- ward to. When introduced by the toastmaster, [R,.o,bert J. '.Landon, president of the Alumni As- SQciation, he was welcomed with prolonged ap- plause. After the ba·n.quet speeches were m.ade by Rob- ert J. !Landon, '80, presid·ent of the general . Alumni .Ass•oc~ation, ·President 1Charles A. Rich- mond and •Hon. ~rank !Bailey, treasurer of the banquet. .Besides these speakers, representatives from the different reunion classes were also cal:ed upon. President Richmond in speaking of the financial progre.ss of the cDllege said that Union's endow· ment bad been increased durin~ the past year by $200,000. 1 He reported that ov€r $30,000 had .been raised toward tne new \gym\ and that nearly $7,000 tad been raised by the ·Citizens of 'Sche- nectady t•oward beautifying its ca.a1pus. Count V-on Bernstoff, the hDnorary chance:lor, arrived a:t the Armory during the midst of the speaking. 1His appearance was greeted with cheers and applause. A.fter be:ng int:roduced to the alumni the count, accompanied by \Prexy\ and other officials of the college, left at once for \hi 11.\ President Richm•ond's Re:c,eption. After the a:u.;:uni banquet and Golgae baseball game on Tuesday afternoon, President and Mrs. Richmond held a recept~on at their home on the campus for the members of the graduating class. Count von 1Bernstoff was ,present at the recep- tion and an opportunity o·f meeting him was given to all prese·n t. 114TH COM M EN·GEMENT EkERCISES ENl'ERTAIN LARG~E AUDIENCE. Count Von Bernstorff Receive:s Honorary Degree. The n1ain event of commencement week-grad- uation of the seniors-occurred Wednesday morn- ing. The weather conditions proved favorable and the 'Se~ting capacity of the First Presby- ter~an tChurch was taX:ed by the alumni and friends of the college. ~ Count Heads Processi·on. iShort~y after ten o'·clock the academic proces- si-on, headed by Dr. Richm-ond and Count Von Bernstorff, entered the ·church. The rest of the procession was ·Composed ·of the seniors and the members of the faculty. President Richmond presided during the ex- ercises, introduc:ng the speakers, conferring the degrees and a warding the prizes. The exercises were opened with the singing of the One Hun- dred iS eventeen:th Psahn . Blatchfo.rd Prize Contest. The oratorical contest for the •Blatchford prizes then began. The :first speaker was Roland M. Bart~ett of Glendale, !Mass., whose subjeet was, \The Ethics of Democracy.\ He stowed that a democracy, when rightly adm~nistered, is one of the noblest forms of government, and said that the demagogue and the ,party 'boss and hLs :na- cbine are about to disappear and the brother- hood of man is about to dawn. William IL. Cavert of Charlton spoke on \The Real Prolb~em of Country Life.\ 'The future of the farm, he said, was dependent on the in- telligence of the farmers. ·He then showed that in country rre the real proble:n is the country school. He showed the evils of the present sys· tem and advocated one consolidated school in plac-e of several small ones. \The .Modern Social Idea~\ was the subject of the oration of Howard !C. IMaeomber of Delanson, who won second prize. !He said that the ideal seeks to bring about the uplift of humanity. Roscoe A. Paul of I.AJthenJS, 'Who spoke on \Crim~nality in tte United tJSates,\ showed r.hat crime is now increasing in our country. He said that crime could be reduced by training the youth pr·operly. iHe, also, deplored our system or criminal procedure, and advocating the method of the German courts where prosecution takes ~lace immediately. The last speaker, .Sa::nuel M. Cavert of Char> ton, won first prize in the contest on his ora- tion, \Ethlcs and .Social !Service.\ He sh-owed how closely the idea of service was connected with ethics. iHe pleaded for the application of

THE CONCORDIENSIS - 10 a the pr~nciplea of ethics at the bar, in the pulpit and in all other :fields, of activity. \Pu:bUc life to-day,'' he said, \needs men of high ethical idea:s. Therefore, yoi.:lng man, entering. on the threshold of public life, be fearless-- fear nothing, except to do evil. Chancellor's Address. [n introducing Count Von Bernstorff, President Ri·chmond said: \You have already won your way into our hearts and :I am sure that we will aU be delighted to listen to your address Oiil- Gerrn.an universities. In speaking ab-out the un:versities of his rr-x- tive land, the count said in part: \The two ideas, essentia: to the making· of great universities are,-the right of the teacher to be rree in what he says and the liberty of the student to learn from the bas:_s of German aca- demical life. The teacher is expected to be tn1e to the truth he sees and is thought false to it if he dare not give expression to what he be- uiev.eB. On the other hand the student may re- tuse to .be satis~fied with the voice of authority u,pon any subject because be'ng a student he is free to learn, free to ·questi-on, free to think. This old intellectual ~reedom of the universities was the starting point fr·om which the German nation proceeded to religious freedom, rberty .of speech and liberty of the ,press. In other coun- tries political freedo1n is o_der than ac1dernical freedom. In Germany, however, intellectual free- dom was the mother of political freedom. That is why our un:versities · still to-day have great influence and wh.y professors have played a great par L in German history. \The elements of strength ·Of the Gerroan uni- versity are chiefly the inner freedom they enjoy and the spirit of investigation among :ts mem- Lers. The German university is a state institu- tion. It is established and supported by the gov- ernment and under its control, but it retains some not unimportant features of the original corporative character. lit stil: p-ossesses a certain degree of. autonomy. 1 It elects its own officer.3, the rector, tlie senate and the deans and also exerci.ses a considerable influence in the a,ppoint- :rnent of professors. By its power to confer the Doctor'a Degree and appoint the private docents the university dete-r·mines the circle from which the meml>ers of the faculty are usually drawn. In addition to this it receives from the government the right to nominate candidates for the different chairs. ''The German system, like· all institutions in this world,. naturaUy has its shadowy sides, but I do not wish to dwelJ. on them., as I to-day in- tended to draw your attention to the elen1ents of strength in the 1 German university. \In the near future an 'Amer~can Institute' will be founded in connection with the Berlin uni- versity. The idea of foun.ding this institute was conceived by Friedrich Althoff, recently deceased, who for many years occupied a leading position in the .R·oyal Prnss~an Department f.or Public Instruction. The .establishment of an. union .of all scientifi? eft'orts was the aim of his life. He worked for an effective inteCectual intercourse among nat! ons, because he considered it the best means for bringin.g the1:n nearer together in the d·omain of common human interests. The ex- chage of ·German an.d A1nerican university profes- sors was the first realization of this idea. When ·Harvard Un:versity conferred the honorary de- gree of a doctor upon F. Althoff, President Eliot referred to hiln as 'the father of the idea of exchanging professors.' Enmity has followed Alt· hoff. But his efforts for an in tellec.tual inter- course between America and 'Germany raise him far above party strife. His influence has not departed with him, but ia still keenly felt. The American Institute was probably his last desire and his last sche1ne. Its object is to furnish a. center for the furthering of the· intellectual rela- tions between the United !States and Germany, by an interchange o.f the intellectual works of both nations by distri'buting correct information re- garding the:r coH€ges and universities, but above all bY an exchange of teachers and students. \When the 'Anerican Institute' has once begun its work it is to be hoped that more wealthy friends of the id.ea it re,presents will come for- ward in both countries and endow the Institute with funds. If t1·1is should be the case the Insti- tute will in future be able to offer scholarship.s Lo American students who are desirous of study- ing in Gennan-y. It 1s obvious that this would

i i 10 b THE CONCORDIE.NSIS be a splefldid development .of the idea of ex- Charlton <Callan, lB. 18. in 0. E., O·S'ear ·Frederick changing professors, which has proved so sue- von Voghtlander, iM. IE. C€ss.ful in both c0untries.\ Students Receive D'i plomas. When Count von Bernstorff finished, President Richmond introduced !Dean Benjamin H. Ript.on, who, on behalf of the faculty and boar·d of trus- tees of Union, presented the candi-dates for de- grees. The president then conferred upon the following the various degrees and presented them with their dip:omas: Bachelor of Arts-4Samuel IMCICrea Cavert, Ar- thur Russell !Chaffee,, Roscoe !Almond Paul, Ptilip Foster Shutler, •Harry G. Va:n Deusen, Theodore Demarest Walser. Bachelor of Philosophy-;Roland :Miller Bart- lett, .William Lane Gavert, Johnson :Potter Hallen- be-ck, ·Edward •B. Irish. !Master of E:eetrical Bngineering-.James Han- nah !Cunningham, 1B. E., George Wi 1Uam Roosa, B. E. Honorary .oeg·re~es •Co·nfelr.red; ·Doctor of Laws---l)Count Johann V<(}Il Bern.stroff, ambassad-or of the 'German IE~mpire to the United States, graduate of the University or Berlin, ex- perielil!Ce·d d-iplomat, :earnest student of the sci- ence of g·overnment, ;a:nd who by h's wisdom, his ~ . unfailing tact and liiS generous 1lu1na11. sympathies has strengthened the bonds of friend ship -be tween two great nations,. I admit you tD the degree of Doctor of Laws. Doctor of Science-William LeRoy Emmett of :Schenectady, graduate of the 1Nava11 .Academ.y at Annapolis, man of liberal _culture., 'Skilled .. N the 1 Bachelor of Science-William ·Alfred Ackroyd,·., processes of sciehti<fic i:n:vestigation~who by his Albert ,Edward !Carmichael, Harry Gabriel Cop- ~ ori-inal work has IDu:tiplied the a,IlP:l:icafons and Ion, Henry Pros,p€r. Stewart, William Ferguson,. extended the boundaries of the realn of science, Ja.:.nes Mason Hotchkiss, tHo race King Hutchens, [ admit you to to the . degree o~ .J)oc<tor ·of William IHerman .Ladue, ;Howard C. Macom.ber, :S-cience. Arthur ~cuthbert Potter, Horace \Eggleston Ved- Doct·or of D~v1nity-The Rev. Charles 'Temple, der. As ·of the c:ass of 1909, !Charles Lawrence graduate of Union .!College .in the e!lass of 1882, Mead. fin~shed .scholar, able theologian,. convincing Bachelor of En.g~neering_JWilliam Joseph An- .. preacher of the gospel, faithful· minister of Jesus I derson, Walter .J. Be~cker, Raymond S. Bennett, ·~ Christ, ~ admit you to the degree of Doctor of Thomas ·Bernard· Bergan,. John. 'Ha .. nmond Bovl.er, Divinity. -· John Oide:on !Charest, Archibald Reid Dennis, George Adolph Dillin~er, :Harley Dunbar, Harlan ·Haviland·Grover, Adam John Horn, Stephen Dunn Kelley, John J. •M·oManus, ·Arnold Edward Kriegs- mann, Wil.iam BauctlB ·Neils·on, Jr., W lliam E-1· ward :Paul, 1Edward Delavan Ransom, ·Har-old T. Scheper, ·Harold E. ;Sea:nans, .Richard Parsons Sears, Raymond Seem, Aaron. H ... 1Shern1an,. Phfip ]'~aster Shutler, N· .. Waldrop. SlB.tter, C~rson E1- wards Smith, Burr Manlow ·!Stark, Pau!o Floriano de Toledo, Edmund 1 Brown WhiLcomb, Peter J. Whitmore, William Dew:tt ZieJey, Juds·on Zim- mer. As of the ~Class of 19·08-IErnest J. Fuller, Ray- mond Shelley. As of the Class of 1909-Leo .H. Perry, H.:trry A. Schaupp. Master of Arts----Leslie !Nathan Broughton, A. B. Master of Scien.ce-iRaymond S. Bennet, Ph. B. Master of Civil ·Engineering-.J.ohn Albert ·Confe:l\'red l:n Absentia. Doctor of Letters-The R.t. Rev. ~Bishop Daniel 1Sylvester Tuttle, bishop of !M'ssoll~t, Doctor of . Divinity. Presiding bish-op of the Protestant Epis- . copal !Church in the United States .of America. Doctor of Divinity-:'rhe Rev: WiUiam A. Wad- dell, of th€ . class. of 188 1 2. · Len:eoea, Erazil. . . ' ' Doctor of :Divinity-. 'The Rev. Harvey De Witt Griswold, class of 188.5. · ~Lahore, India. Dean of the Oriental faculty ·of 1 PUnjab UniV\ersity. Prizes Awarded. After the conferr:ng of the degre €S, President Richm{)nd awarded the prizes as foHows: Warner Prize-Roland M. Bartlett. Ingham Prize-IA.rthur R. •Chaffee~ ALen Essay Prizea-JTheodore D. Walser, first prize; 1Harry G. !Coplon, second; :Ed~ard B. Irif:\h, third. ,sophomore Oratorical Prizes-Janes H. Pott~r' first; Kenneth E. Walser, second.

THE CONCORDlENSlS 10 c Junior Oratorical Prizes-\Otto A. Faust, first; .Manly ,L. 1Mackey, sec-ond. iiDxternporaneous Debate Prize3~Roland M. Bartlett, first; .!Harry Gordon, second. All'son-~Foote Prizes-·· individual prize awarded to Sa:muel M. Cavert; society prize to the Phil- om:atheans. n:atchford Oratorical Prizes-Samue: M. Cav- ert; first; 'Ho:ward '0.- .Maco1nber, second. Daggett Prize-Samuel M. Cavert. Pullman Prizes-Samuel IM. Cavert a~nd Walter J. Becker. Silli:man Prize .Scholarship-David R. Finley. 'Speir Memor:.al Scholarsliip-' Allan E. Carmi- chae_. SAMUEL M. CAVERT, Winne~ of Ma~y Prizes. The Sen~{)r Ball which was he:d in the library -un Wednesilay evening was one of the most suc- cessful affairs of its kin~ ever held. The ball fbegan at 8:·30 and was the occasion of one of Po:rter .Memorial !Scholarships-Harry G. Cop- ton aud Horace E. Vedder. :S pHcial honors were a warded as foHows: In En:gLish, Edward .B. Irish; in history, Albert Ed- ward ·Carmiehael, both of this city; in math- ematics, Howard C. Macoillber, of Delans·on; in rph~losol1hy\ \Roland .M. iBarblett~ 10£ ·'Glendale\ Mass., and Samuel 'M. ICavert. At tlie close of the exerci3es all present arose and joined in the singing of :Alma Mater. The accompaniment was played by John Keyes Paige, the oilid organist who has played the Alma Mater song at every c-ommencement since his sopho- nlore year in oollege. BO~~N;D M. BaRTLETT, Awarded Warner Cup. th~ largest gatherings that has ever been held in the round building. The building was decorated by Quackenbush of Troy and mu3ic was furnished by Zita's Orches- tra. The several alcoves ·of the library were prettily fixed up b'y the different fraternities.

10 d THE CON·C·O·RDlENSIS VALEDICTORY. At the close of the Blatchford 'Oratorical '0on- test the valedictory was ·delivered. by Samuel ·M. Cavert of ~charlton. \llonored Gentlemen of the LBoarO. of Trustees: \It is a pleas.l!lre for me to have the privilege of bespeaking the gratitude of the c:as.s of :1910 to you for your service to our colleg·e. We re- gret that it has not been possible to kfrOW you face to face, but we assure you that our hea17t.iest With the assurance, therefor-€, that your service will n.-ot soon be forgotten, we bid you an affec- t~onate farewell. ''Fellow Classmates:- ''\Ve nre standing at the parting of the ways Behind us lies the retrospect of our years of com- radeship in aL the joys of college life. ·Before. us Hes the prospect of life in our varied spheres of work .. \We feel a thr~ll of sadness at leaving these appreciat:on goes out to you for your work in . college walls, but we are looking forward with Union's welfare. With feelings of esteem and eager anticipation to our w:ork in the world. Class- thankfulness we bid you farewelL ;,nates, we are facing this. great question, 'What \President Richmond:- \When you ~first -came to us last year you to1d us many tiines that your gr~at desire was that . . . we should find in you a friend. 'To-day we say to you that you have been to us a very real friend. Your friendship has been one of the joys of our college days. Your constant interest in all the interests that we hold dear and in our higt.est wei· fare have endeared you to u.s all. In the w·ords of the Latin poet, 'You have erect-€d a monumenl more enduring than bronze,' for in our hearts we shall carry an undying memory ··af your love . . . · .. and friendship. 'The class of 1910 pledges its . . . . whole-hearted support to your loyal work for our college. May 'God's richest blessing crown your labors! Farewell. ''Dean Ripton and .Esteemed Members of ::h t~ Faculty:- \We are glaQ. of this opportun~ty to express to you a few wo~ds of appreciation at the <!lose of our four years': instruction 'under your care. W·~ tear lest too often in the past we have seemed to fail in full appreciation of your unselfish ef· forts in our beha~f. The hours in your classroon·.:, may sometimes have .seemed arduous, but now that we shall no longer daily cross their thresho lt1 ·, we more fully real:ze the priceless value of your teaching and your counsel. !Some of the fondest ;nemor! es of our lives will be those of our fellovv- ship with you. \Words fail to express the fullness of our feel- ings. In the lines of another, 'Would I could utter all my heart can feel; But there are thoughts weak worda cannot reveal' ahal: be our motive in life.' Bear with me if I .say again that the real test of greatness is service. ·True greatness-.Ji.es--11Gt-in- -reputation, iu wealth, nor in power, but in service. Education means responsibility. A college education, if not used for the good of our .brother-men, is as desti· tute of real power as .a stagnant pool with no dam nor waterwheel. \The world needs trained men io serve; men, who dare to be unpopu:ar; men, who dare to be m.isrepresenteq., misunderstood, maligned, per- haps, if only the right ~e v~ndicated. Dare you be another John th.e Baptist denouncing evil at the court· of Herod? .Are we, as college graduates, ready to serve our fellow-men in the cause Df right? \As we leave this college, which has becoL.Ile fraught with fond memories as one of the dearest places in the ~:.orld, let us ,flee to it that we shall never fail to really mean with. our whole hearts those words of our class .so~g, 'Old Union, to thee we commend The love of young Nineteen-Ten.' \And uow, farewell! Happy have been our days together! Happy our comradeship! Happy will be the memories of college days and of the years spent in thy tender c~re, our .Alma Mater! / Class1nates and Alma ·Mater,. farewell!\ 0 w • t'll. GARNET SWAMPS C9LGATE. In the last bas~ball game ·of the season tt~e Garnet team .swa::nped Colgate by the score ~of 8 to 1. Union brought in five runs ·in the first inning and at no tim,e during the game was tbere any doubt as to its outcome.

'fHE U:ONU·ORDIENSlS 11 ,JVY AND c.LASS DAY EXERCI'S·ES EN1'ERTA.J·N A LA·RG:E Q.ATHERING. Exerc~ises Humorous and Interesting. Despite the fa.ct that the Ivy and Class Day Exercises were postponed until 1 W·ednesday after- noon owing to the indemency of the weather 'last Mo1H~.ay,. a ~&rg-e gathering of relatives and friends of the college students were present at · .. ~e exEl cisEs. AH of the spee.ches were well preparEd and the program was unusually enter- tain:ng and interest ·ng. President's Address. r.rhe exercises were opened by the president's address which was delivered by S. M. Cavert. After making some opening rem.arka, Mr. Cavert said: ' And now we are to cease to be undergradu- a~£s. We have s·i.riven to do our little part for UniDn's honor and welfare. In the cla3s of 19'1:1, as it succeeds us, we have full confidence that student affairs will be guided wisely and well. We of the class of 1910 go our separate ways, upart, yeL not afar, for we are one in spirit. And as the gladiators, when they entered the arena used to cry to the royal ·Caesar :n his imperia~ purple, 'te morituri salutamus,' so we, entering the battl8ifield of life would cry to th,ee, our IA.lma Mater, 'we who are about to leave salute thee.' ''But enough of these reminiscences and rev- eries. We w€lcome you, one and all, to the ,class d::ty and ivy exercises of 1910.\ Class History. Pre.:;ident Cavert then. introduced Roland ~M. Bartlett of G .endale,- the historian of the class of 1910. Mr. Bartlett in a humorous way recalled many anecdotes connected w~th different members of the class. After bringing in m.any personal hits .he recalled the history of the class as a whole, describing the glorious achievements of their un- dergraduate days. Pipe Orati,on. The pipe oration was delivered b-y William B. Nelson of Mechanicville, whD described the pleas- ure which the students had taken during their c-ollege course in smoking the pipe. ,He told with what longing eyes they had, aa children, watched th.eir fatih.er sitting in the easy cha~r and smok- ing his pipe, and great was their delight when they first began :co indu:g€ in the forbidden pleas- ure. The best paper for your correspondence is <Zrtanrs' llinen lla\tln We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal Garnet and Gold. The Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived. Tb~ Gl~ason Bo~k Co. VENDOME BUILDING w JUST ACROSS FROM GREEN GATE FINK'S PHARMACY THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP

'l' H E Cl) ~(Jlll{l> lEN~ 1~ Now 1{eadp! Glee Club and Football Pictures Also Artistic Frames WHITE, The Photographer PHILIP 1. HILL, College Reprens.entative ivy Ora:ti on. Howard Macomber of Delanson then d-elivered -, the ivy oration. He t-o~d how sacred the ivy 1lad always been held by ancient peoples, and ending bY comparing the growth of the ivy to Class Prophecy. The class prohpet, Henry P. Stewart of Bath, was then introduced. In imagination Mr. Stew- art took the audience with him to a reunion of the class in 1830, wh:ch was held in the new· the attaining of success in life. In closing, he \gym.\ In a humorous :manner he told what said: many members of the senior class had bBen doing. \Un 'on College is for you and for me a his- tory, a poem, a ]fe. It recalls the best and purest associations in the past and stands for He said that many names did not appear in the prophecy since it was written -on a holiday when he had no acceas to poJce records and rogues' 1nuch in our character, development and success. galleries. With hear\ts overflowing with love and g'ratitude Class Orator. ''re, the departing claas, salute her reverently and bid her Godspeed down the centuries.\ Ivy Poem. The ivy poe:n which was composed by Horace K. Hutchens of Pulaski was partly h.umorous and p1rtiy pretfly expressed sentiment. 'The class orator was Allan E. Car:rnichael of Schenectady. Fellowship was taken as the theme of the orat~o ... _ Class Song. The exercises were concluded by the singing of the class song, the words and -;:nusic of which were written by Henry P. Stewart. THE ROYAL Standard Typ'\Vriter Comprises every essential of the Ideal Writing Machine In a class entirely by itself, representing the nearest approach to typewriter perfection that has ever been attained. Simplicity Convenience Light Action Fine Work Durability The Real Standard of Today. Royal Typewriter Co. Royal Typewriter Bldg., New York 2~ EagleSt., Albany, N.Y.

13 UNIION'S TRACK S·EASON S·UMM.ARY OF BIASIE'B.Al 1 L SEASON:. A •S.UCCESS.FUL :QNE. iwo Re·cords B·rokein~ I Union 1- o,pp. West Point at ·West Point ..... ·I 1 1 8 The traek season has been an unusually suc- cessful one for the college. ·On .Saturday, June 4, the Garnet athlletes d·e~feated !Rutgers by the s:core of ·62 to 5.5. Two records were broken at this meet. Mar.sh, '12, established a new pole vau:t record at 10 feet, 61;8 inches, and La Barron; '1·3, pulled the two mile reiC'Ord dowln 'tto 10 minutes,. ~20 seconds. Pratt at Campu.s .............. 1 3 :1 5 ~utg~rs at New 'Bru~swick ..•.. •I 0 5 9 .·. lin the intercollegiate meet at Rome the Union athletes won first place and gave Colgate a close run for second. :Owing to the heavy ·condition of the trac, record break~ng was practically im- possible. N. ¥. U. at !New York . . . . . . . . 6 N:agara. at ·Ga;n~us ............ :\ 5 Colgate at !Hamilton . . . . . . . . . . . 4 HamHton at Clinton .......... ·l 3 .Ho-bart at 'Campus . ; .......... ·I ·6 Hobart at ~Geneva ............ 1 2 Rocb·ester at Rochester ........ ·1 3 Rocbes~ter at !Campus .......... ·1 1 bJdi.s()n C'lub at Oampus ...... : : 2·1 Colgate at Campu.s ............ • 8 I I 4 6 6 9 3 10 3 2 3 1 'The result of the meet was: Colgate, ·551.:5 point.s; Union, 4'2 1-5; ·Hamilton, 124 1-5; Roches- ter, 16 '2-5; Hobart, 5. Rutgers at Campus ............ , , 2 I To:tals ....................... 1 65 1-75-' Dunn for tCapt.ain. Travis for Captain. At a meeting of the team after the Oolgate At a m.eeting of the track s1quad when the pie- gam·e, rr·. G. Dunn of 'Hadley was elected captain ture was taken, ~- Vernon ·Travis was ele·cted for the coming year. During the past three captain. During the past three years Mr. Travis years !Dunn has been one of the 'varsity pitchers has been a ,prDmiBent member of the team. and a popular member .of the team. Use a Razor Thai Doesn't Hurt· Some razors skip light hairs and full heavy ones; some split hairs and leave a rough face ; others shave 111 iddli ng close, but at the expense of some good skin you'd like to keep. A KilN KUfftR SAFETI' RIIZOR 12 ready stroppe.d blades come with each razor, and the ample iKeen Kutter guarantee is back of each one. Silver-plated in Genuine Black cures all these common shaving troubles. It shaves a light or heavy beard equally well, and it never pulls or scrapes. Leather Case, $3.50; gold ... plated in Genuine English Pigskin Case, $5.00. Carry a Keen Kutter Pocketk•ife and be ready for the hundred and one times a day when a knife is necessary. All kinds. All styles. All prices. \The Recollection of Quality Remains Long After the Price is Forgotten.\ Trade Mark Registered. -It. C. Simmons. If not at your dealer's, write u•. SlltiMOIVS HARDWARE GO. (l11e.) S-t. I.Guis and New York, V. S. A.

'rHE OONOORDIENSlS One Block East of Central Stati0n L. D. Tel. in Every Room. Large, Bright Sample Rooms THE \NEW VENDOME\ AMERICAN PLAN FIRST GLASS IN EVERY PARTICULAR NEWLY FUR.NlSHED, RENOVATE.D · and ENLARGfD- All Outside Rooms WM. J. ·GLEASON $3.50 and up ~anager. Schenectady, N. Y. Orpb¢um Tb¢a.tr¢ f. X. Br~ymaytr : manil~tr Schenectady's Refined Amusement Palace High·ClassVaudeville and Moving Pictures , G:rtat~st Sllo:tv Ev~r- '0fftrul at Po.,ula~r Pr.icts lsn' ( it a Peaeh I Just received a full line of HIGH-ARCH OXFORDS 10 \\' 10 :··l STYLES f ~THE LATEST NO'N I STYL,.ES INTHE SUfi~ , $·4.00 Seethem•t HOE PATTON & HALL'S Schenectaday and Amsterdam STEE,fEL BRO'S. AL:BANY Suits and Topcoats for Young Men Destinctive and exclusive models that portray the high.st type of clothing for the spring and summer of nineteen ten . HATS, SHOES, GLOVES and furnishings of a sirnilar standard ~ ' Mail Orders Filled Tb~ St~rlin~ Jlrt Shop Wants every Union man to call and see their line of Pictures, Calendars, Cards and Christmas Novelties Never mind whether you wish to buy or not, \t·'ll be glad to see you. 212 Stat~ Str~tt • • Sch~n~clady. D. V. \V. & L. E. GURLEY TROY, N. Y. Civil and Mining Enginey~~:'.and Land Surveyors' Instruments t ' Also Scientific Books Send for Catalogues

THE 0 1 0N0'0RDIENSIS BABBITT & CO., sole agents for ROGERS, PEET & CO. BABBITT & CO. Specialize in Styles FOR YOUNG ME.N ,Styles having all the snap and ginger any young man wants---yet ,free from over- done freakish ideas. Young Men's Sui.ts, Topcoats and Raincoats of a Class Confined to this Store ....•... $1·0.00 to $25.00 BABBITT & CO., 451--453 Broadway. II CONCORD EVANSTON · with Ara•Notch with Buttonhole THE NEW ARROW COLLARS FOR SUMMER. High enough for looks-low enough for comfort and plenty of room for the tie to slide in. 15c. each, 2 for 25c. Cluett 1 Peal;>od:y & Co. Arrow Cn:ffs, 25c. ALBANY'S GREATEST CLOTHIERS Albany, N. Y. Catering to Ladies and Children VVeber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. Taylor, Resident Manager matin¢¢ Every Day Changin~ Prog·ram monday and Tbursday WITH Bi\J Extrava\Janza c.~mpany PRICES-Matinee 10 cents and 25 cents Night, I 5 cents to so cents Daily Matinee for Ladies and Children, 10 cents, reserved any part of the house SEATS NOW ON SALE .. 15

' r 1() THE CONCOl{DlENSIS WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Deco.ration of Any Descrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an ord~er placed direct with . will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouses and Nurseries: L. D. Pene 1413 N. Y. C. Arcade, State St Town of Florida and Hoffman, N. Y. Home 425 SIZES This is an exclusive feature of Regal Shoes, to which we want to call the attention of everybody in this town. In addition to the usual half and full sizes, Regals come in the one-quarter and thre€-quarter sizes in bet ween. This gives you just double the nu.ffiber of fittings found in other shces, ar:J mear..s all the difference between a near-fit and an exact fit. AreMadeln Quarter-Sizes Our Latest $350 $400 $500 Models In afford you exclusive custom style as well as perfrct custom fit. Our nr w Regal Oxfords are built on advance models designed by celebraterl N w York, London and Paris bootmakers for this season's wear. Come in and try them on. S. L. NUSBAUM 271 State SL·eet For the best things to eat we go to the Cr:own Hotel Opp. N. Y: C. Depot Wall and Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY Pass Word-Pschoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Saurkraut or Potato Salad NICHOLAUS erescent 440 State St. VJIUDBVILLB and PJeTURES See reading notice in amuse- ment column of daily papers for features. A Shave? Yes. 1'he Right Place to get it is at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just opp. Jay St. Geo. B. Cavanagh 314 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

THE C(>~C:ORlliEN8IS \ In the Heart of the Shopping District\ Comparison· is a Leaver That Turns Trade Our Way. WE ~ant you to con1e in and see ~1s-get .acquainted w1th us. and our n1ethod of do1ng bns1ness. We say con1parison is is the leaver that turns trade our way --vve kriow it for vve have been extending this same invi- tation to the pub1ic for a long time and by compari~on of qnalit~ 7 and price, we have built a business that we are proud of. Get in the \vay of buying by cornparison. Con1e in and let ns save yon a Do11ar. Cnston1 Tailoring Ready-to-wear 1\1en's Fnrnis11ings, Hats, Etc. Saul's 'mrs:E b 503-507 State Street, Schenectady G. WM. SLAGHT = - 6 FM Exclusive Styles For Young Men 17 STYLE-- Is our ~ass word; we cater to the Young Men's trade and aim to have the very latest at all times. Here you will find Oxford Style that is different from what you get in most stores; Oxfords that are curved and fitted to the heel in such a per .. feet manner that they do not slip or rub. The JUST WRI&HT Shoe We are showing a large variety of Tans in all the newest shades, also the New Grey Calf Oxfords, Gun Metals and Patent Colts, Button, Lace and Blucher. Prices· FroiD $3.00 to $5.00 HUBERS' New Location 173 Jay St. Four Doors From State

I : t i '· . it I· I • I ' ': I ,. ' 'l'HE CONC'ORDIENSIS A. R. Z ' l·ta'.s Ore· h·e.S·.tra furnished music at Union Col- lege 1905 '06 '07 '08 '09 . ' ' ' ' ' ' BEST DANCE MU,S:IC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-W Only tk~ Best Service. No Better fm' Concert Office and Res.: 3% Plain St., Albany, N.Y. ~--------~--------------------~ ! For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine Metropolitan Service SANDERS The Oldest Optical Est~ blishment in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit yo.ur trade TILLY I i i ' ,. i i: ., : ! I : May be you know us and our manner of doing things. May he you have heard of \rfhe .Schenectady Clothjng Co.'' (Gibson, Walton & Hagadorn, Edison Hotel Building ) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD u HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street BICYCLES! BICYCLES! Get one of our Wheels with a Coaster and take it home with you on your SUMMER VACATION. Alling Rubber Company SPORTING GOODS 229 State street. The only rubber store.

'fHE ·OONCORDIENSlS 19 ·' We Want Your Banking Business The S·chenectady Trust ·Com.pany 318-320 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones (}()0DlV1AN <Staterer and Delicat<lssen t.3erves and fAells @ver lttifty Varieties of ~andwich\s 1.0 7 ~ay ~treet JBoth Ji.>hones ~'Stearns-Foster'' $10_ Colton Felt Mattress They measure almost up to tbe $/.'i Standard.' If you \\\'i:-.h something that is sanitary, comfor1able, altngether gt>od and quite unusual in its quality and make up, you \viii not he d isappomted in these mattres~es. A. BROWN & SON CO. 302-304 State Street E •· · ye Glasses· \ FirrJ.PoE - -{ REP AI RED Goggles, Opera Glassts, Field Glasses Bino.:ulars and Reading Glasses Amber, Smoked, Blue and White Glasses of all kinds BEN V. SMITH, Optometrist 50 North Pearl Street ALBANY, N. Y. L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Hal'f Sizes A.Jwa)S Something New in Neckwear \VHoLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 2+2 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES . Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N. Y. Sorne students work because they have to ; some because they think they ought to; some because they like to. In any case it is easier if they lead the ,.ELECTRIC LIFE\ S·CHENECT ADY ILLUMINATING ·COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIE~ry PRINTING The Evening Star Job Department \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206

Copyrt~r..~ HJ09 by Hart Schaffner & Mal' Hill Hart, Schaffn.er & Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them. • In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they .are still not \freaks\ and they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don't all say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-242 STATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLO·THIER . ·)· .. •:•

' ; ,, ,' l' ' I, : ~· . ; ' ;. I 1: he Hill Copyn~ut t909 by Hart Schaffner & Mar- Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them . .. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that if s possible to put into clothes, they .are still not \freaks\ and they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don't all say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-24:2 STATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLO·THIER

..,..., P' D . I 'fP'f\lt I 11 lA~ t ~he Hill Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits are deservedly popularc We sell them® ~ In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hilt we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that if s possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaksu and they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don·t all say so. and He S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-2'12 STATE ST .. THE COLLEGE CLOTJ-1/ER

