' 1.· . .I I ! ! :\; I I ~ ' Q • I ' ' I ; . I ~I . I ~I I I· r· .... ,_ ~ il ~:f -· *A!WWII'ff#!iS•* _M- ... - 4\ •+•+ VMA . + ~ THE 1:· ' CONCORDIENSIS . VOLUME XXXIII NUMBER 13 JANU;-\RY 12, 1910 I I PU:BLISHED WEEK~L Y BY THE STU DENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

2 THE OONOORDIEN,SIS • • • UNION UNIVERSITY • • • CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHlVlOND, D. D., ChanceHor UNION COLLEGE, SCHE.NECTADY, N.Y. The College offers undergraduate courses as follows: 1.-----.CLASSICAL COURSES-Leading to the De- gree of A. B. A. Greek ls required for admission to this Course. B. Greek is ·begun at entrance and is required for four years. 2.-LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE--Leading to the Degree of Ph. 13. This Course offers Latin without Greek. 3.-SCIENTIFIC COURSE-Leading to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, .2 and 3 the greater part of the work of tne last two yeacrs fs elective. 4.-GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. During the third and fourth years two alterna_ tive options are offered in this Course. Option A-In which the fundamental princi- ples of advanced technical subjects receive emphasis. Option B-.Jn which studies are offered which give a preparation for engineering positions of an executive- or administrative nature. 5.~GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE, of six years, leading to the degrees of B. E. and Ph. B. This Course provides college and technical training by combining Courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANTTARY ENGINEERING COURSE-Li€ad:. ing to tbe Degr€e of B. E. 7.-ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING COURSE- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers also graduate courses in Engineering of one year's resident study, as follows: 8.-Graduate Course in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree of l\L C. E. 9.--0raduate Course in Electrical Engineering, leading to the Tiegree of M. E. E. For catalog·ue,· address FRANK COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF .MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-InstrRction by Lectures, R.ecitations, ClinicEr, Laboratory Work, Practical Den1onstrations and Operations. Hospital ani~ Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues a:rfd circulars containing full informa- tion, sent on application to WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the University is located at Albany, near the State Ca:pitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. EXPENSES-Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, ad- dress ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARM!'ACY-Exer. cises held in Albany Medical College building. Graded course of instruction 'conrprising two terms of six and one-half months each. Fees, eighty dollars p·er term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, address THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., Albany, N. Y. Secretary. ---------------·----·--- ~--------------------------------------· I There Must Be a Beginning I 1 Why not make it now ? i'r .oovvill open the account Interest begins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton C~ A. Whelan & Coe C f) c - 1gar ~to res. 301 and 443 State Street )l'ATES' BOA·1~ f~IOUSE The L~rgest and Best Equipped in the St.ate Clf Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private Parties Only, in ·connec- tion with house : : : : : : :.,. 29 FRONT S'\fREET SCHENECTADY

'fHE CONC0l{D\.&N·818 3 : THE TENEYCK ALBANY,N. Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FRED'K W. ROCKWELL fiunday 18\Vening \Ji?inn~r · Spenal Orchestral Programme fiupp~r after the iPlay ' Music in Gdll begins at 10.30 jj)inn~r Music in CEI rill Friday and Saturday Evenings IDinn~r Music Daily 6.30 to 8.30 o'dock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S EUROUEAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broa·dway and Maiden Lane GENTLEMEN ONLY ALBANY, N.Y. 250 Rooms LADIES RE.STAURAIN1T ATTACHEO SPE:CIAI... NE-W RATHSKELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Room Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms WM. H. KEELER, Pr·op., A.nnex, 501 andn:l\l Broadway COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of Caps. Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities frotn the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in P·URE DRUGS GOO·D CIGARS K 0 D A K S P·HOTO SUPPLIES HUYLER'S B.ON BONS and CHOCOLA.'TES Lyon Drug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 714Harnillon Street 13 McClellan Street A.C.SPALDING & BROS. Tbe Spalding Trade-Mark is known t:hroutthout the w,orld as a Guarantee of Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAl EQUIPMENT FO,R ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES . estedin IF ~ Ou are inter- · AthletiJ sport you shoula have a copy of the Spalding Catalogua. It's a cvmplete encyclopedza of Wh.at's New in Sport and is sentfree on request. A. G. Spalding & Bros. SYRACUSE NEW \YORK BUFFALO

I ' l 4 l'HE CONOOl{DlENSlS Student STU?EN!S furnish.ing thei_r own roo~s will be Interested 1n our dtsplay for thetr especial ben,efit, from which we quote: Strong Iron Couches,. s·2. 75 Reading Tables, $3.50 to $10 Furniture Com~ late wlth· Mattress, 4. 7 5 Writing Desks, 3.50 to 24 The Wallace Co. SPECIAL ~· From now until Christmas '' U · '' p I will sell all - - - - . lllOll ennants with Idol Emblem for 69c regular price $1.00 ''Union'' Pillow Tops, Idol Em.blem for $1.48, regular pnce $2 .00. These will make an Ideal Christmas Present to your friends and at very low prices. -· - 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse Bowling Alley FRED THALMAN Caterer for lVeddings, Receptions, Etc. Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. GATES, Proprietor Cigars • Cigarettes • • Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand RES1AURANT' 238 State Street .. . . W. J. FRIDAY Both PhoneJ Van Curler Opera House First ClassDrugs

THE CoNcORDIENSIS No. 13 VOL,. XXXIII UNION ~cOLLEGE, JANUARY 12, 1910 BASK,ETBALL. -- Union EasHy Defeats Hobart, 25 to 16. In thoir first basket-ball game of ,..vt'he season, Union won an easy victory over Hobart, on Sat- ur\lay, January the eighth, at the local Armory. good, and. these points, together with three fouls, constituted Union's scoring for that half. Hobart obtained one more basket on Wood's ·easy shot. In the last minute of play Hequembourg, '12, was substituted for S.hutler. The attendance -was very good. The bleachers . While the score may read and sound nicely, nevertheless the Garnet team ·deserved a muc1\.. higher score. In the first half they put up a fine game, scoring eig'hteen points to Hobart's nine. But the second half brought only seven points to each team, Union losing many chanc(~s through poor pass-work, while Hobart's shootin6 were crowded with students, while the reserved seats in the balcony were comfortably filled. It is to be hoped that the attendance will continue to be large; and that it will justify the merits of the team, in which. case it will be very goo1i indeed. was very inaccurate. The team \ran up against if' ,...-hen Anderson was obliged to leave the game, as there was no substitute center. Westcott was sent in to play the position, and did very well, consid~ering that - l1 e played against Wood, who was the mainstay· of the Hobart five. The game haj hardly started when a foul wa3 ca1led on Hobart, and Shutler got the first score by shooting the foul. Anderson invariably got the ball on V1e toss-up, giving Union two more baskets almost immediately. Hobart, however, on two successful shots and on Ande~·son's foul, tied the score. Thereon the half was elear1Y Union's; on gcod pass-work and effective shoot- ing, eight throws were tried successfully, thre~ lJY Coward, three bY Anderson~ and two bY Shutler. The half ended as .fast as it had begun, with the score eighteen to nine in Union's favor. In the second 'half, Hobart presente-d the sarne line-up; the only change in Union's line being tllP- substitution of Westcott for Anderson. Hobart played about the same ~ame as before, but th~ G'\~rne-t players weakened perceptibly, both in pass-work and guarding, allowing H·obart to get five points, before Union scored at 311. In tlV\ latter part of the half, however, Shutler and Charest eac!l succeeded in n1aking their throws The line-up was as follows: Hobart l:J nion McCarthy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Shutler, Hequembourg L.eft forward. Hancock t t t t t t I • I e t e I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I • I Coward Right forward. Wood t t I 1 I I I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I I Anderson, Westco'.t · ·Center. Paln~ er (Capt.) .. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I t Charest ( Cap1.) Right guard. Fairbairn Barker t t • t t • • • • t • • • • t • • t • t • t t t • t • • • e Left Guard. Baskets-From court, Anderson 3, Coward ·~. Shutler 3, Charest 1, Hancock 2, MeCarthy 2, Baker, 2, Wood 1; on fouls, S'i.1ut1er 3, Coward 2, Wood 2. Referee-Knolt, Hamilton; scorer, Hill, Union; tin1e-lzeeper, Clark, Union. Time of halves, 2f) minutes. .----- TRA.1CK NEWS. Captain Dennis has issued a .call for every man \VhO has any track ability to be present at thn daily practice held in the gymnasium, prepara- tory to the indoor track meets, in whic'h Union is to participate this winter. Several meets have been arrang-eJ and every fellow wl.1o has his college work in shape and is not out for basket- balL should turn out for the preliminary training and try for the team.

' ) \ '' ' ' ! I > ,l THE CONOORDIENS18 The first of the indoor meets is to be held in Troy at the State Armory on January 2'0. T'he Union track team is to have her men entered at this meet, as well as the ones at Albany and Saratoga, which are to be field in February. It a suitable tean1 can be developed, Union is to run a relay race with Holy Cross in the Albany n1eet. Ea;rly in March will be held the principal track event of the winter, when a dual meet ig 'held with the Amherst \Aggies.\ This will un· doubtedly be a hard meet, and if the Garnet tean1 is to be successful they will need the backing of every one in college. FOOTBALL RULES DISCUS·SED. Meeting in New York, Dec. 28, 1909. Seventy-seven colleges and universities were represented at the fourt11 annual convention of the Intercolle~iate Athletic Association which met in New York De·cember 28. Th·e principal sub· ject of discussion was the revision of the foot- ball rules for the purpose of making the game less dangerous. rrhere was some ·diverstiy of OIJlTIIOn in regard to the question, but most of t'he representatives were agreed that the rules regulating mass play anJ the running tackle, otherwise known as the flying tackle, and playing through the line, would bave to be done away with. Only one institu- tion was of the opinion that the game s'hould be abolished. At the invitation of the convention Chancellor J~unes R. Day of Syracuse read a characterist1c paper on \The Functions of College Athletics.\ After a long discussion t11e question as to the revision of the rules to bring a bout the desired result was referred to the foot8all rules com· mittee by a practically unanimons vote on the following resolution: I-L~solved, That the footbali rules committee of this association be instructe-d to use every possi · ble endeavor to bring abo.ut such a modification of the rules as shall in their judgment tend to reduce to a minimum the dangers of physical injuries to the players and at the same time re- tain, so far as may be feasible, the most desir'3,- ble and w11olesome features of the game. The organization N!OW includes :fifteen of the t wenty-fnur largest instituUons of learning in the country and is so r.epreBentative of the trend of modern collegiate athletic ideas that its action is considered certah1 to shape decisively the footb-all rules comJ!lllittee's action in revision of the rules of the play. COLLEGE M'EETING JAN. tO, 1910. The college meeting of Monday, January 10th, was opened with the sing;ing of AlJna Mater. Tll1s was followed by \As They Bound the Laurel.\ Then Potter le,d a 1ong cheer for the basket-ball tea 1n an·d n lUll ber one for Charest. Charest made a few re1narks about the basket.· ball ga1r..e with Hobart. He said the scor2 looked good, bur. that he ·couldn't feel entirely satisfied with the team.. ·He mentioned the fact that there are not enough men prepared for the team, and so urgeJ the fellows to keep up their studies so that n1ore good material may be avail- able. He arrang0d for several days of practice an·d promised the .fellows a good stiff game at New York. Wlalser spoke about the first hockey game .,:. the seas on, which is for Wednesday evening with the Scoti:a Boat Club on t'heir rink. Dennis announced that the winter track team work is to be begun in earnest. He urged the fellows to try out in order to be well prepared for the track meets to be held at Troy, Albany, Saratoga and Am'h:erst. Charest informed the students that as yet all the winter caps had not been disposed of and so asked the students to see to it that all obtain their toques and thus help out the committee 1n charge of them. Faust announced the piano recital tc be given in the chapel nex t Tuesday evening by Miss Tina Lern·2r, reputed to ibe the best woman pianist in the world. He also announceJ that similar recitals win be given on F'ebruary 4tb and March 21st, and said that the students mr~y obtain ticl\ets for the three concerts at a reduced rate, the regular price being five dollars for the three, or two dollars for one.

rrtiE CONCORDIENSlS 7 STU:DENT VOLUINITEER CONVENTI;ON. U nio·n O·elegates Report Co·nvention in Chapel. At :the chapel exercises last TuesdaY, a report of the Student Volunteer Convention, whtch waR held in RocheBter during the Christmas vacation, was given by three of the Union delegates: Dean Ripton, S. :M. Cavert, :10, and Faust, '11. The other Union men who attended the convention were Dr. Hale, Potter, '12, and Mabie, '13. IR the report given at chapel the Jelegat~;;l desc:ribed the convention as one of the greatest gath.erings of Christian students that has ever been held. These conventions are held only once in every four years, the last one ~1aving been at Nm.·.hville in 1906. Since this opportunity come~ to a student only once during his college course, those w'h-o were able to attend considered thern- seives especially fortunate. There were over thirty-six hundred delegate~ at the convention, representing· over seven h11ndreJ and twenty-five educational institutions in the United States and Canada. Besides the delegates there were present at the meetings hundreds of other persons who are interested in the Stud·ent Volunteer movement; making the average attendance over five thousand people. Among the speakers there were missionaries ann Christian worl;:ers from twenty-nine different. countries. Among the speakers of world-wide reputation of India, SamHel M. Zwemer, tlie greatest au- thoritY on the Moslem world; Bishop Hartzell of Africa, and over two hundred returned mission- aries from all parts of the world. ---·------- DAY O.F PRAYER AT UNION1. On January 27 the annual Day of Prayer wiU be o-bserved at Union. On this day all recita- tions and other college work will be Sllspender, the only exercise of the day being an a.ddress by the Rev. Dr. Charles E. Erbman of the Princeton Theological Seminary. Dr. E:rbman stands high in 'his profession and his talk will be well worth hearing. Re was present at the Student Volunteer Convention at Rochester, where he was considered one of the most effective speakers present. ''Prexy\ Ric'b- mond considers himself especially fortunate in persuading Dr. Erbman to come, and all the fellows should be out to give him a good impres- sion at his first visit on the \hill.\ A1NINUA-L A.LLIS;ON-FOOTE DEBATE. The Allison-Foote prize debate will occnr Friday evening, January 14,\' in the chapel. ThJ Philuma l he on and Adelphic societies are both working hard, and both are confident. The Adelphics uphold the affirmative side and the Philomatneons the ne-gative. The subject and the debaters:- Resolve·d: That a graduated income• tax should be a part of our federal system ·lt taxation: Affirmative, Carmichael, '10; Rogers, '13: Coplen, '10; alternate, Dunn, '12. Negative, Potter, '12; Bartlett, '10; S. Cavert, '1 o-; alternate, Hanigan, '13. ------- MUSICAL CLUBS. were: John R. Mott, president of the World Christian Students' Federation, who presided at all the rneetings; Dr. J. Ross Stevenson, pastor of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Ne-w York City; James Bryce, the English ambas- sador to the United States; Robert E. Speer, who has recently returned from a study of conditions in South America; Dr. Julius Richter of Berlin. one of the leading German students of the day; Bishop Hendrix of Kansas City, president of the American Federation of Churches; William J. Schieffelin, head of the largest wholesale druggist firm in New York City, who presented the rela- tion of the business man to missions; Dean Bosworth of Oberlin University, Sherwood Ed<lY T'he Glee Club has begun holding short rlailY rehearsals after chapel in preparation for tht~ winter tern1 concerts. The club will be cut .thi~ week from 36 men down to about 25. The re?;i.l· lar Monday ni~ht rehearsals are still being heli. The M.andolin Club will also reduce its num be~· of men in preparation for hard consistent worlL

8 Til I~ U(lNU01{l)ll~NS18 The Concordiensis A Litet·at·y aiHl News \Yeekly Published by TIIF~ STUDENTS OF' UNION UNIVERSITY. EntPI'e<l at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. l~D ITOR-I:N-CHIEJH', II. <;, Ynn l>PuseH, '10, Phi Delta 'Theta House. A~~ISTA~T I<JJ)J'rOR-IN-Ci-IIEF, '1'. n. \Valser, '10. BUSI~ESS :MANAGER, A. R. Chnf'fee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIA'l'E EDITORS, J. Henkle~·; '11. W. D. Cavert, '11. REPORTOHJAL STAFF, H. '1'. Case, '13. J. H. Potter, '12. R. P. Patterson, '1;~ I I. A. Schermerhorn, '12. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. Foothnll ..... j L. A. IIeqnemiJOurg, '10 ........ Captain ( II. K. IIntC'hPn:4, '10 ........... :\Ianager ~ •• JJ.· BaskPtl>nll... ( ( L ClwrPst, 'lO .............. Captain Zi llliHPI', '10 ................ :\Ianager ( A. It. I>Pnllis, '10 ............... Captain TI'HC'k .••..•• ·1 II. II. { <ii':>\'<'I', '10 .............. :\Ianager \ II. P. ~tPwart, '10 .............. Captain Hn~PlJUll ..•.• ) { :--;, K. I I yd t', '10 ................ :\Ianager Y. }f. C'. A .... II ouor Court Ten·a<·<> < 'ouncil 1 :-:. :\I. <'m·t'I't. '10 ............. President .r. II. P()ttPr. ·1~ .............. SPcretar;r j T. I>. \YnlsPI', '10 .............. Presideut ( W. I>. Cn \'PI't, '11 .............. SPcretary 1 ~. ~I. < 'n n'I't. '10 .............. PreHident II. II. <;l'nYPI', '10 ............. Secretary ::\Insieal Clubs Glee. 0. A. Faust, '11 ............. Leader 1 ( •. E~. Rmith, '10 ............... :\fanag-et· f'oncordiensis 1011 Garnet .• :\Inncloiin, X. \Y. ~lntteJ', '10 .... LeadN· 1 II. <i. \\nn l>PnsPn, '10 .......... Editot· A. IL Cllnffp(-', '10 .............. :\fanagel\ 5 .1. ( T. lh,nk!Py. '11 .......... IDditor-in-Chief :\J. TnWIIHl'IHl. '11 ......... Bn~. l\fgr. 1 -\ 1·~- J(I'i<>g:4lll:tll. 'lO .......... President Pt·es•s Club... · · II. X. TI'lnnlmll, '1:2 ........... SPcretary . TEIL\IS: One snh~rription .................................. $2.00 Single CopieR ................................. 10 Cents. Puhliration Offke, ScheneC'tnfly EvPning Star. 'The badketball season started with a rather easy victory for BASKETBA.LL the Varsity and now the pros- pects look good for a successful season thro·ughout. In the game of Saturday ·evening, the team was given a chance to find its w•eak points and will know ·where to put the greatest stress in its practice. At pres- ent there are :not enough men out trying for the tealll and u-.l.ere are several more in college who should be out. In that way only wiU the team be the best developed, for a strong seru.b is needed to practice ag·ainst daily. At t'be game Saturday the attendan-ce was very gnod and every one should -endeavor to attend aJI the home games of the season i~ pos.sible. Not as much opportunity for c:heering is given as in BOm·a other sports but there should lbe some. A cheer for some very good .play comes in very \Vell and a song once in a while aids a great deal by thus showing the team that the atudents are all behind them. The cheering and singing of Saturday evening was very good and should be continued. Elsewhere in this issue will be found the tWords of the third FRANKLIN'S stanza of \Old Union Beside the SONG Mohawk Vale.\ This song was written by C. E. Franklin of the clasi3 of 1883. It is one· of the songs that are n1ost often used but as we sing it now only the first two st:lnzas are used. As Mr. li'ranklin said, the song loses much {)f it.-3 strensth by t'he omission of the th~rd stanza. This third stanza is heardly ever ·IJrinted and so we have very little chance to learn the words. It is printed h€re so that we may all learn it. We think it a good idea to learn the wprds and alwa~rs sing the third stanza with the other two. RESULTS OF WINTER Every winter brings its share of ice and distri,butes it in places that are in constant use. E-very winter the steps leading into bot'b North and South Colleges as well as t:1ose into the chapel are covered with ice from the ·beg1n- ging of colt weather. Sometimes they are so slip- pery that they become dangerous to those going .,· .. ,

'fHE CONCOI{DIENSlS in and out of the building, especially in the even- ing. We think it is the duty of the college autt.~.ori­ ties to see to it that the ice is removed and kept from the ateps and we :hope that will be done this winter. ALLISON- 'FOOTE DEBATE -------- !Friday evening occura the annual prize debate ,between the two literary societies. It will be h.eld in the col- lege chapel at eight o'clqck and will be a delbate well worth 'hearing. :5ev- eral old li!en are on the two teams as well as some new ones. Th~ s debate will give the several ll18ll some good preparation for we debates which are to com.e later in the year. Union haR won for herself an excellent record in debating and every effort is being 1nadr:~ to keep up the example ;:;et by JOHN BIGELOW'S LETTER TO THE FORUM. CrlHciz:-s Taft's La.ck of Knowledge of Political Economy .. John Bigelow, who is still bearty at ninety-two, was asked to apeak at the municipal dinner of the Civic Forum : n the Hotel Astor Friday even- ing;, Deceinber 17, 190'9. .As he found ae could not attend, he wrote a lett€:r as full of trenchan[ cornn1ents upon pubUc matters as his recent re- ply to the Hudson-iEi.,ulton Celebration Com.n1ission concerning the pollution of the Hudson and t:he waste of money in the Asbokan Dam project. He attacked the high ,protective tariff as the princi- pal cau.s·e of evils in Ameriean life. The Civic Forum, whiclt counts President Taft, teams of past years. \V. J. Bryan, Bishop David H. Greer, JGstice Brewer, Archbishop Ireland, Willi1m Dean How- Ells, and other distinguished men among its offi- ------- cers, encourages t'be frees:'c utterance of opin~on On Friday, Dece1nber 17, che frorn its platform, altho·ugll it does not 1nake it- self r·8S'pon;:;i'ble for the views thus ex·pressed. So, in making public Mr. Big;elow's letter, certain n::;presentatives of the Forum, while expressing themselves as })leased with it, expl:1in fhat ~t must be regarded as corning from Mr. Bigelow MR. BIGELOW'E• LETTER Civic Forum gave its muni- cipal banquet at the Hotel As- tor in Ne,w York. Mr. John Bigelow was asked to •be pres- only. The letter follows: \I am verv sei1sible of tlle honor which the offi- cer;:; of tLe ·Civic Forun1 bave conten1plated in in- viting me to be a guest ·at their municipal ban- quet to be t1eld at the Hotel Astor on Fr:day next. It would •be sufficiellt to say in response to your invitation that n1y age has for son1e years .. dents and alumn' will be interested in reading tions oc.curring after sundown. But in case of the letter whie'h we ·print here in full. my declining to be present you are kind enough to ask n1e to write you a letter with penn~s;:;ion to l)Ublish it. I have no a.bsolute excuse for not ent but as he was not able to be there he wrote the Forum a letter wi:lich was read at that time. Mr. Bigelow is a graduate of lTnion College and although in his ninety-second y(lar he is still hearty and energetic. He 'has filled many diplomatic po.sitions during h:s life and his care·sr ·has given him a training that en- ables hin1 to s·pe'ak aufnoritatively upon tbe mat- ters which he treats in his letter. All Union stu- compelled :ne to decline all -public festive func- ----- \OLD UNION BESIDE THE MOHAWK VALE/' availing myself of that privilege, thou~h I am ai1- T'h·e \uords of t11e thi'r·d stanz.a of th1\s so·nl!, IV '\\' prehensive that what I would say you may 'hardly be inclined to publish. which was written by ·C. E. F'ranldin, '83, follow: 'Tis there that are nurtur'd both l\:nowledge and honor To strengthen yuuth for life's uncertain way~-::.; And there oft in mem'ry, thosQ glad days recalling, We'll turn onr thoughts to sing old Union's praise. Chorus: Then come, etc. \I know that the purposes of the Civic Fornm are good; that all its officers with whom I i:la ve any personal acqua~ntauce are animated by a sin- cere desire to promote onr city's welfare, aa they understand it. Unhappily, 1 cannot conceive of any substantial reform or improvement in onr city, State, or national govern1nent that can be accon1plished while our Federal government is un- der the dominion of a national policy that con-

. ! 10 ~'HE U<JN{JOl{DlEN~l~ ================================== .fi.scates the property of the mult:tude for tlie pro- tection and ·enrichment of a class. No system of government that is founded upon a !hostility of interests rather than the brotherhood of n1an can !be reformed. It infects, circumscribes, and poh5ons the relations of every class, and its progress, Hke the moon's ascension, is but its progress to decay; or the palliation of a disease the progress of whic'h only results more rap:dly in death. Our tariff com·pels an ineq ui table didtri- bution of tke wealth of the country, thereby cre- ating a class a~·ways increasing in number whose interests are hostile not only to the rig:hts but to the best interests of all. It creates an aristoc· racy of wealth wh:ch, like all aristocracie.:l, must end sooner or later in flagrant war. \'T!he three great wars of national interest in which we have been engaged were all waged to resist or secure inequitable privileges. We sep- arated from England in '76 because, while heavily taxed as colonists, we were denied representation in the government. We were forced into a civil war in 1860 because two-fifths of the labor claas in the South were counted as voters for members of Con·gross, by which privilege the slave-owners of the Southern :States got t'heir labor at a com· parativdy nominal price, while no such privilege was enjoyed by the North. Our third war, with ·:.vrexico, ilad practi-cally the same origin, for it was waged in the interest of the slave 'Stated to secure to the South the additional voting strengt'h of fi. ve States in 'Texas, there,by to maintain and perpetuate the control of Congress by the slave- holding States. \It is impossible to make any substantial re· form in our city government do long as the Fed· eral government is controlled by such a selfish, f:uch an unrighteous, sucil an un·christian, and such a war-provoking policy. T'he root of our n1unicipal trouble is in Washin~ton. To reform any municipal grievance which does not begin at the root is like cutt'.ng for the cancer, only tem- porarily perhaps diminishing pain, but practic::tlly rendering the disease more active. It is the tar- iff upon imports by wrdch we are warring upon all fore:gn nations at even greater expense t:1an if we were using against them our fleet and armies. But injustice has inflamed t'he wage- earning portion of our population to such a de· gree that at this present moment we are actual- ly enduring quite the expense and already not a little of the bloodshed of a civil war between the representatives of cap:tal and of labor, a hod- tility Which is becoming every <ilay more bitter and more menacing. \Among the officers of the Civic Forum, em- bracing a num'ber of excellent men, I see t:hat the larger majority are identified with the dom- inant political party, if not with its protective policy; and your first vice-·president is the Presi- dent of the United States, who signalized his ac- cession to that office by signing a new revenue bill, still further increas~B..g our tariff upon iln- ports, which was already the most oppressive tar- iff not only in lbe world at pTesent but in all his- tori-c tin1es. Of course, under t'hese auspices r see more pros.vect of a revolution than of any re· form in our governm.ent. In fact, what is our present condition but a revoluVon, when every railroad and every industrial corporation in the country is conlending for its life with laborers, vvhose wages can never keep pace with the tar- iffied increase of the cost of living. \What is our condition ROW but civil war? For the last two years there has be-::m a larger anny of wage-earners on strike, that is, in revolt against their employers, than was at any time eng::tged. in our Civ:l War by the Confederate 'States, thus far less bloody only because of enforced concessions to the demands of the wage-earners. The period of these struggles has been stigmaUzed as 'the rich man's panic.' It could more propArly he called the natural and rig·hteous 11enalty of o-:1r confiscating tariffs; so true is the proverb tbat what is won over the devil's back is lost under tis liE'JlV. 'President 'Taft in his recent messa2:e to Con· gTess denies that the recent and constantly in- CI easing cost of living is due to a protective tar- p·f, a staten1ent which })roves nothing ~o clearly Hs that his train;_ng as a lawyer has not made him a statesman, still less a .Political economist. \How will he explain the recent extraordinary impulse given to the White 1Slave traffic, except by n~e tariff, whic'h compels women to a.bandon their proper ilome life and take refuge in fac'tor- ies of protected industries for their daily bread, or else if not in consequence, abandon themselves to a life of shame? What but the tariff can ex- plain the revolt of a corps cl.'armee of shirtwaist

makers of the gentler sex whose wages and treat· n.1ent are incompatible with the:r lea.ding decent lives? \I observe that many of yollr officers are j_nem· lOA sail under a foreign. :flag to this day, while other nations· are encouraged to profit by the stupidity of our legislation. ~~Instead of repealing our suic~dal navigation laws our Chamlber of Commerce is still seriously consideri:ng the policy of su 1 bsidizing the ship- .building btti3in.ess. And if they were to succeea in gett:ng a subsidy from Congress, where would they get the seamen competent to run a trans- atJantic liner of the present day? We have no sailors fit for -such service unless there may be a fe 'N on t'he Great Lakes, but certainly there are none there to s.pare. With our subi3idized steam· ers we would be obliged to import foreign sailors. Ut.it our la.bor is :protected fron1 anY such inva- sion. bers of the New York Chamber of Commerce, which is presumed to represent very fairly the best intelligence and wisdom of thi;; commercia1 1netropolis. 'That Chamb~r is s·eriously deliberat- ~ng at the present :;noment over the propriety of subsidizing the commercial ma:dnB. which the tar- iff has driven from the ocean. Be,fore the Civil vVar, and when we endured a revenue tariff with only incidental protection, we had a iarger amount of marit:me tonnage on the oceans than Great Br:tain, and of course a larger than any other nation. The Civil war gave th·3 protectionists a pretext, of which they were prompt to avail Lheln· selves, of ;3upplying its 'sinews' by increasing the tariff.. The party then and still in .power has been increasing the tar:ff ever since. One of the con· sequencr~s has been that our flag has not been seen on the ocean for the last forty years ex2evt at the fore of our vessels of war. On the other hand, Lloyd~ d Report shows that there were built in British water this last year 1,221 sailing vessels an.d 8.994 steamships having the aggregate gross register of 20,544,584 tons. Of these, 511 sailing v ~~sels and 6,095 steam.$hips fly the British flag. ''Her rnanufacture of sh=ps and ste1mers for foreign nations is one of En~lands n1ost lucrative industries. The Unit.Gd States 'bas more of every- thing r2quire<l for shi-p or steamer building than ·'Dalmatia produces probably the most robust and expert ocean sa!lors in the world. Very re- cei.ltly between forty and fifty of these :men were 11ersuaded to con1e to :N\ew York with the as.:mr- ance of abundant work. They were sent back by the authorities at Ellis Island because they had not $'25 apiece, or some such su.:n, although their friends offered to guaranty the government against t'beir becoming a public· charge, and immediate ren1unerative employment. 'They were sent back ruined, for they had sold all they had in the world to pay their pas;:;age .aut, rely;ng, as they had the best of rights to, upon an immedi3te supply of work on arrival. The only reason they vvc-re sent back ·was to vrotect domestic 1a.bor is at present available in any other part of thG world-iron, coal, .steel, copper, lead, cord·-ige, paint, o!l, and ·3lectrical power, unsurp'-:t.ssed either iii quality or in quantity. Why are we not wl1at ·England fairly b·oasts of being, the Mistress of the Seas? Why but because, for the l?rotection of our labor, we have for nearly a century :pro- ~nibited the flying of the An1erican flag over any vessel not manufactured by American ship- wrig'hts. \7\le more than held our own with Eng- land on the oce:an when it was vexed only bv wooden ships propelled by the wind. \\iVhen Eng- lalld introduced the iron ship, we had as yet no suspicion that we had many ti;nes more than st1e, buried in our soil and forests, the material for 1naking and equipping a commercial navy. TD.e ronsequence is t'hat if we wish to cross the At- lantic or the Paeific or any other ocean, we mu:3t ~hat did not exist. \;..Jow my friends, am I not right in sayrng that a government the head of w'hicll says t1\tat our confiscating tariff does not increase the cost of the·· necessar:es of life; with a Congress that knows no better way of developin<J; a commercial navy than ·bY forbidding the purchase of ships where they can be procured vastly cheaper than we can produce them, and by puttin_g an almost prohibitive duty upon every comn1odity landed by a foreign nation upon its wharveo. when t'hey could better afford to pay to those vessels t.he subcidy they propose to ask for the purpose of kee11ing such vessels away, and this in the face of the uprising of pretty nearly the entire wap;e- earning class against the employers of 11\bor ~nd which cannot be controlled or subjected but 1)y concessions practically t:he frnit of war-under sncl1 conditions, 1 ~say, will it not be tr1e v0ry

; ! I i I '· 10B clhnax of futility to attempt to reform the gov- ernment of a city like ~ew York, where is ·in- vested or handled, I am told, nearly or quite one-tenth of the funded wealth of the nation, without beginning that reform at the seat of the Federal government, by aiming our bl,ows at the tariff, by seeing its venon1ous weapons n1irrored in the conditions of human life throughout our country to-day, as Minerva su:bdue.d t'he r.Lydra which it was fatal to look at? 'Has the tariff l'rove·d as fatal an opiate to the conscience a.s to political and to every other kind of eeonomy? \Excuse the length if you cannot excuse the lr ·eadth of this letter, and believe me all the ~~a me, yours very res,pe·ctfully, \.JOH::\T BH1FJT.tO\iV.\ Fl RE IN DR. HALE'S APARTMENTS. Many Valuable Books Lost. One of the most disastrous fires in the history- of Union College occurred early New Year's morning w:hen the apartments of Dr. Hale, at the west end of the south colonade, wer~.• destroyed and Dr. Barnes' classroom was badly damaged. The blaze was discovered by \Doc\ Moon, an alumnus of Union College, who occupi0::.:; a room in South College. Moon was returning from New Year's festivities when he became a ware of the fire. After telephoning t'he central fire station, 'he sprinted to the fire box at the Blue Gate and turned in a general alarm. Owing to the fact that the hydrants on the college grounds were frozen, the fire department was greatly hindered in the ·work of getting the blaze under control. In the building at the time of the fire were Mrs. Perldns, Mrs. Hale, tne three Hale children and two mai-ds. With the exception of one of the maids. who vvas ta1u;n from the second story window by a fireman, all escaped with little trouble. Dr. Hale was attending the ·conference of the Student Volunteer Movement in~ Rochester at the time and received 'his first knowledge of the fire by reading an account of H in th0 Rochester morning paper. The l.oss sustained by tl1e college is estimate l to be $3,0:00, whtcll i:s partly cov·ered by insurance. Dr. Hale's loss can scarcely be reckoned in dol- lars, as n1any of his books etcetera were valuable merely for their associations. Between. thr'je and four hundred books from the library of th2 late Dr. Edward Everett Hale of Boston, father of Dr. Hale, were destroy·ed, and hundreis of oth~ 1 books are badly damaged hy smoke and watBr. But very little furniture and ]nst the cloth·in3 that could be snatched up in a hasty exit were saved. Three out of ten rooms were not reache1i by the flames, .but ·water and srnoke have made the contents of the ro-onLs almost valueless. Dr. Hale carried no insurance. At the present time Mrs. Hale, with her thre,~ children, are living at Silliman Hall. Mrs. Perkins is the g·uest of IVfrs. Stevenson on lower Union Street and Dr. Hale is with Prof. Bennett. .Although nothing will be known definitely of the plans for rebuilding until the college Board of Trustees meets, it is understood that as much of the wall as IJOSsible will be retained in th ~ new structure so as to preserve th~ original style of architecture. This building is one of tl1·':! oldest structures on the campus. It was built ~n 1813. Many incorrect and exaggerated reports of tne fire reached the students, who were at home for the holidays. In one instance 'one of t.he fellows was told that the whole colle:se had been destroyed. Another story was that the first two hundred feet of South CoUege were burned. BRIEFS. Victor Young of China has been registered for the winter ternt at Union CollegE:. anv.. is now u student of the Fres'hman class in fuE standing. Young is the first Chinese student who has evP;.' studied at Union. Potter, '10, returned to college last Satnrda;·, af~er being ill with the measles for some time. Several applications have already been made for \stags\ at the Junior \Prom.\ Those who have not as yet pnrchased the toques w'hich they ordered should do so at once.

UNJDN COLtEGE.liBRAU. Till~ C<rNC()J{l)IEN~IS 10(; ·A,LUM\N.I NOTES. 1844-William Henry Helme Moore, lawyer and busineS's man, died January 4th at his 'home, No. 349 West Eighty-four·th Street, New York, from pneumonia. Mr. M~oore was bof'n in Greenport, Suffolk County, N. Y., ·on Februa,ry 13, 1824. He graduated fro1n Unio:n College in 1844 and in 1847 was admitted to the bar. He was third executive of the Atlantic Mutual. Insurance ·Conl- pany in 18·56, vice-president iri 1886 and later lv~­ came its president. Mr. Moore was one of the \war members\ of the Union League Club and was also a senior elder in the :Brick Presbyterian churc'h. For a number of years he was president Peekskill, N. Y. ; First Presbyterian, Syra·cuse; Broadway Congregational, Norwich, Conn., and . ' First Presbyterian, Rochester. After thirteen years of service in the Rochester church he re- . tired in 1900.. Since that time he has been ver:v -. active in different forms of philanthropy. Chart- of the Working W'on1en's Protective Union of New York, and presid•ent. of the Lifesaving Benev- olent Association of New York. He was presi- ~ dent of the Port 'so.ciety, and. a trustee and for nine years vice-president of th€ s·eamen's Bank for Sa vtngs. He· also served as vice-prEsident of the American Geographieal .S·ooiety. In 1882 he was elected a trustee of Union College and a few years later he received tl1e degree of LL.D. from his Alma :Mater. 1853-Rev. Nelson Millard D. D., died at hi.~ home, No. 20 Argyle ~stree-t, Rochester, on Wednes·day, January 5. Dr. Nillard was born October 2, 1834, in Delhi, Delaware County, anJ received his preparatory education in Delaware Academy, wher~ _at the age. of fifteen he was en- gaged as an instructor. He. was graduated fro1n Union in the class of 1853 with an A. B. degree, receiving the roaster's degree t;hree years later. He tau.gp.t one year in a priva, te s-chool for boys, and then returned to Union as a· member of the faculty, which place ~ne. beld for four years. He attended Princeton Theological Seminary for one year and then went to lJnicn Theological ~.·enlinary, where he was graduateu in 1860. He then went abroad for study and travel, r~- turning a.t the end of eighteni months. He was offered a professorship of L,ogic and- Rhetoric at Union, but he nad decided to .enter the ministrv. He became pastor of the f()llo~ring churches: First Presbyterian, Mont Ctair, N. J.;· ;;econrt. Presl)yterian, C'hica.go; Second Presbyterian table institutions aEd those for the . erring bad his attention. His death ha:s removed an impor- tant figure in clerical and civil life in Rochester. 1898-Mr. and iVIrs. James S. Stewart, at a / receptlO'n at their :home in Amsterdam last Fri- day evening, announced the engagement of t:1e daughter of Mrs. James V-oorhees, Miss Edith Voorhees, to :Harry Degraff, a member of the class o·f '98 and now Deputy State Engineer. 1899-Mr. and Mrs. George Foote, of Port Henry, will be the guests of the former's brother, Wfallace Foote, in New York for several weeks. They will later join a party that is cruising in the Atlantic and will remain with them unt:l April. Mrs. Foote -was formerly Miss Maud ander, of tfiis city. Mr. Foote is a Union grarl- uate of the class of 1899. 1g01-W. Earl Weller recently the College Library \ofl>P~'8@ of New York\- volumes which are now sought at a good prirc. :Mr. Weller was a member of the class of 1907 and is now Assistant City Engineer. ·------ ZETA BETA TAU ORGANIZED AT UNION. . At the annual convention of the Zeta Beta Tan fraternity held on December 27 in New York CitY, a charter was granted for the organizing of a chapter of that fraternity at Union. Since thai· time active steps· have been taken and a chapter is no·W fully organized. T'his fraternity has members from all depart- tnents of the University. There ::1.re seven charter members in the organization and several oth••r students who have been pledged. Among the many other institntions in which there are chapters of this fraternity an~: Columbia University, C. C. N. Y., N. Y. U., Cor- nell, Boston University, Long Island Mediclll Hospital and 'Tulane-- University of New Orlean-;

lOD rriiE CX)NC·<JltDIENSIS JUNIOR WEEK FEB. 3-5. The date for Junior Week has been fixed for February 3, 4 and 5. During this time Will be held the Junior \Prom the biggest social fHnc~ tion of the year; the first Sophomore Soiree, an:l other festivities, which will. for the time occupy the attention of every loyal student and cast all thought of other college work into the sea of oblivion. Coffh1, '11, the chairman of the \Prom\ Com.- mi ttee, has already co1npleted the arrangement~ for that event. It will be held on Friday evening, February 4, in the Ten E-yck; Zita's orchestra will furnish music and everything will be ·done to 1nake it one of the best attended and most successful college dances ever held. This year the members of the Albany depart- ments will be invited to attend the \Prom and it ts hoped that the invitation will be largely accepted by them. The members of the Fresh- lnan class at Union are allowed to attend the \Proro\ and take part in the fest~vities of Junior V\Teelc The Freshmen s'hould feel highly honored and do their best to attend the dance, as this privilege is allowed in but few othe~.' colleges. The first event of the week will be the Sophomore Soiree, wi1ich is to be held at the Mo'ha.wk Golf Club on Thursday evening. As at the ,. Prom,\ Zita's full orchestra will furnish the music. W.estcott, '12, c~airman of the soire~ cmnrnittee, has made elaborate preparations for the event and has gone to a larger expense than usual, and every student who possibly can should be there and help to make the. affair a success. -------- UNIQUE VESPER SERVICE. Talented College Woman to Speak. At the vespe r service next Sunday Mrs. Welton Stanford. Jr., will be present and SIJeal\: to the students on \The Things That Remain.'' At tbis meeting lVIrs. Stanford, who is a talentP1. singer, will also sing, accompanying herself on the zither. After graduating from Smith College about ten years ago, she went to th·e Columbia Law School / ' fron1 which she graduated and became a member of the New York b.ar. J\1rs. Stanford is well known in the social circles of Schenectady, being president of the college woman's club. It should, indee·d, be a pleasure for college men to tal{e this opportunity to hear her speal\. At the vesper service last Sunday, Rev. Orin G. Cocl<s of New York City, a member of the class of '98, and one of the 1nost loyal of Union's younger alumni, was present. He gave an inter- esting talk on character which was well worth the attention of every college fellow. He said that what a fellow does while in ,c:olle? e is deter- mining what his character will be in later life, and that every deed or thoug-ht is gradua11.V ,). moulding l1is mind, even though he does not realize it. ·The regular group Bible classes were started again on Tuesday evening, and will continue ~o be held on this night throughout the winter term These classes are bec01ning very popular an~! every student would do well to join one of then1 ---·--- DR. POTTER TO BE GUEST OF COLLEGE. Wi II Sr:eak on College Man's Problems. Dr. Rockwell Harmon Potter of Hartford, co11· necticut, one of the most prominent Congrega- tional ministers of New England, and probably tre test known *bf Union's younger alumni, :s · going to be back on the \hill\ during the first 11aH of the week, beginning January 23. He has been asked to speak to the fellows on vital problems of the college 1nan for three evenin~s in tbe college· chapel, January 24, 2G and 26. All the fellows at Union will be glad, indeed, to know this, and should see to it that no other engagen1ent prevents them from hearin-.:; Dr. Potter's message to college men. ----- Duplicates of the Fall Term n1ar1\f:: may ~w secured in the Registrar's office.

l'HE CONC·ORDIENSIS 11 CHEMICAL 'SOCIETY MEETS AT UNION. The January meeting of the Eastern New York Section ·of the American Chemical Society. of whiCh Dr. Ellery is president, was held in the chemical lecture room last Friday evPning. The· meeting. was well attended both by the students who are interested in chemistry, .and by the members of the society,. the seating capacity of the room being severely taxed. At this meeting an interesting lecture was given on the subject, \Recent Advances in the Liquefaction of Gases,\ by Dr. F. C. Hale of the research laboratory of the General Electric Works. The lecture was illustrated by the us~ of lantern slides, and at the close ·of the add~eR~, several interesting- experiments were performer:! wtth liquefied air and liquefied oxygen. Dr. W. R. Whitney, former president of tht:: national soci·ety, was pr0sent? and on the reque'3t of nr. .EUery, briefly addressed the meeting. After a short business 1neeting of thR members of the society, light refreshments were served. COLLEGE BRIEFS. ·Everyone should have one of the Col1(\ge pos- ters sold bY Miunse, '12. Dr. ·Mac has started classes in voluntary gym work. Tp.ey are held every day in t:he gyrn ~t 4 o'clock. There may come a time when holidays will n()t be reme:;:nbered, but the Union \Stude' will never recite on the first Saturday in December. Lavin, when asked bY Dr. Mac what Ineasure;:.i to take in the case of the partial drowning of one of his friends, suggested that he would make his friend regain \conscientiousness.\ I NT E R·CO LL E G I AT E. Michigan and Syracuse nave signed a two-year agreement in football. Harvard has just been the recipient of another English rigged eight-oared shell. The Popular Drug Store Fellows bring their friends to QUINN'S for refreshm·ents when down town. Our Soda Fountain presents a very attrac- tive menu novv-a-days. There's- Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea Sandwiches Salads lee Cream Coffee Soda All are extra good and are served in. the cnaracteristic Quinn manner WM. H. QUINN Drug~ist V c:ndome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre Sts. Columbia has arranged nine contests for the ~:ymnasium team exclusive of the intercollegiate exhibition, making one of the heaviest schedules ever arranged. The Delta Upsilon bouse a1 Cornell w2:s destroyed by fire on December 28 ThrEe students who were in the house saved a considerable quantity of the furnishings. The loss is esti- mated at :$.40.,000·, with insurance to the amm1nt of $17 ,0·0.0·. I JUSrr ACROSS FROM GREEN GATE FINK'S PHARMACY THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP The baseball sehectule for 1910 of SyracuRo University 'has been announced. It includes twenty-one games, with four open dates.

,;· I; i. . ' ~ 12 'l'HEJ CONOORDIENSIS IN T E'RC 0 L LEG I AT E. On December 31 Mrs. RlllsseU Sage gave to Yale Univer·sity. $6·50,0'0 0, whicih is to purchase a thirty-acre park to be used \as a new campus. The property was bought in 1905 by three N1ew Yo-rk graduates who undertook to carry it until fl. donor could be found who would transfer- it with- out debt to the uni-versity. Announcement is made of a gift of $50,00fl which a p'hilan thr·o:vist purposes to bestow on thP American University~ the educational seat of th8 ThLethodist Episco}Jal Church of the United. States in \tVashin~ to:n, D. C. The name of the benefactor has been withheld for the present. A prize of $100,0,00 has been deposited at Yal·~ to be given to anyone who disco·vers a cure fo1· tn berculosis. Lehigh University is considering the advisfl- bility of aliowing fraternity houses to be estab- lished on the campus. Two dormitories and a commons are to be erected at Colgate next summer. The total cost will be about $150,000. A biplane is being constructed by the Aero Club of Pennsylvania. Ottawa, Kansas, Freshmen 'have pledged ove1 $2,000 for a new gymnasium. A bequest of $1,500,000 bas been left to Columoia for special research work in cancer. A university orchestra is to be est~blished at Columbia University. Two hundred and thirteen colleges and univer- sities, twenty-five of w'hich are foreign, have students at Pennsylvania this year. Syracuse will meet Annapolis in an eight-oared race on the Severn River, M.ay 21, 1910. If a student at Darhnonth carries more t:1a\!1 15 hours work, he will receive credit for those 15 hours in which he has the 'highest standing. Wesleyan's hod-{ey schedule consists at present of seven games. Dartmout:1's new track coach, H. L. Hillman, of the N. Y. A. C.~ is one of the most brilliant amateurs in the world in dashes and 'hurdles. ''Brown of .Harvard'' was presented by a cast of twenty-three men of Alleghany CoUege recently. McGill University has just received a gift of $600,000, $100,00'0 of which is from Andrew Car- negie and the rest from Lord Strathcona. Seventy-fl. ve men are out for the Fr·eshman crew at Washington. One of the lead'ing sororities at Wellesley :1as been disb.anded by the vote of its m.en1bers. A Russian undergraduate at Mi-ssouri spea!zs six languages, one of which is English. No student at Stanford University is allowed to appear in more than one dramatic production in a semester. An inter-fraternity bowling contest is being held at Michigan. At the first trials for the Junior play at Wi3- consin, over on-3 hundred and :fifty Juniors r~­ sponded. A dormitory building in memory of Professo:· H. P. Wright as Dean of Yale CoUege is to ':'0 erected at Yale. A memorial gate will also t,e built. A two-year debating agree1nenr. be1ween Obin Wesleyan and Syracuse has been entere-d into. The student council of the University of Michi- p;an is offering $50 for a new field song. Tbe Harv:J.rd Dramatic Club 1J.as chosen \The Scarecrow,\ written by an old· graduate, 3-S the annual pla-y. The sophomore class at Barnard presented £'The Sword of the King\ recently. The freshmen defeated the sophomores in the annual field day gan1es at the Massachusetts In· stitnte of Technology by the score of six to three. One of the latest innovations at the Mass3.chu- setts Institute of Technology is a gold staniTl mill . .President King of Oberlin has gone for a year's tonr through India, Ghina and Japan. -Oxford University in England is to beco:ne a co-educational institution, after a thousand years of having men only.

'rHE CONCORDIENSIS 1.3 A prize of $75 will be awarded to the fourth year class in the Medical College at Pennsyl- vania for essays based on observations in the hospital clinics. All the expenses of the freshman athletic teams at Purdue are met by members of that class. The program for Junior week has been an- nounced at the Universit:y of Pennsylvania. President Schurman of Cornell gave the ope!l- ing address at the first 1neeting of the Society of Comparative Theology and Philosophy. 'The so- ciety was organized at that time. Daniel A. Coogan, coach of the baseball squa(l, has been selected to coach the basl..:et.baH team at Cornell this season. Columbia has the largest enrolltnent of all the colleges. Pennsylvania, Michigan, Harvard, Cor- nell and Yale follow in the order named. Michigan Univ<:rsity has adopted the system of faculty advisers, which is much the same as that in vogue a1nong the Freshn1en at Syracuse Nebraska students are making arrangemen-ts for the holding of a county fair which will jH- cl ude many novel and funny stunts. Owing to the pE-riodical congestion of the Jun ior promenade and Sophomore cotillion at Cor nell each year, it is planned to limit if not en. tirely exelude the number of Freshmen at the~H functions. University of w~isconsin students who ar·3 absent without excEse from the last recitation preceding the examination, or the first recitation following it, will not be adn1itted to examina· tions at the close of the semester in tlle studie-:; fron1 which they were absent. \.She Stoops to Conquer\ will be presented t'Y the Dramatic Club of Allegheny this year. After five successive defeats, California beat Stanford in the annual Rugby gan1e by the sco,.e of 19 to 13. Three hundred sailors from the U. S. Michigan were among the rooters for Michigan in her clash with Pennsylvania. Dr. C. W. Eliot, late President of Harvar·~t gave a lecture recently at the UniversHy of Vir· ginia. Michigan will .confer the degree of Juris Doc- tor on .some members of the grRduating class this year. Contributions of $600 by alumni students and business men of Ann Arbor were used. in sendi11g the Michigan 'Varsity Band to Minneapolis fol' the Minnesota game. The women of Minnesota have put the ban on cribbing by adopting resolutions to that eff.ert recently. 'fhe faculty of Georgetown has decided thai tll ere will be no more football there until more hn- mane rules are adopted. rehe Commencement committees of the Senior Class at Princeton have been selected. Thirty-two men 'have entered for the pool tour- nanlent and ten for the billiard tournament at Brown. The Cornell Christian Association had a bal· ance of over $150.00· on the 1st of September. While a crowd of sophomores was attempting to force an entrance into his room to shave side whiskers from a Missouri fresh;nan, the offender sa'red them the trouble by slipping into another r ul 1m and clipping the facial adoflnmen ts that were causing all the trouble. One of the lar:gest gifts ever .!.nade to the Col- uinbia Rowing Club has just been announced by the class of 1900, which has presented the crew authorities wii:!h a new eoacD.ing launch. The boat cost $2,500, ·tJhe expense being undergone by the class as a decennial annivers~ry gift in place of a grandstand which the ,class had already con- tracted to build on South Field, when the trustees \Vithdrew their permission. The English Club of the University of Califor- tJia plans to issue a \California Story Book,\ ·con- t~ ining stories of university life by grad nates who have attained success in literary lines. V lisconsin's representative in the Western Con- ferlnce council has placed himself on record as being in favor of the return of Michigan to the league, making the original \Big ~in e.'' So1ne bright statistician has figured that it would ta.ke 200 years to take all the courses of- fered at Harvard.

14 THE OON·CORDIENSTS Now \l{eadry ! Glee :Club and Football Pictures A !.so Artistic Frames WHITE, The Pho:tographer PHILIP T. HILL, College Reprensentative S:OM E NEW FOOTBALL RULES. (·Resw~otfully submitted to the ·Con1J.nittee on Revision.) Footha1ls must be resilent and collapsible at a pn~ssnre of seventy pounds to the square inch; this will break many a fall. Xo gtidiron shall be of metal. The college yell is hereby abolished as a relic of barbarism, inciting to brutality. Players must have their hair cut before each ga;_1lt.3; floating hair is inin1ical to the trachea or contestants. The higl1 ball, or anytl~i.ng approximating to ic, is barred as tending to bad feeling; players may be c·heered but not inebriated. \Vhen any player ·cri·2s \Down!\ two players must be d~ignated by the referee to jun1p on him; this will give paying patrons a b2tter view than hereto fore. Xo play<:r sD.all goug.e out but one eye of an opponent; if, through oversight he R;hon1d do or he n1nst push it back before the game can go on. Players :rnay still continue to kick a goal, if nndne force is not employed. A broken back ,counts two points for the op- 11osing eleven, a broken leg one; broken ribs and noses do ,not count. Any 11Iayer losing his head during a match game must be disqualified for carelessness, if still ali ve.-<Bos ton Traveler. INTERCOLLEGIATE. lVIinnesota condnctR a \model school\ at which cooking by men is a feature. Loyola University, a new institution, bas been establis·hed at Chicago. Tt is t'he principal edu- cation center of Illinois and was for,nerly called St. Ignatius College. Sports at George Washington University are to br:~ limited hereafter to football and tra1c.k. There will be no baseball or basketball tean1s. Plineeton started hockey praetice recentlv with twenty candidates reporting in the yard back of their g·ymnasium. Basket Ball at the Armory Saturday, January Twenty-two Rochester vs .. Union HAN A NS $6.0 0 To- Young Man of Taste Are you inter- ested in real fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better for WEAR See our THE ~'m~ 0tio6 $4.00 PATTON & HALL \Unions Headquarters for Styles\ ' .

', ~ '. ; ,, THE OONOORDIENSIS 15 Watch this space for tlte an nou nc ement of BABBITT & CO. AltA NY : : NEW YORK The \Ara-Notch\ makes the uBelmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perfectly f5c»2/ot25c. Cluett, Peabody & Co. '1\tlakert 1\.RROW CUFFS 25 cents a J. tir All College News Always in The Gazette Pass Word- Pschoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Sauer- 'kraut or Potato Salad NICHOLA US Picture Framing--- Did she give you her Photograph? Frame It! THE GLEASON BOOK CO. Catering to Ladies and Children \Veber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. Taylor, Resident Manager IDatin~~ Ev~ry Dav Cbangin\5 Pr~~ram m~nday and Thursday WITH Bi~ Extravaganza c~mpany PRICES-Matinee ro cents and 25 cents Night, r 5 cents to so cents Daily Matinee for Ladies and Children, ro cents, reserved any part of the house SEATS NOW ON SALE

1 ~. ·n T'HE CONCOl{DIENSIS WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration of Any Descrip- tions, Cheice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an order placed direct with will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled faci:lities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Speciahy Greenhouses and Nurseries: L. D. Pere 1413 N y c A 'd' St t s·t Town of Florida and Hoffman, N.Y. Horne 4~5 . • • • . rca e, ··.a e ·. · . You Can SEE 'The Real Oak Leather In REGAL SHOES -Through the \Window of the Sole'' There's a litde circular slip of paper pasted on the sole of every Regal Shoe. By lifting up this \ Window of the Sole \ you can see the white, Live-Oak-tannecl leather underneath-the finest sole leather in the world. The cheap, red, Hemlock- tanned leather in other shoes is blackened over to hide its tell-tale color. Hemlock leather is brittle and stiff, but Regal Live-Oak-tanned leather is flexible and wears like iron. If you want honest sole leather-if you want shoes that will last-get Regal Shoes at our exclusive Regal agency. $350 $400 and $500 S. lJ. N U~BA UM 271 State Street A Smart Regai JIJodel 'For the best things to eat we go to the Crown Hotel Opp. N. Y: C. Depot Wall and Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY G. A. CASSIDY CO. Pianos, Musical Merchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos ~~~t:~dstreets, SCHENECTADY The Mohawk Hotel and Baths Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOODS & MEEHAN Props. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Rooms: $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russian and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. First Class Restaurant in Connection. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes. The Right Place to get it is at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just opp. Jay St. Geo. B. Cavanagh 314 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

THE OONOORDIENSIS 17 Tbt Stt,rling Jlrt Shop •· Orpbtum Tbtatrt w, Wants every Union ·man to call and see their line of j. X. Brtvmaytr : :rnanagtr .. Pictures, Calendars, Cards and ~Christmas Novelties Nevel' mind whether you wish to buy or not, we~n be glad to see you. Schenectady's Refined Amusement Palace High Class V audeviUe and Moving Pictures • • Scbtn.t~lady. n. \'. Grtilltst Sbo w Evtr O.fftrtd at Popular Pri~ts One Block East of Central Sta.tion W. & L. E. GURLEY L. D. Tel. in Every Room. Lavge, Bright Sample Rooms TROY, N.Y. THE \NEW VENDOME\ Civil and Mining Engineers' and Land s,urveyors' Instruments Also Scientific Books AMERlCAN PLAN FIRST CLASS IN EVERY PARTICULAR NEWLY FURNI)HED, R~ENOVATED and ENLARGED- Send for Catalogues All 0 u tside Roorns WM. J. GEASON j3.50 and up Manager. Schenectady, N. Y. II Snappy Styles For Young-Men We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YoUNG MEN's SHOES-and no whe e will you find such an array of exclusive styles as we are showing. In our Fall Display rou will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the new shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes yC>u' II find here, made in styles to please the young men of fashion. Exclusive styles is our hobby; styles you' 11 'find in no other store. Convince yourself by a look at our display windows. Prices from $3 .oo to .$7 .oo. HUBER'S, 457 State St.,

i ' ! ' . . ~ i 18 rl'HE OONOORDIENSIS A. R. Zita's Orchestra furnished music at Union Col- lege 1905, '06., '07, '08, '09 ' * BEST DANCE MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-VV Orz.ly tlze Best Se1·vice. No Better for Concert Office and Res.: 3}~ P~ain St., Albany, N.Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine Metropolitan Service SANDERS The Oldest Optical Establishment in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY May be you know us and our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of \The Schenectady Clothing Co.\ · (Gibson, ·Walton & Hagadorn, Edison Hotel Building ) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD & HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street Wood Bros .... M·en's Outfitters Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's Kid Gloves Sole Agents for Star Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 STUDENTS· We Want Your Banking Business The Schenectady Trust Company 318-320 State St. -----------------------------------~ Home Phone 1191 H. R. Phone 1764-W Compliments of H. S. w~EEKS .ArtLHie Decorator-Dealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall Paper, Wood Jvlantles, Et.o. Jo!:! Work i· eatly Dore 106 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N·. Y. (i-Q()DM..c\N ~a-tei('er a:t1.d i[)elicatessen ~e:rves and ~ells t~ver m!ifty V a.rieties of ~.a:r~d v~riches 107 aay ~treet Both Phones e;, Stearns-Foster'' $10 Cotton ~ Felt Maitress They measure almost up to tbe $15 Sta.ndard! If you. wi~h something that is sanita.ry, comforlable, altngether good and ·quite unusual in its quality and make up, you will not be disappomted in the:o,e mattres~es. .. 1\.. BR\JWN & SON CO. 302 .. 304 State ';. ree·n: ----·--------------~--------------- Eye Glasses { . FIT1'ED MADE REPAIRED Goggles, Opera Glasses, Field Glasses Binoculars and Reading Glasses Amber, Smoked, Blue and White Glasses of all kinds BEN V. SMITH, Optometrist 50 North Pearl Street ALBANY, Nr Y. L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Alwa) s Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 242 .. L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to 13arhyte & Devenpeck COAL AN·D MASON SUPPLIES Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N.Y. Some students work because they have to; sotne because they think they ought to; some because they like to. In any case it is eas.ier if they lead the \ELECTRIC LIFE\ SCI-IENECT ADY ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIE~fY PRINTING The Evening Star Job Department ''AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206 \ ·'

The .Hill Copyr.t;;, ... · <I.)OI) by Hart Schaffner & Mar,. Hart, Sch-affner & ~1 arx- Suits are deser,redly popular. We sell ·them. In offering H·art, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best Colle~ e F el:lo .vs Clothes made . .... With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaks\ any they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fello\VS don't all say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-242 STATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLOTHIER

-~ ~ ~~THE~~ ~ ~ CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXXIII NUMBER 14 . . JANUARY 19·, 1910 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDEN·TS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

2 THE CONOORDIEN.SIS • • • UNION UNIVERSITY • • • CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHM,OND,.D. D., Chancellor UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECT.ADY, N. Y. The College offers undergraduate courses as follows: l.--<1LASSICAL COUlRSE;S-Leading to the De· gree of A. B. A. Greek is required for admission to this Course. B. Greek i-s begun at entrance and is required for four ye-ars. 2.-'LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE--Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. This Course offers Latin without -Greek. 3.-----~SCIENTIFIC COURSE_.Leading to the Degree of B. S. In -courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater part of the work of the last two years· is elective, 4.-IGENERAL ENGINEERIN 1 G COURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. During the third and fourth years two alterna_ ti ve options are offered in this Oours·e. Option A---JI:Q. which the fundamental princi- ple·s of advanced technical subjects receive ·emph·asis. Option B-In which studies are offered w·hich give a preparation f.or engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. 5.---~GENERAL ENOINE'ERING COURSE, of six yea.rs, leading to the degrees of B. E . .and Ph. B. This Cours·e provides college and technical training ·by com.bining ·courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANITARY ENGINEERIN,G OOURSE-LeadL. -ing to the Degree <>f B. E. 7.----~ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING COURSE- Leading to the Degree of B. E. The .College oft:ers also graduate courses in Engineering of one year's res.idlent study, as :tollows·: 8.---lGraduate Cours·e in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. C. E. 9.-Graduate Cours·e in Electrical Engineering, leading to the Degree of M. E. E. For catalogue, addr·ess FRANK ·COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, S~henectady, N. Y. There Must Be a Beginning Why not make it now? $x.oo will open the account Interest begins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ' ALBANY MJEniOAL COLLE·GE-In.struction by Lectures, Recitations, Clinics, Laboratory Work, Practical Demonstrations and Operations. Hospital and Laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa~ tion, s,ent on application to W1ILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Regi'Strar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF. LAW ALBANY LA \\VV SCHOO:L---JThis department of the University i.s located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupi:es a building w·holly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is two years, each year is divided into two semesters. EXPENSES------Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. · For catalogue or other information, ad- dr·es·s ALBANY LAW SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLE,GE OF PHARMIACY---.Exer_ cises held in Albany Medical College building. Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of six and one-half months each. Fees, eighty dollars pe·r term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, address THEO:PORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., .Albany, N. Y. Secretary. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YATES' BOAT HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State 'If Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Private . Parties Only, in connec- tion with house : : : : : : : : : 29 FRONT STREET, SCHENECTADY

THE CONC0l{D\_~N818 THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N.Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPRO()F FRED'K W. ROCKWELL fJunday Evening 'iilinn~r Special Orchestral Programme t3upper after the ii?lay Music in G. i 11 begins at 10.30 IDinner Music in Grill Friday and Saturday Evenings Dinner Music 'IDaily 6. 30 to 8.30 o'clock: All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S lGUROUEAN HOTEL AND REST AURA NT Broa~~way anti Maiden Lane G ENTL1i: :V1EN ONLY AI BANY, N. Y. 250 Rooms I i~ DIES REST A URA:\·T AT'T ACHF.n SPECIAl, NE·vV RATHSKELL:ER BowHng Alley and Bi11iard Roo1n Twenty-5.ve Private Dining Roon1':i 'A ... .\1. H. KEELEH, Pr·op, Annex,;)07 and fll~l Bron<hnt~· COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY~ N, Y. Makers of Caps~ Gowns and lioods To the American Colleges and Universities fron1 the -\ tlantic to the P(lcific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in PURE DRUGS GOOD CIGARS K 0 D A K S PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYLER'S BON BONS and CHOCOLATES • Lyon Drug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 714 Hamillon Sueet I3 McClellan Street A. C. SPALDING & BROS. c ! wx The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAL EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES IF Y 0 U a1.·e tnte.r- ested zrz. A t!zl e ti.J Sport you should IW'l'e a copy of tilt> Spalding Catalogue. It's a complete encyclopedw of What's New in Sport a1zd is snztjree on request. A. G. Spalding & Bros. NEW YORK SYRACUSE

THE Ct)NCOl{DIENSIS Student STU~EN!S furnis~ing thei.r own. roo~s wdl be Interested In our display for their especia~ benefit, from which we quote: Strong Iron :Couches, $'2.75 Reading Tables, $3.50 to $10 Furniture Complete wHh Mattress, 4.7 5 Writing Desks, 3.50 to 24 The Wallace Co. SPECIAL - - From .now until Christmas '' U . · . '' p I. t I Will sell all - - - - lllOll ennan s with Idol Emblem for 69c regular price $1.00 \Union'' Pillow Tops, Idol Em_blern? for $1.48, regular pnce $_ .00. These will make an Ideal Christmas Present to your friends and at very low prices. - 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse Bowling Alley Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. GATES, Proprietor Cigars .. e Cigarettes FRED THALMAN Caterer for Weddings, Receptions, Etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand RES'J'A URA N1, 23 8 State Street Both Phones W.J. FRIDAY Van Curler Opera House First ClassDrugs

THE CoNCORDIENSIS No. 14 VOL. XXXIII UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 19, 1910 TWO BASK:ETBALL GAMES. ---·- Union, 43; S:t. Stephens, 11. Union, 15; Pratt Institute, 48. ---·- During the past week two basketball games ·were played by the Garnet five, one on Thursday night with St. Stephells in which they won b:t' a large score, and one on Saturday night in whicl1 the score was practically reversed in favor of Pratt. In the game on Thursday night the superiority of the Union team was evident from the begil1· n~ng of the game. St. Stephen's · players were inaccurate in locating the \basket and almost in- variably when getting possession of the ball, they would pass it into the hands of a Union player. The Union players all put up a goo·d game; they snowed good head work, were careful in passing, and when s'hooting at the baskets, took time tD make the score sure. The game was characterized by very few fouls on both sides. In the last half Anderson, who shot the fouls for Union, had remarkable success,· not missing a free throw in the w'hole half. In t'he last half Hequem.bourg· and Brumm played as forwards in the place of Coward and Shulter. They both showed 11p v-vell and should develoJl into good, cons'istent players. On Saturday night the game was of a ver·y different nature. The game was played on a strange court with a -wooden instead of a screen background for the bas1~:ets, and the Union five went down to defeat before the fastest team r.n~Y have been up against this season. The Garnet players, however, were game losers and fought pluckily until the whistle blew at the end of the ~arne. In the last half although playing in the fa<:~ of overwheJn1ing ¢lefeat, they kept up their snap until the whistle 'blew for time. They out-playecl Pratt when it came to pass-work, but on account (i)f their unfamiliarity with the baskets were un- able to run up much of a score. Pratt's .center was especially strong and was able to get the ~all on t'l1e toss-up the greater part of the tir11~. The line-up of the Union team was somewhat diff·erent in -the game with Pratt than in the one with St. Stephens. In the first game the line- up was: center, Anderson; forwards, Coward and .Shutler, Brumm and Hequembourg; guards, Cap- tain Charest and Fairbain. In the Pratt ganw the forwards were Goward, Johnson (medical ,1(· partment) and Brumm. Rochester Game Saturday Night. On Saturday night will be played one of the fastest games of the season. It is to be held in the Armory and there is no reason why all th~ students shouldn't be out and hack tb~ t~a m in every way possible. Rochester has a~ready de- feated. Cornell and Penn. ~tA.t.P. ~:::rncl t...,r. 0 ::n'n~t five will need the support of every student 1n college. Although the game may end in defeat, every- one may know that each person on the tearn is playing his level best, and is the best man that can he obtained for that position. The members of the tean1 are doing everything they can to 1nake the team stronger. and whatever the re- sult of the game, they deserve nothing but the; praise of the students. INTERCOLLEGIATE. The de·bating councils of Syracuse and of the College of Oratory of Ohio Wesleyan University have ch·osen as the subj-ect of their debate scheduled for next spreng the same question that was selected as the subject for the triangular de- bate between Union, Colgate and Hamilto~. This question was original!Y submitted by the Union Council. The debate between Colgate and Syra- cuse will also be on the san1e question.

r: ~ !, '1:' .I 1: i ' [ ! : : I I ' ' I ' ' ! I THE CONCORDIENSIS BERGAN FOR ,BASKET.BA.LL COACH. At a meeting of the athle 1 tic council last week Wednesday \Tolnmy\ Bergan, our last year's ·Cap- t·ain, was chosen coach of the base·ball team for the coining season. Bergan has played on the tean1 foT the past four years and from the stand- P<:Jint of consistent playing and popularity an1ong the students a better n1an could n·ot have been HOCKEY GAME WITH BOAT CLUB. In the first game of the season a.nd th·at a prac- tice game, Union's hockey team was defeated by a team representing the Schenectady Boat Club. The game· was played Wednesday, January 12, on the Bo-at Club rink. The final score was 7 to 1. The College team ha-d had but litUe practice and to this and to the fact that the play·ers had named to n1ake the team for 1910. He is a mem- never played together befoTe is attributed the ber of the Senior class this year, but owing to large score rolled up ag,ainst them. Union's the four yeaT eligib-ility rule in force at Union he will be barred from plaY'ing as a member of the team. Bergan is vice-pr.esiden't of the gradu- ating class, a 1nen1ber of the Terrace Council, and a rnember of the B. I. W. Club. S. K. Hyde. manager of the baseball team, has cornpleted the schedule for the coming seas:.an. It has been ratified by the athletic council and will now he bro·ugh t before the Faculty for approvaL The schedule includes fourteen games in ·all ana is 11nderstood to be one of the best arranged in years. Svstematic indoor praetice during the winter ' . tern1 has been planned and ·will shortly be started. It is ex:pe0ted that this will keep the fellows in passing was a U.ttle slo·w and th·eir goal shooting was somewhat faulty. The first half ended with a S·core of 1 and 5. In the second half, although Captain Walser was forced to be out of th·e game, o:wing to a.n injury sus- tained by being hit in the f·ace with the puck, Uniol}. held their opponents down to two goals. During mos:t of this half the puck was kept in the center of the rink and there w·ere few ·opportuni- ties for either side to shoot for a goal. Captain Wlalser, ·who is als·o manager, states that he has corresponded with thirteen n1·anagers of college hockey team.s, but owin.g to the lateness of the seas·on finds it difficult to arrange a schedule. Two games will be :played with vicinity teams, one with the Boat Club on Janu- ary 22 and the other with a team representing the M'ohawk Golf Club. The line up of the temns in J.ast Wednesday's game was as follows: Boat Club Union G.off . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Trapp Left wing. Bryan e ' • t • t t e t t e t t t t I t I t t t t I I I _. I I Darby, Peters Rover. Gardiner 1 1 t 1 • t 1 I 1 I t I I t I I I t I I I I I I I I I I Reidinger Center. D·avis . , . , . , ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wilcox Right Wing. Schoolcraft ..................... ' . Walser, Capt .. Cover point. L.angley ......................... - ..... . Lincoln .................... Kriegsrnann, Minuse Point. Maxwell ............................... Buckley Goal. training and get the,m in condition for hard out Time of halves, 20 and 15 minutes; refereer door practice early in the spring. M'ann; timer, Schaus.

- Tl-lE C(JNCOI~DIENS.IS t A FOOTB,ALL CHANT. --·- For the Use of the Rules Committee. --.-·- Thrice the score card boy hath wept- Thrice, and once the umpire swooned-· Even women hide their eyes. . Come, 0, come then, wizards dire, Get the cauldron, light the fire; Spite of trouble, toil aRd pain We must change the rules again. Games should always be amended Wlhen their faults are advertised. Games should always be amended When the papers want 'em ended. Double, double, toil and trouble; Boil and bubble, cauldron, bubbie. Brother wizards, say who durst, What gpes in the cauldron first? Forward passes, neutral zones~ Downs in five yards, downs in ten, Fifteen, twenty (please say wnen! ) Safeties, mass-IJlay-old or new- A 11 ''improvPments\-let them stew! Double, double, toil and trouble; Boil and bubble, cauldron, bubble. Next tbe adjuncts to the game- All the praise and all the blame, Cheers and songs and franti-c cries, Broken ribs and blackened eyes, Frightened leaps of referee, Fragments of the centre's knee, Coa~h's c:1rse and captain's prayer, Relatives' upstanding hair- Every feature, kind or cruel, Must be added to the gruel. Double, double, toil and trouble; Boil and bubble, cauldron, bubble. Ah, but w11en the brew is done, All the fresn amendments won, All the faults put out of door, All the rules made \new\ once more, What will be the style of play That our men must then essay? Rugby? socoof? hide and seek? Hunt-the-slipper? tag'? bozique? Nlo one knows. But this is clear- It will only last a year. Then-another pot of tro:ubles: Bubbles, bubbles-all is bubbles. -Yale Alumni Weekl~T \'Vith apologies to Macbeth.\ N. Y. U. GAME JUNIIOR WEEK. T'he basketball game with N. Y. U. has been scheduled for Saturday of Junior Week. Tht~ gam·e will begin promptly at 7: 00 o'clock so that anyone who desires to, can get a way earJ Y enough to attend any of the social function' whi·ch may occur on that evening. This will be one of the few times that a N. Y. U. team bas ever played against Union in S.c11enectady and every effort will be made to have the game H success from every standpoint. DRA.MATIC CLUB. T·he Dra.matic Club is now holding regular re- he:lrsals three times a week. Tbe systen1 of fines used in the Glee Club has been ado}Jted and it looks as though the e·fforts of the dramatists would end in success. The play, ''A Family Affair,\ will be presented in the Van Curler some time thfs winter. There are six characters in the play. Besides these there will also be several extr.:t \stunts.\ There is a possibility that the club may take a trip to Connecticut. Several towns in that state are anxious to have the Union Dramatic Club present their progra1n, and if a suitable schedule can be arranged the trip will probably be made. T'H EM EETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 'T'he annual meeting of the Board of Truste23 will be held on the twenty-fifth of this 1nont11. S.everal matters, it is understood. of i ::n p~H· tance are to be brought up at this m.eeting. So:n·e- thin.g definite w1ill prQbably be done regarding the site f.or the new proposed gym and athletic field.

j I . j . . i ._ ...... -------- 8 T'HE OONCOI{DII1JNSIS ====================================================================· The Concordiensis A Litenn·.r and News \Veekly Published by TilE STUDENTS 011' UNION UNIVERSITY. En t <'l'f'!l at tlw Postoffice nt Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, II. n. \Tnn DE>usen. '10, Phi Delta r.rheta House. Af.\SIS'r ANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, T. D. Walser, '10. BUSINESS MANAGER, A. R. Chaffee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIA':rE EDITORS, ,J. BPnkler. '11. W. D. Cavert, '11. REPORTORIAL STAFF, II. T. Cnse, '13. J. H. Potter, '12. R. P. Patterson, '12 II. A. Schermerhorn, '12. COLLEGE DIRECTORY. 1 L. A. IIPqnemhonrg, '10 .....•.• Captain Football ..... II. K. IIntehPll~, '10 ........... ::\1u.nager Bnsketball •.• Trn<:k ....... . Basehall ..... Y. :.\I. C'. A .... ~!:mm· Court Terrace ( 'onncil 1 .T. G. Cllare-;.;t, '10 .............. Captain .T. Zim!llPl\ '10 ................ ::\ianager ~ A. IL DPnni~. '10 ............... Captain H. H. Ut't>rPl', '10 .............. Manager ~ H. P. ~. K. StPwai·t, '10 .............. Captain IIy<lP, '10 ................ :\-Ianager { ~- }f. <'nn'I't. '10 ............. President .r. I I. P nt t PI'. '1:! .............. Secretar;y 5 T. D. W .. nl~Pl', '10 .............. President ( W. D. C'aVPI't, '11 .............. S<:>cretm·y { ~. ~L <':n·:'l't. '10 .............. President II. li. <*I'oVPI', '10 ............. Secretary :\fnsical Clubs Glee, 0. A. Faust, '11 ............. Leader { r. K f:;mitll, '10 ............... ::.\-1ana~er ::\Inndoliu, ~. 'V. Slutter, '10 .... LendPr i II. G. Van Densen, '10 .......... Editor Concordiensis A. R. Cha ffPP, '10 .............. :\Ianagpr Wll Gnr:tlet .• 5 .1. I1Pnkl!';\·. '11 .......... F:(litor-in-Chief ~ T.- }[. Tow11 ~PlHl. '11 ......... 13m~. :\!gr. 1 A. E. KriPg:4maB, '10 .......... President Press Club •.• II. :'\. Tmmlmll, '1:! ........... RPri·etm·y TE:IDIR: Onr ~nh~rription .................................. $:!.00 Sin.!rle ropiPS •................................ 10 Cents. PuhliPntion Office, Schenectady Eve-ning Rtm·. The Allison-Foote debate, whicb was held in the chapel last Fri- day evening, was unusually suc- cessful and gives .good evidence that 'debating interests at Union are stea-dily gaining in strength and in import- UN:ION'S DEBATING liNI'T EHESTS. a nee. This debate, however important, is yet only a forerunner of our more important inter-colle- giate debating. Union has every reason to be prot:d of the laurels that she has won in this field during the last two years. During this time 'her schedule has included Hamilton, Rutgers, 2.nd Colgate, all leaders in th2 debating world of the smaller colleges, and in every contest Union has carried away the· palm of victory. The Triangular Contraet of Hamilton-Colgate- Union, whic11 has been entered upon this year, demands two debating teams in the field at the same time. It is, therefore, highly important that an increased number of men, both for their own sake and the sake of the college, interest themselves in this interesting and valuable work. And it is equally important that the student body give to this field of intercoPegiate rivalry tbe same loyal support that is given to our athletic inter·ests. For the past four months we OUR HONOR have been living under an honor SYSTEM. system, and now that a series of final examinations has been neld under its principles, it is safe to form some con- cln:ir.n as to its fai1ure or success. 'It will be remembered that during the heated argument over the subject last spring, many grave doubts were expressed as to whether the system could work satisfactorily at Union where so large a part of the curri·cul urn work consists of technical subjects, and more than one person ventured the prophe-cy that although it would be successful in the long run, we must necessarily expect that it would be a partial failure during the first few years or its existence here. What, then, has been the actual working out of the system? The results are surely gratifying .

'l'HE OONOORDIENSlS indeed, to every Union ma.n wlio has at heart the \relfare of the college, and desires to see the suc- cess of every undertakin.g tba t tends to uplift the moral standing of the eoHege, and make the name of Union more respected in the -outer world. Great credit is certainly due to the mem- bers of the honor court -who have worked so faithfully to makce fne system a success, and to the students in general, many of whom showed during the last examination that they -would rath· er be unsustained than cornrni t an act, which at the very beginning of the _systen, might be the to he postponed. These student mass meetings for the purpose of hearing such a man as Dr. Put- ter .are something new. It is needless to say that they deserve t'he supiJort of the student body r. s ':1. whole, and that no one can afford to n1iss h i.s mess8ge to the men of his Alma Mater. first step toward making it a failure. We must, however, ahvars guard against t'h~) mistake of thinking that since the system is now so firmly started, it is certain to succeed in tbe future. As soon as any student loses in any de- gree that spirit which has thus far manifested it- self so strongly, he is so-wing the seed whi·ch mav multiply and ultimately r11in the system. It should be a cause of -pride to every Union student tbat the spirit of honor has become so firmly 'implanted in our student life, and if everv student continues to strive that it may becom<,i more firmly rooted in the futuTe, we may count it one of the most valuable acqllisitions of recen+. years to our college spirit. The coming week promises t0 A MEMORABLE be one that will be long re· WEEK. m:em\bered by t1e student bodY, because of tre visit of Dr. Pot- ter and his tan~s on the problems of cnllege men. Few men 1\now better than Dr Potter the spe- cial problems and questions of ·co1lege men, and there are few who 'bring stronger messages to college fellows. He 11as been heard at Amherst. Williams Princeton and othe.r colleces, and everY- , ALLISON--FOOTE DEBATE LAST WEEK. - --- - . i'ry-outs for the Triangular Debate. At present the debating interests of the college are occupying the ·attenti-on of tbe students to an unusual degree, and the enthusiasm which is being aroused over debating is secondary only to that manifested to·ward basketball. The annual Allison-Foote debate was held last Friday between the Adelphic and Phi1omathe1n Societies. In s.pite of the inclemency of tht= . weather there was a large attendance of students and city friends; the de bate was an interesting one; and the affair was considered a success fron1 every standpoint. T'b.e subject: \Resolved That a Graduated In- come Tax Should Be Mlade a Part of Our F'edera1 System of Taxation,\ was well thrashed out by b-oth sides, and after the decision of the judges, there seen1ed to be no doubt in the rninds of the audience but that an incon1e tax would be un- able to w,ork successfully in the United States. The affirmative side of the argument was de- fended by the Adelph ic team. which was conr:Josed of Carmichael, '10; Rogers, '13; Coplon, 10, and For the Philo':natheans the Dunn, '12 alternate. negative side 'Was upheld by Potter '12; Bartlett, '10; S. M. Cavert, '10, and Hanigan, '13, alternate. N1ne minutes ·were allowed for each .speech in the dire-ct argument and six minutes for rebuttaL In taking up the subject the ·affirmative side attempted to show that an income tax is desirable and just, and that the money fron1 this tax is needed for the running expenses o.f the govern- ment. They, also, sho,wed tbe success with which it has worked in other countries. In opposition to the argument of the Adelphi,cs, where and has been .cordiallY received and has brought to the men valuable thoughts and ideaL::\ Dr. Potter is one of our 'best known and mos~ loyal young alumni. We are justly proud of him. We are glad to hear that the m.eetings of the various student activities on these evenings are the negative attempted to set forth the reasons why this tax should not be levied in the United s.tates. The Philoma.thean tean1 was somewhat stronger in the rebuttal speeches and succeeded

10 ~rHE CONCOI{DIENSIS in overthrowing some of the strong·est arguments of the affirn1ati ve. The individual speeches were all good with few exceptions, considering the fact that for several of the speakers it was their first public appear- ance in college debatin.g. One of the strongest and most forceful speeches was set forth by Bartlett, '10, the president of the Philomatheans. Bartlett is nnw the most experienced debater in college and it will he 1nainly under his guidance that the intercollegiate work will be carried on. The judges, all of whom ·are lawyers and Union graduates-Irving W. Wtiswall of Ballston Spa, Charles F. Bridge of Albany and James W .. Fergu- son o.f Anrsterdarn-were unanimous in awarding the prize for the team presenting ~the best argu- n1ent to the Philom·atheans, and the individual prize to S. lVL Ca vert. AN EX·CEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY FOR MEN OIF u N liQ.N.. 'Through the .generous loyalty .of Dr. Leander Hall of the class of 1856, .the Gymnasium Asso-cia- tion ·has been enabled to offer the membeTs of the student body a condensed histnry of U'nion College from 1795 to 190:6. The book, which is a hand- some volume of 160 pages, strongly bound in garnet cloth, c-onta!ins also the history of the fam~ous. elass of 1856. This class inc1udes so1ne of \'Union's most wid·ely known sons and no under- g-raduate can read its history without gaining •thereby an inspiration. It also contains these special features- h i.storlc and me::nory sketches of the faculty of 1856; . forty-one full-page half tone illustrations. includin.g three Union College presidents, eight Drofe2sors, 23 members of the Class of '56, six Try-Outs for Triangular Debate. Cnllege scenes, and \Uncle Jimmie\ with his n1ail The first try-out for the triangular debate be- bag. tween Union, Hamilton and Colgate, which is to be held on March 4, on the same subject, was held Wednesday afternoon. There were a large num- ·ber o.f persons out for p.ositions on the team and Union should be represented by two strong teams in the coming debate. The final try-out, when the eight men will be selected, will be held ·on Friday afternoon. TRACK PROSPECTS. The outlook for the track tea.m is unusu·ally bright for the coming season. Minch enthusiasm is being shown in the indoor practice that is now going on. At the first call for indo·o:r work made by Cap't. Dennis twenty-five men were out and interest in the success of the team is increasing. There are possibilities of a triangular meet with Amherst and H·amilton in the near future and it is expected that a team representing Union will be sent to Uti-ca to participate in a dual indoor n1eet with Hamilton. Union will also be repre- sented at the Olympic meet to be held at Tr·oy this m.onth A MIX-UP IN CARDS. The young m :tn Jed for a heg_ rt, The maid for a diamond p1ayed, The old man came down with a club, And the sexton used a spade. Say don't you think I'm a joker?-Exchange. The number of available copie;s is lin1ited and ·al? they will arrive very shortly, a.pplicati()ns f.or copies may be filed at the college -office. The price suggested by the publisher was $2.50, but arrange-ments have been made whereby they m1.y be obtained by students at $1.00 per cJpy. Not more than two copies at th:is price can be sold to any one purchaser. They will be delivered in the order of RlJPlic3:- Uon at the college office. The entire 1:ro·ceeds will be turned over to the new Gymnasium Fund and this, aside from the far:t that they are in t~emselves h 1ndsoan1e n1on1en- toes of Union, will make the· demand far gre::ttel~ than the sur;ply. FEI ont your application at once. NEW PICTURE IN LIBRARY. A new picture has been received by the librarian from Mlrs. Theodore Douglas ·of Briar- cUff Manor, N. Y. It is a bequest from Eugene H·oward Lewis. The painting is of Tbomas Mum- ford of the class of '37, who was ·a native of Olean, and for some time a merchant in 8c henectady. Recent discovery n1·ade by a certain distin- guished Fres,hman: You don't have to turn a telescope on Mars to find canals.-Exchange.

'\rHE UN!OfV co·, Ll£~r: OONOORDIENSIS ...?~ liBBAH~! DR. :POTTER'S VISIT. Prominent Alumnus t1o S.peak to Colle•ge M~eh. Dr. Rockwell Harmon Potter of Hartford, Con.n., whose promised visit at the college was indefi- nitely announced by Dean Ripton at a chapel ' service two weel{S ago, is to be on the Hill for the first half of next week, January 24 to 26 in- elusive. Dr. Potter has consented to give a series of talks to the fellows, dealing with the men. These mass meetings are to bo held in the chapel at eight o'clock for three ·evenings. On Monday evening he will speak of ''The Greatest Motive in Life\; on Tuesday evening, \The Greatest Problem in Life\; on Wednesday evening, \The Greatest Work in Life.\ Dr. Potter was graduated from the college in 1895, being the valedictorian and always one nf the most active men of the Centennial Class. For the past ten years 'he has been pastor of thA First Church o.f Christ in Hartford, one of the largest eongrega tional Churches in New England. During this time he has had offers of some of the leading ch1Jrches of New York and Boston, and has always been urged to ac·cept t'he posi- tion of Dean of Yale Divinity School Yet 'he has clung to his work in Hartford, which under his direction has become very 'important, indeed. At the 1907 ·Commencement Mr. Potter was honored with the degre~ of Doctor of Divinity from his Alma Mater. Two years ago he con- ducted the service at our Day of Prayer for col- leges. It is with the greatest pleasure that he will be welcon1ed at the college once more. Drr. Potter is a member of the Union Chapter of Chi Psi, and will be entertained at their Lodge during his visit here. M US,IICAL CLUBS. Tbe Glee Club has been cut to twenty-four men, and probably another substra~ction will be made before the next trip. The Mandolin Clu·b is pra·cticing hard on two new pieces, and will probably have three mem- bers on t11e \•;inter program of the Musical Clubs. The Popular Drug Store Fellows bring their friends to QUINN, S for refreshments when down town. Our ~oda Fountain presents a very attrac- tive menu now-a-days.. There's- Sandwiches Salads Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea lee Cream Coffee Soda All are extra good and are served in the characteristic Quinn manner WM. H. QUINN Druggist Vendome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre S1s .. THE ALUMIN R.EUNION. On F'ebruary fourth a new precedent is to be establis·hed a1t Union. Prexy has made an effort to gather together on this day representatives from every class for the la.st for:ty years. The greatest number of Union's most prominent n1en are n1emhers of ~these thirty or forty classes. It is expeoted that M:elvil1e B. Lanley, perhaps better known as Eli Perkins, will be present at this notable gathering. Several other very prom- inent men, it is expected, will be present. JUST ACROSS FROl\11 GREEN GATE .... ~:::--- -- .. I ~---~ _.._...:.--- _..:::;_.,. ' ~~ ' FINK'S PHARMACY • • • - ....... '1-l, • it;\:.· THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP

' j ,j,_, ! ~ . >.\ 1-·; '~ . ' \ . I . l BUSINE'SS MEN TO BEAUTJ.FY CAMPUS. Prominent business men of Scheneetady have started a n10vement to raise by subscriptio:n an1ong the citizens of the city the sum of $25,000, \Yhich is to be used in beautifying the college campus. An appeal in the form of a circular hC! s recently been sent out by those who have thr matter in hand, explaining the plan of the com- n1 i ttee and .asking for support in the enterprise. Tl1e committee, \\Vhich has charge of raising this money is ·composed of E. W. Rice, Joseph W Smitley, W. L. R. Emmett, W. T. Hanson, and Dr. W. L. Pearson. It is felt by the membets r.f this committee that. Union Gollege is entitled to son1e assistanre from the people of Schenec- tady, and after a n1eeting at w'hich President Ricll mond was present, it was decided that th.::; money should be spent on the campus .. In the circular letter which was sent out, the committee made special recognition of the fa·ct. tr R t for over a hundred years Union has fu,.- ,iohed opportunitjes for hig'ber education at small f'cst to tlle young men of the city-that she has c:<ant 011t her sons \by tfie hundreds to become leaders in the philanthropic life of the comm,l. nity, and that s'be h~s served the public disinter- ()C1-~Pd1v in many other ways. Among the many improvements which were \Y'l\nrosed ·was thP project of ere·cting an orna- mental iron fence from the Public ~ ibrarv on Union Street to I ibrary Lane opposite St. John'~ Chnrch. It was also proposed to repair the teY'· race and the stone wall, to do extensive plantin~ of shrubs and yonn ~ trees, to repair and re-18 \T the college roads and w~ll{s, to level and gra.-le off rough portions of the grounds, and to pre- serve the old elms which adorn ''Jackson's Gar dens\ and the rest of the \hilL\ JUNIOR '(PROM.\ Arrangements are now practie 1.lly completed for t'he \Prom.\ The ·COinmittee have done thelr part and it only remains for the students to do theirs. E.veryone should commence to mal\:8 preparations and be sure that b,e will be able to :1tten r1. The patronesses who have been invited to he present at the \proni\ are: Mrs. Richmond, Mrs. Hale, Mrs. Barnes, Mrs. Ferguson. M;rs. Mitcilell, Mrs. Stoller, Mrs. Ripton, Mrs. Landreth, Mra. Ashmore, Mrs. Garrison, Mrs. McKean, Mrs. Van Voight1ander, Mrs.- Bennett, Mrs. Ellery, Mrs. Garis, Mrs. Hughes, Mrs. Morss, Mrs. Coffin, Mrs. McMurray, Mrs. Cameron, Mrs. Dillingham, Mrs. A tldn, Mrs. Whitmyer, Mrs. Arg·eniger, Mrs. Donnan, Mrs. Grover, Mrs. Coran, Mrs. Towne, Mrs. Reynolds, Mrs. Girvin, Mrs. Hyde, Mrs. Gibbs, Mrs. Watkins, Mrs. Featherstonhaugh, Mrs. Brainerd, JYirs. Yelverton, Mrs. Van Voast, Mrs. Green, Mrs. Veeder, Mrs. Carmichael, Mrs. Van Deusen, Mrs. Rohrer, Mrs. Hotchkiss, Mrs. Townsend, Mrs. Ripley, Mrs. Sean1ans, Mrs . Paterson, Mrs. Case, Mrs. Kriegsmann, Mrs. Clements, Jr. MISS LERNER'S RECITAL. On Tuesday evening, January 18, many studen·:-s and music lovers of the vicinity enjoyed a con- cert given in the college chapel by Miss Tin!1 Lerner, the noted Russi2n pianist. Miss Lerner brilliantly render€d tl1e following numbers: Alceste ....... - ............... Gluck Saint Saens Intern1ezzo, A major ................... _ . Brahrn.::; Rando Capriccioso ........... _ . . . . Mendelssohn Prelude, F sharp 1ninor ............. · ...... Chopin Nocturne, F major ....................... Chopjn Waltz, op. 34, A flat ........... _ ... _ ..... Chopin Sh F h . C'l. c erzo, s arp m1nor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . nopin W~itches' Dance ...................... 1VIacDow8l1 Nocturne ............................. _ . . Metzl Etude in A minor ................. Paganine-Liszt Sonnetta di Petrarca ....................... Liszt Polanaise, F major ......................... Liszt Great thanl\s is 'due President Richmond for arranging this musical treat. The rest of t11e concert series consists of the following: Febru- ary 4, George Hamlin, the noted tenor. March 31, the Flonzaley Quartet. The best enginee,ring-·\building a bridge of faith over the river of death.-The Minerva.

'I'HE CC1Nc~onDIENSIS 1.3 IN OTHER COLLEGES. January 17, 1910. Jacob Itiis spoke recently at the University of Illinois. ·The W:()n1an's Literary Society of the University The college meeting was opened as usual by the singing o.f Alma Mater, following ·which was sung \Come Now to the Campus.'' Potter led a long yell f.or the team and a siren for \Johnny\ of Minnesota will present Julius Caesar, a musical burlesque on Shakespeare's play of th·at name, and an ancien·t morality play interspersed with old . Cbarest. Englisn dances. The University of Nebraska is unique in that Captain Charest s.poke ·of the ga.me with Pratt last S'aturday and complimented the team on the plucky .fight which they put up in 1 the second half. He said that next Saturday's g-ame with Rochester promised to be a stiff one, as Rochester has beaten Pennsylvania th 1 is term and that the team should be backed by a good attendance. it has no Glee Club. ·Captains of all teams at the University of Iowa will get a star in addition to their letter. The number of years a man has played will be indi- cated by a band on the arm of his sweater.-Con. Foaust said that the concerts to be given in the chapel needed better support by the students, since n1.any people would get their first glimpse o.f Union and Union's students at thes·e concerts. He urged everyone ·who could possibly attend them to co so. Cavert announced that the triangular debEt te with Hamilton and Colgate w·ould come off on March 4, and that more men interested in de- bat·ing were needed. He said, also, that the third verse of \Old Union Beside the Mohawk Dale,\ publishe1 in last week's Goncordiensis should be learned by all and sung at the next college meeting. PHI GAMMA DELTA 'CONVENTION AT UN,ION. --- Dr. Steinmetz To Be Toastmaster at Banquet. On February 25 and 26, Section III of the Phi [ :trnmn Drlt:t fra cernity, v/hich incl ucl.es the chan- ters at Union, Colgate, Cornell, and Syracr:.se, wi11 hold its annu1l convention with the Union Ohap- . ter. A number of delegates are expected anrl preparations are being n1ade for a large gather- ing. On Saturday morning and afternoon the tilnt' \Vil1 be devoted to business s~ssions. On Frida~' evening a stag party will be held at t11e Mo:la\viz Theater and on Saturday nj ?;h t the annual ban- ' . quet will be held. At this brcnq'wt Dr Steinmc·' i. who is a member of that fraternity, will be toast- master. Andrew Carnegie bas presented $30,·000' to I11i- nois \V1esleyan University to be used toward a new science building. Women's tea.ms in handball have been organized at Washington. The Aero Club of Pennsylvania has issue·d a challenge to. tbe aeronautic organizations ·of any college to an intercollegiate meet. There wHl be an ice carnival during the Junior week ~ t Cornell this year. At the first call for track candidates at Penn- sylvania forty-nine men reported. Studtmts at Wisconsin 'Yho cut before and after a vacation may be suspen·ded from the Cn iversity. At Yale and Harvard a fine is im· posed. 'Tv.,·enty-two baseball games have been scheduled at the University of Virginia. The Honolulu students at Virginia gave a concert recently. Tbe University Dramatic Club at Nebraska presented a play entitled \What tne -:.vratter vVith the Professor\ a few nights ago. THE OPENING OF THE NEW ENGINEERING BUILDIG. As yet nothing definite has been dedcled upon by the Board; it i.s, however, generally understood that Andrew Carnegie, the donn~:n~ of one hundred thousand dollars toward this latest improvement for Union's equipment, which makes her stand- ing second to none, will be present at its formal opening. The best war-the war against one's weakness.

';,• ., .. , ' ... ',.' ·: r: u. ~~ I I, .;·I . 1 ! I 1 , I I I ' l I ' l j I 14 THE tAlN(JOl{DlEN~IS Now 1{eady! Glee Club and Football Pictures A !so Artistic Frames WHITE, The Photographer PHILIP T. HILL, College Reprensentative TWIN·K'S TALES. Thy met in the evening twilight And talked of their ardent love; They plighted their troth to each other By the stars that glea1ned above. But when on the following morrow They chanced on the street to meet? They passed each other like strangers And failed one another to greet. And yet she hadn't jilted him~ Nor given him the sUp; He was a student at Union And she-·a Schenectady chip. ( Sel. by '\Twink.\) INTERCLAS'S BASKETBALL. The Freshman a.nd Sophomore basketb:1:1 te-:1ms are now organiz.ed and practic1ng almost. daily. The Freshmen have several games wilh ou~sldcL·~ in view, while the Sophon1ores have already played some out of town ga.:nes. A series of five games is to be played becw ee .. 1 the two underc1ass Le.uns, the tlrst ga.me conLn.s off pr·obably this Saturday. BRIEFS. Oh! you \Gym\ p1ano. :VIcCorma~k, 'J9; ~che]:..er, 'lJ, and Travis, '11, spent Xmas vacabion in Beaufort, S. C. \Pope\ Toledo is back in college afLer a11 a .. LL~\ ·of the mea.sles. Blodgett, '13, has been ill for the past week. Prof. Garis, now has a private O·ffice adjoining his recitation ro·om. Juniors! pay your class tax. A lecture by Dr. w:hitney, in the chemistry lecture room, Friday evening. All interested should atten·d. Humphrey, '13, has returned home from the Utica ho s·pi tal. The best ma:bhematics~that which doubles th,e most joys and divides the m·ost sorrows. The best na.vigation-~steering clear ,of the lace-rating rocks o.f pe.rsonal con tent ion. The best diplomacy~effecting a treaty of peace with one's own c·onscience. Basket Ball at the Armory Saturday, January Twenty-two Rochester vs\ Union HANANS $6.0 0 PATTON & HALL To- Young Man of Taste Are you inter- ' ested in real fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better for WEAR See our THE URE: FIT~ 1106 $4.00 ''Unions Headquarters for Styles\

rrHE CONOOR])IENSIB 15 Watch this space for the announcement of BABBITT & CO~ ALBANY :: NEW YORK . ..... . . - - . - -:.- - ~ . , __ The ••Ara.-Notch\ makes the uBelmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perf~ctly f5c,2 [ol25 c. Cluett, Peabody & Co. 'Maket'! ARROW CUFFS 25 cents a J. tir Pass Word--- Pschoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Sauer- kraut or Potato Salad ' I ,, ,, ' NICHOLA US --------------------------------- Picture Framing-·- Did she give yon her Photograph? Frame It! THE. GLEASON BOOK COe Catering to Ladies and Children VVeber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. T'aylor, Resident Manager rnatin~~ Ev~ry Dil\' Chan~ in~ Pr~gram m~ndav and T\ursday VVITH Bi~ Extrava~anza c~mpanv PRICES-Matinee 10 cents and 25 cents Night, 15 cents to so cents All College News Always in The Gazette Daily Matinee ·for Ladies and Children, 10 cents, reserved any part of the house SEAT'S NOW ON SALE

!. :, :'· ', '· ! :; ::. ~--.i l ! I I I I ··~· I !'.· ll t! ' :i I I I 16 THE OONOORDIENSIS WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration of Any Descrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- able Cut Flowers, an order placed direct with . will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouses and-Nurseries : L. D. Pene 1413 N Y C A Jo Sf f St Town of Florida and Hoffman, N. Y. Home 425 • • • fCaoe, a e · .. You Can SEE The Real Oak Leather In REGAL SHOES -Through the ''Window of the Sole\ There's a little circular slip of paper pasted on the sole of every Regal Shoe. By lifting up this \Window of the Sole \ you can see the white, Live-Oak-tann(d leather underneath-the finest sole leatber in the world. The cheap, red, Hemlock- tanned leather in other shoes is blackened over to hide its tell-tale color. Hemlock leather is brittle and stiff, but Regal Live-Oak-tanned leather is flexible und wears like iron. If you want honest sole leather-if you want shoes that will last-get Regal Shoes at our exclusive Regal agency. $350 $400 and $500 S. IJ. NUSBAUM 2 71 State Street A S•Jtart Regal lilodel For the best things to eat we go to the Crown Hotel Opp. N. Y: C. Depot Wall a:nd Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY G. A. CASSIDY CO·. Pianos, Musical Merchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos State and SCHENE·CTADY Clinton Streets, · · · · The Mohawk Hotel and Batl1s Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOODS & MEEHAN Props. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Rooms : $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russian and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. First Class Restaurant in Connection .. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes~ The Right Place to get it is at McFee's ·Barber Shop 456 State Street Just o.pp. Jay St. ----·--- Geo. B. Cavanagh 214 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

.. 'rHE OONCORDIENSIS Wants every Union man to call an.d see their line of • • 17 Pictures, Calendars, Cards and Christmas Novelties Never mind whether you wish to buy or not, we'll be glad to see you. Schenectady's Refined Amusement Palace High Class Vaudeville and Moving Pictures • • Scb¢U¢~tady; D. ·\'. tir~at~st Show Ev~r Off~r~d at Popular Pri~~s One Block East of Central Station \V. & L. E, GURLEY L. D. Tel. in Every Room. Large, Bright Sample Rooms TROY, N.Y. THE \NEW VENDOME\ · AMERICAN PLAN Civil and Mining Engineers' and Land Surveyors' Instruments Also Scientific Books FIRST CLASS IN EVERY PARTICULAR Send for Catalogues r I Tqe JlJST WRIGHT ShoE NEWLY FURNISHED, RENOVATED and ENLARGED- All Outside Rooms WM. J. GEASON $3.50 and up Manager. Schenectady. N. Y. •• a Snappy Styles For Young Men We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YouNG MEN'S SHOES-and no whe e will you find such an array of exclusive styles as we are showing. In our Fall Display you will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the new shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes you' 11 find here, made in styles to please the young men of fashion. Exdu~ive styles is our hobby; styles you' II find in no other store. Convince yourself by a look at our display window~. Prices from $3 .oo to $7 .oo . '1 ..._. ...... HUBER'S, 457 S t~te St. 1 1 t' 'i I: I '

i I . I . I r8 '1'1-Il~ C()NCOI{DIENSIS A. R. Z -- -l·t.· _ .a'.S -Q-- f· ch- eStf. --a··.· furnished m!usic at Union Col- lege 1905 ':06 '07 '08 '09 ' ' ' ' BEST DANCE M·USIC IN THE WORLiD· H. R. 3071-W Only the Best St>1·z•ia. iVo BettnfM· Concert Office and Res.: 3 Yz Plain St., Albany, N. Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Wailing Room Finest Cuisine Metropolitan Service SANDERS The Oldest Optical Establishment in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY May be you kno-w us amd our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of \rfhe Sehenectad:y Clothin.g Co.\ {Gibson, Walton & Hagadorn. Edison Hotel Building) Cwothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for CoUege Men The Empire Laundry WOOD & HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street wood Bros. . .. Men's Outfitters~. Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's Kid Gloves Sole Agents for Stat Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones

THE OONOORDIENSlS 19 STUDENTS We Want Your Banking Business The Sche~ectady Trust Company 318-320 State St. Home Phone II9I H. R. Phone 1764-W 4 Compliments of H. S. WEEKS Artistic Decorator-Dealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall Paper, Wood Mantles, Etc. Job Work r'eatly Done 1 06 Nott Terrace· Schenectady, N. Y. GOODMAN Cate:r~r .and Delicatessen f'&erves and ~ells Over :ltifty Varieties of ~andwiches 10 7 ~ay Street Both JPhones • c16J!I, .. tt,~ •f Stearns-Foster'' '10 Colton Felt Mattress They .measure almost up to the $15 Standard! If you wish something that is sanitary, comfortable, altogether good and quite unusual in its quality and make up, you will not be disappointed in these mattresses. A. BROWN & SON CO. 302-304 State .~treet Eye Glasses ~ FITTED MADE REPAIRED Goggles, Opera Glasses, Field Glasses Binoculars and Reading Glasses Amber, Smoked, Blue and White Glasses of all k·inds BEN V. SMITH, Optometrist 50 North Pearl Street ALBANY, Nr Y. L. F. NICKLAS 169 ]A Y STREET Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, 242 L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES Office, 3,06 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N. Y. Some students work because they have to ; some because they think they ought to ; some because they like to. In any case it is easier if they lead the \ELECTRIC LIFE\ SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIETY PRINTING The Evening Star Job Department \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206 '' \ '. ' I: I .. l!

The Hill Copyn~L&r ¥:t}09 by Hart SchafFner & Mar• Hart, Schaffner·& Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are snowing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaks\ any they certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don't ~II say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 240-242 STATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLOTHIER .....

- <i ~1 -:4 ~ ·THE • • • • CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME XXXIII NUMBER 15 M ·· . rm•. • .'W' JANUARY 26, 1910 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY 1.. '• ~ I

i I I I ! i j ! I I I i ~ 2 'rHE CONCORDIENSIS • • • • • UNION ·UNIVERSITY •· CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., Chancellor UNION COLLEGE, SCHENEGTADY, N.Y. The Oollege offers undergraduate courses as follows: 1.-CLASSICAL COURSES-Leading to the De- gree of A. E. A. Greek is required for admission to this Course. B. Greek :i!s begun at entrance and is required for four ye·ars. 2.---lLATIN-SCIENTIFIC COURSE-Leading to the Degree of Ph. B. 'rhis Course offers Latin without Greek. 3.-----~SCIENTIFIC COURSE~Leading to the Degree of B. S. In Courses 1, 2 and 3 the greater part of the work of tne last two years is elective. 4.-IGENERAL ENGINEERINO COURSE, of four years, leading to the Degree of B. E. ·During th·e third and fourth years two alterna_ tive options are offered in this Course. Op.tion A~In ·whi.ch the fundamental princi- ples of advanced te,chnical subjects receive -emphasis. Option B-In which studies are offered which give a preparatio·n f.or engineering positions of an executive or administrative nature. 5.~GENERAL EN,GINEERING COURSE, of six years, leading to the degrees of B. E. and Ph. B. This Course provides coll~ge and technical training by com.bining Courses 2 and 4. 6.-SANITARY ENGINEERING OOURSE.-Lle.adL. . ing to the Degree 'Of B. E. 7.-<ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING COURSE- Le-ading to the Degree of B. E. The College offers also graduate cours·es in Engineering of one year's res.idJent srtud;y, as follows: 8.~Graduate Cours-e in General or in Sanitary Engineering, leading to the Degree ·Of M. C. E. 9.--Graduate Course in . Electrical Engineering, leading to th·e Degree of M. ·E. E. For catalogue, address FRANK COE BARNES, Secretary Union College, S'che·Iiectady, N. Y. There Must Be a B·e\ginning. Why not make it now? $r .oo will open the account Interest begins each month Call for Statement The Schenectady SAVINGS BANK Cor. State and Clinton DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY Mffi1oDI CAL COLLE-GE'--In.struction by Lectures, Recitations, Clinics, Laboratory Work, Practical Demonstrations :and Operations. Hosp.ital and Laborat()ry advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion, s-ent ·on ·application to vV1ILLIS G. TUOKER, M. D., Regi·strar, ·Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW \' ALBANY LA. \\V1 SCHOO~This department of the University i.s located at Albany, near the State Capitol. It occupi-es a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is two years, each year is divided into two .semesters. EJCPENSEJS--IJY.Catriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or othe-r information, ad- dress .ALBANY LA WI SCHOOL, John J. Hughes, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLE-GE OF PHARMIACY-Exer_· cises held in Albany M.edical College buhding. Graded course of instruction com:prising two terms of six and .one-half rnon ths each. Fees, eig.hty dollars per term. For catalogue giving full infor- mation, address THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., 4 Lancaster St., Albany, N. Y. Secretary. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigar Stores 301 and 443 State Street YATES' BOAT -HOUSE The Largest and Best Equipped in the State Cjf Excellent Dancing Hall, vvh.ich can be rented for Private Parties Only, in connec- tion with. house : : : : : : : : : 29 FRONT STREET, SCHENECTADY

THE OONCOI{D~~NSIS THE TENEYCK ALBANY, N.Y. EUROPEAN PLAN FIREPROOF FRED'K W. ROCKWELL fjunday mvening IDinner Special Orchestral Programme fjupper after the Ji?lay Music in Grill begins at 10.30 'IDinner Music in «arill Friday and Saturday Evenings Dinner Music 'IDaily 6.30 to 8.30 o'clock All Music by Holding's Orchestra KEELER'S IDUROUEAN HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broa:-1-vvay and lVIaiden Lane GENTL·EMEN ONLY ALBANY, N. Y. 250 RoomB LADIES RESTAURAII\~T ATTACHF.n SPECIAL NE-W RATHSK·ELLER Bowling Alley and Billiard Roo1n Twenty-S.ve Private Dining Room•:; \V~L H. KEELEH, PI'Op, -\nuex,:i04twdi> ll Brorulwny COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N. Y. l\!1 akers of Caps, Gowns and H~~ds To the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty. You will find anything you may happen to want in P'URE DRUGS GOOD CIGARS K 0 D A K S PHOTO SUPPLIES HUYLER'S BON BONS and CHOCOLATES Lyon Drug Stores Corner State and Center Streets 7 !f Hamilton Street 13 McClellan Street A. C. SPALDING & BROS. The Spalding Trade-Mark is known throughout the world as a Guarantee of Quality are the Largest Manufacturers in the Word of OFFICIAl EQUIPMENT FOR ALL ATHLETIC SPORTS AND PASTIMES IF Y 0 U are tnter- estedzu Athleti.J · Spo1 t you should have a copy of tfzp Spalding Catalogue. It's a compte te encyclopedw of What's New- in Sport and is sentJ1·ee on request. A. G. Spalding & Bros. NEW YORK \BUFFALO SYRACUSE

~; II \ I ~· . j ~' I I I' I 4 Student ,, I Tfll~ C<)NCOI{DlENSIS ,STU~EN~S furnis~ing thei_r own_ roon:s will be Interested In our d1splay for their especial benefit, from which we quote: : ! Strong Iron Couches., $~.75 Reading Tables, $3.50 to $10 : ·Furniture Comp~late with Mattress, 4. 7 5 Writing nes:ks, 3.50 to 24 • The Wall ace Co. SPECIAL - - From _nowuntil Chri tmas ''U· · '' Pen·.nants I will sell aH - - - - lllOll - with Idol Embl:em for 69c regular price $1.00 ''Union'' Pillow Tops, Idol Em.blem for $1.48. regular pnce $2.00. These will make an Ideal Christmas Present to your friends and at very low prices. - - 336 State Street Joe Nusbaum The Men's Shop Morse Bowling Alley Ten of the Best Equipped Alleys in this part of the State. Special Prizes each week. Come and see me. ERNEST I. Gi\ TES, Proprietor Cigars Cigarettes • • • FRED THALMAN Cr;zterer for Weddz'ngs, Receptions, Etc. Ice Cream and Ices constantly on hand . 238 State Street .. . . W. J. FRIDAY Both Phones Van Curler Opera House First ClassDrugs

THE CONCORDIENSIS VOL. XXXIII UNION COLLEGE, JANUARY 26, 1910 No. 15 ~------------------~==------a------~·~----------------------------------------~ B.AS,EB·A.LIL. During the past week the baseball s·c:hedule, after havi.ng been ratified lby the athletic council and approved by the faculty, was made . :Public. Tl1.e schedule iB th~e best arranged in recent yea:r-1::1. S. K. HYDE, Manager. April 16-;Pratt Institute at Schenectady. April 2·3-· Rutgers a-t 1New Brunswick. April '27-INew York University at .Schenectady. April 30-/Niagar.a Univerdity at S chenectaJy. May 5-Colgate at ·Hamilton. May ·6-Hamilton at 1 0linton. May 14-Ho bart at Sc:henctady. May 120_jHobart at ·Geneva. 'May 21-Rochester at Rochester. May 27-Rochester at !Schenectady. May 30-lHamilton at 'Schenectady. June 4----:Rutgers at 'Schenectardy. June 7--<Colgate at ·schenectady. BI·QE.LOW F.QH HONORA.RY CHAN:CELLOR. lL includes in all fourteen games, eight of which Announcement Made at Meeting of Board of are to be ·pl,ayel on the ·Campus. Governors. As usual the season is opened with West Point on their dia:;nond. The only entirely unfam.iliar name on the schedule is Niagara Univer:sity. The other teams un:on has met for a -number of years back. Manager ,Hyde i.s to be congratulated up.on H. P. STEWART, Captain. the excellent s·chedule arranged. The large num- ber of home games is especially appreciated by the students. T'l:ie s·chedule is as f·ollows: April 13-West ·Point at West Point. At the meeting of the Board of Governors of the University, which was also held in Albany on Tuesday, it was announ·ced that Jo·h.n Big·elow, '35, hal been secured aa Honorary Chancellor for the commencement exercises next June. Mr. Bigelow, w 1 ho is now in his ninety~second year, is one or the oldes.t and most fa,mous of Union's alumni. Reports of Different Departrn·e~nts. 1Satisfactory re,ports were made to the Board of Governors .by repreaentatives from all the different departments. 'Prof. BenJamin W. Arnold of the Dudley Observatory reported that a map {)f the stars of the Northern Hemisphere is to be presently com- pleted and issued. A similar map of the Southern Hemisphere is being prepared by its station es- tabli.::;hed in Argentine. \Prom\ and Soiree-the best dances of the ·~ ~ear. Don't fail to attend.

\', I ,\ ! <· I i' ! il I, i ' .r ' ' ' • (j s:on's foul throw, e.nded the scoring, the 5 ame tkus resulting twenty-eight to ten. Rochester, 28; U'nion, 10. The game was very rough, and, at some stages, ciliosely resembled football. In the rough playing, In the fastest game, seen here thus far,, Rochester took the lea.d, with sever,al plays that Rochester defeated Union by the decisive score of twenty-eight to ten. Rochester has a better team this year than 1a2t; a11d has been invincible up t0 this time. After defeating Colgate by thirty-two to seventeen t'he previous night, they came 'here .Saturday, anJ had another hard battle before they were victm·- ious. The attendance was very satisfactory to the manage;nent. All the available bleachers were crowded, and many stood; the balcony was also well filled. A preliminary game between the Sophomores and Freshmen was called at eight o'clock. Nineteen hundred anJ twelve had the better team; and, though the Freshmen fought hard, they were defeated, sixteen to five. Smith, for 1912, played an exce}Jtionally good ga:aJ.e. Webb ·captained the \'Sophs and <Dewey the \.Frosh.\ The whistle for the regular game blew at 8:45. For about five minutes no score was made, thou g:1 Union mjssed two ~ood chances. Then Rochester's team-work began to tell. By rapiJ pass-work .and daring throws, ·Rochester netted five baskets and these, wit'h: three fouls, gave them thirteen poinls to Un~on's one, a foul throw by Anderson. At this point, .Hequembourg collided with a Roches·;=.er guard, and Joh·nson took his place. Union took a brace, and held Roc:hester to two baskets in the remainder of the half, Coward mean while shoot- ing a foul. Here the half endeJ, with the score of seventeen to two. In the second half, the Garnet five put up a decidedly better ga:a1e than in the first. They started off with a rush; and, before the middle of the h2Jf, h2d S8Cl~red ~e-ren roints to Rochest- sr's four. Then Rochester made severa1 long \dribbles\ anJ took the lead. Captain Harmon wa~ injured but resumed play shortly after. Though Un;on fought pluckily, Rochester secured lbree more baskets and a fonl, which, with AndPr- bordered on interference. Union's tea:::n~work wa.s a great improvement over that showing in the previous games, and a better game than that played in. the second half is seldom seen. The line-up follows: Harmon, (Capt.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Coward Right Forward. W. Edwards, Kaiser ..... 1 Hequembourg, Johnson Left Forward. Ramaker • • • • • • • • •••••••••• 0 • • • • • • • • •• Anderson Center. H. EdwarJa I I I I f I I f I I I I t I t, f t t I I Charest, (Capt.) Left Guard. Carey f I I I I f I I f I I I f f I I I I I f I I I I f f e I I • I • Fairbairn Right Guard. Basket, from court---~Coward 1, Anderson 1, Cliarest 1; ·Ra:::naker 7, Carey 2, Kaiser 1, Harmon 1, H. ·Edwards 1. Foul throws-Harm.on 4, Cow- ard 3, Anderson 1. Referee- 1 Grout, of Union. Scorers-·Hill and Kaiser. Tirners__,Grover and \Nhittams. DR. CADY TO VISIT ORI ENI NEXT Yf::AR. Rev. Dr. Putnam Cady, pastor of Lhe Emnr:L1l!f 1 Presbyterian Church of A:n1sterdam, who ha.::; for the past two winters given lectures in the college c.;hapel on recent archaeologi.cal discoveries iT\ Egypt and other countr~ es, has been engaged by the White Star Line .Steams·hi p Company as ie~tm·2r on its seventh annual winter cruis~ of the lVIediterranean and Orient in 1911. As lecturer it will be Dr. Cady's work to give formal addresses on ship,boar.i, eovering each p,oint to be visited, on the evening before landing. During the long ocean voyage, the history of each country will he taken tl'p in detail and lectures on art and archaeology will be given. Of course you are going to the Soiree.

'THE CONCOI~DIENSlS 7 JUNIO:R WEEK. Saturday, 7 p. m.-Basketball game, N. Y. U. vs. Union, Armory . .Saturday Evening-iFraternity .lances and ·With· ~h.e .annual Junior festivities but a w.eek o:lif fin.al pland· are being rushed to completion. Pre-Juni-or Week enthusiasm is apparent through- out the college and it i~ with anticipatory im- patience that each fellow is counting the d.ays and h·ours that must be Eved before the arrival theatre parties. of \·his girl.' Junior W\eek this year is expected to surpass all previous oecasion;:; of the kind. Tris Coffin .and Phil Wescott, ·chairmen of tJhe \Prom\ and Soiree comni ttees respectively, have left nothing undone that will in any way adti to the suc·cess of the dances. As udual there will lbe several house parties among the fraternities and these will enjoy dances Saturday night. An added feature for Junior Week will be a basketball game in the Armory at seven o'clock. The ga·me is with New York University· and is expected to be one of the best home ga1nes. Among the fraternities that will have house parties or other forms of entertainment are Ch~ Psi, Psi Upsilon, Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi, Delta Phi, Alpha Delta Phi, Phi Gamma Delta. The musical clubs will give a concert in the High School Auditorium Friday afternoon. Throug~1. the efforts of the Junior Week com- mittees it h·as been decided to abolish the custom of keep~ng the girls supplied with flowers during the week. This has b·Ben done by several other ~ollegea and is looked upon by the students as an excellent decision. The dance programs for the ''Pron1\ and the Soiree have been received. T'he forn1er are made of heavy brown leather, with attractive emboss- ing including the university seal. The Soiree programes are heavy white leather with the university seal in gold on the cover. The program for the week is as follows: Thursday, iFeb. 3-Sophomore Soiree, Golf C1ub. Fridav, Feb. 4, 2: 30 p. m..-Concert by Musical cluba. High 1School. Friday Evening, Feb. 4-Junior \Prom Hotel Ten Eyck, Albany. Saturday Afternoon, Feb. 5-Theatre parties. Are you going to the \Prom?\ ALUMNI TO M·E.ET AT TEN EYCK. Unusually Large Attendance Expected. The. executive committee of the Union College Alumni Association of N·orth·easter.n New York • has announced tih.at the twenty-second annual •1neeting and banquet will be held at the Ten Eyck Hotel in Allbany on February 10. The usual preliminary meeting for ~he election of officerd will be hell in the Corinthian parlor of the Ten Eyck at 7: 45 o'clock, and the banquet will begin at 8:00. As this is the first 1neeting since the inaugura- tion of Dr. Richmond, .a large attendance is ex- pe.cted. He is to be the guest of honor on the occasion, and Gov. Hughe·s will also be invited. For the banquet a toast list will be prepaTed which will contain not only the names of dis- tinguished ;:;peakers from our own alumni but also t'he names of other prominent busines and pro- fessional men. In the official announcements of the re-un~ .1n which have lately heen published, the executive committee makes the following statement: \The officers and the executive committee h0p~ to make this th·e most suceessful and enjoyab!P. college jinner of the year and all that i;:; n~ 0 fled is the presence in goodly numbers of their fel- Jow alumni of the several departinents of t'he University and of those conducting the very effi- cient work therein, which we believe is be~ng done.\ MIXED. 'Tis not amisd to kiss a miss, But 'tis a miss to kiss a;niss- As for a miss to kiss a miss- Far more a miss to miss a kiss.-Exchange.

,, :l .... The Concordiensis A Literary and News \Veekly Published l1;v THE S'rUDENTS OF' UNION UNIVEHSl'rY. After a terdl and a :h1alf of college work JUNIO-R the festivities of Junior Week are com- WEEK ing to free the mind from all other activiUes and cast studies for the time Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y ., as into oblivion. For three days the student is ex~ Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, H. G. Van Densen, '10, Phi Delta Theta House. ASSIS'r ANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, T. D. Walser, '10. BUSINESS MANAGER, A. R. Chaffee, '10, 513 Smith St. ASSOCIA'l'E EDITORS, J. BNlkley, '11. W. D. Cavert, '11. REPORTORIAL STAFF, H. T. Case, '13. .J. H. l'ottet, '12. R. P. Patterson, '12 I I. A. Schermerhorn, '12. Football ..... Hn sketball .•• 'l'J'af'k ....... . Baseball ..... y. :\1. C. A .... ; ·'Ill m· Court TPlTace < 'onncil \Insical Clubs < 'oncordiensis 1!111 Garnet .. COLLEGE DIREC'rORY. r\. IIeqnembourg, '10 ........ Captain ~ L. ( II. K. Ilutrhens, '10 ........... ~ianager l ~: ~;n~l::.re,:: : ~~: ·.: ·. : ·. ·. :: :: ·. ·. ~:,~:::',~ 1 \ i 1 1 1 1 l A. IL I>Pnnis, '10 ............... Captain II. H. <trov<'l', '10 .............. Manager II. P. Rtnvnrt, '10 .............. Captain :-;, K. Ily<lP, '10 ................ Manager ~-\I. C':n·Pl't. '10 ............. Pl'esident .T. I I. PottPI', '1:! .............. St'cretm·y T. D. \YalRPI', '10 .............. Pl'esident \Y. D. C:wet·t, '11 .............. St'cretat·;v S. :\I. <'avPrt, '10 .............. PreRident II. II. O.rnrer, 'lO ............. Secretary r;, m. Smith, '10 ............... :\IanagC'J' Glee, 0. A. Faust, '11 ............. LPader :\1a ndolin, ~. \V. Slutter, '10 .... LeadPr II. G. Vnn D01IR0ll, '10 .......... TDditot· .\. IL ChaffPP, '10 .............. Manager J .T. BPnkJp~-. '11. ......... Editor-in-Chief ( T. :\J. Town:4Pll<l. '11 ........• Bus. Mgr. Press Club. • . · -· 1 \ I·~. KJ'iPg:4lllll.ll. '10 .......... President II. :\. Tl·nmlmll, '12 ........... Secretary TERMS: One subscription .................................. ~~.00 Single Copies ...................•............. 10 Cents. Publication Office, Schenectady Evening Star. pe·cted to lay asije h:s ·other pursuits and get his share of social enjoyment. Every live student should take some part in the festivities of the week, for Union n1en are always noted for the energy with which they back every movement worthy of their support. And Junior Week is worthy of 1 hearty support; it is an annual occur·rence; is obi3erved in the ma- jority of otr~er colleges, and is recogn:zed by the faculties of the different institutions who suspend all college wnrk during that time. .In spite of t:his there is a certain class of students who, although they willingly support the athletic tea:;ns anJ other student activ~ties, con- sider that they 'h:ave nei·i::her the time nor the n1oney to spend in the enjoyment of the social functions. vVhile knowing that when an athletic season is a failure the report works tarn1 to the college, they fail to realize that lb e failure or success of the Junior Week festiv:ties will have a great infl11ence on many people not directly con- Pected with the college. For 'how can it be other- wise when so many families of wealth and promi- ence i.n .Schenectady and other cities will be re- presented to them? or course, there is necessarily considerable ex- pense connected with attend:ng the \Pro:;n\ or Soiree, but this year flowers have been abolished anJ expenses have been cut down in other ways as m_uch as possible. The co:nmittees in charge of t'he different dances have made careful pre- paration, and the only thing needed to make them among t:ne mo,st successful dances ever held is the hearty support of the students of every class. Everyone should endeavor to attend at least one of these functions, have his share of enjoyment fro:;:n the annual festivities, anJ help along the suece,ss of a custom which 'has been observed at \Old Union\ for so many years. The \Prom\ is the best ever this ye,ar.

beautifying the Cam-pus was also heartily a.pprov- ed of, .and it is expeeted that the committee will 1'wo New \trustees Elected and Important Matters at once take steps to raise the money. considered. The College Press •Club was recognized by the committee as doing a good work in spreading At the meeting of the trustees whidl:1 \Was held news of \Old Union.\ It was thought &at the at the Albany Medical College on Tuestiay two !llovernent should be financiallY supported and new trustees were elect€d and other important the matter was referreJ to its committee on matters were e,onsidered. The persons who were chosen as truatees to fill the present vacaNcies are Mr. Courtland V. Anable .of New York City a.nJ Mr. Willis T. Hanson of Schenectady. Mr. Anable is .a Union graduate in th.e Class ,of '81 and is at present a prominent lawyer in New York. fir ... ance. The meeting was an ent:b.usia.stic olil.e and was well attended, the only trustees who -were absent being Hon. \iV.arner Miller of Herkimer, Dh.arles E. ,Sprague of ·New York, Thomas Weir of Salt Lake City, ·and Willia~n1 F. H.avermyer of New York, Clark Williams, .State Co1nptroller, an ex- officio member of the Board was also IJresent. It was decided by the Board that there shoulJ be a form.al opening of the new engineering build· icg some time next spring, the date not being settled as yet. Although it is not known whether :1e will come Mr. Carnegie will be invited and urged to .be present. The send:ng out of the invilationt~ was left to Dr. Richmond. Provision was also ·made for the repairing of the part of ·south College recently Jestroyed by fire. The architectural features of the building are to re1nain the same as far as possible. An ar~h ite-::t is ~::oon to be engaged to prepare the COLL.EG·E M·EETING. The meeting was opened by the singing of HAlma Mater,\ and the \Terrace Song.\ Hutct.1.ens led a long yell for Zimmer, who res.ponded bY speaking about the next basketball game to be played in 'Schenectady, with New York Univert~ity on February 5. Potter spoke about the Freshmen remaining in place until ''Al:;na Mater\ was finished. He said that their action in coming down from the gallery Juring the last verse showed lack of college spirit and appreciation of what the song means. Coffin made a moUon, which was voted on and carried, that the use of flowers .during Junior Vv ee :t should be 3J'bo1is1led. Pre:3ident Gavert, speaking of the addresses to be given by D·r. Potter, said that attenJ.ance -was by no means compulsory. The talks were not ar- ranged by the faculty, but were entirely a student affair. As all tests and student activities had been arranged so as not to conflict with the ad- dressea, 8veryone would have a chance to attend. The first so:ree of the year. Don't miss it. plans and have charge of t 1 he work. The q-uestion of a oite for the new \gym\ was discussed blit l~ttle, the trustees having alreadY assured the \gymn'' eommittee that a site will be forthcoming as soon as the funds are raised. The trustees are ;:;till all heartily in favor the DR. POTTER'S MEETINGS. 1For the first three d·ays of this week Dr. Rock- well lHarmon Potter, Union, '95, now of Hartford, .Conn., gave a series of \straight from the shoulder t:.:t1ks\ to the stude11ts. The talks were given as a sort of an introductory course to the L1ay of prayer which occurs to-day. A large num- ber of students took advantage of the opportunity to hear Dr. Potter and were more than re-paid move~nent. The erecting of a memorial for Jo~1n Howard Payne was Jiscussed and met with general ap- prov·al. The committee in ·charge of the move- lnent will now proceed to raise tbe money by popular subscriptions ranging fro:::n $1.00 up. The tnovem.ent of the business men of the city for by attending. Don't miss the \Prom.\

! I ,\ . '· •I • IO SUNDAY VESPERS. THE PRE·S·S C.LUB. Tlie Sunday afternoon vesper service, heLl in A great many fellows in college have no rdea the chapel la.st Sunday, was addresseril by William what ttis organization is or what it does. It Jay Schieffelin, of New York Cit.y, on the subje·ct of ''A Business Man's Religion.\ lin opening his talk Mr. !Schieffelin said that would Clo them good to ,step around to Silliman Hall som·e VV'ednesday evening and hear the re- although hi.:3 subject was \A Business Nan's Re- port.s of committees at the ·meeting. They would 1· gion,\ he prefer·red to talk on the \Business of ~~ ReligioHs Man.'' T-Ie said that during the last few years a numlber of things tad occurred which showeJ that the conscience of the nation is awakening, among which are the insurance in- vestigations, the higiler standards of pol:tics and the passing of the pure food law. In talking of the pure food and drug act, in which he was per- sonally intereste·d, 'he told sornewhat about b~;-! find out that there are about a score of fellows v, ho work hard but silently for the benefit of their Alma Mater. The-se men get little credit for a great leal .of trouble outside of their know- ing that they are doing so:;:nething for \Old Union.\ A new constitution has been drawn up and after being revised, will be adopted. It is thought that election to t'he club will be by competition business, saying that the dru~ firm witlt wJlll'h he in the near future. was now connecte·d had been in exi3·t~nn:) over As usual, the wire committee telegraphs reports 115 years, five generations of the Sch~effeli n fainj- ly having been interesteJ in it. He then went on to speak of the work of th~ Layman's Missionary Mov~ment, with whic~l he j~ connected, considering this one of th3 things that should enter into tile business of a religious man. He said that !f the organization succeeded in giving everybody a chance to hear the gospel in ttis generation, it would meHn our times as much work as is being (lone at present. He also sajd that funds enough for t'he ;novement coult1 be obtained if every 1 Christian would give merely five cents or the prlce of a car fare each week. HAMLIN CONCERT. ·On the evening of February fourth, Geore;e Hamli11, the not cd tenor is to sing in the chapel. This is the second of the series of concerts wt1ic·h Prexy has planned to have take place here dur- ing the winter. The chance to hear such a well known singer is seldom offered to all of us and every one should attend if he possibly can. Stude11ts are g:ven reduced prices. --------- Prof. in Logic :-\What is the universal nega- tive.\ Junior (arousing himself) \Not prepared.\ of games to the As.:;oc'ated Pre-ss which sends the·n1 from coast to coast. Thus all our alumni can see our scores. 'The post card co:nmittee ilas sent basketball schedules to alumni in all plaePs in and about Schenectady. The articles about team.:; seen in newspapers anJ magazines are sent 1-)y the advance work com·1nittee. Prep. school pa1~~rs will be full of \Union\ news. Articles atbout men who ·have made t'heir mar:k here are sent h.~ their respective school papers and papers in two well known New York Prep. scho·')ls have promisee to publish our articles. Bes:des this, special ,,·ork is being done. The calendar committee has li'lt been able to make n report as to the success of ~he College calendars :vet. So·me fellows who subscr:bed have not paid up and it is time that they woke PTJ and got some college spirit in them. We can no~ afford to \go in the hole\ on account of them. HOCKEY TEAM, Owing to the inclemency of the weather hockey practice has been rath€r intennittant. We are certa1n that we 'have here in college material for a most successful team. As yet no captain has !been elected. Manager Walser ha.s arranged a schedule ·of fast games and if the weather permns the team s'boulJ render a good account of itself.

THI~ <J<)NCOl~DIENSlS 11 DEBATING. Union has, this year, entered the intercollegiate competition in another branch:; that of Jeba!ting. Previous to this time there has been very little interest shown in this branch of college activitiea. T''ile arrangements for a triangular debate between Hamilton, Colgate an.!J. Union have, however, aroused considerable interest. Each of the three colleges is to pick two teams of three men and an alternate, and defend both sides of tr~e ques- tion. T 1 he aff.irmative team to represent Union is com.posed of J. H. Potter, T. \iV. Hanig-an, R. M. Bartlett with W. H. Cavert, alternate. Thi::; team will meet the negative team from Colg1te. The Union negative team ~s composed of H. A. Cohen, . \. C. Potter, S. M. Cavert anJ H. G. Coplen, al- . I ternate. Colgate and 'Hamilton also meet each otb.er on the same evening, March fourth. By th :s arrangem.ent e~ach college will h1ve one te1n1 a way and one at home on the evening of Maret fourth. The question for debate is, \Resolved That a F-Taduated income tax should be part of our Feder- The Popular Drug Store Fellows bring their friends to QUINN'S for refreshments when down town. Our Soda Fountain presents a very attrac- tive menu now-a-days. There's- . Hot Chocolates Bouillons Tea Sandwiches Salads lee Cream Coffee Soda AI I are extra good and are served in the characteristic Quinn manner WM. H. QUINN Druggist Vendome Hotel Bldg. State & Centre Sts. Professor i.n physics:-\Have you ever electri- fi<:d a body by squeez~ng?\ The .student blushes and sits down. Dean-''How was Massachusetts inflnencert to al system.\ Union's chances of winning are of join t'he Union '?\ the best and with the time which the te1m has .\II-h-r.-\By persuasion .and a little work ''on to get into sfi,ape the~: should make a 2'0od (:>ffort ~or first choice. PREPARING FOR N. V, U. GAME. During Junior week, on Satur Jay evening, Feb. 5, the Union basketball team will have for its opponents the New York University five. N. Y. U. has a very fast te·am this year and so a verv stiff game i8 promis-ed. ~coach Tilden, ho·wever, is \Vorking hard to put tte Union team in good shape for the struggle. Also great efforts are being made to 'have tbe game turn out a success in every respect. \ verv snappy contest is expected and a large audience will probably be pre::-ent; therefore, those who intend to see the game should purchas-~ their tickets early ;n order to get the best seats. Block :3eats ;nay be o1btaineJ until Feb. 1 from Atkin at the Beta 'Theta Pi House. The Soiree this ye.ar snrpassea all others. the side.\ De::tn-\Mr. M-h-r, .do you think th.at phrase oc- curs in good literature?\ M-h-r. ~'W'hy, yes, nean, I think .:;o. It occurs several time·s in the football rules.\ JUST ACROSS FROM GREEN GATE - =--- +---- - 'I '\'-'-- FINK'S PHARMACY THE COLLEGE SMOKE AND DRUG SHOP

1 I ~ . . J ' ' 1 '' ' 1 I I I ' I l f : I ,I I . , I . : I I 1:2. 'l'HE 0()N0f)l{DIENSIS DR. HOFFMAN AT MEETING Of \Shor·t BallotH Movement-Banquet Held at Hotel Astor. Last Friday night Dr. Hoffman attended a banquet a.t the Hotel Astor held by several promi- nent men who are interested in the so-called ''Short Ballot\ move:;nent, or an atte:mpt to simplify the present method of voting. The gathering was, indeed, a. nota1ble one, being com- pose.J of .suc!l men as Lyman Abbot and Woodrow \Vilson. It is felt that at present the: method of voting is so complicated that no one can vote satis- factorily. The ballot is so large and complicated that the average voter pays little attention to the people runnin~ for the ~ore unimportant offices. In a note·d speech which Woodrow Wilson made at this banquet, he gave it as hi.s deliberate con- viction that our constitution is not equal to the present situation, being formed under the notion t~J.at the government must rise against tyranny. All who were present felt that the two following rhanges, would simpHfy the manner of voting and completely remeJy the present evils. First----Only those office.s should be elected that are important enough to ·CO~mand popular at- tention. Secondly-Very few offices should be elected at one time so as not confuse the voter at tt1e election. This would not be a new or untried plan as it is now in vogue in many of the most prominent European cities noted for their good government. According to this scheme only three or perhaps five o.f the most important officiall3 would be e1ecteJ by the people, and all the other offiees would be filled by appoint;nent by the persons eJected. \Young maid,\ said he, ''I ask of thee 'To fly, to fly, to fly with me.\ \Young man,\ said she' ''n,ow don't you be Too fly, too ·fly, too fly with me.\~Exchange Everyone is going to the \Prom.\ lt·e.rns of Interest Discussed on the Hi II .. During Junior Week a concert is to be given in the High .School ·Auditorium by t:!be Glee Club. -All students and friends of the College are in- vited. This number of the Coucordy i.s issued by Gray,. '11, anJ Cavert, '11. Prof. Hale and his family moved into a house on Brandywine Avenue last week. Coffin has been d:strlbuting ''Prom'\ programs an1ongh the professors. ·I}udley T. Hill, '07, is now editor-in-chief of G1e Evening Star. Several of the students have applied for ap- pointments as censu13 enumerators. It is rumored that Dr. Adams will be asked to resign as pastor of the State Street Methodist Church. Jn that case ·his pulpit will be filleJ by Potter, '12; Faust, '11; and S. M. Cavert, '10. G·eorge W. Roosa, '09, has returned to take a post-graduate cour.se. He has been superinten- dent of a large power plant in B at.avia for the past s:x months. \Baldy' is ·making a specialty of electric illumination and expects to receive the degree of M. E. E. next June. McCullough, 11 ', has been elected 1 eader of the college banjo club. 'T'be Zeta Beta Tau fraternity recently held a s;noker at the Mohawk 'Baths Hotel. Several students from the law and meJicaJ deparbnents attended . She was a pretty sales girl, ·He asked her for a kiss; F'or he was the accepted Of this fair and blushing miss. Sbe gave him one, and as she drew Her rosy lips away, \Is there,\ asked s'he in trembling tones,. \Anything else to-day ?\-:E.xchang-e.

WEEKLY CALENDAR. Jan. 27- 11: 00-1Hay of Prayer. ·Dr . .Erdman of Prince- ton speaker. 5: 00-lVIeeting of Con co rdiensis Board. Jan.- 28- 4: GO-Dramatic CluQ rehearsal. 6: 45-Mandolin ·Club rehearsal. Jan .. 29- 8:00-B•asketball with West Point at West Poiut. Jan. 30- 5: 00___. Vesper service. l\tlr. Henry A. Van Alstyn to speak on engineering as a profession. Jan. 31- 7: 15-Meeting of {be Philomathean Society. Feb. 1- 4: OO-Dramatic Club reliearsal. 7: 30-Senior Class with Dr. Hoffman. 7: oo-Class Bible study meeting. Feb. 2- 4: OODramatic Club rehearsal. 4: 30-Faculty m.eeting. 7: 30-Press Club meeting. 7: 3.0-1M·andolin Clu.b rehearsal. Feb. 3- 1.2: 15--'College closes for Junior vVee1{ feotiv;- ties. ] •_) •J THO·SE EVENING BELLS. Those evening belles! those evening belles! A Sophomore the story tells Into the Freshman's eager ear, Of \mashes\ made in Freshman year. The Frosh with emulation ;;wells Of ''picking up'' those evening belles. Those evening belles! tliose evening belles~ And soon the Frosh his story tells ·Of stolen smile;;, and glances sweet, On a pleasant eve adown State Street, And with what pride the story tells Of \p:cking up\ those evening belles. = Those evening belles! thoEe evening 1Jelles! But soon a different tale be tells.; vVhy do the ladies \cut\ bin• so: He ask.:; a Junior in his woe. The cause tne Junior straightway tens. '·Twas ''picking up\ those evening belles. BETWEEN THE LINES. \Yhen a fellow gets a letter From a maiden, he divines l\'I gny a precious little secret. \Vritten ;n between the lines. -Se1Pct. Funny, too, in Greek and Latin, How we n1eet with like designs: Stran.:·e how n1any happy n1eani11gs Oft are read between the lines.-Exchan~e. An .absent-minded professor was busily engaged ~n solving a scientifk problem.. A servant h.astilY opened ~he door of the laboratory and announced a great farnily event: \L\.. 1 ittle stran?;eT has just arrived.\ \ Freshman once to Hades went \Bh ?\ That somethin?; he might learn; \It is a little boy.\ \A little boy; well ask niln what he wants.\ There's a gladness in her glad11ess When she's glad. There's a sadness in her sadness When s'he's sad. nut the gladness in her gladness, NoT the sadness in her sadne.:~s \Ain't\ a ;narker to her madness, Wl1en she's 1na.d.---lExchange. They sent hiln bacl~ to eartl1 again, He was too green to burn.-Exchange. If an S and I and an 0 an-d U \Vith an X at the end spells su, And an E and a Y and an E spell i, Pray, with is a speller to do? Then, also. if an S ant.l I and .a G And H E D spell side. There's nothing murh left for a spel1er to do, But to go and eo-;.'i11Uit siouxeyesiglled.-Adapted.

I .i '' ' I i ', :. t .I Now L{eadr! Glee Club and Football Pictures Also Artistic Frames WHITE, The Photographer PH 1 LIP T. HILL, College Repren,sentative INTERCOLLEGIAT:E INDOOR SHOOTING LEAGUE. Wc.ASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 24.-The National Rifle Association of America announces the results of the second series of matches of the Inter-col- leg·iate Indoor Rifle Shooting League ·on the home ranges of the colleges and universities last Thurs- day night under the supervision of Army officers detailed for this purpose, who telegraphed the results to the home offlce of the National Rifle Association. The University of Iowa defeated the Washington State College, by 57 points, the Iowa team making the record score to date of 1809. Oolumbia University defeated Cornell by 25 points; the George Washington University of Wlashington, D. C., buried their opponents, the Delaware College, by 192 points. University of Idaho defeated University of Louisiana by 228 points. As the scores of the University of Nevada h::tve not been received, their matches with the U. S. College of Veterinary Surgeons and the University of Louisiana cannot be announced. 'Tbe scores in the match are as follows: Univer- sity of Iowa, 1809; vVashington State College, 1752; Colum hi a University, 1727; George Washing. ton University, 1729; Cornell University, 1712; U. S. College of Veterinary Surgeons, W1ashington, D. C., 1614; Dehware College 1537; University of Louisiana, 1489; University of Idaho, 1717. The standing of the teams in the League to date are: University of Iowa ................. . Columbia University ................ . Gornel] University ................... . George Wiashington Univei~si ty ........ . VV!ashington State College ............ . University of Idaho : ................ . United States College of Veterinary Sur- geons ........................... . University of Nevada ................ . Del a ware College .................... . University of Louisiana .............. . Won. 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 0 0 L::J.st. 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 2 2 The shoottng is being done at 5·0 feet, using the Government .22 caliber rifle. The Executive Com- mittee of the N;ational Rifle Association, of Amer- ica announce·s that the week ending Mlarch 2;6 has been fixed as the date for shooti11g the In tercol- legiate Championship Ind·oor M!atch for 1910. \tAJieu she said sweetly ·as he kissed h.er good night. \He's adieu'd, ain't he?\ called out her little brother as he vanished upstairs. The best music-the laughter of an innocent child. The best telegraphy-flashing ·a ray of sunshine in a gloomy heart. The best biography-the life that writes charity in the largest letters. HAN A NS $6.0 0 PATTON & HALL To- Young Men of Taste Are you inter- ested in real fine shoes. CLASSY in appearance and none better for WEAR See our THE ~~l~ $4.00 \Unions HeadqLiarters · for Styles •• '

THE CONCOltDIEN~l8 Watch this space for the an nou nee men t of .BABBITT & CO. AlBANY :: NEW YORK The 4 ' Ara-N otch\ :makes the '&Belmont\ an ROW COLLAR Sit Perfectly f.5c,2for 25c. Cluett, Peabody 8r Co. 1\1akers ARROW CUFFS 25 cents a. p tir P·ass W ord--Psehoor Brau Therringer Bratt Wurst with Sauer- kraut or Potato Salad 1: NlCHOLAUS Picture Framing--- Did she give you her Photograph? Frame It I THE GLEASON BOOK CO. Catering to Ladies and Children Weber and Rush, Proprietors and Managers Charles T. Taylor, Resident Manager matin~~ Ev~ry Day Cban~in~ Pro~ram ID0n(fay and Thursday WITH Bi~ Extrava~anza c~mpanv PRICES-Matinee ro cents and 25 cents Night, r 5 cents to 50 cents All College News Always nn The, Gazette Datly Matinee for Ladies and Children, ro cents, reserved any part of the house SEATS NOW ON SALE ~

THE C(JNCOl{lJll~::\~'1~ WHEN IN THE MARKET FOR FLORAL ARRANGEMENTS Decoration of Any D·escrip- tions, Choice Plants or Season- a hle Cut Flowers, an order place·d direct with will receive every attention afforded by our unexcelled facilities for catering to the most exacting taste High Grade Casket Blankets and Shower Bouquets a Specialty Greenhouse!\ and Nur~eries: L. D. Pere 1413 N Y C A d St f St Town 0f Florida a·1d H 1ffman, N.Y. Homt> 425 • • • rca C, a .e '. --------------· You Can SEE The Real Oak Leather In REGAL SHOES -Through the ''Window of the Sole'' There • s a little circular slip of paper pasted on the sole of every Regal Shoe. By lifting up this \Window of the Sole .. you can see the white, Live-Oak-tanned leather underneath-the finest sole leather in the world. The cheap, red, Hemlock- tanned leather in other shoes is blackened over to hide its tell-tale color. Hemlock leather is brittle and stiff, but Regal Live-Oak-tanned leather is flexible and wears like iron. If you want honest sole leather-if you want shoes that will last-get Regal Shoes at our exclusive Regal agency. $350 $400 and $500 271 .3tate Ji:r~et A Smrrrt Regal l!Ioaet ' For the best things to eat we go to the Crown Hotel Opp. N. Y: C. D:epot Wal1 and Liberty Sts., SCHENECTADY G. A. CASSIDY CO. Pianos, Musical Merchandise Sheet Music Player Pianos ~tl~~etoa~~treets, SCHENECTADY The Mohawk Hotel and Baths Accommodations for Ladies High Class European Hotel and Bath House WOODS & MEEHAN Props. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Rooms : $1.00 to $4.00. Elegant Turk- ish, Russian and Plain Baths A Lorge Swimming Pool. Fir:ot Class Restaurant in Connection. Sample Rooms. A Shave? Yes. The Right Place to get it is at McFee's Barber Shop 456 State Street Just OJJp. Jay St. Ceo. B. Cavanagh 314 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Opposite Wall Street

rrHE CONCOl{])lENSlS 1 ,... ' Tbt St~rlin\J Jlrt Sbop Orpb~um Tbtatrt Wants every Union man to call and see their line of f. X. Br~vmav~r • • Pictures, Calendars,. Cards and Christmas Novelties Schenectady's Refined Amu.sement Palace High Class Vaudeville and Moving Pictures Never mind whether you wish to buyor not, we'll be glad to see you. Gr~at~st Sb~ID Ev~r ·Off~r~d a.t Popular Pric.~s • • One Block East of Central Station Large, Bright Sample Rooms W. & L. E. GURLEY L. D. Tel. in Every Room. THE \NEW VENDOME'' TROY, N.Y. AMERICAN PLAN Civil and Mining Engineers' and Land Surveyors' Instruments Also Scientific Books FIRST CLASS IN EVERY PARTICULA.R NEWLY FURNISHED, RENOV A 'TED and ENLARGED- All Outside Rooms WM. J. GEASON $3. so and up Manager. SchenectadY, N. Y. Send for Catalogues a r zen Snappy Styles For Young Men I T~e cJtJST WRIGHT ShoE We make a specialty of Men's Shoes-especially YouNG MEN'S SHoEs-and no whe e will you find such an array of exclusive styles as we are showing. In our Fall Display you will find a great variety of Heavy Tans, made in all the new shapes, with the new Butter Fly Tip, Wing Tip and the Straight Tip, also a long line of Pat. Colts and Gun Metals for Evening Dress wear ; in fact, everything in the line of Shoes you'll find here, made in styles to please the young men of fashion. Exclusive styles is our hobby; styles you' 11 find in no other store. Convince yourself by a look at our display windows. Prices from $3 .oo to $7 .oo. HUBER'S, 457 State St; 1

L : I c, ' :• ' ' 'l'HE CONCOI{DIENSIS A. R. Zt.ta's• Orchestra furnished music at Union Col- I e g e 190 5, ' 06, ' 07 , '08 , '09 BEST DANCE MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. 3071-W Only the Best Sn-'l,ice. No Better for Concert Office and Res.: 3 Yz Plain St., Albany, N. Y. For the latest music and good things to eat after the theater or dance, we always go to Glenn's Cafe, Grill and Restaurant For Ladies and Gentlemen 422 State Street, Schenectady, New York Next Door to Waiting Room Finest Cuisine J.\;1 etropolitan Service SANDERS The Oldest Optical Est~ blishmen r in Eastern New York Prescription Work Our Specialty 233 State Street, Schenectady, New York TILLY THE BARBER. We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade TILLY l\11 ay be you know us and our manner of doing things. May be you have heard of \rfhe Schenectady Clothing Co.\ , (Gibson, Walton & Hagadorn, Edison Hotel BuildiNg) Clothes, and their excellent quality. We are traveling companions spreading the gospel of serviceable and smart clothes for College Men The Empire Laundry WOOD u HEDEEN Proprietors Phones 557 21 Jay Street , Wood Bros .... Men's Outfitters Mallory's Cravenette Hats Fowne's & Adler's Kid Gloves Sole A~ent~ for Star Hats 265 State St. CHARLES LIMMER Florist 321 State Street Both Phones

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 STUDENTS We Want Your Banking Business The Schenectady Trust Colnpany 318-320 State St. Home Phone II9I H. R. Phone r764~W Compliments of H. S. W:EEKS Artistic Decorator-Dealer in Paints, Brushes, Oils Glass, Wall. Paper, Wood Mantles, Etc. Job Work Neatly Done 106 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N'. Y • • GOODMAN Cater~r and Delicatessen fAerves and fbells @v~r :~fifty Vari€ties of f6andwich~s 107 3ay Street JBoth 'IPhonea ''Stearns-Foster'' $10 Coti&D Felt Mattress They measure almost up tfJ the $15 Standar..d / If you wish something that is sanitary, comfortable, altogether good and quite unusual in its quality and make up, you will not be disappointed in these mattresses. A. BROWN & SON CO. 302-304 State Street Eye Glasses { FIT~t~rREn Goggles, Opera Glasses, Field Glasses Binoculars and Reading Glasses Amber, Smoked, Blue and White Glasses of all kinds L. F. NICKLAS 169 JAY STREET Leadin,.g Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line of ARROW Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear WHOLESALE AND RETAIL Both Phones, z4z L. W. DEVENPECK Successor to Barhyte & Devenpeck COAL AND MASON SUPPLIES Office, 306 UNION STREET, Schenectady, N. Y. Some students work because they have to;. some because they think they ought to; some because they like to. In any case it is easier if they lead the \·ELECTRIC LIFE\ SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING COMPANY COLLEGE and SOCIETY PRINTING BEN V. SMITH, Optometrist I The Evening Star 50 North Pearl Street ALBANY, Nr Y. Job Department \AS YOU LIKE IT\ 162 Jay Street Both Phones 206

h H •tl . e ·. 1 Copyrr_g11i: HJC9 by Hart Schaffner & Mar .. .. ... Hart, Schaffner &Marx Suits are deservedly popular. We sell them. In offering Hart, Schaffner & Marx Suits to you fellows on the hill, we believe that we are showing you the best College Fellows Clothes made. With every bit of style and go to them that it's possible to put into clothes, they are still not \freaks\ any they 'certainly do stand up and wear. Inquire a little about them and see if the fellows don~t all say so. and H. S. & M. Overcoats are popular too. 24G-242 S'\fATE ST. THE COLLEGE CLOTHIER

