I :rdJJ I . I !( t I i I I ' I' I I I i. 1 i: l f f 1 r- r I I ,I =· ·~;::;;:;;+jfj ~· fiFdA ; ;;; ZjG+77~ IF~· :e::<::a:z;u~.~ . :: . = m ~ ·b==== ::z (4!]. ~ .=:::: a ::ttl~~ =- JTHE [::; .• :: ·; ; ~:: '~I . =U:=====;;~=-===--====•~•=•-~=~a~.--\·= .. ~=· =-=·--·===·=-=--~=n==·=-=•n=~-==============--===== _,. - i a•· •l;ib!Ubl ===~ • za.: VOL. 35. JUNE 15, 1912$ . •. . rr .=:: : .. __ ,:, .. : !il m: :: ::z· ; = i1 u;= 4 :. ·~ill [if:;;; ! : . ====w £iF====' :.:=-::g . . l!t:::::: ;:; :=:::::: : . :: ;m. f!b:: : : :: . ;::::;;,::;,:: . :::::::m I!!: == - : .. ) !!1 ~:!!:;:.:::;: :;: :::;:::;:;:-~ f!:::=:=;: . ·= ::::m ,.,,. ' I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 'ill~ ~ I I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ill~ ~ 1 11 8 0 ~ 0 0 § ~~ I o I . l I I jl . 11 ~ !l i lr 1 ! . I ! I ~,. ! I I! II II i ~ I ' ! : I . l il I II I ! li.·l p I I I I . I ; l . I ll I I I I I . I . 0 8 I I' -~0. j' 'I . ~:~ I I . 0 I r.: 0~ f 0~ ,:, '\\:\C~ l gil : ' ~(\).~ , 11 if2'l ·i 1 ·' 1 1fq 1 ,i 8 I · gn · .. ~ , g.~ . li' rrs·il : 1:' ~, i ~·:1· ' ; ~~~ !l -~~_,:. r.J' ·i :.!} I ,~.!1 :i Ill ii[:1i I ~! ~~~Ji ; : g g I j 1 g I g I : g I I I 8 1 1 l; : 8 I. , 1 ll ! g l!l I II , I , . I. . ' ' , ' .I r . : : I \ ' ' g I ! 8 I I g . I . 8 I g ' ! 8 I I I g I I ]l! ! 1 ~11. ~~I I ' it¥~' . . w ~~ I I lt?il 1~1 : I 1 • oL ! , o 1 ! 1 ° oJlJ 8 o c 3r]l I I .. oJ· 11]~~1 II ~I~ 1 1 lljll

' 1 l I I .1 I I I ' I I UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. , Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and : lt'aduate courses: 1. Couraea leadin~ to the detrM of A. B. CLASSICAL COURSE A.···Greek is required for admis .. sion to this course. French and German are included in addition to the ancient languages .. CLASSICAL COURSE B.·u·This course may be pursued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admis· aion to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and is required for four years. 2.. Courae leadin• to tile de1ree of Ph. B. LATIN·SCIBNTIPIC COURSB··~Tbis course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted additional · work in modern lan2ltages and science. 3. Courae leadin, to the. dearee .of B. S .. SciENTIFIC CoURSE··· This course is based upon the study of mathematics ud the sciences. 4. C01.1rae leadiq to the de,ree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING COURSE,•o· This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, com· prising mathematics, the sciences, the fundamental principles of the $pecial branches of the profession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SIX YEAR PH. B.·B. E. CoURSE.···This course com· · hines the above four-year engineering course with the Latin-scientific course. SANITARY ENGINEERING COURSE ..... This differs from the aeneral engineering course ·in substituting apecial work in sanitary engineering for some of the aeneral engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERIN~ COURSE.··· This course is intended to aive a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. s. Couraea leadiaa to graduate dearee•. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.··· This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING T.O DEGREE OF M. E. E.··· This ·course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Sometime every person needs cash at once If you are ready with a deposit • tn Tile Schenectady Savings Bank· Cor. STATE &: CLINTON There will be no regret on that account Redmond's Coffee 'COlrR.SE LEADING TO DEGREE. of PH. D.··-This course of ,tw(l years of graduate ·study req1:1~ires for adtnissio~ the degree .of M. E. B. or an equivalent .. Fo.t ·catalogues or other information addresa F. C. BARNES, Seeretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE---Instruction by lee· tures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work. practical demomstrations and operations. HosJ>ital and laboratory advantages excellent. · Ca1a1Qgues and circulars containing full information., sent -om application to: . ,.·f I, WILLIS G. TucKER. M. D., ~-~&istrar, ,./Albany, N.Y. --- DEPARTM:ENrT·f~)F lAw AMASA J. PARKER. ·: J. NEWTON FIBR.O, ·_. President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL·· .. This department ()f the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occ11pies a building wholly devot~d to its use. The :course: leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each rear is divided into two semesters. ExJ)enses: Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee. $110. For ca.1alogue or other information, address: ]OHN J. HUGilES, Registrar, Abany, N.Y. D.EPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY··· Graded course of instruction comprising two terma of seven montn~, each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full Information,. address: THEODORE J. BRADLEY, PH. G., Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. Gunning, '1_4 Successor to Minuse, '12 BANNERS Pho11e 466- J Down to date College Clothes are made by S. S. S. Co. Central Arcade, Oppoaite ... • American Expreaa Co.

s course hnission r. l by lee· ~rae ti-cal tt. . mation. ,. •• :Jto, : Dean. : ()f the capitol. ~. The e years; ~e. $110. , . ' ~ Graded f seven !S! ..,, ~, N.Y. S. Co. aite Co. T' I IE C ( H\ C < >l\ DIE I'\ S I~ .l Zita' s Orchestra furnished music at l'ni()Jl College 1~)()[}, '()(). ·oT. 'OH. 'O~l. ·10. '] L BEST DANCE MUSIC IN THE WORLD H. R. Phone 3071-W Only the Best Service. None Bdt-<..•r for Conet·rt Office and Res. ·: 167 Hamilton St., JL\lbany. CLOTHES OF QUALITY and with a guarantee ''THE PRODUCTION OF THE ROYAL TAILORS\ See ad in all the leading national magazines ROYAL ~r AILORING CO. 1 7 1 Clinton Street 4P7THlll2 •·rrzm ll 1 ' ... 'ftW·WS~'HIE HW T !I w au ?ftbtlliliiP A Rl~ GO.JD THINGS TO EAT AND DRINK AT c A WHELAN & co GOODMAN'S HOFBRAU HOUSE · e ., · ~ Imported and Domestic Delicatessen Jay Street, Opposite Post Office BOTH 'PHONES -~-~-azmt-lR-dO _____ CA--kl---ll __ U_F_JI~-~-~-----·--=------~~ Just Wright Shoes $4 Approved English Models Spring 1912 ln Hussia C.dl ;mel Calfskin: H.t·ct·ding !'nt•, Broad Sh<lllk anll.ow !{ ·el Lfft·c·t. Disn1111inatmg nwn .tpp!'t' ·t.tk t ht· t•xc luo..:i\'t'llt'ss and cli~nilit><l dtdl at·tt·t t•xprt·sst·cl 111 all l)tll ..;!tot·-. GEISSLER & R.Y AN 1 7 3 J a}.,. Street Cigar Stores 301 and 433 State Street Dl'awing Inks j Eternal Writing Ink HIGGINS ' \Engr·ossing Ink . Taurint• Mucilagt.• Photo Mountel' Past~<\ . Drawing Board Pa!lt.t· { Liquid Paste Offict> Paste I V t>gdablt> Glut.·, t·h . Are the Finest and Best Inks and Adhesives Adht·s•ves. If, .. \. \,.111 .... ,1•·,,1 .. AT DEALERS CHAS.. M. HIGGINS &. CO& Manufadun·rs Br<~ncht·s Chicat:o, l.ondon 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. A ...... W ----= -·---il&U .... ZWU\\\\iEJ-Z --l!£2_¥< ..... _§t&;_l¢ __ z;;: ___ l ---If ....... ---8A'iU-\MW-i'IIOIIJ .... IWW WJ&;; -· I & t: W'lbl'

3 A R ·. · .. · z·-· ·t ' Q· 'h t furnished music at Union College ·· .• . • 11 a s ·· · rc .. es· · ra 19os, '06, '07, ·'os, '09, 'Io, '11. BEST DAN:CE M'U.SIC IN THE WORLD ~~~ t~ 0 B:s~~~!~\fce. None.Better for Concert Office and Res. : 167 Ha~milton .;S·t., Albany. CLOTHES OF QUALITY an:d with a guarantee \THE PRODUCTION OF THE ROYAL TAILORS\ See ad in aU the Ieading national magazines ROYAL TAILORING ~co. 17 1 'Clinton Street GO~D THINGS TO EAT AND DRINK A'T GOODMAN:'S HOFBRA·U H0 1 USE Imported and Domestic Delicatessen Jay Street, Opposite Post Office BOTH 'PHONES Just Wright Shoes $4 $5 Approved English Models Spring 1912 In Russia Calf and Calfskin: Receding Toe, Broad Shank an:l Low Heel Effect. Discriminating men appre:.iate the exclusiveness and dignified character expressed in all our shoes GEIS:SLER & RYAN 1 7 3 Jay Street C. A. ~AN & CO. Cigar Stores 301 and 433 Sta.te Street . Drawing Inks :Eternal Writing Ink HIGGINS ' 'Engrossing Ink . i aurine Mucilage · Photo Mounter Paste · · (~~~!!:::ard Paste \Vegetable Glue, etc. Are the Finest and Best Inks .and Adhesives Emancipate yourself from corrosive and ill-smelling inks and adhesives and adopt the Higgi11s' Inks and Adhesives. They will he a revela- tion to you., ·they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS &. CO. Manufacturers Branches Chic~go, London 271 Ninth St. 'Brooklyn, N. Y.

J ,, ... 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS KEELiER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway and Maiden Lane ALBANY, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY --- 250 Rooms ---- LADIES RESTAURANT ATTACHED .. SPECIAL NEW RATHSKELLER .. Bowling AHey and Billiard Room Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms ---- -- WM. H. KEELER, Prop., Annex, 507-509 Broadway The Policies Issued By The Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company Are .conceded by competitors to be superior to all others MAY WE SEND YOU A SPECIMEN POLICY FOR YOUR INSPECTION Van Voast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE lLLUMlNATlNG HUlLDING, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ...... . Clothing - - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Caverly TROY LYON 's The Store With Over · · 1 00,000 Prescriptions A~:~s HUYLER'S Bon Bons and Choc- olates Kodaks, Premos and all Photo Supplies LYONS', Corner State and Centre HURLEY $5.00 SH·OES Hurley Shoes and Oxfords foF Spring gives you an assortm:ent of High c,~ade Shoes, such as yol!t have never seen be- fore in Schenectady. We are show,ing a large assortment in Tans, Gun Mteta!: and French Calf. Made on the new F:l'at Tee low hee'l style, also the medium high~ 'Toe. If it's right you'll find it in the Hurley line. HURD BOOT SHOP 273 State St. BARNEY'S Where Everybody Shc:>ps C]f Students will find that they h a v e ,every- thing at-- BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. 80HEN£CTA1JY'8 GREATE8T ~TORE

• t i r ! \ { l l f ' l I ' I j I ! . ! : THE ;OONCORDIENSIS 5 THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N. Y. FIREPROOF .. EUROPEAN PLAN __._, ...... _ __......._ Or,chestral and Auxetophone Concerts d\Uring dinner and after the .play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to~6 o'clock FRED'K W. ROCKWELl. THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. ¥., a , new fireproof Hotel, opened Aug. 1, 1910, under the .same management ~ Schenectady Clothing Co. SPRIN<G HATS STIFF AND SOFT Our complete Hn:e of hats comprising the most si:ghtly and: fashi(}nable styles ·Of the season is worthy of i:taspection. See the new stitched brimmed grey, browR, blue and leather shades. Sixteen c0lors and twelve shapes. Rough fin- ished soft hats of cotuse. GUYER STETSON Dress Furnishings .are a specialty with us. Plaited or stiff lbosom shirts-· correct collars- fi.es and gloves. See our silk hats at $6.00 and the silk opera at $7.00~ ~ Schenedady Clothing Co. 3l3-315 S7ATE :STREET Telephone Connection Always t;he bes·t things to,eal at the CRO~WN HOTEL JAMES COF.FEY, Prop. THE NEW-HES-MOR PRINTING :CO .• , 420-422 State St. BOOK BINDING For College Students QUALITY- ACCURACY : We make a specialty of biading MSS. and periodicals of every description. Get our prices EXPERT WORKMANSHIP PRQM:PT SERVICE COES & YOUNG COMPANY College Shoes 2:0 SCHOOL ST. Rep. C .. W. CLEWLEY I cordially invite you to call to inspect my NEW IMPORTATIONS OF Suitings and Fancy Over coating Stock New and Nobby G:EORGE A. MANNY, - T A!ILOR 70 JAY ST. SCHENECT AD'Y\ N. Y. BO.STON, MASS. MONTHLY VISITS Cigars---Ice Creant---Soda TOILET ARTICLES St. Regis Pharmacy 2 0 0 UN :£0 N STREET Prescriptions Accurately Compounded

6 THE CONCORDIENSIS Wallace Craftsman Fumiture for Sludent's Comfort T HE design <;>f .this F.urniture is exc.eption;:tllJ good: 'Thec~!lirs are upJ:wl~tered in real Spantsh Leather. Many fitted wtth luxunou.s cusf.uons. The pnces, you will note by comparison, are less than you will be askied to pay elsewhere for Furniture of indifferent quality fJf Mission chairs uphoTstered in real Spc-nish Leather;. $5.75 to ·$25.00 fJf Mission study tables (ten styl·es) in Solid Oak; $5.25' to $25.00 fJf Mission and Golden Oak book-cases; $4.25 to $35.04} 'fJf Waxed Oak mission finished flat top desks; $14.50upward ~ The Wallace Co. Schenectady's Distinctive Store ~ \The College Photographer'' WHITE, 229 'State· Street NEAR BARNEY'S TO PROVIDE FOR YOUR PLEASURES GA!RNEl' 1903 1904 1905 1'906 1'907 1'908 1909 1910 1911 1912 The pleasure is all ours. Sports of all sorts n JW draw us aU into the open. For the glad- sotne call of the great outdoors is ringing in our ears. We are ]>:repared with ioads of Summer. fixings to aid .you in putting up a good front In a cl1ss by themsel-ves-Our shirts in neat striped effects or plain colors, patch breast pocket, turn ba:k soft cuffs. Some with cellars to match. Cut roomy, colors fa t, $1.50 to $3.50. Underwear for Summer comfort, B. V. D. in union suits or separate garments, lisle, nainsook, gauze, madras, etc .. quite a few styles from 50c to $1.50. Should we get our heads together on a straw hat. Panamas, Sennits, Milans and Mackinaws in all shapes $2.0D and up. JOSEPH NUSBAUM 336 STATE STREET Easy to put on a~d take off ARROW SHIRTS Fit perfectly and are color fast. $1.50 and $2.00 Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers, Troy, :N.Y. GAZETTE BUILDING :TILLY THE BARBER WE ARE THE FAVORED AMON·G TH'E COLLEGE BOYS AND SOLICIT YOUR TRADE TILLY I

: ( I I I I ( I Th C ' d' ,., ., . ·e ·•· oncor. •1ens1s l VOL. 35. JUNE l5, 1912 No. 27 Garnet Triumphs in One Sided Contest and Plays Substitutes After Game is Safe. Han1Bton, after winning frcm Union on its hon1e grounds was given a big surprise on the campus Memorial Day. The Garnet nine star~t€d after the scalp of the Clinton boys in the very first inning and piled up three runs. 'The second inning was merely a repetition of the first and iour more tal- lies were annexed to the score. Union Changes Pitchers Twice After the third inning O'Keefe could not stand the strain on his lame arm and was obliged to allow Dunn to do the twirling. Dunn pitched 1or three innings during which ti~me Hamilton managed to secure one run, and then Smith tool< a turn in the box. Hamilton Scores This change gave the visitors just a faint hope for they managed to get off several hits, and these together with some errors on Union's part, netted them three runs at the close of the .game. The score: Erhart, lb Watkins, rf Miller, c D. Root, p, rf Ogden, p Totals Shaw, 2b Giddings, 2b, cf O'Keefe, p, rf Biche, 1b Naumann, ss Fairbairn, 2b Dunn, rf, p Dennis, lf Hutchens, c Barclay, rf Hill, ss Beaver, cf Smith, p Tasker, lf Gilbert, c 1 0 1 1 0 4 UNION 1 1 1 0 0 5 r h 2 1 4 1 1 2 3 3 3 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 9 0 0 24 po 2 2 0 9 2 1 0 1 6 0 0 1 0 0 3 l 0 2 6 5 18 a 0 2 5 1 3 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 l 0 0 9 e 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Totals 14 9 27 19 4 Hamilton 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3- 4 Union 3 4 0 4 0 3 0 0 *-14 Stolen bases_._ Shaw, Gidding, :(4); Biche, C. Root, 3b Hallock, ss Royce, lf Turnbull, cf Knox, 21) HAMILTON r h 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 po 4 0 1 -o 4 a 1 2 1 0 0 (2); Naumann, (4); Dunn, Hutchens, C. Root, e Hallock, Royce, Erhart, Ogden. Sacrifice 5 hits-Giddings, Biche, Fairbairn, {2). Two 1 base hits-O'Keefe, C. Root. Three base 1 hits-O'Keeie. Hits off Dunn, 1 in 3 in- 0 nings; off Smith, 4 in 3 innings; off D. Root, 0 8 in 5 innings; off Ogden, 1 in 4 innings.

I I I ,,; 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS Struck out-By !O'Keefe, 3; by Dunn, 3; by Smith, 2; by Root, 4; by Ogden, 4. Base on balls-· By O'Keefe, 1; by Dunn, 1; by Smith, 2; by D. Root, 2; by ·Ogden, 1. Hit by pitched ball-Hutchens by Root. Passed balls-. Gilbert. Umpire-· James Glenn. Union Wins From Rutgers In Season's Fastes~t Game Garnet Takes Revenge on New Brunswick Team in Ciose Contest by Score 4-3 After avenging themselves on Hamilton to their full satisfaction the Union nine pro- ceeded to act in the same manner toward the New Jersey team for its recent victory over the Garnet. Snappy Game The game was without doubt the swift- est played on the campus this season. It was a pitcher's battle in which Dunn had a slight advantage although Dennis pitched winning ball. Tasker played an except- ional game in left field making three double plays and having five put outs to his credit· In the eighth inning he saved the score from being tied by returning the ball home with such a deadly aim that Leeds was killed at the plate. Other Individual Playing Naumann at short played phenomenal ball gathering in everything that came his way without making an error. Besides lining out two singles he made a double play in the sixth that pulled the team out of a bad hole. As a matter of fact, the whole team played gilt edged ball and were on their toes all the while. H11tchens was especially alert for any Rutgers player who attempted to steal second. The Jersey team also played a top notch game. Leeds, Bowen and Dennis were deserving of mention. Rutgers' Home Run In the third inning Schenck picked out a :goocl bali and sent it sailing into [!eft field. Before the sphere conJd be returned he had made a circuit and soored Rutgers: first run. The second tally came in the fouTth after Bowen hit safely for two bases. H.: reached third on Twig's out and scored on Oennis' liner to Dunn. Rutgers strove hard in the ninth but could add only one mo'Je run to their score. Fortunate Fifth and Eighflr In the fifth Union sent out fou:r singles and annexed three tallies to their side of the board. In the eighth Giddings singled and scored on Biche' s pretty three bagger to center field. The score: Leeds, ss Howlett, cf Bowen, c Ewing, 1b Baller, 3b Dennis, p Gladding, 2b Schenck, rf Chase, rf Milliken, lf Total Shaw, 3b Giddings, cf O'Keefe, rf Biche, lb Naumann, ss Tasker, If Fairbairn, 2b Dunn,p Hutchens, c Total Rutgers Union RUTGERS r 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 h 0 1 1 1 1 2 0 1 0 1 8 UNION r 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 4 h 1 2 0 2 2 1 0 2 0 10 Score by innings: po 4 4 2 11 0 1 1 0 0 1 24 a 3 0 3 0 3 4 2 0 0 0 15 po a 2 0 1 0 1 0 8 0 5 5 5 3 2 0 0 4 3 3 27 15 e 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 e 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 1 0 0 ·~ 0 1--3 0 0 0 0 3 0 () 1 x-4 Stolen bases-Rowlett, Giddings, Tasker. Sacrifice hit-Dennis. Two base hits-Mowen, D~;~n11. Three base hit-Biche. Home run-Schenck. D.()uble plays -Tasker to Fairbairn (2), Naumann, unas:sisted; Tas- ker to Hutchens. Struck out-By Dunn 2; by Dennis 2. Base on balls--Off Dunn 2. Wild pttch--Dunn. Umpire-Glenn.

out had fter the to eof e 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 e 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 1-3 x-4 Tas- l l ' ~ I I I I ~ I THE CONCORDIENSIS· 9 Union Drops :Ga·me to :Colgate by 8-5 Score Garnet Loses Contest Through Poor Work of Infield, After Outplaying Colgate in Every Way Union lost a game that should have been another victory added to her string. The work with the willow, on the ba:ses and on the mound went far ahead of that of tbe visitors but the infield played a loose garne. Changing of Twirlers Perin did good work for his team during the first four innings. In the :fifth be weakened, allowing one double and 'four singles. In the sixth inning after Union had started off with a single, McLauglltin was quickly ushered into Perin's place in the box. He proved a puzzle to the Union nine and prevented any further score. Colgate's Scores Dunn pitched a splendid game and surely deserved a victory. Only five hits were made from his offerings. Three of these occurred in the sixth and two in the eigh.th. Colgate piled up four tallies in the sixth and one in the eighth. The three runs scored in the fourth were not quite earned as they were made possible by three errors on Union's part. The Garnet Inning In the fifth Union had everything her own way and batted the ball everywhere, keep- ing the fielders continually on the jump. After the merry-go-round netting five runs had slowed down it seemed that Union had a fair lead. But the sixth proved very unfortunate and before Union could recover herself Colgate had crossed the plate four times jumping into the lead by two runs. After adding another run in the eighth, the visitors had too big a lead for the Garnet nine to overcome and the game ended 8-5 in their favor. Star Work Hammond on third base, Johnson at short and Jones at first did the spectacular work for Colgate while Hutchens and Dunn played the best gatne for the home tean1. The score: ·McLaughlin, if, p Robinson, c Perin, p, 1f K~ingston, 2b Hammond, 3b fones, lb fohnson, ss Platt, cf Adams, rf Totals Shaw, 3b Giddings, cf O'Keefe, rf Biche, 1b Naumann, ss Dunn, p Fairbairn, 2b Dennis, If ·Hutchens, c :~Barclay Totals Colgate Onion COLGATE r h 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 1 1 8 1 0 0 1 1 0 2 5 UNION r 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 5 h 1 1 1 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 7 Score by innings: po 1 6 1 l 1 15 1 1 0 24 po 1 2 0 10 2 0 1 2 9 0 27 a 4 2 2 1 6 5 0 () 20 a 3 () () () 4 8 3 () 0 0 18 e 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 e 4 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 8 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 1 0--8 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0--5 Stolen bases, Robinson 3, Kingston 2, Jones 2, John- son 2, Shank 2, Giddings, Naumann, Dunn, 2, Dennis, Hutchins. Sacrifice hit, Jones. Two- base hits, Perin, Dennis. Double play, Naumann to Biche. Hits, off Perin 6 in 5 innings, off McLaughlin 1 in 4 innings, off Dunn 5 in 9 innings. Struck out, by Dunn 1, by Perin 1, by McLaughlin 3. Basa on balls, by Dunn 5, by Perin 2, by McLaughlin 0. Hit by pitched ball, Perin, McLaughlin, Dennis. Umpire, Glenn. Attendance 500.

I . I 10 ·THE CONCORDIENSIS Un:ion 7, Stevens 4 Hoboken Boys Fall Victims to Garnet Nine ]n Stow Game By a rather one sided contest Union brought her season to a successful close. The game although lacking snap for the most part was marked by splendid base stealing and clever fielding. Shaw, Biche and Giddings ~anded successfuliy on second several times ahead of the ball by speedy stealing, and Biche was within a foot of home p1ate in the first inning when Nau · mann tried to bunt but fouled instead. Great Fielding Dennis did the star work of the day in fielding. In the eighth inning when there were two out and the bases full Stevens sent a long fly out into left. It was at a conside~able distance from the fielder but Dennis started after it at top speed and by extending his arms full length he barely squeezed the sphere and robbed Stevens of two or three runs. Home Run Dunn was not in his usual form on the mound but retaliated for this by his fine work at the bat. In the fourth inning he gave the ball a ride over the left fielder's head and took his time making a circuit of the bases. Although it wasn't a hard game Union was pleased to capture it since Stevens was over confident after defeating among other teams both Columbia and R. P. I. The score: STEVENS r h po a e Hawthorne, c 0 1 2 1 0 Jaeggle, 3b 1 3 1 3 1 Landsell, ss 0 0 0 0 0 Van Benschoten, p 1 1 1 6 0 White, lh 0 0 11 0 2 Van Ordn, cf 2 2 4 0 1 Buesser, lf 0 1 2 0 0 Buell, 2b 0 1 1 1 0 Wiley, rf 0 0 2 0 0 Total 4 9 24 11 4 Shaw, 3b Gtddings,. cf O'Keefe, rf Biche, lb Naumann, ss Dunn,p Fairbairn, 2b Dennis, If .Hutchens, c Total Stevens Union UNION r h 1 l 0 0 1 0 1 l g 0 2 I 1 1 1 1 0 0 7 5 Score by innings: 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 3 po a e 0 s ·O 0 '0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 ., 0 2 0 1 4 0 0 13 2 0 27 9 1 2 0 0 1 0-4 0 0 0 0 x--7 Stolen bases, 1 aeggle, Shaw 2, Biche, Dunn, Fair- bairn, Denni5. Sacrifice hits, Giddings, Hutchens. Two buse hit, Biche. Three base hits, Jaeggle 2, Van Ben- schoten. Home run, Dunn. Struck out, by Dunn 11; by V .an Benschoten 2. Base on balls, off Dunn 8; off Van Benschoten 1. Passed balls, Hutchens 2. Time, 2:20. Umpire, Glenn. Attendance, 1,000. ~ Union 13, Alumni 12 Old Grads Pull Off a Few Tricks on Stu- dents But Fail to Get Away With the Game It is quite possible that if the alumni team had been in training they would have re- peated their performance of last year. As it was they put the varsity in confusion several· times and only lost by a small mar- . gin. Smith was touched up rather hard in the third inning when seven hits were made netting seven runs. Base Stealing Tommy Bergen, the varsity coach, stole home in a most clever fashion and Hagar who was on second stole third. The varsity was bewildered by this sudden trick and before they had recovered Hagar had crossed home plate also. Fortunately the team took a brace after this inning and evened up matters with the grads before the end of the seventh. The alumni lined up as follows: Griswold c; Bergen p, 2b; Dunn p, rf; Osborne 1 b; Goff 2b, rf; Perry ss; Grout 3b; Paige If; Hagar cf. • I

e ·O 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 11; off me, re- As ole c; cf. , I THE ·CONCORDIENSIS 11 Dr. Richmond Delivers Baccalaureate Sermon The annual baccalaureate sermon was delivered before the graduating class on Sunday ~morning in the First Presbyterian Church. The Rev .. W. B. 'Taylor began the services with a prayer, Dr. F. W. Adams read the scripture and Rev. E. R. Stevenson lead in prayer. President Richmond then spoke to the senior class. His sermon text was: ''And the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.\ He pointed out the many possessions of the college man which he should possess, show- ing that so many people have possessions which they do not really make their own. To illustrate: \When our forefathers came to this land, they found a few hundred thousand naked savages roaming the forests and plains, hunting, fishing, fighting; that is about all they knew. The land was theirs, but they had not possessed it, and all the centuries of their ownership had brought them no nearer to a real possession of the black riches of the mines which were destined to feed the furnaces of industry, and warm the homes of a great people they did not know. Of the iron and copper, the gold and silver hid in the sides of the moun- tains, of wealth of the woods and the still more abundant wealth of the rolling prairies and the fertile vaHeys, the wealth of corn and wheat and golden fruit, they did not even dream. And then a stronger race came and the weaker race was driven out-with n1uch cruelty and injustice, no doubt, but inevitably, and following out a great law of God; and a nation of 90,000,000 has settled upon the land that once was his, and the end is not yet. There is still much land to possess, more mines to be opened, more fields to be cultivated; more of nature's savage stronghoid to be subdued; more deserts and marshlands to 9e re- deemed, more resources of earth and water and air to be developed, before we really possess our possessions. But this is not all; the development of materia[ resources would be a kind of brute ambition after all. Possessions is a word that has become vul- garized until it means only something that can be bought with money. When we speak of man's God~given heritage we mean, of course, something infinitely higher and more precious-··· possessions of the mind and spirit, beauty, truth, science, art, literature, poetry, music; and after these the graces and virtues of the heart-love, peace, purity, faith, gentleness, humanity; these are our heritage, our land of promise. Have we gone in yet to possess it ? Only the fringes of it! We have hardly crossed the Jordan. '·'Our rich men hang beautiful pictures on their walls, they tell us how much they cost, but the real title of possession is in · the man who has the eye to see their beauty -not in the rich owner who cannot see it. So with the libraries-an ancient scholar refers to a rich collector of books as 'The owner of that tanyard which he calls his library.' Rows upon rows of sumptuously bound books do not constitute the real pos- session of a library; it is the man who reads them who possesses them, not the man who owns them but does not read them . \I once heard a man say of a college graduate, who had brought little out of his university life, that he was 'one of those who had been exposed to education but had never taken it.' There are many such who have been exposed to learning, and art, and culture, and also to the spiritual in- fluences of life, to religion, to goodness and truth and holiness, but who have never taken it. \I want to set before you tonight a vision of the wonderful heritage vvith which God has endowed us. 1 here before us it stretches a land flowing with milk and honey, all the fruits of the spirit hang there upon the trees of that blessed country; 'love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, good-

I ,, i , ·I , I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS ness, faith, ·meekness, temperance;' it isour land, ours, the field of beauty, the mines of truth, the rivers of plenty, the inspiring airs, the fragrance of the lilies, the glories of the landscape, the divine rights of celes- tial citizenship, these are all our God-given possessions only waiting for us to go in to possess them. In conclusion Dr. Richmond laid his final charge before the class. It was as fol- lows: ''Gentlemen of the graduating class: We can not come to this moment without a feeling of unusual interest. You are here all together for the last time as a class; you will come back from time to time, come as often as you can, but you will not all be here, and soon it will happen to you, as it has to other classes, you will begin to mark off the names of those whom the inevitable roll call of the years will take from you, who at this moment rise before you. We have done our best to make you ready for it. How much the faculty has been able to teach you~ the Lord only knows; we have at least required an irreducible minimum; but the test of life will soon reveal, not so much what you know as what you are. What we have tried to do is to help you find yourself, to command your own powers, and to possess your own possessions. We have tried to show you the beauty of your inheritance, and to make you feel that it is worth fighting for. Let me say this last word to you, for it is my last chance, and I would fain say something to help you. \Do not be content with easy victories. The highest possessions are not won with- out wounds and hard toil. You will be sur- rounded at once by an atmosphere that seems selfish and commercial; remember this is only the surface of life, beneath all this there are aspirations, desires, struggles after truth and justice and holiness; and in the nobler sort of men you will find that these possessions of the mind and the spirit are the things that they long for the most and fight the hardest to obtain. My deep- est wish for you is, that you may be of this kind; that you may not only come into your own inheritance but that under :God you may have the joy and the privilege of lead- ing other men into theirs. As you go from us you leave only the kindest of memories. As a class, you have helped us in our efforts to build up the intellectual and moral life of the college, and we confidently believe that as you take your respective places in the world, you will reflect honor upon your Alma Mater and add to her prestige.\ Alumni Vesper Service The vesper service under the Nott Elm was lead by the Rev. Irving Peake Johnson '87 and was a welcome addition to the regu- lar commencement program. As the meet- ing proved so successful it will probably be included in the commencement vveek plans hereafter. Senior Ball The Senior ball last Wednesday evening was a magnificent success in every way. It was held at the Mohawk Golf CJ;ub. The hall was beautifully decorated with long streamers stretching from the chandeliers to the walls. The gallery, where the or- chestra was stationed, was trin1med with green and white flowers and was twisted with long ropes of green. Zita\s orchestra furnished the music. A delicious supper of salad, ice cream, coffee and cake vvas served after which the men assembled on the ball rootn floor and sang Union songs and cheered. Every one present was deeply indebted to the class of 1912 for this delightful dance and spoke highly of everything connected with it. I !

. life . ln be . or- the I I i I ! THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 La Barron 'Track Cap:ta,in The track team has chosen Robert La Barron as its captain for next year. \Bob~' Robert LaBarron has been doing splendid work in every meet and is deserving of the honor which the team unanimously awarded him. ~ Tiedeman Elected Member Of Publication Board Walter Tiedeman was elected by his classn1.ates as junior representRtive on the College Publication Board. Walter Tiedeman At the closing meeting of the board the officers for next year were selected and the result was: D. R. Finley, President, R. N,. Riedinger, Treasurer, W. V. Tiedeman, Secretary, Dr. Barnes, Auditor. Pageant Increases Gymnasium Fund to $'65,000 One of the most attractive and delightful entertainments ev,er given in Schenectady was the pageant tltat was held on fke col- lege grounds 1ast week. It brought out strikingly the imp()rtant facts of the history of Schenectady sin<Je its founding tvvo hun- dred and fifty years ago. The early Indian settle1nents and the massacre of the first Dutch settlers v-J~ere vividly portrayed. Hiawatha's order,s were given in a most distinct manner that was very pleasing to an audience in tbe open. The sam€ may be said of the solo sung by Mrs. Adams. Indeed every featare showed splendid train- . Ing. Arendt Van CuTter, who took h.is part most cleverly was always warmly ap- plauded as he entered, walking in the peculiar Dutch fashion. \Johnny\ :Bennett performed his duties as Dr. Nott to the en- tire satisfaction o£ everyone and that is no small statement f()r the audience were an- ticipating the acti1ng of a Grecian and act- ing worthy of the Greek stage. Young Miss Robertson danced the Scotch sword dance like a professional and Mr. Ledgerword's Scotch reel was well :eKecuted to the appropriate strains of Mr. Wilson's bag pipes. In fact the e11tire periormance ran smoothly and n.eld the interest of the spectators right through the grand review. The orchestra ptayed especially well and the college band did its extensive work in creditable fashioN. The audiences were large at eY€ry per- formance, especially on Saturday evening, due to the pleasant weather, bu-t .even on Friday evening wh.en the air was chilly and disagreeable, a large number turned out. Although the -pageant was a marked suc- cess in nearly every respect the amount added to the gymnasium fund was not so large as was hoped for because of the con- siderable expense of producing the per- formance.

i I I ·I I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS The Concordiensis A Literary and News Week!ly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY Enter~d .at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N.Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF ' Frederick S. Harris, '13, Delta Phi House. ASSIST ANT EDITOR-IN~CHIEF, Alexander G. Duane, '13, Sigmi Phi Place. News and Athletic Departments. LITERARY EDITOR, Van Rensselaer Tremper, '13, Alpha Delta Phi House. BUSINESS MANAGER, Grover A. Woodard, '12, Phi Gamma Delta House. ASSOCIATE 'EDITORS. E. L. Baker, '14 H. H. Hitchcock, 14 John Kreusi, '14 REPORTORIAL STAFF. W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15; R. L. Duane, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15 E. R. Hughes, '15; ]. H. Vought, '15; R. A. Orr, '15 Publication Office The New-Hes-Mor Printing Co., Schenectady Railway Waiting Room Building, 420 State Street AN IDEAL COMMENCEMENT which would send them back to their various professions with refreshed interest in their particular line of work and perhaps with even a deeper love for the old college. T O say that the Commencement this year was a success would hardly express theconditionofaffairsthathasexistedduring the past week. Thelastfewdayshave brought the college year to a most pleasant close and should make the seniors feel happy and fortunate to be graduated from an institu- tion which is so dear to its many loyal sons. Union's alumni, young and old, came back to have instilled in them the memories of long ago, to meet with fellow classmates whom they had not seen in years and to re. cei ve a new supply of the true Union spirit This commencement week which has been the crowning success to the year's work is most significant inasmuch as it has indicated what real love pervades the grad- uate and undergraduate body and inas- much as it has made clear that Union is on the firmest financial basis in her lengthy history. The alumni dinner was a thorough succ€ss as well as the parade in which the classes vied with one another to present the best appearance. The program was es-

. on es- THE CONCORDIENSlS 15. pecially elaborate and seemed to have been carried out with more enthusiasm than has ~ever been witnessed in the past. [t appears that the whole college, but most of ail the graduate council, has been striving to bring about this ideal com- mencement. The city papers have most :kin:d~y showed their interest and supported €very plan, and all these forces working to- gether for good have made the 116th com- mencement a record one. ~ UNION UNIVERS 1 ITY AT ALBANY P ,. ERHAPS we owe something of an : ' apology to our ~eaders for the editorial which appeared in the issue of two weeks' ago. The article discussed the advisability of establishing Union University at Albany. Since that editorial was published, many criticisms of it have been voiced and as a num:ber of them, though not all, have disap- proved the plan, we gladly drop the question. ]t seems that such a plan occurred to several of our very notable alumni and leaders some time ago and was found im- practicable at that time. Possible it is just as impossible now, and if this be the case let no more be said of it. The article how- ever, was not intended as a stab, or to be sensational, but merely as a suggestion. If such a scheme as a removal is ever to be again advanced at Union now is probably the last time it could ever attract notice when the Albany departments are all seek- ing new homes, when there is a danger of a state institution at Albany, and before the new gymnasiutn is eretted on the campus. Doubtless this subj,ect should have been taken up as a piece of correspondence to THE CONCORDIENSIS rather than as an editorial, for this was really its true nature. The editorial viewed the matter from an Albany point of view and this was clearly stated for it read \]et us [ook at the prGpo- siHon as the Aibany men see it.\ For this reason the editors personally refuse to re- ceive aU the censure that the article has evoked. We may admit that the suggest- ion was misplaced but we deny that it was written from any disloyalty on our part or from a desire to stir up trouble, rather we merely offered a suggestion with the hope of its being of some benefit to our Alma Mater. When we are accured otherwise it makes us feel that our purpose has been wrongfully interpreted. In conclusion, we asked far opinions on the subject under dis- cussion, not for criticisms of our character which were so freely forthcoming. But if our hasty friends who misunderstood us have given vent to ther indignation and if their wrath has abated completely we are content and will rest in hope that no such trouble will ever spring up in the future. u NEXT YEAR,S CONCORDIEN'SIS W . · .· E should like to take this opportunity of informing our readers that on page twenty-five of the present issue will be found a subscription blank for next year's CONCORDIENSIS. We hope you will fill this out and mail it to the business manager. The board intends to make some de- cided improvements in the publication next term especially in regard to the cover and the type, and by these :together with minor changes for the better we expect to turn out a paper that will be both newsy and interesting.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS Alu;mni Parade acted as grand marshal. The paraders marched up Union Street and to the cam- '0ne of the most successful features of pus through :the Payne Gate. They ha1ted Commencement Week was the annual in front of South Colonade, the various alumni parade. 1909 carried off the honors ''captains'' advanced, saluted and returned Class of 1872 for originality, by introducing a camel, to their places, and the parade then passed which signified that it was \The class with in review. Two hours later the paraders the hump on.\ Ten classes participated in formed in line again and marched to the Class of lf g7 the parade. It formed at the First Presby- Armory through Nott Terrace, vvith the terian Church. Rev. C. A. Conant, '60, in senior class leading and the College and the absence of CoL John V. R. Hoff, '71, Troy bands playing. In front of the Ar-

nd I ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 mory they halted in the form of an arch, throu~h which President Richmond, the Class of '72, with 17 men in line. Class of '81, with 13 men in line, wearing Class of 1892 faculty and the alumni, passed into the building. The formation was as follows: caps and. gowns of white, with lilac trim- . m1ngs. Class of '82, with 16 men in line. Class of 1909 -Winner of Cup for best appearance

,, I 18 · THE CONCORDIENSIS Class of '87, with 19 men, wearing caps and -gowns of garnet, with gold trimmings. Class of '92, with 11 men in line, in civil- ian clothes and straw hats, playing zobos and carrying a large banner. Class of '97, with 12 men in line, wearing caps and gowns of garnet and white. Class of '99, with seven men in line, dressed in civilian clothes. Class of '02, with 18 men, dressed in man- a'- wars men's suits. Class of '07, with 13 men in line, wearing sailors' hats and a garnet band over the shoulder. Class of '09, preceded by a camel on which rode two classmen, and led by an- other, and followed by about 40, dressed in the eastern garb of the Arab, with faces reddened with paint. The cuts of this parade were obtained for THE CONCORDIENSIS through the courtesy of the Schenectady Gazette. 'Events of Tuesday Waldron Tablet After the alumni parade, the annual meeting of the General Alumni Association was held in the College Chapel at noon. At this meeting, a tablet to Cornelius Augus- tus Waldron '48, was unveiled. Judge C. C. Lester of Saratoga dedicated the tablet. Mr. Waldron attended sixty-one out of sixty-three commencements and was one of the most loyal and faithful alumni which the college had. After the dedication of the tablet, elections were held to chose an alumni trustee to succeed Harwood Dudley of Johnstown. Mr. Dudley was re-elected. Alumni Dinner The alumni dinner took place at 12:30 and was one of the most successful ever held. It not only excelled in numbers but in the unusual enthusiasm displayed. Never before have so many alumni gathered at commencement to renew their college spirit and to become boys again.if.only for the one day. During the dinner,,. the younger classes kept up a continual succession of novel stunts varying from the ''Turkey Trot'' to the camel which was the pride of '09. A more than abundant dinner had been prepared by the ladies of Schenectady and it was served by underclassmen who acted as waiters. The college band assisted by a band from Troy made things lively enough for the most enthusiastic alumni by playing college songs and popular music while the dinner was in progress. At the conclusion of the feasting, several speeches were made. Dr. Silas B. Brownell who pre- sided at the dinner first presented the Cor- nelius Waldron ~Cup to the Class of 1887, complimenting them upon their admirable showing. Dr. Louis A. Coffin '82, made the one address for the alumni, the old custom of an reunion classes having speakers, be- ing abolished. At the close of Dr. Coffin's address, President Richmond announced a gift of $15,000 toward the gymnasium fund. Frank Bailey '85, treasurer of the college, spoke briefly upon the excellent financial standing of the college at the present time. He urged upon the alumni the necessity of their support saying that success was as- sured but would be attained much easier if the alumni were all backing the college. President Richmond was the last speaker and gave a most excellent address in which he spoke at some length upon \college spirit\. He termed it a \beautifully foolish\ thing. He then went on to show what col- lege spirit does to help the college. At the conclusion of \Prexy's\ address, everyone adjourned to the Hill to see the Union- Stevens baseball game. In a rather slow game, Union defeated Stevens by a 7-4 score. Campus Celebration In the evening, the big campus cele- bration took place, this was an innovation but met with undreamed of success. The campus was crowded with alumni, students and visitors. Arc lights were strung around I I I

the ger t of key ~ of had ady vho 1ted rely . nn1 . lSlC the hes Jre- \\ .-or- ~87, lble the om be- in's :1 a nd. ~ge, :ial ne. of as- ~ if ge. {er ich ~ge :;h\ :ol- the >ne on- ow 7-4 ~le- . lOll 'he tltS . nd THE CON·CORDIENSIS 19 the bleachers and made the baseball diamond as bright as day. Thedomeofthe library was set with light and in the peak was one very large light which capped the whole in a very neat way. For over two hours, th~ campus rang with the the yells of the students, the answering yells of the various classes, the music of the band and the rattte and crash of fireworks. Over three thousand people were present and the celebration was a most successful affair. At first the men contented themselves with '''yelling up\ the different alumni classes but it remained for the sophomores to start things going by getting a hay wagon from behind the electrical laboratory and bringing it to the campus, to give the seniors a free ride around the diamond. This started the fun and from then till the end, the campus was filled with a per- fect medley of sounds. About 10:30 the crowd began to disp2rse, after a long yell for the baseball team and the singing Alma Mater in a way to make one's heart glad. Seldom has Alma Mater been sung with such vigor, fevor and enthusiasm as was manifest that night. After the celebration the alumni scat- tered to the various fra.ternity houses where smokers were held. Thus ended the most successful and complete Alumni Day in the history of Union. It was indeed a proof of the long, hard work of several men who did so much to make it possible. The One Hundred and Sixteenth Commencement The graduation exercises were held as usual in the First Presbyterian Church but more enthusiasm than customary was in evidence. The class of 1912 was the lar- gest since the Civil War. After the strains of Zita's orchestra had died away the exercises began with the singing of the 117th psalm. Dr. Richmond led in prayer and then the ho11or men spoke as follows: \The Aristocracy of Intellect\ Edward F. Hennelly of Johnstown. \Individual Liberty\ Robert P. Patterson of Glens Falls. ''Ethics and Politics'', James H. Potter of Amsterdam. \The New Opportunity of the Srnall Col- lege\ Kenneth E. Walser of Cohoes . V aledictory-\The Progress of Science\ Chauncey H. Winters of RichmondviBe. The theses in Engineering which were not delivered were: \Proposed Power Development on the East Farmington River, ·Conn.\ Walter S . Easterly of Gloversville. \A Study of Magnetism\ Leon L. Biche of Black River. \The Transient Phenomena Occurring Upon Changing a Transformer'', Ralph P. Clarke, Schenectady. \The Transient Phenomena Produced by the Propagation of An Impulse Over a Transmission Line\ Harry F. Coward of Buffalo. \The Transient Phenomena Produced by the Propagation of An Impulse Over a Transmission Line\ Robert E. Dennis of Kalamazoo, Mich. The honorary chancellor's address on \The Value of Local History\ was delivered in a forceful manner by William Milligan Sloane, Ph. D., LL. D., professor of history in Columbia University. Prof. Sloane's talk was scholarly, pertinent and vivid. He in- sisted that a study of local history is es- sential to the highest education. He noted that a longing for learning, a local patriot- ism and a local pride were conducive to a thorough study of local history. In con- clusion the professor said: It is just as refreshing to travel in time as in spact:', to penetrate and imagin= the past or visualize the future in invigorating, upbJilding, compulsion of power. Immanuel Kant never was without the suburb of his native provincial town, yet he inthralled hi3 crowded audiences with his descripti Jns of the world . Schiller never saw the Alp3, yet his play of W~llian1

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS Tell is a guide to their mysteries. The ,eyes of Coler- idge never rested on Mt. Blanc, and not to prolong the catalogue the most vivi,d and accurate delineation of American life to which I ever listened were from the lips of Taine, who knew us not by bodily~ but spiritual sense. The n1akers of the nineteenth century history, to mention only Bismark and Cavour, were parochial in their character and attachments. To be inteRsely local, Scott, Pommeranian or Piedmontese seems to be prerequisite to larger gra3p and bolder achievements. We may do3e therefore after such considerations with Prof. William Milligan Sloane the reasonable assurance that the stu iy of local his- tory, the cultivation of local stars, the passion for our places, our parish, our town is essential to the highest education, that without it no good work can be done in history and that ~Ath it the care for '[OOd work will produce without labor and travel the personalities of the student. Behind and within the product will be an irrepressible power which will stand the test, which will make the heart to bleed or exult, or both by turns. The graduates then had their degrees conferred upon them. In additi()n the hon- orary degree of LL. D. was conferred upon Prof William M. Sloane and upon John Van Rensselaer Hoff, M. D. The honorary de- gree of D. D. was conferred upon Rev. Francis Van Vtanken '58, Rev. Irving Peake Johnson '87, Rev. George Harkness'62, Wil- liam A. W adell\ 82. The degree of L. H. D. was conferred'on William J. Kline '72, the degree of A. M. upon Theodore J. Bradley and the degree of Litt. D. upon Cornelius E. Franklin '83. The prizes were awarded at the close of the honorary chancellor's speech as follows: Warner prize, to Chauncey H. Winters ·of Richmondville; Ingham prize, to Allan B. Mann; Alleu prizes, to James H. Potter, Ralph DeP. Clarke and Kenneth Walser; oratorical prizes, sophomore,, to Arthur Loeb and Morgan L. Williams;· junior, to Don Hutchens and Robert La Barron; Good- rich-Duane prizes, to Theodore W. Hanigan and Roy W. Peters; Allison-Foote prizes, to the Philomathean Debating Society and Roy W. Peters; the Blatchford oratorical medals, to Kenneth Walser and James hL Potter; the Daggett prize, to }atnes H. Potter; Pull- man prizes, to Chauncey Winters and Rob- ert Dennis; Baggerley prizes, to Robert Patterson and Kenneth Walser; R. C. Alex- ander prize scholarship, to Donald Coulter; Silliman scholarship, to Raymond S. Blod- gett; Daniel Vedder .scholarship, to Austin G. Martin; Porter memorial scholarships, to Robert Patterson, A. D. Mann and Roy W. Peters; Spier memorial scholarship, to Allan B. Mar:.n. Special Honors In English-Robert Morris Palmer. In French-Kenneth E. Walser, Chaun- cey H. Winters. In History and Government.,...-Allan B. Mann, Robert P. Patterson. In Latin-Robert P. PattersJn, Chauncey H. Winters. In Mathematics-Chauncey H. Winters. In Philosophy-James A. Barkley, Allan B. Mann, Arthur D. Mann, John M. Min- use, James H. Potter, Kenneth E. Walser. Fill out Subscription Blank on page 25.

D. E. of to to ' er; ob- ert ex- od- , to w. B. ' Class Day Exercises And Other Attractions of Monday Monday afternoon. June 1Oth, at 2:30, Class Day exercises were held under the old elm in Jackson's garden. Several hun- dred spectators attended. The garden was ·. RALPH DEP. CLARKE Marshal at its best, making a delightful background for the crowd of friends and relatives of the seniors. The seniors marched to the old Nott Elm . ' i ROY W: PETERS Historian . . I ., ..f•·t- 1 21 Roy W. Peters gave the class history, :Blaine R. Butler delivered the pipe oration, ·Fr-ank Sellnow read the Ivy Oration of Ray- mond D. Shepard who -vvas ill, Henry A. Schermerhorn, prophesied the future of his classmates and James H. Potter delivered the classdbration. .. BLAIN~ R. BUTLER Pipe Orator Later in the afterno6n came the frater- nity teas of Kappa Alph~i~iPsi Upsilon, Del- ta Upsilon and Beta Thet~i-Pi. In the evening the Omnibus Dinner was MARTIN E. UNTERMEYER Class Prophet while singing, and after the orchestra had played a selection. Ralph de P. Clarke, class tnartial, intro.duced President Webb who welcomed the visitors. ji,.J. held at the New Vendome Hotel, for u~ose classes not having any other reunion funct- ions. About seventy-five alumni were present, atnong then1 being son1e old glee •f r

22 THE' C'ONCORDIENSIS club men, who added much to the singing Seven Men Elected Member~ of the old college and class songs. This · Of Phi Beta Kappa omnibus dinner is a new feature of com- JAMES HENRY POTTER Class Orator mencement but its future is secu~e from its success this time. The classes of '78, '84, '87, '92, '97, '02, '07 HENRY A. SCHERMERHORN Class Poet held reunion dinners at various places in town. On Monday evening also \\Vas held the Extemporaneous Prize Debate, in the First Presbyterian Church. ~ Fill out subscription blank on page 25 for next year's Concordy and mail to business manager. The number of men with high averages was exceptionally large this year and so more keys were awarded than usual. Those Prof. John I. Bennett honored were Chauncey H. Winters, Rob- ert P. Patterson, James H. Potter, Edward F. Hennelly and Kenneth E. Walser. Rev. ~ 1 Prof. Olin H. Landreth James H. Robinson '59 and Walter D. Cavert '11 were also elected to membership. At the meeting of Phi Beta Kappa Tues~ day morning the election of officers took place with the following result: Dr. John I.

pa ~es so )Se ~v. D. P. ~s~ )k I. THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 Bennett, president; Dr.. Alexander G. Duane, vice\\president; Dr. E. C. Lawrence, correspondin~ secretary; Dr. M. C. Stewart, liecorc}ing secretary; Mr. R. j. Landon, t~easurer. The Sigm!a Xi elections resulted as fol- lows: Prof Olin H. Landreth, president; Prof. Howard Opdyke, vice-president, Prof. C. F. Garis, treasurer; Mr. Morland King, re .. cording secretary. Steefel. Bros .. ALBAN~Y C:OME. HERE FOR YOUR SUMMER CLOTHES No ·matter where your summer plans take you, we're ready for the clothes end of it. Norfolk suits, Flannel trousers, white shoes, socks and belts, silk shirts, :Panamas and straws. Tennis clothes, Motoring clothes, Yachting· and Fishing clothes. Everything a man wears. Established 27 Years : Prof. Olin· H. Ferguson has: presented his resignation to the Board of Trustees as he has been offered a professorship in his Al~ ma Mater, the University of Nebraska. -----: 0 :---- The directors of a large irrigation project in the·state of Washington, together with the capitalists who contemplate inv,esting in the enterprise, have engaged Professor Landreth to investigate the techJtical and the financial soundness of the project. -Just Received Spring Styles- French-Shriner-Urner Shoes LINDSAY BRO·S. CO. SUCCESSORS TO QUIRIS SHOE STORE 311 STATE ST. Amsterdam - . - Scltenectady The New-Hes-Mor Printing Co. Printing That is Up-To-The-Minute. Manufacturers of Rubber Stamps.

' I! 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS Just Across From . • . Green Gate ... FINK'S The College Smoke--- • • • and Dru,g ,Shop . . . Pharmacy Sen:ior Banquet On Saturday evening, June eighth, the senior class of 1912, again demonstrated its ever apparent tendency for things unique. This occasion was the Senior Ban- quet. It will long be remembered by those fortunate ones present. About thirty-five seniors journeyed to Albany and went directly to Keeler's Hotel. If you possessed a ticket to that banquet hall, you might well have said, \The world is tnine and all that is therein.\ Need- Introduce Yourself to our \Coi~Iege Style\ clothes so much desired by dapper young men. We show many colors, fabrics and models entirely new to your city- original garments brnught on for the young men who like their clothes a little \diffe:rent.\ Suits and Overcoats $12 to $40. Hats and Furnishings. Albany',s Best Clothiers South Pearl and Beaver Sts. The Dolan Company l<tss to say the delicacies prepared from Keeler's cullinary joke book were exquisite. Nor were the banqueters unmindful of Bacchus for they poured many libations at his shrine. But this was not all. A skit was acted with so much reality that the banquet nearly came to an unhappy concffiusion. A great surprise awaited those present, for just before the toasts the unique part of this banquet came. It was in the form of a cabaret entertaintnent. Coming as unex- pectedly as it did it added much to the joy- THE LATEST Russet, Dull and Patents; blind eyelets; English last, with the new toe. The :finest leathers, $4.00 a pair at the store of ·Quality. PATTON & HALL'S \Sure Fitters\ BELOW THE BRID·GE

-· :e--- ••• -- rom 'ite. of s at :ted lUet ~nt, tof of Lex- . lOY- ~ts; oe. . a1r VISIT OUR VICTOR PARLOR THE CONCORDIENSIS We Solicit Your Patronage You need our Guarantee CLUET~T & SONS One Price Piano House 508 STAiE S'fREET SCHENECTADY, N.Y. 25 STEINWAY WEBER AND PIANOLA PIANOS fulness of the evening: Next came the toasts, and such toasts! years and has done good work every season. This spring his work In center field has This occasion developed eloquence which had never been heard of before. The speakers were: Philip Hill, Frank Sellnow, Doran Brown, Thomas Fairbairn, Ned Fairbairn '07, Rob- ert Clark '09, Robert Lowrie, Alexander Leamon, William O'Loughlin, Mr. Dunig.an of the Knickerbocker Press. Henry Schermerhorn as toastmaster de- serves much credit for this part of the en- t t . t \Q f . \ er a1nmen , · · uorum pars magna u1t. 0 :Giddings Chosen Baseball Captai:n Paul Giddings '13, was unanimousiy elected to direct the baseball team next season. He has played on the team three PAUL GIDDINGS been exceptionally commendable and his batting average very high. Mr. Giddings is a member of the Pyramid Club. JOHN B. HAGADORN HATTER, FURRIER, FURNISHER 509 STATE STREET (Uluminating Bl'dg.) Dun'lap Hats, Stetson Hats, Mallory Hats, Hagadorn Special The largest and most complete line of Good Hats, Good Gloves, Earl & Wilson Shirts, Arrow Shirts, Arrow Collars Red Man Collars, Dress Ties and Dress Gloves to be found in the city N.Y. Phone-2100 W Home 1490 ............. ._ ...................................................................... . • • • • • • ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • • • • • • • • • • • • • THE CONCORDIENSIS D. R. FINLEY, ~ Manager. SCHENECTADY, N. Y PSI UPSILON HOUSE ••-<·191 I hereby subscribe for THE CONCORDIENSIS for the Col year 1912 ... 13, for which I agree to pay the Manager One and 50/ Dollars if paid before November 1st, 1912, and Two Dollars if not 1 before 'November ;J st, 1912 . Signed ..... ....... ........... ... ..... .. ..... . ... . . ...... .

26 THE CONCORDIENSIS AUTOS ~ntt ~ft££t ~araB£ AUTOS FOR : F:OR ! HIRE Phone H. R. 817, C.. E~ Spaulding H. R. 466-J, S. 8. Story ! HIRE ; ---- ,, --- ~----------------~--~---~ L. W. KILLEEN ...... ~_,, ......... - -------- --·11;~-----llllilllllill--~--- FINE ''The Sportillg Goods Briar C '' State :a.nd 'Green Sts. · orn·er AlbanJ, N:. Y. 435 State St. Cor. Jay. --------~~~~rr-- Woo~oo oo~oo~ [!' -- '!] First of all---ReliabHity then Service and then Price. Greatly apprec:iate the business Union College has given it and will endeavor in every way to merit a continuance. With such goods as A. BROWN & SON CO .. iiJ 00~000 IT) Crisp, brown oysters or chops, ham or bacon just as you like them and without waste of time is what the Radiant Electric Grill means to YOU Broils, boils, toasts and fries Right in Your Own Room Ask for it at the Schenectady Illuminating Com- pany or your nearest electrical dealer General Electric Company Principal Office • Sch~~~ady 3425 \Spaldings\ and other leading makes \Quality\ will be our slogan and we aim to sup- ply the best in every- thing at moderate . pr1ces. · Charles H. Turaer .Co. 48 & 50 State Street, :Cor. Gr~en .. Albany, N. ¥. \ ) J ~ Van Curler Opera House ... .J ··-·- C. G. McDO,NALD Mgr . P:1ones 335

5 THE CONCORDIENSIS 27 Class Photographs ARE A \HOBBY\ ===WITH THE=== Wendell Studio 15 NORTH PEARL ST. Albany, N. Y. Phone for an A p p o i n t m e n t H. R. Phone 982-J LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. EVELEIGH OPTOMETRIST Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted 426 State Street SchenectadY:,, :I'Q', Y. ~ . -·~--· .... -- .. ~ .... ~··- ... ···~--·-.··- .. -,. .. , Come in and Browse Around THES I. A t' :Sh ter 1ng r: ~ ! :op The Picture The Frame The Wall Paper for your room is here . . .. WM. A CARY, Prop. 212 State Street Schenectady, :N.Y. HOLTZMANN'S Norfolk (oats The Store o Quality -Custom Clothes- We have Tailored Clothes for the Sons of Old Union for the past 42 years. Mr. A. Z. Cary, our de- Ridi11-g BreecJi~IJ Dinner signer, has done college Everr:.in{J Suits work for the leading col- Cloth~s lege trade in this country. We Invite Your Inspection Suits $35 to $75 HOLTZMANN'S

28 THE CONCORDIENSIS A. G .• SPALDING & BROS .. HEADQUARTERS FO,R ·OFFICIAL ATHLETIC SUPPLIES CATALOGUE FREE A. G. SPALDI'NG & BROS., 126-8 NASSAU STHEET~- NEW YORK --29-33 WEST 42nd STREET. SCH:EN:ECT ADY'S LEADING RESTAURANT ~:---------------------........_-[t1· ~GLENN'S 42.2 STATE ST. Next to WAITING ROOM. - ------------------------ ---\\--1 I PICTURES '' ; s. E. ST ANES' and ·PICTURE FRAMING • · j. No. 7 New York Central A.RT ·· i SUPPLIES • i and GOLD GILDING Colonnade New York Telephone DECORA TING and PAPER . HANGING HOUSE and SIGN PAINTING SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Union Boys, 1: ,, The best paper for your correspondence is CRANES' LIN E.N LAWN· :! We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal, Garnet and Gold The Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The 'Gleason Bo·ok Co. .: VENDOME BUILDING The largest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri- vate Parties only, in connection with house - - - - - - · 321 State Street Both Phones THE NEW-HES-MOR PRINTING ·CQ.IEngravedandEmbossedCards 420-422 State Street l and Stationery a Specialty THE ONLY RUBBER STAMP 'WORICS IN THE CITY Rubber and Metal Stamps, Dies and Stencils. Indelible Ink. Marking Outfits. Daters. Badges. Sea'ls. Brass, llluminum and German Silver Novelties GET OUR PRICES EXPERT WORKMANSHIP QUALITY ACCURACY PROMPT SERVICE Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. COTRELL & LEONARD ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the Amerjcan Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class con- tracts a specialty Koch Shoe Store 257 STATE STREET Reliable Footwear . ... for all occasions and weather REMEMBER That if you want FLOWERS that will LAST, loose or arranged in DESIGN WORK, grown in our own GREENHOUSES, therefore not old or comission flowers, then call at the GREENHOUSES 1408 STATE STREET or at the store 699 ALBANY ST. Also competent advice through 35 years experience, given on FLORICULTURE by W. Chas. Eger BOTH PHONES. No connection with store of J. Eger on State St.

'fHE CONOORDIENSIS 29 Vaudeville of Q~ali:ty Photoplays of Interest State St. PROCTOR'S LibertySt ., Theatre Bea'tl.:tiful\ 4-Complete Con;tinuous Performances .Daily-4 VaudeviUe Chan.ged Mondays and Thursd·ays. Pictures Changed Daily Picturres: Afternoon, l to 6 P• rn.., 10 and 15 cts. Evening, 6 to II p. :rn.., l 0-.15-25 cts. -~----------- ''T' h; : ~ e The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET Students' Flower A complete department food store Sh '' op The best in everything for :the table .at the lowest JULIUS EGER cash prices. Both Phones 735 State St. I ·· Quick - active - service -- --- ~------- -~- ---~-- ·-------- -- -·~- -· -- -- - Suits and Overcoats of Imported Woolens WITH EXCLUSIVE DESIGNS J. J. HILLMAN Maker of Mea's Clothes 61 7 State Street. CLARK&McDONALD CLARK&MCDONA:LD SCHENECTADY N.~ 233 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Only the BEST of everything in Gold, Silver and Precious Stones. SU,CCESSORS TO SANDERS. JEWELERS

30 THE CQ:NOORD]EN:SIS fi.'CLASS PINS 'JI =,Visiting Cards 0 WEDDING ESTABUSHED 187.2 ENGRAVER E. A. WRIGHT . .. -· EXCELLED ~y N-'-Q~~­ STA.l'IONER 'jJ Announcements and Invitations 0 PHOTO 'JI ENGRAVING and Half Tone WORK Photogravure ·Commenceme:at lnv;iita.tions, Dance ]nvitations, Programs, Menus,. Fraternity Inserts and Stationery ll08 CHESTNUT STREE\T Buy Your Paint at ENGLEMAN & BELLINGER'S 212 South (entre Street ---- ------------~------ 0 J. H. FREDERICK. THE JAY STREET FLORIST will furnish you with the best flowe~s that can be produced for any occasi()n ·- Framing Pictures om Art Photogravures SP£(11\LTY Interior Decorations High. Grade Paints -GERLIN:G BROS. N.Y. Pnone 690-W 134 jay Street W!here Everybod'y Gets Shoes .Mended Our ;P.rices are No more than elsewhere, and we give you file Best Material and · the Best ·w orkmans'hip We make a specialty ·of Repairing all kinds of Rubbers N. Y. Phone 1123-J ()-pEn Evenings Home Phone 68()-J Saturday until 10 o'clock BAIL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS S. KLEIMAN, Manager Work (a]led: for and Delivere~' ]ree of Charge 521 STATE ST. SHOES SEWF.D BY HAND IF DESIRED .---------------------------------.- I ----- Ask for a Demonstration of Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Richiilond Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck The. Big Hardware Store ~UNION~- ME : N .. : ': Only - Best - Work - Done BARBOUR AND MANJ:CURE S. :G, RITCHIE ~Opposite Jay St. L. F. NICKLAS 169 Jay Street Leading Hatter and Toggery All Kinds of Renovating at Short Notice Largest Line o'f Arrow Collars in Town Quarter and Half Sizes Always Something New in Neckwear

PWiiil&&IY llRfKB.~---·------ ... -- .... & ......,_\Y..... ....... _lP_O_;:;aC&S' __ .........., __ ........_~=r.n:;o........ww ............. INti .... ww ..... _. .. , _____ &W! _____________ \'\\'!! 1-:STARUSHED 1R'i2 E. A. WRlGHT EXCELLED BY NONF FNGR AVER PRINTER .STATIONER f. f'i I< >It>.,, { 'onlii1t>JHetnt·nt Invitations. Dance lnvitatiDns. , 1 r 1 1 I r \ t 1t 1 , ! 1 ...._ :. I '\.t .H \\ 1'--..\, I Jrograrns. \lt·nus. f.'ratcrnity lnst·rts and Station en· I r:' ! I j ' i I I '-I I r, 1108 CHESTNUT STREET ENGLEMAN & BELLINGER'S 212 South Centre Street .. .. . , . .. ./- \ . . ~- '(' . • \i \ • '. ... . ' ' \~ J. H. FREDERICK ~I'll E if\\. S'l'HEJ·:'r FL<>I~I~'T' \\·ill turni~h \·ou \\·it h the hc'st tlo\\'crs . that can be· pr()dttcccl for ;n1\· occ;!~Ion ''\-l. j.,r .: llt·JJI••Jl,il;Jli••lt ••! Vactturn Cleaners lVLclgic F~lectric '-\ l {i cl1 rrlc)ncl Electric c:tark Witbeck The Big 1-lardware Store PHILADELPHIA r Framing Pictures OUR j Art Photogravures SPECIALTY ' Interior Decorations l High Grade Paints GEl~LING BROS. ~. \ Ph <JTlt\ h'l( I \\ I 1-f J.~ \ ~trr·r·t Where Everybody Gets Shoes Mended Our Prices are No more than elsewhere, and we give you the Best Material and the Best Workmanship wt\ makP a Spt\(\laltv of Rt·pairin~ ail kind!' of Rul>ht•rs N. Y. Phone 1123-J Home Phone 680-J Saturday unti I 10 o'clock Open Evenings BALL·s QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS S. KLEIMAN. Man.a~n W nrl1 Called !nr and Brlivered Frer nt Chargt· 521 STATE ST. # .',..•. . •. ' SHOES SEWED BY HAND iF DESIRE() .-.-:'~ UN I 0 N MEN ; ' i . \''-· • 1 • #,\ ,,,- .. . ~ ,; . Or1ly - Best - Work - Do11e BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. C.1. RITCHIE ()pposite Jay St. L. F. NICKLAS 169 Jay Street Leading Hatter and Toggery \ 1.1 h i II ( i .... ( \ l< ( ' I II ' \ ol ' I .II ~ ' \ I :-,1, ' II t \ II t I ' I ' I .t 1 ~·, \1 I . 11 H · u t . \ 1 r \'' ( o II~, t \ 111 I o '' 1' ( )lloill•·t .tll<l ll.,lt -..:,1/1'\ \' ' ·\lwo~\.., >orrwthrrr~· \;,.,, m '\,,., .kwr·;tr ' L I I \ l ' •I

NF. r r· r· t d ship RKS ST. ,,,- .. . ~ ,; . St. ' L I I \ l ' ' •I 1878 E. C .. HARTLEY 1911 Dealer in Fi;n·e Groceries and Provisions Special prices made for :goods in quantities to CoUege Fraternity Houses. 601-603 UNION STREET BOTH PHONES 377 YOU KNOW YOU DO You appreciate the superior service cf the club, the high class restaurant, the Pullman car-AND YOU PAY FOR IT. Do you appreciate the superior service of gas and electricity over coal and oil and hand work-AND THAT IT COSTS NO MORE? Stop in our salesroom and see the newest gas and elec- trical appliances. Either Phone 2500 SCH.ENECTADY ILLUMINATING [0 • . MOHAWK GAS CO. When in the market for floral arrangements Hatcher FLORIST Order• receive every attention afforded by our un~x­ celled facilitiea for catering to the moat exacting taste Rial. Grade Caaketa and Shower Bouqueta a Specialty Grecnhou1ea .aucl Nurseries. L. D. Phone 1413 To~ of.Fiorida aDd Hoffman, N.Y. INVESTIGATE ''For good Wf>rlc and Prompt .Servicet• The Gasner Laundry 448 State St. Home Phone 431 N~ Y. Phone 1214 Special Prices on Entire Wash UNION STUDENTS are invited to open a check account w.il;h us. Account• of Clubs, Fraterni·ties and Aaao· citations solicitated. THE SCHENECTADY TRUST CO. 318 amd· 320 STATE STREET The Empire Laundry Walter & Hedden, Props., Phones 337 21 Jay Street Raincoats ! ! Get your Rain- coats· at the - • - Rubber Store ALLIN.G RUBBER CO. 229 STATE ST. Sporting, Athletic & Rubber- Goocla N. Y. C. Arcade Home 42.5 I State St. :.--.--- ........... ---------~

' \ .; . I . . . ~-r:nrnrmrmwnrn\m illtlill!llllllillmi&WW r r '· ngl'. ·nee·' !llj I 2 \ ••• • •!l!i± .\\ . ' ·. . . . II . . .. 1 !tl!!!l!!!!!!!-· ••. ... .. . t!'C!'WR~ 11.1 ;;;;;;;,.=;;;;==;·, .• ·--· .. -------- ·-- ............ ··-- . ' . •-.·- .... -, · HIS is a young. men's store; the clothes w-e have ' · for young men are made from· fabrics, in · colors and patterns for young 111en. · The sizes and models are not simply small Ill en 't s sizes ar1d models; they're designed for young figures. ,• . Hart, Schaffner and ~ Marx know l1ow to make them right; we'll show you that we know I {;opyrlgbt Hart Schaffner & M~rx ho-w to sell them right .. I ~ ' Suits $18 and up. Overcoats $18 and up. I r The Ho~ne of Hale)'t, Shaffner & Marx Clothes _ .. -..--=rdJl The Ncw .. Hes ... Mor Printing Co.f l:nc. 420 State Stree~ Schenectady, N. Y. • tt ... ...s . .$\\ :.

