..... . PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LLa D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: :t. Cour~e• leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite 0 2a Course leadfnc to tlle degree of Ph. B. LATIN -SCIEN'tU'IC CouRS£-· This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Courae lead:ID&' to the decree ot Do S .. Sc:n~NTI1IC CouRs~- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadiD&' to the degree ot B. E. G~NERAL ENGINEERING Cou:~s~- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRs~- This differs fron1 the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5.. Courses leading to graduate degree11. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our spedal Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRS! ~EADING To DEGREE o1 M.S. E. E.- This course of <>ne year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and· research work. CouRsE L:EADING ro DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. .For catal<>gues or other information address F. C. BARNES~> Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE . ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstl~ations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa .. tion sent on application to : WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. P.AitKER, ]. NEW'l'ON FI~RO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW S(;HOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $xo; tuition fee, $I IO. For catalogue or other in formation, address : JOHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. H UESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St, Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except ~Exsma\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Han Phone 1896~ W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop · Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \C'ONCORDY\' ~ \ \ ; ' ., ~.~· ·~ ( ' ',• .J . .. I j I I t I I J ;· { \ ,I. '· '· I \'\ I \-::1 I ~~·· ... ' . •'' ,, t '

I t I I I r I ' , ( ' ',• .J . '· l i I ~ \ '· \ .. ,~. I\~ 1 h1 I ~~·- .. ' ' •'' ,, t ' UNION COLLE!~£ LIBRARY· THE CON.CORDIENSIS Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free· delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY Do your Holiday plans include a Winter Suit or Overcoat ? If so come to Steefels-thousands of gar- ments--hundreds of exclusive styles, no delays, and dollars saved for the trip or the dance. ''Up· to the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes\ You are a College Man Let us show you what \class\ goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity brothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your chums. STULL BROS., Tailors Opp. Old Post Office il58 Jay Street A Good English Style $Io to f,6o EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE We want you to see our new Mackinaws Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to $5. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. H anans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS In the''Wee Sm.a' Hours'' When you're \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for .. a quiz- When your,making up that ·~condition''- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you''ll appreciate the cheery and cheering warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, • New· York Orders For Bad-Fitting Clothes Are Decreasing Men spend their money for made- to-order suits that fit. They find they are much cheaper in the end. There is a demand for better cus- tom tailoring. We meet it fully SMITH Be CLUTE 1 CENTRAL ARCADE Hurley Shoes FOR MEN Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three essentials to perfect footwear sa tis· faction that every man hopes to get in the shoes they buy- and which they do get when making their sel- ection from our stock of -Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 and $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 273 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\' ·l '• ·.' j ., I . \ .· I .l \ : \ ' ' <' \ \ '

·l '• ·.' j ., I . \ .· I .l \ : \ ' ' <' \ \ ' THE CONCORDIEN:8IS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies. 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles ROSES ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS ' 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBA:NY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 THAT IS RIGHT, REASON.ABLE AND ON TIME ~rqrnrrta~y Art lfrtaa J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady Get Tomorrow '.a Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you · will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN AuthC>rized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-·GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACE TELEPHONE 42f58·W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONC'ORDIENSIS. BABBITT'S: F .. W. Mullin J. ;F. Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mullin \THE MEN'S XMAS. SHOP\ . 111.. ~~ 1ft • wuutt ~ \tltnmpauy Our Furnishing Department 1s in charge of an expert who knows . what men want. You will find in this de- · partment hundreds of ideal gifts in Fancy · Shirts, Hosiery, Neckwear, Collars, Under- · wear, Jewelry, Pajamas, Suspenders, Belts, · Handkerchiefs, Full Dress Scarfs, Silk Mufflers, Leather Collar Cases, Etc. The · prices are as low as you will find anywhere and the class of goods we carry are far ahead of the department store varities. Our Hat Department Is the best in the city, and here will be found the highest grade bats made., In connection with our hat department is our trunk and bag department, where only dependable gooda are sold, and at very moderate prices. We make a special feature of Evening Clothes made by Rogers- Peet Co. We specialize in this department of our but· iness and in offering you evening clothes made by ROGERS-PEET, we offer you clothes the equal of the very best custom tailor's, at much less the custom price. We also carry other makes at less coat to you. TUXEDOS $22.50 to $42.50 FULL DRESS $25.00 to $56.50 Babbitt & Co. 451-453 Broadway ''Albany's Greatest Clotllers'' :ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper S2 NORT'H PEARL STREET AI:bany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. C'ONCORD:Y•• • .. . ' ... \. ', '

•,. . ' THE CONCORDIENSIS Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WEBER Cluett & Sons AND ! PIANO.LA PIANOS ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE 4508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y W . HERE , ••·Jf It's :Made of Rubber We Have It' Everybody Gets Shoes Mended Our prices are no more than elsewhere, and we give you the best material and workmanship. We make a specialty of repairing all kinds of rubbers. Work called for and delivered Free of charge. Shoes sewed by hand if desired. Open evenings - Saturday until 10 o'clock. m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods .Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. 52 I State Street 229 State Street 23 Storea Telephone 34 56 H 0 L T z M A N ' s LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES [i1 French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S UNDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Larlest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P ATRONIZERS ,.

H L ·.• THE CONiCORDlENSIS SPORTING GOODS BIG STORE---BIG STOCK We are Albany's Leading Distributors. Here you will find the largest line of Sporting and ... t\.thletic Goods in Albany. Every article selected with care from the most popular lines. Quality the best ALBANY HARDWARE :& IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer'' GARNET 19()3 19()4 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1906 D. B. PAIGE, SigmaPhiHouse NEAR BARNEY'S College Representative 19()7 19()8 Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters· for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that a·re essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street ..... •. • .. _._,.- .. .- ......... •:•··~ no. aNeW ARROW Jf'otchCOL.LAR Cluett. Peabody A Co., Inc. Maker• SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \C'ONCORDY'' 1909 1910 1911 1012 1913 1914 .I ':ll ·' ~~~ 1.~ .f .'I ·< i, I i '. I . ' I• \ ., ' \

I i '. I . ' I• \ ., ' \ The Concordiensis VOL. 37 DECEMBER 4, 1913 NO.8 RI .PS pass a few idle ,moments. I completely THE GLEE CLUB T . · · dd 1 1 lost track of the time until I su en Y rea - Extracts From the Diary of One of the ,. ized that the special left at 3 :SO. It was \Culprits.\ then 3 :49, 80 I made a quick exit and Nov. 25th-\Vell, here we are; our reached the station just as the train pulled initial concert over and everybody very out. What was I to do? My companion- well satisfied. My, but we had some in-lnisery suggested we put on our full ... trouble getting here! And we didn't all dress suits and then \hook\ a freight for get to Cobleskill on time, either! Well, you see, the train was scheduled to leave at 3:50, but, as Billy Mudge and \Rog\ MacMillan weren't there, the conductor condescended to hold the train until they did come. We finally pulled out of the station about 3 :58. Imagine our conster- nation to find that Billy Cole and Pete Hadley were not on the train. No one had seen them or knew where they were, so ish ga bibble! We arrived here after a very uneventful and unexciting journey on the D. & H. After being assigned to our various stopping places, we took our way thitherward-with the aid of a company of Boy Scouts-to assemble again at 8 :00. The program started about 8 :20, and was run off without a hitch of any kind. Billy Cole and Pete Hadley, arrayed in their full-dress suits, but looking like two es- caped lunatics, appeared on the scene about 9:10. It seems-oh, well, we'll let Pete write the story of their experiences. I got downtown about 3 :00, and having nothing to do, droppe.d in to the Art to THE HADI ... EY -COLE SPECIAL Cobleskill. Carried. We finally left Sche- nectady at 5 :00, but only went about te.n rniles when the boxcar \i\re were nding irt 'vas side-tracked and the freight went off and left us. We then hit the ties for about a mile and then caught the fast freight which got us into Cobleskill about 8 :30. As long as we made the concert at all we are satisfied. Well, that's their story ! Pretty fishy, but on account ot lack of discriminating proof to the contrary we will accept it.

I , : l I It ll j\ •I (\ I l' I ~ I 1 \' ' •_1 ! ! I ' ~ l I .J.:. p; t~ ; ... ' i I , . I li '!i I ' 10 'THE CONCORDIENSIS After the concert we returned to all the various stoppin.g-places and were very royaHy entertained. Nov. 26th-0tJ the job bri:g-ht and early this morning. Went down to the post- office about 9 :30 and met most of the fellows. We paraded up .a111d down the main street a few times-· we were very much interested iu a young girl in one of the insurance offices. After returning to the railroad station we discovered that V oshurg and Braman were .missing. Re- peated efforts to find then1 wer.e unsuc.cess- ful. Finally sorne one went back to the insurance office and there found the mis- sing culprits. Nee.dless to say, they re- ceived their share of the kidding for a few hours. The train pulled out at 11 :33 with everybody on hand. A stop o£ ten minutes at Oneonta was qtilized in satisfying the inner man. As we thought the D. & H. plenty rich enough, very few paid for our lunches. Hadley nearly missed the train. He caught it as it pulled out, having waited another m.inute to de-vour a 'ste.enth piece of pie. Needless to say, he was eat- ing a piece of pie when he boarded the train. Arrived in Binghamton about 2:30, and were met by a bevy of sorority girls. After considerable trouble, we left for our various places of rest ( ?) accompanied by members of the fair sex. We met again at Bob Douglas' home at 3 :30 for an in- formal reception. Su.ch a collection of fair damsels I have never seen before. But . - . ' be that is it may, we enjoyed ourselves im- n1ensely. The concert was given in the Monday Afternoon Club House and was very largely attended. Fred Cure, Bill Darrow and \Gary\ Wood joine~ us here. It seems they pulled quite a. surprise on the train from Utica. According to an eye- witness, the three fellows left the rear car shortly after leaving Utica. They took only their suitcases with thetn. \tVhen they returned to ihe rear car a half hour later they were all in full dress. What happened only a magician can guess. It is useless to say :their re--appearance did not cause quite a con1motion. After the con- cert, dancing was ·enj:oyed untH one o'clock. Nov. 27th-·Thanksgtving Day. Nothing doing this morning bu.t sleep. Clubs as- senlbled at the I-Iotel Bennett at noon and a very delightful dinner was enjoyed. Dur- ing the dinner various songs were sung and yells given, aU tending to liven things up a bit. We left Binghamton at 3 :30, and arrived at Elmira in about two hours. During the trip our leader, \Stan\ Stnith, fell in with a Psi U \red dog\ shark, who proceeded to win about everything in sight. \]f you must dance_, you must pay the fiddler.\ The concert was given in the - -- ..,~ _::::=- -- - -- ;; ¥? = ·~ ~ ~ STAN SMITH'S NEW PET auditorium of Elmira College and was at- tended by close to six hundred persons. The program was rendered in a very snap- py .manner and everybody received well- deserved applause. At the conclusion of the program, dancing was indulged in until t~Telve o ·clock. Everything has gone along smoothly so far and everybody is having one swell time. Nov. 28th-Everybody was up bright and early this morning and all reported in time to catch the 9 :35 train for Hoboken. ·.: ;j ., ., .. ~ 'f,.

·,: ;j ., ., .. ~ 'f,. \ \ THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 We had a very long jump-something like three hundred miles-· but it was thorough- ly enjoyed by aU; especially delightful was the ride through the Delaware water-gap. We arrived at Freeport, Long Island, around 6:30 P. M., and then \Gary\ Wood tried to leave us, by getting in the way of a runaway horse. Luckily, nothing serious happened, so \Gary\ is still on the job. The concert was given at the Freeport Club House before a very large and crit- ical audience. MacMillan was the star per- former and was roundly applauded. Danc- ing until the we.e-sma' hours of Saturday followed the concert. Nov. 29th-Ten-seventeen found us all at the station for the last jun1p of our trip. We arrived in New York City at 11 :30 and proceeded directly to the Hotel Cum- berland, where we were put up for the day and night. In the afternoon most of us went to the show-some to the Hippo- drome, others to the \Madcap Duchess,\ still others to \Nearly Married,\ and so on. After a very enjoyable dinner at the hotel we re-assembled at the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church in Brooklyn, where our last concert was given. Bill Darrow was late in reporting at the. church -he says he was in a trolley-car wreck ! Poor excuse is better than none, Bill ! However, the concert was very successfully put on, and every one present spoke very highly of the work of both clubs. Nov. 30th-Sunday at last! Nothing to do but sleep, and that is all any of us did do. Our next concert is in Chatha1n, this Saturday evening. COACH DAWSON MEETS WITH RULES COMMITTEE. Members of the Basketball Rules Com- mittee, coaches, officials and players, rep- resenting nearly all of the universities in the East and Middle West, held their an- nual conclave last week at the Hotel Astor iN New York, and discussed the various changes irt the rules of the game for the . ensu1ng year. The changes this year are fe.w, and are rnade in the interest of cleanness and defi- niteness. Two important changes were made. Fred Dawson aided in the clearing up of what appeared a perpiexing situation in regard to blocking, when he suggested that \A player is entitled to take any posit ion on the court, but if in taking a position he faces an oppone.n t and makes bodily contact with an opponent, so as to interfere with the latter's progress, he is blocking.'' ''And\ in the foregoing para- ,. graph was inserted to take the place. of ~'or,\ as the note originally read, and proved acceptable to the large gathering. With reference to the \jump ball,\ the committee sought, first, to lessen the num- ber of opportunities for the play itself, and second, to change the rule governing the play so as to make it more difficult to commit an intentional foul, and easier for the official to detect it when it is made. In the first place, the rule governing possession of the ball out of bounds has been changed, so that when the ball goes out of bounds it is awarded to an opponent of the player who was last touched by the ball, before it crossed the line. The second change in the rule governing the \jump ball\ is to require the man j!umping to place and to keep one hand be- hind the back at the waistline until the ball has been touched on the jump. This regulation will undoubtedly lessen the height to which a player can jump, but it will eliminate the holding, pushing, etc., tltat have been so freely used in this play. In their desire for a proper code of rules and their interpretation, it was the con- tention of all that in order to help on the sport the primary object is that th~ tnen in the game play the ball, and not the

' .· l . I I ,. i ; ; I ; i ·' :. I '' '. I , I ll.t I .. i :; I !,' '< ' H ~;.I l I 1 ! 1 ' ';.- q :I : i yl ·'. : ~ : i I, : l· q l ~ . II ; I i ; f ; ! I ' I I I I , ' ' ' I . ~ I 12 THE C'ONCORDIENSIS TH·E ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE The Teams Have Been Picked and Are Hard at Work. On Friday December 12th, the debating ' . season will be formally opened. On th1s date will occur the annual Allison-Foote debate between the Philomathean and Adelphic Debating Societies. Both societies have chosen their representative teams and they are hard at work. The subject for debate will be: \Resolved 'f'hat the state should adopt the principle of the minimum wage for women and children empioyed in shops, factories, by public service corpora- tions and by the state itself.\ The Adel- phic team is composed of Fitzgerald, '15; Blodgett, '15, and Coulter, '15, wit~ Taylor, '16, as alternate, while the Philomathean team will consist of Jacobs, '16; Sternfeld, '16; Williams, '14, and Guthmann, '14, al- ternate. Philomathean will uphold the af- firmative of the proposition, Adelphic the negative. The Cornell-Union debate is the only 'varsity debate thus far assured, though it is certain that two or more others will be arranged. Indications are that there will be no tri-Ieague debates this year, the agreement between Union, Colgate and Hamilton having terminated last year. There is a possibility that another league will be formed between Union, Hamilton and St. Lawrence. There has been considerable talk of a proposed freshman-sophomore debate this year. The debating ·council heartily en- dorses the project, and a lively struggle would result if the affair takes place. Underclass supremacy is still in doubt, the \sophs\ having won the cane-rush and the \frosh\ the inter-class games, and so both classes would welcome a chance to settle the mooted question in this more dignified manner. !COLLEGE MUSICALES ARRANGED. The musicales under the auspices of iUnion College are to be continued another winter, and an unusually fine program has been prepared by the. ladies of the com- mittee for the co1ning season. The pro- gram is one which will undoubtedly appeal deeply to all true music lovers, and will be vastly beneficial to students of music. The opening concert will be rendered by the Adamoski T'rio on Monday evening, January 12th. The Adamoskis have al- ready endeared themselves to concert-goers in Schenectady, but this will be their first appearance in the College Chapel. Evan Will:ams, the Welsh tenor, has been engaged for Friday evening, February 13th. As he is a great favorite in America, and especially in New York, his concert should prove highly entertaining to every one. Madam Alma Gluck will give the last concert of the course on Friday evening, March 27th. It is not expected that the Chapel will hold the large number who will want to hear Madam Gluck sing, and it is probable that the recital will be the occasion of the formal opening of Gymna- sium Alumnorum. THE NEW BASKETB·ALL LEAGUE. Union College is to be a member of a new basketball league this year. The league is to be known as the Northeastern Collegiate Basketball League in order to distinguish it from the Eastern Inte.rcol- legiate League. The colleges ~epresented at present are Union, Williams, Colgate and Wesleyan, although an effort is being made to have Amherst and Brown join the league. The Wright and Ditson Company have offered a beautiful silver trophy in the shape of a basketball. This trophy is to becotne the property of the college which is the first to win the championship three -~ '' ,····

,, I; ,···· 'THE CON·CORDIENSIS 13 times. The trophy will be exhibited here in a short titne. It will probably he ex- hibited in the College office first, and will then be exhibited in one of the down town store windows. The scoring of the teams wiH be on the percentage basis, each tea1n playing two gatn.es with every other team in the league. It was decided at the meeting of the league, held in Hartford, Conn., on October 24, that the intercollegiate rules in-bounds and out-of-bounds should govern the con- tests. It was also decided that the Wright and Ditson ball should be the official ball. CHEMISTRY NOTES. Dr. F. D. Crane will lecture in the lab- oratory lecture room on the evening of December 5th on the subject of artificial flavoring extracts. Dr. Crane is research chemist for the Synfleur Scientific Labora- tories, whose specialty is flavoring extracts and perfumes. He was here last spring and lectured on the subj e.ct of perfumes, and was received with a good deal of en- thusiasm. He will ilJustrate the coming lecture, as he did the last, with experiments and samples, and the lecture will be open to the student body. While the subject deals with some complicated chemical com- pounds, Dr. Crane makes his lectures pop- ular and interesting. The Departn1ent of Chemistry has re~ ceived from various firms some collections of specimens illustrating the principles of applied chemistry. The latest arrivals are a dozen samples illustrating the manufac- ture of portland cement from Mr. R. B. Dixon, chemist for the Glens Falls Port- land Cement Company; a collection of seventeen samples of petroleum products from Mr. H. C. Folger, Jr., President of the Standard Oil Company; a collection of twenty-five samples, illustrating the pro- cesses involved in the manufacture of rub- ber, from Mr. Gordon Hall, of the United Rubber Company. FREEPORT LIKES TAN,GO. College Glee Clubs Show Natives the Latest Steps. (From the Brooklyn Times.) FREEPORT, L. I., Nov. 29.-The ban on the popular tango and turkey trot was raised last night by the Entertainment Committee of the Freeport Club, and there is every likelihood that it will never again interfere with the activities of the younger element. 1\Jthough it was p.urely an experiment pn the part of the club managers, the effect was ~o generally satisfactory that an appeal will be made to Werner Nygren, President, to sanction it in the future. Exaggerated dances will be prohibited, but the newer steps may be danced without fear of rnolestation by anyone, even the more· sedate officers. The Union College Glee, Banjo and Mandolin Clubs gave a concert at the club house last night, and one of the n1embers asked whether the newer dances (the turkey trot, tango and hesitation waltz) would be tolerated. The question was asked of L. S. Mabie, Chairman of the Entertainment Committee, but he de- clined to give his answer until he had con- ferred with his associates, Thomas J. Spence and Theodore H. Vought. Then the col- lege men were informed that the \boys\ could go as far as they liked, and every- body danced the tango. The Union College interpretation of the dance pleased-pleased the girls and offi-. cers, and was allowed. First Stude-It's a funny thing about our college. Second Humorist-What's a funny thing about our college? First Stude-Why every time our team is behind, the college is behind the team.

: 'j ; j, ' l ! ~ , I ''i :;I ! : I , ,I i : ·' I' ' ' ' i : I I I 14 THE: ·CO·NCORDIENSlS MONEY. We enter into this world with an 1mborn awe of money, a certain predisp~sition which impels us to grapple in filthy :soeram- bl'e to increase our wealth. Money :J::ie s. in the very quick of our thought, a~ai ting every opportunity to assert itseU. All thought cycles around it as a center-,. caus- ing no impulse without its consultation. Although some individuals have noit per- mitted this tremor to entirely co Esun1e their brain, nevertheless the rotteness :ex- ists and should be at ieast controlled. Tbe ravages of this evil force exempt no one; peasant, king and prophet alike faH ing :o e- fore it. ure the services of many of the bene.factors of the United States in dollars and cents. He said, atnong other things : ''I consider Jefferson's services we.re worth $500,000,- 000.\ It seems ridiculous that this man should make such statements and still more so, that such a learned assen1blage should listen, applaud, and praise such re.marks. Emerson says : \The only reward of virtue is virtue.\ And the old lame slave, Epictetus, who lived 2,000 years ago, writes: \Have you aga'in forgotten? Know you not that a good man does nothing for appearance's sake, but for the sake of having done A college friend of ·mine once wrote in part: \And when I have made tny for- tune I will devote n1y time and n1oney in building churches, schools and librelries, and in helping mankind in general.\ My triend is laboring under hallucinations. His thoughts are fallacies. He places m:Dney on a plane above everything else, }()sing sight of the fact that personal sincerity and activity can accomplish more than miUro11s in greatest potency. My young fTi end would, perhaps, have a thousand cbDd slaves troop out of a great n1ill of industry and then build a school or library for the favored few. Or perhaps he would :have ten thousand thralls bend their backs in some dust-laden temple of freedom; then build a church, symbolic of his worthiness. Such incidents are. common. The people have money as their i€1t)l, and those few who possess it have the remaining worshiping at their feet. Tt rs a lamentable fact !\ We live money, tbi n:k money, adore money. Money and man :ar-e inseparable. The greatest, the richest, a:nd the poorest man are affiliated to an unc()n- que.rab1e greed for money. It is but a sbor1 time ago William ] ennings Bryan, Secre- tary of State, stood before a vast assem- blage at Chautauqua and attempted to :tig- good?:\ ''Is there no reward then?\ Reward 1 Do you seek any greater reward for a good man than in doing what is just and . right?\ So we see that many of us unwittingly think with money as a basis. Lurking in sub-consciousness is the love of money ever elert to sally forth and poison our thoughts. The degree to which our minds are poisoned lies in the extent we permit this vileness to penetrate our morals. The evolutional robber differs only from the atavic only in the method of procedure. Yet we bow our heads in presence of the former and remark in subdued whispers the greatness of the man; whereas the latter we cast into a sea of moral turpitude, flattering ourselves that we have performed a deed of justice. How Iong will this con- tinue 1 How long will the one, though he saps. the joy of scores of lives, be hailed as a superior being; while the other, pres- sed on all sides, is inprisone.d for the theft of a few dollars? This state will continue just so long as the evolutional robber doles out or dangles l1is dollars to the multitude blinded with the gleam of gold. This state will continue until the people have learned the true identity of money. The poet 1 the ,;.

rs - ' n 11 h .,,', ·'· t • t ' ' ; i . ' THE CONCORDfENSIS 15 prophet, and the reformer may sound their voices in every clime, but not until: that tin1e. when the fundamentals of money are perceived by the individual will the r.efor- nlation of the world take place . Accordingly, let us consider the powers of money. Bu11ock gives as the functions of tnoney, first, a medium of exchange; second, a value denominator; third, a stan- dard for deferred payments; fourth, a legal tender of debts. We can easily induce that these functions are of a material sense because of the fact that money is matter. One can not conceive of a single instance where matter has performed the function of other than that of matter. Money can be used as a value denominator .or tnedium of exchange for rna tter only. One cannot give so many dollars to the purchase of love, absolute love. One cannot say that a man's act, prompted by compassion, in saving a life, is worth so many dollars and cents. Sometimes, however, money is easily mistaken for virtue. When one gives to charity, the money is a medium of vir- tue. The virtue lies in the deed itself. The large offering of the millionaire is of less value than the widow's mite. So let us in our daily thoughts not re- gard a man's achievements by his accu- mulation of material substance, but rather by his moral vigor and activity. Let us not concentrate our ininds upon the 1neans of increasing our wealth, but rather in the resistance of the stimuli which money is alvvays besetting upon us. Let us strive to defeat this powerful lure of wealth. and let our arms be thought-subjective thought. C. A. L., '17. CALENDAR FOR THE WEEK. Friday, December S-8 P. M., Lecture on Artificial Flavoring- Extracts bv Dr. F. D. Crane in the Chemical Lecture .. Room. EngHsh Ciub n1eeting, Washburn Hall, 8:30 P. M. Sunday, D·ecember 7-Vespers at 4:30 P. M. in ·College Chapel. The speakers wiU he Rev. E. W. Miller, '87; Rev. W. I. Chamlerlan, and Mr. David McConaughy. Monday, December 8-College meeting at noon in the Chapel. Glee Club rehear- sal at 7.:15 P. M. in Silliman Hall. 1\ttesday, December 9-Interclass Basket- baJl, 4-:.30 P. M., in the Armory, 1914 vs. 1916. Y. M. C. A. Cabinet meeting at 1 P. M. Bible Study leaders, meeting at 5 P.M. Wednesday, December 10-Bible Class, Se-ct·ion A, at 4 P. M. Section B at 5 P. M. Press Club meeting, 7 :15 P. M., Wash- burn Hall. Thursday, December 11-Interclass Bas- ketbaJl, 4:30 P. M., in the Armory, 1913 vs. 1917, 1915 vs. 1916. Terrace Council meeting at 1 P. M. Faculty meeting at 4:30 P. M. STARBU·CK ELECTED CAPTAIN. D()nald Arthur Starbuck ,'15, of Gouver- neur, is the captain-elect of our football tea.tn. '\Pete\ has played both quarterback and end positions, and should make an able successor to \Del\ Sarvey. 1~he foot- ball a. wards were as follows: U-Hokerk, Jenkins, Jackson, Sarvey, D. Beaver~ Story, Girling, Wood, Starbuck, Page, Roof, Stoller, Price, Gardner. A. U. A.~Malien. Cleveland, Vrooman, Do-wns, Butler, J. Beaver, Hickok, Nash. BytDn, '15, was given honorary mention by tbe awards committee, being ineligible bee at.lse of the one-year rule. Th.e cross-country awards, made by the Athletic Association, were: D.-Friday, Newton. A. U. A.-Mudge, Sherman, Sc<?hy, Gun- ning,. Hoffman.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE OONCORDIENSIS final \exams\ to pass. Primarily we must do this for our own sakes, and will do it well, but even more, we must use every effort to uphold the splendid record of our college in scholarship for the past year. A Lite.rary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffi.ce at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. .Qf late men have shown an increasing ear- nestness in their studies, and the Faculty hegins to feel satisfaction in its efforts, but it is only through continued applica- tion to our work that this record can be ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN .. CHIEF, Raymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L.' Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, 'rs; D. A. Coulter, 'IS; H. N. Hubbs, 'IS; E. R. Hughes, 'IS. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Asst. Business Manager, Delta Upsilon House. Publication .Office : SCHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. \BUCKLE DOWN.\ The football season is now a n1atter of history, and we begin to look forward to our customary success on the basketball court. We are particularly eager to see the Garnet quintet in action, because it almost invariably brings victory to our college, and to defeat such rivals as Colgate, R. P. 1. and Rochester gladdens the heart of every loyal Union man. We still have the same spirit that was made manifest dur- ing the football season, and are only await- ing the advent of basketball to prove this. But we each have an important duty, fellows, before we can devote all our ener- gies to athletics. We have the Fall term tna.intained. Considering aU that the Faculty has done for the student body, as a whole, and the manner in which they have supported all of our athletic interests, it is only fair that we keep our scholarship beyond criticism. 'The Faculty granted various privileges during the football season, and many more we took upon ourselves. On the whole, the Faculty has been especially lenient in its rulings this year, so let's show our appreciation by passing first-grade ~'exams.\ Understand, that in so doing we are not favoring the Faculty, but think of it rather as a duty to yourself and the college. Pass your term finals and return to college after the holidays with not a thought of condition \exams\ or back work to make up. Then you will, indeed, be able to help Fred Dawson and the team. The members of the team have shown themselves proficient in their studies, and if these men, who sacrifice -so much of their time and energy in the gam,e, can succeed in their courses, there can be no reason why the rest of us should fail. Here at Union we devote a compara- tively shorter tin1e to athletics than at other colleges. This has been a serious handicap to our teams, but at that we have . ' ~ ' ~ I J • 'I l ,, I 'I ~~ , yJ v \

• - ., ~~ . ' ~ ' ~ I J • 'I \\ ,; ,, I i I I ,I \ l \:-; I 'I ~~ , yJ y. \ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 succeeded in turning out a large number of championship teams. This year's basket- ball team i~s of a chatnpionship calibre and should bring the N. Y. S. I. A. U. pennant to Union. Let's show the collegiate world that a student body can have and support a winning team and at the same time maintain a high average in its studies. fn order to do this. we must start the Winter term with a clean record. T·wo weeks stiU remain before ''exatns. '' Time enough for the able students to review their courses, and an opportunity for the \'lesser lights\ to catch up. Ey all means money-rrtaking basis. Assisted by the Graduate Council, they are merely trying to give the students a serviceable souvenir of their college, something which wiU be good to look over in future days. The efforts of the Press Club are highly com- tnendable, and since the price of the calen- dar is only moderate, there should be no reason why every man in college can not have at least one to keep, while many should want another for their hotnes, or any other place where a Union College Calendar would appear attractive. Sup- port the Press Club and help spread the pass your finals and do not feel contented fame of Old Union. with merely a passing mark, but be ener- getic and register some really credible grades on your report. ·rhen when you go to a basketball game at the new \Gym whether it be to play or sit on the side- lines, you will assuredly gain far more enjoyment from the sport than if your 1nind be troubled with deficiencies in your work. Your record, the reputation of your col- lege, and the success of your team, depend upon your work, so buckle down. COLLEGE CALENDAR. The Press Club will distribute the an- nual College Calendar during the early part of the week. The calendar this year is better than ever before. A series of original views and illustrations make it a particularly attractive souvenir. ~fhis has always been a splendid advertising medium for our college, and is widel'y distributed among our alumni. 'fhe Press Club is by no means publishing the calendar on a PRESS CLUB CALENDAR READY. Fourtee·n New Men Taken Into the Club. At the last meeting of the Press Club the following men were elected members: Gilbert, '17; Delchamps, '15; E. W. Man- deville, '17; H. M. Lewis, '16; Douglas, '17; Brandow, '17; Andrews, '17; Buchan- an, '17; Weeks, '17; Coon, '17; Knight, '17; Hauenstein, '15, and Chapman, '17. Dr. Hill was appointed as advisory member frotn the Faculty. At this meeting Mr. Conde, Chairman of the Publicity Commit- tee of the Graduate Council, gave a short, interesting talk to the Clttb. The Union College calendar which the Press Club gets out every year will be ready by the first part of next week. This calendar has been highly recommended in the past both for its artistic merits and for the publicity which it gives the college. The latter is the chief reason why it is published, as the Club makes no money out of it, and last year the sales ran behind the expense of publication. The calendar presents a fine collection of designs and cuts, and is a work of art in itself. Its artistic qualities make it an ideal Christmas gift, and every student should get at least

18 THE 'CONCORDIEN.S'I:S two or three to give to his friends when he goes home for the holidays. They wD;l be found on saie at the College Office, in tbe stores downstreet and at the frate.rn~ty houses. Price fifty cents. PREXY V1SlTS WESTERN ALUMNI. 1:'he follovvin.g is a list of President Rich- mond's eng-.agements for the next two weeks: Dec. 2-He was a guest at dinner of the Union aJumni of Detroit, and spoke to the students of the Detroit High School. Dec. 4--H,e will attend the dinner of the Union alumni of Chicago, and will be a guest at the Princeton Alumni Luncheon in Chicago. Dec. 5-JEe will attend the dinner of the Union alumni of St. Paul, Minneapolis and Duluth at :SL Paul. Dec. 11-He will be a guest at the din- ner of the Union alumni of New York. Dec. 16-He will attend the annual din- ner of the University, Club of Geneva, and will address the students of the Geneva High SchooL DELEGATES TO CONVENTION. Union to Ha.:ve Her Full Representation at World Conference. The Seventh International Student Vol- unteer Convention is to be held in Kansas City, Missou:ri, from December 31 to Jan- nary 4th. T'h e basis of representation of colleges is as follows : Two student dele- gates for the first two hundred, one stu- dent delegate for each two hundred above that, one fa~ulty representative and the student secreiary. The purpose of the convention is, first, to bring tog-.ether at Kansas City repre- sentative delegations of students and pro- fessors from a.ll important institutions of higher learning in Canada and the United States and le~ders of the foreign mission- ary enterprise, for helpful association and conference ; second, to consider unitedly the problents of the evangelization of the non- Christian world; third, to gain inspiration and a vision of the foreign mtsstonary re- sponsibilihes of the church, and fourth, to pray and earnestly resolve to enter with greater consecration upon the vvork of ex- tending tlij_e Kingdotn of Christ an1ong the uon-Cbri:sUan nations.. 1~he deJegates from Union ar,e Mr. Tay- lor from the Faculty and R. S. Blodg.ett ~15, for tl•le student body. The other two delegates will be appointed by the Y. M. C. A. The student body passed a tax of twenty- five cents per man to pay the expenses of their del\·gate. INTERCLASS BASKETBALL. The annual interclass struggle for the W. B. Joseph Basketball Cup is now in progress. Teams from each class have been fanned and gan1e.s arranged. At the time of going to press one game has be en completecl, that between the Sophomores and the Freshmen on Nov. 25, in the Armory, which was won by the Freshmen, 32-18. Games between the four classes are scheduled a.s follows: First Round. Tuesday, November 25-1916 vs. 1917. Tuesday, December 2-1914 vs. 1915. Thursday, December 4-1915 vs. 1917.. Second Round. Tuesday, Decetnber 9--1914 vs. 1916. Thursday, December 11=-----1914 vs. 1917 and 1915 vs. 1916. The cup was given the college three years ago for the purpose of promoting interclass interest in athletics by W. B. Joseph of Schenectady. The first year of the competition no result was posted as there were several forfeitures of games. But for the last two years the class of 191 S has won the cup, the first year as 1 ' i • ''· .. / :':·~ J f ' ~ .. ·J : I ! i ' I . j .. i \ ' .. \' t' \

' i ' '•· .. ,/ ,,:,t j f ' ~ .. ·J : l ! i ' I . j :. i \ ' ' . \' Y' ' THE CON·CORDIENSlS 19 Fres:b.:ttlen and :last year as Sophomores. Rivai~y is keen this year and there is no way (j)f forcastin:g which team wtll be the . ~ r VlCtO \ THE VAN ORDEN PRIZE ESSAY. The attention of Freshn1en is called to the announcement of the Van Orden Prize in the University Catalogue, page 144. The conJi tions governing the essa,y on vvhicb the a.vvard is partly based, are announced herew-ith. 1. :Subject-The essay is to be upon one of the follovving subjects. Dr. Johnson a..s a Moralist. Sir Walter Scott as an Antiquarian. ,. Abraham Lincoln's Education. Huxley's Attack Upon Traditional Ideas. Stevenson's Attitude Toward Life. Tolstoi's Views on Life After 1878. 2. Preliminary Reading- In each case mater,ial for the essay is to be drawn first fro1n one of the biographies or collections of letters mentioned below; and in the award of the prize especial importance will be attached to the use of such material. Jam:es Boswell, Life of Dr. Johnson. ]. G. Lockhart, Life of Sir Walter ScotL Hay and Nicolay, Abraham Lincoln, A History (chiefly first two volumes). Leonard Huxley, Life and Letters of Thomas H. Huxley, 2 vols. Let~ters of Robert Louis Stevenson, B io- graphical Edition, 4 vols. Aylmer Maude, Life of Tolstoi, 2 vols. 3. Form of Essays-The essay should be fr()m 1,500 to 2,500 words in length: it must be typewritten, and sigt).ed with a pseudonym; and it must be accotnpanied by a sealed envelope containing the writers' name and superscribed with his pseudo- nym. 4. Date- The essays should be pre- sented at the college office on or before Saturday, May 16th~ at noon. EDWARD E. HALE. DR. MILLER, '87, WILL SPEAK. The Vesper service this coming Sunday will be held in the College Chapel. Rev. E. W. MiUer, D. D., Union '87; Rev. W. I. Chamberlan, D. D., and Mr. David Mc- Conaughy,. District Secretary of the For- eign Board of the Presbyterian Church, wiH speak at this meeting. 1~'he students have the exceptional opportunity at this time o£ hearing three of the biggest men who are engaged in Christian service in this country today. In the past, speakers of national repute have been heard by a tnere handful of students, much to the etnbarrassment of the speakers. Let's all turn out Sunday and show Mr. Miller, who is an. old Union man, and also the other men, the proper respect due them. Every one out ! JUNIOR PROM. COMMITTEE·. At a meeting of the Junior class in the Chapel Tuesday noon, President Blodgett announced the members of the Prom. Com- mittee. These are: T. A. Dent, chair- man; H. D. Godfrey, G. V. VV. Wood, G. S. Flackney, W. C. Baker, K. E. Agan, F. L. Smith, D. A. Starbuck, C. H. Purdy, R. W. MacMiUan, C. Mahaney, R. B. Arthur and J. E. Turgeon. DR. LANDRETH RETAINED. Dr. Landreth, of the Engineering School, has been retained by the national govern- tnent as an e.ngineering expert in the prep- aration and trial of a case brought by the governn1ent against the Chicago drainage canal commission. T'he government wishes to 1 irnit the amount of water which can be diverted into the canal. Professor Land- reth is working hard on the case. A WALK-OUT? Scene-Dr. Hill's Economics class. T'ime-The day after the G. E. strike beKan. Dr. f-Till is discussing the strike in a

20 THE \C:ONC'ORDIENSIS lengthy and learned manner. He fina:lly h · h \ t · k \ but a says t at t, ere was no s n e, ·' , \walk-out\ by the union men. (Voice from the rear)-We're aU Union ·men; let's call a walk-out. The class immediately takes a bol*. Dr. Hill hasn't figured it out yet, ~can you? FROM 'CONC'ORDIENSIS, NOV._, 1'877. The excelient football elevens of the Junior and Sophomore classes * * * ought to be reorganized at once. In our opinion football is the best sport going. Military drill appears to have been abolished. We hope that it has, and that it will not be renewed. No scissors yet .. The freshman class numbers sixty-one. Sixty of the alumni and students died during the year '76-'77. The athletic games were attended by about four hundred people, including a few of Dorp' s fairest maidens. The gymnasium looks lively about these days. Mr Vandeveer is the right rnan in the right place, surely. That '80 Scientific * * * read, \Agricola taurum cornibus terebal,\ HT'he farmer was keeping the bull out of the corn.\ [Ed. note-These clippings are from the oldest Concordiensis.] NOVEMBER, 1878. One of the Juniors was found fault with, and very justly, for studying during chapel, * * and * * the attendant professors were lacking in reverence. There are now forty-three freshmen. A couple of \frosh\ were so anxious to make chapel that they went around on election day. Where is the decennial catalogue of the alumni of Union? One o:f our Juniors has recently suf- fered a severe loss and consequep.t i:llness. ''He had succeeded :in raising the founda- tion of a some-tina~e ,mustache~,. but on the advent of cold weat:ll.er the crop was blast- ed. [Ed. note-19l5, take warning.] Youthful tutor to newly-arrived frosh- \Have you made U{); your conditions yet?'' Freshie-''No; have you?\ \Funcis una curabat.\ Q:ne funeral cured him.-Ex. We acknowledge, the foliowing · (ex- changes): Amherst :Student, Harvard Ad- vocate, Yale Recor.d.,, Oberlin Review, Trin- ity Tablet, Chronic~e, Vidette, ·vindex, Dickersonian, Luf~onian, Southern c·olle- gian, Vassar Misctl:1any, Kenyon Advo- cate, and others. GARNB3' NEWS. The Garnet, which will be completed in the Spring, alr:ea.d y has a good start and quite a little material has been handed in, including the reports and write-ups on the Faculty and Trustees of the College. There is yet to <Jome the write-ups on the Juniors, and als<'l committees will soon be appointed in the different clubs and fraternities in order :tllat their material may be received. ·This year the Boilrd expects to run in an entirely new \bunch of snaps on the fellows, and the cuts will be different from any in previous :yeats. Abottt six short stories and one 1l()ng one will constitute the basis of the literary side of the new issue. Fellows having material for these stories and any snapshots of college life, or of anything of material jnterest ahout the cam pus are re<J:tlested to hand them to Faust, '1 5, at tile Alpha Delta Phi House before Christmas. The Juniors who have the matter in hand this year are a:S follows: Editor-in-chief, F:a.ust; Business Man- ager, Page; Assistaat Business Manager, Hughes ; Literary- Editor, Martin ; Art Editor, Keating ; Athletic Editor, Del- ..,· . -~ : ,,, I I - ' . ' '• t ·'·:! . , ,. r, ·> ···\' 1 •• :·1\. l ;:'·

,, I .. ,· . ·~ : ,,, ·'·:! . , ,. r, ·> ···\' 1 •• :·1\. l ;:'· 'THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 champs; Secretary, Brewster. Associate Editors: Bain, Hawn, Hunter, MacMillan, MandeviUe and Vosburgh. WHAT OTHERS ARE DOING. R. P. I. student parades can no longer pass through public drinking places. This was decided by a 314-139 vote, taken at a recent college meeting. Wesl,eyan has a new student from China, Cui, '16. He formerly attended Fouchow College. Cornell has a track squad of over 100. Yale has 3,263 enrolled students. Hereafter, 50 is the passing mark in the preliminary entrance :examinations at Wil-:;. Iiatns. Seventy-five per cent of the students of New Hampshire College are self-support- . tng. Williams College recently defeated Blackinton in a hard-fought soccer game -score 1-0. First call for basketball candidates has been issued at Williams. The Columbia-Pennsylvania dual track meet resulted in a defeat for Columbia, the score being 39 to 17. For the fourth year, a course in the study of the liquor problem with college credit is offered by the Economics Depart- ment of Iowa Wesleyan University. Wesleyan easily defeated Rutgers in an exciting football game by a score of 20 to 9. All underclass rushes, with the exception of the hat rush, have been abolished, for this year at least, at Rutgers. The Bensonhurst Field Club soccer team defeated the team representing Columbia by a score of 3-2. The game was marked by brilliant playing on both sides. The following clipping from the Wil- liams Record may interest our readers : Military ~raining for Students. As a result of the success last summer of the experimental training camps for col- lege men, the War Department has de- termined to organize at least four similar training camps next summer. At these camps such troops of the regular army as may be necessary and available at the time will be in attendance. The theoretical principles of tactics will be studied and explained in a series of informal talks, tactical walks and war games conducted by selected, competent officers. These principles will also be carried out in the field by the students themselves. The handling and working of the rifle and its proper use are also to be taught. Physical drill, marching, camp- ing, making and breaking camp, loading and unloading wagons, camp expedients, field cooking, camp sanitation, first aid to the injured, personal hygiene and the care of the person and troops in the field will be taught by practice. Informal talks by selected officers will be given on the following subjects: use and duties of the different arms and branches of the service, field fortification, military bridge building, use of explosives, the tactical organization of the military forces of the United States, the reason therefor and comparison with that of foreign armies, the food and military sup- ply of an army and its problems, the psychology of war, the true military his- tory of our country, and the military policy past and present. The camp will include a practice march of several days' duration, in which as nearly as possible such actual campaign conditions of march, bivouac and com bat will be followed as the assumed situation would exact. The War Department, it is understood, plans to have the site of one the the camps in New York State, probably in Jefferson County, another in Virginia, a third in the Middle West and a fourth on the Pacific coast.

i ' : l WBY W'ORRY About that Xmas. gift? Send her the \Concordy.\ The' gift will be entirely APPROPIATE and highly APPRECIATED-it will be welcomed as a weekly reminder of the giver. We secfJnd Fuller, \When thou makest pres· ents let them be of such things as may frequently refresh the memory of the . '~ receiver. We repeat-send her the \Concordy\ -let her catch the Union spirit now; in case of future need. As for that Fraternity Brother at a sister institution, or that friend back home, HE naturally EXPECTS a college man to send him the college paper. We are going to do some giving, too-we are giving a special reduction in price-one even dollar sends this gift to any address for the remaining two terms. A pleasing announcement bearing advise of gift, and names of giver and receiver will be mailed, if desired, to reach the subscriber Christmas morning. Our Xmas. hint-the CONCORDIENSIS, a phenominal publication, makes a pleasing present from the sapient student to his sire or siren. Take it. Concordiensis Christmas Subscription ••••• 6 • Ill • cl • • • • f • • • • • • 4 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .191 Please send the '' Concordiensis-' for the remaining two terlils of the college year 1913-14 to the following addresses. I hereby agree to pay the :tnanagement one {$1.00) dollar fot ea~h subscription. (Signed) ___ .._..._....__.._.........._ ............ .........._ ____ ............ ___ ....._.., ___ n· tr• Note----When Xmas. card is desired put an (X) before name. Send toM. P. Schaffer, Mgr., 924 Delamont Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. WHAT OTHERS SAY: \It is a pleasure for me to be able to sincerely congradulate you on the improved appearance -both typographically and in literary form-of the Concord· iensis. Your effott to make the 1913- 14 issues the best to date, seem. s<> far to have been successful ' ' De Witt Clinton, Librarian Union College ''The (~oncordiensis has many e::xcel~ent tm~rovements this year and gtves evtdence to the fact that the Editorial Board is work· ing hard to put out a newsx and interesting college weekly. ' The Schenectady Gazette

be as the • • Irtt • nd it. be in .. \ THE CON·CORDIEN:SIS OJ{Jt lfumptnn Alhattu THE :LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S 'HOSEIY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY AU styles and materials-C'otton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Sh~irts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of .satis:fie.d customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please co.nsider this a pe·rsonal invi- tation to call and be eonvinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y· ESTABLISHED 1850 11\. J. ID4nru 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. 23

' ~ i I I ! I I ' ' ' ; ! i i ' i i [ I I ~ \~ ' '' ' I ' '\ ! ! ! : '! I . :; • I' I, ' '' ' I • I • I I ; I :I ' ' I' i [' ! ' ' ' ' 24 THE C.ON:CORDIENSIS B4RNEY'S Where Everybody Shops Students will find· that they have every- thing at .... BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sche,.ectady 's (}reatest Stor, COLLEGE SHOES for COLLEGE BOYS AT EMERY'S Crossett Bench Made $5 and $6 Ralston Health Shoes $4 and $4.50 EMERY'S 429 State ·st. Schenectady V. E. Wheldem, Manager ----~--·---~- ---~- ------- -- ---~------ ------_-·------------- --~-. -:._----- Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. Yate's Boat House The Jarl!est and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection with house· - - • • - - 29 :Front Street Both Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing · - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Albany's Progressive Drug Store Morris Drug Co. 26-28 No. Pearl-St. Alhany Agency for Whitman's ins.a. tQt iurhrr •, . ., J ·• . \ ~ •i

·. '> j ,, \ ~ •i THE CONCORDIENSIS An Oil Heater is great for a chilly day. The perfection stove we .offer at $3.00 The Rayo Lamp wiH not smoke, gives a ·strong, bright light~$1..98 C;OFFI 1 N BROS. 303-305 S1'ATE STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gow-ns and Hoods J. 31. W4tarlt DELICATESSEN ''Joe·~' caters to the student. Break- fastbetween classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church To the American Colleges and Universities ~rom 'P 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty . HONE • 722 EA·STERN AVE. Vacuum CleanerS Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirta and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Higgins' ( DrawinQ Inka I Eternal Writin~ Ink: Ena!rossinQ Ink I Taurine MuciJaQe il Pb.oto Mounter Paste DrawinQ Board Paate LiQuid Paste l Office Paste Vea!etable Glues. etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and wi thai efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS &: CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Vistbn~ TEt.fPHoHt Oar'ds 26 '' w Weddtn~ Stationery 13ust ne s Cards-Letter Heads Class Pins -Mono~rams Crest-s., Coats \fArms etc. DESIGNEI\:3 .[ NGf\AVEJ\S SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY\

THE CONCORDlENSIS A R Z • . ' Q h' furnished rri.usic at Union College 1905., . . . - Ita s rc estra 'o6, '0'7, 'o3, '09, 'IO, 'II, '12 and 1913 Best Da,nce Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton .St., Albany HOTEL AND LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY RESTAURANT 0. D. Eveleigh OPTQ,MBTRIST ·Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. ·. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New· Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec- tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J 11tutnu N athtual iauk l!tt~ttttttallg. N.f. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent LYON 'S The Store With Over · roo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre .St. DANCING Waltz, Two Step, Three Step & Bluebell taught in One Term MODERN DANCING The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons guaranteed. FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancinat Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723·J Jrof. J. J. il(tlgullru For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Clasa Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Sujts, etc. D11nlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \C'ONCORDY•• ..... ,<: ), t; ...

THE CONCO·RDlENSIS THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orcheatral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Abo THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hoteb conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE • 'The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift ~~i-ving· purchases. Interior Decorating. :~WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. ,' 212 STATE STREET Schenectady The chances are 3 to 1 that that Snappy Overcoat was made by WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us ,call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J PATRONIZE YOUB' PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDlENSIS Warmth without weight outer coats. N·ow ·,is :the time feUows $25.00 to $75~oo J. J. HILLMAN 61 7 State Street Union Boys, The best paper for your correspondence is ''Midnight Oil'' CRANE'S LINEN LAWN· We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Is a Thing of the Past Union Seal, Garnet and Gold. The :Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The Gleason Book Co. · 104 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone· 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street The ciear white light of Mazda has revolutionized the study hour. If studying or reading is a pleasure, Mazda will in- crease this pleasure. If cramming is a drudgery, Mazda will lighten it. USE MAZDA LAMPS . Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED · TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coN CORDY'• ,, ! ' i ' ,. l !\ 1..·, I i-: I I t ,, ~. ' ~ ... ~ '\ . .; ; r• 'rl· ' ) • r .,

~~t :~ :z'· .. ' •\ ' ·::;; ,, I ' i ' ,. THE CONCORDIENSI S CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N. Y. MOE DEWILDE• Hatter aad Furnisher. T~unks and Leather Coods . 54 State St., Albany, N. Y .. METROP·OLITAN CL:BANERS & DYERS \We db it as you like to have it done\ O:ffice, 12 4 Vf as·hington Ave. Albany, N. Y. William j. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN·s CLOTHES Pian•o.s and Player Pianos. Victor Talkin~ Machines and iRecords. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 james Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 1\'o. P~arl St., Albany, N. Y. m~r C!tnlltgt 'riut &lfnp 44 Nn. ttltarl &trttt Alhaug. N. 1. \Root for Jack\ FISHER'S 2nd SHI~TS 50c 112 No. Pearl St. Albany \···. \ ; \Our Business is Growing\ ,..._,. t F . 'i· ·, I ., ·~· DANKER· 1~ i{ l ,~f: ·r ) ·\> Reliable Corsage Bouquets of '1.; ~r ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND G.ARDENIAS ) • r 40 a•d 42 Maid en Lane Alhon,, N. Y. ., PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONLZERS

!. ) I ( : I THE CONCORDlENSIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music Furnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET A complete department food atore The beat in everything for the table at the lowest caah pricea Quick - Active, - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros. • Sweaters Cigars Ice Cream Soda· St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles · 31 0 State Street, Schenectady Engleman & Bellinger PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A ••sQUA~E DEAL•• for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G Spaulding & Bros 126~128 Nassau Street • • • 520 5th Ave .• New York Send for Catalojfue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CON CORDY''

t· t,,, ·~:':•_ ~·k ,!; !., f r··· l '' ,. ' ' \'' f Home-made Candies and Ca & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 3 I Steuben Street, E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and medals. 109 No. Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- Students suffering from eye-strain and \ S. E. Miller's headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Opton1etrist 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, NG Y .. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany· GRANGE SARD, .. .. .. President T. I. Van ANTWERP, · Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec~y .-Treau.. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, - General Counael Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington Jla:lu 14uur{f Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • K. H. Solaghian Photographs ''While You Wait'' Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo - you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA TRONIZERS

. ' I :. '· / I : ' t I ' ' ,\ •j . I :' f . ·I ' ' ·t ,· ' ' . \ ' ' . ' I . : i .·• . I . I . ' i ' 'i ; ' ' / I Good ClOthes SAY MEN: yJ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx: Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and natural1y must sell the right kind of - ~ther things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ yve think you'lllike us alld our way of doing businesS. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press I. ,·

PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE '. '

I\ c· ' () !'.' .. UNION · UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D.e LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate : and graduate courses : 1. Cou.raea leading to tlte degree o.f A. B. CLASSIC.A~ CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Studeats may, at the dose of the Sopnmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They wiU then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. C~ur11e leadins to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-Scr~N'l'IFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin with()ut Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cou:r11e leadiDg- to the dea;'ree of B. 9. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. .&. Coo.rse leading to the degree of B. Eo GENERAL ENGINEERING Cou~tsE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the ~ciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELEC'tRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended t<> give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. c~uriles leading to graduate degreel!l. CouRSE LEADING To m~GREE o.F M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH. NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free ~ample of our spedal Cofl\ee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPART1viENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDJCAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. 0. 9 Registrar, Albany, N. Y. . DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. NEWTON FIICRO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: jOHN C. WATSON~ Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per tern1. For catalogue giving full in formation, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink'.s Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop· Just Across from the Green Gate S.A Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\•

THE CONCORDIENSIS UJ4t i;umptnu Alhauy THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS ;(N THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Merc,erize·d, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods ar.e right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. I. J. WQnru & ~nus JEWELERS Be SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET PATRONI2E YOUR PAPER\S PA.TROMIZERS ALBANY, N. Y.

I ( \ l i t. j; : I',' ' . I \ I r: ; I: I ;: I ~ t i Orders For . Bad-Fitting Clothes In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' Wh , '' . , ' · en you re · cramming for an exam- When yoa're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When yollr making up that ''condition''- Or when you're wrestling with the intra cies of \An '- After the 5team radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'l~ buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric • Company Schenectady, - New York Are Decreasing ~Men spend their money for made· to-order suits that fit. They find they are much cheaper in the end. There is a demand for better cus· tom tailoring. We meet it fully SMITH & CLUTE 1 CENTRAL ARCADE Hurley Shoes FOR MEN Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three . essentials to perfect footwear satis· fac~ion that every man hopes to get in 1he .shoes they buy- and which they do get when making their sel- ection from our stock of Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 and $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 273 State Street SA'Y YOU SAW IT lN THE \CONCORDY\• .. ~ !-( . ' ~ .: .. ~~

TH.:E CONCORDIEN:SlS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supp:l!ies .524 ;U,nion St., corner Barret Agency for P&cpe and Eagle Motorcycles ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VlOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREiET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 THAT IS R.IG.HT, REASONABLE A:ND ON TIME ~rijrurrtttlty Art 'rrss J, ~R, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys a1td solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry · 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady Get Tomorrow's Style To·day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes t()-day are those you will see to-morrow in ()ther Sltoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady The Newl311~- Von Ritter Company PRINT'BRS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets a11td Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a C()rnplete bindery equipment 149 Clinton. Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers im FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Cate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 4258·W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P ATRONI2'BR.S

f. 1 i i, l' r 1 · . ) f f ; : ... i' I 1 · l '. I '!: t I · I I: . I ). ' • I' ! I i 7 I; ; :: l ': ~ THE CON·CORDIENSIS Smart Overcoats -AT- F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mulli11 BABBITT'S ~uutt&<1tnmpnuy Never in our history have we prepared for your overcoat com- fort as we have this season. In our magnificent stock of high grade coats will be found the wonderful. ''Frankel Fifteen '' which have amazed the clothing world. These garments are considered to-day the utmost value for $15.00. OUR \ROGERS- P EET\ OVERCOATS Take the lead to day just as they always have done in the realm of the highest class clothing. These overcoats are made to meet the demands of the most exacting dresser. The particular college man will be pleased with our showing of fine coats. · Babbitt & Co. 451-453 Broadway ''Aihany's Greatest Clothers'' ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper ·52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW lT .IN TlfE ,.~ONCORDY•• . ' ' { '•·'

.·,··· . ' ' { '•·' THE CONCORDIENSIS Visit :Our We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our ;Guarantee STEJ;NWAY W'EBBR Victor Parlor Cluett & Sons AND PIANOLA PIANOS ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE SOS STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY. N. Y SOLE DOCTORS Its the soles of the people we keep in view, For we are the doctors of boot and shoe, And we serve the living and not the dead, With the best of leather, wa:x, nails and thread, We can sew on a sole, or nail it fast, And do a good job .and make it la~t. There is nothing snide about what we can do, Doubt not our statement for work proves it true. We can give you a lift too in this lire, Not only you, but your family and wife. A great many patients come to our door, Worn out and run down beside feeling sore. Though we don't poultice, plaster or pill, We cure all shoes, no matter how Bl. Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street Telephone 34-5 6 We have Clothed the Sons of •\OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADI~ER-ROCH ESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES ~ \lf It's Made of Rubber We Have It''' Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires Ul Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 23 Stores LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worm. All styles and leather• HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectlldy's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

• i ' . :: ): ,: i: . \': l Li ; ,. ,.,: :. I ;•:i. I , ~ l I: ~~ i ~ ' ; j ' ,·,: : i '. , ' t' : . l . ~·.! : I ii\l'l : 11 ~ I :: .: i :-:: .. ,: ;• ;, ·' ., ' . ~. ' ,• j ~ j ' .. ' . ' ' f ~ . ! \ I I THE C'ON:CORDlEN:SIS SPORTING GO,ODS BJ:G STORE-BIG STOCK We are Albany's Leading Distributors. Here .YOU will find the Ia~gest line of Sporting and ~t\thJetic ·Go·ods in Albany. Every article selected with care from the most popular lines;. Quality the best ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 an.d 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SO BELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~RN1!! 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~:~ ~~~~ D. B. pAIGE. Sitma Phi Ho11se. N£A'R BARNEY'S 11909078 11991134 Colle~e Representative Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 33 6 State Street ····-········· .•..•. @;21. no ata ARROW ~otchCOLLAR Cluett. Peabody a Co •• lne. Maker. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \~ONCORDY''

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 DECEMBER 11, 1913 NO.9 RESUME OF 'LHE CROSS-COUNTRY SEASON. The cross-country situation at the be- ginning of the coHege year was, indeed, a very serious one=' to both the coach and trainer. Four or last year's championship team had grad t~ated, and the fifth man could not run on_ account of an over-pres- sure of college W\ork. That left this task to Dr. Mac and Eddie Felthousen-to build an entire team out of new and in- experienced material-and it needs no ex- planation to see just how difficult a task it was. But when the first call for candidates was made, prospects seemed rather brighter than expected. ·Over twenty men, includ- ing several fres nrn en, reported, and, under the leadership and direction of the captain and coaches, cGnsistent training was begun imn1ediately. B.ttt after about two weeks the once go~d--sized squad had diminished to nine (the faithJul nine), who stayed out until the last day of the season. . Two runs were held, both of which were won by our opponents. The first with Colgate, over cur regular four-1nile course, vvas run under fhe most unfavorable con- ditions. It had rained for two days pre- vious to the ra.ce, and when the starter's pistol sent the men on their journey it was still raining-. This heavy rainfall made our rather level course almost a bed of mud in places. The Colgate men were better mud horses than we and won, 16- 39.\ Union was represented in this run by Captain Mudge, '14; Gunning, '15; New- ton, '16; Friday, '17, and Scoby, '17. One week later the same five men, with Sherman, '14, and Hoffman, '17, added, went to Williamstown, Mass., and over the four and one;half mile course met de- feat at the hands of the fast Williams team by the very close score of 26-29, in the fast time of 23 minutes 19 seconds. We were very greatly handicapped in this race by the fact that we were not used to a hilly course, such as the Williams one, and it was only by a heart-breaking fight that the n1en finished as wen as they did. ~he first mile was nearly all up hill, and Williams, having trained over these hills daily, ran away from us, so that at the end of this first n1ile :practically the en tire Union tea1n was a considerable dis- tance behind. But we came back with a strong fight in the remaining 3,% miles and~ as the score shows, came within 3 points of a victory. Had the run been over a fan1iliar course I think we could have defeated them. They admitted, after- ward, that it was their familiarity with the hills of the course that won for them. The improvement in t!?-e condition of the n1en was very noticeable, indeed, even that since the run with Colgate, and it is the best

'i i i l \ I . i ! 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS praise that can be given the coach and trainer. Had it not been for this fine physical condition the men could never have recovered themselves after the first mile and made the fight they did. Now, the most important thing is the prospects for next year. Only two men will be lost by graduation. Captain Mudge and Sherman, and with the remaining five \Dr. Mac\ will have a splendid working basis, a nucleus around which he can build a team of men who will bring honor, not only to themselves, but to their Alma Mater. A cross-country team can not be made in one season, no 11101 e than can a foot- ball tean1 Experience is absolutely neces- sary, and more than that, it is indispen- sible. Every man on the ieam gave thf .. very best he had t') g1ve, all that was in him, but, as the results show, it was not quite good en0ugh. I would like to t~~ke this opportunity to eommend the con:;istent work of the scrubs throughout · th~ yeat:. especially- ti1at of Wadsworth, '1·~. and Rollins, '16, and also wish \Dr. Mac\ and his men next year the best of success, and hope they will do what we failed to do this fall. WILLIAM A. MUDGE, Captain. ENGLISH CLUB. Although as yet no definite program has been arranged, the English Club expects to take up the subject of Drama in its work this winter. The first paper of this series was read by Doctor Stewart at the meeting held Dec. 5th; the subject being 11 lbsens' Ghosts.\ At a meeting of the English Club held Nov. 21, Dr. Marsh presented a paper on Kipling. The next meeting of the club wi~l be either Dec. 19th or Jan. 9th, the date as yet being undecided. At this meeting, Hawley, '14, will present the second paper on Ibsen, which will be a discussion of his weU-known play, ''The Doll's House.'' UNION THIRTY -SIX YEARS AGO. \We solemnly protest against the re- moval of the milch kine from the college pasture. We miss tb.e pleasant sound of the milk streaming into the wash~pitchers at all times of the night, while occasionally you could distinguish the voice of the milker, reciting select passages from pro- fane history, as a well-directed kick cansed him to relinquish his hold and pick up himself and the shattered pitcher from. the l~cteons rnin around ~.Jim. i'J ovv it re- quires five able-bodied men to milk a cow properly. One creeps up and wakes the l'critter'' from Per p!ac1d s~urnber, a~1d seizes her by one horn ; two more come up and lay hold respectively (not respectfully) of the other horn, and the caudal appen- ~age; another proceeds to the active duty of drawing the milk, while the fifth keeps off and guards against the interruption of officious intruders. 1filking here re- quires experience and decision.\ TWENTY -FIVE YEARS AGO. \In a recent issue of the New York Mail and Express there was an article about famous college classes. In this it makes prominent mention of the class of '20 at ~ nion, of which nearly every one of the seventy-four men rose to a high position ~n J;fe. In this class were such men as ;-Jr. Potter, Dr. Hickok, William H. Se- ward and the famous scholar, Taylor Le·\tvis.\ Young Ladies' College. Prof.: 41 What can you tell of Pluto?\ Miss D. : \He was the son of Satan, and when his father died he gave him Hell.\ _., i .,

_., i ; .~ l ' '\ THE CONCORDIENSlS ll FINAL EXAM. SCHEDULE. 9 A.M. 2 P.M. 9 A.M. 9 A.M. 2 P.M. Wednesday, Dec. 17. Senior Latin. Differential Equations. Economics (A cad. and option B) . Junior Greek B. History (Soph. Acad. and Jr. option B). French (Fresh. A cad.) German (Fresh .. Acad.) Sophomore B. E. Mechanics. Freshman B. E. English. Mathematics (Jr. A. B. and Soph. B. S.) Junior English, 4. Sophomore Latin. Freshman Greek Senior E. E. Design. Junior E. E. laboratory. Thursday, Dec. 18. History of Philosophy. Junior English, 6. Sophomore Physics (A cad.) . '\lgebra. Freshman Latin. Economic Geology. Junior B. E. Chemistry. Senior E. E. Theory. Sophomore B. E. Calculus. Senior Greek fHouon,). American History (J untor A cad.) Junior French. Sophomore Hygiene. Junior E. E. Mechanics. Friday, Dec. 19. Comparative Politics. Mathematical Physics. Junior English, 5. Logic. Sophomore Analytics. Freshman Acad. English. Junior B. E. Mechanics. Sophomore B. E. Chemistry. Freshman B. E .. Int. German. History of Education. Sophomore Acad. English. Railroad Con~truction. Heating. Senior E. E. laboratory: Junior B. E. and E. E. American History. Freshman B. E. Physiology. Saturday, Dec. 20. 9 A. M. Advanced Psychology. • 9 A.M. 2 P.M. General Chemistry. Argumentation. Biology (Soph. B. S.) Sophomore Greek A. Sophomore Greek B. , Senior Law. Senior B. E. and E. E. Eco- . nomtcs. Topographical Surveying. Junior E.E. Hydraulics . Sophomore B. E. English. Freshman B. E. Trigonometry. Monday, Dec. 22. Senior English, 7. Sociology . Mathematics (Sen. A. B. and Jr. B. S.) Junior Latin. ~1ineralogy. Sophomore Acad. Int. French. Freshman Acad. Hygiene. Stresses. Highways. Junior E. E. T'heory. Sophomore B. E. Physics. Freshman B. E. Drawing. Senior Greek B. Organic Chetnistry .. Laboratory Physics. Qualitative Analysis. Biology (Medic.) Senior E. E. Seminar. Freshman B. E. Elem. French. Freshman B. E. Int. French. Tuesday, Dec. 23. 9 A. M. Senior Greek A. Senior lt~rench. Junior Gern1an.

\ ' ! j I' TH!E :QONCORDIENSIS Junior Greek, A. Elementary German. Mathematics (Freshman,! A. B. ; Ph. B.) State ~Committee, Pan-American Exposi- tion; delegate to the Democratic National Convention from 1880-1884, and a member of the State Lunacy Co·mmission in 1902. Following is an extract from his letter to President Richmond, giving the condi-· tions governing the scholarship: Motors. Sophomore Surveying. 2 P.M. Advanced Argumentation .. Quantitative .Analysis. Sophomore Int. German. UNIO:N ALUMNI ESTABLISH TWO NEW SCHOLARSHIP FU~lDS. President Richmond Returns From Ex .. tended Western Trip, Reporting Loyal Spirit of Our AlumnL President Richinond's message to the student body on returning frot:n his ex- teeded Vvestern trip was one of vital in- terest to all Union men, poth aJJtclergrad- uates and alumni. The news that t\vo new scholarship funds had been esta nlished was brought direct to the students, in. that they are most interesterl. President R.t.chmond)s trip carried him as far west as Minneapolis, and everywhere he was met by toyal Union a.l umni, who showed a splendid spirit of \In pursuance of our conversation of this morning, I have this day forwarded to Frank Bailey, the treasurer of Union College, ten bonds of the value of $1,000 each of the International Traction Com- pany. These bonds ar.e given to Union. College to be held in perpetuity by the trustees thereof for the purpose of honor- ing and perpetuating the memory of my father, Daniel N. Lockwood, who was graduated 1rom Union College in the class of 1865. ;rhe interest frorr. these bonds is to be applied to scholarships to be known as the 'Daniel N. Lock,vood C)c holarsh :ps.' 'I'hese scltolat ships ai e to regard .for their Alma Mater. At a dinner of the Chicago J\l1urtni As- sociation, that organizat;on voted to estab- lish a Chicago scholarship, by vvhich one man will be sent to Union ann.naJly from be awarded on the basis of competitive examinations to be held each year in the city of Buffalo, and, in the award, prefer- ence shall be given to contestants from Erie County, New York, who desire to attend Union College. I wish to leave it optional with your board of trustees as to the number of scholarships to be formed from the yearly income of these bonds. In case there are no contestants from the city of Buffalo, who wish to attend Union Col- lege, the income may be used for such gen- eral purposes as your board of trustees that city. 'The second gift was that of ~10,000 in bonds for the establishment of a Buffalo Scbolarship Fund, the donatio11. being that o~ Thomas B. Lockwood of B.uffalo, in memory of his father, Daniel N. Lockwood, of the class of 1865. The latter played a prominent part in the acti-vities of the Alumni Association, both at Buffalo and Washington. He was a member of the fofty-fifth, fifty-second and fiftr-third Con.,. gresses ; United States Attorney- -for .North- ern New York; President ot the New York may direct .. \Yours very truly, \'rHOMAS B. LOCKWOOD.\ The average man's arm is thirty inches long; the average woman's waist is thirty inches around. 0, nature, how wondrous art thy worksft -Tiger. /·· . ', : ~ :·,

e e it /·· . ', : ~ :·, '1HE, CONCORDIENSIS 13 THE CHATHAM CONCER'r-WHY,? Billy Mudge Discovers a · Littie Village Teeming With Pretty Girls and Rhythmic Raggers. Once upon a time Rill 1\J.Iudge was read- ing over his schedule of glee club concerts. ''Pretty good schedule,\' he thought to hirn~elf. ''Yes, sir, it's a mighty-but wait a Jninute Here's one more date that ought to be filled,\ and he put his .fiinger on the sixth of December. ., 'Must find an ideal place for this one,\ he tho·ught. \Must have ideal girls and ideal-· er-well, ideal girls.\ So out he started in search of the ideal city. rr e V\·alked and \,\, alke.!-past Albany, past Troy, over plains and deserts, around snow-capped mountains and through deep valleys, over rivers and lakes and ice- bergs, until the fruitless search was abruptly ended by his catcJ1ing a foot in the Massachusetts state line and landing prinrtrily 0n his nose. 1It.. aro'3C quite' profanely, looked ahont hi l.TI,, and then his heart, turning over two or three tin1es so as to get a good running start, jumped lightly up into his mouth a.nd had to be re-swallowed like one does an egg when the chapel bell rings. They- say Bill has a mighty good eye for feminine beauty, whether it be dancing in a calci urn light or milking a cow. Surely ke must have encountered a wonderful SJ?ecimen, for he tells us that inside of three rninutes he had ~ignec up the nearest soc-:al center for the evening of December sixth. fience-the Chatham concert. Damrosches' symphony look weak beside them. The soloists have already been signed up for big-time vaudeville next sun1mer, while \Stan\ Smith has developed such aesthetic grace in leading the 1nen with his upper lip that he's the rage of the feminine world. Any old day he could walk right off the campus and marry a girl worth two hundred or so. As for the concert itself, the men were treated royally, the program was \rendered\ in its habitual gratifying custom, and, as far as we know, none of the men slept under the Anh:!user-Busch that night. ENGINEERING NOTES. A ne-vv 23-horse-power motor has lately arrived :1t the e1ectrical engineer1ng build- ing from the _General Electric Works. '1 he machine is large and n1odern and is a good addition to the other apparatus in the building. The shop wiring will be completed in a week or ten days, when all the shop tool~ will run electrically. The senior engineers are preparing for their spring term theses, an important part of their work. THE DRAMATIC CLUB. My \Concordy\ assignment this week was ''200 or so vvords on the ·Chatharn con- cert.\ Suppose I sho·uld proceed to ex- pound on \the usual pleasing manner in vvhich each number was rendered,\ but the lid was shut down on this expression just after the preceding numbe.r came out. Suffice it to say that the olubs have now round~d into such form that they breeze through their numbers with such decision and dispat~h as would mal<e even Walter On Wednesday evening last, the mem- bers of the last year's caste held a short meeting in the Chapel. Plans for a new play and for procuring a coach were talked over. As it is not yet known whether or not the club will be allowed to play out of town, nothing definite vvas decided. \Vadswot~th: '14, and Baker, '15, were ap ... pointed a committee to consult Dr. Rich- mond and Dr. Hale, the faculty adviser, on the subject. If possible the play will be given in the new gym during Junior Week. In the near future a meeting will be called to discuss the practicability of giving the play in conjunction with the musical clubs.

··'' •I 1 ' ' ! . ; :. ; ! . i i . ' l ! I I . I ) ! . 14 THE c·oNCORDIENSlS FRESHMEN DEFEAT JUNIORS. Fast Work in Last Half Takes the Game _;Seniors Also Lose. In the fastest of the interclass games yet seen, the freshmen defeated the juniors Thursday, December 4, by a score of 23 to 17. The game \vas fast throughout and was featured by close guarding. This was especially noticeable in the case of Star- buck, who held Haubner down in clever style. The first half ended 9-9, but to- w·aru the end, baskets by Haubner and Roof put the freshmen in the lead. The line-up: 1917 Baskets Naylc1n 1 ~. F .... , . . . . . . . . . . ......... 1 liaubner, L. F. (3 fouls) ............... 4 Jone~, G-it.dma~, C ..................... 3 G. Roof, R. G ........................... 2 G. Scoby, L. G ......................... 1 Baskets 1915 Turgeon, R. F .......................... 1 Byron, L. F. (1 foul) ................... 2 C. Faust, C. (2 fouls) .................. 1 Starbuck, R. G .......................... 2 ll unter, I.,. G ........................... 1 Union College has donated a cup for the team first winning the championship of the Northern Inter-scholastic League. This league is composed of Glens Falls, Hudson Falls, Fort Bdward and Green- wich. This act should serve to advertise Union in a territory from which we draw & large number of students. Seniors Lose to Juniors, 23 to 9. Tuesday, December 2, the second game of the interclass series took place at the armory and resulted in the downfall of the senior~. From the very start 1915 played rings around the seniors and scored at will. \Heine\ Faust, with his long legs and four baskets, led the scoring. The score: 1914 Baskets \'vos.burg C. . ........................... 0 Story, R. G. (Capt.) .................... 1 Hagar, L. G. . ............................. 0 Baskets 191'5 Starb U'ck, R. F ........ , ................. 2 Byron, L. F. (1 foul) ................... 1 Fau·st, C .................•......•.•... 4 Hunter, Hughes, R. G .................. 1 Turgeon (Capt.), Boy,ce, L. G ........... 3 Referee-D. Beaver. Tim~ekeeper-Houghton. 1915 CLAIMS THE \BEST EVER.\ Just a word to the fellows about that c·oming Junior \Prom\ ! Now is the time to save the pennies to go to a dance that you will never forget, and this wili be the \best ever.\ This year Junior Week will be a distinc- tive college function. The new \gym\ will be the scene of the gay festivities, marking a new epoch in Union's social life. You wan~ to be there! If you are not there do not feel sore afterwards, but make sure of overco1ning whatever t.hsappointment you tuay have by eliminating the cause. That tucans go to the '' Prqrr/' and always be happy. Besides, bovs, you remember the girl back in the ''old home to~·n.·' Just ask her and see if she will say \No.\ \Oh Charles, it is so good of you.\ There, what did I tell you? So long. Mr. 1915. First Dame: \What did you do when Mr. Kenworthy got fresh the other night?'' Second Chicken: \Oh! I sat down on him.\ '16 (going home for Xmas): \What! A dollar and a half for an upper? I only paid a dollar last year.\ Ticket Agent : \1 know, but you see there has been an increase in the berth rate c:: h E' rm a 11 , R. F. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ·. . . . 1 Mudge, L. F. ( 1 foul) ................... 2 since then.\ . ! ; '

d '• :·:·~ . · i ·~ '\ ' ·} ' .i . ! ; . THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 IDOL HAS NEW TH.RONE. a gentleman in view to give the lecture. A proposal was :set forth that the ·club should visit the ''House of Panza,\ in Sara- toga, some time in the future. The old Idol, the revered diety of every freshman class, has left his .old dingy sur- roundings and has taken up his abode in a new place, behind the new gyn1nasium. The change is a good one and it certa~inly is fine to see Union's patron saint treated with some slight respect. For years Union men have deplored the £act that His High- ness was forced to remain in a dirty, insig- nificant, out-of-the-way spot, where his sur- roundings were more befitting a native of Pluto's realm than a benign old saint who, every year, received the loving caresses of frightened, yet adoring, Frosh. It remained for Prexy Richmond to bring about the change, and to him we owe our thanks for at last giving our old idol a place worthy of H~s Royal Awfulness. He is now surrounded by an open space, where fresh- nlen and sophomores may contend for the honor of first applying paint to his hideous physiognomy, while ample room has been provided for the roaring furnace into which rebellious freshmen will be hurled as sacri- fice to their saint. Union has not always been proud of her Idol, but she is today, and the \studes\ are glad that He has been at last officially recognized. Long live our patron saint! CLASSICAL CLUB PLAY? The last meeting of the Classical Club for this term was held Tuesday evening, December 4. DeForest, '16, read an in- teresting paper on \Quo Vadis,\ after which followed a general discussion of the subject by members of the club. R. E. Taylor, '16, read a translation of part of a scene from \The Clouds\ of Aristophanes. The club plans to give this in Greek some time in the winter term. A discussion was then held to formulate plans for next term. A lecture on \\Pompeii,\ illustrated by lantern slides, \vas favorably consider-ed. Dr. Kellogg has At the previous meeting of the club C. Foster Brown read a highly entertaining and interesting paper on \The Captives\ of Plautus, as given at Hamilton College last June. The hints and suggestions contained will be of great help to the Sophomore Latin students, if they give the projected play of Plautus' '''Menaechmi.\ BLACK CAT CLUB. During the Fall term the members of the Blac~ Cat Club have greatly enjoyed several short talks which members of the faculty have given them in their bi-monthly meet- ings. During the Winter term several talks from men of affairs will be given before the club and a very interesting schedule is ex- pected by the members. ' To make sure that the activities of the club should not interfere with the extra scholarship work of the closing term, it has been agreed that only one meeting shall be held between Thanksgiving and ·Christmas vacations . HEARD AT THE ARMORY. \Cover up,\ said the basketball fiend, as two dames passed the locker room. Billy Mudge (in chem. lab. He thinks he has discovered his unknown substance): \I've determined my unknown-it's zinc.'' Pink vVhiskers: \Wrong.\ Billy: \-! ! x x x-\ Pink: \Wrong again.\ Zig: \I certainly had some luck last night. During the evening I held half a dozen 'Pianola' hands. Art : \ 'Pianola' hands ? What do you mean by 'Pianola' hands?\ Zig: \Why you boob, hands that any- one can play~\

' t I I I ! ' l l i ' ' ' ' . : 'I , ,\ '' : I l j ' l . l i ' ' ' I I 16 THE CONCORDIENSI~ THE CONCORD lENS IS younger members of the institution. We have this spirit in our alumni body. It is ::t.Z A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNtON COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Secon.d: Class Matter. EDIT'OR-IN-CH[EF H. Herman Hitchcoc\k '14, Ddta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, ltaymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '~5; H. N. Hubbs, 'rs; E. R. Hughes, 15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchun;, '16; R. E. Taylor=' ' 16; L. R. VanWert, 16. Morris P. Schaffer, '14, BU:siness Manager, 924 Delan1oRt Ave. Ka-rl E. Agan, 'J>S, Asst. Basiness Manager, Delta Upsilon Hoase. Publication Office : ScHENI~C'l'ADY ART PRESS 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. · THE ALLISON-FOO'I'E DEBATE. Tomorrow n igh.t our debating season will be formaU.y opened by the Allison- Foote debate. 'Union feels a great pride in the debating teams, which have repre- sented her in the past, and it is much to her credit that she has given debating the place in college actiyities which it now holds. If there is one thing above all others which does distinguish an institution and does make it stand out prominently among other institutions of its kind, it is the l?yal ty which th.a t institution shows to its activities. Loyalty in the alumni body means backing- and inspiration to the n1anifesting itself in every branch of activ- ity toward the college in which our alum~i are allowed to enter. They are backing our athletic interests and aspirations, not only by helping us to realize a new gym- nasium, but by adding their interest and encouragement to the work we accomplisb. along athletic lines. Therefore, loyalty 1n our undergraduate body is no less a necessity, for the realiza- tion of the hopes we have for Union, than it is in our alumni body. We must remem.- ber that loyalty to the debating teatns does not mean that every student should neces- sarily join one of the debating clubs or be definitely active in debating work, but it does mean that every Union tnan should do everything that he can to back these teams with his support. What we mean by support is personal recognition of the service which these n1en are rendering our institution. The sa1ne position must be taken in re- gard to our debating activity as is taken in reference to all our athletic activities. Those men who have debating ability and who can possibly get out should work with the debating squad; for we raust keep in n1ind that the debating team must have strong debaters to contend with here in college if it is to be prepared to represent U nio11's best against other colleges. On the other hand, those of us who are unable, for any reasons, not to give the team active support by our presence on the squad, must s11p:.. port the teams with encouragement and appreciation from the side lines. On the campus and in the chapel tomorrow we

t p. ..... ( I I er p:.. THE CONCORDlENSIS 17 can show our loyalty by our presence. We all know that loyalty is not generally accomplished by lying ba'ck on ''flowery beds of ease.\ vVhere true loyalty exists there will always be found some degree of sacrifice. But that sacrifice is the thing which makes loyalty such an effective ele- ment in our college life. 'fhe alun1ni make certain sacrifices when they spend their time and money to support the col- lege jn those ways in which they are able, but they are th.en justly proud when the college is successful in its purposes. So, we must make certain sacrifices to our activities in proportion to our individual abilities and opportunities, if we are to have the right to be justly proud of their accomplishments. Remember the debate tomorrow night, and remember also that nothing does more to put spirit into anything we undertake here or anywhere else than loyalty. THETA LAMBDA PHI TO BE KNOWN UNDER NEW. NAME. At a recent convention held in Chicago the Theta La1n bda Phi Fraternity consoli- ddted with the Alpha Kappa Phi and Delta Phi Delta fraternities under the name of Delta Theta Phi. The Union Chapter of Theta Lambda Phi will therefore hereafter be known as a chapter of Delta Theta Phi. U. C. C. A. NOTES. Sunday's Vesper Service was held in the College Chapel and was devoted to the subject, HThe United Missionary Cam- paign.\ Secretary Male placed the charge of the meeting in the hands of Rev. E. W. Miller, D. D., an alumnus of Union College of the class of 1887. Dr. Miller is the hon1e secretar)r of the F. B. R. C. A. Short talks were also given by .Rev. W. I. Cham- berlan, D. D., district secretary of the F. B. R. C. A., and by Mr. David Mc- Conaughy, general secretary of the Foreign Board of the Presbyterian Church. These men sought to lay stress upon the college man and the missionary, and to promote and advance every interest and activity that might exist an1ong the college men re- garding the missionary enterprise. The Association is working to send two undergraduate delegates to the Kansas City Convention, besides the one whom the student body will send. A cabinet meeting was held in Silliman HalJ on 1·Ionday evening. T·he reports of different committees were heard and the plans for the Kansas City Convention for the Student Volunteer Association were discussed more fully. Carroll Gunning, '16, was elected to represent the Christian Association at the Convention, and Secre- tary Male vvas also named as a delegate . There is a possibility that another under- graduate 1nay be sent, but lack of funds seems to make this doubtfuL As the mat- ter now stands, R. S. Blodgett, '15; W. C. Gunning, '16; C. T. Male, '13, and Mr. Taylor will represent Union at the .Con- vention. The last Vesper Service of the term will be held Sunday afternoon in Silliman I-Iall. Dr. A. R. Brubacher, Superintend- ent of Schools of Schenectady, will be the speaker. This will close the term for the Christian Association and they want to have a good bunch of fellows out to hear Dr. Brubacher. He is always interesting and worth hearing. Mary's ski~t was trim and tight, But she slit it right in half, So all the fellows on the street Could see the \fatted calf.\ Ex.

·, !: jl ' :! l: ! .• ; 1 -:·I· ', l I_ :: I , 1 ~ 'HI I : : \: • I ~; 1· ) j J f' l ~ ' l ~ ~ 1 '': 1 t~'! .,., :t! ,;: ! ., ::1 i ·1 ~~ I 't II :. ; . ' ·[ 'l I ~ • i i : '·j': ; ! . I I I ' I :' I·, \' . I' 'I: I i 'II! l i .f i! I I i: I' I. I 1 , l' I l'i ':. i ! i !l. I ' ; . i ; ~ ' l .' . '' : J I ) 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS I CSC -::.- ' Da, McGREGOR-DoN'T TELL ME ANYTHING ABOUT GERTIE HoFFMAN FRESHIVIAN PHYSIOLOGY CLASS. Scene : A large classroom filled with notebook-armed studes. 'fime : An eight o'clock. Dr. McGregor (standing in front of class) : \This morning we'll have an oral test. Now all you fellows remember that I mark very strictly according to your grammatical constructions. I also pay much attention to your intonation and de- livery. I have arranged with the English Department to have these tests counted as part of your rhetoric. There is a dicta- graph attachment here· by which your answers will be transmitted to a phono- graph in the second floor of South College. On this phonograph is a recording needle and disk to take down your recitations. Now, Johnson, take a deep breath, stand with your arms at your sides, and tell me in plain idiomatic English about the pro- £ d . . \ cess o tgestton. (He presses the dictograph button.) Johnson: \Why-er-the first step in digestion is now eating.. When you eat food it now passes into your mouth and you-----er-now-eat food.\ Dr. McGregor; \What about chewing, Johnson?\ Johnson: \The now food is broken up into tninute parasites by the action of the selinah. 1 ' Dr. McGregor: u\Vell, that answer might be better-96 per cent. Hawkshaw, stand up straight-you;re all bent (Hawk- shaw straightens up). That's the way. I hate to see anything crooked around me. Now tell us about what change takes place in the epiglotis ?\ Hawkshaw: \Hot .:tir is changed to talk.'' Dr. McGregor: \Very good. Does this always occur?'' Hawkshaw: \Not always. Sometitnes

S h . . t\ no c ange 1s apparen . Dr. McGregor: ''That's· right-96 per cent. Sit down. Macintosh, what is the effect of too much clothing? Tell us some authorities for your statement?'' .1\facintosh: \Too 1nuch clothing is very, very bad. Miss Gertrude Hoffman hasn.'t had a cold for ten years, and she-\ (Hisses, cat-calls, groans from the class. Cries of \Yes Yes-· go on !\) Dr. McGregor: \Don't tell me anything about Gertie Hoffman, boy. Proceed.\ Macintosh: \The reason for the ill- effects of too much clothing is that it obstructs the air. If the air is shut out . by non-conducting clothes a vacuum ts formed and we blow up.\ Dr. McGregor: \Very good. What is a secretion?\ Macintosh : \A c;ecretion is something which somebody tells somebody else when they shouldn't tell anybody.\ Dr. McGregor: \Ah-that's a moral se- cretion. How about physical ones?\ Macintosh: \Why-they are caused by strong winds and usually rise in the west, traveling over the desert at a stupendous rate of speed, sweeping everything before it and -\ Dr. McGregor: \Yes yes-go on!\ Macintosh: \-and finally bursting up- on the weary traveler with the greatest vehemence.\ Dr. McGregor: \Very fine; remember those words and make an oration of them two years from now-96 per cent. Skin- ner, what action do the enzymes have on food. Remember the use of clear idiomatic English.\ Skinner: \These rash little adventurers lurk behind the tonsils and rush forth when least expected. In the twinkling of an eye they change all hydrogen, glycerine, oleo- margarine and carbons to macaroni in the mouth.\ Dr. McGregor : \What is the next pro- 19 cess in digestion?\ Skinner: \The fttgitive food is next overtaken by the philharmonic juice and by that is resolved into its exponent parts -utor, fruor, fungor, potior and vescor.\ Dr. McGregor: \96 per cent. Mr. James, name various kinds of baths?\ James: \Milk-sops dips, sponges, soaks, and sedative or paralysing baths.\ Dr. McGregor: \Very good. Now tell us what are the colloids?\ James: \I decline to answer.\ Dr. 1tlcGregor: \Quite right. You're a very moral young man-96 per cent. No~ the class will rise and repeat after me ~he pledge.\ (Class rises and repeats in chorus.) Class: \We now at the close of this test do state that we have neither given nor received first aid in the course of this examination, that we have taken our cold bath this morning, and shall endeavor to chew each particle of food at lunch at least sixteen tin1es, and -vve state that we have neither any bicloride of mercury nor par- ticles of bituminous coal concealed about our persons.\ Dr. ~rcGregor: \Class is dismissed.\ COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. On Wednesday evening, December 10, Effendi Mehamed I{ani, of Constantinple, lectured for the Cosmopolitan Club His subject was the war between Tur- key and the Balkan States. Effendi Kani was an officer in the Turkish army during the war, and as such was able to pres- ent a very interesting and first-hand ac- count of the war. At a meeting in the near future a num- ber of new members will be elected frotn the freshman class . An advertisement in the Cornell Daily Sun reads, \Overalls for Poultry.\ This modesty movement has gone too far.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS ANGELS-MALE OR FEMALE? After Five Weeks oi Nerve-Racking In- vestigation Our Reporter Tells His Astounding Story. Prexy, Chapel and the New Lights All Are Important no way of telling. Eut, at any rate, Presi ... dent Richmond has solved that important question. Which brings us around to the new lights in ChapeL Recently it was decreed by the ,fates (\Sic Volvere Parcas,\ with apologies to Mr. P. Virgilius Maronis, the well- known novelist) that everybody should pray with their eyes shut. The old lights were ·SO strong and shone so brightly in everyone's face tha.t everyone had to shut their eyes- anyhow to rest them. But Dr. Richmond has insta.Jled a new system of globes suspended from the ceiling, so now students and faculty can elect prayers, with or without optical assistance. This applies :for all four classes and went into Factors. Ancient monks, they say, were gifted arguers. When they were not praying or drawing pretty pictures in heavy books- those pictures looked just like Mogul cigar- cite advertisements, only not so well done -they were arguing. Once in a while they ate and told their beads. What they told their beads no one knows. It was probably about compulsory chapel; but, at any rate, the principal and best little thing they did was argue. A great thing to argue about in those days was whether angels were male or female. Since no one of those monks had (as yet) seen any authentic angels or talked to one, there was no way of telling. So they would argue. One theory wa~ that Gabr1el must be a man because he talkec! rough and blew a cornet. No one eve;· hc::t.t·d a lady blow a cornet except in vat~deville. But that argument didn't count, after all, Gabriel wasn't an angel- he was an archangel. An archangel is a sort of foreman or a· Past Grand Master Angel, who rides in the first coach at lodge funerals and wears a high hat Election day. Then they'd argue about Hell-but that's neither here nor there, as Darby 0' Gill effect last week. One of the three lights, you may notice, is hung just above the pulpit. This light sheds strong radiance u pan the wall be- hind. Rumor has it that Dr. Richmond, in his usual canny manner, had an Ulterior Purpose behind the hanging of that light. Rumor states that it was so placed even- tually to shine upon the face and figure of Prexy's revered predecessor, Eliphalet N ott-or rather upon the full-length por- trait of the revered Eliphalet which now hangs in the gloomy confines of the Library. '!·hence it will be resurre.cted and given the place of honor behind the pulpit. It will then look down like some old Ro- man diety from the Inner Shrine upon the worshipping faces of young barbarians. used to say. One thing they may have argued about was whether it was easier to pray with one's eyes shut or ·Open. No records have been kept of such a discussion, so there is After all, Prexy N ott is only coming in- to his own again, :for once before he hung there-and thereby hangs a tale. Once upon a time (that sounds unrea- sonable, but it wa.s, as a matter of fact, ., ,. '1 ., ' '. ~ ·. ': 1,,_

s, . 1S pit. the . tn- rea- '· '' ,· '~ ··~ •,J ·( i .:.~ i ':~ ' ' ~ j ·~ ~ .~~ . ~;· t . ··.::;: r{ ... { ,( ,, ., ,. ,, ., ' ., ·. ': 1,, \; 1 THE CON:CORDIENSIS 21 £rom 1903 to 1909) there was a certain Assistant Treasurer at Union whose name was C. B. Pond. C. B. Pond was a large hearty man with. an ornate face that re- sembled Punch. ff,e was a boisterous, blustering sort of man with Great Thoughts. He was strong for Boosting Union and Internal Improvements. He had a great thought with respect to the por- trait of dear old Eli:Phalet which then hung snakes out of Erin .. But (to return to the original proposil\\ tion) rumor has it that the well- known E. N ott's portrait will soon be returned to. its original position upon the chapel walls, vvhere . students may now pray with their eyes open or shut (Freshman, Sophomore; Junior, Senior Electives). From this we infer that angels are fetni- nine (Reductio ad Absurdum). Q. E. D. on the front wall of the Chapel. C. B. Pond revered Dr. N ott, but he loved angels. (You see, we've gotten back to the monks again.) He wasn't quite sure whether ·union was a cloister or a college, but he decided to find out. Salathe: \How can you detect the pres- ence of hydrogen sulphide?;' So, upon a day, he re·moved the picture of the well-known :prexy and (just at that time electric lighting \\Vas being installed at college) suspencled a large number of strong lights upon the front wall where the portrait had hung. Then with great care he suspended in front of those lights a large, heavy stained-glass window with the effigy of a young angel upon it. When the lights behind were lit the ef- fect vvas astounding. Now by all this I don't mean to infer th~t Mr. C. B. Pond was a holy man or in any way related to the monks; but evi- dently besides the Great Thoughts in re- gard to Boosting Union and Internal Improvements he must have had a passion- ate desire for knowledge as to whether angels were male or female Now if angels are female if would never do to have an angel in Chapel. Respect for ladies and Fred Dawson's anatomical remarks before football games can't be reconciled. So soon afterwards young Saint Archibald was relegated to the cel- lar below the Chemical Lab., where he has since been chasing out good old Hydrogen Sulphide just as Saint Patrick chased the F h \'I t. t\ ros · : ns tnc . B·RUNET TO RUN SOIREE. Meade 'C. Brunet, '16, was appointed chairman of the Sophomore Soiree commit- tee at the p1eeting of the Sophomore class last week. President Danner will appoint five other men to help him on the commit- tee. 1916 decided to abandon the custom oi having large and cumbersome committees to take charge of the class dances and pre- fers a small, but efficient, committee. The plan is apparently a very wise one, and it is to be hoped that other classes will follow the precedent 1916 has established. '17: \What do you think of 'September Morn' anyhow?\ '14: \It looks to me like a take-off on a Kellerman poster.\ NOTICE. This is the last issue for this term. All subscriptions are due and payable. Please make checks to the order of the \Con- cordiensis .\ Subscribers who have not re- ceived all of the nine issues for this term and who wish to keep their files complete will be sent missing numbers upon request to the manager, Morris P. Schaffer, 924 Delatnont Avenue, Schenectady, N. ¥.

'' ' I -· ), 'l .. ,. ·l. I ' ' t' I:\ • , ·. • ~ I l t :- \ >• ~· 1 : ! ',l ::;: i \ ' ~~ ! \ ~ I ~ . '' l ·1 : . :: I . I'·,) ', !' i'· ' ,·.jll ; 1.' 1 ,·'! . r '1 1 I l!i I '. l i ·, ' ' t ' ' .; ' I I ' ri: I ::' ,,, \ ' , I ' i ' , : I '<I :j\ \ : ' ' ' '' i' i l' I I .. ,1 I,, WBY WORRY About that Xmas. gift? Send her the \Concordy.\ The gift will be entirely APPROPIATE and highiy APPRECIATED-it will be welcomed a:s a weekly reminder of the giver. We second Fuller, \When thou makest pres· ents let them be of such things as JDay frequently refresh the memory of the 0 '' re.c·e1ver. We fepeat-send her the '\G()ncordy\-let her catch the Union spirit no::w; in case ~of future need. As for that Fraternity Brother at a sister institution, or that friend bad: home, HE naturally EXPECTS a college man to send him the college paper. We are going to do some giving, too-we are giving a special reduction in price-one even do1lar sends this gift to any address for the remainint two terms. A pleasing announcement bearing advise of gift, and names of giver and receiver will be mailed, if deSired, to reach the subscriber Christmas morning. Our X mas. hint-the CON:CORDIENSIS, a phenominal publication, makes a pleasing present from the sapient student to his sire or siren. Take i't. ConEordiensis Christmas S11~scription •••••••••••••••••••• - ••••••••• ;. ••••• 5 ••• 191 Please send the \Concordiensis\ for the remaining two terms of the college yellr 1913-14- to the following addresses. l l!ereby agree to pay the management one ($1.00) dollar for each subscription. (Signed) __________________ _ N;()te-When Xmas. card is desired put an (X·) b~fore name. Send toM. P. Schaffer, Mgr., 924 Delamont Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. WHAT OTHERS SAY: \It is a pleasure for me to be able to sincerely congratulste you on the improved appearamce -. both typographically and in ~iter!'-ry form-of the Concol'd- lensts. Y oar effort to make the 1913- 14 issues the best to date, seem, so far to have been successfuL •• DeW itt Clinton, Librarian Union Coll~ge ''The Concordiensis has man~ excellent improvements this y~Car and gives evidence to the fact that the Editorial Board is wOtrk· ing hard to put out a newsy- e11d interesting college weekly.\ 4 The Schenectady GQr.ette

cl nt nd it. be in ·t , .• y~ar fact Slld THE CONCORDIEN:SIS Schenectady's Greatest Drt~g Store Will help you to decide. You'll find Quinn's an ideal Gift Store for Men follks. The variety is great in all lines. Sel- ection is easy because of the exten- sive range of prices and :the excel- lent display. You'll decide quickly if you come here; why not get it off of your mind EARLY? Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY Do your Holiday plans include a Winter Suit or Overcoat? If so come to Steefels-th()usands of gar- ments-hundreds of exclusive styles, no delays, and dollars saved for the trip or the dance • f,IO to $60 We rvant you to see our new M ackinarJJs 4 •.up to the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes\ f You are a College Man Let us show you what \class'' goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity brothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your chums. STULL BROS., Tailors Opp. Old Post Office 158 Jay Street A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A. STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to $5. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to 17. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles f(>r all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER•s PATRONIZERS

· THE CONCORDIENSIS. l'l- ------------------------------~~- 11. ,• .. . , ' ,. B4RNEY'S Where Everybody Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Schenectady's Greatest Store COLLEGE SHOES for COLLEGE BOYS AT EMERY'S Crossett Bench Made $5 and $6 Ralston Health Shoes $4 and $4.50 . EMERY'S 429 State St. Schenectady V. E. Whelden, Manager Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. Yate's Boat Housie The largest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing HaU, which can be rent~d for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection whh house - - - .. - - · 29 P.ront Street Both Phones ' . Fine .Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ......... . Clothing - - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Albany's Progressive Drug Store Morris Drug Co. 26-28 No. Pearl St. Alhony • Agency for Whitman's lna11. t~t iurher SAY YOU SAW IT IN 1'HE '~CONCORD1'•' I : . p ' ' '

ts .. THE CONCORDIENSIS An Oil Heater ia great for a chilly day. The perfection atove we offer at $3.00 The Rayo Lamp will not smoke, givea a ,strong, bright light~$1.98 COFFIN BROS. 303·305 STATE STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. iiiijil;:::;::::::;;;;iiiiiiiiiiil Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods 31. ~. ID4tnrlt DELI'CATESSEN ''Joe'' caters to the stud:ent. Break· fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John' a Caurc:b To tlle American lieges and Universities from 2 g the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty 'PHONE 9 · W 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ft:llows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirt• and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dreaaed men ( Hilgins' j l Drawin' lnka Eternal Writin~&lnk En,roasiaj Ink Taurine Muc:ilaa&e Photo Mounter Paate Drawin' .Board Paate Liquid Paste Office Paste V e•etable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelJing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. Vi.sdtn~ Cards WeJd,n~ Stabon~ry \Sus1ne Cards-LetterHeads Class Pins -Mono(rams CTests, Coats of Ar~s etc:. J)~ 81 GN E f\.S f:NGJV'VEJ\S PATRONIZE YOU'll PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

I ' I' ;\' i '. :•: ' / ., \' j i '; ' ! ,. I ' . I 1 I • ' ~ ~ l . ' i' I' i , I , I ~ ' ,. . I: ' . ' '11' ' J. ; ' < ~ i: r I,:; t ' ! ' ';, ':II 'I' I· :1 '. i \ ., • ,I '' '! ! I) I ' ! THE CON·c·oRDlENSlS A R Z . • ' o· h. furnished music at Union College 1905 . • ' Ita s I rc estra 'o6, ~or, 'o8, 'og,, ,, IO, ·xI, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Mu;'sic in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Only the Best Service. None .Setter for Concert Office and Res.,. 16'7 Hamilton St., Albany · Schenectad .• y's Leading Restaurant KEELER'SGLE N N'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL AND RESTAURA:NT Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New • Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard ' Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms I . Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec- tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phcme 1543-J lltuinu Natinnal1Bunk &tl}ttttrtabg, N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent LYON 'S The Store With 'lOver xoo,ooo Prescripti~ns. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies . LYON·S, Cor. State and Centre S,t. 422 STATE STL!EET LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted DANCJ:NG Waltz, Two Step, Three Step,& Bluebell taught in One Term MODERN DANCINO The new Parisian TangD, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons guaranteed. FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancin~ Arcade Hall, Near N. Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723·J Jrnf. J. i. 11\tlgallrn For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN 8. HAGADORN Hatter,Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bld·g. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co • 3l8-3.20 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE 11 CONCORDY'•

TH:E CONCORDlENSIS THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orcheatral Concerts during d:nner and . after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Alao THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hotel• conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWE:LL FURNITURE The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases . Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady The :chances are 3 to 1 that that Snappy Overcoat was made by WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR. WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J P ,A. TRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

l l \ I, l; ; I li ll '' I! 'I ' ! . I THE ·CONCORDIENSIS Warmth without weight ou~ter ·coats. Now is :the time fellows $2'5.00 to $75•00 J. J. HILLMAN . &:17 ~State Street Union Boys, The beat paper for your correspondence is ·CRANE'S LINEN LAWN. We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal, Garnet and Gold. · The Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The Gleason Book Co •. 104 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY'S ~ LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 ''Midnight Oil'' Is a Thing of the Past The clear white light of Mazda has revolutionized the stud:y hour. If studying or reading is a pleasure, Mazda will in· crease :this pleasure. If cramming is a drudgery, Mazda wHllighten it. USE MAZDA LAMPS Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done .iBARBOUR AND :MANIClJRE 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street · S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and 'PLANT, 742 STATE. STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ''C'ONCORDY'• ~ . .1\ ' . . ·, ' , .... ,.,, .. . . d ' -

: .· I ' , .... ,.,, ' . d ' CHAS. H. TURNER 'Sporting Goods A,Jbany, N.Y. MOE DEWIL.DE~ Hatter aud Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Goods , 54 State St., Albany, N.Y. M'ETROPOLITAN CLEANERS & DYERS \'We do it as you like to have it done''• Office, 1:24 Washington Ave. Alb ally, N. Y. William J. Reinhart McClure & Co.wles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. · Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. m~t C!rnlltgt Jriut &Jrnp 44 No. Jtrarl &trrrt Alhaug, N. 1- \Root for Jack\ FISHER'S 2nd SHIRTS 50c lanrr ®rllrrs, !lrnus. IDatalngnrs 112 No. Pearl St. \Ou Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 40 aNd 42 Maiden Lane Alban,, N. Y. _, ___________________________________________________ , PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.ATRONIZERS

: 1 \ ! I ~ '·, \ ·~ ' '; ,I ; i ! ~ I ~ ! I I il ij ' ! l i l! i ll t l I \I , I ·I l t . I . ' . I ' ' i i 'i I ~ ' ' ' . THE CONCORDIENSIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music p· urnished for all Occasio:ns Telephone 2131-J 310 State Street, .Scheaectady The Manhattan Co. · Engleman & Bellinger 142 STATE STREET • A complete department food store 'The best in everything for the table at the lowest caah pricea Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company ~ Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters PAINTS, Q:ILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A .. SQUA~E DEAL .. for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy:' We guarantee each buyer of an article hearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable am'Ount ofservice. A G Spauldl ·n & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • g ros. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalo~ue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. · The ~~~~ ~e~~~!~ 0 ~y i~s~~~s. World Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles · ENDICOTT -JOHNS OR and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .,CONCORDY'' ..... . '~ . . : . -~

Good ,Clothes SAY MEN: yJ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of ~ther things to wear too. If you look us over a little we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press -- - - Vo -- -

