PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICH·MOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses !e:uling to the degree of A. B. Cr,ASSICAL CotrRSI<: A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and Gennan are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CovRSE B.-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and is required for four years. 2. Course lead<ing to the degree of Ph. D. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSI~-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course letuling to· the {]egyee of B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to fb.e degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- tnental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. Six YEAR PH. B.-B. E. CouRSE.-This course com- bines the above four-year engineering course with the Latin-scientific course. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs frmn the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses Ie1uling to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o:F M. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboraiory practice and research work. CouRSE r..,EADING To DEGREE OJ!' PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES) Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. .DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical den1onstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: \VILLIS G. TucKER) M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER) }. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expen~es: 11atriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $I ro. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEP.:\RTMENT OF PI-IARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. WILLIAM A. LARKIN, PH. G., Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 466- J Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ ;-.,,, ... ·~ ~. • I ~) \:.• :.; ,· '• - • - - I -

I ~) ·\ :.• s .. ' ,'' ,, .: f :.; ,' '• ' ' . ~ • F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin PROPRIETORS •: ~~=~~ · ~ntrit& <ttnmpauy • Clothing, Hats, Furs, Trunks, Furnishings, and Bags 451 AND 453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N.Y. ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Dip~omas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N. Y. Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

========· 31 STEUBEN STREET====== HOME MADE LUNCHES E. H. s·ouDER Jewele.r an.d Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges & medals. Students effected with eye-strain and headaches should consult GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist SUITS MADE, TO ORDER $20.'0.0 to $40.00· --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, · • • President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treas. T. I. Van ANTWERP, - Vice-President ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, · General Counsel Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jla~n 1£uur~ Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. ~~ J< • '. I ' • ~ ' .'.,.,• • • • • K. H. Solaghian Photographs \While You VI ait'' Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo - you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \'CON CORDY''. - .·· .. /; i , :, '<::( .:.- ,'\'~ -·.' .. \;· i' • :. ~.~I ' ,'''i' .· lf ..... ·;:. j '? . ' ,· ... :< ·.··i , ., , '• (I -

.·· .. /; i . :, '<::( .:.- ,'\'~ -·.' .. \;· i' :. ~.~I • ,''•f ,' lf ..... ·;:. j '? . ' ,· ... :< ·.··i .:: .. , . ·, CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y . ;MOE, DEWILDER Hatter and rur11isber. Trunks and leather Goods . 54 Sta;te St., Albany, N. Y. METROPOLITA!N CLEANERS & DYB~S \We do it as you Uke to have it done\ Office, 12 4 Washington Ave. Albany, N. Y. William j. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Desig11er and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 61- No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. RESERVED FOR The C11llege Print Shop JOHN A. FISHER \AT YOUR SERVICE'' Opp. Wh_iting's Albany '~.Our Business is Growing\ Reliable DANKER Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS f.O a•d 42 Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY

In the ''.Wee Sma' Hours'' W 'h ' '' . ,, · · en you re crammtng for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that ,, d\ . '' con ttton - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt''- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to g:et chilly- THEN you'll appreci~ate the cheery an d c h e e r in g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminatin~ Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Orders .!F:or Bad-Fitting Clothes Are Decreasing Men spend their mor1ey for made- to-order suits that nt. They find they are tnuch cheap.er in the end. There is a de~mand fo:r better cus- tom tailorin~. We m·eet it fully SMITH & ~cLUTE 1 CENTRAL A..R(ADE Hurley ,Shoes Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three essentials to perfect footwear sa tis· faction that every man hopes to get in the shoes they btJy-and which they do get when ma:king their sel- ection from our stock of Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 amd $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 2 73 State Street SAY YOU SA.W IT IN THE .,CON CORDY'' i ,, ,, ' :.!.' ' . ,' ~~ '' -~ ' ,,, ' ' -,~ :, ., I . ' c ..... I tt.

' ,, ,, ·~ ' .,, ' ' ··~ :, .., I ' ' Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need :Our Guarantee STEINWAY WEBE:R Cluett· & Sons AND ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE. PIANOLA PIANOS 508 STATE ST .• , SCHENECTADY, N.Y. WHERE · ''l:f U's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Everybody Gets Shoes Mended •· · ·Our prices are no more than elsewhere, and we give you the best .material and workmanship. We make a specialty of repairing all kinds of rubbers. Work called for and delivered Free of charge. Shoes sewed by hand if desired. Open evenings- Saturday until 10 o'clock. ljl Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires lD Ball's .Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street 22 9 :State Street Telephone 34 56 23 Stores H 0 L TZ M A N 's LATEST STYLES--MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES [i) French, Shriner : & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largtst Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STSo SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

SPORTING GOODS BIG STQR.E----BIG STOCK We are Albany's Leading Distributors. Here you will find the largest line of Sporting and ... ~thJetic Goods in A.lbany. Every article selected with care from the most popular lines. Quality the best ... •' : ·¥. ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON C(O. ..,\ 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearestshoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET TH·E UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior c~n. be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 WHITE, 229 State Street 19()4 19()5 19()6 D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S College. Representative 19()7 19()8 Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats . and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street j./Otch COLLAR A Graceful High Band Notch Collar 2 for 25 cts. Cluett, Peabody & Co •• Inc. Makera SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .,CONCORDY\ 1909 1910 1911 1012 1913 1914 ·.'; .. ' 19 an lS of . lll( hac str me i ritt J. : Bl2 AlE Br<: Ed· Brt Bu1 F. Cle Dat 0. Dot bet1 Rol Dut An~

.-.1.·J.: ·.:·-' ... ,. : ·¥. ., •' The Concordiensis VOL. 37 OCTOBER 9, 1913 NO.1 LARGEST FRESHMAN CLAS·S. 1917 Enters Union With One Hundred and Forty-One Members. The class of 1917, with its one hundred and forty-one husky, soph-defying members is the largest freshman class in the history of Union. The men enter well prepared and indeed the numbers would have been l:arger had the entrance requirements been less strictly enforced. The names of the fresh- men follow: Arthur Amaya, Charles P. Andrews, Mer- ritt Atwood, Henry Bahret, Kenneth Eaird, J. Herbert Beck, Allison S. Behr, Kenneth Blakeslee, Julio B landy, Freeman R. :Boice, Alernilio Borelli, Frank]. Boyle, Edward W. Bradford, Dan1aso Brandoa, R. Dali Braman, Edward C. Brandow, J. H. Bresee, Robert Brundage, Joseph C. Buchanan, Irwin A. Buel, Clarence Bull, Justin W. Can, David F. Chapn1an, Robert H. Clapp, Arnold V. Cleary, J. W. Clen1ents, Alan G. Coletnan, Daniel B. Coleman, Alva H. Colson, Wilson 0. Clough, Vernon G. Clute, Allen Cooley, Donald Coon, Nelson Coon, Thomas J. Cor- bett, Ralph S. Dewey, Harry H. Dibble, Robert Douglas, Phil W. Downs, Harold L. Dunn, Floyd F. Eldred, Russell E. Elmore, Anson A. Emtner1ing, \Vendel G. Fallis, Franki:in L. Fero, Edward D. Fitz Gerald, Lewis J\t1. Fox, Jacob M. Frankel, Emman- uel Franklin, Willett Friday, George .R. Galbraith; VVilliam M. Gilbert, Jr., Jacob W.. Ganger, Wallace S. Girling, Arnold Goodrnan, Henry S. Hadley, Arthur C. Hal- lock, Mortimer Hawly, Joseph C. Haubner, Albert E. Haran, Ona F. Hawn, Charles Henhry, Delos Hickoch, Henry Hochuli, Perry l-Iofflnan, Earl l\1. I-Iyatt, Merwyn ] an1ieson, Anthony J aruclis, Elliott V. ] ones, Em arc is L. Jones, Jr., H. Lynn Kerts- cher, John Kosinski, Earle J. Kniffen, K. Ralph Knight, C. S. Kupennan, Hubert Lasher, Frank A. Lashowski, Paul R. Leake, Charles Lester, Albert Lewis, J. Ernesto Lisboa, Rufus V. :l\.faier, Ernest \i\T. l\1andeville, Louis Mann, Edw·in M. Martin, Allen 1\fattison, Stephen A. J\Iajewski, John F. McDern1ott, Ashley C. l\fead, J. Floyd Miller, A. A. Mitchell, Hun1berto Montiero, John M. J\!loore, Ralph ]. Morison, R. Ev- eritt Moses, George E. Moston, Hernando S. M ursa, Gordon 1'\ ash, Daniel N aylon, lVIilton M. Newell, Kenneth S. Noyes, Charles O'Brien, I-I. F. O'Neill, H. B. D. Passage, Carl Peterson, Fa·wcett W. Porter, Don Price, f-Ierhert S. Roberts, Dow G. Roof, I-Iarold L. San1n1ons, Jan1es l\11. Schn1idt, Francis W. Schneitzlein, William Schauer, Rudolph Scln~rartz, H. A. Scoby,].

10 THE, CONCORDIE:NSIS K. Sexson, J. A. La :Silva, Francis Shan, Al- fred ]. Snell, Hon1er L. Stephens, H. Gray Streeter,. John Toffee, D. Merlin 'Taylor, Otto C. Thuener, Ralph S. Travis, John H. Tregartha, Oliver C. Underhill, Cecil H. Underwood, Foust B. Van Avery, Antonio Vianna, J oas Vianna, E. C. V rootn,an~ K. J. Waite, George H. WaHace, Leon]. Wah~ath, Arnold N. Weeks, W. B. Wemple,, S. N. \!Vheeler, Jr., H. J. WiUian1s and Andrew D. \i\Tilson. UNION OPENS FO·OTBALL SEASON WITH DECISIVE VICTORY OVER ST. LAWRENCE Garnet 'Team Completely Outclasses Visi- tors and Wins by 20-0 Score-T:eam- Work is Ragged at Times, But Men Dem- onstrate Real Form. Even the tnost optimistic predictions con- cerning our opening gan1e with St. Law- rence were shattered Saturday, Sept. 25th, when the -vvearers of the 'Garnet hue', de- cisively and convincingly demonstrated their superiority over tl1e northern eleven, to the tune of 20-0. Except for the first few minutes of play, when tl1e Northerners car- ried the ball to with in the Garnet twenty- yard line, the Union goal was never in danger. Fron1 then on, Captain Sarvey's men struck their pace, and there was never a doubt as to the ou tco1ne of the Kan1e. Once the team found itself, the men tore th.rough the opposing defense at wiH, scor- ing three touchdowns and kicking two goals. Team Shows Promise. Of course, there was the usual uncertainty in the execution of plays, and frequent fumbling, which ordinadly n1ark an open- ing game, but on the whole, the tean1 showed splendid fonn, and having now the confidence of a winning start, should have a rnost successful season. The work of Cap- tain Sarvey, VVood and Stoller in the back iield was highly comn1endable. ''Sarv\ has lost none of his old-time dash, and titne and again he slipped through the line for long gains. Stoller, one of last year's scrubs, was surprisingly fast and made many yards on his line plunges, while Wood, who although not often called upon, still did some very effective work. The Game. There was no scoring during the first quarter, each tean1 playing loosely, ftunb- ling and making frequent off-side plays. At the very last of the period, Union took a brace and literally played the St. Lawrence men off their feet until the whistle blew. In the second period, Kinney's punt hit one of his team -rna tes, and Jenkins recovering the ball, put it on St. Lawrences twenty-five yard line. At the goal line, Wood was sent through center, for a touch-down, after which, Sarvey kicked a very neat goal. There was no further scoring until the third period, when Jenkins went over the St. l~a -vvrence line, on the fourth down, after the northerners had held twice on their one yard line. On the kick-off, follovving this score, Gardner of St. Lawrence ran forty- yards through the scattered Union team, and with only 'Pop' Scully between him and the goal, a touchdovvn seemed assured. But the doughty little quarter vvas equal to the occasion ·and nailed his n1an, thus prevent- ing a score. In the last quarter, Sarvey 111 a de a spectacular eighty -yard run for a tonchdo,rvn and in1mediately kicked the g·oal. 111 aking the score 20-0. The line-up and sn tnaries follow: St. Lawrence (10), Union (20). l\I c Ginn is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . H okerk Centre. Kennedy . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . Page Left guard. l\1 organ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jackson Right guard. I-I utchens ................ Price, V rootnan Left tackle. L ·CJ K~ Rc Ga ~Gr KiJ •,c.:' .,··,\, I riel lOll Go~ ,' ,_ ' 'h, s I E Wh( the ' rusl de a] ' . :] shot '!~ ... :; the : .~ ori t., '•: ' _. vVhc I · .; (1efi·r ' ' ', ~ cool~ clas~ ,, deciE ' pla11! '· ·• the : ·, :· quitE denl) , ;' hOSJ)~ . ; newe · .... · numt . upon . a jol , . great1 · havin · ·.·taken .: them ,. . ~ .: .,

t a e t 1\'HE CONC·ORDIENSIS 11 Leonard .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jenkins Right tackle. little trip was taken by about twe11ty of the fresl1n1en. ·Church ....... \ . . . . . . . Cleveland, Mallen Having gotten rid of as n1any of the. class as could be found, the only thing left for the Sophs to do was to fight the rest of the1n to a finish, and this they determined to do. Shortly after four o'clock the. two classes were lined up face to face on the battle ground and began to survey each other carefully. To the sophon1ore standing in Left end. KeBey II e e e • • e e t• t • e t ,t • • e t t t· t • 't e e • t t Story Right end. Roundy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Starbuck, Scuily Quarter. Gardner • • • • • • • 9 • • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • Sarvey Left half. ~Griswold ......................... Stoller Right half . Kinney . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Wood Fullback. Referee-Bird (Yale). Utnpire-Kilpat- rick {Union). Headlinestnan-Grout (U n- ion) Touchdowns-Wood, Jenkins, Sarvey. Goals fron1 touchdowns-Sarvey (2). . :(. SOPHOMORES WIN CANE RUSH. ( Fron1 the pen of a Sophon1ore) Ever since that memorable day last year when the Class of Nineteen-sixteen made 1 the seven year hoodoo by winning the cane ' rush, they have looked forvvard with a great . . deal of anticipation to the tirne when they / ; should advance from the opposite line of ... :; the battle-field and again show their superi- : ·~ ority to a new tribe of the war-like braves. vVhen the appointed day was drawing near, I i definite plans were mapped out by the cooler anct n1ore strategetic heads of the class in order to secure the certainty of a ,; decisive victory. Just what all of these ',_ pla11s were is not yet known, but early in the n1orning of Septetnber the nineteenth, · · :· quite a number of freshmen becan1e sud- ... den ly a ware of the fa~t that the kind ancl •· hos})itable sophon1ores, wishing to give the .· : neweotners a good tin1e, had tnade up a ··: number of automobile parties and insisted .. , .. up~n giving 1nany of the g-reen-capped n1en . a Jolly little joy-ride. This was not the greatest surprise in store for the \frosh \ for · : havin~ reached their destination, they 'were .. taken .Into a barn where the Sophs schooled .. ,:. them tn the gentle art of packing salt. This the front ranks of his comparatively small group there appeared to be an endless .mass of bandaged heads before hitn and as he turned to scan his own forces a tren1or of doubt rested 1non1entarily in his n1ind send- ing a peculiar shaky feeling through his Iin1bs. This did not last long, however, and by the titne the shrill sound of the starting whistle sent the salt throwers to tl1eir charge, the grit and cletern1ination of every n1an was screwed to its highest pitch. Then followed a steady battle in which the freshtnen had a slight advantage but were not able to push it to much effect before the whistle blew again. The excite- ment of the salt scrap did tnuch toward strengthening the nerves of the Sophs and as they lined up again on the tnark the huge 111ass of bandaged heads before thetn seen1ed not quite so huge as before and the long line of salt spattered faces looked not quite so defiant but n1ore a serious frown of set c1e- tern1ination. This tin1e the charge was fiercer and with less hesitation, both classes running with their greatest speed and fot-ce until the clash piled them in a struggle of vvrithing hun1anity at the botton1 of vvhich the coveted baseball bat was held fast by the hands of the fastest tnen of each class;. As the upper classtnen began to tear the writhing n1ass apart, a dead hush passed over the crowd and as the count was beino-- r, taken, the counter's voice was plainly au- dible from the terrace wall. The final count having been given, a wild yell of victory arose fron1 the sopho111ore line as both classes rushed for the Idol. The '16 tnen had won 8-3.

I I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CANE RUSH (By a Frosh) The oLd proverb \start right, stay right and the endings will take care of them- s~elves'' d:id not hold true in the class of 1917. We started right on Sunday night, Sept. 14th, by painting the Idol a bright red, which co]o.r it remains to this day. Monday morning we expected to find a large delegation of sophomores waiting for us outside the college office, but were greatly disappointed to see only a few to eiean -up. The sophs were so scarce that one of the class attempted to beat up ''Chuck\ Wal- dron, but \Chuck\ proved too much for him. Monday evening we expected to have a good scrap at the Idol and were out in good force. The sophs, however, were pretty well hidden and only a few came out. Those few came out in company with a good squad of freshtnen and were put through the various duties of painting the Idol, singing and giving a yell for 1917. From Monday night until F,riday things went pretty slow. The sophomores were pretty well under cover and the freshmen began to think they had all left college. However, on Friday the sophs appeared on the campus at intervals in two big autGmo- bHes and rustled off a few \frosh '' to make them pack salt. The spohs did not have nerve enough to follow out the time- honored custom of having their salt packed in the old gymn. They took it out to the Knolls and many believe they packed it themselves. w.e were on the lookout for any of the torm-entors ( ?) and when we found then1 n1ade thetn do such little stunti as taking a ride on the fast mail. We had everything our own way in the tomato-salt scrap. Very few of the sopho- mores had nerve enough to come out. \i\Then the signal was given we went at thetn and made things look like a tomato patch after a hail ston-n. The few representatives of 1916 tried :feebly to check our onslaught but to no avail. Vvr e give the plucky little fel- lows cred-it for even daring to appear against us. Of course the .cane-rush went to the sophomores as per time-honored custom. But we feel sure we could have :gotten it had we had any organization; anyway, we think we did a very generous thing in let- ting the sophs get it, otherwise their feel- ings might have been hurt. We will get another crack at them in the snowball fight and tnake up then for loosing the ~cane rush. ASSOCIATION NOTES Secretary Male Doing Splendid Work. Y. M. C. A. activities for 1914 started with the annual Freshman reception in Silliman Hall on Friday, Septen1ber 19th. Most of the class for 1917 was present as well as a large delegation of sophomores and upper- classmen. Speeches of welcome, ad-vice, and explanation of coBege activities were made by President Richmo-nd, Dr. Fred \tVinslow Adams of the State Street Methodist church, Professor John I. Bennet, Coach Fred Da w- son, Charley Male, Dalt Sarvey,, Steve Story, Bill Mudge, and Don Coulter. Re- freshments were served and the coll:ege got acquainted with its new members. At this reception an innovation in Y. M. C. A. work was introduced by Secretary Male when he invited freshmen, desirous of attending church in Schenectady on Sun- days, to meet in Silliman Hall from which upperclassmen would escort them to the various places of worship. This scheme, when tried out the next Sunday, proved effective. The Sunday afternoon Vesper meetings this fall have been quite well attended. President Richmond .spoke at the first. On September 28th, Dr. H. H. Murdock of the Albany Street Methodist church gave a talk and on Sunday, October 5th, this was done by Dr. G. W. Woodall of the Union Street Methodist Church. Annonnce1nent has been made that a ' . ·' ; . '~ .. :,,.• . \. \ .. , ·,·::· I·\ ·' ~ . '· ' ( ( ( . 1 I v I~ d h \ b fl s1 t<: g tt w re al to WJ a po fo1 fal 111{ stt Th of . ten . 111e eff< I cep '14 ' VV::; Mr I

e e t ; . '~ ·. <.,,,.• ·, .·. . \. . ·'~ . ;· \ .. , . ·. I·,. ·' THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 nun1ber of protninent speakers have been secured -definitely to speak during the fall tenn. An1ong thetn are the Rev. Orrin G. rhenn1atism ancl a g-eneral breakdown at the end of the last sp:ring tertn, has greatly i:tn- proved to the relief of both the faculty and students. At the present writing his condi- tion is so that each day, when the weather is favorable, he has been a hle to take a shGrt airing on the veranda. Professor Hofftnan • Cocks, Secretary of the Laity League of New York City; Dr. A. R. Brubacher, Sup- erintendent of Schools, in Schenectady; and Clancy D .. Connell, Y. M. C. A. State Stu- dent Secretary. Dr. Cocks is a forn1er Un- ion tnan. He is scheduled to speak probably late in October. Bib1e Study classes an1ong the students were arranged for at a tneeting of the fel- lows interested,. in Silliman Hall, Wedt1es- day afternoon, October 1st. The plan is to hold a n1eeting or \Normal Class\ for the \group leaders\ in Sillin1an Hall on Novenl- ber 1st. At this meeting representatives from the various fraternities and general student body will be instructed by a cotnpe- tent man. Then group n1eetings under the guidance of these \leaders\ will be held in t1J.e Houses and at Sillitnan Hall. In this way a larger nun1ber of students can be reached than by Bible classes in the Hall alone. The Association will hold n1onthly \get together 111eetings\ in Silliman to which the whole college is cordially invited. This is a new plan and will doubtless prove very popular. The first social night is arranged for f-Iallowe·en, Friday, October 31st. The work of the Etnploytnent Bureau this fall has been very gratifyiug to Y. M. C. A. n1en. Over four tin1 es the usual number of students have been put in the way of work. The Bureau is being systematized by 1neans of card-indexes and other aids toward effic- iency, and has been put in charge of a Cab- inet me1n ber. The Bureau will continue its efforts throughout the year. It was with regret that the Cabinet ac- ;epted the resignation of Cyrus B. Eltnore, 14, as treasurer, through stress of work. vVarren C. Vosburgh, '14 was appointed in Mr. Elmore's place. ' DEAN RIPTON'S ILLNESS. Dean Rjpton, who was taken with sciatica and Mr. Waldron have charge of his classes during this tenn. Professor Hill is expected to take charge of several of thetn later on. The faculty and stu(lents are very anx1o~ts for an early recovery. PREXY W[LL BE BUSY. President Richtnond has several impor- tant engagetnents fo1· the near future. On October 12, he preaches in an An1sterclain church both tnorning and evening. October 18th he makes the anniversary address at the N evv York H istori eal Society, this date being the 109th anniversary of the founding of the society. His subject \V\rill be, \Safe- guards of American Democracy.\ On Oct- ober 20th, he addresses the \Von1en's Clnb of Schenectady. On N oven1ber 28th he will speak at a n1eeting ()f the Association of Schools and Preparatory Schools of the Middle States and Maryland. This tneeting is to be held in _A.lbany. HONOR COURT. The Honor Court now consists of the fol- lowing n1en: fron1 the class of 1914. Ennis, Evans, Fox, Guthtnan, I-Iitchcock, C. Sher- n1an, Telfer, and Van Santwood; recently elected from the c1as,s of 1915, Boyce, Coulter, Duane, Guerard, Macmillan, and Randles. At the n1eeting held on Septenl- ber 27th, D. A. Cot1I-ter, '15, was elected secretary. Since every student is required to sign his nan1e to the Ho11or Constitution, the book which contains t 1l:ese natnes was left in the College office with a n1en1ber of the Court for two days last week, so that the Fre.shn1en and new tn en1 hers of the three upperclasses tnight sign .

14 THE CONC'ORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News W eeldy Published by THE Sri'UDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN ..:CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN -CHIEF, Raymond Van Santvord, 'lA, Psi Upsilon House. ATHLETIC EDIT-OR Roblee H. Vaughan, '14, Delta Phi House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, A'l~ha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, 'I 5; D~ A. Coulter, 'IS; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E~ R. Hughes, 'rs. REPORTERS G. D. Aldrich, '16; H. A. Glenn, r6 ; W. C. Louglin, '16; M~ D~ Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert~ '16. Morris P. Schaffer, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, Asst. Business Manager, Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. How do you like us? TO THE CLASS OF 1917. There are many things that we should like to say to the entering class, both in the line of advice and in the line of explanation of Union spirit. But, if there is one thing above :dl others that we wish to emphasize, it is this-it is not the sprint at the start but the continued well-regulated advance that makes a true Union 111an. By this we do not desire to discourage any enthusiasn1 but we do desire to encourage the regulation of that enthusiastn to the bounds of good judg- ment. ~ 0 n1n n ran clo the })toper justice to any college activity unless he has. first firmly established himself in his s.cholastic duties. And if any man feels that he cannot support a college activity and at the same time do honestly by his college work, he will do in- finitely more for Union by doing thoroughly his college work than by doing both poorly. To those men who are able to serve their college through college activities, we would say that . it is not usually the man who has the longest list of club affiliations after his na111e, who is doing the most for Union; but the man who although he n1ay be con- nected with but one college activity does his duties in that connection thoroughly. You men all know that there are certain titnes in store for you in your course here at Union, in which you will be called upon to support certain movements which al- though at the tirn·e may seem trivial in im- portance to you, are vitally i1nportant to \C nion. It is necessary that your attitude in all 1natters of student administration, however sim pie, be based upon right and sound judgment; and right and sound judg- tnent will always result, if you develope frotn the beginning an unpartisan attitude. Remember that you are all metnbers of a remarkable institution which is greatly loved by hundreds of men who have gone before you and that now you are actively taking part in its acln1inistration and conse- quently its destiny. It is ren1arkable be- cause of its distinguished graduates and be- cause of its exceptional college gpirit. These sarne great n1.en are watching old Union constantly in her progress upward and they are judging and will judge the kind of Union 1nen you are by the way you use the spirit which you have inherited. Start in with the college spirit you intend to finish with and there will be no question as to the result. T. L. E. A WORD ABOUT OURSELVES. v\Tith this first issue of the year' we feel it our duty as well as our privilege to an- t .,.. c ' ~ c: I a t f s v t a f, s d . -.~ :·· :r· \ , .. d t~ y a ,. u ' ' e . '· ,· 0 b n d c~ p ' ;\ a: ., ,. 1,\ ·: ~. ,•, '.' -~· a1 \ . . ~ r T bl la sc: de tt fd .. T . l Sl

.i ·, ,. ' ! ... . '- ~· '.' ·~·. y . .' THE ·C'ONCORDlENSIS IS nounce to the college that there has been a decided change in the policy of the Board. Some of the .effects of this change are a ppar- ent in this issue. We have adopted a better paper to use in the Concordiensis. We have a new cover design and we hope to change this often, if only the students wil:l hand us pages which they have designed. Any scene or combination of scenes connected with the campus will be appropriate. The inserts which will appear fro1n titne to time are an innovation which we expect, and sincerely hope, will become a popular feature this year. These inserts are n1ade suitable for framing and should be a splen- did addition to anyone's room. Later, we expect to establish several new departtnents in the paper which will appeal to both students and alutnni. Our ain1 this year is to tnake the Concordiensis an accur- ate and con1plete record of all undergrad- uate activity and we shall work with this end in view. We owe the student body an explanation of lateness of our first issue. This was due to the inability of the Publication BDard to meet and ratify onr contract at an earlier date. However, they may look for the Con- cordiensis every Thursday hereafter, as protnptness of issue is to be another of our . au11 s. THE NO-DEAL AGREEMENT. The No~Deal Agreement was adopted un- anit11ously in the college meeting Monday. The same agreen1ent was adopted last year but through the lack of interest shown by a larg-e majority of the class of 1913, the neces- sary £ignatures of four-fifths of the stu- dentry body were no.t obtained. Ettt this year, things seem favorable and the prospects seem indeed bright for the ratification of this all-important docutnent . The sophomore ·and junior classes adopted similar agreements of their own to govern class elections and with 5Uch a spirit mani- fested in the college there seems little doubt but that the Agreetnent will be given an opportunity to prove its worth this year .. 1'\\ ovv a word to the freshmen. You have no doubt read the agreement carefully. You have, we hope, realized its value and worth to the college. You will be asked to sign it soon and before you do, we wish to point out t\vo facts. 'The Agreetnent, as passed, does not prohibit in any way the \talking- up'' of a candidate for an office. It in no way prohibits any nun1ber of men, gathered together, from discussing any candidate. It ,s purpose is this: to put a stop to the bartering of college and class offices. This is prohibited but honest electioneering is pern1itted. Then, secondly, the agreement must cotne up every year for ratification or nullification. Each student-body acts upon it as it will govern that student-body. The agreement passed l\llonday tnay need anlendments next year. If it does, next year's student-body has the power to an1end it. You are signing nothing which will be binding upon future classes. \Ve want you to bear this in mind and to sign the No-Deal Agreement so that it n1ay be given a £air o·pportunity to demon- strate its vvorth or its defects. The welfare of \Gnion de1nands some such agreetneRt and let us be the first to put it into effect. RUTGERS DEFEATS UNION. Garnet Players Outclassed by Superior Training and Weight of Rutgers. .A new feature of the Rutger's trip this year was the night-before jatl.ilt to New York. Heretofore the New York trip had always been made by the Albany night boat. This year the rt1anagement put into opera- tion the idea of taking the En1pire ·Express and stopping overnight in New York. The squad numbering eighteen tnen on arriving there at 11 o ·clock P. :l\1. was taken to the

16 THE c·ONCORDIENSIS Curnber1;and hotel \vhen, instead of a broken rest whic'h a tean1. on a trip usually snatches in train fu erths, a11 the n1en enjoyed a natural rest, sl~eping until late in the morning. Then :after a quiet breakfast the journey that the ends were given plenty of time to get down the field and be on the spot the instant the ball was caught. Consequently the Union backs were forced to fair catches and the punting ceased on Rutger' s 40 yard line when a steady march down the :field began with the Garnet men contesting every inch of the ground. They reached the eight yard line just as the first period ended and Bracher circled the right end in the second touch-down. This time Taln1an kicked the was made to New Brunswick. Owing; to a delay in the arrival of the trunks eontaining the suits, the tean1 did not take the field sharply on time. When they did arrive, they were greeted by some sharp, snappy yells fron1 a number of Union students and alu1nni who had gathered on tke visitor's side of the field. Rutgers kicked of£ to Union and Stoller ca1T~ed the ball to the thirty-yard line before being stopped. Then a fumble gave Rut- gers the ball which, in less than three min- utes, tbey carried over the line by an end run and t.wo line rushes. The attetnpt to kick a goal was unsuccessful. Unio11 repeated the trick shortly after- wards 1n a slightly different n1anner. Girl- ing who had .been subst,ituted for Cleve- land .at end, after having n1essed up an atten1.pted forward pass, scooped the ball on the rnn and darted for the goal 45 yards away. A few fleet-footed Scarlet and Black wearers looked as though they n1ight over- take h-itn but by bearing toward the left he k~J>t tlren1 off until he had crossed the line. Tlue ,l!unt-out had to be tnade fron1. a bad position and failed to reach the eager hands of the receiver. The score stood 6-6 and still -the real ability of neither teatn had been put t() the test. goal. The next touch-down was made on a suc- cessfully executed forward pass fro1n Gay to Sieber who brought the ball beneath the goal post. Again a series of punts was started and then Rutgers won their way to the goal by rushes. The first half ended by a score of 26-6. Whatever ragged edges had been hanging loose in the first half, were gathered up in the second half by the Garnet and they went back into the game without a faJter and to~ ward the end played Rutgers to a standstill. The wearers of the Scarlet and Black oft repeating the encouraging ren'1arks to one After that the gan1e settled down to real foot-ball, as. the overwheln1ing weight of the opponents began to tell its story. Union was {)'Utweighted 35 pounds to a n1an. When S-toller and VV oods were taken out, the back- fielcl con1posed of Sarvey, Scully and Van Dettsen looked like veritable pigtnies again.st the heavy Rutgers backs. Following the next kick-off an interchange of punts in whicl1 Rutgers showed superiority for Tal- n.1an's punts each tin1e went far between 60 ancl 65 yards. These punts were so high another to \remetnber 3-0 last year\ were bent on rolling up as big a score as possible. They found a stronger opposition opposite then1 now and had to work for every inch for Union fought with great pluck and con- tested every inch. I-Iowever, they could not prevent Rutgers from tallying 2 more touch downs. One by Gay who on catching a short punt ran for a touch-down and in the last period Bracher carried the ball over after it had been brought to Union's three- yard line by Taln1an. The gat-ne ended with the ball in Rutger\s possession after they had bucked the line three titne~ for a gain of only four yards. No one who saw the fight the fellows pllt up against that bunch of huskies could feel a bit disappointed at the result of the game. Every one on the bill should feel proud oi the way they fought in the face of defeat and in the last n1int1tes of play brought those ·.···· s s c s t r r c ~ t f , ( 1 1 1 1 ,

. ut 01 •' ' THE CONCORDIE:NSlS 17 seemingly unstoppable formations to a standstill. Captain Sarvey tore off a couple of runs that made many a Rutger's man stand up and once sidestepped six eager tackles in that wonderful manner of his. Rutgers has a team this year that will make some of the big ones sit up and take notice. Watch them against the Arn1y, Saturday. 'Two of their men, if they keep the pace, ought to make somebody hustle for all-American fame. They are coached in a inanner that just evades the letter but not the meaning of the. law in some of their plays. It took the Garnet some time to fathom the famous Rutger's formation and to prevent being sucked in on shifts. Rut- gers ran wonderful defense for the man car- rying the ball and in, a manner ahnost im .. possible to stop at the outset. Union was weak in interference and too light for line backs. Sarvey was the only man who could gain yards consistently and this only through clever foot-work. Jenkins was boxed-in by a heavy opposing line but man- aged to break in a few times and spoil well- laid plans. Next week Mass. Aggies will be here on campus and the Garnet will face another hard proposition. From the lessons learned last Saturday and a week of good solid prac- tice which Coach Dawson expects to give the squad, the Aggies will face a team of veterans, seasoned, plucky, and undaunted. Union (6), Rutgers (39). Cleveland, Girling ....... Rockefeller, Searl Left end. Price · -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Taln1an Left tackle. Page, Gardner ................... . Twing Left guard. Hokerk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . White Centre. Jackson, Page ....... McCollom, McClocky Right guard. Jenldns, T 1 F · · · ·.......... oo1ey, oUensbee Right tackle. Story, Mallen ............. Seiler, Whit pen Right end. Starbuck, Beaver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Eln1endorf Quarterback. Sarvey ..................... o •••• Bracher Left halfback. Stoller .... o • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Gay, Harker Right Fullback. Wood, Van Deusen, Scully .......... Todd Fullback. Touchdown for Union, Girling; for Rut- gers, Gay, 2; Bracher, 3; Seiler, 1. Goals from touchdowns, Tallman, 3. Referee, Coche1ns, of W is cons in; umpire, Quill, of Yale. D'R. HOFFMAN ADDRESSES MEN. Prof. Hoffman addressed the· Men's Club of the First Reformed church, Tuesday evening, Sept. 30th, his subject being \Di- rect Primaries.'' He fully explained this new thing in our politics and discussed the undesirable conditions in political life that are the causes of the present agitation for direct primaries. The promised reforms made by the introduction into our political systen1 of registration of voters, the Aus- tralian ballot and the \Corrupt Practices Act'' did not come, the speaker said, and the present proposed system vvill not clear up all difficulties, but it is better to do son1e- thing than nothing. Prof. Hoffman said that he believed that a direct primary ex- peritnent ought to be tried in New York state. IENGAR '13 SHOCKED. N ugihalli N arasitnaha Iengar, '13, was badly burned last Friday while at work in the Test Department of the General Elec- tric plant at Pittsfield, Mass. A current of twenty-three hundred volts passed through him burning his arm quite seriously and making it necessary to take him to a hospi- tal. Iengar was valedictorian of the gradu-

18 TI-IE ·CONCORDIENSIS ating ·class last June and vvas one of the most brilliant n1ea who ever studied at Union. He is a native of [ndia. John Sherburne '14 and R. A. MacTag- gart, ex-15 have entered the freshnTan class at Albany Medical College. THE BUTTERPIELD MEMORIAL Union Receives a Bequest of One Hundred Thousand Dollars For the Erection of a Building. Nearly everyone has by this time heard of tlie Butterfield Metnorial. It was in the early nineties that General Daniel Butter- field, '49 becatne really interested in his Allna Mater throug-h the efforts of Dr. Ray- tnond, at that time president of Union. There was establisllecl at the college a splen- did course of lectures, of which the General bore the expense. The best talent was attracted here, ancl the. lectures proved highly popular. E11t after about ten years General Butterfield dred, and did not re- member Union in his will. Dr. Raymond expressed his surprise at this the first time he met Mrs. Butterfield. A few years later the widow n1ade a win in which it was understood a bequest had been left to Union. Later she met President Richtnond and in- fo.rn1ed hin1 that she had bequeathed some lands in Texas to lhe college. The presi- dent delicately suggested that Texas is far away, and that n1oney would he welcome. This sun11ner Mrs. Butterfield died, and when her will was probafed it was found that $100,000 belonged to Union, and that the n1oney was to be used for the erection of a building in memory of General Butterfield. It has not yet been decided in what way the n1oney will be used. 1'here has been discussion a1nong the tr·ustees concerni n a the erection of a new chapel. But since th~ Ganeral was an agnostic, sotne think a chapel would not be a fitting n1emorial. So the matter still hangs in the atr. PATTERS-ON '12 WINS H·ONORS. Robert P. Patterson '12, who was one of the honor men in his class and who ·was elected to Ppi Beta Kappa as a reward for his high grade of scholarship has won still rnore honors. Last year he entered Harvard Law School, in a class of three hund-red col- _ lege-trained n1en.. At the end of the year he ranked second highest ·lnan in his class and was a warded the Sears Prize which is given to the first and second men in each class. Dana of Yale won first place with an aver- age for the year of eighty-three per cent., while Patterson was a close second with an average of eighty-two. The first ten 111en in the class are elected to run the Harvard Law Review, one of the best legal papers in the country. Dana refused because of his ill health and \Bob\ is therefore head of the Review, an honor indeed. We are proud of hitn and wish him even more success. SENIOR CLASS ELECTS. At the meeting of the Senior Class, Sep- tember 25, th.e following men were elected: President, George E. Lewis; vice-president, A. S. lVIcCormick; secretary-treasurer, Bert l\1. H ubbarcl; representative on Graduate Conncil, C. A. Kenvvorthy; historian, John I-Iall . THE BIGELOW MEMORIAL. Following the expressed desire of son1e of the close friends and devoted adtnirers of the late John Bigelow, it is proposed to per- petuate his tnemory by the erection of a last- ing men1orial. John Bigelow was a grad- uate of Union College in the class of 1835, and for tnany years her oldest living auhn- nus. It is felt that the n1ost fitting n1emorial would be a building erected on the ca1npus of his Ahna Mater, with lecture halls and roon1s devoted to the studies he loved, his- tory, politics, and literature and the estab- lishtnertt therein of a John :Bigelow profes- sorship of political science. The building ·.·.:,'/' \:·.; r ,._: i I . . ' ,·'; 01 lTI dt al St fu H 11 A dr w: E. he ba fo th vv vv: tic qu ha \iV( sp . 1S ba ga ha . · of AI . 111~ ... be

THE ,CONCORDIENSIS. 19 ,· ·.·.:,'/' \:·.; ,;voulcl be na1ned the \John Bigelow lVIenl- orial Hall\. It is estimated that the two 1 ne1norials will cost not less than one hun- dred thousand dollars, of which a1nount about :fifteen thousand has alreadjy been subscribed. ,..fhe COlnmittee in charge of the fund is ,co1uposed of the following: Joseph H. Choate, Charles E. Hughes, J. Pierpont J:vforgan, Jr., Henry Fairfield Osborn, George A. Plirnpton, Eliphalet N ott Potter, An- drew Carnegie, Elihu Root, John S. Cad- walader, Oswald Garrison Villard, Joseph E. Ransdell, Charles Alexander Richn1ond. ATHLETIC BOARD MEETING. At the first meeting of the Athletic Board, held Wednesday, Septen1ber 25, assistant baseball and track rnanagers vvere elected for 1914. Henry Faust '15 was elected to the assistant n1anagership of baseball and \IVesley I-I. Baldy '15 vvas elected assistant n1anager to the track team. Faust is a 1nen1- r ,..: ber of the Alpha Delta Phi fraternity and Baldy is a Delta Upsilon. Keen con1petition vvas a feature of the try outs for these posi- tions and both 1nen have shovvn then1selves qualified to fill the positions which they have earned. i ' ' ,·'; The board at this n1eeting also discussed vvays and tneans for encouraging interclass · '· sports. 1\s a result of this discussion, there is to be a Sopho1nore and a Freshn1an foot- ball tean1 vvhich \vill play a series of three gatnes on the 'varsity field. The tean1s \Vill have capable coaches under the supervision . · of Coacl1 D3-vvson. FRATERNITY PLEDGES. I . Kappa Alpha-Allan Cobden, Justin Carr, Alva Colson, Daniel N aylon. Sig1na Phi-Robert Douglas, B. \Ven1ple. Delta Phi-Kenneth S. Yoyes, John In1e, Jacob Gauger, David Chapn1an, Paul Leake, Herbert Beck. Psi Upsilon-Ralph Knight, Wallace Girl- ing, I-I. Lynn l{ercher, William l\1orris Gil- bert, Jr .. Earnest l\iandeville, Floyd Eldred. Delta Upsilon-Charles Andrews, Henry Bahret, E. :C. Brandow, Robert Brundage, J. C. Buchanan, Alfred Snell_, Leon Malrath, Herbert Roberts, Vernon Clute, Louis Mann. Chi Psi-lVIerrit Atwood, Philip Downs, Fay PorteT, Henry Hadley. Alpha Delta Phi-Charles Lester, Charles O'Brien, Ashley lVIead. Beta Theta Pi-1VL Jamieson, Hal Scoby, Harold Sa1n1nons, Russel 8ln1ore, Douglas \V ilson, :H arolcl Dunn, Floyd Miller. Phi Delta Theta-Ora IIawn, Albert I-Iawn, Ralph Morrison, Wilfred Roseczans, George Moston. Phi Gan1n1a Delta-Gray Streeter, Dow Roof, .A.nson Emmerling, EUiot Jones, Arn- old \)V eeks, Nelson ;Coon. Theta Lambda Phi-Joseph Haubner. Christopher l\~1attison, VVilHam Bratnan, Os- car Hendry, H. J. \i\lilliatns '16. Pyra1nid Club-Edward Bradford, Arnold Bresee, Ralph Travis, Kidle Fallis. MUDGE ELECTED CAPTAIN. \Villiam A. Mudge '14 is the nevvly elected captain of the Cross-country- team. The in- dications a1·e that the teatn will have a very successful season and that not even the loss of last year ,s veterans will prove a severe handicap. i(een interest has been shown by the exceptionally large number of candi- dates out. Eln1ore '14 of last year's tean1 will he unable to work out hut there are out for the tean1, Mudge '14, Shennan '14, How- ell '14, \tVaclsworth '14, Blodgett '15, New- ton '16, Gunning '16 and Rollins '16, who have had the advantage of r·unning with the tean1 last season. Friday, Hofflnan and others of tl1e freshn1an class have been do- ing very credibly during ahnost three weeks of prelitnit1.ary practice under Dr. McCom- ber. A tria{ run of about two 1niles was held last Wednesday· although sotne of the men including Eltnore, Sherman a.nd Howell did not run. Friday, running sera tch, was first

20 THE CONC'ORDIENSIS with the short time of 10:13. Wadsworth,. 30 sec., finished second and Newton, 20 sec., and Rollin!' 30 sec., were tied for third place. Manager Case is arranging the schedule which will probably include runs with Col- gate, R. P. D. and Vermont. Union spirit is one of unity and fairness. The juniors pl,edged themselves on a special pap~r drav.rn up a£ter the vne in '~ogt.1e gen- erally and the resulting election is clear evi- dence that their sense of honor went further than a written pledge on paper. The result of the election was as follows: NEW TERRACE COUNCIL MEN. ---- Election by Senior Class Found Illegal and Therefore Void. President, Raymond S. Blodgett; vice- president, Walter C. Baker; secretary-treas- At College meeting, Monday noon, the three men who had been elected to 'ferrace Council earUer in the Fall were discovered to have been holding office illegally. Accord- ing to the constitution of the Terrace Coun- cil which has been adopted by the student- body, the three elective members of the Council must be elected by the student-body and not by the senior class alone. This lat- ter method of election has been used for the past two years and the discovery of the tnis- take was not brought to light until a few days ago. To set n1atters aright, a new election had to be held in which Dalton Vane Sarvey, of Eln1ira; H. Fiern1an Hitchcock, of Catn- bridge, and Stanley L. Walworth, of Bing- han1ton, \AJere elected to the highest honors the student-body can confer. Sarvey is a 1nen1ber of Psi Upsilon and Captain of Var- sity Foot-ball. 1-Iitchcock is a member of Delta Upsilon and Editor-in-chief of the Concordiensis~ \V alworth is a member of Alpha Delta Phi and President of the Press Club. ---- JUNIOR CLASS ELECTS. Adopts No-Deal Agreement of Its Own. 'The recent election of officers held by the jttnior class is lasting proof that the real urer, Harry B. Marvin. The fact that such headings as \Members of 'Terrace Council' Ousted'' appeared in a local paper, when said members had never been elected is to be regretted n1uch, for rea- so~s obvious but it is to be borne in mind that unless these irregularities are uncov- ered and corrected, we can not realize the true Union spirit which we claim. It is to be hoped that the junior class which i~ next head of the student-body will tnaintain its high standard for their successors to follow. ---- NO-DEAL A.GREEMENT ADOPTED. The No-Deal Agree111ent proposed by the Honor Court, Septen1ber 29th, was adopted unanimously by the student body Monday in college tneeting, after being laid on the table one week for consideration. The Agreetnent requires, however, the signatures of four-fifths of the student-body befor<t it becomes effective in the government o£ underg1·aduate affairs. A n1otion to retain all the signatures now attached to the agreen1ent, unless personally renewed within one week, and to count them as legal in the securing the necessary four-fifths, was passed. This leaves only the fresl11nen and son1e few others to sign the Agreen1ent. -, ·::/, - ~ '-.~ .. ,: ,' ' ~· ' ,,.1 ,, ·' '::!1 . -~ ~ ' ,, .ci; l .. I ' ' . .. \ tl •'' ~' <, >:: . ; -

j e 0 • it o£ lly -, ·~ 'r, \ i '-.~ .. .. ,' ' ~· ':.?:1 ''.~·. ' ' ... ·, /. l .. I ' l '. f .·\ I ' \•;' ... ·.:. :\· <, ···.: . ; For College Men OF COURSE WE ARE EN- DEAVORING to conduct t~is pharmacy in a matter that wtll please all. However 'Y~ can safely say that the student wtl:l find much here to interest him. Come in and become acquainted. Our Fountain is well known for the gc<>dness of the ~hings which are served there and tt has many friends on the Hill. Ask the Other Fellow Cor. STATE & CEN!TRE STS. Steefel Broa. ALBANY Don't Guess, Buy With Your Eyes Open. You will have a new suit or overcoat this Fall. Are you, like other men becom- ing impatient with the d-elays and disap- pointments of made to order, guess - what - you - get clothes? Then come to Steefels-see how you will look BEFORE you buy.....-and save some money. Suits and Overc()ats $IO to f,6o. Established 28 Years ''UJJ .to the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes\ Y·ou are a College Man Let us snow you what \class'' goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity brothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your chum.s. STULL BROS., Tailors Opp. Old Past lffice 15 8 Jay Street Jattnu & ijall &.rlJtUtttallu. N. v. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coNCORDY

W~e i!jnmptnu Alhnuy THE LARGEST ASso~RTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 467 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. R. P. THORN & SONS JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET SAY \YOU SAW IT IN THE \CON CO RD\Y ALBANY, N. Y. - ' ' ':'·.,-:.) ' . ' ' ·--~ ·• . ' - , . . . , ' '. { ' . '\ i '.' 1 ·., ' ,, -•',

....... ,' .; ' ·' ' : :, . . , ' '. { ... , ' . ,., 'i i ',· t .. • 'I 1 ·., Evening Clothes for that Glee Club Trip $38.00 TO: '$7!5.;00 .J. J. HILLMAN ·61 7 State Street Union Boys : ' ' .. The ·best paper for your correspondence is ~CRANE'S LINEN 'LAWN· We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union :Seal, Garnet and Gold. The ·Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET SCHENENT ADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP. ''THE STUDENTS, FLORTST ·JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street THE KITCH·EN is the Ilorkshop of the Home You can no more expect to get modern results with the old style kitch~en than you can expect a manu- facturer to succeed with the tools of _yesterday. Successful home makers have found that the surest . way to get satisfactory results is to install the modern, all gas kitchen. 'Phone 2500 and one of our representatives will call and advise and show you how little it costs. Mohawk Gas Company UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Mille in the City of Schenectady. (. . OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY . ''·•',

I> i: ' ·i . r :, : j, : ! I . ·. ·.1· ! . . :J i , ; A ' I < ~' I ' 'i: ,: ' ' 't ) ., . i . ' I ! j THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE 'Come in and :Browse around The Sterling Art Shop The Picture, The Frame, The Wall Paper for your Room is here WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady Some of the Fellows won on the Athletics Sonte of the Fellows -won on the Giants But all of the Fellow-s win on WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J SAy YOU SAw IT IN THE \CONCORDY' I ' ,( <l ... ':~~ ' '·. ~ I' . ·' .. , . ':; :~:t ·~ . ·~ ', f .! ' ,•' ~ ... ' ~ . ' : '· ~ '. \ ., •' •' { .. ',; ' .. ;.;;!' -

- , .· :) ···,;·· ' ,( . ,''oi \· '> ·. ~ I' . ·' .. , . ~ ' _} . !. •,: I« ., . ' ~- . J A R ' . . z· . ' Oh. . t furnished music at Union College 1905', . . : ... Ita s rc; es ra 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'Io, 'II, '12 and 1913 Best Dan:ce Music in the World ·g~~·tt~~e~~~~~~ None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany ·--EUROPEAN-- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT 422 STATE STREET LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY ,0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and GJasses Fitte.d GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great difference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own green- houses right here in Schenectady by pat- . . rontztng W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone i 543-J 1ltutnu N atinualrBuuk L VQN's· The Store With Over 1 I 1 oo,ooo Pre~criptions. · Sole Agents for .Huyler's Bon Buns and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St • DANCING -Waltz, Two Step, Three Step & Bluebell taught in One Term MODERN DANCING The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons guaranteed, FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancing Arcade Hall, Near N. Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723-J Jrnf. 31. 31. 1Kilgulltu For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2lOO~W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street ····---------------~-------.---.----· SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY

'. ' t i . I: . I • I t; . I An Oil Heater is great for a chilly day. The perfection stove we offer at $3.00 The Rayo Lamp will not smoke, gives a strong, bright Ught-$1..98 ·COFFI·N BRO'S. 303-305 STATE STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N.Y. Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods :11. :11. UJijenrlt DELICA TBSSEN ., 'Joe'' caters to the stu.dent. Break· fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. Jo'hn' s Ch.urch To the American Colleges and Universities ~rom 'PHONE 298- W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Fe;llows come· down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirta and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for aU occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Beat Canes, Ba~s and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men f t: ~ I I Higgins' l Drawin' Inks Eternal Writing Ink En,rossin' Ink Taurine Mucilaa!e Photo Mounter Paste Drawing Board Paste Liquid Paste Office Paste V e'etable Glues, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST .I\KS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-srnelJing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and wi thai so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Visthn~ Cards W'eddi rt9\ Stahonery l3ustne Cards-Letter Heads Class Pins - M ono~r~1ms Crests , Coats \f Ar~s etc . .DEStGNEf\S .E NG\AVE.J\S SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE uCONCORDY '.- ! I . ''· .J I . . ,. .. 1 .. J. ,' ~~;··l.··-- .. ·~

) • • '': ' !.,: •! : Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies. :524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME ~rqrutda:by Art Jrtlta J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe • i. • ./> ' • • •• ' ' • 4 I ~· ' \ • The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow iri other Shoes. M.STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\ -GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. :Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACB TELEPHONE 4258-W \· .. ~ , :':·v•------------------ .. --------------- -- .. ·~ ., ·~<~}: SCKENECT .AOY ART Plllf.SS

. ; ;,~ . i J! . } l I , il . 'I '' ,1 Good Clothes SAY MEN: YJ e sell Hart, Schaffner .&t Marx Clothes, and you . . (. know that a store that sells·. H., S. & M. Clothes sells ~he right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to 'Year too.. If you look us over a little=: we think you'll like us. and our way of doing business. The Colle~e Clothier 240·44 State Street

t' ,it.~· ~=~~------------..ill...aL-.....oL.JII------- -------~ _!_• I .. ,. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COL.LEGE

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RlCHMOND, D. D., LL. D., Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Courses leading to the degree of A. :B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- · mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and is required for four years. 2. Course leading to the degree o:f Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. Six YEAR PH. B.-B. E. CouRSE.-This course com- bines the above four-year engineering course with the Latin -scientific course. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE o:F M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone CouRSE LEADING To DECl~:E:E o:F M. E. E.-This course of one year of gra clua.te study consists of lectures, laboratory practice a.nd research work. CouRSE J.,EADING To DEGREE i()lf! Pa:. D.-. This course of two years of graduate stu-<iy requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. er an equivalent. For catalogues or other i~~f<nmation address F. C. BARNES, Secret4:lry, Schenectady, N. Y~ DEP ARTl\tiENT Q]i' MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics,. laboratory vrork, prac- tical demonstrations and op~rations. Hospital and laboratory ad.vantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars co11.taining full in forma- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKERJ fv.l. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 diti.g wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to tl1e degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is di vicled into tw<> semesters. Expenses: Matriculatio:11 fee, $Io; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or othel' inf<>rmation, address: JoHN C. WNrSDM, Registrar,. Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OJ:~ PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE O:F PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction com~rising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving fun in formation,. address. WILLIAM A. LARKI N.J' :PH. G., Secretary 43 Ea..gle St., Albany, N. Y.· \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING'l6 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENN.ANTS, BANNERS AND PlL.l.OW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 466- J Fink's Pharmacy '~ The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ·I ... {!. '\ . <j.,~ ;?! ? . ;, j ~· ,. : >, -:t

s f e ts . lS e, . . ' . j: \,' :' I .. r . .. , ,. /, ( > ~~ ' :· ! Jt, ',' ,(::,'.;. r :·:: '· ;. !r: . ·~ . t i, .<;: ; ·~~· i .. · i: ;; !,' '• ;?! ; ? . ;. j ~· ,. ·< >, .} • F. W. Mullin 1. F. Leonard A. R. MuUin •PRO PRJ.ETORS •: ~~=~~, ~nuit& <t!nmpauy ; ' Clothing, Hats, Furs, T ronks, F umishings, and Bags · Rogers, P eet & Co's. Clothing. Auto and Carriage Livery 451 AND 453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS . . . . . Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N. Y. When you Break ~\.' .... ~'n • • I o ._ • .. - .,_. .. ! - \<r •·- ... ,. .. • your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY

====== 31 STEUBEN STREET====== HOME MADE LUNCHES E. H. SOUDER Jeweler .and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges & medals. Students effected with eye-strain and headaches should consult GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist SUITS !MADE TO ORDER '$20.00 to $40.00 _....;..·AT·-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, · • • President T. I. Van ANTWERP, - Vice-President M.AC NAUGHTON MI'LLER, Sec'y .-1'reas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, • General Counsel Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jlla;~a illuurl] Steuben St~ , Albany, N. Y. K. H. Solaghian Photographs ''Whi'le You '1'1 ait'' Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo - you'l:l appreciate it h:t~ter~ . . . · MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany. N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'' .'::. '· :. ' .

' ' '~:.: ' tl .. I '',f· '· :. ' . C,HAS. H. TURNER :Sportin:g Good.s Albaay, N. Y. METRO:POLITAN MOE DE WILDER Hatter and furnisher. 1ru11ks and leather Coods CLEANERS & DYERS . '''We do it as you like to bave it done\ 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. Office, 1 Z 4 Washingtoa Ava. Albany, II. Y. William J. Reinhart• McClure & Cowles Designer anti Maker of MEN'S c::LOTHES ·Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. :. 64 No. Pearl St.~ Albany, N. Y. RESERVED FOR The College :Print Shop JOHN A. FISHER \AT YOUR SERVICE,' . Opp. Whiting's Albany \0 B . · G · '' u,. . us1ness 1s roreJJ1lt Reliable DANKER Corsage Bouquets of ORC:HIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 a•d 42 Maiden L1111e SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CON CORDY

In the'' Wee ,Sma 'Hours'' When you're \cramming'' for an exam- When you're \boning'• for • a QUIZ- When your making up that • 'condition''- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c h e e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time,. day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co.· Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, • New York Orders For Bad-Fitting Clothes Are Decreasing Men spend their money for made- to-order suits that fit. They find they are much cheaper in the end. There is a demand fo,r better cus- tom tailorin~. We meet it fully SMITH & CLU'TE 1 CENTRAL ARCADE Hurley Shoes FOR MEN Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three essentials to perfect footwear satis· faction that every man hopes to get in the shoes they buy- and which they do get when making their sel- ection from our stock of Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 and $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 273 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'\ . •,,-

... . •,,- Witt fliamptnu Alb:auu THE LARGEST ASSORTMEN·T OF MEN'S HOSERT, UNDERWEAR.& SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-C'otton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a :fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 467 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. R. P. THORN & SONS JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS 'EVERYTHING IN Cups. AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE 11 CONCORDY ALBANY, N. Y.

. 1' 'l: '~ i i! I! i 1 l: l' I, I i . I i I I I: I: . I! • I: i i ·I I I'. ' ~ l ! ... i i I I I .. . i. SPORTING GOODS BlG STO'RE---'B·JO STOCK We :are Albany's Leading Distributors. Here you will find the largest line of Sportin:g and i\.thletic Goods in Alban.y. Every arti~cle seleeted .with care from the most popular lines. Quality the best ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC ~QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I an1 your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE U:NION of a Sophmore <>r Freshman with a few dollars which. will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasion~l deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~RN!! 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~: ~~~~ D. B. pAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11909078 11991134 College Representative Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts,\ Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street - :NOtch COLLAR A Graceful High Band Notch Collar 2 for 25 cts. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers SAY YOU S.A W IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

•,. ''',-, The Concordiensis OCTOBER 16, 1913 NO.2 UNION LOSES TO AMHERST AGGIE·S IN LAST TEN MINUTES OF THE GAME. Defense Breaks After Three Hard Fougb.t Quarters and the Farmers Won by a 20-0 Score. Breaking through the Union line like a circus-girl goes through a paper hoop, the Massachusetts \Aggies\ scored three touch- downs in the space of ten minutes in the fourth quarter of Saturday's game. For that short time the big grey team from Am- herst seemed to have the wearers of the Garnet groggy, and time after time line- plunges on the first down scored ten or more yards. With half the regular team on the sidelines Union's chances of victor,y were slight. Story only got in the game for a few moments during the last quarter while Wood had no chance to play at alL Page and Stoller each played a few mom- ents in the last quarter and \Peck\ Cleve- land's \Charley horse\ still balked. In the first part of the quarter, play began on the Union 20-yard line. Amherst advanced the ball to the five yard line and was penalized 15 yards for holding there. Darling, the Amherst right half-back, circled Union's left end for the first touchdown. Captain Brewer kicked the goal. Score: \Aggies\ 7; Union 0; At the kick-off Union seemed to have braced and held the hall in the center of the field for four downs. Union received the pigskin after a punt on the 50-yard line. Stoller, who had gone in at fun back in place of Roof at the close of the third quar- ter, made a big gain through the line, but the team lost the ball on a fumbled forward pass. Then followed a series of consistent, relentless line plunges in which Amherst carried the oval down the field to trre Union goal, sending Darling through for [be second touchdown. Captain Brewer missecl a com- paratively easy try for goal and the score stood \Aggies\ 13 ; Union 0. Fifty-five seconds after the ki~k-off, the grey team scored again, and the forlorn Garnet players could not block tl1e try for the goal. Score: \Aggies\ 20; Union 0. The whole period of scoring was included in ten minutes. Throughout the Iest of the game Union's players equaled if they did not excell the work of the bucolic gentle- men from Massachusetts. Throug-h()ut the first three quarters no advantage ~auld be found between the two teams. [t was a toss-up. The \Aggies\ mass plays were matched by Union's open style. Then suddenly came the climax; the Uni<>n line 'vas paper opposed to a machine-gun offense ; and the score tells the story.

~ ! ', I ; . t ' {: ; ' :! 1 ! ; !I I I ' ' i : ~ :I ! ! i I I' I i 1 ' ! l ; I! ' I ' . . ', I I: I l! . ' I ., ' ' t ' : t : '' . I: I I t ' : ' , I i i ' I : ' \ 1 , I 2 THE CONC.QRDIENSIS 'The first quarter developed a long drawn out punting duel in which Girling stood off Arnherst's men by long kicks that had the \Aggies\ chasing back tniles for the ball. On the kick-off Captain Brewer of Am- ' ' herst received the ball, but was placed an inch or so under the sod by Girling's hard tackle. The first play was a kick which Starbuck retrieved. Girling returned the compliment and the Union ends were down on the man who caught the ball be- fore he could start u pthe field. A number of kicks followed and the end of the quarter found the ball on Union's thirty-yard line. In the second quarter the Garnet boys pl:ayed a good gan1e. Amherst fumbled the kick-off, and in1media tely lost it on an at- tempted forward pass. Nissen was substi- tuted for full back Palmer. Captain Sar- vey slid around the right end for a nice ad- vance and Amherst was penalized five yards. After a few motnents play Girling punted again and Amherst made it a first down in three plays. Then Gardner, playing right tackle for Union, weaved through the Atn- herst line and threw Nissen for a loss. The Agriculturalist, Mr. S1nith, went in to play for Brewer at this point; but Brewer came back strong in the last quarter. Meanwhile Amherst had advanced the pigskin danger- ously near the Union goal. Sarvey, how- ever blocked a forward pass behind Union's goal, for a tackle touchback, and Union re- ceived the ball on her twenty-yard line. Girling pranced around the left end for a good gain. Right here Union· \pulled\ about the cleverest thing in the game. An observant person might have noticed \Dave\ Beaver on the side-lines listening carefully to Mr. Dawson. Anybody, observant or not, could have seen Beaver chase out onto the field, call tilne, introduce hitnself to the referee, and take Starbuck's place at quarter. I-Ie called a signa1l!' Jenkins at left end romped down the field about twenty yards and re- ceived a very neat pass from Beaver, and Union lined up about twenty-five yards nearer the AID:herst goal. Oh you Dave l Oh you Jenks\! ·Oh you Dawson! But that's aD the distance they got. Ref- eree Bird's Httl~e whistle blew just then and cut short one of Union''s best chances to score. While the two tearns are out in the gym having a little siesta, let us look around the field. Right h_ere one should say: It was perfect football weather. But it wasn't. The wind that sang around the stands didn't seem to get down to the :field where it was hot. The stude·n.ts' cheering sections were full and The Rand (accent on the The) was out in full for'<:e, blowing a little. On the terrace the au. torn o bile parking space was jammed. Bevies of the gentle sex swan11ed, or did whate-ver bevies do, in the cars and on the east stands. The air was filled with -no it vvasn't either. Those came along about the middle of the last quarter. But- well ; it was an a..ttspicious occasion. ( Apolo- gies to Johnny Bennet). \Buck\ Meneely was there and '\Stan\ Smith was there, and between thern they organized quite a little tnelody and cacaphony; also a parade which looked very mnc::ll 1 ike the Freshman peerade. However, there were some upperclassmen in it, at that. The parade lined itself up into a sort of angttlar serpent and gave vent to some cheers a::nd a little song-service in front of the east stand according to custom. Then the serpent had an attack of spon- taneous combustion and found itself en masse on the cheering sections again. And here cotnes the team! Now, all together, a Hika Hika for the team. Yes, Yes, go on. Mr. Bird of Yale blew his whistle and the teams met in the n1iddle of the field with the ball in U :nions' hands. Throughout this quarter Union played its best gatne. Right : I j I ·\ ! .! ,{ ~ f': ~ : I I I i • I i . ' l '. . ,·,, ~ I' ' ~, ',' ·. }: ·S ' ;,~ ·;· ~~ ·/

to ere t- nto to lll en a ' on. the ght :· ;, . ·:··:1 : I j I ·\ ! .! ,{ ~ f': ~ I I I i • I i . ' l '. }: ·S ' ., '·' ·;· '~ ·/ THE CONCORDIENSIS a way Roof ran the hall down the field f?r ten yards and then Girling followed su1t. First dovvn. Somebody got Strong of Am- herst, and took away his breath for a few .minutes. Sarvey went through for a few yards and Girling for a few n:ore through ·Curran. Fullback Roof made 1 t first down. Rio-ht dovv-n the fie1d they went as if noth.ing h could stop them. Then came a forvv-ard pass, a fumble, and it was the ''Aggies'\ ball. Jackson slipped through the ~ assa- chusett's team and got fuUback Nissen for a big loss. Mallen fell on the ball after a fumble but Union lost a forward pass. Stoller took Roof's place at full back; then the vvhistle b1e\v. 'l~he tl1ird quarter ~vas 1narked first by consistent gains by Union to An1herst's twenty-yard line and then by just as big gains by the \Aggies to the Union fifty-yard line. That fourth quarter doesn't count. Let's skip it. After the gatne it was a saddened crowd that filed off the field. The general im- pression was that experi.tnenting on the line had cost Union the gan1e. Jenkins played a good game at end, but it was noticed that n1ost of the \Aggies'' gains were through the line. Price played a consistent gatne while IIokerk never played a better. Page got in the garne for a few moments in the last quarter, taking Vroman's place at left guard. MaHan was on the job all aftErnoon hold- ing down the right end. Girting's second game of football confirmed the belief that he is a good man. Sarvey made consistent gains around Amherst's end, and disting- uished himself in defensive work. It may be noted that Union was only penalized once, nor were any of her men knocked out. The line-up : Mass. Aggies (20) Union (0) Edgerton . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J en k 1os L. E. :Curran . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . rlc:e P •· L. T. Strong .................... V rom au, 8a.,g-e L. G. Dole, Perry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ho,kerl< C. Baker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . J acks()n R. G. S h tt back Ga rd· ,1:111·e r c a : er . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.a R. 'r. Jordan, Plaisted ........... Mallen, Dow us R. E. 1\-Iellican ................. Starbuck, Beav-el' Q. Brewer (Capt.), :Smith ..... Sarvey (Ca)?t.) L. H. Dar ling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Giriing R. H. Palmer, Nissen ............... Roof, StoJ:l-et F. B. Referee-Bird, Yale. (Umpire) Touchdowns--Darling ( 3). Goals fr-om touchdowns-Brewster (2). DEBATERS ARE B·USY. The debating societies have once more 0(!- gun their work with great zeal. Both clubs are actively working up material for tb .. e: Allison-Foote debate, the date of which bas !1ot yet been set. A meeting of the .i\ .. delphics was held Fri- day afternoon in Silliman Hall, where regn- ~~r mPetingc;; will be held every F'riday at 4:30 P. M. The question at issue w;as, Resolved, that Schenectady should ada:l)t civic government by commission. T\h e affirmative was upheld by Blodgett '15, Page '15, and Turpet '16. The negative ):)y Taylor '16, Clark '15, and Fletcher '16 .

:I. :I '. I!, i: 4 THE CONCORDIENSIS The Philomathean ·met on Tuesday at 7:30 P. M. in Room 13, Washburn Hall. An informal discussion was held on the question as to whether sex education should be intro- duced into the curriculum of the public schools. Professor lVIcKean addressed the meeting. Several freshmen have already joined the de bating clubs and all those who are inter- ested in debating are urged to tatend the n1eetings. Not a man in college can afford to miss this training in practical debating. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. The Cosmopolitan club held its initial 1neeting last Vv~ ednesday evening. At this time plans for the current year were dis- cussed and new ideas, which will be per- fected later were brought forth. 'rhe mem- bers are all urged to make this year the best one in the history of the organization. PRESS CLUB ACTIVITIES. Several very enthusiastic meetings of the Press Club have been held this terni. There are about twenty freshn1en trying out for membership in the club. With this new force, and a goodly number of last year's men, all working hard, the officers of the club feel that a great deal of good can be accon1plished this year. The object of the club is to place Union bef;ot1e prospective students, \the Alun1ni, and the general reading public. Even this early in the year a great deal of news has been sent out to the newspapers. The club has now under consideration the publication of a \Union College Song Book,\ and the annual Press Club Calendar. \Doc\ Howell is chairman of the song book com- tnittee, and Arthur l-1oeb has the calendar in charge. Coach Dawson and Mr. Waldron have spoken b:efore the club, and! have given many valuable suggestions which are bound to help greatly towards a more efficient organization. illn his talk, l\4r. \tValdron en- couraged each. man to do his best. The work of the club means a great deal to the college; there is not much g~lory attached to the office, but each man must be satisfied in knowing he is doing the college a good ser- . VlCe. The success of the club actually depends on the support of the student body. If every student supports the club publications, it \vill benefit the club financiaHy and enable it to enlarge its field of activity. MUSICAL CLUBS PLAN TRIPS. Judging from the number and quality of men who ha-ve reported for active work in the musical clubs this fall, a season of ex- cellent results is absolutely certain. Sixty men, in fact, are out for the clubs and among these are quite a number of exceptionally good voices. Mr. Bernard R. Mausert, who has just returned fron1 Europe after a two years study in Berlin and London, is coach- ing the songsters and feels certain that the club, under the able leadership of S. M. Sn1ith '15, will not only be able to keep up its previous high standard of quality, but will readily surpass what has been done in . prev1ous years. Mr. Goggin is coaching the instrun1ental musicians, and they seem to be getting into fine shape already. Most of the new music 1s of a higher grade than ever used before by the club and both leadeTs, Evans '14 of the Mandolin Clttb and Hawley '14 of the Banjo Club are confident that their parts of the program will be excellent features. A spec- ial feature of the concerts will be a solo by MacMillan '15, the accomplished young vio- linist. Managet Mudge '14 assisted by MacMillan '15, has succeeded in arranging an excellent schedule which is not q;uite complete at the present time. The Thanksgiving trip, \13ill\

to in it it of . 111 ex- ch- the M. up but . 10 . the . the by . the ' :, . •·Ail! '.'-'tt ·,.:.;~{~ ·~.-,..~(~r ':· ::,; ~ <If · . . :·~ : .. ,:',i · .. ' :::.~~: < ~t: 1:'. ; '~ . , ' ' .~t ' .... ';' :.~ 1 1'HE CONCORDIENSlS 5 reports, will include Brooklyn, Freepo,rt, Flushing, Eln1ira, Afton and probably one or two other cities. Besides these, concerts will be given at Ballston, Scotia, Amster- dam, Glens Falls and Hoosick FaBs. It is not yet known whether or not a Christmas trip wiU be taken, but if the keen competi- tion for places, which is being shown now, continues and the enthusiasm of the mem- bers of the clubs remains at its present high pitch, there is small doubt that there will be a very good schedule arranged for the Christmas season. SATURDAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES. (Union's opponents in heavy type.) Syracuse 6; Rochester 0. Yale 27; Lafayette 0. Haverford 6; Stevens 0. Hamilton 13; N. Y. U. 0 . Pennsylvania 20; Swarthmore 00 Colgate 48; Hobart 0. Fordha1n 0; R. P. I. 6 . Tufts 13; Wesleyan 0. Princeton 28; Bucknell 6. Army 29; Rutgers 0. Carlisle 7; Cornell 0. Navy 23; Georgetown 0 . Dartmouth 33; Vermont 17. NATURE. \tV hen the sun has dropped o'er yon hill Leaving nature's arts sweety still, When the sky burns with the sun's death And night pours forth its cooling breath, When fragrance drifts upon the air Emanating from everywhere, \!Vhen every woodland feathered breast Bursts forth in song to attest How sweet it is but to be , ~ part of Life's great mystery; ·T1s then into the lane I steal And wrap myself in nature's weal ' Toss my thoughts upon the breeze, Fill my soul with subtile ease, Lull myself in mood so sweet, Make 1ny heart with rapture beat As infused with wondrous flow Of ethereal grace I grow. The secret of this charm I try, Not to probe-· only vie, Only feel its gracious might, And bow my soul in holy rite. For 'tis not by scientific quest Man con-res to know nature best, But he who feels her mighty force Is he who is part of her course. -I~ewis '17. Ralph D. Morgan '14, of Buffalo, was mar- ried to Miss Emma Johnson of Albany in that city, June 14, 1913. Mr. and Mrs. Mor- gan will reside in this city till June, when, after his graduation, they will return to make their home in Buffalo. Riley Hamilton Coons, ex '14, of Burnt I-Iills, was married on September 18th to Miss Amelia Miller of Albany. Mr. and Mrs. Coons are making their home in Burnt Hills where Mr. Coons is a partner with his father in the dairy business. FRATERNITIES ENTERTAIN. There were several enjoyable functions on the Hill Saturday after the Massachusetts Aggie garne. Psi Upsilon gave an informal tea, several alumni and faculty n1en1bers be- ing present. The patronesses were Mrs .. G . M. Clow and Mrs. Weed. Chi Psi also gave a tea, the patronesses being Mrs. W. R. Brown and Mrs Cletnents. Alpha Delta Phi and Sigma Phi enter- tained guests at their chapter houses after the game at informal teas. Delta Upsilon held an informal tango-tea and dinner party. Mrs. H. H. Murdock, Jr., was patroness.

THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary an.d News Weekly· Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF three vveek~ n1ore training than the Garnet ·eleven. 'rhe gam:e Saturday was lost in ten :minutes of flurry after the visitors had for three quarters, been unable to reach within striking distance of the Garnet goal. Our men went up in the air for a few minutes but those few minutes gave the \Aggies'' the H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Raymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi ·upsilon House. ATHLETIC EDITOR Roblee H. Vaughan, 'r4, Delta Phi House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, Asst. Business Manager, Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. OUR FOOTBALL TEAM. Our football team has played three games and lost two of them. T·o anyone looking at the £gures alone, it would seem that we had made a poor start and that our team is weak. But there is where figures lie. Coach Dawson has a stronger, faster aggregation than last year when Union lost but one game. The men are playing harder, work- ing togethe.r better and getting into action .. mor·e quickly than last year. We have a team to be pround of and we are proud of them. The Rutgers ga1ne we lost because we were outplayed by a team with almost game. Now, l.iVe tackle Wesleyan Saturday and although Wesleyan has a fast, heavy team, the Varsity is deter,mined to win that game if it is possible. fl.ere is where the college can help. Lets get out on the bleachers, not only Saturday, but every afternoon and stand back of that team every minute. Those men are sacrificing things to play on that team. They are giving their best; both in muscle and in brains, to the college and it is the only thing for us to do to stand be- hind them now. The true Union spirit al- ways shows up by backing a teatn more after a lost game than after a victory. So we say to the student-body, \Stand loyally behind your eleven. It is fighting for you.\ And to the team we say, \Keep up your fight. We are all behind you all the time, win or lose.\ T'O THE SENIOR CLASS. We are very glad to know that the, student-body has settled the election of the Terrace Council in such an amicable manner. The senior class, with which the n1atter has been ·most vitally connected, is to be compli- mented for being united in overlooking some of the disagreeable incidents which have occurred. This fact is certainly a most con- vincing evidence of the spirit which is the basis of Union. ,f, ' CJ,, li •. ~~ . .. 1' .•

j e 1- \ e, as ve he ~' 1 ·.,i ., :.['. \'·, ti '. ' ~ . '\ 1' .• WQe Wtrratt (!!nuuril 1913-14 JOHN T. HOWELL FRANK D. BARCLAY DALTON V. SARVEY STEPHEN B. STORY H. HERMAN HITCHCOCK STANLEY L. WALWORTH GEORGE E. LEWIS

I i ' r ; THE CONCORDIENSIS 7 w·e hope, sincerely, that members of the senior class wiH be very prompt in blotting out all feelings of injury for the sake of Union and the class of 1914. It is most essential that the class of 1914 he' graduated with that fine spirit which carried it so suc- cessfully through all its underclass re- lations, if it is to be an honor to Union as an alumni body. W P, are close enough in touch with the efforts of the Graduate Council to realiz.e most keenly how necessary unity and good feeling are in a graduated class. The power of the alumni interest as manifested through unified classes acting constantly for the for- ward march of Union, is more evident today than it ever has been before in the history of our college. We hope that the seniors wiU keep this fact constantly in mind during the remainder of this year that the class 1914 may be graduated a really live and working body for Old Union. T. L. E. STUDENTS RATIFY ELECTION. Terrace Council Election Again Brought Before the :Student-Body and Same Three Men Are Chosen. At the college meeting held Monday noon, a final election was held to determine the rightful members of the Terra.ce Council. An election was held earlier in the fall by the senior class and three men were picked for the Council. Later it was discovered that this election was unconstitutional as the Terrace Council constitution states that the three men must be elected by the stu- dent-body. Accordingly an election was held at college meeting,. :Qct. 6th, and an- other three men were cbosen for this honor. This second election lead to some dis- cussion as to the authenticity of the Council Constitution· and to end this talk, a meeting of the men elected and those chosen in the spring was held, at w11i~h meeting it was decided to put the matter to the student- body for a third vote and to :make this vote final. Accordingly, the election was held Monday and Dalton Vane Sarvey, Stanley L. Walworth and H. Herman Hitchcock, tlie men whom the college had chosen a week previously, were again picked for the Council. TERRACE COUNCIL OFFICERS. The Terrace Council met Wednesday noon in Silliman Hall to organize and to dis- cuss several important matters. The officers elected by the Council were : President, Stephen Bond Story; vice-president, John T. Howell, Jr. ; secretary-treasurer, H. Herman Hitchcock. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. Last Sunday's vesper service was ad- dressed by Dr. Ward. His subject was \Social Service.'' This was the first service of the fall term to be held in Jackson Gar- den. (It was hoped that the weather would be favorable for holding the service in the garden, but it was necessary to hold it in the College Chapel instead.) On l\Ionday, October ·Gt:h~ a Cabinet Meet- gin was held in Silliman HaiL The plans for the Student Bible Study Classes; which are to be given soon after November, were

8 T.HE CONCORDIENSIS discussed more fully. Ennis ·14 has the Bible Study work in charge and in making plans for a very enthusiastic course of study during the winter months. More. definite this heat and cram our heads full of nonsense for that exam tomorrow.\ \No use kicking now, Randy,'' sa.id Bob. plans wHl be announced later. The Association is planning to hold the first \get together meeting\ on t-]aUowe'en night, Friday, October 31st. The whole col- lege is cordially invited, and Secretary Niale, who is in ~charge hopes that every feUow will be there in order to make it a success. \I knew we should have studied., but we didn't and if we expect to pass u. p this course, we've simply got to grind through this stuff tonight. Oh, Lord what a .J:ob! A whole term's work to do in one nigltt. Did you ever go to any of Offy's lectur,es?\ ALUMNI NOTES. At the annual con1mencement n1eeting of the trustees of Hobart College, held last June, Rev. John B. Hubbs, D. D., D. C. L., Union '77, was elected chaplain oi the col- lege and a n1ember of Phi Beta Kappa. 1-Ie · will also give courses in English and Bible history. Dr. Hubb was formerly rector of St. Peter's church, Geneva, N. Y. LOGIC. It was in June, early in the evening, and the weather was unbearably hot. The sun had not yet gone down, but shone like a great red ball above th~ tree-tops to the west of the \Hill.\ Two students sat in their sultry room, collars off, sleeves rolled to the elbows, each poring over a huge volume. One of the boys, rose from the table where he had been studying, and slamming down his b:)ok, went to the window. Sitting on the stll, he lit a cigarette and seern ed to find comfort in exhaling its pale blue smoke. The other youth looked up from his book. \Tired Bob?\ he asked, wearily. \This stuff is fierce, isn't it? If we had only boned up on this blarned logic course, during the term, and cut out a few of those parties at the 'Crown,' we wouldn't have to sit here in all I i I I J =· t6E - SLEPT! \Everyone but I slept thro11gh most of them. Eight o'clock is too early in the morning for a lecture.\ \Vvhy not go over to Al's room? The rest of the fellows are over there, holding a little party for this exam, and we might pick up enough dope to bluff through t()morrow.\ \Not much, that session will probably con- sist of a thorough bawling out (){ Offy and the Faculty in general, and then the bunch will adjourn to Cavanaugh's.\ \What are the true conceptions of science, asked Randy, dreamily? The book makes I .

. gh A - of the The a pick \ con- and ' :. 'I ·' ' ~· I . THB. :CONC·ORDIENSIS 9 -constant reference to the '''true conc;eptions,\ and I never even knew there was such a '•h\ , t ·tng. \Oh rats, Offy gave us a long spieJ on that in the first lecture. l've forgotten it now and I didn't take any notes. Hang this stuff anyway l Let's go down town and catch a few beers; it's too hot up here to study; my brains are baking.\ Randy, finally agreed, reluctantly and they journeyed downtown 1or a 'cooler.' The sun was streaming brightly through the windows when Randy awoke the next day. He rolled over groaning and pulled his watch from under the pillow. Then he shouted to his sleeping roommate, who lay, half dressed on the coach near by: \Bob get up. It's ten o'clock and old Offy's exam has been going on for two hours. Good Lord, how my head aches. Here we not only fail to study, but we don't even show up for MISSED IT. the exan1. It's a stick for both of us, as sure as fate. This is a fine mess. I don't see why you wanted to go to that- Oh Lord, my head r Bob, lazily rose to one elbow, iooked about him, half dazed, and then sank wearily hack on the couch. \What's that ?\ he draw1ed. \What are you talking about? Can't understand you. Shut up ! Go to sleep!\ and he dozed again. \But Bob\ cried Randy, \Offy's exam! We've :missed it.'' \Huh said Bob, sitting bolt upright. \That's so-Offy's exam and we've sure missed it. What time is it?\ ··ren o'clock and the exam was called for eight sharp. This is a nice mess. What'll we do now?\ \Nothing we can't stroll in at this hour. We-\ He was interrupted by a knock at the door and the mail man's whistle. Two letters were shoved under the door. Randy picked them up, read the addresses, handed one to Bob and tore open the other. As he read, his face lighted up with a smile, then a broad grin spread over his counten- ance, and finally he gave vent to his over- joyed emotions by doing a war dance around the room, and yelling at the top of his voice. The letter read: \Dear Sir: Owing to the unusually good work which my class in logic has done during the last term, I have decided not to hold any final exan1ination in this subject. As a whole, the class has done admirably well during the term, and deserves this exemption from final examination. I only arrived at this de- cision tonight, and am using the n1ail to in- form the metnbers of my class, as I am 1 eaving for Europe ton1orrow morning. The registrar has been notified to give you your marks in my subject. Yours truly, Prof. Offy .\ ..

10 THE CON CO RDtE.NSI:S When the rejoicing had died down some- what the lucky students, with heads to- gether, and with arn1s punctuating their sharp cheer, gave a long yell for Offy.\ A. D. S. CROSS-COUNTRY RUN WITH COLGATE. Captain Mudge reports excellent prospects for a winning cross-country teatn this year. There are about twenty men out all of whom show up well in the trial runs vvhich have heen held. Those who are especially prom- 1siag ar'e Mudge, Howell, Sherrnan, Blod- gett, Rollins, Newton, Gunning, Friday, Harvey and Hoffman. The team owes much to the careful training- given it by Dr. \Mac\ and \Eddie\ Felthousen. On October 25, there will be a run held here over the regular course with the Col- gate team, just before the Rochester game. The men for this run have not been chosen as yet but will probably be from those nan1ed above. DELTA U. CONVENTION. H. Herman Hitchcock '14 and Ernest B. Houghten '15 left today for Rochester where they will attend the seventy-ninth conven- tion of the Delta Upsilon fraternity, as dele- gates from the Union chapter. The con- vention program contains in addition to the usual business, a smoker, a ball at the Hotel Seneca and a banquet besides other smaller jtetns. --·- UNIVERSITY DAY. Poultney Bigelow, well known here as one of Union's greatest friends, and son of the late John Bigelow who had for so long been Union's oldest alu~mnus, will give an address on \Queen Louise and her Centen- ary of Gern1an Liberty\ at the University Day exercises in the college chapel at 4 o'clock, Thursday afternoon. Honary de- grees will be conferred on CoL Clarence P. Townsley of the class of 1876, Cotnmandant of West Point, and upon Howard Melville Hannah of the class of 1860. Preceeding the exercises the Board of Governors and the Board of ~\[ rustces will meet in the President's office. A football gan1e between the Albany Law Department and the 'Varsity second teatn is scheduled for two o'clock in the afternoon. GARNET BOARD ORGANIZES. At a meeting of the Garnet Board held in the Press Club room, Tuesday evening, :Qct. 7, the various assistant editors were .elected and plans were discussed for making the 1915 garnet the very best obtainable. Henry A. Faust '15 editor-in-chief of the junior class publication and D. B. Page '15, busi- ness manager, have determined to give the college a Garnet which will reflect the pro- gress of the old college. The officers cho.sen were: L.iterary edi- tor, A. G. Martin; arts editor, T. P. Keating, Jr.; athletic editor, H. J. Delchamps; secre- tary, C. V. Brewster; assistant business manager, W. A. Hughes; associate editors, W. I-I. lVIandeville, H. S. Hawn, Hazen Hun- ter, Roger MacMillan, F. S. Randles, G. 0. Vosburgh. COLLEGE CALENDAR. Thursday, Oct. 16. University Day. 4 :00 P. M.-Faculty Meeting. l. t·. I r! I h ..

ve an at 4 de- P. elville of will in :Qct. lected the junior busi- the e pro- edi- secre- siness Hun- G. 0. l. t·. I r! , I l:' . I <. ' THE CONCORDIENSJ:S 11 5 :30-6 :30 P. M.-Reception for Col. full of exci,ternent over the prospect of ap- pearing :in public as \I-Ionest Bill\ Sulzer or \September Morn.\ The take-offs on col- lege. and public celebrities are to be un- n~ually clever and interesting. The com- rnittee in charge is: TownsJey at the Delta Upsilon House. · Friday, ·Oct. 17. 4 :30 P. M.-· · Adelphic Debating Society meets in Siiiiman Hall. 7 :30 P. M.-· Mandolin Club rehearsal in SiUitnan Hall. Randies, chairman. 8:30 P. M .. -English Club meets in Wash- burn Hall. MaclVIillan, Purdy, Saturday, Oct. 18. 2:30 P. M.-Freshman Pee-rade. 3:30 P. M.-vVesleyan vs. 'Varsity on the Campus. Sunday, Oct. 19. 4:.30 P. M.- Y. M. C. A. Vesper Services in Si11iman HalL Several studen.ts wHl speak. Monday, Oct. 20. 12 :00 M.-College Meeting in the Chapel. 7:00 P. M.-Glee Club Rehearsal in Silli- man Hall. i' :LS P. M.-Concordiensis Board meets in Silliman Hall. Tuesday, Oct. 21. 1 :00 P. M.- Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Meeting in Silliman I-Iall. 7:1.5 P. M.-Philomathean Debating So- ciety n1eets in Silliman Hall. Wednesday, Oct. 22. 4:00 P. M.-J\Ilandolin Club rehearsal in Silliman Hall. 7:15 P. l\1.-Press Club n1eeting in Wash- burn Hall. FRESHMAN PEE-RADE. The annual :Freshman Pee-rade will be held Saturday afternoon before the W es- reyan game. The committee in charge is devoting it's whole time to making the Pee.- rade a memorable one. The freshmen are entering into the spirit of the thing and are Hughes, Hunter, Faust, Baldy, _ Duane, Sub-committees. Smith, F. L. Gerard, Randles, Godfrey, Mandeville,. Boyce. SOPHOMORE CLASS OFFICERS. The sophomore class held a meeting last week and elected the following officers: President, Carl F. Danner; vice-president, George G. Mercer; secretary-treasurer, J. H. Soler; manager of athletics, N. A. Finch, Jr. EXTEND SYMPATHY TO IENGAR. It was voted by the student-body Mon- day, that a committee be appointed to write I. N. Iengar, '13, who was severely burned two weeks ago at the Pittsfield plant of the General Electric Company, and extend to hin1 the sympathies of the student-body. Iengar was valedictorian of the class of 1913 and after graduation in June entered the test at the local plant of the General Electric Company, where he worked during the sum- mer. This fall he was transferred to the Pittsfield plant, where he was injured two weeks ago. Mr. Iengar was a very popular member of his class and has many friends on the hill.

' , I , , I ' For College Men OF COURSE WE ARE EN- DEAVORING to conduct this pharmacy in a matter that will please all. However we can safely say that the student will find much here to interest him. Co·me in and beco,m.e acquainted. Our Fountain is well known for the goodness of the things which are served. there and it has many friends on the Hill. Ask the Other Fellow Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bro& ALBANY Don't Guess, Buy With Your Eyes Open. You will have a new suit or overcoat this Fall. Are you; like other men becom- ing impatient with the delays and disap- pointments of made to order, guess - what - you -get clothes? Then come to Steefels-see how you will look BEFORE you buy-and save some money. Suits and Overcoats $Io to $6o. Established 28 Years ''Up to .the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes'' You are a College Man Let us show you what \class\ goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity brothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your chums. STULL BROS.·, Tailors Opp. Old Post Office 158 Jay Street Jlattnu & l;all SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ I r : [, , ) '

'' th ~rs ou ,, r : I •· l· 1 '. PARSONS' OR·CHESTRA Mu·s~ic F urnishie~d for all Occasions Telep·hone 213 1-J 310 State Street, Scheaectady The Manhattan CO·. Engleman & Bellinger 142 STATE STREiET. A CGmplete department food stere T:me best in everything for the ·table at the lowest cash :prices Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company [j] Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey- Freeman Quality Clothin·g, Oakes Bros.' Sweaters Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A \SQUARE DEAL\ _ for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S Uldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pa ng ros. 520 5th Ave .• New York Send for Catalogue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ARE YOU WEARING ENDWELL SHOES We believe you'll regret it later on if you're not. Endwell Shoes are so vastly superior to other shoes . and so greatly cheaper, we know some day you will feel impelled to wear, at least, one pair. But Why Wait Until Some Future Time? Thousands of people right here in this vicinity have been enlightend that Endwell Shoes are capable of giving Longer and More Satisfactiory Wear. Furthermore, you pay no jobber's or middlemen's profit -for that reason you save SOc to $1 ~00 on • every patr. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded 206 So. Centre Street. Toilet Articles Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY i ., :· i:

Visit o.ur We ,Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WEBER Victor Parlor Cluett & Sons AND PIANO:LA PIANOS ., ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE 508 STATE ST.. SCHEN·ECTADY. N.Y. WHERE \If It's Made of RUbber We .Have It\ Everybody Gets Shoes Mended . Our prices are no more than ·elsewhere, and we give you the best material and workmanship. We make a specialty of repairing all kinds of rubbers. Work called for and delivered Free of charge. Shoes sewed by hand if desired. Open evenings - Saturday ·until 10 o'clock. m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto G.oods Auto Tires l!J Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works · Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street 229 State Street Telephone 34 56 23 Stores H 0 L TZ MAN's LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADI_.ER-R,OCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES [i] French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schsnectad~ 's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY''

AY ~ .A - It'' o. res 'S rn. ). Evening Clothes for that Glee Club Trip $38.00 TO $'75.00: J. J. HILLMAN 617 State Street Union Boys, The best paper for your ~correspondence is CRANE'S LIN'EN LAWN We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal, Garnet and Gold. 'The Miniature Brass Sb.ields Just Arrived THE KIJC,H'EN is the Workshop of the :Home You can no more ~expect to tet , The Gleason Book Co. modern results with the old style 1 0 4 JAY STRgET kitchen than you can expect a manu- facturer to succeed with the tools of SCHENENTADY'S i yesterday. Successful home makers : have found that the surest way to LEADING FLOWER SHOP'. get satisfactory results is to install , the modern, all gas kitchen. ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street 'Phone 2500 and one of our . representatives will call and advise and show you how little it costs. Mohawk Gas Company UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHO~NE SAY YOU SAW IT lN THE \CONCORDY

: ' : I I ' I I '- • I , I i l 1 THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N. Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and, after the pl .. y Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 tot; o'clock Abo THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N .. Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE Come in and Browse around The Sterling Art Shop The Picture, The Frame, 'The Wall Paper for your R<>om is here WILLlAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady Some of the Fellows won on the Athletics Some of the Fellows won on the Giants But all of the Fellows win on WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 144·t-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ' 4 CONCORDY•' 1 ' I,

- tE - p - - - - r. A R •. z· ·t· . ' 0·. ··h (. furnis. h.· ed .music at Union Co.llege 1905, . e e l a S . 'rc ·es. ra '06, '07, '08, '09, '10, '11, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music ;in the World M~~· tt~~~t~!~~~;: None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., AJ:bany --EUR~OPEAN-- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Di~ning Rooms J W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great difference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own green- · hou.s~s right here in Schenectady by pat- · rontztng W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J ]tubttt N atinunl iauk LYON 'S The Store With Over . · 1oo.,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agen.ts for Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. 422 STATB ST~EET LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and ·GJasses Fitted DANCJ:NG Waltz, Two Step, Three Step & Bluebell taught im One Term MODERN DANCING The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons ~uaranteed. FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancin• Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723-J Jrnf. J. J. 1Ktlgalleu For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2108-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY

An Oil Heater .is great for a chilly day. The perfection stove we offer at $3.00 The Rayo Lamp will not smo~e, gives a strong, bright ligbt-$1.98 COFFI·N ·BROS. 303-305 ST .A1'E .STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers ·of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the· .American Colleges and U niveraitiea ~rom the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a spec1alty Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Fe;llows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirta and Collars, Fownes' Glove• for all occasions, Opera and Silk hate, Beat Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men J. :11. OJ4tarlt D·ELICA. TESS EN \Joe''' ·caters to the ·student. Break· fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'PHON:E 298-W Higgins' 722 EASTERN AVE. ( I ~ Drawinal Inks Eternal W ritin' Ink Enalrossinal Ink Taurine Mucilate Photo Mounter Patte I Drawinj! Board Paste ·I Liquid Paste l Office Paste V ealetable Glues, etc. ARE THE' FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and Hl-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Yisthnq TfLfPHoHt:. Car'ds 2 EJJ' w \Jeddinf Statton~ry 'Su~nne s Cards-LetterHeads Class Pins -Mono(rams Crest-s . Coats of Ar~s etc:. J)ESIGNEf\S £ NGf\AVE.~S SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ '· ,') .'.·' .. :·

V'E. - ·.nk etc. YES rro- lhe- N'KS >e a ·eet, so 0. Y. - Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motollcycle and Au~om.obile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret A~ency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREiET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME ~r~rurrtu~y Art Jress J. H, COMO, Prop. 20& S(). Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J - TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. ''THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Scl.enectady Get Tomorrow's Style To·d.ay in a Regal Shoe ' ... l\ ; ~· • • • ' ' • > • •• The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow in other Sh()es. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St.. Sche11ectady The· Newland- Yon Ritter Company :PRIN.TBRS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, :Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH AVENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Secr;t~tls From The' Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and aitered. Bring it here and it will be done Yight. Work called. for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 42e58-W

sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you , know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little:: we think you'll like us and our way of d()ing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street ~ 8CHKNIICTADY AlllT PRI£88 ''

eet PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE • The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses leading to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and Gern1an are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and is required for four years. 2. C6urse lea(Hng to the degree tOf Ph. B. LATIN -SciENTIFic CouRSE-This course offers l,atin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science .. 3. Course leading t& the degree o:f 8. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree o1 B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. Srx YEAR PH. B.-B. E. CouRsE.-This course com- bines the above four-year engineering <:ourse with the Latin-scientific course. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. :J. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRsE L'EADING ro :DEGRE~ oF M. E. E.-This course .of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and ,research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DEG:REE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For cata'logues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa .. tion sent on application to: • WILLIS G. TucKIC:R, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, J. NEWTON Fr~Ro, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIo. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARNlACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full inform.ation, address. Wn~UAM A. LARKIN, PH. G., Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. uEverything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Ha 11 Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ,.CONCORDY •• ! i _,',,i ;, ; ' !. ~. . . ~ I i

E.-This nsists of course admis- N.Y. by prac- in forma .. r, N.Y. Dean. of state to its B. is esters. fee, address: N.Y. of seven dress. N.Y. 96-W ., _: ! i ·. ~ ·. I .. i . Clothing, Hats, 'Furs, Trunks, F umishings, and Bags Rogers, P eet & Co's. Clothing. Auto and Carriage Livery • 451 AND 453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N. Y. F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin PROPRIETORS · ~ttuit& C!!nmptttty ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, ·rr~ PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N. Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET

' I. I, \' I' ! I I' I J ,, ; ! I I ' I• I ! ,, i I ~ 'i ,: Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM S·PHCIALISTS 3 1 Steuben Street, E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and ~Optician 99 North Pearl St~reet ALBANY Special work in class pin.s, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-s train and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN~ Optometrist tog No. Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $2·0.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller 9 S 34 :and 36 MAIDEN LA~NE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER., Sec'y .-Treas. Main office, 47 State St. • Jln~u 11Juur~ Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-President ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, .. General Co.anael Park Branch, 200 Washington K. H. Solaghian Photographs ''While You Wait'' Fellows: Drop -in for an informal photo - you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albanr, N.Y. AL'BANY A~T UNION Photogra phs---Artlstl c 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SA.Y YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\ '', '., ·, \,, 0 : ' •' ': •, ~ ··, ·' i' '

sed . , s •t\ 10 Y. Y. I I ' ·, ', i ' ' I~ CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. ·MOE DEWILDE; :Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Coods , 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. METROPOLITAN CLEANERS & DYE~S \We do it as you like to have it done .. Of,fice, 124 Washington Ava. Albany~ ·Jt Y • William J. Reinhart· McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. liJf1e C!!nllege 'lint &~np 44 Nn. Jrarl 6trert Alhauy. N.l. Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. \Root for Jack\ FISHER'S 2nd SHI~TS 50c lluttrt <Jrotrs, jl(emu. QJ:atalngutJ · ll2 No. Pearl St. Albany \Our Business is Growing\ Reliable DANKER Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 o•d 42 Maiden Lane SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coNCORDY••

In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you're ''cramming\ for an exam-- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that ''condition''- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectad~ Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Order• For Bad-Fitting Clothes Are Decreasing M'ell spend their money for made- to-order suits that ,fit. They find they are much cheaper in the end. There is a demand for better cus- tom tailoring. We meet it fully S:MITH & CLUTE 1 CENTRAL ARCADE Hurley Shoes FOR MEN Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three essentials to perfect footwear sa tis· faction that every man hopes to ge_t in the shoes they buy- and which they do get when making their sel- ection from our stock of Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 and $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 2 73 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coN GORDY' • I '. I . . I .

I '' I .· I ~ \ I . ' I . II • r < ;. ·~ The Concordiensis VOL. 37 OCTOBER 23, 1913 NO.3 WESLEY AN 16, UNION 0. Deetjen and Eustis Land the Victory for the Black and Red. Union Sho·ws Won- derful Improvement, Espec- ially in Offense. vv·esleyan's heavy team hammered out a 16 to 3 victory over the wearers of the Gar- net Saturday afternoon in the best and fast- est game played on the campus this year. For three periods Union outclassed its opponents, and had it not been for Deetj e.n, Wesleyan's clever quarter, the fourth and decisive period might have been a d1fferent issue. Deetjen it was who s-cored two touchdowns in that quarter, each time by long runs through a broken field. Cap- tain Eustis, fullback of the black and red team, tallied the other four points-a goal from placement in the second quarter and a try for goal after Deetj en's first touchdown. Union's three points were made by Hickok in the early part of the last quarter on a pretty field goal. The forward passing of Beaver and the ·receiving of Starbuck was a feature .of the game. These two pulled a number of daz- zling plays, and it was a rare occurence when the forward passing went astray. Captain Sarvey was injured late in the game, but has fully recovered and expects to be in the line-up next Saturday against Rochester. The enthusiasm and spirit of the stude.nt sections was the best seen here this year, and the team played up with real dash and spee.d. Altogether, Saturday's game leaves no cause for depression among the student- body. The cheering sections, the East stand and the auto parking spaces along the Li- brary Terrace were crowded when the two teams lined up for the first period. First P e~riod. Wesleyan kicked off to Gardner \\'Nho re- ceived the ball on Union's forty-yard line, and ran it back five yards. Roof plunged through the line for ten yards. 'I'his made it first down and Girling advanced the ball ten yards more around Wesleyan's left end. Then the opponent's defense tightened and Girling was forced to kick. A fumble found the ball on Wesleyan's five-yard line with Union on the defensive. The stands were crazy, and it looked like a touchdown for the home team. Dangerously near Wesley- an's goal, the ball weaved back and forth, now in the Garnet's possession, now in Wesleyan's. Hickok was substituted for Stoller to attempt a drop kick, which failed. Captain Sarvey went in for Hickok. Again a fumble gave Union the ball on Wesley- an's twenty-yard line, again hard line plung- ing made it first down. Then on the eight- yard line a fumble saved the Red and Black.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS The scrirnma-ges were tight and hard fought and the end of the quarter found it Union's ball on fourth down in the ·center of the field. Second Period. On the first play a forward pass from Beaver to Starbuck brought the pigskin ten yards nearer a touchdown for Union. On the third play after that a second pass, again Starbuck, netted twelve yards. Story went in to replace Malian at right end. The Gar- net team \vas playing fast aggressive foot- ball and seemed to sweep its opponents off their feet. A fumble gave Wesleyan the oval which kept it just three plays. Again it was Union's ball and again a steady ad- vance began down the field. Then came a reversal of form, Wesleyan's back field rushed the ball around the end and sea ttered Union's defense by clever interference. For the first time in the game Union's goal was in danger. Wesleyan was within seven yards of a touchdown, btt t Union received the ball on an attempted drop kick for goal that went out of bounds. The Garnet braced but on the fourth down was forced to kick. Gir ling booted the pigskin forty yards down the field and the danger seemed averted. Then came an unfortunate mis- take which netted the Red and Black its first score.. Deetjen signalled for a fair catch on Girling's punt, but Jenkins, not seeing the signal, was down on him in a second and threw him hard. For this blun- der Union was penalized fifteen yards and her opponents received a try for goal from placement. From the twenty-yard line Captain Eustis lifted the pigskin over the goal. Here endeth the first lesson. Pride goeth before destruction and a too eager spirit be- fore a penalty. The quarter ended shortly after the kick-{)ff. Score: Wesleyan 3; Union 0. Second Half; Third Pe·riod. Sarvey went into the game again for Stol- ler. Wesleyan received the kick-o:ff and DeetjeR ran the ball back thirty yards. Story played far out, evaded his man and \got'' N·ewhaU ten yards behind the line. He ,got a big hand from· the bleachers too. On the third down Wesleyan kicked and B·eaver caught the ball on Union's five yard line and ran it up the field for a nice gain. In succession }loof, Sarvey and Girling plunged into a stone wall defense for slight gains and Girlimg kicked on ·the fourth down. MaHan tackled Deetjen almost be- fore he received the ball. Starbuck saved trouble by tackling Newhall after he had evaded the Union line for a gain of seven yards. Paige went in for Jenkins. Union received the bail on the tw.enty- yard line and on the fourth down the old combination, Beaver to Starbuck, placed the ball fifteen yards .ahead with a forward pass. Immediately afterwards Eeave.d slid around the right end for fifteen yards more. On this play Captain Sarvey got nicked in the head but recovered on the sidelines. Wood, still limping from an injury received in the Rutgers game, took \Dalt's\ place. Sub- stantial gains marked the next few n1oments of plays, and Beaver and Starbuck again worked their little patented pass for nine yards. After this, Starbuck earned a lit- tle repose and Downs took his place at end. Wesleyan couldn't seem to break through Union's defense when she finally got the pigskin, and was forced to kick. The quartet ended with the ball in Union's possession in the middle of the field. Score : Wesleyan .3; Union 0. Fourth Period. In this quarter in spite of Union's offen- sive play, which certainly had overwhelmed Wesleyan hitherto, in spite of her fast work in mowing down red and black runners, Wesleyan scored twice. The period opened with the ball in Union's possession with eight yards to go on the fourth down. What would you do under those circumstances ? ' . -~ .•

n. e- THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 W·ell, Girling did it. He made a mistake, however, in kicking in Deetjen's direction. Be that as it may, Deetjen· caught the ball, tucked it tight under his left a:r.m and filt- ered, trickled, and otherwise wi1shed himself sixty-five yards through the entire Union team for a touchdown. Don't groan, be- cause it didn't count. Mr. Deetjen planted one foot firmly outside the ropes and referee Koult called him out. Th-e ball went to Union and then Union tied the score. Lightning plays, shifts and formations brought the ball within twenty-five yards of Wesleyan's goal. Time was called while Hickok peeled off his sweater to take Roof's place at fullback. Then he boosted the ball over the posts for a field goal. Brovas! Cachinations .! Cheers! and Cheers! The joy was of short duration for on the kick-off Deetjen came on for his second little jug- gling stunt during the afternoon. Deetjens juggled himself down between the goals and this time his act was allowed by the Board of Censorship. Eustis obliged with a kick. Shortly afterwards to everyone's an1azement, Deetjens appeared on the wrong side of the Union goal for the second touch- down of the afternoon. This was the end of the show and, believe the Concordy, it was worth the price of adtnission. The Line-Up. WESLEYAN (16) UNION (3) Hallock, Norse .......... Starb11ck, Downs L. E. Steeb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Price L. T. Gordon, Mitchell. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Gardner L. G. Hingely .....................••.. Hokerk c. Allison ••••••••••••••••••••••••• Jackson R. G. Kenan, MacKenzie .....•.•• Jenkins, Paige R. T. E. T. Eustis .......•......... Mallen, Story R. E. Deetjen . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • B.eaver Q. B. Francis, Slocum ... o •••••• Stoller, IIickok, L. H. B. Sarvey, Woods Newhall, Pennsy ........... Girling, Stoller R. H. B . E. M. Eustis, Hall .......... Roof, Hickok F. B. Referee, Koult, Hamilton; Umpire, Fish- er, Columbia; Head Linesman, Catupbell, Brown. 1~ouchtlowns, Deetj en (2) Goa~s from touGhdown, Eustis. Goal from plarement, Eustis. Feild Goal, Hickok. Time: twelve and eleven minute periods. THE \FROSH\ PEE-RADE. Fe·w indeed, were the world-famed cele- brities and present day noterieties, who es- caped burlesque representation in the grand review of the annual freshman 'pee-rade.' Our honored faculty was there too, as was also a variety of original comedy-characters, arising from the upperclass inspiration and freshman sense of humor. It was a side-splitting aggregation that filed out of the 'gym' and posed for the cameras at Silliman. The College Band was once again in its element, and led the 'cir- cus' out through the Payne gate on their barn-stonning tour of the city. The take- offs were immense, and without a doubt, had anything on ·the Barnutn and Bailey circuit \stopped\ forty ways. Harry K. Thaw and Evelyn Nesbit strolled arm in arm, as did the Ron. William Sulzer and Martin H. Glynn. Attorney Jerome was there too, and behaved exactly according to the newspaper stories. Our revered President Richmond in Scotch kilts and Dr. John I. Bennet of the \Suspicious Occassions\ were very much in evidence. Edward Everett Hale, Jr., was

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS included in the eulogy, along with our most noted. Dt. Steinmetz. \Meat meat, I eat i:t raiw ,\ was the cry of Waho.o the wild man, and at the next instant the beautiful \Septetnbet Morn\ with be- witching; eyes· and form divine, came into· view. She was the focus of all eyes, and created. more or less of a seasatiort. Accom- panying her, were two: veFy dusky Septem- ber Nights who proved li~tle less an attrac- tion. Dewn Uni0n street they pr-anced and circling around Jay to State: street, returned to the campus via N ott Terrace in ti·m.e :for the Wesleyan game. All in all, the pee-rade made a tremendous hit, and while we're passing around the boq:uets., let's not forget the committee: that played such an. import- ant part in making. the event a success. ENGLISH CLUB. At a m:eeting of the English Club held last Friday evening, Mr~ Wisew·ell,. in- structor· in French~ was ele·cted to member- ship in the club to:g-ether with Arthur Haw- ley '14 and Louis Du· Bois De La Vergne '14. Dr. Stanley Chase gave a delightful talk on Oxford University and plans for the college years were discussed. PRESS CLUB. The Board of Trade of Sch.en-ectady has refused to sanction advertis.ements for the Press Club) Programs. This makes it in'l- possible for the club to get out the program for the football season. Another attempt to put the program through wiU be made before the basketball season. If the Boa·rd of Trade withdraws its objection by that time, the clu fu expects to pu-t out a fi111·e program. Y. M. C. A. The· s:peaker for Vesp'ers next Sunday, Oct: 26, will be the Rev. Orin G. Co:x. from New York· City. , It is the plan of the Association to have the. Bible. Class,es. started by the first. week in. November, when it is expected at least one hundred students. win· be enr.olled.. .The book to be .used will be \The. Manhood' of the Master\ by Harry Fosdick. Bible classes will be held in each of the fraterni- ties. as well as tfue customary groups for neutrals. Every student should take an act.ive interest in this year's Bible study and then .s.how this interest by joining one of the classes. The first one or two Vesper services this year spoke well for true \Union Spirit\ by the large attendance. Since then the stu- dent representation has not b€en so good. In view of the immense. benefit to be de- ri:ved from the V:·esp.er services, every stu- dent who c.an should support this most democra:t:ic of college. institutions. DELTA UPSILON TAKES A STAND. Will Bar Members of High School Fratern- itie.s Because They Lack High Ideals. The first note of the. p-assing o£ the High school fraternities was sounded. at the na- tional convention of the Delta Upsilon Frat- ernity, which closed Saturday at Rochester, when the- dele.ga.tes went on record as op- posed to secret fraternities in the High schools and voted an amendment to its by- laws prohibiting the receiving into the fraternity after J.9l7, of any member of a High school or preparatoFy · school frater- nity. In view of the agitation now going on at Glove:rsville and the controversy being· waged in that city <Jrver the existence of fra:ter.nJties in the Gloversvi:llle High school; between the students: of the school and the B:oard af Education, which has placed the ban on such societies, the decision at Roch- es:ter is. of added interest in this section. A resolution was also. passed to put the qu~tion hef0t.e lthe: Pan-.HeUeni.c confer- ' ' t. ·.

r j f y • ' ,. t. THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 ence and ask for similar action to govern all fraternities in the United States. That this will work havoc with High school societies cannot he denied. To those who do not intend to pursu,e a college course, it will make no difference., but the n1any who intend going to college will with- out doubt choose the college fraternity to that of the High school, when it is realized that it must be one or the other. Thus, the lower school societies will labor under the 'handicap of the charge that they are not representative of the schools, a serious n1enace to their existence. The resolution passed is an amendtnent to Article V of the constitution and follows: \Section 13. After September 1, 1917, no person who is a member of a secret frater- nity in any high school, preparatory school or other institution preparing for college en- trance shall become a member of the frater- nity.\ Delta U psi Ion has taken an active part in the inter-fraternity conference in meeting the opposition to college fraternities. Al- though there is little opposition in most of the eastern colleges, the national fraternity, along with fifty-four other national college fraternities and sororities which met last May in Chicago, is taking a stand on what the college fraternity men believe is to the best interests of both colleges and high schools over the country. College fraternity men feel that the oppo- sition to fraternities in the Middle West is largely determined by high school and pre- paratory school fraternities, where the mem- bers, younger and with a lack of the col- lege fraternity ideals, go to excess in those features which have called forth the strong opposition to fraternities in general. The University of Cincinnati is endeavor- ing to raise a $1,900,000 endowment fund. Contributions are coming in and it is be- lieved that the amount will be raised with- out great difficulty. Connie Mack says he prefers college men in basebaH for two reasons, one being that they are supposed to be able to grasp situ- a:tions and think more clearly, and the other that they will keep themselves in better co:m.dition because they regard baseball as. a profession. This is one of the most eloquent tributes to coUege men that we have ever heard. MONEY FOR STUDENTS. In the columns of the Crimson, the Harv- ard college daily, there appeared recently a letter from Mr. Thomas Edison inviting the students to write scenarios for use in the kine!ophone. These \talking plots\ are limited to six minutes in length, and must be clean with free range of subjects. The next addition to the cam pus of Princeton University will be a new infirm- ary. The architect's plans have been ac- cepted and the work of raising the money will begin at once. The total cost will be a bout $150,000. Atnong the 5,000 volumes on agriculture recently donated to Cornell is a history of rare plants, written by Clusius and pub- lished in 1583, and a volume by George Washington, published in 1803. The world's greatest chemist, Sir William Ramsay, has mounted a set of scales that will weigh a seventh-millionth part of an ounce. DRAMATIC CLUB. Up to the present writing, the Dramatic Club has not chosen a di:finite play to pre- sent this winter. At one of the meetings of the club last year, it was suggested that a play be used which one of the faculty would write. The club still hopes to be able to carry out this suggestion. Manager Meneely '14 expects to use the new gym- nasium in which the club will present the play in Schenectady, instead of the Van Curler.

14 THE CONCORDIEN.SIS A Literary and News Weekty Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLleGE Entered at the Postoffi:ce at Schen.ectady:7 N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDI'I'O'R-IN -CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN...:CHlEF, Raymcnd Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ATHLETIC EDITOR R<>hlee H. Vaughan, '14, Delta Phi Hoase. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Hughes, \'15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchttm., '16; R. E. Taylor,, '16; L. R. Va.n Wert, ',16. Morris P. Schaffer, Business :Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, Asst. Business Manager, D.elta. Upsilon House. PnM·ication Office: ScHENEC\tADY ART- PRESS 200 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. ON TO HAMILTON. Faint but clear, rumbling ever ne~rer, can be heard the slogan of Union's old war-cry, as her sons begin to realize that the wilder- ness campaign to ·Clinton is 1 ess than a month away. The upper c'lassmen remem- ber the Hamilton trip of two years ago when we j ourney.ed t~ere in a body and more than filled the bleachers on O·ne side of the field. How the fellows stoo-d behind the Garnet team all through that gruelling battle when Hamilton battered between tackle and end persistently for terTible gains and finally emerged with a victory of 19-0. And very vividly do we re·member how we gathered around the \gym'' singing and cheering until the old college bell wondered if it were tolling a victory or defeat for the B.uff and Blue and finally gave up in d'e~ . spatr. , Yes, we had the spirit that day and the right kind of spirit in the face of defeat. That spirit is still with us, though at times this year it seemed as if it were dormant. But the \1\T esleyan game proved the reverse. Every fellow was behind the teatn every minute. Every heart and soul was in the game just as much so as those of the. men on the team. We noticed, and so did others, that the fellows who could not be on the bleachers, joined the cheering section be- tween halves and made \Alma 1\tlater\ what it should be. Now that we are fully awake and alive to the situation, lets begin to hustle. It's time for the foot-ball songs to be out, so that everyone will know them long before the 15th. Our cheering is in competent hands and is regaining its old time snap. Never- theless, song and cheer practice should be held frequently from now on. When the fifteenth of November rolls around, every · student a.t lJ nion goes to Hamilton. tfhe freshmen want to jot this down and begin to gather the necessary coin. Not a fellow in college will be left behind when that train starts, or he will miss something that he can never regain and wi11 gain something that he can never lose. Everybody must catch the spirit of the occasion and be inspired by it. Let us get the songs and cheers down to such precision that team work will be displayed not only on the field but also on the bleachers. Keep your eyes on the leaders and let them have full charge, for in all unified cheering, the leaders must lead and the students be led absoluteiy. So get the price, get the spirit, for we are coming back with a victory. We have the tea1n that can win it and we all know it. Its up to u:s to make Hamilton know it, so when they ask us how the h-11

l .. r 1 ., t ) e t e s ·- e e v e t1 v t .t g e t n y p e .e d t, e 11 n l1 THE CONC~ORDIENSIS iS we done it, we'll teH the.tn that we come up there just for a holiday. The editorial board regr~ts that it is un- able to offer any money-prizes for literary contributions this year, because it had hoped to stimulate the literary work in that way for at least two years. But the student- body should keep ,constantly in 111ind that its contributions to the coUege paper should be made in the spirit of helping to make its paper the best publication of its kind, not only in the accuracy of its news, but also in the superior quality of its literary work. Remember, that it is not by any means beyond our reach to make the \'Concordien- sis\ the best publication of its kind. We have the brilliant example of the \Union Alumni Monthly\ to assure us that Union although a comparatively small college is producing one of the best college publica- tions of its kind in the college world. The under-graduate publication has great possi- bilities if the students will but take the very little trouble to contribute some of the literary efforts which they are constantly n1aking in their ,every-day academic ,work. We are in a position to realize how ex- tremely busy under-graduates, who are working hard for Union aside from their college work, are and we appreciate why many men feel that they are unable to take the time to make a literary contribution worthy of their college publication, outside of their other college work. All we ask of these men is that they merely contribute some of the literary work which they do for class, after they have finished with it for that purpose. , Any member of the editorial board will receive any literary contribution or any in- formation regarding them. We wirsh to have all efforts signed in full, that we may be able to have these signatures appear with the work. We are glad to feel this year that the student-body is reaHzing to .so large an ex- tent the vital importance of such activities as our publications to Union. Remember, that although you .may not be hailed as a hero for writing something :for your college paper, the student-body in its thoughtful moments will apprec'iate your work and that Union will be greatly helped by your efforts. LITERARY EDITOR. This issue of the Concordiensis was edited entirely by the Assistant Editor. There are four new faculty m·en at Union this year, namely: Ernest J. Berg (of the University of Upsila,) who comes from the University of I:llinois where he was Pro- fessor of Electrical Engineering to hold the same position here; Robert T. Hill of Col urn bia, who comes from the University of Nebraska as Instructor in Economics; Everett S. Lee of the University of Illinois, who comes from that university as In- structor in Electdcal Engineering ; and George E. Nisewell of Hamilton, who comes from the Cascidilla School as In- structor in Fre.nch. Two changes have been made among the faculty metnbers, namely: Charles P. Stein- metz, who was Professor in Electrical En- gineering is now Professor in Electrical Physics ; and Warren C. Taylor, who was Instructor in Civil Engineering has been made Assistant Professor in that department. The foot ball teams which will represent the Sop!1omore and Freshmen classes are working earnestly in order to uphold 'the honor of their respective classes. One may see the two teams practicing on the campus every afternoon. The Freshman team' has probably the most material. Byron who is not eligible to play on the varsity, on acc-ount of the \One Year Rule,\ is coaching the Freshman

16 THE CONCORDIENSlS squad. Rozecans was elected manager of the Freshman team, but the captain has not yet been cl}osen. The Freshman track team is also hard at work under the .direc- tion of \Bill\ Friday. \Nat\ Finch was elected manager of the Sophomoer squad. The first football game of the series was held ~ast Monday afternoon. The second game will be held on Oct. 27, and the third one will be held on Nov. 1. Each game will count twenty points toward winning the :Class Championship. On Nov. 1, an inter-class track meet will be held. The events will be the hundred yard dash, which counts five points toward the total, the mile run, which will count five points, the 880 yard military relay, which will count ten points, and the tug-of-war, which will count twenty· points. There will be eight men on each relay team and twenty-five men on each tug-of-war team. The system that is used this year 1in deciding the class superiority has many ad- vantages. Besides deciding absolutely the the superiority it will give Coach Dawson a line on material for the Varsity. The Sophomores had the advantage for a while but were penalized for pushing the man carrying the ball. Neither team was able to score. Captain Sarvey, Hokerk, and Story of the Varsity were the officials. UNIVERSITY DAY Last Thursday afternoon was observed as University Day on the hill. At promptly two o'clock over three hundred students from the Albany departments of the university arrived on the campus. A football game between the freshman eleven and the varsity second team was the chief source of amusement for the first of the afternoon after which the Uni- versity Day exercises were held in the chapel at 4 o'clock. Preceeding the exercises, the Board of Gov- ernors and the Board of Trustees met in President Richmond's office. At the meeting of the Trustees, the dean who has been con- fined to his home since last spring with scia- tica was granted a lease of absence for one year. The question as to what the new ath- letic field should be called was then brought up. It was decided that it should be named the \R. C. Alexander Athletic Field,\ in mem- ory of Robert C. Alexander of the class of r88o. Dr. Richmond announced to the board the gift of a second check of $ro,ooo froni H. Melville Hanna of the class of r86o. He also reported to the trustees on the exact size of the college. He stated that the registration this fall is the largest in the history of the institution. The matter as to what kind of a building the recent gift of Mrs. Butterfield, namely $roo,ooo for a metnorial to her husband, Gen- eral Butterfield, should erect was not decided Thursday, but left for final settlement at the January meeting of the Trustees. There have been several suggestions as to what is Union's greatest need in the line of a building and the matter seems to rest between a new dorma- tory and a new science building. Both indeed are needed and the Trustees will make a thor- ough investigation of the matter before the next meeting. The University Day exercises were opened by a prayer by Dr. George Alexander. Presi- dent Charles A. Richmond then spoke briefly in introducing Poultney Bigelow, the son of Union's revered John Bigelow, who was for so many years her oldest living alun1nus. Mr. Bigelow made a brilliant and exceedingly in- teresting address on the subject, \Queen Louise and the Centenary of German Lib- erty.\ Following this address, Dr. Richmond assisted by Silas B. Brownell, chairman of the Board of Trustees, conferred on Col. Clarence P. Townsley of the class of 1876 the degree of doctor of science ; and upon How-- ard Melville Hanna of the class of r86o in ' absentia, the degree of doctor of laws. Col. Townsley after graduating from Union

. 111 ng . ta- of H. of or- . of for . tn- of the . tn THE CONCORDI'ENSIS 17 CoUege entered the government military acaden1y at West Point from which he gradu- ated in 188:1.. He is a colonel in the United States Army,. is ComtnandaQt of the United Coast Artillery School. of which he is also a graduate, and, is s:~perintendent of the United States Military A{;ademy at West Point. Mr. I-Ianna after graduating; from Union in I86o becam:e a student of ~medicine, and later served his country in the naval department during the Civil War. He has :figured prom- inently as a promoter of medical education in this country. Both it is needless to say are atnong Union~ s most distinguished sons . Col. and Mrs. To\vnsley and Mr. and Mrs. Bigelow were given an informal reception at the Delta Upsilon fraternity chapter house on the campus shortly after the exercises. Mr. Bigelow also made a short ,call on the Psi Upsilon fraternity of which he is a member. A large number of the Albany students of the University caused some unnecessary and unpleasant commotion at Proctor's theatre last Thursday· night after the University Day exercises on the campus. The entire affair was undoubtedly done with no serious in- tention and the manager of the local theatre withdrew his complaint against the college students when he was informed that the boys were from the Albany departments and that there would not be a repitition of the affair in the future. At CoHege meeting last Monday the motion was carried to have the, minutes of the previ- ous meeting read by the secretary of the student-body. Heretofore the minutes have been kept in a slip-shop sort of way with no accuracy and· method and their reading was a farce: From now on when the _secretary gets on his feet to read the minutes; he will receive· the courteous and uninterrupte.d attention. oJ the w-hQle student-body. ''Bill'' :Cronkhite, one time star Garnet quar- ter-back, and Griswold '03:, probably the best linesman that Union ever turned out, have signified their willingness to help Couch Daw..- son for the remainder of the season. It has been decided to form a second team distinct from the Varsity in signals, plays, etc. It is hoped that in this manner the V asity will find stronger opposition in practice and become fairly familiar with the style o£ play of the team to be met in that week. A COLLEGE SYMPHONY. (a la Channing) To be content with the clothes you have; to possess a few friends rather than the crowd; to seek knowledge instead of marks; to study for the truth in all things; to help a classmate even. though it may lower your own grades; to remember that even Phi Beta Kappa is not worth the key to perfect and unbroken health; to lend often ; to bor- row seldom ; to stand for something worth while in the college; to take an active part in class affairs ; to have the true college spirit, and a broad view of life ; in a word, so to live day by day that those around you may be glad that their lives have touched yours. \What makes a Football Player\ is the title of one of Outing's features for October. The writer of the article, Herbert Reed, sums it up in the following way: \The truth is that sheer physique is having less and less to do with it, and had much less to do with it in the past than most of us have been led to believe. Successful football has been built upon brains, and courage. If physique is at hand so much th-e better, but the corner stones remain. B.rains and cour- age make a. football player, and hF.ains and courage make a football team.\ The writer goes on to describe some of the, sta~s, o£ the gridiron-little Frank

. ,, i ·, ,; '' .. 18 THE CON~OORDIENSIS Hinkey of Yale, slight and almost fragile in appearance ; Tom Thorp of Columbia, who beat Cornell with a broken coHar-bone; Pishon of Dartmouth, one of the smallest and fastest of backfi.eld men; and a dozen others. NEWS OF THE COLLE:GE WORLD. University of Maine students are organiz- ing a new honorary fraternity to be known as Sigma Phi, for the purpose of encourag-- ing public speaking. Wearers of athletic insignia at Columbia are to vote on the question whether or not managers of athletic teams should be granted athletic insignia. Princeton is to have two .magnificent new buildings, one a $500,000 dining hall which is designed to accommodate nine hundred students, and the other a $160,000 dormi- tory. The consensus of opinion of several Bos- ton business men, when interviewed by the New York Tim·es recently~ was that a col- lege education is not only unnecessary but in many cases detrimental as preparation for a business career. One of the general provisions of the plans of the Honor System now under considera- .tion at Columbia is that students are not necessarily required to report any observed cases of cheating, but that upright conduct shall be obtained through the integrity of each student. SCORES OF UNIONS OPPONENTS. Rutgers 71, Hobart 0. Rensselaer 13, Stevens 0. Rochester 20, Hamilton 0. Kappa Alpha entertained a few guests at a tea after the Wesleyan game. The patronesses were Mrs. Cobden of Troy and Mrs. Hallock of this city. Phi Gamma Delta gave an inforn1al dance Saturday . evening. The patronesses were Mrs. A. H. Pepper, Mrs H. G. Reist, Mr~. J. L. I-Iayden, Mrs F. S. Hocman, Mrs T. M. Townsend and Mrs. L. C. MacMillan. Psi Upsilon held an informal dance on Saturday evening. The patronesses were Mrs. F. B. Richards of Glens Falls, and Mrs. DeForrest \V eed of Ballston. INTERCOLLEGIA'TE NOTES. In the course of some snappy remarks directed to the Syracuse football squad last Monday, Head Coach O'Neil said: \If you expect to win against such teams as Prince- ton, Michigan, and Colgate, you have got to train.'' There's work ahead for Syracuse. In characterizing the Hobart-Alfred game, the Post Standard ~remarked that ''frequent fumbling and poor defensive work mars the performance of the Geneva eleven.\ After spending three months in Southern Europe, doing research work, Prof. Eugene T. Andrews of the Department of Archae- ology, Cornell University, has returned to the University. Announcement has been made by the Psychology Department of Dartmouth Col- lege that every member of the present fresh- tnan class will be subjected to psychological test of mentality to determine the average mentality of the first year man, and also for h'is own information. Columbia is the only college which gives this test to both the freshman and seniors. Oberlin introduces the system this year and it is under discus- sion at Yale. The University of Chicago has $1,000,000 worth of new ?uildings in the course of con- struction. All of the new buildings are in the Gothic style of architecture and are modeled after the buildings at Oxford U ni- versity. ,. .. l. i I·

T. on rks to red ae- to the for nly the ces us- on- . tn are i r I ; ' '' ' l' i I· Evening Clothes for that Glee Club Trip $38.00 TO $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN ·. 617 State Street Union Boys, The best .paper for your correspondence is CRANE'S LINEN LAWN· . We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal, Garnet and Gold. The Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The Gleason Book Co .. 104 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP: ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street THE KII'CHEN is the Workshop· of the Home You can no more· expect to get . . modern result& with th·e old style kitchen than you·can expect a manu- . facturer to suc~ceed with the tools of ye-sterday. Successful home makers have found that the surest way to get satisfactory results is to install the modern, all gas kitchen. 'Phone 2500 and one of our representatives will call and advise and snow you how little it costs. Mohawk Gas Company UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc . Largeat dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'•

THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orche atral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Alao THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hoteb conducted on European Plan Under .direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. -CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady Some of the Fellows won on the Athletics Some of the Fellows won on the Giants But all of the Fellows win on · WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ,.CONCORDY\

- • • I • • ) - - - - •• y • A R _- z·t· '. ·0 -h · tr furnished music at Union College 1905, • e 1 a s -, rc es -._a '06, '07, '08, '09, '10, '11, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World ~~~·tt~~e~~~r!~~e~ 48 ~:e Betterfor Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great difference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own green- holl:s<?s right here in Schenectady by pat- rontzJno- W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Alban7' Street Phone 3628-L Greenhoaae1408 State St. Phone 1 543-J ltutnu Nntinunl inuk f!ttlttmttabg. N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent L VQN'S The Store With Over 1 1 1oo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 .State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted DANCING Waltz, Two Step, Three Step & Bluebell tauA!ht in One Term MODERN DANCING The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons guaranteed. FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancing Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723-J Prnf. 31. 31. Eilgalltu For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 210D·W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\

An Oil Heater is ·great for a chilly day. The ,perfection stove we offer at $3.00 The Rayo Lamp will not smoke, gives a attong, bright Hght-$1. 98 COFFIN BROS. 303-305 STATE STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraitiea ~rom the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a spectalty Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ft:llows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXClUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirt• and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hata, Best Canes, Bsga and Suit Caae1. Everything for well dreased men J. !. WQtarlt DE·LICATBSSEN ''Joe'' caters to the student. Break•· fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'PHONE 298-W Higgins' 722 EASTERN AVE. ( I ~ I: I L Drawin.Inh Eternal Writin~ Ink Enaaroasin~ Ink Taurine Mucila~e Photo Mounter Pa1te Drawinal Board Paste Liquid Paste Office Paste Ve~etable GJ.ues, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive aitd ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal S() efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Visthn~ Car-ds \Jeddtn~ Stahonery \Bus1ne s Ca-rds-Leher Heads Class Pins- Mono(r-llms Crests , Coats \f Ar~s etc . .0ESIGN£f\S .[ NGf\AVE\S Pf\INTE~S EM BOSSE~$ ., ;:

t te te :c. :s o- e- a ~t, S() ). k\. - ., ;: Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope an~<l Eagle Motorcycles ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Ys Both Telephones 208 THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME &ritrurrtaby Art Jrras J. H, COMOIJ Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe • :\! .. 'l ~~---- ',,.., - .·.;. I.J ., ' The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to~morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady The Newland- Vo11~ Ritter Company PRINTERS &: BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book B-inding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate',-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 42!58•W ~ SCHk~&CTAPY ANT PR&aa

Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and y~u know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells -. ------- --- - - ........ ---. . - ---- --------·- .. - - the right kind, and naturally t~ustsell the right kind o~ other things to wear too. If yoll look us over a little yve think ~ou'lllike us and our way <>f doing b!Jsiness.~ 240-44 State Street

: ' ' et PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE

. i ,-; ,,1' .... , ' 'I' I . :I . il ' I .! I .. 'I ll :• I ,, I' I '')' l' ' ' ' UNION UNIVERSITY C'HARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chaneello:t UNION COLLE:GE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses leading to the d.egree o·f A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and is required for fo11r years. 2. Course >leading to the deg:ree of Ph. B. LATIN -SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers. Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages .and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathen1atics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course o:ffers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the !Sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in' history, economics and modern languages. Srx YEAR PH. B.-B. E. CouRSE.-This course com- bines the above four-year engineering course with the Latin-scientific course. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs fron1 the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH. NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o:F M. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists ot lectures, laboratory p·ractke and research work. CouRSE J1EADING To DEGREE o:F PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNESJ Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDI~CINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instructionby lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing f.uU informa· tion sent on application to : WILLIS G. TucKERJ M. D., ·Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P ARKERJ J. NEWTON FIEROJ President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to it1> use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. i~ three years; each year is divided into two semesters~ Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee,. $I IO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON) Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $9o.oo per tern1. For catalogue giving full information,. address. WILLIAM A. LARKINJ PH. G., Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENN.ANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phoae 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY\ •i ' ., ,' ' \ '· r ~

·Th .. ·lS ot course admis- ess N.Y. praa- ' N.Y. IEROJ Dean. of state to it1> B. i~ fee,. address: Y. of seven tary N. Y. TS, •i ' ,, ~' !'. Clothing, Hats, Furs, Trunks, Furnishings, and Bags 1§1 Rogers, Peet & Co's. Clothing. Auto and Carriage Livery • ,451 AND 453 BROADWAY ALBANY, N.Y. F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin PROPRIETORS EST ABLlSHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW l'T IN TilE ~'CONCORDY''

! ' . ,' i I ,, '} '' i ., ' ; . ~ ,, .: I 1 '' ~ i: ' I :' ! Home-m:ade Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, E. H. S·OUDER Jeweler and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY . Special work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 No. Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO OR!DER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LA:NE ALBANY, N.Y. THE UNION TRUST COM.PANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, · 7 • President T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Treas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, • General Counsel Main office, 47 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jltt;£tt 1£uur~ Steuben St., Al~any, N. Y. • K. H. Solaghian Photographs \While You Vlait\ Fellows: Drop in for an informal . photo - you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'' \ •

;sed ~eet E.R 00 ' r s 'I ident unsel lfl tit\ >IO L Y. L Y. CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N. Y. METROPOLITAN CLEAN!BRS & DYERS MOE DEWILDE; Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Goads \We do it a• you like to have it done\ 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. Office, 124 Washiaaton lva. Albany, II. Y. - William j. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. m4t (ltnllrgt Jriut &(fnp 44 Nn. Jtarl &trttt J\lbunu~ N. 1. \Ou Business is Growing;• Pianos a11d Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Rec()rds. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 64 No. Pearl St., Alhony, N. Y. \Root for Jack'• FISHER'S 2nd s:HJ~TS 50c 112 No. Pearl :St. Albany Reliable DANKER Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 a•d 42 Maiden LatJe S.AY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY•'

In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you're \cramming\ for ai1 exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your 11).aking up that \condition\- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c he e ring warmth of the ,Q. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp-socket. · Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Orders For Bad-Fitting Clothes Are Decreasing Men spend their money for made- to-order suits that fit. They find they are much cheaper in the end. There is a demand for better cus- tom tailorin~. We meet it fully SMITH Be CLUTE 1 CENTRAL ARCADE Hurley Shoes FOR MEN Exclusive Styles, Fine Quality, Perfect Fit. These are the three essentials to perfect footwear satis· faction that every man hopes to get in the shoes they buy- and which they do get when making their sel- ection from our stock of Hurley Shoes. Price $5.00 and $6.00 Hurd Boot Shop 2 73 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\ ' ' I ,; I ~ I , ~ I 1 ;.

ree get ich I . : ' ''';; ., ,.y ''.1 :-. '~~ . li ,, Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WBBER Cluett & Sons AND .PIANOLA P'IANOS ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE 4508 STAT:B ST.. SCHENECTADY. N. Y WHERE Everybody Gets Skoes Mended Our prices are no more than elsewhere, and we give you the best material and workmanship. We make a specialty of repairing all kinds of rubbers. Work called for and delivered Free of charge. Shoes sewed by hand if desired. Open evenings- Saturday until 10 o'clock. ''If lt:'s Made of Rubber We Have It'' Q1 Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Go·ods Auto~L.Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. . 521 State Street 229 State Street 23 Store• Telephone 3456 H 0 L TZ MAN's LATEST STYLES--MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1811 VVe have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNIO·N\ for tbe past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES lil French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schmectad~ '1 Larttst Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\'

.. SPORTING GOODS 'BIG STO.RE-BIG STOCK We are Albany's Leading Distributors. Here you wiU fin·d the largest line of Sporting :and ~t\thletic Goods in Albany. Every article selecte,d with care fro.m the ·most popular lines. ~Quality the best ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoen1aker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270~W 603 LJBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophm()re or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay :ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savi·ngs Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~~!~ 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~:~ ~~~~ D. B. PAIGE. Sitma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 1907 1913 Colleate Representative • · 1908 19 Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum .336 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY'' ' I ., ' . , '· .; 1 •. ·< .; .

; : i I ;I ~· • - ET ~· ' - ~ET 1909 1910 1911 1012 1913 19 \ - ... T·he · Concordiensis . ; . ; ' VOL. 37 t OCTOBER 30, 1913 NO.4 . ' l ROCHESTER WINS CLOSE ' I : I ) . GAME IN LAST FEW SECONDS o-F PLAY .. I . ' Garnet Team Plays · Visitors to a r· Standslill Throughout, But Loses on a Fumble. 1 E~~·~1y six seconds before the final whistle of the game Saturday, one of Rochester's sp·e·edy ,ends scoop·ed up a fumbled ball, and \lashed about 50 yards through a broken field for a touchdown. Up till this time Union had I·it~:rally · played the \Y·ellow\ team off their feet. and ·a 0-0 soor~e seemed ·evident. But ' a . game -is · nev·er over till the last whistle blows and the touchdown decided the contest, ' . for UniQn had not ·the faintest chance of even- iqg up matters in the very few remainin.g minutes. It was an unearned victory fo.r Rochester and a 1 hard game for the Garnet to lose. In this instance the best team did not win, for Union cl·early demonstrated her sttperiori1ty over the \Yellow\ throughout the THE GAME. The gam·e ·opened w·ith an exc'hange of punts, and Union :finally opened the attack. With the ball on Rochester's 18 ya~d line, Hickok was sent in ~to try a drop kick, hut the attempt was blocked. By a s-eries of sharp attacks Roches·t.er carried the ball to ·within Union's 25 yard line, but her·e the Garnet rallied and returned the hall to mid-field. Rochest·er opened the second half with a lot of \pep\ and t'he Garnet goal was soon in dan- ger. Wi1th seven ya:rds to go, Rochester tried hard to score, but Union held like a stone wall and took the ball on downs. The visitors seem- ~ed discouraged after this and w·er·e unable to stop the Union backs. Play was centered on Rochestter's tackles, and the backs tore through for long gains. Jenkins carried the ball through the visiting line for a 20 yard gain, and just as the Ga·rnet 1team was in striking distanae of the Rochester goal, the unlucky fumble oocur- r·ed, and the game ·was. lost. Long, Rochester's left ·end, swooped down on the ball, and dash- ed down the field for the only score of the game. Union's line played a splendid game with Jenkins the brightest star.- The big tackle poked holes in the Rochester line with appar- ent ease. One thing at least the Garnet team aooomplished, namely, -the . act of pl,aying the last quarter at top speed. Unlike recent con- tests on the \Hill Union was outplaying her oppoinents in the last s.tage of the cont·est. Forsythe and Neary were the stars of the \Y·ellow\ team. N~eary at quarter sho~ws ex- cellent generalship, and his passing and inter- ference ·w·ere splendid. Forsythe, the visiting ·captain, was in every play and was Roches- ter's most consistent ground gainer.

-10 THE CONCORDIE,NSIS The line-np and summary : UNION. RO,CHEST·ER. Story -------------------------------- Long Left end.. Wood ----------------------------- Lew~ls Left tackle. Gardner -------------------------... Scott Left guard. I-Tokerk --------------------------Scheibel C·enter. Jackson _____ -------------------- _ Gayton Right guard. Jenkins ____ -----------·---------- Guthrie Right tackle~ Starbuck ---------------------- II. Story Right end. Beaver ------------------------ Hammele Quaroterback .. Sarvey ----------------·----------Chesbro Left halfback. Girling -------------------- _____ Forsythe Right hal_fbacl<:. Roo-f _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Lann~ Fullback. Score-Rochester, 6; Un:ion, 0. Touch- down-Long. Substitutions, Hickok for Sar- vey, Stoller for Hickok, Sarv-ey for Stoller, Cleveland for ~Gardner, Butler for Sto.ry, Mtal- len for Sarvey, Nixon for St-oJler, Butler for Cleveland, Stoller for Wood, St()ry for Mallen, Downs for Sttoller ; Rochester, Pryor for S.cott, N·eary for Hemm·ele, P!\yor for Gayton, Bis- hop for Pryor. Ref·eree-Campbell of Brown. Umpire-D,eCa,mp of Williams. Head lines- t11an~Grout of Union. Time of quarters- 12 and 11 minutes .. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. B·eginning at 7:45 P. M. Friday evening, Ocober 31, Silli1nan Hall will he the s·cene of a Hv·ely social, ~to which all1nembers of the col- lege community are invited. This is a good chanc·e for the students ~to beo()me personally . acquainted witll m·embers of the faculty and their wives. \Charlie\ tells us tha:t liquid and other refr·eshn1ents wiil be served on the occasion. ,S,ecretary Ross of tl1e city Y. M. ·C. A. will say a few words to those present. Professor McKean will begin teaching the Norm'al 'Class in Bible study during the first week in November. The Mission ·Study classes will begin their work in January. \Charlie\ has not yet ~coln­ pleted all of the arrangements, but has gone far enough to be able to promise all ,;vho are int·erested in mission work a rou~ing .good course. Blodgett, '15, of the Industrial Colnmi{tee is working, with S·ecretary Ross, on rlasses for foreigners in the city Y. M. C. A. BLACK CAT MEETS. At the first bi-n1onthly meeting of The Bla·ck Cat ·Club the officers f,or the ,ensuing year were' elected. Donald Coulter presided at the n1eet- ing a.t which a short discussion on city politics took place. Previous to this discussion the following men ·w·ere chosen as officers of the club: Coulter, '15, president; Norton, '15, vice- president; Culver·, '15, treasurer; Landreth, '16, secretary. The club is strong this year and the pros- pects for a record breaking ~eason were never before better than they are at the present time. The club will dis·cuss in the ·cotning year the most interesting curr·ent topics and vvill have at the meetings as many able political speakers as can be obtained. There will be a .meeting of the club very shortly, notice of whic·h will be posted on the bulletin board. The chtb is meeting this year at Goodman's as in previous years. DEBATING COUNCIL TO MEET. The n1os't that can be said of debating at the dtne of writing is : There is nothing def- ·initely decided yet. C~om;munications have been opened with Cornell, but nothing ·else has been done regarding intercollegiate contests. Nothing at aJJ has been done about a sopho- . ~ I

the ·C. the first their '001TI- gone are . 1s for the the . '16 ' ros- the at ef- , .. I 1 ~ ,, . . l ·,. ., THE CONC'ORDIENSIS 11 more-freshman meeting this year, but ·the de- bating council takes this 'opportunity of asking the members of the under-cla,sses to keep i.t in mind. The two ·clubs are hard at work preparing men for the prize debate. If Cornell submits a question :to Union by November 1, the Adel- phic will probably offer it to Phi1omathia as the official inter-~club .subJect. ·One of the two debating clubs of Colum- bia Universrty, the ,Barnard Society, has open- ed relations w.i~th the A!delphic. It is believed tha:t th~ outco-me will ·be a deba,te betw~een the two clubs in Sc'henectady. The officers of Philomathian ar·e: J.D. Guth- man·n, '14, president; W. A. Hughes, '15, vice- president; A. V. Jacobs, '16, secretary; W. A. Mudge, '14, treasurer, elected in p}ace of I. A. Krohn, '15, who has ente·red Cornell. The fol- lowing men have been elected members of the society : W. M. Clinnick and R. A. Newton, '16; A. S. B-ehr, '17, K. S. Blakeslee, '17, D. F. ·Chapman, '17, H. L. Dunn,'l7, H. R. Knight, '17,- E. W. Mandeville, '17, R. W. Schwartz, '17. T'he offic-ers o:f the Adelphic are: M. P. Schaffer, '14, president; D. A. Coulter, '15, vice-president; L. C. Fletcher, '16, s·ecretary; R. S. Blodgett, '15, treasurer. A list of the new members has not yet been handed to the Con- cordiensis. Prof,essor McKean's junior argumentadon ·class has perfected the foHowing yell for the Prohibi,tion candidate for mayor: \Brooks Brooks, Brooks; run, run, run; dry, dry, dry.\ COLLEGE MEETING. Captain Sarv·ey first spoke about the Roch- ester game and thanked ~the fellows for the way they hacked the team Saturday. Coach Daw- son _spok,e further concerning the game and an- nounced thart training table would start at once though he regretted only sixbeen men could eat at the table as yet. A second te,am has been picked and would play against the varsity every afternoon. The minutes of the pr,eeeeding meeting were read by Secretary Brown. \Steve\ Story announeed th·e Normal Bible ~Class to ·meet on Tuesday. He also said that the freshman-sophomore foo1:ball ,game would be played :that afternoon. ''Steve\ also said that Prexy and Mrs. Rich- mond would be at home to the students every Sunday af~ternoon af.ter three thirty. \Billy\ Mudge next spoke about ~the cross- country team. He said that with no exper- - ienced men on the team, they had heen unable to over.come Colgate's superior ·experience and longer training. H·e announced that .the tean1 would run against Williams Co11ege Saturday at Williamstown. President Lewis reported concerning special railroad rates to Hamilton for the game. (His full report 'Will he found in another column of ~this issue.) ~Walworth announc-ed tha-1: the Press Club would r,eceive reports of the Hobart game on election day at the ·end of every quarter. Smi,th next announced Glee Club rehearsal and ~t:hat the first ·concert would be held Wed- nesday night in Amsterdam. B~and r·ehearsall was ann()unced to be held at 2:30 on Saturday. Adjournmen 1 t. COLGATE WINS RACE. Their Experience Was Too Great a Handicap for the Garnet Run- ners to Overcome. The Colga:te cross ,country t'eam turned the tables on the Garnet team Saturday by winning the annual race, the s~core being 19-36. Union's team is composed almost entirely of inexper- ienced runners and no one who stood at the starting line, as the two ·teams lined up, could fail to perceive that Calgate had the odds by far. In spite of the fact tha~t suc·h bad weather

.. I : I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS prevail·ed, qnite a crowd gathered to see the two etrds o·f d1e race and as the pistol 'Shot rang out •the vo•ices of the students arose in a ''long ye:tl,\ to which each man ,on the •team answered with ,every muscle. Gould of Colgate set the pace from the very stalit and crossed the ·finishing line in the l~ea·d, n:1aking the course in tw·enlf:y-two minutes and ·three-fif-ths s:econds, which was unusually good considering the condition of the ground. Bernstrom .of Colgat,e follow·ed close behind Gould. Stewart of Colgate led Friday of Union until the final sprint :when Friday put .forth unusual efforts and lead his opponent across the line by several yards. Williams of Col- gate finished fifth, followed by Newton of Union, si:xth; Everette, of Colga t·e, seventh ; Mudge, o·f U·nion, eighth; Scoby of Union, ninth, and Gunning, of Union, tenth. PRESS CLUB IS BUSY. Press Club aotivities' during the past week have heen booming along in the usual char- acteristic n1anner. Events ·0f the past week in and about th·e college have furnished plenty of n1aterial for the i ournalists and, a·s a resuH, the n1any pape1~ throughout the state that are include,cl in the club's correspondence list have printed an unusual amount of Union ne 1 WS during the week. It is the exp,ectation of the Press Club to take full charge of the sale of hats, arn1 hands, and meg-aphones on the special train which is to conver rthe ·entire student body do,wn to Hamilton~ for the big game of the fall s·chedule. The three articles will be sold together to each purchaser. The price ha~s not yet ~een definite- ly decided upon, but the \studes\ may be as- sured that irt will be of a rock bottom size. As everyone that goes ·must have these articl•es, the club ex:p·ects a pretty large sal,e of them. \Doc\ I-Iow·ell, '14, the chairman of the song books c·omtnittee, is heading a movement ·which should be ~end·ered tbe heartiest of support by the student body. The gathering together of all the songs written of our college in r·ecent and past ye 1 ars, the correcting of :them back to their original forl?s w hi·ch have in some de- gr·ee been· lost· -in- the :·okter compositions, and the binding of them in a tasty and sensible manner is certain~y an ,enterprise of a worthy nature. It's right up to the und·ergrads to sup- port this work as individuals, both with finan- cial aid and with \moral\ support. For the benefit of those who won't be .able to attend 1:he coming game with Hobart, the Press Club will run a sort of information bu- reau. Reports of the progress of the contest will be exhibited by periods in t:he windows of the club's rooms. Reports of the IIamilton gan1e will not be exhibited-there_ won't be anyone here to see them. Alpha Delta Phi and Sigtna ·Phi held iri- fonnal teas in their chapter houses after the Rochester game. Thes·e were the only social functions on the Hill Saturday afternoon. SCORES OF UNION'S OPPONENTS . Colgate, 6; Trinity, 0. Wesleyan, 9; Amherst, 0. Hamilton, 0; ·Hobart, 0. Rutgers, 13; R. P. I., 0. Johns Hopkins, 13 ; Stevens, 0. Mass. Aggies., 33; Middlebury, 0. Loughlin, '16, was the proof-rea,der for this lSRUe. PSI UPSILON BANQUET. On Saturday evening, October 25th, Psi Upsilon m·en of the Capitol District gathered at the Mohawk Golf ·Club to attend the annual banquet. ·Over a hundr·ed and fif•ty n1emhers were present and many chaptets, especially of the east, ·were repres·ented. Judge Marvin H.· Strong, of Schenectady, acted a:s toastmaster, and the list of speakers include:d Dr. C. 0. Judkins, of Glens Falls, T. R. Kneil, of Sara-

to de- and sup- able , the bu- ntest of be iri- the Psi of H: 0. r i THE 'CONCORDENSIS 13 toga, H. L Story, of the Rochester Chapter, B. R. Hatmaker, of Sch·enectady, F. P. Gates, of the Ha·milton Chapter, T. L. Pearce, of the Bowdoin Chapter, E. L; Stevens, of New York, and S. B. Story of the Union Chapter. FROSH FAKE BANQUET. Saturday afternoon after the Roche·ster gan1e, :the freshman ~'pulled off\ a fake banquet. Rumors of the Freshman banquet had been circulated around ·the ca·mpus and the sopho- mores were suspicious. When, after the game, the first year men began to disappear and scarcely one showed up at the fraternity houses for dinner, the sophomores considered the evid- ence conclusive and collecting their forces start-- ed out. A·fter fo.JL(}wing variou·s groups of freshn1en about town for some time and watch- ing every A~lhany, Troy and Saratoga car, they finally concluded that the \frosh\ had \put one over\ on them and so they returned to the Hill. . In the meantime the \frosh\ enjoyed kin1en1acolor at ten cents per freshman. 15 YEARS AGO THIS MONTH. -T'he football team under the captaincy 1 of '·Bill'' Stni:th was pre-pafling for a long, hard schedul·e. Harold J. Hinman (now Republi- can leader in ·the Ass·embly) was the man- ager of the tea·m. -The n1usical clubs w·ere preparing for a trip through the cities of Western New York and also for one to Binghamton and Elmira at Christn1as time. -T'he Fulton COlunty Alumni Association vvas fonned on August 20, 1898. President Raymond attended the initial meeting and ad- dressed the alumni on the progress of the col- lrege. -At a m·eeting of the advisory board of the N. Y. S. I. A. U., held at U·Hca, it ·was ·decid- erl to hold the next tr~ack meet at Union. Col- gate was a warded bhe football pennant of 1897 and Union was gi-v·en the baseball champion- ship. -· The class of 1901 def.eated 1902 in the annual sophomore-freshman football :game, played October 19, 1898. The soore was 6-4J. She put her head on his shoulder, The ·color left her cheek, And showed upon his coatsl·eeve For just about a week. 10 YEARS AGO THIS MONTH. -Amherst defeated Union in a chess tourna- tnent by a narrow n1argin. -The following is an extract from a notice seen recently on the bulletin board: \- will deliver an address on 'GambHng,' a subject of special local interest.\ We feel sure the writer is m·istak•en. -Prof. Edward E. Hale, Jr., has recently puhlished a treatise on \The Influence of \fhea- trical Conditions ·on Shake<speare, in Modern· Philology.\ -In The Mi,chigan Alumnus for March, 1903, Ron. Andrew D. White has a tnost in- teresting article on Henry P. Tappan, Union, '25. The article is entitled: \President Tap- pan and the University as Tappan Made It.\ -In a football gatne played a.t the Polo Grounds, New York City, on October 3, 1903, Columbia defeated Union by a score of 36-0. -The class elections passed off quietly enough this fall. No money was spent, the crowds not at all ex-cited and little party spirit vvas shown. -The senior class picture vvas taken last vveek. The bank near the Nott Elm in Jack- son's Garden was ·the location as usual. -J. D. James, ex. '14, was on the Hill last week. -Bisgrove, '14, is taking the first year in Albany M·edical College as a substitute for his senior year studies. This is allowed by t:he trustees and he w·ill r·eceive his academic ·degree in June with the class of 1914~:· ··.

/ ·' 14 THE CONCORDIENSlS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN -CHIEF,. Raymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ATHLETIC EDITOR Roblee H. Vaughan, '14, Delta Phi House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDI'fOR Thon1as L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE ED11'0RS W. C. Baker, 'IS; D. A:· Coulter, 'rs ; H. N. Hubbs, 'IS; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS vV. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E .. A.gan, Asst. Business Manager, Delta Upsilon I-Iou se. Publication Office: SCHENECTADY AR'l' PRF.SS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. FRESHMAN RULES. Every Fall, about this titne, it becon1es neces- sary to speak to the f~reshmen concerning the Freshn1en Rules w·hich are laid do·wn by the college for them ~to obey. For the first few vveeks the freshmen generally do as they are told but then son1e fe\v venturesotne spirits atten1pt to shovv th,eir courage and their dis- dain for the sophomores by flagrant violation of Freshn1ian Rules. An e-xample of such a violation appears in a co~mmunicatio.n another eol umn. • lll We want to itnpress it uplon the freshmen just as etnphatically and just as strongly as we ·oan tha1.t they are ·exp,eeted to obey college rul·es. :· Every preceding class has obeyed them ·and ·why should any change ·O·ccur now? These rul-es are ~·~td dpwn by the upp~lclassmen and the sop11omores are ·expected ito see to it that they ar~~ lhred ··up to. By disolb~Y~P:g ·.one of the'ln, ·~ . f reshma? is not sho1v-~ng f!js .~c9urage but disre~pect and laqk of loyalty :to the !radi;- tions 'O£. ou:r ·Alma Ma·ter. • C~btl w·e aff\Ord to do that ? Cam.we affo-rd ·td . gain ~Streb a:: reptl ta- t ion-? W·e believe n'Ot and . we · earnestly:..·utge fevery m~n in the .freshmari: cla,~s :;to o~;i caf'd- t' : ·: • • •• : 1 ~ ... • t · ~ \ r ,-, \) , r 1 4 -~ • ful of ;hi,s every \vord an~_.a£t 'aqd :to .ol?~xJo '. \ .; ~ the Ie.iter . .-every .co.Jl.e:ge, rule. .. , 1 T·h~·:y, .ar.·~ .J;Jtqt · strin;gent. Th~y a·l;e. not 1 .nnJ~b,or. ~u{lfah·. Live··up :to·~then1; .ftellows; and !keep- yourrclass fr,o>ll.J.i ga:ining a 'reptitatron:whicn ~it dan i1ra:f- • ... , to -:. r ... ,.:- 1 .. ford- to ~cquire. D~ this. for trn~on's s~ke as vv-eU ·\ as 1 :fo~ yO.i.tr 'cla~s · :~!ld Y:~:ri'll ~~ev.~r r~grdt it. • •. ; r ·: . ) ·;r- . . ;. . . -~ ,· ..... ~ ,. r -· At vadous times. there. have._cotfle to Olllf·ears ru1nors o1f dissatisfaction which the Renss·elaer l • /.. J _, . Poly.teahnic · Institute students have· ~felt over the inability of our football''tll:anageinent to arrange a. gatne with the InstitUite this :season. \V e had given these run1ors bnt Httle thought till the early part of this week, when we heard fro:n1 r·esponsible sources that things had been said and statetnents made w'hich as Union m·en we cannot allow to pass unanswered. The gan1e between Rutgers and R. P. I. was the basis of the argument. Since Rutgers had defeated the Institute only about one-third as badly as we had been beaiten, the Troy s~tud­ ents j un1p-ed at the conclusion that their team was three ·tim.es as good as the Union eleven. Taking that conclusion as gospel truth they

college them These en and it that of <?urage ±radi- . to ; i ; [I i care- 4 -~ \ .J;Jtqt i1ra:f- \!\ 1 .. I r~gret .., . .. J _, . over ent to been Union I. was had as S'tud- team even. they ' '-~ : ·, ,r ··~ ' .1 i ! j. : i !. j, '., ... . \',. t l ! THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 again took a long jun1p and decided that we had been afraid to take them on o:ur schedule lest we should be badly beaten. These sta-te- ments were au-gn1ented by rem.arks concerning our college which no real college man or true spor!tsman would have 1nade. We feel sur·e that .these statem.ents were nort n1ade by rep- resentative ·men and that such a spirit is not prevalent at the Institution as we have a high regard for our Troy neighbors and feel tha;t they are as a whole, clean spo-rts·men. To any one at all cognizant with the facts, it seen1s absurd to draw any such conclusion ~s to our attitude as regards a gan1e with the In- stitute. Our n1:anagement held up our sehed- ule for six n1onths hoping agains.t hope that a game n1ight be n1ade possible. When athletic relations ·were resun1ed, our schedule was al- ready nearly complete. We offered R. P. I. the ·opening gan1-e. They refus-ed for they al- ways open against Willian1s. They offered us the last ga1ne of the s·eason. We ·had to re- fuse for Han1ilton is always the last tean1 we play. All other dates were filled on both scheclul•es. Who vv.as at fault fo·r such a con- dition? No one, for it was n1erely a matter of circun1stances. However if one wishes to go back into history and dig out the scores of old R. P. I.-Union football games he will quickly see that Union has no cause to feel the slight-- est uneasiness in regard to the autcon1e of any contest. Far more than a 1najority of past gan1·es has been won by Union. Y·et a state- tnent is made that w-e are afraid to play the Institute for fear we should be beaten. We are glad to be able to say thrut this statement was not n1ade by a student but by the Institute coach. Union is just as anxious to play R. P. I. as is the latter institution to pl'ay us, but a schedule once ,made cannot be broken no tnat- ter what may ·be the incentive. V\T e pursue athletics chiefly for itself not primarily for victory alone. We fig:h t to win but that is not the sun1um bonum of our efforts. Any one ;who knows Union and Union spirit will see at once .the absurdity of any statem·ent as giv-en above. We take this opportunity to set the facts before the stud·ent body and \Ve hope the authors of the above, or similar, 1nis- staten1ents may see .the laughable absurdity of any such efforts on their part. AN ODE TO TENNIS. So1ne play to get the \advantage Some play to raise the \deuce Son1e play for the sake of \loving But then the game's a ruse. Some play the gal:ne for \love Some play to \--vin the \set B·ut I play for the· sake of looking At the girl across the net. -L. 0. R., '00. ENGLISH CLUB. The English ·Club has decided to make a study of the modern dra1na this winter. Their progran1 will consist in taking up some of the late plays for discussion and criticisn1. Papers and work on the evoluti()n of the modern dram&. ·will be read from tin1.,e to time. The club has been collecting a very complete library of n1odern dra1natic literature in the office of the Graduate C1ouncil, which is open for the use of the club m·etnbers. Meetings will be held in general ·every two weeks. ARRANGEMENTS FOR TRIP. The comn1ittee of the Terra-ce Council ' How·ell, Walworth and Lewis, to n1ake ar- rangements for the ·cenveyance oJ the student body to ·Clinton for the Hamilton game, have

' : f ' . ' 'l i l '' I ': 18 THE CONCiORDIEN:SiS the Graduwte Council plan of subscrihlng to the Alun1ni M·onth]y as a unit, thus ensuring every member's receiving the publication. For the first tin1e in the council's his:tory, an undergraduate was present and took an act- ive part in ithe proceedings. C. Albion Ken- worthy, '14, wttended the n1eeting as the official representative of his class. This innovation does n1uch to hear out Secretary Waldron's oft repeated assertion that the Graduate Council is the connecting link between alun1ni and un- dergraduates. UNION 25 YEARS AGO. -Welcome, '92. -Thirty-seven f reshm·en. -The freshman war-whoop is, Ra, Ra, Ra, Ru, Ru, Ru, B-oon1-a-1ing, Boom-a-ling, '92. -The Junior 1 s have taken an entirely new book in chen1istry. ''Perk\ says, \As science progresses, discard o19 books.\ -The popularity of our engineering course is shovvn by the fact that seventeen freshn1en ar-e registered engineers. }Jine have chosen the classical, w bile only seven are pursuing the regular scientific course. -Prof. Hofftnan has given out the follo:vv- ing subjects for senior essays: 1. \Is Science PTogressing ?\ 2. \What is the Field of Probability?\ 3. \What is the Difference, if any, Be- tw·een M·en and Brutes ?\ 4. \What is the Legi:tin1ate Use of the I . . ?\ magtnatt.on. -] ohn I. Bennett. '90, has returned to col- lege. -Cornell has established a department 1 of journalism. -Dartn1outh has graduated 337, and Atn- hers:t 200 college professors and presidents. -The _Union College corps of cadets has organized for the ·ensuing year ancl has elected its offic·ers and non-commissioned officers. -The few memhers of the senior class who have elected philology, find the subject very inter·esting and pro·fitable. Philology is one o·f th•e latest additi·ons .to the senior Hst of elec- tio-ns and every one should avail himself of the opporunity (){ taking 1i.t. -Dartn1outh has the cr·edit of publishing the first college publication, Yale second and Union third. 1915 DEFEATS FROSH. A 13-0 def·eat was administered by the sop- ho·tnore fo·otbaU team :to the freshmen eleven in t'he second g-am·e between the two under- classes J\tlonda y afternoon. The first gatne in this serie·s of three contes1ts ended in a no- score gan1e; each class therefore receive·d 10 p·oints toward the final hundred in the annual underclass athletic meet. Much interest was shown, both on the field and on the side lines, at the first gan1e and this interest increased at least ten f.o.Jd during last we·ek, so that Mon- day found a good sized group of \frosh\ on one side of the :field urging their tean1 on, a11cl a loyallo:t of \sophs\ 1nigrating with their tea1n along the east sideline. Upperclassmen, too, were pr~esent and watched the gan1e wi·th n1nch interest. The first thrill of the game was the rush of the ''sophs\ clo•\vn the field making first ·down tilne and tirne again and then a brace on the part of the first year lTI·en, f.o.r within the shadow of their own goal the freshmen held 1916 for downs. Haubner and the other fresh- lnen backs then sho\ved that th·ere were weak spots in the sophomore team but were nn'able to go over the line. The half ended 0-0 and each tean1 withdrew to \get an ear full of in- .struction\ fro~1n their respective coaches. The sec·ond half opened with a snap. In the second half, how·ever, the greater snap was n1ani.fest by the sophon1ores for Zimn1er ran his team with unusual \pep.\ The fake ki·ck play which the second year rnen endeavored to use in this half did not pr-o·ve effeotive in ground gain-ing but the forward pass which vv as tried several times netted good ground for 1916. A forward pass d-irectly in front . ·'l 1, . .. · f· I l t~ .\ 1:

o·f elec- of the the Union sop- eleven galne a no- 10 was lines, sed Mon- n . 0 on, their wi·th of ·down the the held fresh- weak 0 and of in- the was ran ki·ck in front THE ·cONCORDIENSIS 19 r·of the .fresh·man goal was executed nicely and a clean run around left end by Danner brought in the first 6 of 1916's ·p~1nts. \Veteran Finch\ kicked the goal. The ~eGond touchdown was also made; ·by Danner -after several pretty plays by Finch .. and Van D:eusen. . The game ended soon aft·er. this second score.- - 1916 cnow:has 30 p•o:ints to i•ts-cPedit in the athletic m;eet_, ,while tbe~ freshmen· have 10. The third:o::tlfthaftoothaU· games wilfoo played Saturdayri:l!ft~rnobn and--the.:field ·etven.ts)o.f -the n1eet will; :h~: ·,rufiJ ·0££ T(Uesday.- ·: Fr&li6~wing is the line-up of the tearhS~~f.dr Monday's game: '1916 f'. / ~ fr' r - -· ·-' :1917 ·J?erg<t£ .:,. __ ,.__,L __ . ____ -1~-~:...·..:...:. __________ Hawn '' rt·. . • ·L f·t. . -d· - . ·. '·. ·. · .. .-e Je•n: . .. . ..... . . - · DarPow ------ :: __ :.· _________ · _______ A·tWoO.d - . c-: ~t .. ' rl • I ' <teft ;tackle .. rSn1ith, <Alle-n, DeRotl-ville ------~----- Nash /~· :: )r~~ r:'i;-:·{ .1 tieft guatd. ' ' Stevens <:-'~~-::--:...- .... \t'-:.!.--~\'\--~------- · Boyl·e Center. Fletcher ---=·-=-:..=----- ________ .: ___ l(osinski .. ::-:- :, ..... Tf.' ~:1R_1gh·i guard. !Ii) '.1.~ ;' • i\ - . s . • r lJ.K-t;lTia.n. _ ...... ~-'\\'...:.._ .... ________________ tephens Right ta·ckle. I-I·ans·o:n -~~~-·---~~~----------- ·MacDermout Right end ... Zinuher.·~~ _· _ ~ ___ _ :: __ '\\\'~ _ 0. ·Hawn, Underwood Quarterback. Firich·· ___ ..:_r_: __ L~L--~-~--~-~..:. _____ Haubner L·eft halfback. Van Deusen ------~--- Sam·1nons, Stephens Right halfback. · D · . . T . anner --------------------------- ravt-s ' · · FUllback. Referee-'~Bil1\ Cronkhite; umpire-Dr. \Mac\; hea-d lines1nan-Houghton, '15. Time -4, R minute periods. P!.BOUT OTHER COLLEGES. The Wesleyan \fr·osh'' decisively defeated the Wesleyan \sophs\ in their annual track tneet by a score of 86-2.(). The freshmen secur- ed first plac-e in all events, but the shot put and the discus thr·ow. F. W. PoNer, 't7, was the individual star, securing three first places. The class of 1915 at Wesleyan was ·defeat-ed in a retnarkably well played football game by the class of 1914, Wesleyan. 'rhe seniors out- played the juniors on the offensive and had little trouble in winning the large end ·of a 20-0 score. Bible classes are soon to be started at Rut- . gers under :the direction of Secretary Sheperd -of the Christian . Association. The Rutgers.:Drainatic ·Club has chosen \His Exc-ellency, the Governor,'' for their perforn1- ance this year. · Inter-·class athletics seen1 to be the style just now. ·· The Colun1bia senior·s defeated the Columbia sophs in a- rather unexciting. game of baseball by a score of 8-1. The following appeared in the W es1eyan of recent date: \The latest college to draw up a formal ·set of rules to govern the pledging of freshmen to fraternities is Brown. The plan under con-sid,eration is to have an. inter-fratern- ity council, to be made up ·Of ·one represen'ta- . tive from fifteen of the twenty soc·ieties, V\rhich shall have a general oversight of fraternity matters and shall supervise the.\ \rushing\ and pledging of freshmen. This council shall name son1-e date early in the serond semes•ter, prev- ious to which no society may pledge any men. It is further pro-vided that no freshman shall be eligible for n1emhership in a fraternity un- less he has passed suc·c-essfully· twelve sem- ester hours of college work.\ The tango, turkey trot and other new dances have been barred in the University of Vennont. This action was taken through a vote of the student body. The following, from the Co.Jgate Madison- ens~is, speaks for itself: \In accordance with the new policy which the Peerless Motor Car has adopted, a nttn1her of picke-d graduates f ron1 the leading ~technical schools \Vill he taken into its organization ea·ch year. After these tflen have been through a post-graduate course

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS in their big Cleveland factories they wiH he as- signed to various departments where trained men are needed. This year the appointees cotne from Massachusetts Tech., Cornell, Pur- due, Syracuse and the University of Michi,- gan.\ The University of 'California is to have a new cinder track. Present plans include the oonstruction of bleachers, seating 10,000 peo- ple, and a quarter tnile oval \Vith a 220 yard straight-away. Work is to begin within the next few n1onths and will be completed by 1915. The estima·ted cost i8 placed at $50,000. An arrangement has been made whereby graduates of Annapolis are to have a year of graduate work in engineering at Columbia. With apologies to the Targum :- In many a scri·mmage I've been spilled, Ancl thought for sure that I was killed, Anct rnany's the time I'Ye pressed the clay Under a ,cro\vd, in a Dawson play. And· vvhen it's asked, \Who is that dnb ?\ They glibly answer \qnly a sub.\ But tho' I ne'er the varsity make, I'll still stick fast, for Union's sake. Epitome of the Sport of Football as Exemplified at Union on Sat- urday, October 18th. (The English department has recently is- sued an edict condemning collegiate reporting of sports in an attempted \sporting\ way.) The fact that Wesleyan Universi·ty's repre- sentatives in that branch of intercollegiate ex- istence com,monly term·ed football succeeded in coercing the leather-bound ovoid which is the nucleus of stri{e, in no way tended to ex- acerbate or otherwise p·erturb the mental equili- briun1 of those of this institution who witnes·s- ed the ·conflict from the extremeties of the arena. Indeed, nevertheless, the inc-essant tu- nlult and strenuous and c-oncerted cries with which the spectators urged on, stimulated, and otherwise reinforced the e-nergies of the par- ticipants gave reason 'to these spectators to esteem themselves for s·o acting with such acumen. Had it not been for the 1nachinations and tnalfeasanee of tw·o persons, Mr. L. Deetjen and Mr. Eustis, ho~th of Middletown, in the state of Connecticut, certain exigencies would never have eventuated. But it was not so much the blatant manner in which these two persons hurled themselves over the terra firma as it \vas the impetual inertia with which they suc- ceeded in ,checking the advanc-e of their oppon- ents which brought 1:o pass the climaxes of the post -·meridional con:flict. Let it not be beHeved thart the vanquishing o·f the selected gentleme-n-students who rep- sen ted this Alma Ma·ter was in any way dero- gatory or humiliating. To the contrary our Alma Ma~ter may well be proud of the achieve- ments of Commander Sarvey and the other youths who so succ-essfully turned the flux of baitle toward the impregnability of Wes- leyan's goal. COLLEGE CALENDAR. Friday, O·ctober 31.-Y. M. ,C. A. social, Silliman Hall. Sunday, Nov. 2.-V es:per s,ervice, Silliman Hall, 4:30 P. M. Monday, Nov. 3.--'College m~eeting, chapel, at noon. Tuesday, Nov. 4.-'Cabinet meeting, Silli- man Hall, 1 P. M. Tuesday, Nov. 4.-. No,rmal Bible Study Class, Sillima-n Hall, 5 P. M. Wednesday, Nov. 5.-Neutral Bible Study Class, Silliman Hall, 4 :30 P. M. \His work was pressing, father dear, And his love for it was great; He took his leave and went a'\vay Before a quarter of eight.\ Then a twinkle came to her bright blue eye, And her dimple deeper grew, \ 'Tis surely no sin to tell him that; For a quarter of eight is two.\ -Case Tech.

such and n the much as it sue- ppon- the rep- dero- y our bieve- other flux Wes- hapel, Silli- Study Study e eye, Tech. ' . ' I \; I > i' ! '. : THE CO:NCORDIENSIS 21 CHINESE STUDENT ENTERS WILL- IAMS. E~e-Ki Chow of Peking, China, recently student attache to the Chinese legation at Washington, hlas entered Williams College \vith the class of 1917. Mr. Chow was born at Canton, China, in 1893. For three years he attended the Can- ton Christian College as preparatory stu- dent, freshman, and sophomore. A bout a year and a half ago, he came to Washington as one of~ the six students attached to the Chinese legation. Now he is under appoint- n1ent from the Chinese government as ~ student in this country. Such government students are selected by extremely r~gorous exatninations for a collegiate course in an American college or university. Chovv offers eleven year's study of Chin- ese classics as a substitute for the ordinary Latin requirements. George Howard Lovequest, forn1erly of Chicago, now of Racine, Wis., is literally fighting his way through the law s-chool of the University of Wisconsin. He fights at 133, Marquis of Queensberry, when he is not wrestling with Blackstone. He is known in the ring as \Young McGann,\ and is the only tnan known here who has adopted pugilisn1 as a tneans of paying his expenses in school. Lovequest was born on the south side in Chicago, where they develop \scrappers.\ In 1910 he entered Wisconsin as a law stu- dent and will be graduated next year. When he entered he cast about for a means of pay- ing expenses. His friend Peter McGann suggested boxing. He approved of it, and his first professional bout was with a man nan1ed Britt, at Oregon, Wis. McGann stopped hhn in the first round. This brought hitn to the attention of promoters, and since then he has had no trouble in getting t11atches whenever he needed money. He ranks high as a student and says that as soon as he is through school he also will be through with the ring. HERE'S A HOT SHOT. A bulletin of the western Reserve U ni- versity speaks of the student publications, in part, as follows : \Neither The Folio nor The Reserve Weekly is in reality representative of stu- dent thought, literary taste and life. And the saddest thing of all to one who syn1pa- thizes with them and wishes them well is that they tend to grow worse instead of bet- ter as the years go by and the number of students increases.\ ---- With the engagment of Coach Pat O'Dea, the noted Wisconsin oarsman, as rowing coach, the old form of stroke used at Stan- ford University has been discarded and the n1ore modern eastern system has been sub- situated instead. As a result of the sixth day's contribution at Harvard for the new gymnasium fund, a little less than $1,000 was collected, mak- ing the total for the week over $10,000. The Freshmen are still leading in the an1ount contributed, having given over $3,000, and the Seniors bring up the rear with $2,046. The Juniors lead the Sophomores by only seven dollars having amassed $2,395. Stevens Institute has adopted a Student's Council, which corresponds to the Terrace Cotu1 cil at Union. The youngest man ever to obtain a degree of doctor of philosophy at Harvard is Nor- bert Wiener, the 18-year-old son of one of the professors. He entered college at the age of 11 and graduated three years later, and after spending a year at Cornell he went to Harvard. He has specialized in philosophy and mathetnatics and will teach fron1 now on.- Ex.

22 THE CONCORDIEN:SIS DEPENDS. Traveler (hastily)-''Porter, have I time to kiss my wife good-by?\ ''How long have you been n1arried ?\ -Life. It has been decided in Michigan that a reporter should be entitled to compensation if injured while on the trail of a story. Now we n1ay expect Herald reporters to double their efforts in the pursuit of the elusive news story. PULITZER SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM Opens New Building at Columbia Univer- sity Costing $500)000. With the beginning of the year at Col- umbia University on September 24, the new building of the Pulitzer School of Journalism, which has been in course of construction for a year and a half, threw open its doors. The ,building cost $500,000. Save for presses and linotype machines, the new building houses what would be commercially a complete plant. Practically the entire structure has been adapted for work in journalism, and from reporters' rooms and editors' offices to libraries and clipping files it is perhaps one of the most complete buildings of its kind in the world. The base1nent is given over to the Univer- sity Bookstore and the Spectator, the uni- versity daily paper. In the entrance hallway are base reliefs of Delane, Franklin, Greeley, and 'fhomas. The first floor contains the offices of the directors and of the administrative board and four lecture rooms, two having a cap- acity of about two hundred and twenty-five students each. History, politics, and economics will con- stitute an important part of the course in journalisn1, and. the proposed arrangements of the second floor will place the material for the study of these subjects at the most accessible point, while immediately above the laboratory, on a mezzanine floor, will be lecture roon1s for class instruction and a ''City Room.\ 'The city room has a specially constructed semi-circu1ar desk, such as most newspaper otfiees have for copy reading. .This desk is in the eenter of the room and around it ar·e typewriters for \reporters file racks, telephones and all th'e equipment that one finds in the up-to-date newspaper city room. The students will handle the copy, as in a real offi-ce, cover assignments and do re- w.riting. On the whole the training that the students will get in the city room will be approximately the same as that which a cub reporter gets in actual service. SHORT-SKIRTED CHORUS BARRED. University of Illinois men who are to appear as chorus girls in ''The Prodigal Prince\ were informed that long dresses must be worn. WHY GO TO COLLEGE? Barber-No college student need apply. West Farmington Banking Co., West Farmington, G.-Advertisement in Cleve- land Plain Dealer. All of the members of the sopho_more class at Yale except two have agreed not to join the Bones, Key or Wolf Head's senior societies as now constituted. For the first time in its history, the Yale football team is instructed by a paid coach this year. FOOLED! HE BIT. \Yes I told father that white poker chip I dropped was a peppermint tablet.\ ''Did he swallow it?\ 1st Prof.-\In my opinion that student can't even think.\ 2d Prof.-\Oh yes, he does some.. He thinks he can think.\

a paper desk it one . . as lll re- the ill be a cub to West eve- to . Yale I He \ Announcement: The '\Concordiensis\ Management has secured permission from the C.ollege authorities to place a Bulletin Boa:rd on the campus, next to the College Bulletin Board. The 'use of this Board will be restr~icted to important news bulletins and o,fficial Announcements .made by the Editorial staff of the publication. Any advertiser in our columns who wishes to post a ,special notice on the Bulletin will be given space, witll.out charge. Such notice, however must not be un· reasonable in size, nor extravagant in language, and must be sent to the Assistant Business Manager, KARL E. AGAN, Delta Upsilon House, College 'Grounds. COLLEGE SHOES for COLLEGE BOYS AT EMERY'S ·· We Announ:ce the season's latest developments in refined apparel ior the par.ticu· lar man ......... . Clothing · - · Furnishings - · - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Albany's Progressive Drug Store Morris Drug Co. 26-28 No. Pearl St. Crossett Bench Made· $5 and $6 Albany Ralston Health Shoes $4 and $4.50 Agency for Whitman's EMERY'S 11\nss, tlrt 1Barhtr 429 State St. Schenectady V. E. Wbeldea, Manager SAY i'Ot.l SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY,. A

For College Men 2 OF C'OURSE WE ARE EN- DEAVORING to conduct this pharmacy in a matter that will please all. Howev,er we can safely say that the student wiU iad much here to interest him. Come in and becorne acquainted. ·Our Fountain is well known for the goodness of the tbings which are served there and it has many friends on the Hill. Ask the Other Fellow 2 Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY Your Best Judgment urges--this winter a Steefol suit or overcoat. You know Steefels became Steefels by doing things a little better than the other fellow. A few minutes on our overcoat or suit floors will explain why Steefels is growing bigger and st~or-.~ger every day. -Come Winter suits ani o,vercoats $10 to $6(). Established' 23 Years ''Up t:o ~the Top in ·Gentlemen's Clothes\ I, ... ;fl \. -.!2i,~' ·. ·you are a College Man Let us show you what \class\ goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity brothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your chums. SlULL BROS., Tailors Opp. Old Post Office . 15 8 Jay Street Jattnu & ijull ~qnes SA.Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \COlSCORDY 1\ ' \ i ' \ ,\ \. II \ 1. I I r

- PARSONS' ORCHESTRA :Music P urnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Ca. 142 STATE S'TREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest cash prices 310' State Street, Schenectady Engleman & Bellinger PA I:NTS, ... OlLS Dealers in aU kinds o.f Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A ' 6 'SQUA~E D·BAL 9 ' · for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We , :guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the : Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give • satisfaction an.d a reasonable amount of service. A G S ·uld1·n & B 126-128 Nassau Street : • • pa · ' g lOS. 520 5th Ave., New York • Send for Cataloatue · VanVoast & Leonard ============= GENERAL INSURANCE Quick - Active -·Service The Schenectady Clothing Company ~ Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES Cigars Ice Cream Soda . . . The Best Made Shoes in the World St. RegiS Pharmacy' 200 Union St. They wear longer-they cost less. Prescriptions Accurately Compounded ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY Toilet Articles 206 So .. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN 1'HE •coN CORDY•'

Ul!,t ifnmptntt Albauy THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS lN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts,. Our prices are ri~ht-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us ' an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to pl~:ase. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 I. JT. 04nru 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN C.ups AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\'

us • Y. Y. Even·ing Clothes for that ·Glee Club Trip $38.0·0 TO $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN 61 ·7 State Street Union Boys, The best paper for your correspondence is CRAN'E'S LI;NEN LAWN· We have it in Club Size, Embossed in Union Seal, Garnet and Gold. The Miniature Brass Shields Just Arrived The Gleason Book Co .. 104 JAY :STREET SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLOR·lST'' JULIUS EGER Teleph.oae 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street TH~E KITCHEN :is the Workshop of the Home You can no more expect to get modern results with the old style kitchen than you can ·expect a manu- facturer to suc~ceed with the tools of yesterday. Successful home makers have found that the surest way to get satisfactory results is to install the modern, all gas kitchen. 'Phone 2500 and one of our representatives will call and advise and show you how little it costs . Mohawk Gas Company UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

I ' I i ' ' THE. TEN EYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock · Al1o THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hotela conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady Some of the Fellows won on the Athletics Some of the Fellows won on the Giants But all of the Fellows win on WATERS '7HE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE . STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING arid Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE CONCORDY\

Y. A R . z·t· ' 0· . h· . t . furnished music at Union College 1905, • . • . l a S fC ' es ra '06, '07, '08, '09, '10, 'I I, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in t'he World HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broa~way and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great difference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own green- hou_s~s right here in Schenectady by pat- ronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted ;DANCING Waltz, Two Step, Three Step & Bluebell taught in One Term MODERN DANCING The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz .and the One Step taught in three lessons. All Lessons guaranteed. FRANK M. CAIN, Master of Dancing Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot Telephone 2723-J Jrnf. 31. 31. 1Ktlgullru For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 21 08-W 'Juinu NuttnuulJiuuk. Thalman, Caterer t;rl}ruertubyf N. v. 238 State Street Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent L VQN'S The Store With Over · 1 1 xoo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE 'CON CORDY''

{' I. ' ''t 1.· t ~ .!. ' i· ' i I l I I t l l ' ! I . I l I I i' I d ~ t : l i j I l ' ! I I I I l l ' '' I 1 l ! i ; I I I ' ~ I f ' ~ I • i f } ' I ~ '! ' ' i ,. r· An Oil Heater is .great for a chilly day. The perfection atove we offer at $3.00:. The Rayo Lamp wiU not smoke, gives a atrong, bright light--$1. 98 COFFIN BROS . . 303-305 STATE STREET Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gowns and H;oods AJ. AJ. W~tarlt DELICATESSEN \Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back .of St. John's Church 'To the Ametican Colleges and Universities from · · the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty . 'PHONE 298- W 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regilla Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirt• and Collars, Fo\vnes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hate, Beat Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men r ) I Higgins' I l Drawin~ lnka Eternal W ritinl! Ink En~roasinl! Ink Taurine Mucilal!e Photo Mounter Paate Drawin~ Board Paate Liquid Paste Office Paste V e~etable Glues, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive a.nd ill-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Cbicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Visthn!J Ca,.,ds \Jeddtn~ Stahonery \Bustne s Ca-rds-Letter Heads Class Pins-Mono~rams Crests, Coats ~f Ar~s etc:. • -l '· ..DESIGNE:f\8 '·,. £ NGf\AVEf\:S Pf\INTEf\~ f:MBOSSeJtS SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coNCORDY\

Paate Paate etc. orro- be a SO Y. Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop 1 , Motorcycle ·and Autom.obile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles ROSES, O·RCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME ~tQrutrta!ly ~rt Jrrsa J. H, COMO, Prop. · 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will .see to-morrow in other Shoes. M.STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 ·State St. Schenectady The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BlNDERS Ofhjgh-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York ~ity GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACB TELEPHONE 4258-W ~ SlCHiiN1i:CTADY A.ltT I\RIIi:8.

,, l·· i i ! I i l l. ;, ,, ~ i ! l i ,, ; < 't ' ,. '; i ,, ,, I '< \ l sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN.: YJI e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells - - --------- ---·-- the right kind, and naturally 1nust sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a .little ·we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240·44 State Street SAY YOU SAW 11' IN THE CONCORDY\

