UN,ON COLLEGE NUMB[R VOLUM~ 37 NUMBER 19

,, : ... '!: : ''• ,' ,;l, ' ' ' UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES AL·EXANDER RICH MONO, D. D., LL .. D .. Chancellor UNION CO,LLEGE The college ofiers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: . 1. Courses leacUng to tlu~ degree of A. B .. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addi tim~ to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B .-.Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Cour&e leadl:ug to tll.e degree of Ph.. D .. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRse-This course offers Latin without Gree:k, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and scien~e. 8. Cour11te lending tfll Ote degree ot B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the '5ciences, · the funda- mental principles of the spe'Cial branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CoURSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Course-a lending to graduate degree11. CouRSE LEADING \l'O DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of gtaduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 284S for free ~ample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE I .. EADTNG To DEGREE oF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTl\tlENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, pracu tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, ]. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: 1v1atriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $r 10. For catalogue or other in formation, address: JoH:N C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ., ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue g-iving full in formation, address. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exsms\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ., CONCORDY ., ·-

of . of . lS s: ·- THE CON·CORDIENSIS Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical @·· or In the''Wee Sma' Hours''. When you·re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a ·QUIZ- When your making up that '' d. . ., ' con Itlon - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c h e e r in g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Ra.diator, ready at the turn of a switc·h, any time, day or night an~d attachable to any lamp socket. Try .one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminatint Co. Made by ' General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Sho~ - -·- 310 STATE STREET I Schenectady, N.Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER•S PATRONIZERS

t • If. • • ; • THE C·ONCORDIENSIS H~ome-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed 'The ~Sign of th.e Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS . .31 Steuben Street, 109 No. Pearl Street E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and.-.Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and headaches should. consult. ' . GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist SUITS \ MADE TO ORDER ' ' ' $20.00 to $40.00 --.AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. TI-lE PNION TRUST COMPANY, of Alba;ny GRANGE' SARD, . .' • • President T. I. Van ANTWERP, - Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Trea1. ARTHU~ L,. ANDREWS, • General Coun•el 't • .. ' ' • Main office~ 4 7 State .St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • K .. H. Solag.hiari Photographs \While You Vi ait\ Jllaltt 1£unrQ Fellows: Drop in for an ; informal photo - you'll > Steuben St~, Albany, N. Y. appreciate it later. . •· . . •. • . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO ) 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. , I ';~ ALBANY ART UNION . . ~li otogra phs---ArttSitC 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \

l ' :'1 '' ' THE CONCORDIEN,SIS \ l • \ '\ ' f I • * •••.• -··--·-- ,_ ...... Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Get To·morrow's .Style To-day in a Regal. Shoe '·. The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow in other Shoes. . M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. I Schenectady ' . . Age.ncy for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles I PRINTING ..... THAT IS RlGHT, REASONABL'E AND ON TIME &t4t~daPy Art Jtt!Ul · J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-S TILLY, The Barber . ., We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ifurt'~ . ' ~ ' ' ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS . . ' • l •,. \. • . ., .. \ ' ) '\ ' I 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANYi, N .i Yt ~ . Both Telephones 208 I The Newland- Von Ri;tter Compa11r PRINTERS & BINDERS . 'i '• Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets, and, Fraternity. and Society Printing, Law, Library, Maga:z;ine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and. Devices and Special Ruling. · The ·only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR ,. .. 224 FIFTH A VENUE ~- ~ New York City GERBER- ''45 ·seconds From The Blue ,Gate.\ . GERBER ,\-4 '\I : I Suits cleane~, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it ;will ·be~ done right. Work called for and delivered . . , I 146 NOTT TER~ACB TELEPHONE 4258 .. W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA1.,RONIZERS

'THE CONCORDIEN:SIS F. W. Mullin .J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin ''Tl:te House of Fine Clothes\ PROPRIETORS BABBITT'S ~anit& Olnmpaug Preliminary· Displa~ of Spring 1914 Clothes . Now Ready Clothes which distingui:s:bt this store :from all the rest for 100 ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper miles around 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Makes beg1nning wi·th ROGERS- PEET and endin .. g with ~the ''Frankel 'Fifteen'' which we· alone can ~urn ish in this Capitol City Territo·ry $12.50 .to $45 BALMACAAN & GLENGARRY COATS FOR ·COLLEGE MEN Is the spotlight attraction here to-day.. The new models now highest in favor, all ~cravanetted for rain or sunshine wear. $13.50 to $35 Babbitt & Co. 451-453 B.roadway ''Albany's Greates.t Clothiers'' Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT lN THJC \ CON CORDY \

THE C.QNCORDIEN8IS Vis~it Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee : STEINWAY WEBER Cluett & Sons AND PIANOLA PIANOS ONE ·P·RI\CE PIANO HOUSE 508 STATE ST., SCHENE'CTADY, N~. Y Are You Progressing?. \If It's Made of Rubber We Have.lt\ Are y~ou in need of sho:e repairin·g? If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State :Street, opposite Jay St., and let us, exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the .same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires I!J Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores H 0 L T z M A N 's LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to--day. ADI_JER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTH:ES and MARK CROSS GLOVES ~ French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOL'TZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Larg~st Clothiers COR. STATE AND WAU. STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE C:QNCORDIENSIS DRAWING SUPPLIES ------- BEST QUALITY --- LOW PRICES· Drawing Instruments, Drawing Boards, Tee Squars, Angles, Drawing Paper, Drawing Pens, Art Gum and Ink. EVERYTHING FO·R THE .STUDENT ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ·ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~!RN!~ 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~~~~ ~~g D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11990078 1199113 College Representative I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. \Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building . SAY YOU SAW IT lN THE \ CONCORDY \ ' ' ,;

. ' ·' THE CON·CORDIEN•S:IS Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery .by n1essengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Broa. ALBANY Stee/el Quality Clothes Ready for Spring Aside from their striking style and their clean cut appearance it is the quality, the fabric and fit which have made Steefel Clothes the talk of talk of the town. Priced $10 to $45. You have a look coming to you. Come in. Spring Hats, Gloves, Shoes and Furnishings also ready ·PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTI:F:UL\ Vaudeville- ... Ph·otoplays Every afternoon & Evening 3 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feat·ure Pictures Special Music Nrm 1llrubnmr lfntrl A Good Eng]:ish Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to $5. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for a:ll occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST .. , SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

·THE CON·CORDIENS>IS The Kind of Men Who ''Roll Th·eir Ovvn'' They are the finest type of men in the world-resourceful, perse- vering, active in mind and body - always striving, always accomplislz- ingin every line of human endeavor. The creative instinct is strong in these men. They like to make their own cigarettes, with their own hands, just the way they want them. They prefer the cigarettes they roll. for them- selves from ripe, mellow\Bull\ Durham tobacco to any ready-made kind they can buy. GENUINE:. ··BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO (Enough for forty hand-made cigarettes in eac., 5c sa~) Once a man learns the rich, fragrant freshness and delightful, mellow flavor of ''Bull\ Durham hand .. made A$kforFREE '6ook of u papers .. with each5c sack cigarettes he never smokes any other kind. Get \the Makings\ today-''roll your own''-and obtain thorough, healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction. F R E E An Illustrated Booklet, · showmg how to \ Roll Your Own,'-' and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free~ to any address in U.S. on postal reqllest. Address'& Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C., Room 1210. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY miiiJIUIIJillllllllllllllUlllllllllllllllll ......................... ~·uu· 1209 ! . '

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 APRIL 2, 1914 THE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME. Red and Black P·ut Up Good Battle, But in Vain. By defeating Wesleyan at Troy, Satur- day night, March 14, by a score of 34 to 14, Union attained the championship of the Northeastern Intercollegiate League. The game was the play-off of a tie, which was the result of a grim chase from behind by the Union boys, and came as a double joy, bee a use at one time in the season the achieve1nent seemed almost impossible. The gan1e itself, after the first few mo- ments of play, was never in doubt. The Garnet five played with a dash and \pep\ and surety which swept their rivals off their feet. It was by far the best form dis- played this year, and came as a result of fast and clever teamwork. Wesleyan's star men could not seem to break loose or to play up to the whirlwind game the Hill- toppers displayed. Most all of Union Col- lege, past and present and future, was on the job to encourage the boys, and it was considerable encouragement, too. A large delegation from' Middletown was on hand to support its team, and the R. P. I. boys were there with their \Stephen Van Rens- selaer\ and \Sons of Old R. P. I.\ to keep the echoes in a continual state of neurotic agitation. It was impossible to squeeze another person around the outskirts of the modified court; or, you may be sure, he would have been there. The individual work of the players was only one side of the teamwork which won the game. Clever feeding, clever guarding, clever footwork, were responsible for the victory. It was \Joe\ Haubner's big night. The fast little forward caged five baskets, most of them of the spectacular kind~ and worked well with the rest of the tean1.. Houghton rang up three field baskets and ten foul shots, besides holding Winchester to a blank field basket record, which in it- self is a considerable feat. \Jake\ :Beaver slipped two tallies into the magic circle. \Teedy\ Woods got only one basket, but the writer failed to see a single tip-off that wasn't all \Teed's.\ His defensive game was above par, and he was all over the floor, ready to slip the ball to some player under the basket most of the time. '~Dave\ Beaver got a sweet reven.ge, which the whole college could well appreciate, when he. held our swift little friend, Deetjen,. to a blank score, and caged one hirnself for good measure. Machine-like, illusive, fast team play, coupled with star individual performances all round, won the victory. The game began in a way which prom- ised a tight fast struggle, with the outcome in the hands of fate. The first break came

12 THE C10NCORDIENSIS when Winchester fouled. Houghton couldn't get his eye on the basket, and the game was still scoreless after five minutes of play. Soon afterwards the tables were turned and Wesleyan forged ahead by one point when Winchester scored a foul basket. Then Wesleyan's heavier team began to slow up a little and Houghton slipped two fouls into the ring. The most spectacular ,:.'1 CAPTAIN ''JAKE\ BEAVER. play of the night followed this, when Haub- ner dodged w·inchester and shot the ball from the middle of the court for a field goal. A moment later, after another foul had been scored by Houghton, Haubner got free again and tossed the ball over his head one-handed for the second basket. Then Houghton hung up another couple of points, this time on a pretty field basket from near the center of the court. Just about this time the score was 12 to 1 in favor of the Union team, and joy was unconfined. After this Union scored seven points and Wesleyan six, ·making the score at the end of the first half 17 to 7. The interlude between the halves was spent in a triple contest between R. P. I., Wesleyan and Union in cheering and sing- ing, which was appreciated by the neutral spectators as much as by the participants. The second half went like the first. W es- leyan dropped back and played a defensive game and Union forged ahead. This half was livened by Wesleyan's attempts tp stop \Joe\ Haubner. Three men were sent against him, and none got away with any- thing. Practically all the Middletown squad took part in this half; Haubner, Woods and Houghton each playing at least two men. Scoring started off slowly until Woods got free from his man when 'the whole team was down at the Wesleyan end of the court. He waited patiently by the basket till some one passed him the ball, when he scored, with time enough to climb the pole and drop the ball in. After that Union found its speed again and the game ended with the score 34 to 15. Winchester, the Albany boy, who plays with Wesleyan, played a plucky game. He, however, had little chance to show, as he put himself out of the game on four per- sonals before the first half ended. Eaton, who took 'Ninchester's place, put up a good article of ball, too. The score: Union (34) Fb. Fp. Tp. J. Beaver, rf .................. 2 0 4 I-Iaubner, If. . .................. 5 0 10 Woods. c. . .................... 1 0 2 Houghton, lg. . ................ 3 10 16 D. Beaver, rg .................. 1 0 2 Totals ..........•........ 12: 10 34 .i ' \-i I i

.i ' ·-i I i • i ? 1 I , I ~ Wesleyan (14) Fb. Fp. Tp. Winchester,. rf. . ............. 0 4 4 Eaton, rf. . .................. 1 4 6 Deetj en, lf. . ................. 0 0 0 Allison, c. . ...............•.. 1· 0 2 Roy, c. . .................... 0 0 0 W estcot!t, rg. . ................. 1 0 2 Craig, rg .................... 0 0 0 Hinsley, rg. . ................ 0 0 0 Trevithick, lg. . ............. 0 0 0 T ortals . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 8 14 Summary: Score at half time-Union, 17; Wesleyan, 7. F1oulls comm\itteed-Union, 12; Wesleyan, 15. Referee--Tom Thorpe, Columbia. Umpire-Murray Lee, Colum- bia. Time of halves-Twenty minutes. THE SCHEDULE. January 9-Rochester at Schenectady. U., 23; R., 15. January 17-West Point at. West Point. U., 33; W. P., 13. January 21-Cornell at lthaca-U., 18; c., 23. January 24-Broowlyn Tech at Schen- ectady-U., 61 ; B., 18. January 31-Colgaite :at Ham~lton-U., • 20; c., 11. February 7-Williams at Williamstown -U., 14; W., 24. Wesleyan at Middletown---D., 18; W., 22. February 21-· Brooklyn Tech at Brooklyn -U., 37; B., 7. February 28-R. P. I. at Troy-U., 27; R. P. I., 13. March 7- Williams at Schenectady-U., 28; w., 18. ' March 14-Wesleyan at Troy-U., 34; W .. , 15. March 21-R. P. I. at Schenectady---U., 25; R. P. I., 12. Totals-Union, 379; Opponents, 228. FINAL LEAGUE STANDING. W. L. u n.i'on .................... ·s 2 Wesleyan ........ , ........ 4 3 Williams . . ............... 3 3 Colgate ................... 1 5 INDIVIDUAL SCORES. 13 Pet. .714 .571 .500 .166 Games. Points. Ho11ghton .................. 13 D. Beaver ................. 13 Woods ..................... . 13 J. Reaver .................. 14 Haub~ner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Cleve~Iand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Gir !ling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 4 135 65 62 54 51 8 4 Totals ............................. 379 ALMA GLUCK'S CONCERT. Pers()nality and Voice of Singer Win Healty Appreciation o.f All. uGi~ve a long yell for Alma Gluck,\ said \Buck as the first concert singer to ap- pear in our gym took her place on the stage. With the assistance of Mr. A. Rosen- stein, accompanist, Madame Gluck ans- wered with one of the finest concerts imagi~nable . The artist has a wonderful personality. Ev.en in her first air she won her audience by her girlish eagerness; and with Friday night's concert in mind, it is easy to see that to her personality she owes much of her success. In addition, every one noted her lovely, sympathetic voice and the ma- 'turity }of her lcoti_cqption of ;the various pie,ces. No further proof of the singer's versality is needed than the fact that she sang in eight different languages. Her mastery of technicalities reminded us of Sembrich; and in the \Swanee Ribber\ a Sem'brich-like smoothness was apparent to all. Her voice may be lacking in power,

14 THE CON·CORDIENSIS but such a {~Dnsideration is forgotten be- cause of its absolute sweetness. In Mc- Dowell's \Long Ago'' one could imagine that he heavd the lovely tones of Zimba]ist's violin as he ,?tayed the piece last year .s Grand opera selections and songs w,ere both appreciated, but the favorites were the :folk songs. Hebrew plaintiveness, Spanish abandon, ItaHa.n vivacity, Get·man light- heartedness a.nd French delicacy were all represented. \'The Braes o' Balghidder'' and \The Swanee Ribber'; were well re- ceived, but the audience was completely entranced with Sembrich 1 s favorite encore, \Comin' Thvo' the Rye\ and our owrt HHome, Sweet Home.\ Singing like G1uck's makes us glad she called Union \my col- lege.'' It is unfortunate that Paderewski's recital in Troy was held the same night and that the weather was unpropitious. Neverthe- less, the audience was large, and the stu .. dent seats were well filled; President Rich- mond has announced that the profits from the concert will be used in purchasing equipment for the gymnasium. Our grati- tude is due to the Schenectady ladies who made the concert possible. THE BASEBALL OUTLOOK~ At the present time everything seems to point towards a successful baseall season for Union this year. Coach Dawson for some time has been training \Dutch'' Nau- n1ann's aggregation in the art o£ playing the national game and . the result seems to be the develo,pment of some excellent ma- terial from the freshman class, as well as the loosening- up of the old regulars from last year. Jenkins and H urn mer are iast rounding thetnselves into shape, and Boller and O'I(eefe are showing good fottn also. Owing to the comparatively large number of men trying out this year, the coach will be able to pick a choice bunch to represent tll.e university on the diamond. ·The new athletic field is far from ready for use, on account of the recent snows and rains, but indoor practice is being carried on constantly in the gym, and the team will no doubt be fully ready for the first game 9 which is to take plac.e on the R. C. AlexM$ ander field April 18\ The Schedule .. April 18-Stevens; on ca.m1pus4 April 25-Rutgers, at New Brunswick. May 2-R. P. L, at Troy. May s.._Hamilton, at Clinton. May 9-Hamilton, on catRpus. May 13-Colgate, at Hamilton. May 16-----Rochester, on campus. May 23-Wesleyan, on campus. May 27-Army, at West Point. May 30-~ Rutgers, on campus. June 6-R. P. I., on campus. June 9-Colgate, on cam pus. PROHIBITI-ON CLUB. The next meeting of the cl 1 ub will be held Friday evening at Silliman Hall. All mem .. hers are urged to be present. The meetings are given over to discussions as outlined in Warner's \Social Welfare and the Liquor Problem.\ UNION DEFEATS, R. P. I. Second Game Taken From 'Trojans by the Garnet Quintet. Again the Rensselaer qui11 tet went down to defeat at the merciless hands of the Garnet team, when, for the second . time, they met, this on Union's own court. Everyone remembers the trip to Troy and the outcome of the first game, therefore it was folly to ask of this one_, \Who won?\ -and so they only said, \Well what was the score?'' The answer is no secret, and to keep the kind reader from an annoying pause in relating it at a later tin1e, let us

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 say right here that we beat them by more than twice their own score, or, in other words, 25 to 12. Do not get the idea confused that R. P. I. had a poor team. They had itnproved a great deal since our first game with them and the champions had to do some \tall going'' to keep the ball out of their terri- tory. Although the team work of Rens- selaer's five in this game was better than the Garnet's, they failed dismally to connect the pill with the basket, as the score shows. The absence of \Teedy\ Wood's was at first thought to be a serious handicap to the Union team, but his place was taken care of by \Peck\ Cleveland. \Joe\ Haubner and \Ernie\ Houghton were to blame for the biggest individual ,scores for Union, while McMannus and and Kenlock made tile most points for R. P. I. The line up and scores are as follows: Union (25) Fg. Ft. Tp. Haubner, 1£. . ...•....•...•... S 0 10 ]. Beaver, rf. . ............... 2 0 4 Cleveland, c. . ............... 0 0 0 1-Ioughton, lg ................ 2 5 9 D. Beaver, rg. . .............. 1 0 2 R. P. I. (12) Fg. Ft. Tp. Conklin, If. . ................ 0 0 0 Iche, rf. . ................... 1 0 2 M,cMannus, c. . .............. 2 0 4 Ehan, lg. . ................... 0 0 0 K 1 \k \ - 2-\ 6 \en oc , rg ................. 2 Referee-Reering, Manhattan. Umpire- . Granger, Troy. · Time-20 minute halves. PROSPECTIVE MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF 1932. Born to Mr. and Mrs. James Warren, of St. Louis, a son-James Warren, Jr. Born to Mr. and Mrs John J. McCor- mick, of Albany, a son. Born to Mr. and Mrs. Judson Zimmer, of Gloversville, a daughter (a fair co-ed). A SONG TO THE TEAM. 'rhe football days, with autumn's haze, Are passed and left behind, And winter chill invades the \hill\ With snow and biting wind. No longer bright with shi1nmering white, The new spread yard-lines glow, 'The sunbeams dance the broad expanse Of deep, untrodden snow. The Mohawk shrinks between her brinks, And h ush.ed is every rill, But other joys have seized the boys On Union College Hill. Now tier on tier, they loudly ~heer, The team comes on the floor; And well they may, for day by day She makes a winning score. N ovv \Teedie\ Woods supplies the goods, The flagpole's chief distinction; The student howls and \Erny's\ fouls Are shot quite to extinction. Old \Captain Jake\ is wide awake And any time you ask it A dozen stunts he does at once . ' And shoots a \grandstand\ basket. And then we rave for \Brother Dave \ ' \!Vho pulls another wonder; The \new gyn1\ reels before the peals Of cheering-section thunder. Then \Haubner Joe\ piles up a row 0 baskets to his credit ' And does the trick so deuced slick It's done before I said it.

16 THE CONCORDIEN51S And so the team pulls off a stream Of \Union wins\ decisions, And neatly slips the championship Among our \hard fact'' visions. So now we raise a song of praise· To seconds, subs and victors, And all get fed a sumptous spread, While papers print their \picters.\ \H ukweem.\ PLANS FOR COMMENC·EMENT. Alumni Night to be a Big One. Unique plans are being made for Alumni Night of Commencement Week by the Committee of the Graduate Council. 1~he \ring\ will be roped off this year and each class will have ample opportunity to go the limit in the originality and completeness of its entertainment. One of the new features is the singing contest for the undergraduates. Hiss Helen Ludlow is the donor of a silver cup to the class making the best showing. Miss Lud- low is sister to the revered FitzHugh Lud- low, who gave us the imm,ortal \Song to Old Union,\ and the \Terrace Song.\ The points to be considered in awarding the cup are; first, the number of men sing- ing; second, the artistic merit; and third, originality. The first song may be either an original or a popular one of which two or more verses must be sung, and the con- cluding selection will be one verse of \Alma Mater.\ The seniors, of course, will have their class song in preparation, which may be sung in the contest. In as much as the first point of consid- eration in the award of the cup is that of numbers, it is needless to urge that every member of each class participate. The cos- tumes which the \studes\ will wear during the previous merry-making will in no way influence the judging of the contest. It has, been suggested by the committee in chaFge that rehearsals be held Spring evenings on the ·g:y-m steps, where the con- test will ta.k:e place~ and in order to develop the \arbrstic merit\ it will be advisable to procure iC ompeten<t coaches, either mem hers of the classes or outside talent. The ob~,ect of the singing contest insti- tuted this year is to provide a higher class of organ,ized entertainment for Alumni Night and. also encourage singing in the student bo.dy. The old days {)·f singing on the Terrace Wall are long since days of the past, and although several movements have been started in previous years to rejuve- nate the custom, sufficient enthusiasm has not been forthcoming. With the passing of this custom lt·as been lost one of our oldest an.<l best tra<litions, which developed spirit and love for our Alma Mater, to- gether, incidentalty-, with better mass. sing- ing, and it is hoped that the singing contest and the rehearsa 1 1 s will be an incentive to the estaD]ishment of a new custom of sing- ing on th.·e gym steps. Garry-1 wonder why Queen Victoria's reign made such a. big smoke ·in England. Scrubs-0, didn't she have Prince Albert to back :}ler? AM.QNG THE FRATERNITIES. Delta Upsilon entertained a few guests at dinner before fh e .Alma Gluck concert. .The chapters of Delta Upsilon of Union, Hamilton, Colgate and Syracuse held a joint banquet at the H.otel Utica Saturday even- ing, March 28th. 'the affair proved a great success. Beta Theta Pi ~ave a dance at the chap- ter house Saturdr evening, Mrch 28th. The patronesses were Mrs. Charles A. Richmond Mrs. H. G. McKean, Mrs. H. F. Dewey, Mrs. L. C. Smith a.nd Mrs. H. E. Starbuck.

THE CON·CORDIE.NSIS 17 REMARKS FROM THE MANAGER. The 1914 basketball season was extreme- ly successful from the managerial view- point. There was some doubt in the be- ginning concerning the drawing power of games in the new gyn1nasiu1n, but results more than satisfied our highest expecta- tions. The average attendance was over 1,000 people, and at the Williams game the attendance was 1,300. The championship game at the R. P. I. gymnasium wa~ wholly under the Union management and all arrangements were carried out beautifully, over 1,400 people witnessing the game. The out-of-town schedule was carried out as successfully as the home games. We were very fortunate in our traveling, our accommodations on trips being very satis- factory and the treatment received cour .. teous. 'rhe officiating o£ our out-of-town games was good, with one, and possibly two, ex- ceptions. Our home games were very well handled, the best officials in the country being secured. Especially noted among these were Thorpe of Columbia and Deer- ing of Manhattan. These officials occa- sioned many pleasing comments among our basketball friends. Last, but certainly not least, is mentioned the financial outcome of the season. Not- withstanding the very large guarantees given, the high cost of officials, and other incidental expenses, we came out from $450 to $500 ahead on the season. With the same championship team for next season and with the loyal following we have created, basketball next season should he and will be even more of a suc- cess than the very successful season just passed. In closing, I wish to thank the Athletic Board as a whole and Professor Opdyke, Dr. McComber and Fred Dawson in par- tic:tdat- for their invaluable support of the ba.sketball management. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. 'l'he Cosmopolitan Club will meet Mon- d.ay, March 31st ,at their rooms in South C0=llege. Doctor Kellogg has been invited to atdldress the club at this meeting. It is i{>latJ.ne<i to have a lecture given in the near ~11tttroe by Mr. Barros, a junior at Syracuse Univ~rsity, whose home is in Brazil. 'fhe il~ctu:re will be illustrated with lantern :&U<ltes depicting scenes in his native land.

18 THE CONCORDIEN.SlS, A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. ED['TOR-IN -CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, 'IS, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, 'IS, 3 Regent Street ATH1ETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, 'IS, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, 'IS, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, r6 N. A. Finch, 'r6 W. C. Loughlin, 'I6 A. M. Jacobs, 'r6 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS J. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, 'r7 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. B;usiness Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: SCHENECTADY ART PRESS 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE CHAMPIONSHIP. Once more we have the pleasure and the right to come forward and, in so many words, announce the fact that Union has a championship team. What does this tnean to us? Does it mean merely that we have won, by physical prowess, the right to place the silver trophy with which we are re- warded upon its pedestal and cast loving glances upon its brightly-shining surface? Does it mean that luck (that inexplicable thing) has c4anced our way once more and has caused us a mon1ent's joy, which will soon pass away, its cause forgotten and its effect lost? Let such thoughts as these be farthest from our minds I .. rhe fact that we h~ld the title of Cham- pions of the Northeastern Intercollegiate Basketalbl League m,eans that in \Union there is strength\-strength of mind, strength of detennina:tion, of spirit, of love for our Ahna Mater. ]t means that we have m•en who have been well schooled in the kind ~f fight that wins and that they have learned their lesson well. The fact that our team won the championship is and shout~ be a matter of personal pride to each and every one of us who helped in some degree, large or smaU, to make the season a success, and that includes every true and loyal son of old Union, from the ablest man ()TI our team, fignting with all of his muscle and mind for victory, on down the line t~ the weakest-v()iced freshman on the bleachers doing his best to show his appre- ciatio11 of every effort of his college. It is a thing to be remerr11Jered through years, through ages, as something in our lives whicb gave us hope and vim with which to conquer, and a spirit of loyalty toward a worthy cause, as well as a feeling of deeper affectlon and appreciation for those things which. we should love and honor. It is not our purpose to review the sea- son in these, O·ttr editorial columns, for we have left such things as reviews to those who are more competent along those spe- cific lines, but it is s1rnply our wish to ex.: press herein our appreciation, which means the appreciation of every Union man, of the wel1-f()ught battles and the well-earned vic- tories which have brought home to us the laur€1s with which we crown our college and its worthy athletic representatives Champions. ' \'

~HE CONCORDIENtSIS 19 ;QUR DESIRE. In offering to our readers this, our initial issue of the Concordiensis, we are attempt- ing to follow out, for the most part, the plans which our worthy predecessors have handed down to us. Naturally, we fall short in our attempts just at present, but since with their plans the editors who have just left us have also transferred to our hands a certain number of high ideals which we in tend to adopt as our own, there is hope that our efforts in the future may tend toward the perfection which would make our publication as popular among our friends and supporters and as interest- ing to all of our readers as it was under the guidance of the board of editors which has recently ceased to exist as such. They have placed a trust in us which we hope to prove worthy of by accepting with deter- mination our our newly-acquired responsi- bilities and by carrying through, to the best of our ability, the which they have exellent innovations introduced. We will strive throughout our regular regime to always prove worthy of this trust by fur- thering the work which our predecessors have begun for us, and which they have left in our hands confident that we would not lay it aside for less worthy motives. While we are· thus striving for better things, we hope that our fellow students will co-operate with us, so that our strength will not be put forth in vain. We hope that they will feel free to express their sen- timents in the columns of the Concordiensis and that we will often be favored with lite- rary contributions from those who are not m em hers of the board. During the past year the idea that the i''Concordy\ is the property of a few men who take active part in its publication has -gradually worn off and the danger of this sentiment creeping back into the minds of the students does not seem imminent. We wish to put forth the sentin1ent of the stu- dent body in our columns, and this we hope to succeed in doing, provided the student body does not hesitate in letting us know just what its ideas are. Any so-called college activity is the prop- erty of each and every Union man, and its success or failure should be his personal pride or discomfiture, as the case may be. 1 ro some of these activities we are more able to lend our services than to others. A man may be a good athlete and yet may not qualify for a position on one of the musical clubs; he may be a good business manager and still not be able to make a place on one of the teams. But every man in college has the ability to express his thoughts, and these should reach the eyes of others through the columns of our pub- lication. If there is anything which you .don't like, tell us so ; if there's something else which pleases you quite well, let us :hear that, too. Co-operate with us so that our paper may be that which a college .publication should be-the voice of the col- lege as a whole. In return for this co-operation and sup- port, which we feel confident will be ours now that we have asked for it, we promise to deal in all sincerity with all problems which may come before us and, in every case, to do that which our none too superior judgment points out to us as being the method by vvhich we may accomplish the most for Union.

20 THE CONCORDIEN.SIS CLASS 1917 CHAMPIONS

T~HE CONCORDIENSIS 21 CLASS BASKETBALL. Freshmen Supe~rior to Other Classes in. This Line of Sport. ·The 1917 basketball· team, by consiS'tent work throughout the interclass season, won the right to hold the William .R. Joseph trophy for one year. The freshmen are to be congratulated upon the excellent show- ing which •they made and' upon the interest which they kept alive throughout the sea- son and which enabled them to go through their six battles without the loss of one. \'Joe\ Haubner led the champions until he began reporting to the varsity to become one of the fastest forwards iq the North- eastern Intercollegiate BasketbaJl League, \vhen he turned over his position to Good- man, who filled the place most creditably. Other men who were taken from the class teams and placed on the varsity squad are : Byron, '15; Scoby, '16, and Roof, '17. The sophomore tearri, with Jackson as captain, finished second in the interclass league, winning half of their games and giving their opponents 'in each one of the three which they lost a good run for the victory. Third on the list comes the 1914 quintet, whose record differs from that of the sopho- more team by one game, which might weU be blamed on the juniors. Captain Baker deserves honorable mention for the work which he did with his class team. The juniors, under the leadership of \Hank\ Faust, avoided being whitewashed, but failed to come up to the average of the seniors and so were forced by their superior rivals to hold down the lower end of the slate. The season, as a whole, accon1plished a great deal in the line of increasing the in- tensity of class spirit and giving it some definite point around which to rally, and the hard-fought games served well to de- velop some of the men for varsity material. If the freshmen had not been quite so dili- gent by about one game, and if the juniors had been able to ring up one more victory on -their register, the season might have proved a little more interesting from the outsiders' point of view, but as it stands, the games were almost aJI close score con- tests, with just a littl:e luck one way or the other as a balance, and so from that stand- point we may regard the season as one which fully deserv,es the enthusiasm which was given it. Standing of the Classes .. W. L. 1917 ........ 0 ••••••••• 0 - • 6 0 19'16 ..................... 3 3 1914 ..................... 2 4 191 s. . .................... t 5 Total of Points During Season. Pet. 1000 500 333 166 1917 .................................. 147 1914 ············~····················115 1916 ................. ' . . .. . . . ......... 102 1915 ........... ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Prof. John I. Bennett was the guest of honor at the Annual dinner of the Union Alumni of Elmira and vicinity at the City Club in Elmira on Saturday, March 21. Twenty-two alumni gathered together to hear Prof. Bennett's report of affairs at Union, to exchange reminiscences, and to discuss plans for sending sub-freshmen to Union. NORTHFIELD STUDENT CONFER- ENCE. Did you ever see a team of Chinese stu- dents play baseball? Well,. then you should go io the Northfield Student Conference. You may even catch yourself playing on the \varsity\ team there against Wesleyan or Brown or some other good team. All the afternoons of the conference are left open for outdoor recreation, and different forms of athletic contests are regularly

22 THE CON:CO.RDIEN·SIS scheduled. The ath:letic committee arranges for a series of basebaH games between teams representing the colleges attending the con- ference so that each delegation tnay play at least one game during the week, two or three games being played each afternoon. But if you are not so interested in baseball, you may choose to enter the tennis contests which are held every afternoon, many \doubles'' and \singles\ being held at the same time in the various courts. Then on one of the afternoons there is the Inter- collegiate track meet. But if your tastes do not turn to regular athletic contests you may go swiming or take a long hike in the beautiful Berkshires, or you may choose the afternoon having a quiet talk with one of the many famous speakers of the con- ference. Rut that represents only one part of the conference. You may enroll in some of the dozen real live Mission Study courses which are held at 8 :40 to 9 :30 each morning. Everybody always agrees that the Bible Study courses are well worth time and at- tention; these come at 9:35 to 10:25. Then there is an intermission of an hour, during which time you may wander around the grounds and eat peanuts or engage in some other pleasurable occupation. At 11 :30 a platform meeting, lasting one hour, is held in the auditori~m, when some one of the big conference speakers will talk. By the way, the speakers for this summer's con- ference will include John R. Mott, Henry Sloane Coffin, C. R. Hurrey, E. T. Colton, G. Campbell White,· T. Richard Glover of England and Robert E. Speer. The next meeting is held at seven o'clock in the even- ing when the delegates gather around uRound Top\ for an open air service, and no one who has ever attended one of these meetings ever fails to appreciate the beau- tiful view of the uplifting inspiration, which is characteristic of every one o£ these meet- ings. Another platform meeting is held at eight o'clock. Northfield affords a splendid oppor- tunity for a good ten-day vacation, and yet it is in no sense a period of loafing or tedious monotony, so characteristic of many vaca- tions. You have an opportunity for recrea- tion, reading, spiritual inspiration, and in addition to this you have the opportunity of making iasting friendships with many of the finest men from the colleges of this section of the United States and Canada, I might say of the world (I have a photo- graph, among those taken at the conference two summers ago, of a group wherein are twelve nations represented). The expenses are not excessive, about seventeen dollars covering the necessaries- carfare, board and roon1. The Y. M. C. A. pays the registration fee. Think it over and register with the Association to join the Union delegation at the Northfield Con- ference this year-June 19-28. C. T. Male. B·LACK CAT CLUB. The next regular meeting of the Black Cat Club will take place Friday, April 4th, at Goodman's. Officers for the spring term \lvill be elected and it is expected that the election of freshmen will occur at this meet~ . 1ng. ASK \HOFFY.\ A sheet of paper is an ink-lined plane. An inclined plane is a slow pup. A slow pup is a 1azy dog. Therefore, a sheet of paper is a lazy dog. CARLSON PICKS TEAM . Three Union Men Placed on \All-North .. eastern'\ Five. Coach Carlson of vVesleyan, after mak- ing a careful study of the season, has picked an u All-Northeastern\ team, upon which he c c t b • 1 ( ' c: ... ' 1 i l 1 I 1 1

THE CONCORDIENS~IS 23 places three Union men, Eaton of Wesle ... yan and Hodge of Williams taking the two forward positions. Mr. Carlson states that he did not hesitate wheri he chose Hough- ton and D. Beaver as guards, but that the center position was subject to very keen competition. Nevertheless, he assigned the position to Woods in consideration of his all-around work. In review, Mr. Carlson says: \In picking this 'All-Northeastern' League team [ have chosen one man from W esle · yan, one from Williams and three from Union. Union is without doubt the best team in the league, but was very fortunate in winning from Williams, 11 to 10, with- out throwing a field goal, and also in that Wesleyan lost an easy game to Colgate, which should have settled the champion- ship. But as an all-round team it is the best in the league, and next year, as every man will be back, it should have another cham- . h. \ ptons 1p team. Carlson's team as it would line up is as follows: Right forward, Eaton of Wesleyan; left forward, Hodge of Williams ; center, Woods of Union; right guard, Houghton o£ Union; left guard, D. Beaver of Union. GOOD FOR FIVE HUNDRED. A certain freshman, who, in his own opinion, is exceedingly well developed in the vocal art, dreamed one night last week that he died and, by chance, went to the Good Abiding Place. At once he suggested h · · f h · ''S . t P t \ t e organ1zat1on o a c 01r. a1n e er, he said \I'd like to have 500 sopranos, 500 ' tenors and 500 contraltos.\ \But who'll sing bass?\ inquired the worthy saint. \Why I'll d·o that myself,\ replied the Hfrosh.\ CHAMPION TEAM HONORED. I Alumni and Students Gather and Pay Tribute. The basketball dinner given under the auspices of the Press Club Wednesday evening, March 25th, in the new gym, was a big success. A large number of alumni fro1n Schenectady and the near vicinity were there and helped to make the occa- sion a stirring tribute to the champion team, and also to put across a number of welcome talks concerning our Alma Mater. Toastmaster J 0hnny Bennett rose to the auspiciousness of the occasion and worked out his list of speakers in mid-season forme Johnny, was, in fact, in the pink of condi- tion. President Richmond was the first speaker. His was a very stirring address, concerning not merely the success of the team, but devoted in great part to an ex- position of Union's advance in the last ten years-more than one hundred per cent, dearly beloved-and to a rousing forecast as to Union's future increased prosperity. The next speaker was the Ron. Glowacki R. Parker, '03, whose vein followed that of President Richmond's. The note of the evening, as stated by Judge Parker, was \New Union,\ in no way to depart from the traditions and customs of Old Union, but rather to further and improve them. He and \Prexy\ both received ovations. Dr. Bennett next introduced Charley Waldron. The preceding speeches had laid the foundation for the evening's subject, and Charley took advantage of the occa- sion to make some strong remarks on class organization, which were much appreciated. \How and why to help Union.\ This was in substance the purport of Mr. Waldron's speech. The new gym, by no means for- gotten by Dr. Richtnond or Judge Parker, was also the piece de resistance of Charley~s feast of soul.

24 THE CON·CORDIENSlS .. The toastmaster then introduced Hubert C. Mandev-i:Lle, '88, who had 'Come all the way from sttnny Elmira to further the cause, and further it he did. Fred Dawson and Doctor McComber sustained the high level of t:h~ .evening's speeches with eulo- gies of the team and of the backing from the student body which the team received. HJake\ Beaver and \Dutch\ Naumann brought us n.earer to earth with respectively a resume ()l the past season and a prophesy for the C()tning one. \Cy\ Elmor.e ·and \Steve\ S.tory spoke on organizing a cam- paign to bring men to Union through fra- ternity and neutral groups. All the speeches were to the point, in- teresting and inspiring. Of the dinner may DR. RrCHMOND GOES S·OUTH. President Richmond left Friday night for a southern trip. His first stop was at W ashingt()tl,. where he intended preaching two sermons ()n Sunday, but, being ill, was unable to do so. On Monday, however he was able t() attend the Union College Alutnni Association dinner as planned. From Washington he will go to Thomas- ville Georgiat, where he and Mrs. Richmond will be the guests of Howard Melville Hanna. On A pd.l i 4-, Dr. Richmond will be speak- er at Illion Board of Trade dinner. be said nothing but praise. The large table~ extending in the shape of a · U entirely around the gym floor, was completely filled. The menu was good and distinctly a la basketball, as follows : Beave.r Tail Soup \Peck\ Les Scoby Olives Rosbif au Houghton \Frosh\ Girling Peas Beaver \Beats\ Creme de \Teed\ Potatoes \Haubner\opolitan Ice Cream Cafe Roo£ Fair One-Ha.ve you ever read Romeo and Juliet? Bence-Er-er-oh, yes; I've read Ro- meo. Y. M. C. A. NQT·ES. Dr. J. J. Ross, General Secretary of the Y. M C. A. at Syracuse University, will speak at the vesper service next Sunday. The topic on which he will talk will prob ... ably be \Alcoholism.\ On Sunday, April 19th, Dr. F. N. Seerley of the Springfield Association Training College will speak on \Social Purity.\ Dr. Seerley is a noted lecturer and is well-versed on the subject. He will spend Saturday and Sunday here. i j \ I 'I i < ·I ~ 1 ., I i ' ; { { ·' l i l i l I J 1 .! J 1 ·~ ~ ~ ,:~ ~ ,j d 't't . t b tE rE li:: . 111 g: n: v: \' aj ti n~ d v: g: w vv eJ tE a b: v~ 01 tl d . tr . tr fc tl (): d rr n

i j \ I 'I i < ·I . ~ 1 ., ' ~ i ' ' ? THE C·ONCORDIENSIS 2'5 A SUCCESSFUL SEASON. There are many factors necessary to pro- duce a successful season. Among them are tbe support of the faculty and the student body, a good coach and ·a good cou.rt. The team this year received all these necessary requisites. To begin with, the faculty gave their un- .Umited support, as shown by the grant- ing of permission to play the second B. P. T. game, the postponed Colgate game, and fi- nally the championship game with Wesle- yan. These instances well represent the attitude of the faculty toward student ac- tivities. That the student body supported the team needs no other comment except to mention the hard-working scrub which opposed the varsity every practice and played a better game than some of our opponents; and it was the consistent and hard-playing scrub which helped to develop the team to a large extent. But the greatest factor in developing the team was the coach, Fred Dawson. And as a good workman needs good tools, so a basketball coach needs a good court to de- velop a team. This court was supplied by our new gym, and the team's record shows that we had a coach who knew how to use this court. .That we were coached accord- in g to the rules is shown by the fact that in every game our opponents made more fouls than we did. And so what success the team has had this year has been due to the co-ordination nf the entire college-the faculty, the stu- dents and the coach. J. J. Beaver. MUSICAL CLUBS. Before a large and appreciative audience that filled the hall of the Chamber of Com- merce in Cohoes Wednesday evening, the musical clubs presented one of the best con- certs of the year. There was a good rep- resentation of the club there, and everything had been done to make it nice for the1n. The concert was given under the auspices of the Masonic Lodge. This concert was the last of the year, it being a positive fact now that there will be no Easter trip this year. Probably the Mandolin Club will give a concert in Al- bany on April 16th, bui it is not as yet assured. SECOND TEAM. Although the second team has not had a regular schedule, nevertheless they have shown great work in their games during practice against the varsity. One of the factors that made Union's champion team was the hard practice work which they gave the varsity. :According to Fred Davvson, the seconds made their betters \dig\ at times. In all the second played three games be- fore the spectators on the bleachers in the new gym. The first game was with Al- bany Law School, when they played a whirlwind game, which brought defeat to the Albany department by the score of 39- 13. During the whole game one could easily see the clean-cut form of the varsity. The next game was during Junior Week, against the varsity, which was in prime form for the quintet from Hamilton. The varsity easily defeated the seconds by a score of 59-4, but the seconds' digging dur- ing the whole game must be admired. Beore the R'l P. I.-Varsity game, the sec- onds were defeated by the R. P. I. frestnben to the tune of 25-13. With a practically new team and against a team which has worked together all season, the seconds put up a plucky fight. The two means of vic- tory for the Troy freshtneen were their ex- cellence in passwork and accuracy in shoot- ing fouls. For the seconds much credit has to go to Scoby, who, in the R. P. I.

26 THE C 1 0NCORDIENSTS freshmen game, made every point but one. The other was made by Goodman, who ·was captain of the freshtn.en team. The summary of the games is as follows: Opp. Albany Law .............. 13 Varsity .................... 59 R. P. I. Freshn1en ......... 25 Totals .................. 97 Seconds. 39 4 13 56 HOUGHTON'TO LEAD VARSITY IN'lS At a meeting of the \U.\ and \A. U. A.\ men of the basketball squad Tuesday even- ing, Ernest B. Houghton, '15, of Schenec- tady, was unanimously elected as the captain of next year's team. \Ernie\ played one sea- son on the local high school tea1n before entering college and made his \U\ in the season of his freshman year. During the past two seasons he has done some wonderful work on the court, and his record this year shows that he is as good an all-around player as there is in the league. Not only does \Ernie's\ record hold the eyes of the followers of the league, but it has attracted many from the outside. Sev- eral coaches have had him down for their all-star teams, and Coach Carlson of Wes- leyan picked him as a guard on his All- N ortheasteren team of this year, while the New York Press in a recent article picked hitn for the All-Eastern team. We most assuredly believe these honors are due hiln, and one only has to glance at his record of the past season to see what he has done in comparison to those who played against him. This season he scored 149 points, 79 of which were free throws from fouls, and the re1naining 72 were tal- lied from 36 field baskets to his opponents' 6. Houghton has won great admiration for hitnself in the eyes of all local fans who have watched him play throughout the sea- son. He has been consistent, tireless, clean and fast on the court, and a most dangerous player to cope with as a guard. He has played an unselfish game, work~ ing with the team as only one can work to bring success, and using every opportunity to make good his ,chances to cage the ball from the field. His feature is the accurate shooting he has done from the foul line, and it was this that won for us the Wil- liams game and kept us in the race for the pennant with Wesleyan. In addition to being a basketball player, Houghton is a player on the varsity base- ball team and is out for his old position, on first base, this year. All of this year's men will be back again next year, and \Ernie's\ team has certainly a good chance to win the pennant again, at least we wish him luck and congratulate hiln upon the achievements of his basketball career. Houghton is a member of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity. HOUGHTON ALL-EASTERN GUARD. The New York Press recently picked the first all-eastern basketball five of the sea- son. Houghton holds the position of right guard on this tea1n. The others are: Lun .. den (Cornell), left forward; Southwick (C. C. N.Y., right forward; Halstead (Cornell), center, and Haye (Williams), left guard. Haubner was also mentioned in the list of second best for\vards. In making this selection, Daniel says: \At the guards Benson of Columbia and Bloom of Pennsylvania must give way t{) Hay of Williams and Houghton of Union, as the outsiders have played a stronger game and both· are better guards than the big league representatives.\ It does seem good to at least see the merits of our men recognized and their superiority over some of the more widely·· advertised colleges admitted. . ..

THE CON·CORDIENSIS Tuxedo ·the Most · Enjoyable and the Most Healthful Smoke T ~E most enjoyable smoke is a ptp·e. But many men deny them- selves this pleasure because they have had unhappy experiences with pipe tobaccos. Likely you have paid 35 cents to SO cents for a tin of \fancy mix- ture,\ and it burned your mouth or throat, or was unpleasantly strong. Too bad-but you got the wrong tobacco. The hundreds of thou- sands of men who have tried The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette have found the answer to their smoke problems. Tuxedo is the mildest tobacco made. It cannot bite the tongue or dry the throat. ~, You can't get any better tobacco because nothing better grows than the mellow, perfectly aged Burley leaf used in Tuxedo. S.AM BERNARD ))Ot)lllar musical ~comedy star .. A ti'n of Tuxedo i~ my· constaJJl companion. l ii/te : · it especidllJ) becau:se ~it ,!Jtls . • nevergii)en me a bit of l.hxo4t : .. trouble. The amoothe.$t : smoke e~er •• , ·~~· .. . ' RICHARD CARLE Star of'\Mary's Lamb.'\ ••The Sprin~ Chicken,\ et-c •. uTuredo i& my iJea r>{, w/,at. a good 3moke 1houiJ he. rrrr for it- alWaJ)J. '' ' ~~< (!''!:!.'- t§If you try Tuxedo for a month and cut out other smokes, you will not only have had the best month of ~~ smoking you ~ave ever had in Yt?Ur life, bufyou will have made a mighty big saving in your pocket money!! YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE CLJF'l'ON CRAWFORD Convenient pouch, 5 Famous green tin, 10 well-known Comedian, inner w lined with C with gold lettering. · C of \Quaker Girl'' fame moisLure-proof paper ·· · cu\ed to fit.poc::ket · \'Tuxerlo is my co-:star. In Glass Humidors, SOc and 90c 1 attribute a good deal of • my :succe3s to it, hecau8« it FREE Send us 2 cents tn stamps for post- mak.es ITl!J nerves hehtl ve age and we wi11 mail you a souvenir And as for voice cullurei • • . tin of TUXEDO tobac;co to any TrJJ Tllrcdo.;, p01n11n the Umted States. Address . • THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY .~ ~-~ Room 1209 111 Fifth Avenue New York 1209

l\HE C.QN·CORDIEN8IS Jl'htre RfJerybod~ Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at ...... BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Schen ectlldy's (;reatest Sters SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Cor:rect Dancing .b&Iso the new dances Prof. KilgaUea's Private Dancing Classes Further information see Hand Book page 52 · Yate's B·oat House The lar:g~s;t and best equipped in tlle state. Excellent Dancing Ha:Ll, which can be rented for Pri- ate Parti·es only, in connection with house - - • • - • 29 Front Street Both Phones Fine Fllr11iture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 2 60L262 State Street. · We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ..... 0 ••• Clothing · · - Furnishings - - - Hats W ell,s & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Twv..:Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. :Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three less()ns. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. Whelden, Mana 8 er Arcade Hall, N~ar N.Y. C. Depot 'Phon.e 2723-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONC()B.DY' ''

THE CONCORDIENSIS PUB:LIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Makers of Caps, GoW'ns and Hoods 1 o the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men 1878 E. C. HARTLEY 1914 Dealer in Fine Groceries and Provisions Special Prices made for goods in quantities to College Fraternity Houses. 601~603 UNION STREET TELEPHONE :11. ll. W4tar1t DELICATESS'EN \Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'PHONE 298-W Higgins' 722 EASTERN AVE. ( Drawing Inks :1 Eternal Writinl! Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilage -{ Photo Mounter Paste I Drawing Board Paste Liquid Paste l Office Paste - Vegetable Glues, etc. ARE TilE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. ,y Visthn~ TELEPHoNE. Car'ds 26 ' 5 w WeJd,n~ Stahonery 13ustne s Cards-LeherHeads Class Pins -Mono~rams Crests. Coats of Ar~s etc . .DESIGNEf\S I:NGf\AVE.J\S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDlEN.SIS SAUER BROTHERS Successors to Schenectady Book Bindery and Prin:ting Company Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems.. Special Rufed Biank Books Made to Order .. 316 State Street-:P:hone 2799-W. ~special Rates 1ll Students K E ; E L E. R ' s GSchenectaoy's Leading Resta~Tant LENN'S ----EUROPEAN---- ~HOTEL AND RESTAURA!NT 422 STATE ST~EEI' LENS GRfNDING A SPECIAL.'fY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway; and Maiden Lane llbany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and G1asses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies, Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Ke~ler, Prop. Annex, 5.07-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trllst Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With ·Over . Ioo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor .. State and Ceatre St. C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B .. HAGADO,RN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisl.er Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, .Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency •. 509 State St., lll11minating Co. Bldg. Ph1111e. 21.08-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate th~ gteat dif~ ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in S<:benec- tady by patronizing W. c:HAS. EGE.R Stare 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhou•e 14()8 State St. Phone 1543-J llutnu N atinualiCttttk ~tQttttrtaily_ N. I· Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU S..AW IT IN THE '' CONCORDY ...

<' .f j 1 I ' ! .} l l .l ., THE CONCORDIENSTS 949 .. Dim~e Mess·enger Service·- 949 Messengers furnishe-d for Delivery of Parcels, Notes, 1nvitations, Circulars and Errands 438 STATE STREET, oppos~i1te Jay St. TELEPHONE 949 THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinller and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracll&e, N.Y. FIRE ROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL ' ,. ' A. R. Zita' s Orchestra FURN.ITURE W4t f~isnn AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUL'E, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6 '07 'o8 '09 '10 '1 I '12 and 1913 ' ' ' , ' ' Best Da nee Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 167 H -~· S Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ICe an es., . · am1 ton t., any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en~ gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son u8 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOM:E .. MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY I 54 Jay Street, ''On your way to the flost Officeu PATRONLZE YOUR PA.PlilR'S PATRONlZERS

T·HE CON:CORDIENSIS ' . . .. ····-··· ... Warmth without weight outer coats. Now is the time fellows .~ ·--~ · · · ·' $25.00 to $75.00 J. ~- HJLLMAN Ito • Th~ Sl~~on Book Co. 1. ... .. ,. ~ . ~· 104 JAY STREET, ·Gleason Building . . ' 1 ' • ' ''-On your way to the P~st Office\ I . SCHENECTADY'S .... . '· ' . . LEADING FLOWER SHOP ~'THE STUDENTS~ •• \'l • FLORTST', Telephone 3140 ! \ . ~ ! \.,: \ t ( ~ 110 Lafayette St. • I 735 State Street .. II ' ~\ • ' I ' 617 State Street ' ·~~ ,· • The Students~ Problem Solv,ed . . You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn· ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC tOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC . COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready py the time you are~· dressed. S~henecta~y Illuminating Co. . 'l ~ ;. . ..... f' t..-\1 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN . . Only Best Work Done • • t~ :. \1 ~ 1 \. J • ~ tl ... BARBOUR :·-·:·:::.AND ·--- ::. MANICURE S. ~· RitChie, 44Q Sta~e St. • 1 ,, l • ' ,. -,>'. ~·· t ~ , • ~ and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ?QLJ..~Jl BRQS. CO., Ip~. . Largest de.alers in Sanitary Milk in' the City of Schenectady. t. OFFICE~ a:~cl\ PLANT, ·742 STATE ·stREET : ~ . ' I'NSPECTION ALWAYS~INVITED .. ~ ·. ·· ; i• TELEPHONB L -- - .. --- •.••. --· ...• ·-- .••. --·---·· ........ ·-· SAY YOU SAW IT IN -THE .:\.CON~OROY ..... ..

THE CO'NCORDIENSIS ·- - ..... \'-·-- --~- ..... ~ ... -...~ ...... __ ,.., . '\ CHAS. H~ TURNER > • Sporting GoodS } t. '• Albany, N. Y: MOE DEWIL'DE~ ~ llatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Coods ., . 1!tnss~ t4t lttrhtf 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William j. Reinhart McClure·& COW/~s . . . ~ . Designer and Maker_ of . ~ MEN'S_ CLOTHES Pian~s and Play~r PiaQos~. Vjctor .Talking Macbinejs and Records. . Five exclu- • , 'II ~ ) sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. .... f t' . 'l,_ 'I J ,. • 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y.. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany~_f.[. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ . . ... M orr~s Drug CO. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. Alhan:1 . . . t' \ t ~ , .If \ ~~· • 2nd SHIRTS 50c .. Agency for Whitman's • >I /...it, t''; ,. , \t 112 No. Pearl St. • ~ • .., l uour Business is Growint\ 'e' I •_,;t ,~~~ ~ \ ,. • o- 'f~ DANKER Reljable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS .. _.1\lbany 1 . ~0 and 42 Maide• La•e A lha,,, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA'.rRONIZERS

'. PARSON!S' ORCH:E·STRA Music F urnish,ed for all Occasions Telephone 2:13l-J The Manhattan C'o. 142 STATE STR'EET · A complete depart·ment food store The best in everytlling for the table at the lowest 310 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. PAJ.NTS. OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A ••sQUARE DEAL'' for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee !each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give • satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. cash prices Quick - ActiVe - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company .Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters A G S U .ldt• & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • pa . ng lOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalo.~ue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES Cigars lee Cream Soda S t. Regis Pharmacu, 200 Unioll st. The Best Made Shoes in· the World J They wear longer-th.ey cost less. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compoun<led Toilet Articles ENDICOTT - JOHNSO.N and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU S.A W IT lN THE .. CONCORDY ••

WIJt JJ;amptnu Albany THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk .. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts.. Our prices are righ~t-our goods are right-and ou.r right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers.. If you are not already acquainted with us and ·aur goods, please consider this a personal invi .. tation to call and be conv,inced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N .. y .. 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ------------------=-----~-----------------------~- ESTABLISHED 1850 JEWEL·ERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEOALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N~ Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

.. .. .. ~ Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, .and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ '!'e think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The Colle&ae Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady Art Press I

. UNiON COLLEGE LUStlnrtf~ THE PVBLI.SHED·WEEKL Y BY· THE STVDENTS· OF· VNIOW- COLLEGE Vol. XXXVII The man who is honest with himself will keep his accounts with himself on a basis of un- comprising truth ; he will make his practice conform to his pro- fession; he will face steadily and frankly the cash value of his character. -The Outlook. ;~ \-·- r • ~- .. - .... :-- .. APR'.IL 9, 1914 No.20

:: I ~ ; ! t ' ' ., ' ;• ., ,;( ,'! r •'' ' ij : ':· II ·'1,, ' , l ; ' ! 'I 1 ; 1,. I ! n .' J; :I' . i r '\i ~;: ', j.: . I' ···~I UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ~ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION, COLLEGE The college offers tbze following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Course• leadlllg t., t:lle degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A...-Creek is required for ad- mission to this course. J?:reuch and German are in- cluded in addition to tile ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. 'They will then be required to study Greek for two ye:ars. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Cour•e leading: .to the dear;ree of Ph. B. LA TIN -SCIENTIFIC Couas E-This course offers Latin without Greek, fo0r which is substituted addi- tional work in modern la..n_guages and science. a. Cour•e lendllli: 1a 1he de.c-ree ot B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics a.n«.i the sciences. 4. Courl!le lending; ltOt th.e degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERINC CouKSE-This course offers the foundation of a bnoad. engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANI'l'ARY ENGINEERING! CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering c-ourse in sttbstituting special work in sanitary engine-ering; for some of the general engineering studies. ELECI'RICAL ENGINE:ERI~G CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad. :and thorough engineering education, with the specLal instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. Coursee leadIng to a-raduate degree•. CouRSE LEADING To o F:GREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of ~ra<iuate study consists of lectures, laboratory pra<tic:e a.nd research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Telephone 2845 for fre:e sample of our spedal Coffee at ZSc tOr Teas at 30c COURSS LEADING '1'0 DEGRES 0!' M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE LEADING 'l'o DEGREE or PH. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y: DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on apQlication to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER_, J, NEW'l'ON Fr~Ro_, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other in formation, address: }OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address. ALFRED B. H VESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except E:xsma\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896- W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smo~e and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY,.

THE OONCORDIENSIS j. In the''Wee Sma' Hours''· When you re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a quiz- When your making up that \condition\- Ot when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is co~d and th~e room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e r i n g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you '11 buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, • New York Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical or Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Shop etw -a-Ml\\f'WW iJ¥~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Yo P.A.TRONIZE YOUR P.A.Pli:R'S PATRONIZERIJ

:' 'J I I ':I l ' .\ i . ·'I i '.' l '' l 'I :·1 ·.·: :· l ; ' ! ;' .•. j' ' -'·' t.~ . l ' I '···.' ll . ' i !,' '' ' I :· ~· ;;i ,, . , , I • ~. 1 f i 1 : 1 'I' .. : '.I' • I 'THE CONCORDIENS·IS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed 'The Sign of th·e Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, E. H. so~uDER Jeweler and OtJtician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and : medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and , headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 No. Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, - :- • President T. I. Van ANTWERP, - Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Treas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, • General Counsel Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jlltti!tt f£unr4 Steuben St., lib any, N. Y. K. H. Solaghian Photographs \While You Wait\ Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo - you'll appreciate it later. MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. I.A y YOU SAw IT IN THIJ AC CONCORDY , •

THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., .c()rner Barret Agency for p,ope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow'.s Style To·day in a , Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M.STARKMAN Autllodzed Agent 451 ·state St. Schenectady PRINTING 'THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME ~tqrttfttuhy i\rt Jrras J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State :PLone 1823-J TILLY, The Ba.rber We are the favored among· the College Boys and solicit your trade . \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady RO.SES, ORCHJDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 .. The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and S pedal Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TE,R~ACE TELEPHONE 4258-W S.A Y YOU SAW IT IN THE u CON CORDY ,.

THE CONC:QRDIENSIS F. W. MuUin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin \The House of Fine Clothes':, PROPRI·ETORS BABBITT'S ~nuit & Qlnmpauy Preliminary Display of Spring 1914 Clothes .· Now Ready Clothes which distinguish this ~Store . from all the rest for 100 ESTABLISHED 1840 EN·.GRA VERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper miles around · 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Makes beginning with ROGERS- PEET and ending ~ith the ''Frankel Fifteen''' which we alone can furnish in this C.apitol City Territory $12.50 to $45 BALMACAAN & GLENGA·RRY COATS FOR COLLEGE MEN Is the ap_otlight attraction herre to-day. The- new models now highest in favor, all cravanetted for rain or sunshine wear. $13.50 · to $35 Babbitt & Co. 451 .. 453 Broadway \Albany's Greatest Clothiers'' Albany, N.Y. Do Your Glasses Stay Put? If not, have you tried the \Comfort Mounting?'' Order it for your new glasses or have it attached to your present lenses. Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPJDR'S PA'rRONIZlCRI

THE CON·CORDIENSIS We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee Cluett & Sons ST:EINWAY W·EBER AND Visit 'OUr Victor ~Parlor ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE PIANOLA PIANOS '508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY,N.Y Are You Progressing? • \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Are you ~in need of shoe repairing?: If so, don,t forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the sam~e location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires i!i Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores H 0 L TZ MAN 's LATEST STYLES--MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. AD I..~ER-ROC HESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES ~ French, Shriner & Umer Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn All styles and leathers • HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY \

THE CONCORDIEN51S BASE BALL SUPPLIES Boys are you prepared for the Bas·e Ball Season of 1914? Let us furnish your equipment. We stock only the Best-made by- A .. ·J. REACH CO. We AotJe a Splendid Line of Uniforms. Special Prices in· Club Lots ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO • . .39 and 43 State :Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP :S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UN'ION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which. will stay ey him until he is a Se11icr cam be . effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Ban~ COR. STATE AN;D CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~ 1 ~~RN!! ~ 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street .~~~ ~~~; D. B. pAIGE, Si~ma Phi Houae NEAR BARNEY'S 11909(}78 1199113 Colle~e Representative I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, · Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. \Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Ga~ette Buildi•t ··-~-·~·.,!...••••· . ······~ no aNrW ARROW ~otJCOLLAR Cluett. Pea.bo4y & Co •• Ine!e .Makera IU.Y 'J\OU 8..t.W IT IN THB \CONCORDr •

THE ·CONCORDIENSIS ~ : Quick on the Trigger With a Snap-Shot Eye i : ·T.HE crack trapshooter has to · have steady nerves an~d muscles' ' · absolutely under control- always ready to swing his .gun into place and bring.downhis claypigeon. This means trained, not to th~e ~minute, but to the split-second. We present th·e name:s of some famous crack shots. They like to smoke, but take no chances on a tobacco that might ''throw th.e.m off.'' They use Tuxedo b·ecause it is mild, relaxing, steadying-. strictly pure. • GEORGE W. MAXWELL . leading trapshooter , '~I find complete enjoy- ' nent in Tuxedo. It's a neroe : :.teadier and a surefire, slow- , iJ,_.rning tobacco. \' ~~~.' TOM A. MARSHALL famous c1'ack.shot The Per/eel Tobacco for Pipe ant! Cigarette •' Tuxedo f~bacco is un- questionably ih·e acme of T d . d f . h.. p.er/ection; smo/eing Tuxedo uxe 0 IS rna e 0 only t e rna/ee& life lJetter worth finest, choicest, selected leaves of lroing.\ perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It ,~~~-0,-,~- ~ is made by the original ''Tuxed<> Process\ which removes t~ery trac~ of hz\te and sting and develops all the wonderful mildness, fragrance and flavor of the Burley Leaf in a way that no other brand ~of tobacco has ever successfully imitated. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EV,ERYWHERE Convenient pouch. 5 Famous green tin, ] o inner-lined with C with gold lettering, • C moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket · In Glass Humidora, 5 Oc ancl 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in starnps for postage and we will mail you prepaid a souvenil' · tin of TUXEDO tobacco to .any point in the United States. Address THE AMERICAN TOBACCO C<>MPANY ~<'Jcm 1105 111 Fifth Avenue New Yorlt \' _. FRED GILBERT celebrated trapshooter u The coolest, mo&t fra· grant tobaccfJ to my upe• rience- Tuxedo. Leads In milJne&:J and purity. \\ J;rA_ ~

THE CONCO&DIENSTS BARNEY'S Wher11 ,Every bod, Shop·s Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sche1tectady's l7reatest Star1 SHOE SA·LE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Corre~ct Dancin:g Also the new dances Prof. Kilgallen' s Private Dancing Classes: Further informati()n see Hand Book page 52 Yate's Boat House 'The largest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, w:liich can be rented for Pri- a'te Parties only, in connection with house • - • .. - • 29 Front Street Both Phones Fine Furnit&re at Popular Pricea JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Ann~ounce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for tll e particu- lar man ........ . Clothing - - - F\urnishings - .. · Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons·. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain M;aster of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E .. Wll•w-, M•na~rer Arcade Hal~ Nur N. Y. C. Depot 'Phone 2723·1 SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDt\

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 APRIL 9, 1914 NO. 20 OUTDOOR B·ASEBALL PRACTICE. Squad at Last Enjoys Open-air and Stiff Work. The Alexander Field is not yet in shape, but by using the old grounds Coach Da w- son has succeeded in bringing his healthy squad of pigskin handlers out of the gymna- sium and is giving them some vigorous outdoor work each afternoon. From all reports, \Dutch\ Naumann is well satisfied with his following, both old and new, and, taking into consideration the excellent schedule which has been laid out for them this season, nothing but success can be imagined for the future. Heretofore the pitching staff has usually been a drawback on Garnet nines, but this year this condition seems to be eliminated by the fact that six men are out for the position, and all seem to be making good to some extent, while the majority of them give promise of twirling to perfection. Among these stand prominent Hummer and Jenkins, both of whom made debuts on the Union tea1n last year and showed vast im- provement toward the close of the 1913 season. Both of these men are in ftne shape now and, under the strict coaching which they are receiving at the present time should be able to show excellent form ' by the time their first call to the box comes. But, although the position of delivering battery seems to be strengthened greatly, it does not contain all of the strength which. can be seen on the diamond, for, with the exception of one man, the entire basketball team, all in excellent physical condition, are filling positions on the field and promise to make good in the superlative degree this Spring. Zimmer and Barclay are, of course, with us, too, and several 1917 men are showing up well,. also. Among these, Girling, Rosekrans, Friday, Goodman and Jones stand out prominently. The new field should be in shape very shortly and then these men will all have a chance to show real class. By that time they wiU be in good shape and will be most likely to start the season with a good, wholesome victory to add a stimulus both to their own hopes and to the spirit which is backing them on the sidelines. CONFERENCE OF EASTERN CO~ LEGE NEWSPAPERS. Editors and Managers Meet in New York City. Twenty-one college newspapers sent del- egates to the conference held in New York City, April 4th, for the1 purpose of stimulat- ing interest in journalism throughout the colleges of the East, of setting a premium

II ' !! I ' 12 THB CONCORDIEN5IS upon acade1nic editorship and of encourag- ing those n1en who intend to make letters oi journalisn1 their life work. The asso- ciation is also useful in that it causes mem- bers of the various boards to become per- sonally acquainted, so that they n1ay co- operate in the exchange of information, and thus increase their practical efficiency. At noon the delegates enjoyed luncheon with Dr. Talcott Williams, and then in- spected the Pulitzer School of J ournalistn. After this the conference was called to or- der by the President, Mr. J an1es Bruce, o£ Princeton, and 1natters of importance were discussed. This year a managers' department of the association was set on foot and Albert B. Craig, '15, manager of the Daily Prince- tonian, was chosen chairn1an. Mr. Craig, together with 1\!Ir. Schaffer, manager of the Concordiensis, are the fou,nders of the or- ganization, the former swinging .the dailies in line and the Union student doing mis- sionary work among the weeklies a.nd semi- vveekl ies. This is the first titne in the his- tory of college publications that a man- agers' association was organized, due large- ly to the fact that college papers co1npete for the sam:ej national advertising. ThQ managers in the association have pledged their papers to a policy of sound co-opera- tion and will have a blanket agency in N e-vv York to secure foreign advertising. The business 'students were addressed ·by an advertising expert, and George W. Patter- son, '14, retiring manager of the Yale Daily News, offered circulation suggestions. Per- haps the most important item to be delib- erated was the establishtnent of a University Press in the smaller colleges. In the evening the editors and tnanagers with their guests dined in the oak rootn at the Hotel Martinique. The assembly was addressed by Drs. Talcott Willian1s, Dean of the Pulitzer School tOf Journalistn.; Charles H. Grasty, presideat of the J3.a1timore Sun; Hamilton Hoit, editor of the I11dependent; Don Seitz, manag;e:r of the N~w York Wodd, and RicharcL Douglas, editor of the Michigan Daily. At ibe close of dinner the association elected tl1ese officers for the coming year: President, W. H. KJeitz of The Cornell Sun; vice-president, R. H. Macdonald of The Yale News; secretary, D. Myrick of The Da:ily Prince:tonian; treasurer, L. C. Danie1s.on of the Columbia Spectator. The Michigan Oaily, Syracuse Daily Orange, Colg-ate Madisonensis, Rhode Island State Beaco•lil, V ern1ont Cynic and Vvr esley-an 1\.rgus we~re admitted. The 1nernbers of ihe association are: The Colun1bia Spectator, The Cornell Sun, The Amherst Sun, Tbe Brown Herald, The Co- Hamilton Life~ The Harvard Critnson, The Haverford \!Veeklr, The Hobart Herald, The lr a fayette, Th-e Pennsylvanian, The Princ~tonian, Tllie Union Concordiensis, The \;Villiams R-ecord and The Yale News. The Concordie11sis was represented by H. HeTman Hitcb.cl()ck, Arthur D. Sherman and H. J. Delchan-wps for the editorial staff, and br l\1. P. Schaffer for the business man- agern eni. '•PREXY\ ON A VACATION. President Richrn ond is spending a much- needed and well-e a:rned vacation at Thomas- ville, Georgia~ with l\t1r. Howard l\!Ielville Hanna. Mrs. Ri·cbrnond joined him short- ly after he left. On l\1onday evening, Marcl1. 6~ he attend_ed a dinner of the Wash- ingtotJ. AlLunni Society. Unlike most of his trips, this one is to be purely recrea- tional; nevertheless, we all hope that \PreJ\: '' will en 11st a few Union recruits in Dixie, incidentally. He expects to IJe home on April 11.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 MUSICAL CLUBS CLOSE SEASON. Walter Guest KeUogg, '99, Republican, With the Cohoes soncert the regular sea- of Ogdensburg, was elected Regent of the son of the musical clubs came to a close. University of the State of N,ew York on Taken altogether, th·is proved to be a most Wednesday, March 1 t, at a joint session successful season. A very good schedule of the Senate and Assembly. T'he vortes not cast for him were divided between ex- was played and good audiences were pres- ent at all of the concerts. Governor John A. Dix, Democrat; Profes- The ·Mandolin Club was particularly fine' sor Edward E. Hale, Progressive, and Hon. -admitted by many to hav·e been the best Edward D. Cutler, Democrat. ever produced-and the Glee Club was not Nielvin T. Bender, '00, of Albany, New York State counsel for the New York State far behind. Roger Macmillan, '15, with his · 1 f · Automobile Association, talked on \De- vlolin so os was a great avonte. Coaches Goggin and Mausert deserve tours\ at the \get-together\ dinner of the New York State Road-builders' Association great credit for the high-c1 1 ass productions given. Concerts were given in the follow- at Keeler's Hotel, Albaey, on Thursday ing cities: Amsterdam, Ballston Spa, evening, January 29. Scotia, Cobleskill, Binghamton, Elmira, Many Albany lawyers have endorsed the Freeport, Brooklyn, Chatham, · Hudson candidacy of Lester T. Hubbard, '00, for Falls, Schenectady, Albany and Cohoes. judge of the city court. Joseph G. Fenster, '03, is Deputy Ass,isl- Spike-Under what influence did Cole- ridge write the \Ancient Mariner?\ Ken.-Morphine. ALUMNI NO'l'ES. George Westinghouse, '68, died at his apartment on Central Park West, New York City, on Thursday, J\!larch 12, 1914, in his sixty-eighth year. He was one of the best- known Union alumni. He served in the United States Arn1y and Navy during the Civil War, and was the inventor of the Westinghouse air-brake. Frederick Townsend Martin, '76, o£ New York, died in London on Sunday morning, March 8. He was noted for his charities and one of his books, \The Passing of the Idle Rich.\ On February 24, Governor Glynn nomi- nated Seymour Van Santvoord, '78, of Troy, to the Senate of New York to be member of the Public Ser-vice Commission. The nomination was confirmed. ant District Attorney by appointn1ent of Charles S. Whitman. Hubert M. Mann, '13, has been allowed to do special research work at the Johns Hopkins Medical Schoo 1. PRESS CLUB HOLD BANQUET .. The .official rt:port of Chairman Del- champs of the basketball dinner was given at the last meeting of the club, and a profit of $5.15 was reported. This 1noney is to be given to the gymnasium equipment fund. The annual banquet of the club was held last night at 6:30 at Glenn's. Charles Waldron acted as toastmaster, and cafled upon Dr. Barnes, Dr. Hill, H. Hitchcock, \Stan\ Walworth and the new president for toasts. In the afternoon the election of the offi- cers for next vear was held. On account of ., the earliness that this article goes to print the results could not be given. At this same time all formal reports of this year's officers and co1nmittees were given.

,I I I I; ! . I : i I • l I I, :I I : ' ., 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS '. A CONFESSION. In our Tower Room to- night we are looking back I! over the days of the past. '''You are my confident £riend, Webb. You know that I have kept up with my class in ev·ery way that the ordinary student is expected to do. I have been more or less active in athledcs, although I ba ve attained no giory. I have taken some part in -de- bating, but not as much as I ought to have done. I have been active in most things that interest the average student, but I can- not feel satisfied with myself. \1~~~~~ Our retrospect is one filled 11 with pleasant memories- \When it comes to scholarship I doubt if I am up to the average standing of the class. I have .made some first grades, but many of my reports have shown fourth grades. I'm just \middlin' ,' ~s one would say. I'm a little of everything, and not much of anything. especially as we near the end of our college course. We shall realize more and more with coming years that our college life was our happiest experience; and ever and anon as we fondly reflect on the past, a glorious halo will mark the , years spent at Union. We shall never re- gret having been her chil- dren for the short space of four years. But in spite of the glories of the past it ~s always possible to see wherein we have made mistakes and done things for which we have feelings of regret. Our added ex- perience makes it possible to criticise the past in the light of a higher standard, and if this were not true we could not be quite assured of progress in our life. With this thought in mind we see the truth in the poet's words: \Of all sad words Of tongue or pen, The saddest are- 'It might have been.'\ It is fitting for every student to reflect occasionally on his yesterdays; and perhaps Leslie's confession of his mistakes may be of help to others. Here's his own version of his case: \All this makes me feel that I could have done better if I had tried. [ wish I had given tnore time to some specific line .. Then, perhaps, I could have accomplished some- thing in athletics or debating or scholar· ship; but I have devoted my energies to too many things. In my freshman year I must have lacked ambition and definiteness of purpose. \Had I started out from the beginning to be an honor student-if I had devoted more energy to my studies~! might have had a chance at making the Commen~ement stage; but I never thought of these things till my junior year, and then it seemed too late for any chance. \So to be :frank, my one regret in these four years of blissful life is the conscious- ness that I didn't do my very best. I have done some things well, but I haven't tried to be a 'top-notcher.' \I see that you are taking notes of all that I say, and if you wish yott may pass my experience on to any student in college. I almost wish I were a freshman again, so that I could start over. I'd set up a high aim and stick to it, making ev~ry step count.

THE CON·CORDIENSIS 15 I'd watch for my opportunities to follow out some definite j)llrpose.\ Such is ()ne stud:en t's confession. It has .stimulate.d much fhoughtfulness. Most of us are lacking in purpose. We do not es- tablish a standard .of achievement for our- self and if we fina1ly do so, it is often not early in our college course. Leslie is the all-around student-~the fellow who is up- to-date on r:nost .questions. The world has a place for him; an.d whether as journalist or plain business man, he stands a good chance of living a 11appy and useful life. vVe who are given only ordinary ability cannot be '(;top-note hers'' in com petition with talented fellows, but we can be noble in our efforts to do every task to the best of our ability. We sb.ottld remember that any- thing shari: of this stan~ard brings feelings of regret, and that- · · \N Qt hea'9'en itself U pan the past has power; F()r what bas been has been And I liave had my hour.\ COMMUNICATION. While browsing: around in the college library recently I f-ound a couple of the new books, which were badly marked with pen- cil, probably for the purpose of making a report or in order to emphasize certain paragraphs. While we are talking of \fair play' 'in athletics, 1 think it would be worth while for us to adopt this idea of \fair play\ and cons ide ration for others in our use of the college library. It is not a pleasing sight to one, who has been taught to hav-e respect for books, espe- cially the books .of others, to pick up a book in tlle library and to find line after line underscored a.nd paragraph after para- graph marked witJ:1 pencil or pen. If it is necessary to mark a ook while usibng 1t. do so, but use a soft pencil and erase the marks before returning the book to the library. What will the future ,classes think of their predecessors when they find in the library books that are all marked up? Their opinion of us, I dare say, will be anything but compliln,entary. Another thing, students have a habit of going to the library and taking books with· out properly registering them; this causes no end of trouble to the librarian, and to the students who may need the book in their work. During the past months Union has been favored with a series of 1 ectures on psy- chology by Professor Dewey of Columbia University, who is an international author- ity on such matters. Now there is a large number of underclassmen to whom these lectures wott}d be uninteresting, as they have no knowledge of the subject; this is also true of the engineers, whose work lies along different lines. But there is certainly no excuse for the non-attendance of the seniors and Juniors, who are electing Dr. Hoffman's courses. T'here are several seniors, who are work- ing for honors in Dr. Hoffman's classes; of these studen~s only one has attended all the lectures a.nd one who has attended the majority of them; the rest have been con- spicuous by their absence. Such a condition of affairs shows, it seems to me, that these men are seeking honors, not because of any great interest in the subject. but because they like the idea of having \Honors in Philosophy\ after their na1nes at Com1nencement. In other words, there is a certain class of students in col- lege that is working along the ·line of least resistance; rnen who are trying to get all thev can fron1 Union with the minimum \' am ott n t of effort. In most coli~ges where lectures of this

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS nature are delivered, attendance is required of the students who are majoring in that subject. In as much as we are not com- pelled to attend, I think we should have enough s eH-respect to do so, if only in or- der to show courtesy to the men, whom Dr. Richmond brings here ·at great ex- pense, and to show appreciation of Dr. Richn1ond 's efforts in our behalf. Victor A. Lord, '14. 'TRACK MEN BUSY. Candidates for the track team are now practicing every l\!Ionday, Wednesday and Friday, under the direction of Dr. lVIcCom- ber. Captain Baker, Hughes, Mallen and. Stoller are the only tnetnbers of last year's team left. Several of the freshmen have shown up well so far in. practice. Morrison, Downs and I-Iyatt have done well in the sprints, and Peterson is ,making good at high j u1nping. J an1ieson is a pole vaulter, but he will not be able to get in form till outdoor practice starts. There are several men in the gyn1nasium class, who have not yet gone out for track, who ought to make good material. Captain N'au1nan has 111ade a call fo1· baseba:ll candidates, and any student who has ability along that line should turn in his name. Baseball practice will start in ear- nest just as soon as the snow is off the ground. SOUNDS BETTER. \,\,Then equal suffrage reigns supreme throu 2\hou t our land so1ne of the states ,., \vill probably change their names to con- fonD to the situation. The following are the pro-posed changes. Allie Ba.ma. CaHie Fornia. Della \\ 1 are. IdaHo. Florrie Da. Louisa Anna. Mary Land. Minnie Sota. Mrs. Sippi will probably chaperone the crowd. The faculty at Williams has passed a ruling to the effect that the annual cane rush shall be abolished. It seems that the means used to carry on the contest were not altogether what the faculty liked. ELECTIVES. At college he was diligent, And took advantage, too, Of all his opportunities, Which not all students do. \Elective'' courses filled his tilne; He hardly stopped to sleep- His day he thus divided up In erudition deep; A morning course in tennis first, With several other chaps, And after that a little walk Till luncheon time, perhaps; A little sprint around the track, Then baseball in the spring, And generally a switn before The supper bell would ring; .z-\no1her pipe, and then away To thrun1 the sweet guitar- To \make\ the glee club, as they say, From which all honors are. In autumn, football had its turn; In winter, \gyrn'' instead; ~Then less industrious students slept At night he'd have a \spread.\ Such were tbe \n1inor\ courses that He followed, gleaning pearls- But though pursuing these with vim, His \major'' course was-girls. -Ex. '\ .J

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 DEBATING NEWS. At the tryouts held last week for the New York University debate to be held at New York April 30th, the following men were appointed to represent Union: D. A. Coulter, '15; R. S. Blodgett, '15; A. M. Jacobs, '16; and M .. H. Sternfeid, '16, as alternate. The affirmative of the same question as in the Allison-Foote, Colun1bia and Cornell debates is to be debated by Union, namely: \Resolved that the States should adopt the principle of the minimum wage for women and children employed in stores, shops and factories, by public ser- vice corporations and by the State itself.'' Undoubtedly our team will put up one of the hardest-fought debates of the year, be- cause of the character of the men who are to represent us, and also on account of their knowledge of the subject. ENGLISH CLUB MEETS. A very interesting paper was read by George Wadsworth, '14, at the meeting of the English Club last Friday evening. l\1r. Wadsworth's subject was Bernard Shaw's \Arms and the Man.\ This was in accord- ance with the plan of the club this year; that is, besides having the regular discus- sions to take up a separate modern play at each meeting. After the usual order of business, six new members were elected in- to the clube CLASSICAL CLUB . The initial Spring term meeting of the Classical Club was held Monday evening, March 30th, at Washburn Hall. Very in- teresting papers were read by President Cote and A. M. Jacobs, '16. President Cote took for his subject ''Trimalchio's Dinner,\ and rendered a 1nost pleasing discourse on it. Jacobs dealt with a \Co1nparison Be- tween Ancient and Modern Humor\ in a very significant manner. A most interest- ing program will he followed at the com- ing meeting, which will be held next Mon- day. PREFERRED HIS MIETHOD. He tapped on the back door of a suburban hotne and asked for something to eat. The good housewife responded that she would feed him on the back stoop provided he was willing to earn the meal by cleaning out the gutter. The tramp agreed, and when he had eaten his way through several sand- wiches to a felling of happiness the house- wife came out with a reliable looking hoe. \You needn't have gone to that trouble, tnadam,\ said the weary one, sizing up the farm itnplement. \I never use a hoe in cleaning out a gutter.\ \Never use a hoe!\ said the woman with a wondering expression. \vVhat do you use, then; a shovel?\ \No madam,\ replied the hobo, starting for the back gate, \my method is to pray for rain.\ President Hibben of Princeton who fav- ors purely voluntary chapel, maintains that the nominal worship of the Diety is being misused to arouse sleepy students. If the plan for an honor system at Yale, which was introduced by the Senior Coun,. cil and approved by the faculty, is ratified by a three-fourths vote of the undergrad- uates, the plan will be adopted by the col- lege. There is no student or faculty provision for penalties for violation, but each man is required to sign a pledge after his examination. Through a vote of the student body, the tango, turkey trot and other new da-rces have been barred for the year at the l' ni- versity of Vermont.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary atJ:d News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the ]>()stoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDJTOR-IN -CHIEF. H. ]. Dekhamps, 'rs, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, ·3 ;Reg.ent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15, Psi Upsilon House LI'fERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood :Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, 16 . . N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS ]. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, 'r7 H. R. ~night, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Scllaffer, '14., Business Manager, ~24 Delamont A V,e. · Karl E. Aga.n,. '15, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScH:ENECTADY ART PRESS 2o6 So. Centie Street, Schenectady, N. Y. BACK THEM UP. Wake it up with a long yell for the base- ball team ! Soon the glorious echoes wi 11 be sounding fron1 the new athletic field to fill the air wiih joyous cries of life and hope and victory. \Jake\ Beaver says he got excellent backing from the bleachers throughout tile basketball season. \Dutch'' Naumann says he'd like to have the same. Let us give l1i1n a little better; let us show him that we have even more \stuff\ in us than he has ever dreamed of; let us show our spirit, our loyalty, our love as it has never before been shown. During the pleasant Spring evenings while the rest of us are engaged in more restful pastimes, the Garnet squad will be at hard work on the battle field. They will be gaining strength and skill with which to fight, and will be paying for it measur~e by measure with self-sacrifice and self-de~­ nial. They will be working just like some of them worked during the basketball sea~ son, with hope and confidence and vim and determination-hoping to win glory for their Alma Mater, confident that they win be well-trained for the battles and well- backed in their determination to fight 1o the last, to win in glory or to be defeated in glory, according to the will of fate. They will do their share, never fear, atld the rest is up to us, who should do our share by standing loyally behind our re:p~ resentatives. It is up to us to fig h. t with them, to strive with them, to work with thetn, to hope with them;· it is up to us tD help them,. to strengthen them, to give thern all of the encouragement that we can. It is our place to do all in our power to fur- ther each and every one of their efforts with all the strength that is in us, and to lend them our assistance along whatever lines they may ask it. They are loyal; we are proud of them and of the1r loyalty. Let us be loyal,to(). Let us show them that their work is appre- ciated-not just at the beginning of the season, not when Dame Fortune smiles or1 us throughout a gatne or so, but always .. while there's fight and determination on the diamond. let it not be lacking on tile bleachers.. Back that team!

~HE ·CONCORDIEN1SIS 19 B·OOST. Boost what? Why, there are man-v .,; things we can boost, but about the most important thing just at present is the pla11 for ·making Commencetn,ent a real },ive one this year. In former years we have been literally crowded off of our own ca.mpus by hoards of people, many of whom were not at all interested in Union, bttt were merely thete for the purpose of being amused at our expense. But the fact that the Alexander Field is now in readiness for active work alters these circumstances wonderfuHy and gives, us advantages which we have never realized before. The new athletic field is large enough to accommo- date all of our friends, and is so situated that others rnay not gain an entrance to the grounds. So far the committee has made plans which have a great many features ef ad- vantage and which should work to better effect than any ever attempted before. The singing contest is, indeed, an exceUent in- novation, and, if the classes will begin to get into it at once, its execution should add a wonderful touch to the other forrus of organized amusement which will be carried out on Alumni Night. Throughout the Spring term each class ~'hon ld arrang-e for a place to meet eacr evening and should practice their songs diligently-so diligently that it wiU be in1- possible for the judges to render a d.·ecision .in favor of one of them without serious de- liberation and discussion. It would be a good plan to make Sillirnan Hall steps one 1neeting place, the library steps another, p~thaps t-he steps of the engineering build- ing would make an excellent one, and sure- ly the steps of Gymnasium Alumnoruw would be the best of all. Each man. should hold in mind. the fa~ct that ''practice makes perfect,\ and should make it a point to attend eve~ry rehearsal, in order that his class will not be handicapped in the con- test by having in its ranks men who have learned their songs imperfectly or have failed to work up their enthusiasm to the proper pitch for the occasion. The most serious thing of aU, however, is the n1atter of attendance on the big night itself. Ahunni Night is certain 1y the one night of the year on which Union needs each and e-very loyal son ; it is the auspic- ious occasion of auspicious occa.sions; it is · the night on which we can back each atom of our co11ege spirit with every ounce of \pep\ and every drop of true Un.ion blood in an outward show of ouf\ love and loyalty to our Alma Mater. It is a soul feast in which every one of us should participate with all the life that is in us, with all the spirit that we have or can summon to the front from dormant sources of reserve to help us strive with all of our combined strengths to make the various events suc- cessful. The committee in charge is a most ex- cellent one and the plans which they are putting fot-th are such that they should not only induce every student to stay -.for the event, but should also fill hiln with such enthusiasm that he will begin at once to boost the plans and to give his individual aid and support to them. Come, then, ye da..ss poets and musicians, get an inspiration, write a song, find a tune

20 THE CON:CORDIENSIS or make one, get your class together, ar- range for your place of meeting, see to it that every one of your classmates get around, pttt some \pep''' into them, coax them, tease them, if necessary-swear at then1-bu t get them out by aU means and you can 1nake a real noise on the 9th of June that will show the alumni the real stuff that we have and want them to know about. THE JOn'S AND SORROWS OF THE SECTION GANG. (A C(:)\mmonplace visit to the lab.) \Say Spud, there's something I've been wanting to ask you for quite a while. You told me a:t the first of the basketball season that you were going to play center on the varsity; bow does it happe~ that you played on the cl a~s team ?\ \Mothet' objected.\ \Is sh€ going to let you pitch for the baseball team?\ \I guess so.\ \Can you make it?\ ''Didn't I pitch on the prep. school team there at :home, and wasn't that the best prep. school team on earth? Did I ever say I couLd do anything ::1nd then not make d ?\ goo . . . \W ellr 1 don't know. You said once that you were taking the B. S. course for the fun of it, but that by birth and long practice you were an electrical engineer.\ \Some afternoon I '11 take you over in the lab.\ \\i\lhy not today?\ \Oh it's too darn wet ; the machines don't run well on damp days.\ ''I don'''i care~ Come along; there's noth- ing to do and 1 have to see 'Ma' about an excuse ar1yway. \ \All right, but we won't stay very long, Pete; chuck me a lid.\ The journey to the lab. was made in almost complete silence. ''Say, Spud, who is that young fellow sitting at the table?\ \Oh don't you know him? Why, that's Robert E. Lee; he charges the batteries.\ \Let's talk to George, Spud.\ \Say George, what are you doing with that pail ?\ \Kindiy seat yourself, young ~man, you are causing the vessel to rock to and fro . t d \ 1n a very uns ea y manner. \What did he say, Spud?\ \He said that he has a pail fuU of IR. drops to water the fuse plugs with.\ \Oh is that it?\ Hoot Nubbs approaches R. E. Lee. \Say General, have you seen a stray power loss around anywhere?\ \No how many currents have you picked this afternoon?\ \Oh I don't know; I guess there's enough to kill a Wop.\ \All right, that's fine; but be careful to keep the1n away from the poles.\ \Hello Spud, come on back here and I'll show you something. We're going to have a relay between a rotary convertor and a D. C. generator.\ \What does D. C. mean?\ asked Pete. \D. C.- .. let's see, that means deucedly clever. Now, as I was going to say, the only difference between a rotary convertor and a D. C. generator is that in one you pour the flux in edgewise and in the other sidewise. It all produces the same ~£feet, namely, that of getting you balled up on exam.. Now, these coils over here are mag- nets. Son1e of them are strong enough to draw the top teeth from a cow. Some of thetn can be moved around because they . haven't much itnpedence-the more tm- pedence they have, the harder they are to

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 has such a great impedence that you can't move it, then it becon11es a pennanent mag- net. Do you follow n1e ?\ \Little too deep for me, Hoot. How· .about you, Spud?\ \Oh I understand that very welt\ \There's another very interesting point,\ Hoot continued, \and that's this study of .cycles. We have the bicycle and the tri- cycle and on up to sixty, etc., etc. When you ride one of these cycles you have to pay the conductor, except in the case of the rubber ones, which are non-conducting. Most of them are built on the style of an alternating current transforn1er. Con1e over here and I'll show you how it vvorks.\ Hoot began to do so1nething with a bulb -something which Pete didn't understand, but Spud looked seriously wise and scru- tinized the bulb very closely. \Here Spud,\ said Hoot, \take this re- b f . \ actance orne or a souven1r. Spud took it. It -vvas charged! The journey back to the sections was al- most as silent as the one to the lab. \Spud ventured the diminutive one fi- nally, \vvhat is an alternating current trans·~ former?\ \They ain't no such animal. I and Steinmetz are going to n1ake one, but don't tell anybody-they'll publish it in the \Concordy.'\ Miss ~ferri11, a teacher in a grade school, had trouble \Vith Johnny last week. Johnny had trouble doing his work and the au- thorities finally discovered that his sight was defective. l\-1 iss l\I errill took Johnny and sent him hon1e with a note to his n1other. He gazed at the note in horr<?r, then at the teacher and burst into tears. The note tead: \Johnny has astig-nlat1sm: do not let him return to school until he has been attended to.\ l\liss lVI.errill understood his grief better when she received a note from his 1nother. It read: \I don't know what he had done, but I licked him for it. I can't find it on hin1, and he says he ain \t got it; now you had better lick him and see if you can find it.\ COMMENCEMENT PLANS. General Outline of the P~roposed Festivities. The Comn1ence1nent celebrations will start the Saturday before Com1nencen1ent with a baseball ga1ne. Special efforts will be made to get the al tunni together by this time. At 5 p. n1. on Sunday the custo1nary Vesper service will be held in the garden and so1ne pron1inent alun1nus will be se- cured to speak. In the evening the Bac- calaureate sermon wiil be preached by President Charles A. Richn1ond. On l\Ionday the classclay exercises will be held, in Jackson's garden and class head- quarters will be established. The regular class dinners will be held Monday evening. At the same time there will be an Every- man's dinner at the :\Iohawk Golf Club. Tuesday 1norning at 10 o'clock the re- union classes will meet at St. George's Parish house, n1arch up Union Street, and in at the Payne gate and review in their costun1es on the fran t cam pus by the li- brary. To the class n1aking the best show- ing, costumes and per cent of living alun1ni in line con.siderecl, .will be a warded lthe1 \Valdron Cup. After this will con1e the election of trustees, follovved by the alun1ni luncheon in the \gytn.\ The afternoon en- tertainn1ent will consist of a baseball gan1e. The alumni and undergraduates will sit by classes in special decorated boxes on the bleachers. Following the ga1ne, \Prexy'' wi11 give a reception at his house. Tuesdqy evening ,;vill be celebrated 8S \\!t:il\1i Night\ on Alexander Field. Thi~; wil' t ·~' L.t

22 THE CONCOliDIEN~SIS spectacular affair and one of the biggest events of the week. A rousing, big campus meeting wiU be held, adn1ission being by ticket, so that all the alu1nni, students and others who belong there may be con1fort- able, and not crowded, as was the case last year. The balcony of the \gym\ will be divided up into boxes, with President Richmond in the center and the faculty and trustees in boxes on either ·side of hhn. At 8 p. m. the faculty and students form and march around the track and review before the President for the Waldron Cup. f-Iere a novel and most excellent feature will be added to the pr9gram. Miss Helen Ludlow, sister of FitzHugh Ludlow, '56, who is imn1ortalized among Union men as the author of \Ahna Mater\ and the \Ter- race Song,\ has given $50, which will be awarded, in the form of a cup, as a prize to the class which shall give the best exhibi- tion of class singing. This will be a big stimulus in developing singing here on the \hill and the class winning the FitzHugh Ludlow Cup may well be proud of their prize. The merits of this innovation can- not be adequately estin1ated in advance nor too highly praised. Directly following the singing contest the General Electric Company will give an electric display consisting of smoke bombs, etc., exactly such as will be used at the Panama-Pacific Exposition. The classes will then put on a lot of new \stunts some of which will be extre1nely clever. For example, the Costnopolitan Club will give a mock bullfight. At 9:45 o'clock all the alumni will form a \U\ and sing \Alma Mater\ by way of closing the evening's celebration. On Wednesday the regular Commence- ment exercises will be held and in the even- ing the Commencement Ball. McKee's orchestra, from New York, will furnish the mu.sic, and Lucas, of Troy, will be the cateter. TENNIS .LOVERS MAKE PREPARA- TIONS. With the advent of Spring, the numerous tennis cottrts about the carnpus are being given their <tnnual grooming in preparation for this terrn's usage of them .. Of last year's tennis teatn there are but three n1entb-ers left, namely, Howell, Wads- worth and Soler, but it is hopeful that some good 1naterial will be forthcoming frotn the freshman class. No schechtle has yet been announced nor have ther~ been any atte1npts as yet to make one out. Captain Wadsworth has hopes of J!roducing a winning team this year and ttrges that all candidates would get to worl<: now in preparing themselves for tryouts!' which will be 1nade probably during the first part of May. TICKLING THE EDITOR. One of the newest ga1nes for young and old, says the Ohio State Monthly, is entitled \Tickling the Editor.\ It consists in ap- propriating a piece of paper-the larger the better-a bottle of ink, and a good pen. The players sit at a table and each contestant begins to scribble all the stray news hap- penings concerned vvith old college-mates and his own personal history that con1es into his bead. When this is done he puts his soluti()n into a statnped envelope and forwards it to the handsome gentleman who puts out tbe Ohio State JVIonthly. The gctme gets its name from the wild whoops of delight that follow the receipt of the letter. The gan1e is becoming more popular every day among Ohio State grads., and can be played very successfully by tnaiL Have yon tried it yet? Try it ()11 the ''Concordy ,\ boys.

j t ' 'THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 COS'MOPOLITAN CLUB. On Monday night, March 30th, the Cos- mopolitan Club held their regular fortnight- ly tneeting. This year the club has taken a decided step toward its betterment. Due to the loyalty and interest that President Carlos Morriera da Silva, '15, has shown in the club and also to his executive ability as the head of this organization, the management of this club has been put on a better and more substantial basis. The upperclassmen who have the interest of Union at heart are trying to infuse this spirit into the under- classmen. .. We feel that the Cosmopolitan Club is doing its best to help the college, for through its efforts many of our best stu- dents are persuaded to come here. We prophecy that the Cosmopolitan Club is going to attain great accomplishments and is going to become an important part of the college activities. Dome was out walking with his girl one day when a vicious bulldog crossed their path. Dome's actions did not speak of invincible bravery. \Dome said the fair one, after the dan- ger was over, \I thought you said you would face death for me.\ \Well pleaded Dome, \I will, but that bulldog wasn't dead.\ TEAS AND COFFEE IN CHEMISTRY LAB. Monday evening Mr. Arthur of the Gen- eral Eiectric Laboratory spoke on \Teas and Coffees,\ in the chemical lecture room, under the auspices of the department of chemistry. Mr. Arthur, who has been for many years an interested student of teas and coffees, introduced his subject by trac- ing the history of the coffee and tea plants, the different modes of cultivation in va- rious countries, soil and climate necessary, with ways of growing and pruning. The composition of raw and roasted coffee were shown by chart, their differences pointed out and their meaning. After answering the oft-repeated question of the psyscologi- cal effects of coffee by saying it depended entirely on the individual, the speaker re- ferred to the adulterations in coffee and ex- plained the principle of artificial coffees. The ~ubject of teas was dwelt on at length by Mr. Arthur and, in fact, was more in- teresting. He spoke on the history of the tea plant, and described in detail the curing process. The different varieties were de- scribed and places grown noted, and the characteristic aroma of each variety was given by samples passed through the au- dience. THE TANGO A DISEASE? People have been unable to account for the great \tango craze,\ by which nearly everybody who is able to kick up heels and cavort about seems to be possessed, and possibly the solution is found in history. There have been epidemics of the \dancing mania\ before, and the Encyclopaedia Americana, under the heading of \Dancing Diseases,\ gives this account of the previous outbreaks: \An epidemic nervous disorder, apparent- ly allied to hysteria and chorea, occasionally prevalent in Germany and Italy during the middle ages. As it has been in every in- stance propagated by physical contagion, like chorea, there is every reason to con- clude that it had a like origin. In 1734, during the celebration of the festival of St. John at Aix-la-Chapelle, the city streets be- came crowded with men and women of all ranks and ages who commenced dancing in a wild and frantic manner, many losing en- tire control over themselves and continuing to dance until dropping down with fatigue.~· ,

24 THE COlf:CORDIENSIS 'The mania spread to Cologne, Metz and Strasburg, and gave rise to much imposture and disorder.\ Students of the situation are inclined to the belief that the present ''tango\ craze is nothing more nor less than a recrudes· cence of the widespread mania of several hundred years ago. We have tango teas, dinners, breakfasts, tango trains with dartc· ing cars attached, and tango teachers aboard. steamships. The cabarets and halls ancl theaters are overshadowed by the dance, which really is nothing but a conglo1nerate of violent motion in response to the de- mand of the mania of the times. The name was taken from an Argentine dance-and the nan1e is said to be the sole resen1blance. Otherwise it is merely an expression of exuberant hysteria of motion. THE WAIL OF A \FROSH.\ I can't sleep nights ; I'm never hungiy any more; I have fits of dejectedness, spells of wild happiness, nervous lapses t1tat seem to sap the vital fluids, drop upon drop, out of my very heart. Reader, I have a decision to make, a vital, once-for-all decision; a decision tna t I feel will mold my whole future into a brilliant, glittering success-or into black, hopeless failure. I shrink from taking the leap; and yet I must, or become a gibberh1g idiot. So, reader, like the dying man and the straw, I'm going to throw myself at your feet in one last hopeless attempt to find a steady hand to guide me through this treacherous channel of n1y life. Reacler, I'm going to tell you two little stories, one about a bad little boy, another about a good little boy. When I have finished rott will know the question that now burns my soul. Then, I hope-I pray- you will be able to help me. The Story of the Bad Little Boy. One upon a time, a bad-a very, very bad -little boy went to a university. This lit- tle boy bad been bad practically all his life. To be exact, he began when he was eleven minutes old-by smashing a bottle of nice, warm milk on his nurse's head, and then laughing openly without the least bit of shan1e. We are told he received his first good spanking one minute later. Now this bad little boy grew up very fast. He also grew wicked very fast. He learned to smoke and drink and swear phenomenally young. At the age of seven his fond mother · took hin1 to church for the first tilne, and almost died of shame when he dropped a hymnal down upon the 1ninister's bald spot from the balcony. The minister was a 1i ttle put out, of course, but, let it be said to his credit, that he didn't think of resigning until the second book came down. As for the Sabbath schools, they just naturally dwindled away and shut down when this little boy came around. Faithful, earnest- hearted n1inisters began to leave the city in twos and threes as he grew older and more influencial. During his seventeenth year the city police force resigned en masse and left the country. Then his father gave him all the money he had left, aimed him towards a university, said a prayer for the college, and committed suicide. His col- legiate career was meteoric. He was the most brilliant student in his class-perhaps indirectly due to a pony which he kept rolled up in his left pants leg. One night, in his senior year, he made a world's rec- ord by svv-allowing forty-seven steins o:f. beer in one hour flat, after which he picked a scrap with the head waiter and wound up in dumping the whole restaurant out onto the sidewalk. In chapel tneeting the next day he explaned that he had done it in the interest of the Salvation Army, and was forthwith elected president of the Away With Rum Club. By using both pant legs in his last term he attained the validictory-

THE CON·CORDIENSIS 25 ship. In two days after Comimencement he stole a gold watch fro1n a detective. ·He pawned the watch and with the 1noney had printed seven hundred deeds for land lying son1ewhere near the center of Puget Sound. These he sold for five thousand dollars a piece in Elmira and Yonkers. Then he pur- chased seventy-six gambling houses in the Bowery and a brownstone-front on Fifth Avenue. Son1etime later, when he was a miHionaire, he personally led a raid on one of his own joints, was proclaimed far and wide as a brilliant social reforn1er, and soon after was swept into the United States Senate by an aln1ost unanin1ous vote. He is now living in the u tlnost luxttry off bribe money, a n1an beloved, envied and loved by three n1illion people. So ends the strange tale of the bad little boy. The Story of the Good Little Boy. Once upon a time there was a good little boy. From his early childhood he showed the most striking proofs of the gentle, lov- ing, Christian character that was to grace him in his later life. He always went to Sabbath school, always joined his sweet, earnest, little voice in the hy1nns., no matter how hard the other naughty boys shoved pencils down his neck; always went cheer- fullly to day school, and never under any circun1stances would be persuaded to drop quicklime in the teacher's ink or pour water in the two little leather hollows in the teacher's chair. One day he tried to calm tvvo very tough little boys who were fight- ing horribly with each other, but I could hardly say he was successful, because his poor 111 other took seven n1inutes to recog- nize him ,;vhen he got ho1ne tbat night. So, ever doing the thing that was right and according to the teachings of his beloved Sabbath school, he grew up and ca1ne to Union. Now, you and I and the Sabbath school teacher would surely expect such a character as this little boy had to reach the highest pinnacle of success in a college career; but, alas, it was not to be so. In every act this good little boy did he always seemed to just n1iss out one way or the other and w,as always. WC\efully misundertstood by his fellow students. One day his Latin class, unanirnously but for h i1n, decided to bolt. Now, this little boy loved his Latin and resented the cruel way his fellows spoke about it. So he waved his arn1s for quiet and said, \Ah 1ny dear men, it is wrong to bolt a recitation and I will not do it! I insist-\ Then they broke his glasses and filled his n1outh with leaves from his Latin book a11d gave him up to the professor, saying that he had tried to organize a bolt. For this offense, and others, the poor little boy vvas ejected fron1 college. Simnltaneous- ly, his outraged father cast him forth fro1n the paternal roof. K ot even daunted by this cruel treatn1 ent, he set forth into the world on a mission of mercy and refornla- tion. Ai1ning high, as was his custon1, he undertook the refonning of a state senator. In about a day and a half he was arrested for insanity, placed in a padded cell for life, and there died forty-one years later. The question is, which path shall I choose? Knight, '17. Ans. from the Ed. \lirtue is its own re- ward. FRENCHIE FRESHMEN DINE. \Johnny\ 1\1arch vvas the gnrst of honor at a \Frosh\ banquet given Saturday night in the \' endon1e by the students in his 1n- tennediate freshman class. The aff3ir, the first of its kind in the history of the college, was convincing evidence of Doctor ~farch's popularity. 'The menu was entirely in French and the courses vvere distinctively French in nature. Humorous quotations

26 THE OONCORDIENSIS from past class recitations were the .most interesti;ng feature of the rnenu cards. W m. }\[orris Gilbert, Jr., 17, was the t t ,j: f th . ''] h \ oas· master o· · . e e-ven1ng. o nny March., the initial speaker, replied to the toast \'rbe Ethics of Bolting.\ Ewans L. Jones, Jr~, answered to \How to Read Be- tween the Lines.\ Hugll. J. Williams spoke on \Whr I Came to College.'' H. Ralph Knight -took the toast \The Ladies.\ Louis H. Ma.vrn concluded the· toast list, respond- ing to \The Club.\ Those present, according to the menu card, were : \Johnny\ Mar·ch, \Mange\ Cor- bett, '·P~i-ck Axe\ Cleary, \Doc\ Stephens, \Hoos-ier~' Williams, ''Hook~' Wemple, \Gilly\' Gilbert, F. X. Jones, \Father\ Hal- lock, '~R!Dmeo\ Knight (ie fidele chameau), \Ray\ Kosinski, \Togo~' Lester, \Sphinx\ Mandeville, \Loey\ Ma..nn (the Forty-sec- ond St. Twain), \First-grade\ Simmons, \Bosco'' Taffe, \Frosh'' Jenkins. The courses were : Hors d'oeiuvres Potage paysanne Saumon a l'imperiale Haricots verts Boularder du maus du cresson Salade Cafe AN EDITOR ON DUTY. Most anybody can be an editor, says the Bosto11 Globe. All an editor has to do is to sit at ~his desk six days in the week, four weeks in the month, twelve months in the year, a.nd \edit\ stuff like this: \JVI rs. Jones, of Lone Creek, let a can- opener slip, last week,. and cut herself in the pantry.\ \A mischievous lad of Bungtown threvv a stone and struck a companion in the alley last 'Tuesday.\ \Joe Doe climbed on the roof of the house last w~ek looking for •et. leak and fell, strik- ing himself on the back por,ch.\ \While Harold Green was escorting Miss Violet Wise from a church social last Sat- urday night a savage dog attacked them and bit Mr. Green on the public square.\ \Isaiah Trimmer, of Lebanon, was play- ing with a cat, Friday, when it scratched him on the veranda.\ \Mr. White, while harnessing a broncho last Saturday was kicked just south of the corncrib.\ Anybody can \edit\ a newspaper. It's the easiest job and softiest snap in the world.-Kansas Industrialist. REPORT OF BASKETBALL DINNER COMIMTTEE. 7 4 tickets sold at $1.00 ........ e ••• $ 7 4 00 129 tickets sold at $0.85. . . . . . . . . . . . 109 65 Total proceeds ................. $184 50 Catering .................... , .... $137 00 Rent of gymnasium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 00 Printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 00 Tablecloths . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 85 Alumni notices and postage . . . . . . . 11 10 Total expenditures ............. $176 85 Balance ........................ $ 7 65 To janitor for volunteered service.. . 2 50 Balance ........................ $ 5 15 To gymnasium apparatus fund 5 15 Signed for the committee, H. J. DELCHAMPS. \They say he's a fine, upstanding fel- low.\ \Every bar within a radius of a mile from the campus knows it.\ Ex.

e s e 15 15 ile TI-IE OONCORDIENSIS ---------------------------------------------------------------- ' I .i ii .Schenectady's Greatest Drug· Store Telephone anything to ·Quinn's. Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY For Work, For Play, For Out Doors, For In Doors, For Day, For Night For every use there is a suit with the Steefel Clothes idea behind it. Don't forget. Snappy Hats, Gloves, Shoes and fur .. nishings for the young man who wants to \\' t b \ &e. y. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL'' Vaudeville--Photoplays Every afternoon & Evening 3 to S 6:45 to 11 SU'NOAYS: Feature Pictures Special Music • Ntm llttu~nmt ifnttl A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to IS· Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. 1-lanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for ali occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONTZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONlZI~RS

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS The National ''Makings'' Enough \Bull\ Durham Tobacco 1s sold tn a year to makeapproxtmately 12billion ctgarettes-about the same number as all brands o'f ready -made cigarettes tn this country combined- and the sales are steadtly growing. One thtng that has always beenheartlly apprectated about ·'Bull', Durham is tts untque, dehcious aroma. Thts spectal and ind1vidual fra- grance 'lS produced by an exclustve process known only to the makers of ''Bull'~ Durham. You recogntze 1t in an instant. You can get tt tn no other tobacco. GE.NUINE \BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO (Enough for forty hand-made cigarettes in each 5c sack) Get a 5-cent sack at the nearest dealer's today -''roll your own \-and enjoy the most satisfying luxury tn the world. Sold wherever good tobacco Ask/orFREE I. k . .en •• uoo OJ patJer~ with each 5c lack is sold-and you can always get it fresh. An Illustrated Booklet, F R E E showmg how to,. Roll Your Own, ''and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be matled,free~ to any address in U. S. on postal request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Durham,. N .. C.,. Room 1210. THE AMERICAN 1\0BACCO COMPANY

THE GONCORDIENSIS N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. ,special Rates to Students · C:otrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;::::;~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil Makers of ,Caps, Gow-ns and Hoods 1878 E. C. HARTLEY 1914 Dealer in Fine Groceries and Provisions Special Prices made for goods in ,quantities to College Fraternity Houses. 601-603 UNION STREET TELEPHONE AJ. lJ. W4tarlt DELICATESSEN ''Joe'' caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John' 1 Church To the American C()Heges and Universities from 'PHONE 298-W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty . 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acq11ainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. ShiTta and Collars, Fownea .. Glove• for all occaaions, Opera and Silk hata, Beat Canes, Bag• and Suit . Cases. Everytbing for well dresaed men Higgins' ( Drawin• Ink• I Eternal W ritin~ Ink En~rossinatlnk I Taurine Mucila-e \') Photo Mounter Paate ·1 Drawin~ Board Paate l Liquid Paste Office Paste Ve.tetable Gluea, etc:. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' lNK.S AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to yo~, they are s<> sweet, clean, well put up, and wi tnal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Vistltn'J T!:L(PHo\t Cards 26 '' w W'eddlnQ' Stahonery \Bust n¢ s Cards- Leiter Heads Class Pins -Mono(ram.s Crests, Coats of Arms etc . .DESIGNI:f\. .[ NGf\AVE'.~S Pf\tN'TEf\5 t:MBOS81!1{8

THE CONCORDIENSIS SAUER BROTHERS Successors to Schenectady Book Bindery- and Printing Company Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made to Order. 316 State Street-Phone 2799-W. Special Rates to Students HOTEL AND RESTAURA'NT LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard · Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. · 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With Over too,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. ------------------------------- JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletie Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great difft ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Alban7 Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J lluinu N nttnun11Suuk @tritrurtta[tg, ·iN. 1. Safe Deposit Bo:xes for Rent PA'I'RONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS 949 - Dime Me.ssenger Service - 949 Messengers furnished for Delivery of Parcels, Notes, Invitations, Circulars and Errands 438 STATE STREET, opposite Jay St. TELEPHONE 949 THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine .from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita's Orchestra FURNITURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, '10, ·I r, '12 and 19 I 3 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 167 H \It St Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ICe an es., ami OR •, . any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son n8 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\ SAY YOU SAW IT IN 'THE \ CONCORDY '\

''Balmacaans\ for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. J. HILLMAN 617 State Street The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building '•On your way to the Post Office\ SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street ~ The Students' Problem Solved You can get the extra half h:our sleep every morn· ing and still be on time for ehapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTR.IC TOASTER and an ELE<:- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiti11g Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largett dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZJUUI

THE OONCORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MOE D'E WILDEr Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and teather Goods i&n!Ul, t4r 1Bnrbtr 54 State St., A1bany, N. Y. William j. R~inhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. ,(,4 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store •'Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S . 26-28 No. Pearl Sto Alban;, 2nd SHIRTS 50c Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Groming\ DANKER Reliable Corsag,e Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLE'I'S AND GARDENIAS Albany 40 aftd 1-2 Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR. P..A:PB:R'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA 'Music F urnished f·or all Occasions Telephone 2131-J I; The Manhattan Co. '. 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest cash prices Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros. • Sweaters Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles 310 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishet 21·2 So. Centre St. A ••sQUARE DEAL'\ for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S uldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • pa ng TOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State iAY YOU S.A W IT IN THE \ CONCORD!' •·

THE CONCORDIENSIIS W4t f!1nmptnu Alha:uy THE LAR·GEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 m. '· QJ}Jnrtt 46 7 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

.. eor l Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you • • know that a store that ~ells f1., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell t~e right kind o! !-lther things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press ...

, ..,or. PVBLISHED·WEEKLY BY· THE STVDENTS· OF·VNION·COLLEGE .. The danger of the prosaic type of mind lies in the stolid sense of superiority which blinds it to everything ideal, to the use of anything that. does not serve the practical purposes of life . .......... James Russel Low€11. APRIL 23, 1914 No.21

UNION 'UNIVERSITY CHAR'LES ALEXANDER RICHMO:ND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE -:fbe college offers the · following undergraduate ud graduate cours~s : 1. Cour•e• leadlnc to the de~r.r~e of ·A. B._ CLASSICAl, CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- clttded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be re-quired to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin ia :prerequisite. I. Courae leadlnc to the d~cree ot P.Ja. D. ;LA'tlN-SCIEN~r1IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tioDal work in modern languages and science. S. Courae leadlnar to the. desree of B. s. SciENTU'IC CouRSE- This course is based .upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leadiD&' to the degree ot B. m. GENERAl. ENGINEERING CouJtsE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the ~ciences, the fanda- meDtal principles of the special' branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economic$ and modern languag.es. SANITARY EN~INEERING CouRS£- This differs front the .general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general mgineering studies. Et,~CTRICAI. ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering edt~cation, witlt the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courae. leadlna to craduate de&'ree•• CouRsE I.I:ADING To DEGREE or M. C. E.- This cottrse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N.Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our spedal Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c Co-.:r,BSE LEADING '1'0 DEGREE O.F' M.S. E. E.-This cours.e of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Conas~ LEADING TO DEGREE oF PH. D.-· This coursr of, t~a years of graduate study requires for admis- sion th.e degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For .catalogues or other infor,mation addresa F. C. BARNES.., Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTltiENT OF MEDICINE ALB ANY MEDICAL COLLEGE--Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Ho!lt:.ital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion semt on application to: WILLIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AKASA J. p .AR.KER, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALJB.ANY LAW St;HOOL-This department of the mni.versity is located at Albany, near the state capit()l. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. 'rhe course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three y-ears; each year is divided into two semesters. Expe-nses: Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WA'l'SON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALlB.ANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course tOf instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HURSTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Ever)'thing for the College Man except Exam•\ GUNNING '16 SW:E.A TERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, B-ANNERS AND PILLOW COVE.RS Sillimam Hail Phone 1896~W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ,.,.CONCORDY ..

): THE CrONCORDIENSIS In the ''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning'' for . a QUIZ- When your making up that \condition\- 01 when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt \- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery an d c h e e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you '11 buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematic,al or Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $1S DIRECT FROM THE FA, CTORY ' Clothes Shop ~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N.Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PA.P~R'S PATRONIZIDRS

THE CON~CORDIENSIS Ho,me-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The :Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 3 I Steuben Street, Headquarters for Tennis Supplies f@1 Jay A. Rickard ~Co. 253 State ,st. \Schenectady's Sporting Goods Store'~ 109 No. Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, • • • President T. I. Van ANTWERP, • Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, - General Counsel Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jlaj!a illunr4 Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. Clark & McDonald • The 70 Year Old Jewelry and Optical House 2 3 3 State Street Schenectady ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW 1'1' IN THE \CONCORDY\

THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corJJ.~r Barret Get Tomorrow'·s· S.tyle To•day in a. Regal Shoe The styles I:n Regal Shoes to-day are those you wDI see to-morro~ in other Shoes. M .. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady A·gency .for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles PRINTING THAT lS RI~GHT, REASO,NABLE AND ON 'TlME ~rqrurrta~y Art Jrrnn J. ·H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the fa-,()red among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \T:HE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 ST AT:E .STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS , 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Ofhjgh-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds oi Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER-, ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\ -GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it wiJt be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACB TELEPHONE 4258-W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.ATRONIZERI

THE ICONCORDIENSIS F. W. Mullin ''The !louse of F,ine Clothes'' J. F. Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mullin BABBITT'S . ~auit & Q!nmpnuy Admiral Array ESTABLISHED1840 OF NEW SPRING CLOTHES Might well be called a spring freshet of attractiveness for the distinctive makes which com- pose our new spring stock, will be the favorite wear for fashion· able men this season. An appeal to taste and Economy will be found in our Balmacaans at $15 These coats are a special pur- chase and contain 'imported fabrics; many of these coats are $20 and $25 values which we have put into our \FRANKEL FIFTEEN\ Line; and· the fab- rics are as rare as the price we have marked them. You do not meet your double with a \Frankel Fifteen,\ as like other lines this make is ex- clusive with u~ in this Tri-City Territory, the same as Rogers- Peet, the ''L\ System and our own make. Babbitt & Co. '451-453 Broadway ''Albany's Greatest Clothiers'' ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTI-1 PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. Do Your Glasses Stay Put? If not, have you tried the ''Comfort Mounting?'' Order it for your new glasses or have it attached to your present lenses. Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY\ i ~ i

i ~ i THE CONCORDIENSIS V;is.it Our Victo,r. We Solicit Your Patronage Y ott Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WEBER Cluett & . Sons Parlor ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE PIANOLA PIANOS SOS STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y Are You Progressing? · \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Are you in need ofshoe repairing?·, If so, don't forget us, as we don~t forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St .. , and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our ·Barrett St~eet Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. 5 lj1 Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repai~ing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Oppostte Jay Street F 0 d S · T 1 h 3456· 229 State Street 26 Stores ree r er ervtce e ep one H 0 L TZ MAN's LATEST STYLES-MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1811 We have Clothed the Sona of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES (j] French, Shriner & Umer Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn All styles and leathers • HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Sch6n1Jctad:p 's LarAe.st Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY''

'THE CON·CORDIEN.SIS Why Should I Smoke T'UXEDO? ·T·· UXEDO is the logical s,moke for m£lliona£res because it ·is impos- sible to bay a better tobacco. Tuxedo is the logical .smoke for the economical man because there are 40 pipefuls in a tell-cent tin- making the average cost per pz\peful only one-fourth of a cent I To buy cheaper tobacco means to get less pleasure out of smoking, because it is impossible to make a tobacco as good as Tuxe.do at less than the Tiuxedo brice/ ... flze Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo is made of only the finest, choicest selected leaves ,of perfectly aged Burley tobacco. It is made by the origz\nal \Tuxedo Process\ which takes all the unpleasantness out of tobacco and leaves all the pleasantness in I Tuxedo bas a deliciously mild, fragrant aroma that -is pleasant to all. It is the only tobacco you cnn smoke in a ro<>m full of lace · curtains without leaving even a trace of odor. A trial will convince you that Tuxedo is superior to every other tobacc(); you have ever smoked. Euy a tin-today. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenien.t pouch, 5 in n e r · lin e.d tv·i t h moisture•proof paper C Famous green tin. with go lei lettering. 1 0 C curv·ed to fit pocket In Gle~s3 HumidoTs~ SOc and 90c FREE : . Send us 2 cents i11 stamps for post- i age and we vvill mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address ·~ THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1209 111 Fifth Avenue New York 1209 GEO.CURRY ex-Governor, New Mexico u Tuxedo appeals .to me atrongly on account of its · cool, mild, pleasant flavor. Therein lies its superiority to all other tobaccos. •• ·~~ STANTON WARBURTON Congressman State of Washington \My own experience leads me to believe hat every de- sirable qualiiJ) is present in Tuxedo Tobacco. It is the best smoke I ever had. •' ,s:~ IRVIN S. COBB humorist and novelist ~ • I can't think of any rea• son why I shouldn't say I like Tuxedo -- because I do li/ee it, ver,Y much. '\ 9>-~ J. ~ - II •

•I ' THE OONCORDIENSIS Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bro& ALBANY For Work, For Play, For Out Doors~ For In Doors, For Day, For Nigkt For ~every use there is a suit with the Steefel Clothes idea behind it. Don't forget. Snappy Hats, Gloves, Shoes and fur- nishings for the young man who wants to ':'get by.'' •PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFU~L\ Vaudeville- Photoplays Every aiternoon & Evening 3 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures Special M·usic N tw 1lrubnmt i;nttl A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to •s. Surefits $4 tQ $6. Stetsons $6 to 17. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY ? A TRONIZE YOUR P APJDR'S P A TRONIZ'FlRS

THE ~OONCORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE Boys, now's the time to ''Go Fis:hing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a Goo:d Outfit insures you against the petty anoyances and means. Good Luck. W,e have a Splendid Line to show you-'CaH in -.. Bristol Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait IPaHs Landing Nets ~Gaff Hooks Trout Flys and Bait Everything for the Fisherman ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REP AIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophnore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savin.gs Bank ' COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer'' ~~RN:; 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~~~ ~~g D. B. PAIGlt, Si~ma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11990078 119911·~· Collel!e Representative ·..., I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. ''Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building ............ ······~ no aNeW ARROW X:khCOLLAR Cluett. Peabody & Co •• Inc. Makers SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 APRIL 23, 1914 NO. 21 · BASEBALL SEASON OPENS. Union Victorjous Over Stevens Tech. Union's defeat of Stevens by a score of 4 to 3 Sa.turday on the Ca1npus opened the baseball season very auspiciously for the home teatn. Union played in midseason form, making eleven hits off Riker, and only committing one error. Hu1nmer pitched a won<lerful game, striking out eleven n1en, allowing only three hits, only one base on balLs, and hitting only one man. The team's performance was especially creditable since tl1e practice work has been a little ragged. The itlfield w:ith a new man, Rosecranz, on second, worked together swiftly and with precision; :and the outfield handled its few chances well. There was no throwing the baH away or other indication of poor thinking. A feature of the game, besides Hummer's pitching, was the hitting of Woods, Hummer, Houghton, and Rose- cranz, wlio got two hits apiece. Rosectanz, Houghton, and Woods each knocked out two-baggers. Stevens played a fast game, and the Stevens pitcl1er, Riker, while hit freely, sent three mien back to the bench on strikes, and didn't walk a man .. Stevens scored a run in the second and Union tied the score in the fifth. In the sixth inning an error, a little poor coaching, and a single scored two n1ore for the Hoboken team. This looked like a big lead as Riker was pitching a steady consistent gan1e but in the eighth a hatting rally and some fast base running won the game for the Garnet. At the start of that inning, Hummer beat out an infield scratch and was advanced to second by Dave Beaver's sacrifice bunt along the first base line. Woods clouted a screaming single over second that brought Hummer home, while Teddy went to second on the throw-in. Captain Naumann tried to sacrifice but the hit was not long enough and went for the second out without ad- vancing the runner. Barclay hit a fast grounder to short which the player was un- able to field and Woods came ho1ne, tieing the score. Another two-bagger by Hough- ton this time over the Terrace wall in right field brought Barclay in with the winning run. Friday ended the suspense by fanning. The game by innings : First Inning. Stevens.-H ummer fanned the first two men to face him, and Woods caught Mem- ory's liner for the third out. Union.-Dave Beaver, Woods, and Nau- mann went out one, two, three on assists to first.-Score: Union, 0; Stevens, 0. Second Inning. S t e v en s. - J aeggle knocked the ball

•., 12 THE GONCORDIENSIS through second for the first hit of the game and Lenthe brought hi1n home with a two- bagger. Beloff fanned; Ashley was out on a fly to right field, and Carey fanned. U nion.-Barclay was out on a fly to short. Houghton got a hit, and Friday flied out to second. Houghton immediately stole second, and Jake Beaver was out on an assist from Riker to Farris.-Score: Union, 0; Stevens, L Third Inning. Stevens.-Hutnmer threw Riker out at first base, Teedy got Johnson by the same route, and Farris struck out. U nion.-Rosecranz flied out to right field. Humtner drew the first-baseman off the bag on his hit, and the pitcher failed to cover first. Hutnmer safe. Barclay ran for I-Ium- mer and stole second. Dave Beaver was out on a fly. Barclay takes third when the second-baseman fumbles the throw to catch him. Barclay tried to stretch the steal but was caught standing up at the home plate. -Score : Union, 0; Stevens, 1. Fourth Inning. Stevens.-Me1nory was out on a circus catch by Rosecranz. J aeg.g1e struck out. Lenthe was out, Hummer to Houghton. U nion.-W oods couldn't get to :first in front of the short stop's throw and was called out. \Dutch\ Naumann was out the same way, and Johnson caught Barclay's fly.-Score: Union, 0; Stevens, 1. Fifth Inning. Stevens.-\Dutch\ threw Beloff out at first. Rosecranz caught Ashley's fly way out near the right field base line, and then threw out Carey. Union.-Houghton was out on a fly to second. Riker threw Friday out at first. Jake Beaver beat out a clever bunt by fast running, and stole second standing up. Rosecranz swung hard on the ball and scored Jake on a two-bagger. Hun11ner was out on an assist by Riker.-Score : Union, 1 : 'Stevens, 1. Sixth Inning. Stevens.-Riker was out on an assist by Dave Beaver. Johnson who leads the Stevens batting order is up with war in his eye. He hits safe· and goes to second on Barclay's futnble of Farris' fly. Memory hits a short grounder to Woods but no one covered the bag. Teedy hesitated and then threw to first. The bases full and J aeggle, fourth 1nan on the batting order up. J aeggle hits a two-bagger to right, and two runs cross the plate. Hummer tightened up then, and threw Lenthe out at first. Beloff popped to H utnmer. Union.-Dave Beaver hit safely to center :field but was out stealing. Woods' hit was good for two bases. \Dutch\ Naumann poped out to the cc;ttcher. Teedy was out on B.arclay's hit to score him.-Score: Union, 1 ; Stevens, 3. Seventh Inning. The first man up for Stevens was out, \Dutch\ to Erney. Carey fanned. Riker walked but was out stealing. Union.-Houghton Hied out to center. Friday hit through third base. Jake Beaver ·out on fly to left. Friday stole second, and took third on the second-baseman's fumble. Rosecranz fouled the ball off ten times and then struck out.-Score: Union, 1; Stevens, 3. Eighth Inning. Stevens.-Johnson out, Woods to Hough- ton. ·Hummer hit Memory, Brown runs for him, out stealing. Farris out on strikes. U nion.-H ummer beat out a hit and Dave Beaver sacrificed him to second. Woods brought H urn mer hon1e with a single on which he took second. N autnann out on fly to left. Barclay knocked Woods home on Johnson's error. Houghton brings Barclay home on two-base hit over the Terrace. Friday fannecl.-Score: Union, 4; Stevens, 3. Ninth Inning. Stevens.-] aeggle hit a ·Texas leaguer to center. Lenthe and Beloff fanned and J aeggle was out stealing. :\ . ! · •.

THE ~OONCORDIENSIS 13 UNION. a b. r. h. po. a. D. Beaver, c ........... 3 0 1 11 3 Woods ' 3b. . . . . . . . . ... ' 4 1 2 2 2 Naumann, ss. . . . . . . . . 4 0 0 0 2 Barclay, cf. . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 1 0 0 Houghton, lb. . . ,, . . . . . 4 0 2 9 0 Friday, rf.. . . . . . . . . . . . 0 0 1 1 0 J. Beaver, lf. • • • I I I I • I 3 1 1 0 0 Rosecranz, 2b. . . . . . ... 3 0 1 3 1 Humn1er, p. . . . . . . . . . . 3 0 2 1 3 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 4 11 27 11 STEVENS. a b. Johnson, 2b. . . . . . . . . . 4 Farris, 1 b. . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Memory, 3b. . . . . . . . . . 4 J aeggle, ss. . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Len the, c. . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Beloff, lf. . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Ashley, rf. . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Carey, cf. . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Riker, p. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 *Brown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 r. 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 h. 1 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 po. a. 4 1 10 1 0 0 1 2 4 3 2 0 1 0 2 0 0 5 0 0 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3 5 24 12 *Ran for Memory in eighth. Score by innings : Union ............ 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 3 0 *-4 Stevens ........... 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0--3 Errors-Barclay, Jaeggle, Riker. Two- base hits--Lenthe, Houghton and Rose- cranz. Struck out-By Hun1mer, 11; by Riker, 2. Base on balls-Off I-I un1mer, 1. Stolen bases-Barclay, 3; Dave Beaver, 2; Houghton, Hummer. Sacrifice hit--Dave Beaver. Ti1ne-1 :45. Umpire-Glen. At- tendance-800. SOME OTHER SCORES. Harvard, 15; Anny, 6. Rutgers, 5; R. P. I., 0. Rhode Island State, 10; Wesleyan, 1. Stevens, 5 ; Hamilton, 4. Colgate, 5; Utica (State League), 1. PRE:SIDE.NT RICHMOND RETURNS FROM THE SOUTH. Prexy's trip was originaHy meant to be a vacation, but the temptation to cotnbine business with pleasure was too strong, and so,. in addition to having spent two most enjoyable weeks in the South, Prexy has returned to us again with the announcement that H. Melville Hanna, of the class of 1860, has again demonstrated his interest in the college to the extent of presenting a check for $5,000. This gift was entirely un- solicited by President Richmond. Oh, for more such surprises! Prexy's :first stop was Washington. Not in the best of health when he left here, he succumbed to an attack of la grippe im- mediately upon his arrival and was pre- vented from filling an engagement to preach. Despite his physician's orders he attended the annual dinner of the Washington Alum- ni on March 30. Are the various Union Alumni Associations cotnbined in a con- spiracy against Prexy's digestion? \!Vhile in Washington, Dr. Richmond met Senator Elihu Root and extended an invita- tion to him to act as honorary chancellor at con1mencement. This invitation was ac- cepted. Hamilton, please take notice. We have kidnapped one of your loyal sons. On his return, President Richmond stopped at St. Augustine, and also saw Mrs. Catherine Spenser Leavitt, founder of the I chabod Spenser Lectures in Psychology. She is to present the college with a portrait of her father, Dr. Spenser. Thus was Prexy's southern trip con- cluded. Activities at home now claim his attention. On April 14th he addressed the Ilion Board of Trade at its dinner. On April 15 he attended the University Club dinner at Albany. On April 29 he will at- tend the dinner of the Alumni Association of New England, to be held in Springfield, Mass.

''I 14 THE CONCORDIENS~JS A real diplomat is a man who sends nine- teen roses to a woman on her thirty-first birthday. p·RE'SS CLUB HOLDS ELECTIONS AND BANQUET. The -election of the officers of the Press Club for next year was held in the after- noon of April 8. B,efore the election of officers, an atnendment to the Constitution was proposed to the effect, ''That the elec- tion of officers shall be held at the last regular meeting in March instead of at the last meeting in April.\ The following are the results of the election : President, W. Mandeville, '15. Vice- President, Nat. Finch, Jr., '16. Treasurer, P. A. Hauenstein, '16. Secretary, D. F. Chapman, '17. To Executive Committee, W. A. Hughes, '15. Faculty Adviser, Dr. R. T. Hill. Mandeville and Finch, under the super- vision of Dr. Hill have been the chief boosters of the new system in the Press Club and have shown themselves very worthy of their respective honors. Hauen- stein and Chapman, although they .have only been in the club this year, have shown great efficiency in their work. W. A. Hughes was without a doubt very well chosen. The Press Club choose as their Faculty Adviser, Dr. Hill who was the same during the past two terms. To him the Press Club feels very n1uch indebted because of his constant interest from which better results have been obtained. At this meeting all formal reports of the officers of the past year were given, namely those of the President, Treasurer Secretary ' ' and General News Co1nn1ittee. The meet- ing then adjourned to 6 :30 o'clock for the annual banquet at Glenns. At the banquet, Charles N. V\Taldron arose to the task of toastmaster with his usual wit, and shnwed himself an expert in this position. Dr. F. C. Barnes was the first speaker. He related the history of the Pre?S Club which had its beginning when a few fellows used to 1neet in Silliman Hall. .He cong,ratulated the n1en upon their work and urged them with the :co-operation of the ''Concordy'' to advance the cause of be1 ter English on the \hill.\ The next speaker was Dr. Hill. Dr. Hill urged the club to become the great publicity agent of the college, to push its work hard at all times, and to send the news out in the best of condition. He suggested that the club he made more of an honor or-· ganization in which the Seniors and Juniors should become more prominent. Special stress wa.s placed upon the advantage a man obtains fro111 the work because of the de- mand for accuracy. The toastmaster then introduced H. Hitchcoclc as the representative of the \C.on- cordy.\ He said that, although the men in the Press Club and \Concordy\ received but little pra1se, great work was being done for the college as a whole and for the individual. The next two speakers, President Wal- worth and incon1ing President J\1andeville, were introduced in the terms of Johnny Bennett as the two Kings of Sparta. Wal- worth re\Viewed briefly the year's work. H.e announced that the song book which a committee has been working on all year will come 01.1t next year under the work of the Graduate Council and Press Club. The other Spartan took advantage o'f this oppor- tunity to make suggestions for the coming year. fie urged that Freshmen typists be induced to come out for the club; that com- munication with the Press Clubs of other colleges be taken up; the renewal of the custom of sending out postal cards to the Alumni announcing the home games; and more activity among -the 1nen in the two upper classes. All of the toasts were very interesting and to the point. The menu was as follows:

THE C:ONCORDIENSIS 15 Celery Green Olives Pickles Blue Points, Half Shell Consomme Imperial Filet of Bass a la :Orleans Pommes Juliennes Small Tenderloin on Mushrooms Neapolitaine Ice Cream DemiTasse SENIORS CHOOSE OFFICE·RS. At a meeting of the Senior class, which took place in the chapel last Friday, the following officers were elected: Alfred C. Meneely of Waterford, class marshall; Thomas L. Ennis of Rotterdam Junction, ivy orator; C. Albion Kenworthy of Amster- dam, keeper of the jug; Raymond Van Santvoord of Cohoes, class poet; Victor A. l,ord of Schenectady, class prophet; Arthur L. Hawley of Schenectady, pipe orator; Arthur Loeb of :t-~ ew York City, class orator; Louis du Bois De La V ergne of Kingston, chairman of the class song com- mittee; William A. Mudge of Schenectady and Harrison Gunning of Freeport, mem- bers of the class song committee. A great part of the moving up day exer- cises as well as a large portion of the com- mencement exercises now depends upon these men and it is felt by the members of their class that they will do their share in making the Senior activities of the season a huge success. ? II Th' Scothmon says a mons awricht. When he can say, it's a braw bricht nicht. The Union stewed has a better test ; Watch this space and you'll know the rest! THE IDOL. THE IDOL'S TRUE HISTORY PROVED One of the Two Current Stories Verified. For some time there have been two different stories in existence concerning the \idol.\ One if these stories is to the effect that Dr. Nevius gave us our patron saint while the other gave the credit to Dr. Farn- ham of the class of '56. After a recent · removal of paint, the name of Dr. Farnhatn was found to be chisled on the idol. Mr. Clinton wrote to Dr. Farnham a short while ago to clear up the mystery and in return received the following letter: Shanghai, March 11, 1914. To the Librarian, Union College,

,, .,, . ' ,, l 16 THE OONCORDIENSIS De Witt Clinton, Esq., Schenectady, N.Y. Dear Sir:- I duly received your request for some account of \the Idol.\ I never before heard that Dr. Nev,ius had been accredited with presenting it to the College. I knew I chiseled my name on its side but 1 have also heard that some poor Fresh- man has to apply a fresh .coat of paint every year-and n1y inforn1ant assured me that it must be well nigh an inch thick, by this time. But the scrubbing you descrihe has removed some :forty or fifty coats of paint showing it looking as when it migrated from these shores. These stone images of lions with those of horses, priests, sheep and elephants ar.e found in rows on each side of a path or road leading up to a distin- guished tomb. Two of these lions, like the one you have, \the idol,\ are often seen on each side of the entrance to a Ya Men-a government public office. They are sup- posed to ward off evil spirits or influences- or to strike terror into the hearts of the accused who are being taken there for their trial or as some say they are merely orna- mental. I think I suggested the one I sent should be placed in front. of the library- on a grassy plot, in the middle of the road- perhaps a rod or more from the door. I was rather disgusted when I visited Union a score of years later and saw it in the fields behind the College ! But it has found a place in the affections of the students, I never expected, having become their local deity. It is answering a purpose I never dreamed of, though I must not be held responsible if the sons of old Union turn '(idolaters\ and become heathen. This would be very sad as I am giving my life teaching heathens how to become Christians. I was much gratified to see it used as a vignette on the cover of the \Monthly.\ This particular one was found in an ex- cavation for fortification about the year 1861 or 2, I think. It had probably been buried many hundred years. It was dug up in making a ditch outside of the embankment, just opposite our Boarding School, outside the ·c·ity walls of Shanghai, on the south side of the city. I have had very pleasant memories of the time I spent at Union and of the visit l made there after twelve years in China. Wishing my Alma Mater g.reat success and every blessing, Sincerely yours, J. M. W. Farnham. P. S. I notice you ask for information as to how I obtained the \idol\ and about shipping it. Those who dug it up allowed me to have it and I erected it before the front of our school. Subsequently when I thought I would send it tu tny Alma Mater and was putting it on a boat, a wealthy famHy in the neighborhood came forward and claimed it as having been owned by their ancestors. I was allowed to take it away by paying $20, a squeese perhaps. I then sent it on board a tea ship bound for New Y ark, which really needed it for hal- last. Whether \Union\ paid freight and how it was transported from New York to Schenectady I do not know. It was well I cut on its side my name and '56 or Dr. Nevius would have had the credit of sending it. How this ever came about I cannot imagine. I also sent a collection of coin to Union of no great numismatic value I think. Yours again, J. M. W. F. In clearing up this matter, Mr. Clinton has rendered the worshippers of our idol a very signal service and they as well as the idol itself should be extremely thankful to him for proving for all time without a doubt the true origin of the deity. When asked for the chief provisions of the Mayflower com pact, according to a prep school friend, Windy Downs ans~1ered, \Salt pork and bacon.'~ .\ i ~ ·I ·' :> ' ' (

·' :> ' ' ( THE CON'CORDIENSIS 17 INTEREST NEEDED. Captain :s,aker M1akes Request. You aH probably know that we had a successful track team last year, but few out- side of the tracl< candidates themselves took any interest in the outcome of the season. Track at Union lacks the support and hearty co-operation of the student body. Few of the students exh~ibit any interest whatsoever during the trainimg season and most of them fail-to show u.p even for the meets. No team can be successful without the support from the bleachers. Do you suppose the basketball team would have won the championship of the Northeastern basket ball league if the stu- dent body had n_ot been behind them every minute during the stress of the season? Undoubtedly n:Ot. Well the track team is \your team\ as ~'Fred\ Dawson says and it is up to you to support it. If you cannot come out yourself get someone interested who has ability. With the buach of candidates who are out for the tean1 W€ should be able to clean up R. P. I. and Hamilton this year. In order to do this the rnen will an have to work and work hard. We have less than a month before the R. P .. I. meet, at Troy. Let all the candidates and especially the freshmen bear in mind the fact, that you cannot get something for n-othing. Whatever success you attain in track depends on the effort expended in fitting yourself physically, to meet the strain of com petition. We lost a number of good men last spring but if the freshrnen candidates work, they will more than fill the weak places and Union will have a. well balanced track team this spring, sornething which we have not had in years. Hard work is the only thing which will bring about this desired end. With these few facts in mind we are pre- paring for the R~ P. I. meet, May 9. -J. V. Baker. CONCERNING FIRES. The conduct and coolness of the three hundred Wellesley girls at the recent fire which destroyed their 1nain building is a fine example of self control and discipline. In the midst of the terrific excitement and imminent danger of the conflagration which took place in the middle of the night, the girls were gathered together and the roli called. The eight who were missing were then roused and taken out of the burning building. During the whole procedure there was no evidence of hysterical girl-like den1onstration or panic. No one was burned and everyone was accounted for. This adtnirab1e behavior can be taken as an evidence of the attributes of the modern. type of girl to be found in similar institu- tions for the higher education of young ladies. Although Welles[ey has enoug-h loyal alumni and friends to replace the burned building with a finer and more modern structure, the traditions and prized art treasures cannot be replaced. The sudden fire at Wellesley may well be a stimulation to the authorities of our own and other colleges to build only fireproof dormitories and to provide protection and better means of fire escape in the present buildings. In a part of one of our own buildings, South College, there is a danger- ous fire-trap from which some six or seven students would have difficulty in escaping should there be a fire in the night. NOTICE. All unpaid subscriptions whether Student, Faculty, or Alumni are long past due. If you have not as yet paid prompt for your subscription, your remittance of two dollars in check, money order, or cash will be appre- ciated. Please make c·hecks payable to the \Concordiensis\ and mail to the manager or deposit in the Concordiensis mail box on the \hill.\ We urge again, your .prompt re1nittance will be appreciated.

'·'' ., 1,1'' ,il, \I '. :\1' . i:l '' il\ ' '; .. I ' I I . ' . ,, 18 TKE CONCORD1ENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Pos:toffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lo<lge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHlEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, 'rs, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, r6 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, 'r6 A. M. Jac()bs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS J, C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, 'I 7 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Scha::ier, • 14, Business Manager, 924 De lamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, 'ES, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Ptiblication Office: ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. CONCERNING THE GAME. Before the game last Saturday, almost everyone on the \hill\ was in a state of suspense. Some thought it was a bout an even. chance while others considered that more or less a~vantage rested with our honotable opponents. The game showed that as for chances, they were even and the only advantages on either side were those two essential things-knowing when to strike the death blow and striking it hard at the opportune 1non1ent. to vanity nor defeat to shame. 'T'hose of the squad who were chosen to do the work trotted out on the diamond each inning with a steady, unwavering feeling of determina- tion and by hard and consistent work won the game, while the remainder of the squad sat on the bench equally determined to answer with all that they possessed if called upon and hoping that each moment would bring that can. So much for the men in uniform. Now a word or two concerning the support. We who write these lines do not know who the guilty party is but it comes to us from a reHable source that a state1nent was made last Saturday morning by a student to the effect that he would not take the trouble even to see the game because the Friday afternoon practice was so rotten. If any- thing is rotten, we would say that it is this man's spirit. This team of ours is not a professional aggregation ! Our men are not paid in coin for their labors! They are Union College men fighting, striving, work- ing all the while, day in and day out for the benefit of out Alma Mater. They deserve your support whether they win or loose and if you don't give it to them you are not doing you duty as a man should; you ate not upholding the principles which should be yours and you have not the Union sp-irit of which we boast and boast justly. Incidentally, since the game came out as it did, this unfortunate man seems to have cut off his own nose to spite his face. He is, indeed, to be pitied. Now for the bleachers. They need a rak- ing over too. Why that down-in-the-mouth tone to your yells when things looked bad? The Garnet squad went on the field with little if any more confidence than their sup- porters possessed but they had with them that spirit whic:h victory has never turne.d Why those waves of alternating hope and .'\'

.'\' THE C'ONCORDIENSIS 19 dissatisfaction? Why those occasiona[ mur- mers at slight faults of your representatives? When ''Buck\ calls for a yell, you're there · to give him a yell and not a grunt, whether it's the fifth inning with things looking bad, the \lucky seventh\ with it's spurt of super- stitious hope or the eighth when the tabies are turned and victory seems almost certain. Let us re-new our resolutions which we made a.fter basketball season-to support our athletes and honor them whether they win or lose. They do their best, let us do ou.rs as men, and above all as Union men, should. Let's end this bit of discussion with a long yell for every man who wears a Union base- ball uniform, whether it has the name of our university on the front or a simple ''2\ on the sleeve. They're our men, fellows, let us not forget that 'they deserve our hearty co-operation. THE CLATTER COLUMN. There's plenty of clatter going on around the \hill\ and it is no more than right that some of it should reach the \Concordy.\ For that reason we have started the Clatter Column to which anyone ma.y contribute anything in the line of a joke, short saying limerick or the like and we will promise to print it, if it passes the board of censorship. Now there's no use in forcing yourself to believe everything which you see in the Clatter Column, although we assure you that it is not all fiction. We ask everyone to contribute whenever possible and we hope that the results of your contributions will be shown by happy, Springtime smiles on the faces of our fellow students each Friday morning. NOTICE TO MEMBERS. Tomorrow evening the Black Cat Club will hold a meeting in Silli1nan Hall at 7 :30. Every member should try and be present for three very important topics will be brought up. New members will be voted into the club. The recommendations of the committee on the initiation ceremony will be acted upon. A new system of 1neetings, which will be more convenient for all the mem hers will be discussed. TENNIS TEAM BEGINS ACTIVE WORK. On Saturday, when the baseball team goes to New Brunswick, N. J., to play the Rutgers team, the tennis team will also take the trip and play off a match against the Rutgers tennis team. Manager Wads worth has made out a schedule of five games, four of them to be played here. The most promising men are, Girting, Woods, Soler, Howell and Wads- worth, but only four will be taken on the trip. Of the above mentioned group the last three men are from last year's team. This week the team will go through a rigid prac- tice and will have the opportunity of receiv- ing Mr. R. C. Jones' coaching. The schedule is as follows : April 25, Rutgers at New Brunswick, N. J. May 16, Vermont at Schenectady. May 18, Williams at Schenectady. May 24, Massachusetts Aggies at Sche- May 30, Rutgers at Schenectady. CLASS ORGANIZATION AND COM- MENCEMENT. There is nothing that plays such an im- parfant part in the welfare of a college as a~umni support. During recent years Union has been fortunate in having material alumni supp0rt in the various projects which have promoted the \Greater Union\ movement. Again, the alumni as a body are present in almost incomparably _greater numbers at

; .' :;;;~:; \ .,, ,, ' ~ ' . ' 't ll, . ' ,'' .I 20 THE CONCORDIENStiS Commencement and other college functions than. six to eight years ago, and the grads manifest a continually growing interest in all college affairs and undergraduate activities. This admirable loyalty and sustained in- terest among our graduates is due almost wholly to their organization, by means of which each alumnus is made to feel that he still has some tangible, close connection with old Union. The younger gradtiate classes are organized with permanent class officers or an executive committee who keep members of the class in close touch with one another and with the college, through the mediums of correspondence, the Alumni Magazine and the ,Concordiensis. Is it not significant that it is in these or- ganized classes that the most co-operation, spirit and interest for the welfare of Union is shown? In view of the benefits to the college, to the class and to the individual, then, it is incumbent upon every Senior class to or- ganize under rthe Graduate Council plan before leaving college and it is advisable for Junior and even Sophomore classes to start their organization in order that they may start class records, files and develop a class system. The following are some suggestions for class organization taken from a pamphlet published by the Graduate Council. Study the Class Roll, learn all you can about the men, and pick out five for the Executive Committee. This is the most im- portant part of the job. Get those who will best supplement the Class Officers, who are ex-officio metnbers of the Committee. Some good counselors and some good givers are desirable. Prompt- ness is more i1nportant than nearby resi- dence. Carbon copies of comtnunications can easily be made for all the Comtnittee, and all sorts of Class questions have been satisfactorily discussed and settled by this method. If there have been factions, try to have them represented, bnt a void drones anyhow. If the Class has no President or Vice--President to appoint the Five, let its G. C. man do it. Notify the new Committee that the Class is organized under the G. 'C. plan, giving na1nes and addresses of the ,Officers and the Five. Also give list of deoeeased 1nembers whose relatives are ~nknown, and of class- mates whose addresses are doubtful, and ask aid. State the needs of the :Class in detail, and propose some pla:.n for raising the needful. Ask each Committee-man to send his suggestions or approval together with his contribution. Supplement this circular with personal letters. Follow up, until all have responded. Then send a circular to the whole Class. Tell about the organization, giving names of all on the new Executive Committee. Give list of deceased and other members concerning whom information is desired, or enclose such a list. Send blank for reply. Tell about the G. C. Class Records for the College Library, and enclose Record leaf, with large addressed envelope for its return. Give a few items of news a..nd ask for $2.00 for Class needs. Make a little list and send to each a personal letter asking for a larger sum. A few don'ts: Don't try to get the sarne amount from each member. Don't send circular after circular asking for money. Do all necessary dunning by real pe·rsonal letter. No imitations. Don't fail to send several non-begging comn1unications, reporting- progress and giving some College, G. C. or Class news. Don't do over-much cledcal work. It is cheap. Hire it. Don't think it is easy to enthuse the apathetic. Don't give up. Get something from every mother's son. Don't Lose Faith in Your Class. Go For Them. li ·~ r\ 1. <

li ·~ ,, ,; r\ I, ·ntE CONCORDIE:NSIS 21 \Jake\ Beaver has recently been suc- ceeded by ''\Dutch'' N a urn ann as the biggest man on the ''hill.\ While preventing yourself from becoming a miser, don't fail to remain an econotnizer. Dear Ciat, Do you think \Jingle\ will give us a bolt if we ask for it decently? \Soph.\ ~ Dear Soph, Do they serve ice cream in Hades? C1at. Send a \Clat\ to the Clatter column, it won't cost you anything. \Prexy\ says he doesn't think that his so-called vacation was altogether vacational. He's right it wasn't!! The Doll Girl sent representatives to watch baseball practice. N' est pas? Dear Clat, I swallowed a pin; what steps should I take to prevent ill effects? \F'rosh.\ Dear Frosh, Swallow the cushion. Most of the faculty members ailow their superior officers, as it were, to depart from chapel at the head of the column. Others don't ; I wonder why. SOME POINTS IN UNION'S HIS'l'ORY. The 'Tas,k of the Undergraduates is to Uphold this Record. U 11like tnany other colleges, Union Col- lege ~cam~e into being in response to a popular dernaN.d, the first petition being offered to the Assembly in 1779 from the .counties of Albany, Tyron and Charlotte. In 1782 another petition was offered by sor:Jl ewhat more than a thousand inhabitants of tb..e northern and western parts of the statoe for a college at Schenectady, then a town of 3,472 inhabitants. The final petition was offered to the Board of Regents, December 18, 1794 and was granted by the Boa.rd on February 25, 1795. Union was the first college chartered by the Regents in this state. It was the first college founded west of the Hudson River and the first undenominational college founded in the United States. It was speci- fied in the original petition that \a majority of tbe trustees should not be of any one religious sect.'' Tlte success of the college was assured from the first mainly because, originating in a p-oJJular demand, it had popular support behind it. By 1825 it had passed Harvard, Yale and Princeton and for nearly a quarter of a century held its place as the largest college in the United States. Whatever may have been done by the citizens of this Capitol district, acting as individuals or in a general movement, nothing in all the three centuries and more of its history has been so imp()rtant or so far reaching in its benefi- cieat effects as the action which resulted in the founding of Union College. How well it bas served what were the northern and western conn ties of the state is well known by some. It is too little known by many. For three-quarters of a century Union College was the goal of the ambitious boys of the farms and village homes of northern and w-estern New York, anci there they were ttain.e<l for service-some of them for great

, I ''i .:i ,. ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '' 22 THE OONCORDIEN'SIS service. In the class of 1800 was Gerrit Y. Lansing., for many years Albany's repre- sentative in Congress; in 1806, there was John C. Spencer, Secretary of War and of the Treasury; in 1807, was Joseph C. Yates:, Governor of New York; in 1809, was Gideon Hawley., the father of the public schools of this state ; in 1810, was Alfred Conkling, Congressman and Minister to M:exico-the father of Roscoe Conkling. Between 1815 and 1819 there were four boys sent out frorn Union who became United States Senators; Nathaniel Tallmadge, of New York; Richard Stockton, of New Jersey; Sidney Breese, Chief Justice and United States Senator from Illinois, and James A. Bayard, of Dela- ware. In the same class was Breckenridge of Kentucky; Alonzo Potter, Bishop of Pennsylvania and George Washington Doane, Bishop of New Jersey. The class of 1820 sent out Laurens P. H·ickock, afterwards President of Union; Taylor Lewis, the greatest c~assical scholar of his time i~ America; William Kent, the distinguished jurist, and William H. Seward~ Lincoln's Secretary of State. Then came Charles J. Jenkins, Governor of Georgia; Amasa J. Parker; Horatio Potter; Preston King, United States Senator; Ward Hunt,. Justice of the United States Supreme Court; Rufus Peckham; John Bigelow, Minister to France ; Robert Toombs, Secretary of State to the Confederacy; General Halleck; Ches- ter A. Arthur, President of the United States; Governors of Georgia, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, New York~ Massachusetts, Wyoming; senators, mem- bers of the cabinet, foreign ministers, ju?tices and representatives. The first presidents of the Universities of Michigan, Illinois, Kalamazoo College, Elmira, Vassar, Smith, Knox Colleges, Brooklyn Polytechnic, were Union College boys. Union has given preseiden ts to Princeton, Brown, Bowdoin, Rutgers, Madi- son, Lafayette, Jefferson, Franklin and MarshaH, Hobart, Kentu,cky, and to Union four of its ten presidents. Those who know the college best know best how well it deserves the gratitude and respect, as well as the affection, which thousands of its sons pay to it. Students from nineteen different states and from ten foreign countries are among our present undergraduates, but the great majority of the boys come from nearby homes. There is a eli entele of a million or more within a radius of fifty miles of Union; at least two hundred boys from these homes are now in the undergraduate classes and two hundred more in the professional schools which form part of the university. Union is destined to take a large place in the educational work of this country as the years go on. Already its electrical de- partmen. t holds a first place and the work of the other departments is not inferior to that done anywhere. It is the child of the· Capitol district. It is the mother of many of her distinguished sons. ADVANTAGES OF LIGHT. An Albany county farmer, returning home late at night, saw a light moving about the farmyard. When he investigated he found a neighbor's farm hand carrying a lantern. \What are you doing here?\ demanded the farmer. \Courtin' sir.\ ' \Cou·rtin'? Courtin' with a lantern? Huh, you fool, I never used a lantern when I went courtin' !\ \No sir,\ replied the farm hand, as he moved off, \ we can all see you didn't.\ GEMS FROM \LOUIE'~ MANN'S PHYSIOLOGY NOTE-BOOK. Tuberculosis is spread by two children using the same pencil, one of which has tuberculosis. The alimentary canal lies below the dia- phram a.nd coils itself around the stomach. .. .,, ~·.' .. • I , :. I '·'

j ? THE CONC.QRDIENSIS 23 The stomach is just south of the ribs and is part of the alimentary canal. Tuberculos~s may be caught by sleeping with him. WHE'N CHEER ON CHEER RINGS O'ER THE FIELD, AS ONE MAN WE'LL STAND. Baseball is here and the team is a crackejr- jack from aU indicati9ns as weU as from the ''Dope\ sheet. We the Students of Union College are going to do our part, by sttp- porting the team as a Union team should be supported. We will \ball\ our heads off to make sure that the team knows that vv-e are behind them. Have you ever noticed the team pick up after a real appeal fro1n the bleachers? Gee, it makes you fell like yuu were a part of the team. Fellows, we have so far this year made great improvements in our part of the working of the team and, we are going io be still better before I leave this institution or I miss n1y guess. We now have the rea 1 punch to our cheering but need a little more practise on one or two of the yells ()r rather correction for we have used them enough to know every little thing that goes with them. (George and Buck included in the little things.) I should like to see some of the ingenious men in College make up a yell or two that would be short and snappy and to the point. I mean something to be used in place of the \Ray Team\ that we have to use now. After the third game the new candidates will make public tryouts for the position of \Cheer Leader\ for next year. The men who l1ave an eye on the position better be- gin to get in practise for there are some funny little mishaps that come to one when you least expect it. The position next yeai is to have enlarged powers. It will carry with it the arrangetnents for Can1pus meet- ings, speakers and other things that malce for success. At present consideration is being given to the advisability of awarding a sweater for the labor. This has not heen finally decided upon yet but may be looked forward t.o in the near future. For the :right man a btg field is open and a lot can be accomplished by the whole hearted endeavor of the new leader. You fellows in ,College who seem to he too short or, for some other reason can not go out for the teatns, here is your chance, that is, .if you are of the stuff that is willin~ to sacrtfice pleasures and the little things that have to be given up .at different times during the year. In other words you will have to do just what the team has to do all the time. I will ask that ali the men from the Junior Class wl1o have any intention of coming out for ·•'Cheering\ to speak to me some- . ' tune about it. On with Baseball the sooner the better. -\Buck.\ DATE SET FOR RENDITION OF EWENS' PLAY .. On May 15 the Dramatic Club will give the play written by Harry Ewens. The play has been approved by the Faculty and promises to be a great success. Arrange- rrlents have not been made as yet for a theater. The members of the cast are work- ing hard in order to lea,rn their parts in such a short time. The following are the members of the cast: C. A. I<enworthy, '14; George Truex, '14; George Wadswotrh'l '14; H. C. Ewens, '14; P. C. Cleveland, '15; Walter Baker, '15; Ambrose Clark, '15; F. L. Smith, '15; G. F. Hanson, '16; C. D. Lowell, '16; M. C. Brunet, '16; I-I. Zimmer, '16; Howard Santee, '16; E. C. Brandow., '17. THE SECOND FRENCH REVOLUTION N apo1eon left in sole possession of Wash- burn Ha~IL Noted French leader deserted by faithful ( ?) subjects. Next?

I ·~ 24 THE CiONC 1 0RDIENSIS MALE '13 SPEAKS TO COSM'OPOLI- TA.N CLUB. The ·Cosmopolitan Club had its regular meeting Wednesday evening, April 22, in its rooms in South College. ''Charlie\ Maie gave an interest~ng talk. The regular busi- ness meeting of the club, at which officers will be elected for the ensuing year, \vill be held n e:xt month. BASEBALL TERM : c'Walked on High Balls .. \ A flower in the shape of an encouraging word or act, or a.s a compliment given while one is alive is of far more value to him than covering his casket with flowers when he is dead. It is all right to honor the dead in this way but a little 1nore connnendation given in. one's lifetime is always in orde·r. A COMMUNICATION From the National Collegiate Athletic Association. The following article is the report of a Committee 011 Baseball as adopted by the National Collegiate Athletic Association, D·ecember 30~ 1913. The recommendations of the cotnmi ttee are: First.-The strict enforcement of rule 58 of the Official Rule Book, which defines the coaching rules at first and third bases, ex- plicitly providing that \the coacher shall be restricted to coaching the base runner only, and shall not address remarks except to the base runner, and then only in words of assistance and direction in running bases. He shall not by words or signs incite or try to incite the spectators to demonstra- tions, and shall not use language which will in any n1anner refer to or reflect upon a player of the opopsite club, the umpire, or the spectators.\ Second.-T:he strict .enforcement of rule 21, par. 1, which explicitly provides that \under no circumstances shall the umpire pern1it any person except the players and substitutes in uniform and the manager of the team entitled to its use to be seated on a bench.\ Third.-The strict enforcement by the u1npire of tlle rules forbidding \blocking a runner,\ \prying a runner off the base,\ and the like, as unfair practice, and we ap- peal to student public opinion to condemn such trickery, making it impossible, even ,should it elude the vigilance of the un1pire. :Such sharp practice is explicitly prohibited by the rules, and an attempt surreptitiously to transgress them is as unsportsmanlike as it would be for a tennis player, hoping to escape detection, to deliver his service from an unlawful position. We recom 1nend further that, in pursuance of the spirit of the rules, boards of athletic \ :, ! • ~ ··l ,·'l I ' .,,' .. ·~ ' ·~ ''.) J

\ :, ! • ~ ··l ,·'l I ' .,,' .. ·~ ' ·~ .'.) J TEE CONOORDffiNSI\S zs conctrol and faculties of cotleges and uni- ve::rsities, banded t<Dgether to promote a .healthy growth and a wis:e control of .s.tuden~t athletics, adopt and enfor.ce the 1followi.ng specific regulations : First.-· The .catcher shall not, during aettJa'l play, sp-eak at all to the bats1nan, except where o~casion requires a bona fide word of caution, and in speaking to the pitcher he shall not use words reflecting, or ·ca1cu1'ated to reflect, upon the batstnan or anr member oif the opposing team. S.econd.-No ~nember of either team shall call or shout daring the game to any mem- ber of the opposing team, except to caution hbn against some danger, nor behave in any in<lecorous or ttnseemly manner. 'rhi.rd.--Ther-e shall be no oral coaching from the bench ... Pourth.-The so-ca1led ''encouragement of the pitcher\' from the outfield shall be st()pped, or at least minimized, since we believe that th'e shouting of rernarks ,in endless iteration is not only dis agreeable to the spectators, hut is disconcerting rather tha.n helpful to· the pitcher. In general, it an1 aunts n1erely to senseless noise, and is qu[te unworthy of college-bred men. What- ever \encouragetnent'' or \support\ the pitcher may ne-ed can be quietly given from the infield. I 8ifth.-The umpire shall warn any player vi()lating any of these rules, and on a second off-ense shall eKclude him from the game. :Sixth.-That in general the attention of stttdents be called to the itnportance of courtesy on the part of the hotne institution to the visiting teatn, a courtesy which will forbid such cheering-, singing, or chatter as aFe designed at: critical moments to \rattle'' the -visiting tea..m. A baseball g:an1e is a splendid contest of sl<ill betw-een two opposing nines, before an :academic throng of spectators ; it is not a ccntest hetwee:n a visiting team and a local team assisted by a disorderly rabble. It is delightful when, as often happens, a fine play by the v~isi ting -team is as heartily applauded as a similar play by the home team. To the end that these principles, if en- dorsed by this Associa tLon, be a real force and not a mere brutu1n fulmen, we recon'l- rnend that, if adopted, tlu. is report be printed in separate form, and co pies be sent by the secretary to the presidents, the deans, the athletic directors or sLn1ilar officers, the chair1nen of faculty C(nnmittees on athletic sports, and to the editors of undergraduate publications of all colleE;es and universities, and also to the leading preparatory schools, in the United States, with a formal request for action thereon, aall a report of such action to the secretary of the Association. -Louis :Bevi_er, Jr., Chairman. By way of explanation the committee further adds : \We do not think tlta t anything should be recomn1ened which would di111inish the virility of the game or lessen the scope of ind~ividual skill or of clever team work, but we earnestly contend that strategy must not deteriorate into trickerr and that the rules of the ganTe 1nust be observed, not only in :letter hut in spirit as \Well.\ PHI BETA KAPPA MEETING. The second meeting of the Upper Hudson Association of Phi BetGt Kappa, which was founded by Alpha of New York of Union College, will 'be held at the College on Friday evening, May 22. Several speakers of national reputation will address the meet- ing. The . details of the program are at present being arrangecl by the committee in charge. At Willian1s a new rule has b-een recently established to the effect that freshmen caps need not be worn afte1 Easter.

l:· j ' : . ~ I ' ' I : I ' :, ' ,, '·: 26 THE CONCORDIENS1IS A REBUFF. A rustic seat, A cool retreat, I. Down where a brooklet flows. A maiden fair, With pensie air, Quite often to it goes. I spy her there And, in despair, II. Thinking my fate quite sealed, I venture on Where she has gone, To boldness she may yield. III. Presumably to kiss The dainty miss! At least it is no harm. A haughty glance Checks my advance, And I remember that I am ' Overdue to rehearse an Oration to Micky Ann. -'15. WILL LECTURE TO SIGMA XI. Dr. Whitney of the General Electric Company will address the members of the local Sigma Xi Society at their next meeting to be held the first of May. His subject will be \Research\ as related to modern scien- tific investigation. Dr. Whitney is an ex- cellent speaker as well as authority on this subject, and a most interesting lecture is expected. Yale academic undergraduates have voted down the proposed honor system in exam- inations. A three-fourth vote of the total enrollment in the department- r 379- was necessary, and the vote stood 587 for and 355 against. The honor system exists in the Sheffield Scientific School. THE ORIGIN OF THE BLANKET. The ·cold winter of 1340 gave us the blanket. Its inventor, Thomas Blanket, was a Flemish merchant, settled in Bristol, and fallen from affluence to want. He and his wife, suffering from the intense cold by reason of scanty bedding and lack of fuel, searched for something to put on the bed to increase the warmth, and hit on a piece of rough, unfinished cloth that had been thrown to waste. Its success as a wann th giver suggested the manufacture of special bed covers of the same material, and these articles, to which he gave his own name, won him wealth and immortality. -London Chrinicle. By a vote of 279 against 118 the students at Williams recently went on record as being against woman suffrage. WELCOME VISITOR ARRIVES. ·The young and happy household of our beloved Charles T. Male, '13, was made glad in the superlative degree by the arrival of Charles T. Male, Jr., '35, who put in an ap- pearance Friday_, April 10. DELTA PHI DELEGATE. J. Gordon Gidley, '14, and Pedro Ferraz Netto, '14, left today as delegates for Alpha of Delta Phi at the annual convention of the fraternity. The convention is to be held at Philadelphia and will last the rest of this week. NEWS COMMITTEE APPOINTED. At the regular meeting of the Press Club on April 15th, Soler, '16, was appointed as chairman of the general news committee. Creble, '16, was appointed as Soler's as- sistant. During the past year both of these men have been generally active in the work of the club, and, under the advice of Dr. Hill, there is no doubt but what they will \make good\ in their undertaking. I { 'I ;_ I : .. ;, ''·

t, d ,I\: J n ' ··\-! ',f, ' I ~ '.'' .. ·_ l 'I ;_ .f } , a d b k : .. ' ·-~ ' ' ;. ··- N.M.READ P·U·:BLIC STENOGRAP-HER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Ra'tes to Students C~otrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. l'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;:::::=.=:;iiiiii:ii_., Makers -of Caps, Gowns and Hoods ·, ' i 1878 E. C. HARTLEY 1914 Oealer in Fine G·roceriies and Prov.isions Special Prices made for .goods in- quantities to CoHege F ratetnity Houses. 601•603 UNION STREET TELEPHONE 31. :11. W4tarlt DELICATESSEN \Joe\ caters -to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night ·One minllte from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church fo the American Colleges and Universities from 'P 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty HONE - 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand ·Higgins' ( I ~ Drawin~ Inks Eternal Writin~ Ink Engrossin~ Ink Taurine Mucila~e Photo Mounter Paste ., Drawin~ Board Paste Liquid Paste IL Office Paste Ve~!etable Glues, etc. ARE THE FINEST ANI BEST INKS ·AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smel1 ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS Clark Witbeck C I CHAS. M. HIGGINS & co . O. Manufactures The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. , Brooklyn, N. Y. VisL hn~­ Cards Weddtn~ Stahonery ~us1ne s Cards-LetterHeads Class Pins -Mono(rnms Crests , Coats of A rrns etc. DESIGNER,S .E NGf\AVE:\S P~INTEf\5 EMBOSSI:\S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZEltS

THE CONCORDIE.NSIS BARNEY'S Where Buerybod:J Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at - .. BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Correct Dancing Also the new dances Prof. Kilgallen's Private Dancing Classes Further informa,tion see Hand Book page 52 Yate's B:oat House The largest a.nd best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri· ate Parties only, in connection with house • - • - - • 29 Front Street Both Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Pricea JOHN WAGNER CO. 260~262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest dev,elopments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing • • · Furnishings · - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing -429 State St. Schenectady v. E. wae~c~-. Maua 1 .- Arcade Hal~ Near N. Y. C. Depot 'Phaae 2723·1 SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE •• CONCORDr\\ \ _,; ,;., :t ' __ ··! '- j ! } ' I I .I

,;., :t ... ! . '.··! } ' I I .I THE CONCORDIEN.SIS A Man!!s Smoike the w:o:rld· Over The iron- nerved bird- men who ride the \bucking bronchos of the air\- the braw:ny cow boys of the West-Uncle Sam·s sturdy Jaclt Tars\ \cowpunchers of the sean-in every calling that appeals to men of initiative and abillty -you'll find ·'t;Bull\ Durham, in fresh, hand-made cigarettes, the favorite smoke. \Bull'' Durham appeals to them not only because it is a superb tobacco, but because of its wonderful :flavor. Ever notice that peculiarly distinctive, rich, fragrant aroma that only .:'Bull\ Durham possesses? It i3 due to a generations-old process known only to the makers of •'Bull\ Durham. It is a unique factor in the world- wide success of this famous tobacco. 16 , GENUIN~ BULL- DURHAM _SM·OKING TO:BACCO (Enough /:Jr forty hancl-made cigarettes in each 5c sack) As ma11y cigarettes ore rolled from \Bull\ Durham in a year as all brands of ready-made cigarettes in this A:~Te far FREE IJook of 46 paper3 1 • with each Sc aack country combined- and the sales are still. growing. Get \the Makings\' today-~'roll yourownJ' -and obtain last· tng, healthful ~njoyment. An Illustrateef Booklet, F R E E show1ng how to \Roll · Your Own,\ and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U.S. on post11.l request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Dttt\ham N. C, Roorn 1210. THE AMERICAN TODACCO COMPANY ! : : : : ,: ' ! . m11111111111 H 11\IIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIIJIIIUI 1209

THE CON·CORDIENSIS SAUER BROTHERS Successors to Schenectady Book Bindery and Printing Company Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made to Order .. . 316 State Street-.Phoue 2799~W. Special Rates to Students HOTEL AN:D RESTAURANT BroadwaJ and Maiden Lane GENTLEMEN ONLY 25oROOMS Ladies• Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty .. five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler,, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us .. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With Over too,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Ageota for Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. ' 1 L'ENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. ·D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch P·arisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2108-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flo wen we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec- tady hy patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Stor• 699 AlbaD7' Street Phoae 3628-L Greenhouae 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J 'Jutnn N attnuul ilauk l'tllrtttttabg, N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER•S PATRONIZJCRI I . . l ·.·.· .•. ' .·:·. l' '.·., ·i ~ ·.J

,., ' ' ' l ....•. ' .·:·. l' .·., ·i i .! ·~ ( '; ·L . ' THE C·O·NCORDIENSIS Engrav.ing a·:nd Emb·ossing Lowest prices consistent \With high class Vt()rk, will be quoted to college students, from now until ce>Rlmencement. !U,nion Book Co., Inc. 257 STATE STREET THE TENEYCK Leading Hoteil of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FR:ED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita's Orchestra SCHENECTADY, 'N. Y .. FURNTURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, '10, '11, '12 and 1913 Best D.ance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 34-83- W Only the Best Service. None Better f<lr Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service .. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and fro1n social a.nd business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. AnJ time. Shannon & Son 118 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE T:HE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office., PA:TRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

, I ! t ; I ; ' ! ' I , i ' ,, ·I , ' THE CONCORDIENSIS ''Balmacaans\' f:or Rain Coats or Slip :Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready :for your inspection J. J. HILLMAN 617 .State Street · The Students' Problem Solved The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building '·On your way to the Post Office\ SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone ~140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn- ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schene ctady lluminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU S..A. W IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \ I I . ~ : i' :. ' . j I I i , I f

. j I I i . I . f ! ' i I THE CONCORDIEN.SIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MOE DEWILDE~ Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks .and Leather Coods , 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart· McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store Morris Drug Co. 26-28 No. Pearl St. Albany Agency for Whitman's \Our Business is Growing\ Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. \Root for Jack\ FISHER'S 2nd SHIRTS 50c 112 No. Pearl St. Albany DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 and 42 Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

i . I I :I . I .I THE CONCORDIENS·IS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music Furnished for all Occasio:ns Telephone .2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest caah prices Quick - Active -· Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros. • Sweaters ~ 310 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. .PAINTS, ·OlLS ~ Dealers in all kinds of Wax Poliahel 212 So. Centre St. A USQUARE 'DEAL 99 for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We · guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such. article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pau lng . IOS .. 52() 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalo~ue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES S CigaRrs • Ph Ice Cream200 U . SoSdta The Best Made Shoes in the World ·t. egiS . armacy' . . . DIDO . • . They wear longer-they cost less. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY Toilet Articles 206 So. Centre Street. Near State iAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ••coNCORDY .. '.: ; ~ ' I ... ·

I .. THE CONCORDIENSIS, W4t ifamptuu Albany THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line o.f Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1850 i!t. J. Wijnru JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS ALBANY. N. Y.

Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you • . know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells .. the right kind; and naturally must sell the right kind of -·- --- ----·- - other things to wear too. If you look us over a little ~ I we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press ...

PVBLISHED·WEEKLY BY· THE STVDE NTS • OF· VNION- C OLL EG E Vol. XXXVII To press forward under his burdens, to guide himself in the night, to retrieve his falls and his failures, to escape despair even in death, man has need of hoping always and sometimes against all hope. -Charles Wagner. APRIL 30, 1914· • • No~ 22

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES Al..,EXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Course!~ leading to tlte degrer4.'! o1 1\.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. Fren'(h and German e1re in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Coul'8e leading to t:lt-e degree of Ph. ll. LATIN -SciENTifiC CouRsr·:-This course offers Latin without Greek, for wltich is substituted addi- tional work in modern langnages and science. 3. Course leadin&' to tlte degree of B. J. SCIEN'l'IFIC CouRsE-This c<:>ttrse is based upon the study of mathematics and th~ sciences. 4. Course leading to 1b.e degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering' education, con1prising mathematics, tne 'lciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of tbe pro- , fe~~sion, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING Co\URS:E-This differs from the general engineering course in sub~tituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EtECTRlCAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intt.\ndeo to give a broad ar1<i thorough en~i11eerint' education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 3o Courts~I'J le-ading to g:radunte «Jegree1.1. CouRSE LEADING 'l'O DEGREE oF l\1. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures. laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTl~ALL Catel'er Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our speC\ial Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c COURSE ~~.AIJI:NG TO DEGRE~ OF M. S. E. E.- This course of oiLe year of graduate study consists of lectures, labmratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEA.DJNG ro DEGREE oF PH. D.-This course of two years. of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degnee of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogtxes or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE I ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WxLtrs G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER., J. Nitw'roN FntROJ President. Dean. ALB ANY LA V\' SCH 00 L- This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It otCcupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its· use. The co11rse leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: ~1atriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other infonnation, address: j()EN C. WA'tSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven man ths each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalo~tle giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. .. Everythin~ for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Jttst Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THlil •~ CONCORDY\' r

I ! I I r THE CON·CORDIEN8lS Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical @• or In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re Hcramming\ for an exam- When you're '• boning' • for • a QUIZ- When your making up that H d\ • '' con ttton - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of ~•Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly_.... THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c h e e r i n g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch., any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by . - . . General Electric Company Schenectady, • New York Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12,50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Sho~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N.Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CON·CORDIENS1IS ''Th·e House of Fine Clothes'' The Season's Smartest StyleS Now Ready at Babbitt's Season after season this store has satis- fied the growing demand for fine cl~othes throughout this tri-city territory. Babbitt's can satisfy your most exacting apparel requi.rements in Rogers-Peet make and other high-grade clothing at from $12.50 to $45.00. ' Babbitt & Co. Jlultt 14uur4 Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. ''Albany's :Greatest Clothiers'' 451-453 BROADWAY SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 -AT- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANB A~BANY, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N.Y. ~-----------------------------------------------·-- I.A. 'I' YO'U BA. W IT IN THJD \ CON CORDY \' I ,I ,I I.

I ,I ,I I. THE CON·COR.!DIEN1SIS -· . Tuxedo A Hit with the Hit-Makers FRED. CLARKE H UNDREDS ·of the snappiest ball players in the•.co·untry- the clean-cut athletes who provide Americans with their greatest out- door relaxation-enthusiastically en- dorse Tuxedo. This is the kind of endorsement that carries a convinc- ing punch. These men know that Tuxedo is a mild, pure tobacco, which can be smoked all ,day with pleasure. Tux- edo cannot bt\te the tongue; it burns freely and smoothly, giving a cool, sweet smoke. • c I, d advise eoery hall- player to smoke Tuxedo. I do, alwaJJs. I know of no other tobacco .that gives the &atisfaction that Tuxedo does.'' The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo is made from the finest, mildest, leaves of high-grade Burley tobacco, so treated under the fa- mous original \ Tuxedo Process'' that it burns slow and cool, with a delightful flavor and aroma. The ''Tuxedo Process'' makes it impossible for this perfect tobacco to bite or sting the most delicate throat or tongue. Tuxedo has many imitators-in outward appearance. It has no equal in the pipe or cigarette. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch. 5 Famous green tin. 10 inner-lined with c with gold lettering. c moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket In Glasa Humidors, SOc ancl90c FREE Send us 2 cents in sta. mps for po~t­ age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Addres1 THE AMERICAN ';l'OBACCO COMPANY Room 1209 111 Fifth A vep,ue New York 1210 JIMMY ARCHER ., Tuxedo is my idea of a good smoke in every way- coolness, mildness, purity. Tuxedo is a winner.\ JACK NciNNIS u Tuxedo gives a cool, mil~ smoke, and neoer tlffects the wind. Tuxedo is a tobacco that's always good. '' ~.L 11trL·

THE CON·COR:blEN!StS Home~made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Ro,bin TEA ROOM SPBCIALtSTS Ji Steuben Street; iog No. Peatl Street Clark & McDonald The 70 Year Old Jewelry and Optical Hou&e 23 3 State Street Schenectady F. W. Miillin J • F • Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mullin Oiuuit & Olnmpauy ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS; PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations; Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper -.. - .. ·--- .......... _ - - . . . 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany; N~ Y. Are you undecided as to Jttiur summer vacation work? Let me tell yo11 how you can earn good money by ba~dling o11r line of tip-to·date bouseliold necessities which sell readiiy and at a larJte profit. Exclusive territory:: WRITE TO-DAY: R. W • ABELL, State Agent 920 Iriing A venue Syracuse; N. Y. Do Your Glasses Stay Put? .. ·.. . . 'i ... ' tl• ~ ... ~· ' + • 0 • , \\ ; • ~ If not, have you tried the \Comfort Mounting?'' Order it for your new glasses at have it attached to your present lenses .. . ··~\ ~ . . ... . ~ ... . .. ,, .. . ,. - . .. _.,. ....... ·' ~ .... . -~··· ... ' . . .... Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St.~ Albany; N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGB SARD · .; • · Presidertt . . . ' ... •, . . .. . . . MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.wTreaa. Main office, 4 7 State St. T. I. Van ANTWERP,.. Vice-President ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, .; General Coun•el Park Branch, 200 Washington ·~------~~---------------------------------~·~·~·· ~·------~-··~·--·~-~-·~····~ .. ~~--~ SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE 1 ' CONCOHDY\ '} ' ' j ., . ,., ' ' '~ !'· !, . i

' j ., •\ ' ' THE C.ON·CORDIENSIS Vlsit Our Victor Parlor i :' We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee : i ST:EINWAY WEBER Cluet·t & Sons ·· AND ONE PRI•CE PIANO HOUSE 508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y PIANOLA PIANOS Are You Progressing?, ulf It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' Are you in need of shoe repairing? • If.so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires I!J Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street F 0 d S · T 1 h 34S 6 229 State Street 26 Stores ree r er ervtce e ep one H 0 L TZ M A N ' s LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past · 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn All styles and leathers • HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Scll•nectady's Lartest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE C~ON·CORDIENSlS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., -corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles. Get Tomorrow's Style T o·day i·n a , PRINTING Regal Shoe THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you . AND ON TIME will see to-m<>rrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN ~rqrurrta!ly i\rt Jrrna Authorized Agent J. H, COMO, Prop. 4.51 State St. Schenectady . Z06 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''15 Seconds From The Blue Gate''-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work <:alled for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE T.BLEPHONE 4258-W SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ I \ \;' ' j ',{ t ,. ·.•

i . 'j ',{ f ,. THE CON·CORDIENSIS N.M.READ Puauc sTENOGRAPHER :. Ntm l!ftu.bnmt t;nttl Roo~ 74 Parker Building. Special:iRates to Students '~ Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. :Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods .31. AJ. W4rarlt DELICATESSB,N ''J '' th · · d t B ·k ,· . oe caters to . e stu ·en . rea - ' : fast ·between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church To the American Colleges and Universities from 'P 298· W HONE - the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners \ Magic Electric Regina Elec:tric Regina H·and Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware .Store Higgins' ( I ~ Drawing Inka Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste I Drawing Board Paste I Liquid Paste l Office Paste V e,Zetable Glues, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so :efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufacture~ Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. --------------------------------~~-----.~~~------------------------ Fellows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS ;Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and ·Collars,. Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Visthn~ TELfPHoNt Cards z 6 '' w Wedd,n~ Stahonery '2us1ne. s Cards·LeherHeads Class Pins-Mono(rams Crests, Coats Qf Arms etc. J)ESIGN£1\S ' .[ NGR_AVEJ\S Pf(tNTE:f\3 f:MSOSS~\-S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S' PATRONIZERS

THE C~ON·CORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE Boys, now's the time to ''Go Fishing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a Good Outfit insures you against the petty .anoyances and m!eans Good Luck. We have a Splendid Line to show you-· Call in Bristol Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trou.t Flys .and Bait Everything for the Fisherman ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHO.P S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay t>y him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 190~ 1012 D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S College Representative 1907 1913 '1908 1914 I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. ''Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaunt, 136 State St. Gazette Building ············· ···-··@:,4 no aNeW ARROW Jf'otchCOLLAR Cluett. Peabody & Co •• Inc. Maker• SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \ . . . :} .! . ' \ :· . . I·' •. l l . I i I ,' ~

'' ,, l l . I i I ,' ~ Concordiensis VOL. 37 AP:RIL 30, 1914 NO. 22 UNION TROOP ANSWERS THE CALL TO ARMS One Hundred and Fifty Strong Rally Around Stars and Stripes Whether or not \Heine\ Faust could fore- see the commotion which he was to produce by the organization of some ten or fifteen of his comrades into military formation ilast week is not known, as General Faust has not been interviewed on the subject, but the fact remains that he got what he asked for when he ordered Chief Musician Lester to blow \fall in\ on the campus the other night. En- sign Smith bore the colors at the head cf the column until mobilization was complete, when he transferred the honor to his assistant,, who bore himself bravely throughout the tiresome march. There is very little to guess as to what the outcome would have been if the \troop'\ had met with armed resistance or if any insult had been f1 ung at their colors, and it is for- tunate, indeed, for Mexco that she didn't hap- pen to be in Schenectady that evening. The line of march was mainly as fol:l()WS : N ott Terrace to Liberty to Clinton to Union to Jay to Franklin to Center to Lil>erty, through Proctor's Arcade, up State to Jay, thence to Union and to .the Payne Gate, where \Home Sweet Home\ was rendered before the dismissal was sounded. The hour was young and the great num- ber of street urchins which crowded around and formed in the rear of the \regulars\ was enormous. No great encounters took place, and the few skirmishes, though exciting, were not disastrous. The exact results in lives lost are as follows : Killed, o; wounded, o. The \general\ considers this to be quite a victory. This is the largest demonstration which has taken place since the noted pajama parade on one of the balmy nights of last spring ,and it is hoped that the idle fancy of the \studes\ will not allow them to stay dormant for an- other year before some such demonstration is aroused to furnish an outlet for pent-up feelings. Among those whose appearance best prom- ised for them positions in the war, which now seems imminent, are: \Bence\ Page, cavalryman; \Shad\ De LaVergne, drummer, and \Hoke\ Hokerk, cook. If the troop should be called out, there is no doubt but what these veterans would serve nobly in these respective capacities. If they are called out-good-night, Mexico! AN ODE TO A LID Oh, how I love that cap S() green, Topped with a cherry brig-bt and red, Which sits upo~ my woolly bean, A shelter to my empty head. Alas ! the sixteenth day of May Will take from me my Irish lid And leave exposed this bnnch of hay, Which used to be serenely hid.

12 THE CONCORDIEN1SIS So, like the creme de menthe so bright, Ah, little cap of emerald hue, You've been a skypiece just and right, A partner, friend and comrade true. As long as I can smoke a \Fat No matter in what land I roam, I'll ne'er forget that freshman hat That used to hide my fuzzy dome. Knot, '17. ENGLISH CLUB RENDERS P·LA Y AND HOLDS INITIATION The third annual play of the English Club was held Wednesday eyening, April 22nd, in Washburn Hall. \Bird and Superbird\ was the name of the play, written and acted by the n1embers of the club. The cast was as follows: Dr. Nott ........... George Wadsworth, '14 John Howard Payne ........ Dr. S. P. Chase The Devil .................. Dr. E. E. Hale The Superbird .......... , .. A. L. Hawley, '14 The Raven ................ T. L. Ennis, '14 The Skylark .......... L. De La Vergne, 't 4 Cock Robin ................ G. E. Wisewell Chanticleer ................. C. N .Waldron The Wild Duck .............. F. T. Dawson The Blue Bird .................... M. King The story of the play concerns chiefly Dr. Nott and John Howard Payne. After Dr. N ott tries to teach the latter a little Greek, but does not succeed, the two visit the land of the birds and talk with the inhabitants. Having composed a Great Bird Drama, they visit hell, where they persuade the devil to initiate a few juniors into the English Club. The play ends with the initiation of Walter C. Baker, Edward P. Culver, Thomas A. Dent, Harold Delchamps, James Fitzgerald, Austin G. Martin and William W. Wait. The play, with its many puns and clever thymes, was thoroughly enjoyed. DOCTOR KELLOGG TALKS TO CLASSICAL CLUB On Tuesday evening, April 2tst, Professor Kellogg addressed the Classical :Club on Horace's third ode of the second book, which is called \The Most Ancient Mariner.\ Dr. Kellogg dealt with the vast amount of ma- terial for thought that the ode offers in a manner clear and interesting to the students. The next meeting of the club will be on May 2nd. It will be held in conjunction with the Agora Society Convention. The Agora Society is a high school classical club. Most of the Latin and Greek students from the hill will probably attend to listen to what is ex- pected to be an excellent program. Besides Union; Williams, Columbia and Brown have all had student demonstrations on the war question so far. TENNIS TEAM WINS FROM RUT- GERS NET-MEN Although rain prevented the baseball team from playing at Rutgers last Saturday, the tennis team managed to play five matches be- fore they were forced by the April showers to cease operations. Of these five matches, the Garnet team took three, thereby winning the day. The whole team was there with the goods, and \Wally\ Girting showed up ex- ceptionally well. THE JOYS AND SORROWS OF THE SECTION GANG (Once More Spud and Pete Hold Winning Cards.) \Pete do you realize that time is getting mighty short? Why, we'll be leaving now in about a month and a hatf.\ \Well what of it?\ \Oh nothing, except we've got a few scores to settle yet, according to my idea, and I've got a hunch that we cart kill about three birds with one stone just about now.\ \What's the big game ?\ \Well we can set up Wise boy's room, prove an ala bi, pull the j ttniors into it, rake the 'Concordy' into the discussion, and-wellt that'll be three birds: Wiseboy, junior class ,· ' . ' ·f

,· ' . ' ·f THE ·GONC.ORDIENSIS 13 and that little shrimp that writes us up in the 'Concordy.' What do you say?\ \Good Spud! Do you know how we 'can get into Wiseboy's room at night?\ \No; that's what gets me.'' \Well I can help out on that. I know a window in the basement that's always <Un- locked.\ \W isie' s room isn't in the basement, you poor boob.\ ''Hist, fond one, there's a trap door in 'Garry's' room.\ \Right you are, Pete; what time is it?\ \Eleven-thirty and all's well. Shall we do the deed now or await the mystic hour of twelve?'' \The quicker the sooner ; bring your flash- light.\ As they made their way to the red build- ing, Pete puffed away in silence on a \Fat while Spud chuckled to himself between the puffs of \free Velvet\ smoke which curled from the old corncob. The window was un- locked, as usual, and the trap door was easily pried up enough to allow the overfed carcass of our fat freshman hero to squeeze throu.gh with comparative ease. As they ascended the stairs, Pete stopped short and uttered a warning hiss. He had heard a noise in Wiseboy' s room at this hour! They removed their shoes and proceeded slowly to the door. Spud monopolized the crack in the door for several seconds before he stepped aside, his doughy flanks trembling with internal laughter. \Take a look at that, Pete!\ \The 'sophs' beat us here; that's hard luck. I recognize 'Coffin-tack,' but who's the guy with the check cap over his face?\ \Oh that's 'Hard-as-nails'; let's see what they're doing.\ A moment's silence. \Well Spud, what's up?\ Spud answered by pushing in the door, much to Pete's horror . The \sophs\ crouched back. \Up to you tricks, eh, 'Coffin-tack?'\ ''Who's business is it, 'Pot-gut'?\ \Well don't .try to pull a bluff you're trying to get your French papers out of that desk.'' ''He wouldn't give 'em to us,\ put in \Hard- as-nails,\ ''besides, what have you darn fresh- men got to do with it? What are you doing h ?\ r .ere, anyway . Spud put up a good front. \Don't come any closer; we're here to make you work. If you won't work we'll peach!'' \Suppose we work on you, 'Push-in-the,.) face?' '' \Hard-as-nails\ was grinning con- fidently. Pete came to the rescue. \Well if you get by with it, boys' there's about twenty more freshmen waiting for you outside.\ The \sophs\ looked more serious. \What must we do?\ This from the silent ''Coffin-tack.'' \Well first,\ said Spud, \stack all these chairs up on that platform and don't stack 'em too neat, either. Make it snappy.\ The ungainly pair went to work, while the freshmen lit up and puffed away. The first task being finished, the floor was carpeted with French exercises. In this Pete assisted, while Spud kept his weather eye on the \sophs\ so as to he ready for a scrap. He was also making a plan as to how he and Pete could escape in advance without letting it be known that they really had no re-enforce- ments. \That looks pretty good,\ he finally said. \Now you fellows bust the desk while Pete and I go get the gang to come up and inspect the job. If you haven't got that desk busted when the gang comes up-good-night!\ Pete caught the hint and followed his fat room,mate quickly down the steps. As soon as open air was reached the pair \hit the grit\ good and hard for the sections. \Well Pete, we killed four birds instead of three,\ gasped Spud between the breaths. \I say five, mate.\ ~~How so, kid?\

' , I . I 14 ''fHE ·CON·CORDIENSIS \Wiseboy marks us in Chapel, doesn't he?\ ELE.CTRICAL DEPARTMEN·T RE .. ''Yes, what of that?'·~ \Here's his book. j' CEIVES NOTED STUDENT Truly the fan1e of Union is world-wide. ''Sufferin' cats! [ 'had twenty-one llolts !\ \Same here.'' PROHIBITION CLUB MEE'i\ F·.QR DISCUSSION The Prohibition Club held its regttlar· meet- ing in Silliman Hall last Friday night. A chapter of \Socia~ Welfare and tfl.e Liquor Problem\ was discussed. By an overwhelrn:ing vote, the students of Hamilton College llave voted to al>e]ish In- terscholastic Week. The objection:a \ble as- pects of the week w.ere its expense, its incon- venience and its uselessness. Dear Mr. Con cordi ens is : Last week Professor Nagahama of the electrical engineering department ·of the J apanes:e Imperial College at Port Arthur registeved here as a graduate :student in our electrical school. This is especially grati- fying to us for two reasons. The first, that Professor N agahama was intending to study abroad and was attracted to Union by our merits aJone, and the second, that a recog- nition of our efficiency by the progressive colleges of the Orient is in itself a tribute to our worth. Let us hope that Mr. Naga- hama's sojourn with us will be so enjoy- able and profitable that it will win for \Old Union\ many new and loyal sons from the Island of the East. The squirrels and t,he bears (Lnd all those little birds that lie dormant in the cold, cold winter generaUy come out in the bahny spring months just as the April showers set themselves about the task of bringing May flowers. Now, with me its different. Sometimes I come out early, and at other times late, but this year I'm going to strike a happy medium. So tell the \studes\ that I'll be with you on or about the first of June. This will enable everyone to finish looking me over by the Fourth of July. I'm going to sh()w you so1ne real stuff this time-brainy stuff. Besides, I'1n going to make you jus.t naturally crack your sides with rn erry ha-has 'till you'll almost wish I had never cotne 01.1t-I'll be th.ai good! \Heinie\ is reading my pr<>of now, and what a critical eye that man has got! Why if one of th~ letters in a wireless n1essage got cro.oked in the air, that guy would detect it as it pa..ssed over his head. As a result of this keen-eyed monster's work, I feel all cut up just now. Hoping that you are the same, Yours truly, 19 15 I j . I

I j . I li!J'g, . -'IVa . lJJ.[(i THE CONCORDIENSIS Gt Lt8 . . l5 LIFE-WORK CONFERENCE . . ALUMNI NOTES ~~~ff'r. The Upper N·ew York Life-Work Con- Born.-A son to James S. Warren, 05, of ference of College Men was held at Colgate St. Louis, on Marth 12, 1914. College on April 24,. 25, 26, The purpose Born.-A daughter to Dr. Williams Faust, of the convention was to :g-ive spiritual aid ~09, of Washington, D. C., on January 19, to those men who are con:te.m plating making 1914. the ministry, Y. M. C. A. work or sociaf John_ Mortimer Minuse, Union '12, is work their life occupation. Luther Hagar completing his course in the Harvard Uni- was the onify Union ~au who attended the versity School of Forestry, at Petersham, meetings atld he found the:m very inspiring Massachusetts. Recently he won a prize and uplifti:m_g. Among tb:e noted speakers for the best report on the injury done to at the convention were Professor Shailer sapling pines by gray birch sprouts. Mathews, University of Chicago; Dr. E. B. D. K. Hutchins, 'l3, of New York City, Bryan, Colgate University; Mr. E. N. attended the meeting of the Graduate Coun- Huntress, Y. M. C. A., Pittsfield, Mass.; cil, held Saturday afternoon in Washburn and Mr. C. K. Ober, Fell:owship Secretary of Hall. the International Cotnmittee .. After a sleep of two years duration, inter- fraternity baseball at Columbia has awakened and a very lively schedule is being carried out. ..., • Did you watch this space? Thai:\ s right, my boy! Don't miss a thing That will give you joy. In 1 ast week's space We told, I think, That there's a test For those who drink. In this week's issue All you'll see Is tkat the words AreP G-- If you can't tell What this stands for, Watck the space And learn some mo-re! The sophomores at Williams recently won a debate over the 1917 men in favor of early fraternity rushing. . ELECTRICALS ENGAGE IN NA- TIONAL GAME Mr. Upson Shows Too Much Voltage for Junio·rs. A baseball garn.e filled with many errors and a few brilliant spots was played last Monday on the campus. The opposing teams were made up of recruits from the junior and senior electrical classes with Mr. Upson pitching for the 1914 men. Luther Hagar caught a good game for the seniors. The Junior battery consisted of Hokerk and Wood, both well known on the gridiron but rather unfamiliar -vvith the diamond. The gatne, being a free performance, was wit- nessed by quite a number of spectators, among the most noted of whom were Dr. Berg and the Misses Tuper. Mr. Lee um- pired. The contest, however, amused the participants to a much greater degree than it did those who watched from the sidelines. Five innings were played, the outcome being in favor of the Seniors, 7 to 2. Several games of a similar nature are being planned for the near future.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. J, Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSIST ANT EDITO·R-IN -CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, 'IS, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDI'l'OR Walter C. Baker, 'IS, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, 16 N. A. Finch '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS ]. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapmatt, '17 W. M. Gilbert,, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, 17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. Rusiness Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHENJ.tCTADY ART PRESS :206 So. Cent~e Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WHEN SHALL IT CEASE? This is a day of arbitration, where arbi- tration is possible. It is a day of moral sua- sion, provided all persons concerned in any particular cause are open-minded and willing to see all sides of the question at hand and to act with justice toward those opposing them as nearly as justice can be approached. We are no longer ruled by· violent and over-ex- cited mobs, who, while attempting to force justice upon friend and foe alike, force upon these friends and foes only the personal opin- ions of strong, and very often fanatical, lead- ers. The college is the place where these policies should be practiced to the greatest extent and with the best results. The college is the place where men should learn, above all things, to set aside seditious acts of a violient nature and to fight their battles with their brains. Why, then, can such a thing happen as did happen last week, namely, the upset- ting of an instructor's recitation room? Some claim that experience showed arbitra- tion to be useless in this particular case, be:- cause the underclassmen had failed in a just cause by attempting to reason a matter out with this particular instructor. As to this, is it the place of an underclassman to dictate to a f acuity member? Do the freshmen, ill- experienced as they are, mete out justice to our college community as they see fit? Do the sophomores, just beginning to realize the relative value of things about college, tell each man about him just what he should do in order to stand in the good graces of all alike? If this is the case, then why have we a Terrace Council and why do we elect to it each year men whom we think and feel and know have the interest of our college at heart -men in whose hands we are willing to en- trust the supervision of our major affairs? It is not the place of a freshman to deal out justice; it is not the office of the sopho- more to distate to his superiors! No man acting as an individual has a right, moral or legal, to pass sentence upon any other man and to execute this sentence to his own satis- faction! There are too many courts of ap- peal to make the action of such men j ustifi- able, and our candid opinion of the act pre- viously spoken of is that it was a shame and a disgrace, and that the wiser heads in our upper classes should see that such perfor- mances cease or know the reason why. Since we have condemned the action taken .; I .. , I· ;

I .. , THE ~OON·CORDIENSIS 17 by certain men, it would probably be best for us to design a better course of movement if such another grievance should arise between instructor and students. As a first resort the class should choose several of its calmest mem- bers and arrange a meeting for them with the instructor. Some kind of an understanding should be reached through this procedure, but it not, we should appeal to the Terrace Council, who would probably settle the matter satisfactorily. If, however, this is not the case, we still have Dr. Richmond to go to for advice as to the best means of further proce- dure. When we have tried all of these things, we have done all that can be done through arbitration, and if we fail in our purpose it is about time for us to consider whether or not the supposed injustice is really such a monstrous one as it at first appeared to be. In no case should an act of violence be com- mitted, and in no case should an underclass- man assume the right to dictate to any mem- ber of the faculty. There are probably men in college who do not share our resentments. If so, we will be glad to hear from them, and will publish their side of the question as readily as we publish our own, so spea~ up. CLEAN ATHLETICS In the April 23rd issue of the C oncordiensis there appears a communication from the N a- tiona! Collegiate Athletic Association which deserves special notice. Union College ath- letics have always been, and we hope will al- ways be, clean athletics, and in order to make them everything which college athletics should be, we must live up to these recommendations, not only in outward actions, but in spirit, as well. In doing this to the best of our ability, those ,engaged in active work on the diamond have an important part to play, but a large share of the burden falls directly upon those who look on fr.orn the bleachers. It is certainly our duty to give our athletic opponents the advantage of the greater de- gree of hospitaHty possible, an~ we can do this by seeing that the spirit of these recom- mendations is carried out both on the bleach- ers and on the diamond. Professionalism has brought into practice certain things which are very noticeably unworthy of college-bred men, such as attempts to \rattle\ members of the visiting team or the failure to applaud ex- ceptionally good work on the part of the visit- ing team. We must eliminate this defect from collegiate basebaU before we can proclaim it free from the taint of professionalism ,and it is the duty of every college to see that these recomn1endations are lived up to. Unless they are, we cannot truthfully assert that our athletics are altogether clean. In physical prowess, Union has usually excelled; in clean- liness and hospitality we have never been sur- passed. Let us not be backward in this. It is for the good of our college, whose honor must be upheld at any cost. DEBAT'ERS WORK TONIGHT They Hope to Gain the Dec~ision. Tonight the debating team-Coulter, Blod- gett, Jacobs and Sternfeld-meet the repre- sentatives of New York University in what promises to be the final debate of the year. The subject will again be the minimum wage question, and the debaters feel that they are thoroughly conversant with every phase of the question and should, therefore, gain the decision. They have all debated at least twice before on this subject. Professor McKean, to whom the team is especially indebted for his labors in its behalf, expects to accompany the men.

18 THE CO·NCO&D.IENiS,~S ON THE HILL Last Saturday night the Signa Phi Fra- ternity .gave a formal dance at their house on Library Lane. The patronesses were Mrs. Dr. Pearson, Mrs. Boyles and Mrs. Geo. W. Featherstonhaugh. On Monday night, April 20, the Chi Psi Fraternity gave a smoker to its Alun1ni. In spite of the incJe,ment weather a ]:arge number attended and an enjoyable evening was spent. Saturday afternoon the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity lost a very interesting baseball game to the Kappa Alphas by the score of 9 to 6. The game was played on the old diam.ond and the lineup was as follows : PHI GAMS KAPPS Jackson ............ c. . . .......... Kirku p Jones ............... p ............ Naylon Galbraith .......... 1st .......... H. Brown Loughlin .......... 2nd .......... Sherman Schuyler .......... 3rd ............ Coleson Ketcham .......... s s .. o ••••••• F. Brown Tiedeman ......... 1. f ............. Glenn Streeter ........... c. f ............... Carr Emerling .......... r. f ........... Godfrey On May 8th the Phi Gamma Delta Fra- ternity will give a big reception and dance in connection with the fraternity convention which will be held here May 8, 9 and 10. Delegates will be present from Syracuse, Cornell and Colgate. The dance will be held after the dual track meet with Rensse- lear which will take place in Troy. There are many arrangements for dances under way in the :fraternities on the \hill\ that have as yet, not been completed. In all probability most of the frivolities will take place on the evenings of the afternoons when there are home baseball games. There are five home games in May and June, the first one in May with Hamilton on the 9th. On Tuesday night, May 5th, the Union College Classical Club will hold a joint meeting with the two clubs of the Sche- nectady High School, namely the Agora Club and the Aeneadae Club. The purpose of this m~eting is to stimulate interest in the clubs and to promote a closer bond of friendshi::p between the m,embers of both institutioas. The meeting will be held in the High School auditorium and Professor John I. Benn~tt will deliver a short address after whit:b refreshments will be served in the lower rooms of the High School building .. Guthman (in German class)-.· A man's in·· telligence is measured by the convulsions of his bra in. Dutcl1y-l judge your brain has an en- tire lack of such gymnastics ! DRAMA.'1IC CLUB· BECOMING PER- FECT THROUGH PRACTICE The Dramatic Club rehearsals have been progressing very well and from all appear- ances th.e play promises to be a great suc- cess. Th~ manager is trying to arrange to give the :J>lay on Friday night, May 15, at Holyoke, Mass. This trip would certainly be very enjoyable and would give the mem- bers of tbe cast a chance to gain more con- fidence in themselves before the final per- formanc~ on May 16 in this city. CQM:MENCEMENT APPROACHES Union Will Be in Readiness to Receive Lcyal Sons of Reunion Classes. Although Httle has been done along the singing li n..e, other plans for Commencement are being gradually made real with quite a degree of certainty. Due to the fact that the Gymnasiu~m Alumnorum stands where there was naug11t but a plot of ground last year, and because in front of the gymnasium a level athletic field stretches forth instead of a fast- rising hill, as previously, the proposition of electric 1ight decoration presents a much more complex: problem to the committee than has been presented in previous years. ' J : \ !',1

t e e a I .! l !\ ' ~ 1\ ! I ' .. !',1 '-,· ' ·• .\ THE GONCORDIENSIS 19 The lighting and decoration of North and South Colonnades will be about the same as last year, and the round building will also present a similar appearance. Along the two lanes and along the sides of the approaches to the gymnasium strings of incandescent lamps will be placed and the gymnasium will be clothed ·in a grandeur of light from within and without which will tend all the more to set off the beauty of its architecture and the splendor of its situation. Reports from \Chuck'' Waldron show that we may reasonably expect to have the best Commencement ever,. and that it will have a larger attendance than in previous years. It is hoped that such will be the case, and if the students will get busy at once in order that their share may not be lacking, there is no doubt that the festivities will be enormously successful from begi~ning to end. A new honor system has been adopted at Wisconsin in which the students merely sign papers at the close of the year stating that they never gave nor received aid during exams. THE OFFER OF THE COLLEGE. To be at home in all lands and ages; to count Nature a familiar acquaintance, and Art an intimate friend; to gain a standard for the appreciation of other men's work and the criticism of y0ur own ; to car:ry the keys of the world's library in your pocket, and feel its resources behind you in whatever task you undertake; to make hosts of friends among the men of your own age who are to be leaders in all walks of life; to lose your- self in generous enthusiasms and co-operate with others for common ends ; to learn man- ners from students who are gentlemen, and form character under professors who are Christians-this is the offer of the college for the best four years of your life. William De- Witt Hyde. We have had our earthquake, been snowed. in, and have seen a flood. Thank goodnes5, the cyclone confined itself to one room. Dear Clat-I am the sister of a freshman on the \hill\ ; please advise me as to a good birthday present for my brother. Sis. Dear Sis-Give him anything he can easily hock. Clat. Manuel of Portugal has given up hope of returning to the throne, and is no longer pen- sioned in England as a king. He is dwindling to such unimportance that he'll soon be claim- ing to have once been a friend of the well- known Gaby Deslys. One of our married men inquires as to the best means of lessening the gas consumption in his home. W·e should advise him to use electricity. We've a company up on the \hill\ ; Each evening they practice their drill ; With \Heinie\ to lead 'em, The U. S. won't need 'em, For what in hell could they kill? Rutgers was certainly lucky Saturday. It rained. The members of the baseball team all say the Winter Garden is running some Poultry Show.

i . . I I 'I . 'I' I I . i 20 THE CONCORDIEN:SIS The robins and bluebirds are with us again; little squirrels flit about the campus, and all the \studes'' are getting their hair cut neatly every week. Now, a skunk is not like a mink, He raises a terrible stink; If you meet this wee beast On your way to a feast, You'd do well to pet-I don't think! Dear Clat-Why has Dr. Ellery become so popular recently? KEN. Dear Ken.-Colored hair is the latest fad. CLAT. SOME PROP~QS.AL .. A freshman from the \Em·erald Isle,\ up ... on deciding to enter the state of matrimony recently, wrote the following to his sweet- heart, Stella : Bright Constellation-After serious medi.-. tation, long consideration and much con- sultation with many of the population o£ this great nation, I have for,med a determi- nation to become your relation. This dec-· laration is no hallucination, and if its reve- lation should receive your approbation with no indignation from your paternal relation~ immediate operation is my specification. Yours without limitation, PAT. 1~t ytt Uo ;wtvoX1fij1t vo~ ·rp~a yt~rn\117' .bA91 hfv~evoY ,j{jif jjlt }lobd 1v ya Iloll ~i't _,J II!w y.oiziv~ \'lvo L ,Jf~jlt ooi ,J ryey;'i ytt 'fryfZ J~:lil t j t oh HfJOfli ~ After he had kissed her and pressed her rosy cheek against his and patted her soft, ronnd chin, she drew back and asked : ''George, do you shave yourself?\ \Yes he replied. \'I thought so,' 'she said. ''Your face is the roughest I ever-\ 'rhen she stopped; but it was too late, and he went away with a cold, heavy lump in his breast. . i l J '' i i

. i l J '' i i THE CON,CORDIENSIS 21 NOVEL MiETHOD. In a recent election in Waukegan, Illinois, two candidates for the office of town clerk polled r75 votes each. Tbe contestants agreed to draw lots for the o:ffice, and thus the question was settled~ Incide11tally, the winning ,candidate is of the £emi nine persuasion. It is reported that \Bill\ Darrow has a new Ford car. Oh, you spe~d-cat! Dear Clat-What makes a ~good, cheap breakfast?· FROSH. Dear Frosh-A nice roll ()n the grass. BIG GAME TODAY. lR Drops Ruled Out. CLAT. The following notice rece11tly appeared on the bulletin board in the e],ectrical lab- oratory: Big Electrical Game Juniors vs. Seniors Thursday, 1 :00 Post Mortem Line-up 1915 Electricals 1914 Electricals Wood ............. c. . . . . . . . . . . . . Hager W~oods ........... p. . . . . . . . . . . . . Up~on Hokerk ........... 1 b. . . . . . . . . Anderson Arthur ............ 2b. . . . . . . . . . . . Evans Stoetzel ........... ss. . . . . . . . . . . . . Gidley Cure ... , ......... .13b. . ... -. . . Hubbard !Marvin ........... If. . ...... ~ . . . Morgan Vosburg .......... cf. . . . . . . . . Walworth Delchamps ........ tf. . . . . . .. . . . . . . Schell 1915 Subs.-Ma.haney, Hubbs, Godfrey, Hughes, Purdy. 1914 Sttbs.-Hall, Lewis, and others too numerou.s to mention. Umpire-Lee. Dr. Berg will throw tJhe first ban over the plate ( ?) .. Miss J. Tuper will act as I914's Mascot. Miss M. Tuper will act as 1915's mascot. The players are requested to leav:e all volts, ir drops, reactances and inductances- at the [ah. Magnets or tarr!ed gloves will not be allowed, but the pitchers win be al- lowed to use hysterysis curves. The femi- nine supporters of either- side must not at- tend bedecked in bright or gaudy hues, as such would detract the attention of the players from the game. ·The date of the game being too late for the publishing of results in this issue, we will report further on the matter next week. From the latest reports :it seems that Car- ranza has refused to sign with the Federal League. VARIED EXPRESSION. Express Clerk Cote (on the lake)-~'Gang- way !\ Wadsworth (en the links)-\Fore !'; Manager Case---\Track !\ Beaver-\ Git de hell oui o' de way!\ \Dome\ Agan is curions to know who puts jokes in the \Concordy\ concerning him. It's just a little bircl, \Dome.\' Where Children Sb.Otuld Thrive~ Wales, N.C. Resf, Wis. Sleepyeye, Minn. Wake Co., N. C. New bottle, England. Bibb, Texas. Tucker, Ill. Castoria, N. C. ---Detroit News.

22 ALBANY COLL.EGE OF PHARMACY Holds ·Com.menc~ment Exercises.-· · Dr. Rich- mond Awards Diplomas. A large audience assembled in the audi- toriutn of the Educational Building Tuesday aifternoon to witness the comtnencement exercis.es of the Albany CoUege of Phar- macy, at which the· class of 1914 were pre- sented with their diplomas of graduation. Interesting exercises marked the occasion. This was the thirty-third annual commence- ment of the college, which occupies such a prominent place i,n the educational circles of Albany. Dean Willis !G. Tucker, M. D., presided a.t the exercises.. Dr. Richmond conferred the degrees. Dr. John Httston Finley, of the state department of education, delivered the ad- dress to the graduating class. His address was eloquent and instructive and brought before the mem·bers of the graduating class the great importance of their profession and the position tha.t they will take in modern society. Award o.f Prizes The prizes w:ere a warded by Professor G. V. Dillenbacht, who made a short address. The following list of prizes were awarded: A prize of twenty-five dollars is offered by Hon. Arthur L. Andrews, of the board of trustees, to the senior student passing the best examination in all branches, at the close of the session. Prize, Emmanuel Brunt; honorable men- t-ion, Cornelius Joseph Hocton, Walter Oscar Rehm. A prize of twenty-five dollars is offered by the Alutnni Association to the senior student doing the hest work in pharmacy for the year. Prize, Emmamuel Brunt; honorable men- tion, Cornelius f oseph Hoctor, ,Chester Webber Weeks. A prize of twenty-five dollars is offered by Charles N ewma.n, president of the board of trustees, to the senior student doing the best work in chemistry for the year. Prize, Emmanuel Brunt; honorable men- tion, Cornelius Joseph Hoctor, Chester W~ebber Weeks. A prize of twenty-five dollars ·is offered by Dr. John M. Bigelow, of the board of trustees, to the senior student doing the best work in Materia medica for tbe year. Priz~e, Walter Marshall Hartman; honor- able mention, Walter Oscar Rehm, Chester W ebher Weeks. A prize of twenty-five dollars is offered by Charles Gibson, of the board of tr-ustees, to the junior student passing the best examination in all branches, at the close of the session. Prize, Lloyd Beardsley Whitaker; honor- able mention, Arthur Edward Seitzinger, Harold Raymond Bronk. The Kappi Psi Fraternity prize of ten dollars to the junior student doing the best work in practical pharmacy and passin~ the best final examination in theoretical phar- macy. Prize, Lloyd Beardsley Whitaker; honor- able mention, Harold Raymond Br()nk, Albert Dudley Warner. NOTICE All unpaid subscriptions whether Student, Faculty, or Alumni are long past due. If you have not as .yet paid for your sub- scription, your remittance of two dollars in check, money order, or cash will be appreciated. Please make checks payable to the \Concordiensis\ and mail to the manager or deposit in the Concordiensis mail box on the \hill.\ We urge again, your prompt remittance will be appreciated. To peel potatoes properly, have a sharp knife and run it around between the skin and the potato. I r ,. r ,'·.

I r ' ( i ; ,. r ' ,'·. THE CON·CORDIEN:SIS Teleph~one anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Stor·e, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY For Work, For Play, For Out Doors, For In Doors, For Day, For Night For every use there is a suit with the Steefel Clothes idea behind it. Don't forget. Snappy 1 H· ats, Gloves, Shoes and fur- nishings for the young man who wants to • \.t t b ,, ee y. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ Vaudeville--Photoplays Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 Feature Pictures 2 to .S Special Music 7 to 10:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies [@ Jay A. Rickard Co. 253 State St. \Schenectady's Sporting Goods Store\ A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $-i to Js. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to .$8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

BARNEY~S Wh1re Bve,.,htJrJ, ShopJ Students will find that they have every- thing at .... BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Schen1ctady 's Ortat1st Stor1 Correct Dan.cing Also the new dances · P·riOf. Kilgallen's Private Dancing Classes Further information see Hand Book page 52 The larg~st and be1t ·equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing HaU, which can be rented for Pri· ate Parties only,, in connection with house - - • - - - 2;9· Front Street Both ·Phon~es Fine Furniture at Popular Prices ,JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the seaso:n's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Cl:othing - - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing SHOE SALE ' Wadtz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made · waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Modern Dancing I'me new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, H~sitation Waltz and the One Step taught ill fbree lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. WLeldea, Mana 1 er Arcalle Hall, Near N. Y. C.IJepot 'Phone 2723-J SAY YOU B.A. W IT IN 'rlt:l.'l ~; CONCORDY •• ;, ,I

i ' , . .. ; '·'Balmacaans\ for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. J. H:ILLMAJN 617 State Street · The Students'Problem Solved The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason lluilding . '·On your way to th.e Post Office\ SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FL.OWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORlST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can get the extra half hour sleep every morna ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady lluminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largett ·dealer5 in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS lNVITED TELEPHONE P..ATRONIZE YOUR P.APER'S PATRONIZERS

I . J i,: . ; . ; I 1 : , I ) : . l ' I, I ' ; : •' ' ., SAUER BROTHERS Printing, Binding, Makers of Hfgh Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made t<> Order. 316 ·state. Street-\Phone '2799!-W • --E:URQ:PEAN-- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Special Rates to Students 422 STATE ST~EET LENS ·GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOM'ETRIST ;Broadway and Maid'e11 Lane Albany, N. Y. · 426 State Street Eyes Teated and Glasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 2 1 )0 ROOMS Ladies• Restaurant Attached. Special New· RathskeHer. B()wling Aley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Eroadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs,. Fraternities and Associa.tions solicited. ~ . . The .Schenectady T·rust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON~S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's BonBons and Chocolates Kodaks, Developing, Printing and ;Enlarging LYON'S 3 DRUG STORES C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. J:OHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Cla11a Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suitt, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100·1 Thalman, Caterer. 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at o11r own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Pho11e 3628-L Greenhouae 1408 State St. Phone 1543..J llutnu Natinttalinuk &t!Jruertn~y- N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent 8.A Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY ,. i •..

tHE CONCORb!ENSlS ~··\\~- .. - .. ... .. .. ... . ..... . . ... .. .. - - . .. Engraving and E:mbossing Lowest prices consistent with high class w~rk, will he quoted to college students., :froili now until com menc~nrent. · Un.iott Book C:o., Inc. 257 STATE STREET SC.tH3NE-tTAJ:.>Y; N.Y. - i •.. ' THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof 'brchestral 'Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanin'e from 4 to 6 o; clock Abo THE ON.O~~AGA, Syracu·se, N:. Y. FIREROOF aoth hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of .... • • • .,.. . ' . ... • r - ~' FURNTURE • ....: ·.-: ... ; • ,,. \!. • AMERICAN PLAN AU Outside Rooms. E'n'wn\T CLl:f'l'E, Prop. S~henectady, N.Y. A R Z . • ' Q h furnished music ~t Union Col1ege I<J05 '-- e ... • ... tta S .. · rc estra '66, '07, \o8 ;09, '10; •II; 'I2 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World a. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Off' • d' R 16-7 H 1 s Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert . ICe all . es., .. alfil toft t •t -any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependabl~ Day and Night Servic·e. The quickest and most 'comfortabl'e way to get to ahd from soCial and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time·. Shannon & Son n8 l-2 N'Orth F'erry St. T~e Sterling Ar~ _ ~h~P A place for gift giving purchases .. Interior D·ecorating .. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE 'ClTY 154 jay Street, ·''On your way to the Post ·Office~' PATRONI-ZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZER:S

THE CO·N·CORDIENSIS When the World Sleeps -a hundred thousand lone night workers, at a thou- sand different tasks, lighten the long hours and hearten their labors with the fragrant comfort of fresh-rolled uBull\ Durham Cigarettes. The telegraph operators in the darkened cities; the night herders on the silent plains; the night-watch on far-sailing ships; to each and all of them comes the longing for the cheerful companionship of these fresh, hand-made cigarettes, fashioned by their own skill, to their own liking, from ripe, mellow, world-famous GENUINE ~·BuLL DURHAM .SMOKING TOBACCO (Enough /or forty hand-made cigarettes in each 5c aack) The world-wide appeal of '\'Bull\ Durham is with· out a parallel in the annals of creature comforts. Millions of men of all nations and all classes find in \BulL\ Dur- ham hand-made cigarettes lifelong enjo.qment and lasting A FREE satisfaction. Their fresh fra- book~f~~tJaJ)en.. grance and mellow flavor are U'it!J each Sc aGCk a revelation. Get \the makings'\ today and ''roll your own.'\ f R E E An Illustrated Booklet, · showing how to \ Roll Your Own,\ and a Book of cigarette papers. will both be mailed, free, to any address in U.S. on postal request. Address \Bull\ Dttrham, Durham, N. C., Room 12104 THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY 1210 \ ., '' ·;.

.,, ' . ~ I '' ·;. ' THE CON:CORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MOE DeWILDE' ·aatllr aad Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Goods · · 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart. McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and :Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. Albany, N. Y. 64 No. Pearl St., A Jhany, N. Yo Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. 2nd SHI~TS 30c Alban:~ Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl SL \Our Business is Gromint\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets o.f ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 Gftd 42 Maiden Lane Alba•,, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

' I ' ' , I ~ i ' 1 ' ' ! ! ) ! i ~ ' 1 : ' , 'I (:I '' l : ''' ' ' ~ l ' I: THE CONCON!DIEN.SIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA M·usic Furnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET - -· .. ~ ~ - . . ~ ~ ' 'P-Oo•oO 0 •••O .......... -·--~- •o,O• ·-···-·oooOO-o• A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest ca1h prie.ea 31 0 State Street, Schenectady . - . . _._. . .. ·-· ..... -- .. Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS .. e: .•... ~ ........ _ .. : . z.su .. :. z.· .. -·- t~ •... :zs ..•.. s. ·- Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polisbe1 212 So. Centre St. A ~ 41 SQUA~E DEAL\ far everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.'' We guarantee each buye:r of an article be.aring the Spaulding Trade .. Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of s~rvice. A G S ld ~ & B 1Z.6·128 Nassau Stl;'eet • \ pau lng . ros. 520 5th Ave .• New York Send for Catalogue · VanVoast & Leonard =-=--=--- -=--=- -=- =--=-=-·=:. -;_ =·- .. ::::.-- ·=.-=-- ::· .. ::···=--~-::--- ::···::--:· -=· :· === GENERAL INSURANCE • .. •-•• •_,_)., • -•- §_.,£, - o •·= • •• • (,,_ ·- • - • -·• o, • , .,., ,., •r .£ •- ••· Quick - Active -- Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT • JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles The Schenectady Clothing Company [I Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros~' Sweaters BAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY\ '' ;: I'• i I

. THE CONCORDIENS,IS Witt ijumptnu i\lhauu THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDER EAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 185() 467 State Street Schenectady, N .. Y. §nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EvERYTHiNG IN CuPs AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. P.ATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

' l' ' ' l '! ' l l '' I' 1 '' ·, ' ; :I I': Good Clothes SAY MEN: Y/ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Ma1x Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells ~ ' - ----·--·---·· - - - - the right kind, and naturall,r must sell ~he right kind oJ other things to wear too. If you look us over a 1~!!;1~ we think you'll_like us and o~ way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ·'111»- Art Preu

