.... i, .1' 1--·t r : / / C .· ··o· ·H. ··n· ·.··· P·N·:c..,.H-. -\'ur·- · . ·- ·_ ·. ::, ·_ ::_·L .. ' . ;_ .[J,: _· .J:J. . : .. ' ' I • . HU - --- . H ... - B- ·· ·E'··:R· -_ · . . : : ~ ·. ~ . . . ' . ' ' . ·. I.

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES A!LEXANDER RICH:MOND, D. D., LL D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the :f.allowing under;graduate · a:n.d graduate courses: 1. Course• leading to 6e degree ot A. B. CLASSICAL COURSE A.-Greek is require<i for ad- mission to this course. French and Germa.:n are in- duded in addition to the aacient languages .. Cou~sE LEADING To DEGREE o1 M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures 1 laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING TO DEGRK£ OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate. study requires for admis.- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-. S.tudents may,. at the close • ·of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates · • -----------·----------- for the degree of A. B. 1'hey will then be Tequired · DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE to .study Greek for two year:s. Proficiency in Latin · ALBANY MEDICAL COL:LEG.·E--Instruction by is prerequisite. lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prae- 2· Ooorae leadins to .the degree o1 PJl • .B. tical demonstrations and operations. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC COBRSE-This course offers Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Latin without Greek, for v.rnich is substi tn:t~d add.i- · Catalogues and circulars containing full in form.- tional work in modern lang-uages and scieB.ce. tion sent on application to: a. Courae leadtns to' tlte de&'I'ee ot: B. •• WILLIS G. TUCKEii, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. ScutNTIP'lC CouRsE- This c()urse is baseli upon the 1tudy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadtnc to the de~ree o~ IJ. E. G:&NER.AL ENGINEERING CouJtsE-This cou,rse offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, · comprising 1nathematics, the <;ciences, the funda- mental principles of tl1e special branches ()of the pro- fession, and some training 1n history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This di.fEers fron1 the general engineering co.tuse in substituting special work in sanitary engineeri11.g for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINE:ERIN& CouRsE-This ~ourse is intended to give a broad and thorough .e:n~ineering education, with the specia~ instruction re~uisite for electrical engineering. CoURSE LEADING TO D:EGR~E ott M. c_ E.- This eour-se of one year of gr-aduate study consists of lectures, laboratory pra.ctic:e and research wor'L JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 f()r free sample of our spedal Cofl'ee at 25c or Teas at 30c DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA). PARKE.R., J. NEWTON FntRo, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL- This department of the university is located at Albany. near the state capitoL It occupies a bui'ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree' of LL. B. ii three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee~ $Io; tuition fee. $I Io. For catalogue or other information, addresa: joHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPi\RTMEKT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded (OUrse of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $9o.oo per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. *'Everything for the College Man except Exame•• GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS SH1iman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Sm<Jke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ,._

of its . li sa: THE CONCORDIENSIS Your Instructors will help you solve yOur Mathentatical @: or In the ''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • 3 QUIZ- When your making up that \ d\ . '' con 1t1on - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you '11 appreciate the cheery and cheering warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Ra·diator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illumi'llating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Sho~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE :CQNCORDIENSTS ''The House of Fine Clothes'' ROGERS-PEET MAKE WILL APPEAL to the CoiJege Man who wants the utmost value for his money in High-·Grade Clothing Our stock of this particular make is large and comprehensive. Corne in and get acquainted with the best clothing made in America -you'll be delighted at the rich fabrics as well as tbe neat models. Babbitt & Co. Jlalu 1Jlunr4 Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. ''AJbany's Greatest Clothiers\ 451-453 BROADWAY SUITS · MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. ALBANY ART 1 UNION PhotoQra phs-- .. Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephoaes Albany, N. Y. BAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \·CONCU.K.i.U' \

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS · ·· Tuxedo- A Hit with the Hit-Makers . J H UNDREDS of the snappiest baH players in the•.country- the clean-cut athletes who provide Americans with their greatest out- door relaxa.tion-enthusiastically en- dorse Tuxedo. This is the kind of endorsement that carries a convinc- ing punch. · These men know that Tuxedo is a mild, pure tobacco, which can be smoke·d all day with pleasure. Tux- edo cannot bite the tongue; it burns freely and smoothly, giving a cool, s1r,veet smoke. The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo is made from the finest, · mildest, leaves of high-grade Burley tobacco, so treated under the fa- m.ous original '' Tuxedo Process'' that it burns slow and cool, with a delightful flavor and aroma. The ''Tuxedo Process'' makes it impossible for this perfect tobacco. to bite or sting the most delicate throat or tongue. Tuxedo has many imitators -in outward appearance. It has no equal in the pipe C?r cigarette. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient poueb, 5 Famous green tin. 10 inF}er-lined with C with gold l.etterbtg, . C mo.uture-proof paper curved to fit pocket FRED. CLARKE eel' d advise every ball- plaJ)er to smoke Tuxedo.. I do, alwaJ)s. l know of no other tobacco that gi11es the aatisfaction that Tuxedo · Jot:~o ,, JIMMY ARCHER \Tuxedo is my idea of a . good smok.e in every way- coolness, mildness, purity. Tuxedo i& a winner.\ JACK NclNNIS In Glass Humidors, SOc and 90c •~Tuxedogive.!acool:Jmiltf FR . EE Send us. 2 cents in stamps for post- smoke, and never affects tlze age and we will mail you a souvenir wind. Tuxedo is tl tobacco , tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any that's always good.\ . point in the United States. Address J..L &~Ai:.:L· THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY' riZ R()om 1209 111 Fifth Avenue New York 1210

THE CONCORDIENISIS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsu1passed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROO'M SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, I og No. Pearl Street Clark & McDonald The 70 Year Old Jewelry and Optical House 233 State Street Schellectady F. W. Mullin J. F.. Leonard PROPRIETORS Ae R. Mullin ~unit & C!Tnmpuuy ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N. Y. Outdoor days are doubly pleasant wh.en you KODAK Everybody can make good pictures the KODAK way .. Kodaks $6 to $65 Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No~ Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, President T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treaa. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, - General Counael Main office, 4 7 State SL Park Branch, 200 Washington S.\ Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORD'Y ~·

THE C~ONCORDIENSIS Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WEBER Cluett & Sons AND ONE PRICE .PIANO HOUSE PIANOLA .p;JANOS l508 STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY, N. Y Are You Progressing? \If :tt's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Are you in need of shoe repairing? If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly lo~e. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street H~eadquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. lil Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores H 0 L T z M A N 's LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-=-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADI_jER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES [i] French, Shriner & Umer Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothier& COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

i: THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a ; ; : Regal Shoe PRINTING . . .. THAT IS RIG.HT, REASONABLE The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you AND ON TIM'E will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent ~r~tutrtally i\d frtnn J. H, COMO, Prop. 451 State St. Schenectady 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling, The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\ -GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 4258-W SAY YOTT SAW IT IN THE \CONCO.J:lDY ''

THE CON·CORDIENSIS N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER 1\1' 1ft ~ 7G t l Ream 74 Parker Building. Special Rates ta Students · ~ tlU Jtl tttullWt ~ .0 •. t Telephone 620-W Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. r;;;;;iiiiiiiiii;;::=::!:::::;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods 3J. 31. IDQrarlr DELICATESSEN \Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church To the American Colleges and Universities from 'P 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty HONE - 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store FELLOWS: We are going to show you the swellest line of Straw and Panama Hats you have ever seen. Panamas $5.00 up. Straws $1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00 & 4.;00 See window display when weather is right. NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FUR'NISHER Higgins' ( Drawing Inks ·1 Eternal Writinl! Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilage \') Photo Mounter Paste I Drawing Board Paate l ~~:;.:i::~luea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. M anufacture5 Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Visthn~ Ca,..ds W'eJd,nQ' .Stahonery \Sus1ne Cards-Letter Heads Class Pins -Mono(rams Crests, Coats \f Ar~s ett. .DESIGN£ f\S :ENG~VEf\S PATRONIZE Y017R PAPER'S PATRONIZERS ,,, ·' 1 '• .. ~ ( e , ,, ,,

THE CONCORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE Boys, now's the time to ''Go Fishing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a Good ·Outfit insures you against the petty anoyances and means Good Luck., We have a Splendid Line to show you-Call in Bristol Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trout Flys and Bait Everything for the Fisherman AlBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNIO·N .of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON ''The College Photographer'' WHITE, 229 State Street D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S College Representative J am prepared to supply your wants for the <:oming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. \Tango Shirts'' $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, j36 State St. Gazette Building SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY \ GARNET 1903 1909' 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 191.3 1908 1914 ,, ' = v ti tl Cl: <!; () f t s ,, l ( 'I

Concordiensis VOL. 37 JUNE 11, 1914 NO. 27 THE COLLEGE MAN'S DEBT Delivered April 20, 1914, By the Writer of the Tower Room Stories. Every student, graduated from an institu- tion of higher learning, should bear in mind that he has contracted a debt. It may be iil' financial obligation to his friends as well <~.s an obligation to the world, but in spite ()f financial matters-whether a student has provided his own means or not-he con- tracts, by, the very means of his training, a serious obligation-an honest debt. What is this debt? Let us consider some phases of this question. In the first place we owe much to the present generation. Society is now main- taining many good institutions which pro- .mote the welfare of the individual. These institutions are constantly growing in num- ber and in influence, and through them our higher self-realization is made possible. Our age, playing its part with the trend of society, brings with it countless oppor- tunities for development and progress. The present creates a congenial environment for our best good. Then again, as students, we are greatly indebted to the life of the past. It is doubt- ful if we can ever estimate the true worth of our inheritance from the past. How far could we climb up the ladder of human pro- gress if we could not build on the achieve- m ents of our ancestors ? The greatest con- tributions of Plato, Aristotle, and countless others have served to illumine all succeed- ing generations. We gain today from a few pages of a book, ideas and conceptions that represent long years of thought; and not only are we indebted to the sages · them- selves, hut we are :gathering at first-hand the experiences of long epochs of history. We profit in studying the blunders of past generations as well as their general trend in evolution for better civilization. Then in addition it seems fair to say we are debtors to the generations of the future. We have gained from the past and the present, but we have a real obligation to the coming generations. And it is to future peoples that we are to pay the largest installn1en ts of our obligation. As we have received the very best that our fore-fathers could produce, so we in turn must con- tribute for tomorrow, our very best achieve- ments. Can any. fair-minded man think of inheriting the wealth of the past without feeling his obligation to pass on to others the light and truth of his own day? Can any student gain an education without en- hancing responsibility as well? All the world will say to him: \To whom much is given, of him much is required.\ But admitting our obligations, how are we to pay this debt? This question is worth some consideration. Perhaps the . ;

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS following suggestions will help to answer it: In the first place I believe we are W'ell started on the way of m:eeting our obliga- tion if we are conscious of our indebtedness, and have a sincere desire to 1nake son1e return. To feel no sense of obligation, and no desire to give to the world so1nething in return for the wealth of present civiliza- tion, is to be densely ignorant or else basely ungrateful to all the _good life of the past. On the other hand accordingly as we sense our obligation, in like proporti<>n is it possi- ble to live such a life as will render to pos- terity the best service. This desire for service will give a great and noble purpose -a definite goal for all endeavor. Then, in the second place we must make the best possible use of all our powers. This point is worthy of our 'Serious atten- tion. It means that we are not to squander our talents, no matter how much we are tempted to do so. The multitude may foolishly demand cheap fiction-stories of Jove and life failing to portray the true ideals of society. The populace may be- come more than crazy with the dance, and demand of talented men to devote their genius to composing songs full of sentiment and rhythm but empty of any true art or ideal of purity.- Yes, there will doubtless be many to make such demands in the future even as today. But are men with talent and genius to forsake utterly the pur- suit of noble ideals for satisfying a popular fancy? There may be millions of dollars for the writer of dime novels, but can the world profit most by a sacri-fice of talent? Should a baby be given anything for which he cries? Just here is the temptation of all great men. They are induced to sacrifice true genius for n1oney or fame and popularity. They lose the thought of permanent great- ness-the aspiration of becoming a Scott, or a Tennyson-for the hope of temporary renown. And not only are there men of literary genius who follow the example of Robert W. Chambers in this respect, but any man of talent for leadership and power may become entrapped in some political schen1e or degrading business enterprise. Lured by the babble of the crowd their ideals are lowered and they are n1ere bosses. It must be a retribution to such to know in old age that they have served as a machine for low aims, that their talents have not been used to the best purpose, that much of individuality and j.oy and satisfaction of life is lost. Then we are not to squander our talents if we a..re to use all our powers for the best possible end. And we may also include that the best use of our powers means the plan- ning of something hard to be acco1n plished. I doubt if any man has been condetnned for as pi ring to become . great in the true sense. We should expect to do some important work in the world and make for ourselves a permanent place in history. Perhaps we cannot be equal to a Pasteur, or a Marconi in the realm of science, but we 1nay do our best to contribute something to the store of knowledge or invention. We may not be great leaders in arts of war or peace, yet we can aspire to building a character and a name tht posterity will be proud to re- member long years after we are gone. Whether our .circle of influence be great or small we can make it stand for the highest of our ideals; and as long as we ren1ain a part of history we tnay be a means for pointi11g men heavenward. And now, finally, to make the best use of our powers we must make the best use of our opportunities. Time brings with it many opportunities. They may be a part of the age in which we live, they may come as a result of our own effort, but in either case they must be duly considered. If we make the best of our opportunities, if we use our talents and powers to the best of our ability and for the highest purpose, if

1 t f e s •t ~t l- l. !S re . lll lf of )e et 1d ·e- te. or ~st a . :or tse 1se it art me her we we of ' if THE CONCORDIENSIS I) we aitn to contribute something of value to posterity--then we are paying in sotne m,easure at least, the debt we owe to man ... kind. Whether a Lincoln or peasant, a Longfellow or a newspaper reporter; whether our name is embossed on great volumes or simply carved on a marble slab, -it matters not. I£ we can say that we have done our best no more will be de- n1anded o£ us. I£ the generations of the future looking upon our deeds are led to say of u~: \Freely they received, and as freely they gave-their very best, even themselves,\ then we shall have paid our debt, and thereby gained eternal glory. Morgan L. Williams. •s4 HOLDS MEMORIAL SERVICE The memorial service of the class of 1884 was to be held at Vale cemetery directly after vespers last Sunday, but rain tnade an out-door exercise impossible and so the service was held in the chapel. The address was made by Rev. William Elliot Griffis of Ithaca. Ther~ are twenty-six deceased members of the class, several of whom are buried in Vale cetnetery. The mortuary roll follows : F. V. Bennett, C. W. Burhams, B. G. Chisolm, Zenas Clark, J. F. Delaney, C. A. Cockroft, E. D. craig, Joseph Cohen, Jr., Frank Ferguson L. R. Garnsey, F. Dixon Hall, J. M. Harvey, A. P'. Vermilye, C. H. Hill, C. A. Kitts, R. B. McCown, D. S. Mer- ritt, H. L. Miller, F. S. Parmenter, R. S . Wells, G. F. Parsons, H. G. Porcher, F. W. Ray, F. Z. Rooker, L. C. Talley, F. S. Titus. Plans were made whereby the graves o£ these members were decorated by friends and relatives, the floral tribute irtcl uding a spray sent from Jackson's garden. The class also decorated the graves of nine pro- fessors of the class in the college burial plot in Vale cemetery, Schenectady; the grave of the Rev. Dr. Coppee in Philadelphia, and Chester A. Arthur in the Rural cemetery, Albany. Service was attended by the class of '84 Sunday morning in the First Reformed ~church where, thirty years ago) the mem- bers of the class received their diplomas. This was the initial event of Union's 118th commencement. The service was con- ducted by the Rev. Clayton J. Potter, Union, '00, pastor of the church. He was a8sisted by the Rev. Dr. Edwin Rice of Philadelphia, U nio~, '54; the Rev. Dr., Wil- liam Eliot Griffis. of Ithaca, Union, ~84 (hon- - orary), and the Rev. Dr. E. C. Lawrence of Schenectady, Union, '69. Dr. Griffis and Dr. Lawrence were instr,nctors in Union College in 1884. LIBRARY RECIEVES VALUABLE RECORD The library has recently received from Wm. J. Keep, at Mr. Clinton's request, his famous book on the subject of \Cast Iron.\ It is a record of original research and is the very last word on the subject. Mr. Keep., a member of the class of '65, has made a close study of this branch of science and has a national fame in his specialty. He is a member of the American Society of Mechan- ical Engineers, of the International Associa- tion for Testing Materials, of the American Institute of J\iining Engineers, and many other scientific organizations. Mr. Keep expects to be present at Com- mencement this year. A new professorship, that of professor ol all literatures, has been established at Ho- bart. William C. Lawton will be the first to receive the title and take the chair. Nine juniors and thirty-three seniors wiU make Phi Beta Kappa at Wisconsin thi! year. So far this is the best percentage shown by a western university. , . . , •· .. t

14 THE CONC ORDIENSIS 1M ~i~~~~-~~ ~ ~-~~~~#'~~'~ ~~ .. w~

. ~ THE CONCORDIENStS !l{~ ~~a?~~ ~of~.~~ J·f/(-~~ . 'C~ Ju,. ~d~. ~~-G~ ~~.- A?:~..d~ ~c~~. J-1) ·~ . ~~~ • L-f6n./V k --/~ \7- /J ;fr L,w. ~ ~ <:n~Ja.U~. f3/~df&/~ ti·At~ 7~ }-...~ ~?riff'~ .::¥-~ .,d ~ 1'-P..-..~ ~ c~ ?\~ ~ a.!:f~ ~4 J~cJIJ.~. ~ a.~a/L. ~~ (!~.~~~ -;:?,~~ ~~f~~~ ~-;p-;L ... 4- ~~.~~ ~~4.~ LJ.~·~.~­ AHfcvu;~ t/. f. ~ ~rrn, ~ ~.0.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS Missouri University has installed a course in the cultural art of butchering, and has there a complete butcher shop in the base- ment of one of the buildings. UNION WINS FROM RUTGERS Hummer Pitches Great Ball and is Well Backed. Rutgers, 2-U nion, 3 : so runs the historic resume of that battle of Saturday, May 30th. That was the day (the ancient dotard of the class of '16 will tell his great grand- child of the class of 1976 at re-union ti1ne) that was the day when Hummer outpitched the famous Jennings of Rutgers, striking out 18 men : Outpitched Jennings who re- cently had held Princeton to three hits and had let R. P. I. down with a no-hit, no-run record. That was the day when Hummer won his own game by sliding home while the opposing catcher threw to first to catch Kearney when he -(the catcher) flirted with the third strike. \Yes I remember,\ says the ancient '16 man fondly caressing his '16 cane, \there were no runs scored until the third inning. Then with Rosecranz on first, on a gift of four balls, Hummer advanced him on a fielder's choice and he came home on Kearney's sacrifice. Then in the fifth dear old 'Tubby' had fanned, Hummer swung at · a ball for the third strike, a ball so ex- travagantly wide that Acker, the Rutgers catcher, was astounded. Acker, the Rut- gers catcher, was so astounded that he let the ball get completely away from him, and Hummer took first. Then Hummer stole second and third. Old man Kearney then did the very same thing that Hummer had done-he swung at a wide one-and Acker played true to form, whereupon Kearney started to first. As he started, Hummer started home. Then Acker capped the cli- max by throwing down to get Kearney, and scarcely had the ball left his hand ere Jean was dusting the gutta percha with his pads. \In the sixth, by heavy and timely wil- low-waving, Rutgers tied the score. Then came the seventh. 'Tubly' Rosecranz planted himself on first, stole second and came home when Howlett lost Kearney's scratch. It's all over and the boys are throwing epileptic and vainglorious cart- wheels on the field of victory. \Yes sir. Hummer fanned two men an inning right along until the sixth when only one Redskin masticated the loam. But Jean made up for that in the seventh by fan- ning the side and repeated the trick in the eighth j:ust to show 'em he could do it.\ The old grad stopped and shaded his rheumy eyes with his palsied hand. Then a light of joy flasherl over his faded countenance. Grasping his ancient class cane, he hobbled forward to greet an old, old man whose whiskers trailed in the dust. \Well Jean!\ shouted the first '16 man, \Gosh all fish hooks, how are you!\ And the second old, old man whose whiskers trailed in the dust laughed a cracked smile out of his trel?lb ling toothless mout13 and replied: \Oh prety fine, Bill, how are you?\ And as they tottered off the last words the youngster from 1876 heard were these: \Who are you pitching with now, Jean?\ \Wash'n'ton was the reply. \I let down the Athletics yesterday with two hits. Not so bad What?\ The score: RUTGERS a b. r. h. po. a. e. Harvey lf. 1 a • • • ., • • • 4 0 0 1 0 0 How1ett, 3b. . ...... 4 0 3 0 4 1 Lead.s, (capt.) ss .... 3 0 1 1 2 2 Leving, lb. . ....... 4 0 1 10 0 0 Acker, c. .......... 2 0 0 7 2 5 Browning, rf. ...... 4 0 0 5 0 0 Hueby, 2b. . ....... 4 0 0 0 4 0 Jennings, p. ....... 2 1 1 0 2 0 Gillam, cf. ......... 3 1 0 0 0 0 Totals ' ........ 32 2 6 24 14 8 '< . I l' t ' . . )~ F :F 1' I ' J 1 ] ]

.·1 i ·. i l.! t ', ' . . . )~ UNION a b. r,. h. THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 po. a. e. A la Barclay, a la Bark, a la Toodles, a '1 a Squan, a la Terry Scoundrel, a la power Kearney, cf. • •• 6 •••• 4 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 for good. A la Bradford, ala Brad, a la Codfish ala Friday, rf. . ........ 4 0 Naumann (capt.) ss.4 0 0 1 0 HougJ:1ton, lb. . ..... 4 0 2 1 0 Woods, 3b. . ....... 4 0 1 2 0 J. Beaver, lf. ...•... 4 0 1 1 1 D. Beaver, c. •. •· •... 3 0 0 lg 2 Rosecranz, 2b. . ,, .. ·• 2 2 0 2 0 Hummer, p. ....... 3 1 0 0 0 Totals ......• ,, .. 3'2 3 5 27 3 ~· ,::;.~;;:-\ ... ~~·\\ --~-~\\\' ·/\/ ~J -- 4.:\\ ALLOUETTE As Rendered by Louis De .La Vergne. Leader : A la boomerang\\'a-jon, A la boomerang-a-jon. A la jon. Students (in chorus) : A la jon. Leader : A la greetings. Students : A la greetings. Leader· A la friends . •. Students: A la friends .. 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Leader: A la fond parents. Students: A 1a fond parents. Leader : A la wives and sweethearts. Students: A la wives and sweethearts. Leader : A la everybody. Students: A la everybody. Leader : Aillouette-a. Students : Allouetta jolly allouetta al- louetta jolly allouette. Leader: A la boomerang-etc. Auntie. A la Case, a la Casey, a la Louis, a la Annette Kellerman, ala back stoo-p. A la Cote, a la Steamboat Bill, a la goo ... goo eyes, a la educate the woman. A la Decker, a la Deck, a la Pop, a la snowball veteran. A la Dej.onge, a la Sid, a la married man. A la Diamant, a la Nick, a 1a the count, a. la Sigma Xi, a la do it by integration. A la Eghiayan, a la Eggs, a la eh! Swede, you gotta match, a la I killa you, Shad! A la Elnore, a la Cy, a la Pop's favorite, a la Albany. A la Ennis, a la Totn, a la Dink, a la Eaby-face, a la just too sweet, a la the high- er things in life. A la Evans, a la Dick, a la Swede, a Ia Reech, a la ring grandpa ring, a la ay ban from 1\1inj esota. A la Ewens, a la Mike, a la \author a la father Ewens, a la Y. M. C. A., a la Mud- hawk Chorus, a la special officer drop oyster. A la Ferray a la Pete, a la Brazil. A la Filmer, a la Gloversville, a la chemist. A la Fox, a la Quiller, a la boner, a la fuller realization. A la Gidley, a la Gid, a la where's de gang. A la Gunning, a la Harry, a la Scamper. Students : A la-etc. A la Almeida, a la Brazil, a la the smile that ~_911't wear off. ( ,._~ 14 ~ • • ~~'()'' ~~.: -, A la Guthman, a la Jerry, a la Charlie Murphy, a la shut off the ga.s, a la further- more, etc. --- --A 'fa Anderson, a la Andy, a ht Big Swede,_ a la good night nurse . A la Baker, a la Jimmy, a la nimble foot, a la star athlete, a la P. C. papers please copy. A la Baldwin, a la Baldy, a la Pop, a la Lamda Epsilon. A la Hagad, a la Lute, a 1a Sigma Xi, a la valedictorian, a la Steenmetz No. 2. A la Hall, a la J. A., a la Sigma Xi, a la married n1an, a la oscillagrapher, a la f! == - 1, a la Hall, I'm surprised at you. A la Hawley, a la Art, a la Hailey, a la philosophical dozer, a la Plato and I.

THE CONCORDIENS~IS A la Hitchcock, a la Heinie, a la Hitch, a A la da Silva, a la Brazil, a la Seven la Terry Scoundrel, a la let tne run the Cylinder Silva. college. A la Smith, a la W. C., a la Wireless A Ia Howell, a la Doc, a la Terry Scoun- Walter, a 1a going, going, gone, a la too late drel, a la brass band, a la Jack McGraw. for N ewbro's. A 1a Kenworthy, a la Ken, a la Alhy, a la A la Tiedeman, a la Walt, a la Tiede, a la Home Sweet Home Club, a la deacon of Sigma Xi, a la shark. demijohn. A la story, a la Steve, a la Terry Scoun- A la Lacy, a la Port, a la ginger, a la drel, a la Rip Van w·inkle, a la Ballston Satchel. Lake. A la Lewis, a la George, a la Terry A la ·Taylor, a la Bill, a la N emo, a la Dr. Scou.ndrel, a la physics shark, a la let's bolt. Roller, a. la leg-puler, a a KilgaUens, a la A Ia Loeb, a la Art, a la thunder voice, Salley's pride. a la pussy cafe. A la Tefer, a la Archie, a la Joe Beamish, A la Lord, a la Vic, a la sentimentalatist, a la frogs, a la I'm stuck. a Ia new religions, a la Brig Young. A la Tinkelpaugh, a la Whistle-hoof, a la A la Lutz, a la Bill, a la Sign1a Xi, a la Tin k, a la wish I were married, a la Sodus when I get to the city. Bay. A la lVIarcott, a la Horace a la Green P., la Truex, a la Ajax, a la Shrimp, a Ia Mountain Boy. Alplaus. A la McCormick, a la Mack, a la, Pop's A la Van Santvoord, a Ia Zig, a la Pop, a darling, a la Sunday and Wednesday nigh is. I a Cohoes, a la little pompadori. A la Meneely, a la Buck, a la cheese. a la l\ la \\l osburgh, a la Vosie, a la Sigma Xi, our cheer leader, a la you fellows think. a la a Ia Tam Longboat. Lewis, a la Louis you boob. A la Wadsworth, a la George, a la give A la de Moraes, a la Brazil, a la injun. a long yell for the ball team, a la Bernard a la ferocious guy. C:haw. A Ia Morgan, a la Mugsy, a la married A la Walworth, a la Walrus, a la Terry man, a la rope consumer. Scounrlrel, a la ah! Stan. A la Mudge, a la Bill, a la musk-:er, a la A la West, a la Jimmie, a la grind, a la Sigma Xi, a la Oscar Hammerstein, a la chang-e for Palmyra. Swing Berlin. A la \iVilliams, a la Bill, a la Sister, a la A la Nauman, a la Dutch, a la Tom, a la Sigma Xi. a la Ladies Home Journal. don't interrupt me incentive. A la l(ewis, a la John, a la Jake, a la use A la Sarvey, a la Dal t, a la Sa rv, a la your head. Terry ~coundrel, a la gum shoe, a la ice ____ .. _:.,. A 'la Union College, a la faculty, a la cream tippler. Studes, a la visitors, a la subfreshmen, a la A la Schaffer, a la Red, a la live wire, 1914, a la that's all, a la deep sigh, allouette. a la now if you fellows mean business, a la down in front. Ala Schell, a la Shelly, a la Daniel Web- ster, a la whirlwind. Ala A. D. Sherman, ala Red, ala Section Kink, a la Mount Vesuvius. A Ia C.. Sherman, a Ia Chuck, a Ia prize orator, a la war is hell, a la so is work. QUITE A TRICK In the New York Mail we note this : \Delphine waved her back impatiently.\ Evidently Delphine n1ust be some dancer. After exams. we might take a trip down to the big burgh and see this show.

I THE CON'CORDIENSIS SCIENCE W.INS Steen Inning Battle Has Exciting Finish. The most nerve-racking game of baseball ever witnessed on any diamond in Schenec- tady was played in the field behind the col- lege stables on June the styx, I9I? Umpire \Prexy\ Richmond called the game at 3 :28 2-5 X. M. sharp, and at 3:28 3-5 sharp the two teams hit up a keen pace which steen innings failed to rub the edge off of most emphati- cally. At the above-mentioned time, \Spike\ Hale, the delivery battery for Culture, wound up in the manner shown in accompanying photograph and delivered the pebble over the soup dish at a startling rate of speed. \Rube\ Lyon, wbo was at the bat, laid stress upon the stick, but failed to make connections. Then and there the tension members received their maxin1um load, which they carried. throughout the game. U util the third inning the game was air-tight. Then '~Jingle\ Gar- rison walked non-chalantly up to the platter like a D. & H. local, thinking all the while of the Vassar girl who wanted to and cot1ld. \Jingle\ spat upon his palms and, grasping the stick tightly, began to tell \Spike\ about joke number Z-sub-6, namely, the one con- :cerning the picayune. \Spike\ walked him. To H with the Grand Army, said \Jingle\ as he stole second. Johnny Callen next pro- jected the pill over second. by hitting it square- ly on the axis. It described a parahola over Sister Chase's head, as projectiles are often wont to do, and came to rest after having struck the earth several times. \Jingle\ came home and Johnny went to second. Landreth knocked a pop fly, which caught Johnny off the bag, thus causing him to take the short route to the bench. Stoll bunted and was out at first. The score stood 1-0 in favor of the Science bunch. No mor~ scores came in until the eighth, when the Culture aggregation came back with the goods. Bag Stewart was at the bat when Sister Chase on the coaching line .Yelled in, \To hit or not to hit, that is the question.,, As the horsehide sailed toward the pan, 19 \'SPIKE\

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS Bag's bat advanced politely and said (vvo Hnden Sil sich):; that being the first time they had met, and without regard for such scientific stuff as gravity, the sphere sailed up and up and up in a classic, ntanner, and after making several 1ancy swerls landed in, deep center. Johnny Bennett rose to the auspiciousness of the oc- casion and brought Ba.;g home from second, whi~le he himself reposed gracefully on the aiorementioned base. Happy and Chuck struck out,. and the game stood at a tie, I-I. From the eighth ittning the ,contest was decidedly a pitchers' lattle, until the first of the steenth, when Gary got hit by a pitched ball, and was advance<! to second on Pink's single after two outs had already been re- corded. Then Pop Landreth, the Science tearn's receiving batt.ery and heavy hitter, strode :Up to the pan with weapon in hand. A deter:tnined flush sh()ll e through his beard, and remembering the many sticks which he customari;ly hands ottt, he grasped the bat in his well-dusted claws. Spike gave him three bad ones, but he didn .. 't bite. One good one came across while he waited. Another good one sailed by while lle swung like a veteran, but failed to smash it. Spike took his time and sent another g()o d one toward the pan. Pop swung, he hit, n.e ran; it was a homer. Pandemonium set in_ The culture rooters went wild. The senior civils yellod for Pop with all the vim tha,t they could summand ; old men took the hats from their bald heads and. tossed them high into the sunny atmos- phere; young men w.ept for joy, and the women hid their fa-ces while suppressing hysterics. Salathe fainted, Vosburg danced, l,ouis Case stood on his head, Taylor swore, Lee promised out te:n first grades for next terrn~ and Steinmetz dropped his cigar. Oppie flied to right, and the score stood 4-1 in fa.vor of Science. In the Culture hal:f Spike laced one out to left for a single, went to second on a passed ball, was advanced to third by Rube's sacri- ' \POP'' fice, and stole home. Spike was a ten-f'latter in his day and from appearances it seems that he could do better now. Mickey Ann vvas next to bat. After fottling fifteen times, Mickey knocked a two-bagger. 1:-loffy. \vho followed, studied the expression on Spike's face as he wound up, swung hard, with all due regard to ethics, and tapped the sphere at the psychological moment. The logical out~ come of this was a two-bagger, which landed Mickey Ann at home. Mrs. McKean gave a sigh of relief. Dutchie Barnes stepped up to wield the stick next. He rapped a high fly on the first ball over. It went up and up and up, with only a slight slanting- motion toward left field, until it was out of sight. Rube procured his transit from the engineering building and finally located the newly-made p ' ':: ' \

. ·~ <;: ,: k· ' 1:''' • l . { r: ,.,, } F . t THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 comet. There was watchful waiting then for two hours. At the end of that time the sphere came to earth and was nabbed by the invin- cible Rube. Thus ended tht• contest-4-3, in favor of Science. Line-up. Science. Culture. E. Jay ....••••.•.••. P•. • . • • • . . . .. . . . . Spike Pink .•....•.••.•••. c .••.••••...... Hoffy Pop· ........•••••••• I b.. .. • .• .. . . . . . . . . Sister Stoll .•.....•....•• 2b.. • • • • . . . . . . . Johnny Gary ...•.••••••••• 3b.. . . • • . . . . . . Dutchie Oppie •....••.••.•• ss.. . • .. . . . Mickey Ann Johnny •..••.•.••.. rf.. . • • . . . . . . . . . Chuck Jingle .....•...•••.. cf ................. Bag Rube ...••....••••• If.. . . . . . . . . . . Chorchil Umpire-Prexy. Attendance-Nineteen. PRIZE SPEEKING CONTEST Very Interesting Affair Took Place Monday Night. The anual prize speaking contest which took place in the First Presbyterian Church last Monday evening. The speakers upheld the fame which the contest has won in years past and the winners are to be congratu- lated. The awards follow: Sophomore first prize of $1.5 in gold for the best oration, C. Newell Stnith of Sche- nectady, subject, \A Plea for the Immi- grant\; second prize, $10 in gold, Charles Foster Brown of Schenectady, subject, \An Important Phase of Citizenship.\ Junior first prize, $30 in gold, James L. Fitzgerald of Ilion, subject, \Freshman Year in Col- lege\ ; second prize of $20 in gold, Henry Louis Faust of Schenectady, subject, \Prison Reform.\ Exte.mporaneous speak- ing, first prize; Raymond S. Blodgett of Jefferson ; second prize, Jerome D. Guth- mann of Schenectady. The audience listened with interest to the orations and music. At the end of the sophon1ore speaking the special subject of the extemporaneous debate was announced, '''1\he Mexican Situation.\ The orations were: Sophomores-''The Passing of War,\ Revington L. Embree, Stamford, Conn. \A plea for the Immigrant,'' C. N·ewell Smith, Schenectady. ''Tl1e Engineer and Modern Life,\ James T. Landreth, Schenectady. \An In1portant Phase of Citizenship,\ 'Charles Foster Brown, Schenectady. Juniors-\A Phase of the Minimum Wage Question,\ Donald A. Coulter, Sche- nectady. \The Value of Student Life,'' Karl E. Agan, Warrensburg. \The Freshman Year in College,\ James L. Fitzgerald, Ilion. \Prison Reform,'' Henry Louis Faust, Schenectady. The extemporaneous speakers were Ray- mond S. Blodgett '15, Jerome D. Guthmann '14, Alfred C. Meneely '14, and Morgan L. Williams '14. The prizes of $30 and $20 in gold are provided by the generosity of James A. Goodrich and Dr. Alexander Duane of New York City, members of the class of '78. The committee of judges included Dr. John Lewis March, Dr. Stanley P. Chase and Professor C. F. F. Garis. Dr. March tnade the announcements of the awards. IVY ORATION By Thomas L. Ennis. \Fellow Classmates and Friends:- This occasion is the high tide of our class rela- tionships~ Those things in our college life which have become dimmed in our mem- ories come flooding back. Not only our memories but our hearts are so :filled that we feel that a drop might overflow them. At this hour, therefore, it is my privilege, to give expression, in my own way, to senti- ments of recollection, and responsibility. \Our hearts would be dead if they were not a ,~.rake ned at this time to feelings of thankfulness to this dear institution, its

I· 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS traditions, its faculty and its president, for having inspired in us the ideals. of true manhood. And therefore, that our class and our friends may keep ever in n1~ind the grad- ual development of these ideals from the time that we were freshmen on through the future of our lives, we plant, the ivy to be an active example to onr class of an ever broadening growth, and a characteristic testimony to our Alma Mater of the princi- ples of life through which we hope to honor her. \For us, at this time, or at any time, to pass lightly upon the pleasant associations of our undergraduate life would be un- natural and stupid. I feel, however, that we are too often inclined to give too little consideration to pure sentiment. In the ever increasing complexity of social life the idea of organization and efficiency is liable to become so extended as to entirely shut out in the course of time from our interests, those remembrances which will quicken our hearts to greater loyalty to both our class and our college. We will do well, as \¥e grow into the different spheres of activity which we enter, if we keep fresh the old enthusiasm and spirit hich prompted us to carry our classmates on our shoulders from the athletic field, to gather at the idol to defend our class's reputation for prowess, and to organize pajama parades and mili- tary expeditions against the Mexicans. All these things which have brought us into closer relationships have in turn created an atmosphere of cheerful optimism in our col- lege community. This atmosphere, which is so quickly felt by the stranger as he en.- ters ottr walls, possesses a consciousness of strength and a willingness which are so characteristic of true success. It would be indeed a pity if we should allow the senti- ments of our college days to be forgotten. \It is our proud privilege to be able to shoulder the responsibilities of life which graduation from Union College will bring upon us. I find it very difficult to under- stand this great movement in society called social unrest and consequently I find it still more difficult to analyze clearly just what our responsibilities, toward it are. But,. I am sure that, as Union College graduates, our chief responsibility is to carry the high ideals which w·e have learned to cherish here into whatever spheres of life we may enter. This is indeed a lofty responsibility but not one unjustly imposed upon us. ·we have in Lincoln a remarkable exan1ple of a man who realized his responsibilities toward society and then shouldered then1. It was a common sight to see him, even at the tin1e he was president, walking beside a bent-over old woman and carrying her heavy basket or load. I think that, if we are able to put his kindly spirit into our lives, we will find little difficulty in accomplish- ing our chief responsibility and less diffi- culty in understanding social unrest. \In conclusion, I think, that we should emphasi-ze the individual responsibility which each mem her of our class must s boul- der. In this connection let us remember the words of President Richmond to the Class of 1913 in his baccalaureate sermon. The -vvords were these-'N o man can be hanrls aPd brain and heart to another man. Each of us must make his own journey on his own feet.' Let us, then, as a class and as individuals, dedicate ourselves to the hest traditions of Union College and to the greatest needs of our country.\ R. P. 1., 3-UNION, 4 In ~ game that throbbed and pulsated with thrills, that went ten innings, most of the student body of R. P. I. saw their team go down to defeat o~ the campus Saturday, June 6th. In the tenth inning, after R. P. I. had pulled out one run in their half, with t1vo men down, with first and third bases clogged with eager base runners, \Teddy\ Woods went down in baseball history by lining out as pretty a two-bagger as ever kissed the cinder-track back in center £eld. . l '. l 1,:''1 ~··· t '\-' ;\.: • I ) I l ; ~ ~ ' ' i J: i l ) ,' \ I

. l '. t ' i l: ;· T·HE CONCORDIENSIS 23 Score : Union; 4; R .. P. I., 3. But the game was not won with 1mpunity. Had it not been for a miraculous heave by Jake Beaver in the ninth; R. P. I. would have gone home victorious. Behan, a svvrartly gentleman fron1 across the river nestled on first when Tubby Rosecranz p1ayed jack-straws with his daisy-cropper. H ummcr immediately proceeded to fan the next two batters but Ted Merrick, the per- renial bloomer on the R. P. I. pitcher's m-ound, laced out a clean hit over third. Jake rnnning in clamped to the ball and 'i\Tith one jesture heaved it home just as Behan was speeding around the third base bag. fake's big brother Dave who holds 'em down for Hummer speared the throw and dove for Behan, getting him a foot from the pia. te. Business of sighs~of-relief from the Un-ion bleacher5. R. P'. I. had the pleasure of hanging up a run apiece in the first two innings, but after that Union tightened up behind Hummer and kept the score down. In the sixth. Jake Beaver kit a nice Texas leaguer back of third: \Teedy\ Woods laced out a clean hit w}1,ich sent Jake around to third. 'Then Old Fox Naumann, grasping his trusty bludgeon leaned on one of Mr. Merrick's ~}loots for three perfectly good bases, bring- ing in Jake and \Teedy\. Score now tied, 2 to 2. There was no more scoring until the tenth, when R. P. I. slipped one run across the plat- ter. And then, after an altercation as to whether Beaver interfered with a throw by the R. P. I. second baseman; a run which Houghton tallied was disallowed and \Erny\ sent back to third. Then up rose \Teedy\-· \Teedy\ of the massive intellect. \Teedy\ used that intellect. Says '\Teedy\ to himself, says he: \There's Friday on first. Merrick will think that I will let the first ball go by to give Bill a chance to get down to second. So Merrick will try to slip one across on me, and put a strike over for that first baU. The ,chances are that it'll be right down the groove. Ergo. I'll take a el\lance on that one ! \ Oh, bay of promise! Oh, rare pomegranate in the garden of Allah ! Oh, incipent thinker whose tho~t~,~h.ts go! It was! It was! He did-he did.! That first ball sailed up, true and honest, right across that plate-and \Teedy\ ---he- did - certainly- wallop that pippin on tbe nose ! The score: R. P. I. Conklin,, 3) ............ 4 Culver, c:f. . •........... 4 Huyck, U~,. • ....•...... 4 Higbee, rt ............. 5 Gallagher:, 2b. . ......... 5 Behan,. lf. . ......•..... 4 McManus, ss ........... 4 Wood worth., c. . .•...... 4 Merrick, p. . •.......... 3 Totols .. , ...••........ 37 UNION Kearney, c:f. • ••.••.•..• 5 Friday, rf... ............. 3 J. Beaver, lf ........•.. 5 Houghton., lb. . ........ 5 Woods, Jv.. . ........... 4 Nauman, ss. . .......... 3 D. Beaver,, c. . .•....... 4 Rose'cranz, 2b. . ........ 4 Hummer., :P- ..•••.•••.. 4 Totals ..•........... 37 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 3 1 1 0 0 16 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 1 2 0 1 1 1 0 6 l 2 1 9 8 *29 14 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 1 1 1 8 0 2 2 1 2 3 2 0 14 0 0 0 1 0 0 5 7 30 10 *Two out when winning run was scored. Score by innings : Errors-. Behan, Gallagher, 2; RosecranzJ 2; Woods, Beaver. Three-base hit- ... Nau- man. Two-base hits-Nauman,. Woods, Conklin.. Sacrifice hits-Woods, Huyck. Stolen b~ses- Conklin. Higbee, Behan, Huyck, Friday, J. Beaver. Bases on balls- Off Hummer, 3; off Merrick, 2. Hit by pitched ball- Friday. Struck out- By Hummer, 12; by Merrick, 7. Double play- Hummer to Nauman to Houghton. Um- pire-Glenn.

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIEN,SIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N~ Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, 'IS, 3 Regent Street ATHLETlC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, 'IS, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, I6 N. A. Finch '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS J. C. Buc~anan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamon t Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHENECTADY ART PREss 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TO NINETEEN-FOURTEEN In the September of 1910 the faculty of Union College opened the doors, as they are often wont to do, to another class-the class of 1914. They were a bright-looking bunch o£ lads for freshmen, and after being crowned with the pea-green cap they settled down in good shape and began what seemed to them at the time to be an endless toil. Now how differently they look upon it. \If we could but clip the wings of time,\ has been the char- acteristic thought of each one throughout his upper-class man days. They have learned to love that for which they have worked-their Alma Mater. They have learned to govern her yo~nger children, to guard her old and honored traditions, to respect her ancient cus- toms, to regard her laws as sacred, and to be- lieve in and trust her precepts. During their freshman year, they learned to obey; when they became sophomores they taught this les- son to their younger college mates. In their Junior year, they learned to govern. And the senior year just passed shows how thoroughly this lesson was Learned. Their acts as under- classmen were commendable, their adminis- tration as seniors has been irreproachable. In some matters of importance they have been pioneers; in others they have been faithful followers; in all things they have shown wis- dom, strength and loyalty. And now, what a calamity has overtaken us! These, our seniors, our strong administrators, our wise counselors, our loyal supporters, have left us. They have gone to broader fields of work to plod and strive and fight, to work and trust and win. They have gone where their efforts will shine forth to better advantage and will shine back upon the in- stitution which reared them into the world of knowledge, trust and strife. They have left us to to take their places in the world of business-the cold, cold world, as it is some- times called. They have left with us a grand example, coupled with the memory of their just and wise administration, so thoroughly carried out to the end, so successfully pushed forward to the last minute. For these things we give them our hearty thanks, and our promise that the trusts which they have placed in our hands will not be violated. We promise them that their ex- ample will be followed, that their precepts will be observed, and that the work which they have done will not be undone under the new regime. Furthermore, we have a request ),

i I I ' 1 I I I ' ~ ), THE CONCORDIENSIS to make of them as they depart, a request which they may regard as useless. We wish to ask their support as alumni. They have lreft the grey old walls, but is their task completed? They have received their diplomas and have ceased to be active members of our college body, but does this carry with it their dis- missal from all college work and responsi- bility ? Their task, on ceasing to be students of Union College, is to begin their work as active and interested alumni. We feel sure that they will assume this responsibility as readily as they assumed the responsibilities which active college life placed upon them, and that they will attend to all matters which may come before them as Union alumni with the same dispatch and diligence which has characterized them throughout the past four years. That they will never give us cause for disappointment in this matter is the one favor which we now wish to ask of them, the one request which we make to them as they sorttetimes even among the upperclassmen. The symptoms of the disease show them- selves in words of disatisfaction and wild speculations about how rn uch better off a man may be if he discontinue his college course before it is completed. When over- heard by men who have a compl;ete under- standing of the situation there words are merely laughed at and so they should be .. They are but an overflowing· of the wise- fool-like-ness which characterizes some men of the undergraduate age and from which the word sophomore is derived. For your own sake then, fellow-student, we urge you depart. As they go out into the world they are fol- lowed by every fond wish which we can give them, and by every endearing word of fare- well which could follow in their footsteps. As students they served Old Union well, as alumni they may serve her better. Godspeed 1914. As students we bid you farewell, as alumni we bid you welcome. May success crown all efforts which you put forth, \for Union, for our country and the right.\ COME BACK ACCOMPANIED There exists in every college a disease known as the Sophomore fever. Strange to say, this disease is not limited to Sopho- mores as the name seems to signify, but spreads about among the freshmen ·and to come back. Another force should enter into the argu- ment. In the early days of your college life your · college gives you advantages ,;vhich you are not able to repay in your underclassman years. In fact, you are not able to repay them in ·your upperclassn1an years but you are then able to make a fair start and have the seed planted from which your Alma Mater may reap good fruit after you become an alumnus oJ some years standing. Hence, for Union's sake, finish your course. But this is not all. We wish to keep our numbers sn1all but we also wish to make our men picked men. To do this we must have a large number to choose from. Think it over but don't fail to arrive at the conclusion that you can and should and will bring back a freshman and a good one next September. We wish you a pleasant vaca- tion and all sorts of luck. TEAS HELD BY FRATERNITIES Monday afternoon was certainly one of .action for the fraternities, th~ee of them holding teas on that date. Those crowds

THE CONCORDIENSIS which held teas Monday afternoon were: Psi Upsilon, Kappa Alpha and Beta 'Theta Pi, and from all reports they were most en- joyable occasions from a11 standpoints. The Sigma Phi Place was the scene of a delight- ful dance on Monday evening. To this dance the upper-classn1en of the various crowds on the ''hill\ were invited and most of the fra- ternities were represented by two or more members. BACCALAUREATE SERMON Delivered by Dr. Charles Alexander Rich- mond at the l18th Commencement. Doctor Richmond chose his text from John xxi, 24: \Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it die, it bringet11 forth much fruit.\ vestments and the seamless white robe, that was all. He secured no political or personal influence over his age. He had no place among men o~ letters of his day-he is hard- ly mentioned. He was not even recognized as a great religious teacher, excepting by a few obscure disciples. He founded no fam- ily. When he died upon the cross, what remained, a scattered band of weak, dis- coura;ged men who were forced before long to hide themselves in caves and dens of the earth to save their very lives. The Jew and Greek and Roman of his day would have laughed to scorn the claims of Jesus to permanence. But the Temple of Jerusalem is only a memory and Athens of the Greek a rttin, and Rome a shadow of her old self, living only because it is a Christian and not a Pagan Rome. And Jesus Christ, on his cross, has stretched out his arms to embrace the whole world. The prophecy is fulfilled, ''And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me.\ And here we find the most per- fect expression of the principle we started with : ''Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.\ He addressed the assemblage as follows: \'We have in this statement at once a paradox, a law, and a daily miracle,\ he said. \The price of Hfe is death. The new and nobler form is built on the ruins of the old. Strange as it is, we have come to know and accept this truth. In one aspect we call it the law of evolution; in another, the principle of sacrifice. Higher organisms are evolved by merciless sacrifice. Civiliza- tions, governments, systems, philosophies are all the fruits of buried seeds. Jesus has bis own life and death in mind in this figure -the purpose of his mission .and the method of it. The corn of wheat perished. Jt failed. As an individual, it became nothing; it was lost in the harvest. This is true. also. of Jesus. From one point of view his life was a failure. He was born a Jew; nothing could have been a greater misfortune in those days of Roman domina- tion. The Jews were a despised and op- pressed race. He had almost no opportun- ity 1n his childhood. A poor man's son, he acrt u ired no property; he was not even in- de9endent: he was almost a beggar. When lle di~d the soldiers divided his estate--his Development Necessity of Life. \It is clear, of course, that development is a necessity of all life. Take in your hand a seed of any kind, put it beside a ruby or an emerald-you call one a precious stone-it is rare and the seed is cotnmon, bnt observe. the stone, rare as it is, can only be one precious stone. Not so with the seed: 1t has millions of seeds in it-a vision of plenty-waving harvests and busy reap- ers; ships plow across the unharvested seas and hungering thousands 'hold out their hands to receive the increase of this corn of wheat. It is resurrected from its burial in the earth and begins a new and infinite life. And so it is with human life, for this is a la'v of all life. Some seeds fail-as do some lives-but every infant soul born into th1~ ~rorlrl is a seed of promise. You look '' I t,_'. ' 1 ,~· ' ~.· t .. ..,,,

,, '' I' : L I \·.' ',.I I ol ~: 1 . <',,' THE CONCORDIEN,SIS upon a child, the most inspiring and won- derful thing in all the world. He cannot speak, nor think, nor do anything with his tiny hands. But time goes on; the child has gro,wn a man; his eloquence is swaying thousands ; his thought is influencing a na~ tion; his hands are relieving want; his genius has opened new vistas to the human mind; an invention of his brain has light- ened the labors, softened the pain, eased the ;lot of his whole generation This will be true of many a little child smiling up into his mother's face tonight. It will be true, each in its order, of every living soul, for every man of us who takes up his task and fills out the measure of his duty will be develop- ing a.U the time to the very end of his days. The rythm of his life will be set to the song 'l1eard by the poet from the hollow of the spiral shell of the chambered nautilus: \:Build tbee more stately mansions, Oh my soul As the swift seasons roll Leave thy low vaulted past Let eC\ch new temple nobler than the last Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast Till thou at length are free. Leaving thine outgrown shell By life's unresting sea.\ Death Is· New Life. ''Eut always it is true that the law of this development is the law of sacrifice. Li1e through death-a paradox-what the disciples called a hard saying, hard to them, no less hard to use. 'He that loseth his life .RhaH find it.' 'Except a corn of wheat die.' Death is extinction---loss, decay, darkness, ruin. Not so, says Jesus. death is new life; death is light and growth and joy. The (1.eath of self, self live, self interest, is the birth of the new life. The hard husk of the seed. decays and falls away, then, and only then, is the seed germ set free. Jesus ~howerl the way, the only way, and that too is an old story-the story of the cross. l'\]o tnan ever learns the secret of 1ife until he learns that principle. No man ever knows success till he knows this. No man eve-r feels the real thrill of life until he feels the joy of sacrifice. We sotneti:mes think and speak of the martyrs, past and present, in terms of pity. They vvant no man's pity. It is we '¥ho deserve their pity- the com- mon n1en who live in the dull routine of eat, drink and sleep, getting and spending. It is they who have learned the lesson of the corn of wheat, who know the secret of the Saviour's triumph and the Saviour's joy. These are the successful men-the happy m,en, the triumphant men of the world. And their number is not small. The noble army of martyrs is a great army,. Stephen stoned to death; Peter cricified ; Paul beheaded; Perpetua thrown to the 1 ions; Poly carp wrapped in his triumphal robes of flame-all these are there.. So also is Socrates, taking with perfect calmness tbe deadly cu.p-a witness for the truth. And so are thousands more whose names were never known; the patient man of science, spending health and strength and .long years of toil searching out the secre~s of matter and motion and their relation to life; the silent men, enduring without com- plaint for the sake of a principle or the s.uccess of a cause; the explorer, finding- new lands; the poineer, subduing them- the poet, the musician, the artist, mounting back on the wings of eagles and bringing back to us his vision of beauty in a song or a pic- ture ; the scholar, burning his midnight oil that he may interpret to us the thought ~nd experience of the past; the soldier and the sailor who simply knows his duty, live or die; the common every-day man, too. if he is putting his heart into his work. We think of martyrs as they are pictured in Fox's famous book, with its tu rid and fas- cinating- pictures of torture- flames and racks. hot pinchers a nci mangled human bodies; Sebastian pierced with arrows, St.

THE CONCORDIENSIS Lawrence on his gridiron. But this in only the superficial side of it. The real meaning of all this passed in to a proverb: 'The blood of the martyr is the seed of the church.' And this is 1.:!-niversal. A n1artyr is a witness for the truth. Men have gladly died for her; men die for her in these un- romantic days. They live for her,. which is harder still, and when a n1an lives for the truth, he dies to self. And so t1le death of these witnesses, or martyrs, beco.mes the seed buried in the ground. The seed of science and of art and of literature; the seed of civilization, the seed of a purer, higher, sweeter life for man on this earth. Must Efface Self. \Do not imagine that these things have come, or can come, without the presence in this world of men, large numbers of men, who are willing to bury themselves, to sur- render self, that they may come to life and light in other and higher selves. Perhaps I can bring this principle home to you by approaching it from another point. \Here is the whole matter of education in which we are all so much interested. It is not altogether a business · of acqutrtng knowledge, but knowledge is at least a part of it. A man can hardly be called an edu- cated man unless he knows something. But how do we come to know? Certainly by opening the mind. We say of a student-a real student~that he buries himself in his books. A man who sits over his books with his eye on the clock will never be a student and he will never be a fruitful man, intel- lectually speaking. The mind must be buried in the field of knowledge or it will abide alone. The beauty, the truth, the ac- cumulated riches of other minds, treasured and preserved in that field, will never yield themselves to the isolated mind. The corn of wheat must die; the surrender of the mind must come first and then, in due time, the growth and the fruitfulness: 'first the blade, then the ear and after that the full . ' corn in the ear. \And I need hardly say that success, even on the lower plane, is conditioned· on the acceptance of this same principle. No 1nan will ever win out unless he forgets himself -surrenders himself, buries hi1nself in the calling. His treasure field must be his life work. If it is anywhere else, he will fail, for 'where the treasure is there will the heart be also.' But I 'vant, if I can, to put this all upon the highest plane. I want to touch the chord of chivalry which is ready to vibrate in every human heart- especially every young human heart-if we can only sound the right note. There is a kind of inspiration in the sight of the army of young men and women com- ing out of the doors of our colleges at this time of year, and faring forth into life, as we caJl it. I do not idealize them, I know them too well. They are a good deal like the rest of us. They have their own ambi- tions; their own selfish hopes and desires. Some of them will grow stale· and spoil -perhaps a few of them are spoiled already -but most of these young men come burst- ing into life full of high purposes with pure unselfish ideals. Very many of them want, and mean, to bury their lives like kernels of wheat that they may spring into fruit- fulness. Love of God and home and coun- try is at the heart of these young men. And here is the strength and the hope of our co11ntry ; in the life poured into it year by year, in the new seed buried in its fields. \Here is the chance for the patriot-the patriot in business and in letters; the patriot in law. in medicine, in the ministry, in en- gineering, in every range of human life. A chance for the man who cares for his coun- try and for his fellow men. A chance for everyone who has in him the spirit of the man who first taught the principle of the buried seed and who made it good with his life. And this, young men, is the real test of your patriotism. It is not death that makes a patriot but the willingness to die. .. \

28 Tl-IE CO~CORDlE:\SIS La\vre11ce on his gridiron. But this in only the superficial side of it. 'fhe real n1eaning of all this passed into a proverb: \'fhe blood of the 111artyr is the seed of the church.' .t-\nd this is universal. r\ tnanyr is a vvi tness for the truth. ~len h a \·e gladly died for her; n1cn die for her in these un- rc >In antic days. 'fh ey 1i ve for hert v\' h ich is harder still, and '\hen a tnan 1 ives for the truth, he dies to se If. i\nd so the cleat h of tbese ·witnesses, or n1artyrs, becon1e~ the seed buried in the ground. 'The seed of science and of art and of literature; the S('cd of civi1i7atiun. the seed of a put-err higher, sv,.:eeter life for tnan on this earth. Must Efface Self. \Do not in1ag;ine that these things have con1e, or can con1e. without the pre~~ence in th1s v..rorld of n1en, large numbers of 1net1, \vho are \villing to bury the1nselves, to sur- r en de r s <\ 1 f. that they 111 a y corn e to 1i f e and light in other and higher selves. Perhaps I ran hring this principle hon1e to you hy approaching it fron1 another point. ''T-Tere is the \Yhole matter of education in which we are all so tnnch interested. It 1s nnt altngcther a business ()f acqn1nng knovv1edge. hut knnV\.:ledge is at 1ea:-;t a. prtrt of it. ;\ n1an can hardlv he ca11e<l an e<IU- ca ted tnan UTI 1C'SS he knnVvS Sotn c-th in g. nut hn\v cl1) \\·e cnnH.~ to know? C\:rt ain1y by oren 1 n g t he n1 1 n d . \\ ~ e sa v of a :-=. t u ci n1 t- --a rf'a 1 s tu(1ent --that he bn ries h in1 ~elf 1 n l1 i~ hnoks. .t\ man \Yho sits over his hnoks with hi~ eve on the clock vvitl never he a st udcnt and hr \\'111 never he a fruitfnl man. inte1- 1ectu a lh· speaking. The n1 i nd nrust be h u r i e d i n 1 h e f1l' 1 (1 n f k no' v le ( 1 g- e () r i t \\' 111 ah1cle alone. The beauty. the truth. the ac- cu mula terl ric' hes of other m i tHl s, treastt red and preserved in that field. V\·i11 never yifld themselves to the isolated n1ind. 'The corn of 'A· heat must die~ the surrender of the n1.ind must come first and then. in dne tin1e. the growth and the fruitfulness: 'first the blad~. then the ear and after that the full corn in the ear.' '' .r\nd l need hardly say that success, even on the lo\ver plane, is conditioned on the acceptance of this san1e principle. ~ o 111an vvill ever win out unless he forgets hin1seif -surrenders h in1seli, buries hi1nself in the calli11g. llis treasure ticld 111ust he his life work. If it is anywhere else, he will [ai 1, for ·where the treasure is there will the heart be also.' Uut I \Vant, if I can, to put this all upon the highest plane. 1 \''ant to touch the chord of chivalrv which is ready to vibrate . ~ in every hutnan heart- especially every young hun1an heart-if we can only sound the right note. 'fhcre is a kind of inspiration in the sight of the arrny of young n1en and \NOlnen com- ing- out of the doors of our colleges at this tin1e of year, and faring forth into life, as we call it. I do not idealize them, I know then1 too we11. They are a good deal like the re~t of us. They have their own an1 bi- tions: their O\-vn selfish hopes and desires. Senne of them will grow stale and spoil -perhaps a few of then1 are spoiled alreadv ---hut 1nost of these young n1en cotne burst- ing into life ft1ll of h1gh purposes \Vith pure un,elf1sh ideals. \'cry n1anv nf thetn want ~ ~ ' and n1ean. to hnry their lives like kernels elf \vheat that they tnay spring into fruit- rulne .. :-;. Lu\-e ()f Gnd and hntne and coun- t r y i ~ at t h e h <'art < , f t h c s c yon n g tn en . :\ n d here is the strength and the hope of our C\nnt ry: in the life poured into it year hy y·~ar. in the new seed buried in it~ field~. \l r ere i~ the chance for the patriot-thE' patriDt in bu~jnC's~ and in letters: the patriot in law. i11 tnedicine. in the tninistry. in en- !..::i 11 <:l' r1 n g·. in ('very rang-e nf h 11m an I i fe. .-\ chance for tht: tnan \vho cares for his coun- try and for hi::; felln\v n1en. A. chance for e\·er~vn:H' who has in hin1 the spirit of the n1an \\·hn first tang-ht the principle of the ln1ried ~eed and \Vhn n1ade it good with his 11 f e. :\ n d this, y n u n g tn en . is the rea 1 test of vonr patriotisrn. Tt is not death that n1 akes a patriot but the willingness to die. \ I \ \

a 0 m m ~ m - m ~ z w - u 0 ~ 0 u z 0 u w I r 0 r r z w ~ w J a a ~ m

T\\\ ()) 'il\'\\' iL 0 {J) en <! \[) ~ (f) .J z ...; - u 0 'Y ~~ () u z ,'\'\ J I\ v J.l I i- ~, I ~ ...... r- -,. L u ~ lu -' a. a. - (JI )

'fHE CONCORDIENSIS 29 In Japan the burial service is read over every young recruit as he goes out to fight her battles. They die to seH-· henceforth, they are alive only to their country. It is so I would have it with every young man who goes out from this and every other college in the land. It is no com1non obliga- tion assumed by college men. We are men of privilege. We have been spared for four years fr01n the productive forces of the country-· others have worked and saved that v1e might study and spend. Some of you know how hard the struggle has been at home to supply the means to keep you here a11d to bring you to this Jay. \t\fhat is all this sacrifice for! To give us an advan- tage over others in the battle of life, to enable us to trample down the weaker and win our way to money and power for our own selfish ends? God forbid any college man should go out with so mean a. concep- tion of his privilege. No, this sacrifice is made that a finer germ of life 1night be produced in you and now it is your priv- ilege, as it is your duty, to go out and bury this seed in the earth. Whatever of bra111, or skill, or energy has been develop~cl in you in these years belongs to God and to your fellow men. You will go on year by year to more knowledge and to ampler power but the measure of your life will be found in the completeness of your self-sur- render. 'Except a corn of wheat fall into . the ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.' \Gentlemen of the Graduating Class : \The moment when a man stands at the parting of the ways is no ordinary moment in his life. It is a time when a n1an takes account of hirnself; thinks back, often with regret, over the past; looks with some anxious thoughts into the future. This is where you stand tonight. The past four years are what we have made them. We have shared life together. I believe we have helped each other. Certainly, it would be a pity if the close companionship of these years had not .made us better and wiser n1en. Speaking for myself and, with their indulgence, also, for the faculty, I want you to know that your friendship has made my life richer and that your loyalty has often brought tne nevv courage and hope. You have taught us something; we trust, timid- ly, that we have taught you a little. And now we send you out upon your separate ways. From now on you must walk alone. You will often miss the support of the comrades that have stood around you here. I hope you will sometimes think kindly of us as 've shall alvvays think of you. What we have tried to do for you has been to start you in the right direction. To give you sound principles for the heart as well as for the mind. Many ships put out fro1n the same port but when they reach the sea each takes his own direction and soon they are lost to one another. Each one sets his own course but they all steer by the same star-Polaris-friend and guide of each lone mariner. J\1ay I set one star in your heavens-a star to set your course by a principle-a truth which has been the guid- ing light of the best as well as the wisest of men. 'He that saveth his life shall lose it, but he that loseth his life the same shall find it.' \ BIGGEST ALUMNI NIGHT IN UNION'S HISTORY Those who participated in the festivities of Alumni Night on the \hill\ know just how nicely everything went off and realize that, with the advantage of the new gymnasium and of the complete organization of the \stunts the grandest celerbation of its kind was pulled of£ on the R. C. Alexander athletic field at the I 18th Commencement of Union College. The reunion and undergraduate classes as- sen1bled inside the athletic field gate soon after 8 o'clock and fell into line in the order

30 THE CONCORDIENSIS of their seniority. The parade made one tour of the quarter-mile track surrounding the field and came to a halt in front of Pres- ident Charles A. Richmond's box in the sec- ond balcony of the gymnasium. After several impromptu songs by various classes, the sing- ing contest for the FitzHugh Ludlow Cup \\i\ras held. Each of the undergraduate classes gathered about its class standard and sang in the order of seniority, the seniors using, in addition to an original song, a medley. The juniors sang a familiar tune, for which orig- inal words were written, and the sophomores sang a class song which was written for the occasion. The class of '17, which was award- ed the cup for the best showing in the con- test, sang an original class song, which was written by H. Ralph Knight of Glens Falls. In the singing the juniors used red lights and formed a large I 5 with their lights. After the singing contest came the torch relay race. The seniors came out first in this contest, with Mudge as initial runner, i'ollowed by Truex, Barclay and Baker. The juniors ranked second, with a team composed of Dent, Hunter, J. Beaver and Byron. 1917 crossed the tape third. The best stunt of the evening was that of the Cosmopolitan Club bull fight. In this fight Brazilians mounted on frisky horses, capable of all four speeds ahead and several reverse, and then added side notions, charged the bull and waved the aggravating red blankets. Eventually the bull became too tired for fur- ther flagging and sat upright for a complete rest in the middle of the ring. At this critical moment, \Mike\ summoned the cleverest of the fighters and sent him into the ring to do the \dirty work,\ to end the struggle, and that at a time when the bull needed rest. Shouts from the spectators declared the torea-- dor victor and the fellow Brazilians carried their hero off the field. The alumni con1- rnittee succeeded in scoring a hit with the bull fight, for many pronounced it the best event of the program. Ludlow Cup Presented. Thro~ghout the celebration powder bombs were fired off from the roof of the ''gyn1\ and the colored spot lights turned on them. After th.e bull fight and general chaos, in which aU classes participated, adding songs, snake dances., marching; the bands their music and the 191 I pig, another runaway, the class of rgr 7 was called to the gyn1nasium steps where, Miss Helen Ludlow, sister of FitzHugh Ludlow, author of the Union Alma Mater, presented the Fitzi-Iugh Ludl.o\v Song Trophy of Union to the freshtnen class, the victors of the song contest. Miss Ludlow gave this trophy to the college this year, and hereafter the contest will be a permanent fea- ture of the alumni night celebration. In ad- dressing the freshmen, Miss Ludlow said : \Men of Union, gentlemen of the class of 1917, you have brought new triutbe to your Alma Mater tonight. You have 'crowned her with pearls of singing.' In token thereof in behalf of her graduate council, I am privi- leged and proud to now present you in her name, 'the FitzHugh Ludlow Song Trophy of Union.'\ After the award of the Ludlow cup, the undergraduates and alumni formed the block \U\ and sang the Alma Mater, which brought the celebration to a close. VESPER SERVICE HELD UNDER NOTT ELM Interesting ExeTcise Marked Beginning of Commencetnent. With the vesper service conducted last Sunday by Rev. Dr. Edward T. Carroll of Amsterdam, Union opened its one };lundred and ,eighteenth Commencement. Dr. Carroll rendered the occasion both enjoyable and in- structive by choosing a subject which was extremely well adapted to the occasion. He said that a man's life enters into his occupa- tion as much as his occupation enters into his life. Saint Paul's life was offered by Dr. Carroll as an example of a life upon which II I • \ r

.· \ ;.-,.· .. ;1··· .~ : .{ I>/ , , .I! ~ 1'.·. ,:~ :;,:: . ·,::-' ·\ .. ' . j > . THE CONCORDIENSIS 31 ALMA MATER the narrow doctrine, which the business world preaches, had no effect. Saint Paul was a tent-maker, but he did not confine himself to his trade, but, looking for the greater things in life, found them in the following of his Words and Music by William Aivin Mudge Master. \Have some purpose outside of and over- circling everything that you do,\ advised Dr. Carroll, \and do not let the mere filling up of the ten working hours of ~each day be your sole purpose.\ He advised the outgoing class to have some ideal, some thought of holiness and goodness in life mingled with the mat- ters which take up the majority of a man's hours. The weather was threatening and before the service was over a shower drove some of those in attendance from the scene, but very little harm was done by the rain, and those who stayed throughout the service were well repaid. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS At a meeting of the Cosmopolitan Club the follpwing officers were elected for the . comtng year. J. A. Ribiero, president; J. Howard Soler, vice-president; J. C. Souza, treasurer; J. S. Vianna, secretary; S. Escalanti, corre- sponding secretary. Four teams, Cincinnati Reds, New York Americans, Wilkes Barre and Utica are dickering for the services of Captain Royce of Hamilton College. Royce is the sensa- tion in collegiate circles this season. In two games, he struck out forty-one men. The fraternities of New York University have decided to purchase a silver scholar- ship cup to be held by the fraternity whose members, as a whole, have the highest aver- age for one semester. The fraternities in- tend to co-operate with the faculty in rais- ing the standard of scholarship of the fra- ternity men. (lg14 Class Song) Union, Alma Mater, Thy dear name we praise, Throughout life's journey, Hearts to thee we'll raise. Hail, mother of true men! Now thy sons salute thee, And with voices loud and strong, p,roclaim once more they oft-told glory. Chorus As a Mother loves her son, And the son her glad voice hears, Does our Alma Mater guide us With a hand unmoved by fears, Should succes our efforts crown, As we journey down life's way, Never shall we cease to stand For Union, Right, and Liberty ! Sages of our nation, Professors, Union's sons, Thine be praise and honor For the work you've done. As you, in our lessons, Taught us right from wrong, We would pray you will teach others, Who will join us in our song. Comrades, true and noble, One grand little band, That 'round the grim Idol Joined each other's hand. We'll love, reverence, cherish Our grand Alma Mater, Seat of stone, dear grey old walls, And praise thee with a song of honor. Though worlds may grow silent, Tongues, speechless and still, Life lose all its pleasures, And our hands, their skill. Though fortune forsake us As we go our way. Memories, thoughts, will ever bring us Back to Union's College Days.

' i. 32 THE CONCORDIENSIS r AL'MA MATER 1914 Class Song, Union College Words and Mmsic by William A. Mudge Vo ·c. r: ' I - -- - _.,. _ .... _1:7 I I I .I tr, .. - I .. - ..... . v F \P ... -Go 'Pi ca. I'\() 1 ---- '' . .,.---- ... _.._ .- -. -t:. .. -411 1- d ,.j ~-- ' ,,..,-- ..: - ,... Gil '' _ !1;:1 _I _ I _I_A.),_ ... • - I I - ~ 'JL .. I _.... ! ' ~ '. .. ,. .- ..-. ...... ~ f' p ..... -· -~ -l ... ~ - - --\ --\'. - J: I• It-' :Ill' r-' : ~ ~ I - ·-~· I ~ .,.. I ~ I • ... I v ..... ..-..I Y» - L _ .. n, r- ·I c ,c) • - - - ~- ~ p- ~~ -~ J r:;;-..A ... i- •• _., ~· .. ~ ~ - . • _\1' .... -- ..- I ..... I IX\\. ... -\\\ ... I ..& - t;.~ \\''' 1- ..& Q ..._,. ... - .. < Fnf\ ~~:: .:e ! .,~ 1: - • -~- ... * • ~ .. - .. . ... I _1_ - ::J.• -- •- - t - ' r ~ -· ~- -- ,. • J I - .. J I l • • _) _l I J --. .-.1 v ' ~~J ~~~ ~ t ~ l ~ J \! ~-41 -~~-- --~ - ..oCiiilro ~ '\:Ill - /C_ ·~ <r . ·~ ,. u ,, . == ~ .:l !\ -I: l =~ ~!!\' • .. . -- I•';\ . ~ ~ ~ ~ .... 1- ~li' ~ ~ ~ ·•· ~ -~ ~- ~ .. ~ ~ ~ ff ~~ '> hlllf. t Q Cl > r.\\ > ··-~ }. l I ) ~ ro.ll. - - - - .. - I ') \) - •

' i. TH·E c·oNCORDIENSIS JJ Con molto extJressione _f r_ :( l I ~t • I .C) - t;...,J .... - - .. ...... -i7- Ill\ ~- •r- --~ I .. .. .. , . II-' r-• -r- -~ ,.. ~~ I - I' . j J£ h .:= \~ \m'\r -- • ' ! . ~ '. ... - - .. p ... ..oe·\\ . .., - \, ~ ~ -· =t. t.. .. -....._ ! = =- I ~..- - • • _C:-\• - t:: II ._ I . ~ t::: - - ·~ Ill- ~ r- :~ : .. t= ·- ~ 1- - ~ lr.\. \ .. ( - - \- .. ' POCO rit ···--··-~ .! '\il J; ,. • - - - -- 1 -- _.... ~· - .. ... - .. - - ·~ ,. ··-~ ' ostenwto - - · ,.

34 THE C:QN·CORDIENSIS IT COULDN~T BE DONE Somebody said it couldn't be done, But he with a chuckle replied That maybe it couldn't, but he would be one Who wouldn't say so till he'd tried. So he buckled right in, with the trace of a 0 grtn On his face. If he worried, he hid it. He started to sing as he tackled the thing 'rhat couldn't be done; and he did it. Somebody scoffed, \Oh you'll never do that; At least, no one has ever done it,\ But he took off his coat, and he took off his hat; And the first thing we knew he'd begun it. With the lift of his chin and a bit of a grin, Without any doubting or quiddit, He started to sing as he tackled the thing That couldn't be done; and he did it. There are thousands to tell you it cannot be done; There are thousands to prophesy failure; There are thousands to point out to you, one by one, The dangers that wait to assail you. But just buckle in with a bit of a grin, Then take off your coat and go to it~ Just start in to sing as you tackle the thing That \cannot be done\; and you'll do it. -Ike Harris. In a game played on May g, between Tufts and Williams, six double plays were made, four hy Williams and two by Tufts. By a vote of 218 out of 314 ballots cast. the students of Allegheny College last week adopted an honor system. The class of 1914 at Williams has plan- ned to give the college $25,000 in the year 1939. The busy bee's a fttrtny bird, The cause of pain and sorrow ; He gathered honey yesterday, .He'll eat it up tomorrow. He labors every shining hour To fill the honey-comb; And, though he wanders far and wide; He brings the bacon home. Two extracts from a review of Willis T. Hanson, Jr.'s, \The Early Li£e of John Howard Payne,\ th.e author ·of· \Home Sweet Home.\ The author of that bit of deathless dog- gerel, \Home Sw·eet Home,\ has not lacked his biographers. They have inclined to harp on the insufficiency of his reward for all the labor of his years. So sad to be re- membered only for a casual lyric when one has written sixty-odd plays, many of them in blank verse! Still, there has been indus- trious and versatile writers who have not been remembered at all. Lacking \Home Sweet Home,\ Payne would not have been the first author with eleven tragedies, nine comedies, twenty-six dramas and melo- dramas, seven operas, and ten farces (or their equivalent) more or less to his credit -he would not have been the first hero of this species to vanish from this earthly scene and leave no trace behind. And to Payne's bit of doggerel must be granted one good line. With a little comtnon sense he might have won a permanent place in the theatre, but his bumptiousness soon embroiled him with managers and fellow actors. and after a brief season of triumph he found hin1self without backing. He had made a good deal of money, but it was gone. There were still friends to coddle him. Thev now raised a .· ~ purse of $2.000 to g-ive him a year abroad. He stayed nearly twenty years, toiling in- defatigably and always discontentedly at his plays and playing. He expected more of '·i :-\' ,. . . '· \: ' .'i . i l I .I , .. · . . . ~. ' '

:_'<. , .. . . '·· \: l I .I , .. ~. ' ' I ' .. GEORGE E. LEWIS, Class President. HARRISON GUNNING, Class Song Committee. ARTHUR LOEB, Class Orator. LOUIS D. DE LA VERGNE, Chairman Song Committee. GEORGE TRUEX, Honor Student. LOUTS T. CASE. Manager Track. JOHN A. HALL, Sigma Xi.

.· (' .) ,•. ( . THE CONCORDIENSIS 37 THE BASEBALL SEASON April IS---Stevens, 3; Union, 4· April 25-Rutgers. Rain. May 2-R. P. 1., 5; Union, 4· May 5-Hamilton. Rain. May g-Hamilton, 2; Union, 3· May 13-. Colgate, 13; Union, o. May 16-Rochester, 4; Union, 9· May 23-Wesleyan, 5; Union, 2. May 27-Army. Rain. May 3o-Rutgers, 2; Union, 3· June 6-R. P. 1., 3; Union, 4· June g-Colgate, 3 ; Union, 4· Totals-Opponents, 39 ; Union, 33· Season percentage, .666. TRACK R. P. I., SI ~; Union, 65~. Hamilton, 6o ; Union, 58. Colgate, 58~ ; Hamilton, 41 ; Union, 38~ ; St. Lawrence, 5; Hobart, o. TENNIS Rutgers, 2; Union, 3· M. A. C., o; Union, 6. Vermont, 2 ; Union, 4· Williams, 6 ; Union, o. \ '· 1914 WINS GAZETTE TROPHY The score in the interclass track meet shows a final margin of 6~ points in favor of the seniors. The division of points is as follows: Seniors, 52; Freshmen, 45~ ; Sopuhomores, 350 ; Juniors, ro. Baker was decidedly the individual star, making 35 points for his class, while Mallen ran second place, with 16 points. WOODS NEXT YEAR'S CAPTAIN The members of the baseball squad met directly after the Colgate game to elect a cap- tain for next year. Howard L. Woods, of .i\lbion, N. Y., commonly known as \Teedy was elected to the position. FRESHMAN BASEBALL TEAM During the past baseball season the I 9 I 7 representatives on the diamond have played three scheduled games. These games have not been so very glorious for the 1917 men, but valuable material has been discov- ered by Coach Dawson of the varsity. The games were with Schenectady High School, at Schenectady; with Pauling School, at Paul- ing, and with Saratoga High School, at Sara- toga. Much credit is due to Manager Miller for his work in obtaining these games, and to Captain Boyle for his careful leadership of the freshmen. The first game was. played on the diamond before the \round building\ with the Schen- ectady High S_chool. The freshmen were not very well organized at that time, and fell victims to Schenectady to the tune of 3- I. In this game the stars for the freshmen were Captain Boyle and Galbraith. On Decoration Day the team went to Pauling, where again they fell to a defeat of 17-1. The writer thinks that the team ha<1 to get up too early to play ball. -The captain reports a weak teams as compared with that of Pauling, for their game is ahnost equal to many college teams that have played on our campus this year. In the last game at Saratoga on June 6. the Freshmen trimmed the leaders in the Princeton Alumni League by 3 to 1. In every play the 1917 delegation showed forn1 that had developed in a season of dis- couraging work. Goodman was on the mound and held his opponents down to seven hits and obtained six strike outs. The Frosh won the gan1e in the ~ixth when Trairs' two-bagger brought Goodman and Mann home. The following is the result of the games: Oponents 1917 Schenectady H. S. . . . . . . . . . 3 1 Pauling School . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 1 Saratoga H. S. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 3 Totals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 5

g8 THE CON·CORDIENSIS PRIZE ORATION . A Plea for the Immigrant. I am the immigrant. Since the dawn of creation my uneasy ships have tossed upon gale-threshed waters. Since the birth of man my restless feet have trodden paths over un- explored wastes. I have stood like a senti- nel between civilization and barbarity, spur- red on by one, suffering in grim silence the blows of the other, never complaining, always hoping, hoping for a glimpse of the promised land where I should find happiness and con- tent. I came to your gates with anticipation. I entered with a great hope in my heart, and a prayer of thankfulness upon my lips. I toil in your industries, I prosper in your peace. I help fight your wars, I suffer when turmoil reaches the land. On me are thrust all the disagreeable duties of civilization, yet I rejoice that the day will come when thy ways shall be my ways, thy people shall be my people, thy God, my God. What can man do more? And yet I am the great American problem. It was in the year 1620 that the Pilgrims, feeling that the land of oppression was be- coming unendurable and led by the primeval instinct to seek new and better homes, braved the perils of the unknown · and settled upon these shores. Since then we have been the melting pot of the nations. Over the wide seas has poured an ever-increasing stream of immigra- tion, which has become amalgamated with American ideas and American principles. There has resulted a blending of the vigor of the Anglo-Saxon with the Teutonic and Latin races, producing that composite type which we are wont to recognize as the true Ameri- can. The Puritan was an immigrant, led by the same impulses that prompted those who fol- lowed close in his footsteps, that prompts those who are even now entering this country -the desire to own homes in a land free from oppression, the desire for personal better- ment. The pioneer who £1:rst crossed are bound ... less prairies was an immigrant. Hard and stern was the life of the pathfinder, but through all the hardships and deprivation loomed brightly his goal of ambition-the hope of advance~ent, of the acquirement of land, of the maktng of homes. These were the motives that moved the men and women who took the trails. They are but a reiteration of the desires of the Pturitan-·· of the hope that compels the immigrant of today 1o set foot within our boundaries. And as the Pilgrim paid in a.dvance for the blessing of God and the acquirement of his .ideal, by hewing and cutting and fighting ~ga1nst tremendous odds; as the pioneer paid 1n advance, with pri-vation and struggle, and oftimes with his blood, so the m()dern immi- grant pays as he advances, by toil in the stif_ling mines, before the glowin.g furnaces, am~d the roar of machinery, ever bearing in patlence and resignation the jeers of society. We look on the Puritan with admiration, on the hero of the west with something akin to awe, but we look ttpon the immigrant with scorn. The scum of the earth I No, he is not! He is a striver, as truly as those who app~oached these shores in the Mayflower ; he 1s a fresh infus1on of the pioneer blood that led civilization from the Alleghanies to the Golden Gate. No! he is not the scum of the earth, but the -vitality of th.e earth, the strength and brawn and muscle of the old world. It is the biood of such as he that throbs in our own veins; it is the blood of such as he that made this nation possible. He is the present day ingre<lient of the mixing pot and the early product of this it was which threw off the yoke of Eng- land ; that product it was wbich bound this country with a band of blood that will never be broken; that product it was which, led by the same compe11ing instinct that drove the Puritan over the sea, carried our flag to the distant corners (){ the con- '1 ' ·. ' I ~ 'I ;l I ·.·. t '· '·

I./I• '1 ~· ' I ~ ~. '< 1t f •.·. ' } e (' s t '· I TH.E CONCORDlENSIS 39 tinent-the grim, resol u.te advance guard of civilization. The martyr of progress, he who has given his lifeblood tim·es innumerable, is not dead. He can never di:e. Behold how vast and various in his life. In art, in color and in stone he lives again; on the n1ost conspicuous page of our glorious history he lives and breathes and moves; he made it glorious. In. our hearts he is immortal. Our hands have fashioned fitting tribute to his prowess. We have carved his name upon stone th~oughout the land, but he has written his own name upon every page of history, and has inter- woven it so closely with the story of the flag that inseparable they stand, linked together- the flag and this,the most masterful of ma.n, the product of every race under the sun, the alloy of the smelting pot-the real American .. C. N. SMITH. THE FRESHMAN YEAR By James L. Fitzgerald. For thousands of our American boys and girls fre-shman year in college is the con- summation of hopes and ambitions long dreamed of and anxiously awaited. Fo:r most of them it marks a goal and turning point in life. From the vantage point of the college campus they look at life with new ideals gathered from all these days of wait- ing and preparation. The horizon of thetr lives is widened. They now begin to realize that they are in a new world of greater possibilities and higher ambitions. But together with all these wonderful dreams of new life there is soon borne in upon the mind of the freshman that he :is here for good earnest hard work. M ucb must be done-much is to be accomplished. College is after all but a contention and expansion of good consciencious training and djscip1ine. But alas! how often he is disillusioned! How often he finds himself in the hard struggle of mind and muscle entirely unprepared for the battle. Fresh- man year is a success only as one comes to it well\\prepared; and uses its opportunities to their fullest extent. Most of the difficulties a freshman has to face are to be attributed mistakes of easy going over-indulgent parents, and to the faults of poor incompetent preparatory schools. We all realize, of course, that the chief molding force of character is the home 1 The lessons a child learns there v.rill remain with him ever after, and will form the basis of his habits and standards of life. But on the other hand, the school . , too, has a heavy responsibility in the matter. No proper sott of preparation can ever be obtained until we dispel the idea from our minds that \going to school\ and \getting d . \ an e ucatlon are synonymous terms. The mere routine of preparing lessons and the slight school discipline demanded can never be a sufficient equipment for a child in his later struggles with life. High standards of taste and lofty thoughts and ideals should be inculcated. But most of all the pupils should be taught to work. There is far too little real work done now-a-days. Every .. thing is tnade easy. All this is part of modern progress and has its proper place. But have we a right to use that as an excuse for lowering our standards of education? Of what value is a diploma received as a reward for work which has not been actually done? What value to the student are lessons, copied from someone else? What is the gain by an in- dulgent teacher; or far worse for him to coax the teacher into actually doing the work himself on some pretext of illness or inability to understand, when in reality no part of the lesson has been even attempted. As we observe the methods followed in many of our high schools, we see only too tnuch of this sort of thing. Nicholas Mur- ray Butler, speaking on this point, says~ \Our great national vice is mediocrity, and our schools, whose duty it is to pave the way for college, pimently illustrate this in all its enormity. Instead of setting up high stand-

. I THE CONCORDIENSIS ards they strive rather to conform to what is fashionable and popular. They ~confuse no- toriety with reputation and send their pupils to college wretchedly unfit to take advantage of the opportunities be£ ore them.\ On the other hand, the college owes the freshmen a duty which it often is loath to discharge. Too frequently the freshman c:lass is turned over to the tender mercies of hard- working young instructors whose knowledge of human experience is very limited, and who are more concerned with their c, wn special field of work than with the broad problem of human development. It would be better for the freshman if be could see more of the older and wiser pr.u- fessors at this crucial perior of his life. He needs to be inspired with their good, practical thoughts and ideals. Personal relations should be established between student and professor. The professor should be one to whom he could naturally and sympathetically turn for suggestions, help and friendly coun- cil. To waste freshman year and to throw away its opportunities is often fatal. Frequently a man's. whole career is blighted because of mistakes in early college days. The youth who goes wrong can never regain his intel- lectual or moral balance. The ideal freshman year, then, is not mere- ly the realization of long-wished-for dreams, nor is it simply a matter of college responsi- bility and work from day to day. It is more than this. It is a unique bit .of human ex- perience, for which conscientious prep ara- tion must be made and which will become the foundation stone of the character and ideals of the man throughout his entire life. PRIZE AWARDS . Warner Prize-For the senior of the high- est standing in the performance of collegiate duties and in moral deportment. A warded by the faculty, to Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schen- ectady. Allen Prizes-Three in number-for the best essays on any subjects, presented by seniors. A warded to : 1, Thomas L. Ennis, of Rotterdam; 2, Morgan L. Williams, of Medway, and .3, Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schenectady. Oratorical Prizes-. Four in number-for the successful competitors in the junior and the sophomore Oratorical Contests. A warded to-Juniors: I, James Fitzgerald, of Ilion; 2, Henry L. Faust, of Schenectady. Sopho- mores: I, C. New·ell Smith, of Schenectady; 2, Charles Foster Brown, of Schenectady. Goodrich-Duane Prizes-Two in number- for the successful ,competitors in the Extem- poraneous Debate Contest, open to all students in college. Awarded to: I, Raymond S. Blod- gett, of Jefferson; 2, Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schenectady. Allison-Foote Prizes-Two in number- one for the Literary Society that presents the best debating team, and one for the individual presenting the best speech, in the annual AHi·· ~.on-Foote Debate. A warded to the A delphic S< ciety, and to Donald A. Coulter, of Schen- ectady. Freshman-Sophomore Debate Prize-for the member of either team that makes the best single speech in the annual Freshman- Sophomore Debate. Awarded to Jacob M. Frankel, 'I7, of Schenectady. Blatchford Oratorical Prizes- For the best two orations delivered on the Commencement platform; awarded by a committee appointed by the Board of Trustees. To: I, Luther A. Hagar, of Plattsburg; 2, Warren V. Vos- burgh, of Voorheesville. Daggett Prize-For the senior of the best character and condudct without respect to scholarship. Awarded by the President to Stephen B. Story, of Vernon, Conn. Pullman Prizes-Two in number-one for a senior in the Classical Course, and one for a senior in one of the Engineering Courses. c\ warded upon the basis of scholarship , to Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schenectady; and Luther A. Hagar, of Plattsburg. Baggerly Prizes-Two in number-to I I .. 1 ~ I s a 1l 1: c .. c: l l (

~ ~· I I ,. 1 ~ I THE CONCO,RDIENSlS 41 seniors or juniors, for the two best essays on an economical subject. A warded by a com- mittee of the faculty, to : I, Morgan L. \iV\i!l.- liams, of Medway; 2, Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schenectady. Van 'Orden Prize-.· For the . freshtnan that excels in the work of the English Department C!.n d writes the best essay. A warded by the English Department, to William Morris Gil- bert, Jr., of Yonkers. Bailey Prize-· ·For the senior that has ren- dered greatest service to the college in any field. Awarded by the President to John Taylor Howell, Jr., of Newburg. American History Prize-For the student taking American History and writing the· best thesis on a topic dealing with the history of Schenectady. Awarded to Karl E. Agan, of Port Henry. The Beukendaal Prize-of $25, given by the Beukendaal Chapter, Daughters of the Ameri- can Revolution, for the student of highest standing in American history. Awarded to Karl E. Agan, '15, of Port Henry. Electrical Engineering Seminar Prizes-- Two in number-for the seniors of highest general records in the Electrical Engineering Seminar Course. A warded to John A. Hall, of Washington, D .C., and Bert M. Hubbard, of Hudson Falls. Ernst J. Berg Scholarship Prize-For the fraternity whose members attain the highest average scholarship during the academic year. This prize cup was shown and will be a ward- ed in the fall for the first time. Concordiensis Art Prize-For the student that presents the best drawing for designs to be used in the Concordiensis during the year. Awarded to William W. Darrow, '16, of Chatham. The Horace B. Silliman Scholarship- Avvarded to Wilson 0. Clough, 'Iii, of Wood- stock. John K. Porter Memorial Scholarships- A \varded to Jerome D. Guthmann, of Schen- ectady, and Thomas L. Ertnis, of Rotterdam, and W. L. Cote, of Warrensburg. Gilbert M. Speir Memorial Scholarship- Awarded to Morris Schaffer, of Schenectady. Special Honors. In Chemistry-William Alvin Mudge, War;.. ren Chase Vosburgh. In Geology-Morgan Leslie Williams. In Greek-· ·Raymond Van Santvoord. In Mathematics-Warren Chase Vosburgh. Ohio U niver:sity is e~tablishing a wireless station and a course in wireless telegraphy. \M \ .d h . h h k y rose, sat · e, press1ng , er c ee to his, ''Why so grave?\ \My catcus,.\ said she, \why don't you shave ?\-Ex. According to some new freshmen rules at Cornell, members of next year's freshman class and those following will not be permitted to be down town after eleven-thirty in the evening. They will also be barred from the first ten rows in the theatre at Ithaca and are forbidden to smoke anywhere on the streets of Ithaca. As the junior philosophy class is dis- missed: First Junior-That's some grand opera. Second Junior- Whad'ye mean, grand opera? First J unior-\Tales of Hoffman.\ Rochester h.as founded a senior society, \The Falcon,'' for the promotion of plans affecting the betterment of student life and to advance justice in all college affairs. Columbia has introduced soccer football in the regular course of gymnasium work. A varsity squad will be selected from the 600 students, who are required to play the gan1e twice a week. The faculty of Lafayette College has re- instated the fifty-four sophomores who were suspended recently for hazing.

. I i . l I ! ' ! I ; l I ' ' : j THE CONCORDIENSIS Cohen-Hands up, or I'll shoodt! Quick-witted Burglar-Fifty dollars fer de gun! Cohen-Sold! -Gargoyle. A new plan for the election of mern bers to Phi Beta Kappa has been advanced by Professor Con1fort of Cornell University, making achievement in college activities essential, as well as mere scholastic stand- ing. The tendency would be to eliminate the \grind.\ The question upon which Colgate and Bates College recently debated is: \Re- solved, That the Monroe Doctrine should no longer form a part of the permanent foreign policy of the United States.\ Col- gate won for the negative. An artificial ice plant and hockey rink has been established at Yale. EXTEMPORANEOUS DEBATE For and Against Wilson's Policy of Delay in Mexico. Mr. Blodgett, the prize winner, spoke in favor of the policy of delay and said in part: Why are we in Mexico? It is not because of any quarrel that the United States has with Mexico, but because we feel that it is our duty to protect the lives and property of our own people and of Europeans, and to work for the settlement of Mexico's disturbed con- ditions. Having defined our purpose and interest in Mexico, how can the desired results best be obtained? Certainly not by antagonizing the Mexican people, by treating them as enemies, or using undue force. But better by proceeding slowly, with a spirit of perfect friendliness to convince them of the integrity of our intentions. The adverse effects of haste in this matter would be many. It would arouse the hos- tility of all Mexico against the U. S. causing them to forget an neglect the pressing prob ... 1 ems of their own country. Hasty action leading to a war might fail to have the united support of the citizens of this coun- try and no country can have physical and moral success in a war unless the war is sanctioned by a united people. The policy of delay has already accom- plished tnuch. In Vera Cruz we have im-- proved the sanitation and convinced many of the Mexicans of our good intentions there. It has brought on the 1nediation pro- ceedings with three South American coun- tries striving to effect a peaceable settle ... ment of Mexican affairs and with much hope of success. The needs of Mexico are great and a full solution of her questions will require much time and patience. In our own country it required the Revolutionary War and the combined administrations of several presi- dents to establish that liberty of which we boast. A careful consideration of all phases of the situation backed by friendly intentions on the part of the U. S. and careful action will in time bring about peace south of the Rio Grande and will hasten the time when all countries of the V..,T estern Hemisphere shall be bound together by the ties bt. friendship and the desire to promote liberty and justice. ,. I '

THE CONCORDIENS.IS . . Q . . ' utnn s Schenectady's ·p·.. . R:· ·o. ~c·T·· o· . R.· ... 'S Greatest Drug Sto rre What kind of Candy t!o you like? Most of you will answer chocolates. It matters not just what :special flavor has your preference-they are ALL here. Page & Shaw's Chocolates $1.00 a pound-the Elite Candy. Liggett's Chocolates 80c a pound- Liggett's perfect as:,ortment, each piece different- no two alike. Exclusively at Quinn's. Fenway Chocolates 60c a pound. Huyler's Chocolates-new pack- age $1.00. Each and every the best in its res- pective line. QUINN'S-the place /or Fine Chocolates Tele/Jhone Q • ' anything to Ulllfl S Call12&5 · Steefel Bros. ALBANY Slim Trim and Timely Spring Suits Designing a Steefel Model isn't as sim- ple as turning over your hand or snappi11g your finger. Styles aren't tossed off like tin cans are cut out 1t t,~kes rare skill to style a coat-particularly if it is to fit a lithe young · figure-think it over, then come in. The sort of hats, shoes and furnish· ings that young men like and wear. . ''THEAl'RE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE-PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Ev·ening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS!: Feature Pictures 2 to S Special M:usic 7 to 10:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies ~ Jay A. Rickard Co. 253 State St. 1 1 Schenectady' a Sporting Goods Store'' RUBBER SOLED ENGLISH OXFORD The last word in comfort In a Summer Shoe for outing oF street wear-in tan or white- and flttt.d properly $5 THE PAIR PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.A.TRONIZERS '. '.

I, i I , ' l I . . \ I I ! I ! I I • I I I . ' I I ' ' I . ' i : I ! 1 I ., : ! ,' l ' . ' ~ : •I ''! \ ;; , I . i I •; I I ; . .I ' THE CONCORDIEN 1 SlS BARNEY'S Wh1r1 Bver,hoJ, Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at .... BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY C·O. Scheftectady 's Greatest Stor1 Shoes and Oxfords That Satisfy Crossett Bench Made Ralston Health Ajax $5.00 $4.00 & $4.50 ~ $3.00 & $3.50 EMERY'S 429 State St. Schenectady V. E. Wbelden, Manager Correct Dan.cing Also the new dances Prof. Kilgallen's Pr.ivate Dancing Classes Further information see Hand Book page 52 Ya,te.'s ·Boat House The largest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection wi>th house - - · .. - • 29 ·Front Street Both: Phone$ Fine Furniture at Popular ·Prices J;OHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in re·fined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing- · · Furnishings- - · Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz,. Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One .Step taught n three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing Arcade Hall, Near N. Y. C. Depot ~P~one 2123-J S.A Y YO\C SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ I I I \I

.;, ., I .. r· \.i r ' I I THE CONCORDIENSIS \Balmacaans\ for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. J. HILL:MAN 617 State ,Street ·Th·. Gl. . . B· . k·. c· 0 The Students' Problem Solved . e .eason. oo . 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building ' ·On your way to the Post Q:flice'' PICTURE FRAMING & ENGRAVING · SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn· ing and still be on tim~e for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELEC.TRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady llumin.ating Co. 511 State Street T elephene 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S.. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER~S PATRONIZERS

;• t I' \ < THE CONCORDIENSIS SAUER BROTHERS Printing, BiDding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made to Order. 31~6 State Street-Phone 2799-YI. Sp_ecial :Rates to Stodents HOTEL AND LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY RESTAURANT - - 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms) Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON'S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Developing, Printing and Enlarging LYON'S 3 DRUG STORES C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone Z10B·W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State SL Phone 1543-.J ltutnu N nttnual inuk J;rqrnrrtabg. N. t. Safe Deposit Boxes for Renf SAY YQTT SAW TT IN THE \Ct 'l\:4 ., tl-tu :t . l; f l I

l; f l I 'THE CON:CORDIENSIS E,ngravin·g a·nd E.mbossing Lowest prices consistent with high ·class work, will be quoted to college students, from now until cem men cement. Union Boo,k Co., Inc. 257 STATE STREET THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel ~of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIRE ROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plao. Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita' s Orchestra SCHB'NECTADY, N.Y. , IDQr fbtanu AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6 '07 'o8 'og 'ro 'rr '12 and 1913 ' ' ' ' , ' Best Dance M~usic in the World ~~~·tt!'~~~~~I~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Concert Office and Res., 16 7 Hamilton St., Albany TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day a.nd Night Service. The quickest and most contfortable way to get to and from social and. business en- gagements. . Touring Cars for parties an& out.of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son n8 1-2 North FerrySt. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 1 S4 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office • PA':rRONIZE YOVR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

I;. \ ,': '• ,, l': ,•l i ,, i' \ .. ,, THE CONCORDIEN~SIS A Man's Smoke the WorOd Over The iron- nerved bird- men who ride tbe \bucking bronchos cf the air\- the brawny cowboys of the West-Uncle Sam·s sturdy Jack Tars, \cowpunchers of the sea\-ia every calling that appeals to men of initiative and ability - you '11 find \Bull.. Durham, in fresh, hand-made cigarettes, the favorite smoke. \Bull\ Durham appeals to them not only because it is a superb tobacco, but because of its wonderful flavor. Ever notice th~t peculiarly distinctive, rich, fragrant aroma that only'' Bu!l\ Durham possessea? It i3 due to a generations-old process known only to the oak.ers of \Bull\ Durham. It is a unique factor in the world- wide success of this famous tobacco. '\ GENUINE! · .BULL DURHAM .SMOKING· TOBACCO (Enougll /or forty lland-maJe cigarettes in each 5c 8ack) As many cigarettes o.re rolled from \Bull\ Durham in a year as all brands of ready-made cigarettes in this Asle lor FREE 6Qok of ~'paper&'. with each Sc IGC:k country combined- and the sales are still growing. Get 'fthe Makings\ today-~'roll yourown\'---an<! obtain last- tng, healthful ~nJoyment. An Illustrated Booklet, F R E E showtng bow to \Roll Your Own,\ and a Bookofcigarette papers, will both be mailed, /ree. to any address in U.S. on postal request. Address ''Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C, Room 1210. THE AMERICAN T03ACCO COMPANY 111lllt lllllliUIIUIIIIJUIIIIHliiiiUJJ U IUIIlllllll 1209 ' I ' I i I r ! '

' i I r ! ' THE CONCORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MO·E D.EWILDE 1 Hatter and f11rnisher. Trunks and Leather Cot1ds · inss. 14t iarbtr 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William ] . Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHE.S Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· . sive Victor Parlors.. Easy , Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. 2nd SHI~TS 50c Alban;, Agency foT Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Growing\ DANKER Relia.ble Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albamy 1-0 and 12 Maiden Lane Alba,,, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPJlR'S PATRONIZER8

THE CONCORDIENSIS PARSON.S' ORCHESTRA Music F urnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest 31 0 State S'treet, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS. OILS Deale.rs in all kinds ~of Wax Polishea . 212 .So. Centre St. A 66 SQUARE DEAL,. for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassaa Street · . • pau lng, ros. 520 5th Ave., New York Send fer Catalo~ue cash prices Quick - Active - Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N .. Y. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles The Schenectady Clothing Company ~- Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters SAY YOTT SAW IT IN THE \CUN(;t }RUl: •t .j I I ~ 1 l· ' ',fj I, :; ~. ·,l ~·. l ,/:' l :i I ~·. ' ' ·,·, ,II

W~t ifamptnu 1\lbanu THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSIERY, UNDERWARE & SWEATERS IN THE CITY '1 All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. f::~ Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are ~right-our if goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us ~· I. an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already I I l, acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal in vi· l' ' ',fj I, :; ~. ·,l ~·. l ,/:' l ~-- I ' ' ·,·, \'' ~ ; ~ H' ' ~ : · .. . \ (it ' ;~ •' . ·•.; : i( \, i A h\.· t {I' ' ,/ I tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to p:lease. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 111. If. ID~nru 46 7 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. ~nus JEWEL .. ERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREE'f ALBANY, N. Y.

s & Good Clothes SAY MEN: YJ e sell Hart, Schaffner . & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells ' the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The ColleJ!le Clothier 240~44 State Street Schenectady ·~ Art P~ess 'hrt ,·}t k f ~. ' '·

ALFRED C. MENEELY, Class Marsha-l. STEPHEN B. STORY, :President Terrace Council. WARREN C. VOSBURGH, Sigma Xi. VICTOR A. LORD, Class Prophet. ARCHIBALD S. TELFER, Manager Football. WILLIAM A. MUDGE, Class Song Committee. RAYMOND VAN SANTVOORD, Class Poet.

LUTHER A. HAGAR, Valedictorian. THOMAS L. ENNIS, Ivy Orator. C. ALBION KENWORTHY, Keeper of the Jug. STANLEY L. WALWORTH, President Press Club. J. TAYLOR HOWELL, JR., Manager Baseball. MORGAN L. WILLIAMS, Sigma Xi. H. HERMAN HITCHCOCK, Editor Concordiensis, I

