... ' .. / ·, .. :hf.:\: ~;~ffi ·11ft·· ·nn: :n J§'!IH. (!JJi · · ·nm · ,UJPm ~ THE PVBLISHED·WEEKLY BY· THE STVDENT.S· OF·VNION·COLLEGE VOL. 38 OCTOBER 8th, 1914 NO. 1

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The colleg.e offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: l. Cour•e• leadlns to the decree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- icluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates · for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is perequisite. 2. Couue leadln&' to the de&'ree of Ph. B. LA TIN- SciENTiltiC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour•e leadln&\ to the decree of B. S. Sc IEN'l'U'IC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadln&' to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouiSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modem languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELecTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. CS. Cour•e• Ieadfn&\ to paduate decree•. CouRsE LEADING ro DEGREE ol\ M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats COURSE LEADING '1'0 DEGREE OF M. S. E. E.-· This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE ott PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admit- 'lion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER, ]. NJtWTOM FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW S(;HOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: ]OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. Hu:~;tsTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St.. Albany, N. V. 11 Everything for the College Man except Ex•m•'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. College Phone 14 72-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate .. ·~ ·.( ',< < ·~ :.r .. , i .. }· l f.

.. ·~ ·( ',< < ·~ .'.f I ·' . J ·.{ ,i l ' ' ' l :!' ' .) TK.ADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical '! .~ lji1 LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner· & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. Reserved for Frank M. Cain M aater of Dancing Arcade Hal~ Near N.Y. C. Depot 'Pbaae 2723-J ~~ l!!!J .· ·~ Fellows come down and get , ::i acquainted with t .~'f : ··~ 4 General Electric NICKLAS r~9nia:~:;:; ' ~~ ·.] Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER i ,, }' Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Best Canes, Baks and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

BABBITT & CO'S. PALL AND WINTER 'DISPLAY OF A~m,erica's Most Fam~ous Make RO·GERS-·PE:ET CO. Is full of the strongest kind of attractions for every man who is keen for clothes whose eq ua:l can only be found in highest price Custom- Tailor Shop-s. The last word in select fabrics,. exclusive tailoring and up-to-the-hour correct styles will be found in this exceptionally strong line. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF Rogers-Peet Co's. Dress Clothes In our Dress Clothes Department will be found all the latest and best ideas in stnart Day and Evening Dress for men. This Department is a revelation to many men who have visited it and found therein the highest type of Dress Clothes possible to produce,-garments which in fit, fashion and quality the most expensive of custom made clothes can not improve upon at double the price. Babbi .tt & ·CO ''Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ · . • 451-453 BROADWAY @a.e.P. ·THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. vVe are not . living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as one did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. ( Drawing Inka Higgins' I Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilage \') Photo Mounter Paate Drawinl! Board Paate Liquid Paate I I l Office Paste ARE THE FIMEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES 'IJ. ,. \' \·1 ''1··:'1 1 Ill 'i :.2'_~ -:~ . ......, - - -.. A - ·.··r•·:., ' ' \\ '..II .- ~·· - , .. - -~ ' ,- .·--u·-=;· .. Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and tadopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Opposite Jay Street 271 Nm·. th St. 438 State Street Free Order Service · Telephone 3456 · Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY .AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, ., '' ' ) .i '\ ,l ~.1 ' ',~

. , . ' ' \ ' ',~ ,, ~ \;. . ' .• ¥ Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds ...................... lOc . Collars ............................... 2c Union Suits . . . . . . . . . . . . ........... 1 Oc Underwear, Ni,ght Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ........... 6c each Hose ................ ~ ....... 3c per pair Handkerchiefs ....................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons . One Price Piano House . EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and UnivenitieJ from' the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 ·State Street FRESHMEN Follow your upper Class Men. They use MAZDA LAMPS. Your efficiency will be increased by study- ing under this high effic- iency light. SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING CO. 511 State St. 'Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes • Art Stnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. I t• II [.U \\'' r)'\''EA~ r.oi1Mioi~' Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

' ' I ' '. : I ' ' ' ' i We Announce ~ the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ......... . KEELER'S ·--EUROPEAN-------- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 .P. M. :, .Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS 'Clothing · · - Furnishings • · · Hats .• Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Room~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' li1 Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Storea CANDIES Huyler's, Park & ·Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. . A.nnex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y .. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Fer~ Street Crea\'ery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\ i ' 'i( : .,:; 'I' :J ., :t ·.r, ''I ,' I~ ' : '.:l :) l ,. ! '.\ ·f .. j ,0: / •I ., ·' ., .J ,! ''i .·•· ! ·;; '.!t .:.~ .· ~ :~ ·, ~ .,

: .. 'I .. l '.\ ·f .. . j ,•·. ~ ~· -. ' ' ' .. .. -· .... ~ .. ~. .. ·~ ·- '\' ' .... Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS.. OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. When the leaves Begin to fall Walk-'Over Shoes Are B·est of all. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. · 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R. Zita' S Orchestra !~~~~~~d·o~u·~~. ~:o,u.~i~n '~2° 1 ~~~ &~! Best Dance Music in the World g~~·tt~f!t~~..:l~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK', 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. · Cigars Ice Cream Soda st Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prea.criptions Accurately Compounded .~ Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Sbldents Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Byea Teated and GlatBell Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography '~Watch the Show Case\ ~~------------------------- RINDFLEISCH';S Artistic Parisian Dye Works ll6 Jay Street .

I \ Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the · Lever Th~;tt Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through invhing Comparison with mercb.andise you see elsewhere., where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and deaHngs. Just ·step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases .of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W AU Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric. Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole., Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items : l\fen 9 s soles, sewed ________ 75c I_,adies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I-~adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c ~1en's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed _____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARN·EY'S Colle4e Repre•ent:~tivf' 1908 1914 1915 ROW TANGO ·SHIRTS are an . evening dress • necesstty. The bosoms are tucked, puffed, plea- ted or ''mushroom.\ $2.00 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. ., .~ '• ~ . . ~ . ,:i

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 OCTOBER 8, 1914 N0.1 GARNE'T ELEVEN STARTS. SEASON WITH VICTORY. Union, 15; St. Lawrence, 0. Thus was the football season of 1914 opened on R. C. Alexander field last Saturday. The Garnet ·;~ team got off to a rather loose start and 'l . 1 play seemed slow, probably because of the J conditon of the turf, but the game was in- ....• ~ teresting as showing promise of improve- ·.··~ ment as the season goes on. A number of . ~ new men were in the line-up at different . . ; ·~ parts of the contest and, steadied by the vet- .~ erans of two and three seasons, put u~ good .f\~ games. Except for a safety scored tn the · ·' second period when Captain Starbuck tack- . ·I led a St. Lawrence player behind the visit- .. ! : -) or's goal line, all the scoring was done in j the second half. In this half both teams . :4 showed improvement and the contest was : .. J faster and more exciting. Wally Girting ·.~~ was responsible for the thirteen points >. j scored in the second half. After a penalty ~ . ·~ inflicted on St. Lawrence for offside near . j their own goal, Beaver signalled for Girling . J to plunge through outside of tackle. Wally :, plunged and went right on over. The at- . ·· 1 tempt to kick the goal failed. In the fourth ·. :( ··•l quarter a forward pass tossed over the line .. j was captured by Girling for the second touchdown. Among the Freshmen who worked out in their first 'varsity game were Anderson, DuBois, and Rokwell. Anderson got in the game eat:~Y when Byron injured his rib. It ,;vas discovered later that \By's\ rib had been broken in practice Thursday. Ander- son played a strong game in the back field and showed a piece of head-work which merited special mention. It was St. Law- rence's ball on a fourth down. Ford at quarterback heaved a long forward pass down the field towards Anderson. Ander- son with perfect insouciance watch the ball go by and n1ade no attempt to spear it . By that move-or rather lack of move- ment-the ball went to Union on the spot where St. Lawrence started the play. Gard- ner saw that he had no chance of running the ball back as far as the penalty pasted on St. Lawrence for an incompleted forward pass on the fourth down would bring it. DuBois relieved Jenkins at tackle when Jenkins' Charlie horse balked. DuBois played good football. Rockwell went into the game at the start of the fourth period for Wood and held down the guard position about half the period till Wood went back . First Period-First Half. Jackson kicked-off to St. Lawrence who shortly returned the kick. Girling returned the ball five yards, then Stoller made it first clown. Captain Starbuck assimilated

10 THK CONCORDIENSIS a short forward pass. Girling kicked to St. Lawrence's three-yard line. A punting ex- change gave Union the ball and two first downs resulted. \Tubby\ Rosecrans sa\r a chance to drop-kick, but the wind spoiled the boot. For the rest of the quarter the Garnet was on the offensive almost continually but the work of the team wasn't sure enough to rush the ball over the goal. Union 0, St. Lawrence 0. Second Period. It was St. Lawrence's hall under the shadow of her own goal. St. Lawrence kick- ed out. An exchange of kicks followed to Union's advantage. Girling went inside the end for 10 yards, Jake Beaver took \Tubby'' Rosecrans' place at quarter and Girling kicked to St. Lawrence's goal line. On the next play \Pete\ Starbuck filtered around the visitors' interference in time to drop St. Lawrence's punter before he had time to kick. The scorers registered a safety for the Garnet. Till the end of the half St. Law- rence kept the ball except for one occasion when Jake Beaver returned a punt to the prides of Canton's 15 yard line. Score: St. Lawrence 0, Union 2. First Period-Second Half. The kick-off trickled through some- how and St. Lawrence got the ball. Both teams were playing the best football of the afternoon and the scrimmages were tight and hard fought. Beaver uncorked a long pass which Girting delivered about 35 yards from the Red goal. Stoller plunged through the line for five yards and Anderson follow- ed with an end run for first down. The next play was a fumble which Union recovered with no gain. St. Lawrence was then pen- alized for offside. On the next play Girl- ing scored the first touchdown of the sea- son. The angle of the goal was difficult and the goal failed. Until the end. of the period the ball wav- ered back and forth between the opponents with no apparent gain for either. Score: Union 8, St. Lawrence 0. Second Period~Seco~d Half. Until the last two minutes of play this quarter achieved no results. The Garnet gradually worked the ball down to St. Law- rence's territory. Girling punted to the Red goal. 'rhe return against the wtnd was short. Chilton, 1918's ex-scr.apper, gathered in a forward pass with the Union label on it and returned it ten yards. Union recipro- cated a moment later when Starbuck block ... ed a pass and collared it. Immediately Jake Beaver shot another pass which soared over the goal just as Girling volplaned in the same direction. The movable force met the volatile object and the result was the projection of the elements upon the happy side of the St. Lawrence goal. Girling took one of the two remaining moments of play to kick the goal. Score: St. Lawrence 0, Union 15. Chilton, 1918's former cane-rusher, put up a strong game for St. Lawrence, as did Hutchins. Pete Starbuck, Bill Friday, Jake Beaver, and Girting played in top form, while Stoller's strong plunging was a feature of the game. On defensive work Garry Wood did yeoman work while Starbuck's tackling was clean and consistent. About a thousand hill-billies adorned our new fence-along the outside, and enjoyed the game just as much as those within the enclosure.. The cheering section did not distinguish itself to any appreciative extent wherefore we might advocate a more string- ent and studious perusal of the 1916 Revised Union Version Bible by certain quantities of the most recent decorations of our stud- ent body. The new ruling prohibiting freshmen to squander their weekly incre- ment upon members of the frail but appre- ciative sex seems to have the effect of re- leasing the aforesaid freshmen themselves .: ; ' '- ~ ,; \ ' ·:.. '. ) ' '•,-1

the on ... . 1n the put did of . 1ng our the not ng- sed ud- re- ves ,, :i\ -~ .•..•. :t~ :~l . ;(:: ,, : ?~ .. ·ii ,~. ~~ , .• , '. ,. ::t ·~) ., > f~ .,t• ·/ ;; ·'· .. ; :.: ;\ :{ .· .. '. ~ ,; \ ,, . ':~· ~ i; ;! ,.1:~· , .. ) : •,-1 THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 £rom attendance at football. Perhaps 1t should be 1nade clear that such a conting- ency was not the desired effect. Everyone united in praising the band which vvorked hard and welL Next vveek is Hobart. Following is a line-up of the game: UNION Position ST. LA WR'CE Starbuck (C) ------L.E. --------Hayden __ Wood ------------- L.T. ____ Hutchins (C) ., Price ____ .:::-- .... ----,...-L.G. --------- Gilson Hokerk --------------C·-------- McGinnis Jackson -- ..... ----------R. G. --------O'Leary Jenkins --------·----R. T. ________ Morgan Friday ... ------------R.E. ____ ,,... ___ Church Rosecrans ----------Q.B,________ Chilton Byron ------------L.H.B. _______ Gardner Girling -------,...--..,.-R.H.B. --------Noble Stoller --------------F.B. --·----Griswold Summary. Score-Union, 15; St. Lawrence, 0. Touchdo,vns-. Girling, 2. Goals from touch- dovvn - Girling. Touckback - Griswold. Substitutes-Union: Beaver for Rosecrans ; Anderson for Byron; DuBois for Jenkins; Rockvvell for Wood ; Wood for Price ; St. La\'Tence: Reynolds for Gardner. Time of quarters-Ten minutes. Officials-Referee, Risley of Colgate. Umpire-Miller of Hav- erford. Linemen-Grout for Union; Caten for St. Lawrence . DELTA PHIS FIRST TO OPEN FESTIVITIES. After the St. Lawrence game on Satur- day, September 26, the Delta Phi fraternity held an informal dinner party and dance. The chaperons were Mrs. George Lyons of Schenectady, and Mrs. J. Willing Gauger of Albany. · CHANGES AND ADDITIONS IN THE FACULTY. Several changes on the faculty have taken place since last spring. Mr. Upson and Mr. King have been promoted to Assistant Pro- fessors in Electrical Engineering. J\Iortin1er F. Sayre, lVL A. and M. E., has been appointed Instructor in Engine·ering. J\!Ir. Grant Hundley, a graduate of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute with the degree of C. E., is also an Instructor in Engineering. Roy Abbey, a graduate of Colgate with the degree of B. A., has been appointed an assistant in the Biology Lobarotory. John Vedder, who has con1e from the University of Illinois, has been appointed Assistant Professor Thermodynamics. Warren C. Vosburgh, B. S., Union, 191-:l:, has been appointed an assistant in the Chem.- ical Laboratory. Clifford Parker, M. A., Harvard, is an instructor in Modern Languages. Geoffrey Atkinson, M. A., Amherst and Columbia, is also an instructor in Modern Languages. Guy C. Weeks, B. S. and A. B., is an in- structor in French and German. Luther A. Hager, Union, 1914, is an in- structor in mathematics. \Lute as the crowd knew him last year, was valedictor- ian of the Senior class, and a member of the track team. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. CLASSES CHOOSE OFFICERS. By regulation of the Terrace Council the dates for the election of class officers this year were: For the class of 1915, Wednes- day, September 23 ; for 1916, Thursday, the 24th; and for 1917, Friday, the 25th. The Freshman class will elect later. The officers chosen in the Senior Class are: President, Donald A. Coulter; vice- president, Thomas A. Dent; secretary-treas- urer, Will~am H. Mandeville. Coulter is a prominent figure in debating here, a mem- ber of the \Concordy\ board, and of the Terrace Council. Dent is captain of track,

.. r, , I 1 \ I I I t ' ( l I I· i ' '· :. .. .. '\\'' \ ' . · .. ~. ••· ~_,..,,.~ .,,_ ,-._,-,._,,~.., ... ,..,_, ____ .,.__.._,_. __ _,__. .. ._.~,~ -n.,_, ___ ,_•V>-·-·-- ·-----\---.~ --•• ~-···-·;.- .... .......,,-. \'' ~----------~·- ... ·----------o_.. __ . .._ ___ ........,...__.., • . ~----· 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS an office which his merits in that line well earned him. Mandeville is president of the Press Club. The Juniors have chosen as class presi- dent Nathaniel A. Finch, vice-president of the Press Club and a member of the \Con- cordy\ board; as vice-president, Horace Zimmer, a 'varsity baseball man; and as secretary-treasurer, Howard A. Glenn, a member of the ''Concordy\ board. The results of the Sophomore election are: President, Willett William Friday, a cross-country man of last year, also 'varsity baseball and football man; vice-president, Arnold H. Goodman, a leading light in '17 basketball and an aspirant for 'varsity pitcher; secretary-treasurer, Forest B. Van A very, a popular n1an in his class. AN UNKNOWN HELPER. I cannot kick a hundred yards, the oval ball of leather, nor bust a line of eight or nine big huskies all together. I do not fall for basketball and should you ask the reason: my limbs are sick with rheumatix -all through the winter season. The same is true of baseball too, of tennis, track, de- bating and all the other breeds and styles of college recreating. The only place I really shine, and there is all my glory, is on the side lines-here I point the moral of my story. Of all the chaps who perch them- selves upon the college bleachers, I certain hold the record place among those blooming screechers. I watch the leader and the team and while they fight and waller, I cross my legs and brace my feet and, LORDY, how I holler! DEBATING SOCIETIES START STRONG-MANY NEW MEM- BERS TAKEN. Meetings of both debating societies have been held and the term's work is well under way. Philomathean meets this year in Silli- tnan Hall on Tuesday evenings at ~ :00 o'clock, and Adelphic meets also in Silliman Hall on alternate Tuesday and Friday after- noons at 4 :30 o'clock. Both societies have initiated a large number of men already this year. Philomethean's new members are: C. Hum1ner and E. Hummer of 1916, A. Colson, '17, and Moore, Brown, Clark, Anker, Mason, Uphoff, Swartz, Madden and Riley, all of 1918. Adelphic's new members are: Creble '16, Koon1an '17, Rounds, Bas- com, Vosburgh, Wirth, King, Heatly, Stein, Eddy, Hallenbeck and Swart, of 191'3. There is still opportunity for those interest- ed, however, to affiliate with either society. No meeting of the Debating Council has been held yet, though it is probable that the season's debates will include the annual Alli- son- Foote, between the Adelphic and Philo- mathean societies, a debate with Cornell, and others. All members of last year's 'varsity .teatn are still in college and it is hoped that, with these men as a nucleus, two strong teams can be formed, making possible a tri-league arrangement. PREXY'S ACTIVITIES FOR THE NEAR FUTURE. Dr. Richmond promises to exceed his record of last year in the number of ad- dresses which he is to deliver in the various parts of the state and country. He began his season Tuesday, October 6, when he addressed the New York State Historical As- sociation on \Early Institutions of Learn- ing in the Mohawk Valley. On October 16, \Prexy\, together with other distin- guished educators, will attend a luncheon at Brown University at the celebration of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the university. Saturday, October 20, Dr. Richmond will have charge of the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the removal of the Union College buildings to their present site. ,> !' - I ·' .. , : .. i

:00 A. . e1n, est- ety. has the ' s is two E his ad- . he As- at the the will one f the site. THE CON·CORDIENSIS 13 Hon. Martin H. Glynn, governor of New york State, wil be the principal speaker at these exercises. The college will confer the cfegree of Doctor of Laws on Governor Glynn at this time. Dr. George Alexander of New York ~City, will speak on the history of the college. President Stryker of Hamil- ton College will also deliver an address. On Tuesday, October 20, Dr. Richmond will speak before the State School Superin- tendents at their annual gathering at Troy. The teachers of New York State will have \Prexy\ as their guest on November 24, at the convention of the New York State 'feachers' Association at the Educational Building at Albany.. The subject on which Dr. Richmond is to speak has not yet been announced. No definite schedule for the various alumni meetings has as yet been made, but it is expected that Dr. Richmond wil len- rleavor to attend the meetings of the sons of Union even more extensively than he did passes only in the branches of sport they managed. A complete set of pictures of our athletic teams will be secured by the board and placed in the trophy room of the \gym.\ FRESHMAN FABLES. Number One. As Ira Twigg stepped off the Limited from Cemetery, he was not at all surprised by the Reception Committee that was wait- ing for him. He was a little grieved that the President and at least three representa- tives from the three distinct but important branches of the Faculty were not there, too. But Ira remembered that he h;1.rl nnt \Vritte1l. definitely about his time of arrival. One large individual in a dark jersey seized his carpet-bag as another assimilated his umbrella. Deprived thus of his col- lateral, Ira could do nothing. He had no . I .. ·; last year, when with the aid of good health, and the necessary transportation, he suc- ceeded in going as far west as St. Paul and Minneapolis. marg1n. \Let's see,' aspirated the first individual, gently like No. 1 grade sandpaper on lard. !' >·; ,, .;·'·.,.: \ '.1- ::-.;;; ·'l '-~'1;-i . ~~ ;, ·:·~{ .. '~ ·. :~; · .. \~ .. '. '::~~ ·'~ -\1 ~ . ·~ ·l~ ...• :,l ·.~ '·J.~ )1 ~-d ·,l --·:: ~-i .. A ·, ( \ . '\ ASSISTANT MANAGERS ELECTED. OTHER ACTIONS OF THE BOARD. The Athletic Board has elected the assist- ant managers of track and baseball for the coming seasons. Cornelius D. Lowell was selected for assistant track manager. He i~ a sophomore, from Mt. Clemens, Mich., and a tnember of Alpha Delta Phi. Carlton Newell Smith will be the assistant baseball manager this year. Smith is a sophomore, of Schenectady, and a member of Beta Theta Pi. The board has decided to give the man- agers and assistant managers of every major sport season passes for every game played on the campus. Previously they were given \Let's see-you're \ \Yes sir, Ira Twigg, sir,\ gaspirated our he-ro. \Why to be sure, yes,\ yesponded Ex- bib. A, deftly dislocating Ira's left shoulder with a touch of his palm, and then fanning it back again. \Dr. Richmond sent us around to meet you. Le'me take your bag.\ As he already had it Ira decided to let him. \Le'me take your un1brella,\ emasticated the second individual. Ira did not protest. Our hero did not protest. \That guy's the treasurer of the College. I'm only the president's secretary.\ This news was sifted into Ira's ear by individual No. 1, as he was being coerced gently up the street between the twain . The twain treated Ira tenderly, persua- sively, you-first-ly; would he smoke? If he would he could not light a n1atch. Ira

I I I, 14 THE CONCORDIRNSIS needed m.atches no tnore than if he were in a gas house. It was a. matchless life. The twain supplied all forei:gn and domestic comforts. They eased hin1 :over the gutters, lest he dash his foot again a manhole ; they breathed sweet nothings, tutti-frutti flav- ored in his oyster-shell pink ears; th~y told such funny stories; and they titillated so uproariously at Ira's. Oh, say! They were the three mad wog-wogs all right! Were there ever such merry dogs? (Echo re- sponds: \Yes there's a couple hundred every autumn in every college town in the more or less United States.) And thus by degrees they approached a stately edifice, set back a~mong towering groves, over-shadowing 'Liph N ott's little round building, sedate, memorable, hand- some, the lordly domicle of a score of the finest specimens of American .manhood-in- the-making. How velvet were the terraces, how shaven and green the tender lawns, how cool the deep verandas. \Yes and the words caressed Ira's acoustic orifices with all the bewitching delicacy of bread-fruit falling from a bunch of coral palms in air onto India's coral strand, \Yes said the first individual, \the lawns and terraces are all cut by electricity, the piazza is washed by steam, the tennis court rolled by gravity, the gravel walks raked by sarcasm, the tobacco-jar is self- filling, the Sunday papers are complimen- tary copies, the billiard table never grows dusty, the cues are self-tipping, the tenn1s net grows on every n1orning and withers off again at night and the precedence of classes is rigidly established-freshmen preceeding. With that he seized Ira firmly by the shoulders, pressed him convulsively to him, plastered a burning kiss on his right eye (which soon began to swell and was later treated with raw beef) and then shunt ... ed him off to the second individual, who proceeded to do likewise and so on. Thus Ira caromed off the score ot hright-Ameri ... can-youths-in-the-making. When he came to, a large button of pink and carnation graced his left lapel. DRAMATIC CLUB PLANNING SEASON. In line with the other college activities, the Dramatic Club will soon meet and discuss plans for the ensuing year. New officers are to be elected and candidates will be ·Chosen from among those students who desire to display their talent. Last year's production was a great sue .. cess dramatically as well as financially. It was the first really under-graduate play that has been produced at Union in years. It was an under-graduate play \Pusher's Gusher,\ by an under-graduate, Harry Ewens, '14, of Buffalo, and all the actors were under-graduates. Several of the actors are still in college, among whom may be mentioned Smith '15, Baker '15, Cleveland '15, Santee '16, and Zimmer '16. Inasmuch as Ewens' play was such a success, it be- hooves some other Union student who de- sires to win for himself immortal fame to make another effort in this direction. He may be assured that his work need not have the merit of those of Ibsen or Shaw, for the crowd on the Hill will enjoy a produc- tion of a fellow student and will be con- tent to throw the mantle of charity over the rough places. It is rumored that aver- satile Sophomore who wishes his name withheld for the present, is formulating plans for a literary production of this nature. There should be a good turn-out of new men when Manager Lowell issues his call. \All the world's a stage,\ fellows, and there are several of you who are unable to dis- tinguish yourselves athletically, who, never- theless, can win the plaudits of the multi- tude by a little conscientious practice in this tnost entertaining field of college acti v- ity. ', ~ ' .. ~: ,,•, i ' .,, ', ,'\ ·\1\ ',;!i i ·'i .:;.s .. s· ., t( i,' b ' : ~~i 'I

t ... and .. It It be be- de- to He for his all. er- .. tn . THE CON,CORDIENSIS ' NOTICE TO A. B. FRESHMEN. The attention of A. B. Freshmen is call_ed . h R ·c Alexander Prize Scholarshtp to, t e · · £ which will be av\rarded to some ~e~ber ? the class of 1918. The scholarshtp lS avatl .. able every three years, and is now held by a Senior. Look up the conditions on page 137 of the College Catalogue, and then get busy f TENNIS. So far we cannot predict how good the tennis team \\vill be this coming spring, but we do know that the men will have to train; that we are to have a good schedule, and · .. ~ that the best players will play on the team. . ... This fall we shall have a tournament for ·. :. the championship of the college. By mean~ ..... o£ this tournament we shall be able to :find out who are the best players in college. The eight tnen left in the semi-finals will make up a temporary team. After the tournament any man can challenge any of these eight men for his position until a week ... < before the first game. In this way we hope · <l to give everyone a square show and to keep up a lively interest in this neglected sport. Rules for Tournament. 1. Hand names to Jack Garrison, Girling, ;.; F. L. Smith or Soler. 2. Play two out o£ three sets. 3. First round to be played within three days of opening, October 8, 9, 10. 4. Second round to be played on October ; ',:i 12, 13, 14. 5. Third round to be played October <; ;~ 15, 16. . , ' ; I. ~ 6. If weather permits play on days as- signed or default . 7. Put score of sets by game on the tournament sheet which will be posted on ·::~, bulletin board . 'I ~ .. Rules for Challenging. 1. Hand name of man you wish to chal- lenge and your own name to Soler. 2. You can challenge the same man two times in the fall and two times in the spring .. 3. Play for the best two out of three sets. A week before the first game the regular team will be made up, and those four men will play in the first match, but after the first n1atch any man may challenge any player for his position. It does not n:atter who the player is, if he does not tratn he will not play, so keep out for the team till the last minute. In deciding who will play on the team preference will be given to those who have trained, who have been out for the team the longest this fall and next spring, and who have been on the temporary team the longest, also the choice of the team will be up to the coach first and then to the • captatn. THE ENGLISH CLUB. The English Club, under the direction of Dr. Hale, held its first meeting of the pres- ent year, Friday evening, October 2, in Washburn Hall. Various matters of business came before the meeting. It was decided to have the meetings at 8 :00 o'clock instead of half past eight. The matter of dues was also con- sidered and finally determined at fifty cents per year. The subject of which the club proposes to tnake a critical and an extensive study during the coming year is the work of cer- tain of our contemporary poets. The list includes, William Watson, Rudyard Kipling, Modern French and German poetry will be studied by those members who are inter~ ested in these languages. Alfred Noyes, Austin Dobson, and others.

l ' f 16 T.HE CONCORDIENiSIS THE CONCORDIEN·SIS A Literary and News Weekly Publishedby THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager. Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. GREETINGS. In this, our first issue of the Concor- diensis for the college year of 1914-15, we wish to welcome into our n1idst the mem- bers of the largest class that has ever en .. tered the gates of Old Union. We wish to receive them with all the words of good will which we are able to summon to th~ front and make them feel at home with us at once. We wish to show them our ways and customs, to teach them our precepts and our laws, to guide them with the Union spirit, with the Union love, with the Union loyalty toward those things which are con- sidered best for our Alma Mater and her SDflS. Nineteen-eighteen, we bid you welcome- as friends, as college mates, as brothers- brothers under the common motherhood of our loved and honored Union College. We hope, for your sa:k:es and, for the sake of our college, that the under-class scraps will not he your only line of success but that your overwhelming numbers and your seemingly excellent quality will bring forth good fruit during your four years' stay on the \Hili so that on each moving-up day you vvill be ready, willing and more than able to step in and, not only fill the seats · of those who have vacated in your behalf, but also fill their places,-their positions in the college world and perform the duties al- lotted to you with just a bit more skill and dexterity than they have ever before beet~ performed by your worthy predecessors. Each individual of the Freshman Clas~\ must immediately realize that he has be~ come a unit in an important organization, that he has duties to perform, work to carry out, responsibilities to uphold. He n1ust realize that something is expected of him and the sooner he is able to determine what this something is the better off he will certainly be. In the first place, a freshman sometimes finds it hard, at first, to regard his pro- fessors as anything except harsh task- tnasters who are forever striving to make him work to the very limit of his powers of endurance. Get this misconception out of your head, freshman, those of· you who have it. The professors are your friends and the longer you remain with them, the better you will regard them as such. Treat them with the respect which they deserve hy virtue of their years, their experience, ,,· ·: ·'•':' ,·. i ·,, •: ·,') . ' > •• ·, .·' ''\: .;_; :~ : ·' !; . .'! :::j ··>( ,,\ ' ; ' 1 ., '. -~ :·: '(.< ·: 1,~ ! ' •..•. ~ ~ 1 l t v

of We of will that your 011 day than . 111 al- and beet~ s. as~\ be~ to He of . he pro- out who ends the '~'' THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 their wisdom and their excellent intentions. Don't try to run their classes for them- that's their business. If, however, any hon- est difference of opinion should arise, make your settlement through the Terrace Coun- ciL You will find that this body will try in all cases to set things right and to the satisfaction of all concerned. Don't forget that precedence is the herit- age of upper-classmen. They have earned Give her what you can and give it freely. You will never regret having served OJ d Union; she never forgets a loyal son, never allows a worthy one to go unrewarded. \V e hope that you will consider our words seriously and profit by them, men of 1918, and the fewer tim·es you give us cause to attack your misconduct in these columns, the better pleased we will be with you and your work. <' privileges which you do not yet deserve; ,,· ·: they have climbed the ladder step by step, while you are yet upon the ground; they have worked day by day, proving them- selves fit, while you have yet to show your worth. Show them the respect which they have earned. If you n1ake good, you'll have your own upper-classman days in which . ,_, to run things. Remember the Honor System-remem- ber its lofty purpose, its worthy aims ; re- member why and what it is, what it has .. ,. done and will do, and if you must, remem- ,·. i ber the severe penalty which it inflicts upon those who are unworthy of the privileges :: which Union men enjoy. It is an organiza- . ' tion of which every true and loyal son of ... ·, Old Union is proud. Honor it, respect it, obey it-it's here for your good and the ,,' common good of us all. ; Get into some college activity and work after you get there. College activities are ~' not for parasites but for workers-men that :~ · /. are willing to sacrifice and able to fight, to ·r; stick and win. Don't be a knocker, but see . ~ ::: ~ what you can do yourself. Boost and boost hard. ,,_., Lastly, and including all, be always loyal • ,;; to Union. You will never be able to repay what our college will do for you-never. . . . ', ~ : .. ,.~ ! '·····. DEATH CLAIMS ONE OF UNION'S MOST ESTEEMED FRIENDS. It was with great regret that the students of Union College learned from Dr. Rich- n1ond in college meeting Monday of the death of Mrs. Leavitt. Mrs. Katherine Spencer Leavitt was the daughter of Dr. I chabod Spencer of the class of 1822 and it was through her kindness that we re- ceived the annual winter term course of lectures known as the Ichabod Spencer lec- tures. This is but one of the many ex- amples of loyalty she has shown our col- lege in the past. Five years ago, her gen- erosity in giving $75,000 towards a $100,- 000 sum which was to secure us another $100,000 and eventually did, was a turning point in our financial history and started us on an era of growth, development and expansion which will be traditional among future generations of Union students. Iv1rs. I~eavi tt was a woman of wonderful intellectual strength and artistic insight. As a Christian no finer character than hers can be found. Her death is mourned by many students and graduates of our grand old institution, which she loved with the loyalty of an alum.nus and benefitted with her wisdom and generosity . FRATERNITIES COME TOGETHER FOR UNIFORM RUSHING PLANS . The first meeting of what in all probabili- ties will be an Inter-fraternity Council, was

18 THE CON:CQRDIENSIS held last :Friday evening in Silliman Hall. Representatives of all the fraternities on \the hill\ were present. Plans for a permanent council and for inter-fraternity regulation of rushing were considered and a commit- tee ·conssiting of Carl Byron '15, Ernest Houghton '15, and Gerritt Wood '15, were appointed as a committee to investigate rush- ing conditions and regulations in other col- leges. W. C. Baker '15, was elected chair- man of the conference. Another meeting of the organization will be held in about two weeks at which the information gathered by the committee mentioned will be advanced and some active steps may be taken to place restrictions on rushing, and pledging men. No rules will be adopted, however, without thorough consideration. There has long been a need here at Union for rushing restrictions which will give each ~'crowd\ an equal chance during rushing season and which will give freshmen an opportunity to know each crowd and to de- cide for himself the fraternity question after due consideration on his part. Cornell, Wil- liams, Dartmouth and many colleges the size of Union have adopted uniform rushing regulations with success. It will undoubt- edly he a difficult task to get the consent of all of the crowds to a new rushing system, but in view of the evident need for them restricting rules should be adopted. COUNCIL CHOOSES OFFICERS. At a meeting of the Terrace Council which took place in Dave Beaver's room at Ellis Hospital, Raymond Blodgett and Henry Faust were elected to the offices of presi- dent and secretary respectively. Heinie will, in addition to acting as secretary, take charge of the funds of the organization. THE SCRAPS. A ·Freshman's Viewpoint. At the close of registration day, Septem- ber 14th, 1914, when it was seen that one hundred and eighty-three men had regis· tered as freshmen in Union College, it be- gan to dawn on everybody, especially the sophs, that the week's scraps were going to be hard fought and neither side would win an easy victory. The spirit of unity was readily noticeable in the ranks of the freshmen. It was sur- prising the loyalty each one showed by turning out for all the meetings and fights during the week. Especially the morning of the final fight did this unity become evid- ent. Every healthy freshman on the hill and nearly all of those not on the hill, turned out early that morning and the uncanny sight of about 150 green caps sent a cold chill down every sophomore's back. All the available sophs were out and after chartering a deep sea-going moving van, began to swoop around the campus and snatch a few innocent \frosh\ off the face of the earth and drag them in to the van. They stripped the clothes off of every man they got and of course rendered them helpless. The sophs in the van pretty soon began to think they were invincible and drove right through a flock of freshmen, evidently with the intention of inviting them all to step into their auto and have a ride. They were sadly fooled in this attempt and barely escaped with their lives and their van. Seeing it was useles to do anything on foot, the frosh also hired a sea-going . omnibus and after loading it to the roof, gave chase. Barney Oldfield never ran a. more exciting nor a tighter race than this one. Right down the main streets of Sch~­ nectady, regardless of traffic cops or street cars, these two insane asylums on wheels tore at the terrific rate of 12 miles an hour. The freshmen's 'bus stuck to them like glue eve!! with all their dodging and doubl- •' ', ·, ·.,.· ' ~'f-/: •:.: .' I -~ . ). 1 ,. i·' ] : '~ t 1 r

one . be- the to . Wlll sur- by ghts . and chill van, and of they into . · a. this like THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 ing back. The sophs finally returned to the dormitories into which they fled in terror. undisputed kings of the day. After painting the idol with a hecomin~~ coat of red paint, the frosh form.ed in line for a parade and the world was theirs. The victorious parade took in the main streets of the town and then disbanded. The 191~ freshm·en's victory was one of the most con1- pl ete in years. 'That ended the fighting for the morning: but about 3 :30 in tbe afternoon the frosh again assembled for the final scrap and this time by actual count 144 were on hand. After bedecking themselves with red war paint they adjourned to the chapel where a leader and temporary president, \Bob·'' Faust, was elected. With their enthusiasm keyed to the highest pitch, they then filed do-vvn onto the meadow four abreast and there awaited the coming of the brave little band of sophs. The first fight was the salt and tomato fight. The sophs were up against a nearly hopleless proposition, being outnumbered over two to one. The result was as ex- pected. Some of the sophs were down wal- lowing .in tomato juice and salt and the rest ~.:· were completely surrounded, helpless be- . , l.· cause their supply of salt was exhausted. This was one victory for the frosh. The next contest was the cane rush. Numbers were of no avail in this battle, making the odds more even. . It was a . ; shade to the advantage of the sophs if any- thing on account of their being through ?, the same fight before. The baseball bat was .... ,· t'hrown up exactly midway between the two · . •; lines and when the judges worked their way to the bottom of the pile they found 19 ·· .. •: hands desperately clinging to it. Ten of · ' them were freshmen and only nine sophs. . , This was the greatest victory of all and · ' decided definitely the outcome of the cane rush. Both classes next ran for the idol to have one last desperate struggle which would fix the color of the idol for the rest of the sea- . ·c; son. The frosh arrived there first and sur- ,'·'.> rounded it and here again their superior .. i, numbers made it a hopeless task for the , .:·~ sopbs to try and force them to evacuate. After putting up a plucky fight the sophs retired in good order and left the frosh A \SOPH\ SAW IT ALL LIKE THIS. This little story I'm going to tell you hap- pened on the day of the cane-rush. It is entirely true, I assure you, and some twenty or so Freshmen will vouch for it. They've been reticent about relating it for one reason and another-that's why I'm doing it: Way up in the heart of the Scotia moun- tains a new day was dawning. The sun was nosing up over the hills in the East; the cows in the scattered barn yards were be- ginning to low and stamp. The farmers sleepily opened their doors and gazed up the road to find what sort of weather was des- tined for the day-and most of them ex- claimed, \Well ·by Heck!\ You'd have been surprised, too. For down the dusty turnpike was plodding, single- filed, a procession of the most dejected, woe- hegone human beings you can imagine. A good thirty of them there were, clanking along with their lagging feet clamped .in huge anchor chains and hot tears of dis pair streaking down their cheeks. And on their heads they were wearing bright green caps with red buttons. As they clanked over the hills they chanted solemnly to the song of the chains, \Right! Left! Right! Left!\ and occasionally when one of the marchers-prisoners, they really were-would burst into tears, a big burly guard would rush up with the stave of a harrell and-console him ! Arrived at a cer- tain farm house far up in the hills, the head guard called \Umph !\ and the prisoners with mechanical obedience formed in a large

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS ''U'' about a thunder struck farmer milking a cow, crossed their hands upon thetr breasts, balanced themselves on one foot and recited in a dreary monotone :-· \A Freshman is a slimy thing- Slin1y like an ,eel: I shudder when I see one near, 'Cause that's the way I feel!\ Then a guard stepped forward, raised his arms for attention and directed: \'Fhe Anvil Chorus now. Please bring out the bass chains more strongly on the after beat. Ready! One-two-three, one-two-three,-\ and \clink-clank! clink-clank!\ rang the chains seventeen times, then a pause and seven teen tin~es again. \Now then, we must have a poet bacculau- rette,\ from another guard. \I nominate No. six there. All in favor-'' \Aye!\ howled the six other guards. \No whispered one little voice. Then, swish-whack ! \Wow ! I mean yes !\ and number six arose very quickly. \An original verse in tetiambic metre, please. Don't stop to think-talk!\ Number six looked around wildly, then spied the cow. \Um-ah- I love the beautiful cow; it-it is a gentle beast. Uh-it is a useful animal- it-it-it gives milk!\ A profound silence, broken by chorus of groans and terrible cries from the guards. \l\. wful! Sacriligious ! Kill him!\ The first guard raised his hand for silence. \Gentlemen I move you that number six be exterminated! I move you that he be hung by the neck until-\ Whereupon the prisoners broke down utterly and to a man cried as if their very hearts were breaking. The farm yard was filled with tearing sobs and ran wet with tears. It was more than the hardest heart could bear. First one guard, then another, drew forth his handkerchief and wept unre- strainedly. The farmer was crying like a child and the old cow dropped tear after tear into the milk pail. The first guard spoke again : ''I -b-boohoo I can't st-stand it. Let's release then1.\ The chains were knocked off the prison- ers' feet with willing hands and presto! they were gone. Some went up trees ; some disappeared in hollow logs, others made a bee line for the nearest horizon. And the sophomores, wet-eyed and sorrowful, took the car back home. Some of the Freshmen trickled back to the city that night; a few have been located far out in the West. Some will probably never be seen again~ As I write this I see by the evening paper that a skeleton with a green cap upon it's head has just been found near the city of Chicago. I tell this incident not from a sophomore's point of view, but from the unprejudiced viewpoint of true fact. And now just a word from the sophn.., mores to you freshmen-perhaps some tJf you are reading this. You've blundered along more or less successfully so far, but don't let that pull the wool over your eyes. Next May, when moving up day comes around, we're going to lick the stuffffing out of you. If you should dare to hold a banquet we'll shave the head of every man in your class, and if one of you break a single college rule, well-well, you'd better not get caught at it! UNION VICTORIOUS IN SECOND GAME OF SEASON. Forward Pass Wins for the Garnet. Hobart went down to defeat 7 to 3, Sat- urday afternoon, on Alexander field in an exciting, close contest. Union put up a gatne different from that of the previous Saturday, in that the team displayed trem- endous energy and spirit and used its strength to the very best advantage. For three periods the tean1s battled each other .·.:,- '<.) ;: ''i' ' I' .i . ' ~ i , I '·, t ' ( l ' ,•, I ·~ f ·:· ... g e l c b <~- a: ); ft -,~ ·. --~ .. .... ~ ' : ' I

a the ook to see a und ' s tJf but mes a a Sat- an a . its For rHE CON,CORDIENSIS 21 to a standstill, although loyal Union men felt that the Garnet was having the best of it. Captain Starbuck's men were on the aggressive most of the time, using trick plays and wide runs as well as volcanic line-plunging, with great success. Several : . times during the first three periods a goal .. f seemed imminent, but on each occasion the ' /). home team was penalized. It was stated ,•,:,- that Union lost one hundred yards for pen- alties. On defense the Garnet was a veritable .:,, stonewall. Tin1e after time Hobart's brawny ··· offensive machine hurled itself at Union's .· :.~ line only to be held for no gain and fre- quently to be thrown back. One or two ·:. spots on the line could be bolstered hut in general the strong defense was a good omen for the season. . <.) ;: ''i' In the fourth period both teams scored; Union first on the identical play w:hich won · 1 its first touchdown against St. Lawrence the Saturday before. Throughout the game Jake Beaver had been heaving long forward passes down the field almost invariably to · ·· i see them intercepted or fumbled. But in the · · \ fourth quarter about sixty yards frotn H?bart's goal, Jake cut loose with a long spiral. Girling, who was titillating about forty yards down the field, gathered the , . pigskin coyly to his arms, crawled under three or four Genevans, outdistanced half a dozen more, and planted the ball carefully between the goal posts. A moment lat~r Wally kicked the goal. . Hobart should not have scored at all. . ··: But a combination of penalties, one or two fumbles, and an error or so lost valuable · ground for the Garnet. A Hobert confer- enc.e ~as called within twenty-five yards of Unions goal. Apparently they felt the _Gar?et would be further impregnable to anv b?dlly assault, so they decided to call in the .. ~ aid of the air. Whereupon Captain Smith ' fullback, brinklied between the goal posts: Score: Union 7, Hobart 3. This was not ren1arkably brilliant foot- ball in the opinion of the bleachers. Hokerk, Wood, and Jenkins (who played only part of the game) distinguished them-· selves for work on the line, while Pete Starbuck and Old Bill Friday at the ends broke up lots of Hobart interference and nailed their men with monotonous regular- ity. Byron played a fast, clever game at halfback; and Dow Roof was right there with the old pep at full. Half way through the third quarter Peck Cleveland gave Roof a much needed rest, and showed some of the most consistent ground-gaining plunging seen here for a long time. Girling's punting '\\ras notable. 'throughout the game a number of sub- stitutions were made which showed the fact that the squad this year is exceptionally strong. The band gets better and better, the cheering section worked hard, and-Syra- cuse 81, Hamilton 0! That's enough pie for one afternoon. UNION. HOBART. Starbuck -------------~----------- Angel Left end. Wood ---------------------------- Mapes Left tackle. Price ---------------------------- Robins Left guard. Hokerk -------------------------- Hubbs Center. Vrooman ------------------------ Pascoe Right guard. DuBois ------------------------ Spalding Right tackle . Friday -------------------------- Jenkins Right end. ]. Beaver ---------------------- Lansdell Quarterback. Byron ----------------·-------- Campbell Left halfback. Girling ------------------------- Thornton Right halfback. Roof------------------------------ Smith Fullback.

'fHE CONCORDIENStS Score: Union, 7; Hobart, 3. Touchdown, Cirling; kick from placement, Smith; goal from touchdown, Girling. Substitutes: Union-· Jackson for Vrooman, Jenkins for DuBois, Rosecrans for Girling, Cleveland for Roof, Girling for Rosecrans, Anderson for Byron, Downs for. Friday, Roof for Cleveland, Hanson for Starbuck, Byron for Anderson, Rockwell for Jenkins, DuBois for Wood, Vrooman for Jackson. Hobart-· :Piffer for Robbins and McDougall for Angel. Referees-Miller, Haverford. Umpire-- Watkins, Syracuse. Head lineman, StaT- buck.. Time of quarters, 12 minutes. PREPARATIONS FOR TRACK SEA- SON IN PROGRESS. If Union expects to defeat Colgate this year, and she certainly does, there are a number of preliminaries which are neces- sary. First, and most important, Captain Dent tells us that we need men. Many men upon whom the hopes of the college rested have graduated and others did not return .. There are more Freshmen here than ever before, and it is from their ranks, mainly, that new candidates must be recruited. All men, whatever be their class, should begin to train immediately. Men whose specialty is not cross-country should also try to keep in condition, for past experience has demon- strated that the men who do not neglect themselves show up best in spring practice. Jimmy Baker, Union's star record breaker, is now numbered among the alumni, and it \\rill take several men to take his place. But one man does not make a team, and so we may face the coming season with a smile. Raymond Newton '16, will captain the cross-country squad for the remainder of the season. HN ewt\ is an experienced runner and the men will work for him. Frosh, sophs, juniors, seniors, get in your running togs and see how good you are. NEW FOOTBALL RUL:ES. At the official meeting last fall several new interpretations were incorporated into the regular code of rules. The principal altera- tions follow: 'I'his year no one will be allowed to walk up and down the sidelines. Thus the last privilege of the head coach is taken· away. Teams can no longer encroach upon the neutral zone in making shift plays. The penalty for this will be five yards. The kick-out will be illegal, and after a touch ... back or safety the ball must be scrim- maged on the twenty yard line. In case a player is out of bounds when the ball is put in play, the play will not be made over again, but a :five yard penalty will be exacted. The following rules which relate to the forward pass should be of especial interest to Union men: A forward pass that goes out either on a fly, direct, or after being touched by an eligible player of either side goes to the op- ponents. A rule has been added putting a penalty on a player who roughs a man who has just made a forward pass. The receiver of a forward pass in the end zone must have both feet inside the lines. Last year when a man attempted to make a forward pass hut was forced back~ he frequently threw the ball to the ground, thus having it, by loss of a down, return to the position where it was scrimmaged. This season a ten yard penalty will be in- flicted against any man thus intentionally grounding a forward pass. TERRACE COUNCIL ELECTIONS. At a meeting of the Student Body, Sep- tember 28, Donald A. Starbuck, and David J. Beaver were elected to the Terrace Coun- cil. Both these men have been prominent ( 1 ( ) ·.···.:·. 1 .. ' ( .· ... :' :. a ·:.'·b \. •. ; ;b ····;S .:er ' ' l: . c\

new the last the The er a . be will the on a an op- just end ines. he to . tn- Sep- oun- THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 in college activities, and their successes have made them immensely popular. knows what a stimulant good rooting is. The Mandolin Club was assured of great success this year at its first meet- ing. At that time there were eighteen old members, and fourteen try-outs present, and again the freshmen exhibited not only quantity but som·e qaality. Due to the fact that many of the prospective members were unable to attend on account of football and work, it is expected that the next meeting will see more new faces. If any man can use a pick, he ought to come out . Starbuck has played on the 'varsity eleven for three years, and this season is captain of the team. He played on his class basketball team Freshman, Sophomore and Junior years. He was a member of last year's Junior Prom. Committee and was also a member of his class cane committee. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi frat- ernity. Beaver has made good in all branches of athletics. He has played on the basket- ball team throughout his course and was captain last season. Sophomore and junior years he played on the baseball and foot- · ... :·. ball teams. It is the regret of the entire · ; college that a recent appendicitis operation ···•·· .. : will prevent his playing this fall. He is .: also a member of the Chemical Club. The members that were chosen last spring :~·by the retiring Terrace Council are Blod- :·.: gett, Del champs, Faust and Woods. Coul- . : ; ter by his election to the presidency of the ·· ·. ; Senior Class, becomes a member ex-officio. MUSICAL CLUBS AT WORK. : ' Good s·howing Made by All Departments. \Music hath charms,\ and from the pres- :ent outlook the musical clubs are going to ; charm as they never charmed before. '' ., Our band is at work again under the · .·~·leadership of Gunning '16, and prospects are ff'bright for the best year of its existence. . JThe freshmen responded to the \call for re- . . ;;tt:cruits\ admirably, and have supplied some : ·~much needed material. Six or seven of this '•tJ• ·· .. Jyear's band will be freshmen. But credit ·}must be given where it is due; consequently o<:the old members deserve a pat on the back ·,-~for turning out so well for our first game ~With St. Lawrence. The primary object of · i:this organization is to \root in the sense · .,. encouraging the team on to victory, and ny man who has ever played on a team The Glee Club held its first meeting of the year in Siliman Hall, Friday evening. An unusually large number were present to try for positions. In fact this year has every appearance of being a banner year for the Glee Club. About fifty fellows tried out their voices and some very good mater- ial was uncovered. The club is especially rich in first and second bassos, while first tenors are extremely rare. If there are any fellows who have not reported yet, who think they are good tenors, come to Siliman Hall and let Garry Wood try them out. There are several places vacant, so come out and show what you have. Of the fifty or more fellows who tried out, the following men were selected. 1916-Derouville, Embree, H. 0. Allen, Mallen, Newton. 1917-Knight, Lasher, Ball, Morrison, Roberts, Lester, Meade, Hendry, Williams. 1918-Slade, Schuyler, Neuhaus, Talbot, Beckett, Hawley, Tell, Giliman, Vosburgh, Reid, Still, Waugh, Hoag, Faust, Brignel1, Kennedy, Dorion, Frasier, Beauman, Stein, Beklan. Distinguished One: \You arn't the caddy who was with me yesterday?\ Thoughtless Caddy: \No sir, we pitched a nickle for you and I got stuck.\

If y·ou want anyth.ing from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store fil Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Ask any college or high school man in the Capitol District, what clothes meas- ure up to his ideals in styles. Ask any discriminating dresser what clothes best meet his ideas of refined taste. The answer will invariably be \STEEFEL QUALITY CLOTHES\ Add to the above, unusual values and you have the rea- son for the wonderful popularity of Steefel Clothes. Fall Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 · & lOc Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's . 'Phone 4454- J. • NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S ''THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE-PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SU:RE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are · only possible in a metropolitan s t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PATrON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Bridfie. 1. .. i ,, ·.; i •;' [ . i . ·;

- 1. .. ; ,, ·.; i ·;' More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. .L. SCHWARTZ NtEWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady; N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra · 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. The Schenectady Clothing Company I] Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED THE . · BARBER ' THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys.

Portraits Jf,~ Your Inspection of our Product Cord·ially Invited THe STVDIO OP OVER PATTON & HALL The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear F eft Shoes fit pertectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State J Just Right THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN $4.50 TO $7.00 Metropolitan Styles .8 Expert Fittings Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. Watch this space in the Next Issue ·I I . ,:· 1-· :~. ! ·,: ' .. 1;: ' .. ·· lo\· ' •• , I.'\.\' i\ l• f 1 ;. ,· ' .. I.',·.

·' ,l I .· ,· ' .. Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real ·German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. United Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. H. J. SCHWARTZ, Manager. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Reserved for KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP QUALITY LAUNDRY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACTiON combined makes clear the reason why SP ALD- ING'S are outfitters to champions whose im- plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Mark represents years of leadership in the n1anufacture of athletic equipment. A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pau lng ros. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdas:hery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 1 54 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

i ' i . I ( ... .. . sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN: ~ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little - we think you'll like us and our wax 0~ d()ing business. The Colleae Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press

VOL. 38 THE: P·VBL ISHED·WEEK L Y BY· THE S·TVDE NTS • OF· VNI ON'· C OLL EG E That is indeed a two-fold knowledge, which profits alike by the folly of the foolish, and wisdom of the wise. It is both a shield and sword ; it borrows its security from the darkness, and its confidence from the light. -COLTON. OCTOBER 15th, 1914 NO.2

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Courses leadilig to the degree o'l .A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then 'be required to study Greek for two years. Proficien<:y in Latin , is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree Gf Ph. B. LA'I'IN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree o1 B. s. ScntNTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree o1 B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. . SANI'l'ARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRsE LEADING 'to DEGREE o~ M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats CouRSE t.EADINC To DEG:RElt o:tt M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE oF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac ... tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. 'TucKER, M. D.t Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA. J. PARKER, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL--This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitoL It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $1 ro. For catalogue or other information, address: joHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALPRltD B. H UESTED J Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Ex•m•u GUNNING'l6 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ( ,, f I I ' l I : I / '.;· .

of is- by c ... of its • lS ers. fee, ded \ I : I } f I I ' '· . ',,_,· . ,t' . ::; : ',' '.;· ., . ( ,; ... ; ·::-;·: ' ,t..-1 ·~ '.~ ... '!I Ti<AUK MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S french, Shriner & Urner .Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. AU styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS • THE CAIN'S Leading teachers in Modern D~ncing. Pupils received every Monday, Wednes- day and Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Private lessons by appointment. At Arcade Hall, near N.Y. C. Depot. All the New Dances taught properly, thorough- ly and aystematicalJy. The Cains have made a special study of modern dancing with society's foremost designers of Atlantic City, New York and Chicago . TELEPHONE 1920 Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS f~9ia~~:; Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats. Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

BABBITT & CO'S. FALL AND WINTER DISPLAY OF Am,erica's Most Famous Make ROGERS-PEET CO. Is full of the strongest kind of attractions for every man who is keen for clothes whose equal can only be found in highest price Custom- Tailor Shops. The last word in select fabrics, exclusive tailoring and up-to-the-hour correct styles will be found in this exceptionally strong line. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF Rogers-Peel Co's. Dress Clothes In our Dress Clothes Department will be found all the latest and best ideas in smart Day and Evening Dress for men. This Department is a revelation to many men who have visited it and found therein the highest type of Dress Clothes possible to produce,-garments which in fit, fashion and quality the most expensive of custom made clothes can not improve upon at double the price. Babbl .tt &· ·Co \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ • 451-453 RROADW A Y @)a.c:.P. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. vVe are not living in the stage-coach decade, at whir.h tbne the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as one did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. · BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawing lnka I Eternal Writin• Ink Engrossing Ink ~ I I l Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste Drawina! Board Paate Liquid Paste Office Paste Vegetable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 3 r Steuben Street,

Grand Opera Stars Choose TUXEDO The Favorite Tobacco of the World's Best Singers .... · · THE. wo. rid's great. singers, the · b . h f d · LEO SLEZAK . rig t stars 0 gran opera, must ,.Tuxedo mean1 tohacco have confidence in the tobacco they superiority It easily holds : · k h b · h first place in my opinion on . smo e, must c oose a to acco t at account of its wonderful i has no harmful effect on their mildness and fragrance., throats. Leading singers at the M etropol- itan Opera House during the cur- rent season- Slezak, Jorn, Gilly, Didur, Griswold, Witherspoon- find Tuxedo the one tobacco they can smoke with thorough enjoy- ment and absolute safety. Tire Per/eel Tohacco /or Pipe and Cigarette Tuxedo cannot sting, bite or irri- tate the delicate membranes of the mouth or throat. If you try Tuxedo for a month and cut out other smokes, you will find that you are getting the utmost sat- isfaction and enjoyment possible out of your smoking, and at the end of the month your general health will be improved. Try Tuxedo This Week/ YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE .. KARLJORN • • Tuxedo is the ideal smo~e in m:y opinion. If you find your energy 3agging, try a pipeful of Tuxedo. It's a UJOnder/ul hracer ... t/f;rtd~ Convenient pouch, 5 Famous green tin, DINH GILLY inner- Lined with with gold lettering, JOe ,.Pipe smoking gives adJ .. moistUJ\e•proof paper C curved to fit pocket ed pleasUI'e when the pipe is In Glas• Humidor•, SOc and 90c filled with TuxeJo. Tuxedo provides more ~een enjoy- FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for post• menl than an.v other tohac• · age and we wi11 mail you a souvenir co I ~now. 111 tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any ,.,t..._ point in the United States. Address ~.· W ('e[& 7 . THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY // -• Room 1299 ill Fifth Avenue New York

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note theae Prices: Shirts all Kinds ..................... lOc . Collars ................................ 2c Union Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ........... 6c each Hose ....................... 3c per pair Handkerchiefs ....................•.. 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Cotrell and Leonard AIJBANY, N. Y. Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraiti'eJ frOm the Atlantic to the Pacific. Clast contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street FRESHMEN Follow your upper Class Men. They use MAZDA LAMPS. Your efficiency will be increased by study- ing under this high effic- iency light. SCHENECTADY IlLUMINATING CO. 511 State St. 'Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnr:e No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

Clothing Furnishings Hats Wetre ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires l!l Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ~-EUROPEAN-­ HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane ,Albany, ,N, Y GENTI EMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS · Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathske11er. Bo\\·]ing A1ley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. 1\nnex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. 'Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Crea\'ery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, supe.riority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in .before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to aU College Student is yours for the asking. . 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 • 507 State Street Sc,henectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360- W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 7Sc I~adies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c l\{en's Heels ________________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 803 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES -- ________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle•• Rel)reaen t•tiYe 1908 1914 1915 ROW TANGO SHIRTS are an evening dress • necessity. The bosoms are tucked, puffed, plea- ted or ''mushroom.\ $2.00 a,nd up Cluett, Peabody& Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 198· W. '122 Eastern Ave. .i I,

·1.' The Concordiensis VOL. 38 OCTOBER 15, 1914 N0.2 CENTENNIAL OF THE ERECTION ,OF NORTH AND SOUTH COLLEGE. Next Saturday, October 17th, will be a gala -day for old Union. One hundred years ago, the college was moved from the corner of Union and College Streets, to its present site. Exercises commemorating the occasion will be held in the new gymnasium at three o'clock. Prominent men will be speakers and several degrees will be conferred. After the exercises there will be an academic pro- cession of faculty, board of trustees, in- vited guests and students. A dinner is to be served in the evening at one dollar a plate. Also president and Mrs. Richmond will be at home. The list of speakers follows: Dr. A. V. V. Raymond, a former president of Union, will make the prayer; Dr. George Alexander, also a former president of .union, will de- liver the historical address ; Governor Glynn of New York, President Rush Rhees of the University of Rochester, President M. Woolsey Stryker of Hamilton College, and President Alexander Meiklejohn of Am- herst, will give short addresses. \In July, 1806, within two years after as- suming the presidency of Union College, l~liphalet N·ott proposed the acquisition of a new site. I-Ie saw the possibilities of the Hill, then a rugged wilderness. He began purchasing the land. Two hundred and fif(t acres, bought on his credit, became the prop- erty of the colelge in 1812. The present col- lege site is the chosen remainder. To change the wilderness into a garden and to plan dignified and spacious buildings with a view to future growth Doctor Nott en- gaged the best man available. This was Jacques Ramee, the eminent French lands- cape architect ·and military engineer, who had been employed by the United States government on fortifications and public works. M. Ramee prepared the perfect plan which determined the excellence of Union's grounds and buildings. Work was begun. Funds were got through legislative grant. North College and South College were open- ed and dedicated to use in the autumn of 1814. The improvement of the grounds con- tinued later and was supplemented in after years by the college garden ; made by Isaac W. Jackson. The character of the first great work of construction has ever since conferred distinction on Union. Let it be remembered. \The original plan, dated 1813, and signed by Jacques Ramee was acquired in Paris in 1890 by William E. Benjamin, '80. It be- came the property of the late Robert C. Alexander, '80, who gave it to Union. It rtow hangs in President Richmond's office.\ -Union College Bulletin. A booklet containing the proceedings of the centennial will b~ published shortly. It contains many college views done in alco- gravure. It will sell at two dollars per copy.

10 THE CONCORDIE'NSIS PREXY SPEAKS TO HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION. In an address to the New York State Historical Association delivered on Tues- day, October 6, Doctor Richmond pointed out the main points in the educational his- tory of this state. As examples of the small type of College, President Richmond mentioned Union and Hamilton Colleges especially. In comparing such institutions to the larger university of modern times, the speaker said, in part : ((The big university, the educational de- partment store-the educational experimer~­ tal station, are products of this age. They have their uses, but they do not and can- not do the work which colleges such as Hamilton and Union are doing. Greatness is not to be measured by size. Judged by any true standard these two may justly be called great. The influence they have ex- erted upon the educational, political and religious life of this state and of the country is hardly to be measured. The roll of not- able men they have sent out is too long even to be called, but, confining ourselves to the field of education alone, I may remind yo11 that there are colleges in every part of the land that owe their success, if not their very existence, to these old colleges in the Mo- hawk valley. Especially is this true of Union.\ ALUMNI NOTES. Dalton V. Sarvey '14 of Elmira is on the \hill\ assisting Coach Da.wson and Story 'l 4, in coaching the football team. James V. Baker '14, is a member of the New York Athletic Club track team and this summer won the metropolitan cham- pionship in the broad jump, making 22 feet 11 3-4 inches. George Wadsworth '14, has sailed for Beirut, Syria, where he will teach in the Protestant Cyrian College. WHO'S WHO IN THE HONORARY SOCIETIES. At a final meeting of Sigma Xi held dur- ing commencement week, June, 1914, the following officers were elected for the pres- ent year: President, Prof. Opdyke; vice- president, Prof. Garis; recording secretary, Prof. King; treasurer, Prof. Garrison; and corresponding secretary, Prof. Taylor. As no meeting of the society has been held as yet this fall, no program for this year has been made. The Union chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has elected the following officers for the year 1914-1915 : President, Dr. Alexander Duane; vice-president, Hon. Clarence Akin; treasurer, Mr. Robert J. Landon ; and sec- retary, Prof. Morton C. Stewart. A move- ment .is under way to elect members from the senior class before the close of the col- lege year. This would tend toward making the chapter more active. ADELPHICS TO PUBLISH HISTORY. The Adelphic Debating Society has un- dertaken a new task in preparing to publish a history of the society. Perhaps it is not a familiar fact that debating is probably the oldest college activity at Union, the Adel- phic Society being founded in 1795, about the time the college received its charter. In scope the history will be a record of t4e society a~d especially of the individual men1bers. Many of the most noted alumni of Union were members of Adelphic, and it is intended by the Board of Editers to give the record in after life of these men. Tt is planned to have cuts of the most promin- ent of these alumni. The memorial is in charge of James Fitzgerald, editor-in-chief of the board, l)onald Coulter is assistant editor, and Ray·· mond Blodgett, busines-s manager. At a recent meeting of the society a committee v 1 .ras chosen to assist with the preparation. i \ 1 _I

as as er m •· it a I : ' \ :; J THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 The members of this committee are: Fitz- gerald, Coulter, Blodgett, R. 'raylor, J. Taylor, Van Avery, Yurpit, Creble, Koo- man, Rounds, Bascom, Vosburg, Wirth,· King, Heatly, Stein, Eddy, Hallenbeck, Swart and Prof. McKean of the faculty. This committee will soon begin the work of collecting the individual data. THE BIGELOW MEMORIALS. Following the expressed desire of some of the close friends and devoted admirers of the late John Bigelow, it was proposed to perpetuate his memory, and the memories of many other sons of Union, by the erection of a lasting memorial. It was felt that the most fitting tribute to this noted alumnus would be a building erected on the campus of his alma mater, with lecture halls and rooms devoted to his favorite studies: history, politics, and litera- ture; and the establishment therein of a John Bigelow professorship of political science. The building will be named the \John Bigelow 11emorial Hall,\ and will stand on the tnain avenue of the college grounds entered through the gateway erect- ed to the memory of John Howard Payne of the class of 1810. The service of John. Bigelow to his coun- try will always be gratefully remembered. While William H. Seward, his fellow grad- uate of Union, was serving as Lincoln's sec.- retary of State, John Bigelow, as minister to France, was performing a no less delicate task in preventing the intervention of France, and in maintaining our national credit among the countries of Europe. After his return to New York he devoted his time to literary work. His ~vritings were n1any and important, and when he died at the age of ninety-four he held a place of un- usual esteem among his fellow countrymen. In the last few years of his life Mr. Bigelow turned with peculiar affection to his old col- lege, and putting aside his boyhood res~nt­ ment against certain former members of the faculty, he thought only of its interest an(l advancement, and it is certain that a m.emor- ial serving such a useful purpose as the fi.t- ting of young men for better citizenship 1s one of which he would warmly approve. When completed, the two memorials will cost not less than $100,000, of which $23,000 has already been pledged, and the committee in charge is working steadily to raise this amount. Oswald G. Villard of the \N e\\lv York Evening Post,\ is treasurer of the fund, and all contributions should be sent to hint. UNION TEAM PROVES STRENGTH. Defeat of Wesleyan a Surprise to Dopt::u sters. Last Saturday night the Mohawk Valley was ablaze with psycological pyrotechnics, the G. E. Company was crimson with etherial fire, water and oil were mixing freely, one could light a mazda lamp with a safety match, and there were ghosts of joy and joyous ghosts abroad in staid old Dorp-for the football team which repre- sents Old Union had scored a thrilling and decisive victory over Wesleyan University. To Middletown and the dopesters at large the victory was about the biggest surprise of the season, but after the team's former successes it came quite naturally to Union supporters. The feeling was prevalent Qll the campus that this year if ever, the Car· dinal and Black \Vere scheduled for defeat. It was through an error in the third quarter that Jenkins got possession of the ball and romped fifty yards down the field. Girling contributed his quota by kicking the goal. Except for the costly fumble Wesleyan put up a strong battle which developed into a kicking dual between Captain Kenan of Wesleyan and Girling. Reports of the game state that Girting had

I 1\' I I I . I I j . I J f ; l; 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS slightly the better of the argument. Wesleyan threatened Union most se..,· ·· erely in the first quarter when they acl· vanced the ball to the Garnet's fourteen yard line. Then as was the case again&t Hobart, Union's line became adamant and . a forward pass was intercepted which gave the ball to Union. Girling punted out of danger. Shortly afterwards in the same quarter the Cardinal and Black forced the ball to Union's twenty-five yard line. I-lere Captain Kenan attempted a drop kick for goal which failede Again Union's defense strengthened and after that was impregn- able. Shortly before the first half closed Cap- tain Kenan succumbed to a broken collar bone and was forced to leave the game. Without Kenan the Middletown team was severely handicapped. 1.\'hen in the third quarter, Johnson fumbled the ball. Immediately Jenkins was on it. In a flash he outdistanced his pursuers and planted the ball neatly be- tween Wesleyan's goal posts. It was a tiny fluke, but it proved costly. Three times in the fourth quarter Union approached their opponent's thirty-five yard line. On two occasions drop kicks were attempted, and the third time Union tried a place-kick. All three were unsuccessful. But the score was: Union 7, Wesleyan 0. So there was joy in Schenectady Saturday night. The summary: WESLEY AN UNION Bovard -------------------------- Friday right end. <iordon ---------------~--------- Jenkins righ tackle . Sargenty ---~--------------- ___ Jackson right guard . Eaton -------------------------- Ffokerk center. Young -----~-~---~--------------- Price left guard. Talbot ---------------------·---------- Rockwell left tackle. Nourse ------------------------ Cleveland left end. Slocum ~---------·--~--------~-~- Beaver quarterback. Johnson -------------------------- Girling right halfback. Hingely --------------------- Moynahan left halfback. ltenan ----------------------------- Roof fullback. Summary-Score-Union, 7; Wesleyan, 0. 1~ouchdown-· Jenkins. Goal kicked- Girling. Substitutions-Wesleyan: Hal- lock for Boone, Thompson for Eaton, Wilk- inson for Young, l\1arlathaler for Hingely, Storkey for Marlathaler, Hingely for l(enan. Union-Vrooman for Jackson, Starbuck for Cleveland, Houghton for Beaver, Downs for Friday, Rosecrans for Moynahan, Stoller for Foof. Referee- Carpenter, Amherst. Umpire-Bergen, Princeton. Head linesman-. Collett, Trin- ity. Time of periods-Eleven and ten minute quarters. SENIOR CLASS COMPLETES ELEC- TION OF OFFICERS. At a meeting of the class of 1915 which took place on September 23, Donald A. Coulter was elected president; Thomas A. Dent, vice-president, and William H. Man- deville, secretary-treasurer. Nominations were also made at this, meeting for Graduate Council member and historian. At a meet- ing of the class last Tuesday, in the chapel, Raymond Blodgett was elected to the Grad- uate Council, Harold J. Delchamps was chosen as class historian and I~ynde HokerJ<: was elected as senior member of the Publi- cation Board. How about some new football songs for the Hamilton Game? I I·. r; '·; -I

ling ilk- for for for . A. A. et- or •-., ( ( ··. . ' ' I I f : ' . I I I'·-~ '! -I rHE CONCORDIENSIS 13 LOCATNG IT. The River of Doubt rises in the Lakes of Possible Support and flows into the Gulf of Unresit~d 1~emptation, beyond which lie the Mountains of Unattainable Office.-Louis- ville Courier-Journal. Dear Clat: Don't you think that the prac- tice of hair cutting is barbarous? FROSH. Dear Frosh: No more so than a close shave. ~'Say, Clat, who writes all these funny jokes for the Concordy ?\ ''What funny jokes?\ Where's that joke you had for the clatter column? Send it in. The Rutgers Targum sez: \In ancient days Achilles, bold, Slew Trojans by the score, And when we meet old Rensselaer We'll fix eleven more.\ Echo from Schenectady responds: Not if we get there first, Rut. \~lith the exception of two, the fraterni- ties at Colgate have accepted the rushing rules recently proposed by the Pan- Hellenic Council of that university. SOPHOMORE'S TO BATTLE FRESH- MEN ON GRIDIRON TOMORROW. Tomorrow afternoon at three o'clock the sophomore football team ·will meet the freshman aggregation in the first of three battles. From all the dope that can be gathered concerning the two squads it seems that the contest put up will in all likelihood be quite worthy of the name of football. The sophs have about seventeen men out and have been fast rounding into shape under the efficient coaching of Phil Mallen. The sophs have some forward passes which seem to run smoothly in practice and, 1£ their interference does the work as it no doubt will, they're going to be hard to stop. Bowman of the 1918 class is coaching his class team and has done wortderful work a]ong this line. The frosh have been num- bering about twenty-five strong in prac- tice and are pretty well in s:hape for to- morrow's game. Sid Talbot and Jimmie Mudge, two Schenectady boys, are re- spectively manager and captain of their class tean1. Jin1mie has been showing some real class in practice and will no doubt prove a formidable man for the sophs to reckon with. The second game is scheduled for Octo- ber 23, and the £nal contest is to be held on election day. Strict orders for training have been issued by those in authority and it is hoped that the election day game will be quite a notable affair. Let's see the under-classmen out chee:.:-- ing for their teams tomorrow. The Senior Council at Rutgers has pro- posed a no-deal agreement to the student body. The Council hopes to cleanse politics at Rutgers by eliminating certain unfair methods of election.

. I l I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News vVeekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class ~1atter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN~CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, ·•16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager. Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. WHAT WON THE GAME? When the glad news of our victory over Wesleyan reached the Hill last Saturday night we became conscious of a supreme joy reigning within each one of us. We voiced our thoughts freely through various mediums of the noise-making type, let- ting the world know that the accolnplish·- ments of our team were highly appreciated. Dinner bells from all parts of the campus rang forth the glad news in unison with th~ chapel l;>ell, blank cartridges, drums, horns vocal chords and the like. Was there one of us who stopped and asked what won the g-an1e? Probably a few of us did, but who was able to answer? Now that a thinking space has elapsed, we are prepared to do so and this is our answer,: The game was won by the might and muscle plus the grit and -determination of every man on our team. It was won by strict training, by noble sacrifice, by hearty co-operation, by fight, by strength, by grim determination. And who is responsible for these conditions, one may ask? First of all, let us give credit to our coach. He not only knows the game and how to teach it, but he knows how to put the Hpep\ into his men; how to make then1 fight with all their strength, backed by every bit of determination which they can command. And let us not forget the mater- ial with which our coach works-men, every one of them, capable of following out his instructions to the best advantage and willing to follow his teachings thoroughly. This year above all others, co-operation in general throughout the student body has been evident. The students themselves have set new standards for our atheltic repre- sentatives, they have firmly resolved to help and encourage them in following these strict- ly. Making up their minds to make condi- tions better, they have set about it in a manner highly commendable and, so far, have continued in a course worthy of much . pratse. Let us not congratulate ourselves too soon, however; let us first put our test through a complete athletic season before patting ourselves upon the back too heartily. 'vV e have five more games to play. Five more battles to be fought to the finish and fought hard. We have that Hamilton game, the toughest of the lot perhaps, to win. 1t cannot be won by mere hoping, by over-con-

our ght . by . for put by . a 1t I I THE CONCORDIENSIS :fidence, by braggadocio, by betting, by talking or by any other means save one. It can be won by a hard, sturdy, consist- ent battle waged by every stud~nt of Union College against every evil which tends to creep in and detract one mite from the value of an athlete. Let us wage that battle fro1n now on without slackening, without falter- ing. If you've been helping that team fight, keep it up. If you haven't, start now. WITH THE MUSICAL CLUBS. Thus far all men out for the Glee Club have been kept on, but the try-outs to be held in a couple of weeks will determine the permanent membership. The first concert will be given in the third week in November and there will also be a Thanksgiving trip. The places where concerts will be held have not yet been permanently settled upon. \Garry\ reports that the club has some good voices this year and that they are doing nicely. Owing to the numerous trips taken by the club to towns and cities, covering a large area, it ranks with the athletic teams and Press Club as a means of advertising Union. For this reason every fellow who has talent should utnake\ and stick to the club as a tnatter of college spirit. Old .Union's rep- utation for good or evil rests with the stud- ents, and this is one way to show your loyalty. The Mandolin Club, which started with thirty-six men, has cut its number down to twenty-eight. The following is a list o£ members: F. L. Smith (leader), Boom- hower, Marvin, Roseberg, H. Allen, Hooper, Dikeman, Embree, Knight, Gilbert, Coleson, Brandow, Vi anna, Beckett, Y ounie, Stein, l{ing, Hoag, Brigmann, L. P. Brown, Lof- quist, Bowman, Frazer, Cameron, Jaycox and Smith. Out of this list the sextette which will play a couple of selections, are; Goggin, Hooper, Beckett, Knight, Marvin and Haag. The selections are : \White Star March,\ \After Vespers,\ \Memoirs D'Amour,'' \Spook's Frolic,\ a Maxixe (Dengozo) with \Toastmaster\ for an encore. As'in the case of the Glee Club the trips have not yet been definitely selected. THE PAJAMA PARADE. Saturday evening it became apparent to the slumbering inhabitants of Schenectady and such outlying towns within hearing distance, as rrroy, Albany and Amsterdam, that the Garnet eleven had been success-- ful against Wesleyan. The first intimations of the patriotic demonstration occurred at about 11 :15 P. 11., when an improvised band struck up the classic strains of \I Can't Get 'em Up'' and \Salvation Army,\ before the various dormitories and fraterni- ties. The crowd assembled rapid1y, white forms running across the campus in all directions to join the main body, and in short order a pajama clad column of nearly two hundred men, representing all four classes, marched to the Blue gate, stopped before Prexy's house and gave the \long yell.\ Insp1 ring tunes, from a studenes standpoint at least, were rendered :t>Y Gu!l- ning's Reserve Band, consisting of a drum, cornet, piccolo, and a couple of flutes. Blod- gett and Howenstein led the company down Union Street and across to State Street, and up back by ~ay of N ott Terrace. The march partook of the nature of a Roman triumph, from the singing, yelling and score counting which was kept up with enthu- siasm the whole way. Sleepy indeed were the Dorpians, who by the time the uparade\ disbanded at 12 o'clock, did not know that Captain Julius Starbuckus had crossed the Alps into farther Gaul with hls Garnet legion, defeated the barbarious and brought home a score of '(' to 0!

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS CAPTAIN NEWTON FEELS HOPEFUL FOR CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM. The prospects for a good cross-country team this fall are very bright. Although we have lost all but two of last year's tearn the material in the freshman class will tnore than make up the loss. The squad that is reporting daily for runs is the largest that we have had in several years, and there is more good material with which to work. It will be no small task to pick a team of five from the twelve of fourteen men who are £nishing together each day. There are, however, a few promising men who have not been reporting for the last few days. If you are one of these come out; or if yott know them get them out. There is only a little more than a week before our first meet and each ·day counts. Arrangements are being made for a run with the Hamilton College team, which will be run on October 24, before the Worcester Tech. game on the campus. We will prob- ably meet Colgate at .Hamilton later in the season and very probably the University of Vermont will send a teatn here. We have a good schedule, some excellent material, and with the support and co-operation of the student body we will have a good team. R. NEWTON, Captain. CLASSICAL CLUB HOLDS INITIAL MEETING. The Classical Club held its first meeting of the colegiate year last Tuesday evening in Washburn Hall. The meeting was one of the best attended in the. history of the club~ and indications point toward a most suc- cessful year. Dr. Kellogg read an interest- ing paper on \English Translations of th~ Classics.\ He pointed out the difference between translations which are of value to the student of the classics and those that harmed him in his studies. Coulter, the president of the club, wel- corned new members to the club and ex- plained its purpose. The regular progran1s will start at the next meeting. DUM-DUM BULLLETS--WHAT ARE THEY? This is the question which has come to us from all sides during the past few weeks. The Scientific American of October 3, an- swers this question in a seemingly very sat- isfactory tnanner. During the Chi tral campaign in India, in 1895, the native troops found that the nickel- jacketed bullets they were using were not as effective as they wished ; that is, they did not \stop\ their man. They found the dif- ficulty could be overcome by partially strip- ping off the nickel jacket and exposing the leaden head. These bullets, because they came from the Dumdum ammunition works, at Calcutta, were known as \dumdums.'' '\rhey became greatly distorted when strik- ing a soft body, spreading out into some- thing like a mushroom shape and producing a very serious wound. From this it will be noted that a dum-dun1 is merely a steel covered lead bullet with the steel jacket partically removed at and near the point. These bullets may be originally manufactured in this form but in most cases they are thus altered by privates, it is thought, without the knowledge of the superior officers. FROM ONE WHO KNOWS. A boat and a beach at a summer resort; A man and a maid and a moon; Soft and sweet nothings and then at the real Psychological tnoment a spoon. A whisper, a promise and summer is o'er And they part in hysteric despair. (But neither returns in the following June, For fear that the other is there.) -Exchange. . ' ,, 'I

to . tn if- '' k- n1 th . ~ ;1 I . ' ·-; '\ J , r ~ ' 'I ,, !'!~ ;: . ~; THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 THE FRESHMEN AND THE FACULTY .. The faculty in meeting sat in Washburn Hall at six, 'I'hey wept like anything to see Such quantities of stix. \If s~ven tutes with seven books v\T ould labor seven years, Think you these sticks would disappear?\ Asked Dutchie through his tears. ''Perhaps,\ sobbed little Johnny March, \And yet I have my fears.\ \Th' excuse committee, I advise, Should n1.eet tomorrow n une,\ Sobbed Jingle as he dashed a tear And flipped a picayune. \For looking darkly through the glass, They could devise a plan To burn these sticks, for kindling wood And pass up every man.\ \They would,\ moaned \ma \but do you Think the excuse committee cand !\ ;Then each and every tute arose To offer up a plan, And each and every one was squelched By some dissenting man. But when the room was filed with tears (i\h! my it was a sin,) Some one proposed, to ope' the doors And call the freshmen in. \Oh Spike,\ sighed Sister with a sob, \I-Iave you a safety pin?\ \Ah ! freshmen dear we love you much, We sorrow at your fate. Alas ! our love has come too soon ' C>ur tears have come too late. In all the history of the world There's never been such luck We're weeping o'er your first report, For half of you are stuck.\ Then everyone was silent, Just like the r in duck. And so in tears and sobs and sighs The faculty adjourned; The flunks could never disappear, Tht sticks could not be burned. And now from nine score frosh and six \Vho semed so safe and sound How many of them \vill be here When Christmas comes around. vV e doubt if half of these upon 'rhe \Hill\ can then be found. With profuse apologies to Carroll and the faculty. Yours truly, SKYMPZUN. CUPID AGAIN MAKES SUCCESSFUL CHARGE UPON 1915'S RANKS. The senior class of Union College and the student body in general were agreeably sur- prised at the announcement that Edwin A. Norton '15, of Derry, New Hampshire, had heen united in marriage to Miss Anna E. Frasier of Boston, Mass., by the Reverend U. H. Graves of the English Lutheran Church on September 21, 1914. Mr. and ~1rs. Norton have the best wishes of a multi tude of friends for a happy and success- ful future. Ned is an electrical engineer and a member of the Black Cat Club. FRESHMEN FABLES. Number Two. \Dear Father,\ wrote Ira after he had been gracing the Halls of Higher Learning for a few days, \college life is fine. I think the sophomores are fine. Son1e fellows don't, but if you are polite to them you're all right. They seemed to like me right away because the very first night I came here they entrusted a very important task to me. They asked me to paint the Idol. Of course I didn't know what the Idol was, but I was only too glad to be obliging. They said

i I . ! . ! ' 'i 1. \ 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS \, that it wasn't every freshman who was honored with the task of painting the Idol- it's usually done by a prof, I believe-hut I guess I'm some painter. The hardest part \\vas the head-it was so high up, but I asked a sophomore to boost me up, and finished the job in fine style. One of them was a little careless and spilled some paint in my hair by mistake, but they were nice about it and cut the paint clots out for me. They all thanked me and said the green paint was very becoming. I think it is, too. \'\fhe expenses are kind of high here at first. I paid an item of $8.00 with the tuitio:1 fee for miscellaneous expenses but that doesn't seem to cover them all. For in- stance there's the salt tax. You see the sidewalks are icy and slippery in winter and the students all chip in to buy salt to sprinkle on them. They asked me for it just after I'd registered. I only had 83 cents with me. 1:'hat isn't the usual amount they said, but seeing it was me, they guessed it would do. You see I told them I was Twigg from Cemetery. That fixed it u-p. Then I took out an option on a single space jn the freshman umbrella stand. It's best to get these things before they're all filled up. I haven't got my chapel seat yet but I can't decide '\tvhat location I want. \'I guess they can't fool me all right. Why if I hadn't been warned I would have got into an awful fight just for nothing. A fellow came around and told me about 1t though. He said that a lot of fresh fresh- men were trying to get up a scrap and that they'd probably come around and try to get me in it too. But if they did, just to laugh at them and pay no attention. I thanked him for telling me about it (he was a sophomore) and sure enough a whole crowd of freshmen came around and began talking about a Cain Rush. I didn't pay no atten- tion. I said if they wanted to raise Cain they could for all me, gosh darn it. I didn~t give a care. So they went away mad. I saw the fight, too, and it was something terrible. While I was watching a feller came round and asked me if I was out for football or what. Of course it was nice of him to ask me like that and I was real. pleased. I told him I hadn't thought about it but now that he spoke about it I guessed I might. \He sez: 'Go ahed-. they need a fullback.'' So I guess I'll go and tell President Rich- mond I'll play on his team. \Just then the sophomore who warned me about that there cain rush came by. The durn fool-he'd got in the rush himself, some how, and all his close was torn. I had to laugh at him. Then he saw me, set- ting there laughin' and he starts in to laugh too. Oh, their comical fellows, all right, all right. They can see a joke as well as anybody. \Well I better stop I guess. Tell mama I ain't going to wear those red you-knows with the long sleeves. Nobody round here seems to have any like em. My health is fine. Give my love to Susan Anne and the . ptgs. \Your Colledge Boy, ''IRA.\ PRESS CLUB. The activities of the Press Club are grad- ually being systematized, and another week will see everything running smoothly. President Mandeville and Nat Finch, the college editor, are getting things in shape, and the work of the club is on in earnest. There is a large number of new men work- ing for the club, and the year promises to be one of great success. The frosh commandments at Colgate prohibit, among other things, the wearing of corduroys, the wearing of preparatory school insignia and smoking on the streets. ,• T f

. out . real. k ,, . 1 f .1. , I set- as . iS the , the rk- to ate tn ! ,• < i ;) .I I \i .· ,'} J: :l THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 FRATERNITY PLEDGES. The different fraternities have announced the following pledges of members of the freshman class. Kappa Alpha:-· John D. Brown, Ne\v Rochelle; Prescott Brown, Mount Kisco ; I-Ienry Clark, Williamsport, Pa.; Raymond Glenn, Scotia; Frederick Bascom, Fort Edward. Sigma Phi :-Pierre Hoag, Schenectady; Edward Hawley, Harold Hawley, Water- ford; Townsend Birdsall, Albany; Donald Waugh, Theresa; Carl Dell, Milwaukee, Wis. ; Julian Strothers, Edgefield, S. C. Delta Phi :-James J. Welch, Jr.,. Sara- toga Springs; Beverly Vosburgh, Johns- town, N. Y.; Joseph Powell, Lake Provid- ence, I-~a. ; Jarvis G. Dowd, East Berlin, Conn.; Hunter A. Towne, Duluth, Mich.; John J. Beattie, Salem, N. Y.; Edward Cameron, Albany, N. Y.; Philip Dorion, Troy, N.Y. Psi Upsilon :-Clarence Bull, 1917, Man- aroneck; Harold Hyatt, Jamica; John Ma- cauly, Rochester; Albert DuBois, Catskill; Harold Cook, Auburn; Benj. L. Botsford, Plattsburg; Chandler Knight and Sidney Talbot, Schenectady. Delta Upsilon :-J. N. Aken, Philmont; Herbert C. Blake, Troy; Almond C. Brock- \vay Richfield Springs; . Arlyn M. Collins; Little Falls; David Gardenier, Chatham; Julian F. Gilmour, White Plains; William L. J(ennedy, Jr., New York City; Floyd E& Reeves, Watertown. Chi Psi :-Edwin Y ordon, Fort Plain; Guy Becket, Omaha, Neb.; James Hulshiz- er, Bernardsvile, N. J.; Clyde Heatly and John Younie, Schenectady. Alpha Delta Phi :-Porter Fisher, Buf- falo ; Theodore Palmer, Syracuse ; Gibson Carey, Robert Faust and Morris Hale, Schenectady; C. Calvin Bowman, Jr., Pitts- ton, Pa.; Bernadotte P. Lester and Spencer B. Eddy, Saratoga Springs. Beta Theta Pi :-J. L. Akins, Lisbon; Harry R. Calkins, Cohoes ; G. L. Frisbie, F!amburg; Earl L. Newell, East Aurora; Leroy Bailey, Ballston Lake; James D. Mc- Nab, Troy; James }{fudge, Schenectady. Phi Delta Theta has not yet announced its pledges. Phi Gan1ma Delta :-William Mac Leary and Leonard Frasier, An1sterdam; G. 0. Gil- man, Ballston; Walter Rockwell, Horse- heads; M. E. Osterhout, Newburgh; Roy Schuyler, Pattersonville. Pyramid Club :-. Charles Miller, Amster- dam ; Dean Chappeau, Ticonderoga; Harry Hallenbeck, Fort Plain; Kenneth Stillman, Argyle. Delta .....-Theta Phi :-Harold Matterson, South Berlin; Traver McKenna, Albany. Zeta Beta Tau :-Arthur Swartz, Albany; Irwin Alpert, Elmira; Alwyn G. Levy, Ne-\\7 York City; Lewis Anker, Albany. OF THE TWO EVILS . When \Tubby\ Martin was a little boy (this was a long time ago fellows) he turn- ed a corner one day while going full speed on his bicycle and collided with the min- ister. \Where are you running to, \IDY little man ?\ asked the parson after he regained his composure. \Home !\ panted Austin, tlma's going to spank me.\ \What's the hurry then, are you anxious to have your mother spank you?\ \No shouted \Tubby as he hopped on the wheel, 11 hut if I don't get there be- fore pa, he'll do it!\ Pretty clev-ah, eh ? JOIN THE Y. M. C. A. Editor's Note: The communication be· low is the expression of the feelings of an individual, and the Concordiensis Board

I . I ! . t I 20 THE C-ON·CORDIENSIS is not responsible for the sentiments ex- pressed therein. Discussions on the other ·side of this question will be published fully by us upon request. A Communication .. It is a fact of psychology that the human individual inherently desires to count him- self part of an organized, concentrated, specialized whole. The species is gregar- ious. Everybody admits that. Men from earliest times banded together in groups. Not only that, but smaller groups readily attached themselves to larger, stronger groups. For further information on the subject be referred to Dr. Kellogg on the Allemani or to the Dean on the Visigoths and the Ostrogoths. This fact accounts for a number of cir- cumstances in history. It accounts today for a number more. Among these circum- stances may be mentioned Tammany Hall, the t:rweed ring, the Sullivan family of Fourteenth Street, the Holy Roman Em- pire, the high cost of living, and the Union College Y. M. C. A. All these \circumstances\ are organized units of strength composed of atoms desir- ing the same and working together as a single machine for it. We have seen the rise of the Sullivan family. Brotherly love, plus community organization achieved wonders. Power was increased by con- glomeration. 11 ln union there is strength\ says the poet; \United we stand, divided we fall,\ said Epictetus. Not only that, but the matter is cumulative; and not only cumulative but ambitious; not only am- bitious but masterful; finally, the end al- ways justifies the means. The Sullivan family with its various branches ruled all that part of New York City where the men smoke their pipes up- side down. Later this same family had an infinite an1ount to say as to the govern- ment of this state and the United States. The O'Sullivan and his cousins, first and second, got results. Early in New York's history a group of people banded together for a cause. They builded them a graven image in the shape of a striped tiger. These Trojans of a newer, more efficient day crept within it~ velvet self, and the tiger insinuated him- self lithely, gently into the city. Gradually he scaled the wall of Wall Street itself which was then the holy of holies of that city, and sat him down in the Street. Then all those people, brotherly banded together in the warmth of the tiger's insides, got busy. And they got results. Today that tiger leaps from Manhattan to Albany :lt a single bound with all those brotherly Trojans on his back, and sometimes he goes to Washington. \!Vhen he lies down with his head in Flatbush, his tail wags serenely in Yonkers. Results ! Results! Results ! Look at the Holy Roman Empire, look at the N. Y. C. & H. R. R.! Look at ants, look at Niagara Falls. Results! Results ! Brotherly love, labor for your neighbor, but the greatest of these is organization. For nineteen years Union has been allied with the International Y. M. C. A. move- ment. During the last few years our as- sociation has been a vital part of Union life, and has grown in its influence until it now occupies a very important place in student life. The first purpose of the Christian Association is to cultivate the best in every Union man by developing strong Christian character. On its mem- b~rship roll are found the names of the strongest men in Union. The association has been the means of greatly helping many Union students and has aided in making college life more helpful to the entire under- graduate body. That is absolutely the truth. Nothing could be truer; we say it in all seriousness and respect. \On its men1bership roll are found the names of the strongest men in Union.\ 1~hat also is the very truth. Now, to you freshmen, to you sophomores, to you juniors, to you seniors (if, alas, not ' ! .

of hey a it~ . . self got :lt 1 . at but as- . it 4 l ' J ·' j ' ( \ .. lll ', •' ',;; '' •Lj} . '_,· '' .. . :·:; ' :!l ' . - ~:· :\:- ' ' ', ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 too late!), we can say but one thing. vVould you be among Union's strongest men? W auld you occupy a very important place in colege life? Do you admire effic- iency? Strength? Results? If so we can not say it too strongly, too emphatically, too sincerely- Join the Y. M. C. A. WITH THE Y. M. C. A. Rev. C. B. Magill was the speaker at the vesper services held in the chapel last Sun- day afternoon. His subject was \Live While You Live\ and he brought home to the few students who were there a realiza- tion of the great amount of influence for good or evil that a college man has over his community, in college and in after life. KAPPAS DEFEAT DELTS. The Delta Phi eleven fell to defeat before the Kappa Alphas on the Alexander Field Saturday afternoon, to the tune of 6 to 0. The game was called at 2 :00 o'clock by Referee B. Page. The Kappas succeeded in defeating the Delts through a forward pass from N aylon to Colson, the latter of whom crawled over the line to the goal. Although the Kappas played a defensive game the Delts only reached their 10-yard line once. Colson was the Kap. star, while Towne starred for the Delts. The titne of the quarters was eight minutes. HONOR COURT ORGANIZED . The Honor Court, consisting of represent- atives from each fraternity and from the neutral body, has organized for the coming year. The officers are Donald A. Coulter '15, president; and Howard B. Santee '16, secretary-treasurer. The scope of the Honor Court is this year widened by the passing of the no-deal agreement which comes under its jurisdiction. THE SEASON THUS FAR. St. Lawrence, 0 ; Union, 15. Hobart, 3; Union, 7 . \V esleyan, 0; Union, 7. Oct. 1 \/-Stevens at Hoboken . Oct. 24--Worcester Tech. on Compus . Oct. 31-Rensselaer at Troy . Nov. 7.-N. Y. U. on campus. Nov. 14.-Hamilton on campus. SOME OF SATURDAY'S SCORES. New Hampshire College, 2; Worcester Tech, 0. St. Lawrence, 7; Hobart, 0. Stevens, 13; Johns Hopkins, 16. N. Y. U ., 26; Hamilton, 0. Rensselaer, 21; Middlebury, 7 . FRESHMEN GREETINGS. Old Union, in thy calm and peace! Young strangers all, we greet thee! Thou, loveliest of Beauty's daughters, Sweet simplicity. A greeting to thy verdant fields, Thy ivy-robed walls, Thy sun-kissed walks and laughing brooks, The learned minds that rule thee. .L~ greeting to thy sacred shades, Those spots within thy garden, Where on a gay, remoter day Some vanished foot hath often trod; A greeting to thy chapel bells That sound their aged rhyme; A greeting to thy time-worn gates; Thine old bedaubed pagoda, 1\\hat relic of rare memories, Grim god of lasting friendship. * * * * * * * Old Union, in thy calm and peace! Young strangers all, we greet thee! -Wm. Mallia, '18.

If you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. Ask any college or high school man in the Capitol District, what clothes meas- ure up to his ideals in styles. Ask any discriminating dresser what clothes best meet his ideas of refined taste. The answer will invariably be \STEE.FEL QUALITY CLOTHES\ Add to the above, unusual values and you have the rea- son for the wonderful popularity of Steefel Clothes. Fall Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. N·OTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ V AUD·EVILLE-PHOTOPLA YS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to S Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN! .. Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan s t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PAnON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Brtdce.

I I ' ·\;- i ., _, { ,,~ l \ '\ ~ 1 i i ! More College· IN THE Read It Every Day News GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN . Beautiful College Pennants Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each '1 in. x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kind's. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ N~EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. t'b:ere is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Steim-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman :s11its and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full • Dress Acceessories Arrow CoHars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 St~te Street Telephone 91-W The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at . the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, THE BARB.ER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 .Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College :Boys.

l I . I ' ! . '· I i I . ! I i . l ' I I ~­ \Bull\ Durham an International Favorite Men prominent in the social, business and public life of many nations find supreme tobacco satisfaction in the deliciously fresh, mild cigarettes of unique flavor they roll for themselves, to their individual lik- ing, from \Bull\ Durham tobacco. Theirdistinguished example has made it correct, smart, fashionable to \Roll Your Own\ upon every occasion •. GENUINE: \BUL( DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO There is no purer, milder tobacco in the world than \Bull\ Durham-none other with such a sweet, mel- low, irresistible fragrance. This rare, balmy aroma is as delicate and elusive as it is distinctive and pleasing, and can only be retained and en- ' joyed in the fresh .. rolled cigarette. C::k ~c;,.~~p~! .. \Bull\ Durham hand ... made cigar- with eac:h Sc: •ack .AII'Si'~ ettes afford wholesome enjoyment and lasting satisfaction to more mil- lions of men than all other high- grade smoking tobaccos combined. FREE An illustrated booklet, show- ing how to \Roll Your Own 1 Cigarettes and a Book of cigarette papers, will both he mailed to you free, on postal request. Address \Bull 1 Durham, Dur- ham, N.C., Room 1298. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY lllliJill1111llllltiiiiHIIIIIIIIIDUIDIIIIUHIIIIIIIIIIIIIUliiiOHIIIIIIUIIIIUJWOIDUIIIIIIIIIIItlllllll1llllllllllllllllllll

., ' ' ',· ·' ·, . f Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS .. O!ILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A. R. Zita • s Orchestra Wh·en the leaves Begin to fall Walk-Over Shoes Are Best of all. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union CnlJege 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, '10, ·11, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the \Vorld H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 167 H Jt St AJb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert · ICe BD es., · · 8 IDI OD . , any TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All Ia test Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- · tions a specialty. Music furnished if desireJ. Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles· HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 126 State Street Eyes Tested and G1A18eB Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

I ; I . I l. i : ' j ! ; . ! ; . I : \ I \ . ! I I ' I . I j' Portraits ~~ Your Inspection of our Product Cordially Invited THe STVDIO Opa OVER PATTON S. HALL The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. just Right THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN $4.50 TO $7.00 Metropolitan Styles ,tlfi) Expert Fittings Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing Colle~e Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & liberty St Sc~enectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear F eft Shoes fit pertectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 154 BARREIT ST., near State Meala, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best of things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street '. \. '

Y. M. of nd ' \ I.·. '~ ' - L:> '\· ' ; Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL EN'TERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938.. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. United Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. H. J. SCHWARTZ, Manager .. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. . IN A HURRY WHEN IT RAINS . . OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP QUALITY LAUNDRY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACTION combined makes clear the reason why SPALD- ING'S are outfitters to champions whose im- plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. A G Spaulding & Bros 126-128 Nast1au Street • • • 520 5th Ave., New Yor~ Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, •'On your way to the Post Office\

Good Clothes SAY MEN: Y/ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and yo~ know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells I the right kind, and naturallr IllUSt sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little we ~hink you'll like us and our way of doing business. The ColleQe Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press 1 '' ~ .· .',.~j ' ·~' ~ .. : { ',:;<'! ·' · . . ' ... '~ . ': ~~ ' f

VOL. 38 THE PVBLISHED·WEEKL Y BY· THE STVDE NTS • OF· VNI ON- C OLL EG E OCTOBER 22nd, 1914 NO.3

!< \ j l I ( I t l i t f l l I· l l' ! ; i I i. ,,. ' ~: 'I > f, I I ,. t I \ ' 1 l i ! ( ' I . \ ! I i I I I I l I I I I ! I, I ! ' l I I l . I I ( I i I, ! I I I ! i i l I 1 I ' \ ' I I I l ! j l I I l ' i ' I ' ' f I I l i i ! i l 1 I ·, l l I ' ! I I I i ! I I ! I I I I, 'I ! ! li J I \ l i . I '' 1 I 1 ! I I I I. j l i I ! t: \ i, I ! I ::I 1: I ~ I UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate : and graduate courses: 1.. Ceur\'es leading to the degree o:f A. B. CLASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- . mission to this course. French and German are in- clHded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CoURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is .prerequisite. 2. Course leading to tbe degree of Ph. IJ. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- 1ional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the ::;tudy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course lea(Jing to the degree of B. E. G:~tNF.RAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- rnen tal principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and mod ern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Er ... ECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is i11tended to give a broad and thorough engineering -education with the special instruction requisite for ·elecetrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This C<>urse of one year of graduate study consists of 1ectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE oF M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of :lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE I,EADING TO DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for ad·mis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y G DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, ]. NEW'l'ON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full in formation, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuES'l'ED, Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Exsm•\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

of course admis- N. YG E by prac- Y. RO, Dean. of state to its B. is fee, Y. seven ess: Y. It ',,··/ ·.!·.:: . ·, '' :- ... · TRADE. MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All atyles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. THE CAIN'S Leading teachers in Modern Dancing. Pupils received every Monday, Wednes- day and Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Private lessons by appointment. At Arcade Hall, near N. Y. C. Depot. All the New Dances taught properly, thorough· ly and systematically. The Cains have made a special study of modern dancing with society's foremost designers of Atlantic City, New York and Chicago. TELEPHONE 1920 Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bag~ and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

;;: ' ' j· l .. •:. I d !I '· ·.I 1. ~ ,. ~ ' ' I ' I I i I ! : I: I ' j I ' ' I ; \ I l , • I ' \ ! l ' I I I l I , I I j l ) I \ ! I I I I ; l'. ., I . i I : l ' I ! l I I 1 ' I I l : ' l ! l : l : ~ ; . ' ; f f I I I /I \I II ll . II . l! . 11 ! \I : ' tl I !I \ p \ d l l : I j 1 I 1 I I ! . I l ( 1\ l I I ; j : ! ' I ~ ! BABBJT·T & CO'S. FALL AND WINTER DISPLAY OF America's Most Famous Make ROGERS- PEET CO. Is full of the strongest kind of attractions for every man who is keen for clothes whose equal can only be found in highest price Custom- Taitor Shops. The last word in select fabrics, ex~l usi ve tailoring and up-to-the-hour correct styles will be found in this exceptionally strong line. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY OF Rollers-Peet Co's. Dress Clothes In our Dress Clothes Department will be found all the latest and best ideas in smart Day and Evening Dress for men. This Department is a revelation to many men who have visited it and found therein the highest type of Dress Clothes possible to produce,-garments which in fit, fashion and quality the most expensive of custom made clothes can not improve upon at double the price. Babbl • tt & Co \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ . • 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are _not living in the stage-coach decade, at wh1ch time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think. of traveling as one did in by-gone days. N etther would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the ol~ s!yle. hand method way, if Y?U knew the sup~nonty tn our up-to-date machtne way of repatring. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street OppositP. Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawin.t Inks I Eternal Writin.t Ink En.troasin.t Ink I Taurine Mucila.te \\I Photo Mounter Paato Drawina! Board Paate I Liquid Paate l Office Paste Vea!etable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 3 I Steuben Street,

a t, 0 • '> ; ~ . '\).· . ':~~ ;·, ' ,.,, ·''' ·! i i • The Men Who Put The F~n Into Your Daily Life W ITS well sharpened and minds in good. humor. The man who has these generally knows what he is talking about. Read the testimoni- als on this page. Here are some of the greatest cartoonists in the coun- try. They all smoke and endorse The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette They wouldn't smoke Tuxedo if it didn't keep their minds alert and cheerful all day long, day in and day out. A tobacco that can do that stands in a class by itself. ~ Tuxedo is made of the very high- est grade of choice, mellow, sweet Kentucky Burley leaf-treated by the original \Tuxedo Process,'' which removes the sting so that it cannot bite your tongue- granulat- ed so that it smokes freely and uni- formly-packed 40 pipefuls to the lOc tin. T. A. DORGAN (\Tad'') '' Tuxedoca.I'f be equaled in soothing, ref r .shing quali- ties. Its mildness insures a pleasant smoke, its coolness removes all chance of tongue '-'t ,, ' or e. R.L.GOLOBERG creator of \Foolish Ques- tions,\ \I'm the Guy\ ''I find in Tuxedo a good tobacco. Its fragrance and Jlavor are fine. I use it re- gularly and endorse it highly · to all my friends. ' 11 ,(-/.~ Tuxedo deserves everything that has ever been said of it-and to prove . it Tuxedo sells by the millions upon millt.onJ of tins annually. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE ConYenient pouch j s· Famous green tin, 1 0 in'!er•lined with C- with gold l.ettering, . C moisture-proof paper curved to f1t pocket In Glass Humidors, SOc and 90c FREE . Send us 2 cents in stamps for po~t­ age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1299 Ill Fifth Avenue New York BUD FISHER creator of \Mutt and Jeff.'' ''Tuxedo has made a pipe my favorite form of smoking. Its coolneu and mildnestl mak.e pipe smoking a real pleasure. ' 11 ~-r~

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note theae Prices: Shirts all Kinds ..................... lOc Co liars .................•......•....•.•• 2c Union Suits . . . . . . . .•............... lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas . . . . ........... 6c each Hose . . . . . . . . . . ..•.......... 3c per pair Handkerchiefs ......................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Maker• of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraitiea frOm the Atlantic to the Pacific. Claaa contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street FRES.HMEN Follow your upper Class Men. They use MAZDA LAMPS. Your efficiency will be increased by study- ing under this high effic- iency light. ••• ttl SCHENECTADY ILLUMINATING CO. 511 State St. 'Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art &tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. I •tll(..IJ , ..,, TW L,XH ( I)Nl'f\;.. Y Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPA-NY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. I t'.

I. 0 e I ·':'·\· Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. (J' Wells & Coverly TROY 1 ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' ' < ( m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS • Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Alban·y, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top . notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2326- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. FeriJ Street CreameiJ 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

l Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES . Comparison is the Lever That Turns , Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN ''----·-----' This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our. offerings and dealings.. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours. for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N. Y. Phone 1270- W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: J\1 en's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I..,adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c l\1en's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________________ ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 WHITE, 229 State Street CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Collelle Repre•entative 1915 ROW TANGO SHIRTS are an evening dress .. . necessity. The bosoms are tucked, puffed, plea- ted or ''mushroom.\ $2.00 and up Cluett, Peabody& Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave.

r. The Concordiensis VOL. 38 OCTOBER 22, 1914 NO.3 - UNION DEFEATS STEVENS TECH. Latter Put Up Strong Defence. In the last minute of play with the score 'I to 6 in favor of Stevens Captain \Pete\ Starbuck gathered in a long pass from Beav- er and romped across the goal for the touch- down that won the game. And the con- siderable crowd of .Union grads which sa·,.;v the contest at Castle Point Field, Hoboken, last Saturday came away with the impres- sion that they had seen a real team play. A bit over-confident at first, remem- bering the 40 to 7 victory of last season, the Garnet soon realized that the Stevens de- fense was no joke and at the end of the first half awoke to the fact that they had suc- ceeded not at all in making headway against the stubborn Stevens line. Then in the third quarter Union showed some of the football which has made her so successful this sea- son. Shifty attack, volcanic line-plunging, fast open work, and long forward passes marked the second half of the game. But even this clever work was not enough to overwhelm the Hoboken line and it was only by the grimest determination and fighting spirit that the game was won. On defense Union showed none of the stonewall qualities which have marked previous games. In fact as often as not it was Union's secondary defense which stopped the Crimson backs. In the first half Union played on the of- fensive to a considerable extent and several times seemed on the verge o£ scoring. But each time-for instance once when Howell intercepted a long forward pass by very fast work and once when Stevens hurried Rosecran's attempt for field goal-the Ho- boken defense put up sterling work and pre- served their goal intact. The first half de- veloped into a kicking contest, Todd and Gir ling getting about an even break in re- sults. Stevens played little but defensive ball in the first half. In the third quarter the punting duel continued but finally Beaver changed his tactics. Here for the first time the Stevens line wavered and by plunges, wide end runs, and forward passes the Garnet worked down to the thirty yard line. Here Union's spectacular forward pass formation work- ed satisfactorily for the first time. Beaver dodged for time till the Hoboken goal was lined with waiting Garnet players, then hurtled the pigskin swift and true to Girl- . 1ng. On the goal kick the \dope\ went astray. Shortly after commenced an attack by Stevens which reminded beholders of the game with Stevens last year. Tricky triple passes, formidable line-bucking, successful forward passes, and clever interference worked the ball to Unions goal line where Poole plunged through for a touchdown. Todd kicked the goal. Stevens was wild with joy for it looked like a victory.

' I I t ! I i . I I , I l I I I ! . I I I ! I 10 THE CONCORDIENSilS The fourth quarter was the most thrill- ing of the game. Almost from the outset Union took the offensive. Beaver found a spot outside tackle where Hoboken seemed vulnerable. Jamming fiercely time after time Union secured several first downs. Then with the ball on five yard line and a goal imminent Stevens held. Four times Beaver called for a plunge, and each tin1e the ball crept closer and closer the goal. On the fourth down when the scrimn1age was over, the distance had to be measured on the line and it was found that Union had failed by four inches to gain a first down. It was Stevens ball and the work had to be done all over again. Todd kick- ed to the foul line in the middle of the field and again TJ nion began her advance. After scoring a first down, at the 30 yard line, Beaver changed his tactics. Three times standing in the same spot he hurled forward passes. Each time the ball sailed to the Stevens goal, but each time the eager arms of a Garnet player were not there to catch it. On the fourth down Beaver called for a field goal, but the ball was wide by inches. Now it was Stevens' ball on the twenty yard line. And here came the play which made victory possible. A play was called for off right tackle. When the scrimmage abated, the ball was snugly in the arms of \Pete\ Starbuck. A moment later \Pete\ cottoned to a short forward pass and trotted across the line. Girling kicked the goal-and there was one minute to play. \Just time enough for another goal,\ Fred Dawson re- marked. The line-up follows: UNION (13) STEVENS INST. (7) Downs -------------------------- Howell left end. Jackson ------------------------ Stretch left tackle Jenkins --------------------------- Oldis left guard Hokerk ---------~-----·-------- Graydon center Price ---------·---------------------.-. Moeller right guard. Wood .... ,.... _________________________ Middleton right tackle Cleveland ----------------·------- Hoinkus right end. Beaver ---------------·---------- Anderson quarterback Rosecrans ------------------------- Todd left halfback Girling -------------------------- Webb right halfback McNabb --------------------------- Hill fullback Touchdowns-Poole, Starbuck, Girling. Goals from touchdown-Girling, Todd. Sub- stitutes-Union: Starbuck for Cleveland, Houghton for Beaver, Roof for MeN abb, Moynahan for Girling. Stevens: Marshall for Hinkus, Paul for Stretch, Poole for \V ebb. Referee-Beavers, West Point. Umpire-Olcott, Yale. Linesman-Saun- ders, Columbia. Time of periods-. Ten and eleven minutes. PYRAMID CLUB SMOKER. The Pyramid Club held a smoker in their rooms on Wednesday evening last. A mu- sical program was rendered and refresh- ments were served consisting of \fruit in season\-that is chestnuts, apples, cider and doughnuts. FRESHMAN FABLES. Number 3. \Dear Mother,\ wrote Ira after his third week at college. \College is fine, but I was awful cold till they turned the heat on in the college here. The heat is fine but the heat- ers is something fierce. One of the fellows lives in the dormitories and he can't sleep nights because the water drips down from upstairs all the time; and the fellow up- stairs can't sleep nights because if he does ·~£!). \'!' ' ' 9 ' '\ ' :~

on ler on :us on dd bb jll tg. lb- td, )b, all or lt. n- tld .. ~1r u- h- . 1n er rd as 1e t- vs ~p m )- ~s \ .. 9 ' '\ ' :~ \ ., 1\· II ' ;;, \ I I :'i \;. ~ I i)j ll i i~ i • \ THE CONCORDIEN;SIS 11 turn the heat on the water drips all over the fellow downstairs and if he doesn't turn the heat on it's so cold he can't sleep anyhow.. So what\s a fellow going to do? \You know I told you before that I liked the sophomores. Well I don't any more. There must he a course here in masseusing and tonsorial work because all the sophs elect to cut hair. 'They don't cut upper- classnlen's hair because they (the upper- classmen) say they are getting so old that their hair is ge}ting thin on top, and so they ask the so phs please not cut their hair. So all the hair thev can cut is freshn1an hair, -' and they like to do that~ \But a ·little while ago they got shown up alright, alright. They tried to cut· one too many hair and it broke the camel's back. (I remember all about the story of Jonah and the camel's back.) Well, rna, the sophs tried to cut my friend Rudy's hair one morning. Well, Rudy said he didn't care because he was a hard working fellow and didn't have time to get his hair cut and any- how he was trying to boycott the barbers. But there's a gang of fellows here that call themselves the Terrascottas because they're dignified and seniors; and they wanted to know if the sophomores were running the college and the sophs said no they were try- ing to stop it from running the way it was. So they wouldn't let them cut Rudy's hair. Rudy he was sorry because they didn't fin- ish the job and he had to go to the bar- bers anyway. He said the Terrascottas might have waited till the sophs got through and then stopped them, like Dutch Naumann used to say. But anyway the Terrascottas said they wanted to show the sophs who were run- ning this college. Well the sophs admitted they weren't but thought the faculty and President Richmond might have something to do with it. \Well said Heinie, \the faculty and President Richmond never stopped anybody from cutting anybody's hair, did they?\ \That settled it. Even the rest of the Terrascottas admitted it. \Well I can't think of anything more to say. It's getting so cold that I guess you better send those red you-knows, because I don't care whether anybody else doesn't wear them-· I hate to freeze. \Your college boy, \IRA.\ :SOPHOMORES DOWN FRESHMEN. 'rhe first of the series of under-class foot- ball games took place last Friday and re- sulted in a victory for the sophomores by the score of 6 to 0. The field was very soggy, and, in addition, a steady down-pour of rain made playing slow. The teams were very evenly matched in spite of the fact that the freshmen were slightly outweighed. Both teams ha:d been practicing consistent- ly, and the playing was much better than has been seen in previous years. The sophomores started off with a rush. After several good gains had been made by end runs by Miller and by a forward pass, the ball was worked to within a few yards of the freshman goal. A moment later Haubner crossed the line for the only score of the game. The attempt to kick the goal failed. There were few other opportunities to score. In the third period the sophomores again worked the ball down the field only to lose it a few yards from their opponent's goal, and in the last period the freshmen were within a few yards of scoring but lost the ball on a muff. N aylon, Mann, Haub- ner, and Miller starred for 1917,while Mudge, Collins, Brown and Taylor did good work for 1918. This game gives 1917 a lead of 25 points on the total score. It is a singular coin- cidence that neither class will benefit by the points allowed for representatives on the varsity squad, each class having eight such men. The next game is to be played on Alexander Field on Friday, October 23rd. I

I I I I : .t . I 12 THE CONCORDlENSIS ON TO TN.O'Y. 'Twas thirty-two and nothirtg in your Rut- gers game we hear, ·But you'll wish you were at Rutgers when you see us, Rensselaer, P or we'U sweep you irom creation, like we blow the troth from beer ·when you hear our men advancing and our rolling, ripping cheer: uon to Troy!'' i\s the Greeks before Hissarlik, made £or Priam's sons a grave, So we'll take another Troy with our Garnet Argives, brave And we'll cheer with lusty voices, her you vainly tried to save As we bear your pig-skin Helen o'er your goal line as a slave, \On to Troy!'' \iVith the deeds o£ Agamemnon, Starbuck shall repeat the story As he heaps the field of battle with your warriors, slain and gory And we'll nail our gleaming armor as a token of our glory-· Nail it up with shouts o£ triumph, on your ancient gates and hoary. \On to Troy!\ We've wedge an:d mass formations that your very walls shall sever And we work our forward passes in away exceeding clever, Though you seek your sacred seers, R. P. L you'll guess it never For we'll win a mig~ty triumph, when we spring the newest ever. \On to Troy !\ R. E. T., '16. THE CENTENNIAL. In an old print shop in Paris in the year 1890 an American tourist discovered a large drawing of a scene that, in its main aspects, was familiar to him. It bore the date 1813 and the inscription ''College de l'Union a Schenectady, Etat de New York\ and proved to be the original plan for the buiJrd ... ings and grounds for the tourist's own alna mater. Through revolutions and sieges, while Paris starved and fought, these plans, although uncared for, had been preserve{{ and they are now safely placed among the archives o£ Union College. The first o£ the buildings erected under these plans were occupied in the faH of 1814, when the college moved from the large stdne building on College and Union Streets to its present site. In com- memoration o£ the erection o£ North and South Colleges, the third stage o£ the col .. lege's remarkable growth as an institutiort of learning, the centennial celebration was held last Saturday with :fitting exercises in the gymnasimu. Alumni, New York state's leading educators, presidents of numerous universities and colleges and \Sons of Old Union\ were present to ob .. serve the one hundredth anniversary of the two buildings which Ramee planned. The academic procession was formed in double file at the chapel with the freshmen first, followed by the sophomore, junior and sen· ior classes, the alumni, honorary guests, trustees and Governor Martin A. Glynn and President C. A. Richmond. At the entrance to the gymnasium the procession parte.d and Governor Glynn and President Rich-- mond, followed by the rest o£ the proces ... sion in reversed order, entered the build ... • tng. Dr . . l\. V. V. Raymond offered the open ... ing prayer which was preceded by a hynn. President Richmond then introduced Dr. George Alexander, of New York City, who gave the historical address of the exercises. Dr. Alexander said in part: \Our president has already pointed out that for one-hal£ a century I have kept close to Alma Mater a great deal and know mttch I.:.· i: I·· '·I h r

a ... na ns, of .. of .. nd ut I.:.· \ )i .. .. ,,,_.:·-:. ',:! (: \ -' THE CONCO'RDIENSIS 13 of her. I have known personally all the presidents who have shaped her destinies for the last 110 years. We do not commem- orate the birth of an institution of learning, but we come to a time when our academic career of 19 summers, since which there has been a hundred generations of her sons . \The most that I can hope to do is to men- tion a few of the principles which have shaped the life of the college. Two prin- ciples were impressed upon our college from the beginning. The first is that which called the college into being. Rather unique is the fact that 15 years before this institution was given the name of Union, a ·dozen citizens of three surrounding counties of the north- eastern part of New York state, while yet en- gaged in the stress of the Revolutionary \var, petitioned the legislature to authorize a college in the town of Schenectady. Legis- latures are not always responsive to the petitions of well intending citizens. If the legislature of 1780 had adopted the report of its committee and granted the J?etition to those good citizens, the college would have been passed probably upon the decision of the council of Dorp. Union College came 15 years afterward. It inherited the spirit of the times of William the Silent and the right of eminent domain. In order to guard against the ecclesiastical influence, the con· stitution stated that a majority of the trus· tees could never be of one sect. In this re· spect Union College led the way of all others. Union College has never departed from this principle. We have had our dif- ferences, but never has there arisen the ques~ tion of religion. Here Episcopalians, Bap- tists, Presbyterians, Roman Catholics have met and mingled with equal appreciation of each others' convictions. \The motto of the college has been real- ized and exemplified. At this time the early years of the French revolution, when the fruits of science are engaged in destruction, yet come it may and come it will for all that man, to man, throughout the world will brothers be for all that. These principles to which I have referred were incorporated in the great president of Union CoHege, Dr. N ott. He came to a college of some 50 students and the building erected only 12 years earlier, was quite ample for their needs. But scarcely was he seated in his presidential chair but he be- gan to move things. He bought 250 acres of forest and moved away from quiet Dorp. The college of 1814 is essen- tially the college of 1914. Students then watched the sun sink behind the hills as they do now, saw the great gap in the Ap- palachian mountains through which poured the making of an empire. Dr. N ott's great expectations were not disappointed. Within ten years the college over which he pre- sided had been increased by the number o£ students way beyond coleges of New Eng- land that had been founded nearly a century earlier. \This rapid development was entirely due to the faculties of the great president. He \vas not by any means invulnerable. Like most great men, he had the defects of his qualities, his astuteness somethnes took the form of indiscretion and his ethical pre- cepts were sometimes a little warped by the exigencies of his great enter-· prise. Dr. Nott was an innovation, he broke away from the sterotype of the eighteenth century, he was the first among American educators to put in- struction in science, and later engineering subjects,on a par with instruction of classics. Knowing the pride of youth for excellence in accomplishments, he founded .the Alpha of New York of Phi Keta Kappa. I do not want to invade the shrines of Kappa Alpha, the first college Greek letter secret society, but to go back to the Romulus and Remus of it, I have discovered that three students of this early period thereby started the great system of societies all over our land which ,

- I I I I , I 14 THE GONCORDIENS.JS makes it possible for young men to go out into the world with certain bonds to others that has had tremendous effect on our col- lege life today. In Dr. Nott's day we are passing from a mona~chial regime and its in- fluence was felt in strict upbringing in home, school and church. \Dr. Nott was credited with taking in in-- corrigibles, but he has well withstood the jibes of those long since forgotten. Of Dr. N ott's dealings with his students, I'll give an illustrative example: Into the august presence of the president is summoned a sophomore: 'My son, why have you absent- ed yourself from Greek recitation for a fort- \\tlight ?' 'Because the tutor requires me to apologize for refusing to recite.' 'Well, my son, why do you not apologize?' 'Because . the tutor was unfair to the class and unfair to me and I thought he should apologize first.' 'If the tutor apologizes would you then apologize to him?' 'Certainly, I know that I was wrong.' \Well then, if I should apolo- gize to you for the tutor, would you apolo- gize to me for him?' The apologies were in- terchanged and the student went back to his class. \A student had disagreed with his father and left college. When reduced to his last sixpence this lad of 17 years became the principal of an academy in a southern state. A prospectus was put in the local newspap- ers and in the course of a few weeks a letter came to the board. 'Your academic principal is my son who has absconded from Union College, causing to his parents grief and shame and I give notice to you and to all whom it may concern- that he who harbors the delinquent, I will prosecute him under the law.' Nevertheless Dr. N ott received the boy, cared for him, graduated him with honor, inspired hitn to better services, as the governor of New York state, senator of the United States, secretary of state during the terrible Civil War. It was William H. Seward. ''Another student gbes to Albany and spends all his money in drink and runs up tavern bills. Even Dr. N ott could not make a scholar out of such material. This roaming sad youth wrote, 'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, be it ever so humble, there's no place like home.' Dr. N ott was a n1ender of boys and maker of men. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the stress of the Civil War, men whom he had brought up beside him occupied positions of respon- sibility on every hand. Union men of this man's time became presidents of many in- stitutions such as Brown, Princeton, Uni- versity of l\1ichigan, Western University, Trinity, New York University, Knox Col- lege, Rutgers, Vassar and Smith. In the critical years, the most critical years in the struggle for the Union, Abraham Lincoln summoned to his aid a Union man to take charge of the affairs of state of the republic, and another, John Bigelow, to prevent Euro- pean intervention. \We cannot leave the fact that this period of rapid growth and prosperity was follow- ed by a period of decline. When other younger institutions forged ahead Union College led a life depressed and anguished. Why? Some say that the war broke the rush, others say there was an antagonism of pol- icy, but the cause lies deeper; it was Dr. N ott himself. He was to Union College a universal benefactor. But, if he desired legislation, he demanded it; if he needed money, he went out into the business world and made it. His own son went about the work of founding other institutions of learn- ing throughout the country, Union kept sending her sons out, but there was no sys- tem of retaining their interest as alumni.\ The last of Dr. .A.lexander's address was a brief review of the great teachers under Dr. N ott and of the progress made under the succeeding presidents. He spoke briefly also of the \grandeur of today\ under President Charles Alexander Richmond, and I ' ~.: ··l

and up ake . tng .ces ble, vas t is ·ess ght on- his . ln- nt- .ty, ~ol­ the the )In Lke lie, ro- od w- ter on ~d. ;h, ol- )r. :a ed ed ·Id he n- pt ·s- ' ,, l. a )r. 1C ly er td I ' ' I I ,,·, THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 the prospects of the college in the future. President Richmond then introduced Governor Martin H. Glynn as his \personal friend and a friend of the college,\ who spoke on '(Education and Public Health.\ President Alexander Meiklejohn, of Am- herst, followed Governor Glynn. He brought greetings from both Amherst and his own alma mater, Brown University. He spoke very briefly and limited his remarks to the relations between Union and Brown, and those between the local college and A_mherst. Following Dr. Meiklejohn, Presi- dent Stryker of Hamilton, spoke, bringing, as he said, ~'the saluations of Union's sister college up in the country seventy miles, by the barge canal.\ Dr. Stryker then said that he· disagreed with the statement that educa·· tion is a finality and went on to tell his rea- sons, making constant reference to the great European struggle which is now going on. President Rush Rhees of Rochester con- cluded the speaking of the afternoon with a word of greeting from his institution, and added a few remarks concerning the signific- ance of the moving of Union College in 1814 from the canal site to college hill, to which the city has rapidly pursued it. His key note was that academic life must not and cannot remain detached from the world, for it has that which the world is seeking. Three honorary degrees were then con- ferred by Dr. Richmond : the degree of I~L. D. upon Governor Martin H. Glynn and C .... ~. Coffin, chairman of the board of di- rectors of the General Electric Company, and the degree of Sc. D. upon Dr. Edward Jack- son, of Denver, Colo., a graduate of Union College in the class of 1874. The men were presented by Dr. Silas B. Brownell, chairman of the board of trus- tees. In conferring the honorary degrees Presi- dent Richmond said: \Edward Jackson, Master of Arts, Doctor of Medicine, a graduate of Union in the class of 1874; surgeon, professor, author, editor in America of the London Ophthalmic Re- view and of the Ophthalmic Department of the American Journal of Medical Science. For your contributions to the Science of Medicine and your distinguished service to your profession, I admit you to the degree of Doctor of Science.\ ''Charles Albert Coffin. His constructive genius has built up a great enterprise; his statesmanship in adtninistration has direct- ed industry in the service of the public weal; his sagacity, his integrity, his generous en- couragement and ready sympathy has won him a place in the esteem and affection of many hearts. Union College deems you worthy of honor. I admit you to the de- gree of Doctor of Laws and direct that your name be inscribed in the roll of her adopted sons.\ \Martin H. Glynn, Master of Arts, Doctor of I~aws, lawyer, editor, governor, holder of public trust. In recognition of your attain- nlents in the field of journalism and of your eminence in the realms of politics as chief magistrate of the commonwealth under which Union College holds her charter, I ad- mit you to the degree of Doctor of Laws and direct that your name be enrolled among her adopted sons.\ The exercises were closed with the sing- ing of the \SONG TO OLD UNION.\ Directly after the exercises Dr. and Mrs. Richmond held an informal reception at their home on the campus. In addition to the speakers there were present as guests of the college President William H. S. Demarest of Rutgers, Presi- dent Leonard A. Blue of the State College for Teachers, President Charles S. Howe of the Case School of Applied Science, Presi- dent George S. Davis of Hunter College, President Kerr D. MacMillan oi-· Wells Col- lege, President George Stewart of Auburn Theological Seminary, Dean William Henry Cranshaw of Colgate University, Professor

r . t: ~'.' i I I c .. 16 THE C·ON·CORDIEN:SIS James Egbert, director of the summer school of Colgate University, Edward A. Grosve- nor, president of the national chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, and James D. Wyer, Jr., state librarian. HONOR :COURT NOTICE. In accordance with the constitution, the Honor Court announces that the No Deal ·agreement has been ratified by the student body, and thus remains a part of student law for another year. Its provisions apply to all student elections. The officers for the year are: D. A. Coulter, '15, president, and H. B. Santee, '16, secretary-treasurer. TO ANSWER AN INQUIRY. The officers of the student body are: D. A. Coulter, '15, president, and D. F. Chap- man '1 '(, secretary. In case of the absence of the president at student meeting, R. S. Blodgett acts as first vice-president and H. L. Faust '15 as second vice-president. In case of the ab- sence of all three, another member of the Terrace Council takes the chair. ETIQUETE OF COLLEGE. 1. Don't fail to speak to every man you meet on the campus at least once a week. By so doing you will uphold Union's demo- cratic spirit and at the same time you will be avoiding unseemly familiarity. 2. Never salute a professor-always greet him with a familiar Hello ! or Hawaii Professor! This inveigles him into thinking you are in no way iJ!timidated by his pres- ence. 3. Always grab onto the books in the library assigned for outside reading, at the same time five or six other studes want them and under no circumstances hurry-take plenty of time to look them over. 4. If you are an under-classtnan be sure 11ever to let a professor or upper-classtnan precede you through a door. It shows you have plenty of nerve and self confidence-- and besides, it shows your good breeding. 5. Under no circumstances use the side- walks on the campus; it is a waste of time. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. 6. When coming in class late always walk in between the professor and the class. You are sure to be noticed then and it pays to advertise. N. A. F. The day was done, bright summer's day, The night's soft shadows gently stealing O'er the garden which so peaceful lay; A bell from yonder softly pealing. Across the gate I seized her soft brown head, She struggled long; compassion struck me now, Then still she was an I, e'en darn near dead Gazed in the eyes of our old brindle cow. MUSICAL CLUBS. 1\tlanager MacMillan of the Musical Clubs announces a concert for November 13th at Ballston Spa before the senior class of the High School of that town. A second con- cert will be held in Scotia on November 16th under the auspices of the Baptist Church. The clubs will also give a concert on No- vember 20 in Amsterdam before members of the Phi Delta Sorority. The plans for the Thanksgiving trip are coming along nicely, but arrangements have not been fully completed. ALUMNI NOTES. R. H. Libott, Jr., '12, is spending a two weeks' vacation on the Hill. Jacob H. Van Aernum, also '12, is now in the Pittsburgh office of the G. E. The plans for the new Delta Phi house which is being built on Lennox Road are the work of a Union man, Frank L. Conl- stock, 1890. r I (. ~·

you g. e. is , ng ead, at the rch. No- for ong . lll are ...... , r )·.··· (. \ ~· C· ·- . i . \_ : ' ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 DEBATING. IN GERMAN. Both the Adelphic and the Philomathean societies are making very favorable prog- ress. tthe quality o£ the freshmen material is excellent, and the new men are taking an active interest in the work. The ques- tion for the inter-collegiate debate has not yet been received from Cornell. It has been custo1nary to use the same question for both the inter-collegiate and the inter-so- ciety debates. For this reason the college debaters are eagerly awaiting the statement of the question from Cornell. \Bags'\-Life isn't all beer and skittles, Mr. Mann. \Louie\ Mann-I never tasted skittles, . Slf. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. The college Y. M. C. A. is soon to start its industrial classes. Students wishing to teach these classes will have the opportun- ity of doing so. Samples of the books to be used in the Bible study classes have been receive(L They are the best suited to the purpose of all the association has ever secured. If the various organizations and individ- uals who use Siliman Hall would be a little n1ore tidy in their use of it, it would help materially in keeping up a good appearance of the building. Dont throw papers around or chairs either. Treat it as you would you.r own home. Sunday, October 18, Rev. Harold Pierce of .New York. gave a very interesting talk at vespers on \Home Runs.\ He illustrated his talk with crayon sketches. Rev. Pierce is a pleasing and forceful speaker and the message he brought was well worth hear- ing. His audience unfortunately was rather small. It is too bad the fellows cannot give theY. M. C. A. better support in the matter of attendance at its vesp~r services. It takes great pains to secure interesting and notable speakers whom we could all profit by hearing and its worthy efforts in ~his re- spect in behalf of the student body shoul~i be rewarded by better support to say the least. If the students of Union College are fol- lowing the achievements of the little red- headed fellow who turned the tide (the wrong way for us) in the Union-Hamilton meet last spring, the following from Ham- ilton Life will be of interest: Lee Joins I. A. A. C. Whatever may be said of the rest of the college, Captain Lee of the track team was not idle during the summer months. Only a week or two after con1mencement he be- came a member of the Irish-American Ath- letic Club, having at the same time an of- fer from the New York A. C., and was run- ning for the Irish-Americans all summer, taking part in nine meets. Most of his work was done on relay teams, with Kiviat, Eller and Frazier as team-tnates. Captain Lee wishes to announce that he will be on the track at 4 :30 on Tuesdays and Thursdays for the next two weeks, and would like to have track candidates, especially from the sophomore and fresh- tnan classes, report to him there. J. M. was ordering a new suit of clothes. \How about the pockets,\ asked the tailor. \Quart size,\ sez J. M. Report has it that Williams College is wrestling with the No Deal system. At a recent meeting of the No Deal Committee the signatures obtained on the petition blanks were counted but the result was un- favorable to the ratification of the agree- ment. As the count was close another meet- ing was held but the final results are not yet known to us. ,

' ~ l ' l '/I . I I 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE net arm-bands is seen trailing up the hill at R. P. I. The answer will show itself in the length of that line ; the longer the line, the shorter the answer. Let us hope that four Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., hundred men will stand for our answer., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpba Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N.Y. ON TO TROY. Why should I go to Troy? That is the question which will be asked by a few about the Hill during the coming week. When- ever it is asked, we hope there will be hun- dreds of voices about the questioner an1 that each of these will summon its loudest, its shrillest tone with a \because that can't be downed. W·e hope that the question- er will be swamped in a sea of \becauses\ until his one weak little \why\ is drowned and he, with the others, raises his voice in that joyous shout-\On to Troy.\ Is the ''Union Spirit\ a theory? The answer will present itself to us on the af- ternoon of Hallow'een when a line of gar- each with that deep feeling if pride for that which he loves showing itself in his very countenance, ringing forth in each utterance of his voice, making his step light and his heart free and his mind determined. Why? Because that team wants you to help it fight! Those men who sacrifice themselves day in and day out for the sake of Union's fair name want to hear your voice rend the atmosphere with cries of praise and encouragement. They want to see each place on the Union bleachers filled with a comrade who is ever willing and able to help them play the game-the determined game, the game that can't be lost. When glancing over the places where Union men might be expected to be found, they want to see four hundred \U\ arm-bands, assur ... ing them that, not only a handful of the ardent lovers of the game are there to wit- ness the sport, but that every Union man who loves to see the spirit of fight in our representatives on the gridiron is there to show his real college spirit by cheering with every breath for the best football team that has trotted upon the field in Garnet jerseys for many a year. Therefore, shake off your drowsiness ye n1en of influence in your various classes and organizations. Looking about yoa, you will find ·men who are meditating on the question-\To go or not to go.\ Make up their minds for them. Convince then1 of the fact that the question has but one reasonable answer and crowd them into that ... 7' \-

at the , the four that very nee his to sake . . each a to men .... the wit- man our to . s ye yo a, on one that < ''·1, ' .. · . . \ J, ; I . ; /, \• \1 . \ I·' ! ~ ., ' ~ ... .l \ : ''i l. ;~ l \ 1~ t' ' ·' '. .! \ ' J I if ~ ; l· i ' ~ . j. ~ . . I I ~· r; ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 19' !. . . wise and joyous army which has taken up the slogan-On ·to Troy ! WHY NO-T? As far as we know there is no rule which would tend to prevent Union students from wearing arm bands on the campus of Union College. Furthermore this form of showing spirit is practiced in many coleges of no greater size than Union and, in fact, was practiced here in years gone by. It looks like a good custom and one which should be re-established here and firmly supported by the student body. This is not a question of whether we know one another or not, as some seem to think; it is a ques- tion of whether or not we are willing to wear a uniform which is the symbol of our spirit and loyalty to our college. If not, why not? At the Worcester Tech, game let us see if this custom can begin to be brought back ; let us see if we can find four hundred loyal rooters on the student bleachers, each mark- ed with that cherished garnet band which ·we are going to carry in triumph up the hill at Troy just one week later. Why not? OUR NEGLECTED WORKERS. of their thanks should be bestowed, son1e of their co-operation placed. Who were the ushers at the centennial exercises? How many can answer tha( r' Surely we are giving a surprise to some when we tell them that these men were volunteers from the Press Club, called forth by President Mandeville of that organlza- tion. Who sends out news items to all of the papers throughout the country in an ef- fort to place Union College before the pub- . lie? The Press Club. Who is it that stands always in readiness to push forward any good movement for the betterment of Union? The answer again is-the Press Club. The Press Club is one of the most active of the forces which are at work within our community. Its members labor through- out ever.y day of the college year for the good of our college, without glory, with- out recompense, without hope of any form of reward save the mere satisfaction o£ their own good deeds, and in many cases we fear that it is necessary to add-without thanks. Here's another one. Who fights the 'varsity five days out of the week, thus pre- paring it for the game on the sixth? .. '\fhe scrubs-those men, many of whom sit Does it ever occur to the majority of stu- dents in any institution that there are men laboring day by day with all the energy which they are able to put forth for the sake of their college and that only a comparative- ly small number of these get thanks, much less glory, for their labors ? We wish to ~a 1.l the attention of the men of Union College to this fact and show them just where St.) me of their spirit should be put, where sotne idle on the bench Saturday after Saturday wishing that they were big enough or strong enough, or active enough or some- thing-just so they could get out and fight with their comrades. Do we ever thing of them when we yell from the bleachers? De we remember them when the season is ended in glory and each man who has play- ed the required number of quarters is re- warded with a \U\ an \aUa\ or what not? Do we? No, I hardly think we do. f

t I .J 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS There are many such elements which go LIBRARY RECEIVES INTERES'TING toward making our community worth while. There are members of the faculty serving on student committees, serving on the Athletic Board, on the Publication Boar dand giving their time unsparingly for the betterment of those things which we, as students, re- gard as valuable assets to real college life. These men certainly deserve our appre- ciation for their efforts. Let us not, therefore, look upon the sur- face of things vvhen we are counting the men who are working for our '\lvell being. Let us support and co-operate with those organizations whose good works pass more or less unnoticed among outsiders. Let us appreciate the efforts of those who labor silently, incessantly, ingloriously-our neg- lected workers. TWO NEW FRATERNITY HOUSES. It is expected that Junior Week will see two more fraternity houses open to festivi- ties on the campus. The Phi Delta Theta house is rapidly nearing completion, and is to be ready for occupancy by November 1. The exterior effect is stucco, while the interior is to be finished in chestnut. It is to accommodate twenty persons, and has the suite system of bedrooms, with the billiard room on the top floor. The rooms on the ground floor are separated by movable partitions, so that it may be opened into one large room. The cost is $17,000. The Delta Phi house is to be ready for occupancy by the first of February. The ex- terior is to be finished in stucco. It is plan- ned to accommodate eighteen people. The dormitory system will be used here, with separate study rooms on the second floor. GIFT. The college library has been presented with a very interesting book by Mrs. Adair of Portman Square, London. Its title is \The Life of Brevet Major-General U. S. V. J atnes S. Wads worth. General Wadsworth was a vvealthy man who sacrificed every- thing for the war. He was promoted to general after ~Gettysburg and he was killed in the Battle of the Wilderness. · Horace Greeley says of him : \He was one of the finest examples of patriotism that this world has ever produced.\ Mrs. Adair is the general's daughter. COUNCIL ON ATHLETIC TRAINING. At a meeting of the representatives of the Athletic Council held October 5, plans for organization were discussed and the follow- ing officers were elected : President, Hun- ter, '15; vice-president, Fitzgerald, '15; and secretary-treasurer, Sharp, '15. A commit- tee consiting of Fitzgerald, Hubbs and Hooper was appointed to draw up a con- stitution and by-laws. At a special meet- ing held October 12, the following constitu- tion and by-laws were submitted and ap- proved by the Council: Constitution. Article I. This organization shall be known as \The Council of Athletic Spon- sors of Union College.\ Article II. The objects and duties of this organization shall be: 1. To direct, regulate, and enforce the observance of the college training rules as adopted by the student body and here set forth: \Athletic Training and Its Relation to the Student Body.\ Article I. Football men must keep good hours. They must be in bed by 10 :30. The student body should se to it that football men are not prevented from going to bed,

is v. to the this the the for and '+ and con- ap- be this the as set the The bed, ·:·-'1' .. ~ •··· ~~ ' 1.: .· I . • '' ~ ,- .. \, .. •'j '. ,, THE CONCORDIEN·SIS 21 and should let them sleep when they are in bed. Article II. Football men must not use ter training in the college as they may frotn' time to time :see fit, or adopt such rules as are passed by the student body concerning athletic training. · tobacco in any form. When it is possible the other students, should avoid smoking near a £ootbaH man. Article III. Football men must abstain from all alcoholic drinks. This does not mean that they are allowed to take a glass o£ beer now and then;-IT MEANS AB· SOLUTELY N·O LIQUOR. Article III. Membership in this organi- zation shall be limited to one upper-class- man elected from each of the recognized fraternities, and the Pyramid Club, and three upper-classmen from the neutral bodv. ., I£ possible these members are to be non- varsity n1en. Article IV. Football men must eat regu ... larly and then only prescribed food. This means that eating (or drinking of sodas, milk shakes~ etc.) between meals be avoid- ed. Fruit may he eaten before meals. Article V. Football men must keep out of all class fights. Men who are on the foot- ball squad must reserve their strength and vigor for football. Class mates must in- sist on keeping football men out of fights. Article VI. Football men must do their utmost to keep well up in their studies. The student body should co-operate and see to it that nothing hinders the~ football man from studying. Article VIL Every student must hold himself responsible for his team. Whether you are a member of the team or not, don't stand by and see an athlete break training- PROTEST VIGOROUSLY. Raise the moral to the highest point by INSISTING upon strict adherence to training rules. Article VIII. When possible the above rules are to apply to all branches of athletic training.\ 2. To take an active interest in those men in each group who are out £or any )varsity work, and by suggestion, direction, and general oversight on the part of each in- dividual representative to see to it that those men out for athletics in his house or in his group observes strict training rules at all times. 3. It shall further be the duty of this or- ganization to pass such rules relative to bet- Article IV.. The officers of this council shall consist of a president, vice-president and secretary-treasurer. Article V. Duties of the various of- ficers: 1. The duties o£ the president shall be to preside at all meetings of the council, call special meetings, appoint such committees as are designated for the chair, and to direct the course of business according to this con- stitution and by-laws, and general parlia- mentary form. 2. The vice-president shall preside in the absence of the president and shall con- duct all business as acting president. 3. The secretary-treasurer shall preside in the absence of the president and vic~­ president. His regular duties shall be t,l keep a record of all minutes of the council, to take charge of all books and other papers of the organization, to take charge of all moneys, to pay such bills as may be requir- ed, and to carry on all correspondence for the council. By ... Laws . Article I. Upper-classmen alone are eligible as members of this council. Article II. In case juniors ate elected their term of office shall continue through- out their senior year. cil, at least, must be a senior. Article III. The president of this coun- Article IV. The meetings shall be held on the first Monday of each month at 7 :00 P. M., and whenever the president shall call special meetings.

. i I . I ,' I . j' i 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS , Article V. Election of representatives from the various groups must be held before the first regular meeting of this council in the fall term. Notice of such election to be announced to the student body in ample titne to allow such representatives to be properly elected. · Article VI. Election of officers shall take place at the first regular meeting held in the fall term of the college year. Article VII. Only those accredited rep- resentatives of the various recognized groups in the college shall be eligible as mem hers of the organization. Article VIII. A quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall consist of two- thirds of the regular members. Article IX. A majority vote shall be necessary for the passage of any motion and also for the election of any officer. In case of a tie the president shall cast the decid- ing vote. Article X. Mem hers will make reports at ·each regular meeting of conditions and of- fer suggestions relative to the observance of t!\aining rules among the men of the var- ious groups they represent. Article XI. This constitution and by- laws may be revoked, amended, or other- wise modified by a three-quarter vote of the regular members present . (Signed) JAMES L. FITZGERALD, Chairman. H. NEWTON HUBBS, ARNOLD HOOPER, Committee. INTER-FRATERNITY COUNCIL IN- VESTIGATING. Owing to the widespread disatisfaction with the present system of freshman rushing here at Union; an Interfraternity Council has been formed to discuss the matter and, if pos- sible, to formulate a definite system similar to that which is in use in many of the other colleges today. The council of which Wai- ter Baker '15 is chairman, is composed o£ a delegate from each fraternity represented on the hill. At present the council has taken no definite action but is busy exanl- ining and discussing the system as used in other small colleges of Union's size. It is expected that within a short time some ac- tion will he taken that will materially change the rushing method of next year. A LITTLE WIT FROM ELSEWHERE. First Simple Nimrod-\ Hey dont shoot f . ··y·.our gun isn't loaded.\ Second S. N.-\Can't help it. The bird \\Von't wait. \-Harvard Lampoon. Distressed Damsel- Oh sir, catch that man! He wanted to kiss me. Pensive Pedestrian-That't all right. There'll be another along in a minute.- WilliamsPurple Cow. \What time is it?\ asked the gay young blood of the bartender. \It's a quarted passed,\ remarked the bar- keep as he slipped said g. y. p. a bum coin. -Cornell Widow. Netty- Hear you have thrown Bob over. Betty-Yes; he was such a poor letter writer, I was ashamed to show his love let- ters to the girls.-Stanford Chaparral. As we sat by the sea, \Don't be silly!\ she said. I had stolen but three As we sat by the sea; So I sulked angrily Till at last, blushing red, As we sat by the sea, \Don't! Be siliy !\ she said.- } ester. If a guy steps on your sore toe, cheer up-that is if there's a chiropodist in town.

Wai- o£ has exanl- in It is ac- ERE. f bird that . COlO. etter let- ' . ' I. , THE CONCORDIENSlS 23 DOCTOR HALE DISCUSSES YEATS. The English Club met in Washburn Hall last Monday evening. Doctor Hale read a very interesting paper dealing with the works and characteristics of William But- lerYeats. This paper, with the general dis- cussion which followed it, afforded to the members of the club an exceedingly enjoy- . A . S \T d\ able even1ng. · ctlng ecretary · e ·Culver filled his end of the program in a n1anner highly commendable, by preparing a most delicious repast which was greatly en- joyed by the members of the club, after the mental feast which they had just de- voured at the expense of Doctor Hale. Friday, October 30, was set as the ac- cepted date for the next meeting. Tubby: Yes, I'm thinking of helping the Germans in the present struggle. Fair One: Which side will you fight on? -Exchange. LACK OF WORDS. Latest reports from the front say that the European dove of peace has gone ou.t of business. IMPROVEMENTS FOR GENERAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT. The engineering department recently re- ceived the gift of a fine Y level and leveling rod from W. Boardman Reed of the class of 1882. The department has also purchased a Bauch & Lon~b transit of the latest type. This transit is equipped with several new devices, one of which is an adjustment for changing the power of the telescope. During the last summer, the cement lab- oratory has been greatly improved. A new 5,000 pound Riehli combination testing machine has been installed and individual slate top tables have been constructed. A new moist closet and sink have been ob- tained and large storage tanks for specimens are under construction. The laboratory is now equipped to give a full course in cement testing. WITH THE PRESS CLUB. The Press Club has many new projects under way. One is to sell arm bands to the students attending the R. P. 1. gan1e at Troy, October 31. The suggestion of sell- ing peanuts at the games on the campus was adopted, but nothing definite will be done until further investigation has been n1ade in the matter. The idea of a college press ,club convention is also under way. Letters will be· sent to the different colleges to learn their views on the subject. YE OLDEN TIMES. An 'old timer\ and friend of Union has been kind enough to recount for us the fol- lowing authentic story of \Bill\ Merriam, one of Union's i1 ustrious old grade. Wil- liam H. Merriam of Troy, graduated from Union in the early fifties. During the Civil War, the ease with which he used polusy- 11abic English justly earned the sobriquet o£ the \Adjective correspondent\ of the New York Herald. The following definition, which he playfully gave at the Ionic Club of 'rroy justifies his title. \A riminuative ar- gentive truncated cone, convex at the sum- mit and semi-perforated with symmetrical indentations.\ For the benefit of the un- sophiticated the article described was a thimble. In the good old days the city of Albany possessed a place of entertainment and ex- hileration known to Dr. N ott's disciples as the White Pillar. Hither it was that young \Bill then an under-grad, following in the footsteps of his illustrious dad, whose fluid capacity was surpassed only by his pro- ficiency in profanity, one day directed his erring steps. Cheered and refreshed fro1n his journey on the Empire State Express of sixty years ago, which had bumped and j&rked him away

l I ! I I I ; ' I \ : \ . I ' ! ' I . I I I . 'i 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS from Dr. Nott's classes at the tremendous rate of eighteen to twenty miles per hour, Bill emerged from the portals of the White Pillar with the intention of exploring the Capitol City. The first object o£ interest was encountered within precisely two steps of the aforesaid door and was none other than Mr. Merriam, Sr., destination unknown but surtnised, who spreading wide his arms interposed· his Pickwickian bulk between Bill and liberty. \Young man, what are you doing here?\ \Who th_e hell are you?\ \\Villiam ·r Don't talk that way to me, sir! why aren't you in college?\ \What do you mean sir? Out of my way!\ \William !_ Why- \Get out of my way you doddering old fool or I'll call an officer! You're drunk, sir!\ The hot shot in such broadsides was too much for tpe near-sighted Merriam, Sr., who pulled forth his spectacles to assure himself of th~ truth of his optical illusion, while Bill making use of the delay, disap- peared among the gathering crowd of curious burghers and fled by devious paths to the railroad station. The still skeptical and irate parent was heard to mutter sulphurous in- cantations of which \Bill\ and \slammed sure,\ or words sounding like that, were all that is fit to p~int as he directed the course of his bulky form with rapid strides toward the station. The train for Schenectady was just pulling out when, winded and perspiring Mr. Mer- riam swung aboard and commenced a thor- ough search of the coaches. Bill had forseen the manoeuver and as the father boarded the smoker on the station side, the son swung himself into the cab on the opposite side. Whether Bill's eloquence, the ser- iousness of his predicament or the high qual- ity of the White Pillar's wares won the day, we canot say but it is certain that while the elder Merriam with the eloquence and diction of Captain Kidd searched the train enquiring for a lad whose name was neariy everything between Bili and Beelze- bub, the wayward youth was travelling com- fortably in the cab. When the train pulled up at Dorp a bird's eye view would have disclosed a lithe youthful figure flying with incredible swiftness through open fields and back yards, while a pompous heavy one by a more common route but with necessarily less speed, headed in the same general di- rection for Union College. \Vhen a heavy and perspiring gentleman knocked loudly at a certain door in South College a cheery voice from the other side exclaimed : \Come in !\ A look of astonishment overspread the countenance of the caller as he perceived in shirt sleeves and slippers with suspenders loosened and shirt open at the neck, his duti- ful son half buried in volumes of classic lore arranged in the most studied confusion. ,/ The look of astonishment on his face gave Bill the hoped-for opportunity, who turning around after the proper delay promptly sprang up and recognized his solicitous par- ent with due ceremony. \Why Dad, what's the matter. Nothing wrong at home is there?\ \\William, ho'\-v long have you been in this room?'' \\ 'Bout three hours and a half, why? is there anything gone wrong, Dad? (Earnest- ly.) \\William, when were you in Albany last?\ \Why three weeks ago, I guess or maybe four. But Dad, what on earth is the matter. Any one sick-dead--what is it?\ (Very anxiously.) \Good heavens, boy, I just met your double over in Albany and he threatened to run me into the way ... to and- ''Sit down, Dad, and tell us all about it. I'd like to lay hands on the fellow who treated you so.\ \Damme so would I.\ (Very savagely.)

was gcom- pulled have with ds and by ral di- South side the in duti- lore . this y? is ast?\ your to it. who y.) \ -. ,. ... ' ',:. . ' i -; If you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Ask any college or high school man in the Capitol District, what clothes meas- ure up to his ideals in styles. Ask any discriminating dresser what clothes best meet his ideas of refined taste. The answer will invariably be \STEEFEL QUALITY CLOTHES\ Add to the above, unusual values and you have the rea- son for the wonderful popularity of Steefel Clothes. Fall Suits and Overcoats $10 to $60. NOTHING :OVER 10 CENTS. .All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & tOe Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE-PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan s t o r e like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below the Brlda;e. ,.

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN Beautiful College Pennants 5 Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4--PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra : 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your naessure $20 upvvard Full- Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars , Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 State Street Telephone 91-W The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys. I I ! ; .

I I ! ; . '-\' ;,' .. ;;; , •I r '; ' ~ ,, ,•' •· BeDinger Paint Co. PAlNTS, O,ILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Poliahe1 212 So. Centre St. When the leaves ' Begin· to fall Walk-Over Shoes Are Best of all. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A R Z • ' Q h furnished music at Union College 1905 • < • Ita s rc estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, 'Io, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World ~~:·tt~~!~!::f~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'; 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $1·8 to $35. A.GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eye• Te1ted and Gla11e1 Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography uw atch the Show Case RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works · 116 Jay Street. t

·The Smoke of the Smart Set Smart men of fashion everywhere- clubmen, connoisseurs, milJionaire spo~tsmen---have discovered the greater enjoyment and satisfaction in the fresh cigarettes of unique flavor and delicious mildness they roll for themselves, to suit their own taste, from mellow \Bull\ Durham tobacco. GENUINE .. BULL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO No other tobacco in the world has the wonderful sweet fragrance and ripe, natural mildness of \Bull\ Durham. No !other cigarettes have the exquisite smoothness and delightful freshness of n Bull 1 Durham hand-made cigarettes. n Bull 1 Durham is a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment, thoroughly appreciated by smokers of experience the world over. A•k for a FREE book of ''paper•'' with each 5c •ack FREE An Illustrated Booklet, showing correct way to 1 Roll Your Own 11 Ciga- rettes, and a Book of cigarette papers will both be mailed to you, free, on postal request. Address 11 Bull\ Dur- ham, Durham, N. C .. Room 1298. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. ~\'W \\\$\\~'\'\'\'\u .... ,,.,.,~~~~~lU

.,: •! . ,. ' 'I THE UNION . 0 f a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which wHl stay by him until be is a Senior can be effected by an occasional de.posit in T·he Schenectady Savings Bank CO~R. STATE AND CL.INTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. 43 FELLOWS can write 24 LETTERS By purchasing our embosse·d stationery at 2Sc PER BOX The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building '~On your way to the post office\ ' . :~ . HE MOHICAt~ COM PAN· } . .. ' \ ' . . ,, . • • I .- _'o\ ' .. . .. . ' \ ·, .. .. • ;.- l ' • ' ' ~- - L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Some ot the Fellows won on the Athletics Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Some of the Fellows won on the Braves But all of the Fellows win on That is Right, Reasonable W.ATERS and On Time Schenectady Art Press \The Right Tailor with the Right Prices\ J. H. Como, Prop. 206 So. Centre St. 2 doors from State lltllittm JKirkpatrtrk MEN'S SHOP 132-134 Fulton St. New York City Of course we do CLEANING and Press- ing. Let us call for your work. 463 STATE St. up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. TELEPHONE 1441\'

I j .. ~ i Portraits .JI,J!, Your Inspection of our Product Cordially Invited THe &TVDIO 0 .. 241 STATE STRE£T OVER PATTO·N 8. HALL The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLE·s DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. just Right THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN 84.&0 TO Sl.OO Metropolitan Styles .. Expert Fittings Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Feft Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday Breakfast 8:00 A .. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best of things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street

£AN 1 y , N. Y. 10M L M. 10M. st of and - ' >' ' 'f ,: ., ' .. · ' \< ·. f : .\ Stoll's Ho!hrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, No Y .. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop. A unique German place, ·Catering to private parties in and out of the house .. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. United Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. H. J. SCHWARTZ, Manager. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallhauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. 'felephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. · Phone 4489. WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP QUALITY LAUNDRY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACTION combined makes clear the reason why SPALD- . lNG'S are outfitters to champions whose im- plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pau ng lOS, 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch . CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPE.D CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office••

, I, : ; I , ; I : I ' ' l ~ ; ' lli j ,~ I 1 ; ; ! ~ t I l :. ~ l ' t i ~ I 1 I 'I ' '' .. ' .\ ! l l j I; ~ I ; } I l,, I ' k l ,, \ : ~ . J ! I ' ' \ I i I ! ! ! ' 1 'I . i ' ' sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN: \'!/ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells ... - the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little we think you'll like us and<?~ way o~ <:}oinlii busin~ The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press 'I ;_' ,. l I \

t ~ .·>;: '\\. ' '!> .: ·~ ' ~fb ' : ' l •. f ', ... ' ' ,,. ,_. ; ',t 'THE PVBLilHED·WEEKL Y BY· THE STVDENTS· OF· VNION· COLLEGE ON TO TROY! VOL. 38 OCTOBER 29th, 1914 ~' NO.4 .... _ @r :'llt~ 'lj@Jn~ )!Iii: ·!H1· · illjt:;;!IJ[!. t!IW ·UJ,___.i ~J

j I 'l : t ' J :f. ' u· q ll ' . • l J ! t : ~ f ; UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNI:ON CO.LLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate , and graduate courses: 1. Csurl!les Jeadhag to the degree of A. B. · CLASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- > mission to this course. French and German are in- . eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRsE E.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering erlucation with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING 'to DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTI ALL Caterer Office 410 Union St. Phone 2845 Special Teas and Coffees for Frats CouRsFJ LEADING 'l'o DEGREE o'F M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laooratory J)iractice and research work. CouRS:E LEADING '110 DF)GREE oF PH. D.-This course of two years of g:tad:uate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES~ Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to; WILLIS G. TuCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, ]. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitoL It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other information, address: ]OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. H UES'l'ED, Secretary, ''Everything for the College Man except Ex•m•'' GUNNING '16 ' SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. Coli ege Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

E.-This of . course admis- N. Y. by prac- in forma- , N.Y. Dean. of the state to its B. is em esters. fee, address: Y. of seven N. Y. m• •• '·· .,. T'RADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea are worn. All atylea and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading expon· entsof Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicinity New Pupi1s received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday. Private Lessons by appoint· ment. Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710- W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~;nja; 3 ~:;:; Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed ' men.

j ; l ' l I l ' I , I I ' I I • I ; l ' ' I ' I ' I ) l I ' l i ! I : I \ I I l l ; . I ' II ; ; ! ! ) . . I! : I i . ' ( I : l I 1 l . ' l . I i I ; : l ' ~ I i I i 1 } ! ! ~f : : t I i I ' : I i j ; t l t : II ! I I I i . II!: . I ! I ' ! ' II ! ' I ; I ' I ( 1: ' I : l ! ! l ! ' ) : I ! l BABBITT & CO'S. PALL AND WINTER DISPLAY OP America's Most Famous Make ROGERS·PEET CO. Is full of the strongest kind of attractions for every man who is keen for clothes whose equal can only be found in highest price Custom- Tailor Shops. The last word in select fabrics,. exclusive tailoring· and up-to-the-hour correct styles wi1I be found in this. exceptionally stron:g line. WE MAKE A SPECIALTY O·F ~ogers-Peet Co's •. Dress Cl'othes In our Dress Clothes Department will be found all the latest and best ideas in smart Day and Evening Dress. for men. This Department is a revelation to many men who have visited it and found therein the highest type of Dress Clothes possible to produce,-garments which in :fit, fashion and quality the most expensive of custom made clothes can not improve upon at double the price. Babb -I.tt & c.. O \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ • · ·· • 451-453 BROADWAY (!)a.c.P. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are _not living in the stage-coach d-ecade, at whtch t1me the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as otfe did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaire.d by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposit~ Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawing Inka I Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilage \') Photo Mounter Paate I Drawing Board Paate Liquid Paate l Office Paste Vegetable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-,smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES 31 Steuben Street, PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS .~'

.~' .;· Tobacco That is , Good For Your Nerves •. TUXEDO actually soothes the · nerves. It is just mild enough to keep your nervous system in poise, your muscles in tone. Unlike other tobaccos, Tuxedo burns cool and slow. There cannot be a speck of irrita- tion in a pound of Tuxedo. Great singers :Smoke Tuxedo just before a performance. Public speak- ers testify as to its soothing influence. Doctors recommend it to smokers whose throats are delicate. The Per/eel Tobacco /or Pipe and Cigarelfe ) The secret of its superiority is the unique \Tuxedo Process\ by which all the unpleasant features are elimi- nated from tobacco. Another reason is that Tuxedo is made from the best tobacco grown- the choicest, mildest, mellowest leaves of the highest grade Burley tobacco. Tuxedo is widelyimitated-but no other manufacturer has succeeded in making a tobacco as good as Tuxedo. Tuxedo will give you the greatest pleasure and satisfaction that money will buy. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient p ou c b, 5 Famous green tin, 1 o inner-lined with . C with gold lettering, C moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket /n Glass Humidor•, SOc and 90c FREE Send us 2 ce~ts in ~tamps for pos!• age ~nd we w1ll ma1l you a souvemr tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1219 111 Fifth A venue New York JOEL HILLMAN proprietor \Harvey's\ Washington, D. C. ''Tuxedo i& a good 11 whole- some tobacco 11 with a mild- ness and fragrance all ib own. It adds many degtee3 t • l I II o my prpe p easure. ~/lc&..t L. S. BROWN Gen. Agent of the Southern Railway at Washington ''Tuxedo ha& gained and maintained a high reputation for superiority. [b coolne.ss, mildnes.s 11 and genuine sooth- ing qualities are unrivalled. '' PHILIP R. GOODWIN the illustrator ''There 11 .S zest and encour- agement in. e,ery pipeful of Tuxedo. The sweetest, most soothing smoke I know. 111 ~Q4oJ .:._

. ., .I, 1 : . . ! . ! I I I . ~ ' ; . t i l l . f ! i·j ) ' ! . ! ! 1 il . l l ~ l ; ;I l li: l ! l! \ ' !I ll \ I ! ; i . ' I ' ! i . j I : ·I \ ; ! l j .·~ l ' I I ;l f ' I I : II I II I I :, I- I I ' I .I ~' :I I \I t : I l I f l I , : ~ ! ~ i \ t lt } l I ~ . l 1 :; l I I' l I • f :II ! ; l ; : ! l i i : I ' ' I t : l . l ~ l ' I I : \I ~ . ! i I ' I I ! I I . I I . j 1 ' I . i I I ::-.)\\ ' . ' Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds .....•.............•. lOc :Collars ...........................•.• 2c · ·Union Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . • . ........... 6c each Hose ......... ~ ............. 3c per pair Handkerchiets ....................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of Caps, · Gowns and Hoods To the American College• and Univeraitiea from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a apeci•Ity UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 3 18-320 State Street -•--•·H• ~ ....... ~ ..... ~\- ... \*\'~-W·-·,---....;--\. To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEAT'ER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Pain tin g. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. I tt 11!;. U K~ ITWL.>'\J~ r ()11 J'/Vi \( Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. •,\1 '!· ,···· ' .

)'• ., ' '• . ~: .. · . . ' . '•l ~~· . :.'\. I ' ·i· ' \ '. j ' 't_ ,···· ' ' Clothing Furnishings Hats. We.'re ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in ea:ch department~ ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We H.avelt'' · Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co . 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S --EUROPEAN......--- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and ·Maiden Lane Albany, N~ Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Atta-ched. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway NEARLY 30 YEA·RS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. we invite you to calL COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

' I I i I ! ~ I j' I, ! I. t i : i ! I ! l ! I { ; I : ! II ! :; t I : : I ' , I: l ! , 'I ! ,~ : i ) : l j : I: ! I ! II I I' I i, ; Ready to Wear ,and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES , Comparison is the : Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, supe,riority of workmanship and newness of design are important features and you wiU prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 tJr over if this ad is presented at the time ofpurchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N. Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the .shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 7Sc Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 2Sc Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNA, Beta Theta Pi .NEAR BARNEY'S College RepreeentQtive 1908 1914 1915 -~Row TANGO SHIRTS are an evening dress • necessity. The bosoms are . tucked, puffed, plea- ted or ''mushroom.'' $2.00 and up Cluett, Pea.body&Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. J~hn's Church. 'Phone 288-W. 722 Eastern Ave. '' '· ' '·.· / '· \.,• ,·,:' .·; ,,·· ~ I ·, • ',i ! l, ' •• \, ,,~ . r~~, I ', •

.,;,:. \' .' . ; ·~ ·~. ! · .... ', ' ~· ' ·, ' .. '' j, ·'. • '.'J ,..,, ' : .~ The Concordiensis VOL. 38 OCTOBER 29, 1914 NO.4 UNION, 20; WORCESTER TECH., 0. Excellent Team Work Main Feature of the Game. Little Philip-our own Philip-common- ly known as Windah, justified his well- known cognomen ~aturday when he filter- ed, rollicked, maxixed, wended, meandered, made romped, skipped, proceeded, evoluted, , ' 1 piroetted, his way across W orc~ster s. g~a line two distinct and separate ttmes tnvts- ibly attached to the other end of a fo:w~rd pass and scored two touchdowns, ktcktng the goal for the second as a climax. Who did it? Windy Downs. Eventually the score was Union 20, Wor-- cester 0, thirteen of these points being Downs. Wally Girling ki'cked .two fieldr goals in the course of the afternoon and Lynde Hokerk obliged by kicking the goal after Windy's first goal in the first quarter. It seemed to the bystanders that the Garnet should have accumulated about forty points from the way the team started off, and in fact throughout the entire game Union continually assumed the offensive and innumerable times approached W orces- ter' s goal only to be deterred from scoring by prohibitive penalties. Worcester kicked off in the first quarter and immediately the Garnet team made sev- eral consecutive gains down the field. The line was never stronger than in that first quarter and throughout the game the fast, merciless battering of Dow Roof, Girling, and Rosecrans in the back field was remark- able. Time after time Roof would plunge through Worcester's line like a dynam~c born b; time after time, aided by splendtd interference, Girting would scrape around tackle for long gains, and then the same play would be repeated on the other side of the line with Rosey in charg~ of the ball. Within thirty yards of Worcester's goal a penalty put Union fifteen yards back on the third down. Beaver called for an end run which netted ten yards. But rather than risk a chance of losing the ball in try- ing tq gain fifteen yars on fourth down, the signal was given for an attempt at field goal, which Girling promptly kicked. Soon afterwards Union again approached the opponent's goal and here Beaver shot a long sizzling forward pass to the goal posts which B u:ffalo Bill Downs assimilated . On the same play Girling sustained a pain- ful muscle bruise and limped out of the game. Hokerk kicked the goal. With the score 10 to 0 the quarter came to a conclusion. The next two quarters, while always promising of better things were barren of results. A remarkable flying pick-up catch by Beaver, executed as surely and quickly as if it had been done on a ''gym\ floor, featured this portion of the game, as again did the battering ram attack oj the Hillmen's

10 back field. The line plunging .of Roof and Stoller was again remarkable. Throughout this part of the game the line was not quite the same iron clad defense it had been and occasionally Worcester would plough through or around for long gains. The home goal, however, was never seriously threatened. . ·In the fourth quarter after vainly camp- ing before the Worcester gates for some time, Girling, back in the game, obliged with another field goal and then the Man Who Laughs came through with a second touch- down precisely like the first-· a forward pass from Brother Jake's prehensile fingers {no ins.ult, Jake). Immediately Phil's fox-trot- trained foot wafted the gaudy pigskin over the bars and the score was 20 to 0. That ended the afternoon's outing, for the whistle blew soon after. The game was remarkable among other things for the frequency with which line- men broke through Worcester's guard and tackled prospective runners. All the line- men had a chance to show-and for the . ground-gaining ability of the backs enough has been said. R. P. I. next ! · The score: PNION. WOR. TECH. Cleveland ----------------------- Tomasi 'Wood left end. ------------------------ left tackle. Shumway Price ---------------------------- Storrs left guard. Hokerk ----------------------- Hazelton center. Vrooman -------..:.______________ Merriam right guard. Jenkins ---------------------- Cas savant left guard Downs -----~-------------------- Duffy right end. lleaver ------------------------- Dunbar quarterback. Rosecrans -- -'-- ------- ... -·------- left halfback. Mossberg Girling ------------------------ Archibald right halfback. Roof ------------------------------ Camp fullback. SCORE BY PERIODS. Union -------·---------10 0 0 10-20 Worcester Tech ------ 0 0 0 0- 0 SUMMARY. Score-Union, 20; Worcester Tech., 0. Touchdowns-Downs, 2. Goals from touch- downs-Hokerk, Downs. Goals from place- ment-Girling, 2. Substitutions-Union: Byron for Girling; Stoller for Roof; Friday for Downs; Gardner for Price; Roof for Stoller; Girling for Rosecrans; Downs for Friday; Houghton for Beaver; Rosecrans for Byron; Beaver for Houghton; Girling for Stoller; Rockwell for Wood. W orces- · ter Tech.-Stone for Tomasi; Tomasi for Stone ; Kalagher for Storrs ; Storrs for J(alagher; Bannan for Merriam; Merriam for Bannan; Weitzen for Dunbar; Dunbar for W eitzen; Tullock for Archibald; Dun- bar for Archibald ; Stone for· Camp; Camp for Stone. Referee-Williams of Oberlin. Umpire-Draper of Williams. Head lines- man-Grout of Union. Time of quarters -Twelve minutes. DR. BERG LECTURES TO A. I. E. E. Dr. Ernest J. Berg read a paper before the American Institute o£ Electrical Engi- neers at the Edison Club. The subject of the paper was \Differential Equations Used in the Solution of Transient Phenomena.\ The meeting was largely attended anJ the audience had the pleasure of listening to one of the best papers ever read before the institute. The paper dealt with the differe~tial equations which are of importance in solv- ing transient electrical phenomena. The solution of almost all simple transients in inductive circuits demands an understand- ·, .. , ·. . .. , ) ··: ;. ! \ · .. ' .

. 0 b.., 0. lace- . for for . for for E. . of the . tn . \' 1 \'. ···' ;. ! \ · .. \ ; : THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 ing of Linear differen~ia1 eq~ations of ~he first order,. Problems tnvolvtng mutual tn- d uction and capacity as a rule lead to Linear differential equations of the second or higher order. FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES TO BATTLE HARD IN ELECTION DAY CONTESTS. Election Day will be a time of great ath- letic activity between the sophomore and freshman classes. One hundred points will be divided towards the deciding of the under-class supremacy. The track events will begin at two o'clock. Following is the order of events and the number of points allowed for each: 100 yard dash, 5, 3, 1 points. Running high jump, 5, 3, 1 points. 12 pound shot put, 5, 3, 1, points. One mile run, 5, 3, 1 points. Running broad jump, 5, 3, 1 points . Relay, 10 points. Tug of war, 20 points. Time of tug of war is to be three minutes. There will be ten men on a side, all 'varsity and class football and track men being barred. No spiked or cleate·d shoes will be permitted those in the tug of war. 'Varsity and class football men are eligible for track events upon approval of the coaches. All entries for track events must be handed in by team captains to Dr. McComber not later than Saturday, October 31. The freshmen have a large number out for track. The material is very good, in- cluding: Mudge, Moynihan, Isham, Rock- well, Y ounie, King, Newman, Totto, Lan- dry, Potter, Haag, Clarke, Pearslee, Halen- beck, Esptein, Mosher, Akins, McKenna, Frasier, Hay, Kennedy, Carter, Smith, Hance and Taylor. The sophomore squad is not so numerous but it is believed to be very promising. A partial list includes: Peterson, Miller, Mor- rison, Vianna, Moore, Gendrv and Wallace. The last of the series of f;eshman-sopho- more football games wiU take place after the track meet. AH 'varsity men are barred from this, but five points will be given to each class for each man it has on the 'var- sity squad. The number of freshmen and sophomores on the squad happens to he equal, so neither class will gain by this. Both classes have a large bunch out. The line up of the teatns wiH probably be the san1e as in the other gam·es with perhaps slight changes. 'These are the most of the likely freshmen: Brown, ,Chapleau, McGill, Collins, Calkins, Y arden, Osterhaus, Towne, Rogers, Johnson, Riley, Mudge, Madden, Beckett, Taylor, Darlin and Landry. The probable list of sophomores follows: Mann, Northrup., Sammons, Miller, Kooman, Ilaubner, Galbraith, N aylon, Jamieson, Bahret, Quirie, A. I-Iam, Tregurtha and Streeter. As the other football games, this will count twenty-five points. Even more inter- est will be centered in it than if it were the deciding game of the series, since the fresh- men will try to win at least one game of the series, whereas the sophomores will try equally hard to shut the freshmen out completely. THE COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. The Cosmopolitan Club is meeting every other Monday evening. At each meeting the club is addressed by some interesting speaker. Refreshments add to the enjoy- ment of each meeting. The club has moved from its old rooms in South College to the first floor and con- templates moving later into the old rooms of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity when that organization moves to its new chapter house. A large number of freshmen have joined the club this year, representing a number of foreign countries in the east and in South America. At one of the recent meetings Prof. Atkin- son delivered a very interesting and instruc- tive address on the European situation.

I I ' I I ' : 12 THE CONCORDIENS.YS You can't estimate a man's. bravery by hearing him rave at the telephone. THE LAVOLTA OF THE DAMNED. (Dance of the Demons.) Have you ever gone at midnight 'ro the Castle of Cimmera-gone alone, Quite alone, On a murky, moonless midnight? For you must go there at midnight And alone; If you wish to feel the terror, The delightful, griping terror Only felt when you're alone, There alone. If you wish to see the dance, That the damned demon's dance- Go alone! When you hear a tocsin ringing, And an iku lizard singing To a moan--be alone! And from out the doors that open (you will shudder as they open With a groan!) j -.' There will rush with purple lanters- Ah, those ghostly purple lanterns made of bone- All the glaring staring spirits, All the doomed, Tartare an spirits Rush frotn out the doors that open With a moan. As each demon lays reclining In his partner's arms entwining- Arms that creak,. ,.fheir lavolta they. start dancing In a leaping and a prancing, As they shriek; With an anapaestic sound Grimfeet rattle on the ground- Feet that squeak; And their purple lanterns swinging Show their forms together clinging, While they shriek. Should your courage then forsake you, And a tremor overtake you While alone, Do not trust yourseif to waiting lVIidst the dismal shrieks and sounds of grat- . tng Bone; For there's madness preying there In that murky, midnight air Filled with moan ; 'Tis a madness that will seize you; In its clutches it will squeeze you, 'Til the heart within your bosom turns to stone. W. M. M., '18. MUNSTERBERG QUITS TO SAVE HARVARD'S MILLIONS. Famed Educator Resigns When Would-Be Beneficiary Denounces Pro-German Dogma. Professor Hugo Munsterberg, noted Har- vard professor and exchange professor at Berlin, resigned from the faculty of Har- vard VVednesday. His resignation followed a threat by Major Clarence VViener of London that he would withhold a bequest of $10,000,000 to Har- vard unless Professor M unsterberg was dis- missed. He cited Munsterberg's widely printed pro-German writings since the out- break of the war as his reason. Professor M unsterberg' s resignation was entirely voluntary. Professor M unsterberg delivered the Ichabod Spencer series of lectures on psy- chology here at Union three years ago. He is considered one of the world's greatest living psychologists. Don't forget to wear an arm band to Troy. If you have a thought that will stand printing-send it to the Concordy~ . ,;)· .... ' i . l ' ' ~ I • I _,· i. .. I ~::

, to at . the He to . ,;)· . l ' ' ~ I ' I ·_.,, THE CON·CORDIENSIS 13 SOPHS. AGAIN VICTORIOUS ON GRIDIRON. Freshman Fight Hard But Lose Second Game. Last Friday the second game of the under-class football series was played. The sophomores won by a score of 7 to 0. Good \vea ther and a fine :fie1d made the playing faster than in the :first game. Both teams showed better form and more fight. Strangely enough, the second game began as did the :first. The sophotnores by end runs and a forward pass, pushed the pigskin over the goal line in the first few minutes · of play. Unfortunately for the spohomores one of their men was· off-side. The ball went to the freshmen who worked it down the field by straight football. They soon lost the ball and thereafter the two teams fought up and down the field, without great- ly endangering either goal. In the third quarter the sophomores had the advantage. Miller after several short gains, made a long end run and carried the ball to the five yard line before being down- ed. Again one of the 1917 players was off- side, so the run was lost. However before the whistle blew at the end of the third quarter, they had worked the ball down to the five yard line again. In the fourth quarter, Miller carried the ball four yards in the first down. Haubner covered the remaining yard and set the ball just over the line, by a plunge through tackle. Galbraith kicked the goal. The freshmen then rallied. Mudge a11d Beckett made big gains continually, but they were lost again through unsuccessful forward passes. On each pass a '17 man caught the ball but the team was unable to make t~e dovvns. Finally the sophomores, by vtrtue of superior weight worked the ball down to the ten yard line, but were unable to break through the freshm.en defense for another touchdown before the whistle blew . The freshmen deserve no little credit for holding down to a small score, a team of heavier and for the most part, more exper- ienced men. Mudge and Beckett of the 1918 team played especially weH while the sopho- more stars were Miller and Galbraith. The sophomore Hn.e-up remained the same throughout the game, but an unusual num- ber of substitutions vvas made by the fresh- men. The line up follows : SOPHOMORES ( 7) FRESHMEN (0) Sammons ------------------------ Brown left end. Jamieson--------------------------- left tackle. Bahret -------------------------- Landry left guard. Emmerling ---------------------- Calkins center. Eldred -------------------------- Collins right guard. ~ann -------------------------- 1{ordon right tackle. Northrup --------------------- Osterhaus right end. I1aubner ----------------------- Johnson quarterback . Naylon ------------------------ Madden left halfback. Miller --------------------------- Mudge right halfback. Galbraith ----------------------- Beckett fullback. DOINGS OF THE CLASSICAL CLUB. At the meeting of the Classical Club held Tuesday evening, October 20, Austin G. Martin, '15, entertained a good audience with an excellent paper on \Pastoral Poetry.\ The club greatly appreciated Mr. Martin's efforts. The next meeting of the club will be held November 17. HEADLINE IN LOCAL PAPER. To let-Watervliet. t ---

. I 14 THE C·ONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. D'elchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. TO THE FRESHMEN. In the words of the immortal Cicero, \When will you cease to abuse our pati- ence?\ When will you learn \Alma Mater?\ When will you learn to greet upper-class- men and sophomores first when meeting them on the campus or on the street? When will you cj.ecide to remain seated in chapel until the three other classes have passed out? When will you learn various and sundry other things which make you become known as model freshmen? Some of you do these things, but sad to say, this some is decidedly a minority. A month and a half has elapsed since you became a part of Union College and to every man in your class who does not, by now, kno·vv· Alma Mater there should be a feeling of the direst shame. And yet we feel confident that eighty per cent. of your class is wanting in this respect. Get busy, freshmen, and learn, not only that song but all the others as well. Concerning the seventh rule of the \Col- lege Rules and Custom~s,\ what is the rea- son for so many complaints by the upper- classmen of inattention in the exchange of greetings shown by the members of the class of 1918? The reason for it is that the class of 1918, as a whole, doesn't care. You are big in numbers, rather good as classes go in ap- pearance, perfectly able in your own esti- mation to take care of yourselves, so why show any undue respect to upper-classmen? Well now, we know you're a fairly good class and all that but we would advise you to forget that fact if it is going to tend to make you hold your heads up in a manner so unbecoming to those who wear the green cap. The upper-classmen have a right to your respect and to your courtesies. Give them what they have a right to, or expect hereafter to hear from .u.s in stronger terms. You are now on the bottom round of the ladder. In this position it is best for you to do what you're told to do. Next year, you will be a step higher and may do what you can. Thereafter, if you. have learned your lesson well, you will know enough to do the right thing. For the present, let us remind you lest you forget, the upper-classmen want to see a little more of the real spirit in the freshman class. Get busy and show it to them. I. ,' ' .· . I ·, (i :\': \ ll I i \ 1 ;II : ~ j I

ould yet of Get that Col- rea- of of big ap- N\hy ood to to een to . to to .',• I i \ . i' \;. : i I,\ \' •· j. ~ \ I . I ·. l j I THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 ON TO TROY . Second Spasm. Those who savv Saturday's game saw a marvelous exhibition of team work and steady, consistent fighting. A cleaner game was never witnessed and, with all due re- spect to the old timers, we honestly believe there was never a Garnet team with more ''pep\ than the present one possesses. What does this go to show? Why, simply that there is going to be a mighty good game in Troy this Saturday and that every man should plan to make this trip if pos- sible. The Terrace Council is making plans to have the proper accomodations for trans- portation and every one should look forward to a good time. This is another reason why every man should go. But the larger and deeper reason is neither of these. The real reason why every man of us should go is on account of the service which we can render to this team of ours which has been rendering, is rendering, and will continue to render to us such marked service on the gridiron. Let us go over and help that team win. Let us cheer and cheer and cheer until those men who :fight on the gridiron for Union's fair name will feel our voices vibrating in their very muscles, helping them to fight for that game which means so much to every one of us. Hence, make ready your voices ye \men of much or little wind, get an arm band, a pleasant smile and a determined mind, then take up our slogan-On to Troy. WITH OTHER COLLEGES. Brown University held exercises on October 11-15 to celebrate the one hun- dred and fiftieth anniversary of their found- in g. Justice Charles E. Hughes was one of the speakers. The Williams freshmen were recently vic- torious over the sophomores in their annual tug-of-war. t-fhis is an acquatic event, the object being to drag the adversaries through a small stream. Hamilton College has a new band, con- sisting of twelve pieces. Just about three years behind Union, but trying hard to catch up. Rutgers have set on foot a plan to pledge no freshmen to fraternities before Thanks- gtvtng. Colgate has been having outdoor base- ball practice during the past fine fall days. Cross-country practice has started at Har- vard with poor prospects for the year. Several fraternities at Amherst have de- cided not to initiate a freshman whose class work was unsatisfactory up to the time of initiation. FRESHMEN PEERADE. At the college meeting on the 19th the freshmen peerade was announced for the I-Iamilton game. Foster Brown was appoint- ed chairman with Zimmer and Scully as his assistants. A sub-committee has been ap- pointed by the committee, with one man from each fraternity and the Pyramid Club. The members of this committee are Church ... ill, Dikeman, DeRouville, Hooper, K. Han- son, Stevens, Santee, Ketchum, Baldauf, and Creble. These men will look after the arrangements in their own houses while the committee of three will have entire financial charge, and arrangements in full. The com- mittee intends to break away from the idea of the usual peerade and produce a new idea, the arrangements of which will be an- nounced later. At the college meeting on 1\ionday a tax of 75 cents on freshmen and 20 cents on the three other classes was levied. The fellows are urged to pay their class treasuries so that the commi\tee may not have anything to hinder their arrangements.

'I' 1 \ :\ ·]: I I : • ·' I i l l I l I j Jj ilj i ~~~~ l' I 16 1HE CONC,ORDIENiSIS FRESHMAN FABLES. Number four. \Dear Papa,\ wrote Ira, \I didn't go out for Mr. Richmond's football team after all. The fellows thought I was not made for football, but the two debating teams have tne down for coming speeches and I guess I'll be active in prize-speaking in the future. \College is fine. They turned the heat on and then it got warm right away, but Mr. De·wey said that if the heat was turned off again, it would get cold again, and he didn't want to have the fellows suffer as it interfered with their studies and he believes in putting :first things first. \I'll tell you about my lessons. First of all.in the morning we all go to chapel where son1ebody gets up in the pulpit and sings and the rest hold their books open and listen. It sounds fine too. Then comes English. We are learning the difference between argumentation and narration and osi:fica- tion and carryna tion. Argumentation . is first cousin to naration but ossification and carrynation are diametrically opposed., Miss Pim back at the district school never taught us anything like that, but it's fine just the same. Then every week we have themes to write. Each week we have a .choice of subject. The choice is (1) Why I came to College and (2) Why I Came to College. Then some times we can write on Why I Came to College. \Some time I'll take an afternoon off and tell you why. \Then after that we all go off to our frat houses and take courses in how to roll cigar- ettes. This is optional you know. By this time the mail has come in and we all talk to Uncle and tell him how terrible the mail service is, and he stops quite a while and explains to us very kindly just how theN ew York mail was an hour late and he had to deliver five hundred invitations for the K. of C. sociable before he reached the college grounds. Then he tells us how he always delivers Mr. Richmond's mail first because that's very important and Mr. Richmond meets him at the front door and takes the applications for degrees out first and then answers them and lets Uncle take them on with him to mail. Then comes Mr. Dewey's office. He's always there, too, and he opens all the money orders and the 'cheques and U nc.le helps to file them away and write the receipts and then Uncle takes those along, too. So you see that by the time Uncle does all this and explains it all at each house on the way, it takes some time. And by the time he's through explaining you wonder how he does it without qualifying for the Olympic games. . · After that we all go to various classes and learn about all sorts of things and each professor insists that two and three-quarter hours be spent on each recitation and that's why so many fellows take post-graduate courses-to get caught up on back work. I think I shall have to stay about ten years already. But it's a nice, comfortable spot and post graduates don't have to make chapel, so I can settle down here and build a house on the campus for-me and Liza Ann (when she's ready to marry me) and make classes very comfortably all my life. There's nothing (so they tell me) like having some definite profession decided upon before you leave college. So I think that's what I'll do-either that or White Slavery for they tell me there's lots of money in that now- adays. \\Your devoted College Boy, \IRA.\ \P. S.-You'd better not send on those red flannel you-knows after alL The heat's turned on and it's so hot that even the outdoors gets warmed up from it.\ Y. M. C. A. NOTES. The Rev. R. C. Penney, of Schenectady, spoke at vesper services Sunday afternoon on \The Price of Knowledge.\ Mr. Penney c •, '~ - ; \\\

use the on pens and the on the the pot me I'll I l. I '·,'• r- .. · .. r )~ .. c <' •, '~-· -; ~ ,,·. J ~:· ·;- :!:· , I·· ' , I . f I 1 \ ·~ ~ ~.· THE OONCORDIENSIS 17 emphasized the obligation. college men owe both to the college and to those who are providing for their educat~on. . Imme~se sums 0 £ money are invested 1n college butld- ings, ground?, and appara~us; the great 1 najority of students are be1ng educated by the fruit of other's labor, and by other's self- denial and sacrifice. It is therefore the stud- ent's duty to repay this outlay and sacrifice made for him by college authorities and rela- tives by devoting himself to the best things his college career offers. The speaker illus- trated his remarks with apt references to cases which had come within his own knowi- edge. Secretary Chapman announces that classes \\rill soon be started in Bible study and in- dustrial work. The Y. 1\L C .. A. officers desire the so- cieties and organizations using Siliman Hall to leave the rooms in the same condition upon leaving as they found them upon en- tering. They feel that they are entitled to such co-operation from the student body in the care and maintenance of the building. HER EYES. 0 maiden, laugh when I am near ! Thy laughter is a music; 0 maiden, talk when I am near; Thy every word is music; And let thy voice in dreamy lay To heaven sweetly rise : But maiden-do not glance my way, I dare not feel thine eyes ! 0 maiden, let me with thee walk Beside some moon-lit stream, Where the ripples dance and bleam; I love thee near to hear thee talk ; I drink thy words in sighs; Yet maiden fair, I do not dare To feel thine eyes! W. M. M., '18. A PROBLEM. A farmer gave to one of his sons 10 dozen eggs, to a second he gave 30 dozen, and to a third fifty dozen. ''Go to the city,\ my sons,\ he said, \and each of you sell your eggs at the same price. When you return each must bring back the same amount o£ money and none may be spent in the city.\ How were the eggs disposed of? The <;tbove problem is absolutely straight and above board. For tP,e correct answer the editor of the Concordensis will auto- matically become endebted to the mathe- matician to an extent to be announced in the near future. Answers will be publish- ed in our next issue. CLASSIFIED ADS. Lost-On the cheering bleachers of the R. C. Alexander field, Saturday, October 24, by various under-graduates of Union College, the respect of various students and alumni sitting near them. Finder will please return same, as respect is something in which some of these individuals are already badly in need. Found-On the cheering bleachers of the R. C. Alexander field, Saturday, October 24, by several under-graduates and alumni of Union College, various under-graduates of the sorehead type who delighted in pick- ing flaws in the actions of one or more players of the Union College team on ac- count of some personal feeling which evid- ently existed between said under-graduates and aforementioned player or players, there- by showing a lack of spirit which is de- plorable, a form of jealousy which is odor- ously rotten and a form of soreheadedness which is highly damnable, to say the least. Wanted-Those members of the under- graduate body of Union College who, for any personal or other reason, feel inclined to knock any player on the Garnet team, to ~. know that the best place to· do this is in

18 THE CQN,CORDIEN5IS the privacy of one's own voom, alone and with locked doors, withholding the sound of one's voice from the rest of the world. By voicing such sentiments publicly on the cheering bleachers a student brands him- self with the sign of disloyalty and demon- strates without question that he is either a sorehead or an idiot. \Harry you have my sympathy, old man!''' \What's the trouble?\ \Why I heard your wife eloped with the chauffeur.\ \Oh I got another one.\ uw· :h t \f ?\ a , w1 e. \No chauffeur !\ FROM OUR WAR CORRESPONDEN'l'. News From the Rear. St. Petersburg alias Petrograde, October 1..-In all probability there is a big fight over here somewhere, but it's hard to find out just where it is or what it's about. Cities are having their names change'.~ every day which goes to show that the map of Europe will be greatly altered be- fore the war is over. Preymysl (pronounced Hmpsngte) is said to be in great danger of such matrimonial action. Have heard that there are many bums about the streets of some of these ill-fated cities, but think there are probably as many in my own home town of Newburgh, or rather Newesgrade, to be entirely neutral. While passing through the streets of Phsneuky (pro- nounced Tzknasu) I encountered a shower of shells. .Upon investigating, I found them to be peanut shells, but since birds of a feather flock together I decided tha-t, for the sake of the publication which I represent, I had better be on the safe side ' hence I produced, from my pocket, the red cross tag which was wished on me tag-day in Schenectady and ~allied bravely forth. If this doesn't pass censorship, let me kno\v and I'll change it. W. C. RIFLE SHOOTING AS A COLLEGE SP'ORT. .A Communication from the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice. Over five thousand coHege marksmen is the record for the college year ending June 30th, 1914. Through the combined efforts of the National Rifle Association of America and the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice, rapid strides are being ma:de looking to the introduction of rifle shooting as one of the recognized sports in the colleges throughout the country and the movement has been still further stim- ulated by a recent act of Congress author- izing the free issue of rifles and amm uni- tion to college and university rifle clubs. This work was begun several years ago by the National· Rifle Association, backed by the War Department with a result that at the present time there are 42 colleges and universities having well organized and active rifle clubs. National championships are now being carried on annually both in- door and outdoor. The annual competition for college teams is now being organized for the indoor season. These matches are shot on indoor ranges with 22-calibre rifles. The championship for 1914 was won by the Michigan \Aggies\ and the outdoor cham- pionship was won by the Mass. \Aggies.'' As an evidence of the fact that the ath- letic authorities of a great many colleges and universities, are recognizing marksman- ship as a part of their athletic curriculum ' many of them are giving the college letter to those students who make the rifle teams. A feature of this work which is worthy of mention is the fact that there have been no serious accidents of any kind on rifle ranges since the work was introduced a . ' cla1m that could hardly hold good in con- nection with other prominent school sports, such as football and baseball. Furthermore , only a small percentage of students can tak· wh1 the to 1 I: oth . g.lV4 peti De< met ~ . - i fyir mal sho fied 191· clul nnn sotc: 9·6 w .' ., peri . ;·.~ ... .A .. :' c~~ stuc sho . ! trai ' stu< ·\' ~ • ·t· sho ':, tion \ sen1 corr. ~'-:· ent The ,'~~ whc ,,,; · .. ' \>tt of ( \( ,~ Uni 1.): ,, I ;;l The r t·\ ~· .\ 1 foil< ji::·ii'l. ··;~ t ·;§tl B '' rt.r·!' {'I ' \:;_(. ·-~ '• i''f Uni ·. ·.~ Lud ·~. ' t I •I of ~ .. . 'I Hac Ir l. of s· ret a Am4 ., ·,. Wa: > ; ~ '• '

~ . - i . ;·.~ . ,,, '! i .. ·\' ~ • ·t· ':,' l' THE CON·CORDIENSIS 19 take part in baseball and football matches, while the number of students who can enter the shooting competitions is only limited to the capacity of the range. In aclciliition to competing against each other in rifle matches, college clubs are given annually a medal for a members' com- petition, by the National Rifle Association. Decorations are also persented to club members by the \V ar Department for quali- fying as expert, sharpshooter and marks- man. The college which made the best showing in the number of students quali- fied for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1914, was Cornell .University. The rifle club which made the best ~howing in the nnmber of qualifications was the Minne- sota University Rifle Club, which qualified 9·6 marksmen, 11 sharpshooters and 19 ex- perts . At the camps of instruction for college students held during the summer, rifle shooting was one of the courses of military training 1~aid down. At these camps 31 students qualified as experts, 114 as sharp- shooters and 219 as marksmen. The Na- tional Rifle Association of America pre- sented a cup for an intercollegiate team con1petition and also a medal for the stud- ent making the highest score at each camp. The cup was won by Cornell U ni versi ty whose four men scored 854. The University of California was second with 809 and the University of Minnesota third with 782. The higlt gcore men in each camp were as follows: Burlington, H. C. Newberry of Colgate- University; Asheville, Wm. W. Search; Ludington, Theron G. Bthven, Universitv of Minnesota; and Presidio of Monterey, Hacourt Blades, University of California. Information concerning the organization of such clubs may be secured from the sec-' retary of the National Rifle Association of America, 1108-9-10 Woodward Building, W ashin.gton, D. C. ELECTRICAL LABORATORY NEWS. A few interesting improvements have been made about the Electrical Department this summer, in spite of the fact that it was already very well equipped. A new fifteen K. W. set, consisti.ng of an Edison Bipolar motor and a self-exciting alternating cur- rent generator, has been installed, and sev- eral new instruments have been added to the main laboratory, while the graduate de- partment in the basement of Washburn Hall has been improved by the addition of sev- eral induction motors and two small direct current generators. This branch of the work has- sixteen ne\v men this year, some of them coming from such universities as Lehigh, Rochester, Princeton, Illinois and Cornell ; others from various other institutions. The increased number of students has made it necessary to add several new black- boards and chairs to the recitation rooms and the Electrical Engineering library has been moved to the balcony of the main library, the additional space thus gained be- ing turned into an office for Mr. Vedder. The wireless department, which has been open throughout the summer, has \picked up\ a good deal of war news. The outfit has also been used for experimental work, Mr. White of the General Electric Company, having experimented with his audion de- tector. EXCERPTS FROM THE REVISED CLASSICAL (?) DICTIONARY. Advanced Algebra-A determined de- termination to determine the determinant. Free hand drawing-That method of ob- taining a straight line in half an hour that could have been drawn with a ruler in half -a minute. Formula-An apology for the writing on the Egyptian pyramids, English letters serv- f ing the purpose of hieroglyphics. These

I' I ( '' 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS animals may be tound scattered throughout the pages of any mathematical treatise. Their general habitat, however, is at the rear uf such books, collected in a bunch, as it were. Thesis-·The sine qua non of the senior engineer. Titles vary from uDuties of a Lineman on a Wireless Telegraph System,'' to \A New Composition for the Cementing of Holes in Swiss Cheese.\ Chemistry-··· The science by which foul odors and suffocating gases are produced. Experiment-The favorite indoor sport of a devotee of the above. Example: You take a test tube, place therein some bichloride of eucalyptus, some distilled essence of Coco- Cola, a few clothes pins and other inciden- tals. Allow it to evaporate five hours. If the mixture turns a cerise hue you know that you are all wrong and must begin over . agatn. Transit-A degenerate form of the sacri- ficial tripod. It is usually found on the shoulders of sophomore engineers. Through it an apathetic barber pole is viewed, where- as, if the pole were a decent size, no spy- glass would be necessary. Greek-A language whose letters form very convenient symbols for formulae and fraternity names. It is said that a certain Homer made extensive use of this language. Classical Club, ? Academic (according to engineer)-A person whose sole occupation in life is to gaze through bone spectacles. Engineer (according to Academic)-An individual whose neck is encased with the proverbial sand-paper collars. A. M. J., '16. IN LOGIC. H o:ffy : \What does create men?\ Ready--- With-the-Mitt Jacobs: \Create means to make or raise a disturbance.\ Hoffy: \Give example.\ Jacobs: \God created man.'' HOW TO RID YOUR HOUSE OF RATS. · ·c·o ED* BY ... - . In aU cases it is best to hire a rat ex- pert. A broad-minded man of the B. S. course will do in a pinch. Provide said rat engineer with a tub of water, about a hun- dred bricks, a tack hammer, a pair of scis- sors and a ball of twine. The engineer will clear out the largest room in the house and will move his paraphernalia thence. Then he will ask that you bring in your rats, which you will of course do. Then the doors are closed and the windows locked .. The process which goes on behind these closed doors mystifies you greatly if you happen to be upon the outside. We have the inside dope on the matter and here 't is: The rat engineer first gets busy with his hammer-stunning one rat at a tin1e. Then he ties pieces of twine around the necks of afore-mentioned stunned rats and attaching a brick to each one places them in the tub of dihydrogen oxide. If one of the beasts tries to hold on to the side of the tub with his tail, said piece of apparatus is immediately clipped off with the scissors which are kept always in readiness. Pretty simple, eh? *Co.-Ed. means Comic Editor. IN LONDON. \'Willie asked the teacher, \who was George Washington?\ \An American General, Ma'am.\ \'Quite right, and can you tell us what he was remarkable for?\ \Yes ma'am,\ replied the little boy, \he was remarkable because he was an Ameri- can and told the truth.\-Tit Bits. First Stude: \Doh Ruane's trying to sell his silk hat.\ Second Stewed: 11 Yes, I know. I'd buy it, too, but I hate to break this dollar bill.\

If 10u want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. -IF- You feel that a custom tailor is the only man that can put true distinction into your garments-you are laboring under the wrong impression. If you think that a custom tailor is the only man that can give you an exclusive pattern and weave-once again you're wrong. And if you think that a custom tailor can give you nearly as much value as \Steefel's\ can-we're afraid you\re wrong again. If your thoughts run in the above channel, drop in and see us-and we'll put you right. Suits and Overcpats $10 to $60. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WAL.L PAPER .AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE-PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2 to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 YOUNG MEN! • Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan store like Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below th~·. Brld&\e.

I ' 1: , I' I: ! ; j i l f i; II I r ll 1/ i' I l I I I l More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 F,OR YOUR DEN , Beau:tiful College Pennants 5 There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in • ----------...,...--------- Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. N ott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. SCHWARTZ N~EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies · and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full • Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET. A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the Lowest Cash Prices. QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE ED, THE BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store I. LEVINE Merchant Tailor, 107 Jay Street. Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. Favored by the College Boys. • ·,I 1'•> · ... ··:: ·~~-. : . . ':~~ : 1!: . .l '-·~: :~~. ·.\-.1. ,•;'; ~),' .:~i' ~r~. :~ '$ ,f j l ·~ ':1 •' F,, . ' . ~ . ;':. t (

:, ,' 1'•> · ... ··:: ·~~~ > ·? :' '!tJ· ~l .• :1.' ' -·\~: :~~. ·.\-.1. •\1 ~'1' .:f:J' ~r:.. ·.;~ '$ ;t·~ f., > ' ' ,: ' •, :· ~ \ ...; '' F., .' I Bellinger Paint Co .. PAI:N'TS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. ' '> When the leaves Begin to fall Walk-Over Shoes Are Best of all. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A R Z • ., . Q h furnished music at Union College 1905 > • •• • Ita s rc > estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'IO, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World ~~~·tt~~!:~!:!~~e~ 48 ~:e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College 'Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NA TlONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. Wirth, Union '18 Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A.GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compo:unded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620·W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Teated and Glnsea Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

},f' I\ I I ~ ~· I I f l t i l ' • 1 f : f ! ~ ·: ! . I i •,' i ·! I >, I ..ij 'I' \ ·~ I . ,. ) . I ~ . I \ l! ! I I ~ ~, I 1 ' ~ ! t i .j' i i ;f t I i ~ I lU.U:U.lll.·ll llli.IJIIIIIll fill rllllllllllllllll I·I·IJ·fi(IIIUI Ullll fl Jl llllllflllll rrn llffllll fllUlllllllillfiUU111Ulllllllifl·llfl II Ulllllllll-l ~ American Clubmen Prefer ''Bull'' Durham Hand-made Cigarettes These wealthy men are usecl to the best of everything, and are good judges of quality. They find the cigarettes they make for themselves, from •• Bull•' Durham tobacco, have a delightfully fresh, mild, unique fragrance and flavor that afford the greatest enjoYJDent and satisfaction. At all times it is correct and fashiomable to ••Roll Your Own.\ GENUINE .. BULL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO Made from absolutely the fi:nest, choicest, mellow-ripe leaf grown in the famous \bright .. tobacco district of Vir- ginia-North Carolina, that supplies the world with cigarette tobacco. Much of the delicate flavor and fragrance of this leaf escapes from the ready-made cigarette. These rare quali- ties can only be retained in the bulk of tobacco in the \Bull\ Durham sack, and enjoyed in the /re3h-rolled \Bull\ Durham cigarette. A.lc £or cr FREE book o£ • • paper•, • with fiACh Sc •ack. FR EE - - -- -·- -· ----·· An Illustrated Book· let, showir.g correct wax to ''Roll Your Own • Cigarettes, aEtd a Book of cigarette paper• will both be mailed .to :you, /ree. on eostal request. Address 'Bull'' Durham, Dur• ham, N.C., Room 1298. THE AMF.RICA.N TOBACCO COMPANY llliiiiU lllllllllllliJUJif II II UIUIIIJ 1111 ·- E ( 7. 2 1

; ,. l . -------------------·------------~---------------------------------1 THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which wiH stay by him until he is a Senior cam. be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND C'L.INTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special M-eal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. 43 FELLOWS can write 24 LETIERS By purchasing our embossed statio-nery at 2Sc PER BOX The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason .B11ilding :E \On your way to the post office~' ' . . . . ·. ·H·E MOHICAf~· COMPANY .. ' • .. • 4. ... _-\\' . . ·- ... . ~ ·_ \\:' ;.. ; :- ·~ ·.- - . L. V. Herrin~ton Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Some of the Fellows won on the Athletics Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Some of the Fellows won on the !Braves But all of the Fellows win on That is Rdig 0 ht, RT~aionable WATERS an n 1me Schenectady Art Press \The Right Tailor with the Right Prices\ J. H. Como, Prop. 206 So. Centre St. · 2 doors from State Blillium 1Kirkpatrirk MEN'S SHOP 132-134 Fulton St. New York City Of course we do CLEANING and Press- ing. Let us call for your VIIUk. 463 STATE St. up Stairs SCHENECllDY, N~ Y. TELEPHONE 1441~

I I ! ! i ! . i I l ! i . I I I I l I I I Portraits .;1-·JI, Your Inspection of our Product Cordiall'y ):nvited THe &TVDIO OP ~fllll!ll........-- 241 STAT£ STRE£,. OVER ·P.ATTO·N & HALL l~e OAK Barber Sbop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. Just Right THE SHOE OF A GENTLEMAN 84.50 TO 87.00 Metropolitan Styles JIP Expert Fittings Geissler & Ryan NEAR STATE ON JAY. P. J:.- KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes THE LEWIS DINNING ROOM Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit pertectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Jobnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 154 BARRETT ST., near State Meals, Table de Hote Breakfast 6:00 A. M. Luncheon 11:30 A. M. Dinner 5:00 P. M. Sunday BreakfBst 8:00 A. M. Dinner 12:00 M. Single Meals 30c Sunday Dinner SOc 20 MEAL CARD $5.00 Home cooked meals prepared of the best of things to eat, cooked and served in a clean and J sanitary manner. Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street 'J Rc 1 I 1 s 1 -

I ; ',·; ,, ' ' l ,•' Stoll's Ho/hrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, 'Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL EN'TERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Tel'ephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. United Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at , less than \Ready-Made'\' Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. H. J. SCHWARTZ, Manager. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. WHEN IT RAINS , IN A HURRY , OUT FOR PLEASURE :Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP QUALITY LAUNDRY 719 STATE STREET, 'Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. QUALITY AND SATISFACTION combined makes clear the reason why SPALD- . lNG'S are outfitters to champions whose irn- . plements must be invariably right. The Spald- ing Trade Mark represents years of leadership in the manufacture of athletic equipment. A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pau ng lOS. 520 Sth Ave., New Y tlrk Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N.Y .. · 841 Union St. Phone 2540 C. A. Whelan & Co. MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch 154 <;HOCOLA TE PlE WITH WHlPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY . .. Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Offi(je

I I I I 'i I . I I ' ' : ' ' l ~ I . ' ' ' i f I ~ I i : i I i ' ' : •, I : i ' ' ' ' ! j I t ! ' : .. i : ' : s & Good Clothes SAY MEN: '!/ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells .. the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. .. The ColleQe Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady •\'fiif\· Art Pres&

