·AUVU811 3931103 NOINO The . CONCORDIENS -- . .. . Published by the Stu4,rits of Union College. Vol. XXXVII · . Janl1ary 15th,~19l4 No.lO ' Anqt@~r··:·,Championship Season Opened . . .. . .... ·• .. ·: :t .•.. , .. · .·. ·. . ..... . .. . . .• .,. . .,,_ .. '~- . ,, •' . • . . ~ : .· :: :~ ._::~~~.::''-·:·.--~:~,_;_~ : 'c -\ ' ... ' .... ... . . . -~. . . • .. ~ . ~. ·~:- _.· -~-~ <'/ ·:~<.:_::·< • I ·•, ~ • • ' , ,:::',.J . .·

j. UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMON·D, ~D .. D., LLe D ... Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : :t. Ccnarse• leading to the degree ot Ao B~ CLASSICAL CouRSF; A.-Greek is .required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Prondency in Latin is prerequisite .. 2. Co11r11e leading to the degree ot Ph. D .. LA TIN -SCIENTIF'IC CouRsE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour•e leadln&: to the der;ree ot B. s. Sci~NTIFIC CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course lending to the degree of D. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRsE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the ~iciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs front the general engineering course in substituting special work in. sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EL~CTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degree•. CouRsE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our sperial Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouBs~<: X.EA..DrNG To DEGiu;;E or M.S. E. E.-This course ,of one year of graduate study consists .of lectures, laboratory ,practice a11d research work. CouRSF. tltA:DU'lG To DEGR£F. 01! PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or ,an equivalent. For catalogttes or other infe>rmation address F. C. :BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEP AR'rl\IENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recita ti()ns, clinics, lal;,oratory workp prac- tical demonstrati<>ns and operations. Hospital and. laboratory adv-u1tages excellent. Catalogues a11d circulars containing full informa\' tion sent on apJ>lication to: WII.I.IS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albanyg N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J, PAIH<E:E, J ... N~wToN Fn:ao, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW St;H OOL-'This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to· tl1e degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided. into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation f~e, $xo; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other in formation, address: J Oli:N C. WATSON, Registrar, Albanys N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instrttction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per t~rm. For catalogue giving full inf()rmation, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED~ Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. • •Everytll.ing for tbe College Mall except Exams\ GUNNING'16 SWEATERS, ~A~KINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Ha-ll Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \C()NCORDY'\ , I''· .. , ·' i. :' I. \\ { \ . \ .,

w , I''· I ·' i, ' I :- ~ }~ t,·· ·J.} . I. \\ ') \ ' \ ., ·, '·· ' '· ,;;~ .. ' ·•. ·l I .,, .r :! \ \ I ' ; '' ~~: r~; l\ 1·1,\ ~ ,, THE CON·CORDIEN·SIS UJ~t i;amptnn Alhunv THE LAR'GEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pai,amas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi· tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N .. Y· ESTABLISHED 1850 fR. J. W4nrn 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZ&RI

THE CONCORDlENSIS In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you're \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that ~' d. . ', · con ttton - Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of\Analyt''- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c he e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric The sooner you pay us a • • VISit that much sooner . . will you realize what clothes economy means Suits & Overcoats $10, $12.50 & $15 ' Clothes Sho2 Company 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, • New York Schenectady, N.Y. lAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \'CONCORDY'• .:.I'. _,; . . ' '~ : ~~ I . --~~ ·_ - .I ,_/ I• I t ,. . I J 'I .i ! i <I k~. t·. ', ;. . ! . I \ ~·.- ,,. ~­ •• • •• (~

.:.I'. _,;. ·. ' '~ ] i' - .I I• I t , . . I J 'I .i ! i <I ',·: '· k~. t·. •, ' J- . ! . I .. ·.- ,,_ ~­ •• • •• (~ THE CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St.,, corner· Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow' a Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow in other Shoes . M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME &t4turrttt~y Art Jress J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 18Z3·J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored .among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine ana all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate''-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 4288·W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZBRS

THE· CQN:CORDIENSIS Smart 0 ats F. W. Mullin · .. ve.rco .·· · .. · 1. F. Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mullin -AT- BABBITT'S (l)auit & <ttnmpauy Never in our :history have we prepared for,yollr ovetcoatcom· fort as we h.ave this ·season. In our magniicent stock of high grade coats will 'be iound the wonderfuL '' Fran.kel Fifteen '' whic=h have amazed tbe clothing world. These garments are considered t~-day the utmost value for $15.0(). OUR. ';ROGERS-PEET\ OVERCOATS Take the lead to day just as they always have done in the realm of the highest class clothing. These overc~ats are made to meet the demands of the most exacting dresser. The particular call ege man will be pleased witn our showing of fine coats. Babbitt & Co. 451-453' Broadway ''Afhany's Greatest Clothers'' ESTABLlS,HED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND ST A TIO·NERS . . • . . Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Faper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW lT IN THE '\CONCORDY'' ',,,I ,', t I I I ~ . j ,, I 1 ' ., '. I . I I.

I I I ~ ' j ;, •:. ',,,I ,', t .:.·.' I 1 ' ., '. I . I r !' THE CONCORDIENSIS Vi·slt Ou'r Victor P.arlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY WE;BER Cluett & S·ons A'ND PJAN,OLA. p:fANOS ONE .PRICE PIANO HOUSE 808 STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY, N. 'V SOLE DOCTORS •. ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Its the soles of the people we keep in view, For we are the doctors of boot and shoe, And we serve the living and not the desd, With the best of leather, wax,. nails and thread. We can sew on a sole, or nail it fast. And ·do a good job and make it la$t. There is nothing snide about what we can do, Doubt not our statement for work proves it true. We can give you a lift too in this lire, Not only you, but your family and wife. A great many patients come to our door, Worn out and run down beside feeling sore~ Though we don't poultice, plaster or pill, We. cure all shoes, no matter how ill. Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street Telephone 3456 HOL TZMAN'S· ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION'; for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES liJ ljl Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto ;Goods Auto Tires i!J Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 23 Storea LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 ·to $8.50 Known wherever :Gcod Shoes are worn. All styles and leathera HOLTZMAN'S UNDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectad:J 's Largest Clothierl COR. STAT·E AND WALL STS. PA.TRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS WINTER SPORTS Are now on. Are you fully equipped? A visit to ALBANY'S LEADING SPORTING GOODS STO,RE Will suggest everything necessa:ry for the exhilerating sports of this no,rthern climate. SKATES, SKA'TING SHOES, SKATING TOQUES. SNOW SHOES, SKIES, TOBOGGANS. MACKINAW COATS and SWEATERS ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK ,SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay 9y him until be is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~~RN!! 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street !: ~~g D. B. pAIGE, Siama Phi Houae NEAR BA.R NEY'S 11990078 1199113 Colleae Repreaentative Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'' ,. •', .· .:·_t ,: _;,:, <.-, ., . J' I ·, \ ' l r ·';! ~ ,. '· I .. .. ! : ·i I· .1 ,.-, ' /,'

,. •', . :',t ... : _;,:, <.-, ., . J' ' ;\ ' /,' I ·, \ ' l r ·';! ~ ,. '· I .. .. ! : ·i I· .1 ,.-, The C d . . · oncor •tensis VOL. 37 JANUARY 15, 1914 NO. lC ALLISON-FOOTE DEBATE. Adelphics and Coulter Win Prizes. The Allison-Eoote debate was held in the chapel Friday evening, December 12. The question was: ''Resolved, That the states should adopt the principle of the minimum wage for women and children employed in stores, shops, factories and by public service corporations and by the state itself.\ The affirmative was upheld by the Philomathean team, which was composed of Aaron M. Jacobs, '16; Milton H. Sternfeld, '16; Mor- gan L. Williams, '14, and Jerome D. Guth- man, '14, as alternate. The negative was upheld by James L. Fitzgerald, Raymond S. Blodgett, Donald A. Coulter (all '15), and Richard E .. Taylor, '16, as alternate. The length of speeches was nine minutes in di- rect argument and six minutes in rebuttal for all speakers. Professor McKean made a short introduc- tion, and then Thomas L. Ennis, '14, and Morris P. Schaffer, '14, assumed their seats as presiding officers for the Philomathean and A~elphic societies ;respectively. The Concordiensis has been requested not to print a full account of the argument, for there will be at least two debates more im- portant than the Allison-Foote on the same subject. The affirmative maintained that there is need for legislation, and the mini~ mum wage would meet that need because it is adequate and practical. The negative showed that such laws would increase the p~oblem of the unemployed, would be un- fair, and inexpedient. We shall say noth- ing of the rebuttal, except this: that the ex- perienced negative speakers undoubtedly had the advantage. The judges, Langdon Gibson, Robert f. Landon and Clayton J. Potter, all o£ Sche- nectady, brought in a unanimous verdict that the society prize of $50 belonged to the Adelphic Club, and that the individual prize of $50 belonged to D. A. Coulter, '15, of the same team. The audience seemed to com- mend the decision. Professor McKean said that in orte way the debate was better than last year;s-the teams clashed on the main points more often. B·ARNARD-ADELPHIC DEBATE. On Friday evening, January 16, at g o'clock, in the chapel, will occur the initial debate between the Barnard Literary So- ciety of Columbia University and the Adel- phic Society of Union. The Barnard Club recently defeated the other literary society- of 'Columbia, and is thus champion of the largest university in the country. At the time of writing, the visitors' line-up has not been announced; but a member of the clul> said there will probably be two Phi Beta.

' •j,: ·i ' ,:11 10 THE CO:NCORDIENSIS Kappa's as speakers. The Adelphic speak- ers will be R. Taylor, '16; R. S. Blodgett, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15. The question is the same as in the Allison-Foote debate, the Barnard Club supporting the affirmative. Although this is not an intercollegiate affair,, the negative team would very much appr.e- ciate a large student aud~ence. MEETIN·G O,F ATHLETIC B·QARD. The first athletic board ·meeting of 1914 was beld in Silliman Hall on January 7th. The basket-ball schedule, including the games with the colleges of the newly-formed league, was ratified by the board. The Hobart foothaH game for next fall was de- cided not to be played at Buffalo as it was last fall, and if a game is played in the sea- son of 1914 that game will be played a.t Union. Dr. McComber, one of Union's delegates at the N. Y. S. I,. A. U meeting a.t New York on December 6th, 1913, reported that the 1913 football pennant was awarded to Union, the baseball pennant to Hamilton and the track pennant to Colgate. .THE SOPHOMORE SOIREE. The preparations for the sophomore soiree have been nearly completed and it is expected that the tickets will be on sale by the 15th of January. 1916 will introduce a novelty in programs in the form of a very neat little booklet with mother-of-pear! covers. Heretofore the programs have al- ways had leather covers, and· this innovation is but one of the many new ideas which will be introduced by Chairman Brunet. It is hoped that this first big event in the new gymnasium will be a marked success, and it is expected that nearly the whole class will attend. The decorations will be of southern smilax, and the music will be by Gioscia of Albany. The assessment will be $2.50 pet couple. PRACTICE GAME WITH HIGH SC.HO·OL DURING XMAS RECESS. Owing to the Christmas holidays, not enough men were about the college to give the basket-ball team sufficient practice, so they naturally turned to the Schenectady High School, which has a very promising team for the coming season. In this quarter the team was glad to find another that could give them the desired practice. The High School quintet gladly complied with the request of Captain Beaver and put up a mighty good fight against the college team. A great deal of credit should be given to the High School men for so willingly com- plying with their services to better the con- dition of our men, and it is our wish that their season may be one of fortune. An informal dinner party was held at the Delta Phi House before the Rochester game. Mrs. Floyd L. · Miller .was the pa- troness. The engagement has just been announced of Professor George Dwight Kellogg and Miss Anna Mary Collins, daughter of the late Rev. Joseph A. Collins of Philadelphia. Miss Collins was a member of the class of 1906 at Bryn Mawr and has a degree from Cornell. A GENTLEMAN. A man that's clean. inside and out; who neither looks up to the rich nor down on the poor ; who can lose without squealing and who can win without bragging; who is considerate of women, children and old people; who is too brave to lie, too gen- erous to cheat, and who takes his share of the world and lets other people have theirs. Delta Upsilon gave a banquet to its alumni Saturday evening. ,\ \'II

t ,\ \'II THE CQN,C'ORDIENSIS 11 (By Wefua~ '14.) 'Twas the last day of the old year. Les:He and I climbed the long flight of winding stairs and entered his room, a splendid place in the top of the tower. The big windows on every side admitted plenty- of sunshine and brightness ; but what- ever the weath.er outside ' the glow of a warm fire in an old fireplace made the room cosy. It was quite a large room, buit it seemed smaller because much space was occupied by tall book- -=--~;;;;a:=z=· d b · --;== · cases an . tg ~easy chairs. Everything was in good order a.nd quite free from dust. The floor was barre, but well cleaned, and the walis were wbitened .. There were few pictures and no orn.aments; but there were several charts, and a globe on the bookcases, while on the mant:1epiece was a small clock and a compound tnicroscope. Much to my delight, I observed in one cor- ner what I thought to be a telescope. \This is what I call my 'Toi\iVer Room,' \ he remarked, as we seated ourselves before the fire. \I'm glad to have y()tt here for a few minutes this morning, and ] trust you'll like my study. It's such a task to climb up to this place that I have few visitors, but a fellow can sit and· think or st-udy as much as he pleases here without being disturbed.\ I expressed my interest in tbe place and urged him to continue. \Y \ · ott see, he replied. while lighting his . \f ptpe, rom these windows w.e are able to get a fine vie·w in every direction. It is possible 1io see much of the Cam pus at a glance.\ \How long have you been in possession of this place?\ I ventured to as:k. \Well I don''t possess this place in the sense that you mean; I am granted the priv- ilege of coming here to use these things, but they are not all mine. Everybody is equal- ly welcome to come here and help himself to anything that the .Tower Room offers. I learned of this place last year and ttsed it some, but I decided lately to do much of my senior work here. It costs a bit of ef- fort to get up in this old tower. There is no elevator, but after a little you will find it profitable to climb the stairs.\ \I am sure the stairs will not hinder me,\ I replied most heartily; \I would like to come up here often this term. I am s.ure this place will he useful.\ \You may use everything I've got around here, and if I can be of any service to you in talking things over onc·e in a while I shall be glad to do so,\ he volunteered. \I like to discuss questions with other fellows. Every student has some good opinions.\ \Yes Leslie, I think so, too,\ I replied as I arose to go. \I have a number of things to ask your opinion about, and I shall come up here as often as 1 can. Wish I could stay longer this time.\ As we were about to part he stepped to his desk and handed me a card. ''Read my resolutions for 1914.\ They were as follows : To seek knowledge for the atta.inment of wisdom rather than for pedantic assertion. To receive advice in a broad-minded spirit, and part with it sparingly. To work a bit harder and toward a more definite goal, remembering that something cannot be had for nothing. To be cleaner in athletics, more honest in my relations with others, and more loyal to my i\1ma Mater.

\ . ' i' 12 \Sounds rather stiff, doesn't it?\ he re- marked as I finished. \But you notice that everything is put in comparison with what it was in the past. I beli~eve in evolution toward the better, and I think such resolu- tions are reasonable.\ \So do 1,\ I rejoined as we shook hands. \I shaH adopt these resolutions for myself, too.\ We then parted, wishing each other a Happy New Year. 'TIS HELL TO B·E A FRESHMAN. Samuel Clemens once said, \Life's a joke. Humor abounds here, there and everywhere. Feed upon it, 0 ye pessimists-'tis a free lunch!\ Now it's all very well for chaps like Mark Twain or Johnny Bennett to feel that way, but it's mighty easy to run across men-yes, even right here on the campus- who are actually starving to death for want of a little humorous food. Let us tell you of a freshman who wouldn't know Mark Twain from Home-run Baker or September Morn -a freshman with a face as long as a \chem\ lecture, and a disposition as sour and crabby as a gouty old grandpa of ninety * * * Our hero rolled into town on a bright, cheery day last Fall, with a wad of long greens in his home-made pants and a lump of something else in his throat. .The hurry and bustle and noise in the big marble station dazed him. He'd never seen any- thing like it before-Reubenville, even in all it's circus-day glory, couldn't begin to com- pare with it. To tell the truth, he'd be gol- dinged if he knew just what to do! Ma had told him to walk right over to the school- house and give his pocket-book to the teach- er, but he wasn't quite sure that- \Slap !\ landed a broad palm in the small of his back, and our hero turned his be- wildered gaze upon three of the most mar- velous beings he had ever seen. As he stared and stared it slowly drifted across his scattered senses that an appariHon like one of these once ca.m·e to Reubenville-·. that he was a play-actor with the Hoighty- 'f·oighty Beauty Show, and that he wore the sa01:e skinny pants and heelless shoes, and the same shrunken coat that showed his- webl, that left a lot to imagine when he tunt~e<l around. '':Chawmed ta see ya.-ah-Brown, ol' spavvt l Been lookin' faw ya, ol' fella. I twttst ya fa wtha's betta, ol' bwoy !\ And our dazed hero found himself mysteriously mov- ing t()ward a huge green car that purred away industriously at the curb. * * * Hou:.rs :later, when the green monster slid witb a graceful flourish up to a stately brownstone mansi9n, our hero was no long- er a dizzy, homesick waif-no, on the con- trary, he was jolly and care-free and su- premely happy. And why shouldn't he be? Weren't the biggest men in college sitting righ-t beside him? Weren't they calling him \J3il1\ and \old fellow\ and \good old sport,.\ and planning the most meteoric of social careers for him? And, most of all, wasn~t he going to join the most noted secret organization in the whole world, the Liva Little Hy? Tl1e green car slid to a stand-still, and then_ wondrous things began to happen. Our hero arose gracefully from his plush seat, flo a ted in a more or less bird-like manner through mid-air, and landed with a satisfied sort of \woof!\ on the radiator cap. He did this because he knew the broa.d-shouldered darkey chauffeur wanted him to. He knew the darkey wanted him to because his desire was plainly expressed by ,a. couple of husky arms filled with hard- boHed eggs. Then the impetuous chauffeur stoo<l up, nonchalantly peeled the black off his face like a shin-plaster and, out of a per- fectly white countenance, murmured, \Beat it !\ to the remaining occupants of the back seaL One of them took his advice; the others didn't. One of the latter landed /, .... .; ·i j . ' ·~

t i I 1 l I l l ,. I f t l ... .. ''~ ., 'THE CONCORDIENSlS 13 heavily on a sharp hitching-post and was pulled off some time later by a policeman hunting for a saloon. The oth·er has been mentally defective ever since. He always tries to swim when he's put in a shower bath, and is especially fond of biting little children. In the meantime our hero made up his mind to stand up. You see, the radiator was quite warm and, when some white smoke began to rise from the seat of his trousers, he concluded it was his move. At this juncture the bleached chauffeur threw in the clutch and our hero, with an- other graceful swoop and another \woof!\ joined him suddenly on the front seat. \Sa-ay Green,\ drawled the muscular chauffeur, throwing one arm lovingly about our hero, while with the other one he guided the car in a most nerve-racking manner by terror-stricken old ladies and sore traffic cops, \Some day you'll sure give me t' glad hand fer pullin' ya outer that bunch o' rough-necks. Why, sa'ay boy, didn't ya know they wuz just a second squad o' th' Klu Klux Klan? No? Close call, d-ned if 'twasn't ! Them three guys sittin' next t' ya wuz Lefty Louie an' Doc Cook an'-a --Capt'n Kidd. Gee!\ he continued, look- ing our hero over approvingly, \Yu've got some build, kid! Bet yu'll make cap'n o' the football team in yer freshm'n year. Look here, White, I'm a Takka Chance man, an' I want ya t' give some o' my m:en th' once over.. We got th' biggest men in college. * * * That night our hero pinned the green and yellow badge of Takka Chance over his heart and, amid the cheers and hand-shakes of his new-found brothers, shuddered as he thought of his narrow escape. A month has slipped by. It is the close of a bleak, cheerless November day. The last yellow rim of the sun has dropped from view behind a murky pile of clouds that lowers over the gray hills across the river. While the sky-dome is melting from bril- liant orange to yellow, from yellow to gray, and then into deep, clear biue, a stinging, biting gale hegins to whistle across the cam pus, heralding a coming storm. The inert cloud-bank in the west takes life. It rides upward, slowly at first, but with ever- increasing momentum, and, as the myriads of winking stars are blotted out one by one, the first snowflakes of the winter sift down stealthily through the naked trees. Here and there a waylaid stude shudders as he pulls his sweater more closely about his neck and hurry on to the cheery log fire and the warm dinner that awaits him. Through t.he gloom plods a forlorn, dejected figure. Its chin is sunken wearily upon its breast; some withering burden has bowed its shoulders piteously; its joints weak and palsied, as if-\Say. you freshman!\ sounds a voice through the roar of the wind, \When you get the lawn mowed and the leaves raked up and that cord of wood chopped and the garden planted for next summer, you're all through for the day!\ Can it be possible, you say, that this men- tal and physical wreck is our proud and happy hero of a few weeks ago? Can it be. possible- At this point our story is interrupted by Mark Twain's uproarious laughter, while we see that Johnny Bennett is lying on the floor and kicking his heels skyward in paroxisms of glee. As the mirth subsides momentarily, we hear our poor hero murmuring brokenly as he plods on through the darkness, \Nothing- to do 'till tomorrow. Nothing- but study!\ Three hours later he jumped off the Scotia bridge and died of water on the btain. \Is her costume negligee?\ \N a-negligible.\ Knight, '17. ' 1 Let's have a house-party,''. said the stude, as he took another sniff at her letter.

,. i' ·: : ,I ' ; H : . !' . '!J '• ; ;i ' ' I . . . ~ : 1:: ' ,, ' . J t l; I ... · 'l, ' . I:· I; 1'1. ' •; l : 1: , I'' ·.t I, 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE. CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon. House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Raymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House, ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Coulter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, '16; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, '16; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer,' Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Asst. Business Manager, Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHENECTADY ART PRI!;SS 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. NO-DEAL AGREEMENT. The No-Deal Agreement, much discussed, at first opposed, but finally favored by the student body, has been passed. It is to be in effect till one month after the opening of college next year. Now that we have the agreement, the questio~ is : How will it work? It will work successfully if the students live up to its articles. It is based upon the individual's sense of honor, and can succeed only so far as that sense exists. The man who will violate its provisions is the man who will cheat in his examinations. It is a perfectly fair parallel. Here at Union we talk a lot about our freedom and our recognition of individual rights. This all comes from our dependence upon a per ... sonal honor. If that trust is betrayed in one case, is it not liable to fail in another? Therefore, let us keep this agreement and better conditions here on the hill. If we must have politics, let's have ·clean, open contests, but none of the oldtime deals. It is time this unsavory feature of our college life was eliminated. We have, at last, a method of doing it. Let's do it and make Union a place where clean politics prevail. Do it for the sake of your college, if for no other reason. THE TOWER ROOM. This week we print the first of a series of articles in a department caUed The Tower Room. These ardcles are written by Webb, '14 (which is not his real name). The fact that he is in no way connected with The Concordiensis urges us to express our appreciation here. This department is a new thing in the history of our magazine and we want the opinions of our readers concerning it. Some articles in the series may admit of two views. Perhaps you will not agree with Webb. If not, write us and explain why. If you have any questions to ask, put them up to him, also. If he can- not answer them, he can find some one who can. We thank Webb for his interest and his aid in making The Concordiensis a success. BASKET -BALL. Our basket ball team has started on its second championship season. How do we know? We saw them play against ! :!; ,;

! :!; .. Rochester in our new gymnasium Friday night. That is enough. With four of our ' 1 . . last year s team p ay1ng 1n their usual style, with three new men contending for the flfth place and with Hough ton caging foul shots with his customary skill, the fu- ture takes on a most rosey hue. It is still pretty early to do much loud taiking, but we have started right and with the teatn- work of our five improving every day, we just have to feel cheerful. Saturday we m,eet the Army on their own court. The Cadets still remember the de- feat we gave thetn a year ago and want to even the score with us :if it is in any way pos- sible. We are confidently looking to our team to carry away West Point's scalp, and we certainly have the men who can do it. We only hope that the Faculty wiH not see fit to take any more men from the team. If they do, it is good-nig-ht to the West Point game and a cham pions hip season. By all the Gods of Olympus (as Johnny Bennett says), we ask the Faculty to \have a heart.\ UNION OUTPOINTS ROCHESTER. Garnet Five Opens th.e New Gym With a Decisive Defeat of the Yell ow Jackets. Final Score of 23-15 is a Fitting Inaugura- tion of Union's Newest Building. Friday evening was a regular J o.hnny Bennet night, for three or four auspicious occasions occurred. all at once in the short space of about two hours. In the first place, the 'Varsity trilnmed Rochester U ni- versity's Big Five in the first basket-ball game of the season; and to add to the in- terest of the gatne it was the first to be :played in the new gym. The score of 23 to 15 was just the right size to inaugurate the handsome edifice and smooth floor, for 15 the 23 is evidently an on1en which means that the gym is starting off right, and the ± 5 points which Rock ester scored against Union 1nakes just about as much opposition as one wants, to help open a new gym suc- <Jessfully. 'Then to put the cream on the bottle, most of the crowd which overflowed the floor and running track remained to dip the more- or-less light and extremely fantastic after- wards. (No one \trips\ any more. If they do-good night!) So, what with the lithe- sotne wiles of fluffy, frivolous fetnininity and the sturdy passing of Union's own little ~uintet, we refer you to the head of the Greek department for a few brief words of summary. Victory was doubly sweet, because the team from the Flo\ver City was the only one to mar the \Garnet\ record last year, when, in the first game of the season, Rochester defeated Union. Union split the season's average fifty-fifty before the year was over by trimming Rochester en her own court, however, so that was all r,ight. The. team which tool<: the floor for the game Friday was the same, but for one exception, as last year's championship ag- gregation. Captain \Jake\ Beaver was at hjs old position, right forward; \Erny\ Houghton and \Dave\ Beaver were at the guard positions; \T·eedy\ Woods played ·center; and Haubner, a. freshman, was at left forward. It took several minutes for the Union five to get over a slight stage fright at playing in the new gym. Rochester started off fast and Schoen scored a basket after some clever passing down the floor in the first few minutes of play. Two fouls for the \Hornets.\ after eacb of which Hough- ton dropped the ball prettily into the bas- ket, tied the score. Frorn then on till the end of the half the game was closely con- tested. Captain Neary of Rochester scored twice soon after Houghton added a baske-t

'· i ' ., I . ' ' ' I ' ~ ' 1 ': :'1 : I . ~·· '· I. ; ;, ; r ' li 'l, i' . ,, 1: ' ! :. : ! ,; 16 THE CONCORDlENSlS to the Union totaL For a short period of time the Hornets forged ahead by a lead. of three points. Fouling was frequent clur· ing this time and each foul counted a point for the opponents. Houghton only missed two tries at the basket throughout the game. Both \Jake'' Beaver and \Teedy\ vV oods were slightly handicapped by lameness, which hindered their usual spectacular pJay. Toward the end of the half the Garnet braced, and baskets by Haubner and Hough- ton in quick succession, together with a free try, brought the score to the advantage of Union. Soon after this the whistle blew .. The score: Union, 11 ; Rochester, 9. Enthusiasm throughout the game was strong, but there was little organized cheer- ing. Basket-ball is evidently too fast :for any long applauding of plays, for while a cheer is going on the whole course of the game may be ~hanged. Between the halves Dr. Me Comber rose to the occasion and in the name of the C()l- lege greeted the spectators to the gym, in- viting an inspection . after the game, and announcing the dance which closed the £es- tivities. \Prexy\ Richmond was called ()fl and made a speech in his usual clever ve-in, and received a hearty cheer when he fin- ished. Soon afterwards the two teams ap- peared-. Union in handsom.e new suits and Rochester also in a change of \raiment.\ During this half Union's team play as- serted itself to better advantage, while Rochester seemed to be tiring under tlle strain. The result was ithat the Garnet quickly drew away from the \Hornets scoring two to the Flower City aggrega- tion's one. In pass work, guarding and speed the Garnet showed more of its old- time form than had been apparent in the first half. Captain Neary dropped the first basket i• this half, reducing the score to a tie, but after that there was nothing to it. Union raced away from its opponents and hung up 12 points in the twenty minutes of p1ayJ During this period Remington was taken out of the game and Whitney, who had been playing center, went to Remington's posi-- tion at left forward. Captain Neary op ... posed Woods at center and soon after his advent \Teedy\ shot a basket over his head }ust to show he \should bibblef' who played against him. Houghton came back strong this half in scoring, while the Beavers played a brilliant game. Haubner was on the job every minut.e. During the game he scored three baskets. The hal:f ended with the score 23 to 15 in favor of Union. During the first half it seemed that Rochester outclassed the Garnet in pass work and general team play, but ior al1 their clever work they could not score. The fact that this is the Gold and Black's third game this season may account tor the more finished exhibition of play during the early part of the game. Toward the end of the half Union braced and her team work im- proved greatly. At any rate our boys seemed to have the capacity for scoring· points, which is, after all, the main thing. The fact that the team was short orte of its regulars may have been a cause of the showing. Glenmyer, picked by Dawson, was unable to play at the last moment. The in-- dividual play of every member of the tearrl was excellent, however, and the results are aU that could be desired, even though \Jake\ Beaver does think his team should have scored more points. Wait till the West Point game-and then Cornell ! Unfortunately the Sporting Page was un ... able to attend the festal bacchanal which closed the evening, owing to certain quali- fications of Dr. Mac~s, as well as the un-- desirability of doing a solo dance a la Pavlova, so we'll have to leave that account for the sod ety column.

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 The score: B. Haubner, If. . ................. 3 J. Beaver, rf. . ................ 0 Woods, c, ..................... 1 Houghton, lg. . ............... 2 D. Beaver, rg .....•.......... 1 7 ROCHESTER (15). B. Neary, If. ................... 3 Remington, If. . .............. 0 Schoen, rf. .................. 2 Whitney, c. . ................ ·o t,anni, lg. . .•.......•........ 0 Bale, rg. . ................•.. 1 6 Referee--.:Thorpe, o£ Columbia. Umpire-Grout, of Union. F. F.T. 2 0 1 0 2 0 0 9 1 0 6 9 F. F.T. 2 3 0 0 3 0 3 0 6 0 4 0 18 3 CUPID ADDS ANOTHER RECRUIT TO THE RANKS OF THE BENEDICTS. Sidney Ferdinand Dejonge, of Senior Class, Weds Miss Helen V. Huber as Culmina- tion of Pretty Romance .. . Great indeed was the surprise of the 6 'studes\ on returning from Xmas vacation to hear that still another of their colleagues had succumbed to the alluring charms of Dan Cupid, the victim being none other than \Sid\ Dejonge of the eminent senior class. A member of Kappa Alpha and Phi AI ph a societies, he has been a prominent figure in college activities. '(Who'd a thunk it?'' Not even the slightest suspicion of such an occurrence had existed on the \hill and then, after an engagement, but six weeks previous, ('S\d' '' · t s marnage was announced. The future Mrs. Dejonge was Miss Helen Virginia Huber, daughter of Mrs. Sarah R. Huber of State Street, Schenectady. She is a graduate of Schenectady High School in the class of 1909, and a member of the Kappa Epsilon Sorority. The wedding took plac.e on New Year's eve, being performed by the Rev. Paul Birdsall, rector of Grace Church in Albanyo CAN YOU LEARN THIS? A Harvard professor has worked out this interesting table: 1 times 9 plus 2 equals 11. 12 times 9 plus 3 equals 111. 123 times 9 plus 4 equals 1111. -/! • 1234 ttmes 9 plus 5 equals 11111. 12345 times 9 plus 6 equals 111111. 123456 times 9 plus 7 equals 1111111. 1234567 times 9 plus 8 equals 11111111. 12345678 times 9 plus 9 equals 111111111. DR. KELLOGG HEADS CLASSICAL CLUB. The Upper Hudson Classical Club met Saturday afternoon in Washburn Hall, and, after the reading of several papers and dis .. cussions of them, the following officers were elected: President, Professor Kellogg; vice ... president, Mr. Merritt; treasurer, Miss Helen Hall ; secretary, Miss Carolyn Whip- ple; executive committee, Professor Ben- nett, Jared Scudder and Principal M. H. Walrath of Troy High School. Doctor Kellogg read a paper on \Trans .... Iation,\ and Professor Bennett also read a short paper. The next meeting of the club will be on February 7th, when the direct method of teaching Latin will be illustrated with a class of high school freshmen. Dr. Kellogg (caUing the roll): Brown- Foster (recovering from a small even- ing): Hie. Whereupon \Doc\ remarked that the class was not one in Roman conversation.

t8 THE CONCORDIENSIS DR. LANDRETH WRITES ON SIGMA XI. We received a copy of the Sigma Xi Quarterly this week with an article by Pro- fessor 0. H. Landreth on ''For What Sigma Xi Stands.\ Dr. Landreth explains the ideals and aims of this honorary scientific society. We would like to print the article, but lack of space prevents us. STUDENT V:QLUNTEER CONVEN- TION. The seventh quadrennial international convention of the Student Volunteer Move- ment was held in Kansas City, Missouri, December 31 to January 4, and was the largest gathering of its kind in the history of bgher education. Over five thousand delegates were registered, representing seven hundred and fifty-five institutions of higher learning throughout the United States and Canada. The watchword of the Student Volunteer Movement is \The Evangelization of the World in this Generation.\ The purpose of the .convention was to face the whol~eness of the task that faces humanity as it looks int() the non-Christian world, to accentuate the unity of the task in which we are all interested, and to realize the spiritual soli- darity of the Christian students of North America. It is safe to say that there came to most of those assembled a realization of the conquering power of the religion of Jesus Christ such as had never come before. . No passioned appeal was made to raise the delegates through their emotions to a point of volunteering for Christian service on the foreign field. The unprecedented op- portunities were ably presented in a sane, logical manner, in such a w.ay as to chal- lenge the ability and service of every think- ing- man. John R. Matt, the man who with- out doubt is doing more to mould human history today than any other l~ving man, had charge of the convention, and ihe in ... spira.tion received at the convention will never be. lost. It is interesting to note in this conn:ection that among the younger alumni w h() are student volunteers ar·e \1~ed'' Walser '10 · ' 9 \S · \ C t '10 \Ot \ F '11 am aver , . ; ·to aust,, ; \Jim\ Potter, '12, and others. T'he Onion men at the convention were Professor 'Tay- lor, Blodgett, 'IS; F. L. Smith, '1 5; D()wns 1 '17, Porter, '17, and the General .Secr.etary. T'he large picture of Dr. N ott has been hung in the Chapel, directly behind the pulpit. COURSES IN MISSION STUDY. The Christian Association offer~ five courses in Mission Study each of which seems to be of prime importance to the thinking man. It is always inspiring to study th() lives of men who have really accomplished large things in the world. A study is rn ade of the lives of a few of the really great mis-· sionaries in Course one, which is ably :l.ed by Miss Belle M. Brain, one of the best-l<nown authorities on missionary biography ,in the country. We are all obliged to face sotne pba.se of the immigration problem every day. The course in immigration is led by Professor Taylor. China, a land of 425,000,000 peoJle, is just awakening after literally hibernating for centuries. Mr. Salathe has chaxge of this fascinating course in modern history. No broad-minded student' can affo11d not to know the essential points of the principal world religions. These religions and tbeir relation to Christianity will be taken ttp by different professors during the term. Union College has a larger proportion of South American students than most Ameri- can colleges. We should, therefore, show great interest in the continent of ()))por- I,'!

• 1n ... of . lS-· by Nn he of he is of . of • I,'! ·THE CONCORDIENSIS tunity. A study :is. made of South America in Course five. the Sophomore Soiree on February 12. Bor this dance the \gym'' will wear a ch~arming These courses started in Silliman Hall last Tuesday evening, and will continue to meet in Silliman Hall each Tuesday evening at 7 o'clock. The classes will close prompt- ly at 8 o'clock, so that men may keep en- gagements made for that time. '17: \1 know the tango and the hesita- tion, but what's the St. Vitus ?\ '16: That's the one you do with a trained nurse.'' JUNIOR \PROM.~J Amid the interesting maze of announce ... ments and ·notices on the college bulletin- board, one finds two large posters, unique for design, and the message which they con- vey-that the Junior Week festivities for 1914 are but f-our weeks away. February 12 to 15 is the date which has been set for the three days of gaiety this season, and from all that can be learned from the committees in charge, there's to be just \some gaiety,'' too! For years Union students have looked ahead to the time when they might possess a building suitable for staging the function of ] unior Week. The completion of the new \gym'\ gives the college a splendid setting for the annual dance ; and who can deny after the informal christening party Friday night that lthe \gytn'' is not an admirable place to \trip the light fantastic toe''; an admirable floor for the \Wash- • tngton shuffle,\ and the latest pivot dips and one-step turns! The initial party of Junior Week will be gown of evergreen boughs and southern smilax. It has been announced that bite soiree programs will be decidedly new and novel. On Friday afternoon of the w.eel< the college n1usical clubs will give the guests a concert, and in the evening precedi~ng the \prom Evan Williams, the New York concert singer, will give the second of Ule college musicales in the chapel. Beginning at 9 :30 o'clock on Friday niglt th~ Junior Promenade will carry on the en- tertainment until the early morning hours. The 1915 \prom''' will be the best the c€>1!- lege has ever had and will go down in his- tory as such. Chairman Thomas A. Dent has announced that the \gym\ will be en- tirely re-decorated for the junior party aad. that every effort will be expended to make the building look as fine as possible. He also states that the dance orders for th.e \prom'' and the buffet luncheon will eclipse anything ever seen at Union. J. Gioscia of Albany will furnish the music for botll parties. Saturday afternoon February 14, Union will play Colgate in the \gym and in the evening the various fraternities will hold informal dances, dinner parties or theater parties. One or two of the \crowds\ will give informal teas on Saturday, also. The house parties will break up on Sunday. It is hard to state as yet just how many house parties there will be on the hill, but it i~ believed that practically every fraternity- will hold a party. The patronesses for the Junior Prome- nade will be: Mrs. Charles Alexander Richmond, Mrs. Benjamin H. Ripton, Mrs.

2() THE CONCORDIENSIS Frank S. Hoffman, Mrs. Olin H. Landreth, Landon, Mrs. H. M. White and Mrs. J. H. Mrs. James H. Stoller, Mrs. Edward Everett Levitt. Hale, Jr., Mrs. Ernest Julius Berg, Mrs. John I. Bennett, Mrs. Edw~rd E. Ellery, Mrs. Frank Coe Barnes, Mrs. Horace G. McKean, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. Wilbert A. Garrison, Mrs. George J. Lyon, Mrs. Morton C. Stewart, Mrs, Morland King, Mrs. J. A. C. Callan, Mrs. C. N. Wald- ron, Mrs. Stanley P. Chase, Mrs. Walter L. Upson, Mrs. Charles B. Anthony, Mrs. J. George Steinle, Mrs. Robert T. Hill, Mrs. Hartley F. Dewey, Mrs. Fred T. Dawson, Mrs. James W. Yelverton, Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, Mrs. W. T. Hanson, Jr., Mrs. Wal- lace Clark, Mrs. Glowaski Parker, Mrs. Horatio G. Glen, Mrs. Frederick B. Rich- ards, Mrs. J. H. Callanan, Mrs. Frank Star- buck, Mrs. Allen Dillingham, Mrs. Floyd ' Miller, Mrs. Robert Landon, Mrs. C. E. Aken, Mrs. Arthur B. Lawrence, Mrs. George Donnan, Mrs. E. L. Damon, Mrs. W. F. MacMillan, Mrs. J. C. Jackson, Mrs. J. L. Moon, Mrs. C. D. Hawn, Mrs. F. Ber- nard Travis, Mrs. H. W. Peck, Mrs. F. W. Burleigh and Mrs. E. 0. Kiesiling. Those who will act as patronesses for the soiree, in addition to the faculty me,mbers' wives mentioned above, are: Mrs. J. C. Jackson, Mrs. W. F. MacMillan, Mrs. F. B. Richards, Mrs. DeForest W. Weed, Mrs. R., H. Gibbes, Mrs. Frank Van der B'ogart, Mrs. H. E. Starbuck, Mrs. W. B. Landreth, Mrs. James W. Yelverton, Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, Jr., Mrs. J. H. Callanan, Mrs. J. T. Schoolcraft, Mrs. C. B. Hawn, Mrs. J. L. Moon, Mrs. Chester Moore, Mrs. Frank Huntington, Mrs. Ferdinand Heitn, Mrs. E. R. Cullings, 'Mrs. G. Dnnnan, Mrs. W. C. Yates, Mrs. E. C. Whitmyre, Mrs. R. J. PHI GAM CONVENTION. Roger MacMiilan, '15, and John Jackson, '16, were the delegates from Union to the national convention of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. The convention was held during the Christmas vacation at Atlantic City. Question to Test Your Knowledge. Does anyone know anything about the Freshman Banquet, or ain't there no sich animal? THE \GYM\ OPENS Friday night, January 9th, the first basket- ball game of the season to all intents and purposes witnessed what might be called the opening of the new gymnasium. Between the halves 'Dr. Richmond welcomed the spectators in a few words and gave all per- mission to inspect the building throughout. He asked them not to judge the building as it now stands, for it is practically unequip- ped. Indeed it has not yet been accepted by the college authorities. At present we are using the building only through the permission given by the contractor. Most of the electric fixtures, apparatus and furni- ture are wanting. The ugym\ will prob- ably be officially accepted sometime next week, but until then ·we must be patient. The student body in college meeting Mon- day noon voted to tax each student fifteen cents in order to purchase a spring-board. The athletic board has decided to hold informal dances after each home game, charging each man fifty cents. This is to

H. the ich he er- ut. as . en to THE CONCORDIENSIS .21 be done in order to make money enough to counterbalance the financially bad football season. The dance after the Rochester game was an experiment to try the scheme out, and it was a decided success. The athletic board made abo~t fifty dollars from the proceeds, and the dancers heat the Junior Week crowd to using the gym floor for the first tim·e. FIRST COLLEGE MUSICALE. which enables her to hold her listeners spellbound from the very first note to the last. Mr. J. Adam ow ski came next in two solos, The first, a Rotnanza, by Beethoven, was rendered in a truly musical manner by a man who is a true mustctan. The second, the Mazurka, brought out his ability. A flawless technique, a depth of expression and interpretation, together with his sweet- toned violin, made these two numbers two of the most enjoyable on the program. He The Adamowski T·rio appeared before a Wiis accompanied by his brother. splendid audience, who greeted all three Last was the Adante and Scherzo from B artists enthusiastically. The program opened flat trio, hy Rubinstein. It was very beau- with a trio by Schumann. Four movements tiful and rounded out the program .. were played, each of which was executed Each of the three men1bers of the trio is with an artistic finish which only artists such as they are able to give. Next came Mr. F. Adamowski in a Chopin Polonaise, which he rendered with expres- sion, interpreting it with great depth of feeling. Mme. Szumowska had a particularly dif- ficult accompaniment. Her technique and expression held the audielljce spellbound. Encore ( ?) , some light piece with mute. The third number was three solos by Mme. Szumowska. All three brought out her wonderful capabilities at the keyboard. The first, the C sharp, minor, N octutne by Chopin, was particularly beautiful. The waltz was played with a finish and at the same time a vim which thrilled her listeners. IIer last number, the Rhapsody, difficult as it was, was exquisite and yet wonderful. Mme. Szumowska plays with an artistic fin- ish which consists not merely of a flawless technique, but with a depth of. feeling which only comes from within, and that something an artist and the concert was most pleasant- ly rendered. A large number of students were in attendance. The next n urn her of the course is Evan Willian1s on February 13th. A slight blaze started Monday morning in a paper-basket at the Psi U House. The fire was extinguished with but little dam- age being done. Mary had a little calf, And it was white as snow. She wore her skirt slashed up the side, And that is how I know. DR. RICHMOND TO SPEAK • President Richn1ond will attend the an- nual dinner of the Men's Club of the First Presbyterian Church of East Orange, N. ]., this evening, where he will deliver an ad- dress to the mem hers of the club.

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS On Sunday, January 18, President Rich- mond will be the guest of Colonel T:owns- ley at West Point. Mr. Oswald Villard, who wiU speak in the college chapel next Monday on the sub- ject of \Fair Play to the Negroes,\ wiU be the guest of President Richmond while in Schenectady. Mr. ViUard, who is a grand- son of the late William Lloyd Garrison, is president of the New York Evening Post. Mr. Villard is a graduate of Harvard of the class of '93 and was, for two years, in- structor of United States history in that in- gtitution. Wads worth : \Do you think we should have a more elastic currency?\ Hagar : \It is elastiic enough. Why don't they make it more adhesive?\ AT THE GY,M DANCE. Sweet Young Thing: ·\Mr. Mudge, do you know these new dances ?\ Bill: \Well I'll ten you. I know the holds, but I don't know the steps.\ PREXY PRAISES STUDENTS. Says That General Average of Work is High for the Last Term. Freshmen Rank Very High. Last Friday President Richmond took occasion at chapel to praise the student body for the fine grade of work done during the Fall term. He said the Faculty was quite pleased with the reports. [Ed. note: Will wonders never cease?] · The freshmen class, having sacri:ficed their class banquet because it \took time from their work,\ reaped their reward in the examinations. Over one hundred fresh- men had no conditions at all, while twenty- five had but one. This, out of a class of a hundred and forty-one! We are proud Df that record, but it's time for the freshmen to show more \pep\ and hold their banquet. Or haven't they any \pep\? • ~. \'i There was once a fair maid from Hoboken, Who accepted a ring as a token ; When the summer boob said, \Now will we be wed?\ She laughed and said, \Nix I was jokin'.'\ DR. CAMPBELL ADDRESSES ENGINEERS. Gives Scientific Lecture ~in the New ~Gym~ Dr. William Campbell of Columbia Uni- versity gave an illustrated lecture in the new gymnasium last evening. His subject was \Microscopic Metallography,\ and he illustrated it with many instructive slides. The address was delivered before the So- ciety of Engineers of Eastern New Y ork 1 and over a hundred members of the society were present. Dr. Campbell gave a highly instructive lecture, and one which was thoroughly enj.oyed by ali who were present. WILL ALUMNI RUN SENIOR BALL? The Commencement Committee of the Graduate Council met Saturday and dis- cussed plans for the coming Commence- ment. One idea which came up met with decided approval and was brought before a committee of the Terrace Council fClr their opinion. -The plan is to have the alumni run the Senior Ball. Of late years the af- fair has been strictly a class dance, and it is this condition which may be changed .. Make it a part of Commencement and, tlterefore, an alumni affair. The ball this yea.r wi11, of course, be held in the new gymnasium. The idea seems highly satisfactory and it is to be hoped that 1914 will take this s.tep, in making Commencement a time belonging entirely to the alumni. Many of the young- er graduates would feel an interest in an alumni dance which they do not take in a purely class function. For the Gr:aduate Council to manage the ball would effectively remedy this difficulty.

' ''i .. . ty as ' J. re . . nt . JS a TH:E CONCORDIENSIS : Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free deliv.ery by I messengers. ·Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY Do your Holiday plans include a Winter Suit or Overcoat;> If so come to Steefels-thousands of gar- ments-hundreds of exclusive styles, no delays, and dollars saved for the trip or tlle dance . $Io to $6o We want you to see our new M ackinarr;s You are a College Man Let us show you what \class\ goes with our overcoats & suits for fraternity biothers and others. It will be a revelation to you and your .chums . STULL BROS., Tailors Opp. Old Post Uffica 158 Jay Street A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Dou~las $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to Is. Surefits $4 to $6. Stets{)ns $6 to $7. . Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL ' z45 STATE ST.. SCHENECTADY PATRONIZB YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZJCitS \' I !: l l

THE CONCORDIENSIS BARNEY'S Wkere Everybod~ 8/zops Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sclzenectady,s (;reatest Stor• SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. Yate's Boat House The largest aad best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection with house - - · - - • 29 Front Street Both Ph·ones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing - - - Furnishings - ·• · Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing . -· Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady · v. E. Wheldeu, Manawer Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot 'Phone 2723-J SAY YOI:I SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY' • ; '.

; '' 'THE CONCORDIENSIS N. M. READ PU'BLlC STENOGRAPHER RQom 74 Parker Building--Phone 620-W. Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities from · the· Atlantic to tl1e Pacific. Class contracts a specialty Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck '·Co. Special Rates to Students ~. ~. UJ4tarlt DELICATESSEN \Joe'' caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'PHONE 298-W Higgins' 722 EASTERN A VB. ( Drawing Inka I Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paate · Drawing Board Paate Liquid Paste Office Paste V eazetabJe Gluea. etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London The· Big Hardware Store 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirt• and Collars, Fownes' Glovea for all occasion•, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Baga and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Visahn~ Cards W'eddtnQ' jtahonery \Bustne s Cards-Le1terHeads Class Pins -Mono(~ams Crests. Coats 4 Ar~s etc:. J)ESIGhEf\S £NGJ\AVEf\S Pf\tNTEf\:S EMBOSS!~& PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS ,., 1> \ ;

THE CONCORDIENSIS A R Z • ' Q h . furnished music at Union College . . . Ita s rc estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'IO, 'I I, '12 and Best Dance Music in t;he World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert Office and Res.,, 167 Hamilton ,St., Albany HOTEL AN:D RESTAURANT LENS GRIN.DING A 'SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh O'PT·OMETRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane .Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses ·Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With Over Ioo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Jrnf. J. J. iKtlgulleu For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B .. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits. etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2108-W Thalman, Caterer 238 ,state Street FELLOWS: 'Y ()U can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Alban¥ Street Phone 3628'-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J llutnu Nattnual iuuk &t1}rttertally. N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY•'

THE CONCORDlEN.SIS FURNITURE THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N. Y. The Sterling Art Shop Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during d:nner an<f· A place for djft divin d putcha:ses. after the play q. 6 6 & · Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6, -o•dock Interior Decorating. Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N:. Y. FIRE ROOF .Both hotela conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady The chances are 3 to I that that Snappy Overcoat was made by WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELE:P·HONE 1441-J PATRONIZE \'Y()1JR PAPER'S PATRONllERS

THE CONCORDlENSIS Warmth without weight outer coata. Now ia the time fellows $25.00 to $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN Claaa, \Frat Club, Poster, Stunt and Het Picture !Have you a picture in your room? ADd don't all the fellows pick it up? Let us frame it so you may still have it when Campus days are over. The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building • ·On your way to the Post Office'' SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street 617 State Street \Midnight Oil\ Is a Thing of the Past The clear white light of. Mazda. has revolutionized the study hour. If studying or reading is a pleasure, Mazda will in· crease this pleasure. If cramming is a drudgery, Mazda will lighten it. USE MAZDA LAMPS Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largeat dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED T£LEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'

THE CONCORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N. Y. MOE DEWILDE~ Hatter aad Farnisher. Trunks and Leather Goods · '54 State St., Albany, N.Y. ln.as, t~t iurbtr William J. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. Albany, s Progressive Drug Store Morris Drug Co. 21J-28 No. Pearl St. Alhany Agency for Whitman's \Our Busine.ss is Growint\ Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 64 No. Pet~rl St., Al!Jany, N. Y. \Root for Jack\ FISHER'S 2nd SHI~TS t50c 112 No. Pearl St. Albany DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS 40 a11d 12 Maid en Lan1 A lbaft:J, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA.TRONIZBU ! ,: ' ·, ·, ., ·, ' :~ I ., i ·' ' '~·

THE CONCORDIEN:SIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music Furnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J' 31 0 State Street, Schenectady The Manhattan Co. · . Engleman & BeDinger 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest ca•h price• :PAINTS, OILS · Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A 16 SQUARE DEAL•• for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We . guarantee each buyer .of an articl.e bearing the Sp~uldii~g Trade-Mark: that such article will give sat1sfact10n and-a re·a:sonable amount of service. A ·G Spauldt·n & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • · g lOS. 520 Stb Ave., New York Send for Catalo4ue · VanVoast & Leonard =============== GENERAL INSURANCE Quick • Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. Prescriptions Accurately Compounded · Toilet Articles 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World 'they wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE .. CONCORDY•'

Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, E. -H. SOUDER Jeweler· and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special· work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 Noe Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-==-- S. E. Miller's Z4 and 26 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Ya THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, .. • .. President T. I. Van ANTWERP. • Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treas. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, • General Counael Main office, 47 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington • Jln~a 1£uur~ Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • K. H. Solaghian Photographs ''While You Vlait'' Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo ~ you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 1()7 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N.Y. PA TRONJZJ.t YOUR PAPE:R~s P ATRONIZERS l I i t' I I \I ! ' !

·~···~. ·~- ,...,~, ...... ,._. -~-~- __ ,_ . .,..__.........-~o-->-_,__. ___ ..,._,.,~4;-,...-~r-~·- ·'-~~'-----\ s & <iood ·Clothes SAY MEN: .. y.l e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of ~ther things to wear too. If you look us over a little we think you'll like us and our way of doing business: The Colle~e Clothier 240-44 State Street

UNIO Vol. XXXVII No,. 11 The e e leD SIS on cor Published Weekly by the Stu9ents of Union College 1 \Fair Play to the Negro\ 2 Union College Rules in 1854 3 Union's Second Basketball Victory JANUARY 22nd, 1914

,, I ,, ,. ' '~ I ; • ~ to .. \ I :.'. '~ ' l UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNIQ:N COLLEGE The college offers. the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Courses leadtmg to the degree of A.. B. CtASSICA~ CouRSit: A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2., Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3.. Course leadlug to the degree of B. 8. ScrF:NTIFIC CouRs£- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadbng to the degree ot. B. E. Gli:NERAL ENGINEElUNG CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRs~- This course is intended to give a br-oad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. &. Courses leailing to graduate decree11. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREF: OP M. C. E.-This cour.se of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our :apedal Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRsE ~tEADING To DEGREE or M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE ~EADING TO DEGRE~ or PH. D.-- This course .. of two years of graduate study requires for admis.., sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES; Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKEaJ M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y~ DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, j. NEWTON Fn~ao., President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $xo; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: }OHN C. WATSON; Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St.t Albany\ N. Y. • 'Everything for the College Man except Exsma'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKI.NAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAy YOU SAw IT IN THE II CONCORDY .. ',•· ,\

of course admis.., Sl Y. E by prac- Dean. of state to its B. is fee, f seven N.Y. \ 6-W '.: ,.': ,,- '·,· ~ .. •', i 'i' THE CONCORDIENSIS The sooner you .Pay ·us a (. -. ·VIsit ·that much sooner will you ·realize what ·clothes · In the''Wee Sma' Hours\ ,economy .means 'i I ,f l I •! ' When you're \·cramming\ for an exam- When you\re ''boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your ma.ki:ng ·up that ''condition''- Or when y·ou're wrestling with the intracies~of'•A·nalyt\- After tb·e ·steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get ·chilly- THEN ·y'Ou 'II appreciate the cheery and cheering warmth of th.e G~ E. Twin Glower Radiator., ready at the turn of a switcb, ·any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. · Try one:and you,ll buy one. For sa'le 'by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York' Suits & ,Overcoats $10, $12.50 & $15 ' 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PA'l'RONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

I I : ,. I \• ;. ! : ~ :· 1' THE CONCORDIENS_IS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches urasurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TBA ROOM SPRClALISTS 31 Steuben Street; E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and OJ!.tician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 No. Pearl Street MADE TO ORDER $20 .. 00 to $40.00 --AT--- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, - - - President T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Trea1. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, • General Counacl Main office, 47 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington Jlala llunr4 Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • K. H. Solaghian Photographs ''While You Wait'' Fellows: Drop in for an informal photo -· · you' 11 appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \ ., . . , · .. l. I• .~ . I- ' ' ·, !, ~ ' 1 ,' ·,t· I I ' .·I' t

., ' ., l. ,, .~ . I- t .l ' ' ·, !, ~ ' 1 ,' ·,t· I I ' . ' ~ ' THE C.ON:CORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle .and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle M otorcy:cles Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a· Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you . will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady ,; PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME &rllrnrttnby Art Jrrs.a J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. ''THE BEST BY TEST~' The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Ofhigh .. class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. •; .. - 146 NOTT TER~ACE TELEPHONE 43ts8-W PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE ·CON·CORDIENS[S ''lhe House of Fine Clothes'' F. W. Mtdlin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin 'PRO PRUttORS BA B BITT'S · ~autt & a.tnmpauy 25 per cent cash clearance sale in- cludes our famous ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS · · · · · Diplomas, wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper \ROGERS-PEET\ 52 NORTH PEARL STREET the \Frankel 15 , . Albany, N. Y. d -~-h- '~L\ S\'Stem an \j' e J Clothes A cash discount • of 10 per cent ts made on all plain blue and black- • SUitS •. Babbitt & Co. 451-453 Broadway ''Albany's Greatest C/others'' .. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days ::: . Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE ., CONCORDY\ . I . \ .4 •( ·. '

'I ',~ THE C.QN·CORDIENSIS Visit O:ur Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINW.AY WEBER Cluett & Sons AND PIANO~LA PIANOS ONE PRICE .PIANO HOUSE 508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY., N. Y SOLE DOCTORS: \If It's Made of Rubber We .Have It'' Its the soles of the people we keep in view, For we are the doctors of boot and shoe, And we serve the living and not the dead, With the best of leather, wax, nails and thread. • We ~can sew on a sole, or nail it fast, And do a good job and make it la~t. There is nothing snide about what we can do, Doubt not our statement.for work proves it true. We can gjve you a lift too in this lite, ,; Not only you, but your family and wife. A great many patients come to our door, Worn out and run down beside feeling ~sore. Though we don't poultice, plaster or pill, We cure all shoes, no matter how ill. m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works· Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. 52 I State Street 229 State Street 23 Stores Telephone 3456 H 0 L TZ M A N 's LATEST STYLES-MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION, for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES (iJ French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All atylea and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PAT:RONIZERS

'THE :CQNCORDIENSIS WINTER SPORTS Are now on. Are you fully equipped? A visit to ALBANY'S LEADING SPORTING GOODS STOR'E WiU suggest everything necessary for the exhilerating sports of this northern . climate. SKATES, SKATING SHOES, SKATING TOQUES. SN·OW SHOES, SKIES, T·OBOGGANS, MACKINAW COATS and SWEATERS ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRiiC ;QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sopbmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay l!Jy him until he is a Senior can be , effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~RN: 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~: i~i~ D. B. pAIGE, Si~ma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11909078 1199113 Colleale Representative Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street .....•..••.. ······~ no aNeW ARROW ~hCOL'LAR Cluett, Peabody & Co., Iaa. Makera SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 JANUARY 22, 1914 NO. 11 GARNET OUTCLASSES ARMY. Cadets Fall Before the UniQn Quintet Scoring. in Last of Game a Feature. About half-past five last Saturday after- noon the old chapel bell tore loose with a jubilant rendition of its own pet particular kind of cacaphony which brought oodles of joy to the hearts of all Union men sprinkled around the campus. As old Abe Lincoln said, \Union must and shall be preserved, even at the expense of the army, if I have to fight it out on this court all afternoon!\ Union not only preserved, but in preserving ~its own honor and record, it kind-a pickled (figuratively speaking) the army. Pursuing this luscious metaphor we may say that it was jam for us even if the Garnet didn't seem to \jell\ very fast in the first half. And it didn't take all afternoon, either- just about twenty minutes in the second half. Getting back to earth and the revered pure English of Chaucer and Addison once more let us say that Union's aggregation of basketball wafters slipped a large, elab- orate quince into the upper left hand sleeve where, all good officers carry their proboscis- dusters, of the U-nited States Army Corps stationed at West Point-on-Hudson, by the interesting score of 33-13, in toto. Not only was this Union's second victory for the sea· son and West Point's fifth defeat, but it ' was the fourth year in succession in which Union has demolished the Soldiers in basket-ball by more or less overwhelming scores. We hereby propose a new character to stand beside \Jack the Giant Killer\ in the children's story books. His first name is \Jake the Army Killer.\ He is still alive; his present habitat is Schenectady; and you can always find him in the library except when he's on the basket-ball floor. He has a double who \goes in and out with him\ -that is, when Dave is coming out, Jake is going in: that's how they always keep so near the baskets. No less credit is due our own little sharp- . shooting expert, \Erny\ Houghton, who stored away about half the points Saturday, because, like Bert Williams, he's sure death on fouls. Then there's that Rubifoam smile set up on top of a hop-pole. Thafs \Te~dy\ Woods. He plays center, where he can take advantage of his hopping ability. When he stands in the center of the court he looks like a may-pole, with the rest of

10 THE CON'CORDIENSIS the players holding invisible pink ribbons and dancing round hin1. But he doesn't stand still very long at that. He can take one step, fall forward, and place the ball in the basket at the end of the court. Besides these we have \Wally\ Girling, gentle, kind-hearted, sweet-natured. That's the kind of fellow he is. He got in the game dowp. the river and stayed there right along. } I . I • So much for the team that humbled Uncle Sam's Specials. Nc;>w about the game.. It started off un- favorably for Union. The boys didn't seetn to be warmed up, nor did them seem to relish their fare of one plate of soup before the game. , The Cadets played their heads off that ha:lf, and though neither side was able to .score for a long time, yet when the half was .over the. score was in. favor, of. the army by one point-8-7. This ,goes to show that Union did not have an easy victory. It also substantiates C!-U opinion which was commonly expressed after the Rochester game. It was said frequently that the team did not. get going, didn't start to \show didn/t get all their ·\pep\ in the game till about the middle .of the second half. The wr.iter . qoesn't pretend to be a critic . of basketrball. . Results so.. far seet;n to. show )-:I '• ,._ the needlessness of criticism. But may the sporting page offer this logi,cal prediction: and pulled some of the striking pass-work that has been a feature of their work during practice. Girling, who had been attacked by a little stage-fright during the early part of the game, soon overcame it and played a strong game. Houghton, who had been the only consistent gainer of points during the first half, kept up and improved on his sple?Jdid work, while the Beavers and \V' oods slipped along in a regular web of spectac- ular play. \Jake\ Beaver contributed four baskets to the success of the day, Dave and Girling one each, and Houghton and Woods three apiece. Houghton, besides, placed the ovoid in the meshy receptacle nine times after fouls. Individually the playing was ·brilliant and effective. It is to be hoped that the final 'varsity team has been or will soon be picked, for without sure, absolute team work, such as was shown last year, the Garnet can not hope for such a record as was then made. But constant practice with the same five in the same positions will bring sure results ... Reports from· West Point sh9w tb.at it was only. ,during the last few minutes of play that the team. work~9. together as is its wont, but th~n p1ade up . . ' for its former uncertainty. Such seem.s: to That sometime during the present season the \.Garnet\ will . meet a team that will neither wait till the second half to start pl;:ty;ing: .nor . when the . second half comes around be too tired to play anyhow. \Jake\ said. in. chap~l Monday that all the Army could do in the second half was to stand around and watch Union play. ·This isn't. be the problem. which confro.nts \Fre~~' Dawson. Reports fron1 the game also placed laurels on J. Beaver's, \Tee~y\ Woods' and \Erny\ Houghton's respec.tive brows for playing star games. Tha,t's enough stars out of a team of five, otherwise we would include \Dave\ and \Wally.\ By the time the \ re3;ches the college the result of the Cornell game will be known. It is also common knowl~dge that the team is being put through strenuous work in pr~paration for this game. . ) a kick, just a grouch. . . In the ,secon,d 1 half !Union cam~ b4-ck \\ f ', • l t ~ ~ 4 • ~ • • ~trong, q1-ttpl~ying their onp?ne~ts .in eve_ry 'i ' . ' feature of the game. They \opened up\ Following is a summary of the game:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 ... \ - . . '• ' ' ' ·' Union. Fdg J. Beaver, rf ....... - ............ 4 D. ·Beaver, lf. . .....•...•..... 1 Woods, c. . ...... , .............. 3 Houghton, rg. . ....••........ 3 Girling, lg. . ................. Q 1 Totals .......... :t· •••• 8 ••.••.•• 12 Army. Fdg McTaggart, rf. . ........... .' '.0 I<.ilbqrn, ~r£. :; ................ 0 Waldron, If. . ................ 2 McBride, c. . ................ 1 Williams, c. . ......•... ~ ..... 1 Boye, rg. . ................... 0 Ho:well, rg. . ................ 0 Bibble, lg. . .................. 1 Boyler, lg. . ................. 0 Totals ..................... 5 Fg p 0 8 0 2 0 6 9 15 0 2 9 33 Fg p 3 3 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 3 13 MR. VILLARD'S LECTURE. \Fair Play to the Negro\ was the subject of the lectut.e vvhid~ was. given in the college chapel Monday night by Mr. Oswald Gar- rison Villard, editor of the New York Even- ing ·Post. · What tbe present condition of the negro is, and Il.ow it can be bettered formed the theme of his lecture. Mr. Vil- lard began his adclress by telling how the negro is rated in the south; how he is not allowed a share in th.e governtnent, although thousands of negroes are large property holders. He told of the disgraceful and inadequate provisions made for the educa .... tin of the colored cllildren; and showed how this lack in schooli:ng is a great handicap to the blacks. Mr. Villard also gave many startling examples of unjust punishment which is constanti:y being inflicted upon the race, and the '\handred and one ways\ in which the neglo is made to feel his in- equality. M·r. Villard who has given much time to the study of the problem gave the audience some convincing arguments showing why something should be done immediately to educate and elevate the race. He stated that he desired to judge the race and to estimate its possibilities by the best speci- mens, and not by the poorest as is the case with most Americans. Mr. Villard showed that to eliminate the great race tension it would be necessary to educate the negro thoroughly; to give him a share in tbe running of the government and to apply large doses of the Golden Rule. The lec- turer replied to the statements which south- erners are so ready to advance for the con- ditions of the negro and showed that it will be necessary for the American ·peop,le to go in with the spirit of co-operation and lift the negro out from under the pressttl'e which is now holding the race down. Oswald Garrison Villard is a grandson <>f William Lloyd Garrison the great anti- slavery champion and has come naturally by his keen interest in the negro. He is at the head of the National Association ·for the Betterment of the Negro and has given m'uch time to the careful study of condi- tions, statistics and needs of the blacks throughout the country. He is doing e:x- cellent work in the society which stands out prominently as the only organization out- side of the race which is doing anything to help the negro. Mr. Villard is closely 'I connected with Union through the Bigelow Memorial Committee, of which he is secr~­ tary and treasurer ; and although a graduate of Harvard, he is keenly interested 'in the welfare of John Bigelow's Alma Mater. 1\tr. Villard spoke briefly to the stud~nt's aft~r chapel Monday noon.

12 AT LASTt the r-ep1y. We bad not been visibly encouraged by Last night was the eventful evening for the long-looked-for Freshman Banquet. The frosh slipped out of town at all hours of the day for Troy, where the dinner was held at the Rensselaer Inn at 8 o'clock. No, the 1917 boys didn't get away without drop- ping a hint of the time and the place of the function, for many of the sophs were wise and were out with clippers and shears. This edition does not permit of a long write-up on the affair, but we wish to say in addition that \Steve\ Story was introduced as toast- master by Oliver Underhill, president of the freshman class. \Steve\ called upon the following for short talks: \Don\ Starbuck, '15 ; \Dutch\ Naumann, '14; Dr. \Mac\ and Dr. Barnes. It has taken a long time to frame up the 1917 banquet, but the success with which it was run o# was reward for the the t:esult of this departure, so we went off on aaother slant. \'Wb-when will it be open when it is open!'., \What?'' \T:hat is-well, I m,ean what hours?\ '\Httmph ! Say what you mean then. pooh()()m, 11-12 a. m., 3-5:45 p. m. For gene:ral use, 10-12 a. m. and 2-:6 p. m.\ Tb.a:t was better. Clearly he was begin- patience expended. INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ~'GYM.\ \'We'll beat Cornell-good-day!\ \Doc Mac\ swung around to his new mahogany desk in a most business-like and conclusive manner, and the interview was ended. Union College physical directors are far from the easiest people in the world to get \Concordy\ news from, especially when they are just building a new gym and the time is after four in the afternoon. Despite the conditions that would undoubtedly have taken the heart entirely out of many men such as Joseph Pulitzer, we had entered the lion's den, bearded him much better than we had expected and escaped in plenty good enough condition to write up the story. \When ·will the gym be opened for rou- tine work?\ we had ventured for a starter. \Don't know anything about it. Have ab- solutely nothing to say on the subject,\ was ning to like us. I'd try again. \Will the use of soap be compulsory?\ \WHAT! Will the-what 'd you just say?\ Iatuition told us something was wrong agabL We concluded to change tactics. \I said, what kind of soap will be used?\ \Umm in a somewhat molified tone. \Thought you said something else. Here are the rules,\ and he handed us a copy of the 1'ules appended to this article. Our stock wa& soaring now. With difficulty we cloaked a desire to sing. Out came a brilliant idea. \You ought to be proud of this gym, Doctor.\ Then we knew we'd hit it right at last. He straightened up and looked about him. His eye tan over the spacious- up-to-the- minute office ,;vith its rich, shiny furnish- ing-s. A glow of honest pride dropped over his fa.c e like a hood and, leaning back in his roomy swinging chair with bands thrust contentedly in his trouser pockets, \Doc Mac;' dropped the longest speech, so far as we know, that he has ever given a fresh- man outside of class. ~:'young fellow, vve've at last realized tlle new gym. We've done it throttgh the co()-peration of the college with its alumni, and it'~ a gym of the alumni and of the co-llege. Of course, most of the college's re~ponsibility was assumed by the faculty,

but its ~ssentially of the students them- selves. It's right up to you as individuals to show you I appreciation by taking up the responsibility of preserving it in tqe very best of condition you know how. I can't do it individually and neither can you. The student body has got to do it as a single unit. We've drawn up a few simple rules to follow in using the buiiding, but if you haven't a loyal interest in the n1atter they wont do a bit of good. I can't be running around the gym all the tim,e with a stick, y' know. Just keep it in mind that it's for use and not abuse and whenever you catch a man breaking a rule take him down in the tank and soak him awhile. You'll be doing me a personal favor!\ Whereupon a chap came in with a bill for \steen thou\ and broke the spell. We append the rules : Open for general use, 10-12 a. m., 2-6 p.m. Swimming pool open, 11-12 a. m., 3-5 :45 p.m. No smoking allowed at any student func- tion in any part of the building. All visit()rs are required to occupy visit- ors' galleries on the second floor. Appropriate costumes will be required o£ all using the gymnasium. Regular costumes will be required of all freshtnen in regular classes. Black rubber soled shoes will not be al- lowed. Soiled clothes will not be allowed to re- main in lockers. All visitors in the poolroom must occupy the visitors' platform. All persons using pool will be required to take thorough bath before entering the tank. Bathing suits and trunks will not be al- lowed except upon public occasions. Regular one-piece bathing suits will be required of all contestants upon public oc- casions. · 13 All suits must be freshly laundered after . USlng. Wet bathing suits must not be left in the lockers. Do .not remain in t:he pool longer than twenty minutes. Never go into the pool alone. PROHIBITION CLUB FOUNDED. On January 12 a number of the students rnet in Silliman Hall to discuss the feasibil- ity of founding a prohibition club at Union. [t was decided to establish here what will be known as \The Prohibition League of Union College.\ Little was done at this· meeting except to adopt a constitution and to talk over what should be the nature of the meetings. The constitution which was adopted is that which is recommended by the !intercollegiate Prohibition Association for every local league. At the last meeting, which was held· Monday night in Silliman Hall, the follow- ing officers were elected: Raymond S. Blodgett, '15, president; Lee C. Fletcher, '16, vice-president; M. D. De Forest, '16, treasurer, and Passage, '14, secretary. R. E. Taylor, '16, was elected reporter. The Chi Psi fraternity held an informal dance at its house Saturday night. MUSICAL CLUBS. The combined musical clubs are to have a busy time for the next few weeks. On January 27 the clubs will give the annual Schenectady concert, and for this appear- ance much new music is being prepared. It is the plan of the clubs to give Schenec- tadians the best program possible. On Fri- day of next week the clubs will journey to Hudson Falls, where they will sing and play, and on Friday afternoon of Junior Week a special program will be given for the house-party guests.

14 'THE CONCORDIENSIS (By Webb, '14) Leslie and I were discus- sing justice when Hal, a studious sophomore, entered the room in time to hear the k h ,, . . remar t at a Just man 1s honorable.\ \Now I would like to hear your definition of an honor- able man,\ he remarked, while taking a chair. \Tell me what determines whether a fellow is honorable or not.\ \I presume you have an excellent definition in mind already,\ I replied; \and .. --;-- since you have doubtless been thinking on the subject more than we, your opinion is worthy of first place.\ \Who is honorable, in your opinion?\ asked Leslie, taking up the argument. \Well I think a fellow is honorable if he always does as the majority of his asso- ciates direct,\ replied Hal with a knowing air. \I believe the rule of the majority is nearest right, and that it is honorable to follow such rule.\ \You say then,.\ replied Leslie, ''that it is honorable to follow the rule that is most nearly right; that a good man is n1ore hon- orable than one who's acts are bad ; and that intentionally bad acts are dishonor- able.\ \Certainly.\ \Then in so far as a man is just and good he is honorable, and accordingly as his acts are unjust and intentionally bad he is dis- honorable.\ \Exactly so.\ \But are a man's acts just because he does as the majority do? And is there ever a time when the act of the majority may be wrong?'' asked Leslie. \Not that I know of,\ replied Hal. \But what do you say of the acts of a mob? They are sometimes very wrong. And if an act is wrong for the mob would it not also be wrong for any individual in the mob?\ \Doubtless replied Hal reluctantly. \Then the individuals of the mob in doing as the majority do, sometimes act wrongly, and in so doing they are dishonorable,\ con- cluded Leslie. ''But dismissing the mob, the honorable man is law abiding; and since our laws are the rules of the majority, does he not govern his action by the rule of the majority?\ argued Hal with confidence. \Yes replied Leslie, \if the laws are just. But there are instances when govern- ments have created unjust laws.\ Feeling convinced that his former defini- tion was defective, our friend Hal added, \In order to be honorable a fellow must act in accordance with his reputation. A man wins honor and respect if he does what others expect him to do. This definition must be logical, for others surely expect a fellow to do right.\ \Y ott are getting the best of me, I fear,\ said I-~eslie slowly. \But what do you say of a gang of thieves? Does not the gang, as a whole; expect each member to commit crime? and do you not hold that the one who commits the largest thefts is most highly honored by the gang if he is success- ful?\ \Surely-he is most highly honored for his success and his skill in not being caught.\ \But his act was wrong. And did we not admit that in so far as a man does wrong he is dishonorable? And moreover if the gang honors the worst criminal is not this a

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 :false honor; and also would you not say that ,his reputation was of one sort when considered by the gang, and quite another sort when considered by just people?'' \Yes perhaps.\ \Then is it not true that a 1-nan's reputa- tion varies a~mong different people, and can- not be a guide for right action,? Moreover reputation is the result of one's acts; and in order to gain a good reputation good con- duct must preceed it.\ Here our friend Hal balked in his argu- ment and demanded of Leslie that he give his own definition. \You have given me a hard task, but if you are patient perhaps we can come to some conclusion,\ answered Leslie. \For clearness let us consider a sbudent trying exams. Would it be honorable for him to crib, although the fellows about him might be dishonest?\ \Certainly not.\ \And would you say also that his honesty should not be solely because the other fel- lows are honest?\ \Our previous arguments show this con- clusion to be logical.\ ''But should the student be honest merely because of fear of being caught violating the Honor System?\ asked Leslie. ''Doubtless there are some cases,\ replied Hal, \even as some people are compelled to live orderly because of fear of imprisonment or death for criminal acts.\ \But must we not admit that such people cannot be considered honorable, even though their acts may be good. They might commit crime if they had a fair chance. Should a man have freedom of choice as to whether he shall act justly or not, and if so, must we not admit that the honorable man, in the strict sense, is he who chooses to act justly?\ \There can be no doubt of it,\ replied Hal. \But we have no way of determining that he shall always know what is right.\ \It is his business to find out what is right before doing anything; hut if he is defective or abnormal in intellect, we must exclude him from the class which can be honorable.\ \Now I see,\ exclaimed Hal, &'that the true standard is within the man, not guid- ing him from without. It must be con- science or reason. And the fellnw with the most honorable character is he who has liberty to do either right or wrong, but who wills to do the thing which his conscience, or power of reason, shows to be right.\ \Now you have exactly my idea of an honorable man,\ said Leslie. tOOTH ANNIVERSARY THIS FALL. This is the lOOth year of the occupation of North and South Colleges by \Old Union.'' Next fall a celebration of 1the lOOth anniversary of the movin~ o:f the college to these buildings will be held, probably in conjunction with University Day. A committee consisting of Trustees Barney, Cameron, Strong, Rice and Mc- Murray has been appointed by the Board of Trustees to take charge of the celebra- tion. T·he plans for North and South College and other buildings to be erected later were executed by Jacques Ramee, the French en- gineer who laid out the City of Washington, and these plans will be observed in the Bigelow and the Butterfield Memorial Buildings. The University of Virginia is laid out on the same general plan, and it is believed that it was patterned after our college. The background of Dr. Nott's portrait, which hangs at the front of the chapel, shows the proposed round building and a part of the colonnades.

16 T·HE CONCORDlENSiiS THE CONCORDlENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y .. , as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Raymond Van Santvoord, '14, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D. Sherman, '14, N 9rth Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, '15; D. A. Couliter., '15; H. N. Hubbs, 'rs; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, 'r6 ; M. D. Ketchum, '16; R. E. Taylor, 'r6; L. R. Van \.Vert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, '~4, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Xarl E. Agan, 'I 5, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHENECTADY ART P~ss 2o6 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. (This Issue of Concordiensis was edited enti:t:ely by W. C. Baker, 'IS.) feeling of great satisfaction; Evan Williams is to give the second of the concerts Febru .. ary 13, just before the •·'Prom.\ The ques .. tion has been asked, \Why not make the concert one of the events of the Junior Week program?\ Maqy of the fraternities are planning on taking their guests to the concert before the \Prom and why wouldn't it be a good plan for the commit- tee in charge of the course to give the stu- dents a reduced rate for their house-party guests? This would make the concert a Junior Week function and a splendid enter- tainment preliminary to the \Prom.\ The concert m1ght even be held in the ne'v gy~mnasium if the chapel were found too small for a Junior Week audience in addi- tion to those who already have tickets. Alma Gluck, who calls Union \her col- lege,\ will give the last of the musicales in March. It has been said that some sort of ovation ought to be given Alma Gluck in order that we might show her it is \our college,\ too. Someone has remarked, \Union is a place where an attempt is made to make the students a bit finer, a bit more cultured in addition to efficient.\ Let us COLLEGE MUSICALES. The committee in charge ()f the college prove it 1 Let us remember, too, that it will take more than seventy Union men to give Alma Gluck a genuine Union welcome! musicales has announced that seventy stu- dent tickets have been sold for the course this year. This is indeed gratifying, for it shows that many of the students are taking advantage of these splendid opportunities to hear some of the finest of concert music. Two years ago only fourteen tickets were sold among the students, and last year the number increased to forty-eight. Last week the first of these musicales was. held and all who heard the Adamowski Trio came away from the chapel with a THOSE FRESHMEN AGAIN. For the first tin1e in many, many years of Union's history the senior class has de- cided to give to the freshmen precedence and let them run the college. The faculty have already taken serious steps along this line and are going to waive all claims to guidance and instruction to the freshman

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 class. They find that these young gentle- men are eminently fitted to take things Ln- to their own hands · and direct the affairs of this institution. Prexy Richmond is go- ing to select a council from the 1917 class and make it his advisory board. Now that ·we have the position of tbe freshm·en well defined let us propose a few \' radical measures for the betterment of con- ditions here upon the Hill. The first meas- ure of reform proposed is to let the fresh- men wear any sort of hat or cap they desire. This is a great step in progressiveness, as the freshment already look so much like'\ the rest of the college men that no one will need to see them wearing a green cap to know that they go to college. Moreover, any old cap will do, and, if green should be selected, the more shades exhibited the bet- ter, for is not variety the spice of life? Another great step toward advancement is the doing away with that pernicious habit of saying \Hello\ when one meets another stude. It is .certainly true that this old- fashioned custom is antiquated and obso- lete and was fit for Osleric treatment many, many moons ago. This step will be a great one for the promotion of modern thought and wisdom, for what man wants to be continually interrupted from deep and weighty cogitation upon the absorbing and engrossing subject of \Will I be late for Proctor's\ to speak to some other student who, by chance, attends the same institu- tion? It is, indeed, an insult to sapiency and sagacity when concentration is permit- ted to be exposed to the ruthless chattering of some foolish personage who wants to offer that low, common phrase, \Hello.\ In accordance with this great wave of educational reform it is suggested that the singing of Alma Mater be abolished. What a waste of breath and words to voice in song such a rhyme devoid of sentim,ent as the \Song to Old Union.'' Far better be it to save the breath and energy for some far more elevating form of modern syncopation written \a la tattered cloth.\ Down with that which is ancient and dusty and give us something that is fresh and crisp and new. And no·w, freshmen, if you have perused this little article down to this point, think over what was written above and don't believe a damn bit of it-you are not going to usurp the function of the senior class, the faculty is not going to bow down in defer- ence to you, and Prexy looks upon you as a mere acquisition of numbers. · Also you are warned that there is only one form of freshman toque, and that has been brought to your attention before. That hue which is peculiar to :your present sta- tion in life is not at all obscure and dark; on the contrary, it is quite vivid and should weil be so. Failure to comply with or to observe this little rule wi11 subject the of- fender to the forceful arg11ment of scissors applied to the hirsute appendage. Sopho- mores in sufficient numbers are around the campus to enforce this little rule • If you do not know how to say \Hello\ the English Department will gladly give instruction in the articulati()n of that com- bination of five letters. You'd say it to a

18 telephone-why not to a fellow stude? It is well to remember that disuse of the vocal organs is liable to subject them to atrophy, and it is indeed evident that this has oc- who is infatuated with a popular actress, and who attempts to write a c·omedy for her, will be staged in connection with the Glee Club concert on the Friday afternoon of Junior W ee:k. The following cast will be seen in \The curred in many instances. The words of the \Song to Old ·union,'' which is our Alma Mater, if you have not remarked it before, may be found in the Christian Association Handbook. T·o all Union men that song is sacred, and ignor- ance of the words is, to say the least, shame- ful. Now the next time that you have an opportunity, get into that song for all that you are worth and stop looking vacuous and mumbling incoherently something of which you know you are ignorant. Napoleon once stated that in order for a man to give orders he must first learn to ' obey them. In just so much you will never make a good senior if you have been a poor freshman. Keep this in mind if you have any aspirations toward ever reaching the estate of an upper-classman; govern your- self accordingly. DRAMATIC CLUB PLANS. Members of the Dramatic Club met Mon- day afternoon in Silliman Hall to elect offi- cers for the year. George Wadsworth, '14, was selected as president; Walter C. Baker, '15, vice-president; Frank L. Smith, '15, treasurer, and Howard Santee, '16, secre- tary. Alfred Meneely, '14, is manager of the club this year. The club has decided to produce a thirty- minute \skit entitled \The Bishop's Comedy,\ a dramatization of 1VIerideth's short story of the satne title, by Dr. S. P. Chase. This clever bit of comedy, which deals with the troubles of an English bishop Bishop's Comedy'': Miss Kitty Clarges, an actress ......... . ....................... Walter C. Eaker Augustus Mainwright, an actor ........ . ................. ,, ....... Thos. A. Dent Bishop of W estbo.rough .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . George Wads worth Mrs. Lullieton Meadows, the bishop's wife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Howard Santee Susanne, the maid ..... Jacob W. Gauger In the preparation of this \skit the cast will receive no outside coaching. Later in the year the club hopes to stage a longer play, which is being written by one of the students. A general call for new members for the organization, and for tryouts for the final public production, will be issued fol- lowing Junior Week. HOW TIMES HAVE CHANGED! 1854-1914. In glancing over an abstract of the laws of Union College published in 1854, the editor was led to wonder how the present generation of Union students would tolerate the enforcement of that code of conduct laid down for our grandfathers. Did you ever ! Did you know that among the things re- quired of all the students were : That they should keep their rooms neat and orderly; that they should keep a pail or bucket of the kind prescribed in their rooms; that they should have their rooms scrubed and white-washed; that they should supp 1y themselves with wood as soon as the weather required it; that they should be tn their rooms and pursue their studies from ~ : '

. ' ~ : ' '. ·. THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 9 to 11, from 2 to 4, and in the evening after 7 o'clock; that they should r,eturn home immediately after examinations close; that they should be answerable for moral con- duct during vacation; and that they should read the laws at least once every term? Did you ever know that some of the duties and powers of the president were: To ex- atnine students for admission; to assign to students their rooms ; to treat the students with great mildness, kindness and modera- tion; to provide the music; to allow public speaking during commencetnent week, but at no other time; to excuse a class from recitation, but this was never to be done,.. unless on the Fourth of July, fast or Thanksgiving days ; to attend evening pray- ers, or provide someone to attend in his place? Did you ever know that some of the things not to be done without permission were: Leaving town in term time; being at a house of refreshment at night; being present at any entertainment given either in town or ~t college; being out of rooms in study hours or at night; remaining in town during vacation; using tobacco in any form; going to the city post office or rail- road depot during study hours ; joining any secret society, and going over one mile from college? Did you know that atnong things forbid- den were: A vowing or propagating infidel principles; profaning the Sabbath by noise, excursions from college, etc.; speaking pro- fane or obscene language, lewd conduct, etc. ; playing cards, billiards, or other un- lawful games; using intoxicating liquors, keeping gun power, fire arms or deadly ·weapons of any kind about person or in the room ; striking of insulting any person ; throwing water or other things, or calling from the windows, or throwing things in the section, or in front of the buildings, or sitting on the terrace railing; attending dancing school during term time or at the close thereof; carrying light into society halls at night;, the use ,of camphene or any burning fluid in any rooms in college; oc- cupying any other seat in chapel than the one assigned; making tHtnecessary noise in the sections; purchasing any articles on credit without the leave of guardian; sleep- ing or lounging on bed during study hours, and wearing the hat in recitation rooms or chapel? FROSH AHEAD IN INTERCLASS BASKETB'ALL. , Up to the present time the freshman ·basketball team has shown itself to be su- perior to the three other class teams. The 1917 five has made a perfect record thus far, having defeated the sophomores by the score of 32-18, the juniors by the score of 22 to 17 and the seniors 27 to 26. Good- ' man is acting as captain of the freshman team in the absence of Haubner, who is reporting with the 'varsity squad. Next in standing to the freshmen are the junior and sophomore teams, each having lost one game. The 1914 quintet holds the last po- sition on the list. Four more games remain in the interclass series for the William B. Joseph trophy. These will be run off on Saturday and next Wednesday. Saturday's games will be be- tween 1914 and 1915, and the two under classes. In the final contests 1914 will op- pose the 1916 quintet, and 1915 will match up against the freshman team. Much in- terest has been taken in the series this year, and a goodly increase :in class athletic rivalry has developed. SIGMA XI LECTURE. The next of the Sigrna Xi Society lec- tures will take place on January 30. Fred- erick Edwards, formerly instructor in the

' . . i I 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS coilege engineering department and at pres- ent chief engineer of the Saratoga Reserva- tion Commission, will lecture on the ''Reclamation of the Mineral and Medicinal Qualities of the Saratoga Waters.\ T'he following lecture of the series will be a joint meeting with the Phi Beta Kappa Society, at which the Rev. William Sullivan, formerly of Schenectady, but now of New York, will be the speaker. The last meeting will be held in May. Dr. W. R. Whitney, head of the Research Laboratory of the General Electric Co., will talk on research in its relations to in- dustry. BARNARD DEB·ATERS OF COLUMBIA LOSE TO UNION ADELPHICS. Columbia University and Union College met in debate for the first time when the Barnard Literary Society speakers took a trip to Schenectady to interview the Adel- phic speakers on the evening of January 16. At twenty minutes after eight, Professor McKean took the chair and announced that the question was, \Resolved That the State~ should adopt the principle of the minimum wage for women and children employed in stores, shops, factories and by public ser- vice corporations, and the State itself.\ He also remarked that the Barnard Club was the champion of Columbia and the Adelphic Society champion of Union; therefore, this was to be a ~'battle of the giants.\ With a few more words ·of introduction he presented the visitors as supporting the affirmative, and the debate was on. It was a good debate. The Columbia men insisted on the need of legislation to help women and children. But they failed to show from experience that mtntmum wage would accomplish the needed reform ; considered the public only in the light of the future, and left ernployers' interests en- tirely out of consideration. The negative showed that mlntmum wage increases th,e problem of the unemployed; is unfair to all parties concerned, and that it would he in~ expedient to adopt the affirmative proposal; the speakers, however, insisted too strongly on an exact literal interpretation of the ques- tion. The judges were: Judge Henry V. Borst, of Amsterdam; D. M. Brookman, D .D., of Albany, and John A. T. Schwarte, of Sara .. toga Springs .At the request of the Barnarc team, the decision was given without con .. sultation, and resulted in a two to one ver .. diet for the Adelphic Society. The NeV\· Yorkers frankly admitted that everything was fair, and promptly adjourned to Glenn's with the negative speakers, and Professor McKean. The Union boys were pleased v.1ith the result, for it vvas a good team which they defeated. Claude B. Petchtle, '16, the first speaker, though he finally resigned, was picked as a regular member of the Columbia 'varsity team last year; Samuel Hayford, '14, who followed him, is also an experienced man; and Albert Levitt, a Phi Beta Kappa post-graduate, was once 'varsity captain for Columpia. On the negative, Richard E. T·aylor, '16, had never debated before in public ; but Raymond S. Blodgett, '15, and Captain Donald A. Coulter, '15, are exper- ienced men and are the second and third speakers on the Union 'varsity team this year. In direct argument each speaker was limited to nine minutes; in rebuttal the first and second speakers were limited to six minutes, and the captains to nine. The Adelphic team has requested the r~- porter to express its appreciation for the hearty coQperation of Professor H. G. Mc- Kean and Doctor R. T. Hill previous to the debate ..

r d THE CONCORDIEN.SIS 21 GARNET BOARD CALLS FOR HELP! uating class. T·he affair will be presided The editorial boarci of the Garnet is mak- over by the trustees and faculty of the coi- ing rapid progress. It is the plan of the lege and the seniors wil1 be their guests. board at present to have the JUnior year Another sub-committee was appointed to book out on Moving-up Day, in lVlay. ,consider activities for Can1pus Night. A Editor-in-chief· Faust reports that the as- number of interesting ,events for this night signn1ents for the literary department are were suggested, one of which was a singing coming in splendidly, but that he will need contest for the students. more material for this department of his The Commencement activities this year book. There is much literary talent on the will be the best that Union has ever had, \Hill and much that is not contributing for the indications are that the alumni are to the Garnet. This fact is deplorable! making more elaborate preparations than Short stories, poems, classroom jokes and ever before. The classes are better organ- sketches will be very acceptable. The ized and committees are being formed to editor is also anxious to obtain at once consider reunions and plans for the week. small photographs of various students and of \stunts.\ Every man on the campus can help Faust and his board 1nake this year's Garnet the best the college has ever had. COMMENCEMENT PLANS UNDE~ WAY. 1914 Commencement Week Promises to Eclipse the Exercises of Previous Years. \' The Commencement week committee of the Graduate Council met with a full at- tendance on Saturday, January 10, to dis- cuss plans for Commencement Week. The plans have not taken any definite form as yet, but they have been well started. A special cotnmittee has been appointed to take care of the decorative lighting. This year not only will North and South Colleges, Nott Memorial Hall and the Campus be lighted as they were last year, but the new gyn1nasium, with its arches, will be outlined with electric lights, and other new lighting features will be added. A senior ball committee has been desig- nated to confer with the senior class in re- gard to the annual ball which closes up the festivities of Cornm encement week. In- stead of being a class ball it will be made a big college function in honor of the grad- PROFESSOR BENNETT HONORED At a recent meeting of the New York State Classical Teachers' Association in Syracuse, Professor John I. Bennett was chosen president for the present year. SNOWBALL SCRAP. In all probability a \snowball scrap\ will be held this term between the two under classes. As yet there has not been enough snow, nor has the little which has fallen been in the necessary slushy condition-a predominating characteristic of the scraps. Last year no scrap was held because of the lack of snow. Two years ago 1915 won the battle from 1914. When the favorable day arrives, the Terrace Council, which has charge of the arrangements, will post no- tices both on the bulletin board and in the engineering building. NOTES OF THE CHEMICAL DEPART- MENT. The department has just received from Mr .. R. J. Wysor specimens of iron ore, iron, steel and slag to illustrate the process in use at the Bethlehem Steel Company's plant. Dr. Ellery has just placed an order for a

I' ,,I ' ! 22 fine electro-analytical apparatus for work iri ~qu:ar~tative ttnalysis and; ·also' in d1ss'ocia:.. tiori · dfl 1 compounds 'by e1ectro1ysis. · Thete h~s· also ··b~eh -an order ··placed for a new vacutirn and pressure pump, so that here- after the laboratory will be piped. for both air· suction -artd · air pessure. ~ Mr: ·1\.· J. Salathe has been appointed a member of the committee to make out the examination papers in :chemistry for 1 the ~egents · Department in Albany. MISSION ST'UDY CLASSES CAN'T BE FROZEN OUT. ''Charlie\ Male and his sturdy corps of helpers proved theil.:·wotth last week when they' gath~red a large bunch of fellows to- gether in Silliman Hall for the mission study classes ,11otwithstanding that the proverbial Jack Frost without was trying his best to break the bottotn from the thermometer. The \stormy winds\ did blow, but the fel- lows stuck it out. ''Charlie\ just asks a square deal from the weather-man and then he will s]10W the felloWS a r·eal COUrSe in mission study.· ·-'The speakers at Vesper Services for the I·,' • rest of tl1e term will be as follows : · Jan. 22-Day of Prayer for Colleges. Rev. ~ockwe11 Harmon Potter, D. D., pastor First Congregational Church of Hartford, Conn. Subject: \The Best Investment.\ College Chapel at eleven o'clock. ' 'Jan. 2S-Rev. J. V.Moldenhawer, D. D., pa-stor of Second Presbyterian Church, Albany. Subject: \The Spirit and the Practice of Prayer.\ Feb. 1-Mr. Harris()n S. Elliott, Bible Study Se·cretary of Y. M. C. A. Internattonal Committee. Subject: \The College Man's Aproacll to the Bible.\ · ·r jFeb. S-Rev. B. W. Rogers Taylor. D. D., rector St. George's Episcopal Church. Sub .. ject :·, '~-Men and M'annets.\ Feb. 1.5-J unior Week. President Charles .. ~ ' Alexander Richmond. College Chapel at 12 noon·. ' i • • · • ... ~ • . •• : , Feb. 22-· Dr. F. N. Seerley of the Asso- ciation Training College, Springfield. Sub- ject: \Social· Purity.'! Mar. l...........,Dr. W. J. Swart, formerly Medi- cal Missionary in Siam. Subject: \Some Incidents of Medical' Mission Work in Sia1n.'' J\1ar. 8----Rev. 0. R. Miller, State Super- intendent of the New York .Civic League. Subject: \The Fight for Clean Govern- m.ent.\ Mar. 15-Rev. George Dugan, D. D., pas- tor of Fourth Presbyterian Church, Albany. Subject: \Your Ideal.\ THE PRESS CLUB. At the last meeting of the Press Club Dr. R. T. Hill offered some valuable sug- gestions for improving the general useful- ness ·of the club.~· In or<:ler to increase thes efficiency of the club· it' has been decided to concentrate the heretofore scattered re- sponsibility of sending out news. ~ nder the direction of Dr. Hill, the club will en- deavor to· bring speakers upon various vo- cational subjects to the college for the bene- fit of club members ·and for the student body in general. PREXY'S DATES. Alumni dinners galore confront President Richmond for the next few weeks. He will attend the dinner of the Albany Alumni Association January 27th. He' will go to Amsterdam to attend an alumni dinner there ·January 29th. There is another alumni dinner at Rochester February 2nd, and still another at Buffalo on February 3rd. Prexy will, of course,· attend both of these. President Richmond will preach at Wells Cortege February 1st. , ·

t . y ,, ' . . - THE CO·NCORDIENS)IS ~lchenectady's Greatest Drug Store Telephon~ a_nything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. ~ ! ~ \ ' I • ' • . ; Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. \' \ . . Sieefel_ Bros. ALBANY - Do your Ho_liday _plans include a Winter Suit or Overcoat? If so come to Steefels-thousands of gar- ments--hundreds of exclusive styles, no delays, and dollars saved for the trip or the dance. $Io to $6o We want you to see our : . ~ • • ' ' :'lo ; ~·~ f>' • new Mackinaws ..! • l .~ l '. • '•Up to the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes,. - - . . ..... - We have changed our Location STULL BROS., Tailors New Waiting Room \ ' Entrance Lafayette or State Streets ( . A Good English St~le EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. H·eywoods 14 to Is. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. H an.ans $6 to $8 • Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & .HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PA.TRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS BARNEY'S Where Everybody Shops. Studerits will find that they have every- thing at ~ ~ BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Schenectady's Gre11test Store SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S 'Rindfleisch Parisian -Dye Works. . Yale's Boat House The largest and best equ·ipped in the state. Excetlent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri· ate Parties: only, in connection with hoase • ~ • • • • 29 Fron.t Street Both Phones Fine Fu~r11iture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announ:ce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing - - - Furni:shings - .... Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two~Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429' State St. Schenectady v. E. Wbelden, Mana 1 er Arcade Hall, lear N. Y. C. De put 'Phone 2723-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONOORDY ••

THE 'C.QNCORDIENS[S N. M. READ PU:BLIC STENOGRA!PHER Room: 74 Parker Building-Phone 620-W. Makers of Caps, Gowns and Hoods 'f;o the American Colleges an.d Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty Special Rates to Students 3J. lJ. W4tarlt D:BLICATBSSE·N '''Joe\ caters to the student. Break .. fastbetw;een classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'PHONE 298- W 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners' H · · . , . · · 1gg1ns ( I ~ I Drawin~ lnka Eternal WritinQ Ink Enazrossinaz Ink Taurine Mucilaaze Photo Mounter Paate Drawinjl Board Paste Liquid Paste Magic Electric Regina ~lectric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirta and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasic>ns, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men I t Office Paste V eQetable Gluea, etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro~ sive and ill-sme11ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Vislhn~ Cards WeddLni -Stahonery \Stt.stne s Cards·Leh~r Heads Class Pins -Mono~rams Crests. Coats of Arms etc . .OUhON£f\S [ NGf\A,VE.*\S ~~IN'TEf\S ~MBOSSI:\$ PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

I\ ;' i11 lj' ' 1 \\1 I ,q \ I i'\ I : ,,'; i'; ,! \it :.\ ·,I ~~ I • li ' , I• , : I I> ' t·· , \\· ' 1 ;,; '' ' II ' :. l ·' I, I , '' ' ': i': l ' 'I : I ~ ' ; i A R Z . • · ' Q h furnished music at Union College 1905 . . Ita s . rc. estra 'o6,. '07, 'o8, '09, 'IO, ·xx, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W On·ly d1e Best Service. None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany HOTEL AND RESTAURANT Broadway and: Maiden lane Albany, N. J. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street L VQN'S The Store With Over 1 I xoo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY o. D. Ev.eteiah OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Jrnf. 31. i. il(tlgulltn For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2108-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J llutnu N nttnual1Sank tltlttnrrtnllg. N. I· Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY \

f- THE C.QNCORDIENSIS THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof . Orchestral Concerts during d:nner lind . after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL FURNITURE The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases . Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady The chances are 3 to 1 that that Snappy Overcoat was made by WATERS \THE RIGHT TAILOR WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.A.TRONIZlilJUI

THE CON·CORDIENSIS Warmth without weight outer coats. Now ·is the time fellows $25.00 to $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN 617 State Street Class, ''Frat,\ Club, Poster, Stunt and Her Picture · Have you a picture in. your room? And don't all th.e fellows pic:k it up? . ''Midnight Oil'' Let us frame it so you may still have ·it i. whenCalllpUS days.are over. ! Is a Thing of the Past The Gleason Book Co. •· 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building ' '·On your way to the Post Office'' SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLO·WER SHOP · ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' - JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street The clear white light of Mazda has revolutionized the study hour. If studying or reading is a pleasure, Mazda will in· crease· this pleasure. If cramming is a drudgery, Mazda will lighten it. USE MAZDA LAMPS Schenectady Illuminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT [N THE _, CONCORDY ••

• THE CONCORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MOE ;O~EWILDE' Hatter and ,furnisher. Trunks and Leather Coods f&n!lli, t4.t iSnrbtr 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart , McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 N9. Pearl St. 2nd SHI~TS SOc Alban1 Agency for Whit nan's 112 No. Pearl St .. \Ou Business ir Growing\ DANKER ·· Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany -10 a11d 42 Maitlm·.Lane r Albany, N. Y. ,, __ ... '.. ~ . --· P .A:T:fi~li:i~E- ,iouR ·PAPER'S PATRONIZERfii

I I I I I' 'I • I I I : i; I ' l! I I :! \ '' i :I I 'I I I 'I I!~ ~ \ I' '' i , I THE C.O,NCORDIENSIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music F urnlsh~ed for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET . . A complete department food atore The best in everything for the table at the. loweat cash prices 31 0 State Street, Schenectady Engleman & Bellinger PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A .. SQUARE DEAL,. for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy. \ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G Spaulding & Bros 126-128 Nassau Street • • • 520 Stb Ave., New York Send for CataloQue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE ,, I ;. '·' Quick - Active • Service 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. ·· The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros. • Sweaters Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL SHOES Cigars Ice Cream Soda • . . . . The Best Made Shoes in the ·world St. RegiS Pharmacy, 200 ·Unlo·n St. . They wear longer-· they cost less. Prescriptions Accurately Compounded ENDICOTT - JOH·NSON and COMPANY Toilet Articles 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU 'SAW IT IN THE ~· CONC.ORDY '\ L !

,, I ;. '·' ., L ! iiumptnu J\lbuuy THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S ROSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi .. tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Peat·l Street 467 State Street Albany, N. Y· Schenectady, N. Y. ESTABLISHED 1850 I. '· W4nrn ~nus JEWELERS Be SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY. N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

Good Clothes SAY MEN: We sell Hart, Schaffnet & Marx Clothes, and you .. ,. know that a store that sells H., S. &.M .. Clothes sells !he right kind, and naturally must sell the. right kind of · other things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ \!'e think you·lllike us and our '!_ay of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press J, '

et J, ' UNION COLLEGE LI'B,RARY. Vol. XXXVII No~ 12 The e e one or JeDSIS Published Weekly by the Students of Union College \Rough Work Wins for Cornell\ \Is Civilization Worth While?\ \Union Overwhelms Brooklyn 'Poly'\ \Freshman Banquet\ JANUARY 29th. 1914

i i ' ' ''I I ,I I 'I ,, I I , I l I UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES AI~EXANDER RICH MONO, D. D.~ LL. D .. Ch~ncellor. UNION COLLEGE 1 The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: l. CoorP.u.~s l«\ndimg fC) the degree of A. B. CI .. ASSICAL CouRSE A.-·· Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE. B.-Students may, at the dose of the SQphmore year, elect to become candidates for the deg-ree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. Z. VBur111e- INulimg to the- degree of Ph. B. LA'riN-SCIEN'riFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour111e leadlna; to tlte- degree of B. s. SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. f.. Coursf\ lending to the degree ot B. E. G1~N ERAL ENGINEERlNG CouRSE-This course offers the foundation o'f a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the c;ciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fe~sion, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANI'.I'ARY ENGINEEJUNG CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Eu~tTRICAL ENGINJ:r:RING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough eng-ineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. ~. <:omrst\'o le-a«<lng to grndttnte degrN.\e. Cotm sg LEADING 'l'O DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This eou rse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE J .. EADING TO DEGRF:E OF PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- ..;ion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPART1tiENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory workp prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: v\'ll,LIS G. TUCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPi\RTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. NEW'l'ON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui'ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: 1-'fatriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $I 10. For catalogue or other in formation, address: joHN C. W A'fSON, Registrar, . Albany, N. Y. DEP:\RT':;v1ENT OF PHARMi\CY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop . Just. Across from the Green Gate· ~A Y YOl y RA \\'\ I'r IN TH F..: \C'O~< 'OR I >Y\

-This of course admis- Y. E by prac- Y. Dean. of state d to its B. is fee, N.Y. seven N.Y. ' THE CO,N·CORDIENSIS In the''Wee Sma' Hours''· When you're \cramming\ for an exam- · When you're \bo·ning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that \condition\- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of\Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e r i n g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, • New York The sooner you pay us a • • VISit· that much sooner will you realize what clothes economy means Suits & Overcoats $10, $12.50 & $15 ' Clothes Shop 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

'! \ ' ' ,j .: ! ' i i :1 'I I i i: I , , I ' i! ' i : ,I I I i I ~: I jJ : ., ii i ' ' i ; 1 !t ! .. i i ' l ' • I i 1: I I :I I !I !: I I, I )' ' I 1 i ~ ! ; I ! : I ', I , \ . ! THE CONCO~DIENSIS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Sal:ted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin 'TBA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, E. H. SOUDER Jeweler and Optician 99 North Pearl Street ALBANY Special work in class pins, badges and medals. Students suffering from eye-strain and headaches should consult. GUS HERMANSEN, Optometrist 109 No, Pearl Street SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANR ALBANY, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, President T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-Preaident MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Trea1. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, · General Counael Main office, 4 7 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. K. H. Solaghian Photographs \While You Wait\ Fellows: Drop in. for an informal photo ~ you'll appreciate it later. . . . MERCURY PHOTO STUDIO 107 No. Pearl St. Albany, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

0 5 Y. . Y. THE CONCORDlENSTS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Autom~obile Supplies 524 Union St., corn~r Barret Ag~ncy for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow's Style To·d,ay in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you • will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M·. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. s~chenectady PRINTING TH:AT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AN.D ·o·N TlME &r4rntrtang Art Jrtsa J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. C.entre St., Near State Phon·e 1.823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the Javored among the College Boys and sclicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE ST~REET Telephone Schenectady ROSES ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS , 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland - l'on R'itter Company PRINTE·RS & BINDER·S Of high-class J>11olications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book J3inding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Pdn ting Plant in the city with a con1 plete bindery eq ui pmen t 149 Clinton Str~et, 'Phone 2896 .. J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\''-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it h.ere and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered . 146 NOTT TER~ACE TELEPHONE 4258-W PA\rRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

,; ' i: ' ' .' i· ,, ' i ,: i ' ' ' ' 1; I , I I . • 'I I ·, I THE CONCORDIENSIS ''The House: of Fine Clothes'' J. F. Leonard F. W. Mullin A. R. MuUill PROPRIETORS BABBITT'S 25 . t c h. <t;nuit & Q!nmpnu1r P er cen: as~ · · .· :J Clearance ·sale Includes our Famous Rogers- Peet, The \Frankel Fifteen \ AND THE \L \System Clothes The \L\ System is the finest col- lege style clothing made, and this sale presents the greatest oppor- tunity to all college men to dress in the highest grade clothing made, at a big aaving. The 25% cash discount is on all mixture suits, all overcoats, all fur and fur-lined overcoats as well aa all furs. A cash discount of 10% is made on all plain blue and black suits, all dress suits, Tuxedos and Prince Albert~, and Furnishings, Hats, Trunks and Bags. Babbitt & Co. 451-453 Broadway \Albany's Greatest C/others '' ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. When you Break your glasses send them here. We will repair them promptly. No waiting 3 or 4 days Meyrowitz Bros. 618 NORTH PEARL STREET SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY\

Visit Our Victor Parlor THE CONCORDIEN.SIS We Solicit Your Patronage You N~eed Our Guarantee Cluett & Sons ONE PRICE P:IANO HOUSE . !508 STATE ·ST.. . SCHENECTADY, N •. Y STEINWAY WEBER AND PIANOLA ;PIANOS SOLE DOCTORS '\If ,It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' Its the soles of the people we keep in view, For we are the doctors of boot and 'shoe, And we serve the living and not the dead, With the best of leather, wax, nails and thread. We can sew on a sole, or nail it fast, And do a good job .and make it la~t. There is nothing snide about what we can do, Doubt not our statement for work proves it true. We can give you a lift too in this Hre, Not only you, but your family and wife. A great many patients come to our door, Worn out and run down beside feeling sore. Though we don't poultice, plaster or pill, We cure all shoes, no matter how iU. m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. S. Kleiman, Mgr. 521 State Street · Telephone 34 56 HOL TZMA,N'S ESTABLISHED 1871· We have Clothed the Sons of ''OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADl .. ER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES (i] 229 State .Street 23 Stores LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn All styles and leathers • HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clot/tiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

l: THE CONCORDIENSIS WINTER SPORTS Are now on. Are you fally equipped? A visit to ALBANY'S ,LEADING SPORTING GOODS STORE Will suggest everything necessary for the e::xhilerating s;ports of this northern climate. -SKATES, SKA'.fiNG SHOES, SKATING TOQUES, SNOW SH,OES, SKIES, TOBOGGANS, MACKINAW COATS and SWEATERS ALBANY HARDWARE .& IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION: of a Sophm()re or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savin~s Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON ''The College Photographer'' WHITE, 229 State Street D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House .•NEAR BARNEY'~ College Representative w Joe Nusbaum Announces a complete showing of Fall Furnishings and Hats. He is the headquarters for Stetson Hats, Manhattan Shirts, Mackinaw Coats and sweaters and all things that are essential to the well dressed man. Joe Nusbaum 336 State Street SAY ·YOU SAW rr IN THE \CONCORDY\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 19()8 191

'. T E:T 909 .910 .911 ~012 .913 191 The Concordiensis VOL. 37 JANUARY 29, 1914 NO. 12 ROUGH WORK WINS :FOR CORNELL. The,re's very little to be &aid about the Cornell- Union basket baH ,gan1e last week~ in Ithaca.. Our boys went up there Wed- nesday, the news got bact< lteTe Wednesday night that the score was 2:} to 18 in fa-vor of the I thacans, and the te2m itself showed up, bedraggled and tired=' Thursday night. There isn't much to sa. y about the game in the first place because, according to \Jake\ Beaver, it was~'t a game of basket- ball at all. In the second place, there's nothing funny in it, as the sporting page editor has little chance to vv:reak his awful humor on a perfectly go()d sport. A philo- sophic thought is that thr:,ee more backets would have tied the score. Another is that three baskets too few and a. clean record at the end of the game for str<tight basketball without the assistance of pugilism (even in Hthe manly art of self-defense\) or the aid of a ~eferee's rather tactless tactics tnore than rnakes up for the loss of a game to CornelL Was it Poor Ricbard or Elipna1et Nott or one of the ProJ>I1:ets who said that something is much more to be desired than gold-yea, than much fine g()ld? Wl1Dever pulled that put it right a..cJ:oss. We leave the in,1erence with our ctts tomary sagacity to be inferred. T'he little apache da11ce in the Ithaca armory was fast going all tb.e time. In the first half Cornell outstepped Union to the tune of 15 to 8. Union's slow start was taken advantage of by the Ithacans, but in the second half the pace began to tell on Cornell and the \Garnet\ scored ten points to her opponents' eight. The small floor gave no chance for Union's fast open play and long passwork, while Cornell's third- rail style of play left no chance for a straight gam,e. (You know, or perhaps you don't, that third rail is the stuff with the kick in it.) There was no symptom of stage-fright on the team-all the boys played their heads off. Houghton alone was a tower of strength, outplaying his opponent in every department of the game, holding Cross to a blank score and dropping five baskets himself, as well as two goals from foul. The rest of the team were not so fortunate in \D \ holding their men to low scores. ave Beaver shot two baskets and \Jake\ one. \Peck\ Cleveland started the game at right guard. He stayed in the game til,: the middle of the second half, when \\iVally Girl-ing succeeded him in the far corner. The score: C()rnell. Position. Union. Brown ........................ D. Beaver Left Forward Cross ......................... J. Beaver Right Forward Haeberle • • • ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • • Woods Center

10 THE C-ON·CORDIENSIS J ordorf • ,_ .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Houghton Left Guard G. Halsted .................. , Cleveland Right Guard Field goals-Brown, 2; Haeberle, 2; J or- dorf, 1; Halsted, 6; J. Beaver, l; D. Beaver, 2 ; H ougbton, 50 Goals from fottl-I-Ialsted, 1; Houglrton, 2. Substitutes-H. Halsted for Haeberle, Shelton for Cross, Girling for Cleveland. 'rime of halves-20 minutes. Referee-Marshall of Maine. IS CIVILIZATION WORTH WH.ILE? A fevv weeks ago in the Sunday edition of the New York T'ribune you may have noticed that Dan Crawford, who returned to America :for a short time, after twenty- three years in the heart of Africa. ridiculed strong[y your methods of living. He spoke vigorous.ly against our civilization, ques- tioning whether' it were worth while. It started me wondering. Is civilization really worth while after all? What have we gained by civilization? vV e live all huddled np together in cities. We are de- veloping- defective eyesight, hearing, breathing. And as for vice-we have rob- beries a:.nd murders in the heart of our greatest cities, white slave traffic seems to flourish, and corrupt politics, and other things of Hke nature make one wonder if there really is a sane, honest, wholesome person in the country. At Hrst I thought-really civilization is not a thing to be desired. Are not the un- civilized. people happy? Do they miss any- thing- essential because they are uncivil- ized? Perha 1)S they don't know about it, so it doesn't bother their happiness. Well, next d~T f happened to go down to the Schenec:tady Library, looking for a certain book. 1 found the book, which was on Africa, by the way. Inside the cover I found an old, yellow, n1uch-soiled manu- scr.i pt. Of course, 1 :hutfolded it, and across the front page rea.:a·: \A few selections from the diary I kep~t while in Africa fro1n 1882-1909-A. J. \iV aierbury .. \ I pocketed the rnallnscript for fear the librarian would rernove it when I asked to take the book. vVhen I reached the house again I turned to a sort o£ preface in the manuscript and read: \Dear J ack-1 have prepared the few incidents about which you inquired. I sincerely hope they will meet your need and that by their aid you may obtain the res11lts you long for. I took them fron1 tny d:iary at random, so that you might feel safe in saying that they were not chosen with a view :to proving your point.\ Then I read the dl:ary, fro1n which I, too, made the selections as follows : \June 3-We must rise early, to journey before the sun become-s warm, for the poor barefooted folks find that the sand becotnes so hot that it cracks .OJ)en the soles of their feet, which ulcerate and so prevent them from traveling. Tbe traveling is in1peded greatly by the narrow ness of the trail, and the overhanging tr.ee~~ Some of the bushes possess sharp thon1s that must be avoided if one wishes to travel with a whole skin. ~'June 9-N ow vve are out of the tree land, and have con'J.re to that covered with grass ten or twelve ieet high. The nights are cold and the dew forms on this tall grass. When we start out early in the 111orning it shakes d<>wn upon us, wetting us to the skin. This makes it very uncotn- fortable for travelin::g, beca11se it is still cool early in the morning, although by noon it resembles a smelting furnace. Later in the year :ail this g-rass is burned off, and the land tales on the appearance of a charcoal deser·L ''June 12-T'oday I had my first awaken- ing to the horrors of the slave trade here. Ottr party was met by a party of slaves carrying ivory to the coast. I never ha v:e

the to the few I the not int.\ too, rney poor their and skin. tree with ights tall the COlTI- still by aken- here. have THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 seen such utterly wretched specin1ens of hu- manity in all my life. \ro you it is itnpos- sible to adequately describe the filthy, diseased condition of those poor human be- ings. They were not only scarred by the lash, but their feet and their shoulders, on w nich they carried the ivory, were tnasses of open filthy sores, upon which the flies swarn1ed, sucking the flowing blood. They had existed through that thousand-miles journey! Our trifling difficulties sank out of sight in the contemplation of theirs. It stirred me to the core. I walked up to one of the Arabs and spoke with him through an interpreter. I asked him if he did not see that most of those poor creatures were un.:r fit to carry their burdens. \ 'They have no choice. They must, or die.' \ 'Have you lost many on the way?' \ 'Oh, yes; numbers have died of hunger.' \ 'What do you do when they becorr1e too ill to travel?' \'Spear them at once,' replied the fiend. 'If we did not the rest would play sick. No, we never leave them on the road alive. They know how we act.' \'I see women carrying not only ivory, but babies on their backs. What do you do if she becomes too weak to carry the ivory? \i\/ho carries it?' \'She does. We cannot leave valuable ivory along the road. We spear the child to n1ake her burden lighter. Ivory first, child afterwards.' \I don't wonder such scenes drove Liv- ingston to his task. I shall surely do what I can to help continue it. \N oven1 ber 4-The fishing here on Lake Tanganyika is wonderful, b-ut not without its drawbacks. After a short excursion I and my two negro boys were sitting on the shore of the lake. They grew tired of the inactivity and went in swimming. I con- tinnally warned them against venturing far from the shore, but one of them wore a chan-n around his neck, and answered aU my warnings by pointing to it. What looked like a piece ·Of sugarcane came float- ing down along the shore. He swam for it with a gleeful shout. As he neared the object it seemed to suck him under, and with a lash of its huge tail turned and swam for deep water, leaving only a trail of blood. The 'cane' was a crocodile's tail. \December 10-Today I was awakened once more to the horrors of African 'civili- zation.' I stopped at a village at the base of the Kaboga mountains. I saw an object suspended nearby. It seemed to be a man hanging head downward. I inquired con- cerning the object. It is a slave who has been hung there to remove the disgrace placed upon the chief by having his son born with only three fingers. I went up to examine the n1an. There he was, hanging head downward over a nest of red biting ants. These insects are dreaded by every- one. They swarm all over one, biting viciously, and any attempt to drive them away only excites them to a fiercer attack. Around the poor victim's eyes some sticky substance had been smeared, so that the ants would not blind him. My canoe boys told me that the ants would not cross this substance, and that it was placed there so that he might see the ants coming at hin1, as they did in thousands. He was quite dead when we reached him. His body was a mass of sores, covered with thousands upon thousands of ants . \January 3-Today I saw the results of a native amputation. A man had crushed his leg and they had removed that member. They perforn1ed the operation with a par- tially sharpened ax, for they see1n to have found out that the arteries and veins close up more quickly if not cut with a keen in- strument. Of course, no anesthetic had been given the patient. \February 8-I learned how these people dispense justice today. A man had been

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS found with his skull crushed in. An old man was suspected, and although he loudly declared his innocence, he was condemned to the poison ordeal. They had taken the old man, together with the corpse, out into the woods. He was forced to sit beside it for two days, guarded by the male relatives of the deceased. No food or water was al- lowed him during this time. vVhile in that wretched condition, and having his nerves completely unstrung by the gre\vsome vigil, he was forced to drink poison. 1'hey said he fell down in a stupor. But since he did not vomit the ponson, he was adijudged guilty and immediately speared to death. They left him where he lay, to be eaten later by Lhe hyenas. . \March 4- Today I met my first .cannibal. While we were at anchor in a small creek a most hideous figure came and danced be- fore my tent. His face was scarred from smallpox, his eyes bloodshot, his upper teeth had been filed to points to enable him to tear raw meat. Catskins adorned his body. One leg was painted with white paolin, the other with red ochre. His hair was twisted into long pointed tufts, from which dripped oil and grease. After a startling series of revolting evolutions and uncanny shrieks, he dropped to the ground, ro 11 ed to my feet and cotnmenced cramming fist fulls of sand into his mouth and ejecting them. Through an interpreter I learned that he desired food. I commanded them to give him some maize meal. \'No he wants meat,' they replied. \ 'All right; give hin1 son1e of the goat's meat.' \ 'No,' he replied, 'the child of the lizard eats only live meat.' \'Live meat?' I did not grasp his mean- . tng. \ 'He wants you to give him one of your boatmen.' \ 'Te11 him I only use my men to fill my boat, and not hungry mouths.' He went away angry and sullen. I learned later that he was not only a cannibal, 1rut dis,_ interred dead bodies and ate them.''' I needed to read no further to carne to the conclusion that civilization was l':eally a benefit to us. In fact, I think I vvas con- vinced of much more than that. R. L. E .. , '16. UNION 15 YEARS AGO THIS 1\IO·If'I'H. Dean Ripton was confined to his. house with sickness during the whole Clnistmas vacation. President Raymond addressed t:h~ Min- isterial Association of Amsterdam (i)Jl De- cember 30. The Sophomore Soiree committee l.-eld its initial meeting on the twelfth. That Union is to have a basketbaJL team is an established fact. Fifteen basketball enthusiastics met in the \gym\ las1 Tues- day night (January 12) and took definite steps towards its organization. The new basketball outfit has be-eE added to the gymnasium apparatus. UNION 23 YEARS AGO THIS MONTH. January 30th was the day of pray-er. Rev. Dr. A. Raymond of Albany gave tile ad- dress at the chapel exercises. An alumni banquet was held on the 22nd at the Delevan House in Albany- The \Union College Alumni Association of Al- bany and Northeastern New Y ()rl<\' was founded. Senior and junior orations are due Febru- ary 1st. Arrangements have been compf.ete d for the Sophomore Soiree, which will take place in the Arcade Hall on the 11th of Febru- ary. A chapel choir has at last been ()rganized and bids fair to succeed.

ater dis,.. to 'I' H. De- d its dded Rev. ad- 22nd The Al- was ebru- for place U 10t1 C'O. -LLE. G .. E· ~ ~P-Sqi\a~ _ _ . __ I, ... a l:: ~ .;vr .Jl1-\ THE CONCORDIENSlS 13 By Webb, '14. \Well Leslie,\ said I after Hal had gone, \I've « • ·enjoyed your discussion about honor. I believe Hal understands your views of the subject, and sees clearly the importance of choice be- tween one act and another. I feel sure he is honest in exams; not because other fellows are honest; neither because he might fear pun- ishment if he was dishonest; but because he couldn't choose to be dishonest with- out being dishonorable.\ · --;--- \I hope he's that sort of fellow,\ replied Leslie. \It takes such men to uphold our honor system and keep it in working order. Some students may object to the honor system of taking exams, but if they have any better schen1e to offer let them come to the Tower Room and propose 't \ 1 . \I should like to uphold the advantages of the honor system to any fellow, Leslie, but at present I wish we might discuss the question of reputation. You stated in your argun1ent last titne that a person's reputa- tion varies among different people, and should not be a guide for good conduct. Now, do you believe that a person should never think of his reputation, and govern his action accordingly?\ \He should think of his reputation, but it shouldn't be the motive for choosing to do any certain act.\ \Then what should be a fellow's atti- tude?\ I asked. \Suppose we eo.nsiG:~r a freshman. He begins his life b~.e:re in a strange place, and under differerd condi- tions. Everything is new to hinli=' and he must adapt himself to many vary.}ug s1tua- tions. Now I maintain that he C<):nt10ences to build a reputation for hitnself 1~1:-om his first arrival on the can1pus. And b·y the end of the first term he has the rep uta ti()n of a hard-working student, diligent in his studies; or of a student who tries to shirl< :a..s ,much as possible; or else of some other ~c1utra.:cter­ istics give11 him at least by the -professors, and doubtless by most of his fellow·s.\ \His reputation is inevitable,\ inieriupted Leslie. \It follows him as surely as does his shadovv .\ \Then why should a student determine to make for himself a good reptttation as soon as possible? If he gets a bad name during his first term it may talce a long time and a lot of hard work to ga.k1 recogni- tion as a firse-class student.\ 'My argument,\ Leslie answered, \con- sists in his aiming from the stari t() be a first-class student regardless of wha.t the other fellows may think of him. With such an aim he need not worry about l:tis reputa- tion. It will eventually be true to his real self.\ 'What if he chiefly aims at ~aunn.g a good reputation, isn't this just as w.e 11 ?\ I asked. ''Not at all. In ain1ing for a g-o<Jd reputa- tion he may use false means for g-etting others think him a good studeaL He is likely to want others to think b.inl a better student than he really is; and thtls lle would be deceptive. On the other hand, if his chief aim is to be truly a good studen.t,. l1is acts will be consistent with his aim, a.n<l shortly others will have opinions of h 1n1 that are good. Don't you think this is fbe better way?\ \Yes; but I maintain that he (}Ugbt to be

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS conscious, nevertheless, that by doing right he will gain a right reputation.\ ''He cannot be otherwise. But in my opinion he shouldn't make reputation his chief motive for do~ng good work. He should do good work regardless of reputa- tion. The faculty and most of the students will give him credit sooner or later/' 'I agree with you. This is a big subject and deals with all rn.en whether in •COllege or not. I often wonder how many of us do things just for the sake of what others will think of us; or do we really want others to know us just as we knovv ourselves?\ 'It's a question worth thinking about,\ replied Leslie. SATURDAY'S DANCE. Those who saw the Brooklyn Polytechnic garne last Saturday evening, but did not stay for the dance that followed it, missed half of the enterta1nment offered at the \gym.\ Although not so rnuch of a financial suc- cess as the dance after the Rochester game, since the bad weather undoubtedly kept many away, the dance was a success in the fact that lit was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone of the Vernie Castles and Julia Sandersons on the floor. This was only to be expected, for it had all the factors that cause a fellow to like dancing: a floor not so slippery that it makes one do· a quite unintentional fancy step when one tneans to do a perfectly ordinary \grape-vine\; the kind of music needed for the dances of this week, and, especially, the right sort of part- ners. Considering these things there is no rea- son why better weather and the more itn- portant gatnes should not increase the at- tendance at these informal dancest for, as \Life'' says, \he who doesn't 'hesitate' is lost.\ THE JOYS AND SORROWS OF THE SECTION GANG. (Spud's Resolutions.) ''Say, Spud, how long do you think you'll keep it?'' \Keep what-that check I got from home to-day?'' \Why no; I mean that thing you have tacked up over your desk where by you 'do most solemnly resolve to desist £rom using all slang words, phrases or expressions.' \ \Do you think I'm going to break it, Pete?\ \Does the sun shine?\ \Well just to show you, mate, I'll make you a little bet and give you the best of terms.\ \What's your proposition?\ \Well let's see ; suppose I dollar for every time I break give me five for every week I \Is this a cash bet?\ \Strictly cash.\ \Shake.\ . gtve you a it, and you keep it.\ \Fine Pete; there's another twenty or so for my Junior Week fund. Oh, I'll get there!'' \Can't go down street with you today, Spud~ sorry, but Jingle cracked the one about the 'Vassar girl' today and that surely means 'see through glass darkly' tomorrow, so I've got to work out a few of these play probl e111s.\ \vVell. I'll see n1y only class physiology.\ \So-long.\ you later. Proctor's is on VVednesday--except It vvas late in the afternoon when Spud laboriously pointed his over-fed corporosity up the stairs. Pete pretended to be busy and was very diligently writing away on scratch paper as the big noise entered in a cloud of cigar smoke. · \ \Say Pete, that ·show::M: BliQCtor.'s iis··in

'do . s1ng \ it, of a you y or get one play 's . lS busy on in . . ts··tn ,, ·I I } ,'i. .; ~ .~ '· t: THE CON·CORDIENSIS 15 a class by itseH; you ought to take it in.'' Pete wrote a hasty sentence while feign- ing deafness. ''And, on the level, they've got a couple of the swellest dames in the last act you h ' . ' h ever-say w at s eatln on you, you caug t a grouch?\ \'Nothing; just lost interest in vaude- ville.\ \Go tell .it to Sweeny. What d'ye mean you lost your interest? Didn't I see that skirt you've been beating around this joint with, and didn't she tell your Uncle Spud that you tried to move her to Proctor's and that she wouldn't take you up? Don't try to pull any of that stuff on me. I'm,,. hep to you, old scout, and, believe me, I wasn't born in lazy weather, either. I'll tell you what's the matter with you, Pete; you're just gone nJ,lts over that Jane and you'd better cut it out before she hands you a lemon, unless she's already wished the pink slip on you.\ \Say how about your own love affairs, old man?\ \I should worry.\ Pete resumed his writing. \Not a brain in your head,\ he threw out in an offhand manned. \Thanks for the lobster, Pete, but you see it's like this-I'm hanging out in this dump with a funny kind of a guy for a room- mate. You're a candy kid in some respects, Pete, but the minute you cast your glims on a queen you're full of prunes right away and if she ties the can to you you crawl in a barrel and weep until another fluzie passes your way and wakes you up with the fas ... cinating rustle of silk skirts. Just take it from me, I'm wise to you, old pal. Say, what are you writing on, Pete?\ \WelL you see, Spud, I'm sort of hard up and I 'n1 making out an itemized bill for that twenty-five you owe me.\ \What do you think I owe you t\;venty- five :£or? Say, you must be asleep; turn over, you're on your back.\ \You owe m·e twenty-five dollars for twenty-five slang :expressions at one dollar each. Sorry, Spud, but it's a cash bet; cough up.\ \Let's see the bill.\ After a short saence Spud handed over his money and felt in his pocket to find the extent of his remaining resources. He had fifteen cents. ''Well ,that breaks up my big party for tonight. Theater in Albany vvith that girl of yours, etc., etc. Guess I'll call her up and tell her I'm sick abed.'' \No Spud, don't tell her you're sick.\ \Well what can I say-I'm broke?\ \No; call her up and make it two ; we'll have a little dinner on the side and do this thing up right.\ They embrace. CLASS BASKETBALL. Some of the juniors seem to think they have a real grievance in the matter of class basketball. They say that the Joseph trophy is meant as an award to the class best in basketbalL 1915 is bes~, for it has four regular players on the 'varsity. Pre- viously these men were allowed to work for their class, and, of course, 1915 won. This year they were not allowed to play, and the juniors say \tain't fair.\ Last Saturday 1914 went down before 1917 to the tune of 28-11. The juniors dropped a game to the \sophs\ by a score of 13-8. Yesterday two ri1ore games were played, but too late for us to print the score. Juniors, pay that hearse tax! The physics professor asked : \vVhat is laccolite ?'' 'Total darkness,\ replied the student.

16 THE CONCOR.DIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. Herman Hitchcock, '14, Delta Upsilon House. ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF~ Raymond Van Santvoord, 'r4, Psi Upsilon House. ALUMNI EDITOR Arthur D.- Sherman, 'r4, North Colonnade LITERARY EDITOR Thomas L. Ennis, '14, Alpha Delta Phi House. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. C. Baker, 'rs; D. A. Coulter, '15; H. N. Hubbs, '15; E. R. Hughes, '15. REPORTERS W. C. Louglin, 'r6; M. D. Ketchum, 'r6; R. E. Taylor, 'r6; L. R. VanWert, '16. Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. This 1ssue edited entirely by D. A. Coulter, '15. SUPPORT NEEDED. Perhaps you have noticed several times during the present college year that con- tributions have been n1ade to the Concord- iensis by fellows in no way connected with the paper. Such cooperation is an indica- tion that the students are taking- a g-reater interest in this publication. Besides. it gives the editors the long-desired opportunity to pick the best article fron1 several vossibi1i- enough ilo make the choice really dif.Hcult. What is needed is more articles to make the 'Concordiensis more truly ''A Literary aud News Weekly.\ It is true, however, that not aU of us have ·either the time or the ability to write very extensively for the paper. But perhaps you have noticed another tendency of the publishers. A 1913 man once stated that whatever the good points of the Concord- iensis were, it was \too dry.\ This year's board has ain1ed to overcome such objection by inserting bits of nonsense on the various pages. Here is a place where every man in college can help out. Every day a1nusing incidents occur in different classrooms; those in Johnny Bennett's alone would fill a book. If the fellows would jot down such jokes and hand them to any member Df the board it would help a lot. Thought the Con- cordiensis can copy stories from exchanges, jokes dealing with characters we all know would be more interesting. We know of at least one paper whose success is largely due to student cooperation in this single par- ticular. 1916-1917 DEBATE. 11Jl7 early won a good reputation in ath1etics. But so1ne wondered whether the class lacked real spirit until the banquet showed that the fellows were still alive. Now 1917 has a chance to show its mettle in another field: the sophon1ores have is- snecl a challenge to the freshtnen for an inter-cla::s debate. Fro1n the debating point of vievv, the contest will be particularly itn- ties. But con1petition is not yet been keen port ant. Inter-collegiate tnaterial is scarce

us rd- . 111 . fill the . tn the . 1ve. lS- an oint . 11TI- THE. CONC:ORDIENSIS 17 at Union this year, and new 1nen must be developed. Naturally everybody looks to the freshmen. It is· known that there are plenty of promising speakers, but they all need training. Let us hope that these fel- lows will get into the game. Re1nember, 1917, that this is the first underclass de- bate. DEBATING NOTES. Union wiil again try conclusions with Cornell when the colleges meet in their fourth annual debate on Februqry 20th, 1914. This debate, as in previous years, ~~ will take place in the college chapel. The men constituting the Union team are Jacobs, '16; Blodgett, '15, and Coulter, '15, with Sternfeld, '16, as alternate. The sub- ject will be the same as that used for the Allison-Foote and Adelphic-Barnard de- bates : \Resolved That the states should adopt the principle of the minimum wage for wo1nen and children employed in stores, shops, factories, by public service corpora- tions, and by the state itself.\ Cornell will undoubtedly send down a strong team, in- asmuch as Union has thus far won two out of the three debates. T0e sophomore class, following the ad- vice of the Debating Council, has challenged the freshn1en to an inter-class debate. The sophomores have presented the following subject for discussion: \For and against the corn111ission fonn of government for sec- ond-class cities in N evv York State.\ The freshn1en will be allowed to choose the side they wish to uphold. No answer to the challenge has yet been received, but now that the \n1ystery'' regarding- the organiza- tion of the freshrnan class has been cleared up, the \frosh\ V\rill probably take np the defy of the sophomores at once. 'f'his wi11 be nn entirelv new n1ethod of unoer-class ·' -scra-pp:1ng at Union and should prove pop- ular as a means of deciding at least one pl1ase of under-class s upre1nacy. Negotiations are under way for a debate between Union and New York University. It is ,expected that an agreement will be r,eached for these two colleges to debate later in the year. UNION OVERWHELMS BROOKLYN \P·OLY\ BY A SCORE OF 63-17. No Match for the Garnet, and Served as Raw Meat to Counterbalance the Suffer- ings and Privations at Ithaca. Does anyone know the correct score of Saturday night's game? Official scorers, student scorers and ourselves differ on this point. As a co1npromise let us set the score at 63-17. Who cares for a few measly points either way, when the Garnet wearers caged the ball in such rapid succession that all scorers suffered -from writers' crarnps? Suffice it to say that the Brooklyn \Tech'' tossers were so far outclassed that they might have wished that !their train had never reached Schenectady. A good-sized crowd began to gather in the gymnasium about 7:30. It was a fine night for a slaughter and the team si1nply had to find some la1nbs and the handiest were their opponents. Despite climatic conditions, everybody was there with lots of spirit and prepared for anything. And it was well they were, for what with \Buck's\ pet pack of agony harn1onizers and \the band\ and what witll \Dr. Mac'' stepping into the n1icidle of the arena. cheerfully an- nouncing that the train bearing the Brook- lyn players was late and that the ga1ne would not start for an hour or more, un- usual frivolity and nonchalance had to pre- vail a1nong the gathered assemblage. The team came on the floor early and vvere .g-iven a rousin1( ovation in appl·ecia- tion of their splendid fig-ht against Cornell.

18. THE CONCORDIEN·SIS They kept the crowd interested by snappy practice and long shots. When the Brook- lyn team appeared at last, they were greeted heartily, as better late than never. The game started with a rush. Brooklyn had all sorts of \pep\ and speed at the start, and things looked as if the game was going to be close and exciting. This in addition to the fact that Yale had nosed out this same team by only one point, and Columbia by eight. But their tale was soon told, and Union started its steady stride to victory. After the first five minutes it was never again a case of which would be the victor, but how big a score the Garnet could roll up in forty minutes of play. Brooklyn was forced to have time taken out for rest quite frequently while the Union players stood around grinning, and not even breathing hard. From our point of view it was glor- ious to see the fellows play rings around Brooklyn; from the viewpoint of an irn- partial spectator it must have been pitiful to watch Union's opponents try to follow that speedy five. To their credit it may be said that they took their medicine like men, neither delaying the game nor resorting to rough tactics. They knew they were out- classed and faced the inevitable doggedly. down the floor with the ball and fed it to one of the fellows who was a sure shot. Girling looks good, and given time will develop in to a fine guard, well qualified to be ranked as a peer of the invincible quar- \Teedy\ Woods at center was a phantom to his man. Always all over the court, he was even more so on Saturday night, so that his opponent soon put out distress signals and changed places with a forward. \Woody\ was the leading scorer, with ten baskets to his credit. The Beavers and Houghton scored almost at will. In the last part of the game \Earny\ obligingly put on a comical little skit for the benefit of everyone, known to his man as \Where Oh where is that wandering boy n1y captain told me to ride.\ ~'Wally\ Girling did not figure in the scoring, but played a wonder- ful floor game, breaking up many plays and long passes. _A. number of times he came tet. The team rushed the ball from the toss- up. Woods got the j urn p on his tnan every time and tipped it to one of the Beavers and a second later the ball was in one of the baskets. Time after time this was re- peated and Brooklyn seemed unable to break it up. Both Woods and Houghton pulled off a couple of those impossible shots and then cut them out for fear somebody would accuse them of \horse-shoes.\ The first half ended with a score of 25-7. In the second half the team started in to score so rapidly that the scorers were in the same position as the Brooklyn men-they could not stand the pace. Brooklyn was on the defense practically all of the tin1e, but man- aged to score 8 points, while Union hung up about 38 more. The score: Union (63) B. F. F.T. J. Beaver. lf ................ 6 D. Beaver, rf ................ 7 Woods, c. . .......•......... 10 1-Ioughton, lg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Girling, rg. . ................ 0 3 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 29 5 3 Brooklyn ( 17) B. Anderson, lf., c .............. 3 Young, H. . .............. , . . 2 Unger, rf. ................... 2 Weiser, rf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Eisenberg, c. . ..... 1 • • • • • • • • 0 Miller, lg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 Fishel, rg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 8 F.F.T. 2 1 4 0 0 2 1 10 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 - 1

to ot. to ar- of re- to ton In the F.T. 0 0 0 3 0 3 F.T. 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 - 1 THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 THE FRESHMAN BANQUET. The eventful night came at last,. and on the evening of January 21 the long-expected \frosh\ banquet became a reality. About ninety of the class of 1917, with their gu·ests, gathered around the festive board at \ye Rensselaer Inn,\ Troy, N. Y., and, protected by Trojan warriors, ate their evening meal in peace. The enthusiasm of the sopho- mores, which early in the afternoon caused the sacrifice by seven freshmen of their natural head-covering, gradually subsided, and only evidenced itself at the scene of the festivities by a bottle of asafetida being thrown in the banquet hall. The 1917 men had as their guests Pro-~ fessor Barnes, Professor Garis and Dr. McComber, \Steve\ Story, \Charlie\ Male and \Dutch\ Nauman. Story acted as toast- master; and all the guests, also President Underhill and Downs, chairman of the ban- quet committee, spoke. Many were the comments made about the banquet the next day. Charlie Male said that the affair was the best conducted of any in many years. Others noticed that the freshmen abstained from the flowing bowl n1ore than some upper classmen. The soph- ornores were adnlitted to the barroom of the inn, but when the proprietor found they were not drinking enough to suit him he ' let them go. They stayed around the vicinity till they found they could not get past the police and then boarded a car for Schenectady. By th~ way, to speak of shorn locks, have yo'u noticed lately A. C. or E. K. or R. S. of the freshman class? One sophomore is . . .. preserv}ng a pocketful of hair as a memento of the occasion. DOPE FROM \DOC MAC.\ All locker keys have not yet been turne9 ird,!by-:~the <thr~~ Upper ·~tl~sse~. 1 G:)Jni wbfk is cotn,pulsory for freshmen, and naturally they have to have the lockers. If the fel- lows will get the keys in right away it will help \Dr. Mac\ a lot. But this does not mean that only freshtnen can have lockers. ''Dr. Mac\ has offered to buy steel ones for all feUows who will order them by the first of February, and to have them on hand about a month after they are ordered. The prices are $4.00 or $5.70, and \Dr. Mac'' will trust the fellows tili June for the money. Such lockers will become college property when the owners are graduated. Help the college and yourself! THAT LOCAL CONCERT. The local concert given annually by the musical clubs is always an event of great interest to the students and one which af- fords a great deal of enjoyment to those generally interested in Union College. The concert will be given this year in the High School Auditorium on the third of Febru- ary. ~'Bill\ Mudge is writing a personal let- ter to each alumnus of Union in Schenectady or the near vicinity, and expects to make the night one of general enjoyment for stu- dents and alumni. Many plans are being put into effect by the clubs for making things lively, and new \stunts\ are plentiful in the Glee Club from all latest reports. It is expected that a ·large percentage of the students will attend the concert and give to the men who are representing us so splendi.dly in the line of musical activities the support which they deserve. Remember, fellows, you do not have to buy a ticket for yourself. t Just find a girl, get a ticket for her, and bring her along. Don't forget the time-next Tuesday night. DAY OF PRAYER. Dr. Rockwell H. Potter, '95, pastor of the First Congregational Church Qf Hartford, • o- 1 L \.<.: I ' ~ _ l torin., was t&e .. sp.eak:ei ·at. the services held

20 THE C,QNCORDIENSlS in the Chapel on the Day of Prayer last week. Dr. Potter's talk was on the ques- tion: \ls Godliness Profitable?\ Bringing out the relation of Godliness to the business world and the modern man, he showed the vital importance of it as an investment and for the obtaining of real happiness. Rev. 'C. A. Conant, '60, and the Rev. Clayton J. Potter, '00, occupied the pulpit with Dr. at any n1.oment, do not forget your training from last fall and we will put the feeling in that team, if such a thing is possible, from the side lines. Potter. Chapel was held at eleven o'clock instead of at noon, as has previously been the cus- tom, and college was in session during the morning. Holding classes on the Day of Prayer was an innovation, the object being to substitute the chapel exercises for the last morning recitation; thus the early part of the afternoon was not broken up, as has been d1e result in former years. The new plan brought about a much larger attend- ance than usual. ON CHEERING~ If the amount of noise the students make is an indication of their college spirit, \Old Union\ certainly has not lost a tiny bit of the spirit that the alumni love to boast of. Did we not \out-cheer\ the Hamilton men last fall, even when we were going down to defeat? It was the kind of feeling that came from deep down in every heart. The truth is, we could not help yelling on the bleech- ers; it was in us and had to come out some how. That is the only real cheering that we ought to do. Can any true \Union man\ see a \Union· teatn\ come on the field of com bat and not have an overwhelming sense of pride in their work and ability? At the last basketball game on our home court we gave but five yells, but did every- one notice that the \studes\ were up on their toes every minute? The applause was sincere, every bit of it. That is the way to feel and applaud when the team is ahead. If by chance our team should be behind Just a word of warning to the over- zealous who would like to be the referee on special occasions. Think twice before you give advice to either the players or the officials. They are likely to know more of the game than we do. To applaud the opposing team when they do a bit of excellent work is considered very good form and we wilt not be doing an in- justice to our own men by clapping a bit now and then. The men in the junior class who aspire to be \cheer leaders\ next fall ought to be- gin to work out before a looking glass, for it is a lot better to make a monkey of your- self before your own image than before the student body, and take it from one who knows, it is not half so humiliating. The cheering sections have not been defeated once this year, and we are not going to be defeated. \Buck.\ JUNIOR NOTES. The Prom. Cotntnittee reports that plans for the Junior Week festivities are very satisfactorily progressing. The gym pron1- ises to assume the air of a perfect fairyland of garlands and harmony. The n1usic will be furnished by Groscia, of Albany, who has of late furnished n1usic for many of the leading proms. of the east. That the event will be one which will afford p1ea8·ant re- flections later, in fact, that it will be the one event vvhich '\¥ill be remebered years later. is, fully assured. The management of the ''Garnet\ are working hard to insure the punctual issue of the book. They would urge upon all those who are working on its preparation

. ble, the of hey . In- bit . be- for our- the who The ted o be plans very will o has f the re- e the years are issue all THE CON·CORDIEN:SIS 21 to complete their work as soon as possible. Things done hastily are expensive and un- satis£actory, so do riot oblige them to be rushed at the last motnent. Faust would like to have pictures of the various organ- izations begin to come in . \Chuck\ Waldron, discussing Southern negro slaves: \Let's take,-Mr. Hubbs,- £ . J' or Instance . Professor J. McGregory of Colgate will lecture in the chemical laboratory on Feb- ruary 6. H,is subject will be, \The Liqui- action of Gases.\ B·LACK CAT. At the last meeting of the Black Cat Club, held in the fall term, at· Barney's Restaurant, Dr. Chase gave an informal ad- dress on Oxford University. Dr. Chase has spent several summers studying at Ox- ford and on that account the lecture was exceedingly interesting. In the course of his talk he gave a general description of the university, its buildings, its standard of scholarship and the life of its students. The members of the club present received a very good impression of the grand old school and are very thankful to Dr. Chase for his efforts. \ Last Friday the club gave a dinner at Goodman's and the officers for the follow- ing term were chosen. The following are the new officers: President, Norton, '15; vice-president, Delchamps, '15; secretary, Martin, '15 ; treasurer, Marvin, '15. A very important business meeting will be held here on the can1pus on Friday, Jan- uary 30th, and it is urged that all members be present. In all probability some new members will be taken into the club at that time. Y. M. C. A . The work of the industrial department is being gradually extended, so that there are now about a dozen classes held among the foreigners, with more to be organized soon. A meeting of those interested in industrial work was held after chapel Mon- day noon. The Rev. Harrison S. Elliott will be on the cam pus all day Sunday. He is the speaker at Vespers in the afternoon, and will attend a meeting of the Caibnet in the even1ng. Sona.• exr:eileut t·peakers have been se- cured for the Comparative Religions course of the Mission Study courses Tuesday even- ing. N. N. Iengar, '13, gave a very good talk on •'Hinduistn,\ with which subject he is thoroughly acquainted. Following are some of the speakers and their subjects for the rest of the term: Dr. R. T. Hill, Bud- dhism; Dr. Hoffman, Mohammedanis1n; Professor McKean, Confuscianism; Dr. Kellogg, Taoism ; Dr. Ellery, a sumtnary of the subjects discussed. T'he En1ployment Department of the Y. lVI. C. A. is short of jobs for those stu- dents who work while in college, and re- spectfully requests the cooperation ot any of the students who know of jobs which some of the fellows might get. INTER-COLLEGIATE NOTES. Mr. Fred Turner of New York City is to coach the Han1ilton baseball team this season. Trahen of T·roy has charge of the deco- rations for the Junior Prom at Hamilton. The Hamilton alumni are endeavoring to raise one million dollars to add to the pres- ent endowment fund of the institution. Cornell \frosh\ cannot use automobiles on the campus. Walking is plenty good enough for them. The following from the \Can1pus\ in re-

22 THE C.QN:CQRDIENSl'S gard to the Union-Rochester gan1e needs no comment: \The constantly recurring fouls, so-called at least, had anything but a fos- tering effect upon Rochester's team play, which suffered accordingly.'' The Hobart freshmen won their annual banner scrap from the sophomores. N um- bers counted in their favor. R. P. I. will be ninety years old next June. Following the example of ''Old Union,'' R. P. I. has organized a students' band, which has proved very successful. CAN YOU THINK OF A LONGER? What is the longest reversible word in the English language? By \reversible\ is meant a word that spells the same forward or backward; for example, the proper names Ada, Asa, Otto, etc. \Reviver\ and \ro- tator\ are said to be the longest words of this sort. SUFFRAGE AND INCOME TAX. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw may have started a new method in the won1an suffrage agita- tion. She refuses to pay her income tax, and returned the Government's information blank with only these words written upon it: \Taxation without representation is tyranny.\ THE WAIL OF THE STUDE. If money talks, As . some folks tell, To most of us It says \Farewell.\ CAN YOU BEAT THIS? ''I'm sure it is; 'Spike· told us to read it this week. Perhaps it was 'T'he Scarlet Yacht\?\ Again D·eWitt searched with no result. Finally 1917 looked in his notebook and said, \Oh! I beg your pardon. I mean the 'Rubiyat.' \ Just like a fr·eshman ! Dawson (in English class): Name some- thing of great in1portance which did not exist twenty years ago. \Me !\ said the smug looking freshman who sat in the first row HEARD IN PHILOSOPHY. Hoffy: \Plato was not able to settle this point.\ Hawley (loudly): \Well I can.\ Doctor Kellogg thinks Latin flows in a co~tinual stream. ~He seems completely una ware of the fact that his sophomore class is daily damning it. Professor Berg evidently wants to an- nihilate the engineering course. Else why is he so detertnined to kick out of college the best men in the junior class? They had just come from the physics ex- amination on heat. \Gee but that was a hot exam,\ remarked the one. The next subject to be taken up in that class was light. \Yes said the other, \but we are going to have a light exam next.\ One day last week a young and innocent \frosh\ went in to the Library and said: Harold met John, who had left school rather suddenly. \Well John,\ said Harold, 'what made you quit school?\ \It was all because of a remark the prin- \I would like the 'Red Boat,' please, Mr. Clinton.\ De Witt searched diligently and finally said, \There's no such book in the library.\ cipal made.\ \\iVhat did he say?\ \'John he said, 'you're expelled.'\

it ult. the me- not ettle . 1n a an- why ex- a that \but ' t \ . prtn- THE C.QN·CORDIENSIS :! Schenectady's Greotest Drug Store Telephone anything to Quinn's, Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anyth.ing you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY Do your Holiday plans include a Winter Suit or Overcoat? .,; If so come to Steefels-thousands of gar- ments-hundreds of exclusive styles, no delays, and dollars saved for the trip or the dance. $IO to $6o We want you to see our new Mackinaws ... '''Up to the Top in Gentlemen's Clothes'' We have changed our Location STULL BROS., Tailors New Waiting Room Entrance Lafayette or State Streets A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to IS· Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY P A'rRQNIZI;TI YOUR PAPER'S :P ATRONIZERS ·

THE C.ON·C·ORDIEN.SIS Wh~r~ Boer,bod, Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at - - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sches~ctady 's (;reatest Stor• SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.00 bench made waterproof Shoes- Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. Yate's Boat House The Ia~rgest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can he rented for Pri:· ate Parties only, in connection with house • - · - - • 29 Front Street Both Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing · - - Furnishings - - · Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing ...... -~ Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. Wbelden, Manager Arcade Hall, Near N. Y. C. Depot 'Phone 2723-J SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \

THE CONCORDIENSIS N. M,. :READ PUBLIC STE.NOGRAPHER 'Room 74 :Parker Building-Phone 620-W. Special Rates to Staden.ta Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~:::;:;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiil !i I ': Makers of i. Caps, Gowns . and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities from . tll.e Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty Vacuum Cleaners· 31. 31. ID~enrle DE~LICAT;ESSEN ''Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Ba<:k of St. John's Church 'PHONE 298-W 722 EASTERN AVE. Higgins' ( Drawing Inll:a- 1 Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing lak I Taurine MtJ.ciJa.ge i Photo Mounter- :Paste I Drawing Eoard. 'Paste Office Paste Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand ll Liquid Paste I ARE THE fiNEST AND BEST INKS VANitA~~EeSiYES Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Ftllows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street 'EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk hats, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Emancipate yourself from CJorro- sive and ill-smelling inks a.n.d adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' :INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and witllal so efficient. AT 'DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Broo1dy11 111 N. Y. VisLhn~ Car'ds WeddLn~ Stahon~ry' 'Bus1ne s Ca-rds-LeherHeads · Class Pins -Mono(ram.s . Cr~srs, Coats af Arms etc .. J)E.SIGNEf\S · .[ N G f\AVE. \S l'f\INTEf\S f.MBOSSeR,.S PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

. II :I \i _,. THE CON·CORDIEN.SIS A. R. Zita' s Orchestra !~~~~~~d·o~~:~. ~~o. 0 ·~i~n ·~oi~!J :~~~ Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., A:lbany HOTEL AN·D RESTAURANT LENS ·GRINDING A SP.EGIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPT0 1 METRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tested and Glasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New . Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON 'S The Store With Over Ioo,ooo Prescriptions. Sole Agents for C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Jrnf. 31. 31. ICilgalltu For further information see hand book page 52. JOHN Ba HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Glass Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: 'You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec- tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Stl'e•t Phone 3628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J Huyler's Bon Boos and Chocolates Kodaks, Premos and All Photo Supplies 1!1 uinu N attnunl iauk 8tqrmrtally. N. v. LYONS, Cor. State and Centre St. Safe Dep,osit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

THE 'CONC'ORDIENSIS FURNITURE THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. The Sterling Art Shop Fireproof Orcheatral Concert• during dinner and A place £or ~ift giving purchases. after the play 6 Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to ,6 o'clock.. Interior Decoratind. Aleo THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. 6 FIRE ROOF Both hotel• conducted on European PJan Under direction of WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. FRED'K W. ROCKWELL 212 STATE STREET Schenectady The chances are 3 to 1 that that Snappy Overcoat was made by WATERS \THE RIGHT T AILO·R WITH THE RIGHT PRICES'' 463 STATE STREET, up Stairs SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Of course we do CLEANING and Pressing. Let us call for your work TELEPHONE 1441-J PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

, I I I! ' ! THE CONCORDIENSIS Warmth without wei,glrt outer coats. Now is the time fellows $'25.00 to $75.00 J. J. HILLMAN For the compass, or pencil, sketching, or writing, or marking ''Lead be Pushed'' SAYS THE REVERSIBLE PENCI'L Our lines of pencils and leads range from 6B to 9H Koh-i-noor Venus Castell The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building '•On your way to the Post Office\ SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street 61 7 State Street ''M.d' ,·, ht, o·I', ' ·1 Dig' I Is a Thing of the Past The clear white light of Mazda has revolutionized the study hour. If studying or reading is a pleasure., Mazda will in- crease this pleasure. If cramming is a drudgery, Mazda will lighten it. USE MAZ'DA LAMPS Schenectady ll.luminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Q,nJy Best Work Done BARBOUR AND M'ANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS.. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \ ....

THE 'CON·CORDIENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N. Y. MOE DEWILDE~ Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Goods inss~ tltt inrbrr 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart·.·. McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. . 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack'' Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. 2nd SHI~TS 50c Alban, Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS,. VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 40 attd 42 Maid en Lane Alban,, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER•s PATRONIZERS

\ l . 1 I . ! ., I ;\ l :I I . l I _./ I i :; I . I : I l · .. I I . ! ' ·THE CON·CORDIENSIS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Music Furnished for all Oc·casions Telephone 2131-J 310 State Street, Scheaectady The Manhattan Co. · Engleman & Bellinger 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest caah prices Quick - Active - Service The Schenectady Clothing Company Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A .. SQUARE DEAL\ for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street • . pau ng · lOS. 520 5th Ave., New York · Send for Catalotue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. ·Y. ENDWELL SHOES Cigars Ice Cream Soda St R · Ph 200 u · St. The Best Made Shoes in the World I egiS armacy' DIDO • They wear longer-they cost less. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY Toilet Articles 206 So. Centre Street. Near State SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \

WQr ilnmptnn ~lbauy THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF EN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & S EATERS IN THE ClTY· All styles and materials-Cotton, Merce-rized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Ottr prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing l>usiness has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers.. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider tb is a personal in vi ... tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear ·Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 E. J. QJ~nru 46 7 State Street Schenectady, N. Y a nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS . - EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. PATHONL~E YOL'R P.Al'KR'S PATH.UNl:Z~HS

I ' : \ I, ' ' . eor l SCIIAfFNE .. - ........ &MA Good · Clothes SAY MEN: '!/ ~ sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells .. - !!te right kind, and naturally must sell the ~ght kind o~ ?ther things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ ~e think you'll like us and our way of doing business_: The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press

