THE: PVBLIS:HED·WEEKL Y BY· THE STVDE'NTS· OF·VNION· COLLEGE Vol. XXXVII MAY 7, 1914 No. 23

UNION UNIVERSI CHARL:ES; ALEXANDER RICHMOND~ D. 'D., iLL. D .. 'Chancellor UNION COLLEGE · The college offers the following undergraduate · and graduate courses: 1. Course• leadtns to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required fot ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to .study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is pre-requisite. 2. Conr•e Ieadtnc to the decree of Ph. B. LA 'tiN -ScrENTII\IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted. addi- tional work in modern languages and science. S. Conr•e leadtn.r to tlte dea-ree of B. 8. SciENTIItiC CouRst-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadin&' to the de&'ree of B. m. GltNERAL ENGINEERING Cou:ltSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the f.unda- mental principles of the special branches of tb.e pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELJ~CTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering · education. with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• leadlna; to craduate decreea. CouRsE LEADING To DEGREE or M. C. E.-This . cour-se of one year of graduate study consists of · lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c Cou::RSS LEADING TO DEGREli or M.S. E. E.-This course ()£ one yea·r o~f graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory pr.actice and research work. Cou:RsS ~ltADING 00 DEGREE orF PH. D;-This course of two years .of graduate study req11ires for admis- sion tbe degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information addres1 F. C. BARN~s, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MED£CAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations!J, clinics, laboratory work, prac- ticar demonstrations and operations. Hos])ital and laboratory advantaKeS excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS 'G. TucK!Ul.J M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMAS..A J. PA2KER., J. NEW'tON FntJtoJ . President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the uni-versity is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a buP ding whoUy devoted to its use. 1'11e course le:ading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $xo; tuition fee. $II<>. For catalogi.l!e or other information, address: JoHN C. WA'tSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALEANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instructi()n comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, ~go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St.,. Albany, N. Y. ''Everything for tlue College Man except Ex1ma\ GUNNING '16 S'WEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug ·Shop J·ust Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU S.AW IT IN THB u CONCORDT\

. .@·:~. ' ·~ '' In the'(Wee Sma' Hours''· When you re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your making up that ''condition''- Or when you're wrestling with the intracies of\Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c h e e r in g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady IllumintJting Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady,, - New York Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical or Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Sho~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

~ ' I THE CQNGORDIENSIS ''The H~use of Fine ·Clothes'~ The Season's Smartest Styles Now Ready at Babbitt's Sea son after .season this store has satis- fied the growing de~and for fi~e clothes throughout this tri-city territory. Babbitt's can sati~fy your most exacting apparel requirements in Rogers-Peet make ~nd other high-grade ~lot~ing at from $12.50 to $45.00. Babbitt & Co. • Jlala i4uurQ Steuben St., Albany, N.Y. ''Albany's Greatest Clothiers'~ 451-4'53 BROADWAY SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.0(} to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. A~BANY ART UNION Pho.tographs---Artistic 48 ~o. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \

I I . THE CON·CORDIENtSIS The Men Who Put The ... Fun Into Your Daily Life . ' ' ' w~TS well sharpened and minds 1n good humor. The man who has these generally knows what h~e is talking about. Read the testimoni- als on this page. Here are s.orne of the greatest cartoonists in the coun- try. They all smoke and endorse The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette ' . They wouldn't smoke Tuxedo if it didn't keep their m~rtds alert and cheerful all day long, day iri arid day out. A tobacco that .can do that stands in a class by itself. Tuxedo is made of the very high- est grade of choice, mellow, sweet Kentucky Burley leaf-treated by the original ''Tuxedo Process,'' which removes the sting so that it cannot bite your tongue- granulat- ed so that it smokes freely and uni- formly-packed 40 pipefuls to the lOc tin. Tuxedo deserves everything that has ever been said of it-and to prove it Tuxedo sells by the millions upon millions of tins annually. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch, 5 inner-lined with C moisture-proof paper Famous green tin, I o· with gold lettering, ( curved to fit pocket In Glass Humidors~ 5 Oc anp 90c FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps .for post- age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any point in the United States. Address THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1209 111 Fifth Av~nue New York 1209 T. A. DORGAN (\Tad\) cc Tuxedo can' t'he equaled . in soothing, refreshing quali- ' ties. Its mildness insures a pleasant smoke; Us coolness remove:J all chance of tongue bite.~~ .R.L.GOLDBERG qeator of ~'Foolish Ou.es· tions ,\ \I'm the Guy\ l'lfind in Taxedo a good tobacco. 1ts fragrance and flavor are fine. 1 use it re- gularly and end()TSe it highfg to all my friends. u ,(-/!~ BUD FISHER creator of \M11tt and Jeff.'' ''Tuxedo hastnade a pipe my /avorite/ormof smoking. Its coolness .and mildnes$ make pipe smoking a real pleasure. ' '

'i I ; ' l '· THE CON·CORDIEN·SIS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA :ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, 109 No. Pearl Street Clark & McDonald T:he 7'0 Year Old Jewelry and O,ptical House 23 3 State Street Schenectady ·F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard PRO PRlETORS A. R. Mullin <6uuit & aJnmpuuy ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. Are you undecided as to your aummer vacation work? Let me tell you how you can earn good money by handling our line of up·to·date household necessities which sell readily and at a large profit. Exclusive territory. WRITE TO-DAY. R. W. ABELL, State Agent 920 lning Avenue Syracuse, N.Y. Do Your Glasses Stay Put? If not, have you tried the ''Comfort Mounting?'' Order it for your new glasses or have it attached to your present lenses. Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, President T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice·Preaident MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Treaa. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, · General Counael Main office, 47 State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY ,,

THE CON,CORDIENSIS Visit Our Victor Par.Jor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee STEINWAY W:EBER Cluett & Sons ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE 5()8 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N .• Y i AND PIANOLA PIANOS Are You Progressing? •• \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' Are you in need of shoe repairing? • • If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fir~. m Athletic ·Goods Rubber Goods Auto ·Go·o·ds Auto Tires ttl Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works · Alling Rub her Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street F 0 d S · T 1 h 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores ree ' r er ervtce e ep one H 0 L TZ M A N 's' LATEST STYLE:S---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1811 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADI_AER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES [i French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known whereveJ' Good Shoes are worn All style& and leathers • HOLTZMAN'S. LINDSAY BROS. CO. SchmectQd:J 's Larg1st Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

I' ; ',' 1 . I. I' l· It' ! ll . ' . I '. , I . ·' . 't; . ' ' THE :CON:CQRDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., ~corner Barret .Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow's Style To·day ~iB a : Regal Shoe PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you · AND ON TIME will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent , ~t4tutttally Art Jrtss · J. H, COMO, Prop. 451 State St. Schenectady · 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1 823-J TILL~. The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL :STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company. PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and S pedal Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH AVENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 4258-W SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY ..

• I • '~' • .. '';!'. 'THE CON·C;ORDIEN:SIS N. M .. READ: puauc sTENOGRAPHER • Nrm ]lru~nmt ifntrl Room: 74 Patk er Building. Special Rates to Students . • Cotrell a·nd Leo:nard ALBANY, N. Y. Makers of Caps, Gow-ns and Hoods J. 31. ID4rurlr :DELICAT·ESS'EN ''Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church 'I'o the American Colleges and Univenities from •• 'PHONE 298-W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty : • 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners:.: H.. . ~·. , ·· 1gg1ns ( I ~ Drawing Inks Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste I Drawina! Board Paste I Liquid Paste l Office Paste V e~tetable .Oluea, etc. Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand ·.. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Fellows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. • 169Jay Street , EXCLUSIVE HATT.ER and 1 FURNISHER · E. & W. Shirt• and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasiona, Opera and Silk hat1, Best Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Man ufacture!S Branches, Chicago and London 271 Nintb St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Vis dan~ Cards W'edd,ntt Stahonery 'Bus1ne s Cards·LeherHead.s Class Pins -Mono(rams Crests, Coats of Ar~s etG . .J)~SIGNf.f\8 '[ NGf\AVE~S PftiNTEf\S fft1BOSS~~8 PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PAT:RONIZERS

'' I I '. 1 (' ' \. i:' 'I ; I ~ . ' . '. ~ ' J. :I , • I :j •, j ~ ' ' ! ' :·:' '! I .. 1 ,, (J • :;, ·. 1i' '· :. ' ' THE C~ON·CORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE Boys, now's the time to \G.o Fishing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a Go·o,d Outfit insures you against the petty anoyances and means 'Good Luck. We have a Splendid Line to show you-Call in Bristol: Stee'l Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trout Flys and Bait Everything ·:for the Fisherman ALB.ANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I arn your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PH:QNE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophmore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~ARN!~ 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street i:~ . ~~g D. B. pAIGE, Sigma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11909087 1913 College Representative 1914 I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, .Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. \Tango Shirts'' $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building ·. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

Th e C d o o i. oncor Iensis VOL. 37 MAY 7, 1914 NO. 23 DEB·ATERS LOSE TO N .Y. U6 \Of all sad words of tongue or pen; The saddest are these-· they lost again !H They came, they saw, they conquered- nnd the judges brought in a unanimous de.-. cision for the opposing team. This is a vest-pocket account of what happened to the debating team last Thursday night, when they met the team representing New York University. The subject was ~'The Minimum Wage for Women and Children.'; The Union team, which upheld the affirma- tive of the proposition, consisted of Avrom M. Jacobs, '16; Raymond S. Blodgett, '15 ~ Donald A. Coulter, '15; and Milton H. Stern- teld, '16, alternate. The opposing team was made up of Albert P. Lewin, '15; A. M. Fabrian, '17; Daniel Schwartz, '15; and Barry Chiert, ;16, alternate. It is unfortunate that the debate was held away fro1n home, for the Union men were never better. They delivered their argu~ ments in a clear-cut, convincing manner, without any futile pretensions to oratorical display. T~ey met each argument as their opponents advanced it, and, as was ex- pressed in chapel, seetned to impress all favorably, audience and opponents; that is, all of the audience except the three judges. Union's line of argun1ent was that the minimum wage was necessary, that irt its workings it would result beneficially :to employer, employee, and to the general public; and that precedent advocated the adoption of the minimum wage in the Uni- ted States. New Y ark claimed tbat the principle of the minimum wage wa.s contrary to eco- nomic theory, that it was hnpractical, con- trary to precedent, ancl in turn proposed industrial education as a substitute. They claimed that the minimum wage would re- sult in wholesale unem{)loyment and would force many concertl.s from business. Early in the debate the teams clashed on the defi- nition ot the principle of the minimum wage; Union claiming that it need not be a living wage, N. Y. U. disputing this claim. In the rebuttal Union was particularly strong, the same general outline being followed as in the direct argument. But tate and the three j 11 dg-es were opposed, and so the New York dehate must be plac.ed in the same class as last year's Cornell dehate-debates where the better team did not win. This is the last debate ·of the year, and so we 1nay take the opportunity of moralizing a bit. The season, was not entirely without success, though the defeat of the Barnard Society of Columbia was the only victory in inter-collegiate debating, while Coulter and Blodgett were on th.e winning Allison-· Foote team. But one thing is certain. If we did not win many debates this year it

'' ' I;' ' I ,, ,, ': i !' ' i i i ,: f ! l ' i , ,, ,, \ ; ' ' I '! ' ', ,\ ' \ :I •: I ,, l I ' ' I , I I •l ; ' ! I ~ I ·'' . il ' I : ~ 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS vvas not due to lack of exertion on the part of the four men who constituted the team, or of their able advisor, Prof. McKean. All these men will oe in college next year, and, vv-ith the added experience which another year will bring, we shall next year have a winning team. What they do want and need, however, is increased support from their fellow-students, not merely financial- though this would not be an1iss-but also personal. Next year there must be enough men out to develop two strong teams, two winning teams. Each of the men on the first team must be made to fight for his position; and fight hard. Reed Col'lege, of Portland, Oregon, has established an employment bureau to assist college students in finding sumn1er employ- t11ent. SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE Interest in spring athletics is at a maximum. Tennis, track, baseball are the season's attrac- t~ons, and the chief concern about the campus is how these teams will shape up. Baseball a.nd tennis are already under way and track will have its advent next Saturday. But now we almost forget all the spirited resolves of last fall for a stronger and better football tea111. We give secondary considera- tion to the knocks and bumps of the gridiron season. Baseball or track is keeping a number of football men in form, but many of the squad are perfectly at liesure. ~~ ... \:-4-~·~ .... This is the time for a good football revival. We must begin now to think of that buff and blue team on our campus. We must begin now to defeat them. Coach Dawson and Captain Starbuck fully realize this and an- nounce that regular light practice starts this week. Let them see everybody out with the squad if only to get the \feel\ of the ball ; freshmen especially studying all the rudiments and tactics of the gam,e. Union must have a winning team next fall PROSPEC'TS FO,R TRACK TEAM :SEEM FAVORABLE The track:: tea1n is \3.11 ready for the meet with R. P. 1., Saturday. The men are all in fairly good shape and should give the Rensselaer representatives a good fight. Owing tp the fact that the team has been unable to ,11se the new track in the R. C. Alexander a\thletic field it is not known just what is to ;be expected from the freshman candidates,. but we are confident that if Rens- selaer does aot make a better showing than they did against Wore ester our team will be able to report a victory. This is doubly de- sirable owing to the recent defeat of the base- ball team. The foUowing men have been entered in th:e various events : roo-yd; Morrison, Downs, Hyatt, Vianna, Mallen. 220-yd; Carr, Colson, Clapp, Walrath Baker. 440-yd; Dent, Mudge, Morrison. 88o-yd; Moore, Hendry, Stevens, Kuper- man, Scoby. One mile; Scoby, Sherman, Newton. I20 hurdles; Baker, Butler, Miller, Wemple. 220 hurdles; Baker, Hughes, Mallen, Downs. High jump-; Baker, Peterson, Miller, Mallen. Broad jump; Baker, Butler, Mallen, E. V. Jones, Tinldepaugh. Pole vault ; Butler, Jamieson, Miller, Ran- dles. Shot put; Stoller, Fletcher, Hagar, Gardner. Hammer; Stoller, Randles, Hagar, Fletcher, Sex on. J. V. BAKER. WHERE QUACKS SHOULD GO Cureall, Missouri. Quackenkill, New York. Fakes, Denmark. Fate, Texas. Graf Station, Iowa. Graves, Kansas. Death Valley, California. Cemetery~ California. -Boston Transcript.

I,, I'',, THE OONCORDIENSIS Hurrah for \Chuck\ Culver and the ''Purity League\! Ask Lewis, '16, and other members of the Section Gang. \Hitch\ says \Johnny\ Bennett had a fit in Greek class last week. Auspicious oc· · . h \H't h\? easton we surm1se, e 1 c · . George Wadsworth and others have been practicing the ancient and interesting game of \hit-and-chase-it\ on the campus. 'Slots o' fun, ain't it, Georgie? Is it true that \Bence\ Page will lead the Prohibition Club next year? We ask for information. A guy once made me awful mad; In fact, so mad until I turned to him in wrath and said) ~'you go to Sandy Hill.\ Dear Clat-How do the Catskill Moun· tains? Nutt. Dear Nutt-lt is, indeed. a long and sad tale. Come around to the office and we'll tell you. (Fooled ;em that time.) ; Where is that joke you were gotng to send to the Clatter Column? We understand \Bill\ Mudge is coach- ing the seniors in elocution. Can anyone give facts? In the spring a young man's fancy Often turns from thoughts of books 1 And he seeks in Jackson's garden All the shady little nooks. He lets the happy momenis flit_, The time runs by in chunks, And when the finals come around, He draws a lot of flunks. Knowing that the \hatchet\ must soon be buried, certain freshmen recently made use of it. Eh, Jim? INTERSCHOLASTIC DAY T,O BE LIVELY ONE Baseball and Tennis Teams Both In Action .. Moving Up Day is a week from Saturday, May r6th. Plans for the day's activities are nearing completion now and point to a very enjoyable celebration. The program for the day is much the same as in past years. The Moving Up exercises will be held in the chapel during the 1norning. As usual the Junior Class members of the Terrace Council will be chosen by the Seniors in conjunction with the other part of the exercises. During the after· noon the Annual Interscholastic Field Day will be held on Alexander Field and will be followed by the Union-Rochester baseball game and the Union- Vermont tennis match. The evening will be taken tip with the campus n1eeting, probably on the steps of the gym, at \vhkh t1me the track rewards will be given out. As customary, the Seniors will appear in cnps and gowns. Present indications are thrtt a record number of sub-freshmen will be seen about the campus during the day. According to Dr. Bernbaum o£ Harvard, \vomen as a whole prefer the home to the ballot. 'fhat' s all very well, but how about those ·who want both, others who want neither and still another vast numbers who don 1 t know what they want?

: l . ', i ' ., i :I '• ' ] 't j ,, . r ~ 't! I '' , .t l : l I ,: ' : : I , . \ ' ' . (, . I . I : ', ~ I : II !' ' ', ,·' : ',I, ! ' ,, '(.1 ' .t t '!j . . , i ,· . ·' •,; I . ' i' .• I '·· '' •' ' ' ',:l ,1' , .. ·.' i I I 14 1'HE CONCORDIEN·SIS THE FUNCTIONS OF TH.E COLLEGE Y. M. C. A. The question frequently arises on the campus, \What does the Union College Christian Association do?\ As a matter of fact, it would appear that a large part of the student body does not have very definite conceptions as to the functions of our asso- ciation. Some even feel that to actively affiliate with the work is to hypocritically assume a lot of virtues tending to make a \goody-goody\ type of boy. Nearly everybody is familiar with the tri- angular emblem of the Association giving equal weight to the development of a n1an as spirit, mind and body. This treatment is very apt to be misleading insofar as we are procne to think of these as separate en- tities with different agencies for the de- velopment of each. I-Iowever, the unity of the whole man is being recognized 1nore and more by secular agencies. The public school recognizes the relation between spirit, mind and body when it feeds the body before attempting to develop the mind. Athletic coaches take ad vantage of this re- lation in ,preparing athletes for physical contests. The three must not be separated, but must be taken together in any com pre- hensive plan for the development of the whole man. The time has passed when to refrain frDm doing things would characterize lack of manliness. Even athletes whose season is a short one may be in training throughout the entire year and be respected for taking such a stand. Psychologists are unceasing in pointing out our inconsistency in even tolerating the idea that a young man must \sow his wild oats.\ From observation, I believe it might be given out as a fact that most of the men who fail to make good in college are those who fail on the moral side. That is, the college failures are moral fail- ures. This may not appear to be the case to the superficial observer, but the state- ment would undoubtedly be verified by any- one who might care to make a thorough in- vestigation. For this reason the College Association should aim to get aU of the men connected with those activities which tend to positive moral and spiritual dev.elopn'lent. We are very apt to put our stress the wrong way and make our philosophy a negative one, en1phasizing the things we should not do. No point of view could be more fallacious than to assume that development may be obtained wholly by observing negative rules. It is true that in our physical de- ve1opn1ent we must observe certain nega- tive physical rules, such as :refraining from touching a hot stove, and refraining from atten1pting to assin1ilate poisonous sub- stances; but these rules only enter occa- sionally and incidentally and do not make up a very considerable part of the whole treatment of physical development. As a matter of fact, recognizing only negative rules would in no way be a development. It is just so with ou1· moral and spiritual development. Many are attempting to per- fect their moral and spiritual life wholly by observing what not to do, which is equiva- lent to attempting to maintain a moral and spiritual vacuum. A vacuum is hard to maintain whether in moral, spiritual or physical life. A man should attempt to fill his life with the things which he should do, and as a general thing he will occasion no very .great difficulty with those he should avoid. It is certainly true that the man whose scale of relative values is the re- sult of a normal healthy growth will recog- nize so many things which he should do that he will have no time or place in his program for the things he should not do, and consequently will not find it necessary to use up all of his energy in dodging them. In a word, the function of the Christian Association is to aid in the comprehensive progra,m for the positive developtnent of the whole man. C. T. Male. ' ' ..

. ' i THE OON·CORDIENSIS~ 15 FRATERNITY BASEBALL The fraternities this year h.ave not shown the usu.a1~ \pep'' which has been so prom- inent wit:h them in former years, as not a game .bas yet been scheduled. However, negotiati-o11s are under way; in several of the houses and it is hoped that it will not be long before a series is rn.ade out. The chapel attendance at Harvard is ten per cen-t, at Syracuse eighteen per cent, at Pennsylvania twenty-five per cent, and all have voluntary attendance. SIGMA XI HEARS LECTURE Last Tuesday, Langdon Gibson, a mem- ber of the Peary Polar Expedition, gave a lecture under the auspices of the Sigma Xi Society on \Animals of the Ancient Wor:ld.\ Mr. Gibson is a local man and is connected with the General Electric Company. After the lecture a business meeting was held. The election of new members took place at this meeting. ? • Hello! Hello! I'm glad to see That you have kept your eye on me. This week we are going to tell What it is that works so well 'i\Then you want to quickly find If a man's in his right mind. To be sober, he must say Both the words without delay; If he's \J:ii: the job's a crusher, Repeat distinctly, \PusHER's GusHER.\ It would cause me no surprise Should tn e question now arise, ~'Though ihe verses all I've seen, What does 'PusHER's GusHER' mean?\ The answer is well known to me, Watch tkis space and you will see. ... GARNET NINE LOSES T,O, R. P. I. :Game Air-tight Until Sixth. After Union batted in three runs in the ninth and t1ed the score and after two R. P. I. men had been retired in their half, a single run was squeezed a.cross the plate which gav·e the gam~e to the Troy engineers Saturday afternoon on the Rensselaer field. It was a hard gan1e to lose after that final batting rally although Union played a loose fiddillg game and garnered only six hits to Rensselaer's . ntne. Jenkins started the game for Union and allowed no runs until the sixth inning. He wobbled a little in the sixth, however, and the Trojans sent the :first run of the ga.mre across. In the seventh an error and two singles scored another run. Up till that tin1e Jenks had pitched good ball, striking out five men. Merrick, the R. P. I. pitcher retired Union until the seventh inning in one-two-three order, with the exception of a Merkle-hit by Teedy Woods, who earned a three-bagger but failed to touch second in the first inning. Merrick weakened in the eighth ancl ninth and Union pounded him for five hits, but he had enough juice to pull out of the hole with a tie score. For Union, Erny Hougbton's two hits and clever fielding, and Naumann's double and single, as well as fast :fielding, were features of the team's work. Five stolen bases went to Union's credit. There were no runs scored till the sixth \vhen Huych singled but the ball got away from Barclay and Huyck took third. Conklin flied out to Barclay who held Huyck on third. GaiJ agher doubled to deep center and Huyck can1e home. Gallagher, however, was caught out trying to make third on the throw home. Jenks walked Behan and whiffed Merrick. In the first half of the seventh the Garnet got on the bases for the first time during the g8.n1e. Dave Beaver punctured the ozone thrice and one-stepped back to the bench. Woods bent the ball over toward third base but was out on the assist. Dutch Naumann,

I , ''' ''' i ' I I,' '' ' I ' I , il ' ' ' ! ! ·. I· I• ': !J! 'f !~! )' ,. I·• ·:,. .' i.: 16 ' . ~ whose hits wer.e timely, doubled, but Barclay's fly was swaHoved by MeN anus. When the l'roj ans carne np the volley of hits that featared the 1ast l1aif of the game ~egan to rattle. Men~ick out, Teedy to I-Ioughton. Higbee's hit to center eluded Barclay's preltensile fiD;gers and went for a fhree-bagger. l'hat's twice in the same place. Culver laced the ball to right, whereupon Higbee bisected the pan. C1.1'l ver donated the record goose-egg to the scorebook when he was caught stealing second. Woodworth pallooned to T.eedy. Hou~hton inaugutated tb.e eighth with a single to left. Barclay ran. for him and pur- loined the midd.le sack. Oi<i vVillet William friday aviate<!~ to McManus; whereupon Barclay annexed third and dented the platter for Union's ·6rst run, wh.en Jake Beaver scratched a sin.g]e. The press considers Bar- clay's performance about first grade: he may move to the head of the class. Jake increased the perturbatiOta in loyal Union hearts when he obliged by })lundering s~cond. Rosecranz flied out to B~han. Daws()n sent Hummer ~p to bat for Jenkins, and while he was batting Jake was caught off second. Hummer went into the O()X with his arm as cold as Junior Week, which was rather ~nfortunate. Huyck promptly singled to right. The hit lqoked like a double but Old W. W. Friday made a clever stop. Hummer's frigid clavicle was genevous . enough to pass F. X. Conklin, which p:iaced Huyck on second. !'Sic-em\ Gallagher (the etnJy fault we can find with the R. B. I. tean i.s that there's no Finnegan playittg.-. Perhaps lle' s the manager,) ~'Sic-em\ sacrificed both n~n. Beha.n sacri- ficed to Jake Eeaver, wh() heaved the ball over his brother~s head, allow:ing both runners to score. Daniel McManus breezed. The ninth inning was the big one-like the fourth act of a melodrarna : Hero enters, villain foiled; the papers are lost; villain laughs ha-ha mockingly. Only there wasn't ~ny fifth act to send the audience away happy. Hummer watched fo1:1r wid~ q11es go by and tagged first base. Immediate! y the same gentleman stole second. Dave Beaver leaned on the ball for a single, Humtner taking third. Dav~ got the cue from Hummer and stole second. Teedy gave three good balls the once-over and sat down. Dutch Naumann scored Hummer on an opportune single. Dave took third on the hit and Dutch made second on the throw-in. This is the life- one do·wn, one run scored, two on base, and Barclay up. He laid down a sacrifice bun~ which brought Beaver home and sent Captain Naumann down to third. One more run to tie the score-so Houghton obliges with a single scoring Dutch. Teedy Woods ran for Erny, started to steal second, found a reception com- mittee of two-the second-baseman and the ball-waiting for him and succumbed standing up. The score,. gentlemen, is now tied. But the villain is not yet foiled. Splitting it fifty- fifty with W. Shakespeare, the sons of Stephen Van Rensselaer now remark : \There is a tide in the affairs of men.\ The scene is set for tradgedy. Heavy clouds obscure the astral·~rs~iori.'- Thunder may be heard in the wings. Greased lightning flashes from a hole in the back drop. Enter tHe villain-Sir Roger Vere de V ere l1errick of Dublin and parts north. Grasping his trusty willow rapier in his p~rfumed hand he waits, nonchalant, for the fatal ball. He bunts the fatal ball and Hummer heaves the fatal ball into right field, hereupon our talented villain goes to sec9nd. Just then thew. k. villain is overwhelmed in a mysterious manner; the manager appears before the curtain; and begs the audience to excuse Merrick, whose place will be taken by his understudy, Mr. Chauncey Olcott. In other words, Olcott runs for Merrick. Aloysius Higbee falls before the cunning of our Mr. Hummer. \They also serve who only stand and wait.\ Higbee waited till three strikes reposed in Dave's glove. Perci- val Culver sacr-ifices a11d complications ensue.

d e e e f I ' • \ ·-· THE CONCORDIEN,SlS I1 ' . Right here the plot is very tangled. When Percival sacrificed, Chauncey went to third, and started to go hom~. The prompter on the third base coaching lines made a dramatic appearance and clung passionate} y to ·Chaun- cey's rieck. Old Fox N autnatln called the game, put in a plea of habeas corpus, and the umpire almost sentenced Olcott out for being unduly coerced by the impetuous coach. This scene only delays the denouement, for Chauncey was finally allowed to stay on third. Woodworth, at bat, laced a grounder to Rose .. cranz who threw wild to first. Chauncey came home-The tragedy is over. Ring down the curtain, oh you curtain ringer-that's yo:ur job; but wait till J urte sixth ! The score: RENSSELAER a b. r. h. po. a. Buyck, lb ..... 0 ••••••••• 4 2 3 I4 0 Conklin, jb .....•....... 3· I 0 0 3 Gallagher, 2b ........... 3 0 I 3 2 Behan, lf . . . . . ;. . . ~ . . . . . 2 0 0 I 1 McManus, ss ........... 4 0 0 2 3 Merrick, P··-··h······· 3 I I I 5 Higbee, r£ ............. 4 I 2 2 0 Culver, c£ ............... 4 0 I I 0 Woodworth, C .....•.... 4 0 1 3 • 4 *·Olcott •... ~~~··•a.•\··· 0 0 0 0 0 __._ --- !otals .... II •••••••••• 3 I 5 9 27 18 UNION a b. h. '' r. po. a. b. Beaver, c.~ .. ~ ....... 4 I 0 8 1 Woods, 3b ... ~ ••. ~ .. · ... 4 0 1 3 ! Naumann, ss .... ~ .... · .• 4 1 2 2 I Barclay, cf ............. 4 0 0 3 0 Boughton, I b ........... 4 I 2 7 I Friday, rf. . . . . . • . . . . ~ .. . 3 0 0 I 0 J. Beaver, 1 f ............ 3 0 I 2 t Rosecranz, 2b .. i. ........... 3 0 0 0 2 Jenkins, p .............. 2 0 0 0 2 Hummer, p .. It •••••• t •• 0 I 0 0 2 -·· . . '• J.otals 6 §26 '· ··•••tt··'··t-; •. 3I 4 II *Ran for Merrick in ninth. §Two out when winning run scored Rensselaer .... , . . . . . o o o o o I I 2 I -5 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . o o o o o o o I 3-4 Errors- Rensselaer: McManus; Union: Hummer, Jenkins, J. Beaver, Barclay, D. Beaver. Two-base hits-· Gallagher, Naumann. Three-base hit-Higbee. Sacrifice hits-·Gal- lagher, Behan. Stole11 bases-Merrick, Huyck, Barclay, ;H:ummer, D. Beaver. Left on bases -Rensselaer, 5; Union, I. Struck out-By Merrick, 4; by J etikins, 5; by Hum.mer, 2. Bases on balls-·Off Merrick, r ; off Jenkins, I ; off Hlunmet, I. Hits-Off Jenkins, 7 in 7 irtnings; off Hummer, 2 in 2 innings. Time- 2 :oo. Umpires-McGrane and Hearne. LAWYERS WILL PROMENADE Ori ly.[ay 15 the Albany Yacht Club da~ce hall will present a lively scene, that being the date recently set for. the Albany Law School \Prom.'' An excellent program has been prepared, composed of twenty dance~ and a course luncheon at midnight. The , music will include many of the latest pieces; and it is understood that the newest and most graceful steps will be the order of the evening. The committee in charge of the affair consists of ·M. Katz, Schenectady, chair- man; John J. Delaney, Albany; Charles J. Renney, Troy; C. J. Lull, Albany; Carl E. Meal,ly, Valatie ; Roy R. Richards, Platts-- burgh ; R. J. Deane, Albany; John S. Mc- Grath, Watervliet, and Lawrence G. Mag ... ner, Schenectady. • Soph-What town in North America do~ ~tate Street remind you of on Saturday night? Frosh-Brilliance, Arizona. Soph-I should say Chicken, Alaska. Cornell is to have three s~parate fields for baseball, football and track at a cost of $2oo,ooci ..

18 THl! CON·C·.ORDIENSIS THE A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, 'IS, Psi Upsilon House 'LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, 16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlitt, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS ]. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 9.24 De lamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '1 5, Ass't. ~usiness Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHEN~CTADY AR'l' PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. TEMPUS FUGIT Some time ago it became generally known to everyone concerned that one of the events which has been planned for commencement to rest directly upon the students is a song con- test to be participated in by each class singing in a body. Everyone hailed it as an excellent plan and a few individuals have since done year and in years previous when no singing contest was looked forward to, the Seniors bad a class song ready for publication by this time. Where are the men among the other three classes who were going to contribute songs? Where are our strong-voiced leaders who were going to teach us the way to do the thing in regular glee club style? Where are the groups which were to meet on the campus at various times during the balmy months for the purpose of practicing college songs ? We certainly cannot expect to become perfect in a day or a week. In order to make this an interesting affair good hearty practice must begin at once and in earnest. Let us get together on this proposition. Let us gather with full numbers on each day of our class rehearsal. Let us forget, during that rehearsal, the Mexican war, the Colorado strike, our calculus, our philosophy, our Latin and bring with us only our voices, our good wills and our determinations. Do it now; time will fly. SUPPORT TRACK In this issue may be found a list of the men who will represent us in the dual meet with R. P. I., Saturday, along with a statement from Captain Baker to the effect that we n1ay expect good results from the meet. As we look over the entries we are most decidedly inclined to agree with him although quite a something toward the execution of the plan, number of new names appear in some of the but as for any action of a definite or far- ev€nts. reaching nature from the classes as such, Several weeks ago Captain Baker urged the nothing has reached us even though our ears students, through the columns of the Concor- have been straining themselves ~or the worthy diensis, to support this team which he expects sounds. to be a well balanced one. We wish now only The Senior class song has been written. to repeat this request for \Jimmy\ and to add rf\'hat however, is nothing surprising. Last a few ren1arks of our own. \ ·' ' • JUS wh rea rea the trac oth un:: • IS spo sho mu bas of· I of ind ma1 plac we to 1 tha: yea as 1 Col the1 and spr: Un: I the1 und fee] jok~ tha1 wa~

THE CONCORDIEN,SIS Why shouldn't we support the track team just the same as we shouLd support any team which is trying its l.t:tmost to do something real and earnest for Union? Thet.-e is no reason ; we should stlpport them and with all the spirit that is in ns. Some may say that track is not so intensely interesting as are the other branches of athletics and that it is unable to bring forfh the enthusiasm which is readily given to these more interesting sports. . This is a purely selfish excuse and should be eliminated. 'fhe track team is as much in need of support as is the football or baseball team and is as worthy of it as either of these can be. Last spring graduati()n stole from us many of our most skilful track men and we are indeed lucky to have. recruits from the fresh- man class whom we .may expect to fill these places creditably. There is no doubt that we now have sufficient material out for places to be able to build up a more balanced team than we have seen on the track in many a year and it is up to us to back this bunch just as they should be backed-just as any Union College team should be backed. We urge, then, that Baker's call for support be heeded and the three meets in which we engage this spring may be overflowing with the spirit of Union. WE STAND CORRECTED In last week's issue of the Cortcordiensis there appeared what w <tS meant for a joke under the title of \Varied Expression.\ We feel sure that the unknown contributor of the joke did not mean it in arty personal way and that any desire to hurt the feelings of anyone was farthest from his mind. However, \Jake\ Beaver, whom the joke concerned has since shown us his side o£ the question and in his behalf we wish to state that we did. not intend, by publishing this contribution, to offend him in any way or to lay discredit to his character or manners. The aim of the '' Concordy\ is to please everyone on the \hill\ who is worthy ol being pleased and certainly the man who has just captained our basketball team through a most successful season is not excluded from this realm. PHI BETA KAPPA Upper Hudson Association Plans Two More Meetings. A meeting of the Upper Hudson Associa- tion of Phi Beta Kappa, which was recently founded by the Alpha of New York of Union College, will be held on May 22 at the Sigma Phi House. Dr. Findley will be the main speaker. The topic on which Dr .. Findley will speak has not yet been an- nounced. The next meeting of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa will be held in the latter part of this month. At this meeting new tnembers will be elected. NOTES FROM THE FRATERNITIES Alpha Delta Phi held an informal dance at the chapter house on Saturday evening, May 2nd. The patronesses were Mrs. Han ... son, Mrs. Waldron, Mrs. Carey, Mrs. Yel-- verton, Mrs. Bennett and Mrs. Tapscott. On Friday evening Phi Gamma Delta will hold a formal dance in honor of visiting brothers from Cornell, Colgate and Syra- cuse. The patronesses will be Mrs. West- over, Mrs. Reist and Mrs. Hoffman. On Saturday evening the annual Norris Dinner will be held at the chapter house, at which the Albany Graduate Chapter will be pres- ent. Norrnan A. Davis, '13, and Don K. Hut- chins, '13, were recent vsitors around the campus.

' ' . . . THE CON·CORDlENSIS 20 SOMETHING ABOUT THAT HUGE COMENCEMENT The Graduate Council has worked hard to make this Comthencement season the most successfu~ in history. The Council has an- nounced several changes which will undo,ubt- edly add to the attractions of the annual celebration. Commencement week will open on Sunday, June ?th with the Vesper Services under the Nott Elm in Jackson's garden. The services will he held at five o'clock and will be led by a Union alumnus who has won distinction in the Christian ministry. In the evening President Richmond will preach the Bacca- laureate sermon and tnake the formal opening of Com·mencement. Monday morning will see the re11nion of the alumni at their different headquarters about the campus. The class day exercises of the Seniors will take place in the garden at 2 :30 p. m. and will be fol- lowed by teas in the fraternity houses. An informal \Everyman's Supper\ will be held at the Mohavvk Golf Club at 6:45. Meetings of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi will open Tuesday's events and will be followed by the Costume Parade which will pass in review before the Waldron Cup committee on the campus. Luncheon will be served the alumni in the gymnasium and several speeches will be made. In the afternoon, Alexander Field will be the scene of the Comencement Ball Game, ,played this year between Union and Colgate. Following the game, Dr. and Mrs. Richm()nd offer the . hospitality of their house and urge the reunion. classes to appear in costume. The d~y will close with Alumni Night, and general campus meeting on Alex- ander Field. The WaJdron Cup will be pre- sented ()ll this occasion Anrl will be followed bv the undergraduate classes singing for the Fitz Hugh Ludlo·w Cup. a new institution in the Com!mencement act1vit1es. An electric dis- play by the General Electric Company and numerous stunts by the classes will then en- tertain. At a quarter to ten all alumni are asked to come on the field and form a \U. in which position the \Ode to Old U rlioii~; will be sung. GLaduating exercises will be held at 10 o'clock W.ednesday morning wi,th Senator Elihu Root acting as Honorary ,Chancellor; This year, for the first time, the Commence- ment Ball will be managed by the Graduate Council. It will take place in the gymnasium and will be given in honor of the Senior Class. The committee in charge is planning to make the ball a fitting climax to Cornmencement week arid with the co-operation of the alumni and undergraduates will surely succeed. In a recent issue of the bulletin of the Efficiency Society is a report of the Depart- ment of Efficiency of the University of Den- ver. This report deals particularly with the results qf efficiency methods appiied to college study. The following are extracts: r. Study is best, quickest and most bene.., ficial in the early morning, but not before tak- ing some nourishment. 2. Three hours is the limit for study without rest or recreation. After th~t. efficiency drops markedly. 3· The preferred forms of recreation advocated by students are walking, gardening and tennis. 4· An average of seven to eight hours sleep is n~cessaty. Reasoning subjects are best studied in the morning, while memory studies are most easily retained it studied in the • eventng. . ~ JUNIORS~ NINE HORSE-POWER TEAM DOWNS SENIOR ELECTRICALS Interesting Ga~e Before a Number of . Spectators. . The big g-ame between the two electrical classes, which was postponed from last Thursday on account of wet grounds, was pulled off with considerable \pep\ last Mon.- day afternoon on the old diamond. ''Teedy\ ·vvoods pitched a good steady game for the juniors and lJ pson upheld his old reputa- tion with the 1914 men. f+eorg'e Waqs- worth was the \short'' in the tine of the f i l ! S€ ti . pl H fc a1 . 111 h: rt t\i 01 w tr g: p; c H V' ~ S· A N v :C H A G u Vi H M v E H 1~ 1~ C( u: \

THE GONCORDIENSIS seniors and showed reai class at this posi- tion. The style of ball which \Teedy\ pitched is commonly known as the satura- tion curve and the· seniors couldn't see it for dust. Consequently they failed to knock any voltage out of it. Mr. Upson was there in oldtin1e form, but the '15 boys seemed to have a short across his Hne. Hence they reversed the current in his horsehide for twelve healthy ones, w~ile \Teedy'' allowed only nine hits. Well, the insulation game will be played off in the near future, and then will the supremacy over at the lab. be given to those who win it by physical prowess. · The score. 1915 Electricals. AB. H. R. Cure, 3b. . ............. 5 ••••••• 4 1 1 Hoke r k, 1 b. . . . . . . . . ~ . . . . . . . . . . 4 1 1 Wood, c. . ..................... 4 2 1 Woods, p. . ....... ~ ............ 3 3 2 Stoetzel, lf. . ................... 4 1 1 Arthur, cf ..................... 4 1 1 Marvin, ss. . ................... 3 1 1 Vosburg, 2b. . ................. 3 1 1 Del champs, rf. . .......•....... 3 1 0 1914 Electricals. AB. H. R. Hager, c. . ............. ~ ....... 4 2 0 Anderson, 1 b. . ................ 4 0 0 Gidley, 3b ..... ~ ...... ~ ........ 4 1 0 Upson, p ...................... 3 0 0 '.¥ al worth } H bb d rf .................. 3 2 2 u. ar Morgan, If. . ................... 3 0 0 Wadsworth, ss. . ............... 4 1 1 Evans, 2b ...................... 3 2 1 Hall, cf. . ..................... 3 1 1 Totals: 1915 ................... 3 1 0 0 4 1 1914 .............. · ..... 0 1 0 0 2 2 \.SOPHS'·' WILL FIGHT There is a rumor that a feeling exists in college against the good old custom of an p.ndergradu~t~ fight 011- Moving-up Day. Who started the viJ:e slander on Union spiri~ we cannot say. Perhaps it was merely a wild, sweet fleeting day dream, such as emanates only from the ivory halls 'nea tb lids of verdant green. Perhaps some spind- ling infant o:f '17 (months), impressed by the mighty name of the great ancestor oi us aU, thought he'd better Nott. But let us be charitable and attribute all blame to- h . 1 \1'' 1 b. d'\ h. h b t e conventlona. : 1tt e ·tr ,: w 1c . ears all tales. 'Tis the last tail he should bear. Nay, not even one wee pin-feather shan adorn the anti-bellum cite of his caudal ap- pendage. We of 1916 cannot descr:ibe in this short sketch what we will do. Nor could we in a long one-because it will be indescribable. Like the equation of the arc-sinecurve of the hyperbolic epicycloidal cissoid, it transcends all pow~r to express. Come, all ye uppel' classmen, and observe how we defeat our own purpose by painting the idol red with freshman gore. Like the Carthaginians whom Homer described in the \Battle o::f Lake Romulus,\ our \fingers itch\ with a mighty tingling like unto the biting of \D Macts\ iodine on a spiked shin, to lay fas:t hold upon the bleating flocks 'round about whose verdant heads bob up and down (bu-t chiefly way up and then down) like a vast army of cockroaches with green goggles, and dash them amid the bones of their fel- lows until the last go1 darned one chirps his swan-song in two-four time to get through on schedule; even as rosy-fingered dawn twid1es her rosy fingers with her rosy thumb against her rosy nose at the red and silent remains of '17. \!Vill we fight? ! ! ! Come around and see, but don't get too close. '16. GOOD REPORTS FROM BUENO, '15: M t.tch interest has of late been shown in the welfare of Mr. Bueno, of the junior class, who has for the past four months been confined at the Ellis Hospital as the

22 ,result of a most serious illness. Mr. Bueno has suffered very much during the past month, being operaited upon several times. Last week the student body voted to send Mr. Bueno a ietter of sympathy, also a token in the form of a bouquet of flowers. For these he wishes to express his thanks to the student body. Though he is much used up by the hard seige, 1\!Ir. Bueno is very optimistic and when interviewed last Sunday was found well on the road to recovery. He hopes soon to again visit the campus. l'IEMBERS OF ENGLISH CLUB DIS- CUSS A MODERN DRAMA New Secretary Elected. At the meeting of the English Club, which took place on the e-vening of May 1, \Dam- aged Goods\ was the pia y under discussion. Mr. Julius Warren of the Schenectady High School read a very interesting paper on the subject and touched also on the life of the author of the play. During the business meeting, Culver was' elected to the office of acting secretary, and T. L. Ennis, who previously held this office, was given his \well done\ by the ,club. After the formal parts of the meeting a \feed\ concluded the activities of the very pleasant evening. Y. M. C. A. NOTES Vespers will be held this coming Sun- day evening in the college chapel at 7 :30 o'clock. ·Mr. J. A. Hague of the African Inland Mission will address the assembly. His address will dea:l with the work of the mission and will be illustrated by the use of 150 lantern slides_. Mr. Hague is highly recommended, and the Association hopes that the fellows will attend. All fellows who ar~e thinking of going to Northfield are requested to hand their names in to Secretary C. T. Male so that the number may be known. Male has some new pamphlets about Northfield, and all are welcome to them. UNDERCLASS CONTESTS MOVING- UP DAY The Freshmen's Vie·wpoint. Moving-Up Day, so !Hear at hand, brings back to life the underclass antagonism. While the seniors are preparing their various parts for that day, the Sophs and Frosh are plan- ning to make things hot for each other. With this comes the talk of abolishing the old idol scrap and of having a \more equal and fairer contest\ on the ground that in previous years the classes were not always fairly r-epresented. This was the case last year, when only a handful of the Class of I9I5 came to the idol so late that many of r9r6 left before there was any clash. Some think, therefore, that painting the idol is un- fair, but, as a matter of fact, if class spirit is of any account, the instance of last year shows how very fair it is. For, if a class has the proper spirit, it will show up well at the scrap. 1f it hasn't the true spirit, it deserves to lose. And so, it seems that the suggestion of having a. contest more on the style of the cane rush instead of the old one around the idol is quite needless and brought up only to provide for more amusement for those who would like to see the scrap but are not willing to stay up all night for it. My opinion is that if the customary fight is not a good one, it can be remedied_ by good class spirit and it need not be abolisl1ed in favor of some other form of scrap. HEADS UP FOR A LAUGH! Maybe you don't think the Dramatic Club is working its head off. We do! In fact, we know it, as we have been there and have seen. Their labors are bearing \some\ fruit, also. To see the boys going through would make you swell with pride. Funny, too! Best lines outside of George M. Cohan (and Annette Kellerman) you ever met. They all decided to get some expert advice as to the best general get-up, so they got Mr. Leak to tip them off here and there. Mr. l d 0 l 1 lJ y v s a c y r a c r t d ( . l ( a c s . 1 (! l r s ] t ( . 1 ( l . 1 1

' ,, THE CON·CORDIENSIS 23 Leak is the genial gent who helped us so well last year in the same capacity. [\.nother thing! They have decided the day and date, time and place, auspicious occasion and all that. It's to be held at the j\:Lajestic 'l'heatre on Albany Street. Pretty nice place at that. The only thing that may be a dra-vvback: is that it only holds 1,000, so you had Letter get your seats early, as it w·ould be a bad thing to look back in years to come and ren1en1.ber how you had to stand up in the back because you didn't apply early enough. It is going to be held on the last Friday in May, which comes this year on the twenty-ninth of the month. Co- Incidently, the next day is Decoration Day, and a holiday, so every one will have a chance to recover from the paroxysn1s of mirth the play will induce. Outside of the profession, the club has the best line of actors on the boards-come- dians, lovely ladies, funny soldiers and heavy deed men. The costumes are pretty slick, incidently ; all fancy. They are going to try to keep the mob out by charging one dollar to come inside and ·sit down. We fear the boys will be conscience-stricken at getting so much for so little. Here is another little straight tip. This is one chance in a million or two for making a four-base hit with a lady fair, so take heed, ye swains, and invite one or two right now. I '11 let you know a little more next week, so hold your breath. PROMINENT MEN WILL INSPECT COLLEGE Dr. Richmond will entertain a party of men from Amsterdam on Saturday, who come here at the request of the fac.ulty to inspect the college. The men are not Union· College graduates, but are men who would be influential in bringing others here, and it is for this purpose that their interest in us is being aroused through the efforts of our faculty. Those who will be here Sat- urday to dine with Rr. Richmond are: Hon. Sa,muel WaUin, William McCleary, Hon. J. K. Stewart, John Barns, John Blood, Theodore J. Yund, Charles C. Y und, Abra1n V. Morris, Judge C. S. Nisbet, Dr. Charles Stover, Superintendent of Schools Harrison T. Morrow, Principal of High School H. H. C. Bingham, Postmaster and Publisher of the \Morning Sentinel'' R. E. Lee Reynolds, Hon. Spencer K. Warnick and Rev. Dr. H. T. McEwen. It is the \intention to bring men here from other cities, such as from Glens Falls, Saratoga, Albany, Troy, Johns- town and Gloversville. ALUMNI TO MEET AND DINE On next Wednesday night there will be a d.inner at the Mohawk Golf Club at which there will be two representatives from each U lil ion class. The purpose of the dinner is to elect a grand marshal for the Com- me11cement Parade and an alumni orator for the Alumni Luncheon, which will take place on the Tuesday night of Commence- ment Week. The dinner will be at 6:30 P.M. \ WILL M1EET WITH PROF. TAYLOR The Cosmopolitan Club are invited by Prof. Taylor to meet at his house Monday evening. Two new members have been elected to the club, Roof, '17, and Streeter, '16. Mr. Bueno's cousin, Salvio de Moraes Bueno, who is now living in the city and will enter college next year, has been taken in a.s associate member. Scores of las:t Saturday's games' among colleges which Union meets this year are as foUows: I-Ia1nilton 8, University of Rochester 3; Columbia 4, Wesleyan r; Fordham s. Col- gate 2; Army 3, Georgetown 2; Swarthmore 4, Rutgers 3-

THE CON·CORDIE'NS,J'S \PREXY'S'' DATES ·On Sunday, May 10, he wiH deliver two sermons in the First Presbyterian Church of Albany. May 11 he will address a community meeting in Middlebury. This meeting will be held under the auspices of the Middle- bury High School. Dr. Richmond will preside at the Com- mencement exercises of the Albany Law School on May 21. Mr. William H. Taft will be the main speaker. On May 23 President Richmond will make a short address of welcome to the Eastern Section of the Modern Language Association of New York. The meeting will be held in Silliman Hall. May 26 is the date of the Albany Medical School's Commencement. Dr. Richmond will officiate at the exercises. On May 29 \Prexy\ will give an address of welcome to the Theroputic Society. On May 31 he will preach the Centennial Sermon at the Albany ,Girls' Academy. Several of the undergraduates at Rochester have signed a pledge to \talk Rochester'' to at least one putative student during vacation. TENNIS 'CHIEFS ·OF NOISE BUREAU CHOSE'N .. BY B·AND MEN The college band has elected the follow .. ing officers for the coming year : W. C . Gunning, '16, leader. C. H. Purdy, '15, assistant leader. H. Hunter, '15, president. H. B. Santee, '16, v:ice~president. Ainslee Orr, '16, treasurer. L. J. Walrath, '17, secretary. W. 0. Clough, '17, librarian. Carroll Gunning, the new leader, is well fitted for the posiHon. Under his direction the band should have a very good year. The band will play at all of the baseball games, and at Commencement time. The faculty of Colorado State College have voted unanimously to have the Fteshmen wear short trousers and indigo-red neckties. Some Sophomores of Leland Startford University were suspended a short ii1ne ago for ducking some of the Freshmert. The Massachusetts Institute of Technot ... ogy is the first instiution in the country to establish a course in the study of mechan- ics of air navigation. Apparatus has beert installed, and the work of instruction will begin at once. The primary purpose of the course is to fit men to design aeroplanesj and it is estimated that a year will be re- quired to turn out proficient designers. It is planned to make the course practical as well as theoretical, and tor this purpose special laboratories, air tunnels, etc., in which the students tnay test their own aero .. planes, will be constructed. The tennis team played with the Massa- chusetts Aggies today, but the results were, of course, unable to be published in this issue. In the morning of Moving-up Day the team will play with the University o! Vermont, and those who played at Rutgers will tnost likely be the men that will repre- sent Union against Vermont. These men are Manager Wadsworth, Hovvell, Soler and Girling. Ninety-five per cent of the Indiana Uni- versity students \vho votert in the recent liquor election in Bloomington. Inri1ana, voted \dry.'; The city went dry by rR3 votes : I6o studerits \'oted. SECOND TEAM MAKING SC.HEDULE The baseball second team is composed chiefly of freshmen. They have elected Floyd lVIiller as their rna nager. Challenges will soon be issued to the different class tean1s on the \hill and also Manager Mil..: ler is arran-g-ing- for several out-of-town gan1 es with other schoL.ls. Cc tal seJ hi~ w , , ( ( ,. ( J.

THE GONCORDIENSIS A hiking club has recently been formed at Colgate. Weekly cross country trips are taken by the members. The University of Oregon advertises by sending a man with motion pictures to aU the high schools of the state. ALMA MATER (1914 Class Song) Words and Music by Willia1n Alvin Mudge. lJ nion, Alma Mater, Thy dear name we praise, Throughout life's journey, Hearts to thee we'll raise. Hail, mother of true men! Now thy sons salute thee, And with voices loud and strong, Proclaim once more thy oft -told glory. CHORUS As a Mother loves her son, And the son her glad voice hears, Does our Alma Mater guide us With a hand unmoved by fears, Should success our efforts crown, As we journey down life's way, Never shall we cease to stand For Union, Right, and Liberty ! Sages of our nation, Professors, Union's sons, Thine be praise and honor For the work you've done. As you , in our lessons, Taught us right from wrong, We would pray you will teach others, Who will joirt us in our song. Comrades, true and noble, One grand little band, That 'round the grim Idol Joined each other's hand. . We'll love, reverence, cherish Our grand Alma Mater, Seat of stone, dear grey old walls, And praise thee :with a song of honor. Though worlds may grow silent, Tongues, speechless and still, Life lose all its pleasures, And our hands, their skilL Though fortune forsake us As we go our way. Memories, thoughts, wiU ever bring us Back to Union's College Days. Dedicated to my classmates, who so highly honored me with the privilege of composi tion.-W. A. Mudge. SAVING THE CARGO Two Scotchmen had been having a good time on the heather doons of a leetle island, and were rowing back home across the firth. Angus had clung to the boat, and Jock, who had clung to the bottle, was floundering brave- ly in the deep. Although a poor s\virnmer he struck out for the skiff, holding the bottle in one hand. After a few strokes he became exhausted. \Angus he cried, \I dinna thenk I can mak' it.'' \Well if ye canna mak' it, Jock, throw it,\ called back Angus. Fifty-three of the seniors at Williams de- clare their intentions of going into business after graduation, twenty-six have not yet decided upon the question, sixteen will study law, seven wiH take up medicine, four will enter journalism, four will follow chemistry, three farming, three engineering, two teaching and two the ministry, and one each art, archi- tecture, biology, forestry and geology. In a debate between the Columbia freshmen and Pennsylvania freshmen it was decided in favor of the former that \immigration into the United States should be further restricted by the Literacy Test.\ The Columbia men took the stand that all immigrants who can- not be easily assimilated should be excluded and. sinc-e the illiterate im1nigrant cannot be easily assimilated, he should be excluded.

26 The officials of the University of Michigan and the other coHeges of that State are agi- tating the establishment of \dry zones\ sur- rounding each coUege, no saloon being per- mitted nearer than five miles. \Scotty the Rope King\ is at Williams now, which leads .us to believe that he will be here shortly. At Williams he challenged any student to a boxing match. Get the gloves ready for '«Scotty,'' boys. ABOU BEN HARLEM Abou B·en Harlem (and a swell guy, too) Awoke one night (he'd hit 'em up a few) And saw beneath the gaslight in his room (He'd left it burning to keep out the gloom) An angel writing in a book with ink. The angel's nerve made A. B. Harlem blink. And to the Presence in the room he said: \What is the graft?\ The caller raised his head, , And with a look both haughty and serene: \I write the names of those who don't say, 'Whaddye mean?' \ \And is mine one?\ said Harlem. \Nay not so\ ' Replied the angel. But cheerily still ; hurry, Abou spoke more low, and said, \I pray thee \.V rite me as one who chops the 'I should · worry. ' ,, The angel wrote and vanished. The next night It came again and left a card of white, Giving an order for a crown of Fame And tickets to the best world's series game. The faculty a.t Wesleyan have recently issued an edict compelling all students to take part in athletics. Kansas recently voted against the adoption of the honor system, by a 95 per cent majority. What is claimed to he a world's record for strength test was made recently by Michael Dorzias, a Greek athlete, who is a student at the University of Pennsylvania. Dorzias registered a total of 1,890 kilograms on the standard. testing machine. This is equivalent to more than 4,000 pounds, or two tons. NO'TICE All unpaid subscriptions whether Student, Faculty, or Alumni are long past due. It you have not as yet paid for your sub- scription, your remittance of two dollar~ in check, money order, or cash will be appreciated. Please make checks payable to the \Concordiensis\ and mail to the manager or deposit in the Concordiensis mail box on the \hill.'' We urge again, your prompt ren\Jittance will be appreciated. Blushing, she :hid her face on her father's shoulder, says the Savannah Press. \He loves me,\ she breathed. \Wants to marry you, eh ?\ the old man grunted. \Yes papa.\ \What's his income?\ She started. \I don't know,\ she munnured, \but the coincidence is very strange.\ \What coincidence?'' asked her father. \Clarence she answered, uasked the very same question about your income.\ At Cornell University there are I ,069 students who are almost wholly self-support- ing and r24 students who earn from $roo to $200 more than their expenses.

THE CONCORDIENS,IS Schenectady's (j reotest Drug Store Telephone anything to Quinn's. 'Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store, for anything you want. Call 1285. Free delivery by messengers. Cor. STATE & CENTRE STS. Steefel Bros. ALBANY For Work, For Play, For Out Doors, For In Doors, For Day, for Night For every use there is a suit with the Steefel Clothes idea behind it. Don't forget. Snappy Hats, Gloves, Shoes and fur- nishings for the young man who wants to \get by.\ .PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTI:FUL\ Vaudeville--Photoplays Every afternoon & Evening 1 to S 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures 2to 5 Special Music 7 to 10:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies l@J Jay A. Rickard Co. 2 53 State St. ''Schenectady's Sporting Goods Store'' A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to $5. Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE. ·CON·CORDIEN.SIS BARNEY'S Wh-rt Bv~~hr)I/:J Shops .Students will find that they have every- thing at - .. BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sche,ectady 's (;~eatlll Stor• SHOE SALE Men's Crossett $6.()0 bench made waterproof Shoes-Sale price $4.95 Other makes at reduced prices. EMERY'S Correct Dancing Also the new dances Prof. Kilgallen' s Private Dancing Classes Further rnformation see Hand Book page 52 ; Yale's Boat House The largest and beat equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri· ate Pa·rties only, in connection with house - - - - - • 29 ·Front Street Both Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices J:OHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . Clothing - - - Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The_ new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. WJaelcl~ Maaaaer Arcade Hall, Near N~ Y. C. Depot 'Pboae 2121·1 SAY YOU SAW IT IN THJC ••coNCORDY•'

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS ''Balmacaans\ for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. J. HILLMAN 617 'State .Street The Gleason Book Co. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building ' ·On your way to the Post Office' ' SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street The Students' :Problem Solved You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn· ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this · problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady lluminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIEN.SIS SAUER BROTHERS Printing, Binding, Makers of H-igh Class Stationery,. Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books Made to Order. 316 State Street---Phone 2799.-W. --EUROPEAN-- HOTE·L AND RESTAURANT Special Rates to Students 422 STAT.E ST~EET LEN:S GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Teated and G ]asses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check · account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON'S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Developing, Printing and Enlarging LYON'S 3 DRUG STORES C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier amd Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Ce. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif· ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouaes right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing We CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L C.eenhouse 1408 State St. · Phone 1543.J llluinu N nthtunl i.nult · ~tlJtnttta~y, N. 1. Safe Deposit Bo:xes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\

THE CO NCOR·DIENSTS Engraving a·nd ·Embossing Lowest prices consistent with high class work, wiU be ·quoted to college students, from now until commencement. i i II: '' :· :, ,, i: Union B;ook Co., Inc. 257 STATE STREET I SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ! THE TEN EYC'K Leadin,g Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Alao THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita' s Orchestra FURNTURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College I 90 5 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, '10, '1 1, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World H.R.PHONEMain3483-W Off• d R 167 H .Jt St Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert lCe an · es., ami OD ., any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son 118 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office'' PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS : '' I! ,. i: i' .. :: 1: ,. :' ! !

·•. THE CON·CORDIEN:SIS The Kind of Men Who '' oil Their Ovvn '' They are the finest type of men in the world-resourceful, perse- vering, active in mind and body- always striving, always accomplish- ingin every line of human endeavor. The creative instinct is strong in these men. They like to make their own cigarettes, with their own hands, just the way they want them. They prefer the cigarettes they roll for them- selves from ripe, mellow \Bull\ Durham tobacco to any ready-made kind they can buy. GENUINE •• UL( DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO (Enor.rgh for forly hand-made cigarettes in each 5c sa~) Once a man learns the rich, fragrant freshness and delightful, mellow flavor of ''Bull\ Durham hand=made cigarettes he never smokes any other kind. Get \the fv!akin~s\ today -~'roll your own' $-and obtain thoroug:h, healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction. AskforFREE b l. . .£ .t:f .. oo,-c OJ papers with each 5 c sack F R E E An Illustrated Booklet, showm g how to \ Roll \\ .. our Own,\ and a Book of c1garettepape;rs~ , V¥ill both be mailed, free~ to any address ~ ( in U 9 S. on postal request. Address\ Bull', II Durham, Durham, N. C., Room 12i0o , \il llllllllllilltnmulu ': · i ,,,tl ~~llH,UW\~;\tlW~lli~HUWiiUiiUU~ll~,,~~~l·lill 1210

THE OON·CORDJENISIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. MO~E DEWILDEr Hatter and Fur11isher. Trunks and Leather Coods lns.a~ t4t ittrbtr 54 State St., Albany~ N.Y. William J. Reinhart McClure & Cowles .. Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos ,and Player Pianos . Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Pay~ents. 8 James Street, Albany, N.Y. 64 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albanr's Progressive Drug Store \R.oot for Jack\ Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S Z~·28 No. Pearl St. 2nd SHIRTS 50c Albany Agency f()r Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. \Ou Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 1-0 and 42 Maid en Lane Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRON1ZERS I i I I . I i ,,

'j'i' ' .: : '! .,::·. ll ' ' '; :lj' II· . 1, ,I , . !lj I ' 'I I ' ' , , I , : ,!i ' : '·' THE CONCORDIE'NS,IS PARSONS' ORCHESTRA Mu.sic F urnis,hed for all 'Occasions Telephone 2131-J ,· ,, The Manhattan Co .. 142 STATE STRE·ET. A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest caah prices Quick - Active - Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 31 () State Street. Sc·henectady Bellinger Paint Co. :PAl NTS, OiliLS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Poliahea 212 So. Centre ·st. A ..,SQUARE DEAL•·• for everybodJ is the \Spauldiag P.olicy. '' We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that sucb article will gtve satisfaction and a reasonable am()unt of service .. A G S . Jd' & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • pau · ·lng lOS. 52()::Sth A\fe. New Yori Send for Catalo~ue VanVoa·st & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Stre-et Corner Barrett St1 Schenectady, N. Y. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CARE'Y Prescriptions Accurately C()mpounded Toilet Articles The Schenectady Clothing Company Iii Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Qualitr Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters BAY YOU S.AW IT IN THJC \CONCOR.DY\ . ' ,, ,,

,, ,, W4t i;amptnu Alf~:auy THE LARGEST ·ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-C.otton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our ~oods are right-and our right method of doing business has broug~t us an ever increasing number of satisfied c:ustomers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, pl,ease consider this a personal invi· tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED i850 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. §nus JEWEL:ERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN ;CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL ST,REET ALBANY, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR P .A.PER'S P ATRONIZERII ,:

.. Good Clothes SAY MEN: \Y/ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M. Clothes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. lf you look us over a· littl~ we think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady -~ Art Ptess

UNION COlLEGE L-IBRARY. THE: PVBL ISHED·WEEK L Y BY· THE STVDENTS· OF·VNIO-M·COLLEG-E ··· · Vol. XXXVII What is Life? A bridge that ever Bears a throng across a • rtver; There the takery here the giver. -Dante Gabriel Rossetti. MAY 14, 1914 No.24

., ' . . ' I : I . ' . ,! ' ·;' 'i UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL .. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Courses leading to the degree o:f A. B. CLASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophmore year, elect to become candidates for the deg-ree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. z. CJourse leading to the degree of Ph. B. LAT'IN-ScrEN'I'n'Ic CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. S. Course leading to the de&\ree of B. S. SciEN'rTF'IC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. .a. ~ourae leadintr: to the degree of B. E. GENERAI:r ENGINEERING Cou:~s:e-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANI'l'A.RY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general enginee.ring studies. ELEC'I'RIUL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering educatiot1, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. <JotH'se• leading to a;radunte degree•. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c COURSE LEADING TO DEGReE OF M.S. E. E . ......:This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work COURSE LEADING To DEGREE O:F PH. D.-· This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent . For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full infonna- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. pARKER, J. NEWTON FIJtRO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW S<.;HOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: 1fatriculation fee, $xo .; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON# Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED E. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY'\

THE C·ONCORDIENSIS In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re ''cramming'' for an exam- When you're \boning\ for • a QUIZ- When your. making up that \condition\- Ot when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt\- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and cheering warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one .. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co.· Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical or Philosophical Problems But our store will help solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY -- ' Clothes Shop 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N.Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

' i '' - -· - .. -· ... -- .. . ~ .... .. - .,._ .. - ~ - . . . - - .. .. . .. . -- ·- ,.. ......... ... ................... - - - .......... - ----· ..... -- ...... ~\·\loo BABBITT'S .. ~ ~. . .. Big Purchase of -t • t. r . \\ ~ -; ;,. . ~ ''FR.· ANK·-E. L F ... IR. ·T:··~·EE.N·· ··S\' ·~ ·<. < : . \: • ,'~ ' ' ' ~ ' ' • ~. . ::' ' : ' ~ -~~ •• ' . .• . .· .; i .. <1. ~ :£._' ~- ~ ·. ~~;: ;.# -· i·· . < J.. ~~ . ~~ _f- ;.t! ~-'·.. . . ;_ . 7 • -.. .•. --5. ... - .......... - ~ ~;;.- -.. .... • .r-'<1~ •, Is-·bting'ing···great business. from all over r • . ..: . . . ~ : ~ ? •• f • ~ : • : ~ p '· r this Tri-City Territory because me.n appre- t ~ k • i ; . : i i : ! : ; ; • \ ·~ i ,, ~ 1 :.. ciate good val~es, such as we are now { • :: • : . :_ !f. : • •• :. ;..: • : (; :: .. i t~ '~ offering. t l ':..: : =: This big put;cpas~ inclu9~s ~ r . r- .. .z..-. :\~ l ~ t f' ;: ... # .. -~ tion of $20.'0() and $25.00 'lines large P.~r:: wh'ich we I :. : . : ' . . · .: i have put into our \frankel-Fifteen'' ~; • \.) & ~ 1-- ~ I ) } j ! ·: ~ i . :~ ~ i : : :. ~ ~ , .. ~ Line at $15.00 • • .it .... : ~ . - ... - ... -~ ........ - . -·~ ... ~~4-lbany~~ Greatest Clothiers'~ • ~! 4s1-453 :BR.dAnWAY, :: r. Ste~hen ~t., Al~any, N. Y. -. ; ! '~1 . ~ 4 . j SUITS - - ... ~ ... ·- .. ~. MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 ·. ···- --AT-- i -. 8. E. Miller! s 34 and ~() MAI~EN LANE A~BANY, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Bb.otO~ra PtiS--.:Art.isti c • 1\' II' •••• /·:.. • _- .. ~ ' .f ' 48 ~o. fearl Street ·· ' Both Telephones Albany, N. ¥. ~------------------------------------------------------------- ~:. -..:~-:..:...:::.:~.;...._, ·-·--~~····- ·-- .:. .. · i.AY YOU SA.W IT IN THBJ ••coNCORD!'•• ·- ·~ -- ·-- -- \-· ~.~~' { i\ :; • ; : ·=~ ·,: ,,:~· •,t: :

c '!.. f .. . . , ., .... . . ,·').,. .··• .. • ' 4<1\;'; :. ; . .f :::~_ .. _. ~-· .. ~ I I < . The FaVOrite Of ~. Your Favorite · TEN thance~s ~q,on~ 1 YQU~ fav6rite - ball-play~r ~makes Tu~edo .. We have scores of testinlonials from the crack men of the crack n£nes all ~ver tp,e (()Ulltry, say~:l}g that they en,j.oy Tuxedo and re¢orn·plen_di~g.it tq you~ Also--:-look around you the ne~t time you pick out that soft s.eat_ in the; bleac;:he~.s or: gran_dstap.d aqd se~ how tn.any of YOLf:f rleiglzbors are pack~ ing their pipe~ with, Tuxedo or rollia.g it into ·cigarettes. : . .. . . . \·- Siz~ up t.~e=n;Je.ri w~o are smoking and end~orsipg.T\.lx~do. They'~erea/ men~ :lull of life and the Joy ~f life~ : -. T_he P.erfe_.ct Toh~cco fo~ l?lpe a~d Ciga1~tte . . . ' 1. :· . : -:: - ~ ~· '! . ,. .. ! J , Tbxed.o.. is :in. a class by i~self. : :It ~a:s q1~ny imita:tors:-~~but in. t~e pipe it_has. rio:.equal.. lt.is.madte of th~ pest sele.~ted .. , Burley Toba·cco, the fin;es~ thab~entu~ky grows, ripened; cured and ageld un.til it has ·reacheq the tip~o.p;,o~ mildness; m~llowness· and sweetness.· Then it is treated by the origjnal -:' ''!uxedo :process'~ which takes out all the sting so it can'l!{).t possib!y bit_~. _ . YOU CAN BUY .TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient p ouch , s Famcus green tins, 1 o inner ·linei:l with c with.·gold ]etj:ering, c rnoi&tua\e-proof ·paper ' curvedtofit·ppcket ,. .. .,.. . In Glass Humitl&r•~ SOc and 90c ' ' F REE Send .us 2 cents ~n st3;m.ps for. post- - . age aad we will:mail'you a.souvenir tin of TUXEDO tobacco to any poin't in the United States. Address ·~-.~ . ... THE AMERICAN 'TOBACCO COMPANY RooDl 1~()9 111 Fiftb A. venue New York CHRISTY ~ATiii~WSON . 1 ~.'.Tuxedo gets• t<J· m.~ in a natural; ple~sant :VJaJI.:r, It'~ what · I call' gciod, -troirest, · companionable: to h<l{lcco- · the /eind ~to .stick :{<Ji ~,, , . -:; .... iJO}lN],J. K~~~l\W :~- , \Ta. fC. trzy pipe amokintf i a; k,een:i ew:~j~!Jtrent that I have .. experienc.ed with no other tobacc(,. --Svpreme in mildness ami fragrance . ,..,... d , ' z.s J vxe o. . /4~~~ \\'=- '- :A..~-, ,. .. ,. .. .........., ~!: '~!<· LARRY L.AJ()IE •' T uxeclo anll hGoe 6eera friend3;/or J1'ear.i,. .lilJntl ~the longer I useitthe.'b~tierllik,e it3 mild, soothing,efecls. ''. 4~ .. -~--------------------------------·------------~----~ i210

THE CONCORDIENSIS Home-made Candi:es and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Gold·en Robin TEA ROOM SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, 109 No. Pearl Street Clark & McDonald CLARK& SCHENECTADY N.Y. The 70 Year Old Jewelry and Optical House 233 State Street Schenectady 'F.. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard PROPRIETORS A. R. Mullin , ~nutt & <ttnmpnuy ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. Outdoor days are doubly pleasant when you KODAK Everybody can make good pictures the KODAK way. Kodaks $6 to $6 5 Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, • • · President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y.-Treas. Main office, 4 7 State St. T. I. Van ANTWERP, Vice-President ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, - General Coun1el Park Branch, 200 Washington SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CON CORDY \

THE ·CONCORDIENSIS Visit Our Victor Parlor We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our !Guarantee STEINWAY WEBER Cluett & Sons AND :PIANOLA PIANOS ONE :PRICE PIANO HOUSE SOS STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y Are You Progressing? · ulf U's Made of Rubber We Have It'' Are you in need of shoe repairing? If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the sam·e location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Ailing Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street F 0 d S · T 1 h 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores ree r er ervtce e ep one J H 0 L TZ M A N 's. LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES (II French, Shriner & Umer Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S UNDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WAU.. STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.ATRONIZERS

'THE ·CONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 ·Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle M otorcyc:les Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-:morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE AND ON TIME ~rf1rurrtany i\rt Jlrrss J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1 823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES, ORCHIDS AN'D VIOLETS 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate, -GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TER~ACE TELEPHONE 4258-W iA Y YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORD r ••

THE CONCO:RD1ENSIS N.M.READ PUBLIC STENiOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Build.ing. Special Rates to Students . Telephone 620· W Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. r======., Makers of Caps, Go-wns and Hoods Nrm ltrubnmr ifnttl 31. 31. Wf1.rarl.r DELICATESSE:N \J '' · t th d B k oe ·caters o , . e stu ent. . rea·· - fast between classes. A feed at night One minute from Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church To the American Colleges and Universities from 'P 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific .. Class contracts a specialty HONE • · 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. ( Higgins' il ~ ·I L Drawing Inks Eternal Writinll! Ink Engrossing Ink Taurine Mucilage Photo Mounter Paste Drawing Board P8ate Liquid Paste Office Paste Vegetable Glues, ete. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London The Big Hardware Store ·. 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. FELLOWS: We are going to show you the swellest . line of Straw and Panama Hats you have • ever seen. Panamas $5.00 up. Straws $1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00 & 4.00 See window display when weather is right. NICKLAS Phone 2322- W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Visthn~ Ca,..ds WeddtnQ Stataonery Bus1ne s Cards-Leher Heads C1ass Pins-Mono~rams Crests. Coats of Ar~s et~. DESIGNEf\8 EN6~VEf\S P\INTEf\5 ~MBOS.S~\8 PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE :: Boys, now's the time to ''Go Fishing,\ how about Tack,fe? Remember :. a Gnod Outfit insures you against the petty anoyances and means i· Goo.d Luck. We have a Splendid Litte to show you-Cal:l in Bristol Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods ;Fish Baskets Bait Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trout !Fiys and Bait Everything for the Fisherman ALBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 L[BERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The.Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~~RN!~ 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~~~ ~~g D. B. PAIGE, Sitma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 11990078 119911: Collea!e Representative ., 1 am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- f _lODS4 There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. · • 'Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State St. Gazette Building SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE 11 CONCORDY'• i: ,,

The Concordiensis ,...,______ VOL- 37 MAY 14~ 1914 NO. 24 UNION, 3; HAMILTON, 2 Buff and Blue Defeated in Clos,e Contest With Garnet Nine From the beginning of the game it was evident to all the spectators that the teams were excellently matched and that a close score was to be expected.. Until the fourth inning not a hit was tallied on either side a.nd team work was perfect. Royce pitched a fine game, but found the Union boys better versed in the art of hit- ting than were the Rochester men a week before, when he sent twenty-one to the bench on strikes. The Unionites succeeded in getting six hits and held Royce to seven strike-outs. He loosened up toward the end of the game after the rain had succeeded in mixi11g things up in general. H umtner was steady thtoughout the game, excepting possi~ly parts ot the fourth and fifth innings, when he allowed three hits out of the four charged against hirn. Hatnilton made the almost fatal two in the following manner. In the fourth inning, Higgins, the first t11an up for Hamilton, doubled to deep cen- ter. It was the first hit of the game. He scored a moment later on Griffith's single to right field. For a n1inute it looked like a batting feast, but ,Cow, the next man up. popped a foul to D. Beaver, and the other two men d1ed easy. Ogden, the first batter in the fifth, lifted a ;!ong fly ov€r the left fielder's head for a horne run, bu:t Hummer found himself and th.{~re was no tnor€ scoring on the Hamilton. ,~,: 1:1 £). ~ ... \~ '-'• 'The sixth and the first half of the sev- enth went off like a song. Then came the thnn.der storm~ ace om panie d by a rain, which drove players and spectators to t'he shelter of various buildings on the cam~ p·us. Ha1nilt()n stniled; Union frowned .. Har:niltort said. ''so1ne luck''; Union called. it ''hard luck.\ 'rhe show,er lasted only long enough :to refresh the ,Garnet players, llo wever, an~ not quite , long enough to hr1ng the Ham11ton aggregation entirely lPa<:k to life. The gracious sun shone out once 111ore to lend its gracious, a$sistance to the subordinate managers, who so diligent- ly svvept the water 01.1t oi the baselines. The idea of this ·vvas, of course, to increase tbe friction \h etween the base runner and tn~ ground. tbus pr~venting the ill-effect~ vvhich nearly, but not quite, followed \Jake\ Rea. ver's slide to third as he was stealing ~ a 1d hase in the ninth. Union ma<le the three nec:essary s~ore~ i11 this man:ner: A·fter Rosekrans struck . . . . . ~ ottt in the seventh, Friday single4, made second and third on a passed ball and cam~ hr'lne on a wild throw by the catcher. J. I\eaver then trip1ed to left field and score<t on 7itnmer's \Texas leaguer. Hummer pop- ped a short fly to Royc:e, and D. Beaver

I2 THE CON·C'ORDIENSIS hfted a foul to Miller. After Royce had struck out two men in the ninth, an ·extra inning gan1e seem:ed inevitable, but J. Beaver was hit by a pitched ball, stole second and third and can1e home with the winning run on a pas- sed ball as Royce struck out Zimmer. Among the features of the game Ogden's home-run, Griffith's catch o£ N a umattll\:s line drive and \Jake'' Beaver's ·clev~er ba.se- running in the ninth stand out prominently. ·The score: Union. AB R H PO A D. Beaver, c ............ 4 0 0 5 1 Woods, 3b. . ........... 4 0 0 0 1 Naumann, ss ........... 4 0 0 2 1 Houghton, 1 b. . ........ 4 0 1 8 0 Barclay, cf. . ........... 1 0 0 1 0 Rosekrans, cf. . ......... 3 0 0 0 0 Friday, rf. . ............ 4 1 2 2 0 J.Beaver,lf ............. 4 2 1 4 0 Zimmer, 2b. . .......... 4 0 2 2 3 Hummer, p ........ \ ... 3 0 0 0 3 Totals .............. 35 3 6 24 8 Hamilton. AB R H Gow, lf ................ 4 0 0 Royce, p. . .............. 4 0 0 Robb, ss. . ............. 4 0 1 Ogden, cf. . ............ 4 1 1 Miller, c. . ............. 4 0 0 Erhardt, 1 b. . .......... 4 0 0 McClouth, 3b. . ........ 4 0 0 Higgins, 2b ............ 4 1 2 Griffith, r£. . ........... 3 0 0 PO A 0 0 1 5 0 2 0 0 8 2 15 0 1 2 1 2 1 1 Totals ........ · ..... 35 2 4 27 13 Union ...... 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 1-3 Hamilton ... 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0-2 Errors-McCloth. Roth. Two-base hits- Higgins, Friday. Three-base hit-J. Beaver. Home run-Ogden. Hits-Off Hum·mer, 4-; off Royce, 6. Sacrifice hit-Royce. Stolen bases-. Griffith, D. Beaver, J. Beaver, 2. Bases on balls-Off Hummer, I. Struck out -· By <Royce, 7; by Humm,er, 2. Hit by pitched ball-J. Beaver. Passed balls-Mil- ler, 2. Time-2 :20. Umpire-Glenn. At- tendance-sao. The Harvard library has acquired in the last year 7,000 pamphlets on English his- tory between I6oo and I8oo, and the col- lection now rivals that of the British mu- seum, which is the best in the world. THE VISIONARY With dressing gown and slippered feet, The Senior, in his easy chair, Care thrown aside, while visions sweet Float through the smoke wreaths in the . a1r. Fixes his gaze, but not, I ween, Upon the book which open lies; Now on his lips a smile is seen, Anon 'tis chased away by sighs. Oh, Senior grave, will to me tell What fancies now thy mind enthrall? Dost hear thy tones like tocsin bell, Ringing clear through court or hall? Dost dream of times in the future bright When Fame shall own thee as a son? Leadest thou brave heroes to the fight, When battles fought are battles won. No? Not of these thou dream est? forsooth, I'll guess again: A maiden fair- A smile I see, I'm near the truth- With rosy cheek and waving hair, Beside a hearth-stone, all thine own; · While \Peace white winged,\ smilest down. This is thy fancy, this alone; Then may success thy fond hopes crown. Roy, '85. Andrew Carnegie has given $750,000 to Wellesley College toward the building of a new dormitory in phtC'e of the building re- cently destroyed by fire.

y e e t THE CONCORDIENSTS 13 JUNIOR ELECTRICS BEATEN BY CHEMISTS In the early hours of Thursday morning, like a thunderbolt from. the heavens, the or- ganic chemistry class loaded with ionization constants and deadly dope, defeated the electrical engineers. The score reads 9 to 2, but the great mass and multitude realize that the game was a keen contest from start to finish. For five innings the game was nick and tuck, and only slightly in favor of the pre- cipitators. Then the engineers' phenom, \Teedy\ Woods, retired in favor of \Hoke and the band played a funeral march. Dr. Ellery's odorizers started the ball a rolling in the first inning by putting one run across the pan. Voltage regulation was constant then until the alternator of the electricals sped up a notch and the IRs dropped two runs across the pan in the third inning. The next inning and so on for the rest of the game those H2S manu- facturers continued pouring oil on the com- mutator until the electrical machinery be- came one confused mass of short circuits and flashes. The stars of the game were the Hon. Dr. Salathe, Captain Vosburgh, (a plus j b) Stoetzel and HM ugs\ Morgan. The score in detail : Organic Chemistry AB R BH PO A E D. Beaver, 2b ...... 5 1 2 2 0 1 J. Beaver, p ........ 4 1 0 0 1 0 Houghton, c. . ..... 4 0 0 17 2 0 Byron, 3b. . ....... 5 2 0 0 0 1 Mudge, ss .......... 4 2 1 0 0 1 Salathe, If. . ........ 2 1 1 0 0 0 Hughes, lf ......... 0 1 0 0 0 0 Meneely, cf. . ...... 2 0 0 0 0 0 Vosburgh (cap.) lb .4 1 1 3 0 0 Faust, rf. . ........ 2 0 0 0 0 0 Keating, rf. . ...... 2 0 1 7 0 0 Totals .......... 34 9 6 24 3 3 AB R BH PO A E Morgan, lf. . ....... 3 1 0 0 0 1 Cure, 3b. . ......... 3 1 0 1 0 0 Hokerk, lb., p. . ... 3 0 1 7 1 0 Woods, p., ss ....... 4 0 0 1 5 1 $toetzel, ss., 2b .... 2 0 1 0 0 0 Wood, c. . ......... 3 0 0 12 0 1 Anderson; 2b., 1 b .. 2 0 1 1 0 0 Marvin, .cf. . ....... 3 0 0 1 0 1 Norton, rf. ........ 0 0 0 0 0 0 '' Arthur, rf. . ....... 3 0 0 1 0 0 - - T'otals ......... 26 2 3 24 6 4 Score by innings : 1 2 3 4 S 6 7 8 T. Organic Chemistry ... 1 0 0 1 1 2 0 4- 9 Junior Electricals .... 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0- ·2 Two-base hits-Hokerk. Passed balls- Wood (2). Base on balls-Off Beaver, 3 ; off Hokerk, 3. Hit by ball-By Beaver: Morgan, Anderson; by Woods: Meneely. Struck out-By Beaver, 16; by Woods, 8; by Hokerk, 2. Double play-Houghton to Vosburgh. Time-1 :25. Umpires-Dr. El- lery and Mr. Lee. co·Sl\ifOPOLITAN CLUB ENJOYS EVENING WITH MR. TAYLOR The Cosmopolitan Club met at Prof. Tay- lor's house Monday evening, May 4· Mr. Taylor gave a very interesting talk on the Champlain Canal and illustrated it by lantern slides. After this, the club enjoyed music and songs by Mrs. Richard Hutchins and Mr. Taylor. Refreshments followed, among which was a novel feature in the form of a. cake of which each n1ember received a piece sur- mounted by his native flag. Inasn1uch as Mr. Bueno was unable to be present, Mr. Taylor sent him a boquet of flowers, for which the Club desires to express its thanks. The Club is grateful to Mr. Taylor for a very enjoyable time, which was considered the best meeting of the year. Election of officers for next year will take place on May 18th.

14 Clat suggests that hereafter the baseball team be sprinkled before taking the field. It will save trouble during the seventh in- nlng. Young lady from boarding school visiting in the country, as the honey is passed to her: \Ah I see you keep a bee.'\ Base ball, track and tennis aU in one week I Pretty good, eh? Dear Clat-·Was Rome founded by F'rosh. Romeo? Dear Frosh-· No, it was found dead by Romeo. Juliet who was Clat. One consolation about war is that we are relieved for a titne of the rag songs, and the \Good-bye Dolly, I Must Leave You\ kind step in and fill the gap. DELIGHTFUL PLACES Hope, Alaska. Fairplay, California. Enterprise, Alabama. Deposit, New York. Safety, Alaska. Eden, New York. Liberty, Arizona. ; - t Freshmen. sophomores and juniors will all move up Saturday. What the seniors wi~l do depends on the seniors. Oh ! you cold, cold world. Dear Clat-You asked 1ast week it \Bence'' Page will lead tlle Prohibition Club next year. We haven't asked \Bence'' as yet, hut the other party concerned says; \H. e '\~·l··n't.\ I f t' . \' n onna 1on. Somers, '13; Hackney, ex-;15, and Helm, '08, were guests at the Delta Phi House last week. You,ve heard about golf on the campus. Well, the latest craze is aviation. \Art;; Hawley, '14, gave his first public perfor- mance of aeronautic tactics at Proctor's last Friday ,everting. It's rumored that there is a low rate for passengers ! Who said \pajama parade\? That's a good hunch! CONCORDIENSIS DOWNS GARNET ON DIAMOND Last Monday afternoon at four-thirty o'clock the Concordiensis nine lined up for hattie, their opponents being the men of the I9I5 Garnet board. The old athletic field was chosen as the battle ground and the captains agreed on a five-inning contest. The Garnet was outclassed in every feature ot the game except that of making errors at which they excelled. The aptitude of the Concordys along this line, however, entitles them to honorable mention as close secortds. The lirte up was as follows: Garnet : Keating, p; Bunter, c; Faust, Ib; Mandeville, zb; Brewster, 3b; Hawn, s.s; Hug-bes, r.i; Churchlil, c.f; Bain, l.f. Concordiensis: Agan, p; Finch, c; AtwDod, rb; P()rter, zb; Glenn, s.s; Schaffer, 3b; Delchamps, r.£; Knight. c.f; Taylor, l.i. Evans. of electrical f arne, umpired. The stars of the game were \Tillv\ I-Iughes for the Garnet and \Rotneo\ I(night for the Cort- cordiensis. The final score was 13 to 5 irt fayor of the \Concordy.\

THE CONCORDIEN SIS PRESS CLUB Moving-Up Day will be a big day for the Club. News will be sent to the papers of all towns which are represented in the meet, be- sides the others papers which the Club ordin- arily takes care of. Plans are already under discussion for next year. It is going to be the best year of the Club. Dr. Hill and the executive com1nittee are at work on a more efficient system, where some restrictions can be had in membership, with the idea to secure better results and at the same time to make membership worth while. GLEE CLUB ELECTS LEADER At a meeting of the Glee Club, on May sixth, Gerrit V. Wood, of the class of 1915, was elected leader for the coming year. Mr. Wood has a very pleasing bass voice and has had experience with the club in solo work. Under his leadership the club should enjoy a very prosperous year. ? • Now you're looking at this space Strictly speaking, in the face. W auld you really like to know That \PusHER's GusHER\ is a show? Holy Gee! My pencil slid! That's a fact I should have hid! Honest, I'm to scared to say Any more of it today. But what I have said's only half, \PusHER's GusHER\ means a laugh, Means a slogan, means a password Means a host of pleasant things; Means an evening's long-reme1nbered Entertainment fit for kings. Gee ! My pencil is unruly I must stop its footless race (That's a bum joke, we'll do better, Next week, if you'll watch this space.) HERE:':S FOR A REVERBERATING CHUC-KLE Did you hold that breath we advised last week? W eH you can let it out now in a long whistle of satisfaction. On .the level, that play is a four-time winner. When they start springing their brand-new gags everybody tumbles backward. Honest, if you have a weak heart I wouldn't risk it, but, at that, you can't have more than just so much pleasure in life anyway, so you might as well get it concentrated. If you are at aU interested in the Mexican embroglio, you will be so glad of an oppor- tunity to witness the high order of ·military tick-tacks displayed by the highly intelligent army in the piece. The said army would put the combined \Hurthers\ to flight with a loo or two. You are sure you have the date now? I don't suppose we need tell you that the date is May 29, at the Majestic. We fear that in your eagerness to fix the date you might have written a memorandum on your cuff and as the week passed consigned same to the laundry and obliteration. Stick around, we are going to let you a little further in next week . Dancing used to be called the \smile of the limbs,\ but recently it seems to have developed into a huge guffaw. FRESHMAN BASEBALL The freshman baseball nine is working out every day with the 'varsity. Most of the men have been with the 'varsity since the baseball season began, and have thus received the best kind of practice. There is no doubt but that the frosh will make a classy showing when the games Manager Miller is arranging are played. One of the best games will be with the strong Paw ling Academy team on Decoration Day. The freshmen have enough out for nearly two teams, and if they don't have a good season it won't be on account of lack of spirit. l

i . 16 THE CON:CO:RbiENSIS THE CONCORDIEN.SlS· A Literary and News Weekly Published hy THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postof:fice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ] . Delcham p s, 'I 5, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, 'IS, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, 'rs, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, 'IS, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, r6 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, 'r6 REPORTERS ]. C. Buc~anan, :r7 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, 17 H. R. Knight '17 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwo~d, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass',t. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: ScHEN~CTADY ART PRess 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. BE ON DECK Moving-up Day is a time when each and every man should be ready to lend a hand toward making all events which take place very successful, for t!nless we have an in- r t~r~stiqg Moving-up Day we cannot hope that it will have the desired effect as regards attracting to our college a number of the high school men who visit us on that day. It is necessary for each of us to show a live~y interest in all things at hand, not only ~eca~se ~y so doing we may help in making ~hose thi:ngs to which we lend our assistance more successful, but because unity and ·CO- operation shown by the student body are assets which will be even more effective in attracting new men than is the beautitu1 catnpus which we have. A man who is sufficiently far~sighted will, to a certain de- gree., look casually over the superficial side of a co1nmunity-· its buildings and its nat- ural surroundings-· but he will make a care- ful observation into those things 1which really make a comn1unity, and especially a college community, worth living in. He will say to himself, \Are these men hos ... pitable, are they interested in the welfare of the co1nmunity and of one another, are they generous, are they democratic, do they co- operate with one another in all things which tend toward the uphuilding of their col- lege?\ He will take observations through ... out the day artd will answer these questions for hitnself from the mental notes which he has taken fron1 seeing the students and the faculty working in conjunction on a holi- day which is a workday. If he is not shovvn the attention which a visitor should re- ceive ho\v can be pronounce us hospitable? If he does not see us all working together toward the success of our plans for the day, how can he decide that we are inter ... ested in the welfare of the community? If he does not notice that we work together harmoniously and without friction, how cart he believe that we are generous toward one another or that we have the welfare of Union at heart? We have here a small college, and one of the greatest advantages of such a college is that all of the students ate able to be- cotne personally acquainted with one an- other and with each member of the faculty. Let us show the sub-freshmen that we v..r ho have been here for one or more years have not failed .to gather fruit from

THE CONCORD1B:NS1S these intimate relations. Let us show them that we believe in every Union man; that we are interested in every Union man, and that we stand ready with our assistance, to be offered in case any project involving Union men as such should be put before us. Saturday is the great day. Let us see everyone on hand, let us see all who are on hand hustling; let us see all who are hust- ling accomplishing an end·. Let us \be there with a wallop\ throughout the day, and as far into the night as we deem neces- sary. THE DEBATING SEASON Outside of the intercollegiate contests, two p~plic debates pave been held this year. Everyone seemed satisfied with the result of t};le clash between the Philomathean and Adelphic s~cieties ; it was seen at the time I • that there was material in college for a dan- gerous 'varsity team. The results of the initia~ ~ophomo~e-freshman meeting were the same; we feel that it was a wise move to start under-classn1en in the game as early as possible, for it is evident that they must so?n assume tpe responsibility in the larger sphere {)f intercollegiate work. If it were always possible to secure judges as fair and unbiased as the men who served for the Allison-Foote debate, if it were always pos- sible to get men like Professors Bennett, March and Chase, who served on the under- class debate, this activity would be far more ~ . attractive than it is at present. .. .4 • The results of the intercollegiate season were one victory, one defeat, and a lost de- cision. The lt\delphic Society of Union de- feated the championship society of Colum- bia University, Cornell defeated Union, and New York University got the decision over Union. The first two debates were satis- factory to both sides, but the last was any- thing but satisfactory. A very fine .a.gree~ ment was drawn up between the two inc stitutions., but New York failed to ·<lo its part. Consequently the board of judge:s was not as representative as it might have been It was indeed fortunate that Professor Me~ Kean vvas in New York with the team, for he heard the debate and knows what hap- pened. The N. Y. U. coach also heard it, and considered Union the victor. As in the two former debates, the captain of the Union ' team was pronounced the individual star of the contest. It was natural that the result Otf this last debate of the year should be dis~()urag­ ing to the team; but, to tell the truth, that was not the only discouraging feature of the season. In the first place, there was not enough cornpetltl.on for positions. Jn th~ second place, that quarter tax did not com~ in fast enough. From fifteen to twenty-fivt dollars a year for athletics, given cheerfully\ Hearts broken at the thought of twenty- five cents for debating! The team wishes to thank the sopho1nore treasurer for his pro1npt remittance. Sincere thanks is also due to Pro:fessor McKean for his unselfish . ' . interest in the team. It could not gei a~ong 1 . • ~ without him. A YARN It was atter lunch at the fraternity house and, as was the custom, the boys. were all gathered together on the lawn dis cussing the ladies and spinning yarns, when Car~ - '· who had been quiet for quite some time broke into the conversation by sayhlg: 1 \Y ou~re speaking of the water in the tank

18 THE CQN,CORDIENSIS being cold reminds me of an event that has a distinct mark on my life.'J And with cries of ,\WeB let's have it?\ ''vVhat is it?\ etc., he spun. this yarn : \Well you see, it hap.pened this way. You fellows all remetnher I stayed out of college last year and worked in a lumber camp down in the Maine woods. \Now as you ali know, t:he winters there are severe and the thermometer sometimes drops to 30 or 40 degrees be[: ow zero. Well, iteveral of us fellows had a notion of taking a dip in the river each morning even though it was cold. On the morning in particular of which I speak about, the weather was so cold that we could scarcely cut a hole big enough to get down in before it would be all frozen over solid again. So we decided to swim under the ice and not be cheated out of our bath. t'Accordingly, when one ~f us would duck under and swim beneath the ice the other would run along on top and chop a hole for the fellow in the water t,o cotne up through when he signified that he wanted to come up. ~tWhen it came my turn to duck under I swam so far and so deep that the fellows lost track of me, and when I came up my h.ead hit something hard. Right away I figured my days were numbered. , ''Upon investigation I found that I had swam under a raft of logs floating down the river to the mill. So I pulled up close to them and, seeing a knot-hole, pulled a soda-water straw from my pocket and, run- ning it up through, breathed through it, waiting patiently for the raft of logs to float by. \I knew that this someiiimes took two or three days, but this didn't bother me at all, as I had taken the precaution to slip ~ fishline in my pocket and I amused my- self, and incidently kept myself in food, by catching and roasting the fish in a hollow of the log. \For three days and three nights I stayed there, and then the last of the raft passed over my head and I bobbed up into the morning air at precisely 8:31 A. M. Why I know the time so accurately is because I kept my watch wound up and-·\ But here he was interrupted and his pen- alty is best understood by the words of the prophet on his way to afternoon \lab'~ when he said: \Carl is the sweetest little liar on the map and we must cool his ardor witlil a pail of water at 2 A. M. tomorrow morning.\ Yes? MOVING DAY 9 j 9 2 9 2

TilE: C·ONCORlJIEN.SlS SP~ING TERM EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Monday, June 1 9 A. M,-Economics. Junior Greek B. Sophomore History Freshman Academic Intermediate French. Freshman Academic Intermediate German. Sanitary Biology. Sophomore B. E. Physics. Freshman B. E. English. 2 P.M.-Laboratory Physics. Qualitative Analysis. Tuesday, June 2 9 A. M.-English 6. Sophomore Academic Physics. Freshman B. S. Mathematics. Freshman Latin. Stresses. Sophomore B. E. Mechanics. Freshman B. E. Analytics. E. E. 3. 2 P. M.-· Quantitative Analysis. Sophomore Intermediate German. Biology (Medic.) E. E. 23. Wednesday, June 3. 9 A. M.-English 5. Ethics. Sophomore A. B.; Ph. B.; Mathe- • tnatlcs. !freshman Academic English. Motors. Sophomore B. E. Chemistry. Freshman B. E. Intermediate French. Freshman B. E. Intermediate German. 2 P. 11.-Junior A. B.; Ph. B.; Mathematics. English 4. Sophomore B. S. 1\!Iathematics. Sophotnore Latin. Freshman B. E. Physiology. l-Ieat Engines. Thursday, June 4., 9 A. M.-General Chetnistry. Argumentation. Biology. Sophomore Greek (A and B)~ Astronomy. Sophomore B. E. English. Freshman B. E. Calculus. Elements of C. E. 2 P. M.-American History. Junior French. Fresh1nan Greek. Friday, June 5. 9 A. M._._ Junior Latin. Junior B. S. Mathematics. Mineralogy. Sophomore Intremediate French .. Hygiene. Route Surveying. Sophomore B. E. Calculus. Freshman Surveying. 2 P.M.-Sophomore Academic English. Freshman B. E, Intermediate German. Saturday, June 6. 9 A.M.-Junior German. Junior Greek (A). Elementary German. Freshman A. B. ; Ph. B. ; Mathe~ ma.tics. Law. Des. Geometry. PREP-SCHOOL TRACK TEAMS MEET HERE SATURDAY Ort Saturday; which is Moving-Up Day and also Sub-Freshman Day for old Union, there will be the usual intr-scholastic track meets representing nine different schools from cities in the near vicinity of Schenec- tady. Although only three of the schools who participated last year have entered again this year there are six others who have entered men for several events and the meet promises to be one of interest. The try-outs will start at eleven o'clock Saturday morning and the finals will be run off at two o'clock in the afternoon. The officials tor the day will all

20 THE CONCORDIEN'SIS be track men from· Union's squad and DL McComber and lVlanafer Case will also act as officials. Manager :Case has rec~ived applications from the following high schools and acad- ,emies: Schenectady Hig:h School, Ogdens- burg Free Academy, Greenwich High School, I-Iudson High. Schoo1, Sba:ron Springs High School, Port Henry High Scbool, Hoosic Falls :High School, Kingston Acad.erny and Glens Falls High School. The number of entrees from each school for the events are as follows: roo-yd. dash-Ogdensburg, 5; Port Henry, 4; Hoosic Falls, I ; Glens Falls, r ; Sharon Springs, I; Hudson Falls~ r; Schenectady J!igh, 5· Twelve-pound hamn1er-Ogdens- _, ,, burg, 3; Port Henry, r; Glens Falls, I ; Schenectady High, 2. r2o-yd. low hurdles- Ogdensqurg, 2; Schenectady High, 4· 220-yd. dash-Ogdensburg, 4; Port Henry, 4; Hoosic Falls, 2; Glens Falls, 2; Sharon Springs, I ; Schenectady High, 3· One-half mile run- Ogdensburg, 4; Sharon Springs, I ; Port Henry 12; Glens Falls, 1 ; Hudson Falls, I ; Greenwich, I ; Scbenectady High, 3· Run- ning High Jump-Ogdensburg, 2; Greenwich, 2; Glens Falls, 2; Hudson Falls, r ; Hoosic Falls; 1 ; Schenectady High, 2. 440-yd. dash -Ogdensburg, 3; Greenvvich, 2; Sharon Springs, 2; Port Henry, 2; Hoosic Falls, 2; ':Kingston, 2; Glens Falls, 2 ; Schenectady High, 4· One mile run-Ogdensburg, 3; ·~haron Springs, 3; Hudson Falls, I; King- ston, I; Schenectady Hig-h, 4· Running broad jump-Ogdensburg~ r; Kingston, 2; '· fJlens Falls, 2; Greenwich, r ; Schenectady fiigh, 3· One-ha:I· f mile relay-Schenectady High,. Port Henry, Ogdensburg, Kingston and Glens Falls. Unlike previous years, Union has the best Q f accommodatiotLs to offer her visitors. There. is a new cinder track which is of great advantage over f<>rmer years, and the new fi)'mnasium with its locker :rooms, pool and ~hower baths is ~ertainly a great improve- ment. FUNNY THINGS As They Occurred to the Concordiensis a Number of Years Ago. Sophomore( putting up freshman)- \ Give three cheers for '87.\ Frosh-\Three cheers for '87. Rah l Rah! Rah !'' Soph-\Say '88 is no good.'\ Frosh-'\88 is no good, but Lord help '89.'' .. Kiss the gir Is when the light is low, Stack the cards so your hand you'll know, Make the Frosh on the I dol go,. But don't get caught. Oh r Leo ! Leo ! Leo ! Leo ! The sweetest ever seen! \T were butter we had never m-et, Oh! Leo Margerine! \The new elevator r.cently put in at Vas- sar College is not much used, as the girls prefer to slide down the banisters.\ \South College has a new pump. What's the matter of North College having one, too?\ \I guess you don't know anything about that mystery connected with the Lab; do you?\ said Spriggins to his chum. \No I don't,\ said his chum, who had flunked. that morning because he didn't knovv the difference between sodium chlo- ride and salt. \vVhat is the mystery?\ \Chem-mystery said Spriggins, as he crawled under the bed to escape getting hit. THE WAY 1T IS DONE \Ed you play on second. Ever play ball before? No? All right, you'll do.\ In this and similar ways are all those stars picked out for the fraternity and some of the class baseball games on the \hi:ll.\ Christy Matthewsons and Ty Cobbs couldn't enter- tain us half as much as these, and that's wh1 ol theE junj .o'c1 ear. the sen be edi day De to 1 thi stu roc Si~ on fit Wt He: ba M M 'lL s. la: St . tn D Ot M lo tt fr T t( A h V\

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 why you always see such a crowd watching these ball (?) games. Even when the junior engineers played the chemists at six .o'clock Monday morning there were a few early birds on the bleachers. The game that the junior engineers took away from the senior engineers Monday, the fourth, cannot be described, owing to the presence of the editor-in-chief on one of the teams. 'Thurs- day was a good day for baseball, so the Delta Phis beat the Sign1a Phis about nine to one. This baseball enthusiasm is a good thing, nevertheless, because it keeps the studentsr minds off the evil labs and class- rooms. SIGMA XI ELECTIONS At the meeting of the Theta Chapter of Sigma Xi, held in the electrical laboratory on the evening of May 5, the election of members occurred. The following men were elected to membership: Luther A. Hagar, \14; John A. Hall, '14; Bert M. Hub- bard, '14; George W. Lutz, '14; William A. Mudge, '14; Warren C. Vosburgh, '14; Morgan L. Williams, '14; Walter C. Smith, '14; Walter D. Tiedeman, '13, and Nicholas S. Diamant. Y. M. C. A. NOTES Rev. L. H. Downing of the African In- land Miss ion addressed the Vespers last Sunday evening. ·The meeting was held in the chapel, and lantern slides were used. Different phases of the work were brought out, as well as the great accomplishments. Mr. D()wning is in this country on a fur- lough, and the association was very for- tunate in obtaining such a speaker, direct from the field. TENNIS TEAM WINS FROM AGGIES The tennis team added another victory to their record by defeating Massachusetts Agriculture College last Thursday 6-0. The team showed excellent form and over- whelmingly defeated M. A. C. in both the singles and doubles. The scores of the matches are as follows : Singles Union M. A. C. Score Wads worth ... Archibald ...... 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 Howell ....... Draper . . . . . . . . . 6-2, 8,..6 Girling ....... Hall . . . . . . . . . . . 6-1, 6-1 Soler ......... Whitney . .. . . . . 7-S, 6-2 Doubles Union-Wadsworth-Howell M. A.C.-Archibal'd-Draper ........ 6-3, 6-4 U nion-Soler-Gir ling M. A. C.-Hall- Whitney ........... 8-6, 6-2 The team has procured Mr. Robert James of Saratoga as coach, under whose direction they will train for the four re- maining matches of the season. Matches have been arranged to be played on the cam- pus as follows: Vermont, May 16th, Inter- scholastic Day; Williams, May 23rd; Rut- gers, May 30th; R. P. I., June 6th (pend- ing). TRACK TEAM HANDS OUT DEFEAT TO R. P. I. Union's track team beat up Rensselaer pretty conclusively over in Troy Saturday, and thereby smoothed over accounts with the polytechs for the time being at least. Final reckoning placed us in front by 6S0points to 5 I )0, 14~ of which, let it be noted, were carried off by Jimmy himself, making him high-score man of the meet. The meet was a sort of see-saw affair, R. P. I. running all around us in a good share of the track numbers while we were cleaning up everything in the field events. \Phil\ Mal- len's first in the 120 high hurdles, Captain Baker's win in the 220 lows and \Tommy\ Dent's speedy victory in the 440 were the tneans of finally swinging the teeter down on our side. We can excuse our poor showing on the track with the lack of a good place to work out on. The new track on Alexander field is coming around fast now and, accord- ing to Jimmy, we will be. well built up on the runs before the next meet.

THE CONCORDIENSIS The times and distances throughout the meet were unusually good. \'Tommy\ Dent probably hung up the ])est one when he broke the string in the 440 at 54 and made the engineers trail as well behind in at least one of the races. \Tommy\ will bolster us up a lot this season. Morrison, 'r7, in spite .of a recent illness, looked mighty good in the Ioo--yd. It was very encouraging to see the general work of our freshn1en in the meet, twelve out of the squacl of twenty-three being 'I 7 men. \Doc\ Mac tells us they are all cotning strong and will be a big help next year in the absence of our present senior material. Score-Union, 650; R. P. I., 510. Ioo-yd. dash-· Trow, R.; May, R.; Morri- son, U. Thne, 10 seconds. Mile run - Parsons, R.; Sibley, R.; Stephens, U. Time 4:53 ?r-s. U. '\fitne 4:53 1-5. 120-yd. high hurd1es-MaUen, U.; ~l.tac­ N orton, R.; Butler, U .. Time, 16 4- 5· 440-yd.-· Dent, U; Reeves, R.; Mudge,· U. Time, 54· Two mile run-Sit. ley, R. ; Reeves, R. ; Hoffn1an, U .. Time, ro:62-5. 220 low hurdles-Baker, U.; May, R.; Coover, U. Time, 27 4-5. Half mile-Parsons, R. ; Vosburgh, R. ; Sibley, R. Time, 2 :8 2-5. 220-yd. dash-Trow. R.; Morrison. U.; Bardwell, R. Titne, 23 seconds. 16-pound shot-Hagar, U.; Stoller, U.: Fletcher. U. Distance,. 35 ft. 8 irt. Pole vault-Butler and Jamieson, U .. tied for first: Baker, U. a.rtd Kiergsley, R., tied for third. Height. 10 ft. 3 in. High jump-Baker. U. and Petersort, U .. tied for first; Maslen, R. Height, 5 ft. 5 in. r 6-pottnd hammer-S toller, U. ; J amiesort, U.; Fiagar. U. Distance, 109 ft. 9 in. Broad jump--Baker,, U.; Mallen, U.; May, R. Distance. 20 ft. 10 in. 1Jn1on's next meet will be with Hamilton here May 23. Before tbat time Captain Baker will put his team through son1e stre11uous out- of-door work on the new athletic field. He now has a good line on the ability of each individual man and can go on strengthening the glowing weaknesses of the squad. Knight, 'I 7. CLASSICAL CLUB ENJOYS EVENING WITH HIGH SCHOOL SOCIETIES Before the joint meeting of the Classical Club and the Agora and Aencidal societies o£ the Schenectady High School, held in the High School building the evening of May 5, a paper on \Socrates'' was read by Doctor John I. Bennett. After the meeting refresh· ments were served by the Classical Club in the luncheon room of the building. THE 1915 GARNET The class of 1915 always tries to do things better than previous classes. Last Monday you saw how progressive the Garnet board was when it lined up against the Concord- iensis.. But wait 'till you see the Garnet itself; it is undoubtedly the best published for years. Of course, you wiH want a copy. It has already been announced in this paper that the book will appear on the first of June. If you wish to be sure of getting your book, it would be advisable to put in your order now, for, as in previous years 1 the supply is not unlimited. Some of last week's scores are: N. Y. National substitutes, 2; Army, 7· R. P. I., 6; Stevens, o. Dartmouth. 5 ; \J\T esleyan, 4. Rutgers. 4; N.Y. U., o. Williatns is considering the adoption 1 ot a student council system of undergraduate government. The proposed plan is to have the council consist of tw·elve men-six seniors, three .iuniors. two sophomores, and one freshman. The :freshman shall not be al-- lov.reo to vote. ( - -

THE CON'CORDIENiSI5 Q .. ' · utnn· s Schenectady's • p: R: .· QCT. QRI's· Greatest .Dr-ug Store ! . i. : . .· . . i ===:;:=:========· I ''THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ What kind of Can'tly do you like? Most of you will answer chocolates. It matters not just what special :flavor has your preference-they are ALL here. Page & Shaw's Chocolates $1.00 a pound-- the Elite Candy. Liggett's Chocolates SOc a pound- Liggett's perfect asbortment, each piece different-no two alike. Exclusively at Quinn's. Fenway Chocolates 60c a pound. Huyler's Chocolates-new pack- age $1.00. Each and every the best in its res- pective line. QUINN'S-the place /or Fine Chocolates Telephone Q • ' anything to · UlfiO S Call128S Steefel Bros. ALBANY Slim Trim and Timely Spring Suits Designing a Steefel Model isn't as sim- ple as turning over your hand or snapping your finger. Styles aren't tossed off like tin cans are cut out. It takes rare skill to style a coat-particularly if it is to fit a lithe young figure-think it over, then corne in. The sort of hats, shoes and furnish· ings that young met~ like and wear. VAIUDEVILLE KI:NEMACOLOR PHOTOPLAYS :Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to ll SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures Special Music 2 to 5 7 to 10:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies I@J Jay A. Rickard Co. 253 State St. \Schenectady Sporting Goods Store\ A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Doug-las $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to ts. Surefits 14 to $6. Stetsons 16 to 17. H anans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL z4) STATE ST., SCHENECTADY P.A.rr:RQNIZE YOUB PAPEB'S PATRONIZERS

.II l' l . I i! !I . .. , THf: CONCORD1ENS:1S BARNEY'S Whn·e Rverybod:J SnopJ Students find that will they have every- thing at .... BARNE,Y'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Sche11eetody 's Greatest Stor• Shoes and Oxfords That Satisfy Corre~ct Dancing Also the new dances . :Prof. Kilgalilen's Private Dancing Classes Further ~information see Hand Book page 52 ·: Y,ate's Boat House The largest and best equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which caa be rented for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection with house - - · - - · · 29 Fr~ont Str·eet Bot·h Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Prices JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu- lar man ........ . . :Clothing - - - Furnishings · - .. Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Mi@i • Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing Crossett Bench Made Ralston Health $5.00 The new Parisian TangoJ Spanish Dip, Ajax $4.00 & $4.50 Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught $3.00 & $3.50 in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. EMERY'S Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. Wheld.a, Manaaer Arcade Hall, Near N.Y. C. Depot 'Phone 2123-J S.A Y YOU SAW IT IN T•HE \ CONCORDY \ I \ l I I I l ' • '

THE CONCORDIENSIS \Baimacaans for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics: ready for your inspection J. J:. HILLMAN 617 State Street Th ; ·GI· . . 8 . . k c ·. The Students' Problem Solved .e eason .· oo o. 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building '•On your way to the Post Office\ PICTURE FRAMING & ENGRAVING • SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 17() '·Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can get the extra half hour sleep every morn· ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed: Schenectady nominating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop.' ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady 8 OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE I ' ' 1 I

!' l' I' 'I l 'l: ! j i;: ,i l;' l'. I'' I THE CON·CORD'IENS[S SAUER BROTHERS Printing, Binding, Makers of Hjgh Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled Blank Books M1ad.e to ·Order. 316 State Street-Phone 2799-W. HOTEL AN'D RESTAURANT Special Rates to Students LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D·. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST - Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 :state S-treet Eyes Tested and GJasses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Bill~ard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms) Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. ~ .. The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON'S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Developing. Printing and Enlarging LYON'S 3 DRUG STORES C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 50! State 'St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2100-W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif· ference be1ween common flowers and the flowers we grow at o11.r own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Allla.ny Street Phoma S628-L Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J 1Iutnu N atinuul iJuuk &.tlytmttuby. N. 1. S:afe Deposit Boxes for Rent liA.Y YOU SAW IT ~N 'lEE 11 CONCORD r •• .- 25

THE CON·CORDIENSIS Engraving and Embossing Lowest prices consistent with high class work, will be quoted to college students, from now until commencement. Union Book Co., Inc. 257 STATE STREET THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Also THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N.Y. FIREROOF Both hotels conducted on European Plan Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita' s Orchestra SCHENECTADY, N.Y. FURNTURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'ro, ·11, '12 and 1913 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Off• d R 167 H ·11 St Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert . ICe an es., · ami OD •t any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. · Touring Cars for parties and .out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son 118 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office•• PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

.. , . ; . . ! .- \! THE CONCORDIEN.SIS . •. UH llU llllliUJllliUUIIU UIJ!tl m IHHI ... ~. ..r..• ...... • ' • The La~gu~ge of ''The .,aaki.1g~J'' . : is J~ri.ow~ all ov~~ th~ world. Y ~~ ~a~ go to any to- bace~ :sts>re~ booth. ,or bazaar:~, frotn;_Calcutta to Sto<?k- holm, from Yokohama to Buep.os Au:~s-make the stgn of rolling a cigarette- and the nat~ve de.~~er. will hand you a sack of \Bull\ Durham _toba~co.'·· He find~rsta~ds what you want, because \B11n·· -Purham is identified with hand-made cigarettes the world oyer. , . ~ , . \ ~ (' l . ,. . . . . .• . . ,!' MilliQnS' of.;in~il.of ~att nations and all classes ;oll their own cigarettes from \Bull\ Durham. This ripe, mellow tobacco makes fresh, fragrant cigarettes that they jJre/er to any kind they can buy ready-~ade. GE.NUINC \BuLL\DHRHAM . ! .. - .SMOKING TO~ACC_O ;.· .. ·.\ (Enough for forty hand-made cigarettes in each 5-cent sack) ~ .. . . . ~ .. You can tell \Bull Durham as fa~ as you can smell it. It has a unique, peculiarly delightful aroma, possessed by no other to .. Ask for FREE I_ k . .J:U u voo OJ papers with each Sc sack ~~~- bacco. An exclusive process known only to the makers of \ Buit\ Durham gives this added delight. ' ~ /1 An lllt1sirated Booklet, f R E E showing bow to ~~Roll· · Y ourOwn., .• and a Book of cigarette papers, w·ill both be mailed, free, tO-any address in U.S. on postal request. Address \Bttll\ Durham~ Durham, N. C., Room 1210. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY ·:ill II II IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUI IIIII 1111111111 111111111111 HIIIUIIIIIIll . 1209

THE ·CQ.NCQ:RPIENS~~ ' ' .. ~ . - ~_.,_- ... ..,.a-- • .. -.,. \ \ • ,...., • • • CHAS. H. TURNER 'Sp~rting Goods 1.. ~ .. \\ • \:~ Albany, N.Y. MOE DEWILDE· Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and te-ather Coods . .J; • • ... • • ., • .:: ~,. .. ,. • • 54 State St., Albany, N.. y . . ~ - . - . ... . - William ~ . \ \i Reinhart McClure & Cowles ' . . J~ • . Designer and -·Maker . of 2 ~ i # • : ~4.~ MEN'S CLOTHES ~ .. 1 • • • 8 James .Street, I ' Albany, N. Y. I . Albany's Progressive Drug Store 0 'I' ., • .... -.. \ : '1 , 1 f Morris Drug Co. ~. • • • • < • 26-28 No. Pearl St. ' ' . Albany A-gency for Whitman's ~· . ~ . . '~Our B11siness is Growing\ ' \' • ,! ' ·. .. . . \\\\.:... Pianos and Player Pianos • Yictor Talkipg ~Machines and Records~ Five exclu· sive Yic.tor Parlors. Easy Payments. ; · · • · · · : ~ ,. • • • -~ .t • l . 64 No. Pearl St., Alhany, N. Y. \Root for Jack'~ FISHER\S ~ .. 2nd SHI~TS 50c 112 No. Pearl St. .Albany DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of f • • • ' • \,_ • ; ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS ~ 1 ·\ J .. • ; j • '. . . .. . ' • ' - ..• 40 and 1-2 Maiden Lane A//JQny, N. Y. -. •• ....... ···- .... u •••• ~: ~---- .. • .. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS Jg ll ' It ~-~ ,, ! t ;.~ ~\ ' I~ :} il ~-, t n, l ' l i j·• ~l ·1 i! n 1~- !; I)' 'l' .~r r 1\ :' I : I~ ; tl ,! ;i i\j \{ :\ ;~ 1'. 1'.: I·' !l ~~ l! II I· l:

! ' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS PARS,ONS' ORCHESTRA Music F urnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE STREET A complete department food store The best in everything for the table at the lowest cash prices Quick - Active - Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street.. Near State 310 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. PAlN:TS, Q:fLS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. A ' 6 SQUARE O:EAL'' for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We . guarantee each buyer of an :article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G Spaulding & Bros 126-128 Nassau Street • • · • 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalo~tue VanVoast & Leonard· GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Com pounded Toilet Articles The S.chenectady Clothing Company ~ Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters iAY YOU SAW IT 1N THE ,. CONCORDY\

W Qt i!fumptnu Albauu THE LARGEST A·SSORTMENT OF .MEN'S HOSERY, UNDERWEAR & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cott<>n, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method. of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already ~ acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi- . tation to call and be convinced of our s.incerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 ill. J. ID~nru 46 7 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. ~nus JEWELERS & ·siLVERSMITHS EVERYT:H'ING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR P..A.PER'S PA.TRONIZERS I I ' r . . ~ . I '· i ~~ ... L 1

sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN: y.l e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H., S. & M .. C:l()thes sells the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of ~ther things to wear too. If you look us over a littl~ we· think you'll like us and our way of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenect dy ~ Art Press

THE Published Weekly by the Students of Union College Vol. XXXVII May 21, 1914 No.Z5 1 ' II' ' . I I \ '. ' ; . ' •' I . I ! . ' I I ! \ f \ \

'I '' ' UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE Tbe college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Conr11e• leading to the decree ot A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to .st-p.dy Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is pre-requisite. 2. Courae leadtnc to the degree ot Ph .. B. LATIN-ScntN'tn'IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. S. Courae leadlnc t01 the decree ot B. &. SciENTrrrc CouRstt- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Oourae leadlnc to the dearree of IJ. E. G~tNEltAL ENGINEERING Cou~tstt- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINESRING CouRsE-This di:ffers from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. E~ttC'TRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• leadlac to cradnate decree•· CouRs.: ltEADING To oncRttE or M. C. E.-This cour-se of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our special Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRSE LEADING 'l'o Dl!~GRF.E: o:F M.S. E .. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE @11 PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other inforn1ation address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars c<>ntaining full in forma- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER._, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P ARKJU, J. N EW'rON Fr.ERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL- This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HUESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. \Everything for the College Man except Exams'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY ..

s- by of its . lS rs. Your Instructors will help you solve your Mathematical ®.· or Philosophical Problems But our store will help In the\Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re \cramming\ for an exam- Wh~n you're ''boning'' for • a qutz- When your making up that ''condition''- Ot when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyt' '- After the steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery and c h e e ring warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY ' Clothes Sho~ 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS . il '.i i' I

THE GONCORDIENSIS ''The House of Fine Clothes\ BABBITT 1 S ROGERS-PEET MAKE WILL APPEAL to the College Man who wants the utmost value for his money in High-Grade Clothing Our stock of this particular make is large and comprehensive. Come in and get acquainted with the best clothing made in America -you'll be delighted at the ric.h fabrics as well as the neat models. Babbitt & Co. • Jla~n iluurq Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ 451-453 BROADWAY SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. ALBANY ART UNION Photographs---Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N. Y. SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY ,. ! .

Tobacco That is Good For Your Nerves ·TUXEDO actually soothes the JOEL HILLMAN proprietor'' Harvey's\ Washing.ton,.D. C. nerves. It is just mild enough to keep your nervous system in poise, your muscles in tone. Unlike other tobaccos, Tuxedo burns cool an·d slow. There cannot be a speck of irrita- tion in a pound of Tuxedo. Great singers smoke Tuxedo just before a performance. Public speak- ers testify as to its soothing influence. Doctors recommend it to smoke.rs u Tuxedo is a, good, whole- some .tobacco, with a mild- · ness and fragrance all its own. It adds many degrees to my pipe pleasure. ' ' ~.h ... .- whose throats are delicate. Tlze Per/ecf Tobacco for Pipe a11d Cigarelte The secret of its superiority is the unique \Tuxedo Processn by which all the unpleasant features are elimi- nated from tobacco. Another reason is that Tuxedo is made from the best tobacco grown- the choicest, mildest, mellowest · leaves of the highest grade Burley tobacco. Tuxedo is widely imitated-but no other manufacturer has succeeded in making a tobacco as good as Tuxedo. Tuxedo will give you the greatest pleasure and satisfaction that money will buy. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient pouch. 5 Famous green tin. }l\ inneT-lined with C with gold lettering, \1 C moisture-proof paper curved to fit pocket In Glass Humidors, 5 Oc and 90c L.S.BROWN Gen. Agent of the Southern Railway at Washington 11 Tuxedo has gaim~d and maintained a high reputation for superiority. Its coolness, mildness, and genuine sooth- ing qualities are unrivalled. '' FREE Send us 2 cents in stamps for post- . age and we will mail you a so\tvcnir tin of TUXEDO tob a ceo to any point in the United States. Address PHILIP R. GOODWIN the illustrator ' 1 There 's zest and encour- agement in :\Pery pipeful of Tuxedo. The sw~etesf, most soothing smc.~k.e 1 kr10uJ. '' THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1209 111 Fifth A venue New York ~~4o~~ 1209

·.' \ THE CO·NCOltDIEN.SIS Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sandwiches unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TBA ROOM SPECIALISTS 3 I Steuben Street, 109 No. Pearl Street Clark & McDonald The.70 Year Old Jewelry and Optical House SCHENECTADY N.V. 23 3 State Street . F. W. Mullin J. F. Leonard A. R. Mullin PRO PRIBTORI ~unit & .<ttnmpuny ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS ..... Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET · Albany, N.Y. Schenectady Outdoor days are doubly pleasant when you KODAK Everybody can make good pictures the KODAK way. Kodaks $6 to $65 Meyrowitz Bros. 68 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGE SARD, • • • Preaident T. I. Van ANTWERP, • Vice•President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treaa. ARTHUR L. ANDREWS, - General Counsel Main office, 47_State St. Park Branch, 200 Washington SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \ ·' ., .. 1' f ~. I

f ~. I Visit THE CONCORDIENSIS We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee Our Victor , Parlor l. 1: Cluett & Sons· ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE 508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY, N. Y STEINWAY WEBER AND PIA:NOLA 'PIANOS Are You Progressing? • ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ i Are you in need of .shoe repairing? If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. Call at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebuilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires l!J Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works Alling Rubber Co. 43.8 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 229 State Street 26 Stores l H 0 L TZ MAN's LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed tbe Sons of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES ~ French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STAT£ AND WALL STS. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE OONCORDIENSIS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow''s Style To-day in a PRINTING Regal Shoe THAT IS RIGHT, REASONABLE The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you. AND ON TIME will see to-morrow in other Shoes. ~rlltnertnby .Art Jrtnn J. H, COMO, Prop. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 1823-J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET Telephone Schenectady ROSES; ORCHIDS AND VIOLETS 11 NO. P'EARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Einding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clintom Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TBR~ACB TELEPHONE 4258-W SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORD Y ''

THJ! CONCORDIENSlS N. ·M. READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER N' 1tt ~ 7G t 1 Roam 74 Parker Building. Special :Rates to students · · . •· tlU .ll:ltUuOtttt ~n t · Telephone 620- W Maker$ of Caps, Gowns and Hoods 31. 31. W4tttrlt DELICATESSEN ''Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between classes. A feed at night One minute fro.m Payne Gate Back of St. John's Church fo tne American Colle~es and Universities from 'PHONE 298-W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store Higgins' ( Drawing Inka I Eternal Writing Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilal!e \\\ Photo Mounter Paste I . Dtawint :Soard Paste .l Liquid Paste Office Paste Vegetable Gl1Je1. etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive -and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS &: CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. ---- -~- ----- FELLOWS: We are going to show you the swellest line of Straw and Panama Hats you have ever seen. Panamas $5.00 up. Straws $1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00 & 4.00 See window display when weather is right. NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. . ·. . 169 Jay Street : EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER -~- Vi.sthn~ Cards \Jed d L n .t .S tataon~r.y lJus1ne s Cards-LetterHeads Class Pins -Mono(rams Crests. Coats \(Arms etc. .OESIGNt;'\.S .[NGf\AVEf\S PR.INTEf\S f.MBOSSe~8 PATRONIZE YOUR P.APER'S PATRONIZERS

; 1 ' :' THE CONCORDIENSIS FISHING TACKLE Boys, now's. the time to \Go Fishing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a Good Outfit insures you against the petty anoyanc-es and means ;Good Luck. We have a Splendid Line to show you-Call in Bristol Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait _:Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trout Flys and Bait Everything for the Fisherman AlBANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ ~!RNl~~ 19{)t 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street ~:~ ~~~~ D4 B. PAIGE, .S1gma Phi House NEAR BARNEY'S 19 {) 7 1 9l3 College Representative 1908 1914 1 am prepared to supply your wants .for the coming social func- tions. There's Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hat~. - \Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbaum, 336 State SJ. Gazette Building SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY ;• - - V< =-- I:t T l 1 1

I ! . The Concordiensis VOL. 37 MAY 21, 1914 NO .. 25 INTERSCHOLASTIC TRACK MEET WON BY OGDENSBURG This School Gains Permanent Possession o·f Trophy. Ogdensburg Free Academy, with a total of 67 1-5 points carried away the honors at the annual interscholastic track meet Saturday afternoon. Not only did Ogdens- burg ~carry a way the honors of this meet, but it won the permanent possession of the handsome silver trophy offered by the col- lege to the team which should win the greatest number of .meets in five years. Ogdensburg won the meet in 1910 and 1911, in addition to Saturday. Schenectady High School was second in the showing, winning 34 7-10 points. Nine schools en treed the meet, several sending large and well-balanced teams. One of the features of the day was the work o£ I-Iarrington, of Ogdensburg, who won the prize for first places, but was hard pressed for carrying away the greatest number of individual points~ fifteen. The individual point prize vvas won by Mudge, of Schenectady, and Chilton, of Ogdensburg, -vvho won 12 points each. The finish in the q uarter-n1ile between Burgess, of Og·· densburg, and Mudge, of the local high school, was one of the prettiest things of the day. Also the finish in the mile run beivveen Dockstader, of Schenectady, and Pollock, of Ogdensburg, was a feature. No records were broketll in the meet, al~ though the time made vvas good in most cases. The new athletic field was in good condition, but perhaps a bit slow, due to the recent rains and the late season. The fact that a fewer number of schools entered this season is due to the inability of many schools to get out-of-doors practice early enough to round out a ieam.. Saturday'5 meet was the first real team work for some of the teams entered. Summary. Following is the official score of the events: 100 yard dash-Won by Harrington, Ogdensburg; ]. Mudge, Schenectady, sec .. ond ; E. Chilton, Ogdensburg, third ; J. Stevens, Ogdensburg, fourth. Time 10 3-5 seconds. I-Ia1nmer throw (12 pounds)-Won by L. Brown, Ogdensburg; L. Marcus, Glens Falls, second; MacConvery, Schenectady, third; W. Corcoran, Ogdensburg, fourth. Distance, 116 feet 11 1-2 inches. 120 yard low hurdles-vVon by H. Har- rington, Ogdensburg; J _ Jvl udge, Schenec- tady, second; D. Hatha.vvay, Schenectady, third;]. Stevens, Ogdensburg, fourth. Time, 14 seconds. 220 yard dash-Won by H. Harrington, Ogdensburg; C. Rich. Hoosick Falls, sec- ond; W. Farrell, Glens Falls, third; F. HuJ ... ser, Ogdensburg, fourtl1~ Time, 24 seconds. Shot put (12 pounos)-Won by F. Pratt,

j j ' .•. : l ' ~ I ~ •· ( ; 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS IIoosick Falls; H. Markham, Ogdensburg, &econd; W. Cook, Kingston, third ; R. Swan, Glens Falls, fourth. Distance 39 feet 8 1-2 f\nches. - Half mile-Won by L. Atkins, Ogdens- burg; E. Feterly, Ogdensburg, third; R. Swan, Glens Falls, fourth. Time, 2 :07 3-5. High jump-Won by E. Chilton, Ogdens- burg; C. Van Kirk, Greenwich, and W. Eddy, Schenectady, second; A. :Cook, Og- densburg; J. Hawner, Hudson;. R. Niles, Hoosick Falls ; L. Marcus, Glens Falls, and A. Abbey, Schenectady, fourth. 5 feet 2 inches. 440 yard dash-(First race)-Won by E. Burgess, Ogdensburg; J. Mudge,. Schenec- tady, second; C. Gifford, Hoosick Falls, third; H. Bradley, Sharon Springs, fourth. Time, 55 seconds. 440 yard dash-(Second race)-Won by E. Fetterly, Ogdensburg; C. Durham, Schenectady, second; L. Marcus, Glens Falls, third; R. Sharpe, Greenwich, fourth. Time, 55 4-5 seconds., One mile run-Won by P. Dockstader, Schenectady; W. Pollock, Ogdensburg, sec- ond; L. Akins, Ogdensburg, third; C. Hart- man, Sharon Springs, fourth. Time 4:54 4-5. Broad jump-Won by E. ChiJton, Og- densburg; J. Mudge, Schenectady, second; W. Wheeler, Kingston, third; French, Kingston, fourth. 20 feet 2 1-2 inches. Half mile relay (teams of four)-Won by Ogdensburg; Schenectady, second; Kings- ton, third; Glens Falls, fourth. Time, 1 :39 1-5. Pole vault-Won by Hathaway, Schenec- tady; Cook, Ogdensburg, second ; Abbey, Schenectady, third, and Curtiss, Schenec- · tady, fourth. 9 feet 9 inches. Summary of points-Ogdensburg 67 1-5; Schenectady, 34 7-10; Hoosick Falls, 10 1-·5; Glens Falls, 9 1-5; Kingston, 5; Greenwich, 3 l-2; Sharon Springs, 2; Hudson, 1-5, and Port Henry, 0. DEBATING :S•OC'IETIES ELECT OFFICERS At a meeting of the Philomatheon Debat~ ing Society, held May 15, the following of- ficers were elected for the year 1914-1915: President, W. A. Hughes, '15, Schenectady; vice-president, A. M. Jacobs, '16,. Albany; secretary, H. R. Knight, '17, Glens Falls; treasurer, M. H. Sternfeld, '16, Albany; representatives on Debating Council: W. A. Hughes, A. M. Jacobs and M. H. Stern- feld. Charles Foster Brown and Carlton Smith were elected to membership at this meeting. At a meeting of the Adelphic Debating Society, held Friday. May 15, the following officers were elected for the year 1914-1915: President, Donald A. Coulter, '15, Schenec- tady; vice-president, Richard E. Taylor, '16, Greenville; secretary, Forest B. Van Avery, '17, Schenectady; treasurer, James L. Fitz- igerald, '15, Ilion ; representatives on De- bating Council : Donald A. Coulter, Ray- mond S. Blodgett, James L. Fitzgerald; chairman Permanent Comrnittee on Mem- bership, Raymond S. Blodgett. HOW A FRESHMAN VIEWED THE SCRAP 1917 finally has avenged itself. All the wrongs of the cane-rush and the .hair-cut- ting have been atoned for, and the newly- made sophomores feel at peace with tl1em- selves. Early Friday evening the \frosh\ showed they were made of the stuff that's put in pepper when they gathered at the Ellis Hospital in a body of almost one hundred. After a strong-arm squad of twenty-five was sent down to the sections and down- street for loose '&sophs,\ the main part ad- vanced on the gymnasium, made an en- trance, placed guards over the portals, and prepared the hose for action. Trouble was threatened by the dutiful janitor, but he was finally dismissed and caused no further 1: ala ma en< 'fb (ir by flo ca1 bo ''f ·l gy le~ na sp \f m g< a< A a1 fr '1 \' s~ tl .d f b c ... . 1 1

alarm. Near twe 1ve o'clock the band of marchers returned io the gymnasium long enough to borrowa few men and a sprinkler. Then the :gray old walls of South College (interior as well as exterior) were washed by the volunteer -:firemen in an attempt to flood out the \sQ])hs who had very pre- cautiously barrie a<fed themselves in. Solne- body then turned tll~ police loose, and the ''frosh\ were dri\7e:tt back to camp in the gym nasi u.m. Then, it seems, that the col- lege \cop\ got sor.e, so he came to the gym- nasium and \put the fritz\ on the indoor sport of playi11g fire. Thereupon the \frosh\ spread their tents in Silliman Hall. Things were then quiet until the fresh- men retnrned to tlle Idol at daybreak and gave the god a l>'ath in red paint. '17 then adopted the system of watchful waiting. At 5 :30 the \sophs\ at last chanced a fight, and they got vv 11at was coming to them from the \frosh.'. The first encounter left '17 still in posses:sion of the Idol and '16 without any gre-en paint. They soon got some, however, .and threw chunks of it at the Idol, which e:xcellent scheme did little .damage. The '\'sophs therefore, had to fight again, only- irnmediately to be driven back by the superior nun1ber and strength of the freshmen ~tass. That was just about the end, for a couple of minutes later the six o'clock whistle blew in unison with the wild cheers of tbe \frosh.\ The scrap was marked by gam e-n.ess and good spirit on both sides, as there vr;e:~re many champions for the individual lists. 1917 says that all they can blame the new j u n iors for is for being wise enough to stay :away until half past five. -'17. Can you say Pusher's Gusher? If so, you are sober! Why- oe sober? Laugh May 26! EDUCA TlO N IN PHILIPPINES 13 and popularized. Vice-Governor Martin, who is also secretary of public instruction, according to a.d vices received,, has deter- mined to devote himself especially to the improvement of the health of the school children. Already remarkable results have been attained in this direction. In the Manila schools alone last year, out of 24-,- 000 children examined, 7,619 required medi- cal attention, and as a result the more se- rious forms of skin diseases and trachoma are now under control. In one province many children were afflicted with hook- worm. There are already nearly half a million children in the schools, and it is be- lieved that by this attention to their welfare the entire Filipino people will soon be great- ly improved physically and mentally. -Rochester Campus. According to an Italian scientist who has classified four thousand cases of self-de- struction, more suicides occur between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five than at any other period in life. A SERIOUS WORD ON A FUNNY SUBJECT The Dramatic Club ran away behind last year for one reason, principally because the students did not give it the support it should have had, the support it deserved. Every other college supports a Dramatic Club and tnakes it pay. There i-s no rea- son why Union College can't do as much. A play on th.e road is one of the best ad- vertising mediums. This can't be macle possible unless the club gets on at least a paying basis. The club does not ask for a donation or a gift, all that it asks is that everybody, as far as possible, support them by attending the performance next Tuesday. A feature of the new administration in the Philippines 1s the educational pro- gramme, whid1 is to be greatly enlarged You will certainly have your dollar we\1 covered by one of the best entertainments that any ameteur dramatic club ever at- tempted, bar none. To say that the show is very amusing and c1ever in itself is cer- tainly putting it mildly. When you see

14 THE CONCORDIEN.SIS Vvalt Baker and Howard Sante rigged up as beautiful Turkish girls you will agree with us. \Peck\ Cleveland and Ken- worthy's droll and ·fu111ny stuff will cer- tainly appeal to you. \Mike\ Ewens, as a Turkish cop, is positively the real thing. Zimm·er rnrakes the best old clothes man this side of ] erusalern you could ever hope to see. Go with Kenworthy and Cleveland to Roumania.. Wadsworth, as an eccentric professor, is a scream. Don't forget to show up at least to the extent of a dollar, so the club can be put on a substantial basis. That's just college spirit. TENNIS TEAM VICTORIOUS Union's tennis team defeated the team from the University of Vermont on our courts Moving-up Day. .Those who saw the games say they were some of the best ever seen here. The singles were partic- ular snappy. Union's players were Wads- worth, Howell, Girling and Soler; V er- mont's representatives were Dowd, McFar- land, Salsbury and Roberts. Wads worth starred for Union and Dowd for Vermont, the singles between these two being the fastest matches of the series. The scores were: I ' Singles: ' . First match ................. 4-6; 4-1 ; 6-2 Second match . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-6; 6-8 Third match . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-3; 6-4 Fourth match ............ ~ .. 6-3; 4-6 ; 6-4 Doubles: First match ................ . 1-6. 6-8 ' Second match .............. . 6-3; 6-3 THE SCRAP As a Member of 1916 Saw It. The mighty host of freshmen prevailed over the heroic band of sophomores, but ii mighty endeavor and gigantic struggling had gained its just deserts, this tale would have been far more pleasant. But what can fifty lone \sophs\ do against myriads and myriads of verdant-covered freshmen, even though right be on their side?' What can so few do, genHe reader? Nothing but raise a peck of trot;tble, scare the timid ''frosh\ out of their shoes, and earn places for themselves in the category of the world's great martyrs. The Idol, indeed, is red--- but the red is not the red of defeat. That Idol was painted with the very life blood of the \sophs ready to jeopardize their night's rest and a few front teeth that gov~ ernment of 1916, for i916 and by 1916 might not perish from this earth. Early Friday night Big Chief Danner as- sembled his braves in South College, and the doors were barricaded. The fastenings held in spite of the frenzied efforts of the \frosh\ to reach their prey. They stormed the camp of the sophomores about 3,000 strong, it seemed. Thick and fast flew shot, shell, and bricks, hut the \sophs\ were in South College to stay. A scout was sta- tioned on the roof with telephone and spy- glass and finally news reached the \sophs\ that the \frosh\ were painting the Idol- painting it themselves, mind you! When n1orn arose the \sophs\ made a sortie upon the \frosh.\ Individual wrest- ling matches went all for the \sophs and indisputably indicated that, had numbers been at all equal, the Idol would have worn a coat of green. But the \frosh\ would not move from their stand about the Idol. They played safe, and when the whistle blew, the heathen god was still red. We are done with Idol scrapping. The dignity of the upper-classmen is now ours. A warning to 1917-beware the Ides of September, for ye, too, are destined to be out-numbered. As Charles Dickens would say, \It is a far, far better thing that I do than I have ever done before; it is a far, far better life that I go to than I have ever known before.\ Farewell, child-like frolic, fare thee well. A \Soph.\ a c

's d e I THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 The noise bureau was very active last Saturday, much to the delight of our friends and ourselves, the band itself not being ex- cepted. There was a young man from the city, Who saw what he thought was a kitty~ l-Ie gave it a pat, And soon after that He buried his clothes-what a pity. -Ex. How many good men did we attract to Union last Saturday? W e'11 have to hand it to Ogdensburg- they're there! Baseball and tennis the same day, and both victories. How's that? We know a young fellow named Willy, But all of the boys call him Tilly; When he leads us a yell, It's easy to tell That he's run out of grease or he's chilly. Dark street, Banana peel, Fat man, Virginia reel. -Ex. Clat has not received many con~ributions lately. How about it, fellows? THE SEVENTH DAY Vvhy is it that the average student ca11 scarcely resist, on a Saturday night, the ap- peal of a fifteen-dollar-a-week co1nedian o-f the one-night-stand variety while h_e pulls off stale jokes which are the result of the keen intellect of some more witty n1ind than his o\vn, while he has no difficulty what- ever on Sunday morning in persuading him- self that his development \iVill not suffer materially by remaining away fron1 church, where eternal life truths are being given out as a resuit of the best work of the keen- est and most influential minds of the com- munity? Why is it that the poorly written and 'worsely\ filled sheets of the Sunday newspapers are irresistably inviting to the intellectual minds -of ·college tnen, ·while books which are filled with the best efforts of the brainest men of all time and which are permitted to collect dust and cob-webs are so designed as to endure for all time, without being molested by these san1e lite- rary lights of our higher institutions? Why is it that water does not run up hill? These and other questions have been for some time in possession of a large part of the attention of the writer. Probably no one of our single institutions is so ilnproperly understood or so incorrect- ly observed by college men as the Sabbath day. By some, Sunday is regarded as a convenient time to do those things for which no time has been found during the week ; in other words, as a convenient clear- ing house for the work of the week. By others, Sunday is com1nonly regarded as a time when it is not just right to work, and so nothing is supposed to be done, and, logically, it is better to read the Sunday Teacher-The final examinations have been sent to the printer. Are there any questions concerning the work gone over? Johnny-Who's the printer? ne,vspaper or play solitaire than to do noth- ing. Few students seem to have taken the trouble to think out the real end or object for which the Sabbath has been set aside.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS Now, Sunday was never meant to be a clearing l1~ouse for t11:e work of the week, because efficient 11Q en with systematic schedules see to it tlat their work is kept up to date so that tbere are no left-overs of the week for Sun(iay. History abounds in evidence that in the 1iong run a 1nan can- not do 11101·e by working seven days in the week than by vvorking six. Nothing is more erroneous than to think that Sunday is a day in which nothing is supposed to be done; life is too sho:lit for a man to spend any part of his time in undirected effort, so that it will be unnec~ssary for us to refute the proposition that it is better to read the Sunday newspaper or to play solitaire than to do nothing. It may be better for a man to drown himself than for him to end his existance by burning himself at the stake, but most people wiU readily admit that this is no reason why one should commit suicide by drowning. But we miss the real issue wben we spend the mental en~rgy over these trifles; we should consider th~e Sabbath as ordained for sometlling positi-ve; we should not spend all of our energy in observing- the things we should noi do, but rather cast about for the things which we should do. Sunday is not a p~oh ibi tion, neither is it a time when we may g~ive ourselves over to self-indulgence~ but ,.it tis an opportunity for us to take time fot the further devel-op- ment of .our moral and spiritual side. We are living in an age when we may scarcely take time to think; when we haven't the time to spend on such t:hings as moral and spiritual development. Right here is w :here the value of the SC!-bbath becomes apparent, not as something restrictive, but as some- thing with an opportunity. It is now prob- able that you will soon reach the point in your development where you will fully com- prehend the ethical a11Hl religious teaching of the Bib l·e, or when~- you will have un- limited knowledge and appreciation of your relations with God and with your fellow men. When yoa have attained to this let me suggest that you :look about you for those not so fortunate as yourself whom you may help to find the only right views of life, to whom you may lend comfort, and for whom you may, by your example and positive efforts to give to others the hope which you yourself have, make life a great deal more worth living. It is right that you should properly do your classroo1n work; you ought to have some wholesale outside interest and pursue it; but you will find if you honestly try that six days are amply sufficient for all of these and that you should not overlook the opportunity afforded by the Sabbath to look out for the higher things which are of infinitely more import to you than all the rest. Ren1ember that the \Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath,\ and in this con- nection you are responsible for the con- servation of your whole life. The upper-classmen at1 ·Hamilton: \have ruled that hereafter freshmen 1nay smoke nothing but corncob pipes on the campus. The rule will go into effect immediately. Y. M. C. A. NOTES Vespers this Sunday will be given over to a discussion of the Northfield Confer- ence, which is to be held fron1 June 19 to 28 at East Northfield, M'ass. This confer- ence is held under the direction of the Stu- dent Department of the International Com- tnittee of Young Men's Christian Associa- tions, with th~ cooperation of the state committees in the territory which it serves. The college association hopes to send at least twenty men. The addresses on Sun- day will be tnade by the fellows in college who were at Northfield last summer. All fellows interested in a good thne for nine days are urged to con1e around to Vespers on Sunday. b t] F ~ n d I I

w et )r m rs .d ld >e lt tt n .e 11 ·e lt y e e r d e e ' '. r ) THE CONCORDIENSIS IJ DELTA THETA PHI WINS The interest in the inter-fraternity base- baH games was increas~d last week, when the Delta Theta Phis defeated the Srgma Phis by a 11-1 score. The Delta Tketas won the game through hard hitting, but, never:t:heless, the Sigs n1anaged to hit their due share. The batteries were as 1oUows: Deltct Theta Phi, Cre ble and Streeter; Sigma Phi, Brunet and G. Woods. Can you say Pusher's Gusher? If so, you are sober! Why be sober? Laugh May 26! FRESHMAN RHETORIC The automobile at night, with gl!aring heaclJight, suggests some hideously fright- ful beast that, because of its atrocities, has been eternally damned to utter w,eird, in- articulate cries, which are, however, suffi- cient[y suggestive of irresponsible and un- restrained deviltry to warn creatures of even a low order of intelligence to seek safety first. HERE ARE THE LAST COUPLE OF WORDS Take it from 1ne, that is some show; in fact, the lines are so funny the actors them- selves, hardened old cynics, though they rnay be, have to appreciate the·m. Then, after toning them up and getting them down, the effect on a spectator is immeasur- able. \Ve believe that these actors of ours are the guys that put the \how\ in \show.'' (DL B.-No bull.) 1\!Ir. Leak, the .coach, says ihe .show is there,. and you can leave it to hitn.. !-J e has added a lot of ideas to the \ and has deftly adjusted the wl~ole to a perfectly harmonious synchro- . n 1'-:tn. Oh, I-I-H-I-I! nearly forgot! The actors an,d 111anagement and public and press agent and all couldn't wait any longer than was absolutely necess,ary, so they moved the ~h n-w hack three days, which makes it fall on May 26. Incidently, May 26 won't uind the ''fall\ part, as this is one of the lighter pieces. From light to bright to cheery is an easy train of thought and quite apropos, mihi crede (Cicero said that, just so we could use it here). Our tasteful \ca.r flyer\ may have s~ruck your eye (id est if you are tall and have had to stand). They gave our motto, which we generously did not copyright, exp:ress.~y so that ye Union boys could ask each other, solemnly or in jocouse vein, as is oppor- tune, \Can you say PUSHER~,s GUSHER?'' If so, you are sober! Why be sober? La-ugll! PUSHER'S GUSHER will make you laugh. Majestic Theatre, May 26, 1914. The constitutio.n of the Student Ceuncil, which was recently drawn up, was ratified by the student body at Williams College and will go into effect at once. This seems to be the beginning of real st-udent govern- ment at Williams. ENGLISH CLUB MEETS AND PLANS PICNIC On Friday evening the English Club held a meeting, at which the possibilities of mov- ing pictures from the stand-point of i:he drama was discussed. Dr. Hale opened the meeting by a talk, in which he expressed his views on the subject. After this a gen- eral discussion tiQllowed. :F'rom the discus- sion that took place, it seem.s. as if the n1ain advantage of the moving pictures is that the scene can be changed almost instan- taniously. The possibility of expressing characters without the usual expla.:nations, which a1·e put in between the pictures~ was also dwelt on. George Wadswortll gave a short talk on moving pictures in Germany. It was suggested during the meeting that the entire club attend the p-lay, given hy the Dran1atic Club,. in a hody. A co1nmittee was also appointed to make prelimi 11 a.ry ar- rangements for a picnic on May 3t

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. ] .. Delchamps, 'IS,. Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Donald A. Coulter, '15, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR \]\lalter C. Baker, 'IS, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, 'IS, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, 16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van \Vert, '16 REPORTERS J. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. M. Gilbert, '17 H. R. Knight, 'r7 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office: SCHENECTADY ART PRESS 206 So .. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. CLASSES OF 1916 AND 1917 The recent sophon1ore-freshmen scrap bore a marked contrast to the Moving-up Day scraps of previous years in several ways-some commendable, others condemn- able. It is not fair to put forth the latter points -vvithout first bringing out the former ones, but it should be distinctly understood that, sin1ply because the scrap had some excellent characteristics, the two classes are not to be excused in any \Nay for the faults \Vhich certainly stand out prominently. For the past few weeks each of the two classes had some rousing meetings for the purpose of urging each and every man to come out on the big night and show some class spirit, as well as to ina:ke definite plans for the system of battle. Through these m'eetings, by planning some very defi ... nite lines of attack and resistance and by , getting n1en to pro1nise their aid and sup- port in the projects at hand, each class was able to create a spirit of interest which was greater than has been shown on sin~ilar ocd casions in recent years. When the accepted time can1e these men certainly kept good their words and, as a result of this, an even- ily balanced scrap, filled with spirit and fairplay and ,n1arked very noticeably by good and effective organization, was put up last Saturday morning. Upon organization and class spirit, then, we congratulate the two classes which have lately ceased hos- tilities to n1ove on into places of greater dignity and n1ore responsibility. 'DhL. destru ctton of windows in South College, however, shows neither good spirit or good organization, but is a custom char- acteristic of violent and ignorant mobs. The ruining of college and private property in the sections by means of water does not add anything to the credit of those who were instrumental in putting the water-cure plan into execution, and gives only another rnark of disfavor to the records of the classes who participated in lthe affair. Another little \joke\ :played by one of the rival classes took the form of uncalled-for tres- pass into the newest and grandest building on our can1pus-Gyn1nasium Alun1nortuu. Did any man who had a hand in this mat- ter think for one moment that such action as the class of 1917 took in the gytnnasium would, for one moment, be sanctioned by any upper.,.classn1an? No, he didn't! He

. ... ' s j THE CONCORDIENSIS knew that he was viotating unwritten laws which he should have kept inviolate. He knew that he was working along lines which lacked in good judgn~ent and strength of purpose, and that the advantages which he 1night hope to gain were very small in coln- parison to the forces which should have led hirn to abandon any project which involved \dirty work\ in the new gymnasium. Let us hope that those men who were mixed up in this matter have since realized that it was not exactly the right thing, and that they will resolve to keep clear of all such actions in the future. To each class new powers have been given, new responsibilities have been added -they have moved up. Let not this mov- ing up be a nan1e. Let its true meaning be shown in the actions of the classes as classes and by the policies of the individuals as members of these <:lasses. We have stepped into new places ; let us fill them honorably and with th:e dignity which should be theirs. We ha-ve taken upon our shoulders the burden of greater responsi- bilities ; let us accept them as men, and bear them as they should be borne, not with a feeling of dissatisfaction, but with a sense of gladness that we may be of better and more efficient service to our Alma Mater as we progress in years and in knowledge. FOR THE STUDENT BODY only to receive its PL1pward boost from them and then to be passed on to the 19ili 6 class next year. It is with a feeling of regret, because we have learned to know and recog- nize the1n with Union as a definite and substantial part of it, just as we recognize our faculty as a definite part of our tCollege., But when we recall the fact that these seniors, though passing out, will still remain true and loyal Union men throughottt their lives, the thought of their leaving us as active students is lightened to some degree. W.e feel that this senior class, mGre than any other which has ever gone before, will leave \these grey old walls\ with the firm determination that they will stand_ organ- ized as Union College alumni and that they will be ready, at the call of any urgent need, to uphold all things which will tencl toward the righteous and legitimate upbui lding of our college. We shall leave our farewells until a more appropriate issue-the Com- mencement number-but we wish now to accept the responsibilities which they have given us with the hope that we wilJ be able to render service to Union as effeciively as have our predecessors, and with thee solen1n protnise that we will do all in our vovv:er. to push forward in the work to wh_.ich they have lent a hand and to which they have given an upward boost. CHEMICAL SOCIETY ELECTIONS It is with a deep feeling of regret that we see our seniors passing out of active college life into the great wide world before tnem, leaving behind work which is ever unfinished to be taken up by the unex- perienced hands of the new senior class, At a meeting of the Union College Chem- ical Society on Tuesday, May 19, new mem- bers were elected. U pperclasstnen ()nly who have elected at least third-year work are eligible, and proficiency and interest in chemistry are qualifications for admission. The neaphites are: F. S. Randles, '1 5 ; R. L. E1nbree, '16; C. D. Lowell, '16; Karl M. Stoller, '16, and L. R. Van Wert, '16.

',j.: . ~· I i ·'I ,:' I ·.1 20 THE CONCORDIENS.IS GARNET NINE ADDS ANOTHER VICTORY TO T'HE RECORDS Nine to five, with the accent on the nine, was the favorable result of last Saturday's little tournament with Rochester. A total of no errors, eleven strike-outs, thirteen hits and a tempestuous first inning was respon- sible for the outcome which cheered the hearts of Union sympathizers and cast gloo1n in large jug-fulls over the animated countenances of Rochester's ''fancy.\ Old vVill vVill Friday stood up to the plate and pounded a quartette of vicious base hits which had an important impart on the ultin1ate-ultitnate of that game-game. That last sentence sounds like it stuttered, doesn't it? Sometimes even the author's pe-n gets the habit. Well, lets, let it go. As was said, Old William Willett Friday obliged obligingly with four-count \em- four ten1peramental bingles, and scored two ,runs. His natne goes in upper case, like this-FRIDAY-because he's the n1an who brings the team luck. \Teedy\ Woods, flushed with honors, gave the prettiest exhibition of sanitary cleaning up loose base hits, off that third base la,vn, which has been seen here for a long time. He handled five assists without a blen1ish, and some of those assists were son1e assists. Two in succession, especial- 1 v vvere labeled \Lin1ited but \Teedy\ tilre\v them both off the track, grappled then1 by the trolley-pole~ and launched them in the direction of first base, where \Ernie\ r- r oughton performed the last obsequies over their quivering fonns. Rochester wanted our Mr. VVoods apprehended for assault, and our Mr. Friday co-erced for battery a nun1ber of times throughout the pastime. \D h\ N \Ernie\ Captain utc · aumann, 1--Iough ton and \Jake\ Beaver got two hits apiece Saturday, w 1 e one o a e s was h ·r f \J k ' \ of the portfolio kind-two sacks squeezed Jnto one. ernoon was H urn mer's pitching. He didn't h.a ve a tling-no control, no speed, no eye, no j\udgment no nothing. He just wasn't there. He didn't belong. The team was in a perpetual state of nervous excitement be- cause it could never tell what Hummer was going to do next-he might even fan an- other man ! Union was splitting it fifty- fifty with Job for sorrow and n1isery while \Hum\ was in the box. In fact, every little while he would pitch a ball that wasn't a strike; and every so often he'd let a man hit one around the infield. Of course, we realize it was an off day, and we think that some day, if ever Hum- mer does get in real forn1, he may pitch a real good game of ball-like shutting out the Athletics without a hit, for instance, or something like that. Hutnmer said he wasn't in shape himself. The first inning was the tnost interesting of the game. \Stan\ Smith went in for Union, but the first two n1en up-Willis and Schoen-each laced out two-bagg-ers. \Stan\ nicked Chesbro in the ribs and walked Scheibel. Then Stnith was derricked and Hummer put his glove on. That was all he needed. Two n1ore hits made a total of four runs for Rochester. A strike-out and two infield assists retired the side. The lead of four runs looked big-for about two mitJ.utes. After that it vvas mere- ly a n1atter of how many hits the Garnet could garner. \Dave\ Beaver was out on an assist by Schoen at third. Schoen drop- ped Woods' fly and \Teedy-\ was safe on first. Hits by Naumann, D. Beaver and Zimmer sent three runs across. 1\'hen Fri- day hit safely to left and Barclay knocked in Zimmer and Friday. Score, 5 to 4. After that Union scored almost at will, getting a run apiece in the second, third, seventh and eighth. Rochester used three pitchers in a futile endeavor to stop Union's batting bee. The one unfortunate thing about the aft- Score:

:Rochester AB R H PO A Willis, 2b. . ............ 4 1 1 1 1 Schoen, 3b. . ............ 4 1 2 2 1 Chesbro, cf. . ........... 4 1 1 0 0 SchiebeC c. I I ·I .1 e I I I 4 • I I 3 1 0 10 1 H . ' ,et e en, p. •• t .......... 4 0 0 1 1 I-Ia1n'le, ss. ••••••••• to •• 4 0 0 0 1 Townsend, rf. . ........ 4 0 1 6 2 Pal'ier, lb. e I I I I II I I I e e I 3 0 0 4 8 Steuben, lf. . ........... 2 0 0 0 0 Blair, rf. I I I I I I I e I I t W • I 2 0 0 0 0 Union Totals .....•........ 34 4 4 24 15 !i AB R B PO A ' D. Beaver, c. ........... 5 0 io 12 1 Woods, 3b . ......... ~~ .. eS 2 0 1 5· Naumann, ss. .......... 5 1 2 0 0 Houghton\ lb. . ....... 4 0 2 10 0 J. Beaver, lf. . ......... 3 2 2 0 0 Zimn1er, 2b. . .......... 3 l 1 0 1 Friday, rf. . ............ 4 2 ··;,;4 1 1 Barcley, cf. ........... 4 0 f~ 1 0 ~y~ Smith, p. .............. 0 0 0 0 0 Hummer, p. .. \ ........ 3, 1 1 2 12 Totals .............. 36 9 13 27 20 Rochester .......... 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-4 lJnion .............. 51 1 0 0 1 1 0 x--9 Errors-Rochester: Schoen (2), Willis, Townsend. Struck out-By Hummer, 11; by Herendeen, I ; by Townsend, I ; by Patchen, 7. Hit by pitched ball-By Smith: Schiebel; by Townsend: Hummer. Tvvo- base hits-Schoen, J. Beaver. Umpire- Glenn. Attendance-1,500. Saturday's scores of Colleges Union will meet this season are as follows : Rutgers, 5; N. Y. U., 3. · Middlebury, 3; Rensselaer, 2. Trinity, 1 ; Wesleyan, 1. West Point, 1; Fordham, 5. Can you say Pushe·r's Gusher? If so, you are sober! Why be sober? Laugh May 26! MOVING-UP DAY IN REVIEW Moving-up Day, with its usual excite- ment and visitors, is over for another year. The happenings of the day differed very little fro.m the annual custom, the increased number of strange faces about the campus being the only remarkable change. An un- 11 . . \ \ f b f usua y prom1s1ng crop o· su · - reshmen were entertained at the houses on the \hill\; many of them have already signified their intentions to make Union their Aln1a l\1ater . ' which seems to point towards an even larger class than \seventeen\ for next year. Moving-up Day started on Friday night, when over eighty freshmen, in battle array, appeared mysteriously around the idol and started a huge bon-fire to make their long vigil somewhat more comfortable. Their numbers, strange to say, increased rather than diminished as morning approached, and, when the \sophs\ made attack at about five-thirty in the morning, the idol vvas sur-- rounded by a formidable band of defenders. The \sophs who numbered about seventy, rushed from several different directions, but were repulsed each time. When six o'clock came, the agreed time for cessation of hos- tilities, the idol was still in possession of \seventeen thus giving victory to the freshtnen for the final scrap of the year. The exercises in chapel did not deviate from the usual custo1n. The seniors, in caps and gowns, marched to the regular service for the last time as a class and the fresh- men came joyously to bid a final farevvell to their balcony seats. Following prayers, the student meeting· \vas called to order by George Le'-'vis, and a few words on baseball and tennis were said by Captains N aun1ann and \IVadsvvorth. In the tnoving-up pro- gran1, which followed, each class was lead into its new seats, marching to the time of the 1914 class song, VV\illian1 A. Mudge's conlposition. The outgoing Terrace Coun- cil J hen chose the four n1en fron1 the junior class for the cotning year. The exercises

( \ 22 THE CONCORDL~NSIS wefe continued with the welcoming of the ne\ilr council by \Steve\ Story, president of the outgoing body, and by a few words of wisdom to the '14 men by '.'Charely\ Wald- ron, secretary of the Graduate CounciL At· this time, \Charley who is also a member of t:he Athletic Board, :awarded life passes; to \Dalt\ Sarvey, Telfer, \Dutch\ N au.- mann, \Doc\ Howell, Baker and Case, '\¥ho have been the prominent officials in th~ ma.ior sports this year. The time-honored \al!ouette\ song was sung fault_less1y, by,~ Louis De La Vergne. ''Alma Mater/', by all the students, concluded the program. I~ollowing chapel, the classes marched to the idol, where the sopohoro1nes and fresh- men applied the white paint profusely in token of peace, and the first-year men dis- carded their green caps in favor of the new garnet and gray class hats. AccQrding to the custom inaugurated by the class of 1914 in their freshmen year, the green caps were burned to ashes, 1n the sa1ne fire that had kept the scene of combat light during the-· night. The rem<tin-der of the morning was taken up in the running off of the pre- lin inaries of the annual interscholastic meet on Alexander Field, ancl :in the defeating of the University of Ve.rmont in tennis by Ge')rge Wadsworth's clan. The final score in the latter event was 4-2. In the early afternoon the visitors adjourned to the new athletic field to see Ogdensburg Free Acad- emy win the final meeting of the Union cup series. Schenectady Hig-h School was sec- ond; Hoosick Falls took third place, and Glens Falls High School fourth. After the meet the baseball . tean1 reeled off its 9-4 victory over the University of Rochester. At seven-thirty a large fire was built be- fore the gymnasi11m steps, where the ustudes'' and visitors had gathered for the usual campus tneeting. George Wads- worth, '14, presided and introduced the fol- lowing speakers : '~Prexy\ Richmond, Conch Dawson, \Dutchy\ Barnes and \Doc\ Mac. The singing of \Alma Mater\ efJ.c~ed the campus meeting and .the day's prograh1:. I ~1 co~clusion we would say that the band, qnd.er the personal direction of the fan '.ous.i; leader, \Charley\ Male) was de- er de ~dly the hit of Moving-up Day, and. was a p; ts factor in the entertaining of our guests. t c,tping ahead now but Comm·encement! HOUGHTON'S ENGAGEMENT \ ANNOUNCED I\ is\ and has been a well-known fact to ev{ :yone in college that \Ernie\ Houghton, . the 11gh \busy with athletics, in which he '\excels has always found sufficient time ~:a.ni' energy to show the faculty that he is ·hig 'uly c~pable of those things which prove :a \t an a good student. However, many of \ts little dreamed that \Ernie\ had added thE p,astin1e .. of love to his list ,until we lyarifed.a.few days ago that Mr. and Mrs. ~r.~ni~m M. Brooks, 866 Stanley Street, h~ ·Te ~nf11ounced the engagement of their ~ ~~~~lghter, , Hazel, to Ernest Baker Hough- tq\ 1. We extend our congratulations and be\;t wishes to the captain of the 1915 bas-· k. b~ll- te.am. ~ASTLE DANCE PRIZE WON BY UNIONITE \Bob\ Duane has recently demonstrated that Union excels not only in good scholar- ship and fine athletics, but in the art of dancing as well. At the Castle's prize per- formance, which took place in the Har- manus Bleecker Hall in Albany last week, \'Bob in company with a fair young Trojan, brought home the prize, which con- sists of ~ beautiful loving cup. The prize, which is well worth seeing, is now on ex- hibition at the Sig Place. The young re- ceipiants may well be congratulated. The baseball team of Keuka College has been disbanded. The reason as given by the president of the college is. the poor stand- ing of some of the men in their classes. \

THE CONCORDIENSlS 23 ? •• Tbere is, happy to say, no n1ore que~tion about it! We have had a show conunitte~, L.. h d . ( '\h d\\ we _uave re earse 1t not re_: · • earse · as it is of the undying variety that will never occasion a hearse), and we are going to let yol!t see the result thereof, to your tren1en- dous advantage. The show is called, enphoniously e1tongh Pusher's Gusher, and is really quite a neat little farce; breezy, bright, snappy, with enough of \young man's fancy Hghtly turning\ to please the spring-sick svr ain. Another thing of real merit in the piece is the true and unexag- gerated college atmosphere inculcated. No lou<! ''rah rah r Oh, Clarence! Harold slapped mel\ stuff, bttt really humorous college dope that only a college man could write. Just wait and see! The show will be at the Ma.jestic Theatre on May the twenty~ixth ('11.1esday next), and we advise you truly, bring along your girl and enjoy an evening· of snappy, clean fun. FOUR CHOSEN FOR TERRACE COUNClL OF COMING YEAR One of the events which is always watched with keen interest is the choosing o£ members for the Terrace Council which ta:kes place at the chapel exercises on Mov- ing-up Day. Last Saturday this interesting ce ren1ony took place, resulting as noted below: Mr. Howard L. Woods of Ilion, N.Y., the fraternity. The second gentleman, Henry L,. Faust of Sch·enectady, better known as \Heine was then \tapped'; gently ( ?) on th.e back and dragged into the haven of Honorable Sirs. \I:-ieirte'' has been in the limelight of his class for some time and the choice was not a surprise to his classmates. During his college career he has held the foHo·wing honors: Freshman banquet comn1ittee} president of the Chemistry Society~ editor- in-c.fiief of the 191~ \Qarnet assistant n1an- ager of the 'varsity baseball team, class bas .. ket-ball, Y. M. :C. A. Cabinet, and a n1e1nber of the Press Club a11d Black Cat Ciub. I-Ie is a men1ber 9f the Alpha Delta Phi frater- nity. Third to be chosen was Raymond S. Blodgett of Jefferson, N. Y. \Blodg\ is known to all as a man of sterling qualities and is one of Union's most popular sons. During his three years at Union he has been very active in Y. M. C. A. work, be- ing treasurer of the organization for two years and a 111ember of the cabinet. He has also been on the class track squad, rnem ber of the Black Cat Club, Sophomore Soiree Comn1ittee, varsity debating tea111, secre- tary to the Debating Council, and president of the junior ~lass. \Blodg\ was also a delegate to the Kansas City Y. M. C. A. convention, held at Christmas time at Kan- sas City, Mo. He is a member of the Pyra- mid Club. first man picked from the junior ranks, has been active in the following college activi- ties: Freshman year, musical clubs; first and second years in the college band, and second and third years on the basket-ball and baseball teams. \Teedie\ is the crack center on our basket-ball tean1, and is doing initial work as third baseman on the vars>itv \ The fourth man chosen, as the juniors marched by, was Harold J. Delchamps of 1\Iobile, Alaban1a, familiarly known as \Jeff.\ During his two years at Union the following honors have been his : Member of Pre~s Club, English Club and Black Cat Club. associate editor of 1915 \Garnet\ and editor-in-chief of the Concordiensis. There are still three members to be chosen for the ~Council. These will be elect- ed by the student body in the early part of the fall terrn. nine. He is a n1em ber of the Psi Upsilon

. : i THE CON·CORDIENSIS Can you say Pusher's Gusher? If so, y0tt are sober! Why be sober? Laugh May 26! THE BASEB·ALL SEAS·ON THUS FAR April 18-. Union, 4; Stevens, 3. May 2-R. P. I., 5 ; Union, 4. May 9-· Union, 3; Hamilton, 2. !v1ay 13-Colgate, 13; Union, 0. May 16-Union, 9; Rochester, 4. Saturday, May 23-· Wesleyan on the, Campus. Game called at 3:30P.M. Wednesday, May 27-Army at West Point, N. Y. Saturday, May 30-Rutgers on the Cam- pus. Game called at 3 :30 P. M. Saturday, June 6-R. P. I. on the Cam- pus. Game called at 3 :30 P. M. Tuesday, June 9-Colgate on the Cam- pus. Game called at 2 :45 P. M. THE VIVISECTOR A Literary Contribution When I was a boy 1n school perhaps the one individual whom I really feared was not, as many might suppose, the stern old cavalry veteran who taught our mathema- tics, but one of my classtnates, John Kalten- hertz. It was not a physical fear, for I had never seen him offer to molest anyone, while in his manner he was as suave and courteous to the smaller boys as he was to his instructors. Still there was always a kind of lurking dread in his piercing black eyes that always made me glad when I could avoid meeting or conversing with him. There was always a lurking, almost superstitious; fear of something devilish and uncanny about him that I have never felt toward anyone, though I have more than once faced the n1ost desperate crimi- nals and outlaws. My feeling, however inexplicable, was not without some reasonable ground for disliking him, and this was his barbarious cruelty toward the lower animals. Dozens of times I have seen him stretch earthworms between two pins on his desk and slowly slit them from end to end with his pen .. knife. One time he half removed the skin from a H ve field mouse, sprinkled it with salt and sewed it back again, and left it to die in agony. Another time he took a puppy and cut the toes from its front feet with a pair of scissors during the noon hour. We heard the yelping of the poor creature and ran up and took it away. Big Tom Kane vvas on the point of thrashing him, but he merely fixed those fiendish eyes on hitn and the fellow retreated hastily, giving back the puppy, which we heard was afterward tor- tured to death. I have often marveled at the occurrence, since Tom was one o:f the tnanliest of boys and was killed only a year ago stoppil)g a runaway which the police did not dare to tackle. I might mention off- hand a score of other barbarities that I had personally witnessed, and I have no doubt that there were hundreds of others I never saw. Kaltenhertz graduated in the same class as I did and went to a German medi- cal school, and for twenty years I never heard of him. About tvvo weeks ago, as I was returning from a stroll in the country, an auto came to a smooth, gliding stop beside me and a familiar voice called: \I-Iello Jake, old boy; jump in.\ I -vvas standing on the river bridge at the titne and I must confess that I never in my 1 ife felt a stronger impulse to jump in the river than at the sound of that voicea I felt myself turned around by some mys- teriot1s power, and before I knew it I was seated beside my old schoolmate John Kal- tenhertz and speeding swiftly toward the city. I do not recall that we conversed n1uch on the way in. I learned that h~ had recently established an office and laboratory in the city and was requested by him to ride around and see it. As we were passing the Italian quarter he drove the car .close to the cttrb and reached out and drew inside a lad of perhaps eight years and spe<l on, n1uffling the boy's mouth with his hand.

THE CONCORDIEl'lSIS The laboratory proved ·to be vvhat I had d k . d f \Bl b d' '' ..~ . i. expecte , a 1n · o · ue ·ear;,. s qen, w1tn victims of animals in all stages o:f torture, the devilish ingenuity of which baffles de- scription. In a wooden box vver e four of the largest, hungriest looking h()~as ecats I have ever seen, the largest was nearly as big as a s1nall collie, and all looked and acted cts though they had not been fed for a week. At length I ventured to ask wh~t he pro- posed doing with the Italian boy, and for an answer he opened a door into an operating room. The boy followed as meeldy as a dog, being quite under the inJluence of his captor's mysterious eyes. I was horrified to see him strap the boy to a table, but one look froze a yell I had on nty lips and I stood against the vvall in a tra11ce as he took a surgeon's knife and set to work. Without giving an anaesthetic of a.ny sort, he laid bare several nerves, cutting a way skin and flesh in a most reckless manner. The lad writhed in agony; but wa~ gagged so he could not cry out. After wllat seemed an age the operator stopped with. an oath- the boy had ceased to struggle and I knew the end had come. I fully expected to meet the same fate and mustered all uy energy for a yell, but I was as in a dream and could not n1ake the slightest sound. ·The villain started for the doo.r by which we had entered, muttering a.s he went out, \The cats; they will take care o£ the body.\ Then he passed through, closing- the door behind hime I imtnediatel:y felt released from the spell and thought to leap from the vvindow and make my escape when I heard the most horrible sound L -ever knew a hun1an being to utter---.:if htunan this creature was. A terrible con1.1notion in the adjoining room, with snarls, yell~ and crash of falling articles, told tne thai a battle royal was on. Peering through tb e keyhole I saw him trying to ward off the attacks of the hunger-infuriated eteatures, which had already torn him in a score ()f places. Then he rushed toward the door, calling my name and begging me to help him. I could stay no longer, but with a feeling of exultation I have never experienced be- fore or since I leaped from the window and hastened to the police station. Two hours later a posse of officers battered open the door, which had locked: automatically, and shot the cats, now fat and sluggish. They had killed the vivisector and eaten every ounce of flesh from his bones ! Yours truly. AN INTERVIEW WITH A SCHOLAR Naylor Gives Dope on Poetry Writing. \Good evening. Is this Mr. Naylor?\ \I am the man.\ \I am a reporter from the \Concordy and have come around to hold an interview with you regarding your poetry which has appeared from time to time in the columns of our paper. So many inquiries have been coming to our office in the last few weeks demanding in- formation about you that the editor has sent tne to ascertain the facts. Anything that you have will be most gratefully received.\ \Well about poetry is one thing and writing poetry is another thing. As a rule I have not found the writing of verses very difficult. If you can get a rhyme and keep the rythm the hardest part is over.\ \How about subject matter, Mr. Naylor?\ \Subject matter is secondary. However, we can find enough material around us if we could appreciate it. Many ho111ely incidents could be woven into harmonising lyrics and ballads. Such was Tope's, 'She Raised Aloft Her Wooden Arm,' and many others.\ \Have you ever raised to eternal fame any humble incident or thing?\ \Well to be frank, Mr. Reporter, I have. Right here is a poem, 'The College Band-A Dream.' The incident that called both these noble lines is as follows : I was at a basket- ball game this winter at the new gym. The band was there as usual, but never had I heard

THE CON;CORDIENSIS its music so beautiful before, never so har- n1onious. It was playing, I believe, the \Inter- national Rag.'' Divine and sublim~e are feeble words to describe the notes of this soul inspir- ing lyric as the band poured them forth, and as they echoed and r~e-echoed from swimming pool to skylight. Under their magical influ- ence I feel asleep. I dreamed I had reached a far away and beautiful city. But the verses express it better. They have never before been published but I a1n going to include them in a volume <?f my collected verse soon to be published. Let me read you the first few stanzas:- \I drean1ed I had reached the wonderful land \!\Those wonders ren1ain half untold, And I thought that I stood just outside of the gate That 1 eads to that city of gold. \Then as I clin1bed the crystal stairway, I thought no matter how fa:ir, No place can ever be .heaven to me Unless \Bill\ and his Band are there. \And vvhile I waited outside of the portal, For St. Peter to find the key, It seemed I heard ( un) musical sounds, Strangely familiar to me. \Now they came like the waves of the ocean Like the winds that rock the tree, Now like the gentle zephyr That ripples the deep blue sea.\ \Mr. Naylor, those verses are wonderful. In sublin1ity they rank with Schelly; in rhetoric with Pope; in grandeur of thought with Walt Mason. · T'o write just one line of such is the highest aspiration of thousands. But, Mr. Naylor, you spoke about a collected volume of your works. \Vhat about that?\ \I intend to print it soon.\ \What will you name the volun1e ?\ ''Ignoramus.\ \And to whom will you dedicate it?\ \To the 'College Idol.' \ \I see by your books that you are a classical student Do you ever get any inspiratioa from the classic authors to write Latin or Greek poetry ?\ \Sometimes. Those not hitherto published', I shall include in my collected volume. I have often turned to the classics for subje~t matter. I mean in my 'odes.' My latest one is, 'Ode to the Blue Gate.' Here is the first stanza:- \Old Blue Gate what hosts have entered, To this scene of mental strife, Who now are learning larger lessons, In the stern old school of life?\ \Right there with that classic -stuff. Oh cold and cruel world, a greater than Horace is here, hear him! So you versify any happen- ings about your work in college?\ \Not 1nuch. There is no de1nand for th()se things now-a-days. But here is a starter:- \An angle given in quadrant four, Makes the probletn so complex, That I don't know when y is 7 Whether its sine is x.\ \I atn not a critic, but I predict for y-oll a long and enviable career in the world of letters. Certainly, I am taking a lot of yoar time, but one more question. Did you write a class song?\ \That's just what I was doing when yo·u came in. Here are the first lines-all I have done:- l\nd bring to thy shrine the fairest of gifts~ Should come to thy altar today, \()ld Union if all thy fair loving sons 'That have c0111e to them out on the ·way.\ \Again wonderful. I vvill go and let y(:)t1 finish the song. Mr. t\faylor, \vhen you ~et ready to publish your collected verse, n1ar not our publishing firm give you prices? Thank you, good night.\ -'r6. .:an you say Pusher's Gusher? If so, yoh are sober! \i\Thy be sober? Laugh May 26!

_1 • THE CON·CORDIENSIS Q . ' utnn s~ Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store : PROCTOR'S \THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ What kind of Candy do you like? Most of you will answer chocolates. V AUDEVIL~LE 'KlNE·MACOLO R PHOTOPLA Y5 It matters not just what special flavor has your preference--they Every afternoon & ~Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to ll SUNDAY.S: are ALL here. Page & Shaw's Chocolates $1.00 a pound-the Elite Candy. Feature Pictures Special Music Liggett's Chocolates 80c a pound- Liggett's perfect asbortment, each piece different-no two alike. Exclusively at Quinn's. Fenway Chocolates 60c a pound. Huyler's Chocolates-new pack- age $1.00. Each and every the best in its res- pective line. QUINN'S-the pJace for Fine Chocolates Telephone Q • ' . anything to Utfin S Cal/1285 teefel Bros. ALBANY Slim Trim and Timely Spring Suits Designing a Steefel Model isn't as sinl- ple as turning over your hand or snapping your finger. Styles aren't tossed off like tin cans are cut out. It takes rare skill to style a coat-particularly if it is to fit a lithe young figure-think it over, then come in. The sort of hats, shoes and furnish· ings that young men like and wear. 2 to 5 7 to l 0:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies l@1 Jay A. Rickard Co. 253 State St. \Schenectady's Sporting Goods Store\ A Good English Style EVERY SHOE A STANDARD SHOE Douglas $3 to $4 a pair. Heywoods $4 to IS· Surefits $4 to $6. Stetsons $6 to $7. Hanans $6 to $8 Sixty styles for all occasions PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

,, I I ,, BARNEY'S Wher• Ever:ybod:J Shops Students will find that they have every- thing at ..... BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Shoes and Oxfords That Satisfy Crossett Bench Made Ralston Health Ajax $5.00 $4.00 & $4.50 - $3.00 & $3.50 EMERY'S ·~ .-~ ••• ... • ·-· • '# • •• - •• -~ • ~... .. ..... -· • ~. • - ... ~ • -Correct Dancing Also the new dances . Prof. Kilgallen's Private Dancing Classes Further inform.ation see Hand Book page 52 Yate's Boat House The largest and be1t equipped in the state. Excellent Dancing Hall, which can be rented for Pri- ate Parties only, in connection with house • - - - · · 29 Front Street Both Phones Fine Furniture at Popular Pricea JOHN WAGNER CO. 260-262 State Street. We Announce the season f s latest developments in refined apparel for the particu· lar man ........ . Clothing - · · Furnishings - - - Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three·Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Hesitation Waltz and the One Step taught in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. ·Schenectady v. E. Whelde~a, Mana 11 ... Arcade Hall Near N. Y. C. Depot 'Phone 2l21·J SAY YOU SAW IT IN rl'HE '' CON CORDY \

THE CONCORDIENSIS ''Balmacaans'' for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $24 and $·27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. J. HILLMAN 617 State Street Th Gl . . . . B k.. c • Tte Students' Problem Solved e eason oo o. · 104 JAY\ STREET., Gleason Building •· On your way to the Post Office'' PICTURE FRAMING & ENGRAVING SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SHOP ''THE STUDENTS' FLORTST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 3140 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can get the extra half hour sleep ·every m;orn· ing and still be on time for c·hapel. The sol uti on of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady lluminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S P.A.TRONIZERS

; i THE CONCORDIENSIS SAUER BROTHERS Printing, Binding, Makers of High Class Stationery, Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special Ruled BlaRk Books Made to Order. 316 State Street-Phone 2799-W. ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL AND RESTAURANT ' ' Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y •. GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New. Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. ~eeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UN-ION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited .... The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON'S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks, Developing, Printing and Enlarging LYON'S 3 DRUG STORES Special Rates to Students 422 STATE STREET LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh ·OPTOMETRIST 426 State Stre·et Eyes Tested and G1asses Fitted C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Class Caps, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 2lOU·W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flowers we grow at our own greenhouses right here in Schenec· tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L. Greenhouse 1408 State St. Phone 1543-J 'Jutnn Nattnuali&auk ~tQtttrtta~g1 N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORD!\'•

T'HE CON·CORt>IENSIS Engraving a·nd Embossing Lowest prices consistent with Jligh class work, will be quoted to college students., from now until commencement. Uni:o:n Book Co., Inc. 237 STATE STREET THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof Orcheatral Concerts during dianer and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Alao THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hotela conducted on European Plan Under directiofi of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL A. R. Zita's Orchestra SCHENECTADY. N. Y. FURNTURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. furnished music at Union College 1905 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 and 1913 ' ' , ' ' ' Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 167 H )t St Alb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ICe an es., ami OD . • t BDJ TAXI SERVICE Quick. Dependable Day and Night · Service. The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of·town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Ans time. Shannon & Son 118 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE THE. BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office•• PA'l'RONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

'' . ,, ' THE CONCORDIEN:SIS The Vogue of ''Bull'' Durham ' in fresh, delicious, hand-made cigarettes, was never so predominant as it is today. Men of wealth and cultured taste everywhere-in the exclusive club, on the private yacht, along the avenue, at every notable gathering and occasion- roll their own cigarettes with \Bull\ Durham, to suit their indi- vidual preference. 'rBull\ Durham Cigarettes have a wonderful, unique, exquisite savor and relish, found in no other cigarettes-in no other tobacco. GE.NUINE: 6 ·BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO (Enough for forty hand-made cigarettes in each 5c sack) The inimitable flavor of \Bull'' Durham cannot be duplicated in a ready-made cigarette-the delicate, elusive fragrance would escape long before the cigarette is smoked. It can only be retained in the hulk of tobacco in the \Bull\ Durham sack-and enjoyed in the fresh- rollel \Bull\ Durham cigarette. ,_ .AsklorFREE oook of'' paper:s•• with each 5c 8ack Learn this distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment today- \roll \ your own. An illustrated Booklet, f R E E showing how to \Roll Your Own,'' and a Book of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on postal request. Address ''Bull'' Durham, Durham, N. C. Room 1210. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY llllllllrriiiliiiDfiUirniiiiUIHIIfllllfilllllllllllllllliJlillll 1210·

THE CON,CORbiENSIS CHAS. H. TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N.Y. IV10E DE WILDE~ Hatter and furnisher. l~unks and leather Coods 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. 1Rn1ni~ tQt iurbrr William J. Reinhart • McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu- sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N. Y. 64 ]\/o. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack\ . Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 NrJ. Pearl St. Albany 2nd SHIRTS 50c Agency for Whitma.n's 112 No. Pearl St. \Our Business is Growing\ DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ~ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 40 and 42 M aid~n Lane Albany, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CON·CORDIEN.SIS PARSONS' O·RC'HESTRA Music F :urnished for all Occasions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 'STATE STREET. A complete department food :atore The best in everything for the table at the lowest caah prices ' Quick - Active - Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the, World They wear longer-they cost less .. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and CO:MPANY 206 So. Centre Street. N~ar State 310 State Street, SchenectaCly BeDinger Paint Co. PAINTS, O:JLS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishel 212 So. Centre St. A ••sQUARE DEAL., f<>r everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.'• We guarantee each buyer of an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will gi\e satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Na11au Street • • pau ng lOS. 520 Sth Ave., New 'York Send for Catalo-ue VanVoast & Leonar,d GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. Cigars · Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles The Schenectady Clothing Company ~ Stein Blocb Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters SAY YOU iiJAW IT IN THE ,. CONCORDY\ -

WI,t ijamptntt Albany THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSIERY, UNDERWARE & SWEATERS lN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine lin,e of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are rig.ht-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods, please consider this a personal invi· tation to call and be convinced of our si.ocerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street . Albany,N.Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y . ~nus JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. PATEONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZER8

sc & Good Clothes SAY MEN: YJ e sell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and you know that a store that sells H~, S! & M., Clothes sells _, __________________ _ the right kind, and naturally must sell the right kind of other things to wear too. If you look us over a little we think you'llli~e us and our waL_of doing business. The College Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady .. ..._.. Art Press

PVBLlSI-IEDaWEEKLY BY· THE STVDE NTS • OF .. VNION • C OLL EG E Vot XXXVII Wisdom consists in ris .. ing superior both to mad- ness and to common sense, and in lending one's self to the universal delusion without becoming its dupe. -1V1rs. Humphrey Ward. MAY 28, 1914

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1.. Courses leading to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- dmJed in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to .study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite.. · 2. Cour~e leadinc to the degree ot Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTI:F'IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 8. Cour•e leadinc to tlte de&\ree of B. J. SciENTIJ.tiC CouRSE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadlns to the de~ree of B. E. GgNERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the CJciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession, and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRs~-This differs fron1 the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Cou:RSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education, with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. Cour•e• leadiDtr to arradnate decree•. CouRSE LEADING ro DEGREE or M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work JOSEPH NUTTALL Caterer Office 442 State St. Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone 2845 for free sample of our spedal · Coffee at 25c or Teas at 30c CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o~· M.S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREg oit PH. D.-This cour~e of two years of graduate study requires for admis· sian the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTiviENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY 11EDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac~ tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa· tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LA \f\1 AMASA J. PARKER, J. NEwroN FI:ERo, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW ScHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a bui 1 ding wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $rIO. For catalogue or other information, address: }OHN C. W A'l'SON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. • 'Everything for the College Man except Exama&' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Silliman Hall Phone 1896· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green (;ate SAY YOU SAW IT IN 'rHE u CON CORDY ,. I' I I 1

I' I I THE CONCORDIEN·SIS - ' - ' ,..; - ' In the''Wee Sma' Hours'' When you re \cramming\ for an exam- When you're ''boning'· for • a QUIZ- When your making up that ''condition''----· Ot when you're wrestling with the intracies of \Analyf '- After the .steam radiator is cold and the room begins to get chilly- THEN you'll appreciate the cheery a n d c he e r.i n g warmth of the G. E. Twin Glower Radiator, ready at the turn of a switch, any time, day or night and attachable to any lamp socket. Try one and you'll buy one. For sale by the Schenectady Illuminating Co. Made by General Electric Company Schenectady, - New York Your lnstructora will help you solve your Mathematical or Philosophical Problems But our store will help Solve your Clothes Problem Spring Clothing $10 $12.50 $15 DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY Clothes Shop 310 STATE STREET Schenectady, N. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPERJS PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS ''The House of Fine Clothes'' BABBITT 1 S ROGERS-PEET· MAKE WILL APPEAL to the ·College Man: who wants the utmost value for his money in High-Grade Clothing A- &&AWl Our stock of this particular make is large and comprehensive. ·Come in and get acquainted with the best clothing made in America -you 'U be delighted at the rich fabrics as well as the neat models. Babbitt· & Co. Jlttltt JJluur~ Steuben St., Albany, N. Y. • r mer m \Albany's Greatest Clothiers\ 451-453 BROADWAY SUITS MADE TO ORDER $20.00 to $40.00 --AT-- S. E. Miller's 34 and 36 MAIDEN LANE ALBANY, N. Y. ALBANY A~T UNION Photoaraphs .. --Artistic 48 No. Pearl Street Both Telephones Albany, N .. Y. i.AY YOU SAW IT IN THE •• .CONCORI)J' ••

·' THE CONCORDIENSIS Our Leading Athletes Join with other famous Americaas in Praising Tuxedo Tobacco MARTIN SHERIDAN O UR world-famous athletes- . who triumphed for America at tbe Olympic Games in Stockholm -are among the thousands who declare that Tuxedo is not only ex- tremely enjoyable, but ben·eficial. . Famous Americans in every walk of li.fe-doctors, lawyers, actors, singers. public speakers, statesmen, business leaders-smoke and endors·e \Tuxedo i:s a strong card with me. I adl:Jise all athletes to stick to Tuxedo. It is the one tobacco that will help them, keep them In trim, prevent them from going ~stale.\ Tuxedo lead3- bar ,. none. The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe o:nJ Cigarette Tuxedo grew rapidly in public favor, and without advertising reached the stupendous total of fifty or sixty million packages a year. Not until the past fe,v months couldr.-fux- edo keep up with the demand. Now increased facilities permit every tnan to smoke this best of tobaccos. Tuxedo is fine, ripened Burley tobacco of the highest grade-· aged until thoroughly mild and mellow. Then treated by the famous ''Tux- edo Process,'' that removes the last trace of \bite\ and develops all the· delicious Burley fragrance and flavor. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient Poueh, 5 inner-lined with moiature.proof paper C Famous green tin, 1 o with gold lettering, · C curved to fit pocket In Glaas Humidors 11 SOc tJnd 9Qc FREE. Send us 2 cents in stamp.s for post· age and we will mail you a souvenir tin of TUXEDO to b aC!co to any point in the United States. Address THE AM.ERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY Room 1209 111 Fifth Avenue New York GASTON STROBINO HTuxedo is the tobacco for the athlete. It neoer hurts my wind, and alwa))3 steadies m.Y nel'l7es. T uxulo for me.·· joJiliit, J~ MATT McGRATH \No atMete need fear to 3mok:e a:s much as he wants, i/ he uses Tuxedo. It's a general help to any man. A pipeful of Tuxedo puts new life into me. '' ~ht~ ------------------------------------------------------~ lZlO

I I . i i THE CONCORDIENS.JS ,~. ------~--~~~------------~--------------------~-----------, ., I I I I I I I I Home-made Candies and C. & P. Salted Nuts Sand wkhes unsurpassed The Sign of the Golden Robin TBA ROOM1 SPECIALISTS 31 Steuben Street, 109 No. Pearl Street Clark & McDonald j CLARK& l ~CHENECTADY N.Y. The 70 Year Old Jewelry and: Optical House I I . I i j 233 State Street Schenectady t i 1 F. W. Mullin J. F'. Leon•rd i A. R. Mullin ~ P~OPRIETORS r t ~ ; ' l ! ~nntt & <tTnmpnuy .· ESTABLISHED 1840 ENGRAVERS, PRINTERS AND STATIONERS . . . . . Diplomas, Wedding Invitations, Heraldic Devices, Writing Paper 52 NORTH PEARL STREET Albany, N.Y. Outdoor days are doubly pleasant when you KODAK Everybody can make good pictures the KODAK way. Kodaks $6 to $65 Meyrowitz Bros. ~8 No. Pearl St., Albany, N. Y. THE UNION TRUST COMPANY, of Albany GRANGB SARD, • • President T. L Van ANTWERP, Vice·President MAC NAUGHTON MILLER, Sec'y .-Treaa. A RTHOR L. ANDREWS, - General Counsel Main office, 4 7 State Sl Park Branch, 200 Washington SAY YOU SAW rr IN THE \oCONCORDY \ - i.

THE CONCOllDIENSlS We Solicit Your Patronage You Need Our Guarantee Cluett & Sons STEINWAY WEBER AND Visit Our Victor Parlor ONE PRICE PIANO HOUSE PIANOLA PIANOS !508 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. N. Y ·· Are You Progressing?· \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It\ Are you in need of sh;oe repairing? • • If so, don't forget us, as we don't forget you. CaU at our shop, 438 State Street, opposite Jay St., and let us exercise our brotherly love. We will be at the same location until our Barrett Street Headquarters are rebtiilt, as they have been destroyed by fire. Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires ttl Ball's Quick Shoe Repairing Works. Alling Rubber Co. 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street. Free Order Service Telephone 3456. 229 State Street 26 Stores I H 0 L T z iM: A N ' s LATEST STYLES---MEN'S ESTABLISHED 1871 We have Clothed the Son11 of \OLD UNION\ for the past 42 years-and are Clothing the Alumni to-day. ADLER-ROCHESTER SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES and MARK CROSS GLOVES fj) French, Shriner & Umer Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathera HOLTZMAN'S LINDSAY BROS. CO. Schenectady's Largest Clothiers COR. STATE AND WALL STS. P.ATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

',, ,. THE CON·CORDIENSlS Schenectady Welding and Repair Shop Motorcycle and Automobile Supplies 524 Union St., corner Barret Agency for Pope and Eagle Motorcycles Get Tomorrow's Style To-day in a Regal Shoe The styles in Regal Shoes to-day are those you will see to-morrow in other Shoes. M. STARKMAN Authorized Agent 451 State St. Schenectady PRINTING THAT IS RIGHT, REASO·NABLE AND ON TIME ~r4rnrrtaily Art Jtrrsn J. H, COMO, Prop. 206 So. Centre St., Near State Phone 18Z3·J TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. \THE BEST BY TEST\ The Gasner Laundry 448 STATE STREET, Telephone Schenectady ROSES ORCHIDS AND VIOI.JETS . ' 11 NO. PEARL STREET ALBANY, N. Y. Both Telephones 208 The Newland- Von Ritter Company PRINTERS & BINDERS Of high-class Publications, Catalogues, Booklets and Fraternity and Society Printing, Law, Library, Magazine and all kinds of Book Binding, Loose Leaf Ledgers and Devices and Special Ruling. The only Job Printing Plant in the city with a complete bindery equipment 149 Clinton Street, 'Phone 2896-J FRANK BROS. Dealers in FINE FOOTWEAR 224 FIFTH A VENUE New York City GERBER- ''45 Seconds From The Blue Gate\-GERBER Suits cleaned, pressed and altered. Bring it here and it will be done right. Work called for and delivered. 146 NOTT TERRACE TELEPHONE 4258-W SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE u CONCORDY '' ROI 'I' ,I th

' I THE: CONCORDIENSIS N:. M. READ PUBL'IC STENOGRAPHER M ]I >. iG t 1 Room 14 hrker BuDding. SpeJ:ial Rates to students • ~·tnt · · • tUullmt ·~11. t Telephone 620· W Makers of Caps, Go~ns and Hoods AI. J. ID~rnrlt ·DE:LICATESSEN '\Joe\ caters to the student. Break- fast between cla:sses. A feed at night One mlnote from Payne Gate Back: of St. John' a Church To the American lleges and U niversitie• from , 'p 298 W the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty . · 'HONE · • 722 EASTERN AVE. Vacuum Cleaners •• Magic Electric Regina Electric Regina Hand Clark Witbeck Co. The Big Hardware Store FELLOWS: We are going to show you the swellest. line of Straw and Panarna I-Iats you have. ever seen. Panamas $5.00 up. · Straws $1.50, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00 & 4.00 See window display when weather is right. NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Higgins' ( Drawin• lnka I Eternal Writint Ink • En~rossinat Ink I Taurine Mucilaato i Photo Mounter Paate j Drawint Board Paate l ~:;.::~luea, ete. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' 1 NKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS.. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branch~s, Chicago and London · 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. Vistbnf . ,. Cards. Jd.~t ~tahonery 'BusnHt CaTds·Leher Heads Class Pi.ns -Mc·nO(,.l'm.s, .. Cr~st-s , Coat~ :.j.f\r~a · ett. J)I!SIGN tf:\8 ·>i J:. NGf\:A'w'C:~:II PI'{INT'E;f\~ £f'1BO'NSI!It8 PA'rRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZEJRS

,I ' ,, TflE C·ONCORDIENSIS Boys, now's the time to ,,, Go Fishing,\ how about Tackle? Remember a G.ood Outfit insures you ag,ainst the petty anoyances and means Good Luck. We have a Splendid Line to show you-Gall in Bristol :Steel Rods Split Bamboo Rods Devine Rods Fish Baskets Bait Pails Landing Nets Gaff Hooks Trout Flys and Bait Everything for the Fisherman ALB.ANY HARDWARE & IRON CO. 39 and 43 State Street ELECTRIC QUICK SHOE REPAIR SHOP S. SOBELL, Manager I am your nearest shoemaker. Work called for & delivered PHONE 1270-W 603 LIBERTY STREET THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dollars which will stay ey him until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 D. B. PAIGE, Sigma Phi House Collel,!e Representative I am prepared to supply your wants for the coming social func- tions. There~s Shirts, Ties, Collars, Gloves, Scarfs, Studs, Silk and Opera Hats. ''Tango Shirts\ $2.00 and $3.00. Joe Nusbau.m, .136 ~.~'tate St. Gazette Building NEAR BARNEY'S .....•..••.. ······~ no aNeW ARROW ~,hCOL'LAR Cluett, Peabody & Co •• lne. Maker• SAY 'YOU SAW IT IN THE \CONCORDY\ vo Ul' l Sat to ba~ ou1 eve ne1 ab< lar sar \va 1n by pit ov thl wl -vvr ad • er W< re· be se

The Concordiensis VOL. 37 MAY 28, 1914 NO. 26 UNION'S FAILURE TO BUNCH HITS LOSES GAME Union outhit \Vesleyan on the campus Saturday afternoon, getting tvvelve bingles to \\r esleyan 's nine. Union stole seven bases tD \V esleyan's one. l:-lutnn1er struck out ten .men to vV inchester's six. Union even out-errored \V esloyan, three to two. The :final score was vVes leyan 5, C nion, 2. 1'hat 's all that need be said. Eight Gar- net players were left desultorily scattered about an1ong the va:rious bases during the game, -while \Vesleyan had four vvanclering lan1bs unable to get inside the fold in the san1e length of tin1e. Any dopester could tell how the gatne \vas lost, though \Vesleyan bunched its hits in the fourth and fifth innings, and, aided by a couple of flivvers, and a little nice placing of their hits, brought five large runs over the plate. Union hit consistently throughout the gan1e but couldn't connect when .hits 1neant runs. \i\r esleyan ''hit 'en1 vvhere they ain't,\ as \N illie Keeler once advised a budding swatsn1ith, and also hit 'em when hits 111 eant runs. H un1mer's play1ng throughout the gatne was, as usual, a pleasing feature. I-Ie scored one of Union's two runs hitnself, and retirecl seven Wesleyan players to the bench on strikes. I-I e was, to be sure. rather severe upon one Mr. Markthaler, whom he hit twice in the san1e place-right on the left shoulder blade-as .lVlr. l.Viarktl1aler tried to dodge two high outs. Jake Beaver's accurate, swift throwing to second to catch base-stealers was a feature of the gan1e. After he had sent back quite a nun1ber of Red and Black players, they stopped trying to get do,;vn to second ex- cept by legitin1ate tneans. \Teedy\ \Voods stopped a couple of vicious daisy-croppers poked in the direction of third and -vv-a fted then1 over to Erny Houghton as on the vYi ngs of a dove-· a first-class high-JK)wer, lin1ited dove. Joke Beaver, Capt. N aun1ann, \T'eedy .'' and Dave Beaver, favored the audience \Vith tvvo hits apiece. one of Dutch Naun1ann's being good for two bases. It eased through second base like the Albany Li n1ited passing Stop 25. V\ 7 esleyan's first runs were scored in the fourth, \Vhen, with one down, Zimtner philandered with Stanley's offering long enough to allow Stanley to get to first. Lanning- catne across \vith a clean hit to left, hut Jake Beaver held Stanley on second. Mr. l\farkthaler succun1beci to ~Iun11ner's wiles and poked an easy roller to the box which I-Iutnn1er transferred on t() first ahead of hin1. Then Been1an (the yo,ttngest brother) busted the ball over by Spike's house for three bases, and Stanley and Lan- ning tangoed across the rttbber. Haywood

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS straightened an in out to right scoring B·ee ... rr1an (the youngest brother}. I-I umtner fan- ned Chapin. In the next inning a fielder's choice and two hits gave vVesleyan two n1ore tallies. After that Hun1n1er kept the hits well scat- tered. · Union's first run catne in the first inning. Friday got to first on a wild thrown. W. VV. Friday (the satne guy) then stole second and third. Then \Dutch'' Naun1ann wafted a hit through second and Friday scored. With two dovvn in the seventh, H un11ner laced a bounder over second, and stole second. Jake Beavet obliged with a hit that brought Jean horne. That was all Union's scortng. The score: WESLEYAN a b. r. h. po. a. E. W in' r, 2b . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 0 1 4 1 Goodwin, cf. ............ 4 1 2 0 0 Stanley, rf. ............ 4 2 1 0 0 Lanning, lf. ........... 4 1 3 1 0 l\1arkthaler, lb. . ....... 2 0 0 7 0 Beeman, 3b. ........... 4 1 1 2 2 Hayward, ss. ... ,, ...... 4 0 1 4 3 Chapin, c. ............. 3 0 0 8 3 H. Winchester, p ........ 3 0 0 1 4 E. \Vinchester, 2b ....... 4 0 1 4 1 Totals ............. 32 5 9 27 13 LTNION a b. r. h. po. a. J. Beaver, If ............ 5 Friday, rf. ............. 3 N aun1ann, ss. . ......... 4 0 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 2 2 0 Houghton, 1 b. . ........ 4 \Voods, 3b ............. 4 0 1 5 1 0 2 1 2 Barclay, c.f. ............ 0 ~Ros 'ng, cf. .. ........... 2 D. Beaver, c ............ 4 Zim1ner, 2b. . .......... 4 1--I ummer, p ............. 4 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 13 3 0 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 Score by innings : \f\1 esleyan . . . ........ 0 0 0 3 2 0 0 0 0-. 5 Union .............. 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0-2 Errors-Zimmer, 3; Markthaler, 2. Two- base hit-· Naumann. Three-base hit-Bee- man. Struck out-By Hummer, 10; by \N inch ester, 6. Bases on balls-Off Hum- mer, 2; off Winchester, 1. Hit by pitcher- Markthaler, 2. Left on bases-Union, 8; Wesleyan, 4. Dottble plays-Hayward to Winchester to Markthaler. Umpire-Glenn. DR. FINLEY SPEAKS TO PHI BET A KAPPA The Schenectady rneeting of the Upper l{ udson 1\ssociation of Phi Beta !Zappa was held at the Sigtna Phi place, Union College, on Friday evening, l\1ay 22. Thirty-five me1n bers and guests -vvere present. The guest of honor, Dr. John Fiouston Finley, con1issioner of education of the State of New York made the address on, ''The Televictor- ian Age or the Conquest of the Far.\ Governor Glynn and President Richmond discussed Dr. Finley's paper. After\¥ard, light refreshn1ents were served. The Hon. \7\T tn. P. Rudd, Union, '73. vice-president of the association called the 111eeting to order and introduced the speaker who is the presi- dent of the association. NOTICE Totals .............. 34 2 12 27 10 The Con1n1encement nutnber of the Con- cordiensis will be issued on June 12. This number should prove to be one of extren1e interest to every student and especially to the seniors as it vvill be somewhat in the fonn of a senior year book and will contain ac- counts of all the Commencement affairs. The insert will be a handso1ne picture of the class of 1914, or a picture of the handsome class of 1914, which ever way you like it best. All those ·desiring extra copies of this will please notify the manager or as- sistant tnanager at once. ., .\' 1

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 Dear Clat,. i\fter the scufh·agists win out, do you think: every one w111 be able to say Pusher's Gusher? Prohibition. Prohibition, My Love, It may be that tong but we hope not! Clat. Look out for that Clatter 'Column in the Comtnenoen1ent nHtnber. It'll be hot! Dear Clat-In view of the fact that neither the curriculum nor Johnny, A. C., includes a course ,in advice to the lovelorn, will you please include an information bu- reau in your august columns, whence heart balm is handed out to those who have in the spring lightly turned their fancies to thoughts of love, and also to those who take co-educa donal strolls incessantly? If you will advise rne in this mighty mat- ter I'll \\vrite again next week. Yours in tnuch pain, Willie Heartache, alias \Bru.\ Dear \Bru\-Concerning your inquiry, the Cornell Widow ad vises thusly: \To ten whether the object of your affec- tion loves you, ta1te a coat sweater or a vest and cut off the buttons one by one, saying, 'She loves me, she loves me not, she loves tne, etc.' ''Then ask her to sew them on for you, and if she does it, you had better not propose until you know ber to be a good cook.\ If I can serve you further, let me know. Clat. Dear Clat, What does it n1ean when a young lady presents you with a miniature drum about 12 A. X.? George. Dear George, It n1eans \stick around girls and we'll make molasses candy.\ Clat. It looks like we'll have to quit kidding our cheer leaders because they're really getting good, and besides one of 'en1 has been kid- ded by professionals already. Keep it up boys you're doing fine. Bence Page says, if we don't quit printing nice little things about him, that he'll break our utnbrella and wish it would rain. Don't do it on Saturday, Bence, it may stop the gan1e. CLASSICAL CLUB· ELECTIONS. The Classical Club met Tuesday, 1\{ay 19, and elected the following officers for next year: Donald A. Coulter, '15, president; Richard E. Taylor, '16, vice-president; and Jacob V\T. Ganger, secretary and treasurer. The club has been very active and has had a good year under the able administration of its out-going officers. Under their newly- elected successors its next year should be equally successful. Saturday evening, May 23, on invitation from the S. I-I. S. Chapter of the Agora, the club enjoyed the excellent progran1me given in the High School Auditoriun1 by that or- ganization. The evening·s entertaitnnent began with a violin solo by an artist who later treated the audience to an equally artistic rendering of part of Plato's Apology-a reading in trans- lation fol1owed by a recitation of the same in Greek. After a reading in translation of the first 290 lines of the Iliad, the stage of the audi- toriun1 became .in imagination, the Greek

I ' I 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS ca1np on the seashore. In the dran1atization .. in the original Greek, of the reading which follovved no imagination was required to pass with our high school friends through the stormy episodes with which the Iliad begins. The characters were finely cos- tumed and gave their parts in excellent manner almost as if Greek were their native tongue. The vv hole entertainment was highly successful. and thoroughly enjoyed by all. Prof. Bennett next took the stage and in his characteristically entertaining n1anner addressed the audience briefly while award-· ing the prizes for the co1npetitive exan1ina- tions of the Agora Society. We take pleas- ure in noting that two of these three prizes go to our friends in the S. H. S. Chapter. 'fhe progran1 was pleasantly concluded by a short talk by President Richmond. His subject was, \Ren1arks a broad subject but in treatn1ent limited to the value of Greek. HONOR COURT ELECTION May 22 vvas the last day on which it would be possible to get the senior meln- bers of the Honor Court around without a great amount of difficulty; so the election for next year was held at that tin1e. There is only one positon filled by the 1913-14 representatives.-that of president. Donald A. Coulter, ~15, has ben acting as secretary- treasurer of the court this year, and was elected to the office of president for the season of 1914-15. MR. TAFT SPEAKS TO ALBANY LAW SCHOOL The city of Albany, the Albany Law School, ancl Union University were most highly honored last Thursday by the visit of ex-president W il1ian1 Howard Taft to de- liver a lecture on \Legal Ethics.\ The former president now holds a professorship in the law departtnent of Yale University. 1 fhe lecture was one of a series in the Hub- bard course in legal ethics in the Albany Law School. ''Regard your character and your reputa- tion and your own conscience as of higher in1portance than winning a case,\ cautioned l\1r. Taft. \If you have done your best in a case, you can school yourself to defeat, and you can pluck out of defeat valuable lessons for future action; but if you have won by a trick, you will have dulled your nice sense of professional fairness and you w.ill never gain that high standing at the bar which you ought to value as its n1ost precious prize.\ lVIr. Taft deplored the present tendency of members of the bar toward comrnercialism which has greatly increased during the past twenty-five years, and urged the students to scorn accepting fees for lob- bying. The former president received a most cordial welcon1e fron1 the Albanians. He ar- rived at four o'clock, and took dinner with Governor Glynn and a score of pro1ninent guests. I-Ie was met at the station by Gen- eral Atnasa J. Parker, president of the AI- - \ bany Law School; lVIayor lVIc Ewen, and Governor Glynn's military secretary. At the State Eel ucational building where the lec- ture was delivered, a reception was held for l\1 r. Taft, Governor Glynn, Con1tnissioner ' of Education Finley, President Richtnond, other officials of Union College and the Albany Law School being- present. A large and appreciative audience had gathered to hear the address. President Parker introduced General Thomas H. Hub- barcL of the class of 1861, vvho founded the course, and 1VIr. Hubbard, in turn, in- troduced 1\ir. Taft. Governor Glynn spoke a few words, referring to Mr. Taft as the \n1ost disting-uished private citizen in the world.\ Mr. Taft's address n1acle a profound im- pression on all who heard it, particularly on aU the law students who had assembled there. 'the legal profession was pictured by r \ c t ... c: l

THE CON;OQRDIENSlS hin1 in a very favorable Hght. Abuses might creep in, but law is withal, a noble vocation. Success in it, as in any other field of endeavor, said Mr. Taft, is not to be at- tained without hard work, physical as well as mental. We are deeply indebted to Mr. Taft £or his kindness in delivering the lecture as well as for his most excellent discourse, and we are indebted to General H 11 b bard for n1aking such a visit possible. vVe are often given opportunity to hear distinguished men make addresses, but seldorn enJOY so rare an opportunity as this. TRACK TEAM LOSES· TO HAMIL TON AFTER PLUCKY FIGHT Han1ilton went back hon1e Saturday eve- ning with a Garnet scalp hanging at her belt-but she had to fight like the-dickens -to get it. The Blue tean1 had just a little harder punch than Doc 1\fac's 1nen-and so they 'WOn. They knew they had been in a scrap, you can bet your last dollar on that. There were a number of 1nighty strong finishes-for both sides-none of the races were over until the end. Captain \]imn1ie'' was our star, vvhile Lee, of the luminous top-piece, shone for Hamil- ton. Up to the last motnent the n1eet was a toss-up-and was not decided until the aforement~oned Lee ca1ne across with .~ sprint in the 220 that vvas a little bit too much for }in1mie. This Saturday the team goes up to Col- gate for the State Intercollegiates, and the Garnet vvon't trail in the dust-put up another dollar on that. Score: Hamilton, 60; Union, 57. 100-yd. dash.-Lee, H.; Potter, H.; Mallen, U. Tin1e, 10 2-S sec. Mile run.-Brokway, H.; I-!offman, U.; Nichols. H. Tin1e, 4 tni n. 47 4-5 sec. 120-yd. high hurdles-Baker, U.; I-Iigbie, I-I.: Mallen, L:. Tin1e, 16 2-3 sec. 440-yd. dash-Lee, H.; Dent, U.; Potter, H. Time, 54 sec. Two-n1ile run.-Boyce, H.; Scoby, U.; Hoffman, U. 'Tin1e, 10 n1in. 40 sec. 220-yd. lo\iV hurdles.-· Butler, U.; Baker, U.; Higbie, H. Tilne, 29 sec. llalf-n1ile run.-· Squires, H.; Elk, H.; Moore, U. Time, 2 1nin. 9 1-S sec. 220--ycl. dash.-Lee, H.; Baker, U.; Potter, H. Titne, 24 sec. 16-pound shot.-Stoller, cT.; Jessup, H.; Hagar, U. Distance,. 36 1-2 ft. Pole vault.-Shepard, H.; Baker, Butler, U, tied for second. Height, 11 ft. I-Iigh jutnp.-· Peterson, Baker, Butler, Miller, LT, tied for first. Height, 5 ft. 2 in. Han1mer throw.-Jessup, I-L; \i\T oolnaugh, H.; Stoller, lT. Distance? 126 ft. 10 in. Broad jutnp.-Baker, U.; Mallen, U.; Lee, H. Distance, 22 ft. 11-2 in. The freshn1an class at Brown appropriated $125 for the support of their class baseball teatn. SENIOR BALL PREPARATIONS NEARING COMPLETION Plans to make the Alumni and Senior reception and ball this year one of the larg- est and n1ost successful social functions ever held on the hill are being rapidly carried out. The ball ·will be held in the gymnasium on June 10. The cotnmittee in charge of the arrangernents has secured a New York orchestra. 'rhe \gyn1\ will be beautifully decorated and no effort will be spared to have the best possible. Following is a list of patronesses for the event : lVf rs. Charles Alexander Richmond, Mrs. E. E. Hale, Mrs. Ed-vvard Ellery, as representatives of the faculty~ l\1rs. Charles M. Mcl\1urray. and Mrs. Frank Bailey, for the trustees ; 1VI rs. \tVilliam P. Rndd and Mrs. Sanntel P. lVIcClellan, for the Graduate Council: 1\1rs. John Keyes Paige and Mrs. Willis T. 1-Tanson, Jr., as representatives of local frienrls of the college.

'' i' '' If I: \; IJ I• I·. I '' 'I : l I I' ,'~I ·I• Tfi! CONCORDIENSIS T.HE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published: by THE STUDENT'S OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., . as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. J. Delckamps, 'IS, Chi Psi Lodge ASSISTANT EDITOR-I:N-CHIEF Donald A. C()ulter, 'rs, 3 Regent Street ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, 'IS, Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDIT·OR Edward R. Hughes, 'IS, 25 Glenwood Boulevard ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, r6 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, 'r6 A. M. Jacobs, '16 L. R. Van Wert, '16 REPORTERS ]. C. Buchanan, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 W. 11. Gilbert,. '17 H. R. Knight, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 M. W. Atwood, '17 Morris P. Schaffer, '14, Business Manager, 924 Delamont Ave. Karl E. Agan, '15, Ass't. Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Publication Office : ScHENEC':r.ADY ART PRESS 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. MAKE COMMENCEMENT A SUCCESS For n1onths past the Con1n1encetnent cotn- mittee has been vvorking untiringly on a set of plans which they have carefully devised · and through which they hope to make the Commencetnent of 1914 a grand success from start to fin ish. In their plans we can find not a fault, not a gap, not a flaw of any description and now the final test is about to con1e-the execution of these well laid plans. Upon whont does this depend? Some seem to think that a successful Commence- n1ent depends upon three n1en; namely, the chainnan of the committee, the manager of the alun1ni luncheon· and the senior class tnarshal. Those who are of this opinion should think it over again. Is it possible for these three tnen to 1nake a success of such a big thing without the undivided sup- port and co-operation of the undergradu~ ates? Most emphatically no! It is a prop- osition for the students themselves. It is the duty of each and every man to be on hand for all of the events ready and willing to step in and take a hand in any of the work that will be going on. A great many students see no reason why they should stay around after their examin- ations are over un1ess, perhaps, they may hope to gain a huge atnount of pleasure from the festivities and likewise, if the Comn1encement activities do not exactly strike their fancies quite as well as some other events elsewhere, these rnen will lea.. ve the Con1111encen1ent affairs of their own college to take care of themselves and will go elsewhere to find a good titne suited for the winding up of a strenuous year. It would probably be of little avail for us to tell these n1en that their tastes are lack- ing, even though we are sure of it. It vvould probably do sn1all good for us to tell them that at Comencement any man may find better and cleaner amusement right here on the hill than can be found anywhere else, even though we know it to be a fact in- disputable. But the appeal which we wish to make, beyond all others, is the appeal of duty, of loyalty. What satisfaction can the reunion classes see in coming back to their Altna J\1ater only to find a handful of stu- dents on the grounds to bid then1 a half- hearted welcome back to the grey old walls? They con1e back, let us retnember, not only 11 ( e g t r r t 1 1 1

THE CONCORDIENSIIS 17 to see the garden and the old college build- ings., the grounds :lately itnproved by Gymnasium Alumnoru1n and other proud edifices all surrounded by the beauty and glory of springtime foliage. These things they love; these things are dear to their hearts, but what are these without a loyal group Gf undergraduates standing ready to make each and every alumnus feel at home, to bid ~each one welcome through deeds as well as words? It is our opinion that every man should be right here for Comtnence- ment ready to turn a hand to anything which will tend toward the success of the plans. Sun1ming up, Con1mencement affords un- excelled pleasure for all Union men; the undergraduates who stay for the festivities and lend a hand toward the execution of the plans may derive great benefits and enjoyrnents frotn so doing and last of all, but by no means least of all, it is the duty of every undergraduate to lend his undivided support to the Co1ntnencen1ent con1mittee in order that its hopes for a successful Con1- mencetnent may be fully realized. For these three decidedly good reasons, we urge every man to stay for Comtnencement and be on the job. WHAT SUPPORT MEANS. We hear the cry from far and near that every n1an should sdpport every teatn with all that he has. What does this mean? One thing that it n1eans is good cheering and enc:ouragen1ent, on the part of the onlookers, which tends to put vim into the men who are :fighting on the field, but is this all? Is it even a substantiated amount as compared with other things which we can do for our athletes? Every man who knows anything about college athletics knows that the advantages which may be gained through strict training rules are enormou~, provided these rules are kept inviolate by the individuals of each team. In some c.oUeges a sentiment exists to a strong degree against the breaking of training rules and as a result these college::, are en a bled to turn out highly efficient teams -teams that last to the final second of play. Here at Union, we are sorry to say, this sentiment is not strong and, as a result, those athletes who feel a desire to break training are not restrained from so doing through the influence of their non-athletic fellow students. Some non-athletic men even induce members of teams to enter scraps or do other things which tend greatly to reduce them physically, thus weakening our tearns which should be sup- ported in every way. There is never a man on a Union College team who refuses to do his best after he enters a game. When he is put into harness he works with all his might and with every spark of detennination that he can sum- mons up in his brain, but is this all that is necessary? Before he entered the game; how about that? Has he been tnaking him- self physically fit to stand the utlnost test or vvas he at a dance the night before, smok- ing during the past week or in a class scrap in the nearby past? Suppose he has been doing these things, ·whose fault is it? We refuse to say that it is, for the n1ost part. his. We believe that these things are up to the students vvho have, through bad ex- an1 ple and lack of restraining influence, en-

18 THE CON·CORDIENSIS couraged him in doing those things which would naturally weaken him by detracting from his powers of endurance. If we intend to compete successfully with those colleges whose names now appear on our 1914 football schedule, greater interest and keen support must be shown by the students in general on this matter. Let us begin now to help our athletes to train. Let us continue to help them train. Our nutn- bers are not great; let us overcotne this diffi- culty by increasing our efficiency. Support n1eans co-operation, encouragetnent and loyalty. CHEMICAL SOCIETY INITIATION. The first initiation of the Chemical Society was held in the Chern. Lab. on Nion- day night. Randles, '15; En1 bree, '16; Lowell, '16; Stoller, '16; and Van Wert, '16 being the initiates. A.fter the initiation the regular business meting was held and Mudge, '14, read a very interesting paper on \Mica Products.'' The club will n1eet again on Vvednesday,night June 3, at which titne Mr. Salathe will deliver a paper on, \Steel and Its Uses.\ THE ADELPHICS DINE The Adelphic Jjterary Society held its anual banquet at the Vendotne Hotel on Saturday night, l\tT ay 23. ]an1es Fitzgerald, '15, had the affair in charge: and to say the least, his n1anagement -vvas very satisfac- tory. The eats were good, the location vvas good, and the spirit was good. The whole debating season was considered in review, and its successes and defeats discussed. Plans were perfected for better club work next year and better 'varsity work as well. It was pointed out that Ade1phic prospects are bright for both lines of activity. Par- ticularly illt1n1inating were the remarks of the guests of honor, Professor Mcl(ean and Charlie 1\lale. Every n1an felt well repaid in attending because of the remarks of these gentle1nen. Y. M. C. A. ACTIVITIES. It is with great pleasure that the Associa- tion is able to announce for the speaker at the Cotnmencement Vespers, June 7. Rev .. Edward T. Carroll, '79, of Atnsterdam, N. Y. Mr. Carroll holds a very in1portant pastorate in Amsterdan1 and the Association is very fortunate in securing hin1 as the speaker. The Vespers on last Sunday May 24, were given over to a general discussion of the Northfield Student Conference to be held at East Northfield, lVIass., from J nne 19 to 28. This is the annual student conference for the n1en of the colleges of V ern1ont, Maine, New Han1pshire, ~lassachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island New York, Ontario, Quebec, and the l\1Iaritin1e Provinces. The Vespers were addressed by different fellows on the I-Iill. The fellows at the service who had been there ·were: Orr, '16; Shepard, Male, '13; and Brandao, '17. These fellows gave an idea of the different ways in which the tin1 e is taken up. Brandao, '17, was at the Foreign Student Conference vv-hich was held there at the san1e tin1e. 1~he two conferences are held to a great extent together; Professor Salathe, Hagar, '14, and Brandow, '17, who are going this year for the first time gave their reasons for attending. The ain1 of the conference can be better understood by the following extract from one of the Northfield Conference patuphlets: \All the probletns of our life should be faced in our best tnoments. Strain and stress in the frequently unnatural conditions of our n1oclern life do not make for clear thought and for clear decision. The neces- sity for thought and decision on the part of every college 1nan is very plain. \The nations haYe invested n1illions in . i tb cl St sa m sl- rE tr oj le fc: d p q ·C 1':: t ( J

. i THE CON·CORDIENISlS 19 their higher education; and if the student class grows up into a selfish caste, the whole sum, representing not money alone but keen sacrifice, must be reckoned as a lost invest- ment. \The ten days at a student conference should put a man at his best. 'rhe life is regular and natural. There is recreation and the best of fellowship. There is leadership of the finest quality with regard to the prob- le·ms of the student in his relation to God and to the world. ''The prograrn proposes to open up in the fairest way the moral problen1s of the stu- dent,. the intellectual basis and practical ap- plication of Christianity, and the pressing question of the choice of a life-work. \Of course, a leading feature of these con- ferences has always been the opportunity to 1neet 1nen of other colleges. There are few intercollegiate gatherings of any kind that can co1npare with these in range and significance. And as a part of a single con- ference, each delegate now joins with a great body of students, n1eeting in sin1ilar conferences on the globe. We share in a great international moven1ent that touches the life of thirty nations.\ From the above, one n1ay obtain an idea of the value of this conference to himself. Many of the best speakers of the Christian era are present at this conference. The fol- lowing speakers atnong others are expected to address the conference: J. Can1pbell White, John R. Nott, T. Richard Glover, of Cambridge, England, Robert E. Speer, Charles D. Hurrey, Henry Sloane Coffin, and E. 'r. Colton. These na1nes are fa1niliar to the majority of the fellows and they speak for the conference. The morning is taken up by Bible study, vocational discussion and the like, while the afternoon is given over to recreation. The evening is occupied by Life-Work addresses on Round Top and by occasional can1p-fire n1eetings. The question of expense has troubled many fellows, but according to Charlie Male's account the actual expenses to, at and from Northfield are not n1uch over eighteen doUars. The cost of board, car- fare, and tent is included in this amount. At the present ti1ne the number from Union is sure to reach the twenty iJ.nark and one of the biggest delegations in the history of the College is looked forward to. A fellow who is looking for ten days of pleasure, recreation, rest and interest will find such at Northfield. The edifors of thirty college newspapers in Ohio, together with the managers of the publications, held a conference at Oberlin this n~onth for the discussion of n1ethocls of bettering undergraduate papers. TENNlS TEAM DEFEATED FOR FIRST TIME 'rhe te1n1is team suffered its first defeat this season in the 1natch vvith Wilian1s on the catnpus Saturday. The match was plainly the best that has been played this year and the n1atches were· tnore closely contested than the scores show. Wadsworth and Girli11g played well in the doubles, Cntler of \Villian1s, the semi-finalist in the New Eng-land Intercollegiate, played the best tennis seen on the can1pus this season. tfhe score of the tnatch was 6-0. Singles. Willia1ns Union Cutler ......... \Vadsvvorth Van Burnsten. Soler ......... . \Volcott ....... Girling ........ 4-6, Cook ......... Howell ....... . Doubles. Williams Union Cutler ......... \iVaclsworth Cook ......... Hovvell ....... . Van Burnsten. Soler ......... . \;Volcott ....... }{ O\vell ....... . 6-9, 6-4 6-2, 6-1 6-4, 0-6 6-2, 7-5 6-4, 7-5 6-3. 6-3

20 THE CONCORDiENSIS CRITICS PROCLAIM ~'MIKE'·' EWENS DRAMATIST· AND PLAYER Entire Cast of \Pushers' Gusher\ Good. ''On de level-it's strictly secret service/' quoth John O'Connel, alias \Mike\ Ewens, Tuesday night at the Majestic Theatre. But there were a few people in on the secret, and they certainly enjoyed it. For the ben- efit of those who were so unfortunate as not to attend the production of the Dra- matic Club, we .may say that \Pushers' Gusher\ was a huge success. The clever burlesque was a great credit to Harry C. Ewens, '14, who wrote it, and was, as well, a suitable vehicle for Union's thespians, who gave it as finished and' well-balanced a per- formance as could be expected from ama- teurs-amateurs verging upon the \legit however. In order that the strenuous press-agent work of \Art\ Hawley may not remain an enigtna, we shall proceed primarily to de- fine the etynology of the mysterious ph ease which has appeared so prominently about the can1pus recently. A \Gusher\ is an oil well; while \Pushers\ is the title conferred upon then1selves by two energetic young students when, under stress of circun1- stances, they are forced to make a living. The \Pushers\ discover an oil well in Ron- mania, which they appropriate-a \Gusher\ -hence \Pushers' Gusher.\ The plot of \Pushers' Gusher'' concerns these t-vvo young men, whom fate and an apparently equivocal situation turn from their Alma ~1ater. The first act occurs in their roo1n in the college dormitories, where a fellow-student, attired a la j eune fille, for a masquerade, leaves enough traces of femi- nine finery scattered about to arouse the in- vestigation and unpleasant conclusions of a member of the faculty. Stanton Van ~\Hen's father appears to complicate mat- ters vvith a discourse upon failing exams. Itnmediate expulsion threatens \Van\ and his roomn1 ate, Barton Stone; but they fore- stall the event by selling their goods to an Ishm..aelitish furniture vender and leave tor Roum.ania in quest of rumored coal fields. The second act opens in Roumania in the garden of the Bey of Dobrudja. The two youths, pursued by Roumanian soldiery, harassed by an English$1ord of machinating persuasions, are unsuccessful in their quest for coal, while the plot is further conlpli- cated by the presence of the Bey's two charming daughters. The eradicating of the general insolvency in which the Bey is included, as well as the uniting of two loving hearts in one bond when \Van\ wins the Bey's young daugh ter, Maroosh, and a reconciliation between parents and sons-all these issues are ac- complished in the third and last act. The curtain goes down upon general peace and prosperity, as well as prospects for a flourishing oil well in the Bey's .estates. The exciting plot was interlarded with clever lines and situations. The diologue wa:s singularly true and up-to-date, while the action seldom dragged. The atmos- phere,. first of college, later of Rournania, was realistic. The costuming and scenery were easily accepted, even if they might not bear critical examination. At least, the Bey's daughters and the various Rouma- nians were strikingly and handsotTlely garbed, while Sir William Lucian Lotto vvas a model, a sinecure, a fashion-plate, for Beau Brum1nels. \In the spring; the yottng man's fancy.\ This statement is true, but no more so than, \On the stage the young Englishman's fancy.'' 'The acting was excellent. Santee, as the Bey's young daughter, Samarita, was as in- gratiating, as gentle, as realistic an Oriental gazel as the heart of mortal-or Sultan- cotlld desire. Maroosh, portrayed by Walter Baker, was not half so unhandsome as Bar- ton Stone seen1ed to think. Baker p 1ayed. a rat 11er thankless part well. The Stanton Van Allen of C. Albion Ken- worthy vvas extretnely natural, and even though that versatile burlesque artist had .a l wa as lik pa Be hiE .w~ hiJ hv G( ti<: 1-I la St: w E le , ec s p J F I J ~ J c ~

\. ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 .a reputation to maintain, his performance was estimated very clever. Barton Stone, as pictured by P. C. Clevelan~, was life- like and happily conceived. Perhaps the greatest hit among the minor parts vvas scored by Jose C. de Souza, as the Bey's aid'e. Every gesture, and especially his violent outbursts of ·enraged \rialect, . were highly appreciated by the audience. \l'vi ike\ Ewens, besides distinguishing himself in a curtain speech, played a very hun1orous part of a secret service rn.an well. George Wads\iVOrth's \Bey\ was plenipoten- tiary enough to get rounds of applause. 1-Iorace Zimtner, first as a Hebrew pedlar, later as \the arn1y~\ achieved two notable successes. \Fluff\ Hanson's \Sir William\ was English to the limit. Meade Brunet, Ed-vvard Brandow, Frank L. Smith and Al- len l\1 attison played their parts with great eclat. The cast was as follows: Stanton Van Allen .. Charles A. Kenworthy Barton Stone ....... Prescott C. Cleveland John Mas ten ............ Harry C. Ewens Prof. Style .............. l\1eade C. Brunet Dr. Carey ............. George Wads worth Freshman ............ Edward C. Brandow ~1 r. Van J\11en ............ Frank L. Smith Jew (Old Clothes Dealer) .. Horace Zimtner Sir William Lucian Lotto ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . G. Fulford Hanson /\ Soldier (In the retinue of the Bey) .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen Mattison Ylanoosh (Oldest daughter of the Bey) .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Walter C. Baker ;\ide( to the Bey) ........ Jose C. de Souza Sa1narita ....... ~ ...... Howard B. Santee Bey of Zeitoon ........ George Wadsworth STRUNG TEAM WILL REPRESENT US IN NEW YORK INTER- COLLEGIATE Vvith the Union entries as noted below, it is hoped that \Jitnmie\ will be able to bring hon1e some laurels for himself and for Union from Saturday's tneet of the New York State Intercollegiate Athletic Union. lJ n ion's entries are: 100 yard dash-Mallen, Downs, Vianna~ Baker and Morrison. J\!Iile run-Hofftnan, Stephens and Clin ... nick. 120 yard hurdles-Mallen, Baker and Butler. 440 yard run-Dent, Downs, Morrison and Colson. Two n1ile run-Blodgett, Scoby, Majew- ski. Friday and Hoffman. 220 yard hurdles-Baker, Butler and Mal- len. 880 yard run-Mudge, Moore, Hendry and Dent. 220 yard dash-Baker, Mallen, Vianna, Morrison and Downs. Shot put-S toller, Fletcher and Hagar. Pole vault-Jamieson, Butler, Miller and Baker. High j un1p-Butler, Peterson, 1\tliller and Baker. . tlc:untner throw-Stoller. Hagar and Jan1- 1eson . RrncHl jump-JVIallen,· Tinklepaugh. But- ler and Raker. The other colleges who will send teams to the rneet are: Co1gate. Hamilton, St . I.. a wrence and Rochester. The contest is to take place on Congate's fie1d. Superinten~dent of Mines ............... . ................... Edward C. Brandow John O'Connel (Secret Service Officer feAr The 1915 Garnet is going to he a corking good one and it's g·oing- to be with us on the first o.f June or vve a11 g-uess wrong. So get ready for ser1ous thoug-ht, a big laugh. and so forth and so forth. ·· State of Dobrudja, Roun1ania) ....... . , ....................... Harry C. Ewens Soldier .................. Horace Zimmer Princeton is to have a new reinforced concrete stadium which will seat 41,000.

Announcement Extraordinary!! THE COMMENCEMENT NUMBER A Fitting Crown for a Royal Year Special Features A COLORED COVER PAGE That would do credit to any frame, by \Bill'' Darrow, '16 THE SENIOR CLASS SONGS With music plates, by Wm. A. Mudge, '14 \THE COLLEGE MAN'S DUTY\ A message for graduate and undergraduate, by Morgan L. Williams, ~ 14 THE ALLOUETTE SONG As led by Louis De La Verne, '14 SENIOR SIGNATURE LIST SENIOR ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (Complete with Commencement Honors and Prizes) Prize Essays, Commencement Speeches and Class Day Orations Published in full and in part PICTURE FEATURES Senior Class Picture {suitable for framing) Individual Pictures of the Senior \High Lights'~ COMMENCEMENT SNAPSHOTS Order extra copies immediately. Don't forget your friends. Mailed to any address for 25 cents-the price you would have to pay for the cover page. (Note: Regular subscribers will receive their subscrip- tion copy without additional charge.) Manager, TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS, Schenectady, N. Y. Sir-Kindly send the Commencement Number of the CONCORDIENSIS. to the following addresses. Enclo.sed is 25 cents for each copy: t t t t 1 t t t t t t t t t I t e t I S t t t t I .l • t t t I I I t t t I t • t t t t t t t t t t t I .. I t I ., .................................................... . .................................... , ................... . • t I f t t t t t 1 t 01 t t t I I t t t • t I t I I .. t I • I t t I t I I t • I f t t t t I t I t I I t .. t I

THE CONCORDIENSIS Q . ' · utnn s Schenectady's Greatest Drug St~ore . What kind of Candy do you like? Most of you will answer chocolates. It matters not just what special flavor has your preference-they are ALL here. Page & Shaw's Chocolates $1.00 a pound-· the Elite Candy. Liggett's Ch. ocolates 80c a pound- Liggett's perfect asbortment, each piece different-no two alike. Exclusively at Quinn's. Fenway Chocolates 60c a pound. Huyler's Chocolates-new pack- age $1.00. Each and every the best in its res- pective line. QUINN' S-the place /or Fine Chocolates Telephone Q • ' anythingto Ulflfi S Ca/11285 Steefel Bro& ALBANY Slim Trim and Timely Spring Suits Designing a Steefel Model isn't assim- ple as turning over your hand or snapping your finger. Styles aren~t tossed off like tin cans are cut out. lt takes rare skill to style a coat-particularly if it is to fit a lithe young figure-think it over, then come in. The sort of hats, shoes and furnish· ings that young men like and wear. PROCTOR'S ''THEATRE BEAUTIFUL\ VAUDEVILLE KINEMACOLOR PHOTOPLAYS Every afternoon & Evening 1 to 5 6:45 to 11 SUNDAYS: Feature Pictures Special Music 2 to 5 7 to 10:30 Headquarters for Tennis Supplies ~ Jay A. Rickard Co. 253 State St. ''Schenectady's Sporting Goods Store' ' RUBBER SOLED ENGLI.SH OXFORD The last word in comfort in a Summer Shoe for outing at- street wear-in tan or white- a.nd tltttd properly $5 THE PAIR PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST., SCHENECTADY. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIENSIS BARNEY'S Wh1r1 Rve,.,bodJ ShojJ1 Students will find that they have every- thing at ~ - BARNEY'S H. S. BARNEY CO. Shoes and Oxfords That Satisfy Correct Dancing Also the new dances Prof. Kilgallen' s Private Dancing Classes Further informution see Hand Book page 52 Yate's ·Boat House The largest and beat equipped in the atate. Excellent Dancing Hall, which c:an be tented for Pri· ate Patties only, in connection with house .. · • .. .,. • 29 Front Street Both Phone& . . Fine Furniture at Popular Pricee JOHN WAGNER CO. 260M262 State Street. the season's latest developments in refined apparel for the particu· lar man ........ . Clothing · · .. Furnishings • - · Hats Wells & Coverly TROY Dancing Waltz, Two-Step, Three-Step and Bluebell taught in one term. Modern Dancing Crossett Bench Made Ralston Health $5.00 The new Parisian Tango, Spanish Dip, Ajax $4.00 & $4.50 Hesitation Waltz and the One Step tapght $3.00 & $3.50 in three lessons. All lessons guaranteed. EMERY'S Frank M. Cain Master of Dancing 429 State St. Schenectady v. E. Whelda, Mana 1 er Arcade Hall, Near N. f. C. Depot 'PIIone 2723·J bAY YO\C\ SAW IT IN THE \ CONCORDY \

THE CONCORDIENSIS ,, Balmacaans\ 'for Rain Coats or Slip Ons $2_4 and $27. Fine selection of Foreign and Domestic Fabrics ready for your inspection J. ,J. HILLMAN 617 State Street The Gleason Book Co. . The Students' Problem Solved 104 JAY STREET, Gleason Building '·On your way to the Post Q.ffice, PICTURE FRAMING & ENGRAVING SCHENECTADY'S LEADING FLOWER SI-IOP STUDENTS' FLORlST'' JULIUS EGER Telephone 314-0 · 170 Lafayette St. 735 State Street You can .get the extra half hour sleep every morn· ing and still be on time for chapel. The solution of this problem is an ELECTRIC TOASTER and an ELEC- TRIC COFFEE PER- COLATOR. Then, simply turn the switch and your breakfast is ready by the time you are dressed. Schenectady lluminating Co. 511 State Street Telephone 2500 UNION MEN Only Best Work Done BARBOUR AND MANICURE S. G. Ritchie, 440 State St. and Waiting Room Barber Shop. ZOLLER BROS. CO., Inc. Largest dealers in Sanitary Milk in the City of Schenectady. OFFICE and PLANT, 742 STATE STREET INSPECTION ALWAYS INVITED TELEPHONE PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE ,CON·CORDIENSIS SAUER BROTHERS Printing, Binding, Makers of High Cla.ss Stationery,. Loose Leaf Devices and Index Systems. Special R.uled Blank Books Made to Order. 316 State Street-Phone 2799-W. HOTEL AND RESTAURAN.T Special R ales to Students LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETR·IST Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y. 426 State Street Eyes Tea ted and G J asses Fitted GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Eilliard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms J Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street LYON'S Park & Tilford's and Huyler's Bon Bons and Chocolates Kodaks. Developing, Printing and Enlarging L YON'·S 3 DRUG STORES C. A. Whelan & Co. TOBACCO Rindfleisch Parisian Dye Works. JOHN B. HAGADORN Hatter, Furrier and Furnisher Headquarters for Clasa Capa, Sweaters, Athletic Suits, etc. Dunlap Hat Agency. 509 State St., Illuminating Co. Bldg. Phone 210B·W Thalman, Caterer 238 State Street FELLOWS: You can appreciate the great dif- ference between common flowers and the flower• we grow at our own greenb.ouses right bere in Schenec- tady by patronizing W. CHAS. EGER Store 699 Albany Street Phone 3628-L GreenbC)uae 1408 State St. Pilon• 1 543.J ltutnu N attnunl iauk ~t~turrtalay. N. 1. Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent r

THE CONCORDIEN~SIS Engraving ·i;i.nd .. Embossing Lowest prices consi~tent with high dm•s work, will be quoted to college students, from now unti I com m.encement. 257 STATE s:r R!: ET Union Book Co~, Inc. THE TENEYCK Leading Hotel of Albany, N.Y. Fireproof . Orchestral Concerts during dinner and after the play Afternoon Tea on Mezzanine from 4 to 6 o'clock Alao THE ONONDAGA, Syracuse, N. Y. FIREROOF Both hotela conducted on European P1an Under direction of FRED'K W. ROCKWELL SCHEN·EC'J'A;DYt N. Y FURNJURE AMERICAN PLAN All Outside Rooms. EDWIN CLUTE, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. • A. · R. Zita' s Orchestra furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6 '07 'o8 'og '10 ·1 1 '12 and I9I3 ' , , ' ' ' Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 167 H ·It St Alb Only the Beat Service. None Better for Concert ICe BD · e&., · am1 OD . , any TAXI SERVICE Quick, Dependable Day and Night Service. · The quickest and most comfortable way to get to and from social and business en- gagements. Touring Cars for parties and out-of-town calls. PHONE 991 Day or Night. Any time. Shannon & Son . tr8 1-2 North Ferry St. The Sterling Art Shop A place for gift giving purchases. Interior Decorating. WILLIAM A. CAREY, Prop. 212 STATE STREET Schenectady 20th Century Lunch WE SERVE TI-IE BEST HOME-MADE PASTRY IN THE CITY 154 Jay Str~·et, ''On your way to the Post Office\ PATRONIZE YOt:R PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCOIIDIENSIS - -.., The :Kind of iVIe:n Who '':Roll Their Owvn'' They are the :finest type of men in the. world-resourceful, perse- vering, active in mind a11d body - always striving, always llccomplz'sh ... ingin every line of human endeavor. . The £Teafive instinct is strong in these men. They like to make their own cigarettes, with their ()Wn ha:nds, just the way they want them. They prefer the cigareites they roll for them- selves from ripe, mellow 'c Bull\ Durham tobacco to any ready-made kind they can ~buy. \8 U L{Ei)lJERHAM SMOKING TOBACCO (Enough for forty hand-mtJde cigarettes in e(lch 5c sa~) Once a man learns the rich, fragrant freshness and delightful, mellow flavor of 'rBuU\ Our :ham hand-made cigarettes he never smokes any other kind. Get \the Makings\ t()da.y ..,..,.,..\roll your own' '-and obtain thorough, healthful enjoyment and lasting AskforFREE 'hook of •• pg~r~~· with each 5c sack s-~Jtis{action. f R £ E An Illustrated Booklet, showmg how to \ Roll You Own,'' and a B.ook of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U.S. on postal request. Address\ Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C., Room 1210 • . THE AMERICAN rOBACCO COMPANY ilifllllJI(:j(JJlJUIIIJlllllltUU{I~UUUllUilllllnut.tun.uwiu•ana 1209

THE CONCORDIENSIS CHAS. He TURNER Sporting Goods Albany, N. Y. MOE D:EWILDE# Hatter and Furnisher. Trunks and Leather Coods 54 State St., Albany, N. Y. William J. Reinhart McClure & Cowles Designer and Maker of MEN'S CLOTHES Pianos and Player Pianos. Victor Talking Machines and Records. Five exclu· sive Victor Parlors. Easy Payments. 8 James Street, Albany, N.Y. 64 f-.lo. Pearl St., A Jbany, N. Y. Albany's Progressive Drug Store \Root for Jack, Morris Drug Co. FISHER'S 26-28 No. Pearl St. 2nd SHIRTS 50c Albany Agency for Whitman's 112 No. Pearl St. H Ou,. Business is Growing, DANKER Reliable Corsage Bouquets of ORCHIDS, VIOLETS AND GARDENIAS Albany 1-0 a11d 42 Maiden Lane Albany, N. l\. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

THE CONCORDIEN:S IS PARS,QN.S' ORCHESTRA :Music F ur.nished for all Oc,casions Telephone 2131-J The Manhattan Co. 142 STATE ST;REET A complete department ·food store The beat in everything for the table· at the lowest cash prices Quick - Active - Service ENDWELL SHOES The Best Made Shoes in the World They wear longer-they cost less. ENDICOTT -JOHNSON and COMPANY 206 So. Centre Street. Near State 31 0 State Street, Schenectady Bellinger Paint Co. :PAINTS, OILS Dealers: in all kinds of Wax Polishel '212 So. Centre St. A ••sQUARE DEAl,.. .. for everybody is the \Spaulding Policy.\ We guarantee e:ach buyer <>f an article bearing the Spaulding Trade-Mark that such article will give satisfaction and a reasonable amount of service. A G S ld • &. B, 126-128 Nassau Street . . .... pau tng ros. 520 5th ATe •• New york Send for Catalo~ue VanVoast & Leonard GENERAL INSURANCE 511 State Street Corner Barrett St. Schenectady, N. Y. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 200 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Preecriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles The Schenectady Clothing Company (i] Stein Bloch Smart Clothing Hickey-Freeman Quality Clothing Oakes Bros.' Sweaters SAY YOU SAW lT IN THE \ CONCO.R.U ~ .,

WQt ijumptnn Albany THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT OF MEN'S HOSIERY, UN.DERWARE & SWEATERS IN THE CITY All styles and materials-Cotton, Mercerized, Merino and Silk. Also a fine line of Pajamas and Night Shirts. Our prices are right-our goods are right-and our right method of doing business has brought us an ever increasing number of satisfied customers. If you are not already acquainted with us and our goods; please consider this a personal invi- tation to call and be convinced of our sincerity and desire to please. United Knitwear Company 19 North Pearl Street Albany, N. Y- ESTABLISHED 1850 467 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. JEWELERS & SILVERSMITHS • EVERYTHING IN CUPS AND MEDALS 10 NO. Pf::ARL STREET ALBANY, N .. Y. PATRONIZE YOUR PAPER'S PATRONIZERS

Good Clothes EN: Y/e s.ell Hart, Schaffner & Marx Clothes, and. yol1: know that a store that sells I-L, S. & M. Clothes sells the .right kind, and naturally rnust sell the right kind of ~~her things to wear too. If ~ou look us over a litt~ ~e =~JEnk you'll Eke us and oux way of doing_~usiness~. The ColleQ,e Clothier 240-44 State Street Schenectady ~ Art Press ' (

