,~·================~==================~ 1\::.-:.:::==============================t ~\ ~ Cltfe i . ~ .l.!:3a I '- ~· CONCORDIENSIS ~- 1. ,~.u-:--=;---------------.--_: _____ ==-n~ ~; - . ' . . : :: ; :!J fi: I .= l ~====::::;:=::=====================:::;:::==~::::;7 VOLUME 39 NUMBER 3 1916 TERRACE COUNCIL OCTOBER 7, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Veur•e• leading to the «''egree of A. B. CtASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course.. French and German are in- eluded in addition to . the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSit B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates I for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. S. Vour•e leading to the degree ol Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. <Jourse leading to the degree of B. s. ScntNTIFIC CouRsit- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAl. ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• leatUng to graduate degree•• CouRSlt L~AOlNG TO DEGREE ott M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE Ll!:ADING TO DEGit£~ oJt M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSlt LtADING To DI:GJtEE or PH. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis· sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information addreu F. C. BARNJts, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY !!EDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucK~R, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. N~tW'l'ON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided in to two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $uo. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, . Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALl\R~n B. H u:Esi~tn, Secretary, SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CI-IAS COOPER, :f\lo. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate VOL. 39 UNION'S Gained by ler Union's Saturday, to 0. Th~ cut. Twc quarter h the secon1 after a ste scored an~ It -vvas who playE that featu. frequently in plowinl f, . .piled up c 1· . Stantial cr .. i t->' 1 ent hut th1 extent. \J line-plung: red in ba~ \Babe\ pl the quartE tional cool Iiams line . baffling w: . trs well. Work with . while the l tain Jenki . Was the on W?-s the UE the spirit 1

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 OCTOBER 7, 1915 NO.3 UNION'S VICTORY OVER WILLIAMS. Gained by Staight Football Triumphs-Stol- ler Stars Throughout Game. Union's eleven conquered Williams last Saturday on Weston Field by a score of 14 to 0. The victory was decisive and clean- r,. cut. Two touchdowns, one in the second ~~ quarter by l\1oynihan on a forward pass, ·\ the second in the final period by Girling, ,~( after a steady advance down the field, were scored and the goal for each kicked. It vvas the terrific line-drives of Stoller who played the finest football of his career that featured the game. He was called on frequently and almost every time succeeded in plowing through the Williams line and _piled up on the secondary defense for sub- stantial gains. Girting's game was consist- ent but the wet field slowed him up to some extent. \Babe\ Rosecrans did some strong line-plunging on his own account and star- red in backing up the line. On defense \Babe\ played a ren1arkable game. Goff, . the quarterback, ran his team with excep- .... tional coolness and brains, playing the Wil~ · • Iiams line at its weakest point in a tnost · baffling way, picking his plays and his play- ·. ers well. The veteran backfield seemed to work with the drive and impact of a Krupp, while the green line was impregnable. Cap- tain Jenkins who, with \Bone\ Gardner, •• was the only veteran of last year on the line, ·· . W9-s the usual pinnacle of strength and kept the spirit high and the line low. Pollard of Williams starred in running with the ball, while Overton, La Plante and Tompkins did good work for the Purple. The fact that Williams was most success- ful in wide end runs in which tackle as well as end came over to make interference seems to show that the assertion generally made that Union's superior weight was re- sponsible for victory, is not altogether the case. Girling outpunted Overton consider- ably and Union's handling of the team on offense was better than Williams'. · The Garnet made no substitutions until the end of the final period when N otman took Moy- nihan's place at end. Union's only fumble came at the very start of the game when Garfield kicked off to Goff. The ball slipped from Goff's grasp and Overton of Williams recovered it on lJnion's thirty yard line. La Plante and Totnpkins made first down, but in the next plays Union held and Overton punted. The ball sailed untouched over the goal line and \vas put in play in Union's possession on her twenty yard line. Girling punted out of bounds in the middle of the field. The Gar- net was penalized 15 yards for off-side but again Union held and Overton kicked. Girl- ing made eleven yards on Union's first play. Girling punted soon after and the period ended with the ball in Williams' possession on Union's 40 yard line. Williams advanced to Union's three yard line on a forward pass and a penalty. There Brewer fumbled and

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS Moynihan recovered the pigskin. Girling punted to the 45 yard line. Jones uncovered a series of forward passes, the last of which \Babe\ Rosecrans intercepted. Union made four successive first downs on catapult plunges by Stoller and Rosecrans, and gains by Goff. On Williams' twenty yard line Goff hurled a forward pass to lVIoyni- han who breezed over Williams' goal for a touchdown. The enthusiastic band of Union rooters in the stands went mad. Rosecrans kicked an easy goal. After Blodgett tackled Goff, who had signalled a fair catch, the period ended. Garfield kicked off to M.udge to begin the second half. Stoller rode through the Purple line for first down. Girling kicked to Pollard. Williams could not gain and Overton punted. Girting returned the punt. On a shifty trick play, Jones made first down but Overton could not gain and punted. The whistle blew just after Goff had made first down. Hay got Overton when Girling punted to him. He soon returned the punt and it was Union's ball on Union's 40 yard line. · Rosecrans plowed through 15 yards. Wil- liams was penalized half the distance to her own goal on an illegal substitution. Girling carried the ball from the twenty yard line to \Villiams' three yard line and a moment later carried the ball over. The goal was not difficult. Williams' last drive carried the ball to .Union's ten yard line. Jones at quarter seemed to base all hopes on a successful for.,.. ward pass, but on the fourth down, when a for\\vard pass went over Union's line ·with- out being touched, the ball was put in play in Union's possession on her own twenty yard line. The Garnet started right off for another touchdown, but the game ended before this could be accomplished. Following is the line-up: · UNION (14) WILLIAMS (0) Moynihan _________ ,.. .... _ .... _.., __ .... ______ Hubbell Left end. Bowman ------------------------- Garfield Left tackle. DuBois ------------------------- Clifford Left guard. Gardner ------------------~------- Welch Center. Hay ------------------------}. A. Wright Right guard. Jenkins ··-------·------------------ Bro'\vn Right tackle. ~1udge -·---------------·-------- Blodgett Right end. Goff ---·--------------------------- Jones Quarterback. Stoller ---------------·---------- Overton Left Halfback. Girling ---------------·-------- La Plante Right Halfback. Rosecrans --------------------- Tompkins Fullback. Score by Periods. Union --------------0 7 0 Williams ___________ o 0 0 Summary. Touchdowns-Girting, Moynihan. Goals from touchdowns-Girting, Rosecrans. Ref- eree-Bergen. Umpire-Lowe of Dart- mouth. Linesman-. Young of Adams. Ex- tra official-Peterson. Time-two nine and two ten minute periods. Substitutes-Williams: Pollard for La Plante; Brewer for Brown; Austin for Clif- ford; Clifford for Austin; Sawyer for J. A. Wright; Weeks for Sawyer; Molthan for Jones; La Plante for Hubbell; Irwin for Clifford; Funk for Blodgett; Jones for Molthan; Wilson for Jones; Wright for Overton. Union : N otman for Moynihan. TRACK TEAM BUSY. Union's cross-country men already have their fall work laid out for them. N egotia- tions for meets with Colgate on October 16 and WiJ and it i will soc Capt a Kenna, squad a are wor All m country any afte: office. .. train be1 requests all get o· TERB Eugen Santee, Council noon. I college a for Unio1 man and He is a: societies. clubs, w<: net, secrc Junior P1 in several n1en will ever, and this Terre cil. The Tc tnen elec1 Finch, of Aurora· 1 ' Foster Br A. Glenn ' Glenn the Council in student m . Is preside1 ex-officio At the On1aha, rc

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 and Williams October 23 are well under way and it is expected that the Athletic Board will soon agree to the schedule. Captain Newton, T. Hance, , Scoby, Mc- Kenna, Newman and Peaslee of last year's squad and a promising bunch of freshmen are working hard every afternoon. All men who are considering the cross- country run may report to Dr. MacComber any afternoon at 4 o'clock at the gymnasium office. As there are only two weeks left to train before the first meet, Captain Newton requests that all men having any ability at all get out at once. TERRACE COUNCIL ELECTIONS. Eugene J. Hummer, '16, and Howard B. Santee, '16, were elected to the Terrace Council by the Student Body on Monday noon. Both men are very well known in college activities and have done a great deal for Union. Hummer is a 'varsity basketball man and captain-elect of the baseball tean1. He is also well known to the debating societies. Santee is manager of the musical clubs, was Editor-in-Chief of the 1916 Gar- net, secretary of the Honor Court, on the Junior Prom Committee and is quite active in several other college organizations. Both n1en will undoubtedly be more active than ever, and will do their full share to make this Terrace Council the best Terrace Coun- cil. The Terrace Council in addition to the tnen elected Monday, consists of Nathaniel Finch, of Buffalo; Carl F. Danner, of East Aurora; Horace Zimmer, of Gloversville; C. Foster Brown, of Schenectady, and Howard A. Glenn, of Scotia. With the exception of Glenn these men were chosen by last year's Council in May. Glenn, who presided at the student meeting for the first time Monday, is president of the senior class and therefore ex-officio a men1ber of the Council. At the same 1neeting Guy Beckett, of On1aha, received the appointn1ent of secre- tary of the student body. Mr. Beckett is a metnber of the class of 1918, is active in press club work and is a member of the Chi Psi fraternity. SWIMMING TEAM. The prospect for a fine swimming team this year is very good, as Captain Mallen has Reed, Younie, Ball, Eldred and Edger- ton as a veteran squad, and a large amount of promising material to work with. It is early in the year to say much of the candi- dates, but several of the freshmen have showed considerable skill, and will give the old men hard fights for places on the team. The call for candidates will be issued after the close of the football season, but it is hoped that those who intend to try for the team will begin to get in training before that time. TRAINING COUNCIL ELECTS OFFICERS. The Training Council which has for its purpose the betterment of training for ath- letes at Union, elected officers for the en- suing year at its first meeting. The officer:s are as follows: President, Charles Hummer, Jr. ; vice-president, Orr a Hawn; secretary- treasurer, Milton Ketchum. The new officers have pledged themselves to carry out the aims of the Council. DR. RICHMOND TO SPEAK. On Saturday, October 9, Dr. Richmond will be the principal speaker at the unveiling of the memorial tablet to John Bigelow at the Bigelow homestead at Malden-on-the- Hudson. On this occasion Dr. Richmond will take for his subject, \The Strength and Weakness of American Democracy.'' Among other distinguished people who will speak are the Hon. Joseph H. Choate and John Burroughs, the noted author and naturalist.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ----------------- Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR --------------- Nathaniel A. Finch. '16 LITERARY EDITOR --·-------------- A.vrom M. Jacobs, '16 ASS'T LITERARY EDITOR ---------- James B. Taylor, '16. STAFF ARTIST --- -------------·---·------ Alwyn G. Levy, '18 ASSOCIATE EDITORS: W. :tvf. Gilbert, '17; D. F. Chapman, '17; F. W. Porter, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS:F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., '18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; ]. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER ------------------- Howard A. Glenn, Kappa Alpha Lodge ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER----Ernest W. Mandeville, Psi Upsilon House Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Offi~e: Schenectady Art Press, 206 Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WHAT WILL YOU DO ABOUT IT? Again the hazing season has come and gone and again we who determine the course of the college whether through the dignity of our position or the influence of our logic may be thankful that the guilt of blood is not upon our hands. Each year as the entering classes increase in size son1e one is hurt and hurt seriously in the rushes. Last year a man was sent home with ruptures and internal hemorrhages from which he will be lucky if he ever entirely recovers. This year a man escaped with injuries which chance alone prevented fron1 being a fractured skull. Nor is this the total of casualties r·esulting from the annual rough house. Ask any old grad why the horse chestnut fight was tabooed or an upper classman why the snowball scrap was voted down. It was not because some one was too yello\v to stand up and take the punishment, but be- cause some one had a few brains of his own and was not afraid to use them for the benefit of the college. We naturally do not want to be classed as kickers or sore-heads, but whether half of the college or the whol~ of it is against us, 've frankly advocate an unconditional aboli- tion of what page 11 of our handbook describes as \hazing of a harmless and unobject- ionable nature.\ Some time it will be abolished, but whether before or after the fatal accident depends upon the initiative and judgn1ent of the powers that be. Colum- bia abolished her cane rushes after a man had been killed in one of them. Shall Union? The expulsion of the few guilty students who shall be the in1mediate actors in the tragedy will neither atone for the deed nor wipe out its result. I . I· . t t ' I ! . I 1 ~ . ~ k ' f ' I 1 1 llE ch frc m tic ua \V] su n1: Ct to

I I· . t t I I 1 ~ . . ~ k . ! I THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 It is up to us, faculty and students, who have the foresight to look into the future and see the inevitable, to stop hazing and stop it short else WE and not the few under- classmen half-crazed with the excitement of the moment shall be to blame for what all true Union men shall never cease to regret. We have brought this problem up in these columns before. We have not attempt- ed to paint the matter any redder than it is. We urge you to remember that no man can escape from the consequences of his acts or his errors of omission and to think this question over soberly before the next .under class fight. THE FOOTBALL SITUATION. The football situation at present scarcely needs any comment save a few words in the nature of praise to the team for their successes to date. The anticipated \hard game\ with Williams proved to be an easier victory than we expected. This was due not to any inferiority on the part of the wearers of the purple but rather to the excellent training and fighting spirit of the Union eleven. Not only have our men the real ar- ticle in training, but their morale may be said to be perfect. Somehow each and • every one of them seem to have caught the calm, confident unboastful, win-or-die spirit of their coach and. captain. There is a harmony of action-a unity of purpose which spells \no defeat.\ It is such speeches as Captain Jenkins gave in campus meeting Friday evening and at chapel Monday noon that show the true spirit of the Garnet and convince Union men that if we do not repeat last year's record it will be through no fault of team or coach. THE GENERAL EDUCATIONAL BOARD GIFT. Anent the gift fron1 the General Educa- tion Board about 'vhich we heard so much last spring Prexy Richmond has given the Concordy the following statement: \vVe have con1pleted the subscription necessary to secure the gift of $7 5,000 and a check for $65,000 has already been received from the General Education Board. The re- mainder will follow as soon as the subscrip- tions are paid in.\ Charlie Waldron as secretary of the Grad- uate Council, has sent out notices to those · \vho subscribed towards the fund and whose subscriptions are due that checks are to be n1ade out to Union College and sent to As- sistant Treasurer Dewey, that being Charlie's way of hinting to the subscribers to come across. It will be recalled that at a student meet- ing one day last May after the situation was explained to the student body over $1,300 was immediately pledged by those present. After this week President and Mrs. Rich- n1ond will be at leisure to receive students at their house Sundays after 3 :30 P. M. A CHANGE IN LIBRARY RULES. Mr. Clinton has changed the College Library rule concerning the borrowing of books from the reserved shelves. Hereafter books from the reserved shelves may be taken from the library at one o'clock in the afternoon on Saturday. On all other days, however, they may be taken out at the usual titne of 9 P. M.

i l I I j . I i i ; ! l ' 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. CLASS ELECTIONS. Wednesday, September 29, the seniors elected the following class officers: Presi- dent, Howard A. Glenn of Scotia; vice-presi- dent, Lucius E. Baldauf of Eden; and sec- retary-treasurer, Kenneth Creble of Feura Bush. Glenn is a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity and business manager of the Concordiensis. Baldauf belongs to the Pyramid Club and Creble is affiliated with the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. On September 30 the class of 1917 elected its officers as follows: Hal A. Scoby, Beta 'rheta Pi, president; Louis Mann, Delta Upsilon, vice-president; Ralph G. Morison, secretary-treasurer. 1918 elected its class officers on Friday, October 1. They are: Harry A. Calkins, Beta Theta Pi, president; vice-president, Man tin E. Morris; Raymond S. Glenn (Gummy's brother), secretary-treasurer. We cannot complete our list of class of- ficers as 1919 has not elected yet. BASEBALL MANAGER ELECTED. At a meeting of the Athletic Board held in the gymnasium on Wednesday evening, David F. Chapman was elected assistant baseball manager for 1915-16. Chapman is a junior and is a men1ber of Delta Phi. He is a prominent n1an in college, being con- nected with the Concordiensis, the Press Club, and theY. M. C. A. Other candidates for the position were Eldred, Lasher and Loughlin. GLEE AND MUSICAL CLUBS. Gardner '16 Elected Leader of Glee Club. . The first 1neeting of the Glee Club on the evening of Monday, Septe1nber 27, gave every promise of a most successful year. ·The freshmen, who numbered nearly 40, showed the1nselves to be very good material. 'rhe resignation of Romeyn Allen '16 as leader of the Glee Club was accepted, where- upon Harold Gardner '16 was elected in his place. Mr. Allen's resignation was neces- sary because he has left Union to enter the Albany Medical School this year. On Wednesday night, Septe1nber 29, the first meeting of the Mandolin Club of which _Arnold Hooper '16 is leader was very suc- cessful. Here, also, the new material was excellent. Howard Santee '16, the manager of the Musical Clubs, is arranging for several short local trips to be followed by a Thanksgiv- ing trip through the southern part of the state and a Christmas trip to New York City. FRATERNITY DANCES AND TEAS. The Fordham game on Saturday, October the ninth, will open the first social activities on the hill. Many of the fraternities are planning week-end parties and dances. Psi 1Jpsilon, Phi Gamma Delta and Chi Psi in- tend to give dinners which will be followed by dancing. Alpha Delta Phi intends to give a tea which will immediately follow the game. Beta Theta Pi will give its first dance, Saturday October the sixteenth. PREXY'S DATES. J\1onth of October: October 9-Dr. Richmond will make an address at the Bigelow Homestead, Malden- on-the-Hudson. Dr. Richmond speaks at the unveiling of a n1emorial to John Bigelow, a graduate of Union College. October 13-Dr. Richmond represents Union College at the inauguration of Dr. Henry Noble MacCracken as president of Vassar College. The same week he will represent Union College at the inauguration of Dr. J. Ross Stevenson as president of Princeton Theological Seminary. October 20-Dr. Richmond will be present at the inauguration of John Henry Mac- Cracken as president of Lafayette College. i ~ . - - t] 1\ v h. at t1 w . lfl ol m w, so fu fd H Tl \V At Tc Ft A- Ar I ] Fu Th

. a I I ~ I THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 On Your Way On our way again. On our way, however, sans the hand of our loquacious Hafiz at the helm. As a brand new colyumer,. we Nite, make our bow and make no prom1ses. \Ve V\rill A TT·EJ\IPT to make the colyum a hash of anything on earth that might inter- est a S. of 0. U. But we, must have contribs. Contribs are the staff of colyurning. Absolutely any- thing written in English will receive profuse welcome. We will even stoop to gently chaf- ing this person or that. In short, we don't care what we do. Here's how. We're off. LET'S START WITH A WOMAN. We read with sincerest sorrow that dear old Mable N armand has stopped one too many bricks. She is now lying sick-abed watching the stars. Would we could do something for her. We know full well that funds could quickly be raised among her friends at 0. U. to send Doc Mac to her aid. HAFIZ'S LAST LINES ON RELIN- QUISHING THE POSITION OF COLYUMN CONDUCTOR. The burden of this erstwhile weekly hun1or- ist \Vas n1ade of oxydizing frozen laughter, And giving jokes and blub~ perhaps a novel twist To make the n1erry ha-has bend a rafter Full n1any a jovial hour have I missed A-trying to write jokes till one P. M. and after- And yet for that have I been called a Coly- umist? I have not! but alas, how oft a Para- grafter! Full oft at my o\vn jests I've laughed in fits, That only made the other blokes in anguish roar- And novv that I forever cease to string this bull, it's Not that I love the column less, but humor more. HAFIZ. FIREWORKS FROM JOE BEAMISH. Howsaboy Nite: This bird with 'the cigarette coupon name, this here Hafiz, that used to run the colyumn, never had nothing anyway. You couldn't never give him no argument because he wouldn't print it. I could a busted him for the stuff he spilled about me in the freshman scraps. I'm go- ing to wait out for him some night and slip· him an earful of langwidge. JOE BEAMISH. A MATTER OF PUNCTUATION. Before-Easy Soph! After-Easy, So ph ! ! Cl yternnestra. Perhaps the frosh were too proud to fight. OUR RAH-RAH TYPE-SETTERS. On page 10 of last week's Concordy ap- pears the by-laws of the Inter-fraternity Conference. Beneath the head comes this ,,,.onderful line: \YahSo fiiUbe. Y-m- 111111-111m--n1n1m.\ Ah, an inter-fraternity yell at last. ON ONE HAND \Vhen the wintry blasts roar bleakly Up and down the street \V e rally 'round our steam pipes-· Alas, alack, no heat. ON THE OTHER HAND. \\rhen a red hot sun is beating Down upon the street Those eccentric radiators En1ulate Hell's heat. Snuffle! Snuffle! Gosh dard this doze om bide!

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. FUTURIST POME. I harbor a malicious hatred For a chapel bell, A chapel bell that blats forth early In the morning, In the bleak, gray early morning, And wrenches me from sweet slumber To toil Through another day. ·But BUT How sweet its silvery chime To my ears About 6 o'clock P. M. On Saturdays! THE CAMPUS OFF. Have you seen the lordly gentleman Who struts up College Lane Swinging de bonair-ily His sleek gold-headed cane? Have you marvelled at the briskness Of his Houghton Rah-Rah clothes, And coveted with longing eyes His snappy college hose? You Have? All Right 'rhen listen well, kind reader And I'll quickly tip you off- He's not a freshman millionaire ; He's just our campus off- . 1cer. It· There seems to be som~thing nervous about that last line. THE WORLD SERIES. Predicting the winner of the big gatnes that start tomorrow seems to be all the go. \Ve enjoy the sensational. We say that the Red Sox will beat the Phillies tornorrovv \vith Grover Alexander pitching! And novv we have a national bird-the \vhip-poor- \Villiams. NTTE. ADO. For the benefit of the assistant managers, we will announce that they will give one grand free feed pretty soon at 6 :30 o'clock on Thearle's Roof Garden. They will in- vite their unlucky contemporaries, also the student body, th~ faculty, Doc Salathe and the Teutonic army. Guests please bring knife, fork, spoon and tin cup. Suppose this fraternity stuff is all Greek to the composing room. Dear Nite: Your copy holds flashes of humor (they're weak and disguised it is true) but before you write next week's colyumn just take a tip from the Ed. Beg, steal or borrow some paper-some real live sizeable paper. We lost twenty sheets of your copy, which on Riz-La and such like was writ. LITERARY CONTEST. Av. Jacobs '16 is arranging details for a Concordiensis 1i terary contest. Full in- forn1ation concerning it will be given in next week's Concordy. R. G. Urban, '19, who sustained a slight fracture in the class scraps is at his home in Buffalo. His condition is reported in1- proved and he is expected back on the hill in a few days . THE GALLANT HIGHWAYMAN. ('rhe reader will find 1i ttle originality in the following story. The opening words which are in black type are purloined fron1 the letter Robert Louis Stevenson wrote to \V. H. Henley in which R. L. S. is sighing for ron1ance and gives samples of how such stories should begin. The plot was suggest- ed by Alfred Noyes' poe1n \The Highw~y­ tnan.\ The scenes and characters are old fan1iliar ones, found over and over again in stories with \Merrie England\ of two hun- cirecl years ago and more for a setting.) * * * I . I .. i . I f<J b< d~ tb . SlJ , eo hE ed dr hi: a . 111: ' co fa~ se. fo1 ra: la~ th cej th~ st~ th~ be: the th< to ed Co1 stc kn Gil arr Fl< arr \VO a r \Vh pai hai

e e a 11 Id . 111 n- f· i ' i I THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 I The night was damp and cloudy, the ways foul. The single horseman, cloaked and booted, who pursued his way across Willes- den Common, had not met a traveller~ when the sound of wheels broke in upon the sighing winds. At this the horseman check- ed his steed to assure himself of what he heard. And then he reined aside and wait- ed. At the end of a few moments a coach drew out of the darkness. The driver held his reins tight, for the mud was deep and a horse was liable to stumble that black night. But the leads we're trusty and the coachman had snugly ensconced his puffy face in his great coat. Now he drew him- self up, and sniffing the rising wind in- formed the traveller beside him that \it 'ud · I' . \ Th rain afore morntng, or m a stnner. e last word was no sooner out of his mouth than there rang out in somewhat nasal ac- cents the words so fearful to travellers in the eighteenth century, the command to stand and deliver. The coachman pulled up, the guard got down, the passengers clam- bered out into the mud and handed over their valuables at the pistol's point. When that was done the horseman commanded all to resutne their places; the coachman crack- ed his whip, and they left the highwayman covering them with his weapon. II. In the reign of good King George there stood not far from Dover a pleasant inn known as the Flemish ·Lion, kept by one Giles Jocelyn. He had served in the King's arn1y in his day, and had seen battle in Flanders, where he left his right leg. The army surgeon had fitted hin1 out with a \Vooden peg and the King had granted him a bounty wherewith he had bought the inn ·which he named in memory of his cam- paigns. He had a daughter Bess, with black hair and sharp eyes, and as fair and round a figure as one could hope to look upon w.it~­ in twenty miles of London. The gtrl s mother was. dead, and what with her fath- er's drunkenness, for Giles had too well learned the taste of liquor while serving in Flanders, and what with her cares and duties about the inn, the poor girl would have fared ill had she not been a lass of uncom- mon wit and sense. Giles had drunk up well nigh his whole substance, and had mortgaged the inn to Jonathan Vine, an old usurer of the hamlet. The latter saw that the Lion would turn a handsome profit if run by a proprietor who sold more liquor than he drank himself, and so he had placed his son, Tim, to act as tapster for Giles, and thus become acquainted with the business. Tim was a gawky but an honest lad, and was not a whit backward about working for a master who was either drunk or asleep most of the day and night, and who had a daughter with a pretty face. On a certain afternoon, which happened to be the very afternoon following the oc- currence related in the first chapter, there entered the tap-room of the Flemish Lion a n1an accoutered in no customary fashion for those parts. He wore a suit of plum col- ored velvet with a deal of bright gold en1- broidery about his coat; his boots were polished amazingly bright; and at his throat was a tuft of lace white as a goose's feath- er. He carried a gold-hilted sword at his side, and one would have taken him for a peer of the realm, save for a swarthiness of cheek, a sharpness of eye, and a certain air with which he twisted his waxed mustachios, oftener seen in Paris than London. His purse was well filled with gold sovereigns, as was noted by the two or three country- n1en in fustian jerkins who sat in one corner of the tap, and gaped at the stranger with the curious eyes and wonderous whisper- ings which greet the new cotner in rural dis- tricts. The stranger paid them no heed, but tasted the n1ug of porter Tim had brought.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS He set it down with a wry face. \Bah!\ he exclaimed to himself. \C'est mal. Ce n'est pas le bon vin de la patrie.\ And then he called aloud to Tirn, \Garcon! Have you not-wine?\ pronouncing the w with difficulty. Tim brought so1ne sack and set it before the stranger, inquiring as he did so, \\iViU you stop here to-night, sir?\ HQ! non, non, n1erci. I must go quick. I stopped only for the wine.\ While this brief interchange of words was going on Bess had entered and tripped across the sanded floor. The Frenchman noticed her at once, and tried to catch her eye. But she had turned her back and was busying herself with the glassware of the bar. The Frenchman kept his eyes on her until he rose to go, and when he was outside the door he turned and looked again. But only for a motnent; soon he had mounted his horse, a spirited mare with a shiny coat, and was galloping up the highroad. Two days later a traveller stopped at the Lion told the two or three husbandmen as- sembled in the tap that another coach had been held up, and even a lord's carriage stopped on the King's highway. The coun- tryside was aroused and no doubt the out- law would soon be in the sheriff's hands. The gallant Frenchman in the velvet suit and lace frill was frequently at the Fletnish Lion during these days. His boots were al- ways as briskly polished, his mustachios always scrupulously waxed. He never re- 111ained long, and never opened his lips ?ave to drink, so that Tim and old Giles and the Lion's hangers-on were in perfect doubt as to his identity. If there was any- one thereabouts who knew even so much as his name, it was Bess, and if the truth were known, he stood with no little favor in her eyes. III Fruitless were the efforts of the sheriff to capture the highwayn1an who was infesting the countryside. Two n1ore robberies oc- curred, and even a Bishop's coach was stop- ped, and the frightened prelate compelled to hand over a snug little offering that had been made hiln upon a visit to a country parish. And then the robber had produced a flask and in dumb show offered it to the Bishop to drink, which the saintly man did, nothing loath, for his heart was all a-trem- ble. He afterwards declared that it tasted peculiarly like the sack of the Flemish Lion's tap, but that was probably the old n1an's whimsy, or a notion due to his fright, for old Giles asserted with no little fierce- ness that he would not sell his good liquor to an outlaw, nor to any man not an honest servant of the King, God bless hitn! After this outrageous incident fewer rob- beries were reported and timid folk began to venture abroad with less trepidation. It was said the highwayman had been shot in his tracks, or had gone up to London to revel on his ill-gotten gains. ~rhe visits of the Frenchman to the Flem- ish Lion continued to be as frequent as ever. There was a look exchanged between Bess and him that showed to anyone who was sharp enough to see it that there was an un- derstanding between the two. Now Tim was a dull fellow at best, but the danger of losing the smiles of Bess sharpened his wits, and he perceived that something was brewing. But he kept his own counsel, and watched what went on in the tap when the Frenchman was there. On an afternoon towards the end of May the Frenchman rode up to the inn, tossed his reins to the stable boy, and entered the tap. In one corner sat old Giles, in his cups as usual. Tim was bringing two mugs of ale to his master, for Giles had bid his tap- ster drink with him. ''I-Iere, Tim,\ cried the landlord as the Frenchman entered. \Here I'm a-drinking to ye, boy. Ye're father has been no bad friend o' mine and it's not me who would'nt

p- st It 1, g d The 1 9 1 6 Terrace Council CARL F. DANNER NATHANIEL A. FIN 1 CH EUGENE J. HUMMER HOWARD A. GLENN HOWARD B. SANTEE CHARLES FOSTER BROWN HORACE ZIMMER

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 share a nnt.g of ale wi' his son. Here, Bess,\ he called as he noticed the foreigner's pres- nee, \wait upon this gentleman. Tim is tving a bit o' drink wi' me.\. 1ess hastened to do her father's bidding, brought the Frenchman his sack. Tim 'd his mug to drink, apparently giving to the drunken babbling of old Giles, ·ally watching what was going on be- the stranger and the girl. Bess slow- f)Wll the sack. The Frenchman reach- 1e glass, and their hands met. Tin1 ·ap of paper pass from the French- n to the maid's. She hastily with- :tnd, a bit flustered, and tried cov- P the paper in her apron pocket. : ,that it fluttered to the floor 1 1astened from the room. The d not notice it either, for his 'd back as he drank. But it Tim. He stepped forward should bring more drink, shoe upon the billet as it The Frenchman refused 't Ti1n stood rooted to the 1 .an's head was bowed in 1ed thus for a moment, nd left. Tim reached the paper. It was a ras written in a small e casement. Eleven.\ bethought himself. ~k for it when she ~ket. He dropped nt outside where red trellis which ~ Bess entered anxious look ··ed to a smile on the floor. ~r face red- ure herself ? one was over his IV There was a full moon that night and the countryside was light as day. Giles stulnb- led off to bed at ten. Bess had gone to her room an hour before. At half past ten Tim shut up the inn and put out the lights. When the clock down stairs struck eleve11 Bess was at the casement. She was listen\ ing intently. Five minutes passed, and not a sound. She sighed and frowned anxious- ly. 1~hen her eager ears heard the beat of horse's hoofs. On that still night sounds could be heard from afar, but the French- man's mare was fleet, and soon he drew up at the casement and tapped on the pane. Bess softly opened the window. In the man who sat on the horse without there was no trace of the splendid and immacul- ate Frenchman who sipped his wine in the tap-room. His velvet and gold was covered with a heavy black cloak; the dainty tuft of lace at his throat was hid beneath the folds of b 1 ack kerchief so arranged that it might be drawn up over the face. He reached up and clasped the girl's dimpled hand. \l\1a cherie,\ he said softly, \to-night I do a gr'r'eat thing, un grand coup. I find many louis; then we are going to France, Ah n1a douce France! we are going to be happy there. You shall see ze sunshine an' ze flowers; you shall -drink ze vvine there. I re- turn here in four hours. Be ready to go. Au revoir!\ He stood up in his stirrups to en1brace her. She was breathless at the prospect of leaving England and going across the seas; but she 1nurmured some words of love, and then fell back and gazed after hiln as he rode up the hill at breakneck speed. Her eyes followed him until he was lost to view, but she did not see Tim who was running as fast as his legs could carry him across the moonlit mea- dows. Never had she, or the Frenchman either, seen him as he stood in the shadow of an oak which overhung the roof of her

I i .. :; I ! i '! :I i 'i l II ! i ! I I II ! 'I : I ' i I ! 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS chamber, catching every word her lover spoke. v Bess closed the casement window and fell to dreaming of the country whither her lover \\\ 7 as going to carry her. \La douce France,\ he had called it. She did not know what the words meant, but he would teach her the language, and make her a fine French lady. She would wear silks and gold and jewels and be admired by gallant French gentlemen who would speak soft, sweet words in her ear. She would see the smil- ing fields of France, so much fairer she thought than these green hills of England; and the streets of Paris, and the theatres such as they had in London, of which she had heard vague reports that drifted down from the capital. It would be a great change from the sanded floor of the inn, and her tipsy father and his awkward tapster. Within three hours half a score of King George's men were marching up the high- road to the Flemish Lion. When they reached there the sergeant under whose command they were, stationed eight n1en to watch on the outside of the house, and with the ninth he entered Bess' chamber. The poor girl had been quite absorbed by her bright vision. She had heard not a sound, and this surprise unnerved her. \Vhen she realized what it all meant she was stunned and could do nothing but lie on her bed and sob. The sergeant left the private to watch over her and went below to beguile the tin1e with Gile's best brew. After an hour the fellow stationed with her nodded off into a doze. He had been carousing at an ale- house that night and his n1arch in the air had not wholly sobered him. Gradually Bess' sense returned. How could she warn her lover from the trap that was set for him? she asked herself. She saw that the red-coat was asleep. She quietly arose and tip-toed towards him. A board creaked but he did not stir. Stealthily she drew his pistol out of its case. Holding it in her hands she dropped down into a chair by the casement. She never took her eyes from the sleeping soldier, and she listened, listened for the beat of her lover's horse's hoofs as she had listened three hours be- fore. How heavily and fearfully time dragged on. She sat motionless; she was cramped with keeping one position; her breathing seemed like the rush of a forest wind. The beating of her heart must awaken the sold- ier, she thought. His comrades paced the ground below, and stopped to talk beneath the casement. One laughed boisterously. A crow perched in the oak cawed loud enough to rouse the dead. But the soldier never stirred. Suddenly there ca1ne the sound of horse's hoofs. Bess drew herself up, and turned away from the soldier now. She was straining her eyes to catch sight of her lover the moment he should come over the brow of the hill. The sun was just ris- ing. It would be a fair day to n1ake the voyage across the channel. Ha1nn1er, hammer, hammer, went the sound of hoofs on the hard high- road. The rider was drawing near apace. Suddenly he bounded into view. His plumes were dancing in the breeze, his sword -vvas shining brilliantly, and Bess could see a tuft of lace at his throat. He pulls up now; he has seen the crin1son coats around the inn and the glint of weapons in the sunlight. And now he hears a pistol shot, clear and piercing. His mare rears. \Sacre! ma vie!\ he cries and wheels his n1.ount around. The blood trickles from her flanks as she dashes down the hill with the speed of a meteor. 'rhey say the mare dropped dead when Dover was reached. The Frenchman left her lying in the street and ran to the dock where a French brig lay that was to sail that morning. -

his her by yes ' be- ped . 1ng the ath of ver . the ent his ess He . 111 his the John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. Our representative, AI. M. Clark, will display goods in the Old Gym, Today vV e Di sp1 ay 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N.Y. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 WHITE, 229 State Street 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 EARNEST MANDEVILLE, '17 NEAR BARNEY'S CclleQe Repreaentotive 1915 Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. NoRMAN-the new ARROW COLLAR.c 4 'lt rov '2) Cluett~ Peabody & Co.Inc.'Mah.evs CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. V.J e clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street

! ' I : I I , I : I I i I, ! [ \The Style Man.\ \Though man a thinking being is defined, Few use the grand prerogative of the mind; How few think justly of the thinking few, How many never think, who think they do.\ What This Store Stands For Every transaction must be satisfactory to a customer. There will be no compromise, no quibbling-right or wrong, the customer is right. Each cus- tomer served must and will be thanked. The words must be said with court- esy and a sincerity, a ring of real truth and to the customer not at him. When <:•. customer brings back a parcel and says the contents are not satisfactory vve hand out the purchase price promptly and willingly as you do when you huy it. We are proud of our sales force; every salesman is proud of our store. V•l e have no clerks, but real salestnen filled with (tHough ton Enthusiasm,\ \1\rith high ambition to serve you better than you have ever been served. Salesmen who sell Houghton merchandise plus Houghton value, plus satis- faction. Gentlemen, who will look you in the eyes with that unmistakable look of integrity, who know that in presenting or selling to you an article in this store they are selling it strictly upon its merits. Best not next to best. A.nd that the Houghton infallible guarantee stands back of every transaction large or stnall, like a great battleship, trimmed and ready for action and pro- tection. \LET THIS STORE BE YOUR STORE.\ 455 STATE STREET THE STORE OF \SPECIALIZED SERVICE\ Schenectady ~ Art Press

- e CONCORDIENSIS, ~: 4 I =: VOLUME 39 NUMBER 4 LITERARY CONTEST OPENS OCTOBER 13, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE . STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY il

UNION UNIVERSITY ; CHl\RLES Al~EXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. V<tu:r•e• leadbtg to the tlegree o! A. B. CLASSICAL CouRsE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA'l'IN-ScrEN'l'IFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. Scn~N'riF'IC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession a.nd some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANI'l'ARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELEC1'RIC.AL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 1. <Jour•e• leaflhtg to graduate deg·:ree11. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W Couasa LEADING To DECRE~ or M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSF: t.F:ADING To D~GJu~~g or PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. 13A~tNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: Wru ... rs G. TucK~tR, M. D.r Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P A.R.Kl'::R, J. NEWTON FntRo, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. r Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoaN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. Ar,FR~D B. H UES'l'ED, Secretary, SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate = ' = u h: T . tn di qt th lit wl qu di< ki< er;:

-This •ts of lc. :ourse .dmis- tS Y. on by prac- l >rma- Y. ), Dean. nt of state to its B. is sters. fee, .ress: Y. ·aded lev en ss: Y. - e a .. - The Concordiensis VOL. 39 OCTOBER 13, 1915 NO.4 GARNET'S SLATE STILL CLEAN. Anderson's Place Kicks Win 6-0 From Fordham. Union's eleven preserved its record of two undefeat~d seasons by winning from Ford- ham here last Saturday by a score of 6 to 0. The game was close and thrilling all the way. In the first play of the second period Anderson dropped the pigskin between Fordham's goal posts from placement fron1 the 20 yard line and repeated the operation in the third quarter from the 37 yard line. Fordham could not get within scoring· distance of Union's goal until the fourth quarter when a determined attack advanced the ball from the New Yorkers' five yard line to Union's thirty yard line before the whistle blew. Morcauldi, Fordham's little quarterback, played a whirlwind game as did Yule and Dunn. For Union, aside from kicking accurately, Anderson made consid- erable distance on the attack. Stoller played a strong game, making many long gains : through Fordham's line while Rosecrans's · punting was the best seen here this year. I-Ie clearly outpunted Yule. Goff ran the • team with the coolness and veteran strategy · that we are coming to expect from him, and . saved a possible assault on Union's goal · when he tackled Yule after a n1ad :fifty · Yard dash in the last five minutes of play. Don Price paying at guard in place of Dubois put up a strong game while Captain Jenkins, though boxed throughout the game by two and sometirnes three men, was always dangerous. Moynihan and Mudge are developing into two of the :finest ends we have seen and stood up well under the gruelling heavy at- tack of the truculent New Yorkers. Gard- ner has developed his passing remarkably since the beginning of the year, and his work was sure and fast last Saturday. The entire line played hard, but the team did not display the zest and punch apparent at Williamstown the previous week. Girling was out of the game suffering from an infected elbow while Dubois's knee still troubled hi1n and kept him out of uni- form. Stoller opened the game by kicking off to Dunn who returned the ball to the fifty yard line. Fordham got first down on two plays off tackle. Rosecrans carried an in:.. tercepted forward pass back twenty yards. Moynihan sped around the right end for 20 yards and Mudge soon after went eight yards around the other side. Stoller car- romed throug-h center for first down. An- derson gained two yards and Rosecrans seven. Stoller covered the distance for first down. Moynihan could not gain but Rose- crans n1ade five yards. This put the ball on Fordhan1's eight yard line, and the period ended.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS Anderson dropped back to kick on the first play after the whistle blew. The steady advance down the field had winded the backfield and the ten yards to go look- . ed itnpossible. From the 20 yard line Andy booted the ball over from placement Dunn kicked off to Rosecrans who came back three yards. Stoller made 4, but a fumble gave Fordham the pigskin. Fordham had a man offside. Corridon could not evade Mudge and Yule punted. Goff received the pigskin on the fifty yard line and went back 20 yards. A forward pass went astray. ·Rosecrans took two yards and then punted to Fordham's goal line. Fordham put the ball in play on her twenty yard line. After Gardner tackled Yule, Fordham made first down. Morcauldi went around tackle for 15 yards. On the next play Fordham was penalized after gaining fifteen yards. Yule punted. Rosecrans returned the kick, plac- ing tlie ball on Fordham's thirty yards line. Morcauldi returned the ball 12 yards and promptly made first down. The half ended. In the second half Yule kicked off to Goff who travelled back twenty yards. Moyni- han tore off nine yards around right end. Stoller clinched the first down. A recovered fumble brought the ball back to Union's forty-five yard line. Rosecrans shot through tackle for 10 yards. Union kicked, and Yule punted back. The ball was on Union's 45 yard line. Conklin was removed from the gan1e for unnecessary roughness and Fordham pen- alized 15 yards. After Stoller went through for three yards the ball was on Fordhan1's 3 '( yard line. Anderson dropped back and sent another place kick squarely between the posts. Once more Yule kicked off and Goff was dropped. Here Union made some of the n1ost consistent gains of the game. Ander- son made 12 yards, Stoller 8. Rosecrans kicked. Yule returned the punt, the return giving Union five yards advantage. The period ended. Stoller gained six yards, An- derson made first down and hit the same tackle again a moment later for five yards more. Fordham got the ball on a fumble. ~After a sensational 20 yard run by Mor- cauldi, a fumble gave Union the ball on her own 40 yard line. Moynihan and Anderson made first down. Stoller on two successive plunges made 12 yards. Goff repeated the operation on a delayed play. Anderson gained 4 yards, and a fumble set Union back with seven yards to go on the fourth down. Rosecrans attempted a drop kick that fell short. Then Fordham's attack developed, but too late to do damage to Union's clean slate record. A forward pass from behind the goal made first down. Morcauldi gained five yards, and then Yule pulled his sensa- tional fifty yard run. One by one the Union tacklers fell by the way. Goff only remain- ed between Yule and a touchdown. But Goff was enough. After two n1ore plays, the whistle blew and the game was over. The line-up : UNION. FORDHAM. Mudge ------------------------ Corridon Right end. Jenkins ---------------------------- May Right tackle. Price ----------------------------- Kane Right end. Gardner ------------------------ Treanor Center. l-Iav ----------------·---------- Kendrick \' Left guard. Bowman -------------·-------- Mulcahey Left tackle. Moynihan Conklin Left end. Goff ------------------------- Morcauldi Ouarterack. - Rosecrans ----------------------- Butler Right halfback. Anderson ----------------·-------- Dunn Left halfback. Stoller ---------------·------------ Yule Fullback. J ] ] r I ( 1 t . 1 1 I 1. t t I a 1~ b

a me her sive the fell but . . THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 Score by Periods. lJnion -------.--- ____ o 3 3 0-6 Fordham ---- -- ______ o 0 0 0-0 Summary. Goals from field-Anderson, 2. Suh- sti tutes-U nion : Avila for Moynihan, Nat- man for Mudge, Moynihan for Notman, Hunt for Moynihan. Fordham-Cantwell . for Conklin, Delehanty for Treanor, Benson for Mulcahey, Crainfield £or Conklin, Golden for Morcauldi, Treanor for Delehanty, Mul- cahey for Benson, Morcauldi for Butler, Conklin for Mulcahey, Maguire for Golden. Referee-Risley of Colgate. Umpire- Reed of Springfield. Head linesman- Grout of Union. Time of periods-Fifteen minutes. See the announcement of the Literary Contest. N.Y.U.LOOKSSTRONU The N. Y. U. line-up that will probably face Union next ·saturday on Ohio Field, New York City is as follows : Left end W aidman; left tackle, Williams ; left guard, Jordan; center, Sokol ower; right guard, House; right tackle, Son1mers; right end, Egan; quarter back, Manley; left half, Cann; right half, Erwig; fullback, Bernstein. N. Y. U .. in its two games this season has played brilliantly, defeating R. P. I. 23 to 0, and Hamilton 31 to 13. Reports of the Hamilton game ascribe Hamilton's scoring to the fact that N.Y.U. second string men got into the game irt the second half. The Violet backfield, Cann, Bernstein and Erwig, are powerful ground gainers, while the line is known to have a strong charging offense. Cusack, the big guard who made a reputa- tion last year by kicking a drop kick from the fifty yard line against Rensselaer, is not playing \vith New York U. this fall. He was a tower of strength on the line, while his kicking vvas phenon1enal. Cann, however, has developed -vvell and seen1s to be falling into Cusack's footsteps as a strong kicker. Cann does the punting as well as drop-kick- ing for N. Y. U. The Violet team is prob- ably the hardest team Union will face this year, and will force every ounce to square up for the defeat of last season at our hands, 9 to 0. UNDERCLASS STRUGGLES CONTINUE. Three Football Games and a Track Meet. The underclasses are soon to begin their athletic conflicts for which the following rules have been agreed upon : All football men on the training table list and all regular members of the 'varsity squad, who for special reasons are not on said list, are debarred from all competition in the sophotnore and freshmen contests. The contests are held under the joint man- agetnent of the Terrace Council and the Athletic Board. The Terrace Council has appointed N. A. Finch and Horace Zimmer as a con1mittee to co-operate with the Ath- 1 etic Board in completing the arrangements for the contests. The following are the dates of the events and their values in points: Points Monday, October 18, football gatne ____ 25 Monday, October 25, football game____ 25 Tuesday, November 2, football game __ 25 On Tuesday, November second, just pre·· ceeding the football gatne, there will_ be a track n1eet in which the following events will take place. The points in the track events count 5, 3 and 1 for first, second and third places respectively: Points 100 yard dash ----------------------- 9 440 yard run ------------------------ 9 1 mile run -------------------------- 9 Running high jump ------------------ 9 Twelve pound shot put -------------- 9 880 yard relay race tean1.s of eight, 10 points.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Tug of war, twenty-five men on a side, 20 points. No cleated or spiked shoes may be worn in the tug of war. Each class will be credited with five points for each man debarred fro1n the contests because of being on the 'var- sity squad. The sophomore and freshmen football teams are practicing regularly and are rounding into shape under the coaching of upperclassmen. Philip Downs has been se- cured to act as coach for the sophomores, and John Jackson for the freshmen. TEAMS UNION WILL FACE. Scores Show R. P. I. and Hamilton Weak. While Union was winning over Fordham Saturday two of our rivals were faring bad- ly. Hamilton was beaten 31 to 13 by New York University and R. P. I. was smothered by Rutgers 96 to 0. It is hard to find much ......___ satisfaction in the result of the Han1ilton game for even though it shows Hamilton in- ferior to the Violet it also serves to empha- size the fact that N.Y. U. has an exception- ally strong team that must be met by the Garnet next Saturday. This aggregation is light but very fast and they employ many trick plays and open formations that will keep our ends and secondary defense busy. The N. Y. U. team is built up around Cann, the left halfback, who has wonderful ability as a punter. His long spirals are bound to play an important part in the contest while his feat of drop kicking a goal from the forty yard line will make him a dangerous oppon- ent and one whom Captain Jenkins' war- riors must watch closely. Erwigat, the other half position is a clever open field run- ner and was constantly worrying the Ham- ilton defense by his clever dodging. Han1ilton's best bets seem to be Captain Pope at left half back and Schwarz, the full- back. Their defensive work on Saturday was very weak and it will be necessary for then1 to develop this feature of their ga1ne to a great extent if they hope to pierce the strong Union line. .. In the game with Rutgers, R. P. I. showed absolutely no power in any department of the game. Their defensive play was very ragged as the large score indicates and the Rutgers back had no trouble in piercing the line. They lack a good kicker and Captain O'Hara seems to be the only man able to carry the ball with any success. In a game that was devoid of any exciting features and was characterized only by straight football. Middlebury played Stev- ens to a scoreless tie. If relative scores count for anything in comparing teams, the Garnet will meet its hardest rival next Saturday and if we can emerge from the game with our line still uncrossed our chances of a more successful season than last year will be greatly in1- proved. LAST STURDA Y'S SCORES OF THE TEAMS UNION FACES THIS SEASON. Stevens, 0; Middlebury, 0. N. Y. U., 31; Hamilton, 13. Rutgers, 96 ; R. P. I., 0. Hobart, 6; St. Lawrence, 0. Cornell, 46; Williams, 6. SCf\t' 'T\~T .l~ST flfTEf:.M FE E.T O\~EJ\ A~~IN l Football Term-Penalized Five Yards '] n t1 a fc ~ t1 C< w Ct of to nc al- w. ll1 Ot se pr . Sll pe fol se: ar~ • to • Ec co:

the of \' the the to by . lll its can still . ln1- THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 LITERARY CONTEST Two Prizes for Contributions to the Con- cordiensis. Due to the generosity of President Rich- mond and the Concordiensis management, the literary department of the paper is en- abled to offer two prizes, probably of books, for the coming year. The first prize of $10 will be a warded for the best series of articles, the second prize of $5.00 for the best single article. Each series must consist of two contributions: A. A story, serious of humorous. or An essay on a topic suggested by current world-events and problems, class-room di3- cussions, etc. And B. An article dealing with some phase of Union College history, traditions, cus- toms, ideals, etc. All articles should approximate 1,000-- 2,000 words in length and should be of a nature of interest to the undergraduate and alumni readers of The Concordiensis, in which they are to be published. Contestants n1ay compete for the individual prize with-- out binding themselves to compete for the series prize. The award of the individual prize, however, will be made for the best single article, irrespective of whether it hap- pens to be one of a series or not. Contestants are asked to comply with the . following rules: I. All Union College students except the senior members of the Concordiensis board are entitled to compete. II. All articles must be handed or mailed • to the Literary Editor or Assistant Literary • Editor so that they may appear in the Con- cordiensis before May 1, 1916. III. All articles should be signed with a pseuclonyn1. All single articles and the first article of each series should be accompanied by an envelope with the pseudonym on the outside and the author's real name on the inside. IV. The Concordiensis board reserves the right to cast out any articles it deems un- worthy of publication and to withdraw the offer of prizes if in its judgment a sufficient- ly high standard is not attained. V. Awards will be made at commence- n1ent upon the decision of an impartial board of faculty and student judges. For further information, consult AVROM M. JACOBS, '16, Literary Editor, JAMES B. TAYLOR, '16. Assistant Literary Editor. TENNIS TOURNAMENTS RESULTS. Knight-MacCauley; Knight. E. H ummer-Clapp ; Clapp. May-Hulshizer; May. McGreay-Towne; McGreay. May-McGreay; May. Girling- Wynne. J ones-Brind; Jones. Griswold-Young; Young. Bennett-Preston; Preston. Soler-Stevenson; Soler. C. Hummer-Vought; Vought. A. Meade-Brown; Brown. Laughlin-Persons; Persons. Brown- Persons ; Brown. Clark- Beckett; Beckett. Dorian- Roche ; DorIan . Beckett-Dorian; Beckett. Gillespie- Haag; Gillespie. l(irkup-Porter; Kirkup. ART ANNOUNCEMENT. Students with ability in n1aking cuts and cartoons suitable for the Concordiensis are requested to consult with Alwyn Gordon I.(evy, '18, staff artist.

14 THE 'CONCORDIENSIS. DR. LEUPP VISITS UNION. Biographer of .. George Westinghouse Gains Information of Inv~ntor's U ndergrad- uate Days. Dr .. Francis Ellington Leupp, Williams, '70, of Washington, D. C., a veteran news- paper and magazine writer and a well known authority on Indian affairs, while in Sche- nectady last week on business made a visit ' to the campus and called on Charlie W aid- ron at the office of the Graduate Council. He was in search of n1aterial regarding the undergraduate life of George Westinghouse, who was a student at Union. Dr. Leupp is one of Williams' most distinguished alumni and is very actively connected with the Wil- liams Alumni Association of D. C., of which he was president for several years. He was also at one time Vice- President of the Col um- bia University Alumni Association of D. C.; from this instituion he took the degree of LL. B. in '72. In 1910 Williams conferred upon him the degree of LL. D. After practicing lavv in New York City for a few years Dr. Leupp became a news- paper writer and was subsequently connect- ed with various journals of importance, among them the Syracuse Herald and the New York Evening Post. For twenty years he served the latter as its Washington cor- respondent. At different time~ Dr. Leupp has been a member of the United States Board of In- dian Commissioners and of the United States Commission of Indian Affairs. He is the author of a book entitled \The Indian and His Problem.\ He has also written a book called \The Man Roosevelt.\ This was Dr. Leupp's first visit to Union for several years. The campus, he said, in1- pressed him on account of the regularity with which the buildings are located, as having something of the appearance of a military post. He was also struck with the imposing appearance of the Round Building. Dr. Leupp's undergraduate days at Wil- lian1s were in the time of Mark Hopkins, who was one of Williams' famous presidents and whose name was recently admitted to the Hall of Fame. Dr. Leupp had n'lany inter- esting and amusing anecdotes of this distin- guished educator and of life at Williams in the late 60's. His e:xtensive travels among the Indians and his study of Indian affairs has made Dr. Leupp a well known authority on the sub- ject and has furnished him with a fund of Indian lore which is extremely interesting. FRATERNITIES CLASH. Rivalry Strong for Conference Trophy. The regular meeting of the Interfraternity Conference was held Wednesday, October the sixth. Newton, '16, was elected secre- tary and treasurer to take the place of Jimmy Butler who did not return this year. A com- mittee was appointed to arrange a schedule for interfraternity tennis. ' A prize known as the Interfraternity Trophy will be awarded to the winning team. No 'varsity tennis men will be allowed to take part. A committee -vvas als,o appointed to take charge of a base- ball schedule for the early spring. Some new rules regarding the rushing of freshmen were brought up at the meeting. These ru]es will be submitted to each frater- nity before they go into effect. If a fresh- n1an is entertained all day by one fraternity, he shall be allowed to accept the favor of another fraternity on the following day. During ne:xt fall the conference also plans to have a permanent secretary who shall be selected fron1 the neutral body, to regulate this rule. M. I. T. has adopted a scheme whereby 1nen, winning their letters in more than one sport, or successively in one branch, will be awarded stars for each time they win their letters afterwards, to wear alongside the \T.\ This excellent custo1n is already in vogue at West Point and Annapolis.

and the nter- . 1n Dr. sub- of as men of tin g. ater- of day. to 1 be one be the . tn . -- oc·r. I::, i 4 I~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 15· ·DEBATERS CONSPIRE. The· Debating Council, which expects to 111eet. soon, will endeavor to arrange a debate with Cornell ; and also hopes to forn1 a tri- college league. As three men of last year's 'varsity team are now in college and much promising ma- terial is in view, a successful season may be expected. The annual Allison-Foote prize debate will be held as usual. An effort is being made to arrange debates between the upper classes. There will be debates between the fresh- n1en and sophomore members of the Philo- n1athean and Adelphic societies. As these are t-vvo of the best and oldest associations of this kind in college one may readily see the advantages of belonging to either of them. Freshmen should avail themselves of the opportunity which is offered them. Motto: \1919 men join a debating society.n See the announcement of the Literary Contest . Sophomoric Reminiscences ELECTRIC LABORATORY. New Wireless Apparatus Purchased. The Electrical Engineering Department has recently purchased a cotnplete Marconi wireless set, consisting of a two kilowatt sending set and a cabinet receiving set. The set will not he in operation until some suitable place can be furnished in which to install it. Nothing definite has yet been decided upon, but it is probable that an addition will be built on the laboratory for the purpose. When the arrangements have been completed; Union will have a first class radio station which will be open to all stud- ents who are interested in wireless. Several other additions and improvements have been made in the laboratory. A new rotary converter has been installed, the old vvireless room has been enlarged for Instruc- tor Lee's office, and the whole laboratory has been overhauled and put in better work- ing condition. SONGBIRDS TO BE HATCHED. \Choral Society\ Name of New Warble·rs. A choral society which will draw about fifty of the best voices on the hill is now i~ process of organization at Union. About sixty men tried out for the Glee Club, of whom only thirty-five can be taken on the Musical Club trip. The general quality of those who tried out was so good that Bern- ard A. Mausert, the coach of the Glee Club ' suggested the formation of the Ch0ral So- ciety, which can handle finer music than that of the Glee Club. Weekly rehearsals will be held, and a grand concert is promised. It is hoped that the project will fulfill tl1e greatest expectations of its advocates. Athletes at Yale are being trained by \movies.\ The coach has discovered that the men work harder and more consistently when the lens of a motion picture machine is directed at them; so that whenever it is possible the coaches are having pictures taken of their charges in action.

H I : i l i l 0 I ! ' 1 l' ' ' < < ' j'• I Jj ' II ' I i :• ' '\ I i I·: , I ;, I ' ~ I ! 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., aos Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE LITERARY CONTEST. Whatever n1ay be said of Union's other activities, it is certain that her literary work as typified by contributions to the Concordiensis cannot compare favorably with the work of other colleges. The fact that now and then there appears a very creditable contribution seems to indicate that potential ability is not lacking. The chief defect lies in the scarcity and irre- gularity of these contributions. To over- come this condition, The Concordiensis is offering two prizes, to be given for literary efforts. Details of this contest are given elsewhere in this issue. The purpose of this editorial is to encourage men to try out for them. In the din1, distant future, we may hope for a magazine, published by the students, and devoted solely to literary purposes. For the present, the Concordiensis must fulfill the double function of news medium and literary vehicle. Since we cannot have separate papers for our news work and stories, and since we advertise the Concor- diensis as ''a literary and news \\veekly\ it behooves us to make the literary section as excellent as possible. We cannot blame the students, per haps, for failing to be more generous in their con- tributions to the u Concordy.\ We know that they are weighed down by other activities which probably redound more to their good name and carry with them more satisfaction than that of seeing their initials appended to a few columns of printed 1natter. That is why we are offering two prizes not as n1ere pretexts for cajoling con- tributions from students, but as legitimate a wards for service in a most worthy direc- tion. \V e think the work needs an artificial stimulus. We are offering this stimulus, and it's up to you, Mr. Student, to be prop- erly affected. President Richn1ond's offer to finance the larger of these prizes comes most oppor- tunely. The san1e expedient was tried by hin1 a few years ago and the results, while encouraging, were far from satisfactory. Any manifestation on the part of the stud- ents that they are not responsive and appre- ciative of this co-operation will border on discourtesy and ingratitude. It is not that we ask you to write merely to curry favor with President Richmond, but we do want to show him that his efforts for us are not futile. Only four n~en are excluded from the con1- petition. This means that several hundred are eligible to co1npete, senior to freshman. c .. ( c ' \ J..' L. I (' d ~.: cc

and have and y'' it as con- to nted two con- . trec- the por- by on that not dred 'THE CON·CORDIENSIS 17 Above all, do not be scared because of the literary reputation of any man in your own class or in the classes above you. Our criterion is to be adaptability to use in The Concordiensis and on this plane there is room for as many different sorts of articles as there are temperaments among students. The rules are purposely few and simple. The men in charge stand ready to give any further information, advice as to choice of topics, and so forth, and so forth. Who knows but that a class room then1e may be the nucleus for a prize-winning contribu- tion? At any rate, get into the spirit of the contest. Let him who has never courted the satisfaction of seeing his written word in print cast the first stone! KEEP LEVEL. say or do has its reaction on all about you. So it is necessary that your attitude be one of reserve and calmness, if you would have that the prevailing spirit of the college. Next there are several more tangible things that you can do to help the team to victory in the hard games still before us. The first is to get out on the field if you have the weight and football ability and give the 'varsity something to practice on. You vvould better give the team its hard knocks than to let N. Y. U. or Hamilton do it. Then again, you can help by getting into the cheer practice, by speaking encouraging words to the team men and seeing to it that no one breaks training or is deprived of the necessary amount of sleep, or is bothered in his studies and lastly by writing some good, live songs to help the team to victory when 1 uck seems against it. This we recommend to you as precautionary measures against \swelled heads\ and over-confidence. DEATH OF UNION TRUSTEE. Now is the psychological moment when we are apt to catch the dreaded disease of \swelled heads.\ Three straight victories without a point being scored against us is in- deed an encouraging beginning. Add to this the fact that two of or opponents were fonnidable foes and we have sufficient rea·· son for elation-hut just here is where the danger lies. \Ve are likely to become over- confident. It is a weakness of hu1nan nature. Victory is often n1ore disastrous than defeat. \Ve do not give this advice to the team for they already know and realize the situation. It is for the benefit of the student body. ''But,\ some of you will say, \what can we do _about it; how does our mental attitude ~.ffect the results of the games?\ This is ex- actly the point that we want to bring out. Your attitude has much to do with it. In the first place you are an integral part of a corporate whole and whatever you think or While presiding over the celebration of the Elizabeth Cady Stanton birthday centennial, October 11, 1915, Mr. Harwood Dudley, a trustee of Union College, was stricken with heart disease and died within a few minutes. Mr. Dudley, a life-long resident of Johns- town, N. Y., was graduated from Union in the class of 1875. He was one of the most protninent lawyers in this. part of the state and was also vice-president of the People's Bank of Johnstown. His term of office as trustee expires in 1916. He was one of Union's most loyal alumni and his death is keenly regt:\etted. He was a brother of the late Brigadier General Edgar S. Dudley, U.S. A.

. I 'I . I j,l ' 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who never to himself hath said, \Tomorrow morning I will rise Before the sun lights up the skies. A brisk, cold shower, then a run Through tingling wind ere day's begun, And glowing warm with youthful health, I'll creep back to my room with stealth, To study while my brain is clear And learn my verbs without the fear Of sitting down in class unstrung .Unwept, unhonored and unsung.\ Yet Breathes there a man with soul so dead Who, about to rise 'Neath dawny skies, Has ever left his soft, warm bed? A MATTER OF PUNCTUATION. Before, Good Nite! After, Good, Nite!! =Clytemnestra. Now Clyt, you stop ! ON Y·OUR WAY. Though sitting through our classes Is really quite a lark, I'd rather be a striker And sit in Crescent Park. It takes Union tnen to start things. How about cleaning the other side of our foot ball slate ? A grewsome spectacle, that grave on the Chi Psi walk. \Let's see, how old is Columbus tomor- row ?\ a mad wag asks. If tl1ese juvenile surveyors don't cease their jabberings beneath our window, some of them will enjoy only a transitory existence. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. (On Your Way spurns all requests for advertising space. We can therefore say what we please. Into the colyumn we will hereafter incorporate the only truthful theatre review in the city.) --~ROCTOR'S-The upward swoop in pr1ces leaves the grade of bills sleeping placidly on the same old level. As usual, two or three admirable acts were smothered in ._.,.............:If··•·:• • majority of indifferent ones. The St. Clai;· ' 1 family, sentenced to head the first half bill ' were musically good, if you like it, and J. C. Mack Trio comedy-skitted pretty well. Claude Gillingwater last-halfed better than the rest of the field. Among their contem- poraries we could at least pick out two or three good-looking ladies . . v A~-\ Seven Keys to Baldpate,\ in our m1nd, 1s Geo. Cohan's masterpiece. It is a great piece of ingenious playwriting and was itnmensely enjoyable though the company was not all that it might have been. \The Military Maids\ breezed in with a rather better burlycue than the average. Some of the maids had not reached old-maid· ism and the comedians were quite lively. But after all is said, Mr. Van Curler could learn a lot from Mr. Empire of Albany, N.Y. MUDRA WK-We flatly refuse to call it the New Hudson. Too distinctive, too aris- to cratic. * * * The Crane-Shirley stock is below par and evinces no desire to recover. We held high hopes when they opened with a last season Broadway production, even ( t a ']

ase for say . tn ~- bill, c. or our is a was a ould it . ans- is with even THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 though it was poorly put on. But the first week pace was too hot. Now they have skidded down the scale to \Quincy Adams Sawyer.\ Next week comes \One Day,'' \Three Week's\ only rival. Then we pre- dict ,.'Uncle Tom's Cabin,\ followed by a quiet exit through the cellar door. \Won't you come and twitch with me ?\ carrolled the mad male wags at the Satur- day dances. Remarks on the world series : \I told you so.\ \Aw you lucky stiff.\ We had evidently drifted too far into the imaginary when we predicted Alexander's downfall on Friday. All right, here's another. He will succumb to the Red Sox ~ in Boston this afternoon (Monday). We were agreeably surprised last week when ole Tom Wilson announced his pos- session of Mrs. Galt. The far-sighted Teutons evidently saw it coming and vamoosed before Torn brought up his reserve. First blood for Mrs. Galt. Ole Tom took a precipitous tumble from the suffrage fence. THERE GOES THAT CONFOUNDED BELL! How dear to our hearts Is that iron-bound clapper That ironic clapper That hangs in the bell. Nite: After dropping Middlebury from the football schedule why not take on the Wood- bury Facial Institute eleven? Raucously HAFIZ. Or the Waterbury Watch Academy? NITE. FRESHMAN PEERADE NOVEMBER SIXTH. Loughlin, '17, !leads Committee. At the college meeting on Monday the Ter- race Council announced the following fresh- man ''Pee-rade'' Committee: William Lough- lin, chairman ; Morris Gilbert and Ralph Mor- ison. The \Pee-rade\ is to take place on the afternoon of the R. P. I. game, November 6. According to all available information at the present time,\ many innovations will be made by the committee in 1919's \Pee-rade\. Unusual material has been discovered in the class, which will afford a wide sweep of char- acters, not to forget the \war-babies.\ Necessary to the success of the event is money, so let's all come across at the first asking. It depends upon the students' back ... ing as much as the committee's ability. Are you with them? A'rHLETIC BOARD DESIGNATES. · TENNIS TEAM AWARD. At a recent meeting of the Union College ...Athletic Board, it was decided on approval of the student body to change the insignia worn by the n1embers of the 'varsity tennis team in the future. Formerly the official in- signia was a three inch U containing a small- er T\ worn on the left breast of a white neg- ligee shirt. The change consists in using a six inch U with a smaller T on either side, to be worn on a V neck white sweater. This change vvas voted on and passed in college r11eeting Monday. NOTICE, NEWSPAPER MEN. Next Monday evening at Concordiensis 1neeting, Mr .. Philip T. Hill, editor of The Schenectady Gazette, will speak to the mem- bers of the board on \The Technique of \Vriting Newspaper Stories.\ All tnetnbers of the hoard and especially the freshmen are urged to be present. Members of the Press Club are cordially invited.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. HEAVENS, WHAT A MAD, MAD WAG. Shanghai and will go thence into the inter- Hoffy was logic~ing madly away. ior of China. \Now says the Great Mind, \I once knew a doctor who was accumulating con- siderable fame through his seeming ability to cure all ills. When approached for the secret of his success, he said: 'I can cure ·fits. When a patient comes to me, I throw him into a fit and then cure him of it.' Now then, from a scientific viewpoint, what sort of a doctor was this man?\ And Jackson, that bubbling, irrepressible Jackson, shouts, \Unfit!\ AN INTERESTING BOOK. While the work of cataloging the Tayler Lewis collection was progressing recent- ly, a volume containing matter of such quaint and curious form that classification was difficult, was being examined, when the discovery was made that the book had once been the property of Daniel DeFoe. On the title page his name was written and a com- parison of the writing with a lithographed signature of DeFoe, proves the genuineness of the signature in the book. The volume is entitled '~A Voyage to the World of Cartesius,\ and is a satire on the philosophy of Descartes by Thomas Taylor, \The Platonist.\ The volume is dated Lon- don 1694. While of no considerable value, the quaint phrasing, ancient manner of spelling and use of capitals with the fact that DeFoe once owned it, makes the volume worth a place as a rarity. GODFREY, '15, LEAVES FOR CHINA. Harold G. Godfrey, '15, was on the hill Monday, October 11, to make a last visit be- fore sailing for China where he has a posi- tion with the Standard Oil Company. On the 15th of this month he leaves New York for San Francisco, where he will take pass- age for Japan and after a railroad journey through that country he will embark for Mr. Godfrey was one of 4'1 out of 900 ap- plicants who were admitted to the Standard , Oil Company's school in New York on July 1st, and was one of 25 to complete the course required by the company. \Well they didn •t get my hyn1nal or chapel-seat''

·rHE CONCORDIENSIS 23 ( 4.) Too n1uch study of history or socio- logy, which deals often with cruel and sel- fish men, has given many college girls an en- tirely wrong ide·a of a man's real nature and the meaning of n'larriage. The cause of failure to tnarry seems so absurd that it is rarely given. Yet it exists and in the minds of the girls concerned a good and noble man is n1ore or less of a hypocrite. This illus- trates again the saying, \a little knowledge d h . \ is a · angerous t 1ng. COLUMBIA, 1903. New York, Sept. 6, 1915. At the 65th· annual meeting of the Penn- sylvania State Medical Society, Doctor R. N. Wilson strongly attacked college ath-- letics. In the first place he pleaded for more intelligent supervision. He then said, \A radical evil is the tendency of college~ to encourage school boys to emulate them. It is appalling how many former athletes die of heart disease soon after retirement from active athletics.\ GREEN QUEUES ON CHINK FRESH- MEN. Freshmen in the .University of Hong l(ong are spared the indignity of skull caps and Chinese customs of dress prevent green- tie and no-cuff regulations. But green .dye is applied to their queues, quite effectively producing the sa1ne result. Mr. Tilly, the German-English-American phenom, is rejuvenating in our class roon1s. He acts just like anybody else. HERB IS OVER-TRAINED. Old Friend Herbert, of N. Y. Tribune lineage, must have been slightly off form when he composed his Sunday headlines. \A mherst Trounces Bowdoin Eleven,\ he says, and, searching for the score, we dis- cover it to be the terrible slaughter of 6-0. 'I'hen he goes on \Ursinas Almost a Match for Lafayette.\ Almost, but not quite. The neck-and-neck .score was 13-2. \Sudden Rich Paving Broadway With Gold,\ \War Stock Bonanza,\ shrieks the Union-Star's Saturday scar,ehead. Judging from the war J:oans we made Friday night, Broadway, Willian1stown, ,must have been paved with radi urn after the conflict. SENTENTIOUS SENTIMENTS (Stolen from The Widow.) Hush little booze joint Don't you cry; You'll be a drug store Bye and bye. * * * * ATTENTION FROSH. Soup, like s1nal1 children, should be seen, not heard. * * * * * * * * Pick: I hear yott hurt your head. \Vick : Nothing in it, kid. * * * * Frosh: \I \·Vonder if there's a hell?\ Soph: \You should worry; you're too green to burn:'' Mechanics Prof. ; \Use your head and find out which way that beam will bend.\ Stude: \What's he think ·we are, pile driv- ers?'' \A Freshie was cast on an African shore, \iVhere a cannibal monarch held S\vay And they served up that Freshie on slices of toast On the eve of that very same day. But the vengeance of heaven followed swift on the act, And before the next morning was seen By cholera morbus that tribe was attacked For, horrors, that Freshie was green.\

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE TRAITOR. For weeks the ragged remnant of the English expeditionary force had dragged it- self like a bruised snake over the jagged n1ountains and through the yawning ravines of the Iberian highlands. At last the blue waves of the Atlantic were singing the songs so dear to English hearts and the fleet lay ready to sail on the morrow. The masterly retreat was completed. Grenadier John Bristol paced wearily back and forth on sentinel duty before the tent of Sir John Moore. Inside was the commander's chair and table with candle and writing materials upon it. The sen- tinel stepped inside and dropped wearily into. the chair. Outside he could hear: \ * * the distant and random gun \That the foe was sullenly firing.\ * * * * The war was over; John and Mary Bris- tol were watching their little son play with his wooden soldiers. \J\{ake a head stone for this one, Daddy,\ said the boy. \I had him shoo ted 'cau~·e he went to sleep on duty.'' The father seized a sheet of paper and wrote a few words. * * * * From the heights behind Corunna, the enemy's artillery broke lose in sudden fury. A hail of shot and shell fell about the Brit-- ish headquarters. The gallant command- er was killed in the hour of triumph. In the gray dawn, his successor ca1ne to take away the official papers. Sprawling across the army table lay a grenadier with half his skull torn away by a piece of shell. Beside him lay· a freshly written sheet of paper: \A traitor. Shot for sleeping at his post.\ ''Th~ EARNESi Colleg1 clu~ abo Th Phone 12

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. vVe Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N.Y. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 WHITE, 229 State Street EARNEST MANDEVILLE, '17 NEAR BARNEY'S Collego Repreat\ntAtive · 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilities insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the n1ost reasonable here- abot1ts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ NoRMAN-the new ARROW COLLAR~ 4 -2 ro-v 'lS Ouett,. Peabody & Cainc.'lfa.kers. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing--all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 HEN IT RAINS IN A HtJRRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

,, ! ! I ' ' ·J ' \The Style Man.\ \Though man a thinking being is defined, Few use the grand prerogative of the mind; How few think justiy of the thinking few, How many never think, who think they do.\ What This Store Stands For Every transaction must be satisfactory to a customer. There will be no compromise, no quibbling-right or wrong, the customer is right. Each cus- tomer served must and will be thanked. The words must be said with court- esy and a sincerity, a ring of real truth and to the customer not at him. When a customer brings back a parcel and says the contents are not satisfactory we hand out the purchase price promptly and willingly as you do when you buy it. We are proud of our sales force; every salesn1an is proud of our store. We have no clerks, but real sales1nen filled with \Houghton Enthusiasm,\ with high ambition to serve you better than you have ever been served. Salesmen vvho sell Houghton merchandise plus Houghton value, plus satis- faction. Gentlen1en, who will look you in the eyes with that unn1istakable look of integrity, who know that in presenting or selling to you an article in this store they are selling it strictly upon its merits. Best not next to best. And that the Houghton infallible guarantee stands back of every transaction large or small, like a great battleship, trimmed and ready for action and pro= . - tectlon. \LET THIS STORE BE YOUR STORE.\ DU HTD 455 STATE STREET THE STORE OF \SPECIALIZED SERVICE\ Schenectady ~ Art Press

t ~ . . · ,; (. ,1' ; t 1'1·· - \ ,., j ~. t ,..:.. t. . ; . e CONCORDIENSIS VOLUME 39 NUMBER 5 OCTOBER 21, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY : ~ ::= :·= il

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor ------------------------------------------~-----~---------------------------------- UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Veurae• leading to the degree of A.. B. Ct.ASSICA~ CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this· course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B -This course may be pur- sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. S. Courae leading to the degree ot Ph. B .. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC Cou:as~-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 8. Cour11e leading to the degree of B. S. SciitNTIPIC CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree ot B. E. GENERAL ENGINlERING CouRsE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EL:£CTRICAI, ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 1. Ooar•e• leatllng to graduate degreea. CouRSE U~ADING TO DEGREE or M. C. E.-This course of one yeat of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W Cou:as~ I,EADING TO DEGR:U oY M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSlt L£ADING To D!Git~E or PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. S. in E. E. or an equjvalent. For catalogues or other inf()rmation address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE--Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, lal>oratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full in forma- tion sent on application to: THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D., Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $II a. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON 1 Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full inf()rmation, address: ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 2 5o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits .Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CI-IAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace ---------------------- Fink's Pharmacy ollege Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ----------------------------------····· --·---·-·~-

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS out to Manley on the 40 yard line who was dropped savagely by Jenkins. Around left end went Cann for 12 yards. Neither Bernstein nor Erwig could gain through the line and ·Cann was ordered to try a field goal. The drop ·curled nicely be- tween the posts. · The first tally of the sea- son against Union was registered. The kick was from the 30 yard line. Union elected to receive the kick-off. Erwig' s offering was returned by Goff to the 40-yard line. Three times Union assail- ed the strong N.Y. U. defense but could not gain. Rosecrans punted. Cann received the ball and made a dozen yards. Erwig ripped off 45 yards around right end, evading every tackler till Goff downed him on Union's fifteen yard line. This was a won- derful run. An end-around play behind superb interference yielded four yards. Egan captured a short forward pass from Cann that put the pigskin on Union's three yard line. Two drives at center were re- pulsed but on the third Cann carried the ball over Union's goal line. Cann kicked the goal with ease. The period ended soon after. Union supporters could not believe that the team was beaten. The first quarter look- ed like a flash in the pan. The Garnet 1\ team had merely not started. But it did not start throughout the contest. Every at-- tempt to gain was frustrated by awkward passing, by signals miscued, by punts hur- ried through weakness in the line. Stoller, who played the first half, went through for several gains but was up against a harrl proposition. Anderson's bad foot slowed hin1 down, and upon Rosecrans fell the larg- er share of the offense. In the second quarter N. Y. U. once more threatened .Union's goal. Consistent play put the ball on Union's 10 yard line. Cann once more gained effectively, but a five yard penalty proved too much for the Violet to overcotne. In the thb·d quarter Roof took Stoller's place at fullback, and Girling went in for Anderson. With Rosecrans, these two men got together for the first time this season to forn1 the wonderful backfield that scored so often and readily last season. Again Union spirit rose but the veterans could not gain. Once Girling- got lose for a thirty-five yard run, a wide frenzied sweep around left end that brought the hearts into the throats of the crowd. Another run of 20 yards was his total for the afternoon. In punting he was hurried by the aggressiveness of N. Y. D.'s ends and fared badly. Roof was saved on account of his injured shoulder but gained when he carried the ball. In the final period a series of forward passes revived hope for Union. Cann, however, blocked several of these in clever fashion. In the last minute of play Goff sent off a long pass to Girling far down the field. The way was clear for. a touchdown should Girling have caught the ball and been able to beat the whistle which blew in1mediately. But the pass 'vas too far and Girling barely got his fingers on it. So ended a hard, good battle·. The line-up: N.Y. UNIVERSITY (10) UNION (0) VValdrnan ------------------------ ~oore Left end. VVilliams ----------------·------ Bowman Left tackle. Zin1n1erle ---~--~~-~========----===~ flay Left guard. House -------------------------- Gardner Center. Sokolower -----·-------------------- Price Right guard. Somers ------------------------- Jenkins Right tackle. Egan ---------------------------- ):oung Right end. 11anley ---------------------------- Goff Quarterback. Cat Erv Ber T dow stitt Tay man ing f Stoll Nasl Colu Line: peno B1 Sc 1\h feate< 19 to The g as Ha anyth lesquE excep1 tean1 and n( team, 1 tice in The1 as it w large a in the· \Vere f sophon sho-vved ous sul but the 111ade b Ree\TI Pass in contribt quart en

THE CONCORDIE'NSIS 11 . Cann --- .... ----------------------- Rosecrans Left halfback. 1919 (0) . Townsend 1918 (19) Osterhout Erwig --------------:------------- Anderson Right halfback. -------------------- Left end. Gloeckner -------------·-------- Schnitzlein Bernstein ------------------------- Stoller Fullback. Mosher Left tackle. Touchdown-Cann. Goal from touch- down-Cann. Goal from field-Cann. Sub- stitutes-(N ew York) Ols·wang for Manley, Tavlor for Bernstein, McCulloch for W aid- man; (Union) Moynihan for Moore, Girl- ing for Anderson, Avila for Young, Roof for Stoller, Hay for Bowman, Du Bois for Hay, Nash for Gardner. Referee-Ed Thorpe, of Columbia. Umpire-Crowley of Bowdoin. Linesman-Flanders, of Yale. Time of periods-Eleven minutes each. -------------------------- Fisher Left guard. t , n e man ------------------------ Hochuli Center. Green ---------------------------- Glenn Arany Right guard. ---------------------------- Reed Left Guard. Simmons ------------------------ Iteeves Right end. Beardsly ------------------------ Lester Quarterback. BURLESQUE STAGED ON HILL. Sophs Win First U nderclass Contest. 1\he sophomore football team easily de- feated the freshmen, Monday, by a score of 19 to 0, in the first game of a series of three. The game, considered as a game, was a farce as Hathaway was the only freshman to play anything resen1bling football; but as a bur- lesque on the great college sport it was an exceptional performance. The freshmen tean1 appeared to have the weight, speed, and nerve with which to build a fairly good team, but it also showed a great need of prac- tice in the rudiments of the game. There is little to say of the contest itself, as it was at all times a mere question of how large a score the sophomores would roll un in the time allowed. Beckett and Leste~ \Vere the stars of the game, but the entire sophomore team played in a manner that sho-vved the result of good. coaching. N umer- ous substitutions were made by both tean1s, but_ the game was not rough and few were n1ade because of injuries. Ree,Tes scored a t.ouchdown on a forward Pass in the first period. Gus Schni tzlein contributed two tnore in the second and third quarters. The line-up: Cary -------------------- Beckett (Capt.) Left halfback. Cassidy ------------------------- Palmer Right halfback. Hathaway (Capt.) ---------------- Matern Fu11back. Touchdowns-Reeves, Schnitzlein (2).. Go al-B eckett. Substitutions-Sophomores : Hoag for Glenn; Hyatt for Reed; Madden for Lester; McCauley for Beckett; Glenn for Schnitzlein ; Birdsalt for Fisher; Tell for McCauley. Freshmen : Rose for Gloeckner. Tin1e of quarters, six minutes. Referee, Story. Timekeeper, Dr. MacCotnber. Head linesman, Mudge. Score: Sophs -- ------------7 6 6 0-19 Frosh ------ --------0 0 0 0--- 0 NEW MEN FOR SWIMMING TEAM. In Jungueria, '19, Bennett, '19, Weeks, '17, and Rosenthal, '19, Captain Phil Mallen of the swimn1ing team has found good tna- terial for this year's squad. All four men are tank artists and will begin work with the veteraqs of the teatn after football season. Atnong the n1en who competed in meets last season and are still in college are Mallen, Reed, Bull, Eldred, Y ounie, and Calhoun.

r ! 12 THE ,CONCORDIENSIS A schedule for the team has not yet been cotnpleted, but several good meets will be arranged this season. PLANS FOR TENNIS TOURNAMENT COMPLETED. The rules governing the inter-fratern.i ty tennis matches are: 1. No varsity tennis player shall be al- lowed to be a contestant. 2. Each contest shall consist of three matches, two single and one double. 3. Teams shall be rated according to the greatest percentage of matches (not con- tests) won. 4:. Matches are to be played on courts mutually chosen by contestants. 5. Any other questions will be decided by the Interfraternity Conference. Each match counts one point ~nd a prize called the Interfraternity Trophy \''ill be awarded to the winning tean1. The frater- nities will be divided into two groups. The old fraternities constituting one group and the new fraternities the other. The win- ners in each group will play a contest for the championship. The schedule for the old fraternities is as follows: Kappa Alpha vs. Sigma Phi. Delta Phi vs. Psi Upsilon. Delta Upsilon vs. Chi Psi. Kappa Alpha vs. Chi Psi. Sigma Phi vs. Delta Phi. Psi Upsilon vs. Delta Upsilon. Kappa Alpha vs. Delta Upsilon. Sign1a Phi vs. Psi Upsilon. Delta Phi vs. Chi Psi. Kappa Alph·a vs. Psi Upsilon. Sigma Phi vs. Chi Psi. Delta Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. Kappa Alpha vs. Delta Phi. Sigma Phi vs. Delta Upsilon. Psi Upsilon vs. Chi Psi. The schedule for the new fraternities is: Alpha Delta Phi vs. Beta Theta Pi. Phi Delta Theta vs. Phi ·Gamma Delta. Pyramid Club vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Alpha Delta Phi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Delta Theta. Phi 'Gamma Delta vs. Pyramid Club. Alpha Delta Phi vs. Pyramid Club. Beta Theta Pi vs. Phi Gamma Delta. Phi Delt.a Theta vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Alpha Delta Phi vs. Phi Ga;mma Delta. Beta Theta Pi vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. Phi Delta Theta vs. Pyramid Club. Alpha Delta Phi vs. Phi Delta Theta. Beta Theta Pi vs. Pyramid Club. Phi Gamma Delta vs. Lambda Chi Alpha. VON HINDENBERG TO VISIT UNION ON NOVEMBER 6TH. This year the freshman \Pee-rade\ is go- ing to be the best ever. Two members, Kirkup and Miller have been added to the committee, which now consists of Lough- lin, chairman, Gilbert, Kirkup, Miller and Morison. The \pee-rade\ will occur on N ovetnber 6th. Arrangements are progressing splendidly. Over half the tax on the student body has been paid to Loughlin already. The com- mittee wishes to urge those men who have not paid to do so immediately and thus help to produce the best \pee-rade \ever seen at Union. The performance this year is going to be spectacular. Many floats will appear to- gether with other novel features. General \Ton Hindenberg is going to be present to capture the athletic field by a series of won- derful manoeuvres. There will be a prac~ tical demonstration of two methods of get- ting through college. Come and see it: it might help you. President Wilson is going to have his honeymoon that afternoon. It will be good. Even the Press Club is going to appear. It has been decided that the Terrace Council will act as censor of the \pee-rade\ this year. .i .{ :t i f PR1 D· Uni< Eios: whil War~ wen1 then: hand thet seve1 was foun< \V; c. w Sche1 enter havin last ) ditior cover \Pl Interc \Tr. Storie Concc T. Hi An ef cordy newsy along about porter. ing th The . nnpro' should would of the the sto be bric pressio be sta1 . tng we:

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 PRE-MEDIC AC,CIDENTALLY SHOT. Duncan C. Ward, a former student at Union lies in a critical condition at the Ellis Eiospital as the result of accidental shooting while in Charlton Saturday afternoon. Ward, accompanied by Wellington E. Moore, went to Charlton to visit a relative and while there, engaged in target practice. As Moore handed the gun to Ward, it went off, and thet 22-calibre bullet entered Ward's neck, severing the spinal cord. The injured man was quickly brought to the city, and it was found that paralysis of the body had set in. \V ard is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Duncan C. Ward of this city. He is a graduate of the Schenectady High School and planned to enter the Albany Medical College this fall, having taken a pre-medic course at Union last year. Although he is in a critical con- dition, many hopes are expressed for his re- covery. \PETE\ HILL INSPIRES QUILL DRIVERS. Interesting Lecture on Technique of News Writing, by Editor of Gazette. \The Technique of Writing Newspaper Stories\ was the subject of the talk given to Concordy Board Monday evening by Philip T. Hill, editor of the Schenectady Gazette. An effort is being made to make the Con- cordy a regular newspaper with snappy, newsy articles and this talk was the first step along that line. C(Pete\ gave a detailed talk about the various rules governing the re- porters in writing news articles and concern- ing the fundamentals of newspaper work. The main suggestions which were given to itnprove the paper were that every reporter should develop a style of his own which would be in keeping with the general style of the paper, that every article should have the story in the lead, that all articles should be brief and concise and that certain ex- pressions, which are used continually should be standardized. After the talk the meet- ing was opened for discussion. CHANGE IN DATE OF SOIREE. The Sophomore Soiree will be staged this year on Decem her 3 rather than in Junior Week. This change was considered advis- able by the Terrace Council owing to the poor support granted the second year men's dance last Junior Week. The motion wa~ presented at campus meeting Monday noon by Nat Finch and was passed by the student body. PYRAMID CLUB SMOKER. 1:'he annual fall term freshman smoker of the Pyratnid Club was held Friday evening, October 15, 1915. Dr. Barnes, Prof. Upson, Mr. Salathe, Mr. Lee and Mr. Parker were guests~ A LYRIC. Though the golden moon is beaming, And the lake is gleaming, gleaming, Still the night is not for me, Oh, not for me. Though the air is sweetly laden With the song of lad and maiden, And made holy with soft laughter And love's silence coming after, Still the night's but passing beauty- No more, no more. For my own love lies a-sleeping Where the myrtle's creeping, creeping 0' er a shaded marble stone, And I'm alone. TENNIS. A net, a maid, The sun above. Two sets we played, Result-Two love. Again we played, This time she won. I won the maid. Result-Two one.-Ex.

14 'THE CONCORDIENSIS~ THE CONCORD lEN SIS A Literary and News Weekly Publi~Shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a'S Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR 1 ames B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE FOOTBALL SITUATION. Well what do you think about it? Pretty tough isn't it? Who do you consider to blame for it? Do you think Captain Jenkins got scared out when he saw the N. Y. U. crowd and the style of football they were prepared to deliver? Possibly Coach Dawson was tak- ing a vacation last week and thought the team could bluff it along somehow without him? No? Or perhaps the team forgot last year's record and didn't care whether they made a clean score this year or not? You hardly believe so? Well where WAS the trouble then? Did you ever see a lot of big, husky loaf- ers who were too lazy to work and too in- different to play and wouldn't eat or sleep if they could get some one else to do it for them? Yes? Where? Do you, Mr. Union Student, want to see this college win the next four games or lose them-or don't you care which happens so long as it don't cause you any exertion? If you do care how are you going to help them do it? What are you going to do about it and when are you going to begin doing it? If you don't care, WHY DON'T YOU? DON'T LOSE HOPE NOW. There are a number of men in college who will be weeded out by the end of the first semester or compelled to drop back a class or else take on a condition or so. We personally could not mention many such men by name, but we know that we are cor- rect in what we say because conditions have· always been such. The year, however, is still young yet and there is hope for the poorest student in college, if he only does not give up hope himself. Just now after college has been running for about a month is a good time to take a few minutes off to take stock of yourselves. What are your chances. of staying the four years out? If they do not look very promis- ing, what do you consider the trouble to be? It certainly is not a faulty intellect or you would never have gotten in here. The trouble lies elsewhere-either you are trying to do too many other things or else you are wasting your time in some way. \tVhatever your activities, re1nen~ber that your college work comes first and that the best way to stay in the activities of your choice is to sta~ in college. Many a man has undertaken to do too much and hating to let loose of a few things has held on too long and been con1pelled to let loose of them all. but are not the we Just . potn that sche: the v facul ad vi< pleas to th ment Pate} ear lie later \Vher befon you ~ Ho1 tas1es way y to litt And h to ma l'I\t'E ER Yale N Wor: iai buil cording tneetin~ College office. of delay of the ~

all. This looks very foolish in another n1an, but nevertheless is jqst the thing that we are all apt to do merely because we have not the faculty of examining ourselves with the same keenness of criticism with which we are in the habit of observing others. Just here is where we want to make our point. If you have any reason to suspect that your work is not up to par, try this scheme for examining yourself-talk over the whole situation with your chum or some faculty member and follow the other man's advice for once. Make some sacrifices of pleasure, if necessary. Cut out a few trips to the theatre or a few unprofitable argu- ments or conversations with the fellows. Patch up all the little leaks. Get up a little earlier in the morning and sit up a little bit later at night. Make the minutes count. When you start to do some work, finish it up before you go to something else-and when you work, work intensively. 15 'fho1nas B. Lockwood of Buffalo, a grad- uate of Yale in the class of Dr. Kellogg of the Latin department here, was elected a trustee of Union College to succeed the late G. Har- wood Dudley of Johnstown. Mr. Lock- wood's father was a distinguished alumnus of this institution and an eminent public man of his day. Mr. Lockwood has shown great interest in his father's Alma Mater and is the donor of the Erie County scholarship which he has endowed with a fund of $10,000. I-Iis election to the board of trustees is timely and auspicious. Resolutions of sympathy and bereavement were passed by the trustees respecting the death of Mr. Dudley who was for many years active as a trustee of the college. A further gift of $500 from Mrs. Daniel S .. Lamont was announced as well as a dona- tion of $2,000 from Dr. Robert Fuller, '63, of Schenectady, to be used for the purchase of books for the chemistry department here. Eight cases of books on Indian life were re- ceived by the trustees for the college fro1n Col. John Van Rensselaer Hoff, LL. D., '71, of Washington, D. C. Mrs. Lamont's gift which follows several generous donations is to be added to the fund for needy students. However it may sound, this is really the easiest way to do your work. If you do this way you will soon be in position to attend to little outside activities without worry. And best of all you will be what Union wants to make you-a SELF-RELIANT, POSI- l'I\t'E MAN. NED MOORE AS A WAR-BABY. A Union Man's Experiences at Plattsburg. To the Editor of The Concordiensis: Dear Sir: In response to your request I am writing you about the Business and Pro- fessional Mens' Military Training Camp which was held at Plattsburg this summer. Such instruction camps have been conduct- ed in various localities before, and by of- ficers of the regular army detailed by the \i\1 ar Department, but have been primarily for coiiege students. This year, however, a smaii group of business men decided that they would like to partake of similar instruc- tion and after enlisting the hearty support of General Wood got the thing under way, mainly through the alumni associations of ERECTION OF BUTTERFIELD BUILDING DELAYED. Yale Man Elected Trustee of Union College. New Gifts. Work on the $100,000 Butterfield Memor- ial building will not begin until spring, ac- cording to the announcement n1ade at a meeting of the Board of Trustees of Union College Saturday, in President Richmond's office. Alterations iri the plans is the cause of delay. The building will be situated north of the electrical laboratory.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. various colleges. There were no qualifica- tions as to membership, however, except that it was stated that it was hoped that men in their thirties would be atttracted by the idea As a result, about 1,200 men from different walks of life turned up at the camp, the average age of the members being ~bQut thirty-five. The camps from now on are to be a permanent institution, since an organ- ization has been formed from members of this year's camp to perpetuate them. The obvious idea is to train men in an intensive course of one month in military matter so that they may be that much better prepared to serve their country in time of need than if they had never received any military in- struction at all. Four or five camps for busi- ness men will probably be established next year, and will be distributed throughout the country so that n1.any more men will be able to go. These will be in addition to the college camps. The average expense per 1nan while at camp was between $40 and $4:5; this in- cluded the cost of the entire uniform, board, and all camp expenses. Railroad fare and personal expenditures of course varied wide- ly. Having bought our uniform, enrolled, and paid the required deposit of $30, we were assigned to co1npanies, and the training be- gan. We were given the Manual of Arms, close- order drill, extended -order drill, instruction in the use and care of the rifle and equip- ment, and a record course in range shoot- ing. After this preliminary training the last nine days were spent on a practice n1arch, or \hike during which tim.e we n1arched 90 miles with fighting every day. Four thousand regular troops operated with and against us, thus making it as much like actual field conditions as possible. While on duty we were under military discipline, and that was, roughly speaking, from 5 :45 A. M. to 7 :15 P. M. With permission, though, one could get out in the evening and on Sundays but most of the men were only too glad to roll i_n about nine o'clock every night. I would like to tell you of the experiences we had, both general and personal, but it vvould take up so much space before I got half through that I shall not attempt it. Most everyone has seen pictures of, and read about the camp, but if you want a more in- timate knowledge of the life itself, read Richard Harding Davis's article in Collier·s of October 9th. The places where he touches on his personal experiences are very am us- ing, because everyone felt the same way at one time or another. I have, also, a number of pictures which I should be very glad to show to any of the fellows who would like to see them. I hope that a large number of Union men will attend one or another of these camps next year and have the college well repre- sented. The whole experience is well worth getting, in addition to the benefits derived frotn a month's healthy outdoor life. As far as I am concerned I hope to be able to at- tend a good many more years, for there is al- ways lots more to learn, and there are a great many of the men who were up there who feel the same way. Yours truly, EDMUND W. MOORE. At time of going to press, Duncan Ward was reported as having had an operation and having passed a good night. EDITORIAL. \Ve Want Some Songs. No songs have yet been written to glorify the present football season. The Union gan1e is cotning. Composers get busy! The titne is short.-Han1ilton Life. Ohio Wesleyan has organized a Prohibi- tion League and are planning big things in their fight against intemperance. Good work for any college. If t 'Ti! Wi- An< I lo .t\s Anc \Vh If tl Tl wheJ outsi eatin 'pho1 and writ<: \H stngs We one it the si

THE ~cONCORDIENSIS 17 01\ WE OWN A CAR, WE DO! If there's aught so rare as a day in June, 'Tis an hour in Mandeville-Gilbert's Ty- phoon, With solemn dog Red walking calmly ahead And the breeze wafting in o'er the back of one's head. I love the sensations that creep up the spine . A.s she edges up hills in her music divine, And sneezes and gurgles with infinite glee \Vhen she leaps 'neath the gas like a terrified flea. Ah-h-h! (with deep feeling) If there's aught can compare with a bright day in June, 'ffis an hour in lV1andevi1le-Gilbert' s Ty- phoon. The story has gone about that one noon, when the Typhoon was waiting patiently outside the house while its masters were eating dinner, our sharp-eyed Mr. Dewey 'phoned over with much choler in his voice and den1anded that \they take that type- writer off the grass instantly!\ It will be taken for a cigar-clip next. WAGS THEY DON'T MEAN. \He put on a pair of rubber boots on,\ s1ngs one of Proctor's star attractions. We expectantly look each day to see son1e- one in the bathtub which rests invitingly on the sidewalk before a Union Street store. A HOMELY ARGUMENT. \Back to the kitchen, you suffragettes !\ Is the howl of the anti-suff. \vV e never have left them, you anti-suffs !'' Shout the pros in immediate huff. And the poor neutral bystander, watching it all - ' Calls out from back in the lee, \Y o·u never have left them, you suffragettes, For you never have been there, you see!\ Translating the good, old English into a foreign language always seemed to us somewhat akin to hanging a picture in a dark corner-you know it's there, but you can only see it in a faint, unsatisfying sort of way. We never were so strikingly shown what it does look like on the other side of the fence than when we attempted to go over and bring some of it back the other day . Secure in our mighty grasp of the musical French, we had just translated for an anti- French Frenchman the following sentence: \.About noon, as I was riding near the track, so as to see the horse-races at better advant- age, I was suddenly overtaken by one of our servants, who had been looking for me, he said, for over half an hour.\ The anti- French one regarded the finished product skeptically and said, \Don't look right to me. Bring it back to English again.\ \Ve con- fidently did so. This is the wonderful sen- tence that came back from the outer dark- ness: \'ro the middle of the day, as I gal- loped on the border of the hippodrome for to follow the 1nore near the revolutions of the contest, I was rejoined all at blow by one of our domestics, who me was seeking, me told he, since more of one half hour!'' And we never translated any more prose. HAFIZ WAGS AGAIN. Dear Nite: If R. Tremendous H. should write a poem, would it be safe to say it was in the Ian1it Pentan1eter? HAFIZ.

18 'f'HE CONCORDIENSIS SMASHING THE FO'OTLIGH'TS. Pointing to the portrait of a bewhiskered gen- tlemen, May Irwin wags, \Oh .see the boy with the hanging gardens!\ VAN-The whiff of a magic perfum~e even .. tuates in the \Something Seems Tingle-ingle-ing\ melody, and there you have \High Jinks.\ A mix- ing of wives and fiancees with a few rnisdi_r~cted kisse·s and few spots of good comedy ·make this T. B. M. show hardly better than the ordinary. The company was fair, but did not seem to get over-interested in their work until it was half over with. Efferveseen t May Irwin was the high light in a very drab week. May rolls out of the wings whenever she pleases, picks up the thread of con- versation, and up goes the balloon of seriousness with all the audience aboard. She has worthy osup- port in one Leonard Hollister, who makes a beau- tifully absttrd clergyman in one instant and a very quick-witted crook in another. ~The remainder of the cast was no better than should be expected. I'I'he American Belles were terrible. They reach- ed the low-water mark in the very ordinary burlycues we are enduring. Homely ladies, color- less ~Singing, and sad comedy. May the Belles never return. MUDRA WK-Crane-Shiriey compres·sed Three Weeks into One Day without any noticeable suc- ces\S. We expected to bid auf wiedersehn to Crane- Shirley this week-end, but we see they are still voici tres bien. PROCTOR'S-As ever. Still viscid to the old rut. The Phillippi Four harmonized for the first half head-liner; would we could have fillipp ed them into the nearby canal. For the last-half, a rotund Irisher rolled out and, in a colorless sort of way, told a few wags that were good. The Dream Pirates could hardly hope to be much bet- ter than a bad dream, though they head-lined. Their maids were too old=maidish, but they boast- ed a diminutive who was quite efficient in the knack of eccentric dancing. We shall not often pauoSe to stnash the movie camera, but we c~n't resist a good wallop at \The College Widow,'~ a multi-reel feature at Proc- tor's, Saturday. We have seen many good pro- ductions from the Lubin camera and had always held them in high esteem until we saw this wierd fillum. Being a feature, it is evidently supposed to present a rea\Sonably true picture of college life, but, if there were any embryonic collegers in the audience, or any parents of the same, this awful exhibition must have effectually given the college idea an ·ever-lasting quietus. It dwelt un~ remittantly on just such features of college life as are tabooed above all else, and wove them into the story as purely a matter of course. ''You n1ust get more material for the line,\ urges the 'varsity trainer in the opening s oene after jumping on the rub-down table and leading the immaculate squad in a college yell. Whereupon, the coach, clad to the ears in an enormous sweater, though everyone else was wearing straw hats, sauntered down main street to a factory-alia!S the G. E. works-and non-concernedly signed up a forty year old coal heaver. \Football players don't have to study- you'll get through all right,\ explains the coach in a following 'sub-title. Later, on the eve of the Big Game, we are shown the 'varsity dressing room. The coach struts in with a letter from an alumnus of the rival college which be~Seeches the I covering of a $1,000 bet. The coach leads another cheer, tosses his checked cap on a chair, and in- stantly follows a rain of money to cover the challenging bet. And the heroic halfback sets off another wild cheer when he grandly flourishes the final ten-spot in to the cap! The intimate views of college life, in wbich silver-haired ''boys\ stroll about the campus with hats turned up in front and footballs tudced under their arms, nicely backgrounds the nauseating picture. T'he only redeeming feature of this Lubin mess was when the proprietor of the college restau- rant, alias Joe T., refused one gentleman another crumb until such time as he should see fit to settle his out-standing bill. SMASHING THEM EARLY. Julian Eltinge, appearing at the Van in \Cousin Lucy,\ Tuesday night, is a fairly good comedy with one or two excellent song'S. Claiborne Foster outshines Venus, and Marie Chambers runs a close second. Dallas Welford, in character· role, will be liked. Monday night's college and city talent departure will at least serve the pttrpose of demonostrating whether or not we should rejuvenate dramatics. No, we don't attend these shows on press passes. To be frank, we are usually seated up in the Last Resort. Perhaps that's why we get such lofty ideas. TOO BAD. Now we Cann't clean our football slate. SI T: says the wee] For 1 Buy But~ And Isn \W be no We Jtalia: \Vach In] Paris Dea who : footba Sunda Gordo him t• race s uous excha1 gan1e Well a writin: •

0 y d 0 e THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 SHAKESPEAREAN ADVERTISING. This wonderful advertisement, which es- savs to sell suits to men, broke glaringly into th~ Schenectady Gazette one morning last week: Stare Facts in the Face. Not what you earn, but what's SAVED wins the race. Why should you pay the Travelling Man's fee- His hotel bill ! railroad fare ! ! Salary!!! Gee!!! For the love of Mike-now listen to reason- Buy a new suit each season. But Geeminee! don't buy the same suit pre- . else- And pay some shrewd guy, two or three times the price. That's all- and more is Too much. Isn't it beautiful? ECONOMICAL ENGLISH. \Write out your questions so there won't be no hesitancy,\ economizes Prof. Hill. We admire the studied neutrality of the Italian gentleman who hand-organed \Die 'vVacht am Rhine\ under our window. In Re: J. G. B.'s New York edition of the Paris Herald: Dear Nite: The abortive Horace G-reeley who manipulated the N. Y. D.-Union football story in the New York Herald last Sunday has missed his vocation. James Gordon Bennett's hired men could well use him to tout the winners at Saratoga next race season. His ebullient glee and ingen- uous hysteria in connection with alleged exchange of coin of the realm during the gan1e Saturday solicits our sympathetic as Well as psychopathic interest-but it isn't Writing a football story. We are of the im- pression that neither N. Y. U. or Union in- cludes courses for bookies and betting-ring rats in its curriculum. At any rate the young man might rival \Tip\ in casting sure fire horoscopes for the sporting sporting page of the only jerk-water sheet in the metropolis. But we do wonder how that blurb could get by any copy desk. HAFIZ. We strongly supplement this contrib. In- tercoUegiate athletics, according to this very bad story of the Herald's, is on a similar plane to that picture in Proctor's Saturday movie, which we mention elsewhere in the colyumn. \-two hundred rooters bet every- thing but their car fare back home that they would win.\ \-saved many a dollar for the N.Y. U. men who had bet they would win.'\ \-and they dug up a few more dollars to say that their team would win.\ These are ex- cerpts from the story, and in this vein the entire story runs. We do not pretend to be- lieve that there is no betting at college games, but we do believe it has reached no such deplorable state as this story would lead the reader to think. It is clearly the duty of newspapers who profess to interest them- selves in the college athletics to shun allu- sions to what little betting they see carried on rather than magnify it to an absurdity. Also, we do not mind having it clearly stated that our team played poor football, but we object to the unsportsmanlike way the Her- ald expressed it. The Herald sporting editor might very well try to emulate his contemporaries on the Times and Tribune. After these cranial convolutions we will return to our natural state. If Edward Everett Hale should ask What might a \quarto\ be, Some waggery stu de should promptly say, \Two pintos, seems to me!\

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. F-i-n-a-n-t-i-a-1 is they way Charley Wald-- ron spells that difficulty that makes us pre- maturely grey. \Sailing 'cross the terrace, on the good ship Dicky Wade!'\' sing the wayward col- lege wags. Once there was a time when we hesitated to hang the trousers of our other suit wrong side up for fear loose quarters and dimes would roll out on the floor. But that day has passed. ORIGINALITY-HAVE THE INVES- TIGATION FIRST. The shoring and skeleton timbers of the new Union Street subway are obviously weak and insecure. Shall we continue to walk placidly back and forth over this hid- den death until a third cave-in occurs ? Did you keep in mind our prediction on the third world series game? From the Smart Set : In the game of love the man is the board, the chessmen and the stake. Yes, and son1ewhat of a check-mate, too. NITE. \vVhich side of the house,\ said Clancy, ''Do yez think that the kid looks like?\ Finnegan did the fancy By answering thus wise : \Mike \~Tid all respect to you, his dad, An' as much to your illigant sp,ouse, It niver occurred to me, be gad, That he lookeci like the side of a house.\ He (to his fiancee of last summer)- \Then you don't love 1ne any n1ore.\ She (sarcastically )-\Not exactly that. It's just that I don't love you any less.\ TH.E OLD MASTER. 'Tis night as I sit in my chamber With sleepless eyes cast to the floor; Beside me the wavering firelight Throws tremulous shapes on the door. Through my window of lattice and ivy, Con1es the sound of the laboring sea, And its sorrowful note of complaining Wakes a feeling of sadness in me. In an arm that is feeble and worthless, In an arm that is furrowed and thin, I cradle my dearest of treasures, l\fy one friend, my old violin. On my shoulder I gently caress it, And take up my light-bounding bow,- But the note has no delicate beauty, My hand is too aged and slow. And I weep bitterly in the silence, While the throbbing flames mockingly . gnn; For the joys of my life are all buried, Are lost in my old violin! And the wind as it passes my window Murmurs back through the night leaves above, \Oh the sweet melodies that you weep for Lie buried with all that you love. For nothing of earth lasts forever; All dies as I die on the sea; But weep not for joy that is over; Have faith; there is joy still to be.\ Then my eyes seek the wavering firelight, Where new molded hopes brightly flare; My melodies must be in Heaven; I can gain them by patience and prayer. A \no deal\ agreement for College elec- tions could not command the necessary four-fifths vote to pass at Wesleyan last week. Only 20 n1en supported it. E Ph or

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. We Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch \Voolens. 38 THIRD STREET, 'TROY, N.Y. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 ColleQe Reprewentati•e NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilities insure our patrons the broadest, n1ost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the n1ost reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street .,Look for the Cow's Head\ NoRMAN -the new ARROW COLLAR.c f ~ rov~s Cluett\ Peabody & Cainc.'Makws CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Three Rousing Cheers THAT'S THE SPIRIT-THE FEELING YOU WILL HAVE-whenever you look at yourself in our reflecting mirrors and see yourself as others see you. The reflection will impress you as yo11r best photograph shows yourself as you actually are. The reflection of style created for you by the House of Houghton-the feeling of pride that your garments carries-the brand of distinction different-and individuality. We ask you-can any other store show you 26 models in sack suits and nearly as many in overcoats? You will say, as others have-\The Houghton creations are the things of tomorrow rather than of yesterday. New additions to our vast assortment constantly being placed on display. The range of prices is just vvhere you want them. HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store of \Specialized Service.\ •.a '\ WJA-4 MlllX MW!lJliB A 4 AO OEIEI!F.J!$IIQ4'4011bJUiJ1&SUW - -- Schenectady ~ Art Press - ~- -

I I VOLUME 39 NUMBER 6 OCTOBER 28, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate ~.nd graduate courses : 1. Cour•e• leading to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSlt A.--Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B- This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. Oour•e leadln&' to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-ScntNTr:trc CouRSE-This course offers Latin without ·Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 8. Vour•e leading to the degree of B. S. Sci~tNTI:tiC Cou:as~t- This course is based upon the study of mathen1atics and the sciences. 4. Vonr•e leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRsE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Couas£- This course is intended ·to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. I. Voar•e• lea.ln.g to graduate degree•. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE or. M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. v. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE t,~A\DING TO DEGRU OJ M. S. in E. E.-This course of one year of graduate. stQdy consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Couas£ LEADING To DEGREE OF Pu. Do- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of ~1. S. in E. E. or an equjvalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BAiNS:S, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: THOMAS ORDWAY. M. D .. Dean, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY L.A W SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. it three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $xo; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: }OHN C. WATSON 1 Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHAI<.MACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PI-IARMi\CY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. H UESTF.D, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEAr.JING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Aero&& from College Gate CI-Ift .... S COO PER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate - - VOl U1 Ur. Satu1 gan1e ~spec Todd fensi' . ~ holdi1 ' ' l ; ~oba ·l . f pet. G down: ters r goals. l\ The merge • mg we that e Upon 1 were 1 the en part o] within ! ing re1 $hifty 1 througl Rose or; he has a.nd Av an exec: the gan famous Was un

s f , I I The Concordiensis VOL. 39 OCTOBER 28, 1915 NO.6 UNION DEFEATS STEVENS 21-0. Union resumed its victorious advance Saturday by defeating Stevens in a peppery gan1e 21-0. Girting and Rosecrans shone ~specially for .Union, while Deghue and Todd played well on both offensive and de- fensive fot Stevens. Severe penalties for 1 holding, undoubtedly due to over-eagerness, ' p~obab ly lost two touchdowns for the Gar- .\ I flet. Goff, Girling and Rosecrans made touch ... l ~owns in the second, third and fourth quar- ters respectively. Tubby kicked the three goals. l · The varsity see1ned to have con1pletely em ... merged from its sluggishness of the preced- ing week, and played with a jump and snap that eventually showed its wearing effect upon their opponents. The Garnet players were han1mering Stevens, line or circling the ends for material gains during a major part of the game, while the ball was never within Union's danger zone. \Wally\ Girl- ' lng returned to his old self in many swift, ~hifty trips around the outskirts of play and through btoken . scrimmage. \Tub by'' Roseorans continued the sterling game that he has played all season, while Moynihan a.nd Avila, on the el}ds, showed that they are an excellent combination. Stoller started the game at fullback and madeseveral of his famous playing gains through the line, but Was unfortunately injured in one of the$·e well along in the second period and gave way to Dow Roof, who, though hardly recov- ered from his lame shoulder, ably took up Stoll's work. Goff, at quarter, used his usual good generalship. Stoller's kick-of£ went out of bounds on the 30-yard line, but his second t1ry sent the ball to Marshall on the 15-yard mark. After Stevens had pushed for six yards in two downs, \Wally\ Girting spilled Deghue ten yards behind the line, and shortly after vVebb kicked to Rosecrans who was downed at the 50-yard post. A punting tryst then developed, the ball being well over in Stev- ens' territory throughout. The period end- ed with Union on the offensive at 32 yards. Jenks made first down to begin the second period, but the referee carried the ball 15 paces back to the 45-yard line. After a short see-sawing, the Garnet set out in quest o£ its first touchdown. Stoller ripped through £or four yards, succumbing about twenty paces from the goal, and \Wally\ Girting sped away from his opponents for 20 yards. Two subsequent trys by Stoll and one by Jenks helped things slightly. Then Goff filtered through an opening for touchdown. Rose- crans kicked the goal. On kick-of£, Go££ advanced across three lines before being brought to earth. Stoller then wrenched his elbow in plunging through the line and Dow Roof came to take his place.

10 THE CONCORDIENSffi For some time the ball shuttled back and forth well down in Stevens' terri tory with several penalties and unsuccessful forward passes giving both teams chance to try out their offensive. Finally, with a long trun by Girling and short gains by Dow Roof and Hay, the Garnet seen1ed to have gotten into the swing of another successful march to the goal, but the whistle cut down thei'r as~ pirations when they had reached mid-field. Webb commenced the second half by arching the ball to Jenkins, who promptly advanced some ten yards with it. Middle- ton nipped Hay's hopes in the bud. Dow Roof plowed ahead three yards, a forward pass went awry, and Girting kicked to Todd. The latter advanced 20 yards before giving in, and Marshall and Webb reeled off first down. Tubby then broke through and drop- ped the former for a 10 yard loss. Another first down was beyond Stevens, and Webb assayed to kick. 'fubby caught the ball nicely and, after advancing it 15 yards, aided Girling in making down. Goff heaved a suc- cessful pass to Roof, who planted his burden about 35 paces from the Stevens goal. 4L\nother forward pass, this tin1e to Girling, followed by a 30 yard run brought hostili- ties up to within 2 yards of the coveted line. Hopkins sneaked through sotnewhere and clowned Goff in his tracks on the next play, but VV ally swooped around left end on the following play and scored handily. He kick- ed the goal. Webb booted to Goff, who charged down the field behind a wall of interference and stopped exactly mid-field. Jenks and Tubby pushed ahead seven yards, but a pass went astray and Stevens took the offensive only to lose it when Rosecrans thieved a forvvard pass and reeled off 15 yaJrds in the opposite direction. Girling then sped away for 20 yards, ·being headed off about 13 yards from the goal-posts. A fifteen yard penalty for holding, three unsuccessful passes and a n1isguided kick by Tubby g-ave the ball to Stevens for a change. Avila promptly jump- ed in and threw Hoinkis fonr yards to the bad and the quarter terminated with Stev- ens attacking with the ball on her 30 yard Hne. Stevens started the last quarter with a sturdy attetnpt to stave off defeat and, aid- ed by a penalty, pushed forward to within 30 yards of their destination, when they fumbled and saw their last chance to score slip away. Union's third parade down-field commenced. Wally and Tubby shared honors for first down, after which Girling sped forward for 12 yards and another down. Jenks plowed over three more, a pass proved futile, and Rosecrans registered the third down. A successful pass, Goff to Tubby, and advances by Anderson and Goff netted still another down, but the latter attempted to crawl with the ball and the referee brought it back 20 paces. Goff was dropped for a ten yard loss and Girting kicked to Todd who was overcome only after filtering back twen- ty-five yards. Stevens' last gasp brought them to mid-field where the alert Tubby stole in ahead of a forward pass and streaked 50 yards down-field for the third and final touchdown. An off-side penal i:y was called during this play, Captain Jenkins naturally electing to take the gain n1ade rather than the free advance. Tubby kicked his goal. With less than two minutes to play, the teatns loitered about the field well away from danger to either side and the game ended with Stevens on the offensive upon the 40 yard line. The line-up : UNION. STEENS Moynihan ----------------- _____ Hopkins Left end. Hay -------------------------- __ Gennest Left tackle. Gardner ------------------- ________ Oldis Left guard. Jackson -----------------------Middleton Center. Dub Jenk AviL Goff Girli: Rose Unio Stev( To crans . tng, Moy1 Roof. for JV Mars Mac I vVilli 'rime Th~ frater many ing t] alum1 Alex<: '72. l ' '7 5; j '79; J M.GJ Allisc '87; c F. L. H. D. Sawy Stron

'rHE CONCORDIENSIS Dubois -------------------------------- l\1oller Right guard. Jenkins -----------------·-------- Grymes Right tackle. Avila------------------·---------- Hoinkis Right end. Goff ------------------------------ Todd Quarterback. Girling -------------------------- Marshall Left halfback. Rosecrans ----------------------- Deghue Right halfback. Stoller ---------------------------- Wood ullback. SCORE BY PERIODS. Union _____________ o 'l Stevens ___________ o 0 SUMMARY. '( 0 7-21 0- 0 Touchdowns-Girling, 1 ; Goff, 1 ; Rose- crans, 1. Goals kicked-Rosecrans, 2; Girl- ing, 1. Substitutions-Union: Moore for Moynihan, Roof for Stoller, Anderson for Roof, Bowman for Hay. Stevens: Nevins for Middleton, Mush for Honkis, Peters for Marshall, Ford for Gennest. Referee, Mr. MacDonald, Brown. Umpire, Mr. Draper, vVillian1s. Head linesman, Mr. Carter. Time of periods, 12 minutes each. GRADS FLOCK TO HILL. The Stevens game along with various fraternity initiations and dances brought many familiar faces back to the campus dur,.. ing the past week-end. The out of town alumni who paid us a visit are: Dr. George Alexander, '66; G. H. Fox, '67; W. J. Kline, '72; W. P. Rudd, '73; Lewis Oppenhei1n, '75; A. V. V. Raymond, ''(5; W. P. Adams, '79; J. D. Craig, '80; S. P. McClellan, '81; S. M. Griswold, '72; J. W. McCauley, '83; G. F. Allison, '84; W. B. Reed, '86; A. L. Bennett, '87; C. W. Blessing, '88; T. B. Richards, '88; F. L. Comstock, '90; W. S. Cassedy, '91; G. H. Daley, '92; 0. C. Richards, '95; W. L. Sawyer, '95 ; L. C. Baker, '95 ; ~1. H. Strong, '96; A. Derby, '96; L. I<. Deven- dorf, '97; E. W. Sylvester, '99; J. N. Vander- veer, '99; H. J. Hinman, '99; J. E. Sawyer, 99; G. C. Foote, '99 ; C. H. MacCulloch, '00; W. D. Hodgson, '01; D. W. Weed, '03; E. V. Mullenveax, '04; E. T. King, '05; P. L. Classen, '06; A. G. Chapman, '06; W. B. Col- burn, '07; M. K. H uppuck, '08; A. M. Bow- man, '08; H. T. Hildreth, '08; Craig Thorn, '09; Frank Smith, '12; Tris Coffin, '11; 0. J. Parks, '12; C. T. Mapes, '12; J. E. Riley, '12; V. R. Tremper, '12; Ray Shepard, '12 ; Charles Helm, '13; A. C. Meneely, '14; R. H. Coons, '14; C. A. Kenworthy, '14; F. D. Barclay, ,14; George Abbot, '14; R. Van Santvoord, '14; L. C. Case, '14; P. C. Cleve- land, '15; H. Z. Persons, '15; 'fhomas Dent, '15; E. P. Culver, '15; H. L. Woods, '15; W. C. McMichael, '15. REVIVE DRAMATICS? Strong Support Needed if Play is Staged. Thus far this year dramatics here have been at a standstill. The only reason for this fact lies in the poor support given to the activity in previous years. While the plays presented by the Dramatic Club have been successful from a literary point of view, they were repeatedly financial failures. The an1ount received for tickets did not go half way towards paying the expenses of the hall and coach. Therefore, there is n1uch hesi- tation before risking another loss. It is thought by the ntanagement that the Dramatic Club ought to have a fund such as the Musical Clubs now have, which would insure the_ financial support of the activit\tl. Consideration has also been given the possi- bility of selling tickets far in advance to s~e how much expense might be undertaken. At any rate, son1e new system must be adopted. and if the student body wants a play this year, hearty support must be given. . President Frank J. Goodnow, of John Hop- kin's University in a recent speech to the student body favored military training

,) ; I ! ' I i ' I I I ! 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. A MORAL WRECK FROM THE POLYTECH. Also ''Hose That I Have Handled'' and Other Caricatures in Ninteen's Pee-rade. Plans for the freshman \Pee-rade\ are get- ting bigger and better every day. The com- mittee is showing ·au kinds of life and \pep and is sure to make nineteen's pee-rade the envy of all the classes. New and better ideas are being worked up continually. Some of the new stunts are: \Skidmore \A 11oral Wreck from the Polytec,\ \Spike \Plattsburg Volunteers,\ \Grape Juice Navy,\ \Freshman Football Team,\ \Prof. Taylor,\ and \Memories of a College Fire- man\ or \Hose That I Have Handled.\ If you have any you can add to the list just let Chairman Loughlin or one of the commit- tee know about it. So far only a little over a hundred dollars has been collected. The committee is work- ing every minute, and with a little co-opera- tion of the fellows, everything will come out well financially. Money is needed right novv for the costumes, floats, etc. No pains are being spared to get the best possible. The committee expects to get the costumes from a Boston house. This pee-rade is nineteen's one great op- portunity to get before the public as fresh- men; its success means more than anything it will do this year. Upon you, nineteen~ and the way you support the committee, depends the success of the pee-rade. This means : pay your tax promptly and be on \tap\ on November 6th, with a well of spirit. SOIREE DATE WILL BE CHANGED. Jack McCauley Appointed Chairman. The 1918 sophomore soiree committee was announced last Thursday by Pres. Calkins. 'the committee is: John W. McCauley, chair- rnan; Philip S. Dorton, Guy H. Beckett, John D. Brown. Theodore D. Palmer and Andre\v K. Reid. T·he soiree date of December third, pass- ed by the student body in the meeting on October twenty-first, has met with opposi .. tion in the faculty, since condition examina- tions are scheduled for the third and fourth. The date of the dance will probably be ·changed to December tenth. ALUMNI HOLD MEETING AND DINE AT GOLF CLUB Frederick B. Richards, '88, Heads List of New Officers. Forty members of the Graduate Council were present at the meeting held in \V ash- burn Hall, Friday, and twenty-eight of these attended the dinner given that night at the Mohawk Golf Club. Business was conduct- ed both at the afternoon and evening meet- ings. The officers elected were: President, Frederick B. Richards, '88; vice-president, Alexander Duane, '78; treasurer, Will~am G. Shaible, '86; secretary, Charles N. W aid~ ron, '06. The three members elected to the Coun- cil were: Melvil T. Bender, '00; Wagner Van Vlack, '00; G. R. Parker, 1 03. The committee reports were declared to be the most satisfactory submitted for some time. They covered more phases of the Council's activity and were more complete than usual. The other business was chieflv \' a discussion of the advisability of grouping- contemporary classes together at the re- unions. This subject was laid on the table For future decision. Howard Glenn, the 1916 representative on the Council, attended the meeting. ·COLLEGE ENROLLMENT TRIPLED SINCE 1890. In 1914 there were 216,493 students en- rolled in American colleges, universities ancl · technical schools ; in 1913 the enrollment was 202,231. College entToltment has more than tripled since 1890. E of L hat( sav( mor wat~ way Ne~ mor: the 1 ship fro01 • tan Max H-2 wasl her 1 ceals final] to Ct He nothi ren s by E hydn ing h runs Expo ourh man'~ ened her a snow~ old S( seal b skein~ glides group falls i Maxie Able~ the 111 Palm

, 6 t e THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 THE HAZARDS OF HAZEL. (Cereal in Twe~ty Rounds) (Synopsis of Previous Parts.) Hazel, the beautiful heiress to the throne of Zcarviar, has been forced to marrv the hated Marquis M·a:xie of Niblick in order to save her beloved subjects. During the cere- mony she steals Maxie's valuable wrist watch and with this for protection makes her way aboard the S. S. Lucy Tania, bound for New York. Just before midnight the next morning she is disturbed in her hammock by the explosion of a torpedo, which sinks the ship in forty-nine seconds. Hazel is saved from a watery grave by her t~rusty N orweg- ian slave, Bogey, only to be captured by Maxie, himself admiral of the submarine H-2 S. 0. 4:. Hazel is heartlessly forced to wash dishes until she consents to complete her marriage to the marquis. Bogey con- ceals her in a torpedo tube and Hazel is finally landed on a undiscovered island next to Cuba. Hazel is nearly starved, having found nothing but some cognac berries on the bar- ten shores. Thus she is found intoxicated by Rene Nedara, who takes her off in his ~ydro-plane, Louis XIV, ,;vithout recogniz- Ing her as his childish comrade. Rene soon runs out of gas and descends at the Panama Exposition grounds where he loses track of our heroine. She has taken Annette Keller- man's place in a diving contest. In her weak- ened condition the current is too much for her and she regains consciousness in the snows of Alaska. She is given shelter by her old servant, Bogey, who has gone into the seal business of the north. Hazel finds the sl~eing fully as good as that in· the Alps and glrdes down the Rocky Mountains into a group of tourists at Yellowstone Parle She falls into the clutches of Jigger, a tool of Maxie, and strapped to his '170 H. P. Hardly- Able she is bounced over the wheat fields of the tniddle west and finally bounced off at Palm Beach. Knowing that the U. S. mon- ster cruiser Dreadnought Driver is in port that day, Hazel finds the captain, none other than Jim Seed, her twin soul, a strong and handsome American. He convoys her safely to New York and after their first dance on the gay roof garden of the Bilthyor Hotel, our heroine is warned by Kennedy Kraig of the secret scientific squad, that Maxie is disguised as a ballet girl. Hazel makes her escape by sliding down the elevator shaft , after throwing a lobster cocktail in Maxie's eyes. She boards a sub,vay train, hotly pur- sued by the mad marquis. · -Now Go On With the Story- ( Steenth Install.)) Hazel had hardly taken a seat in the crowded car and read a few ads when sudden- ly a crash- (To be continued.) DR. HOFFMAN SPEAKS AT VESPERS. \Some Things That Are Made.\ Sunday afternoon, at vespers, Dr. Frank Sargent Hoffman of the college faculty, gave a very interesting talk on \Some Things That Are Made.\ Many students and a few town people were in attendance. Dr. Hoffman is a great favorite \Vith the students and his addresses are always well attended and greatly appreciated by the undergraduates. It is to be hoped that as large gatherings will be had every Sunday evening by the other well known speakers who have been invited to address future meetings. \Steve\ Story has under consideration cer- tain plans for the formation of a freshn1an Bible Study Class, which \rill probably be run in the same manner as the study course~ offered by this institution in the past. O,FROSH! A belated mail from the sand dunes of Long Island was wafted hithervvard the other day bearing a copy of our ·esteen1ed ·conten1-· porary the \Bay Shore Breeze,\ .to Kirku.p, '17, from which he culled anrl handed to us

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS the appended Wait-Mason. We reproduce it, aside frotn the eminence of its source, for the truthful lesson it inculcates. On a Level. He may be the son of a master of learn- ing, whose wisdom. has taken a nation by storm, or the offspring of one who is right- fully earning the plaudits of all through his local reform. His father may be a great, famed politician, whose word will bring thousands of n1en to his feet; his family 1nay hold an exalted position in circles where only the mightiest meet. But today he is only\ a man in a million ;', no family connections or riches enthrall the co1nrades who march in the same battalion. At college he's merely \one freshtnan.\ That's all. GARDNER'S GLEEMEN TO SING AT SPA. The Glee Club will open its season with a concert at Ballston Spa on November the seventh. At this time Manager Santee will take forty n1en on the trip, a larger number than ever before. About twelve of the men play in the club, as well as sing. There is keen competition for every position, and some of the older men will be forced to do their best, for there is fine 1naterial in the fresh- man class. CHEMICALS CONVENE. Cob Lowell Elected President. 1'he Chemical Society held its initial meet- ing October 20, in the chemistry lecture roo1n. Vice- P1resident Lowell, '16, was elect- ed president to ~he place of Embree, resigned. I-4ewis, '16, was chosen to succeed Lowell to the vice-presidency. Pla.ns were laid to have several open meetings this year at which well known speakers on scientific topics will be heard in addition to the usual papers by the members. The constitution is being printed and copies will be in the hands of each member at the next meeting. The next regular meeting which should come N oven 1 - ber 1, will not be held on account of the election day recess, but a special meeting of the society will be held one week later ' November 8; at 7 :30 p. m. Every member is urged to be present. BOGASKIE, '16, CRITICALLY ILL. Frank S. Bogaskie who was unable to re- turn to college this fall because of poor health, is in a very serious condition. Dur- ing the past few days he has suffered several severe hemorrhages ·that have left him gtreatly weakened_. Early in September his condition seemed much improved, but this relapse is considered very dange,rous. AND OTHER LITTLE THINGS. I love the Mountains, Forest crowned, The little brooks Which purl and bound, The rocks and bush The silent ground And other little things. I love the City, Structure grand, The jostling crowd On either hand, The nursery of Our Fatherland And other little things. I love a Girl, Who's far from here, Whose eye, in parting, Held a tear, Whose lips, in parting, Offered cheer And other little things. JOHN HULB. J ·. i 0 ' '~ Twe Tf Crie< Er And Tv Strik Twel EI( Theil Ye Next TV\i And Now ., The c Oh, C L Col. class librar1 gates has al plete durin~ docurr. Confe< Yet re II off. but ac great < A no the Cc 1915, i

J ·. i THE DAY. By Charles Alexander Richmond. Twelve mailed n1en sat drinking late, The wine was red as blood. Cried one, \How long then must we wait Ere we shall thunder at the gate, And crush the the cursed brood?\ Twelve n1en of iron, drinking late, Strike hands, and pledge a cup of hate ; \The Day!\ Twelve men met, at the day's decline- Eleven and One beside. Their ·every thought, a thought benign, Yet One-the One we call divine- Next day was orucified. Twelve men of God raised up the sign .. 1 And pledged in consecrated wine; \The Day !\ Now nineteen hundred years have passed. ··' The day-whose shall it be at last, Oh, Christ! From The Independent. LIBRARY RECEIVES GIFTS. Coulter Memorial Books Here .. Col. John Van Hoff, a member of the class of 1871, has dedicated to the college library, 22 folio photographs of Indian dele- gates to Washington, at various dates. He has also presented the library with a com- plete set of documents, which were used during the Civil War. The gift includes docun1ents both of the Union and of the Confederate states. Four boxes of books Yet remain which were also given by Mr. lioff. These have not yet been classified, but according to J\1r. Clinton, will prove a great acquisition to the College library. Another recent addition to the library is the Coulter Memorial, given by the class of 1915, in remembrance of Donald Alexander 15 Coulter, who died in the fall of his senior year. The memorial consists of 18 volumes of books which are for debating pu·rposes. The class expects to supplement this num- ber by additional volumes later. UNION ALUMNUS TALKS TO EIFFEL TOWER. Electrical engineering circles were stirred a few days ago by the announcement that a conversation had been carried on between the Eiffel Tower in Paris and the Arlington radio station near Washington. The man who talked from the Arlington station was a graduate of Union College in the class of 1912. He was Bayard B. Webb of Fulton, N. Y. This was a great undertaking, in fact the An1erican and French governments took over their radio stations from the business of directing the war to dedicate them to the cause of science. \Ducky\ Webb was president of his class his senio1r year and is a member of the Chi Psi fraternity. At pres- ent he is connected with the Western Elec- trical Company. To marry a fairy Sounds weel in a book ; But wary men marry A competent cook.-Ex. TAYLOR'S BALLOON ASCENSION

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. CON CORDIEN.SlS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS ·OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class 11atter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. Vv. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager ~rnest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N.Y. . . THE SPIRIT OF IDEALISM. We are living in a practical age-so prac- tical indeed that few of us ever dare to as- sert even to ourselves that at heart \Ve are really idealists. Still we are idealists and are laboring under the misapprehension that we are hard, cold matter-of-fact men who would scorn to have aught to do with any- thing so vague and intangible as a poetic thought, an altruistic motive or a philosophic fan1e of mind. The trouble lies in the fact that we do not admit our being what ~Te know in our inmost hearts we are. Like the children in the garden we are ashamed to stand with naked souls and minds before sacred truth. We are obsessed by a kind of intellectual false modesty 'vhich hampers our fullest development. 1 fhe proper pursuit of idealisn1 n1akes it not a neutral or even a negative factor in our lives, as many suppose, but a real, living and vital essence to our harmonious and balanced development. The idealist is not an idle dreamer of impossible and impracticable visions, but the person who sees things clear- ly as they should be and then goes a4ead and tries to make them so. U nfortunatelv this \false modesty\ as we have called it, renders it impossible for the idealist to real- ize his full capacity because he is regarded and to a certain extent regards himself as a being apart from men and the world at large. He is misunderstood and misinterpreted in all he thinks and says and does, and presently comes to regard this as the proper and natural treatment of himself. Quite natur- ally, this being the case, he presently be- con1es not a part of the world but a part from it and thereby loses all influence in the world ~n which he would become a living factor. College is the best place where a man can learn to be a practical idealist, for here he is in close contact with men with whom he has many kindred sympathies and whom he understands and by whom in turn he is understood. Unlike the wo1\ld outside, the little circl~ o~ };lis own college will, out of friendship, bear wih him till they understand hi~ and that is a~l any idealist needs in order to get properly started-a fair introduction to the world. In college it is no uncommon thing to recognize the same spirit of idealism in th~ ~ngineer who projects a bridge or the ~tud~nt of political scie~ce who advocates a rel:dical chapge in ~ur soctal institutions that we all admit ~s the actuating motive of him who reads ~n ode from Horace or CatuUus or a play from Aeschylus or Euripides. Each is an idealist in his own way, but none the ' less \ * ll live the vag· and fore dot sord muc com this its E livin and cont hum Tl wee1 two, has • a bi! a stn and . 1s nc song: prais of a c the ~ other propt its A the s stu de term~ team~

d d e e d d a n y d d n n n a h THE CONCORDIENSI~ 17 less an idealist. Each draws \ * * * the thing as he sees it HFor the God of Things as they are.\ In order to make our lives complete-to live life to its full, we must rid ourselves of the foolish notion that idealism is something vague and valueless. We n1ust realize what and where we are and set our ideals ever be- fore us to lead us onward and upward. If we do this, we shall soon feel a release from the sordid and common place which fills too much of our lives and as soon shall be- come what every college should, and what this college certainly is trying to make of its students-complete and balanced men, living men's lives, actuated by n1en's motives and fulfilling mens destiny-a conscious and continuous effort toward the betterment of humanity. WE WANT SOME SONGS. The Hamil ton game is less than three weeks away and the R. P. I. game less than two, but as yet no sign of new foot ball songs has appeared. Each of these games will be a big event with us and we should make a strong atten1.pt to surpass the song-making and song-singing powers of our rivals. It is not only to cheer the team th_at these songs are wanted, but to perpetuate a most praiseworthy custom. The quality and ring of a college's songs, show as nothing else can the genuine spirit of the college. In no other way can a student body with such ap- propriate boastfulne~s show its loyalty to its Alma Mater. And in no other way can the student body of one college meet the student ~ody of another on s~ch friendly terms of gentlemanly rivalry. Through our teams we meet the other colleges in a rep- resentative way, but when we meet them in friendly rivalry of song, we each and every one of us have the opportunity of working directly for our coHege. The talent is not lacking here in Union. Many good songs have been produced in the past with the big games as the stimuli. The impulse is now at hand and there is but one thing to do. Hamilton issued her appeal for songs two weeks ago and if we don't get busy they will out-sing us. They have dem- onstrated their ability as singers heretofore. Song writers, your time of usefulness has come. Hand all finished products to the song and cheer leader. DR. LANDRETH DISCUSSES CON- STITUTION. Monday afteJ;noon n,r. Landreth gave an interesting talk on the new constitution to a group of students gathered for the occasion in the General Engineering building. The history of constitutional revision was taken up in some detail and the relation of the State and Federal government on matters re- garding the constitution fully explained. After the talk, Dr. Landreth answered ques- tions on the subject, proposed by the stud- ents and distributed pamphlets explaining the new vvork. The talk was entirely non- partisan and all points were discussed in a fair and philosophic manner. Such talks as these are of great value to voters in clearing up difficult points and are a prime necessity in obtaining good and in- telligent citizenship. IN THE PULLMAN . . 1st Drummer-\ I represent Smith & Co .. selling ladies' footwear and hosiery.\ 2d Drummer- 4 'I'm selling underwear.'' 3d Drummer (picking' up suit~ase)-\This is a~ far as I go boys.';-Jack-o'-Lantern.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. We are footballicly on our way again. THE THIRD DEGREE. A dismal room that's shrouded with fore- boding malcontent, . A ruthless face with piercing eyes that bid the dunce repent; Some thumb-worn cards and tear-stained, with their merciless behests- What ultra mundane nightmares, these Hoff- man logic tests ! Togo Lester brought laughter upon him- self in the dean's history when he referred to Marat's journal, the People's Friend, as the Home Journal. Our distinctive campus off. has acquired a smart top-coat creation. Son1etimes the Concordy is published ~reakly by the students of Union Univer- sity. UNCOVERING OUR DARK PAST. Dear Mr. Nite: In regard to your state- ment in last week's Concordy about refusing anyone a CRUMB to eat until outstanding bills were paid, I might say that you would have STARVED many a time if that state- tnent had been true. I dare you to print this in next week's paper! Sincerely yours, JOE T. We hun1.bly retract our statement. It's a well known fact one can get anything at Joe's for nothing. SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. Paramount Pictures, Presented at the American, Are Well Worth Seeing. V AN--\The flower of Union College dran1atic talent,\ in the ·\Student's Wedding,\ bloomed rath- er shyly, and kept pretty much out of the way when city talent came out. Loughlin, '17, anll Ketchum, '16, made fairly possible Harvard jun- iors. The other collegers, who occasionally orna- mented back stage, were at least dressed the way college men are 'SUpposed to be. Dr. Towne and B. R. Hatmaker, city outp.ut, were very good. The entre-act music livened the production up con- siderably. The war pictures were much ahead O'f those we are accustomed t~ in the Pathe and Selig Weeldies, and in several situations the camera was evid- ently in range of stray bullets. A camera-man with a little sporting blood in his veins could, if the censorship wa·s not too severe, bring over sotne films that would be worth money to him, because nothing \close-up\ seems to have made appear- ance yet. The Tribune's films were the beost so far. We would like to report a real burleycue once in awhile. This everlasting proceStsion of colorless burlesque shake-togethers is getting on our nerves. May Princes•s Meroff and her Tip- Top Girls(?) never return. PROCTOR'S-As usual, nothing to enthuse over. Courtney and Irwin, in \Nowhere in Par- ticular,\ got nowhere in particular. The Hicks- ville Minstrels were about what their name im- . plies. Clara Kimbal Young, in \The Heart of Blue Ridge/' was the week's best film. MUD HAWK-Crane-Shirley did not bring any more prestige to their name in putting on \The Squaw Man.\ The play itself is; of courose, good. but the company did it no justice. HIGH SCHOOL-·The Russian players in \Sav- ranoff\ ranked well up atnong what legitimate theatre attractions we have here. They took their parts masterfully, and the musical program was strong. We suggest that the high tSchool try cotnpeting with the Van. One would be lead to believe by the average audiences at the Van Curler that Schenectady is a poor theatrical city. No more so than the scores of other representative citie,s where the play-houses a 1~ g b h s OJ de tb w cr ti( fig an er thE an< It I 1 l\n1 F v pic1 If ask twe1 We Kiss 19 fin an

·~ ' J .! ·, l j ·J { ' . ; ' I ·! i { 'f I~ ·~ :r i I 1 '•! 1 } ., \t ·\ ., •,{ THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 are being sold for kindling wood. And the answer irS not all in the mqvies. The average theatre- goer has turned to the movies not from choice, but from expediency. In the last few years we have been getting many plays direct from the So-and-So theatre, New York, but without the MODERNIZED SCRIPTURE. Consider the suffragette. She toils not, neither does she spin. And yet S. in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. . 1 I . h \ . \ h origtna cast-rea stars tn t e provinces t e·se Esteemed Advertiser Houghton talks about his \reflecting tnirrors.\ Most Mir- rors do. days being few and far between. We patronize the movies because we get our money's worth, while at the Van Curler we don't. There'.g the crux of the situation. The Concordy says: Ohio Wesleyan has organized a Prohibi- tion League and is planning big things in its fight against intemperance. Good work for any college. Good hard work for any college. ANOTHER INTEMPERANCE QUIP It's a long beer that has no draining . We were rather surprised to see a writ- er of such elegance as Grantland Rice make the very inelegant statement that \Alex- ander is like Matheson was then.\ THE FALL OF LEAVES. It delights the patient freshman To see the leaves dance down, l\nd bury unconcernedly His well-raked frat house groun'. We call upon all loyal Union men to picket chapel. If Edw'd Hale were at all logical, he might. ask: \vVhat is the difference, if any, be- tween sleep and poetry. COARSE HUMOR. We Wonder how the rough-necks, in good old days of yore, Kissed the bold-eyed maidens with the ruff- neck clothes they wore. A PROTUBERANT STANZA. Now that the ocean telephone Is really on its way We'll soon remove the ? From: What do the wild waves say? The golden rule of the engineer is the slide rufe. U. of R. under- and overgraduates are hav- ing a merry pow-wow over their football sit- uation. Their average team went into the Syracuse stadium and was more rudely rout- ed than usual. There happened to be enough left of the team to submit to a woeful after- noon with Colgate the following week. And now the alumni are seeing red and the under- grads are dazedly wondering what's the mat- ter. It n1ight help some if they'd let their tearri pick on somebody their own size. Joe T., to bring the restauranteur up again, says the M-G Typhoon looks like a Cadillac pup. Keats 1night have added: And a thing of ciuty is annoy forever. MERE HERESA Y. There's a charm about our can1pus tn the early morning light, When the dew's upon the heather, and the air is soft and light. \Vhile the evening star is din11ning in a hazel-golden light, 1917 should make itself felt in the future financial wo~ld with its Bulls and Behrs. rrhere's a charm about our campus, so thev say.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE FATHER OF THE SPORT-SHIRT. With an immeasurable feeling of pride we announce that another great econotnic dis- ,. covery was made by a Union man. Wells, '79, invented the sport-shirt. If you are skeptic, you may find him immortalized in picture near the balcony stairs in chapel. How proudly he basks in the darittg lines of his great invention! From the Purple Cow: Fall styles are to be tight with a loose effect-like a girl with too many Manhat- tans. , Yes, and to look well in these lines she tnust be well set-up fizzicaUy. No fair. Colgate smuggled her cross country squad into the R. P. I. game. Princess Lazarovich-Hrebelianovich, of Serbia, has come out in favor of suffrage. Vote for Lazarovich-Hrebelianovich! ~rhen Gun1my Glenn would summon us And cry, \You're fired! Go!\ ARE YOUR TROUBLED WITH ASTHAMA? To the young college men about the campus who talk of our athaletics, we would sugjest as their perrogative an appropriut perfesser of languidge, who would learn them most egzzactingly how to car,ry on a conservations. It gets dark so early these days w~ don't seem to get any studying done at all NITE. PUZZLE-Find the stude who has never taken a lecture course. YOUTH OF 19 PROFESSOR AT HAR- VARD. Nor bert Wiener, 19 years of age, was ap- pointed an assistant professor in philosophy at Harvard recently. In this capacity he will be called upon to instruct men who are his elders. As a boy of 13 he earned a degree of Bach- elor of A~rts from Tufts College. Too young to enter H.arvard, the prodigy became a graduate at Cornell University, and in 1912 he went to Harvard, where he gained a de- gree of Master of Arts that year and be- came a Doctor of Philosophy the following year, when he was 1\' years of age. T life, age: cau~ thel the und1 to a hyp~ nam here is fo in he natu of li: idea In find . SlOO pare1 proc~ its he of re mitte yeste ly fr, . set en pels 1 cordi ever of lif1 The dispu· exists biolo! genes biolo~ \' divers ~pher~ sumec thing ences of the reasoli and w: The i':lg th dividu: questi( the dis I rnea1 action ' that a time o1

d lt n a 't r v 1 s )\ ' r ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 LIFE. The evolutionist, once given the firost spark of life, can trace its development throughout the ages, perhaps vaguely in certain instances, be- cause of lack of complete information, but never- theless his argument is sufficiently conclusive to the unbia-sed thinker. But with all this mass of understanding we are no better able than before to ascertain the origin of life. There are two hypotheses which the naturalist may consider, namely, he may assume the cause is found in in- herent natural forces, or he may assume the cause is found in a power greater than that of the natural inherent forces. But whatever final stand the naturalist may take upon the subject of the origin of life, he is sure to share the one great common idea that life was not, is, and -shall not be. In the lowest stages of biological structures, we find that the means of reproduction, or transmis- sion of life, is effected by the simple divi-sion of the parent, and in the higher stages of organisms the process displays greater complexity, and reaches its height in man. But, wha tosoever be the method of reproduction, the life of the genitor is trans- mitted to the offspring. The metaphysicians of yesterday had the animate springing spontaneous- ly from the inanimate, but the piercing light of science shattered these idea-s as the rising sun dis- pels the hazy mist upon the rolling plain, and ac- cordingly today we maintain that life always was, ever is, and eternally ·shall be, the continuation of life. The naturalist and the revelationist are not in dispute as to the nature of biological life as it exists at the immediate time. They agree that all biological life is subject to the same laws. The genesis, existence, and death of all organisms i-s biologically the same to the minds of the most diverse thinkers of this time. But when the sphere of biology is left behind and man ios as- sumed to possess a soul, a principle of life, a some- thing that is lacking in other organisms, differ- ences arise. And today the reality and qualitie-s of the soul are much debated. We, for several reasons, will as·sume that man does posses a soul, and will proceed to examine its qualitie-s. The reason for the various views held concern- i':lg the soul arises from the question of the in- dividuality of the individual, that is to say, the question whether the individuality remains after the disintegration of the individual. By individual I mean, \wherever in the natural reahn, lineos of action, or of action and resistance are so related that a localized action is established, then for the tirne of the localization, we have an individualized part .of the whole. We know that in the inorganic world the individuality ceases upon the end of the individual, and we assume the same holds true in the organic world with but a single excep- tion,-namely, man, about which we falter in our judgtnent. The concept of the soul haos been from earliest times that of a vague something which is capable of being separated from its corporal seat. The Egyptians and Greeks conceived the soul a shadowy ethereal sub-stance, as breath, fire, or ether. Among the Hebrews the soul was believed to be of a simple, immaterial, and spiritual nature, which idea is prevalent at the present. But the idea of the soul has always been a vague one. Let uos take a concrete example of the treatment of the subject at the present time, in the case of Hugo Munste·rberg, the philosopher who claims to have a psychology with a soul. First, Prof. M unsterberg says in his book called \Psychology and Life,\ a treatise on education: \It seems to me in such complicated problems exactness and sharpnesos of the technical terms is the condition for clearness and consis·tency.\ Second, in his recent text-book of psychology he says about the theory of sub-consciousne-ss: \This theory is wide- spread and popular because it fits any purpose of explanation. But if we approach it in detail, we must recognize that it does not fulfill its promises and is thoroughly un-satisfactory.\ Third, in the same book he says: \the soul is the self conceived as a system of purposes which remains identical with itoself in developing its potential acts as real experiences.\ Fourth, in a recent article, en- titled \The Return of the Soul,\ he says: \Some opposition to the soulless psychology started front the students of mental life who have opened up the dark caves of the subcon-scious. There art' memories and emotions working in us which no psychological analysis can reach. * * * All which we perform and experience consciously is only the product, not to say the by-product, of the deep- er soul in us which thinks and acts independent of our conscious wills. * * * In our dreams our deeper soul may throw some of its bubbling ideas into consciousness. In the dioseased states of the hysteric the conscious life becomes twisted by sub- conscious emotions. We may tap the osubcon- scious mind by hypnotism.\ Later, by way of modification, he says: \The subconscious itoself is of course, not accessible to any one; it can not be anything but an hypothesis proposed to explain certain facts. If it can be shown that these san1e facts can he explained better by another agen<'y which V\re already know.-namely the hrain,-it is

I ! ·l 22 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. untenable to prefer the obscure ;fu:ypothesis of a -subconscious soul.\ Again he says : '''But is there · not an entirely different third possibility,-· namely, that we understand inner life witlrout trying to explain it.\ Finally he says: \The s <Juf has no sub- conscious cauoses, no brain causes, a.n d is always a subject, always a self, alway a11 :action.\ You can easily osee from the foregoing quotations that Prof. Munsterberg's idea of the soul i'5 vague, very vague. Great as are the phenomena whic1r are beheld by the psychologist and for which he can devise no satisfactory explanation, greater yet are the phenomena beheld by the biologist, for which also can be given no explanation. Take but a single example, that of human reproduction. Embodied in a bit of protoplasm are the traditions, the cus- toms, the thoughts, the ideals of a. J)eople, which are transmitted to a new individuat, and making him, by the strange forces of heredity, the dupli- cation of his genitors. The wonderbook of the psychologist is astonishing, but thai of the biolog- ist ioS astonishing. Now then, assuming that the sottl is a reality, and that it exists forever after death, we may properly ask, whence did it come? For man knows of nothing which has a. beginning and which did not, or would not have an. end. That which is in the future to be eterJilal, must have been in the past eternal. Hence tl!e question ex- pands, where does the soul come from, and where does it go to? The man who feels keenly the force of his individual self, aos separated frotn the great tnass of humanity, will quite naturally say that the soul exists as an independent oSelf before, during, and after life. But the man who feels that his self is but the individualized part o-f a great whole, of a unity, will naturally think of th. e self a.g com- ing from and returning to this unity. The creationist believes the sotil to be a free and independent self, coming at birth from a great unknown into the body, and remaining there for an infinites.imal bit of eternity, an-d then at death passing back into the san1e of an~ther great un- known, and at all times retaining its individuality. Furthermore, it is ~naintained that the soul is not transmitted from one organistn to another, aoS is life, but has only one organic $eat during its existence. Finally, it is believed fl1at the soul re- nlains only while the organic str11.cture remains individualized, but nevertheless the organism hearoS no causel relation to the souL The naturalist does not believe t:b.e '5oul persists to be a free and independent self; but rather as the individualized part of a \wh (i))e'' and which loses its personal identity be mergence in the whole. Again, it is not supposed that the soul passes practically its entire existence in a great un- known, perhapos in a latent state, but instead it is held that the nature of the soul is always the same, its functions are always the osame, and that its state and condition do not undergo any fun- damental variation, and that its identity is lost in a universal ''whole,\ a universal soul. This universal soul is the stream of life, of humanity, ever flowing on and on, and the droplets of which are all the time uniting, separating, and reunit- ing, all the time that the whole is moving on. And so we conceive that the soul is not the separ- able principle of life, but is life itself, and that immortality of the individual with respect to the individual doeos not exist, and that immortality of the individual with respect to the great \hl\ . w o e ext'Sts. -Lewis '17 EDWARD EVERETT HALE'S LIFE. Professor Hale Gathering Material for Bio·graphy. Professor Hale is at the present time pre- paring to write the biography of his father. Edward Everett Hale. Doctor Hale is de- voting his time, now, to reviewing his fath- er's letters and journals in which there is abundant material. The late Doctor. Hale was one of the great- est n1en of his generation and enjoyed a wide national reputation. He was a Unitarian clergyman, a noted preacher and member of the famous Cambridge' colony, among whom J an1es Russell Lowell was one of his greatest friends. Also he was, for a long time, chap- lain of Congress, a man of letters and a noted short-story writer. \The Man Without a Country,\ is perhaps his best well known short story. COLLEGE ENROLLMENT NOW TOTALS 186. If figures were the sole judge, the College enrollment for 1915-16 would be larger than that recorded in last year's catalog. A revis- ed count taken during the week showed that there are 186 men attending classes. Last year the catalog tabulated a population of 18f>. ro JU Tl ca at ha tic 17i ha cla ~ Fi1 sul wh tha or ( . JUS the in 1 A~ (Tr I B \N< STl A Ren enot drill men wen tin, the : T1 Jy Ut Rick a stt not 1 the t

e e h ~- st THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 As far as can be ascertained from class roUs, there are now in college 44 seniors, -18 juniors, 53 sophomores and 41 freshmen. The enrollment recorded in last year's catalog included all men who failed in exams, at the end of the :first term, and all men who had left college up to the time of publica- tion of the catalog. In June there were about 175 men in college. The increase this year has been in the junior and sophomore classes. . Of the 41 freshmen, 23 are taking Greek. Fifteen first-year men are beginning that subject here, while a total of 87 men in the whole college are taking it. It is estimated that over half the student body have studied or are now taking Greek.-Hamilton Life. Chicago-Benjamin Perk of Indianapolis, just 13 years old, has the distinction of being the youngest student in the freshman class in the University of Chicago. A strange little maid from Sioux City (The kind, whom in trouble, Yioux: Pity) Dropped her cat down the well ; But she said, \Ain't it hell.\ \Now I'll have to get a Nioux Kitty.\ -Tiger. STUDENTS VOLUNTEER FOR MILITARY DRILL. At a mass meeting of the students of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute recently enough men volunteered to start military drill. The movement originated among- members of the Rifle Club. The studentH were addressed by Ensign Roscoe Lee Mar- tin, of the navy, who has been assigned to the institute. The drill probably will be held sen~i-week­ ly under the tutelage of an officer. President Ricketts said that the movement was purely a student activity and that the drill would not be made compulsory or a subsitute for the usual calisthenics. :Civil engineers in the Navy have been for years sent to the institute for their degrees and the graduates of the institute in the Navy are enthusiastic over the plan. WITH US ONCE AGAIN. Rah, rah, rah ! Zip, boom, bah! Old familiar sound. See 'em wince, Bring the splints, Call the doctors round. Mamma's boy, Pride and joy, Laid out in the fray; Five ribs broke, What a joke, Dandy work. Hurray! Kick their shins, B,reak their chins, Tie 'em in a knot. Beat 'em up, Eat 'em up, Drag 'em round a lot. Smash the line; Gee! That's fine. Let no man escape. Kill the ends, Make their friends Put on yards of crepe. Do the worst, Do it first; There's no law to fear. Rah, rah, rah! Zip, boom, bah ! Football season's here. -Roy L. Moulton Fron1 the Topeka State Journal.

24 1~HE CONCORDIENSIS RATS! PERFECTED WIRELESS 'PHONE. Illinois.-The University of Illinois is building a Genetics Building in which 3,000 mice and other animals will be kept for use of the laboratories. Prof. Michae·l I. Pupin of Columbia, last of the Myers lecturers for the 1914-15 series, has, after seven years' labor, perfected his wireless telephone by which-to use his own words-''we may talk to the antipodes---,or Chern. Teacher: \What is Sodium Chlor- for that matter, send a message completely around the globe if we like.\ ide?\ Gleam of Sunshine: uAn American Sail- A practical demonstration of the success of wireless telephony was recently made, when the American T. & T. Co.'s agent in Hawaii talked to, and was able to recognize the voice of, a fellow agent in Arlington, Va. or.\ Chern. Teacher: \What do you mean by that?\ G. of S. :\A neutral salt.\-TarE.\um. · CJ Shoe Exhibit Next Wednesday and Thursday, November 3rd & 4th Room 7, Gymnasium Dormatory On the above dates our representative, Mr. H. S. Rodearmel, will be in Room No. 7, \Old Gym\ to show you all the newest and best styles of JUST WRIGHT College Shoes. G. & R. Specials 1~ • J & ~ The :amoua An styles ~tJSS tr ~~au Just Wnght Shoes $3. 7 5 1 7 3 J A V S T R E E T $4 tO $6 Ph

lSt es, . liS vn oQf ~ly ie, . 1n ze )0, John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK .. ''T e Display 500 Styles of English and Stotch \\'\ oolens. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y: l 00 References fron1 Pron1ine11t Citizens of Schenectady. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLEt '17 Collet~• Repre•entative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wall ace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive S1ore .. '' Our superior buying facilitie!s insure our patrons the broadest, 1nost ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are th.e most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So Ferry Str.eet \Look for the Cow's Head\ NoRMAN-the new ARROW COLLAR.c. ., 'lt fOV1,) Cluett, Peabody &Co. Inc. 'lfakw&. CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. :fPhone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenect2dy Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 HEN IT RAINS IN A HTJRRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

ress \ ; . ·~ - . ..., ~. - •' . ' ... - . . WE HAVE SOUNDED THE TOCSIN IT'S A CAPITAL IDEA. \DRESS UP.\ The times are auspicious. Good times are at hand. We Americans can afford to \Dress Up !\ Everybody is talking it. The most remarkable thing is the law of suggestion-Let everybody \Dress Up\ and begin the \Dress Up\! campaign right at home. Don't be a sloven. Dress up! \Dress up\ personally.. And then-remember-The House of ''Houghton\ is \Dressed Up\! It is the well dressed store, that wins the trade. Come \Dress Up\ this week in one of our suits an:d overcoats. $15, $18, $20. HTD 455 STATE STREET The Store That Creates-But Never Imitates. Schenectady ~ Art Pres·s

