Additions to F acuity. Commencement Plans. MAY 6, 1915 NO. 24

., UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: l.. Comr•e• leading to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required fo:r ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the dose of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA TIN -SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. SciEN'l'n'IC CouRsE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree ot JJ. E. GENE'RAJ-4 ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANI'I'ARY ENGINE~RING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELJ~:c'I'RICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cou:rse8 leading to graduate degrees, CouRSE LEADING 'l'o DEGEEE OF' M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lertures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSlt ,LEADING TO DEGR~ o:e M. S. E9 E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research wor~ CouRSlt L:€ADING 'to DEGitEE or P:a. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis-- sion the degree of M. E. E. o:r an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BAR.N!S, Secretary, · Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILI.,IS G. TucKD, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P ARK!R}. }. NnwroN Fxnao, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly .devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: joHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFR.l!D B. HuEsT£D, Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Ex•m•\ GlJNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, Bi\NNERS ANn PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. Col1e~e Phf'ne 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate G La:

TRADE MARK Iil The Guarante·e of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner ! & Umer Shoes ,· $6·.00 to $8·.50 ICnow~n wherever Good Shoes are worn. AU styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAlL STS. The Cain's Leadin~ exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· .ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p.m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phtmt 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS f~9ia: 3 ~:;:; Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

See the New Spring Styles B bb . ·,' at a ... ttt s See the splendid display of Babbitt Clothes as made h-y Rogers-Peet See th,e wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. We are sole agents in this tri·cit:Y territory for these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as oift did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 525 State Street Opposite Waiting Room Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Dra\\in~ lnka I Eternal Writin~ Ink Entrnsin' Ink I Taurine Mucilde i Pbc.to Mounter P .. te I I>ra-,win~ Board Paate l Liquid Paate Office Paate V elletable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS lfiD ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling, inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, t:hey are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGIN:S & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and L<>ndon 271 Ninth St. Br()oklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CAN,DIES 1 PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

A Pac·k of Gilt-Edge PICTORIAL Playing Cards Free With a 40c Tin Humidor of TUXEDO Tobacco TUXEDO is unique in every way. One desirable, exclusive feature is the fact that you can smoke TUXEDO where ladies are present, knowingly absolutely that they, as well as yourself; will enjoy Its deli- cate, aromatic fragrance. This free offer of Pictorial Playing Cards is made to call special attention to TUXEDO as a \Horne Smoke.\ Pictorial Playing Cards are of excellent quality, with ·Clear faces, gilt edges, and that smooth \feel\ card players appreciate. Tlae Perfect Tobacco lor Pipe and Cigarette TUXEDO has taken first place in the favor of critical American smokers. Their unani- mous preference for TUXEDO is convincing evidence of the sup~rior qualities of this mild, delightful tobacco. The \Tu.xedo Process\ of treating the ripest, mildest leaves of the highest-grade Kentucky Burley removes every trace of harsh· ness and deveJo ps a smooth, mellow fragrance and flavor that· have 11ever been successfully im£tated. The TUXEDO 40c Tin Humidor 1s very attractive in design and colors, and is a prac- tical Hmnidor. Keeps the tobacco fresh and delicious, and is an ornament to the den or office. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE FamoUIIJ'HD tin, with 1 0 C.o nYenient, glauine 5 1old \lettering c~~ned C wrapped moisture-proof C to fit pocket • • • pouch • , • • • Itt Tin Humidon, 40c and 80e. In Gla.• Humidor., SOt: and 90c Ill FRE .E Look for Free Offer aigm on a dealer'• · window today and avoiddisappointment. Dealers have only a limited supply of Pictorial Carda and cannot obtain more. Get a 40c t=1 Tin Humidor of TUXEDO and uk for FREE pack L!!!!!!!J of PICTORIAL 'Playing Carda. Ji. TilE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY ~&&~~~&&&&~~3&&3&&&&~EE~&&&&&e~~~~esa ~':::::!!!!:!!!'Ia:: I J

ESTABUSHED !1&18 Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, will be at the Edison Hotel on SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats and Shoes Boston Branch 149 Tremont Street ;.V ewport Branch 220 Bellevue A venue We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of To C.ure Cold • (fl BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. Caps, Gowns S. E. Stanes' and Hood$ .Art ~tnrt To the American Colleges and Univeraitiea from No. 7 New York Central Colonnade the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty New York Telep:hone Schenectady, N. Y. UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street ' •• 11 [..ll • · ·,I f W f'A'il I )l'IJ'J\ f'4 ,'!' Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Cl ''If A 22 Ht 1

Clothing F . h. urn1s ·tngs Hats We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? 'The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EA:STERN Ave. KEELER'S --~EUROPEAN---­ HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P.M. 'Broadway and ·Maiden lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY zso ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. · 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best itt Cream, Butter, Etc .. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom· Made STYLISH CLOTHES ··Comparison is the · Lever Tbat Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you wiU prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours. for the asking. . 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght,. Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ........ ______ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc l\1:en's Heels ________________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ SQ to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Collette Repreeentative 1915 ''RADNOR'' THE NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents .. Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. VOL. 3~ 1 ] Colgat team at day by a ers appa: ing Jenk punched Union h errors w errors cc; net was the Harr. liant. After Dave B by a pit< . on a s1r home fo Jenkins on Moyt Beaver ~ Colga1 . . 1nn1ng\ singled. Dwyer. ,Goundr) with th{ dry too1 and SCOl left. In th< runs. F and thi1 gled, B , Jackson by Wes·

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 MAY 6, 1915 NO. 24 THE COLGATE GAME. First Defeat for the Garnet. Colgate easily defeated Union's baseball team at !Iamilton a week from last Mon- day by a score of 9 to 2. The Maroon play- ers apparently found littie sfifficulty in solv- ing Jenkins' delivery. Nine hits in all were punched out by the Colgate team whil-e, Union had to be content with three. Four errors were made by each team but Union's errors came at critical times vv~hile the Gar- net was unable to profi. t by the miscues of the Hamiltonians. The game was not bril- liant. After Jenkins was out in the sixth inning, Dave Beaver took :first when he was hit by a pitched ball. Moynih.an advanced him on a single and Jake Beaver brought him home for Union's first run. In the eighth Jenkins got a base on balls. He advanced on Moynihan's out. A two-base hit by Jake Beaver scored Jenkins. Colgate's first scoring came in the third inning when two runs were counted. Dwyer singled. Jackson sacrificed, advancing Dwyer. Dwyer started to third just as ,Goundry singled down the first base line with the result that· Dwyer scored. Goun- dry took second on the throw to the plate and scored when Captain Robinson hit to left. In the sixth Colgate scored three more runs. Kenney and Dwyer were on second and third respectively when Jackson sin- gled, Both men scored. A passed ball put , Jackson on third, whence he scored on a hit by West. Robinson, vV est, Reid and Ken- ney scored in the eighth on two hits and several errors by the Garnet infield. Jake Beaver was the hitting star of the afternoon, getting two hits out of ·,three~ times at bat. The only other man to hit safely was Moynihan, with one hit out of four times at bat. Jenkins fanned eight n1en in all, while ten Schenectady players succumbed to the twisters of Hicks and \Vest. While Hicks was in the game Union could not sc.ore, but the pitcher turned his ankle running down a man between first and second in the sixth inning and was re- placed by West off whose delivery Union scored its runs. Jenkins' control was good. He allowed only three 1nen to walk during the eight innings he pitched. Hicks walked two men in six innings and West three in two in- . n1ngs. Captain Woods' absence was felt both in fielding and in hitting. At least four of Colgate's runs were scored on errors. COLGATE. A.B. R. H. P.O. A. E. Robinson, If. ______ 3 1 Hicks, p --------- 2 0 \Vest, p ----------- 1 1 Stuart, rf. -------- 2 0 Reid, cf. -----·---- 3 2 Kenney, lb ------- 4 2 Glendenning, ss. __ 4 0 Dwyer, 3b ------- 4 1 Jackson, 2b ------- 2 1 Goundry, c. ----· .... _ 3 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 2 6 0 4 1 1 1 1 2 11 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 3 2 1 0 1 2 2 0 trotals ________ 28 9 9 24 14 4

' I, I I \ \ I \ I I. I. \ I I 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS UNION. A.B. R. H .. P.O. A. E. D. Beaver, c. --.--- 2 1 0 9 1 1 Moynihan, ss ----- 4 0 1 1 2 0 J Beaver, lf. -·--·--- 3 0 2 1 0 0 . Zimmer, cf. -----~- 3 0 0 1 0 0 Houghton, lb -·--- 3 0 0 8 0 0 Rosecrans, :2b ----· 3 0 0 1 2 0 Bryon, 3b ·----·---- 3 0 0 0 0 3 Friday, rf. -------- 3 0 0 0 0 0 Jenkins, p. ·-------- 2 1 0 0 2 0 Totals ________ 26 2 3 21 7 4 R. H. E. Colgate __ , ____ ,0 0 2 0 0 3 4 *-· 9 9 4 Union ________ o 0 0 0 0 1 0 1-2 3 4 Two base hits, J. Beaver. Sacrifice hits, Stuart, 2; Jackson, D. Beaver. Strike-outs, Hicks, 7; Jenkins, 8; West, 3. Passed ball, D. Beaver, J. Bases on balls, off Hicks, 2 ; off Jenkins, a; off West, 3. Hit by pitched ball,. by West, D. Beaver; by Jenkins, Reid. Left on bases, Colgate, 4; Union, 6. Time of game, 1 :45. .Umpire-Mr. Hynes of Nor- wich. HAMIL TON WEAKENED BY LOSS OF STARS. Expects to Give Union a Stiff Battle. CLINTON, N. Y., May 5.-Hamilton will go to Schenectady Saturday with a greatly weakened tealil, owing to the recent loss of two of last year's stars, Higgins at second, and W. Gow at center field, but will never~ theless present some very choice offerings in the way of batting and fielding to the Garnet. Whitman, who is carrying the bulk of the bo:x work, is a sophomore with little experience, but pitched high class ball at the Rochester game last week. Hamilton lost the game after a ninth inning rally 3-2, due to Ro~hester's dazzling fielding which held Hamilton's eight hits scattered. At the receiving station Hamilton has a star in .Art Miller. He backstopped very ef- fectually tor \Steve\ Royce last season when Royce made his record of 100 strike-outs for the season, and equalled the intercollegiate fanning record of 21 in a single game. Mil- ler has a neat peg to second and is good at stick work. Captain Erhardt is again playing first~ his regular position for the past three years. At second, Griffith has taken Higgins' posi- tion, and is displaying the right sort of snap. Griffith worked out at third a part of last season. Behan, a sophomore from Troy, cut into baseball circles for the first time this spring, and has already made a record equalling that of Rothensies last year. I-Iamil ton is further handicapped by lack of proper home grounds for practice, and until the Rochester game team work was noticeably lacking. Improvement has come this week, however, and Union may expect a very stiff contest Saturday. Coach Toer- ner will bring twelve men to Schenectady. The probable line-up: Hatnilton-Griffith, 2b; Gow, lf; Behan, ss; Erhardt, lb; McLouth, 3b; Daniels, cf; ]\filler, c; Aldrich, rf; Wh~tman, p. NEW PROFESSOR APPOINTED TO SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. Union Fortunate to 0 btain Noted Physicist. Doctor Richmond announced Tuesday, April 27, the appointment of Dr. R. D. Klee- man, of the University of Cambridge as as- sistant professor of physics at Union Col- lege. This appointment will add much to the strength of the science department. Dr, Kleetnan was graduated from Ade- laide University, Australia, in 1905, being awarded the 1851 Exhibition Scholarship in Physics. He entered Emmanuel College, Cambridge, England, studying under Sir J. J. Thomson. At the end of two years he was awarded the Research Degree of Bach- elor of Arts and a reneV\ral of his scholarship. Later he obtained the Sudbury Hardyman prize of Emmanuel College for a disserta- tion on Ionization. In 1907 he obtained the degree of Doctor of Science. In 1009 he was award€ lege a: Studer was as ship 0' scienti . a senE sophie of the Lett bridge greate: Bragg fessor contai; value Tes1 en dish sity oi \Mr Camb1 ies be: his st< their one of the yo recogr which and b) to the worke Labor time · searcb has a1 conn e. of the atomi~ of thE radiat bodie~ osoph of th€ which tween pounc

THE CONCORDIENSTS 11 awarded a studentship in Emmanuel Col- lege and the san1e year the Mackinnon Studentship of the Royal Society. In 1910 he was assigned to the Cle~k Maxwell Student- ship of the University of :Cambridge. His scientific researches have been published in a series of papers irt the Cambridge Philo- sophical Magazine and in the Proceedings of the Royal Society. Letters from Sir J. J. Thomson, of Cam- bridge University, who is recognized as the greatest living physicist, and Professor Bragg, of the University of Leeds, and Pro- fessor Barkla, of the University of London, contain the following appreciations of the value of Dr. Kleeman's work. Testimonials from Sir J. J. Thomson, Cav- endish Professor of Physics in the Univer- sity of Cambridge : \Mr. Kleeman, of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, has made in'lportant discover·· ies before he came to Cambridge. During his stay here he has added considerably to their number and is now well known as one of the most energetic and promising of the younger physicists. His work has been recognized by the University of Cambridge which awarded him the Research Degree and by the Royal Society which elected him to the Mackinnon Scholarship. He has worked with great diligence in the Cavendish Laboratory for several years and during that time has completed n1any important re- searches in various branches of physics. He has added much to our knowledge of the connection between the physical properties of the different chemical elements and their atomic weights and also on the behavior of these substances when exposed to the radiations emanating from radio-active bodies. He has also published in the Phil- osophical Magazine and in the Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society which is concerned wrth the relation be- tween physical properties of chemical com- pounds and their chemical composition, a subject of great and increasing importance. Nfr. Kleeman has also held the Clerk Max- well Studentship, the most important stud- entship in the gift of the University, for proficiency in experimental physics. He is a physicist of exceptional ability who has already made his mark in molecular physics and whose ability and enthusiasm justify the expectation that he will attain great di~­ tinction in the subject.\ (Signed) J. J. THOMSON. September :9, 1914. From P·rofessor W. H. Bragg, Cavendish Professor of Physics in the University of Leeds: \Dr. Kleeman's research work at Cam- bridge has been so successful and is so well known that it seems hardly necessary that I should say anything as to his scientific knowledge and his capacity for patient in- vestigation.'\' (Signed) \V. I-I. BRAGG, Leeds, September 20, 1913. From Professor C. G. Barkla, Wheatstone Professor of Physics in the University of London: \I have fo:llowed his work for a n u1nber of years and for a few years have known Mr. l(leeman personally. The original work which Mr. Kleen1an has done is not only considerable in range and volu1ne but son1e of it ranks among the most valuable con·· tributions made to physical science within the last ten years. Much of this is, of course, well known to physicists both in this country and abroad. I consider Mr. Klee- man one of the most able of the younger physicists.\ (Signed) October 10, 1913. ; C. G. BARICLA. COMMENCEMENT WEEK. Extensive Plans for Exercises.-Ci vil War Veterans Will Be Here. The seniors this year will be graduated at the best con1mencen1ent Union has ever

I I I I I I I I 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS tnencement will be June 5~9 and plans for the exercises include many new features. had this one hundred~nineteenth corn- United States Senator Henry Cabot Lodge will give the honorary chancellor's address. The :fiftieth anniversary of the declaration of peace between the North and South will be celebrated along with ,cotnmencement. quarters. The Monday afternoon program will include the senior class day exercises in the college garden, the public meeting of veterans later in the same place, and frater- nity teas. Union men played an important part h1 the Civil War as is well known and an ef- fort is being made to have every surviving .Union veteran attend commencement. Baccalaureate degrees will be conferred upon all Union men still alive who left :co 1- lege to enlist in either army. The Civil War record committee of the Graduate Council is preparing a record of Union College students and graduates who took part in this great conflict and it will be pttb- lished for the exercises. Thomas H. Fearey, '63, is chairman of the committee. He him- self was a lieutenant in the signal corps of the army of the Pote>mac, and has given much of his time. to the compiling of the record. The Civil vVar veterans will have a public n1eeting under the old N ott. elm in Jackson's garden Monday afternoon of com- mencement week. There will be an appro- priate program for the meeting. The vet- erans will also have a special section in the alumni parade the following day. ''Everyman's supper,\ at the Mohawk Golf Club for other than reunion classes,. and reunion class dinners will take place Mon- day night at 6 o'.clock. 'The speaker for this event has not been decided upon but he will vvithout doubt be one of the older prominent The sophomore and junior oratorical con- tests and the extetnporaneous prize speak- ing will take place the night of Saturday, June 5, instead of Monday night as has been the custom. 'fhese exercises will be in the First Presbyterian Church. The college Christian Asso~iation will have a special alumni vesper service in the college garden Sunday, June 6. That night Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond will preach the bac- calaureate sermon to the tnembers of the graduating class in the First Presbyterian Church. Monday morning will be gi-ven over to the registration of alumni in the col- lege office, and the opening of class head- alumni. Sigma Phi has given over its dance, which has always been held on Monday of commencement week; in order that the sen- ior hall may be held on that night this year. This dance will begin at 9 o'clock in the gyn1nasium. The gymnasium will be decor- ated with bunting and greens, and the music and luncheon will be of the best. Admis- sion will be free to the members of the graduating class. The gala day of the week will be Tuesday, alun~ni day. The parade of alumni classes in costume will include. an old guard divi- sion for members of non-reunion classes and a division for the Civil War veterans. It will form in North Ferry Street in front of St. George's parish house, at 10 o'clock in the morning, and will proceed to the campus, where it will be reviewed by a committee appointed by the G-raduate Council. The Waldron cup, which. will be awarded to the class making the best showing, will be given to the class scoring the highest number of points according to a system devised by the committee. Fifty points will be allowed for perfect attendance of the members of the class, twenty-five points for attractive- ness or novelty of the class costume, and twenty-five points for the largest number of members of any one class in line, regardless of the number of living members in the class. The cup will be awarded at the alumni dinner at 1 o'clock in the gymnasium. At the alumni dinner the speakers wi11 be Dr. i ~: i ' Riehm( college rangerr. lunche< friends will no festivit tunity bratior Sigma meet 1 The . ens w1 Alex.ar the re Dr. Ri a rece The c<: o'clocb take p elude 1 four c1 low ct and u: ed by vided and e . prom1: follow mence Pre ied w~ of his :rvra, zens' the sl gyn1. l\!Ia A.ssoc }Ie V\7 JVIa at th( ed Cl

i ' 'THE CONCORDillENSIS 13 Richmond, Frank Bailey, treasurer of the college, an alu n1.nus, and a trustee. Ar- rangements have been made to serve a luncheon in Silliman Hall at noon, so that friends and relatives of the visiting alumni will not have to leave the campus during the festivities. This will give them an oppor- tunity of attending the alumni dinner cele- bration. The board of governors and the Sigma Xi and Phi Beta Kappa societies will meet Tuesday morning. The ball game between Union and Stev- ens will take place Tuesday afternoon on Alex.ander field. There will be boxes for the reunion classes. Following the game Dr. Richmond and Mrs. Richmond win give a reception at their home on the campus. The celebration alumni night will begin at 8 o'clock and close about 10 o'clock. This will take place on Alexander field and wiU in-- clude the sensational torch race between the four classes, the singing contest for the Lud- low cup and various stunts by the reunion and undergraduate classes. A stage light- ed by blazing nitrogen lamps will be pro- vided for the performers, and n1any novel and entertaining productions have been promised. The fraternity reunion meetings followed by serenading, will close com- mencement w·eek. PREXY'S DATES. President Richmond has his usually var- ied work planned out for the month. Some of his dates are as follows : lvfay 8-Acts as toastmaster at the Citi- zens' Banquet held under the auspices of the Schenectady Y. M. C. A. in the college gyn1. Governor Whitman will be present. l\!Iay 15-Entertains the Upper Hudson A.ssociation of Phi Beta Kappa at his home. l-Ie \t\rill give a paper on British Minstrelsy. JVIay 24-Delivers the principal address at the dedication of the new Third Reform- ed Church of Albany. DA.NNER '16 SECRETARY OF ATH- LETIC BOARD. At college meeting tast Monday Carl Danner was elected secretary of the Ath- letic Board for the year 1915-16. Danner is a member of the Beta Theta Pi frater- ni1t:y, is business 1V[anager of the 1916 Gar- net and treasurer of the Y. M. C. A. Announeen1ent has been made of the mar- riage of L. H. Gilbert, ex-'15, to Miss Grace D. Beaver.. The wedding took place on May 5, 1:915, at Coeymans, N. Y. Gilbert is prac- ticing law at Newark and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. SIGMA XI ELECTIONS. Eight graduate students and six meln- ber.s of the senior class have been elected into the Union chapter of Sigma Xi. The graduate members are: Ernest Alexander- son, Royal Technical Institute of Sweden; Peng-shon Chu, Royal Institute of Tech- nology of China; Richard Evans '14; Harry Knox, 1VL I. T. and Annapolis; Kuang Ping Koo, University of Illinois; Alexander Stev- enson, Jr., of Princeton; Mong K. Tsen of Cornell, and Ting Shien Yeh of Lehigh. ~\fhe seniors are: Raymond Arthur of Brooklyn; D. J. Beaver and J. J. Beaver of Schenectady; Edward P. Culver of Hudson :FaUs; Samuel Frankel of this city, and Frank Randles of Argyle. Culver is a n1en1ber of Psi Upsilon fraternity, Randles of the Pyramid Club and Arthur· of Theta L.arnbda Phi. The initiation will take place at the regular meeting of the society in June. PRIZE ORATORS CHOSEN. Tuesday afternoon the following speak- ers for the junior and sophomore orator- ical contest were chosen: 1916, DeForest, Larndreth, E. Hummer, Embree, alternate, J. B. Taylor. 1917, Morrison, Clough, .Frankel, Tregurtha, alternate, Chapman. The judges were Dr. Hale, Dr. Kellogg and Dr. l\1 arch.

14 THE CONCORDlENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --------------------- 705 Nott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---------- Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 -------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, Jatnes B. Taylor, '16 ------·-- .705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter 1 '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Ca1neron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18.; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; ]. ]. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 -- Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. COLLEGE SPIRIT. Ask any college man what \College Spirit\ is and he will very readily give you an offhand answer which will differ from the answer of the next man you ask, precisely as the two men differ from each other. College spirit will be found; then, to act like a mirror, reflecting with minuteness of detail each man as he really is. Thus if you can get a correct idea of a man's disposition and character, you know immediatelJ what kind of college spirit he has and again, if you can see a sample of what he calis his college spirit, you need look no farther for a true index of the man himself. Col- lege spirit, therefore, appears to be a very complex and often contradictory, but at the same time a very real and vital existence. As the college is made up of a number of individual men, so the spirit of the college is the sum total of the college spirits of the men who comprise the college. It is a self evident fact, that that college spirit whe ther it be good or poor, enthusiastic and active or languid and passive is the algebraic sum of the plus and n1inus spirits of the students and alumni. The spirit of a college and a student body is fixed by the existent standards of the college and student body and in order for it to be \good spirit\ in the idealistic sense of the word, the stand- ards must be hi.gh and faithfully lived up to by the students. False standards are the worst enemy of true college spirit. It is not good co11ege spirit to break: into the shops of the town in the excitement of a peerade and destroy valuable property without paying for it. Neither is it college spirit to adorn your roon: with stolen signs from stores, cars and street corners. There is neither glory nor wit in such a proceed ure \fll hich is merely the renewal of childish propensities which should have been long since outgrown. College spirit is not shown by getting drunl< after i cis ion: \get a R and i~ out n( and d~ being 111e11, by pr, with: must a gre. his A . ptece the g~ en erg cause find l tion, be cat and c of th ard o and r facto1 DEL'l On: moved Lenox stucco and is the m lTnion the fr groun TRA< Sat1

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 after important athletic victories, by throwing taunts at opposing teams, carping at de- cisions of umpires or destroying- and defacing college property even when you can \get a-\vay with it.\ Real college spirit· consists of deportment like a college man and not a college boy and is the natural outgrowth of self-respect. This at its normal development will cut out nearly all the foolish excuses which parade under the false name of \college spirit\ and do more than anything else to injure the college's reputation. The next thing after being a normal, manly man is to be a gentleman. This is a hard thing to ask of some n1en, but after all it is n1erely a highly beneficial artificiality which is always acquired by practice in the first place and is not nearly so hard as it looks. Whether you agree with it in principle or not is another question-as an investment it pays. After this must come self-sacrifice to make the ideal college spirit. A man must be willing to do a great nu1nber of things which may never even receive recognition for the good of his Alma Mater. Whatever task falls his lot, from the reporting of an insignificant piece of news for his college paper or press club to the carrying of the pigskin across the goal line for the winning point in the chan1pionship game, he must do with all the energy and ability he can put into it. He must not fail or \lie down on the job\ be- cause it is hard or because he doesn't feel like it, but he n1ust be responsible and must find his sternest critic in himself,. if his college spirit is to be the best. In this connec- tion, he should not attempt to do more than he can do well. 'I' he \honor hog\ who because of his popularity or vote getting ability \holds down\ aU the offices he can get and does not really fill any of them is a bane to the welfare of his college and the spirit of the college. True college spirit can only come by each man's setting a high stand- ard of perfection for himself, in acting consistently with it without regard to the labor and hardship involved and in so directing his energy that he will always be a positive factor in the ultimate attainment of the best that his Alma Mater stands for. DELTA PHI OCCUPIES NEW HOUSE. On Saturday, May 1, Delta Phi fraternity moved into their new chapter house on Lenox Road. The house, which is of stucco finish, is situated near the culvert and is a fine addition to the campus. With the moving of Delta Phi to the campus, lT nion becomes unique in the fact that all the fraternities are housed on the college grounds. TRACK TEAM MEETS R. P. I. TEAM SATURDAY. Saturday afternQon the students will be given their first opportunity to see the track team in action. Between forty and fifty n1en have been working out every af- ternoon. All those who have shown abil- ity will be given a chance against R. P. I. The team is especially strong in the sprints, n1iddle distances and jumps, and the chances are good that the track tean1 will add one more victory to our already long list. \The crime, base woman's, on you head.\ The villain hissed in hate. Replied the culprit anxiously, \Oh dear, is it on straight?\

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS On Your Way ON YOUR WAY. A SOPHOMORE SPEAKS. (By our own Staff Poet.) Why is it that the gentlemen of press and pen and rostrum Inveterately iterate one universal nostrum To emphasize repugnancy-· - With gestures semaphoric They label their antipathies \inanely sopho- moric!\ _A._ \sophomoric argument,\ a \sophomoric hat\ ' A \sophomoric state of n~ind,\ and likewise \this and that\- And ever o'er their battling, shuttlecock and battledoric, They batter the King's English with their burbling \sophomoric!\ Perhaps those very sages had a college education (Which probably accounts for their a1naz- ing elevation) And just one baltny solace co1nes to straigh- ten out our scores When we think that once upon a time those guys were sophomores! THE COLLEGE OFFICE HERE DOESN'T SELL IT. Before a student n1ay purchase liquor at the University of Wisconsin he n~ust sign a statement in the presence of witnesses that he is twenty-one years old. This bars freshn1en from \rushing the growler.\-An exchange in last week's 'Concordiensis. WE'VE BEEN PONDERING THIS QUESTION, CLYTIE, FOR TWO WEEKS, BUT WITHOUT SUCCESS. AT ALL EVENTS, WE WELCOME YOU. Dear Hafiz: Say, what do you mean, by Hafiz? Hafiz original, or Hafizn't? Your first contrib, :CLYTEMNESTRA. P. S.-In addition to ''proposition\ in your \[ndex Expergatorius\ allow me to suggest ''quite;'' \nice etc. It would be quite nice if these were always properly used, yes? (Note: That's a pretty good proposition. But we rule out the \etc.'' HAFIZ) OURS IS A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY. \Ve hereby nominate Fatty Arbuckle for Salutatorian and Mabel Normand to distri- bute the diplomas at commencement. Under such conditions we feel sure that seniors fron~ every college in the country would flock here to graduate. Vote early. Remember-Charles Chaplin for Chancellor, Fatty Arbuckle for Saluta- torian, and Mabel Normand (Heaven bless her!) to present the diplomas. TUT, TUT, PETE: THIS COLUMN IS NOT THE HOME OF FRENCH FARCE. Dear I-Iafiz : 'rhis was overheard in Psychology Fri- day: \:Did you read what Hafiz said we would wear next after sweat-shirts?\ \No what?\ \Just what I said.\ ''You didn't say anything.\ \Well?\ \Well.\ Yours extremely, PETE. TO THE PROOF-ROOM. \Baseball'' is spelled with two l's. In \fine the d in absent as in \oyster.\ WHA~ Non sartori shirts. favori1 SHAI \ athletj Met l\1ond Profe~ val en< recom facult On< the p: when of the ballac rendi1 In th expec \Vl lYle Su1 GOV Chiej Dr Whi1 'Yorl< zcns'

THE CONC;ORDIENSIS 17 WHAT THE WELL-DRESSED MAN WILL WEAR. Nominations are now in order for the sartorial fad we shall take up after sweat- shirts. The column hereby goes on record as favoring bath-robes for chapel. SHADES OF HUGHIE FULLERTON AND OLD GRANT RICE! \ * * if mathen1atics were applied to athletics * *\ -Last week's Concordy. OUR NATURAL ENEMIES. Members of the faculty convened last l\1onday for informal discussion. Assistant Professor lVIorland King spoke on the pre- valence of illness among students. His recommendations were well received by the faculty. One of the most delightful moments of the present writer's college course was when he heard a certain prominent member of the faculty sing a portion of that pathetic ballad entitled \The Raging Canal.\ This rendition, we understand, is an annual event. In that case time will pass quicker for the expectation of hearing it again next year. Going to chapel? \Vhat day is today? l\tlonday., Sure I'm going. HAFIZ. GOV. CHARLES S. WHITMAN ON THE HILL SATURDAY. Chief Executive Will Address Citizens' Banquet in the Gymnasium. Dr. Richmond will introduce Governor Whitman and Dr. George J. Fisher of New -y-ork, who will be the speakers at the citi- zens' banquet in the gyn1nasiun1 Saturday evening. Elaborate arrangen1ents are be- ing made by the people of Schenectady for the entertainment of the distinguished guest. UNDER-CLA.SS DEBATE. Sophomores and Freshmen Will Debate Next Monday. ~\fhe freshtnan-sophomore debate will be held in the chapel on Monday, May 10, at eight o'clock. The subject for debate is: '''The Navy of the United States should be immediately increased.\ The opening speeches will be limited to seven minutes, the closing speeches to five. The judges, who will be members of the faculty, have not as yet been chosen. The debate will be informal and as is the custom. will be open to the general public. NEW Y. M. C. A. CABINET. Recently President R. Embree called to order the new Y. M. C. A. cabinet for next year. tfhe members of the same are: Vice- President, D. F. Chapman, '17 ; Treasurer, C. F. Danner, '16 ; Chait·man of Social Ser- vice, Ll C. Fletcher, '16; Chairtnan of Chris- tian Education, J. H. Imrie, '17; Chairman of Religious Works, W. 0. Clough, '1 '1; Chairman of Publicity, to be announced; Secretary, C. Heatley, '18. TWO TENNIS MATCHES THIS WEEK. Team Plays Vermont and Stevens. This is a busy -vveek for the tennis team. 'J:'his afternoon a n1.a tch was played with the lJ niversity of Ver1nont here, and on Sat- urday the team will oppose Stevens on the campus. On account of the wet condition of the courts the tean~ has not had 111 uch prac- tice but in spite of this fact they seen~ to be in fairly good condition. Congratulations to Dr. and Mrs. Kellogg- a daughter.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS TWO PICTURE.S .. In this poem,. the old negro describes to us a reverie of his former plantation life. The contrast is vivid, the feeling strong. In the toast of the dying debauchee, there is something which leaves an indelible im- pression on the reader. The philosophy at the close is pleasing after the strong feeling. De possum he am roastin' in de kettle on de fire, Sennacharib am teasin' Iii' baby Nehemiah, De yaller dorg am nappin' in de sunshine on de floor, De sunflowers am a lookin' east outside de cabin door. I's back in childhood once again, I smells de clematis I sees de watermillion patch, I feels my mudder's kiss. 01' masser's in de manor house, he's visit- ors today, He's showin' dem de pictures now, befo' dey goes away. He stops in front a bright-eyed boy, I sees de look ob pride Dat allus comes into his face fo' masser Robert died An' glory hangs de victor's wreath on con- quered Alamo, An' Masser Bob, de angels clothe with robes as white as snow. Dar am anoder picture comes. I wish 'twould fade away, But 'spects 'twill keep a hauntin' me until my dyin' day. It am again a sodger lad, an' he's about to die, I sees de frenzy on his brow, de madman in his eye. He's Jibbed de life, he's kept de pace, he's broke de golden bowl An' wid dis toast upon his lip he renders up his soul: '\I drink de damning ob de ·church, ·de curs- ing ob de bell, \I drinks de scarlet woman's kiss, I drinks de hottes' heil.\ De sunflower straightens up his neck:: to look into de sun, De possum, he am roasted brown, de ho- cake it am done ; 01' mamn1y dribes de yaller dorg a.-yelpin' from de door, She picks de big rag-baby up dat's lyin' on de floor, An' den she calls us chillen. in, I taste dat possum yet, De million am de sweetes' one dat ebber I hab ·eat. I cannot get 'em straightened out, de past wid present blends, I knows not whar de now begins nor where de past it ends; An' whar de future hitches on, I somehow doesn't know, I reckons I's a chile fo' sure while Ys down here below. MOSES VINEY. President Richmond announces the ap- pointment of Francis· Howard Fobes as as- sistant professor of Greek at U n..ion :College. Francis Howard Fobes, A. B. Harvard, 1904; A. M. Harvard, 1905; B. A. Oxford, 1912; Ph. D. Harvard 1912; 1902, second year honors in the classics; 1903, member of Phi Beta Kappa (first eight); 1904:, final honors in the classics and degree summa cum laude; 1913, a First in Greats at Oxford; assistant in English and instructor in Greek and Latin for five years. For the past year Dr. Fobes has spent most of his time in the libraries of Italy and A us tria gathering material for an edition of the text of o·ne of the works of Aristotle. IN1 ()n ationE been] Sta: Kapp: Sigmc: Delta Psi U Delta ChiP Alpha Beta' Phi :C Phi G Pyrar Delta On Delta On Gams Th( 3) W( exam~ Dl \Prog Do~ Theol Tuesc chape th p· e . Pro youth regan 1noral of th( group n1an - '

INTER-FRATERNITY BASEBAL.L. Standing of Teams. ()n acocunt of rain and condition examin- ations the last week, several games have not been played. Standing of the fraternities to date: Old Fraternity League. Won. Lost. P .'C. Kappa Alpha ----------- 0 1 .000 Sigma Phi --------------- 1 0 1.000' Delta Phi ---------------- 0 1 .000 Psi Upsilon ---------·---- 1 0 Delta Upsilon ----------- 0 0 Chi Psi ---------·-------- 0 0 New Fraternity League. Won. Lost. Alpha Delta Phi --------- 0 1 Beta Theta Pi -------·---- 1 0 Phi Delta Theta --------- 1 0 Phi Gamma Delta -------- 0 Pyramid Club ----------- 0 Delta Theta Phi --------- 0 1 0 0 1.000 .000 jOOO P.C. .000 1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 On April 26 the Psi U's defeated the Delta Phi's by a score of 12-1. On April 27 the Phi Delts defeated the Phi Gams by the close score of 15-13. The following five games (April 28-Nay 3) were postponed on account of rain or exams. DR. ADAM SPEAKS IN CHAPEL. \Progress of Humanity and the Place of Youth\ Was the Subject of His Address. Doctor J. Douglas Adam of Hartfo·r~ Theological Seminary, gave an address Tuesday evening, April 20, in the college chapel on the \Progres of Humanity and the Place of Youth.\ Professor Adam compared the place that youth should have in the United States as regards civilization and with a great idea of 1noral good set up before him to that idea of the striving masses on Europe's battle grou~ds. Mr. Adam said, \It is youth, not 111an, v.vho shall be the springtin1e of the nevv 19 day in civilization and especially the youth of America, where masses of troops are not arrayed against each other in a life struggle. Since youth is the foundation for future and present trouble, it is a unique opportunity for him to prevent the same. The educated man of this age has the means in his grasp, but the question is, 'Does he care? Is his moral interest large enough to be aroused?' It is a duty to pass on to the future what has been invented from the glorious religious past. It is a great work for men to strive in the promotion of Jesus Christ, the religious equivalent of war, and to take up the challenge of deeper things in life to reach the goal in the progress of humanity.\ At chapel the next ~morning, Doctor Adam spoke for a part of the first period on the \Christian Ministry and its Calling for the College man.\ Professor Adam portrayed the opportunities of this .kind o.f life work for the real progressive man and the 1nan with an idea. Some of the students took advantage of the opportunity after the chapel exercises to have personal interviews with Doctor Adan1 in the president's office. Dr. Adam is a preacher, author and col- lege professor, a man of great prominence in theology. NOTED ALUMNUS DEAD. Sunday, April 25, Frederick W. Seward, LL. D., of the class of 1849, died at his home at Montrose-on-the-Hudson. His death takes away one of our oldest and n1ost illustrious alumni. Mr. Seward was the son of the famous Secretary of State under Lincoln and was hitnself Assistant Secre- tary of State during and after the war. NEW BOOKS FOR THE LIBRARY. The library has recently acquired a very fine set of the works of President Buchanan, edited by Prof. l\Ioore of Colun1hia. rrhe

20 THE C<)NCORDIENSIS publication o£ these books was provided for under the will of a relative of Buchan- an. In order to carry out the wishes of the t,estatri:xl' the residuary legatee decided to distribute the books which remained, by gift, to those libraries throughout the coun- try which would most appreciate them and vvhere they would do the most good. The library had very much desired these vol- umes, but had hesitated to purchase them because of their expense. The gift came at a very opportune tin1e, and the library in- curred only the expense of shipment. THE COULTER MEMORIAL. Contributions toward the memorial of Donald A. Coulter are coming into the hands of Chairman Blodgett, but rather slowly. The committee has not yet met to decide what form the memorial will take, but it will probably be decided by the end of this week. THE ENGLISH CLUB. . Gives Initiation Play by Dr. Hale. \Concordia Crescens\ was the name of the play which Dr. Hale wrote for the ini- tiation of the new members of the English Club on Friday night. Dr. N ott and John Howard Payne, who are honored as the founders of the English Club, were request- ing various poets to write a song for com- mencement, but none of the1n, not even Al- fred Noyes and \¥. B. Yeats, could satisfy the Doctor and John as well as that written by Fitzhugh Ludlo,v, \Vho gave the1n his \Ode to Old Union.\ A peep-show man shows to John Howard and his friend Sophy the college as it V\rill be in 1915 (the play takes place about 1810) and especially the round building in the center of the campus, erected for the meeting place of the Eng- lish Club. After the play, the initiates were invited by Dr. N ott to con1e forward and were duly admitted to tbe mysteries by Dr. Stewart. Those who were initiated were: C. Foster Brown '16, Mead Brunet '16, \V. C. Gun ... ning '16, Carl Danner '16, James Landreth '16, Paul Hauenstein '16, Avrom Jacobs '16, l\1ilton Sternfeld '16, and Morris Gilbert '17. The cast was : Prologue --------------------- Dr. Stewart Dr. N ott -----------------.,.------ 'r. Dent John Howard Payne -------- P. Cleveland Sophy --..---------------- ... ------ W. Baker W. B. Yeats ------------- L. De LaVergne i\lfred N ayes ----------- ........ Morland King Fitzhugh Ludlow ------ Harold Delchamps Peep-Show Man -------- Charles Waldron THE NORTHEASTERN LEAGUE BREAK-UP. Williams and Wesleyan Withdraw. As is generally known the break-up of the Northeastern Basketball League occurred shortly after the convention held in New York a few weeks ago. Foster Brown, who was elected president of the league at the convention, explained the reasons for the break-up as follows : Williams withdrew because her alumni complained that they were not playing enough· games in the large cities, and the faculty would not permit them to play in New York and elsewhere in addition to the league games. Wesleyan withdre'v because they found the trip fro1n Middletown to Hamil ton and Colgate to be too long. With Williams and Wesleyan out, Union and Colgate alone were left. Union felt that a league consisting of these two colleges alone would not be representa- tive of the northeastern colleges, and hence 'vithdrew. The league was started two years ago. EXPERIENCED IN DRAWING. Freshman: \I worked out that design to keep the wolf from the door.\ J. C.: \Well it did it if the wolf was any judge of drawing.\ ve11 . msc star we bes1 cha sati1 met

[j vou wan.t anyth1ng from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Te/eph one 12 8 5 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. For Our Mutual Benefit This store is not merely a commercial ventute. It is an institution that has become inseparably associated with the highest business standards of this locality. Appreciating our responsibilities to you, we have exerted every effort, guided by our best judgement, to provide only such mer- chandise as we are confident will give the satisfaction that makes and keeps real friends. So we have no hesitation in recom- mending such superior merchandise as- Steefel Quality Clothes Jollnston and Murphy Shoes Stetson Hats Manhattan Shirts 'Spring D:ispllay of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun 5 & lOc Wall .Paper Stare Everything in Wall Paper Nothing Over 1 Oc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. 411 STATE 'STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam l29-131 Glen St., Glens Falls CLEANliNESS lends you an additional charm. It is always an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs cl!eaning~all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cteaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State St. Smart Snug Fit Oxfords .... :Made! on t11e new EI:t~llsh .style last, with snug fit heel, and per· fect fl tUng. Nobby styles, all sizes and widths. No extra charge for our special fitting service. $4 to $8 PATTON & HALL 145 State StJ:oeet, Schenectad7.

More College News IN THE Read lt Every Day GAZETTE CLOTHES SHoP FoR Me:N 340 WASHINGTON 5TREC.._T BOSTON Suits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Quality Laundry 719 State Street Phone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. N. K. McNEILL NIEWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra , 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. FAREWELL GREETINGS TO TH,E SENIORS: Memory at best cannot reveal in future years, you as you are to-day. What say! What power then to portray? A duty you owe your friend-to have a Com- mencement Portrait made. This is your call: (Class rate /rom $4.50 up) The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop ~ulius 1£grr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable - ] A H.R On)J 442 \ c tior Bel Cu Sar 870 Ci~ St

l' Bellinger Paint Co. ~ti ~ ·~ ~ Walk-0\'er shoes will ta:ke •.. , - you anywhere and back. PAINTS, OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R. Zl .ta's Orch·estr. a furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, ' I o, • 1 I, 'I 2 ' ·1 3 & ' 14 , Best Dance Music in the World ~~~·tt~~e~t~~:~~:. 48 ~!eBetterfor Concert Office and Res., 167 Ham~ilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. · 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Nade to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wen dell & 1\.{orris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates ·to Students Telephone ,620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyes Tested and GJtlases Fitted THE ROLLINS.ON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. !

The Smoke of the Smart Set is not the ready-made or even ready-made-to-order cigarette. Smart men of fashion everywhere-club- men, connoisseurs, bon-vivants, millionaire sportsmen -have discovered the keener enjoyment and greater satisfaction in the fresh cigarettes of unique ·flavor and delicious mildness they roll for themselves, to suit their individual taste, from mellow \Bull\ Dur- ham tobacco. Today it is the very last word in correct form to \Roll Your Own.\ , GENUINE. 'BuLl DURHAM SMO:KING TOBACCO No other tobacco in the world has the wonderful sweet fragrance and ripe natural mildness of \Bull\ Durham. No other cigarettes have the exquisite smoothness and delightful fresh- ness of \Bull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes. \Bun·· Durham is a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment thor- oughly appreciated by smokers of experience and discrimination for the supreme, lasting, wholesome pleasure it affords. FREE An l!'lustra. ted Booklet!J · showing correct _ ___, way to ••R,q)lY our ~\\\ Own'' Cigarettes, and a ~ckage oE cigarette papers. will both be mailed, /ree, to any address in U.S. on request. Address ' .. Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. A•k for FREE pacAa6e of ~~paper& •' with each 6c •ack. ----- - ' ... Edw p F c .. 13

O,F COU~SE there is always a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these · calls· are most necessary. Save for the necessary ones In the The Sc'henectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTO-N The Edison Your Commencement Engraving American Pla·n All Qu,tside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Should be in Astor Text to be correct Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store ------' -----~ THE MOHICAN MARKET, b__ The Big Store Around the Corner l61 JAY STRE·BT, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Clothes Economy leads to THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler A full line of uncalled for Tailor Made Suits in All Styles at Half Price Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady ·clothing :co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hicl,ey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full · Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oake11' Sweaters ' The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 State Street Telephone '91-W · The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes :fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street :P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. The best part of aMURAD you cannot describe. But you recognize it instantly. And you never for• get it. 15c:. ~ Makera of the Hlghesf Grade Turkiah and Enptian Cigarellea In the World. Te - Rep1 H. Sna g Th l He Tel~ Spe Tel 42~ 30: 1 5

Stoll's Ho[brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. :MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the houseo Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. l Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices .. Dress Suits from $25 up. g Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909·W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Tcndcab Service Co. Phone 4489. E IT RAINS IN A HURRY . OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 :KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy batgllge with the 5 year guarantee ,.. .... ,\'\• 177 Jay Street --~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~c~., ... c\.(. Albany, N. Y. R·EPAIRINO SPALDING'S for :llea.rly forty years-have been the ones to think out, a11:d put on the market, things really new in sport. Are: you posted on just what's new this yearl A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . · . pa tng fOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S(!henectady'.s Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is nov complete. . An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 2Oth Century Lunch CHCX:OLA TE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady Art Press [~JE .. V4

[~JE·· ·s===:a5555E::555::555=e5::5:::.:::1· [jl. The Published Weekly by the Students of Union College Welcome 1919 VOL. 38 MAY 13, 1915 NO. 25

UNION UNIVERSI CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancenor U,NION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Cou:r•eM leading to the degree of A. D. CLASSICAL CouRSlt A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prereqttisite. 2. C&urme leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA'l'IN-Scr\E;N'l'IFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek; for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cou..l'se leading to the degree of B. S .. SciENTIFIC CouRSE- This course is based upon the study of rna thematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E .. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courl!lell leading to graduate degrees. CouRsE LE.ADING 'l'o DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CouRSE LltADING TO DEGREE ott M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. · CouRSE ,LEADING To DEGREE or PH4 D.-This cours® of two years of graduate study requires for admis~ sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady~~ N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to; WILLIS G. TucK~R, M. D., Registrax·, . Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J, NEWTON FntRo, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary, ''Everything tor the College Man except Ex11lll'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate c I

TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner • & Urner Shoes: $6,.00 to $8.50 · Known wl1erever Good .Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS.. CO. COR. STATE AND WAll. STS. The Cain's Leadinj! exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectad31 and Vicin- ity. New FLJpils received evefyMon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 tC> S and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointmeat. Assembly on Monday- .at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Pltofle 1920 Hall Pho#le '!710- W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS ~~9nja; 3 ~:;:t CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURBISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Sbirts and Collars, F()wnes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men. '

See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the splendid display of Babbitt Clothes as made by Rogers-Peel See the wond:erful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00 in America. We are sole agents in this tri·city territory for these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle Jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as 01le did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date ma·chine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 525 State Street Opposit~ Waiting Room Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawing Inks I Eternal W ritinat Ink Enatroasinat Ink I Taurine Mucilaate ~ Photo Mounter Paate I I l Drawing Board Paste Liquid Paate Office Paate Veatetable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Gl)lden Robin TEA RQOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, i: :; :i 1! ,, i !

George Randolph Chester . Famous Author • aaya: ••Wfay slaouldn't a mall ,be willing to recommend a tobacco which 6ivea a. cool, sweet and aatisfying a •moke era Tuxedo? 11 For MentallyAlert Men Tuxedo George Randolph Chester's \Get- Rich· Quick Wallingford\ stories have delighted thousands through the mental alertness, good humor and keen mind shown by the wily promoter. When George Randolph Chester writes of things typically American he knows what he is talking about; and when he endorses Tuxedo-the typically Ameri- can tobacco- his endorsement carries great weight with the keen-minded, alert and brainy smokers of this country. The Perfect Tohacco for Pipe and Cigarette is made especially to maintain the American spirit of good humor. Its constant use benefits a man in mind and body, by keeping him happy and physically lit. Tuxedo is the finest Kentucky Burley- the world's premier smoking-tobacco leaf-made absolutely non-biting by the original \Tuxedo Process\ that has never been suc- cessfully imitated. Tuxedo is delightfully mild, fragrant, rich, and gives a cool and satisfying smoke. Tuxedo is in a class by itself. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE ConTenient, glassine • wrapped, s . Famoua rreen tin, witL gold } o moisture-proof pouch • • • • C letterinr, cun·ed to fit pocket C In Tin Humidor3, 40c and 80c In GlassHumidors,50cand90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY 8 .•; I• , , ., ·.'. . .. :. . :·•

Our Represen:tative, Mr. Gorman, will be at the Edison Hotel on SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnisb.ings, Hats and Shoes Boston Branch 149 Tremont Street 1V ewport 11ranch 220 Bellevue Avenue We .Solicit Your Patronage. You N~eed Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano; House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' 1\rt ~tnrt To the American Colleges and Univeraitie1 from No. 7 New York Central Colonnade the Atlantic to the Pacift<:. Class contract• a specialty New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. UNION STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street · • I t l I J ·,I f \\ t~\'-H <Jtll'A'~ Y Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. i 'i - ·c ' , ;II ] ] ~ ! -

·Clothing Furnishings H,ats: We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each dep artm:en t. ~ Wells & ·Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' · li! Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores· CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN--~ HOTEL an:d Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, :N. Y GENTLEMEN C'NL Y 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bo-wling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 ·State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Fer~ Street Crea~ne~ 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom 'Made STYLI'SH CLOTHES Comparison is the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN · This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, :superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else-~ where. The convenience of an open account to all CoJlege Student is yours' for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. . The only ,machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns tb.e shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ ZOe Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 WI-liTE, 229 State Street CARL DANNER. Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle•e Repreaentat.ive 1915 ''RADNOR'' THE NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents .. Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back .of St. John's Church. 'Phone 291-W. 722 Eastern Ave. , VOL. ur J Uni of ba~ The s tain 1 tured hits o· hits c home Unior by M hit by ThE ing al \Vhitt ilton : while fith, ] Cow c in the With air-tig the nc threw out on ninth excitit esting and at bags, throu~ third < Twc inning

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 MAY 13, 1915 NO. 25 UNION OPENS HOME SEASON By Defeating Hamilton, 4 to 3. Union defeated Hamilton in a slow game of baseball on the campus last Saturday. The score was 4 to 3. The return of Cap-- tain Teedie Woods to the line-up was fea- tured by his remarkable record of five safe hits out of five times at bat. Three of these hits came at opportune times and brought home Jake Beaver, who scored three out .of Union's four runs. The first runs was score·d by Moynihan in the first inning aiso on a hit by Woods. The game was loosely played, errors be- ing abundant. Hummer fanned 13 men} \Vhitman, Hamilton's pitcher, 10. Ham- ilton made 10 hits off H urn mer's delivery, while Union cornered 14 safe bingles. Grif- fith, Hamilton's second baseman, and W. Cow each got three hits. Griffith's last hit in the ninth inning being a three-bagg-er. With none out Hun1mer proceeded to play air-tight ball, fanning the next man, forcing the next man to pop to Rosecrans who threw him out at first, and getting the third out on a fly to Moynihan. This was in the ninth with the score tied and was the most exciting moment of an otherwise uninter- esting game. In the tenth a base on balls and an error put two Hamilton men on the bags with none out. Ag-ain Hummer came through, fanning two m.en and cutting the third down on a fly to Zimmer. Two of Union's runs came in the first inning. After Dave Beaver went out, pitch- er to first, Moynihan singled and was ad- vanced to third on Jake Beaver's single and a wild pitch upon which Jake went to sec- ond. Both men came home when Teedy \V oods' single to left field was slowly hand- led. In the fifth with two down, Jake Beav- er singled and stole second. Teedy brought him home on a single . In the tenth the winning run was scored after Moynihan had fanned, when Jake Beaver singled, stole second and took third on a wild pitch. Teedy's last and fifth hit brought him over the pan. The; game by innings : First Inning. Hamilton: Hummer got in a hole and hit Griffith. Gow got a life and advanced Grif- fith on an error but was out stealing. Behan hit safe hut was out at second. Erhardt scored Griffith on a single and McLouth was out, Moynihan to Houghton. One run. Union: Dave Beaver died, pitcher to first. Moynihan singled. Jake Beaver singled, took second with Moynihan going to third on a wild pitch. Woods scored Moynihan and Jake Beaver on a single. I-Ioughton flied out. Zimmer singled, Rose~ crans fanned. Second Inning. Hamilton: W. Gow hit safe and took second when Hun1mer's throw to catch him at first was wide. Daniels fanned. Miller was safe on a fielder's choice that left W. Gow safe on third. Whi tn1an struck out. Houghton got 'Griffith's foul fly.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Union: Friday fanned. I-Iummer popped to pitcher. Dave Beaver flied out to left. Third Inning. I-Iamilton: Hummer hit M. Gow. Be- han was out, Hummer to Houghton. Erh- ardt got a base on balls. Dave Beaver's throw caught hitn going down to second, but M. Gow scored on the return. Mc- Louth got a pass. W. Gow hit safe. Daniels fanned. One run. lJ nion : Moynihan died, Griffith to Erh- ardt. Jake Beaver fanned. Woods singled but Houghton was out, McLouth to Erh- ardt. Fourth Inning. Hamilton: For three innings only nine 1nen faced I-I urn mer. Griffith breezed. M. Gow out, Rosey to Houghton. Behan fan- ned. lTnion: Erhardt got Zimmer unassisted at first. Rosecrans singled. Bill Friday whiffed. H urn mer flied out to center. Fifth Inning. Hamilton: Erhardt whiffed. Bill Friday got McLouth's fly. W. Go\v fanned. Union : Dave Beaver lo-fted out to Dan- iels, the spectacled out-gardener, in center. Moynihan popped to short. Jake Beaver scratched a single through second. He stole second clean. Teedy lifted his second Texas Leaguer to left and brought Jake home. Jenkins ran for Woods, started down for second, made a perfect slide but found the ball pasted on his back on the way down. Three runs. Sixth Inning. Hamilton: Daniels, the spectacled out- gardener, drifted to Jake Beaver. Miller ozoned to Dave, and Hummer demolished Whitman on three good ones. Union: Houghton singled, tried to go down while Zimmer was fanning but was out at second. Tubby Rosecrans perform- ed his second whirling act of the afternoon and walked back to the bench on three fast balls. S.eventh Inning. Hamil ton : Griffith singled and went down when Dave's throw to Babe was bad. ThtL Govv sung ·thrice and retired. Behan did likewise. Erhardt's singled put 'Griffith over the rubber but McLouth cupolaed to Rose- crans. Union: Friday was out, Griffith to Erh- ardt. So was Hummer. So was Dave Beav- er. Eighth Inning. Han1ilton: The other Gow (W.) hit safe. 1-Ie went to second on Dan~els' sacrifice. MiUer singled but Rosecrans' throw to the plate was fast and :straight and the other Gow (W.) was out. Rosey swallowed Whit- lnan:\ s lawn-cutter and wafted it to first in front of him. Union: Moynihan was out, Griffith to Erhardt (the fourth man in succession to go out ·by the same route.) Erhardt step- ped in front of Jake .Beaver's fast grounder and carried it to first before him. Woods singled, Friday ran for him and stole second. Houghton fanned. Ninth Inning. Han1ilton: Right off the reel like a thun- der1)olt, Griffith tripled and pulled up way ahead of the ball. \If we don't win this garne right here we might as well quit/' hollered McLouth from the coaching lines. Hanmer agreed with him. M. Gow suc- cun1bed to three seductive slants and walk- ed back to the bench. Griffith was danc- ing- on third as Behan walked to the plate swiaging three big clubs. Behan looked a couple over, then busted one down between first and second. Tubby Rosecrans rose to the occasion, plucked the ball clean of£ the ground and snapped it over to Houghton whc made the out. Griffith was still danc- ing- on third, with two down. Captain Erh- ardt \ras up. He didn't wait at all but peel- ed a mighty wallop. This wallop instead of going straight out went straight up. When the Garnet team got sight of it again up in '~ the e over arour 'Then and r glove Un ed or single safe I throu lude Hum Dave ardt: Ha was Dani ligin~ whoE \Vhi1 Ur Beav HeJ Teed hit 0 Jake Se· Tb D.B Moy J. Bt \Voc Hou. Zimt Rost: Frid Hun 1

THE CONC\ORDIENSIS 11 the ether it seen1ed to be floating around over Moynihan's head. Moynihan danced around expectantly for five n1inutes or so. 'Then the ball came down and Frank met ~t and nursed it carefully in the bosom of his glove. All over for the int;1ing. Union : Victory looked to be safely perch- ed on the G~rnet standards when Zim1ner singled. Rosecrans and Zimmer were both safe on a fielder's choice. Whitman came through, ho,:vever, when after a long inter- lude Galbraith, batting for Friday, fanned. Hummer watched three good ones go by and Dave Beaver was out by the Griffith- Erh- ardt route. Tenth Inning. Hamilton: McLouth walked. W. Gow was safe when Moynihan foozled the ball. Daniels, the spectacled out-gardener, ob- ligingly fanned. Miller flied to Zimmer, whose throw kept McLouth from scoring. \Vhitman fanned. It was a thrilling inning. Union: Moynihan breezed, but Jake Beaver came through with his third single. He promptly stole second. Right here Teedy busted up the game with another hit out between third and left field on which Jake scored. Secore: Union 4, Hamilton 3. The summary: UNION. A.B. R. H. P.O. A. D. Beaver, c. _____ 5 0 0 14 3 Moynihan, ss. ~'\!\-~\'!\\' 5 1 1 3 1 J. Beaver, lf. _____ 5 3 3 1 0 \Voods, 3b (Capt.) 5 0 5 0 1 Houghton, 1 b ____ 4 0 1 8 0 Zimmer, cf. ------ 4 0 2 1 0 Rosecrans, 2b 4 ' 0 2 2 •1 ---- Friday, rf. ------- 4 0 0 1 0 Humn1er, p. ------ 4 0 0 0 14 Totals -------- 40 4 14 30 23 HAMILTON. A.B. R. H. P.O. A. Griffith, 2h ------- 5 2 3 2 6 l\1. Gow, 1£. ------- 5 1 1 2 {) Behan, ss. ------- 4 0 1 2 0 Erhardt, lb. ---·-- 4 0 2 9 0 McLouth, 3b ·------ 3 0 0 0 1 Vv. Gow, rf. -·---- 5 0 3 0 0 Daniels, cf. ------ 4 0 0 2 0 11iller, c. --------- 5 0 0 10 2 vVhitman, p. ------ 5 0 0 1 11 Totals -------- 40 *One .man out when 3 10 *28 20 . . w1nn1ng run was scored. Struck out, by Hummer, 13; by Whitman, 10. Base on balls, off Hummer, 3; off VVhitman, 0. Sacrifice hit-Daniels. Er- rors, Hummer, I-Ioughton, Moynihan, D. Beaver, VVhitman. Hit by pitcher, Griffith, lVL Cow. Three base hit-Griffith. Two base hit-Woods. Umpire, Glenn. MOVING-UP DAY. Saturday morning the annual moving-up exercises will be held. After the usual chapel exercises, which the seniors will at- tend in gowns, President Hokerk will call a regular meeting to order. The seniors will give up their seats in the south trancept and march around the chapel singing the senior class song. The juniors will fall in behind the seniors and the present Terrace Council will step out of line and take four men from the junior class for the council of next year. The sophomores will then march around, following the juniors and the freshmen will also be in the line following the sophomores. Each class will then take the seats previously occupied by the pre- ceding class. Marshal Gerrit Wood will render \Alouette.\ At the conclusion of the chapel progran1 the entire student body will march to the idol where the underclassmen will adminis- ter the white paint, signifying the cessa·-

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS tion of all hostilities. The freshmen will bid farewell to their caps as they toss them into a blazing bonfire. The inter-class track meet will then follow. MOVING-UP DAY INTERCLA.SS MEET Next Saturday, ~1oving-Up Day, in place of the usual interscholastic meet, an inter- class college tneet will be held. This is to be an annual event at which medals of silver and bronze will be awarded. The strictly intra-n1ural nature of these contests should arouse a spirit of rivalry between the four classes at college and should be accom- panied by enthusiastic backing for the var- ious teams by the student body. Twelve events will make up the meet. All these except the hammer throw, which will be held on Saturday morning at 11 o'clock, will occur Saturday afternoon. Four places in the runs will be counted-the points counting 5, 3, 2 and 1. A silver medal will be awarded for :first place, a bronze for sec- ond, and ribbons for third and fourth. The Gazette cup will be awarded to the winning class. On Wednesday at 4 :00 P. M. the trial heats for the four events-the 100 yard dash, the 120 high hurdles, the 220 yard dash, and the 220 low hurdles, were run off owing to the large entry list in each of the events. Results were received too late to be in- cluded in this number of the Conco·rdiensis. The entries for each event are as follows: 100 yard dash-1915, ; 1916, Mallen; 1917, Morrison; 1918, Taylor, Y ounie, North- rop, Swart, Calhoun, Epstein. One mile run-1915, Blodgett; 1916, New- ton, Gunning· DeForrest; 1917, Majewski, \Vallace, Upp; 1918, Akins, Hance, Peaslee, JVIc Kenna, Moore, McLean, Morris. 120 yard high hurdles-1915, Hunter; 1916, Mallen, Butler; 1917, Hyatt; 1918, Tell, 'f'aylor, Younie. 440 yard dash-191 5, Dent; J 916, Stoller; 1917, Morrison, Downs, Bahret, Girling; 1918, Tayior, Younie, Mudge, Northrop, Heatley, Newman. Two mile run-1915, Blodgett; 1916, N evv- ton, Gunning; 1917, Majewski, Upp ;. 1918, McKenna, Hance, Peaslee, McL.ean. 220 yard low hurdles-1915, Hunter; 1916_, Mallen, ButJ,er; 1917, Hyatt; 1918, Taylor, Y ounie, Epstein. 220 yard dash-1915, Dent; 1916, Mallen; 1917, Morrison, Downs; 1918, Taylor, Younie, Mudge, Northrop, Swart, Heatley, Calhoun, Epstein, Newman. 16 pound hammer-1915, ; 1916, Stoller, Gardner; 1917, Jamieson; 1918, Hay, Rockwell. 16 pound shot-1915, ; 1916, Stoller, Gadner; 1917, Jamieson, Miller Peterson, Girling; 1918, Ray, Rockwell. Polt vault-1915, ; 1916, Butler; 1917, MiHer, Jan~ieson; 1918, Hoag. High jump-1915, ; 1916, Butler; 1917, Miller, Peterson; 1918, Tell, Calhoun, Rockwell. Broad jump-1915, ; 1916, Mallen, Butler; 191'1, Peterson, Miller; 1918, Rock- well, Mudge, Calhoun, Taylor, Newman, Heatley. TRACK TEAM VICTORIOUS. Top-heavy Score in R. P. I. Track Meet. For the fifth time this year a Union ath- letic team triun1phed over our old rivals, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. This time our track team defeated the Institute boys 'vi th ease. The final score was : Union, 87~; R. P. I., 380. Mallen of the Union team was the individual star of the meet. Phil carried away three firsts and a second. In the broad jump he broke the college record with a jump of 22 feet 2~ inches. This jump beat the previous record, held by Jimmy Baker, by one inch. Morrison ran two very pretty races in the dashes, which resulted in ten points for the victors. Eutler placed in four events and Stoller and Hay showed up well in the weight events. Moore a a we I., ter Jol se< thl M< thi Ur Ti1 J fin thi De Tit 1 lak tr· .11 2 Bu thi ] ma Tit Ba thi· ] Stc Di~ I tie< He I len one 1 firs Un I Un Dh

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 aad Peaslee, two first year men, did good work, both winning their letters. For R. P. I., Gifford ran a very pretty race in the quar~ ter and Reves made good time in the mile. Johnson, in the weight events, got a. first, a second, and tied for third in the discus throw. Summaries: 100 yard dash-Morrison, Union, first; Mallen, Union ,second; BaUeisen, R. P. I., third. Time, 10 3-5. One mile run-Reves, R. P. I., first; Akins, Union, second; McKenna, Union, third. Time, 4:50. 120 yard high h urdles-Mallen, Union, first; Masle.n, R. P. L, second; Butler, Union, third. Time, 17 1-5. 440 yard dash-Gifford, R. P. I., first; Dent, Union, second; Mudge, Union, third. Time, 54 4-5. Two mile run-Peaslee, Union, first; Kers- lake, R. P. I., second; Gunning, Union, third. trime, 10 :40 1-5. 220 yard low hurdles-Mallen, Union, first; Butler, Union, second; Loomis, R. P. I., third. Time, 23 3-5. Half mile run-Moore, Union, first; Gi1- man, Union, second; Dean, R. P. I., third. Time, 2 :07 4-5. 220 yard. dash-Morrison, Union, first; Balleison, R. P. I., second; Breese, R. P. I., third. Time, 23 seconds flat. 16 pound shot put-Johnson, R. P. I., first; Stoller, Union, second; Hay, Union, third. Distance, 38 ft. 7 3-4 in. Pole vault-Jamieson and Butler, Union, tied for first place; Kerslake, R. P. I., third. Height, 10 ft. 3 in. High jump-Peterson, Union, first; Mas- len, R. P. I., and Butler, Union, tied for sec- ond place. Height, 5 ft. 5 in. 16 pound hammer throw-Stoller, Union, first; Johnson, R. P. I., second; Jamieson, Union, third. Distance, 108 ft. 4 in. Broad jump-Mallen, Union, first; Mudge, Union, second; Westervelt, R. P. I., third. Distance, 22 ft. 2 ~ in. (College record.) Discus throw-Hay, Union, first; Collins, R. P. I., second; Stoller, Union, third. Dis- tance, 9'9 ft. 1 in. TEN.NIS TEAM ALSO WINS. Vermont and Stevens Defeated. Keeping up the good record of Union vic- tories the tennis team has scored two vic- tories during the past week. In the V er- mont game on Thursday, May 6, :Soler and Beckett won their singles and in the doubles Soler and Beckett, and Girling and Brown were victorious. The score in the Stevens game last Sat- urday was: Singles. Girling defeated Wiley, 6-8, 6-4, 6-3. Beckett defeated Williamson, 2-6, 6-2, 6-1. Brown defeated Appleton, 8-6, 6-4. Captain Soler defeated Snow, 6-2, 2-6, 6-4. Doubles. Wiley and Williamson of Stevens defeat- ed Soler and Girling, 6-2, 6-1. Appleton and Snow defeated Brown and Beckett, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. Saturday, May 15, the team will face Col- gate. In view of the results of the recent n1atches the team will give Colgate a fast contest. Captain Soler wishes the students to avoid using the college courts when they are wet so that they may be in good condition throughout the season. DR. ORDWAY SPEAKS. On Friday 111orning, l\1ay 7, of last week, Doctor Ord\vay, of Albany Medical College, spoke to the students in chapel. Doctor Ordway discussed the new system, includ- ing number in classes, faculty, and courses which are being instituted in that college and showed the advantages of the smaJl medical college. Under the new system, the l\1:edical College is entirely under the con- trol of Union University, which will be a great benefit to the college and university.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS FRITZ'S APOTHEOSIS·. (A True Story of '''Blood .and Iron.\) The college may sink back in its various arm chairs with a blissful sigh of relief and security. Only last Saturday it was dem- onstrated that as a college we are well pro- tected from invasion. vVhen the stranger vvithin our gates is within our gates for a peaceable and laudable purpose the said stranger will meet with every courtesy, every an1.enity, every grace of hospitality. But let him con1e with lowering, beetling brows, with fixed biceps, with war paint and intent to kill, then and only then can we test our strong arm squad, our rivers in the desert, our balm of Gilead, our sweet peace, and our sleep that knits up the raveled slieve of care, trusting and confident, secure and serene-sure of protection even among enemies! For have we not Fritz? Fritz, the man-mountain; Fritz the all- capable; Fritz, the General Staff; Fritz, the super-man, the big blond (by poetic li- cense) beast of Brother Nietszche's framing; Fritz, the inscrutable; Fritz, the strong right arn1 of the law; the preserver of the op- pressed ; the squire o.f dames (and damsels) ; the very parfit gentil knight; the powerful; the Gemutlich; the Uberhauptman; the Spie1meister; the imperturable; the perfect! For only last Saturday did the stranger within our gates show his true metal-a piano-tnover it was, we believe, or some other species of vile creature. At any rate Fritz was attacked. Or Fritz attacked for cause, one of the two. What care we? The event occurred. If Fritz attacked, undoubtedly the fair name of our college would have been hun1bled had he not; if Fritz was attacked, it was a dastardly deed and merited its vengeful punishment. At any rate, there was a melee, a scrim- mage, a bruit of arms, a tourney, a joust, an assault, a.shindy, a whirling, struggling mass of energy in operation-Oh, if Brother Frois- sart were only here to describe this terrible affair at arms. No effeminate hiding in trenches, no mi- trailleuses, no leaves of absence, no treaties, no scraps of paper. Ah, we shudder; we cringe; we shake; we are epouvantee, ablouiee; accablee; it was all so affreuse; so palpitant! Ah, but the tertnination, the end, the finale -For Fritz, the victor's crown, the paln1, the myrtle, the honey of Hybla, the oil td gladness. He won, he beat, he conquered, he licked, he bit, scratched, beat, pawed, jammed, slammed, cleaned, cracked, walloped, busted the guy so effesoffiloffously that there wasn't anything to it. For the other guy-ignominy, vinegar and brown paper, six months in the accident ward, one foot in the grave-bah ! Hoho la belle j aune giroflee! It was abracadabra! \Jacobs your audience didn't understand your speech in the debate the other night.\ \Good it took me seven hours to write it that way.\ UN Ab Natioj tablisl Schen ~1ay 1 agent tion, ' ton, i~ brancl At~ n1an 1 liver a an or~ ties. BetwE annua accide .250 li New· For alread Union learn low's: ing, M Hall. Foll ficatio buttor 1. 0 USlng stroke 2. bring 3. ods of 4. strang 5. the S3 drown 6. any fi, 1.

THE CONCOR.DIBNSIS 15 UNION TO HAVE LIFE SAVING CORPS. A branch of the Life Saving Corps of the National Red Cross· Association will be es- tablished at Union CoUe,ge as well as at the Schenectady Y. M. C. A. this month. On ~1ay 17, Commodore W. E. Longfellow, field agent for the National Recl Cross Associa- tion, whose headquarters are at Washing- ton, is coming to the college to found the branch here. At 7 :30 Monday evening, May 17, in Silli- n'lan Hall, Commodore Longfellow will de- liver an illustrated talk on the needs of such an organization and the scope of its activi- ties. Advance notices give these statistics. Between 5,000 and 7,000 people are drowned annually in the United State. 456 drowning accidents ocurred in New York City in 1912. .250 lives were saved in the same year in New York City. Forty men from the freshman class are already enrolled in the Life Saving Corps o£ Union College. Upperclassmen are urged to learn the work and to attend Dr. Longfel- low's lecture which occurs on Monday even- ing, May 17th, at half past seven at Silliman Hall. Following are the requirements for quali- fication for the life-savers' certificate and button: 1. Demonstration o£ ability to swim, using breast stroke, side stroke and back stroke. 2. Ability to do a good plain dive and to bring up a weight from the bottom. 3. Demonstration of three different meth ... ods of carrying a person in the water. 4. Ability to break three different strangle holds in the water. 5. Demonstration of the Schaeffer and the Sylvester n1.ethods of resuscitating a drowned person by artificial respiration. 6. Passing of a written examination on any five of the following questions: 1. Why is the Schaeffer method o£ re- suscitating a suffocated person better than the Sylvester method ? '2. 1-Iow would you n1ake the water front ,of your city safer from drowning accidents? 3. How would you recover a drowned person in eighteen teet of water? 4. How long would you work to resus- citate a drowned person before giving up life? 5. What swimming strokes are best adapted to life saving? '6. If you had to disrobe in the water ln what order would you remove your articles .of clothing? '7. Why should swin1n1ing be taught as part of a public school education? 8. What should a policeman know about ftrst aid and life saving? 9. How- would you safeguard a boys' water-front camp; 10. Why should canoeists understand swimming? 11. Has the water-front property lessee legal responsibility about preventing drown·- ing accidents? 12. How would you approach a drown- ing person in a ro-w boat? In a canoe? And if swimming? All students wishing to qualify as mem- bers o£ the life saving corps should enroll with Doctor McComber at once. A list of the tests is posted in the pool. Nearly all the colleges which have swim- nJ.ing pools are taking up this work. ·Commodore Longfellow hopes to enlist the interest of the police and :fire depart- lnents of Schenctady in this work. NOTICE! The New York State Library wants to purchase a copy of Raymond's \History of Union College.\ Address Librarian Clin.-. ton, Union College.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News W e.ekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --------------------- 705 Nott Street. ASSISTAN1' EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---------- Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTAN1' LITERARY EDITOR, James B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDTT!ORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter, '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17'. REPORTERS: F~ :G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '1.8; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; ]. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J. J, Welch, Jr., '18. SECRET AR\Y F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 -- Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at tl1.e Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A VICTORIOUS DAY. Saturday's victories will long re1nain a bright page in Union's athletic history. The results were due to what we have always so strongly sought to encourage-training and support. The students who cheered the teams from the side-lines may claim a share in the victory of their fellows who competed on the athletic field. The track 1neet first claims our attention. It was the one thing necessary to estab- lish our athletic superiority over our neighbor, R. P. I., and to \make good\ for the indoor meet which we were obliged to cancel last winter on account of our inadequate facilities for traiaing inside. There were tnany features of the meet which were espec- ially notevvorthy, but cannot here be commented upon separately without showing par- tiality to individual men. The plucky contests of those who were unsuccessful deserve equal credit with those who succeeded because there was no \lying down\ and no display of \weak knees.\ The men put the best they had into the fight without re- serve, with the result the victory for which vve are justly proud. To Captain Dent and his team we give the thanks and congratulations of the college for their victory in the first n~eet of the season. The extra outlay for equipment and the untiring care of Dr. McComber have not been 1nisspent. Immediately following the track meet, the baseball tea1n caug4t the contagion and presented the college with another victory. The game was closely contested as was ex- pected, the Buff and Blue having themselves promised us a stiff garne. The ninth inning found the opposing teams still tied with three points to the credit of each. Thus far a little ragged work had been repaired by some exhibitions of excellent ball and it only ren1ained for Union to tip the balance by one point at the end of the tenth and carry off the victory. Throughout the ga1ne, the team had hearty support from the blea< ents. ure 1 u~ar 'Tho1 both port V\rell Tl be 01 In V\ to fl~ precc the r we s in tl illOVI whic and grou finis] co He an e ers t in tb ten 1 finar erec1 COID] easil An1e c.oll<: payi: and poli< shal:

THE CON·CORDIENSIS 17 bleachers, commending good plays and encouraging the players at the critical mom- ents. The spirit of good--fello\vship between the teams which always makes it a pleas~ ure to play with ~amilton, was at all times manifest. Meanwhile the tennis team, almost forgotten in the exciten1ent of the more pop- u~ar sports, was quietly fighting its way to victory over the visiting Stevens team. 'Though we cannot in person support two teams at the same tin1e, we can praise them both, and to the tennis team is all credit for a successfuiD endeavor witho·ttt the sup- port of loyal friends which always adds so much to the pleasure of playing a game as V\rell as to the chances of winning it. UNION'S PATRIOTIC DUTY. Though Union is a well equipped college in nearly every respect, there seems to be one thing which she conspicuously lacks. This is a flag staff and an American flag. In writing this, we do not know how customary it is for American colleges generally to float the national ensign nor do we think that Union should seek the sanction o£ precedent in making this change. As an American college, known far and wide among the nations of the world, and educating within our walls students from many countries, we should consider it one of our most highly prized rights to proclaim our nationality in this becoming and patriotic way. There are many things to be said in favor of this movement. In the first place, the presence above our halls of learning of that emblen1 which syn1bolizes those things for which vvhich our nation stands helps to 1nake better and more patriotic citizens by constantly keeping the idea of nationality in the fore- ground. Again the very beauty of a flag floating at the head of its staff would be a finishing touch to Union's already beautiful campus. Besides this, it would make the college more conspicuous to passers-by on the railroad and could have none other than an effect beneficial to Union upon the minds of those who were otherwise total strang·- ers to her. We believe also that the alumni o-f Union who fought for the greater Union in the Civil War would be pleased to see that the younger generation had not forgot- ten what they so ·valiantly strove for. With so n1uch in favor and nothing, save the financial side, against, we can see no reason why the college should not go ahead and erect a commanding staff and hoist a sui table flag immediately so as to have the change completed in time for the reunion of the war classes this commencement. The cost of a pole and flag, even though they should be the best obtainable, could easily be defrayed by the college. Every student and alumnus who is a patriotic An1erican should be glad to give a half dollar or more to the fund if necessary. Tl-Ie c.ollege itself should support the movement to the extent of furnishing the site and paying the cost of erection. Here is a plan for the ilnmediate and careful consideration of all loyal Union men and patriotic A1nericans. We believe that it is in keeping with Union's constructive policy to see to it that henceforth over her halls \the star-spangled banner in triumph shall wave!\

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS ,On Your Way Of errors typographical, The one that makes me sore, Is to read three lines of poetry Followed by \GALLEY 4\ in large capitals, entirely destroying the con ... tinuity and causing a shock to the aesthetic sense, which gets one's animal, Englishly speaking. Clytie. P. S.: Clytie is Hafiz for Clytemnestra. 'rhe top of the column for you, Clytie! We believe, being young ourselves, in teaching the young idea how to shoot. Now after some of the mute inglorious Miltons have seen how great honor comes of stringing a lot of junk together so that two words rhyme, perhaps a few more contribs will experience the call to contribute their quota (first fami- liar quotation from Grey, 2nd £. q. from Browning). OURS IS A CONSTRUCTIVE POLICY. . ..1-\n addition to ourlndependentCommence- n1.ent ticket: Floyd Sterling (see below) for Marshal. Floyd Sterling (see below) has had a number of years' experience as chie£ of the Keystone police force and in our opin- ion would be an efficient marshal. As the ticket now stands we have: For Honorary Chancellor, Charles Chaplin. For Salutatorian, Fatty Arbuckle. 'ro present the diplo·mas, Mabel N o.rmand. For Marshal, Floyd Sterling (see below.) V\T e have yet to select our Valedictorian. Nominations are in order. BELOW. Owing to the execrable habit of omitting. the names of the participants in the comedies ,vhich the old Keystone Company put out, we are uncertain of the name of the pet- son whom vve take to be Floyd Sterling. No less an authority on Keystone con1edy than H .. R. lCnight of Glens Falls and Schenectady has, however, assured us that Floyd SterJ .. ing is the gentleman's name. So we let it go at that. WHO WRITES THE \MOSES VINEY'' VERSES? Two weeks ago we announced that we would name the author of the lyrics w4ich appear weekly in the Concordiensis. Our cogitations have, however, taken longer than we surmised they would. Hence it is only after weighty and mature consideration that we announce the Column's guess as to the author. We believe him to be J>resident Charles Alexander Richmond of Union Uni ... versity. HOW ABOUT THE SCOTIA YELLOW BUS? Dear Hafiz: This was heard in Concordiensis meeting lVlonday: Chappy : I've been w9rking to beat the cars . Jeff: Whacha doin'? Runnin' a jitney? Sincerely yours, TO THE PROOF-ROOM. vV e give you credit. Pete. WHAT THE WELL-DRESSED MAN WILL WEAR. Dear Hafiz: As long as we have to wear something after sweat-shifts, I suggest pajamas. They are absolutely proper for evening wear. Clytemriestra. OUR NATURAL ENEMIES. Dr. Richmond entertained I-Iall last Monday afterno-on. faculty were present. in Wash burn Many of the Thi certai he reb that, in par extra< ana to: er's a Th( tain. Th~ soon vvritt<: 'The 1 forma of the of th~ Latin ·motif thoro1 easily .. 1can o full c feroci1 ex rna tellari Cerbe The c 1ng sc scene when (Aust: rnent use. 1 ca:l m1 remin Greek scene tl1e st; Da1na PAN, Si gre

THE CONCORDJI:tNSIS 19 Thi.s column is on intimate terms with a certain unpopular college organization and hereby is authorized to give off<icial notice that, Fritz to the contrary, it as a whole or in part had nothing· whatever to do with the extracting of certain fundamentals of human anatomy from the purlieus of Dr. M·cComb- er's attic recently. The Purity League has its honor to main- tain. ''Tell, what's the matter? HAFIZ. PAN SOTER. The Classical Club of Union College is soon to present an original Latin comedy vvritten for the Club by Professor Kellogg. 'The premiere (perhaps the -derniere) per- formance will be given in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium before the invited guests of the club. The play, which is written in Latin iambic senarii, is based on an ancient ·motif dng out of Horace and applied to a thoroughly modern situation, such as might easily arise in the student life of any Amer- ican college. The action is brisk, varied and full of con1ic by-plays. Foster Brown's ferocious bulldog, Peter Pan, is the deus ex machina, the dog-motif of Plautus' Mos- tellaria being combined with the Cynico- Cerberus motif of ancient popular satire. The climax of the plot, to which the open- ing scenes quickly lead, is foreshadowed in scene V and reached in scenes VII- VIII, when through the ready wit of A ugustinus (Austin l\1artin) a solution for the entangle- rnent is discovered and immediately put to Use. The arrival of Augustinus at the criti- cal moment and hastening the denouement reminds one of the Messenger's role in Greek dratna! At the end of the play in scene IX the whole troupe appears upon tl1e stage before the footlights and the slave Da1na, acting as Cantor, announces: PAN SOTBH. acta est tota nostra comoedia; Si grex acceptus est, valete et plaudite. B:etow is printed the cast and an Eng- lish translation of the prologue and part of scene YII, which wil11nake clear the plot: PAN SOTER Comoedia Chiliogi Agetur a Grege Universitatis Concordiae Schenectadae in Gymnasio Die XXV Mensis Maii Modos :Fecit Astropedius Tibiis Imparibus 'et Fidibus Drama tis Personae. Protogas ----------------- A. M. Jacobs 'l.f) Dam<t,. :servus --------------1. R. Stein '18 Silvius, poeta ___________ M. D. DeForest '16 Aristiurt\-:ti.scus adulescens_J. C. Younie '18 Primus ----------------]. C. Tregurtha '11 Secundus -------------- W .0. Clough 'l'( Tertius --------------------- P. Hoag '18 Ouartus ----------------- R. T. Allen '16 ...., Discipuli, adulescentes, Universitatis. Pantolabus, caupo _____ M. D. Ketchum '16 Astrope<lius, florum venditor ---------- ---- ----------------M. H. Sternfeld '16 Sartoritts, sartor -------- R. E. Taylor '16 Gorg()~ vestilavatrix ------J· \TV. Gauger '11(1 Augusiinus, adulescens ___ A. G. Martin '15 Bene<lictus, grammaticus --J. I. Bennett '90 Chiliologus, grammaticus __ G. D. Kellogg Ambrosius adulescens ______ A. M. Clark '15 Dentatu.s adulescens ____ T. A. Dent, Jr., '1,5 Pantomimi, adulescentes Universitatis. PAN, m. uta persona. Acti() fit in Aristii Fusci cubiculo apud fratern.itatem quae . Iota Omega Upsilon, appellatur. Prologue (Translation). Our rn odest dra1natist has culled his phrase According to his need from Terence plays. Chiliol()gus deemed the pilfered thought more sane Than. thoughts rough ha1nmered fron1 his weary brain. As good old bottles vvill excel fresh brew, So good old words ring futler than the new. Now nark, my friends, lest any go astray, Lend ne your ears, I'll start ye on your way!

20 THE CONC,QRDIENSIS Though in this play the words are cribbed, the plot Is modern, of this very day and spot. Within this house you ·see, a youth doth dwell, 'lhe latest model of a howling swell, Ey fortune favored with a family tree And parents rich as millionaires might be. c'Wh.y is he sad to-day?\' you ask per- chance? He fain would revel at the junior dance! :But badgered by his creditors and duns, He dreams of unpaid bills,-the dance he shuns! Nay, worse than this, he took too many bolts, And so the faculty, who break young colts And run the college, have put up the bars ; He's on \'probation the blow that jars! Within the campus' bounds he must this week Study his Latin and old plays in Greek. And yet this evening he will try by tricks ::Both duns and philosophic dons to fix! Our play, Pan Soter, will a Greek name bear; Pan strikes the faculty 'vith panic fear. A huge blind tnonster, ugly, furious, This Pan will save young Fuscus Aristius, Pan faithful Cerberus of his master's doors, Putting to flight the dons and creditors! This Fuscus is the youthful prodigal \Vho lives in here with his best student pal, At the I. 0. U. fraternity's expense. Now friends keep silence, listen in sus- pense! (Exit Prologtts.) Extract ftom Scene VII. Aristius: I'm on probation, so I may not dance .. I wish the \profs\ would give me half a chance! Augustinus: Perhaps you do not play up like a man! If I might help you, I'll suggest a plan. You know I'm Augustin us famed for guile: Take one of 1ny ''Confessions\ just on trial! When I was verdant green in freshman year, I flunked my work, consistently, I fear. Despairing, sick, bent on the final plunge, I had no plan except \throw up the sponge.\ Yet in my aching gloom a ray of light Flashed out of Horace, saving me that night! How Faun us saved him in his hour of gloom, What time the accursed tree-trunk, threat- ening doom, Had crushed the poet, had not Faunus' arn1 Reached to the rescue and averted harm. i\.y, Faunus, watchful guardian on earth Of men whom Mercury favored at their birth! So I resolved to play the Faunus role To save from Dr. Richmond my poor soul. ~N\ ow, as you see, there was no time to waste, I had to hatch a plot in breathless haste. It chanced a student in the college wood Was felling trees near where the President stood. \Vhile Prexy all oblivious heard my plea, The student on the job saw but the tree! ()ur Prexy failed to hear the sounding axe; The tree was tottering; Death swayed o'er our backs! Then like a hero, leaping to the breach, I pulled dear Prexy safely out of reach, Like Faunus, savior of Mercurial men. And, saved from death, old Prexy saved n'le then! And ever since in fortune's smile I bask: What more, Aristius, do you want to ask? Aristius: I can't see how your trick can rescue me ! Augustin us: Brush up your classical mythology ! Italian Faunus and the Greek god Pan Are both the same,-distinguish if you can! Now, you, Aristius, have a bulldog, Pan; Just scare the \profs\ to free you from the ban! SOPl On. more-~ lege cl the U crease ported ing of Carner was :B with C nouncc freshn class c man, 1 sion t< Coulte was g: of Sw;: also vc feed V\ CHE At < Chemi ed to May4 the Ar lectur( tori cal of the and it~ On• n1en V\ Hyatt next n the el take I Embr( Faust I On 1 cabine ant n1<

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 SOPHOMORE-FRESHMAN DEBATE. On Monday, May 10, the annual sopho- more-freshman debate was held on the col- lege chapel on the queston, \Resolved That the United States should in1mediately in- crease its navy.'\' l'he affirmative was sup- ported by the freshmen, the team consist- ing of W. Q. Swart, Stein and Eddy, with Cameron as alternate. The sophomore tean1 was Kooman, Tregurtha and Van Avery, with Goodtnan alternate. Prof. McKean an- nounced that next year besides a sophomore·- freshtnan debate there would also be ·upper- class debates. The judges, Professors Hoff- man, Bennett and ,Chase, awarded the deci- sion to the affirmative. The Donald A. Coulter Memorial prize for individual work was given to Spencer Eddy '18. The work of Swart and Stein for the affirmative was also very effective. After the debate a pie- feed was held in Silliman Hall. CHEMICAL SO·CIETY ACTIVITIES. At a regular n1eeting of Union College Chemical Society May 3, six men were elect- ed to membership. On Tuesday evening, May 4, under its auspices, Mr. B. Schultz of the An1erican Locomotive Company,. gave a lecture on \Rubber.\ He spoke of the his- torical development of the rubber industry, of the processes used in rubber manufacture and its uses in commerce. On May 10, at '1 :15 o'clock, the following n1en vvere initiated: Creble '16, Baird '17, Hyatt '17, Elmore '17, and Mann '1 \/. At the next meeting next Monday evening, at 7 :15 the election of officers for next year will take place. There will be also papers by Embree '16, and by the retiring president, Faust '15. Y. M. C. A .. Plans for Northfield Conference. On Thursday, May 6, the old and the ne\v cabinets of the Y. M. C. A. had an import- ant n1eeting in Silliman Hall at one o'clock. The n1embers of the old cabinet submitted reports of their respective departments and recommended work for the coming year. Nicolas J. Bolster of 1-\rgentina, was here Friday and Saturday, April 30 and May 1, endeavoring to interest our Latin American students in the Northfield Student Confer- ence to be held at East Northfield, Mass., . from June 25 to July 4. Then on May 11, Francis P. l\1iller, Washington and Lee '14, visited Union to work up enthusiasm for this sa1ne purpose. Both men were very suc- cessful. A great n1any of the subscriptions for the Y. M. C. A. have not been paid. An immed- iate payn1ent by the de1inquents will be ap- preciated. INTERCOLLEGIATE TRACK MEET. Union Will Enter Strong Team May 22. The intercollegiate track meet will be held this year on Saturday, May 22, on the Fen- wick Park half mile track at Utica instead of at Colgate. The colleges represented will be: Union, Colgate, Hamilton, Hobart, Rochester, St. Lawrence. Colgate has been the victor in this meet for the last three or four years. 'This year, however, we have an excellent team which demonstrated its abil- ity here last Saturday against R. P. I. Cap- tain Dent said concerning the intercollegiate rneet: \VV e don't know anything about their teatns and we don't care. We are going up there to win.\ EXTRA-CLARICE HAS GONE! Somebody Swiped Doc Mac's Skeleton; that is to Say, the Skeleton he. Uses in Con- ducting His Classes-Fritz Hot Upon the Trail ! Faculty, alumni, undergraduates and Mr. Devvey are shocked at the horrible an- nouncenlent that Clarice, Doc l\iac's favorite little skeleton has disappeared from his class roon1. Various people are suspected and

22 THE 'C:ONCORDIENSIS Fritz expects to bring the culprit to justice in a few days. If any student sees a skele- ton around down town, he is requested to con1rnunicate with the proper authorities at once. When last seen the skeleton was in attendance at the 191 'l-1918 debate, after which it is suspected that the poor thing ate so much pie that it j.ust naturally died. Show your college spirit, fellows, and give Doc Mac his skeleton back. He just can't live without it. No! we don't mean the one he hangs his clothes on. We mean the one he expatiates about. We want our skeleton! INTER-FRATERNITY BASEBALL. 1\!Iay 3-Sigma Phi-Delta Phi. No game. May 4-Beta Theta Pi defeated Phi Gam- ma Delta, 17-12. May 5-Delta Theta Phi defeated Alpha Delta Phi, 16-6. May 6-Phi Delta Theta-Pyramid Club. No game. Kappa Alpha defeated Delta Phi, 16-8. May 7-Kappa Alpha-Psi Upsilon (rain). No game. May 10-Phi Delta Theta-Delta Theta Phi. No game. Standing of the fraternities: Old Fraternity League. Won. Lost. Kappa Alpha ------=-- 1 1 Sigma Phi ----------- 1 0 Psi Upsilon --------- 1 0 Delta Phi------------ 0 2 Delta Upsilon -------- 0 0 Chi Psi ___ ,__,_- ... ,..----- 0 0 New Fraternity League. Won. Lost. Alpha Delta Phi ------ 0 2 Beta Theta Pi -------- 2 0 Phi Delta Theta ------ 1 0 Phi Gamma Delta ---- 0 2 Pyramid Club -------- 0 0 Delta Theta Phi ------ 1 0 P.C. .500 1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 P.C. .000 1.000 1.000 . 000 .000 1.000 THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. A Prophetic Chirp. Now that the freshman class is soon to lay aside its verdant headgear and be allowed the fundamental privileges of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness heretofore considered only the prerogatives 6£ sophomores and upper-c'lassmen, immediately they will be- gin laying plans to make miserable the lives of the two hundred odd Neophytes whom we . expect to be with us next year. Already in our mind's eye, we can see visions of speeches from barrels, paddeling, idol paint- ing, and hair cutting. The Innocent Bystander has always been a firm believer in the potentiality of first im- press·ions. A man who is impressed early with an idea is moulded by it. If this in1- pression be a favorable one, well and good; if unfavorable, he is under a handicap from which he may never emerge. This applies to freshmen, sub-freshmen and other hu- mans. The impression which has beefi given sub- freshmen on Moving-up Day has always been a favorable one; in fact, it has been so favorable that the registration day recep- tion usually accorded to a freshman every fall is all the more disconcerting. Deny it or not, there is always an element of un- necessary roughness in the collection of salt taxes and subsequent attempts to in1- press upon the new man an appreciation of his own nonentity. To those who have been well treated by us on a previous Moving-up Day, the contrast is startling ; to those who have never been entertained by us before, an in1pression is created which may lead to harmful results. If, later in the year, a portion of a man's hair be removed against his will, he can hardly help feeling resent- ment against the sophomore class which can be guilty of such \barberism\ and the entire regime which tolerates such methods . This feeling of mortification is replaced by one of vindictiveness, and as a result, pad~ '\ ! ,' \ dling 1 and he: \Bu1 to you w1 111USt 1 in a m< in thei1 should rules Cl many< sitting fron'l b damsel and so trouser freshm rules f not sti: pate ir fractio1 hardly pri ts. sharp-I and ey is atter ly sopt method That~ fore is A gr therefo ishing vations (literal create upon r please 1 T FF Last basebal dance, ; Delta l tained

THE c·oNCORDIENSIS 23 dling has becom:e more and more painful, and hair cutting more and more frequent. \But new men must be properly cowed/' you will say. Of course they must, but they t11ust be made to feel their insignificance in a manner which will not leave a bad taste in their mouths, a desire for revenge. They should be cowed as a class. The freshman rules are particularly lax here. There are many colleges which prevent freshmen from sitting in the first ten rows of a theater, fron'l being seen on the campus with a fair damsel, from wearing any except black ties and socks, from wearing ·cuffs o.n their trousers, and so on, and so on. When a freshman knows that all must obey these rules from year to year, his resentment is not stirred against those who may partici- pate in the hair cutting following an in- fraction. And, incidentally, hair cutting 1 s hardly a proper method of punishing cul- prits. It is absolutely dangerous to use sharp-pointed instruments about the head and eyes in any such scuffle which always is attendant upon such an operation. Sure- ly sophormoric ingenuity can devise a :safer method of maintaining its .. authority. That we have had no serious accidents be- fore is pure luck. A greater strictness of freshmen rules, therefore, and a less risky method of pun- ishing infractions would be desirable inno- vations, would cause less sore-heade·dness (literally and figuratively) and would not create any impressions likely to work woe upon n1an or college. All those in favor please rise. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. FRATERNITIES ENTERTAIN. Last Saturday after the track meet and base ball game Alpha Delta Phi gave a tea dance, and Psi Upsilon, Sigma Phi, Chi Psi, Delta Upsilon, and Phi Delta Theta enter- tained with dances in the evening. UNION CIVIL WAR VETERANS' RECORD. Interesting Statistics Compiled. Thomas H. Fearey, '63, announced at the recent meeting of the Graduate Council that the reco1:d of Union alumni who participated in the Civil War is nearly ready for the printer. A year ago Mr. Fearey \vas ap- pointed chairman of the committee on Civil \V ar records. In preparing the information no small difficulty was encountered on ac- count of the inability of the committee to secure accurate information and complete records. This was especially true in regard to the records of those enlisted in the Con- federate army who numbered forty-six of the five hundred and sixty-one Union men in the war. Four hundred and ninety-two .Union men were in the army of the North and twenty-three in the Federal navy. Of the total number sixty-one were killed in battle and five were given medals of honor by congress for their valor on the field. Over fifty per cent. of the Union students in the war were officers. Twelve were captains, thirty-seven were majors, twenty-three were lieutenant colonels, forty-four were colonels, fourteen were brigadier generals and four were major generals. Among these officers were such noted men as General IIallock, head of the armies of the West and com- mander-in-chief before Grant; Major Gen- eral Daniel Butterfield, Brig. General John F. Hartranft, and Brig. General Philip Sid- ney Post. On Monday of commencement week a re- union of the veterans will be held in the chapel. Seventy-three Union veterans are known to be living, but on account of in- fi.rmi ty and the long distances some would have to travel, not more than twenty-five are expected to be here this June. W ednes- day, baccalaureate degrees will be presented to those of the veterans who left college before being graduated.

24 TH'E CONCORDIENSIS. HONOR SYSTEM CONSTITUTION AMENDED. New Members Elected to Court. At the meeting of th,e student body on lVIonday, the constitution of the Honor Sys- tem was quite genera] 1 ty amended, and some new sections were added. The constitution went into effect immed- iately upon its adoption. The Honor Co.urt is very certain that, under this new constitu- tion, cribbing will be reduced to a mini- mum, and that the Honor System will be- come the success that it should be. The officers and n1ern bers of the Honor Court elected for the ensuing year are as follows: C. Foster Brown '16, President. Senior members: Schuyler Vro1nan, Meade Brunet, Carrol Gunning, Harold Lewis, Neutral. Glenn Stevens, Howard Santee, Nathaniel Finch, Junior members: F. W. Porter, Don Price, Neutral. Edward Brandow, Forest Van Avery, Pyramid Club. Hugh J. Williams, William Loughlin, CONCORDY ... GARNE'r GAME~MAYBE The annual baseball game between the Garnet and Concordiensi:s boards is sched- uled to take place so1ne tin1.e in the near fu- ture. Just at present, though, the situation is a deadlock. There seems to be quite a disagreement in the choice of an umpire, \vhile Gummy Glenn is lying awake nights trying to decide which tea1n he should play \vith. If it ,comes to a show down, though, Gummy 1night solve the problem by being the umpire. \Vhichever way the argument is decided, there is going to be some kind of a game, sotne time, some where. That much is certain. PREXY'S DATES. May 15-0n Saturday evening Prexy will entertain the members of the Upper Hud- son Association of Phi Beta Kappa at his home. He will give a talk on British Min- strelsy, which he will illustrate by songs. May 24.-The principal address at the de- dication of the new Third Reformed ,Church of Albany will be delivered by Prexy. THE COULTER MEMORIAL. At a recent meeting of the committee dele- gated to consider a memorial to the mem- ory of Donald A. Coulter, it was decided that the memorial should take the form either of an addition to the books in the library or a prize. If the money raised is O\iven as an endowment for a prize, it will be b • in the classical or 1i terary department, 1n which Coulter was so interested. Those who are expecting to contribute are asked to hand in their 1noney as soon as possible. THE GREAT W ... ~R. The Eglantine and Columbine, The two, they went to war, And each one fought a gallant fight ;. But not like mighty Thor. They spread their banners to the air,- Their perfume to the breeze,- . And each one strove with might to w111 The greater host of bees. 'rhe one took thirty, so 'tis said, The other t\venty-nine, But which one_, we shall never know; To tell they both decline. For in their peace-pact 'twas agreed T~hat neither side should boast,-. So we shall never know at all,- \Vhich warrior captured most. l(ENLIS. •' (: r., . '· ve . lD st~ we be ch sa1

•' (: r,, . '• If you w:ant lln,ything /rom QUINN'S Schenectady's ·Greatest Drug Stor:e Just Telephon,e 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY~ N. Y. For Our Mutual Benefit This store is not merely a commercial venture. It is an institution that 'has become inseparably associated with the highest business standards of this locality. Appreciating our responsibilities to you, we have exerted every effort, guided by our best judgement, to provide only such mer- chandise as we are confident will give the satisfaction that makes and keeps real friends. So we have no hesitation in recom- mending such superior merchandise as- Steefel Quality Clothes Johnston and :Murphy Shoes Stetson Hats Manhattan Shirts Spring -Display of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun. 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothing Over lOc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. 411 S'TATE STREE'r. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falls CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is always an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everythin~ that needs cleaning-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaniug Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State St. · t I • ' <' \I • I •, . ' . STYLISH PUMPS For .Oress or Street wear, in dull and patent leather-ta.ngo ~oleos, all rubber or disc rubber insetl!J -fine for da.n cing or general wear. $3.50 to $5 PATTON & HALL 245 State Street, Sehenee'tady. ==·-· --. --·-· . . . . ·-------,---=-===

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE Ca-oTH ES SHoP FoR :MEN 340' WASHINGTON STRE Eta :BoSTON .Suits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Olcl Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Quality Laundry 719 State Street Paone 759 Schenectady, N. Y. N. K. McNEILL Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store There is no Music Like Gioeia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. FAREWELL GREETIN·GS TO THE SENIORS: Memory at best cannot reveal in future years, you as you are to-day. What say I What power then to portray? A duty you owe . your friend-to have a Com· mencement Portrait made. This is your call: (Class rate from $4.50 up) The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop Julius fgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices,. Comfortable ] ·- A H.R Only 442 \l Pet C: tion Bell 4 1 Cu~ San: 870I Cig St.

BeDinger Paint Co. ~6 :rilfj Walk-Over shoes will ta.ke --~ :-- you anywhere and back. PAINTS, OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Dealers in all kind~ of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A R Z • t Q ·h furnished music at Union College 1905 . . . . . . Ita s .· rc . estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, 'og, 'IO, 'II, '12 '13 & '14 Best Da:nce Music ~in the World g~~· t1~g~~~r!~~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and .Res., 167 Hamilton St., Al'bany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College· Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NQTT TBRRACB Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladie.s' and Gentlemen Sanitary Clef).ning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern .(\ve., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. Ct{AS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver ·- CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eye• Te1ted and Glattea Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

~ In every walk of life you'll find good old \Bull'' Durham Men of action, men with red blood in their veins, who do the world's work, and do it well, learn to ap- preciate things at their real worth. They are not fooled by frills -they demand honest 'l'alues. These are the millions of men all over the earth who find complete, healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction in ''Bull'' Durham hand-made cigarettes. GENUINE ··BuLL DUR AM SMOKING TOBACCO These fresh, fragrant cigarettes they roll for them- selves, with their own hands, to their own liking, from ripe, _mellow \Bull'• Durham tobacco, suit their taste better than any cigarette they can buy ready-made. \Bull'' Durham hand-made cigarettes are a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment-wonderful- ly comforting and satisfying. Their freshness- ancl .flavor are a revelation. Roll a cigarette from \Bull'' Durham today. FREE . An I~luatrated Booklet, shoWing correct ~- wayto ••RollY our ~!Jiii.i Own'' Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free. to any address in the United States on postal request. Address ••Bull'~ Dur- ham, Durham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBA.CCO CO. Ask for FREE packa~re of' • paper•' • with each 5c •ack. -- Ed\ F F \ J p 132

' --------------------------------------------~~----------~--. OF COU:RSE there is always a caB for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for the necessary ones In the The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison Your· Commencement Engraving American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Should be in Astor Text to be correct Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store THE MOHICAN MARKETl The Big Store Around the Corner 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Clothes Economy leads to THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler h~~ ' A full line of un,called for cii''' '1}··· Tailor Made Suits in All Styles at Half Price Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for-- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing ·for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full - Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all tj mes The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up ' Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. best part of URAD you cannot describe. But you. recognize it inata.Dtly. And you. never for• get it. lSc. ~· Makera of the Hivhed Grade Turkish and E~ptian Cigarettes in the World. ·- m •..-w T H. g Tl H Tel Spc Te 42~ 30 15

--m ,_,._....---------·---Ff'W-a'III-III:R- ..... \MW-0--·-· -·bliR_'VII_A'Aftii-l'li- ..... tAM-illoo'til~Htll ~Jil. WIll CFtW1 ~ 1ar111 Aoil>l MleaU\\ .. I ... IW&iU . Stoll's Ho/hrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y .. Will Serve Real German Meals at .All Hours at Moderate Prices .. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Sch artz T aUoring Co. Snappiest Made .. to-1\'Ieasure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. g Proctor's Arcade, \Vedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17 o Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to and Scalp. 436 State Street, Telephone Connecti A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Coa Phone 4489. IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4·489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee ,.\.'WAY,9 177 Jay Street --~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady,N. Y. ~ Albany, N.Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld • & ·B 126·128 Nasaau Street • • pa lng · ros. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLEN ' 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited .. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY . 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Officeu

I I I I I I I I SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button {':()ats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffmer & Marx tailors. C_ollege men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they d(). We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press v

. ~ . . ~ . The Published Weekly by the Students of Union College Hamilton and Colgate Games Commencement Good Time Table VOL. 38 MAY 20, 1915 NO. 26 (jJ

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Oeurae• leading to the degree of A. B. CLASSICAL Cou:asJt A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close · of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates · for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Cour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA TIN -ScntNTU'IC CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour1e leading to the degree of B. s. SciJ.tN'tiJ!IC Cou:asJt- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Vour1e leading to the degree o:f B. E. GENltRAL ENGINEltRING CouRsit- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles .of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Er,~CTRICAL ENGINEERING CouB.SE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. t:lo-ur•e• lea•lng to graduate degree•· CouRSE LltADING TO DEGIEE ol! M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRslt LEADING To DEGREE or M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work.. CouRSE LEADING To DEG:REE oY PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and 'laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to : WIL~Is G. TucKn, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. p ARKltJl, ]. NJtWTON FIJtRO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This departm¢nt of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. A~FRED B. HuESTltD, Secretary, ''Everything for the College ~fan except Ex1m1\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS .AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate G

TRADE ·MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical General Electric . Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 ., . LATEST STYLE·s---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 , Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All atylea and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leadinl! exponent• of Modern Dancing. in Schenectad, and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, W (!dnesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 P• m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 H 1111 Plutu 2110-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. 169 Jay Street EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, F ownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

See the New Spring Styles at Babbitt's See the sple.ndid display of Babbitt Clo·thes as made by Rogers-Peel See the wonderful ''Frankel Fifteens'' the finest clothes tailored for $15.00· in America. We are sole agents in this tri-city territory for these two makes BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We .are .not living in the stage-coach decade, at whtch tune the mentioning of flying machines would ha. ve been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as QWe did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, H you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 525 State Street Opposite Waiting Room Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawing Inks I Eternal Writinal Ink Engrossing Ink I Taurine Mucilaale i Photo Mounter Put• t Drawing Board Paate Liquid Paate Office P~ate V etetable Glue• •tc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' lNKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. I-liGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 3 1 Steuben Street,

Christy Mathewson Famous Baseball Pitcher, aaya: \Tuxedo get• to me in a natural, pleasant way. It's what I call good, honest companionable tobacco- the kind to stick to. '' Tuxedo Keeps You In Good Trim , Christy Mathewson, lov· ingly known as \The Old Master,\ is probably the greatest pitcher baseball has ever known. This won- derful athlete is noted for his clear headed common sense, his quick wits, perfect physical condition, and absolute control over his nerves. His use and en- dorsement of Tuxedo prove that this inspiring and healthful tobacco is helpful to mind and body. The Perfect Tohacco for Pipe and Cigarette just sort of oozes its gentle way into your life and suddenly you realize its powers for good-because it puts peace in your mind and a happy taste in your mouth. Tuxedo's flavor is so enticingly mild and delicately fragrant it will not irritate the most sensitive throat. All the bite and sting have been removed by the famous \Tuxedo Process.\ This exclusive process of refining the very best Kentucky Burley tobacco has been widely imitated, but without success. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE ConTenient, glassine-wrapped, Sc famous green tin, witll gold J 0 moisture-proof pouch. • • • lettering, curved to fit pocket C In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c In Glass Humidors, SOc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY ·• '•·: .'. . . . ., ' :~ . '· ) ; :: li . ' ·l ,, ! ~ . I· : j ·; : ,. < ·,, ' ' ' ' I I· ,,., . : L, !:!:; ,· . I. ,, '::' ), I! l~ ' . ,. '; ·i' 1 ·: ' I 'I i' !I(. I :JI II I ( 'i '/ i i i .. ,,

tsTAiSUSHED 1818 - Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, will be at the Edison Hotel on SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats and Shoes Boston Branch 149' Tremont Street 1.V 1wport Branch 220 Bellevue Avenue We Solicit Your Patronage. Y-ou Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Maken of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To Cure Cold BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- . plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnrr To the American Colleges and Univenitiea from N °· 1 New York Central Colonnade the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. UNI·ON STUDENTS: . 11 ~ ll . • I l \'>' i ,,\l The - Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . . lfll'/\ \'' Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN Schenectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR CO:M:PANY 318-320 State Street 467 State S.treet, Schenectady, N. Y. • ] l -

Clothing Furnishings Hats we're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each departm·ent. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' · (j] Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIE.S Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN (,.NLY 250 ROOMS · Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty -five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has p_l!!ced us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 St-ate Street Schenectady,. N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.'• ., .';· ,·, ' • !1, l:' : i '~- ~ r . .. i 1\. : i ' ' f ! •. · .• l . ! ,i ,, ' ' ' ,, +!I I I' ,, ' , I(' i tl ' f ' t ; . ,: . I .. ' d ' I ~~ ,, I I • •i I . 11 1 . II . i ' ~ I I' I II' l q ; ,: I , I ·. ' 1 '' ii I ,., ,I

· Ready to Wear and Custom M·ade STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the · Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with .,m,erchandise you see elsewhere, wh~re qua.lity, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness ()f design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, ·consistant alliance in all our offerin~gs and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to aU Co}lege Student is yours for the :asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on at! purchases of $10 or over ifth.is ad is presented at the ~time of jJurchase. 503 • 507 State Street 'Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOU:R NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called .for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. :S,OBELL, Manager. The <>nly machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ______ . __ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed ------~60c Men's Heels ________________ 2Sc Men's soles, nailed ____ so t() 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIEERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ ------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.76 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DA.N\NER. Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Collelllo Repreeent•tive 1915 ''RADNOR.., THE NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents .. Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. OBDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John'a Church. 'Phene 191-W. 722 Eastern Ave. VOL. Jenk Carl the bes Colo·at~ <:') in the : out gar fanned two ba DaveE ed swi dived li hit a n The ·vvas ba1 \vere tl Colgatt not fat ·union'~ IIick but his ped it 1nen or one ba~ Colg< gate, fa n1er in Unio: single 1 second stop.

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 A WIN FROM COLGATE. J enldns' Pitching Feature o£ 6-3 Game. Carl Jenkins came through Saturday with the best pitching he has ever done. He beat Colgate 6 to 3, and but for a series of flukes in the ninth would have had a one-hit shut- out game against the strong up-staters. He fanned 16 nen, allowed only two hits, and two bases on balls. His fast ball nestled in Dave Beaver's glove before the batter start- ed swinging,. and his spitter jumped and dived like a streak of lightning. He did not hit a man-which was lucky for Colgate. The game aside from Jenkins' pitching ·\vas bad. All the runs scored on either side \vere the result of errors, none was earned. Colgate erred repeatedly, and Union was not far behind as an offender. It was ·union's gan1e all the way, though. IIicks pitched a good game for Colgate, but his teant-mates threw it away or drop~ ped it a'vay behind hitn. He fanned 13 1nen on his own account and allowed only one base on balls. First Inning. Colgate: Robinson, first man up for Col- gate, fanned. Van Alstyne flied out to Zim- n1er in center. Jenkins fanned Stewart. Union: Dave Beaver lined out a clean single on the first ball pitched. He took second when a passed ball wertt to the back- stop. Galbraith sacrificed hin1 prettily to NO. 26 third_ \tVith Jake Beaver up, Dave started to steal home. Jake, however, instead of laying down a bunt, popped a little fly to the ca-tcher who completed a double play unassisted by cutting down Dave at the plate. Second Inning. Colg-ate: Edgerton was out, Galbraith to H octghton. Reid lofted a long fly to center. Zimmer got his hands on it but failed to hold it, and Reid pulled up at third. Jenkins obliged by fanning Glendenning. D\vyer pushed a hot grounder down the first base line. Erny Houghton ran back to get it, while Tubby Rosecrans· covered first. rThe assist \vas perfect and Tubby got the pnt out. Pretty baseball. Uni()n: Teedy V{ oods succumbed to· three s.lants and sat down. Houghton sin~ gled. Zimn~er singled and both advanced on a passed ball. 1~u b by Rosecrans fanned, but &o binson, the catcher, dropped the ball, and Tnbby started for first, drawing the throw.. Right here Robinson practically threw the gan1e away, \'\v-hen his heave went wild. Roth Houghton and Zimmer scored. Swede Friday fanned. Score: Union 2, Col- gate 0. Third Inning. Col£'ate: Jenkins gave Fraser a base. ~Ticks -was out on a foul fly to Houghton. Jenkins, g-ot three str1kes on Robinson, but Dave B:eaver dropped the last and the bat- \ . .~\ ' ', •• 1 I /, ' ' ., ; '• !< ''' 1.< ' I .\' ., ' ! I .i I ,:;; ) \ • < \' '. • ''i . ·I ' I ,i ,. l l l I ' ' t I, ! ' 'i \ 1: l I ~. ·I i I I I I I. I l ! I l I I I

. ' 10 THE CONCORDlE!NSIS ter was safe on first, whlte Fraser to<>'k second and third. While Robinson was stealing second; Jenks fanned Van Alstyne and Stewart. Union : Jenkins struck out. Dave Beav- er got :first on an error, went down on .a wild throw, took third on ·Galbraith's sacri- fice and came home on another error, this tim·e by the first hasetnan. Jake Beaver fanned, but as usual the catcher had to 1 throw him out at :6.rst. Fourth Inning. Colgate: Edgerton flied out to Houghto11a Reid struck out. Glendenning struck out. Union : Teedy lofted to left for the first out. The pitcher foozled an easy pop by Houghton who was safe ort first. Zimmer flied out to shortstop. Rosecrans fanned, but that didn't n1ake any difference. 'the catcher didn't hold the ball and Tubby was safe on first while Houghton went to sec- ond on the catcher's wild throw. F'riday came through here with a two-bagger that scored Houghton and put Rosey on third. Jenkins fanned. Score: Union 4, Colgate 0. Fifth Inning. Colgate: Dwyer was out, Jenks to 1-loughton. Fraser and Hicks fanned. Union: Dave Beaver fanned. Galbraith was out, Robinson to Stewart. Jake Beaver struck out. Did he go to the bench? No, he weht to first, because Robinson did it again. Jake started down on a hit'\\and-..run play~ while Woods can1e through on his end with a clean single. Jake made third but \'as out trying to come hon1e. Sixth Inning. Colgate: Jenks :fanned Robinson and V at1 Alstyne. Stewart was out, Jenks to Houg-h- ton. In this and the previous inning, Jenk-- ins is credited with six assists-two to Boughton and four to Dave Beaver. Six 111en went out in succession in these two in ... ~ tnngs. Union: Houghton fanned. He almost n1ade first, but Robinson got the throw down a little ahead of him this time. Zim_, 1ner singled-his second hit. Tubby Rose-- crans got his base. Zip got to third. Right here Tubby started down for second, Zim., mer came home on the peg to second. Tubby took third on the throw in to get Zim. Fri- day breezed. Jenkins popped a fly toward first in the infield, but neither first base- man nor pitcher got it. Tubby came home and Jenks was sate. Dave Beaver flied out to center. Score: Union 6, Colgate 0. Seventh lnning. Colgate : Edgerton was out, Woods to Houghton. Reid made the first hit of the gan1e o:H Jenks. Glendenning was out, Rosecrans to Hough ton. Dwyer tanned. Union: Galbraith fanned. Jake Beaver' singled. Woods singled, bttt the center fielder got Jake going to third on the hit6 Houghton tanned. Eighth Inning. Colgate: Fraser fanned. Hicks got a base on balls. Robinson was out, Rasey to Houghton. Van Alstyne fanned. Union: Zimmer got his third hit; Rose ... crans, however, hit into a double play, short, to second, to first. Friday fanned. Ninth Inning. Colgate! Stewart was out, Galbraith to Houghton. Edgerton died, Jenks to Hough- ton. Reid shot a sizzling grounder down to \Voods, and was safe on his error. Glen- denning shot one in the same direction anri FTeedy again blew up, Reid taking third on the throw. Both men sate. Dwyer singled, scoring both. Fraser knocked another hot one at Woods, who could not handle it, let ... ting Dwyer score. Jenkins ended the mis- ery by tanning West who pinch ... hit for Hicks. The su1umary ~ Robin~ Van A Stewa1 Edger· Reid, Glen de; Dwye1 Fraser I-Iicks, \Vest, To D. Be Galbr< J. Bea \Vood. Hougl Zim·mc H.osecJ Frida) Jenkin Tc Union Colga1 Stn.: Twol Jenkir D. Be. stvne, Umpil u~ Hami] Uni noon; n1ng g ed fas and h~ vvere

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 COLGATE. A.B. R. H. P.O. A. Robinson, c. ----- 4 Van Alstyne, 2h ·- 0 Stewart, lb. ----- 4 Edgerton, rf.. ____ 4 Reid, cf ---------- 4 Glendenning, ss __ 4 Dwyer, Bb -----·--- 4 Fraser, 1£ _______ 3 I-Iicks, p. -------- 2 \Vest, p --------- 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 Totals _______ 34 3 UNION. A.B. R. D. Beaver, c. ---- 4 1 Galbraith, 3b. ___ 2 0 J. Beaver, lf. _____ 4 0 \Voods, ss. ______ 4 0 Houghton, 1b ___ 4 2 Zim·mer, cf. -·---- 4 2 H.osecrans, 2b. ___ 3 1 Friday, rf. --·---- 4 0 Jenkins, p --·---- 3 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 10 1 8 0 1 1 2 1 0 0 l'f' :I 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 14 0 2 24 23 H. P.O. A. 1 14 1 0 0 2 1 0 0 2 0 1 1 12 1 3 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 1 0 18 Totals _______ 32 6 10 27 25 Score by Innings : Union ______ o 2 1 1 0 2 0 0 *-6 Colgate ____ o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3-3 Struck out: By Jenkins, 16; by Hicks, 13. Two base hit: Friday. Bases on balls: Jenkins, 2 ; Hicks, 1. Errors : Woods { 3), D. Beaver, Zimmer, Robinson (2), Van Al- styne, Stewart (3), Glendenning, Hicks. Umpire-Blanchard. UNION LOST IN THIRTEENTH. Hamilton Nosed Out Victory in Close Sc<lre Contest. Union lost to Han1ilton last Friday after- noon at Clinton in a whirlwind thirteen in- ning game by a score of 3 to 2. Union play- ed fast ball, getting 9 hits, stealing 9 bases, and holding Hamilton rttnless till two men vvere out in the ninth inning, when a wild throw gave the Buff and Blue a chance to tie the score. After that the game was scoreless until the thirteenth, when a double and a single brought in Hamilton's last and winning run. Whitman, who pitched for Hamilton, had a good day. He kept the opposing hits scattered, fanned fourteen men, and allowed only one base on balls. Hummer, too, pitched a game that under other circutn- stances would have been good enough to win. He struck out eleven men, allowed only two passes and allowed nine hits to Whitman's seven. Hummer's game was all his own and a victory until after fanning two men in the ninth, he was deserted by fortune when a wild pitch allowed the score to be tied. In the second inning Union scored two runs. Houghton lined out a single. He advanced to third on passed balls. Zimmer was out, but Tubby Rosecrans came through with a liner to center field. The ball got by the outfielders and Houghton and Rasey rom.ped across the plate. After that it was a pitcher's battle. Neither team could seem to score and went out regularly. One man was down in the ninth when Behan of Hamilton singled. Captain Erhardt came across with another single. McLouth sacrificed the two run- ners along. Two men were out, and a man on second and third. W. Gow was up. He dribbled the ball easily toward third, where Galbraith made a perfect stop. Then he threw to Houghton. But the ball when it passed Houghton was too high. Behan and Erhardt scored on the throw. In the thirteenth W. Gow doubled to right. Humtner vvalked Erhardt who look- ed dangerous. McLouth was up and singled cleanly, bringing in Gow, and the gan1e was over. The sutnmary: ~ ;: ~ ), if ' I' ., ' ''• ,, t ' I \ ·, ,' ,. ' ' ' ,·' \ !, l .

12 THE CONCORDIENSI'S. UNION. A.B. R. 1-I~ P.O. A. D. B·eaver, c. ---- 6 0 1 1'2 .0 ·1 Galbraith, 3b. ----- 5 0 1 1 3 J. Beaver ' If. --·-- 6 0 0 2 0 vVoods ' ss. ------ 5 0 0 0 0 Houghton, lb. --- 5 1 l 16 0 z· 1mmer, cf. ----- 4 0 1 2 0 Rosecrans, 2b --- 4 1 0 3 2 Friday, rf ------- 5 0 2 1 0 Hummer, p. ----- 3 0 0 0 8 Totals ------- 43 2 6 *38 14 HAMILrfON. A.B. R. H. P.O. A. Griffith, 2b ___ ...... __ 6 0 2 2 3 M. Gow, If. ------ 4 1 2 1 0 Behan, ss. ------- 4 1 1 2 3 Erhardt, lb. ----- 5 1 1 13 0 McLouth, 3b ---- 6 0 0 2 0 \V. Gow, rf ----- 6 0 1 0 0 Daniels, cf --·---- 5 0 0 1 0 Miller, c. -------- 5 0 t 17 2 Whitman, p. --·-- 5 0 1 0 5 Totals _______ 46 3 9 38 13 *II ummer out for foul bunt on third strike. Score by Innings: I-Iamilton ___ o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1-3 Union ______ o 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0-2 Errors-Galbraith, VVoods, Houghton, Griffith, McLouth, Daniels, Miller, 2. Stolen bases-D. Beaver, 3; Galbraith, 3; Woods, Houghton, Zimmer. Sacrifice hits -M. Gow, Behan, 2; Hun1mer. Left on bases-Hami,l ton, 9 ; Union, 6. First base on errors-Hamilton, 3; Union, 3. Base hits-Off Whitn1an, 7; off Hummer, 9. Struck out-By Whitn1an, 14; by Hummer, 11. Bases on balls-Off Whitn1an, 1; off Hummer, 2. Wild pitches-By Whitman, 2; by Hummer, 2. Time of game-2 hours, 35 minutes. Umpire-Simons. INTER-CLASS TRACK MEET. 1918 Wins Easily. In the inter-class track meet held on Moving-Up Day, the freshmen won by a wide margin, totalling sixty-three and one-- half points. The juniors came in second with forty-seven points, while the sopho- lllOres and seniors scored twenty-six and one-half and five points respectively. Several features made the meet interest- ing. Stoller '16, set a new record for the 16-pound hammer throw, breaking by four feet the record of 112 feet six inches, made by E. S. Ciossen in 1906. The record in the t~vo mile run would probably have been broken by Hance '18, had the wind been less strong. As it was, Hance made the dis- tance in ten minutes, twenty-three and three-fifths seconds; only three seconds slower than the record. Mallen '16 was the highest individual scorer, winning twenty-one points. Butler '16, came next with a total of fourteen points. The summary : 100 yard dash-Won by Morrison, '17; Mallen, '16, second; Northrup, '18, third; Taylor, '18, fourth. Time 10 2-5. One n1ile run-Won by Morris, '18; Akins, '18, second; Newton, '16, third; McKenna, '18, fourth. Time 4 :53. 120 yard high hurdles-Won by Mallen, '16 ; Butler, '16, second; Hunter, 15, third; Y ounie, '18, fourth. Time 17 1-5. 440 yard run Won by Northrup, '18; Newtnan, '18, second; Mudge, '18, third; ;raylot, '18y fourth. Two mile run-Won by Hance; '18 ; Peaslee, '18, second; McLean, '18, third; McKenna, '18, fourth. Time, 10 :23 2-5. 220 yards, low hurdles-vVon by Mal- len, '16; Butler, '16, second; Hyatt, '17, third; Hunter, '15, fourth. Titne 29 2-5. 220 yard dash-· Won by Morrison, '18 ; Mallen, '16, second; Northrup, '18, third; Taylor, '18, fourth. Time, 23 4-5. 880 ' man, '18, fot Run )16; ] third; 6 1-2 i Hig] ler, 'lj tied fc Pole 'first; Heigh· Sho1 well, ': '17, fo Sixt Stollet third; ft. 6 il l:NTE At ; :ferenc tion o held. dent a treasu Pric attend Alban Board bany J J. Par of ser Trusb Sun l?resh Dr. dedic<: in All and t: at K<: Colle~

TH~ CONCO:RDIENSIS 13 880 y~rd run-Won by Moore, '18 ; Gil- man, '18, second; Dent, '15, third; Akins, '18, fourth. 1'irne, 2 :07 4: .. 5. Running broad jump._._Won by Mallen, >16; Rockwell, '18; second; Mudge, 'l81 third; Butler, '16, fourth. Distance, 20 feet, 6 1-2 inches. High j.ump-\iVon by Peterson, '17; But- ler, '16, second; Miller, '17, art-d Tell, '18, tied for third. Height, 5 £t. 4 in. Pole vault-Jamieson and Butler tied for 'first; Miller, '17, third; Hoag, '18, fourth. Height, 10 ft. Shot put-Won by Stoller, '16; Rock .. well, '18, second; Hay, '18,. third; Peterson, '17, fourthi Distance, 36 £t., 11 in. Sixteetl-pound hammer throw-Won by Stoller, '16; RockweU, '18, second; Hay, '18, third; J atnieson, 'l'l, fourth. Distance, 116 ft. 6 in. l:NTERFRATERNITY CONFERENCE ELECTS OFFICERS. At a meeting o-f the Interfraternity con- ference Tuesday evening, May 11,. the elec- tion of officers for the ensuing year was held. Meade Brunet ·'16, was chosen presi- dent and James S. Butler '16, secretary- treasurer. PREXY;S DATES. Friday, May 21, President Richmond will attend a dinner at the University Club in Albany. ~he affair is to be given by the Board. of Trustees and the faculty of Al- bany Law School in honor of General Amasa J. Parke:r, who has completed twenty years of service as president of the Board of Trustees. Sunday, May 23, he preaches at the First l?resbyterian Church at G-loversville. Dr. Richmond will make an address at the dedication of the Third Reformed Church in Albany the t\venty-fourth o£ this month, and that evening he will attend a dinner at Keeler's given by the Albany Medical College .i\lumni Association. D·ON'T WORRY A.bout your last copy of Concordiensis .. It will come out Commencement Week and will be a ''ripper.'' TENNIS. Union tied Colgate here Saturday, May 15, with a score of .3~3. The game was as foHo.ws: Singles. First Match-. GirHng-Nichols, 8--10, 6-1, 6.,...3. Won by Girting. Second Match-Beckett.....:Turner, 6-2, 2-6, 6-·3, W 011 by Beckett. Third Match-Brown ..... K.ingsley, 3-6, 3-6. Won by Kingsley. Fourth Match-Soler .... Johnson, 6--2, 4-6, 6---3. Won by Soler. Double.s. First Match-Girling and Soler-Turner and Kingsley. Won by ,Colgate, 6-1, 6-3. Second Match-Brown and Beckett- } ohnson and Nichols. Won by Colgate, 7-5, 6-3. Final score: Union, 3; 'Colgate, a. The tennis record to date is: Games won ....... _...,_ ... _._ __ .., ___ ...... _ .... _______ ....,_ 2 Games lost Games tied -----~-~--·~--~-~---~-~-- CHEMISTRY CLUB. 1 2 .A regular meeting of the ·Chemical Society was held Monday evening., April 17. One candidate was initiated and a paper on ex- plosives was read by Brnbree '16. Officers were elected for next year as follo-ws: Presi- dent, Etnbree '16; vice-president, Lowell, '16 ; treasurer, Stoller '16, and secretary, Van Wert '16. Next Monday evening the last n1eeting of the year will occur. All mem~ bers are urged to be present. GARNET-CONCORDY GAME. May 18-Four innings-Garnet wins-;) to 1. Creble umps. ··,: ,, .r ·, , .. . ' . jl ·I ' l l ! . ' I ! I I I •l

14 THE CONCORDIENSlS THE CONCORD lEN SIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDIT'OR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 -------------.-------- 705 Nott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---- ... -~- ..... Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom .M. Jacobs, '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, James B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter, '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; ]. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18;. S. W. Talbot, '18; ]. ]. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard A. Glenn, '16 __ Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE TERRACE COUNCIL. Since the establishment of the Terrace Council by the class of 1906, there have been no greater undergraduate honors than membership to this society. The cere- n1ony of choosing the four new members, Saturday, by the old Council furnishes us the occasion for congratulating the retiring body on their successful guidance of the stud- ent body during the past year-and the new members, on the honor which has been conferred upon them. Bodies of this kind for governing undergraduate students have recently become popular in many American colleges, but nowher~ have they been more successful than at Union. The reason for their general success is simple enough; they are fundament- ally right, they are based on correct principles. They take cognizance of the fact that 1natriculation makes a student an interested and earnest part of the college instead of delaying that fact for four years until he becomes an alumnus. The student on enter ... ing college is considered as having the interests of the college at heart and as likely to uphold her best traditions and to work unceasingly for her welfare. These theories are proved to be correct by the high n1.easure of success resulting from entrusting the gov .. erntnent and guidance of student bodies to such organizations as the Terrace Council. We thank the old Council from 1915 for the service they have rendered us as a college and praise them for the selections they have n1ade for the new Council front the class of 1916. To the four new me1nbers we give our war1nest congratulations for the honor 'vhich is theirs and express our hope and belie£ that when the three final selections are made, the Council will be able to fulfill its offices with as complete suc- cess as have the Councils which have preceded it and will set up a lofty standard for those which are to follow. So or to h, Com the~ ever lect cred appr . SlaSl the11 you1 Grad1 Ha effect RailD comn the ( year ing C Coun one's Schet in de£ excu~ fro1n n1ay Dear PlE ing t, . E:ave. Th being respe the} The cus, :

l l I THE CONCORDIENSIS CLASS SONGS. 15 Now is the time for the bards and songsters to rally to the service of their classes. Soon the inter~class song contest for the Fitzhugh Ludlow cup will be held and in order to have the contest a success there must be a good lot of earnest work put into it. Comtnencement week will be here soon and w~ith it will con~e the .eventful evening of the song contest. We rnay say here that it is one of the best fonns of contest that have ever been instituted at Union or any other college. We should not overlook or neg- lect the opportunity which this contest offers of adding new songs to Union's already creditable list. It is the duty and privilege of every class to contribute as good and appropriate a college song as it can and then render it with as much skiH and enthu- siasn1 as possible. The time for writing class songs and beg-inning regular practice on thetn is at hand. Some of the classes have already begun active work on theirs. Has yours? Get busy! Get busy ! Get busy ! COMMENCEMENT. Graduate Council Issues Time Table for June 5-9. Have you seen the \Good Time-Table in effect June 5th to 9th, 1915 for Every Railroad\ (for they all lead to Union's 119th commence1nent)? 1£ not, the table is what the Graduate Council is sending out this year to the alumni as information concern- ing Commencement Week. The Graduate Council is even printing a sign to tack on one's place of business (\I have gone to Schenectady to renew my youth. Return indefinite. Signed ----------\) and also an excuse to be used in securing permission frotn employer for leave in order that all n1ay attend commencen1ent: Dear Employer: Please excuse ------------ from attend- ing to business fro1n June 5th to 9th inclu· sive. He won't be able to. Yours very truly, Parent or Guardian sign here. The plans of the four under-classes are being worked out very carefully by their respective committees so that their share in the Alumni Night events may be well done. The two upper-classes are to present a cir- cus, 1917 a Billy Sunday meeting, and 1918 a Naval Battle. It is a fact that from the wonderful harmony that has issued from the college buildings lately, the classes are bus- ily engaged in practicing their songs for the Fitzhugh Ludlow cup which 1917 won last spring. As the tin1e draws near, let us all get together and work to make the 119th comn1encement of Old Union one long to be remembered. Let us all make the col- lege, the \fountain of youth,\ for the re- union classes: '45, '55, '65, '70, '7 5, '80, '8!5, '90, '95, '00, '05, 'JO, '12. The ti1ne table is reproduced below. Cut it out and paste it over your desk: Condensed Good Time Table. Time Lv. Your Home tovvn *** Saturday**. Ar. Schenectady ----------·------ A.M. Lv. Station ~----~~~~~----=-=--Immediately Ar. Where you're going to put up __ Ar. Ar. Ar. Ar. Ar. ------------------------ Soon after P.M. Luncheon ______ ------------- Ball Game (R. P. l. vs. Union) Eat again _________ ..., ________ _ Prize Speal<ing First Presbyter- ian Church _ -----·------------- Bed ---------------------- 12:30 3:30 6:30 7:00 9:30 i .\ ) '1: '~ ,, I' \ ' \, ·~ I i f ' ··, :.1 •'i :t I . '! ' : ,i i' I~ I .I ''• ., . I ·' i 1 l I \ ·I I '. ' I \ I l \ I , ' ' ~ I t I .j I I r

16 THE CO;NCOR.Dl:ENSl:S Sunday. A.M. Presbyterian Church .... ..,_.., .............. 10 :00 Ar. Breakfast ----·--·---------\\'-·--....... Chancellor's Oration by Senator ·c •. . ·t· ')**** 10 3·o 1I .,& c· b t L d · 10 ·oo Ar. Church opt1ona , -------- · : · · en.l y a o o ge .............................. _... . . ·· p. :M. .:. ........ ............_ _____ _ Ar. Luncheon ---·--------·------·------ 1:00 At. Commencetnerit Vespers, College G d 5:00 ar en ---------------- _____ _ 1\r. 3rd Meal ._ ___ -·-------------- ·6 :30 .At. Baccalaureate Sertnorl (First ~Presbyterian Church) --------- 7 :30 Mortday. A .. M. Ar. Breakfast __ ._ _______ ._ .... ._..__ .... ,.;...- .... Ar. Campus _ _,~ .................. _ .... ___ ,.._, _________ 10:00 Ar. Register {very important)----- 10:15 Ar. Inspect Gr()unds and Building~ 10 :30 P.M. Ar. Eat ----------------·------------- 12:30 Ar. Class Da.y Bxercises~ College Garden ---------.,.------- --·--- 2:30 i\r. Reunion o£ Civil War Veterans, Colleg~ Ch.apel ---------------- 3:30 Ar. Fraternity Teas ----------\\'-\\' 5 ~00 Ar. \Everyman's'\ Supper, Mohawk Golf Club ------------------- 6:00 Ar. Commencement Reception and Ball Alumni Gymnasium .............. 10:00 A.M. Ar. t Bed ... ...,. ....... _ ........ ..__. _____ _. ____ ..__- -~-- 5 :00 'Tuesday. A.M. i\r. Meeting of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi Societies ---------- 9:00 Ar. Costutrte Parade. Meets at St. George's Church ----·-------- 10:00 Ar. Review o£ Classes by Waldron Cup Committee (Campus) ----- 11 ~00 Ar. Meeting o£ General Alumni Aso. 11 :SO Ar. Balloting :for Alumni Trustee 10 :30-12 P.M. Ar. Alumni ·Luncheon Gymnasium_ 12:30 Ar. Baseball (Stevens vs. Union) -- 2:45 Ar. President's Reception --·------ 4 :30 Ar. Alumni Night, Alexander Field 8:00 Ar. No questions asked a£te:r ------- 10 :00 Wednesday. A.M. At. Commencetn·ent Exercises, F'iTst ** Ask your wit e. *** Ask the ticket agent **** Ask your conscience. t Fooiish waste of timed MOVING-UP EXERCISES. 'rhe activities of Moving-Up Day com~ menced about four thirty Saturday morning when the sophs made a final rush on the frosh who were gathered around the well armored idoL Due to the large number o£ freshmen the sophomores were not able to approach the idol and as usual the first year men had a bright coat of red paint on the image when the scrap ended. 'the Moving.., Up exercises began in the chapel about nine o'clock. After the chapel exercises the reg ... ular college meeting was held. \fhe senior class, garbed in their caps and gowns, then marched around the chapel singing their class sotl'g, The members o£ the Terrace Council dropped out o£ the procession and as the junior class marched by tapped the n1en who are to form the nucleus of the new Terrace Council. 1fhe tour m~n tapped were Carl Danner, of East Auro-ra, who is a member of the Beta Theta Pi traternity; Horace Zimtner, ot Johnstown, who is a member of the Delta Phi traternity; N ath.-. aniel Finch, of Buffalo, who is a member o£ the Alpha Delta Phi; and Foster Brown, of Schenectady, who is a member of Kappa Alpha. 'The Alouette song followed the choosing o£ the new 'ferrace CounciL Ger ... ritt Wood led the song which included some very clever remarks about the various members ot the class. 1\'he exercises ended by singing Alma Mater after which the stud .. ent body gathered around the ido1 while a coat ot white paint was administered to it by the two under-classes and the treshmen burned their gree11 caps. ··~ ,. ] 1. ] j u VV< last , meeti day 1 You days gone An ant p: Mond ers w Dr. of co eh D<

THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 THE LAW OF GRAVITATION~ (By Our Staff Poet.) Moving-Up Day's come and gone With all its levity, And everybody moved along Quite simultaneously. But really don't you think that those Who wear the Cap and Gown Are not exactly moving up- But rather moving down? UNCONSCIOUS COMPLIMENTS. VVe really should have 1nentioned this last week because it occurred at chapel meeting a week ago Monday, but on that day the Column got its first compliment. You remember that Dutch Sn1ith on that day said: \By that time everybody is either gone or On Your Way,\ don't you? OUR NATURAL ENEMIES. An informal meeting of professors, assist- ant professors, and instructors occurred last Monday in Washburn Hall. Several teach .. ers were present. Dr. Hill, recently: \Women are objects of conspicuous waste.\ A bit tautological, eh Doc? WARNING! (Apologies to R. K.) When a flapper leans on your elbow, Yes, such things sometimes occur, Sbe may be a modest young school-girl Or an expert stenographer, Go to Proctor's-but leave the campus, Shun the doubts that blondes entail- For the female of the species gets more no- tice than the male. Clytemnestra. PRIZE CONTEST. Notice is hereby given that a prize will ·b.e presented to the author of the best con- tri b appearing in this column between now and commencernen t. \tVhat the prize is, will be announced later. So far, the best contrib is that of Clytemnestra's appearing just above, entitled, \Warning.\ WE TRUST SO, WE TRUST SO. ~'The students who cheered the teams from the side-lines may clain1 a share in the victory of their fellows who competed on tlte athletic field.\-Editorial in last week's ·Concordy. HAFIZ. ! ., ,·, ,\ ,, ' t, ! t '' ' ' ,' '' ;I '' ~ i . ) ' ',; ' ! ' .l '' l I I , I , I 1 I I I I I 1

i . I ! . 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS . MOSES VINEY SERIES. \Resurrection\ is the last poem of this series and will be concluded in the next . lSSUe: R:ESURRECTION. (A Medley.) Morning. De ashen gray ob de dawnin' comes ober de redolent hill, .An' wid it de sleepy tvvi tter from de willow dat arches de rill ; De golden spears ob de sunrise, dey chal- lenge de timid sky, De lark, he sings in de meadovv as he opens his wings to fly. A moment, a flood ob critnson, den a flash an' de flamin' sun, A moment, a burst ob music, a bref an' de day is begun. Under my feet is de daisies, an' de sky it is up above, Aroun' me de bref ob de roses, an' in my bosom is love. Chloa. Chloa, my little Chloa, Wid roses in yo' har! I \:vish I was a king, Chloa, .l\n' I'd put diatnonds thar. Chloa, my only Chloa, I looks into yo' eyes An' dar I sees yo' won1.an soul, An' woman's sacrifice. I sees yo' heavin' bosom, 0, how my passions throng! I'll kiss yo' in my drea1n, Chloa, I would not do yo' wrong. The Day. 0 de row ob de cotton is weedy an' long But I lightens de labor wid whistle an' song, Fo' I is in lub wid Chloa. An' a cabin I sees in de shade ob de trees Whar de song ob de birds, it is brought by de breeze To me an' n1y little Chloa. Evening. Slowly de shadows is creepin' from out ob de dimming west, Softly de zephyrs is singin' de vesper ser- vice ob rest. A mist comes up from de meadow an' night comes down from de hill; A star, an' de whir ob weary wings an' all ob de world is still. 1\1:orning has gone wid de roses an' lub has taken his flight, Chloa is under de daisies, an' I is alone to- night. An' I ask ob Zephyr de question, why vv\as de glorious morn, An' why was de birds all a sin gin', an' why was my sweet lub born? An' Zephyr she points wid her finger to de well-hoed cotton row An' she says dat n1y lub an' singin' hab n1ade it easy to hoe. An' I ask ob de Night de question, 0 why did de cockle grow Fron1. de willow-arched rill to hill-top de length ob de cotton row? An' de Night, she speaks in a whisper, dat is low an' soft an' still An' says dat my soul has been climbin' up to de top ob de hill. An' I ask ob de Star de question, why has my lub taken flight, An' why is de daisies a growin', why is dis longin' tonight? An' de Star says naught ob de daisies, naught ob de 1nound an' de sod But I hears a voice like to Chloa's callin' n1 y soul up to God. (To be concluded.) MOSES VINEY. IN RE MOSES VINEY. trhe follovving items taken from a ledger of Dr. N ott's, now in the possession of W. T. Hanson, Jr., may be of interest to those whol to M~ in th under \To < \Inci( \Wa§ 185 and In that < to pa \in tc Nott and<: • 1nten: It i tollo\ utor, I can Yo Your Th .{<\h, 'V An \i\lha; Bu 1 con Ea~ How Bu I see Yo Som<: Bu IN Ma M<: ~rhet

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 who have been following the poetry credited to Moses Viney which has been appearing in the Concordiensis. The first entry is under date of July, 1855, and reads: \To cash paid for his freedom ---~$ 120.00 \Incidental expenses for same - ..... ---- 4.0:0 \Wages paid Moses from April 10, 1855, to October 10, 1859, 4 years and 6 months -·------------------ 540.00 In additio-n, there is a note to the effect that on the death of Dr. N ott the estate is to pay Moses Viney one thousand dollars, \in token of the respect of myself and Mrs. N ott for his a hili ty, integrity and fidelity, and especially his uniform devotion to our interests.\ It is with great pleasure that we print the tollowing poem from our fo-rmer contrib- utor, Mr. Mallia: I came upon a summer's night ; You met 111e at the door; Your cheeks were burning with delight ; They told the love you bore. A.h, whispered words that scarcely live And hours all flown-too fast ! \i\lhat would my burdened spirit give-· But hush! That night is past. 1 con1e tonight. How strange, how cold Each voice ; my eyes they fill; How different fro1n a voice of old- But hush! that voice is still. I see your face; 'tis set and white; Your hands are pale and thin ; Some hearts are aching hard tonight, But mine, it breaks within. W. M. M. '18. INTERFRATERNITY BASEBALL. May 11-Sigma Phi- Psi Upsilon (rain.) May 12-Beta Theta Pi defeated Phi Delta ~Theta, 5-3. May 13-· · Delta Phi-Delta Upsilon (rain). May 14-Phi Gamma Delta defeated Py- ralnid Club, 8-\\'\6. May 17-· Psi Upsilon-Chi Psi (rain). Standing of the fraternities: Old Fraternity League. Won. Lost. P.C. Sigma Phi ---------- 1 0 1.000 Psi Upsilon _____ ..., __ _. 1 0 1.000 Kappa Alpha ________ 1 1 .500 Chi Psi ------------- o 0 .000 Delta Upsilon _______ 0 0 .000 Delta Phi ----------- 0 2 .000 New Fraternity League. VV on. Lost. P.C. Eeta Theta Pi ------ 3 0 1.000 Phi Delta Theta _____ 1 0 1.000 Delta Theta Phi _____ 1 0 1.000 GALLEY 6 e Phi Gamma Delta ___ 1 2 .333 Pyramid Club ______ 0 1 .000 Alpha Delta Phi ______ 0 2 .000 ADELPHICS ELECT. Last Friday the Adelphic Debating So·· ciety held their annual business meeting and elected officers for the succeeding year. President, R. E. Taylor '16, vice-president, Forest Van Avery '17, treasurer, J. B. Tay- lor '16, secretary, I-Ieatley '18. The president and Hallock '17 and Eddy '18 are the Adel- phic's representatives in the Debating Council for next year. AN APPEAL TO THE ALUMNI. The following is a reprint of the supple- 111ent to the Union Alutnni Mo·nthly, Vol. IV, No. 6, which is an appeal to Union al u1nni for their help in raising the remain- ing $35,000 necessary to obtain the General Education Board gift: TO THE ALU1\1NI OF UNION COI~­ I(EGE: I desire to set before you, the Sons of Union College, a unique opportunity to serve your Aln1a Mater. The ·General Edu- ',i :; I \ '· ·.1 .:. I , f. ' i l ! I I l j ,\ . :I i :I :I \1 I ! I I : i ' I I ' 'I i ' ' ! I '' l I I I ! . 1

I ! ! I I \ I l l I I I l I l THE CONCORDIENSIS ~cat]on Board has generously tnodified the ter1ns of their provisional gift of $75,000 for endowment. By the new provisions we must raise $225,000. Of this amount not more than $140,000 is to be expended for build- ings, including the Gytnnasium and the Bigelow Mernorial. This $140,0()0 is prac- tically assured. 'rhis leaves $85,000 for en- dowment besides the $7 5,000 pledged by the ~General Education Board. Of this atnount we have about $50,000, leaving $35,000 still to be raised .. The time expires in June, and we cannot ask for an extension of time. If pledges to that amount are not secured by June, \Ve shall certainly lose $75,000. I do not believe the alumni of Union will allow the College to suffer this loss. ~On the con- trary, I am confident that you will welcome this opportunity to show your devotion. We hope you 1nay be with us at Com- tnencetnent to hear the announcement that with your help this fund has been completed and that our endown1ent by these new gifts has been raised to tnore than a rnillion dol- lars. Charles Alexander Richmond. April, 1915. An Analysis of a Gift to This Fund. You Give - The G. E. B.-and-The Col- Gives lege Gets $ .50 $ 1.07 ~ 1.57 1.00 2.14 3.14 2.00 4.28 6.28 3.00 6.42 9.42 5.00 10.71 15.71 10.00 21.42 31.42 20.00 42.85 62.85 25.00 53.57 78.57 50.00 107.14 157.14 100.00 214.28 314.28 200.00 428.57 628.57 250.00 535.71 785.71 350.00 7RO.OO 1100.00 500.00 1071.42 1571.42 ] 000.00 2142.8f5 3142.85 5000.00 10714.25 15714.25 10000.00 21428.!)0 31528.50 REMEMBER-·· Your pledges may extend over a period of two and a half years. The final payment need not be made until Sep- tember 30, 1917 .. ACTIVE INTEREST' OF UNDER- GRADUATES IN ATHLETICS. Statistics Show 50 Per Cent of Students Participate in Scheduled Games and Meets. According to statistics compiled from the records of 1913-14 by Professor Stewart for the Alumni Monthly, fifty per cent of the students at Union participate in scheduled athletic games or meets. The events con- sidered were those participated in by college teatns and class teams as shown in the tables printed below. The junior class designated in the tables below is the present senior and likewise the sophomore and freshman classes are re- spectively the present junior and sophomore classes. With the increased interest in ath- letics at Union due to the new gym and the victories of the past year there is undoubted- ly a larger percentage of undergraduates taking part in organized sports. 1~he following table shows how the classes are represented in the various games : College Teatns Class Teams Seniors 5 2 __ 2 -- ·31 9 -- 14 -- 4 -- Juniors __ 3 9 5 5 2 --112 -- 10 -- 4 -- Sophon1's. 59 1 2 5 11111613 __ 5 __ Fr'htnen _ 19 12 6 3 11 lj36 1816 15 5 -- ------1------ Total-341 32 32 12 12 18 5j68 34 53 15 17 43 Christian County, Kentucky, has voted -vvet and Bourbon County, san1e state, dry. \What's in a name ?\-Herald. - i· 'I

i' 'I If 10u want anything from QUINN'S Sch·enectady's Greatest Drug Sto~e Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messe~gers Deliver all Pttrchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. For Our Mutual Benefit This store is not merely a commercial venture. It is an institution that has become inseparably associated with the highest business standards of this locality. Appreciating our responsibilities to you, we have exerted every effort, guided by our best judgement, to provide only such mer- chandise as we are confident will give the satisfaction that makes and keeps real friends. So we have no hesitation in recom· mending such superior merchandise as- Steefel Quality Clothes Johnston and Murphy Shoes Stetson Hats Manhattan Shirts Spring Display of Wall ·Paper is now ready at the Sun 5 & lDc Wall Paper Store .Everything h1 Wall Paper Nothing Over lOc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. 411 STATE STREET. Schel\lectady 81 E. Main St.,. Amsterdam 129-131 Gle11 St., Glens Falla CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is .always an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs cleaning-all high-~rade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State St.. STYLISH PUMPS J'or :Orees or Str-eet wear, in dull and patent leather-tango ~oles, all rubber or disc rubber insets -tlne tor .dancing or general wear. $3.50 to $5 PATTON & HALL MG State Street., Scheneeta4J'. . '\ . ·.' '' '. ~ ' > ' '> ~· > 1' I I I I .. l i i ,\ . ! '! I l 1

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE CLOTHES SHOP FO·R M:EN 340 WASHINGTON 5TRECT ·BoST'ON -- Suits $25 and Up Flannels $.5 and Up HENRY W ANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. High Grade Laundry get the KILLIP Quality Laundry 719 State Street Phone 759 Schenectady, N.Y. N. K. McNEILL Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N. v·. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra ' 302 Washington. Avenue, Albany, N. Y. · Telephone. FAREWELL GREETINGS TO THE SENIORS: Memory at best cannot reveal in future years, you as you are to-day. What say! What power then to portray? A duty you owe your friend- to have a Com- mencement Portrait made. This is your call: (Class rate /rom $4.50 up) The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Jul ius :rEgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The. New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable J. fl. Oll F ti - E ( s 8 ( ~

Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. A. R. Zita' s Orchestra ~t . . ~ ~ Walk-Over shoes will take 4:l~ -._, you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6 '07· '08 '09 ' I 0 • I I 'I 2 'I 3 & '14 '' ' ' ' ' . Best Dance. Music in the World g~:·tt~~e~t~~..:f~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Co~cert Office and Res., 167 Hamdton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and. solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to ·Order from $1·8 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles ' HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 74 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Stre-et Eyea Tested and Ghn1e1 Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography uw atch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. '· I i ( .1 :f ; ' ,l ; I l 'l I i! J l ! i ' I ·, '} ' l ' I . I I . I \ l ! I I ' . l I ! . l I ! l 'I

''Bull\ Durham an International Favorite Smokers of experience and discrimination the world over obtain year-' round, daily enjoy~ent from \Bull'' Durham tobacco. Men prominent in the social, business and public life of many nations find supreme tobacco sat- isfaction in the deliciously fresh, mild cigarettes of unique savor they roll for themselves, to their individual liking, from this wonderfully pure, mellow tobacco. Their dis- tinguished example has made it correct, smart, fashionable to \Roll Your Own\ upon every occasion. GENUINE 46 BUL( DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO There is no purer, milder tobacco in the world than \Bull\ Durham-none other with such a sweet, mellow, il'resistible fragrance. This rare, balmy aroma is as delicate and elusive as it is distinctive and pleasing, and can only be retained and enjoyed in the fresh- rolled cigarette. uBull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes afford wholesome en ... joyment and lasting satisfaction to more millions of men than all other high-grade smokingtobac- CQS combined. FREE An L!lustrated Booklet, show1ng correct .---·· wayto \RollY our ,.::.;-,..:::·\..:-\\__ Own'~ Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers will both be mailed free~ to any address in ·United States on postal request. Address ••Bull\ Durham, Our ... ham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. A•k 'or FREE packaae of • • papers'' with each Sc •ack. £( 13:

OF COU~SE there is always a can for Dollars. It's true however that some of these caH's are most necessary. Save for the necessary ones in the The Schene~ctady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison Your Commencement E:ngraving American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Should be in Astor Text to be correct Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Buildillg Edwin :Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. . \On your way to the post office\ The The PURE PURE FOOD FOOD Store Store 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Clothes Economy leads to THE OUTLET 140 .JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler A full line of uncalled for Tailor Made S·uits in All Styles at Half Price Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y. ! !I ! I ! '• 1 ;,, ·' i .

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for Col'lege Men Stein-Bloch .and Hiekey-Freeman Suits aad Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Fu.l:l- Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at aU times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313 · 315 Slate :Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 .STATE STREET. :M. P. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FlftE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street \Phone 354-W. Between :Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnsen & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. The best part of aMURAD you caunot describe. But you recognize it instantly. And you never for- get it. ISc. ~ Makers of the Hir'tJ Gracie Turkish an EEM!titm Cigareltea in the World. Rex: H. Sn;; 9 Tb Tel Spe Tel 42~ 301 15

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Raoms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A :u.nique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk and Leather Goods Store Buy baifga~e with the 5 year guarantee ,..~.n_ .... ,. 177 Jay Street .-. r:AXQN ,_ 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~~~., ... ~>\-<- Albany, N. Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S Idl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street • • pa ng lOS. 520 Sth A'lfC~ .• New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN I WI iAAJ4¥&+* A* IIIII A Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx ~- M•a• ~~ 1 *'DID W T« Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button co-ats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press ,. [i]E:S:

