' ' ' ' - ,, ' tr~~l!-USf!l~fP) ~~~ ~ ~~ 611Rt 5tudent/ oF . ®li\lO®(l{}. @.®~~~®~ • \JoL.,38. l'J.o .J 7.

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor U:NION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate . aad graduate courses : 1. Veurae• leading to the degree o:r A. B. Cr...ASSICAI, CouRs~ A.-Greek is required for ad~ mission to this course. French and German are in- · eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAl, CoURSE B.-Students may, at the close ·. of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required · t-o study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin · is prerequisite. 2. Vour•e leading to the degree ol Pb. B. LATIN-SCIEN'l'I:FIC CouB.sit- This course offers · Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour•e leading to tile degree ol B. s. SciitNTI:FIC CouRSE- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leadJng te the degree ol B. E. GtNltRAL ENGINEERING Cou:asE-· This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, cotnprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and m.odern languages. SANITARY ENGINltERING CouRs~-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. E~titCTRICA~ ENGINF:ERING CouRSE- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. I. Vou.r•e• leatUng to graduate degree•• CouRs~ LEADING TO D:EGJt~E oF M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco; News, Confectionery Phone 292S- W CouRSE I,EADING TO DF:GRU or M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE I,EADING· To DltGREE or PH. D.-This course of two years of g~aduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARN~s, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE • ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILI,IS G. TucK~R, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. P ARKE:R, J. NEWTON Fntao, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $Iro. For catalogue or other information, address: ]OHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. AI,FR~D B. H UESTED, Secretary, \Everything for the College Man except Ex•m•'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 72.7 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

bis of . by ts is e, ' I J' TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Know.n wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in SchenectadJ' and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri· vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with G I El t • NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. enera eC riC 169JayStreet Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bag& and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men .

Babbitt · Clothes A,re far superior to the ordinary ready made clothes because ~they are the equal of the finest custo,m tailor's output. We are sole agents in this tri·city territory for Rogers Peet Co. and ~~The Frankel Fifteen\ (The greatest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o~ did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v .. ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if'you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICk SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Free Order Service Opposite Jay Street Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawinj lnka I Eternal Writinj h1k Enazroasinj Ink J Taurine Mucilajt il Photo Mounter Paate Drawinaz Board ,Paate Liquid Paate l Office Paste V eazetable Glue• etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

. ' : ' JAS. J. CORBETT . . Famous Prizefiahter and Actor, aaya: ''My entla~aia•m for the fragrance and mildne•• oF Tuxedo haa no limit. Tuxedo i• without doubt the moat aatiafo.ctory pipe tobacco. u ~~ Tuxedo Keeps You in the Pink of Condition Corbett is today as physi• cally vigorous and mentally alert as when he was champion of the world, because he takes good care of himself. He smokes Tuxedo- because he /enows that Tuxedo is mild, pleasant, wholesome and beneficial in every way. He takes no chances on other tobaccos. You can keep yourself sound-winded and in the pink of condition with this mild, fragrant tobacco. Smoke all you want of ·ruxedo; it can't hurt you and will give you added pleasure with each pipeful or cigarette. TIJe Per/eel To6acco for Pipe and Cigarette Mild, fragrant, delicious-and as gentle with your tender tongue as the touch of Spring-Tuxedo turns on a new inspiration. It can't bite, it can't sting be- cause that's cut out by the famous original \Tuxedo Process\ that first made men realize how good a pipe smoke could be. That process today stands supreme. It never has been duplicated. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Co~venient, glaaaine • wrapped, 5 C moisture • proof pouch • • • · In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c Famous green tin with rold } 0 lettering, curved to fit pocket C In Glass Humidors,50cand 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY •· . . ... ' .

Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save :money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds .. 0 •••••••••••••••• 0 .lOc ; C.olla·rs ...... 0 •• 0 • • • 0 •••.•••• 0 •••.••.•••• 2c , ' Union Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOc : l Underwear, Night Shirts : • and Pajamas... . ........... 6c each '. Hose ......... , . . . ... , ...... 3c per pair , ! Handkerchiefs ......................... 2c · Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of Caps, Go~ns and Hoods To the American Gollel!es and Universitiea from the Atlantic to the Pacific. CJass contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . To Cure Cold BUYA GAS HEATER . MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. .S. E. Stanes' Art 8tnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY The Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

Clothing Furnishings Hats, KEELER'S . --EUROPEAN-- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? , Broadway and Maiden: Lane Albany, N. Y The newest and best in each department. ~ W,ells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It''· m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires L!J Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIE,S Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN 'GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. ~GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached., Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard ' Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 I ay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES . Comparison is the · · Lever That Turns . FOR YOUNG MEN Trade Our Way · This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, . consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step . in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to :aU College Student is yours for the asking. . 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or o·ver if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its. own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels --------------.--20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 803 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER. Beta Tlleta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colleate Repreeentative 1908 1914 1915 are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function. The· colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody& Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. v a a fl I t1 s s· s· n a 0 p u b n 0 e S. a t] . 11 d a s f

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 MARCH 4, 1915 N0.17 UNION DEFEATS PRINCET~ON. Most Interesting Game of Season Witnessed By Huge Crowd. At quarter past eight last Saturday night a ferocio:us tiger about six inches high and a foot and a half long crept sinuously out from the east bleachers of the new gy·m. Lithely with an animated expression he turned his head slowly from side to side. Suddenly, swiftly, he leaped - leaped. straight at five young gentlemen in U nioa suits. But he leaped too short. Then for a n1omen t he stood dazed, turning his head as before, slowly from side to side. Then once more he leaped-and rolled in a fierce paroxistn on the floor ! It was an omen. Union defeated Princeton here last Sat- urday night at basketball. 'rhe score was 23 to 16. The game was the most brilliant, most thrilling and most satisfactory gam.e of basketball ever played here. Not a mom- ent was dull. Next to Union the team we should have best liked to win was Princeton. Fourteen hundred people saw the garn.e, among them a large cro·wd of Princeton rooters and it was a pleasure to hear for the first time-and we hope not the last -the famous Princeton \Tiger\ yell resound in the gym. Two graduate classes of Union -1911 and 1912-saw fit to hold reunion dinners that evening and to see the game after-vvards. rfhe circumstances whi~ch n1ade the ga1ne so especially thrilling are ancient history by this ti1ne. The night before Union had cle- feated Wesleyan here and on the same evening Princeton had beaten Cornell in Ithaca. These respective games preserved Union's lead in the Northeastern League race, and tied Princeton with Yale in the \Big League\ lntercollegiatee fight, while Cornell was summarily put out of the run- ning in that league. The decision of the Princeton-Union game gives Union just claims for recognition into the most rari- fied intercollegiate basketball circles. Princeton's team-work was excellent. They played an aggressive game from the tip-off while their greater weight forced Union to play a tight guarding game. The Princeton formation at tip-off-the ball go- ing fron1 center to guard to forward on a short followed by a long pass was a wonder. This was offset by Union's remarkable guarding and the sn1ooth team-work which won the game. Never did the team work better together. 'rhe Beavers and Erny Houghton played in absolute unison while 1\\eedy Woods' feeding the ball and elusive- ness were remarkable. Jin1.my Mudge guard- ed to perfection though he had few chances to shoot and therefore no baskets to his credit. But the principal stars of the game were undoubtedly Dave Beaver and Captain Houghton. Houghton's guarding kept his man fron1 scoring, while he himself caged a field basket and nine foul goals. Dave Beaver handled two n1en during the evening and kept their score down to two baskets

10 TIIE CON·CORDIENSIS. while he himself made three. F\or seven minutes after the tip-off neither team could score. The pace was so dizzy that it seemed impossible that the t\vo teams could keep it up. Nevertheless that same pace continued throughout the ,game. At the end of the seven .minutes a 1 foul gave Erny Houg11 ton his chance to score the ~rst .Point for Union. In quick succession another foul goal and a field goal from Erny's hands n1ade the score 4 to 0 in Union's favor.· During the next few min- utes Princ.eton ,wel1t ahead· for the only time in the game. · \fV\ro field. goals and a foul gave the Orange and Black 5 points, while another field goal soon made the score Princeton 7, Union 4. · A moment later Jake Beaver pulled the ball down on an assist from Brother Dave and dropped the sphere in to the ring for a field goal. Erny Hough ton tied the score on a foul chance~ Each tean1 scored a point and tlien Dave Beaver pulled the prettiest basket of the con.test. A little over halfway dovvn the court and from the side line he doubled up, shot up in the air like a coil-spring, and the ball nestled without a quiver inside th·e ring. That wasn't ·enough for Dave so he con- tributed another. basket a moment later. The < whistle blew just after Ernie shot another foul and the score was Union 14, Princeton 8. ' In the second half right off Dave and Jake Beaver each contributed a little round obolus to the mite-box and Captain Hough- ton shot a foul goal. ·Then Princeton de- veloped a whirlwind rush aided by a grow- ing propensity on the part of the Garnet to cotnmit fouls and scored 8 points in quick ~uccession on one field goal and six flivvers. Tangled up \Vith this streak of Princeton gains was a field goal by Woods and another which if it had not been nullified because he < \travelled\ with the ball, would have been the. prettiest shot of the game. He let :fire from way beyond the middle .of the court and the ball sailed daintily into the basket just as Tom Thorpe blew his little whistle. The score was now Union 22, Princeton 15, and a foul apiece ended the game-Union 23, Princeton 16. 'rhe summary : UNION. F .B. F.P. T.P. J. Beaver, rf. -------- 2 0 4 11udge, lf. --------- 0 0 0 \Voods, c. ---------- 1 0 2 I-Ioughton, lg. ------ 1 9 1f D. Beaver, rg. ------ 3 0 6 Totals ---------- 7 9 23 PRINCETON. F.B. F.P. T.Po Ferree, rf. --·-·------ 0 0 0 Jackson, If. --------- 2 0 4 O'Kane, lf. -----·---- 0 0 0 1\f.cTigue, c. -------- 1 0 2 Trenkman, lg. ______ 0 0 0 Maas, rg. ---------- 0 3 3 Cahill, rg. __________ 0 0 0 Paulson, rf. -------- 1 5 7 Totals ---------- 4 8 16 Score at half time-Union, 14; Princeton, 8. Fouls committed-Princeton, 15; Union, J4:. Referee-Tom Thorpe of Columbia. lJ m pire-- Reed of Springfield. Timekeeper -Fairman. Time of halves-Twenty min- utes. Attendance-1,385. UNION TRIUMPHS OVER CORNELL. 'Varsity Debaters Win Unanimous Decision. In the college chapel Wednesday evening, February 24, 1915, the debating team defeat- ed Cornell in the annual intercollegiate de- bate. Of the previous contests between Union and Cornell each had won two, so that special interest entered in the outcome of this debate. The question was, Resolved, That in view of the present situation the United

1rt cet :le. 15 ' )3 'oJ ' P. 4 0 2 1f 6 23 Po 0 4 0 2 0 3 0 7 . 6 tl, tl, a. ~r 1- 1. J'\ ,, ·- n t e THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 States should take imm·ediate steps to in- crease its arn1y and navy. The subject was timely and both sides presented influential argun1ent:s. The affirmative, supported by Union_, discussed the possibility of the United States becoming engaged in war, claim.e d that -vve are unprepared to meet such a possibility, and indicated that an increase is necessary for security. CorneH on the negative upheld that we are prepared to meet any emergency that might arise, and that there is small possibility of the .United States becoming involved in a war. Jacobs and Blodgett starred for Union. Jacobs was wonderfully clever in his direct argume11t,. and Blodgett's closing speech definitely settled the debate. Samuel S. 1-~eibowitz and Louis Y. Gaberman spoke n1ost convincingly for Cornell. The judges, J. W. Scudder, Albany; J. H. Burke, Ballston Spa., and A. L. Rohrer, Schenectady, awarded a unanimous decision to Union. 1~he Union team consisted of Milton H. Sternfeld, Avrom M. Jacobs and Ray- nlond S. Blodgett, with Spencer B. Eddy as alternate; Cornell, Samuel S. Leibowitz, Ralph H. Blanchard, and Louis Y. Gaber, man, with Remington l{ogers alternate . PREXY'S DATES. 1\Iarch first-Speaks to the Albany Union .l\Jumni at University Club. March third-Speaks in New York City. March seventh-Preaches at West Point. March fourteenth-Preaches at Williams services, and in the evening speaks at the \\ 1 illiams Y. M. C. A. WESLEY AN DEFEATED 31-10. lJnion defeated Wesleyan last Friday night here by a score of 31 to 10. If the gan1e had not been thrown into the shade by the Princeton contest of the following night ,jt would have passed for one of the most interesting games of the season. Union's team-work and guarding was superior to \Vesleyan's and after the second half,. which was close and exciting, began there was no doubt as to the outcome. Five minutes before closing time Captain Hough ton called his men off the floor and Captain Zimmer of the second team took charge with his ,cohorts. 'The score of the vVesleyan-Second Team game was Union 1, vV esleyan 0. At the first tip-off Teedy Woods stepped down to the basket and dropped the ball in. This cvvas quickly followed by shots by Dave Beaver, Houghton, Mudge and Woods again. In the meantime Captain Eaton of Wesleyan, who played by far the best game for the Methodist quintet shot a basket and several fouls. 1\\he second half Union scored 18 points to \V esleyan's 3. One of those eighteen was n1ade by Zimmer who after the second team went in scored on a foul. Mudge was high n1an in scoring with four baskets to his credit with ~eedy Woods next. Erny I-Ioughto_l's one field goal was offset by 8 foul baskets which gave him 10 points in the final result. The Beavers were in the game from start to finish with all the old \pep.\ Eaton and Harn1on played the best bas- ketball for \V esleyan. Eaton is without doubt one of the fastest n1en seen on the Union floor this year. The sun1n1.ary: lJNION. F.B. F.T. T.P. Houghton (Capt.) tg. 1 8 10 Beaver, 1£. --------- 2 0 4 \Voods, c.~~~--~=~~= 3 0 6 J. Beavr, rf. ________ 1 0 2 Mudge, lf. --------- 4 0 8 Zimmer, r.g. ------- 0 1 1 Girling, lg. --------- 0 0 0 GGalbraith, c. ------ 0 0 0 Scoby, rf. ---------- 0 0 0 l\1oynihan, 1£. --·---- 0 0 0 Totals ---------- 11 9 31

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. WESLEYAN. F.B. F.T. T.P. Pitt, rg. ------------- 0 0 0 Richards, lg. -------- 0 0 0 Wilkinson, c. ------- 0 0 0 Eaton ,Capt.) rf. ----- 2 2 6 Harmon, If. -------- 2 0 4 Totals ---------- 4 2 10 Referee, 0. \Al. Koult, Hamilton; 'Time- keeper, Newhall, of Wesleyan. ALUMNI RECENTLY ON HILL. Orson Richards '9 5, Archibald Derby '96, Major Troyford '96, John Sawyer '99, De- Forest Weed '03, Arnold Chapman '06, Philip S. Classen '06, Henry Lewis '09, Harry Schaupp '09, Ned Riley '12, W. W. Coykendall '12, Albion Kenworthy '14, Ray- mond Van Santvoord '14, Louis Case '14, \Buck\ Meneely '14, Raymond Shepherd '12, \Villiam Brooks '06, John C. Van Vast '63, Philip T. Hill '12, V. R. Tremper '13, Geo. R. Chaptnan, ex., '12, James \Velles '09, John Woodward, ex., '11, James B. Chapman '09, Judson Zin1.mer '10, Stanley C. Miller '11, V\T. H. Bray '12, A. K. Munson '12, John Burwell '13, A. Marx '08, W. McMillan '11, M. I-Iotchkiss '12, E. Bronson '11, Wood '10, H. Daley '13, \V. Yates, C. Sherman, R. Hal- lock. PHI DELTA THETA \OPEN HOUSE.\ Last Tuesday the New York Beta of Phi Delta Theta entertained with an \open house.\ A very enjoyable evening was spent by everyone present. THE TENNIS TEAM. Judging by t11e showing made in the tournament last fall, Union should duplicate the football and basketball seasons, and be the victor in this line of sports. Joe Soler has been working hard all winter to make a good schedule, and has received advice fro1n 111any sources. Practice will begin as soon as the weather and courts permit. The following men., vyho won in the the sen1i-· finals last year, and are expected to furnish valuable n1aterial this season, are Soler, 'J\T. Girling, Loughlin, E. E. Garrison, Gene Hummer, Foster Brown, Beckett and Clapp. The schedule, as it has been filled at this writing, is as follows : April 16th (Friday), {open). .i\pril 17th (Saturday) Rutgers, away. April 24th (Saturday) Wesleyan, at home. lVIay 6th (1'hursday) Vermont, at home. May 8th (Saturday), Stevens, at ho1ne. May 15th (Saturday), Colgate, at home. May 22nd (Saturday) Rutgers, at home. Besides these games, the tennis team will also play the Mohawk Golf Club, and the Schenctady Boat Club. ALUMNI NIGHT COMMITTEE. The Alumni Night Committee met Feb- ruary 19th to discuss plans for commence- lnent festivities. It is now working out plans for lighting the athletic field, for staging the class stunts and for conducting the singing contest for the Fitz-I-Iugh Ludlow prize cup. 'I'he committee has dra'\vn up the follow- ing rules to govern the award of the cup: Inter-class Singing Contest for the Fitz- Hugh Ludlow Cup. The object of this contest is to pro1note undergraduate singing and develop ne .. vV songs. In order that the contest may be judged fairly, it is suggested that it be con- ducted in accordance vvith the following rules. 1. When the contest is ready to start, the senior class will take a position in front of the boxes in the roped arena and after singing leave this position. The juniors, sophomores and freshmen to occupy the same position successively. 2. Each class shall sing one verse and chorus of the Terrace Song or two verses of the l\1arching Song. ( . ( J (

e . pp. he be nt er es THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 3. Each class shall sing a song having original 'vords. If the music for this song is written by a member of the class, credit for this feature may be given at the discretion of the judges. Typewritten copies and n1usical score of the original songs must be in the hands of Charles Waldron by June 1st in order that the songs may receive prop- er consideration by the judges. 4. The contesting classes will be graded as follows: 100 per cent attendance of class __ 10 points Musical merit in singing college songs -------·-------------- 15 points Musical merit in singing the orig- inal song ------------------ 40points Literary merit of original song ___ 25 points Excellence of music for original song if written especially for song by member of class ____ 10 points Total ----------------------100 points 5. It is recommended that the judges for this contest, three in nutnber, be selected frotn the alumni who have been connected with the College G1ee Club for the reason that they are more familiar with the re- quirements of undergraduate songs. FINAL MUSICALE OF COURSE NEXT TUESDAY. Tuesday night will be held the last of the course of college concerts under the man- agenlent of Ben :F·ranklin. The last concert will be given by .well known artists, the Kneisel Quartet, assisted by Miss Ada Sasoli, harpist. These 1n usicians are well known to .union audiences as they have ap- peared on the \hill\ several times. A large crowd will probably be out to see the last of these successful concerts. EXCHANGES. Alfred University has an organized Hik- ers' Club. The University of Pennsylvania is plan- ning to send a medical corps to aid in the European war hospitals. A course in recent European history is be ... ing given at Tufts. The lectures on the present war are open to the entire college. North western University has spent five 1nillion dollars in building a quadrangle of fraternity houses and non-fraternity dormi- tories. This plan has worked very satis- factorily. Dartmouth and Brown have renewed athletic relations after an eight years' breach. The students of Hamil ton College are preparing their first college song book. In the Cruft building at Harvard experi- tnents will be carried on with high voltage electric currents. For the purpose a storage battery of 100,000 volts is being installed. D's will be awarded to DePauw athletes, who served their college before the plan of giving the honor monogram was inaugur- ated there. Y. M. C. A. NOTES. Last Sunday Rev. R. C. Penny spoke at vesper service in the chapel. Owing to the rather sn1all nutnber in attendance the talk was quite informal. Next Sunday J an1es H. Potter, '12, will speak. Mr. Potter, who is now a senior at the Hartford Theological Seminary, will tell about the Eleventh Annual Conference of Eastern College Men, which is to be held at Hartford, Conn., on March 19-21, under the auspices of the Andover, Hart-- ford and Union r-rheological Seminaries. On March 10, Mr. C. K. Obert of the International Committee, is coming to lJ nion to try to interest sotne of the men in what is known as the \Fellovvship Plan.\ This plan is to get, each year, from the dif- ferent colleges and universities, about a hundred n1en, of the highest type, who, after a year's training, will be ready to

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. adopt association secretaryship as a life work. Don't fail to get in touch with Mr. Obert,. and see what he has to say about the plan. NEW BOOK SHELVES FOR .LIBRARY The library is installing on the lower floor three new Snead book stacks which will relieve the pressure on the present shelves which has been severe for as much as six years. These shelves are preferred by most librarians and are of a high type. The shelves are of metal and heavily Japanned with Bo\ver-Barffed finish. One feature of the shelves is the slat work which prevents the accutnulation of dust. The shelves are being set up between the pres- ent stacks in such a way as to leave a wide space on each side with man room behind them. SOMETHING OF INTEREST. The following item recently appeared in the question and ans,ver column of a New Orleans paper: A Reader: Please let n1e know something concerning the career of Alma Gluck, the noted soprano ? Alma Gluck \\Vas born at Bucharest, Rou- mania, in 1886. Hr maiden name was Reba Pierson, and she \vas brought to America vvhen but three years old. She was educated in the public schools and Normal College of Ne\v York City_, and at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Signor BuzzLPeccia, the well-known New York master, was her chief instructor, and she made her debut in that city, in \Werther\ in 1909, and during that season sang eleven different roles, only two of 'vhich she had previously studied. She is noteworthy as one of the few great singers who has attained first rank in grand opera V\rithout having first studied abroad. 1911 AND 1912 FEED AND MAKE PLANS. On Saturday night about 20 members of the class of 1911 gathered at Glenn's for a n1id-winter reunion dinner. Plans for the coming reunion in June were discussed and affairs of general interest were talked over. At the satne time the class of 1912 m.et at the Mohawk Baths Hotel, where a royal dinner was served. The matter of the first formal reunion of 1912 in June and steps which should be adopted to make it a huge success were dis- cussed. Twenty-five members of the class 1vere present. Greetings and counter greet- ings were exchanged between the two classes which later attended the Union- Princeton game in a body and cheered loyally under the leadership of \Tris\ Cof- fin, '11. AGAN WILL REPRESENT UNION. Concordy Manager Wins Oratorical Con- test. Karl E. Agan, '15, will repJ;\esent Union College in the annual state Intercollegiate Peace Association oratorical contest at the C. C. N. Y. in New York, March 15. The choice was m~de Saturday afternoon as the result of a contest in \\vhich four seniors and one junior at Union participated. James Fitzgerald was picked at alternate for the state contest. The prizes for the local ora- toricals Saturday was $25. The winner of the state contest in New York City will go to a sectional contest for which the prizes vvill be greater, and the winner of the sec- tion contest will go in turn to the national otatoricals. In addition to Mr. Agan and l\.fr. Fitzgerald, the other speakers were, Roger 1Vfacl\1illan, '15; Ernest B. Hough- ton, '15, and Newell Smith, '16. The com- mittee of judges was made of Professors I-Iale, Bennett and Kellogg. SWIMMING TEAM WILL MEET WES- LEY AN MARCH 12. Our switnn1ing tean1 is at last a reality and will take the opportunity of showing us what it can do on March 12th, when the 1 1 l ' .. , c: ( 1

at of be s- ss e e s THE CONC.ORDIENSIS. 15 team wiU n1.eet Wesleyan in the gymnasiun-1 tank. Tl1e following eve~ts will make up the m.eet: 200 yard relay race, 50 yard dash, 100 yard dash, 220 yard dash, 50 yarct breast stroke and fancy diving. .PHI BETA KAPPAS DINE . .An1.ong the 74 members who attended the annual dinner of the Upper Hudson Asso- ciation of Phi Beta Kappa at the Ten Eyck Saturday night, were 14 Schenectady mem- bers and n1any men from this city appeared atnong the speakers and officers. A poe-tn on the European war by Dr. John Lewis March, of Union College probably made the greatest impression of any one part of tlle very interesting program. The officers were re-elected as follows: President, John H. Finley ; vice-president, Justice William P. Rudd; secretary and treasurer, Dr. Morton Collins Stewart ; and the following execu- tive con11nittee 'vas elected: Dr. Charles Alexander Richmond, William S. Hollister, of Troy; Harlan H. Horner, of Albany, and Professor archaeological department. After the dinner a number of women rela- tives and friends of the members came for the speeches. Dr. Finley, when he had as- sumed his role of lJ ncle Sam, was presented by Dr. Stewart and he then introduced tbe other speakers. Those present from Sche- nectady included Professor Stanley Chase, Professor George Dwight Kellogg, Profes- sor Hofftnan, Professor Bennett, Professor Stewart and Professor March, of Union Col- lege; Charles R. 1\tiacKenzie, D. A. Young; Charles J\1cClair, D. S. Carpenter, John R. Bo\~man, Stuart Thomson and William F. Landi e. INTER-FRATERNITY CONFERENCE. Tuesday afternoon the Inter-Fraternity Council picture was taken at White's studio. Recently the conference levied a tax of one dollar on each fraternity to defray the ex- penses of some stenographic work which had to be done. Also several new by-laws were ratified. THE ELECTRICAL SHOW. Step right forward, gentlemen! The op- portunity of a lifetime has con1e :! A person- ally conducted. tour through the astounding n1arvels of the electrical world may be ·ob- tained .A.pril 6th and 7th for the small price of twenty-five ·cents, a quarter of a dollar. The 1nysterious craft of the telephone girl will be explained on real exchange. Switch- boards with several inter-communicating lines. l\. wireless outfit, incandescent lamps burning under water, lighting arresters, the evolution of the nitrogen lamp, an electric railroad, artificial lightning, electroplating, ~he astounding paradox of eggs poaching on tee, and hundreds of interesting and instruc- tive electrical phenomena will be exhibited. Fu~ther1nore to each lady accompanied by a Unton student in good standing will be given free, both Tuesday afternoon, April 6th, and W edn~sday afternoon, April 7th, a silver-tongued explanation of the latest n1~thods of housekeeping by electricity. For th1s feature we have procured at tretnendous cost and trouble the peerless orator, Wil- liam. Jennings \\Page, a favorite at the courts of seventeen queens, and known in every ward of the city. ;rhis feature alone will be 'vorth the price of admission. Don't for- get-it's the Electrical Show, Union Col- lege laboratory, April 6th and 7th. LOST! Son1.ewhere between the engineering building and Lenox Road, sometime be- tween Tuesday noon, April 6th, and mid- ni?ht ~pril 7th, a golden opportunity set wtth dtamonds of instruction and pearls of an1usement. 1', ' . . J . . ·.I .. ' ·' r 1; ... ,, .

i . i I I 16 TI-I:E CONCORDIENSIS. 'THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC ED.ITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz . Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N.Y. WHY LOST? The title of this editorial represents the query which has come to us from all sides ever since we first voiced our intentions of publishing such a nun1ber of the Con- cordiensis. Some have scoffed, others pro- tested, others laughed and a few have kept silent, probably because they considered our idea beneath their notice. With every- one we have agreed, n1ainly because that's the easiest way of keeping a n1an fro1n talk- ing to our discredit. But the time for all things must come and this is the day when it beco1nes necessary to let the world kno\v just why -vve adopted such a nan1e for this nun1ber of our publication, and those of our readers who have curio~ity enough to wade through this extended discourse on the subject, imagination enough to fill out its weaknesses and patience enough . to. con- sider it calmly will, in all likelihood, ,find out the excuse, if not the reason, fo:r ·.the existence of this number. Each year there comes a time when our pigeon holes become so crammed with old and useless copy, our files so filled with pictures which we have long refused to print, our brains so ·chock-a-block with use- less thoughts which have been raging in- cessantly for expression throughout the previous 1nonths that \re are moved to pity for our reporters, our artists and ourselves. This pity becomes so great in tin~e that we are compelled to give expression to this useless material which we have accumuJated and the question as to how we shall do it presents itself to our n1inds. After serious contemplation and thought- ful consideration as well as extended con- sultation with many of the . population of this great nation we came to the final con- clusion that the best way to save this mater- ial fro1n the dread waste-basket is to gather it together and, inflicting it upon the pub- lic in one awful mass, rid ourselves of it forever and have it over with in one battle. Now comes the point. What shall we call this conglon1eration of nothingness? .A .. s the poet says, \Limburger cheese by any other name \Vould smell as sour,'' so why disguise it? And yet, if we should call the material of this issue of the Concor- diensis by a name that fits it, many of our gentle readers would be offended and we should promptly be asked to resign our

de he th th to n- . lS it r- it e. . .. , THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 exalted position. Hence we are forced to excelled. In the second half of any game look about us for a name that fits, but it is usually expected that the contestants doesn't fit so well a~ to shock our patrons. will lag just a little behind the initial pace The F~rench have a marveHous knack at and will · continue along the same parallel this. A good illustration is the good· old · lines of speed and form. The Union five, French dish called \Pain Perdu,\ which n1eans ''Lost Bread.\ 'This dish, a very de- lightful one by the way_, is prepared from bread which should have been 1ost but is saved; nev-ertheless, by some culinary artist who happens to have :Plenty of sugar and eggs nearby and is handy· with the paint brush. ·Thus the lost bread is saved. This the lost material of the Concordy is saved- by putting it under an attractive cover and sprinkling little grains of sugar in between its most awful parts. In closing we should. like to promise our readers m.ost solemnly that, if they will only d forgive us this titne, we will never again of- . fend to such an extent. We make this promise most readily becau.se we realize that after this issue we will have but one n1ore in which to make our departure in a dignified n1anner and, stepping aside, allow our worthy followers to take upon then1- selves the responsibility of publishing the Concordiensis. BASKETBALL AGAIN. Since the last issue of the Concordiensis the Garnet basketball team has continued to no wonderous work on the court, resulting in two hard fought, decisive victories, one of which, at least, will go down in basketball history as a famous battle between well matched forces. The first half of the Wesleyan game showed in both teams swiftnes and life un- however, has learned the trick of never lag- ging, never tiring; never waning in strength and swiftness·;· the trick of finishing a game with the same cool-headedness and vim with which they begin ·operations. Our · honorable ·opponents on this occasion, how- ever,. seen1ed not; to· have learned this trick and so two teatns which went into··-the game evenly matched came out of the contest un- ·- equal. In view of the above facts, we take this occasion of congratulating the Garnet rnen upon the two things which won the · gan1e for them-perfect forn1 and an un- tiring spirit. The second string men who went in during the last few minutes of play did wonderful work and are not to be left out of our word of praise. The Princeton gatne was somewhat dif- ferent from the one on Friday night, in that the Princetonians did seetn to retain their usual form and cotnposure throughout, thus making the second half equal in excitement to the first. Princeton worked hard and is worthy of congratulation. T'hey should not be downcast on account of being overcome by the peerless Houghton aggregation and vve know that they are not. Both tean1s showed class and spirit throughout the game, but the Union bunch showed a little more of the fortner article consistently and thereby vvon the gan1e. 1\\he cheering was excellent at the Prince- ton gan1e and showed the effect of a solid unbroken stndent section filled with the 1nost hearty college spirit in1aginable. The . ~··· . ,'• ..

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. game was good, the cheering was good, everybody was happy. Hurrah for every- body! _,_ __ COMMENCEMENT. Now is the time to begin talking, thinking and planning commencement. The und·er- · graduate committee is at work and the Graduate Council has formulated many ex- cellent plans which are to be carried out with the help of the undergraduates. The springs days are coming soon-the days when we should and will gather our var- ious classes together in the evening for song practice. But, :first of all, the songs must be written and there are but few dark and wintry days left in which to busy our- selves at such tedious labor. Last year commencement was considered some\--vhat of a success. This year we should all strive to make it more of a success by lending- our most earnest efforts to the mak- ing and executing of the undergraduate part of the program. The part of last year's co1nn1.encement, as far as the undergrad- uates were concerned, which stood n1ost in need of repair was certainly the singing contest and it behoves every one of us to get to work during the spring term and try to n1ake this contest an excellent fea- ture. 'The thing to do now is to write songs that are capable of being sung, and the thing to do ·a little later is to learn how to sing these songs. Get to work then, ye connoisseurs of music and ye song poets who have the interest of com1nencen1ent at heart, for soon the time for such work will be gone and the tin1e for other labor will be upon us. I .. et's tnake the singing contest a feature \vorthy of the na1ne. NOTICE. All subscribers to the Conc<>rdiensis who have not paid for this year's subscription are respectfully requested to send the small sum of two dollars to Manag·er Agan at the Delta Upsilon House. BY WAY OF APOLOGY. In a recent issue of the Concordiensis there were published the words of a song entieled, \Hymn to the Idol.'' There were several errors in the song as it appeared and we beg to call attention to the corrected version as it is printed below: Hymn to the Idol. Words by Clowe '96. Music by Heermance '01. I From China, led by Fate, Through Union's old Blue Gate, Seeking to educate Your heathen child,- Clinging with frantic hold To you, fron1 soph'more bold,- With mystic mouth of g-old, To us you came. II. Through all the years since then Revered by Union's men, The Eastern seer's token Of happiness ; Bringing long life and eheer To all, when you appear, No fortune shall we fear While you ren1ain. III. Nevermore will you see Hwang ... ho and Pechili, Yunnan and old Shansi, Great Wall of Tsin; Land of wistaria vines, I..fotus, and river pines, Strange gods and lonely shrines, Dragon and sage.

. re THE CONCORDIENSTS. 19 IV. Spirit of far Cathay, Guarding, by p.ight and day, Terrace and garden way, 'vVith sleepless eyes; Wearing, without complaint, ):'our myriad robe of paint, Old Union's Patron Saint! I) on of Stone ! LOST COLUMN. Lo~t-Publication Boar d. Finder please return to Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Lost-One conscience. Concordy Board. Lost-Championship of the World. Sen- ior class basketball team. Lost-Beer bottle opener. Huge reward if returned to DeForrest, care Prohibition Club. Lost-Several varieties and shades of hair, somewhere between here and Troy. Freshman Class. Lost-A heart. Faculty, Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Lost-A good reputation, on publication of this issue. Delchamps, Concordy Office. Lost-One and seven-eights pounds. Bens Page. No reward offered. Lost-One razor. Prof. Atkinson, Col- lege Hill. Lost-~hree hack-saws and one chisel. Doc. Smack. Lost-Seventeen cents. to Mr. Stewey. Lost-Purity. Purity Lost-A regular hat. & Co. Return at once League. Brown, Humn1er Lost-Copy in this insertion. Printer. Lost-Perfectly good basketball game while in Schenectady. Princeton U niver-- sity. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. A regular meeting of the Chemical So- ciety was held Monday evening, March 1. I(arl Stoller read a paper on our mineral and chemical resources. The initiation of sev- eral new members will take place within two weeks. CLASSICAL CLUB NOTES, . . A play which Dr. Kellogg has been writ- ing is con1pleted, and now the persons for the different parts are being chosen. Some- time during the spring this play will be pre .. sented by the Classical Club at an enter- tainment to be given for the ''Agora\ and the \Aneadae.\ At the regular meeting of the Classic:tl Club held on Tuesday, February 2, Dr. Ben- nett read a paper. 1916 GARNET NOTES. If you have any snapshots of anything of interest to the college, pictures of fellows, views of the grounds, or, indeed, anything of this kind, hand them to the Garnet Board. 'rhis year there are to be several. pages of the Garnet devoted to these snapshots. Therefore, hand them in immediately, for no material of any kind whatever will be accepted after Saturday, March 6. HORRORS. Toads and Hoptoads. TO S'rEvV ART: Hail! gracious preceptor, tho' instructor of our sophomores in Dutch, this student body greets you well and hope your little green bag is within touch-not 1nany eccen- tricities we notice; but that little bag put you in Dutch. 'rO JOHNNY: To you, great Cassius Callan, I bend my pen with vin~, and ask where can your col- lege spirit be that you persist in leaving covers gritn, to bind our loved Konkordee, which issues forth each vveek? Can't you de- . v1se some means to reinstate art standards to the Greek? ,i . .. : ·j.l • I.:· .. ·I· . '~

20 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. 'TO MONSIEUR ~.\.TKINSON: A marvel, yes, a prodigy but easily ex- plained though dignified, you wear a beard. 'I've heard it said, 't\vas 'cause it pained your person, when a razor's used, but then you're not to be abused. I say-if so, why keep yourself. I'm also too lazy to shave my- self. A. G. S., '18. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Twelfth. This is not a very serious chirp. In fact, to be in line with the spirit of this issue of the ''Concordy,\ the Innocent Bystander felt it encumbent upon himself to lose some- thing, and so he has \lost\ his grouch for one week, and is even so inconsistent as to be willing to admit that there are one or two good things around the campus. \Lost\ originally was to be applied to those young men who contemplated the first step in the matrimonial entanglement. We tnust assume at the beginning that the fond parents were willing that this fatal step be taken, and that they are going to marry and live happy ever after. \Ve shall not tnake the trite defense of the young engaged col- lege man that his peculiar position sets be- fore hiln an ideal to guide his steps aright. Anybody could think of that. But let us ··see son1e of the greater advantages that arise when the young lady has consented ·to wear your fraternity pin. First, there is the decorative advantage. ~After y~ars of extended and thorough scien- tific investigation, it has been denlon- strated beyond the shadow of a doubt that there is nothing that so adds to the beauty of a man's mantelpiece, bureau, or the walls of his room as a picture of a fair damsel. She is perfectly at home in the inside of a watch. She safeguards that watch. Who would think of putting a watch \in soak\ with an embellishment such as this? ~hen there is the advantage of conven.,. ience. Our ordinary, inaffianced young man, when he wishes to invite a lady to a dance, game, musical, or whatnot has to weigh his indebtedness to this one or that, consider the personal charms of this one or that, the dis- tance away, the dancing ability, and so on, and so on, until at last he finds himself in a tnaze of indecision, and, taking a :final chance, invites one, only to find she has re- ceived and accepted a bid the day before. Not so with our engaged hero. He has his mind all made up for him just whom he is to es- cort, and when, and where. With this sav- ing of mental energy, is it to be wondered that physicians claim that an engaged man's collegiate work is higher than that of his unfortunate brother? There might be other benefits mentioned, such as the physical benefit derived by a thorough pumping up and uown of the right arm the day after the engagement is announced, but any benefit such as this n1igb.t seen1 trivial in the light of those given before; so we shall cease this idle babbling. Nothing personal is meant; nothing per- sonal is meant; for the third and last time v.re repeat : Nothing personal is meant. TI-IE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. POOR FROGS Always Leap-Year ' .. 1 1 1 1 ] (

. ,, a V- . d, a . lS . lS THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 SOME LOST QUOTATIONS FROM THE SAGE'S. * * * * \Vhat's saved affords No indication of what's lost . Owen Meredith. When wealth is lost, nothing is lost; \Vhen health is lost, something is lost ; When character is lost, all is lost! \Vise men ne'er sit and wail their loss But cheerly seek how to redress their harms. -Shakespeare. ~iarried n1en -~---~-----------~----- 3 Engaged men ------------------------ 24: l\ien supected of the latter crime -------- 20 l\fen with level hea:ds ---------------- 7 A list of the names of our engaged sen- iors was to have been published in this issue but unfortunately it was lost and so the nam·es of the offenders will not be made known until the \Found number of the Con- cordiensis makes its appearance. N. B.-The editor doesn't contemplate the publishing of any such issue as mention- ed above. J\.1atritnony-The high sea for which no *M. E. means matrimonial editor. con1pass has yet been invented. -(Heine.) MINUTES OF Translation: Lost SENIOR CLASS LOST. Statement of M. E.* According to the latest statistics which have been piled up on the touching sub- jects of engagements, the senior class seen1s to be hopelessly lost to all that is considered within the realn1. of common sense and ' good reasoning. The following data will show the condition of the class: An Irregular Meeting of the Publication Board. Meeting came to order by common con- sent at 4 :30 plus. Mr. Barnes consults the secretary as to the whereabouts of the chairn1an. Mr. Danna reports the chair- man as lost. Those who are not absent re- quest Mr. Barnes to take the chair which he does most fluently. Mr. Barnes calls for reading of the minutes. Secretary re- ports the minutes of the previous meeting lost. Mr. Barnes calls for reports of com- mittees. Dean Ripton objects and moves that the n1inutes be adopted as unread. Motion seconded and lost. Mr. Barnes calls for unlost business. JV[r. Danna shows con- tract for cuts to Mr. Barnes. Mr. Barnes reads contract to himself and calls for motion as to contract. Moved, seconded and carried that contract be ratified. The corn- lnittee appointed at previous meeting for notifying the Konkordee of its illegality re- ports that said publication has since become legal by telephone. JVIr. Hokerk moves and 1\ir. Santee seconds that the cotnmittee be given a vote of thanks. Motion lost. Election of Officers. Mr. Danna railroads the following slate through the wakeful n1embers of the board : President, 1v1r. Mandeville. i j' ' '· ! I ' ' '' • ' .i ' ! ; \ ; '

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Vice-president, Mr. Delchamps; Treasurer, Mr. Hokerk. Mr. Chairman lectures on No-Deal Agree- lnent. Mr. Danna receives criticism Al- fonso-Gastonly. Meeting adjourned by common consent at 4:35 plus. H 'We are lost,' the captain shouted, As he staggered down the stirs.\ THE WAY TO A MAN'S HEART Or the Advice of a Wise Girl. If 'tis true a young man's fancy In the springtime turns to love ; If 'tis true he swears to love you 'Til the stars fall from above. If you fancy his attention, Thinking well of his intention, Have a wish for his retention, Feed him well. All your dimpled smiling glances Do not settle in his heart. All your graceful little movements Do not sharpen Cupid's dart. For, unless you really feed him, He will never think you need him And he'll never let you lead him, If you don't. lie would rather have a salad Than to hear you call him \love;\ Rather eat a good Welsh rarebit Than to be your turtle dove. With good biscuits feed affection, And with candy soothe dejection, You will 1neet with no objection From a· man. \Do you know where the 1i ttle boys go who don't put their Sunday School money in the plate?\ \Y es'm-to the movies.\-Wililams Pur- ple Cow. BASKETBALL SEASON TO DATE. U.U. Opp. Dec. 30. :M. I. T. at Schenectady ... _ 52 14 Jan. 6. Cornel at Ithaca -------- 18 24 Jan. 9. West Point at West Point 21 12 Jan. 16. St. Lawrence at Sch'tady 29 '20 Jan. 23. William at Schenectady __ 41 17 Jan. 29. Colgate at Schenectady __ 25 17 Feb. 6. Springfield at Sch'tady __ 41 18 Feb. 13. R. P. I. at Troy -------- 27 8 Feb. 19. Wesleyan at Middletown 20 18 Feb. 22. Williams at Williamsto'n 23 20 Feb. 26. Wesleyan at Sch'tady ___ 31 10 Feb. 27. Princeton at Schenectady 23 16 \I hear that there is a lot of rivalry be- tween the allopaths and the homeopaths.\ \Well what of it? 'All paths lead but to the grave.' \-Sun Dial. \Anyhow there's one advantage in hav- ing a wooden leg,' 'said the veteran. \What's that?\ said his friend. \You can hold your socks up w~ith thun1b tacks.''-Columbia Jester. EVEN THE YOUNGSTERS ARE WISE. rrhere are lnighty few life buoys on the sea of matrimony.-Elmira Free Acaden1y \Vindex.\ We've been waiting a long while for th~t mother of mine, haven't we, George. (Sullenly) Hours, I should say. Oh, George, this is so sudden !-De Witt Clinton \Magpie.\ Get behind the E. E. show and push. THE MUSICAL CLUB'S SEASON IN REVIEW. 1~he Musical Club had a highly success- ful season this year. Beginning with the Ballston Spa concert a series of local con- certs were given, at Amsterdam, Scotia, Lansingburgh, Albany and Schenectady, at 2 1 ' J c c \ ..1 ( ! ( 1 t t ( ! .

14 24 12 '20 17 17 18 8 18 20 10 16 be- \ to av- sea n1y IN at THE CONCORDIENSIS. 23 all of which the clubs made a decided hit. During the Thanksgiving vacation the clubs ·went on the road, playing at Sayre, Elmira, Binghamton and Rochester~ The season culminated in theN ew York trip, which was considered the most successful trip in some years. At Montclair, N. J., a mammoth audience witnessed the performance, and in New York a large number of alumni turned out. The club loses this year F. L. Smith, Gerry \Vood, F. F. Richards, of the Albany Law, Stan Smith, Marvin and Boomhower. But the personnel as it remains without th'ese men, and the new material to be ex- pected from the next freshman class, as- sures as creditable a showng next year. IF WE ONLY TOLD THE TRUTH! 1. The Prof. knows a lot more about this sub i ect than I do. \' 2. No, I don't want a dance with your girl; she steps all over a fellow's feet. 3. I wouldn't be bumming cigarettes to- night if I had fifteen cents to buy some. 4. No} I wasn't good enough to make the Glee Club. 5. I'd like you a lot better if you weren't such a darn fool. 6. I won 1ny U by a blooming stroke of 1 uck last spring. 7. I vvouldn't be mercenary enough to marry for any amount of money-less than a thousand dollars. 8. That was a rotten dinner I had over at your house last night. 9. Come again when you don't feel like talking so much. 10. We know this lost issue of the Con- cordiensis is awful punk. WAR NEWS. A&\gie's asking alms for the artillery. Belinda's binding belly-bands for Belgians. Clara's counting coughdrops for Cossacks. Diana's denting dum dutn.s for Dragoons. Effffie's etching en1blems for the Ensigns. Fannie's fetching fishballs £or the Frenchies. Gaby's garling goldfish for the Germans. 'attie's 'itching 'orses for the Hinglish. Iona's ironing icebags for the Irish. Jennie's joining jewsharps for the Japs. Katy's killing Kitcheners £or the Kaiser. Lizzie's lifting lingerie for Lancers. Mary's making moonshine for the Monks. Nellie's 'nitting nothing for the Nuns. Olive's opening oysters for the Old Guard. Prunella's painting pretzels in Przemysl. Quola's quelling quinzy in the Queen's Own. Rachel's rolling Rameses for Russians. Sister Susie's Sewing Shirts for Soldiers. Tillie's toughening tripe for two tight Teu· tons. Ulma's unwrapping unionsuits for Uhlans. \ 1 iola's vaporizing Vodka in the Vosges. Wilhelmina's wishing warts on Wilhelm. Xanthippe's exhaling xylophones for Xmas. Y enny's yielding yeastcakes for the Yiddish. Zuzie zaid zhe zent zome zoap for ze Zuaves. -Cornell Widow. PRECISION. The motto above the great editor's desk read: \.Accuracy Accuracy, Accuracy.\ Therefore, the story turned in by the cub reporter contained this statement: \Three thousand nine hundred and nine- ty nine eyes were fixed upon the speaker.\ \\iVhat n1eans this foo1 statement?\ asked the great editor, as he prepared to use the blue penciL-Literary Digest. 1917 IS GETTING THERE. Cupid has slipped one over on Skip Noyes. He has confessed to an affair of the heart and has admitted his willingness to test the theory that two can starve as cheap as one. The engagement of ICenneth S. Noyes to Miss Sara H. Bovvyer of Chestertown, N. Y., vvas recently announced. ;, 'I i ,\ '., ,,! .' .. ; ' ,t < ' <' < ·.; i.' ,,

24 THE CONCORDlENSIS. A DILEMMA. Soph: ''I hear the retreating French were driven in. Seine by the Germans.\ Frosh: \Well if they had advanced they would have got in Dutch.\ THE FOURTH DIMENSION. \A two by four by six by gosh !\ Hoffy: \Frogs can be made to do lots of things after their heads have been cut off just as though they were alive.\ Jake: ''Croak.\ Johnny March : ''Authors often have their lovers use baby talk to each other.\ fnquisitive Junior: \Is that true to life?\ J. M. : \You ought to know more about that yourself.\ ANOTHER FORD JOKE. rn Zoology Lab-\I noticed a big hump on an earth worm, so I cut him open.\ \What did you find ?\ \A Ford.\-Ex. One morning Mrs. Gad decided to spend the day visiting. Her grocer had not called by the time she was ready to go so she wrote on a card : '\All out. Don't leave anything.\ And tacked it on the door. When she returned in the evening she discovered that the house had been ran- sacked by burglars. On the card she found these words added: ''Thanks. We haven't left much.\ AN EXPURGATED LOVE STORY Or the Bird of Paradise Plucked. Her eyes 'vere like Cerulean skies; her smile the sunshine on the lily; her hair like golden grain that swells and dips in cadence slow beneath the gentle breeze from daz- zling vault of August skies; her laugh sur- passed the tinkling music of the booklet's waters babbling o'er the pebbles through the grot caressing moonbea1ns on their bosnm. Nor was there aught vvithout the reahns celestial wherewi thai to liken grace as she possessed it. And he-was strong like-like-li-· ke- well like \an ellurn jist thet's iron-plated.\ (I<inder slipped there in my diction, but here goes for a brace.) Nut brown hair did half conceal a massive brow of wisdom and of force. (How's that?) Let's see-what el-se.?) A youth was he just made for lady fair as she. (That's all.) She'd grown to manhood-he to enchant- ing V\romanhood (Hold on-that's \vice pro·- teron\ or \ucteron versa\ ratther )-well • they'd growed up together, had played dolls vvi th each otheF, shot craps, and the likes and seemed to be ·each others e'er the wed- ding bells pronounced their clanging doom. Besides he'd rescued her frotn a barbed wire fence, driven off a ferocious mouse that with sparkling eyes and glistening teeth threatened her with dismemberment, had rescued her from the turbid waters of the- of-of a foottrack made by a number 11 slipper, and by these and other acts had a right to assume ownership of her hand and heart. (All perfectly orthodox development of the catastrophe you understand.) vVell he got a job at $6.50 per, writing stuff like this and - why the poor boob tnarried her. J. B. T., '16. AN OLD ONE, BUT GOOD YET. A kiss is a peculiar proposition. Of no use to one, yet absohtte bliss to two. The sn1all boy gets it for nothing, the young man has to steal it and the old man has to buy it. The baby's right, the lover's privilege, the hypocrite's mask. ·To a young girl, faith ; to a married woman, hope ; and to an 9ld maid, charity. Bob: Understand that you're paying hush 1noney to a large concern. Heinie: Yes, I buy soothing syrup by the wholesale.

the . but did • kes bed hat eth ll a ent no an by ; If you want an~thing from QUINN'S Schenectady's Gre.atest Drug Store Just Telephone 12 8 5 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as its relation to quality. $3.00 would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful high price to pay for a ''movie.'' Steefel prices now are 25% off - the qualities are of the \opera'' type-. high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our prict's we say good-bye to profits-the farewell isn't sad, however, because it sends ottt our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. Spring Display of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun: 5 & lOc ·wall :paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothina Over lOe Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falls WATERS, Custom Tailor 156 BARRETT STREET Imported and Dome:stic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J ' • '• l' ,' ',,_ • '• ',f > ' II • STYLISH PUMPS For Dress or Str~et wear, in dull and patent leather-tango qo!(lll, all rubber or disc rubber insets ~fine for dancing or general wear. $3.50 to $5 PATTON & HALL 245 State Street, Schenectad7, ==--,.------,- ·--· -- --- --· --- ~- ' r ' ' • J ,• r ' ' • I ~ ,' \:\- ',.~ ' ' ~ .· . '!

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE There is no Music Like Gioeia's Orchestra 5 !:?u:ul ~~~~Pe~n:~ 5 ================ '. 3()2 Washington Avenue, Albany, N.Y. Telepho.ne. Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in :• ---------------------- Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, · with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover .shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. N. K. McNEILL Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott 'ferrace Schenectady, N. Y. Ra! Ra! Ral ·Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Eook for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid Club, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Scltenectady' s Leading Flower Shop ~ulius fgtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ·ED· THE ' BARBER THE BARBER .. SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New S-hoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty--Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

! ; ) I ; !' Bellinger Paint :Co. PAINTS, OlL$ Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe& 212 So. Centre St. ·~~~ ~ •tJ Walk-Over shoes will take ~~ ~ you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady : A . .• R•.. • ZI.ta. 's·· ·.O·rch.·. estra furnished .music at Union College 1905 'b6, 'o7, 'oB, 'og, 'ro, ·r 1, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World H.R.PHONEMain3483-W Off.. dR 167H \I·t nSt Al'bany Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ICe an e8., . • ami 0 •' • . TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442. State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & 1-forris Aves; Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS ·CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 126 State Street Eyes Tested and Glnsses Fittt<i THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. .I ., ·!ft j!' : i ~ i jl ,, . IN; . :. I' j j lji' .; ~ I : . . ,II '' 'fl' i . j i• I ·il ,: . :i! ;: ' I '. 'I: l·' i) ' ~· ~. /t' I 1, . l·: I' ; ' ~ t: l I ' I ' '' .•'' ,,,

The Clubmen of America are Enthusiastic '' B·ull '' Durham Smokers No body of men has greater opportunities for wide experience, comparison and selection. They have the means to command and the trained taste to appreciate the best of everything in life. In the cigarettes they make for themselves, to their individual liking, from \Bull\ Durham tobacco, these men find the delicious freshness, incomparable mild- ness and unique fragrance, that afford supreme en- joyment and satisfaction. At all times and occasions it is correct, fashionable, epicurean to \RollY our Own.\ 6 GENUINE \BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO Macle from the finest, mellow-ripe leaf grown in the famous \bright\ tobacco district of Virginia-North Carolina, that supplies the world with ciga- Aak f,r FREE rette tobacco. Much of the deli- packa•eof upaper•'· cate flavor and fragrance of this leaf escapes from the ready .. made cigarette. These Tare qualities can only be retained in the bulle of tobacco in the \Bull\ Durham sack, and enjoyed in the /rub- . rolled \Bull\ Durham cigarette. FREE An 1~1ustrated Booklet, showmg correct ~- way to .. RollY our 2:E§«~ Own·· Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will both he mailed, free, to any address in United States on postal request. Address \Bull\ Durham. Our. ham, N. C. Room 140P. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. with each 5c •ack. !, i

OF COURSE there is always a caJl for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save .for the necessary ones In the Th~ Schenectady Savings Ban·k COR. STATE AND CLlNTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 NOYES His Complete Works The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. \On your way to the poat office\ The PURE FOOD Store -------------~ THE MOHICAN MARKET, .. The Big Store Around the Corner 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store- Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRK'PATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y. t : ' ! i• I !: ·:·j 1 .

The Schenectady Clothing Co .• Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freema,n Suits a,nd Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward F11U - Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT SHOES Reductions on Winter Weight Shoes worth you:r while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENN:EY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the lowest Cash Prices. 1 QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street

I Stoll,s Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve· Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. • · Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489 .. H. l Schwartz Tailoring co. , ·wn EN IT RAINS , · · lN A HURRY Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at · . . . . OUT FOR PLEASURE less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. Call 4489 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. KJLDER & HICKS The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp · 'The Capitol Diatrict's Greatest Trunk & Leather Goods Store A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. ·. 957 State .Street. Telephone 1909- W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee j~.\,;WAY.t 177 Jay Street -~-· 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~t:~.,Ao\.E- Albany, N. Y, REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are yo·u posted on just what's new this year? A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Naaaau Street • • pa ng lOS. 520 Sth A•e., New York S~nd for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. · 841 Union St. Phone 2540 ---------------- MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery C. A. Whelan & Co. is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CR~M, OUR SPECIALTY I S4 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\ ; ; l' ! ; ; ·I ~: !i

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Sty lea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tail ora. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made a·nd the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

VOL. 38 MARCH 11th, 1915 NO. 18 ' ' ' ' . '' 1' 'j . '' I I • I ' ~ :, ; ' ~ , ; I I i •I. ''. ~ i i ; .,. II ''· 'l j '' j. 'i l·· I' I i '·; I I . I :•, I, . t•.' . .. • I'

UNION UNIVER ITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Cfntrmes leading to the degree of A. B. C~ASSICAL CoURSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- duded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRsE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree o1 Ph. B. l,A 'tiN -SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. §. SciENTIFIC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E .. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELE:C'rRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE ol? M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRs:rt LEADING To Dl!;GRE!t og P:a:. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admisQ sion the degree of Mo E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, pracQ tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: Wu.r.rs G. TucxEn} M. D. 0 Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA]. PARKER} ]. NEWTON FilRO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each yea:r is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $ro; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albatiy, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $9o.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuEsTED, Secretary, ., Everything for the College Man except Exsme\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

of Y. Y. of o its is fee, 'TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical i( J; : ~ '! :: •,, j \ \ I LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes · $6.00 to $8.50 ~· Known where'Ver Good Shoea are worn. I• I I i I I I I' I I i: I' A!llstylea and leathera LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAIL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancinll in Schenectad7 and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p .. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710- W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric • NICKLAS Phone 2322· W. 169 Jay Street Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men. i V· ! .: •. ) ~' ' )' ' ' \I, j I, ' I ! I

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready made c]oth,es because the·y are the equal of the finest custom tailor's output. We are sole agents in this tri·city territory for Rogers Peet Co. and ''The Frankel Fifteen'' (The greates-t $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in th-e· stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o-.e did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing you-r shpes repaired by the olq S!yle. hand method way, if you knew the supenonty tn our up-to-date machine way of repairing. B·ALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposit~ Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 345.6 Higgins' ( Drawinll lnh I Eternal W ritinat Ink EnJZroaeinat Ink I Taurine Mucilalle \') Photo Mounter Paate I Drawinat Board Paate Liquid Paate L . dffice Paate VeJZetable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The S~ign of the Gl)lden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER PAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

he ro- KS so John Philip Sousa The March K . .:xP.g, says: ~~Tuxedo gives an ab.,olutely satis- fying smoke, fragrant~ 1Tdild and pleasant.'' f.rL ~~ ... Tuxedo in the Day's March All the vim, energy and enthusiasm you get out of a Sousa march you get out of the steady use of Tuxedo. Tuxedo is as cheering and inspiring as the \Stars and Stripes Forever,\ because Tuxedo is ahvays re- freshing, beneficial and \\rholesorr.te. To be pipe- happy is on a par \vith being mind .. happy. Then you can get the· punch into life I And it's certainly worth while. The short -line to pipe peace is via The Perfect Tohacco for Pipe and Cigarette MaCle by the famous \Tuxedo Process,\ Tuxedo is the one tobacco in the world that will not bite your tongue, no matter how much you smoke of it. The extra- choice Kentucky Burley leaf from which Tuxedo is made is acknowledged by experts to be the world's premier smoking ... tobacco leaf. This is why Tuxedo is so rnild and mellow, so pleasantly aromatic, so delicious in flavor. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient, glassine-wrapped, 5·C moisture proof pouch. • • • In Tin Humidors, 4~./ _ un.d 80c F amoos green tin, wi~h go!ll } 0· · lettering, curved to fit podu:t C In Glass Humidors, .'50c and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY ; ' I, I· J, '', ,!,

·say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money Note these Prices: Shirts aU Kinds ..................... lOc Collars ................................. 2c · Union Suits . e •• ., •••••••••••••••••• lOc · Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajarnas . . . . ........... 6c each Hose ....................... 3c per pair Handkercb.iets ....................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makers of Caps, Gow-ns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are in vi ted to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . To Cure Cold • ttl BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500- Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' 1\rt ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN The Schenectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 318 .. 320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

d ·Clothing F urnis·hings Hats. We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ij Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of .Rubber We Have It\ : m Athletic Goods ·Rubber Auto Goods Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S -----EUROPEAN-- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. :Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, tt Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 2.5o ROOMS · ~Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New ;Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard 'Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\ ,, ,· r, !· I. 1: ', . i i :.1 ' :11 I ,i ' I '• J .

ir Ready to Wear STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the I Lever That Turns Trade Our Way . and Custom Made FOR YOUNG MEN . . This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, .consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all 'College Student is yours for the :asking. 10 Per Cent tieduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 ,. 507 State Street ',Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: . Men's soles, sewed ________ 7Sc Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Io~adies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ SO to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1012 1913 191. 1915 WHITE, 229 State Street CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S College R~preoaeontAtive are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc, Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298- W. 722 Eastern Ave.

t• • The· Concordiensis VOL. 38 MARCH 11, 1915 N0.18 UNION DEFEATS COLGATE, 29-15. Champions of Northeastern League. Colgate's basketball five met a most deci- sive defeat, 29-15, at the hands of Union's championship quintet at Han1ilton Satur- day night. As a result Union will retain the Wright-Ditson trophy for another year as champion of the Northeastern League for 1915. 'rhis year the Garnet was unde- feated by any team in the league. After the first few minutes of the gan1e the outcome was evident and throughout the contest Union cotnpletely outclassed the Maroon. Although Colgate secured a four point lead at the first of the game their hopes died when the team work of the Garnet began to prove effective. At half time Union lead in the score 17-10. The last half of the game was a repeti- tion of the first period, Union leading throughout in the tally. It was a big night for the Garnet for \Teedy\ V\r oods made four baskets from every conceivable angle and \Dave\ Beaver, who also played a star floor game, scored three times. Captain Jioughton added nine points to the score on fouls. Three men were tried against Woods but nothing could hold the Garnet down. Captain Benzoni, Van Alstyne anrl Kennedy played the best games for CoJ- gate. The Union second team played Col- gate 0-0 during the last three minutes of the game when Captain Houghton took the 'varsity from the floor. Haubner repla~ed J\1udge for a few min- utes in the second half and put up some good basketBall securing a neat field goal besides getting into the team-work. This week Union will complete her schedule by playing R. P. I. in the gymnasium. The 'varsity will play the entire game for this ;s the last basketball contest in which Cap- tain Houghton, Woods, and the Beaver twins will play together. A whirlwind of a gan1e is anticipated. Following is the sun1mary of the Colgate game: UNION. F.B. Mudge, l.f. -------- 0 Haubner, l.f. ------ 1 J. Beaver, r.f. ______ 2 \i\r oocls, c. --------- 4 D. Beaver, r.g. _____ 3 II'ghton (capt.) l.g. o Scoby, r.f. ---------- 0 l\1oynihan, l.f. _____ 0 Galbraith, c. ------- 0 Girling, r.g. -----·-- 0 · Zitnmer, l.g. ------- 0 'rotals -----·---- 10 F.T. T.P. 0 0 0 2 0 ·1 0 8 0 6 9 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 29 ! ·; ti tF· ,,

10 THE CO·NCORDIENSIS. COLGATE. F.B. F.T. T.P. 5 7 0 4 0 0 Kennedy, l.f. ------ 1 Van Alstyne, r.f. ---- 2 Johnson, c. -------- 0 Benzoni {Capt.) r.g. 2 0 4 Stewart, l.g. -------- 0 K.ahn, l.g. --------- 0 0 0 0 0 Totals -----·------ 5 5 15 Referee--Deering of Manhattan. Time- keeper-Jones. UNION MEETS ANDRUS CLUB Of Wesleyan University in Tank Tomorrow For some time Union students as well as many of the alumni have looked forward vvith a great deal of anticipation to some intercollegiate com petition in the Foote Memorial pool. Tomorrow night the first event of this kind will take place when our team meets the Andrus Club of Wesleyan Universtiy. The Garent team, headed by Phil Mallen '16, has been putting in some consistent practice during the past few weeks and it is expected that the events of tomorrow evening will be close and well contested. Fron1. all reports, the Wesleyan boys are good and an excellent exhibition of the aquatic arts is expected. The entries for the various events will be as follows : 200 yard relay race-Wesleyan, Mc- Carthy, Morningstar, Sutherland, Turner; Union, Y ounie, Toth, Reed, Smith. Fancy Div.ing-Wesleyan, Kynett, Hal- lock, l\f.orningstar; Union, Edgerton, Brown, Mallen. 50 yard swi1n-Turner, McCarthy, Morn- ingstar, for Wesleyan; Mallen and Reed, Union. 220 yard swim-Sutherland and McCar- thy, for Wesleyan; Bull and Mallen for Union. Breast stroke-Morningstar and Kynett for Wesleyan; Eldred and Mallen for Union. 100 yard swim-Turner and Sutherland for Wesleyan; Thiallen and Reed for U niol1. CLASS DAY ELECTIONS. The seni.or class met Friday noon to elect its officers for the annual class day cere- n1.onies which will take place on the Mon- dav afternoon of commencement week. •. These exercises will he held, as usual, in Johnson's garden beneath the old N ott elms and will be open for the enjoyn1ent of the public as well as the college. Gerritt V. Wood of Buffalo, a men1ber of the Sigma Phi Society, was elected class marshal; Edward P. Culver, of the Psi Upsilon fraternity, was chosen pipe orator; Karl E. Agan of Warrensburg was elected ivy orator. Mr. Agan is a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity. W. A. Hughes of Schenectady was elected class prophet. Maurice R. Brown of Am- sterdam, class poet; Ernest B. Houghton of this city,· and a member of the Delta lTpsilon fraternity, was elected class orator, and David B. Page, a member of the Sig1na Phi Society, was chosen keper of the jug. This completes the senior elections for the year. The above named, together with the class president, Lynde Hokerk, and the class his- torian, Harold J. Delcha1nps, both of who1n were elected early in the year, will parti- cipate in the garden exercises in June. ENGLISH CLUB. Dr. E. E. Hale read a very interesting paper on \The Poetry of the Last Thirty Years/' at the meeting of the English Club Friday evening in Washburn Hall. He gave the members some reminences of the poetry which appeared during his college days and the few years following. The

ynett for lll0l1, elect cere- in elms the class Psi p1pe burg nity. Am- hton a tor, the . his- holn arti- He the lege The TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. lt paper 1ead to a lengthy discussion of recent poetry and of contemporary versifiers. Considerable bu~iness came up for dis- cussion previous to the literary end of the program. One of the matters vvhich was settled was the date for the election of new members-March 26. Plans for the annual English Club play were also taken up. l\1ore concerning the play will be announced later. THE 1916 GARNET. Practically all the material for· the Garnet is now in, and it is confidently expected that it will be ready by May 1, 1915. The following contracts have been award- ed: Printing, Hamilton Printing Co., Al- bany_, N. Y.; engraving, Electric City En- graving Co., Buffalo, N. Y.; inserts, E. A. Wright Bank Note Co., Philadelphia, Pa. 'rhis year's book will be bound in garnet pebbled leather on board, and will contain 1nore engravings and drawings than any previous year book. The board is assuming a very heavy expense in producing the big- gest and best Garnet Union has ever seen, and everyone should purchase a copy. Every student ought to back the board not only because of the expense to which it has gone, but because he should possess a rec- ord of the achievements of this year, one of the biggest years in the history of Union College. The price of the book is $2.50, and orders may now be given to Carl Dan- ner. DELTA PHI RECEIVES VALUABLE RELIC. 1~he JVIisses Putnan1 of Saratoga, have recently presented to the Delta Phi fratern- ity a chair used by their father, George R. Putnan1, '50, while in college. The chair, which is of dark, heavy walnut, is beauti- fully carved with the names of the mem- bers of the fraternity in the classes of '49, '50, 51, and '52, the insignia and motto of the fraternity, and other decorative designs. 'I'here are twenty-one names in all carveGI. on the arms and back, each class arranged. separately. The association connected with this chair and the men 'vhose names are so carefully and delicateiy carved upoJJ1 it make it of interest and value not only to the Delta Phi fraternity but to the college as a whole. DEBATING. The same team that the Union debating team defeated gained a decision over Colum- bia on the same side of the same subject, which fact speaks rather well for our boys' chances in case the prospective debate with Columbia materializes. Talking about \clean-slate\ records, the debating team so far, at any rate, is holding its own-one victory out of one start. A tri-league debate is promised for next year. There is a plan afoot by which teams from all the principal colleges (Union, of course, being included) will meet to debate the san1e subject on the same night. It is not kno-vvn what opponents Union will dralN, but she V\rill at any rate have the nuc] eus of two good teams, inasmuch as only one tnember of the regular 'varsity tean1. is to be graduated this year. The debate between the freshmen of Union and Middlebury had to be cancelled when, after all plans had been arranged, the l\1iddlebury n1anagen1ent could make no satisfactory arrangements as to either the tin1e or place of holding the debate. A good tean1 had been selected, and these men wi 11 undoubtedly be benefitted by the experience derived. A freshn1an-sophon1ore debate is assured for early in the Spring term. As is the cus- tom, an individual prize of ten dollars will be offered. The freshmen won the cane

12 THE CONCORDIENSTS. rush; the sophotnores tli.e election day games. This will be a good test of under- class supren1acy. INTER-FRATERNITY SMOKER AT PHI DELTA THETA HOUSE. On the evening of Tuesday, March 2, the Phi Delta Theta fraternity gave a most de- lightful entertainment in the forn1 of an inter-fraternity smoker. The object was two-fold. The first was to afford an op- portunity to discuss the progress of the work by the members of the Inter- Fraternity Con- ference and to give all fraternity men a clearer idea of the activities of that body. The second was to have a \bang-up\ time, and to inspect the fraternity's beautiful new house. In both cases the smoker was en tire- 1 y successful. \Gerry'' \\T ood_, \'Tom\ Dent, and \Jeff\ Delchamps, who were introduced by Carl Byron, gave interesting talks. 1\'he fellows smoked, visited, sang college songs, and helped do justice to quanti ties of sand- wiches and other refreshments. . The Concordiensis wishes to explain the superficial announcement of this affair which appeared in last week's issue by saying that the type is set before Tuesday evening, and that it is possible to add but a very little after this is done. STAY READER WHY GOEST THOU ' - BY SO FAST. Linger here and read of the tale of the Good San1aritan. Some years back a cer- tain man went from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among some nasty car burglars who beat him and stripptd him and left hin1 for dead. A good Samaritan passing by s.aw him lying thus and clapping spurs to his grey ass he galloped to the nearest pay station and 'phoned for the hospital wagon. Unknown to the world at large we have obtained ·\vith tremendous difficulty the in- struments used on that ancient telephone line, as well as various other electrical ap- pliances used at least as far back as ,Ceasar. The ,evolution of the present day perfected electrical appliances from these antiquated articles will be produced at the electrical show April 6-7. Come around and give us a look. LETTERS OF A JAPANESE SCHOOL- BOY. To Editor the Concordy Paper Which is Hot Stuff: Dear Sir : I like to snuggest to you, as dishonorable manipulator of publication, why are not Union College lost in son1e sport games? I encounter large head indiv- idual with green hat and I interrogate, \Why have sad?\ He hit out with sigh, \There were muchly monotony where every- thing are victory. I am tire of seeing sport team beat everybody. We are won all football games on flatiron, and in basket game we have champion. We are lost only to Cornell, -vvhich are played on small court . I am greatly exhausted to see athletics boys ahva ys victory since resigning to become student here.\ I ask you, are it right for sport teams fron1. Union College to be won all time? I an1 very in puzzle. Hoping you are same. Yours very irreproachably, NYGOSKI. CLASSICAL CLUB. The Classical Club n1et 1'uesday evening, March 2. Much important business was transacted, including a discussion of the con- stitution which is being drawn up for the club. After the business was over, the members were entertained by a delightful paper by Prof. Bennett, entitled, \Some Sin1ilies from the Iliad.\ The paper was on a subject of

. In- ap- . 1S , as . div- port all ams I was the bers by rom of THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 conunon interest and was both entertain- ing and instructive. The Latin play hy Dr. Kellogg is in the hands of the ''drill sergeants,\ who will be- o-in work on their company next term. The b play wili be a \ten strike.'' The club picture £or the Garnet was taken Tuesday afternoon. COMMENCEMENT PLANS. The date of the commencement ball has been changed from Wednesday to Mon- day night. This has an advantage over the former date in that most of the comn1.ence- tn,ent crowd will he in the city at that time fresh and ready for festivities, which will make the affair a proportionately greater success than if postponed until later when everyone is tired out and many have gone home. 'f'he dance will, of course, be held in the gymnasium, which will be adorned with the Junior \Prom\ decorations. Frank W. McKee's orchestra will furnish the music and Lucas of Troy the refreshments. An attractive improvement to the com- t11encement festivities will be an \Old Guard'' • division in the costume parade. Members of non-reunion classes will be asked to wear their class costumes and join this group. A buffet luncheon will be served in Silli- man Hall, 'J'uesday noon to save the wives and friends of altunni the trouble of going off the campus that day. The Waldron cup \vill be awarded at the close of the luncheon 1-nd space will be reserved so that the classes may parade as when the luncheon was held in the State armory. This is but a foreword of the events which are scheduled for this year's commencement. More later. STUDENT DINNER TO BE RUN BY PRESS CLUB. J-Iauenstein, '16, is chairman of a commit- tee of the Press Club which has charge of ' the dinner to be given in honor of the suc- cessful basketball season which will come to a close Saturday night. The managers of the E. E. show are to act in conjunction with the Press Club in giving this dinner, as it is intended to boost the E. E. show as well as give an ovation to the team and adver- tise the college. The small gold basket- balls awarded the players of the chatnpion- ship team of the league will be presented on this occasion, and also senior members of the 1914 championship football squad will receive small gold footballs, which are to be purchased by the Press Club with money raised by the student body. With these varied interests in the dinner a large and successful affair is assured. The Press Club poster stan1p is in the hands of the printer and will probably be ready for use within a month . CHEMICAL SOCIETY INITIATES. At the meeting of the Chemical Society Monday, March 8, three new men were ad- mitted to the association's mysteries-Mr. Allen, Mr. Boyce and Mr. Lewis. At the next n1eeting, the first Monday in the Spring term, l\fr. I-Ioughton will read a paper. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. The Cosn1opolitan Club met Monday night and transacted n1uch business. The n1eeting was followed by a talk by Dr. March. A very pleasant social evening was enjoyed. SUB-FRESHMAN DAY. 1~his year the faculty has decided that no secondary schools shall be represented in the track meet which takes place on mov- ing-up day. \Vith this one exception, the events will be the san1e as last year: The usual chapel exercises in the morning, and the inter-class n1eet, and the baseball game in the afternoon.

14 TI-IE CONCORDIENSlS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by 'THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. IN PARTING. __ With this issue of the Concordiensis the senior n1embers of the board wish to bid you a farewell. We are now at the end of our year of editorship and wish to welcome it1 the new board which will resutne duties at the first 1neeting of the Spring term. We are indeed grateful to the student body for its support and interest throughout the year. The Concordiensis is a student publication and we have worked with two ends in view, natnely,-to make the paper interesting, and t() ·make it the n1edium of expression of col- lege opinion. vVhether or not we have been successful is for you to judge. If the Con- cordiensis is what you think it should be 7 do not hesitate to commend the editors- if it does not cotne up to your idea of what it shoutd be, help to bring it to the proper standard by showing the board how it can be bettered. In any case back the incom- ing board heartily and remen1 ber that other colleges judge of Union spirit by the quality of the student publication which they re- ceive in exchange for their papers. 'ro you, the nrw board, we entrust the welfare of the Concordiensis. You will have to determine its policies. Your enthusiasn1 and interest will in a measure determine its success. In parting we 'v-ant to thank you deeply for your co-operation during this year. We have enjoyed working with you. We have every confidence in you and sin- cerely believe you will be able to edit a bet- ter paper than we have Kiven the students. l\1uch of the credit, in fact most of the credit for the Concordiensis work should go to those who contribute most to its columns. In so far as you have helped-in that same 1neasure do we appreciate you. To have enthusiastic associate editors and reporters -to have all working as a unit for the wel- fare of the paper, and hence the college, i.s a big point in the work of the board. But adieu,~we wish you the best of success this coming year ! OUR TEAMS. It is with considerable regret that we will witness the R. P. I.-Union game here Satur- day night, for although it will n1ark the close of the most brilliant basketball season · in the athletic history of the college, it will also conclude the basketball career of four

be 7 oper can re- the e its you this you. . S111- bet- to wei- . e, 1S But this will thc · will four T'HE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 n1en1bers of our cham. pionship team-Cap- tain Houghton and your cohorts, we are proud of you·! Howev·er that is a subject -vvhich will be treated · in the Basketball teams now have the true \fight spirit,\ the clean sportsn1anlike spirit that counts and stin1ulates wholesorne athletes. Let us keep that spirit going and let us put our best Number of the Concordiensis next tern1. efforts into the coming games, whether we Suffice it that you have made an enviable \Vin or lose. record, a record which it will be difficult to Later in the month the Press Club is to equal. On Monday noon Coach Dawson n1ade the first call for baseball candidates and outlined the plans for prelil-ninary in- door practice. Within three days the bas- ketball season will be history, giorious his- tory, and all attention wiH be focused on baseball. Last fall we followed a champion- ship football eleven through a hard schedule, and now at the close of basketball and at the dawn of the baseball season what shall 've predict? Two championship .Union tean1s this year have set the example. \\tVhether or not the baseball team will at- tain similar success, depends most of all on us, the student body. We must stand back of the nine with the same spirit thta char- acterized our football and basketball sea- sons. V\le must help Coach Dawson and Captain Woods in every possible way and the first thing in this line is to see that every student with baseball ability reports for work with the squad. Indoor battery practice has already begun and other work \vill be given the candidates, starting Mon- day. Practically all of last year's squad are in college and 'v\ill form an excellent founda- tion for a winning team. In addition there are many freshm.en who have cotne to Union \Vith good baseball records behind them. 'Things look unusually promising for a third record tean1 and it is up to the students to lend . their heartiest co-operation. Union hold a student dinner in honor of our two championship teams. At that time the championship awards will be made and a rousing good ti1ne will help create addi- tional interest in the work of the track and baseball tea1ns. Let us start them off on their season's work with the best of spirit and promise. Let us show them we are back of then1 from the start. This dinner will serve a double purpose, to do honor to the work of the football and basketball squads and to usher in the Spring practice and enthusiasm for baseball and track. The function is worthy of your support. \PREXY'S\ DATES. March 14-As previously announced Prexy will preach at Williams College, and in the evening he wiU speak at the Williams Y. M. C. A ... March 23-He will give an address to the public school teachers of Rome, N. Y. J\t1arch 24-Mr. Richmond will speak to the lVIen's League of the Dutch Reformed Church of Herkin1er, and in the afternoon he will speak to the high school pupils of that place. During April the president will speak at the Union Alun1ni dinners in the following cities on the indicated dates : A.pril 7-Brooklyn. April 8-Philadelphia. April 10-Washington, D. C. April 13-Pittsburgh. April 14-Buffalo. And, also, to the Ministerial Association of this city on Aprill9, at 10:30 a. m. ' ' ,,. I '' ,· i: 'I ., ,. ! l: '• :

I I I I I I I l I I I l . I 16 'T-HE CONCORDIENSIS. A TERRIBLE TALE. 0 list to this tale, this terrible tale, this tale so sad and true, This mournful tale, this dolorous tale, the tale of the Tamboroo. · The Tamboroo tried to find him a bride for his heart was melting away So he softly sang till the wild .wood rang to the tune of his amorous lay: \It's j oily S\veet ''To tickle my feet \i\nd spend my days like a winner. \To feel the breeze ''In the strawberry trees \Where the elephant climbs for his dinner.\ So he sang his tune to the Purple Moon In the vale of the Limbergaster, Till a warning croak from the tree-tops broke, That told of a near disaster Then he stilled his note and he cleared his throat While his noble heart beat faster. Then out of the trees, the wild wood trees, the trees of the pink Gumdoozum A Wing-Wang fell like a twelve-pound shot full fair on his heaving bosom. Now the Wing-Wang shrieked with her tulip mouth and lips like a rosy petal A dainty, delicate feminine cry like the grind of rusty n1etal. Then the Tamboroo caught her and gently besought her to silence her sad lamenta- tion. And her salt tears to sop with a cedar-oil mop \Vhile she smelt of a purple carnation. ''You are mine, you are mine/' the Tam- boroo cried And his heart all on fire actually burned him. \I am yours, I am yours and I'll be your b 'd \ sweet r1 e. The Wing-Wang with blushes returned him. But it happened Alack from a tall tamarack A \i\Tubble-dub poised on his pinions And he shouted and sang to the dainty Wing-Wang, To fly to his airy dominions. Then she left her first love and she flew up above As Wing- \Vang most generally do i\nd she broke the kind heart, the ultra-re- fined heart The heart of the poor Tamboroo. Now the Tamboroo tried to commit suicide~ 'Tis said that he died of brain fever, For he drank letnonade as he madly essayed To forget his fair fickie deceiver. DON'T FORGET The Electrical Show, April6-7. JUST A LITTLE PATIENCE. The publication board likes the present Concordy board so well that they have re- fused so far to meet and elect a new one. However, it is expected that they will get together before exam. week and elect the new staff. Besides this little piece of busi- ness, the Concordy has a constitution which was recently drawn up by a committee head- ed by Nat. Finch a~d they are anxious to know if this is going to be accepted by the board. All together fellows-help us pull. NOYES SAYS NOT. At a late hour today, Noyes, '17, request- ed that the public be notified to the effect that he denies the statement which appeared in the Lost Number of the Concordiensis to the effect that he had announced his en- gagement. Well, we got the statement from what we considered good authority, but Noyes ought to know.

a rack flew icicle~ , re- one. get the busi- to d by us uest- . ensts en- 'THE CONCORDIENSlS. 17 THIS ALSO ACCOUNTS FOR ROSEY CHEEKED FRESHMEN IN SPRINGTIME. \The autumn leaves,\ says the sentimen- talist, \blush to think how green they've been. Marcus F.-My typewriter needs som:e new ribbons. Intelligent Clerk-Very well, sir; blonde or brunette, sir ?-Gargoyle. EXCHANGE WIT. \What makes Harry Lauder so jolly?\ \I suppose it's the Scotch in him.\- Cayote. WHA' D'YAH MEAN LOVE? They say a man can't live on love, but he can if his love has enough money.- Widow. She-'·'Isn' t it strange that the length of a n1an' s arm is equal to the circun~ference of a girPs waist.\ He--\I-(et's get a string and see.\-J ester. Sweet ~\'oung Thing-Bob, dear, I've nev- er kissed a boy before. Robert-Dearest, neither have I.-Cayote. \\\ 7 hat are they going to call their baby?'' \I don't knovv. ;-fhey nani·ed it Reginald.\ -Gargoyle. RUSHIN' WAR .NEWS. I - h J 1 \G . . . t ,aca . ourna- ·. - ermans 1n1t1ate gen- eral advance.'' It's so long since rushing season, we didn't even know he was pledged.-\tVidow. She-I '11 never marry a drunkard. l{e-N ot if he happens to sober up be- fore the ceremony.-Cayote. EXAMINATION SCHEDULE. Monday, March 15. 9:00 A. M.- History of Philosophy. Differential Equations. Junior Latin. Sophomore Analytics. Biology (Medic). Fresh. Acad. English. Electrical Machinery. Junior B. E. Mechanics. Soph. B. E. Mechanics. Fresh. B. E. Elem. Frech. Fresh. B. E. Int. French. 2:00P.M.- Senior Latin. Soph. B. S. Calculus. English 4. E. E. 25. Soph. A. B.; Ph. B., Biology. Tuesday, March 16. 9 :00 A. :rvi.- Sociology. English 7. Junior Argumentation. Soph. Greek. Soph. History. Hygiene. Senior B. E. Design. Soph. B. E. Ger1nan . Mensuration. M. E. 5. 2:00 P. M.- Senior Greek A. . ..

18 THE CON·CORDIENSIS. 1\n1erican History. Senior French. Junior Greek A. Junior G·erman. Physics (Medic). Fresh. Latin. Soph. B. E. English. E. E. 35. Wednesday, March 17. 9 :00 ~A... M.- Senior Greek B. Qualitative .A.nalysis. Organic Chemistry. Laboratory Physics. Junior Greek B. Spanish. Soph. I~atin. Soph. B. S. Biology. Fresh. lVIathen1atics (B. S.; B. E.) Building Construction. Junior B. E. IIydraulics. Soph. B. E. Calculus. E. E. 22. E. E. 5. 2:00P.M.-· Senior Econo1nics. Thursday, March 18. 9:00 A. M. A~dvanced Ethics. English 9. Junior European I-Iistory Fresh. Acad. Int. Gern1an. Fresh. Acad. Int. French. Fresh. Greek. L.east Spuares. Finance. · Thermodynamics. Soph. B. E. Physics. Dra\ving . M. E. 2 2:00 P. M. Quantitative Analysis. Soph. Acad. English. Friday, March 19. 9 :00 .LA,.. M . Com para ti ve Politics. Math. Physics. Advanced Augumentation. Logic. ·General Chemistry. Soph. Acad. Elem. German. Soph. Acad. Elem. French. Fresh. Mathen1atics (A. B.; Ph.B.) \Vater Supply. Junior Law. Kine1natics. Descriptive Geometry. Fresh. B. E. English. E. E. 2. 2:00 P. M. Senior Gern1an. Mineralogy. Junior French. Saturday, March 20. 9:00 A. M. History of Education. Junior Economics. Senior Law. Stereatomy. Soph. B. E. Chemistry. Fresh. B. E. Elem. German. Fresh. B. E. Int. German. EXCHANGES. 1~he Yale baseball schedule includes thir- ty-t,vo games. A nevv $60,000 two story building has been begun for the Harvard Cri1nson. \COLGATE IN LINE FOR PENNANT.\ -Colgate Madisonensis. Because of the failure of the undergrad- uates to support it, the Brunonian, the monthly literary magazine at Brown, faces the probability of having to suspend pub- 1ication. T last radi to 1 \Vhi1 tvve~ trus stud ject~ spec how sam also inte1 etc. at B tern T1 ing 1 WF \N orga fight ftnal] after is to of fc the VI cliffe Ot gratt othe1 thesE burec: are \i as sc:

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 The rapid gro-vvth o£ Hobart within the last fe~' years has necessitated some very radical changes. President Powell wishes to inaugurate the so-c.alled Oxford plan, \vhich provides for closer co-operation be- tvveen the students, the faculty and the trustees, and a better system of studies. All students vvill take practically the same sub- jects for two years after which they will specialize in separate colleges, which are all, however, under the general direction of the same president and trustees. This plan will also develop within the whole corporation intercollegiate rivalry in athletics, debating, etc. The addition of a woman's department at I-Iobart is the first application of this sys- tem vvhich has been undertaken as yet. \Fiat Lux,\ of Alfred University has adopted a constitution and set of by-laws. The Press Club's athletic dinner is go- ing to be great. Support it. WHY WORRY ABOUT THE FEDS? \iVellesley girls \should worry\ whether organized baseball wins or loses in its big fight against the Federals, for baseball has ftnally been recognized as an outdoor sport, after a three years' fight. The present plan is to forn1 a league when Spring starts in, of four class teams, and it is possible that the winning team may meet a nine from Rad- cliffe. PRESS CLUB. Our Press Club finds occasion to con- gratulate itself after receiving letters fro1n other colleges relative to enquiries sent to these institutions concerning their publicity bureaux. rrhe Press Club finds that there are very few such organizations which are as satisfactory as ours and that only a sn1all per cent of these are conducted along the purely voi untary system which we have. ~1r. Edwin G. Conde of the class of '9:{ talked infor1naHy to the Club last night, dis- ·cussing their n1ethods and giving them so1ne excellent advice concerning publicity in general. YOU BET. The date for the Press Club athletic din- ner is March 30. \Vho wiH be there? Everybody of importance connected with Union College who can possibly make it. Yes and then so1ne. Sood the gedtle sprig with cobe, We feel it id our heads; It chadges all our gloob to joy, Add all our n~s to eds. COMMON SENSE VS. MILITARISM. Princeton seems to have passed the high- tide mark of the n1ilitaristic wave which has crept across the country and is even novv receding. The report of the Faculty Com- lni ttee on Military 'Training calls for a \ course of historical lectures fron1 the point of vie-vv of the ar1ny man, whicl1 no doubt will be very interesting-, sotne tactical ex- cursions., and practice in rifle shooting. The whole scheme is put on a voluntary basis. The committee did vvisely to recotnmend that the military work be voluntary; if ~t were compulsory it vvould soon lose any gla1nor which 1nay surround this business of preparation for war. It remains to be seen how n1.any men wi 11 volunteer for the work, like\vise how long their numbers will remain unditninished. It is considerably to be doubted whether during the college year the undergraduates will j1;1mp at the chance to devote a part of his ti1ne to build- ing 1nilitary roads or digging trenches, even of a strategical sort.

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. l t is not particularly on account of its influence on Princeton that the Princeton- ian condemns the plan. But it is unden- iably a pity to have a part, even so small a part as is proposed, in spreading the doc- trine of preparedness for war among the young men ·of the country. Never have argu- . ments that preparedness is an insurance against war been on the face of things so absurd. We have just finished watching the militaristic nations of Europe in process of going to war, each protesting that it was forced into it. For those who want an in- -crease in our ar1ny we offer the solution of sin1ply V\raiting, as with each day of the European conflict our relative military strength rises. 'rhe statesmen of England have said that the present catastrophe n1ust be the last, that we shall see an overthrow of the whole n1ili tary system and a drastic reduction in armaments. With this fresh in our ears shall we stuff our pockets with plans for new ar1nies and new battleships, t·osters of a dozen security leagues and ac- counts of wide-spread college militaristic catnpaigns, and then present ourselves to the European belligerents as n1ediator, with the proposal that a universal agreement be made by which international affairs shall have some less worn-out and barbaric deux ex 1nachina than force.-The Princetonian. \Caesar loved the Irish.\ uwhy?\ \When he came to the Rhine he proposed to Bridget.\-Ex. The night was dark and stormy, And the sun was shining bright! He held his lips shut tightly, And yelled with all his might '\'Kill me, villi an, kill me! But spare my precious life!\ And the villain stabbed him with a gun And shot him vvith a knife! Then down the path came a maiden fair, Her form was bent with age ; She recognized the hero there And cried aloud? ''Who is he?\ Then lifting up his lifeless form She cried, \Y e gods, 'tis Lizzy! ! !\ -Ex. KEEP OFF T.HE GRASS. Communication. During the Spring months we find sev- eral little signs about the campus bearing S'long. S'long. the above notice. Students usually clai n1 the special privilege of disregarding the warning and find more pleasure in walking on the soft sod than on the hard cinder paths. The past winter has been an ex- tremely wet one and we find our sod about the campus in a rather shaky condition just at present. Hence it seems advisable that we should follow the straight and narro\v cinder paths this spring in order that the catnpus grass may not be ruined. This will not greatly inconvenience any of us and vvill certainly be a great boon to the appear- ance of the lawn when the new spring grass begins to show signs of life. Take up the slogan fellows-\Keep off the grass.\ THISISCONSOLATION. Y ergonnagetmornonecondi tion? Dunnomayheacouple. Imgonnafl unkdutch. Izzahso? Sursyerborn! W ellimsorryferyerolernan. Thanksiamtoo. ( s ~ q b g h a \

If you want .anything /rom QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Teleplsone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as its relation to ql:lality. $3.00would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful high price to pay for a \movie.\ Steefel prices now are 25% off - the qualities are of the \opera\ type-high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our prices we say good-bye to profits-the farewell isn't sad, however, because it sends out our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. Spring Display of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothing Over lOc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falls WATERS, Custom Tailor 15·6 BARR:ETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J ' • ' ' '\. ' :' .·:. ·: ~ f -,~.·~' •• ' ' • \ ' : '. ' ~ ·: STYLISH PUMPS For Dress or Street wear,. in dull and patent leather-t~ngo ~Jtoles • .all rubber or disc rubber insets -fine for dancing or general wear. $3.50 to $5 PATTON & HALL 245 State Street, Sehenectad7. I

More College News IN TH:E Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 FOR YOUR DEN · Beautiful College Pennants Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each '1 in. x 21 in. 4-PENNANTS. SIZE 12x30--4 Any Leading Cclleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 ce.nts and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. N. K. McNEILL N~EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Ra! Ra1 Ra! juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W . .fl. Hughes~ Pyramid CJuh, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Jultus 1£gtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED THE · BARBER ' THE BARBE'R SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty;_Reasonable Prices, Comfortable ] t ] ( c; ... -

Bellinger Paint Co. ~~~ ~ ~· Walk:.iOver .slaoes will t a:k e t:l!! •- you anywhere and· ;back. PAINTS~ ··OILS LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Deal:ers in all kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre St. Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R . ... ZI.ta's Orch. estr.· a furnished music at Union College 1<)()5 'o6, 'o7, .,o8, 'og, . ., 10, ·1 I, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World ~~~·tt!'£~~~!~~e~ 48 ~~e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton. St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N'. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N. M·. READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECfALTY 0. D. Evelei2h OPTOMETRIST ~26 State Street Eyes Tested and (}huases FittE><l THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography uwatch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH,S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

A National Custom '•Bull\ Durham is more than a national.form of en- joyment-it is an ex!lression of American character. The millions of ''Bull\ Durham smokers are self- reliant, energetic. Americans who make the United States the most progressive nation in the world. These men make their own opportunities, make their own success-and they make their own cigarettes, to th~1r own liking, from ripe, mellow r-~NUIN£ ··BuLL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO It is smart, fashionable, correct, upon all occasions, to \roll your own'' cigarettes with \Bull\ Durham tobacco- and shows an experienced smoke-taste. The smooth,mellow flavor and rich fragrance of fresh- rolled \Bull\ Durham ciga- rettes afford healthful enjoy- ment and lasting satisfaction to more millions of men than all other high-grade smoking tobaccos combined. FREE An ll.Iustrated Booklet, · showmg correct ~~ way to \RollY out ...:;....~~~&' Own'' Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in United States on postal request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Dur- ham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. • •, ' • ·~ •' I f ' !')' • • ' • I '•: • \\ i i .Aalc For FREE paeka,e of • •paper•'' 111i I Ia eacla 6c aack. ~ iii!'\= ..... -

OF COU~S:E there is always a call for Dollars. It's true 'however that some of these ~sUs are most necessary. Save .for the necessa,ry ones In the The Sche:nectady Savings B·ank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison American Plan All Outside Rooms NOYES His Complete Works Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street ·Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. c'On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store PTHE MOHICAN .MARKET. · The Big Store Arou.nd the Corn.er 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R .. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street; New York . Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clolhing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and ,Overcoats cut to your measure .$20 .upwarrl Full · Dress Acceessories JUST WRIGHT SHOES Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters Red~uctions on Winter Weight Shoes worth your while. The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co. ' 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORIN·G CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR ·Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything· for the Table at the lowest Cash Prices. J QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street , H St T T~ 42 30

Stoll's Hofbrauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N .. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices$ MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938 .. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Sch artz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to .. Measure Clothing at less than \Ready .. Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, lN edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17 * Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop\ Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y .. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. · Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co a Phone 4489. IN A HURRY HE IT RAINS OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk & Leather Goods Store Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee j~.\.WA 'Y,t 177 Jay Street -cU\XQ0- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. \?t:'L 1 -A'e;\.~ Albany, N. Y. REPAfiRING SPALDING·s for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year! A G S ldl • & B 126-128 Nassau Street · • pa ng !OS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue Brooks Brothers, Clothiers Broadway, cor .. 22nd St., New York Boston Branch 149 Tremont Nrnvport Branch 220 Bellevue Street Avenue MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office••

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylet, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailora. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us • ttme. 240·244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY ~chenectady ~ Art Press ....

VOL.38. N0.19. MARCH 31,1915. PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENT$ OF UNION COLLEGE --~------------------------~--------~-----

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D ... Chancellor ·UNJON COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceurses leading to the degree ol A.. B .. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to· the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Q()u:ra~e leading to the degree o~ Ph. B. LATIN -SciEN\l'U'IC CouRsE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional war k in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. S. Scr~NTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree o:f B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. S.ANI\l'ARY ENGINEERING CouRSE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. Eu~CTRICA~ ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course is in tended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 6. CourMes lea.tlng to graduate degree•. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L •. V. Herrington Groceries, 'f obacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CouRs~t ~EADING To D~tGl~~ o1 M. S. E. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING To DltGRElt oF Pa:. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis .. sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa .. tion sent on application to: W1~~1s G. TucKU:It, M. D., Registrar, AlbanyD N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, J. NEWTON FI!RO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the stat<e capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WA#fSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St.~ Albany, N. Y. ALFR~D B. HuESTED, Secretary, •' Everything for the College Man except Exam•\ GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472 .. W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & ,Urner ,Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 'Known wberever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupi1s received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri· vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ia:~:;;:; Company EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

Buy Your Easter Clothes at Babbitt's Where America's foremost makes are being shown. Babbitt Clothes are the choice of the best dressers in this tri-,c:ity territory because they represent the utmost value at any stated price. Our Rogers-Peet and \Frankel Fifteen\ suits and overcoats are in greater favor than ever before. Come in and let us show you these new creations and then you will understand why we are so enthusiastic about them. BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY @)a.c:.r. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not . living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o11e did in by-:gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposite Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawint Inka I Eternal Writin~ Ink En~roaain~ Ink I Taurine Mucilage ~ Photo Mounter Paste Drawin~ Board Paste Liquid Paste I L Office Paste Veatetable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and · withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDlES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, i' I'

I' Harry Lauder World -famoua Scotch ·Comediam, aay:s: ••.Tuxedo lor mildness, parity and Fragrance, THE ··tobacco for me. With my pipe filled with good old TUXEDO, all my troubles. go up in amcke. In all my world-wide trav• elB I've yet to find its equal as a •low-burning, cool- tasting, sweet• ,flavored tobacco. TUXEDOsatia• :fiea me completely. u d~~ Tuxedo Keeps the World in Good Humor Here is the man whose life work is to make millions of people happy. J,n pursuing his call, he travels the wide world over. He is a great lover of his pipe, and in all sorts of comers of the earth he has tried all sorts of tobaccos. What is his unqualified statement in regard to T uxeclo) Read it again : ul, ve yet to find its equal.'' 'This is the frank and candid opinion of thousands and thousands of experi- enced, judicious smokers. T ux:edo is absolutely the best all-around tobacco that modern tobacco science can malce. Tlze Perfect Tobacco /or Pipe and Cigarette Uncorking a tin of Tuxedo is like lifting· the lid on con- centrated sunshine. And then, when you lire up! Well I The hrst puff's a revelation, the second's a revolution, the third just gets you happy-like! Then you're off-just as sure as you·n see the green grass and hear the birds sing next Spring. The exclusive '\Tuxedo Process\ brings out the unsur- passed mildness, delicate fragrance and mellow flavor of the .Burley leaf in a way that has never been successfully imitated. At the same tin1e it refines the tobacco until every trace of :harshness and \bite'· disappears. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWI-IERI: (onvenient, glassine • wrapped, Sc 'Famous green tin, ~vid1 gold J (} moisture-proof pollch • • • • letterinr, curTed to fit pocket ( ln Tin Humidors, 40c and80c lnGlassHumidor:;,50cand90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY . ' I

£STA8Lt$HED 18r8 tCW VOlt~\. Our Representative, Mr. Gorman, · will be at the Edison Hotel on· SATURDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1915 with samples of ready made garments, Furnishings, Hats .and Shoes · Boston Branch .~.V 6wport Branch 220 Bellevue Avenue 149 Tremont :Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Cotrell and Leonard ALBANY, N. Y. Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods ro the American Colleges and U niveraitiea from the Atlantic to tl1e Pacific. Clas1 contract• a specialty The STUDENTS Are invited to open .a check account with us. Accounts of ·Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House . and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art &tnrr No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. , r • > 1 l IJ · \ I I W [ /I>.'~~ ' • ,\'1P/V~ ~ Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street; Schenectady, N. Y.

:Clothing Furnishings Hats' We're ready ·whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' ljl Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores KEELER'S --~EUROPEAN---­ HOTEL and Cabaret at.9 P.M. : Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladles' Restaurant Attached. Special New . Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard .. Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. CANDIES · Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. ;Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES : Comparison is the , Lever That Turns i. Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Co.mparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship .and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager .. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c 1-fadies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc 11en's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES -- _________ -------- ------ -------·----- __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 UllO WHITE, 229. State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 i907 1913 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle•e R~pret~eontative 1908 1914 1915 ''RADNOR'' THE ,NEW ARROW COLLAR 2 for 25 Cents. Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John.'s Church. 'Phone 298-W. '12! Eastern Ave. = ' = ' 1< s e p k y a: t( tl d~ tc le c fe oi tc w th sc Cc PJ he; to co or a, th

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 MARCH 31, 1915 NO.l9 A REVIEW .OF THE SEAS,ON. Williams Coach Picks Three Union Players for All-Star Northeastern League Team. .Union's greatest basketball season, fol- lowing directly upon her greatest football season, has just come to a close. The vet- eran team has played itself into the cham- pionship of the Northeastern College Bas- ketball League for the second successive year. This year the team was undefeate·d in any league game. Twelve victories in suc- cession mark the season's results, and the team has won fame and recognition among the best basketball teams in the east by its .defeat of Princeton at a time when Prince- ton was tied with Yale for leadership in the league race over teams such as Cornell, Columbia, Pennsylvania, and Dartmouth. The only defeat of the season-one de- feat in fourteen games-was at the hands of Cornell early in January, by a score of 24 to 18. The team that defeated Union \\vas without doubt the best team in the East at the time on its own court. Later in the sea- son two players were forced to quit the Cornell tean1, and both West Point and Princeton beat the new team. As Union has defeated both West Point and Prince- ton there is little reason to doubt that she could have beaten Cornell either in Ithaca or here. Cornell at her best would have had a very hard job on her hands to beat Union this year at Schenectady. The much heralded Springfield game was an easy victory for Union. R. P. I. fell twice before the Garnet, both times by deci- sive scores. The hardest opponent to beat in the Northeastern League was Colgate, who put up a fast well-played game on the Schenectady court late in January. The Colgate game later in the year at Hamil- ton was an easier victory for the Garnet than had been expected. All through the season the four veterans- Captain Erny Houghton, Teedy Woods, Dave and Jake Beaver-aided by Joe Haub- ner and Jimmy Mudge played the greatest basketball of their careers, and made their last season the culmination and highest point of their basketball life here. This basketball life of the veteran quartette by the way, has lasted almost four years. For the ability to get up and to maintain a fast clip throughout a game, for superhun1anly efficient team-work that semed throughout the season to have developed almost into intuition, for a never-say-die spirit, and for sheer natural basketball ability, this team has been a paragon. Occasional bickerings have apparently cemented the team together on the floor, a tendency to \ride\ kept every man on his metal and playing the game o£ his life. vVe have sung the praises of individual n1en so often in these colun1ns that it seems needless repetition to hark back to Captain i' ,; : .. f .. :

10 TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. Ho~ghton's wonder:ful scoring ability, his foul shooting, and his clever guarding. We are all familiar with Dave Beaver's speed and .cleverness on the floo·r, aided and abet- ted in so n1any larcenies of baskets by Brother Jake, who, too, has ·Come in for his due .share of praise. Teedy vVoods used to shoot the baskets, too, once in a while. Fred Daly, coach of the Williams CoBeg\e team, in the New York Tribune for Sun- day, March 21st, picked three men from the Union tearn for his all-star Northeastern League five. They were Houghton, guard; Woods, centre.; and Dave Beaver, forward. He summarizes the situation in the league thus: '•.Aggressiveness, speed, accuracy in shootin:g, and, most characteristic of · all, ability to keep up a steady and hard pace throughout each game, were responsible for Union's remarkable showing in again com- ing out victor of the Northeastern Inter- collegiate Basketball League. She never showed ,signs of fatigue artd it seems to m,e that this fact, combined with an exper- ienced combination of players, carved for her the title of champion. * * * My choice for guards, however, is Houghton of Union, and Hay of Williams. The former has won an unquestionable place through his close guarding and accuracy in shooting, both from the floor and from the foul line. Few if any faults are to be found in his play- ing. * * * * \For centre I pick Woods, of Union, al- though Johnson, of Colgate, and Wilkin- son, of Wesleyan, have n1any admirable qualities ~s players. Woods, however, see1ned to cover more floor space than h~s opponents, and though he did not score so often as might be expected, he was never- theless responsible for many baskets through his accurate shooting and general team- play. * * * In the selection of forwards my choice goes to Eaton of Wesleyan, and D. Beaver of Union. I would shift the latter from guard to forward, where I have seen him play equally as well as at his regular position. He has made it possible for his team to come out a victor on more than one occasion. For this reason and for his abiiity to fill in at either guard or forward I give him a place on a repre.sentati ve team.''' A SECOND VICTORY FROM R. P. 1. Garnet Finished Season With a Top .. . heavy Score Over the Trojans. Union won the last basketball game of the season fron1 R. P. I. Saturday night, March 13th, by a score of 35 to 16. A large crowd completely filled the gym to see the Big Five play its last game, and son1e 200 or more R. P. I. men came over fron1 Troy to cheer on their team. The game itself was not interesting. After the first five minutes of play there was no doubt as to who would win. In the first five minutes of play Woods broke away from his man and scored Union's first basket. Erny Houghton scored two n1ore points on fouls. At this point R. P. I. tied the score but at no time afterwards \'\vas on even terms with the Garnet. Bas- kets in quick succession by the Beavers boosted the score and Houghton added a basket. At the end of the first half the score stood: Union 18, R. P. I. 7. Joe Haubner had played a good game in the first half, but in the second half Jin1my Mudge took his place. Neither scored. The second half was a repetition of the first. R. P. I., which had begun the game with substitutes put its whole regular team in but could gain no advantage. By the strangest freak of fortune Teedy Woods, usually the mildest of players, was ruled off the floor in the second half for four personal fouls. An R P. I. man, Par- rott, had run into a sin1.ilar fate a few n1on1ents after the game started. s 0 0 t] c a f( H :M J. \~ G H D Jc H, w 0' Cc M, M, G<: Pa M; Fo Re Sp 'ril 1 be<: wh En \ a:

.. £ r ' e S s 0 n y THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 Captain Houghton, 'and the Beavers, each scored four field goals while Erny had an off night on the .foul line, counting only 7 out of 22 baskets. As .may be judged from the number of fo:uls, the game was not the cleanest one on record, but it was a victory, and finished the season in a blaze of glory for the Garnet £,ve. Summary: UNION. F.B. F.T. Haubner, If. ------- 0 0 Mudge, If. --------- 0 0 J. Beaver, rf. __ ,____ 4 0 \Voods, c. -----·---- 1 0 Galbraith, c. ------- 1 0 Houghton, lg. ------ 4 7 D. Beaver, rg. -·---- 4 0 Totals ---------- 14 7 RENSSEI~AER. F.B. F.T. Jcke, If. -------·- ___ 0 0 Howard, rf. ----- ___ 1 0 Woolsey, rf. ------- 1 5 O'I-Iara, If. -------- 0 0 Collins, c. -----·---- 0 3 McManus, c. -------- 1 0 McDonald, lg. ----- 0 0 Gallagher, lg. ______ 0 0 Parrott, rg. -----·-- 1 0 Mayer, rg. --------- 0 0 T.P. 0 0 8 2 2 15 8 35 T.P. 0 2 7 0 0 0 2 0 Totals -----· ____ 4 8 16 Score at half time-Union, 18; R. P. I., 7. Fouls committed-Union, 11; R. P. I., 22. Referee and umpiie, alternating-Reed of Springfield, and Deering of Manhattan. 'rime of halves-Twenty n1inutes. CAPTAIN HOUGHTON. Without a doubt Captain Houghton has been one of the best guards in basketball which has ever represented Union College. Erny has received the ho11or ·of being called \ . a runn1ng guard of the highest type,\ and a man who \would strengthen any team.\ Although too light to play on the Schenec- ta-dy High School team, when he was pre- paring for college, he has succeeded in show- ing himself of unusual ability during his collegiate career. His style has been ''to watch for his opportunity, dart from his tnan, sprint for the basket\ and make good. \Vhile in college he has played in forty-six games and scored five hundred and seven points, a record seldom ,equalled by any guard on a collegiate team. His keen eye in shooting fouls has been the envy of many opponents. It is interesting to note that Erny has played in his senior year in four- teen games, which is twice the number played in his freshman year. Erny has also shown his athletic ability on the baseball diamond, where he has held down first base with great credit, and also on the football gridiron, last fall, when he captained the second team which was re- sponsible in part for the winning 'varsity. Erny is one of the three three-letter tnen in college . \!Vith the loss of Captain Houghton this year, the team next year will realize more and more the part which he has played in the game. Everyone knows that he has been \truly a remarkable man\ on the basketball floor. * * * DAVE BEAVER. \\rhen Dave attended Schenectady High School he got into four or five basketball games but was by no means considered a regular. He went out for basketball in his freshman year at Union; he put up a beauti- ful game and V\ras elected captain for the next season in spite of the fact that he was only a sophomore. T'he tea1n that season \Vas of chalnpion- ship calibre but Union was not in any of the basketball leagues so there was no real chan1pionship for this good team to pull do-vvn. During the season of 1913 only one

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS gan1e \ras ]ost out of a schedule of twelve. ·That game was lost to Rochester here on !()ur own floor but later the team beat Roch- ester on their own floor. Dave's junior year his brother Jake was ~aptain and the Union. team won the North- •.eastern CoUegiate League championship ~fter tying ''rith Wesleyan for first place. Dave stood second on the list during that !Sea-son for the number of points scored. 'This year Dave has played his usual -consistent game and his name stands first tin the list of field goal shots. He shot £onty..,one field goals and one foul goal dur- ing the season, making a total of eighty- three points scored. Dave was one of the ·foundation st()nes on which was built the most remarkable team that has ever repre- ·sented Union on the basketball court. Dave has not centered all his interests in basketball. For two years he held down the position of 'varsity quarterback and would probably have played in the same ,position his senior year if it had not been for an operation just before the season open- ~d. He has also made a name for himself iin baseball as an excellent catcher, and a good all-around player. Dave is not like the majority of good :athletes when it comes to his studies, for he is just as much of a shark in the class room as on the basketball court, football gridiron, or baseball diamond. * * * JAKE BEAVER. When Jake entered college he had not had as much basketball experience as his brother Dave.. Nevertheless he stepped into the position of forward his freshman year and played that position for four y~ars. He and his brother have won posi1io;:hs on a team which has probably never been equal- ed in the history of basketball. During his sophomore year Jake plafe:d under his brother's leadership and then in his junior year they shifted and Jake be- carne captain. Jake captained the tean1: whi,ch won the first championship of the Northeastern Collegiate League for Union CoUege. .Unwilling to see the beautiful Wright and Ditson trophy leave our pos- session Jake kept up his sterling game of basketball under Captain Houghton's lead- ership and has certainly done his share in V\rinning the championship for a second time. Jake's athletic career in Union College has not been confined to basketball alone. 1-Ie worked hard on the football field for three years as quarterback for the scrubs. Then, when the emergency demanded, he stepped into his brother's place and held it down like a veteran. It was Jake's head- work and Jake's passing that helped the football team to get away with a clean slate this last season. When it comes to base- ball nothing gets past him out in that left field garden. He also has one of the best little \wings\ ever. This was proved in the R. P. I. game last year, when Jake saved the day by a beautiful throw in from left field. Dave and Jake have made records while in Union College which, as Johnny Ben- nett would say, could be lived up to and not do'\vn to. * * * TEEDY WOODS. \He comes up smiling\-which phrase will tell us most of Teedy Woods' college life, and characterizes him in all his endeav- ors, whether playing center, third base, or solving some problems in thermodynamics. Teed used to dabble in athletics to some extent in the A.lbion High School; ·and he was somevvhat of an imaginary unit his first year here, though he was captain of the freshman basketball team. It was in his sophon1ore year that Teedy started on his climb to fame. When we played ·colgate at Hamilton, N. Y., one of the regular basket~ ball n1en was ill, and Teedy was sent in to fill his place. By a happy cotnbination of £ 1 \ f 't y t y b h b . J1 J p tl a a h 1\ a t] p 0 p

ful os- of . ln ne. for bs. he it se- eft est or me he his his to of THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 circumstances Woody scored about half the field baskets in the game, and it was the first time we had ·ever defeated Colgate on their court. Here was Teedy's start. In every game this season he has played fast, hard basketball, but he showed his best work in the Colgate game. Teedy, \vith his twenty-eight baskets, has scored fifty-six of the total number of points made by this championship team. Woody has also more than made 'good in baseball and is a musician and tennis play- er of no small note, having been in the Man- dolin Club two years and having played on the Tennis Team in his sophomore year. As captain we hope to see hin1 lead the base- ball team through a successful season. * * * JOE HAUBNER. Joe is the only underclassman of this year's championship 'varsity who played. on the successful quintet o£ last year. Next year he \V\ 7 ill be the only real veteran on the team. From the cradle Joe has handled a basket- ball. In this branch of sport Joe starred his way through Sche.nectady High School, being elected captain of the team in his . . Jtllllor year. Coming to Union with this good record Joe made good on the Garnet five. His playing has been fast and clever throughout the season. Joe is not very large and we admire his pluck and skill when matched against a heavier opponent. * * * JIMMY MUDGE. Probably no man on the team this year has been watched more closely than Jimmy l\1udge, the only freshman among the regul- ars. He ca1ne with a big reputation from the Schenectady High School, where he played three seasons, holding the captaincy of their quintet his senior year. He has proved as good as his reputation. His floor work is excellent, his passing· accurate, and his shooting creditable. Dur- ing the season he played seven entire games, and parts of four more. The fact that he played the whole Princeton game, when we were called upon for our biggest efforts, sho,vs his ability. He has scored eighteen points. With three years more to develop, Mudge bids fair to stand well up among Union's great basketball players. * * * TOM KEATING. When the season is over and done and we are congratulating ourselves on a champion- ship team, there is danger that we shall be so blinded by the spectacular achievements o£ the team men that we shall forget to give due credit to \the man behind the gun.\ ,.rhis 1nan is Tom Keating, the manager of the basketball team. On him devolves the responsibility and the honor of planning the campaign of the team in such a vv:ay that it will be a series of battles won. The final - . test of his generalship is the outcome of the season. To the team was victory, to the n1anager success. There is probably none of the first class honors of undergraduate life more keenly sought after than the managership of a major team. There is none which involve n1ore genuine hard work. The competition is always sharp, the duties manifold. When gained the real work begins. To arrange a schedule to satisfy all colleges concerned and still balance it so as not to overtax one's team at any time and withal to preserve a good balance of home and out-of-town games requires real ability. All this Keating accomplished, not only n1aking a clean sweep of the Northeastern League, but add- ing several difficult games, such as the one with Princeton. Further we believe that in Union's history never has there been a long- er list of \straight\ victories than in this basketball season. :,:.I \ ' ' j ~ I . 'I ,·:I ,,, ' '!': i ' I· ' I ':

14 THE CONC'ORDIENSIS K t . ' k . . ea lng s wor 1s apprec1ated by all the students and it is to be hoped that his able assistant manager, Foster Brown,. will have equal success next year. THE SEC·OND TEAM. Creditable Work by the Second String. On Wednesday night, March 17, the Ath- l~tic Board awarded the A. U. A .. to Zim- tner, Galbraith, Scoby, Girling and Moyni- han and class numerals to Ketchum, Hum- mer, Roof and Goodman. These are the m.en who have composed the second team this year and they have worked hard and faithfully in order that the 'varsity might perfect their system of play and become a smooth machine. That they have succeed- ed in their efforts goes without saying for they have developed the best college basket- ball team in the country and one of which any college .might well be proud. Coach Dawson says that it is the scrub that makes the 'varsity and taking this for their motto the Union College second team has gone about its work with astonishing re- sults. It is upon these men that we will de- pend to fill the places left vacant by Erny Houghton, Teedy Woods and the Beavers, and if they continue their good work of this season Union will again be represented by a winning tean1 next year. . The second team had but two games on its schedule and was unlucky enough to lose each by a single point. They were heaten by the fast State Normal College team of Albany by a score of .24-2:3 and by the Williams second team by the score of 21-20. In this latter game the absence of Galbraith, who missed the train from W es- leyan, made it necessary to bring up Girl- ing from guard to center and thus. break up the combination which often made the ' . h varstty urry. However Coach Dawson had a great deal of confidence in his second string men and allowed them to play the last part of R. P .. I. games, the \Vesleyan game at Sche- nectady and the Colgate game at Hamilton. In each of these contests the subs held their own with the stars of other colleges and :Vhile keeping their opponents from scoring, 1n many cases added a few points. Espec- ially was this true in the Wesleyan game when Captain Houghton called his men from the floor in the middle of the second half and sent in the second team to finish the game. During the remainder of the con- test the ball was almost continually in pas~ session of the Union team with the result that Scoby scored a field goal and Zimmer scored one point from a foul while W es~ leyan went scoreless. A review of the team's work during the season leads us to believe that the men can be n1ade to fit in with Mudge and Haubner and will next year form a team that will bring the Wright and Ditson trophy back to Union for the third -consecutive year. 'VARSITY STATISTICS. Field Foul Points Height vVeight Games Goals Goals Scored Houghton, lg. '\' ft. 10~ . 145 14 ________ !) tn. 37 103 1'11 D. Beaver, rg. ________ 5 ft. 8 . 145 14 41 1n. 2 84 'Voods, c. ----------- 6 ft. 2 . 160 14 28 ln. 0 56 J. Beaver, rf. _________ 5 ft. 8 . 140 14 26 1n. 0 52 liaubner, H. __________ 5 ft. 2~ . 133 9 1n. 9 0 18 l\1udge, 1£. ____________ 5 ft. 8 . 138 11 1n. 9 0 18 Average height, 5 ft. 8~ in. Average weight, 143 ~· 'Total points scored, 416. Opponents' score, 225. ( ( c; ...

. g, c- m n- er ck THE CONCORDIE'NSIS. 15 BAS,KETBALL AND ITS PROSPECTS. Captain Houghton Optimistic for Future. The greatest basketball season Union has ever had has passed into history. Four of the scarred veterans of the basketball tean1 have laid aside their uniforms to don them no tnore. vV e are has-be ens., but during our active life we labored well.; we did our best. We are selfish in a certain sense, we hope vve will be missed; we hope that the rec- ords we have helped make will stand for a time, but these are only natural and fleet- ing thoughts. We all join in wishing: the 1916 captain and his team the greatest possible success . .. The Union team this year won thirteen out of fourteen games, the last twelve being straight victories. The Northeastern Col- legiate championship was won without a defeat and this alone is a feat to be proud of. Basketball at Union, is a sport which has developed wonderfully within the past five years. From fair teams in 1911 and 1912 we have advanced until we stand at the head of the college basketball teams of our country. During the past three years rec- ords sho,v that we in 1913 -------------------- ]914 -------------------- 1915 -------------------- Won. 11 11 13 35 Lost 1 1 5 Giving us a total of 35 victories and 5 de- feats in the past three years. Here in figures we see why Union is regarded as one of the greatest basketball colleges in the country. Now for the factors that have led in bring- ing about these :figures. There have been several factors that have led to the championship of the Northeastern I-~eague and the wonderful showing that the team has made. They are: (1) playing qualities of the team; (2) second team; {3) coaching ability of 1'1r. Dawson, and ( 4) support of students, faculty and alumni. In dwelling upon the playing quality of the team, the ability to start quickly and maintain a heartrending pace until the final whistle., strikes me as the most important factor in winning our games. The unity ·of the team in our hardest games, their unself- ishness in giving the ball to the man with the best shot has helped wonderfully in making our scor,ing average 30 points a game. Our defensive style \every man cover your own man when your opponents have the ball\ has kept our opponents down to an average of 16 points a game. All these things, together with the ability of every man to shoot and pass accurately have helped us roll up a total of 416 points to our opponents' 225. The faithfulness of the second team, Zim- mer, Girting, Galbraith~ Scoby and Moyni- han, in reporting for practice every day, and their ability to give the 'varsity the best kind of a game has helped put the 'varsity into shape and also given us some idea of who would be likely candidates for next year's team. The third team, Hummer, Goodman, Roof, Ketchum, Aikin, and Reed, also reported faithfully and did good work . Mr. Dawson, as coach, has met with in- ntu11erable difficulties and obstacles, but he has met and overcome them with his usual aggressiveness and power. He has acted with all fairness to everyone and it is with- out doubt due to hin1 that we have our won- derful record behind us. The support of the student body has from the very first been of the best. The cheer- ing, singing and general support has been faultless in every respect. The faculty by its ratification of such a hard schedule and its general interest and support have also helped a great deal in making the present season possible. The alumni have co- operated with and supported the team as never before. For the Princeton gan1e alumni came fron1 Pittsburg, and New York, as well as all of the surrounding t0\\ 7 11S. ., ,_ ., ': ·~ , I ::t\'· ·. .•. 1 . I ' '•i .

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The prospects for a winning team next year seem good. With Haubner, Mudge, and the whole second team to build with, together with the entering material it seems to me that Mr. Dawson will have good ma- terial to work with, and while a champion- ship team may not be built up in one year we can at least look forward. to a successful season. Now just a word of warning. Are we good losers? We have been good winners. Now suppose Union has a losing team. \Vill everyone give the captain and his team the same loyal support that we have re- ceived? Yes, even more, for a losing team needs more support than a winning team. Bear this in mind, the college has a wonder- ful athletic reputation, many students have been attracted here through it, and we want to keep them coming. Even though our teams are not so successful a deep-roused college spirit in the student body will do mt.tch toward keeping men on the road towards .union. In· closing I wish to thank the team, the squad, the coach, the student body, faculty and alumni for their loyal support, and close as I began by wishing next year's captain and team the greatest possible success. ERNEST B. HOUGHTON, Captain. THE ATHLETIC DINNER. We Ate, Drank and Were Merry. As a fitting close to Union's best basket- ball season ca1ne the second annual Athletic Dinner, given by the Press Club, Tuesday night. The. student body and alumni were out in force, there being over thirty of the alumni and some two hundred students. The attendance not only showed the appre- ciation by the student body of the work of Captain Houghton's men but also of the clean football slate. The banquet was served in the gym, the freshmen of the Press Club acting as wait- ers. The menu was as follows: Cream Tomato Soup Olives Heinz Pickles Roast Prime Ribs B.eef Currant J eHy Brown Gravy Petite Pois Fresh Butter Beans Mashed Potatoes Ice Cream. Macaroni Bisque Cakes Demi Tasse Prof. John I. Bennett, he of the Greek gods, presided at the post prandial with his usual humor. Even he is a firm believer that we have now something to live up to. The first speaker was Prexy Richmond, without whom no student gathering could be quite complete. The pride the aiumni take in old Union was expressed by Orson Richards of Glens Falls, who spoke in be- half of the alumni. The next speaker was the man who has done the most to achieve the record Union has just made. Coach Dawson briefly re- viewed the work of the two past seasons- basketball and football-and the prospects for baseball. Garry Wood followed with a plea for support of the Electrical Sho~T on April 6 and 'I. The last speaker was Erny Houghton, who spoke in behalf of the four captains of the teams. The athletic record has been in- deed enviable. The lighter side of the entertainment was provided by a, moving picture show inter- spersed with songs from the college quar- tette. The committee, consisting of Paul A. Hauenstein, chairman, Jeff Delchamps, Fos- ter Brown and Morris Gilbert, deserve a great an1ount of credit for the affair. The dinner besides being an expression of ap- preciation to the athletic teams, proved to be a general get-together for faculty, under- graduates and alumni. Columbia University has definitely de- cided not to send a crew to the Panama- Pacific Exposition this summer to compete in the Exposition races. ., t c c . 11 t t c 11 \i1 . 11 f1 u t] h c: n . 1t 1T. h tl kJ p] at 01 B ax w tr fa be: . 111 pc to of \i\,i of ou it~

THE :CQNCORDIENSIS. 17 ~- COACH DAWSON ·o·N THE SEASON. ·The Coach Analyzes Requirements for Good Athletes. In commenting upon our basketball sea- son of this year, I shaH confine myself to two important points: The indomita.ble courage of the individual players compostng our championship team; and the conscient- iousness with which these men entered into training to make themselves physically. fit. In all branches of sport there are, I thtnk, two general principles involved. F~rst of ~11 comes the acquiring of the phystcal sk11l necessary to playing any particular game well· then comes the exercising of this skill in k~en competition. The degree of skill- fulness which a player possesses depends upon his natural, physical ability and upon the amount of practice and experience he has had in his particular sport. The exer- cising of the skill in keen competition is regulated by the admirable quality, cour- age ; or, to use the term so full of meaning in the athletic vernacular, NERVE. The practice and experience which our tnen-especially Houghton, the two Beaver boys, and Woods-have gone through in their long term of service at college is well known to all of us here. And the natural physical ability which these men (Haubner and Mudge included) possess has been dem- onstrated night after night on. the court. But I do not think that we have realized and appreciated the splendid NERVE upon which our team was built. There was a tremendous driving force in that team which far surpassed purely skillful handling of the ball. Take for instance, our game this year in Middletown-which we won by but a few points. In the garne both teams appeared to be very evenly matched-in. fact, because of being more familiar with the small court, \V esleyan for a time had a shade the better of it. But the indomitable driving power of our boys began to show as the game neared its close· and in the last few minutes of play ' we forged ahead to victory. Another ex ... atTtple is the Princeton game. Here our tean1 111·et a brand new style of play, played by an experienced team which was then nearly at the top of the Eastern Collegiate Leag-ue. After diagnosing the play of their opp~nents, the Union boys gave an admir- able demonstration of pure grit-and won the gan1e. \\' e can, then, be proud, indeed, of our n1en both for their acquired skill and their inherent courage. _ And now a word about the manner in -vvhich our team trained. It is a well known fact in athletics, that, no matter how much detern1ination or courage a man may possess in a contest, if he has not carefully pre- pared his body to stand great physical strain, he cannot \play the game\ as it should be played. In other words, a sudden in1pulse or inspiration, alone, cannot make an athlete. By careful preparation he must fit himself to do justice to whatever he possesses. For our team the matter . of training was, for the most part, merely hv- ing as the men always lived. There were no excesses to be stopped; there were no new rules to be followed. These men kne\v no fear because they had prepared their bodies to carry out to the very end all that their wills could demand. \D \ d \J ke\ \Ernie\ Houghton, . ave an a Beaver, and \Teedy\ Woods, in their three seasons of work for the college, have set examples of skill, conscientious training and courage which will always be the ideal of Union College athletes. FRED T. DAWSON. TOO EARLY. \Working hard at college?\ \Not yet. The ground is too V\ret slippery. We begin regular training k \ wee . and next Take in the first annual Union College Electrical Show April 6 and 7.

18 THE OONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSlS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, Richard E. Taylor, '16 --------------------- 2'05 Nott Street. ASSISTANT EDITOR, Nathaniel A. Finch, '16 ---------- Alpha Delta Phi House. LITERARY EDITOR, Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 ------------------- North Colonnade ASSISTANT LITERARY EDITOR, Jam,es B. Taylor, '16 -------- 705 Nott Street. ASSOCIATE EDITORS: D. F. Chapman, '17; W. M. Gilbert, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; F. W. Porter:r '17; R. W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS: F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., 18; W. G. Carey, '1:8; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J. J. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. P'orter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER, Karl E. Agan, '15 ------------------ Delta Upsilon House ASSISTANT BUSINESS MANAGER, Howard ~A.. Glenn, '16 __ Kappa Alpha Lodge Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press, 206 South Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. SALUTATORY. With this issue the new Concordiensis Board begins its task of expressing the sen- timent of Union College throughout the cotning year. We are conscious of the grav- ity of the duty and appreciative of the honor and trust conferred upon us. Of late years the policy of the Concordiensis has been one of improvement. In the applica- tion and extension of this policy we shall find our chief labor and, if successful, our keen~ est pleasure. We wish to make the Concordiensis the organ of expression of each and every member of Union College. The co-operation of faculty and students is ·earnestly re- quested. \\T e hope to n1ake the paper attractive so that you will read it because you really want to, because there is something in it worthy of your time and your attention. For this reason, certain new methods will be adopted, not because we are dissatisfied with the old, but because we want to give you son1ething new and fresh. We hope that you will approve of all we do and say and that if you do not that you will tell us both for our own sake and yours. Remember· that the Concordiensis is \published by the students of Union College.\ The board merely does the tnechanical part of get~ ting it out. J\.nd no\V a word to the retired board. It has been a pleasure to work with you for three years. It is an honor to be selected by you to fill your positions. It will be a greater honor to take up your work, and following the policy laid do,vn by you, to elab- orate on it as we are able. We hope that you will feel free to make such suggestions as you see fit for the common purpose of furthering the interests of the paper and the college. It is neither the time nor place to tell our readers now what the Concor~ diensis will be, but when we have given it a year of our earnest and sincere labor we hope they will tell us frankly and that we shall not shrink from hearing their verdict.

THE CONCORDIENSTS. 19 THE BASKETBALL SEASON. We have finished a· successful basketball season. We take just pride in our tean1 and their accomplishment. Not only did we win the championship t,f the Northeastern League by a decisive margin, but we played a number of outside games with no small n1.easure of success. We are pleased to have beaten West Point; we are delighted to have beaten Princeton. Though the Cornell game was lost at the beginning of the sea- son, we feel that we could more than have turned the score in another game at its close. \Ve shall not, however, mourn over a game lost. It is over and we have no regret or hard feelings toward anybody. As lTnion men we are proud not of the victories alone, but of the spirit at all times manifested by the team. We have a good name with other colleges as gentlemen and 've trust not to have lessened it this season. In spite of an exceedingly heavy schedule our 1nen were ever ready and eager to face the task before them. This is a manifesta- tion of the Union fighting spirit and a proof of the fact that our men were at all times in proper physical condition to do what was required of them. For this we owe much to Coach Dawson, much to the individual men1bers of the team and a great deal to the second team and the squad for the necessary practice they gave them when no immed- iate glory or distinction was to be forthcoming for them. Above all, must be placed the mutual co-operation which made the team a unit and which united the five men in one so as to form a perfect fighting machine. The spectacular and selfish system of individual starring, we are glad to say, was at no time in evidence. Each player worked for his fellows, his team and his college. What next year will bring forth in basketball would be difficult to prophesy. The team will loose by graduation its four central players, through whose work our victories have been won. There are many men of real merit left. 'The second team has shown its ability in several of this season's games and much may well be hoped for from it. We may also expect to secure some good material from the entering class next fall. At all events if it is too early to prophesy, it is too early to lose heart and we shall not err in placing our confidence in thorough training and Union spirit. We, as the college, wish to express appreciation of the season as a whole to Cap- tain, coach and team. Your work is not past but lives and shall live to redound credit and fan1.e to Union and all that Union stands for. ATHLETIC BOARD AWARDS. Six \U's\ Given for Basketball. At a meeting of the awards committee of the Athletic Board on Wednesday, March 17, six men were awarded \U's\ for basket- ball. They were Captain Houghton '15, D. Beaver '15, J. Beaver '15, Woods '15, Haub- ner '17, and Mudge '18. \A. U. A.'s\ were awarded to Zimmer '16, Galbraith '17, Scoby '17, Girling '1 '( and :\1oynihan '18. Ketchum '16, Hummer '16, Roof '17 and Goodman '17, ~eceived class numerals. II }! ,, 1:' : !' \'1 1!: . . . 1 ' i~. I '' ~·, . ·I •, ·' l :I .. .

20. 'T'HE CONCORDIENSIS. THE ELECTRICAL SHOW. Exhibition Will Open Tuesday Night in the E. E. Lab. and Washburn 'Hall. Nex~ Tuesday evening at 8 :00 o';clock the doors of the electrical laboratory will open to the first Union College annual Electrical Show in all its glory of blazing lights, sur- prising phenomena and interesting exhibits of electrical apparatus of every description. This is the :first time in the history of the college that such a show has been arranged and ~upon the success of this year':s show de- pends the future of electrical exhibitions at Union. The affair will. undoubtedly be of great benefit to the college, inasmuch as many high school students and scientific men from this section of the state will at- tend. The show will include many electrical freaks, such as an incandescent lamp lighted under water with no connecting wires, fry- ing eggs on ice, a solid iron ring floating on water and a talking arc.. A complete electrical flat of four rooms will be exhibited equipped with the most modern electrical appliances of all sorts. The fiat will be uniquely lighted featuring a triple wiring system, lighting consecutively the direct, semi-direct and indirect lighting fixtures. Beautiful domes, lamps and modern elec- troli:ers 'vill be arranged throughout the flat. The telephone exhibit will include an ex ... change switchboard with inter-communicat- ing lines, showing the work done by cen- tral and the actual plans in detail of sub- scribers calling central and being connect- ed with other subscribers. The wireless telegraph exhibit will show a station as well equipped as any commer- cial station in the state. The apparatus has a sending radius of one thousand miles. Two complete electric railways, a n1ine hoist, high frequency exhibits, an electrical dum- n1.y who walks, the evolution of the pres- ent highly efficient incandescent lamps and numberless other interesting exhibits. will be shown in the electrical laboratory and in the basement of Washburn Hall. Every person attending the show may have his resistance and his electromotive force measured. There will be a prize of a five pound box of candy for the person hav- ing the highest resistance and a similar a \vard to the person having the highest elec- tronlotive force. Tickets are on sale. See Norton or New- ton any tim.e, anywhere. BLACK CAT BANQUET. The Black Cat Club held a special meet- ing and banquet Friday night at which tilne the following were voted into men1.bership in the .club : Gunning, Stoller, Scully, Soler, Brown, Brunet, Zimmer, Gardner, Finch, Santee, '16; and Bull, Gilbert, Chapman, Brandow, Hallock, and Knight, '17'. The post prandial programme consisted in talks on the subject, \Military Training £or Col- lege Students,\ By Hooper, Blodgett, Duane, Delchainps and Danner. Danner is president of the club and Hooper secretary. THE 1916 GARNET. ()nee upon a time, there was a community of young men gathered together in the inter- est of education. They formed a state, these single-minded young men-· a democratic state it was. And once in the desire for even freer and more enlightened rule they con- ceived the idea of codifying the \doings\ of their state-they decreed to choose from out their number three and ten to form a com- mission of thirteen to com pile the Annals A.nnual of that body politic, yclept in dip- lotnatic terms the college of sweet con- cord. \Let this,'' they said, \in volume form be published annually and contain in likeness of an anthropological museum sam pies of the rhymster's trade, and sketches frotn the budding novelists, relieved with tracings of the artist's brush, with here and there a

e p e y. p- m ss of of a THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 quip a11:d lampoon ·clever to leaven and re- lieve the rest withal, and scenes include which show the ground.s and buildings of the state, the great round tower of stone to wit wherein the slothful for their sloth condeinned be to ferret scraps of wisdom out from musty tomes forgotten ages since. All such and too, insert the portrait of the warden here in chief with canine shadows two upon his study floors. And likewise in the guise of state reports or bulletins of de- partments, give account of fiscal year, pro ceeding-s of commissions and of bureaus, of football undecemvirate, and basketball quinquenviri so that all may read and know the what with which and when, with what success we pass recurring years.\ So they decreed and here hooks on the tale of life that's practcal and present. There soon will be (on May the oneth)- it's now at press-published and put on sale the first edition of the Annals Annual for fiscal year 'sixteen. To those who ~ave libraries of history, or historic turn of mind, or even naught beside \two-fifty\ this will prove of interest and worth. Get one !-Adv. THE NORTHEASTERN INTERCOL- LE,GIATE LEAGUE SCORES. Points For Against Won. Lost . P.C. Union ---·-- 169 97 6 0 1.000 Colgate ---- 160 128 4 2 .667 \tVesleyan -- 105 129 2 4 .333 Williams - -· 92 172 0 6 .000 On the offensive Union scored 169 points, an average of 28 a game. Colgate's average was 27 points a game and its total 160. TENNIS TEAM STARTS PRACTICE Schedule of Six Games Arranged. A m.eeting of candidates for the tennis team was held Friday evening, March 26. Plans for the co1ning season were discussed. An attempt is going to be made to put tennis on a higher level and a system of training has been worked out for the mem- bers of the team. An attempt will also be made to play all matches and do an practic- ing on the coilege courts. Also a system was instituted for picking the team and for arranging matches be- tween men trying out. First, eight men will be chosen and then from these a team of four will be picked by competition among them- selves. A ,call is made for more candidates,, especially among the freshmen. 1'he following schedule has been submit- ted to the Athletic Board: April 16-0pen. April 17-Rutgers at New Brunswick. A.pril 24-Wesleyan at Schenectady. l\1ay 6-Vermont at Schenectady. May 8--Stevens at Schenectady. May 1 5-Colgate at Schenectady. J\iay 22-Rutgers at Schenectady. ENGLISH CLUB ELECTION. Last Friday evening the English Club held its regular meeting in vV ashburn Hall. Dr. Stewart delivered a very interesting paper on 't] apanese Poetry,\ following which there was an informal discussion of the subject. The club also elected to membership nine undergraduates: Brovvn, '16; Brunet, '16; Gunning, '16; Hauenstein, '16.; Jacobs, '16; I~andreth, '16 ; Danner, '16; Sternfeld, 'ltl, and Gilbert, '17. Illinois University is champion of the Vl est in both football and basketball. Houghton, of Union, and Kennedy, of Col- gate, tied for the individual scoring honors, with 67 points each, an average of 11 a game. Dave Beaver, of Union, led in scoring from the floor with 20 baskets, while Houghton, of Union, with 3 7 points, led in scoring front the foul line. Yale in 1781 conferred the Degree of Doc- tor of I .. a ws upon George W as~ington. ' ! 1 ':.( l :·

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. KOL NAMUR. (A Prose Poem.) Some throw the ictus on the \a\ and rhyme with \Katzenjammer which makes it sound as though 'twere spelled phonetic- ally \N amtner,\ while others (to my critic ear, it sounds a trifle tamer) disdain the \nam\ with true contempt and proudly call it \N arne-her.\ ;fhen others try the latter end (it sounds a wee bit queer) to put an umlaut on the \u\ and call the place \N ah- tneer.\ Those most like these their rivals are and make a dreadful stir; they rudely yank the umlaut off and call it plain \N ah- tnyrrh.'' But worse it is to sack a town and take her ethnics from her as those who style this fi\'rankish town in Teuton accents \Nommer.\ You ask me what I'd call the spot. I scarcely know, I'm sure, but think that I my French would try and call the place \N ah-moor.\ Life is one fool thing after another; but love is two fool things after each other.- Ex. SOME GAME! (By Gum). \\lind blew the whistle and Bull tossed up the ball. Silk Hat tipped off and ball was nailed by Hammer. Guinea fowled and Gun shot the first basket. Soldier on guard played a slow but watchful game. Molasses was slower. Cowcatcher played a fast game as for\vard and BuJ:lseye made a good cen- ter. Machine gun made several long shots in quick succession but with help from the employment bureau. Noose was put out for repeatedly holding man around neck. Lights went out soon after. First half closed with Bugs on ahead. Burglars opened last half with a jimmy. Pin lost his head and shot a peach in enemy's basket. Winter kept cool and Horses did good team work. Legs was fouled for run- ning vvith ball. Sick man threw up ball and Rich guy tipped it off to Waiter. Buckwheat shot long basket from field and Balloons went up in the air. Hogs rooted contin- uously. Knot tied game. Score 10 to 10. Time ditto. Jury left court with Alcohol in good spirits. Next gan~e to be played after this.

up for ' eat 10. in THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 ALL-ETERNITY CHAMPIONSHIP. Picked Team From Heroes of History to Battle With Union Lads-\On to Hades.\ (Special to the Concordiensis) A picked team from the fast Hades League will oppose the Union champions, who have won the championship o£ Earth, Mars, and Saturn in the gentle sport of basketball, on Friday evening_, February 30th, 2015, at 7 :30 o'clock. The ou tcom·e will decide once for all the championship of the universe. The Union men expect an easy victory over the '\'dead ones.\ The teams will line up as fol- lows: Achilles ----------------------------Jake R. F. Samson ...------------------ Joe or Jimmie L. F. Fiercules ------------------------- 1reedy c. Caesar---------------------------- Ernie L. G. Napoleon ------------------------- Dave R. G. Plans are under way to secure Socrates for referee and 'Chronos for timekeeper. Socrates will be on hand if Xanthippe has no suffrage meeting to attend. Manager Priam of the Hades Champs has wired that a block of seats would be reserved for Union studes who desire to witness the game, but that applications must be made to him immediately. The price of admission is 10 sesterces or 14 shekels. Reserved seats cost 300,000 yen (equivalent to a jitney in U. S. coin) extra. There will be dancing after the game. A special ferry-boat has been chartered from Charon. The melange will con1.e off in the Styx gymnasium, Lethe park. Show your college spirit, ~en of Union! Think of the privilege of being able to see Dr. Nott cheer his sons to victory. Think how inspiring it will be to hear the re-union class of 1802 cheer till the echoes ring with \I-Iikahs.\ Show the world that, not only can we beat any team this side of Hell, but -vve can trim the prides of the infernal regions too. Drop those slogans of \On to Hamil- ton\ or \On to Troy.\ From now on let the battle cry be \On to Hades.'' We must here highly resolve to tie a knot in the tail of old Cerberus, to kick him three times, once for each jaw. AI 1 aboard for Charon's yacht: \Facilis descensus A verno.\ A. M. J., '16. TO THE BASKETBALL TEAM. \And so they hound the laurel around the . ' b \ v1ctor s : row. Aye, lightly bind the garland green, for they have won it now. Four years they played together. Four years their foes went down And now upon their manly brows we'll place the victor's crown. Three years through hard won victories, old Union's flag they bore And on the fourth they scaled the heights that they had sought of yore. Both Wesleyan and Williams in vain their strength did try, 'rhen Colgate fell before their might and \Yith her R. P. I. The Ar1ny fought on native ground, but yielded in the fray And proud old Princeton bent at last be- fore the Garnet's sway. Then hai 1 ye, n1.asters of the League through aU the broad northeast ! 'T'hrice welcome to our banquet board, thrice \velcome to the feast ! All hail to Captain Houghton! To him our paeans swell, All hail to you, Coach Dawson, who train- ed the team so well ! All hail to you, the winning tean1! Our tribute now we pay, A blushing wreath of spring-time flowers upon your brows we lay. '- i '1.! ; '··:i ''i' :I! '' .! ' .; J . j ,· ' fi. : ' · .. 't'·:·· : ·.·(· 1 • . ....... ' ' 'j ! i i I . i

24 THE CONCORDIENSIS 'fheir petals soon shall scatter, their leav;es and stems decay, But Union shall your glory keep for ever and for aye l ROB ROY. NOBODY HOME. By John H. McGough. Jack Lightfoot was a sprinter, the finest in the land, Could do the hundred in 10 flat, the mile in 4:15. The way he hopped the hurdles was wonder- ful and grand, But Pol. Econ. and IIistory just bounded off his bean. • Bill Wiggins was a catcher and ranked away 'bove par; He had a wing of iron; he hit them hard and far. No college backstop in the land had any- thing on Bill, Yet he couldn't handle Mr. Kant or old John Stuart Mill. Steve Holdfast starred at football, a mighty rugged tackle ; And every tin1e he charged the line he made the whole crowd cackle. Ten men could not get through his wing; yes, Stephen was so horrid That Horace, Livy and that bunch could not get through his forehead. · Now when \exam\ tin1e came around, brave Bill and John and Stephen Went up against the questions hard and hoped to come out even. Ro1ne was not builded in a day, ·neither is education, So all three men are on the bench till next exa1nination. Moral: It's good fun, but poor policy not to let your studies interfere with your col- lege career.-Exchange. SPRING TRA:CK SEASON. Another Successful Team Expected. 'rhis year we hav,e every prospect of a most successful trac1<: team, perhaps another of our clean slate kind. The freshman class has contributed .sone good men among whon1. Aikens,. H.a.n:ce and Mudge have particularly good high school records. Fur ... thermore, there is a mighty live nucleus left from last year. In spite of our encouraging prospects, ho,vever~ any men with ability should come out, ~specially those doing distance or dash wo·rk, since the team is '\r\reakest in these events. The interclass meet which will take place on 1\foving Up Day will be a real live af ... f~ir. A plan is now on foot to obtain gold, silver and bronze medals as prizes. All classes should organize their teams and all 1nen should begin tiaining as it is the early work that counts most. Schedule f<>r Track Season. May 8-R. P. I. here. iviay 15-Interclass meet, here. May 22-N. Y. S. Intercollegiates, at Utica this year instead of at Hamilton. May 29---Hamilton, at Clinton. By winning the championship of the Northeastern Intercollegiate Basketball L.eague, without a defeat, Union College demonstrated that it had one of the strong- est fives ever de-veloped in the history of the sport. Althot1gh it did not meet Yale, the cham- pionship team of the old league, it met and defeated Princeton when that team was running neck and neck with Yale for the lead, and its only reverse was at the hands of Cornell, which finished second to Yale.- New York Tribune. Splash! Rutgers has just opened her new swimming pool. Don't forget the Electrical Show next Tuesday and Wednesday.

a ng ng . lS af ... all rly at the ball ng- of the THE CONCORDIENSIS 25 ARE WE NEXT, HONORABLE FACULTY? Madisonensis Board of .Colgate to Receive College Credit for Work on the Paper. The following reprint is frorn the Colgate weekly paper. Favorable action was taken by the facul- ~ ty, at a recent meeting, on the recommenda- tions drawn up by the committee, appoint- ed some time ago, to consider the petition of the Madisonensis Board to receive col- lege credit fo~ work done on the paper. Colgate has now fallen in line with the policy of many of the Eastern college news- papers, in every case this system having proved successful. It has been shown that a system similar to the one that we have adopted has given an added impetus to the competition and has increased the ef- ficiency of the work of the board . The recommendations passed last Mon- day are as follows: 1. That college credit be allowed to the editor-in-chief, the managing editor and not more than seven associate editors, pro ... vided that all of the above shall be upper- classmen; but that no credit be allowed to business managers and reporters. 2. That the work and credit thus pro- vided for be under the supervision of some officers of the faculty to be selected by the professors in the English Departments; and that it shall be understood that such super- vision is to be purely literary, and is not to involve any censorship of the paper or its policy. 3. That the editor-in--chief and the tnan- aging editor be allowed maximum credit of three hours each semester, and the associate editors a maximun1 credit of two holtrs each semester, this to be made .a part of thf\ regular fifteen hours registration for the sen1ester. 4. \fhat the supervising officer may re- duce this maximum credit to such an ex- tent as 111ay seetn to hin1 to be justified by any inadequacy in the work. 5. That the total amount of credit to be given to any student under these rules be such that he shall not receive more than fifteen hours for a semester, plus any addi- tional credit for attendance, unless special per1nission is given for additional extra work. 6. f'rhat for the present semester, editors be allowed the credit above provided for in addition to such hours as they have al- ready registered for this semester. THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION GIFT. Students Must Raise $35,000 to Get $75,000. The present status of the prospective gift of $7 5,000 from the Rockefeller Foundation is fairly well understood. In order to re ... ceive this amount $35,000 must be raised by commencement time. Prexy Richmond and the trustees have practically exhausted their resources. They have succeeded in raising many thousands. It is up to the students to raise the remaining sum. As the past his- tory of Union shows, this is by no means an impossible task for Union students. The gyn1 was the outgrowth of a movement started by the student body. If the student body was capable of that feat it is equal to the present undertaking. This is not a rich man's college, but less than o11e hundred dollars contributed through the efforts of each student is sufficient to realize the necessary sum. It does not have to be paid at once, but tnay be pledged to be paid in three installments of one-third the amount subscribed, the first payment to be made in Septetnber, 1916, and the other two pay- ments at intervals of one year. The terms are certainly liberal. Each student is probably acquainted with son1eone whom he could interest and who is able to aid. Every student who has such an acquaintance should in1n1ediately get in co1nn1unication with hin1 V\tith a view to I' '·' ... :tl.. . ,,, ., I n\ \ ' I <• !: ' l: ' i l ~

26 THE CONC'ORDIENSlS extracting a donation. A committee has been selected by the faculty in conjunction with _the Terrace Council to assume charge of the campaign to raise the money. But it is the individual effort put forth by every tnan in the student body which is going to put this thing through by commencement time. For Union to lose this money now, means that all future gifts from the Rocke- feller Foundation are rendered absolutely nil. But, on the other hand, if the $35,000 is forthcoming by June we shall not only be the recipient of $75,000 but probably of many more thousands later on. The principle of one good turn deserving another works in this matter as in anything else. It is now up to the students to make the first turn, and to make it in the direction from which the kale can be produced. It may look like a stupendous undertaking, but the fact is very patent that not one cent will be raised by going at it in a hopeless way. Every man can do his little bit, and thus the grand re- sult will be accomplished. This is a· case of n1aking big ones out of little ones. Let every man pledge his mite now and see to it that son1ething is done to interest any- one who has any spare increment. CONGRATULATIONS. Heartiest congratulations! A daughter has been born to Prof. and Mrs. Morland King. May she attend many Junior Proms! FACULTY MEET SOCIALLY IN THE GYM. Professor Bennett Speaks on the Traditions- of ·Union. The faculty met socially and infor1nal1y in the gymnasium on Thursday evening 1 March 11. There was some preliminary side-stepping and frisking on the floor, after which all sat down in the trophy room to · listen. President Richmond was invited to the chair, presented Professor March, who read his remarkable Phi Beta Kappa poem on the wa;r in Europe. Professor Bennett was then called on to say something on the traditions of the coUege. He began by briefly reciting the history of the college, m,entioning the n1ore noteworthy events and' persons, Concluding, he said that the prin- cipal traditions of the college were five: (1) The college, he said, has been Cath- olic from the first, and still is; that it is so now is not remarkable, but that it has been so from the first is unique and is a principal cause of Union's character and distinction. { 2) The college has been democratic fron1 the first ; it sprang from a popular move- m~ent and continued in the spirit of its ini- tiation. (3) Another tradition is great simplicity, \which has been from the begin- ning still is, and may it ever be,\ said the speaker. ( 4) The college has believed in hero-worship. The authors of our former greatness were held in reverence, and right- ly. Nothing better could happen to Union College than that others should merit and receive like reverence. The speaker tried to show specifically how much the belief that a college is men, not walls, has contributed to Union's greatness. (5) A tradition of the college is the aspect of the place, the vivid recollection of the familiar and distin- guished lineaments of our Alma Mater. This recollection is constant in the minds and hearts of Union's sons, recalling their thoughts and affections. Especially the Garden has had a great and good effect. After the speaking the faculty had refresh- ments and pleasant talk. Professor King was the principal author of the occasion. Tommy, very sleepy, was saying his pray- er: \Now I lay tne down to sleep,\ he began, \I pray the Lord my soul to keep.\ Here he started to doze off. \If his mother prompted. \If he hollers let him go, eeny, n1eny, n1iny, tno.\-Ex.

bv \' gc, . so pal on. onl ve- 0 eat . . tn to \' ot . the ing he THE CONCORDIENSIS. 27 'C.LASSICAL CLUB MEETING. Club Soon to Become Associate Order of Pansoterists. \Pansoterists\ are what the members of the Classical Club are about to become. No, this is no typographical error. We do not mean Pantheists, Pantologists, Panto- min'lists,, Pandemonium, Pan-American, but simply--Pansoterists. If this title is suf- ficiently vague, the members will feel quite satisfied. l\1ore information will follow in due course. At a m.eeting held Tuesday evening, Mr. Randles read an interesting paper on \Ter- ence's Influence on Moliere.\ A brief sketch of the life of each dramatist was given, and the speaker '\Vent on to account for the re- markable similarity between various pas- sages in the works of each. Mr. Randles concluded by reading extracts from each author, indicative of his previous remarks. The paper was thoroughly enjoyed by all present. At the business session preceding the paper, about fifteen members of the fresh- 111an class were elected to membership. They are to be initiated April 6th, at which date officers ,;vill be elected for the follow- ing year. The club will make merry at the festive board some time around April 20th. Chairn'lan Austin Martin of the nominat- ing committee presented the following slate of officers: F'or president, C. Foster Brown, Avro1n M. Jacobs; for vice-president, David Chapman, John Tregurtha; for secretary- treasurer, Clyde Heatly, Ignatz Stein. The retiring officers are: James Fi tzger-- ald, president; Richard Taylor, vice-presi- dent ; Jacob Gauger, secretary-treasurer. YE. GENTLE SEASON OF SPRING. Y e gentle March zephyrs blow over the land, Filling ye blinkers with cinders and sand. Y e new spring head-piece frolics away, Filling optics with weep-wash and heart with dismay. Y e dandelions blossom, a pest manifold; Ye lawn drips with hose-pipe, ye nose with a cold. Y e early bird catches ye worn1 under feet ; While Jane beats the carpet, John heats a retreat . Y e crow cusses loudly, ye cowslips slip down, It's too cold for ye country, too warm for ye town. Y e spring poet warbles 'neath yon budding: tree, Throw a brick and be quick! 0 beg pardon. N ME ' ot -· . THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Last . The Innocent Bystander finds that the Publication Board, in its infinite wisdom, has called upon him to assume new duties, and that henceforth he must endeavor to convert the columns of the Concordiensis into ex- anlples of literary endeavor, rather than to have them resemble the annals of a debating society or criticism circle. Therefore, the Innocent Bystander will not chirp weekly (or weakly) as heretofore, but will break forth only into occasional sound. He wishes to thank those readers who have given his articles th~ir attention, and especially \~Anti-Grind \Gus and others· who have replied to him in writing . Perhaps, however, the idea of an \Inno- cent Bystander\ column is good enough to make of it a permanent feature. So far it has been limited to the opinions of a single individual, and to subjects of his interest only. Now there n1ust certainly be a multi- tude of subjects upon which he has not touched, and a multitude of opinions which he has not expressed. So, therefore, any- one who has any opinioJ;J. relating to any popular subject, may have it printed under the superscription \Innocent Bystander,\ in the future. If his criticis1n leads to an argu- lnent, he will be given ample opportunity to defend his position. But merely hand in your ideas to a member of the board and l: '. 'I

28 THE CONCORDIENSIS. you will soon derive the satisfaction of see- ing them in print. Only, however, be pre- pared to defend your position. Here is a confession. One of the ulterior motives of the Jinnocent Bystander was to t_ake the unpopular side of a question in the hope that the wrath of the students would be aroused, and incidentally, the columns of the Concordiensis filled with their de- nunciation. So, therefore, the original pur- pose will not be prostituted if we open the Innocent Bystander column to the public. · Send in your criticisms. Maybe they are good. Then again-But send them in anyway. The Innocent Bystander bids you a fond farewell, temporarily. THE INNiOCENT BYSTANDER. How did you get your musical tempera- ment? I was born in A flat.-Ex. In a recently issued report the Yale secretary advocates a shortening of the sum- mer vacation as he believes there is too much time wasted in college. \I love you,\ I cried, \My beauty, my pride, Be my bride.\ And she sighed But replied Not a word to my passionate plea. Her sign, did I miss it? Her brow, dared I kiss it, Some word to elicit, Some answer explicit? She slept !-Ah, was this it? 'Twas \Goodnight\ for me. BASEBALL PROSPECTS. Exceptionally Good Material Among Freshmen. vVhen asked about our baseball prospects Captain Woods said, \\They're fine\-and they surely are if the material that has started out continues to improve as much as it has thus far. The graduation last year of some of the stars will not he seriously felt it is hoped, as there are nine men with baseball U's still [eft. Thus far there has been a squad of about thirty-five men out for daily practice, and fifteen of these are freshmen, some of whom have had brilliant high school records. Knight appears to be promising material and perhaps wiil vie with Hun1mer and Jenkins for pitching honors, while B~yerl and Anderson will probably help out Dave Beaver behind the bat. The squad is practicing daily on the old campus, 'vhile the new field is being put into proper shape. When the weather is bad, the squad is in the gym. vVith the prospects so good, and with the co-operation of the student body, we shall have a successful season. The schedule is as follows: April16-Stevens at Hoboken. April 17-Rutgers at New Brunswick. April 24-R. P. I. at Troy. April 26-Colgate at Hamilton. May 8-Hamilton here. May 14-Hamilton(?) at Clinton. May 15-Colgate here. May 22-Rutgers here. May 29-Middlebury here. May 31-C. C. N. Y. here. June 5-R. P. I. here. June 8-Stevens here. BASKETBALL CAPTAIN ELECTED. Horace Zimmer '16 is Basketball Captain for 1915-16. At a meeting of the U. and A. U. A. bas- ketball n1en held last Monday afternoon in the gymnasium, Horace Zimn1.er '16, of Gloversville, was elected captain for the coming season. Zimmer is the only junior on the squad and is a member of the Delta Phi fraternity and vice-president of his class.

has out are be . vte . the old put . ts the for bas- . lll , of the elta his lf you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Over Plaid Effect Brown-Gray-Green You can't appreciate the excellence of tailoring in our new over plaid 1uits unless you make a dose and careful examination. We can't explain how difficult it is to m-atch the plaids in the back of a tight waisted coat-but a glance will tell the story. Have that glance Spring Display of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun 5 · & IDe Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothing Over lOc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. ;Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens Falla WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J $4.00 TO $8.00 A l? .AIR All Styles. EASTER FOOTWEAR From The World's Best lUaken KANAN STETSON SUREFI'I' We can surely fit and please you. PATTON & HALL'S Sure FIT Store, 2~ State St. . I : ) r . ,. , .. \l! ' ·' 11: ' li F. 1: ' . :\ i

More College News IN THE Readlt , Every Day GAZETTE Suits $25 and Up Flannels $5 and Up HENRY WANDLESS Old Gym. Dorm. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. N. K. McNEILL N~EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. Ra! Ra! Ra! juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid Club, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Jultus £gtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street E.D, THE THE BARBER SHOP FOR Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store BARBER UNION MEN Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, . OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishes 212 So. Centre St. A. R. Zita' s Orchestra ~~~. J~ ~ Walk-Over shoes will take ..., ~ you anywhere and hack. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished n1usic at Union College 190.5 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, '10, ·11, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World H. R. PHONE Main 3483-W Qff• d R 16'7 H It St AJb Only the Best Service. None Better for Concert ICe an , es., , 8Ml OR • t any TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students R. WIRTH Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts ~ served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a spe~ialty. Music furnished if desired. t!3S NOTT TERRACE ' Bell 'Phone '1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sa.nitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis. Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· \V LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOME\\rRIST 126 State Street Eyes Tested and GlAslet Fitt~d THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street. ·,! ,, i f '' '•' I I: , :I :I. :I :::I ,, , I ·: j ,'t: I ' ! ''i 'I . I 'I ' ( l :I '1 ,, ' ~:' I '· ( I i: '· ' ~ ' ., :. ,I , ~l ,, '' ·,' ,, '· ' I l ' ' i I . I , 'j ~'i 1 ~~ : ''! i ' i

• The Comradeship of \Bull\ Durham There is something about ripe, mellow \Bull\ Durham Tobacco that appeals to clean-cut manhood the world over. Wherever in the world two \ Bull \ Durham smokers meet-in a hotel lobby or club in Europe or America; at cross- trails in the Klondike; in some far-off seaport on the Paci·fic - each recognizes in the other a man to his own liking, a comrade in the world-wide brotherhood of \the Makings.\ A sack of \Bull\ Durham is a letter of introduction that will win friends in every part of the globe. G£NUIN£ \BULL DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO Millions of experienced smokers find the cigarettes they roll for themselves from pure, ripe \Bull\ Durham tobacco better suited to their taste and more A • 1r for FREE. satisfactory than any they buy packaaeof••papera•• with each Sc aack. ready -made. The rich, fresh fra- grance and smooth, mellow flavor of \Bull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes afford healthful enjoy- ment and lasting satisfaction. Get \the Makings \ today and \roll your own.\ FREE An l!lustrated Booklet. · show1ngcorrect ~~ way to \RollY our ;:.=.,~~ Own'' Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers will both be mailed /ree, to any address in United States on postal request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Our .. ham, N. C. Room 140G. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO • .. . .. . ~ . ·,• .. ' 'r t -.

-----------~----~----------------------------------------------l OF COURSE there is always a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls: are most necessary. Save for the necessary ones In the Th·e ~chenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Edison American Plan His Complete Works All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building Edwin Clute, Prop., Schenectady, N.Y. \On your way to the post office\ The PURE FOOD Store !J THE MOHICAN MARKEl, l! ...... .... iii The Big Store Around the Corner ~~ · 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers ·of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Bal111acaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling representing WILLIAM KIRKPATRICK Exclusive Foot Wear -agent for- The J & M Shoe Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union 132-134 Fulton Street, New York Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y. i ! ! i ·. \ I I ! . ; ! ; ' I . I r· I 1- • ·1, I I!,' ,' ! •I • . ' ! . '· I : 'I II I. 1·: . I· I i. . I i . I I' ~; ~ ' ,I :I. 'l; I ' 1 :, : . '' ' ·. 'I . i

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing- for College Men Stein-Bloch and H·ickey-Freeman JUST WRIGHT SHOES Suits and Overcoats cut to your Reductions on Winter weight measure $20 upwarcl Full . Dress Acceessories Shoes worth your Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters , 'h\} w 1 e. The newest in hats at aU times The Schenectady Clothing Co. Geissler & Ryan 313-315 State Stree1 Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANIN:G AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Stree.t 'Phone 354- W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. ENDWELL Shoes Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. Men who like 25- Cent Ciga- rettes but don't like the price should smoke M:URADS. 15c Makers of tke Riahettt Grade Turkish and Euvptia\' Cigarettes in tke World.

Stoll's Ho!brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady~ N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop .. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hilt H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than ''Ready-Made'' Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. g P.roctor\s Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A L.AMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. g57 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 435 State Street, Schenectady, N. Yo Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. .HEN ~~ ~AA~~RY OUT FOR PLE.A.SURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS Easter Gloves and Luggage ,.\.WA\'4 177 Jay Street --1AXQ1t- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~~ Albany, N. Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things rea!Jy new in sport9 Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld .. & B 126-128 Nasaau Street . . pa Ing IOS. 520 5th A vc., New York Send for Catalogue Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Streeto •'On your way to the Po1t Office\ ' i I l I :I .. i ! I I II I j I :I . i ' :j; ; 't l I I , i ' I' ': I ~ ' 'l : i :! i '' ': ··. ll

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN r I ! Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx A* 1 A =It M ettW Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clotbes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press

