• e CONCORD I ENSI S. I I ~: :: Sophomore Soiree Number = Opening Basketball Game With State College Saturday Night VOLUME 39 DECEMBER 9, T9I$ NO.9 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNNERSITY ; il

'· . ' ' . UNION UNIVERSilY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1., CJ•ur•e• leadlD&' to the degree o1 A.. B. Ct,ASSICAI.. CouRSl£ A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B-This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on en trance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. B. Cour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LA 'liN -SCIENTIFIC CouRSE- This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. :J. Cour•e leading to the degree G~ B. 8. ScntNTIFIC CouRsJt- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree et B. E. G~tNltRAL. ENGINE:ERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. S.A:NITARY ENGINEERING CouRSlt- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. E:LECTRICA~ ENGINltJtRING CouRsJt- This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. . B. Oour•e• lea41tnc to gra4aate tlegree•• CouRSE I.JtADING TO D~GKE£ or M. C. E.:-- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Couas£ LEADING To DltG:R!H or M. S. in E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouasE L.!.ADING TO DEGllSE or PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of 1\f S. in E. E. or an eqtdvalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES 1 Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. L. v.· Herrington .. Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A con1plete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having im- mediate responsibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved ll1ethods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of n1odern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- tnission must pre·sent his Medical Student's Certi- ficate from the Examinations Division of the·Board of Regents of the State of New York and n1nst furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology and French or German. Union College, Schenectady~ N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor- atory breakage. 1 The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other cotnmunication.g should be ad- dressed to THOMAS ORDWAY, M.D .. Dean. Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~te capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to tts use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each vear is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $10; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: }OHN C. WATSON, Secretary, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: ALFRED B. Hu'ES'tED, Secretary, 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. SUITS PRESSED 25c. DRY CLEANI:f\JG AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 127 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate - - vc th( Un sh< pia da, . i. dai ag< far Ga Mu sid~ wo: Th~ wh~ pro 1 We( and bet1 CH N two chaj the M. j Uni Ath . 1s at . lll c defi1

ded ted ital ces Im- fhe ·ses >ds. ~nr lOU ern ad- rti- anl nst of en- lnd dy~ ear tra or- tn· ad- ·• of .ate its .is !rS. fee, ss: led reD - The Concordiensis VOL. 39 DEC'EMBER 9, 1915 NO.9 BASKETBALL PROSPE.CTS. Though it will be hard to fill the places of the four stars of last year's basketball team., Union may well expect to make a good strong showing and make the State Normal College play basketball to get near our basket Saiur- day night. A large squad has been out for regular daily practice. Two or three teams go up against what appears to be the 'varsity- so far, namely: Scoby and Haubner, forwards; Galb~aith, center; Captain Zimmer and Mudge, guards. These men have had con- siderable practice and experience from their work with the teams of previous years. There is a hopeful squad of freshmen ()f whom Glover and Whitbeck seem especially promising. The State College five were defeated a week ago by R. P. I. by a score of 24 to 12, and the indications are that \Ve will do even better. CHANGES IN BASKETBALL RULES. Now that our first game is no more than two days distant we are interested in the changes n1ade in the Basketball Rules by the official committee representing the ~ .... M. C. A., the National Athletic Union of the United States, and the National Collegiate Athletic Association. The new set of ~rules is an improvement over the old, not so mach in changes of meanings as in giving them definite wording which would ·tend towards. a cleaner game. Attention is paid to every slight way by which a foul may be com- mitted and the penalties are none too small, the penalty for charging being a personal foul with the award of two free throws for basket. Some of the important features follow~ 1. After a dribble, a shot for the basket is permitted. Thus the developtnent of drib- bling becomes an important thing. 2. As soon as the ball in the course of a dribble is touched by both hands at the same time or is picked up and brought to rest by either one or two hands the dribble cannot be carried on further. This rule ab- solutely prevents ·dodging while dribbling and allows the opponent to play for the ball regardless of the tnan. 3. The situation known as \three men in\ is differentiated fron1 a foul under certain conditions. The tnere fact that three men have their hands on the ball does not con- stitute a foul but if a man makes the least contact with an opponent who is one of t\VO- opposing players having one or both hands on the ·ball · a foul is committed. 4. ()n a free trial for goal, as soon as the ball hits the basket or background, the play- ers 1nay enter the ·free trial lane. This is an itnproverri.ent in that the tin1e for entering the lanes is specific· and not optional with the referee. Other good points about the rules are that interference of any sort witl1 a n1.·an closer ' '. ,I .. :,,j

, I 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. to the goal and throwing for a basket (this does not include interference with the ball) is strictly forbidden. In fact all play by bodily contact is discouraged as much as possible for practically the only legal way to gua;rd is to play the ball. ROSECRANS ELE·CTED FOOTBALl, CAPTAIN. At the final me~ting of the football team held Thursday, November 18, Wilfred Mas- ten Rosecrans was elected captain for the season of 1916-11(. His only competitor was Wall ace Girling. Rosecrans, more familiarly known as \Tubby\, is a Phi Delta Theta man. He has been active in athletics at lJnion since 1913, when he began his football career, being manager of the freshman team. He has play- ed on the 'varsity team each year, winning his \U'~ each season. He won his \U\ on the 'varsity baseball team in 1913, playing also on the fresh1nan team in 1913, and on the sophomore team, the following year. He was also captain of the sophomore basket- ball team. vVhen interviewed \Tubby'' was very dumb concerning his own efforts, but stated that he believed Union had plenty of excel- lent football material for next season, and he protnises to have a \corking\ team. Unfortunately the report of Mtr. Rose-~ ' crans' election was received a short time too late for our last issue. UNION'S FOOTBALL WARRIORS HONORED Entertained at Delta Phi House-Prospects for New Year Promising. Union College celebrated its football sea- son recently at a srnoker at the Delta Phi house. This is the third year the smoker for the football team has been given, differ- ent fraternities entertaining in turn. Nearly two hundred attended at different times dur·- ing the evening and enjoyed the \feed\ and \smokes.\ The season has been one of the best in recent years and the meeting was full of en- thusiasm for the season's record and con- fidence for the coming year. All the speak- ers, who were introduced by Foster Brown, seemed to echo this sentiment. Captain Zimmer, who welcomed the men to the Delta Phi house, held out high hopes for the bas- ketball season. Gene Hummer, captain of the baseball team, and \Tubby\ Rosecrans, the captain- elect of the football team, both promised good teams. In baseball and to a less de- gree in football, there a1re losses to the 'var- sity by graduation, but there seems to be plenty of material to fill the gaps. Prof. Eioward Opdyke, the faculty advisor in ath- letics, and Meade Brunet, manager of foot- ball, spoke to the same effect. THE SOIREE. The Soiree, the big event of the social sea- son before the Christmas holidays, tak~s place tomorrow evening, and promises to be one of the best in years. Europe's Orches- tra has been secured for the occasion, and the rest of the evening will be up to the high plane of the music. It is up to everybody to get together and n1ake the support equal the efforts of the committee. The patron- esses are: Mrs. C. J.f\_. Richmond, Mrs. E. E. Ellery, Mrs. J\1. A. King, Mr-s. C. F. F. Garis, Mrs. C. l\... Waldron, Miss Annie Beattie, JVIrs. F. 'r ander Bogert, Mrs. T. Boyles, Mrs. C. Potter, Mrs. J. Clements, Mrs. A. Dilling- ham, 1\frs. Atkinson, Mrs. C. Hallock, Mrs. E. P. Edwards, Mrs. Verne Travis, Mrs. C. Stern, Mrs~ vVeinert, Mrs. Griffith, Mrs. E. R. Cullings, Mrs. P. S. Dorion, Mrs. George Trreux, Mrs. F. Huntington, Mrs. 0. E. Frasier, Mrs. A. J. Schuyler, 1\!Irs. R. E. Argersinger, Mrs. E. R. Whitney, Mrs. H. G. Glenn, M·rs. C. V. Ferguson,· Mrs. W. Hanson, Mrs. J. Yelverton. During vacation we have met the enemy and we are Hers.- Targum. • al K p y< ta fi.l w w ar A: gr ne th ta1 gr Cl fif ga ev~ re1 Pa ev~ - t the Iar for po1 far tho wa: \Vo· con He ant .An, hac dis] Etu Pac

. 1n n- n- k- n, . 1n ta .s- tll n- ~d e- .r- )e >f. h- a- es )e s- ld rh ) ly al n- 8. .s, e, ·s. ·s. ·s. ). f. v. ty THE C'ONCORDIENSIS 11 DEATH OF MR. PAIGE. Union lost one of her most distinguished alumni when on last Saturday night John }(eyes Paige passed into eternal rest. Mr. Paige was born in Albany seventy-two years ago. In 1857 he moved to Schenec- tady, where he received his early education, finally g~raduating from Union in 1865, nt which time he received an A. B. degree. J-le was a member of the Delta Phi fraternity and the Phi Beta Kappa society, and played Alma 1\1ater fifty-three times at the annual graduation exercises of Union College. Mr. Paige served as postmaster of Sche- nectady from 1885 to 1890, was interested in the Alp any Stove Works, and the Schenec- tady Stove Company. He was a high de- gree I\1ason and a vestryman of St. George's Church, of which he was the organist for fifty consecutive years. He has been a dele- gate to the Albany Diocesan convention ever since its creation forty-seven years ago. We will miss his genial face, not only at reunions but at all times, for John Keyes Paige V\\'\as one of the most loyal sons who ever entered the Old Blue Gate. PADEREWSKICONCERT Those who missed the concert given in the gymnasium November 19 by Mr. Ignace Ian Paderewski probably had good reasons for doing so, but they missed the most itn- portant n1usical event of the season thus far. He is still the supren1e 1naster and al- though the piano which was furnished hin1 was not all that could be desired (one pedal \Vould not work), he nevertheless gave a concert which was extremely intellectual. He opened with the trernendous Schubert antasia which develops from a very brilliant J\llegroeon fuoro through two tnovements back to an allegro. The marvelous technique displayed in the rendering of this and the Etudes Symphoniques of Schumann makes Padetewski the artist he is. In his nutnbers from Chopin, the charming Etude which so many attempt and which Zeisler played here last year, was especially appreciated by the audience. He also played Chopin's well known Military Polonaise. The last num- ber, Leszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 13, was a splendid ending for a extraordinary program. He was generous with his encores, playing altogether four. Dolls and photographs were sold directly after the concert fo.r the benefit of the Polish Fund. PRESS CLUB. A new plan and one which, it is hoped, will arouse g;reater interest in the work of the Press Cl~ub, was made at the last meet- ing by members of the club. It was decided that at the close of each college year, no more than four seniors will be chosen. Th ev are to be selected in order of merit from the members of the Press Club, who are to be considered Honor Men. The nan1es of those chosen will be read at each regulwr meeting of the club :£or two years after their grad- uation. The Press Club has at last secured a nevv Underwood typewriter, which, it is expected, will add to the efficiency of its members. GARNET NEWS. 1917 Year Book Promises to Be a Good One. The 1917 Garnet Board has organized and plans are already considerably advanced for the publication of the best year book old Union has ever seen. The work is in cha:rge of Harold Sammons, editor-in-chief, and Ern- est Mandeville, business manager. The rest of the board is as follows: Assistant business manager, John In1rie; athletic editor, Elliot V. Jones; art editor, Isaac Cletnents; literary editor, Arthur I-Iallock; secreta1ry, Hugh \Villian1s; and Leslie Edgerton, Phil Downs, Ashley Meade, Albert Hawn, Leon Walrath and Jacob Frankel associate editors. lr !

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. The position of editor-in-chief after this year will not be passed from house to house as in former years but will be open to com- petition as are the managerships. BRITISH LIEUTE.N ANT WILL SPEAK AT UNION. Lieutenant Shane Leslie of the British ambulance corps will speak to the Union College student body on Saturday of this week. Lieutenant Leslie has seen service on several of the wa'r fronts and his exper- iences are said to form a most interesting story. He will speak in the parish house of St. George's Church Friday night, and Dr. C. A. Richmond was therefore able to get him to describe actual conditions in Europe to the student body. Because of this lec- ture the chapel exercises will be held at noon Saturday instead of at 7:45 o'clock, as is customary. LOCAL MEN INVITED BY FORD TO STOP WAR. Prexy and Others Decline. Prexy received a telegratn on Monday, November 29, inviting him to be one of :Henry Ford's guests on his trip to Europe, a trip having for its purpose the instigation of peace negotiations. An in1mediate tele- graphic reply was sent by Prexy declining the invitation. The reason given was that college duties interfered. Other prominent Schenectadians who re- ceived similar invitations and who also de- clined are Dr. Steinn1etz and Dr. Lunn. Jeff Delchamps '15, the Concordy's live wire editor. we understand, has declined a simi- lar invitation to sail with 1\d:r. Ford. TO CONCORDIENSIS READERS. The editor of the Concordiensis respect- fully calls to the attention of our readers the belo'v given communication from the \Dollar Christmas Fund for Destitute Bel- gians.\ \Vhatever you give will be grate- fully received and wisely expended. The sutfering and f<)rtitude of these unfortunate people should co1nmend the sympathy of us all in some vvay more tangible than good wishes and good-for-nothing weeping. Send all contributions early. To the Editor: Sir: In answer to enquiries from readers, permit me to state that the Dollar Christ- mas Fnnd for Destitute Belgians vvill re- main open until the end of December and that all donations entrusted to me as Treas- ure·r care of I-Ienry Clews & Co., Broad St., New York, will be most gratefully acknowl- edged. America has been spared the horrors of war; we have been greatly blessed, and to quote the words of our President in his Thanksgiving Proclamation last year, \It has been vouchsafed to us in part to succor the suffering.\ To those who have not yet given I make a very earnest appeal to send a donation to aid the old men, the frail women and the orphans of war in stricken Belgium. No 1nan's Christmas this year will be less happy because he has reme1nhered to help those 1vho are too poor to help themselves. Contributions to date are not so numer- ous as last year and the need is even great- er. This is the last call from the Dolla;r Christ- mas Fund. Do not pass it by! Yours very tr~ly, HENRY CLEWS, ·1'reasurer of the Dollar Christmas Fund, Broad Street, New Yor~. '18: \):. ou want to keep your eyes open around here today. '18 (thinking of Frosh banquet) : \What for?\ '19 : \Because people will think you a darn fool if you go around with them shut.\

us of to . or to rn THE CON·CORDIENSIS 13 DR. RICHMOND TO ATTEND UNION ALUMNI MEETINGS. Prexy will be out of town most of next week. Following his trip to New York to- day, when he will be the guest of honor at the dinner of the New York alumni, he will leave fo,r the· West. On his western trip he will first attend the annual dinner of the Buffalo ~A.lumni Association, December 13. On the 14th he will attend the Detroit alumni dinner, and the following day the Chicago men's dinner. On his return, he 'vill go to the alumni luncheon of the Cleve- land association. UNDERCLASS DEBATERS CHOSEN. l\1onday afternoon with Prof. McKean and the speakers of the 'varsity team, Brown, Sternfeld and Jacobs acting as judges, the following men were chosen to represent the sophomores in the underclass debate : Lewis Anker, Albany; Leslie S. Uphoff, Schenec- tady; Spencer B. Eddy, Saratoga, third speaker and captain; and Marvin I. King, alternate. Tuesday the freshman team was picked. 'rhe men chosen are : Charles B rind, Al- bany; Peters, Schenectady; A. D. Greene, Schenectady, third speaker and captain; and Watts of Schenectady, alternate. COSMOPOLITAN CLUB. Tuesday night Prof. Atkinson entertain- ed the Cosmopolitan Club with a talk on his recent trip to Europe. This trip took in Spain, France and Portugal. The club is starting well this year and has six new members. It is the plan of the clnb this year to give evening entertainments by races. Thus there will be a Brazil evening,· a North American evening, an India evening and so on. At the last meeting there were twenty- two members present. THE PARTHENON. The editor of the Concordy has received from President Richmond two copies of the \Parthenon Union's publication in the old days. The Parthenon was published semi- n1onthly by the students of Union College and bore on its front cover the classic 1notto: \T . d. enu1 musam me 1tamur avena.\ The numbers at hand are dated May 15, and July 15, 1847. The forn1er number appears to have been the first one after the Parthenon's Renaissance, since an introductory note states that \the Parthenon or Academian's 1fagazine was published at Union College during the years 1832, 3 and 4.\ The Parthe- non was purely a literary magazine and the quality as well as the quantity of literary work done at Union at that time was truly amazing. The first issue contained thirty- two pages of reading matter and the fourth sixty-four. A few titles of the articles printed will serve to sho~r the scope of the work done by . this remarkable magazine. 1~heY' are as follows: \The Rhetoric o.f the Bible,\ \The Transcendent Excellence of Genuine Republican Government,\ \Druidi- cal Remains,\ \The Third Satire of J uvenal\ (a translation, review and criticism), \Poe- try-Its Effects,\ \Our National Litera- ture,\ \Truth and Expediency.\ These copies of the Parthenon were given President Richmond by Mrs. C. A .. Waldron, wife of the \loyal alumnus,\ to whom the br()nze tablet at the side door of the chapel is dedicated. The Parthenon appears to have had three distinct periods in its life. The first con- tained two volumes and continued during 1832, '33 and '34; the second, three volumes, beginning in 1847, and the third and last ' three volumes printed· during 1896, '97, '98 and '99. Early to bed and early to rise, Ruins my temper and gums up my eyes. -Ex.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS VESPERS. The Rev. H. H. Mua:-dock of the First 1\f. E. Church of An1sterdam was the speak- er at Sunday vespers. The main idea of the talk was that a good Christian man should. be a fighter, not against his fellow men but against vice and corruption. The attendance was somewhat better than :usual, but even so, the small number was a positive discourtesy to the speaker. CREBLE ENTERTAINS CLASSICAL CLUB. Dr. Fobes to Re.ad Paper on Oxford Life. The Classical Club held its regular meet- ing Tuesday, November 30. Prof. Ben- nett gave an opening address in Greek in which he related a number of interesting facts concerning the recent Classical con- veption held at Rochester, N. Y. Creble '] 6 read a paper entitled \The Alexandrine 11overpent in Catullus,\ in which he told about the great revival of learning dwring the reign of Alexander and its influence on Greek and Roman literature. He gave in brief the life of Catullus and the political condition of Ro1ne at this period. Some noticeable characteristics of the works of Catullus were pointed out and translations of portions of sqnle of his best poe1ns were read. D'r. Kellogg n1ade a few re1narks 011 this same subject taking up in detail the structure and peculiarities o.f the verse. To illustrate more fully his points, he read ex- tracts from papers which he had forn1erly written. The next n1eeting will be held Tues- day, December 14,_at which ti1ne Dr. Fobes will tell of the \Life at Oxford.\ It is hoped that the students will support this meeting as the subject should be of interest to all. Germany has no cause to brag about her submarines. England, take it from Davy Jones, will soon have the greatest subtnar- ine-say it slow- fleet in the world-\Spec.'' SIGMA XI HOLDS INTERESTING MEETING. Dr. Albert Warren Ferris Talks on \Recov- ery of the Saratoga Springs.\ The Theta Chapter of the Sigma Xi So- ciety held the second open meeting of the school year on the evening of December seventh in the lecture room of the Depart- n1ent of Chemistry. Dr. Albert Warren Ferris, medical expert of the Saratoga Reservation Commission was the speaker. He gave a very interesting talk on the uRe- covery of the Saratoga Springs.\ Dr. Fer- ris said in part: . \The first white man to see the Springs was a Jesuit missionary, in 1643. Sir Wil- liam Johnson, wounded in a military en- gagement in 1767 was the first to 1 take the cure.' Six or eight years later, General Schuyler went there. 'rhe first hotel was erected in 1804. This and numerous others were destroyed by Indians. Later the town grevv. It offered little dissipation and some gambling, then m-ore of both. John Moris- sey, a gambler, built a great gaming house. f-Ie offered to g-ive it to the people of the town for ·y. M. C. A. purposes if they would leave hi1n unmolested for twelve years. J-le didn't live to carry out his plan. The fatnous Congress Spring was discov- ered in 1792. Gan1bling and fashion rose and fell. Resorts are no longer fashionable for whole seasons. People nowadays go auto-touring and stop two or three days at each of three dozen places during a sum- mer. _.L\bout twenty-one years ago the chemist jn charge saved the carbon dioxid wasted at the Star Spring. People bored for the gas. Naturally the springs cease·d to flow after one hundred borings had been made. The gas is thought to be the result of the roast- ing of limestone by prehistoric volcanoes. 'rhe evidence of vulcanism apparent in Saratoga today is the Northumberland plug. The source of the spring-~ 1s thoug-ht to b a n g b: . n: p: m UJ at 1 • 01 T b< 'r G re Ot ca vc \i\i tl( su fa: ei1 an foJ ve . gn vvl sw ha gn StE Th ed . Wl. go, th< we t

e r . s . THE :c:ONCORDIENSIS 15 be rain water. Water plus the gas giv,es an acid n1ixture which corrodes and honey- cotnbs the rocks. All the springs are potable. There are many varieties. Some contain 300 milli ... gra1ns salt per liter, othe.rs 10,000 miliigrams bicarbonate of soda. Some contain lith- ium. Lithia waters used to be ignorantly prescribed for uric acid troubles, but it is now known that lithiu.m salts have no real medicinal value. The waters are classifiable under four heads: (1) 1~·he alkaline cath- artic. These contain sodi urn chloride and bicarbonate. (2) The alkaline salines. These are useful in acid conditions of the body, gout, rheumatism and arthritis. (3) 'rable waters. These are exemplified in the Geyser, Minnonebe. They are slightly diu- retic, that's all. ( 4) The alkaline ferrugin- ous. ~\fhese contain iron salts with the bi- carbonate. One spring contains at its mouth five volumes of gas to each volume of water. Water retains two to three volumes as bot- tled. This is equivalent to 40-50 lbs. pres- sure. More would burst the bottles. Hardening of the arteries is a result of too fast living. Tpen the blood must burst either the arteries or the heart. Apoplexy and heart trouble a~re the common names for these diseases. The waters are found very useful in keeping the arteries soft and giving old topers a new lease on life. The question is often asked: \Is it worth vvhile to conserve these springs?\ The an- Svver is positive and affirn1ative. Thousands have been cured. The state eliminated a great amount of scandal and graft when it stepped in and bought up lands and springs. The state has paid out $770,000 and is bond- ed to the extent of $830,000 more. It dealt with 45-50 diffe1rent property ovvners. A good deal more money must be spent. Ten thousand gallons of gas go to waste per week. This must be saved. The value of the springs is 1nanifold. Mountain breezes blow on three sides, yet Saratoga is only 320 feet above sea level. These are right conditions for cardia! and arterial diseases. One hundred days of sleighing each winter means there is no dust in the air in this season. Everything is salubrious. There are four good reasons why a person seeking the cure should go to Sara- toga rather than to Nanhei1n, Germany: (1) A six weeks' \cure\ costs $1,000 more in Germany. (2) Climate is so much mild- er and healthier here. (3) There is no language difficulty here. ( 4) Here there is variety of play: Golf, archery, sleighing, skating, tobogganing. MR. CASEY LECTURES ON MILK HANDLING. Wednesday evening, December 8, Mr. Ed- ward H. Casey, milk inspector of this city, gave an interesting lecture in the Chemistry lecture room on the handling of milk from producer to consumer. Much improvement has been made in the last few years in this matter, Schenectady being one of the lead- ing cities in the move1nent. Stereopticon vieV\rs showed the superiority of the new method over the old. The lecture vvas well attended and was both interesting and instructive. PRESS CLUB CALENDARS OUT. \A Thing of Beauty.\ The 1915 Press Club calendars are out. Chairn1.an Elmore and the con1mittee are to be con1.rnended, for the calendar certainly far surpasses any that has eve1r been put out by the Press Club. The calendar, which \vas printed by the E. A. Wright Con1pany of PhHadelphia, has an etnbossed leather co\?er. and contains cuts of all the athletic te~n1s and fraternity groups. The calendars may be had at any of the fraternity houses or in the college office for seventy-five cents. Don't fail to get ont'. Tt is just the thing for a Christlnas gift. ,, ' ~. '

16 THE CONCORDlENSIS ENGLrSH CLU.B. Hears Paper on Whittier by Dr. Chase. The first of a series of papers on Ameri- can writers was given by Dr. Chase at the last meeting of the :English Club. The sub- ject of the paper was Whittier. Dr. Chase traced the famous poet's life, giving a very interesting account of his work in politics and in anti-slavery movements, and finally speaking of him as a representative Ameri- can or especially, New England poet. After the reading, the paper was in- formally· discussed at some length by the club members. Arrangements are now being made for the annual Christmas tree 'vhich the club wi11 hold soon. UNION'S NEWEST CLUB BUSY. Live Wires in the Wireless. The new Radio Club held its third meet- ing last ~Friday night in the electrical labora- tory. Mercer '16, delivered a very interest- ing paper on the general subject of radio communication, giving an account of its de- velopntent, and explaining the theory of operation. An informal discussion followed the reading. In the station, the quarter kilowatt set has already been put into operation, and communication established with several amateurs in Schenectady and Albany. Much \vork has to be done yet, though, before the high power set will be in commission, but preliminary tests wiJl probably be made the latter part of this week. All men who are interested in radio tele- graphy and desire to become members of the club are again urged to report at the station any afternoon. At 3 :30, on Tuesday and F·riday afternoons regular classes in code instruction will be lteld in the laboratory by licensed commercia! operators. 'rhese classes will be open to any student who wants to enter. INTERFRATERNITY CONFERENCE . . Draws Up New Rules for Rushing. The last meeting of the Interfraternity Conference was held Tuesday, November the thirtieth. A new plan regarding the rushing of fresh1nan was discussed and will be submitted to each fraternity before going into effect. This plan calls for the appoint- n1ent of a junior from the neutral body who vvill prepare records of all entering fresh- tnen and will be able to submit any informa- tion concerning these freshmen whenever called upon by the fraternities. This man is to be paid one dollar a day for the eight days preceding the opening of the fall term. It was also decided to resume the Inter- fraternity Tennis Tournament in the spring, the trophy to be awarded at that time. The Interf,raternity Conference will con- duct the dances held after the basketball games this winter as last, the proceeds go- ing for bleachers in the gym. THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH. The old files of the Schenectady Gazette furnish many interesting contrasts and com- parisons between life on the Hill to-day and in former times. The ancient rivalry between Union and Hamilton is reflected in an item of the issue for June 10, 1879, noticing a re-- turn game with Hamilton which it was ex- pected would be played at Utica, and the prowess of our tean1 in those days is shown by the comment, \Union elated by the . recent victory feels confident of winning the 'rubber.' \ That the heat of class politics was the san1e as at present, but for an office which in these days usually goes begging, the fol- lovving excerpt establishes: \In the sopho- tnore elections yesterday Mr. Can1eron was chosen to fill the place of historian, left vacant by Mr. Shead. The contest over this office has been long and exciting, but the class has secured a man who will most d< 01 m A . 1n ci w de h~ tc Cl hi '\\ P- T u tl t;; l o: 0 t] b a c: v F

11 11 y d n e 11 h THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 exceHently fill the position.\ A decided contrast between the \good old days'' and these strenuous times is brought out by the news that: \There is n:ot very much hard work nowadays on the 'Hill.' All the classes are taking it easy in this interval of calm which precedes the t~rm examinations.\ The efforts being put forth to form a rifle club make it of interest to know tha.t there was such an organization here in '79 which defeated the Amherst Aggies in a match held here, by the score of 201-191. Mr. Willis T. Hanson, }r., has turned over to Charley Waldron a picture of a six oared crew which he found in the attic of his home in this city. The faces of the oarsn1en were not recognizable, so ancient was the photo graph and so encrusted with dust. The picture was sent down to White to touch up in the hope that the identity of some of those seated in the craft might be ascer- tained. The scarcity of known facts about the Union crew has made it largely a subject of tradition rather than history. Few relics of it are extant. It is thought that possibly the shell shown in this picture is in the basernent of the round building. Tl1ere are a few sculls in various other places on th~ campus. UNPREPARED . \TV e have had warnings enough- yet some \rill gape with surprise When the storm breaks, when the bolt falls Out of the wild, black skies. There have been threats and o1nens-. Yet wordy and idle we wait, And the blind chief and the led fool, \\Then it comes, will gabble of \fate.\ And it ~rill not come this week, And it may not come next year, But as ·death sure and as hell red A time of trial draws near. Then our youth will go down to the dust, Corps upon shattered corps, All our brave youth to a rat's death, For we scorned to teach them war. Raw from the field and shop, Untrained and doomed and brave, Will our young men, will our best men, Go murdered to the grave. We have talked at length of freedom, We have vaunted a high ideal- But the glib phrase is a weak shield To turn a tyrant's steel. We have bragged that we stood for justice And the reign of right on earth- But a bold dream needs a strong arm To give it weight and worth. And here is no doubt nor chance, But a tested thing and known ; 1'hat men stand up or men sink shamed, And the choice is theirs alone. We have had warnings and warnings But fools will gasp with surprise When the wind shrieks and the bolts crash Out of the reeling skies. -From The Sun. COME, LET US GO TO THE LAND. Co1ne-let us go to the land Where the violets grow! Let's go thither hand in hand, Over the waters and over the snow, To the land where the sweet, sweet violets grow! There, in the beautiful south, Where the sweet flowers lieJ Thou shalt sing, with thy sweeter mouth, Under the light of the evening sky, That love never fades, though violets die! -Barry Cornwall.

·Iii . I ; ! d 'I ... !i ,,, i!. 18 THE CO·NCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubHshed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., atS Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, '16 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W M Gilbert '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. \v.' Porter, ''17 H. R. Kni?ht, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, 17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Ernest W. M andevHle, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. THE SOIREE. The social standard of a college is fully as in1portant as its athletic standard. While our college social activities in the past sev- eral years have become more and more suc- cessful, there remains much roo1n for itn- provement. A decidedly progressive step seems to have been taken this year in re- nloving the Sophomore Soiree from Junior Week and n1aking a separate event of it. A11 signs point toward a decided success tomor- row night; with a good con1mittee at its back and the indications of Union's social awakening in the air, it should boost our standard a long way upvvard towards the desired point. BASKE§r BALL. On the eve of basket ball season, the future shows a very strong schedule ahead and a 'varsity of unknown calibre. We expect, of course, that with a nucleus of two regulars and the excellent material on hand, Coach Dawson will turn out a good team-not equal to last year's great five, but neverthe- less one that will fittingly represent Union. In the football season just closed, we savv how over-confidence of the student body re- flected itself in the team and undoubtedly caused a poorer season that we should have had. There will be no over-confidence in the basket ball team,. but there is some danger of things swinging over to the other extre1ne if the season starts with one or two defeats. The season brings a great opportuni.ty for the students to atone for their past mistakes and show intelligent support. Avoid too 1nuch confidence if we make a winning start, keep an equal distance from despair if we don't, and the team will do us all justice. DEBATE WITH WILLIAMS. One week fro1n tonight we debate Wil- liams College in the chapel. We strongly urge a large student attendance. Williams will, of course, put a strong team on the stage and they will be met by what promises to be the best team Union has had in present un- dergraduate memory. Assuming debating relations with vVilliams is another step to- ·wards our desire to have intercollegiate con- nection of all kinds with the best colleges in the country; we therefore 1nust beat then1 and prove ourselves opponents worthy of future consideration. It will undoubtedly be the best hom·e debate of recent seasons- and we will win. The attendance should be worthy the magnitude of the event. Y. M. C. A. A:N\D THE WAR. It is a significant thing that the work of lfi we: lat of tn: . ClCl a 1 caJ as en of S04 ca] . 1ca . 1n~ th< as~ . ln~ . lffi pr< he] th<: by Re J wr: vel ant $1,1 Co: 1, pre aut Mi

s t THE CQN:CORDIENSIS 19 the World's Student Christian Federation is being carried on in every European country in spite of the devastating results of the war. From nearly every university in Eng- land, France, Russia and Germany fully haH of the enrollment has le·ft to enter the trenches and, as a result, the Christian Asso- ciations have in many instances dwindled to a mere handful of men who are still bravelv \' car,rying on the work of preserving, as much as possible, the Christian bonds now so sev- erely strained. The needs and opportunities of ou'r fellow students in the Christian As- sociations of Europe present an irresistible call to the students and professors of Amer- ica. Many of the associations in this coun- try are raising a generous, unselfish offer .. ing to send to the most needy associations in the war countries-· an action which our local association should join in with. The secur- ing of money, however, seems to us of less importance than the n1aintenance of the proper, year-around fellowship which we held before the war with our brothers across the sea. The editorials in this issue were written by H. Ralph Knight, '17. ACTRESS OFFERS PRIZE. Reward From Grace George for Best Student Play. As an encouragement to college play- wrights and at the same time to secure a vehicle for herself, Miss Grace George has announced that she would donate a prize of $1,000 for the best play that an American College student submits to her before June 1, 1916. Miss George's offer includes the production of the play and royalties to the author according to regular ar,rangements. Miss George will appear in the play support- ed by her own company in the Playhouse, New York City. According to the conditions of the contest, the subject must be American, modern and the author must be a bona fide under- graduate in an American college or univer- sity up to the time the contest closes. Faculty app)roval is required of each student before he may become a contestant. Miss George says of the contest: ''I hope to hear from every college where there is a man who can write a good play. I believe that the hest plays of the future are coming from college men, particularly our best comedies, and it is in comedies that I am most interested.'' Kappa Alpha entertained at a dinner dance Saturday night. The patronesses were Mrs. W. C. Yates and Mrs. Horace H. Trumbull. DEATHS DUE TO FOOT- BALL TOTAL 15. Despite the general improvement in the playing of intercollegiate football, gridiron fatalities for this season approached the average casualty list for the last 15 years. The total this year is 15, as against 13 last year, 14 in 1913, 13 in 1912, and 11 in 1911. The figures show that the game is not one for imn1ature players. Only three college men were fatally injured, and among these there was only one seasoned player, Captain Scott of the Knox College team. The other t''ro were practically beginners, and all the rest belonged to preparatory school or in- dependent elevens. The average age is 17 1-5 years, the youngest being 11 years old. F\l\om the reports it is evident that the victin1s in the great majority of cases had not been examined for physical fitness. Oberlin is said to be now the wealthiest college in the world. An alumnus recently donated $3,000,000 to the institution.

l- , I . i 20 THE CONCORDIENSIS Ql\ SOCIETY NOTES. Society look'S forward to the coming week as one of the most important in the local season. The premier specialists of the city have put their all into feature creations which they have de- signed to be worn by leading women of the four hundred. The House of Marie, Fifth Avenue and Jay Street, has placed radical reforms in the lines of a gown to be worn by Miss Louce Morrals at the Friday tea-ball in the ball room of the Hotel Gymnasia. Extremely oShort and full is this smart mode, of rose corduroy and made sharply mili- tary with panels of brown and navy chiffon luxuriantly tufted with coral ornaments and vel- vet bows. The model is gathered rakishly at the waist with tucked Georgette crepe which extends upward behind and buttons at the neck with hand-embroidered crochet buttons. The military boot, of Copenhagen shade and shirred at the ankle with white clox, will be worn with this creation. Another highly oSmart mode was im- agined by Lucy, 211 South Center Street, to be worn by Miss Spring-Waters at the same func- tion. It is formed of imported olive-green broad- cloth and is trimmed with shoe leather and Jac- quard figures in platinum. There is a bodice of Persian lamb, skunk-trimmed, and a ruff of royal purple eagle feathers. The skirt is modishly -spattered with futurist figures in silk maline lace and orange velvet, while buttons of imitation. pearl spiral from the waist to the hem of the skirt . For the lesser functions of the week, blouses of old red camel's hair -serge trimmed with military braiding will be the dt;rnier cri. Miss Startlyng Rekkard has ordered a special evening coat of coque feathers over net. Miss Getthare Sum- waeigh will appear at an afternoon function in a suit of yellow Pompadour silk with cream lace fichu piping forming the word \Union\ on the hack of the coat. For this occasion, her hat, de- signed by Souix, will be a Prus-sian helmet of chif- fon over net trimn1ed with mosquito feathers and haseball bats. None of the Funny Men have yet said that Yale played against a great Mahandicap. While ~he Albanians how 1 on and on fo( their Deeper, G-rander Hudson, we can't help feeling that there's something sedimental about the whole tbiJTg. Were -we not fearful of jeopardizing our ama- teur standing a.g a colymnist, we would elaborate a little oa :England's failure to have Turkey for Thanksg-iv-ing, TH!B! 1MPRESSARIO'S COMPLAINT 'To the Tune of Manda.lay. (With the usual apologies to Mr. Kipling.) By the California beaches lookin' westward to the s~a There's a prima donna stan din' and she doesn't th io.k of me, For the '\Flickers\ are a riot and the managers they -say: \Come yon west, you Geraldine, oh, come and make a photoplay!\ Chorus: On the roetd to Frisco Bay Where th. e movie actors play, It's a land. ()£ 1nilk and honey for the stars of 131'oadway- On the roa.d to Frisco Bay. Don't y<>t1 fret about the pay. Where tiJe six-reel :filn1s roll onward out to Cnin:a 'cross the Bay. Her costumes they are fihny, and -she has a golden thr<>at- t Plucky- Lot they care for n1usic-they can't \reg- ister\ a note) But she's learning now in Frisco what the con- tra;Ct-blank oft tells- When y()Jtt've heard the movies callin', you won•t never held aught else. Chorus: On the road to Frisco Bay Far frotn sumn1er-parched Broadway There sh.e\-s smokin' of Miss Carn1en's cigarettes in photoplay She's betempted for to oStay, Th ougl:I ibe music-lovers pray, '' Con1e y-ott back, you lovely Farrar~ come you hack: to old Broadway. HAFIZ. ] Co an thi ng \H ~ tha at pre In arc car \pt go( to be sut the ' Ma as ha< he dif: sm the . '810 the difj tn alit Jar sha lea1 the sue I Ed wit abi sta: mu nst Na Do Th1 an( wit evi1 to boc

e g e rs of to en THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. Mr. James Crane, of· the Crane-Shirley Stock Co., expressed great disapproval of the way we are conducting the Smash. We are, he said, saying things about hi'S company which we have no .right to say. Also, the name of the theater is \Hudson not \Mudhawk.\ When we inaugurated the Smash, we stated that we would make it as far a'S was in our power a truthful review of the local theaters, giving each production all the credit it was due-but not more. In our criticisrns we attempt to take as a stand- ard the best work that is being put on the Ameri- can stage. We do not take the point ·of view of \pretty good show for Schenectady,\ or \pretty good for the price.\ If we seem to our readers to take an erroneous 'Stand at any time, we will be glad to hear and weigh their views on the subject, providing they are not connected with the show in question. V\/e \Saw their performance of the \Lottery Man\ one night last week and it occurred to us as we entered the theater that, if the management had put as much pains in selecting the cast as he had in clothing the ushers there would be a different story to tell. We were not moved to smile at any time during the humorous lines of the play, but felt very tnirthful during the occa- sional serious scenes. From beginning to end the piece seemed to us flat and lifeless. It is difficult to place a finger on any one transgressor in the cast, because they all appear pretty much alike-wholly unable to rise to their parts. James Crane and Blanche Shirley do not over- shadow the other-s except in that they have the leading roles. We are sorry if Mr. Crane doest1't care for the name \Mudhawk~' and refuse to quibble over such a trifle. * * * * In line with our suggestions, ''Very Good Eddie\ opened in Cincinnati on November 30 with the cast changed to bring in better singing ability. Carl Gantvoort, a.g we predicted, did not stay, being succeeded by John Willard, who is much better adapted to the part in that he can rise to his spoken lines as well as sing. Florence Nash was superseded by Alice Dovey. Miss Dovey starred in \Hands Up\ at the 44th Street Theater all last summer with considerable success and wil1 fit in much better than Nash would have with her weak voice. \Very Good Eddie\ will evidently not open at the Princes'S for some time to come, as the theater now has a five weeks' booking of movies. * * * * Elizabeth Marbury, who produced \Very Good Eddie,\ is following close on its heels with another musical piece. It is :called \Fully That,\ and will open in New Y.ork during Christmas week after a trial sern ewhere in the provinces-we could not learn wher-e. The ca-st ·will include Maurice and Walton, Maurice Farkoa and Melville Ellis. It has been writ.t~Cn by Guy Bolton and P. G. Wode~ house, witll music by the prolific Jerome Kern. * * * * vVilliam Faversham in \The Hawk\ at the Van fully lived up to his standard set in \Julius Caesar\ and \The Faun,\ and brought a com- pany with him that was, with one or two excep- tions, very good. It seemed unfortunate that Ar- leen Hackett, who played opposite him, had to be the weakest spot in the cast. \The Hawk,\ a French triangle play, presented a triangle of which l.fr. Faversham proved to be a very prominent apex and Miss Hackett and H. E. Herbert a very lowly base. The latter two were markedly be- low the standard of Faversham and the rest of the company. * * * * We unhesitatingly predict that \Katinka which :first-nighted in the Van Monday, will go very well in New York. Arthur Hammerstein's sec- ond at~empt at musical comedy production eclip.ges his first work in \High Jinks.\ Rudolph Friml at i:lle musical helm of a piece these days is usually reason enough for its success, but with the best of Hauerbach books and lyrics, a well- balanced cGLst in most re-spects, a larger slice than usual of tbe country's pretty girls, and lavishness in setting that beats the very lavish musical con1edy standard, its rosy future on Broadway i'S doubly secure. The balancing of the cast tips away from the comedian'S. Franklin Ardell in the leading comedy role doesn't fit and, were it not for the rescu:e work of the eccentric Rollins, who uses the same business which he did in \Over- Night,\ the department would fall very flat in- deed. Arden was picked for the \Family Cup- board,\ a slap-stick vaudeville act which played Hatnmersi:ein's Victoria la-st November. From an unconfir111 ed source, we hear that Ardell's role vvas originally thought of as belonging to Ray- mond Hitchcock, though why he did not take it we coulcl not learn. The comedian's first en- trance ,x;itrr the full chorus strengthens our he- lief that the part was thought of as Hitchcock's. He would have holstered up the role mightily with hi'S q11aint dryness, and it's a pity he is not in it .

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS The bigh light of the cast is Adele Rollins; ner meteor~i c rise to fame in ''The Only Girl,\ last winter and her subsequent starring in \Nobody- ·Home\\ which demonstrated that she could shine in the best of company, told Hammerstein right- ly tha.t she would be a very favorable as.get to \Katink:a.\ While in a less prominent part than last y-ear she nevertheless towers head and shoulders above the other female leads. May- Nauda.in, playing \Katiuka will be remembered in her last stage appearance as a \Star in the \Girls of Guttenburg,\ in which she was success- ful in more ways than one, her fame bringing her a hushand in the. person of C. L. Gebrge, the weahby- New York broker and society man. Hamtnerstein had cast about for tSome time for a likely- person for the part, and was overjoyed when }.{rs. George obtained her husband's consent to her return to the stage. She still has her ex- cellent voice, but lacks her youthful good looks and li-veliness. AtS the piece proceeded we were very much disappointed to see Nini Napier be- conie J.()st in the obscurity of the chorus after the fine impression her lines allowed her to make in the o].)ening action. Her beauty is of a distinctive type~ sh.e has an excellent voice and a good stage preseiLce, and would have made good in a better part. \-Ve expect to see her rise in the ranks of light opera in the future. Edith Decker aired her good voice to advantage in the latter part of the piece. Norma Mendoza, as Katinka's mother, n1ade as much of her part as one could ask. Count Lorrie Grimaldi accented his lines and sang well as the Russian ambas-sador. We would have en- joyed Lawrence Haynes' tenor much more if he head been a trifle less self-conscious. Friml's music equals, but does not exceed, his previous work in \Naughty Marietta,\ \High Jinks\ and \The Firefly.\ His numbers run the compl-ete gamut of musical comedy types; the waltzes are lilting, the lighter songs are catchy and decidedly new. When Ivan sings the waltz song ~'In Vienna,\ he introduces an air that will becon'le popular. \Your Photo/' which smacks of the rag, is featured, hut it plea\Ses no better than ~:'On Every Sunday.\ \In a Hurry\ and \Skidi:skiscatch\ are humorous, lively and whistle- able. We -cannot give too great praise to the dancing numbers. The Russian dance by Edmund Maka- lif ancl May Thompson is a feature of the produc- tion. May Thompson in the waltz later in the piece received unstinted approbation from the audieace and well deserved it, as did al'So l(roner and Ma1:alif still later, in the polka. \Katinka\ moves to Albany from here and thence to Providence. V:fe were unable to ascer- tain the date of the New Y·ork opening, nor the theater, but we look for it to be at the Casino during Christmas week. THE BOOMERANG SMASH. Entering the Thearl Talk Shop recently, we caught two collegers reading the Concordy. \How! Haw!\ emitted one over a certain passage, ''Pretty good for the Concordy!\ And while on the Talk Shop: \A nickle box of pretzels,\ ordered a colleger the other night. Joe handed him a Knickerbocker Press. THE WASTED WAG • Say, you flighty little painter, Up above the world so high, Daubing red the Catholic steeple, Dropping paint drops in my eye- You should form a sense of humor You should recognize my pun, 'Stead of frowning when I holler: \How's the big war getting on?\* *On as in onion. Enter the first suff picture. We discovered a brand new twist in the movie'S yestereven and were immensely refreshed thereby. Jack, the Hero, first found Her neither in the wildwood with an ohsobadly sprained ankle nor in the un- welcome embrace of a roughrancher, but with his n1anly hands hewed I-Ier safely out of a drunken- men's raid on a suff parade. Of course the villian had to be a political boss, but he seemed aln1o-st a new man fighting the suffs instead of the young- governor-who-wouldn't-be-bribed. In this New Movie, the suffs were first discov- ered marching down the avenue and waving ban- ners feverishly as they sang •son1ething or other. It struck us that they might be singing, \•The Bat- tle Him of the Republic,\ but the fan next to us failed to see where that had anything to do with votes for women. Add the Wasted Wag. The Union-Star proof-readers recently allowed a woman to be \shocked to dead by fire.\ Bull Durhatn ads, in their description of the simple, easy, do-it-with-your-eyes-shut Rolling of Your Own, utterly overlook the step in which you close the end of the cigarette by twisting-so-and the smart, lively smoking tobacco slides out the other end-so. H wou \iV askt COUl dup Go- 0 of ti cent old 1ng graJ a di; slay if sc \<:: ... of tl gras hea' swe1 the Pro' A: \I fri'n Sc pho1 chec Yar1 T1 late. Yar1 T1 Eng . lUg to s

r- a . lS a THE CONCORDIENSIS 23 HAFIZ queries: If the college had an eight, would we call the shell a U-Boat? THE INEBRIATE'S PARAGRAPH. We take off our hat to the inebriate who, when asked why he was lying on the floor, burbled di\S- couragedly, \Sh-ic!; shay, 'ow c-can, hie! ged- dup wi' two gerrate bi-um! big men hol' me down? Go-ic! g'way you ol' Haig a Haigl\ Our confidence in Fenimore Cooper's mastery of the dialogue was very much undermined re- cently when, on refreshing our memory of hi'S dear old ''Deerslayer,\ we caught the Long Rifle talk- ing the flightiest kind of book-talk in one para- graph and scarcely three lines later lapsing into a dialect that would shame even a colleger. \Deer- slayer,\ on being asked if he has a sweetheart and, if so, where she lives, delivers himself of this one: \She's in the forest-hanging from the boughs of the trees, in a soft rain-in the dew on the open grass-the clouds that float about in the blue heaven.g-the birds that sing in the woods-the sweet springs where I slake my thirst-and in all the other glorious gifts that come from God's Providence!\ And an instant later he comes in with this: \It consarns me as all things that touche'S a fri'nd consarns a fri'nd.\ Score one for him who suggested taking a photograph of us as we cashed that ten-dollar check. TELEGRAM WHEE:ZE. Sept. 11. Yard Master D. & H. R. R. Albany, N. Y. Train No. 2 south bound one hour ten minutes late. Engine trouble. EAST BURBANK. Sept. 11. Yard 1\!Iastet, etc. Train No. 7 'Southbound fifty-five minutes late. Engine trouble. EAST BURBANK. Sept. 11. Yard Master, etc. Train No. 3 south bound on time. Reason un- kno·wn. EAST BURBANK. And we God-speed the delegates with the warn- ing to uphold the honor of ole America and stick to such harmless beverages aoS pea soup. \Who's that man?\ asked an innocent freshman as C. Foster Brown breezed out upon the floor to referee scrimmage. \That one?\ we wagged. \Why he's our star shot-putter.\ As the Oscar II fords the Atlantic to establi'Sh peace fordever, we long for Mark Twain to be back again to chronicle the second trip, as you mi_ght say, of the Innocents Abroad. The Hague and Hague is no harbinger of peace! NITE. MIGHTY MEN OF MEAT AND MUSCLE Doc Mac's annual pancratium brings out the hereafter appended statistics and Union College strength records up to November, 1915. We find that Alma Mater's strongest son is H. Dewey, '13, and her second strong- est, Jamieson, is now in college in the class of '17. Our record altitudinarian is Sexson, '17, and the holder of the pull-up recOtrd is also a '1 r man, Clapp, who brushed the bar vvith his beard 28 times {consecutively of course.) 1\he leg lift honors also go to the junior class and to Jamieson in particular, who beat half a ton by 960 ounces. Of the freshmen, Moser is the avoirdupois artist, Hali the strongest, and Scales, whom we should expect 'vould excel in weight, turned his talent to capturing the class height record. Read the following for more detailed in- fortnation in this line Union College Strength Records, Etc., up to 1--J ovember, 1915: Height-77 .6 inches, J. K. Sexon, 191 '{; 76.6 inches, V. H. Scales; 1919. Weight-233.8 lbs., T. W. A. Stewart, 1915; 218 lbs., B. Page, 1914. Chest (In£.) 44.8 in., T. W. A. Stewart, 1915; 43.5 in., B. Page, 1914. Chest (Exp.), 7.8 in., F. D. Trapp, 1913; 6.3 in., Shutler, 1910, L. Bowman, 1919. Biceps-15.2 in., W. R. Moser, 1919; 14.9 in,. B. Page, 1914. Lung Cap., 430 cu. in., A. W. DuBois, 1918; 415 cu. in., H. P. Stewart, 1910.

.. 24 THE ·CONCORDlENSlS Pull U ps-28 times, R. H. Clapp, 1917 ; 22 times, G. Farnsworth, 1911. Push Ups-20 times, F. H. Bryere, 1'913; 19 times, W. G. Simmons, l919. Right forearm-200 lbs., J. H. Griffin, 1912; 185 lbs., E. J. Dunn, 1910, M. Hali, 1919. Left forearm-170 lbs., H. G. Smith, 1912; 165 lbs., J. H. Griffin, 1912. Back lift-720 ibs., H. Dewey, 1913; 650 lbs., Josoloskie. Leg lift-1,060 lbs., M. Jamieson, 191\'; 1,035 lbs., E. J. Dunn, 1910. Total strength, 2511.5 lbs., H. Dewey, 1913; 2285 lbs., lVI. ·Jamieson, 191 \/. STRENGTH RECORDS CLASS 1919. Weight-210 lbs., W. R. Moser; 188 lbs., J. I-~ehn1ann. Height-76.6 in., V. Scales; 72.6 in., C. Cravens. Girth (neck)-15 in., W. R. Moser, 15.1 in., E. Patterson. Girth (Chest) 42.3 in., W. R. Moser; 41 in., J. Lehmann. Girth (\'V aist_-39.3 in., W. R. Moser; 35.5 in., J. Lehmann. Girth (Thigh )-25.5 in., W. R. Moser; 24.2 in., J. Lehmann. Girth (Calf)-15.2 in., W. R. Moser; 15 in., J. Lehmann. Girth (biceps)-15.2 in., W. R. Moser; 13.6 in., L. Bowman. Depth Chest-9.5 in., W. R. Moser; 8.6 in., J. Lehmann. Depth \Vaist-11 in., W. R. Moser; 9.3 in., Ed. Beckwith. 1-~ung capacity-. 350 cu. in., W. A. Wil- liams ; 335 cu. in., L. Bowman. Chest Expansion-6.3 in., L. Bowman; 5.8 in., T. Manion. Strength, back-520 lbs., M. Hali, I. Yo- vits; 510 lbs., L. Cunningham, C. M. Guild. Strength, legs--940 lbs., M. Hali; 840 lbs., L. Cunninghan1, L. Bown1an. Sterngth, forearm-] 85 lbs., M. Hali; 180 lbs., F. Arany. Pull ups-21 times, D. Snell; 15 titnes, A. Wilsey, Ed. Cassady, Charles Van Patten. Push ups-19 times, W. G. Simmons; 13 times, J. ~Cornell, S. Robinson, J. H. Clark. Total strength-M. Hali, 2110 lbs., D. Snell, 2055 lbs., L. Bowman, 2019 lbs., I. Yovits, 2006 lbs. Out of a freshman class of 185 men 35.1 per cent. use tobacco and 19.5 per cent. can- not swim. N. Y. UNIVERSITY QUIZ REPLIES QUEER. Chamois Valuable for Feathe·rs-Blizzard is the Inside of a Hen. These and Other Ludicrous Answers by Applicants for Certificates Amaze Regents. Following are some replies received by the University of the State of New York in ex- aminations for Regents' certificates. Among those who wrote the replies were candidates for teachers' positions, £ocr.- qualification as law and medical students and for admission to colleges. The chamois is valuable for its feathers, the whale for its kerosene oil. The feminine gender of friar is toastress. There were no Christians among the early Gauls. They were mostly lawyers. Climate is caused by the emotion of the earth around the sun. Geomet~ry teaches us how to bisect angels. The purpose of the skeleton-something to hitch meat to . The skeleton is what is left after the in- sides have been taken out and the outsides have been taken off. A blizzard is the inside of a hen. A vacuum is a large empty space where the Pope lives. A circle is a round straigl-tt line with a hole in the middle. When Cicero delivered his orat}on he was a prefix. ( tis cot c )... ll01 Tu tno ( be( J. me chi J. ma mCJ I . lllf hil we sal . ets L to1

A. 13 rk. D. I. ES ard by the ex- ong as . the . tn- a !THE CONCORDIENSIS 25 George Washington married Martha Cur- tis and in due time became the father of his country. Sixty gallons make one hedgehog. The stomach is just south of the .1ribs. The alimentary canal is located in the northern part of Indiana. The rosetta stone was a missionary to Turkey. The government of England is a limited tnockery. Georgia was founded by people who had been executed. A mountain pass is a pass given by the railroad to its employees so that they can spend their vacation in the mountains. A mountain range is a large cook stove. The qualifications of a voter at a school meeting are that he must be the father of a child for eight weeks. Achilles was dipped in the river Styx to make him immoraL Gender shows whether n1an is feminine, masculine or neuter. Gravitation is that if there were none we should fly a\vay. The function of the ston1ach is to hold up the petticoats. The stomach forms a part of the Adams A.pple. The first Governor of Massachusetts was 11:,r. Salem Witchcraft. \\Then the British got ·up in the morn- ing and saw the Americans on the opposite hill they threw up their breakfasts (breast- works). Pompeii was destroyed by an eruption of saliva from the Vatican. A permanent set of teeth consists of eight canines, eight cuspids, two tnolars and eight cuspidors. . \\T eapons of the Indian-bow, arrovv, ton1aha.,vk and war-hoop. Typhoid fever is prevented by fascination. AT THE PACIFIST MEETING. \Remember what our untrained citizenry, our undriiled warriors, our unprepared sold- iers did at Bunker Hill\ cried the orator. \Ubetcha !\ cried Binks enthusiastically \They got licked.\-· N. Y. Times Harvard has initiated a reform to bring about a more correct use of English by com- pelling any man of any class who does not use satisfactory rhetoric to take an elemen- ta~ry course without credit. Good work! MY LITANY. lVIajestic g~randeur Greek surrounds, Latin has full impressive sounds, French in a lighter grace abounds, But innocent of any such, Good Lord, deliver me from Dutch. Its crazy letters were designed To queer all thought, and mix the n1ind, So I beseech Thee, Lord, be kind, A.nd rid me of this fearful Ger1nan, Else I to rid myself determine. The verbs are weak, the verbs are strong, The nouns to many a class belong, I only know that they are long- '\fwelve svllables, Herr Gott! too much, Good I-ford, deliver me from Dutch. -Rutgers Targum. Barnard College is considering the aban- donlnent of the honor system on the grounds that \it is no more successful than the proc- tor syste1n.\ FACTS ABOUT THE RUTGERS TEAM. Rutgers was the highest scoring team in the East, totalling 352 points to opponents' 33. Bracher was the greatest ground gainer in the East, carrying the ball n1ore than a thou- sand yards. Talman vvas the highest point scorer of the season vvi th Barrett of Cornell second.

26 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Vacuum Stuffing GLOOM. By Bones. Broke, Broke, Broke. Five dollars I paid for a C, And I would that my tongue C()Uld utter The thoughts that arise in me. Oh, well for the greasy grind That he labors and digs out an A, And well for 1ny prof's peace o£ mind That he cannot hear what I say. And the college work goes on., The class rooms empty and fill. But, oh, for a grip on the green, green slip, And that crackling sound that is still. Broke, Broke, Broke, At the foot of thy crags, 0. C. l\nd the clothes to be got fon- that last five- spot \\Till never be worn by me. -Targum. A FRUIT STAND. A peach, a date, a pair one night With father on the trail- \Give back the apple of n1y eye,\ He said, \You get no kale.\ The two stopped in their hurried chase, Pa did not grant a hope, For well they knew without a sou Poor couples canteloupe.-\Spec.\ Suitor (waiting for the lady) : \Is your daughter coming out next winter?\ Father: \She'll come out when she's good and ready, and if you get f1resh, I'll knock vour block off.\-Illustrated Word. _, \May I put a kiss on your lii>s ?\ I said, And she nodded her sweet permission. So we went to press, and I rather guess, We printed a large edition..'\ -Hamilton Life. SOME SHOW-BABE. Scene One-Shoe. Scene Two-Ankles. Scene Three-Knees. Scene Four-· Tights. Encore-. (Deleted by Censors.) -Penn State Froth. ON THE FACE OF IT: The editor received this letter fron1 a youth: \Kindly tell me why a girl always closes her eyes when a fellow kisses her?\ The edito'r replied: \If you will send us your photograph we may be able to tell you the reason.\ -Yale Record. OVERHEARD IN A CLOTHING STORE. \How does this suit suit you?\ \The suit doesn't fit me.\ \Doesn't the fit suit you?\ (Pistol shot in the alley). -Stanford Chaparral. RONDEAU. You sing a little song or two, You have a little chat; You eat a piece of fudge or two, And then you take your hat; You hold her hand a while and say \Good-bye\ as sweetly as you can. Isn't that a hell of an evening For a great, big, healthy man ?-Ex. RTJTGERS AND OREGON BAN B. B. rrhat college sentin'lent throughout the country is not entirely favorable to inter- collegiate basketball is shown by the action taken by Rutgers College and the University of Oregon. Both of these institutions have abolished basketball as an intercollegiate sport. - PJ -

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y. We Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their traveling expenses ''The College Photographer'' GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Collefe Repretentative NEAR BARNEY'S 1908 1914 1915 The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie!s insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow's Head' ' CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909- J 440 State Street Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS

Top Notcher He doesn·'t get much out of life be- cause he is always keyed up to the highest piteh. Well, how about his clothes? OF COURSE, HE BUYS HOUGHTON CLOTHES. That's the easiest thing· that's before him. He kno,iVs the stvles there and is well ..I dressed. It doesn't puzlzle him or bother hin1 when he V\ 7 ears the suit; he lives up to his reputation. You fellows whose atnbition is to be as good as the next man can do it easily in your clothes when you wear a I-Ioughton suit. It doesn't take tnore dme to choose the hest thin.g than it does the poorest. Co1ne on and see the choicest of yonng men's clothing. Look with open eyes at the styles of Houghton. Exan1ine the suit, looking· for weak points. That's just it, you 'von't find anY. w/ PRICES: $ 15.00 TO $30.00. HTD 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Press

• '. ~ .. A 1 • • \; < ,f- • ._,. ~' ~=:~~~~~ .· ;.:~~=;;:;:0:~=):1~~:~~-~~~:::::~- .. :·:~;,:·:· . . .. ~ ,;. . .. · ·;,_:~,·- '~-,?·L~~:~~;;;::.~::~:::-::::~::::~~\~:-~:;· ·~· ( CJtfe CONCORDIENSIS. . II : :~. ' I I :~ : :: ~ . . First Game a Victory 33--20 Clarkson Tech. Saturday Night VOLUME 39 DECEMBER I6, 1915 NO. IO PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

I ; i : i '' .. , UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., IL D~. Chancellor ------------------------------~----------------~--------------------~------------- UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE The college offers the following undergraduate aacl graduate courses : 1. tle1U'•e• leadlaa to the 4egree of A. B. Ct..\SSICAL Couasa A.-Greek is required for ad- miuion to this course. French and German are in- eluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL COURSE B- This course may be pur sued by candidates who satisfy the requirements for admission to the Ph. B. course. Greek is begun on entrance and required for two years. In other respects Course B. is identical with Course A. s. Co1u·•• lea41DJI to the 4epee of Ph. D. LATIN-ScntNTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers 1.at1o without Greek, ior which is substituted addi- tmnal work in modern languages and science. S. V•urae leadlag to the aegree ef B. 8. ScuNTI:FIC Couasn- This course is based upon the nudy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. VoUI'ae leadlaar to the degree of B. JD. G&NUAI, ENGINEERING Couas£- This course offers tile foundation of a broad engineering education, eomprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches .of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. E~ICftiCAt, ENGINEIUUNG CouRsE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Coar•e• lea•tag to grad11ate degree•. Couasa I.!ADING TO DEGitEE or M. C. E.-Thi~ course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CoURSlt UADING TO DEGREI Of M.S. in E. E.- Thb course of one year of graduate study consists o • lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRse Lf:ADING TO D!GR£Jt or Pu. D.-This cour&( of two years of graduate study requires for admis sioo the degree of M S. in E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE, Founded 1838-A complete reorganization has been effected during the past year. Largely increased Hospital facilities have been assured with teaching services both in Medicine and Surgery, students having in1- media te responoSibility under supervision. The laboratory staff has been increased and the courses re-arranged to conform to improved methods. With these changes, it is believed that the Albany Medical College is prepared to furnish instruction which will meet the highest demands of modern medical education. Admission Requirements: Each candidate for ad- mission must present his Medical Student's Certi- ficate fron1 the Examinations Division of the Board of Regents of the State of New York and must furnish evidence of the satisfactory completion of one year's study, in a recognized college or scien- tific school, of physic·s, chemistry, biology ancl French or German. Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., has arranged for such a course. Tuition: The charge for tuition is $160.00 a year and $5.00 for matriculation. There are no extra fees except for rental of microscopes and labor-- atory breakage. •The academic year begins Sept. 27, 1915. All in- quiries and other communications should be ad- dressed to TH0:\1'AS ORDWAY. M.D., Dean. Albany, N. Y DEPA.RTMENT OF LAW ALBANY L <\ W SCHOOL- This department of the university is located at Albany, near the st~t~ capitol. It occ-upies a huildin2; wholly devoted to tts use. The courc;:e leadin~ to the degree of LL. B. is three vears: e(lch vear is divided into two sem~sters. Expenses: 1f at~ricu!ation fee, $10; tuition· fee, $no. For catalog-ne or other 1n formation, arlnress: JoHN C. \rVA'l'SnN, SecretClry. Albany, N. Y. DEPA.RT!'.!ENT OF PI-TARMAC.'{ ALBANY COLLEGE OF P1fARL\LA.CY-Crarlt\'o course of instruction compri~ing two terms of seven months each. Fees. $QO.f'JO per tt-rm. For catalogue giving full in formation, address: AtF'Rf<:D B. HPl~S'l'f.ll. Secr~tary, -13 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ~--------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------~ L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W SUITS PRESSED 25o .. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ------------------------------------------------------------------·-·-7--------------------·-· v~ va lia . Wl to liq ll1E ~ aff we a , an: pn qu~ TI1C anc CV( Th tea ha~ col reL Be sar her bat lov

The Concordiensis VOL. 39 DECEMBER 16, 1915 NO. 10 DEBATE TONIGHT. Strong 'Team to Oppose Williams. Tonight at 8 o~clock in the chapel, our varsity team 4ebates four men from Wil- liams College on the subject : \Resolved That the sale, manufacture, and importaii<>n of alcoholic liquors be prohibited by constitutional enactment, with the reservation to Congress of the right to provide for the sale and manufacture of liquors for medicinal, scientific and sacra- n1ental purpos-es.\ Our team, which is going to support the affi,rlnative, has done a great deal of hard work and is w·ell prepared to give Williams a warm rece})tion. This means that there are going to be six men there who will be prepared to give you the facts on the liquor question. l) n<loubtedly this is one of the n1ost important public questions to today and one upo11 which every man, especially every college man~ should be informed. Therefore, come around to support your team and to 1ea.rn something important. 'I'his is the :first time that a Unio11 team has debated o-ne from Williams. The entire college is pleased that we have started this relation ,and hopes that it may continue. Besides deba.ting here Williams is at the same time OJ)J?OSing v\T esleyan and Am- herst thus forming for them a triangular de- bate. The teams vvhich debate here are as fol- lows: Affirn1ative, Union-C. Foster Brown '16~ Milton H. Sternfeld '16, Avrom Jacobs '16, Clyde Heatley '18, alternate. Negative, Williams- Thomas E. May- tham '18, Goodrich C. Goodrich '18, Irving M. Day '16, Kingsley Ervin '17, alternate. BRITISI-1 LIEUT·ENANT ADDRESSES STUDENT BODY. Deplores War in Europe. Saturday, December 11, it was the priv- ilege of the student body to hear Lieutenant Shane Leslie, of the English army, speak after chapel, on the European war. Mr. Leslie is a Cambridge man, grandson of Mr. Jerome, an alumnus of Union. One of the ways in which the horror of the war was brought forcibly before Lieut. Leslie touched his life at coUege. Two of his class-rnates, famous men, Robert Brooke and Edward Bose, neither educated for a mili- tary life but instead poet and inventor, had been sacrificed to the great struggle and they but two of his \unhappy generation\ of the '80's and '90's and that just when their future was refulgent with hope. Represent- ing the idealistic an<l the practical types, they like the rest of Europe had becon1e the spendthrifts of their own past. Having been under fire in Flanders ar:.d at the Dardenelles, the lieutenant vvas able- to speak of the war at first hand. In this connection, he told of the ways the lTJen of the various countries meet tlcath. f:yca

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS the phlegmatic Tommy Atkins is constrain- ed to cry, \Fron i seats six pence,\ while a troop of Scots cheered their home town, a jelly-making center, in the face of death with \Marmalade forever.\ Wholly differ- ent but distinctive is, the advance of the aged J-1andsturm as a h urn. an shield for the Prussian guard. They advance to certain death with coats thrown over their heads but unfalteringly in their sense of duty. Patriotism impels them all-patriotism re- garding which he quoted from Tolstoy, say- ing: \Believe me, you talk about patriotism. \1 erily, verily, I say unto you, patriotism is the sin which is denounced in the scriptures.\ The truth of this he realizes novv, having seen war's toll of the just and unjust alike for patriotism's sake. The civilization of Europe has failed, he said. Two thousand years of civilization are crumbling with constitutional govern- tnent, and kings are falling. America must help in the readjustment of the Old World and from his position as representative of the Belgian Relief Fund in this country, he asked: \\Vhat are you going to give?\ America must give, in two or three years or sooner, he said, the scales of justice with- out the sword and with a \patriotism whose obYerse is not militarism, and a love that is international.\ \AN INDICTMENT OF INTERCOL- LEGIATE ATHLETICS.\ William T. Foster, in the November At- lantic, Heavily Scores Present Day Practices. \Intercollegiate athletics provide a costly, injurious and excessive regime of physical training for a few students, especially those who need it least, instead of inexpensive, healthful, and moderate exercise for all students, especially those who need it n1ost. * * * Athletics are conducted for edu- catjon or for business. These two- sets of aims are in sharp and almost complete con- flict. * * * Opposed to the three educational aims (health, recreation, ideals of right liv- 1 ng) are the ain1s of athletics as business- winning games, making money, and getting adverti.sed. * * * The call to-day is for inex- pensive, healthful, and moderate exea:-cise for all students. Colleges must sooner or later heed that call: their athletics must be for t>ducation, not for business.\ So does VVilliam 'I'. Foster, ex-Registrar of Bowdoin, and now connected with Reed College, characterize the spirit and practice of intercollegiate athletics in American uni- versities to-day. The paid coach, the any- thing-to-win spirit, extravagance in equip- ment, paying of athletes, interference of athletics with studies, the futility of con- ducting athletics for the benefit of alumni or disinterested spectators, the undue amount of space devoted to athletics in college papers, the fetish of amateur athletics, the harmful effect of athletics on real college spirit, are all counts in the indictment of college athletics as they to-day exist. Mr. Foster, both in his former official capacity and from personal observations covering over one hundred universities in over thirty- eight states, is in a good position to make his attack. He does not base his claims on ab- stract theory, but spares no words to make definite his charges. Especially does he dis- count the argument that athletics advertise a college. The paid coach, not responsible to any faculty, is as logical, says Mr. Foster, as the idea of abandoning faculty control of Latin. We would strongly advise that the article be read. Justice cannot be given to it in a brief review here. We would hesitate to subscribe to all that is said, but personally consider that the criticisms are more applic- able to large than to small colleges. (Ath- letics for 12 cents a man is rather extreme anywhere). '\fhere is more, however, than a mere germ of truth in the indictn1ent. Its cha,racterization of the mercenary spirit crec be but tior of 1 nisl tha· tior ketl sid( you day fre~ sen co Pre \· . lSm 1 den Yo1 . UUl1 Alu spo Ric coll like ma1 the trai and abl( is t] him . lnS( . tng fro1 pea san sole

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 creeping into college athletics can hardly be improved upon. Mr. Foster is violent, but this violence seerns to· be from convic- tion rather than from malice. A reading of the indictment if nothing else, will fur- nish a powerful antidote to a mental state that is apt to be too unbalanced by reflec- tions over football and expectations of bas- ketball, to give other matters a serious con- sideration in the interim. Whethe1\ or not you believe that athletics as they exist to- day are wholesome, there is something re- freshing in coming upon a vigorous pre- sentation of the rather unpopular side. becon1es fouled with weeds and barnacles, her progress will be in1peded; if the ,rud·der becomes clogged, she will not stee'r straight; if the n1achinery becomes rusted and the boilers unsafe, she may commit suicide, as ships and states have done before now. The crime of our modern citizenship is not sO' much mismanagement as neglect. We have got to adjust ourselves to a nentirely new conception of public duty. We shall have to put more time, more brains, more energy, and n1ore self-sacrifice into the management of our public affairs, and these will have to be furnished in larger measure than ever be- fore by the educated men from our col- COLLEGE SHOULD BE A FOUNTAIN leges.\ OF PATRIOTISM. Dr. Alexander Presides. President Richmond at New York Alumni Dinner Favors Military Discipline. \The college should be and we must see that it is the perennial fountain of patriot- ism-the center of a fine infection.\ This sentiment was expressed by Presi- dent Richmond last Thursday night in New York City at the twenty-eighth annual re- union and dinner of the Union College Alumni Association of New York City. Re- sponding to the toast \Alma Mater,\ Dr. Richmond also said : \I am not advocating military training in colleges. I do not believe in it. I should like, however, to see every Union College man who is not obliged to earn money in the summer for his education go into the training camps and get the fine discipline and the instruction V\rhich those camps are able to give him. But the important thing is that the young man shall have ground into him until it becomes an indestructible and inseparable part of him the duty of serv- ing his country. So that when he goes out from college to live his own life, if it is peace, he shall put into his civil duties the same devotion and zeal which every good soldier puts into his work in the field. \No ship is indestructible. If the bottom Dr. George Alexander, '66, as president of the association, presided., and the speak- ers in addition to P~resident Richmond were, Dr. William H. McElroy, '60, and Robert Brewster Beattie, '96. The officers elected were: Rev. Dr. George Alexander, '66, president; Dr. Edgar S. Barney, '84, first vice-president; Dr. ...A..lexander Duane, '78, second vice- president; William Allen, '95, secretary; Frederick Klein, '95, treasurer. 'rhe following alumni were elected mem- bers of the executive committee for a period of three years each : Charles F. Bishop, '80; William M. Gil- bert., '83; LeRoy J. Weed, '01; Theodore Cof- fin, '02; Leighton H. Peebles, '06. UNION STUDENTS ATTEND ROCH- ESTER CONVENTION. At the convention of the Student Volun- teer Union of New York State heldat Rochester on December 3, 4 and 5th, Lee C. Fletcher, '16, Wilson 0. Clough, '17, and Irwin Buell, '1 \'/ attended as representa- tives from the Union College Christian A~­ sociation.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS SOPHOMORE SOIREE GREAT SUCCESS! The Sophomore Soiree was held Friday night, December 10, in the gymnasium. The large attendance, excellent music and re£reshments made the first college social affair of the year a great success. One hun- dred couples were present, there being an excellent representation of the student body and a good number of alumni. Eight pieces of Europe's orchestra conducted by Europe himself, furnished the music. The catering was ~one by Winnips. The garnet and white streamers stretched over the girders of the gym, introduced by Foster Brown at the Junior· Prom last year, were used by ~1cCauley and his committee with good ef- fect. The grand march led by Calkins, presi- dent of the sophomore class, started at nine o'clock and from then on for the next six hours the dancers vvhirled away the time to Europe's peculiar strains. The success of the affair confirms the judgment of the Terrace Council in chang- ing the date of the Soiree fron1 Junior Week t.o the early vy-inter season, and augurs well for the continuance of the custom. NEW TERRACE COUNCIL RULES. Dudeens Replace Cigarettes for 1919. The Terrace Council has adopted two rules regarding the .regulation of freshmen. These radically alter those in force at the present. One of them changes the regula- tion permitting- freshmen to smoke cigar- ettes only on the streets of the city and on the catnpus, interdicting cigarettes and cigars and pern1itting only corn cob pipes to be used by the frosh within the pre- scribed limits. The other permits fresh- men to g-o to Glenn's and the Crown with- ._, out the escort of an upper classman during Christmas, 'rhanksgiving and Easter vaca- tions. These amendments to the present rules vvere read by Gene H urn mer at col- lege meeting Monday and \Vere laid on the table until next week when they will be acted on by the student body. There seem- ed to be no opposition when they were read. On the contrary they w,ere loudly applauded and in all probability will be put through next 1\1onday. The Terrace Council has also amended the provision of the rules relating to class canes by defining a class cane. The lan- guage of the amendment makes a cane bear- ing class n un1erals or colors and adopted by the class the official cane. The rule per- mitting the official cane to be carried only by a class which has won a cane 'rush is un- changed, as is the rule permitting only upper classinen and sophomores after mov- ing-up day to carry canes at all. TEAC'HERS WANTED. A number of students are wanted to teach boys' Bible classes in the city Y. M. C. A. Some of the students have already volun- teered for this most valuable work and sev- eral more can be used. The work takes about an hour and a half each week and is of invaluable assistance to both teacher and taught. A normal class will be held in Silliman Hall for the preparation of the half hour lessons which are given in the Y. M. C. A. building down town. If you have any inclination for this work hand your name to General Secretary Story as soon as pos- sible. COMING VESPER SERVICE. In the college chapel at five o'clock Sun- day afternoon Professor Horace Grant Mc- Kean will be the speaker. The attendance of the student body is especially urged for this service as an address of particular value to college men is anticipated. Professor Mc- Kean's subject will be, \After the War- What?\ cnc sis1 ter: \Ve: Ka Tor. .. 1110 Ce; 11() T y1 ......( ' I auc 1 \NO: l11U . tng wa~ 1s a ) 1ne( l a( clul oft . lOU: of a of 1 esp( cou leg( WOt mer tire pec1

THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 PSI UPSILON ENTERTAINS. Psi Upsilon entertained over the \Veek end for the Soiree. Saturday's progra1n con- sisted of a theater party and tea in the af- ternoon, and a dance after the basketball ga.n1e in the evening. Among those present \vere ~![rs. F. B. Richards, Mrs. Dayton L. Kathan, Mrs. DeF. vV eed ·and the Misses Jones, Flood, Rayn1ond, Wiederhold, Ray- n1ond, Ostrom, Abbe, Smith, Bradshavv, Cease, JV[arsden, McNally, Baxter, Newton, 11()ore, George, J aggard, 1\'allman Richards, Lyle, Pearson and Hayes. ----- MUSICAL CLUBS TAKE TRIP. I~ast Friday evening the Musical Clubs 'Vent to the Skidmore School of Arts in Saratoga, where in conjunction with the Skidmore entertainers, they charmed a large audience. . 'The sight of so many good looking young \Nomen quickly took the frost out o~ our n1usicians' fingers and they were soon play- ing in the best of form. The whole affair was very well received, and an engagement_ is assured there for next season. After the entertainment, all the men stayed for a short period of dancing, and 1neeting the women. Manager Santee is working on plans for a Christmas trip, but many members of the clubs are not in favor of a trip at this tin1e of the year, so the affair is doubtful. SIGNAL CORPS. The Concordiensis desires to call the ser- ious attention of students to the formation of a signal corps on the \Hill.\ It is a form of national preparedness that a college is especially well fitted to give training in. It could easily be incorporated into our col- lege 'vork and if properly supported, would probably receive invaluable govern- ment assistance. This line of work, so en- tirely different fro1n the more drastic as- pects of military preparedness, and yet so i1nportant to our national safety, should at- tract the anti as well as the pro-militarists in our ranks. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, Faculty and fellow-students ! BIG FIRE AT WILLIAMS. Early in the morning of December 'l, a fire probably due to spontaneous combus- tion completely destroyed Thon1pson Chemical l-taboratory at ·williams College. .l\ssistant Professor Mears estimated the loss to be close to $100,000. The building, erected in 1892, was valued at $60,000, ex- clusive of any of the contents. The library . on the third floor, containing several thou- sand volumes, many of which were rare old books out of print, and bound files of chem- ical journals, was valued at over $5,000. It was considered to be one of the completest collections of its kind in New England. In the second floor room at the southeast corner of the \ell che1nical balances cost- ing $2,000 were kept. Among the other items of loss were $2,000 worth of platinum, and copper valued at $5,000. Many of the che1nicals cannot be replaced now, on ac- count of the cutting off of the foreign sup- plies and were consequently of great value. In Professor !\1ears' office, lecture notes for all of his courses, and files and records of every descripti6n went u<~~'p in flames. A letter from Woehler, the pioneer in the field of organic chemistry, addressed to Prof. Leverett 1\tiears, and hanging framed in his office, is one of the prized personal posses- sions \vhich was lost. --- Decetnber 7 Paderewski played at Car- negie Hall, Columbia University. The bene~ fits vvere donated to the Society for Preven- tion of Tuberculosis. VV\illiams Debate Tonight.

. i 14 THE :CONCORDIENSIS REV. WARREN P. GRANT SPEAKS AT VESPERS. \THE STRENGTH OF MEEKNESS.\ '~The Strength of !vieekness.\ This seem- ing paradox was the subject of the talk given by the Rev. Warren Po Grant at Sunday vespers. 'I'o be meek does not Jllean to he easily cowed, or easily impost!d upon, but to be controlled by the invisible ; to live, not for the present, but for the future. Every great prize fighter has been famous for his one punch. Each was willing to take pun- ishment or endure even the appearance of defeat, waiting patiently for the oppor- tunity to get in his one decisive blow. I~ikewise, life is a battle, in which, if we 'vish to win, -vve must endure patiently with a fortitude which forsees the invisible at the end and which ·finally brings us victor- ious to the goal. l1r. Grant 'vho 'vas g-raduated f.rom the '-\ Colgate Theological Seminary in 1914, is pastor of the Union Street Baptist Church of Schenectady. MEETING OF MEMORIAL COMMIT- TEE. At a meeting of the Memorial Committee of the Graduate Council held Wednesday. December 8th, the following were present: S. T. Benedict, '60; Judge Grenville M. In- galsbie, '68; Dean Ripton, '80; DeL. W. Watkins, '80; Rec. W. N. P. Dailey, '84; F. B. Richards, '88; Prof. Bennett, '90; and Peter Nelson, '98. The committee decided to provide an alumni alcove in the N ott Library, and the work of raising funds for that purpose will start immediately. An investigation of the arrangements for the provision of proper and fitting care for the Union Plot in Vale Cemetery is being carried on. A sub-committee was appointed to make inquiries as to what could be done in re- gard to renaming Union Avenue, Hattie, and Carrie Streets, it being greatly desired to have them bear the names of prominent Union alumnL The project of making an itinerary book of the campus and college buildings was placed in the hands of a sub-committee, to be carried out in1mediately. Resolutions of thanks for and appreciation of the effoirts of F. H. Learey, '63, were spread on the minutes. Mr. Learey has prepared and compiled an extensive and complete record of the ·union College men who served in the Civil War. A motion was made and carried, to the effect that Presidt:;nt Richmond be request- ed to deliver an address at the opening of the second semester, commemorating the life and V\rorks of D~r. N ott. This occasion n1arks the date of the half-century after the close of Dr. Nott's work at Union. A PROFESSIONAL ROUGH-RIDING ACADEMY. It may be of interest to Union students to kno '\V that a company representing eastern financiers and western men are planning to start rough-riding academies in all the col- lege tovvns with a view toward giving .cav- alry training to college men and other to\\\'ns-people. 'I'he plan is to secure west- ern horses and to co-operate with the gov- ernment, if possible, in the matter of equ-ipment, arms, amn1unition and army of- ficers for trainers. Probably cow-boys and Cherokee Indians would also officiate as teachers. Those desiring further informa- tion should comtnunicate '\vith Mr. Henrv . I. Greenburgh, 34 Maplewood Ave., city. Mr. Greenburgh, who represents the com- pany in Schenectady, expects to address the students in chapel on the subject next Mon- day. Over 50,000 students of German Univer- sities have joined their colors and are at the f~ront. , 1 J ( , ( ( ( 1 r t s 1l 0 t: fl t: a 0 '\ I

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15 PUBLICATION OF HANDBOOK. A new scheme has been devised by the . Advisory Board of the Christian Associa- tion for the publication of the association handbook or the \Frosh Bible.\ The plan is so~ewhat similar to those for the selection of the officers of the other publications in this college. The resolution as passed by the l>oard is to the effect that: ''Each year an assistant editor be appoint- ed by the president of the association on the first day of October to assist in the editing of the I-Iandbook and that the appointment be made fron1 among the members of the sophomore class. \The assistant editor so appointed with the approval of the Publication Committee, be editor-in-chief of the Handbook in the year following his appo·intment as assistant editor. If the work of the assistant editor pro\res to be 11nsatisfactory the Publication Committee n1ay ask the president of the as- sociation for a ne'~' appointment. \The business manager be chosen from the Junior class on the first day o.f October by a corr.mittee co1nposed of the business man- ager of the Handbook, the ex-editor-in- chief, and the president of the association. The choice shall be based upon the vvork done by 1nen who, in their sophomore year, have vvorked out for the position of business manager. (Other things being equal a man taking an active interest in the association shall be given preference.) \Each co1npetitor for the office of busi- ness manager be allowed five per cent. on all of the paid advertising that he secures and that the manager he allowed fifty dollars or fraction thereof that may be a surplus from the publishing of the Handbook and that any surplus over fifty dollars shall be turned over to the general funds of the association.\ A call for the sophomores who wish to con1.pete for the office of business manager \vill be m.ade within a short time by Carl F. Danner, '16, \vho 'vas the chairman of the committee on publication for the 1915-1916 Handbook . ---- Recently there have been published in the newspapers statements to the effect that Stuart Car1r Peck, a Wesleyan freshman, died December second, after initiation into the Chi Psi fraternity, the implication being that his initiation or hazing connected there- with had something to do with his death. These stories were whoUy false. Young Mr. p,eck had been pledged Chi Psi but was never initiated. He had been ill all sum- mer, having undergone two operations, was ill in the autumn, was delayed in going to college and when he arrived was not initiated because it was doubtful if he would remain in college. He was treateq by the Chi Psi chapter at Wesleyan with the utmost con- sideration. It was recognized that he was ill and he received special attention and hospitality. He was never hazed by any- body in any way whatever. Since the pub- lication of the erroneous statements, the story has been denied by Mr. Peck, the boy's father, and by President Shanklin of vV es- leyan University. 400 VOLUNTEERS AT HARVARD. More than 400 men have al,ready enlisted in the Harvard University Battalion being organized for voluntary drill. This n urn- ber insures the co-operation of the War De- partment which, according to the statement of General Leonard Wood, will supply the equipment for the contingent and provide a military officer for the drill. Recent statistics give the three largest col- leges in the United States as follows: Colum- bia, 11,300 students; California, 8,180; and Chicago, 7,131. About 500 Syracuse students have \Hit the 'rrail\ so far in Billy Sunday's st.ren- . nous campa1gn.

16 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIEN:SIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., a-s Second Class Matter. EDITOR,.IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avrom M. Jacobs, '16. ASS'T LIT. EDITOR James B. Taylor, 'r6 STAFF ARTIST Alwyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, .'16, Business Manager Ernest W. Mandeville, '17, Ass't. Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. BASKET BALL. all of the colleges wish to tear down and in so doing build up their own. In the next place we are to be represented by a nearly new team. This fact in itself presents a big problem, for no matter what the ability of the individual players may be, the success or failure of the team lies in its ability to act as a unit and to display that team work which is the result of tin1e and experience alone. A Union team has never met de- feat in the new gyn1. and it behooves us all to get behind our new men and do all in our pov{er to help then1 out in their studies and in every other way and thus keep defeat away from the door of our new gym for another vear. But to turn from theory to practice we find that we have every reason to look for- ward to a repetition of the last tvvo seasons. .An unusually large nun1ber of good tnen are trying out for the varsity and they make the practice hard and fast. The first string men are getting opposition frotn the scrubs which equals that to be encountered from many of our rivals. 1~his kind of training can not help having its effect and Coach Davvson already has developed a team that will do a great deal toward continuing to uphold the repu- When we look back over Union's last two basketball seasons, we find an enviable rec- ord. Two defeats in as many years is a rec- ord of which we may be justly proud. We n1ust also realize that along with this success goes a reputation which must be lived up to, and so just at present our great ain1 is to tation of the championship tean1 of last year. uphold and add to that great natne which Novv a~ a -vvord of advice to the student sterling work of the Beavers, Houghton and \Voods has given to Union in the world of basket ball. We already know that in car·rying out this task the present team has no easy work. In the first place, this year's schedule is un- doubtedly the hardest that Union has evet been called upon to face. This is but the result of our great work in the past and we have achieved a name and reputation which body; do not think of our team as a new one \vhich must make a name for itself before yon get behind it and push, but consider it as a Union teatn which we have never known to fail and which we will not allow to be beaten. \\4.. 'MERRY CHRISTM.AS. In this last issue of the Concordiensis be- fore the Christtnas vacation we take the opr a v Ye. j leg da) fill< ha\ rap on a hE tun uv<: ad age: roll tha l\1a anc . 1mr tha 1 by Th: 'rh; 'I'h< ·Th< 'I'h; Th( Th: An~

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 opportunity to vvish the faculty and students a very Merry Christmas and I-Iappy N evv- Year. Almost itnperceptibly, a third of the col- lege year has slipped by. One by one the days have passed and because they were so filled with busy hours and good times they have att~racted no special attention to their rapidity. Titne is always playing this trick on college men. The entering freshn1an sees ahead of hitn four long years of vast oppor- tunity. \iVith a shock the senior looks back uver four short years which have passed as a dream, and regretfully asks vvhy he has not given n1ore time to the in1prove1nent of his opportunities. lYiay the thought that Christmas is here again serve to retnind us that the years are rolling around us with deceptive speed and that we are easily fooled as to the titne. l\1ay it increase in our n1inds the itnport- ance of improving every minute and of the imn1ediate grasping of every opportunity that presents itself to us in our college life. The editorials for this issue were written by vVilliam C. Loughlin. THE CUMBERLAND'S CREW. Pat Maloney's Version. That marnin' o' March is balmy as 1\fay 'rhar's niver a wave afloat on the bay 'I'he braze is aslape, the winds are a\vay, ·The Cun1berland's flag scarce breaks on the day. 'I'har's a trailin' cloud from a belchin' stack. Thar's a prow to ran1, thar are guns to wrack, Thar are deck and roof o' raHroad trac\<, And the Stars and Bars,-the l\1errin1ac. 1~he Cun1.berland's guns growl sullen and hoa,rse ... L\s swift as the lightning flies from its source, So swift are her shots, so awful their :force; But stili the Merrimac keeps to he~r ·course. Loik paper she rips the Cumberland's side - The brave old frigate, her wound gapin.g wide, Her n1addened. guns snapping the crested tide Goes down with her crew, her flag and her pridee But when the sad sea has cooled the parched throats Of her fevered guns, her battle flag floats Anrl her dauntless crew in their sailor coats Clear ship for the sky, in their God's loif- boats. Saint 1\.fichael, he coon1s fron1 the attld grane sod- His 'scutcheon, a shamrock, a shalalla and hod, The arch-angels bow at his slightest nod, He's chief o' perlice in the City o' God. I calls to the same as I'·d call to you, \]\foik l\foik, they are cooming-the wh()le · dan1ned crew, \Turn out your gua·rd ! Give the honors their due! \They're the bravest n1in that iver I knew .. '\ I s,i\~ears and I cheers and I swings rne hat. J\1e eyes are as wet as a drownin' rat.- I jist can't help it; me name it is Pat- I would schwap n1e loif for a death loik that. Thin Cap'n Buchanan, the foin caYalirr, '\Vho chances to stand the v\There he can hear,- The brave to the brave forever are dear,- Says \Gunner Maloney, thanks for that cheer.\ HEADFOR'r.

18 THE CONCORDIENSIS THEYMIGHTHAVESAIDS. (Being \A Dirge,\ by John Keats) Rough wind, that moanest loud Grief, too sad for -song; Wild wind, when sullen cloud Knelled all last night long; Sad snow, who's flakes turn jet In this blue Monday slush and wet, Wail loud: gone's the soiree girl I met, And all the world's wrong! \Ve have seldom listened to a man who had a better grasp of the English language and who could ~Summon up the right word for the right place with more nonchalance than Lieutenat Leslie, speaker in Saturday chapel. And, in pass- ing, we thank our lucky stars that he didn't bring his fluency to the soiree. As it was, she noticed \that big, good-looking man\ crossing the campus and we were 'Subsequently nil while he could be seen with the naked eye. Someone, under fire in economics class, hope- fully guessed that the derivation of the expres- sion \bucket-shop\ might be connected with watering the stock. THE EVILS OF COLLEGE LIFE. Holding proudly aloof, as we do, from game-s of chance, we can get a perspective of the evil influences possible to spring therefrom. Some day a colleger will be invited into high so- ciety; he will sit down to a respectable dinner- table and, during the course of the meal, he will pass up his plate to be replenished, -saying absent-mindedly, \Gim1ne another dollar's worth o' those potato chips. hang the luck!\ SMASHING THE FOOTLIGHTS. PROCTOR'S-Sunday's Vitagraph Blue Rib- bon feature was remarkably well done in every respect, possibly excepting one incident in the working out of the plot. We seldom see a ,dream picture these days, e.gpeciaUy when the dream is announced. before it takes place, without sighing the sigh of boredom,. but this film was a welcome surprise. While knowing all the time that the hero was dreaming, we were held strongly inter- ested throughout by the excellent acting and the unrolling of the strong plot within a plot. The jolt in our interest came in the conclusion of the hero's sleep experience. He has fought a duel that really looks as if it meant business, he is badly wounded and lies in the arms of his sec- onds awaiting the end. But, instead of the re- lieved awakening that should come during the last -struggle for breath, he becomes disembodied from himself and hangs around at a safe distance watching himself die and be carried off the field. Then, when it's all over and the expected climax: well past, he wakes up. From a psycological standpoint, this feat is all right enough, but it is rlecidedly wrong. we think, from the view-point of good scenario construction. Edith Storey takes the leading female role in this £1m and sho·ws the fan another angle of her versatility. Her dancing in the opening scenes is very clever. The last half vaudeville bill was the worst we have seen at Proctor'-s this season. Several bills recently have been fairly good, but this one was a bad slip backwards. VAN-The second appearance of Mayo and Field's farce, \Twin Beds,\ was no better or worse than the first. The company was nothing more than fair. The part of the I tal ian tenor was very badly filled. \The Tempters\ i-s the same old shake-together that has been around twice a year as long as we remember. Instilling a beauty contest into the piece doesn't disguise it any, and neglecting to change a joke from year to year puts in a finishing touch of poorness. We enjoyed that shell joke when we fir.gt saw it long ago. MUDRA WK-· The Crane-Shirleys, we arc~ glad to say, took a decided brace last week and staged a very fair production of \The Yellow Ticket.\ The personal characteristics of the players fitted in very well with the parts, in most caoSes, and consequently the whole tone of the production was several notes higher than that of last week's farce. Crane appeared to better ad- vantage as the American journalist than he has in any role since he has been here, the devil-may- care mannerism, which the stock hero gets soon er or later, coinciding perfectly with the needoe of his part. Shirley, in the role of the Jewess, fo eli: de Sb HI re: er 1o 1 sa1 tn~ ne ye tu: lea he gr1 co· Hi wa ca] na thi tht stc cle Inf th( lit1 sla l. to tht Ill rec Me: COl bai ( th«: COJ wii . tnc dra r . fill drc SUI leg of the on

THE CONCORDIENSIS 19 forget to be sorry over her hard lot in life in the difficult stretches of several long lines. Hay- den Stevenson, a new acquisition to the Crane- Shirleys, played the Russian baron very well. He will be a material help to the company if he remains. The part of the American girl's fath- er was very poorly done. All h1 all, \The Y el- low Ticket\ brought the semblance of a renais- sance to the Mudhawk. * * * * We see that the Keystone Company is attempt- ing to create another comedian in the same man- ner hat they \made\ Charlie Chaplin. Several years ago the queer little man with the up- turned toes began to appear regularly in the leads of the Keystone films. No one knew who he wa.g, nor cared especially at first, but, as he grew more and more popular throughout the country, people began to wonder who he could be. His name was closely withheld, however, and it was not generally known until the time of his capture by the Essanay people and the subsequent nation-wide featuring of his name. It is with this quiet system of forcing the popularity of the unknown player upon the public that Key- stone is introducing \Gussle.\ He uses many clever, pre-conceived mechanical means of draw- ing his laughs, but he falls far 'Short of having the natural, spontaneou.g humor of Charlie. The little Englishman will never meet his equal in slap-stick comedy. * * * * And while speaking of Keystone, it was our joy to read that Mable Normand has recovered from the dangerous illness which resulted from a blow in the head with a shoe heel during a recent fracas before the camera. The Sparkling Mable is the Chaplin of the ladies; fans will wel- come with open hearts her return to the Keystone battles. * * * * Grace George, we read, has offered a 1,000 for the best play written by a college student. A comedy being desired, the proposition is well within the ability of several Union collegers, not including our.gelf. We offer the free use of our dran1atic library to any aspirant after the 1,000. * * * * The subject of college play-writing brings to mind the dead-and-buried state of our own dramatics, and we wonder if they will ever be re- surrected again. Few are the .American col- leges that do not look to their dramatics as one of their most important activities. A majority of them smaller colleges included, have dramatics on a ba.gis similar to that of our musical clubs, appearing abroad in the towns and cities where the alumni are strong and where it would be a· good advertisement. We fail to see why this activity is dormant at Union. All it needs is someone to grease the ways a little. TELEGRAM WAG. Union College, Dec. - Captain Varsity Debating Tea1n, Williams College. Plan to stay here over night. Big party at Glenn's after debate. Union College Debating Team. Any manual labor is unpleasant, but we can't conceive of a more arduous employment than has the Jay Street tailor who advertises: \Clothes Pressed By Hand.\ His task might be called a sort of presstidigitation though there can obvious- ly be nothing slight of hand about him. Press and public are shouting for a new army and navy for national defence, noticing, we sup- pose, that they are defending themselves in the old country. THOSE BARBER SHOP CONVERSATIONS. \Hello ole man! liow's business?\ \Oh 'So-so. Well, what you think of the latest developments over across?\ \Say you know them Germans ought to be annihlat.ed. I tell you right now, if they lick the alleys civiliza tion'l be busted all to smash.\ \Yer right! Yessir! Who broke them treatiez, I want to know? Them Germans! Every time!\ \Sure they did.\ \And let me tell you another thing, boy. Soon's then1 Germans win that ole KaySAR's going to dnn1p ninety thousand men slam into Batt'ry Park, New York City, you listen to that!\ \I nev'ta.ble! I'm for national perpared-ness every time. That's what I say!\ \None o' this watch and wait fer me!\ \ Me either. Perpared-ness, I say. That's the dope for the U. S. Where you 'SUppose them Germans'd been this minute now without that wonderful perpared-ness they got? Shot sky high, I say!\ \Sky high's no word for it. Why, I tell you it's wonderful how they're trimmin' the whole cont-- nent the way they are. It's the biggest thing go in'!\ \You got to hand it to 'em haven't you now?\ \Mm! Well, I guess not! Wonderful race, them Gennans. Humph! German'S. Hun1ph! Seven o'clock. Got to break

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS away, ole n1an. 1 ' \Same here. The wife'H be waitin'.\ \Well be good!\ \Be good yourself!\ A WORD TO THE WISE. We have often thought of what a wonderful melee Caustic Hop Adams, of the Tribune Ad- Visor, could make among the wonder sales of The Outlet in Jay Street. And while in a vein of, as yon might say, spuriousness, we take it upon our- self to warn the 'Slnoking collegers of a cigarette paper called \Riz La Tour.\ They are put up in exact in1itation of the \Riz La Croix\ master- pieces, but they are very, very different. We recon1mend them as excellent material to pass out to the bun1mer. With the advent of the corn-cob pipe in fresh- .tnan circles comes the rumor that secret agents of the Smokarol Company are working with the men higher up. THE INEBRIATE'S PARAGRAPH. We have forgotten what literary inebriate it w215 that asked if Edgar Lee Masters ever wrote a Green River Anthology. At last the diplomatic notes to Austria are get- ting very harsh, and The Times says that the la~t one is, unless Vienna backs down, the forerun- ner of an ultimatum-a pen ultimatum, we Funny Men would 'Say. Maeterlincke once issued a scientific paper in which he n1ade the stagge-ring guess that bugs and plants have souls, and therefore, we suppose, in- fers that they are immortal. A good summertitne thought i-s that no mosquitoes are good. \London Laughs at Ru1nor of New German Air Raids,\ headlines the London Times of the 12th. Regular Charlie Zeppelins, those Germans! As the tilne of going to pre-ss approaches, to assu1ne a news-paperic air. the Real Snow i-s coming. We welcon1e it. It fills up the cracks in the windows and we joyfully discover that we can ]ig-ht a cigarette in one far corner of the room without shielding the match with one hand. NITE. There are sixty-two uncalled for diplomas at the lJniversi ty of Kansas. Most of them are J\'I aster of Arts degrees. \THE SPIRES OF OXF'ORD.\ From the Westminster Gazette we take ''1'he Spires of Oxford,\ by vY. M. Letts: I saw the spires of Oxford As I was passing by, 'l'he gray spires of Oxford Against a pear 1- gray sky. My heart was with the O:xford tnen Who went abroad to die. rrhe years go fast in Oxford, The golden years and gay, The hoary colleges look down On careless boys at play. But when the bugles sounded war They put their games away. They left the peaceful river, The cricket-field, the quad, The shaven la\vns of Oxford To seek a bloody sod-- They gave their merry youth away For country and for God. God rest you, happy gentlemen, \~Tho laid your good lives down, Who took the khaki and the gun Instead of cap and go,vn. God bring you to a fairer place Then even Oxford town. te bt to . 10 fo K de a£ th Otl il~e; he Wl . lfi of ca: '\e- lot hi~ po hit lat ret bu· the: It SOl ha• dit

THE CONCORDIENSIS 21 AT THE END OF THE TERM. By Joshua Agenda. It was a miserable vvay to spend the af- ternoon, but the call of one's family had to be heeded occasionally. It was too windy to play tennis anyhow. So he sat labor- iously writing home. '~I suppose I've got to stick around here for a few days after g.raduation at least/' Kirn ber:ley vvrote. \There's a lot to be done--somebody's got to straighten out after the old grads get through mussing the place up. It really hasn't been a bad year, but I'll be glad when exams are over. I guess I'll be able to run down home about the \ His roommate sprawled his ungainly bulk on the lounge across the room. Harvey ~really was tremendously fat. Just at present he was wheezing uncomfortably with a wretched cold. \Harvey\ called the letter-writer, \how in the world do you spell 'eighth?' \ Harvey shifted his bulk ever so little on the lounge. \1 wish you wouldn't annoy me,\ he said in his husky voice. \I'm right in the middle of Marchbank's big scene with Morell and can,t be disturbed. You spell eighth ~ e-i-g--h-' \ Then he stopped. He rose fron1 the lounge and his asthmatic breath fluttered in his throat. Without another word he fell, ponderously, bizarrely. Kimberley ran to hhn. * * * * Kimberley stood by the window an hour later looking out at the sunset. He had no remembrance of running to the telephone but so-on enough Dr. Peters and several of the fellows had come. Harvey was dead. It was some complication of asthma a1H 1 something going to the heart Dr. Peters had said. Harvey had been in rotten con- dition. They had taken what was left of hitn. Telegrams had been sent, the dean had call- ed. And now Kimberley stood by the 'vin- dow in a strange hush that followed upon the excitement of the previous hour. Behind the hills across the valley the sun was going down. Elm trees intervened so that Kimberley could scarcely see the fac- tories that lined the river. For five 1ninutes he stood there. Abruptly he turned, snapped on the desk- light, and sat down. In front of him lay the unfinished letter. i\s he took up l}is foun- tain pen he read over the last lines-· \I guess I'll be able to run down home about the --\ ffhere the line stopped. Kimberley spoke up suddenly- \Harvey he called, \how in the world do you spell 'eighth?'\ It was with a gesture as of warding a blovvr between the eyes that he reached for the dictionary~ AN EXPI.-~ANATION. Said Richard E. to Nathan* \\~T e've hit it bad this trip; 'J~he hour's four-no copy set! I~et's let'er all go flip!\ Said Nathan .A~. to Richard: \\V e can't afford to flunk; 1~here's no \vay like the Jacobs \'\i\\'\ay Let's fill'er up with junk!\ *Nathan-Nathaniel. The members of the sophomore class of 1918 \Vho are trying out for the assistant basketball managership are: Calkins, Jay- cox, Towne, Beckett and McKenna. SALUTATIONS. \Vhen two 1nembers of the class of 191 r-; 111eet the greeting is, \H ul.lo, old n1an !\ \\Then two men1bers of the class of 'GS n1.eet the salutation is \Rullo old boy!\ ----- Your turn next, Clarkson Tech!

22 THE CONCORDIENSIS Vacuum Stuffing l)oc Mac-If I stood upon my head the blood will run down into my head \'Tould it not? '19-Y es, sir. Doc 1\fac-'Then, why does not the blood run into my feet \-vhen I stand upon the1n? '] 9-Because yer feet ain't empty. LOGICAL MIND. IIoffy : \Where do liars go when they die?\ C. Foster : \1'hey are buried and lie still .. , 'fhis freshman wore corduroy pants; ''Aha!\ cried the bold sophs, \Our chants!\ .And the garments frosh ~Tore, \~/hen the contest was o'er, \\ 7 ould never look well at a dants. - J ack-0'- Lantern. \J\.y there's the rub,\ soliloquized the thin- locked Hatnlet, as he gazed at a bottle of Iferpicide in a drug store window. -- J ack-0'- Lantern. . I t-l dreamed last night I took the class- test queen on the campus to the pron1. She- Did [ dance \vell. --·California Pelican. F:. Q. Oliphant, the famous halfback of this year's Army football team, is the only four \A\ \ix . man at rl est Po1nt. Although he has been there only one year, he has made his letter in baseball, basketball, football and track .. According to a special survey, ,recently made for the trustees of Princeton U niver- sity, that institution, during the last 10 years, has not only doubled its investment in buildings and equipment, but at present is spending on its teaching staff over twice the amount spent for similar purposes a ·decade ago. Ten years ago the estimated cost of Princeton's buildings was $3,238,840. Since then, 19 structures, costing $4:,157,480 in all, have been erected. Patronize our advertisers. Merry Christmas! I

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YO·RKo 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y. vV e Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. We rebate to all customers favoring us with patronage their traveling expenses \The College Photographer\ GA.R.NET 190J 1909 1~ 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 190fi 1012 1907 1913 E. W. MANDEVILLE, '17 Colle\e RepreHntative NEAR BAR'NEY'S 1905 1914 19U The Wallace Co. \Schenectady's Distinctive Store.\ Our superior buying facilitie~ insure our patrons the broadest, most ex- clusive stocks. Quality considered our prices are the most reasonable here- abouts. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head\ CLEANLINESS lends you an additio11al charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. 0 ur prices make cleaning a necessity, mot a luxury. We clean everythin.g that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guarante~d at very reasonable prices. \Ve call for and deli-ver. Sanitary Cleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 44:0 State StTeet Schenectady T axieab Service E11. 'Phone 4489 WHEN IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4-489 KILDER & HICKS

If you are a real genius, keep it to yourself. If you are a real eighteen carat article ·Folks will find out about you, and You will get your reward. A College Man's Store of the \Square Deal Sort\ We have an ideal of what a college n1an's clothing· store ought to be, and we try to live up to it-to do by you as we would have you do by us. Good storekeeping is sotnething more than expending our energy in trying to catch the nimble dollars and cents. When you decide to buy :here, we on our part resolve that your purchase shall })lease you so completely that you think of this store first when you wish to buy again. You are to feel that vve have acted honorably to\vard yot1t and have been truly helpful in value and service. You are to feel that this is a college n1an' s store of the \square deal'' Exclusive Models-Exclusive Fabrics. Created By Us-For You. SUITS OVERCOATS SIOT0$30 SIOT0$80 YOUR HOLIDAY HAT-A DERBY \The Store of Today- .. Four Hours From Broadway.'' HTD 455 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Press

