', ' ) ' ., s ,r ••• ' ' • • ' j'/ ' ' I • •• ' ' ,, . \ .. 1'\ I ,, . ' ,, ' ' , ' ' I # \ I .,

CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, De D., LL. Dee Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. C®nr~Ses leading; to the degree of A.. B. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, :at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the €Iegree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cou1•se leading to the (}egree of B. s. ScrEN'I'n'rc CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAI., ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course o:ffet\s the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate degrees. COURSE LEADING TO DEGREE OF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V .. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CoURSE LEADING TO DEGREE ott M. s. Ee E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE O:F PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: VV ILLIS G. TuCKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, No Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. p ARK:ER, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $zo; tuition fee, $rIO. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N .. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretary, '• Everything for the College Man except Exenn'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTSu BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472· W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate /_ I

; f ' I - I . i . i TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All styles and leathers LINDSAY 8ROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WALL STS. The Cain's Leadinat exponent& of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p9 m. Pri· vate Lessons by appointment. Assembly on . Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS r~9ia; 3 ~:;:; . ~ ._'.· Company r - EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions,. Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cas~s. Everything for well dressed men.

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the .ordinary ready made clothes because they are the equal .of the finest custom tailor's output. We are sole a~·en.ts in this tri·city territory for Rogers Peet Co;. anid ''The Frankel Fifteen'' (The greatest $1;5 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the ·times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as olte did in by-gone days. Neither would :you ha v- ing your shoes repaired by the old st:yle hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Free Order Service Opposit~ Jay Street Telepnone 3456 ( Higgins' j L Drawin• Inka Eternal Writin• Ink Enlroaain• Ink Taurine Mucila•e Photo Mounter Paate Drawin' Board Paate Liquid Paate Office Paate V eletable Gluea etc, ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, ~·. f ! l \ I I 't l

! ~ ' 1 f ' ! I 't l \ / William F aversham SJ~~,J~IIIil,l. Famous Actor, aaya t!~ti![iti \A pipe oF Tuxedo k•epa me feeling physically lit and in good spirits, and, because it i• mild t:rnd doe•n't bite, it ia pleasant to tlae throat t:rnd keep• m~ voice in llOOd tone.\ Tuxedo Keeps You Physically Fit Every playgoer has remarked the virility and clean-cut vigor of William F aversham, both as an actor and as a man. No matter what part he is play- ing, he always presents a figure of alert strength and keen wits. His voice is especially engaging, clear, carrying and sonorous. ForT uxed.o tobacco to gain a testimonial from such a man, stating that it helps to keep him u physically fit and in g()od spirits\ and keeps his voice ''in good tone\ goes far toward convincing you of Tuxedo's wholesome, all-round value to you. Tlze Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarett• Tuxedo will put snap and vim into your daily work. It's an inspiring tobacco that will keep you fit as a fiddle, full of zest, hearty and happy and hale. You can smoke it all day long, and each succeeding pipeful will glow with greater cheer. The original, exclusive \Tuxedo Process\ has many imitators- but no equal. Try Tuxedo for a week, and you'll like it forever. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Convenient, glassine • wrapped, Sc Famous green tin, with goid } 0 moiature•proof pouch • • • lettering, curved to fit pocket C In Tin Humidor3, 40c and 80c In Glass Humidors, 5 Oc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY . ' ···-

Say Fellows: 'Bring in your laundry and save ~money Note these Prices: Shirts all Kinds ...................... lOc Collars· ...... w •••••••••••••.•••.•••.•••• 2c : , Union Suits . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... lOc , '· Underwear, N~ight Shirts , and Pajam.as. . . . ........... 6c each • Hose ....................... 3c per pair : Handkerchiets •...................•.. 2c :: Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You 'Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MU:SICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Uni:veraitiea from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. _ . . To Cure Cold til BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. o·••1T[..U' ·.-...., i·r w £;.,'-'11 • ut11'J\ l'f'l Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN The Sche~ectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 318-320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. I I , I ~ ' .. t ' I . ' ~ I

- ~ '.·f ' I . ' ~ I L Clothing Furnishings Hats~ W~e're ready whenever you our. Why not com~e to-day'? The newest and best in each department. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY ''If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Ti.res w Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S --EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Ratbskeller. Bowling Alley. and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to · carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303~305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported Telephone 2323- J and Domestic Woolens GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom :Made STYLISH CLOTHES · Comparison is the Le:ver That Turns . Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority of workmanship and ne.wness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience ot an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking.- ]() Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented .at the time of tJurclzase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free 'The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. ·The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c .I-~adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 25c ·Men's soles, nailed ____ 50: to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 1905 1911 WHITE, 229 State Street 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S Colle~e Repre•4!'ntsative 1908 19H 1915 are in every style suitable · for city or country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. , ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave.

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 4, 1915 N0.12 UNION TAKES GAME FROM COLGATE. Fast Work on Both Sides. Colgate's redoubtable five succumbed to Union last Friday night in the gym by a score of 25 to 17. This was the game Union had to vvin because Colgate is this year the strongest contender for the North- eastern League pennant, and Union had no easy time doing it. It was a swift, stren- uous game enlivened by remarkable pass- work on either side and marred as far as the lJ nion team went by long, wild shots. Colgate was the fastest team the Garnet has played this year on the Schenectady court. The team which defeated Dart- tnouth, vVilliams, and Wesleyan was lightn- ing-fast, heavy, persi tent, and almost in- fallible in shooting baskets. A wonderful spurt by the home team in the first ten minutes of play during which Union scored thirteen points to Colgate's none was di- rectly responsible for the victory. For shortly afterwards Colgate scored seven points in succession, and in the second half hung up just as many tallies as Union. With the very first blast of the whistle Union started scoring. Teedy Woods tip- ped the ball directly into Dave Beaver's hands. Dave pirouetted and projected the baH unerringly into the coveted basket- rim. The inspiration caused by this feat just bubbled over for the next ten minutes and in that time Union swept Colgate off their feet. Teedy Woods slipped the ball into the basket twice in succession inside of two minutes and Erny Houghton also obliged. The hal£ ended with a score of 15 to 7. For a seemingly interminable period after scoring their first 13 points Union's score stood still. Try as they would they could not break the unlucky thirteen. Then just before the half closed Erny Houghton scored a field basket. In the mean time Col- gate had scored 7 points and the score at the end of the first half stood Union 15, Colgate 7. In the second half Colgate came back strong. The nearest they could get to Union's total, however, was within four points. Shortly after this low ebb the Gar- net pulled a\vay. Most prominent in scoring a hili ty w~s Captain Houghton who caged :five :field goals. The fact that he played Kennedy, Colgate's star man, adds to this feat. But in foul shooting Erny had a bad night, only two of his ten chances. Teedy Woods had a fast, difficult n1an to play in Johnson but he stayed right with him through the game and the northerner's speed could not hinder 1~eedy's vigilance. Woods played the best game he has shown this season- aggressive, fast, and brainy. Joe Haubner, though he scored no baskets, put up a great exhibition of team play. He pluckily stay- ed 'vith his man who had about twenty pounds on him in weight, and though Joe took a lot of punishment he would not be

10 THE CONCORDIENS,lS shaken off. 'The Beavers played wonder~ ful basketball, caging two shots apiece and guarding well. One criticism of the game was the pre- valence of long shots, often wild shots, which Union tried. Colgate did not un- cork a single long shot till late in the game, but Union heaved them from all over the court. This must have been policy in part, because the game was \ron on long shots, but there were occasions when it seemed that passing down the floor and more con- sistent floor work would have netted good results. For Colgate Van Alstyne, Johnson and Kennedy played star games, though the whole tean1 played hard, fast basketball. The summary: UNION (25) COLGATE (17) J. Beaver ------------------ Van Alstyne Right forward. I-Iaubner ---------------------- Kennedy Left forward. VVoods ------------------------ Johnson Center. _Houghton ---------------------- Benzoni Right guard. D. Beaver --------------------- Stewart Left guard. Field goals-For Union, Houghton, 5; D. Beaver, 2; Woods, 2; J. Beaver, 2; for Col- gate, Van Alstyne, 2 ; Kennedy, 2 ; Stewart, ~~; Johnson, 1. Foul goals-For Union, '\ I-Ioughton, 2; D. Beaver, 1 ; for Colgate, Kennedy, 3. Fouls comtnitted-For Union, D. Beaver, 2 personal; Houghton, 2 person- al; J. Beaver, vVoods, 1 personal; for Col- gate, \ 7 an Alstyne, 2 technical; Kennedy, 1 technical, 2 personal; Johnson, 4 technical; Benzoni, 1 personal. Referee-Koult. Timekeeper--Fairman. Scorer-Brothers. DR. PALMER ON TENNYSON. 'rennyson was the particular poet treated by Dr. Palmer in his lecture last W ednes- day night on the \Psychology of English Poetry.\ A very large audience heard this most interesting and instructive lecture. Tennyson, who with Browning embodied in his works the tendencies of the nineteenth century, ·was in Dr. Palmer'~ judgn1ent an example of the true poet in accordance with his definition which he gave in his opening lecture, namely, ua poet is one whose en- deavor is the conscious transmission or moods of mind to other receptive moods.'' Tennyson held Pope's idea with regard to his life-that it was his to lead a purely lit- erary life and this he did, writing for sixty- five years, having published his first volume at the early age of eighteen. Poetry, this poet thought, was not a gentleman's pas .. time but a fine art and this he made it. The events of Tennyson's life and train- ing the speaker gave as they had to do di- rectly with his writings. He was born of a poetical family a poet by birth and by nature as well-\a solitary, sensitive soul.\ His life and his writings fall into corres- ponding and coincident divisions. \Poems by Two Brothers\ was Tennyson's first vol- ume and this cojointly with his brother. It \\Vas totally unrepresentative o£ the genius of the great poet. \Timbuctoo his prize poem at Trinity College, was better received and indicated to his college friend and ar- dent admirer, Arthur Hallam, the coming greatness of its author. . In 1832 he publish- ed his second volume but this was bitterly attacked by the reading public and for the ten succeeding years he worked over his earlier potery and \'sought perfection in his art.\ Then came great personal sorrow to him and this the lecturer described with its recultant influence on his writings. Then later in 1856, ''the climatic year of his life,\ good fortune came to the poet and this and his writings of the time were detailed in Dr. Palmer's graceful style. 'rennyson was a poet of England-she was his favorite theme but not to the ex- clusion of love, however, for \love'' said Dr.

an ng or ,, to it- . .. \ 1- d y ' {,\; ~--~i ·.:i ,::1 .·a :.~ ·;~ J THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 Palmer \'must make the great stock of any poet.\ But love with Tennyson stands for the stability of love and not its mere mo- mentary rapture as vvith Burns. Nor were these his only subjects; he was interested in the problems of his time and with regard to them was almost a prophet, and here the speaker instanced his treatment of the evolution of woman as seen in \The Prin- cess.'' Throughout he held to the spiritual . . . ticulariz.ed. \Bells and Pomegranates\ was cited as one of Browning's dramatic works --dramatic because there is nothing ab- stract about it. \Browning was an absolute n1:aster of expression and- his obscurity was due to fecundity not to feebleness,\ said Dr. Palmer. He wrote not for others but for himself and then complained that the public didn't understand him! One of his 'vorks, ''The Ring and the Book,\ was cited as the great masterpiece of the nineteenth century in English poetry. His involved style is expressive of deep arid obscure things, the workings of the human soul. v1ew 1n sc1ence. \All Tennyson's work,\ Dr. Palmer said, \is a celebration of man.\ Here he is seen as a careful observer of nature although but two or three of his poe1ns are nature poen1.s. Nature is with him a background for the mood of man. With Wordsworth, he held that nature takes on our moods. A final element of Tennyson's greatness the speaker gave as his wonderful ability in inventing new measures to fit his moods. BROWNING BY DR. PALMER. Last Thursday night Dr. Palmer gave to his usually large audience the last of his splendid lectures on the ''Psychology of English Poetry.\ Browning was his sub- ject-the man in whom was found the high- est expression of the later romanticists- second only to Shakespeare in dealing with the character of individual men and women \just as the~ are.\ His interest, the speaker told us, was entirely in n1en-he hardly dealt with the outward natural world. 'I'he stock from which he sprung, his lack of education, love for music, the influence of .Keats and Shelley upon him, and his early failure in dramatic writing were char- acteristically presented by the lecturer. An excellent contrast was presented be- tween Browning and Tennyson, the poet of the previous night's lecture. The differ- ence in their handling of character, which 'vas Bro\vning's literary forte, was that 'rennyson's characters were generalized while his great conten1porary's was par- JUNIOR WEEK HOUSE ~ARTIES. Many Fair Guests to be Entertained. This year three fraternities will add to the general festivities of Junior Week by hold- ing house parties. During the week Chi Psi will entertain eleven young ladies at the Lodge. They are Miss Wentz, of Scranton, Pa.; Miss 1\finer, New York City; Miss Lawrence, Sterling, Ill.; Miss Parmalee, Omaha, Nebr.; Miss Clarke, New York City; Miss Parker, Batavia, N. Y.; Miss Webb, Fulton, N. Y.; Miss Connell, Scranton, Pa. ; Miss Thompson, Saratoga, N.Y.; Miss Dur- ham, Schenectady, N. Y.; and Miss Meyer, Jersey City, N. J.; Miss Vosburgh, F'ort Plain, N. Y. ; and Miss Coonley, De- Kalb, Ill. Saturday afternoon there will be a tea and in the evening after the bas- ketball game a dance 'vill be held. The Phi Delta Theta fraternity will en- tertain their fair visitors in their new house on Lenox Road. They are also planning for a dance Saturday evening. The guests at the Phi Delta Theta house party will be Miss Catharine Caney, Cooperstown, N. Y.; lVIiss 11arguerite Cramphin, Albany, N. Y.; 1\!Iiss Ida Vanderpool, New Baltimore, N. Y.; l\t1iss Kathleen Riley, Plattsburg, N. Y.; Miss Florence Jones, Albany, N. Y.; Miss }darion Marston, Albany, N. Y.; Miss Edna M. l)oolittle, Albany, N. Y.; Miss Ethel L.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS 1-:T ardin, Schenectady, N. Y.; Miss Marian Rafter, ~,1ohawk, N. Y. The patronesses are: Mrs. 0. G. Hawn, Albany, N. Y., and ]\1rs. C. D. Hawn, R.avena, N. Y. s1nart n1ilitary lines are its great asset. This design usually appears with drop-shoulders to the region of the knees and an irregular waist-line of scalloped flounces with pend- ants of striped crepe de chine and washable feather stitching about the pockets and button-holes. It has no yoke. Another inl- mensely popular design for evening is the circular blouse vvith an overskirt of baby Irish hemstitching over a foundation of Scotch tweed. This modish creation has buttons of white corduroy down the front of the suspenders to the orange pin-tuck hem o( the skirt and up the back in spirals . .~.\ novel efiect is the beaded apron of bis- cuit colored organdy suspended from the rear of the neck with a ruffed bib of Vienese chiffon gathered in nine-inch shirrs. The effect of this gown is perfected by polka- dots in the shape of coral beads arranged in the forn1 of pentagons just below the hips. The silhouette of this n1ode is unique. Even- ing capes \vill appear in papier mache and water colored towelling, button-holed with strings of popcorn and electric lights-and- .At the Sig1na Phi place, where nun1erous fair guests are expected, there will be a dance Saturday evening. Several other fraternities are planning to entertain at teas and dances during the week. A JUNIOR vVEEK TOAST SOMETHING IN ADVANCE AT- TEMPTED BY A SOPHOMORE. Perhaps at no other social function in the east this season will there appear such a brilliant dress display as at the Junior w·eek affairs at Union College. The smartest fash- ioners of the world will be represented in some of the costumes. ·originality is the keynote of the customer's ideas and the results are eagerly awaited by the beau- 'lllonde. N. B. to Editor-Say, if you want this thing finished, you'll have to do it yourself. And don't ever give me another assignment like this. THE ELECTRICAL SHOW. Plans are progressing for the electrical show to be held April 6 and 7 in the labora- tory and the basetnent of Washburn Hall. This is the first affair of its kind to be held at Union and at the meeting of the engi- neers from all classes last Friday consider- able interest and enthusiasm was aroused. Dr. Berg and Mr. Lee, who have made the affair possible, talked to the assembled engineers as also did _Cornelius Mahaney, who is general manager. Quite the newest tendencies in chick even- ing gowns is the figured taffeta jumper in conjunction with the faille or poult de soie transparent draped hoop-skirt. Its quaint, The men who have charge of the ar- rangen1ents are: General manager, Cor- nelius Mahaney, '15; business manager, E. A. Norton, '15; assistant business man- ' I I

nd- of . he . ln n- . 1. d - ' I I THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 ager, H .. Newton, '16; advertising manager, Marvin, '15, assistant advertising manager, Nat Finch, '16; chief engineer, Edward R. Hughes, '15; power engineer, R. A, Arthur, '15, and lighting engineer, W. R. G. Blake, '16. 1'he senior and junior electricals have been assigned exhibits and experiments which they are even at this early date get- ting in readiness for the show. A particular effort is being made to inter·· est high and preparatory school students in the affair as it will be an excellent means of attracting sub-freshrnent to Union, especially those interested in electricity. The show is to be a college affair in which it is expected the entire stu.derit body will co-operate. OVER THE WIRE. HHello, is this nought-nought, double nought nought nought?\ \Yes this is Junior Week speaking, who . h. ?\ lS t lS. \Hello Junior Week, this is the Con- cordy. I beat you here this time. When will you arrive?\ \Tell the boys I'll be there on the seven- ten. It's sort of late but what's the dif ?\ \Say J. \V'., the ladies started coming =n today and \ \The what?\ \The ladies, the dames, the skirts, th~ fluzzies, the chicks, the peaches, the calicos, the femmes-oh ! you know who I mean-- h \1 ,., t e go1 s. \Sure sure, the goils-what d'ye think of them?\ \What do I think !-It aint English-Oh i they're beauts, boy! The very cream of aU femininity is with us just in honor of your coming-can't you make it six forty-five?\ \I guess so, Con. old fellow, how many house parties have you detected?\ \Three big ones, J. W.\ \Only three?\ \Oh! but I tell you they're humdingers-- every one of 'em. They're all made in A.merica, too. I hear that some of the girls speak English-must have been abroad or· somethjng. Well we won't rule 'em out on such sn1all technicalities, will we? Say, the air here is so dense with laughter and per- futne and songs and music and handshakes and gleeful noises of all descriptions that I can hardly talk, but can't you come at 6 :15 ?\ \I'll be there at six!\ ''Good!'' \So long, Con, old sport. \See you later. Good-bye.\ CLASSICAL CLUB. An in1portant meeting of the Classical Club took place on Tuesday evening, Feb- ruary 2. The paper which the late Donald Coulter prepared, shortly before his death on \Poet Lander,\ and which he was to read to the club, was delivered by Fitzgerald, '15. R. E. Taylor, '16, read an interesting paper on \Ancient Greek Universities.\ THE GREASY GRIND. \Vhen Jake and I were quaffing rye and gi ttin' kinder meller, sez Jake to me sez he, sez he: \There's jist one sort of feller that I would take if I should make a high school or a college or any other bloomin' place for saltin' down the knowledge.\ An' when ] sez respectful like: \An' what's yer speshul kind sir?\ he bristled up as if to strike and sez: \The Greasy Grind, sir!\ His nose is always in his task, so it's a cinch to find hin1; he'll always do whate'er you ask with one swift kick behind him. They're punk :ts atheletes, hence reduce the fear of competi- tion, for one can't be an athlete and a chemo-mathemetician. They can't debate and lucubrate, so while they do the latter, I easi lee n1ake 'Varsity and win a name for clatter. They are not free for l(on Kor Dee, for Pres Club, or for Garnet. -I get the plums from these poor bums and mighty \

14 TfiE CONCORDIENS:Is easy, darn it! And so I find the Greasy Grind a sort of \m who feeds my dreams on chocolate creams and strews, my path with roses. Were aU the tutes such bla1ned ga~oots, so blind in search of know]- edge, before I doffed my freshman green, by Heck, I'd run the college l\ R. E. T., '16. THE LADIES. As Some Men Have Seen Them. \If thou wouldest please the ladies, thou n1ust endeavor to make them pleased with themselves.-Fuller. * * * Women, ever in extremes, are always either better or worse than men.-La Bruyere. * * * The world was ·sadf-the garden was a wild! The man, the hermit, sighed-till woman smiled. -· Can1pbell. * * * Maidens, like moths, are caught by glare, And Mam1non wins his way where Seraphs might despair. -Byron. * * * One only care your gentle breasts should nlOVe-- Th' important bus'ness of your life is love. -Lyttelton. * * * * * * Where is any author in the world Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye? -Shakespeare. DEDICATION OF 1916 GARNET. It has been decided to dedicate the 1916 Garnet to :Dr. Stanley P. Chase. The junior class wishes to express its esteem in this manner, and to show its appreciation of the work 'vhich Dr. Chase has done for Union, especially in the realm of literary publica- tion. THE JUNIOR WEEK GOAT DIVORCE AT DEJEUNER. Ethel and John have just returned fro1n their honeyn1oon and taken possession of the little home that Ethel's father bought for them. It is one of those cottages that are intrinsic falsehoods; that act Old Eng- lish quaintness in spite of modern American plumbing. It has rambler roses on a trellis up the south side and a little back piazza with a swinging bench where the two can sit and spoon as if they were not married exce~t that mother doesn't come out (so suddenly) at eleven o'clock to send John home. Still, it's a happy time. Breakfast comes early every morning so John can catch the eight-twenty car for the office. For the first month breakfast is a de- light. The sun shines in the big bay win- dow with the chintz hangings (they were presents from Ethel's bridesmaids) and draws large luminous parallelograms on the nevv mahogany table (furniture by John's family) and makes the silver (King pat- tern, from grandpa) glisten. Ethel's moth- er has sent Julia over to christen the new kitchen and Julia always did make wonder- ful breakfast biscuits. Ethel doesn't have to strain the coffee either. John is new shaven and by his own hand. .)

14 Tli E CONCORDIENSIS easy, darn it! And so I find the Greasy Grind a sort of \tneek-as-l\Ioscs \Yho feeds my drccuns on chocolate crca1ns and stre\vs n1y path \\·it h rose~. \\·ere all the tutes such b 1 a 111 e d g- a 1 oo t ~, so h 1 i n d i n search of k no \\'1- edgc, before I doffed n1y freshn1an green, b,· I-Iecl.,:, I'd run the college!'' f{. E. ;r., 'Iu. THE LADIES. As Some Men Have Seen Them . .. If thou \\Touldcst p1ca:-;e the ladies, thou tnust en<lca\·or to n1ake then1 pleased vvith then1scl Yes.-Fu ll er. ~~ * * \\~on1en, eYer in extren1es, are ahvays ci thcr better or '\\Torse than n1cn.-La Bruvere. _, * * * The \\·orld \Yas sad !-the garden \Yas a \Yil d ! The n1an. the hennit, sighed-till \VOn1an sn1ilcd. -Can1pbell. * * * .:\Iaidens, like 1noths. are caught by glare, .£\nd ~Tan11non \\Tins his \Yay \vhere Seraphs 1night despair. -Byron. * * * One only care your g-entle breasts should 1110YC-- 'Th' 1tnportant bus'ness of your life is Io,~e. -Lvttelton. * * * \\.here is anv author in the \\Tor]d . . - 'l'eacl1es st1ch beauty as a \VOn1an's eve? -Shakespeare. ----- J)EDICATION OF 1916 GARNET. It has been decided to dedicate the 191G Garnet to J)r. Stanley P. Chase. ~rhe junior class \Yish es to express its esteen1 in this n1C1nller, and to sho\\T it:-; appreciation of the \York \vhich J)r. Chase l1as done for Union, c ~ p e c i a II y in t h c rea 1 111 () f l i t crary pub I i c a- tion. THE JUNIOR WEEK GOAT DIVORCE AT DEJEUNER. Ethe 1 and John have just returned fronJ their honeyn1oon and taken possession of the little hon1e that Ethel's father bought for then1. It is one of those cottages that are intrinsic falsehoods; that act Old Eng- lish quaintness in spite of n1oclcrn r\n1erican plun1bing. It has ran1hler roses on a trellis up the south side and a little back piazza \Vith a svvinging bench \Vhere the t\\·o can sit and spoon as if they \Yerc not n1arried except that 111other doesn't co1nc out ( ~o suddenly) at eleven o'clock to send John hon1e. Still, it's a happy ti1ne. Breakfast cotnes early eYery tnorning so John can catch the eight-t\venty car for the office. For the first tnonth breakfast is a de- light. The sun shines in the big bay \\'in- do\\. \Yith the chintz hangings (they \vere presents fron1 Ethel's bridestnaids) and dra\vs large Iun1i no us parallelograms on the ne\v mahogany table (furniture by John's fa1nily) and 1nakes the sih·er (l'·:ing pat- tern, frotn grandpa) glisten. Ethel's nloth- er has sent Julia oYer to christen the ne\v kitchrn and Julia ahvays did n1ake \\'onder- ful hrcakfast biscuits. Ethel doesn't haYc to strain the coffee either. John is nr\\T shaven and hy his O\\Tn hand. I \ . I J } ' I ' I I.

I l THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 (Ask not the scrapings and contortions he witnesses daily in the round mirror in the bathroom.) Ethel is bright and gay, and son1e times accompanies John down town to shop; even if, before marriage, she break- fasted in bed and rose to visit-well, the dressmaker or the hair lady or the Tues- day Club or Professor Carreno or the Girls' Friendly----not before eleven. Ethel is a big girl now and realizes her responsibilities. TI:en one day a quam seizes our bride. She has kept Julia over five weeks. Julia must return to poor dear mother. So Ethel trips to the em.ploytnent agency and obtains waiver -clain1s on a handmaid with north- of-Ireland elbows. Next day breakfast was not such a joy. Veronica was willing but Veronica was not the ultimate in cooks; she was a little premature. John missed his car because the steak wasn't quite done. With the advent of Veronica the good ship Newlywed encountered stormy seas. One V\reek later John's alarm alarmed as usual at seven. \Big Ben\ always annoyed John so he kicked him off the night-table. With that, \'Big Ben\ stopped; but he was an intermittent alarm with a vitiated dis- position, and began clanging again. John should have got up and turned the catch, thought Ethel in the next room, but John didn't and the alarm tintinnabulated for three minutes. Intense silence then fell. Ethel lay and thought about her hair which was such a nuisance to do. John with shut eyes wor- ried about the Never-Ready which made his chin so sore. Ethel dozed and thought of her mother's home-her old home, she thought, with a little sigh of lonelyness (a ne'v house is never exactly home) and lazi- ness. John fell off in troubled dreams of the old barber shop on Clinton Street where in the carefree days of his bachelordom he vvould drop in morningly for a comfortable shave. All his old pals met there-rare im- pecunious fello,;ys who laughed heartily and joshed mercilessly and matched nickels as the waited their turns with Old Sam and Young Toney, union barbers. What zest for the day's work those meetings inspired, what joy of living. Then that fatal reflex brain action called comparison began work in two minds: to- day and three n1onths ago-comfort land cocoa at ten o'clock-a head-barber shave and pithy synopsis of the standing of the clubs at eight. But John caught his car and Ethel went back to the table and drank cold coffee. The next day wrought the change. One thing was imperative-the eight-twenty must be caught. And. Ethel appeared with one of those fluffy pinky-bow things over her hair. Innocence was rewarded by a glimpse of curl papers and wrinkled locks. (Why can't the tnale sex take things for granted-even delusions?) Ethel really had felt so tired that-the explanation encoun- tered a snag when the bristles on John's chin gleamed in the morning sun. \I thought I'd run down to Sam's and get a shave this morning--that razor thing up- stairs needs refilling or something,\ said John. Ten minutes later there was more brain action in two minds-\ I don't quite like l\iary's carlessness-curl papers! and hiding them under one of those immoral French things !\ \John really should shave. I'n1 all scratched where he kissed me. Ouch * * *\ The old crowd at Sam's hailed John as one lost and found. Ethel went back to bed. Another n1onth of lapses elapses. At the end of that time John hears the alarms go off, and rises with alacrity. He has grad- uated altogether from the safety-razor class and visits Sam's daily. He goes down stairs and picks up the paper. (Ethel doesn't like hiln to read at breakfast but Ethel isn't down yet.) \fhe \Porcupines\ won and the \Freebooters\ lost. John wonders who

16 THE ~CONCORDIENSIS drew the '\Freebooters\ in Sam's fifty cent pool. l-Ie -vvould hurry down to find out-. but where is breakfast and where is Ethel? Veronica enters: \Please si~, Mis' Ethel says for you to eat right away. She don't feel like coming down to breakfast she says.\ John wonders if Ethel is ill and goes to see. She seems to be dozing peacefully and speaks with her eyes still closed. \Is that you Veronica?\ says Ethel. \Set the coffee on the table and lay out my pink dimitie. I'm going to spend the day at Mother's.\ (\trhose eternal curl papers,\) thinks John. \No says he, \It's I. I thought you n1igh t be sick.\ Ethel's eyes open very suddenly. \Oh good morning. No, I'm not. I just didn't \vant to get up.\ In those eyes is just a spark of defiance, and a little coldness. Defiance deepens when John asks, \I thought you were going to have the plumbers today? I shouldn-'t think you'd care to leave them alone in the house.\ \Well if you think I ought to stay of course I shall, but \ \Oh_ by no 1neans,\ says John, turning on his heel. \Go ahead. I hope you feel better later on.\ As he went down stairs two minds work- ed double forty. \I don't see -vvhy he kept harping on my not feeling V\rell. He knew perfectly well that I did feel all right. As if I should stay in bed for nothing but illness * * *\ When a wife refers to her husband as \he\ instead of \John\ or \Teddy\ or \Horace\ or \Tootsey trouble is in the air, be assured. John thought: \I''m sure Ethel might care a little n1ore about my comfort than staying in bed all morning. The eggs were like n1alachite.'' This was not logical and hardly grammatical, but pertinent. ·After that Ethel seldom comes to break- fast. \\Then she does, she descends en kimono. A.nd after a time the smouldering grievances-fires lit by her absence are fan- ned by her presence. ()ne winter morning she appears once too often, \\T e spare the coffee-stained de- tails. At noon, having packed and pulled down the ,chintz curtains, and left an in1portant gold ring on the very center of John's dress- ing table (\Just like her\ snarls John, re- trieving it) Ethel goes home to mother. A bas the breakfast table! young mar- ried people. Custom cannot break nor repetition avail its infinite monotony. Y\Toung ones, beware the matitudinal muf- fin. MORRIS GILBERT. MUSICAL CLUBS RENDER CONCERT IN SCHENECTADY. Monday night, January 25, Union's com- bined musical clubs made a decided hit be- fore an enthusiastic audience in the Sche- nectady High School auditorium. The first numbers of the concert were two Union songs, by the Glee Club, \Old Union Beside the Mohawk Vale\ and \Union Marching Song·.\ The mandolin orchestra rendered \White Star 1\llarch\ and \l\1emoirs D'Amour,\ \A Tragic Story_,\ by the Glee Club, vocal solo, \When the Bells in the Light House Toll- ed,\ by Stanley Smith, and Nevin's \N ar- cissus,\ by a string sextet. For the second part of the program, the Glee Club sang \Little Tommy Tucker\ and \I'll Change the Shadows to Sunshine;\ the Mandolin Club played Bacon's \The Spook's Frolic;\ R. I. Stein '18 played a violin solo, and the Banjo Club Moquin's \Sanita.\ The program was concluded by Alma Mater, rendered by the combined clubs. Several \taking\ encores were given. The program was carefully gotten up with a view to appropriate selections for college j ) I

I \ .~'· ,':~J·- .;·~ !>I '·'· :I I ~ j ) I ' ~ THE CONCORDIENSIS 17 musicians. For the solo numbers Smith and Stein deserve much credit. TRAVEL ABROAD (IN NEW YORK STATE.) I left my home and went to Rome, To Syracuse and Troy. Myself I led aside and said, \You've travelled son1e my boy !\ One evening's call, told her all My travels out from Lockport. J-Ier pretty head she tossed and said, \From way out home in Brockport''- (\I never r1se to Paradise Or tra:vel e'en to Eden-) But ev'ry year I journey clear To Turin and to Sweden!\ J. B. T., '16. MALLEN CAPTAIN OF SWIMMING. At a meeting of the candidates for the s-vvimn1ing team last Monday Phil Mallen '16 was elected captain of the team. Phil needs very little introduction as he is al- ready tri'ed and proven as a first .. cl~ss m.an. It is hoped that the condition of the team and other things will point toward a meet with Wesleyan very soon. DEBATING TEAM CHOSEN. At the tryouts held Friday afternoon, the following team was chosen to represent Union for its fifth annual debate against Cornell: Raymond S. Blodgett, '15, Milton H. Sternf-eld '16, and Avrom M. Jacobs, '16, with Spencer B. Eddy '18, as alternate. All the men have had previous experience and the three speakers are all of last yeaJr's 'varsity tean1. Sternfeld and Jacobs were on this year's victorious Philomathean team, Jacobs being the individual prize win- ner. Blodgett has been a 'varsity debater for three years. The subject for debate is very sin1ilar to the Allison-Foote subject. It is, \Resolved That in view of the present situation, the United States should take in1mediate steps to increase its artny and navy.\ Union is to uphold the affirmCJ,tive of the proposition. 'rhe debaters realize that Donald Coul- ter's loss will he a serious handicap, but the men are far m.ore experienced than .~ast year, and plan to overcon1e the handicap by energetic methods. It is too early now to rnake predictions one way or the other, but it is safe to say that a stiff struggle is to con1e. Meanwhile, ·union stu des may as well begin planning ao attend the debate and also interview their class treasurers on the question of that debating tax. JUNIOR WEEK VESPERS. Dr. Richmond \'rill be the speaker at the chapel service to be held Sunday at eleven o'clock. This will be the last event of Junior \\Teek. A.t Hobart the ancient <;ustom of pad- dling, which corresponds to our hair cutting as punishment for violation of student law, has been abolished by the seniors. Upon the approval of the student governing body it will be officially a thing of the past. No substitute has yet been adopted hut social ostracism seems to be regarded by many as a proper punishment for underclass viola- tion. . TO THE FESTIVE DAYS. JUNIOR WEEK, the time of joy, Union College, child of gladness, N a ugh can love for your destroy In our hearts, through mirth or sadness Or through any other n1adness, Rend your brightness from our thoughts. Welcon1e, days of Cupid's wiles Every hour too quickly flies ; Every moment brings its stniles Kaleidoscopic to our eyes.

18 THE CON·CORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION ·coLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady; N. Y., as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. WELCOME. Once a year we have the privilege of greeting those of the fair sex who are gath- ered together from the four winds and come to let their joyous voices ring through the trees of our campus and their merry laugh- ter echo and re-echo from the grey old walls of our college. It is an indescribable pleasure to be able to attempt to tell them just how glad we are to see them, with what anticipation we longed for the time of their arrival and the lovely memories which we know will linger with us long after they have dispersed and gone to their various hotnes. Words are weak implements indeed when we desire to make them describe our etnotions, our longings and our deeper feel- ings of intense gratitude and unadulterated joy. If we say that you are welcome, young- ladies, good chaperones and kind patron- esses, ~re should tell you only that which you know already, but if it were possible for us to frame a word of welcon1e to you which would do justice to the inner feelings which we desire to express through the weak medium of language, it may be pos- sible that your knowledge on the subject n1ight be sornewhat enlarged. Throughout the year we receive many guests, do our best to make them feel at ease in our midst and treat them in a man- ner which tends to make them rermember us as their friends. They are all welcon1e and when they leave us we sorrow at their departure and long for their speedy return. But only once in a year do we receive such guests as you-the very gems of won1an- hood, some in the bloom of happy youth, others in the period of matronly charm and loveliness. For three days you reign su- preme upon the campus and the joys of the happy absolutism with which you control our every action can never be forgotten. Ladies, with all our hearts we bid you welcome; we greet you; we bow ourselves to your happy service; we wish you every joy while with us and every happy memory after your ·departure, and we thank you for the honor which you give by paying this short, sweet visit to us and to our college. THE COLGATE GAME. Despite the fact that the festivities of this joyous time of the year are occupying the larger part of our most valuable tin1e, \ \ .. \ ~ I I .; 'l . .. \.1 ! ~ .

'• I . \ \ .. \ I \ I -I 'l . .. \.1 ! ~ . THE ·CONCORDIENSIS 19 -vve feel that the Colgate game deserves recognition in these columns and we take this opportunity of extending to the Garnet team our congratulations and the thanks of the students and alumni of Union College for the showTing which they made in the gymnasium last Friday night when facing the Colgate five in good form. The Union bunch started in with a spirit of fight that never waned throughout and built up such a lead that the Maroon aggre- gation was never able to overtake them. Throughout the game they showed that they were there for business and that their spirit of determination was unshakable and their spirit of fight unexhaustible. Colgate put up a strong fight and both tea1ns deserve credit for the high quality of the game. The Garnet team is respon- sible for the fact that we won and they deserve the praise of every Union man for off for having them. Let somebody speak up besides the members of the Concordien- ses Board. It's your paper-use it! SATAN'S ELEGY. The mortars toll the knell of mortal strife Our endless troops pile slowly o'er the sea '\The plown1an, homeless, weeps his murder- ed wife, The world belongs to Wilhelm and to me. Now fades the glimmering landscape in its flames, And all the air with n1ighty thunder rings Save where the shrapnel shrieks at those it . n1a1ms And sharp milrailluse lulls to whom it . stngs. Full n1any a soul from body e'er released Into the dark hereafter set we free; Full n1any a body forms the vulture's feast Or spreads its putrid odor o'er the sea. the style of game that they showed us. Th' homage of weaker nations sought to HELP! For so1ne time past a discussion has been going on in the columns of the Concor- dien.sis. The subject under discussion is the '\'Grind\ and so far four parties have en- tered into the argument. Upon investiga- tion we find that three of these men areal- ready on the Concordiensis Board. We again take occasion to urge that you men of Union College use the columns of your paper to express your sentiments. Is there only one man in Union College outside of the Concordiensis Board who has an opin- ion and is not backward about expressing it? If you have no opinions, you are pretty bad off and if you have them and leave them unexpressed you are not much better . ga1n The thoughts of pain and ruin did despise \\1 e scatter misery o'er a smiling plain, And blind Germania with a century of lies. For we unn1.indful of th' unnumbered dead Do in these lines our glorious tale relate If chance leaves one by whom it may be read, Or nations wish our name to execrate. \Here rests his head, a head of monstrous girth, \Wilhelm to Kulture and to Fame a slave \'fhe Devil used him to destroy the earth, \And to a mad man fates of nations gave.\ R. E. T ., '16. PHI GAMS DINE. The annual Norris dinner of Chi chapter of Phi Gamn1a· Delta \vas held at the chap-

20 THE CONC·ORDIENSIS ter house last Saturday evening. A. A. .A.rmitage of Troy acted as toastmaster while the speakers were F. M. :Willia,ms, E. G. Anderson and rr. L. Rohrer. i\rnong the alu1nni present were E. V. R. Payne, '95; I-I oratio PoUock, '95; Fred Eames, '95; Clinton Jones, '00; Roland H.eed, '05; Harry Cook, '04; Wall ace Mac- n1illan, '1.2; Mason Hotchkiss, '09; Leland v·Vood, '09; An1os Munson, '12; and Walter '\riedn1an '13. After the dinner the Albany graduate chapter held a meeting and elected George Halla, '09, president for the ensuing year. ALUMNI NOTES. \Vith the past two weeks the Alumni Publication Committee, the Commencc- n1ent Con1n1ittee, the Alumni Association Comn1ittee, the Executive Committee and the Records Com1nittee have all held meet- ings on the campus. The graduates have a new plan under consideration and expect to make it public in a couple of weeks. Meanwhile several of the \grads\ have reappeared in their old haunts. Among those welcomed are John C. Van Vost, '42; C. T. Bates, '12; Arson Richards, '95; C. H. l\4:acCullock, '00; J. Edwin Riley, '12; Dr. Carl E. McCombs, '04, and Joseph Clements, Jr., '01. ALL THINGS TO THEIR PLACES. The gherkin was pickled, The fishes were soaked, The cart had a peach of a load, The baker, he had such a bun He 'most croaked At the sight of a staggering toad. And the full moon looked down On a man who was souced As through~ the rainstorm he had rode. \He seems to think more of his steno- grapher than he does of his wife.\ '\Well you know he can dictate to the stenog.\ AT THE PROM Taking a Long Smoke on the Veranda. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Eighth. Junior \iVeek is a fine institution, young ladies. The Innocent Bystander could fill up his allotted space with the greatest ease in the world by telling you just how it adds 1 ustre to the fair name of Union, how it serves as a respite from toil, how it gives us a chance to show others how much we think of them, how it gives a Prom and Soiree committee gray hair prematurely, and so on ad infinitum. If he did, however, there would be nothing to talk of between dances. Just think of it, 52 dances to dance in two evenings! 'l~he Innocent Bystander has son1ething else of which he may chirp. It is this- why not extend the Junior Week spirit, young ladies, to the other thirty-nine weeks of the college year? No, we don't want a Prom or house parties every week. You don't want us permanently to be broke, do you? .Almost every week, however, we have son1ething or other that adds as mucl1 dig- nity to the name of the college as do two .; ;~' ,.,. I :. h t~ ! \ I· I I I

.. ! i I· I I I THE CONCORDIENSlS 21 glorious dances. We have a series of eight Ichabod Spencer lectures, nominally on psychology., but this year they were of a kind so broad as to allow the most inexper- ienced amateurs to derive enjoyment. We also have t\vo or three debates a year. lT nion's debating tean1 meets bigger col--- leges than its footba11 tea1n. We .are also booked for a series of lectures by Alfred Noyes, the clever young English poet. Sometimes our Classical Club, Chemical Society, and so forth., hold public meetings to which the public is in vi ted. The idea is this. Junior Week is valuable because it affords profitable entertainment to the student and young lady he escorts, and also because it gives the college the right sort of advertising. But so do these other events. You probably haven't been asked to them, fair damsels, because the young men did not supose that you would be interested. Show him how silly he is. Make it plain that you are so full of Union spirit that anything at all under the aus- pices of Union College, whether it be so- cial or intellectual, arouses your interest. If he \iVon't invite you, tell him you know son1eone who will. The Innocent Bystander is not trying to turn our students or their fair friends into \Grinds.\ He values his young life far too rnuch for that (See previous Concordys for explanation.) The Innocent Bystander is a good-natured scout, and perfectly reason- able, even though some of the fifteen or six- teen dictionary definitions of \Innocent\ \vould not seem to do him credit. Quit call- ing me na1nes, Gus. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. FRESHMEN MAKE DEBUT. The freshmen had their cotning out party last week in 'rroy at the usual place-the R.ensselaer Inn. The upper classmen ex- pected a pretty good banquet in view of the fact that they had been con1pelled to wait so long for it. They were not disappointed for the affair was a grand success. It vvas difficult to keep the time and place of the dinner from the sophomores but the first year men succeeded until all danger of capturing Gilman, the president, and Faust, the chairman, was over. In order not to be late for the gala event, about fifteen frosh left the \hill\ Tuesday, arrived in Troy whole-haired and safe and spent the night and the next day at the Rensselaer. Their classmates who left the campus early \Vednesday morning were not so for- tunate for the sophs had gotten wind of their chartered car which was to leave at 5 a. m. When the sleepy-eyed freshmen, who had stolen from warm beds at the break of dawn into the icy blast of the morning, had reached the rendezvous the sophs were awaiting them with murder in their eyes. A battle ensued which rivalled Austerlitz for fierceness, but it was brought to an abrupt end when a dozen or more of- ficers of the law galloped down upon the belligerents firing revolvers in the air. The sophs ignomiously fled and the frosh transport set forth under full sail. The sophs, left behind, took the next car for Troy, disporting themselves in the mean- time at cutting the sunny curls of various detached freshmen about the town. Sev- eral of the freshmen were also intercept.ed in Troy by the sophs and shorn. Early in the evening son1e valiant sophs gained access to the dining hall and sprink- led the place profusely with some evil stnelling concoction of Louis Mann's. By burning sugar and opening wide the win- do\vs, however, the banquet room was made fairly livable by the tin1e the guests filed in. President Gilman was toastmaster and Charley Waldron, Jeff Delchatnps, Lynde Hokerk, Blodget and Steve Story spoke. Don't insist on lending your trouble to other people. They n1ight pay it back with interest some day.

( l :! ,. ,. ;'i, ,. ,. ' ,· r r • I ... ,. 22 THE CONCORPIENSIS Published weakly by the Editor-in-Chief and others. SAD BUT TRUE. \Hoffy\ says that after tracing the exist- ence of certain bacteria far back in the his- tory of the hun1an race a famous bac- tereologist decided that bacteria have ex- isted as long as have human beings. Sum- ming_ this up in 'vhat he scientist claims to be the shortest poen1 in the English lang- uage, he says, \Adam \Had 'em.\ Not wishing to leave the ladies out of the proposition, \Bone\ Gardner has construct- ed a second stanza to the poem. \Bone\ says, \Even Adam \Had 'em.\ A. sample of the poetry handed in to Dr. Chase by members of the sophomore class appears below: BASI<ETBALL. Basketball's a grand old game And those who play it win great fame, But not for me ! I think too much of my small frame. \\i\lhen you bump your nose upon the floor And some gent steps on your front door, You must get up and holler, \n1ore !\ Not for n1e! A LITTLE POEM. Entitled: \The Tutes on a Toot.\ 'iVhen Johnny came marching home was he A soldier or a sailor? And where did Johnny march, I ask:, And wher'd the King Chase Taylor? The King Chased Taylor up a Hill ; Behind the Barnes hid Taylor; But I can't say if John came home As soldier or as sailor, Binks: Why don't you buy an autom 0- bile? Jinks : Can't afford it. Binks : Afford what? Jinks: A Ford. Binks : I said, an automobile. Jinks: V\T ell if I can't afford a Ford, what can I afford? Nuf Sed. Some people count their chickens before they buy an incubator; others cross the bridge before the engineer begins to design it. Friend: \I see Waters, the tailor, going to your studio quite often; is he sitting for you?\ Artist: \No he's laying for me.\ ANOTHER TRAGEDY. First Act- Freshman Pompadour Scissors Sophomore Second Act- Freshman Sophon1ore Scissors Nothing more. Third Act- Freshman Profanity Looking glass Insanity. Curtain. ,· ,,. > '

he ' • >t' ' ,. ~ ' '•: A HAIR RAISING R;QMANCE. Rev. Frank 0. Hokerk, who has been mar- ried 25 years, is such a young looking man that when his son Lynde came home fron1 college wearing a mustache Pastor Ho- kerk was taken by several ~or the son. The dominie persuaded Lynde to use a razor on the 'tache and now they look like broth- ers.-Gloversville Leader. THE WHIFFLEPOOF. 'Twas Junior Week and on the Hill Dan Cupid, sought mamma's advice. vVith arrows he was wont to fill His quiver, and his face with rice. Beware the whifflepoof my boy Quoth Venus as she worked the pump. The cardioid is not a toy Until your prey is on the stump. In his right tnit he took the bow And sought for gan1e ne'er sought before. On Stoneheart's soul he stumped his toe, . ' And from his chest, the jiblets to:te·. And as he hunted one by one The hearts that ne'er had loved before, The whifflepoof he'd learned to shun Can1e promenading down the floor. Then zip and zing and zing and woof The trusty bow-string strained and sprung, At last the deadly whifflepoof fiad felt an arrow in his lung. \And is the whifflepoof in love?\ Quoth Mother Venus in her glee. Come to my arms my Danish dove At last, my son, hurray, hurree! 'Tvvas Junior Week and on the Hill T·he whifflepoof at last was caught; .And many a happy Jack and Jill The diamond agent's hardware sought. 23 \i'lith apologies to Lewis Carroll. SKYMPZUN .. ON GUARD! A Communication. ·Today we An~ericans \hear the distant thunder- hum\ of war in Europe, and exer- cising our prerogatives of freedon1 of speech and aetion, we gauge our conduct according to our several and individual likings. Son~e of us take Tommy's lead soldiers away lest he beco1ne so brutal that he bite Fido; others to preserve neutrality patriotically refrain from singing ''Tipperary,\ while others recom1nend a policy of speedy dis- arn1an1ent. \Militaris1n the peace-doves coo, is the cause of the present war, yet they fail to observe the fact that tho' England and Gern1any were never at war together before, England is now Germany's most hated enen1y-th~ nation who gave her the closest rub comn1ercially. Still the same people advocate a n1erchant 1narine by \vhich we can take away the trade of the belligerents and place ourselves in the same position for a war as soon as one or both of the \V\ factions decide that we are their n1ost dangerous commercial rivals. Yet they would do nothing to defend their interests, but would rather rely on son1e abstract prin- ciple that men are suddenly going to be- con~e good after this war and start right in on the millenium. Possibly so, but person- ally we disfavor the idea of preventing rains by taking the roofs off our houses. But why need the anti-militarists raise so loud and discordant a wail of woe? We who love Atnerica as well as they, have a plan for her defense far n~ore wieldly and far less burdensome than any of the existant forn1s of militarism. President Hibben of Prince- ton suggests it. It is just this: To give mili- tary training as a part of the course in every school and college in the United States. The expense would be n~ore than repaid by the value of the discipline and training to our ---

24 THE' CONCORDIEN:SIS youth and at the same time our nation would have a yearly increasing trained army of from ten to fifteen million men ready to respond to the call to arms in case of need. Meantime, no greater outlay need be put on our present defenses than is necessary to keep thetn in proper condition. There is nothing aggressive in the policy to inspire foreign animosity. There is no burden of taxation laid upon our own people. But there is an efficient fighting force that we can rely on, for the army that can march and shoot will always be respected. Let all who read this consider. We are at peace now. We desire to be in the future. Now is the time to be on guard! A QUESTIONAIRE AT B'ROWN. A questionaire conducted by the Dean of Brown University among the undergrad- uates elicited many facts of general inter- est to colleges. Answers to the question, What was your object in seeking a college education show- ed that 17 were preparing for the ministry, 18 for medicine, 48 for law, 77 for engineer- ing, 19 to become chemists, 34 for teaching, 2 for journalism, 44 for business, 55 for educational work and 201 for general educa- tion. Eighty-one students made changes in their original plans after entering college. Four hundred and thirty-four of the 515 n1en came to Brown of their own choice. Answers to the question, Why did you come to Brown University? show that 137 came because they lived in or near Providence and could board at ho1ne, 28 came because of opportunity here for outside work, 17 came because they were able to secure schol- arship aid, 63 ca1ne through advice of mem- bers of the family or friends, 22 came through advice of alumni, 43 came because Brown was a small college, 34 came through advice of teachers in preparatory schools, 8 can1e because Brown admits by certificate, 18 came because of the engineering courses, 33 came because Brown had the reputation of being democratic and 6 came because Brown is an eastern college. The average age of the entering student was 18.8 years. Answers to the questi·on, \What courses in college have you found most interesting?\ and \What courses in ·college have you found the most serviceable in preparation for your future work?\ show that 190 students regard ed biology as the most interesting in college, and 94 regarded the same subject as the most serviceable in preparation for the fu- ture. One hundred and fourteen regarded chemistry as the most interesting, and 104 as the most serviceable. Two hundred and eight regarded English as the most inter- esting, and 174: as the most serviceable. One hundred and six regarded history as the most interesting and 54 as the most service- able. One hundred and twenty-three re- garded mathematics as the most interest- ing, and 106 regarded the same subject as the most serviceable. The average time spent in preparation for lecture and reci ta- tion was 1.4: hours. REORGANIZATION OF THE CON- CORDY. At the weekly meeting of the Concor- liensis Board on January 22, Editor-in- Chief Delchamps appointed a committee to draw up a constitution for the board. On this comn1i ttee were placed Nathaniel Finch, chairman, David Chapman and Har- old Coole The purpose of reorganizing the board is to lessen the work of the editor-in- chief and to increase the duties of the other editors. At present the editor-in-chief has the entire work to do after the reporters hand in their write-ups. This, consequent- ly, takes more time than one n1an ought to give. At the n1eeting last Monday night, a con- stitution was submitted to be voted on at ; .·; I \ l I ) ; ... I .!

ses, . ent . ln ?\ . ge, fu- ne as t ; I \ I ) I r\ ... ~,. .·.:~ 1 :(-.;~ ., ~ ~ .. :. -:·; I .! ; .•· I i THE CONCORDIENSIS 25 the next meeting. The proposed constitution equally as- signs the work of editing and publishing the paper among the senior members of the board. Also the business manager is brought into closer touch with the editing part and staff of the paper. Through this proposed plan, of which a longer article will be printed in the next issue, the com- mittee has endeavored to obtain the de- sired result. THE ''U'' BRAID Popular hair dressing for Union College affairs. LANGUID THOUGHTS OF A LAZY SENIOR. Time. In spite of the fact that the saying, \Titnc is money\ is generally accepted as being correct in a sense, still there are some who look upon the statement doubtfully and others who flatly deny its truth. The Lazy Senior being a person who flatly denies anything that he possibly can, desires a chance of exposing his views on the subJect. Time, according to his idea, is not money but is a commodity rather like money in one sense but entirely different from it in many others. Mon_ey is a convenient medium of exchange. Some have much of it while others have but a little. Time on the other hand is distributed equally among the rich and poor alike and each one of us is re- quired to spend it as fast as he gets it. There is no such thing as hoarding up time; we must live up to our time income each day and exchange it for something which will be a boon or a detriment to ourselves and to others. When the Lazy Senior wakes up in the morning at about quarter after seven he becomes conscious of the fact that his check book contains about nine hundred and forty-five minutes which must be drawn and spent before the respectable hour for retiring again comes around. If he doesn't wake up until eight fifteen he finds that he has already drawn sixty minutes of this and spent them for sleep, forfeiting his breakfast at the same time and losing out on an eight o\clock class. Perhaps he will sneak down into the kitchen while no one is looking and get the chef to feed him and perhaps the kind professor may be per- suaded to allow him to make the absence up but he must spend more time in these processes. The extra hour which he spent in bed is commonly called lost time but is really only time n1isspent. N O\V and then the Lazy Senior finds that he has a rather dull :fifty minutes or so to spend between classes and, without think ... ing seriously upon the matter, picks up a trashy novel of some sort and reads until the time is spent and his attention is re- quired elsewhere. Con1n1only speaking, he has killed an hour, but correctly speaking he has spent an hour in a rather unprofit- able n1anner.

26 THE C.ONCORDIENSIS If time is a comn1odity, son1e will say, one man could buy another's twenty-four hours and have forty-eight for himself. This is not exactly true because time is in the same peculiar class of commodities as is labor. When you buy a man's labor you m~erely buy the right of specifying how he shall put forth his energy toward the ac- complishing of son1e task which you wish to see con1pleted. So when you buy a man's titne you again buy merely the right of specifying how he shall spend this time--not the right of spending it yourself for such and exchange would be in1possible. If every student of Union College would begin now and demand a receipt for every minute which he spends from now on one would not hear so n1any complaints of, \I didn't have time\ in the future. If you spend eight hours in sleep, look rested; if you make a daily expenditure for exercise, see that you gain in strength; if you spend a cer- tain amount daily for study, see that you store a proportional amount of knowledge in your brain. You have twenty-four hours to spend each day and must spend exactly that much and no more. The Lazy Senior advises that you look ahead and decide in what department of the world's store you may spend most profitably. Ten minutes planning will not be wasted but rather spent in a manner highly conducive to the maxi- mum efficiency. looked up to with a distant and mysterious aV\re and reverence as a demigod, \a little lower than the angels/' As such his \im- portance'' was unquestionable hut his value to the community was negligible, save as he served as a pole star by which the Afner- ican ship of education was guided through the storm and stress of pioneer days and early imin1gration. But today his position is different. So fast have educational in- stitutions turned out their finished product, that he is now one among and no longer one fron1 the body politic. In his new posi- tion he finds his proper use and purpose, namely that of a blending element. Wher- ever college men and women forn1 even a stnall percentage of the population of a co1nmunity, the air of culture and refine- ment of the place is immediately noticeable even among their neighbors who are them- selves not college trained. It is to secure this influence that should be and is the chief aim of the American college of today. THE COLLEGE MAN AND THE AMERICAN. With the rapid increase in institutions of higher education and the popularity of col- lege education, the college ·graduate is be- coming an important factor in the nation's population. 1\\he meaning of the expres- sion, \becoming important\ must not be 1nisconstrued. 1-..rue, the college man in a certain sense has always been an important person. In the old days, he was important as a kind of 1nental magician whom people In the first place, the culture of the Greeks and Romans is directly transplanted by the classical courses from the ancient 1vorld to the new community where the col- lege man takes up his abode. It may not even be a conscious effort on his part, since through years of study the ancient culture has become a part of himself and is reflected by him in direct proportion to the power of his personality. It is, however, a grievous mistake to imagine that the only sources of culture are the ancient classical writers. The very atmosphere of lecture room and library is cultured, while the well equipped museum is still the haunt of the Muses. The ethics of the greatest Greek philosoph- ers can have no greater effect in developing a genuine code of honor than the correct vvorking of the increasingly popular honor system. Politically our American institutions would profit by lessons from college politics. Were the \no-deal·\ system to becotne a • .~; I) \ i.Jl 't ,' i. •,, j '' ,•, ·.';

m- as . • .,.. .. ~~.~ .... 1 ~' >t t ,::1 ·.; ;' ~ ; ~ r\ t . ~; I) \ i.Jl ' ; ,' I ' '• j THE CONCORDI:ENSIS 27 I 1 • I e· • • 11at1ona1 tnshtuhon as to son1e extent 1t 1s hound to with the increase in number of college men, our nation would be _as just as it is great, while if government officials were chosen on their merits as team man- agers are, boss rule would be as dead as Nero. Among a sport-loving people like the Americans, the influence o£ the college man is sure to be of immeasurable importance. It is in our colleges that athletic sports and contests are held for their own sake with no ulterior aim. The result is that the college 1nan is the true sportsman in the best sense of the word, possessing qualities which are of unlin1ited ilnportance in any line of activity he may pursue, for as athlete or rooter, he gains self control, fair play, cour- age and resolution in the face of adversity and a score of other qualities which make for success in all he undertakes . The social and. religious side of the col- lege man need only be mentioned. In col- lege, he n1eets the aristocracy of the re- public, the best blood of the land, with all its polish and refinement. The college Y. M. C. A. and chapel keep constantly fore- nlost in his mind the idea of the Supreme Being, while the foreign missions are al- most exclusively supported by college grad- uates. Such are the elements that make the col- lege man or woman the leading citizen, the super-An1erican and in the light of their privileges should they regard their respon- sibility to influence, to encourage, to lead the less fortunate of our own and Europe's millions to the lofty standards of the true American citizen. HEGEMAN. THE COST OF WAR. The \British Architect\ gives the follow- ing bill of i terns sent in by an artist for re- pairs made to the properties of an old Bel- gian church : Correcting ten con1mandn1ents _____ $ 5 12 Embellished Pontius Pilot and put ne'v ribbon on his bonnet -------- 3 02 Put new tail on the rooster of St. p,eter and mended his comb ------- 2 20 Replumed and gilded the left plun1e of the guardian angel ----------- 4 18 Washed the servant of the High Priest and put carn1ine on his neck 5 12 Renewed Heaven, adjusted the stars and cleaned the tnoon ----------- 7 14 Reanimated the :fires of Purgatory and restored souls --------------- 3 06 Raised the flames of hell, put a new tail on the Devil, mended his left hoof and did several jobs for the dan1ned ------------------------ 7 17 Rebordering the robes of Herod and readjusting his wig ------------ 4 00 Cleaved the ears of Balaam's ass and shod him ----------------------- 3 02 l\f ended the shirt of the Prodigal Son and cleaned his ears ------------ 4 00 Total --------------------------$48 03 FROM A FRESHMAN'S DIARY. Found By a Young Lady. \F\ell out of bed.\ January 28, 1915. \Fell in with an old pal.\ \Fell for his line of talk.\ \Fell up the steps.\ \Fell out with n1y old girl.\ \Fell in love with a new one.\ ''Fell asleep.\ \The just man falleth seven times a day.\ DARTMOUTH'S WINTER CARNIVAL. An intercollegiate ski and snowshoe meet, the first of its kind ever held in the United States, features the programme for Dart- tnouth's annual 'vinter carnival to -be held February 13.

i t I i. ' ', I f ' ., l . j l ' . I ; 28 THE CONCORD.IENSIS FEMININE SPRITE: ''Dont be alarmed! Just tell me is my halo on straight?\ PRINCETONIANS TO BE SOLDIERS. Nearly 50 Princeton students have signed papers approving the formation of a mili- tary company, the plan for which was fav- orably received by the faculty some tin1e ago. Niembership will be voluntary and will entail no compulsion in time of war. The government has offered to supply an of- ficer for drills and also the necessary arms and ammunition. J! L.~~ ,. I. r p ( ·' I I \ l

of- ' : 1 ' . , I i . j :1 I I i ; ' ~: :·.:i ,'·· ~ , r I '\ \' l I, ~' ' ! J! L.~~ ,. I ( ·' ',' I ·'< I' \ ', t If you want anything {rDm QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 12 8 5 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as its relation to quality. $3.00 would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful high price to pay for a \movie.\ Steefel prices now are 25% off - the qualities are of the \opera'' type-high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our prices we say good-bye to profits-the farewell isn't sad, however, because it sends out our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. .NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & tOe Wall Paper Stare 411 STATE S'TREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT .STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two of the newest lasts for young men who kee.p apace with the ehoe fashions. Correct tor college, school or business. Natty enough for dress wear. · $4 !- $6 .A ~IR aO sTYLEs Values like these are only possible in a metropolitan l!t t ore Uke Patton & Hall's. PATrON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Belew tile Brtda'e.

{ ' ·, .~ ~ ' . .. I . I 1 l ' ) ., ,. L .. ( More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 There is no Music Like Giocia's Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in,------------------- Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4--PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection AU of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. SCHWARTZ N·EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groce.ries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. Ra! Ra! Ra! Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid Cluh, College Representative The Studio of MABELLE PRIMMER 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3fulius £gtr ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED THE ' BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable ,. ('

[t y r l. '• ' ' ' .. ·. ';,, '·· i ~ . Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OlLS Dealers in all kinds of Wa:x Polishea ·212 So. Centre ,St. A. R. Zita' s Orchestra ~~· ~ ~ ~· Walk~Over shoes will take dj - you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union College 1905 '·06 '07 '08 '09 'I 0 • I I ' I 2 ' I 3 & '14 ',, ' ' ' ' Best Dance Music in the World g,~~· J~·~r::~!:::~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Concert Office and Res., 16 7 Hamilton St.' Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell ,Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER ·Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 1'26 State Street Eyes Tested and GlAsses Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography uw atch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

,! o' i ', ' l :· ; ~ ~' ! l ; I ' .~:· :: i . ;t· ' ( &. : l: : ' ~· ' r v ~; ~ ~ ; I l t-: ' ~ j ' t ; ,· ·'· ( t· I' I . r; ' , 1·.·. ~·· I . \: I l ', :. ; ' t' l : f. I 4 f 1 1 ' I I · I·· t. , • < ! ' f: I u . I !. ·.· l' .. '<-:: . . I ! ., : HI · t I ! I. 1 ~ '·· ! I j l L 1 i I: !: ~ ,, ) ' ' , I ' )'' r ., I .) [. ' ,' ~ ; r I I I f: i I lji l j · r ~- 1 l I! (' L ;. \· ,· I !' ! j ,. :. i t , I' f ' l' ;, l tl i\ f. i ~ \ ~ ., ~ \. ~. 1: i I I' ( ! I I ' i Men of Fashion Smoke ''Bull'' Durham After a big night at the opera, men who subscribe to boxes for the season-masters of the fine art of enjoyment-relish fresh, delicious cigarettes of \Bull\' Durham tobacco while waiting for their limousines. Theirs are the strong, active hands of self .. achieve- ment-capable of controlling the destinies of an industry, or of \rolling their own.,, \Bull'' Durham cigarettes with equal success. GE·NUINE .. BULL DURHAM .SMOKING TOBACCO Cigarettes rolled with this pure, mild, sun-mellow- ed tobacco are supremely gratifying to the trained smoke taste-their freshness, Aalt lor FREE smoothness and distinctive, ::i~ka:;:t ·;:\:::~: uinque fragrance, delightful be- yond comparison. That is why connoisseurs throughout the worl~ prefer to \roll their own\ cigarettes with \Bull\ Durham. FREE An I_llustrated Booklet, showmg correct --n~ way to \RollY our -·- Own\ Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on request. Address \Bull\ Durham. Durham, N. C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. j

THE UNION of a Sophomore or Freshman with a few dolars which wHI stay by bi·m until he is a Senior can be effected by an occasional deposit in The Schenectady Savin~s Bank COR. STATE AND CLlNTON The Gleason Book Co. The Edison 104 Jay Street Gleason Building \On your way to the post office\ American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Dcealers in College Goods too numerous to include in the Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N.Y. \Concordy\ The PURE FOOD Store I!I THE MOHICAN MARKEl l! ·. P\\'l Iii . The Big Store Arou,nd. the Corner r. 161 JAY ST~EET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

l 1 l' l : ! :· I : I I I ! ! ! I The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full - Dress Acceessories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters \!he newest in hats at aU times The Schenectady Clothing Co. 313·315 State Stre.et Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALEE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING · CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street •Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT SHOES Reductions on Winter Weight s.hoes worth your while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. K.ENNEY CUSTOM TA·ILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes .fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the.lowest Cash Prices. J QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street J I '',;'~ ~ :j . ' r f '

y r ··t I :.:~::}\ ',,(,,':.~c . Stoll's Ho!hrauhaus 162-64-68 Jay Street, Schenectady, N .. Y .. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Propa A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Sch artz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made'' Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, W edgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp .. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker Schenectady Taxicab Service CoB Phone 4489. E IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk & Leather Goods Store Buy bagl!age with the 5 year guarantee ,.~,.:wA 'Y,s 177 Jay Street -~- llO No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~'i'( Albany, N. Y. REP A~ RING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A. G~ Spalding & Bros. 520 1 ~~h 1 ~v~~N~~s¥~:~ Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 423 Union St. Schenectady, N.Y. 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCI{ OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery C. A. Whelan & Co. is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN ? : = ... - ·: : '!\': .,,. .• Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. ~ 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press . 1

n d 0 00 co ::J ~· u ~ < u ~ 00 ~ ::E C:il 0 C:il ~ ~ 0 u z 0 ~ z ~ ~ :I: ~

1J s a i 1 I, II lj ' I \ I I I ' . I J } ., - z 0 - r..,..' - :c

l VOL. 38 PVBLISHEDaWf.?EKLY BY· THe STVDE NTS ·OF m VNHOI\I- C OLL EG E FEBRUARY 11th, 1915 NO. 14

I ' i ; ' ' . ; ' ' \ : ~ . f . i : ) \ : . i . ! •', ; l ' : ... f i ' {· i ,. .. ,. '. ,, ' ',· ,··· . . ·.. .... l : ·1·.~ CHARLES ALEXANDEJR RICHMOND, D. Da, LL. D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Cenrses leading to the degree of A. B .. CLASSICAL CoURSE A.-. Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree o:f Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the degree of B. s. SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of Bo E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRsE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Courses leading to graduate deg·rees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This coutse of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, 'f obacc.o, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE or M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSE LEADING ro DltGREE or P:a:. D.- This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis~ sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary~ Schenectady, N. Yo DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA ]. PARKER, }. NEwToN FinRo!J President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N.Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. HuESTED, Secretaryt 11 Everything for the College Man except Exam9'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. College Phone 1472a W Fink's· Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ .\ ·. ( ,. '

',· ,··· ists of course admis~ by prac- forma- Y. RO.I! Dean. of state to its B. is fee, Y. seven ress: Y. ' ' ... I '' ~:,• • ' . : . . ·.: •, I : . . · 1 ·. ': /.' (,.' ' '' TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LA TEST STYLES---MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea are worn. AU styles and leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAIL STS. The Cain's Leading exponents of Modern Dancing in Schenectady and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri- vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS ~~9ia:~:;:; CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & ·w. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

; ' ( . l i >· I r 1, ; l ,. ·, ·, i: !. ,, f. ~;\ ' I ) I, ,, '• ;: . : ~ l ' \ ! ' '· ' ,. ~· .. ! l i ,. l ~ ·' !: . . ' ,• \ . i l' ' (' {; i t t.' I .. t I f· ' l ~ I ; , .. \ ;f I. I, '· l : \ 1 I ' ! ( I • ' ' l I ~ I I, I J . ' '! ·. t l, ,1, I' \ I ' ' ! ; ! ~ l l I i l ,. I I I l ; 1 I / I ' i I I ' I ' ! i I ' ' ' I I I Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready ma;de clothes because they are the e.qual of the finest custom tailo·r',s output. We are sole agents in this tri·city territory for Rogers Peet Co. a·nd ''The Frankel Fifteen'' ' (The greotest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in -the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as o-.e did in by-gone days. Neither would you ha v- ing your shoes repai-red by the old .style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S ·QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS Higgins' ( Drawin• lnln I Eternal Writin• Ink En•roasin• Ink I Taurine Mu<:il••• i Photo Mounter Patte I Drawin~ Board Paate Liquid Paate l Office Paate V elletable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND ~BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS .AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 438 State Street Free Order Service Opposite Jay Street 271 Ninth,St. Telephone 3456 Brooklyn, N. Y· The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street,

• Paate Paate etc. YES be a 10 I . y. ·,,···. ' ~. r .. . ' \',, ·'f ., ·--~ Maurice Costello Famoua Moving Picture Actor, aaya: _,The great tlaing about Tuxedo is the fact that it gives lull fraerance and flavor together with extreme mildne••· I find Tuxedo not only the height ol pipe enjoyment but a distinct beneFit because it give• just the proper degree oF relaxa- tion. Tuxedo i• undoubtedly an exceptional tobacco. '' ~ \As Popular As The Movies'' TUXEDO Tuxedo answers every smoke desire-every little palate craving, every longing for the one Perfect Pipe and Cigarette tobacco. No matter when or how you smoke Tuxedo it sends right into your heart a glim- mer of Gladsome Sunshine. And you can just about hear the honeybees buzz in the far-off gardens. The Perfect Tohacco /or Pipe anJ Cigarette Sings into your system a song of keen delight. It spreads real happiness and cheer because it's smok- able, lovable, all day. all night-no matter how the weather fits. Tuxedo's flavor is so enticingly mild and delicately fragrant it will not irritate the most sensitive throat. Simply the choicest mild leaves of _ grand old Kentucky Burley-ripe, rich, fragrant and mellow- made into delicious tobacco that smokes as smooth as cream. That's Tuxedo. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE CoayeaieDt, ala•aiae -wrapped, Sc moiatare-proof pouch. • • • In Tin Humidor& 40c and 80c Famous lfeea tim, with gold } o letteriD1, C11l\fed to fit pocket C In Glass Humidors SOc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

i! ; !'i <I ' '·• ~ ] , r ! ' , I 'l! : I I~~ ! I' lJ i l ' ' I II i 1: J) i 1: Say Fellows: Bring in your laundry and save money ·.To Cure Cold Note these Prices~ Shirts all Kinds ..................... lOc , Collars ................ , .............. 2'c Union Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . ........... 6c each Hose ......... ~ ...... ~ ...... 3c per pair Handkerchiefs ........•..•.........•. 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 7 38 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, Gowns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraitie• frOm the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a apecialty UNION STUDENTS Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . BUY A GAS HEATER MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' 1\rt ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N. Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN Th S h t d 'T t C UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY e c enec a y rus o. 318-320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y.

- , r-rt· ··,···rnt?· Y. Y. \ ', ,, \ Clothing ·• K EEL E R ' S Furnishings .. EuRoPEAN-- Hats HOTEL We're ready whenever you our. Why not com·e to-day? The newest and best in each department. .~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' lj1 Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No .. bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. ~and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadwar and Maiden :Lane :Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies'· Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty-five Private Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex:, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of. retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323- J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schene ..... tady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street \Look for the Cow's Head.t•

I . I i i ' I . I Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison is the · . Lever That Turns FOR YOUNG MEN . Trade Our Way · This is: tbe busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see els~where, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presented at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's I AM YOUR ~EAREST SHOEMAKER G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W N. Y. Phone 1270-W All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items: Men's soles, sewed ________ 7S.c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 4Qc Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 6Qc Men's Heels ---------------25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 803 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES -- -- ____ -- -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.76 \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 lPlO WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 CARL DANNER. Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARN·EY'S Collelle Repre1entative 1908 1914 1915 are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function.· The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody&Co.,Inc. Makers Let's Meet at ''Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298- W. '122 Eastern Ave. :.i ; '.'~

:.i ·, The Concordiensis VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 11, 1915 N0.14 UNION ADDS ANOTHER VICTORY. Game is Uninteresting and Springfield is Easily Vanquished. Union over-w·helmed Springfield Training School here last Saturday night by the lop- sided score of 41 to 18. After the first few minutes of play and except for a short time in the second period the game was not in- teresting. Springfield's good reputation may have deterred the Garnet from starting off with the same dash and spirit which won the Colgate game, but in a few mom- ents the hon1e team was piling up baskets with amazing regularity. The game began by beip.g a close hacking scrimmage, but after a few moments .Union spread out and by clever passwork scored the first basket of the evening. In another moment \'reedy\ Woods had dropped the ball twice successively into the circle and after him Erny Houghton, Jimmy Mudge, and the Beavers repeated the operation with facilitv. \' . Union scored eleven points before Spring- field scored, and the half ended with a total of Union 20, Springfield 5. In the second half Springfield showed a spurt that brought her total up to 15. While the Training School five was scoring these 10 points Union failed to score. Then a shot by Houghton broke the spell, and Union pulled away swiftly from the Massa- chusetts team, scoring at will. Dave Beaver collided with a duo of Springfield men and came out the loser by a sanguinary gash beside his right eye. Zim- mer took his place. A few moments later Fred Dawson called off two of the dogs of war-Woods and M udge-and sent in Moynihan and Hummer to take their places. Mudge started his first. gan1e for the Union quintet and played well. His guarding was espe~ially fine while he shot four baskets. \Teedy\ Woods was especially good Sat- urday night. He ran up a total of five bas- kets and kept his opponent from scoring. :tie was everywhere, all over the floor, at just the right time, and his assists were re- sponsible £or a number of baskets more. Erny Houghton had a good night and to- ward the end of the game found himself in regard to shooting fouls. The changing of the foul line recently made has for the last few games kept him from shooting fouls with his usual uncanny accuracy. But after a few misses early in the game, he began again and was exceptionally successful. His guarding was close and his floor work fast. He scored four field goals. Dave Beaver who, because of his injury, did not play the whole game, did some .of the pret- tiest work seen this year in assisting and floor work; while Brother Jake had a gala night all round. Zimmer, Hummer and Moynihan got in the game in the last :five minutes of play and worked out well. They achieved no scoring, but it is good enough when going into a game cold and without experience of 'varsity ball to keep an opponent from an

I f I ' l 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. undue number of baskets. The encouraging point about the game was that the team worlied excellently to- gether. Most all the scoring was done after illusive passwork down the floor. As usual they started off with a rush. This rush continued all through the first half-longer than hitherto-and completely paralyzed Springfield. In the second half as usual the team let up considerably and allowed Springfield five field goals in succession. But after :five minutes of slower work, Union came back again, and with a second spurt that sen1ed almost incredible. 1~hey practically doubled their score in the last ten minutes. This second whirlwind streak has not been so apparent before. If the team, however, is going to play its usual reinark- able first ten minutes in the :first half, and then comes back in the second and winds up the game with another spurt just as fast and typhoonish-well, we don't like to boast. The score: SUMMARY. Score at half time-Union, 20; Springfield, 5. Fouls committed-Union, 5; Springfield, 9. Referee-Tilden. A SUCCESSFUL JUNIOR WEEK Junior Week opened Thursday evening with the Sophomore Soiree. The Gym was decorated very attractively with garnet and \Vhite bunting and greens. The programs were in the shape of leather card cases. This dance was not very well attended, prob- ably on account of the small number of house parties on the \hill.\ The patronesses for the Soiree were : Mrs. Charles Alexander Richmond, Mrs. Benjamin H. Ripton, Mrs. Frank S. Hofftnan, Mrs. Olin H. Landreth ; Mrs. J an1es I-I. Stoller, Mrs. Edward E. Hale, Jr., l\1rs. Ernest J. Berg, Mrs. John I. Bennett, Mrs. Ed-vvard Ellery, Mrs. Frank C. Barnes, Mrs. Horace G. McKean, Mrs. C. F. Garis, Mrs. Wilbert A. Garrison, Mrs. George J. I~yon, Mrs. Morton C. Stewart, Mrs. Morland King, Mrs. ]. A. C. Callan, Mrs. George Dwight Kellogg, Mrs. C. N. Waldron, Mrs. S. P. Chase, J\4:rs. Walter L. Upson, lVIrs. Robert T. Hill, Mrs. G. Hunt- ley, Mrs. M. F. Sayre, Mrs. Hartley F. Dewey, Mrs. Fred T. Dawson, Mrs. Daniel }.Taylon, Jr., Mrs. Olin Hallock, Mrs. A. H. Kruesi, Mrs. R. I-I. Gibbs, Mrs. G. H. Chap- man, Mrs. Evan R. Cullins, Mrs. W. F. Lambie, Mrs. G. Marcellus Clowe, Mrs. C. E. Akin, Mrs. R. J. Landon, Mrs. Joseph H. Clen1ents, Jr., Mrs. J. W. Yelverton, Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, Jr., Mrs. Harold Star- buck, l\1rs. EdwardS. \ 1 rooman, Mrs. C. D. Hawn, Mrs. J. L. Moon, Mrs. W. H. Waite, Mrs .. A .. T. Galbriath, Mrs. H. W. Peck, l\1rs. V. Travis, Mrs. G. 0. Truex and Mrs. P. McDermott. UNION. F.B. F.P. T.P. ]. Beaver, r.f. ______ 3 0 6 Mudge, l.f. ----·---- 4 0 8 Moynihan, l.f. ------- 0 0 0 Woods, c. -----·---- 5 0 10 Houghton, l.g. _____ 4 5 13 Hummer, c. -------- 0 0 0 D. Beaver, r.g. ----- 2 0 0 Zimmer, r.g. ---·---- 0 0 0 Totals _..., ________ 18 5 41 SPRINGFIELD. F.B. F.P. T.P. Miller, r.f. ---·------· 2 0 4 McClure, l.f. ------- 3 0 6 Souder, r.f. -------- 1 2 4 Bell, r.g. ----------- 0 0 0 Whalen, l.g. -------- 2 0 4 Granfield, l.g. --·---- 0 0 0 Shea, c. ----·------- 0 0 0 Totals ---------- 8 2 18 Friday afternoon the Musical Clubs pro- duced a pleasing concert in the college chapel. On Friday evening came the crowning event of Junior Week, the Junior Prom. The Prom proved to be the most I ~ ·' I .

field, J.eld, .. .. . 11ng was and ams rhis ~ob­ . of ;ses lder d:rs. ~th; E. 1 I. :tnk [rs. [rs. :trt, an, N. L. nt- F. .iel H. tp- F. c. ph rs. tr- D. :e, k, ·s. )- re ) te >r ;t I ~ ·' I . THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 brilliant social function ever held by a class of Union College. The decorations of Thurs- day evening remained and in addition the ceiling was banked with bunting. A very homelike atmosphere was p·roduced by the furniture piaced along the sides and in the corners and ante-rooms of the gym. The programs for this dance were, for the ladies, beautiful white leather card cases enclosing the dance card, and for the men a similar novelty in black leather. The music was furnished by McKee's orchestra from New York City. Chairman Brown and his com- lnittee deserve the heartiest congratulations of the entire student body for the wonder_ ful way in which the details of this dance vvere carried out. The patronesses were: 1irs. Chades Alexander Richmond, Mrs. Benja1nin .H. Ripton, Mrs. Frank S. Hoff- man, Mrs. Olin I-I. Landreth, Mrs. James H. Stoller, J\1rs. Edward E. Hale, Jr., Mrs. Ernest Julius Berg, Mrs. John I. Bennett, J\1rs. Edward Ellery, Mrs. Frank C. Barnes, Mrs. Horace G. McKean, Mrs. Charles F. F. Garis, Mrs. Wilbert A. Garrison, Mrs. George J. Lyon, Mrs. Morton C. Stewart, ~rs. Morland King, Mrs. George Dwight Kellogg, Mrs. C. N. Waldron, Mrs. S. P. Chase, 1virs. Walter L. Upson, Mrs. Robert 'r. Hill, Mrs. Hartley F. Dewey, Mrs. Fred T. Dawson, Mrs. M. F. Sayre, Mrs. Grant Huntley, Mrs. J. A. Callan, JVIrs. Charles Brown, 1'Irs. Charles H. Hummer, Mrs. Scott B. Glenn, Mrs. Wallace S. Clark, Mrs. Thomas Boyles, Mrs. Charles M. MacMur- ray, Mrs. George F. Lyons, Mrs. J. H. Hooker, Mrs. Horatio Glen, Mrs. E. C. Whitmyre, Mrs. E. P. Whitney, Mrs. F. E. Case, Mrs. J. H. Clements, Jr., Mrs. Willis T. Hanson, Jr., Mrs. James W. Yelverton, l\1rs. H. E. Starbuck, Mrs. A. J. Dillino-ham 5 ' l\1rs. 0. G. Hawn, Mrs. C. D. Hawn, Mrs. S. B. Ketchum, Mrs. M. E. Jones, Mrs. John E. O'Donnell, Mrs. John H. Leavitt, Mrs. F. W. Burleigh and Mrs. F. H. Howd. Chi Psi entertained Saturday afternoon at a very enjoyable tea. Saturday night after the basketball game several of the fraterni- ties entertained at their chapter houses. Sigma Phi, Delta Upsilon, Chi Psi and Phi Delta Theta all had house dances. Sunday morning, Junior Week was brought to ~ close \Vith services in the college chapel. GRADUATE COUNCIL ACTIVE. 'rhe Commencement Committee of the Graduate Council met recently to consider plans for the June commencement. Among the projects discussed were the arrange- m.ents for alumni night. Immediately after the baseball game on Tuesday afternoon of Commencement \V eek four high poles will be sunk into the ground on the R. C. Alex- ander field and the square formed by the poles will be roped off for the various stunts staged by the re-union classes and others. The :field will be brilliantly lighted by means of sixteen one thousand watt nitrogen lamps, four attached to the top of each pole. Although complete plans have not been made for the Senior Ball, it is known that the day has been changed from Wednesday of Commenceme·nt Week to Monday. · This \vill make the ball, which has always been the foremost college function, even more of a success than it was last year because it is expected that inasmuch as it is to come the first of the week instead of the last that many more people will attend. It was only through the kindness of Sigma Phi in giving up their June dance, which has been their principal social function for twenty-one years, that Monday of Commencement \N' eek was made available. McKee's or .. chestra of twelve pieces will play at the Senior Ball this year. The Publication Cotnmi ttee also met recently and Morris Gilbert '17 was elected to the staff as athletic contributor and Charley W aldton is now acting as manag- ing editor of the Alumni Monthly. The committee decided that all advertising

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. should be discontinued in the Monthly. The i\lumni Association Committee have plans under way to organize a football asso- ciation composed of the high school teams of J ohnstovvn, Gloversvile, Amsterdam and Little Falls. A cup will be offered for the \Vinning team in the association. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Ninth. Here con1es a moral dissertation about the individuals whom the Innocent Bystander has often claimed were \college men,\ and not \college boys.\ He does not revoke this statement at all, but, since it takes all sorts to 1nake a college world, there are some few among us whose end and aim seems to be to earn the application, \sport and these few we must consider. \Vhat are son1e of the characteristics of the sport? First and most especially, his cry- ing aloud fro1n the tree tops that HE goes to college, HE does. He 'Years every con- ceivable thing with his class numerals on, and these things are usually of the watch- fob or class-pipe variety, which needs only be bought and not won like a \U\ or other legitim ate award. This self advertising is the truest n1ark of the \sport.\ immoral. Here is the argument as seen by the In- nocent Bystander: 'rhose who give \college spirit'' as an excuse for betting, are n1erely evading the fact. \College spirit'' is merely a pretext for raking in some of the ''long green.\ Their desire for gain is greater than their interest in their college's welfare. Here then are two characteristics of what, for lack of a better name, the I. B. has chosen to call a \sport\; namely, self-ad- vertising, and phoney college spirit as an ex- cuse for betting. Maybe more will follow. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. DID SHE WANT HIM? S. S. \Lusi tania\ : \I love you George. Come back quick.\-Ruth. This bit of news was picked up at our '\i\.,.ireless station in the electric laboratory. In case you wish to be convinced, stop a short titne at the V\rireless department when you visit the electrical show April 6 and 7, and see what the operator is getting. Then there is his mistaken attitude re- garding class support and college spirit. He feels it his duty to back up his college against every Tom, Dick, or Harry who wants to bet hin1 at any odds on any event. He considers it a lack of college spirit if he refuses to \put up five\ that we beat this college or that. Doesn't he see that the men of the college look upon college spirit as something finer than n1erely taking financial risks? If he puts up as an excuse that he can do as he pleases with his own money, doesn't he see that in making a bet, no mat- ter what the outcome, he is engaging in an illegi tilnate transaction, in that an exchange is going on wherein both sides do not bene- fit? All such illegitimate transactions are The wireless, however, is only one of the hundreds of interesting and amusing ex- hibits arranged for your benefit. By the way, have you ever· seen a halo at close range? We will have them in assorted styles and colors, but we make no sales except through our agent St. Peter, who is visiting us incog. as Ned Moore. Demonstrations and ''try-outs'\ in the basement of Wash- burn Hall. But of these things more anon. The work is going along with a lot of \pep\ but more brains and hands are need- ed. You underclassmen who expect to take the electrical course, get some experience V\ 7 hile the getting is good. Offer up some of your time and muscle at the altar of Jove, god of the \juice and get your share of the honor due to those who instituted the annual electrical show at Union. Go over to the 1 a b. and hand in your name-your work will be forthcoming. Do it now! .;f '. ··.,:.\. '' •. ? _/,'. ~,·? '·.

In- a 7, f :: ~ .. \' ·-,•· '' ''? _/,'. ~,·? '·. TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 THESONGOFTHETHRONU Has sorrow untimely e'er entered thy heart And rudely bid gladness depart? Has chart·ce e'er misused thee, 1\.fisfortune abused thee And -vvounded they hopes with its dart? Is so, heed this song; ?Tis the soul- bruising song '1~hat the world sings in pity for thee in thy wrong: \Get thee home vVith they woe! Get thee home'!'' concerning the :events to be run. R. P. I. wanted to place 100 yard and 220 yard dashes on the program, which the Union authorities would not consent to ·do a:s there are no facilties in our gym for the track tean1 to train f(}r these events. It is to be regretted that we could not n1eet R. P. I. in this other branch of sport this year. Indoor track meets arranged throughout the wi11ter would put our team in excellent shape for the spring season. The second of the series of inter-class n1eets in the gym were held this afternoon and the third and last meet will be held next Should death with shadowy sceptre of Tuesday afternoon. power Intrude at thy happiest hour, To choose at his pleasure Some loved-one-thy treasure Of life and thy hearts sweetest flower; Not then in thy ·grief Strive to seek a relief, Or a sigh in the throng, for it sings in thy grief: \Stay home With they sorrow! Stay home!\ ' Stay home with thy sorrow, thy grief, and thy pain! The world in its pity is vain. The hearts that would cheer thee Are hearts that are near thee. Thy dead-they shall cheer thee again. If thou wouldn'st to-day, Set a foot on the way, Hide thy grief from the world, lest thou tempt it to say: \Go home \Vith they sorrow! Go home!\ W .M. M., '18. ~. P. I. TRACK MEET CANCELLED. The dual track meet with R. P. I. which Was to be held at Troy February 20th, will not take place because the track authorities of Rensselaer, and Dr. MaComber and Cap- tain Dent could not come to an agreement LOUV AIN PROFESSORS ON HAR· VARD FACULTY. Professor Chari es Jean de la Vallee Ponssin and Professor Leon S. Dupriez, formerly professors o£ rna them a tics and constitutional law respectively at the Uni- versity o£ Louvain in Belgium, are to be- cotne members of the faculty of Harvard University for the rest of the college year. Professor Dupriez wi 11 give a lecture course on \The Introduction and Working of Pro- portional Representation in :Belgium.\ 1~he unfortunate circumstances of the war have given more than one American uni- versity the opportunity of profiting by the culture of son1e of the oldest institutions of learning o£ Europe. ENGLISH CLUB. Monday evening, February 7, the English Club were entertained by an interesting paper on Kipling, by Charlie Waldron. The club is now busy preparing a program for next time. Mr. Julius Warren, instructor in English in the Schenectady High School, will give readings from Alfred Noyes, the clever young English poet, who is to speak at Union in the near future. On the meet ... ing following, Morris Gilbert will read a paper on Noyes, to the club.

l ! l 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS ' A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUD·ENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y .• as Second Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walte·r C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz karl E. Ag:tn, '15, Business Manager Delta U.psilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager. Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office.: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N.Y. (This issue of the Concordiensis was edited by N. A. Finch '16.) THE HONOR SYSTEM. The Honor System has been in effect at Union tor nearly five years. We were one of the nrst colleges to adopt this system of governing conduct in examinations and it has· proved reasonably successful. 'The tact that we conduct our examinations on the Honor System and also that we have the No Deal _Agreement has given us a cer- tain prestige and reputation; several col- leges have been moved by our example to inaugurate similar Honor Systems. present system but so are there in every in\\ stitution of its kind. It is almost impos ... sible to forn1ulate an Honor System which will meet every condition and requirement. In spite of several shortcomings in the con- stitution o£ our system, however, it is a good one and fulfills the requirements. In prac ... tice though, it has not quite fulfilled its purpose. The great drawback has not been in the Honor System itself as defined in the constitution, but in the manner in which it is carried ou~ or rather is not carried out by the student body. An entirely wrong spirit toward the Honor System, its aims and purpose, has developed among many of the students. Each man, in order to make his examination valid, signs a declaration_ at the end of his paper. The declaration is as follows : \I pledge my honor that during this examina- tion I have neither given nor received aid and that I have reported or will report any violation o£ the Honor System which comes under my notice.\ Now the practice o£ disregarding the first part of the declaration is not prevalent, al- though there undoubtedly are some who cheat. These few are sometimes appre- hended and convicted but more often not. The second part o£ the pledge,\** * I have reported or 'vill report any violation of the Honor System which comes under my notice,\ is, we will venture to say, disre- garded by sixty per cent o£ the men at Union. All effort to convict a man who vio- lates the Honor System is diligently avoid ... ed by most of the students in college. How often have we heard, \I always sit in a front seat in exams, if possible, so that I shall not There are several 'veaknesses in our see 'cribbing' and I wouldn't report a man

' U1\\ )S\\' ch rrt. Ill\' od lC\\ i.ts en he it )y 1e as :s. . IS '1 3.- .d . y ;t l- 0 ·- t. e e y t I t t l :;•' \ ·. i ., ,:·~. ' 'rH:ft CONCORDIENSI:S~ 15 i£ I did see him 'crib.'\ To sign the pledge which wiU make the tired muscles o£ those and not report cheating is of course, a direct violation of the Honor System. The excuse for actirtg in this manner is that it is con- sidered a dishonorable act to report a fellow studenc and that no one does it. It should not be considered dishonorable to carry out the purpose of an institutioH which acts £or the best interest of Union. To report a man £or cheating in examina- tion is considered at Princeton and some other colleges, an honorable act, an act showing college loyalty instead o£ an act to be ashamed of. It is well nigh an im- possibility to get a man at Union to report a violation of the system or to testify against a suspected fellow student. T.he success of the Honor System depends not only upon honesty in writing examina- tion papers but upon fulfilling the other con- ditions of the constitution and reporting vio- lations. The Honor Court does its part to enforce the system which the student body has adopted, but they cannot make it ef- ficient without the active co-operation of the students and without a reform in the atti- tude of every one concerned toward one of tTnion's noted institutions. WIN FROM R. P. I. Saturday night in Troy the Garnet team must show the same old '~pep\ and fight they showed in the Colgate game in order to win. They will do it too, and it will be one of the very best gan1es of the season. Let us go over with the same cheering strength we have showed at previous Troy games and help that team win. When the play drags a bit and the opposing team makes a spurt it will be the cheers from the bleachers Union m,en on the court quicken and help thetn fight for that game. R. P. I. has a good team this year and our quintet needs everyone of us to cheer and cheer and cheer. 1\he Terrace 'Council has made plans for a special ear which will leave the waiting room at 6:30 o'clock. We know the Junior Week festivities have depleted your pocket- books but there are several good reasons why you should be at that game Saturday night. On to 1\'roy is old, lets-Win from R. P.I. FUTURE JUNIOR WEEKS. There has been a great deal of discussion going on among the students as to whether lT nion is a college which can support and will continue to support Junior Week suc- cessfully. Some students have made the claim that the personnel of .Union is not such that an elaborate Junior Week can be under ... taken in future years if it is to depend for its support principally upon the students. Others have concluded that the social activi ... ties of the week should have no place among our college undertakings because they are not supported by the students as a whole and rather than doing the college any material good they are doing us harm. These people are in the minority, however, and there is no reason to believe that their conclusions are well founded. The social reputation of .Union is important and should be maintained on a high scale. It is certainly true that not all of the events of Junior Week have been what they should be and it is growing more difficult each year to hold two major functions in a .creditable manner. The reason evidently

lj I I I I I l I I I I l 1 I I I I , I I 16 '\rHE CONCORDIENSIS:. seems to be that we are crowding too much into the small time allowed, for we must remember that there is a Musical Club con- cert, various teas and fraternity dances, he- side the basketball game, Prom and Soiree. The Prom is and always has been the pre- eminent affair of Junior Week and this year an excellent Prom was given. The other 1najor affair was not a decided success. We suggest that the Prom be a Union College dance, as it is in truth gradually be- coming, and that it be the only student body dance of Junior Week. The Soiree could advantageously be given during the fall term or at some other time during the year. The two days in February would then be left for the concert, teas, basketball game and fraternity dances, with the Prom as the . crowning feature. The efforts of the entire student body could be aroused to make junior Week an unqualified success. Now is the time, with Junior Week fresh in our thoughts, to decide what shall be our policy in future years. THE MUSICAL CLUBS. One o£ the many affairs of Junior Week was the Glee Club concert, given in the college chapel last Friday afternoon. Most of the performers had evidently been to the Soiree the previous evening, for the musical seemed to lack the snap and vigor, which usually characterizes these performances. The program was shortened as much as pos- sible, and there 'vere no solo nun1bers. Union's fair guests seemed to enjoy the concert, however, and much applause was received. Tomorrow the Musical Clubs leave for the annual New York trip, considered the best of the year. 'rhey will play in Montclair, N. J., and New York City. An enthusiastic reception is expected in Montclair, where their coming- has been advertised on all the local ·\movie\'' screens. .l\ tea before the per ... formance, and a reception following, has been. arranged for the Union men, and they will doubtless have an exceedingly good time. Returning to New York Saturday, they vvill give a concert in the Hotel Bretton Hall, where i:he crowning event of the sea ... son will come in the form of a dance. The ball room or the hotel will be fittingly dec-- orated for the occasion, and many promin .... ent N·e·w Yorkers will be among the guests. Manager 1\f ac~fillan is completing ar- rangements with the Columbia Phonograph Company, whereby the Glee Club will repro- duce records(){ Union's songs. A NEW UNION SONG. Clowe '96 and IIeertnance '01 who have been making arrangements for the Musical Clubs' New York concert, have written a song which will be sung by the Glee Club at New Yorlc. Mr. Heermance expects to be in Montclair to coach the Glee Club in the new song and will lead it when it is sung in New York. Hymn to the Idol. Words by Clowe '96 Music by Heermance '01 I Frotn China led Fate Through Union's old Blue Gate Seeking to educate Your heathen child,- Clinging with gigantic. hold To you, from Soph'more bold,-- To us you ~ame. II Through all the years since then Revered by tJnion;s men, The Eastern seer's token 0£ happiness; Bringing long life and cheer To all when you appear No fortunes s:hall we fear \Vhile you remain. .,;

the per ... has sea ... .... . ar- ave a to . 1n '01 THE CONC'ORDIENSIS. 17 JII Nevermore wiU you see H wang-ho and Pe-chi .:li,, Yun-nan and old Shan-si Great vvaH of Tsin; Land o£ wisteria vines, Lotus and river pines, Strange ~ods and lonely shrines Dragon and. sage. IV Spirit of far Cathay Guarding by night and day, Terrace and garden way, \\ 1 ith sleepless eyes; \\Tearing, without complaint, Your myriad robe of paint, Old lJnion's patron. saint! Lion of Stone ! FRESHMAN BANQUET REPORT. (Final) ]\J umber of tickets sold at $3.00 __ 123 ]J.oney received ------------------$369 00 Co1nplimentary tickets issued ------ 12 EXPENDITURES . Car fare (including special car) --$ 9 25 February 13, he will attend a dinner of the Union Alumni Association of Rochester. On the fifteenth he speaks at the Elmira Association dinner, and on the sixteenth he will attend a meeting of the Educational Committee of the Board of Trustees in N e~v York. FRESHMEN TIE S:OPHOMORES. The indoor interclass track meet held in the gymnasium Tuesday, February 2, re-· suited in a tie between the sophomores and freshmen, the juniors taking third place. This meet was the first of its kind held at Union and showed itself to be an excellent means of securing men for the 'varsity team. The events in many cases were closely con- tested. Forty yards dash ( £nals )-First, Morri- son '1 7; second, Tay:lor '18; third, Mallen .'16; fourth, Epstein '18. Time 4 3-5 seconds. Half mile run (10 laps)-First, Dent '15; second, Mijenski '17; third, McKenna '18; fourth, Wallace '17. 'Time, 2 minutes 20 seconds. Tickets ------------------------- Telephone ----------------------- 1\fessengers -----------·---------- Cigars for cops------------------ Hotel expenses (banquet, roon1, 2 25 Two mile run ( 40 laps )-First, B. F. Hance '18; second, Peaslee, '18; third, 35 Gunning, '16. Tin1e, 10 minutes, 49 sece- 55 onds. 1 00 meals, tips, etc.) ____ ------------$345 80 Total -----------------------~$359 20 Total receipts --------------------$369 00 Total expenditures ---------------$359 20 Balance -----------------------$ 9 80 'I'he money left over is to go toward the bleacher fund of the Gymnasium Alum- norum. (Signed) ROBER~ FAUST, Chairman. PREXY'S DATES. Prexy has a busy week before him in ful- fi11ing his many speaking engage1nents. On Forty yard low hurdles (2 hurdles)- First, Mallen '16; second, Butler '16; third, Taylor, '18; fourth, Epstein '18. Time, 5~ seconds. Running high jump-First, Peterson '17, 5 feet 5 1-2 inches; second and third, tie, Miller '17, Butler '16, 5 feet, 3 1--2 inches; fourth, ]\'!allen '16, Sterens '17, 5 feet, 1 1-2 inches. OFFICIAL SCORE. Events 1915 1916 40 yard dash ---~-- 2 Running hugh jump 3 40 yard low hurdles_ 8 Half n1ile run _____ 5 T-vvo mile run ____ _ 2 Total ---------- 5 15 1917 1918 5 4 8 4 17 3 2 8 17

' l . I ! I I I I i I , I . I . j l ' '! i ' I I ' 18 THE CONCORDIENSIS. Bill-See that third girl from the left in the pony ballet? She gets five thousand a year as an artist's model. Jill-That's some ~gure ! HEARD AT THE PROM. He-Shall we dance or talk? She-0, I'1n so tired, let's dance. A PASSIONATE TALE. Her breath came in short quivering gasps. Her whole body trembled with emotion. Her cheeks and lips were fiery red and her nostrils quivered passionately. Slowly yieldingly, tenderly she surrendered herself to the sturdy welcome arms. Breathing softly with eyes closed her mind soared to ecstacy. IIow restful was that big leather chair in the corner of the gym after the last dance at the Prom!! KIND DEVIL DELIVER ME. From girls who say \College must be bully,\ kind devil deliver me. From djer kiss scented cheeks kind devil deliver me. From people who say ''College 1nen never do a thing when they get out, do they?\ kind devil deliver me. From Monday eight o'clocks, kind devil deliver me. From girlies of thirty who look twenty- one, kind devil deliver rne. From Garry's differential course kind devil deliver tne. From writing \Clatter\ kind devil deliver me. THE THIRD CONCERT. An exceptionally fine program has been prepared for the Anna Case, Charles ,Gilgert Spross:, I-Ierbert \Vi therspoon concert to be held tomorro~r night. All of the artists are \vell known in Schenectady, and this con- cert is expected to be the most popular one of the series. Miss Case as a soprano and Mr. Wither- spoon as a basso have enviable reputations in musical circles and Mr. Spross as a com- poser and pianist is one of the most accom ... plished in the country. CHEMICAL SOCIETY. The Chemical Society is giving very earn- est attention to many scientific subjects. At a recent meeting Hughes '15 delivered a paper on \Storage Batteries,\ and at the next meeting Lowell '16 will address the society on \Beet Sugar.'' All the members are interested in the work and are endeavor- ing to make the society one of the most active on the hill. INTER-FRATERNITY COUNCIL. The Inter-Fraternity Council is preparing several by-laws to submit to the different fraternities for approval. The Council has adopted a constitution and Tuesday night has been designated as the regular meeting night. The dances in the gymnasium after the basketball games, under the supervision of the Council, have met with success, but it is hoped that there will be a larger attend- ance of students and others. The receipts from the dances go toward the bleacher fund. FRESHMAN DEBATING TEAM TRYOUTS. Tryouts for the freshman team which will debate the Middlebury freshmen, are to be held Monday afternoon, February 15th, at 4:30 in Room 13, Washburn Hall. The Union n1en will uphold the negative of the

been to be are con- one com- ... earn- At a the the . has it to The the THE CONCORDIENSIS. proposition, \Resolved that the states should adopt the prin~iple of the minimum wage for women and chiidren employed in stores, shops, factories, and by public ser- vice corporations.'' My heart beat fast within rne \iVhen I heard her laughter It set my blood a throbbing With the mystery of spring. . rtng; ASSISTANT MANAGER OF FOOTBALL. Fawcett \\l. Porter '1 7 was elected assist- ant manager of football at the meeting of the _Athletic Board, February 3rd. Owing to the number of men trying out for the position the competition was keen. Porter is a member of the Chi Psi fraternity and is on the Concordy Board. Saw the flash of golden tresses, Heard the laughter wildly gay, Till on bended knee before her Like a beggar did I pray. For a ducat from her treasure, For a single golden kiss, For an eon full of rapture, An eternity of bliss. JUNIOR WEEK .MORNING SERVICE President Richmond preached at the J un- ior Week morn1ng service, which was held in the chapel last Sunday morning at 11 o'clock. He was assisted by Dean Ripton, ·who read the scripture, and Dr. McKean, who offered the prayer. The service was very well attended by the house parties, faculty, and students who were in town. INTER-CLASS BASKETBALL . Saturdav afternoon at 2 :00 o'clock, 1916 ., plays 1918 in the Inter-class Basketball series and at 3 :00 o'clock on the same after- noon 1915 will play 1917. THE MISER. 0, there dwells a little tniser In a forest gray and old, \Vhose laughter is like silver, Whose locks are burnished gold. She is richer than a Midas Yet no ducat ever slips Fron1 her treasure where she hides it On her smiling, smiling lips. 0, greedy, grasping miser, With your smile so arch and cold, You refuse the humble beggar, But you'll not the robber bold. For you're s1:anding, little miser, 'Neath a sprig of mitsletoe So I'll steal your every ducat Little miser, ere I go. R. E. T., '16. The next time we r~n a good cartoon joke like the \Long Smoke\ in last issue, we are going to print it on tissue paper to Benz Page and others can see throug-h it. THE OP' OF THE S. S. PUNK. I've served on land, I've served on sea From Boston to Cape Colony; There ain't a language on this globe that I ain't pushed into a key. I've n1essed of every nation's grttb In styles, my fren's you'd choke to see; I've even swalloV\red Cape Horn sch'ub An' lived to see the next day's light- That may sound wild, but fren's, it's right- I've met some hellish sort of min; 0, the blue of May time heavens In her eyes reflected shines Her dimpled cheeks are rosy vVi th the flush of eglantines. An' shuck their hands, an' drunk their gin, But in all the dens I sto' d my trunk, The blackest was the S. S. Punk. 19

l I l ! i f l I I l I ; f l \. 20 'rHE CONCORDIENSIS. I was op' upon the craft- The lad was crouchin'' by my chair; His face was cut; his eyes was wild- I 'von't forgi t that awful stare ! \Vhy say, 'twis nothin'. but a raft \Vith sides nailed on and banded stout, To keep the crew from fallin' out. IIer engines groaned, an' harked, an' sighed, Pounded, coughed an' puffed, an' squeak- ed· ' My heart was breaking fur the child- He tried to tell me of the row; his strength gave out; he fell. He didn't need to tell me fren's; I knew it all too well. She ah;vays had a list port side, An' every bulkhead in her leaked. The crew-poor devils ! ragged and worn; A grim.er bunch was never born- They called the skipper Demon Dune, When I was op' on the S. S. Punk. r\midship was the wireless room, Foul an' musty, like a morgue, An' gawd, it was a morgue-for gloom! 'Twasn't proper for a dorg. The rotary was somethin' sad ; It couldn't sing, 'tcould only sputter. The key-'twas bent an' stiff, egad, I guess they'd used it fur a rudder! My hours was long and tiresome, too ; An' when I'd slaved the whole day thru, I sleep my night in a lousy bunk, \Vhen I was op' on the S. S. Punk. As I was si ttin' up one night A-waitin' fur Cape Cod to call, I heard a cry of agony an' then a body fall. I started, jist a trifle min, an' gripped my table tight; Then vvaited in a high suspense expectin' somethin' more, When suddenly I heard a step outside my cabin door, As old Cape Cod sang out her V, J\. hand was lightly.laid on me; The touch was light, an' ·rather coy, I turned and saw the galley boy, While in the door stood Demon Dune- The captain of the S. S. Punic It made the skipper rippin' sore That I was showin' sympathy; An' snatchin' up a pin, he swore!---- That pin was meant for me! For the devil was in Demon Dune, That night, on the S. S. Punk. The youngster saw the skipper's game, An' risin' from the dirty deck He threw his arms about my neck, i\n' hid 1ny blasted I ucky frame. The blow came quick; it took him square- I see him yet a-layin' there !-the captain grinned an' kicked his head; But he never squirmed-the lad was dead. I guess the skipper scratched our fight; For as he left he said, \Good night!\ One murder we enough for Dune, That night, on the S. S. Punk! It's seven months ago today, Since last I saw that cursed ship; 'Twas anchored in Penobscott Bay A-loading lumber fur a trip. I passed her on my way to see On board the liner Parmalee; An' as I watched her fade from view, I thought of one young soul asleep, Somewhere down in the slimy deep; An' I thanked my stars that I was thru, For all an' good, with Demon Dune- The skipper of the S. S. Punk. W. M. M. '18. The Electrical Show is April 6-7. I )

knew If you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as its relation to quality. $3.00 would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful high price to pay for a \movie.\ Steefel prices now are 25% off- the qualities are of the \opera\ type-high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our pricf:&s we say good-bye to profits-the fareweJI isn't. sad, however, because it sends out our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. . NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. All the Latest Novelties in WALLPAPER AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454- J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. . WATERS, Custom Tailor 15 6 BARRETT STREET Imported and Do·mestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!- Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two ot the newest lasts tor young men who keep apace with the shoe tashlona. Correct for eollege, school or bustne.•s. Natty enough tor dress wear. Values like theae are only poeat ble In a metropolitan 11 t o r e like Patton a: Hall'a. PATTON & HALL l45 STATE ST. Below t•e B:rlq.. I I h .;, . ! . '', '.•

. \ il II ·. q I tl 1 l ) I More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE ·5 FOR YO·UR DEN · Beautiful· College Pennants 5 Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, ·Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. :x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. :SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges. of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblem:s. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St.\ Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN', Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Schenectady, N. Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra , 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Ra! Ra! Ra! juniors This is for~you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dolla·r. See W. A. Hughes, .Pyramid Club, Cotlege Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop Jultus iEger ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

lit ery ay . Y. a! best had t for for :SS >'s 'i ! ' I ' ' ! Bellinger Paint Co. PAlN'TS, ·OILS Dealers in aU kinds of Wax Polishea 212 So. Centre ·st . t Walk,Over shoes will take ~~- you anywhere and hack. LET YOUR NEXT .PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A R Z • ' o· h. furnished music at Union College 1905 . . . Ita s . rc. estra 'o6, '07, 'o8, '09, 'ro, 'I I, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the World. ~~~· t1~~~Es!:::~e~ 48 ~!e Better for Concert Office and Res., 167 H·amil:ton St. t Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS. Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. · Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A. GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream . Soda , St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY : Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M. READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620· W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eye• Tested and GlatBea Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography HW atch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

. ' ~ .. _.,_,..~-·•:~· .,,._,.-,,,_....,.~r! ..... .-~ ~ ---~• l I ' i ... ~ .. -\~· ~ ... ~ --· ----- The Smoke of the Smart Set is not the ready-made or even ready-made-to-order cigarette. Smart men of fashion everywhere- club- men, connoisseurs, bon-vivants, millionaire sportsmen _:have discovered the keener enjoyment and greater satisfaction in the fresh cigarettes of unique flavor and delicious mildness they roll for themselves, to suit their individual taste, from mellow ''Bull\ Dur- ham tobacco. Today it is the very last word in correct form to \Roll Your Own.\ a GENUINE. ·au.Ll DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO No other tobacco in the world has the wonderful sweet fragrance and ripe natural mildness of \Bull\ Durham. No other cigarettes have the exquisite smoothness and delightful fresh .. ness of \Bull Durham hand-made cigarettes. •• Bull\ Durham is a distinctive form of tobacco enjoyment thor- oughly appreciated by smokers of experience and discrimination for the supreme, lasting, wholesome pleasure it alfords. F .REE An l~lustrated Booklet, showmg correct way to ••Rn.JI Your Own'' Cigarettes, and a P\'ackage of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on request. Address l \Bull\ Durham, Durham, N. C. r Room 1400. TEE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. Aak lor FRE£ ,acltta•e oF • •paper• •' u it Ia •ach lie aaclc.

----------------~----------------------------------------, ,, •' 1: :I 'THE UNJO.N of a Sophomore or Freshman wi,th a few dolars whi~h will stay by him until he is a Senior can be effected by an oceasional deposit in The ·~c'henectady Savin:gs Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON The Gleason Book Co. The &lison 104 Jay Street Gleason Buildin~r \On yoqr way to the post office\ American Plan All Qu,tside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special M.eal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Dealers in College Goods too numerous to in.clude in the Edwin Clute, Prop. Schenectady, N. Y. \ ''Concordy\ The PURE FOOD Store !I T HE MOHICAN MARKEl. l! • ...... iil . The Big Store.Around th~ Corner .. 161 JAY ST~EET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE o:uTLET The PURE FOOD Store 140 .JAY -STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $1 0.9·5 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section ,South Colle~e Sweaters and Banners R. E. R·EEVES handles our line in Union Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N. Y.

· The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-'Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats ,cut to your measure $20 upward Full- Dress Acceessorie~ Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing Co,. 313·315 State Street Telephone 91 ~w The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT SHOES Reductions on Winter Weight Shoes worth your while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the lowest Cash Prices. J QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices .. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 R.epresentative on tbe Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made .. to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. --·-·------------- C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service ·Co. Phone 4489. IN A HURRY H IT RAINS OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk & Leather Goods Store Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee j>.~WA'r.t 177 Jay Street _,t~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. li>tL.,Ae\..e. Albany, N.Y. REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S Id e & B 126-128 Nassau Street • e pa Ing fOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 20th Century Lunch CHOCOLA!E PIE wrrH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, ''On your way to the Post Office\ 'i l'; ; '-. I '. ' .l I . I' ' I,!: I ,>' '·' : ! I ,• .,, ),:• :,I .

; !l '• . : I , I ' l . ; 1 ' i i ! ! I i I i f ; ' ' I I i l l \ II ! ! I ! I I 1 ! ( : I ! ll jl r 1 f f ! r I I t l ' I !. l I. ! I ( \ I ~ { i :U ll ' f f j, . I ; ~' !.' i, I! ~ ! I! ll t.l : l ' \ ll II ljl 1 ' I I \ SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Styles, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors .. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time a ~ i'<i • .. i< ~- .. . ~~r~~ ~~ 240-244 STATE STREET Schenectady ~ Art Press SCHENECTADY

' \\ ~- ~ - . . ,. . ' ~ . ' . f ' . ._.... --·,--- - VOL. 38 THE! PVBLIJHED·WEEKLY BY·THE , STVDENTS· OF· VNJON· COLLEGE • Union Defeats R.P.I. FEBRUARY 18th, 1915 -- . ---- --· ------ ----- . ·-· -- ---·----

' . UNION UNIVERS11 CHARLES ALEXAND:ER RICHMOND, D. D., LL D .. Ch UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate· and graduate courses: · ·1. Ceur•e• leadla&' to the degree of A.. B. CussiCAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient' languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. I. Vo1011e leadtug 'to the degree ef Ph. B. LATIN-SC1ENTil'IC CouRsE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted. addi- tional work in modem languages and science. 3. Cour•e leading to the degree o:f B. S. Sc:mNTil'IC CouRsE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree o:f B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRs~- This course o:ffers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course is · intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. G. Cour•e• leatllng to graduate degree•• CouRsE LEADING '10 DEGitEE ott M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925-W CoURSE I..EADING TO DEGRU Ott : course of one year of graduate lectures, laboratory practice and · COURSE LEADING TO DECREE OP p; of two years of graduate study r sion the degree of :M. E. E. or an For catalogues or other inforr F. C. BA1lNES, Secretary, Sd DEPARTMENT OF ~ ALBANY MEDICAL COLLE< lectures, recitations, clinics, labot tical demonstrations and operatiOJ Hospital and laboratory advant CatalogUes and circulars contai tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKD, M.D .• DEPARTMENT 01 AMASA J. PARKU, J. ] President. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-T the university is located at Alba capitol. It occupies a building wl: use. The course leading to the d three years ; each year is divided i Expenses : Matriculation· · fee, $IIO. For catalogue or other in£~ }oHN C. WATSO~, R.e~ ' . DEPARTMENT OF.Pr ALBANY COLLEGE OR PH.A course of instruction comprising t months each. Fees, $9o.oo perter For catalogue giving full infon 43 Eagle St. ALFRED B. H UESTED, Sc \Everything for the College Man t GUNNING '1 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, I BANNERS AND PILLOW C 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate Middle Section, So. CoHege Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the (

TRADE MARK The- ·,·. ~- ..... · ... Guarantee .. of . . . , . . ~ .. -EXcellence . . . . . ~' •• • 'J . . . .. ... . . ) . ·· · ... :···.on LATEST STYLES-MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoes are worn. All •t:rle1 and leather• LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAlL STS. The Cain's Leadin~ exponent• of Modem Dancin~ in Schenectad~ and Vicin· ity. . .' .. ' ... · · ·· ~ < · · < .-: :: : · GOods •. t ~ i • • • New Pupih 'received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9p. m. Pri· vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ~- !· l l ' ... . • • • • l •• ·- -- :· :.,, . ~- ·Electrical \( .. ~ .. t ~··\:i' ~ :., .• ~.,/r''': • • • , \ ,', .. f .. 't •,. I . 1, ,,·, ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Pho111 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with General Electric NICKLAS ~9ia~;:e; CompanY EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3759 E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownea• Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men.

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready made clothes because they are the equal of the finest custom tailor's output. We are sole agents in this tri•city territory for Rogers Peet Co. and ''The Frankel Fifteen'' if· (The greatest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. .Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY ( Drawin~ lnh Eternal Writini ·Ink En•roaain~ Ink · · · . .. Taurine Mucil••~ · · Higgins' i Photo Mounter 'F~ate . ·~~ · Drawin~·Board Paete · THE PAST AND PRESENT · Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think Qf traveling as o'lte did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SHOE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Opposit~ Jay Street Free Order Service Telephone 3456 l Liquid Paaie- · · . · Office Paate · · · Ve~etable Gluea etc. · ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS. AND ADHESIVES .. Emancipate . yourself from corro- sive and ill-smelling ·in~~ and·adhe-- sives and adopt the HlGGINs·~ INKS AND ADHESI~S. They will be a .revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and ·withal . so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 271 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N.Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, ----- ·-~ --- ____ _,.,. .. ..

----~-- ·,... 0. ,Ph \' ' ~·,.\\ ~· .. t ~ I ., \ • 'I' ~t . -··,·. •. . ' ... .. . . .. . ... . . 0. .,· .· ' ' ·• ..... '!\ • · .. ·. ~, , \ .. .:' .... : ~-~\\· . ·.: I 9 .. • l, • .I George . Randolph Chester Famoua Author, aaya: uWhy •houlcln't a man be UJillin• to recommend G tobacco . which ~v•• '\ cool, •weet and •Gti•F.Yinll a •moll• cu Twcedo?\ For Mentally Alert Men Tuxedo • • • • - ' George Randolph Chester's \Get- Rich- Quick Wallingford\ stories have delighted thousands through the mental alertness, good humor and keen mind shown by. the wily promoter. · When George Randolph Chester writes of things typically American he knows what he is talking about; and when he endorses Tuxedo--the typically Ameri- can tobacco- his endorsement carries great weight ·with the keen-minded, alert and brainy smokers of · this country. ·. - ... ·', Tlae Per/eel Tobacco for Pipe and Ogaretlc .... . .. ii. mac:le especially to maintain the American spirit of good humor. Its constant use benefits a man in mind and body, .by keeping him happy and physically fit. Tuxedo is the finest Kentucky Burley-the world•a premier smoking-tobacco leaf-made absolutely non-biting by the original \Tuxedo Process\ that has never been suc- cessfully imitated. Tuxedo is delightfully mild. fragrant. rich, and gives a cool and satisfying smoke. Tuxedo is in a class by itself. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE (oaYeaieat, alassine • wrapped, 5 Famoal lfHD tia, with cold I 0 moiatare·prool pouch • • • • C letteriq, caned to fit pocket C In Tin Humidor~, 40c anJ 80c lnGlmsHumldon,SOcand90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY . .... .. .

.. ,. f Say Fellows: .Bring in your laundry and save money fiote theae Prieea: ' Shirts all Kinds .......•...•....•.... lOc · Collars ...............•..•..•......... 2c Union Suits . . • . . . . .•.....•........ lOc Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajamas. . . . .•....•.... 6c ~ach · Hose .... · ....• _ ............. 3c per pair Handkerchiets· •.........•............ 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Street We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, · Go'Wns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Univeraitiea from the Atlantic to the Pacinc. Cia•• ~ontract• a apccialty UNION· STUDENTS Are invited to open a check ;lCCount with us. Accounts of Clubs, Fraternities and Associations so1icjted. . . . To Cure Col til BUYA GAS HEATER MOHAWKGASCC Phone 2500 .. ' Pictures and Picture Framing, Art. Stl plies and Gold .Gildil)g. · .-.:·.: :· . . Decorating and Paper ·»atiging~ · Hotl and Sign Painting. ·. · · ·: · .. . ' . . . S. E. Stanes ,. · Art ~tnre .· . .' No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady; N. ' '•11 { \) • .... ' f \\ l ... ,,~ ••U1'f\~{ Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters an KNIT GOODS FOR MEN The Schenectady Trust Co. UNITED KNITWEAR COMPAN\ 318.320 State Street 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. ~ - ~ ............ ~-- .. ,-------~- ...... _ ---~-·--- ,._ ------;---- -----··----.~~- ... ·-\--·

Clothing Furnishings Hats We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each department. ~- wells & Coverly TROY ••Jf It's Made of Rubber We Have It'' . \ . ·.... . . . . '• . ~ . ., ... .. . , , ; • '.1· rn Athletic Goods Rubber Goods ·' ' .. .. . '* •.• G d •. ·J·. ~ • · • ._. > . . - . A u to o o s .. . ·,. .. . =-l' .• I I •, \ ·· r.· · · · .. ~ .. -·~;·_ ::::_<· · A .. u.to . Tires !· .. /\ ~ . . . . . . . . . ' . -. . , .. •. A ... , . . ··. . . . .. l!J . ·.. . . . . . , ,. t .I ~' .. ·:·. · : · 229 State S~eet 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, No- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD DRUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN---- HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. Broadway and Maiden Lane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard . Room. Twenty .. five Pri~te Dining Rooms Wm. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has J!l_!!ced us at the to__p notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. . Fine Imported and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323-J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N .. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Fer~ Street Crea01e~ 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry· Street \Look for the Cow's Head.\

' . Ready to Wear and Custom ,Made STYLISH CLOTHES Comparison ia the Lever That Turns Trade Our Way FOR YOUNG MEN This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison wit} merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship an<J newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison! consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else· where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for tht: asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of.SJO or over if this ad is presented at thf time of purchase. · 503 • 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-.W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N.Y. Phone 1270-W . . All Work Called for and Delivered Free The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its .own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. , A few popular items: J\1en's soles, sewed _______ ..:-75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c Ladies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels ---------------25c Men's soles, nailed ____ 50 to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 2Qc Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all wo.rk guaranteed. · ·· · 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N. Y~. ~ Full RUBBER SOLES-- __ -- -- -- -------- ------ ------------ __ $1.50, $1.'15. · . ' ... \The College Photographer\ GARNET' . . 1903 1909 1904 .uno WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913. CARL DANNER, Beta Theta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S. · Coli••• Repree•nt•tive 1908, 19H 1915. are in every style suitable for city or country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart· and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $1.50 and up Cluett, Peabody&Co.,Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ ~ew Dining Room· Students' Tuck Shop A :BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phane 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave. .. ..... ·-- -~- ............... ----·- ___ ... ... . -- ~ - -< ... .

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 18, 1915 NO. IS UNION OVERWHELMS R. P. I. Engineers Completely Snowed Under by Houghton & Co. R. P. I.'s crack basketball team co.uldn't start anything against .Union last Saturday night over in Troy, and the gentlemen from Schenectady took away the game by a score · .. of 27 to 8. rn all departments of the game · · Union· had tne advantage and from start to .. ~ · .·:·· ·. finish th·e result was never it.t doubt. Five '\~;:!>' \ • ' . ~:.. .. ~./··_:'. -:·-'tiiinutes befdre the end of the game the en- . . \·· · ·: · ·ti.r.i .. second team took the place of Captain · :.:'.·--.~~·:·:.~ · · _.;Ho.ughton;s _men and showed that even ·~,< ~=~. ·. · · ... .:\vhen · · the championship organization is · ·.t ~~-~~:.,: ;.. ·broi{en tip _at the end of the year, Union ~ ,. :_::~· ,_: will still_''hav:e ~ood material to start next -n\: · .. : . : . se~Son>with.·. . .• . . ' : ~-)-.:·.. ~·;; .·. ¥o:~t ·all Rensselaer saw the game and a .. ,.,_. ·::3.:· . .- .'_,. good proporti.on of Dorp was on hand when · ·.\~i}.' ~--<_.·:; ~he. whistle blew. Befo~e the game pulmon- \- ••• .&.J \. • • • • · >.· . .._ · ary· courtesies, not to say curtseys, were exchanged between the rival institutions, and continued throughout the game. Going to Troy has become quite a festive thing for Union. Four and three-quarter seconds after the game started Ernie Houghton toed the foul line and dropped the ball into the basket for the first point of the game. Seven seconds afterwards he shot a field goal. w oolsey of R. P. I. shot a foul basket and Ernie obliged with two more. Woolsey then finished the Engineer's (exclusively) scoring for the period when he scored a :field goal. Joe Haubner sco~ed a difficult shot. Houghton scored thiee more points on a field goal' and a foul, and Jake Beaver shot a :field goal. Houghton scored two more points on fouls and the half ended. · The second half was a repetition of the first, only more so. R. P. I .. scored five points and Union 13. Altogether Ernie made eleven points on fouls and £our on field goals. Dave Beaver scored t~ice in succes- sion in this half, and upon the advent of the second teatn, Mudge rang up two foul goals and Scoby just as the whistle blew caged a field goal. The score: UNION. F.B .. F'.P. T.P. J. Beaver, r.f. ------ 1 0 2 Moynihan, r.f. ------ 0 0 0 Scoby, r.f. -----~- .... - 1 0 2 Haubner, l.f. ------- 1 0· 2 Mudge, 1.£. --------- 0 2 2 Woods, c. ---·------ ·O 0 0 Galbraith, c. __ ... ____ o· 0 0 D. Beaver, r.g. ----- 2 0 4 Zimmer, r.g. ------- 0 0 0 Hough ton, l.g. ------ 2 11 15 Girling, 1. g. -----·-- 0 0 0 Totals ---------- 7 13 27

'· I '· 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. R. P. I. F.B. F.P. T.P. Howard, r.f. ------ ... --1 0 2 Icke, r.f. ------------ 0 0 0 Woolsey, l.f. ------- 1 2 4 Parrott,· l.f. -------- 0 0 0 McManus, c .. ------- 1 0 2 Collins, c. ~--~----- 0 0 0 Gallagher, r.g. -·---- 0 0 0 McDonald, l.g. ------ 0 0 0 Totals ---------- 3 2 8 Summary-Score at half time-Union, 14; Rensselaer, 3. Fouls committed-Rens- selaer, 18; Union, 6. Referee and umpire- Reed, Springfield Training School, and Dee~ing, ~1anhattan (alternating.) Time of halves-~rwenty minutes. THE MUSICAL CLUB TRIP. Some Trip! I-iast Friday the faculty, recognizing the excellence of the Musical Clubs, gave them a day and a half in which to disport them- selves, and bring honor and fame to Union, and so the entertainers sauntered down to N e\v York City in a special car, furnished by the New York Central Lines. At noon, a stop was tnade at Poughkeep- sie, where the local lunch room set up a \!feed\ for the fellows, and it was a very good meal, considering what was paid for it. They arrived at the Grand Central Ter- minal at about three p. m., and changed to the Hudson Tubes, which brought them to the Jersey City Terminal of the Erie. Here they embarked on an hour's ride over marshes, which gave New Jersey such notor- iety as the breeding place for mosquitos, arriving finally in Montclair, N. J. Here they were received in a church, and fed chocolate, wafers and lots of other nice things by the prettiest girls in Montclair, V\ 7 hich is saying a lot. After this they were distributed around ·at the various houses, in Pierce-Arrows, Packards, Simplex and Ford \'limoes which made them feel somewhat embarrassed, since they were not sur~ they were skillful enough at balancin~ on a knife, etc. That evening they played at the T1 1\Iontclair, the largest and only show in the tOV\ 7 n. But wait,-the theateJ seat seven hundred people, and there \S. R. 0.\ signs in the lobby, and the sold at one dollar per, and still the M Clubs had to eat ''training table\ fet but 'vhy think of materialistic things working for glory? After the concert, <: one went to a dance hall, where a New orchestra furnished the heavenly st that made the fellows' feet go utw twinkle.\ The girls were there als everyone had a fine time, for believe m<: ' ff. \ were 'some mu tns. At nine o'clock the next morning, ; ribly early hour, all were at the statio the return to the city, and after many adieus, \\·ith much weeping, gnashing < teeth, and other stuff, (for Robinson 1 little nectarin~ he hadn't lamped in years), the party rode to the ferry.· ferry should soon become famous · a! one on which Phil Downes was frigh· almost, but not quite, speechl~ss. He bed aloud in his fright, much to the ar ment of the other passenger~· aboar< boat. The rest .of the morning was spe registering at the Hotel .Cumberland, v a short noon repast was served. The ; noon was given to the fellows to 4 themselves, and so all the theaters visited, many saw the Aquarium, Stat Liberty, and the Library, and still o patronized the Fifth Avenue busses, t~ the big buildings that everyone sl know, are in New York, and lots of t] they did. That evening they gave \vhat was doubtedly the best concert of the vee; the Bretton Hall Hotel. The alumni ed out remarkably well, and, as if ins by the fact, every Musical Club mar

THE CONCORDIENSIS. 11 ·~ .. . . ... the very best he knew how, with the result that the whole affair was a decided success. The dansant following the concert was fine and the fellows will · long remen1ber the pretty faces that greeted them that evening. It would be quite impossible to state the various things that were enjoyed after the dance was over, though it is known that Rector's and ''Castles in the Air\ were visit- ed by a good many. Some came in at six and others at nine a. m. There was no definite time for the return trip, and the fellows came home when the spirit moved them. Thus ended the best trip the Glee Club is said to have made in t\vo or three years. The people at Mont- clair,. N. J., have already arranged to have the .Union Clubs down next year, though the time wil not be definitely decided upon. 1917 AND 1918 TIED. .. · .. ': \: ··.~_xtra ' Game Necessary to • Decide Class ·.: · .~· .- . ~·· Championship . · .... · · ::.··.· . :.' · .'On Saturday afternoon the second ~et of the·· las~ half of inter-class basketball games : wa:s played .~ff. Again both the sophomores 0 • • .; .... •. .. ·.and freshmen were able to add another vic- .\ ,.' . · tory to their records. The sophomores over- ... . whelmed the seniors in a very slow and un- . ··~: 1 :.: .: ,. • . ·interesting game to the tune of. 46-0, while . ·~.<~.-.- ~ ~·· . 'the freshmen rolled up a score of 18-8 ~ ·against the juniors. For the freshmen ·Peaslee and Bennison played the best game while Kelleher scored six out of the eight points of the juniors-four being made by fouls. In the sophomore-senior game, all of the second year men played a good game with Rosecrans and Peterson caging nine and seven baskets, respectively. With the two lower classes each having four games to their credit and one lost, the next game be- tween them promises to be a \rip-snorter.\ This game will decide who is winner of the Joseph trophy. The standing of the teams is as follows : Class 1915 1916 1917 1918 -~--- ·-------- --·----------- --·----------- Won 0 3 4 4 WITHERSPOON CONCERT. Lost 5 2 1 1 The music lovers of Schenectady who at- tended the recital by Miss Anna Case and Herbert Witherspoon on February 12, en- joyed a rare evening. lVIiss Case especially delighted. She has a charming stage pres- ence and this, combined with her exquisite singing quite enchanted her audience. She was best in.the aria from Lucia di Lammer- moor, in which the technique in the execu- tion of the long and dificul t cadenzas was very nearly perfect. Two other songs, \I. Song\ and \Sacred Fire,\ the last rather dramatic, she sang with great beauty. Mr. Witherspoon with his strong bass, left the impression that he had much re- strained power which his programme. did not permit being displayed. His aria \Otu Palermo\ and \Der Doppelganger\ were his finest numbers, and in the charming \Der l{nabe mit dem ·wunderhorn\ he showed himself a ballad singer. The duet from Don Giovanni was very much appreciated. Mr. C. L. Spross, the com poser, though not so good an accompanist as was Mr. Bos with Julia Culp, appeared to better advantage in his own compositions, \That's the World in June\ and \vVill o' the Wisp.\ He was especially fortunate in having on artiste like Miss Case to sing his \Will o' the Wisp,\ which required a soprano with a wide range and much charm. Both singers were generous in their encores, Miss Case in her last, the \Cuckoo Song,'' was archness itself. Some people's ancestors did not have an honest hair on the• r heads ; others were en- tirely covered with hair.

'$: • ' ' . .. 12 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE INNOCRNT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Tenth. Union College is the finest college in the whole wide world. Any Union alumnus or undergraduate will tell you so. And when he is asked to back up his statement, he will immediately launch forth into eulogiums of her faculty, curriculum, athletics, musical clubs, and of course, of her unique spirit. And then he will finally in his enumeration. come to the statement that her morals are safeguarded by an Honor System and a No- Deal Agreement. And here a confusion arises. The fact that an . Honor Court tries violations of either offence; that we pledge ourselves to both by signing our names in the same sort of book, would seem to indicate that it was no more to violate the one than the other; that is, that cribbing and dealing were equal offences. Of course, the punishments are different, but the close association of the Honor System and No-Deal Agreement has led to a diminution of the influence of the Honor System and an exaggeration of the -No-Deal Agreement's influence. Both are condemned because they are \immoraL\ The Innocent Bystander has the greatest respect in the world for the word \m'oral so great in fact, that he hates to hear it ap- plied in a similar sense to two such widely different practices as cribbing and dealing. I~ook at a deal in its true light. Is a college office such a big thing that we should adopt an elaborate mechanism to safeguard its integrity? Doesn't it seem a bit childish to make such a fuss about anything so trivial in real worth as head of a committee or member of this or that? And above all, when we call a deal immoral, aren't we prostituting a word whose significance should be reserved for something real? Deals are not immoral. They are too small to be immoral. A man of the world \Vould laugh if you should try to tell him that you considered a college deal a viola- tion of any of the laws of God or man. A ·----------- - •. college office to some is so trivial ~ compared with the real things of the that to adopt regulations prohibitin~ is a joke. No, the Innocent Bystander does r vise the repeal of the No-~eal Agre so keep your hammers in your tool on this point, at least. What he does 4 is the too close association in the stt minds of the Honor System and N, Agreement. The Honor System is thing which is real, moral, manly. .. lation of it should never be viewed th( as a violation of the No- Deal Agree In other words, although the same controls both, remember that there is difference between the two. THE INNOCENT BYSTAND DEBATING TEAM WORKINC The team to represent Union is h~ work on the question. The debate is held in Schenectady February 24th~ men will speak in the following order : ton H. Sternfeld '16, A vrom M. J acol Raymond S. Blodgett '15. ~ Spencer B. '18 is alternate. The Union team wi fend the affirmative of the propo~ standing for an increase · ~n the arm: navy. The subject for debate is to 1: same as that used in the Cornell-Colu Pennsylvania triangular debate. . FRESHMAN DEBATERS CHOSJ At the try-outs held Monday after the following men were selected to 1 sent the Union freshmen in the comin bate against the freshmen of MiddJ, College: Lewis M. Anker, Edward Carr Ignatz Stein, and Frederick Bascom, nate. The members of the 'varsity dec team together with Prof. McKean act judges. The teams are to debate 01 principle of the Minimum Wage. Th bate is to be held at lfiddlebury abot tniddle of J\1arch. An interesting deb expected . . -----------·--- ..__ --~

- ---------------- ----- _____ _.:.._ __ ~--------- THE CONCORDIBNSIS. 13 LECTURE ON U.S. NAVY. Dr~ Breck of the Navy League Gives In- structive Talk. On '\fuesday evening, February 9, a very instructive lecture was given in the chapel on the needs of the U. S. navy. The speak- er was Mr. Breck, field secretary of the Navy League of the United States. Mr. Breck urged a strong navy for national pro- tection-as an insurance against disaster. The present is the time to prepare, he said, for the length of time required to build bat- tleships is such as to prevent their being· built after war is declared. In ridiculing the charge of militarism the speaker said: \So iong as we have wars, it is well to have force in the hands of a peace loving nation like the United States.\ The lecture in- cluded stereopticon views of the American warsbips from the Revolution down to the present day. After the lecture Mr. Breck _answered.' several questions about our pre- > .'.:.:paredness. It is a point of interest that Dr. . ·~~. .:, : · , .. :~Breck and our own Dr. Hoffman were stud- ... -~_.~ : ..... · ... - :· . etits together at Heidelberg. ,· .• ~ •• :.'\; .... * •• • : ~ . _·. ~- ,) ·' . . \,., ... • -1' ' .. \··· .. ··.t, l' '• .. I I . . ..... . . · .... ALFRED NOYES COMING . - · - -Alfreq Noyes, the young British poet of international reputation, whose work has ·. _mef' with such ·favor in this country, will .lecture in the college chapel Saturday even- ing on \The Future of Poetry.\ To hear Mr. Noyes will indeed be a great privilege, for the young poet has an extremelv inter- esting personality and· he will give his audi- ence some thoughts on poetry which will be valuable in that he will give a poet's idea of poetry. A short time ago Professor Palmer lectured on poetry from a scholar's standpoint. Mr. Noyes has recently come from Eng- land where he had been in the service of his country with the coast patrol. He is an exchange professor at Princeton and has been giving lectures on poetry at several colleges throughout the country. Of no small interest will be his reading of some of his best known poems Saturday evening. Tickets may be obtained either from Mr. Waldron or Walter Baker. The lecture is under the auspices of the English Club, and in order to have a creditable representation of students, they have fixed the price of ad- mission at the merely nominal sum of fifty cents. The tax to town folk will be one dollar. FRESHMEN LEAD INTERCLASS MEET~- The second part of the interclass track meet held in the gymnasium on February 11, left the freshmen- in the lead with the juniors second. On February 16, the final results will be determined, as the last of the meets take place on that date .. The total score to date is: 1915 ------~--~----------~----------- 5 1916 -------------------------------- 36 1917 -------------------------------- 24 1918 -----------------------------~-- 43 The results on February 11th were: 40 yard dash: First, Mallen, '16; second, Morrison, '17; third, Taylor, '18; fourth, Northrup, '18. Time, 4 4-5 second. 40 yard high hurdles: First, Miller, '16; second, Butler, '16; third, Taylor, '18; fourth, Epstein '18. Time, 6 seconds. One mile run: First, B. F. Hance, '18; second, Peaslee, '18; third, McKenna, '18; fourth, ~1ajewski, '17. Time, 5 min., 17 sec. Shot put: First, Stoller, '16, distance 40 feet, 6 inches; second, Hay, '18, distance, 39 feet, 7 inches; third, Rockwell, '18, dis- tance, 39 feet, 2 inches; fourth, Mallen, '16, distance, 38 feet, 7 inches. TRAINING COUNCIL. The Training Council reports little save the recent action taken when five basketball players were laid off the squad for one week for disobeying the Council's rules on the gentle and joyous occasion of the frosh banquet.

' ( ' \ i. ' j· I ' 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ' ' INTER-FRATERNITY COUNCIL. The Inter-Fraternity Council has held no recent meeting. At the last meeting the by ... laws committee submitted a report tor the consideration ·of the con£erence \Vhich then submitted it to the· different fraterniti.es for their consideration. A meeting will prob- ably be held this week to take final action on it. A TRAGEDY IN THREE CHAPTERS. Chapter I. January 20th, 1015. Dear Father:- Have you got $3.00 to spare? The .annual freshman banquet is coming off next Wed- . nesday night, and the president of our class says that any member of 1918 who fails to attend will be drawn and quartered. I don't think they'd really do that, do you? I'm sure I can never eat three dollars' worth, but I'll do it or bust, and maybe both. I'll be blessed if I can understand a thing about it. No freshman talks .about it, and last Monday wh~n I wanted -them to post a notice about it on the bulletin board the same as they do for that Junior Promise that's coming of£, somebody hit me over the jaw with a hym~ book. Maybe it's a secret, but I don't see ho'\\T they expect a crowd there if they don't advertis~ t~e thi.p.g. Last fall when I wanted to l~ad a long yeil for our class president, they almost chewed my head off. The committee tells us that we are ex- pected to bring someone. I respectfully in- vite you, father dear. I know you would en- joy being present and meeting all the faculty and trustees, who never fail to attend, they tell me. The banquet is coming off in Troy, and that's another thing that I can't under- stand. vVhy .in the world they should go to Troy when there are at least three good hotels in Schenectady is more than I can get through me. It's needless extravagance, I say. Besides, I don't see how the student ··--- ____...__ -· ----~- --¥- ~~-- -· body will know about it if they keep it sc murn. You'd think it was a secret. Now don't fail to come, father dear. rm sure you will enjoy yourself, and besides, I'm dead broke. Your affectionate son, ALOYSilJS. * * * Chapter II. Telegram: Son Aloysius. Meet me at Troy depot at 5 o'clock. FA'rHER. * * * Chapter III. January 27, 191!5. · Dear Father:- Honestly, I'm awfully sorry I couldn't meet you, but the way those sophomores treated us was a shame. I went over and told Mr. Dewey to-day that if he didn't see to. it that my $3.00 was returned to me as well as other restoration made to my in-·· jured dignity, that I would have the law on . him. And just think, he even laughed at . , mef . '. ' . Well, , I came over to Troy at 5 o'cloc~ ::· to meet you, although the rest of the. fresh-· men w~nt over this morning. They haven't e~ough self-control to wait until the proper time for a thing.. But when I went to the station to meet your train I met a lot of sophomores. I said \Hello\ (we have to, you know.) All they did was to let out wild shrieks. \Where are you going, young innocence,\ they asked. HI am going to meet my father, then I am going to the barber's, and then to our class banquet,\ I replied proudly. \Come with us/' they said. I went. And then it happened! They knocked me down, stepped on me, and, worst of all, they cut my hair off! Sort of a nerve, wasn't it? Then they took a quarter away from me for \tonsorial service,\ as they called it. And then, when I went to the banquet, ---- - ---·~ -

-- -~- ---·--~-- ·-,-· ------ _ ......... __ .. ___ --- ~-· THE CONCORDIENSIS. 15. instead of congratulating me for my plucky fight against the sophomores, everybody laughed at P\e. At about half-past ten I re- membered that I should have met you. Don't be too hard on me this time, Dad. Honestly, Fve had a helluva time as it is. But if I don't get back my $3.00 hat, by shades of Doctor N ott, I'll have Mr. Dewey arrested. Your humble offspring, ALOYSIUS. P. S.-I -didn't see any of the trustees at the banquet. PROMENADE REPORT. • Brown Reports a Surplus of $18.44. Chairman Charles Foster Brown of the 1916 Junior Promenade Committee has an- nounced a surplus of $18.44 on the recent da~ce. This indicates excellent manage- tnent on the part of the committee, inas- much a~ the affair- was the most elaborate .• t .of its kind ever undertaken by this college . . ( . .. . ~ .· • i Chairman Brown went to special expense to '. . . '. ·secure McKee's orchestra from New York ·f. I .. • · <_ .. : .. · · · al).d results showed that the expense was ··::. ·~: :. · . .'\~.f_~ly justified. The refreshments were also . ·: ;~ .. :of.' the highest order. ·. ,... ·:.~n. addition to being a financial success th~· P.romenade ~as hugely successful so- cially and was by far the event of the season for Schenctady and vicinity. It speaks well · . · for the college that its name can be asso- ciated with affairs of this high standard. Incidentally the class of 191~ through the efforts of the dance committee has been able to ·do something for Union that no other class up to the present time has done,- namely, the presentation to the college o£ substantial permanent decorations for the gymnasium in the shape of m?re than thir- teen hundred yards of bunting. 'The following is the report in detail : McKee's Orchestra (contract) -----$1 'lO 00 McKee's Orchestra (extra) -------- 18 00 Punch --------------------------- 19 00 Decorations ---------------------- Catering -- .... -----------~-~-~--·:_ __ _ Engraved ·invitations ---·---------- 300 supper tickets ---------------- Dance tickets --------------------- Programs ---------------·-------- Express on same ------------------ Telegrams ----------------------- Telepho-ne ---~------------------- Stationery (personal notes) ______ :... Labor (packing smilax) ---------- Stamps -------------------------- Maid _____ -- _______ -·-_______ --- __ Taxi (musicians) ___ .:. ____________ _ Labor (jan.itor and two sons Feb. 5 and 6) ·----------------------- ~apkins ------------------------- Rent ______________ . _ -·-__________ _ Team ----\------------------------ Incidentals ---------------------- Piano ------------·---~----------- 73 00 162 00 9 50 2 25 2 50 83 75 73 2 00 25 80 1 00 6 00 2 00 2 00 10 00 12 00 15 00 4 00 5 28 5 00 $606 06 100 tickets ------------·----------$400 00 25 stag tickets ---------·---------- 50 00 98 pairs of programs at $1.25 ------ 122 l>O Subscription --------------------- 32 00 Graduate Council ----·------------ 20 00 . $624.: 50 • Total receipts --------------------$624 50 Total expenditures --------------- 606 06 Net surplus ----------------------$ 18 44 UNION TO PLAY WILLIAMS. Union, Cornell and Brown are the thre-e ne\v teams on the Williams football schedule for 1915.. The wonderful 11 clean-slate\ rec-- ord of the Garnet team of 1914 aroused no small amount of interest in Williamstown , and as a result, the two teams will meet at vVilliamstown on October 2, 1915.

\ . ·•. .• 16 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Liter·ary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second· Class Matter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H. J. Delchamps, '15, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Upsilon House LITERARY EDITOR Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST 'thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Gerrnania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin. '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 ·D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porte~, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph.W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager. Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. (This issue of the Concordiensis was edited by Avrom ~1. Jacobs, '16.) KEEP YOUR HEAD. The team defeated R. P. I. just as we ex- pected they would. They played a good game, they earned their victory, and we re- joice with them. We are more pleased at defeating R. P. I. than almost any other col- lege. \Ve are near enough to them to have a friendly rivalry, and a victory for one is the sweetest of the sweet for the other. The game was played with the best spirit having been manifested by either side, and we ex- pectantly await the return game. The team is grateful for the student support it re- ceived, and so on, and so on. In fact, everybody is so satisfied that is great danger of something brec: Everything seems to have come our One is reminded of the man who felt s that he threatened to visit a doctor if 1:J any bett~r. It is just so with us. If w many more games, we too will be aff with a disease which in medical ter ' h 1\ . '' known as 'cep a 1c tumeros1ty, an campus parlance as ''swelled head.'' 1 soon we \\rill be taking personal credit ourselves for the team's record, and w fall so much in love with ourselves when the season is ended we will n stepladder to find ourselves. That is, 1 we take the proper precautions. Captain Houghton is a human bein his team are all human beings. Likt · they play against human beings, a there is always, in the dim distant f the chance of possible defeat. And th gular fact of the whole matter is this more games won, the greater the bu: case of a defeat. We may praise a te the skies, but let it lose just a single and the anvil chorus is out in full This is human nature. Pride goeth be fall, and it enjoyeth not that fall, eitb We must also remember that th another season ahead of us. We have · that cup three times. We all regre Erny and Teedy and the Beavers aret ing to take post-graduate courses, b must look at matters as they are. Th( is going to graduate this year. If v on too many airs, it is going to be a gi job for next year's team to satisfy t may be that next year's team will be provement on this. To see the secon<

.. -- THE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 '• scrapping the 'varsi ~y would make one in- clined to think so. But there is no need of handicapping either this year's team or that of next year by confidently expecting them to win every game. Perhaps a defeat is healthy. It certainly relieves the mental tension of a string of victories. • Of cottrse, we don't advise the team to lose a few games to prevent our heads from getting too big. In fact, this is not directed to the team at all, but to a student body who has got so used to victory that a defeat might cause it to be demoralized. Keep your heads, don't expect too much, let Erny run the team, and the final scores will take care of themselves. COLLEGE FUNCTIONS. Comments have been made this year that U ni~n students are supporting college func- · ·. . ·~~ions .. much better than they have in prev- . ~ ·.·. . . ·iou_s years. Whether or not this be true, .· .. . . . . ::~ ~ ,.L ·. .··and 've doubt it, if the increased member- • ,. ., .. : .. . ' · :_ ship of the college be considered, it is cer- . · tain that the number of students in the audi- ~ ence at chapel when there is a public enter- tainment is always an almost insignificant part. This year members of some of the courses had to be compelled to attend the Ichabod Spencer lectures. This is not the proper state of affairs. We should be more independent and not allow the few who do attend chapel lectures to be compelled to rely on the town folk to con- stitute the audience. If it were not· for the people of Schenectady, there would be no college musicals; in fact, we had to be urged in chapel to subscribe for these concerts, the cost of which is ridiculously small. If it were not for the people of the vicinity, our ] unior Promenade would not have been the splendid success it was. Usually there are more high school students than college students at our debates. And to think that a college as small as Middlebury charges admission to their debates, and has filled halls! There are some events coming which we cannot afford to miss. Alfred Noyes, the young English poet, widely talked ()f when the laureateship was open, is to deliver a public lecture here very soon under the . auspices of the Union College English Club. Alfred Noyes is a world figure. He is one of the world's leading literary lights. The English Club has -done a wonderful thing in obtaining him for us. We cannot afford to miss the opportunity of hearing him. Of entirely different nature is the elec- trical show, which is scheduled for early in April. We may be more confident of the success of this, because it is being managed by students, and this in itself will lend more enthusiasm. Its interest should not be wholly confined to the engineers. Even an academic should be interested in boilling eggs on ice. The academics have often· ac- cused the engineers of narrowness. Here is an opportunity for them to demonstrate their own broadness by supporting an en- gineering activity. ... t\ debate with Cornell also is coming, to which the s~udents are requested to attend. This year's debating subject is on a question of vital importance. It is a question upon which every enlightened man should have an opinion. There is no better way to form an opinion than to hear both sides presented at the same sitting. You are expected to attend the Alfred

I, .. . '. I \ ~I . • \ ., 18 THE CONCORDI£NSIS. Noyes lecture, the electrical show, and the Cornell debate. Break your other engage- , ments to do so . CHAPEL CONDU·CT. Union students are supposedly gentle- men, and so their conduct ought not belie them. In regard to chapel, some· specific re- quests have been made. Students should ar- rive promptly; they should stay there .after they have come; they should maintain a re- spectful silence V\rhile they are there. This is more serious than a casual thought vyould lead one to imagine. If we have any visitors, they are always brought to chapel to see how the students conduct themselves there. We ·can imagine no greater embar- rassnlent than that which would come to President Richmond in case he escorted ·an alumnus to chapel, and, as the services were about to begin, the entire sophomore or junior class should rise up and leave en masse. Equally great is his embarrassment· if he be compelled to stand three or four minutes and wait until the freshmen have settled comfortably in their chairs. It cer- tainly must be an inspiring sight to see men studying or whispering while prayer is be- ing delivered. But aside from the fact that outsiders might be present, chapel is God's house. It is a place Qf worship, the house wherein we are given our daily spiritual advice. ft should not be regarded as a place for rough- house, slumber, conversation, or study. The freshmen especially should realize that their. gallery is very noisy. On Iv.Ion- day, while Alma Mater is being sung, they should not make a mad scramble for the front row. ~----· -- ---- - ------·---- -- ---- .. - ~- .... --.-----~.... ----- . . -·~ -·-·- A little thought and co-operation wit remedy all these defects. If you cannot kee1 quiet in chapel, you are subnormal ; if yot can and will not, you are depraved. CAPTAIN DENT ON THE TRACK SITUATION. Though it is most unfortunate that th~ . . indoor track meet with R. P. I. had to bE cancelled, the track season this winter ha5 been far from a failure. 'Following the prac- tice on February 20 the winter's work will end. During the indoor practice severa] \finds~' .have ben developed and all the men have discovered their right distances. This should prove a decided advantage when out- door practice begins in the spring. The in- ter-class meets have, in a measure, :filled the place of collegiate dual meets. Conditions prohibited the planned R. P. I. meet. R. P. I. wished the regular inter-collegiate list of events including both the 100 yard and 220 yard dashes. We have no· facilities for prac-· tieing these events. It seemed best, there- fore, since not only could our men not hope to run these events succe.ssfully without practice,. but it also seemed dangerous for men unaccustomed to banked tracks to try to run them, so that the management thought it advisable to cancel this meet. This spring we have several hard meets and we are starting unusually early in the spring. Therefore we must get all the men in shape from two to three weeks earlier than usual and it will be advisable for all men to keep in some kind of shape between February 20th and March 22nd, the probable :first spring practice. This year we meet Ham- ilto.n, R. P. I., and probably Trinity and also enter the New York State Intercollegiates. With this heavy season before us it is ab- solutely necessary to get an early start and I am sure that the practice we have had this \\rinter will show in the form of victories in the spring. T. A. DENT, JR., Captain.

·· .. --- -~-------------------- ------- _______ __, __________ ........,..... ____ ,..-- THE CON'CORDIENSIS. 19 YE GENTLE SEASON' OF SPRING. Now doth the sportive dandelion begin to rear its yellow crest ! Now doth the festive billy-goat begin to · make ·its downy nest! Now the ichneumon gently makes his joy- ous way across the mead ! The sparrows now begin to look for worms and bugs and other feed! I ' 0 sweet it is to hear the gentle cricket us~er in the morn, To see the modest milk-maid meekly milk the cow with curved horn, To hear the jolly huntsman shoot-the bull give forth a cheerful bellow., 'fo know that all the grass is green and all the butterflies are yellow! I How pleasant are thy gentle showers, 0 April, and thy morning dews! The former wet our gladsome heads: the latter ditto to our shoes. The garden's shady walks now call for in- dolence and meditation~ .. And thoughts of one-steps, girls and boats, and other pleasures of vacation. Why should we linger at our books and vain- ly strive to heap up kn<>w ledge? The time has come to do the tliings for which we really came to college: To sit around and use up time and watch . the trees and grass and talk, Or bolt a class and meet a dame and take her walking for a walk. When baseball pools grow up each day, and sunrise comes at five o'clock, And purple socks and orange ties are seen on 'every city· block, vVhen profs keep lining in mo-re work and all the studes won't do a thing, Then do we know that thou art come, oh, gentle, pleasant, spring-like, spring! SHAKE-UP IN WESLEYAN TEAM. The Wesleyan five has undergone a com- plete change since mid-years, when fresh- rnen are eligible to play on the 'varsity team. As a result; Harman '18 is playing forward opposite Captain Eaton, and Rich- ards '18, one of· the guard positions. The season to date has not been up to the stand- ard set by past 'varsity teams, but it is the belie£ ~ere that with the changed line-up an improvement will be noticed. Wilkinson at center and· Hingely at right guard com- plete the line-up. Captain Eaton is un- dou.btedly the strength of the team, and Harman nearly as fast. Union meets Wes- leyan on the 19th and again on the 26th, the latter game being played in Schen~ctady. EDUCATION. \This· road below- is hard to go,\ the senior cried in sorrow; I hit the hem at 9 p. rn. and rise at 10 to-morrow. Four years have sped above my head, since I with lofty yearning did seek these halls and gray old \ralls in search of higher learning. My hopes were high and toward the sky they shot with speed tremendous. Like Jack who raised the Magic bean, my bean became stttpendous. But troubles lay along. my way and some there were that got me, for like a flock of angry fleas they speedily be- sot me. 'Twas wine and women, song and jest, 'twas Louis', Glenn's and Proctor's; th.en sermons, sodas, days of rest with dominies and doctors. I saw on high my Sig-ma Xi go floating off in vapor; my grades, once A, were on the way to Z with every caper.\ The senior smiled : \I'm reconciled; I've got a lot of knowledge, but Sigma keys don't grow on trees in Dr. Hard Knock's college.\ R. E. T ., '16. ORATIONS CLASS. Beany-Let's read your oration, Chuck. Chuck-\Vait until I read it.

r 1; i \ t ' ' I • ' l -~ ... 20 THE CONCORDIENSlS. I would I were a freshman, And with the freshmen roam, A freshman banquet 'neath my belt, No hair upon my dome. A·prop~s of the recent Innocent Bystand- er-Anti-Grind controversy, we quote Prof. Hayes of Cornell: \After twenty years' of teaching in American colleges, I find, sorry to say, that the Grind is an extinct species.'~ This is the Columbia \Spectator's\ ac- count of when an \atheletic correspondent\ takes an English literature course: Take Shelley, now. When that boy was in his prime you couldn't hold him down. He was full of pep; and the other bushers, like Keats and that crew, didn't shine in with him. Of course, the guy didn't always have a message in his dope, but you've got to kid yourself that you get his drift. Bad training put the kibosh on him after he passed the third sack. He signed up with Kid Booze and hit the bottle too much. That's what did for him. AT THE ELECTRICAL SHOW. Freshman A. B.-But, Mr. Lee, will you please explain how they nail the air to the poles in a wireless system? TWENTY-THIRD PSALM REVERSED. The Ford is my outo; I shall not want (another.) It maketh me to lie down underneath it. It soureth my souL Yea, though I ride through the I atn towed up the hills and I fea evil. Thy noise and thy rattle discomf· I cover thy tires with patches; thy r runneth over. I repair blow outs in the presence . enemtes. Surely if this follows me all the c my life I shall dw~ll in the Bug Hot ever. EVA FAY'S FORECAST. The follo,ving alarming prophecy a ed in one of the Troy papers last W aay: \The basketball players of Union they play the Institute,s five next Sa· will have to remember that they are a doomed to lose! Eva Fay, the \high pr] of mysticism,\ now at Proctor's, has fied the Institute that Union will lo game ignominously. It will be witl ings akin to pity that the 'Tute five ~ on the court. The \pep\ has gone < the game_. the issue is settled, all is ring down the curtain. The game \ be one of the most exciting of the sc too, and both teams were practicing for the game, but now what's the use seeress has said, so all that it is nece to d0 is to agree on a score that woulc the Cherry and White a neat lead of ; ten points and \call the game off.\ Bt game is to be played just the same be· Union's pedal extremities are not yet < In vie'v of Saturday evening's con ing score all we have to say is \'Tain'1 Here in Union we have so little fe. jinxes that we have elected a \Jinks\ tain of our football team for next yeat: are without trepidation over our act. THE 1916 GARNET. 'I'he embryonic 1916 Garnet will ac< ing to the prognostications of the h<

.... -----,-,---------,--,---------------------------. THE CONCORDIENSIS. 21 f •.\>til '~·; ... . . reach its maturity on or before May 1st. This sententious prediction bears with it the ominous warning that bashful and retic- ent (or is it ''sluggish\ and \delinquent\?) contributors must deliver their quota of Garnet \stuffing\ by March 15. It is to be hoped that all the juniors will promptly procure photographic fac similes of their physiognomies. Contributions of all sorts are earnestly solicited. Don't you see, fel- lows, what a chance this is for you to get you initials immortalized: in the corner of a design or ludicrous· cartoon or at the tail- end of a string of doggerel or as an anti- climax to a- yarn? . A special effort is being made to get real live pictures on the campus-- both groups and snap-shots. Here is . a chance for .. camera-fiends to get in their work. Just deposit your mite with Art Editor Ketchum or M.anager Danner and get their profuse thanks, etc., to add to your own satisfaction at ·having lent a helping hand in making the 1916 Garnet a \leader\ as the 1916 Prom has been. RHYMES FROM THE RIP VAN WINKLE REGION. . . . . 'There always live, by Fortune's will, ... :~~· ... -- .. ':' .. · :: ·In ev'ry age and clime, .:>·:: ... :,r,: ... , ·Some men whose fame or good or ill .-:~:. :-·,·.: ··.~ :.·: .:~ .Js mingled in after time. ·'• .. Then may the bard, impelled by right, As lies within his ken, -Do service more than deeds recite ~ . .: Of great but unknown men. Examples make the bad and low To teach mankit:td to live; To good, to great, to noble, true Due deeds of honor give? The Catskills bore to fame unknown Some Dutch from o'er the seas, ' I I' Whose words and works long ~ince have flown To Lethe on the breeze. As space forbids I sing but one, Till we may meet again, And he was America's son, A leader among men. Of all the tales from his they heard, Of things he \uster\ do, None e'er believed a single word Nor if they know it true. His ox-cart cut such yawning tracks In rocks beneath its load, His oxen towered by their backs, Alone about the road. He took the gate-house clear away Upon a strapping-load- No toll he'd pay to draw his hay \On any gol durn road!\ He went a-hunting, too, one day For squir'ls \beyond th' run.\ \He got a thousand,\ did you say? He didn't get a one! • \You're some hunter,\ laughed the girls, \You're huntin's like your fightin'.\ . I J, \I be,\ he howled, \but them durn squir'ls- 'y gol they're quicker'n Iightnin' !\ The men just winked and looking sly, \You're talkin' through your hat,\ Bill Dusenberry made reply, \They's nuthin' quick ez that.\ \I'd tramped all day\ (his story ran) \An' ·hadn't see a critter To· shoot at-I wuz some mad man! 'y gol but I was hitter !\ \ 'It's goin' to storm,' sez I to me, 'It's gettin' pow'rful dark,' When way up in a hemlock tree I heerd a squirrel bark.\ \I raised my gun, drapped on one knee, An' careful-like was sightin', When out th' cloud straigl}t for th' tree, There cum a streak of lightn'in.\ .J .... I '~~ ,-_- ,_ ··-·---

• · .. ~... ~·- \----·----~ 22 THE CONCORDIENSIS. uRight down th' tree th' lightlli'a' run, Th' squirrel give a jinny, Run down with 'chipper' feet fer fun, An' beat it off th' stump!\ Now Joe · is gone, we'll leave llim here ; Condemn hin1 if you must. Nay, rather weep above his bier~ Su~h genius chang'd to dust. J. B. TAYLOR, '16. CLASSICAL CLUB ACTIVE. The comrni ttee on reform of the Classical Club Tecently held an importaat meeting to draw up plans of action for the remainder of the year. A stricter form of membership was resolved upon and a scheme of initia- tion discussed. Austin Martin J15, has been busy arranging a program of J>ar>ers to be prepared for this and next term~ and has an excellent list in preparation.. The club plans to give a return entertainment to the Aneadae and Agora of the S. H. S. for last year_'s, entertainment by them. They also intend to have an annual banquet in the spring \' ... hen new officers are elected and neV\. 7 members taken in. One of the features of the club's work this year will be a Latin drama w.her.ein numer- ous campus dignitaries will :find ihemselves properly Latinized. Dr. Kellogg has com- pleted the scenario and written th~ prologue. More anon. Vale amici ! BEWARE-----THIS IS SER[OUS! A Telephoney Conversation. \Number please !'' \I\m not particular this morning.\ \Now cutey, not so smart! Wh()m do you want?~' \Well if you're going to be so 11asty, give n1e War.\ \You loV\r-down, low-brow, l<>w-life! You poor microbe! You insignificant,. infinitesi- nlal-\'' - ...... - ... ·- ......... _ -- - ---- ---- _.....__ .. \Hey lemme up! Whattuv I done \You ask for War, didn't you? gave you Hell ; it's all the same.\ 1 'N ow listen, are you listening, 1: desire to speak to that there E1 War.\ \Hello!\ ''Hello! That you Mr. War? Thi S. speaking. There's been a rumor that you 'vere tryi.ng to help me. true? What good are you to me an: ~:'Well, I'm a lot of good if you ' know it. You've been troubled o, servant proposition, haven't you? Y c housemaids, don't you? Well, I get you.\ HHow do you make that out.\ u\i\Thy, you see it's this way. I tak thousand nice young, healthy men day and ·kill 'em gently and make heroes out of them, don't I? Well fellows all have mothers, wives, and dependent upon them. Now here's the benefit ·comes in. When these · find their sons, husbands, and brother: also their means of support, what d do? 1~hey calmly sail over to your fa and solve the servant girl problem fo1 '~Well, well, I never thought of tha1 it reallv be such?\ _, r'\Yes and what's more I'm going t~ you some fine bunch of ·dames to V\ you too, believe me. I can let you swell crowd of baronesses and cout ·right now, and before long I'll slip yot princesses and queens. You ought · pretty big having Countess Von d' P~ serving your breakfast and the noble ·cess Jenny de F. de F. Wiffle dustin~ . ptano. ''Your right, War, old scout, you' such a bad sport after all. I call i good, Eddie.\ ''Well, guess that's all the time give you at present. Call me up sometime. If it's anything in the I

i • ! I \ ! ! . . ~ . ~. ~ 'J• ; .. 1 .. i. : ~ttf t ·.~· .. • THE CONCORDIENSIS. killing I'll be glad to oblige you. G' bye.\ \Thanks old man, g'bye.\ . ODE TO COLL-EGE SINGING .. In ancient days the sirens sang With music soft and low, 4-\nd laughed to see the sailors Shriek their frenzied cries of woe, i\s their ships with quiet grating Struck the hidden rocks below. In· Germany upon the Rhine, Sang a wondrous maiden fair, Who sported with the fishers, As she combed her glorious hair. And the fishermen entranced, Could do nought but sit and stare. Alas, to-day, no sirens sing; The Lorelei has gone, But Gerry leads with frantic hands Our discord wild and, strong. 'I'he freshman class is off the key, The sophomores are wrong. And the legend of the sirens, . · And the beauty of their song, \Are forgotten at the moment, When to the frantic student throng Comes the sudden realization · ·That the juniors; too, are wrong. But the story has a inoral, That I fain would have you see; They who heard the sweetest music · Lingered near eternity. Now of danger none may worry Save the writer-only he. SLIGHTLY PASTORAL. . · . . . I~ast summer uManny\ Clinnick '16 J de- cided to combine business and pleasure, so he got a job on a suburban farm and pro- ceeded to disguise himself as an indigenous Rube. 'rhat his incog was a success was conclusively proved by a story which recen1 ly can1e to light from one of our fair friend of this city. ''Among other interesting wild creature I met on Uncle John's farm last summer;· she told her chum, \was a young farmer whc said ''coaws\ with a perfect accent. H4 seemed very fond of me and said that he believed he liked me better than boile< pork and cabbage, which he called his \fav· orite fruit.\ Just before I left he approach- ed me \vith blushes and removing a timothy straw from his teeth asked if he might kiss me. He confided in a low voice that he had never kissed a girl before. And-\ \What did you say then?\ asked her chum. \I just told the young Rube that I wasn't an agricultural experiment station!\ (Nate: The hero tried to commit suicide with poison ivy.) WITH OTHER COLLEGES. Baseball practice began in the cage at Brown last week . Brown is holding an inter-fraternity pool tournament . vVhether or not the University of Illinois has the right to drop from the rolls all stud- ents not doing satisfactory work, will be de- cided at the spring term at the Illinois court when the suit of Miss Marie Seebach against the University of Illinois trustees will be heard. Miss Seebach was dropped from the University in 1908, when her work was un- satisfactory to the faculty. She had been in attendance at the University two years and had expected to get a teachers' certi- ficate at the time of her dismissal. M. I. T. has just adopted the uR~chester Experin1ent,\ a new and original scheme whereby the faculty can be of service to the student. \Tutor-advisers\ will be available for private consultation by the students daily. If the innovation proves a success, the work will be continued. ~-·r----------~--~~

' .... 24 THE CONCORDIENSIS., DIFFERENCE OF VIEW POINT. 'rhe dean of a western college, a rather hard-of-hearing old man, was showing a ne\v men1ber of the faculty about the grounds whe.n the chapel bells began to . 1Jng. uwhat beautiful chimes you have,\ ex- claimed the newcomer rapturously. \Beg pardon, didn't quite get you?\ ui say, what ·beautiful chimes you have!'' \Sor:ry to trouble you to repeat, but I'm a little deaf.\ ~',i\That beautiful-\ \D-· m those bells! They make such a racket I can't hear a word yqu say.\ at the beginning of a period. Th tee recommends the numbering < and deprecates the custom of ser stitutes into the game with .in from the coaches . A TOAST. VV e've toasted the freshman presid~ toasted the chairman too ; 'l\r e've toasted th.e faculty pres, we've toasted \me and you.\ Vl e've drunk as much as we're now it's tin1e to run, Last toast-and your foot on th here's a health to old Union! CHANGES IN FOOTBALL RULES. _ We 1 'started\ before the banquet, Few fundamental changes were niade in drunk before it began; tlie 1915 rules by the Football Rules Com- And now we're hardly sober, but mittee. A forward pass out of bounds is to can drink like a man. be considered incomplete whether it strikes vV e've paid for our drinks as we a player or not, and if such a pass occurs on we'll pay for more e'er we're the fourth down, the ball will go to the op- Last toast-and of obligation-] ponents at the last line of scrimmage. Also, health to old Union ! hereafter players may be resubstituted only uA STEV ~------------~---------------~--~·

• i . , ' .. If you want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hast:y Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bros. ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as itsrelation to quality. $3.00 would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful higll price to pay for a \movie.\ Steefel prices now are 25 90 off- the qualities are of the \opera\ type-high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our prices we say good-bye to profits-the farewell isn't sad, however, because it sends out our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. -·---- -- ------ NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS . All the Latest Novelties in WALL PAPER' AND DECORATIONS Sun 5 & 10e Wall Paper Store 411 STATE STREET. Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454-J. NOTHING OVER 10 CENTS. WATERS, Custom Tailor 15& BARRETT STREET Imported an·d Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For silmpl~ and prices, aee ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hili, Ph one 1915-J YOUNG MEN!- Step Into a Pair of 0111' SURE-FIT Shoea Here we picture two of the newest luts for young men who keep apace with the shoe fashions. Correct tor college, school or bualneea. Natty enough tor dress wear. Valuea llke th••• are only poeslble In a metropolitan • tor • like Patton lc Hall'•. PATTON & HALL !45 STATE ST. Below tlae .......

\ \ t More College News IN THE Read Eve Ds GAZETTE 5 FOR ·YOUR DEN · Beau.tiful College Pennants 5 There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Telephone. Yale and Hardvard, Each 9 in. x 24 in · ..----------__,.....------------ Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21- in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30--4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection AU of our be'st quality, in their proper colors,· . with colored emblems. · Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds·. The Gem City Novelty Co. 623'7 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. I Nott Terrace Home Bakery- C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258- J. L. SCHWARTZ Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 N ott Terrace Schenectady, N. Y. Ral Ra! Ra Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the 1: you have ever 1 taken) and a print your Class Book One Dollar. See JY. A. Hughes, Pyramid Clt~li, College Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady' • Leading Flower Shop :ifuliu.a 1.Egtr · .~· , . . ORCHIDS, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED THE ' BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Cia: Service. Ask the Man Who been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable ---~-------------

.. ;.. ~., ___ ,.- -- --- Bellinger Paint Co. PAl NTS. _ OILS Dealers in all kinds of Wax Polishe1 212 So. Centre St. · ~ ts Walk-Over shoes wiD Ia ke ~~ ,., you anywhere and back. LET YO.UR NEXT PAIR BE Walk-Overs. 407 State Street, Schenectady A. R. Zl .ta's Orchestra furnished music at Union College 1905 - - _ 'o6, 'or, 'o8, 'og, '1o, '11, '12 '13 & '14 · Best Dance Music in t.he World g~~·,t~~!Es!:!f:e~·~:eBetterforConcert Office and Res.,\167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber \ .. We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. ... ' · ... . ·' \ -~) . . ..,. ' .. ~: EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps. Portables, :Etc • 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street . ~·. t. ·.. ;r ... ~ r:' ~;;r. ''!!' >.;\i. :'.-•. ., . ' ' • -~;t~ /.'· .· .... - ... · .Solicits Accounts of Students ''\U'}~., . .., • . . I .. ~)lt;i'>,t ~·- ·..• . ~- ·~-------------- .t'---~~:~:~: /. .. :· .. , ' .... ~· .. ·... W. A. BULLIS \:'- :...... l, ..... }., .. .' • • :. I jl ~'-~ . -~ ~-~·;·· : :Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars~ Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts . .. \' . ' . · served at his fountain. Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. .. Suits Made to Order from $18 to $35. A.GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanit~rr Cleaning~ Pressing, Altering and Re- . patrtng of Lad1es' and Gents' Garments . 870 Eastern Ave., Bet~ Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigar& Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES # 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620-W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D •. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eye• Te1ted and G1Ataea Fitteci THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

.. \ .. · l,\' ..-.,,;~·,I • •# \ • • ' • # • ~_.• '!··' •,r'f!, ~'.•• •' In every walk of life you'll find good old \Bull\ Durham Men of action, men with red blood in their veins, w:Lo do the world's work, and do. it well, learn to ap- preciate things at their real worth. They are not fooled by frills-they demand honest value3. These are the millions of men all over the earth wllo find complete, healthful enjoyment and lasting satisfaction in \Bull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes. GENU IN£ aBUL( DURHAM· SMOKING TOBACCO Th.ese fresh, fragrant cigarettes they roll for them- selv~, with their own hands, to their own liking, from ripe, mellow \Bull\ Durham tobacco, suit their taste better than any cigarette they can 'buy ready-made. ••Bull\ Durham hand-made cigarettes are a Jutinctive form of tobacco enjoyment-wonderful- ly comforting and satisfying. Their {reshnes& and flavor are a revelation. Roll a cigarette from \B=on'~ Durham today. F .REE An l!luatrated Booklet, · ahoWJng correct .---.., wayto\RollYour ~~- ... \\i: OwD•• Cigarettes, and a Package of ciguette papers. will both be nailed, free, to any address in tle United States on postal reque'lt.. Addresa •cBull'• Dur- ham, Durham,.N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. A•k For FREE JHJclta•• of •• paper•' • with each Sc •aclc.

I ~ I I . I ' ---------------~-------------------------------------------1 ~ ~ : • : .... ·.. • .. -; ' i .. , ... -,. oli ·\ • • 'I '... . ' .f-' •• ~ ~. ',, ••· f: . . . ...... ! t ·' . · .. ' • ' j \\t.. .. 1 • '. •• f ·'' OF COURSE there is always a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these calls are most necessary. Save for the necessary one& In the The Schenectady Savings Bank COR. STATE AND CLINTON. The Gleason Book Co. The Edison 104 Jay Street · Gleaaon Building \On your way to the poat office\ American Plan All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 Dealers in College Goods too numerous to include in the Edwim Ch1te, Prop. . Schenectady, N. Y. \Concordy\ The PURE FOOD Store , The PURE FOOD ·Store 161 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, N. Y. THE OUTLET Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmacaan in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling Sweaters and Banners Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Room I & II, Middle Section South Colle~e Arthur Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

The Schenectady Clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full • Dreaa Acceeasories Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clothing ·Co. 313-315 State Street Telephone 91-W The OAK Barber Shop 428 STATE STREET. M. F. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORING CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. -, I JUST WRIGHT SHOES Reductions on Winter Weight Shoes worth your while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTO·M TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty Sl Schenectady, N. Y ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. • Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State ~------- --~ ----- 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Beat in Everything for the Table at the lowest 1 Cash Prices. 1 QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street

I t \'\ ... .. . ,,. .. . . ~ . .,. . . , . :~~ ·-; . .__.::' ; ·~\~./' l'' ' --..... t Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162-64-68 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y . . Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices. MUSICAL ENTERTAINME'NT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOW A, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on the Hill. H. J. Schwartz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made-to-Measure Clothing at · less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. The ... Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. . Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. · 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y • Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. \' C .. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. . . IN A HURRY WHEN IT RAINS . . . · · OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER Be HICKS The Capitol Diatrict'a Greatest Trunk & Leather Gooda Store Buy ba~.Za~e with the 5 year ~uarantee ,.\,.WA \a 177 Jay Street --~AXO~- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. • £. Albany, N. Y • .. ~.. ..• .REPAIRING SPALDING'S for nearly forty yean-have been the onea to think out, and put on the market, things really nerD in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this y,ear? A. G. Spalding & Bros. 520 1 ~~~~ ... ~~N~U. 8 ¥::: Send fer CataJo~ue S. A. Hamilton . GROCER· 841 Union St . Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Buildinr 2Oth Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Street, •'On your way to the Post Office\ • ' •

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx \ Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart,. Schaffner & Marx tail ora. College men like the,se clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us • t1me. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY •I • ScbenectaJy ......... Art Pres11 -- -- - ~ ·- ... -----· ___ .....__.... ___ ~- .

Sty lea, are all Marx clothes us CTADY .. . .. . . ·~·\' ~-\- .- • 0 ~ • '..;, . •• ,._- ~---- -.-.·..0.::.. ~ ·~ PVBliSHED~WEEKLY BY·THE \. STVDENTS~ OF· VNIOI\T· COLLEGE Union Defeats Wesleyan and Williams VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 25th, 1915 NO.1

'i ! \ :I UNION UNIVER ITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. Du Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1.. Ceurses leadi11g to the degree of A. B .. CLASSICAL CouRSE A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Course leading to the degree of Ph. B .. LATIN -ScrEN'l'IFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Course leading to the deg·ree of B. S. SciENTIFIC CouRSE-This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Course leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. :;. Courses leading to graduate degrees. CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE oF M. C. E.-This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. Lo V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News. Confectionery Phone 2925 .. W 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CouRSE LEADING To DEGREE o~· M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. COURSE LEADING '1'0 DEGREE OF PH. D.-This course of two years. of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N ~ Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent. Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: WILLIS G. TucKER, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARKER, ]. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $Io; tuition fee, $1 IO. For catalogue or other in formation, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALFRED B. H UESTI<:D, Secretary, ''Everything for the College Man except E:x:smfi'' GUNNING '16 SWEATERS, MACKINAWS, PENNANTS, BANNERS AND PILLOW COVERS Middle Section, So. Co1le~e Phone 1472-W Fink's Pharmacy The College Smol'e and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate

sts of ss Y. by prac- Y. of state its B. is fee, Y. even TRADE MARK The Guarantee of Excellence on Goods Electrical LATEST STYLES--MEN'S French, Shriner & Urner Shoes $6.00 to $8.50 Known wherever Good Shoea are worn • AU atylea and: leathers LINDSAY BROS. CO. COR. STATE AND WAU. STS. The Cain's Leadinal exponents of Modern Dancinal in Schenectad7 and Vicin· ity. New Pupils received every Mon- day, Wednesday & Saturday, 3 to 5 and 7:30 to 9 p. m. Pri· vate Lessons b y appointment. Assembly on Monday at 9, at ARCADE HALL Res. Phone 1920 Hall Phone 2710-W Fellows come down and get acquainted with G I El t • NICKLAS Phone 2322-W. enera ec rtC 169JayStreet Company Largest Electrical Manufacturer in the world 3159 EXCLUSIVE HATTER and FURNISHER E. & W. Shirts and Collars, Fownes' Gloves for all occasions, Opera and Silk Hats, Canes, Bags and Suit Cases. Everything for well dressed men. '1' ~ ; '

Babbitt Clothes Are far superior to the ordinary ready ma·de clothes because they are the equal of the finest custom tailor's output. ~We ar1 sole agen.ts in this tri·eity territory for Rogers Peet Co. and . ''The Frankel Fifteen\ (The greatest $15 clothing proposition in America) BABBITT & CO. Albany's Greatest Clothiers 451-453 BROADWAY @)a...c.P. THE PAST AND PRESENT Keep abreast with the times. We are not living in the stage-coach decade, at which time the mentioning of flying machines would have been taken as an idle jest. In the present cen- tury you wouldn't think of traveling as oWe did in by-gone days. Neither would you hav.- ing your shoes repaired by the old style hand method way, if you knew the superiority in our up-to-date machine way of repairing. BALL'S QUICK SROE REPAIRING WORKS 438 State Street Free Order Service Opposite Jay Street Telephone 3456 Higgins' ( Drawin~ Inb I Eternal Writin~ Ink En~roaain~ Ink I Taurine Wucila~e ) Photo Mounter Paate I Drawin~t Board Paate Liquid Paate ll Office Paste V eietable Gluea etc. ARE THE FINEST AND BEST INKS AND ADHESIVES Emancipate yourself from corro- sive and ill~smel1ing inks and adhe- sives and adopt the HIGGINS' INKS AND ADHESIVES. They will be a revelation to you, they are so sweet, clean, well put up, and withal so efficient. AT DEALERS CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO. Manufactures Branches, Chicago and London 2 71 Ninth St. Brooklyn, N. Y. The Sign of the Golden Robin TEA ROOM CANDIES PARTY AND DINNER FAVORS 31 Steuben Street, ,,, ·'\\

Christy Mathewson Famous Baseball Pitcher, says: 16 Tuxedo geta to me in a natur'al, pleasant way. It's what I call good- honeat companionable tobacco·-ithe kind to atick to. ', Tuxedo Keeps You In Good Trim , Christy Mathewson, lpv- ingly known as \The Old Master,\ is probably the greatest pitcher baseball has ever known. This won- derful athlete is noted for his clear headed common sense, his quick wits, perfect physical condition, and absolute control over his nerves. His use and en- dorsement of Tuxedo prove that this inspiring and healthful tobacco is helpful to mind and body. Tlie Perfect Tohacco for Pipe ancl Cigarette just sort of oozes its gentle way into your life and suddenly you realize its powers for good-because it puts peace in your mind and a happy taste in your mouth. Tuxedo's flavor is so enticingly mild and delicately fragrant it will not irritate the most sensitive throat. All the bite and sting have been removed by the famous \Tuxedo Process-\_ _ This exclusive process of refining the very best Kentucky Burley tobacco has been widely imitated, but without success. YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE Conyenient, glassine-wrapped, .SC Famous green tio, with gold } 0 moisture-proof pouch. • • • lettering, curved to fit pocket C In Tin Humilors, 40c and BOc In Glas& Humidors, SOc and 90c THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY ,, . <l

Say Fellows: Bring in you,r laundry and save money ·• To Cure c.old . Note these Prices: Shirts aU Kinds ..................... lOc . c.ollars .. - ... - ........................ 2·c ; Union :Suits . . . . . . . ................ lOc • Underwear, Night Shirts and Pajam;as. . . . ........... 6c each . · Hose . . . . . . . . . . ...... , ...... 3c per pair · Handkerchiets ....................... 2c Barrow's Hand Laundry 738 State Stret!t We Solicit Your Patronage. You Need Our Guarantee. Cluett & Sons. One Price Piano House. EVERY THING MUSICAL. 508 State Street, Schenectady Makera of Caps, Go-wns and Hoods To the American Colleges and Universities from the Atlantic to the Pacific. Class contracts a specialty UNION STUDENTS The Are invited to open a check account with us. Accounts (){ Clubs, Fraternities and Associations solicited. . . . Schenectady Trust Co. 318-320 State Street • • ftl· BUY A GAS HEATER (tJ • MOHAWK GAS CO. Phone 2500 Pictures and Picture Framing, Art Sup- plies and Gold Gilding. Decorating and Paper Hanging. House and Sign Painting. S. E. Stanes' Art ~tnrt No. 7 New York Central Colonnade New York Telephone Schenectady, N.Y. Hosiery, Underwear, Sweaters and KNIT GOODS FOR MEN UNITED KNITWEAR COMPANY 467 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. .. }

• ,; . - \' .. . ..._-. ....~ .... \-- . Clothing Furnishings Hats· We're ready whenever you our. Why not come to-day? The newest and best in each depa.rtm~en t. ~ Wells & Coverly TROY \If It's Made of Rubber We Hare It\ · m Athletic Goods Rubber Goods Auto Goods Auto Tires m Alling Rubber Co. 229 State Street 26 Stores CANDIES Huyler's, Park & Tilford's, Pirika, N a- bility. FRESH STOCK ALWAYS PHOTO DEPARTMENT Complete in Every Respect. EVERYTHING IN GOOD D.RUGS Lyon's 335 STATE ST. 714 HAMILTON 13 McCLELLAN Cor. EASTERN Ave. KEELER'S ----EUROPEAN~~ HOTEL and Cabaret at 9 P. M. '.Broadway and Maiden tane Albany, N. Y GENTLEMEN ONLY 250 ROOMS Ladies' Restaurant Attached. Special New Rathskeller. Bowling Alley and Billiard Room. Twenty .five Private Dining Rooms W m. H. Keeler, Prop. Annex, 507-509 Broadway FURNITURE NEARLY 30 YEARS of honest dealings in Schenectady has placed us at the top notch of retailers. When you read a COFFIN BROS. ad you know it is true. We aim at all times to carry the most complete line of Kitchen Wares, Wooden Wares, toys, games, fancy goods and brassware. We invite you to call. COFFIN BROS. · 303-305 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Fine Imported .. . .. . . and Domestic Woolens Telephone 2323-J GEORGE A. MANNY CUSTOM TAILOR 170 Jay Street Schenectady, N. Y. The Best in Cream, Butter, Etc. Ferry Street Creamery 'Phone 1208 107 So. Ferry Street ''Look for the Cow's Head.\

Ready to Wear and Custom Made STYLISH CLOTHES FOR YOUNG MEN · Comparison is the , . Lever That Turns . 'Trade Our Way This is the busiest store in Schenectady, through inviting Comparison with merchandise you see elsewhere, where quality, fabric, superiority ot workmanship and newness of design are important features and you will prove by your own comparison, consistant alliance in all our offerings and dealings. Just step in before you buy else- where. The convenience of an open account to all College Student is yours for the asking. 10 Per Cent reduction on all purchases of $10 or over if this ad is presente.d at the time of purchase. 503 - 507 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. Saul's G. Wm. Slaght, Mgr. N. Y. 'Phone 360-W I AM YOUR NEAREST SHOEMAKER N. Y. Phone 1270- W All Work Called for and Delivered f'ree The Union Electric Quick Shoe Repair Shop S. SOBELL, Manager. The only machine in the city, operating its own channel while sewing on the sole. Turns the shoe out like new. A few popular items : Men's soles, sewed ________ 75c Ladies' soles, nailed ________ 40c I..,.adies' soles, sewed _______ 60c Men's Heels _______________ 25c Men's soles, nailed ____ so to 60c Ladies' Heels ________________ 20c Our prices are as reasonable as can be asked. Best leather used and all work guaranteed. 603 LIBERTY STREET, (Near Lafayette) SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Full RUBBER SOLES __________ -------- ----\\7- ------------ __ $1.50, $1.75 ''The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1tno WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 1908 1914 CARL DANNER, BetaTheta Pi NEAR BARNEY'S College Repreaentative 1915 ROW SHIRTS are in every style suitable for city ~r country, frolic or function. The colors are fast, the styles smart and right-the patterns correct-insist on the label. $I.SO and up Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers Let's Meet at \Joe's\ New Dining Room Students' Tuck Shop A BREAKFAST BETWEEN CLASS A FEED AT NIGHT. ORDERS DELIVERED One Minute from Payne Gate. Back of St. John's Church. 'Phone 298-W. 722 Eastern Ave.

The Concordiensis VOL. 38 FEBRUARY 25, 1915 NO.l6 UNION 20, WESLEY AN 18. lT nion 20, vV esley.an 18, is the result of the game played in Middletown Friday night. As one would judge from the score, the gam,e was a close one throughout. The addition of several freshmen to the squad since mid-year has so built up the Wes- leyan five that it necessitates fast and con- sistent playing to cope with her. The trip to Middletown is a long and hard one and the showing the Garnet five made against the ~Iassachttsetts quintet was a good one. Two of the new Wesleyan 'varsity men are Harmon '18 and Richards '18, both of whom play excellent basketball. Harmon together with Captain Eaton, a veteran star, played the most brilliant games for W es- leyan against Union. Captain Hough ton and the Beavers put up the best work for the Garnet. In a fast contest Union defeated Williams at Williamstown Monday night with the score 2:-3-20. Althou~h Union was at a dis- advantage on the small Williams court, she led the Purple throughout, although the guarding was so close that she could not break loose long enough to get a large lead. At times the game was somewhat rough and at no time could the Garnet put her superior team work in to play successfully. Practically all the Union score was made oft long shots. Captain I-Ioughton sent the ball through the ring three times and tnade good seven out of ten chances on free throws. Woods scored two field baskets, and Mudge 1 and the Beavers one each. PEACE SPEAKING CONTEST. The local peace speaking contest, given under the auspices of the New York Inter- collegiate Peace Association, wiH take place in the college chapel next Saturday after- noon. The subjects of the orations will bear upon the general topic of international peace. Four men are to take part in the speaking: Karl Agan, 15; James Fitzgerald, '15; Ernest Houghton, '15; and Newell Smith, '16. The successful contestant will be awarded a money prize of twenty-five dollars and will be delegated to represent the college in the state contest, which is to be held in the College of the City of N evv York, on Friday evening, March 12. The first and second prizes in the state con test V\rill be $200 and $100 respectively. The winner of this trial is to represent the state in the final inter-state contest. AU the prizes are being offered by Mrs. Elmer Black through the N e'v York Peace Society. The subject of international peace should be a very interesting one. It vviU be well worth while for any one to attend the con- test, get a few new ideas, and incidentally hear some real good speaking. All the students and the general public are cordially invited.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. SOPHOMORES WIN INTER~CLASS BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP. The sophomores and. the freshmen who were tied for inter-class basketball cham- pionship played the deciding gan1e in the gymnasium on February 18 with the follow .. ing result: Sopho1nores -------,----·-------------- 25 Freshn1en ---------·----------------- 5 The line up of the teams was as follows : 1917--Wallace, r.f.; Peterson, l.f.; Jenkins, c.; Friday, l.g.; Rosecrans, r.g. 1918-Bennison, r.f.; MeGill, l.f.; Peas- lee,c. ; Calkins, l.g. ; Rockwell, r.g. The game between the seniors and juniors was won by the latter with the score : Juniors ---------- ~----------------- 10 Seniors ---------------------- --·---- 6 FRESHMEN WIN INTER-CLASS TRACK MEET. On February 16, the freshmen won the indoor inter-class meet which consisted of three meets held in the g:ymnasium on Feb- ruary 2, 11 and 16. The final score shows the freshmen well in the lead, and the juniors second with the sophomores run- ning close. Final score : 1918 -------------------------------- 73 1916 --------------·----------------- 52 1917 ----·--------------------------- 50 1915 ------·------------------------- 10 Meet on February 16 : 40 yard low hurdles-First and second, Mallen '16 and Taylor '18; third, Butler '16; fourth, Morrison '17. Tim,e, 6 seconds. 40 yard dash: First, Morrison '17; sec- ond, Epstein '18; third, Taylor '18; fourth, lVIallen '16. Time-· 4 4-5 seconds. 440 yard run: First, Dent, '15; second, Stevens '17; third, Northrup '18; fourth, Taylor '18. Time, 63 2-5 seconds. . 1,000 yard run (12 laps) : First, Hance '18; second, Majewski '17; third, McLean '18; fourth, Gilman '18. Time, 2 minutes, 55 2-5 seconds. 150 yard potato race: First, Taylor '18; second, Stevens '17 ; third, Friday '18 ; fourth, Epstein '18. Time, 32 1-10 seconds. Running high jump: First, Peterson '17; second, Miller '17; third, tie, l\1allen, '16, Butler '16. Height, 5 feet 6 inches. 12 pound shot put: First, Stoller '16, 42 ft. ; second., Jenkins '17, 40 ft. 1-2 in.; third, Rockwell '18, 39 ft. 6 in.; fourth, Mallen '16, TH.E ALFRED NOYES LECTURE. Saturday evening Dr. Richmond intro- duced to a large and responsive audience in the college chapel, Alfred Noyes, the rising young English poet. In the introduction Dr. Richmond said : \Professor Palmer lectured about poetry, hut we have to-night with us a real poet. The men who are blessing the v.rorl d most are the seers and poets of the world.\ Mr. Noyes soon sho\ved that he coveted Dr. Richmond's name of seer and that his chief aim was like the prophets of old to lead n1en to God. Not merely the ''God of their fathers,\ for Mr. Noyes is no reaction- ary. Re seems to have taken just one step backward, as so many of his countrymen ap- pear to have done this year but only to join hands with all in a re-awakened England in the tnarch to the promised land that the spirit of the race has foretold. For so long the younger literary people have been talking about liberty as if it were only possible when all belonging to what it considers a time of bondage was entirely cast off and destroyed, that it make-s one gasp and then realizes that he is giving one a firmer hold upon life when ~/fr. Noyes comes along and boldly declares that liberty makes use of all the best exper- ience of the race and faith in life and things eternal. Glancing at the newest manifestations of art, the speaker said too much emphasis was being 1 aid on one principle, all kinds of com- plex subjects being treated as if they were simple. The poets were in danger of losing the light, he said, not because it was not ·. I, I

'18. ' '16, ft. ; ird ' '16 ' ro- . lfl . us to of . . tn ng ng of en gs of as re THE CONCORDIENSIS. II there but because there had been so 1nuch analysis they could not see the whole for looking at the minutely studied parts. They had lost the thought that we \cannot pluck a flower without troubling the stars.\ There was too great a rush after novelties which :f they cannot be reconciled with the tested worth of what has gone before, should be rejected. He said there was so little realiza- tion of the deeper meanings of life that a vvTiter would say \life is divine\ one day and next day when an earthquake had occurred, ·vvould write as if the world were just a blood stained jest. 'rhere must be a grasp of spir- itual things that vvill enable the poet to see the -w~hole u!lity of life as clearly as a Thom- as a Kempis saw it the lecturer declared. All n1odern paradoxical writers were proving very successfully, he said, that the horse \vas being drawn by the cart. Poets would find an unhesitating assump- tion of a fundamental order and unity in the universe, a basis of ultimate harmony, he urged, and he pointed to the great war as one of the influences that were forcing the leaders of thought back to this necessity. \All great art brings us into the harmony which is behind the universe,\ he said. In speaking of how art could show the temporal in its relation to the eternal, he said that all creative work should be based on the guiding thought of the greatest of books, which opens with the words, \In the begin- ning God.\ It was not the poetry that is con- ventionally thought of as religious poetry that he brought in to emphasize the idea that the great poets all looked toward this light, but he found it in the Shakespeare song which says \Journeys end in lovers' meet- ing\; in the work of Shelly, of Keats, of vVordsvvorth, Tennyson, Swinburne and again in the greatest of them all when the great tragic hero says to the friend who can- not bear the separation that his death is bringing, \Absent thee frotn felicity awhile.\ The readings that the poet gave, though he particularly stated that they were not given as exa1nples of the attainment of the great aim that he set poetry, yet showed his audience very clearly that Mr. Noyes is ll;lUCh more than a delightful teller of tales. 'They were so human and refreshing, always with an upward glance and sometimes a real giin1pse of the great light. He read '''The Barrel Organ,\ \The Adn1iral's Ghost,\ \'rh e Lord of Misrule,\ and others. CORNELL DEBATE . By this issue of the Concordiensis, the Cornell debate will have been a thing of the past. We cannot, however, figure on the re- sult with enough certainty to enable us to write up an account of it in the past tense and tell hO'w Blodgett, Jacobs and Sternfeld all starred, -vvhile Eddy did yoeman service as alternate. If the 111.en by this time have won, we congratulate them; if they have lost, all Vile can says is: \Better luck next tin1e.\ ;rhe freshn1an team is at work on their debate with l\iiddlebury. They expect to \vin but again, over-confidence is danger- ous. The fresh1nen are hot upon the trail of the sophomores. This year's freshman- sophornore debate is going to be a dandy. CHEB'liCAL SOCIETY MEETING. A regular meeting of the Union College Chemical Society was held in the Laboratory on Monday evening, February 15. After the election of a few new 111embers, a very inter- esting exposition of the manufacture of sugar from beets was given by C. D. Lowell '1 6. The speaker traced the toothsome viand fro1n Michigan fields to dining roo1n table. Much interesting discussion both as to the chemistry and technology of t.he process was brought forth. Tuesday, the twenty-third, the juniors and seniors taking work in the Department of Chemistry undertook an excursion of in- spection of Schenectady's garbage reduction and sewage disposal plants.

12 Tf-IE CONCORDIENSIS. EXCHANGE. At a baUot of the students of Princeton taken recently 960 voted against compul- sory chapel attendance and 19'9 for it. vVould the faculty take the risk of a simi- lar vote here? Princeton students have petitioned for a course in military instruction. Coach Sexton of the Harvard baseball team favors allowing college players to ac- cept money for summer baseball from any clubs except those in the major or minor leagues. Charles M. Hall of Niagara Falls has will- ed $2,800,000 to Oberlin College. The Colgate basketball team was beaten by the Denison team by the score of 45 to 34. Harvard, Dartmouth and Brown have all cotnmenced baseball practice. To date, there are two kinds of teams that are conceded to have a good amateur stand- ing everywhere. These are the college chess and debating teams. The Alumni Federation of Colu1nbia Uni- versity passed a resolution in favor of inter- collegiate football and they also pledge themselves to co-operate with the students in their demand for football. The University of Michigan boasts of ex- ecllently equipped scientific laboratories. One .instrument that deserves special mention is a wireless apparatus having a working range of 3,000 miles. To forgetful freshmen and to those who have not had the enlightenn1ent of a Latin course: Don't appear ignorant before the old grads; remember that the singular is \alumnus\ and the plural \alumni.\ WESLEY AN'S FOOTBALL SCHEDULE CUT DOWN. \Vesleyan's football schedule, announced recently, provides for eight games instead of nine, as heretofore. Union and Brown have been ·dropped and the University of Norwich added. The schedule follows: Oct. 2, Rhode Island State College at Mid- dletown; Oct. 9, Norwich at Middletown; Oct. 16_, Bowdoin at Middletown; Oct. 23; Amherst at Amherst; Oct. 30, Worcester \Tech\ at Middletown. Nov, 6; Williams at Middletown; Nov. 13, Ne\v York University at New York; Nov. 20, tfrinity at f-Iartford. Wesleyan lost its first dual swimn1ing meet here, Amherst taking the contest 40 to 22---Ex. Y. M. C. A. Bible classes, one in each fraternity house, are progressing in good shape and being well attended. 1'he neutral Bible classes seem to have disappeared this year. The book used this year is \The Student's Stand- ards of Action,\ by Elliott and Cutler. The following courses in mission study hold ·weekly meetings Monday evening and are very popular: \Islam \Uncivilized Asia and Africa,\ \India Awakening,\ '~The Emergency in China.\ 1'hough these classes are already started, it is not too late to get in and get some good, practical ideas. Those who miss these courses, miss a mighty good thing. ENGLISH CLUB. At a meeting of the English Club Monday, February 15, Morris Gilbert, '17, read an in- teresting paper on Alfred Noyes. Julius Warren, of the· English Department of the Schenectady High School read several of lVf r. Noyes's poems. This meeting of the club served as a sort of seminar in prepara- tion for the Alfred Noyes lecture. The Eng- lish Club took charge of the sale of tickets to the undergraduates for this lecture. Stoll the First: What is a lacolite? Ditto the Second: Total darkness. ) . l '.· ... I t·

23; ov. ork; • t 40 . The and . the of the ) ' l ''· ... I t· I ~; THE CONCORDIENSIS. 13 CLASSICAL CLUB ACTIVE. Tuesday evening, February 16, the Classi- cal Club held a banner meeting. Forty ~em­ bers were present. )1\fuch important busi- ness was discussed. Professor Bennett spoke as representative of the executive cotn- n1ittee. The Latin play will probably be held in the gymnasium and ample provision made for a large number of guests. Martin '15 reported on programs. Messrs. Randles, Sharp and Fitzgerald of the class of 1915 are to entertain the club with papers. Randles will discuss the \Influence of Ter- ence on the French Poet l\1oliere.\ Dr. Kellogg reported on the progress of the play, vvhich is nearly completed. There vvill be nine scenes. Among men specially needed \vill be a quartet of good singers. J. Taylor reported on the expense of a club picture for the ·Garnet. The club decid- ed to have the picture taken. President Fitzgerald appointed a com- 111ittee for drawing up a club constitution. After business was completed, Dr. Kel- logg entertained the club with selected read- ings from Horace's Odes. ALUMNI NOTES. The following alumni visited on the hill during the past week: Peter Nelson, '98 ; Lester Hubbard, '00; John O'Donnel, '06 ; R. Sherman, '06 ; Harold Goodman, '11 ; S. B. Travis, '11; Allen Patterson, '12; R. D. Shepard, '12; J. T. Howell, Jr., '14; Bert Lacey, '14; Joseph Telfer, '14; J. E. Riley, Jr., '12; l)avid B. Page, '78; Alexander Page, '78; and Walter S. McEwan, '95. PHI BETA KAPPA TO HOLD A MEET- ~ ING IN ALBANY SATURDAY. Invitations have been issued for the an- nual dinner of the Upper Hudson Associa- tion of Phi Beta Kappa at the Ten Eyck Hotel, Albany, Saturday, Febr-uary 27. Ac- ceptances have been received fro1n \Uncle San1\ (Dr. John Huston Finley) Zoroaster, Orpheus, Justinian, Kant and other repre- sentatives of ''World Culture.\ It is ex- pected many others will appear in character and take part in the discussion. The officers are making the endeavor to reach all .Phi Beta Kappa men; to urge them to become tnemhers of the association. The officers are: Pres,ident, Dr. Finley; vice-president, Judge V\liUiam Platt Rudd; secretary-treas- urer, Dr. l\t1orton ·Collins Stewart; executive ec:>mn1ittee, Gardner Cottrell Leonard, Al-- bany; l{ev. Edward Wilc.ox Babcock of Troy, Dr. Albert Warren Ferriss of Sara- toga Springs, and Robert J. I~andon of Sche- nec.tady. SWIMMING TEAM . The swimming team is rqunding into form under the direction of Phil Mallen and Dr. MacComber. The candidates have regular practice every Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. No definite schedule has been made yet but several dates are under con- sideration. THE INTER-FRATERNITY CON- FERENCE. The Inter-Fraternity Conference is now meeting weekly to discuss the \rushing\ rules. Several of the fraternities have taken some action upon the by-laws but as yet nothing very defi.ni te has been decided. The conference has planned to have no dance after the Wesleyan game, but will hold one after the Princeton game. The same prices as before will prevail. EXHIBIT FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY. The Department of Chemistry is in re- c.eipt of some two dozen samples of mater- ials illustrating the cotton industry of the South. Professor Ellery secured the speci- mens and forwarded them to Schenectady fron1 N e\v Orleans where he is at the pres- ent tirr1e. ,.rhus, one may see the cotton as

1A THE CONCORDIENSIS. it is picked and after it has been freed from the seeds. All stages of de-seeding and seed ... hulling processes are shown. Finally, the oil from the seeds, that is, the cotton-seed oil raw and re·fined, and the waste materials which, however, are used for fertilizer, cattle feed,. horse collars and so forth, may all be vie,ved in our chen1ical laboratory. ~\fhe cotton exhibit is only one of quite a nu1nber which have been acquired within two or three years. The Bethlehem Steel Cornpany, the Aluminum Company of America, the Diamond Match Con1pany, the Standard Oil Company, the Barber Asphalt Company, as well as rubber, cement and pav- ing concerns have all favored the department with illustrations of their processes and samples of their products. Apparently there is no difficulty in collecting specimens. 'I'here is, however, considerable lack of space for displaying them. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. Chirp the Eleventh This is a chirp about compulsion. There are numerous things about college which we are compelled to do, and which are the very bane of our existence. We have cre- ated an ideal of complete freedom from re- straint and any encroachment upon this meets with our entire disapproval. For instance, we have to attend classes and chapel; if absent V\Te have to have an excuse. If \Ve are freshmen we have to wear curious headgear; we cannot go to this place or that; we cannot wear canes or moustaches (opinions vary as to whether these are hardships) ; in short, it would seem as though our lives were not worth living, so many are the regulations put upon us by not only the faculty, but by the students themselves. The Innocent Bystander doubts whether there is a single student who, at some time or other has not soliloquised, \I came to college for an education. What do I care if other students have regulations compel-- ling n1e to wear a hat of this sort, or pre- venting me from sitting in a theater box if I am inclined to do so? They are students the same as I. A pretty thing it will be if they take upon themselves the right to cut hair if I fail to agree to the rules they ~ave laid down. Wherein does it make a differ- ence if they have been here a year or so ahead of me?\ That there is, however, a sound basis for such regulations is the Innocent Bystander's firm belief. College represents, in most cases, a transition. When a boy leaves hon1e for a four years' stay, th~ thought like- ly to be uppermost in his mind is that he will henceforth be under no restraint or au thor- ity. He considers that the time has con1e to kick his traces. l-Ienee the phenomen .. •n of boys who have been quite tractable at home, turning into gay young sports as soon as they reach college. College regulations of the right sort are wholeson1e, in that they show the student that all authority has not been removed from over his head. Were college regulations of no other value, this fact alone would justify their ex- istence. But, in addition, we must remem- ber that if we do not make regulations for ourselves (and enforce them) the faculty will n1ake them for us. At Oxford, attendance at class is optional. But also at Oxford, students must be -in their rooms at a speci- fied hour. No fresh1nan caps are worn at Oxford, but woe betide the man who leaves off his cape. Ren1ember, ye belligerents, that it is bet .. ter to make your own rules than to have the1n made for you. THE INNOCENT BYSTANDER. WILL AND WILL NOT. 'Tis moonlight on the n1eadows where they meet the water's edge, And the zephyrs soft are sighing through the willows o'er the sedge.

pel-- if nts if cut so for at ey . at es .. THE CONCORDIENSI'S. 15 :Thtlingling \vith the mellow moonlight, frag- rance, love, and pure delight Seek to charm me vvith caresses-· Ah, it seen1.s the angels' 11ight! But n1.y heart is drowned in darkness like unto the turbid water, For her father will not give her, will not give to rne his daughter. Ah, no more the sunrise wreathing all the world in gold from gray, Can have power to change the darkness of m.y night to dazzling day! Ah, no 11.1ore the sunset sickens with the thought of hope that dies ! A .. h, no more the mystic moonbeams mock the radiance of her eyes! Th-1ine she will not be, ah never ! Die my ardor ! I.,ove be still !· For n1y uncle failed to leave 1ne seven figures in his will. J. B. T. AN ADVENTURE . It was a cold, bleak, blizzardy day in the rniddle of February. The attractive Miss Dainty had just finished a tedious afternoon of shopping. With her arms filled with parcels she was gingerly picking her way across the snow-drifted street toward her waiting limousine on the opposite corner. She had scarcely started from the curb, hov1ever, when a sharp little snap sounded overhead and one of the high current elec- tric light wires, over-burdened with its weight of snow, fell sizzling to the street, wrapping itself snake-like about her slender shoulders. The unfortunate girl fell to the street stunned and would assuredly have died the horrible death of electrocution had not Eddy Flux, from the Union College elec- trical department, pushed his broad, manly shoulders through the fast gathering, excited cro\ivd. Hubbub, high pitched excitement and fruitless scurrying about characterized the actions of the helpless 1nen on the scene. But Eddy calmly, collectedly, cooly ad1ninistered the most aproved and up-to- date method of resuscitation. When the charming Miss Dainty became fully a'\vare of her surroundings she was nestled cornfortably in Eddy Flux's arms in a corner of the limousine speeding home- Vlard. Many a winter's evening after the incident found Eddy seated before the large fireplace in the library of the Dainty's home and needless to say, very close to him sat Miss Dainty herself. Naturally father Dainty settled several hundred \thou\ on Eddy and the two lovers became engaged. Miss Dainty retained no animosity for electricity after her terrible experience, how- ever, for after she became the happy Mrs. Eddy Flux some months later, she and her husband lived happily ever after in an elec.- tric flat where everything from cleaning to cooking was done electrically. There is a little n1.oral to be gleaned from this story of Eddy and Miss Dainty. He who is electrically informed gets away with the goods. What would you have done had you been in Eddy's place? Could you have saved the beautiful girl and copped the soft stuff? :b~ddy Flux \rill be at the Electrical Show in the E. E. Laboratory April 6th and 7th and he will show you just how he did it. You vvill learn the latest n1.ethod of resus- citating charming girls when they are shocked. . Eddy will have a pulmotor exhibit, too, and the Flux's electric flat with all its con- veniences will be reproduced from the vacuu1n cleaner to the nitrogen lamps. Little Eddy Current Flux's electric, railroad the 1nost complete in seven states west o£ Bos- ton, will be shown in the fullest detail. You will even be shown the X-Ray machine that Dr., Voltz used on little Eddy Current Flux when the foolish boy swallowed the lightn- ing arrester--and 1naybe you think a lightn- ing arrester isn't small enough to swallow. Come around April 6th and 7th with your friends and we will show vou. \'

16 'rHE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION :COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Sche;nectady, N. Y., as Second Class :Matter. EDITOR-IN -CHIEF H. ]. Delchamps, '1'5, Chi Psi Lodge ATHLETIC EDITOR Walter C. Baker, '15 Psi Up'Silon House LITERARY EDITOR. Edward R. Hughes, '15, 25 ·Glenwood Boulevard STAFF ARTIST Thomas P. Keating, '15, 322 Germania Avenue ASSOCIATE EDITORS R. E. Taylor, '16 N. A. Finch, '16 W. C. Loughlin, '16 A. M. Jacobs, '16 REPORTERS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Porter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz Karl E. Agan, '15, Business Manager Delta Upsilon House. Howard A. Glenn, Assistant Business Manager, Kappa Alpha Lodge. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street Schenectady, N. Y. (This issue of Concordiensis was edited by Richard E. Taylor '16.) THE CRISIS IN BASKETBALL. Thus far the Garnet team has borne up under an exceptionally heavy schedule with but a single defeat being tallied against it, and that by a college completely beyond our class, and by only a very narrow n1ar- gin. We reversed the digits with the fast \Vest Point team in a neat twenty-one to twelve score. 'The noisy resistance of R. P. I. completely flattened out when we n1ore than trebled the score against her. The stiff Wesleyan game we won by a narrow n1argin but on a court which was not only foreign, but did not do ample justice to our players' ability. The season is now more than half over, but we still have several hard games in1mediately before us and vic- tory can con1.e to only one side. Though we must and shall avoid the fatal error of becoming too \cocky still we do not underestimate in the least the wonderful -vvork of Capt. Hough ton and his team. They have fought a good fight and we con- gratulate them for it. A little expression of our approvai will, we hope, help them in the strenuous work before them. It would be putting it too strongly to say that we fear Princeton. The Orange and Black is strong, but we have confidence in the Garnet and White to fight from start to finish with aU .the \pep\ that we know is in them. We shall follow our old motto and \meet the1n well, treat them well and if possible beat then1 well.\ \Vhatever be the outcome of the season, we 1nay know that at least we are not going backward. \tVhere so1ne colleges have light- ened their schedules, we have made ours heavier. Three n1ore games on the can1pus and one away from ho1ne and the perfect n1achine that has won so many glorious vic- tories for Old Union will be through forever. But we need not be discouraged. The second team has shown lots of real a hili ty and the squad is full of genuine basketball mater- ial. This is, however, next year's concern. Tomorrow night we play Wesleyan and Saturday night Princeton. Show the old team, boys, that you're with it every minute and it will not disappoint you. ---.,..._ YOUR PAPER. If you were to ask the average student of I.

ral . lC- do . lll TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS. 17 lJ nion College who publishes the Concor- diensis, he would probably answer: \0 a bunch of fellows they call the Con- cordy board.\ Nine ti1nes out of ten, he would entirely overlook the statement printed boldly on the front cover : \The Concordiensis pub- lished weekly by the STUDENTS of Union CoHege.\ That does not say anything about the \board'' whose names are incon- spicuously. tucked away in a small corner of the center of the magazine, and we would like to ask you here and now which is the more itnportant-to have your name in big type on the front cover where \all who run n1.ay read''--or hidden away where you have to look haH way through the paper to find it and then stand a big chance of overlooking it? It is necessary for the paper to have some official head, but that head must not be a swelled one from having to run the paper bv itself. Ji\\our hundred minds are better ., than twelve or fifteen. Every day lots of genuine humor and good jokes go to waste because there is no official Concordy man around to catch them hot off the bat. .Now let this fact be clearly understood that the legend on the front cover is no \phoney dope,\ but means just what it says. The Concordy is YOUR paper. If you have any stories, jokes, poems, etc., put them in and see how you look in print. If you run across an interesting bit of news, give it to your churn who is trying out .for a position on the board and thus enable him to get in an extra \scoop\ to his credit. There are lots of you engineers 'vho CAN draw. Good sketches, humorous or otherwise, can al- lnost invariably be used and are always ap- preciated. Rem,ember that the Concordy is a great advertiser for Union and you can n1ake it as good or as poor as you wish. Our humor- ous issue, the \Lost\ number, is coming soon and we want your co-operation then and at ail times. Step up, fellows, and lend a hand. \V e do the routine work, but the Concordy is at all times ·y·ouRS ! A PLEA FOR UNION'S TRE.ES. \Vhen we look down the spacious tree- arched avenues of Union's can1.pus, we feel an inward sense of gratitude to the far-see- ing mind which planned and planted them there. They add a dignity and prestige to the coilege which no amount of marble or bronze could give. They harmonize perfect- ly vvith our surroundings and in so doing typify the spirit of concord from which this college derives its name. The last few years have seen a rapid thin- ning of the trees on the campus, Fortun- ately this has occurred mostly among the natural growth, though certain of the plant- ed trees begin to sho,v signs of deteriora- tion. It does not take a close observer to discover the loss. Most of the fine old pines are already gone and those that are left are soon to follo\v. A few more years at this rate will witness an almost complete de- struction of the natural forest on the can1pus. Already the good work of setting ne\v trees has began and the in1provement is manifold. It should not stop here. New trees both evergreen and deciduous should be set in to replace those removed from the groves. \V e bave a large area on the N ott Street side of the can1pus which would be greatly i r I • r I. ! ~·

l I I l I ! I i I ! ! t l .· ! . 1 18 'ri-IE CONCORDIENSIS. beautified by a few hundred judiciously set elms,. oaks and maples. THE DREAMER. The bright sun of early May shone daz ... zlingly on the white stuccoed old n1anor house of Holly Hill. Beyond sloped a green lawn to the clear blue waters of the Poto- mac where a score of white sails flitted to and fro in the spring breeze. As I rode up, I caught a glitnpse of the white-haired old occupant among the roses in the garden. A negro servant took my horse and I went The expense would be slight and we c~n best show our appreciation for what pagt generations have done for us by placing ourselves in the same relation to future generations. The sooner we begin the good work, the sooner we can enjoy seeing it progress. JOHN HOWARD PAYNE.· Within those grey old walls that stand A n1onu.ment to Time ()nee· trob bed a poet heart that beat In faultless rhyme. Beneath those tow'ring trees that shade The gentle brook below Far sweeter than its purling note His song did flow. He wandered long in many lands- It was his lot to roam,- That passion might infuse the thetne, HSweet Hon1e; Sweet Home.\ Thy son of song, 0 Union sleeps Beside a foreign sea; \V ere it not better he should rest At home with thee? That thou shouldst raise beside the brook J\. mound and plant with flowers \V-here mating birds may sing \Sweet Home'\ In summer hours ? \Jiome Home, Svveet Home,\ the hon1eless sang- All space the sad song thrills, And Time wiJI die beside Payne's dust, Before it stills. Mac Gregor. imtnediately into the garden to seek my friend. The old major turned at the sound of n1y steps and advanced slowly to tneet 111e, a great bunch of carefully chosen white roses in his hand. It had been a full year since I had last seen him, yet he greeted me a.s though continuing a conversation of yesterday: \W elco1ne, friend, I al-w-ays drean1 of you when the roses are in bloon1. They are more beautiful this year than ever before. I think it is nearly morning_ and I shall_ soon awake.\ Major 11oore had entered the Confeder- ate Army at the outbreak of the Civil War a fresh-cheeked youth of twenty- two. l-Ie left behind him as fair and sweet a bride as Old I-Iatnpton had ever seen, at her father's home up in the foothil1s of the Blue Ridge. The young soldier served with brilliancy and distinction and rose rapidly in rank. Towards the end of the war, one of those ghoulish guerilla raids swept down from the n1ountains and devastated the country about OJd Hampton. Cattle were driven off, buildings plundered and burned and people slain. The young major was de- tached to operate against the lawless gang but the raiders were gone to the mountains before his force could reach the harried sec- tion. It was the Major himself who first found the body of his bride brutally mur- dered in the little orchard behind the house. His sensitive, passionate nature seemed to have been completely unstrung by the dis- aster and for months he hovered between life and death in a violent brain-fever. At length the vigor of youth was victorious and

daz ... to up, old A my of 0111. I lie as ge. nd ns s- THE CONCORDIENSIS. 19 he gradually teturned to physical health, but was constantly obsessed with th.e dom- inant idea that it wa$ all a bad drean1 and that he would son1~e day awake to things as they were before the fatal raid. At first he v,rotlld rave madly by spells, clutcbi ng at solid objects or seizing hold of frieod.s and servants in a frantic effort to wake J.Timself from the dreadful nightmare. As he grew older, he became n1ore meditative; tlle hor- ror of his dreatn less real; he conjured up in his mind a fair picture of his home-coming with his young bride waiting and waving to hitn. Of late he had begun to speak of his dream as nearing its close when he ·would be mustered out and return home. Then he vv-ould gather a bunch of roses and ride out to Molly's father's home i11 th,~ afternoon and bring her back to Holly I-Ii 11 the next morning. '''Yes it is nearly morning now,\ be said. \''rhe war is over and I shall return t(), Mo-lly --sweet girl. She'll be waiting on the porch for me I know.\ 'rhat afternoon he told me his whole drean1; the horrors he dwelt ttpon with a frenzy I had not known in b.im for twenty years and I feared he would g() mad again. Then he became gentler. A sudden change came over him. \She is vvaiting now,\ he said. \It is nearly sunset and I must go. Come with me, friend, your horse is still fresh for the ride. I will gather a few more roses and then we will sta:rt.\ So insistent, so pleading was his aititude that to hun1or him I started for the stables, ·thinking that a little ride in the cool ()£ the evening \'Nottld do hin1 good after t:he ex- citenlent of the afternoon. In a few minutes we were cantering gaily westward, his white hair streaming in the gentle breeze, his white roses bobbing jauntily across the saddle. As we mounted the crest of a comn1anding hill we both drew rein to survey the gorgeous sunset and the fair spring landscape. The old major pointed out with tren1bling finger f.a1uiliar spots. '•There is her home,\ said he. \1-~ook ! look, she is there waving to me now!\ I looked. A young girl had appeared on the porch and was waving to someone far down in the valley. The old 1naj or stood in his stirrups and vvaYed his roses. A strange ne'v light shone in his eyes. A boyish laugh broke from his lips. \A vvake, a wake at last!\ he cried and set spurs to his horse. I overtook him with difficulty in a quarter n1:ile and seized his rein and turned to search his face. He was stniling; he still held his roses tightly. He swayed in his saddle and I caught him. He laughed light- ly again and his eyes closed. His lips moved slightly: \Awake at last-. thank God-awake!\ OF CLASSICAL INTEREST. 1'he following is an ingenious Latin rebus in the form of an inscription on a tomb: 0 QtJID TUA TE BE BIS BIA ABIT RA RA RA ES ET IN RAM RAM RAM II. The four syllables in the first line are over, in Latin \super the four in the second line. \RA\ repeated thrice, Latin \ter is \terra.\ ES, ET, IN are common Latin words. \RAl\-1 thrice times is \ter ram\ and \I\ tvdce, in Latin \bis is \ibis.\ Hence the Latin: \0 superbe, Quid superbis? tua superbia te superabit. Terra es et in terram ibis.\ Translated gives us: \0 proud man, why art thou proud? Thy pride will overcon1e thee. Earth thou art and into earth thou shalt return.\ HE BIT. \l(uppy\: \I see the Gertnans have taken Lodz.\ Fritz: \Loads of what?\

20 THE CONCORDIENSIS. NOT SO SLOW. Dr. Stoller : \Yes sir, there isn't a thing in the petrified forests of Arizona that isn't completely turned to stone. There's even a petrified Indian there in the act of shooting a bird and the arrow is just where it was in mid-air when the petrification took place, thousands of years ago.\ Smart Soph: \Pretty fishy, Stoll; the law of gravitation would have brought the ar- row to the ground.'' Dr. Stoller: \My boy, the law of gravi- tation was petrified too.\ AS IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN. H offy (in psychology) : There are mach- ines for accurately measuring the time it takes a man to get an idea through his head. Jake: Aha, interesting. What are they like? Hoffy: In your case an 8-day clock would do. ? When the champion swimmer, Phil Mallen, From the drawing prof. emptied ten gallon Of the pool where he fell He scarcely could tell Which was the pool and which, Callan. \V e publish Concordy at cost So delinquents will please \con1e acrost\ If we don't have the tissue Before the next issue Your Concordy is going to be \Lost.\ REWARD OF VIRTUE. Father: George did you cut that tree down? Son: I did. Father: Then get to work and cut it up! Bone: Doc Mac says I'll have to have an operation. Foreign substance on the brain. Phil: An idea, by Heck! liashka: \Yir tnun ta Nippon mur ono.\ Jinka: \Yer ahnit, ertost ibone.\ (This is considered a very good joke in Japan.) Professor (who is still lecturing when cfass gets up to go out) : ''Hold on a minute gentlemen; I have a few more pearls to cast.\ Tute: \Do any of you recall any modern characters which remind you of L' Allegro and II Penseroso.\ Tutee: \Happy Hooligan and Gloomy Gus. \-Exchange. It is said that Washington though a truthful man claimed to have thrown a dol- lar across the Rappahannock River, an enormous distance, as it appears to modern t-vvirlers. 1\'his shows that a dollar went further then than nowadays. HEARD FROM THE HILL(S). ''Gairnit? What th' blazes is thet?\ \Thet? Why it's gen'raly th' yea:r book th' junior class at Union gits aout.\ \'Gen'raly'? v\lhat is it th' rest part uv th' time? What's it goin' tew be this here time?\ \Th' board sez it's gain' t' be a jim-hicky, but I mistrust they're jest whistlin' t' keep their sperits up, like th' settin' hen thet wuz jest stairtin' in on her fifth week uv settin' on one wooden aig. I've ben give t\ under-

tree it an . . 111 to a an ern ent th' uv ep uz THE CONCO·RDIENSIS. 21 stan' an' I low I got it middlin' straight- thet with th' amaount uv copy, picturs, yarns, an' sech like C!-n' so forth thet's ben handed in so fur it'll take abaout seventeen uv then1 Gairni ts one side uv th' other to cast a half way ree-spectable shadder in strong sunlight not tew speak uv on th' first of JYiay when it's calkerlated t' cum aout. An' haow them fellers be a-stewin' fer money! Say, I went araound t' one uv their n1eetings tother day. There set th' biznis manager I gathered frum th' looks uv his forehid. He sure did look all-fired worried -· forhid looked ez though somebody bed struck a back furrer acrost th' middle uv it an' plaowed 'bout twenty times araound! He wuz talkin' tew a pair uv long laigs that wuz supported at their futher end on a table 'long side uv a ramshackle ~ype­ writer, I guess 'twas-looked like a bobby- fied 4-decker pianner. I lowed th' tother end uv them. laigs wuz attached tew th' voice thet answered tew th' name uv Joe aout uv a claoud uv th' blamedest rankest carpit-rag .smoke thet ever attacked 1ny owl factry narves. Th' biznis manager sed abaout ez cheer- ful an' soul-warmin' ez a groan in the bury- in' ground at midnight: \We could put aout a 500 pager Joe if we wuz a mind tew print our bills thet' s co min' due.' Then Laigs kinder stirred a bit and drawl- ed complacent-like thet they hed a purty durned good bunch uv fellers an' he lowed they'd come araound alright. \Tenny-rate sez he, \while they's life they's hope.\ But I opine it would have been more prop- er if he;d sed: ''Let's hope they show sum signs uv life !\ IN JACKSON'S GARDEN. Sometime, I know not how or when, 'Tho' it was long ago, There came a valley through the hill And there a brook did flow. A steep bank rose on either side, A n1eadow lay between, \Vhere tree and shrub and b1ade and fern lVlade fair the sylvan scene. :One side there bubbled up a spring Whence ran a tiny riH To join her larger sister brook In dancing down th.e hill. And -vvhen they found a sheltered glade 1'hey dallied for a while; They marveled tnuch at heaven's blue, And at the sunshine's smile. They loitered round .a root or two And round a rock they played Then laughing o'er the pebbles sped And hid within the shade. Betime a muse beside the spring Sang softly in the vale \\Thile roses sent their shallops down And lilies spread their sail. At last came learning to the hill And there her temple built; But I a truant to n1y task List to the muse's lilt. 0 sweet the song sb.e sings to me, Of n1aidens 'witching fair, Of magic kingdoms o'er the sea, And castles in the air. I linger 'till the stars come out To scatter pearls around; 'Tis then I gather up my book~ And leave en chan ted ground. 0 Union wouldst thou n1ake me wise, And wouldst thou have me great Then close the spring and stop the brook And lock the garden gate.

22 'fFIE CONCORDIENSIS. ELE.CTRIC 'TRIX. Mahaney sighed with conscious pride and, interviewed, grew bigger, then calmly spat upon the mat with acu1n·en and vigor. \'Tis true,\ said he, \there's goin' to be, or I'm :a stale Nabisco, a 'lectric show that beats the blow that's on in San Francisco. We've got son1e ergs that Dr. Berg's preserved in oil of iggle that look so real you'd think they'd squeal and squirm and dance and wiggle. There's ohms and volts that Toepler Holtz made out of ions static, but found no use for static juice so stored them in his attic. Professor Lyons has drawn some ions exact in form and features; they look like toads, eat ether nodes and are such funny crea- tures. Fresh eggs we'll poach beyond re- proach on ice-Berg stoves and heaters; we'H whip your cream with frozen steam, beat rugs -vvith heatless beaters. The show wiB be by Berg and ME and beats a trip to heaven, so save your tin and happen in on April six and seven.\ URBANITY. · Of course it was all very gay. You can imagine the scintillation of the fountain and the aureoles cast by the table lamps. The rr1an who invented pink table lamps was a genius. Let him now proceed to abolish daylight-n1orning-glories bloom rarely. Probably you know the bizarre effect of a bright spot-light cast upon a space already brilliantly lighted. Over the quadrangle de- voted to dancing played such a light, and throtJ.gh it flitted the patrons and patronesses of the cabaret-1nonstrous moths circling about the-but you are acquainted with the moth-candle pheno~nenon already. Everyone V\ras lapped in soft Irvingberlin- ian; son1e were lapping in M u1n, 1904-a prickly vintage. The pizzicato of sparkling Burgundy n1ingled \Vith the obligato of Scotch-and-soda, and above soared a cadenza of Pomn1ery. (This is easy-apply any glossary of n1usical tern1s to a wine-list and you get the effect.) Flappers and little creatures! How to de- scribe then1 in their amazing grotesquerie is beyond the pen of an unready writer. The oddest, maddest costumes that a mad odd age can evolve; fantastic combinations of ribbon, puff, and furbelow-all draped and wound and bound about such dainty W at- teau figures-miraculously svelte, sacchar- inely rounded. In fact there were present the derniers cris in sylphs. Let the rhymes- ter sing of Babylon and Nineveh-Babylon never had a Joan Sawyer nor Nineveh a Hepburn Wislon. A young rnan recently abstracted fron1 a ,modish haberdasher's leaflet confronted an older n1an across a table at one corner of the room. The older man wore one of those nondescript gartnents with large side pock- ets, midway between a frock coat and a cuta- way-that kind of coat which is affected by Republican farmers on election day and hy Gern1an singing teachers any old time. a bout the old ·gentlenlan's neck was a low ~collar of celluloid ·and a black string tie. His face was rubicund-the red of harvest fields in sun and wind rather than the bibul- ous flush of n1iddle-aged clubmen. fie was ·drinking stout-an unusual drink for the Cafe Hilarity. You 1nay be sure he paid forty cents for his nip since there is a tax not only on what you drink but on what y()u shall drink at dancing teas. \Yes lJncle Joshua,\ said the young man, nt.trsi.ng carefulJy the crease in his ilnmacul- ate trousers as he crossed his legs, \here you -find all the excitement of the metropolis- what is known in the provinces as 'life.' Yor instance, at that table is Helene Dill, the star of the Gayety. She's always here in the afternoons 'vith that fellow.\ At this juncture he bowed suavely in the general direction of the lady whotn he call- ed Helene. She, who knew the young man not at all and vvho had certainly never seen ? ·'·

de- . . 1s The odd of and Nat- a 111 a an of and me. low tie. a hat f e.' . 1ll ? ... THE CONCORDIENSIS. 23 the wings of the Gayety from behind, bowed back graciously and the incident was closed --but of course there were advantages on either side--· the young man was good look- ing, and her escort needed a touch of the spur. Uncle Joshua, too, was impressed. Such interludes are harmless. Across the room near the entrance sat another young gentleman with another elder 1nan beside him. 1'he elder man wore a Princ.e Albert, a white linen bow tie and Lord Dundrearies. Uncle Joshua's companion soon noticed the second couple. He leaned across the table impressively. \tJncle Joshua,\ he said, \don't look now but -vvhen you get a chance look at that young guy down by the door with the pur- ple tie- sitting beside the old gent. That's Stanislas Novatny, the famous young Rus- sian violinist. trhe old fellow with him 1 s his father. He's an imperial grand duke or something back in Russia and the young guy always makes him carry his fiddle for him. You see that's the kind of people come here.\ After a_ pause Uncle Joshua turned and looked--looked long and earnestly, taking in the splendor of nobility and genius. His companion settled the bill and they rose to go. As they neared the door Uncle Joshua paused and approached the grand duke. \Ho do Ezra,\ he called. \How's it happen you're do,vn to the great city? Lem- me introduce you to my nevvy Saul-Gosh 1 \vhere is the boy?\ M.G. We are sorry to hear that Raymond Rol- lins, '16, of the Pyramid Club is suffering from an attack of heart failure. Monday afternoon he was taken to Ellis Hospital. The attack, -vvhich is not thought to be ser- ious_, was brought on by over-exertion at a recent convention held by his club. VERSUS DE RECENTE, LUDO PILAE CORBIANAE. In Rensselaeribus palaestris Pugnant magnis studiis Decetn bellicosi. Pro honore, pro gloria, Technalia, Concordia, Nituntur hi viri. Acies R. P. I. movet, Concordia quam pro hi bet, Gravis est is fragor. Cum pila scortea iacet, In oram corbis tunc labat. Troadi est dolor. 0, nihil praevalet Techna, Est robur in Concordia. Nobis est hie ludus, 0, clamate \Concordia! \Tictoria! Victoria!\ Nobis est triumphus. USE OF SILLIMAN HALL. (Communication.) Of late there has been a n1.arked abuse of the privileges offered by Silliman Hall. It seen1s needless to say that it is neither a gymnasium nor a club roon1. for the Inter- national Order of Incurable Rough Necks. It was given us to use and not abuse. One of the provisions under which we received it V\ras that there was to be no stnoking in it. Ho'v is this observed? The question needs no anS\i'\rer. Another thing is the way the 1nagazines are treated. If you dislike a certain maga- zine, don't show your disapproval of it by tearing it up. There may be others whose standards are not so high as yours who would like to read it. On the other hand if you do like a magazine, don't let your fond- ness for it make you carry it home. Son1e one this year has a special liking for \Life.\ This is a popular magazine and is read by nearly all the students. At present, it us-

24 'THE CONCORDIENSIS. ually disappears within the first hour or two of its being put on the table. '\fhis isn't a square deal to the other fellows to say the least. This article is not by the Silliman Hall authorities nor by the Innocent Bystander, but by one who would like to catch the gen- tleman in question in the act about once. It is directed against no one in particular but if the \jacket fits you, put it on!\ PREXY'S DA:TES. Next Sunday Dr. Richmond will speak to the Forum of the Socialist Party at 3 :00 P. ~1. in the Crescent Theater on \Our Po- litical Inheritance.\ The Forun1 is com- posed mostly of four or five hundred work- ing people. The paper will last about an hour, after which it will be open to discus- sion by the audience. March 1, '\'Prexy\ will attend the Albany Union AI umni Association dinner at the University Club at 7:30 P. M. March 7, he will preach at West Point. A long trip is projected for April but plans are not yet complete. A TALE OF OLDEN TYMES. Ye tale is told of days of olde When all ye lande was wette Of sporty stu de and Union Prex Yclept Eliphaelet. Y e goo.de olde manne was poking 'round In Middle Section South In search of cordial bottled smiles That wreathe ye toper's mouth. 'Twas here ye sportie William dwelt Who kept ye liquor handie To moisten drafts of lectures dry With draughts of beer and brandie. Now doughtie Nott with eagle eye And Willian1's disapproval, Did visit chests and lockers all, \tVith upset and removal. At last a box he spied with locks And hasps of brazen metal, \Vhich \Villiam said contained some bread, Some tea and one sn1all kettle. \T· ·· h . + d · ·1·1 \ · . en ope h~ up an we w1. sup, The wily prexy bade him; ., Perverted truth had caught the youth, A.nd falsehood had betrayed him. \Enuf for morals; to the beer,'' Cried Nott in tones ironic. \Pray tell tne, Williatn, what is here'!\ Said William, '''tis my tonic.\ \And does your strength,\ said N ott at length, \Increase from this stuff, Willy?\ \The keg I scarce could lift at first I toss with ease,\ said Billy. UNCENSORED ADVERTISING. Lost-One national honor and two million lives of subjects. Finder need not return as such is impossible. William II. Found-One nation that can't be bullied (Belgiun1). Also William II. Wanted-Less militarism and more hu- manity. Apply Common people of Europe. For Sale- Several imperial dynasties of the highest order. Will be auctioned off any ti tne to the lowest bidder. Europe. To Rent-(Soon)-Several battered cas- tles and one devastated empire. Formerly property of Bill Hohenzollern. Europa, executrix of estate. Wanted-Would like to rent a small pin hole for self and family. Franz Joseph. Business For Sale-William and Joseph, militarists, are going to dissolve partner- ship. Business may be bought for almost nothing or less. l(ottery-N ations of Europe buy lottery tickets now ! A fine Turkey will go to the one holding the proper n urn her (of soldiers.) To Exchange-A lot of blue blood for a smaller quantity of the red variety. ., ' .,

h, '!'' hu- of cas- . p1n tery the a '\ ',I ~ ·.·; .. , J I '. '' ; ~ : ; : '. , I• '. .. . If 10u want anything from QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Dr.ug Store Just Telephone 1285 Anytime Hasty Messengers Deliver all Purchases Steefel Bro& ALBANY, N. Y. Price Isn't the Only Important Consideration Price is only important as its relation to quality. $3.00 would be cheap for a good seat at an opera but an awful high price to pay for a \movie.\ Steefel prices now are 25 % off - the qualities are of the \opera\ type-high caste, high class, cultured, refined.-Guaranteed. When we cut 25% off our prices we say good-bye to profits-the farewell isn't sad, however, because it sends out our stocks in a jiffy. Better not delay; this opportunity won't last much longer. Spring Display of Wall Paper is now ready at the Sun 5 & lOc Wall Paper Store Everything in Wall Paper Nothing Over 1 Oc Over Woolworth's. 'Phone 4454~J. 411 STATE STREET. Schenectady 81 E. Main St., Amsterdam 129-131 Glen St., Glens 'falls W.ATERS, Custom Tailor 15·6 · BARRETT STREET Imported and Domestic Woolens 15% Reduction to Students For samples and prices, see ROBERT N. LANDRETH College Hill, Phone 1915-J YOUNG MEN!· Step Into a Pair of Our SURE-FIT Shoes Here we picture two ot the newest lasts for young men who keep apace wlth the shoe fashions. Correct for college, school or bus·lness. Natty enough for dress wea.r. Values llke these are only possi-ble In a metropolitan 1!1 ~ o r e llke Patton & Hall's. PATTON & HALL 245 STATE ST. Below tile Brlqe.

More College News IN THE Read It Every Day GAZETTE 5 . FOR YOUR DEN · Beautiful College Pennants 5 Yale and Hardvard, .Each 9 in. x 24 in Princeton, Cornell, Michigan, Each 7 in. x 21 in. 4-PENN ANTS. SIZE 12x30-4 Any Leading Colleges of Your Selection All of our best quality, in their proper colors, with colored emblems. Either assortment, for limited time sent postpaid for 50 cents and five stamps to cover shipping costs. Write us for prices before placing orders for felt novelties of all kinds. The Gem City Novelty Co. 6237 Bittner St., Dayton, Ohio. Nott Terrace Home Bakery C. LOHEN, Prop. Fresh Pies, Buns, Rolls, Cake, Bread Daily. 'Phone 4258-J. N. K. McNEILL N·EWS ROOM Cigars and Tobacco, Ice Cream, Candies and Groceries. College Idols. 108 Nott Terrace Schenectady, N.Y. There is no Music Like Giocia' s Orchestra . 302 Washington Avenue, Albany, N. Y. Telephone. Ra! Ra! Ra! Juniors This is for you. One portrait, (the best you have ever had taken) and a print for your Class Book for One Dollar. See W. A. Hughes, Pyramid Club, Cot/ege Representative The Studio of Mabelle Primmer 241 STATE STREET Over Patton & Hall Schenectady's Leading Flower Shop 3Juliu.a Egtr ORCHID·S, ROSES AND VIOLETS 735 State Street ED, THE BARBER THE BARBER SHOP FOR UNION MEN Cor. State and Centre Sts., Over Douglass New Shoe Store Absolutely Sanitary. First Class Service. Ask the Man Who's been Here. The New Hygienic Lunch and Restaurant Most Sanitary Lunch Room in Schenectady Specialty-Reasonable Prices, Comfortable

:1 It ery ay . Y. a ·.r ' . .• best had t for : for lSS >'s Bellinger Paint Co. PAINT$, ·OJ'LS Dealers in all kinds of Wax P.oHshea 212 So. Centre St • A. R. Zita's Orchestra j~ ~ Walk-Over shoes will take --... .- you anywhere and back. LET YOUR NE.X'T PAIR BE Walk-Overs. : 407 State Street, Schenectady furnished music at Union College 1905 'o6, 'o7, 'o8, 'og, 'Io, ·1 1, '12 '13 & '14 Best Dance Music in the Wor·ld g~~·tt~~~l§!:::~e~ 48 ~!eBetterfor Concert Office and Res., 167 Hamilton St., Albany TILLY, The Barber We are the favored among the College Boys and solicit your trade. EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL JAMES F. BURNS Electrical Supplies. Study Lamps, Portables, Etc. 442 State Street Schenectady, N. Y. \UNION NATIONAL BANK'' 334 State Street Solicits Accounts of Students W. A. BULLIS Periodicals, Confectionery, Cigars, Cigar- ettes. All latest Desserts served at his fountain. . Catering to College and High School func- tions a specialty. Music furnished if desired. 135 NOTT ;TERRACE Bell 'Phone 1356-M. Suits Made to Order from $1·8 to $35. A.GARUCKY Custom Tailor for Ladies' and Gentlemen Sanitary Cleaning, Pressing, Altering and Re- pairing of Ladies' and Gents' Garments. 870 Eastern Ave., Bet. Wendell & Morris Aves. Cigars Ice Cream Soda St. Regis Pharmacy, 600 Union St. CHAS R. CAREY Prescriptions Accurately Compounded Toilet Articles HOME MADE CANDIES N.H. Weaver CIGARS CIGARETTES 130 NOTT TERRACE N.M.READ PUBLIC STENOGRAPHER Room 7 4 Parker Building. Special Rates to Students Telephone 620- W LENS GRINDING A SPECIALTY 0. D. Eveleigh OPTOMETRIST 426 State Street Eyea Tested and GlAIII.el Fitted THE ROLLINSON STUDIO Quality Photography \Watch the Show Case\ RINDFLEISCH'S Artistic Parisian Dye Works 116 Jay Street.

II \1 d u ll I( ·' I l I I l~ti ~· @ I Pj:j I JiP ' J ''Bull\ Durham an International Favorite Smokers oE experience and discrimination the world over obtain year-' round, daily enjoyment from \Bull Durham tobacco. Men prominent in the social, business and public Hfe of ma-ny nations find supreme tobacco sat- isfaction in the deliciously fresh, mild cigarettes of unique savor they roll for th.emselves, to their individual liking, from this wonderfully pure, mellow tobacco. Their dis- tinguished example has made it correct, smart, fashionable ''R II Y 0 ,, · · to o our wn upon every occasion. GENUINE 46 BUL( DURHAM SMOKING TOBACCO There is no purer, milder tobacco in the world than \Bull'' D\Q·rham- none other with such a sweet, mellow, icresistible fragrance. This rare, balmy aroma is as delicate and elusive as it is distinctive and pleasing, and can only be retained and enjoyed i·n the fresh- rolled cigarette. \Bull\ Durham hand -made cigarettes afford wholesome en- joyment and lasting satisfaction to more millions of men than all other high-grade smoking tobac- c.os combined. FREE An J,~Iustrated Booklet, t . showing correct ~~~ 1 way to \RollY our ~::.a ~ Own'' Cigarettes, and a Package of cigarette papers will both be mailed /ree, to any address in United States on postal request. Address \Bull\ Durham, Dur- ham, N.C. Room 1400. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO. Ask for FREE pacltage of~~ paper•,, with each Sc aack. lJ

;I '' ! ' I OF COURSE there is always a call for Dollars. It's true however that some of these caUs are most necessary. Save for t~be necessary ones In the T~he Schenectady Sav~ings Bank COR. STATE AND CLJ:NTON The Edison NOYES American Plan His Complete Works All Outside Rooms Rates $2.50 to $4.00 Special Meal Ticket, 8 meals for $5 The Gleason Book Co. Edwin Clute, Prop. The PURE FOOD Store :Schenectady, N. Y. 104 Jay Street Gleason Building ''On your way to the poat office\ The PURE FOOD Store 161 JAY ST~EET, SCHENECTADY, N.Y. THE OUTLET 140 JAY STREET, Opposite Van Curler Brokers and Jobbers of fine Custom Made Garments $10.95 for any Overcoat or Balmaca,an in the store Full Dress Suits For Rent Wally Girling Johnson and Murphy Shoes Kirkpatrick Shoes Room I & II, Middle Section South Colle~e Sweaters and Banners R. E. REEVES handles our line in Union Arthur 'Mfg Co. Lowville, N.Y.

T~e Schenectady ,clothing Co. Clothing for College Men Stein-Bloch and Hickey-Freeman Suits and Overcoats cut to your measure $20 upward Full· Dress Acceessori'es Arrow Collars Oakes' Sweaters The newest in hats at all times The Schenectady Clotfling Co. 313·315 .State Street Telephone 91-W · The OAK Barber Shop 426 STATE STREET. M. F,. ALBE, Prop. CHARLES DERWIG FINE CUSTOM TAILORINII CLEANING AND PRESSING. 18 Barrett Street 'Phone 354-W. Between Union and Liberty Streets. JUST WRIGHT SHOES Red·uctions on Winter Weight Shoes worth your while. Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street P. J. KENNEY CUSTOM TAILOR Cleaning, Pressing and Repairing College Clothing a Specialty Cor. Jay & Liberty St. Schenectady, N. Y. ENDWELL Shoes The Manhattan Co. Our Goodyear Welt Shoes fit perfectly and are very stylish in appearance; besides they wear like iron. What more could you ask'? Endicott, Johnson & Co. 206 So. Centre Street Near State 142 STATE STREET A Complete Department Food Store. The Best in Everything for the Table at the lowest Cash Prices. J QUICK, ACTIVE SERVICE Schenectady's Leading Restaurant GLENN'S 422 State Street - ] l

Stoll's Ho/brauhaus 162 .. 64-66 Jay Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Will Serve Real German Meals at All Hours at Moderate Prices .. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT EVENINGS. Nicely Furnished Rooms by Day or Week. Telephone 1938. MAX NOWA, Prop. A unique German place, Catering to private parties in and out of the house. Mandeville, '17 Representative on, the Hill. H. J. Sch artz Tailoring Co. Snappiest Made ... to-Measure Clothing at less than \Ready-Made\ Prices. Dress Suits from $25 up. 9 Proctor's Arcade, Wedgeway Building. Tl'le Liberty Bell Adjustable Lamp A LAMP FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Representative on the Hill, Girling, '17. Hallbauer-Hardman Mfg. Co. 957 State Street. Telephone 1909-W Electric City Barber Shop EDWIN POSSON, Prop. Special Attention Given to Face and Scalp. 436 State Street, Schenectady, N. Y. Telephone Connections A. STOODLEY People's Baker 423 Union St. Schenectady, N. Y. _____ , ________ .....____._....._ __ _ C. A. Whelan & Co. Cigars and Tobacco 301 and 443 State St. Schenectady Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. Phone 4489. IN A HURRY HE ·IT RAINS OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS The Capitol District's Greatest Trunk & Leather Goods Store Buy baggage with the 5 year guarantee fi-\.WAY,s 177 Jay Street -~·- 110 No. Pearl St. Schenectady, N.Y. ~e~~.Ae\-( Albany, N ~ Y. REPAIRING SPALDING~S for nearly forty years-have been the ones to think out, and put on the market, things really new in sport. Are you posted on just what's new this year? A G S ld • & B 126-128 Nassau Street . . pa tng YOS. 520 5th Ave., New York Send for Catalogue S. A. Hamilton GROCER 841 Union St. Phone 2540 MY STOCK OF Fall Hats and Haberdashery is now complete.. An inspection is solicited. JOSEPH NUSBAUM, 336 State Street, Gazette Building 2Oth Century Lunch CHOCOLATE PIE WITH WHIPPED CREAM, OUR SPECIALTY 154 Jay Strt'et, ''On your way to the Post Office\

SUITS FOR COLLEGE MEN ~'M*i F*UM* I' 1 '' AM A *'UiM ww:w j I Made by Hart, Schaffner & Marx = iH 5 !!= rz A AI ¥5 &PH&& F 5 Double Breasted Models, Single Breasted Straight Front Stylea, and the newest ideas in soft roll, two and three button coats are all here-all made for us by those wonderful Hart, Schaffner & Marx tailors. College men like these clothes better than any other clothes made and the men of Union are showing us that they do. We are glad to show them to you any day that you can give us time. 240-244 STATE STREET SCHENECTADY Schenectady ~ Art Press - I j ' I , . I I '; - : . ,, '

