\ .., ·--~~~· . e . . ·.c·ONCORDIENSIS VOLUME 39 NUMBER 1 WELCOME ENTERING CLASS SEPTEMBER 20, 1915 . PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY = . :II

UNION UNIVERSI .. CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL. D .. Chancellor U'NION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses : 1. Ceur•e• leadlnc to the degree of A.. B. CI.,ASSICAI., CouRSJt A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CoURS! B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. 2. Cour•e leading to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-ScntNTn'IC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. 3. Cour•e leading to the degree o:f B. s. SciENTIFIC CouRs!- This course is based upon the study of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Cour•e leading to the degree o:f B. B. G!NERAI., ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the pro- fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGIN!UING CouRSE-This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. EL!CTRICAI., ENGIN!ERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 5. Cour•e• lea .. ng to graduate degree•. CouRsE LEADING TO DEGI~E or M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. L. V. Herrington Cou:as1t LltA,DING TO D~GR~! or M. S. E. E.~This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRSlt LltADING To D!GJU~It ot PH. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equ,ivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, · Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: W~I.,IS G. TucK£R, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PAKKU, J. NEWTON FIUO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years ; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses : Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $110. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $go.oo per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N., Y. ALFR!D B. Hu~STltD, Secretary, Schenectady' Leading Restaurant Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery G L E N N ' s Phone 2925- W 727 Nott Street Acroaa from College Gate 422 State Street Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate •, :·~ \ \.Q 1.', ~ ! ' & .f VOL. A.M. P.M. A.M. P.M. A.M. P.l\L A.M. P.l\f.. P.1L 3.30 P.: So ph ant buE will re] the l(a '17 at t1

\ \.Q ~ & f The Concordiensis VOL. 39 SEPTEMBER 20, 1915 NO.1 ACTIVITIES OF THE WEEK. MONDAY (TODAY) A.M. THE CONCORDIENSIS appears. Freshman registration. P.M. Idol scraps. TUESDAY. A.M. Registration for three upper classes. P.M. Freshn1en n1eeting in the chapel at 2 o'clock. A.M. P.l\L A.M. P.l\f.. P.1L Idol scraps. WEDNESDAY. Registration for three upper classes continued. Idol scraps. THURSDAY. First chapel service conducted by Dr. Richmond. Schedule of classes for first semester begin. Idol scraps. FRIDAY. Salt and tomato scrap. Cane rush and idol scraps. Senior reception to freshmen in Silli- man I-I all at 8 o'clock. SATURDAY. 3.30 P.M. Football with St. Lawrence. Sophomores wishing to try out for assist- ant business manager of The Concordiensis will report early this week to Glenn '16 at the I( appa Alpha Lodge or to Mandeville '17 at the Psi Upsilon House. OPENING OF FOOTBALL SEASON. Last Year's Squad Back in Force--New Material. Only four men of Union's champion team that went through the season of 1914 unde- feated will be missing from the squad when TJnion takes the field against St. Lawrence this year on Saturday. A number of 'var- sity veterans, several men of last year's scrub, as well as a lot of promising freshman material ans~rered Coach Dawson's call for the first practice of the year last Monday. Among the veterans already or soon to be in harness are Captain Jenkins, Stoller, Gard-- ner, Rosecrans, Roof, Girling, Friday, Vro ... n1an, Mudge~ Moynihan, Travis and DuBois. With Roof, Girling, Rosecrans, Stoller; Mudge and Moynihan the backfield of last year remains intact with the exception o£ Jake Beaver at quarter. Mudge and Moyni-- han are working out in Jake's old position. It is too early to predict 'vho will fill it. With ] enkins, Gardner, Friday, Vroman and per- haps Travis or DuBois, the line could be 1nade up almost entirely of regulars of last year. But the freshn1an additions to the squad are promising, and every veteran will have to fight to hold his position. Several tnen come to Union with prep school repu- tations. Among those who have already re ... ported are Patterson, captain and full back last year at Pawling School; Goff, half back, also of Pawling; Moora, quarter and half back from l\1ount Clair High School, N e-vv

8 THE CONCORDIENSIS Jersey; and Bowman of Andover. \'Cal\ Bowman, 1918, brother of Bowman, 1919, has reported and is working at center. Morning as Virell as afternoon practice has been in order since last Monday. There has been no scrimmaging as yet, but two teams -vvill probably line up early this week. Signal practice, formation plays, dummy tackling, and falling on the ball have occupied the squad since the first day. Besides Coach Fred T. Dawson, who is in general charge of the fall work-out, Hart- ley Dewey '13, fortner football captain, and Stephen B. Story. '14, are coaching daily. Dewey, whose phenomenal drop kicking and broken field running were responsible for at least half a dozen victories during his col- lege career, is devoting his time to the back field and to drop kicking. Steve Story is working with the ends. \Bill\ Smith, a former Garnet star, is ex- pected back early, as well as other loyal Union alumni, to help drum the tea1n into shape. The schedule this year finds several new- comers to Union football. The Willian1s gan1e at Williamstown, on October 2, is of special interest because of the Purple's good record last season. Rhode Island State and Fordhan1 are the other new opponents. Relations -vvith N. Y. U., 'vhich were renevved last year, are continued. The Garnet plays N. Y. U. at New York on October 30th. Wesleyan, Ho- bart, and \iVorcester Tech are not on 1Jnion's list this season. The schedule follo\vs : Sept. 25--St. Lawrence at Schet:lectady. Oct. 2-Williams at· Williamstown. Oct. 9-Fordham at Schenectady. Oct. 16-Rhode Island State at Schenec- tady. Oct. 22-Stevens at Schenectady. Oct. 30-N. Y. U. at New York. Nov. 6-R. P. I. at Schenectady. Nov. 13-Hamilton at Clinton. NEW FACULTY MEMBERS. Two new faces will be in the faculty corps this year-Dr. Francis E. Fobes and Dr. R. D. IZlee1nan. Dr. Fobes comes as as- sistant professor of Greek and Dr. Kleeman as assistant professor of Physics. Dr. Fobes is a graduate of Oxford and has taught at Harvard for several years. He will teach English this year as well as Greek. Dr Kleeman is graduated from the U ni- versity of Adelaide, Australia; he took his degree at Cambridge, England, and worked there for several years with Sir J. J .. Thom- son, head of the Physics department at Cambridge. :Qx. Kleeman has made several important contributions to science, among which are \Structure of the Aton1\ and \Lavv of Gravitation as Effecting Mole- cules.\ Y. M. C. A. ACTIVITIES. General Secretary S. 13. Story of the Young 1\ti en's Christian Association and his helpers have been and are busy securing jobs for new men in college. They are find- ing it unusually difficult to locate such jobs as college men want and any assistance fron1 men in the college knowing of places where work in exchange for board can be secured -vvill be appreciated. An information bureau and list of board- ing and rooming places with maps of the city are available for use this 'veek in Silli..: n1an Hall. During the first two weeks of college the office hours of the general secretary will be frotn 11 to 12 :30 o'clock during the morn- ing-s and from 1 :30 to 3 :30 o'clock in the af- ~ ternoon. The office is located on the second floor of Silliman Hall. Remen1.ber to subscribe for The Concor- diensis. 1 Colle It i $100,~ treas1 then A pa erecti as the The 1 Colle Labo . sc1enc of th grout adop1 Th, late 1 band, class relati to th< FRE: In is st<: in tb o'cloc n1eml Mead S1nitl just · . lll so Th· every some· and s CR< All quest gymr at the are e: tain 1 . gtn a

' THE CONCORDIENSIS 9 BUTTERFIELD MEMORIAL. College to Receive $100,000 Bequest Soon. It is expected the B utter:field memorial of $100,000 will be paid over to the college treasurer within a few weeks, as soon as the necessary litigation has come to an end. A part of the money will be used for the erection of a science building, to be known as the Daniel Butterfield Memorial Building The new structure will be built on North College Lane to the east of the Electrical Laboratory. The architecture of the new science building will be in harmony with that of the· colleges and the gym nasi urn, the grounds and building committee having adopted that policy several years ago. The bequest of $100,000 was made by the late Mrs. Butterfield in memory of her hus- band, General Daniel Butterfield of the class of '63. The will was contested by relatives of Mrs. Butterfield but the bequest to the college was upheld by the court. FRESHMEN MEETING TOMORROW. In the calendar appearing on the first page is stated the freshmen meeting to be held in the chapel tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock. 'rhis meeting is in1portant and three n1embers of the Interfraternity Conference, Meade Brunet, Arnold Hooper and C. Newell S1ni th, will be present to explain to the n1en just vvhat the fraternity rushing rules are in so far as they apply to the freshmen. This occasion offers an opportunity for every freshman entering Union to learn something about the fraternities in Union and some of their relations to the college. CROSS COUNTRY BEGINS TODAY. All candidates for cross country are re- quested by Captain Newton to report at the gymnasium at 4:30 o'clock this afternoon or at the same hour any day this week. Men are expected to be out early to let the cap- tain know who they are. The tean1 will be- gin a regular program of work today. ' • , , • ' • • ~ 1. •I\ ' ~. ' 1 1, , \ 1. , THOMAS P. KEATING. Thomas P. Keating, Jr., a graduate of class of 1915, died at the Ellis Hospital at an early hour Friday morning, following an attempt at blood transfusion to save his life. Nearly two weeks before his death he was taken to the hospital to be opera ted on for appendicitis. 1\he doctors found the ap- pendix had become ruptured. Complica- tions set in and Thursday morning the doc- tors decided a blood transfusion might save him. Keating was the son of Thomas P. Keat- ing, Sr., of 322 Ger1nania A venue, Schenec- tady. He was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha. During his college career he was manager of the basketball team for two years, 1914 and 1915. For a year previous to his graduation he was staff artist of The Concordiensis and he did much valuable work for the Garnet in 1914 and in 1915. 'rhe funeral will be held this morning from the residence, 322 Germani a A venue, and from St. John's Church. ' '> \ , I .f • l \• ' ' ~ , • , 1 ° CONCORDY TALK. 'rhe advertising pages of the Concordy teJl us who among the merchants of this vicinity are the best friends of the College. Extra copies of The Corcordiensis \\vill be mailed to any address upon request of the business management. Morris P. Shaffer, '14, is business man- ager of the Columbia Spectator for the year 1915-16, and only a few weeks ago he was elected president of the Associated College Newspaper Publishers' organization, which is made up of thirty-nine colleges in the United States. The purpose of the organ- ization is to ilnprove conditions in the col- lege advertising field. Schaffer was busi- ness manager of the Concordy during his senior year in Union. Don't forget to subscribe to The Concor- diensis.

10 THE CONCORDIENSIS THE CONCORDIENSIS A Literary and News Weekly PubJi.shed by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE Entered at the Postoffice at Schene·ctady, N. Y., a.g Second Class 11atter. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR Nathaniel A. Finch, '16. LITERARY EDITOR Avro1n M. Jacobs, '16. STAFF ARTIST Al-wyn G. Levy, '18. ASSOCIATE EDITORS W. M. Gilbert, '17 D. F. Chapman, '17 F. W. Potter, '17 H. R. Knight, '17 Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. Howard A. Glenn, '16, Business Manager Subscription: $2.00 per year, payable in advance. Publication Office: Schenectady Art Press 206 So. Centre Street, Schenectady, N. Y. WELCOME, 1919. lVIembers of the class of 1919, we bid you V\relcolne. VV e are pleased that so many of you have seen fit to enter Union, and we congratulate you upon your choice. You have come into a comn1unity where there are men and facilities to educate you, develop you, where you will be understood and appreciated if you have the right stuff in you. You have come to a college rich in traditions and ideals. And in the name of those traditions and ideals, we invite you to become a part of us. You are due for experiences and sensa- tions entirely new. In a few weeks, after underclass disturbances have worn them- selves out, you will be introduced to anoth- er Union. You will then learn what signi- ficance attaches itself to the names of Eliphalet N ott, John Howard Payne, Fitz- h1lgh Ludlow, Captain Jackson, and the others. You will be schooled in the tradi- tions of the Gardens, the Idol, the Terrace Wall. These ate but names and places to you now, but you will soon discover why they have been singled out from the many to retnain in the n1inds and hearts of Union men. In a few days you yourselves will be doing and saying things, meeting men who will make a lasting impression upon you. Get into this atmosphere of Union with a vim_, for freshman days are transient, and early impressions survive. Be active workers for yourselves and for what you n1ay now call your college. 'rhere are activities for all of you. There are at~­ letics, debating, rnusic clubs, newspaper and Press Club work, Y. M. C. A., dramatic so- cieties, and so on. Become interested in some of these, but not in too many of thetn, for, after all, degrees are awarded on the basis of term marks rather than on that nf college honors. Find that activity for which you are best suited, and devote some of your spare time to it sincerely, always tnindful, however, that it is but a sidelight to the true purpose for which you are with us. Activities broaden a man, but regular attendance at class broadens one as well as assocaition with his fellows outside. For the first year you 'vill be asked to do many things ·vvhich may not be to your lik- ing. You will be asked to wear conspicuous and unbeeoming caps. You \vill be asked to refrain fron1 s1noking pipes and cigars on the campus, frotn sitting where you please at Proctor's, fron1 going to whatever res- taurant you please. If you consider these things foolish or tyrannical, remember that they have all been done before your tin1e and are part of the schen1e by which Union n1.en are made. You will be asked to sub- mit to upper-class authority, to follow a duly elected and authorized Terrace Council. Do so in good grace. You will be expected to live up to an Honor Systen1, to stand and uncover when Alma Mater is being sung and do countless other things which are at bottom, beneath the veneer of college spirit and custo1n, sensible and sobering. We shall tell you n1ore of these things in due ' \ ~ \I ·'· >j ./! ·d ! ·,_'1 . ;, tin1e, ( For tr trust, l must f You: ant or selves do not whotn you. uated, entire]· now w a n1on1 . fo: 1ng, best of that . lS our co and SOl sible n and . Sll Duri n1.ade 1 fore ar past 1 more. kept lc care or of natt in Uni yard oi be so · This on and be con aesthet nothin~ <. possibi: the con his par and de~ Let · uppetc: abusin~ Union

THE CONCORDIENSIS 11 tin1e, explaining the whys and wherefores. For the present you n1ust take them on trust, remembering that he who con1n1ands must first learn to obey. Your four years' stay here will be pleas- ant or not, profitable or not, as you your- selves make it. In your early enthusiasn1, do not lose sight of the ideals which those whotn you have left behind instilled into you. Do not think that when you grad- uated, from prep school days you laid aside entirely hotne influence. Be ashamed to do now what you vvere ashan1ed to do a year or a n1onth ago. Be respectfuL but not cring- ing, for you are as much Union men as the best of us. You have not progressed so far, that is all. \jV e hope you will like us and our college. Thousands before you have, and son1e of then1 were mighty fine and sen- sible men. Anyway, we bjd you a cordial and sincere welcome. TI-IE CAMPUS. During the su1n1ner the can1pus has been n1ade to look even n1ore beautiful than be- fore and those who have seen it for years past know it is being itnproved more and more. Like everything else it cannot be kept looking well without care is taken,- care on the part of the gardner, on the part of nature, and on the part of every student in Union. Union College campus is the yard of the Union man's home and it should be so treated by every man. This week the underclass scraps will be on and for the most part these scraps will be conducted on the campus. Fron1 the aesthetic standpoint it is possible to let nothing about the Hill suffer. This latter possibility can be made a reality only under the condition that every man in College does his part in guarding against disfiguration and destruction. Let the underclassman see to it that no uppetclassn1an has to reprimand him for abusing those things which go to make the Union College campus what it is. TO THE SENIORS. Seniors this year like seniors every year have n1any serious things to carefully con- sider and one of these matters should find their attention early in the year. The class of 1916 has been organized yearly for three years and will soon organize for another year. But it must also organize for the years to come. A year from now seniors will be alumni looking forward to returning for class re- unions. To get pleasure from class re- unions a definite organization is necessary. .A. senior will b e elected this fall to sit with the Graduate Council during the year. This particular n1an is the one on whom n1uch depends for the future of every senior in so far as his class reunions are con- cerned. 1\!Ir. Charles Waldron will be meeting the seniors soon to talk over this matter of class organization and the election of one of the n1en1bers to the Graduate Council organiza- tion. Members of the class should care- fully canvas the membership and be ready for an unbiased opinion in the form of a ballot. Tl-IE COACH ON FOOTBALL A football team, in order to be at its best, n1ust adhere strictly to the rules of training. EYery man on the squad, be he first, sec- ond, or third string man, 1n ust take the n1ost particular care not to break training; and, furthern1ore, he should insist that every other man on the squad does the san1e. A man should not think, just because he is a substitute or \scrub\, that he can do as he pleases about training. A scrub man may be called upon at any time to fil a position on the 'varsity; hence the necessity of being constantly physically fit. And again, in order to maintain a high tnorale, we expect every man on the squad to feel it his duty to his college to be in the best possible condi- tion at all times.

12 THE CONCORDIENSIS With the entire college backing up these principles, we may look forward to a sea- son of splendid work. FH.ED T. DAWSONr ON YOUR WAY. TO 1919. Freshn1en, you are very little And your bones are very brittle, But when you reach the senior's state You will be both proud and great, And then you will have learned to be Respectful with humility. But till you raech that state of knowledge You will surely run the college Which is the logical vocation Of every freshman in the nation. Soon will come the annual hurley-burley, melees, and other gentle manipulations of rival strong-arm squads, mixed with strategy that would give pause to the German War Office. To a brother Soph, Joe Beamish, 1_918, will be saying: \Ah they look big but they're a hunch of easy marks. They got no organization. We oughta bust those birds higher'n the wireless pole over by the electric lab.\ Joe Gish, 1.919, will be saying to his neighbor: \There's just one guy I want to get-that great big Soph with the yellow sweater that give me the straight-arm in the salt rush. I couldn't give him no argument then, but if I don't clean on him before the year's over my name ain't Joe Gish.\ Amos Arbuckle, 1917, from the side-lines will remark: \That Soph bunch always was a bunch of antelopes anyway. They can run faster'n Bob Duane used to could drive his car last year. Look at that big frosh pastin' Joe Beamish-. Ataboy-Go to it! Gee, I wisht I was in there now.\ A lordly senior will ren1ark: ''This'll be about the last year of the scraps. There's no more spirit in college anyway. Now back in 1913 when we were freshman-say-!\ Freshmen are really not to be regarded as a necessary evil, even if that is the sop- homoric point of view. Freshmen certainly do not regard themselves in that light, for they realize what a college would he without freshmen. They are perfectly sure that they are the greatest class in college; which we hope will be true, say, in 1.91.9. In lJ nion, they say, is strength. There is certainly more beauty on the campus every . passtng year. HAFIZ. PSI U TO REMODEL. Work will be started about N oven'lber 1 on extensive repairs and an addition to the Psi lJpsilon fraternity house. An addi- tion about forty feet by thirty feet will be built on the present billiard room on the east side of the house, the addition to be tvvo stories high. Partitions \rill be changed on the first floor so as to give a large dining room on the east side and the present din- ing room will be used for a billiard room. The door,vays opening fron1 the two par- lors into the hall vvill be made wider and the main staircase will be shifted from the front wall to the back vvall, thus doing awa v with considerable waste room. This ar- rangement of the first floor will lend itself well to entertaining. A large room will be made possible on the front of the second floor by the change of the staircase, and the addition will give two new roo1ns and increase the size of a third room. The bath room vvill be shifted to the vvest side of the house and the present bath room space will be used for a hall·way. The addition \\vill make possible three new roon1s on the third story, making a total of thir- teen instead of seven rooms as heretofore. The entire house will be redecorated, and the exterior will receive considerable atten- tion. The repairs and addition will cost be- t\veen $8,000 and $10,000. :. l , r . ·' i ' ' D Phil om; For a been re by tean lege. I I-I a milt< York U Cornell Garnet. The . . tng ts s cieties, Membe1 in colle~ later in for whi $50 for er argu1 speaker; \Vhile I bate is the' var valuabh the try- team ta faculty ; It apJ step to tnember the Ade· tions ar tablishe~ The riv friendly to\vard particuL or the o1 and thu! 1neeting board ir De bat activity It is to 1 her both

; ' ' THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 DE-BATING INFORMATION. Philomathean and Adelphic to Resume Meetings So·on . For a great many years Union College has been represented in intercollegiate debates by teams which reflected credit on the col- lege. In the past few years they have met I-Iamilton, Colgate, St. Lawrence, New York University, and the present series with Cornell stands three to two in favor of the Garnet. The machinery of intercollegiate debat- ing is simple. There are two debating so- cieties, the Philomathean and the Adelphic. Membership in these is open to any student in college. These hold weekly debates and later in the year, an Allison-Foote debate, for which there are two endowed prizes.: $50 for the society presenting the strong- er argument and $50 for the best individual speaker, irrespective of society affiliation. \Vhile participation in an Allison- Foot de- bate is not prerequisite for membership on the' varsity team, it is counted, however, as valuable experience. Later in the season the try-out for positions on the 'varsity team take place before a committee of the faculty and the season is on in full sway. It appears, therefore, as though the first step toward intercollegiate debating is tnembership in either the Philomathean or the Adelphic Society. Both of these institu- tions are very old, Philomathean being es- tablished in 1793, Adelphic two years later. The rivalry between the two societies is friendly, and later they join their efforts to\vard intercol1egiate victory. Freshmen particularly are invited to affiliate with one or the other, accordingly as inclination goes, and thus get into the work. Notices of the tneetings will be posted on the bulletin board in a few days. Debating is an exceedingly fascinating activity and much good may result from it. It is to be hoped that a representative nuln- ber both of new men and old \vill aim to uphold Union's reputation in forensic cir- cles this year. PERSONAL. Dr. and ~Irs. Rich1nond spent the sum- n1er in East Aurora, Dr. Richmond's old hom.e, and in North East Harbor. Dean Ripton will live on the campus this year, occupying the house in which Prof. V\T. C. Taylor formerly lived. Pro£. Taylor will ~ive at 38 ·union Avenue, the Dean's former home. Don K. Hutchens '13 · is entering Physi ... cians' College in Columbia University this fall as is also J. T. Howell, Jr., '14. G. V. VVood '15 is employed with the Taylor- \tVharton Iron and Steel Company at Highbridge, N. J. Lynde D. Hokerk '15 is in the employ ot the Brooklyn Title Guarantee and Trust Com.pany. Ernest B. Houghton '15 is chemistry and coaching athletics Institute. teaching at Peddy Raymond Caldwell, N. Blodgett '15 is teaching at J. 1). l\.. Starbuck '15 and P. C. Cleveland '] 5 are teaching at Irving-on-the-Hudson. II. D. Godfrey '15 is now in the schools of the Standard Oil Company of New York. S. M. Cavert '10 who graduated fron1 Union Theological Seminary last June has accepted an assistant professorship in Theo- logy at that sen1inary for the coming year. It is reported that Jimmie Butler, cap- tain of the track tea1n, will not be back this year. He is now working near Rochester in the employ of the state. It is to be hoped Butler will change his n1ind and come back to lead his team. rrhis issue of 'The Concordiensis was edited by the Business Manager.

r -·- 14 THE CONCORDIENSIS NEW MET'HOD OF STUDYING \ON FOOT'' AT COLUMBIA. Petition Drawn up for Study Room with Gym Equipment. I Students in Philosophy J2, a course in DO YOU BELIEVE IN SIGNS? The Concordiensis disclahns any respon- sibility for the \Drive slow'' signs which decorated the campus last week. * * * elementary psychology, were informed last \No horses allov.red on this road,\ greets \veek that studying could be facilitated by the eye as we approach the library, Aha, the means of some form of motor action. In order to test this several members of the class tried studying while walking about the library. At the start only two men were in the little advanced group, but after half an hour there were nearer a dozen. Some stud- ied psychology, some history, one economics and one practiced the calisthenic exercises taught by the gymnasium department. The new system worked so well that a petition has been started for a new room for studying. The room is to be equipped with all modern gymnasium appliances that the studying may be carried on more success- fully. Chest weights with stands for books seem to be the most popular form of study- ing-made-easy machines. When asked what the object of the parade was-for it took on the dimensions of an I. W. \ V. denJ.on- stration-the men answered in chorus that it was a trial ot the Pitkin method of motor facilitation. Friends of vValter Tiedemann '13 will be pleased to learn of his recent n1arriage to Miss Edna Kornfort of Albany. Tiedemann is a member of Phi Gam1na Delta and an ex-Terrace Councilman. He is at present located in Cincinnati, 0. freshmen! at last the powers that be have discovered vvhat you tuck under your arn1s as you approach the library. After this, do your own translating. ELECTIVE COMPULSORY EXERCISE Princeton freshmen are allowed a wider choice than ever before in the spring sched- ule of compulsory exercise. Daily classes in swimming, life-saving, track, baseball, ro-vving, tennis, football, golf, and soccer have been organized under the auspices of the varsity coaches. This system, in which every student takes some form of exercise, is almost an ideal one. Of course, it is pos- sible only because of the size of Princeton's athletic equipment. TWO SEMESTERS. 1\his year we begin the two semester sys- tern and the old three term system is no 1nore. Final exan1.inations for the first semester will begin January 26, 1916, and the se1nester will end February 5. Classes in the second sen1ester 'i\:ill begin February 8, registration being the day previous. Subscr·ibe to The Concordiensis t J'





14 'TI-IE CONCORDIENSIS NEW 1iETHOD OF STUDYING \ON FOOT\ AT COLUMBIA. Petition Drawn up for Study Room with Gym Equipment. Students in Philosophy J2, . a course 111 <·len1entary psychology, \Yere inforn1ed last \Vcek that studying could be facilitated b:,~ the n1eans of son1c forn1 of n1otor action. In order to test this several men1bers of the class trierl studying \Yhile \valking about the library. At the start only tv\TO 111cn \Ycre in the little adv·anced group, but after half an hour there \Vere nearer a dozen. Son1e stud- ied psychology. sotne history, one econon1ics and one practiced the calisthenic exercises taught by the gyn1nasi un1 departn1cnt. T'he nevv systen1 ,,·orkecl so \\'ell that a petition has been started for a ne\Y roon1 for studying. 1'he roon1 is to be equipped \Ytth <:11 n1odern gymnasiun1 appliances th~t the studying tnay be carried on n1ore success- fully. Chest \Yeights \vith stands for hooks seen1 to be the n1ost popular fon11 of study- ing-n1ade-easy n1achines. \Vhen asked \vhat the object of the parade ,,·as-for it took on the di nH?nsions of an I. \\.. \\.. de !~1on­ stration--the n1en ans\vercd in choru:~ that it v.ras a trial ot the Pitkin n1cthod of n1otor facilitation. Friends of \\.alter '1'iedcn1ann 'I:~ will be pleased 1.0 h'arn of his recent 1narriag-e to ~1iss Edna .Kornfort of :\lbany. Ticden1ann is a n1c1nbcr of Phi C-an1n1a l)elta ancl an ex-Terrace Counciln1'U1. 1-lc is at present located in Cincinnati, 0. DO YOlJ BELIE-.;IE IN SIGNS? The Concordiensis di~clain1s anv resnon- - i. sihility for the \I)ri slo\v'' signs \Yhich decorated the can1pus iast vYeek. \::\ o horses allo\ved on this road,\ grectc;:. the eye as \\Te approach the library, .A.h;t. frcshn1en! at last the po\vers that be have disco\·ercd \Yhat you tuck under your arn1s as you approach the library. ;\ftcr this, do your o\vn translating-. ELECTIVE CO~/IPULSORY EXERCISE Princeton freshn1en are allo\ved a \vider choice than ever before in the spring sched- ule of con1pulsory exercise. Daily classes in s\vimn1ing, life-savingJ track, baseball. ro\\·ing, tennis, football, golf, and soccer have been organized under the auspices of the \·arsity coaches. This systen1, in \vhich every student takes son1e fon11 of exercise. is aln1ost an ideal one. Of course, it is pos- sible onlv because of the size of Princeton's athletic equipn1ent. TWO SEMESTERS. This year \VC begin the t\\'O sen1cster sys- tcn, ancl the olcl three tcrn1 svstcn1 is no n~orc. Final cxan1inations for the first :-:.e1nester \vill be~in Tanuarv \2() 1 ~)1 H, and < • - the sen1e...;t cr ,,.ill end Fe hruarv :-1. Cl asse:~ 111 the ~c<·ond ~enH'~ter 'sill begin February ~. n:gi...:tration being the daY prcv1ous. Subscribe to The Concordiensis ~ .. !' . ;:i J ,. .. ,,• 'JI - • ;;:,:.. ':./:. -:: ..... < r:r1 :-r, ~ ~ c.r; ':./:. I' \\\' ,... ;.;... - .......

John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. Our representative will display samples IN OLD GYM. THURSDAY, SEPT. 30, 1915. V\r e Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 1904 1910 WHITE, 229 State Street 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 EARNEST MANDEVILLE. '17 NEAR BARNEY'S Coli••• Repreeeotetive 1908 1914 1915 Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 ~so. CENTRE ST. \GOTHIC\ o. an ROW COLLAR FRONT FITS CRAVAT KNOT PERFECTLY. z lor 21e CLUETT, PEABODY & CO.,I•c •• MAK£118 Schenectady Taxicab Service Co. WHEN 'Phone 4489 IT RAINS IN A HURRY OUT FOR PLEASURE Call 4489 KILDER & HICKS JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the N arne Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street

.. \The Style Man.\ \He Who Creates-But Never Imitates\ College Clothes For Rah! Rah! Men Clothes with a certain: \Touch and Go\ that puts vim, vigor and courage to do and dare into the game of life. Thirty-Two Specialty Shops Under One Roof. \Specialized Service\ means multiplied satisfaction. This policy pre- , ... ails throughout the house of \Houghton.\ Aside from \Specialized Service,\ the one other dominant note of the \trhirty-two Shops\ is eternal newness. To show the things that are COM- ING, rather than the things that are GOING. To be a step ahead of the mode; to sho-vv the styles of to-morrow-rather than of yesterday. New Fall and Winter Suits, Haberdashery, Hats All \Houghton\ Creations-twenty-nine models, designed for YOU. Exclusive fabrics. DIFFERENT. $10 to $30 \MAKE THIS STORE YOUR STORE\ DU HTO 455 STATE STREET \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway\ Schenectady ~ Art Press

1·1 CJJfe CONCORDIENSIS :: VOLUME 39 NUMBER 2 UNION WINS OPENING CAME To Williams Saturday SEPTEMBER 30, 1915 PUBLISHED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF UNION UNIVERSITY

UNION UNIVERSITY CHARLES ALEXANDER RICHMOND, D. D., LL.D .. Chancellor UNION COLLEGE The college offers the following undergraduate and graduate courses: 1. Ceu:raea leading to the degree of ..&. B. CLASSICAL CoURSlt A.-Greek is required for ad- mission to this course. French and German are in- cluded in addition to the ancient languages. CLASSICAL CouRSE B.-Students may, at the close of the Sophomore year, elect to become candidates for the degree of A. B. They will then be required to study Greek for two years. Proficiency in Latin is prerequisite. s. Vourae leadln.r to the degree of Ph. B. LATIN-SCIENTIFIC CouRSE-This course offers Latin without Greek, for which is substituted addi- tional work in modern languages and science. a. Courae leading to the degree ot B. 8. ScntNTIFIC CouRsE- This course is based upon the 1tudy of mathematics and the sciences. 4. Courae leading to the degree of B. E. GENERAL ENGINEERING CouRSE- This course offers the foundation of a broad engineering education, comprising mathematics, the sciences, the funda- mental principles of the special branches of the prou fession and some training in history, economics and modern languages. SANITARY ENGINEERING CouRsE- This differs from the general engineering course in substituting special work in sanitary engineering for some of the general engineering studies. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CouRSE-This course is intended to give a broad and thorough engineering . education with the special instruction requisite for electrical engineering. 15. Vouraea leatllng to gradoate degreea. CouRSE LEADING TO DEGREE or M. C. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work L. V. Herrington Groceries, Tobacco, News, Confectionery Phone 2925- W CouRSE LEADING TO D£CR£lt oF M. S. E. E.- This course of one year of graduate study consists of lectures, laboratory practice and research work. CouRsE LEADING To DEGREE or Pu. D.-This course of two years of graduate study requires for admis- sion the degree of M. E. E. or an equivalent. For catalogues or other information address F. C. BARNES, Secretary, Schenectady, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE-Instruction by lectures, recitations, clinics, laboratory work, prac- tical demonstrations and operations. Hospital and laboratory advantages excellent Catalogues and circulars containing full informa- tion sent on application to: Wn,LIS G. TucKJtR, M. D., Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF LAW AMASA J. PARK£1t, J. NEWTON FIERO, President. Dean. ALBANY LAW SCHOOL-This department of the university is located at Albany, near the state capitol. It occupies a building wholly devoted to its use. The course leading to the degree of LL. B. is three years; each year is divided into two semesters. Expenses: Matriculation fee, $to; tuition fee, $no. For catalogue or other information, address: JoHN C. WATSON, Registrar, Albany, N. Y. DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY ALBANY COLLEGE OF PHARMACY-Graded course of instruction comprising two terms of seven months each. Fees, $90.00 per term. For catalogue giving full information, address: 43 Eagle St., Albany, N. Y. ALtRED B. H UESTED, Secretary, SUITS PRESSED 25o. DRY CLEANING AND PRESSING. Suits Called for and Delivered. 727 Nott Street Across from College Gate CHAS COOPER, No. 1 Landon Terrace Fink's Pharmacy The College Smoke and Drug Shop Just Across from the Green Gate ·.;·· •• I~· . ·~ ' ! ' ., ,,•' '' ;> ) '', ,, VOL. TJ Uni lJni< ander 0. In had tl~ quentl: touchd down' The by we; ball. ~ lJnion last se, \Vith r, substit line-up penalti first gc a more played many pen::1.lti, t• .. tne, th ed wer Fred mental: was lit little ta of insu hackfie little u could l

·.;·· ' ,, .,·' '' ;> ,.> ' ) '', ,, The Concordiensis VOL. 39 SEPTEMBER 30, 1915 NO.2 THE ST. LAWRENCE GAME. Union Wins First Contest of Season. lJ nion defeated St. Lawrence on Alex- ander Field last Saturday by a score of 6 to 0. In the second period after the Garnet had threatened St. Lawrence's goal fre- quently, ~1oynihan went over the line for a touchdown. The try for goal from touch- down \vas unsuccessful. The opening of the season was marked by weather a bit too warm for fast foot- ball. The team which started the game for lJnion \vas composed of only six veterans of last season, only four of whom had played w·ith regularity on the 'varsity. Frequent substitutions, however, finally gave the line-up a more fan1iliar look. A nun1ber of penalties marred an other\vise interesting first game. St. I~a wrence came down with a more experienced and stronger team than played here last year, and while Union lost many opportunities to advance through pen::1.lties and occasional \'\eakness in the 1' .. tne, the result and the \ray the team play- ed were encouraging. Fred Dawson's hard drill in the funda-- mentals was evidenced in the play. There ';as little fumbling on Union's part, and httle tackling round the neck or other signs of insufficient practice. A tendency of the ~ackfield to speed up ahead of the line, and a httle over-anxiety in starting with the ball could be noticed, but signs of that sort are reassuring rather than otherwise. St. Lawrence's game was marred by fumbling and weak defense. St. Lawrence won the toss and elected to receive the kick- off. Stoller opened the game by sending the pigskin hurtling to the five yard line at the west end of the field. Patterson drop- ped the runner. On the fourth down, J enk- ins blocked St. Lawrence's kick and the ball fell into the arn1s of a Canton player for a first do,vn. Union got the ball on the third do\'rn. Tubby Rosecrans was mainly re- sponsible for four successive first downs~ carrying the ball four times for good gains. An attempted forward pass went astray, but St. Lawrence could not advance and was forced to kick. Rosecrans received the ball in the center of the field just as the whistle ble'v to end the quarter. Gardner of St. La\'rrence and Captain Jenkins mingled in a little amorous duet shortly before the 'vhistle blew and were expelled from the garne by Referee Koult. Hay took J enk- ins's place. In the second period Union made first do\vn but was held. Stoller kicked to the up-staters' 15 yard line. St. La\vrence im- n1ediately returned the kick. Two succes- sive first downs put Union in position for ct drop-kick for goal, but Tubby's attempt was vvide. St. I.~awrence lost five yards in tvvo do\'rns and kicked to Rosecrans. On rrubby's return, he was knocked cold in be-

f t \ I l I 8 THE CONCORDIENSIS. ing tackled. Roof took his place and netted five yards on his first line buck. Moynihan made first down. Girling relieved Roof and gained five yards more. This put the ball in the shadow of St. Lawrence's goal and 1\foynihan went over behind fine inter- ence for the tirst score of the season. Girt- ing missed the .goal. Stoller kicked off and the whistle blew after Reynolds had re- turned the ball 15 yards. In the third period St. Lawrence was nev- er dangerous. Several spectacular end runs by Girting were offset by penal ties that oc- curred at the same time. In the fourth per- iod, Chilton, of St. La,vrence, played well and formed most of the up-staters' offence. Many substitutions occurred in the time and th.e teams battled evenly, though Union's potential offense seemed stronger that St. Lawrence's. UNION. ST. LAWRENCE. Left end. N otman ------------·------------ Hayden Left tackle I..,. ·Bowman ----------.---------- Scribner Left guard Gardner ------------------------- Gardner Center Bownman ----------------·------ Osgood Right guard DuBois ----------------·-------- Morgan Right tackle Jenkins ------------------------- Church Right end Avila ------------------------- Corcoran Quarterback Moynihan --------------·---------- Ford Left halfback Rosecrans --------------·-------- Darling Fullback Stoller ----------------·-------- Reynolds Right halfback Patterson --------------------·---- Noble Score by Periods : Union ------------------0 6 0 0-6 St. Lawrence -------·----0 0 0 0-0 ADVANCE DOPE FROM WILLIAMS. Williams started practice on September 13, about fifty men answering the call of Coach Daly. Several men were lost by graduation last year as a result of which practically a new backfield is in training. Jones is playing at quarter in place of De Windt who starred in that position last year. La Plante, last year's end, has been shifted to backfield and there are several new men on the line. Little can be judged of the team's strength since but one game has been played, at which time a number of second string men were tried out. Follow- ing is the probable line-up: B1odgett, r.e.; Brown, r.t.; Kieser, r.g.; Welch, c. ; Sawyer, l.g.; Garfield, l.t.; Hubbell, I.e.; La Plante, l.h.b.; Capt. Tomkins, f. b.; Overton, r.h.b.; Jones, q.b. THE INTERFRATERNITY CONFERENCE. The Interfraternity Conference of Union Col1ege was organized last fall in order to promote better feeling among the fraterni- ties over the matter of rushing freshmen. Gerrit V. Wood, Thomas A. Dent and Ern- est B. Houghton of the class of 1915 were the prime movers in the work. The follow- ing is the constitution adopted by the con- ference: CONSTITUTION OF THE INTER- FRATERNITY CONFERENCE OF UNION. COLLEGE. Article I. Name. The name of this organization shall be known as \'The Interfraternity Conference of Union College.\ Article II. Purpose. First, to promote the interest of Union College by promoting the interests of the several fraternities represented therein. Second, to promote better understanding between the fraternities represented therein. Third, to consider and act upon all ques- •i ' ' ' I'~ . ~;<;.'}! ,.:. tions v -tnutual sen ted 1. E not mo: there be ity shal the two see fit. 2. T ference tive at recess b the nex1 chosen sentativ 3. In . . . ,. or negle ~ ·x sti'tute 1 oi herein b i 4. U1 i ·! represen ' ~ ·. ·~ ;i has the · • < . l after gttl Regulc month; nated by Specia: Presiden· A. quot of all but ' ' .. ~ /1 The oi .~ - ,'; a Preside .;:\ >1 shall per ·i respective The of · ~ ballot, th~ •. ·: Secretary 5 cases elec 'The cot , lating thE • : :' n1 ent hers ·· sented in

','., ;,• . ' ,.~· THE CONCORDIENSIS 9 ,.:. . , . tions which are in any way related to the n.1utual welfare of the fraternities repre- sented therein. Article III. Representation. 1. Each represented fraternity shall have not more than one vote, and in no case shall there be any voting by proxy. Each fratern- ity shall' choose one member from either of the two upper classes in any manner it may see fit. 2. This member shall meet with the con- ference along with the present representa- tive at all meetings following the Easter recess but shall have no vote until the fall of the next college year. Provided a junior is chosen he shall become the senior repre- sentative during his senior year. 3. In case a representative leaves college or neglects his work in the conference a sub- . >i. sdtute may be appointed in his place as ··.·~ herein before provided. .;r ; 4. Upon admission to the conference each ~ · i representative becomes a life member and ·,; has the privilege of· attending any meetings after graduation without the power of vote. Article IV. Meetings. Regular meetings shall take place once a month; the time and place shall be desig- nated by the President. Special meetings may be called by the President at the request of three fraternities. A. quorum shaH consist of representatives of all but three fraternities in the conference. . Article V. Officers. . l ' .. ~ /1 The officers of the conference shall be . ~ a President and a Secretary-Treasurer, who shall perform the duties incident to their ···.·~ respective offices. ,-'1 The officers shall be chosen by popular :·~ ballot, the President to be a senior and the ·: Secretary- Treasurer a junior, and in all . ~ cases election shall be by majority vote. Article VI. By-Laws. · . 'The conference shall make by ... Jaws regu- : : lating the manner of pledging prospective · .. · 111 entbers of the several fraternities repre- .· ·\ sented in the conference, and any other by- laws which will 1neet the needs of the con- ference. All by-laws to the constitution shall be by unanimous vote of the conference. Article VII. Punishments. Infractions of this constitution or by-laws shall be punishable in any appropriate way, to he determined by the .conference. Article VIII. Expenses. The necessary expenses of the conference shall be defrayed from assessments levied equally upon the several fraternities by a vote of the conference. Article IX. The Secretary- Treasurer shall act as chairman pro tempore in case of the absence of the President. Article X. Powers. The conference shall have full powers to interpret, to enforce, and to administer the Interfraternity Rushing Agreement and all questions connected therewith. It shall also have power to deal with all other matters which may from time to time be referred to it. Article XI. Penalties. The Interfraternity Conference as herein after provided shall have powers to punish any fraternity violating any of the regula- tions of said conference; a vote of eight be- ing necessary to convict. The name of the offending fraternity, to- gether with the censure of the conference shall be published in the Concordiensis and the Union Alumni Monthly . If the conference shall deem tlie violation sufficiently flagrant, it may, by a special vote of eight, deprive the offending fratern- ity of membership in the Interfraternity Conference. Article XII. Amendments . This constitution may be amended at any time by a n1ajority vote of the fraternities represented in the conference; each fratern- ity shall be entitled to one vote as herein hefore provided.

\ !J I:· ! ! 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS Article XIII. The Interfraternity Conference shall have the power to recognize any organization or ne:vv· organization as its member. BY-LAWS. YahSo __ fi.Ube.Y m m m m m mmm mmm Rule 1. Every fraternity and the individ- ual metnbers of every fraternity are bound in honor to observe these rules in spirit as vvell as in letter, and to report at once any infractions thereof to the Interfraternity Conference. Rule 2. The Interfraternity Conference shall decide all interpretations of these rules and shaH have full oversight and supervision of their operation. __ Rule 3. No fraternity shall through any of its members, by any statement, allusion, or gesture, cast any slur upon the members, the position, or the spirit of any other fra- ternity in the conference in the presence of a new man, or a prospective member of Union College. Rule 4. No fraternity shall countenance any arrangement by which any other fratern- ity may be prevented from n1aking appoint- lnents with ne'v n1en by telephone, etc. Rule 5. A con1mi ttee of three shall be ap- pointed by the President of the Interfratern- ity Conference to distribute pamphlets of the Interfraternity by-laws to the freshmen upon 1·egistration day and this committee shall keep an accurate account of all students and sub-freshmen pledged during the year to any fraternity in the conference. The commit- tee shall choose one of its members to pre- sent and explain at a mass meeting of the freshmen after the first chapel service of the year. Rule 6. ~1\ny student who shall leave college after being pledged, but before being initiated, shall be automatically released from his pledge after an absence of six n1onths, and if he returns to college shall be open to invitations from any of the other fraternities in the conference. Rule 7. All pledged men shall wear but- tons. They shall be strictly honored by all fraternities, unless the pledging is pro- nounced irregular by the Interfraternity Conference. When a man accepts a pledge button outside of the neutral period, here- after specified, all dates with other fraterni- ties shall be automatically cancelled. Rule 8. All rushing laws take effect from the date of their passage until modified or revoked by the Interfraternity Conference according as they are heretofore provided for in the constitution. Rule 9. Any pledged man can withdraw from his pledge at the consent of the fratern- ity to which he is pledged and he shall then be eligible to membership in any other fraternity. Rule 10. If any fraternity withdraw their pledge from any student of sub-fresh- man ~hey must notify the Interfraternity Conference of the same immediately and give their reasons for the action as far as pos- sible, for the benefit of any other fraternity. UNION GRADUATE DRIVING FRENCH WAR AMBULANCE According to a letter received by a friend in this city, George Wadsworth, Union, 1914, of Buffalo, is now in France, where he is en- gaged in running one of the French war ambulances. After graduation Mr. Wads- worth accepted a position on the faculty of the English college in Beirut, Syria, where he remained until recently when the upris- ings in that place made it necessary for the school to close and foreigners to leave the city. He then went to France and decided to remain there as a chauffeur on one of the war ambulances. He is now in active am- bulance service in northern France some- where near the front, the exact location not being given because of the rigid censorship of the n1ails. He stated that he was near enough the front to hear the artillery firing and to see occasional German war aero- planes. I \:• ,,,·; ' .. ~ so Or class over featir thras scrap Thu about at Sto salt fc tom at< were c day m . 1ence , the ide them i break

'rHE CONCORDIENSIS 11 SOPHOMORE-FRESHMAN SCRAPS. On Friday, September 24, the illustrious class of 1918 demonstrated its superiority over the latest \wearers of the green\ by de- feating them even n1ore decisively than they thrashed the class of 1917 in last year's scraps. Thursday afternoon the Sophs captured about twenty-five frosh, who spent the night at Stop 12 .l\lbany road in a barn packing salt for the use of the Sophs in the salt- tomato fight. Still more first year men were carried off Thursday night and Fri- day morning. They had their first exper- ience with the \Honor System,\ and true to the ideals that their mothers had taught them in the old home town they refused to break their sacred oaths, though their fiery spirits chafed to enter the .conflict. Friday morning freshmen were scarcer than first grades from Dutchy Barnes, but an impetuous and enthusiastic group of jun- iors after scurrying about through fraternity houses and dormitories routed out a fair sized crew from beneath the bed clothes. They hired a moving van and started after the Sophs. There were many vigorous street :fights, notably one on Eastern Ave- nue, V\rhere Soph and Frosh rolled from gut- ter to gutter in n1ighty combat. Phil Dorion at the helm of \the slowest thing on four wheels,\ made many captures and barely escaped in a thrilling race with one of the \ubiquitous flivver\ type, filled with freshmen. At a few minutes before four o'clock amid \\Var hoops from the contestants, cheers from the large crowds that had gathered on the terrace, and music from Freihofer's band wagon, the sophomores and freshmen clash- ed in the salt-tomato scrap. Forty bushels of passe tomatoes n1et seventeen hundred carefully pac.ked bags of salt,-that is, they would have n1et if the sophs hadn't succeed- ed in destroying about twenty bushels of frosh ammunition. vVhen the approaching forces drew near enough they engaged in a desperate hand to hand battle. The judges awarded this scrap to 1918. Captain Jenks (not the man who ufeeds his horse on corn and beans\) then tossed up the baseball bat for the cane rush. Prexv Richmond has said that '~1919 enter~ \' college rather better prepared than 1918.~' Be that as it may, only one lone Frosh seemed interested enough to hang onto that \stick.\ The class of 1918 won the cane rush 14-l. Then came the wild scramble to the Idol and in this battle Sophs were again victor- ious. The Idol looks just as well painted green this year as red last year,-in fact a little better.

' ,, ·'· I I . ' \: I· \ ( ! I ; . ! I 'I I ' I 12 THE CONCORDIENSlS A Literary and News Weekly Published by THE STUDENTS OF UNION COLLEGE. EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ---------------- Richard E. Taylor, '16. ASSISTANT EDITOR -----..---------- Nathaniel A. Finch. '16 LITERARY EDITOR --·-------------- ·Avrom M. Jacobs, '16 ASS'T LITERARY EDITOR ---------- James B. Taylor, '16. STAFF ARTIST --· ----------------··----- Alwyn G. Levy, '18 .ASSOCIATE EDITORS: W. 1ti. Gilbert, '17; D. F. Chapman, '17; F. W. Porter, '17; H. R. Knight, '17; Rudolph W. Schwartz, '17. REPORTERS :F. G. Bascom, '18; E. M. Cameron, Jr., '18; W. G. Carey, '18; H. L. Cook, '18; S. B. Eddy, '18; J. E. Hulshizer, Jr., '18; E. L. Newell, '18; S. W. Talbot, '18; J. ]. Welch, Jr., '18. SECRETARY, F. W. Porter, '17. STAFF ARTIST, A. G. Levy, '18. BUSINESS MANAGER ------------------- Howard A. Glenn, Kappa Alpha Lodge ASSIST ANT BUSINESS MANAGER----Ernest W. Mandeville, Psi Upsilon House Entered at the Post Office at Schenectady, N. Y., as Second Class Matter . Publication Offke: Schenectady Art Press, 206 Center Street, Schenectady, N. Y. A WORD OF ADVICE TO 1919. We are glad to welcome the members of 1919 into our midst and as true hosts shall give them the best that we have to offer-some good, sound advice. Let us first remember that the transition from preparatory school to college is the longest step in a great selective process. Knowing this, we may readily infer that the college is made up largely of picked men. Our government, customs and institutions are the product of years' of experience and careful selection and are therefore dear to us because we know them to be right, hence for a titne we must urge our new friends and companions to submit to conditions as they find them here and to endeavor to see things from our viewpoint as soon as possible. Three years' of experience have served to con- Yince us that is it best to let President Richmond and the faculty run the college. We hope you will agree with us on this point. 'rhe honor system and Terrace Council we also believe to be institutions whose worth need not be questioned. Another itnportant fact to get clearly before our minds is the seriousness of col- lege work. It is no joke. We are here for real, genuine, hard work and whoever thinks other\vise, be he senior or freshman, 'vould do well to rid himself quickly of so dan- gerous a delusion lest his awakening prove a rude one. Properly spent, a man's four years in college should be the most enjoyable period of his life, but improperly, the reverse is equally as true. 'rhe only way to derive the proper kind of enjoyment from cne's college course is to keep a clean conscience in the matter of college work. This tneans to keep up your work perseveringly and systetnatically frotn day to day. Make ever yday count. Don't \Vaste a day, or an hour or a minute. If you purpose to ', ,'. . ' ,, .-_··~ .. • ; ~ ' { \·: gr< the to, tim be life . enJ Do of r the frie Ma' feat accc on t can pati~ . stng pou1 liam part: wre1 YOl U1 Eu~ gradu IS rep< to dis] was a hade< utatio

,: ·: '. :J THE CONCORDIENSIS 13 graduate at the end of the four years start into do so at t4e beginning. Prepare for the finals on the first day of the semester. Get behind and you're lost ,f The only way to do vour work is to DO IT! .. Lastly let us advise that you do not sever yourselves too completely from your old time moorings. The change to college is a radical one as we have said and one should be careful not to throw off too soon the old restraints that have thus far guided his life's course. Liberty is one thing and license another and the rights that a man may enjoy are usually commensurate with the responsibilities that he is willing to assume. Do not consider that the release from restraint is necessarily a release from the need of restraint. Your duties to yourselves and to the world at large are rather increased by the greater opportunities which are laid before you. You are to become leaders of men and must train ourselves to be such. Let your own intelligence and conscience. be your severest critics. Freshmen, you are already Union men and we welcome you as brothers and friends. Our good will is with you. Whatever we have to offer is at your service .. May success attend you! FOOTBALL AND CHEERING. \vVeJl begun is half done.\ Don't you believe it. We made a good beginning by de- feating St. Lawrence six to nothing, but the seven hardest games still lie before us. We accomplished what we did Saturday because we have a lot of men who can be relied on to put up a good, stiff fight; a captain to lead them and a coach to train them. We can rely on the men to fight on, the captain to lead on and the coach to train on patiently and consistently, but if the student body does not put a better lot of cheering and singing, we deserve to be beaten and beaten badly until we get a little college spirit pounded into us. Next Saturday comes the hard game of the season; Williams at Wil- liamstown. The team will be ready for it. Will you? The absence of freshman bibles partly excuses the singing but the absence of college spirit is the only cause of the wretched cheering. If the team duplicates last year's record with a clean slate YOU'VE GOT TO HELP. W:tke up! UNION GRADUATE REPORTED KILLED. Eugene A. H. Tays of San Bias, Mexico, a graduate of Union Colege in the class of '84, is reported slain by Yaqui Indians, according to dispatches received from there. Mr. Tays was a distinguished mining engineer and _ had earned for himself an international rep- utation. He had visited this city several ti1nes since his college days and was known as one of Union's most loyal alumni. Mr. Tays' wife is a Mexican and their eight children have been educated in Atnerican colleges. Several of his daughters are now living in the United States. He was born in West Point in 1861 and went to Mexico after doing considerable railroad 'vork in Texas. He had written many books on the subject of mining engineering.

14 THE CONCORDIENSIS Governor Whitntan, William Jennings Bryan and Henry Ford will not speak or be present at the campus meeting at the Union College Gymnasium on Friday evening at seven o'clock-BUT- \i\7e think Prexy Richmond will be there and we knoV\r Pete Starbuck, the doughty cap- tain of the unscored upon eleven of last year, will speak. Also Steve Storey will talk upon a subject related in no way to the Y. M. C. A. Charlie Waldron and other silver ton- gued speakers will tell us some things. EVERYBODY OUT. SHOW WILLIAMS. Next to Union, Williams is about the best little institution of higher education in this part of the country. ).\Tilliams has a good football team-so have we. Also, there is a rumor that the young men in Williamstown know how to instill spirit into their teams by means of a catalog of assorted yell. We have a pretty good assortment of cheers too. That brings us to the point. 1'here are going to be tV\lO battles fought on the Williams football field Saturday. ()ne is just about as i1nportant as the other '.vhen we consider our nan1e as a LIVE college. \Vhile Captain Jenks and his ten huskies are putting everything they have into that gan1e, vve on the bleachers are going to put everything we have into the cheering. Not only in football but in cheering we are going to \'show Williams.\ Over one hundred students in chapel Mon- day s1gnified their intention of making the \Villiams trip. VVe vvant ·fifty more men to he among those present. 'I'hat Garnet tean1 needs ev~ry man who can possibly make the trip--needs hin1 there on the W\illiams field Saturday. Remember what Fred Daw- son said in college n1eeting. \Each one of you must back that team, win or lose, to the very last.'' ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE WILLIAMS TRIP. Special cars leave Payne gate for Scotia 12 :00 o'clock. Train leaves Scotia on B. & 1\1. 12 :29 o'clock. Arrives Williamstown 2 :12 o'clock. Train leaves Williamstown for Albany 5:53 o'clock. Arrives Albany ~· :25 o'clock. Later train leaves Williams- town 9:20 o'clock. Arrives Albany 11 :2tj o'clock. Manager Brunet tickets to the game Admission, 50c. will have admission on sale on the train. RECENT UNION GRADUATE TAKES CHEMISTRY CHAIR AT PENN- SYLVANIA COLLEGE. William A. Mudge, Union, 1914, son of Mr. and. Mrs. W. H. Mudge, of Liberty Street, has accepted the position as head of the chetnistry department at _Albright Col- lege. ~1yerstown, Pa. After graduating at Union, Mr. l\Iudge went to Columbia for graduate work in chemistry, earning his master's degree in science in June. Later he went with the General Chemical Com- pany and recently gave up his position with that company to accept the chair of chemis- try at Albright. He assumed his duties about the middle of September. Mr. Mudge \vas an honor man in his class at Union and a member of the Sign1a Xi honorary societj. He vvas also affiliated vvi th several college organizations. REMEMBER to save all your grafonola contest tickets. Co-operation wil leasily enable use to get a tnachine for Silliman Hall. Frid corned ceptio1 vvere l fessor R. Goc Churcl Jenkin baseba countr . college Con cor er Ol Steve After 1 ductior , and so1 '~;·/, ·,' ,. : .. s As i~ \ speaker held in ... the rel' . ·~ \ ; .:·1 ·.; tirely e life is This id life. SCHEl Dr. Ed, Wor~ try, s parisc Whic: vestig \The .. ,. only em ·' the larg · < is far a] . ·,l especial] Dr. Edv .~·.~ try depa · ·· ·,;• city che

THE CONCORDIENSIS 15 FRESHMAN RECEPTION. Friday night the college Y. M. C. A. wel- comed the class of 1919 with a student re- ception in Silliman Hall. The speakers w·ere President Charles A. Richmond, Pro- fessor John I. .Bennett and Rev. Thomas R. Good, pastor of the Union Presbyterian Church. Short talks were given by Carl Jenkins on football, Horace Zimmer on baseball and basketball, Newton on cross- country, Gunning on the band, Danner on college spirit, A1len on Glee Club, Taylor on Concordiensis, Jacobs on debating, Sol- er on Press Club and Embree and Steve Story on Y. 1\tL C. A. work. After the talks came a general intro- duction of the freshmen to upper classmen . :\ ·} and sophomores, followed by refreshments. ':'?' SUNDAY VESPER SERVICE. . As is customary, Dr. Richmond was the .. speaker at the first college vesper services held in the chapel Sunday. He considered the relation with our fellow men to be en- ... . ·~ \ ; .:·1 .· ·.; tirely essential to our success-that no one life is wholly complete without others. This idea is peculiarly applicable in college life. SCHENECTADY'S HEALTH METHODS WIN HIGH PRAISE. Dr. Edward Ellery After Extensive Study of Work in Many of Largest Cities in Coun- try, Says This City Stands High in Com- parison-Also Visits Several Universities Which Rank With Those of Europe-In- vestigates Commission Government. \The health office of Schenectady is not .. ,. only employing up-to-date methods such as ·' the largest cities of the country employ, but · < is far ahead of n1any cities in its methods, .·.~ especially in its work of tnilk control,\ said . ; Dr. Edward E. Ellery, head of the chemis- ·~·· t:y department at Union College and former .· ·,;• ctty chemist, who returned Saturday with Mrs. Ellery from a year of travel and study in different parts of the country. \Schenec- tady does not suffer by ,comparison with other cities of its size. Its sewage and garb- age disposal plants are well kno,vn in many cities where they have attracted wide atten- tion, and our water supply is the proper sub- ject of envy on the part o£ other cities,\ he said in a short interview last nig-ht. . Dr. Ellery has spent his sebatical year in study in many of the largest cities of the country and has had two objects in view, namely, to investigate and study the public health work in the large western cities-the \Vater works of those cities, the n1ilk supply and the sewage and garbage disposal sys- tems-and to get as con1plete a view as pos- sible of the American universitv. \ Although Dr. Ellery's interest in the i\mer1 can universities has been principally in the chemistry department, he has also studied the organization and all departments of n1any of the largest schools of the country. Fie believes the American university has pre- served the old learning of Europe and that if the European universities do remain closed to the An1erican students after the war, the country will not suffer. He said that he has n1et many bright and profound men in con- nection vvith the American universities, men fully as bright and profound as those of many of European universities which he has visited. In connection with his studv of the work -' of the health departments of the different cities, Dr. Ellery also gave some attention to the different forms of municipal government. In C·alveston he carefully studied the com- mission forn1 and has many interesting con- clusions fron1 his study there. Some of the principal cities visited by Dr. and Mrs. Ellery vvere Cleveland, which iq nov; completing a large water filtration plant; Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Chicago, St. I~ouis, Houston, Galveston, El Paso, Los i\n- geles, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle,

16 THE CONCORDIENSlS Spokane, Salt Lake City, Denver and Omaha. . A.mong the universities visited were Chicago University, 'rulane, Leland Stanford, Jr., University of California, University of Ore- gon, Washington, and the University of Nebraska. Don't delay to subscribe for the Con- cordy. STUDENTS ELECT NEW MEMBERS TO ATHLETIC BOARD. At the first college meeting of the year Philip T. Hill of the class of 1912 was elect- ed a member of the Athletic Board. \Pete\ is one of the younger and most active alumni a.nd we are sure he will lend his best efforts to the interest of Union College and Union College athletics. BATTLE HYMN OF THE COPY DESK Cospuez, Constantinople, And a bas, Armentieres, Raus mit 'em. Von Bethmann-Hellweg, Kick the alphabet downstairs. Austrians licked at Monfalcone, Russian names as sound like a sneeze, Are there no short words for headlines \In such blarsted days as these? BUT Happy times some with the sad times, Headline writers cease to rail \Vhen And Villa Fights At Leon Taft Speaks At Yale -Philadelphia Public Ledger. THE BLISSFUL DAYS. It was the glorious summer, but it was windy and dusty, and the dust beat merci- lessly into their faces as the young man and tnaiden turned the corner of the street. \Did you get any in your eyes, darling?\ he asked, fondly, drawing her closely to him . ''Yes, sweetheart,\ she murmured, search .... ing for her elusive handkerchief. \'Which eye, beloved?\ he pressed. \'The right one, love! Did you get any in yours?\ \Yes dear heart!\ he responded, using the same corner of the handkerchief that she had used. \How sweet!\ she exclaimed. \And yours was in the right eye, too ?\ \Ah !\ she thrilled. \Do you suppose it could have been part of the same piece of dust that got in our eyes?\ \I hope it was l\ he exclaimed fervently, blinking a pleasurable beam with his good eye. \Wouldn't it be lovely, love?\ she cried. \Oh love, wouldn't it?\ he wriggled. And the wind howled as though in pain .. and front the house opposite a \Votes for \\romen\ board fell with a sickening crash upon the pavement.-Philadelphia Public I~edger. A MISTAKE SOMEWHERE. \Y aas,\ said Uncle Silas, \my son Bill hez got back from a special course he's been a-takin' at college, with a piece o' paper signed by th' 'thorities sayin' as how he's an A. M. I dunno what an A. M. is, but I'n1 afeard they's some mistake about it, for judgin' from the time he gits down to break- fast he behaves more like a P. M. to me.\- N ew York Times. \If you don't know the words of the songs, hum them.\-· Tris Coffin. First Stewed Student (climbing into bed) ''Whasch tshe time, old fello\v ?\ Second Stewed Student: \One o'clock\ (clock strikes four). F. S. S.: \Shay but schat clock stutters.'' '' -. {~ ,',;, .( '· - ( I - J A. High GI 52 STA1 H Stricti, s ( Schenec

When JOU want anything at QUINN'S Schenectady's Greatest Drug Store Just Telephone 1285 Quinn Delivers Free With Hasty Messengers UJ~r Nrw llrnbnmr The Place for Banquets The \Homey\ Hotel Cor. State and Center. A. G. SPALDING & BROS. Manufacturers of High Grade Implements and Clothing for all Athletic Sports and Pastimes. Write for a Catalogue. 52 STATE STREET, ALBANY, N.Y. Hats that \Nox 'Em\ All King's Hats Strictly Union Made at Popular Prices $1.50 and $2 Stores in all principal cities. 409 State Street (Orpheum Theatre Bldg.) Schenectady, New York Steefel Broa. ALBANY, N.Y. Your character is yourself. Irt is . born with you and clings to you un- changed all through your life. It is the character in a Steefel Style \vhich makes men purchase these ex- cellent clothes season after season. Rig·ht now we are presenting the new cold weather styles. JOE. NUSBAUM Schenectady's Leading HATTER AND HABERDASHER 336 STATE STREET. Leaders of the World HA.NAN STETSON SUREFIT HEYWOOD DOUGLASS ts.oo TO 18.00.-- A PAIR All ftve •tandard makea, 11014 at Patton&Hall Below the Brlqe.

a John L. Manny & Bro. LEADING TAILORS OF EASTERN NEW YORK. Our representative, AI. M. Clark, will display goods in the Old Gym, Thursday, October 7th. We Display 500 Styles of English and Scotch Woolens. 38 THIRD STREET, TROY, N. Y. 100 References from Prominent Citizens of Schenectady. \The College Photographer\ GARNET 1903 1909 WHITE, 229 State Street 1904 1910 1905 1911 1906 1012 1907 1913 EARNEST MANDEVILLE, '17 NEAR BARNEY'S Colleate Reopreoeentgtive 1908 1914 191S Bellinger Paint Co. PAINTS, OILS Dealers in all Kinds of Wax Polishes 212 SO. CENTRE ST. NoRMAN -the new ARROW COLLAR.c \ '.1, JOll' ~~ Ouett,Peahody &Co. Inc. 'Maker~ CLEANLINESS lends you an additional charm. It is al- ways an indicator of refinement. Our prices make cleaning a necessity, not a luxury. We clean everything that needs clean- ing-all high-grade work guaranteed at very reasonable prices. We call for and deliver. Sanitary Gleaning Co. 'Phone 1909-J 440 State Street JUST WRIGHT SHOES For Particular Men- $4.50 and up Real Value and Style are assured by the Name Geissler & Ryan 173 Jay Street

\The Style Man.\ Between Us Men You can't fool the college man on clothes. He sees through the sham with the eyes of a man-eyes that are critically cautious and true. His well dressed college and club friends act as a stimulant to his pride and maintain that self respect which good clothes sustain. Out of the entire list of our permanent customers the proportion of college men who buy their clothing here is extremely large. And it constantly in- creases. Between these men and ourselves there's a bond of friendship which grows stronger right along. As one college man said to others recently: \I PAY A FAIR PRICE FOR MY CLOTHES AND GET A SUARE DEAL.\ 1'Iodels created and fabrics selected for the young men who want the different kind. Everything now on display in Fall and Winter Clothing, Haberdashery and Hats. PRICES $10 to $30 YeMen's Shoppe HTD 455 STATE STREET \The Store of Today-Four Hours From Broadway\ Schenectady ~ Art Press t. ' i I, i ' f ,-,····

